

The House of Seppelt. .. producers of
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3520
Wednesday, July 30, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HISTORIC BIRR CASTLE IS IN KING’S COUNTY, IRELAND
DIRR derives its name from Biorra, an ancient abbey founded
by St. Brendan. A great battle was fought there in the third
century between Cormac, son of Con of the Hundred Battles, and
the people of Munster. The district originally formed a part of
Ely O’Carroll, and the castle was the seat of the O’Carroll chief-
tains. It was granted by King Henry II to Philip de Worcester,
but its owners defended their territory so persistently that it
frequently alternated between its English and Irish masters. It
was not included in King’s County until the reign of James I.
That monarch assigned it to Lawrence Parsons, brother of Sir
William Parsons, one-time surgeon-general. Cromwell attacked
Birr, and his son-in-law Ireton took it in 1650, and it was again
besieged m the Jacobite war of 1688-90. Birr has been noted as
the residence of the Earl of Ross—descendant of the Parsons-
famed for his astronomical pursuits and his great reflecting
telescope. One of Ireland’s most interesting castles, Birr is steeped
in romantic and historic associations.


(i*i
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, withovt obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
Mg Address
g.B. 247 .AGE
The Red Page
COMPLETING THE CIRCLE.
British Art (Collins ; Angus and Robert-
son), edited by William Gaunt, contains
a. very significant portent. Among the
selected representative paintings there are
one by Frith and another by Landseer.
The significance of their inclusion is
that Gaunt is the soundest critic of
established values in art at present func-
tioning in England. Or anywhere else,
for that matter. Added to that, he is
a subtle psychologist, he has a practised
ability to recreate the personalities of
artists, he has wit, and he writes in a*
fascinating prose style. His judgment
in recasting controversial valuations and
devaluations in past critical opinion on
art is never at fault
In the Impressionist revolt of the
’seventies and ’eighties, the two most
execrated painters of established reputa-
tion were Frith and Landseer, That they
were also the most highly paid painters
of their era had a good deal to do with
the studio world’s fury at their works.
.Esthetics are not exempt from the Com-
munistic passion to cut throats. Whistler’s
jeer of “He must have tossed up,” at
Frith’s artless confession in the witness
box. that it was a toss-up whether he be-
came an artist or an auctioneer, was con-
sidered to have annihilated Frith. Possibly
it did, as far as contemporary opinion
was concerned. When a state of mind is
in flux, slogans are snatched at to reassure
a wavering point of view. We may take
it that Frith and Landseer represented in
painting the breaking point of a revolt
against the whole tradition of which they
were the salient examples.
All revolts complete a circle and come
back to the point from which they
started, whether their objective be aesthetic
or political. The French Revolution
smashed a monarchy to restore a mon-
archy ; the Russian Revolution has
merely bridged one autocracy with
another. And the Impressionist revolt
from a classic tradition must return to
a classic tradition. It has nowhere else
to go, since it cannot go on screaming
the slogans of revolt when that revolt
appears to have achieved its objective.
And since what we call a classic tradition
in the arts is the accepted standard of all
great achievement in the past, that
standard must be maintained, or else the
earth must revert to barbarism.
The standard must be maintained—but
that does not mean that artists must
merely imitate or repeat the great paint-
ings of the past. A revolt, by experi-
menting with technique, very often
throws up new material which is of
value when added to a continuation of
the classic tradition. In itself, that
material is very often crudely handled,
and its examples remain as a minor
achievement in art. It is the overvaluing
of these examples because of their value
as experiment that causes such a con-
fusion in the world of aesthetics; a con-
fusion which today has arrived at chaos,
because the Impressionistic revolt has
petered out into chaos too.
For Post-Impressionism, with all the
lunacies that have attended it, is not a
new movement in art, but the dead end
of an old one. Moreover, it has become
so involved with a universal state of
cataclysm both as cause and effect that
it can no longer be reviewed under the
innocent heading of aesthetics. A critic
who goes looking for values in this dying
revolt may just as well grope blindfold
at the first example that comes to hand.
The exponents of modernistic expression-
ism cannftt even state their own values.
All they can do is hurl at a sceptical
demand for those values the desperate
outcry of any other religious fanatic, “A
divine light has been given to me which
you lack.”
The critic who tackles the analysis of
this bedlanj will have an outsize job on
his hands. He will have to probe into
the dark Freudian underworld to expose
the selfl-annihilative urge in mankind,
much more potent than the urge towards
self-creation. He must make an exhaus-
tive study of mob psychology, given this
stark evidence that seemingly intelligent
individual minds may be swept off their
balance by an uprush of primitive
hysteria, which sought to destroy all
values in life and art. He will have to
face the unquestionable truth that man-
kind in the mass is balanced on a knife-
edge between outright barbarism and the
feeble control of an acquired civilised
consciousness. He must accept the evi-
dence before him that the deepest urge
in the mass of mankind is to throw up
the struggle to acquire a civilised con-
sciousness, and to revert finally to the
barbarism from which it has emerged.
In this respect, man is no different from
any other earth organism, animal or
vegetable. Without an incessant atten-
tion to its culture, the rose reverts to
the briar and the horse to the brumby.
And the culture which enforced a civilised
consciousness on man we label Art, For
that reason, art can also destroy the con-
sciousness it has created.
At that crisis the world of aesthetics
stands today. But there is plenty of
evidence that art is moving towards a
stable standard of values. Poetry has
already done so. Prose is changing from
the crude outline-writing and is returning
to a richer cadence. Today, everybody
interested in the novel as a form of art
is reading Trollope. And Trollope is in
prose precisely what Frith is in painting.
There are signs of a return to sanity
even in the studio world of plastic art,
and the best evidence of that is that
Renoir is at the present moment accepted
as its supreme master of painting.
Which makes it very clear that a re-
valuing of the whole Impressionist move-
ment is badly needed. The individuals
who formed it\ have been lumped to-
gether in the most indiscriminate way as
masters of its plastic evangel, whereas
Degas and Manet are the only two
painters of high quality who belonged
to it, and they, possibly, would have
been better out of it Manet, at his best,
did some fine work, but Renoir, Sisley,
Pissarro and the rest are very mediocre
painters. We know that Degas had very
little use for the mob he was mixed up
with perforce, since he could not stand
the academic painters of the day. Of
Renoir he said, “He’s a very nice fellow
—tell him not to paint.” Of Cezanne,
“He paints with cotton-wool.”
We may ask a question here. Were the
critics who attacked the first Impressionist
works so far wrong after all? Wrong,
if you demand that they should have had
the prophetic insight to guess what value
the spectrum analysis of light might be
in the future to landscape painting, but
not so very wrong in their estimate of
the works themselves. I think that point
needs to, be examined with the clarity
with which Gaunt analyses Ruskin’s
attack on Impressionism in England,
Those original critics of Impressionism
have been so lambasted by later critics
of the movement that the critics of Post-
Impression have seldom dared do any-
thing but praise. They were not going
to be caught a second time. Personally,
I haven’t any doubt that the future
analysis of Post-Impressionism will laugh
at those critics as nitwits for their indis-
criminate praise of the movement in pre-
cisely the same terms that a previous
generation of critics was scorned for
attacking its genesis.
We know, of course, that the real value
of the Impressionist movement was its
contribution to landscape painting by
the spectrum analysis of light, though its
experiment of dividing light rays into
alternate streaks or daubs of color fre-
quently arrived at the effect of wool-
work. In order to get that far the Im-
pressionists had to discard any effort to
master a controlled impasto, the effect of
which today is the infantile brushwork
of the modernist painter. Nevertheless,
if the modernist studio world has got as
far as accepting Renoir as a master, it
may possibly climb slowly back to Degas
and Manet, and from them to the classic
tradition from which both derived, carry-
ing with it the values gained by the Im-
pressionist analysis of light, where that
broke tradition from Courbet, Corot, and
the Barbazon School generally. For that
group of painters, fine as much of their
work is, did lack color values in light,
and very frequently painted monotone.
In this country we have seen the work
of Gruncr, which derives from Corot,
carry the spectrum analysis of light to its
radiation as a permeation of matter. His
trees against light flame with light. And
this he has achieved with an exquisite
control of impasto; a stylism in brush-
work which is a delight to study. But
Gruner’s contribution to the world’s
great art has yet to be acknowledged.
Time will do that infallibly.
If this revaluation of the whole out-
look on art since the Impressionist move-
ment is to be made, as made it must be,
the man who attempts it must have high
moral courage as well as the critical in-
sight to give a balanced judgment. It
takes a good deal of nerve to say “Rot,”
in the face of contemporary opinion,
however fatuous that may be.
I recall a visit Bill Dyson and myself
made to an accredited connoisseur of the
arts in Florence, away back in 1911. He
was a Count Something-or-other and we
had a letter of introduction to him. His
palatial apartments were crowded with
an insensate jumble of virtuosities, from
medieval altar pieces to Chinese por-
celain. We arrived just as he and a group
of his kind were chanting ecstasies over
a number of Cezanne canvases, which
was the first time we had seen originals
by that dull-witted peasant painter. In-
vited to admire them, we both feebly
endorsed the transcendent qualities the
virtuosos were claiming to see in them,
and were glad to get safely back into
the street again. There Bill said to me,
“Did you really mean what you said
about those blasted daubs?”
“No. I thought they were lousy.”
“Why the hell didn’t you say so?”
“Why the hell didn’t you?”
We were left wrangling over a con-
sciousness of debilitated self-esteem, but
at least we were at that time innocents
about to wander into an inferno of
primitive art that was to engulf the whole
studio world. We saw the first Post-
Impressionist exhibition that year in
London . . .
After reading Gaunt’s The /Esthetic
Adventure, it seemed clear to me that an
avatar had at last arrived with the power
and insight to introduce sanity into the
bedlamite chaos of critical values. But
after reading his brief survey of con-
temporary art in British Painting, I am
left with an uneasy suspicion that either
his judgment or his courage falters at
tackling that job with integrity.
He claims that the Post-Impressionist
movement has had a stimulating effect on
British painting, but the evidence is
against this assumption. England had
in Orpen,* John, Nicholson, Pryde and
other members of their group a splended
school of painting up to the arrival of
Post-Impressionism. Orpen, the biggest
figure of the lot, started to go wrong at
the very point where the modernist attack
began. His big period stops at 1913.
John has always been a hit-or-miss
painter, turning out an admirable canvas
at one effort and a muddled experiment
the next. Gaunt brings up a considerable
list of names to support his contention,
but of their works one can only say that
there is a great deal of experimental
interest that may be of value to the
future, when a painter arrives with the
power to use what the experimenters can
only muddle abqut with. The two
examples he reproduces of modernist art
by Paul Nash and Matthew Smith carry
no conviction. They might have been
picked at random from any modernist
studio anywhere in the world today.
Moreover, Gaunt refers to “the strange
genius of Picasso” . . .
That won’t do. Unless Picasso is seen
for what he really is, and that is the
clinical evidence that the mass mind is
almost a formless void, in which float
the disjecta membra of a million bad
photographs, any effort to place his sig-
nificance in the Primitive madhouse is
valueless. Picasso has a genuine value,
based in horror, a horror of the abyss
from which man in the mass has emerged,
and to which he must revert, unless ha
can find some means of consolidating
the content of his ego. I cannot believe
that Gaunt, with his fine, disciplined
mind, accepts the studio world valuation
of Picasso. To call him a “strange
genius” is to evade saying anything about
him.
But it is a senseless job looking for
values where modernist masters are two
a penny.
Once again, the whole modernist move-
ment in paint is the dead end of Im-
pressionism, emanating from a dying
people. France had just enough moral
energy left to fight through the 1914 war,
but that effort finished her. She was
beginning to die before it, as the arrival
of Post-Impressionism in 1911 proves.
Like all dying organisms, she spread the
infection of her disease through Europe,
in a deliberate throwing over of all
critical values of art and the acceptance
of life as a bad joke for the entertain-
ment of bored intellectuals. That the Jew
art dealers were smart enough to capita-
lise this state of moral debility was mere
mechanism. The Jew has no conscience
over the commodities he sells. If the
buyer is fool enough to be taken in by
rubbish so much the better. There is an
illimitable supply of rubbish to be had,
while the market for high-quality works
of art is extremely limited. It is a pleas-
ing nemesis on both buyer and seller in
the modernist art world that any studio
dauber can forge examples of its
“masters” by the thousand. And the
masters themselves can’t tell which is
which. Imbecility in virtuosity can hardly
go further.
Possibly Gaunt is too close to contem-
porary art for a ruthless valuation of it,
determining what may be useful in it
while its mass production goes to Apollo’s
rubbish-tip. Possibly he has allowed its
slogans to confuse him, or to bludgeon
him into reticence. Certainly, Blooms-
bury’s intelligentsia would be after his
blood if he said what he really thinks
about its exhibits. But at least he b
done a fine service in restoring the Pre-
Raphaelite movement to its place ij
the classic tradition of art, and in placfc
a proper valuation on the revolt of L
pressionism in England headed h
Whistler ; and by a subtle and iron,
analysis of the personalities of iha
period he has conveyed a critical esti-
mate of their works.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Post-mortem on Hitler.
From a study of captured documents
and from interviews with all the senior
German officers after the surrender-
which was his task as Intelligence
Officer at First Canadian Army Head-
quarters—Major Milton Shulman has
compiled Defeat in the West (Seeker and
Warburg). The book amounts to a post-
mortem on Hitler;
There is only one place to lay the wreath
of German defeat —at the fateful but clumsy
feet of Adolf Hitler Especially after he 1
assumed the post of Commander-in-Chief |
in the field, as well as Head of the State, I
he effectually ruined whatever chances Ger-
many had of winning the war.
From broad sweeping decisions involving
major strategy, Hitler was soon delving
into detailed tactical matters which con-
cerned relatively minor formations and
unimportant sectors By the time the
Allies were ready to invade the Continent
every senior German officer was so ham-
strung with restrictions and threats from
Berlin that initiative could only be exer-
cised on the very lowest levels.
In January, 1940, a major of the
Luftwaffe, flying with detailed plans for
invasion of the Low Countries, forced-
landed in Belgium during a fog and the
plans were captured. Hitler, in conse-
quence, ordered that in no circum-
stances was any commander to be in-
formed of any operation which did not
immediately concern him.
The seed of distrust in the Genera!
Staff was thus well planted. In fateful
later days division and even army staffs
were kept in the dark about intended
operations until the last moment.
German military intelligence was
strangely bad and mishandled, and
seems to have been demoralised by sheer
congestion of reports until the volume
of them defied proper sifting. The Ger-
man Command proved to be wrongly in-
formed at every important turn of the
war. Incredible as it seems, German
intelligence reported that the invasion
attempt projected in 1940, for which 26
divisions were to be used, would have to
meet 39 British divisions, 17 on the coast
and 22 in the London area; and the;
quailed before these figures. In truth, the
British army could have mustered at the
time no more than two or three equipped
divisions to resist invasion. Rundstedi
too, believed the invasion plan was “non-
sense” because he had not enough ship
and barges.
Major Shulman lists Hitler’s grace
mistakes as:—-
The failure to destroy the British army
at Dunkirk.
The failure to invade England
His decision to attack Russia.
His rejection of Goring’s plan for seizing
the Mediterranean in 1941 by taking
Gibraltar at one end, the Dardanelles at
the other, and then moving through North
Africa and Turkey upon Suez.
The decision to bring America into the
war by encouraging the Japanese to attack.
And, lastly, the extraordinary indiffer-
ence with which the German High Com-
mahd received Rommel’s urgent appeals for
reinforcements to enable him to reach Suez <
from El Alamein.
With the Allied invasion of Normand
in 1944 the disaffection between Hitk
and his generals reached a crisis. ;
appears that most of them expected tb
landing to come in the -Pas de Calais
Hitler at the last moment (May) favors
Normandy. Yet after his post-bet prove?
right and the Allied beachhead in No'-
mandy became so strong that this lane
ing was clearly the main one, Hit!-'
decided it was a feint to cover a secofc
landing near Calais and refused to alio 5
troops to be moved to help Rommt
Then came the plot of July 20 again?
Hitler’s life. It failed chiefly throuf
faintheartedness in one plotter and ;
sense of caution in another, a junior com-
mander in Berlin. For the rest of t- :
war more than one general continued ■
serve under suspicion. Rommel did fl c '
die of his fractured skull when £
aeroplane bomb wrecked his car <■]
a French road. He was convalescent &
his home near Ulm when two genera;-
of the army personnel bureau visits
him, took him away in a car, and v#
travelling, offered him the choice o
death by poison or a public trial on
charge of having had a share in the pl°-
He took the pill handed to him tbs
and there, died in fhree seconds, a*
was taken to hospital as having had
brain stroke.
Major Shulman has had access to son?
of the documents that show how
deliberately planned the war in $
with the full knowledge of the Gene'-
Staff, and he brings other evidence to »
out a clear and informative story.


m
■
SPECIE
ARCH BRACE
(Above)
Dr. Reed’s NuMatic Shoes
for Comfort
Made in Tan or Black Calf, these
shoes are fitted with a special
Arch Brace and Heel Cushion to
give perfect comfort. Available
in Medium, Wide and Extra
Wide fittings. Full and half
sizes. Price .... 37/-
wm
m
w. \
P\
\y j
w
' I
* 'jsm
rt
I
✓
i*
w. cC— IV/'rf.
•VI _ \\\ «
(cAbove)
Men’s Super Grade Golf Shoes built on a good
fitting last and available in full and half sizes.
They feature Non-Slip Rubber Sole%and are priced
at 36/3
V
k
V
\
Hi
*
hi
v
Tv \
\
GROUND FLOOR CIOROI ST
(Left)
Men’s High-Grade Shoes made in Tan Calf,
Black Box Calf and Glace Kid . . . medium
and wide fittings, full and half sizes, featuring
genuine welted soles. Tan and Black Calf.
Price 29/6
Black Glace Kid. Price 30/9
mm
m
%w.
:
m
v
m
■■■ ■■■
9
m
(Xtght)
Solidly constructed Men’s Tan and Black
Grecian Slippers for fireside comfort, in
Grained Leather, featuring sewn soles, avail-
able in full and half sizes. Price 20/3
Shoes for men, of balanced construction and
solid good looks . . . available in Tan Calf
an<4 Black Box Calf, with genuine welted soles,
full and half sizes, medium or wide fittings.
Price 31/10
(“Right)
Lasting comfort is found in these Men’s Black
and Tan Military Cossack Boots . . . extra
stout sewn and standard screwed soles, full sizes
only, 5 to 10. Price 23/6
4
Ll
h
Antnonu
HIJ
orderns’
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
ill
MAIL YOUR ORDER to The Senior Store to-day for the shoes of
your choice. Your order will he given every care and atten-
tion, so you can mail your order with confidence to-dayl


Blue Gillettes
tire tempered
elec tricully I
dsf
Made of the finest steel man can forge, tempered electrically to take the
hardest, sharpest cutting edges science has yet achieved. The edges them-
selves, shaped in three facets, on supporting shoulders for extra strength
and longer life. Uniformity ensured by testing at every stage of production.
You may ignore such technicalities, but you
will appreciate the quicker, smoother and
more refreshing shaves Blue Gillette blades
give you.
m a
i
«ws
<
<s>
:
o
ei
ts
HJo
|1
V
‘Good Mornings 9
begin with Gillette
PACKET OF I 0...2/11
PACKET OF 5... IM
661337
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Young married ex-Digger wants to rent
house, cottage or disused beehive within 20
miles of Sydney.—4os6.
To buy copies of Island Heritage, by Alison
Smith, and All That Swagger, by Stella Miles
franklin—4oss.
Secretary of a Sydney ex-servicemen’s asso-
ciation would like to hear from settlers or
others with knowledge of qualities of land in
N. Q’land, Nor’-west W.A., .and N.T. —4057.
Information Sought.
What is the Merchant Navy?
The Merchant Navy consists of all vessels,
duly registered and sailing under articles, which
aje used for the carrying of passengers and
merchandise. In 19.19, to mark his own and
the country’s esteem of the Merchant Service
and to show appreciation for its services in
the Great War of 1914-18, King George V
declared that henceforth the service should be
termed the Merchant Navy.
* *
(1) Does snow fall mom frequently in
England, Scotland and Ireland than in Aus-
tralia'? (2) What part of Australia experiences
snow frequently ? . (3) Is snow rare in the
British Isles, and degree of intensity? (4) Are
the summits of the highest pejiks in the British
Isles and Australia below the permanent snow
line ?
(1) Yes. (2) On the Australian Alps and the
Highlands of Tasmania. In these areas, snow
covers the ground for several months during
the winter and spring. Snow also falls
occasionally at lower levels along the Great
Dividing Range, but at places below 1000 ft.
level it is of rare occurrence. (3) In the
British Isles, snow is by no means rare
except on the coast in the extreme south and
south-west of England and Ireland, but in
the low-lying districts falls of sufficient intensity
to produce a covering deep enough to impede
traffic are uncommon and the snow usually dis-
appears fairly quickly, though drifts several
feet deep may be formed in hollows or railway
cuttings through wind action. November to
April is the period of greatest frequency. (4)
Yes, but there are hollows and gullies at
elevated levels like the Highlands of Scotland
and Mt. Kosciusko (Australia) where snow
accumulates in large quantities during the
winter, portions of which may remain unmelted
during most of the summer.
» * ♦ He
When are the Dog Days?
The days about the heliacal rising of the
Dog Star, noted from ancient times as the
hottest and most unwholesome period of the
year in the Northern Hemisphere. Their in-
cidence has been variously calculated as depend-
ing on the Greater or Lesser Dog Star (Sirius
or Procyon) and their duration has been
reckoned as from 30 to 54 days. A generally
accepted period is from July 3 to August 15.
* * * *
What assets may a Widow possess and still
be eligible for the widow’s pension?
A widow Maintaining at least one child under
16 years of age may have assets, either in
property or rqoney, to the value of £lOOO, apart
from the home in which she resides, and re-
ceive a pension. Income exceeding £1 per
week is deducted from the maximum rate of
pension and income of £3 2s. 6d. per week or
more precludes the payment of a pension.
A widow over 50 years of age not maintaining
a child under 16 years of age, whose assets,
apart from the home in which she resides,
are £650 or more, is not eligible for a pension.
Income exceeding £1 per week is deducted
from the maximum pension and income of
£2 12s. per week or more precludes the payment
of a pension. In addition to the
deduction, £1 for each complete £lO up to
£4OO and an additional £1 for every £7 over
£4OO to £650 by which the widow’s assets,
apart from her home, exceed the value of £5O
are deducted from pension.
* * ♦ *
I have lost dogs with heartworm. Is there
a preventive for this disease ? What is the
cause of the disease?
Parasitic worms infecting domestic animals,
also sheep, cattle, etc., vary greatly in type,
location, and life-cycle in relation to host.
Owing to similarity in appearance and symptoms,
both heartworm and lungworm may be con-
fused, but with location of the former in heart
cavity (right) and latter in the lung tissue itself
exact diagnosis is made in post-mortem. Heart-
worm in dogs is practically unknown in Aus-
tralia—occurrence is common in China, Japan
and East Asia. Imported dogs are quarantined
for this reason. Infection is caused by the
filaria parasite—there is no exact treatment. See
your vet. if infection is suspected.
v « * *
Some details concerning the dingo ?
The dingo or warrigal (Cards dingo) is the
only indigenous land mammal of the carnivora
found in the Australian fauna. It has all the
structural characters of the genus Cards, and
is about the size of an average collie —stand-
ing about two feet high and measuring about
five feet from the end of snout to lip of tail;
the muzzle is pointed, the ears rather short,
erect and broad at the roots, and the tail bushy
and of moderate length. The jaws are re-
markable for their terrific power. The color
of the back varies between the limits of light
reddish-brown and black; the lower surface
is always lighter; the feet and tip of the tail
are often white. In the wild state the dingo
usually hunts alone or with his lifelong mate,
although big game are occasionally hunted by
packs. He is monogamous, and probably the
most intelligent of all wild dogs. In unoccupied
country dingoes prey on marsupials—chiefly
the smaller kinds or the young of the larger—
and on such birds as they can surprise on the
ground. In partly-settled districts they fre-
quently destroy sheep, calves and poultry.
* * * *
(1) How many food parcels have been dis-
patched by the Food for Britain Fund ( N.S.W
Branch)? (2) How many parcels were posted
by private individuals last year, and cost of
postage? (3) As a result of the recent drive
for more meat for Britain how much was
purchased and shipped?
(1) The Food for Britain Fund has not at
any time sent individual parcels to people in
Britain. 1 The total amount of gift food
(£400,000) from this fund has been shipped
in bulk and addressed to the British Ministry
of Food for widespread distribution to all
parts of the British Isles. (2) In 1946 some
2,800,000 parcels were sent from Australia to
Great Britain through the ordinary postal
channels. The cost of postage on parcels has
been 3s. sd. for a 71b. parcel and ss. 7d. for
an 111 b. parcel, and therefore by taking the
average of 4s. per parcel it would appear that
approximately £560,000 was spent during 1946
in postal charges. (3) 3400 tons has been pur-
chased, the shipment of which has already
commenced.
•** * *
Whereabouts in Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane can one learn interior decoration?
llte East Sydney Technical College provides
a part-time course involving attendance at lec-
tures on three evenings per week for a period
of three years. Fees are 655. per year; juniors,
i.e., those under 21 years of age and earning
less than 30s. per week, are charged half-fees.
Evidence of artistic ability is required before
a student can be enrolled. Special entrance
examinations are conducted and further details
of these may be obtained from the Lecturer-
in-Charge, Art Department, East Sydney Tech-
nical College, Forbes-street, Darlinghurst. Be-
cause of the demand for the course priority
in enrolment is given to those students to whom
the instruction will be of benefit in their daily
occupations. Melbourne Technical College also
conducts a course in Interior Decoration and
for further particulars you should write to that
institution. Corrbspondence courses are also
available from Melbourne Technical College
and the Brisbane Technical Correspondence
School.
* * « *
Is a widoM>, residing in her own home and
receiving a maximum widow’s pension, who sells
her furniture and lets her dwelling, liable for
any penalty if she fails to inform the Social
Services Dept.?
By her failure to notify the department of
the alteration in her circumstances the pen-
sioner concerned has committed an offence
undei the Social Services Consolidation Act
and rendered herself liable for the penalty
prescribed under the Act for such an offence.
The pensioner would be required to refund all
pension to which she was not entitled, and,
if she has not already done so, should notify
the department immediately of the change in
her circumstances.
* * * ♦
What is Vitamin B Complex ? Is it taken in
tablet or liquid form and is it a combination
of certain types of food ?
Vitamin B Complex is composed of several
chemically unrelated compounds many are
identified and synthesised in the B vitamins,
while others are indefinite in both arrangement
and origin. A mixed diet fills certain vitamin
requirements—the B Complex is . added to with
liver extract, yeast products and prescribed Vit.
B 1 and B 2 derivatives. Latter are in tablet
and liquid form of Thiamin Chloride, Ribo-
flavin, etc. Early symptoms -of Vitamin B
deficiencies are suggestive of neurasthenia or
“nerves.” Mental depression, irritability, appre-
hension, inefficiency in daily tasks and loss of
concentration are followed by clinical manifes-
tations that demand medical diagnosis and
treatment.
* * * •
(1) Best way to keep pork except under re-
frigeration ? (2) How to carry out hn'-on-curing
on the farm and equipment needed? •
(1) Best way would be to place it in pickle
as follows: For 801 b. of meat use 201 b. salt,
21b. sugar, and 3oz. saltpetre well mixed. Rub
the meat well all over with the above mixture
and lay on boards in a cool place or cellar
for 24 hours, then place a few clean bricks
or stones on the bottom of a barrel, with
pieces of wood across these to form a shelf
so that the meat will not soak in the liquor
that drains from it. Pack the meat in layers
and sprinkle between these the remaining mix-
ture. Let it remain in the barrel 15 tq 16
days. Every day during this period drain off
the liquor through a bunghole near the bottom
of the barrel and pour this back over the meat.
At the end of this period take the meat out and
rub each piece well with dry salt and return it
to the barrel. If the liquor does not cover the
meat, make fresh brine in the proportion of
21b. salt, ioz. saltpetre and 1 quart of water,
boil for half an hour and pour in when cold;
keep the meat covered with brine by means of
a weight. The meat should be placed skin side
up in the barrel to pi event oversalting. Examine
from time to time to be sure the meat is keep-
ing well; should it seem likely to taint, throw
away the pickle, rub each piece with dry salt
and pack anew. (2) Notes posted should pro-
vide all the information required. The equip-
ment for farm curing need not be elaborate, but
should include a suitable container for the
pickle, ter on or meat saw, boning knife, steel
and stales for preparing the curing mixture.
* * * *
How to remove a stain from a cedar table?
Dissolve 1 cup washing soda in 1 gallon
warm water and rub article well with rag soaked
in solution; if necessary add a little pumice
powder. V/ipe dry and leave a day, then wipe
over with rag moistened with raw linseed oil.
If stain has left light patch go over it with light
or brown umber or red stain. Mix equal
parts of limewater, raw oil and turpentine,
apply liberally to surface, rub well and wipe
oil'. Fold another piece of rag, sprinkle pad
with methylated spirit and polish—lightly at
first, then with pressure. Takes getting into,
but worth persevering with till table is highly
polished. Repeat if necessary;
* * * *
In the event of the amalgamation of a group
of N.S.W. local-governing bodies, would there
be any order. of precedence regarding the
appointment of the administrative staff of the
new body?
Section 20C of the N.S.W. Local Government
Act 1919, provides that when a new shire
or municipality is constituted by the union of
areas, the persons who were servants of the
former councils immediately prior to the date
of constitution of the new area shall be trans-
ferred to the service of the new council. The


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO CYRIL EDWIN MAYTOM late of Wards River. —
TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS MEL VENA MAYTOM
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2335 of 1947 on
the ground of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for 3 years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend the suit you should enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 29th August, 1947 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from G. D. BONAMY,
Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney, Agent for J. M.
KUGGERO, Solicitor, 57 Hunter Street, Newcastle. —
(ii.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
p
RS
m
E
r?s®a
SS 9
s ■
r$
teE
mm
i S
ws
3^
■■ - c
Ziii
Tlhe best aie^
The trout species bred for Aus-
tralian fly fishing are the Rain-
bow and the Brown. Both live
to a fair age 12 to 15 years
for Brown, and about 7 years
for Rainbow but they give
best sport as swift-striking, hard-
fighting fish at 3 to 3V2 years
(Brown) and 3 to 5 years
*
(Rainbow). As they grow
older they get fatter and
lazier.
Not until a whisky has aged for
5 years does it enter its prime.
Maturity gives it mellowness
and fine bouquet. Corio Whisky
is matured for over
five years (more
than double the
minimum pre-
scribed by
Common-
wealth (
law).
iffftio Spec/ a I
Wm
Corio Special
Whisky at its prime
WIT/33
question of the appointment of the town or
shire clerk of the new area is one entirely
for determination by the new council, subject
to satisfaction of the various requirements of
the law relating to qualifications, etc. The
council may, if it so desires, appoint as the
clerk a person who is not already in its employ.
However, in such a case applications for
appointment to the position must be invited
by advertisement. The law does not establish
any order of priority for appointment as clerk
to the new area between the clerks of the
former areas.
« * • «
When should (1) daphne, (2) hibiscus and
other flowering shrubs be pruned?
(1) Except for shapeliness and getting rid
of cross-growing limbs daphne should not be
pruned. Too much cutting hinders the flow
of sap and the shrub gradually withers away.
(2) Hibiscus and other flowering shrubs should
be pruned as soon as convenient after the
blooms fall. It is advisable to leave young
growths until they have hardened. Pieces of
any of these shrubs set in sandy loam will root
quickly.
♦ # * •
Where and when was Jack Johnson born,
and when did he die? Where and when was
Sam Langford born, and where is he now ?
Did Johnson and Langford ever fight?
Johnson was born at Galveston, Texas,
U.S.A., on March 31, 1878. He was killed in
a motor accident at Raleigh, North Carolina,
on June IQ, 1946. Langford was born at
Weymouth, Nova Scotia, on March 4, 1886.
Langford now lives in New York, almost totally
blind. Johnson outpointed Langford (15 rounds)
in their only contest, at Chelsea, Mass., in 1906.
• * * *
(1) Where was the first Davis Cup challenge
round played, and the winner? (2) When were
Australia’s successes ?
(1) U.S.A. defeated British Isles 3-0 (they
were the only nations competing) at Boston
in 1900. (2) Australia won challenge rounds
at Wimbledon in 1907, at Melbourne in 1908,
at Sydney in 1909, at Christchurch (M.L.) in
1911, at New York in 1914, at Sydney in 1919,
and at Haverford (U.S.A.) in 1939.
♦ v * *
(1) How old was W. G. Grace (Eng.) when
he first repped in Tests? (2) Australian wicket-
keeper J. J. Kelly’s record in Test cricket?
(1) Grace was born July 18, 1848, and was
31 in his first Test v. Australia at Kennington
Oval (Eng.) on September 6-8, 1880. (2) Kelly,
bom May 30, 1867, played his first Test at
Lord’s (Eng.) on June 22, 1896, and then had
an unbroken run until suceeded by Hanson
Carter after the 1905 Australian XI tour to
England. Kelly played in 33 Tests—lB in
England and 15 in Australia ; and in 52 innings
scored 613 runs, averaging 17.51, and took 39
catches.
Brief Answers.
E.M.: Common names of botanic specimens
are; Digitaria sanguinalis, Summer Grass;
Bothriochloa decipiens, Red Leg Grass; Axono-
pus compressus, Carpet Grass; Rumex, species
Dock; Urochloa, species Urochloa Grass;
Urochloa panicoides, sometimes known as Liver-
seed Grass... .G.W.: The “green moss” is
probably a complex of low forms of plant life
known as lichens/ Lichens can be killed by a
spraying with lime sulphur (1 gallon commercial
lime sulphur to 10 gallons of water) during the
dormant season. Although the lichens will be
killed by this spray, they will not necessarily
fall Trom the tree, and you will have to scrape
them off if you desire to remove them entirely.
D.A.: The billiard term “Long Jenny,”
otherwise long loser, applies to the long shot
played off the red ball with the white. Leading
billiard identities with a lifetime of experience
of the game are unable to throw any light on
the origin of the expression, which appears to
be lost in the mists of time E.McD.: Reid’s
Creative Writing in New Zealand, Miller’s
There’s Gold in the River, Ross’s New Zea-
land’s First Capital, Sargeson’s When the Wind
Blows, Reed’s Myths and Legends of Maori-
land, Scholefield’s Notable New Zealand States-
men, Harper’s Memories of Mountains and
Men, Beaglehole’s Some Modern Maoris
L.M.H.: The stamp with head of Pasteur,
Ifr. 50c. blue, was one of a series issued
1923-26. The stamp is of no particular value;
it is catalogued at Is. unused and Id. postmarked.
M.A.: British authors awarded the Nobel
Prize for Literature are Rudyard Kipling, W. B.
Yeats, Bernard Shaw and John Galsworthy.
American authors who gained the same award
are Sinclair Lewis, Eugene O’Neill and Pearl
Buck L.T.8.; (1) The first Mauretania had
four funnels. (2) The, second Mauretania was
launched on July 28, 1938, and had two funnels.
(3) The first ship was 30,696 gross tons, the
second 35,6/7 gross tons A.J.: The four-
ball over was introduced in English cricket
in 1744, and was retained until May, 1889,
when it was increased to five. In May, 1900,
it was further increased, to six. In Australia
the number was increased from four to six
in December, 1887. The eight-ball over is
now used in Test cricket W.W.: (1) Lieut.
\V. T. Watson was captain, and Major W. F.
Matthews manager, of the 1919 A.I.F. Rugby
Union team. (2) Abroad —16 matches played,
won 12, lost 4; points for 181, against 79.
In Australia —8 matches played, all won; points
for 281, against 76 8.M.: If you use the
motor at approximately 800 to 1000 revs, per
minute you would have sufficient horsepower
to suit your purpose S.A.: Write Division
of Wood Technology, N.S.W. Forestry Com-
mission, 96 Harrington-street, Sydney
W.C.8.: Trans-Australia Airlines advises that
“they do not” J.P.T.: Write Industrial
Registrar’s Office, Dept, of Labor and Industry,
53 Martin-place, Sydney A.A.: The English
Elder is grown in the cooler parts of Australia,
but mostly in Tasmania, Victoria and the table-
land and coastal areas of New South Wales.
It will not stand a hot or dry climate.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
to the Editor.
W.A.8.: Both lightweights G.F.: “For
some time now I have been haunted by the
enclosed lines.” Well, it’s only a ghost ot
a poem.. .S.D.S.: Can’t cope with, 50 poems
at a time. Try the lot (singly> on a woman s
paper.. . .G.C.G.: You’ll never persuade any-
body you are enjoying “transports rare” while
you use such hackneyec( expressions as “ver-
dant lea,” “vernal rays” and “transports rare.’
D.T.: A pale glimmer in it M.F.G.:
A harmless trifle... .E.G.R.: A small poem
for such a vast theme... .E.H.: Nothing to
lift them out of the common run R.McD.:
Keep coming; with a few more rhymes, and
something more Than mere description of
Nature E.R.C. ;* “Loneliness” suggests that
you should never again be left to bach and
write poetry... .W. 8.: “The deplorable con-
dition of the country prompted me to compose
these lines.” Or, you could say, “The con-
dition of the country prompted me to compose
these deplorable lines”... .W.S.: You’ve a long
way to go R.J.G.: Nothing new in the
generalisations on women.... Sans Souci; Over-
colored Sitting Bull: Come in and sit for
a moment:
... .R.S.R.: Cove who made good in final para-
graph was at the wrong end of the queue
H.V.: Eccentric hermits of aristocratic parent-
age are a drug on the market S.D.: Send it
to a woman’s paper... .P.L.: Reads more like
a treatise on finger-print identification than a
story A.A.: Can’t believe that all that CTOwd
could achieve such a state of irresponsibility
on a mere five gallons of beer... .B J.: Habitual
drunkards are not as easily reformed as au
that....W.M.: Cut it down by half and try
again.... H.C.J.: Jap officer and Digger who
declare a private armistice in order to discuss
butterflies don’t ring true N.C.: Immature.
....G.R.: Type the next story you submit,
your handwriting is atrocious... .A.W.K. .
Nothing surprising in the fact that some cat-
burglars are model husbands at home , . :
You take 10,000 words to say what could be
said in a hundred... .T.S.: “Are they any
good?” Frankly, Thomas, they are n0t....
J.T.: You picked an apt title —“Gloomy .
F.McC.: Not including “McDougal’s Turkeys
in the menu.... W.J.W.: Why did you allow
Steve to do such a silly thing?... .A.H.8.:
All your village postmaster earned was another
trip through the mails... .F.H.D.: Floored the
commando at the first grapple... .R.Y.: It
wouldn’t be a bad idea if your guardian angel
gave you a few tips on writing C.G.: Your
guerrilla should never have been allowed to
stray from the steppes W.C.: So far its
only the skeleton of a humorous sketch
M.T.R.: We don’t use fiction that has been
printed elsewhere W.J.W. (West Aust.):
Not up to your usual standard... .M.H.: Nine
came in and nine went out A.N.8.: Not
for us A.M.F.: It didn’t miss by a great
deal. Try elsewhere C.8.H.: A clumsy
effort E.M.H.: “The Foreman” is this
week’s most unrealistic villain... .ATT: A
borderline story that might attract another
editor’s eye A.S.M.: “Our Joe” is not our
Joe... .R.H.McL.: Can’t understand why a
issue such a foolish order... .N.T.: Bob re-
mained unconvincing to the end J.E.T.;
Mr. .Simpkins too nondescript and his great
too slight an incident... .J.W.: “Boys
Will Be Boys”—those won’t, at least not in
our pages H.L.G.G.: “This enclosed little
episode really did happen.” Maybe, but it doesn’t
make a Bulletin story D.F.: More in-
terested in the problems of humans than in
the musings of a golf ba11.., .D.T.: No pay-
ment for “Easy Payments” G.W.: Not
pegging a claim for “Hidden G01d”... .D.C.A.:
Strange how all those blokes who kill their
cobbers always meet a violent accidental death
a little after the murder C.R.; Given more
suspense it might suit the magazine page of a
daily J.M.: Saw the not-very-bright ending
a mile away G.F.S.: Neither the Maoriland
story nor the trifle about the Flynn boy shows
much promise... .E.1.H.: Strangle that sucker.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.E.W.: Neat and tidy sketches, but where
is the humor? M.A.R.: Don’t make your
wash drawings so muddy looking... .K.T.8.:
What did you model those figures from —
clothes-props? .... W.A.; Congratulations upon
your colored Biblical drawings, but there is
nothing that we can do with them... .H.E.C.:
We suspect that the man in the kimono is
Doc. Evatt, but who is the chap done up as
St. George? F. 8.: A week seldom passes
without that old friend putting in an appear-
ance W.V.S.: Slight signs of improvement;
get more vigor, into your work R.J.R.:
The “He-She” type of gag has been in cold
storage for nearly 20 years... .W.McL.; The
signature is the best feature of the drawing.
. ...C.N.: We’ve run across that bearded
chess-player before... .F.M.: Wake up, Fred!
This is 1947, not 1897 L.R.W.: You put
down three strokes where one would suffice.
Words, no matter how they rhyme,
Are spelt so different every tyme,
I’ve often wondered (why I should
I’ve never really undcrstould).
One cannot say “Upon that bough
There sits a little Jersey cough.”


The CONTEST
By STANDBY
T HE Waitara was in port and I was
sitting in the Old Man’s cabin yarn-
ing with my friend. Captain Bell,
when the second mate knocked and
stepped in.
He was a tall, well-built young chap
with light reddish hair and a face that
would have been handsome except for
the expression of grim severity. Grim is
the only word that could describe him.
I judged him to be no more than 24 or
25 and yet there was a
deep frowning V between
his blue eyes; the muscles
of his cheek bulged as if
from constantly clamping
his determined - looking
jaw, and his mouth was set
in a hard, straight line.
When he spoke his lips
seemed scarcely to move.
He acknowledged Captain
Bell’s introduction, asked permission to
take the official log which was lying on
the table, and left without once showing
a glimmer of a smile.
“What do you think of him?” Bell
asked.
“Pretty grim sort of a youngster,” I
answered. “Doesn’t he ever smile?”
“Not often.” Bell settled his broad
frame back into his armchair and filled
his pipe. “He is grim,” he said. “But
he’s been through an experience that
would sour most youngsters.”
A match flared and for a few seconds
Bell’s weather-beaten face disappeared
behind a cloud of smoke. “It was back
in the war years,” he went on, carefully
placing the match in the ashtray, “when
the Americans were buying up all the
small ships on this coast and sending
them up to New Guinea to relieve the
supply problem. They were manning
them with Australian crews and, attracted
by the high pay I suppose, young Peter
joined their service. He’d only passed
for second mate the year before, but they
gave him a command! Imagine it! They
were short of qualified men of course, and
Peter’s obvious zeal must have impressed
them ; he was absolutely wrapped up in
his profession.”
SHE lay alongside a wharf in the
Brisbane river—a slim, graceful liitie
craft of just under the 100 tons. There
was beauty in her lines, the old-fashioned
beauty of the day when ships were built
with an eye to grace of line. As was
the style of those days her masts and
funnel were slender and raked well aft;
her fine clipper bows ended in a short
bowsprit and on her shapely counter
the name Isobel was embossed in brass
letters.
That was the little wooden steamer
Isobel as Peter first saw her from the
wharf. He took in her lines, her new
running gear and the fresh olive-green
paintwork and felt the thrill of pride
that only a true seaman can feel. This
was his ship.
He was like a kid who, expecting a
rocking horse from Santa Claus, wakes
up on Christmas morning to find a real
live pony in his bedroom.
The Isobel had just completed a hurried
dockyard overhaul. Her copper sheath-
ing had been renewed, her seams caulked
and her old steam engines ripped out and
replaced by a new diesel. She smelled
strongly of fresh paint, but all these things
could not disguise her age. You can’t
conceal age with paint. It showed in her
thirsty deck planks, her pitted iron work
and in the very blisters and scales under
her brave new war paint.
But if Peter noticed these things he
ignored them. With him it was a case
of love at first sight. You know how it
is when you get your first command ; she
may be full of faults but you can’t see
any of ’em. It’s like the first girl you
ever loved. She’s perfect.
•Leaving his suitcase at the head of the
gang plank Peter set out to explore his
ship. Her accommodation plan was
simple. A single deckhouse ran from
amidships almost to the sweep of her
counter and a narrow alleyway running
down its centre gave access to a galley,
storeroom and fo’c’stle on the port side
and two messrooms and two cabins on
the starb’d.
The top of this structure, which was
reached by two ladders, constituted the
boat deck, the for’ard portion being
taken up with the bridge, chartroom and
master’s cabin. Below decks she had a
single hold and aft of that was the engine-
room. '
Peter picked up his suitcase and walked
proudly up to the little cabin abaft the
chartroom—the Old Man’s cabin. Why,
he was the Old Man!
NEXT day her crew joined her.
Shepherded by the male tney
dumped their gear on deck and reported
to the Master. After inviting the mate
to sit down Peter interviewed each man
in turn. His worries were commencing,
for, out of a crew of seven composed of
two engineers, a cook and four deck-
hands, only the cook —a thin, pale,
aggressive little man with a wisp of
sandy hair straying down over one eye
—had served his sea-time and he was
gloriously, expansively full,
Peter sent them below and turned Jo
the mate,
“Well, Mr, Olsen,” he said. “What do
you think of that lot?”
Olsen shook his head ponderously. A
big, slow-thinking, slow-speaking old
Norwegian whose
prominent cheek
bones seemed to be
forcing their way
through his broad,
stolid face, he had
“sailor” stamped all
over him.
Peter glanced from
the pale-blue eyes to
the heavily - tattooed
hands and thanked
God for one seaman. His pleasure
didn’t last long. Olsen confessed that he
knew absolutely nothing of navigation or
any form of signalling. In 30 years at
sea he’d reached the limits of his capa-
bilities and ambitions by rising to the
rank of bosun.
“Turn the hands to as soon as you
can, Mr. Olsen,” Peter said. “Put them
on day work and keep them at it. We’ve
got to have the ship ready for sea in
four days’ time. You’d better see if you
can teach them the rudiments of sea-
manship before we sail.”
Poor young devil! Already he was
beginning to realise how big a thing he
was up against. Big! Why, it was enough
to daunt even an experienced Master.
The whole of the navigation would rest
on him. He could only rely on Olsen to
see that the course was steered and so
long as they were in sight of land he
must be on hand to fix positions and
answer signals.
Most men would have demanded a
mate who could at least be entrusted
with a watch, but to Peter that would
have been an admission of incompetence.
Don’t imagine he felt sorry for himself.
He wouldn’t have changed places with
the King of England. Possibly he feared
that if the authorities realised the diffi-
culties confronting him they might relieve
him of his command and put another,
more experienced man, in his place. And
that was the very last thing young Peter
wanted. He loved that old tub with a
love that would have made many women
envious.
The only feature about her he dis-
liked was her belting." It was a cumber-
some affair that started from the flare
of her bows and ran clear around the
ship, projecting amidships a full 18 inches
from her sides. In Peter’s opinion it
marred the grace of her lines. Later on
he was to curse that
belting for other
reasons.
He did not get
the Isobel to sea in
four days. There
were the usual delays
of engine-room ad-
justments and last-
minute jobs. But if
Peter fretted at the
delay the cook en-
joyed it. He must
have been a genius
at finding grog, for
Peter says that even
at breakfast times
he was never really
sober. He was an evil-tempered, trucu-
lent little man but a good cook.
Much to Olsen’s disgust they finally
put to sea on a Friday. The mate had
all the old sailormaij’s superstitions
about sailing on Friday and was full of
gloomy prophecies. “Townsville for
loading orders,” Peter’s sailing orders
read. He knew his Queensland coast
and was glad to be getting to sea at
last. Queer how we all get that feeling
after a spell in port, isn’t it? You feel
as if that first lift of the bows to the
open sea rids you of all the worries that
have been piling up in port.
(started to blow the first night out —
lothing much but-enough to kick up
a moderate following sea. Olsen, who
was proving a gloomy pessimist, shook
his big head at the Isobel’s antics,
“She is no good, this vun,” he de-
clared glumly. “Yust a pig in a seavay.”
“Don’t talk rot,” Peter snapped. “She’s
a bit lively because she’s empty. She
only needs a cargo to steady her up.”
She certainly needed something, for she
pitched and rolled with a sickening cork-
screw motion. Her movements were stiff
and jerky, owing mainly, Peter says, to the
way she slammed her huge belting down
on the water with a force that sometimes
abruptly terminated her roll. Peter, Olsen
and the cook were the only ones who
were not violently seasick. |
Possibly because he was too drunk to
really feel it the cook seemed not to
notice the motion. Somewhere on board
he had planted a supply of grog, suffi-
cient to keep him in various stages of
drunkenness all the way to Townsville.
He did, however, manage to prepare
sketchy meals for Peter and Olsen, who
were taking turn-about at the wheel.
How Peter kept going I don’t know,
for lie never' saw his bunk until he
reached Townsville. His tremendous
enthusiasm carried him along, I suppose ;
that and his youth. He must have been
pretty well done in when he reached
port, for he turned in and slept for 16
hours. It was noon the following day
when he awoke and went below in search
of something to eat.
He found Olsen in the galley preparing
himself a meal. The cook was ashore
on the booze, Olsen informed him. Two
of the deckhands had jumped the ship
and the assistant engineer had suddenly
remembered a sick mother in Brisbane.
They would never see him again.
If it wasn’t for the money, Olsen
added, he would have jumped the ship
himself; She was cranky; she was
dangerous. She would turn right over
in a bad sea. “Yust like dot!” To
illustrate his point Olsen turned the tea-
pot upside down, scattering tea leaves
over the galley floor.
Peter shut him up irritably. He was
getting neither help nor moral support
from his mate. Moreover, he wasn’t
going to have his ship tun down by Olsen
or anyone else.
They put the cargo into her next day
—lOO tons of ammunition. Nothing else
—just sheer dead weight. It was the
worst cargo they could have given her.
She’d already shown that she was stiff
in her movements and what she needed
was a bulky cargo—one that would fill
her right out to the wings of her hold
and raise her centre of gravity.
Peter’s training should have told him
that, but I suppose he had too many
other worries on his mind already. Olsen,
of course, couldn’t be expected to know
Anything about metacentric heights and
centres of gravity.
With two new deckhands and a new
assistant engineer they sailed for Milne
Bay via the Grafton Passage.
“You’ll see a difference in her now,”
Peter told Olsen as they steamed out
past Magnetic Island “This cargo’ll
steady her up,”
And for once that gloomy old pessi-
mist was inclined to agree with him. In
perfect weather they cleared the Grafton
Passage and laid a course for the China
Straits. Peter handed over to Olsen at
eight o’clock that night and actually
turned in until midnight.
It was wonderful to think that he, who
had so often read the Old Man’s night
VARIOUS VERSE.
Mare and Foal.
Tea-tree, bangally, moonlight on twist
and spike:
Oh, say it again, “White horse bring me
good luck,”
As we used to say it in childhood; for,
misty of mane,
Creamy of flank and tail, drifting like
smoke
In fantastic shapes of horses from the
gullies blown,
The white mare strays with her snowy
foal in her wake.
This is the red road where the crow
grieves
And the spider-flower lies crimson in
pointed leaves,
But now in the miles of moonlight soften-
ing the ridges
There is no sound but the foal on its
unshod hooves,
No color but dusk except where the white
mare trudges,
Shadow and moonshine rippling her coat
like waves.
Snuffling from wide black nostrils she
turns to her foal
And, scenting danger, they poise where
the light is full,
Ears pricked in a creamy flare; then,
warm and breathing.
The long-legged foal head-high at his
mother’s heel,
They pass and are gone again like white
smoke wreathing.
Oh, now' while the moonlight glitters
from hill to hill.
What could I ask beyond the luck they
brought
When, moving through trees dnd flowers,
curving and white.
Dark-eyed, tranquil with love, shaking
the mind
With all it has sought in dream or vision
or thought,
The white mare came with the silver foal
behind,
Immortal beauty roving a star of light ?
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Australian Song.
The boomerang a-whirl, a-twirl,
A-swishing on its airy track.
Touched by an electric madness,
Turning and a-coming back.
My love rode on a boomerang,
(A goofy ride it be, it he):
A-whirl, a-twirl, a-swishing, smack,
A-wobble home ecstatically.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.
Small-town Gladys.
There are rows of bottles against the
glass ;
I look between, and my hair’s blond
grass,
My lips are berries and my skin is cream
And I fill my frock to the very brim
And twirl a curl when the sportsmen
pass —
And I’m a good girl, I am.
They call me Glad and say I’m a queen.
I look in the glass and my eyes are
green
And they talk to men though they make
no sound,
For it’s love that makes the world go
round ;
But, go too far, and I say “Go on;
I am a good girl, I am.”
In every novel I’m Lady Jane,
I use the hook as a wicked fan.
And I sit on a stool and my fingers knit
A web to snare a sportsman’s wit.
And they look at me as they look for
rain,
But I’m a good girl, I am.
Under the willows, under the night.
Where schoolboys spy and the parson
might,
I am the moon that rules the tides
Of men —and I shake and hold my sides
And say ‘‘My make-up’s an awful sight!
And I’m a good girl, I am.”
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


1111
PCTT
i,
li
ii
**#s!
'fliili
IHM
8
’>
■
WSi
II
Ng!
■
i
m
?,m ;
>M»}way*^- ;
SB®
m
ft
mm
$m
m
W
amm
ma
:■ :.,
&y&:-#:
*• ••. V:v •;•>• : • '
■■
Baking in th
Up at Mt. Morgan, Queensland, they
mine for copper. After mining, the
ore is crushed and the bulk of the
metal extracted by an acid treatment.
However, there still remains a payable
quantity of copper in the acid
residues and this is recovered by
raking with a machine called a
“Dorr Thickener,” of the torque type,
illustrated above.
The problem associated with the
construction of this “Thickener” was
to prevent abrasion and corrosion of
the steel raking-arms if exposed to
the action of the acid in the “slime.”
Dunlop Technicians said : “Why not
cover the whole of the steel framework
with a protective skin of special acid
resisting rubber !” Their suggestion
was adopted. The steelwork was
built up in three sections by a
Melbourne engineering firm, rubber
coated at the Dunlop Montague
Factory and riveted together at the
mine where Dunlop Technicians
completed the job by covering the
joins with rubber transported to the
job packed in dry ice!
The successful completion of this
unusual and difficult job is typical
of the service given by Dunlop
Technicians in' the application of
rubber in Australian industries.
Maybe you have a problem for which
rubber can provide the answer?
If so, please don’t hesitate to write
for expert advice to the Dunlop
Branch in your own State.
iksVtJtl
(As 7 i
&
m,
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INC. IN VIC.)
D 455
orders, had to-night written those words
on the pad himself. “Call me if the
weather thickens or if you are in any
doubt.”
It’s a grand thrill, isn’t it—the first
time you do that? You feel that you’ve
risen to the very top of your profession
and that you’re a sort of minor god. It
soon wears off, of course, and you realise
that you’re a very ordinary sort of a
bloke after all, with more than your
share of responsibilities,
PETER didn’t sleep for long. It
started to blow about 10 o’clock and
before daylight it was blowing hard.
Nothing cyclonic or anything like it but
it kicked up a short, steep beam sea. It
started the Isobel rolling heavily.
In spite of her trim looks the Isobel
had never been designed for rough
waters. Her very antics proved that, for
all that day and all the next night she
flung herself about like a child’s toy boat
tossed into breaking surf. She rolled
with vicious jerky rolls as if anxious to
free herself of the men clinging to her
swaying bridge. In Peter’s opinion there
was nothing dangerous about her move-
ments ; her angle of heel was never very
great. It was the monotonous, madden-
ing discomfort of it.
Sleep was impossible and even an
experienced seaman could not move along
her decks without holding on with both
hands. Peter says her huge belting was
the chief cause of it. It may have been,
but I’m inclined to suspect that cargo.
She’d roll over to port and crash her
belting down with a shivering thud, fling-
ing sheets of spray far out to leeward.
Then, still quivering under the impact,
she’d fling herself violently back to
starb’d. Roll, roll, crash, crash, till she
smashed everything breakable on board
and reduced her crew to a state of
nervous terror. Even the stolid Olsen,
clutching desperately for support, showed
his fear.
“By Yasus!” he said. “She vill trow
us all overboard.”
She rolled till she burst lockers and
hurled their contents to the deck. She
flung men from their bunks and hurled
their bedding after them. She even
emptied the signal flags from their locker.
Roll and crash, roll and crash and every
time she slammed her belting down on
the weather-side she scooped up half a
ton of water and flung it inboard.
Worn out, seasick and thoroughly
scared her crew cursed her and almost
prayed for the end. They couldn’t eat,
they couldn’t sleep and their arms and
legs ached from the constant strain of
bracing themselves against that damn-
able roll. She rolled till the timbers of
her deckhouse creaked and groaned in
agony.
The night was a bedlam of noises, of
groaning woodwork, the clattering of
loose gear rolling to and fro, and above
all the heavy crashes as that damned
belting slammed down on the sea.
EARLY next morning Olsen climbed
to the bridge to report she had
opened up a leak. He looked like a
huge, badly - frightened gorilla as he
clawed his way from hand hold to hand
hold towards where Peter had wedged
himself against the chartroom door.
“She vos going to pieces! ” he shouted.
“She vos sinking!”
Peter went below to investigate.
Clinging for support in the narrow alley-
way he got the impression that he was
standing in a raging stream fed on each
hand by intermittently gushing water-
falls. With each roll water poured over
cabin doorsills into the alleyways, now
inches deep in swirling, foaming sea
water.
From the galley the cook’s voice could
be heard imploring heaven and hell to
witness his misfortunes. Whether or not
he drew his courage from a bottle,
cowardice was not one of his faults, for
he and Peter were the only two on board
who were not horribly afraid.
Struggling against odds that would have
daunted most men he had got the galley
fire going and had fried a dish of sausages
and eggs only to have the whole lot
hurled from the stove by a particularly
{Continued on page 32.)
The Echo.
Are we ourselves? Or images reflected
As from some otherworld ethereal plane
Whereon, in time beyond our time projected,
Our very selves, the person, body, brain,
Played out, as if in time, their homely role,
So that of all our race the few selected
Alone can live, or seem to live, again,
Like the poor mime who, thrown upon the
screen,
Mouths it and struts it far beyond the grave?
We are but shades then, what we seem to have,
Warm blood, stiff bones, thoughts troubled or
serene,
All, all but echoes sporting in a void,
All, all but insubstantial echoes fleeting
Out of a void, into a void retreating,
Indestructible and yet destroyed;
Or, if indeed some chosen soul there be*
Who has some anchorage in reality.
The artist, the creator, this is he. ,
M.L.
ARNOLD WALL.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O.’S FUTURE (IF ANY).
Judging by the headquarters designed
for it in New York, U.N.O.’s future
should be high indeed—4s stories in one
building, 30 in another.
On the other hand, going by the in-
creasing attacks on it—and looking into
the record on which those attacks are
based —U.N.O. would seem to be sink-
ing to “a new low” with every session.
The grand new headquarters are
described by N.Y. “Times” as “a
$100,000,000 to $125,000,000 skyscraper
centre of starkly modern design,” and
by “Christian Science Monitor” as “the
United Nations’ ‘Capital of the World’
.... a combination of skyscrapers and
small, compact buildings set in a park-
like atmosphere combining utility and
beauty.”
Sceptics—their number appears to
have become legion in reaction to U.N.O.
pretensions and performances, especially
this year—would no doubt think N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” was making a merited
comment on U.N.O. itself in referring to
the published picture of the architects’
plans as resembling “a hazy photograph
of what looked like freight trains wrecked
at a siding.” The same doubters would
probably also see ironic symbolism in
New York Mayor O’Dwyer’s announce-
ment that, apart from the Caliph’s ransom
to ht spent by U.N.0., “New York will
spend $15,000,000 to spruce up the sur-
rounding slaughter-house district.”
The district is along the East River—
New York’s midtown East Side —which
could also be regarded by the doubters
as singularly appropriate, all the actions
towards the slaughtering of U.N.O. hav-
ing had Eastern direction; from the
Kremlin over to the East side of Europe.
In fact, those actions —chiefly the re-
peated use of the veto on every single
issue of importance, achievement in
which might have made U.N.O. the great
power for good it was intended to be —
have led to U.N.O. being now practically
a nullity.
The stage has been reached where even
the most staunch of supporters are be-
coming convinced that unless there is
drastic change in its working U.N.O, has
no future at all.
U.N.O.’s Grand Home
Perhaps the doubters and enthusiasts
alike—at least, if Americans —might get
consolation from the thought that, if the
worst does happen, New York will at all
events have an even more grandiose and
far more costly symbol of high human
aspiration to pass on to posterity—unless
an atom bomb gets it —than Switzerland
has at Geneva. As a comparison, the
old Genevan League of Nations head-
quarters—about which hope rose higher
than anything U.N.O. has yet known —•
cost only about $10,000,000.
When that old League h.q. was being
built, writer Philip Gibbs asked the work-
men on it what it was to be for, and was
told “A hospital for the next war.” If
the U.N.O. workmen, due to start con-
struction about December, have any such
ironic thoughts, at any rate they will bfe
putting up accommodating quarters, in
restful surroundings.
The sprucing up of the district promised
by New York’s Mayor will include
“public parks, a two-lane highway with
tree-lined promenades leading into the
international zone and underground
streets to hide through traffic passing near
the United Nations capital.” The city’s
expenditure on all that, however, will
be mere pocketmoney compared with the
U.N.O. outlay. Here are some selected
items of this from “Christian Science
Monitor” and N.Y. “Times” reports:
The main building, a 45-story skyscraper, to
cost about $20,000,000, will be erected at the
42nd-street end of the six-block tract, and will
be rectangular in shape. The top floors will
have offices for the Secretary-General and the
eight Secretariat departments. The lower part
of the building will contain broadcasting studios,
press offices and other special divisions. The
office space will provide for personnel expan-
sion to 5000, or about 2000 more than are
now with the organisation.
There will be super-quick facilities for inter-
floor circulation, including some 20 escalators,
movable partitions, pneumatic tubes between
major departments and underground connec-
tions between all building units, including a
subterranean garage for 2000 cars.
The General Assembly hall will provide for
future expansion to 70 delegations from the
present 55. The three Council chambers—
with the delegates sitting in the centre of the
room and the public and press looking down
from opposite galleries—and four large com-
mittee rooms will be built in a low, flat unit
along the river bank over the Franklin D.
Roosevelt Drive. Another large chamber will
be constructed in a fan-shaped unit facing the
Assembly building.
At some later date another building may be
planned for employees’ recreation, but in the
meantime a 600-seat theatre will be built in one
of the other units.
Restaurants are lo be scattered throughout
the project. Special roof-top dining rooms
will overlook the river for the public and the
delegates. Concessions for staff servicing will
be included in the site, including a bank and
post-office.
A system of simultaneous interpretation-
now used only in two committee rooms at
Lake Success—will be provided in all confer-
ence rooms and some committee rooms. The
system may also be installed in the three Council
chambers and the General Assembly hall.
Air conditioning and a system of air change
will make smoking possible for all chambers.
Provisions are also being made for the showing
of films in the various chambers so that re-
ports or documents could be projected for all
the delegates.
The city’s project for the approach to the
site along Forty-seventh-street calls for a two-
lane road with a central mall and tree-lined
promenades on both sides, so that from one
side of the street to the other there will be
five separate rows of trees. The street will be
widened from 100 ft. to 160 ft.
The chambers- of the Security Council, the
Economic and Social Council, and the Trustee-
ship Council will be alike in layout and design
and will seat 90 delegates and advisers, to-
gether with 725 members of the press and
public.
Five conference rooms for plenary meetings
will provide space for 70 delegates and 280
advisers, with additional space for 200 members
of the public and 150 representatives of the
press and Secretariat.
. There will be 18 committee rooms varying
in size.
Among other prominent buildings will be a
library directly connected with the Secretariat
Building.
Another skyscraper will house the specialised
agencies, including the International Labor
Food and Agriculture Organisation,
World Health Organisation and the Inter-
Chicago "Tribune."
“JUST LIKE HIS FATHER BEFORE HIM!"
national Trade Organisation, totalling approxi-
mately 2200 persons, plus liaison offices for
all other specialised agencies and non-
Governmental organisations.
As some future houseless war veteran
might be heard saying, “What a place
to squat!”
Prospective Occupants
Since all that is no more than a general
outline of the grand design drawn up by
a dozen or so leading architects from as
many countries, expectations of the
“Capital of the World” being ready for
its occupants in 1949 seem optimistic,
despite Uncle Sam’s reputation for
hustle.
Anyway, at some future date the
premises and environs are expected to
be occupied by U.N.0.; at present repre-
senting 55 nations —the 55th, as a point
of historical interest, the Kingdom of
Siam,
Before 1949 therfe should be additions
to the nations, and apparently also to the
numbers, not to say hordes, representing
them. Overlooking any possible defec-
tions (or ejections?), added nations could
include those for whom what are called
peace treaties have been completed, as
well as others still standing out, doubt-
fully sniffing the air. Hearings on appli-
cations for membership by nine extra
nations were begun on July 21,
Indicating added U.N.O. troubles
ahead —as if there would not be more
than enough anyway—“ World Report”
points out that when nations already
under peace treaties (Italy, Hungary,
Rumania and Bulgaria) are admitted
they then will be in a position to
start arguing in a world forum for re-
vision of the treaties; U.N.O. members
will take sides; war-time grudges will be
revived in the heat of debate.”
Another looming problem—it will be
readily understood by people who live
in rabbit country—has been noted by
“Christian Science Monitor”:
Like a wild sapling, the United Nations is
growing roots in all directions.
Every time one turns around these days, it
seems, another U.N. agency or commission puts
in an appearance. And some of the member
nations are beginning to get worried.
As one delegate has put it, “If the demand
for representatives to serve on this body and
that continues at its present pace, there will
soon be nobody left to run the home Govern-
ments.”
Representatives of Chile, Cuba, New
Zealand and elsewhere “have warned
against the growing tendency to multiply
specialised agencies.” As the “Monitor”
further reported:
Fausto Soto of Chile described the process
thus: “The procedure has Ijeen to recognise
a problem—and of course there are many
problems today— to discuss it, to create a
commission to study it, and then to convene
a conference and create a specialised agency
to deal with it.”
Smaller countries, especially, find it difficult
to provide the personnel required for represen-
tation in regular meetings of the U.N. and its
organs, not to mention the steadily-increasing
number of conferences.
Before long, Mr. Soto suggests, it will be
necessary to set up a special agency merely to
co-ordinate all the conferences.
“It used to be that I couldn’t remember
where commission meetings were to be
held,” another anguished representative
exclaimed. “Now I can’t remember the
commissions!”
Boots-and-all Critics
Those are far from the really severe
criticisms of what U.N.O. has become.
The body has been taking a solid pom-
mailing, both from within its own ranks
and from the lower orders outside.
Even its birthday celebration on June
26 the second anniversary of the sign-
ing of the San Francisco Charter —was
marred by exchanges more like flyittg
saucepans than bouquets. As an example
from within, one of U.N.O.’s own mosl
.loyal members—Belgian Premier Paul
Spaak ; the General Assembly’s first presi-
dent—broke in on a spate of damning
with faint praise to put it straight to his
fellow-strivers: “Why attempt to hide the
disillusions which these two years have
brought us?”
But that was nothing to the stuff com-
ing in through the windows from outside
to mar the occasion. Thus Chicago
Tribune,” noting that M. Spaak did not
define the disillusions he referred to,
commented;
Nor did any of the other politicians who find
it useful to their purposes to cling to the pre-
tence that U.N. is a working organisation
dedicated to introducing high standards of
idealism into international dealings. But the
judgments left unilpbken should be apparent
to anyone who is not addicted to self-deceit.
Two years ago, when U.N. was created, even
the best-informed people—those who were not
carried away by internationalist propaganda and
hysteria thought it was no worse than a smoke
screen to distract attention from America’s war
criminals in the State, War and Navy Depart-
ments and in the executive office of the Presi-
dent, together with their collaborationists. These
men had pushed the country into war by means
which were hidden at the time. When the
sordid story of this conspiracy began to come
out, the motives of the victor nations had to
be cloaked in the fiction that they had been
lovers of peace all along, and that they would"
use the victory to create a better world through
U.N._
This fraudulent posture was soon exposed
by the vicious jockeying for national advanta-
which went on within U.N. a - e
As a x? news P a Per example, N.Y.
Daily News sent along these birthdav
greetings: 3
It’s a rather grim paradox that the United
Nations’ stock should hit a new low just
arrangements are being completed to build I
very posh world capital for the U.N. on six
square blocks of valuable New York City rea
estate, J
The expectant tenant of the new world capital
however, is a sick patient. Whether it wd
survive to move into its new residence is any-
body’s guess. 3
From that the “News” went on to these
hearty conclusions:
thN ft ’ ther £ 18 01 l e bright itCm in aII
this gioomy news about the U.N. President
Robert Hutchins, of the University of Chicago,
who should know what he is talking about in
this case, says this country now has stock-
piled enough atom bombs to destroy everv
major city in the world.
TT ,^. h ° p ? tha . t „ is bue. Also, we hope the
United States will not weary of well-doing, and
will go on making and stacking away those
bombs. We hope further that we will increase
our array of 836 bombers, which can take
about 10 tons of bombs to any point in the
world and return to base without refueling.
Were not going to attack anybody. As
long as we are far out front in the atom-bomb
parade, we can keep the peace of the world—
or we can swiftly make a shambles of any
nation that breaks the peace.
With the U.N. as weak as it now is, the
United States is the only reliable peace-
preserving agency in sight. Let’s act accord-
ingly.
To make these felicitations to U.N.O.
on its second birthday sufficiently repre-
sentative, those of a private citizen may
be added—former Supreme Court Justice
Owen J. Roberts testifying before a Con-
gressional House Committee:
The United Nations was doomed to failure
as a security organisation from the very first.
It is primarily an organisation for discussion
and for improvement of the weaker members.
In the matter of security it was an alliance
between Great Britain, Russia and the United
States. When one member of an alliance turns
against the others, what have you got? Well,
that’s what we have now. It will never succeed
as a security organisation.
The fact must be faced that the United
Nations could no more prevent a major war
now than a two-year-old child could stop a
street-corner fight.
Sabotage Within
Such criticisms —even Edgar Ansel
Mowrer’s acrid comment in N.Y. “Post”
that “this U.N. Assembly smells like the
League of Nations ; not like the League
of the brave hopeful days [but] like the
cynical disintegrating League”—are all
healthy enough in themselves. At least
they show interest, even though the disap-
pointment overrides it.
The U.N.O. record that has led to
such a saddened state of mind is a story
to be dealt with separately. Enough for
the present that it is a record of earnest,
honest striving pitted against endless
obstruction and double-dealing endured
with incredible patience. It is the story
of the preventing of atomic control, the
blocking of disarmament, the destruction
of the once high hopes of a U.N.O. con-
trolling an international force capable of
maintaining the peace of the world.
The great bulk of press and other
criticism throughout all this has been
favorable and helpful; the decline story
is one of sabotage within. Except, that
is, when U.N.O. has ventured out of its
New York shelters, on some such mission
as investigating the Greek charges against
Soviet-dominated neighbors. Even in that
case there are thoroughly authenticated
accounts of sabotage within by Secre-
tariat-appointed members of the in-
vestigating sub-commission. Apart from
that* the contempt for U.N.O. authority
can be shbwn by one brief extract from
a London “Times” report:
After examining the Greek case as far as
was possible on the Greek side of the border
the [U.N.O.] sub-commission decided that the
examination could not be completed without
crossing the border, but when the delegates
tried to do so they were faced by reinforced
Bulgarian frontier guards with fixed bayonets,
whose commander said that he had received
no instructions about the sub-commission. The
delegates conferred in the open air and m
torrential rain. According to certain members
of the commission, when the Bulgarian com-
mander was asked for his name and unit for
insertion in the report on the situation he
refused to give them, and in this was supported
by the Russian delegate, who said that all
Russian soldiers were instructed never to dis-
close their identity, and probably the same
orders had been given in the Bulgarian Army.
The commission then started on a five-hour
ride on mules back to Siderokastro, where the
delegates again boarded their train to return,
thwarted, to Salonika.
The story, of course, does not end at
that farcical point, though it does end
in farce. Apart from minority Soviet
dissect, the whole investigating commis-
sion upholds the Greek charges. The
inevitable sequel is that, by the single
Soviet veto in the Security Council, all
that labor is brought to nothing. And so
by that much more —as in the 10 othei
Soviet uses of the veto ; the throwing out
by that means of Britain’s completely
proved case against Albania ; and all the
rest of the sabotage within—U.N.O. be-
comes a still sorrier laughing stock.
Hope Springs Eternal
Despite the whole record, there is still
very considerable support for U.N.0.,


v;
S:* HOBB
m
mm
u
m.
WM
mm.
m
<*. •muuU'UU
wm*
MiTil W
W¥i
rnrmmmmr' : ■ ■ "
■ ■' -- spi
'K m m
as
f- ■ ■[>' . : :: : - ••
>■*
iiiVM;
| ''
r;1«'
• .' f
iillWH
■ A: r '
HUM
a^awis
m iffm
- '■•:• ■ ■....• ■
S 3
Dry Ginger Ale
WITH A SLICE OF LEMON MAKES AN
IDEAL DRINK
“Il Merlo Giallo” (Rome).
“ I’LL BE HAVING A DRINK AT THE BAR, IN CASE
SOMEONE ASKS FOR ME.”
and still hope. A “Christian Science
Monitor” correspondent, after reporting
a day’s debating in which “from start to
finish the Security Council appeared to
be moving in a vast circle,” went on to
ask:
Where is it all going to end?
Will the Security Council go on from one
decisionless meeting to another, or will some-
thing happen to put it on the upswing again?
While pessimistic, the delegates are not com-
pletely without hope.
The public, too, apparently is still hoping.
As another example, N.Y. “World-
Telegram” :
The biggest, most vital thing about the United
Nations is the idea behind it and which brought
it into being. Most countries want a strong,
responsible agency for world security, and only
a few do not. Given time, those few will see
the light or fall by the wayside. In either
event the U.N. then can go on to achieve its
rightful destiny.
One more —Britain’s permanent U.N.O.
delegate, Sir Alexander Cadogan:
In spite of discouraging developments now
and then, much is being accomplished, and not
the least of the present achievements is the
keeping of the U.N.O. machinery in good
working order, ready for the fuller use hoped
for it.
Much more enthusiastic—or they
might be called fantastic —examples can
be given. Such as the parade, not so
long back, of 10,000 American school-
children doing honor to U.N.O. by being
dressed in the costumes of all—or, it
may be hoped, most —peoples of the
world. Or the half-column report in
N.Y. “Times” under the heading “World
Radio Fans Avid for U.N. News,” begin-
ning :
Radio listeners of the world, showing com-
plete trust in the powers of the United Nations,
are asking the organisation to hunt for used
cars, find hard-to-get wireless sets and get rid
of unpopular Governments.
It would be sinful to see such
enthusiasms go entirely unrewarded ; and
perhaps they won’t. Another N.Y.
“Times” report of U.N.O. affairs tells of
“a nation-wide observance of United
Nations Week, September 14-20,” adding
some details:
Emphasising the individual’s responsibility to
the United Nations, the slogan for the pro-
grammes will be “There’s a U in the United
Nations.” It will be featured on posters,
lapel buttons and other devices to be distributed
by the American Association for the United
Nations, the National Broadcasting Company
and the National Education Association, in
co-operation with other national organisations.
Already the Governors of 20 States have
agreed to issue proclamations and statements
setting aside the September dates, and 50
national organisations have signified their
readiness to co-operate. Another 50 are ex-
pected to participated
One enthusiast remarked of that move
to enlist public support for the world
peace body that what is being done
“could become as contagious as measles.”
N.Y. “Times” expects that the week’s
observance “will be not only national
but even international.”
Perhaps it might pardonably be
thought, taking into consideration the
sum total of what U.N,O. has achieved
so far, that an opportunity was missed
in not selecting the very place where that
observance idea originated as, on the
sheer strength of its name, the proper
site for U.N.O.’s “Capital of the World.”
.The place is in Westchester County, N.Y.
Its almost unbelievable name is Tarry-
town.
SLAVES TODAY.
A cable lately reported the Inter-
national Conference on Human Rights as
deciding to ask. U.N.O. “to abolish
slavery in all parts of the world.”
■Die request referred to child slaves in
China, slaves in Abyssinia, in Arabia, in
Africa and India, and even in South
America. The total was put at 9,000,000.
There are a great many more slaves in
the world that the Human Rights people
have overlooked. Estimates of the total
vary, ranging, in an American Federation
of Labor report, up to as many as
20.000. in Russia alone.
The A.F.L. report included prisoners-
of-war, still held and made to labor by
various countries. It declared that the
system of slave labor is expanding; has
become “a post-war institution in many
lands,” constituting “a dire threat to the
free workers of all countries”:
In Europe alone it has been estimated that
nearly one-third of all productive work is now
being done by forced labor.
Despite the interval since the end of the war
millions of men and women from former enemy
countries are still being held as slave laborers.
Under no guise is the return to chattel
slavery and the Dark Ages permissible or desir-
able. What a sad retrogression! Compare
this with what happened after the first war
when, within 10 months after the end of hos-
tilities, all prisoners-of-war were freed. With
such impetuosity has mankind been going back-
ward that even an organisation calling itself
the World Federation of Trade Unions has
proposed the imposition of forced labor on the
Ruhr coalminers.
Paradoxical as it may appear, it is the land
which calls itself “Socialist,” the Government
which parades as a “workers’ republic,” that
is the worst and biggest slave centre on earth
today. It is from Soviet Russia that the tidal
wave of labor enslavement has swept westward.
The Irkutsk “Pravda” only recently boasted
that 5,000,000 prisoners-of-war are being used
at penal labor in Siberia.
In the Kremlin domain there are millions
of Soviet citizens doomed to slave-labor camps
merely because they are suspected or convicted
of disapproving or disagreeing with some act
or policy of the ruling group.
But the Moscow dictatorship also holds in
slavery millions of non-Russians; hundreds of
thousands of these slaves were rounded up
by the Soviet police and snared up by its spy
dragnet in the capitals of Russia’s conquered
and satellite lands.
The foregoing American Federation of
Labor report and another from the same
source since were put out to counter
“Communists deceiving American
workers with false propaganda concern-
ing conditions inside Russia.” A Hearst
Newspapers correspondent has reported
to the same effect from' Europe,
except that he interprets Russia’s use of
the many millions as slaves as part of the
Soviet preparation for war. The corres-
pondent quotes a confidential report that
has reached him (in Rome) as stating:
Plans for deportations of workers and skilled
labor as the basis for industrial, transport and
agricultural rearmament on a vast scale were
carried out. These deportations were more
like compulsory migrations when one considers
the number involved.
Germany was stripped of her major scientific,
technical, skilled, organisational and military
brains. Many were “engaged”; many more
were simply deported.
From East Prussia, Pomerania and Upper
Silesia —two million between the ages of 16
and 60 were deported.
From Germanic regions of Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, Poland, Yugoslavia and Rumania —
750.000.
From Finland, the three Baltic republics of
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia and Austria —
another million of Germanic blood.
Moscow, of course, justifies “this un-
precedented human slavery” on the
ground that it represents reparations;
labor to reconstruct what the Germans
destroyed during the war. That excuse
for the leap back to the slave age would
be more convincing, perhaps, if there
were not the untold millions of Russians,
political prisoners, similarly driven as
slaves.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
In Case of War. —Not to be caught napping,
short of strategic materials, if a war d«es
come, Uncle Sam is steadily building up re-
serve stocks. According to “World Report,”
the aim is “a $2,100,000,000 stockpile, most of
the money to be spent outside the U.S.” The
pile is probably well on the way already;
otherwise details of the programme, “kept under
wraps since the war as a top secret,” would
hardly be let out now. “World Report” states
that the stockpiling is being speeded up: “At
present it is a strong undercurrent of buying
beneath the orders of industry. It may reach
boom proportions if relations between Russia
and the U.S. get no better. The aim is to get
enough of the raw materials the U.S. lacks
to carry industry through a five-year war.”
In the list are 83 raw materials, few of which
can be found in the U.S.
• * * *
J. Bull and Co. —Anyone tempted to fall for
the endless current propaganda that puts the
U.S. and U.S.S.R. as the only present world
Powers may take heart again from a N.Y.
“Times” contribution by that fine thinker Sir
Norman Angell, giving “such facts as these”:
“The British overseas communities, the British
Dominions of Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
South Africa, have today a population three
times as large as the population of the United
States of Jefferson’s day. Those Dominions,
with potential resources perhaps as great as
those of the United States, have a population
about equal to the American population of
Lincoln’s time. They could conceivably repre-
sent the real ‘New World’ of our generation.
What they and Britain stand for, and with
whom they are to cast their lot, is still enor-
mously important for free men everywhere.”
* * * *
France Down, Not Out. —Refuting sugges-
tions that France is hopelessly down, the N.Y.
“Post” Paris correspondent declares: “This is
simply not true. I have known France of old.
I have been watching things closely here for
the last two years,.. .Under favorable con-
ditions France could recover faster than Britain.
Indeed, France is already recovering rather
rapidly, although not rapidly enough. It is
suggested that France is already lost to our
way of life because of French Communism.
Actually, about three-fourths of France is
anti-Communist.”
* K ♦ •
Horoscopes Unlimited. —A typescript put out
by the U.S. State Department research branch
dealing with “international information and
cultural affairs” gives some staggering figures
on the great American astrology industry. The
U.S. has some 25,000 practising astrologers;
700 of them the top dogs, or top Pisces, or
Tauruses, or Leos, or Virgos, or Geminis, or
whatever. About 200 daily newspapers print
daily horoscopes “written by outstanding
astrologers and widely syndicated.” Papers
carrying horoscopes reach about 22,500,000
people; as well, there are “numberous” astro-
logical magazines, five of the leading ones
running to a combined circulation of close on
a million. The “Moon Sign Book,” an astro-
logical annual, has sold over a million copies
of an edition at a dollar a copy. “There are,”
says the State Department authority, “no
statistics available on the number of individual
mass-produced horoscopes sold for 10 cents
or a quarter in 10-cent stores and drug-stores,
throughout the country or of the number sent
through the mails by mail-order astrology
firms.”
* * * #
Explanation of Yalta. —For what it may be
worth, a “quite secret story, current in official
quarters, as to the nature of the Yalta con-
ference,” as related by the N.Y. “Journal-
American” staff writer Paul Mallon: “Mr.
Roosevelt is supposed to have been somewhat
ill, as was also Mr. Churchill. It was once
said Mr. Roosevelt forgot to have a copy made
of the Yalta Agreements, and a Government
official once told me the agreement at Yalta
was recorded in American files only by certain
personal notes of James Byrnes (then an un-
official adviser) which he made for his own
use and placed in the safe at his home. Once
Byrnes is supposed to have been sent to his
South Carolina residence hurriedly by Mr.
Roosevelt to find out what Mr. Roosevelt did
agree to at Yalta.”
* * * *
Western Germany Combine. —Commenting on
the failure of the four occupying Powers to
agree on running Germany together as one
concern, and supporting the plans for improving
the U.S.-British merger and bringing France
into it, N.Y. “Daily News” contends that Ger-
many should be enabled as soon as possible to
start .buying food by selling manufactured goods
to other nations: “If Stalin Raises any objec-
tions, as he may, the Western Allies should tell
him to put up or shut up—become reasonable
and honest about a final peace for Germany,
or keep Eastern Germany and see how far he
can get with it. Judging from way the
Russians are still starving and scratching along,
almost 30 years after the Communist revolution
in Russia, he won’t be able to get very far.
In doing all this, the Western Allies would not
be acting out of any sob-sister pity for the
Germans. The object would be the cold and
businesslike one of taking some of the present
crushing loads off American, British and
French —especially American —taxpayers.” The
suggested action is now under way.
* if * *
Security First. —About the soundest com-
ment so far read regarding Uncle Sam’s step-
ping into Greece and giving Turkey aid
appeared in the “Saturday Evening Post”:
“Support for Greece and Turkey is not a
reward for their qualities as liberals, but is
offered because geography makes Greece and
Turkey our babies in that part of the world.
The British Empire would not have lasted for
two hundred years if its leaders had got into
rows over the relative democracy of the Bey
of Tunis and the Khedive of Egypt. What the
British wanted to know was whether this or
that quaint character in a fez was their man.”
JF * ♦
V-ls from Submarines.— On the authority
of N.Y. “Times” military writer Hanson W.
Baldwin, “U.S. submarines operating off the
West Coast have successfully fired the German
robot flying-bomb, the V-l.”
« * * *
An American “Crisis” ?—-In published inter-
views, Stalin has mentioned reports, which he
seems to accept, of “an economic crisis break-
ing out in America,” meaning a depression.
Suggesting that a better understanding of
economic conditions in the U.S. could do much
to improve relations between Russia and that
country, N.Y. “Journal of Commerce” com-
ments : “A number of observers feel that Russia
will not agree to a settlement in Europe until
it becomes clear whether the United States will
continue to intervene actively in the affairs or
that continent or will return to her traditional
isolation. And a ‘crisis’ like that of 1929-32
could be the prelude to a withdrawal from
international commitments, the Russians are
reported to believe. In any event, it is logical
to suppose that the Russians would welcome
an economic setback that would weaken the
prestige of the United States.” The “Journal
proceeds to a little flaying, with salt to help:
“In terms of relative living standards, the
United States has never had a ‘crisis.’ Even
at the bottom of the depression of the ’3os,
unemployed in the U.S. enjoyed a higher stand-
ard of living than the average Russian employed
worker. Russia, on the other hand, has been
in a state of chronic crisis or depression in
terms of living standards for her people. This
holds true not only in the current post-war era,
but was so also in the late ’3os, when Russian
production of civilian goods reached its post-
revolutionary peak.”
* * * *
British Car Tax. —The force of necessity that
drives much in Britain these days has brought
about a change for which agitation had gone
on in vain over many years. Hitherto the
motor-car tax had been based on horsepower;
now it’s a flat rate per car. The effect of the
old tax was a concentration on small cars,
chiefly suitable for the home market. “Wall-
street Journal’s” London correspondent points
out the effect of the new tax: “Now that
autos are one of the main factors in Britain’s
export campaign, it will be essential to spur
mass production of higher-horsepower roomy
sedans suitable for the overseas market. At
the same time this will give the British motorist
something better than a highly-efficient toy auto
into which four people can barely be squeezed.
There will have to be a change, too, in the
layout of the industry. Some firms will have
to merge, since today there are 30 automakers
turning out various models —a luxury which
Britain can’t afford.” The correspondent de-
scribed the present tax as “the greatest step
in reviving the British motor-car industry in
a generation.”


Grinnell
Fire Protection
*
wmma
m
m
if.' , I
w
W
'1
.
-< S;
m
• •: •
sS?
i
■ j
m
Planned by Wormald Brothers
as a blended part of your
building’s design
To-day s architect makes provision for
Sprinkler fire protection whilst your build-
ing is still 'on the board’. Only this way
can it become a blended part of a new
building’s functional design.
Wormald Brothers’ Engineers are
thoroughly familiar with fire protection-
problems in modern buildings. With the
Woimald background of 60 years’ experi-
ence in fire protection, they are in a position
to solve the difficulties that may arise in all
types of building layout.
“Grinneir Automatic Sprinkler System
is designed to meet every building
requirement. . . industrial, commercial and
institutional.
Wormald Brothers maintain a complete
Fire Protection Engineering Service at all
branches in Australia and New Zealand.
-
&
J /
6RIMJL
automatic sprinkler and fire alarm systems
WORMALD BROTHERS PTY. LTD. ( i nc . in N .s.w.)
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
y y, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Darwin, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Wellington, Christchurch, Auckland.


The Bulletin
Vol, 68 —No. 3520
Wednesday, July 30, 1947
THE OLD DUTCH CLEANSER ON THE JOB AGAIN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U597L
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
IN 1937 AND 1947.
Reading or listening these days to what
is called “headline news,” one can easily
imagine oneself back in 1937 or 1938.
From the subjects then uppermost only
Hitler, Mussolini and their surrounding
characters —Ciano and “Edda,” Goring,
Ribbentrop, Goebbels and the rest —are,
of necessity, missing. Their countries
still occupy the minds of correspondents
and commentators, along with Spain,
Portugal, France, Austria, Hungary,
Czechoslovakia, Poland, Albania, Greece,
Japan and (of course) Russia —all “head-
line news” ten years ago, as was Euro-
pean Jewry, then alleged to hate the
Nazis and love the British, and now dis-
sembling its love in all sorts of violent
ways which the Nazis were spared.
In quarters: from which “headline
news” is drawn there is even an occa-
sional mention of Abyssinia, though in
no sentimental vein. Abyssinia, it seems,
is now infested with Soviet agents, and
with an “historic mission,” which is to
grab Eritrea, Italian Somaliland and
part of the Sudan--that is, if Britain
weakens and if Haile Silassie can beat
Farouk to the part of the Sudan that he
covets. Mr. Eric Baume, of “Terewth”
and the “Daily Mirror,” somewhat de-
jected nowadays, notes that “the Eritrean
people do not wish to join the Ethiopians,
as the rule of Haile is harsh, and he is
concerned with maintaining a dictator-
ship.”
Of late his predilection for Soviet methods
has caused real concern in England, which
saved him during the bad years. But the
Russians are gaining much influence in
Ethiopia through an organisation known
as the League for the Union of Ethiopia
and Eritrea, which, financed by the Russians
from Addis Ababa, has many Communist
affiliations in Britain.
And the baser sort of picture-paper
which, ten years ago, was never happier
than when digging into dirt for “reli-
able” stories about “Edda” and her
alleged amours has found a new
Wicked Fascist Woman in the wife of
Argentina’s leader, Peron. In the result
that aspersed lady, rather than make a
holiday for muckrakers and hooting
Communist mobs, cancelled a projected
visit to London that might have been
of service to Britain in its relations
with a country from which, in its food
emergency, it draws huge supplies, and
which made a free gift of beef to every
man, woman and child in the U.K.
Of the 1937-38 targets for invective
Franco alone remains, and in the change
that has come over the foreign scene the
Stunt Press could scarcely do without
him. When stuck for a subject it i%
variably heaves rocks at Franco. His
position has been strengthened by its
periodical attacks on him, in which
U.N.O. joined in its feckless fashion, as
was shown when he put his position as
head of the Spanish State, with rever-
sion to the monarchy when he goes to
his account, to a plebiscite and got a
prodigious majority. The Stunt Press
explanation of this nasty development
was that he had rigged and counted the
votes. If so, he was only following the
Soviet model, as he did in reverse when
he tackled the Reds at their own gory
game of revolution and whipped them.
Stunting newspapers professed to be
astonished when the Paris conference on
the Marshall plan for Europe was con-
demned at the same time from Madrid
and Moscow. Even one of their boy-
reporters should have learned enough
from history—particularly the history
of the French Revolution, with its alli-
ance of Bourbonists and Jacobins against
the Directory—to be prepared for the
conjunction of opposites, of dictatorships
of the Right and Left, in Europe allied
as recently as August, 1939, and from
then to June, 1941. Extremes meet.
Another survival from 1937-38 is the
Red International Brigade, to the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” in those days “the
greatest fighting force the world has ever
seen” and made up wholly of romantic
figures, the girls being all ravishingly
beautiful. Shod with new Soviet running
shoes, the Red International Brigade has
made a furtive appearance on the Greek-
Albanian frontier, and this prompted one
of those “columnists” to recall that “the
brigaders”—as one of their “Australian”
recruits called them —“helped to defend
Madrid for 2\ years, but weren’t numer-
ous enough to prevent Franco’s victory.”
They numbered about 25,000. Franco
made the [R.JI.B. a pretext for using
120,000 Moors and some 150,000 Italians,
Germans and Portuguese. Such a staid
emotionless oracle as the Encyclopedia
Britannica devotes two pages to the Spanish
civil war without describing the role of
Moors, Italians or Germans.
Obviously because the Encyclopedia
is “a staid emotionless oracle,” con-
cerned with facts and not with lying
Communist propaganda, swallowed hook,
line and sinker by Leftist simpletons.
But it has placed on record incidents of
the “Loyalist” period of ascendancy
which the columnist did not quote;
During, the first four months of Popular-
front rule there were 113 general strikes
and 218 partial strikes. A hundred and
seventy churches, 69 clubs and the offices
of 10 newspapers were set on fire, and
attempts made to burn 284 other buildings,
251 of them churches.
Especially in its early stages, the war was
marked by a ruthlessness on both sides
which astounded Europe. Not lanly were
churches burned or desecrated and public
religious observances forbidden throughout
republican Spain, but 10 bishops and many
thousands of priests, religious and devout
lay folk were murdered, for no particular
activity or crime, in cold blood. On the
other hand, mass executions were ordered
by the Nationalists {e.g., in Badajoz), and
Guernica was subjected to terroristic air
bombing.
According to the columnist “one of
the battalion colonels of the [R.JI.B. in
Spain was Joseph Broz, now better
known as Marshal Tito.” It is question-
able whether Broz, alias Tito, ever did
any fighting against men in Spain
or anywhere else (he never had arms in
his hands when photographed, as he
was by the acre, in the illustrated press,
generally with girls, dogs and chess-
players), but he has certainly extended
to Yugoslavia the butcheries committed
by the Reds in Spain. The English
Cardinal Griffin has' prepared an indict-
ment of Broz-Tito’s “crimes against
humanity”;
In 1939 there were 1916 parish priests
in Yugoslavia. Now there are fewer than
400. Two hundred priests, three vicars-
general and an archbishop have been im-
prisoned. A hundred and eighty-six
priests have been put to death with-
.out trial. Thirty-two have been sen-
tenced to death and executed, 85 sentenced
to imprisonment for life and 409 exiled.
The rest are in prison or unaccounted for.
Many churches have been closed and used
for the storage of grain. Sermons have
been interrupted with insults and attacks
made on priests. Freedom of the press
there is none, and all Catholic printing
presses have been confiscated. In Yugo-
slavia it is impossible to print a prayer
book, catechism or Bible.
Yet for upwards of two years the
authors of tijese atrocities have been
fed by Christian nations, diverting
from their own oppressed Christians
the U.N.R.R.A. food intended for
impartial distribution, and attributing the
gifts' to Russia, itself fed by Christian
nations. And Tito and his ruffians have
presented insolent demands for continu-
ance of this charity.
In 1938 Czechoslovakia had first
place in the hearts of a host of editors,
even in these parts. The editors of the
two Sydney morning papers sternly re-
solved that Australia should go to war
for the synthetic republic, composed as
it was then of Czechs, Slovaks, Hun-
garians, Poles, Jews and Sudeten Ger-
mans, all sundered by violent animosities.
Though Australia’s contribution to the
struggle, from which the “dotard”
Chamberlain recoiled, would have
amounted to a few Wirraways and a few
thousand militia boys, could they have
been conveyed to the scene of action,
the little editors did not hesitate. They
recently had fo announce that the Prague
Government, to the bitter indignation of
the Slovaks, had refused an invitation to
the Marshall-plan conference on the
ground that “participation would be in-
terpreted as an act directed against
Czechoslovakia’s friendship with the
Soviet and its other allies,”
Czechoslovakia has for Prime Minister
a creeping creature who was summoned
to Moscow and given his instructions.
At a Communist-party conference in
London, which “Australians” attended,
it was stated that there are a million
Communists in Czechoslovakia, more
than in any other country in the Com-
munist stable; more, indeed, than in
Poland and Bulgaria combined. The
Chifley Government is letting this Slav
(or slave) State have large quantities of
wool on tick. If it remains under Com-
munist despotism, and if Moscow gives
the order, the wool will never be paid for.
Yet it is by no means certain that
Czechoslovakia or any other country
drawn into the new Slav empire will re-
main under Communist despotism. In
all these countries, Czechoslovakia,
Poland, Yugoslavia, Rumania and Bul-
garia, there are notoriously millions of
people who hate Communism and Russia,
and who have family ties with millions
cf A mer * cans > immigrants from
Slav Europe in the present generation or
the test. It must have come as a
dreadful shock to these people in their
terrible condition to have been dragged by
Moscow into a sullen refusal of Ameri-
can aid; and the sense of injury is not
likely ,to disappear. Beyond doubt it has
aroused angry speculation as to Moscow’s
reasons for ordering, the rejection of a
generous offer, addressed to Russia as well
as to its Slav satellites and the Western
European countries, and as to why Russia
alone objected to disclosing the facts of
its internal situation. The sense of injury
may last until Stalin dies and there
ensues the inevitable struggle for the suc-
cession, whereupon the Mighty U.S.S.R.
may itself break up. In its 1941-42
extremity the Mighty U.S.S.R. invoked
the principle of nationality, which is apt
to be fatal to gimcrack empires, com-
posed for the most part of conquered
races, especially when the emperor or
dictator—Attila or Jenghis Khan, Tamer-
lane or Stalin —goes the way of all flesh.
The R.N. and Australia.
Sydney’s welcome to the British Royal
Naval Squadron which arrived on July
24, under command of Rear-Admiral
Creasy, was lukewarm compared with the
reception given to the Atlantic Fleet in
1924. Friends of war-time visitors loitered
on the wharves; but, in spite of the
whooped-up rubbish of the evening
papers, the ships as they entered the
Harbor received little attention.
The Royal Navy is not guiltless of
blame for the change of attitude, for it
showed an unduly modest silence about
its services in the Japanese war. There
are still people in Australia who believe
that the United States fought the Jap-
anese single-handed at sea, and that the
British turned up at the last moment and
were rather an encumbrance than other-
wise.
Unknown to the mass of Australians is
the fact that, after the fall of Singapore,
grievous as were their losses in that cam-
paign, the British had the strongest naval
force in the Australian region, and beat
off the attempted Japanese invasion of
Ceylon, then garrisoned by the Middle
East veterans of our Sixth Division,
which achievement, as General Eisen-
hower has recorded, was a turning point
in the war. And most Australians are
unaware that the division of naval forces
after Pearl Harbor was a matter of
arrangement, under which Britain under-
took the lion’s share of the job in
the Atlantic, the Mediterranean and the
Indian Ocean, and the Americans were
given what proved the weakest enemy
zone, the Pacific. In that zone sub-
marines were only a feeble menace, and
in it there were no such problems as the
succoring of an imminently-threatened
Russia, the policing of routes close to the
major bases for impending European
land operations and the maintenance of
control of the Mediterranean routes,
apart from the actual battle operations of
which British ships were the key.
It is little understood that had it not
been for British control of the Atlantic
and British sea transport, which had such
ships as the Queen Mary and the Queen
Elizabeth available, there could have
been no effective American expeditionary
forces in Europe in time for the 1943
operations; that there would have been
no Alamein but for British seapower, nor
any landing in France till long after it
actually took place, when it might have
been too late.
It is also a delusion that the opera-
tions against Japan made those in Europe
negligible. Actually the Pacific war was
inconsiderable compared with that carried
on under.the hands of Admirals Cun-
ningham and Bertram Ramsay, whose
Assistant Chief-of-Staff was Admiral
Creasy, our current visitor. The Pacific
saw nothing to match the cross-Channel
invasion. In that vast operation 5000
ships were swept in by 200 mine-
sweepers, and in the first 28 days put
ashore 1,000,000 men, 180,000 vehicles
and 3,000,000 tons of war supplies and
harbor-building material, under cover of
800 naval guns, the material being in-
creased to 4,000,000 tons and the men to
2,200,000 within three months.
Further, it is known to compara-
tively few that from the end of
1943 onwards the whole west and
north-west of Australia was almost
entirely under Royal Navy protection, or
that weary men who had been four years
at sea and weary ships which had been
battered again and again in famous
fights were made available for service
against the Japanese the moment they
could be spared from the European
zone. Thus vessels like the Nelson—one
of the two heaviest-gunjned in the world,
even at the end of the war—Howe and
Valiant, which had been at Salerno cover-
ing the Allied landings in Italy, were
hastened to the Indian Ocean as soon as
they were fit to start, along with
great aircraft-carriers, to batter major
Japanese bases. British submarines were
released in shoals for Far Eastern duty
and did deadly execution which has been
little heard of, mainly in what the Jap-
anese had believed fondly a few months
before to be closed waters.
In one 1945 communique alone the
Admiralty mentioned the names of 10
submarine commanders who had amor,
them recendy sunk 32 Japanese ship
The little Tallyho, in 61,000 miles o'
voyaging, under command of Lieut
Commander L. W. A. Benninston
D. 5.0., D.S.C., in 18 months
5000-ton Jap cruiser, a 1000-ton esco -
vessel, a submarine, a submarine-chuer
and 17 other vessels up to 6000 tom
some m the Malacca Strait, which can
be reached from Australia by plane ic a
few hours.
Britain enlisted more than 1,000,000
men and women in the Royal Navy; and
there were 73,000 casualties. British losses
in ships were five battleships (of the 1939
total, 33 per cent.), 31 cruisers (61 per
cent.), five aircraft-carriers (71 per cent)
148 destroyers (90 per cent.) and 77 sub-
marines (150 per cent.). Yet Britain
finished with a far stronger naval force
than that with which she began the war,
this including, beside her original quota
of battleships, squadrons much streng-
thened in hitting and defensive power,
67 aircraft-carriers of various types and
powerful trade-route defence squadrons,
including nearly 300 destroyers and 130
submarines.
As much of that naval strength as con-
dition's permit Britain will be forced to
maintain, not only for'the security of the
United Kingdom but for that of the
Dominions, of which Australia is the
most copious in advice and exposition
and the most dangerously placed, in view
of the condition of Asiatic politics.
The Commonwealth Government
knows this if its wandering Minister of
Defence, Mr. Dedman, may be believed.
In the statement which he issued just be-
fore Parliament closed —too late, of
•course, to admit of its being debated—he
declared that “Australian experience in
the recent war demonstrated the funda-
mental importance of seapower to our
defence.”
Having said that and much more in
the same strain, the Australian Govern-
ment has had the impudence to put for-
ward, as a programme for “building up
a balanced force over a period of years
which will be capable of operating as an
independent force, backed by shore
establishments for its maintenance,” a
silly and dishonest scheme for the pro-
vision of two small carriers—they will be
obsolete in five years—two cruisers and
six destroyers, some of which were pro-
nounced undergunned and feeble by
Admiral Tovey, formerly in command
of the Home Fleet, several months ago.
This force will remain “independent”—
when and if completed, and if men are
available to man it under the present
wretched conditions of pay and pension—
so long as it has no other duties than
carrying round Ministers and their wives,
in which two naval vessels are now en-
gaged. But if it meets in toughish weather
at night—when carriers are “sitting birds”
—even a third-class battleship or a couple
of air-covered heavy cruisers of the new
U.S. types, which are to be armed with
cartridge-loading eight-inch guns in triple
turrets, it will not only cease to be in-
dependent but will cease to exist alto-
gether. The programme merely serves
notice on the United Kingdom that it is
to remain responsible for Australia's
naval protection.
This country greatly needs a far-seeing
public opinion on defence, and its Gov-
ernment, above all, needs a sense of
decency and security calculated to impel
it to recognise that its demands for
recognition as a “world Power” .carry
obligations to behave like a world Power,
and thus to shoulder its fair share of
British Commonwealth defence.
As it is, this Government claims all
privileges without responsibility, and
exercises them in a spirit of bravado
which becomes morfe dangerous every
year as its policies become more and more
dominated by Communist leaders of
trade-unions. A country which claims
independence of action within the British
Commonwealth, which diverges from the
concerted policies of that Commonwealth
as a whole and which picks its own
quarrels irrespective of other Common-
wealth interests should either have a
strong care of its own independent de-
fence or pull its weight in the communal
defence to an extent which will ensure
help for it in tima of need.
No country which treats friendly
neighbors land loyal allies as the Dutch
are being treated by sections of the Aus-
tralian people, with the “Government’s”
connivance—their soldiers and flag
hooted at the wharves, their ships held
up, their commerce destroyed, their very
mail services included in the Communist
declaration of war on them, their Sydney
Consulate besieged by a shouting and
threatening mob in what a police superin-
tendent described as “the worst and most
disgraceful riot for years”—no country in
which “Labor” Ministers are silent and
scared spectators of mounting sedition at
home while playing at foreign politics
abroad should allow itself to continue to
be undefended navally, or its people to
remain indifferent to naval defence.
There is no danger from the Dutch;
but there are others in the Asiatic zone
not so patient or polite.


PLAIN ENGLISH
To Our Credit.
The spontaneous and continuous' efforts
jof all classes and creeds to send food
to Britain is a splendid example of Aus-
tralian generosity. High and low, rich
and poor alike have for nearly two years
combined in a grand voluntary wave
of giving. The British people have ex-
pressed their gratitude in thousands of
letters, and it has been personally con-
veyed by, among others, the officers and
men of the visiting squadron.
Perhaps the British v attitude is best
summed up by Victor Lewis, a London
“Daily Graphic” reporter who came
here with the cricketers last summer:
From Perth to Adelaide, through Vic-
toria, South Australia, New South Wales,
up into Queensland and down into 1 as-
mania there is a magnificent desire by the
ordinary people of the Commonwealth to
help—in a practical way—some family in
that land which they refuse to call any-
thing but “Home,” though they may never
have seen it.
Mr, Lewis goes on to tell of how
everywhere he went —and he was in Aus-
tralia six months—he was stopped by
people asking him for addresses to
which they could send food.
Complete strangers would wander on to
a cricket ground and say to Edrich or
Compton or Hutton “I will send a parcel
home for every run you score.” And they
did The day of the last Test in Syd-
ney one man promised a parcel for every
run. He kept his promise. He raised the
money amongst his friends and “Home
went 933 parcels. . , _ „
This is not a Government-organised effort
to feed another country. This is humanity
on the highest level—the spontaneous wish
of one man to help his brother You
need to live and walk and play among
these people to see the extent of their
personal effort |ind the depth of their
sympathy.
“Not a Government-organised effort.”
Well, no! Though the Prime Minister
belatedly found it necessary to speak up
for Britain—at Mackay he said “Britain’s
fundamental problems are of deep con-
cern to Australia; help must be given
by Australia as quickly and effectively
as possible”—he acquiesced in his
Food Controller Murphy and his
Minister Dedman publicly opposing the
Food for Britain movement when
launched
And though the “Daily Graphic”
writer reminded his readers that the par-
cels came post-free to them, P.M.G.
Cameron, announcing a departmental in-
come of £30,000,000 for last year, men-
tioned happily that an increase of
£821,874 in postal revenue was “stimu-
lated to a large extent” by postage on
Food for Britain parcels —2,850,000 sent
in 1946-47 as the people’s answer to
Messrs. Murphy and Dedman.
It never occurred to Mr. Cameron to
offer a reduced postal rate on the par-
cels. Generous ideas of that nature
simply don’t occur to this “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernment.”
The Communists, carrying out Mos-
cow orders to work for a split between
Britain arid America, suddenly began a
Food for Britain scheme of their own,
having for 19 or 20 months ignored
what other people were doing. And some
worthy souls have been taken in by the
stunt, though none should be.
Commonwealth Government neglect
and antagonism and Communist postur-
ings apart, Australians who are not Com-
munists have achieved a noble national
effort in sending food to Britain, and it
will go on.
Blair Athol Again.
Blair Athol, the enormous coalfield in
Queensland, has become politics, worse
luck! For weeks pressmen, private per-
sons and the State Opposition have tried
to get Premier Hanlon to say something
about it. When Mr. Pie (Q.P.P.) said
Mr. Hanlon had offered Mr. Playford
Blair Athol coal in large quantities Mr.
Hanlon said Mr. Pie was just “making
it up.”
Promptly arose Mr. Wanstall (Q.P.P.)
with the declaration that he was Mr. Pie’s
informant and that it was not in his
nature to make anything up.
Only a week ago I had a personal inter-
view in Adelaide with Mr. Playford. He
told me he had been approached by a Mr.
Hirst, and had been offered Blair Athol
coal in virtually unlimited quantities, de-
liveries to begin in a few years. Mr.
Hirst also told Mr. Playford his company
had been granted concessions to exploit the
field and a franchise for the building of a
railway to the coast.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” came in with
statements that Mr. Hirst —T. J. Hirst —
represented the Electric Supply Corpora-
tion, London, and visited Blair Athol
last February, and that as a result of
“negotiations with the State Govern-
ment,” plans for coal production “on a
large scale” would soon be published.
Meantime, Mr. Pie put it out that he
believed the Prime Minister’s visit to
Mackay was connected with Blair Athol.
In reply to a question the P.M. said “the
next move on Blair Athol is up to Mr.
Hanlon,” and “Mr. Hanlon has outlined
certain plans which I am not at liberty
to disclose.” Mr. Hanlon, for his part,
refused to disclose them.
It’s all very dark and mysterious, but
if anybody is laughing up his sleeve it’s
pretty sure to be Mr. Playford.
Back in Circulation.
Essay on the crime-doesn’t-pay theme:
The burly fellow whom Perth (W.A.) knew
as Louis Brandei and Sydney and neighboring
parts as Woolcott Forbes —many non-
bookmaker inhabitants to their sorrow —is out
and about again, well-dressed, well-housed,
with whisky on the sideboard, secretary
engaged, office provided and “marvellous oppor-
tunities” in prospect “in the- financial world
of Sydney.”
So at least it is gathered from one the
Sydney papers, which found the hero in ‘ per-
fect health” and apparently full of everything
except repentance. Cased in “a blue dressing
gown and pyjamas,” and lording it in a
Bellevue Gardens flat decorated with streamers
and posters bearing welcome signs,” he offered
the scribe “a whisky to toast his release” and
referred briefly to prison experiences, which,
apart from the trifling annoyance of detention,
were agreeable (“I left with a spirit of goodwill
from everybody”), turning then to the marvel-
lous opportunities available, particularly in the
field of “secondary industry.” Here perhaps
bookmakers to whom Brandei, alias Forbes, lost
a lot of his tainted money, and who disgorged
a bit of it to pay for his defence, will help.
“I have a few friends with whom I will discuss
the matter,” he volunteered; but beyond men-
tioning that he would “operate from a Sydney
solicitor’s office,” he didn’t give the names,
addresses or brands of the “friends.”
It was at the end of March, 1944, that
Brandei-Forbes was found guilty of “having
NOTHING UNDER FIFTY.
“Reversing a recent decision, Mr. Calwell indicated in Europe that older women
immigrants were considered desirable, since they would not flood the Australian marriage
market.”
“Young ’un, eh? Sorry—you're out!"
forged, uttered' and falsified share certificates
in Producers and General Finance” and sen-
tenced to five years. So he was incarcerated tor
a mere three years and four months, and that
in a comfortable jail with mod. cons. He
slept between sheets, his duties were light
(he was in the dispensary) and his ‘ oppor-
tunities” for study—of “financial journals
from all over the world,” subscribed to ‘with
most of my prison earnings of 2s. 6d. a
week” —were unrestricted. At the trial he had
spat venom at the Judge and his
Honor’s summing-up and sentence with the
justice given me in that truly great democracy,
the United States.”
In the light of the ruffian’s early release and
the spirit in which he took it another com-
parison could be made, though not by him.
In the U.S.A. Brandei-Forbes got five years
for fraud. After sentence was passed the
prosecuting attorney said: —
Forbes specialised in selling worthless
securities, chiefly to widows. Occasionally
he would suggest marriage in order to
complete the sale. One victim in Phila-
delphia was dying of cancer and his wife
was suffering from a paralytic stroke when
Forbes took 8000 dollars from them and
left them penniless. Another victim, an
aged widow, had 35,000 dollars. She
bought 30,000 dollars-worth of fake stock
from Forbes and is now dependent on the
charity of friends.
In the early proceedings bail was asked for
and the District Attorney suggested that it
should be fixed at 100,000 dollars—ns it was.
The District Attorney said: —
I have received a request from the Aus-
tralian legation for accused’s extradition.
I shall comply with this request as soon as
possible, but under the terms of the ex-
tradition treaty we are entitled to try him
here first. The Australian police caught
up with Forbes at Bombay, but he
escaped to England. There he gave com-
pletely false particulars of his birth and
name, and, obtaining a British passport,
went to Canada, where he is “wanted.”
It was as obvious then as it is now that
the man should have been left in America
to get his deserts in that continent. But
“Labor” wanted him back —perhaps because it
was thought that he would blab about his
relations with the U.A.P., though he didn’t—
and now he is at large again, insufficiently
punished and impenitent. His victims? They
don’t matter.
Foot-and-mouth Disease.
Having abandoned the idea of bringing
out thousands of Britons, if he ever enter-
tained it—hordes of ‘‘displaced persons
are to be substituted—Mr. Calwell spoke
a mouthful to British press correspond-
ents over the failure of his personal-
appearance tour, except among the dis-
placed persons”:
My job is to educate Australians that, if
they will not take Europeans now, they will
take Japanese later on, whether they like
it or not.
Educated Australians were preaching
this when Mr. Calwell’s party was
howling “No migrants) until every Aus-
tralian has a job,” and encouraging its
members to despise British immigrants as
“Pommies,” and when a section of it was
prepared to let the Japs have all the iron
ore they could get from Yampi.
Mr. Calwell deplored that in Britain
“it is not the custom to make snap
decisions as we do in Australia.
In Australia! Snap decisions from a
Cabinet whose stock reply when a de-
cision is called for is “It’s a matter
for” anyone or anything to whom
or to which the buck can be passed or
“I’ll call for a report”!
Looking around for another point on
which to register his disapproval of
Britain this startling Minister of Misin-
formation observed that he “had seen
in England some land under grass and
not growing the food supposed to be so
badly needed.” It is almost incredible
that even a Calwell should mouth such
an imbecility. The U.K. pastures some-
thing like 9,000,000 cattle and 25,000,000
sheep, at the same time finding space to
grow more wheat than our biggest wheat-
growing State. And Britain’s most press-
ing food need is fresh meat, the present
ration scale permitting about two chops
a week. Of course it wouldn’t occur to
Mr. Calwell that grass is eaten by cows
and sheep.
The Two Macs.
There is no visible end to the troubles
encompassing and looming up for the
Sydney “‘Labor’ Government.”
For the worst of the troubles the 40-
hour-week legislation, fraught as it is with
possibilities of strikes in all quarters, as
well as a wholesale lowering of produc-
tion —staggering in its inadequacy when
the working week, except for coalminers,
ran to 44 hours —Mr. McGirr was prin-
cipally responsible; but Mr. McKell left
him legacies loaded with dynamite.
As a result of his 40-hour week, Mr.
McGirr has already had to deal with a
strike in the Government dockyard at
Newcastle, settled by his Minister Cahill
by dint of an agonised appeal to the
strikers —“For God’s sake, boys, keep
going till 10 minutes after four, at least
for a month.” He has had to listen in
silence to comments by Chief Arbitra-
tion Judge Drake-Brockman, whose
Court is struggling with the case for
a general 40-hour week, on “the dread-
ful position” he has “produced.” And
what is quaintly styled a “vigorous”
movement for no Saturday work —ex-
cept, of course, for capitalists like dairy-
and poultry-farmers—is in progress.
As if all this wasn’t enough, there has
been the devil to pay in “that good and
useful sport dogracing,” the immortal
tribute of Mr. Baddeley.
Owners and trainers of hounds that
earn their beefsteak by chasing the tin
hare, the owners and trainers following
the dough, boycotted the club at Gosford
and other clubs, one in Mr. Baddeley s
electorate, with Gosford. The
“dispute” spread into “the biggest breach
in the history of the ‘sport,’ ” and a
heart-cry came from Mr. Baddeley:
It looks as if this matter will seriously
affect greyhound racing. I shall see what I
can do to break the deadlock.
One grievance of the tin-hare brother-
hood is that, under a McKell law or
direction, part of the profits on dog-
racing have to be appropriated to trot-
ting. Gosford, it is complained, “hasn’t
spent a penny on greyhound-racing im-
provements, and even now at the dog
track is building stables for trotters.”
Many houseless servicemen would like
to have the material for those trotting
stables and would even be willing to
doss in the stables if nothing else turns
up ; but that is another story. The Gos-
ford example has been widely followed:
The N.S.W. Trotting Club has £75,000
out of dogracing, and has everything ready
for night trotting.
Legalisation of night trotting was an-
other election bribe, supplementing
“Labor’s” cultural gift of Sunday foot-
ball, with booze and betting and the roar-
ing of mobs which assails the ears of
all the hospital patients in the neighbor-
hood. Mr. McKell breeds and races—
or bred and raced —trotters.
Mr. McKell was also the legislative
founder and chief patron of the Sydney
Turf Club, a National Undertaking which
occupied him during many bad months
of the Japanese war. Great powers of
racecourse resumption were vested in
the Sydney Turf Club, and when Lord
Nuffield, buying the Victoria Park race-
course, found that it was subject to the
club’s “training rights,” he abruptly
altered his plans. There is still no
Nuffield factory at Victoria Park nor
any sign of one, the track being given
over to gents diffusing the romantic
aroma of loose-boxes and to horses in
training.
The Sydney Turf Club modestly pro-
posed to grab 200 acres of the Eastlakes
water reserve for a racecourse to “accom-
modate 120,000 people.” The matter had
to- go before the Water Board, whose
engineer-in-chief reported to it last week
that the proposed glorified gambling hell
would make an end of 100 bores, yield-
ing 6,000,000 to 8,000,000 gallons of
cheap water, send seven wool scours and
tanneries, to say nothing of golf courses,
into the discard and oblige the board to
spend half a million on a stormwater
channel. That should end the wicked
business, but it still has to be referred to
the Cumberland County Council, then to
Mr. Cahill, and then to Mr. McGirr.
Meantime it is adding to the McGirr
worries. *
Magistrates and Mugs.
Twice lately in Sydney Courts members
of the Fo'ce have taken exception to the
term “mug.” In the first case a man was
charged with using insulting words to
two constables, “Get off the road, you
mugs!” The magistrate dismissed the
charge without calling evidence for the
defence, remarking “You must not be as
thin-skinned as that. The police will be
pretty busy if they are to take action
every time they hear this expression.”
A few days later at least one member
of the public took this as a go-ahead sig-
nal for general abuse of the police. When
arrested for using indecent language he
told an officer “A law has been passed to
say I can call police ‘mugs’ and you
can’t do anything about it.” He was
knocked all of a heap when a second
magistrate said “For the use of the
language and the word ‘mug’ I fine you
£5.”
In the thieves’ jargon of Long Bay
graduates and of Sydney toughs training
to join the brotherhood no phrase is spat
out with more venom and hatred than
“mug copper,” and every policeman in
Sydney knows this from experience.
“Let him go, mug,” shout the larrikins to
a constable trying to take a lawbreaker
to the station. There is no stopping to
find out whether the arrested man de-
serves any sympathy. To the Sydney
larrikin any arrested man is a victim of
tyranny ; the Law is always wrong. And
if an unfortunate policeman is cornered
in some back alley and goes down under
weight of numbers, “Cop this, mug,”
snarls some cowardly thug, emboldened
by the presence of his pack, as he sinks
the boot into the prostrate man’s body.
With contempt for the Law becoming
more evident every day, it becomes ever
more important that the police in up-
holding the Law shall have the support
of the Law. Decisions and remarks like
those of Mr. Cookson, S.M., however
good their intention, have the effect of
undermining the authority and strength
of the Force. The second case quoted
should be sufficient evidence of this, and
it is commendable that Mr. Hawkins,
S.M., took specific pains to indicate that
he disagreed with the attitude of his
colleague.


•xXyX
m
OSS
i
8575
CRAVE NA
quality Is something you
can rely on -- always
k
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Harrison, deputy - leader of the
Opposition, “urged” Chifley to make a
“clear statement” of where Australia
stood in the Dutch-Indonesian business.
Surely the man knows that it isn’t a
platter for the Prime Minister. Aus-
tralia’s policy regarding “our Inder-
nesian comrades” was handed over to
the Communist bosses of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation nearly two
years ago. In the latest phase, along with
a boycott of Dutch shipping, intimida-
tion of tugboat men and savage threats
to port pilots, it has taken the form of
a refusal to carry mails —a civil-war
matter in America 86 years ago.
In the opening up of Lincoln’s “secret”
papers, 21 years after the death of his
son, Tad, a pithy addition to his known
views on the man and the State was an
early discovery:
In all that the people can individually
do as well for themselves Government
ought not to interfere.
It was published in Australia simultane-
ously with particulars of savage special
taxation of Australian airline companies
and groups of private operators, designed
to drive them out of business.
Not only in the Communist party, now
simulating a pro-British policy which
Moscow abandoned months ago, is the
liaison work rotten. A day before Dr.
Evatt cast up at Tokyo posing as Every-
body’s Friend, his Mr. Macmahon Bawl
“made a sharp attack on the occupa-
tion” :
“If I seem critical it is not that Supreme
Headquarters does so little hut that it claims
so much,” he 'said. This statement was
made by Mr. Ball when he objected to
comparisons made by Mr. Atcheson
(U.S.A.) between agrarian reform in Japan
and Soviet Russia.
This was published in Melbourne for the
edification of “Age” readers —not in
Sydney, though the same news service
was available.
Longreach (Q.) sees a Prime Minister
once in a blue moon. The other day it
had a call from Chifley, and from his
august lips came this message: “Out of
the war everywhere has come a sense of
frustration, because people see no signs
of the new world they hoped for.” What,
not even a furtive gleam of a Golden
Age?
At Longreach Mr. Chifley told an
A.L.P. meeting that he was “con-
cerned about the economic position into
which the world is drifting.” Longreach
isn’t sufe whether this is to be taken as
a warning that it won’t get the great
Ward railway after all or as a threat to
a State which didn’t elect “Labor”
Senators last September.
A Colonial Sugar warning of a sum-
mer shortage in N. S. Wales because of
dearth of shipping, itself the consequence
of waterfront labor pranks in North
Queensland, was laughed at by Ashley, a
member of the “Government” whose
motto is “Join the ‘Labor’ party and see
the world.” Certainly there will be no
lack of “sugar” among N.S.W, “Labor”
politicians.
The 24 Federal “Labor” politicians
from N. S. Wales are now getting the
£5OO-p.a. increase they awarded them-
selves and pals last session; and at least
three of them (Ward, Amour and Daly)
are getting it with “accretions” coldly
mentioned in Lang’s “Century” in an
article on world tours:
In addition to salary, which goes on all
the time they are away, they draw 15
dollars a day for living expenses; Govern-
ment also foots the bills for hotel rooms
and all transport.
And the 53 “Labor” Assemblymen
are themselves after a £5OO-p.a. rise,
tacked on to the life pensions they
voted to retired or defeated Assembly-
men, after “service” in three or more
Parliaments, with reversion to widows.
Out of their “inadequate” £875 p.a.
these worthies paid into a party super-
annuation fund which has been distri-
buted among four defeated members,
£768 apiece. Two, Greig and O’Hal-
loran, collected the £768 and are on £5
a week for life as well!
Lay Attorney-General Gledson, speak-
ing at a “Labor” union meeting at Rock-
hampton, announced that his “Govern-
ment” was “considering” legislation for
obliging newspapers to give politicians
criticised in their columns the right of
reply and the same amount of space in
which to make it. He maintained that
those city slickers in the “Tory” press
were not treating our Nell right. But
the financial collapse of Queensland’s
“Labor” daily of former days shows
pretty clearly that the general run of
“Labor” supporters in the Hanlon State
don’t take any active interest in such
matters.
As was inevitable, the latest Evatt
stunt, suddenly dropped though it was,
is bringing us taunts from even well-
disposed American quarters. For ex-
ample, the mild New York “World Tele-
gram,” quoted in a Melbourne “Herald”
message, has “discussed the Australian
position with polite irony”:
Australians do not wish to be under the
shadow of General MacArthur’s powerful
personality. That is a far cry from March,
1942, when General MacArthur landed in
Australia and was hailed as a deliverer.
The “World Telegram” can rest assured
that the nation’s sentiments towards Mac-
Arthur have never changed. His only
critics are stunters and their instruments ;
his only attackers, Communists.
Like the party in the song who hadn’t
“seen a potato for munce and munce and
munce,” Australian farmers haven’t seen
any fencing wire, though their need for it
is urgent and their lack of it gets them
into trouble with pest-suppression
authorities. Still, any time they’re in
Sydney they can admire the nice new wire
crates in which bottled beer is delivered.
Not Truth nowadays but Booze is
mighty and will prevail.
Flight-Lieut. J. H, Smith’s bombing
plane was shot down over France. He
parachuted to safety, joined the French
resistance movement and gave it valuable
aid before getting through to England and
a Mosquito squadron. He is now A.D.C.
to Vice-King Billy McKell and has been
decorated with the Croix de Guerre in
Canberra by the Minister for France.
After which, perhaps, he and the Com-
mander-in-Chief swapped war stories.
In 10 months or so, the great American
parties will be choosing their candidates
for President. One thing is already cer-
tain ; unless Truman’s health fails, he
will be the unanimous choice of the
Democrats. In the history of Presiden-
tial politics there is no counterpart to
the rise of the old Doughboy from the
depths to the heights. He regained the
confidence of his people by standing up
to Lewis, and then to Stalin, and he
moved all their hearts by what he said
at the bedside of his mother, now dead:
When she wakes up, she wants to talk
to me; and I want to be here.
In a desperately mechanical age, one
touch of Nature still makes the whole
world kin.
Modern journalism has invented so-
called “columnists” and “diplomatic cor-
respondents” partly because they can be
used as kite-flyers and whipping boys.
Even little Sunday papers have their
“columnists” and “diplomatic correspon-
dents,” and a “diplomatic correspondent”
of the London “People” came out with
this fustian:
Stalin has ordered that Britain be offered
million tons of Russian grain between
now and 1950—a million tons in 1947,
H million in 1948 and two million in
1949 and 1950. The Russian move is aimed
at weakening American influence in Europe.
With this grain in prospect Britain can
threaten to cut its grain buying from the
U.S.A., bring down the price and compel
Washington to revise the Loan Agreement.
Sequel, published three days later:
After several weeks of negotiation trade
talks between Britain and Russia have
collapsed. The Russians quoted a wheat
price far higher than Britain is paying for
Canadian.
Probably because they have none to sell.
Yet, as the Statesman’s Year-Book testi-
fies, in Czarist times Russia was a regular
exporter of wheat to Britain. In 1910
British imports of Russian wheat were
valued at over £12,000,000 sterling.
A fact with a bearing on the Russian
narks’ refusal of the American-aid pro-
gramme is that Austria, Greece, Hungary,
Poland, Italy and Yugoslavia will all be
short of home-produced foodstuffs,
especially bread grains, till mid-October,
when the new harvest will come in. That
harvest may tide them over , the follow-
ing six months. The chief deficits are in
Yugoslavia (250,000 tons of grain), Italy
(170,000 tons) and Austria (100,000 tons);
Hungary’s shortage is 40,000 tons. In
Poland, Austria and Hungary, at least,
the Red Army is still living on the
country like locusts.
Calling Mr. Calwell:
In Leonora (W.A.) one Alexis Ichau, aged
62, who had been collecting for “the North
China Mission,” allegedly on behalf of the
Red Cross—he had over £5OO in his possession
when picked up—was lodged in the lock-up.
While in residence he damaged an enamel
mug, a mattress, a broom-handle and the wall
of the lock-up, and through the damaged wall
he made his escape. Blacktrackers located
him next day and he returned “home.” Apart
from biting a constable he did little damage
during the next day or two, except, perhaps,
to the ears of the neighbors. On July 11
Alexis appeared in court to answer a number
of charges, starting with unauthorised collect-
ing, and finishing with the damages mentioned.
The result was 255. fine, 425. costs, and 21-
months behind the bars. Alexis came to Aus-
tralia last December under one of Calv'eli's
six months “tourist permits.” Presumably
if he stays another two years and a bit he
will line up for the old-age pension.
Playford’s State gets along with half-a-
dozen Ministers. Other States use from
nine to 16, with N. S. Wales, of course,
topping the list. Federal “Labor” finds
“work” for 19, including five Defence
Ministers —one to every 10,000 or so
persons in uniform, clerks included. And
it was unable to consider the N.E.L busi-
ness at a Cabinet meeting, most of the
19 being “on tour,” with all expenses
paid.
The Victorian Cains expect to have
not 12 but 14 Ministers in the next few
months. Reasons are that Barry
(Minister of Health and Housing) has
crises on his hands in both departments
and that Slater is struggling with indif-
ferent health as well as the portfolios of
Chief Secretary, Solicitor-General and
Attorney-General. And there is Stone-
ham, who has Transport, Decentralisa-
tion and Development and a vice-presi-
dency of the Board of Land and Works
to attend to. There are also Ministers
Clarey of the A-C.T.U. and*Kennelly of
the A.L.P., but the divided functions of
these worthies are not mentioned in the
“Government’s” zeal for “reform.”
Perth item here received last week:
Gasworkers started a 44-hour week on
Thursday. At a meeting of the union that
night they decided that they would rather
go back to the 47-hour week.
After the receiver had been attended to
by the first-aid unit he looked at the
cutting a second time and saw that the
monstrops thing had happened in Perth,
Scotland.
From one in the middle of it:
Sydney dailies had a glorious field day with
what “S. M. Herald” in vast headlines de-
scribed as a “Wild Fight in the City.” To
me it was merely a matter of a few squealing
and pimply youths and shrieking damsels, some
with foreign accents, trying to raid the Dutch
Consulate. Even the encouragement of the
doughty Communist Roach, assistant-secretary
of the wharfies, who stood at a safe vantage
point guarded by a band of huskies, did not
put any real fire into the business. If Granny
calls that a wild fight I am glad its editor
was not present at the Black Friday riot in
Brisbane in 1912, the N.S.W. railway strike (1917)
or the Townsville railway or Brisbane Russian
riots of 1919. Police were warned in advance
and were there in force, and they handled
weedy Commos from the University and the
Eureka Youth League with a scornful gentle-
ness. Any two of them, on serious purpose
bent, could have set the lot running. If there
were 800 people present at the height of the
miserable display (including about 50 press
photographers and an 80 per cent, ingredient
of sideliners seeing the show), I’ll eat my
copy of Lenin’s works in 14 volumes.
With Amour for companion, Ward
turned up in Ireland and was reported
to have been appalled at the slums he
saw in the country of his ancestors. Next
month he will probably discover that he
has again been misreported and that his
remarks were meant to apply to the slums
of New Ireland, which, as Minister of
External Territories, he is in process of
freeing from white domination.
McKell doubtless regards with equa-
nimity the piercing plaints of a lady
union secretary, pride of the Hotel, Club
and Restaurant Employees, who finds
that as a consequence of the McKell
liquor law and referendum many of her
members employed in clubs are
threatened with the sack. On these and
other McKell matters McGirr has his
feelings. Still, if they overflowed
in a bitter protest to the Governor-
General and Commander-in-Chief, that
worthy could say “Damn you, Jimmy—
I’m all right.”
“Wun Bung Lung” on rice and royalty:
If Princess Elizabeth decided to get married
in Australia there’d be no rice at the wedding,
the Rice Association of Australia, which roosts
in “Suite 507-8-9, Cathcart House, Sydney,”
and has three telephone lines to keep it in touch
with the nearest riceficld (400 miles away by
rail), having announced that of the 56,000 tons
just harvested only hospitals, resident Asiatics
and “a few other priority users” will get any.
The rest is booked for Pacific Island natives,
there being “a time lag” in returning them to
their “home countries” after the war which
ended nearly two years ago. Still, “a few small
leakages of rice to the Australian public may
occur.” There are dark hints that some Asiatics
mightn’t like the stuff and might pass it on to
European friends, also that occasionally rice
is pinched and blackmarketed. None of which
explains why people who want to grow rice—in
Queensland, for instance —are not allowed to
do so or why the simple Asiatic who doesn’t
want it has it shoved at him. Anyhow, next
time an Asiatic disgustedly drops a bag of rice
on the doorstep see that it isn’t wasted on some-
body’s wedding. We’ve got to save for recon-
struction or something.
According to one of Sydney’s omni-
scient “columnists” “the brasshats” are
embarrassing Chambers, their Minister, by
referring “every little detail” for his deci-
sion. It must be a strain upon one whose
technical military knowledge is probably
such as to lead him to believe that a
corps is a patient who died in the chair
under laughing gas.
There’s no need to feel puzzled about
the delay in getting matters going on the
long-range rocket and guided-missile ex-
periment ground. The answer is to be
found in advertisements for applications
from research officers of high qualifica-
tions and wide experience. Maximum
salary offered is £l4OO. Twice the
amount, and more, is paid by big British
firms for analogous jobs.
“Chev.”: Two Melbourne “Argus”
items were interesting to students of road-
accident statistics, among whom Victorian
Ministers may be reckoned. One was the
reproduction of an English poster depict-
ing a sad-faced woman who has been
widowed byT a motor smash ; it is being
issued with a caption, “Keep Death oft
the Road,” by the Australian Road Safety
Council. Immediately under the thing
was a report of a 2400-mile car dash by
two Innisfail (N.Q.) businessmen to Mel-
bourne in a sports car. Their time, in-
cluding stops, was 68i hours, the journey
cost £7l, and one of them remarked that
the venture was a “sporting gesture” and
that he would never again try to drive so
far in so short a time. Because it would
be dangerous to children and old people
encountered on the way? No ; because
it takes too much out of the driver.


PILGRIM'S PROGRESS.
[A search for Navy Minister Riordan (Queensland), the Speaker (Queensland), the Senate President (Queensland) and members Daly and Amour
(overseas) would have been equally resultless.]


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“H.A.L.”; Every city seems to have
its specialty in the way of a dish. Adel-
aide’s piecarts originated the “floater”
—a meat pie in a soup-plate of boiled
peas. Put a dash of tomato sauce on it,
add a few drops of vinegar, with pepper
and salt to taste, and I wouldn’t ask for
a better supper on a cold night. Cost ?
Sixpence. All over Australia you meet
blokes who ask you where you come
from; if you say Adelaide and the
weather is cold, you can always tell if
they’ve been there themselves —they say,
“Gripes, I wouldn’t mind one of your
‘floaters’ right now! ” Port Pirie is famous
for a more elaborate dish. Workers
coming off shift at the Smelters used to
make for the nearest cafe and call for a
“sunflower,” adding the number of
“petals” they required. When the dish
arrived you’d find that it was a huge slab
of steak, served on an outsize plate, sur-
rounded by fried eggs to the number of
“petals” ordered. I once saw a long,
lean, stringy-looking toiler order a
“Double ‘sunflower’ with a dozen
‘petals’.” It arrived, and he scoffed the
lot.
* * * *
“Mike”: The species of lionising Mr.
“Woolcott Forbes” has received from
Sydney dailies reminds me of the time
that “financier” came, in an epistolary
form, into our prison camp. I was
doing solitary at the time, on bread and
water, in the efficient little prison-within-
a-prison the Third Reich main-
tained at Marburg, on the disputed
Austro - Yugoslav border. Mail, with
other comforts', was forbidden. But
doing my paces round the exercise
yard I was informed —in a tight-lipped
whisper—that a letter for me was waiting
under an empty Kiibel. Next time round
I lifted it. Then, exercise over, we were
locked in our separate cells. I started
to read the letter when a howl—our usual
method of communication —came from
cell next-but-one-on-the-left: “Anything
in the letter, Mike?” A hush followed.
I hastily scrambled through the family
news, and there it was: “Woolcott
Forbes” had been sentenced to* so many
years in Long Bay. At the top of my
lungs I communicated this intelligence
to my eager hearers. Then, from every
cell came a long-drawn, unanimous senti-
ment: “Lucky beggar!”
.* * * *
“Bo”: When I was a youth cows had
the quaint habit of yielding sufficient
milk, even through long droughts, to give
the populace of Sydney all it wanted.
Even when cow-cockies were gloomily
talking of walking off their holdings any
householder expecting visitors could
order an extra two pints with complete
confidence that it would be delivered in
the morning. Then came the Milk Board,
since when the public has been given the
blessings of periodic shortages’, their
occurrence getting more and more fre-
quent in proportion to the increase in the
herds, not of cows but of the bureaucrats
who “organise” the industry. The milko
of my youth was a carefree fellow who.
knowing the Jobkinses or the Wilsons got
a pint and a half, cheerfully slammed that
quantity or less into the billy on the front
step and whistled on his way. I came on
a milko the other morning. His brow
had sufficient corrugations to warrant
screwing his hat on, and he was sitting
in the gutter making calculations on the
back of a cigarette packet with a stub of
pfencil. I asked the reason of his mental
travail. He looked up. “Them scrangy
cows in the Milk Board have ordered
another cut o’ one-fourteenth in supplies
to householders. I’m tryin’ to work out
how much I’m to give the old girl in the
corner house —she usually gits three-
quarters of a pint! ”
* * * *
“Old Seventeenth”: As one of hun-
dreds of returned soldiers, I attended
the biggest funeral ever to leave the
Caulfield (Vic.) branch h.q. of the R.S.L.
It was the funeral of Dr. Bernard Garrett,
First A.1.F., who, for his untiring efforts
and for services to hundreds of returned
men and their families, will never be
forgotten by the Diggers and people
of Caulfield. His only son died in
the Second War, shot down in the
battle of Malta. No mention was
made in the daily press regarding Dr.
Garrett’s death or his unselfish services to
the community, but the death of an in-
ternational crook, who never served one
day in his country’s service and who
should never have been out of jail, had
two full columns describing his crimes.
As much or more space was given to an-
other non-starter who had just befen re-
leased after three years’ imprisonment.
* * * *
“G.M.”; Holidaying in Hobart, a
Sydneysider found it costly when he
“Baby’s showing promise at last—he just swallowed a safety-pin!”
opened his mouth to a newspaper-
reporter criticising Tasmanians for not
making full use of their most popular
summer-time beach in winter. Had
the beach been in Sydney, he boasted,
it would be thronged with “Ice-
bergers.” A Miss Australia quest
candidate offered to prove that Ho-
bartians! are not “sissies,” and ac-
cepted his challenge to go swimming for
£lO. With the temperature at 47 de-
grees and a snow-covered Mount Wel-
lington for a background, she went in
to the accompaniment of cheers from
the large crowd that had gathered to wit-
ness the event, and came out wet and
shivering, but smiling, to collect the
tenner.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Galloping about Europe in
search of candidates for his 70,000 immi-
grants a year, Calwell got into a
Parisian show and nearly fired the place
with his blushes when he sighted some
nude young women on the stage. Over-
come with embarrassment or shocked
modesty or something, he fled and later
confided to a bunch of reporters that
he’d “never thought he’d live to see such
things” and he “couldn’t imagine they
existed!” Nobody could charge Cal-
well with an oversupply of imagination ;
still the man must read something some-
times, and these days it’s pretty hard
to go through life without running across
references to the Folies Bergere and the
American “burlesque” shows. And I
can’t help wondering where the poor
man goes in the summer time if he has
never seen young females on Australian
beaches wearing so-called “swimsuits”
that are far more provocative than the
nudity of a French showgirl.
“Col M.”: I was standing on the foot-
path claiming some cosmic rays from a
patch of sunlight and admiring the pack-
age the chemist had made of my soap
and toothpaste by wrapping them in
some new type of shiny black paper. A
middle-aged gent, pulled up a few feet
away from me and with wild eyes
looked me up and down. Then he
started shouting: “Go on —be in it!
Snap me like all the rest! Would you
like this pose, or will I stand on my
head? Yaa-ar!” With that he ground
his teeth horribly and moved off into
the pedestrian stream, waving his arms
and muttering “Damn’ street-photo-
graphers everywhere—springing up like
mushrooms.” They are, too. On my
short hike back to work I struck 14.
* * * *
“Zake”: “Six Hurt in Milk Bar
Brawl,” my morning-paper heading told
me —which is no more than what 1 have
long been expecting. Too often have I
seen the evil leer on young men influ-
enced with chocolate ic-cream sodas, the
hopelessly depraved attitude of youths
staggering away from their stools in the
bar after having had a heady strawberry
milk shake as a chaser to a banana split
or a tutti frutti —always calculated to
arouse man’s baser instincts. One must
regretfully agree with the summing up of
a gentleman who, emerging from a
corner building, where he had been stand-
ing on one foot for about an hour,
passed one of these places and said, jerk-
ing his thumb at the imbibing going on,
“Blashted densh of iniq’ty, shash wha’
they are!”
* * * *
“Flip”: Be it “Stow in.... ” or
“Stow on the Wold” (B. 25/6/’47) —the
hamlet does possess a set of stocks, and
mention of them would have brought
a sigh from one Australian magistrate
if he were still alive. Probably the chief
reason that he isn’t was the colossal
fiend of a neighbor who once plagued
him. The Beak suffered patiently for
months, quietly searching his law books
for some offence on which he might nail
his tormentor. Hope came one Sunday
morniqg when the splashing of a hose
could be heard from next door. It
struck a chord in the legal mind and
caused the magistrate to hunt up his mil-
dewed “Sunday Observance Act.” There
he found that it was a punishable offence
to spray one’s flowers on the Sabbath,
and he eagerly read on to see just how
solidly the neighbor could be stung. An
unfortunate let-down, it announced that
“if convicted the accused shall be placed
in the stocks for two hours.”
* * * #
“L.P.”: Aptitude tests for J.Ps. (B.
16/7/’47)? I’m all for ’em. I have
known J.Ps. to go through the register
and then consult the Clerk of Court as to
what they should do. I’ve even known
the clerk to write out a verdict for the
Bench. One old J.P. I knew was as deaf
as a post; another had had no schooling.
It was before the latter and an equally
brilliant colleague that a motorist
appeared on two charges. For driving
without a licence, he brought a quid ; for
dangerous driving, a fiver, the J.P. adding
“Your licence will be cancelled.” Why
not scrub the lot and give the Clerk of
Court the power to deal with minor
offences?
* * * *
“Jurumudi”; On the whole the
Javanese are a gentle race, but in my day
the kampongs used to stage getekans, or
cane fights. These are duelling bouts be-
tween champions of each village, and I
would back the getekan against any other
form of sport for skill, pluck and endur-
ance. Each contestant has to stand his
ground, stripped to the waist, while his
opponent aims a blow at him with a
rattan split down the centre so that it
can flick whole strips of meat off a
person’s body. If the cane gets under
one s guard and flips across one’s face
the correct thing to do is to throw one’s
head back and crow like a cock, to indi-
cate that the stroke meant nothing at all
and was almost a pleasure. Then it is
the other fellow’s turn to strike and his
opponent’s to stand still until one
crumples and runs for his life, probably
with weals all over his body, while the
mob on both sides leaps like one man
into the air and shouts the sorak, the
Malay war-cry, with the native police
whacking their legs to cool them. The
Dutch used to permit this sport as an
annual outlet for the repressed belliger-
ency of the native, but I daresay the new
Government has ruled it out of order
as against the spirit of the republic.
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: Did “Frank
Mauri” (B. 9/7/’47) see those Japs he
mentioned on their way back from
Burma? Badly wounded, suffering with
malaria and dysentery, they were packed
in trucks which frequently wfere left at
sidings for a couple of days, to allow
more important traffic through. They
had no medical personnel attending them
and the Japs working around ignored
them. It was common to see p.-0.-w.
filling their water-bottles and rolling
smokes for them out of “boong” tobacco
and newspaper.
* * * *
“K. Ley” with a grouch:
I’m a bloke earning a good weekly wage,
supporting a wife and two kids. A month ago
the® wife went to hospital for an operation.
I sought everywhere for a woman to come
in for a few hours a day or a few hours a
week or a few hours a month. None could
be found. Got the wife home again, but she’s
under medical orders to do nothing for at
least five weeks and not much then. During
her illijess and recovery I was simply unable
to do my job properly and lost much time,
which didn’t worry the boss at all since he
understood the circumstances, but did worry
me. This was because I had to become cook,
housekeeper and nurse, buy food, get the kids
off to school and all the rest of it. I’m far
from alone in this and I know it. Thousands
of Australian husbands have been going through
it for years, for periods of a fortnight to three
months and longer. And there are plenty
with crippled wives who face a lifetime of it,
not because they can’t afford domestic help
but because domestic help can’t be got. The
feelings of such people can be imagined when
they read the other day that Mr. Calwell,
seeking immigrants in Europe, asserted that
domestic servants would not be “welcomed.”
“We want people who can serve the country
—not serve other people. Let them do their
own work!” I wonder who looks after the
Calwell household while he’s away—or maybe
he takes the whole box and dice with him,
at my expense.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: An event which
should interest many Eastralian ex-
servicemen will occur soon when a Perth
to Fremantle train will attempt to race
a team of relay-running peds who, play-
ing unduly safe, have stipulated that they
are racing the train, not the timetable.
Can’t say what the timetable boast is—
I’m not susceptible to that type of propa-
ganda—but I once lost a fortune in penny
poker on the trip. The race idea isn’t
new—passengers residing between stations
along that line usually time their depart-
ure by the train passing their doors;
sometimes they have to run for it.
There’s no record of any passenger hav-
ing missed a Westralian train. Mostly
they only miss appointments.
* * * *
“Uco”: Despite Chif.’s blowing hot
and cold with predictions of Golden
Ages, depressions, recessions and slumps,
I have so far refused to give way to
pessimism, but last week an advertise-
ment in a Sydney paper made me start
wondering. Under the heading “Posi-
tions Wanted,” these days seldom seen
among the classifieds, a bookmaker’s pen-
ciller announced that he sought “regular
employment, horses or dogs.” When a
Sydney bookie’s clerk has to advertise
for a job things must be getting bad.
Worse still, he is prepared to “go any-
where.”
* * * *
“Hist”: In 1935 the N.S.W. Govern-
ment granted free rail travel to Sydney
to all ex-Diggers wanting to take part in
the 25th Anniversary Anzac March. It
ran “specials” which were to all intents
and purposes troop-trains. At a cold
dark hour after midnight one drew up at a
junction, and the troops made a concerted
rush on the bar. The “O.C. train”—;sub-
sequently a Brigadier in the last nastiness
—was slumbering in his private compart-
ment, and woke a bit late. He, too.
needed a drink, but saw little hope of
boring his way in time through the solid
wall of blasphemous humanity jammed
around the place. He stood a moment in
glum frustration —and then spotted the
bell. Grinning, he picked it up and tolled
it vigorously. Thereupon the lucky ones
gulped down their beer, and the unlucky
cursed ; and within a few moments the
mob was dispersing back to their seats.
Then the O.C. train stalked smugly in
and ordered a double whisky.
THE GREAT UNDERPAID.
“Encouraged by the action of Federal members in
raising their salaries from £lOOO to £l6OO a year,
N.S.W. Assemblymen are now agitating for an in-
crease from £875 to £lOOO, plus free typing, gold
passes for defeated members and other things.”
There’s clearly something catching in the move-
ment
Sponsored at Canberra, as you doubtless
know,
For wangling an immediate improvement
In legislators’ annual whack of dough.
When Reps and Senators have scored an ample
Addition to their Parliamentary pay,
Who naturally follows their example?
Who but the M.L.A.?
i
’TwouM make his job sound somewhat less
impressing.
Jar on his self-esteem, I think, a lot,
Were he discovered tamely acquiescing
That they were worth far more, and he was
not.
“Sauce for the goose,” he might assert with
candor
And logic that you can’t but justify,
“Should be as applicable for the gander,”
Meaning himself thereby.
Ah, well, you surely wouldn’t have them sweated,
The gents who strenuously wag their jaws
On our behalf, to whom we are indebted
For issuing decrees and framing laws.
Still, there’s one thing that might be worth a
mention,
Just for the lack of frankness it denotes:
They never drop a hint of their intention
When they are seeking votes.
To voice a mild complaint upon the hustings
Re the inadequacy of their screw
And claim their increments require adjusting,
Moved up a bit, would never, never do.
You’ve never heard electioneering patter
Couched in that strain, one readily believes.
But, once they’re in, it’s quite a different matter,
Another pair of sleeves.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“No, no, you're not doing it justice, sir! Stand more erect."
“O’Johnno”: I’ve been reading a
Scottish law case in which an epithet used
in the Forces almost as a term of endear-
ment cropped up. A couple of hotel
employees were involved one a
Cockney, who complained of assault and
verbal abuse. “He hit me!” he explained
to the magistrate, “and made reference to
my genealogical unorthodoxy.” It’s the
first time I’ve heard it called that, but I
recall hearing years ago in a North Aus-
tralian port a Japanese ship-captain re-
mark in mixed company that he had
noticed a number of so-and-so’s in the
town. The ladies were silent; but one
of the gentlemen sprang into the breach.
“Yes, captain,” he said, “but we generally
call them half-castes in Australia—the
other is an English term, you know! ”
* * * *
“Metax”: Over the card-table Mrs.
Look-Big waxed enthusiastic over the
perfections of her new maid. The maid
had no existence outside the imagination
of Mrs. Look-Big, but one of the bridge
party was taken in by the boaster and
decided to cash in on the information
by tempting the paragon with a better
offer. She ’phoned, “Is that Mrs. Look-
Big’s residence? Could I speak to the
maid, please?” “I’m the only blasted
maid here,” replied a rough male voice
as the receiver banged the hook.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Curious how deter-
mined we are by fashion. “Bo” (B.
16/7/’47) regards long hair as affectation
and associates it with effeminacy and
poets of the Bunthorne variety. Most
of the warriors of English history not
only wore long hair, but also had beards,
yet I have even heard a beard described
as effeminate. I have never quite under-
stood why a beard should give a man a
womanlike appearance unless the criterion
is the Bearded Woman at the Show, but
I suppose that is how our prejudices
work. The criterion of manliness, appa-
rently, is the clean-shaven hero of the
fillums, but why a hairless face should
suggest masculinity and a hairy one
femininity is more than I can imagine.
I wear my hair long, largely through a
dislike of barbers, and when I go into a
pub I am frequently asked why I haven’t
got my ’cello with me ; yet most orchestral
players wear their hair like businessmen
these days. If a beard is unmanly and
a bald face manly, then I suppose a com-
pletely bald head would be the acme of
virility and the exuberant face foliage of
Shaw, who has just had his 91st birthday,
is a sign of senility.
* * * ♦
“Yair”: As I mooched out of the
Public Library I gave the usual glance at
the jumble of books on the table near
the door where you’re asked to place
your books as you leave. Lying side-
by-side were two titles, “What Hitler
Taught,” “How to Play Football.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp’’’: Ted Scorfield’s
delightfully natural sketch of a kid chalk-
marking a stationary car, with his
mother’s comment, “It’s Jimmy’s ambi-
tion to be a policeman,” parallels an inci-
dent in my suburb. Firemen dashing up
to put out a fire in a flat building found
an eight-year fireman, complete with the
“tin hat” his dad had brought back from
the war, attacking the flames with water
from a garden hose fixed to a bathroom
tap. Young Johnny, keen to be a fire-
man and always playing games in which
he'figured as one, had seen opportunity
for a taste of the real thing when the
fire broke out, and while adults rushed to
call the brigade he had got down to tin-
tacks. Johnny’s misguided parents in-
tend him to be a solicitor. It seems a
shame.
* * * *
“Rob McAustral”: Reported discovery
of the ill-fated Yongala (B. 16/7/’47) re-
vives memories of a trip I made in her
as a boy. Berthed with our mother, we
youngsters were looked after well by a
stout, middle-aged stewardess. She was
a fine woman ; we would gather on the
deck and listen to her stories by the
hour. One incident remains ever fresh in
my memory; gathered round, elders and
children, in a small party, the stewardess
explained how she loved the sea. Her
husband, a sea captain, had been drowned
in a shipwreck. “That is the way I want
to die,” she said. I have often wondered
whether she had her wish and went down
with the Yongala, or whether she left the
ship before the disaster.
*** ■ •
“Nagheer”: It is still almost as diffi-
cult for young couples to get spliced by
a parson in Queensland’s far-west as it
was for Maginnis Magee to get baptised
by one half a century and more ago.
A J.P. is the only alternative constantly
available, but candidates for matrimony
often have to travel 100 miles or more to
get him. The Shire Clerk at Jundah, 154
miles southward of Longreach by road,
has performed eight marriage ceremonies
since 1942. Some of the happy pairs
came from 300 miles away. Once in
three months a priest visits the town.
Other denominations have to wait for
anything up to three years for a routine
call from a parson. Shire Clerk Tooth,
J.P., is proud of the fact that none of his
marriages has ended up in divorce —
so far, at any rate.
jp * * ♦
“Plum”: The briefest and most pointed
criticism of our native Australian tongue
I have heard came from an 11-year-old
boy. Describing his trip from Singa-
pore to Perth, he said: “There was a
padre in my cabin. He didn’t talk like a
padre, though—he was an Australian.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Because Dr. Johnson
tossed and gored (to use a Boswellian
phrase) several literary celebrities of his
own time, such as Swift, Steme and
Fielding, and found merits in Fanny
Burney and Richardson, Norman Lindsay
tells us (Red Page 16/7/’47) that “he
attacked every writer whose work sur-
vives, while he praised only the worthless
stuff which perished in its generation.”
Surely an amazing mis-statement! Tak-
ing only Dryden, Pope, Addison and
Goldsmith, one may ask who praised
them more generously and appreciatively
than Johnson. His verdict on Addison
is worth quoting:
Whoever wishes to attain an English style,
familiar but not coarse, and elegant but not
ostentatious, must give his days and nights
to Addison.
No faint praise, this, and nobody should
need reminding that he described Gold-
smith as “a man who, whatever he did,
did it better than any other man could
do”; and Johnson’s Latin epitaph on
Oliver records that4ie “left scarcely any
style of writing untouched and touched
nothing that he did not adorn.” As
for Frances Burney, Macaulay, writing
close on 60 years after Johnson’s death,
recorded that the lady’s writings con-
tinued to hold a high place in the public .
esteem and that she had “lived to be-
come a classic in her own lifetime.” She
died at 90.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The shilling has long
been just a coin; facing the present
weird and complicated charges of a
country hotel bill I was reminded of its
old standard value everywhere. Country
hotels used to charge a bob an item all
round (meals and bed) in the “ordinary”
and two bob in the “commercial” room ;
by the week, it was cut to the square £1
and £2. Two drinks in the saloon bar cost
a bob. A bob an hour was mpre-or-less
the standard wage and the bob was also
the standard for meals, beds, bunches of
flowers, boxes of chocolates, cab fares,
cheap show seats, dances, paper-covered
books, telegrams ; if a reasonable price
had to be found for anything the shilling
presented itself as the natural choice.
“Bet you a bob” is the sole surviving
phrase for the once-universal standard-
isation ; a sad declension.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: My old friend
Colonel Mcßilge regards these modern
kids as altogether too sophisticated.
“Gave my grandson Robinson Crusoe on
his 12th birthday, last week,” he told me
in the club. “Asked him today how he
liked it. The young blighter seemed a bit'
offhand so I tried him with a question
about Crusoe finding the footmark on
the beach, and wondering who else could
have come to the lonely desert island
where he’d been for all those years with-
out seeing a soul. Asked him who he
had thought it would be. Would you be-
lieve it, Bungstarter, the little bounder
just yawned and said that Dr. Evatt
seemed to be always hopping about all
over the place, ‘so p’raps it was him’.”
» * « *
“Youanmi”: When the Metro-Gold-
wyn-Mayer film concern wrote to
8.8. C. complaining of its film critic
that she was “completely out of touch
with the tastes and entertainment require-
ments of the picture-going millions who
are also radio-listeners, and her criti-
cisms are, on the whole, unnecessarily
harmful to the film industry,” the lady
brought an action for libel, complain-
ing that she had been “completely
dropped” by 8.8. C. as a result of the
letter. A jury awarded her £l5OO,
the Judge saying that he would later
hear legal arguments on the ver-
dict. G. B. Shaw had a less costly and
more effective way of dealing with a
critic. At the conclusion of one of his 1
plays he answered the call for “Author! ”
and went out on to the stage to accept
the tumult of applause. When the clap-
ping and cheering died down and he
was about to acknowledge it a lone
“Boo!” came from the gods. G.B.S.
looked up towards the solitary critic and
announced “I quite agree, my dear fel-
low, but.who are we among so many?”
* * * *
“Conda”: Naval custom has been
shaken in recent years, what with officers
living forrard, ships built without search-
lights and crows’ nests (but fitted with
cinemas and laundries), boats hoisted by
winches and other radical departures. But
perhaps the most extreme innovation is
the. projected dispensing with hammocks.
bunks folding back to
the ship’s side will be fitted, and the old
“banana bedstead” relegated to the
limbo of tobacco priques and straw hats.
As one who has tried both hammock and
bunk, I plump for the former every time.
I’ve been shot out of but never
out of a hammock,
*** * *
“Oliver Filter”: The poor old Hot-
tentot (B. 18/6/ ’47) certainly does come
in for some hard words. In a South
African legal case it was held that;
There is an impairment of reputation
when an imputation is made of poverty,
leprosy, bastardy, or anything else which
according to the standard prevailing in the
country is calculated to bring a person into
contempt even though it may not reflect
on his moral character. It is, therefpre,
defamatory to assert that a white man is a
Hottentot.
Still, the Hottentot needn’t worry—it’s
mainly a matter of time and place. In
Elizabeth’s time it was actionable to call
a person a witch/ During the reign
of Charles II “it was actionable to call
a person a papist and to say that he
went to mass.” If that doesn’t cheer up
any disconsolate Hottentot he might de-
rive some satisfaction from Galley’s
Libel and Slander, wherein it is recorded
that “in some of the Southern States of
America it has been held actionable to
write or publish of a white man that he
is colored,” and “in Quebec to publish
of a candidate for public office that he
is a Freemason.”
# * * *
“Macnell”: During a raid on Darwin
several of us dived into a newly-built
tunnel housing a Diesel pump in the cliff
near Civil Aviation Jetty and crouched
there among timbers, pipes and bits of
pump while the Nips did the town over.
With us was the Stoker P.O. in charge
of the machinery. Somebody missed
Nobby, but, as expected, Nobby had
looked after himself, and when the all-
clear came we trooped out to see him
emerging from a foxhole down the hill-
side. “Must remember that hole,” he
commented, “plenty of boxes to sit on ;
quite comfy.” J ‘Boxes!” exclaimed the
Stoker P.O. “You’ve been sitting on my
gelignite! ”
*\* * *
“Double Disc”: Time was when flags
meant something, but these days, when
buildings hang out their bunting in
honor of a national milestone or. world
event or to greet a V.1.P., some mys-
terious efforts flutter in the breeze. On
the day after Monty’s arrival, Sydney
Central station had two flags flying on
the main buildings, the red Australian
ensign—and the Stars and Stripes! Ex-
actly what the connection is between
the victor of El Alamein, a British field-
marshal paying a visit to a British
Dominion, and the U.S.A. is probably a
top secret buried deep in the archives
of the N.S.W. Government Railways.
“Tell him we’re friends of Eddie Ward!"
MUGS.
“A few days after a Sydney magistrate had ruled
that addressing policemen as ‘mugs’ did not con-
stitute insulting language, another magistrate fined
an offender £5 for using abusive expressions, includ-
ing the same word, to another constable.”
A trifle boorish and a bit improper,
Discourteous, too, you’ll readily affirm,
To jar the feelings of a sturdy copper
With this admittedly colloquial term.
Still, these divergences being somewhat rum ’uns,
The word perhaps it’s wiser to abjure,
Though whether it will justify a summons
Remains a shade obscure.
Seeking a dictionary definition
I found it given as a “dupe” or “flat,”
But lots of us would shrink from the admission
There’s definite opprobrium in that.
Something perhaps of *pitying condescension
May lurk therein, but nothing to produce
Grounds or material for apprehension
It’s meant for sheer abuse.
Sometimes the noun becomes, by apt prefixion,
The adjective by which you find portrayed
The hopeless “also rans,” in vulgar diction,
Of any calling, art or craft or trade.
We’ve adjectival mugs of all conditions,
Mug actors, axemen, not a few,
Mug racing tipsters and mug politicians—
Maybe mug poets, too.
I rather doubt if any of the gentry
Who sit behind the Mace in solemn state
Who brand it as outside the Parliament’ry
Savings permissible in high debate.
Till then you have the option to resent it
Or to ignore it with a careless shrug—
Since Beaks themselves hold diff’rent views
anent it —
The epithet of “mug.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


'vvur
&
the
HAVE TOD
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codidl to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burmi Phllp Trust Co. Ltd as Joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Rums - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Blaclj - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Eee.
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—E. K. Overton. A.P.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
• COMPANY. limited
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. Box 543 ‘ 6.P.0.. Sydney.
SP f-\U.
• BREN GUN CARRIERS
Running order. Price £lOO with Battery f.o.r. Albury. Full range
of spare parts. Kerosene vapouriser specially, designed for Bren
Carriers and Ford V 8 Motors. Price of vapouriser £2l—fitting extra.
• CADILLAC 39 H.P. PETROL MOTORS (as new)
Suitable for cars, trucks and auxiliary power. Complete with all
accessories but gearbox. £125 crated f.o.r. Albury.
• GENERAL LEE TANKS
Petrol engines, suitable emergency tractor work, scrub clearing,
timber haulage, etc. Prices on application.
• FORD TRUCK TYPE GEAR BOXES £6/10/- each
• FORD DIFFERENTIALS Complete with axles. Suit 1938 to 1942
models. £lO each f.o.r. Albury.
• WIRE ROPE
For all purposes. Immediate delivery. One-half inch, composed
of six strands each of six wires, supplied any length. 100 ft.
minimum length. Price £l/5/- per length of 100 ft.
• HEATER RADIATORS ex DISPOSALS
Ideal for the office or home. 240-volt, fitted with new element,
flex and three-pin plug. These heaters have been used but have
been reconditioned and new elements fitted. Price £1 f.o.r. Albury.
• PORTABLE PHONES
For communication between homes, shops, workshops and dairies.
The all-purpose telephone that gives you direct communication.
Price £6 per set of two, complete with batteries.
• VOLTAGE REGULATORS
12-volt and 30-volt Regulators suitable for Home Lighting Sets.
Ensures longer life of your Set and a completely automatic control
of output. Price £4/10/- f.o.r. Albury.
• CHASSIS FRAMES
Suit all types of Chevrolet 6 Cars, Utilities and Trucks, 1940-42;
also to suit Dodge, Fargo and Ford Trucks.
• ALSO Amp. meters, volt meters, radiators, batteries to suit cars, trucks
and home-lighting sets; also many other items.
Write for our catalogue
BAKER MOTORS
478 OLIVE STREET, ALBURY
TELEPHONE 629
Wa
Aw
IOAL
nu
I rr
/. <’!//•:>
•r"*' ‘ V . V»
CONSOLE MODEL 327
Five Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
TABLE MODEL 847
Four Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
Without electricity . . . you can bring the
choice of the world’s programmes to your
home. These new Dual Wave Receivers
maintain the high level of performance asso-
ciated with the famous “His Master’s Voice”
trade mark.
"HIS MASTER'S VOICE”
true-to-life RADIO
Ask your nearest H.M.V. retailer to demonstrate
these new) H.M.V. radios.
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD, (Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
Rl/4T
THE SERVICE MAN
The "War" in Indonesia.
“Ek Dum”; The reader of the average
daily newspaper would be inclined to be-
lieve that a few thousand miles north in
Java a brutal tyranny, worse than Hitler’s,
was engaged in putting down for its own
profit the rebellion of a gentle civilised
people, the beloved Indonesian allies of
Australians, arbiters of democracy and
of the new order.
The impression is conveyed that this
is being dope almost gratuitously on
trivial excuses, of which the “brutal Dutch
Fascists” are only too eager to take ad-
vantage with all the cruel panoply of
major war. The facts are very different.
The Dutch have ruled in the Indies for
something like 350 years. They have as
much right to hold the country, subject to
the wish of a majority of the inhabitants,
as the white races have to hold Australia
or the United States. And they have a
responsibility even if they agree to hand
it over to native rule to see that native
rule is effective and capable of function-
ing, and that those who are in charge
are not at the mercy of the type of
ruffians who have been threatening to
turn 500 Western Javan plantations into
“roaring oceans of fire” so that it will
take 10 years to make them productive
“ Goin' down —anyone for the upper hangar? Goin' down!”
again. The wretched plantation workers,
in the meantime, would of course be
workless and starving, the plantation
owners ruined,
Dutch rule brought a freedom and
prosperity to the islands which they would
never have had otherwise. If there had
been no venturing Dutch seamen and
Dutch argosies there would have been
no European trade for the Indies. The
Dutch have, on the whole, faced very
little resistance up to the last few years,
though they had a rebellion or so 250
years ago. They have brought education,
health services, sanitation wherever the
means have been open to them. Had
they been cruel and greedy oppressors,
neglectful of everything but their own
aggrandisement, the population could
not have increased a hundred per cent,
in 50 years, as it has done in Java —not
in Russia.
They have shown no racial discrimina-
tion. They have given a liberty to the
Javanese so wide that it has allowed the
old sultanates to exist, if not to rule ; to
exist much as they existed in the days
of Haroun-al-Raschid, but deprived of
their rights to torture, boil and poison.
Local self-government with a native civil
service has been in vogue for a long
period.
It is interesting to know that two
holders of the sultanates, whose dynasties
have lived in foetid splendor among their
concubines and dancing girls for cen-
turies, are among the avatars of democ-
racy.
Dutch and the Allies
Australian “industrial” unions and
Communists have nothing against the
Dutch except that they have rejected
Communism alike in their home country
and their islands. Dutch industry is a
model from an employee’s viewpoint.
And the Dutch loyally took their part in
the war. Their cities were subjected to
some of the worst abominations suffered
by cities in Western Europe. Rotterdam
was levelled over a space as large as from
Sydney Railway Station to the Circular
Quay—completely levelled. Every pres-
sure was exerted to win the Dutch to the
side of the Germans —in vain. They saw
their country devastated by Allied bomb-
ing, their nationals killed perforce by their
friends. They remained staunch through-
out.
After Arnhem, many of the survivors
of the heroic British airborne division
were rescued by kindly Dutch people,
who risked their own lives in their self-
imposed task of succor; and this the
British nation has not forgotten.
And the Dutch used the resources of
their island Empire, their shipping and
their cruisers for Allied purposes. They
gave one of their largest vessels, the
Oranje, for an Allied hospital ship, mainly
to carry Australian wounded in luxury.
The oil and other products of their East
and West Indies islands were poured into
the Allied pool.
When the Japanese were preparing to
enter the war, they tried to make a very
tempting bargain with the Dutch regard-
ing the East Indies. When it became
necessary, for purposes of British and
Australian defence in particular, to ask
\
for defensive air facilities in the Indies
before we were at war with Japan, there
was no hesitation in giving them.
The Dutch were prepared to defend
Java within their resources and to make
it a battleground. It was the initiative of
the “Government” at Canberra which led
to their abandonment, though the same
“Government” a few weeks before had
been full of demands that Java should
be made the main battleground, so that
the empty north of Australia should not
be under the risk of invasion. “Fight,
for Australia in Java!” was not only a
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” policy.
Soekarno Is Decorated
When the Japanese took over Java,
their first move was to wfcan over the
Indonesians. They were successful only
with certain factions, largely Com-
munist.
There was little hesitation about some
of these people. The records of the Aus-
tralian shortwave monitoring system can
prove, if the Canberra Administration is
brave enough to offend the Communist
leaders by producing them, exactly what
sort of a birth the present independence
movement enjoyed.
The very name “Indonesia” was in-
vented by the Japanese. Achmed
Soekarno, now President of the republic,
so much beloved by Healy’s Watersiders
and Elliott’s Seamen and Thornton's
Ironworkers, not to mention large sec-
tions of the Australian press, was
a “puppet” as far back as June,
1942 —within three months of the
invasion of the islands. In March, 1943,
under Japanese prompting and tutelage,
he became “President of the People’s
Movement for the Reconstruction of Java
under Nippon Administration.” In the
following November he attended a con-
ference of Japanese puppets at Tokyo.
Soekarno accepted a decoration from
Hirohito, whom the Communists and Dr.


Missing Friend.
WILL JOAN SMITH, daughter-of Sydney Smith, for-
merly of Edward Street, Gordon, or anyone knowing
whereabouts, please communicate with PER-
pttTITAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-89
Hunter Street, Sydney, reference LJM?
:-^cgr/;^c^y£s
onMIi
»«S»S2^2
4:
o'
O
■
::
O' o
6
k>
*--%5
°x 3
v.*S3
TO*
a&fc
% .*•
[ \*y
*fi
w
isats#
31
il—
;*y r Y,
virmi
(<?
4>
mi
&k
&
2
X
e
Also ovo liable In
handsome black or
white luminous
dials.
&
f SS8
SHOCKPROOF
The 1NCA-BLOC, a new revolu-
tionary fitting, protects the deli-
cate balance against the most
severe jars, shock and concussion.
k IHRTERPRO
< ' and not "mavbe.” The
n
i
and not "maybe." The
Felca "Magnificent" is definitely
proof against immersion in water
for considerable periods and is
unaffected by any moisture or dust.
r
>
non-magnetic
i
The Felca "Magnificent"
is unaffected by proximity to any
electrical surroundings, in motor
cars, aeroplanes, etc., or by per-
sonal magnetism.
HEAT PRO COLS
RESISTANT
The special metal used in the;;
Hair Spring and Balance expands
and contracts according to tem-
perature, ensuring accuracy under
all weather conditions.
MAGNIFICENT” 10 c« s .
This great watch was built for a specific purpose. In
addition to being a faultless timekeeper, streamlined and
snug-fitting, it had to be waterproof, with wear-resisting
qualities far beyond the ordinary, in order to comply with
American Government specifications. Produced by the
famous Felca Works, this masterpiece of Swiss craftsman-
ship is now available in civil life and includes exclusive
wartime features never before offered in a watch of such
low price.
Slim "Paris Model" case of highly polished stainless steel
. . . handsome two-tone luminous dial . . • unbreakable
crystal . . . 17-jewel Swiss lever movement . . . sweep
second hand . , . accurate timing . . . written guarantee
with every watch. . . . Price, 10 gns. Fitted with English
stainless steel expanding band, 12/6 extra.
Also available in 9ct. gold dustproof case, £l5.
ds
A.C.A. Bldg., 66 King St. (Cnr. York St.), Sydney.
All mail orders are registered and post free. Direct
enquiries to John Hay & Co., Dept. AE,
585 Military Road, Mosman, Sydney.
’Phone XM 7483.
Evatt were so anxious to hang. He and
his fellow-traitors were used consistently
by the enemy for publicity purposes to
cause disaffection among Allied troops
and to endanger this country and every-
body in it. When Japan gave in they
were already armed —as far as the Jap-
anese could arm them —and trained as
far as the Japanese train them
to continue their treasonable activities.
And they were soon reinforced by a
group of Communists, who had under
gone training no less#effective than the
Japanese training and equally traitorous
to the Allied cause ; Communists from
the Commonwealth where they had been
sheltered and fostered and whose prime
objective, as always, was to “turn imperi-
alist war into civil war.”
Restoration of Allied control was fol-
lowed by murder, pillage and arson. Aus-
tralians were among the victims.
With the help of the British and the
countenance and assistance of the United
States, the Netherlands Government has,
with infinite patience and resource,
achieved a compromise, not under duress
from the N.E.I. inhabitants, the bulk
of whom were palpably content with
Dutch rule and fearful of the tyrannies
which the Soekarnos are likely to impose
on them, but in deference to the opinion
of a world which has since become con-
siderably less pro-Russian and less trust-
ful of the policies of “self-determination
for minorities” which were the main-
spring ojj the changes enforced in Java.
The Dutch have no doubt made mis-
takes in the course of their reorganisa-
tion of the islands ; but Britain and the
U.S.A. themselves have made mistakes.
It is admitted that individual Dutch have
been guilty of breaches of understandings
and agreements in minor matters. But,
generally speaking, the behavior of Dutch
nationals, some of them rooted in Indo-
nesian soil for seven or eight generations,
and as much Javanese as the colored
Javanese themselves, have shown a
wonderful moderation.
This moderation continued till agree-
ment was almost complete, till the Indies
had been remoulded into a self-goveri'N
ing federation. Respect for private rights
of property had been secured. Owners
were to be allowed to go back to their
properties. Freedom of communication
was to be re-established.
Last week only one thing stood in the
way of complete settlement of a peace-
ful and smooth-wording Government: a
guarantee that the new regime could
control its extremists, and assure the
safety of those who were the enemies of
Communism and of its allies, the mobs
of larrikin bandits who have attached
themselves to the “democratic freedom”
movement.
The Dutch asked that until it was
assured that the new Indonesian Govern-
ment could establish its authority, Dutch
police should co-operate with Indonesians
in maintaining order. This the Indo-
nesian leaders violently refused after
deliberately repudiating two agreements
come to by Sjahrir, who resigned the
Premiership in consequence of the first
breach last May, and his successor.
It has been represented generally by
the kind of newspaper with whiqh Sydney
is served that this was a trivial matter.
In cold fact, the lives of thousands of
Dutch and Indonesian citizens of Euro-
pean blood, men, women and children,
are at stake.
And in any case the Communists do
not want peace. They are prepared to
further anything which will divide their
enemies of Western Europe and pave
the way for insurrection.
What the Dutch Fear
At the end of October, 1945, Dr.
Soekarno and Sjahrir, his Premier, both
Jap. collaborators, did the very thing
which the Dutch fear that they will now
do again if the Indonesian “Republican”
Government is left to its own resources.
Soekarno and his backers lost control
of their Communist- and Moslem-
inflamed followers. British occupation
forces rounding up and disarming a large
force of Japanese and rescuing p.-0.-w.
and interned civilians Were attacked.
On October 30,1945, Brigadier Mallaby,
w'ho with three of his own officers and
three Indonesians was trying to stop the
fighting, after a truce had been signed
with Soekarno, was murdered in cold
blood, along with one of his officers.
Lorries sent to rescue Dutch women and
children in compounds were seized and
burned. All that Dr. Soekarno did about
it was to retire to the interior “for a
rest.”
Then, in November, 1945, the
Japanese General Nagano and his Chief-
of-Staff, Major-General Yamamoto, were
taken into custody, charged with having
failed to maintain law and order in keep-
ing with the armistice terms, and with
having handed over their equipment and
arms to Indonesian rebels.
Despite the fulfilment of every agree-
ment by the British, the Indonesians ful-
filled none of theirs regarding the release
of civilian and other prisoners and the
return of the bodies of murdered British
officers. They refused to indicate the
burial places of British dead. In fact,
they showed “deliberate evasion, non-
co-operation and a complete lack of
humanitarianism,” as they have since
done frequently with the Dutch.
An Indian soldier was found crucified.
According to the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph’s” Ronald Monson, other Indians
were found with their eyes gouged out
and their limbs hacked off. One who got
away from the savages returned to the
British lines minus an arm. After the
Indonesian rising in Soerabaya 80
Indians were reported missing. None of
them has ever been found.
On October 28, 1945, Indonesians
massacred 150 women and children in
process of evacuation from Soerabaya.
They threw hand grenades into the trucks
packed with women and children. The
innocents died, screaming.
Indonesians stretched a wounded
British officer on the ground and cut off
his limbs. A British officer was shot, his
head cut off and his body mutilated in
a typically Oriental manner,
But the only effect these horrors had
on Australian Communists was to induce
a mob of ruffians and heelers to turn the
hose on Dutch Allied soldiers who were
being transported through Australian
ports. Not one word was uttered in sup-
port of the British Government by the
“Labor” Government. Not one word of
condemnation of the beasts who were
murdering whites came from clergymen
who are now holding up their hands in
horror at the idea that the white,
humane Dutch should dare to lay a finger
on the loathsome creatures who imple-
mented and tolerated these atrocities and
worse.
Silent likewise were Australian poli-
ticians and newspapermen over the affair
of an R.A.F. aircraft, forced down near
Magelang with engine trouble, whose
crew of five R.A.F. men and 20 Indians
were dragged into a village, slaughtered
and dismembered after they had been
kept in jail naked and beaten —all this by
order of an Indonesian “general.” Nor
was there any newspaper clamor when
the dismembered bodies were found in
a shallow grave, or when dozens of
equally horrible atrocities were reported,
or When a British Red Cross girl worker
and a British officer, found bathing, were
done to death, or even when three Aus-
tralian officers on their lawful occasions
rescuing Australian p. - o. - w. were
slaughtered, Captain Alaistair Mac-
Kenzie, A.1.F., and Squadron-Leader F.
G, Burch all and Flight-Lieutenant Hec-
tor MacDonald.
Against this unavenged atrocity Mr,
Forde uttered a “protest” which had the
usuaT effect, and the results of a Judge
Kirby inquiry have been concealed. And
the massacre of a Dakota crew by a vil-
lage butcher with a chopper was taken as
“just one of those things.”
All the indignation, real or simulated,
was reserved for white men who have
been our neighbors throughout our his-
tory, and whose ancestors made the first
recorded landfall in this country.
The “Campaign”
The Dutch are determined that the
events of 1945 shall not be repeated. They
are willing to give Java self-government,
but they insist on guarantees of safety
for their nationals and for Indonesians
who may be devoted to destruction by
the republican rabble.
They have taken what they describe as
“police action”To enforce security. Their
action has the full support not only of
peoples like the Ambonese but of the
East Indonesian State. Its swift success
shows obviously they could have sewn
up the Soekarnos and Sjahrirs and their
motley followers any time , this last
twelvemonth.
While hysterical clergymen and malig-
nant union leaders shout about bloody
war, and while Comrade Sjahrir—he is
the Communist-sponsored vice-Premier —
shrieks from India for the formation of
a Red International Brigade to rescue
the 50,000,000 Javanese and Sumatrans
who are said to be burning for freedom
from the Dutch yoke—if they did rise
they could sweep the few thousand
Dutch soldiery and marines available
into the sea in half an hour —the Dutch
are cleaning up in a manner which shows
that the opposition is negligible.
. A few old tanks with a company
or so of infantry behind have been mov-
ing down the roads at various points.
In Cheribon, a considerable port, they
met little resistance, though the laborers
in all the ports, according to Australian
Communist propaganda, are supposedly
prepared to tear any Dutchman limb
from limb. In other centres, just as in-
dustrialised, there is scarcely a peep out
of “our Iqdernesian comrades.”
The direction of the movements makes
it plain where the resistance lies. It lies
in little nests in dark-age, Jap-puppet
sultanates, where a few small bands.
Japanese-armed, lurk. The head and
front of Indonesian democracy is
Djokjakarta, home of a sultan who
played with the enemy throughout the
war as a tool of Tokyo.
Indonesian communiques tell of
doughty deeds and fierce and growing
resistance; but their tales read singularly
like those of * the Japanese in their
moments of defeat, in which they were
stimulated to sink the whole U.S. fleet
over and over again.
The Dutch prediction that the “fight-
ing” will be all over in a “few days”
is probably accurate, though the ex-
puppets hint that their rout will be fol-
lowed by “guerrilla tactics,” a promise
in which it is easy to believe. On their
previous records it is clear that they
have strong affinities with the midnight
assassin and the bloody murderer of
women and helpless and friendly service-
men, and feel no horror or shame at
their deeds.
Their promise, indeed, combined with
their Communist “scorched - earth”
policy, proves how far the Dutch were
justified in their proceedings, which are
designed not to establish a despotic
Dutch rule, not even to overthrow the
rule of the new Indonesian Government,
but to assure the safety of and food for
and protection at the point of their
callings of their own long-established
resident nationals, and the certainty that
induction of the new regime will not be
followed by dark Asiatic revenges and
crimes of the sort which disgraced Indo-
nesian proceedings in 1945-46.
It is symptomatic of what is happen-
ing that there is no disturbance —there
never has been —over the greater part of
the East Indies. All the resistance has
been confined to small areas within Java
and Sumatra; those areas which have
been reachable by Communist propa-
ganda, or where rebellion could shelter
under the wing of dissident sultans and
fanatic Moslems.


THE
LONG
LIFE
BATTERY
m
txibt
EXIDE BATTERIES STILL KEEP GOING
WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
hi
!T J
////
EXIDE BATTERIES
OF AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Sir Winston Dugan threatens to break
records as State Governor in Australia.
Governor of South Australia in 1934, he
assumed the Victorian office in 1939, and
his term has been extended twice since
then, the last time in 1946. It expires
again in January, 1948, and is almost
certain to be extended, although he
planned to leave for England in October.
As popular a gubernatorial head as the
State has ever had, he was the officer
in World War I who once led his
men in a hop-over by dribbling a foot-
ball across no-man’s land. He had a
distinguished military career in both that
war and the Boer War. He is 70.
Kenneth Alfred Greene, successor to
Justice T. C. Davis as Canadian High
Commissioner to Australia, likes meet-
ing people, and Australians are going to
like meeting him and his family. A tall,
striking figure, he is a friend of Justice
Davis, who is now one of this country’s
staunchest advocates abroad. The
Greenes, because of Pacific shipping
problems, travelled to Australia via
London and Suez. Mr. Greene’s for-
bears have owned land near Ottawa for
almost a century and a half; but the
High Commissioner has spent most of
his business life establishing and expand-
ing an insurance firm. He enlisted in
1915, fought on the Somme and at Vimy
Ridge, rose to the rank of captain, and
was mentioned in dispatches. Now 59,
he has given a great deal of his time to
public service, and for this was awarded
the 0.8. E. His wife’s brother is Air Vice-
Marshal K. M. Guthrie, and his own
brother, the late Justice Ainslie Greene,
was a member of the Ontario Supreme
Court Bench.
Wing-Commander Brian Eaton, D. 5.0.,
D.F.C. and Bar, of the School of Air
Support, was an original member of
No. 3 (City of Sydney) Squadron, and
was in the thick of the fighting in the
Middle East. He later commanded a
Fighter-Bomber wing, and also had a
term as Staff Officer of the Desert Air
Force. On three occasions he was forced
to walk home after being shot down in
the Desert. His D.S.O. came from a
daring bombing raid on the Bjelovar
Barracks in Yugoslavia, in face of ex-
ceptionally intense A.-A. fire. In the in-
vasion of Italy Eaton commanded the
first squadron to land on the Heel and
operate from an Italian airfield, and he
met an Italian pilot with whom he had
once fought a dog-fight. By that time the
Itie was flying Kittyhawks with the
R.A.F. against the Germans.
One of the best bets for becoming a
bishop is to be appointed to the incum-
bency of Christ Church, South Yarra.
The third vicar of Christ Church to be
elevated to a bishopric is the Rev. J. A. G.
Housden, who becomes Bishop of Rock-
hampton (Q.) in succession to the Right
Rev. F. L. Ash, The two previous vicars
who won gaiters were Canon' Murray,
who became Bishop of Riverina in 1944,
and the Rev. J. D. McKie, who was con-
secrated Bishop of Geelong last year.
The new bishop is English-born, but he
has lived in Australia from a boy and
was educated at Essendon High, He has
already had a lot of experience of the
North as a missionary along the
Mitchell River, vicar at Thursday Island
and rector at Darwin. He was ministering
on the Darling Downs when called to
Christ Church nine months ago. He is
43.
Sam Hughes, who will produce Basil
Dean’s stage adaptation of James Elroy
Flecker’s “Hassan” for S.U.D.S. at Syd-
ney Conservatorium for a five-night
season nert month, hails from Scotland.
Educated at Shrewsbury, he lived in
France and studied in Germany. Before
coming here seven years ago he held down
numerous jobs in London, including the
management of an art gallery. Upon
arrival in Sydney he produced for
Bryant’s Playhouse Ibsen’s “Liliom,”
which had a successful four months’ run.
Sam was a corporal with the Australian
Army during the war, and upon discharge
entered Sydney Uni. as an Arts under-
graduate. A slim, fair-haired fellow in
his early thirties, he claims Australians
have a natural flair for acting.
One of the openers of the show of Dr.
Arthur Fleischnfann and Lyndon Dads'-
well at the Velasquez Gallery, Mel-
bourne, said that it was the first all-
sculpture exhibition ever to be held in
Melbourne. This was not correct—
Fredda Brilliant had one at Kozminsky’s
this year. But it was the first display of
such impressive tonnage —two tons of
terra-cotta, bronze, wood, plastic and
cement —yes, cement —and Mr. Dads-
well brought it over from Sydney
in a seven-ton truck. Dr. Fleisch-
mann’s title is medical, not artistic.
He took his degree in surgery at
his father’s wish and then turned to
sculpture. He is a Czech who arrived
in Australia before the war. Lyndon
Dadswell was born at Stanmore
(N.S.W.). He studied under Julian Ash-
ton, Melbourne’s Paul Montford and at
the R.A. in London, and at 21 assisted
Montford with the Melbourne Shrine of
Remembrance, carving the 12 panels de-
picting units of the A.I.F. in action. He
fought with the Sixth in the Second
World War, was wounded in Syria, was
in the Greek campaign and used his ex-
perience in two pieces for the Canberra
War Memorial. He is now lecturer in
sculpture at East Sydney Tech.
Many of the younger tars here with
the R.N. Carrier Squadron are seeing
Australian ports for the first time, but
Rear-Admiral Creasy has been this way
before. In 1934, as Commander Creasy,
he was appointed executive officer on the
cruiser Sussex and came to Australia in
that vessel when she brought the Duke of
Gloucester out for the Melbourne Cen-
SAILOR.
tenary celebrations. On this trip his list
of engagements must be almost as long
as the Duke’s was on the earlier one. At
one Sydney dinner he had to break away
after the fish, make a national broadcast
and continue the meal a couple of laps
behind the rest of the diners.
D. R. Bowes, of Adelaide, wins at 20
a £7OO scholarship of the “London 1851
Exhibition” for two years’ mineralogy
study there. Douglas Mawson, his present
boss at Adelaide Uni., says that Bowes
is “very able, and will be heard more
of.” He has won already a Tate medal,
a Barr Smith scholarship and a first-class
B.A. in geology at Adelaide. Another
Adelaide man off to Britain is H. G.
Andrewartha, entomologist of the Waite
Institute, on a year’s leave to the zoology
department at Cambridge, with the
U.S.A. to follow.
Hay War Memorial High School in-
tends to establish an Alexander C. Welsh
Library as a memorial to its English
master, who retired on June 30 after
26 years on the staff. Welsh reported
for duty when the School opened on
May 6, 1921, and at the complimentary
dinner given him on his retirement was
able to boast that he had never missed
a day. A Victorian, he commenced his
career as a pedagogue in that State,
gravitated towards the Murray and put
in seven years at Echuoa High before
crossing into N.S.W. The Bulletin
knows him as a writer of verse and
prose —he was writing verse back in
the days of the “Lone Hand” —and he
also has a couple of novels and loads of
miscellaneous writings to his credit.
“T.P.V.”; A little correction. “Tich”
McFarlane (B. 9/7/’47) came to Ambon
with No. 13 Squadron and, later, taking
charge of No. 2 Squadron, moved to
Namlea on the island of Bum. It was
on that island that his small party made
their jungle march to safety. One small
sidelight on his character: we were
R.A.A.F. - trained wireless operators,
grounded in favor of Empire-Air-Scheme-
trained men, and we complained. “Tich”
had a quiet, unofficial word in our ears.
“You fellows have a legitimate com-
plaint,” he told us, “but winning the war
comes first. I have been training for this
war for years, and now it’s come I’m
stuck in an office as operations officer.”
We made no more complaints.
Enter for the unusual training-for-
parson stakes, Norman Smith, out here
from England as a deckhand on the
Priam. He is a B.A. of Oxford, and is to
be ordained into the Church of England
when he gets back. He calls his fellow-
seamen “most religious, and fine com-
panions,”
Dr. John Kevin Clarebrough, a Mel-
bourne University graduate of 24, bids
fair to establish a record in winning ex-
hibitions. He recently won four scholar-
ships in the medical finals and shared
another. He has since been awarded the
Margaret Ryan Scholarship in medicine
at St. Vincent’s Hospital and a half
share in the Michael Ryan Scholarship
in surgery at the same sickbay.
Something new in musical tours is
being attempted by Welsh baritone
Hubert Evans and his wife Pat Siedle,
his accompanist and an accomplished
pianiste in her own right. Encouraged
by the reception accorded their concerts
given to troops all over the world they
are setting out to take music to the
people in Australian country towns.
Their first tour, mainly in Victoria, but
slipping across the border to Renmark,
Bern and Pinnaroo in S.A. and Bal-
ranald and Narrandera in N.S.W., in-
cludes not only Ballarat and Mildura but
Sea Lake, Charlton and Hopetoun
and a score of other towns. The
Evanses spent the early war years enter-
taining folk in munition factories, air-
raid shelters! and training camps all over
England, Scotland and Wales. From
1943 onwards they carried on the good
work wherever there were British troops
in the Middle East. They were in Persia
at the time of the Tehran Conference
and gave a command performance for
the Persian Royal Family. Since the
war they have toured India, Ceylon and
Malaya and have recently completed a
string of 40 recitals in the 8.C.0.F,
area of Japan. Hubert Evans, sketched
SINGER.
here by Heth, was born near Swansea at
a little village called Tirdeunaw, the
English meaning of which is, on the
authority of the Presideijt of the
Cymmrodorion Society, eighteenpence.
The high forehead and benign coun-
tenance sketched here by Dubois belong
to Lars Jorstad, Norwegian Minister-
designate to Australia. Till now Nor-
way’s highest official in this country has
been rated Consul-General, but arrange-
ments have recently been made for an
exchange of Ministers. The diplomatic
and consular services of Norway are
linked under one department, and Jorstad
has served his country in many capacities
DIPLOMAT.
in various parts of the world. Back in
the nineteen-twenties he was on ?he staff
of the Consul-General in London, but in
1931 he became Deputy-Registrar of the
Permanent Court of Justice at The Hague,
a position which he held until the Ger-
man invasion of Holland brought the
Court’s activities to an end. Escaping
to London, he joined the Norwegian
Government-in-Exile, and was sent to
New York as Consul. While Norwegian
troops and airmen were training in
Canada and the U.S.A. he was chairman
of ’ the Norwegian Court-Martial in
Americaf, and from 1943 till early this
year he was Counsellor at his country’s
embassy in Washington. At present
stationed in Sydney, he will move to Can-
berra when formalities establishing his
new status are complete.
Australian farmers lost a champion
with the death of Ernie Field, who died
at Forbes last week. For many years on
N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ executive,
and president for years, his big, spare
frame and strong voice were seen and
heard wherever farmers congregated in
conference. He had a wide knowledge of
wheatgrowing, owning properties at
Wagga, Forbes and Bimbi, and in places
where politicians and others dabbled
with wheat legislation Field’s counsel ex-
erted its influence. An easy, friendly chap
to talk with, he puzzled a lot of people
by the amount of work he got through,
both on his farms and in public life. He
was 72 and member of the Australian
Wheat Board at the end.
Into the Silence:
In ' Sydney, at 77, Commissioner W. Mc-
Kenzie, of the Salvation Army. Known as
Fighting Mac since Gallipoli days, when as a
padre he won the M.C., he was a Scot who
had lived over 60 years in Australia. At the
time of his retirement eight years ago he was
in charge of S.A. activities in Queensland and
N.S.W. Every Old Digger knew and honored
Fighting Mac. One of his friends in Gallipoli
and France was Father Fahey, of Westraha,
who also was decorated for brave and devoted
service in the field.
At 78, in Melbourne, Miss Katherine Hilda
Tapley Short, known to several generations ot
Melbourne schoolgirls as headmistress at Toorak
College and Clyde. She established Canbenas
firs! Y.W.C.A. and pioneered Y.W.C.A. worK
in Newcastle, N.S.W.
In Melbourne, Colonel John McArthur,
D.S.O. and Bar and 0.8. E., a distinguished
soldier of 40 years’ service. With a mounted
Australian regiment in the Boer War, he wa*
an instructor in the C.M.F. thereafter. He was
severely wounded in the First World War. 1
the last war he was on the General Stan.
At Wellington Point, near Brisbane, at 86,
William French, for many years a noted
Queensland horticulturist, and a former in-
structor in horticulture and plant propagafion
at Gatton.
At Hampton, Vic., Frederick James Drake-
ford, brother of the Minister for Air and Civu
Aviation. He was one of four brothers who
went to the Far East, and was in the Bntisn-
Amcrican Tobacco Co. for 25 years. He was
interned at Shanghai during the war years.
In Sydney, at 69, E. M. Horsington, former
member for Sturt in the N.S.W. Assembly.
Minister for Lands in the second Lang Govern-
ment, he represented Sturt for 25 years.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
One of the most striking bits of scenery
in the world is a British harbor decorated
with British warships. Since last Thurs-
day morning Port Jackson has been
putting on her most dazzling smile to
welcome the men of the four ships of
the R.N. squadron now visiting Australian
waters. She welcomed the two great
aircraft-carriers and the two destroyers
with a morning blue and gold, while the
populace lined the foreshores and the
heights waving greetings and little craft
dashed blithely about in greeting. There
were a few smiles of good cheer for ships
of our own Navy which escorted the
visitors to their moorings.
Every day until August 6 there will
be 1000 sailors footloose in the city,
adding to the gaiety of Empire parties.
From North to South Head they will be
entirely encircled by cocktail parties,
dances, theatre and radio parties, large
parties, small parties and parties of two.
Among the R.N.’s first hosts in Sydney
was the International Society. This gave
a 5-to-7 sherry party to Rear-Admiral
Creasy and about 60 of his officers. The
Lyceum Club fairly palpitated with mas-
culine charm, for the British sailors were
as good-looking a company as ever
entered Port Jackson.- Not to be over-
looked, when charm is being mentioned,
was young Padre G. C. Birch, slim and
golden-haired, of' the Glory.
Mrs. Cnpasy (who travelled to Aus-
tralia in the Orion, and had arrived in
Sydney by plane on Tuesday) came with
her Admiral husband. She is tali and
slim, and her pearls and picture hat,
brim upturned in the front, were the
right accompaniments to her powder-blue
dinner frock. Admiral Creasy, R.N.,
sat with other R.N, importants on
the dais. Here also sat the Society’s
President, Aubrey Halloran, who wel-
comed them in a stirring speech. Admiral
Creasy, thanking Australia in his speech,
said the men of Theseus, Glory, Cockade
and Contest felt as much at home in
Sydney streets as they did in walking
down Piccadilly.
Major Jarvie and Helen Michell, well
known for their work in Austria with
the U.N.R.R.A., added their posies of
speech to the glory of Britain for what
she was doing for the displaced peoples
of Europe. Another U.N.R.R.A. worker
back from Austria was Helen Heney,
who had worked with U.N.R.R.A, in
Australia. Mrs. Florence Taylor had the
final word, and a very complimentary
and warm word of welcome it was.
The room was crowded, and the
officers not important enough to be on
the dais had a happy time getting matey
with lots of Sydney’s bright-faced young
girls.
Bright welcome party for the visiting
Royal Navy Carrier Squadron was held
in H.M.A.S. Australia on Friday even-
ing. Visitors arriving by pinnace stepped
on to a quarter-deck gay with bunting
and colored lights and were welcomed by
Rear-Admiral H. B. Farncomb and Mrs.
Farncomb. Admiral and Mrs, Creasy
were at the party and about 50 or 60
officers from the four visiting warships.
Our own Admiral G. D. Moore and
Mrs. Moore, with whom Mrs. Creasy is
staying during the squadron’s visit to
Sydney, were amoh’g the guests. Another
bright party on the same night was the
Victoria League’s Young Contingent’s
dance at Vere Matthews. Late this
afternoon the Governor, Lieut.-General
Northcott, and Mrs Northcott will en-
tertain at cocktails in honor of the
visitors'.
Next Sunday’s big flutter will be the
All-star Concert on H.M.S. Theseus. This
is for the Food for Britain appeal, and
tickets have already sold rapidly from
£lO upwards. One man, an anonymous
friend to Britain, has sent £lOOO for the
fund, while various cheques for £lOO
have been received. Visiting stars Miklos
Gafni, Della Chiesa, Ella Shields and
Herta Glaz will appear on the pro-
gramme,
Hugh Dormer’s Diaries is the title of
a book that has special interest for Aus-
tralian readers. The writer, already
awarded a D.S.O. in 1943 for daring and
confidential work which necessitated be-
ing dropped by parachute in France, was
killed in action on the eve of the battle
of Caen at the age of 25. He is a son
of Mrs. Kenelm Dormer, at present in
Sydney, whose father was the Hon J. T.
Toohey. The book, which was first pub-
lished in February of this year by Jona-
than Cape, has already been reprinted
twice. When war broke out, Hugh was
in his third year at Oxford studying for
the Diplomatic Service, and was already
a cadet in the Irish Guards, in which
regiment his father had served in the
1914-18 war. It was in this regiment that
the young soldier held a commission
when he was killed.
When British Minister for Civil Avia-
tion Lord Nathan, his wife Lady Eleanor
Nathan and their son, the Hon. Roger,
arrive in Sydney next month they will
stay for some days with the Ernest
Salengers, Lord Nathan is a first cousin
of Mr. Salenger, and the two families
have been in close touch during the years,
although their homes are so distant —
the one in Surrey and the other at Kil-
lara. Lord Nathan, who is a D.S.O.
winner, served as a colonel in the 1914-18
war. Lady Eleanor is the chairman of
the London County Council.
American soprano Della Chiesa has
voice, good looks and a charming yet
dignified approach to her audience. In
short, she has everything. The women in
her Town Hall audiences last week were
enthusiastic about the Greuze-like quality
of her appearance aqd her flowing frock
of mingled hydrangea-blue and carnation-
pink soft taffeta. Ndted by every woman
was her shoulder scarf of car-
nation-red lined with the blue, which
she wore after singing the first group of
songs. Miss Della Chiesa is widely
known in America as an opera, concert
and radio singer. Her voice is one of
exceptional beauty.
To her opening concert came America’s
Ambassador Robert Butler, Mrs. Butler
and daughter Catherine, who is a student
of singing at Sydney Con. Ermine wraps
were worn by both Mrs. Butler and her
daughter, also by Mrs. Greg. McGirr
and Margaret Gillespie, Sydney de Vries
and Mrs. de Vries and many of Sydney’s
leading singers were jn the audience.
Accompanying her mother was clever
Dr. Gwen McGirr, who goes off next
month to make a study of obstetrics at
the famed Dublin Rotunda. Another
Della Chiesa concert tomorrow night at
the Town Hall.
So you’ve sent a cheque and a few
coupons to the Food for Britain Fund!
Now, isn’t it time for another donation
and a few more coupons? Listen to this:
Today to my surprise and pleasure a
most beautiful parcel arrived for me. I
really don’t know how to start saying
“thank you.” It seems incredible that
people like you Australians are living in
the same world as we live in. You are
so far away from all that is going on here
that it would be understandable if you felt
rather sorry for things being as they are,
but to have a parcel of such valuable
things sent to me, a perfect stranger,
touches me deeply. It is very comforting
to us, too, to know that our own people
so far away have such kindly feelings to
us.
The writer of that letter had an only
son. He was pilot of a Halifax, and he
didn’t come back in June, 1943.
Here’s a peep into another letter:
Your Australian cheese is wonderful, and
always welcome. We are told there is little
or no prospect of our good old-fashioned
English cheeses figuring on our tables
again—and with Mussolini went all the
delicious Parmesan. It would seem that
Food is a topic that mentally fills half of
one’s day, leaving a very few hours for the
nourishment of the mind. But we have had
an exhibition which the French lent of
tapestries from the Chateaux. They. are
unbelievably lovely, taking us back to an
age when time was apparently unlimited
and weaving a labor of love. They are
mostly from chateaux on the Loire. They
have brought joy (and temporary for-
getfulness of rationing) to us, and one can
only be thankful that they did not find
their end at Berchtesgaden!
Mrs. Lars Jorstad, wife of the Nor-
wegian Minister, paid the presswomen of
Sydney the compliment of wearing her
national costume when she entertained
them at a late-afternoon party at which
Norwegian drinks and dishes were
served. This costume was also worn by
two of the ladies from the consular office
who assisted her. Mrs. Jorstad’s black
frock was hand-embroidered in rich reds
and gold; her House, with its bishop’s
sleeves, was of fine, white lawn.
Letter from Eileen Manley, who with
her husband. Major Manley, is now in
Washington. They have met the Kenneth
Greenes. He is the newly-appointed
High Commissioner for Canada in Aus-
tralia. Mrs. Manley says they are plea-
sant and friendly and should be popular
here. The Greenes are bringing a ’teen-
old daughter to Australia with them.
From Melbourne
Seventy-six auxiliaries of the Women s
Hospital gave a party recently at the
Hospital to Matron McDonald, who is
retiring after 20 years’ of service. Mrs.
R. G. Menzies, president of the Com-
bined Auxiliaries, presented Matron Mc-
Donald with a wallet of notes,' and the
president of the Heidelberg auxiliary
gave her a bouquet of home-grown
orchids. Matron McDonald also received
a cake with 20 candles from Mrs, W. S.
Cox. Other guests present included Mrs.
Norman Harris, president of the hospital,
and committee members Mrs. A. E.
Kimpton, Mrs. E. Cornfoot, Lady Leitch
and Mesdames Karl Kumm, Lytton
Stephens and A. T- Little.
Those popular Americans Helen Wes-
sells and Eleanor Booth, of the U.S. In-
formation Library, were guests of honor
at a parly given by the chairman, Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, and members of the
ladies committee of the Australian-
American Association in the Banquet
Room of the Victoria Helen pinned
orchids' in the aqua-blue bolero she
wore over a brown frock ; Eleanor was
in black, with a tasselled Cossack cap
adding to her stature. -Mrs. R. G. Casey’s
Persian-lamb coat was worn with a black
hat. Thelma Naunton’s black suit was
trimmed with Persian lamb ; Pam Hol-
land wore a beige fox cape with her black
suit. Mrs. George Haines contrasted her
brown suit with a blouse of aqua-blue
crepe, the same shade trimming her brown
felt hat.
Moonee Valley racegoers, trapped in
their basic black-and-brown wools, and
eagerly anticipating the spring, went in
for gay blouses and sweaters, and wore
hats with brilliant-colored ribbons or
flower trimmings. What one touch of
color can do was shown by the small
black hat trimmed with turquoise-blue
plumage and which outlined one cheek,
worn by Mrs. A. L. Walters, wife of Air-
COmmodore Walters. Her tailored coat
was of black cloth. Mrs. Norman Lynch
wore a tailored coat of mustard-and-
black tweed trimmed with large gold
metal buttons ; her high-crowned brilliant-
green felt hat was trimmed with mustard-
and-green ribbons. Among young
country visitors, most of whom are down
for the sheep sales, were Elizabeth Laid-
law, of Hamilton, smart in a cinnamon-
toned suit with gay yellow jumper and
brown hat; Jess Moffatt, of Portland, in
a mustard-and-brown suit and small
brown pill-box hat. Judy Jackman and
Pamela Joynt, both from Adelaide, were
with Jane Lewis. Mrs. Robin Garing,
who was with Mrs. Owen Dibbes, wore
a blue frock and three-quarter-length
black box jacket and a high-crowned
matching blue hat.
Here is Sydneysider Mrs. Robert
Quentin (she was Shirley Nichols), now
in Melbourne for a brief visit. Shirley
is the wife of the producer who success-
fully presented “Dancing Years” to
Sydney audiences. Her Melbourne
friends have not seen her since she played
“Wendy” to Gwenda Wilson’s “Peter
Pan” in the Christmas pantomime at His
Majesty’s Theatre, and in “The Apricot
Tree,” produced by Derek Prentice.
Shirley is busy sightseeing and gathering
data for the new Aztec edition of “High-
lights of Melbourne.”
Late-winter blossoms and fragrant
stocks comprised the decorations in the
reception-rooms and the marquee set in
the garden of the home of Mrs. David
Thomas in Toorak, where her daughter
Pat’s wedding reception was held. The
marquee was so arranged that a silver
birch growing in the lawn was included
in the floral decorations. The Rev. Dr.
John Mackenzie, who had celebrated the
marriage of the bridegroom’s parents and
christened both the bridegroom and his
mother at the Toorak Presbyterian
Church, officiated at the wedding, which
took place in the same church. The
bride, Patricia Alice Mary, is the only
daughter of Mrs. Thomas and the late
David Thomas, of Toorak, formerly of
Burwood and Lindfield, N.S.W., and the
bridegroom, Flight-Lieut. John Hobson
Hooke, 0.8. E., D.F.C., R.A.A.F., elder
son of Mr, and Mrs/ Harry Hobson
Hooke, of Yerabin, Buangor. The bride,
who was given away by her brother,
Squadron-Leader Andrew D. Thomas,
R.A.A.F., wore a gown of white net over
taffetas with the bouffant, two-tiered
skirt extending into a train. There was
niching at the neckline and sleeves. Her
Limerick lace veil, over 200 years old,
was lent by the bridegroom’s great-aunt,
Mrs. Herbert C. Hooke, The bride’s
bouquet was of gardenias and camellias,
and she also carried an ivory-bound
Bible, a gift from her late father.
Elizabeth Hooke, sister of the ’groom,
was bridesmaid. Her white crepe gown
was cut on classical lines, the net yoke of
the bodice appliqued with leaves and
flowers. She wore a Juliet cap of silver
lace and carried red roses and carnations.
The bridegroom’s brother Brian was best-
man. At the reception Mrs. Thomas re-
ceived the guests wearing an attractive
gown of dove-grey crepe with a cape of
burgundy crepe and matching flowers in
her tiny black hat. Among the guests
were Mesdames Tom Kneen and Bill
Harker; both schoolgirl friends of the
bride. Other guests included Brigadier
Tovell, M.L.A., and Mrs. Tovell; Mr.
and Mrs. Dick Hood, Geelong; Mr. and
Mrs. Evan Cameron, Buangor, and Mrs.
Michael O’Sullivan, of Casterton.
The chairman of the Victoria League,
Mrs. Cairns Officer, has announced that
the League in Victoria had decided to
inaugurate a “shilling a member” fund
to provide a wedding present for Princess
Elizabeth. Branches Of the Victoria
League in all States are circularising their
members, and an enthusiastic response is
anticipated. There are 2500 members of
the Victoria League in this State.
A very handy gentleman to have
around the house would be Alphonse
Berge (The Great Drapo), who is in the
current show at the Tivoli. Women
members of the audience were enthralled
at the miracles he wrought with a few
lengths of materials, for in the twinkling
of an eye he had draped his models in
gowns which were indeed creations. One
gown in black velvet had a halter bodice
of gleaming gold tissue ; another, of deep
turquoise-blue crepe, had bands of silver
fame at the hipline and neck. From a
length of shimmering off-white satin he
created a wedding gown that any girl
would sigh for. As usual, the Tivoli
ballet was well dressed; the bold stripes
and plaids of gay taffeta were effectiveiy
used in a Cockney scene. Among first-
nighters were Roy and Hazel Honey-
man and the Norman Sprys.
Margaret Lorraine Rigg, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. C. R. Rigg, of Toorak,
wore a beautiful veil of Limerick lace
with her bridal gown of white French
crepe when she was married to William
Francis Wallace at the Melbourne
Grammar School Chapel by Rev. Lloyd
Whitfield. The gown was fashioned with
the fullness in the skirt falling in front
and a long train at the back. The long-
sleeved bodice was finished with a pearl-
embroidered collar. The bride’s aunt,
Mrs. James Burns, of Sydney, lent the
•veil. The bridesmaids were Margaret
Viney, of Launceston, and the bride-
groom’s sister Jacqueline. They wore
ice-blue moire taffeta frocks featuring the
popular off-the-shoulder neckline and
wide bouffant skirt and carried bouquets
of red camellias. John Wallace was his
brother’s bestman and Bryan Rigg,
brother of the bride, was groomsman.
The reception was held at 14 Queens-
road.
Mrs. Olive Thring opened the Fleisch-
mann-Dadswell Exhibition of Sculptures
at the Velasquez Gallery, Sydneysiders
are acquainted with the work of these
sculptors, but it was the first time Mel-
burnians had been faced with the impos-
ing array of figures fashioned from wood,,
terra-cotta, plastic and cement. Mrs.
Thring wore a smart black suit and a
wide-brimmed lime-green felt hat
trimmed with black velvet, and pinned
her presentation orchid in silver-fox furs.
Mrs. N. Sell, from Sydney, set off her
black suit with a beige-and-brown felt
hat with its brown feather mount. Mrs.
Henry Rosenthal’s natty pale-gold felt
hat trimmed with black coq feathers
went with her black outfit. Lady Knox
trimmed her black hat with aqua-bluo
ostrich feathers and wrapped herself in a
black Persian-lamb coat. Among others
admiring the sculptures were Mesdames
Arthur Prince and Eric Prince, the
French Vice-Consul, Roger Loubere, and
Frank Thring, who leaves next month for
England on the Strathedea.


Have You Made
a Will?
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a
will because it is regarded as a final and
irrevocable step. But a will may be altered
or changed completely any number of times
during the life of its maker.
In all cases it is advisable to engage the ser-
vices of a solicitor, and, in appointing
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Ltd. as Executor, you avail yourself
of the services of Australia’s oldest trustee
company. It has more than 68 years’
practical experience in estate administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray}
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K,. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WARES DIRECTORS;
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Vic tori* in 1878.
J
fd
KqbOkw
Bobb©Utfsß&
On the breast of the blue waters wide,
Where the white crested waves flow free
Over the surge of the ocean tide;
Great ships in the depth of their holds
Are bearing a remedy sure
Unfailing for coughs and colds
Woods” Great Peppermint Care,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries
Electricity Meter and Subsidiaries.
Net f Divs. v To R e ‘
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1939.. 74,557 6 p.c. 7$ p.c. 41,341 33,216 30,909
Net addition reserves, £23,425 .. 54,334
1940.. 68,660 6 p.c. 7J p.c. 62,411 16,249 70,583
1941.. 49,163 6 „ 6$ „ 45,931 3,232 73,815
1942.. 46,078 6 „ 6 „ 44,334 1,744 75,559
Share premiums, £48,653 .. .. 124,212
Net reduction reserves, £11,138 .. 113,074
1943.. 57,900 6 p.c. 6 p.c. *50,241 7,659 120,733
Added intangibles,- £9113 .. .. 111,620
Added reserves, £15,666 .. .. 127,286
1944.. 61,944 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 50,241 11,703 138,989
Share premiums, £13,650 .. .. 152,639
Added intangibles, £4109 .. .. 148,530
Net reduction reserves, £44,765 .. 103,765
1945.. 62,285 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 51,921 10,364 114,129
Share premiums, £154,781 .. ~ 268,910
P. & 1. deficits new subsids., £26,695.. 242,215
Add intangibles, £25,642 .. .. 216,673
Net addition reserves, £12,391 .. 229,064
1946. .113,978 6 p.c. p.c. 85,992 27,986 257,050
* After deducting goodwill, etc., and allowing for
difference between cost and par value shares in
subsidiaries.
Outstanding feature of the accounts of
this big and energetic manufacturing
organisation is continued expansion by
absorption and otherwise. Since the
public became interested in 1936 —twp
years after the present holding co. fused
in one control the interests of Electricity
Meter and Manufacturing Co. and New
System Telephones—paid capital has
shot up from £570,000-odd to £1,166,691
at end 1946. Also, £250,000 of 4 p.c.
debenture money was gathered over the
last two years.
There are now 21 subsidiaries in the
group—five olf them were added last
year—which covers a wide field of indus-
trial activity. And most of the units are
old-established concerns enjoying a wide
goodwill. Manufactures include elec-
tricity meters, motors, magnetos and
switch gear, radios, refrigerators, vacuum
cleaners, washing machines, plastics,
cutlery, petrol and other pumps, oil
engines, air-conditioning apparatus, irri-
gation and telephone equipment, stoves
and all kinds of gas and hot-water appli-
ances.
Early last term the co. took over the
Commonwealth munitions factory with
300,000 square feet of floor space, at
Orange, N.S.W., where two of the sub-
sidiaries (Electricity Meter Manufacturing
and Elkon Pty.) are now operating on
mass-production lines. The co. also pur-
chased from Parkinson and Cowan (Lon-
don) three manufacturing concerns which
had been established in Australia for
many years—Parkinson, Cowan (A’sia)
Pty. (gas meters, etc.), Parkinson Stove
Co. (Aus.) Pty. (gas stoves, etc.) and Hugh
Hartford Pty. (hot-water appliances, etc.).
The purchase price for the three was
£370,115, met by issue of 248,817 f.-p.
E.M.A.I.L. ords. at 295. 9d. each. In
addition, Airzone (1931), Ltd, (paid
capital £85,350), manufacturers of radios,
etc., was taken over at an unstated figure
as from Jan, 1, 1946, and is now operat-
ing at profit. A new subsidiary, British
Oil Engines (A’sia) Pty., was formed in
association with British Oil Engines
(Exports), Ltd., of London, to manu-
facture and/or import oil engines of from
1 h.p. to 1400 h.p. And the 70-year-old
business of James Balfour and Co. Pty.,
distributing agents for several units of
the group, was acquired at an unstated
amount.
After allowing for taxation and depre-
ciation, the board figured net earnings at
£113,978 (up £51,693). That covered the
pref. div. (£6000) and 10.1 p.c. on ord.
capital compared with 7.3, 7.5, 7, 6.2, 6.7,
9.8 and 14.5 p.c. back to 1939. It leaves
out of the reckoning various adjustments
(interlined in the table) associated with
the formation and acquisition of the new
subsidiaries. The div. was lifted from
6 p.c. to 1\ p.c. After paying this, mak-
ing the adjustments just referred to and
deducting intangibles (£172,577), reserves
benefited by £142,921 net, raising them
to £257,050.
It was an encouraging performance
considering the upswing of costs gener-
ally, and the expense inevitably associated
with the development at Orange, with
the extension and re-equipping of other
manufacturing units, and with the forma-
tion and reorganisation of newly-acquired
subsidiary interests. In all sections of
the undertaking demand ran ahead of
production, which was restricted by short-
ages of materials and skilled labor,
absenteeism and the engineers’ strike in
Victoria.
The year’s growth of £301,339 in share
capital, and of £154,781 in share premium
account, reflects the five new subsidiaries
added to the list. To help expansion of
existing undertakings an extra £lOO,OOO
of 4 p.c. debenture money was gathered;
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries and
Subsidiaries.
' 1839. 1944. 1945. 1940.
_ £ £ £ £
Parent’s capital.. 571,218 837,352 865,352 1,166,691
Outside interests* 12,987 30,006 51,615 44,708
Debentures . . 150,000 260,000
Sundry creditors! 144,786 316,433 523,889 990,068
Freehold, plant,
„ etc 185,652 338,232 408,564 760,271
Stocks .. .. 231,364 540,817 668,505 1,119,900
Debtors’ balances
etc. .. ..268,167 839,594 520,058 823,518
Cash and deposits 110,007 111,260 204,918 82,707
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision.
The net growth in the book value of
fixed assets was £351,707, stocks £451,455
and debtors’ balances £303,460. Cash,
etc., was drawn upon for £122,211. The
more or less liquid surplus (£756,178)
was £87,726 stronger than at the previous
balance. A further 153,016 £1 ords.
have been issued for cash at a premium
of 10s. each since the close of accounts.
Though the immediate outlook favors
further improvement in turnover, the full
benefit of this will be largely offset by
the continued rise in costs. And, when
supply catches up with demand, compe-
tition can be expected to get more of an
edge on it, which means finer profit
margins.
At 38s. the f.-p. pound ords., covered
by 245. lOd. in net tangibles, return a
wink under 4 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis.
The well-protected pound prefs. (there
are only 100,000 of them) yield 3.8 p.c.
at 31s.
Brooklands Accessories, Ltd. (Melb.)
I Brooklands Accessories and Subsidiary.
r -1 Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves.serves.*
££< £ £ £
1938.. 7,638 73 8 p.c. = 3600 3965 3,325
Written off assets, £lB3B .. ~ 1,487
1939.. 7,823 948 8 p.c. = 3600 3275 4,762
1940.. 7,324 1750 8 „ „ 3600 1974 6,736
1941.. 5,453 1750 8 „ „ 3600 103 6,839
1942.. 5,536 1750 8 „ „ 3600 186 7,025
1943.. 7,959 1750 10 „ „ 4500 1709 8,734
1944.. 10,501 1750 10 „ „ 4500 4251 12,985
1945.. 10,842 1750 10 „ „ 4500 4592 17,577
1946.. 13,409 1750 10 „ „ 4500 7159 24,736
Goodwill- increased, £BOOO .. .. 16,736
1947.. 13,405 1750 12i p.c. = 8715 2940 19,676
* After deducting book-value of goodwill (now
£14,000).
After 10 years as a public co., Brook-
lands Accessories can look back —and
forward—with much satisfaction. War-
time restrictions prevailed during most of
the period, but were less unkind to a
business of this type, distributing spares
and replacement parts, than to other
sections of the motor trade. Besides
paying good divs., the board widened the
co.’s scope for the future, and probably
strengthened its finances more than
appears outwardly.
When formed in 1923, Brooklands was
a proprietary, and the subsidiary of
Allied Motor Interests, Ltd. Becoming
independent six years later, it remained
a private co. until 1938. Allied Motor
Interests has retained a small holding of
its ords. (about 3000). Brooklands’ chair-
man, M. Shmith, is also chairman of
Ruskin Motor Bodies, Ltd., whose ord.
capital belonged entirely to Allied Motor
Interests until the recent deal with Austin
Co. ojf England (B, 9/7/’47); and Mr.
Shmith is also vice-chairman of York
Motors (Holding), Ltd.
By 1938 Brooklands held Victorian
agencies for a wide range of automobile
components, including Olympic tyres and
parts for all General Motors vehicles.
The co.’s subsidiary, Starting, Lighting,
Ignition Pty,, Ltd., handled the “Lucas”
brand of electrical accessories, used ex-
tensively in British cars and motor-cycles.
Until 1943, tax-paid divs. from the sub-
sidiary accounted for more than one-fifth
of the parent’s net profit. The ratio fell
in subsequent years, but last term the
subsidiary acquired several new agencies
for well-known British lines (such as
K.L.G. plugs) and after tax it passed on
£6OOO to the parent.
In the foregoing table, combined profit
for 1947 is identical with that for 1946.
But last term an extra £11,754 was set
aside for income-tax, the provision being
£29,810. The hand of the so-called
“war-time” co. tax is admittedly
heaviest on efficient concerns like Brook-
lands, but it would still appear that direc-
tors were modest in declaring net profit.
Tax paid in 1946 was itself £8359 more
than in 1945, though net profit rose by
£2567 only.
Early last term, Brooklands took over
as a going concern the automotive divi-
sion of Gibson, Battle and Co. Pty., in
Sydney. This involved new agencies as
well as a freehold property (warehouse
and service station combined) at corner
of Liverpool and Crown-streets. Results
of the venture have so far proved satis-
factory. It has caused freeholds to appear
in the balance-sheet for the first time, and
raised goodwill by £8000:
Brooklands Accessories and Subsidiary.
1938. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital. . £57,600 £70,000 £70,000 £94,725
Creditors 7 „„ „„„ ( 26,682 87,690 61,632
Tax provision | ‘ io ’ ouo \ n,UB 20,108 29,810
Freeholds .. 17,000
Leaseholds .. 1,100 18,976 18,496 18,015
Plant and fittings 4,027 3,298 8,439 12,675
Stocks . . 46,482 82,163 47,010 79,094
Debtors .. 37,864 28,004 43,001 79,657
Cash .. . . 3,634 47,075 88,202 8,997
Goodwill . . 6,000 6,000 6,000 14,000
Leaseholds include the co.’s head-
quarters in South and country
branches at Bendigo and Horsham (Vic.).
New acquisitions and greater activity last
term caused a rise of £32,804 in stocks
and £35,996 in debtors’ balances. These
were met by reducing cash (by £29,265)
and increasing liabilities (by £33,644). In-
crease of £20,755 in fixed assets was
covered by a new issue of £24,725 in ord.
capital last September. Capital now com-
prises 25,000 7 p.c. cum. £1 prefs. and
69,725 £1 ords.
The ords., quoted below par in 1939
and jammed at the official ceiling of
255. 9d. until last December, brought 445.
when the share register was closed re-
cently. Latter price is cum a dividend
of 2s. 6d. per share, payable in August.
Net price of 41s. 6d. would provide an
effective yield of 6.1 p.c. on basis of the
latest div., which includes a “bonus” of
2\ p.c. On a 10 p.c, div. basis, yield
would be 4.8 p.c. Prefs. are priced
around 30s. ex div., yielding 5 p.c. Net
tangible asset backing is 995. 2d. for each
pref. and 28s. sd. for the ords.
National Reliance Investment Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
& £,£>£>
' 1937.. 11,714 6 p.c. = 10,427 1287 53,184
Unexplained addition, £4528 .. 57,712
1938.. 1fi,304 6 p.c. = 14,112 2192 59,904
Capital loss, etc., £846 .. .. 59,058
1939.. 11,310 4-J p.c. = 11,250 60 59,118
Capital loss, etc., £4781 .. .. 54,337
1940.. 11,948 41 p.c. = 11,250 698 55,035
Capital loss, etc., £3637 .. .. 51,398
1941.. 13,569 4i p.c. = 11,250 2319 53,717
Capital loss, etc., £4775 .. .. 48,942
1942.. 10,055 3} p.c. = 9,375 680 49,622
Capital loss, etc., £728 .. .. 48,894
1943.. 9,660 3J p.c. = 9,375 285 49,179
Capital loss, etc.,- £7O .. .. 49,109
1944.. 10,638 4 p.c. = 10,000 638 49,747
Capital loss, etc., £45 .. .. 49,702
1945.. 11,625 4 p.c. = 10,000 1625 51,327
Capital loss, etc., £7O .. .. 51,257
1946.. 10,931 4 p.c. = 10,000 931 52,188
Capital gain, £1767 .. .. 53,955
1947.. 12,808 4i p.c. = 10,802 2006 55,961
A well-managed investment co. offers
many advantages, especially to the small
investor. It provides him with expert
service, as well as a judicious spread of
risks, and relieves him of the anxiety of
managing to the best advantage a small
porfolio. By spreading funds over a
wide range of securities the risk of violent
fluctuations in earnings, and therefore in
divs., is reduced. Divs., however, are
usually moderate until substantial reserves
are built up to support and assist the
share capital. These reserves accrue largely
from capital profits derived from changes
in securities as favorable opportunities
offer. The shares are, therefore, essen-
tially a long-term investment.
The National Reliance, which kicked
off in the early 1930’5, has never failed
to pay a div. The rate stepped up from
2\ px. in 1931 to 6 p.c. for the three
years to the close of accounts in 1938,
when £59,904 of. reserves had been
accumulated. Then came war and with
it a fall in the market price of securities
and decline in returns therefrom. How-
ever, the management was able to pull
out of the New York and London markets
and reinvest the funds in Australia and
Maoriland without serious mishap. For
the three years to end March, 1941, 4|
p.c. was paid, followed by 3|, 3| and then
three lots of 4 p.c. to the close of last
accounts, when reserves totalled £55,961
With an economic background of
accumulated demand and shortage of
supplies, and with the lifting of Stock
Exchange restrictions in Australia from
end 1946, the co.’s prospects have
brightened considerably. To take ad-
vantage of the investment opportunities
offered by expansion of existing indus-
tries and development of new ones.
£50,000 of fresh capital was gathered at
par shortly before the close of last


Miscellaneous.
EXECUTlVES—Opportunity to secure the services ol
PRIVATE SECRETARY (male). Highly experienced
in top positions 35 years. Comm, salary £5OO.
No. 322 C/o '“Bulletin,” Sydney.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Aim 1 .
Trailers and Semi-Trailers
Ground loading, no lifting. Designed for
your locality and requirements. One-
inan loading. Inquiries Invited.
L. GREENE
239 WIEEIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 004, G.P.0., Sydney. FA 1380.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson
osuixivan , /
. a prtUD A
fc»S BRw
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS *
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance Free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defi-
nitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed
no matter where you :
live Call or send stamp lor details. Self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSELi APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27) 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
and pave the way for
a Prosperous Future
Write Now!
BOX* 17. P. 0..
CHATSWOOD. N.S.W.
Q
V
Airway Cases, In
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvas
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited . . .
but increasing!
Mode by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
A GOODYEAR first
THAT LED TO QUALITY
MASS PRODUCTION
I
L
m
'j
m \\m
mi n\u\u
N\AU\HI
When Goodyear introduced its
revolutionary tyre-building machine in 1908, production
was increased ten times in three years. This machine
was so successful that by 1920 some fifty rubber manu-
facturers were using it under Goodyear license. It
' enabled mass production with a uniform quality not
previously possible. It was another Goodyear first
one of many which took Goodyear to leadership in
the tyre industry by 1915.
Now, for 32 years, it has been true that
MORE PEOPLE THE WORLD OVER RIDE ON
GOODYEAR
every year
lor B 2 years
-you don't stay FIRST unless you re best
accounts. The management hadn’t time
to get all the new money out before the
books were ruled off:
1939. 1942. 1946. 1917.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £260,000 £300,000
Liabilities* .. 154,809 58,747 70,318 69,264
Tax reserve.. 989 927 1,429 2,755
Investments.. 428,251 857,656 367,248 383,315
Sundry debtors 16,030 1,280 335
elfish .. . . 28,888 9,735 6,152 43,443
* Includes provision for div.
The cash holding increased by £37,291
and investments by £16,067. Owing to
the rise in price of securities, the market
value of investments at end March ex-
ceeded their book value (cost) by
£112,268, an appreciation of 29.3 p.c. as
against 14.6 p.c. at thfe previous balance.
And prices have continued to rise since
the close of accounts.
After providing for taxation, the net
return from investments, etc., was £1877
better at £12,808, or approx 5 p.c. on
capital employed, compared with A .4, 4 6
4.2, 3.8, 4 and 5.4 p.c. back to 1 941. The
div. was kept at 4 p.c., leaving £2006 for
reserves, which were further strengthened
by £1767 of capital profit from changes
of investments.
Chairman Stan Ricketson takes an
optimistic view of the future. Condi-
tions,” he says, “indicate no logical
reasons for any material lessening ol tn
underlying and inherent strength of share-
market prices.” Certainly bull points pre-
dominate at the moment. These include
(1) a buoyant national income, (2) sup-
port from the pool of investable fun s
available, (3) comparative scarcity ot
avenues of investment, (4) upward trend
of prices for goods and services, (5) torc-
ing down of interest rates and (6) buying
of industrials by life offices. However,
so far as share prices are concerned, the
market appears to be approaching con-
ditions of equilibrium. The whole back-
ground of trade and industry, national
and international, is becoming very fluid.
It points to the need for care in the
selection of securities.
At 11s. 4d. the co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares
return 3.5 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. Based on market values at
end March, net tangible cover was 15s. 7d.
a share.
In its widespread hunt for base metals
Zinc Corp. has taken a two-years lease
of ground on the old Wallaroo-Moonta
copper field from, the South Aus. Gov-
ernment for £lOOO, plus an annual rental
of £250. If the results of geological and
geophysical surveys are sufficiently en-
couraging, drilling and development will
follow. The Wallaroo and Moonta
deposits were first discovered in 1860 and
1861 respectively, and up to 1922 had
yielded about £25,000,000-worth of
copper. The two mines were amal-
gamated in 1890, and worked by the Wal-
laroo and Moonta Mining and Smelting
Co. until 1922, when the co. gave up,
“owing to the extremely depleted state ol
the copper market and continued high
cost of production.” For the year to
June 30, 1922, the co. showed a loss ot
£lO9 356. Copper was then around £62
stg. a ton as against £97 stg. two years
earlier. No serious attempt to work the
area has been made since. However, the
S. Aus. Government, which put up a small
flotation plant to treat gouger’s ore dur-
ing the depression of the early 1930 s,
has done a lot of drilling and geological
work, which have suggested the possible
existence of new bodies of pay ore at
depth—24ooft. in the area between the
Taylor and Hogg lodes. Zinc Corp.
obviously considers evidence of these pos-
sibilities strong enough to warrant a
thorough prospecting campaign.
* * * *
“Esk D”: It was with no great
astonishment that I read (B. 2/7/’47) that
Mr. Chifley said NO to a Westrahan
Chamber of Mines deputation asking for
a bounty on gold production. If gold-
mining is to be maintained merely as a
means for providing employment and
keeping towns in existence, and the Gov-
ernment apparently hasn’t any real vision
beyond this, then the industry should be
at least allowed to find its own footing
with gold at its full value. The gold
tax, which clips off half the price over
£9 a fine ounce, irrespective of whether
mined at profit or loss, should be
abolished. Higher production costs de-
mand an increase in gold price to return
the goldmines to their pre-war standing.
Admittedly, there has been a welcome
rise in the price of gold, but the gilt dis-
appears with the 50 per cent, rake-off
in tax. Against Mr. Chifley’s reckoning
that gold is useful at the moment only
in producing dollars, and not a very great
aggregate amount of dollars at that, it
may be argued that the aggregated gold
tax can’t be sufficiently large to warrant
its continuance as an economic measure.
Keeping the tax on is likely to mean
the eventual closing of a number of big
mines on low-grade ore, and it’s these
big producers, which, incidentally, pro-
vide a good deal of mining employment,
that will be needed urgently when gold
returns to its rightful place in world
affairs.
• • • •
Summarising 1946 development in Gt.
Boulder (W.A.), manager J. R. Hylton
says that although footage above 3.2dwt.
a ton was lower than for 1945, average-
grade of individual blocks of new ore
was higher. Total ore reserves at
2,448,808 tons, averaging 5.4dwt., show
an increase of 56,382 tons and an im-
provement in grade of O.ldwt. The in-
creased tonnage is the result mainly of
better widths in the stopes, and of en-
largement of a number of single-horizon
ore blocks by winzes and rises. The im-
provement in grade follows on better
development results and elimination of a
number of low-grade ore blocks.
Diamond drilling for the year totalled
18,015 ft. or 11,756 ft. more than for 1945.
Several new objectives were opened up,
and test drilling of stope walls indicated
greater widths in some cases. Machinery
and equipment, both underground and
on the surface, was reconditioned. The
rise in costs to 345. 7.95 d. per ton was due
to (1) increased stope preparation, previ-
ously delayed by scarcity of mining
timber, (2) employment of unskilled men,
(3) reconditioning machinery and equip-
ment, (4) greater proportion of ore
derived from filled stopes, and (5) in-
creases in the basic wage, additional, holi-
days and higher prices for electric power
and firewood.
* * * *
London-controlled Hampton Go I d
Mining Areas, operating on Block 59
near Coolgardie, has crushed 606
tons of development ore for 2300 z. gold
over the plates, with an estimated 3jdwt.
a ton in the residues. This, the manage-
ment says, is highly encouraging. A
second parcel of 94 tons averaged 15dwt.
from the plates, with an average ojf
3dwt. in the residues.
* * * *
From London: Under the new Com-
panies Act, now before the British Parlia-
ment, directors of the age of 70 and over
cannot carry on unless shareholders pass
a special resolution at a meeting calle
for that purpose. A number of members
of Anglo-Australian mining cos.’ boards
are well over the age prescribed in the
Act, but most feel younger than their
years, and are still very active. Opinion
in the city is that shareholders value their
experience and judgment, and, in most
cases, will carry special resolutions it
asked to do so.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co.’s chairman is going to
Canberra, if he is not already there, to
see what he can do about persuading the
Federal Government to recondition the
co.’s boring plant.


SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Adtfocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
THE SYDNEY BOOK CLUB
AUSTRALIA’S LEADING CIRCULATING LIBRARY
Some Books of Distinction Available to Members:—
TOP SECRET. An uncensored inside
story by Ralph Ingersoll.
JOURNEY THROUGH TO-MORROW,
by G. H. Johnson.
R.A.A.E. OVER EUROPE, by Frank
Johnson.
TWENTY AUSTRALIAN NOVELISTS,
by Colin Roderick.
THE ROAD TO CANBERRA, by
Warren Denning.
CRIMINAL DAYS, by Travers Hum-
phreys.
CIANO’S DIARY, 1939-1943.
WE OF THE TURNING TIDE. Story
of Alamein, by David Goodhart.
EGO 8, by Charles Agate.
OSCAR WIEDE, by Hesketh Pearson.
MONTGOMERY. A biography, by Alan
Moorehead.
SALT WATER FISHING, by Van
Campen Hellner.
EORD’S, 1787-1945, by Sir Pelham
Warner.
C. p. SCOTT, 1846-1932. The Making
of the “Manchester Guardian.”
Catalogue Post Free to Any Address on Application
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. MA 6511.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HENRY BALE late of Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that HARRY
CLARENCE BASSFORD' has filed a Petition No. 1474
of 1947 for Divorce from MARGARET BASSFORD
on the ground of her adultery with you If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by 29th August 1947 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from WILLIAM CHARLES
MOSELEY, Solicitor, 51 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA-
In Divorce.
TO CLEMENT HEROLD COLLIS formerly of
Bathurst in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that a petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice to you to appear and answer
the charges in the Petition of EILEEN JOY COLLIS
of Hobart in Tasmania praying for dissolution of
marriage In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said petition proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid
within thirty days after the publication of this
notice an appearance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court* of Tasmania Macquarie
street Hobart. — (1.5.) J. R. REX, Principal Registrar.
N.B. —Friends of the abovenamed CLEMENT
HEROLD COLLIS who see this advertisement are re-
quested to bring it under his notice.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Sydney Art Shows.
Three Sydney art shows —Herbert Mc-
Clintock’s at the Studio of Realist Art,
Sali Herman’s at the Macquarie Galleries,
and William Constable’s exhibition of
designs for ballet and drama at David
Jones—have all been patronised by the
N.S.W. National Art Gallery.
The Gallery paid 100 guineas for
Herman’s “Park at the Cross,” a fairly
large painting showing the park as a
smear of unnatural green and a well-
known piece of King’s Cross —or Pott’s
Point —architecture. This, and the
majority of the other paintings, effectively
illustrate Herman’s major capacity—an
ability to paint houses on canvas with
due regard to roughness and smoothness
and in a manner that suggests the paint
on the original. But that, after all, is a
minor talent, a trick of the trade. And
since the Gallery has a good many Her-
mans, it should not be necessary to add
to them the most highly-priced—and by
no means the best —picture in the exhibi-
tion. For the rest, the pictures demon-
strate Herman’s imperfect treatment of
light and his deliberate gloom. There is
a large assortment of slum property, both
rural and metropolitan. “Change and
Decay,” a study of masonry with the
emphasis on the corruption, is typical of
the city pictures; “Hotel at Cobar,” re-
markable for lack of light and strange
men, with arms akimbo, puppet legs and
red slashes of faces, is typical of the
Herman conception of the country.
Herbert McClintock’s paintings are on
the same key, but have more virility in
them. Whatever the motive, McClintock
has lately become more interested in
character than in sociology, and the
change is reflected in the great power and
range of his “Faces in the Street” and
the red and rugged “Foundry Accident.”
The Gallery paid 30 guineas for “Street
Scene.”
William Constable is well known as the
best of Australia’s stage designers, but
his work can hardly be viewed strictly as
art. The proper way to appreciate it
would seem to be to see, not the sketches,
but the completed work, in the theatres.
At the Macquarie he shows a design for
“Romeo and Juliet’* (projected Minerva
Production, 1944) and the gemlike setting
for Lope de Vega’s “The Pastrymaker”
(Mercury Theatre Production), and in a
design for the ballet “Corroboree”
distance and design and native character-
istics are admirably combined.
Hence, although it seems just enough
for an artist of Constable’s calibre to
have some recognition by the N.S.W.
National Art Gallery, it is difficult to
approve of its purchase of “Costumes
for Two Players in New Theatre Produc-
tion, Moliere’s ‘A Physician in Spite of
Himself.’ ”
Dello Chiesa.
The American lyric soprano has a
voice of fine quality which ranged, in
a wide variety of songs during her first
two Sydney concerts, over from two and
a half to three octaves with the extremes
of the registers still unreached.
Miss Chiesa’s opera is sure and strong.
Elvira’s great aria “Ernani Involami,”
from Verdi’s “Ernani,” was an admir-
able blending of the despair and yearning
of a distraught woman who cries' for her
absent lover to rescue her from the
threat of a hateful marriage. The “Pace
Pace,” from the same composer’s “La
Forza Del Destino,” culled some ring-
ing head notes.
The refinement that is inherent in the
voice and in the manner in which it is
used was exemplified in Scarlatti’s gentle
“La Violette,” Torelli’s “Tu Lo Sai” and
Donaudy’s beautiful lament “O Del Mio
Amato Ben” —the last-named song
notable for flawless legato phrasing and
a highly skilled use of the mezza voce.
Delibes’s “Bonjour Susan” was a morsel
of impishness and coquettishness. The
Chiesa injected a shot of robust humor
into “Le Coucou,” a folksong of the
Auvergne, and “Mr. Banjo,” a Creole
folksong in which the singer gaily whistled
the final stanza. Massenet’s lovely
“Elegie” didn’t need the violin obbligato
which is to often given, for the soprano’s
tone itself approximated, on certain notes,
the broad mellowness of a well-played
fiddle. Fire was supplied with Rossini’s
“La Danza” and a Spanish song ‘-Carna-
tions” taken at what seemed like super-
sonic speed.
Among English ballads Housman-Peel’s
“Loveliest of Trees” was something that
A BROLLY IN THE BALLE.
Edouard Borovansky as the Toymaker and Edna Basse as the inquisitive
Swanilda in “Coppelia,” one of the ballets in the Borovansky season at
Sydney Royal.
will easily stand hearing again—its inter-
pretation breathed nostalgia. The setting
of Eugene Field’s “Little Boy Blue” was
the essence of pathos, -and an old Scot-
tish air, “Turn Ye To Me,” was another
instance of how many fine little-heard
songs come out of Caledonia.
William Sumner, an excellent accom-
panist, played the Rachmaninoff trans-
cription of Kriesler’s “Liebeslied” and
Granados’s “Maiden and the Nightin-
gale” nicely, but Dohnanyi’s “Rhapsody
in C Major” was not as clean-cut.
In his joint recital with Florence
Taylor at the Sydney Con. Alan Mc-
Eachern, nephew of Malcolm McEachern,
of pleasant memory, revealed a resonant
bass-baritone which retains its fine timbre
over quite a respectable range. He sang
easily and with interpretative skill, a
well-controlled half-voice being a major
asset. Florence Taylor used a naturally
rich contralto with fine artistry in
Brahms’s “Gestillte Sehnsucht,” a song
which also thoroughly tested the flexi-
bility of her voice. Miss Taylor demon-
strated her keen musical intelligence with
a capital rendition of Hugo Wolfe’s diffi-
cult “Der Gartner.” Both voices have
the quality that will stand broadening
and mellowing.
Two Sculptors.
Loud and contradictory clamor arose
at the opening of the show of the two
Sydney sculptors, Lyndon Dadswell and
Dr. Fleischmann, at the Velasquez Gal-
leries, in Melbourne. “Beautiful” and
“ugly” and more or less polite synonyms
for them, like “punk” or “a charmingly
amorphous expression of semi-complete
introspection into a disintegrated per-
sonality,” were bandied about with a vigor
that is seldom heard at Melbourne art
shows.
There were at least two tons of sculp-
ture present, in bronze, plaster, terra-cotta
and cement; and there were some in
plastic which glowed as if they had
electric bulbs inside them. There were
portrait busts which indicated that Dr.
Fleischmann had Cardinal Gilroy, Kube-
lik, Friedman and Jeanne Gautier before
him and there is startling evidence that
Mr. Dadswell had Tom Challen, the
cartoonist, about on some occasion.
There was less evidence for believing that
when Mr. Dadswell did his “Resting
Ballerina” he had a pin-headed, almost
featureless, completely kneeless female
for a model. Nor does the perceptual
world contain anything resembling his
“Reclining Figure,” except, perhaps, in a
pathology museum.
Except in his “Cyrano de Bergerac,” a
comic figure, Dr. Fleischmann hasn’t in-
dulged so much in flights of the imagina-
tion—he is content with straightout and
rather factual description. Cement is
used by both sculptors and it looks like
cement in both cases.
At the Films.
“Welcome Stranger” (Sydney Prince
Edward) : Bing Crosby and the cactus-
like Barry Fitzgerald as a pair of doctors,
both almost as good as they were in
“Going My Way,” Fitzgerald’s lovable
villainy is put to good use in the role of
the elder doctor who spits tacks at most
people, saving the 6in. nails for those
like Bing who sing to him and pinch
his breakfast. Until Bing wins a place
in the old boy’s favor, he is not allowed
to officiate on the dinner table’s turkey,
let alone a patient. Barry’s unhappiness
becomes acute and so does his appendix.
Bing pauses in his singing and attacks
with a five-iron scalpel, leaving Barry
most surprised at his recovery. By the
end of an excellent film Barry regards his
offsider as favorably as he would a five-
pound gallstone, and, in consequent joy,
gives him the practice and the local
schoolteacher and goes off fishing.
* * * *
“Carnegie Hall” (Sydney Century):
Musically, one of the best films seen for
a long time —Rubinstein, Heifetz, Ezio
Pinza, Jan Peerce, Lili Pons, Rise Stevens,
Bruno Walter, Stokowski, Fritz Rainer
and Arthur Rodzinsky are all there and
their playing, singing and conducting are
excellently recorded. Unfortunately, the
story that presents them is a stretch of
sentimental twaddle —a straightout docu-
mentary on Carnegie Hall, presenting the
same artists and musical fare, would
have been a complete winner.
*** , *
“Fiesta” (Sydney St. James): Another
of M.-G.-M.’s expansive technicolor joy-
rides, this one set in Mexico and full 0 f
bullfights, fiestas, dancing and light
romantic nonsense and decorated with
Esther Williams, Cyd Charisse, John
Carroll and Ricardo Montalban.
* * * *
“Margie”; They howled with laughter
at this current offering at Sydney Regent
and that, in income-tax week, was high
tribute. Jeanne Crain gets her inspiration
from various forgotten successes of her
college days—the chain, used by her
grandmother for hitching purposes while
demanding votes for women; a photo-
graph of a college-boy, proud owner of
a bear s-pelt coat; a pair of undergar-
ments still equipped with the weak elastic
which terrified her when a girl; memories
of her college role of champion debater
and her effort with “Should we take the
Marines out of Nicaragua?” Practically
every character in the film provides a
laugh.
* * * «
“Cynthia” (Sydney Liberty): One of
those sentimental family stories, this time
about a ’teen-age girl (Elizabeth Taylor)
whose family, overcautious about her
health, cuts her off from games, parties,
dances, boy friends and the like. She
finally breaks out, of course, to the
amazement of the multitude, and even
inspires her father to abuse his boss and
thus get himself a rise. It looks suspici-
ously like the beginning of a series of the
“Andy Hardy” variety.
*** * *
“The Outlaw” (Sydney Plaza): This
being the film in which the amount of
nakedness displayed by Jane Russell per-
turbed the censors and Hollywood for
a considerable time, it is interesting to
record that neither-Miss Russell nor such
areas of her torso as she displays are of
any consequence whatever; they serve
only to obscure what slight merit the
film does possess. Its one quality is its
presentation of the outlaw Billy the
Kid, Accurate or otherwise, the depic-
tion is interesting and almost credible—
that of a nervy, sullen youth possessed
of no other qualities than bad-tempered
suspicion and the ability to pull a couple
of guns like lightning. The bulk of the
film is made up of the development and
calamitous conclusion of a cagey, watch-
ful friendship that develops between
Billy the Kid and another touchy gun-
man, Doc Holliday, played by Walter
Huston in much the same comical vein
in which he played in the filmed ver-
sion of the “S. E. Post” story “The Devil
and Daniel Webster.” Neither Miss
Russell nor Jack Beutel, who plays Billy
the Kid, displays any noticeable acting
ability, although the latter possibly looks
the part.
* * * *
“The Imperfect Lady” (Sydney State):
Victorian opus about a candidate for a
Parliamentary career (Ray Milland)
whose chances in that line are jeopardised
by the innocent indiscretions of his wife
(Teresa Wright). Before her marriage,
Miss Wright is an actress and, by a tor-
tuous chain of circumstances, is forced
to spend most of one night in the rooms
of a penurious Latin pianist. During
that particular evening a moneylender is
gorily done in, and the pianist is
nabbed for the crime. Miss Wright, of
course, marries in the meantime, and
then has to decide between remaining dis-
creetly silent or coming forward to
provide an alibi for the musician at the
expense of her husband’s good name and
career. The male members of the cast,
including Cedric Hardwicke and Reginald
Owen, manage to speak like Englishmen,
but, unfortunately, most of the women
can only rise to a broad American
accent.
* * * *
“One More Tomorrow” (Mayfair):
Not one like this, please! Except for
a few moments of hilarity from Jack
Carson, a butler who occasionally lets
guests have a drink too, the show is so
flat that any comparison with a pancake
would be gross exaggeration.


No. 13 of Series
Accumulator ...
m
V;V
AN electrical accumulator is simply a chemical
device for storing small quantities of electrical
energy. It consists of a glass or plastic tank con-
taining a number of lead plates immersed in diluted
sulphuric acid. When charged the positive plates
are coated with chocolate brown lead peroxide and
the negative plates with grey spongy lead. When
the current is switched on the positive and negative
are joined and a chemical reaction results between
the plates and the dilute sulphuric acid. During this
discharge period the lead peroxide and the spongy
lead are changed into lead sulphate and energy is
released as an electric current. When you put the
battery “on charge/' the electric currrent reconverts
the lead sulphate into lead peroxide and lead, and
another store of energy is on tap. The British
chemical industry provides your car or
radio battery with its lead, lead per-
sulphuric acid and, if it is a
plastic one, with its container as well.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates IL-27-19
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
On American tracks last year photo.-fimsh
cameras recorded 355 deadbeats, 105 of them
for first place, but Saturday at Rosehill was
the first time in Australia that the camera had
shown the noses of the leading pair exactly
touching the line together. Sharers ot the
honor were Impudent (E. Fordyce) and Circus
Boy (J. Thompson), Impudent being caught
right on the post after leading all the way m
the third Mixed Stakes at seven furlongs.
Hava Chat was third; hot favorite Man At
Arms nowhere. Circus Boy finished particularly,
and very promisingly, fast. His name comes
from his owner, A. Sole, owning Sole’s Circus.
Man At Arms was W. Cook’s mount, and
Cook and Thompson were battling it out tor
leading jockey with little between them on this
last racing day of the season. With Thompson
unable to do better than deadbeat, Cook s
one winner, Stormy—beating Lady Contrast
and Torment in the first seven-furlongs Mixed
Stakes —decided it, making the sixth time Cook
had been premier jockey; claimed as a record
for Sydney racing. S.T.C. chairman W. W. Hill,
handing Cook a money-order to buy his own
trophy, looked like Gulliver amongst the Lilli-
putians. Without having a starter at the meet-
ing, J. W. McCurley, who looks after F. W.
Hughes’s string, won the trophy for leading
trainer.
In the other seven-furlongs Mixed Stakes
Sun King (E. Fordyce) finished nicely to down
Critique about whom the fabulous bet of
£10,500 to £l5OO was reported to have been
written —with Rotoiti third. There was yet
another of these Mixed Stakes; events in which
maiden performers carry 7.7 and others are
weighted according to the class of restricted
company they have won in. The big fields
show them to be very popular with connections,
however they may puzzle punters. The fourth
of them was over 10 furlongs, the N.Z.-bred
Lucky Robin (G. Podmore) easily accounting
for Regal Step, with Devilment third.
Though Sun King—a Bendrodt castoff—didn’t
make the best time of the Mixed Stakers, he
looked the one most likely to go on to better
things. He’s a stoutly-built four-year-old bay
horse by Mr. Standfast-Panland. One of the
unluckiest of the Mixed Stakers has been the
Nuffield four-year-old mare Lady Contrast.
Ridden by E. Doon, she’s been consistently
in places, and, with all due respect to our
brave and gallant ally Chiang Kai-shek and
all that, present observer would like to see
how she’d go for, say, thaf most accomplished
horseman E. Fordyce.
Without much question the best horse saddled
up at the meeting was Murray Stream. He
looked to get into a bit of strife round the
turn in the 10-furlongs Rosehill Handicap and
he possibly wasn’t fully wound-up; but
he did some nice galloping between the
leger and the winning-post, even though
Haymarket (A. Ward), getting over a stone
from him, was holding him at the end. Bell
Rock—an improving three-year-old gelding by
Hua—was a handy third. Murray Stream
should be able to win something fairly good
before long. Ex-Melbourne galloper Geronimo
(by St. Magnus) made his best Sydney showing.
Another good horse beaten was Tahmoor,
getting long in the tooth, but still able to
gallop. The old fellow was a handy third to
consistent Star Vite (N. Sellwood) and Lacka-
boy in the six-furlongs Flying. Vermeil was
close to them, and didn’t have the clearest of
runs. Blanmar (W. Briscoe) downed Drummer
Boy and Lord Luck in the mile Welter.
The day’s other winner, Penmore (R. Kerri-
gan), could possibly be a cut above the general
run of winter two-year-old runners. _ A
Pentheus colt, from the one-time consistent
suburban performer Mortine, Penmore had
done some slick gallops on the tracks, and,
having his first race, improved on them to
down Sentiment by six lengths, with Royal Lad
three lengths further back. Penmore was
assisted by the early leader, Voler, running
very wide and letting him through at the turn,
but there’s no doubt about the Pentheus colt’s
galloping ability. Royal Lad is possibly better
than his remote third would suggest; he was
a long way back in the running. For Senti-
ment it should be noted that he was giving
away a lot of weight.
When A. Ward rode Haymarket back to
the winner’s pen, an enthusiast over the fence
bawled out “Good on y’, Grandpa!” If true.
Ward must be one of the most vigorous of
the species. He lodked as strong as a prize-
fighter, keeping Haymarket going to hold off
Murray Stream. Incidentally, one of the oldest
and best of them—E. Bartle—is reported to
have hung up the gear for good, but it’s been
so long since he rode in a race that most
thought he’d retired years ago.
An interesting runner was the English-bred
Cursory (by Precipitation). There’s good
breeding all over him, but he struck the eye
as a bit leggy and lacking body; of the sort
that get into trouble if they haven’t plenty
of galloping room. He was finishing on well
in fourth place in Sun King’s Mixed Stakes.
* * * *
Rough finishes marred both jumping events
at Moonee Valley on Saturday. In the A. V.
Hiskins Steeplechase, named after a former
secretary of the club. Salvo was first past the
post, only to lose on protest, Don Gypsy
(K. Wilson) being declared the winner. Salvo,
left in front with about a mile to go when
Illumination and Kindervale turned it in, was
beginning to tire and not running true, and
when Don Gypsy tried to get through on the
rails Salvo swerved and cut him off. Coming
again on the outside, Don Gypsy was beaten
only a neck, with Ration third. Parentena’s
fourth suggested that he will appreciate the
extra distance of the Australian Steeple, in
which he has 9.9.
It was about Salvo’s turn to get the worst
of a protest. In June he won twice on the
same course, once on a protest and the second
time after connections of runner-up Biblical
had protested in vain,
Tcnte was favorite for the Steeple, punters
remaining faithful to that honest old jumper,
but nowadays he has too mudh weight. In the
Hurdle also the favorite went west, being
First Aid, who seemed to stand out in the poor
field. The handicapper’s opinion was First
Aid 11.4, the rest under lOst. In view of the
weights, First Aid’s rider seemed a little hasty
in going to the front nearly seven from home.
Nevertheless First Aid hung on well, and,
despite being hampered by tbe fast-finishing
Winpar (B. Smith), was beaten only three-
parts of a length, with Nicety next.
The Cooee Handicap, a mile tester for two-
year-olds, went to Fiddle, who defeated Leros
and Vantage well enough to suggest that she’ll
have a show in The Oaks. Certainly Fiddle
should have stamina, being by the Windbag
horse Pageant, winner of the Australian Cup
and a half-brother to Lawrence.
St. Buzz, after his deadheat with Thor the
previous week, was favorite at fours in the
Welter, but backers again had to halve their
“ Cripes , what do they think I am —a toreador?"
tickets, St. Buzz deadheating with outsider
Warra Nymph. In such cases, the betting law
covering deadbeats seems decidedly to favor
the books. Bets on the favorite would be
paid at 6 to 4, while the few supporters of
the 25 to 1 shot would receive only 12 to 1.
The Emborough horse Greensborough won
the first division of the Derrimut Handicap
from Pimpernel and Tamerlane. Purtell rode
Greensborough, leaving Badger the pretty hope-
less task of needing the remaining four flat
races for the premiership. He didn’t make it.
In the second division Wonder Bird (R.
Hutchinson) tossed Kind Link and Felstar.
The Hoysted stable came a cropper over
Ellipsis, favorite and utter failure in the Glen
Orla Handicap, in which Bannerette (E. Pres-
ton) downed Real Guy and Glenriven.
Hoysted was by a long chalk the leading
Melbourne trainer of the season, with 25 win-
ners and more than twice that many minor
placegetters. Leading owner was “Lucky”
Porter, with 161 winners and £9595 in stakes.
The joint owners of Russia, a partnership which
has since split up, were next on the list with
one winner and £7750 stakes, and there’s no
need to say what race that was.
* * * *
By how much would R. Maddock have won
the Brisbane jockeys’ premiership if he hadn’t
broken his leg last December! Though he
didn’t ride for the remaining half of the season
Maddock was still five winners to the good
after last Saturday’s Doomben meeting, Con-
quest being runner-up. Oddly, ex-Queenslander
G. Moore was well in front in Sydney when
he broke a leg, while in Melbourne Badger
was leading jockey when a spill put him out
of the saddle long enough to enable Purtell
to take the lead.
* * ♦ *
Air travel for racehorses is sure to become
more popular, particularly where the alterna-
tive transport is by sea, where even the calmest
of trips can knock them about. But three
New Zealanders, Scotch Tweed, Battle Acre
and Destiny, were killed last week en route
to Melbourne in the Waitaki. The freighter
struck foul weather with a 60 m.p.h. gale
blasting it for six out of the seven days of
the voyage; the horses, unable to keep their
feet, were literally battered to death.
* * * *
An oddity in “ring-ins” was an animal named
Charley’s Mistake, tracked down in America
last year. The owner was one Charley Micchell,
who was outed for life.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—
Three-year-old; Imperium, 1; Penmore, 2;
Outbreak, 3. Mixed Stakes (seven furlongs);
Neinby, 1; Killiecrankie, 2; Karachi, 3. Mixed
Stakes (12 furlongs): Binnia Lassie, 1; Lucky
Robin, 2; Devilment, 3. Flying: Lackaboy,
1; Tahmoor, 2; Vermeil, 3. Rosehill Handi-
cap: Murray Stream, 1; Silver Link, 2;
Geronimo, 3. Welter: Decorate, 1; Drummer
Boy, 2; Parfait, 3.
* * * *
With about a month to go to the
V.F.C. semi-finals, it’s a question of who
can down Carlton, now certain to be
minor premiers and playing very fine
football. The Blues got their biggest
scare on Saturday from the erratic Foot-
scray side, which led to half-time and lost
in a stirring finish when Hickey missed
the goal; Carlton, 14.9, Footscray, 13.1 L
At M.C.G. Richmond and Melbourne,
both seeking a last-minute entry into the
“four,” looked a one-sided affair till the
Tigers scored 7.2 to 3.2 in the final
burst and won 11.15-10.12. The quarter-
time scores explain why everybody who
watched the Collingwood-South Mel-
bourne match had to have throat gargles
that night; “Sowth”-’Wood, 2.5-2.4;
5.11-4.6; 7.12-7.12; 9.15-9.15. In the
other games Hawthorn, 16.18-10.9, belted
St. Kilda; Fitzroy, 16,7-7.14, swamped
North Melbourne ; and Essendon, 16.21-
12.5 stooped Geelong’s upward climb.
’** * *
University raised itself three points from
the bottom of the Sydney Rugby Union
ladder by beating Drummoyne convlnc-
ingly, 29-14. University backs functioned
perfectly, and Jack Blomley, sometime of
Tumbarumba, was better on the day than
Des Bannom Peter Carter was
outstanding in the ’Varsity forwards,
scoring 14 points. Manly beat Randwick
21-9 veteran Bill Simpson giving a
polished exhibition of cover defence. Cox,
the 18-year-old Manly half, gave good
service from the scrum, was enterprising
in attack and scored a try. East beat
Eastwood 56-13, East’s fullback Noel
Heywood breaking a goal-kicking record
with 10 goals. Gordon beat Parramatta
14-13 • North narrowly beat West
21-16,’being 16 all with half a minute
,
to go. St. George played a R.N. team
at University Oval, the Navy winning
10-3.
* * * ♦
By taking the North British purse at
Harrowgate—he had three 68’s and a 67
for his 271—Norman von Nida set a
new record for a year’s pro. golf earnings
in Britain. The £5OO first prize took his
winnings to £2575. His round was equal
to one put up by Abe Mitchell in 1932
at Bristol for the lowest 72 holes total.
Still on the lookout for new bowlers,
England has two 34-year-olds in the
fourth Test against S’Africa, H. J. Butler
(Notts fast right-hand) and J. A. Young
(Middlesex slow left-hand) replacing
Gladwin and Hollies. This makes 18
players on trial for the present series;
still, however, a long way behind the
record call-up of 29 players in 1921 v.
Australia.
* * ♦ ♦
A hearty biff of 267 not-out against
Northampton lifted the aggregate of Bill
Edrich to 2288, averaging 114.4, and he
is now within hitting distance of the 14
players who have topped 3000 runs in a
season in first-class cricket. Tom Hay-
ward’s 3518, av. 66.37, in 1906 is the
highest figure. Hammond, Sutcliffe and
Hendren each topped the 3000 three
times; Hayward, Mead and Ranjitsinhji
twice each. Edrich’s clubmate Denis
Compton could also make it, he, too,
having topped the 2000 for the season.
* * * *
“Mathe”; Warwick Armstrong en-
joyed cricket best when things were
against the side. Then he was always
hard to shift as a batsman or could peg
the opposition down with wonderful
length deliveries. His greatest Test bowl-
ing effort was against England at Lord’s in
1909: 24.5 overs 10 maidens, 35 runs for
six wickets; Australia by nine wickets.
Armstrong was in Test-century partner-
ships with Kelleway (194 and 187) and
Reg Duff (120), and in each case brought
victory to Australia.
* * * *
Landing far the greater number of
clean punches, Melbourne featherweight
Bernie Grant (9.0) outpointed Sydney-
sider Ray Coleman (8.13) at Leichhardt,
but that isn’t what the official record
shows. It was a good fight, speedy
in every round, Grant always aggres-
sive, sending over a barrage of
solid lefts to Coleman’s head, Cole-
man’s desperate fighting would have
won round seven, but instead the whole
round went against him through three
cautions for rabbitkillers. Coleman often
forced the fight from then on, but Grant
kept connecting with his lusty lefts.
Inviting the hoots he got, ref. Maw-
son called it a draw.
* * * *
In a tough battle at Melbourne
Stadium, Queensland featherweight
champ. Dave Landers (9.11) failed to see
out the distance against Frankie Flannery
(8.131). Landers gave his share, but had
taken a bit more, and was finally outed
irt the tenth round.


''vSHfe
m 133
jcumicaia
at on i(u ia]
DIRECTORS;
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C. ;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
PITFALLS await
the inexperienced
EXECUTOR.
The choice of your Executor is almost as
important as your Will itself. The duties of
Executorship are highly technical and pitfalls
abound for the inexperienced.
You will do well to consider the advantages
that you will give your beneficiaries by the
appointment of Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) as your Executor and Trustee.
The Company has specialized in this work for
over 60 years. Although it handles a great
volume of business there is nothing impersonal
or mechanical in its service.
The instructions of the Testator are faithfully
and efficiently carried out while the Company’s
service to beneficiaries is personal, friendly
and courteous.
You might call and discuss the matter with a senior officeri
If you prefer, send for a copy of the Company s booklet,
**Your Executor and Trustee M which explains the service the
Company renders and the cost of it»
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY'
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord's Place, Orange.
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood Street, Wagqa Wagga
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance Building,
Fitiroy Street, Tamworth.
f
✓
/
m
MW
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Men and Output
One of the greatest dangers to economic
stability is excess jflant capacity. Realis-
ing this, and the fact that the sunset of
Mr. Chifley’s “golden age” is approaching,
R. A. Archinal, president of the Ex-
porters’ Federation, has appealed for a
general get-together of Government,
manufacturers, workers and the public in
an effort to foster our external trade by
boosting production, cutting costs, and
maintaining a high quality of products
and efficient packing. He enumerated a
five-point programme in which the- Gov-
ernment could assist, namely, (1) educa-
tion of all sections for the need of an
expanded export trade, (2) more reliance
on the advice of private enterprise—those
who know at first hand—in solving trade
problems, (3) expansion of production
before seeking overseas markets for goods
not in sufficient supply, (4) removal of
hampering controls and (5) hastening sup-
plies of tinplate and carton and container
boards, which are essential to a high
standard of packing.
The key to the whole position is more
coal, power and essential materials, and
a labor force that will keep the wheels
of trade and industry moving without
serious interruption. The trouble is that,
while management has planned to over-
come the problems of the day, an un-
co-operative labor force has stood in the
way of results. Some key unions appear
to be wedded to a policy of behavior
which aims at perpetuating a shortage
of manpower, and so maintaining a
sellers’ market for labor. While such a
position persists, it will be difficult either
to cut costs or speed production and
delivery. Yet by these means we could
substantially reduce, or even entirely
eliminate, the yawning gap between the
supply of goods and the supply of money,
and so lay the inflation bogey by the
heels, and everybody would be better off.
The rank and file of organised labor
are not yet awake to the fact that failure
to produce valuable goods and services
represents a loss of wealth, which a
socialist Government has redistributed
largely into the “workers’ ” hands by way
of the incidence of taxation, wage in-
creases and widening social and other
benefits. Nor are they yet alive to a
realisation that good and efficient service
ministers not only to profits and wages,
but also to the benefit of society as a
whole. Nor is it yet adequately realised
that profit is both a test of efficiency and
a condition of survival, and that respon-
sible leaders of trade and industry today
are intent on serving the public to the
best of their power by high and efficient
production, while at the same time main-
taining good conditions in their estab-
lishments, and dealing fairly with all on
the payroll. While the State prescribes and
polices minimum rates of pay and maxi-
mum hours of work, private enterprise
has shown a readiness to reward efficiency
with more than minimum wage rates.
In these days of specialisation production
is a community effort from which all
benefit, and to which all must make an
appropriate contribution if maximum
benefits are to be obtained.
The problem is how to put co-opera-
tion into exhortation. If this is not done
voluntarily now, force of economic cir-
cumstances will be the compelling factor
later on. The danger lies not in lack of
demand —there is still an enormous build-
ing and re-equipment programme ahead
of us at home and a strong demand for
our exports—but in shortage of supplies
and the possibility of .rising costs retard-
ing demand, and therefore production.
In many cases production has not yet
advanced to the 1938-39 level again,
whereas demand is far ahead of the pre-
war levels in practically every direction.
From an examination of available statis-
tics, the industrial committee of the In-
stitute of Public Affairs estimates that
productive efficiency today is about 10 p.c.
below what it was pre-war. The com-
mittee adds that “the public must realise
“Your change won't be long coming. Madam—this is my lunch.”
that there cad be a depression under full
employment—a self-inflicted one caused
by sheer failure to produce on an effi-
cient basis.”
Forestry cos. in Maoriland were pro-
voked by criticism levelled at them in a
paper presented to the fifth Empire
Forestry conference in London by F. W.
Foster, inspector in charge of the manage-
ment division of M.L.’s State Forestry
Service. Foster declared many of the
cos. were hard pressed for finance to meet
annual costs, local rates and forest main-
tenance, and that they couldn’t go to the
market for more funds while their shares
were at a discount. The great bulk of
their forests were planted between 1923
and 1930, and, said Foster, were the
direct result of “get rich quick” co. pro-
motion, with investors promised £5OO re-
turns at the end of 20 years for every
£25 they put in. Tree growth was the
yardstick. Later some leading cos.
entered forest utilisation by manufactur-
ing wallboard, wrapping and other paper,
plywood, sawn timber and minor pro-
ducts. In many forests, said Foster, fire
protection was “woefully inadequate.”
David Henry, chairman of N.Z. Forest
Products, Ltd., took up the cudgels to
Foster. If the cos. were poor the Govern-
ment was to blame for not allowing main-
tenance work as annual expenditure, but
treating it as capital. They were mulcted
of most of their capital by taxation.
“Older trees are only now coming on the
market,” said Henry. “Most of the trees
are not grown enough, so we are steadily
building up our markets. I have little
doubt that markets can be found steadily
and progressively.” He scouted a sug-
gestion by Foster that the Government
should step in. Over £8,000,000 is in-
vested in M.L.’s two main forestry cos.,
Forest Products, Ltd., and Whakatane
Paper Mills, Ltd., much of it by overseas
shareholders.
Sellers want 60s. each for A.C.I. ords.
since the official news that a glass factory
is to be opened in Singapore; but buyers
still halt at 58s. 9d., which was their limit
over a month ago. The price already in-
corporated a generous allowance for
future benefits: at 58 s. 9d. the effective
annual yield from last year’s div. and the
four preceding years’ is only 2.4 p.c.
Co.’s directors have so far said nothing
about capital expansion. Amount and
terms of any issue must, of course, be
acceptable to Canberra, and Mr. Chifley’s
latest warning of a more rigid insistence
upon premiums in future issues isn’t
encouraging. Consolidated accounts in
March, 1946, showed the A.C.I. group’s
cash balances as £446,162, apart from
£763,358 in shares and debentures. Acti-
vities in Singapore won’t at first be on a
grandiose scale: staff will number 250,
including key workers from Australia.
Construction of the factory is now well
advanced, according to managing-direc-
tor W. J. Smith, but no date has been
fixed for starting production. A.C.I. will
act through a new subsidiary called
Singapore Glass Manufacturers. Direc-
tors expect a good Asiatic market for
glass products, and plan to set up engin-
eering and plastics works later in Singa-
pore. From more points of view than
the investor’s, this direct Australian par-
ticipation in the industrial growth of
Asia has important implications. The
steep rise in cost of British manufactures
and high freight rates, etc., have provided
the opportunity.
* * * , *
Woollen upholstery cover-cloth will be
mades in Australia for the first time by
the newly-formed Woolcord Fabrics, Ltd.,
of Seymour (Vic.). Possessing special
wearing qualities, the fabric may be
particularly suitable for hotel and vehicle
upholstery. Co.’s prospectus for a first
issue of £60,000 in £1 ords. has just
appeared, and states that directors also
intend to raise a loan of £20,000 from
the Victorian Government, secured on
the factory and buildings and site of their
rSS° Se T° mbined cost is estimated at
£64,000). Limited production should
begin in March, 1948—rather later than
the estimate given in a preliminary an-
nouncement four months ago. A com-
plete set of weaving plant is coming from
U.K., and English technicians will Be
brought out to train local staff. Present
issue is being underwritten by Messrs.
Miller and McFadyen (Sydney) and S. R.
Johnson (Sydney). Applications, which
close on August 8, should be accompanied
by first payment of ss. per share. Balance
is payable in calls of ss. and will prob-
ably be required within 18 months. Man-
aging-director is C. J. R. Ansett, who
plays the same part for Ansett Knitting
Mills, also of Seymour. By special agree-
ment, he has the option to buy 10,000
shares in a subsequent issue by Woolcord
Fabrics. Other directors are R. Moore
and J. N. Lloyd, of Sydney; R. M. Ansett
(managing-director of Ansett Transport
Industries), Melbourne ; and H. E. White-
man, of Seymour.
* * * *
Australian ideas, enterprise and
materials and British machinery are be-
hind the effort Korma Textiles (N.Z.),
Ltd., is making to launch textile manu-
facturing in a big way at Auckland, which
is Maoriland’s leading and rapidly-
developing industrial centre. * The outer-
wear knitting section of the subsidiary,
Korma Mills, Ltd,, was shifted to the
first completed building on the 20-acre
site at Royal Oak (Auckland) within six
months of the issue of capital—the
125,000 5 p.c. pref. shares had to be
rationed, one for every 10 sought. Sec-
tions of the main factory building will be
finished in the order most urgently re
quired, so that machinery can be installed
and operated as the scheme progresses.
The worsted spinning plant is of latest
type, and the only one built in Britain
this year. A modern laboratory and a
qualified industrial chemist and research
staff will ensure that the co. keeps abreast
of the'Test of the world in scouring,
dyeing, finishing and other problems that
spell first-class goods. Sales in overseas
markets helped to swell last year’s
turnover to a record £460,839, and further
overseas inquiries are in hand. Addi-
tional plant should lift output to higher
levels this year. More finance will be the
next need, and the directors are now con-
sidering plans for raising it.
♦ * * «
Ruthless and uneconomic competition
by State railways has hit coastal shipping
cos. heavily in Maoriland. This year
net earnings of the Northern Steamship
Co., which trades mainly round the
Auckland coast, have dwindled almost
to vanishing point! This 67-year-old
concern, which was the largest transporter
of freight and passengers to many coastal
areas earlier in the century, has a 1947
profit of only £69, against £5633 a year
ago and over £13,000 annually in the late
’twenties. For the second time in 10
years—l 939 was the first —there’s no div.
Over the balance of the decade divs.
varied from 3 p.c. to 5 p.c. The lean
time for shareholders began back in the
depression days, when the transport war,
with the State dipping deeply into tax-
payers’ pockets to meet losses, first be-
came intense. Private enterprise has been
hard pressed ever since. Now share-
holders are being asked to approve
amendments to the co.’s articles to
broaden its objects. Like Australian ship-
ping concerns. Northern Steam is up
against many problems,
* * * »
Brigadier Derek Schreiber, well remem-
bered in Australia as the Duke of Glou-
cester’s chief of staff, has managed
to splash some color into his present role
of stockbroker —by placing a parcel of
200,000 Is. shares in London at a premium
of four-thousand-and-one-hundred per
cent (415.). They represent one-third of
the capital in Bertram Mills Circus,
which has hitherto belonged entirely to
the two Mills brothers. Last year
£200,000 profit was earned on capital of
£30,000.


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump ouf
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn 1
digest. Yousuffer from wind. You get con*
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working ana
make you feel “up and up. _ Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you it.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3,
Beginners in business
-m
A
/
1
F%
W!
At the outset of your business career
when you are earning your first regular
income you can have the safety and
convenience of a cheque account.
It is not necessary to wait until you are
twenty-one.
A cheque account with the "Wales’*
carries business prestige and provides an
orderly method of handling private
business.
Consult the manager . . .
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability)
fds
sSkVsos mm™/
HOW OFTEN HAVE YOU FOUND YOURSELF LOST FOR WORDS
to describe your thoughts and feelings, the people you’ve met, the places
you’ve seen and the things you’ve done? How often have you realised that
a better command of words would build your self-confidence, lend colour to
your personality and give you those qualities which would help you m your
business and social life?
Here—between the covers of this provocative, entertaimng and educational
book is your opportunity to acquire that LARGER VOCABULARY m a
NEW and INTERESTING way, and in only fifteen minutes daily. Ihe
measure of a man is very largely the extent to which he can speak and write
clearly, intelligently and interestingly, and many leading psychologists use
vocabulary tests to determine a person’s intelligence. In fact, it has been
demonstrated that such tests are 90% as accurae as the famous but more
complicated “Stanford-Binet I.Q. Tests”.
Edited by
Dr. Wilfred Funk
and Norman Lewis
I
I
a
30 Things This Book Will Do For You in 30 Days
16
Explain how you can help fa
create the-English language;
and the way in which slang
attains respectability.
17
Give you a surprise test that
shows the;' astonishing pro- £
gress you have already made
In increasing your vocabulary.
Explain how to, capture per-
sonalities in words, making
them and yourself more in*
tcresiing to others.
19
Demonstrate why adjectives
add flavour to your language,
and how to use' them more
effectively.
15
Show you seventeen ways to
define the faults of human
beings; and to avoid 'the
commonplace in your con-
versation.
20
Describe on easy way to re-
member the words you learn,
so that the progress you make
through this book will never
be lost
21
Describe how totin word- ;
roots multiply your vocabu-,|
lory so amazingly. '
22
Give you ten fascinating
quizzes which “nail down"
your three weeks' progress.
23
Give you'o quiz challenge that
will test your wit In guessing
at word meanings. “
24
Teach' you a group of vital
words that describe you and
your personality. i
25
Give you simple exercises on
French phrases .which will
make your speaking or writing
more engaging.
26
Give you ten keys words that
describe the kind of words we
use. and how to know into
which classification ■words
fall.
27
Illustrate some interesting ex-
amples of how words are
built and how to use them to
impress others.
28
Teach you some simple classic
"roots" which will quickly and
automatically increase your
language power.
29
Entertain you with a fascina-
ting sketch showing how
words change their meanings,
how our language shifts,
changes, and grows.
30
Give you thirty scientific tests
to prove bow far you have
come and show yoa how to
make vocabulary building a*
lifetime habit.
YOU'LL REALLY ENJOY YOURSELF
THIS IS WHAT PLEASED READERS SAY ABOUT '’THIS BOOK.
«r Um* the hook very satisfactory and it is helping
SEND NO MONEY/
Just post the coupon NOW to
find out all you want to know
about this wonderful book. It is
a book of incalculable* value to
all who desire self-improvement—
a book that will give you the
kind of mastery of words that
will transform your whole life.
TO EDUCATION PTY. LIMITED, BOX 4444, G.P.0., SYDNEY
(Douglas Davies, Director)
Box 4444, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me all details, price, etc., about "30 Days to a
More Powerful Vocabulary ". This request places me under
no obligation and I enclose two 2id. stamps to cover postage.
possession. ■"
“I am finding your book exceedingly entertaining and educa-
£ am juiums ■
tional and a great did
ivir. J., cant, Sth.
Don’t delayl
CAS. H 8
NOW'
SEND THIS COUPON
I" EDUCATION PTY. LIMITED
NAME.
(Please print)
ADDRESS
470708 PV.
I
Conversion Problems
The*Federal Government will be faced
with some big conversion problems oyer
the next three or four years. Since the
outbreak of war the amount of Federat
loans listed on the principal Stock ex-
changes throughout the Commonwealth
has advanced from over £544 millions to
more than £1722 millions. The increase
was taken largely by institutional in-
vestors, including savings banks, the Com-
monwealth Bank, life and other insurance
offices, the trading banks and commer-
cial houses.
Amounts falling due for conversion
over the next three years total £2BO mil-
lions—l94B, £B5 millions, carrying from
2\ p.c. to 3i p.c.; 1949 £ll5 millions,
2 p.c. to 3| p.c.; 1950 £BO millions, 2 p.c.
to 4 p.c. Also, in 1950 over £964 millions
of Government paper reaches its earliest
maturity date, and all but £9 millions
of it is in the 3? p.c. group. And in the
following year the Government will have
the opportunity of early reconversion of
over £l2B millions of old 4 per cents. (1931
conversions). The perplexing years for
the Treasury will be 1950-51, when it
will have to decide whether to exercise
its option of early conversion, in whole
or in part, or let the issues (a dozen in
all), which fall due in increasing amounts
over the 11 years to 1961, run to their
longer-maturity dates.
From the Treasury point of view, cost
of servicing the public debt will be one
of the important factors involved, an-
other will be keeping savings in balance
with the demand for them, and both are
wrapped up with the Government’s long-
term cheap-money policy, “full” employ-
ment and the method of financing public
works. It remains to be seen, therefore,
whether circumstances will ultimately
permit the Government, which aims at
giving the cheap-money screw yet an-
other turn, to hold the interest rate on
its bonds at the 3 p.c. level. A combina-
tion of rising prices and a low rate of
interest imposes a double penalty on the
reward for saving. And, as the gap be-
tween the volume of goods and the
volume of money narrows and is stabil-
ised, any attempt to hold the official rate
of interest at a lower level than the
natural rate (the one that keeps the supply
of savings in balance with demand) will
discourage savings, encourage wasteful
expenditure, and cause the interest burden
to lose its force as a factor in debt re-
duction.
“Graz”: Uncle Sam was by far the
largest of our 36 overseas wool buyers
last season, spending £34,850,000 on
1.117.000 bales for the 11 months ending
May 31. In the same period U.K. took
789,555 bales for £22,756,000; France
598,488 bales for £15,195,000; Belgium
572,595 bales for £14,786,000, and Italy
389,649 bales for £11,161,000. The figures
include substantial quantities of J.O. wools
as well as the 1946-47 clip. The Chifley
Government has agreed to sell Japan
150.000 bales of reasonable-quality wool.
Previously the Government authorised
the shipment of 33,000 bales, but the
quality was unsuitable for re-exporting
purposes, and only 7481 bales were taken.
Many Japanese mills are war-damaged
and others obsolete, reducing estimated
milling capacity to about one-third pre-
war level. For the nine months to end
March Australia exported 583,600 bales
of tops, noils, scoured wool and waste
valued at £20,697,000. The stockpile
contains a large quantity of carbonising
sorts. Shortages of labor, carbonising
machinery and Essential scouring soaps
and chemicals overseas curb the demand
for such wools in their greasy state.
World demand for good, free Merino is
far from being satisfied, which augurs
well for prices. The cheque for last
season’s sales was £92.3 millions, or £34.2
millions more than for the previous
season. The average price per pound
(greasy and scoured combined) was 56.3
p.c. stronger at 25.15 d. The new season’s
sales begin in Sydney on September 1.
* * * *
“C.S.”: An account of the agar in-
dustry in Australia during the war, and
the research that led up to it, is given in
C.S.I.R. Bulletin 203. Agar is obtained
from seaweed and produces jellies used
for meat canning, bacteriology, tooth-
pastes, dental impression materials and
other purposes. Japan used to produce
about 95 p.c. of the world’s output, and
the gtuff was in very short supp i y during
the war; when the struggle ended Aus-
tralian production was greater than that
of any other coun try. The work done
by C.S.I.R. covered the occurrence, har-
vesting and preparation of the seaweed,
an d the chemistry and technology of agar
pro< d uct i ori . As new information came
tQ light it was passe d on to the manu-
facturers At present the industry pro-
duces some 160> oO01b. of agar a year,
wort k adout £150,000. Production is
expanding to t he limits of the known
beds of the particular seaweed required,
SQme of the output goes t 0 Britain,
Argentina and Uruguay #
e of the lustiest of Maoriland’s
young cos. Dominion Breweries Ltd ,
has again eclipsed past profit-making per-
formanc.es and attained a new div. record,
With net earnings of £66,574 for the year
ended March last, it. Beat _its previous
best, in 1939, Jjy £1097, and the 13 p.c.
dtv. is 1 p.c. higher than then pa d.
There s a surplus of £21,074 above cur-
rent div. needs of £45,500; this after
adding £30,000 to general reserve now
£150,000 Last .yews tax reductions
gave a fillip to D B but its strength is in
its directorate, which by youthful energy
and drive is vigorously challenging its
Sreater rival, N.Z. Breweries, Ltd A
slight fall m gross profit is a hint that war
and post-war buoyancy m sales may have
reached a peak, but the effort the corn-
pany put into surmounting early pro
l g ms hasn t spent itself yet.
*** . .
Signs that young manufacturing con-
cerns established in Maonland under the
shelter of war-time conditions and im-
P°rt controls might have to face rising
competition are beginning to show up
on the horizon. One young enterprise,
Aluminium Utensils, Ltd. (Auckland), has
seen the Government handing out licences
more freely for imported hollow-ware,
Chairman L. N. Ross has come forward
with a declaration that the cq. can com-
pete with supplies from outside, both in
quality and price, and has planned a
wider range of products. He defends the
co.’s 10 p.c. div. against critics who de-
clare that no concern should earn more
than 6 p.c. by pointing to the risk
shouldered by those who place funds in
a new industry. Ten per cent, is no more
than a fair reward for the risk is his
flat retort.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Chuck”: When Ted and Alec took up
adjoining selections they decided to halve
costs by working on a community system.
The bark humpy they shared was erected
square on the boundary line between
the blocks. While Ted used the horse
and chains, Alec got busy on his side
with the axe and crosscut. The day the
inspector dropped in with a message he
found Ted huddled over the fire, alone.
“An important package for you at the
post office,” the inspector informed him.
“They want you to call there, soon as
you can.” “Righto,” Ted drawled; “I’ll
slip down tonight.” “Cripfes, you don’t
want to leave the trip over those rough
ledges any later than you can help,” the
inspector advised. “Especially a night
like this. They’ll be slippery. Get off
now, and you’ll be back by dark.” Ted
glanced out at the steady drizzle and
shook his head. “Can’t,” he explained
slowly. “Alec’s got the coat.”
* » » »
“Bufo”: Despite ex-Senior Medical
Assistant “Frank Mauri’s” experience (B.
9/7/’47), I venture to point out that in
his vehement denial of the possibility of
withdrawing more than a “tiny drop” of
blood from “human tissue” with a hypo-
dermic syringe, he has overlooked the
vital fact that ligatures had been applied
before the A.M.C. corporal used the in-
strument on “Spinifex’s” snakebite. The
static congestion resulting from a pro-
perly-applied ligation increases the yield
by dilating the capillaries. Even without
it, when the needle is inserted along the
track of the fangs in the bite site, a
single drop of withdrawn blood or serum
may bring with it sufficient of the injected
poison to mitigate later effects and per-
haps to save the patient’s life.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Near Whitland (Vic.) we
stopped a cove to ask the way to Power’s
Lookout, that sheer outcrop commanding
the King Valley. In the course of a yarn
we commented on the wetness of the fall-
ing mist, to which our informant replied
that there’d been two inches of it on
Tuesday and three on Wednesday. “And
what about yesterday?” Sam inquired.
“Aw, it rained yestiddy,” was the reply.
* * * *
“Wippegong”; The dogs attached to
our chaff-cutting plant led a gay and
varied existence. On the generous farms
they shared milk, meat and privileges with
the home tykes, but where the butter was
thin on the brownie the owners of the
dogs had to scrounge. Charlie always
located the fowl-feed and filled his grey-
hound with pollard mash ; young Joe and
his foxie were usually somewhere handy
when the poddies were fed ; and Dan’s
big brindled fox dog just helped himself
to anything he saw. When the stacks
were cut out all the mongs gathered for
a hectic half-hour when water was poured
down the mouse- and rat-holes to clear
out the vermin. All were expert at
snapping up the rodents as they scam-
pered out, tossing them smartly into the
air to avoid a nip, and clicking the teeth
on them as they came down. But it
was Bill’s old Toby who was the price-
less ally of the ’cutter men. As they
filed in to meals Toby would be among
the legs and, unseen, would take up his
position under the table. On “good”
places titbits would be passed down to
him as his share of the luck ; but it was
on the bad ones he really earned his
reputation. If the steak was buckling the
knives you had only to wait till the missus
wasn’t looking and slip the offending
substance, under the table —Toby was
there, and did the rest. The most dreaded
place was where they kept goats. The
blokes would stoke up on vegetables,
while under cover of this activity Toby
would be doing rapid circuits below dis-
posing of the rank, stringy “mutton” ;
and when the team settled down to work
afterwards their tempers were hardly im-
proved by' the sight of the old hero
sleeping it off. Bill reckoned that, stroll-
ing down the main street on Saturdays,
Toby could recognise the bad cooks of
the district and snarl at them.
* * * ♦
“E. 2”: Fred and Alec were grubbing
stumps to leeward of the house on a
bleak, misty July afternoon, and the
misery of their occupation was not
lightened by the fragrant odor of freshly-
baked bread wafted from the kitchen.
Alec could stand it no longer when he
saw Mrs. Dan go out to feed the fowls.
He worked stealthily round to keep the
house in line of vision and made a dash
for the kitchen. Leaning well in through
the window, he made several passes under
his coat and hurried back to his toil.
That night Mrs. Dan put on a large
spread for tea, winding up with huge
helpings of jam rolypoly. Fred and
Alec wired in doggedly till the last scrap
was finished and sat back stonkered.
Only then did Mrs. Dan speak. “You
boys must have been famished,” she
said. “I’m satisfied now it was the dogs
that stole two loaves of bread and a
pound of butter from the kitchen a
couple of hours ago. But I still don’t
“The big ’uns take too much pullin' up!"
see what they’d be doin’ with one of my
tableknives! ”
* * * *
“Betcha”; Just been round the lambing
ewes, encountering the usual strife with
the mother-instinct, a superabundance
of which can be as troublesome as a de-
ficiency. If only expectant mothers would
wait for the event, instead of pinching a
lamb from some other ewe and leading it
away! Quite often, the youngster is one
of twins, and the abduction is not spotted
until a day or two later, when her legiti-
mate family arrives and she discards the
adopted one. Two or three days off
lambing is the usual time for these
nuisances to start their blackmarket
tactics, though occasionally a ewe many
weeks off will persistently claim a lamb,
and inveigle it away to die of starvation.
Today’s argument concerned thrfee ewes
and-two lambs. The first ewe, with lamb
at foot, wandered slowly northward ; the
second, with the other lamb, fed con-
tentedly to the south; the third,
bleating persistently, divided her time
worriedly between them. Scowling
at the antics of the middle ewe, I was
instructing the mong to drive her off,
when I discovered the twins were hers.
Neither of the kidnappers had lambed.
* * * *
“C.E.”: That kid who objected to
being classed as such (B. 9/7/’47) qualifies
as an amateur by his dispatching a rabbit
with a blow behind the ears. The
modern method, adopted by young and
old alike in bunny country, is a quick
jerk of the head that dislocates the neck.
The rabbit is held in the left hand, right
hand placed firmly over the back of the
head, with fingers gripping. Head is then
bent slightly backward, and in that posi-
tion given a forward push. Besides being
more humane, the method is quick, sure,
and convenient, for the bunnies can be
dra pored from the burrows, and one after
another quickly dispatched and thrown
clear, witnout the bother of having to
suspend them for a blow. And why that
kid camped all day on the logged rabbit’s
tail is a puzzle, for if a match to smoke
it out was not available a piece of fenc-
ing-wire would do the trick in a few
minutes. The nearest fence provides the
implement, and a couple of twists in the
quarry’s pelt gives enough grip to pull
him out.
# * * *
“Goldie”: Farley, George Priddle and
Cranky Willie were working a small
patch of good stone that had been missed
in the slopes of an old mine. It was
along a drive about 30 feet down, and
they had a windlass rigged for hauling ;
Farley and Willie worked below while
George turned the brace. The ground
was flawed and broken, with soapy heads
from which it was apt to slip away with-
out warning. One morning George heard
the ominous rumble of a fall and Willie s
yell, so he hurried down the ladderway.
Willie’s candle shed uncertain light along
the driveway ; he was examining a piece
of stone near by Farley’s recumbent
form. “Is he hurt bad?” George asked.
“Well, he went out like a light and hasn’t
complained since,” said Willie. “But
just take a gander at this stone that
donged him —it’s studded with gold!”
* * * *
“Naturala”: “Ex-Mister” (B. 2/ 7 / ’47)
is correct in what he says about the giant
squid being the prey of the sperm whale,
but it is doubtful whether those scars
found on the hides of captured whales
were made by the suckers of the cuttle-
fish. That Prince Of Monaco whom he
quotes put forward the statement, since
confirmed by other observers, that many
of the giant squid were equipped
with an immense armament of claws, as
sharp and tierce as a tiger’s, and it was
these that scored the hide of the sperm
when battling for a meal. Also given a
smallish immature whale, it was possible
that at tirfies the would-be diner actually
became the main item on the cuttlefish
menu.
* * * *
“Emjai”: At a cod camp on the Ovens
(Vic.), in other and worse days for the big
fish, it was dark when we had finished
baiting, and Jimmy risked the snags to
swim the big hole with the long end of a
crossline. A cowbell on a springer contact-
ing the line was set to give warning of big
business. The first shift for doing the
rounds of the springers were yarning in
the smoke of the dung fire, and all else
was quiet but the soft gurgle of the
river, when Simmo stealthily crept to the
bell and trailed a light line from it back
to the tent. Soon a few tentative jiggles
were followed by a wild clangor of the
bell. Jimmy rushed from the tent yell-
ing, “I’ll get him,” and we heard his
splash. The joker unhitched his line from
the bell and called the swimmer back, but
Jimmy was out of sight, the bell ringing
more wildly than ever and soon there
were sounds of action in midstream.
No ; Jimmy didn’t lose that fish. He’d
pushed the big tucker box ahead of him,
cut loose the dropper with the fish, tied
it to the box and took a speed-boat ride
to Yarrawonga. .
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Reports from the
Kon-tiki Pacific expedition of six
Norwegian scientists drifting westward
on a balsa-wood raft from Peru in the
South Equatorial current indicate that
they will succeed in substantiating
the theory of pre-Incan population of
Polynesia from South America. With a
steady westward wind and current they
had covered the distance to the Mar-
quesas at an Average of 136 nautical
miles daily. The balsa-wood logs were
still buoyant, their water consumption
had not exceeded the amount which could
have been carried in bamboo containers
for a much longer voyage, sweet potatoes,
gourds and coconuts were in good order
and flying fish had landed on the raft
every night. Edible squids and crabs
were collected from the raft logs and
plenty of big fish had been caught when
attracted by the shade under the raft.
* * * *
“Nolly”: We were taking a mob of
cattle from Alpha, Western Queensland, to
Delta Station, Barcaldine, and on the
way regaled our newchum cook with
horrible stories of stampeding cattle and
cooks trampled to death. During the
early hours one morning the chap riding
boundary saw a white patch near a tree
some 50 yards from the sleeping herd
and, riding up, swung his whip and
chopped where the rump steak should
have been. There was a wild yelp and
the cook, impeded by the old calico tent
he’d wrapped himself in, blundered into
the herd. The cattle were some miles
from camp before we stopped the rush.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Except for her bright
personality and humorous eyes, my
hostess could have been one of Lawson’s
“haggard, women.” A tall, gaunt figure,
she had greying hair, strong, rough but
marvellously dexterous hands and
freckled muscular forearms. In the
middle of peeling spuds she broke off to
walk out on to the verandah; I heard a
swishing sound and a metallic noise
from a distance away ; then she returned
to her chores. A little later the same
sequence was repeated. The third time
I happened to be near the door as the
good lady came out. To my amazement
she took a catapult down from a nail
in the wall, fitted a gravel as big as a
“bottle-oh” marble to the leather and,
with a practised flicking motion, fired up
the paddock. The target proved to be a
kero.-tin that was suspended over a bed
of lettuce. ‘.‘Scaring the sparrows,” was
the reply to my mute question. Having
fancied myself with the weapon in my
disgraceful youth, I had a shot —and
blew out my chest at a direct hit near the
top of the tin. “You don’t quite under-
stand the idea,” the lady marksman said
gently. “I always hit the tin at the side,
near the bottom. The noise not only
frightens the birds, it starts the tin
spinning as well as swinging to and fro.
Those sticks tied across the top of the
tin go round, too, and the bunches of
feathers tied to them flutter about. For
a while the spags were properly
frightened' of the contraption, but now
I have to give ’em a scare every half-
hour or so.” Looking at the grouping
of the dents in the tin 1 found yet
another quality to add to my respect of
the bush woman.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Besides touching at
Rottnest and giving it a name (B.
2/7/’47) Willem de Vlaming made a
short mainland excursion, landing at the
present site of Cottesloe and marching
inland to what is now called Freshwater
Bay. This, the broad expanse of the
Swan River, surely one of the most
beautiful views in Australia, inspired
Vlaming only with disgust. Being full
of optimism about the finding of groves
of spices, or gold or diamonds strewn
over the landscape, he and his thirsty
followers found that even this “lake”
was as salt as the sea. But they did get
something—an outsize in bellyaches.
Weary of a ship diet of salt junk and
biscuit, several were tempted to eat of
an inviting-looking nut, obviously the
fruit of a low-growing palm. It was
the zamia. Vlaming’s remedy was crude
but effective—he ordered the sufferers to
tickle their throats with a finger; but
it was a week or more before they were
fit for duty again. Little wonder that
those early Dutch had a “deny” on New
Holland.
♦ * * *
“Mug”; When Dick bought himself a
partnership in the store, he started
in to show old George how a country
business should be run. Dick’s experi-
ence was meagre, his self-confidence
great, and George’s troubles multiplied
fast. “Cripes,” he scowled, as he came
on Dick ushering out a customer loaded
down with goods, “that was Bob Skinner,
an’ I told y’ I don’t let him have anything
now. He’s owed me money f’r years, an’
I can’t get a penny of it.” “Don’t worry,
I’ll handle him,” crowed Dick. “Skinner s
cutting chaff this week, and wanted to
know if we’d buy some off him. I’ve
agreed on three loads, at market rates,
supplying our own bags. Just sent ’em
up. The price of that chaff’ll pretty near
square his account. That’s brains for y’.”
Three weeks later Dick was still taking
orders for chaff. “Yair,” he nodded
cheerfully, “we’ve got some coming. Just
a minute. Hey, Charlie,” he called, as
another customer entered. “Do you
know if Bob Skinner’s cut his chaff yet?”
“Skinner?” came the puzzled answer.
“Cripes, he’s got no chaff left, Dick. He
only had three loads, an’ he sold that t’
me three weeks ago, soon’s he was able
t’ get hold o’ some bags t’ put it in.”
JUGIONG.
When I was a boy in Jugiong
And Miriam Kent was there.
With laughter in her wide brown eyes
And sunlight on her hair,
There were songs in the winds of Jugiong
And all the hills were green,
And the world was mine each morning
When I was seventeen.
Oh, years ago in Jugiong
I saw September come.
To meet the blossoms on the hills
And wake the wild bee’s drum.
And I fancied the stars of Jugiong
Came down to the river’s breast.
While the leader’s bugle signalled
The wild swans to the west.
From the Cow-wongs down to Jugiong,
And south to Gundagai,
The black-backed magpies wheel and call
And the timid plover cry.
There is charm in the years of Jugiong—
In its weathered walls of stone
And the tales the old men treasure
Of days that they have known.
Though I’ve been far from Jugiong,
Beyond the blue-wreathed range,
Far from the stars and bird-songs
In many a town and strange,
I am held in my dreams of Jugiong,
Of the precious years and rare,
When I was a boy in Jugiong
And Miriam Kent was there.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Bo”: Old Ben and Hairy Herb, who
shared the one-roomed shack along the
river, had argued for weeks on the noise
that woke them up at times during the
night. Ben insisted that it was mice.
Herb maintained it was a possum ratting
the tucker-box that was kept near Bert’s
bunk. Finally Ben decided to settle the
argument. “Give us a hand to sling this
stror mattress o’ mine out,” he said to
Herb, “then y’ll find it’s mice.” As they
made to shift it a black snake about four
feet long slithered on to the floor. Ben
calmly picked up a Jog from the fire-
place and dropped it fair on to the speed-
ing Joe’s back. “Well, neither of us was
right. Herb,” he said as he casually
flung the black-and-red fellow on to
the ant-heap outside the door. “And I’m
damn’ glad it wasn’t mice—they reckon
the fleas that live on ’em carry all sorts
o’ diseases!” /
* * * *
“Lub”: The bull had broken through
the rails of the cowyard fence and Alf
was making repairs. He was dressing a
green rail, with his foot holding it steady,
when the adze rode a chip, skidded and
dived on his gumboot. It went clean
through, shearing skin off two of
Alf’s toes. “Y’ was lucky that time,”
said Judd, who’d been watching the pro-
ceedings. “Y’ might’ve ’ad y’r foot cut
orf.” “I dunno what’s lucky about it,”
Alf moaned. “The other gummy was the
one that had the hole in it, so now they’ll
both leak.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: An outback N.S.W.
paper conceived the far-from-original
notion of digging up ancient inhabitants
of the district and getting from them
matter for articles on local history. The
vein had about petered out when the re-
porter heard of Gilgai George, reputed
to be 100-and-something and living in the
wild tobacco clumps behind Doganduck.
It took him two days to find the shack,
“ Remember , we're on piecework, Mick!"
which was empty and bore, painted in
tar on its nailed-up door, the legend:
“Gone to Narrandera. Back Sunday.”
On the following Sunday the reporter was
at the shack and waited in vain most
of the day. He wanted to turn it up
then, but his editor scented a mystery
and 5 insisted upon the shack being
watched. On the fourth Sunday the re-
porter encountered an ancient individual
camped close to the shack. “Are you the
chap who is known as Gilgai George?”
The hatter stood his rabbit stew aside
and peered suspiciously at his questioner.
“Gilgai owe y’ anythin’?” he asked. “No,
I just wanted to see him.” The hatter
pondered. “Well, he ain’t back yet,” he
said. “I’m lookin’ f’r him, too. Old
basket owes me two bob, half a plug o
terbacker an’ a book he borrered.” He fell
into a silent brooding on the iniquities
of debtors. The reporter indicated the
message on the door. “Yair,” nodded
the hatter, “he writ that up —aw, must
be five or six year ago now —an’ I bin
romin’ back every couple munce or so
ever since but he ain’t bin here. You
reckon he knows I’m waitin’ f’r that two
bob an’ stuff?” Whereupon the reporter
muttered something about “having to get
along” and departed.
“Zake”: Some of our bush pubs pride
themselves on their unusual monickers,
but they’re unimaginative compared with
some the Old Dart could muster when
I was there. Cambridge had one inn
called Man Loaded with Mischief, In
Buxton was The Silent Woman —a most
unusual pub that. A Yorkshire town
had The Naked Man, and one in Not-
tingham was named A Trip to Jerusa-
lem. / Old Fox with His Teeth Drawn,
Cow and Bagpipes, Goat in Boots and
Ass in a Bandbox bespoke the influence
of the native fauna. London had quite
a swag, among them Bag of Nails,
World Turned Upside Down and Rent-
day. And I’d like to find a beer-foundry
with a less elongated name than a Lan-
cashire pub’s —Q.
“Salmon Gums”; I’ve located due
south so often by prolonging the axis of
the Southern Cross four and a half times
that when “M 8” suggested that it should
be three and a half times (B. 25/6/’47)
I had to overcome a habit of years to
consider the point. I can’t recall where I
first acquired the knowledge—it was
probably one of those useful bits I’d
picked up as a kid from my dad or some
of his prospecting mates —and inquiries
I’ve made lately have revealed only a
surprising lack of astronomical know-
ledge amongst my acquaintances. I
borrowed a compass, located south by
both figures and decided that the com-
pass, which gave me a bearing between
the two points, was affected by my
proximity to an iron house. Moved
further off and found the instrument
definitely drawn by a rock outcrop.
Thought of leaving the ranges and going
down to the plains near Perth when I
realised that I didn’t know the magnetic
variation for the district or the “error”
of this particular compass. Every com-
pass has a certain error which should
be marked on the case and must be
allowed for when striking bearings. All
told, I think I’d as soon trust a bearing
obtained by “MS’s” method or my own
as rely on a strange compass in a strange
locality.
* * * •
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a pretty hot day
when the bloke in the new motor-truck
pulled up beside Mat and me on the
Koondrook-road, just out of Cohuna
(Vic.). We threw our swags in and
climbed aboard, learning with pleasure
that he was heading for Sfaan Hill. Pre-
sently he remarked, “You’re not Aus-
tralians.” “No?” said Mat, astonished.
“No. I kin tell that be the way you roll
your swags. What country you from?”
“We’re Scowegians,” Mat answered,
nudging me. “Where’s that?” “Aw, it’s
a little country between Bulgaria and the
Orkneys.” “You bin out here long?”
“Well, not very long.” Silence, while the
truck pushed down the river road and
the heat in the cabin increased. Spake
the driver, “It didn’t take y’ long t’ talk
English.” Mat nudged me again and
yabbered unintelligibly. I yabbered back,
waving my arms, nodding and giving
short bursts of laughter like a fox on a
frosty night Mat yabbered some more,
then said to the driver, “Splentit choke,
ha, ha. Goot, goot.” The driver pon-
dered. “S’pose y’ talk more’n one langu-
age eh?” Mat yabbered in a different
key. “That is the Russian,"’ I sai&
earnestly. “He means big fish in river,”
The driver was impressed. I yabbered.
Mat told him it was Flemish-Dutch. So
it went on. Presently Swan Hill heaved
in sight. “I suppose,” the driver re-
“Cut out the language, Sam—it ain't good for the boy!"
marked, “you chaps could do a drink?”
“Too bloody right!” we roared. It was
about then that he began to think hard.
* * * *
“Larsen”: Although I don’t doubt his
veracity, what intrigues me about
“LD.W.’s” statement re an B|lb. fiathead
being caught with a 31b. tailer inside it
(B. 2/7/’47) is how it came to get around
such a meal. All the flatheads of my
experience have been bottom-living and
-feeding fish, notable for their sluggish-
ness. On the other hand the tailer is a
living torpedo; its most favored zone
the surface oT not far below. As for
speed; often when working on fairly
lofty rigging, which gave a view into the
deeps of 20 to 30 feet, I have watched
the tailer at work on a school of mullet,
itself no slow mover since it is the chief
prey of the porpoise. Like flashes of
living silver the tailer would dart at the
fleeing mullet, chopping with needle-
sharp teeth, snapping whole mouthfuls
completely out in the one bite. The
tailer is the real tiger of Australian seas:
it would unhesitatingly chop a lump out
of the sluggish flathead did it come across
one in mid-water. So I can only con-
clude that “LD.W.’s” tailer must have
escaped after being meshed in a net, then
dropped injured to the bottom; for,
although such a savage, the tailer is never-
theless very delicate and withstands hand-
ling perhaps less'than any other fish.
* * * *
“Flip”: Harry cheered at the furphy
that Bombina was to have water piped
down from Dromedary mountain; his
tanks had rung fairly hollow for many
years. A later dispatch from Signal H.Q.
—Stacey’s, rear counter —brought dis-
appointment, and he learned that the
water would be piped straight from the
mountain to the town and that properties
like his would still have to use tanks. On
his way home that afternoon Harry
came across the surveyors, plotting the
dead-straight line with their red-and-
white markers. They told him that the
workmen digging the line would follow
them in about a fortnight, and that “No,
they could not bend the- line a little
nearer his house.” Harry left them and
continued home,, to pensively tap his tank
some more. Amazingly, when the pipe-
line had officially been opened by the
Mayor, a careful check on its direction
showed a digression from the true-straight
which took it, in a long curve, to within
a hundred yards of Harry’s home. An
equally close scrutiny of Harry’s kids in
the following couple of weeks would
show them with a sizable jingle in their
pockets. They also had a supply of
“red-and-whites” which they darkly re-
ferred to as “left-overs” and used for
playing “cigarette cards.” No one knows
how the line acquired its bend, but in
later life those kids once distinguished
themselves by switching, with practised
hands, all the signposts in the town and
sending unschooled tourists heading for
Bourke instead of Brisbane.
* * * *
“Achilpa”: The mutton-bird might be
regarded as the most populous of Aus-
tralia’s birds (B. 25/6/’47) by coastal
dwellers, but the belief is certainly not
shared by other inhabitants of the con-
tinent. Wander up into the Victorian
Mallee if you want to back the parrot
tribe. See a mob of galahs grey the sun,
or a colony of ibis when the locust is
hatching, and you’d put your socks on
either. My own choice is the budgerigar,
Only folk in the far inland can ever
have an idea of their incredible numbers,
for the flocks disperse as they come
south. As they reached us one morning m
the Jervois Range, some couple of hun-
dred miles north-east of Alice Springs,
they were in a procession which stretched
back to infinity. The lowest were little
above arm’s length up; above, the mob
was 20 to 30 deep. They didn’t scream,
as most parrots do when flying, but
whispered ; that and the crisp wing-beat
made a noise like the dry rustling of a
swarm of locusts. When they lighted at
thp waterhole they were in long lines ;
the front row dipped, drank, and as it
rose into the air the next row stepped
forward for its turn. How many were
there? My cobber, a bit of a mathe-
matician, was delightfully definite. Any
number from a hundred thousand to half
a millidh was his pronouncement.
“B. A. Ker”: Budgerigars are un-
predictable creatures. Long ago grass
parrots (as we called them then) fre-
quented the tall box-trees in the pad-
docks, and I wondered why they never
joined in the general avian ablutions at
the fringes of the creek. Unhappily,
progress has come to the district and the
budgerigars have? gone. But for years I
kept their multicolored brethren in a
huge aviary, where, in spite of the ex-
ample set by various finches, nuns, naimi-
kins and canaries, who revelled in the'
bird-bath, the budgies refused to be in
the swim—even on the hottest day. Re-
marking on the fact to other bird-fanciers
I found that all agreed on the bird’s
aversion to washing. Then, after 10
years of keeping bath-shunning budgies,
I was amazed to find two (out of a dozen)
wallowing through the water vessel, wings
held up like a long-skirted woman cross-
ing a muddy patch. The first across flew
to a low perch, watched the mate do the
trip, then flew down to take up the relay.
That happened last winter. They did it
again this winter, again choosing a day
when the watery sun was fighting a losing
battle with a wind blowing from the snow
country.
* » * *
“G’roper”: I suppose it’s the thing to
discount the entertainment efforts of
snakecharmers as fakes (B. 2/7/’47), but
I myself visited “G’snatcher’s” “pit of
death” in Perth a few years ago. On
this occasion the squawking fowls were
absent (perhaps the R.S.P.C.A. had been
on the job), but I did see the male per-
former descend into his snake pit and
pick up by the scruff of the neck a
Murray River tiger snake, about whose
deadliness and viciousness there could be
no question. His method was to attract
the serpent’s attention by means of a
fluttering handkerchief ;, his bare hand
did the picking up. The star turn, how-
ever, was when an unmistakable bushie
appeared with a sugarbag full of squirms,
which, on being emptied into the pit,
proved to be three very lively 4ft. black
snakes. Picking up one, Rocky forced
open its mouth, to show that it was well
fanged; then offered his second finger.
The snake bit—and held on. For close
on a minute it maintained its bulldog
grip, hanging suspended from the
charmer’s finger Fake? Not by the
way Rocky slashed open the fang wounds
with a sterilised razor and then got hot
water and his antidote to work. There
was an offer of £2O to anyone willing to
submit to a second bite. No takers.
THE ROARING RINGER.
My name is Joe from the Warrego,
The riptail, roaring ringer;
The outback bore has tales galore
Of Joe the Campfire Singer.
I’m here and there and everywhere,
I’m back before you know—
Just up and over, Rover, Drover,
Rambling Campfire Joe.
I take a pull at a wild scrub bull,
I sit on him and tie him;
An outlaw colt that can buck and bol
I’ll for a show hack buy him.
All day I ride in the spaces wide .
Where the dead men’s bones are lying*
And pelicans nest on the he-man’s chest
While crows come backward flying.
A cove I knew on the Far Paroo
Could play the ukulele —
When he would strum the snakes would come
And dance before him gaily.
Way out west where the folk are best
The tall blue grass is waving,
There’s a bushbird’s song in your beard grown
long— , .
There ain’t no time for shavmg.
There ain’t no hymn in the morning dim,
You have no Christmas hamper
But eat a hunk of hard salt junk
And crust of a half-baked damper.
But, spare-me-days, I know the ways
Of the land 1 love, and so
I’m up and over, Rover, Drover,
Rambling Campfire Joe.
QUEENSLAND.
SCOT.


TEAM UP &JF im .
for a Service that » C m handle it better lot you.
whatever you waul to buy. A.M.L. &
AG.22.17
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. ltd.
(INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863)
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, WACCA, MOREE, fIENTY AND HA#
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
G£.
To Remedy BONE
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
ol any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent, iitne.
—————————— A ll particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
J
m
rrn
■/ V:
CVanogaS
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY„ LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop, the
MARS Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. All essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - - all gear teeth are generated.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Piy. Ltd.
dsf
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC.—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombav.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
«.
Masumcturers
metals
I
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“DONT WORRY. IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS”
Fly Repellents.
“J.R.D.”: Two experiments by N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture last year
proved that benzene hexachloride is
promising for preventing fly strike. It
was made into an emulsion and squirted
on to rams’ heads. Thirty rams got a
half-gallon per head ; none were struck
on the head within 10 weeks of treatment,
while untreated rams had 15 per cent,
of head strikes. In the second experiment
a third-gallon per head was used, and
during the following two months the
rams were free from strike, whereas a
control group of 209 untreated rams had
50 strikes.
Previous tests showed that benz. hexa-
chloride as a jetting fluid would kill
maggots. It is the chemical from which
gammexane, known as “666,” is manu-
factured, the product being more con-
centrated. The possible uses of gam-
mexane for control of insect pests are
widespread and, if certain problems are
solved, we may expect revolutionary
advances in dipping and jetting, and in
insect sprays and repellents.
But until experiments are complete
these new products will not be available'
for general use. At present all gam-
mexane used in Australia is imported,
but local manufacture is on the way,
though it will be months before even
small supplies are available. All imports
are now for experimental purposes ; some
for making bran baits for grasshoppers.
Sufficient supplies are unlikely to be
available before the end of this year.
Air Freighting.
“Hatchlands”: Mid-winter beans have
been sold recently in Adelaide and Mel-
bourne less than 24 hours after leaving
Carnarvon (W.A.). Growers are finding
that at a special rate of 7d. to Bd. a lb.
there is a good profit. Tasmanian straw-
berries flown to every capital city have
met with a keen demand, and flowers are
being daily flown south from sub-tropical
gardens. They sell at a premium.
Air transport of *beef-cattle on the hoof
from Northern Australia to Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide is planned. Several
air freighters, each carrying up to
10,0001 b. deadweight, will be used. Load-
ing will be done during the afternoon at
Darwin, Daly Waters and Wyndhanvand
by flying at night the animals will be
landed in prime condition next morning.
Last year about 25,000 cattle were
brought from Central Australia to Adel-
aide. Bullocks can be railed from Alice
Springs for less than £3 a head, but they
have to be transported to the railhead ;
loss in carcass weight averages over 501 b.,
while loss - in quality may be anything
from 2s. to ss. a 1001 b. A complete
dairy herd was recently flown from Tas-
mania to the mainland, and S.A. Merino
breeders used special planes to take their
rams to this year’s Sydney Sheep Show.
Maintenance of bloom and condition and
big saving in time more than compen-
sated for higher freight rates.
Soil Management.
“Archaps”; Writing in the “Queensland
Agricultural Journal,” W. J. S. Swan
says there is no doubt that organic matter
is of great value in arresting soil erosion,
but there is no evidence that the correct
use of balanced fertilisers has directly
caused it on a large scale. In general,
would-be agricultural reformers claim
that the salvation of agriculture is
in the adoption of “back to nature”
methods, i.e., the abandonment of in-
organic fertilisers and a revision of
methods of soil preparation and crop
cultivation.
No modern agriculturist fails to appre-
ciate the merits of organic matter in soil
conservation and crop production, but
the “artificiality” of agriculture is a
problem which cannot be overcome.
Under natural conditions the law was
survival of the fittest, but under cultiva-
tion the aim is to prevent the growth of
all plants other than the main crop. An-
tagonism to the use of so-called “arti-
ficial inorganic fertilisers” is unscientific
and not based on sound experimental
data.
Fertilisers like potash, guano, lime and
sodium nitrate are derived from natural
deposits and are, says Swan, no more
“artificial” than mineral particles of the
so f il. The population of micro-organisms
is higher in soils treated with organic
manures, but the normal ratio of appli-
cation of inorganic fertilisers has not
been proved to be harmful to those
organisms. Nor has it been shown that
the resistance of plants to pests and dis-
eases and the quality of produce were
lowered by the use of balanced inorganic
fertilisers.
Inorganic fertilisers have been very
useful on eroded soils in helping the
establishment of soil-stabilising plants,
and their use in sugarcane-growing pro-
duced larger crops and so made avail-
able a greater quantity of trash and roots
for incorporation in the soil. There is,
however, no question that inorganic fer-
tilisers must be used intelligently, other-
wise results might be disappointing.
Criticism of modern agricultural methods
is essentially based on the question
whether land should be cultivated deeply
and the organic matter turned under, or
whether soil preparation should be
limited to chopping up weeds and crop
residues in the top two or three inches
of the soil.
Over a number of years field-station
experiments were conducted in the Great
Plains and Columbia River basin of the
U.S.A. Small grain crops, chiefly wheat,
were grown and the soil treatments in-
cluded leaving all the residues on the
surface, leaving a portion pf the resi-
dues on the surface, and completely
burying the residues. Yields were much
the same for all soil treatments, and the
conclusion is that the need for leaving
crop residues on the surface was largely
dependent on a long-term view of erosion
rather than materially influencing current
yields. Experience has taught that most
soils and farms needed their own indi-
vidual treatment, and dogmatic opinions
are unwise and usually not in the best
interests of the farmers and the com-
munity generally.
Navy Beans.
“J. D. Rose”; Farmers on the N.S.W.
New England are doing well out of navy
beans. Being rich in protein the beans
are great bodybuilders. For ewes in
lamb they may be soaked overnight and
fed with an equal quantity of corn, this
“I reckon that Isaac Newton bloke was
a liar!”
mixture being relished more than the dry
bean. Tests have proved, however, that
stock will eat the beans if turned into a
paddock where they have been grown
solely to be fed-off. Bean hay remaining
in a paddock after threshing is also of
value.
For pigs and poultry it is best to cook
the beans for a couple of hours or more,
and if available mix with a small quan-
tity of bran or pollard. The protein
helps in egg production. Added to these
advantages the navy bean is a tonic for
the soil, being a legume.
The Poultry House.
“Myrrhee”: In Victoria face it north
or east, make it solid at the back arid
ends and build ’it up 2ft. 6in. from the
ground in front. Size will depend on the
number of birds to be housed. If there
is to be no outside run allow four square
feet of floor space for each bird. A shed
30ft. long by 15ft. deep-or 20ft. long by
20ft. deep, 7ft. 6in. high in front and 6ft.
at the back will house 100 birds comfort-
ably. Straw litter 4in. to 6in. deep will
give the birds scratching exercise, and
when replaced in three or four months
will make an A 1 fertiliser. Place all
fittings-perches, nests, feed troughs,
hoppers and water vessels—about 2ft.
frOm the floor to give the birds more
room, facilitate cleaning and keep out
the dirt.
Bracken Destruction.
“Atlanta”: Mark Goldstein, a dairy-
farmer of Gleniffer (N.S.W.), beat a
heavy growth of bracken on 100 acres
of hilly country by clearing
the land of logs and fallen
timber, then -mowing the
fern. After- this a tractor
and cut-away disc harrow
(commonly known as “bush
and bog”) was put over the
land. Topdressed with \
ton of lime per acre, the
slopes were sown in March-
April with 151 b. Wimmera
rye grass, 21b. red clover,
11b. white clover and 2cwt.
o f superphosphates per
acre. (In parts of Victoria
and elsewhere it is likely
that Italian rye could be
substituted for the Wim-
mera with equally good re-
sults. Furrows made by the
harrow disc are hard under-
neath and form a perfect
bed for rye grass.) Light
pasture (chain) harrows were
used after sowing.
Grazing stock on the ex-
cellent pasture which fol-
lowed during winter and
early spring trampled the
reerowth of fern and helped
to keep it under control.
However, Goldstein ran the
mower over infested areas
as often as possible, cutting
a+ least twice a year, often
three or ioui times. He
avoided burning where pos-
sible.
Dried mown fem and
rubbish will rot quickly
when disced into the soil and
provide an invaluable layer of organic
matter. This method also wiped out
useless blady grass, and small suckers
and other rubbish went, too.
The Country Garden.
“Pat O’Day”: With July there is work
for country gardeners in high and windy
districts. The month is good for planting
additional trees, shrubs and herbaceous
plants. But where cold winds may play
havoc, careful staking of all freshly-
planted trees and replenishment of a little
more gravel soil round other trees, roses
and shrubs that may be uprooted by the
winds are necessary. The manures and
loamy soil round roses tend to wash
away during winter rains.
Trenching of unmade portions of
gardens is much preferable to ploughing,


For Sale.
CLIMDIJMG TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
H.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders,
sign of Eczema.
Constant scratching is oxten a
Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
BARKO
Si>2
CHARTS
Circular Charts In ai) type* o 3
Recording Instruments tor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Gnt oui quotation*
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. I 111. BRISBANE. o*lo.
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection it
vited. Samples of cord,
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication.
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Horderns)
Improved
SPRA YIRRIGATION SY
gives Greater Efficiency
\ at LOWER COST J
OVJ^
|- ,RU6 iillMllff
cross
t»o
60 /2C
COMBINED OUTLET-HYDRANT of simple but
ingenious design is trouble-free, more efficient, yet
costs less than half old method. Minimum
obstruction in both outlet and main.
NEW TYPE FLEXIBLE COUPLING of pressed steel
construction stands up to rough usage. Quick
action, positive lock. 20 degrees flexibility.
IMPROVED SPRAY HEAD gives flat
square spray . . . used with 24 ft. pipes
gives 48 ft. coverage . . . one-third less
handling and work. Screw-on top.
NEW STANDS WITH NO CROSSBARS
eliminate interference to growing vegeta-
tion. Sturdy angleiron .' . . welded
construction.
Literature on request.
Rainbow
SPRAY IRRIGATION
83 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Factory: Pyrmont)
“HANDY HINTS FpR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or l/2£ posted from Bulletin Office, 252
George Street, Sydney.
H.P.
(Aj
?
i
ill
%
IN
MBSIjUB
mWm
■O
: M
WHAT you get for what you pay, to put it bluntly, is
the measure of value. Price is purely incidental. To buy
on the basis of lowest price may be a false economy • • •
it may mean highest price in the end
Ronaldson-Tippett Engines are NOT the lowest-priced
engines built, but on a basis of performance they certainly
return value far In excess of the price you pay. .
To make certain that every Ronaldson-Tippett Engine is up
to standard, each individual engine is run in, then checked
over and finally put on a brake test for horse-power. The
Ronaldson-Tippett policy is to see that EVERY engine carries
its rated horse-power on its specified fuel consumption. Value
is MEASURED and PROVED on the testing block before
you buy!
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms; 0-iS Bourke Street. MELBOURNE
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.,
Frazer House. 42 Bridge Street, SVDNEV
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd..
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street. BRISBANE.
ROMRLDSOH-TIPPETT
and the following method is a good one.
Mark the area to be trenched into several
squares, and do each square separately.
Allow for 3ft.-deep trenches so tnat
allowance is made for removal (to be
put near by ready for replacement) of lit.
of topsoil and 1 ft. of subsoil, thus ensur-
ing that the clay-like structure of the
bottom soil is well worked up with spade
and fork before the top layers are put
Soil so improved will grow anything,
but it is unnecessary for Pinus cupresses
or similar trees, as they grow with much
less working of soil. Pines need only to
be planted in gravel soil to grow well.
But shrubs will benefit considerably, even
in inferior soil, from the trenching
method. A great variety of flowers may
be grown in this improved soil.
Hints for the Farm.
“Dub”: There is no need to cut the
throat of every ewe with an eye picked
out if a small packet of sulphanilamide
powder is carried when doing the rounds
of the lambing ewes. A tablespoonful
placed in the eye-socket, pushed well in
and retained with a piece of cotton
wool or clean cloth, will result in eight
out of ten ewes being saved, provided
they are not left tod long before being
treated.
“Goldie”: Boring holes with hammer
and bitted steels comes easier and faster
when plenty of water is used, pumping
the sludge freely from the holes by
jumping the drills strongly and often.
A piece of bag at the hole-collar pre-
vents splash. For firing waterproof the
connection between fuse and detonator
—axle-grease is hard to beat —and simply
fill the hole with water in place of
tamping material.
“Myrrhee”: Plant citrus in Septem-
ber, both bare- and ball-rooted trees.
At this time of year the young growth
is less likely to suffer frost damage than
if the trees are put out in the winter.
They’ll come away quicker, too, as the
weather warms up. Trim the roots of
the “unballed” trees and cut back the
tops severely. Ball-rooted trees will
need a hole big enough to accommodate
the ball. Leave the hessian in position
(it will quickly rot) and press the earth
firmly around the roots, but not too
tightly, particularly in heavily-textured
soils. Finally give the tree a thorough
watering and don’t let it dry out during
the warm weather.
“Sarina”: Although hydrocyanic gas
treatment (in expert hands) is more effec-
tive against citrus scale than any other
remedy, any spray that deposits a coat-
ing on the branches of trees will do. The
scale formation is caused by tiny para-
sites which speedily die when they are
covered with starch, soda, etc., sprayed
on. We have found liquid molasses
highly effective against pink wax scale
of citrus.
“Sundowner”: Bracken can be
dangerous to cattle, particularly during
a hard winter. Where the bracken per-
sists pastures should be managed so
that there is always sufficient feed and
adequate roughage. Supplementary feed-
ing with oaten hay helps. Don’t let
calves into a paddock containing
bracken,
“Gip”: A good method of boding the
billy when wood is scarce or wet is to
punch a few large holes around the top
of a small tin, half-fill it with sand, then
pour in a small amount of petrol (kero-
sene may be used, but makes a lot of
smoke). When set alight this gives a
good heat.
“Will C”: Spread of vegetable
diseases and pests is assisted where plants
are permitted to struggle \on for months
after the crop is finished. When a vege-
table crop is finished the declining plants
should be pulled out and burned or
turned under for green manure if not
visibly diseased. Pests and/or disease
spores are left with nothing to bite on,
so to speak, and have to move on instead
of waiting about for next year’s crop.
“E.M.R.”: A fairly good method of
culling the poultry is by the color of
the legs. When the feed does not supply
sufficient coloring matter for the egg
yolk the fowl draws on its own body for
it. This bleaches body and legs. The
heavy , layers will have nearly-white
shanks while the non-layers will be bright
yellow, (Take note of the pullets that
have not started to lay.) In black-legged
varieties I always part the feathers and
note the color of the flesh. Green feed
helps to keep up the supply of coloring
matter. *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) How to grow pineapples from tops?
(2) When and how is calcium carbide adminis-
tered to the tops?
(1) The pineapple top should be cut off just
below the junction with the flesh. The adhering
flesh and skin should be carefully removed, from
the base of the top, and the lower leaves care-
fully pulled off to expose the solid centre.
The top can then be planted with the base in
the soil up to the bottom of retained leaves.
(2) The following information is based on an
article in the “Queensland Agricultural Journal”
of May 1, 1945: The treatment consists in
introducing a small quantity (approx. 2 fluid
oz.) of a saturated solution of the gas into
the heart of each plant or ratoon, where it is
retained in contact with the growing point by
means of the leaves cupped around it. Pro-
vided no rain falls within 24 hours and tem-
perature conditions are favorable, only a single
application of the solution is necessary to induce
the formation of a flower bud, which appears
six to eight weeks later. Several methods of
preparing a saturated solution of acetylene in
water have been wprked out. The simplest
of these consists in dropping a medium-sized
handful (3oz. to 40z.) of ordinary commercial
carbide into a kerosene bucketful of water and
then stirring gently until evolution of gas from
the carbide has ceased. The solution so pre-
pared may be applied to the plants by any
convenient means; a knapsack sprayer fitted
with a trigger release and with the nozzle re-
moved has been found very satisfactory for
this purpose. For advancing the peak of the
winter crop from August to May, the best
month for treating the plants is October, i.e.,
three to four months before the flower buds
would normally appear in them. The fruit
harvested in May from acetylene-tfeated plants
may be slightly smaller than that which would
have been obtained from the same plants in
July or August, had they been allowed to
flower normally, but this difference in size is
more than offset by reduced wastage from
diseases and the better quality of the fruit
due to its improved flesh color and its higher
sugar and acid content. It should be noted that
the size of the fruit which will develop from
an acetylene-treated plant is largely determined
by the size and vigor of the plant at the time
of treatment. Partially-developed or undersized
plants should not be forced into flower by this
means. The acetylene treatment may also be
used during late February and early March
to force a crop for December and January.
* * * *
(1) Simple method of winnowing wheat by
hand? (2) Supplier of economical machine for
stripping wheat in small quantities ? (3) Supplier
of machine for milling wheat ?
(1) In small quantities, rub the wheat heads
between both hands or rub together in small
bag. In larger quantities place in bag or
tarpaulin and thrash with long stick or suitable
implement. For final cleaning in both cases
it will be necessary to separate the glumes from
the grain. This can be done by selecting a
day when there is a fairly strong breeze blow-
ing and exposing the uncleaned sample to it.
Pour the sample out in a steady flow from the
container, holding it above ground level at the
required height—probably 4ft. to 6ft. This
process may have to be repeated two or three
times. A tarpaulin or bags could be used to
catch the grain. The grain being heavier will
fall on to the tarpaulin while the glumes, pieces
of straw, etc., will be carried away in the breeze.
(2) Robinson and Co., Spotswood (Vic.). (3)
Thos. Robinson and Sons, Ltd., Sussex-street,
Sydney; Henry Simons (Aust.), Ltd., Grose-
street, Glebe (N.S.W.); Van Gelder and Co.
Pty., Ltd., 66 Bay-street, Glebe (N.S.W.).


SMOKERS
Direct from Manufacturer to You
Special money-saving oiler of high-
class toasted pipe tobaccos blended
with the best imported tobaccos.
bich dabk medium pipe
MIXTURE, 15/- per lb. Posted.
MEDIUM HIGH-CEASS PIPE
MIXTURE, 13/6 per lb. Posted.
high-cuass toasted ready-
rubbed PINE CUT TOBACCO,
17/- per lb. Posted.
Make your post box your nearest store.
Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
What a Trustee should know...
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, abate all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
ff you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why n °t appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
%
Board of Directors
A. E. Bond, Chair-
man ; Cecil H. Doyle ;
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E.,
V.D.; F. H. Way;
G. Moncrieff Barron,
0.8. E., M.8.0H.M.,
F.R.A.C.S.; J. B.
Faviell.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Asst. Mgr.:
C. N. P. Whittle.
ANENT
TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS; 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Relieve
NASAL
SORENESS due to coins
Don’t suffer—when your nose feels
dried out, or sore, apply Coticura
Ointment to aid quick relief.
Always keep a tin handy—good
for cuts, bruises and sores. One of
the famous trio—Cuticura Oint-
ment, Soap and Talcum Powder. 53s
■iticura
OINTMENT
"Leave those ropes alone, Ronnie; you can't pull it in any closer !”
vicious roll. The breakfast, floating In
several inches of seawater, sloshed around
his scrawny bare shins.
“That’s right!” he screamed. “Roll
y’ r bloody guts out! Roll y’r bloody
self right over!”
The Isobel rolled to port and a mixture
of sausages, seawater and eggs trailing
half-cooked yolks cascaded over the sill
into the alleyway.
. Call y rself sailors! ” the thoroughly
infuriated cook shouted, catching sight
of Peter. “I could do better meself.
Well, there goes y’r bloody breakfast!
Get a knife and fork and chase it.”
Peter went on with his search for the
leak. It was not hard to locate. The
for ard bulkhead of the deckhouse had
opened up where it joined the deck. He
could see it working. Further investi-
gation showed that none of the water
was finding its way below into hold
or engineroom. Though certainly un-
comfortable for all hands the leak was
not dangerous^
Peter climbed back to the bridge. He’d
have to do something about it, he realised.
Dangerous or not, that working bulkhead
proved that the ship was straining her-
self. He did the only possible thing—
brought her round with the sea on her
quarter. He hated doing it—hated it
because it was an admission that his ship
was unseaworthy.
She lay easier in her new course—not
a great deal for, as Olsen mournfully
pointed out, she still wallowed like a
pig in mud and she still crashed that
infernal belting down as she wallowed.
Still, her movements were not so jerky
and that was the main thing. Peter’s idea
was to hold this course for eight hours
and then bring her round with the sea
on her shoulder—practically tack her to
her destination.
He . was worried about his position.
And no wonder! Taking sights from
that wildly gyrating bridge must have
been a feat of athletics as well navi-
gation, added to which the raw helms-
men could seldom hold the ship to within
.10 degrees of her course.
J UST before sundown on the third day
out Peter made a discovery that
made all his previous worries appear
trivial. He was leaning over the starb’d
wing of the bridge studying the effects
of the belting on the ship’s movement
when he caught sight of a sheet of loose
metal.
Leaning far out he waited for the next
roll. Over she heeled, revealing torn
and twisted sheathing and great patches
of bare hull. She was shedding her
metal! With that violent motion the
copper sheathing nails were losing their
hold in her soft old timbers.
It took Peter a few minutes to realise
that if she could do this she might at
any moment start spewing the caulking
from her seams. And that, of course,
would be the end.
He went into the chartroom and care-
fully plotted out his position. As nearly
as he could judge he was a good 15 hours
steaming from the entrance to the China
Straits—the nearest shelter. To head
straight for it would bring the sea almost
on the beam again but he judged it to
be the wisest plan.
Poor young devil! He had no one to
turn to for advice. He couldn’t even
discuss it with the pessimistic Olsen, who
had long ago made up his mind that his
skipper was lost and that they would
never see land again. His ship was
practically going to pieces under him and
Peter daren’t tell a soul in case his raw
crew panicked.
He got a star sight that night. It
fitted in fairly well with his dead-
reckoned position, so he could only
keep on and hope for the best. What a
night he must have put in! Clinging to
that wildly-swaying bridge, wondering if
his-decision was the right one, wonder-
ing if he’d miscalculated his position,
and wondering if he’d ever get his de-
crepit old ship to port before she opened
up.
And the bitterest part of that long,
anxious night was the realisation that
this wonderful ship of his was cranky,
vindictive and thoroughly rotten —un-
worthy of any man’s love.
It had developed into a sort of contest
by now —a bitter contest between youth
and old age; he, determined to get her
to port, forcing her along by sheer will-
power, and she, doing her best to destroy
herself and end her aged sufferings.
J T would be hard to say whether Peter’s
1 navigation was a matter of luck or
sheer genius. A dash of each, I think,
for he made a perfect landfall. Land
had been in sight since the first break
of dawn and by sunrise Peter was sure
of his position. Haggard and unshaven,
hungry and utterly worn out he still had
his one moment of triumph.
“The China Straits are just beyond that
cape, he informed Olsen, “Another two
hours and we’ll be in calm water,”
The breeze had dropped noticeably
since dawn and the sea, though still
steepish, was blue and sparkling. Only
the tallest wave tops were capped with
white, and there wasn’t a cloud in the
sky. It’s queer how fate plays with you,
isn’t it? Just ten minutes later a white-
faced, scared engineer climbed to the
bridge.
Peter knew what was coming before
he spoke. Last night—last year it seemed
—he’d warned the Chief to keep trying
his pumps and to inform him if the ship
was making water. All through the night
he’d been expecting, dreading this visit.
The engineroom was flooded, the engineer
gasped. The water was coming up
through the floor and the pumps couldn’t
cope with it.
Peter nodded and followed him below.
The end was not far off, he realised, as
he looked down into the engineroom and
saw a foot of seawater, dirty and irides-
cent with oil, swirling to and fro around
the steadily-throbbing engine,
“Keep her going. Chief,” he said, trying
to sound unconcerned. “Another hour
will see us there.”
He broke the news to Olsen then and
told him to muster the hands and get the
port lifeboat ready for lowering. The
Isobel carried two small boats, each
capable of carrying her entire crew.
“Tell them to put in anything they
value,” he said. “There’s plenty of time.
We may not need to use it at all.”
I think Olsen was almost pleased to
see his prophecy coming true.
“Vot I tell you?” he demanded, his
stolid face actually showing animation.
“I tell you she vos no good. A man
should have yumped her in Townsville.”
“Shut up!” Peter snapped. “You’ll be
jumping her soon enough. Get the boat
ready.”
They stowed their personal gear in
the boat and clustered fearfully round it,
clinging for support while the old Isobel
rolled and crashed her way towards the
land.
Only Peter and the helmsman remained
on duty—the helmsman trembling and
afraid, Peter taut, tight-lipped, trying
desperately to will his ship on. She was
barely an hour’s steaming from the near-
est point but he doubted if she’d make
it; already he could sense the heavy
sluggishness of her movements as the
water rose in her hold and engineroom.
She would sink in sight of the palm-
"Aw, Skunky 's tired. Mum—be a sport and give him a lift in y’r pouch!”
trees along those sheltered beaches. And
the sea wasn’t really rough; at its worst
he’d logged it as a “Moderate beam
sea”—and now even that was falling.
That was the tragedy of it—the bitter
irony. The sun was rising into a clear
blue sky. If she’d been battering through
a furious gale I don’t think Peter would
have minded. He could have gloried in
the gallant fight she was putting up. But
this!
She was well down by the stem when
the engine spluttered feebly and died. N
use staying with her any longer; th
hands were jittery enough already, Pete
tossed his most valuable possessions int
the boat and gave the order to cast oi
the grips. He put two men in wit
instructions to keep it fended off whil
he and Olsen superintended the lowering
Hr HE old Isobel was vindictive to the
1 end. The lifeboat was in the wate
and the two deckhands were unhookinj
the falls when she gave her last desperat
roll.
She lifted her infernal belting high ou
of the water and before they could fenc
off she rolled back again. The belting
crashed down, smashing the boat, so tha
it swamped in a few seconds. Peter anc
Olsen hauled the two men out of the
water and got all hands on to the starb’c
boat. There wasn’t much time now; the
ship was settling fast.
It had been Peter’s intention to get
his crew safely off and to stay with his
ship until she took the final plunge.
With the romanticism of youth he still
felt he owed her that.
But the old harridan even denied him
that satisfaction. She’d smashed one boat
and he daren’t risk losing the second
one. With the Isobel lying broadside
to the seas the starb’d boat was on the
weather side and getting it clear was a
seaman’s job. Peter took the likeliest-
looking deckhand with him and went
down with the boat himself.
So he was actually the first to leave
the ship and the honor of being the last
man off fell to the cook.
They got the boat away, and they got
the entire crew off, though there was
some difficulty in persuading the cook
to leave. Evidently reasoning that the
safest place for the last of his grog was
inside him he was so full that he seemed
unable to grasp the fact that the ship
was sinking.
Not until Peter threatened to come up
and clout him with an oar did he make
a. move, then, completely ignoring the
lifeboat, he stepped solemnly into the
sea.
Olsen fished him out with the boat-
hook and they pulled clear.
Slowly, derisively it seemed to Peter,
the Isobel sank below the surface, dragged
down by the deadweight in her hold. The
contest was over and old age had won,
settling down to rest her aged bones
where no man could disturb her—leaving
youth with only a sense of defeat and a
host of bitter memories.


#
m
--
7 m
giruscid^
i
MW
s
ft
9*
-JSS
...Al’iii. -'V.'VN : ’•;•
GUARANTEED NEVER : Tfbj^DE_Oß_j^Rni^
os you FLY- in HOURS to
NEW ZEALAND
The Skyway i$ a luxury highway when you FLY to
New Zealand.
Speed is combined with the comfort of a first-class
hotel — w |th the finest of food and steward service.
Go by Air —fly your Freight, too—-by TASMAN.
Reservations for passengers and freight can be
made through any office or agent of Qantas
Empire Airways, principal agents in Aus-
tralia, any office of the Union Steam
Ship Company Ltd., and all
leading travel agencies.
TASMAN
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
MECHANIC'S BAY. AUCKLAND, N.Z.
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Lost, wire-haired terrier pup, no tail, answers
to name of Boozer.” —Suburban paper.
Perhaps he fell in the drink.
a* *1* *1*
“In Dallas a woman sought divorce because
her husband kept pouring gin into the goldlisn
bowl just to see the fish swish.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.
When asked to justify her plea
Of cruelty, in haste
The plaintiff said: “He’s kind to me
But oh! the cruel waste !”
* * * **•
“A woman who went to see psychiatrist
had a duck tucked under her arm.”
—Sydney Sun.
No harm. I’m sure,' befell the bird
That snugly ’neath her arm was tucked,
Nor can it fairly be inferred
That she who carried it was plucked.
Bert.
•i* . 4*. 4* *2*. „
“Every citizen is his own policeman.
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.
But he hasn’t a commissioner’s baton
in his knapsack.
* * * „ *
“Taxi-driver in golf semi-final.
—Sporting note.
His driving was phenomenal.
* H* •* . ,
“Carole Landis puts perfume in the crook
of her elbow.” —Sydney “ D.T
The scent must be intoxicating when
she bends it. >
. 4* 4*
“A male and a female wrestler have taken a
fall in love and married.” —Sydney “D.T.”
If they fall foul of each other they can
pack their grips and go.
•i- *5• ❖ .
“The bride might well have her say instead
of allowing the bridegroom respond for both
his bride and himself.” —“New Idea.”
But she’ll have it all afterwards.
•h 4* 4* 4*
“Punters at Grafton slept in pigs’ pen.
— “S.M.H.”
It was the bookies, however, who
finished up on the pig’s back.
•i* 4* 4* *i*
“Chifley sees a rainbow in the sky.”
—Melbourne “Sun.”
With a pot of gold at the foot of it
for the Taxation Department.
“I wish picture-theatre managers would start
a cloak room, where for a small fee damp
coats and umbrellas could be left.” „
New Idea.
It would save many a person from
coming home soaked.
•i* *i* *l* ~
“The elderly actress sat over her fnake-up.
—- Story .
Thus giving it a natural base.
.
“Today women can become almost anything
from ship’s engineers to Cabinet Ministers.
—Sydney D.T.
Yet few are attracted by life in the
House,
A Safe Bet.
“Ed Moffitt, of Hoboken (New Jersey), has
conceived the-idea of racing rats in separate
treadmills—first one to complete 150 turns or
the wheel is the winner. —Sydney u.i.
We’ve raced the horse and then the dog,
The humble goat and lowly hog,
And some in search of novelty
Have even raced the hurdling flea,
Till, in the end, by-passing cats.
Mankind is training speedy rats.
And out of all the rodent breed
That show a decent turn of speed,
Td never back, with book or tote,
The “Red” variety, for, you’ll note,
That rat would never get a place;
’Twould twist and turn so in a race.
D. H. E.
“No Restrictions.”
“Australian workers going to Guam were
refused passports, being only allowed documents
of identity.’ These documents had not been
issued with the intention of restricting the move-
ments of the men, an official said, but pro-
vision for their return to Australia was con-
sidered to be in the men’s own interests. Senator
Armstrong emphasised there was no interference
with personal liberty.”
The Acting-Deputy-Arranger of Mis-
directions, Anomalies and Nebulous
Technicalities put the tips of his fingers
“Draw for draw, Wilson —that's our last cigarette!"
together and regarded with a cold, fishy
eye the applicant seated opposite him.
“According to this application,” the
bureaucrat began pompously, “you wish
to go to Guam to work. Your application
for a passport must be refused.”
“But I always thought any lawful
citizen was entitled to leave the country
if he wanted to and if he had settled all
his debts. He can in England and
America and other democratic”
The A.D.A.M.A.N.T. raised bis eye-
brows at these queer views. “My good
sir,” he interrupted impatiently. “Those
ideas are old-fashioned. Besides, you
don’t happen to be living in or
America. Here, as in the U.S.S.R.”—
here he paused as if paying a silent tribute
to the Heaven on Earth where bureau-
crats average 864 to the square mile
“the individual’s relationship to the State
is constantly under review. Instead of
a passport you may, if the committee
presided over by delegates from th
Waterside Workers, the Ironworkers, the
Miners’ Federation, the Trades Hall
Council, the A.C.T.U. and certain selected
Government officials considers it advis-
able, be issued with *a document oi
lde “Now, what are your reasons for wish-
ing to go to Guam? Mind, I want you
clearly to understand that you are per-
fectly at liberty to refuse to answer this.
The only thing is that failure to tender a
satisfactory reply will automatically
render your application null and void.
“Well,” replied the slightly bewildered
a applicant. “I suppose it’s because I want
*to make some dough.”
The A.D.A.M.A.N.T. pushed a button
under his desk. In about five minutes a
clerk appeared. “Get me a copy or
Regulation V 2 B,” he ordered
In about 10 minutes the clerk returned,
with a thick volume. This the official con-
sulted at length, finally looking up and
fixing the applicant with a stern look.
“Whilst it is quite against Government
policy to encourage the profit motive, as
tending to make workers into little capi-
talists, it doesn’t appear to be provided
against in the Regulations. A pity, i
must draw the Minister’s attention to it.
“Now,” he went on, “before your
application to leave the country will be
% <
considered —and each one is decided on
its merits—there are certain formalities
to be observed. Mind-, you are not being
made to do this. The thought of apply-
ing compulsion in any shape or form is
abhorrent to the Government. The only
thing is if they are not completed in the
presence of a J.P., attested by at least
six reputable citizens, preferably union
officials, and countersigned by a Chamber
•Magistrate; not only will the application
be refused, but you might incur the dis-
pleasure of the Security Police.”
“Now on form GA 2 here ’ he held
up a blue form which he took from a
pile on the desk—“you are required to
disclose the number of budgerigars in
your possession as at date of application,
and whether your nephews or nieces have
any warts, fatty cysts, hangnails, hammer-
toes, prominent Adam’s apples or other
physical peculiarities; whether any of
your grandparents on either side was ever
convicted of arson, parking more than 18
inches from the kerb, bigamy or poaching
rabbits; whether you ever worked, or
offered to work, or attempted to offer to
work, in any office, shop, factory, mine,
foundry when your fellow-unionists were
on strike ; whether you take a bath every
day or once a week, and whether you
have attempted to prolong the period
between haircuts since the introduction of
the 40-hour week caused the price of
haircuts to go up to one and ninepence.
This form must be filled in in sextupli-
cate.”
“But, look”
The A.D.A.M.A.N.T. held up his hand
imperiously and took simultaneously a
deep breath and buff-colored form
XD 24. . .
“This form need only be filled in in
quadruplicate,” he went on sternly.
“You are required to state how many
mice were caught in your residence dur-
ing the past 10 years by (a) cats, (b)
traps, (c) poison or ( d) accident; whether
your wife sleeps on her left or right side,
and whether you turn over every time she
turns during sleep. Whether you ever paid
more than the fixed price for (a) bananas,
(b) harvesting machinery, (c) gumboots,
\d) vases (wall, pottery), and if so the
names of the individual, firm or com-
pany from whom it or they were pur-
chased. Also whether you intend to
criticise during the voyage or on arrival
at Guam any Australian Government,
any member of such Government or any
official in any Government department.”
“But”-
Again the A.D.A.M.A.N.T. held up
his hand. “You will also need to lodge
with the amended application and com-
pleted supplementary forms (1) certifi-
cates from a dentist, chiropodist,
osteopath, physician and psychiatrist
testifying to your fitness to leave the
country; (2) a statutory declaration that
the domestic animals you leave behind
will not be a charge upon the nation;
(3) a clearance signed by officials of your
union; and (4) a sworn affidavit that you
will join a union on reaching Guam.
You will, of course, submit to having
finger-, ear- and toe-prints taken. You
will be allowed to take out of the country
two pound ten Australian, though
you are at perfect liberty to dispose of
your other real and personal property
as you wish provided you get the written
consents of Land Sales Control, the
chairman of the Sydney Turf Club and
the Treasurer.”
“But what if I don’t like Guam and
want to go somewhere else? I’ll have
to come back two thousand miles to get
a passport.” , ,
the A.D.A.M.A.N.T. regarded the
applicant with disapproval. “That is
your personal affair,” he said severely.
“You shouldn’t want to go elsewhere.
But there’s nothing to stop you coming
back the two thousand miles to apply
for one—-nothing at all. Every facility,
in fact, will be put in your way. Above
all, the Government regards the liberty
of the individual as its sacred trust! ”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
i £
“Working for Chifley” " 1 .
This is what I found in a single day. in
Adelaide. A man who - runs a small
engineering shop which specialises in pre-
cision work reported, “I don’t want extra
work. Just enough to keep the shop run-
ning is all I need. If I take .on additional
jobs it means more time spent in chasing'
after materials in short supply, more wear
and tear on machines which I can’t re-
place and more growls from the staff
about being asked to work overtime.
And what do I get out of it? Nothing—
I’m working for Chifley.”
Later I ran into an old friend who has
often taken me- for a holiday cruise on
his fishing cutter. He goes out only in
fine weather now —“neither the boat nor
I are getting any younger,” he explained,
“so we’re both having a rest. In 1945
I chased after fish six days a week and
made nearly two thousand quid—and
paid more than two-thirds away in taxa-
tion. Last year I eased up a bit, but still
made about twelve hundred. Chifley got
most of that too. This year I’m staying
in the low-income group. I’m not work-
ing for Chifley.”
In the afternoon I asked a
man why he was doing so much adver-
tising, seeing that he couldn’t supply me
the advertised goods and didn’t know
when he’d have them. “You may get
some return ; from advertising,” he
growled. “You get none from paying
taxes. If you could do some building I’d
run up new premises to keep something
out of Chifley’s hands, but advertising is
the only way at present.”
These opinions were shared by an old
tradesman who has been a staunch
unionist all his life. He attributes go-
slow policies and industrial trouble partly
to Communists, but mainly to taxes—
“ These social services are all right in
theory, but who’s paying for it all? The
worker himself, by taxes. I’ve done no
overtime for a ) ear now and I won’t do
any until taxes come down.”
Go out yourself and take thfe opinions
of a similar cross-section of the Austra-
lian people and you’ll hear the same
thing on every side. I’m “self-employed,”
and I could make a lot more than I’m
doing, but I’m not working for Chifley.—
Forty-fiver (S.A.).
'd‘ * [ f
Cheap Houses
In the depression days, when building
materials were , plentiful bub money
scarce, hundreds of the homeless had to
slap up makeshift dwellings for their
families. On the outskirts of cities and
country towns such shack-like struc-
tures sprang up and, even when better
times came, some were not abandoned.
Their owners set about converting them
into better homes and many a toiler can
now look back and thank the depression
for providing him with his own house.
Today, with the housing shortage worse
than it has been since 1788, there are
few homeseekers who care about building
from the natural resources of the land.
“It’s easy for you people with comfort-
able homes to talk about mud shacks,”
they say, and, to a certain extent, they
are right. I have a comfortable home
—six rooms, w.b., e.L, bathroom, running
water and septic tank—but the old
wattle-and-dab shed out the back that
now shelters the chooks, dogs and horse
once sheltered me, my wife and two kids.
I started to ;build, that place in
1929. It cost me all I could afford on
“susso” —a few bob for nails —but it was
an improvement on the two old, patched
tents which were all we then possessed.
Three years later I got a constant iob,
but we didn’t rush away to become
tenants, as others in our position did.
Instead, we stayed on in the mud and
bark house and, mainly from the money
we would otherwise have paid in rent,
we built our present comfortable home.
I’d start off in the same way again to-
morrow if need be because I couldn’t
see myself paying rent or, as a basic-
wage earner, ever paying off one of those
very ordinary jobs so many workers are
waiting for today. They cost from £l2OO
to £l5OO. My comfortable house cost me
less than £4OO. —L. P. (Vic,).
Books and Children
“Worm” (B. 9/7/’47) poses a question
which isn’t answered merely by placing
“proper books” into the hands of
children “at the right time.”
The N, S. Wales Education Depart-
ment has adjeked the problem by ap-
pointing to each large secondary school a
qualified librarian who takes each class
on a regular weekly schedule and
attempts to guide the reading of his
charges into worth-while channels. He
usually finds it uphill going, and the
answer to the difficulty is found in any
bookshop or on any radio programme.
. Rows and rows of alleged “comics” of
the syndicated American type or its Aus-
tralian 1 imitations invite the juvenile reader •
to an orgy of crime, thrills and murder.
The condensed, sensational style of writing
for the strip-story enables the youngster
to' absorb a terrific amount of rubbish
before he has reached 40 years of age,
and its character breeds in him a pre-
cocity and. premature maturity which
causes him, even at that early age, to
thumb his nose at the gentle whimsies
of classics of the Wind in the Willows
type. Fed with this tabloid form of
reading he is appalled at the size of an
ordinary vbliime and shies resolutely
away from the lengthy Victorian classics/
In the daily newspaper he follows
avidly the pictorial adventures of violent
characters named “Itchy,” “Breathless”
and the like, and regards unmoved *the
body lying on the floor with three inches
of scissors buried in its vitals. In the
radio field he speedily * cultivates a
sophisticated contempt for the worth-
while juvenile “sessions,” preferring the
detective-crook offering with its nightly
exchange of shots or blows, or the
marital-problem type of serial. He enjoys
the violence and action of the former
and loses none of the mature inferences
of the latter.
By the tenth year, without wise parental
control his sense of values has been com-
“Let's boil the billy — I'm dying for a 'cuppa.'"
pletely upset and, worse, he has become
mentally lazy. Reading requires an effort,
so he sidetracks that effort by looking at
the strip-story or listening to the radio,
both of which are comparatively pain-
less. Set him on a classic and he .wilts
in no time because there is no easy,
passive way of absorbing its contents.
It is this insidious mental laziness that
provides the greatest problem, and until
it is solved making books available will
not cure, the ill. Bad .though the content
of the strip or serial may be, it is the
habit of substituting them for more
arduous reading that is the greater evil.
Until parents wake up to that danger—
it is not easy to convince them of it
because many have similar habits —the
teacher-librarian will continue to fight
a losing battle. I object to censorship
because of its negative outlook, but its
application in these cases seems to be
amply justified.—B.Ec. (N.S.W.).
Australians?
Resident in Papua I applied for the
benefits of the Soldier Land-settlement
Scheme and was told that Australia
had not granted us the privilege of land
settlement in the Territories as we were
not part of Australia! Yet we are forced
to pay Customs duties on Australian pro-
duce and postal notes are marked “pay-
able only within the Commonwealth of
Australia and Territory of Papua.”
Territorians suffer a further injustice
insofar as they have to buy Australian
flour at the highest world»market price.
So bread in Port Moresby is 2s. 2d. a
loaf.
Much is made of the fact that Terri-
torians pay no income tax, but little is
said of the high import duties imposed on
them. Last year I paid a few pence below
£5O in Customs dues, not on luxuries but
merely to live. That was on an income
of £4OO a year, and excluded duties paid
on goods bought in the stores. If a
referendum were taken, inhabitants would
prefer to pay income tax and delete all
import duties.
Discharged from the R.A.A.F. in Port
Moresby, I sent for my wife. We had
to pay duty on everything over the value
of £lOO. Later I was evacuated* medi-
cally to the mainland. We brought our
personal belongings back with us and
now are being asked to pay further im-
port duties on the same articles. That
in spite of the fact that everything we
possess was made in Australia.
Territorians have no representation-in
Parliament. They are subject to every
stupidity which Canberra likes to thrust
upon them and in spite of all this they
are still not citizens of Australia. Or am
I mistaken? I have just received an
income-tax form and on it is a footnote
under the heading “Returns: ‘Non-
resident’ means a person who is not a
resident of Australia... .Persons resident
in Papua, Norfolk Island or New Guinea
are deemed to be residents of Australia.”
• What does it mean? — Momokan (Q.).
J
New Guinea
The description of Lab in the Ward
time (B. 9/7/’47) jolted my memory back
to my time in New Guinea. During an en-
thusiastic'' discussion on post-war oppor-
tunities for young men in New Guinea,
an elderly officer from Angau had a'
word and threw some very cold
on our ideas. He had had 20 years in
N.G. and knew his subject. The coming
of the troops to the territory he described
as a calamity from which it might take
10 years to recover. Without a small
army of men engaged solely on main-
tenance work, all the army’s road-making
improvements would mejt away like sugar
in the torrential rains. Timber wharves
were useless —the only harbor installation
which would last for more than a few
years in that part of the tropics was a
concrete one firmly bedded on rock.
Already one American-built timber wharf
had just slipped into the sea and
vanished.
To be sure there were magnificent
cedar-trees growing along the big rivers
and they could be easily cut and the
timber floated down to a sawmill at the
river mouth, as was done with teak in
Burma. But the Administration regarded
those trees as the property of the natives,
who needed them for canoe building. On
the highlands there were huge stands of
kauri and other pines and it might be
possible to erect plants to handle them
and to carry out small but valuable pro-
ducts like plywood by air freight, but
that was a job for big companies. Gold-
mining could carry on in that way only
because it was in the big money. As
Lane-Poole’s report showed, there was
a wealth of timber in N.G. but nobody
had yet devised a way of milling it and
getting the sawn stuff to market from
the inland areas.
To some highfalutin, stuff about
“Educating the native up to our standard”
and “Paying them a decent wage,” the
Angau man had a ready reply. It was
impossible, he said, to take most native
races straight from the Stone Age to
civilisation. High wages did not consider
native psychology. The average Melan-
esian, unless bound by an indenture
system which makes him wait for most
of his pay until his time is up, works
only long enough to get some money.
Then he buys trade goods and store food
as long as the money lasts and spends
most of his time sitting around, smoking,
chewing betelnut and deteriorating
mentally and physically. The Chinese
made such splendid workmen because, no
matter how much they possess, they go
on working and earning. A little wealth
turned the N.G. native’s head and there-
after he was sullen, arrogant and cheeky.
I often thought of that talk during
the rest of my stay in N.G. Everything
I saw proved that the old hand was right.
The Army spent money like water and
poured materials into the country. Be-
ing above criticism in those days, they
could do things like shift the completely
unnecessary H.Q. of First Aust. Army to
Lae.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Postage and Food for Britain
Our P.M.G., Senator Cameron, will
not remove that ha’penny war-time sur-
charge on postage because the profit so
sacrificed would ‘*go into the pockets of
wealthy taxpayers.” Of course you and
I don’t miss the ha’penny ; the rich man
does!
However, I will give the P.M.G. his
ha’penny gladly if he will cease taxing
the generosity and kindliness of the Aus-
tralian people who are sending food
parcels to their hungry kinsfolk in
Britain by the hundred thousand. It is
not only the wealthy who are sending
them. Let the Senator go into any post
office at any hour and he will see many
more working men’s wives than bankers’
wives being mulcted of that atrocious
ss. lOd. on a 71b. parcel.
I suggest that he reduce the postage
to a flat rate of 2s. 6d., and issue a
special commemorative postage stamp of
tfiat value exclusively for food parcels.
It is something well worth commemorat-
ing, this spontaneous and mass response
of the Australian people to the needs of
their kin. — Hist (N.S.W.).
Navy Grog
“Macnell’s” article on liquor in the
Navy (B. 2/7/’47) does not reflect the
feelings of messmates I know. There are
few naval men of the seagoing forces
who do not perform responsible duties,
handling intricate machinery worth thou-
sands of pounds, and not one who does
not appreciate the necessity for absten-
tion at sea for the ship’s, and his, safety.
Why, then,. cannot he be extended the
responsibility of a few quiet drinks on
board in harbor?
Ships spend most time in Sydney, and
many, non-natives would prefer; to stay
on board rather than rush ashore into
the six-o’clock- melee. This would result
in several desirable things—pay-saving,
protection from the parasites usually
battening bn sailors* with money to spend
and prevention of that trouble into which
a sailor ashore with nothing to do usually
finds himself.
In my ship in the tropics the men are
sold three bottles of beer a week and
there is no trouble. They appreciate the
allowance, are aware of the threat of
complete suspension if there is trouble
and jealously guard their privilege. It is
inconceivable that the same allowance
every day in a capital city would impair
a ship’s efficiency. .Rather, through in-
ternal domestic contentment, it would in-
crease it. — Conda (R.A.N.).
Price-control ?
On the surface price-control has kept
Australian economy within reasonable
limits, and the average wage-earner is
assured time and again that the cost of
living has risen only 18 per cent, in this
line, 20 per cent, in that and 15 per cent,
in something else. True enough when
the article in question happens to be
nationally known and advertised, since
these are the- lines apparently used by
prices officials as a yardstick.
But take the case of a new manufac-
turer who decides to produce some
article. He can approach the Prices
Branch and ask for a retail price. If he
is shrewd, however, he first makes a
batch of the article in question and, in
the making, keeps a close and accurate
record of material costs and man-hours
involved. With" this information he ob-
tains from the Prices Branch a so-called
reasonable price. Subsequent improve-
ments in manufacturing technique allow
him to increase his profit margin with-
out increasing his price.
Further, since the manufacturer knows
that his selling price will be a function
of his costs, his purchases of material
are usually made, not on the keenest
market, but on a market which will en-
able him later on to buy better, even if
he has to buy in greater quantities. The
Prices Branch can have no argument with
him over this, since he can show that,
at this stage, he has to pay more to get
deliveries through normal channels.
Once his price has been established,
however, it is usually only a matter of
long-term planning and buying to ob-
tain his materials at substantially lower
prices.
In this way the retail price of an
article is established at a false level and
the margin of profit to the manufacturer
is greater than that supposedly allowed
by the Prices Branch. Many articles on
sale today are being sold at a price which
has been determined more or less hap-
hazardly. And a point which seems to
have been missed entirely is that the
fixed price is the maximum selling price,
beyond which, you cannot go, but below
which many manufacturers could and
should come. — Brisbaneite (Q.).


The first thought of many men on d
charge was to join the R.S.L. to §
badge. After settling down tocivih
life again they began to find t^ t
turned soldier’s badge was not an open
sesame” as far as jobs and housing were
concerned, and that, on the whole n
body gave a damn if you were a returnea
soldier or not. So the badge-wearers did
not renew their membership.
Others, roped into membership by en-
thusiastic sub-branch secretaries, were
persuaded to come along to sub-branch
meetings. In many cases they found
that discussion at meetings was mono-
polised by First A.I.F. men, that pro-
ceedings were very dry and monotonous,
that most of the agenda was concerned
with raising of funds for various pur-
poses and that, while any suggestions by
younger members were given a tolerant
hearing, they were quietly shelved. In
short, the old members were not going to
have their conservative and tried methods
of procedure upset. One meeting was
generally enough for the new members,
particularly if the meeting happened to
be held on Saturday afternoon, as is the
case in many country districts, and
clashed with sporting interest^.
The R.S.L. is a fine organisation, and
has done much for ex-servicemen. But
it was not created until a couple of years
after the end of the 1914-18 war. It
took that time for ex-servicemen to rea-
lise the value of an organisation to pro-
tect their interests. And they place high
value on their organisation because it is
something that they built themselves.
Men from the 1939-45 war, presented
with a ready-made League, have been
inclined to take it for granted. Those
who had intended to take an active part
in League affairs have quietly dropped
out since they have found that they are
expected to conform to the old-fashioned
standards of the League. Others have
discovered that League membership is,
regrettably, exploited by a number of “old
soldiers” of both wars who seem to think
that they are entitled to immediate and
substantial cash advances from harassed
sub-branch secretaries and other League
members.
There is no doubt that League mem-
bership will build up again—when im-
mediate war associations have lapsed and
last-war ex-servicemen are more estab-
lished and settled in civilian life. But it
would be foolish to regard the drop
in membership figures as a sign of
a decline in the power of the League.
Rather i§ it a healthy sign that badge-
wearers have been eliminated and that
future members will have more definite
intentions of taking an active part in
League affairs—if they are allowed to do
so.—C. R. (N.S.W.).
An Unusual Union
“This resolution urges improved effi-
ciency in management and greatly in-
creased production if the present
economic dangers are to be overcome.”
Credit it to the world’s largest trade-
union, the Transport and General
Workers, Britain.
Imagine such a resolution being carried
in Australia, where the one idea of unions
seems to be reduction rather than in-
crease of production. But the British
union goes even further, suggesting that
the British Government might re-intro-
duce some of its war-time measures, even
to the extent of a limited measure of
direction. And then, heaping more coals
of fire, it suggested that if a policy of
full employment was accepted and pur-
sued there was no reason why payment
by results should not be introduced.
What a wonderful scope such a union
would have here, where a benevolent
Government (or a bedevilled public) em-
ploys one out of every four adult workers.
—C. R. O. (Q.).
A Sweated Industry
Few of those who took on the delivery
and collection of census papers could
have suspected just what they were ex-
pected to do for their £l5.
Most of them were elderly retired
chaps and they began by delivering 300
to 500 forms, each of which had to be
numbered, key-lettered and have the
locality written on it in ink. And each
man was armed with a book in which
the name and address of every recipient
of papers must be written, with date of
delivery. When collecting, collection
date had also to be entered, and the col-
lectors found that they had to assist
about one in every six persons to com-
plete a form. About one in every ten
householders was out, necessitating a
third and sometimes fourth visit to the
house. Many forms were incorrectly
filled in.
Then, having collected all his forms—
if he was lucky —the now-weary worker
had to sit down at home, carefully check
each one, enter each householder’s name
and particulars in a large book, account
for every missing, lost or destroyed form,
and see that the totals of persons and
forms in his book agreed with the totals
on the forms and that his account of re-
turned forms agreed with the number
issued to him. That done, and having
run the last elusive householder to earth
and located and corrected the final wrong
entry, the collector staggered with his
bundle of papers to his enumerator and
stood by while they were checked again.
Just as a sort of pastime, if he ran
across any new building or one in course
of erection on his rounds, he was ex-
pected to jot down all its details on a
special form, and on another special
form he had to note particulars of all
“personal slips” collected from board-
ing-houses, pubs, hospitals, institutions,
etc. Finally, he was invited to estimate
the number of miles he had travelled.
And all for £l5, less tax. —S. H. C.
(N.S.W.).
Five Pamphlets
Let me acknowledge receipt of five
pamphlets in the same envelope.
The first, entitled “Yesterday, Today,
Tomorrow,” was produced by the De-
partment of Immigration and Secondary
Industries Division, Ministry of Post-
war Reconstruction, and tells in six
pages of “the remarkable growth of Aus-
tralia’s Secondary Industries. She has
the jobs, wants pe0p1e....” The narra-
tive reaches the following naive conclu-
sion: “Tomorrow —in the next twenty
years—we want people—many, many
more people. If we get those people
Australia can be a big nation.”
(Authorised by the Hon, John J. Ded-
man and the Hon. Arthur A. Calwell.)
Pamphlet No. 2, “Australians of To-
"Ha! ha! Mrs. Guffoops. An old romance, eh?”
morrow,” also six pages, “issued under
the direction and by the authority of
the Minister for Immigration and In-
formation, the Hon. Arthur A. Calwell,”
states that a survey in late 1946 “showed
that 46,000 breadwinners could easily
be absorbed during 1947 into industry,
commerce and the professions—and that
means, say, 120,000 when wives and
children are included.” It further an-
nounces that “British migration will be-
gin on a big scale this year.” Just when
this will happen is not confided, but the
reader is assured:
Detailed plans have been worked out for
the arrival in 1947 of many thousands of
men and women settling in Australia under
the British free and assisted passages
schemes and travelling by specially char-
tered migrant ships or by ordinary shipping
services.
The reference to British immigrants is
reassuring in view of the numbers of
non-British migrants that have reached
our shores this year, but it is puzzling
to read of priorities for “those who will
not be contenders for houses.” Presum-
ably these luckless newcomers are
bringing their own tents or sleeping-
bags.
Pamphlet No. 3, headed “This —or
Extinction,” is merely a reprint of an
article on immigration from a Westralian
paper (with a foreword by the Hon.
Afthur A. Calwell), and amounts to a
plea for welcoming foreign as well as
British migrants.
Pamphlet No. 4 is a 16-page
“Souvenir Guide” to the Australian sec-
tion of the Empire Exhibition held in
Sydney this year. An expensive little
production got up with colored maps,
graphs and illustrations, it has a fore-
word by the Rt. Hon. J. B. Chifley
concluding with the optimistic forecast:
We are beginning another era of develop-
ment, an era in which our expanded
industrial structure and a population in-
creased by planned immigration will
accelerate our progress to national great-
ness.
The fifth pamphlet, “Australia in
Facts and Figures, No. 15” (issued by
the Department of Information), is
crammed with figures, photos of mem-
bers of the Federal Parliament, photos
of big dams, shipyards and goodness
knows what else. Like the rest of the
“literature,” it wasn’t asked for, isn’t
wanted and its production and free dis-
tribution are a wilful waste of some of
the money I’ve earned and had taken
from me by a muddling, meddlesome
Government. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Air-freighting
That reference to the enterprising
Englishman who is going to run a fleet
of Halifax bombers on a freight-tramping
service (B. 4/6/’47) was so interesting
that I got out the slide rule and did some
figuring. His quoted rate of Is. sd. per
ton-mile has little value, as it only covers
the running of a plane and allows
nothing for the cost of providing air-
fields and the like, but as the taxpayer
seems quite happy to cover that little lot
I’ll use his figures. I found that on the
load of dripping he carried to the U.K.
the freight would work out at over £BOO
a ton —about seven bob a pound—and
I can’t help wondering just how much of
our production could use such a service
under normal conditions.
. Furthermore, the rate is three to four
times as costly as road transport, 10 times
more than an Australian State railway
and some 35 times as much as an Ameri-
can freight train. Comparison with an
ordinary tramp steamer is difficult be-
cause figures are not available, but using
a purely empirical rate of £1 a mile —
certainly too high—the ratio is something
over 600 to one.
The trouble with matters like this is
that the layman will insist on trying to
convert war-time necessity into peace-
time virtue. The aeroplane at the moment
is on top of the
fashion with all the
glamor of tremend-
ous and w e 11-
publicised war ser-
vice behind it and,
to the layman,
there’s no reason
why what was done
then cannot be done
now. There’s no
reason at all except
plain economics.
Air-freighting i s
the most expensive
method of carrying
things. It has one
solitary virtue,
speed, but in a
world where the bulk
of the carrying is
done at about 10
knots, speed has only
a limited value. I
don’t suggest that
the aeroplane is use-
less, but as a "means
of transport it is
relatively unimport-
ant
Even in the U.S.A., where it has every-
thing in its favor, it only managed m the
last year to reach a grand total of one-
tenth of one per cent, of the tonnage
handled. How far it will grow and how
long it will go on depends entirely on
the willingness of the taxpayer in general
to keep on providing the necessary facili-
ties. If all subsidies, direct and indirect,
were removed, most of the business would
vanish overnight. A cut of 10 per cent, in
the basic cost of our bulk carriers would
have far more effect on the national
economy than all the planes built or pro-
jected.—'Tidapa (Singapore).
“They Got ’Em”
On July 25, 1945, the Japs attempted
their last orthodox attack on the British
Fleet. Radar fighter direction in the
R.N. had reached a high standard of
efficiency, strikingly demonstrated in this,
the last British interception of the war.
The B.P.F. Fast Carrier Group was
operating south of Honshu. About dusk
two approaching enemy forces were
screened on the fleet’s radar sets.
All day-fighters were being landed on
after a busy day, and the only aircraft
available in the whole £orce to inter-
cept were two Hellcats from Formid-
able. These were radared on an inter-
cepting climb and all ships prepared to
defend themselves with their guns. By
now it was almost dark, but with
omniscient exactitude the fighter direc-
tion officers watching their screens be-
low in Formidable vectored both Hell-
cats towards the Japs,
The following radio-telephone conver-
sation ensued: “51 [Hellcat] from Lucky
[Formidable]. Pronto [turn quickly]
starboard. You’re right on them.”
“Fifty-one to 52 [other Hellcat]. There
they are —four of them —look like Cor-
sairs.” “Fifty-one. Yes, I see them —
they’ve got torpedoes—let’s get ’em.”
They “got ’em” all right, shooting
three down and tailing the last towards
Japan. The other force also cleared out.
Then the two Hellcats, who were largely
responsible for thwarting what must have
been a planned dusk torpedo attack,
landed on undamaged in the then com-
plete darkness.— Macnell (R.A.N.).
Root of the Matter
Why such lively opposition to the sug-
gested record of everyone’s finger-prints?
Such a record is no more a restriction of
personal liberty than the general registra-
tion of births. It would act as a far-
reaching protection against crime and,
heaven knows, we need all we can get in
that direction. —G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Union officials never tire of denying
their membership of the Communist
party. True, they are not members, but
they are something more sinister —sym-
pathisers, and as such they get a hearing
from many who would give a Communist
short-shift. “You can do better work
out of the party than in it,” is a well-
known dictum. —A. D. (S.A.).
I was very pleased when one of our
Sunday papers began a scripture serial in
“colored-story” form. I asked my class
at school who was reading it, and only
three put up their hands —the daughter
of a clergyman, the headmaster’s
son and the son of a lay-preacher. The
rest “didn’t think it was exciting enough,”
“thought it was cissy,” “didn’t like it be-
cause there were no murders in it,” or
didn’t know anything about it because
Dad wouldn’t bother reading it to him. —
Shirley (N.S.W.).
Bathurst Library’s 800 subscribers
from a population of 15,000 (B.
11/6/ ’47) may be a poor advertisement
for that city’s culture, but Sydney is
worse. The Sydney Municipal Library
jwas described by a visiting Carnegie
Trust official as the best lending library
available to the general public in N. S,
Wales, It is free and membership is
easily obtained. Yet, though consider-
ably more than 1,000,000 people live in
Sydney and suburbs, a member of the
library staff tells me that enrolment is
only around the 25,000 mark. — Den
(N.S.W.).
C-grade malting barley (rejected here
for malting purposes) is 1 being sold to
Britain at 13s Bd. a bushel, though A
grade is sold in Australia at 6s. Id.
Good for the barley-grower? The chair-
man of the S.A. Barley Board says the
grower should receive 6s. a bushel, so,
since the 13s, Bd. is f.o.b. Australian
ports, it would be nice to know where
the other 7s. 7d. goes. But my chief
concern is for poor old Britain —why
should she pay more than double for
admittedly inferior grain? —F. H. W.
(S.A.).
During a wait for a friend at the
T.-A.A. terminal in Melbourne a call
came for passengers for Sydney, and
two men entered the 25-30 seat bus for
Essendon. Next a call for Hobart, and
three women entered another bus. Four
people joined another bus' after a call
for Adelaide. My friend arrived
from Perth in a plane with a seating
capacity for 44, but with only 14 pas-
sengers. It was scheduled to leave Perth
at 10 p.m., but did not get away until
3 a.m. I shall be interested in the
Auditor-General’s report. —L.C. (Vic.).
A favorite claim of the Socialist agi-
tator is that the State is a more generous
and considerate employer than private
industry. Two Parramatta representa-
tives in the Australian Rugby Union
team think differently. The private em-
ployer of one will pay his full salary
while the team is absent —at least nine
months. His mate had to resign from
the Munitions Department to make the
trip.— Tom (N.S.W.).
A new type of erosion is attacking
our national life —the erosion of our
rights and freedom and income. What is
that Canberra pay-rise other than
erosion of our wages? What else are
things like Forde’s appointment, Makin’s
job and a thousand others than a
blatant erosion of our resources? Land
erosion is an old thing, but this new
horror is a threat which requires im-
mediate attention. — Turnip (Q.).
Mr. Calwell’s jaunt to Europe seems
to have borne little fruit. The official ex-
planation is that the Scandinavian coun-
tries have their own labor shortage, but
that does not account for the fact that
thousands of Norwegians and Swedes
are on the quota for entry in the U.S.A.
—R.A. (N.S.W.).
An officer in the permanent Australian
forces tells me that he, with others, has
been asked if he is prepared to accept
a reduction in rank, meaning a reduction
in pay? Many of these officers have
seen considerable active service, and it
is a rotten thing to ask them to take
lower wages at a time when living costs
are continually rising, and everyone else
is plugging for higher pay.— Citizen (Q.).


No. 12 of a Series of SIGNS TO REMEMBER
6£ CAREFUL OF THE
KIDDIES AT THE
-
—L
SCHOOL
SCHOOL
m >
CROSSING.:
sup.
is
rtPI 5
Al
£3O?
qN s
cAii
1
Cl 2/2647
%
mm.
'sM
DRW
A
ASK
FOR
ALWAYI
COR
Published in the interests of. Safer Motoring by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
HEED ALL ROAD SIGNS—
MAKE TRAFFIC WAYS SAFER FOR YOURSELF AND OTHERS i
British Petrol
there’s no better QUAIitY
CURVES
*
%
v
f
2^
//
V.
Vf
1
(A
&
,-p
NARROW
BRIDS!
\Si.l
\\
/'j
: j2*Z
&
' ,l'
y /
