

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 68—No. 3490
Wednesday, January 1, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
SCARBOROUGH.
/'VNE of the most famous of England’s seaside holiday resorts,
Scarborough was the Saxon Skardebruge. A Cistercian house
was founded here in 1198, and its Norman castle on the Scaur
A°Fea?ut o a £
is its still relatively well-preserved and stately square tower, or
keep, its walls twelve feet thick. In the castle yard are the
interesting ruins of an ancient chapel, and near by is the famous
Lady’s Well. During the seventeenth century Scarborough’s
mineral springs became known, and soon the port became a
popular resort. The town caters for visitors with a number of
goqd hotels, there are three piers, a promenade and marine drive,
theatres and the Spa with both chalybeate and saline springs. The
season at Scarborough extends from May to October. During
these months the fashionable South Cliff, with its walks and
terraces, is the rendezvous of gay and cheerful throngs from all
parts of the kingdom.


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
: we send, without obligation, your New Free
!■■■: t, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
odrc sed in the Sydney “Bulletin/’
r- ame
’lg A (.dress
;,n. 24.’ AGE
The Red Page
BRANGWYN.
Like a form of art interestingly dis-
cussed in it—all the discussion in it is
interesting, and it’s all discussion—
William de Belleroche’s Brangwyn Talks
(Chapman and Hall; Angus and Robert-
son) is pure impressionist.
“An impression is a thing of the
moment. You sit down to paint it....but
in five minutes it’s all gone and another
impression has taken its place.” He takes
a sip from his glass. “That’s the curse of
painting out of doors. A flash of cloud
has gone in the fraction of a second!
Monet doesn’t give you a first impression.
It’s all false —an arrangement of a thou-
sand and one different impressions.”
“Well, what is your idea of an
Impressionist then?”
“The fellow who goes to nature and gets
one impression... .a movement of the sea,
a bunch of flowers, a fleeting cloud, a
woman with the sun reflecting off a blue
skirt. Such a fellow makes a few rapid
strokes in his sketch-book, indicates the
colors, and returns to the studio to knock
up a picture of what he has recorded in
his mind, using the notes he has made in
his sketch-book. That, in my opinion, is
as near as possible a first impression. You
see color one .moment when studying from
nature and by the time you’ve mixed every-
thing on your palette you see something
quite different. Things change quickly.”
“So, in a sense, the Old Masters were
nearer to Impressionism, Mr. Brangwyn?”
“Yes. Take Turner. He gives you the
suggestion of a storm or a sunset —an
impression of something ”
Mr. Belleroche’s biographical impres-
sion is of a sunset; a splendid one;
magnificent in its quietness of spirit; a
generous sunset, giving all that it has
with an openhandedness that asks no-
thing for, itself except the joy of being
able to give joy to others.
That is Brangwyn. So the bearded
grahd old man comes out in these con-
versations with young Belleroche in
the studios, the garden and elsewhere
about Jointure, Brangwyn’s house at
Ditchling, Sussex ; the house a part of the
property given to Anne of Cleves by
Henry VIII. Earlier Belleroche’s father
and Brangwyn were artist friends ; on
this pretext Belleroche first calls at
Jointure ; from then on their conversa-
tions revolve round the foundation of a
Brangwyn Museum in Bruges, the artist’s
birthplace. Each chapter is a dialogue ;
Brangwyn, of course, doing the bulk of
the talking; Belleroche throwing in a
remark here and there to keep the talk
going, and in the writing adding the few
touches needed to fix the setting.
It is fascinating reading ; sparkling and
humorous; and in presenting a bio-
graphical impression unusually effective.
The book is very freely, and very amus-
ingly, illustrated—a frontispiece self-
portrait of Brangwyn, with old hat on and
pipe ; dozens of the sketches with which
Brangwyn decorates his letters (as Hugh
McCrae does), and a fine lot of natural
photographs which fix the appearance of
the man. The rest comes out in his own
words; most engaging dialogue, mainly
on art and religion, or about Belleroche’s
visits to Bruges in connection with the
projected Brangwyn Museum (Belle-
roche’s idea), and also the writer’s ex-
periences among the old monks in a
monastery there, fo which monastery
Brangwyn makes one of his generous
gifts of his works.
For the Brangwyn Museum the artist
presents 400 of his works; his over-
flowing generosity is the main note in his
character. He is always giving; his
praise to great artists, his own works
almost to anybody he feels will like them.
His philosophy is, briefly, to be giving
joy to others, and his own hearty joy
in their joy is one of the chief things that
make him that rare enough sort of figure
in biography, one whom it is impossible
not to like —with really friendly feelings.
The author’s knowing him seems a privi-
lege to be envied.
No doubt Brangwyn was all through
his life this generous fellow Belleroche
presents; he has nature’s own natural
extravagance of generosity. Yet it may
have been curiously developed and
added to in him. The present reader
doesn’t know the exact story, but roughly
it seems fo be that Brangwyn did a series
of murals for the House of Lords and
they were turned down. This, as Belle-
roche records, was regarded with astonish-
ment on the Continent, where it was put
down to something like English dullness
of appreciation in the face of great art,
and inability to appreciate any art&t
until he was safely dead. Die this rejec-
tion influence Brangwyn’s generosity?
He is so overjoyed at appreciation that lie
gives at a sign of it.
All the dialogue is so full of the im-
pression of Brangwyn that, though a fe v
sentences give a great deal, a whole
chapter needs to be read to get depth
of effect, and the whole boo . there’s
not nearly- enough of it —to get that
depth properly. Another short extract
may at least serve to convey an idea of
it; they are in the midst of discussing
the nude in art:
“ The great thing in life is not what
you do, but what you do to others.
There’s a saying by two Indian philoso-
phers which g0e5....” He tries to
remember. “Oh, yes. What you throw
into the world may be something that’ll
do great harm. A good action you never
know when it will cease doing good. It’s in
the air, continually doing good, and this
applies likewise in the opposite direction
for a bad action.” He shakes his head;
“And the trouble today is that no one puts
the brake on a bad action and now look
at the result? What is the world coming
to, I ask you,?”
“But it seems that most of the nude
paintings you see today are nothing more
than crude distortions of nature. Things
which are not beautiful to look at.”
“Beautiful to look at! Ha! Ha! These
works are nothing more than an insult to
the Almighty! They are an insult to man’s
intelligence! I don’t believe that in any
period of the history of art has beauty
been so outrageously degraded!”
“There are more paintings of the nude
today than of anything else.”
“Well, that just shows you! These
paintings are not done to express beauty.
If a fellow can show you a freakish
woman with limbs like a rhinoceros he
feels he’s accomplished something in the
world of art. Or you get another chap
making a fat wench climb a ladder with-
out any clothes on. He looks at her and
says ‘A fine thing’ and away he goes. Now
when I paint I look at a nude as I would
a pile of fruit.”
“That’s the outlook Rubens must have
had.”
“Yes, Rubens looked at the fat sensual
nude as a rich mass of form and color —
part of the whole composition. There’s
nothing vulgar in his paintings despite what
many people in England say. In art there
must be some convention, some ideal.”
“Isn’t there too much talk about the
canons of art? Surely no two people see a
thing in the same manner?”
“That’s true. The real enjoyment of life
is to be secret. If you paint a landscape
try to capture it for your own enjoyment
as you would a fine dinner.”
Another typical passage, concerning a
pig:
“ It reminds me of my old pig Joey.
I was very friendly with old Joey, and,
strange to say, old Joey was very fond of
me. We used to hold little conversations
together when I went to make sketches of
him. Then came the fatal day when old
Joey had to be turned into sausages. Oh,
it was a painful business saying good-bye
to him. I walked down to the pig-sty and
was determined not to show any sort of
feeling that things couldn’t go on as they
were. Do you know? old Joey knew
the end was near. He was all agitated and
started grunting more than usual. Oh, it
nearly broke my heart. I bent over the
fence and took a last look at him; and as
I was leaving, said: ‘Good-bye, Joey
You look fine!....’ The next morning a
fellow came to put an end to his worries.”
“I’ve seen him in many of your
paintings. Isn’t he in the ‘Prodigal Son’?”
“Yes, that was Joey. Oh, I’ve painted
him scores of times,” he replies, shaking
his head and with a note of sadness in his
voice. ■
“And what about the picture of two
pigs’ heads next to a large copper bowl?”
“No, that wasn’t him.”
“The heads are grinning at you.”
“Yes, it’s a funny thing. Pigs are always
smiling at you, even when they’ve had
their heads cut off, what?”
Perhaps this is the best recipe, after all,
for biography ; as Boswell is always at
his best when presenting Johnson in
dialogue. It means a maximum of the
leading character, and a minimum of the
writer, which should surely be the object
of biography, provided the leading char-
acter is worth it. Brangwyn certainly is
worth it. He is a solid figure ; like a
piece of sculpture in Harris tweeds ; and
very likeable. With such a lot of bio-
graphy it’s a matter of the leading figure
not being worth knowing, or else the
writer fails in making him so, or the
writer forces himself in between the reader
and the leading character. Belleroche
presents a sunny distillation of the fine
character of Brangwyn.
Poetry and Polysyllables .
When James McAuley, in Under
Aldebaran (Melbourne University Press),
greets the dawn with the ejaculation
• O clear day, synedoche of time,
one cannot but recall the wisdom of
George Gascoigne: “Eschew straunge
words or obsoleta and inusitata ; the most
auncient English words are of one sill-
able, so that the more monosyllables that
you use the truer Englishman you shall
seeme and the lesse you shall smell of
the Inkhorne.”
Mr. McAuley writes:
* The deuteronomy of daily life,
and;
The centre gives a perfect azimuth;
and:
The earth’s diluvian episode;
and although it could not be laid down
as a binding rule that even such a word
as Trinitrotoluene” would be inadmiss-
ible in poetry, the use of too many poly-
syllables does bring the taint of the ink-
horn.
Especially when, as in these verses,
there is further evidence of reliance upon
iarship rather thap inspiration. Mr.
■ uley has done a good deal of un-
co .-cious borrowing from other poets.
He writes:
The river gliding smoothly as my will,
and there springs to mind Wordsworth’s
line:
The river glideth at his own sweet will.
T, S. Eliot is drawn upon copiously,
not only in the quotation of rhymed
mottoes to introduce a poem, but in lines
such as;—
Nietzsche respected the great god Plumb
That lays his pipes in a baby’s turn.
Beneath our logic’s pure avowals
He heard the murmur of the bowels;
which must be compared with Eliot’s: —•
Webster was much possessed by death
And saw the skull beneath the skin;
And breastless creatures under ground
Leaned backward with a lipless grin.
There is also in Under Aldebaran
I wont mention what. So I called out Please,
There’s a lady coming. Shem, you answer the
door;
and among Eliot’s poetry:
I didn’t mince my words, I said to her myself,
Hurry up please its time
Now Albert’s coming back, make yourself a
bit smart.
Yet another influence, it appears, is
the satire of A. D. Hope. Whether or
not Mr. Hope wrote “Return from the
Freudian Isles” and “Australia” —verses
that have appeared in the Australian
Poetry anthologies—before Mr. McAuley
wrote “%he Cavern” and “The True Dis-
covery of Australia” is not known, but
Mr. Hope’s satire is certainly the stronger
and the more accomplished of the two,
and the similarity is clear, Mr. Mc-
Auley ; ,
Fungus of sprouting flesh upon the walls
Uttering foul odors from its wrinkled lips;
and Mr. Hope:
the soft wet mottled granite of the lung
bulge and collapse, the liver worn askew.
Mr. McAuley;
Meanwhile, as you’d expect, their arts are poor
As if the dust had leaked into their brains
And made a kind of dry-rot at the core;
Mentally they’re still in Pliocene,
A flat terrain impermeably dense;
And will be so, until volcanic mind
Arches its back at brute indifference.
And Mr. Hope:
Without songs, architecture, history:
The emotions and superstitions of younger
lands.
Her rivers of water drawn among inland, sands,
The rivet of her immense stupidity
Floods her monotonous tribes from Cairns to
Perth
In them at last the ultimate men arrive
Whose boast is not: “we live” but “we
survive” —
A type who will inhabit the dying earth.
Although, in the present commentator’s
opinion, the poetry of T. S. Eliot (who
could hardly complain at Mr. McAuley’s
borrowings) has given sanction to far too
much near-plagiarism in contemporary
versifying, one should not make too much
of the fault. “Echoes” are inevitable in
the work of any well-read man; and
poets who use a living idiom and rhythm
are bound to show certain similarities.
The important question is, how much is
left when you subtract the borrowings?
Is there, in spite of phrases or stylisms
picked up here and there, an original
talent at work?
Not a great deal of Under Aldebaran
is left when the derivative poems are dis-
missed. What does remain is a talent
curiously like Bernard O’Dowd’s: ana-
lytical, epigrammatic, didactic, academic.
In McAuley, as in O’Dowd, there is
sometimes a flash of genuine wit, some-
times a mere manhandling of polysyl-
lables, circumlocution masquerading as
epigram. There is the use of the
mechanical quatrain form as a vehicle
for analysis and satire; and there is* a
general impression “Celebration of
Love” might well be compared with
O’Dowd’s somewhat heavier “Alma
Venus” ; and both contrasted with any
love lyric of Davies or McCrae —that the
mind is at work rather than the heart or
the spirit. It may be guessed that the re-
semblance to O’Dowd is coincidental,
both writers deriving ultimately from
Pope, whose verses Matthew Arnold des-
cribed as “a kind of prose.”
This is a definition that cannot fully
be applied to Under Aldebaran. The
simpler verses, “Terra Australis” and
“Revenant,” have genuinely poetic
quality, and in “The Blue Horses” and
the conclusion of “Chorale” the troubles
of the time arouse the writer to a fine
music of anguish:
O seraph in the soul, who singing climb
The order of creation as a stair,
And hold a silver lamp above the time
And places of our deepening despair:
When the delirium swirls within the gyre,
And comets die, and iron voices wake.
Be witness to the sun"; and mounting higher
Hold the lamp steady, though creation shake.
Nor, of course, does the definition deny
Pope’s versification merit in its own field.
If the bulk of what is not derivative in
Under Aldebaran is not quite poetry, the
epigrams are, nevertheless, both sting-
ing and amusing, and the thought is often
eloquently expressed.
Ogilvie Rides Again .
The outstanding poem of Will Ogilvie’s
From Sunset to Dawn (Angus and
Robertson) is the opening “Sunset,” which
runs in part: —
Long since in far Australia’s outer west
I rode my horse upon a treeless plain;
All day on pastures by the drought oppressed
Had fallen ceaselessly the welcome rain;
And on the open claypan where I rode
Wide shallow pools had gathered fetlock-deep
Through which my horse his homeward pathway
trod,
His reins loose-held, his rider half-asleep.
The rain had ceased and cool came up the eve,
The red sun dropped in splendor to the west
One crimson flush upon the sky to leave
As he slid slowly o’er the sandhill’s crest.
And suddenly the plain was all aflood
With ruddy pool on pool, and earth and sky
Were in that wondrous moment bathed in blood
And splashed in blood strode on my horse
and I.
Red on my bridle-bit the glory glowed,
Red shone the splendor on my stirrup bars
As shoulder-deep through rose-red flame we
rode
Into the dark where pale peeped out the stars.
Perhaps the sunset is a test for poets
as it is for painters. It is never trite
to watch —the most magnificent spectacle
that is offered to man on the earth. Yet
it is nearly always trite to read about.
The ineffably awful poets and painters
rush to make a hash of it; the moderately
talented artist shrugs it away as “un-
paintable” and leaves it to Turner.
Ogilvie as a poet may not be in the class
of Turner as a painter; but there was —
still is—in him, as in “Banjo” Paterson,
something of Turner’s grandeur; a
spaciousness. The balladists are not little
men.
From Sunset to Dawn would have been
improved for an Australian audience by
the inclusion of the handful of ballads
Ogilvie has written for The Bulletin
over the past couple of years, for, after
the splendid opening piece, there’s very
little about Australia in the book: one
poem in praise of Australian troops, a
couple on the Pacific war, a brief refer-
ence in the ringing “Montgomery’s Men,”
a few lines in the concluding “Dawn.”
There is, for that matter, little enough
about Scotland ; where, at the unco guid
address of Selkirk, Kirklea, Will Ogilvie
now abides; a stalwart of 77. Most of
the verses were written as a series for a
London newspaper and are in praise of
the valor of the various British fighting
services: what is known as “occasional”
poetry. Although there is a gallant
attempt to portray Mr. Churchill as a
coach-driver, the book is by no means
typical Ogilvie ; and the less so in that,
writing more or less on generalised
themes, he has not fulfilled the balladist’s
special function of immortalising parti-
cular incidents —some man and what he
did. “Montgomery’s Men” comes the
nearest to true balladry: —
Hear the tale of those hard-bitten fighters
And honor the work of their hands,
Those daredevil smashers and smiters,
Those lords of the Libyan sands.
When Rommel rolled backward our forces
With his tanks that were twenty to ten,
In the dunes and the dry watercourses
They held him—Montgomery’s men.
Among the Australian balladists Ogilvie
was always outstanding in technique—
clarity, melody, the mastery of rhythm
and rhyme. And this, certainly, along
with his vigor and his manliness, remains
to him. Regarded as “occasional” poetry
the book is captivating in its finished
craftsmanship. If the readers of the
London “Sunday Graphic” wanted a
rhymer to hearten them through the dark
days of the war, to hymn the praises of
the merchant marine, the R.A.F., the
Home Guard, to record the defence of
Stalingrad, the bombing of London and
the bombing of Berlin, the triumphs in
the desert, they could not have been
better served. It is craftsmanship of a
high order that makes a serious, dignified,
even lofty poem about land girls one
week ; then castigates a person named
Hitler; then pleads, as from nation to
nation, with the reluctant Government
of Ireland and then, in truly noble lines,
pays tribute to President Roosevelt.
Reviewed Briefly .
This Other Eden: Novel by Catherine
Gaskin (Collins). Well-constructed, read-
able but naive and unreal. Dealing with
England and the U.S. in the war years, it’s
a considerable feat of imagination for
an Australian girl of 16 ; but one would
need to see what she can write about
her own backyard before making
prophecies.
Get Away Old Man: A play by
William Saroyan (Faber).
Mr. Saroyan
Continues to be annoyan.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
PYROX
ulti-Tap
HEATER
i
n
nstantane
GAS
▼
m
I
mm
■
m
ma
.
m 51;
MODEL No. NA32Z
',s the most suitable
size for the
average family.
i_L Li_L I—i—
\ r
v TSbuSS3I
\r
LLlllU-CU
a
LA_
O
£
i n
\Aj
rrr
rrr
rrn
Pk
PC
Fcrrr
-r
r>
w i i
-r.
rrr t^r-
m
rn
•4
u
■R?
Guarantees an Immediate, continuous
|UMB| 2MB MM MB BM H B B
supply of REALLY not water
throughout your home
PYROX heaters are made from highest grade materials by skilled Australian artisans
trained in precision workmanship. To find ALL the features in one water
heater may sound too good to be true, but they are definitely guaranteed to be
incorporated in the PYROX Heater. The PYROX is modern and stream-lined in
appearance for it is totally enclosed in a beautiful vitreous enamel casing, which
can be easily kept clean. The price of the PYROX Heater is JS23/15/T
★ Note these features . . •
Low Gas Consumption because of high
thermal efficiency.
No Storage, therefore no heat losses
through keeping water hot when not
required.
No Escape of Unburnt Gas from Mam
Burner.
No Possible Danger From Careless-
ness, Ignorance or Confusion, because
wrong manipulation is impossible.
No Condensation.
Gradual and Gentle Lighting of Burner
without popping.
No Damage to Heater in Case of
Increased Gas Pressure or Failure
of Water Supply.
Draught Diverter Incorporated.
Because of its Attractive Vitreous
Enamel Casing, the Pyrox can b©
easily kept clean.
• Baths and Stoves —
Ground Floor, Goulburh Street.
'Phone M 2401, Ext. 204, and ask
for further particulars of the
"PYROX"
/


FOR A PURPOSE-
d
fd
SAVE for the medical ex-
penses which, sooner or
later, come to every family.
It is a great consolation in
those trying times to be able
to afford the necessary hursingand convalescent expenses.
f
df
SAVE for costs of schooling
and higher education which
may make ail the difference
tothe futureofyour children.
Rewards are higher for
workers. You will be happy In saving
necessary training.
tyrnffilme
m
SAVE while you plan your
future home. Then save for
those little improvements
which go to build up the
comfort and contentment of
In a
save while
d
fd
SAVE for your holidays—'
that break in the routine of
the year when you throw off
dull care and make that trip
of your dreams which will
give you fresh joy in living.
OUR PURPOSE
Our Purpose is to help you In every way
possible to make these savings. Consult our
nearest Branch or Agency and start that
Purpose Savings Account at once.
COM MONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
THERE’S A BRANCH OR AGENCY IN YOUR DISTRICT
C.S.B. 17-82
m
m
m
e
/ ]imr a
/
'Whiskies*
By the time he reaches for his hat to go home, the normal responsible
man has had many hours of close concentration and wants to relax
the tension a little b.efore eating. Doctors commend this, insisting that
calm nerves are essentia! for good digestion.
To relax tension, successful men in all walks of life favour taking a
little whisky before the evening meal.
Whisky suits them particularly well because, for one thing, the excep-
tional purity of well matured whisky aids digestion, and, for another,
because the quantity needed is relatively small.
*lhe secret is moderation, plus insistence on sound quality and adequate
maturity. The best Australian brandy of whisky are excellent in
quality and purity, and have been aged for the exceptional period of
over 5 years.
Inserted on Behalf of the Brands of The United Distillers Pty. Ltd.,
The Distillers Corporation Pty. Ltd., and Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd. W. 13/24
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
the magic alphabet
The Lessons of which are specially compiled
for HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BBYEN HO ABE,
M-B.LM.Sc. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’U Jump onl
of Bed in the Morning Full of Van.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn t
digest You suffer from wind. Yougetcon*
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel up and up. Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pill#
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3 /- & 1/3.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy The Bulletin Reciter, Where the Dead
Men Lie, by Barcroft Boake, and Fair Girls and
Gr. Horses, by Will Ogilvie.—39lB.
To buy Stroke Play in Tennis; also wanted,
% <rds of verse “Dressing and Undressing the
8ed.”—3919.
Information Sought.
Who was Fandino ?
A Spanish official in South America who was
accused of having cut off the ear of Captain
Jenkins, the master of a British ship, about
1731. Jenkips produced his ear in a bottle
before the House of Commons, and Walpole,
unable to withstand tire public clamor, after
futile negotiations with Spain, declared war in
1739—the “War of Jenkins’s Ear.” Fandino
himself was captured 11 years later by an
English frigate.
* Jfs * *
What are the prevailing winds in Bass Strait
during the four seasons of the year?
Summer (December to February): Very
variable. Easterlies, southerlies and westerlies
are about equally frequent in Western Strait;
north-easterlies, westerlies and south-westerlies
about equally frequent in Eastern Strait, both
in morning and afternoon. In the afternoon
sea breezes are very prominent towards Port
Phillip and near Launceston. Autumn and
winter (March to August): Chiefly north-west
to west. Spring (September to November):
Chiefly north-west to south-west.
* * * *
Are oyster-shells, seaweed and fish scraps
helpful in the flower garden as fertilisers ?
Seaweed is an excellent fertiliser, especially
for sandy soils. Spread it out in the sun for
a few weeks to evaporate the salt, then dig it
well through the soil. In heavy soils it is best
to chop the seaweed into small pieces before
using. Oyster-shells contain a great deal of
lime, and should be- burnt and then crushed.
Where fish residue (heads, bones, etc.) is plenti-
ful, it will help considerably if placed around
strong-growing plants such as dahlias and chry-
santhemums.
* * $
Is there another version of the stanza from
Richard Gifford’s poem “Contemplation” which
reads
Verse sweetens toil, however rude the sound;
She feels no biting pang the while she sings;
Nor, as she turns the giddy wheel around,
Resolves the vicissitudes of things.
Samuel Johnson altered the second line to:
“All at her work the village maiden sings”;
and in the third line substituted “while” for “as.”
* * * *
Did Mozart ever meet Beethoven; if so, what
did he think of him ?
Yes, Beethoven called on Mozart at Salzburg
in 1787, four years before the latter’s death.
Mozart was then in the zenith of his powers;
Beethoven “a sullen-faced youth of 17 with a
thick Rhenish accent.” The visitor seems to
have had a rather cool reception at the outset,
but Mozart invited him to show what he could
do with a pianoforte and “soon pricked up
his ears.” When Beethoven had gone has host
said to some friends who had listened' in an-
other room, “Watch that young man. He will
make a noise in the world before long.”
What was the origin of the phrase “As the
Governor of North Carolina said to the Gover-
nor of South Carolina.^..'”?
It is said to have originated during a con-
ference between the two Governors relating to
a dispute about boundaries and other inter-
state matters. The undue prolongation of the
discussion and the alleged verbosity of the
Governor of South Carolina induced the Gover-
nor of the former State to issue his classic
invitation “It’s a long time between drinks.
'** * *
Does any cricket team hold the distinction
of having put on all players to bowl in a Test
match? Some particulars of the match.
At Kennington Oval on August 11, 12 ana
13, 1884, England gave 11 players a turn with
the ball to try to stop the run-getting or
the Australians after P. S. McDonnell (103),
W. L. Murdoch (211) and H. J. H. Scott
(102) had belted it badly. Wicketkeeper A.
Lyttleton, tried as a last resource and bowling
“lobs,” took 4 for 19 in 12 overs; the other iu
trundlers sent 299 overs for 515 runs and six
wickets. Australia scored 551, England 346 ana
2 for 85, the match being drawn. Murdoch s
211 was the highest Test innings to that date.
* * * *
How to eradicate cockroaches?
There are two species which frequent kitchens,
bakehouses, cellars, etc., the American cock-
roach, which is reddish brown and measures
about llin. in length, and the German cock-
roach, which is dark yellow to dark brown,
and is about fin. long. Ten p.c. D.D.T. lightly /
dusted into cracks, crevices and haunts of the
pests or a "5 p.c. D.D.T.-kerosene solution
applied with a paint brush or spray will give
control. A thorough application, will give pro-
tection for. about three months, after which
a retreatment is necessary. The American type
is more susceptible to this method than the
German variety. Boracic acid or sodium
fluoride alone or mixed with an equal quantity
of flour or powdered starch blown into the
cockroaches’ haunts will also result in control.
Care should be taken to keep all these insec-
ticides away from foodstuffs, which should be
stored in receptacles having tightly-fitted fids
or doors. Thorough cleanliness will do much
to prevent cockroaches becoming established.
Any cracks, holes in walls or floors which
harbor the vermin should be * filled in with
cement or suitable material.
* * * *
Biographical details of Robert Johnson, the
painter ?
Born Sept., 1890, in Auckland, M.L., and
served in that country’s forces during World
War I. He came to Sydney in 1921 and held
one-man shows in the capital cities. His work
is included in the National Galleries of Aus-
tralia and M.L. He was • commissioned by
the Commonwealth Government to painf pic-
tures of Canberra for presentation to M.L. in
1936. His pictures have been included in the
Royal Colonial Society’s exhibition in London
in 1937, Paris exhibition 1937, New York 1939
and the M.L. centenary exhibition in 1939-40.
Brief Answers.
D.K.: You are entitled to payment. Suggest
you forward claim to magazine.... Inketer:
(1) Do not know of any books dealing with
that subject. (2) There is no method of re-
claiming the ribbons P.A.H.: A no-ball
which the batsman does not touch is marked
in the score-book as four no-balls if it goes
to the boundary...-D.S.A.: Noel Heaton
Paint Technology and Chatfield Varnish Making
contaiu the information required J.G.:
Phar Lap’s stuffed hide is in Melbourne, his
heart in Canberra and his skeleton in New
Zealand R.W.; (1) It is an extract from
“Elegy in a Country Churchyard,” by Thomas
Gray. (2) The plural is eisteddfods....
8.A.8.; The Australian Jockey Club, Bligh-
street, Sydney, has records of the meetings
D.P.: Write C. Price Conigrave, General Sec-
retary, Royal Australian Historical Society,
History House, 8 Young-street, Sydney
A.R.P.: Some Sydney firms that may be able
to supply the equipment are Gibson, Battle
and Co., Ltd., Kent-street; A.S.E.A. Electric
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 10 O’Connell-street; Siemens
Australasia Pty., Ltd., York-street E.L.D.:
(1) About 10 miles north-east of Kalgoorlie.
gEdjudina Consolidated Gold Mines, Ltd.,
t year, had expenses amounting to £769,
without return, bringing the debit carried for-
ward to £19,069. Other cos. are becoming in-
terested in the locality and some satisfactory
boring results have been claimed. (3) No
recorded dealings M.J.: Australian Encyclo-
paedia, vol. 1, p. 255... .H.E.M.: Tests have been
made with Hardie Trading Co.’s cotton tape
rot-proofing preparation applied to fishing nets.
The firm states that the treated samples appear
to have about three times the life of untreated
cotton. The preparation is one of organic
copper salts and can be applied by immersion,
spraying or painting.


& OT:
9 A
Whether it’s for
harbour, beach, river
or deep sea fishing,
Craig and Aitken gladly
offer expert advice
about the best tackle
available. Inspection in-
vited. Samples of
also waterproof, lines
sent on ap-
plication.
cord
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
(Near Anthony Horderns)
Missing Friends.
KENNETH HUGH GARTRELL.
WOULD the abovenamed, who left South Australia
in November, 1929, seen in Melbourne shortly after,
or any person' having knowledge of him, please com-
municate with his father, ARTHUR H. GARTRELL,
8 Kitchener Avenue, Dulwich, South Australia?
New Zealand Thoroughbred Sales
RECORD ENTRY OF 465 YEARLINGS
JANUARY 16th, 17th, 23rd, 24th and 27th, 1947
The Sales that provide the largest percentage of Winners of any Sale held in
any part of the world. Since 1929 a total of 112 classic winners have been
catalogued, an average of six each Sale.
CATALOGUES are now available from the MELBOURNE office
of WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO. (AUST.) PTY., LTD.
Seventy Leading Sires are represented. In addition to the record entry of
yearlings, a record catalogue of 120 New Zealand-bred Brood Mares, Stallions,
Racehorses in Training and Untried Stock will be sold.
Special Sale of English Mares
A special catalogue of SIX YOUNG ENG-
LISH MARES served by the champion sire,
FOXBRIDGE (son of Foxlaw), the successful
English and Irish sire, recently imported,
COLUMCILLE (son of Foxlaw), and the bril-
liantly bred and staying son of Hyperion in
SUN KING, winner at H miles, offers breeders
a wonderful investment. These mares comprise
CLOCK TOWER, foaled 1942, half-sister to
three winners and descending from the great
mare, Chelandry, and closely related to the
English Oaks winner, Galatea 11, served by
FOXBRIDGE; MIRAMISS, 1943, by the Derby
winner, Mid-day Sun, from Miss Mischief, half-
sister to*4 winners, by Early School (brother
to the Oaks winner, Steady Aim) from Miss
Tickle, half-sister to three winners, by Teddy
from Mystical, good winner and half-sister to
Craig-an-Eran, 2000 Guineas, Eclipse Stakes,
etc., by Gainsborough from Maid of the Mist,
dam of winners of £23,049, by Cyllene from
famous Sceptre, served by SUN KING;
UNDER WAY, 1942, half-sister to four
winners, same family as Toboggan (Oaks), Can-
yon (1000 Guineas), Colorado (2000 Guineas),
etc., by the French-bred stayer, Michoumy, and
descending from Sterling Love, dam of two
winners of the Ascot New Stakes, served by
FOXBRIDGE; ADA FOX, 1942, half-sister to
the high-class two-year-old winner, Lady Bar-
bara, and from the same family as the unbeaten
two-year-old, Poise, and Challenger (a leading
sire in U.S.A.), by Fearless Fox, a high-class
stayer descending from . Pretty Polly, from
Nagrada, half-sister to 5 winners, by unbeaten
Tetratema from Imp, half-sister to the Irish
Derby winner, Raeburn, by Lemberg from
Harpy, dam of classic winners and half-sister to
seven good winners, by Swynford and descend-
ing from Amphora, sister to the great sire,
Sundridge, owing to late arrival not served;
WINDSOR SCUD, 1942, closely related to the
Irish St. Leger winner and noted sire, Battle
Song, by the St. Leger winner, Singapore, sire
of a brood mare sold for 12,000 guineas at the
recent Newmarket Sales, from Flying Scud,
half-sister to twelve winners, by the Derby
winner, Windsor Lad, from Cradle Song, dam
of two classic winners and ten other winners,
by Hurry On and descending" from the great
mare, Illuminata, served by COLUMCILLE;
and SOLAR METAL, 1941, half-sister to a
recent two- and three-year-old winner, by the
Irish Derby winner, Raeburn, from Platinum,
winner of the Leicestershire Oaks and half-sister
to two winners, by the Derby winner, Sanso-
vino, . from Sun Mist, half-sister to the Irish
Derby winner, Sol Oriens, by Soldennis from
Silver Mist, by Craig-an-Eran from Silver
Queen, half-sister to the 2000 Guineas winner,
St. Louis, served by COLUMCILLE.
%
These young mares were bought as fillies and
sent to the Dominion to acclimatise, and were
bred this season to New Zealand time. They
were very carefully selected by Mr. Gerald
McElligott of the British Bloodstock Agency
and are a very high-class lot, showing the best
English quality and breeding. The fees of the
respective sires to which they have been bred
are Foxbridge 300 guineas, Sun King 200
guineas and Columcille 150 guineas. Illustrated
catalogues are now available. Buying com-
missions will be executed for absentee breeders.
Full particulars on application to the Australian Agents,
Wright, Stephenson & Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
Sun Insurance Office, 34 Queen Street (P.O. Box 4339), Melbourne.
■■Ml
Is i
7
p\«°
m
PP
mt
■ > x
m
m >
■
;
;-. : s
glib
W' < v*£mSsk
'. v -’ *‘*
for everi|
re inforcement need
—FROM TINY PARCELS
TO 2-TON PACKAGES
Gerrard representatives
ar£ freely available in all
States to render expert
advice on your package
reinforcement problems.
Also Corrugated Fas-
teners, Bag Ties and
Packing Room Supplies .
GERRARD
WIRE TYING MACHINES CO.
PTY. ITD.
Head Office:
I 18-24 Ireland St., Melbourne West
m ■“**
m
AND AT
PERTH
mmm
' ...
!
’■
py ■ !>4'f-
=v. i
HTII BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
SYDNEY
I
CAIRNS
k.
TOWNSVILLE
HOBART
mam
■ S'
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
M.G.P.: “Paddy Murphy’s Bull” roared
itself out of the premises J. 8.: Your liars
are old acquaintances W.T.; Pointed but
not poetic G.W.; There are times when we
agree with you:
If the world was ruled by me
Poets, as men of artistry,
Would be hung in the Academy.
....M.F.: Yank-meets-Aussie-girl yarns are a
glut on the market G.M.; Thanks for your
covering letter. It was funnier than your
story T.S.: The parents of “The Lost
Child” will find him in the w.p.b.... .R.R.:
The blood certainly flowed freely the night of
the Butchers’ Ball J.McC.: “Belle, the bar-
maid, was the most popular woman in the
town.” There must be plenty jpf beer to be
had at the pub where she works... .P.W.: You
can keep your rajahs, Persian princes and
African gamehunters. We would sooner have
a Sydney tramrconductor L.S.K.: We are
getting very tired of outback feuds... .T.G.:
Old Bob’s monologue was about as interesting
as we’d imagine Old Bob would be A.S. :
We’re not receivers of stolen goods. Story is
a straight lift from Jack London... .C.Y.: We
have never met a first attempt entitled Retri-
bution” that was worth the effort of reading.
R.McC.; ’Tis a strong flight of fancy to
introduce a mature Chinese dragon into a
Potts Point flat: and do dragons really bark?
W.W.; “Billy Pinafore” is one of those
whimsical characters who rouse the worst in
readers.... 0.T.: Formless... .A.K.Q.: Under
close inspection, “The Snowdrop” melted....
F.C.: Since “all the dogs between Euroa and
Muckadilla, at one time or another, had been
sooled on to Pete” another rejection can do no
harm J.H.F.; Four lines, then, of the shear-
ing ballad:
“Well, strike me dead!”
The Shearer said:
“There goes a wether
Without any head.”
Temora Ted: Stick to Tqmora... .8.V.8.;
Dull C.C.; Slight 1.M.M.: Another “in-
visible man” yarn... .R.C.: Don’t tug the long
arm of coincidence so ruthlessly... .T.D.: Try a
daily 5.0. C.: “Sylvia bubbled with passion
....” She also bubbles with the most extraordi-
nary brand of nonsense... .D.C.: “Big City
Blues,” complete with crooks, “mouthpieces,”
“Federal dicks” and hundred-dollar bills, re-
turned under the armed escort to the G.P.0.,
Sydney P.L.; A passing thought:
A public-spirited person called Grave
Lived all by himself in a cave ;
He wrote to his wife,
“It’s a solitary life,
But look at the gas you must save.”
. ...T.1.R.: Come qgain H.M.: Wicked vis-
count and virtuous village girl met their just
reward in the w.p.b T.R.; Use adjectives,
Visualise, and make conversation direct....
C-L: Aberden Angus cattle are called “black
polls” —not p01e5.... A.V.8.: Treacly....
... .D.A.: Have a look at the world about you
and come again E.A.S.: Too long, too
rough K.H.; Not a show E.C.: “Para-
sol” a ragged sort of gamp.... Zero: Your
coffin has been nailed down with your verse
inside E.C.A.: Ride on;
T.B.L.: “And then he woke up” is the
usual conclusion to these fantasies J.O’L.:
It may be true, as you say, but it is also tedious.
R.B.: Wilde did it better,
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.H.W.: The bruiser and the beery bagman
are battling it out in the basket... .G.S.: Why
send us a picture of an English foxhunt?
J.M.: Phil May beat you to it by nearly 60
years....N.W.: All it will get is a return trip
to North Queensland A.H.: Sketch of in-
ebriated verger laid to rest in the office morgue
P.A.: Couldn’t stand the sight of the gent.
with arms sprouting out of the middle of his
back E.F.: Wild and woolly drawing and
ancient wheeze G.F.: Better look around
for some other spare-time hobby... .E*P.:
Your intention may have been excellent, but the
result was below par....M.F.: Hardboiled as
we are, we don’t like jokes of that sort....
D.W.: You can’t produce a masterpiece with an
indelible pencil and butcher’s paper... .A.M.:
Have you sent us a couple of X-ray photo-
. graphs by mistake?... .T.R.K.: Looks as if
you use one rubber-stamp for men and another
for women... .A.N.H.: Any line but a straight
one appears to get you into difficulties... .S.G.:
No applause for the oversize matron standing
on her head on top of a dog kennel.... TJ.:
No silhouettes, please... .M.L.J.: You have
much to learn about anatomy... .C.D.: Not
wanting the sa-veloy vendor and the lop-sided
policeman S.M.D.: Caricatures need to be
endorsed as to likeness by someone known to
us P.R.: Cannot detect a spark of talent
among that flurry of harsh lines J.8.H.: It
is courting danger to throw yourself on our
mercy with such efforts C.S.: Office blood-
hound is still searching for the point of the?
gag... .A.K.N.: Tackle one topic at a time.
Your attempt to deal with U.N.0., food for
Britain, Franco, the atomic bomb and the
American expedition to the South Pole in one
cartoon merely bewildered U5....F.G.: You’re
about as cheerful as a Scotsman who has had
his New Year’s Day bottle of whisky stolen.
W.H.: Undernourished drawing collapsed
before reaching the art-editor’s desk... .C.8.J.:
The Religious Editor is praying hard for the
soul of the artist who perpetrated that
F.P.: You’d do a perish if you had to de-
pend upon art A.L.; Has that blowfly-and-
grace gag only just reached your part of the
world?
BERNBOROUGH THE GREAT.
A long-legged scrawny colt was born,
And history was made.
Topwoomba on the Darling Downs slept on
Nor cared that Harry Winten’s mare,
At eighteen years, had dropped a foal to Emborough,
Bern Maid, its dam, caressed her new-born foal,
In which the blood of English champions flowed;
And fussed and fumed, in fierce maternal pride
While Bernborough, yet unnamed,
Essayed his first few staggering steps
In search of swollen dugs.
Then, while her offspring gambolled in the sup,
Or learned to run with long low sweeping strides.
She swished tormenting flies and dreamed,
And only she —this proud old mare—
Foretold the day when multitudes would thrill!
And raucous voices, stirred to frenzy, uncontrolled
Would roar: “Bernborough! Bernborough 1
Bernborough wins again!”
Some years elapsed;
Toowoomba still slept on or merely stirred
And a champion remained unrecognised.
A pity ’tis, that through those fateful years
His scope was limited.
But this reflects no stain upon the reputation
Of an honest, brave and docile Equine Gentleman.


No. 9 of "The Cookabundy Chronicles”
THE TRIUMPH OF MRS BOLTON
BY BRIAN
JAMES
MRS. BOLTON at the Grey Box was
something of a mystery and very
much of a terror. She belonged
most definitely to the battling type
of woman —most aggressively the battling
type. Years ago, she had married
Bolton, who was a nice, mild, innocent
man, and then she proceeded to break
him in. During this process he escaped
and fled to a distant part of the State.
There was nothing prepossessing about
Mrs. Bolton,; tall, angular, with a very
big nose that hooked like a beak, and a
very big mouth that would only shut
properly in the middle —there were two
open sections at the corners that never
would close. There was something
medieval a suggestion of witchcraft
—about her; which, added to her
habit of fierce communing with her-
self, made her such a terror. More
often than not the communing was
argument with an unseen person who
invariably was left a total wreck.
To such a person she spoke in a
high-pitched voice, and with crushing
sarcasm, and she herself supplied the
victim’s answers in a comparatively mild
and always cringing voice. For example:
“Your turkeys have been over again,
Mr. Ryan.”
“Do you really mean to say so, Mrs.
Bolton?”
“I wouldn’t say so if I didn’t mean it.”
“I am indeed very sorry, Mrs. Bolton.”
“A fat lot of good your sorrow does
when they have picked holes in all the
young pumpkins.”
“That’s really too bad.”
“It is.”
“Mrs. Bolton, I like to be decent —
what were the pumpkins worth?”
“More than you are able or willing to
pay.”
“Look, I’ll shoot them if they trespass
again.”
“Oh, you needn’t worry—l’ll shoot
them myself.”
Somehow Mr. Ryan was pictured as
slinking off to hide his shame.
Or it might be with the absent Mrs.
O’Meara:
“I don’t want the loan of your Iguggy.”
• “But you said you wanted it to go to
a wedding.”
“Oh, did I? Well, I don’t want it.
Not from neighbors who make such a
song about lending things.”
“I’m sure, Mrs. Bolton, you are wel-
come to the buggy.”
“I’m very sure I’m not welcome. I’m
only a poor woman —but I’m honest.”
“I never really hinted”
“No, of course not. You never hint
anything. That’s why your nose is up
in the air.”
“Oh, Mrs. Bol-
ton.” (In abject
tones).
“You can keep
your blasted
buggy I’m not
too proud to go
to a wedding in a
spring-cart.”
Or, again, a
grievance would
be worked out to
triumphant con-
elusion with the far-distant Mr. Bolton:
“Hullo, Alice, it’s great to see you.”
“Oh, it’s you, is it?”
“It’s-—it’s—good to be home.”
“Home!”
“Yes, Alice, home.”
“Whose home?”
“Eh —I mean your homo.”
“I’d like a man a lot better if he had
bristles.” V
It seemed that Mr. Bolton sank into the
ground at the suggestion of bristles.
THIS Mr. Bolton was a fine figure of
a man with something of vacuity in
his face. It may have been his beard that
created this impression. It was # a fine
luxuriant beard, nearly a foot long and
shaped like a spade. A rich red, too, but
in texture it was just like silk. In some
way or other that beard got on Mrs.
Bolton’s nerves, and hence her prefer-
ence for bristles.
There wasn’t much of Mr. Bolton’s
face that wasn’t covered with this red
silk, leaving a vague sort of opening for
a mouth, an island for a nose, and a
horizontal strip for eyes. After a smooth
forehead the red silk started again and
covered a big head. Mr. Bolton looked,
somehow, premedieval, an early saint,
very strong in his gentleness, and about
to face, with no little elation, the prospect
of martyrdom.
He was a complete failure in everything
—except, perhaps, as an escapee —though
he was not bowed down under the burden
of conscious failure. But there was a
large inability 1 in him to cope with any-
thing in an independent way. If he were
merely carting soil to the garden in a
wheelbarrow, he would constantly stop
to stroke his beard at the very com-
plexities of the problem. And when
Mrs. Bolton tried to think for him she
only added to his mental confusion.
He did better when he worked for
others, for there was a directness in the
task that made it easier to perform. Still,
even then his simplicity and good nature
often left him liable to imposition. Once
Mrs. O’Meara got him to bring a load
of wood. He arrived with a quantity
that made Darkie grunt and dig in his toes
at every slight rise.
“How much will it be, Mr. Bolton?”
“How much?”
“Yes, how much.”
“For the wood?”
“Yes, that’s right—for the wood.”
Mr. Bolton ran his fingers very lightly
through his beard —that indicated special
mental .effort:
“For the wood,” he repeated. “Just
wait a bit.” And he drove off with the
empty dray.
An hour or so later he was back with
an equally big load. He tipped it out.
“I only wanted one load, Mr. Bolton.”
“And that’s all.”
“But you brought two.”
“Begging your pardon, it’s a very small
dray,”
“Well, what do I owe you?”
Mr. Bolton seemed to go into a very
profoundly of delicate calculations. The
conclusion didn't seem quite relevant:
“There was one load of wood.”
“Well, how much for that?”
“I really couldn’t say.”
“But I want to pay you.”
The calculations began all over again,
and then, with the air of apology, for a
possible extortion made in complete good
faith:
“Do you think tuppence would be
asking too much?”
Mrs. O’Meara paid him what she
thought a proper thing—adding a bit to
it for conscience sake. Mr. Bolton looked
at the money doubtfully. “I’m robbing
you,” he said.
He wasn’t really consistent, however.
Mrs. O’Meara, thinking to do the nuns
at Summerlea a good turn, since they
were chronically in a most unfinancial
state, recommended Mr. Bolton as a
purveyor of excellent cheap wood.
He arrived at the Convent with a
modest allowance of very doubtful-look-
ing stuff. But there were no doubts as
to the price of his services.
“How much?” he repeated. “When
full consideration is given to the distance,
and the labor involved in cutting and
loading, and the time taken, and the exer-
tion of Darkie, to say nothing of the
wear and tear of the dray, and the fact
that I have a wife and child to support,
I feel justified in asking one pound.”
The Reverend Mother almost gasped.
Mr. Bolton held out his hand for the
money.
“But hasn’t there been some mistake —
about the price?”
“If there has been a mistake, it has been
on the side of extreme leniency.”
Mr. Bolton still held. out his hand —
and the money was paid.
So it can’t really be said that Mr.
Bolton was much of a success as a home
provider. Mrs. Bolton often told him
so, both to his face and in his absence.
MRS. BOLTON was driven to provid-
ing for herself and her very shining
offspring, Horace Robert.
Horace Robert was much like his
mother in feature; and his disposition
was made up largely of discontent. He
was thin, woefully so, and at ten he
weighed no more than an average boy of
six or seven. He looked starved, and his
appearing so was a gross injustice to the
care his mother bestowed upon him.
In a fierce and awesome way she loved
Horace Robert and even—when she
could lay hands upon him —would go
through the distressing process of
cuddlirig him. She tried to fatten him,
but the more food he consumed the
thinner and longer he became.
And for all this care and affection
Horace Robert was not grateful. He
was really most unfilial, and his general
attitude was that
of deep grievance
—particularly in
the matter of
food. There were
two items his
very being craved
above all others
—sugar and saus-
ages and , for
these he was will-
ing to sacrifice
his honor and his manhood-to-be. Sugar
was bought by the bag—seventy pounds
—and Horace Robert devoured it by the
cupful. It was soft white sugar, and full
of small hard lumps. He would scratch
through the opened bag for the lumps,
and put them aside for transport in his
pocket, and then eat great quantities of
the unlumped. The lumpy bits would
serve him when he was away from home.
His face was always clammy with sugar,
and his clothes always sticky.
When sausages were fried in the big
pan, Horace Robert rejoiced in the sizz-
ling sound—like heavy rain on an iron
roof and watched the browning
sausages hungrily. The little bits that often
oozed out of the ends and crisped and
cooked more rapidly were his special
perks. His mother speared these with
the long fork and put them on a plate.
. “Mind, Horrie dear, they’re hot.” But
Horace Robert didn’t mind their being
hot. He crunched them ; but even as he
did calculated whether they would be
debited against his share. Then he care-
fully watched the distribution, and set
size against numbers, and always felt he
was being cheated.
“She gave herself two big sausages, and
she gave him two big sausages, and she
gave me only three little ones! ”
Young Harry Ryan, who had an under-
standing soul, would listen thoughtfully
and sympathetically.
•“Horace, they’re starving you.”
Horace Robert agreed. “And then she
tries to fill me up with bread and jam! ”
Once the kangaroo-dog sneaked into
the kitchen, and under their very eyes
abstracted a whole two pounds of
sausages from the meat plate. It was a
major catastrophe. Mrs. Bolton, as a
true strategist, was at the door with a
broom in her hand to cut off retreat, acd
Horace Robert fairly dived at Scrug to
retrieve the treasure. But Scrug just sailed
through the window like a swallow, and
a long string of precious sausages
streamed by h?s yellow lean flank: Scrug
disappeared in a thicket of box suckers,
and those* sausages were gone .for ever.
Relations between Horace Robert and
Scrug were never the same again. Not
that there is ever much affection in kan-
garoo-dog?, but Scrug kept well out of
Horace Robert’s way, knowing full well
that murder lurked in the very heart of
him’.
Horace Robert went over to Ryans’,
as he always did when the world was
cruel. He was struggling with sobs and
rage. Young Georgie came out. “Horace,
you are in trouble. What has happened?”
“Scrug!”
“Dead, is he?”
A very big sob took a zig-zag course
from low down somewhere and shook
Horace Rooert’s frame badly as it found
its way out.
“He he stole the the”
“Good God! Not the sausages!”
Horace Robert could only answer the
•question by breaking down entirely.
He wanted to borrow the gun —a very
ancient muzzle-loader but young
Georgie said they were out of caps at
the moment.
MR. BOLTON found himself quite un-
able to cope with the work on the
farm. Whatever he did was wrong, what
he thought of doing was wrong, and
what he might have done was wrong.
He wasn’t resentful about this —it was
just the way things were, and it had been
decreed by fate.
At last he left home, but whether he
went of his own volition or whether he
was sent will never be known. After that
he was “up the country” or “down the
country” or “on the coast” or “out west.”
It was always a long way away, however.
It was to be gathered from Mrs. Bolton s
dialogues with the absent arid unseen that
he was still very useless wherever he was,
that he didn’t send money home, that he
didn’t carry on with other women, and
that she preferred bristles,
Mr. Bolton was really a home lover.
So there was something of the pathetic
exile about him. At Christmas-time he
would return “for good,” and generally
be gone again by New Year. Sometimes
during the year he would return also “for
good,” and again be off before the week
was out.
Mrs. Bolton worked the frirm as best
she could, and made butter and sold it —
good butter, too —wrapping it in wet rags
for sale. The presence of buttons, how-
ever, nearly ruined the butter business.
She kept bees; she made dresses; she
.was available at births and deaths when
Mrs. Gillett was elsewhere. In all, she
was busy. And then she took in Charlie
Box as a star-boarder.
CHARLIE was a man of strong char-
acter, high principles and shocking
profanity. He was Bohemian and Puritan
and a joy for the small boys of the
Cookabundy to look upon.
He seemed to hate small boys, and that
justified their giving him good solid
reasons for hating them. Although
slightly deaf, Charlie had a quick in-
tuition —be knew just what small boys
would be saying. When they passed him
on their way home from school, they
addressed him with a politeness that was
an insult in itself, and as the distance
widened they made remarks that had a
very definite be.aring on Charlie’s
bachelordom, his lack of morality, his
age and his big bushy beard. Innuendo,
in a very flimsy disguise, would remark
upon certain ladies of the district. Loud,
meaning laughs would greet these clever
thrusts. The internal fires of rage were
terrible in Charlie. He would stop and
face round —beard bristling and eyes red-
rimmed.
“Are you laughing at me?”
“Yes!”
“Are you talking about me ?”
“Yes!”
Charlie knew well enough that pursuit
'.was eagerly hoped for, and he knew he
lacked the speed—it was useless to chase
boys, nimble as young goats, among the
mullock-heaps and bushes. With red-
rimmed eyes he glared upon them, and
threatened immediate report to then-
parents, with horribly mutilating corporal
punishment to be administered by himself
when he caught them. All this in lan-
guage delightfully vigorous.
Charlie was an old digger, but in a
very different class from Paddy Griffin,
George Reilly, Black Bull and the rest.
He refused to live in a hut, and enjoyed
the comforts of domicile. He was a
farmer, too, of sorts, and occasionally
tilled the soil. He was a man of property
—at least he had, it was commonly be-
lieved, a fortune waiting him when his
father died.
This father of Charlie’s lived down
Sydney way somewhere, and was
reckoned very wealthy, and Charlie as the
oldest son was to inherit the wealth—if
the old man didn’t marry again. Since
he was within the hundred
mark this should have been most un-
likely but Charlie’s father was not as
other men. He was always getting
married again—after the last wife died.
Heaven knows how many times that old
man had married, so that Charlie alter*


nated between bright prospects and the
despair of utter destitution for his own
old age. Charlie viewed the women who
married his father with the darkest of
suspicions.
In the long period of waiting for this
precarious inheritance, Charlie pros-
pected and fossicked, or put in a crop
at whatever place he happened to be stay-
ing, or took a harvesting job, or followed
the threshing-machine or chaff-cutter. The
latter work took him away from “home,”
but in between he domiciled himself in a
number of ways. He stayed with his
Auntie Grace —she was three years
younger than Charlie, and this strange
reversal of ages was a matter of no little
wonder to children when uncles were
grey and aunties more or less wrinkled,
and, of course, very good and mostly
cranky. Auntie Grace may have been
fond of her ancient nephew, but she
found him hard to put up, with, especially
in winter time. Sad to say, Charlie had a
habit of crouching over the fire, and
spitting freely into it. It was annoying
at all times, and especially so when there
were visitors.
“I do wish you wouldn’t, Charlie.”
“Wouldn't what, begawd?”
“Well, you know.”
“Begawd, missus, what?”
“Well, spit in the fire. That is, so
often.”
Then, without another word, Charlie
would lumber down the paddock, catch
his two big chestnut draughts, harness
them, put them tandem in the dray,
drive up to the front, bring out a lot
of nondescript possessions and- soiled
clothing, and a pair of worn blankets,
dump all this in the dray. Then, com-
pletely ignoring Grace’s existence, he
would tell the horses they were a pair
of bastards, if ever there were, begawd,
and drive off. All of which indicated
that Charlie was a very sensitive man.
Half an hour later he would drive up
to his sister-in-law’s place, dump his
gear on the verandah, put the dray in
the shed, feed his horses liberally from
the chaff bin, and take his place by the
fire—if it were lit. If it were not, he
would moon about till it was. So his
brother would find him installed when
he arrive 4 home, and view him sourly.
In other ways also the arrangement
was not ideal; the. house was full of
children, and to Charlie’s expert eye
they were very badly brought up.
“Katie, why don’t you belt the little
so and so?”
“I won’t have you talk like that in
front of the children.”
“Like what, begawd?”
“What you just said.”
Then Charlie would move off again,
and the children, in some wonder, would
watch him go. And Charlie’s brother
would come back that evening and
breathe freely again.
AND that is how Charlie came to be
at Mrs. Bolton’s. ’ln many ways
it* was a good and convenient arrange-
ment. Charlie had the room at the end
of the house, and there was ample run
and stable for his horses. And Mrs.
Bolton, strangely enough, didn’t pester
and bother him.
The status of Charlie in the Bolton
home was a mystery to some; to others,
and they were of the low-minded - type,
it was no mystery. They knew. Even
these, however, confessed that they were
puzzled over what old Charlie could see
in her. Apart from that the issue was
plain and clear-cut. Of course, there
wa's a deal of talk about “open sin” and
“public scandal” and “standing disgrace,”
and Charlie was “old enough to know
better,” and Mrs. Bolton was “ugly
enough” to make it impossible. Still,
those who were shocked most at “these
carryings on” didn’t die of the shock;
in fact, they seemed to thrive under it.
Perhaps Horace Robert suffered most
from these domestic arrangements. He
didn’t like Charlie overmuch, but at a
maternal command that was not to be
denied he called Charlie “Mr. Box.”
Since no one in living memory had ever
used this address it was a sore trial to
Horace Robert. Boys at school got to
know of it —Georgie Ryan kindly sup-
plied them with the information—and
Horace Robert was made to suffer for it.
In fact, it led to a row of most satisfy-
ing proportions, involving a number of
families. A vague and often inexact
knowledge of antecedents helped the
matter considerably.
It was little Tommy Wenn who set
things going.
“ ’Ullo, ’Orry, how’s Mr. Box this
morning?”
There were giggles at this, and Horace
Robert resented them. He was not
i popular. And on account of his height,
and his thinness, and his appetite, and
his whinging, and his mother, and last
but not least his supposed inability to
defend himself, he was generally con-
sidered fair game. Tommy Wenn was
a wizened rat of a fellow, with no fore-
head to speak of, and shifty little eyes
with a suspicion of squintincss in them:
But Tommy could fight game as a
bull-ant, and there wasn’t much of him
to hit, and none of it bruisable or break-
able.
The giggles subsided to sniggers and
the sniggers to leering grins. Horace
Robert wasn’t game to focus on any
grin, but he could feel them all without
looking. He could feel, too, the rank
injustice and cruelty that produced the
grins. He was about to pretend that he
wanted a drink and was just starting
for the tank when Tommy, pleased with
his success, said, “How long is Mr. Box
going to stay, ’Orry?”
“You leave me alone, Tommy Wenn.”
“Gam, I’m not touching you,”
“You stop talking.”
“Make me, if you can.”
That was fighting talk, and the others
brightened up hopefully. Not that there
was much chance of fight in Horace
Robert. And Horace Robert knew well
enough that he was no match for
Tommy, small as he was. Then his mind
seized on a local legend—a very dis-
graceful one, but in his desperation he
was determined to use it.
“Black Bull’s your old man’s father!
He-e!” The exclamation was between
a sneer and a hiss.
To the younger boys this was about
as intelligible as a page of “begats” in
the- Old Testament, but the older lads
realised something of its significance.
Also that it was rank insult. And
Tommy was deeply touched.
“You maggot, ’Orry Bolton.”
“And you’re a black bull. Tommy
Wenn.”
Tommy just sailed in, and he looked
terribly efficient. Horace Robert didn’t
wait, but as he turned to run he caught
a stinger midway between shoulder blade
and kidney. It filled him with rage if
not with courage —he knew Tommy
would “belt the tripe out of him.”
He ran for the acacia tree, perhaps
to dodge, for Tommy pursued him.
Leaning against the .tree was a stick,
fairly stout, and several feet long. Horace
Robert grabbed this stick, dodged round
the tree, and, struck Tommy fair on the
head. It was’ a heavy hit, and the sound
of it was really impressive. Tommy went
down —stretched out without a move in
him.
j T was all over in a second or two.
1 There was silence after the sound of
the blow, and no one moved. It took
time to realise what had happened. Then
came the awful realisation that Tommy
was dead murdered. The fact that
Tommy was dead came to Horace
Robert, too.
He gave one look at the corpse, and
'the stick dropped from his hand. He
was not sorry for Tommy, only sorry
for himself and what would happen to
him on account of killing Tommy. Wild
panic seized him. With the animal cry
of the closely pursued he turned and
ran to the corner of the playground,
over the fence and into the bush.
But no one pursued the murderer —
they let him slip through their fingers as
it were. With hameless, instinctive fear
they seemed to creep on Tommy. Yes,
Tommy was dead —even though they
didn’t and couldn’t believe that a life
could be snuffed out like that. Then a
quite hysterical voice fairly screamed
out “Tommy Wenn ? s dead! Tommy
Wenn’s dead!”
That brought action and excitement.
Some boys, the enterprising kind who
act when big things happen, rushed down
to the school and burst in upon Miss
Gorm, and in all disregard of her pri-
vacy during recess burst into a babel:
“Miss Gorm! Tommy Wenn’s dead!”
... “Under the big acacia-tree! ” ...
“Horry Bolton done it!”... “We all
seen it!” “Horry Bolton’s cleared
out!”
Miss Gorm gathered little of the real
import of these frenzied utterances. But
at last she gathered that something very
serious had happened. She hastened to
the acacia-tree where some of the boys
and most of the girls were gazing with
thrills of horror upon the body. No one
had touched Tommy since he had fallen.
The crowd drew back a little as Miss
Gc'-u approached. Just a little, but not
;:u ;h as to lose sight of what went on.
There was a dry and acrid sort of effi-
ciency about Miss Gorm —just as if
mortality was not her lot at all. She knelt
beside Tommy and discovered he
breathed.
“Now, tell me what happened.”
Babel broke out again, but Miss Gorm
quelled it with a glance. Even in this
tensed emotional atmosphere her glance
was sufficient,
“You, George Ryan.”
“Horry Bolton did it. Miss Gorm.”
“How?”
“Bashed him.”
“What?”
“Hit him with a stick.”
“Where?”
“Under the tree,”
“Yes, yes—but part of him?”
“Fair over the head. Miss Gorm.”
“Where’s the stick?”
“That’s it near you, Miss Gorm.”
She glanced at the stick and felt
Tommy’s head. There was a lump under
his mousy hair as big as a pullet’s egg.
(Report soon had it larger than a turkey’s
egg.)
Then Tommy opened his eyes and
blinked hard.
“How are you, Thomas?” asked Miss
Gorm in a level emotionless voice as if
it were all one to her whether Tommy
was dead or alive.
“Don’t try to sit up now, Thomas.”
Tommy was groggily attempting to do
so.
“Oh, I’m all right. Miss.”
Then he seemed to remember. He felt
his head and fingered the lump. Even at
this juncture he was proud of the size
of it.
“She’s a beaut! ” Then, looking round
almost normally again: “Where’s Horry
Bolton?”
“Done a bunk—cleared out! ” supplied
one of the enterprising boys.
Tommy didn’t seem vindictive towards
the absent Horace Robert. In fact, the
other boys took a far more serious view
than Tommy did.
Tommy declared that he was quite all
right. A bit of a pain in the head —not •
too bad, though. It took a lot to kill a
Wenn.
There was much relief among the
schoolchildren at Tommy’s miraculous
recovery—of course he was quite right
again—and a little resentment, too’, that
he did recover, thereby robbing the affair
of the full spectacular effect.
HORACE ROBERT arrived home in
a woeful state, out of breath and
nearly strangling with sobs. Mrs. Bolton
hugged him till she found that the hugs
were making the frightful internal convul-
sions worse. It was a long time before
she could discover what was wrong.
Even then Horace Robert didn’t dwell
overmuch on the incident of the stick,
but concentrated on the insult. It was
very hard to explain—that is, to make the
insult big enough, for there didn’t seem
much to it when it was repeated. He
didn’t mention the matter of Black Bull
at all. And Tommy Wenn seemed to
have succeeded in dying without the par-
ticular assistance of anyone. But Mrs.
Bolton was not too ready to believe that
Tommy was dead, though she surmised
that Horace Robert had made some sort
of attack on him. But she did under-
stand the questioning about “Mr. Box.”
She decided to leave Horace Robert
at home —he was now sufficiently re-
covered to eat a cup or two of sugar—
and go up to school and see into things.
She arrived in mid-afternoon, having
had on the journey a noisy and trium-
phant quarrel, in advance, with Miss
Gorm, old Mrs. Wenn, young Mrs.
Wenn and several neighbors who, she
knew, would be talking of the affair
when it got about.
The school door was closed on ac-
count of a fairly stiff westerly. And so
was the window on that side.
Mrs. Bolton knocked. When Mrs.
Bolton knocked at the door there was
decision about it. The children, already
in a tensed state, felt that such a knock
could only be made by bushrangers or by
police looking for bushrangers. It was
certainly a day to remember.
Miss Gorm was quite unaffected.
“Birdie o!Meara, please see who it is.”
Birdie was closest to the door. Apart
from that, she was probably the worst
possible choice in the situation.
Birdie had high qualities of imagina-
tion. There was something terrible on
the other side of that door. She took a
tight hold upon herself, and advanced,
hesitated, trembled, advanced again, and
just as she was about to grasp the door-
knob found herself totally deprived of
all muscular activity. A second knock,
louder, if possible, than the first, seemed
to shake the whole building. Birdie just
froze. Miss Gorm, still unmoved, com-
manded “Open it!”
That was sufficient to help Birdie to
screw up her courage for just long
enough to open the door with one quick
movement. And framed in the doorway
was the grim figure of Mrs, Bolton. The
Lord knows what she represented to
Birdie at that moment, but Birdie
screamed and rushed back to her seat.
“Be quiet, Birdie O’Meara!” And Miss
Gorm went to the door.
“Well, Mrs. Bolton?”
“I want to see you.”
“You have
called at an un-
fortunate time. It
is school time, and
1 must ask you to
wait till three-
thirty.”
“This is very im-
portant.”
“The school is
also very import-
ant, may I remind
you.”
“I want to see
you now,”
“Three-thirty, if
you please.”
But Mrs. Bolton
came right in.
What Horace
Robert might lack
in ability tor phy-
sical combat didn’t
seem lacking in
Mrs. Bolton. It was no use, either, to
“remind” her of anything. And the level
gaze of Miss Gorm affected her not at
all.
She looked round the school, but there
was no sign of Tommy Wenn. Still, the
fact that school was going on indicated
that Tommy couldn’t be dead —not that
she really believed he was. She turned
back to Miss Gorm. *
“There’s a lot of dirty talk goes on in
this place.”
“1 wish no discussion with you.”
“Call yourself a school teacher!”
Mrs. Bolton looked ready for a fray—
with the necessary verbal passages that
precede it. She closed her mouth hard,
and the parts that wouldn’t close made
her fearsome to look at.
“Mrs. Bolton, I have asked you to
leave. Will you go?”
“No!”
“You are trespassing.”
“Fat lot you know about the law of
trespass.”
Mrs. Bolton loved the touch of legality,
being a good deal of a bush lawyer.
“I am afraid that, having warned you,
I must institute proceedings.”
“Do so, by all means. I intend to ‘in-
stitute proceedings,’ as you call it, my-
self.”
“And, furthermore, your son is liable
to arrest.”
“And for what?”
“Assault and battery.”
“On whom?”
“Tommy Wenn.”
“I don’t see him.”
“I sent him home in care of two other
boys.”
“He must have been hurt.”
Mrs. Bolton then invited anyone to
put her out —anyone at all, and she glared
hard at Miss Gorm. She gave her views,
expressed in vigor, of the educational sys-
tern generally, with particular reference
to the sample of it along the Cookabuqdy,
She gave a thumbnail sketch of Miss
Gorm, emphasising her uselessness. She
declared that Horace Robert was, far too
good to mix with the lot of children she
saw before her. She denounced her
neighbors as a most unneighborly crowd.
She broadly intimated that in a well-
ordered community there would be no
place for Wenns. By these gentle grada-
tions she reached the “whatabouts.”
Younger children really shouldn’t be
within hearing when “whatabouts” are
broached. On this occasion, they were
given much food for wondering inquiry.
i(\\T HAT about Mr. Box?”
VV This was defiance, not query; and
accusation, too, as though Miss Gorm
was harboring guilty thoughts and had
not kept them to herself altogether. But
Miss Gorm had been reduced to silence.
“What about the Black Bull?”
“What about the Bisleys?” Here, to in-
dictate a slight shifting of moral grounds,
Mrs. Bolton added, perhaps unnecessarily,
“/ never stole anyone’s sheep or cattle.”
“What about the dirty Doolans? ,1
haven’t my house full of bugs.”
“What about the Schneiders and the
Notts and the Reimers and the . . Here
she just had to stop for breath.
As a history of the district, at least
one side of its history, it was fairly com-
prehensive. Finally, as though Miss
Gorm were to blame for all the shortcom-
ings of the district for at least two genera-
tions, Mrs. Bolton summed up: “And
now, what about yourself?”
It didn’t seem that answers were really
expected ; in fact, the answers were im-
plied in the questions themselves. Having,
no doubt, given herself much internal
satisfaction, Mrs. Bolton took her depar-
ture, after one last fierce survey of the
schoolroom and all in it. She strode
down the hill, and through the bush, a
o Continued on page 32.)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. AND RUSSIAN VIEWS ON PARIS.
The achievements of the Paris Con-
ference were appraised from many differ-
ent angles. James F. Byrnes, Secretary
of State for the U.S., made of his report,
delivered in a broadcast address follow-
ing his return to America, an explana-
tion of the stand the U.S. delegation had
taken and a reply to the Russian atti-
tude.
“After every great war,” he said, “the
victorious allies have found it difficult to
adjust their differences in the making of
peace. Even before the fighting stopped.
President Roosevelt warned us that: ‘The
nearer we come to vanquishing our
enemies the more we inevitably become
conscious of differences among the
Allies.’
“It was inevitable that in the making
of concrete peace settlements the Allies
should discuss and debate the issues on
which they disagree and not those on
which they agree. It was also inevitable
that such discussions should emphasise
our differences. That is one reason. I
have continuously pressed to bring about
agreements upon the peace settlements as
rapidly as possible, Leaving unsettled
issues which should be settled only serves
to increase tension among the Allies and
unrest among the peoples affected. We
cannot think constructively on what will
or will not contribute to the building of
lasting peace and rising standards of life
until we liquidate the war. It is diffi-
cult to deal with the problems of a con-
valescing world until we get the patient
off the operating-table.
“These treaties are not written as we
would write them if we had a free hand.
They are not written as other Govern-
ments would write them if they had a
free hand. But they are as good as we
can hope to get by general agreement
now or within any reasonable length of
time. The reparation payments are
heavy—excessively heavy in some cases.
But their burdens should not be unbear-
able if the peoples on which they are laid
are freed from the burdens of sustaining
occupying armies and are given a chance
to rebuild their shattered economic lives.
For Europe, with her mingled national
economies, there are no ideal boundary
settlements.
“Much has been said about acrimoni-
ous debates and divisions in the Con-
ference. Back of those divisions were
real and deep differences in interest, in
ideas, in experience and even in pre-
judices. They cannot be dispelled or
reconciled by a mere gloss of polite
words. And in a democratic world those
differences cannot, and should not, be
kept from the peoples concerned. It is
better that the world should witness and
leam to appraise clashes of ideas rather
than clashes of arms.
“In a world where no sovereign State
can be compelled to sign or ratify a peace
treaty, there is no perfect peacemaking
machinery. Where boundaries, colonies
and reparations are involved, a peace
treaty cannot be made effective unless it
is satisfactory to the principal Powers.
Under these circumstances, the Confer-
ence provided as adequate an opportunity
for the smaller States and
States to express their views on the pro-
posed treaties as it was practical to
provide.
i
U.S. versus Soviet
“The thing which disturbs me is not
the lettered provisions of the treaties
under discussion, but the continued, if
not increasing, tension between the
U.S. and the Soviet. The day I took
office as Secretary of State I stated that
‘the supreme task of statesmanship the
world over is to help the people of this
war-ravaged earth to understand that
they can have peace and freedom only if
they tolerate and respect the rights of
others to opinions, feelings and ways of
life which they do not and cannot share.’
It is as true now as it was then that the
development of sympathetic understand-
ing between the Soviet and the U.S. is
the paramount task of statesmanship.
“Two States can quickly reach an
understanding if one is willing to yield to
all demands. The U.S. is unwilling to do
that. It is equally unwilling to ask it of
another State. Every understanding re-
quires the reconciliation of differences
and not a yielding by one State to the
arbitrary will of the other.
“If States are to reach such agreements
they must act in good faith and in the
spirit of conciliation. They must not
launch false and misleading propaganda
against one another. They must not
arbitrarily exercise their power of veto,
preventing a return to conditions of peace
and delaying economic reconstruction.
No State should assume that it has a
monopoly of virtue or of wisdom. No
State should ignore*or veto the aggregate
sentiments of mankind. States must not
unilaterally, by threats, by pressures or
by force, disturb the established rights of
other nations. Nor can they arbitrarily
resist or refuse to consider changes in the
relationships between States and peoples
which justice, fair play and the en-
lightened sentiments of mankind demand.
We must co-operate to build a world
order, not to sanctify the status quo, but
to preserve peace and freedom based
upon justice. And we must be willing to
co-operate with one another.
“We have been criticised at times for
being too ‘soft’ and at times for being
too ‘tough.’ I dislike both words.
Neither accurately describes our earnest
efforts to be patient but firm. We have
been criticised for being too eager to
find new approaches after successive re-
bukes. And we have likewise been
criticised for not seeking new approaches.
We will not permit the criticism to disturb
EACH TO HIS OWN.
N.Y. "Times."
us nor to influence our action. We will
continue to seek friendship with the
Soviet and all other States on the basis
of justice and the right of others, as well
as ourselves, to opinions and ways of life
which we do not and cannot share.
“But we must retain our perspective.
We must guard against the belief that
deep-rooted suspicions can be dispelled
and far-reaching differences can be recon-
ciled by any single act of faith. The
temple of peace must be built solidly,
stone upon stone. If the stones are
loosely laid, they may topple down upon
us. We must equally guard against the
belief that delays or setbacks in achieving
our objective make armed conflict inevi-
table, It is entirely possible that the
failure or inability of the Soviet leaders
to rid themselves of that belief lies at the
very root of our difficulties. We will
never be able to rid the world of that
belief if we ourselves become victims to it.
“War is inevitable only if States fail
to tolerate and respect the rights of other
States to ways of life they cannot and
do not share.
“It is that idea of the inevitability of
conflict that is throttling the economic
recovery of Europe. It is that idea that
is causing artificial tensions between
States and within States. The U.S. stands
for freedom for all nations and friendship
among all nations. We shall continue to
reject the idea of exclusive alliances. We
shall refuse to gang up against any State.
“We deplore the tendency upon the
part of the Soviet to regard States which
are friendly to us as unfriendly to the
Soviet. We deplore the talk of the en-
circlement of the Soviet. We have it from
no less authority than Generalissimo
Stalin himself that the Soviet is in no
danger of encirclement.
“During the war the Baltic States were
taken over by the U.S.S.R* The Polish
frontier and the Finnish frontier have
been substantially modified in Russia’s
favor. Konigsberg, Bessarabia, Buko-
vina and Ruthenia are to be given to her.
In the Pacific, the Kuriles, Port Arthur
and Sakhalin have been assigned to her.
Certainly the Soviet is not a dispossessed
nation.
“Before the Conference, the U.S. spared
no effort to reconcile its views on the
proposed treaties with those of the Soviet.
Indeed, the Soviet insisted that our views
be reconciled on all questions which it
regarded as* fundamental before it would
consent to the holding of the Confer-
ence. While there were many issues
which attracted little public attention on
which the Soviet and the U.S. voted
together, it was regrettable that on many
issues which did command public atten-
tion the Soviet and the newly-established
Governments in Central and South-
eastern Europe voted consistently to-
gether against all the other States. What-
ever considerations caused this close
alignment of the Soviet and her Slav
neighbors on these issues, other States
were not constrained to vote as they did
by any caucus or bloc action. If the
voting cleavage at Paris was significant,
its significance lies in the fact that the
cleavage is not between the U.S. and fhe
Soviet, or between a Western bloc and
the Soviet. The cleavage is based upon
conviction and not upon strategy or
hidden design.
“I should be less than frank if I did not
confess my bewilderment at the motives
which the Soviet delegation attributed to
the U.S. Not once, but many times,
they charged that the U.S. had enriched
itself during the war, and was now seek-
ing to enslave Europe economically.
“The U.S. has never claimed the right
to dictate to other countries how they
should manage their own trade and com-
merce. We have simply urged in the
interest of all peoples that no country
should make trade discriminations in its
relations with other countries. On that
principle the U.S, stands. It does not
question the right of any country to
debate the economic advantages or dis-
advantages of that principle. It does
object to any Government charging that
the U.S. enriched itself during the war
and desires to make ‘handouts’ to Euro-,
pean Governments in order to enslave
their peoples. We want to assist in Euro-
pean reconstruction because we believe
that European prosperity will contribute
to world prosperity and world peace.
That is not dollar democracy. That is
not imperialism. That is justice and fair
play.”
Molotov Sees It Differently
The Soviet Foreign Minister, M. Molo-
tov, had expressed his views on the work
of the Conference a few days earlier, in
an address at its close. He, too, referred
to conflict between Russia and the U.S.,
laying the blame elsewhere, as was
natural enough.
“The Conference constitutes the first
attempt to institute broad collaboration
among all the States and to establish a
firm peace in Europe,” said Molotov. “To
answer our expectations these treaties
must correspond to the profound aspira-
tions of the peoples and be the effective
rampart against aggression. Conse-
quently, they must allow democracy’s
principles to prevail and establish the re-
sponsibility of the aggressor and punish
him. They also must guarantee the
security of the peoples and forge their
union against any new aggression.
“The Conference was preceded by im-
portant preliminary work accomplished
by the Council of Foreign Ministers.
That Council examined the principal
questions. It took decisions notably as re-
gards the frontiers of the enemy countries.
It studied the question of reparations.
It set restrictions of a military nature
which will be imposed on Germany’s
satellite countries. On a great number
of points, agreement could be realised.
On the other hand, certain others could
not be settled. Economic questions in
particular did not see a complete agree-
ment of the Big Four. The Paris Con-
ference was assembled to give its opinion
on the clauses contained in the peace
treaty, clauses on which the four had
reached agreement, as well as clauses on
which it did not yet exist.
“What are the first lessons to be
drawn? Questions on which the Big
Four already had reached agreement also
received the agreement of the 21. Changes
have indeed been made here and there,
but they do not modify the substance of
the prepared texts except as regards
Trieste. In the case of Trieste, we have
seen the Conference take a step backward.
A decision of an antidemocratic char-
acter was taken which does not conform
with the text proposed by the Council of
the Big Four. The responsibility for this
disagreement, for this lack of solidarity
weighs heavily on three countries, the
U.S., Britain and France, which have
violated the engagement made.
“The balance sheet, the complete result
of this Conference, cannot be considered
satisfactory. It is not satisfactory on
numerous questions which were the object
of insufficient preparation and concern-
ing which certain countries, members of
the four-Power Council and having a
practically assured majority in the Con-
ference, did not wish to continue the ex-
amination. These countries are the key-
stones of a group that succeeded in im-
posing its will on the Conference by the
game of majority votes.
“The first cause of this unsatisfactory
work comes from the fact that, through-
out the Conference, one group of coun-
tries showed the desire of dominating, of
dictating to other countries what they
considered/ essential.
“The clearest result of this manfter of
action is that, we have arrived at the end
of the Conference without having decided
a question as grave as that of the Greco-
Bulgarian frontier. To tell all, this deci-
sion only serves those who are fomenting
new aggressions, and not those who warit
to serve the cause of peace. Our Bul-
garian friends can be calm. This evil
vote will not be ratified by the four-Power
Council. What was not judged good be-
fore the opening of the Conference will
not be judged good afterwards. That is
why we can say to our Bulgarian
friends: be calm." The frontier will re-
main as it is. When the chief U.S. dele-
gate voted ‘no,’ it was the signal for a
cascade of other ‘noes’ —12 to 13 —which
assured a majority. We have been able
to state that a group here was alple to
impose its decisions, whether just or not,
simply because these decisions pleased
this dominating group.
“As for the Trieste question, these three
Powers did not maintain the point of view
that they had adopted in the Council of
four. They did, in fact, judge the moment
favorable to withdraw their decision,
although it conformed with the purest
democratic spirit, and by doing that the
three Powers have broken their most
formal engagement.
“Turning to another question, I notice
that an attack is being mounted now
against the right of veto, an attack that is
to be unleashed during the work of the
General Assembly. Unfortunately, we
see the President of the General Assembly
himself —he who should have the Charter
of the United Nations at his fingertips—
criticising the Charter, where it is written
that the concurring votes of the Big Five
are necessary on all questions relative to
peace and security. Someone is trying
to blow on the coals. We are witnessing
a series of regrettable temptations. What-
ever these temptations may be, no matter
where they come from, they are directed
toward the use of the work of the United
Nations or the results of this Peace Con-
ference to serve the exclusive interests
of a group of countries. Against these
temptations the Soviet will always pro-
test.”


U.N. Trusteeships—in Part.
The Charter of the United Nations Or-
ganisation called for the establishment of
three major Councils. Two of them —the
Security Council and the Social and
Economic Council —have been function-
ing, more or less happily, for some time.
The third, the Trusteeship Council, is but
lately bom, with pain and difficulty.
The N.Y. “Times” has explained its
purpose, and the hopes held out for its
future growth. “Under the Charter, the
Trusteeship Council is the agency that
will deal with ‘trust territories’ —those
non-self-governing areas of the world
that may be placed under U.N. super-
vision.”
The “Times” remarked that “since the
lands most frequently mentioned as pos-
sible ‘trust territories’ include areas of
great economic and strategic importance,
the entire subject of trusteeship has be-
come one of the touchiest questions yet
faced by U.N.O.
The Council will include the five
Great Powers (the U.S., Britain,
Russia, Frapce and China), any other
nations administering trust territories,
and as many countries as necessary
to create an even division between ad-
ministering and non - administering
countries. The Council will have under
its jurisdiction all territories which the
various Powers choose to place under
the U.N.’s ‘trusteeship system.’ This rela-
tionship will be established through ‘trust
agreements’ individual arrangements
made in each case between the colonial
or mandatory Power directly concerned
and the General Assembly.
“The objectives of the trusteeship
system are ‘to further international peace
and security, to promote the political,
economic, social and educational ad-
vancement of the inhabitants of the trust
territories’ and to help them to their ulti-
mate independence, as well as to en-
courage respect for human rights. The
Council has the power to ask for periodic
reports from the administering authority ;
it may accept petitions and examine them
in consultation with the administering
authority, and it has the right to send
out inspectors at times agreed upon with
the administering authority. In this last
respect it has power that the League of
Nations Mandates Commission never pos-
sessed. However, except for the fact that
all members of the U.N. are committed to
the goals laid down in the Charter, the
Council has no power to enforce com-
pliance with them.”
It is in this voluntary nature of the pro-
posals for trusteeships that the greatest
difficulty was experienced in bringing
the Council into existence. There is a
certain unity of intention among the
United Nations not precipitately to
commit themselves as to their ideas about
strategic areas under their control.
“There are three general categories of
territories that enter into discussions. In
the first group are former German
colonies given as mandates to various
Allied Powers after World War I and
still occupied by them. In the second
are the Pacific islands mandated to Japan
and now occupied by America. In the
third are the former Italian colonies in
Africa.
“The nations which have already sub-
mitted trusteeship agreements for
approval and the territories so covered
are:
Britain —The Cameroons, Togoland
and Tanganyika.
France —The French Cameroons and
French Togoland,
Belgium —Ruanda-Urundi.
New Zealand —Western Samoa.
Australia —New Guinea and the former
German islands in the Pacific south of
the Equator.
“Not covered by agreements as yet are
the overseas possessions of Italy and
Japan and three important mandated
areas —Palestine, still administered by the
British; South-West Africa, which the
Union of South Africa wants to annex
outright, and the islands in the Pacific
formerly under Japanese mandate and
now administered by the U.S. Thus far
the official position of the U.S. is that,
since no peace treaty with Japan has been
signed, nothing can be done about the
mandates. The question is whether the
U.S. should annex the islands or keep the
strategic areas and place the rest under
U.N. jurisdiction.”
Insofar as the Japanese mandated
islands are concerned President Truman
has made a sort of a kind of a proposal
for their future, but it was by no means
complete and it caused a sharp divergence
of opinion in the U.S.
William A. Stringer, writing in the
“Christian Science Monitor,” says that
“what the President made clear is:
f 1, —That the U.S. will ask the U.N.
for sole, exclusive trusteeship over Pacific
islands where it is deemed essential to
establish bases for American security.
T 2 as regards islands not
deemed essential for American security,
the U.S. will permit collective, many-
nation trusteeships to be established over
most of them.
“Truman did not name the islands re-
garded as essential. Among the armed
forefes, however, the islands most cited are
Kwajalein, Majuro, Eniwetok, Saipan,
Palau, Truk, Iwo Jima and Okinawa.”
Stringer declares that “some State De-
partment opinion favors the eventual
restoration to Japan of former Nippon-
owned islands which are on its doorstep,
such as Okinawa, even though they are
strategically valuable. The argument is
that a reviving Japan eventually will
demand the return of such islands, and'
that for the U.S. to retain them perpetu-
ally would build eventual enmity between
the two countries. Decision in this matter
is expected to be motivated largely by
American security needs —whether it is
determined necessary to run the American
Pacific defence line as far westward as
Okinawa and Iwo Jima.”
He believes that “there is little reason
for apprehension over the kind of sole,
exclusive trusteeship envisaged by Presi-
dent Truman. Military authorities ad-
vanced the argument that if the islands
were trusteed, Russia could use the veto
to hamstring American defence plans.
The answer made by diplomatic sources
is that it will be possible for the U.S.
to offer its sole trusteeship plan—placing
security-vital Pacific islands under ex-
clusive U.S. trusteeship—on a take it or
leave it basis. If the Trusteeship
Council, including Russia, accepts the
American plan, then it has accepted
a complete American programme in
which the U.S. has spelled out its
powers and preroga-
tives in the islands
so clearly that it does
not have to refer
back to the Council
on any substantive
matter whereon
Russia could use its
veto. But if the
Council should refuse
the plan, then the
U.S. remains in ex-
clusive possession of
the islands through
default of trusteeship
agreement.”
Jay Walz in the
N.Y. “Times” sees
the proposal “large
with implications
both for the U.N.O.
and for American
relations with other
major Powers.
“It is based on
a provision of the
Charter written as a result of U.S. con-
cern over these islands. This provision
makes allowance for setting up ‘strategic
area’ trusteeships under the Security
Council, rather than under the Trustee-
ship Council. It allows the Trusteeship
Council a very limited function in the
strategic areas. It empowers the Security
Council to call on the Trusteeship Council
to handle ‘political, economic, social and
educational matters in the strategic areas,’
But such action is specifically made ‘sub-
ject to the provisions of the trusteeship
agreements,’ which means that the United
States, as originator of these agreements,
has final say in the matter.
“The key to the plan is that it reserves
to the U.S. the right to shut out the Trus-
teeship Council from any ‘closed base
areas’ within the trust territory. That
might mean military bases, or it might
mean at some time the entire trust terri-
tory. It is in this respect that the agree-
ment proposed differs from other trustee-
ship proposals, such as those already sub-
mitted by the British and the French re-
garding certain East African lands.”
Walz thinks “the plan is sure to raise
objections in the Security Council. There
may be raised, first, the question of
whether the U.S. is asking for trusteeship
in name only; or whether, in effect, it is
achieving annexation.
“There may be another objection to
the proposal to ban foreign aircraft from
the territory, except after special agree-
ment between the U.S. and individual
countries. The main repercussion, how-
ever, is expected over the provisions for
closing off ‘base areas.’ The Soviet, for
one, is almost certain to view this part
of the proposal with disfavor, if not with
some alarm. The Soviet, already con-
cerned about the role the U.S. is playing
in the Western Pacific, can hardly be ex-
pected to countenance a plan guarantee-
ing the U.S. secret strongholds within
short bombing reach of the Soviet
frontier. The Soviet will look upon the
U.S. proposal for the mandate islands as
the pattern that President Truman said
it would set for ‘any Japanese islands for
which it assumes responsibilities as a
result of the second World War.’ What
these islands, if any, may be will be sub-
ject to the decision of a peace confer-
ence.”
Flanson Baldwin pointed out, also in
the “Times,” that in the U.S. itself the
plan has been criticised because it repre-
sents only a piecemeal approach to the
problem of the Pacific. “Mr. Truman in-
cluded only those islands within what the
Navy calls the ‘Pacific ellipse’—the
Marianas, Marshalls and Carolines. But
the Ryukyus, lying strategically across
the approaches to the Yellow Sea and to
North China, and the Bonins, which are
the outposts of the great U.S. bases in
the Guam-Saipan-Tinian area, were not
mentioned. Nor were the Kuriles, which
at the Yalta conference the U.S. agreed
to ‘hand over’ to Russia, but without any
definition of what that term means.
Critics believe that all these problems
must be considered integrally, that Korea,
China, the Ryukyus, the former Japanese-
mandated islands, the Bonins and the
Kuriles must all be linked to a Japanese
peace treaty, and that it is idle to expect
much —if anything —from a trusteeship
offer until the general, overall political
problems of the Pacific are solved.”
Russia has already been heard in criti-
cism of the various trusteeship proposals.
The Soviet delegate to the U.N.0.,
Nikolai V. Novikov, complained in com-
mittee that “draft agreements have not
been submitted by all mandatory Powers,
and certain States which have submitted
drafts in regard to some of their man-
dated territories have not submitted
drafts in regard to others. Britain having
submitted draft agreements for Tangan-
yika, Togoland and the Cameroons has
not submitted a corresponding draft on
trusteeship over , Palestine. Similarly,
Australia, having put forward a draft .on
trusteeship over New Guinea, has not
submitted a draft on Nauru, over which
—The Swiss "Nebelspalter.”
HOW LONG CAN HE HOLD ON?
it exercises a mandate on behalf of the
British Empire. Finally, there is the ques-
tion of the territories of Trans-Jordan
and South-West Africa.
“The failure to submit a draft on
Palestine raises the question of reasons
which the British Government may have.
One thing is clear ; the attempts of the
British to solve the question on Palestine
by negotiations with the U.S. Govern-
ment as well as with Arab and Jewish
representatives apart from U.N.O. does
not correspond to the principles of the
U.N. Charter.” ,
Novikov said that “the fate of this as
well as other former territories under
mandate cannot be left suspended after
the liquidation of the League of Nations.
There are but two possible legal ways of
determining their fate, either by grant-
ing true independence to this or that terri-
tory or by transforming it into a trust
territory.
“While Britain and Australia, by not
submitting drafts of agreements on
trusteeship over Palestine and Nauru,
avoided the implementation of the provi-
sions of the Charter the Union of South
Africa went considerably further and
, took the road of direct violation of the
provisions and principles of the Charter,
Instead of a draft trusteeship agreement
South Africa submitted a proposal con-
cerning the annexation of South-West
Africa, attempting to justify its proposal
of annexation by a fictitious demonstra-
tion of ‘the will of the people of the
territory under mandate,’ This is merely
an attempt to camouflage the proposal
of a direct annexation.
“In this connection I cannot help men-
tioning the statement made hy Field-
Marshal Smuts that the annexation of
South-West Africa by the Union of South
Africa is an inevitable process. In sup-
port of this more than doubtful thesis
Field-Marshal Smuts referred to certain
historical examples, citing among them
the cases of the Union of South Wales
and Scotland with England, of Texas and
Louisiana with the U.S. and of Eastern
Siberia with Russia, events that happened
under entirely different international and
political situations. The fact that we now
are members of the U.N.O. should have
the prime significance for us, and we
should co-ordinate our actions with
principles under which we put our sig-
natures.”
Novikov’s address did little to make
pleasant the arrival of the Trusteeship
Council.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
What is the mind and mood of the American
people? The old isolation is fading. The con-
clusion is growing that the U.S. must play
a leadership role among nations if Western
civilisation, .with its concept of freedom of the
individual, is to survive. There’s a feeling
that Communism has sufficient tyranny in it to
be labelled an arch-foe of this individual liberty.
But along with this clarity, many express a
great perplexity over the parliamentarianism of
the United Nations with its endless debates and
two-thirds rules. The old comfortable feeling
that America is immune to attack is vanishing.
The feeling of unease is increased by the great _
puzzlement over Russia. I’ve heard people say
they didn’t understand a single move made by
the Kremlin since VJ-Day. What’s biting
Russia?, they ask. What are we facing: crude
Tsarist expansionism, a Communist or Slavic
bid to rule the world, a deadly suspicion of the
West? John Fischer, who travelled widely in
Russia as Ukraine U.N.R.R.A. chief, ( says a
main trouble is simply this: Russian Communist
dogma teaches that Western capitalism is
doomed, and that eventually a serious economic
depression will transpose it into Fascism
bound to be militantly anti-Russian, and ready
to make war on Russia. What can be done
about it? Mr. Fischer suggests that the U.S.
will dissipate this fear by proving it can avoid
devastating slumps. If, by 1960, the United
States still is without serious depressions, Com-
munists may have to revise their dogma. Ameri- •
cans, are beginning to ponder this problem of
how to deal with Russia, believing that, while
no easy peace can be expected in the world,
this nation can confidently carry on with ‘‘firm-
ness in the right.”— William H. Stringer, in the
“Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
However strongly “a Government so ob-
noxious to democratic opinion” as Franco’s
may be condemned in private, public action by
the U.N.O. can only be justified on one of two
grounds: that the Government is an inter-
nationally aggressive one, and -a danger to
peace, or that it refuses to recognise the rights
of common humanity as set out in the Atlantic
Charter. It is clear that a Government wnose
passion for military aggression failed to bring
it into action on the winning side in 1940, when
anybody could have a war who wanted it, is
not going to be a serious danger to peace in an
atomic age when nobody wants it. Presum-
ably, therefore, the reason for action against
Spain is the U.N.O.’s indignant repudiation of
single-party government, political concentration
camps, a justiciary under orders of the execu-
tive, and the denial of the right of self-expres-
sion. To those of us who share this indignation
to the full, it is comforting to have the implied
assurance of the U.N.O. that Spain is the only
country in the world where these things happen.
Fortunately it is a small and isolated country.—
A. A. Milne, in London "Times.”
The United Press polled fourteen noted
economists on the question: D 9 you believe
the U.S. is heading into a major depression
and if so when will it strike and how long
will it last? Four replied “yes”: nine said
“no”: one was undecided. Nine said, how-
ever, they believed the nation was headed for
a minor depression. Several predicted varying
periods of prosperity after a minor depression.
Asked what could be done to forestall a
depression, seven'of the experts recommended
some kind of Government action, two said
different psychological attitudes are necessary,
three said price adjustments and co-operation
by labor were needed, and two expressed
belief that nothing can be done. — N.Y. "Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
The blunt warning of Sir Stafford Cripps that
unless Britain gets nearer balancing its foreign
trade “we shall come a real cropper in a year
or two” is the healthiest Ministerial pronounce-
ment to date. The rank and file of the Labor
party seems to live in a fool’s believ-
ing that by nationalisation and by sewing up
British economy in Government controls a
high standard of life can be achieved with-
out further, effort. They ignore the fact that
even the present low standard of living is
threatened. Exports have surpassed expecta-
tions, but another 50 p.c. expansion is needed
to attain the target of a 75 p.c. increase over
pre-war shipments. That’s the minimum neces-
sary to maintain the present standard of living.
It looks as if something more drastic than in-
tensifying the export drive is needed. The
British will have to consider whether they can
afford to continue imports of American tobacco
and movies on the present scale and whether
they may not have to curtail even further
domestic consumption of some materials such
as steel in order to set them free for export.
— "Wall-street Journal’s” London correspondent.
* * * *
The Jan. 19 elections in Poland will mark a
turning-point in the relations between the U.S.
and Poland. They will either be much better
or much worse; they can hardly remain merely
strained, as they are now. The U.S. switched
recognition from the Polish Goverament-in-
Exile to the present Warsaw regime on the
strength of a formal promise made at Yalta
and reiterated at Potsdam. It was promised
that free and unfettered elections would be held
as soon as possible. Poland has held no such
elections. Yet, leaning backward to be more
than fair at Potsdam, President Truman and
Prime Minister Attlee admitted to a pure fiction.
They pretended something that was not so —
that “Poles from Poland and abroad” had
formed a Government of “national unity” in
line with Yalta. On that pretension they ex-
changed Ambassadors with Warsaw. Former
Premier Mikolajczyk, head of the “Poles
abroad,” has never had the slightest power
since his return from London. At the time ot
Potsdam, Washington and London were still
living on hopes. On paper, at least, the
U.S. has insisted on free elections in
all the liberated areas, including former Axis
satellites. But, save in Greece and Italy, where
they had Anglo-American supervision, none
answering that description has been held. In
Rumania, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia they have
been brazenly rigged in advance. Communist
Front combinations aided and abetted by the
secret police have turned in victories of land-
slide proportions. If the Polish elections
follow the familiar pattern, it cannot fail seri-
ously to disturb Polish-American relations.—
William Philip Simms in N.Y. "World Tele-
gram.” 1


" s
currty
is -'' ’ i >*-.«
se
for
ml
«\\ ? a -■•. • >' ; wMlk
v i%- -■'
■ ' - .
* *1
-
v «C ». ■> •■ *■ ■
\ m
\> '■
% mm
•%...-. ••
* S
1111
FsS ‘ .v ■ , , mm
IgISSI
SJSSSSS^
Si
iiiii
CftCftC
-1 jftft' ft /if V;" v/ft* ,'* ft : /ftft : ft>i:/ : ft;ftftfti
MBI
iHI H HH
■
-.;• ••
mm
S&&
' : :: -: ;
m
, igss
/ BS s /'/;/;/////;«:/?
:;-.: :; ftv
n
- *t .£? • •*>:
g - -' , v,'v jv - -- -
"ff'Sififi
»i *'V', ,*•.** i ' . 2?
. ■ ::
i?'y££t.
mmsmm
il
■
W
:^..ftft ft
■•■;■ ■ ;■ ■'ftft'ift'': : -;:ftftft;ft.
‘X-’Cr^
.
ft: ft i:
JL
I"
' : ■■ ■■' ■: g
11111
P Pi
':: -ft'- 1
’ ‘ I: - :
111
■■;'■ ' // - ..
: 1
m
*r
i.
-/.:/’ '■■ <' -
5 / ,f'
■■MiM -
■■
for efficiency
.f ;'ft
' .'
s 111
Waterloo Steel Roller Shutters
For shop fronts / market entrances / garages
and cart docks
Fire-resisting, thief-resisting, space saving, smooth running, Waterloo
Steel Roller Shutters fulfil the exacting demands of modern industry.
Designed to any required dimensions, Waterloo (spring-balance)
Shutters available in hand-operated types, or with electric hoisting gears.
Built into every Waterloo Shutter are exclusive constructional
features developed over many years of research and experience.
A PRODUCT OF
WORMALD BROTHERS PTY. LTD.
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane. Townsville. Darwin, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Wellington. Christchurch. Auckland.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3490
Wednesday, January 1, 1947.
JINGLE BELLS, JANGLE BELLS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. EJ, Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; * Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria:- Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"POPULATE OR PERISH!"
It was recorded last week by a man in
“S. M. Herald’s” London office that “a
special N.S.W. mission” headed by a
State Minister had arranged for “a snip-
load of high-class emigrants from Britain
and Denmark.” People? No; “pedi-
gree pigs, sheep, stallions and Jersey
bulls.”
The necessity for this sort of immigra-
tion, repeated according to requirements,
is, of course, a commonplace among
Australian studowners. Without it, as
was long ago discovered, animals tend to
degenerate from standards maintained in
other countries, chiefly Britain, where the
natural and other conditions are very
different—to diverge from types, fail in
quality or stamina or in both. Under
the influence of climate and environment,
even good strains that have, as it were,
become native are apt to disappear.
There is an example in the racing game
to which so many Australians give so
much of their time and money. Before
he was bought by the Duke of Portland
Carbine, to Frank McGrath (doyen of
trainers and a very intelligent man) the
greatest of all racehorses, had several
seasons at the stud. There he sired Wal-
lace, La Carabine and a host of other
good horses, and Wallace, retired from
racing in his fourth year, became the
leading Australian sire of his time. Then
and in subsequent years you heard a
great deal of the Wallace blood. You
never hear of it now. But the Carbine
blood is still a force on the Australian
turf, having been renewed and kept strong
by importations of Carbine stock from
England. Over the past 10 years
descendants of Carbine’s best English-
bred son, Spearmint, have won many
g6od races in Australia, but descendants
of his best Australian-bred son, Wallace,
have faded out of the picture.
Do the same influences which, unless
arrested, produce degeneracy among the
brute creation extend to two-legged
animals? Are the effects of climate and
environment showing among us lordly
Australians, and do we need selected im-
migration as a national policy on that
score alone, as well as on the score that
our-country, for upwards of a century
a lonely outpost of the white race, has
drifted into an age in which it is ex-
posed more than ever to the rising tide
of color? The answer must be in the
affirmative.
During the period, of Japanese con-
quest Mr. Churchill, who in emergencies
has shown an uncanny gift for divining
what is going on in the other fellow’s
mind, maintained with characteristic
energy of statement that the Japs would
never try to invade Australia in force. Not
only did events prove him right, but in a
Washington dispatch to a Sydney Sunday
paper, the “Sun,” it is stated that “after
a year’s examination of war documents
in Tokyo and an extensive interrogation
of top Japs,” the Naval Analysis Divi-
sion of the U.S. Strategic Bombing Sur-
vey is convinced that “the enemy never
got round to planning invasion of the
continent.” But “Labor” was so fearful
of invasion that it maintained huge idle
mainland forces, weakened only by a dis-
graceful desertion rate, for years after
the thing had become impossible. Still
under the impulse of its scare, it became
a rapid convert to large-scale immigra-
tion. Mr. Calwell still professes to be
enthusiastic about it and to be hurt be-
cause Britain won’t (i.e., can’t) let him
have all the shipping he says he wants.
But his colleague and friend Mr. Ward
has been heard to utter the old provincial
cry that not a single immigrant should be
brought to Australia until every Aus-
tralian is in a steady job. And that will
never happen, for there have always been
unemployables and won’t-works in Aus-
tralia and always will be.
There are parts of the continent, such
as Swanland, the coastal lands from the
Leeuwin round to Cape Howe, the moun-
tain country in Victoria and N. S. Wales,
the Riverina and, indeed, the entire
Murray Valley, which seem destined to
be the habitats of a great people. And
the interior, with its dry heat, breeds a
fine stamp of manhood and womanhood.
From the bush came most of the 1939-45
V.Cs., who were not all Australians. But
of the western, northern and eastern sea-
boards, from Carnarvon to Sydney, one
cannot be so confident. In any case the
nation should always remember that it is
living in a part of the world in which
climate encompassed a colossal decline
and fall; in which the aborigines, our
own and those in the islands to the north
and north-west, from the Sumatrans and
east across the oceans to the Peruvians,
contributed nothing to the march of mind
and, without exception, fell an easy prey
to invaders. They were all easy-going
peoples whose favorite recreations were
dancing, gambling and looking at pic-
tures. Some of them have always been
able to dive and swim quite as well as
our young barbarians who gambol in the
surf, resting from their exertions by lying
flat on the sand for hours, too tired even
to read.
Sydney, “the first flush of the tropics”
in its “blood,” as the poet sang, has be-
come the headquarters of the Communist
conspiracy. The ringleaders are mostly
immigrants. There are no men of parts
among them, and their support in the
unions they have marked for conquest,
as a preliminary to other conquests, has
been contemptible in point of numbers;
nevertheless they have succeeded all along
the line, or nearly so. Even Catholic
“Labor” members and union officials
have accepted their supremacy, though in
Europe Catholicism and Communism are
having a mortal struggle; and the Com-
munist offer of an alliance at referen-
dums and elections has found “Labor”
a consenting party, abject when “Labor”
acquiesced in the Communist, boycott of
Dutch shipping and of Australian trade
with the Dutch East Indies in the interests
of “our Indernesian comrades.”. Here
and there Labor politicians, notably Mr.
Keon in Victoria and Mr. Maloney in
N. S. Wales, have strenuously opposed
the Communist conspiracy, but they have
received no support from the heads of
their party. Mr. Maloney, indeed, not-
withstanding his services to his party and
country, was refused the “Labor” nomi-
nation for the Newtown Assembly seat.
Has climate contributed to tiffs “Labor”
inertia and cowardice? The point is
worth considering.
In all countries where whites have con-
quered colored peoples, a tendency to
revert to aboriginal ways, and even abo-
riginal appearance, has been noted by
anthropologists. In Australia, the abo-
riginal attitude to the wife and mother
as a drudge and beast of burden, a white
gin, has become painfully evident, especi-
ally in union practice. In all the pro-
posals for reducing working hours to 40
a week, with 36 hours as a hoped-for
sequel, the white woman has been left out
of reckoning. It is the same with all the
transport and fuel strikes. For the men
they are just holidays, and “larks” ; for
the womenfolk of the strikers, no less
than those indirectly concerned, they
are tragedies.
This aboriginal attitude to women is
extended to nurses, noblest of their sex,
and with an unsurpassed record in the
wars in which Australia has been en-
gaged. How fine these girls looked at
the head of the processions of men home
from the wars! How mercilessly they
have been sweated, even in States whose
Governments have drawn millions of easy
money from Government lotteries, under
the pretence that hospitals and hospital
staffs would derive the benefit! Only
now, when there is a shortage of nurses
in all States, is an attempt being made
to recruit hospital staffs by giving nurses
an approach to the pay and working
conditions freely accorded to jam- and
pickle-factory lizzies. The treatment of
nurses is a black stain on the record of
“Labor” Australia, and that of “Labor”
Governments in particular.
Lottery offices are dingy features of the
Australian scene. They make Australian
cities, Brisbane and Sydney in particular,
look like the capitals of “Spiggoty” re-
publics. Realising that easy money is
dearly bought on the moral plane, and
that lottery-crazed communities reject
war and security loans, Britain, Canada,
New Zealand, South Africa and the
United States outlaw lotteries. In the
English-speaking world they are to be
found only in Eire, a backwash peasant
country, and four “Labor” States, with a
fifth State doomed to have them, if
“Labor” gets its way.
The “Labor” and “Labor”-union aim
is to make the Australian people work-
shy, and there are employers who are
willing to meet “Labor” organisations at
least half-way. Already four weeks’ annual
holidays has become the rule in the news-
paper industry, which means, among
other things, that working journalists will
never be able to establish newspapers and
periodicals (had four weeks been compul-
sory in 1880 there would never have been
a Bulletin), and the contagion is spread-
ing. Already the gasmen in four States
are demanding four weeks, and the
Sydney tramwaymen, whose Govern-
ment “enterprise” is being run at a loss
of about £50,000 a month, have put in a
claim for five weeks. Here again the
womenfolk will not share in these boons
or in the others that will follow as the
night follows the day.
Nowadays newspapers are much of a
muchness. They have ceased to have any
political influence, and, though opposed
to “Labor,” are mortally afraid to tackle
it For the most part their staple illustra-
tion is a photograph of a girl in a G-
string, and horseracing is their principal
topic, with bookmakers (illegal in New
Zealand, Canada and the United States,
and tolerated but not encouraged in
Britain) among their idols. Bookmakers
seem to run Sydney.
Eight years ago the two Sydney morn-
ing papers were hot for war on behalf of
dear old Czechoslovakia, together with
intervention in Spain and China, all with-
out the offensive preliminary of national
service—advocacy of that would have
been bad for circulation. The war came,
and the British Empire and the United
States won it. We beat Italy, but lost
Egypt and are losing the Sudan. We beat
Japan, and have lost India and are losing
Burma. We beat Germany, and the Rus-
sians became masters of eastern Europe
and returned to Port Arthur and Darien,
their further imperialistic progress having
been arrested only by the fact that, as in
the past, they have contrived to make
themselves hated everywhere.
These developments and those which
will flow from them have affected, and
will affect, all our lives. Already U.N.0.,
of which Australia is a constituent mem-
ber and in which colored peoples are in
the majority, has taken upon itsfelf to
interfere in the domestic concerns of
South Africa in respect of its treatment
of its Indian citizens. From this it is
only a step to interference in the domestic
concerns of Australia in respect of its
refusal of “black, brown and brindle”
immigration. The call comes to us to
drop our silly fratricidal strife and our
gambling craze; to outlaw the Communist
conspiracy; to study and counteract
climatic influences ; to go in for scientific
and large-scale immigration, and to invoke
the assistance of the English-speaking
peoples to the end of preserving this
country for the white race. If we con-
tinue to behave as if nothing has hap-
pened in the world since 1901 we shall
lose our White Australia, atom bomb or
no atom bomlj.
Crisis Year.
This New Year’s Day brings in what
promises—or threatens —to be a crisis
year for the world. By the time another
New Year comes round, there should be a
much clearer view of What lies ahead.
Achievements in 1946 were the draw-
ing-up of the peace treaties for the
countries which backed the wrong horse,
or horse-and-mule team, in Europe ; the
formation of an international zone at
Trieste, and a .certain strengthening of
the U.N.O. establishment. This last
wound up its year-end proceedings in New
York with something very like a con-
fession of futility, the thumbing of its
variegated nose in the geographical
direction of Franco. But it did grow a
little in the course of the year.
Like the League, U.N.O. has its almost
fanatical champions, though not nearly so
many of them as yet. It is still possible
to speak with normally doubtful reser-
vations regarding it without being abused
for heresy. There is not the fantastic
crop of U.N.O. Unions to match those
of the League ; organisations which trans-
lated their earnest hopes into accom-
plished facts, thence to pacifist dogma,
and then into acceptance of unprepared
defencelessness, nothing else being needed
with the chatter-house in Geneva glorified
as “the cornerstone of our foreign policy.”
That political catchcry of a decade or
more has now been echoed by Mr. Bevin:
“Britain has decided to construct the
whole of her future relationships with the
world on the basis of U.N.0.” ; but this
time there is the vital difference that, in-
stead of not being present, the U.S.A. is
not only in U.N.O. but is the strength
and the home of U.N.O.
The U.S.A., too, is a pledged all-in
supporter of the League’s successor; so
if U.N.O. fails the fault will be else-
where': the U.S.A. will remain, and
hence, to make the logical reading of
Mr. Bevin’s statement, Britain and that
country will be together still. Mr. Bevin
pointed to that same happy conclusion in
his reference to one of the two major
issues, awaited decisions on which make
1947 a crisis year: “Great difficulties
have arisen in determining Germany’s
future, but a practical beginning has been
made by the fusion of the British and
American zones.” That fusion and the
American-British all-in support off
U.N.O. have historical significance. The
sort of open military alliance envisaged
by Mr. Churchill never had any prospect
of being established as a peace-keeping
arrangement, but in the two world wars
mutual danger brought it about, and
mutual danger is having the same" effect
now.
The all-in support of U.N.O. could
have come about in any case, but tff|
fusion of the American and British zones
for the management of Germany is a
direct and certainly not a premature
answer. “Everybody,” Mr, Bevin said,
“has heard allegations that we have
joined too closely in policies with the
United States that relations with Russia
are not so close as they should be, and
that this may lead to another world war.”
My answer to this is that Britain brings
her'mind to bear on every problem on its
merits. She does not tie herself to any-
body, except in regard to her obligations
under the U.N.O. Charter.
Unless, the Foreign Secretary must logi-
cally have added, the merits of the case
demand such action as that taken in
Germany.
That is the first of the two major
issues on which the crisis peak must be
passed safely this year if 1948 is to come
surely in under the sign of Peace. On it,
in fact, the other major issue—dis-
armament really depends, for if the
Foreign Ministers, when they meet in
Moscow in March for “the great test
.... the real problem of Germany,”
should come to an agreement satisfactory
to all, then disarmament could hardly
help but follow as a matter of course. The
“great test” in Moscow will be whether
the American-British fusion of zones is
to spread over all Germany, and the
control of that country and what is called
its “re-education” —which Mr. Bevin has
said will take at least a generation—is ..to
be a joint affair, open to the observation
of the world, and rightly a U.N.O. re-
sponsibility, or whether the fusion is to
spread in another direction ; the security
direction of a bloc of natiohs forced to
combine against an exposed aggressor.
The fusion that has already taken
place was not a matter of accident or
mere convenience. Both Britain and
America managed their zones separately
so long as it was possible for extreme
patience to give the other war-time
partner’s intentions the benefit of a
doubt. Their joining together, in advance
of the March Foreign Ministers’ Con-
ference in Moscow, notifies that even
patience such as they have shown has its
limits. It amounts to an endorsement
of a report made by “America’s most
influential Protestant theologian,” Dr.
Niebuhr:
A trip through Europe, which brought -
v me to the very boundary which separates
Russia from the West at both Berlin and
the Czech border, has convinced me that
the Russians are not, and will not be,
satisfied with any system of Eastern Euro-
pean defences, but are seeking to extend
their power over the whole of Europe.
On the Moscow conference that
greatest of all world issues today will
depend: whether it is to be settled by
agreement, in which Russia will call a
halt to Hitler-like aggression and be
satisfied with the more than ample
security it already has; ‘of whether
the pattern for Europe is to be Peace
with a drawn sword, with war eventually
certain, and disarmament meanwhile
everywhere not even approachable. “It is
a very tragic thing,” the American
churchman’s report added, “to wade
through blood and spend the treasures of
a generation in order to overcome one
tyranny and then be faced with another.”
No one close to the situation seriously
believes that Russia intends to let go of
her part of Germany. Why should she?
She has an excellent plan for conquering
the whole of Germany ideologically from
the vantage point of the part she dominates
by occupation. She has a better chance of
doing that in a divided Germany than in a
united one. As a divided Germany sinks
into economic misery, Russia hopes to con-
quer her ideologically by attributing the
miseries to capitalistic exploitation.
If the Moscow conference in March
does nothing else it should finally ex-
pose the Russian intentions. By the time
the Foreign Ministers are through the
signpost for the future should be well
and truly in view. Failure to reach a
settlement will bring the dread message
that Russia, from whatever cause, has
drawn on Hitler’s mantle, and that at
some stage in the future will have to be
met by force. Mr. Bevin, on his return
to Britain, was reported to have declared:
“I am more hopeful now than I have
been since I became Foreign Secretary.”
He was- Referring to the prospects of
U.N.0., bqjt it will be more to the point
if his hopes are justified at Moscow.
The future of Germany, to be decided,
or at any rate discussed, is in itself a
minor issue: the real issue is whether
agreement can be reached regarding that
country, sincer' success or failure in that
will show clearly whether this crisis year
is the beginning of a great time of
peace for the world, or whether that
time has not yet come as a blessing to
mankind. It is a great deal to be in
the hands of a few men at Moscow ; but
for good or ill the crisis peak is now
looming there.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Forgotten Men.
“Ek Dum”: The daily press had little
space to spare for the dreadful story of
what happened to the men of Sandakan,
as told before the War Crimes Tribunal
in Tokyo on December 18, and no doubt
“Labor” politicians have even less incli-
nation to ponder the facts as related by
Warrant-Officer Hector Stipcewich, of
Newcastle, one of the few survivors of
the awful ordeal.
The w.-o. said that of the 2900 British
and Australian prisoners who were sent
to Borneo in 1942 only 536 were able to
walk when <the Japanese retreated in
May, 1945. The Japaneie burnt the
Sandakan camp, and none of the sick
left behind in hospital was ever seen
again. They apparently were burned
alive. The w.-o.’s own group of 50, he
said, were all hospital cases before the
retreat march began, and every night
some dropped out and were left behind.
He and his mates learned later that all of
these were murdered. When Ranau was
reached after the horrible trek of 26
days, only 13 of the original 50 were
alive.
War historians may address themselves
to the question, on which “Labor” is very
silent, of why a desperate effort was not
made at rescue after the escape of
Major Steele and his men provided evi-
dence of the weakness of, the Sandakan
defences.
Mortal Struggle.
In the fierce race for circulation the two
Sydney morning papers are watching one
another with the intensity of their favorite
jockeys whose mounts are approaching
the home turn. And, apropos of jockeys,
the “D.T.” beat the “Herald” by engaging
two jockeys as substitutes for one of those
“columnists” whose efforts have added
new horrors to journalism. Then it got
Mr. Menzies to come in with a contribu-
tion after the jockeys. This ought to
show that fellow Menzies how relatively
insignificant he and his old politics are.
Then there are these “Find the Ball”
competitions, and if you don’t send six-
pence you’re out. Here, after fancy
manoeuvring in the straight, the “Herald”
rolled home with a first prize of £1506
155., the “D.T.” having to come in labor-
ing with a mere £1474 4s. Was the
“D.T.” discouraged? It was not. With a
desperate run in the second heat it
defeated the “Herald” by one publishing
day and a first prize of £2743 155., the
“Herald’s” effort realising a mere £1703
10s. If it occurred to Granny to chip
in another £l2OO or £l3OO she resisted
the temptation like the game old girl
she is and retired licking her wounds
Meanwhile newspapermen not in the
secret are wondering what the “Find the
Ball” business will cost the Great Dailies
before it is all over and how many
threats of lawsuits will have been received
from persons claiming to have sent in the
same solutions as the advertised winners.
Never let it be thought that either of
these mighty organs is neglectful of litera-
ture and its consolations. It occurred to
both at the same time—there has been a
queer simultaneity in all their stunts
since they ran tickets of “outstanding
candidates,” nearly all of whom crashed,
some with the loss of their deposits,
against Menzies —to offer prizes for
novels. In this field the “Herald” is
leading with awards of £2OOO, £lOOO and
£5OO for what the young lions of the
review department certify as clean, sweet
and true portrayals of Australian life
and character. If you are incredulous,
as people are apt to be in these matters,
here are extracts from their reviews:
No. 1. —The story of adolescent Rowena
Darcy In the third chapter Rowena
meets Tommy Mandel, a shallow, emotion-
ally brittle young Jew Tommy became
a father in one frustrated episode in a
park, his small mind disappointed by the
first evidence of sex. Rowena, driven in
turn to an abortionist, went alone to
Murphy-street. Outside the drunken crew
of a Dutch vessel roistered and rioted
through Surry Hills, committing dark
crimes in dark streets. A savage kick
caused such internal injuries that she did
not have to worry about bearing Tommy
Mandel’s child By the time she met;
Charlie Rothe she was ready for love again.
Charlie was partly aboriginal. “She felt
for Charlie’s lips with her own. ‘You’re
the first man I’ve ever had,’ she breathed.”
There are other characters, of course;
among them “Delie Stock, owner of
several houses of magdalenes, who gave a
hundred pounds to the Catholic Church” ;
Lick Jimmy, the Chinaman, and “genteel
and middle-aged Miss Sheily,” who had
an “illegitimate cretin son whom she
flogged with a knotted electric flex.” But
enough of No. 1, “the best novel pro-
duced in Australia of recent years.”
No. 2.—Mostly about Frankie McCoy,
a bookmaker (“Frankie has a mother”),
Margie and Myra. Frankie “used to meet
Margie, ‘the same place, the same time,’
which became the symbol of her betrayal”;
the other lady he met “in the long grass
in the thick shadows behind the Art Gal-
lery, where Myra did not say no one night
but did say no on the night when Frankie
McCoy murdered her” The writer does
not miss a trick; the action comes to a
most complex and delicately contrived
climax With rage and mortification
Myra refuses herself to McCoy, and when
he persists she bites him savagely. Mc-
Coy suddenly loses his self-control and,
full of bad whisky, strangles her in a
struggle to possess her, and bashes her
face to pulp with his fist. The treatment
of this scene is wonderfully convincing.
Had enough of city life and character?
Then away to the bush, away!
No. 3. —The story tells of Garth Harris,
a boy of 14. On the long journey to the
station the family stays a night with Flora,
and Jean, a child though she still is, cyni-
cally offers to share Garth’s bed. Shocked,
the boy is nevertheless excited. His
memory of the incident endures and grows
more vivid There is a tremendous scene
when Garth comes upon Kevin and Jean
bathing together naked All this while
the gentle sensitive Shirl is secretly in love
with Jack, a new jackeroo. It is a major
tragedy when Shirl falls victim to Sims,
a brutish rabbiter, and is forced by the* in-
escapable conventions of the bush to be-
become his wife... .Ultimately Jean moves
tor Sydney, where Kevin and Garth attend
a party of which she is the moving spirit.
There is doubt afterwards which of the
two is the father of her coming child. .
On the day these lucubrations appeared
strange and violent noises issued from a
certain cemetery. The local theory is that
they were caused by departed generations
of Fairfaxes turning over severally and
then at the same time.
ONE POTENTATE TO ANOTHER.
“The legislative power of the Commonwealth shall be vested in a Federal Parliament which
shall consist of the Queen, a Senate and a House of Representatives The executive
power of the Commonwealth is vested in the Queen and is exercisable by the Governor-
General as the Queen’s representative.” —Constitution Act.
The Old Queen; “We are not amused!”
Reading for Eisenhower.
Compared with the publicity they were
given in Canada and the U.S.A. the
Canadian spy investigations and findings
had a curiously small airing in Australia.
Yet, since the same fifth-column could
be just as dangerous here, the digest of
the Royal Commission report specially
made for General Eisenhower would be
a valuable addition to all sorts of libraries.
The Commission’s full report ran to
733 pages of salient facts, and a general
inference drawn was that it was con-
densed by order so that it could be dis-
tributed in handy form among U.S. Army
officers. The digest covered the objec-
tives of the Soviet spy ring and the
methods used in obtaining information on
military secrets. It emphasised this dis-
turbing feature: —
Perhaps the most startling single aspect
of the entire- fifth-column network is the
uncanny success with which the Soviet
agents were able to find Canadians who
were willing to betray their country and to
supply to agents of a foreign Power secret
information to which they had access in
the course of their work, despite oaths of
allegiance, of office and of secrecy which
they had taken.
It is not by any means the first time
in history—and in British history—that
subjects have placed what is now termed
an “ideological” loyalty ahead of loyalty
to country. Nor is it at all unusual that
the ones doing so should be men of high
standing in the community:
Many of the Canadian public servants
implicated were persons with an unusually
high degree of education... .There is no
evidence that monetary incentive played an
important part in the original motivation.
On the contrary, the evidence is over-
whelming that the original motivation was
a product of their political ideology and «pf
the psychological conditioning received in
the study groups.
There is nothing whatever new in this ;
it is all as old as the world. But it
should mean—as it now does in Canada,
and in the U.S.A., also —that where there
is cause for suspicion, not merely on
Communist but on fellow-traveller
grounds, there is sound reason for con-
tinuous watchfulness. h
And Now It's Transport.
“Nationalisation for nationalisation’s
sake” seems to be the only reason for the
British Labor Government’s determination
to “take over” railways and road-haulage,
having already “taken over” the Bank of
England, coalmines and Cable and Wire-
less.
Nowhere in his speech on the second
reading of the latest of the litter of
“nationalisation” hills did the Transport
Minister advance a practical argument
for the proposal. His claim that by re-
turning a Labor Government the British
had “endorsed the nationalisation prin-
ciple” has a familiar ring to Australians,
who’ve frequently had it sprung upon
them to excuse unexpected and high-
handed sectional legislation. And his
contention that transport nationalisation
is necessary to supply “sparsely-popu-
lated rural districts with the transport
they need” has been worked to death
here. It must have made Ruskin turn
in his grave.
Australian Governments have learned
that legislation won’t stop modern road-
and air-transport development, though it
may temporarily slow it down. The next
20 years will see revolutionary develop-
ments in road and air carriage of goods
and people throughout the world. The
British may look forward to being loaded
with a huge Government undertaking
which, outmoded and superseded, could
inflict upon them a vast eternal interest
bill, and become in war-time, as it was in
Australia, a menace to the national
safety.
In the meantime hardship will be the
lot of many beneficiaries, pensioners and
superannuated persons and bodies
hitherto dependent on railway shares.,®
W. S. Morrison has instanced numerous
cases. Some of them:
Compensation on stock-exchange values
is wrong, since railway shares are largely
trustee shares, rarely coming on the market.
Average overall reduction of income will
exceed 45 p.c. Eleven London hospitals,
holding £860,000 in railway stocks, will
suffer a heavy fall in income. One family
road-transport concern with annual net
profits of £19,000 will have to be content
with £3750. A smaller concern will drop
from £1747 to £244.
Cities like Preston and Bristol are to
lose their municipally-owned docks and
receive in compensation about half their
value. The Church of England will lose
about £200,000 a year on its railway in-
vestments. And countries like Argentina,
where British capital is heavily invested
in railways, may take the precedent
offered by the Attlee Government, assume
control of their railways and fix their own
rates of compensation,
London “Times,” hitherto very favor-
ably disposed to Mr. Attlee’s Govern-
ment, is in revolt on the railway project.
It wants to know how the measure will
contribute to the dheapness and efficiency
of transport, what degree and kind of
technical reorganisation is planned, how
rates are to be fixed and how effective
transport co-ordination will be achieved.
It remarked rather acidly that these ques-
tions were unanswered when the Minister
ended his speech. Similar questions have
been answered in Australia, which has
seven Government railway systems, none
of them really solvent, the answer being
a lemon.
•"Oo'l 'Ave a Ticket?"
From “No Sale”:
In lottery-cursed Sydney you may see these
days ticket-sellers of a peculiarly raucous ana
importunate type standing on the edges ot
pavements. They shout in hoarse accents:
“’Go’s fer ther lucky thirteen? Don’t pass
yer luck!” The tickets bear the printed legend
“Six-Hour Day Art Union: Proceeds in Aid
of Trades Hall Building Fund and Literary
Institute.” And the prizes, said to add up to
£4289 11s. 9d., range from “a pair of modern
semi-detached cottages” to £1 handouts. There
is no suggestion on the ticket that there is any
limit to the number of sales. A ticket bought
on Christmas Eve was numbered 476,550; it
the Lottery Act is complied with, equivalent
to £23,827-worth of tickets sold.
Sydney has a Trades Hall, a large, rambling,
dirty building which looks as if it were owned
by a slum landlord. While the necessity for
a clean modern structure is admitted, the need
for getting the funds by means of another
dingy lottery is not. It is a case for self-help
and for drawing on the bank balances of unions
subscribing to the Trades Hall, some of which
are Big Business.
The Ironworkers, for instance, have bought
Nock and Kirby’s store in lower George-
strect at a price which will leave little change
out of £lOO,OOO by the time it has Aeen
equipped to the Communist taste.
N.S.W. unions are required to render finan-
cial statements annually to the State Indus-
trial Registrar. Some of them never do, and
the incomplete reports themselves are always
at least 18 months old. In the last year on
record 186 organisations registered annual re-
ceipts of £754,380, of which a whole £98,127
was paid out in benefits. Other expenditure
worked out at £1 per member—£626,7ss, giving
a surplus 0f.£30,000. There was then £706,537
stacked away, and by this time it should have
increased to £BOO,OOO. Yet to build a Trades
Hall and a “Literary Institute” —perhaps
a euphemism for “Communist Propaganda
Bureau” —while owning a huge block of land
worth perhaps £lOO,OOO or more, the “move-
ment” feels constrained to dredge further tens
of thousands by appealing to the credulity and
acquisitive instincts of a public which already
feeds a multitude of parasites battening on
a variety of forms of gambling. And all with
the approval of the Hon. McKell, who has not
denied —neither he nor his friend and patron
the Right Hon. Chifley—that he is to be the
King’s representative at Canberra.
A Leftist Goes to Low.
On a case which deserves more notice
than it has received in Australia:
Doctrinaire Socialists, like their Communist
blood brothers, are seldom noted for their sense
of humor, and Professor Harold Laski is no
exception. Had he possessed the saving gift ot
the power to laugh at himself he would not
have lost his temper when heckled at an elec-
tion meeting, or having lost it would not have
brought a libel action against newspapers re-
porting the meeting.
At the time of the British general election
Laski was chairman of the Labor party’s
National Executive. On June 16, 1945, he
addressed a meeting in the market-place at
Newark and was heckled by one Wentworth Day,
who, on his own admission, “attended the meeting
for the purpose of heckling.” The Newark
“Advertiser” spoke of “lively exchanges” be-
tween the two, and referring to Laski’s reply
to a question fired at him by Day, “why he
had openly advocated ‘revolution by violence’
during the war,” published these words:
As for violence, he continued, if Labor
could not obtain what it needed by general
consent, “we shall have to use violence even
if it means revolution Great changes
were so urgent in this country, and if they
were not made by consent they would be
made by, violence, and, judging by the
temper his questioner had displayed, he
would be perfectly naturally one of the
objects of violence when it came.
The professor issued writs for li.bel against the
“Advertiser” and other papers which had
printed similar reports. The case went before
the Lord Chief Justice and a special jury of
four. Defendants pleaded “fair and accurate
report... public benefit and good faith ”
Witnesses who had been in the market-place
swore ( a ) that they had heard the alleged re-
marks, and ( b ) that they had not. The defencp
read extracts from Laski’s books to prove
“that he had been saying that sort of thing
over and over again for years,” and plaintiff’s
counsel read extracts from a book by Day in
which Laski was referred to as “a garrulous
little' petrel of Socialist politics dressed in
a tight-fitting, hip-slinky overcoat of the sort
that dance-band leaders wear.”
Summing up, the Lord Chief Justice said; —■
Heckling at a political meeting was part
of the fun and he would be sorry to hold
that it should not be reported. Although it
was really a matter of law for him, he ,
would ask the jury to say whether they
thought it a matter of public concern and
benefit that the heckling should be reported.
Although a person should not be thin-
skinned at election times, he was not on that
account to have words attributed to him
which were not true. On the other hand,
if the report, though in condensed form,
accurately represented what that person
had said he could not complain.
The Chief Justice pointed out that if the
professor had shown temper he was so entitled
—the questions had been calculated to raise
his temper.
But if he had used the words alleged,
it was nothing to the point to say that he
had been trapped into using them. The
whole point of going to a meeting as a
heckler was to trip up the speaker. What
else did a heckler go there for?
After 40 minutes’ retirement the jury found
for the defendant newspaper, with costs, adding,
in reply to the question asked by the C.J., that
reporting of heckling at political meetings is a
matter of public concern. The bill the humor-
less professor has to foot is a hefty one —
£15,000 is one estimate. Sympathisers in
Britain are trying to get a fund going to help
him out, but so far there has been no sugges-
tion of a bob-in fund from his Australian
fellow-travellers, always so eager to assist “In-
demesian” and other dusky “comrades.”
An amusing angle of the case is that Laski,
who has spent a lifetime pouring scorn on
effete British institutions, should seek the pro-
tection of the law he despises when Id's own
corns are trodden on. But that’s another joke
the Laski type couldn’t see.


Ifes, CRAVEN A
is Hhim/Utf fuHfooithy
CARRERAS LTD. V —OVER ISO YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Chifley issued a Christmas call for in-
dustrial peace. It was no “clarion call,”
an expression reserved by McKell for his
own Christmas message, which was as in-
spiring as cold cabbage; the P.M.
“pleaded, and was not heard”:
I ask trade-unionists to desist from
taking action which imposes great hardships
on the community, and particularly on
their fellow-workers, and which, if con-
tinued, could easily lead to unionists be-
coming an undisciplined rabble.
That wouldn’t happen if unionists and
the nation got leadership from the right
quarter, but of leadership the P.M. said
nothing. And the gas strikes went on in
Adelaide and Melbourne, the threat of a
repetition was issued in Sydney, trams
and trolley-buses were stopped in Hobart,
and Mr. Brown, the A.R.U. Communist,
addressed himself to the task of compell-
ing Victorians to “do some more walk-
ing.”
It is recorded that “no Cabinet Minis-
ters were in Canberra at Christmas.”
Nineteen of them, at least five more than
are necessary, and none at the seat of
government. How they must hate the
place!
A sign of the times in Victoria is that
affiliation with the Trades Hall Coun-
cil, put to a vote of jteacher-
unionists, as decided af their last annual
conference, has been crushingly rejected.
There were 1007 for and 2993 against,
5725 ballot-papers having been issued.
The N.S.W. teachers’ organisation has
for years sent delegates to the semi-
Communist Labor Council.
Dr. Evatt could find material for a
book in a vein he has not yet attempted
in the fortunes of the first and second
Ms.H.R. for Barton, which dates from
1922. No. 1, F. A. McDonald, a school-
teacher, beaten in 1925 by No. 2, T. J.
Ley, a lawyer, disappeared before the
result of the poll was declared and was
never seen again. No. 2, who had'oeen
State Minister of Justice before he got in
for Barton, lost in 1928 to a Tully— not
the fortunate Tully—and hit the breeze
for Europe. In that continent he was
swallowed up for 16 or 17 years, emerg-
ing now and then with some odd project
—one was for the running of lotteries in
the unhappy Baltic republics! Now, pro-
testing his innocence, he has been arrested
in London, with two younger men —one a
hire-car man—on a murder,-charge ; the
deceased was a Tobruk Rat.
Mr. Tully, the great N.S.W. patron of
soldier-settlement (retired), from London :
On my way to England I spent some
weeks in America. I got the impression
that, in spite of its great wealth and pro-
gress, in spite of its achievements and de-
velopment, its wonderful cities like New
York and Washington, a mercenary feeling
permeated its everyday life, and a lack of
confidence in its political administration
was pronounced..
How infinitely better off we are in N. S.
Wales, with our wonderful lotteries and
strikes and blackmarkets, and our patient
soldier-settlers, who should all be accom-
modated (with six feet of earth, anyway)
by a.d. 2000.
Ross McDonald, a politician without
an enemy, has stepped down from the
leadership of the Westralian Liberals, and
his successor is another Ross—McLarty,
of Murray-Wellington, member of an
old Westralian family of farmers and
pastoralists. Like Ross McDonald, Ross
McLarty served in the First World War,
returning with a commission and the
M.M., and he was a V.D.C. battalion
commander in the last war, during which
his eldest son served in New Guinea.
From knowledge obtained as chairman
of a hospital board, McLarty roundly
declares that his. State is short of
hospital accommodation and' nurses.
It is,>of course, a lottery State,*like N. S.
Wales, where the more lotteries there
are the worse the hospital position be-
comes —though “Labor” Minister Barry
is sure lotteries would make all the dif-
ference in Victoria.
“Galenus”: Calwell missed a chance
of doing a Useful bit of emigration
obstruction in the case of the 16-year
Victorian girl sent to the U.S. by public
subscription for removal of a nail from
one of her lungs. Any one of at least
a dozen Australian surgeons could have
done the job equally well. As a Mel-
bourne surgeon commented, the donated
money would have been far better spent
in importing the latest model in bron-
choscopes ; Calwell might even have
arranged with his Customs colleague to
grant it admission free of duty. In addi-
tion to these two good deeds he would
also have saved the youngster from the
risk involved by travel in her condition.
Under Queensland’s Fish Supply
Management Act all catches of fish
and prawns have to be sent to pub-
lic markets for sale to retailers. None
may be sold direct to consumers, and
five fishermen were recently fined for
letting shopkeepers have prawns for bait.
With fish supplies short in previous weeks,
the board ordered the closing of the Bris-
bane market for ten days, December 20
to 30, which meant that, without re-
plenishments from the market, vendors
would be unable to carry stocks for more
than a day or two. And all to re-lay a
concrete floor! Lest any miscreant of a
fisherbloke should dare to sell some of
his catch vto seaside holidaymakers the
board detailed numerous myrmidons to
keep a sharp lookout for such crimes
and to ensure that the malefactors get
it in the neck properly, even if the catch
has to rot in the sun. It’s wonderful to
live in a “free” country under a “ ‘Labor’
Government.”
The most pathetic item in the Christ-
mas-week news —you could not escape it
in the press or the “national” radio—was
that Mr. Chifley was able to spend his
Christmas on his own hearth, and that
last Christmas he suffered the hardship
of spending his Noel in Japan with the
troops. Tens of thousands of Australians
have spent six or seven years without
seeing a Christmas at home and with-
out causing one per cent, of the excite-
ment engendered by Mr. Chiflef’s depri-
vation. Many of them had their anni-
versaries in front-line trenches.
For the second time in a couple of
months Dr. Van Hoffman, an American
scientist visiting the N.T., has asked in
the hearing of pressmen “Where are
Australia’s young men? Where is their
enterprise? There are no young men in
the Territory.” But who wants to sweat
in the Territory while he can live in
Sydney, have a five-day week of 40 hours,
dream of a 30-hour week and stand a
chance of winning one of three State
lotteries or a pick-the-team or find-the-
ball contest? And even if a fellow loses
his job there is always Commonwealth
unemployed-relief pay.
Adelaide “Advertiser,” with a nasty
reminder:
It has long been pointed out that this
country will face a prodigious problem if
and when the “iron road” is superseded.
For every Australian railway is publicly
owned and represents an enormous capital
debt upon which interest must continue
to be paid, whatever happens.
It was uttered as a sort of warning to
the British about their rail-nationalisation
scheme, but it applies with much greater
force to Ward and his rail-standardisation
nightmare.
After today visas are not required for
travel to and from England, Wales, Scot-
land, Northern Ireland and France and
Algeria. It is hoped to extend the free-
dom to other European countries. But
Australian motorists will cross State
borders without “permits” at their peril.
“Beware of loud speakers and loose
thinkers lest you become confused by
cheap substitutes for intelligence.. ..
Stand valiantly for truth at all times, be-
cause truth is the very essence of free-
dom.” Thus Queensland’s “Labor”
Premier Hanlon to school-leaving-age
children. Caucus and the union bosses
will certainly have something serious to
say to the man for spoiling future voting
material by /tactless, advice like that.
With the advent of 1947 comes the
necessity of fixing a date for the N.S.W.
Assembly election, and the inner group
in the State “Labor” junta has two
weighty problems to consider before
fixing it. The first is who will be “our
leader” if the King “asks” McKell to
become G.-G. There’s a big line-up of
possibilities, main qualifications appar-
ently being membership of the Sydney
Turf Club and the Rugby League, a
friendly interest in the dogs and the trots
and a general capacity for doing nothing
and taking a long time to do it. Second
question is who will fire the first blank
cartridge in the usual pre-election mimic
war against the Corns.
N.S.W. electoral officers—9o of ’em
—received urgent telegrams on Boxing
Day, summoning them to return to their
desks immediately. They might have
been excused for thinking there had been
a sudden dissolution of Parliament or
perhaps a mass resignation of members
desirous of claiming their pensions, but
it was nothing like that—merely that the
McKellys had fixed a date for their Bopze
Referendum, having passed the buck to
the electors. February 15 is the date, and
drinkers and non-drinkers are to decide
whether the hour for turning drinkers out
of the beer-shops is to be 6 p.m. (as at
present), 9 p.m. or 10 p.m. Voting will
be compulsory and will be on the prefer-
ential system.
The plum duff digested and the Christ-
mas. dishes washed, Sydney housewives
were informed by West, State secretary
of the Gas Employees’ Union, that the
strike would be on again unless the
union’s claims were “speedily dealt with.”
Housewives in Melbourne, who are
threatening a sit-down strike on Parlia-
ment House steps, got gas for
Christmas Day only during “rationed
hours” ; in Adelaide they had it between
11 a.m. and noon. If the West state-
ment means what it says, what becomes
of the McKell “administrator” who was
put in charge of the Sydney gasworks
with orders to keep them going?
C. G. Latham, who succeeded the ill-
fated Bertie Johnston as Westralian
Senator in 1942-43, is back in circula-
tion —this time as M.L.C Previously he
was M.L.A. for York, leader of the
Country party, Minister of Lands (1930-
33) and leader of the Opposition. York
was mainly responsible for his election to
the Upper House, which is a comfortable
place for an ageing Digger; the money
good and nothing much to do.
“Pravda” was in a dreadful state when
Dr. Kurt Schumacher, leader of the
German Social Democratic party in the
British zone, was invited to Britain
to talk things over. Moscow has been
host to hundreds of foreign Communists
like Thorez, Broz-Tito, and the Italian
Togliatti. The German, was in a Nazi
concentration camp when Thorez turned
traitor and was erased from the list of
French citizens at the instance of the mild
Blum, now Premier again, this time by
election. According to the enraged
“Pravda” Schumacher “has been success-
fully splitting the working class in Ger-
many,” in other words, actively resisting
the Communisation of his stricken coun-
try, giving a lead which 80 p.c. of his
people have followed with their votes ; so
Schumacher is damned with the Moscow
equivalent of bell, book and candle, and
the British Government with him.
Being without guts the Sydney “ ‘Labor
Government” is going slow on its plan
for doing away with the 67 municipal
councils in the County of Cumberland,
and setting up obese parodies on local
government. Most of the threatened
mayors and aldermen revolted so ener-
getically that the “Government’s” heart
made the customary swift passage to its
boots..
Two things are essential to the well-
being of a country like Australia a
sound rural economy and a prosperous
middle-class. Drought and “controls
have heavily hit the first, and taxation is
settling both. Disciples of the “Golden
Age” of socialism will eat fruit
when there are no more farmers to “con-
trol” and no more middle-class to tax.
In 1938-39 Ceylon took £1,327,000-
worth of Australian goods and Australia
imported £840,000-worth of goods from
Ceylon. Last year the relative figures were
£6,950,000 and £5,056,000. But last year
was the first year of peace after a six-
year war which devastated Europe, cost
the world thousandc of merchant ships
and so dislocated trace generally that
any country which escaped the destruc-
tion finds yawning markets for its pro-
ducts. In the main, that accounts for
the increased Australia-Ceylon trade,
and it occurred without the assistance of
an “Australian Commissioner.” Never-
theless, one is to be appointed; a Frost.
When'G. M. Rio had to come out of
New Guinea in 1942 ahead of the Japs,
he failed to get into the A.1.F., so he
went hunting crocodiles in North Queens-
land. Presently he had worked up a
fair business with southern bootmakers
in croc, skins, 'and had heard that the
U.S.A. wanted skins. He applied for
permission to export them. The reply
was that he could go ahead provided he
could supply satisfactory evidence that
the animals from which the skins came
did not suffer from any contagious dis-
ease. Unable to persuade any vet. to go
round examining crocs, before they are
shot, the hunter has withdrawn to Papua
to manage a plantation, Ward permitting.
In their craze for racing and cricket
Australian dailies have ceased to report
Churchill’s speeches, although they are as
good as ever. In one, delivered in the
Commons on November 12, the brave
old man addressed himself to the situation
of the German people, and said, among
other things:
There must be an end to vengeance and
retribution. Some consideration should
always be given to ordinary people. Every-
one is not a Pastor Niemoller or a martyr,
but when ordinary people are hurled this
way and that, and when the cruel hands of
tyrants are laid upon them and vile systems
of regimentation are imposed and enforced
by espionage and other forms of cruelty,
there are great numbers of people who
will succumb. It is my hope that we should
presently reach the end of the executions,
penalties and punishments and, without
forgetting the hard lessons of the past, turn
our faces resolutely to the future.
Bevin had previously made an equally
moving appeal for “mercy, pity and
peace.” What a difference from the
Asiatic barbarism which came in with
the hordes from the steppes!
The British have provided another re-
minder of the miserable manner in which
senior Australian combat officers have
been treated by Canberra. All the lead-
ing commanders of the war already
having been jnade viscounts, England’s
oldest and most exclusive order of
chivalry—Knighthood of the Garter—
has been conferred on Viscount Alan-
brooke (Chief of the Imperial General
Staff), on Viscount Mountbatten of
Burma, on Viscounts Portal (head of
the Royal Air Force), Alexander and
Montgomery. Treatment of senior Aus-
tralian commanders has been disgraceful.
They have not even received the public
thanks of Parliament, much less any
honors or rewards. They are the only
active-service commanders in the world in
such a position.


P.C. CHIFLEY IN A TRAFFIC JAM.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“El V.”: One of the.strangest features
of the Stewart Dawson shooting case, in
which the young man involved was
sentenced to 10 years’ hard for
plugging a sozzled naval man with
an automatic at the S.D. Palm
Beach home, was the jury’s recommenda-
tion to mercy on the ground of the gun-
toter’s “youth.” He is 24, a year older
than Pitt when he became Prime Minis-
ter, the same age as Deakin when he re-
fused the Attorney-Generalship of Vic-
toria. And the “youth” himself was a
company-director, had been considered
old enough to hold a licence to carry
firearms and was mature enough to have
been appointed a J.P. (and that by
“Labor”) apparently a year before the
legal ' age. He was, also, two to seven
years older than a couple of young mur-
derers who were hanged in N. S. Wales
before “Labor” came in. And on the
day that he was convicted a lad of 17 was
found guilty of having toted and used a
firearm with freedom and irresponsi-
bility, He had operated against armed
police, instead of a barehanded reveller,
and he got 12 years.
♦ * % * *
“Bo”: The crescendo of verbal fury
which culminates in a burst of demoniac
frenzy as they flash past the finishing
post was, I hoped and believed, peculiar
to those who infest the ether with descrip-
tions of the Sport of Kinks, But I
reckoned without Test cricket. In the
Brisbane match the fourfer was accorded
the slightest rise in voice inflection, whilst
a wicket was given its due meed of con-
trolled excitement. Toward the close of
the Sydney Test, however, a very ordinary
hit for two was described in voices
bordering on hysteria. By the time the
Fifth Test is played the formerly soothing
voice which lulled one to sleep with “they
go through for an easy single” s will, I
fear, give to the shot that adds but one
to the score a flurry of horrific histrionics
which will plunge listeners into deeper
gloom than Kate Smith or the Andrew
Sisters could effect.
“Niloc”: Between race broadcasts on
Saturdays, annpuncers often have to
go through a contortion act which would
be an asset to any stage. Chief reason is
their habit of declaring which horse will
surely win the ensuing race. When the
winners are back in the enclosure, the
broadcaster has to make excuses for his
choice having apparently stopped some-
where about the half-mile to nibble the
grass. Star performer of these Saturday-
afternoon somersaulters was a chap who,
for want of something better to fill in a
couple of spare minutes, comnlented on
the M.C.C.’s match being played
at Newcastle. He said Hammond had
“had it” as a batsman and would be
a far greater asset to his team
if he took up bowling again. Wally must
have had a crystal set secreted in his cap,
for he scored 60 in the next half-
hour, including four fours from consecu-
tive balls. Did the announcfer bow with
apologies to his microphone? Not he.
He just told us he would like to be in
Newcastle to see Hammond’s excellent
form, then ordered us to smoke So-and-
so’s fags.
* * * ♦
“Philm”: Asked in a radio quiz for
the slang term for an English sailor, a
young woman was laughed out of the
studio for giving “kipper” as the answer.
If R.A.N, usage during the war counts
for anything she was right. “Jack
Tar,” the answer given by the quiz-
master, preceded “Tommy Atkins” into
obsolescence; and, though “Tommy”
survives, “Jack” has taken on a new
meaning. No longer a sailor, he’s now a
military copper.
* * * *
“Eve”: Gone are the days when I
considered myself well paid as accom-
panist to students at a shilling an hour.
Resuming this often - pleasant hobby
recently I upped the price to two-
bob. But I quit after the first experi-
ence. A King’s Cross couple answered
my advt, and I presented myself at their
flat the first morning full of enthusiasm.
He was a violinist, she a ’cellist. Trio-
work is my particular delight, so I was
in high spirits. After half an hour I
noticed their playing becoming more and
more ragged, and also that every now
and then one or the other of them slipped
behind a screen at the end of the room.
At last the violinist caught my glance and
laughed. Then, quite seriously, he said,
“We’re paying you two shillings an hour,
girl, so you can’t expect us to give you
a nip as well. You’ll have to bring your
“I didn't have a wink of sleep last night—the mattress is getting blunt."
own liquor.” I gave up in disgust; not
that I wanted the grog, but I felt I was
charging blackmarket for my piano-
playing.
* * * *
“Macnell”: A R.A.N. squadron re-
turning from Japan, cleared Tokyo Bay,
and as the destroyers leaped eagerly ahead
their leader signalled the cruisers plough-
ing astern. “Good-bye, girls. See you
in Sydney.” Half-way down the Pacific
the wind rose to gale force, increasing
to a cyclone. It lasted almost till the
big ships steamed through Sydney Heads,
when, from somewhere in the general
direction of Maoriland, a battered and
salt-caked line of destroyers hove tossing
over the horizon. From the flagship’s
halliards fluttered, gently reproving, the
signal: “The first shall be last, and the
last shall be first.”
* * « «
“Don”: Many amateur actors of a
generation ago will recall the play “Jane”
(“Oxmead,” B. 18/12/’46). It was much
in favor among village players its
performance by, say, a church amateur
body was a step to be taken in fear and
trembling. It concerns an eligible
bachelor, his fiancee, and a maid whom
he persuades to masquerade as his wife
during the visit of his trustee, who has
increased his allowance under the im-
pression that the el. bach, is married.
Unfortunately the el. bach, has mentioned
the imminent arrival of a family and his
efforts to borrow a family and the jeal-
ousy of the maid’s fiance, the butler, pro-
vide the usual complications of “naughty”
plays of the period, I played and pro-
duced “Jane” in places as far removed as
Townsville and Elwood (Vic.).
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I thought of letting
my youngster follow his inclination to
enter the medical profession, but the war
seems to have taken the edge off that
game. Take my case. My complaint—
it’s really a case for a specialist, but I
thought I’d help the local bloke along—
isn’t one that can be disposed of in one
visit. It’s complicated. But this young
quack, straight put of the army, scribbled
out a prescription and said, “This’ll put
you right in no time.” Didn’t even ask
to see me again. He was obviously in-
experienced, so I tried again. Same
result. Then I got on to an old doctor
and approached him confidently. But
he’d been in the services, too. “Here
you are,” he said, brusquely, handing me
a prescription. “Have this made up and
drink it. I know what you chaps are
like. Drink it.” Here was I prepared to
be doctored and the cows wanted to
cure me. If the profession persists in
that attitude it’ll soon be on the rocks.
Still, if my lad wants to make his mark
in the scientific world I won’t stop him.
But' there’ll be no tedious university
course with all that wearying and expen-
sive studying. I know a bloke who’ll get
him a job on the railways and introduce
him to some Commos. After that it’s up
to him. If he goes the right way about
it he’ll land a job where he’ll be bossing
scientists.
* * * *
“Wotcher”; Youngsters with un-
brushed teeth (“Eve,” B. 11/12/’46)?
Many years ago a touring dentist came
to our Queensland school. To my
brother’s class he said “Stand up the boys
who clean their teeth three times a day.”
Up stood a few champion liars, to re-
ceive much praise from the admiring
Mr. Fangs. “N6w stand up the boys
who clean ’em twice a day.” More hope-
fuls stood and received his approbation.
“And the boys who clean theirs only once
a day.” Most of the remainder arose.
“And now,” slowly and impressively,
“stand up the boys who never clean their
teeth.” Up rose my red-haired brother.
“Ah,” said Mr. Fangs; “now, son, open
your mouth wide and let the class see your
teeth,” He did —to expose a perfect set.
Fangs tried to regain lost ground; “And
you say you never clean your teeth!
Well, what does your mother feed you
on?” “Aw, we get plenty of meat and
vegetables and milk puddings and fruit
and stuff.” “Well,” said the dentist,
“Nature has given you excellent
teeth and it’s due to the choice of good
food your mother has given you that
you’ve kept ’em so far. But take my tip—
if you don’t look after them you’ll lose
them.” Reared under the same conditions
the other four of us had poor teeth,
frequent dentist bills and in middle age
“stores.” Brother, in the sixties, still has
his naturals, after not half the fastidious
care I fruitlessly gave to mine.
*** ’ #
“Nakhoda”: Noojee, the Gippsland
timber township which was wiped out by
bushfire in 1926 and again in 1939, with
great loss of life on both occasions, is
undaunted. Its 350 inhabitants recently
proposed to organise a raffle that must be
unique in Australian history. The sur-
rounding bush is to be combed for the
biggest live mountain - ash standing
amongst the ruins of former bushfires. It
is to be felled and brought into the town-
ship and raffled, the funds to be spent
on,further fire-protection measures. The
tree will then be milled and the winner
will have all the material necessary to
build himself a fine house. Noojee is
right in the centre of the mountain-ash
country, but so great was the devastation
wrought by the 1939 blaze that the mills
are handling only dead trees, 600,000,000
super-feet of fire-killed timber having
passed through the town in seven years.
There is still enough -in the burnt forest
to last them another three years.
* * * *
“Melbn”: St. Simeon Stylites, the
pioneer pole-sitter, had nothing on the
Melbourne holiday-maker, although
S.S.S. did it for a state of eternal beati-
tude. In Collins-street at 11.30 one night,
shortly before Christmas, I saw a long
row of sad-looking individuals of both
sexes and all ages squatting on the pave-
ment, “protected” from a dismal drizzle
by the last edition of tfie “Herald.” For
a moment I thought I was back in Mos-
cow in 1914, -when the homeless huddled
nightly round monuments and on the
steps of palatial buildings, but these
were merely average well-to-do citizens
waiting for the Tourist Bureau to open
next morning. By 9 a.m. the queue was
four deep and stretched half round the
Block.
* * # *
“M. Turlutu”; Annoying as Mr. Ded-
man’s clothing ukases still are, I admit
agreement in the matter of trouser turn-
ups. The only sound evidence put for-
ward in support of their revival has been
from criminal investigators, who have
occasionally obtained convicting evidence
from microscopic examination of the
fluff and other debris collected in them.
Knowledge of the fact will obviously
make any reasonably intelligent criminal
careful about keeping the insanitary
things clean, and even this remote merit
will be ended. Though I must admit
that on one particularly thirsty summer
afternoon in the long ago only the joyous
discovery of a whole golden jimmy o’
goblin in the trouser turn-up of a dandy
friend saved us both from a dessicated
end. He had lost it a week before and
scoffed at my Heaven-sent idea of look-
ing for it there.
* * ♦ ♦
“M cGI u m”: Reggie traded his
fountain-pen to a Jap civilian for six
bottles of fine old, three-star Chinese
brandy, distributed his haul among his
mates for convenient concealment and
marched home with the work party
dreaming of future affluence. However,
the liquor was discovered, and Reggie had
to admit ownership and take a bashing to
save his mates. Limping dejectedly back
to the hut he was J hailed joyously by a
cobber who proudly displayed a bottle
missed in the search. There was only one
thing to do. Off came the seal, out came
the cork and Reggie’s cup of sorrow was
full, as not brandy but water flowed into
his pannikin. Then he was ordered
back to the guardhouse, to be con-
fronted by an irate commandant
waving another open bottle. After
a few more cuffs and kicks he was
told to remove his property from
Taijo’s sight. Clutching his bottles
in aching arms he managed to
reach the hut, only to be grabbed
by a Taiwan guard.' The water changed
hands without protest and Reggie found
himself with 10 five-yen notes that the
Taiwan had thrust into his hand before
fading into the night. We never found
out what happened when the guard dis-
covered the hoax, but whenever we saw
him he looked sheepish.
* * * *
“Ken”: Wrapping machinery and parts
in cellophane (B. 18 /12 / ’46) is not new.
When Detroit automobile firms turned to
producing aero engines during the war,
they struck snags galore. Their engines
measured up to all the specifications, but
they just hadn’t the performance of their
twins from the regular aero firms. Ex-
perts called in pointed out that some of
the fault lay with the handling after
manufacture. One innovation they intro-
duced was the wrapping of completed
engines in an envelope of cellophane in
vfrhich was enclosed a small bag of
moisture-absorbent material a vital
necessity in the case of stock engines for
shipment to tropical areas,
* * * *
“T. 2”; Touching “Wanchai’s” par re
hackneyed jokes that bore banktellers (B.
11/12/’46), two of the most wornout
are heard in reply to the question “How
would you like it?” The lady who an-
swers, “Oh, in notes, please, once I change
a note I seem to spend it all,” seems to
expect a hearty laugh. The bloke who
says “It doesn’t matter,’ I won’t have it
long,” also thinks he has made a joke,
but it doesn’t sound funny to the teller
who hears it 20 or 30 times a day.
♦ * * *
“Uramao”; In Dunedin (M.L.) a
man sitting in his car was approached by
a stranger, who made some flattering
comments about the car and asked the
owner what he wanted for it. Not desir-
ing to sell he put an exorbitant price on
it. The would-be buyer asked for a trial
spin, took the wheel, was charmed and
said he’d buy it. On the run the owner
picked up his brother and they repaired
to a garage to get a receipt slip and
documents. These were signed by the
buyer; one brother looked on and the
Other’s mind was abstracted. When the
new owner had driven off the brothers
found that no money had been handed
over ; each had assumed the other had
received payment. Then began a furious
chase, but failure to overtake the car
obliged them to report the matter to the
police, who discovered that the buyer was
an escapee from a mental hospital. He
had driven back to the institution in
the car.
NOT TOO CLEVER.
“A Swiss newspaper, discussing our Mr. Chifley’s
life-story in an article entitled ‘From Engine-driver
to Prime Minister,’ remarks that he was preferred
to Dr. Evatt as Mr. Curtin’s successor because of
the political mentality of Australia, which springs
from a deep-rooted distrust of intellectuals.”
The word “Australia” calls for some correction;
But otherwise you’ll probably conclude
With me that here’s an accurate reflection
Of Labor’s immemorial attitude,
An obstinate unwillingness to venture, •
When points for Caucus’s decision wait.
Undue reliance on intelligentsia
To steer the ship of State.
Better the footplate of a puffing billy
(A post denied to academic gents)
To help a politician up the hilly
Ascent to Parliamentary eminence.
Better experience gained by those who’ve
travelled
Along industrial pathways such as these
Than all the scholarship of chaps who’ve
snavelled
Diplomas and degrees.
You who would qualify for Chif’s position
In years to come, take heed! Ilie dinkum
oil
Is never to incur the dark suspicion
Of being a cut above mere manual toil.
White-collar blokes will have their uses ever
While they’re contented to be party cogs,
But wake distrust when ranked a bit too clever
For sturdy demagogues.
A lot of learning’s not the most effectual
Way to some prized supremacy to mount,
And even being super-intellectual
Will sometimes prove of very small account.
Though you’re assured you have the sort of
reference
That’s bound the highest place for you to
wrench,
A skilled mechanic’s job may get the preference
Over the High Court Bench.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Uco”: Homes in which the radio
blares at full blast from dawn till mid-
night are a commonplace in every suburb,
and there seem to be people to whom
“wireless” has become a craving from
whose clutches they cannot escape. But
a family party I saw on Boxing Day
must have been outstanding among radio
addicts. They staggered out of St.
James station (Sydney) and joined the
crowd waiting for a Coogee tram. The
youngsters were equipped with buckets
and spades and other beach parapher-
nalia and Mum carried a huge hamper.
Dad’s load, fitted with straps for easier
carrying, was a large radio set and the
teen-aged son toted a car battery. They
had already travelled in a crowded electric
train and were prepared to fight their
way on to a packed tram, but were
apparently willing to put up with all that
inconvenience rather than forgo their
customary radio fare for one day. Or
perhaps they were going to do a bit of
S.P. business among the surfers.
* * * *
“W.O. Two”: Our adjutant was system
crazy. Few city offices were as well-
appointed with filing cabinets, card-
indexes, labelled trays and other gadgets
as was his orderly-room. Prize exhibit
was an immense corkboard manning-
chart which occupied almost the whole
of one wall. Pinned to it were about 300
small cards, each printed with the nurhber,
rank and name of a soldier. Alongside
each master card was a horizontal line
of other cards showing age, religion, next
of kin, medical and dental details and
other particulars. An assortment of
colored flags denoted whether the soldier
was present, on duty, sick,, absent at a
school, on leave, in boob or ack-willy.
The work of keeping the chart up to date
was terrific. The C. 0., a grumpy chap,
who disliked paper work and spent most
of his time in the field, viewed his adjut-
ant’s manning chart with barely con-
cealed scorn. His contempt was openly
expressed one hot day when he had to
more or less fight his way to his office
through the clerks working on the chart.
He summoned the adjutant to his sanc-
tum. “Captain Penpusher,” he roared,
“there’s too many damned shiny pants
fooling around that damned fancy jig-
saw or crib board you’ve got outside. It’s
our job to make soldiers of them, not
thumb tackers. Get every manjack of
them into the bullring this afternoon.”
* * * H=
“Plum”: In attempting to guess what
toy designers will think of next my imagi-
nation, to coin a phrase, boggles. The
boggling is caused by a toy known as the
“wetting doll,” invented, I should say,
by a medical student with a degraded
sense of humor and a passion for detail.
Complete with washable napkin, it was
demonstrated to me as “just the thing for
the little mother” by a shop-assistant who
displayed the blend of pride and embar-
rassed interest that distinguishes a man
who has just given his boy a model rail-
way. When I left the store I hoped I
had seen the last of the ghastly object.
Not so, unfortunately. An uncle with
a perverted mind has just presented one
to my daughter Prunella, aged two. I
have failed so far to pacify Mrs. Plum,
who, having got the child out of nappies
at last, finds her fortified by the horrid
example of the smugly wetting toy ready
and willing to begin all over again.
* * H= v
“Jasby”: One of the few things I
brought back from New Guinea, apart
from an abiding disgust with all writers
who have ever earned a dishonest living
by glamorising the tropics, is a Jap
abacus. No one has been able to show
me how to use it and the only one in
the house who can do anything with it
is the baby, who works out endless prob-
lems on the thing but refuses to tell
anyone the answers. But since reading
of a contest staged in Tokyo I’m going
to have him properly trained so that I-
can farm him out as a lightning
calculator. American occupation troops,
like myself, were apparently of the
opinion that the abacus was merely
a useful device for adding up
laundry bills without pencilling on
shirt-cuffs, but after they saw a Jap
expert pitted against a Yank with a
modern calculating machine they changed
their minds. At addition, subtraction and
division the abacus won hands down;
only in multiplication was the machine
able to show it any points. That’s the
sort of thing that runs up the suicide-
rate among calculating-machine sales-
men.
“’ Erbert , dear , sing that one again about ‘Blow the Man Down'”
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Old-timer
Bulletin prosers, is it? My initial effort,
l6, consisted of a gory tale of
the “dispersal” of an abo camp by
native police. The “Answers” column
of the following week bade me “Call
round and take your reeking offal away.”
Two years later, back from an islands
voyage in fore-and-aft sail, I sent a
bunch of pars and a short story, all coco-
nuts, coral, blackbirders, blue seas and
brown girls. With youthful conceit I
used an alias lest the “reeking offal”
might still offend editorial nostrils. To
my abounding joy they were all accepted
but one par, and on pay-day I collected
£2 12s. 6d. From it I bought a second-
mate’s uniform coat and brassbound cap
at a Lower George-street old do’ shop
and made a distinct hit therein at a party
thrown by an aunt for the homebound
sailorboy. Also a bottle of whisky for
uncle, which sent up my stock prodigi-
ously with that genial soul. That was in
1889, since when no page of the Bush-
man’s Bible has escaped my prosey in-
trusion.
at * ♦ *
“Rat-bag”: A beer keg can be a
dangerous animal. Recently in Chicago
a barrel exploded at a birthday-party and
liquidated the guest of honor. It recalled
the night when our sergeants’ mess cele-
brated V.-E. Day. Towards daybreak, the
secretary took out his books, weaved
through the figures, and declared that
from mess profits the lads could do the
honors to a free nine. The barrel was
duly rolled out, but was apparently
peeved at being disturbed so early in the
morning, for while one held the “spike”
in position, and his 14-stone cobber
brought the mallet down, the plunger was
knocked askew. Panic scene, with beer
squirting to the roof. In the confusion the
bloke holding the spike managed to get
it upright again, but he hadn’t removed
"Is that the store? Have you got any iron rolling-pins?”
his hand from its top when the mallet
whistled down again. This time the spike
was driven firmly into the keg. The brew
was of such octane that not until the fol-
lowing morning did the hero notice that
something was amiss with his knuckles.
The m.o.’s verdict was that six bones
had been shattered. The hand was back
in fine shape for holding glassware by
V.-P. Day.
* * * *
“Angus Mcj^ungstarter”: Mon, there’s
a gey fine industry waitin’ ready for Aus-
tralia if they loons o’ clurruks an’ poli-
ticians at Canberra dinna starrt their
interferin’ clamjamfries. Did yd no hear
o’ the shorrtage o’ bagpipes in bonny
Scotland? Weel, they canna mak’ ’em
the noo because they canna get canes for
the reeds frae Spain or ebony for the
chanters frae Africa. An’ here in Aus-
tralia are millions o’ sheep a’ ready an’
waitin’ wi’ their skins tae be made into
bags, square miles o’ sugar cane that
ocht tae mak’ gey sweet reeds, an’ hail
forests o’ bonny ebony wood nae further
awa’ than Papua. Mon, we’d corrner
the bagpipe marrket o’ bonny Scotland
in nae time and the wurrld as well. An’
juist luik at the defence value o’ suich
an industry in these daft days of atomic
bombs an’ roackets! If any fulish carls
ever tried tae send they things at us,
ane skirl frae a bonny pipe band wud
frichten them till they juist chased each
ither home again an’ blew the place a’
tae wee bitties.
Sc sc He , #
“C.Q.”: As a change from the
sophisticated art of Albert Namatjira and
Edwin Pareroultja an exhibition of the
primitive art of the Australian abo. is to
be held in London. A show of that kind,
sponsored by Charles Barrett, A. S.
Kenyon and Percy Leason, was held in
Melbourne in 1929; it came from a
cave in the Grampians, 200 miles from
Melbourne. The most prominent feature
was a collection of vermilion hands prob-
ably as old as some of the most treasured
old masters of Europe. They are said
by Basedow to be visiting-cards which a
guest deposited on the walls of the cave
by the simple process of filling his mouth
with red ochre, placing his hand on the
rock "'and spraying the color round it
The primitive Victorian abo, never got
far beyond that except for his conven-
tionalised designs of intimate subjects of
a very realistic nature.
* * * * *
“Hamfat”: Horses on the stage are
always liable to lead to trouble. There
was the ’bus horse which was all that
could be found to do the necessary busi-
ness in “Mazeppa.” When the hero had
been bound to the back of the “untamed,
fiery steed,” nothing could induce the
animal to move until a stagehand got a
brainwave. He banged a plank of wood
on the floor to simulate a closing door
and cried “Right!” The horse, having
heard its accustomed signal, moved off.
When the Mac Mahons were running
melodrama at the Sydney Lyceum the
great scene of one play was the heroine’s
attempt to ride across a bridge to find
aid for the hero. The bridge having
.been tampered with by the villains gave
way—a realistically thrilling event, well-
managed by the mechanists and the trick
pony employed on the job. Unfortu-
nately Dora Mostyn rolled off the mat-
tress placed to receive her fall. Her
reappearance on the stage was rather
spoilt when the audience noticed that
Dora, instead of being wet, was some-
what dusty. “Gripes, the cripk’s gone
dry!” remarked a wag in the stalls.
* * * *
“G.G.2”: Some time during T 2 a
homesick jackeroo on Warenda (W.Q.)
raised an argument. He claimed that by
hiring a car to catch a certain train at
Winton he could mesh with other trains
and go from Boulia to Sydney in seven
days. That argument spread like a bush-
fire. All over western Queensland bets were
laid, tempers frayed, fights almost started.
I don’t know if he ever did it, but I
thought of it the other day. I took my
daughter-in-law with her small chil-
dren to the ’drome at Eagle Farm, Bris-
bane. They, with 20 or 30 other pas-
sengers, were tucked in the belly of a
mechanical bird.' It was 3 p.m. when that
contrivance was air-borne. They stepped
out at Melbourne at nine that night.
Boulia to Sydney in seven days! I
wonder if they’re still willing to bet.
* * . * *
“Ellery”: Every morning from the ’bus
stop we saw “The Flying Pieman,” as we
called him, leap over his front fence and
tear down the West Hill road, while
over the crest of East Hill the ’bus for
town would appear and commence the
zig-zag run to the foot. As he tore down
the road bets would be laid on his
chances of catching the ’bus. We would
lose sight of him for half a minute as he
took a short cut through a clump of bush ;
then he would emerge from the track
moving like an Olympic champion, while
the ’bus started on the last lap of the
morning contest. “Two bob he’ll catch
it,” cried old Peashooter the day before
yesterday. “You’re set,” sang out young
Geebung. But “The Flying Pieman”
was slightly ahead of schedule and arrived
panting at the stop just in time to hurl
himself on to a ’bus from town which
had just sneaked around the corner.
“Well, I’ll be blowed,” exclaimed Pea-
shooter as our ’bus pulled up at the
stop. “Still, he was on time. That’s a
deener you owe me.” “Rot!” snorted
Geebung. “You said two bob he’ll catch
it. He didn’t. He caught the other one.”
“Nonsense,” snarled Peashooter, “he
could have caught this one and he did
catch the other. Come on, pay up.”
They were still fighting it out when we
got to town.
« * * »
“Uramao”: The Admiral believed in
personal contact with the men, and on a
visit to one battle-wagon he put a few
questions to test efficiency and initiative.
He came to the subject of patrol duty.
Assuming, he said, the commanding
officer’s launch was tied up at the wharf
awaiting to take him aboard his ship late
at night and the patrolman noticed a
figure, down on hands and knees, making
towards the launch in a suspicious man-
ner, “What would you do?” he asked of
a hefty Jack Tar. “I’d help the com-
manding officer into the launch, sir,” was
the prompt reply.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: His family having de- i
parted to the picture show, Jephson
wandered idly about the silent house for
a few minutes and then decided to go up
the road for a walk. Expecting to be
back shortly and believing that a lighted
and open house is a deterrent to prowlers,
he left the front door open and several
.lights on. He met a couple of acquain-
tances during his walk and fell into a
rather lengthy discussion of politics,
racing, women, art, literature, golf and
the other things men talk of. He returned
home about an hour later. A large Aire-
dale dog sat in his doorway and snarled
forbiddingly at him. Beyond the dog, re-
clining in one of Jephson’s lounge chairs,
reading one of Jephson’s books and
smoking what appeared to be one of
Jephson’s cigarettes, was a total stranger.
Jephson looked across the threatening
hound, fearing that he’d encountered a
“squatter,” and demanded an explanation.
The man in the chair answered mildly,
“Well,, I called, looking for an address.
Nobody answered the bell and I stepped
into the hall and sang out. When I
turned to go out there was your blasted
dog." He wouldn’t let me out, so I thought
I’d better be comfortable till someone
came.” “But he isn’t my dog,” said
Jephson. The Airedale growled warn-
ingly and stood, stifflegged and ready, in-
different to threats and cajolery. They
might have been there half the night, only
that a whistle came from the street and
the Airedale dashed off. It took Jephson
another 10 minutes to soothe down the
unwilling visitor,
CLOSE QUARTERS.
"In Baltimore (U.S.) Charles Henn, forced to live
in his parents’ apartment with his wife, son, three
brothers and sister, learned that his wife had given
birth to quadruplets.”—' “Time.”
First the paternal heartbeat quickens
To leam the joyful tidings, then
The news provokes both fowls and men
To crow about it like the dicken^.
But even as a surfeit sickens,
His ardor would diminish when
They tactfully conveyed to Henn
The awkward number of his chickens.
And when, on coming home to roost,
The new arrivals were unloosed
In quarters where the living-space
Was correspondingly reduced,
It’s probable they’d soon get used
To perching in the fire-place.
N.S.W.
P. M. LUSK.


-'■ Mm f
r>‘
v^r=
u iV iill—'!
S-z
=Sf
Jl
y v
&
VT ■
mm
111
ri
mssss
Ml 1
a- 1 -'
%
s4**\
PUT YOURSELF
IN THIS PICTURE
It's the best picture you've ever seen.
You've left the monotonous routine of the
work-a-day world behind and you're on a Pioneer Tour,
You're finding beauties you'd hardly dreamed of you're
enjoying every moment every mile —in the wonders of
Australia and the arm-chair comfort of your Pioneer Roadcruiser.
This is YOU, next week next month on one of the 160
Pioneer scenic routes throughout Australia!
Your personal comfort is of first importance to Pioneer. Deep,
adjustable seats, wide windows, radio and guide's public address
system are features of all Pioneer blue and silver Roadcruisers.
Meals, accommodation and luggage are perfectly handled on
every tour.
eer tours
MELBOURNE
MUBOI4
SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE
8U5511 64,635 C 2514
HOBART 6221
Pi SS
V
c. } :
m
k : :ji
TIME
FOR A
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
—in the smart HClrf packs.
fd
THE SERVICE MAN
Mistakes and Successes.
“Ek Dum”: Sunday newspapers and
A.B.C. gave very garbled accounts
of self-examination by the United
States Navy into its “blunders” during
the war after Pearl Harbor. The details
were not quite clear, and the reports were
refreshing only in that there was some-
thing reassuring in the knowledge that
the United States Navy did sometimes
make mistakes. Anybody reading the
Australian press during the first two years
of the Pacific War might have believed
that the only mistakes were made by the
Royal Navy, whose loss of Prince of
Wales and Repulse was condemned in
terras 50 times more scathing than any
used to attack the awful blunder of Pearl
Harbor,
Yet it was a second set of U.S. blunders
that caused the loss of the British ships,
which would certainly not have been sent
into the Malayan area except as a comple-
ment to a strong United States fleet, and
particularly only in the presence of a
strong United States air force in what
would naturally become primarily an
American zone in the event of war with
Japan. U.S. aircraft at Manila were left
“She seems to be running more quietly now ."
wide open for Japanese attack, and the
Japs did not lose the opportunity. Thus
the British, both navally and aloft, were
left without the assistance on which they
had relied.
Alive to the movements of the Japanese
forces in Indo-China and in the seas be-
tween the Philippines and Indo-China,
the British repeatedly warned the United
States days before the actual Japanese
attack, but the Americans waited for
something to happen. And when it did
some of them joined Australian news-
paper strategists in the hunt for British
blood.
The mistakes listed in newspaper and
radio narratives were scarcely news.
The tale of Savo and the destruction
of Canberra and two U.S. heavy cruisers
had bean told in detail before, but it had
not been made clear that much of the
trouble in the Solomons, especially in the
Savo battle, was due to the local U.S,
command’s distrust of radar. It shows
how far the Royal Navy was ahead of
the Americans at that stage.
Two other incidents were touched on
which are less known —the sending of
torpedo squadrons from Midway to
meet the Japanese Fleet without provid-
ing air-fighter cover. This was at a stage
when the need for fighter cover had been
proved over and over again. It was
almost unbelievable that it could happen.
It did and the torpedo force was virtually
wiped out by the enemy. But, as with the
Prince of Wales and Repulse incident, it
paid ultimate dividends,
Japs Fade Away
The third incident concerned the amaz-
ing evacuation of Kiska and Attu. These
two mist-hung Arctic islands in the
Aleutians the Americans bombed for 14
months, during which they inflicted less
than 7 per cent, casualties on the
Japanese. Then the Americans seized
Attu. Next day the enemy cleared out
5100 men from Kiska in under an hour,
leaving the Americans to prepare for a
landing with 25 days of incessant bomb-
ing. At the end of this burst 34,000 U.S.
and Canadian troops were put ashore
with all the usual accompaniments of
such landings, only to find that there was
not even a Jap bootlace on Kiska.
The fact is, of course, that these mis-
takes, large as they were, were incidental
to a war of the scale and magnitude of
the Pacific War, conducted from the be-
ginning, on the American side, by men
who were unschooled to combat and who
had no time to study the battle technique
of wide-open sea spaces before being
plunged into hostilities.
In the light of the rapidity of recovery
of both the British and Americans, such
mistakes as did happen can be well dis-
counted and written off.
Royal Navy’s Part
The British repaired the position on the
Indian side of the defence wall in the
minimum of time, despite the fact that
they had primary commitments in re-
gard to the U-boat war, the American
and Russian convoys and for home de-
fence, plus the long convoy routes via
the Cape to the North African zone, plus
again the fact that Cunningham’s fleet
had been knocked to pieces in the Medi-
terranean battles of mid-1941 and that
several of its major ships were under
repair amounting to reconstruction,
Britain very soon had sufficient naval
might in the Indian Ocean to make it safe,
or reasonably so, and to contain the
Japanese. And it spared a carrier, Vic-
torious, to act as tutor to the Pacific
Americans, who, apart from Pearl Har-
bor, had yet to be blooded in the tech-
nique of sea-air warfare.
The Royal Navy was more silent about
its part than the Americans. Most Aus-
tralians did not know —nor most Ameri-
cans, either —that some of the largest
ships which came to Australia at the end
of 1944 and the beginning of 1945 had
been at least two years in the Indian
Ocean, harassing Japanese communica-
tions and bases, before they showed up
in Sydney Harbor. General Eisenhower
has testified that the repulse of the Jap-
enese from Ceylon, an all-British success
was a turning point in the war.
Mistakes End
From the time the strategy of attack
in the Pacific had been planned and the
maximum resources of the Allies had
been set to work there were no more
serious mistakes. And even in the period
when there were mistakes they were only
incidental to great successes. The battle
of Savo and its losses were far more than
paid for by the far-greater battle of the
Solomons in November, 1942, when the
Japanese were turned back finally and the
tide began to swing northward.
The part of the navies in the subse-
quent offensive advances has been little
advertised or clarified. The picture of
the Pacific War as painted in Australia
has centred in General MacArthur. The
impression was left that with the might of


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TTie'^ulleiZn.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£l4 0
6 „ .. .. .. 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
3 „ .. ..4 .. 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces In the
Islands—3 months .. .. £1 9 0/
Six years' backlog cannot be
in six months but
Olympic's skilled technicians
& artisans are doing their best!
>0
m
\w\
1
Therms a BIG
job ahead of
Beeauie Everyone vmnh
100 t AuAtwfo**' life*/
OLYMPIC
WIRES
W&M
A Product of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER GO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED
CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
AND
CABLES
4 *
r
W&
f!T'v
i<
UN
X'
*
Do you recognise the wistful star of “The Seventh
Veil” in this perfectly-groomed beauty? Exquisite Ann Todd
has a flair for sophisticated fashion—from her simply-styled
coiffeur to the Clarks shoes which she chooses* Miss Todd’s nest
performance, in the Sidney Bos production “Daybreak,-’ should
put cinema audiences at her feet—while Clarks shoes* of coursei
will he at the feet of fashionable women the world over*
SHOES
Made by C, &J, Clark, Ltd, (Wholesale only). Street, Somerset , England, London Office!
Mitre Bouse, 111, Regent St., London, W,J,
“Labor” behind him the war was his de-
sign. The real story was very different.
The definitive strategy of the global
war was agreed upon only in May, 1943,
at the Trident conference held in
Washington.
The actual offensive routes of advance
were not laid out till the Quebec con-
ference in August, 1943. They, in the form
of Operation Quadrant, were then formu-
lated. It was planned that General Mac-
Arthur should continue his advance to
reach the Philippines by the autumn of
1944. The attacks on the Marshalls, Gil-
berts and Marianas were agreed to, and
the scheme of attacking the Ryukyus and
Okinawa by the spring of 1945 was ac-
cepted.
All the plans were made in the light of
naval considerations, Admiral King, of
the United States Navy, firmly insisting
that a primary objective of the designing
of the plan would be to make it inevi-
table that the United States Fleet should
meet and defeat the Japanese Navy at
some reasonably early point. Plans were
framed accordingly and proved successful.
The South Pacific commands at the pre-
liminary stage of the actual offensive
was not a united command. General
MacArthur had the Army forces—four
American divisions and the Australian
divisions and Maorilanders. Admiral
Halsey operated on his flank with a
powerful naval squadron.
On July 1, 1943, when the Huon ad-
vances were in preparation, General Mac-
Arthur had four U.S. divisions, plus Aus-
tralian troops, and an Air Force which in-
cluded fewer than 150 heavy bombers.
Admiral Nimitz further north had nine
Army and Marine divisions, apart from
the Air Force under his control, which
was used to soften Japan from the
Marianas. This softening scheme had
been born of the suggestion of General
Arnold at the Quadrant conference r t
Quebec.
The New Guinea campaign was virtu-
ally over early in 1944. A little later
General MacArthur reported that the
capacity of the Japanese for offensive
operations in the area had passed ; that
various processes of attrition would even-
tually account for their final disposition ;
that the actual time of their destruction
was of no importance, and that their
influence as a contributing factor to the
war was already negligible.
Long before that the war had entered
an almost purely naval phase. In that
phase the decisive actions were either
attrition of enemy land resources and de-
fences from the sea or landing operations
dependent on naval and naval-air co-
ordination and overall command.
Such operations were all under the
control of Admiral Nimitz, from Opera-
tion Galvanic, which involved the capture
of the Gilberts and adjacent islands;
through Operation Flintlock, which com-
prised the occupation of the Marshalls in
January, 1944, and Operation Forager in
June-July, which achieved the capture of
the Marianas, leading to the great soften-
ing-up attacks under the supervision of
Admiral Nimitz and General Harmon
and the occupations of Iwo Jima and
Okinawa.
It was only when those operations were
complete and the forward bases of the
U.S. Navy and Air Force were brought to
within direct striking distance of the
enemy’s main bases, which were being
battered to bits, that the Army came
into its own again, and a united Pacific
command was established under it pre-
paratory to the proposed invasions of
Japan. General MacArthur was ap-
pointed to the command of all troops in
the Pacific only on April 6, 1945, for
working in with Admiral Nimitz in ’he
two plans which had been laid down to
operate late in 1945 and early in 1946.
Plans for Invasion
The first of these plans, Operation
Olympic, was to be put into operation
about October. It was to consist in a
three-pronged assault on the island of
Kyushu by the Sixth United States Army
—Fifth Marine Corps and First Army
Corps—which was to land at Miyazaki,
Ariaka Wan and on the beaches on the
west of Kagoshima. These were to be
covered with a feint at the island of
Shikoku by Ninth Corps. Enemy forces in
Kyushu were to be destroyed, and it was
to be used as a base for the final assault.
Operation Coronet, in the early spring of
1946.
In this the Eighth and Tenth Armies
nine infantry, two armored and three
Marine divisions —were to assault Tokyo
Plain, and were to be followed ashore by
the First Army.
But on the verge of Operation Olympic
the atom bomb proved itself with such
effect that Russia declared war within
two days.
And when the Japanese capitulated
nearly a year earlier than had been ex-
pected in the most optimistic military
calculations up to the time of the success
of the bomb, it was found that the Navies
and the Air Forces had left little of
Japan. All of the great cities, except
Kyoto, were virtually destroyed.
If the United States Navy made mis-
takes, it proved in the end that it could
afford them. And so did the Royal Navy,
which had more men concerned in the
Pacific War at the end than the whole of
the Australian forces, and which had per-
formed, in 1942, the swiftest large-scale
change in disposition in history, with
complete success, and at comparatively
little loss. If it had not succeeded in
blocking the westward drive of the Jap-
anese from Indonesia, the whole of the
1943 plans for Africa would have needed
to be changed, India might have fallen,
the Cape route to Australia would have
been blocked and Westralia certainly
would have been invaded.
War in China.
“Ek Dum”;. With the impending de-
parture of the last of Uncle Sam’s troops
from China the position in the Far East
changes for the worse.
Since November 11, when the Central
Government’s cease-fire order was issued,
Chiang Kai-shek has gone gently with the
Chinese Communists, and these Com-
munists—as is Communist habit —have
mistaken gentleness for weakness. They
have avoided action which might precipi-
tate a crisis, but they have been using
fheir forces to the south-east of Peking in
such a way as to threaten Chiang’s main
communications with Manchuria. They
have taken over a number of towns along
the Peking-Mukden railway and have
gradually edged towards vital points. At
the same time one of their spokesmen has
cheekily announced that if Chiang refuses
to yield to demands for the definition of
Communist areas, they will establish
them by force and refuse further co-
operation with the reorganised Chinese
Government.
Chiang appears to be unimpressed. He
has remarked that if the cease-fire order
is ignored his troops will take the
offensive. As their resources have grown
considerably, a bitter campaign is likely,
though whether it will be more definitive
than past campaigns remains to be seen.
The Chinese appear to be more sensible
than Europeans in these matters. They
do not carry fighting to extremes.
Further south, in French Indo-China,
where war has been simmering for some
time, trouble also appears to be reaching
a crisis. When the war with Japan ended
plans were all ready, as in Indonesia, for
insurrection by the Viet-Nam nationalist
forces against the French. The Japanese
had done their best to leave the arrange-
ments complete, but the promptitude of
the action taken by Lord Louis Mount-
batten, who was better informed about
Indo-China proceedings than about those
in Indonesia, forestalled the Japanese-
sponsored plans and forced an agree-
ment.
It has taken the Viet-Nams a year to
reorganise, but they are now carrying on
a war against the French which would
have been regarded as major a genera-
tion ago and is certainly of greater con-
sequence to the French than their cam-
paign against the Riffs.
From intermittent shelling of Hanoi
and other centres at the beginning of the
month, the war has now extended
throughout the whole of the Northern
French Indo-China. On December 20
martial law came into force in Tong-
king, and Hanoi, which has been the
main target of insurgent artillery fire,
was attacked by 30,000 yelling Viet-Nams,
who seem to have been able to arm
themselves, in complete defiance of the
agreement with the French, which limited
Viet-Nam forces to 10,000, acting under
the authority of the French General
Staff.
The problem of handling a general in-
surrection in French Indo-China would
be very large, especially if the rebels are
well armed. The terrain is difficult, the
climate all in favor of native forces.
There are about 90,000 French troops in
the country, but the chances are that these
will prove not nearly sufficient to deal
with the problems which will arise if the
business is widespread.
Perhaps, however, the arrest of Viet-
Nam leaders on charges of co-operation
with the Japanese in 1945 Will have a
pacifying effect. The Viet-Nams are
likely to suffer seriously from the lack of
the Japanese leadership which gave their
movement birth.


y/
~Y
'/sa
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
From a battleship’s electrical equipment to
emergency lighting in great hospitals. Exide
serves you in a hundred ways. In your choice
of a car battery you can depend upon Exide.
It will still keep going when the rest haye
stopped.
•HERE'S AN
FOR everypurpose
8.45
THE SERVICE MAN
Bishop Moyes, of Armidale (N.S.W.),
who made a slight intrusion into politics
recently with a of the suggested
appointment of McKell as Governor-
General, is one of three sons of John
Moyes of Adelaide, who was, in his day,
a well-loved headmaster and school in-
spector in the S.A. Education Depart-
ment. The bishop was ordained in 1908,
and after a couple of years as a London
curate was rector of several S.A. churches
before becoming Archdeacon of Adelaide
in 1925. He was appointed to the Armi-
dale see four years later. M. H. Moyes,
chief rehabilitation officer in the Victorian
Social Services Department since his re-
tirement from the R.A.N. a few months
ago, was an outstanding figure in Adel-
aide college and university athletics. 30
years ago and has made three trips to the
Antarctic —the first with the Australasian
expedition of 1912-14 and the last as
survey officer of the Discovery in the
1929-30 expedition. He joined the Navy
in 1914 and finished up in charge qf its
Education and Vocational Training
branch. Third of the brothers is A.G.,
who played cricket for S.A., but later
migrated to N.S.W. and now writes about
the game for Sydney “Sun.”
No one could have listened to the
King’s Christmas speech with greater in-
terest and pride than Lionel Logue, of
Harley-streeL Bora in Adelaide 66 years
ago, Logue married a niece of Paris
Nesbit, Q.C., a fine-looking girl with a
talent for acting, and set up as a teacher
of elocution in Perth. There wasn’t much
of a living in it, but Logue (“dear
Lionel” to sighing flappers of the period)
was a frugal and studious little fellow
with ideas. Going to London, he set up
as a speech therapist specialising in the
treatment of stammering. One of his
early visitors was a modest young man
who did not at first reveal himself as the
Duke of York. When this became known
and a certain gratifying improvement had
been noted, Logue’s reputation and for-
tune were made. He was admitted to the
Royal Victorian Order in 1937, the
Coronation year, and was named com-
mander (C.V.0.) in 1944, in the mean-
time helping to found a College of Speech
Therapists. His wife, who brought him
three sons, died in 1945.
Perhaps Melbourne’s climate or some-
thing is conducive to the production of
infant musical prodigies, but probably
the most extraordinary of them is Roger
Holmes, of Camberwell, aged nine. Last
year he scored highest marks in the
fourth grade at the Melbourne Uni-
versity examinations. Brought up on a
regimen of Mozart, Bach and Haydn, he
doesn’t even know the musical names of
these composers’ pieces, but calls them
“that tune by Haydn” or “that one by
Mozart.” At a Melba Hall students’ con-
cert he threw off a two-part invention of
Bach and a Mozart sonata. The Haydn
concerto is in his repertoire, which is
more extensive than many pianists three
times his age. Roger was brought to Roy
Shepherd, one of Melbourne’s leading
teachers, when he was six and found to
have a perfect sense of pitch. He also
composes. As a reward for his perform-
ance at the Melba Hall he was given a
cricket set, a gift that would have seemed
more appropriate for a potential Brad-
man ; but musicians are like that.
With the close of the school year of
1946 three outstanding Queensland edu-
cationists retired from active work.
Senior in length of service was A. E.
Warburton, head of the East Brisbane
State School, who first entered the Edu-
cation Department 53 years ago. Canon
Morris founded the Brisbane C, of E.
Grammar School in 1912, and for 34
years maintained standards which have
placed it in the first rank of Australian
high schools. P. M. Hamilton, Victorian
Rhodes Scholar in 1917, was head of the
Brisbane Boys’ College for 16 years and
president of the New Education Fellow-
ship, an institution which has done par-
ticularly fine work in the reform and ad-
vancement of educational standards. All
three are regarded with respect and affec-
tion by thousands who passed through
their schools.
Adelaide ’Varsity has never had any
qualms about taking young men on its
professorial staff. William Keith Hancock,
Professor of Economic History at Oxford
since 1944, lately chosen to write the
history of Britain’s civilian war effort.
ECONOMIST TEW.
occupied the chair in Modem History
in Adelaide at 26 and L. G. Melville
was only a year older when he first
profited there in Economics. Following
in their train is Dr. Brian Tew, also an
economist, who, at 29, becomes the ’Var-
sity’s present youngest prof. A doctor of
philosophy from Cambridge, he was
statistician at the British Ministry of Sup-
ply in the early part of the war and later
assistant-director of the Ministry of Air-
craft Production. Lately he’s been
economic adviser to a London finance
company.
Appointed chairman of the jpint coal
board set up by Federal and N.S.W.
legislation, Keith Addison Cameron takes
on a job which despite the high salary—
reported as £5OOO a year, but possibly
something more than that —is one of the
least envied in Australia. His assignment
is to revive the N.S.W. coal industry and
increase production, and the powers of
his board, on paper, are virtually un-
limited. Cameron, who holds a Mel-
bourne Uni. degree in engineering, has
had plenty of experience in mining prob-
lems as engineer and superintendent in
various parts of Australia and also, for
a time, in Canada. At present he is
Broken Hill manager of North Broken
Hill. He’s 44.
Resigned from the post of General
Manager of Commonwealth Disposals
Commission to take up an appointment in
private industry, George Alap Davis has
been responsible for the biggest selling
enterprise in Australian history. The
Commission has held sales in every State
of the Commonwealth and throughout
the Islands, and a mere list of the items
it has disposed of would fill a fair-sized
volume. Before becoming Australia’s
Number One junk salesman Davis was
Commonwealth Director of Clothing and
Textiles; before that, Controller of
Defence Foodstuffs ; before that manager
of N.S.W. Government Stores Depart-
ment. Now 46, he joined the Govern-
ment service as a youngster.
The last of the Kelly boys, James, has
passed on near Glenrowan (Vic.) at 87.
When Ned and Dan began their outlawry
Jim was 18 and was serving a sentence of
three years for horse-stealing (imposed
June 27, 1877). It was his third conviction
—-his first, at 14, was for cattle-stealing.
Released, he was just in time to take part
in the agitation for Ned’s reprieve. When
registering his mother’s death in 1923
Jim omitted Ned’s name from the list of
children his mother bore. Possibly the
fact that Ned had been convicted of
obscene language, of assault (two counts),
of horse-stealing and of assaulting the
police, had been given the benefit
of the doubt in charges of assault
and robbery and also of robbery under
arms, and had finally been hanged, had
something to do with the oversight.
Early in the New Year E. S. Lanyon
becomes the new S.A. Parliamentary
Librarian, succeeding Will Quinton,
who retires on January 10. He brings to
his new appointment 28 years’ experience
in Adelaide’s Public Library. Chosen
from 50 applicants, he is a comparatively
young man 42. Lanyon began as a
cadet at the Public, and was fortunate to
have been trained by that expert
librarian H. R. Purnell. He is a Fellow
of the Institute of Librarians and was
president in 1945.
Canadian music-lovers will soon be
listening to works by Australian com-
posers, Professor Bernard Heinze having
packed a large assortment among the
luggage he has taken per Skymaster to
Toronto, where he is under engagement
of the Canuck Broadcasting Commission
to conduct a series of concerts. Frank
Hutchens, Margaret Sutherland, Clive
Douglas and Alfred Ftill are among the
composers represented. The Ormond
Professor joined the ranks of the
flying virtuosi, not because he wanted to
—he doesn’t care for air travel—but be-
cause he had to, steamship passage being
unavailable.
“Ek Dum”; Let me introduce an Indo-
nesian comrade (whom I feel I can safely
mention, since he is a cousin of the Sultan
of Jokjokarta, who is persona grata with
the wharfies’ union) as my nomination
for the holder of the longest monicker in
Australian Who’s Who. W.W. records
that he “left Java a few weeks before
island conquered,” and has been studying
at Punt-road, Toorak (Vic.), for the civil
service ; recreations, “art, music, dancing,
politics, philosophy, swimming.” He
answers to Raden Mas Roeslannoedanoe-
roesami, and is the son of Kandjeng
Raden Toemenggoeng Brongtodiningrat.
A. G. Serle, Victoria’s 1947 Rhodes
Scholar, has art on both sides of his
family. His mother is artist Dora Serle
and his father is one of the busiest men
in Melbourne literary circles, a biblio-
grapher of Austrian poetry and a guide
lecturer at the Gallery. The
new Rhodes Scholar was educated at
Scotch College and at Ormond, where he
has just completed the third year of his
arts course, with a distinguished record in
history and political science. He served
three years with A.I.F. Signals and was
wounded at Finschhafen. On the athletic
side he holds a Melbounie University
hockey blue and an Australian hockey
blue and in 1941 won the under 19
hurdles championship of Victoria. He
is 24.
Sketched by Mcßeath while making an
eloquent address at the Air Force monthly
luncheon in Melbourne, Captain Alfred
George Brown, secretary-general of the
RED CROSS BROWN.
Australian Red Cross, may have been
wearing this pleased expression because
he was thinking of the magnificent work
of the Australian Red Cross women. As
war workers he maintains they were
second to none. Born in Melbourne in
1888, Brown saw action in Gallipoli, won
the M.C. in France, got the French Croix
de Guerre and was mentioned in dis-
patches. He joined the Red Cross when
the staff was a trio. At the peak of acti-
vities in the last war it rose to 240
50 p.c. being volunteers and the rest wives
or widows of servicemen. He flew
150,000 miles over Australia and the
islands. Brown is a trustee of the fund
raised to enable the 16-year-old Mel-
bourne girl Shirley Skinner to be flown to
U.S. to have a nail removed from a lung
by Dr. Chevalier Jackson, of Philadelphia.
Seventeen-year-old Rory Burnett, who
almost scooped the pool at the midship-
men’s graduation ceremony at Flinders,
is a chip off the old block. His father,
Captain J. Burnett, who went down with
H.M.A.S. Sydney, was a member of the
first batch of recruits to enter the naval
college, and he also passed the course
with flying colors. The prizes young
Rory took could have filled a barrow.
He was first in English and mathematics,
won his father’s Memorial Prize for the
best Rugby exponent, the Governor-
General’s Cup for best all-round games
player, the award for the grand aggregate
in marks, and would have carried off the
prizes in French, history and navigation
if regulations didn’t preclude a cadet from
collecting more than two awards for
scholastic subjects. A brother, P. R.
Burnett, graduated from Flinders in 1945.
Dead in California on Christmas Day,
W. C. Fields made his first stage appear-
ance in 1897 in a small town in Penn-
sylvania. His juggling act soon got him
a New York engagement and during the
next few years it took him to London,
all over Europe and in 1914 to Australia.
An engagement with Florenz Ziegfeld
started him on the second stage of his
career as comedian with Ziegfeld’s Follies,
George White’s Scandals and Earl
Carroll’s Vanities, but it was through the
films that he and his bulbous nose really
became known throughout the world. He
had' a reputation for hard drinking and
he capitalised this on the' screen, and
made it the theme of all of his publicity,
event to the extent of claiming as a,
legitimate deduction for income-tax pur-
poses a whacking drink bill on the
g.ound that it was essential expenditure
for the upkeep of his nose, a very neces-
sary part of his stock-in-trade as an actor.
His death at 64 was the sequel to a car
accident about a year ago.
“El V.”: Nobody would have picked
Brunsdon Fletcher in a month of Sundays
as the editor of the largest, if not the
greatest, of Australian dailies. There
was great shaking of heads when, in 1918,
he succeeded Tom Heney, who resigned
as a protest when a Fairfax collared the
nomination sent to the “Herald’s” editor
to take a free trip to the European battle
line. Fletcher turned out to be a good
administrator, got on well with every-
body inside and outside the office, showed
that he had a constant mind, and that he
could be a terrier in argument, and
earned the respect of all for his honesty
of purpose. He will go down in history
as the last Sydney editor able to carry on
the old dignified tradition of the great
dailies. His last appearance in, .active
journalism was when, a year or so ago,
the journalists’ strike called him back to
volunteer duty for a time. The last time
the writer spoke to him he was sitting
under a tree reading The Bulletin.
Charged with being a reformed character
he retorted like lightning: “No, I’m only
being self-righteous! ”
Into the silence:
At Auckland, at 79, C. S. Forbes, brother of
G. W. Forbes, ex-Prime Minister of Maon-
land. A native of Lyttelton he put in a period
as electrical engineer at Coolgardie mines. Re-
turning to M.L. he supervised the installation
of electric tramways at Dunedin and Welling-
ton. Later he took up land at Cheviot, where
his brother George was one of the original
settlers.
At Wellington, M.L., aged 68, James Henry
Fowler, ex-Controller and Auditor-General from
1937 till 1939, when he retired after 44 years’
service.
At Brighton (Vic.), at 82, Edwin Hamilton
Edwards, a plant propagator with a world-wide
reputation.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Delightful informality and gaiety of
dressing marked the opening day of the
Davis Cup tournament. Melbourne men,
so long accustomed to drabness, came
out in a rash of panamas banded with
floral ribbon. Even the muhdane shirt
provided, in the mass scene, a veritable
kaleidoscope. Among the women yellow
was popular, as were the cool-looking
greens, which ranged from lime to deep-
olive and were in most cases allied with
white. Lady Brookes, wife of the presi-
dent of the L.T.A.A., was smart in a
pastel-blue frock, her large navy straw
hat being trimmed with navy and red
ribbon. Mrs. K. Fitzpatrick, daughter of
the president of the L.T.A.V., Mr. H, A.
Pitt, chose a printed silk frock in shades
of crimson, green and gold. Josephine
Gregg’s blue-and-white-printed frock was
worn with a large black picture hat
trimmed with pink and blue flowers. Bob
Menzies came with his wife, decorative
in a pastel-blue ensemble. Pretty Jean
Darragh topped her pastel-pink linen
frock with a white sailor boater. Kathleen
Gepp’s dusty-pink linen suit; was worn
with a flower-trimmed platter hat. Cherry
Carson’s pink linen suit had a peaked
hood attached to the collar. Pauline
Sebree’s simple white cotton frock was
patterned in green.
With Kooyong simmering in the heat,
dressing for the doubles day of the Davis
Cup was even more casual than on the
opening day—cotton frocks and large
beach hats, with blue the predominating
color, was the order of the day. Chatting
on the verandah of the clubhouse at the
afternoon-tea interval were the Lieut.-
Governor, Sir Edmund Herring, and
Lady Herring, her green-and-white-pat-
terned frock worn with a dark-green
straw haJ banded in white, and U.S.
Consul-General Richard Boyce and Mrs.
Boyce, she in dusty-pink blouse, light-
weight navy suit and wide navy hat
veiled in dusty pink. The Premier came
with Mrs. Cain, who wore a tailored
frock of aqua-blue and a white shady
straw hat. Mrs. Adrian Quist’s backless
frock of blue linen was trimmed with a
ruching of the material piped in white.
Striped seersucker was popular among the
younger set, and was made up in sun-tops
and pinafore styles. Nancy Burgess was
sporty in a bare midriff style of aqua-
blue and white. Two eye-taking pinafore
frocks were worn by Mary Reynolds and
Joan Bowtell of Hobart. Mrs. Gerald
Patterson’s sports frock was of dusty-
pink jersey ; her daughter Muffy was in
blue linen and white straw hat trimmed
with blue and white flowers.
One of the festive season’s most suc-
cessful parties was that held at Rippon-
lea, home of Mrs. T. G. Jones. There
was dancing on the special floor laid
down on the centre lawn. Funds of the
Totally and Permanently Disabled Ex-
Servicemen and Women will be consider-
ably helped by the party, for tickets were
one guinea and money was spent freely
during the evening. Mrs. J. E. Shilliday,
smart in a black gown trimmed with tur-
quoise-blue and rose beads and silver fox
cape, was the. efficient and energetic
organiser. Wanda Shilliday, who has just
been successful in * University exams,
wore a filmy beige lace frock. Mrs.
T, G. Jones’s frock was of beauti-
ful ivory-satin brocade. One daughter,
Betty, wore an old-world frock of
hyacinth-blue taffeta ; the other, Pat,
was in formal white gown and white
Arctic-fox cape. Councillor Geoff
Bolton, who has done a lot for
the cause for which the party was given,
was with his daughter Denise. Mrs.
Gordon Blackburn chose a long, blue
Chinese coat over her gown. Muriel
Tomkins’s gown was of white crepe with
gold-embroidered shoulders matching the
wide waistband and wbrn with short
matching jacket. Outstanding was the
aqua-blue cloth military cape worn by
Mrs. Lionel Newton. Sparkling silver
and cyclamen sequins patterned its wide
yoke ; the cape was worn over a white
gown. Mrs. Fred Owen’s filmy-blue lace
frock was worn with a heavy brocade
coat in the same tonings.
The children’s ward at the Alfred
Hospital was transformed into fairyland
for the Christmas party given by the K.
Barry Thomson Auxiliary. For many
weeks members of the auxiliary and their
friends had been making or gathering
the wonderful assortment of toys that
gave so much pleasure to the children.
Mrs. Barry Thomson has noAy given this
children’s party for 31 consecutive years,
the idea springing from a promise made
to her own son when he was a little boy.
Jack Barry Thomson had so many pre-
sents given to him that he asked his
mother if she would give the little sick
children a partv and some of his pre-
sents. So began these parties at the
Alfred Hospital. Incidentally, Jack,
now living in America, where he
has had a distinguished stage career, is
married to Ruth Chatterton.
Colored streamers, silver bells and
Chinese lanterns hung from the ceiling,
gaily-colored papers decorated the cots,
masses of flowers in huge bowls inter-
spersed with small Christmas-trees were
set against the walls, while models of
Father Christmas, clowns and puppet
orchestras were placed down the centre
of the ward. Facing the entrance to the
ward an enormous Christmas-tree, hung
with colored lights and a great load of
gifts, was the centre of attraction for the
children. Each gift was specially wrapped
and selected and Carried the child’s name
and age on the attached card. For many
years Wallace Mitchell, senr., played
Father Christmas, but he has now passed
the job over to son Robert. John Lillie,
who is nine years of age and has spent
his third Christmas in the hospital, was,
of course, one of the afternoon’s special
pets. Members of the auxiliary helped
Mrs. Barry Thomson, and special guests
included the president of the Board of
Management of the Alfred Hospital,
V. Y. Kimpton, Sir Alexander Stewart,
vice-president, Colin Rankin, manager
and secretary, and doctors, sisters and
nurses attached to the children’s ward.
On Boxing Day His Majesty’s was
packed with children and their parents
for the opening day of “Peter Pan.” In
spite of the heat the youngsters clapped
and shouted with glee at the antics of the
fearsome Captain Hook, played by Reg
Newson, and his band of pirates. In
the audience was Margaret Saker with
her two grandchildren, Judith and Eliza-
beth Taylor; Madeline Koski brought
Claudette and Anthony David.
Pictured here is pretty Nan Summers,
who makes a very charming Mrs. Darl-
ing in “Peter Pan.” Nan is the only
child of Mr. and Mrs. A. Summers, of
Toorak-road, South Yarra. On leaving
the Methodist Ladies’ College Nan be-
gan a journalistic career, withal keeping
a lively interest in the theatre. She
Appeared in many Little Theatre produc-
tions, her first professional appearance
being as co-leading lady in “The
Children’s Hour,” Soon her love of the
theatre made her forsake the typewriter,
and she now devotes her time to radio
work and the stage. For her first appear-
ance as Mrs. Darling Nan sets off her
fair coloring with a long formal gown of
lime-green crepe, the wide waistband
embroidered in gold sequins. Sitting in
the nursery waiting for her children to
come back from “Never Never Land”
she wears a simple street frock of black
crepe, the skirt, full and flared, allied to
a bodice fitting and with a heart-shaped
neckline. Photo, by Athol Shmith.
Sumner Locke-Elliott stepped off the
plane from Sydney at five o’clock on
Boxing Day afternoon; at eight o’clock
he was at the Little theatre waiting for
the curtain to go up on his play “Invisible
Circus.” In this play Sumner has bur-
lesqued the doings of a commercial
broadcasting station. A capable cast in-
terpreted the witty lines and pranced
through the scenes with great elan. Over
from Sydney, Rex and Jo Rierfits sat with
the author, Jo draping a colorful Mexi-
can scarf around the bodice of her short
black frock. Rex has been spending some
time in Ballarat doing research for the
new Watt picture “Eureka Stock-
ade,” After the performance the Dolya
Ribushes gave a party for the cast and
their friends, among whom were Dr,
Arthur Alderson, Brett Randall, Irene
Mitchell, who produced “Invisible Cir-
cus,” Jean Campbell and, of course,
Sumner Locke-Elliott,
From Sydney
The most talked-of party in the offing
is the garden party to be given by N.S.W.
Ministers of State in honor of their Royal
Highnesses the Governor-General and
the Duchess of Gloucester. This will be
Sydney’s farewell to the Royal pair, who
leave for England early this year. The
grounds of Government House, Sydney,
will be closely populated on the afternoon
on January 9 from 3.30 onwards, as all
invited are taking this last oppor-
tunity to pay their respects to the Duke
and Duchess, who have worked untiringly
at the duties of their office since their
arrival in Australia. On the following
morning, January 10, there will be im-
pressive ceremony at King George V
Memorial Hospital when the Duke will
unveil a statue of the late King George V.
The Maurice Gulsons went otf to Mel-
bourne just before Christmas Day. The
visit is a sort of three-in-one trick. Mr.
Gulson was booked to play in the big
bowls carnival. The Davis Cup was a
booking ; and, thirdly, they were to pay a
visit to farewell Mrs. Gulson’s sister, Mrs.
Sangster, who leaves on a journey to Eng-
land early this year.
Randwick in the sun was gay last
Thursday. It was the second day of the
A.J.C. Summer Meeting, and it was Box-
ing Day. The holiday crowds were not
dense, but effervesced with cheerful-
ness. Slim girls in flowered-silk frocks,
slim girls in white, in blue, in the most
melting shades of pink, in lilac, and in
fact in every variation of shade that
would gladden the eye in a bright
garden stood studying their racebooks in
front of the stands, or shuttled hopefully
between tote and lawn. Older women
were there in hundreds, too, a little more
conservative in their frocking, but just
as often silken- or nylon-hosed. Yes, silk
and nylon have definitely got permanent
footing on the fashion stage once more.
One enthusiast in the official stand was
caught drawing a tender finger around
the ankle of her neighbor: “Pure silk!”
she gloated. “They look so scrumptious,
dear, I just had to feel them.”
Large hats were worn, some Leghorns
among them. Floppy straws were worn
well back, their brims shading the neck.
Most of these wide brims were banded
with ribbon, some had field flowers circling
the crown. There were lots of fluffy,
tufty tiny hats, too, but in the hot sun
they lost their attraction. The day was
one of Sydney’s best. It was tented with
a hot, blue sky through which a cool
breeze sifted continuously. And talking
of cool freshness brings Mrs. Frank
Rogers into the mind. She was up from
Austinmer for the day, her printed silk
frock worn with a small white off-the-face
hat. Jill and Beth Campbell,., Sue
Playfair and Mrs. Strath Playfair were
also of the day’s well-appointed.
A white linen frock that had every
woman’s eye following it was worn by
Mrs. Cosmo Gibson. The embroidery
on the bodice was at once handsome and
exquisite. Her large brown hat had an
upturned brim showing a lining of brs>wn
silk. Mrs. Gibson and her husband, who
are from the Argentine, enjoyed the
Randwick meeting. They are on their
way to Maoriland, sheep their special in-
terest, With them was Mrs. T. F. Wilkie
in blue and white printed silks. Margaret
Longworth in a soft blue frock and a
pale lilac hat was attractive. With her
was sister Jean in a green and white color
scheme. One of the day’s most graceful
was Mrs. Alec Budge, her hyacinth-pink
dress smart with a stiffened white lawn tie.
Lois Connolly had white spots scattered
on cyclamen crepe. Mrs. R. Johnstone,
who had left Melbourne, Davis Gup and
all, behind, wore a currant-red Breton
sailor hat and a wide fred belt with her
cream crepes. Mrs. John Gearin,
Mrs, Phillip Lusk, Mrs. J. A. Scully
and Jean Cox were others who
helped to make the glad pattern of
the day. Mrs. J, George, also from Mel-
bourne, had a black-lace edging to her
large black hat. If the A.J.C. gives prizes
for regular attendance it should add Mrs.
Joe Coen’s name to the list. She was
at the Boxing Day meeting, smiling and
smart in a green lightweight suit and a
cinnamon-brown hat. Another devotee
was Mrs. W. Parsons.
If you love Australia you will feel all
the happier if you have found, as this
writer has had the luck to do, a copy of
Enid Bell’s Legends of the Coochin
Valley among your Christmas gifts. From
its lagoon-blue cover with the two black
swans on outspread wing, to the final
word of the story of the young aborigine
warrior, Butcha, the small book is a
delight. Of this young warrior she writes :
The spears and shields of the Ugarapul
warriors lie crumbled into dust, and their
deeds are unrecorded in the land they
fought to hold. Bui upon the deep blue
outline of the range a sleeping figure carved
by the slow hand of time once bore the
name of the greatest and most valiant war-
rior of their tribe.
There’s a grand swing to that. It might
be out of the Ossian cycle. Enid Bell is
one of the well-known Coochin Coochin
family, and her affection for the abori-
gines and for the old ways of this land
breathes through every page. There is
a foreword by Lady Gowrie.
Letters to the J. D. Wilkinsons, of
Kirribilli, tell of a holiday enjoyed by
daughter Marjorie (now Mrs. Pat Hearn,
of Surrey, England) in Norway. Besides
the glorious scenery of fiord and snow-
capped mountain, she tells of smoothly-
running hotels where the “food is beyond
words, absolutely beautiful and plenty of
it.” The train going from Oslo to Voss
was fitted with long windows and had
central heating. The journey takes about
ten hours, and the Australian girl and her
English companions were dying for tea.
The guard tried, but could not get them
any at the so he took them
into the guard’s van and brewed a
pot for the travellers. The wrought-iron
work of the country and the sables, which
are very beautiful and very cheap (com-
pared with Australian standards), evoke
a loud cheer, also the cream cakes. The
three girls got away with 20 at one sitting.
Coolamon, where the golden wheat
comes from, is the birthplace of Gladys
Lewis, a girl with a golden voice. Gladys
goes off to London early this year for
further study. After two years in the
W.A.A.A.F. she na|s been continuing her
singing lessons under the rehabilitation
scheme for students. Recently she gave
concerts in Leeton and Coolamon and
neighboring towns, and so delighted her
audiences that a Trust Fund has been
launched to help her in her career.
Gladys’s first teacher was Arnold Matters,
now in London, singing at Sadler’s Wells.
Her present teacher is Lute Drummond.
Photograph is by Norton Trevaire,
On a sultry, sticky afternoon last week
Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard opened
their farewell season of matinees at the
Theatre Royal. The house, crowded from
the gods downwards, was a tribute to
thfe evergreen charm of these two, for not
even the hope of a cool breeze blowing
off Bondi had lured their audience away.
The programme was a Noel Coward
souffle of lightness and brightness with an
occasional flash of wit. Cyril and Madge
were, of course, the Jasper and Jane of
Family Album. Roger Barry’s perfect
diction and clear tones, Leslie Victor in-
imitable as Burrows, Sheila Helpman as
the will-burning Victorian spinster were
starry even in a cast that turned the little
play into a clearcut cameo.
In between this and the closing “Ways
and Means” Cyril and Madge served a
potpourri of old favorites in song-and-
dance. Michael Walker’s singing of
“Matelot” got the salvo it deserved. And
while this Letter is.handing out New
Year honors, let her pin a star of great
magnitude on the lapel of orchestra-
leader Andrew MacCunn —knight com-
mander of the bars, controller of the
crotchets, and most benign protector of
the quavers!
This Letter said the final good-bye to
an old acquaintance, Carl Kaeppel, early
last month. Carl, who died out in Lewis-
ham hospital, in the room where his old
friend Chris Brennan had died, was
acknowledged one of the outstanding
scholars of Australia —probably of the
world. The London “Times” has given
a long article to his attainments. After
the First World War, in which he gained
the M.C. for outstanding bravery at
Pozteres, Carl worked for five years on
the staff of the British Museum. He was
brilliant coach, had been a Cooper
Travelling scholar and had a hand in
forming several later Cooper scholars.
His knowledge of Shakspeare and the
Greek classics was profound.
Unless you were an intrepid hunter this
Christmastide you found no Christmas
cards. The early shopper, of course, had
scooped the pool. Poet Rod Quinn, how-
ever, remained unruffled, and sent out an
unusual one embellished by a briar pipe
from which the smoke was still curling.
Above the pipe was written a verse by
Rod himself;
This is the last pipe Henry Lawson smoked.
Dreaming, maybe, of bushland scenes and times,
Or old mates, from - its curling rings evoked,
And limned by him in deathless prose and
riiymesr*-"-'—


to?
Have You Made
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a
will because it is regarded as a final and
irrevocable step. But a will may be altered
or changed completely any number of times
during the life of its maker.
« .'-? s
•In all cases it is advisable to engage the ser-
vices of a solicitor, and, in appointing
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Ltd. as Executor, you avail yourself
of the services of Australia’s oldest trustee
company. It has more than 68 years’
practical experience in estate administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.K.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
\
NEW SOUTH WAIVES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., P.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O
N.B.W. Manager; J. W. Bussell Preach,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
#
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claim. Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agent, in all Principal Country Town,.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 696,028 10 p.c. =589,017 I infi nll 07Q R ,,
Employees’ Fund, £lOOO J 106 ’ 011 979 ’ 843
1937.. 774,695 104 p.c. =649,179 125,516 1,105.359
1938.. 841,839 114 ~,,711,005 130,834 1,236,193
1939.. 855,709 12 „„ 741,919 ) , nR 7qn
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO f 108 ’ 790 1 ’ 344 ’ 983
1940.. 870.299 12 p.c. =741,919 128,380 1,473,363
1941.. 809,036 12 ~,,741,919 67,117 1,540,480
1942.. 763,488 12 „„ 741,919 ) 1R no i =-.« qqo
Employees’ Fund, £sooo’* j 16 ’ 519
1943.. 789,041 12 p.c. = 741,919 47,122 1.604,121
1944.. 839,623 13 „ ~ 803,745 85,878 1,639,999
1945.. 858,022 13 „ ~ 803,745 54,277 1,694,276
1946.. 862,956 13 „ ~803,745 )
Employees’ Fund, £lO,OOO J 49,211 1,743,487
Despite difficulties, including price-
pegging, rationing of civilian trade and
rising costs, especially taxation, brewery
earnings expanded during the war.
Tooth’s profits —the co. enjoys a lion’s
share of the trade in N. S: Wales —
averaged £821,576 Tor the half-dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1945,
compared with an average of £727,348 for
the six years before that. For the same
periods divs. averaged 12.3 p.c. and 11 p.c.
respectively. Chief factor stimulating the
growth of earnings was expansion of
demand, owing partly to a state of full
employment in trade and industry and
partly to service requirements of our own
and Allied forces. Another factor which
helped the figures along was the widen-
ing and anchoring of the market for the
co.’s products that followed a net addi-
tion of £1,954,040 to the book value of
fixed assets, including hotel properties,
during the decade to September 30, 1939.
Some idea of the expansion, and of
what a generous and untroublesome con-
tributor beer is to the national revenue,
can be had from the Commonwealth
statistician’s figures showing excise col-
lections on the stuff:
Year to Year to
June 30. June 30.
1939.. £7,342,257 1943.. £19,632,695
' 1940.. 8,838,926 1944.. 21,615,974
1941.. 11,836,870 1945.. 21,674,224
1942.. 14,199,411 1946..' 22,841,010
Growth in the figures since 1939 is equal
to 211 p.c., of which 162 p.c. represents
lifts in excise, which stepped up from Is.
9d. to 4s. 7d. per gallon. The 4s. 7d. is
equal to 73 p.c. of the brewer’s gross
receipts for bulk beer. The other 27 p.c.,
approximately ss. sd. in the £, has to
cover increased production, distribution
and other costs, including co. tax, as well
as profit.
The surprising feature is the growth of
£1,166,786 in last year’s excise collec-
tions, It suggests that expanded civilian
demand more than offset evaporation of
service requirements. The period was,
of course, one of extraordinary expendi-
ture, as was to be expected following
demobilisation. Government rationing
of beer ended in March last, but the
breweries continued to adhere to the
official quota, because shortage of raw
materials (barley and hops) restricted out-
put.
After allowing £125,709 (down £9482)
for depreciation of fixed assets and some-
thing for other contingencies, the co.’s
gross earnings stepped up £48,573:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept. Earnings. etc. Gross. Profit.
1938.. £1,819,421 £977,582 53.7 £841,839
1940.. 2,251,584 1,381,285 61.3 870,299
1942.. 2,799,208 2,035,770 72.7 763,438
1943.. 2,540,068 1,751,027 68.9 789,041
1944.. 2,601,172 1,761,549' 67.7 ,839,623
1945.. 2,697,639 1,839,617 68.2 858,022
1946.. 2,746,212 1,883,256 68.6 862,956
The net result benefited by £4934 of the
gain, reaching 13.9 p.c. on capital as
against 13.8, 13.5, 12.7, 12.3, 13, 14 and
13.8 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept
at 13 p.c., and £lO,OOO was sent to the
staff fund.
Prospects of* the 13 p.c. div, being re-
peated during the current term will de-
pend largely upon whether labor refrains
from dislocating trade and industry by
fractious behavior, and allows produc-
tion to catch up with demand. Only by
increased production and sales will the
effects of the recent “interim” lift in the
basic wage upon net earnings be offset, or
partly offset. It is mainly the level of
turnover and costs that now determine
brewery profits. Selling prices, fixed by
official edict, are unlikely to be lifted
at the moment.
Because it has to take its place in the
queue of applicants for the products of
the building, engineering and other trades,
the co. has not yet been able to get ahead
with its construction, replacement and
repairs programme. Financially the busi-
ness is well shod;
1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital £6,182,657 £6,182,657 £6,182,657
Creditors .. 1,874,133 2,553,822 2,582,116
Freeholds & plant 6,880,511 6,323,693 6,156,991
Stocks .. . . 540,282 477,916 505,884
Debtors . . . . 1,298,996 680,650 825,221
Consols, cash, etc. 1,328,559 8,430,103 .3,506,228
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£2,254,717) was £219,870.
The market backs the skill and effi-
ciency of the management and has sought
the pbund shares at the ceiling figure of
68s. 3d., at which the return is 3.8 p.c.
on a 13 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover
is 255. Id. in net tangibles.
Berlei, Ltd,
t Dividends-
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
SL £, £>£>£>
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. s 18,756 7,426 58,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~13,756 7,707 65,862
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 „ ~13,756 8,526 74,388
1939.. 21,278 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 3,522 77,910
1940.. 23,205 4000 10 „ ~13,756 5,449 83,359
1941.. 28,052 4000 10 „ ~13,756 10,296 93,055
To staff fund, £10,600 83,655
Unexplained additions, £2500 .. .. 86,155
1942.. 27,370 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 9,614 95,769
To staff fund, £2224 .. .. .. 93,545
1943.. 25,060 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 7,304 100,849
To staff fund, £3021 .. ..1
1944.. 29,789 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 j 9,012 109,861
To staff fund, £8450 .. .. | q .„
1945.. 38,817 4000 10 p.c. = 18,756 S 12,111121,9/2
To staff fund, £3734 .. ..)
1946.. 41,989 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 j 20,499 142,471
* After deducting intangibles (£2935).
The women of the Commonwealth and
the neighboring Dominion depend upon
this co. and its Maoriland and Victorian
offshoots for most of their foundation
garments. The London associate has long
done good work as buyer of basic
materials for its antipodean colleagues.
All are operating at a profit, and paying
regular divs. The Maoriland co. pays
17y p.c.; the curtain is kept drawn over
the figures of the other subsidiary and
associated interests.
The improvement of £3672 fn last
term’s net earnings came partly from sales
other than garments, and partly from
higher divs. from associated cos. The
£41,898 of profit, the best yet, was written
after allowing for depreciation and taxa-
tion, and deducting staff
divs, (£2477). It was enough to hand
the prefs. their £4OOO and show a juicy
27.6 p.c. on the £137,563 of ord. capital,
compared with 24.5, 18.4, 15, 16.7, 17,2,
13.7 and 12.5 p.c. back to 1939. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., and £3734 was sent
to the staff provident fund, leaving
£20,499 for reserves, now £142,741 in
excess of intangibles (£2935). The figures
leave no doubt as to the efficiency of
staff and plant.
Demand for the co.’s products con-
tinues to run ahead of production, partly
because of the scarcity created by war-
time restrictions, and partly because of
the acute shortage of workers in the in-
dustry. British and American manu-
facturers are in much the same position,
hence competition from overseas is still
limited. Later quality, fit, style and price
rather than ability to supply will become
the determining factors in sales; and
Berlei is well equipped to give a good
account of itself on all scores. To help
overcome the labor problem a factory
was opened at Wollongong a year or so
ago, with satisfactory results. Extension
to other centres where workers are avail-
able is under consideration.
Last term £67,840 was added to stocks,
which include scarce cotton-goods, and
£16,258 to debtors’ balances:
1939. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital. . £190,057 £190,057 £190,057 £190,057
Overdraft .. 32,133 51,815 48,613 68,371
Creditors* .. 19,194 40,235 53,881 97,994
Freeholds .. 62,792 62,587 75,669 83,087
Plant.. .. 10,964 11,034 19,374 22,009
Investments!.. 89,864 90,761 90,229 91,010
Stocks .. 105,757 161,778 203,714 271,554
Book debts .. 54,507 53,588 35,316 51,574
Cash, etc. .. 4,297 17,005 14,099 8,537
* Including taxation, f Shares in associated cos.
The co. went to its bankers for a further
£19,758 and to trade creditors, etc. —the
etcetera is an unspecified provision for
taxation —for an extra £44,113. However,
the more or less liquid surplus (£251,310)
was £10,446 stronger than at the previous
balance. Since the close of accounts the
remaining 10 s. has been called on
51,000 ords., making paid capital
£213,063 in 50,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
163,063 ords.
At the ceiling price of 48s. 3d. the ords.
return 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div, basis.
The well-protected prefs. seldom appeal
on the market. Net tangible cover (book
vahie) is £7 2s. 4d. prefs. and 375. Bd.
ords.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Ro—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
r £ £ £
1936. .666.940 70 p.c.= 490,000 176,940 2,658,771
1937. .940,628 105 „ „ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
1938. .505,153 90 „ „ 630,000 2,738,052
1939. 40 „ „ 280,000 76,841 2,815,09 S
Shares written up, £246,576 .. 3,061,969
1940. .520,388 40 p.c. = 280,000 240,388 3,302,357
1941.. 40 „ , k 280,000 295,052 3,597,409
1942. .462,326 40 „ „ 280,000 182.326 3,7/9,735
1943. .368.826 35 „ ~245,000 123,826 3,903,561
1944. .865,455 35 „ „ 245,000 120,455 4,024,016
1945. .327,410 35 „ „ 245,000 82,410 4,106,426
1946.. 40 „ „ 280,000 256,898 4,363,324
The improvement of £209,488 in last
term’s profit was due to (1) a rise in the
export price of metals, (2) increased pro-
duction, (3) slightly higher mill efficiency,
and (4) a larger return from investments.
Here are the Government statistician s
average monthly price of metals (export
parity, f.0.b.. Port Pirie) in Australian
currency:
Average Prices.
Lead, Zinc, Silver,
Year to, Per Ton. Per Ton. Per Oz.
Dec., 1989.. £l7 12 1 £l9 15 3 2s. 1.42 d.
„ 1945.. 34 10 10 37 6 4 2s. 10.59 d.
Month,
Jan., 1946.. 86 17 0 52 2 0 4s. 2.19 d.
Mar., 1946.. 42 8 6 51 9 1 4s. 2.19 d.
June, 1946.. 53 14 6 50 10 7 4s. 2.88 d.
The average price received by the co. is
substantially below export parity, be-
cause the price of each metal is pegged,
and has been since early 1940, at £A22
a ton in the Australian market, which
must be supplied before export is per-
mitted. It is exports that now provide
the profit and div., or most of it; the
Australian price, now the lowest in the
world, is overdue for upward adjustment;
it barely covers costs, which which have
more than doubled since 1939.
Ore treatment and assay figures com-
pare as follows since war began:
Ore r-> Assay ~
Treated. Lead. Silver. Zinc.
1940.. 526,892 tons 15.3 p.c. 8.8 oz. 11.7 p.c.
1941.. 511,620 „ 15.8 „ 9.0 „ 12.4 „
1942.. 501,084 „ 16.3 „ 9.4 „ 13.3 „
1943.. 417,174 * 15.5 „ 8.9 „ 12.4 „
1944.. 403,094 „ 14.7 „ 8.2 „ 11.5 „
1945.. 332,169 „ 14.7 „ 8.2 „ 11.6 „
1946.. 358,104 „ 14.5 „ 7.8 „ 11.6 „
The drop in throughput for the three
years to 1945 reflects of labor
and materials, a common experience.
The position began to improve last terra,
and the big all-flotation plant got an extra
25,935 tons 'of feed. Metal recoveries
were 97 p.c. lead, 91.5 p.c. silver and
86.5 p.c. zinc, an extraordinarily good
performance considering that over 20 p.c.
of the ifeed was low-grade, complex ore
from the British section.
The improvement in revenue was
£691,705 from mine products and £25,283
from investments:
Revenue— 1941. 1945. 1946.
Mine products.. £1,741,318 £1,529,355 £2,221,060
Investments .. 184,786 84,023 109,906
£1,926,104 £1,613,978 £2,330,966
Expenditure—
Mine .. .. 1,054,658 1,103,539 1,361,996
P. and 1. items 405,821 241,555 507,300
Loss, investment 598 ,
£1,461,077 £1,345,094 £1,869,296
Net profit ' .. £465,027 £268,884 £461,670
Growth in expenditure was mainly the
result of additions to the pay-roll, rise
in lead bonus paid to employees, higher
price of materials, and increased pro-
vision for taxation and royalties
(£392,000, up £249,000). The £536,898
of profit shown in the introductory table
includes allowance for depreciation
(£75,000) and a small unexplained addi-
tion (£228 net) to reserves. The £536,898
was equal to 3s. lOd. (76.7 p.c.) per ss.
share, and 2s. (40 p.c.) was paid in divs.
Prospects of a still better showing at
next balance are encouraging, despite the
continued rise in costs. Recently the ex-
port price of lead has varied between
£A62 and £A72 per ton, and the price of
silver has shot up to ss. 9d. an ounce,
following a lift in the U.S. price from 71
cents to 90 cents an ounce. Australian
consumption of lead is about 40,000 tons
p.a., or over 25 p.c. of total production
at the Barrier, the only producing field
whose lead-bearing products are smelted
and refined in the Commonwealth. The
zinc concentrates are solcj mainly to
Electrolytic Zinc (Tas.) and Imperial
Smelting Corp. (Eng.). World prices for
lead and zinc are closely linked to the
level of U.S. industrial activity. While
that remains high prospects for the
world’s lead and zinc mines are good.
Lead looks like being in short supply for
some, years.
Ore reserves at June 30 last were put at
5,111,000 tons (down 72,000 tons), and


* • udllo Jafiomo
iUo |uiuAi2.
Security for your
dependents can
beeasily and de-
finitely assured
by a life assur-
ance policy with
Equitable Pro-
bate and General
Insurance Co.
Ltd. Fulfil this
family responsi-
bility to-day.
R. V. PERKINS
General Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
& GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
//ecSotf/ce-37/'373 Queen ft, Snstone
W INC ELIO HOUSE, ANOEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
df
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts A.s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nolt, Public Trustee.
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life-
Building, 14 Martin Place. Sydney —Advt.
YOUR FUTURE VISIT
GREAT BRITAIN
Recovery from heavy war-time demands and austerity
conditions is proceeding apace with many improvements
to add to the pleasure of railway travel.
Peace-time comfort and popular facilities are reappearing.
The world-famous Flying Scotsman, which never failed
to run during the war, continues its daily journey over
the historic route between London and Edinburgh.
Representatives in Australia: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W., and Branches.
AVMIIVa NU3ISV3 HiHON V NOONOI
of England and Scotland
HAIMS
Circular Charts im all types ot
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our Quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. 010.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
WANTED!
SALES REPRESENTATIVE
with Good Contacts
TO SELL BUILDERS’ HARDWARE
TO LARGE-VOLUME BUYERS
Represent a well-established United States dis-
tributor of exclusive leading lines of door locks,
builders’ hardware and allied products. Excep-
tionally generous commissions. We make imme-
diate deliveries to give you quick returns.
(Direct inquiries from large-volume buyers
invited.)
Write: ROUSE
521 North La Cienega Blvd.
Los Angeles 36, California, U.S.A.
"INVINCIBLE 1
SINCE 190 h
3 H P, model "RB" INVINCIBLE
SINGLE CYLINDER, FOUR-CYCLE
Marine Motors
" Bore, 3i" Stroke. 900 R.P M ,
Weight 105 lbs.
PRICE.
Invincible Motors Pty. Ltd.
S 3 North George Street. SYDNEY* Australia
INCLUDING
COM PLETE
EQUIPMENT.
mruf/HE
AfUG&ET
mu I
' \
SHINE!
u.*
DP
rP e
o f .
OS*
ootj,
NU
pot*
fir'>
■mr-D
7VUGGET
SHOE POLISH „ „
NP46/49
m
m
m
m
irusabs?
m
m
I
n
w
m
m
-
m
m
V*
-GUARANTEED NEVER -TO FADE OR SHRINK
a lot more pay-ore is known to exist out-
side the measured limits. The drill has
proved continuation of the main load to
more than 700 ft. below the 2600 ft. level.
No. 2 shaft has been deepened to 3115 ft.,
and is equipped to go to 4200 ft. The co.
has acquired the old Silver King and
Silver Peak leases at the Barrier, and, in
conjunction with the South, is now test-
ing the Zeehan field (Tas.).
Finances are comfortable:
1940. 1945. 1946.
Shares in other cos. £1,313,637 £1,553,468 £1,558,468
Stores 90,008 151,908 113,311
Concentrates on hand 12,514 17,899 7,313
Debtors 443,837 308,350 399,999
Cash, etc 187,196 456,905 851,175'
Liquid assets .. £2,047,192 £2,488,530 £2,925,266
Less liabilities* .. 325,220 247,115 207,250
Liquid surplus .. £1,721,972 £2,241,415 £2,718,016
* Excludes provision for tax, etc., now £395,028.
After deducting tax provision, the liquid
surplus was equal to 16s. 7d. per share.
Pegged price of the scrip was 625. 6d.,
giving an immediate return of 3.2 p.c. on
a 40 p.c. dIV. basis.
The extensive and important mineral
exploration plans of Zinc Corp. and its
lusty young associate, New Broken Hill
Consolidated, are beginning to take de-
finite shape. At the Barrier aerial photo-
graphs of hundreds of square miles of
country have been taken preliminary to
more detailed geological mapping. Here
Gear Weiss, with a team of geophysi-
cists from S. Africa, will undertake geo-
physical surveys in collaboration with
Haddon King, the Corp.’s chief, geologist.
A drilling campaign is in hand at the
Pinnacles, formerly a small producer at
the Barrier. The Corp. has a 75 p.c.
interest in the Ediacara lead field, Beltana
(S. Aus.), where drilling is also in progress
under supervision of the S. Aus. Depart-
ment of Mines. An area of 1530 acres
surrounding the old Mt. Garnet copper-
zinc mine, Herberton (N.Q.), is to be
prospected at an early date. And the co.
is on the hunt for natural gas in an area
between the Barrier Ranges (N.S.W.) and
the Flinders Ranges (S. Aus.), about 100
miles from the Hill. Charge of this work
is in the hands of H. J. Evans, who used
to be with the Government geological sur-
vey in Maoriland, when he was engaged
in oil exploration work, and the Common-
wealth Bureau of Mineral Resources,
Geology and Geophysics is lending a hand.
« * * ~
Commenting on the price of spelter,
the chairman of Electrolytic Zinc (Tas.)
made these pertinent remarks at the
annual roll-up:
Following removal of price-control, zinc
in U.S.A. has risen from 9.25 cents to KH
cents per pound, equivalent to £A72 10s.
a ton. Early in November the fixed price
in U.K. was raised to £SSS a ton, or
£A6B 15s. a ton. Thus the disparity be-
tween these prices and that for Australian
sales, namely, £A22 a ton, fixed by the
Prices Commission as far back as the be-
ginning of 1940, is greater than ever. The
existing low price in Australia, which is
substantially below cost of production, is
naturally encouraging local consumption on
an artificial basis There is a further
anomaly in this connection, in that some
producers of lead concentrate and zinc con-
centrate in Australia who do not sell any
,of their products for smelting in this
country are permitted to export them at
full export prices, without carrying any
part of the penalty due to the lower prices
ruling for lead and zinc in Australia.
* * * *
Two important prospecting licences
have been granted in Queensland. One, to
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., covers
25 sq. miles at Miclere and Black Ridge,
on the Claremont (Q.) field; the other,
to Australian Mining and Smelting Co.,
Ltd., an associate of Zinc Corp., embraces
1530 acres surrounding the old Mt.
Garnet copper-zinc mine on the Her-
berton (Q.) field. Gold Mines of Aus-
tralia proposes to spend £15,000 over a
period of three years in prospecting and
testing its area, and Australian Mining
and Smelting’s plans provide for an out-
lay of £l5OO in the first year and £3OOO
in the second, provided its authority is ex-
tended.
* * * *
North Deborah, Bendigo field (Vic.),
cheered shareholders with another 2s.
div. on Dec. 20, making total distribution
for 1946 14s. a share. For the six months
to May 31, 1946, the co. crushed 6992
tons for 4532.20 z. gold. For the 24 weeks
to Nov. 4 the figures were 7098 tons for
4318.90 z. Paid capital is £16,18.7 in
65,000 10s. shares, of which 50,000 are
paid to 6s. 9d. each and the balance fully
paid. Divs. paid to date total £474,100.
♦ * * *
Log of recently-floated Evanston Gold
(W.A.): (1) Ore reserves are substantial
and the venture looks a really good thing ;
(2) the mill has started ; (3) after crush-
ing commenced on Oct. 30 minor
mechanical and metallurgical adjustments
were found necessary; (4) the clean-up
has been postponed ; (5) co. asked the
State Government for a loan of £35,000
until the end of March, when £50,000
additional capital is expected to be
raised. Mine plant of an estimated value
of £75,000, plus gold in the treated ore
and sands, has been offered as security for
the loan. Some shareholders are anxious,
fearing that the next entry in the log
might be that the clean-up has fallen
short of expectations. The directors be-
lieve that “given an ounce of luck the co.
should have tons of success.”
* * * * ,
Eldorado - (paid capital £31,006),
operating on the e.-w. line of lode south
'Of Tennant Creek (N.T.), has paid divs.
totalling 150 p.c. over the last three years.
Here are treatment, recovery and profit
figures:—
Div.
Ore Head Gold r -*■- N
Treated,Value, Recovered, Profit. Per 2s. Total.
Tons. Dwt. Oz. £ Share. £
1944.. 5385 21.39 3,497.24 8,029 -/6 7,750
1945.. 5134 39.77 7,172.45 41,517 1/6 23,254
1946. . 4844 25.74 4,519.87 19,918 1/- 15,503
Last term operations continued to be
restricted by shortage of suitable labor.
A drop of 14.03dwt. in head value of the
exceptionally rich ore treated was mainly
responsible for the contraction of £21,599
in profit, reducing the figure to Is. 3.3 d.
per 2s. share. The div. was lowered
from Is. 6d. to Is. Mining and treatment
costs stepped up, but lighter expenditure
of development and sundries resulted in
a net saving of 16s. 3.14 d. in total costs,
which were 106 s. 11.27 d. per ton. Last
year’s recovery by amalgamation was
18.66dwt., leaving 7.oBdwt. in the tailings,
which have accumulated during the war
years, and are to be re-treated by cyanida-
tion when better and more permanent
staff can be assembled. Positive ore re-
serves are figured at 8606 tons, of which
1196 tons, averaging 20dwt., are in the
Central shoot 200 ft. level, and 7410 tons,
averaging 35dwt., are in the East shoot
307 ft. level, And there is a “considerable”
tonnage in pillars and stope remnants
above the 200 ft. level, assaying 6dwt. to
15dwt. Water is coming in at the bottom
level, and is regarded as favorable evi-
dence of persistence of the lode on the
line of pitch.


ANYWHERE to ANYWHERE
within Australia or Overseas
i :■ m ■
- chr-z^^r^X
m
s>.
m
rfif*
VflSs
w
ym
Yet another TAA service is introduced for the
convenience of travellers, both interstate and oversea.
TAA will plan your complete itinerary . . . make all
arrangements for onward bookings, connecting ser-
vices and so on. Ask for further information at
the TAA Booking Office.
ARRANGE YOUR TRAVEL ITINERARY THROUGH
For further particulars see
daily classified columns
f
df
Sydney Melbourne .. .. 6 Flights Daily £5 10 6
Sydney Canberra 2 Flights Daily £1 18 3
Sydney—Brisbane 3 Flights Daily £6 16
Sydney Adelaide 2 Flights Daily £lO 8 3
Sydney Perth 1 Flight Daily £25 1 6
Sydney Hobart £lO
Sydney Launceston t _ £9 7 0
Children under 4 years free (1 per adult passenger), under 15 years, half fare.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRLINES COMMISSION
SUNDRY SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“No Leave, No Love”
This light spread of potted nonsense at
Sydney St, James has the same quality as
another potted product of which the
makers claim “too much spoils the
flavor.” The film doings are spread on a
little thickly, but what matter? They
probably can be digested along with all
the other gorging that goes with Christ-
mas and New Year junketings.
The story—if a string of noisy, comic
situations lightly strung together can bq
described as such—concerns an ex-
serviceman with the Congressional Medal
of Honor who, mainly by the chicanery
of his comrade, is roped in to appear on
one of those radio programmes which
feature interviews with returning heroes.
At the last moment, in an attack of
modesty, he backslides and shoves his
cobber forward to the microphone. The
situation is further complicated by the
fact that the young hero’s girl friend in
his home town has run out on him and
married someone else and, pending the
opportune moment to break the news to
him, the young lady who does the radio
interviewing is deputed to keep the in-
formation from the young fellow.
To carry the pother a pit—pardon, a
bit further the two marines are put up at
the city’s most expensive hotel at the ex-
pense of the firm which sponsors the radio
programme. They go the whole hog with
the expense sheet, offering their hospi-
tality to the visiting owner of the concern
which is paying for it. He, by one of
the usual tangled film situations, is un-
aware that he is meeting the bill and
launches himself whole-heartedly into a
glorious spree with the two marines.
The whole business tangles itself up as
easily as a dry gut line on a windy day
when the big fellows are biting. The un-
tangling process is relatively as difficult,
but with slightly more humor. Keenan
Wynn, as the young hero’s voluble and
scheming cobber, is the mainspring of the
doings, followed closely by Edward
Arnold, as the businessman who throws
his money around with the utmost pro-
digality in the belief that it belongs to
someone else. Pat Kirkwood, as the girl
in the piece, is pleasant enough until she
yawps sentimental ditties into the micro-
phone, and Van Johnson, as the returned
hero, apparently compensates for his lack
of comedic ability with some other quality
known only to female ’teen-agers and
■ recognised by them with sighs sounding
like the mass deflation of car tyres,
“Spellbound”
“Cauboy”: If the late Dr. Sigmund
Freud returned from Valhalla, or
wherever psychoanalysts go to, and
dropped in at Melbourne Capitol to see
this amazing picture he would be
astounded. One of his chief bugbears
was the observed fact that at a certain
stage of treatment the patient always
tended to fall in love with the physician
and he or she had to be weaned from
this obsession before a cure could be
effected.
This is no bugbear to Alfred Hitch-
cock, confector of the film in question.
In fact, it is right up his alley, inasmuch
as the physician is Ingrid Bergman. She
is a beautiful young psychologist at an
important psychopathic institution which
is expecting a new superintendent. When
he arrives, in the person of Gregory
Peck, Miss Bergman instantly recognises
that he is an impostor, and learns from
him that he is suffering from amnesia and
is obsessed with the belief that he has
murdered the man he is impersonating.
Miss Bergman takes the case in hand
and promptly falls in love with her
patient.
Freud also said that love is a psychosis,
so Miss Bergman is as much in need of
treatment as her patient. This doesn’t
bother Mr. Hitchcock, either. He con-
trives a situation where the doctor has
to restore the memory of her patient and
remove his obsession and has to smuggle
him half across the country with the
police one lap behind therp. Dr, Freud
never thought of a setting like this for
a prolonged excursion into the un-
conscious, but it provides Mr. Hitchcock
with some sensational situations ac-
companied with musical obbligato.
It turps out in the upshot that the
murder was committed by the principal
of the hospital, who was anxious to re-
move a rival. The way is now clear for
the doctor to marry her patient. If Freud
had only thought of that way out psycho-
analysis would have been very different.
“Harvest Gold”
A wheatgrower who is “married” to
horses and won’t have tractors on at any
price is stripping his wheat when he
takes ill and has to go to bed. Word
comes from the city that a cyclone is
approaching the district, so all the tractor-
owning cockies for miles around gather
to the fray, put their machines into the
stricken man’s crop, work all day, then
switch op their headlights and work half
the night, just getting the last grain into
the last bag as the storm comes down.
This, of course, heals a feud between the
sick cocky and a neighbor, converts the
former to tractors and the thing ends
happily with the quondam horseman joy-
fully driving what looked suspiciously
like an orchard tractor along a suburban
street, what time his former feudist leans
happily on a tram-stop post. Such is the
plot of “Harvest Gold,” made by the
Caltex Oil people.
Several things weren’t explained, most
notable being the secret of how to strip
ripe wheat at night, what happened to
the other fellows’ crops in the storm,
when did wheatgrowers’ wives begin
cooking on gas stoves, how many two-
storied houses are there in the wheat-
belt, how long have shire councils been
meeting without clerk and engineer in
attendance, when did country mailmen
begin delivering city dailies from a bundle
of papers under an arm and —but why
go on? These things probably mean
nothing to metropolitan audiences, but if
observant rural audiences laugh loudly
nobody need assume they are tickled by
the slapstick antics of the comic who is
supposed to be a wheatgrower.
Scenery and photography were excel-
lent, sound effects atrocious, acting fair
enough. The Caltex people deserved
' better advice. “Harvest Gold” proves
clearly, as do so many other Australian
documentaries having to do with our rural
life, that there exists a vast and yawn-
ing opportunity for some observant bush-
whacker to start himself in business as a
sort of technical adviser to film-
smiths. —C. S.
“Two Years Before the Mast”
Except for a few minor additions and
modifications, Paramount has done a
good and faithful job with Richard
Henry Dana’s record of the hardships
suffered by merchant seamen at the be-
ginning of the last century. The film, at
Sydney Prince Edward, makes a vigorous,
straightforward story of a fanatical
skipper with a passion for breaking
records at the expense of the health and
lives of his crews. Howard da Silva, as
the captain, dominates the film with a
fine stretch of cold, precise acting; sup-
porting him is a cast of strong, masculine
players—Brian Donlevy, Albert Dekkqr,
Alan Ladd —and the facile Irish comic,
Barry Fitzgerald. They all fit their parts
so well that the brief intrusion of a girl
on the ship is as incidental as it is ineffec-
tive and unnecessary,
“Without Reservations”
This light, subtle comedy, at Sydney
Mayfair, is put over by Claudette Colbert,
John Wayne and Don de Fore. There
are few gags in it, and no gas-stoves ex-
ploding—just the humorous things which
human beings are capable of doing as part
of their everyday lives. The scene in
which Miss Colbert, carrying a full load
of fuel, gives a pair of aviators a flying
lesson in a moving train’s dining car is
as funny as anything currently on show
in Sydney filmhouses.
“Smoky”
This black stallion now pig-rooting at
the Sydney Plaza is a good Christmas
holidays choice on the part of the man-
agement. Any youngster who likes
animals will love it. But, like most
animal pictures since Rin-Tin-Tin was
an active member of the Heroine-Preser-
vers’ Association, it falls a little short of
adult entertainment. Its “actors,” Anne
Baxter, Fred Mac Murray and Bruce
Cabot, are about as wooden as the pine-
trees in the technicolor background.
Stage and Concert.
Pirates, Etc.
Seeing children, all dressed up, on a
well-decorated stage, the average adult
forgets their noisier and less desirable
characteristics and sees them with the
fond eyes of illusion. At Christmas, too,
any amount of illusion can be forgiven,
and the youngsters in both the Sydney
Tiv.’s pantomime and the Minerva's
“Peter Pan” were an undeniably attractive
lot.
Among the juvenile audience there was,
of course, no lack of noise. And Jim
Gerald, as Nursie Snow-White in “Babes
in the Wood,” reinforced an excellent
piece of characterisation by sadistically
egging on his fans to new vocal heights.
Jim Gerald was good, and so was Baron
Hardup (who provoked many hearty
boos) and the Demon King and the
Good Fairy (charming in ballet skirts)
and the child ballet. Costumes and stage
effects were excellent, making a brilliant
world of fantasy. Robin Hood was gal-
lant and dashing, with a pair of legs that
should have made the Merrie Men recon-
ciled to outlawry, and everything went
with a swing, as did “Peter Pan,” with
Doreen Harrop as Peter, Barbara Brun-
ton-Gibb as Wendy and Douglas Herald
as the sinister Hook.
The accent on childhood was made,
mildly, in one of the Coward scenes in
Madge Elliott’s and Cyril *Ritchard’s
farewell matinee at Sydney Royal. It
was good Coward, witty and smooth,
with the familiar touch of sentiment. The
Victorian costumes gave it the charm of
a period piece. Madge Elliott, in black,
was very charming, and the dances and
fine support of the rest of the cast, all
with a little gilded Coward naughtiness,
made for a pleasant innocuous Coward
afternoon.
“The Kiwis”
“F.S.”: Ido not wish to appear in the
role of a puritan moralist, but if I had
my way I would ban the stage to men
masquerading as women. Personally I
think there is something obscene about
them. Women were banned from the
stage in the days of Shakspeare, and the
poor devil of a producer had to put up
with the ukase if he wanted to keep out
of jail. There may be some justification
for the female-impersonation business
under war-time conditions —soldiers in
the frontline are probably grateful for
even the illusion of feminine delicacy and
allure —but there doesn’t seem to be any
justification for the practice in peace-
time when there are lashings of the fair
sex waiting for theatrical engagements.
That is the only objection I have to
“The Kiwis,” the Melbourne Comedy
show put on by 30 male Maoriland
soldiers whose company was formed in
the dust of the Western Desert and ac-
quired fame in New Guinea, They are
talented young men, good comedians and
robust male singers, and their panel of
Maori songs is delightful. Their camp-
fire humor is all in order, though
familiar.
But their “women” are all men, and
don’t look like women or sound like
them, either —if a woman appeared in the
street with hands and legs like the Kiwi
“women” she would be regarded as a
monstrosity and attract the attention of
the sleepiest policeman. The Kiwi
“women” look like dames in a panto-
mime, and the laughter they produce is
the laughter of acute embarrassment.
“Mary Stuart”
The first night of Frederick Schiller’s
“Mary Stuart” at the Independent, North
Sydney, was marred by exaggeration.
The fault was so widespread that there
seem grounds for suspecting it was a
matter of direction rather than individual
liking. Jean Robertson, for instance, as
Mary Queen of Scots, has a fine presence
and a beautiful speaking voice. Yet she
was for ever flourishing her hand near
her right ear in a manner more befitting
a fishwife than a queen. In a stormy
scene with Burleigh (Frank O’Donnel)
the manual byplay became almost comic
—like a Punch and Judy show.
Doris Fitton, as Elizabeth, avoided the
common fault and acted very well in-
deed, at times assuming a kind of leonine
dignity and a hair-trigger asperity, which
accorded well with the character of the
contradictory and dangerous Queen of
England.
Artbursts.
Latimer and Sennett
F. Latimer and H. Sennett (Assembly
Hall, Melbourne) were National Gallery
pupils and Diggers of the 1914-18 war,
and it is 20 years since they held their
last show. The wars between tradition-
alists, fundamentalists, vorticists, sur-
realists and child-art experts have passed
them by as if they were a pair of Rip
Van Winkles, which, in case of fact, they
haven’t been, since they have done a lot
of painting. One of Mr. Sennett’s pictures
even represents the mud, slush and duck-
boards of Flanders, and is just as con-
vincing as any of the impressions of
latterday artists. They both paint in a
solid manner, and some of Mr. Latimer’s
large landscapes are reminiscent of
Streeton. His companion gets a nice
effect in “Rising Mist” and “Spring
Morning, Kinglake.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND—
In Divorce.
TO GEORGE MORRIS formerly of Dalmeney Avenue,
Rosebery, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
a member of. the Australian Military Forces but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.—TAKE
NOTICE that an action has been commenced against
you in the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane
by Writ of Summons Numbered 53 of 1945 by
Edward Charles Arrowsmith in which he claims a
dissolution of his marriage with his wife JOSE-
PHINE JOAN ARROWSMITH and by his Petition
filed herein he alleges that on divers occasions during
the months of April, May, June and July 1944 at
Dalmeney Avenue, Rosebery, Sydney, in the State
of New South Wales, you committed adultery with
the said JOSEPHINE JOAN ARROWSMITH And
it has been ordered that service of the said Writ
and Petition on you be effected by publishing this
notice once in “The Bulletin” (published at Sydney
in the State of New South Wales) and once in “The
Sydney Morning Herald” and once in “The Sydney
Sun” both being newspapers published at Sydney
aforesaid at intervals of at least seven days between
the first and the second and at least seven days
between the second and the third of such publi-
cations. If you desire to defend this action you
must within thirty days from the last day on which
any such publication is made enter an appearance at
the Registry of the said Court and in default of
your so doing the Plaintiff may by leave proceed in
the action and judgment may be given against you
in your absence. DATED this Seventeenth day of
December, 1946. — (1.5.) J. J. HERLIHY, Acting
Second Deputy Registrar. The Plaintiff’s Solicitors
are Messrs. FEATHER, WALKER & DELANEY, of
289 Queen Street, Brisbane.
tired feet?
Hot. tired feet need
this treatment
ment application. iry tu |
trio.
532 V*"
fiiticura
V* OINTMENT
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOU SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILLRUM.
There must have been a good many who
gave the maiden performer Haxton a strong
chance of beating the fair sort of field in the
Summer Cup at Randwick on Boxing Day—
anyway, Haxton started at 10 to 1, only Open
Air, Silver Link and Prince Verity being pre-
ferred. With G. Podmore up, Haxton carried
6.12 —a mere feather, though still 41b. over-
weight. Another lightweight. Deep Sky, did
the early pacemaking, with Podmore allowing
Haxton to settle down at the tail of the field
till approaching the half-mile, where he began
to move up. Open Air ran past Deep Sky at
the turn and Silver Link hit theTfpnt at the
leger, but, taken wide to race straight down
the centre of the track, Haxton took the lead
50 yards from the post, and, with his weight
advantage of 301 b., ran on to a good win from
Silver Link and Open Air.
Haxton, a five-year-old mare, carries the
colors of W. Kelso, who has her on lease
from Hunter White, the owner himself repre-
sented in the race by Qpen Air. Both Haxton
and Open Air are by the Solario horse Fresco,
in whose pedigree, as in that of Haxtpn’s dam
Spearfoot, there’s a trace of the Carbine blood.
Haxton’s win says something for the class of
the Enfield colt Le Fusil, who at two succes-
sive starts recently in restricted company gave
Haxton weight and a beating.
Up to the running of the- Summer Cup the
books had- been having a torrid day. Each
of the previous five fields had contained an
apparent good thing, and all five good things
duly romped home. The Oaks winner. Sweet
Chime, made very short work of Lithesome,
Royal Court and other three-year-old fillies in
the Mersey Stakes over a mile. Considering
that she was meeting a moderate bunch at
level weights, Sweet Chime’s price at 2 to 1
on was surprisingly good.
In a special weights Trial Stakes Yaralla’s
full brother Abokina, beating Herbert River
and Courier, won his second race from four
starts and won it impressively. There was only
1-2 betting in the December Stakes, with
only three starters, one of them the brilliant
Temeraire, who, of course, won it from Nizam’s
Ring and Sovereign. After his. good effort
in the Villiers, Wellington appreciated the fur-
long less of the Chisholm Handicap, which he
won from Titanic and Souvenir. In the AJ.C.
Handicap, Silent, securing a lucky opening with
half a furlong to go, passed the post just
shading Constable and Lord Neith, but a pro-
test was entered which had backers of Silent
on tenterhooks for more than half an hour.
Stewards decided that there had been .inter-
ference, but not sufficient to affect the result;
protest dismissed and Silent’s jockey, W. Cook,
out for two months.
* * * *
For Tatt’s Cup today (New Year’s Day)
Haxton has copped a 61b. penalty, but at that
has only 7.2 and so must have a good chance
again, with Immediate and Open Air also well
in it. \ /
* * # ‘ /*
Chief item on the bill for Tattersall’s meeting
at Randwick on Saturday was the 60th running
of the six-furlongs Carrington Stakes. Con-
ditions of the Carrington provide a penalty of
up to 101 b. for the winner of the Villiers and,
curiously, the Summer Cup. Bernborough last
year was given only a 41b. penalty, but then he
had cawicd a solid weight, 9.2, in winning the
Villiers. Native Son won the Villiers with 8.1,
and was bumped up to 8.8 for the Carrington,,
which he won as he pleased, beating the sur-
prisingly well-backed Lakshmi Vallis and Puff-
ham. Lakshmi Vallis should soon make
amends; ever-honest Puffham is either not quite
as good as he was or else, and more likely,
the handicapper has his measure. Since Puffham
never runs a bad race he is worth keeping in
mind for the day when either the handicapper
relents or an apprentice allowance enables him
to go out with something under 9st.
Even allowing for the extra distance outside
the false rail, Native Son’s time, 1.13, was-slow
for a Carrington. Bernborough, also using the
outer course, clocked I.IOJ-. Munro rode
Native Son and, having been successful on two
hot favorites of late, was greeted with cries of
“Good on y’, Darb!” Let him be fairly and
squarely beaten on another favorite next week
and the same voices will be yelling “Rub ’im
out! ”
With Cook, Briscoe, Fordyce, Mulley and
others temporarily “on the shelf” some of the
less fashionable jockeys and more inexperienced
apprentices are getting opportunities, especially
in big fields. An Encourage and two divisions
of a Novice each had 24 starters, about half
of them claiming apprentice allowances. Beau
Pebble (G. Podmore), at 33 to 1, accounted for
Pitt and The Cad in the first Novice, while Dis-
card (F. Walker), at 16 to 1, beat Love Star
and Lord Rex in the second division. Bun-
dagen (A. Ward) was at least in the first half-
dozen in the betting on the Encourage, whtch
he won from The Doctor and Hemisphere.
Though he’s admittedly a fairly good miler,
Immediate seemed considerably over-handicapped
with 11.8 in the Welter, for which the minimum
was 7.7. Next in the weights, with 9st., was
Barnsley, who, with a 51b. allowance for appren-
tice B. Robards, carried only 8.9 and won from
Cavalero and Peter Con. By way of compari-
son, they’re running a* hurdle race at Flem-
ington today (New Year’s Day) for which the
minimum is 9st. and in that the topweight has
only 11.1. Immediate also accepted for Satur-
day’s Denman Handicap. He has not won be-
yond a mile in Australia, yet for the Denman
10 furlongs was asked to concede weight to
Cordale, Peter, Modulation, Silent and a few
others. Man o’ War (J- Thompson), won the
event from Rotten Row and Peter.
Showing a good return on the 325 guineas
he cost as a yearling, Prince Mohican made his
record two seconds and a win from three starts
by downing Airs and Graces and Wilcuma in
the Juvenile. Interesting to see Wilcuma run a
place at, his first start, as he is of the first crop
of the imported stallion Keelie. A son of
English Derby winner Cameronian, Keelie won
the Nottinghamshire Handicap in England, and
then, brought to Australia, acclimatised well,
winning a host of good races at up to a mile
and a half.
* * * *
A curiosity of Saturday’s racing at Mentone
was the high disdain with which punters re-
garded the chances of Miss Prim in the
Summer Handicap over 13 furlongs. As a
last-start winner she had much better form than
any of her half-dozen opponents. Not un-
naturally, the books opened her favorite at
7to 4, but they found few takers. Maccles-
“Cripes, we'll soon have them all out !”
field was the popular choice at 7 to 2, Miss
Prim drifted to fours, with Skyway and a
couple of others well backed at 9to 2; strange
betting.
Skyway made the best showing of the others
who were backed, trying to lead all the way and
just failing to last it out; Miss Prim first,
-with the outsider, Irate, a distant third.
Despite his having been beaten by Vaninka
the previous week, St. Dandy was made
favorite for the Sorrento Stakes, with Edward
John also preferred to Vaninka. ' Neither ran
a place, Vaninka (B. Eames) winning the six-
furlongs event quite comfortably from Guraki
and Private Chat. At least punters didn’t over-
look the consistently good form of the John
James colt Birmingham (A. Breasley), whose
consistency was rewarded by a good win from
Leros and Vrondi in the Beaumaris Handicap
for two-year-olds.
Zanette, Breech and Snow Screen, all by En-
field, gave their sire a good Boost by filling, in
that order, the places in the 10-furlongs Wood-
leigh Handicap for three-year-olds. A winner
of the English Cesarewitch, Enfield is, as one
would expect from the name, a descendant of
Carbine, and has shown ability to transmit his
staying quality by producing winners of a Mel-
bourne Cup, a V.R.C. Derby and the Oaks.
Run in two divisions, the Talgarno Welter
gave the books a couple of fair results. The
first might have been successfully picked by
printers, crossword-puzzle experts and others
who know an “em” when thqy see one, the
places being filled by Minanalaes, Miradale
and Marocain; the last-named caused connec-
tions a spot of bother by weighing in 211 b.
overweight. In the second division Finlarig
and Encircler were just pipped by Solstar, who
holds the rather dubious distinction of having
once returned the record tote dividend of £696-
odd. With topweight of 9.1, the Law Maker
horse El Banco (K. Smith) turned in a good
effort to down Lord Baden and Waldorf over
the seven furlongs of the Rosebud Handicap.
* * * *
Paddy Connolly, one of the very few Austra-
lians who have made money owning and punting
and held it (others were Ned Moss and Eric
Connolly, though Eric didn’t cut up for much),
is dead in Perth (W.A.) at 80. An unsurpassed
judge of a horse, Connolly had a wonderful
run for a dozen years from 1904 with
neddies from his stable, notably Blue Spec (Kal-
goorlie Cup, Melbourne Cup, Perth Cup),
Jolly Beggar (Karrakatta Plate, W.A. Derby,
Perth Cup, A.J.C. Doncaster), Dyed Garments
and Lilyveil (both Sydney Cup). His Perth
Cup record for seven consecutive years: first
with Blue Spec, Czarovitch, May King, Post
Town, Scorcher and Jolly Beggar and second (to
Loch Shiel in 1909) with Jolly Beggar. Con-
nolly had a way of being suspicious of jockeys
(to one, accused of “taking me on,” he had
to pay damages, and he also lost a libel action
against a newspaper), but he was known to do
very generous things. One of his prot6g£s long
ago was Charlie Frazer, P.M.G. in the second
Fisher Ministry, whose share of the successful
plunge on Dyed Garments in the 1908 Sydney
Cup was £2000; but success was too much
for poor Frazer and he died young.
* * * *
Apart from Shannon in the Epsom and Bern-
borough in the Caulfield Cup, the most re-
markable racing upset of the past year has been
the phenomenal success <of French horses in
England, of which the London “Times” re-
marked “The year 1946 will be remembered in
racing history as the first year in which the
horses of any other country had real success
in England.”
Again from the “Times,” and what most
worried English breeders: “The best of them
were stayers. Caracalla 11, a handsome un-
beaten four-year-old colt, won the Gold Cup
at Ascot with ease. Marsyas II won five of
our greater distance races. Souverain won the
newly-formed and heavily-endowed King George
VI Stakes over two miles in runaway style,
beating Airborne, ‘ our Derby and St. Leger
winner.”
The effect of the French horses was seen not
so much in the quantity but in the quality of
their wins; they picked the plums. The Aga
Khan was the leading owner for the English
season with 34 races won and £24,454 in stakes;
the French owner M. M. Boussac, who was,
second on the list, won only 12 races, but they
were worth £21,377. Much further down the
list the Maharaja of Baroda also won 34 races,
worth £14,353 in all. His Majesty won 16
races and £16,539 in stakes. M. Boussac’s
winners of 12 races also placed him third on
the list of leading breeders; here the Aga
Khan was sixth with 35 winners and £16,923.
A variety of explanations of the Frencn
supremacy have been advanced, but the most
obvious seems to have been missed ; the simple
matter of fodder; the difference between Eng-
lish horses subsisting on anything that could
be raked up during the war years and the
French stock thriving on the best of German
oats. One recent visitor to these parts who
upholds that theory is the ex-Sydney jockey
“Togo” Johnstone. Johnstone has been riding
in France for many years, though he spent the
war years in a Fritz internment camp.
About the poorest explanation put forward
in England was that of Lord Brabazon, who
suggested that horses were losing because of the
poor riding of English jockeys. That fetched
a bite from the right quarter in Gordon
Richards, who has once again headed the
jockeys’ list with 212 winning mounts for the
season. Fourth on the list, with 91 winners
from a comparatively small number of mounts,
was the Australian Edgar Britt, who has a nice
job these days, being retained by the Maharaja
of Baroda.' The Maharaja is very open-
handed with his bawbees or rupees. Next to
Britt was Harjy Wragg, who retired at the end
of the season. He rounded off his career in
a way that all jockeys would hope to do, brmg :
ing home three winners in the afternoon; his
last mount in a race was Las Vegas, on which
he won the important Manchester November
Handicap at 20 to 1.
The French made what appeared either a
confident or a generous gesture in throwing
open almost all their classic races to British
competition—previously only French horses had
been eligible. They went further by cancelling
and reopening entries so that English horses
could enter for the 1947 French Derby, Oaks
and St. Leger. However, it’s a rather one-
sided arrangement, as the prizemoney in France
is so poor as to be unlikely to tempt English
owners, except those prepared to go to some
expense to uphold the national honor. The
best French race, the Grand Prix, is worth only
£5OOO. The French Derby is worth £3200 to
the winner, the Oaks £lBOO and the St. Leger
£2300. By comparison, French horses won
£40,000 on the English turf in the final four
months of the past season.
What must really hurt English breeders is
that most of the outstanding French horses
are bred from stock originally purchased in
England; now English breeders are buying new
blood from France.
* * * «
Weather v. Cricket:
By the time they have finished this tour the
Englishmen should have a very mixed idea of
Australian weather. Both the first Test in
Brisbane and the second in Sydney were in-
terrupted the Brisbane ope decided —by
thunderstorms, and they’d struck plenty of
dampness before that, in Canberra they ran
into sizzling heat and a fair sort of duststorm,
and then had a thunderstorm for variety.
Hammond, Compton and several more of them
gave Canberra a feast of bright batting in a
match against Southern Districts, the two
named hitting up 118 in 62 minutes, after
Hutton had belted the bowling for 133 and
Washbrook for 115.
Weather also took a hand in the Queensland
S.A. Sheffield Shield match at Adelaide, where,
largely through a fine knock by W. Morris (162
not out), Queensland hit up a first-innings 401.
Dooland’s four wickets cost 114 runs. S.A.
failing by 20 minutes to play out the day and
make a draw of it, Queensland won on the
first innings by 105 runs. L. Johnson bagged
seven of the S.A. wickets for 60.
Against N.S.W. at Melbourne Victoria played
havoc with the bowling of Lindwall (1 for
100), Toshack (none for 133) and others, Harvey
scoring 136 before Lindwall bowled him, and
Miller 153 before he was run out. The N.S.W.
bats also did only moderately in the first
innings (total 205). Once again weather took
a hand, rain washing out play on Saturday.
/** * *
lii the earlier Shield play Victoria piled up
543 against Queensland, which collapsed for
153 and 258; Victoria won by an innings and
132 runs. Jinks, a newcomer to big cricket,
got eight wickets for 107 for Victoria. At
Adelaide S.A. (603 and two for 243) defeated
N.S.W. (461 and six for 99) by 142 on the
first innings. For S.A. Hamence, who scored
116 v. Victoria, hit up 132 and 101 not out.
* * * Hf
A striking proof that there’s still nothing
wrong with Bradman’s bat is that his Sydney
Test score of 234 was hit up in 6hr. 31min„
comparing well with his 270 in 7hr. 38min. and
212 in 7hr. 17min., both v. Allen’s team in the
1936-37 series. The good scoring rate was
further pointed by Barnes having taken lOhr.
42min. for the same score in the Sydney part-
nership.
Edrich’s 119 in Sydney was his first Test
century v. Australia, and the first three-figure
knock by an English player in Tests this season.
Oddly, Edrich had earlier made scores of 71
against S.A., Q. and in the first innings of the
second Test.
♦-* • •
It’s little wonder that big tennis has
escaped becoming a medium of big bet-
ting—some of the reversals of form
are fairly staggering. In the finals of the
Victorian championships, Bromwich beat
the American Ted Schroeder in straight
sets ; in the first match of the Davis Cup
challenge round, Schroeder beat Brom-
wich 3-6, 6-1, 6-2, 0-6, 6-3. That was the
beginning of the end for Australia. Pails
put up a pretty good show against Kramer
before going down 8-6, 6-2, 9-7, which
left the Australians the slender chance of
repeating the 1939 performance of taking
the final three matches: The faint ray of
hope was quickly extinguished in the
doubles, Kramer and Schroeder outclass-
ing Bromwich and Quist for a straight-
sets victory, 6-2, 7-5, 6-4. Thus theJDavis
Cup, which Australia has had the distinc-
tion of having held through two world
wars, returns to its homeland.
* * *
In the 35 finals for the Davis Cup—
U.S.A. defeated British Isles in the first
match at Boston in 1900 —U.S.A. has
won 13 challenge rounds (runner-up 15
times). Great Britain nine, Australasia
seven and France six. Australasia’s wins
on home courts were at Melbourne
(1908), Sydney (1909), Christchurch (1911)
and Sydney (1919), United States de-
feated Australasia at Auckland in 1920.
Australasia’s wins overseas were at
Wimbledon, defeating British Isles
(1907); New York, defeating U.S.A. in
1914 ; and Philadelphia, defeating U.S.A.
in 1939. There was no challenge in 1910,
and the competitions were put aside for
both world wars.
* . * * *
“Golesneak”: They tell me some film
company or other is making a picture
called “Out of the Ruck,” with Aus-
tralian Rules football as its theme. I’ll
book an early seat. As newsreels have
shown lately, there’s no more photo-
genic game.
sH * * *
Boxing prospers nowhere without local
talept, and few classy Australians were
developed in 1946. Lightweight champ.
Vic Patrick and dual title-holder (middle
and light-heavyweight) Dave Sands stand
right out from the rest; they’re to be
given a chance against imported pugs.
Brisbane idol Tommy Burns, acclaimed
provisional welter champion after Patrick
relinquished that title, meets Welshman
Ronnie James at Sydney Stadium on
January 13. Burns, however, looks more
like a* middleweight, and experts doubt
his ability to make the 10-7 welter limit.
Mickey Tollis, who hails from Newcastle,
is the only young lightweight to show
much promise.


WriJIWESI
sb/aim a
[aiala/inj
at al ai tel
m]
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLATE AIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN P6PE;
ALLEN G. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. Y. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
PITFALLS await
the inexperienced
EXECUTOR.
The choice of your Executor is almost as
important as your Will itself. The duties of
Executorship are highly technical and pitfalls
abound for the inexperienced.
You will do well to consider the advantages
that you will give your beneficiaries by the
appointment of Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) as your Executor and Trustee.
The Company has specialized in this work for
over .60 years. Although it handles a great
volume of business there is nothing impersonal
or mechanical in its service.
The instructions of the Testator are faithfully
and efficiently carried out while the Company’s
service to beneficiaries is personal, friendly
and courteous.
You might call and discuss the matter with a senior officer.
If you prefer, send for a copy of the Company’s booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee ’’ which explains the service the
Company renders and the cost of it.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord's Place, Orange.
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Northern Districts Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance Building,
Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
©
m
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Free Sharemarket
When the Stock Exchanges throughout
Australia open on Monday, January 6,
1947, trading free from Treasury control
(but subject to limited daily price-rises
until the transitional period is past)
will be resumed for the first time since
the middle of February, 1942. And so
will end one of the most useless and
“political” of controls introduced by, the
Labor Government under the National
Security Regulations.
In the five years of “controlled” deal-
ings there has been a general rise in the
price of shares; based partly on inflation,
partly on the fall in interest rates, partly
on the unsatisfied demand ahead of all
industry. February, 1942, saw the fall of
Singapore, and all Australia’s fortunes
seemed at low ebb. Share prices col-
lapsed, As conditions improved the
Treasury allowed periodical revisions in
prices, but the effect was that of all kinds
of rationing ; speculative prices were paid
because it was felt that the next revision
would bring higher prices still, with
greater scarcity. Eventually a ceiling was
put on all shares, based on September,
1941, quotes. This remained in force
until the end of the war with Japan, when
percentage additions to quotations were
allowed occasionally. It can be
fairly said that, from the time ceiling
prices were established until the end of
August, 1946, the sharemarket as a whole
was one in which buyers predominated,
and in which the majority of leading
stocks were jammed at the ceiling price.
At the end of August last an explana-
tion of production difficulties by the
chairman of B.H.P. brought the first
market setback in several years; B.H.P.
scrip led the plunge, with a large fol-
lowing. The fact that there had been no
fall in share prices for a long period
added to the reaction. B.H.P. shares and
a number of others which slumped have
since returned to, or near to, their ceil-
ing price, but Australian Consolidated
Industries (Glass) and Colonial Sugar are
examples which are still available at well
below the ceiling. Obviously there
will be no sharp rise in these two issues
merely because the price-ceiling goes off
on January 1.
Other stocks still offered below the ceil-
ing price have been Australasian Paper,
British Tobacco, Bond’s Industries, Yarra
Falls, Adelaide Steam and other coastal
shipping cos., Carlton Brewery, picture-
show scrip. Electrolytic Zinc, Meggitt,
Goldsbrough Mort and W. R. Carpenter.
This depression in prices is principally
the aftermath of the August break, which
was partly based on yields, partly on the
labor position. For various reasons these
stocks have remained depressed where
many others have recovered.
In B.H.P.’s case there has been an in-
crease in the dividend —the interim was
at the rate of 1\ p.c., compared with
5 p.c. for last year. This came as a sur-
prise even to many of the stock’s chief
supporters, but it is becoming generally
recognised that labor troubles and taxa-
tion alone at the present time prevent
B.H.P. from making the profits which the
efficiency and magnitude of the under-
taking and the market for its products
warrant. The co. has no leeway to make
up on the financial side when current
earnings rise to a reasonable size. Cur-
rent earnings can become current divi-
dends. The Stock Exchange closed for
the vacation with B.H.P. shares fluctuat-
ing within a shilling or so of the ceiling
price—48s. 9d.
Bank of N. S. Wales £2O shares, pegged
by the Treasury at £34 155., will be in
demand in the free market. The fixed
price is amply covered by asset values,
and the yield available was 3.7 p.c. on
the new div. rate at the close of
’Change. Tooth scrip, now at 68s. 3d.,
is also likely to rise. Morris Hedstrom
ords. are assured of a very great lift,
within the daily limits to be allowed by
’Change committees; pegged at 335. 3d.,
they are nearly double that price in New
Zealand. And New Broken Hill Con-
solidated shares, not allowed to move
above 235. 6d. in Australia during 1946
(though nearly 20s, higher in London),
are certain to see a much bigger price in
1947. North Broken Hill and Zinc Corp.
are also priced higher in London than
in Australia.
Gordon and Gotch ords. will go be-
yond the peg of 655. in the new year ;
they yielded nearly 6 p.c. to lucky buyers
at the ceiling price. Masonite ords.,
static at 345. 6d. for months, are also
assured of a rise ; the div. is 8 p.c. and
prospects are highly encouraging. Hud-
dart Parker is one of the few shipping
concerns immobilised by pegging at the
close of the year; a lift above 575. 3d.
is indicated by Maoriland transactions.
Bradford Cotton left the peg only for
a short period during the market set-
back ; it has stuck at 51s. 9d. for the
past couple of months, and may now go
higher. Selfridges at 265. 9d. have been
undervalued by about 14s, a share on
N.Z. quotations. Woolworths and G. J.
Coles shares are only slightly below trans-
Tasman prices. United Provisions ords.
closed for 1946 at the ceiling of 225. 3d.
Div. for the last two years has been 8 p.c.
p.a. Pre-war profits history of the co.
was not good, and in September, 1941,
the shares were below 9s. in spite of a
generally buoyant market. TJie co. con-
trols Huttons and Foggitt Jones, and has
therefore had a close interest in war-
time canning and bacon-curing activity.
Current profits justify a higher market
for the shares, but, taking the long view,
there are chances that the canning indus-
try in Australia, will prove to be over-
capitalised. At the same time United
Provisions has had a good opportunity
to put its financial affairs in thorough
order, and, with past sad experience be-
hind it, should have made some prepara-
tion for contingencies.
Cement shares have been in demand
recently. In N. S. Wales the 16s. scrip
in Kandos has been sought at the ceil-
ing price of 41s. Australian Cement £1
shares in Melbourne have a ceiling of
535. 9d., and there have been dealings
lately at 51s. 6d. The two cos. control
a common working co., and shares of
£lOO par value in Kandos represent 148
shares in the working concern, compared
with 131 in the case of Australian
Cement.
All listed insurance concerns have
had keen buyers at the ceiling. In
N.Z. the shares of the Queensland co. are
20s. higher, South British 12s. and N.Z.
Insurance 13s. higher.
Comparative newcomers to the share-
list . are McPhersons, Gordon Edgell
(N.S.W. vegetable-canners), Foy and Gib-
son, N.Z. Forest Products and Ready
Mixed Concrete, Active among unlisted
stocks are Burlington Mills, Bruck Mills,
Bitumen and Oil Refineries and Brown
and Bureau. Mcllwraith, McEacharn
scrip, pref. and ord., is likely to have
an active market early in 1947. The co.
has recently been made a public concern.
The free sharemarket of 1947 (subject
to controlled daily rises) opens with
the interest rate on long-term Con-
sols fixed at £3 2s. 6d. per cent, and the
short-term rate at £2 per cent. In Febru-
ary, 1942, the rates were £3 ss. and £2 10s.
per cent, respectively. Before the war
the yield offered on long-term bonds was
about £3 17s. 6d. per cent, and on short-
term issues about £3 10s. per cent.
On two-year fixed deposits 3 p.c. was
paid in 1939 ; present rate is lj p.c. In-
terest rate on N.S.W. first mortgages has
fallen from an average of 5.5 p.c. in 1939
to 4.7 p.c. this year.
During the period of pegged share
prices many other costs, prices and values
rose at a higher rate than share quotations.
The cost of establishing new businesses
has undoubtedly become greater than the
book valuations placed on most existing
industrial undertakings. It follows
that, in view of the depreciation
that has occurred in the buying-
power of Australian currency during
and since the war, a rise in share
prices over pre-war figures seems logical
—almost inevitable. But this position
exists in fact only up to a point. Once
a business could be said to be worth as
much as its earning power. Nowadays it
is worth as much as labor and the
Prices Branch allow thq business’s
capacity for earning to demonstrate itself,
less deductions for the heavy, special
taxation which incorporated companies
are compelled to carry.
During, the war the return to investors
in industry fell away, even though wages
to persons employed in industry have
risen steeply. Commonwealth Bank
statistics show, that average business and
industrial dividends have declined from
6 p.c. on invested funds since 1939 to
about 5.2 p.c. this year. And that is ex-
pressed in terms of money the buying-
power of which has dropped by nearly a
third in actual practice. True, rates on
fixed-interest securities may have fallen
more heavily. But it is plain that the pro-
ductive side of industry is suffering a
heavy reduction in income cbmpared
with conditions as they existed before
the war.
At the present time there exists before
industry a prospect of great activity—
provided labor is prepared to work will-
ingly and not wantonly. There likewise
exist possibilities of profits commensur-
ate with this activity provided prices are
not kept artificially depressed by official-
dom, and provided taxation does not con-
tinue at socialistic levels. Obstructive
forces are at present clouding these pros-
pects and possibilities. Those who have
faith; in the country’s future also have
hopes that the obstructionism will be
defeated.
As time goes by and, when labor starts
doing a fair thing again, competitive sell-
ing takes the place of chronic scarcity in
industry, there will be a sorting-out of
businesses according to their managerial
capacity and financial strength. During
the war profits have been low but
assured. ’Later on the well-run enterprise
will take a bigger share of trade and
profit to itself, and the effect on lesser
concerns may be severe. The position
will be reflected in share prices. And
now that a free sharemarket is ahead
there may be preliminary readjustments
on a wide scale, with interest concentrated
on stocks that previously were jammed
at ceiling levels, and with a consequent
reaction in second-grade securities,
A Sydney sweets-manufacturing con-
cern, Miss Daveney Pty., Ltd., appealed
to the High Court against its conviction
under the prices regulations. The company,
though its prices had not changed since
1938, had increased its rate of gross profit
from about 19 p.c. to about 37 p.c.
(This was not an uncommon tendency
during the war because sales generally
were inclined to expand and pro rata sell-
ing costs were reduced.) It was argued
by the appellant that price-control should
not extend to profits-control, and it
claimed that its steady prices showed that
there had been no profiteering. The
Bench was equally divided in its opinion
of the case, and the view of Chief Justice
Latham prevailed. In his opinion the
action of the Prices Commissioner in
taking gross profits into account when
considering prices was not irrelevant, and
individual traders could be considered
in such a case without dealing with a
whole industry. The regulations expressly
contemplated differentiation between
traders, and it was hard to see how dif-
fdtentiation could be exercised except
through paying regard to profits earned
by individual enterprises. Justices Rich,
Starke and Williams were of the opinion
that profit-control was beyond the scope
of the regulations. It will be noted that
this case dealt with gross-profit margins,
not net profits. There have been com-
plaints that the Prices Branch has also
judged some businesses on a net-profit
basis, but such allegations are repudiated
by price-controllers.
* * * *
The United States appears to be de-
finitely concerned about the danger of a
recession or a depression in thfe un-
pleasantly near future. This notwith-
standing that 58 million Americans are
gainfully employed, and that the un-
employed (including unemployables)
amount to only 2,000,000. Chief ground
for this depression fear is that, while
prices for most things have risen sharply,
production in many essential lines has
not followed prices up, largely because
the record employment is not turning out
a record amount of goods and services.
Things which are in adequate production
are already regarded by merchants as
doubtful stock. Bewildered by the strikes,
blackmarket operations, speculation,
high prices for so many things and com-
parative lack of economic control before,
during and since America's participation
in the war, many U.S. citizens feel that
something must bust before long. This
in itself is a slump factor, especially since
intemperate spending at high prices has
exhausted the war-time savings of some
sections. It is quite likely that before
long there will be a slump of limited
duration and proportions in the United
States based on anomalies as they exist in
that country. But the prospect still
facing the world is underproduction, and
a slump in the U.S.A. might provide the
spur required to bring labor to its senses.
¥ * * %
Under new Commonwealth regulations
a company may, without Treasury con-
sent, raise £25,000 of new capital and
mortgage money in a period of two years.
Up till now the raising of £lO,OOO of
capital and £l5OO of mortgage money
has been allowed each 12 months.
Maximum amount of mortgage only
a person or company will now be
able to raise without special permission
is £5OOO a year, compared with £l5OO
hitherto. Issues of bonus shares by
companies are still controlled.


Contractors to Government Municipal ,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jackson
O'SULUVAN
■-% prma
MARK-
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
•
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“ JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
END your RUPTURE
■
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and IJf days’ jree
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
INTERESTING BOOKS
AUSTRALIAN JOURNEY, by Paul McGuire, with 33 illustrations
and a map. 13/6 (post 6d.).
THE BUNYIP, and other mythical monsters and legends, by Charles
Barrett. Illustrated. 9/6 (post 6d.).
ISLE OF MOUNTAINS, roaming through Tasmania, by Charles
Barrett. Numerous illustrations. 12/6 (post Bd.),
THE AUSTRALIAN PEOPLE 1788-1945, by Brian Fitzpatrick.
12/6 (post 6d.).
ADDLED ART, by Lionel Lindsay. New and revised edition.
9/6 (post 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
*
THAT*
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, Illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
Importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - B. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Bl^ck,
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. B. Overton, A.E.I.A*
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPAN.Y LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: 1 '8U5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
bp
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking
out an endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“The A.C.A”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
accounts and progress, refer to “The Bulletin” annual analyses.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office; A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
D. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
\ Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States .
LEA 6
PERMS
SAUCE
THE SAUCE
WITH A
SECRET
r^T\
OTft?
rue
mm
sauce
i p/;
When the atmosphere of uncertainty
surrounding the interim increase in the
basic wage clears —in a complicated issue
such as this there is bound to be uncer-
tainty for a time —the effect of the award
on the national economy will become
more discernible. The whole thing repre-
sents an experiment, and, to an extent,
an expedient; and unless the general
result is one of increased production by
wage-earners the experiment will have
failed, and once again expediency will
have brought a typical reward. The
problem is certainly a confusing one.
People dazzled by paper-money pros-
perity have yet to realise fully the nature
of our real war-time burden and legacy
and the sacrifices still necessary in order
to prevent credit inflation developing into
out-and-out price inflation, with a
crumbling of the currency. Befuddled by
the activities of industrial and political
agitators, thousands of unionists are stub-
bornly ref using to do the thing that would
disperse the inflation danger and reduce
living costs —they are refusing to produce
adequately, under the doctrine that to do
a good day’s work for a good day’s pay
is a crime. Early in the war many
unionists probably committed themselves
lightheartedly to a rather irresponsible
industrial policy, not realising the likely
ultimate consequences ; but now irrespon-
sible behavior has joined with unavoid-
able war-time problems to produce a
muddle in which real problems and
union-manufactured strife are bound to-
gether in a tangled mass. Communist
elements are active in adding to the con-
fusion, and the difficulties of the position
are abetted by the Commonwealth Labor
Government’s definite leaning towards
socialism. Whatever “benefits” the com-
munity is supposed to get from this
socialism, it is more than paying for in
heavy taxation, and, considering that the
tapering-off of war-time commitments
was bound to call for heavy taxes any-
way, the staggering double load of taxa-
tion is dulling whatever financial incentive
politically demoralised trade-unionists
may have possessed. Total taxes, Federal
and State, for 1945-46 were £5O 19s. a
head of the population, compared with
£l7 19s. 6d, in 1938-39.
Some industries, notably those produc-
ing steel and iron products, are being
allowed to pass on to the consumer the
whole of the basic-wage "increase—certain
clothing trades are also granted the
privilege. Others are restricted to partial
recoupment, while some businesses are
expected to carry the full burden them-
selves. Taking company-profits figures
as a whole, it is unfair to ask industry
to carry any more of the responsibility
of combating inflation than it is bearing
at present; even in terms of depreciated
money company earnings, by comparison
with pre-war figures, are down, accord-
ing to Commonwealth Bank estimates,
and taxes upon industrial earnings, in the
hands of companies and when passed on
to shareholders, are much heavierJthan in
the case of wage-earnings. It is true that
if the wage-increase, assisted by relaxation
of wage-pegging in respect of margins,
results in better industrial morale and
higher individual output, industry may
be well able to carry on without increas-
ing prices, provided relief is given so far
as the heavy and penalising double-
taxation system is concerned. Plant re-
newal and rehabilitation may also help
to combat the deplorable fall in per capita
output that has been in evidence over
the past five years. Failing a favorable
reaction from wage-earners following the
wage-increase, it is clear that stricter in-
dustrial discipline and adequate measures
against Communism are the only
remedies likely to solve the situation.
Mr. Chifley has made it clear that the
cost of the rise in the basic wage is not
going to be met out of price subsidies.
In taking this stand the Prime Minister
is well advised. Subsidies are already
costing the taxpayer a large amount, even
if tending to disguise the full extent , of
the increase in living costs since 1939 ;
and it is past time for all members of
the community to be brought face to face
with the results of their political and
economic demands. There was a time
when Labor was inclined to preach that
all sorts of miracles could be worked
through manipulation of Government
and national finances; but Mr. Chifley
at least is finding that every financial
action has its reaction —that higher wages
mean higher costs, and that these costs
can’t be cushioned for long so far as the
consumer or the taxpayer are concerned.
Taxation is at its extreme limit, and
there is a crying call for its reduction.
Wage-earners are clamoring for tax-cuts ;
they must be taught that cost reductions
are equally necessary for their- wellbeing,
and that fire latter are something resting
very largely on their own behavior. It
requires only a reasonable approach to
the matter for wage-earners to increase
their output without any loss or strain,
* * *
Mr. R, E. Binns, chairman of Wiluna
Gold, at the corporation’s annual meet-
ing in London expressed the opinion that
the 25 p.c. premium which sterling cur-
rency commands over the Australian £
was hard to justify. One of Mr. Binns’s
reasons for thinking that the £ Aus-
tralian is likely to come closer to par
with sterling is that the nationalisation of
various British industries will involve the
issue of about £2OOO million sterling of
Government stock to present owners ; this
“vast addition to the potential amount
of cashable assets,” Mr. Binns believes,
will call for exchange control of the
“most drastic nature.” Provided, how-
ever, that -facilities for raising money on
Consols are made no more easy than on
the railway, etc., shares acquired, there
is no particular reason to fear any great
increase in credit expansion—certainly
not, in any case, until the securities fall
due for repayment. Australia’s present
substantial London funds are no more
indicative of real financial strength than
are our several high piles of internal
savings: each largely represents a de-
preciation and replacement reserve fund
in respect of assets which it will take some
time to repair or replace. The country
is short of capital goods as well as con-
sumer goods, and many of the capital
goods will have to be brought from over-
seas —consumer goods, too. It is
true that at the present time we
have an extremely favorable balance
of foreign trade; but much of the favor-
able balance is coming to us from ex-
ports to non-Empire countries, including
the United States and the Continent, For
the four months to the end of October we
had, indeed, a greater favorable balance
with the Malay States than we had with
Britain itself. And we are still a debtor
country so far as Britain is concerned,
our debt requiring us to deposit in
London about £l4 million sterling every
year. It is possible, too, that prices for
land products will fall more rapidly later
on than the cost of manufactured goods.
On present figures alone there is certainly
no complete case for an alteration in the
London-Australia exchange rate. Canada
has lately given wider recognition to
sterling, which suggests that if strict
measures are being continued to maintain
the value of British currency. And the
Bretton Woods people have been advised
that the dollar-sterling .exchange rate is
to stand.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: No knot-humper in the
past was ever foolish enough to be caught
outside a town on Christmas Day, for
he knew, as did every inhabitant of the
country towns and their districts, that
most, if not all. Of the pubs put on huge
Christmas dinners for all-comers —dinners
that were either free or for which a ridi-
culously small charge was made. And
what dinners! Poultry, pork, ham, pud-
dings, salads; savories, cheese, dried and
fresh fruits and nuts galore, with lashings
of beer and wine—dinners which gener-
ally reduced their participants to a state
of comatose happiness for the rest of
the day. Yes, the country pubs did them-
selves proud, all right, and even those
which did make a small charge waived it
for the fellow who dropped his swag in
the backyard. Today you can drive up
to the meanest pub in the country in the
newest limousine, exhibit pockets stuffed
with notes and a desire to spend them,
and though he’ll sell you intoxicating
drinks the publican will curtly re-
fuse a bunk or a meal. As for the
bloke with the drum, he’ll be lucky if
he isn’t given in charge if he does any-
thing so foolish as to expect a free
Christmas dinner. Something—some
warm, human quality—has gone out of
Australian fife.
» ♦ * «
“Nor’-west”: Possibly those N.Q.
turtles mentioned by “G.’s Missus” (B.
27 1 11 1 ’46) really are silty enough to
provide meals for the dingo, but the shell-
back of the north-western coasts of the
continent learned Wisdom ages ago ; with
plenty of dingo-free islands in the offing
they paddle ashore there and deposit
their eggs. Nor do they resort to camou-
flage—-the flipper-marked sand readily,
betrays a fresh nest, until that day’s sun
and the inevitable afternoon wind wipe
away all traces. The egg-hunting abo,
reaching such sanctuaries by canoe or
catamaran, merely walks the sand above
high-water mark thrusting every foot or
so with his spear. When the point comes
U P eggy he has struck oil and digs.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Cowangie turned up at
Boihka two men short, so Mat and I
were pressed into service, not unwillingly
once we’d sighted what was hidden under
the wet wheatbags near the siding.
Cowangie made 78 (Mat, six in one hit;
me, none in one hit) and Boinka had six
down for 64 when the usual stonewaller
appeared. He’d been batting 70 minutes
and hadn’t scored, the day was hot, the
field weary and all thoughts were on the
refreshments under the wet sacks when
the desperate Cowangie skipper threw the
ball to Mat. The big fellow eyed it,
passed it thoughtfully from hand to
hand, waved a fieldsman in here and an-
other back there, galloped ferociously up
to the wicket, leapt 10ft. in the air and
brought his arm over. The ball shot
straight for the stonewaller’s head, he
tried to duck and stumbled into his
wicket. Mat led the rush to the keg by
a good 10 yards.
V « * * »
“Laetitia”; So fond of beer is the cock-
roach (B. 20/11/’46) that on a Torres
Straits M.O.P. lugger I’ve seen a beer-
steeped Dundreary ziff reduced to a mere
stubble overnight while the sozzled one
slept it off. Any old-time “Thirsty
Islander” will swear to the truth of the
tale of‘the three saturnine strangers, who
made a sou’-wester and oilskin-clad en-
trance to the pub one bleak night. They
drank their beer in such sombre silence
that the barman, already in an intermedi-
ate stage of dingbats, made no demur,
when no money was tendered. In turn
each of the forbidding trio carried the
beer to his morose mates at the table in
the shadows. After surrounding about
half a dozen pints the strangers filed out
into the teeth of the gale. As the last
one passed through the door a squall
blew open his oilskin coat. The barman
looked and toppled over the borderline
into the d.ts. What he saw was the hairy
‘throat of a giant Torres Straits cock-
roach !
* * * *
“E. 2”; Mullins put on an extra helper
for the harvest and fixed him up with a
bunk in a shed long fallen into disuse.
The new hand stuck it for a week before
complaining. “It ain’t that I’m not used
t’ rough quarters,” he said. “But there’s
"It'll make a grand hall carpet."
a spooky feeling about that joint at night.
I had awful nightmares the last couple
o’ nights.” “Well, the shed ain’t haunted,
so far as X know,” Mullins cogitated.
“How did them nightmares affect y’?”
“Well,” said the hand, “it felt like sum-
thin’ pullin’ an’ tearin’ at me toes all
night, an’ I woke up in the mornin’s
scared stiff.” Mullins pondered a bit and
then told his offsider that he could be
assured of undisturbed sleep in future.
That night he made sure young Harry
locked up the poddy calves.
» ** * • ■
“Caneite”: Go-slow hasn’t become a
fetish in the North. Working 127
days for the season just ended at Victoria
Mill, Ingham, four sloggers, cutting in
flood-damaged cane for part of the time,
averaged 7| tons a man a day for 23
weeks and cut a grand total of 3917
tons. Average earnings for each man
per day wfere a shade over £2 175.;
total, £363 17s. sd. for the season.
They cut out four farms, did their own
cooking and never lost a day’s work.
*** . *
“Rat-bag”: Gus’s two nieces had
arrived for their Christmas holidays.
They soon tired of watching the gum-
trees growing, and in their search for
more entertaining things they finally ran
down an abandoned gramophone under
the house*. When they got it working,
Gus tore out of the house, thinking it
was old Strawb .giving her death-rattle.
He found them with their ears glued to
the speaker. To his “What the ’ell ’ave
you got there?” the lasses gave a
peeved “Sh-h, Uncle —this is solid.” Gus
discovered later that what they thought
to be a Sinatra opus was a Gigli record-
ing, slightly melted by the heat.
* * * ♦
“Atrax”: A request to the Federal
Government by a South Q. shire council
that ibises be imported from Egypt to
deal with a threatening grasshopper in-
vasion affords sad evidence of the ignor-
ance of rural Australia concerning its
most useful bird-friends. The mover
stated that the ibises on his property
“scooped up grasshoppers like a
fowl eating corn,” but flew home to
Egypt for the laying season. Our three
species ok ibis, white, straw-necked and
glossy, air have their breeding places in
Australia, and although the white ibis
is practically identical with the sacred
ibis of Egypt it certainly does not go
there to lay. Most useful of the three
is the straw-necked ibis, beautiful in its
black, yellow, purple and white costume,
with long black arched bill. Investiga-
tions made long ago on a flock breeding
in the Riverina and estimated to contain
some 240,000 birds showed that each
one shot for examination contained an
average of 2000 young grasshoppers. No
locust plague could endure for long
against a daily loss of 480 millions. But
their breeding areas have been diminished,
and even now Australian farmers still
exist who shoot these invaluable allies
under the delusion that they damage
ground-crops.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A foot-wide round
hole in the sheltered ground behind the
hut, a small pile of picked dry w r ood
and some bits of newly-stripped bark
revealed that Old Joe intended to make
us a real damper as his contribution to
the Christmas festivities. And Joe is a
truly gifted exponent of that almost-for-
gotten Australian art. No nonsense
about camp ovens (or cream of tartar)
or baking soda for hi’m. “Takes the
coats orf yer stomach, them things,” is his
opinion. On Christmas morning he
started his fire, burned it down to a red
heap, and divided the glowing embers
between the bottom and the edge of the
hole. Before he mixed he tested them
with a strip of bark to ensure that they
were at exactly the right stage towards
ashing. Then the water surprisingly
little —to the flour in the dish, a brief
rapid swirling of a gnarled hand, and it
turned miraculously into dough. A very
few light strokes with a fist and the raw
product was placed on its glowing bed of
ashes and others heaped over it, with
a strip of bark. Forty minutes later he
lifted it out with the bark strips . and
turned it upside down to cool —a delicious
difference of texture and flavor from
ordinary bread. “Just a knack,” says
Joe. I’ve tried a dozen times and never
achieved anything but indigestible sods.
* ■* * *
“Gryllus” : I haven’t yet come across
a dove or pigeon that has been taught
to talk, but some of them in this s.-e. Q.
area manage to get off quite interesting
vocal efforts of their own. A grey-mauve
artist is particularly given to announcing,
generally quite untruthfully, in a retained
English accent: “There’s watah heah.”
Another, clad in modest greys and brown,
demands: “Who are you—Who are you
—Who-o-o are you?” A small quietly-
dressed orator of retiring habit keeps on
ordering this cranky world in general to :
“Cut it out —cut it out —cut it OUT!”
Yet another, a handsome pigeon whose
garb I shall not reveal in these holiday-
times of possibly prejudiced city sports-
men, perpetrates a gross and wholly base-
less libel against one of Brisbane’s most
attractive suburbs by declaring in loud
shouts that “Coorparoo Stinks!”
* * * *
“Bigbel”: I wonder how many of the
troops that served in New Guinea, and
witnessed kunai grass being burnt off by
the natives, realised what story lay be-
hind that fire.' From an agricultural
point of view the practice is to be de-
plored. Originally an area of thick, rich
virgin bushland is cleared and a garden
of yams, taro, sweet potato and sundry
other crops planted. When the crop is
harvested the garden is abandoned, N.G.
natives never using the same ground
again. Kunai grass takes hold in this
abandoned garden, spreads, and each year
is burnt off to kill any wild pigs which
may be hiding in it. But the surround-
ing bush gets scorched and dies, with the
result that each year the kunai extends.
This practice has bqen going on for thou-
sands of years, and the soil has suffered
considerably, the humus.being destroyed.
With erosion consequently taking place,
kunai areas are now of little use for
garden purposes. In a huge country like
New Guinea, where the population has
more than sufficient acreage of arable
land, this practice has as yet not shown
any serious results, but one can imagine
just what the position would be in, say,
Java, if soil were so destroyed.
♦ * * *
“Blime”: We’d mustered the jummies,
Snif and I, and, draped on the rails
watching the tyke do a bit of sorting out,
a bloke’s thoughts naturally turned to
spots, which is how I got the idea of
changing my brand. Decided on a large
spot, surmounted by four smaller spots.
Explained the thing to the mong, and
now all I’ve got to do is supply the brand-
ing oil, and everywhere Snif spies a blank
rump he shoves on a brand with his front
paw. It has done away with all the un-
branded-stray trouble we used to have,
and that was always a menace with a
neighbor who is careless about such
things, and whose property runs an un-
fenced track which I use constantly.
Snifter’s technique “had” me at first,
though. Showing no lameness at other
times, when we started in the unfenced
direction the dog always carried one
foot, and I didn’t get the hang of things
at all, .till I spotted the suspended mitt
dripping branding fluid. After several
years of the spots brand my flock has
increased surprisingly, and no one can
tell me a well-trained dog doesn’t pay in
sheep country—not since I’ve filed a
couple of Snifter’s teeth into a better
ear-mark pattern.
* * * *
“Niloc”: People in the Mallee country
who have grown up with the idea that a
“Cobar Shower” is a duststorm will be
amazed to learn that they are wrong.
According to an American article, the
expression is used merely as rhyming
slang for “flower.” The U.S. writer was
correct in declaring that a “mad
mick” is a pick, but “Sydney
Harbor” for “barber” and
“Hawkesbury Rivers” for “shivers”
were new to us. , The gentleman
discussing the slang declares that
“it is used in Australia by the
whole public, and not, as in
England and America, only by
members of the underworld,” He
is years behind the times. This
rhyming slang was popular just
after the Great War, when
Diggers coming home brought
with them touches of Cockney.
Words of Egyptian such as “bint”
and “buckshee” are still popular
with them. Nowadays, however,
most Australian slang can be
traced to the various sports, and
the terms “snookered,” “pipped
on the post” and “bowled” are in
common use.
* * * *
“T.W.H.”: “Bull-ant Bill’s” friend Old
Joe (B. 4/12/’46) is wrong in assuming
that worker bees die after stinging, and a
lot of people who should know better
have the same idea. It was proved by
Roots in U.S.A. that one hive had nearly
half its bees that had lost stings still
working on. In some cases bees were
found to have grown new stinging
apparatus.
“Fang”: Tom and I were angling for
cod from a rocky bank where the river
ran in a deep, shelving channel. Things
were quiet till we heard a crash upstream,
then a loud yelling, followed by silence.
In a couple of minutes the yelling was re-
sumed and faded gradually into the
distance. We put it down to the after-
noon perambulations of a cow-farmer,
but when a greasy felt hat drifted past we
decided on investigation. Around the
bend we came on a grinning cocky, “It
was on’y Andy, me olfsider,” he said.
“Sent him down t’ cut blackberries an’
he must’ve bin snoozin’ in the shade of
that old redgum up there when the limb
fell.” “Was he hurt?” Tom inquired.
“Aw, it didn’t slow him down if he was,”
grinned the delighted cocky. “He busted
all runnin’ an swimmin’ records when the
hive of bees in the spout prodded him into
action.”
* * * *
“Zake”: I had long regarded the
ophidian family as being as enthusiastic
in their sunbaking as the most ardent
’surfer, until an old bushman’s observa-
tions made it plain that Joe and his missus
are far more discriminating than any
Bondi shooter. They invariably confine
their sunbaking to the early morning and
late afternoon. When the fierce midday
sun is frying up on the beach the scaly
ones are snoring off in a cool shady spot.
Confine a snake in a box and leave him
out in the. midday sun, and in an hour
or so hfe’ll be dead-meat unless the box
is cooled with copious quantities of
water. Perhaps Joe has more sense than
Homo sapiens —at least I’ve never seen a
red-bellied black with skin cancer.
THE ECHIDNA.
Jim brought him home from Betka River,
And, unsophisticated,
Proposed the animated quiver
Should be domesticated.
He left the sugar-bag containing
The subject of this “sonnet”
Upon a kitchen chair, remaining
Till Uncle sat upon it I
That awkward episode excited
Domestic agitation
When our irascible, short-sighted
And only rich relation
In bedroom privacy requesting
An urgent antiseptic
Expressed loud views on “vulgar jesting”
In caustic terms and sceptic.
And when his injuries, self-treated,
A going-forth permitted, ‘
Though by all hands to stay entreated,
The premises he quitted;
To savages, and worse, comparing
His nephew and his nieces,
His will and testament declaring
Would see them shot to pieces.
Though Mum —’twas thought unjustly—
blamed him
For spiking Uncle Peter,
Jim kept his pet and fondly named him
Abimelech Anteater.
Forbidding, like a Scottish thistle,
All intimate attention,
He had no voice to sing or whistle
Or other gifts worth mention.
With sharp-quilled armatiirc invested
This cross ’twixt bird and mammal
Related to —’tis so attested —
The ostrich and the camel
Across the fowlyard moved unhurried
When first he went a-maying:
The roosters to their perches scurried,
The Leghorns ceased from laying!
His reign was short. By evil chance he
One night the house went roaming—
No doubt by some echidnal fancy
Attracted in the gloaming—
And father, barefoot, treading oh him,
Called all the saints to witness
The curses that he rained upon him
Were but eternal fitness.
Re-sug&r-bagged next mom he travelled
Back home to Betka River;
Upon its loamy banks and gravelled
Jim set him free for ever.
Within a month Dad’s foot had mended,
A quack cured Uncle Peter;
But no one flattered or commended
Abimelech Anteater.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Mark Time”; Old Bill wanted to put
down a well and called in a diviner. The
dowser wandered round the paddock
waving his forked willow stick until sud-
denly it started to twitch. “Yer’ll get a
good stream here at fifty feet,” he de-
cided. Bill scratched his head and poked
a stick in the chosen site. “See what yer
can git on the other side of the hill,”
he suggested. The diviner went through
his manoeuvres while old Bill disappeared
for a few minutes. Soon the dowser
gave a yell, and Bill popped out from be-
hind some trees. “Found another,” the
wise one announced. “Good stream at
sixty feet.” “An’ which is the best?”
asked Bill, The diviner, going over the
ground again, declared firmly in
favor of the first find. Bill paid his half-
guinea, put down his well chains away
from either site and found good water.
“Yer see,” he explained, “when the
dowser chap went over the hill I ducked
back and shifted the stick off his first
stream —put it two chains away, and he
never even noticed. 1 gave him his ten-
an’-six because I’d been mug enough to
hire him, but I picked me own spot
down on the flat where the grass always
seemed a bit greener.”
* * * *
“Bo”; Gillard creaked down from his
sulky and came into Comaville’s General
Store. Manton looked up from weighing
some sugar, delivered his time-honored
greeting of “G’day, Josh, what can I do
y’ for?” and, anticipating his customer’s
usual practice of first taking an inventory
of the displayed goods, went on with his
task. But this time Josh came straight up
to the counter. “I’m puttin’ up that ‘No
trespassers’ sign at me eastern bound’ry
fence,” quoth the old cove. Manton went
on weighing, but looked up with arched
brows. “The same one y’ were goin’ to
put up about 10 years back?” he asked.
“Yair, but I’m determined this time. It’s
them blasted drovers. I dug up an ole
white board I’ve had under the house an’
I want some black paint.” “Ain’t got
any,” said Manton. “I on’y got white an’
that won’t be any good to y’. Ain’t got
anything to mix with it either to make it
show up. I’m afraid y’ll have to wait till
another fortnight when me next lot comes
up from Melbourne.” “Wait nothin’!”
“I'd apply for the job meself if they'd made it a tenner .”
Josh was emphatic. “I’m gittin’ that notice
up t’day. Gimme a tin o’ cocky’s joy.”
“But y’ won’t be able to see that more’n
a few yards, an’ anyway the letters’ll
run in this hot weather,” protested the
'storekeeper.. “The letters won’t run —
not when the million or so of black flies’ve
settled on it in a few seconds,”
said Josh, “an’ y’ll be able to see it for
half a mile. Wot’s more. I’ll be able to
eat the rest o’ the tin I don’t use for the
notice, an’ that’s a dam’ sight more’n
I could do with paint. Gimme a seven-
pounder.”
* * * *
“Timber”: I live in one of a row of
cottages with pocket-handkerchief back-
yards. My yard was crowded out by a
huge tree which had worried me for
years. A typical Cockney immigrant
moved in next door. One day 1 told him
he could ‘have my big vegetable if he
could remove it without damaging roofs,
tanks or fences. Next day he arrived
armed with a 14-foot flooring board hav-
ing an ordinary hand-saw bolted to one
end. Climbing on to my chimney, he be-
gan using the “long-arm” implement on '
the topmost bough —about 40 feet from
the ground—and patiently whittled away
while the neighbors laughed at the new-
chum technique. As each limb was
lopped it was cut into firewood and
neatly stacked. In a week the entire tree
had vanished, root and branch, leaving
not a leaf behind. Everybody was satis-
fied except the neighbor on the others,
side, who had turned down the offer many
times because he couldn’t see a way of
felling the tree without bringing down
the water-tank or the chimney with it.
* * * *
“Luna”: “B. A. Ker” (B. 13/11/’4S)
suggests that the apparent inflation and
blushing of the moon are due to the same
cause. A near miss. The earth’s
atmosphere is shaped like a huge gold-
fish bowl, and has exactly the same opti-
cal qualities of magnification. The fish
seem bigger to you the further they are
from the side, and you seem bigger to
the fish. Seen from a hill-top the
moon looks frightening in size because
the horizon is more distant, with conse-
quent thickening of the atmospheric lens
due to the angle of vision. The color is
quite another story. Jeans writes of two
primaries, blue and red. Blue rays can-
not penetrate blue glass or the blue air
which gives the distant hill its azure hue.
Red rays cannot penetrate red glass, etc.
The “whole” white light of the moon
strikes our atmosphere: the blue element
is filtered out, the red reaches the eye.
Demonstration: On white paper make
a blue pencil mark and a red one. Look
through a blue glass. Only the red will
be visible. The paper will look bluish
because the glass is blue. With a red
glass the red mark disappears. Certainly
dust and vapor modify the color by re-
fraction, but it is clear that the apparent
size and color have independent causes.
* * * *
“H.V.P.”: The Horton River, near
Bingara (N.S.W.), is usually a chain of
waterholes during the summer months.
Almost a year ago a fierce flood at the
junction of Fallal Creek gouged out a
hole of water between 20 and 30 feet
deep and 50 yards wide. On a recent day,
after a loud bubbling sound, a
column of water was thrown up in the
centre of the basin, then it flowed over
like an artesian bore for a few minutes
before subsiding. Soon dead fish
floated belly-up. Any explanation for
the phenomenon?
* * * *
“O’Took”: Joe’s nightly habit was to
stagger back to the works camp with
about a bucketful of grog under his belt
and sing the only tune he knew —the first
part of “Come Into the Garden, Maud’
—in a voice like that of a bereaved cow.
Next morning, while the rest of the sober
camp was rolling out haggard from the
want of sleep, Joe would be breezing
about as sprightly as a sparrow in spring-
time. A committee for the suppression of
nocturnal disturbances was formed, and
everybody not in the know, including Joe
himself, was surprised when one morning
after a comparatively mild session at the
pub he was barely able to lift his head
off. the pillow. Attributing the hang-
over to cigarettes and bad beer, Joe
sallied out again with no loss of confi-
dence, but experienced the same result,
The performance was repeated until sad.
disillusioned and deeply puzzled, Joe
swore off grog. We got a bit of sleep at
nights then, especially the committeemen
whose job it had been to sneak into Joe’s
“Better run him through again just to make sure."
hut before he woke and smear his fore-
head with a stick of gelignite, which, as
every powder-monkey knows, is guaran-
teed to administer a worse headache
than the wildest jag known.
!(C * ♦ ♦
“T.W.H.”: Touching black cockatoos
(B. 20/11/’46), there are two types in
these S.A. parts. One, with red bars on
wings and tail feathers and having a harsh
screech, lives mostly on casuarina nuts
and other seeds, and seemingly has no
fancy for grubs or larva?. The other, with
yellow-barred wings and tail feathers, is
the bird credited with being a weather
prophet. Its call is a plain “koo-ree-lah.”
There is a Kooreelah Creek at the head of
the Clarence River (N.S.W.), which
possibly derived its name from the bird’s
call. It is these black cockatoos with
the few yellow feathers which tear the
grubs out of standing and fallen timber.
They don’t seem to be seed-lovers.
# * * *
“Frank Mauri”: Civilisation has
brought death to the Micronesians of the
north-western islands. In 1902 there
were 3000 virile natives on Wuluvlu; to-
day there are 300 sickly people. Fula, a
swamp taro, was grown in pits where
bred millions of Anopheles punctualatus,
deadly carrier of malaria. But the insects
were not infected; isolation and the
island’s lack of ah anchorage had pre-
vented overnight stay by visitors. In
1904 a trader and his “foreign” boys set
up in residence. Mosquitoes passed
malaria from them to the native popula-
tion. Adults as well as children died,
for they had not the advantage of
acquired partial immunity. Other islands
shared the same fate, the natives of the
Hermits and Ninigoes being completely
wiped out.
* * * #
“Overange”: Jacky’s powers of obser-
vation, so much boomed, are fhuch of a
standard as the white man’s. The gin,
accustomed to hunting goannas and so
forth at holiday-time, is a far better tracker
than the “boy,” than whom there are any
number of white men better. The same
applies to sense of direction: Black
Brother is good while he’s on his own
beat—which means simply that he knows
his own country. In the Jap scare of
1942 we had to ship our bullocks to
Perth through Broome instead of Derby,
and once in the scrub country south of
the Fitzroy our over-the-range boys
were bushed. They would all give a
different answer when asked where the
camp was, and the two half-castes were,
the only ones always right.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Tom hadn’t been camped
out Bald Hill way long before he ran int®
Helpful Harry. “What’s the matter
with y’r foot?” Harry asked, noticing
Tom’s limp. “Corn, eh? Cripes, y’re mad
t’ put up with them things. Why don’tcha
rub on a bit o’ Crippler’s Lotion, then y’
won’t limp about no more, the bloke on
me wireless was sayin’.” “Aw, yair?”
“Awright, if y’ want the thing,” sniffed
Helpful, “only them blokes oughta
know.” Tom was coughing his chest
raw when next he met the old bloke.
“Can’t understand fellers hangin’ o:i t’
colds,” remarked Helpful, “when a sip
o’ Killer Cure’d settle ’em in no time.
Serves ’em right, I sez.” The argument
lasted 20 minutes. “Well, don’t dffame
me,” concluded the know-all. “You’re as
bad’s old Bob Rogers. I’ve told him half-
a-dozen times how t’ git rid of his asthma,
but the silly cow likes havin’ it, if y’ ask
me.” Tom kept out of Helpful’s way
after that, and heard no more of him till
on his road home with a couple of cows
one evening he ran into Mick. “Seen
Helpful lately?” asked Mick “Hear he’s
got the screws pretty bad. Both legs, they
tell me. Hey, vyhere y’ goin’?” as Tom
turned his nag in the direction of Help-
ful’s camp. “What about y’r cows?
They’ll get lost.” “Mick,” announced
Tom, solemnly, “I c’n like as not hud
them cows again t’morrer, but cripes, a
bloke might never find Helpful with the
screws again.”
» * * *
“B. A. Ker”: At first I wondered ab-
stractedly how that crumpled black
feather came to be in the box among my
boyhood treasures ; then the rusty wheels
of memory began to clank: I was about
ten when Dad brought home an Orping-
ton aristocrat, strutting in his purple-
black sheen. Half an hour later my ban-
tam rooster was bogging in. It was a
gory, one-sided encounter, but, although
I kept catching him and tossing him back
into his rightful yard, the little spitfire
would persist in returning for another
hiding. The battle lasted for three days
before stamina and unconquerable cour-
age began to tell. On the fourth day
Dad discovered his prizewinner down
and almost out, with a vengeful little
fury intent on finishing the job. Pop was
a good sport, but the sight of five
guineas’ worth of rooster so close to
death’s door was too much. With char-
acteristic justice he gave me one-and-
threepence to buy another bantam —a
hen—then carried out the execution.
Careful nursing had restored the aristo to
his former beauty—and skite —when he
scratched a hole under the wire and got
into the garden. A dozen young lettuce
plants had been sampled before Dad
sighted the vandal and intervened with a
hastily-flung clod of earth. The missile
dropped squarely on the bird’s poll and
five guineas went west there and then. The
unholy glee with which I souvenired the
curly tail feather comes back to me; I
felt like my hero, Wetzel (Zane Grey),
as he lifted the scalp of the Indians who
had murdered his parents.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I had been fully
determined to demolish the structure,
which was becoming something of an
eyesore, but when I arrived on the job
with the tools the occupants were ener-
getic in their demands that the home
be spared. They were sober, respectable
and Australian, though neither entirely
white nor altogether black; and I
gathered from their general attitude that
an increase was expected. The home re-
fhained. That was some months ago, and,
being by now a patron of the family, I
watched anxiously for the happy event,
and later took a keen interest in the
youngsters twins although visitors
were discouraged. The parents, with
a laudable interest in their offsprings’
future, were attempting to develop
in them a practical airmindedness.
I thought of the hours of hard work and
study that go to the making of an ac-
complished aviator, and smiled at the
prospect of these young Australians at-
taining their wings at such a tender age. I
struck them one day some distance from
the home and tried to strike, up an ac-
quaintanceship, but thev had been edu-
cated to distrust humanity, and evaded
me in a series of futile hops that were
evidently intended as a preliminary to
becoming airborne. I was pondering
their inability to rise when two feathered
missiles shot down on either side of me.
Timing it perfectly, the parent magpies
flew a few inches directly above their
offspring and gradually drew them,
fluttering, to the safety of their nest in
the old half-dead white gum whose life
I had spared.
LAMENT FOR THE MOON.
0 Time, who slays so many loves,
Draw back that restless foot!
1 cannot follow where you run,
Nor from my heart uproot
The slender moon, the tender moon
That called the ringtail out;
That turned the night to silver day,
And scattered dreams about.
Some yet unborn may find romance
On Luna’s stony shore,
In moonlight measured and bereft
Of mystery evermore:
A charted thing, a marted thing,
With trips for millionaires,
And flakes of rock for souvenirs
Brought back from moony lairs.
■But I had rather see a friend
Still smiling from the sky,
And moonbeams kiss the path I tread
Until I come to die.
The gentle moon, the poets’ moon,
With silver-fingered skill
To etch the world in beauty-white—■
O let me keep it still.
VICTORIA.
G. ISABEL LIVINGSTONE.


yt
¥J
JJ
* .{Ur
y i
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. f LTD.
MA 6311
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
7
DESTROY THESE PESTS
with
(Kegd.)
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
for Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
r* Sterilised
i.«.., ay BONE FLOUR
Pholphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
A ll particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 K Adelaide, 588 Perth.
R BETTER PRICE Per LR.!
Whether your next clip be large or small, the maximum
price will be assured if it is in the hands of Australian,
Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy., because of the unchal-
lenged appraising and outstanding auctioneering of the
A.M.L. & F. menl Write now to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England 186 S
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay ._A4.22.74-
CONSTIPATION
The Bane of Many Folk
Constipation makes you dull, listless, sluggish, irritable, and
produces headaches. It leaves an unpleasant taste in the mouth,
gives you a tired-out feeling and weakens your resistance to
colds and other germ diseases.
To combat Constipation don’t use drastic purgatives that sicken
and gripe you. Keep to the good old family medicine, Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills, which has proved its merit year in and year
out. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are purely vegetable, help
to promote daily regularity, and act on the liver and kidneys.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Copper Deficiency.
“Archaps”: Research by the C.S.I.R.
and Queensland Department of Agricul-
ture into this aspect of wool quality in
certain areas has produced some interest-
ing results. Merinos and crossbreds were
introduced into a copper-deficient area
and later shorn. The new wool "showed
typical “secondary waves.” Six months
after shearing the sheep were drenched
at frequent and regular intervals with
bluestone solution, and the change was
remarkable. Observations made with
black sheep running on copper-deficient
country showed intermittent white bands
along the length of their black staples,
and there was a strong correlation be-
tween the occurrence of these white
bands and the appearance of changes
typical of copper deficiency in the wool
of white sheep. Moreover, the black
pigment returned immediately to the
wool of a black-banded staple which was
growing white wool when the animal was
given copper drenches.
If weaners are subjected to copper
deficiency they produce abnormal wool,
their general growth and development
are slow and they appear to be stunted.
Ewes subjected to a serious copper de-
ficiency during the latter stages of preg-
nancy and kept short of copper show,
soon after lambing, peculiar symptoms.
Heavy mortality of the lambs may occur.
The diagnosis of copper deficiency in
sheep is based upon (1) occurrence of
abnormal wool, (2) chemical analysis of
the liver and/or blood, and (3) the
clinical appearance and history of the
sheep. This calls for closer co-operation
between wool producers, buyers and
research workers.
Copper deficiency is easily overcome
by a small regular intake of copper by
the sheep, but the way in which it can be
taken will depend on local conditions —
type of water, composition of the various
salts in solution in the water and type
of water facilities—cement troughs, etc.
By giving sheep too much of the supple-
ment chronic copper poisoning may re-
sult, and recommendations as to feeding
on individual properties cannot be made
until all the factors are known by the
adviser.
Value of Herd-testing.
“Rooster”: “Aerogenes” suggests (B.
4/12/’46) the weighing and recording of
milk yields at every milking. Wouldn’t
it be better to join the local Herd-testing
Association—or start one if not already
formed? The monthly test for butter-
fat yields could then be accurately cal-
culated and checked with factory returns.
It’s practically impossible to assess which
cows are “most profitable” by merely
weighing the daily yield. I recently
bought a cross-bred cow (Ayrshire-Short-
horn) on the strength of its 581 b. of milk
a day. The ensuing testing period, how-
ever, soon showed that, with a butter-
fat test of only 3.4 p.c., the daily yield in
butter-fat was just under 21b. Most of
my Jersey heifers average about the same
yield, 371 b. of milk daily, the butter-fat
test from 5 p.c. to 6.2 p.c.
He must be something in the nature
of a clairvoyant who can arrive at
“actual production results,” especially as
he indicates that they may be determined
“even if unable to test for butteivfat!”
How? The weighing of milk every day is
“Last time he Was out fellin he chopped his toes.”
unnecessary. Between testings, usually
monthly, the fortnightly cheques will
soon indicate any serious decline. In
fact the discerning dairy-cocky soon per-
ceives whether a particular cow is not
quite up to scratch and deals with it ac-
cordingly. Should the decline be due to
faulty feeding the whole herd would be
affected. No dairyfarmer worthy of the
name would let that happen.
If a herd is carefully raised from tried
and proven stock, hygienically milked,
fed on balanced rations, and a recorded
Service table kept for each cow no such
troubles as*“heat periods, mammitis, red-
water or digestive troubles” should
escape attention —indeed, except for the
natural recurrence of the heat periods,
they would be almost non-existent. Three
things I advocate for dairyfarmers; (1)
purebred sires (if not dams); (2) strict
hygiene with balanced feeding; (3) regu-
lar herd-testing.
Lice on Horses.
“Xob33”: Boil 11b. of soap in a gallon
of water until it is thoroughly dissolved,
then .add l\ pints kerosene. Keep pour-
ing the mixture from one container to
another until it is emulsified. Then
dilute it with water to whatever con-
sistency is required. On a warm sunny
day clip the horse all over and apply
the mixture, but do not rub it in. While
the first application is drying collect all
the shaved-off hair and burn it. After
nine days give the horse another applica-
tion of the soap mixture to catch newly-
hatched lice.
As a guard against future lice attacks
disinfect all covers and harness, scrub
the feedboxes and anything of a wooden
nature about the yard with hot soapy
water to which has been added a small
amount of lysol.
The American Way.
“Agric”: In U.S.A. G. Lambert, a
Brisbane man, saw lucerne being
machine-dried for hay and meal. Near
Omaha he counted 28 dehydrators, and
the lucerne-meal was being sold within
1| hours of cutting. The lucerne is cut —
before it is mature in order to conserve
the maximum protein content —into 2in.
lengths and thrown into a truck l drawn
by the tractor cutting the crop, only one
man being required. The truck, when
full, is detached and taken to the drier,
where it is automatically emptied and the
lucerne put through the drying process.
It is then treated by a hammer mill and
made into meal. The process is claimed
to give the lucerne double the protein
value it would have had if cut and dried
in the old way.
Propagating Tree Seed.
“Farmer Bill”: Trees grown from local
seed reach finer maturity, are longer
lived and more drought resistant than
nursery-grown stock.
There’s no set season for sowing. Ex-
perience teaches whether spring or
autumn suits your district best. Seeds
can be planted once frosts are over. De-
cide on species that have proved most
successful in your area and choose seeds
from well-developed trees.
Seeds of eucalypts are not fully ripe
till the capsules turn dark brown. Seeds
borne in pods—acacias —should be
gathered just before the bean bursts. Pine
seeds are fully ripe in late spring. Don’t
store seeds in air-tight containers after
collection ; moisture content will induce
mould and affect fertility. ' Place on
sheets of paper in a sheltered sunny spot
and dry well. Lose no time in planting
seeds of teak, red cedar, hoop pine, elms,
maples or nuts and acorns ; fertility of
these species is short lived. Fertility of
eucalypts remains 100 p.c. for some
months; that of wattles for some gener-
ations.
To test fertility sow a few of the seeds.
Germination percentages are satisfactory
if six out of ten shoot. Germination of
kurrajongs, wattles and wilgas is speeded
up by pouring boiling water over them
and soaking 24 hours. Or nick the seed
shell and soak in cold water. Sow the
seeds in jam-tins or an open seedbed ;
sandy loam gives best results. Slash holes
and place rubble in the bottom of each
tin to provide drainage ; one seed per
tin is enough. Position of the seedbed
should be protected from prevailing
winds and the area deeply dug, levelled
off and damped before sowing. Cover
seed with a layer of soil equal to it in
thickness. Soil kept damp encourages
germination; beds which dry out pro-
duce weakly seedlings, if any.
Seedlings can be pricked into tins once
two or three sets of leaves develop. Trans-
planting into the permanent site can wait
till trees are eight to ten inches high.
Areas for windbreaks or woodiots should
be deeply ploughed and soil brought to
a fine tilth first. After-care requirements
are watering till the trees are established,
; staking, forking up of soil around the
stem and protection from stock.
Changing Legs.
“Haute Ecole”: The hor§e that will not
change legs according to direction is of
no use in the show ring. To proceed to
the right, leading with the near fore, is
both awkward and dangerous, with the
possibility of crossed legs resulting in a
spill, besides making it impossible to
execute any of the movements necessary
for equitation tests.
To teach a horse to change legs, mark
out a course like a figure of eight and,
starting at the bottom left-hand corner,
canter right diagonally, leading with the
off fore, to within several paces of the
centre. Pull up and trot across centre,
then give the “aid” for the canter leading


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
#ll
EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty„ Ltd.. King Street, Sydney.
Transition from
Swords to Ploughshares
f
THE war is long since over but the battle of
production goes on. Within the four walls of
our workshops men are working just as long . . .
and as hard, but to-day the call is for the plough-
shares of peace instead of the weapons of war . . .
and the call -is insistent.
Our workmen, from drafting to delivery, know
the urgency of the need. They know that primary
production to-day is iri the centre of the world
stage. They know that foods are a vital need at
home and abroad and that engines and pumps,
spray plants and generating sets are as essential
to-day as were shell lathes and gun cradles in
their time. . _
So no energy will be spared, no quality will be
sacrificed, and no time will be lost in placing in
yoUr hands the Ronaldson-Tippett equipment which
you so urgently need. If you have not yet, placed
your order, do so at once. We are steadily over-
taking demand.
RONAIDSON BROS. & TTPPFTT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldfeon Bros., & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
QTand Distributors: Ronaidson Tippett (Q’land.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
xxm-MMM
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAkKd
Condition Powders and apply BA.KKO Skin Lotlor
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BABKO iodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS I/*
BARKO
SKIN EOTION 3/K
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/h
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
"WINSTONS SPECIAL" PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage*
"B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —•
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
New
Cream Deodorant
safely
Stops Perspiration
df
I Does not irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
5 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely.
8 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can bn
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmless
to any fabrics.
Arrid is the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-dayl
ARRID
# *
2/- a jar At all chemists & stores
Also in 9id. jars selling toilet goods
Distributors: Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
FLYPROOF
YOUR HOME
this easy way with
QUICK INSECT DESTROYER
Spray SUPER QID on walls, ceilings, electric-
light fittings, etc., and your home will be fly-
proofed for the whole of the summer. All
Flies and other Insects which rest on areas
which have been sprayed with SUPER QID
will receive a lethal dose of D.D.T. and die
within a few hours.
QID
QUICK INSECT DESTROYER
jfiujxe/i.
DID
IS UHFiIR
ro au
INSECTS
KILLS
on contact
KILLS for months .. .
SUPER QID contains Pyrethrum
and Thanite, plus 5 p.c. D.D.T.,
therefore it has a powerful “Resi-
dual” effect on walls, etc., and will
keep on killing Insect Pests for
many months. A few applications
of SUPER QID and your home will
be proofed against Flies and Mos-
quitoes for the whole of the
Summer.
with the near fore, and continue thus
around to within several paces of the
centre. Trot the intervening paces and
give the “aid” for the canter leading with
the off fore around to starting point.
Repeat until the horse has mastered this
movement, and in a few days it will be
possible to decrease the distance of
trotting by degrees until the change of
leg is accomplished in dead centre of the
course with no break in the canter.
Some horses change naturally, but the
majority have to be taught, and the above
method is the one usually recognised as
being the best. The change must be
smooth and effortless, not the rider’s
labored thrusting of the horse. There are
two kinds of “aids,” lateral and diagonal,
the former a co-ordination of move-
ments by the rider with the accent on one
side only, the latter a combination of
the two, almost a necessity if any of the
more complicated “aids” of school rid-
ing are to be accomplished.
Ploughless Farming.
“Bill C.”: Those ploughless farmers of
Mareeba (N.Q.) w.ere lucky to get good
results with maize on unploughed land
(B. 16/10/’46), but there’s nothing new
about their success with cowpeas and
peanuts. Having harvested ratoon cane
in spring, N.Q. sugar-farmers scratch
over the paddocks with a disk plough
and then broadcast the cowpea
seed. The pea comes away fast and
covers the land for the rainy season. A
legume, it makes use of atmospheric
nitrogen and hardly roots at all.
Peanuts don’t need deeply-cultivated
land. They produce heavily when culti-
vation goesT only to a depth of five or six
inches. Stiff to clayey soils are most
suitable for peanuts and legumes like
cowpeas.
Maize, unlike legumes, isn’t capable
of growing wherever it is sown. But it is
very easy growing a first crop of almost
anything in virgin soil, particularly when
that “soil is mostly light and sandy.”
Sandy soil is usually deep soil rich in silt
and not naturally hard, so that the roots
of plants can get down into it and bring
up nutriment. But where the soil is hard
and perhaps (Shaley, it must be broken
up to enable the roots of crops to forage
through it. Only the plough can do that
effectively.
The Market for Honey.
“Mr.”: J. W. Thomlinson, in the Vic-
torian “Journal of Agriculture,” points
out that beekeepers will need to do more
for the home market than they have done
during the past few years if their honey
is to meet future competition successfully.
During the war years and since, the de-
mand for honey has far exceeded the
supply, resulting in high prices being
obtained for stuff that would have been
unsaleable before the war, Thomlinson
considers that, with a return to normal
conditions, honey producers will be com-
pelled to place their honey before con-
sumers in a much more attractive form
than they have done in recent years.
One undesirable practice that has pre-
vented finer grades of honey from reach-
ing the consumer is the blending of first-
grade with poorer-quality honeys to make
an average-quality product. To increase
the demand on the home market con-
sumers should have a choice of the best
grades. This would lead to a variation
in prices with the producer of the* best
grades being rewarded for his work and
discrimination in choice of bee pasturage.
A Good Is. Worth.
Handy Hints for the Farm, now in a
second and revised edition, is on sale at
Is. per copy (Is. 2yd. posted). It contains
a tenner’s-worth of information.
Order from The Bulletin or news-
agents before supplies run out.
Hints for the Farm.
“E. 2”: Cramp the handsaw in a vyee
with a firm board along each side, and
test the teeth by running a flat file lightly
along the tips. If uneven they should
be jointed by working the file along
smoothly to bring them level. Should
the saw be in bad condition a guide-line
scribed along below the teeth to gauge
an even depth is handy, and irregular
teeth should be recut before setting.
Make sure the triangular file is of correct
taper for the particular saw. It’s hard
to make better than a rough job when
using pliers. A pistol-grip saw-set, with
graduations to suit different arrangements
of teeth to the inch, is the best tool.
“Johnny”: To make watermelons
ripen evenly and stop rot, place them,
while still green, on mounds of earth and
cover with straw,
“Old Sweat”: Used paint-brushes
dropped into a pot of water to keep
them soft are apt, weeks later, to be dried
out and hard, the water having evapo-
rated. When laying a brush aside, soak
it in machine oil. When required a year
later it may be clogged,'but is still flex-
ible ; a squeeze through kero, or turps
will set it right.
“West”: To prevent erosion on a
ploughed field, don’t leave the “corners,”
i.e., the diagonal finishing-off strips, until
last. Plough them first. This gives the
finished job a miniature contour-ploughed
effect and does not leave furrows radiat-
ing from the centre of the field to en-
courage erosion.
“Myrrhee”; When drenching a horse
raise the head slightly above the level
just enough to allow the drench to run
down the throat and not out of the
mouth. To get the head in position
pass a loop round the upper jaw behind
the front teeth and tie the free end to a
roof beam. Pour the medicine slowly
into the back of the mouth from a bottle.
If the horse tries to cough lower the
head back immediately and allow the
liquid to run out.
“Atlanta”: Light flat files cut down
on the emery wheel to an angle of 45deg.
on each side and finished with an oil-
stone make excellent and long-lasting
butchering or skinning knives. The
square end of the file can be curved or
pointed to required shape on the emery.
A strong handlers made by binding the
end of the file with soft wire and secur-
ing it with molten lead.
“Bumble”: A hive of bees, having put
off a swarm with the old queen, may
swarm again shortly after the first of a
number of queen-cells hatches. A third
issue a couple of days later may follow.
The colony is then reduced to a mere
handful of bees which, with a vigorous
young queen, will recover in time but
is temporarily at the mercy of strong
colonies close by. If robbing occurs
contract the entrance to an inch or so
and move the hive to a fresh site. It may
be strengthened by giving a frame or two
of brood at intervals.
“F.L.”: The English poplar, like the
willow, propagates easily from cuttings
taken during the dormant season. Both
make effective barriers against erosion
of river banks, are very ornamental and
the willow provides a lot of fodder when
lopped during the summer. As flood-
breaks, * levee banks bound with the
root growth of these trees are made all
the safer,
“Bill C.”: Early summer is the correct
time for planting out pawpaw-trees on the
east coasfe It is believed that the further
north they are grown in Queensland the
better-flavored will be the fruit from the
trees. They grow very well on new
scrub soil and sandy slopes rising from
creek flats, but cannot stand “wet feet”
conditions during the rainy seasons. At
the same time, droughty soils are re-
sponsible for many failures, and a peal
effort should be made to find a spot which
isn’t a river in the Wet and a desert in
the Dry. Cyclonic winds in the far north
may be ruinous to unsheltered trees.
Bearing starts at 12 monthp old, when
male trees, except one or fwo to every
30 or 40 trees (females), are better got
rid of.
“Sarina”: In spite of all field precau-
tions I’ve lost a lot of spuds (B. 9/10/’46)
through packing them in sacks that had
already held potatoes. First inkling I
knew of their presence was on opening a
sack in the shed; adult moths flew out
in a cloud. However, moths and their
larvae can be got rid of if all sacks are
placed in boiling water for a few minutes
and then wrung out and dried before
being used.


very picture of Nemesis returning from a
visit that was long overdue, rehearsing her
triumph, if such it could be called, with
much gloating. And in particular cases
“rubbing it in.”
Miss Gorm advised the children to say
nothing about the whole “unfortunate
visit.” She would know, she said, what
was the “proper course to take.”
When the children were dismissed for
the day they nearly broke their necks to
get home and tell what had happened.
Mrs. Nott set out straightway to have
it out with Mrs. Bolton, but turned back
at the creek, deciding that she would “just
let it stand for the moment.” Old Mrs.
Wenn (who was younger in sdme ways
than young Mrs. Wenn) said she wouldn’t
take any notice of anything Mrs. Bolton
might say. V
Mrs. Doolan, also something of a bush
lawyer, sent in to see Dawson, the
solicitor, aßout “damages” over the bugs.
“I have' thirty-two witnesses, Mr.
Dawson, and thirty-three if I count Miss
Gorm —a yarrow-chested, sour marm if
you ask me.”
Mr. Dawson didn’t scent any great
profit from the Doolans and their injured
pride. He leaned back, and half-closed
, his eyes, which made him look very cun-
ning.
“But really, Mrs. Doolan, do you think
anything is to be gained by an action in
the circumstances?”
“It’s me reputation, Mr. Dawson.”
“Quite so, but how much has it suf-
fered?”
“What! Me who scalds the bedsteads
twice a year at the least, and pours boil-
ing water wid a teapot into every crack
in the floor, verandahs and all! ”
' “What for?”
“To kill the bugs, of course.”
Mr. Dawson shifted his chair ever so
little, and leaned back farther, and closed
his eyes a bit more. Then he advised Mrs.
Doolan to think it over, which she earn-
estly promised she would do.
No one “tackled” Mrs. Bolton—she
looked grimmer than ever, and when she
was seen from afar in the early morning,
threading her way through the dewy grass
behind her three fat cows, using a long
gumstick as a staff, she looked particu-
larly formidable. On these occasions her
voice carried clearly, and she could be
heard carrying her quarrels, with threat,
accusation and defiance, to say nothing
of vituperation, to almost unheard-of
heights of victory.
GLENCOE
[These are extracts frpm a set of 16 ballads telling the story of the Massacre of
Glencoe, which took place before dawn on February 13, 1691. Troops under Captain
Robert Campbell of Glenlyon killed 38 of the Clan Maclan of Glencoe (a sept of
the MacDonalds), some others perishing in a snowstorm. The men primarily
responsible were the Earl of Breadalbane, chief of a powerful branch of the Clan
Campbell, and John Dalrymple, the Master of Stair. Ballads omitted here, besides
an introduction and conclusion, describe a quarrel over cattle between Maclan and
Breadalbane, and Maclan’s failure to take an oath of submission to King William
until two days after the time laid down.]
111.
“The word that’s come frae the English king
Is sudden and sharp and hard:
‘Ye must take my oath by the day I set
Or suffer by fire and sword.’ ”
“Then easy now, my youngest son,
Ye needna tit sae squeamish;
Maybe they’ll burn a barn or twa.
Maybe a wee bit skirmish.”
“I see Breadalbane’s hand in this,
The evil web o’ the spider;
He covets Maclan’s gear and beasts,
Your mountainside and river.”
“Then easy now, my lady wife,
The Coe runs strong in its foam
And I’ve a target o’ tough bull’s hide
Shall cover my house and home.”
“I’d swear no oath for the Dutchman king
Who sits on a Scotsman’s throne;
But out like the wild MacGregor men
I’d fight in the hills by my lone.”
“Then easy now, my good son John,
The Stewart’s owre the water;
And ITI take the oath if he gives me leave
And I’ll do my fighting later.”
“But late’s the day and late’s the hour
And Jamie sends nae word;
The rowan reddens owre the burn
And the frost sets white and hard.”
“Then easy now, my son’s fair wife.
There’s time for a messenger yet;
Lochiel, Appin, Keppoch, Glengarry,
We’ll all be in by the date.”
“Well for the lads that hunt the deer
And follow the Coe for salmon;
But wae for the wife and the ragged bairns
That bide in the henchman’s cabin.”
“Then easy now, my clansmen all,
I hae no will for the thing
But I’ll take the oath when the word comes
through
Frae Scotland’s rightful king.”
“Oh, see ye no’ delay too long,
See ye no’ delay,
For dark’s the shadow on hall and clan
If ye. arena in by the day.”
V.
The Earl of Breadalbane seems to flinch
And his periwig rises half an inch;
The fingers spread and the features blanch
Of the black Earl of Breadalbane.
Still is the eye of the bird of prey
Yet it seems to widen, then close this day:
“He was two days late —is it truth ye say?”
Says the black Earl of Breadalbane.
Slowly the Earl of Breadalbane stands.
His fingers crook on his stretching hands:
“The Clan Maclan and all their lands!”
Says the black Earl of Breadalbane.
"There’s an ancient war of clan and clan,
They thieved my cattle and dirked my kin,
Antf then there’s a promise I made that man,”
Says the black Earl of Breadalbane.
“Maclan, that great red insolent bear
With the cunning of hell in his sleepy stare,
Who laughed in my face when I bade him
beware
The power of the Earl of Breadalbane.”
The Earl of Breadalbane paces the room,
Darkens his face with the cloud of doom:
“The king must agree but we’ll manage him,”
Says the black Earl of Breadalbane.
“Ye can take my word to the Master of Stair,
Breadalbane comes with a secret to share
For the old red fox put his foot in the snare,”
Says the black Earl of Breadalbane.
“The old red fox in the mountain mist;
And two days late — he’s lost, he’s lost I”
And the Earl of Breadalbane closes his fist.
The black Earl’ of Breadalbane.
VI.
Round and gentle and dark and plump
Like a fat little bird in a blackberry clump.
Smiling face hut eyes of care:
John Dalrymple, Master of Stair.
Bright with ribbon and ready to hand.
Stacked in holes of the desk and mind.
Papers here and documents there:
John Dalrymple, Master of Stair.
Secretary of the Scottish State,
King’s adviser and lord of fate —
Scotland’s turmoil and Europe’s war:
John Dalrymple, Master of Stair.
Kill or be killed at this man’s bidding —
What’s the dream in those brown eyes hiding.
Framed in the periwig’s powdered hair,
John Dalrymple, Master of Stair ?
Strands run out from paper to paper,
The blackberry bush it spreads like a creeper;
Tangled in troubled and scratched with fear:
John Dalrymple, Master of Stair.
Peace in Scotland and rebels down
Or William loses the English crown,
And James comes back and where, oh, where
Is John Dalrymple, Master of Stair?
When Highland rebels harry the border
Out goes decency, out goes order:
That the popish thief Maclan should dare —
Clan Maclan, beware, beware.
The dark eyes narrow, the soft lips twitch,
They say Dalrymple’s dam is a witch;
The blackberry clump is the weasel’s lair:
John Dalrymple, Master of Stair.
A lean dark woman she had two sons
And one of them died by poison once;
One’s in his grave and the other is here:
John Dalrymple, Master of Stair.
Strands of blackberry twist and tangle;
Deep, oh, deep in the heart* of the jungle,
Dark eyes flashing and tooth laid bare:
John Dalrymple, Master of Stair.
VII.
“So big Maclan has made a slip
And laid himself in the tiger’s grip,”
Dalrymple said to Breadalbane.
“You’ll guard the, passes so none escape
And, man, it’s your plan to maul them.
“The white cold snow is over the earth,
Maclan is snug with drink and mirth,”
Dalrymple said to Breadalbane.
“The cotter takes his cow to his hearth
And now is the time to maul them.
“I stand for peace, I stand for law,
I’ve held Maclan from the tiger’s claw,”
Dalrymple said to Breadalbane.
“But man, oh, man, you tempt me now.
For, Lord, I would like to maul them.
“Do it, do it, you fiend or man.
Burn the houses, ravage the clan.”
Dalrymple said to Breadalbane.
“I’ve waited for this since time began,
Waited my hour to maul them.
“You’ll leave no chance that the birds take
wing,
But make it a sweet and secretive thing,”
Dalrymple said to Breadalbane.
“I’ll screw the word from the dull Dutch king
And, man, I think we’ll maul them I”
VIII.
Heavily droops the long Dutch nose.
Heavily hangs the wig:
“I cannot breathe in your London stews,
I cannot think in your fog.”
Lined and pale is the long Dutch face,
Black is his coat and sober:
“I fight the French in the Protestant cause;
What is this Scottish robber ?
“I do not know of your Highland feuds
Nor yet your Clan MacDonald;
If it will cure with fire and swords
Why should our State be, troubled ?”
Heavily close the sad Dutch eyes.
Slowly nods the head:
“It seems like death for a few of these,
But I have seen many dead.
“A barbarous, country, a barbarous race;
You say the man is a rebel:
What do I care what methods you use ?”
The Dutchman thumps the table.
IX.
“Oho, oho,
We know, we know,”.
The weasel said to the tiger.
“A king may sit on a velvet throne
But he turns his head when you twist his crown,
For you and I are men of affairs
And we know how things are done.”
“When you need a man he is easy found,”
The tiger said to the weasel.
“I’ve a cousin that owes me fwa-three pound;
And it shows you the way the kind gods smile.
He’s a captain that serves my Lord Argyle.
“I’ll send Glenlyon with Argyle’s men,”
The tiger said to the weasel,
“To visit Maclan down in the glen;
And I wouldna wait to see that show
If I was a stone in the glen o’ Glencoe.”
“Oho, oho,
We know, we know I”
The weasel said to the tiger.
“I like the taste of your blood-red wine
And as for the fool in the lonely glen —
Welk you and I are men of the world
And we know how many things are done.”
X.
Take Loch Linnhe’s wavelets and put them in
a sack.
Murmur on the shoreline and morning’s silver
smile,
Swinging from Fort William and past the Appin
track
Gay with pipes and pennants come the soldiers
of Argyle.
Sparkling stand the mountains, singing runs
the Coe,
Snow is in the high notes and water in the low,
And skirling up the valley, row by kilted row.
Four hundred bonny soldiers go marching to
Glencoe.
Hey, Lieutenant Lindsay I Hey for Sergeant
Barber 1
He’s the man to trim your beard with dagger
or with sword;
Up the stony mountain the panting soldiers
labor,
Green like floating branches gleams the tartan
in the ford.
Someone took the pine-tree, someone took the
heather,
With green and purple juices they dyed the
hairy wool ;
And jaunty in their bonnets with kilts that
swing together
March the Campbells’ soldiers by waterfall
and pool.
Run, you black-faced ewes, now; stare you
shaggy cattle;
Seldom breaks the silence here with kettledrums
all drumming;
Is it avalanche or flood, is it distant sounds of
battle,
The thunder in the mountains when the
Campbell men are coming?
Whose the shade that stalks there beside King
William’s flag ?
Glenlyon never threw it nor the feeble chief
Argyle:
Take the screaming eagle and put him in a bag,
Breadalbane’s power comes nearer up the
darkening defile.
XL
“Oh, come ye in war or come ye in peace,
Glenlyon, Robert Campbell ?
For ye’ve come to where the knife-edge is,
Campbell that comes to MacDonald.”
“And why should I come to the edge
of the knife
When your ain son took my niece to
wife ?”
“Oh, who was it sent ye to wild Glencoe,
Glenlyon, Robert Campbell ?
For never yet except as a foe,
Campbell came to MacDonald.”
“Since ye gave your oath to the , good
Dutch king
Ye may say he takes ye under his
wing.”
“When I gave my oath it was two days late,
Glenlyon, Robert Campbell.
Ye wouldna hae come on account o’ that,
Campbell that comes to MacDonald ?”
“A poor old soldier he takes his orders;
Ye’d no’ begrudge us our winter
quarters ?”
“Oh, I hae bannocks and I hae beef,
Glenlyon, Robert Campbell,
But your kinsman called me rebel and thief,
Campbell that comes to MacDonald."
“And should ye hae borrowed the
Campbells’ cows
It’s the better I’ll eat in your auld
stone house.”
“Yet I hae meadows and I hae land,
Glenlyon, Robert Campbell;
And the Earl o’ Breadalbane’s a grasping hand,
Campbell that comes to MacDonald
“I eat no earth and I sip no frost,
But I’ll take a wee drap wi’ a friendly
host.”
“Then I hae room and room to spare,
Glenlyon, Robert Campbell;
And aye there’s a wee sma keg to share;
So come ye in to MacDonald.”
XII.
“A card for you and a card for me,”
And I’m no’ the man that I used to be.
And damn the Earl o’ Breadalbane.
Your two tall sons go prowling round
But the devil’s hoofprints canna be found
Though he’s here this night to maul them.
“A glass to clink on your ain good glass,”
And I’m no’ the man that once I was,
And pox on the Earl o’ Breadalbane.
Your lady she sits by the fire o’ peat,
Her face is old and fierce and sweet
And her hair is grey and golden.
“A win for you and a loss for me,”
And I’m no’ the man that I used to be,
And a plague on the Earl o’ Breadalbane.
Two silken dresses against the dark,
For there’s my niece with her needlework.
And I trust no ill befall them.
“Then where’s the harm in another dram ?”
And I dinna much like the man I am,
And damn the Earl o’ Breadalbane.
I mind they painted my portrait once
In a velvet coat with a collar of lace
And a strange long chin and jawbone.
“A card for me and play your card,”
The pouting lips are scaly and hard
And a pox on the Earl o’ Breadalbane.
I’ll never be missed by the girls I’ve kissed,
I’m chained like a hawk on the rich man’s
wrist
And my yellow lovelocks are fallen.
“Fine’s the barley and fine’s the malt,”
I’ve broken your bread and ate your salt,
And curse the Earl o’ Breadalbane.
The snowy crag and the granite cliff
Rear where I’ve sheltered under your roof
And I’ll do a deed will appal them.
“There’s my guinea and show your hand,”
Fourteen days I’ve been your friend;
“Aye, and ye’ve made a haul then.”
Take your winnings and away to sleep,
Take them and go before I weep.
And fiend on the Earl o’ Breadalbane !
XIII.
“I willna hear them, I willna hear them, 1
willna hear the voices;
It’s only the sleet and the fire o’ peat and the
wind and river noises.
“1 willna see them, I willna see l them, I willna
see the shadows,
It’s the ancient armor that hangs on the wall
wi’ the spears and bows and arrows.
“Surely Maclan and all his clan sleep sound in
house and cabin
And I’m that’s their guest should know the
best that nothing is going to happen.
“And it’s no’ the sergeant and no’ the lieutenant
that marshal the men outside
But the restless cattle that move in the snow
and should hae been put to bed.
“What did Breadalbane say to. Stair and what
said Stair to the King ?
‘Kill!’ said Breadalbane, ‘Kill!’ said Stair and
the King took up the song.
“It’s only the sleet on the window pane, it
whispers against the glass,
‘Kill!’ said the King to Colonel Hill and the
word he had to pass.
“It’s only the armor that hangs on the wall with
the claymore, dirk and the shield,
‘Kill!’ said the Colonel to Hamilton, and the
order went to the field.
“Surely Maclan and all his clan sleep sound
on straw or feather;
‘Kill the old fox and all his cubs!’ said
Hamilton to the Major.
“It isna Lindsay, it isna Barber who trample
the snow to filth;
Duncanson said to Captain Campbell ‘Kill if
you love yourself T
“And who do I love if I love not me, now half
of the night is gone ?”
Glenlyon strides in Maclan’s hall and screams
to his men “Fall on I”
XIV.
“Out o’ your bed, young John Maclan,
Out o’ your bed and awa’ !
Dinna ye hear the tramp o’ boots
In. your father’s house and ha’ ?
“Dinna ye hear the musket shot
That fells the big man dead,
Clamberin’ into his tartan breeks
As he hustles out o’ his bed ?
“Up and awa’, young John Maclan
Wi’ the Campbell lass ye married;
The dark bonny lass, ye’ll be kind wi’ her
When MacDonald’s dead are buried.
“Dinna. ye hear the shriek that goes
Worse than the shriek o’ death
As the sodgers tear at your mother’s rings
Like wolves with their hungry teeth ?
“Out and awa’, young John Maclan,
Chief in your father’s place,
Take the word o’ your serving man.
Chief o’ what’s left o’ your race.
“Dinna ye see the form that goes
Naked and stumblin’ and auld,
Your lady mother they stripped o’ her clothes
To die in the dark and cauld ?
“Out the door and into the snow
And owre the mountain passes;
In Appin ha’ the lamp shines bright
But here there’s nocht but ashes.
“Dinna ye see the blazin’ torch,
Dinna ye smell the smoke,
Dinna ye hear the yells o’ death
Frae the huts o’ your tenant folk ?
“Far frae here, young John Maclan,
Ye hid your arms frae the Campbells,
Dinna ye'cry to the hills for help
Nor the river that groans and trembles.
“Here’s forty MacDonalds bleed in the snow,
Ye may say their plans miscarried
For a hundred and more are awa’ in the hills,
Homeless and hunted and harried.
“Then awa’, awa’ ! though the nicht is wild
And the Coe is bloody and swollen,
For the guest in your house was Breadalbane’s
man
And the Clan Maclan is fallen.’’
XV.
Sigh, wind in the pine;
River, weep as you flow;
Terrible things were done
Long, long ago. #
In daylight golden and mild
After the night of Glencoe
They found the hand of a child
Lying upon the snow.
Lopped by the sword to the ground
Or torn by wolf or fox,
That was the snowdrop they found
Among the granite rocks.
Oh, life is fierce and wild
And the heart of the earth is stone.
And the hand of a murdered child
Will not bear thinking on.
Sigh, wind in the pine,
Cover it over with snow;
But terrible things were done
Long, long ago.
Douglas Stewart.


d
Here's a case that will stand the rough and
tumble of school use . . . that weighs and costs less than leather
, . . that is weatherproof and smart-looking! The Globite School
Case is a convenient size ... 16 inches long . . . and it keeps
school books in better condition. Ask to see one . . . feel how
light it is! Globites are being manufactured as fast as materials
and manpower permit.
GLOBITE ; c ,v:s
Manufacturers! FORD SHEHINGTON LTD. (Wholesale only)
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND—
• In Divorce.
TO JOSEPHINE JOAN ARROWSMITH formerly of
Dalmeney Avenue, Rosebery, Sydney, in the State
of New South Wales, wife of Edward Charles Arrow-
smith but whose present whereabouts are unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been commenced
against you in the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane by Writ of Summons Numbered 53 of 1945
by Edward Charles Arrowsmrth (your husband) in
which he claims a dissolution of his marriage with
you and by his Petition filed herein he alleges that
on divers occasions during the months of April,
May, June and July 1944 at Dalmeney Avenue,
Rosebery in the State of New South Wales you
committed adultery with George Morris, a member
of the Australian Military Forces And it has bepn
ordered that service of the said Writ and Petition
on you be effected'by publishing this notice once in
“The Bulletin” (published at Sydney in the State of
New South Wales) and once in “The Sydney Morning
Herald” and once in “The Sydney Sun” both being
newspapers published at Sydney aforesaid at
intervals of at least seven days between the first
and the second and at least seven days between
the second and the third of such publications If
you desire to defend this action you must within
thirty days from the last day on which any such
publication is made enter an appearance at tjm
Registry of the said Court and in default of your
so doing the Plaintiff may by leave proceed in the
action and judgment may be given against you in
your absence. Dated this Seventeenth day of
December, 1946. —(1.5.) J. J. HERLIHY, Acting
Second Deputy Registrar. The Plaintiff’s Solicitors
are Messrs. FEATHER, WALKER & DELANEY, of
289 Queen Street, Brisbane.
m
m
2S*. ' yk
/
V -
■
rnmmm
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD.-—ESTABLISHED 1848
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
Wiht The Best!
IT'S RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Women seldom understand themselves.”
— “Sun.”
That makes it unanimous.
»!• ' dr *l*
“Ninety camel strings, each of 40 beasts,
used to go to the prosperous back country
(each beast carrying at least 4dwt.).”
— Melb. “Argus.”
The oonts, frustrated at not. being given
their usual burden, got the hump.
ijg
“Last night Joe tried to put his arm round
me three times.” — Weekly paper.
The villain was ready to do a long
stretch.
*s* *l*
“In Washington (U.S.) Mrs. Anne McGinnis
fell from a fourth-floor fire escape and landed
on a clothesline, which flipped her into a
second-floor apartment practically unhurt.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Her time to peg out had not come.
“The New York ‘Sun’ says of the filmopolis:
‘The real trouble is that Hollywood believes its
own publicity.’ ” — “Sun.”
You’re a Nobody there unless you’re
in Ballyhoo’s Who.
•J* *l*
“His family repute was not enhanced by the
fact that his grandparents had conducted an
iniquitous hotel in the slums —a notorious
breeding place for degradation and vice.”
—-Excerpt from novel.
A bar sinister.
“The scandalous food situation defies all
efforts to be hashed up.”— Suburban paper.
Our boarding-house landlady will
accept the challenge. , .
“What do We do now ?”
Rum Goings-on.
“The captain insisted I come to his cabin
to say good morning to him in bed. He
wanted to kiss me, and would bite my art®
or leg.”— Seawoman in “Sunday Telegraph.
Sea-dogs like old Sir Francis Drake
Would deem a mariner effete
Who, in his cabin s safe retreat.
Just dilly-dallied, there to take
His morning rest, and boldly make
Unmanly passes at a sweet
Young stewardess, when it were meet
That dalliance he should forsake.
But though no skipper worth the name
In times gone by or nowadays
Would thus presume to run his ship.
You must admit that just the same
One manly trait redeemed his ways —
He liked to take his morning nip.
D. H. E.
Holidays.
When all the holidays are gone
Around the corner of Tomorrow,
I’ll dream about the glittering sand,
And memories will bring no sorrow.
My voice will lift, instead, in praise
Of sun and tumbling ocean.
And all my pockets will be full:
I’m agent for a sunburn lotion.
EVE MERRITT.
Rage in Heaven.
“A Michigan pastor was granted a divorce
because his wife sat at the back of the church
and heckled him while he preached.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
My Uncle Duodecimos had similar
trouble with his wife, who objected to
his activities as a lay-preacher in a dissent-
ing sect of the Ninth-Day Adventists.
She would attend his meetings heavily
and rather voluptuously veiled, rise at the
back of the hail during the purple pas-
sages of my uncle’s hell-fire-and-damna-
tion sermons, and engage him -in a
discussion on the Arian heresy. As this
was a hobby of my uncle’s, he was unable
to resist confuting her extravagant argu-
ments, and the meeting usually became a
total loss, owing to the subject being over
the congregation’s head.
My aunt would occasionally change her
tactics by/switching the discussion to the
inadequacy of her housekeeping allow-
ance, but this could scarcely be said to
impair the success of the meeting.* As
most of our tradespeople were present,
the argument would develop into a
general debate, and on several occasions,
when uncle had % been more than usually
close with the chips, resembled a Darling-
hurst political meeting. My uncle’s re-
action to seeing the collection plate
sympathetically handed over to his wife
was curiously near to apoplexy.
It was when my aunt began sowing the
congregation with learned gentlemen, who
bothered uncle with queries about textual
interpretations during his Scripture read-
ings, that matters came to a head. In a
series of impressive fulminations he called
down the wrath of Heaven on her head,
and when a storm promptly blew up and
the church was demolished by lightning
he perished in the general debacle.
The survivors still speak with awe of
my uncle’s prowess as a hell-fire preacher.
PLUM.
Old Bore’s Almanack for 1947.
JAN.: The Sydney daily press’s latest hero,
a Famous Young Leviathan Punter, whose vital
turf engagements precluded his attending the
war, will announce his engagement, and the
“Sun” will devote the whole front page to it,
including a two-col. description of some of his
“heroic jousts” with the books, and a half-page
photo, of him embracing his fiancee after he
has just given her an £BOO platinum, diamond
and sapphire ring. Seventeen hundred more
inspectors will be appointed to the Housing
Commission to inspect the new team of building
supervisors. President Truman will predict that
price trends in th» U.S. will shortly show a
downward trend. A man who dropped a Rail-
way Refreshment Room scone on his big toe
will sue the Railway Commissioner for dam-
ages for loss of the nail.
FEB.: A defeated “Labor” member will be
appointed to the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
at £1250 a year to “represent the workers’
interests.” In defending the appointment the
Premier will claim that the appointee “brings
to the position a wide musical culture.” A
reffo who arrived penniless in Australia six
months ago will name the £70,000 block of St.
Kilda flats he has just bought Calvell Court.
A shoe-shjne in New York will go up to three
dollars 50 cents. An all-American baseball
team will include Gus Borchowicz, Lew Spic-
cado, “Butch” Jameranski, Mike Storttendorff,
Abe Organstein, Tony Spaccherini and—un-
accountably—Ben Webster.
. „ . . c,,rinpv
MAR.: The Labor appointee to the Syd y
Symphony Orchestra will, in an mterview, con-
demn the “Fascist” music of Brahms, Mozart
and Schubert and advocate the playing of
modern masters such as “Spike” Jones, “Cab”
Calloway and “Fats” Waller, whose music, he
will claim, “is closer to the spirit of the toiling
masses.” The “sensational” wedding of the
Famous Young Leviathan Punter will push a
double murder and the latest strike back on to
the third oaee of the two Sydney afternoon
papers. The will carry half-page photos
of the crowd of racing well-wishers perched on
the altar rails and of the “ugly demonstration”
against the clergyman when he refuses to go
on with the service until they get down. The
“Daily Mirror” will reverently disclose that the
bridesmaids’ orchids cost £350 and the whisky
and chapipagne for the reception £9OO.
apt • Mnsmw will announce that in future
the Party Disciplinary Corps, which escorts and
thp vntinff of electors will no longer
he P arSed w h rifles and bayoS
nnlv with knouts and knuckle-dusters
TTfil liberal sten forward MosSw will claim,'
S.WS how g e r P ahS of uTSSjSI dS
cracies the Soviet has gone in the application
of true democratic principles. A posh hostess,
it will be revealed in a court case following a
Palm Beach binge in which £l5O was spent on
liquor, screamed at a guest “Scram, you mug,
before you get your guts kicked in!”
~A V •,, -.nnrmnrp that
a
l C wo b ßritish3igraifts f wfll arrive the°Central
no band to welcome them. Mrs. Beasley will
launch another seven ships, thus bringing her
jewellery possessions almost into line with those
of London’s dowager duchesses. General Bing
Fan, the Chinese Chief of Staff, will announce
that the Kuomintang drive to oust the Com-
munists from their stronghold at For Kow Chow
cannot be resumed until supplies of ping-pong
bats, mah-johgg sets, ivory umbrella handles
and preserved ginger axe available for the
troops.
TTT . T „
JUNE: the Wlte Ot the Famous Young
Leviathan Punter whose wedding caused such
tremendous public interest in Sydney will go
back to the haberdashery. The Department of
Information’s latest brochure for the instruction
nf intenriincr miprantc will rarrv a frnnt-naee
ot intending migrants will carry a tront-page
photo, of a mutton-chop-whiskered, top-hatted,
right-trousered man about to step into a han-
som cab, over the caption “Melbourne business-
man setting out for his office in one of the
latest fleet of fast cabs.” A Soviet autonomous
State will hold its local elections, and Moscow
will cnhcemienflv qnfinnnrp that the QQ Q 8 nr
X *V“LnHiZrf Wbn wl h! nnlv
vote for Party candidates, who were the oiuy
ones allowed, demonstrates clearly that the
people are thoroughly satisfied with the Com-
munist way of life.
, ...
JULY: Izvestia will announce that a bril-
liant Soviet scientist has just invented the free-
wheel for the push-bike. An assistant union
secretary will report to the police that his Rolls-
Bentley saloon car has been stolen. A “S. M.
Herald” reader will write claiming to be able to
interpret one of the paper s art criticisms. Ihe
Housing Commissioner will announce that as
soon as the plasterers’, plumbers’, carpenters’,
tilers’ and painters’ strikes are settled a house it
started to build 23 months before will be
finished. All N.S.W. coalminers will work for
two consecutive days and the Prime Minister
will thank the miners “for this magnificent
gesture to the community.”
AUG.: A Sydney boarding-house keeper,
influenced by the popular trend, will invite a
“guest” guest to preside over the dishing out
of the hash. Sydney “Sun” will devote its
entire front page to the world-shattering an-
nouncement, complete with rehash pictures of
the “sensational” wedding, of the instituting
of divorce proceedings by the Famous Young
Leviathan Punter. Mr. Ward will disclose that
Papuan natives are now entitled to a total of
four hours’ smoke-oh a day, and that they also
enjoy the right to picket any plantation on
which they may be staging a strike.
SEPT.: Only 27 cases of butter and 75
cases of jams and preserved fruits will arriye
this month at Australia House,, and fears will
be expressed that Mr. Beasley may, through lack
of suitable vitamins, have insufficient strength
to carry on his onerous duties. At a mass
meeting Sydney wharfies will pass a resolution
condemning the British Colonial Office’s refusal
to grant free beer to striking natives in Tangan-
yika and will in consequence declare all British
ships “black.”
OCT.: The Sydney “Sun” will devote its
entire front page to the “sensational” turf
plunges of its latest heroine, popularly known
to racing fans as “The Bobbysox Bettor,”
and will gloatingly reveal that she was seen to
put £3OOO on a horse, which Ipst. Tass News-
agency will claim that a brilliant Soviet scientist
has invented a 24in. naval gun with a cork
barrel which can be lifted one hand by even a
consumptive seaman. The only sound made by
the shell, which is shaped like a giant cork-
screw, is a slight pop. The gun, it will be
claimed, can land a shell on a pinhead at a
range of 310 miles and will kill everything
within a radius of 50 miles.
NOV.: A miner at a northern N.S.W. colliery
will lose a two-headed penny in the bathhouse.
A pit-top meeting will be held and the mine/s
will all go home. Nineteen other mines will
go out in sympathy and 26,000 tons of coal
will be lost. Mrs. Jessie Street won’t make a
speech. A meeting of the R.S.P.C.A. will be
held with not a single dogfight throughout the
proceedings. Sydney police will launch a new
blitz on itinerant barrowmen and the number
of burglaries will reach a record “high.” A
man wearing sandals without socks, a purple
sportscoat, canary-yellow trousers and hair
longer than his wife’s, will turn out to be not
a surrealist artist.
DEC.: A man with an Australian accent will
ask a King’s Cross delicatessen storekeeper for
some ham and will be curtly told there
isn’t enough available “to supply foreigners.”
Sounds of bitter crying will be heard
from a conference room at U.N.0., and it will
subsequently be found that it was M. Molotov
laughing. A high Hollywood executive will con-
demn the exaggerated use of the word “colossal”
as applied to films ; he thinks “stupendous”
far more effective. Marshal Rokemoffsky, the
brilliant Cossack leader, who was regarded as
Stalin’s greatest confidant and the almost certain
successor to the Generalissimo, will be given
command of an obscure barracks in the Urals.
“Pravda” will aver that this does not mean
demotion. It is just “part of a routine shake-
up” in the military hierarchy and has no poli-
tical significance.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others 2ld. per line-
Eureka
Eureka Stockade has figured more or
less luridly, sensationally and unsatisfac-
torily in Australian writings for the best
part of a century. Now a film is
to be made about it. A film nowadays
is the last and most unanswerable stage
in fixing a tradition around a nation’s
neck, so it’s time to ask whether Eureka
really has any deep significance in Aus-
tralian history.
The underlying thesis of the Eureka
enthusiasts is that at the Stockade a
gathering Australian nationhood suddenly
burst into golden and glorious flower;
that from that hour a new conception of
Australian nationhood swept through this
continent. I wonder how many of the
hot-headed miners who actually took part
in the “rebellion” would recognise the role
which posterity has thrust upon them. In
Melbourne the other day a descendant of
the Peter Lalor who lost an arm in lead-
ing the Eureka battle and afterwards lived
to become a thoroughly respectable and
respected Speaker of the Victorian Par-
liament denied warmly that Eureka had
any political implications—a curious foot-
note to this romantic moment in our
goldmining history.
Moments of destiny are not to be
mocked, however, so before the film puts
the whole show into rosy fireworks from
which truth may fly in terror, we should
decide whether Eureka does mark a
moment in destiny, or whether it was
merely a passing incident which caught
romantic imagination.
Basically, Eureka does not differ from
upsets which have taken place on gold-
fields the world over. The Ballarat miners
resented paying for a licence, the police
authorities showed more aggressiveness
than commonsense, the miners revolted
and a clash took place. Nobody in par-
ticular benefited at the moment, but some
reforms eventually followed. The
miners were a motley lot. Some of
them were emancipated convicts (not
necessarily to be discredited therefor),
some were freeborn white Australians
and many were cosmopolitan adventurers
following the gold-lure up and down the
byways of the world. In their outburst
of anger they displayed’ something just
a little more than the average mob dis-
plays—they had some sense of direction,
some vague recognition that discipline
and a purpose were essential if they were
to win their battle with the authorities.
Misguided but determined leadership gave
them some kind of coherence, and the
dramatic construction and garrisoning of
the Stockade raised the show from a
mere mob outbreak to a level which,
nearly a century later, would attract the
makers of films.
The crude designing of a new Australian
flag gave,the rebellion an emotional signi-
ficance deeper in retrospect than it seems
to have justified—many local riots have
led to the designing of flags, but few have
persisted as integral things in the lives
of the people. The actual “battle” at the
Stockade was a walkover for the police
—the miners had shown little forethought
and less vigilance; and although they
fought gallantly while the struggle surged
through the rough little fortress they
never had a real chance.
It’s all a very interesting and colorful
footnote to our goldmining history, but
is it really the inspiratidnal beginning of
the Australian spirit? Is it truly the
birthplace of Australian nationhood?
By the same standards, the “Battle of
Lambing Flat” might be claimed as the
starting point of the White’ Australia
policy—some day we may see a film
focussing the origin of this great tradition
on the day an overwhelming majority of
white miners belted the daylight out of
a few hapless Chinese.
For myself, *1 prefer to see the Aus-
tralian spirit—the source of Australian
nationhood —as something which grew up,
not out of a riot which managed to
capture somebody’s imagination nearly
a century ago, but as something 7 much
deeper, something which had its birth on
many a lonely farm, on distant cattle-
tracks, around many a forgotten camp-
fire, in many a long-forgotten dream, In
the sopls of many poets,* articulate or
otherwise. In jhst the same way White
Australia stands as the expression of an
idea and an ideal. I should hate to see
even the best film-man turn to Lambing
Flat for his inspiration on such a theme.
And the Battle of Ballarat, as the legend
has been colored, belittles many another
less-tangible battle in lonely places and
lonely hearts, battles which did not pro-
duce a flag, but did produce the enduring
qualities without which no flag has any
meaning.— Historicus (N.S.W.).
Mining
“Alpha,” in asserting that the land is
more valuable than any gold which lies
under it (B. 30/10/’46), approaches a
very much bigger problem than the value
of our standard metal.
Rich metallic ores, coal, oil and
uranium are relatively rare. Originally
man used them for self-preservation, but,
by the growth of industrial, civilisation,
he was driven tp frantic exploitation. In
so doing he has been living on the earth’s
capital rather than on its annual income
from cultivation. So far, when the ex-
haustion of any mineral has seemed
imminent, new sources have been dis-
covered or new techniques developed to
work previously inaccessible sources.
Eventually, however, we must exhaust our
present supplies. Apparently we are
robbing future generations.
On the other hand, when we have used
all supplies of gold, copper, lead, ziiic
and tin there still remain inexhaustible
but unexploited sources of iron, alu-
minium, calcium, magnesium and the
alkalis, because their compounds form
the major part of the easily-accessible
surface of the earth. Similarly when coal
and oil are exhausted it will still be pos-
“Here's us slavin' our lives out, boay, and I spoase Cap' n's 'ome listenin'
to cricket."
sible to generate power by harnessing
wind and water.
“Alpha,” when contemplating the
apparent waste of a dead, mining town,
should consider the knowledge gained
from the years of wrestling with engineer-
ing, metallurgical and geological prob-
lems. That is a heritage we leave to
posterity, and through it posterity will
develop the necessary technique to satisfy
man’s requirements from the earth’s low-
grade but inexhaustible supplies of metals.
Thus the earth’s capital, the rich mineral
deposits, has really been invested in fe-
search.
Agreed that it is folly to subsidise
mining while allowing our soil to deterio-
rate, but there should be no competition
between the producers of wealth from in
or on the earth —they are complementary.
—Screwball (W.A.).
The Gulf Country
The M.L.A. for Carpentaria (A. J.
Smith) has suggested that freehold land
in the Northern Territory, the Peninsula
and the Gulf country should be made
available to returned soldiers free of cost.
The Minister* of Agriculture (H. H. Col-
lins) told him that it was not the policy of
the Labor Government to give away free-
hold to anybody, but in any case it would
be unwise to allot small areas to settlers
until it was determined what could be
done with closer-settlement in the Gulf
country. An expedition headed by Dr. F.
W. Whitehouse, lecturer in geology at
Queensland University, is visiting the
Gulf to test the agricultural possibilities
of large tracts of country and to survey
suitable sites for agricultural experimental
stations, later to become research centres.
So Gulf residents now realise that
they are not altogether forgotten, biff
they would have been more interested
had the Government announced that it
would recondition the Etheridge railway,
which has not been available for the
transport of heavy stock trains since two
bridges were damaged by floods in 1927.
It is estimated that it would cost only
£20,000 to repair the bridges and put
the line in order. Cattlemen are losing
that amount every year through having
.to walk their stock over rough, rangy
stock routes to the railhead open to them.
Even £50,000 would be money well
spent considering that the Etheridge Shire
area depastures about 185,000 head of
cattle. The Etheridge line runs through
a good rainfall area. Einasleigh has an
average rainfall of 30in. and most of the
districts the line serves have from 25-30
inches annually.— Outback (Q.).
A Loan to. France
According to recent newspaper re-
ports the Federal Government is unable
to advance the loan requested by the
French Government. Are we really so
short of money that we have to refuse
this loan or has the Federal Government
socked a lot of the taxpayer’s money
under book headings, to be used later for
“socialising” industry?
During the war France suffered much.
The resistance movement carried on by
patriots and the part played by the fight-
ing Free French cannot be forgotten.
Apart from sentimental reasons there
are good financial reasons in favor of the
loan. France is Australia’s third-best
customer, and the preservation and ex-
tension of our overseas markets are of
paramount importance. Further, France
is one of the most financially stable of
all countries, because of the frugality of
her people and their rich commonsense.
In more than a thousand individual bond
issues floated in the U.S.A. by 41
countries only six countries have no de-
faults to their discredit. France is ope
of them.— Economist (Vic.).
The Colored Races
These days, because of the war and
Communist propaganda, the colored races
are becoming conscious of their numeri-
cal superiority. Combined with this is a
new and deeper contempt of the white
man, a contempt resulting from, the
growth of “national consciousness.” All
over the colored world the fight is now
on against white domination. “White”
Governments the world pver are re-
sponsible for the welfare of the colored
people, irrespective of their race, creed
or color. But the hardest task of “white”
Governments is to secure the co-operation
of all concerned, a complicated enough
job in past, but a task of infinite per-
plexity since the growth of colored
“nationalism” and world-wide Com-
munism.
Australia has a “white” Government,
but it is directed by the vociferous Com-
munist minority with regard to the Dutch
in Indonesia. A white man’s base in a
sea of colored races, Australia has every-
thing to gain by co-operating with the
Dutch and other white people in their
colonial policies.
Thanks to Canberra and its insular
attitude towards “white”' Europeans, we
are well on the way to losing the habit
of thinking as white men. We are also
doing our best to forget that our White
Australia policy can remain in force
only as long as we have the support of
the rest of the white world. Remove that
support and we’d be a pushover.
Australians are so preoccupied with
their local affairs that, although
faintly conscious of the “rising tide of
color,” they are doing little or nothing
about it. —R. C. (Q.).
Bushfires
* It was not asserted in the article on
bushfires —to which G. G. Sinclair, secre-
tary of the Vic. Country Fire Authority,
objected (B. 4/12/’46)—that his organisa-
tion or any other had been remiss in
their preparations to meet the menace;
nor was it asserted that less had been
done last year than in any other. The
contrary, in fact, was definitely stated.
What was deplored was the absence of
an authority which could override all the
others and resolve the conflicts that
exist between the policies of the various
departments.
According to C. A. Daw, the Chief
Officer of the Rural Fire Brigades, cir-
cumstances are combining this summer to
make the bushfire hazard more acute than
it has been for years. Abnormal spring
rains have produced a prolific growth of
grass and small brush which will have
soon dried off. It requires only the
slightest spark to touch off hundreds of
square miles of valuable timber country,
transforming it into a raging inferno. Mr.
Daw expresses surprise at the small
amount of work done by individual
farmers to protect their properties
when the brigade was there ready to
help and advise them in clearing fire-
breaks.
This is one of the things an “over-
riding authority” could tackle. If the
individual farmer refused to do it, it
could be done for him and the service
charged up to his pocket, as is done in
matters of sanitation. —B. P. V, (Vic.).
We could leam something from the
U.S.A. in bushfire prevention. There, the
whole organisation comes under the
Forest Guards, Watch-towers, radio, air
patrols and other devices are used and
have been brought to a high level of effi-
ciency. “Smoke jumpers,” a highly-
trained team of fire-fighters who para-
chute to the scene of a fire, are the spear-
head of the system.
These jumpers have their quarters at an
aerodrome, own their own aircraft and
motor transport and are a tough bunch,
trained to the minute both physically and
in the art of fire-fighting. They save that
valuable time in getting to the seat of a
new fire —the longest time that has yet
elapsed between the time a fire is reported
until the jumpers have parachuted to the
scene is three hours. Often they have the
fire completely under control before the
Forest Guards from within the actual
zone of the fire arrive on pack-horses.
Many of our so-called safe bushfires
could bo skittled by smoke jumpers within
a few hours.— Wilydah (N.S.W.),
N.S.W. Liquor Referendum
If voters on liquor hours consider
results of late closing in other countries,
N. S. Wales will have evening drinks. Be-
fore the war the Englishman drank about
four times as much beer as the Austra-
lian, but he was not as often drunk,
despite the fact that his pre-war beer
was strong. Also he took it warm. The
secret was in slow drinking—with pubs
open from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. each night
and 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Sundays, he
knew he could have his quota leisurely
while playing darts or one of the other
games supplied in England’s pubs.
In Holland’s happier days, hotels
opened at breakfast time and closed half
an hour after midnight. Beer was of a
lighter kind than ours, but of an excellent
quality and cheap. It was common there
to see parents giving babes in arms a
drink of beer. Intoxication in Holland
was mainly confined to quick-quaffing
foreigners unused to civilised hours.
Germany appeared to have no specified
opening times. All houses were open for
long periods. Many traded 24 hours a
day. In the latter, customers took their
glasses outside at about 5 a.m. while the
tables and floors were washed. Then the
new day began. I once awakened early in
Hamburg, and went for a pre-breakfast
stroll at about 6 a.m. Sounds of an
orchestra drew me towards an open pub
where dancing and drinking from the
previous evening were still in progress.
Those who wished to sang to the music.
There was a party of hikers of both sexes
having beer with bacon and eggs before
starting the day’s outing. The only signs
of inebriation were in some non-German
seamen.
Prohibition has not succeeded in any
country. It has only created blackmarkets
and gangsterdom. The semi-prohibitionist
hours in N. S. Wales make men drink like
beasts and spoil the family evening. .We
should benefit by the experiences of other
lands where freedom is less restricted.—
Tackline S. (N.S.W.).


Typical Australians
So one of our “Labor” Senators thinks
the Westralian Prices Commissioner is a
superman because of the stable nature
of prices in his State. Apparently the
thought didn’t occur to her that the
traders themselves might deserve a pat
on the back. . , .
But then her remark was typical of
Governmental psychology. Politicians
delight in promulgating the number of
prosecutions initiated against price-
control and blackmarket offenders. Every
decent-thinking person is glad to hear
that such offenders are caught and
punished, but now and then I would like
to have my national self-respect restored
by hearing the number of investigations
which have revealed strict compliance
with legal methods of trading.
During the war we allowed, with
damaging effects to Army morale, a cari-
cature to be used as the portrait of the
typical Digger. Now we allow, with
damaging effects to civilian morale, the
blackmarketeer to be used as the typical
trader. — Peter Mike (W.A.).
Darwin
The best - laid plans of the N.T.
Administration have not considered
the human angle at all in Darwin.
Pioneers are returning and demand-
ing their old homes they see no
reason why they should be exiled for
five years until Canberra finishes “squat-
ting” on the plans. They refuse to put
their savings into land when they can only
obtain a five-year lease.
The population, somewhere about
4000, has an M.H.R. with a restricted
vote, but no council, shire or committee.
The order of the day is set by the North
Australian Workers’ Union, which calls
strikes at the least provocation. It pub-
lishes the “Northern Standard.”
, Many thousands of pounds have already
been spent and hundreds of men have
been employed clearing out whiteants and
reconditioning the standing house shells.
Lack of material is the excuse for lack
of new buildings.
Shipping companies are not eager to
send ships to Darwin, because there is
no back-loading and because they object
to having their boats tied up and paying
harbor dues while wharfies refuse to
unload. This state of affairs obtained
before the raids in 1942, and should
have been a lesson to the unionist.
The busiest people in Darwin are
the airport officials. Flying-boats and
planes pass through each day and pas-
sengers are catered for at the Darwin
Hotel, but show little inclination to linger
in these parts. They leave as smartly
as possible and, with bread at Is. 6d.
a loaf and the minimum taxi fare at
35., many residents are following them.
—P. H. Y. (N.T.).
War Gratuity
Parliament, in trying to make sure
brasshats do not cash in on the £3 a
month extra gratuity for overseas service
just by paying hurried visits to the front,
has done a great injustice to many mem-
bers of the R.A.A.F. Escort staff, who
were permanently engaged on that duty
and spent years on the high seas, were
based on an embarkation depot in Aus-
tralia and do not get the extra £3.
Further, members of such squadrons as
No. 6 and No. 99, which were officially
based on mainland aerodromes, but
operated continuously from island strips,
are also done out of the extra cash.
These squadrons worked from the strips
on which other squadrons were perma-
nently based. Their personnel get the £3
but the chappies who were only using
them as an advanced operational centre
don’t.
It’s up to the Government to straighten
the business out. — ReCco (N.S.W.).
Civics in Schools
Our system of government cannot
function properly unless citizens have
confidence in Parliament, the Courts and
the civil service, and unless they feel that
they themselves have a responsibility to
see that these bodies are efficient and
impartial. The attitude of the average
man is largely determined by partisan
newspaper reports of Parliamentary pro-
ceedings and by sensational accounts of
trials, civil and criminal, heard by the
courts. The general attitude of the Press
does not encourage a belief in the honesty
or dignity of Parliaments, police or legal
tribunals.
Very few people are sufficiently inter-
ested in their own welfare to make the
effort to see for themselves how they
are governed. Interest in local gov-
ernment is reflected in the shockingly
small proportion of ratepayers who vote
at municipal elections. Few people,
unless they are involved in a court case,
have any idea how Courts function ; fewer
still have ever attended a sitting of Parlia-
ment. In this atmosphere, where people
do not know and do not much care how
they are governed, the seeds of authori-
tarianism, Fascist or Communist, are
bound to flourish. Indeed, they are
already in evidence.
After five years in the Army and con-
tact with many types, occupations and
political creeds, I see little prospect of
arousing much interest in our adult popu-
lation. But the generation now in our
schools can be made to feel that they
will determine the future of their country.
The present curricula do not make any
real provision for the teaching of civics,
and should be revised to enable young
people to learn the principles underlying
our democratic organisation. Something
should be taught of our State and Federal
Constitutions and the powers of the
respective Parliaments, of the organisation
of the public service and the methods
of control by Parliament, of the functions,
powers and duties of the police, of the
powers —and procedure —of the Courts,
from Petty Sessions to High Court,
and of the powers and functioning of
municipal councils.
Emphasis should be laid on the extent
to which the daily life and comfort of
the people depend upon their elected
representatives, and above all it should
be impressed upon each young citizen
that he is not only entitled to orderly
and impartial government but has his
share of responsibility for maintaining
such government. Parties of children
should be taken to meetings of Parlia-
ments and of municipal councils, and to
sittings of Courts so that their practi-
cal workings can be observed.
If such a course were introduced gener-
ally into our schools we could hope for
“Don't throw it back —We can put it through the mincer."
better-informed and more critical elec-
torates in the future. —Ae Gee Too
(N.S.W.).
Orderly-room Clerk
One of the jobs in which the Army
gave little training was that of orderly-
room clerk. Most troops regarded the
job as a cushy one, but many C.Os. soon
realised that a good 0.-r. clerk was as
much an asset to a unit as a good
adjutant or R.S.M. Schools for 0.-r.
personnel were few and far between and
if there did happen to be any going the
R.S.M. or a C.S.M. was sent along to it.
Unit records are most important and
call for system, speed and efficiency.
Some were in an appalling mess right
through the war. Casualty and field
returns in many cases were about as
informative as the Department of In-
formation. These returns were simple
enough, but there was only ®ne way to
prepare them —the correct way. Natur- -
ally untrained unit clerks were all at sea,
while the R.S.M. was usually too busy to
give much time to them, even if he knew
how to prepare them.
In view of that sad state of affairs
Base Records staffs did an excellent job
sorting out correct information and
statistics from poorly and half-prepared
returns,
I was shoved into the o.r. while away
on service and had to find out how to
run the show by paying frequent visits to
near-by units. Fortunately I found a
couple of fellows who knew the 0.-r.
game thoroughly and was thus saved
many headaches. Promotion came simply
because the vacancy existed on the war
establishment. I wasn’t trade-grouped as
a clerk because there were no schools
which I could attend. - However, that
didn’t worry me because my three stripes
and a crown were confirmed, trade group
or no trade group.
When the unit arrived down south I
made inquiries at H.Q. about an adminis-
trative school. A considerate officer
promised to send a letter to my C.O.
when the next school was to be held.
A few weeks later the letter arrived
requesting the C.O. to nominate some-
one from his unit for the school. He
sent the p.-t. instructor! — Pubserv (S.A.).
House Insurance
My present home was insured 20 years
ago for £B5O, and premiums on that
amount are still being paid. I have been
told, however, and have verified the state-
ment, that insurance companies write
off a certain percentage (according to
whether the building is brick or wood)
each year. But the owner still pays the
premium on the original valuation.
In the first year the valuation, allow-
ing for 2j p.c. depreciation, drops to
£B2B 15s. At the end of 20 years, com-
pound interest, there is a big difference
between the original valuation of £B5O
and the present amount payable accord-
ing to the books of the insurance com-
pany. In case of fire the present assessed
value would be the amount paid.
As the valuation drops, so should the
premium payable each year, and the drop
in both valuation and premium should be
clearly shown on each renewal notice. —
K. J. C. (Q.).
Building Tools
It is a reflection on the relevant Gov-
ernment department, the master builders
and the Builders’ Union that special
efforts are not made to obtain, by im-
port or manufacture, tools of trade, for
apprentice carpenters and joiners. Many
lads, too young to join up, are shut out
from available supplies by ex-service
trainee preference. One apprentice
whose kit is mainly secondhand tools has
been waiting a year for a panel-saw.
These boys are in dire need of saws,
chisels, auger bits and planes. The
weekly allowance of Is. 6d. for tools does
not go far when a smoothing plane which
cost 21s. 6d. before the war now costs
£2 secondhand.
Surely the import of these items would
not have much effect on our dollar ex-
change.—Humos (Vic,).
To a Ripe Old Age
I do not quarrel with much of “Ser-
geant Damocles’s” letter on p.-0.-w. (B.
20/11/ ’46), as, having met many returned
boys, I realise a little of what they suf-
fered. But I do object to the statement
“If you fellows do get back alive count
25 years out of your life.” The same
thing was said to soldiers of the 1914-18
war. I lived on a soldiers’ settlement for
several years and found that exTservice-
men, profoundly influenced by this state-
ment, were stoically preparing for a
greatly shortened life, quite sure that
only the lucky few would ever reach 50.
Some didn’t, but the majority are still
alive and healthy. Probably they did not
suffer as the p.-0.-w. did, but doctors made
the same statement regarding their health
as has been made about returned
prisoners. It was not accurate, and there
is no proof that it will be any more
correct this time.
Give the returned soldiers the best of
medical care, but don’t play on the theme
of shortened life. With proper attention
there is no reason why most ex-p.-0.-w.
should not regain normal health and live
to a ripe old age.— Mark Time (Q.).
“A Confidential Loan”
About the middle of 1944 I was
directed by manpower to work at my
trade in the Sydney naval dockyard.
Under some regulation it was compulsory
to work the normal 44 hours a week and
until eight on one night. Often it was
three or more nights a week and Sun-
days as well. My day generally began at
5.45 a.m. and finished at about 9.30 p.m.
I worked consistently long hours —it was
the first time in my life that my weekly
pay envelope contained a little more
than enough to exist on ; there was so
much that my family Heeded and had
needed for years. Actually a fortnight’s
holiday —our first in 11 years—was all
we got out of 18 months in the dock-
yard.
My mates used to poke borak at me
and say “Why don’t you work the over-
time as we do, and take a day or two
off now and again? It’ll even out all
right, you’ll see.”
I couldn’t see it that way. Thirty-odd
shillings a week was being taken out of
my pay to be credited against my Federal
income tax, so I naturally imagined that
the longer I worked the more money I
would earn. I thought that my mates
were the mugs, content to slouch along
on ordinary money when the opportunity
was there for them to make a few extra
pounds.
Now I have before me my tax assess-
ment for 1945. I earned in those months
£551, the net tax on which is £95. My
taxation deductions amounted to
£B6 2s. 9d. I am now on a much lower
scale of earning, my family has increased,
and to meet my obligation I must borrow
£9. — Wire Buster (Q.).
Relative Importance
I should like to say a few words on
electric motors and ball-bearings.
I have just been reading an advertise-
ment about a beautiful eight-valve, world-
range radio, with which is combined a 12-
record, automatic-change, radio gramo-
phone. Housed in the same cabinet are a
cocktail-bar and a commodious wine
cellar. Immediate delivery is promised,
and prices of various models will be
supplied on application.
Sorry—l got side-tracked from the
motors and ball-bearings. I need them
to keep my little factory going, and I put
in an order about a month ago. Yester-
day the suppliers advised me that there
would be a delay of about two years on
the motors, but that the ball-bearings
will be available in March, 1948.
What a mess we would be in if we
didn’t have a genius like Mr. Dedman to
organise our post-war reconstruction for
us! — Harap (Vic.).
According to Means
Fining a man for an offence appears
to be justice, but should men be fined
equally, or should equal sacrifices be
demanded of them? There is a great deal
of difference.
A working man fined £5 pays in cash
the same as a rich man fined £5, but the
worker loses a week’s pay and the rich
man loses but a few minutes of his earn-
ings. It means hardship for one and
stamp money for the other.
Justice should mean demanding from
each according to his means. Each
should suffer equally for his offence. It
would be a fairer system if fines were
determined as a percentage of salary.
Teret (N.S.W.).
Lskc F.yyp
Why couldn’t the arid wastes around
Lake Eyre be planted with the spineless
cactus developed by Luther Burbank, the
American botanist? It is pseful for
fodder and a reasonable layer of vege-
tation would shield the ground and stop
the reflected dry heat from driving rain-
clouds away. By this means the rainfall
would be increased and erosion reduced
or stopped.
In 1920 the average rainfall around
Lake Eyre was about eight inches, but
now it is nearer four inches because
rabbits and dust have wiped out the
vegetation, A green belt of cactus might
do what nature originally intended before
man stepped in.
Already we have done the impossible
in Queensland by wiping out the prickly-
pear with cactoblastis. With a cactus im-
pervious to this insect we should try to
reverse the process in S.A. — Teret
(N.S.W.).
Atheism
After years of battling an American
unbeliever has been granted time on the
mike to air his iconoclastic views. It
is doubtful if such liberty of speech is
desirable. It is like issuing a warrant to
enter the homes of religious people with
the purpose of destroying cherished ideals
of family circles. .
Books may be bought or ignored,
lectures may be attended or avoided, but
the radio can infiltrate more insidiously
than any other means of propaganda
There is no surer way of setting brother
against brother and father against son
than starting a debate on spiritual or
materialistic dogma. Sectarianism has
bred more hate and caused more carnage
than any other ism. Atheists are just an-
other sect, but are in the nature of things
more destructive than constructive. By all
means let them teach science if they are
qualified to do so, but they should be
refused licence to stir up domestic strife
or to shatter beliefs which have brought
strength and comfort to individuals for
ages.—W.S. (S.A.).


oJi& to*
#
In recent months, thousands
of A.W.A. RADIOLAS have
been made and distributed
throughout the Common-
wealth, and large quantities
are on the way.
The manufacturing resources
of A.W.A. are greater to-day
than at any time in the Com-
pany’s history. The A.W.A.
Radiola sets a new high
standard in performance,
reliability, appearance and
value. It is acknowledged
everywhere as the best
receiver money can buy.
Although large production is being
maintained, your nearest authorised
Radiola distributor may have difficulty
in making early delivery due to the big
demand from all parts of Australia. He
will, however, gladly advise you and give
details of models which will be available.
lIRADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BY
w
iV u.b“
,e»s® le *’
lie®
JEfl
■ ■Zac'.xc
£ss“jfc<«<vs,
• y
m
is®
Models: A.C. electric power: battery
operated or vibrator power unit .
»a*iola
A Sill sl»‘ ,rt "" I,VC
w,t " ...iiiiii
b a»dsV* eB ‘ UmS
m
Models: A.C. electric power: battery
operated or vibrator power unit .
incomparable
A.W.A. Radiolette .
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
