

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3541
Wednesday, December 24, 1947
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
SLIGO’S NORMAN-STYLE CATHEDRAL IS ONE OF IRELAND’S GREATEST
ACROSS the Emerald Isle, one
hundred and thirty-four miles
from Dublin, is the market town
of Sligo, chief town of County
Sligo. One of the chief ports of
Ireland’s west coast and protected
from the Atlantic by Coney Island,
Sligo is connected with Liverpool
and Glasgow by good steamer ser-
vices. The most notable modern
building in Sligo is its Roman Catho-
lic cathedral, built in the Norman
style during 1869 and 1870, and of
which an illustration is shown:
the cathedral of the diocese of
Elphin. A Dominican abbey was
founded here about the year 1252,
and extensive ruins of this building
are among the sights which attract
the visitor’s attention. Of the same
period as the old abbey was Castle
Sligo, but it has not survived the
siege of time, and no traces of it now
remain. In the year 1613, having be-
come an important centre of trade,
Sligo was raised to the dignity of a
corporate town under the admini-
stration of a mayor and corporation.
The modern population of Sligo is
eleven thousand.


at HOI'fF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write Jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. u
tty Name
My Address
8.8. 147
AQE
The Red Page
THE FLYING DOCTORS.
The Flying Doctors are a legend in
Australia. And, though they are a recent
and an active addition to Australian
mythology, there is a legendary remote-
ness and mystery about them. In Flying
Doctor Calling (Angus and Robertson)
Ernestine Hill tells the full story —or at
least the broad outline of the story and
as many details as she can without writing
an epic in 10 volumes. Her second
chapter gives a brief summary, and some
statistics:
The Flying Doctor of Australia was the
first flying doctor in the world. To John
Flynn, a pilgrim minister of religion in
the lonely sands of the centre, came the
dawn of an inspiration that time and space
in that infinite silence can be conquered
only from the air . . . that for the exiled
settler in crisis of life and death it was
either, to use Flynn’s words, “an aeroplane
or a grave.”
This realisation came to him in 1911,
when the aeroplane, then the eighth wonder
of the world, was in Australia virtually
unknown. He has dedicated 35 years of
his life to the immortal work of sending
medical help and salvation to two-thirds of
the continent.
There are now seven Flying Doctors in
Australia, their zones covering two million
square miles The services of the Aus-
tralian Flying Doctor are free. They are
extended instantly in time of need to all,
with no distinction, of color, caste or creed
and with no calculation of cost or fee.
The movement is maintained by contribu-
tion and subscription, with Government
subsidy.
Seven doctors, 2,000,000 square miles:
those are the figures, but arithmetic never
makes dramatic reading. In the succeed-
ing pages Ernestine Hill brings the statis-
tics to life. She shows, first, what the
vastness of Australia really means —a
land where a lake is called a “water-
hole”:
Remember when you hear of “water-
holes,” in the modest phrasing character-
istic of the Australian, they refer to a
reach of river perhaps 35 feet deep for
25 miles, watering 5000 cattle for two
years. On many stations there may be
five waterholes, that even in prolonged
drought are from seven to twelve miles
long and 20 feet deep.
She describes the “stupendous” cattle
stations, the journeys of the mailmen
from outpost to outpost, the “untamed
solitudes where you can travel a straight
1000 miles without seeing any sign of
the presence on earth of homo sapiens—
from Powell’s Creek south-west to
Laverton, for example, where there is
neither road, habitation nor cattle-pad in
200,000 square miles, and where wild
blacks are few and shy.”
Then the story describes the home-
steads in this vastitude, the people, their
manner of life:
On a run of ten thousand square miles
that I know, ninety miles from nowhere,
the one lorn dwelling is a sanded wreck
eighty years old, log posts, floors of earth
and gypsum, ceilings of stained calico sag-
ging down with hundredweights of sand
that threaten to fall and engulf you. It
staggers in the sandhills in a weird maze
of claypans. Men have died looking for
this station. In summer the dust-storms
scour it every day. The smoking alps of
sand within a hundred yards are eternally
drifting in. Its people sweep, when they
have the heart to sweep, with a wheel-
barrow and a shovel. A family lives there,
sometimes eight years without a holiday,
where the summer temperature touches 120
degrees in the shade. Their bags of flour
and sugar are kept outside on a wire trellis
up from the ants, under a sheet of iron.
Lest it should be thought that Ernes-
tine Hill’s outback is as bare, as harsh,
as macabre and as dry as that depicted
in fashionable paintings of the city-
bushmen school in Sydney, it should be
added that other homesteads described
are “as elegant as any residence in a
city, set in lawns, in pretty surroundings”
and that the author has been much more
impressed by floods than by droughts in
the interior; “In 15 years of travel in
Australia I have never come to the out-
back without finding it one colossal
swim.” The floods, like the sandplains,
are convincingly described, helping to
create the setting of distance and lone-
liness :
In a miracle week the west is under
water. Every homestead is now an island
in very truth, an isle in silver seas, and,
except for the pedal radio, cut off from
the world. All mails stop dead. Cars and
trucks are abandoned where they bog,
scattered about the seascape like dead
beetles. The Three Rivers, the three-
thousand-mile rivers, Cooper’s Creek, the
Diamantina and Georgina, with their
thousands of creeks, are coming down to-
gether. The Cooper is eight feet over the
bridge at Longreach, eighteen miles wide in
its own deep channels at Windorah, spread-
ing to seventy miles wide between Mount
Howitt and Tanbar stations. Far up north
Winton and Boulia are out rescuing people
in boats to the west. The Georgina is one
big smile a thousand miles long from the
Rankine to Lake Eyre.
Having shown her readers the stations
and the homesteads, the writer comes to
some of the station graveyards: “On
Sheep Island, Camden Harbor, far-north-
west, is the grave of Mary Jane Pascoe,
who died there in childbirth in 1865. Out
beyond Forrest River in Kimberley a
‘boab’-tree was carved for Mrs. John
Wilkes and her baby in 1886. Often
enough I have found a tombstone of
four children of one family who died
within a week in the sweeping epidemics
of typhoid fever, croup, dysentery or
diphtheria.”
It is a country, says Ernestine Hill,
where, before the Flying Doctors came,
“every station had its tragic story.” Some
of these stories are told: of tragedy in
districts without medical help or hope-
lessly distant from help—drovers dying
of fever behind their cattle, 55 men dying
in two years at a tinfield, desperate rides
for aid, a boy of nine wheeling two*
younger children 140 miles to a neighbor
when their mother had died in child-
birth. A story from Wave Hill is typical:
The wilderness stations suffered most —
they had little hope. Once a boring party
at Wave Hill was afflicted with beriberi.
Fred Robinson, aged 23, died at Christ-
mas, in the wet season. Two others, Mc-
Namara and George Burnside, made a
dash for Darwin —a dash that lasted eleven
weeks. Both were helpless. Dan Carroll
drove them over 100*1111165 in a buggy to
Victoria River Depot—through days of
sweltering heat, nights of thunder, camped
without shelter in heavy rains and by the
torrents of the creeks, they were a month
getting there, to wait five weeks for the
boat. Old Matt Wilson, the storekeeper,
was kind, but he was away most of the
time, for the crocodiles were killing his
cattle. He left the sick men to care for
each other. The lugger arrived at last,
and the 500-mile voyage to Darwin lasted
ten days. Burnside was delirious most of
the way—the Malay skipper of the ship
could do nothing for him, and a few hours
after admission to hospital he died.
■ With these pictures of isolation and
immensity and these stories of often need-
less disaster, Ernestine Hill has set her
stage for the entry of the Australian In-
land Mission. First there is the romantic
account of a forgotten legacy to the
Presbyterian Church left by a Mrs. Smith
of the village of Lasswade, six miles
from Edinburgh; the decision, in terms
of the legacy, to send a missionary to
outback Australia; the pioneer journey
of the Rev. Robert Mitchell from Port
Augusta: the Rev. F. W. Rolland after
him, then John Flynn and R. B. Plow-
man. With Flynn begins the story of
organised medical help. Flynn was
shocked, says the author,
to see a bushman from Glen Helen, with
a spearhead embedded in his breast,
carried 400 miles to Oodnadatta in a camp-
sheet hammock between two quiet horses,
there to wait a fortnight for a train to
travel five days and 700 miles? to Adelaide
for medical help. He was shocked to hear
of a pioneer mother with her own hands
digging the grave of her child.
In 1906 the missioners sent the first
nursing sister of the outback, Nurse
Main, who was followed by Nurse Bett
—“These women cared for the sick in a
ramshackle bush boardinghouse, with a
list of patients that might include an
Oxford graduate with delirium tremens, a
turbaned hajji of the camel camps with a
poisoned foot, and a black baby out of
a mia-mia.”
In 1911, “among the goats and bottles
of Oodnadatta,” John Flynn and Robert
Mitchell dedicate the first of the nursing
hostels, and in 1912 the Australian Inland
Mission is constituted, the Presbyterian
Church of Australia adopting two-thirds
of the continent as a special medical mis-
sionary area, with Flynn as superinten-
dent. After the “Tuckett operation” at
Hall’s Creek—when, foreshadowing the
medical advice now given over the radio
by the Flying Doctors, a stockman was
operated on by the postmaster in accord-
ance with instructions telegraphed in
Morse code —and after it had taken a
doctor 12 days to cover, as Ernestine Hill
says, “1250 Flying Doctor miles” to find
the patient dead, not of the operation,
but of debility and malaria, the nursing
sisters moved on to that outpost:
Within that year there were two A.I.M.
sisters, Sister Rogasch and Sister Madigan,
bound for Hall’s Creek in a buggy drawn
by four horses over the ranges from Wynd-
ham. While they were on the way some-
body shot the storekeeper, and they
travelled the last forty miles at a gallop.
It was a “fever” year. The old mud-brick
hospital was filled with patients waiting,
also a Jhall built by the diggers in the
’eighties*. A maternity case was in the
wash-house, away from infection; and the
expectant woman’s father was brought in
next day, his ear kicked off by a horse.
Such was the beginning of A.I.M. history
at Hall’s Creek.
Hospitals made oases in the wilderness ;
but the wilderness, the enormous dis-
tances, remained. And even if, a
young Victorian medical student, Clifford
Peel, suggested in John Flynn’s “In-
lander” in 1918, an aerial ambulance with
a Flying Doctor could solve that prob-
lem, how would the man in the aeroplane
know when and where he was wanted?
Only radio and the aeroplane combined
could give a swift and efficient medical
service to the outback. And, since every
station would have to possess a trans-
mitter, the sets would have to be cheap.
Ernestine Hill now brings Alfred
Traeger on to the scene —“a young elec-
trical engineer of an inventive turn of
mind who had just made a small 600-
volt generator”—and records his long
co-operation with Flynn, step by step to
Traeger’s invention of the pedal wireless.
The gradual improvement of this trans-
mitter, from the first days of the use of
Morse only, to the addition of the “Morse
typewriter” and then to the perfection of
an instrument that would transmit the
human voice, is in itself an absorbing
story.
With a plane available from Qantas,
and with the pedal wireless workable,
the A.I.M. in 1927 decides to establish a
Flying Doctor base at Cloncurry for one
experimental year; and in May, 1928,
Dr. K. St. Vincent Welch arrives at
Cloncurry and meets pilot Affleck with
the aerial ambulance Victory. In
November of the same year Flynn and
Traeger, who have been distributing their
pedal-radios up and down the country,
arrive at Cloncurry just in time to tune
in to the Melbourne Cup. It is a happy
omen. In that first year Dr. Welch
covers 20,000 miles in 50 flights to 255
patients, and the experiment is continued.
From this point, as the*Flying Doctor
service expands, so does Ernestine Hill’s
material. Somewhat jerkily, with anec-
dotes thrusting themselves in simply be-
cause they were too good to leave out,
but on the whole capably and compre-
hensively she grapples with the geography
of a continent and a history of continu-
ous drama. When one day begins she
is following Dr. Allan Vickers, flying to
the aid of a stockman whose horse has
fallen with him on the rim of the Simp-
son Desert; next morning Dr. Vickers is
off again on a 500-mile flight from Boulia
Hospital to a child with meningitis at
Normanton. A page further on Dr.
Vickers is swimming a flooded river,
chancing the crocodiles to bring life to
another child who, on a station then 80
miles from the nearest wireless, has been
three days in a coma. An eight-year-old
girl at Kyuna is taken to hospital at
Cloncurry in a flight that lasts 80
minutes, and by the time her parents
arrive by car seven hours later, she has
been operated on and is out of danger.
There are stories of Dr. Rossell, who
flew 8000 miles in three months and who,
on the last flight of the Victory before
Qantas replaced it with a new Fox
Moth, flew “twelve hundred miles in two
days through headwind and heavy rain,
in country where landing-grounds were
far between and no other plane yet
sighted”—a return journey to Innamincka,
near where Burke and Wills died on
Cooper’s Creek, to perform an operation
by lamplight.
Dr. Fenton, who belongs not to the
A.I.M. service but to the Northern Ter-
ritory Medical Services, under the Depart-
ment of the Interior, which co-operates
with the A.1.M., bursts, as Ernestine Hill
says, “like a Chinese rocket” into the
story and makes history by flying his
own plane. Ernestine Hill rightly says
that a Flying Doctor has to crash to make
“news” for the dailies and that, in Dr.
Fenton’s case, “when the doctor redeemed
Kimberley from a bad visitation of
malaria in which 14 white men and scores
of natives died . , . when he made a flight
of one thousand miles with tetanus
serum to save a man’s life in long medical
vigil . . . these were not worth a para-
graph” ; yet, being human, she cannot
resist a few of the more colorful Fenton
stories ; how, on his way to Ban Ban
Springs, where a woman of 71, helping
her husband in the stockyard, had been
gored by a scrub bull, he force-landed
for the night in a dry swamp of the
Upper Victoria River, and next morning,
crashed; and how
he ran out of petrol over Tanumbirini,
which is nowhere at all to speak of out
around the Limxnen River, to be found, in
time, by Flight-Lieutenant Hely, beside a
waterhole and obscured in clouds of flies.
For four days he lived on concentrated
food, then found a bogged cow. He cut
its throat with a pocket knife
Still another man of medicine and of
adventure is Dr. Alberry, who spent a
week marooned between the Gregory and
Nicholson rivers, living on malted-milk
tablets, after what he and his pilot be-
lieved to be shrubs turned out to be -the
tops of trees in a flood ; and who “in ten
years has flown well over 300,000 miles,
to tiny townships remote in the ranges
of Cape York, Georgetown, Einasleigh,
Forsyth, Batavia and Coen rivers, little
gold shows and miners’ camps lost in the
hills round them ... to the missions of
the Gijlf in monsoon, Mapoon, Weipa
River, Arakoon, Mornington Island,
Groote Eylandt, racing the hurricane
home, lightning playing in every gleam
of metal.”
The lightning strikes also on Ernestine
Hill’s book. There are faults, certainly,
in Flying Doctor Calling; journalese]
cliches, some unwise purple passages
much decorated with dots, and some in-
coherence in the arrangement of material
and movement of the narrative. There
is a tradition of unsophistication in Aus-
tralian travel writing—the reverse of that
fine English tradition of belles lettres in
which, as in the travel writings of
D. H. Lawrence, Conrad, W. H. Hudson
and Aldous Huxley, one finds some of
the best prose in the language—and to
some extent Ernestine Hill has fallen a
victim to it. At times her book is more
like raw material than the finished
article and as a whole it is more like a
preliminary survey of the Flying Doctor
story than the polished history which
must some day be written.
But the faults have their compensating
virtues, in that the purple patches bear
witness to a genuine enthusiasm and the
disjointed pages are crammed with fascin-
ating material. There is spaciousness in
this book, the vast Australian continent
and an impassioned love for it. With its
pictures of life in the outback, its crowded
dramas and its magnificent theme, it is
so rich a book that one canftot imagine
any Australian who would not wish to
read it. And, of course, a splendid docu-
mentary film could be based on it.
Merchant and Traveller.
There can be few experiences more
frustrating than to pick up a book entitled
—say — Blood on the Hibiscus, in lively
anticipation of mystery and carnage, with
perhaps a flavor of horticulture, only to
find oneself embroiled in the inner life
of a middle-aged businessman; or the
metaphysical musings of a minor and
sedentary poet; or the love-life of a
leprechaun; or something equally blood-
less.
A virtue of Reginald Orcutt’s Merchant
of Alphabets (Jarrolds) is that there is
no such deceit. The author, a linotype
salesman who peddles his fascinating
wares in most of the civilised and un-
civilised parts of the world, actually sells
alphabets—Arabic, Icelandic, Cyrillic and
the rest. Not the least interesting part of
an unusual book is that which deals with
the machine itself: —•
Far more than the layman may find it
easy to appreciate, every good type-letter
is fraught with the human spirit. Whether
its essence stems from the Humanists of
the Renaissance, or comes from the artistic
expression of tomorrow morning, its beauty
and clarity and thus its legibility and
function—stem from the genius and per-
sonality of the artist who designed it and
the craftsman who brought it into being.
To translate the original letter design
from drawing into type —to recapture, truly
and completely in cold every charac-
teristic touch and nuance of feeling of the
artist —is the task of the matrix engineer.
From the purely mechanical viewpoint his
craft must cope with countless infinitesimal
accuracies that are worked out mathemati-
cally to at least three decimal places.
About the linotype Orcutt writes lov-
ingly, almost poetically. His experiences
in a rich variety of countries are inter-
esting, chiefly in relation to the business
he does there, and whenever he strays
beyond the narrow but absorbing field
of business and machinery—to sunsets,
ethics, literature —his opinions are ex-
cellent, not to say exemplary. But though
the author, in travelling widely, has seen a
lot, it is a matter of amazement how
much he has somehow managed not to
see.
True, he meets celebrities of all nation-
alities but there is no vivid portraiture,
no richness. Severe attacks of dip-
lomacy and reticence reduce the
book’s value as entertainmcnj, and the
trouble is augmented, it seems, by educa-
tion. The author wishes to make, his posi-
tion plain from the start. He has been to
Harvard, he can discuss books ; on occa-
sion, he can take a plunge into history
and return with some well-worn tag.
Whereas had he been content to write a
book about linotypes he might have
written something genuinely original.
With all faults accepted, it is still
interesting to read of the problems of
dealing with machinery executives in
Soviet Russia, of the aspirations of little
Baltic States as evidenced in the desire to
buy linotypes, of inflation and social
customs in Athens and of the type of
Oriental business diplomacy—with a
strong flavor of Arabian Nights phraseol-
ogy—which the author found successful
in securing an order in Turkey. But,
although there is no violent shock of
disillusionment, there is a slow and steady
trickling away of interest after the
promising opening on machinery, a
visible drop from the high promise of
the title. “Alphabets,” after all, have a
wide and splendid connotation, embracing
as they do all written knowledge. And
Marco Polo was a merchant. Mr. Orcutt
remains obstinately an American busi-
nessman.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
.. **
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
T'ri.
A
// SUG> GtS
to
Ki
r<
SSiiis
ft
s:
m
i
I
0®
®
t#
a*
3. — SONIA Compacts, the ideal
gift. Price 10/6
4— SCENT BOTTLES, imported,
assorted colour stoppers. Ea., 4/6
S.— PAULDING'S Boronia, a linger-
ing perfume. Price, bottle .. 4/6
I
6
3. —FIEVRES Andre Chapus, Paris
Perfume. Price 15/8
7.— PERFUME BOTTLE in exquisite
cut glass, with perfume spray, 52/6
8. —LESOURI "Fleur de Paris,
whispering of enchanted evenings.
Price, bottle 16/9
m
&
m
9. — CHRISTY'S "Fantasy" Perfume
with its strangely intriguing aroma.
Price 3/6
Mi
r-o
rv
10.— SWAN OF AVON Cologne and
Lavender, a fragrance that is
lasting. Price 5/9
8
-ARABIAN NIGHT SETS contain-
j exotic perfume in a large and
tall bottle. Price 11/6
w
W J
s
\
I
EXOTIQ Eau de Perfume, in an
ittractive gift box. Price .... 12/6
I
2.— EL DORADO Eau de Cologne,
packed in a gold gilt box 30/-
u
.—CORINNE "Grand Slam" with
3 intense, exciting aroma ... 15/6
m
a
x
• Perfumery Section —
Ground Floor, PittJStreet.
mm
&
X 1
W
/
*
THONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


WEIGHT
APPROX.
TONS
r
The “MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY,
MARS MACHINE
TOOL MEG. CO. PTY. LTD.
fs
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE —R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI —The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q’LAND UP
MEEHANITE
METALS
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
If he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BAREO Con-
dition Powders.
Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BAEKO Condition
Powders and apply BARED Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your do£ always with
BARED lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP ... -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE,
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 24K) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
"■'Well, people certainly
like my ice-cold
Vickers Gin
n
6)
In fact, it’s my star turn, and
I don’t know who likes it
most, the men or the women. It’s very
little trouble, and the flavour! It’s
the sort of taste you dream about!
Try it—here’s how you make it”.
A request to United Distillers Pty. Ltd., P.0.80x
759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, will bring you
FREE, an attractive book containing SO tested
recipes for cocktails and long drinks. Write now.
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SI NCE 1750
VGI9/33
Legal Notice.
IN THE MATTER OF THE WILL AND ESTATE
OF CHARLOTTE DEEBLE late of Hobart in the
State of Tasmania Widow deceased.—WHEßEAS by
her will the abovenamed Charlotte Deeble deceased
devised unto the Public Trustee who is the trustee
of her said will her house and land known as
“Louisville” situated at No. 35 Bay Road New Town
in Tasmania upon trust for such body of persons
incorporated or unincorporated as is by law consti-
tuted and empowered to manage, and maintain a
home or homes for sick and injured soldiers and
sailors and airmen from the present war Provided
such body is prepared to accept a transfer of such
property for the purposes aforesaid and to desig-
nate such property “The Charlotte Deeble Home”
AND WHEREAS by an order dated the Twenty-ninth
day of September 1947 and made by the Supreme
Court of f asmania on a summons taken out by the
trustee of the said will of the testatrix for the
determination of certain questions arising in the
administration of her estate an inquiry was directed
as to whether or not it is possible to establish such
a home as the testatrix by her said will sought to
have established NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
all bodies of persons incorporated or unincorporated
claiming to be entitled under the said recited devise
of the said house and land known as “Louisville”" to
accept the said devise and which are desirous of
doing so are on or before the 30th day of January
1948 to send by post prepaid to the Registrar of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart the full name and description and the
address of the principal office of such body or per-
sons together with full particulars of the claim of
such body of persons; and in default thereof they
will be excluded from any benefit of the said devise
unless the Court or a Judge on application otherwise
orders.
The Sixteenth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and forty-eight at 10.30 o’clock in the fore-
noon is the time appointed for adjudicating upon
the claims before His Honor the Judge at the Judges’
Chambers Franklin Square Hobart aforesaid.
A claimant not being in Tasmania must send with
particulars of its claim the name and address of a
person in Tasmania to whom notice to the claimant
can be sent. DATED this Ninth day of December,
1947. —(L.s.) J. R. REX, Principal Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words and music of the ballad “Idle
Dreams”; also words of poem “Little Toby
Tusselman.”—4l7l.
Australian sailor (18), stationed New Guinea,
would like to correspond with young Bulletin
readers, preferably residents of Victoria. —4170.
Words of verse by Walter de la Mare entitled
“Haunted” and beginning:—
The rabbit in his burrow keeps
No guarded watch, in peace he sleeps.
,—4177.
Words and musical score of “Champagne
Charley.”—4l76.
To buy instruction book for a No. 2 Folding
Brownie camera. —4175.
English reader would like to receive copies
of The Bulletin and other Australian periodi-
cals in exchange for English papers.—4l74.
Name of the author of a commemorative
ode which won a competition in Melbourne
about 1907, beginning:
God guide Australia,
Motherland we love.
In high celestial strains
May angels waft our hymn above.
—4173.
Words of poem “The Pioneers” published
about 25 years ago in the Sydney “Town and
Country Journal”; also words of poem “The
Stockman’s Last Rest.” —4172.
Information Sought.
How to get better blooms and more vivid
colors in hydrangea shrubs?
From the time the flower-heads start to form
give plenty of liquid manure made from stable
refuse, sulphate of ammonia or nitrate of soda,
and regular watering. Cover moisture-seeking
surface roots with rich soil; do not cut them
off. For brighter colors give the blue varieties
frequent doses of loz. sulphate of iron or loz.
sulphate of alumina dissolved in two gallons
of water; apply lime freely to the pink sorts.
♦ * * *
Method of soldering a nipple of a motor-
cycle cable? Is sweating in with a very hoi
iron necessary?
(1) The most satisfactory method of perform-
ing this operation is by a process known as
swathing, by which the nipple is placed over
the cable and hammered in a special way to
compress it on to the cable. (2) The strongest
soldered joint is obtained with a clearance be-
tween the surface to be soldered of three- to
six-thousandths of an inch. There is no advan-
tage in applying excessive heat.
* * * *
(1) Approximate date of the introduction of
the restriction in the areas of wheat to be
planted in Australia after the outbreak of the
1939-45 war? (2) Names of the Prime Minister
and Federal Minister in charge of agriculture
at the date of introduction of the restrictions?
(1) This was covered by the Wheat Industry
Stabilisation Regulations (No. 268 of 1940)
gazetted on November 29, 1940. (2) The Prime
Minister was Mr. Menzies, and the Minister
for Commerce, administering the regulations,
was Sir Earle Page.
* * *
What is the M.C.C. law concerning the
running-out of W. Brown in the recent India
v. Australian XI match at Sydney?
Law 28 reads: “If in running or at any other
time when the ball is in play the batsman is
out of his ground, and his wicket be struck
down by the hand dr arm with ball in hand”
he is run out. Note (b) states that “at any
time when the ball is in play either batsman
can be run out by any fieldsman, including the
bowler,”
Brief Answers.
A.L.G.S.: Adam Lindsay Gordon was born
at Fayal in the Azores on October 19, 1833
E.F.McL.: The Bulletin was Bd. from July 4,
1918, to January 30, 1919; from May 6, 1920,
to December 29, 1921, it was 9d E.H.*:
Those pills are no longer on the Australian
market 1.M.M.: At your age rheumatic ten-
dencies and neuritis are liable to occur. Slow-
ing of the circulation aggravates muscular pain
in the uric-acid subject. Benefit from short-
wave therapy and massage is obvious. Local
heat application should be continued. Curtail
sugar, red meats and starchy foods and add a
pinch of Epsom salts to the morning glass of
hot water. Your doctor will prescribe for pain.
... .F.H.G.: (1) Priority is conferred by regis-
tration, not by stamping. If no other dealing
with the land has been registered the transfer
would not be endangered, but it should be
stamped and registered forthwith. (2) The
document is liable to a fine in addition to
ordinary stamp duty.... J. 8.: (1) You may use
it but it has no heraldic significance or privilege.
(2) “To God, the friend of our country”....
0.F.: Notice to quit must allow 30 days to
quit. The Court on an application for eviction
may allow further time... .E.D.: The grafting
of plums and peaches is performed in early
spring. However, in the case of peaches better
results are usually obtained by budding.
Pamphlets on budding and grafting may be
obtained from Agricultural Dept., Sydney....
8.R.: The International Olympic Committee at
a meeting at Sweden recently defined an amateur
as “one to whom sport is nothing more than
recreation without material gain of any kind,
direct or indirect”... .B.B.: In 1937 Ajax ran
second to Avenger in A.J.C. Derby and second
to Hua in V.R.C. Derby; and had triple vic-
tories in the V.A.T.C. Memsie Stakes (’3B,
’39 and ’4O) and Caulfield Futurity Stakes (’3B,
’39 and ’40)... .H. 8.: (1) The firm has gone
out of business. (2) Suggest that you get in
touch with either T. S. Nettlefold, 189 King-
street, Melbourne, or R. Simmons, 493 Church-
street, Richmond (Vic.)... .A.8.C.: The Legal
Aid Bureau, Mercantile Mutual Building, 117
Pitt-street, Sydney G.M.: A series of leaflets
setting out the conditions attached to the prin-
cipal tenures under the N.S.W. Crown Lands
and Closer Settlement Acts have been posted.
H.S.: Subject to any regulations made
pursuant to the Local Government Acts by the
Municipal or Shire Council in a district, there
is no law in New South Wales preventing the
carrying on of the business of permanent waving
and general hairdressing in the homes of clients,
nor would any permit be required H.V.Y.:
Suggest you write to the American Consulate,
7 Wynyard-street, Sydney.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— Irr Divorce.
TO JOHN DOUGLAS SMITH.—TAKE NOTICE that
HAZEL MAVIS SMITH has filed a Notice of Motion
for Permanent Alimony and Maintenance in suit No.
4083 of 1945 returnable before the Registrar in
Divorce Supreme Court House King Street Sydney on
the 17th day of February 1948 A copy of the Notice
of Motion and Affidavit in Support is obtainable free
of charge from MESSRS. HAROLD R. BUSHBY
STEED & CO., Solicitors, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
TO ALEXANDER JOHN WILLIAM SPENCER or
JOHN SPENCER formerly of Oastlemaine Victoria.
—TAKE NOTICE that MONA RONALDEEN
SPENCER (otherwise Mona Ronaldeen Mullins) has
instituted proceedings for nullity of marriage against
you on the ground of bigamy Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s office of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne Victoria on or before the 14th
day of January 1948 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs If
you intend to defend you must also .file an answer
in the said office on or before the 7th February 1948.
—T. A. KENNEDY, 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IF DOREEN FRANCES McKVOY (n4e Hamilton),
age approximately 30-85 years, whose last known
addresses were 62 Warren Road, Marrickville, Syd-
ney, 4 Charles Street, Enmore, Sydney, and Wootoon
Private Hospital Staff, Darling Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney (possibly employed under her maiden name),
would communicate with QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES,
LTD., 895 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, Aus-
tralia, she will hear something to her advantage?
Or anyone knowing her whereabouts kindly com-
municate with Queensland Trustees, Ltd.
TO DONALD WILLIAM MARSDEN McKENZIE.—
TAKE NOTICE that Garnishee Orders Nisi have been
made in favour of CONSTANCE BERYL MARY
McKENZIE of 11 Motherwell Street Hawksbum in
the State of Victoria against JAMES GEORGE Mc-
KENZIE and COLIN BODMAN McKENZIE as ex-
ecutors of the Will and trustees of the Estate of
James McKenzie late of “Llanos” Hampton and
Stanley Streets Brighton in the said State attaching
your interest in the said estate to answer judgments
recovered against you by the said Constance Beryl
Mary McKenzie in the Supreme Court of Victoria in
the sum of £225/3/- under a judgment No. 669 of
1938 £465/9/6 under a judgment No. 176 of 1943
and £l5l/5/10 under a judgment No. 870 of 1944
Together with interest at the rate of Eight per
centum per annum on the said several sums from the
date of the said judgments respectively until pay-
ment and the costs of such garnishee proceedings
AND THAT the said Garnishee Orders Nisi are re-
turnable in the Supreme Court of Victoria William
Street Melbourne on Thursday the sth day of Feb-
ruary 1948 at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon when
garnishee orders absolute may be made against the
said James George McKenzie and Colin Bodman Mc-
Kenzie that they should pay to the said Constance
Be/yl Mary McKenzie out of your interest in the
said estate the amounts of the said judgments inter-
est and costs.-rH. E. ELLIOTT & DOWNING, 31
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor? for the above-
pamcd Judgment Creditor.
CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO C//^
n
\
Sweet and Dry
Cinzano, the world's best Vermouths and
the world's finest aperitifsl
VERMOUTHS
Since /dV6
CINZANO
V ERMoUTH
M WfH
'mi
m
USE
itrrf/w ‘" BSAII£
Finished in woven-striped, wafer*
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
In limited supply, but production
is increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINSTON LTD.
Wholesale only
pfiS>
WMWO
'Y'7-4>
It’s a great feeling, on the road,
to know the other fellow is
your friend. The “Share-the-
Road” badge tells you that.
The “Share-the-Road” League
is a vast brotherhood of motor-
ists who are courteous, compet-
ent, thoughtful—who consider
other motorists and pedestrians
at all times. Join the League
and be proud of the Badge on
your car—you’ll be happy in
the knowledge that YOU are
an accident avoid'er.
HOW TO JOIN.
You can join at garages and service
stations throughout the State. . .or
at your nearest Shell Office, Depot
or Agency. . .or by filling in the
form below. You will receive your
membership card, and the “flag”
badge, as shown above but in full
colours, for your car.
s@m ufflg
SHARE-THE-ROAD
H H /A\ (B DD H
. fill in enrolment form . . . NOWS
and post to the Shell Company of Australia in your capital city.
THE PLEDGE
I pledge myself to support the Aus-
tralian Road Safety Campaign and to
obey the rules of the Share-the-Road
League.
THE RULES
Drive safely at all times; observe all rules of the
road; show courtesy to other drivers and to
pedestrians; display the “Share-the-Road" badge
on the back of your vehicle. \
NAME (Block Letters)
HOME ADDRESS
MAKE OF CAR
LO 4071! E
For Safety’s sake USE SHELL MOTOR OIL
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
S.T.E.: A patchwork of worn phrases....
N.K.: “The Philosopher from the Back o’
Beyond” is a dreary and verbose person and
has been sent back to the Back o’ Beyond
T.C.: No use writing for a junior Sunday-
school class G.8.C.: “Call of the Far West”
might be a call to anywhere else. And, any-
how, it’s an extremely feeble call A.L.:
Same old yarn with the usual exaggerations.
L.E.W.: Cooked your geese... .H.A.M.:
Come in and bring the hound:
The noble Dog evolved by Nature’s hands,
Whose name is known in near and distant lands,
Midst ice and snow, midst drought and heat
Heroic feats he does repeat.
When his master speaks he follows ■ every word,
In his barking speech replies to what he’s heard;
The plaything of the whims of all mankind,
No better friend can man e’er wish to find
For faithfulness and deep sagacity,
His mind quite free from all hypocrisy.
C.S.C.: A variation of a very ancient yarn.
. ...P.P.: It wants a light touch, and yours
is—well, not light A.R.McC.: There is no
more irritating way of telling a story than
through the lips of a bore R.M.: Heavy
village drama turning on the difference be-
tween the color of the eyes of twins no use
here P. 5.8..: It hurts to deny the world your
remarks on the “indifference of youth to
spiritual values.” But it has to be W.J.8.:
That dream business has been done to death.
G.E.T.; Quite so:—
Where much has passed Since Botany saw Cook’s
barque heaving-to, .
Since Phillip found Port Jackson, tnat jewel of
ocean blue,
Yet still the shaping epic, the unwrote tale or song
In poesy’s sphere will hover and wait the pensive
throng.
T.M.: Why don’t you try reading some
of the things we print and seeing for yourself
what is wanted? ... .A.M.: It only says the old
things and doesn’t say them well F.T.R.:
As a schoolboy yarn it’s not badly done;
but, then, we don’t want schoolboy yarns
W.D.Y.: You ask us to send it back “cor-
rected” so that you may learn something.
That, brother, is beyond our power J.S.:
Doesn’t make a yarn as you tell it J.D.A.:
Can’t find a smile in it H.W.M.: A rambling
yarn without point... .M.P.A.: Mechanical
stories with impossible incidents are not
marketable at 252 George-street H.G.T.:
An old down-and-out, the worse for liquor,
mistook a parson for an old drinking cobber
—only that F.T.R.: One hath a thin
imitative look and the other cometh to naught.
Bellerive: Noise is one of the great
problems of the age:
... .E.A.S.: They don’t strike us as either
bright or original F. 8.: Your covering letter
describes your maiden effort as “good rough
prose.” Rough, yes; good, no M.J.8.;
You have the sort of humor that sees mirth
in a stout matron slipping on a banana skin.
SJ.L.: Only enough in it for a par
C.0’8.: Story about a repentant card-sharper
handing back his loot is too improbable
N.H.: Might stand a chance with a crisper
handling of the finish D.H.D.: Note that
you have struck a place outback where the
flies are bad... .L.G.W.: A re-hash of an old
story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.K.: We heard the Art Editor humming
the “Funeral March” as that effort made its
exit L.A.D.; Not one of the six gained a
place C.T.W.: A neat and tidy pair, but
devoid of humor... .R.G.E.: Try us with some-
thing larger and with a bolder line G.M.:
A little more polish is called for H.D.M.:
“I’ve not as yet had any published.” 1 You
should when your work improves L.M.8.:
You’re down near the bottom of the class
C.8.L.: Looks like a jig-saw puzzle... .K.F.Y.:
Take a cold, critical look at those legs
P.M.H.: Nrt one of them sparkles... .W.E.G.;
You’re getting into a field that’s already over-
crowded J.H.S.: A terrible libel on the sub-
ject L.F.C.: Interesting, but only because
of the desk floating in the air HJ.P.:
Picture of gentleman in a belltopper digging
a grave has been sent to the Undertakers’
Union for criticism A. 8.; Ancient wheeze
badly illustrated.... L.H.: Our cellar is over-
crowded with variations of that Bank Grab
gag CJ.S.: Too scratchy and the humor
doesn’t appeal,.. .L.H.C.: All have been drawn
before and by far better artists Jodd: Not
acceptable; not even as an idea... ,R.A.: You’ll
need a few years at an art school to pull you
through... .W.H.: Nothing to laugh about.
A RHYME OF SOUNDS.
Doleful’s the bleating of
Sheep in their pens.
Noisy and shrill is the
Cackling of hens,
Welcome outback is
The patter of rain,
A re-echoing whistle
Of a speeding train.
There’s solemnity in
The evening breeze
Softly sighing through—•
The shadowy trees.
Of wafting sounds
A most dreaded din
Is a boy a-banging
A kerosene-tin.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIA’S HELP TO HITLER.
“The United States and Britain,” de-
clares “World Report,” “are taking steps
to acquaint the German people—and the
rest of the world—with some of the things
that went on behind the scenes during
the period of Nazi-Soviet collaboration
at the beginning of World War II.”
The information it is intended to give
out is that gathered from captured Ger-
man State papers and countless other
secret documents which fell into U.S.-
British hands when Germany collapsed.
In the normal course they would prob-
ably not have been made public for
years; “World Report” says “the fact
that the Western Powers have decided to
ignore custom is traceable to the mounting
bitterness of the Soviet propaganda cam-
paign against them,”
The figures, based on “an official
accounting of how Stalin helped Hitler
by mobilising the resources of the Soviet
Union to provide for the German
Army,” make nonsense of the sedulously-
cultivated Communist representation that
Russia sent Hitler only token supplies.
It sent him enormous quantities when
they were greatly needed and gave him
other help as well. The thoroughly
documented account shows:
The deal for supplies was signed in
Moscow on Aug. 19, 1939, less than two
weeks before Hitler launched his blitz-
krieg on Poland. Prior to the signing
of the agreement, trade between the two
countries had been lagging. Soviet ex-
ports to the Reich in 1939 did not total
much more than 27 million reichsmarks.
Soviet imports from Germany amounted
to a million reichsmarks less.
In 1940 Russian shipments to Germany
skyrocketed to 14 times the' 1939 value.
And in 1941 the Russians were delivering
at even double the 1940 rate —until Hitler
abruptly invaded the Soviet Union on
June 22.
The goods Germany sent Russia in
return came nowhere near matching the
value of the supplies received. Under
the agreement, as originally signed, Ger-
many was to have extended Russia a
credit of 200 million reichsmarks. The
deal, as it worked out, wound up with
the Russians extending credits to Hitler
instead, Berlin was indebted to Moscow
for more than 234 million reichsmarks.
The increases in Russian shipments to
Germany were sensational in virtually
every category, but especially in grains.
In 1938 Germany was getting no grain
from* Russia. In 1940 it received 810,813
metric tons. Deliveries in 1941, up to
the time of the invasion, were 713,493
tons.
With oil it was a similar story. Rus-
sia’s exports to Germany jumped from
5000 metric tons in 1939 to more than
700.000 tons in 1940 and were continuing
at close to that annual rate in 1941 when
Germany attacked.
To Germany cotton was a vitally
needed raw material; the blockade had
completely cut off Germany’s normal
sources of supply. The Russians pro-
vided 355,000 bales in 1940, and another
327.000 bales in 1941. The largest quan-
tity Moscow had exported in any previous
year, to all markets, was 204,000 bales.
Also in the 1940-41 trade figures
Russia emerges for the first time as an
exporter of tin, copper and nickel. In
1940 the Soviet Union surpassed both
Norway and France as a supplier of
nickel to Germany, despite the fact that
Hitler’s troops had occupied those two
countries by the middle of the year. The
Russians even managed to deliver some
tungsten, one of the scarcest materials
in Germany’s war economy.
The statistics also show that Russia
filled 55 per cent, of Hitler’s import re-
quirements in manganese, 71 per cent, in
chromites, 73 per cent, in phosphate rock,
40 per cent, in raw timber, 44 per cent,
in pulpwood, and 57 per cent, in ply-
wood.
The records examined by “World Re-
port” show that in return for the fore-
going supplies Russia collected mainly in
production machinery, but not enough of
it: “On a strictly commercial basis the
Russians lost money on the trade deal
with Hitler. However, they more than
evened the reckoning by the territorial
and political concessions obtained from
Hitler during the life of the trade pact.”
Further authoritative information on
the partnership from the same source:
Russian - German co - operation from
1939 to June, 1941, was not confined to
a booming, if one-sided, frade in strategic
supplies. Documents coming to light
represent Moscow as an active partner
of Berlin in other ways. For example:
Russia provided Hitler with a naval
base near Murmansk. Commerce raiders
outfitted there.
Russia made possible at least one
highly successful German raid on Pacific
shipping in 1941. Moscow provided the
icebreakers that cleared the way for a
Nazi cruiser across the top of the world
to the Bering Sea, the starting point for
her foray.
Russian icebreakers again secretly co-
operated during Germany’s 1940 cam-
paign in Northern Norway. This cam-
paign ended in the British disaster at
Narvik.
The records show the Russians as
“bargaining with Hitler to extend their
own orbit, taking over weaker States with
his sahction.” They show also that “the
supplies from Russia were a major factor
in bolstering Germany’s strained
economy during most of the first two
yeaft of the European war.”
U.N.O. IN INDONESIA.
U.N.O.’s interference in Indonesia,
which no doubt Dr. Evatt would list
among that body’s “achievements,” has
been looked into by George Fielding
Eliot in N. Y. “Post.”
The basic cause of the trouble in Indo-
nesia, reports Eliot, has been that the
native “Government” cannot control its
army, much less the armed bands roam-
ing the countryside; hence “its agree-
ments have little if any meaning.”
Whatever the more moderate native
political leaders may decide or agree to, a
triumvirate of worthies outside their
control Soedirman, Mustopo and
Sutomo ; one of them said “to have been
guilty of many outright murders of Dutch
and other white prisoners”—can simply
say “Go on shooting, and to hell with
these collaborationists.”
It was that situation, says Eliot, which
exhausted the patience of the Dutch;
therefore “they determined to try to clear
as much territory as possible of the armed
bands and knock out General Soedir-
man’s army, in order that negotiations
might be resumed”;
These objectives were in a fair way to be
accomplished when the U.N.’s “cease-fire”
order brought major Dutch operations to a
standstill. That this order did not bring all the
shooting to a standstill is due to two factors:
u rme( l bands kept on raiding behind
the Dutch forward positions, and had to be
mopped up to protect peaceful inhabitants;
(2) the T.R.I. [the so-called National Army]
kept on witfc “needling” tactics against Dutch
advance forces.
Even if the Dutch yielded to the clamor of
some sections of the American press, with the
sardonic concurrence of Mr. Gromyko [and
Communists and their dupes in Australia], and
withdrew altogether, this would not restore
peace it would merely hand over the
55,000,000 peaceful inhabitants of the Republic
to the tender mercies of Soedirman, Mustopo,
Sutomo and company—ably advised by the
Moscow-trained Communist leader Alimin.
“Much suffering,” concludes Eliot,
“would have been avoided, many lives
saved, and the cause of peace and free-
dom for the Indonesian people would
have been greatly advanced if the Dutch
had been permitted to finish the job
without interruption.”
“CALCULATED RISK.”
The many attempts to improve
U N O.—themselves the measure of its
ineffectiveness—include a plan worked
out by “Foreign Affairs” editor Hamil-
ton Fish Armstrong and presented in his
book The Calculated Risk (Macmillan),
It boils down to members of U.N.O.
signing treaties of mutual defence that
would become operative immediately one
of them was attacked, without waiting
for the Security Council to act. It has a
somewhat familiar ring; but its origi-
nality lies in its mass character, in which,
of course, would lie also its strength.
The plan is not merely a private-
opinion affair; a statement in N. Y.
“Times” that “the United States decided
not to press the Armstrong plan at this
session of the General Assembly” sug-
gests its adoption officially.
The “calculated risk” is that it would
be interpreted in Moscow as directed
against the Soviet Union. All to the
good, Armstrong says in effect, because
it would help the men in the Kremlin
to' realise that “the preponderant forces
of the world are likely to be thrown
instantly and decisively into the scale
against aggression.”
One improvement effected in U.N.O.
by the recent General Assembly session
was the setting up of what’s called the.
Little Assembly—a standing body with
all member nations represented on it
(Russia and satellites threatening to boy-
cott it and ignore its findings and recom-
mendations). The principal use of the.
Little Assembly, as N. Y. “Times” re-
ports several delegations view it, is “to
prepare the way for more radical mea-
sures in the event that the Soviet Union
continues to block the will of the
majority ip. the Security Council.”
The chief of those “radical measures”
in sight is the Armstrong proposal: “If
continued Soviet opposition proves the
Little Assembly is not drastic enough,
there is strong evidence indicating that
the calculated risk proposed by Mr.
Armstrong will be the next step.”
SOVIET IN GERMANY.
For Scripps-Howard, Henry J. Taylor
reports from Berlin that the only possi-
bility of Germans turning Communists
would be “if their level of industry is
kept down so low that they cannot be self-
supporting.”
In Taylor’s view, they see Stalinism as
the same thing as Hitlerism —“a big man
at the top and the little men ending up
in the graveyards”;
They do not think Stalin is any wiser than
Hitler. As a Communist and a Russian—as
well as head of the Red Army —they like him
not at all. Efforts to sell him to the Germans
have been a resounding flop. His giant pictures
are down from their perches in the Soviet
district [of Berlin],
Even the Russian sponsorship of Commu-
nism is soft-pedalled in party paraphernalia and
propaganda. Party workers themselves erased
the Red hammer-and-sickles from German walls
after less than seven per cent, of the Germans
in the free zones voted Communist in the last
elections.
During the Russian siege, and for months
after the victory, Berlin and every area the
Red army penetrated underwent a reign of
terror that the Germans (whose army terrorised
Russia in a similar way) will not forget.
Moscow radio broadcasts of friendship for
the German people fall flat in the face of
that. Only a combination of fear, hatred and
disgust grips most German men and women
about Russians.
Taylor’s conclusion is that if, in such
circumstances, American policy cannot
restrain Communism in Germany, then
it would not be able to restrain Commu-
nism anywhere in Europe.
THE LEVELLERS.
Claiming that Britain was getting
around the “recovery corner,” Mr. Morri-
son said that “to share things out equally”
the Government had had “to ask some
people to accept a lower standard of
living.”
Writing in “Wall-street Journal” on
this theme William Henry Chamberlin
holds that Government levelling “is
always downward”: —•
Soviet leaders in official pep talks may talk
of having abolished poverty and slums. But,
as any traveller in Russia can testify, they
have only universalised both.
England, in a milder way, has also learned,
or should have learned, the lesson that even
division of a small cake is no substitute for
failure to bake a larger cake. It is true, of
course, that Britons with higher incomes have
been taking a heavier cut in the standard of
living than people with lower incomes. But
the national standard of living has declined.
There has been heavy national impoverishment.
And the fall in the standard of living would
have been much -heavier if it had not been
for what Winston Churchill, with blunt frank-
ness, once described as the American dole,
namely the so-called American loan of
$3,750,000,000.
Grim rationing, price control (with its familiar
accompaniment, scarcity of goods) and crushing
taxation have dangerously weakened the in-
centive value of money. A vicious circle has
developed, in which the individual worker feels
little motivation for harder work, while only
hard work can prevent the depressed standard
of living from falling still lower.
Far from abolishing poverty, the levelling
regime in Britain has universalised it. Of all
the numerous queues which are such a feature
of post-war British life the most cheerful,
judging from photographs, is the one composed
of people making arrangements to emigrate to
Canada.
Levelling in, Britain, as in every country where
it has been tried, has represented a downward,
not an upward trend. It has been no sub-
stitute for the high productivity and individual
initiative which represent the only effective cure
for poverty.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Corns Have Company. —U.S. State Depart-
ment in its current clean-up is (as a N. Y.
“Daily News” writer puts it) booting off its
payroll “drunks, sex perverts and Communists.”
* * * *
Treaty Breaking. The final trouble with
Hitler was that his word was worthless, but
even he looks a novice at breaking solemn
contracts compared with Moscow and satellites.
The value of their pledged word has reached
the low ebb where, as reported by Washington
“Post,” President Truman is said to have no
fewer than 200 instances of “treaty infraction”
on his desk.
* * * *
Off to California. —U.S. official departmental
figures show California as “the target for the
most massive population movement in United
States history”; an estimated increase since
1940 of some 2,600,000. With the flow in
over California’s borders keeping up at the
rate of 1000 a day, an increase of another
million is expected by 1950. “Some observers
believe that the present trend —seen as part
of the dynamics of the world —is but the begin-
ning shift toward the development of the Pacific
Basin.”
* * * *
H.C.L., Very. —“ There isn’t,” says “World
Report,” “a country anywhere on the glqbe
untouched by the presence or the menace of
galloping inflation.” Using 1937 for comparison
in living costs, it adds that: Costs are less
than double in only a handful of countries—
the U.S., Britain and its Dominions, Switzer-
land and the Scandinavian nations. Costs are
more than double everywhere else. Rate is
three times pre-war in Czechoslovakia and
Mexico, four times in Spain, six times in Fin-
land and Bulgaria. Costs have gone through
the roof in France and Italy. Average is about
13 times the 1937 level in France, about 50
times it in Italy. “This begins to look like the
road Germany travelled in 1923,” adds “World
Report.” “It is the path on which China is
far advanced today. As a matter of curiosity,
China’s index of living costs—l 937 equalling
100—stands at 3,066,000.”
* * * *
Saar'Swings to France. There has never
been a more sweeping reversal than in the
election which was in effect a referendum on
the political and economic future of the Saar.
As reported by a Scripps-Howard correspon-
dent, “More than 92 per cent, of those eligible
voted, and nearly 92 per cent, of the votes
were for candidates pledged to economic uni-
fication with France.” In the 1935 referendum,
“after 15 years under the League of Nations
mandate and 10 years of customs tie-up with
France, 92 per cent, of the 98 per cent, bal-
loting voted for incorporation within Hitler’s
Germany.”
* * * *
U.S. Losing in China. —While Washington is
anxious about saving Greece and Turkey, spend-
ing upwards of half a billion dollars to prevent
their being overrun by Soviet forces, there
is equal reason, in the view of various com-
mentators, why it should be anxious about
China. In “Life” former U.S. Ambassador to
Moscow William C. Bullitt has commented:
“If China falls into the hands of Stalin, all
Asia, including Japan, sopner or later will fall
into his hands.” Scripps-Howard foreign
editor William Philip Simms asserts that
“according to every informed observer on the
spot, we [U.S.] appear to be losing China to
the Reds by default.” Simms adds that
“Manchuria seems doomed, as does Sinkiang.”
Another Scripps-Howard writer reports from
Shanghai, quoting a Chinese spokesman: “You
Americans have got to decide one simple ques-
tion and soon. Can the United States under
any circumstances allow this country to go
Communist? If the answer is yes, you’re on
the right track now.”
* * * *
The Personal Element. —Anthony Eden, in a
“Foreign Affairs” article: “Complete concen-
tration of control, by whatever agency, involves
a restriction upon the freedom of the individual,
and a consequent obstruction to the full growth
of personality. But it is surely indisputable
that human progress is only made possible by
such individual development and the heights
of achievement tb which men and women, by
their own talents, attain. No nation’s history
is long enough, nor its record proud enough,
to allow it to dispense with the breeding of
greatness.”
* * * *
U.S. Palestine Order. —Reporting from Rome
“an increasing influx of Jews into Italy from
Germany, Austria and Eastern Europe,” a
“Christian Science Monitor” correspondent gave
news of a somewhat belated U.S. Government
action: an order to “its official representatives
abroad to co-operate with the British Govern-
ment in preventing Jewish refugees” from reach-
ing Palestine. The order went out from the
U.S. State Department “because of the par-
ticipation of American Jews in the departure
and handling of the refugee ship Exodus.”
* * * *
Russia’s Jap Prisoners. —By the Potsdam
Declaration (aimed at encouraging the Japs to
surrender) it was specifically promised that all
Jap forces, after being disarmed, would be
allowed to go home. To that Russia subscribed,
on belatedly coming in. But the Russian word
is worthless. Former U.S. Secretary of State
Byrnes has quoted Mr. Sebald, of General
MacArthur’s staff, as stating that in October
the number still remaining in Soviet-
controlled Russia was 761,000 and in Manchuria
67,000, making a total of 828,000. “Estimates
of the Japanese Foreign Office do not differ
materially from our figures. Every day the
Soviets hold them as prisoners it is an inex-
cusable violation of a solemn pledge.”
* * * *
Crusade for Prosperity. —Referring to Con-
gress action on the Marshall Plan as likely to
prove “the most important decision of the
twentieth century,” “Life” quotes a leading
economist as placing at the head of economic
errors “failure to appreciate the enormous
dynamic possibilities of the American economy,”
and adds: “His own estimate of the national
income for the years 1956-60 is $260 billion —
nearly a third higher than now. If by then
Europe is also ip business at the old stand,
we can together lead such a crusade for pros-
perity in the rest of the world as has never
been seen. Communism will have lost its
favorite breeding ground, the swamp of
economic hopelessness. The Marshall Plan will
have proved to be the D-day of the peace.”
* * t- *
When Wheat Price Tumbled. Y.
“Herald Tribune” George Soule has recalled
what previously happened in much the present
sort of post-war situation: “Prices were high
after World War I, as at present, because of
extraordinary demand from Europe. But loans
from the U.S. to European purchasers began
to run out, and there was a shortage of dollars
with which foreigners could buy U.S. products.
They were hungry and needed the food, but
they could not pay so much for it. The result
was that in 1920 the price of wheat fell; within
a year it was at the pre-war level. Europe
got the wheat, but at lower prices. As much
was exported in 1920 as in 1919.”
* * * *
Soviet-made History. From an “Izvestia”
article by Col. N. Bakanov, issued by the Soviet
Embassy in, of all places, Washington: “Two
years ago the Soviet people and its army, led
by Josep Stalin, defeated militarist Japan and
together with the other Allies compelled it to
surrender.” Also: “By its brilliant victory
over the Jap Kwantung Army [nine days after
Japan had surrendered and Hirohito had
ordered his troops everywhere to lay down their
arms] the Soviet Army deprived the Japanese
of their last chance of dragging out the war.
Japan surrendered unconditionally.” Moral of
this quaint Embassy handout: “The Soviet
Union is a great Pacific Power and no matter
how much international reaction would like to
by-pass this inescapable fact, not a single ques-
tion of further policy in the Far East can be
settled without it.” Winch, as the Yanks would
say, is what they think.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3541
Wednesday, December 24, 1947
CHRISTMAS CAROL.
“We’ll make it a rousing trio, John, since Joe’s gone cold on us.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
A LOST YEAR.
As they look back over the long trail
a-winding through the year 1947 from
the shattered dreamland of “Labor’s”
New Order, Australians must feel them-
selves due —indeed, overdue —to call a
halt on the track on which they find
themselves.
The national unity required for
restoration of the country’s economy
from war-time wastage does not exist.
There is “full employment” of a kind —■
nearly one-fourth of the persons em-
ployed draw pay from swelling Govern-
ment departments and from municipal
offices —without full production of any-
thing except wheat and wool. The “right
to work” gained—in circumstances
already vanishing—the “right” to prevent
work in sufficient volume, by strikes, go-
slow and other detestable expedients, has
been seized by union bosses and mobs
and conceded by spineless “Govern-
ments.” The promise of a Golden Age
has been swiftly followed, and from the
same quarter, by the threat of a depres-
sion. And there is regimentation, now
exercised for its own sake, which, as in
Britain, is “making our accustomed life
impossible” and “establishing tyranny on
anarchy,” together with a “class war”
which, unchecked, v/ill ruin this country,
and is designed of malice prepense to
ruin it.
There was more faith in the Federal
“Labor” Administration during the
darkest hours of the war than there is
now. Then there was government by
regulation, but for a clear purpose ; re-
striction of civilian goods, but under an
accepted call for prior service demands'.
Now there is restraint on liberty and -en-
terprise without reason, scarcity on an
organised scale without visible limit or
objective. The standard of living is de-
clining with home production, and home
production will inevitably decline still
further.
Scarcity, organised by unions with the
Chifley Government’s consenting silence,
is now, under the dollar cuts, to be the
official policy. Yet it need not be if the
unions permitted 40 hours’ honest work
in the week instead of limiting output to
a mere cripple’s performance in coal-
skips filled, or bricks laid per hour, or
weights hoisted in wharf slings, or in the
units of work done in shipyards, docks
and metal foundries. Organised shortage
is the Communist policy. Hard work is
anathema. Easy money and pressure-
group tactics to get it are the order, and
no head of an Administration with a
proud majority in Parliament and abso-
lute powers in the executive has ever so
basely abdicated to pressure-group tactics
as Mr. Chifley has done. These “Labor”
people seek what they call “weapons”
against the depression they invite. To
Mr. Chifley the Bank Grab Act is such
a “weapon” ; Mr. Holloway requires, he
says, permanent control of prices as a
“weapon.” But of “weapons” to disci-
pline union executives, no\y utterly arro-
gant and out of hand, there is no men-
tion.
With all the powers they possess over
banking and credit already, with the clear
run they have in Parliament, with the
opportunity offered as Australia entered
the post-w&r years, what have these
“Labor” politicians, so profuse of elec-
tion pledges, given the country in such
fields as housing, soldier-settlement, in-
dustrial output and arbitration, export
trade, removal of war-time controls, im-
provement of transport and reduction of
taxation? Little or nothing, or worse
than nothing.
Nearly two and a half years have
passed since hostilities ceased. Yet of
20,000 servicemen who have in that time
applied for farms in N. S. Wales alone,
only 373 have been placed (81 of them in
the Western Division scarcely inclusive
within a Commonwealth scheme) and
fewer still in other States. After two
years of stupid refusal the Common-
wealth hag lately agreed to accept “single-
unit farms” —official jargon for financing
a soldier in purchase of a farm outside
a group subdivision. The N.S.W. Lands
Minister, though “Labor” himself, does
not mince his words about the farce of
duplicate, triplicate, even quintuplicate
inspection by Commonwealth depart-
mental officers of every State-approved
area Resumed for servicemen. “This top-
heavy and useless method,” he says,
“could not find favor with anyone who
desires efficiency.”
Similarly the Chifley Government
smothered with controls all home-
building, until, in sheer impotence, it
handed that business over to the States ;
but its continuing dead hand on coal,
shipping, timber imports, and above all
its sabotage of the Arbitration Court,
have throttled every industry upon which
housing programmes relied. The “stream-
lining” of arbitration, meaning the re-
placement of the Court authority with
that of semi-absolute “conciliation com-
missioners” mostly picked from Trades
Halls, was supposed to expedite aWard-
making and remove a leading cause of
strikes. It has done nothing of the sort.
Militant unions are as rebellious as ever.
Blackmail is one of their “weapons,”
and they apply it not only to Cabinets and
communities but to Commissioners and
Courts.
The 40-hour week, that other so-called
producer of peace in industry, will fail
as “streamlined” arbitration has failed,
and will cost more. “Labor” assurances
that it would not interfere with produc-
tion are proving as worthless as anyone
of commonsense expected. In some trades
it is merely providing extra time for off-
side jobs at blackmarket prices on which
no taxation is collected. Cost of all goods
is soaring from these causes, and as prices
go up’ with them the pre-war standard of
living is falling along with that freedom
of the average man which is the other
casualty in the advance of socialisation.
Australians returning home from long
absence overseas, weary of the strains of
the European war theatre, are asking dis-
mally what has happened*to the spirit and
energy and good-fellowship that once
characterised the people of this country.
Mr. Casey, among them, said that, apart
from India, he knew of no people so
divided as Australia by petty animosities.
Yet, as though disunity were not rife
enough, the Chifley Government set the
community by the ears with its' legislation
to socialise the trading banks —a move
conceived in sectional , bitterness and
utterly unnecessary for the control of all
banking advances, operations or interest
rates. Knowing that it would be, and
must be, challenged in the Courts, the
Government planned the meanest of
schemes to forestall that by overnight
displacement of bank directors. Even
when this was defeated, as it was in the
pre-Christmas week in the High Court,
the Government pressed with threats for
haste in the hearing (and that also was
defeated)—exactly the tactics of any mili-
tant union in jockeying arbitrators for
immediate attention under threat of a
general strike.
Australia can, perhaps, hold out for a
short time as a paradise for the work-shy
and for the parasites who exploit the craze
for all forms of gambling. “Workers”
may, with luck, pretend for a while some
imitation of prosperity on dirt money*
danger money, stink money, attendance
money and industrial hi-jacking of every
other description. But the awakening is
not far off. Mr. Chifley desires to “gear
our economy” to meet it by socialising
everything, and 1947 has shown convinc-
ingly exactly the sort of Australia that
“Labor” would fashion. What the elec-
tors will expect to hear without delay in
1948 is the constructive remedy for this
dry-rot that the Liberal-Country parties
in alliance propose. By the time this so-
called “government” by “Labor” has
dragged on for another year, that remedy
will have to be bold, strong stuff if Aus-
tralia is to be saved from a smash.
Desperate Remedies.
The collapse of the Foreign Ministers’
conference in London clears the decks
for the reconstruction of western Europe
and the handling of the peace treaties on
a basis of reality, and puts Communism
and Western Democracy in their right-
ful places —in opposing camps.
The U.S.S.R. was given every chance
to enter a friendly comity of world
nations and—here with the utmost indul-
gence—to be treated as civilised. The be-
havior of its Government has been marked
by an effrontery beyond precedent and
by a baseness only possible to a ruling
gang which has made lying and intimida-
tion, robbery and murder, part of its
system.
From August, 1939, to June, 1941,
Moscow was on the side of Germany.
Its newspapers and leaders uttered no
word in deprecation of the dreadful
bombings of London and Coventry, but
denounced the British blockade of Ger-
many as revolting. Throughout the world
Communist parties, under • orders from
the Comintern, then with H.Q. at Vienna,
were organising strikes in munition fac-
tories of countries opposed *to Hitlerism
—as they did in Australia. They also
opposed recruiting and demanded peace
with the Third Reich on the ground that,
Poland having been partitioned by the
First and Second Robbers, there was no-
thing more to fight for.
Two authorities defined the Russian
position. Stalin in a telegram later
quoted by the British* Labor party -
assured Ribbentrop that the friendship or
the Soviet and German peoples had been
“cemented by blood.” And Adolph
Berle, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State,
declared that the Communist party by
1941 had become so much a part of the
Nazi organisation that it was never sure
where its orders were coming from
Moscow or Berlin.
Hitler turned on his ally. Immediately
a yell went up from the Kremlin —to be
echoed* by every comrade the world over
—that it was the duty of the Western
democracies (no longer “corrupt and de-
generate”) to rush to the aid of the Soviet
Union, in which 12,000,000 political
prisoners were rotting in concentration
camps ; and, though it was realised that
the consequences would be serious for
Britain, aid was given without stint.
A series of frightful Russian defeats
was retrieved by the great victory of
Alamein aqd the re-armament and equip-
ment with transport of the Russian
levies. In armed mobs they afterwards
poured westward, snatching everything
handed to them with ungrateful snarls
and treating their civilian enemies with a
savagery which would have disgraced
Assur-banipal. Rape, plunder and tor-
ture went with them into Germany,
Hungary and Austria —a Germany which
had been defeated by the West, as history
will prove.
Arrived in Germany, the disorderly
Eurasian columns demanded that they
should be allowed to take Berlin, which
was at the mercy of the Anglo-American
armies. In an evil hour for the world
and for his own standing in history, Mr.
Roosevelt assented. So to the Elbe
poured the masses from the steppes for
the messy triumph to which the greatest
propaganda fakers of all time insisted
that they were entitled.
The first acts of the Kremlin after the
downfall of Germany should have made
it clear to statesmen that neither defeat
nor victory had changed the ultimate
objective of the U.S.S.R. The emissaries
dispatched abroad from Moscow to steer
reconstruction in conquered countries
were all known as treacherous terrorists
of the Comintern executive. Rakpsi was
sent to Hungary, Dmitrov to Bulgaria,
Pauker to Rumania, Beria to
Poland, Togliatti to Italy, the army
deserter Thorez to France, Kuusinen to
Finland and Hoxha to Albania. All had
orders to organise Communist control of
trade-unions and to destroy democratic
and peasant parties by “liquidating” their
leaders.
Meanwhile, east of the Elbe in Europe
and east of the Manchurian border in
Asia the Iron Curtain came down. Yugo-
slavia, Bulgaria, Albania, Poland, Eastern
Germany, Austria, Rumania, Hungary,
Czechoslovakia were all marked for
immediate or ultimate inclusion in Stalin’s
empire. Every one, as a preliminary to
complete conquest, was stripped of its re-
sources to thy last pound of iron, and as
much of its manpower as could be re-
moved.
By Mr. Bevin’s reckoning the Russians
have appropriated £1,750,000,000-worth
of materials from Eastern Germany alone.
Manchuria, after the unresisted Red
Armies had passed over it, was a hollow
shell.
Nor have these and other plunderings
satisfied the Russian appetite for repara-
tions, The last demand was for
£2,500,000,000-worth more from Ger-
many and the lion’s share of the
compensation which the Japanese will
pay. The latter claim amounts to
sheer impudence in view of the fact
that the U.S.S.R. not only did not fight
Japan until that country had capitulated,
but had neutrality and trade agreements
with Tokyo for nearly the whole period
of the Jap war with its allies. Australia,
which has agreed to accept 8 per cent, of
the reparations to be exacted from Japan,
and to hand half of it into the interna-
tional pool, contributed 50 times as much
as Russia to the success of the war in the
Pacific.
It was inevitable that there should be a
break in relations between East and West.
A concert of nations has never tolerated
such a condition of affairs as that which
has prevailed in U.N.O. Abuse of those
who rescued their country has poured in
a livid stream from the lips of Molotov
and Vyshinsky, the latter a cold-blooded
executioner of untold thousands of
innocents.
The events which led to the break have
made Soviet motives and intentions clear.
Korea has been communised. The Com-
munist armies in Manchuria and China
have been equipped with Japanese and
Russian arms and trained by Russian
officers. The obvious objective is the
creation of a Communist China, a tool in
Russia’s hands, before the negotiation of
the Japanese peace treaty.
In France and Italy Communist-led
strikes, which must have been in train
from the moment Moscow decided to
dish the Marshall plan, were launched
on the eve of the Foreign Ministers’
meeting, synchronising with a Red
Balkan union and a movement of
troops to the Adriatic. ' Capture of
France and Italy for Communism would
have meant a Communist-controlled
Mediterranean and a swift Communist
conquest of Spain and Portugal, and
would have made the Anglo-American
position in Western Germany untenable.
The peace then would have been made
in Russian terms by virtue of Russian
conquest. Austria (in which Molotov
claims extra-territorial rights) would have
been engulfed, along with Greece, and
probably. Turkey and the Scandinavian
countries.
Behind all this programme of Com-
munist conquest, and partly explaining it,
is the bad internal situation in the
U.S.S.R. How bad it is nobody west of
the Iron Curtain really knows, but the
run on the banks, the devaluation of the
rouble and the accompanying wave of
propaganda about the destruction of
blackmarkets and rich speculators, which
the friends of the Soviet paradise had
always declared to be a horrible mono-
poly of capitalist countries, are very signi-
ficant, though far from suggesting a state
of affairs conducive to peace. The con-
dition of the people may be so desperate
that their incapable and conscienceless
rulers may descry in a foreign war of
conquest their only means of relief. That
war could consist of Trojan Horse insur-
rections in non-Communist countries and
the drift westward in armed mobs of mil-
lions of Slavs and Asiatics, cleaning up
what remains of the resources of Western
Europe like a plague of locusts. Such
wars have happened before as effects of
conditions such as exist in Russia and all
its satellite States —misery and misrule,
fear and greed.
"Labor" and the Bookmakers.
Depression thoughts are here again, and
with them another melancholy disturb-
ance of N.S.W. “Labor’s” traditionally
happy relations with the betting interest.
Among “Labor’s” depression measures
in 1930 was a Winning Bets Taxation
Act. Morosely objected to by “the boys,”
it was tempered for them by being ex-
tracted from punters, “at the rate of one
shilling in each ten shillings of the
amount of each winning bet,” sum staked
included. Receipts were Unexpectedly
small, one of the reasons being a great
transfer of punting money from race-
courses to all descriptions of s.p. joints,
which pay no tax; and presently “the
amount of the wager was excluded from
the taxable amount.” This expedient was
of no avail, and, the “Tories” coming in,
the tax was abolished (October 1, 1932),
being “replaced by a one per cent, turn-
over tax on the operations of book-
makers,” in process of time reduced to
“one-half of one per cent.”
This was the position when the A.J.C.
and the S.T.C. (the McKell contribution
to the defeat of Japan) announced an
additional turnover tax of one per cent.,
half the proceeds to go to the State “Gov-
ernment.”
“The boys” were outraged. “Mr.
W. Mulligan, one of the most spec-
tacular fielders at Randwick,” confided to
an innocent reporter that “the levy” would
“hasten” his “decision to retire as a
bookmaker and move on to South
Africa” —a rather perilous place for
“sports,” as the late “dashing” Mr. Rufe
Naylor found to his discomfiture. (Inci-
dentally, the calamity of Mr. Mulligan’s
departure would be a special blow to a
Federal “Labor” Minister, who, from a
position behind the Mulligan stand, takes
a lively interest in the libretti compiled
by the Mulligan clerks). Others of the
registered gentry protested that the new
impost was “iniquitous” and would
drive them out of “the game.” A meet-
ing of the Paddock Bookmakers’ Asso-
ciation was summoned. The proceedings
were not reported, but the resolution
arrived at was communicated to the press
—“All members will apply for renewal of
their licences under the conditions to
apply from January.”
Before the agitation subsided two
“Labor” politicians were heard from.
One, Mr. Baddeley, the Chief Secretary,
professed 'astonishment at the decision
for the levy—this when his own “Govern-
ment” must have been consulted as to
what it would want for its cut! The other,
Mr. Geraghty, the member for North
Sydney, turned from his darling theme,
the setting up of “a Racing Appeals Tri-
bunal” headed by a Judge, to “express
surprise” at a statement in the “Daily
Telegraph,” with which racing-mad organ
he has been arguing in full-page articles,
that “a reporter found me in Parliament
House talking to Mr. Mulligan.” The
aggrieved tribune went on to refer to “s.p.
betting, which is illegal and which the
State Government is trying to stamp out.”
Though Mr. Mulligan, Mr. Baddeley
and Mr. Geraghty are not humorous in
themselves, they have the Falstaffian
quality of exciting humor in others.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Going Home.
It is settled belief in the United States
that Americans who die for Old Glory
in foreign wars remain, as it were, part
of the nation and must for ever sleep in
the sanctuary of its soil.
So, as in 1917 #nd after, though of
sad necessity on a far greater scale, the
American dead of the Second World War
are being exhumed and taken home. In
1 this part of the world the solemn task of
disinterment has been completed and
made the occasion for moving ceremonies,
particularly in Brisbane, where General
MacArthur shaped his victorious strategy,
and which saw more Americans than any
other city, though none of the States and
mainland territories was without its
American graves.
Australians could have wished that
those graves and those others in the
island territories had been placed in their
trust. They would have been cared for
to the end of time as time may run for
us—cared for as sacred symbols of a
great companionship and a great sacri-
fice. But it is not for us to cavil at a
decision which Americans alone could
make —it was a unanimous decision of
Congress—and the pious effecting of
which will bring so much assuagement of
grief to so many American homes in
which global separation was' felt as a too-
cruel part of the loss.
In their baffled rage at the course events
are taking, Moscow and its instruments
throughout the world accuse the Ameri-
cans ,of “dollar imperialism.” There
could be nothing less like “dollar im-
perialism” than the slow procession of
ships bearing the dead. Rather is it a
supreme example of the patriotic spirit,
mystically suggestive of
Those Nicean ships of yore
That gently o’er a perfumed sea
The weary way-worn traveller bore
To his own native shore.
Among America’s dead were men sprung
from all the peoples of Europe, and even
American-born Japanese. Among those
peoples of Europe, even those on whom
Oriental socialism has set its heel, there
are suffering millions who have close ties
.with Americans of their races, and who,
the Iron Curtain notwithstanding, must
have learned that America offers them
redemption in the spirit of Christian
charity, asking no more than that, with
the American aid freely furnished, they
will save themselves by their own patriotic
exertions. To the English nurse in the
hour of death “patriotism” was “not
enough.” But patriotism saved America
and Britain and put them in the way of
saving others; and ill fares the land
which hasn’t enough of it.
Behind on Points. '
It was the Chifley Government’s hope
that under relevant clauses of its Bank-
ing Act it could, by issuing notices over-
night, dismiss existing bank directors,
replace them with creatures of its own,
and so produce an accomplished fact.
When Mr, Menzies asked in Parlia-
ment for an undertaking that the Trea-
surer would not take such a mean course,
Mr. Dedman, speaking for his leader,
declined to give it. The game thus being
exposed, the banks’ counsel moved the
High Qpurt for an injunction restraining
the Government from such action. A
motion for injunction against the opera-
tion of an Act of Parliament before it
has become law was unprecedented ; but
there was no fight. The Government
counsel gave in Court what had been
refused in Parliament.
This was done in the form of an agree-
ment between parties to expedite the hear-
ing. But the assurance against issue of
notices' which “would set the field going”
(in Government counsel’s phrase) was a
mere four days.
When the injunction hearing came on
Dixon, J., made some caustic remarks on
the Crown affidavits, which, he said, re-
quired “some plastic surgery.” Failure
attended efforts by the Crown to get the
affidavits (hastily amended) submitted as
they were and sifted afterwards, his Honor
saying it was “much more important to
have a case decided rightly than to have
it decided soon.”
The parties were ordered to get the
material in shape, for proceedings in
Chambers on January 15. His Honor
further granted an injunction against any
Crown action until final decision by the
Full Court. The Commonwealth then
applied to the Full Court for a hearing
on January 19. With a mien as forbid-
ding as any onlooker remembered him
showing, Chief Justice Latham scarified
the attempt to rush the Court.
So much for the legal position as it
stands. But the pretence of great
urgency has a political aspect. This was
first maintained on the score of need for
a “weapon” against a depression, and
then on the plea that the banks’ assets
to be expropriated might, with delay, ap-
preciate in terms of changing currency
value and so cost the Commonwealth
much more than it would today.
The impudence of this plea must be
unmatched in Crown litigation. On the
simplest examination it would assume
that private owners to be despoiled
should have no right to object to being
so ’despoiled on terms' least costly to a
Government which had made a parade
of its readiness to pay full and liberal
compensation. A Government, more-
over, which decided on a banking
monopoly equivalent to that which exists
in the U.S.S.R., and which has been
manipulated so memorably this last
month —to the tune of an artificially-
stimulated run on the One Big Bank, fol-
lowed by a one-in-ten distribution of new
roubles for old—without any mandate
from the electors or ,|my warning what-
ever.
A Healthy Sign.
O’Brien (M.J.) is president and Nolan
(F.G.) secretary of the Queensland
branch of the A.R.U. The branch called
a one-day Government railway strike for
November 18, the excuse being the Com-
missioner’s refusal to give up his power
to fine railwaymen for breaches of disci-
pline (several were fined in 1946 for re-
fusing to handle freight declared “black”
by striking meatworkers). The Commis-
sioner appealed to the State Industrial
Court and the Court issued an order
against the strike. The branch ignored
the order.
At a strike-day meeting O’Brien moved
a resolution (carried) which condemned
“the partisan attitude of the Arbitration
Court... .a negation of justice,” ques-
tioned whether the Court “is as anxious
as it professes to be to preserve industrial
peace,” viewed “with disgust the delay
taking place in the hearing of our
claims” and noted “with disfavor the
speed with which the Court can act at
the behest of employers'.”
In the result O’Brien was charged with
contempt, Nolan with having instigated
“matters and things in the nature of a
strike” and O’Brien and Nolan with con-
travening an order of the Court.
At the hearing Judge Matthews had
frequently to prevent the defendants mak-
ing propaganda speeches to the crowd in
Court. O’Brien was fined £2O, with £2l
costs, for the contempt and £lO for the
contravention; Nolan, £lO for the con-
travention and £5 for his part in the
strike.
Very light fines for offences so serious.
All the same, it is refreshing to find a
Court ready to enforce industrial law
and a State Labor Government ready
to support it. A few such examples, with
heavier penalties, would do a power of
good in other parts.
in Other Dominions.
Two sister-Dominions are getting along
without recourse to “socialisation”
monkey-tricks and without imposing ob-
stacles to their trade with the United
States.
The South Africans are not rationed
in any foodstuffs or other consumer
goods. With a regular weekly shipping
service between Durban and U.S. ports,
they can—and do —buy all the American
cars, petrol, newsprint and nylon stock-
ings they want. They can even earn
enough abroad to put surplus dollars
into the British Empire pool, besides
letting Britain have a massive gold credit.
By contrast Australia, with its “Govern-
ment” the worst offender and example,
has been spending annually 100 million
dollars more than it earns.
During the war years' South Africa
added 8,000,000 tons to its coal produc-
tion, in the process developing a growing
export trade, and it has, of course, main-
tained a great goldmining industry, the
output of which will be increased by de-
velopments in the Orange Free State.
There has been no continuance after the
war, as in Australia, of the war-time tax
on gold production. Only at the end of
the Parliamentary session this year did
the Chifley Government “suspend” (not
cancel) its war-time “steal tax,” as Wes-
tralians called it, as a result of which and
of other war-time measures production
went to the bowwows.
Canada, for its part, has obtained ap-
proval from the International Monetary
Fund to subsidise gold-production costs,
partly in old mines, and entirely for the
first year in new mines, where these costs
exceed £5.3 an ounce. An excellent ex-
ample to the Chifley Government, but
that Government follows only bajd ex-
amples, British “Labor” and Russian
examples preferred.
The McGirrs.
Jim McGirr embarrassed Ben Chifley by
introducing his bill empowering the
N.S.W. Rural Bank to transact general
business, and Jim’s brother Paddy em-
barrassed Jim by coming out with a
slaughtering comment while the Upper
House was debating Jim’s bill:
During the depression years the Rural
Bank foreclosed on more homes and more
farms than all the other banks put to-
gether.
But Paddy didn’t try to slaughter the
measure, which was passed through all
stages without amendment.
The McGirrs are original and, in a
political sense, peculiar. Greg, brother to
Jim and Paddy, was N.S.W. Labor’s first
and only Minister of Motherhood and a
candidate for the Premiership, leading a
faction fight (carried right into an election
campaign) against Dooley. Losing the
faction fight, Greg led a party of his own
and, losing again, became an Ind. Lab.
Federal candidate in later years. A doc-
tor son of Greg was a Country-party
nominee against Clark in Darling last
year.
THEIR NATIVE ELEMENT.
“Mr. Chifley is spending part of his holidays at Rotorua.”
“It can’t possibly hurt me, Miss Hinemoa. Why, some of our fellows in Canberra simply wallow in it.”


■
GSS7
You can
always rely on
CRAVE NA
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR
5%
POLITICAL POINTS
Cosgrove did not lack dignity in his
dark hour. It having been given out that
Brooker would succeed him as Tasmanian
Premier, at least until the Cosgrove case
was decided, Dr, Turnbull, who has
ceased to attend Caucus meetings, served
telegraphed notice on Cosgrove that, in
the absence of “assurances,” he could
not “support Mr. Brooker” ; adding that
“you should advise the Governor that Mr.
Brooker no longer has a majority.” Cos-
grove replied, in substance, that he would
not interfere with “the decisions of his
Excellency” or those of “the House of
Assembly.” With that he issued a manly
address to the people: “There is nothing
more for me to say except that I have not
yet been heard in my own defence; I
am certain that my innocence will be
fully established.” Returned servicemen
have a kindness for him, remembering
that he lost an airman son early in the
German war.
Newspapermen, motor-trades men and
others threatened with the sack because
of “Labor’s” dollar cuts were astonished
to read that John Wren had offered an
American negro the equivalent of £7OOO
in dollars (the coon demands a lot more
and may get it) for a bruising match in
Australia. It was explained that Wren
could finance the projected mill out of
his “American reserve.” Wren is, of
course, a Friend of “Labor,” and to
Friends of “Labor” —or some Friends of
“Labor” —dollar cuts don’t seem to mean
a thing.
Lang, who asks pertinent questions and
refuses to be fobbed off with evasions,
drew from Chifley the information that
in 1946-47 Chifley’s Government paid
the American Morgan, Stanley firm
$2,501,250 for underwriting New York
conversion loans. Two million five hun-
dred thousand dollars for one set of
“refinancing operations,” as Chifley calls
them! No wonder “Labor” has a thump-
ing dollar deficit, the burden of. which
is falling on the Australian people and
particularly on the industries! and em-
ployees immediately affected. “Where,”
asked Lang, “is Chifley’s consistency?”
Consistency is not in him, and he is stub-
born only in the wrong.
The election of Sydney’s Chief Citizen
was even more ludicrous than usual. Two
Civic Reform aldermen whirled them-
selves out of the hurlyburly. A third,
after nominating the only Lang “Labor”
alderman, cast an informal vote, leaving
his protege to vote for himself. Official
“Labor,” shattering a “Labor” tradition,
voted for the retiring Lord Mayor,
Bartley, and he was re-elected. Now
there is talk of resignations apd expul-
sions from “Civic Reform.” The name
“alderman” indicates maturity and sense
of responsibility, but schoolboys would
scorn to put on such a show.
Alderman Carroll, leader of Sydney’s
“Civic ‘Labor’ party,” has been at pains
to deny that “we accepted £5OO and more
to vote for Alderman Bartley” as Lord
Mayor. There was no offer of money,
but “Alderman Bartley promised us for
our support the chairmanship of the
works committee and the markets com-
mittee and his personal support for
another proposition we put to him” ; and
so delivery of the “Labor” vote was
secured. “Labor” and its friends and
patrons are nothing if not highminded.
Under threat of being wiped out by
the McGirr-O’Sullivan-Hartigan N.S.W.
Government railway regime, which
crawls to the Reds and Pinks of , the
A.R.U., the Railway Operating Em-
ployees Union, formed in 1939 “to com-
bat Communist control of railway
unions,” is challenging the outlawry ukase
in the Courts. Its secretary, Kilminster,
says “the A.R.U., despite denials, is still
controlled by Communists'.” Certainly the
terms in which the A.R.U. called off its
Christmas overtime strike —freely trans-
lated, “give us what we demand, or else”
—reveal the combination of bushranging
and blackmailing which is typically Com-
munist.
“The loafer is ruining Australia,” said
the Chief Justice of the High Court at an
accountants’ dinner in Melbourne:
Unless all citizens are prepared to co-
operate in public matters, and each section
does its work well and thoroughly in its
own sphere, democracy will not survive.
John Greig Latham could not, in his posi-
tion, speak as plainly as Churchill did
recently in Manchester, though his warn-
ing was not dissimilar. Said the old war-
dog :
Socialism will make it impossible for 48
million people to live in this islapd. At
least one quarter of all who are alive to-
day will have to disappear in one way or
another, after enduring a lowering of stand-
ards of food and comfort inconceivable in
the last fifty years.
Abolition of the death penalty in Vic-
toria except for murder and treason is
being considered by Attorney-General
Oldham. Under the present law Judges
must don the black cap whenever a
person is convicted of administering
poison, wounding with intent to murder,
setting fire to a ship with intent to murder,
setting fire to a house in which there are
inmates, robbery and burglary with
wounding, and certain sexual crimes.
Actually in the last 47 years the death
penalty has been pronounced in 52 such
cases, but carried out on only two
occasions.
Very belatedly the Archbishop of
Canterbury has disowned the rabid Com-
munism of hi§ Red Dean. That vain
and foolish old man has been touring
the Balkans and is back in his deanery
full of admiration for Dmitrov the Bul-
gar and for “the splendid cultural life”
of Tito’s Yugoslavia. It seems nothing
to the Very Rev. Hewlett Johnson that
Tito and Dmitrov have bumped off
political enemies wholesale, notably
Mihailovich and Petkov, in savage
atheistic infraction of the Sixth Com-
mandment.
Commonwealth, State and “semi-
Government” employees continue to in-
crease at the rate of 2000 a month. At
the end of October they numbered
571,000, just on one-fourth of the total
in civil employment; and “nationalisa-
tion” of banking and medicine in 1948-
49, with the effect of the “Labor” import
cuts on jobs in the motor trades, print-
ing houses and the rest, could make the
proportion one-third. Meanwhile taxes
are kept sky-high (and, as Fadden points
out, the income-tax yield is increasing all
the time) so that useless jobs may accu-
mulate against the day when the job-
holders will be bidden to vote for
“Labor” and against “ ‘Tory’ retrench-
ment,”
Definitions by L. Withall, of the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures:
Hard currencies are the strong currencies
of countries which don’t have Socialist
Governments. Soft currencies are the
bureaucratic-controlled currencies of coun-
tries under Socialist Governments.
A most sarcastic person, Mr. Withall.
All the world, Australia along with
the other victorious democracies, is striv-
ing to acquire dollars in order to in-
crease productive effort and so restore
exchange trade. But' why not increase
productive effort today, with the means
that exist? Is' production under a 40-
hour week going to lift itself, are strikes
in sabotage of transport and essential in-
dustries going to fade out, if only
American capitalists will consent to tide
our socialised economy over some
temporary socialist disinclination to
work?
“S. M. Herald” has printed a sort
of uplift story about “hundreds of volun-
teers” in Britain responding to the Cripps
appeal to them to unload railway wagons
at week-ends. The truth was expressed
by an American Congressman in Eng-
land, as recorded in the “Spectator”: —
He asked in a friendly way, “You’re
suffering from a shortage of railway trucks,
aren’t you?” “Yes.”, “Trucks aren’t un-
loaded at week-ends under the five-day
week in this country, are they?” “No.” •
“If you did unload at week-ends it would
mean the equivalent of 50,000 extra trucks.
We unload at week-ends in America.”
He implied, but did not add—“ Hell, if
you won’t help yourselves why should we
help you?”
That is just as true of Australia, with
the addition that seamen, wharfies, rail-
waymen and other unionists controlled
by militant extremists put absurd limita-
tions on output even during a five-day
week, and demand exorbitant overtime
pay or ban overtime altogether.
During Victoria’s “Labor” regime, that
cheeky Communist Brown, the A.R.U.
secretary, was a privileged visitor to
Transport Minister Stoneham, a former
railway clerk. They were Clive and Jack
to one another, a§d the Minister’s office
was closed to newspapermen when
Brown was there. It was open to them
last week when Brown called on Stone-
ham’s Liberal successor, Kent Hughes,
The fellow affected to be still the Big
Boss, but was promptly put in his place,
The Brown tail could be almost seen
drooping.
It’s all very fine for young 1948 to be
out there impatiently waiting to arrive,
but what is he going to do for a house
or flat when he gets here?
Pollard triumphantly announced that
Britain had bought 80,000,000 bushels of
his wheat at 17s. and India 25,000,000
at 18s. 6d. Britons and Indians could
be excused if they asked why they
couldn’t have it at “Labor’s” price to
New Zealand, ss. 9d., but they’re far too
polite to do it. British “Labpr” indeed
seems to be grateful for a “concession”
of Is. a bushel. And Britain has to
provide the ships and will send a lot
of the wheat to countries for whose wheat
supplies it has accepted responsibility.
Meantime, rainy weather has continued
to “afflict the harvest, pulling down the
earher estimates of 220,000,000 bushels
and causing headaches about disposal of
shot and bleached gram.
Very careful in his references to coal,
Hanlon made it clear why he wouldn’t
have the Joint Coal Board in his State :
J o| at control of coal on a Common-
Wealth-States basis is, in principle, a de-
sirable scheme. However, the conditions
on which that control was to have operated
in the Blair Athol undertaking would have
been highly detrimental to Queensland and
the future of the State’s industrial develop-
ment
In other words, to let the Commu-
nists of the Miners’ Federation have a
say in the Blair Athol job would have
scared off the English concern which is
to work the show, and spend upwards of
£18,000,000 in the process.
* tt ii , uu ~ • .
A Hollway Government bill was intro-
duced with such speed amazing to t
St Court
Justice Gavan Duffy had ruled that
Wages Boards had no legal power to
fix retrospective rates of pay. The
anomaly was removed by amending two
sections of the Factories and Shops Act.
The McGirrs still in Mac q uarie p street,
Sydney, Premier Jim and Paddy,
M.L.C., are not exactly authorities on
the Commonwealth Constitution, what-
ever other distinctions they _ aim.
Jims idea is that the Constitution was
the work of Edmund Barton and that
Barton so framed it that the Common-
wealth Parliament might “nationalise”
the trading banks at any time—there is
not a shred of evidence that Barton or
any of his associates ever contemplated
that possibility. Paddy’s pet notion is
that the N.S.W. Rural Bank should
“make its own note issue,” visualising the
institution as “great” with a note issue ;
“like a flea on an elephant” without
one. Constitutional section 115 says “A
State shall not coin money nor make
anything but gold and silver coin a legal
tender.” And since June, 1911, when the
penal clauses of the Australian Notes
Act came into operation, issue of State
or private bank or Treasury notes (till
then circulated in Queensland) has been
fnrhiHrlen
Insatiable is the appetite for 1.L.0.
conferences. Canberra has been notified
~ . • . , „
that the next of the litter is to be on ex-
hlbition not in a sterling area but m San
Francisco, next'to New York the most
expensive city on earth. Presumably
that will mean anothlr huge consumption
0 f dollars by the “Labor” politicians,
union bosses and the rest who swarm to
these swarries. Though industry apd
commerce have to go short of dollars,
the new privileged aristocracy never
does.
’ . .. T , _, T . ,
Chalmers, the new Labor MX A. for
Hartley successoi to ex-Mimster
Knight, ex-Premier Dooley and original
party-member Cook, who became P.M.
—was in the Commonwealth Em-
ployment Service at Lithgow. Lithgow
is a place where only the very sick or
very old are jobless, and so it is in hun-
dreds of other places. But branches of
the Commonwealth Employmept Ser-
vice, using up building space and
materials which could be put to produc-
tive use, and if not so required could give
shelter to the houseless, are maintained
in every one.
A reporter from “N. Q. Register” got
up on the Atherton Tableland and ad-
jacent parts and found the farmers grow-
ing peanuts on 6000 acres, six times the
1946 area under crop, having “become
peanut-minded.” It should be under-
stood that this is different from having
peanut-minds, an affliction common on
the Canberra tablelands and adjacent
parts.
Amidst all the rejoicing about the
opening of the Blair A thol coal deposits
som ebody in Queensland remembered
that vast quantities of coal would have
been com i ng out during the last quarter-
century if the Theodore “Government”
hadn > t re j e cted a company offer, giv-
ing the excuse that “Labor” didn’t want
pr i V ately-owned railway lines. In one
way and ano ther Theodore, who added
American loans to a swarm of socialistic
enterprises that went bung, was the most
expensive luxury Queensland ever had.
xhe out i n Sydney about the
... c , , . \ , i am „ nrar iu,
middle of last week and temporarily
freed the city from its recurrent Bun-
nerong blackouts. There is to be an-
nthpr “inmiirv” into the freauent stOD-
-other inditv”
pages at the Bunnerong public utility,
and while they’re at it the inquirers
should consider the numbei ot emp oyee
and what they do for then money. Any-
one who has seen electricity-generating
stations in other Australian cities and in
Pantry towns and noted the effective
mb being done by a handful of workers
them g must wo y nder at the dime nsions
f tbe horde at “Blackout” Bunnerong,
with mtle to do ate apt to be ripe
lor ml ® cme * , < tr .
A New York paper, the Dai y
Mutot,says the Americans can t make
>t out why the Biitish spent
thira of their :h eame
“tM “ear 697°W0 British
miners pr dduced 189,000,000 tons of coal
wbde 494 000 American, miners produced
tons.” If their free-enterprise
country ever surren ders to the stupid and
deadly materialism called Labor-social-
. ! ...
lsm they Wlll understand,
Many Queensland unionists are grow-
ing tired of being the mugs. A two-hour
stop-work meeting was called to protest
against the Industrial Court proceedings
against O’Brien and Nolan, of the.A.R.U.,
and the clauses which admitted of Llieir
being punished for their strike against the
community. The response of unionists
was far from unanimous. Meantime,
Maryborough Trades and Labor Council
“broke away” from the Brisbane X and
L.C. and Bundaberg is likely to do the
same.


=mro
*s
9
aPENTIIRY nf
gooetwiwf
PERSONAL ITEMS
Unlike most comedians, George
Formby is able to drop the mask of the
professional entertainer off stage. At a
Melbourne reception he was credited by
the Lud Mayor with being the last Eng-
lishman to leave Dunkirk. George denied
it, but added that as he was walking along
a road towards the seaport with six British
soldiers he saw a sight which he never
expected to see again in this world. In a
near-by pasture a cow was standing, long
overdue for milking, and obviously in
intense pain. Though hotly pursued by
the Germans the six soldiers jumped the
hedge. Two of them grabbed the suffer-
ing creature’s fore legs, two more grabbed
its hind legs, a fifth passed under its udder
a succession of army jam-tins and the
sixth milked it. Strawberry’s agony re-
lieved, the six Good Samaritans continued
their flight with Formby following, mar-
velling at the wonders of human nature.
Colonel John C, D. Litchfield, one
of the Australians to be awarded
the American Medal of Freedom with
Bronze Palm, was first mentioned in dis-
patches in World War I, and in the latest
war collected two ms.i.d., with malaria,
scrub typhus and incidentals, in New
Guinea. There, he was A.A. and Q.M.G.
in Milne Force, being responsible for all
administration and supply of that force,
which consisted of Australian and Ameri-
can troops, combat and service. Tribute
from the late General Frank L. Burns,
who was American “Colonel, Infantry,
Commanding,” written in Sydney:
By most superior organisational abilities
Colonel Litchfield developed such a system
of administration and supply that at all
times all units, both Australian and Ameri-
can, were in constant communication and
control and were adequately supplied and
fed. The development and maintenance of
an administrative and supply service for
this new force composed of diverse units
of two armies was accorriplished in tropical
jungle terrain and weather, under threat of
an immediate amphibious assault —repelled
—and under frequent aerial bombardment.
At no time during this period was there
any failure of function by the administrative
and supply service, or any interruption of
the constant flow and distribution of needed
supplies. The success of Milne Force in
defeating a major enemy amphibious attack
and in establishing Milne Bay as a base for
future progressive action was directly de-
pendent upon the excellent organisation.',
under these most difficult conditions by
Colonel Litchfield.
- Nowadays Colonel Litchfield devotes his
organising abilities to his business —where
all male employees are ex-servicemen—
and to his job as chairman of the R.S.L.
Business Advisory Panel.
Who’s Who describes Sir Bernard Spils-
bury, found dead last week in his Lon-
don laboratory, as Hon. Government
Pathologist, Home Office; Lecturer in
Forensic Medicine, University College
Hospital, London School of Medicine for
Women and St. Thomas’s Hospital, The
first of these modest titles is the official
label of the man whose acute powers of
perception and deduction brought more
real-life murderers to book than most
of the famous detectives of fiction. Vic-
toria’s Police Commissioner Duncan, him-
self an old Scotland Yard man, described
Spilsbury as “one of the greatest crimin-
ologists—if not the greatest—of the age.”
His first famous case was that of wife-
murderer Crippen in 1910, and not long
afterwards he broke through the defence
of Seddon the poisoner and George Smith,
of “brides-in-the-bath” infamy. From
then to the time of his death he was con-
sulted in dozens of murder cases ; his
colleagues maintain that much of his
most brilliant work was seen in trials
that were without sensation and conse-
quently attracted little public notice.
Dead in Melbourne at 93, Frederick
Williams Heath was the doyen of Vic-
torian jewellers. In 1892 he bought
Gaunt’s in the Block, which had kept Mel-
bourne’s time from the days of Batman,
under the sign of Gog and Magog.
For 50 years he was honorary timekeeper
to the V.R.C., V.A.T.C. and Williams-
town R.C. and supplied chronometers to
racecourses in India, S. Africa and Aus-
tralia. He was also chairman of directors
of the old book firm of Robertson and
Mullens, and, disdaining lifts, climbed
the stairs to board meetings when he was
in his nineties. Heath was Plymouth-
born and came to Australia as a boy of
11.
Group-Captain F. Headlam, R.A.A.F.
Director of Training, just back from
R.A.F. staff college, is one of the young
airmen who pulled their* weight with the
Empire Air Training Scheme in between
tours of operations. Back in April, 1941,
he commanded the now-famous No. 2
Lockheed Hudson squadron, which with
the equally-famous No. 13 took the first
sting of the Japanese attack on Darwin
early in 1942. He led these squadrons
in attacks on Timor. Realising his worth
as a leader of an instructional establish-
ment, Air Board brought him back to
command No. 3 Air Observers’ School.
F. R. Burton, chief executive officer of
the N.S.W. division of the Liberal party,
who has been appointed secretary of
Melbourne’s Lord Mayor’s Fund, will
handle millions if he stays long enough
at it. His predecessor, Glanville Hicks,
during his 25 years of office succeeded
entirely by persuasion in dredging
£2,500,000 out of the community’s
pockets. The new incumbent entered the
A.I.F. in 1940 as a captain and emerged
as a brigadier, with a couple of “men-
tions” for his Middle East service. Re-
called to Australia in 1942, he became
Deputy Adjutant-General. For 20 years
he was with Robert Best in a legal
practice.
When Low drew this sketch Crawford
Vaughan, dead in Sydney last week at 7.3,
was South Australian Treasurer in John
Verran’s Ministry.' That was in 1912.
Even then it was said that there was
no milder - mannered or quieter - spoken
man in politics, and those qualities re-
mained with him to the end. Not long
after Low sketched him Vaughan suc-
ceeded Verran as party and Opposition
leader, an election having put Labor
on the other side of the House. In 1915
he turned the tables on A. H. Peake and
became Premier of S.A., but two years
later he came out for Conscription and
went into the wilderness reserved for
Labor men who supported compulsory
service. Early in his career Vaughan ran
an Adelaide satirical paper, “Quiz,” and
was secretary of the Single Tax League.
Always a good platform man, he made
effective war speeches in the T .S.A. and
Britain, returning as managing director
CRAWFORD VAUGHAN,
as Low saw him.
of an Australian cotton-growing project.
His second wife, Miss Preston Stanley,
was a politician in her own right: first
woman member of the N.S.W. Assembly.
She nursed him tenderly through his last
illness.
Maoriland’s Rhodes Scholars for 1948
hail from Canterbury and Auckland col-
leges. W. P. Packard, 22, ex-pupil of
Christchurch 8.H.5., gained his M.A. at
Canterbury last year. At Oxford he will
undertake special work in plant geo-
graphy, specialising in soil conservation
and management in high country. L. C.
Woods, 24, took his M.Sc. at Auckland
Uni. College ; he put in a couple of years
in the R.N.Z.A.F. At Oxford he will
study for a Doctorate of Philosophy in
engineering science.
The swotting brow here depicted by
Mcßeath belongs to 25-year-old Flying-
Officer R. R. Shaw, Victoria’s Rhodes
Scholar for 1948- and the first engineer
for 20 years to be selected to go to
Oxford’s academic cloisters. Born in
Melbourne, he matriculated at Scotch
College before going on to the Univer-
VICTORIAN RHODES SCHOLAR.
sity to get his B.Mech.E. Interested in
the mechanical side of aviation, he joined
the R.A.A.F. and at present is attached
to the Research and Development unit
located at Point Cook. He has already
had one trip to England to study advances
in jet propulsion. On the athletic side
he is a tennis player and an oarsman,
having rowed No. 1 seat in the Ormond
crew. His wife —they have one child —
is another University product rand can
boast of an Arts degree.
Farewell to a trainer of teachers:
Armidale (N.S.W.) Teachers’ College, look-
ing forward to the early attainment of its
majority, has lost the man who, as principal,
presided at its birth pangs, soothed its child-
hood troubles and watched affectionately its
youthful triumphs, Cecil Bede Newling
retired tiffs month. The impressive building,
looking down on Armidale with all its
other schools, its cathedrals and churches,
from the site of the old jail, is his monument.
It was he who battled for it —patient in his
explanations to the architect that it was a
new college he needed, not a remodelled jail-
while he lectured the college’s first students in
a small wooden shack. It is his ideal of
service in education that has been carried into
N.S.W. schools by the more than 2000 teachers
whose training he has supervised. Every smallest
item in the life of the college, every change
in its layout or in the layout of its gardens,
has been C.B.N.’s care. The form of remem-
brance of the 66 students and ex-students who
gave their lives in the war originated with him.
When appointed he asked that he be left at
Armidale to the end of his teaching career; no
more promotions. The college was to be his con-
tribution to education in N.S.W. Born at Pyr-
mont, Sydney, he left school at 14 to take a job
with a solicitor. A year or so later he became
a pupil teacher, but it was not until 1904 that he
went to the Teachers’ College at Fort-street.
Many years teaching in country schools fol-
lowed before he got back to Sydney to take
an evening course at the University. Newling
was 35 then. In 1923 he took his B.A. and
the University Medal in History; in 1925 his
M.A. with First-class Honors. Before going
to Armidale he was Inspector of Schools at
Broken Hill, at Yass and in the Canberra
district. At Armidale he has had the care
of the Howard Hinton Art Collection, which
is the College’s proudest possessioil. For his
“retirement” he plans, together with work for
W.E.A., an exhaustive catalogue of the pictures
and a biography of Hinton. The new principal
is Dr. G. W. Bassett, M.A., D.Ph.
W.A. University loses an old friend
with the retirement of George Edward
Nifcholls, its professor of biology for more
than a quarter of a century. A Cambridge
man, he had had charge of a research
laboratory at Mentone in France and had
occupied the chair of biology at Agra
College, India, when he came to Aus-
tralia for the 1914 conference of the
British Association for the Advancement
of Science. Nicholls liked what he saw of
this country, and when W.A. University
offered him a post he was glad to come
back ; he has been part of the institution
since 1921. He is an original member of
the QS.I.R., a trustee of the Fairbridge
Farms —chairman for years —and fellow-
scientists know him as the man who
found in Tasmania living specimens of
Phreatoicoidea —a shrimp thought to
have been extinct millions of years. Pro-
fessor Nicholls’s successor will be Dr.
Horace Waring of Birmingham; the
name of the chair will be changed to
Zoology.
His friends about Sydney will miss the
tall' friendly figure of Charles Vickers
Potts, who died, aged 74, on Dec. 16,
for he was the most companionable of
men. A Tynesider, be was for many
years in steel and managed B.H.P.’s
Sydney office. When he retired he devoted
himself to the affairs of the Royal Empire
Society, of which he was a vice-president,
and to many other good causes. He was
a past president of the N.S.W. Chamber
of Manufactures.
Like the grandfather clock “when the
old man died,” Launceston Post Office
time-piece went all haywire the other
day when Frank Simpson, after attending
to its daily needs for 38 years, retired.
For days it would strike, but wouldn’t
chime. When adjusted it chimed with no
strike. Launceston expects it to recover
from its grief by Christmas.
Still banging his hammer, Kerang’s
82-year-old Robert Leng, probably Aus-
tralia’s oldest auctioneer, had his licence
renewed last week* He took it out in
1906 and has missed only two stock sales
since. Known to all northern Victorian
cockies, he’s almost as active as ever.
Sergeant J. H. Gordon, V.C., of Gin
Gin (W.A.), back in the Army again at
38, was the third A.I.F. man to win the
Cross in World War 11. He was awarded
it for a feat which displayed “a rare
degree of courage and equal gallantry”
during the Syrian campaign, when his
company’s advance on Djezzine, 40 miles
from Damascus, was held up by machine-
gun fire. Gordon went forward alone
under heavy fire, charged a strongpost,
bayoneted four machine-gunners and
secured the company’s 1 advance. Jim
nearly got a bar to the cross in New
Guinea. In joining the permanent Army
early this month he said he had always
liked Army life and was prepared to give
it another go.
A newspaper headline described Sir
Frederick Young, chairman of E., S. & A.
Bank, as “an English banker.” It’s a
misnomer. Young was born at Mount
Templeton in South Australia’s mid-
north 7.1 years ago, and although he has
lived in London for many years he has
never lost his interest in Australian affairs
and has paid several visits to the land of
his birth. He was called to the Adelaide
Bar at the beginning of the century and
sat in the S.A. Assembly from 1902 to
1915, was Commissioner for Crown
Lands for a term and became S.A. Agent-
General in London in 1915, resigning to
become Swindon’s M.P. in the Com-
mons for four years.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 75, Frank McClennan
Mitchell, of B.H.P. for 53 years, 21 is secretary
and the last few years as a director. He was
also a director of Australian Iron and Steel
and Ryland Brothers.
In Melbourne, Dr. Arthur Mitchell Wilson,
one of Australia’s leading gynaecologists. He
gained the D.S.O. in World War I for dis-
tinguished service in evacuating wounded from
French battlefields.
At Swan View (W.A.), at 82, Canon A.
Burton, Anglican clergyman and church his-
torian. Born in Adelaide, he was ordained in
Perth 52 years ago and was rector at Esperance,
Norseman, Southern Cross and in several metro-
politan parishes.
In Melbourne, at 88, Charles Daley, educa-
tionist, naturalist and historian. He had been
president of the Field Naturalists Club, the
Shakspeare Society and the Historical Society
and published biographies of Baron von
Mueller and John Quick and a history of
Cobb and Co. coaching days.
At Sydney, E. J. (Ted) Long, of the AIT.
and its cricket team. He kept wickets, but with-
drew in favor of W. A. Oldfield. Ted was a
member of the North Sydney club for many
years.
At 61, in Melbourne, Leslie Bnmning, author
of that standby of the home horticulturist
The Australian Gardener,, and a member of a
famous family of Victorian nurserymen.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: Hot on the heels of Drakeford’s
capitulation to Ansett Airways and the
consequent air-fare warfare comes the
proposal to introduce the class-system,
into air travel. This should inspire
T.-A.A. to go even better than the various
bankrupt Government-owned railways in
their discrimination between grades of
paying passengers. As it would be un-
thinkable to allow 2nd-class passengers
to use the same conditioned air as Ist-
class passengers would enjoy the pres-
surised cabin would have to go; so
as protection against the cold at high alti-
tudes hot-water bottles for Ist-classers
would be tepid and those of the lower
class stone-cold. Replacement of sponge-
rubber seats by corn-producing hardwood
ones would be in the best traditions of
Government-transport “enterprises.” As
in the railways, too, windows for Ist-class
passengers wouldn’t open and those for
the 2nd-class people wouldn’t shut. The
equivalent of half a pound of soft coal-
grit per square foot of space could surely
be arranged for 2nd-class passengers near
the engine—or- engines—by having ex-
haust fumes or carbonised oil blown over
them. What with these and other
amenities and the greater carrying of
Government deadheads —all travelling
super-class, naturally—why, dammit,
T.-A.A. might even keep next year’s loss
down to within a million and a half!
* * * *
“Serjeant Buzfuz”:
The Privy Council decision in the Hocking-
Bell case brings to an end litigation that has
broken British Empire records for length of
time before the Courts. The story begins in
1938, when Mrs. Stella Hocking, of Quirindi
"No thanks — I'd rather roll my own.”
(N.S.W.), was operated on by a Sydney surgeon,
Dr. George Bell, for thyroid trouble. In Janu-
ary, 1941, the patient sued the doctor for £5OOO
damages, claiming that a drain-tube, swab and
piece of wire had been left in her neck, had
18 months later “erupted through her tonsil
and passed through her body.” At the first
bearing of the case before Mr. Justice Street
and a jury evidence was adduced that this was
impossible, but on a jury verdict plaintiff was
awarded £5OO damages. Dr. Bell appealed on
three grounds: (i) verdict against the weight
of evidence, (ii) Judge should have directed the
jury to bring in a verdict for defendant, (hi)
conduct of plaintiff’s case had been improper
and prejudicial to a fair trial. The Full Court
ordered a retrial. Actually there were three;
in the first two the juries disagreed, and in the
last, held in 1943 and lasting 36 days, Mrs.
Hocking received the verdict, for £BOO. Then
the appeals began again. Dr. Bell to the Full
Court; verdict quashed. Mrs. Hocking to the
High Court; appeal disallowed by three-to-two
majority. Mrs. Hocking to the Privy Council;
decision now given for Mrs. Hocking for £BOO,
with costs under “poor people’s jurisdiction”
and taxed costs for the previous actions. Costs
in the case are alleged to be somewhere near
£70,000. Plaintiff’s counsel has stated that he
does not intend to accept any fees as he regards
the case as one “of vital concern to our juridical
system. The effect of the Privy Council’s
decision is that a jury verdict cannot be dis-
turbed except on long-established principles.”
The medical profession probably also considered
the case involved vital principles, and it is un-
likely that Dr. Bell will be called upon to bear
all his costs. Seventy thousand pounds is a
whacking big expense bill to run up over a
matter of £800; principles can be very costly.
But, as a learned Judge once remarked, “Cheap
justice is bad justice.”
* * * *
“D.A.”; It was pre-Christmas play-
night for a Sydney North Shore infant
girls’ school. The hall was full of proud
parents and guests; and the girls, all
under nine, were putting on a valiant
show. The play was about a princess
who was ill, and the court physician had
decided that the only way back to health
lay in the granting of her fondest wish.
The king asked her what her wish was:
it would be satisfied even at the cost of
half his kingdom. “A fairy cake —and
the moon,” was her reply. The royal
chamberlain was summoned; but that
dignitary confessed his helplessness. Im-
patient, the king commanded: “Send for
the royal wizard.” At this juncture a
loud voice from the audience (not that of
a proud parent) burst in with “Send for
Chifley!”
* * * *
“Bethune”: Competition in the circu-
lation departments of Sydney’s rival after-
noon papers has spread to other depart-
ments. One day last week the “Sun”
poster announced “10 Injured in Tram
Smash.” The “Mirror” countered with
“11 Injured in Tram Smash.” Both
papers made the story front-page news
and gave the number injured as 12. With
the score even, the “Sun” added to the
tale two men hurt'in a motor-car col-
lision on the opposite side of the harbor,
giving the headline “14 Injured During
City’s Blinding Deluge,” and for good
measure threw in a cocker-spaniel killed
in the car accident. Still, the final vic-
tory was not with either paper. Next
morning’s “Herald” and “Telegraph”
versions of the tram accident agreed on
a casualty list of 13 passengers and the
driver, who was the only one requiring
hospital treatment.
* * * *
“Macnell” recalls a great victory:
Early next month Rear-Admiral H. B. Farn-
comb will muster every available ship of his
squadron and take them south to Hobart for
the first post-war full-scale Fleet Regatta.
Memory stirs: it was in Alexandria, just before
the war, when H.M.A.S. Australia challenged
and beat the boats of a Fleet comprising 90
battleships, aircraft-carriers, cruisers and de-
stroyers. Ours was the last race —the Young
Seamen’s Whaler. The long-boats, each with
its crew of five and anxious-faced cox in the
stern, and tin flags bearing each ship’s number
in the bows (ours carried a tin kangaroo)
were herded into position. A tense silence
closed down on spectators crowding motor-
boats behind the starter; it deepened as the
line straightened, and the boats waited the signal
with oars poised in readiness. “Stand by!”
croaked a tired voice. Then “Bang!” and we
were off. A wild pandemonium and the boats
sprang forward like things alive. In their
churning wakes followed the crowded motor-
boats.
For perhaps two minutes the racing boats
travelled as if drawn by invisible threads of
equal length, but half a mile down the course
there were only four boats in it. We led by
a yard, with a rival on each side pulling
stroke for stroke. Our cox urged us on.
got ’em,” he said. “You’ve got ’em
“A sudden jerk, doctor? Bui mightn't that
break the mainspring?"
cold. Steady does it! Quicker a fraction,
stroke. Stick it, bow, stick it, lad!” We had
increased our lead to half a length; cruiser
London’s crew held us neck and neck. Then
cox cleared his dry throat and spoke with the
tongues of men and fallen angels. He coaxed
and adjured and abused us, stroke by stroke,
towards our goal. Our breath was coming in
sobs. The roar of voices on both sides of the
course surged in our ears. Astern of us was
our motor-boat, with the Commander bellow-
ing incoherencies through a microphone. Then
the cox chose the psychological moment.
“Stand by!” he croaked. “Now, all together
—SPURT!” We responded with the last
ounce; but the boat was leaden those last few
yards. Suddenly, far above our heads, a rifle
cracked, then another. We collapsed as if shot.
After a while stroke asked “Us or them?”
The motor-boat answered him. Full of cheer-
ing, clapping messmates, she slid alongside to
take the painter. Half an hour later up Aus-
tralia’s foremast, 150 feet in the air for all
Egypt to see, squatted a 12ft.-high tin kangaroo.
* * * »
“Hep-2-3-4”: Ip the changing army
observed by “Plop” (B, 26/11/ ’47) I
hope they have not amended the
pleasantness of Christmas Day in a train-
ing camp. A rough idea of the set-up
can be had from a notice which appeared
on the order-board of one N.S.W. out-
fit: —
Any man found not spinebashing or ■
not otherwise ungainfully employed between
lights-out on the 24th and reveille on the
26th will have his choice of being shot or
made a lance-corporal.
The only recognisable parade on Christ-
mas Day followed the lunch-time mess-
call, when new recruits gasped at the
sight of officers, the Head Serang
included, serving them their tucker and
contriving to smile as they did it; the
food itself was unbelievable, poultry, ham
and pudding with all the trimmings being
provided by unit funds and treated with
reverence by the babs; five-gallon kegs
lay at the far end of the mess-hut in
glorious profusion. So it went on. Box-
ing Day? An imperative reveille at
0600, tepid tinned bacon and spuds for
breakfast and a charge-sheet for any man
late on the morning parade.
* * * *
“Zake”: A Goulburn (N.S.W.) man
who, displaying no little moral fibre in
entering it, was runner-up in a Lovely
Legs competition after winning his heat
against several girls has furthered that
debunking of the feminine leg that gained
such impetus when, rashly, the sex dis-
carded stockings. As a keen observer
of long standing on beaches, at tram-
stops and other strategic places, I would,
were a competition held for the hairiest
and knobbliest pins, debar women from
entering, otherwise men wouldn’t stand
a chance.
* * * *
“X-Gun”: As one who was there, 1 was
pleased to see mention of the Australian
pilgrimage to Gallipoli in 1935, when
ships’ companies of Australia and Sydney
visited the hallowed battlefields. But tell
“Macnell” that the “Old Man” could not
time his passing of Anzac Cove for sun-
set. We had anchored during our twcJ-
day visit off Kilia Liman, which is in the
Dardanelles, on the objective side and not
the landing side of the Peninsula. The
scene that impressed us all strongly as
we left the. mouth of the Dardanelles at
sundown was Cape Helles, with the tall
British monument standing out like a
sentinel, against the fading day. All
hands stood watching it out of sight and
agreed with the poet that “Every heart
with pride must leap, To hear the name,
Gallipoli.”
♦ * ♦ *
“B. A. Ker”: Those pint-sized sergeants
in the senior cadets (B. 26 /11 / ’47)! We
of B Company watched one consistently
tormenting the rank and file of H.Q.
Company. Even “language” in the huts
became a crime, and when
a W.O. told him not to
hear certain things he
complained about the
W.O. On the last night
of camp retribution came.
One victim decided to pay
off the score. The youth-
ful tyrant bolted through
a hut; before he’d reached
the other end a dozen
more had joined in pursuit,
although they had no idea
whom they were chasing or
why. Every hut charged
through added to the total
until half a battalion were
whooping in the thrill of
the chase. Doubling back
and twisting, the quarry
finished near the starting
point, where his original
attacker got close enough
to hang a beautiful shiner
on his left eye. By that
time the pursuers had
caught up. Somebody on
the outskirts, evidently
feeling that he was out of
the fun, hit somebody else.
Within 30 seconds every
head in sight was being
punched with glorious im-
partiality and lack of bias.
The end came when a
heavyweight captain rushed
in and punched four heads in rapid suc-
cession. Next day my mate, who had
never even spoken to the pint-sized ser-
geant or seen him at close quarters, had
a sore ear and a whole lot of respect for
that captain.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: Pope’s lines, “Some to the
church repair, not for the doctrine, but
the music there,” applied with force to
the audiences that rolled up in their
thousands to the Brahms Festival at St.
Paul’s, Melbourne. Another quotation
I have forgotten refers to the power of
music to bring the sects together. The
final Requiem, written by a Catholic
composer, given in an Anglican cathedral
by the beneficence of a Jew, had for
principal soloist a Jewish cantor.
♦ * * *
“Waddlin’ Willie”: Melbourne’s
Treasury Gardens will soon have a touch
of old England that will appeal to kids
and grown-ups, Edgar Wilson, a
pensioner of Lambeth, England, has
made a model in cement of a Tudor-
period Kent village which he is sending
to Melbourne’s Lud Mayor in apprecia-
tion of the “food sent to the people of
Lambeth from Victoria.” The model,
which includes everything from the
horses’ hitching-posts to the local inn,
should bring joy to thousands of young
Australians. The people of Lambeth
subscribed £BO to cover packing charges,
and Victoria’s Agent-General, Norman
Martin, persuaded a shipping company
to promise free transport for the models.
* * * *
“Hist”: Coo’tamundra seems to have
the right idea for dealing with “Commo”
public meetings —no rudeness, no crude
shouted exchange of insults, no rough
stuff. The recipe is simple: just turn the
meeting into a pleasant social gathering.
“During the speeches,” says the press
report, “there was a consistent undertone
of conversation until it was impossible
to hear the speakers. Men read news-
papers and women knitted. Groups of
men formed in various parts of the hall,
joked among themselves and laughed
aloud. Men walked across to greet old
friends, with complete disregard of the
platform, and exchanged hearty saluta-
tions. It was all tremendously good-
humored and without any suggestion of
bitterness.” Finally, the meeting having
been called to sponsor support for the
Bank Grab, the chairman was invited to
accept a resolution demanding a refer-
endum. When he refused, the meeting
put it to themselves and carried it with
four dissentients.
* * * *
“Miilswyn”; “Mullum’s” failure to
find any evidence of “two-up” in five
years’ R.A.A.F. service (B. 3 /12/’47) is
amazing to say the least; perhaps he
was an adjutant. Of course “two-up”
may be played with threepenny pieces
thrown from an eye-bath on to a bed or
blanket or by throwing a special kind of
dice from a cylindrical holder. Most
stations tolerated “swi” on the principle
that it is better to have these things in
the public eye and subject to unofficial
observation than to drive them into the
scrub. Now the subject has arisen, I
can’t recall any W.A.A.A.F. calling “Two
bob in the guts,” or even “coming in on
the grouter.”
THE BALTS.
“Immigration Minister Calwell, after expressing
a preference for the term ‘New Australians’ rather
than ‘migrants’ for prospective settlers from over-
seas, extolled newly-arrived Balts.”
They come from a deuce of a distance
Where the Baltic rampageously roars
To seek a more placid existence
On our favored and fortunate shores.
They’re here to recapture the freedom
Reft from them by Russian assaults.
And who will suggest we don’t need ’em?
So here’s to the Balts!
They come—and the fact not the least is
Of the stamps on their shoulders it sets —
From the realms of Estonians (or Eesties),
The lands of the Liths and the Letts.
They’re widely removed from the masses
Whose ingress infrequently stops,
And Yank phraseology classes
As “Bohunks” and “Wops.”
They’re honest and vigilant keepers
Of laws, you may safely suppose,
And equally handy with reapers
And binders and axes and hoes.
In short, of all incoming aliens
One’s fancy determinedly halts
At featuring better Australians
In posse than Balts.
And lastly, in form and in figure,
We’ve here (teste Calwell) a race
WhoTe models of masculine vigor
And patterns of feminine grace.
With passports like these to make feather-
weights, if there were any, of faults,
You’ll echo with me, all together,
Here’s luck to the Balts!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
« SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householder s’,
Workers' Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
BOOKS: THE IDEAL GIFTS
WILD FLOWERS OF ATI s T KALI A, by Thistle Y. Harris. A new de luxe edition,
portraying over 250 Australian wild flowers in natural colour from painting
by Adam Forster. 17/6 (post 10d.).
THE SUNLIT LAND. Wanderings in Queensland, by Charles Barrett.
Profusely illustrated. 16/- (post 6a.).
MEMOIRS OF A PREMIER’S WIFE, by Ada A. Holman .... .
A book of outstanding interest, by the wife of New South Wales most brilliant
Premier. 12/6 <P° st 6d,) ’
72 ESSAYS, by Walter Murdoch. A new and outstanding selection. 12/6 (post 6d.).
LACHLAN MACQUARIE, HIS LIFE, ADVENTURES AND TIMES, by M. H Ellis.
With reference notes, bibliography and full-page colour plates. 42/- (post 1/4).
AT THE SIGN OF THE DOLPHIN, an Elizabeth Goudge anthology
Including a generous selection from all the famous novels. 14/9 (post 6d.).
EMPIRE YOUTH ANNUAL 1947, with a message from Field-Marshal Smuts.
An important and absorbing book, profusely illustrated with full-page colour
plates and others in black and white. 18 / 3 (P o> d • -).
An outstanding selection of books for Boys and Girls are on display.
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. MA 6511.
The British Labour Minister, in introducing the
“1946 Assurance Companies Act,” stated that “The
1946 Act” :
“Acknowledges the inherently international
and comprehensive character of insurance.”
The Labour President of the Board of Trade in
the House of Commons also stated that it would
be proper to inform the House of the attitude of the
Labour Government toward the future of -.British
Insurance business. The Government, he stated, had
no intention of interfering with the transaction of
Insurance business by private enterprise. It is, he
stated the desire of the Government that Insurance
should be, in the future, as in the past, dealt with
on an international bisis and as business of an inter-
national character.
FOR 69 Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security foY the homes of the people.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all Stales.
“Whitebait”: Weather-bound by three
weeks of wet, Sydney’s city workers
greeted their first sunny lunch-hour with
some amazen#nt and suspicion, and then
bravely headed out for belated Christmas
shopping. Fifty thousand and three corns
that came from the quest of cheaper
things hindered progress ; the acquisition
of bulky parcels made it worse. Mostly
they gathered in exhausted swarms and
gazed into decorated windows at legends
of the Yuletide spirit to convince them-
selves again that it was all worth while.
The mightiest cluster extended from a
window to the gutter, and on each person’s
face was envy and an obvious great long-
ing for something in his past. I battled
in, expecting to see a glorious Santa
Claus or fairies. The window contained
three workmen who had been painting,
peacefully lying down, eating their lunch
regardless of the herd—with their shoes
off!
* * * *
“Nick”: Considering that they have
daily access to the “Letters to the Editor”
columns of the “Times,” an evergrowing
form of encyclopaedia to which doctors,
members of Parliament, chimney-sweeps,
town-criers and even marbles champions
contribute, I was surprised to hear the
English team go down in the recent Loan
quiz. Whatever the subject brought up
by a “Times” correspondent, the accepted
world authority pipes up and spills the
correct beans. A typical letter came re-
cently from an expert on Burma who
answered the query of why there were
precisely 96 rubies in Burma’s necklace
gift to Princess Elizabeth. He claimed
that the necklace was jn the form of a
charm to account for the 96 diseases
which, in Burmese lore, afflict mankind
He also slated that in letters between
Burmese people of standing the hope is
often expressed “that the recipient will be
‘as impervious to the 96 diseases as the
lotus-leaf to water,’ or words to that
effect.”
* * * *
“Plop”: “Them musical advertisements
been getting y’ down?” queried the elec-
trician putting the finishing touches of
repair on my radio’s power-point. I
lied and told him that I’d kicked it acci-
dentally, but he knew better: “We get
a lot of business this way. Some people
get wild listening to the Parliament broad-
casts, but most of ’em over the advertise-
ments.” When he had gone I thought
over his observation and was pleased to
realise that when I rally my crusade
against those advertising fiends who
clutter up the air-waves, my army will
be a noble one —not just a one-country
affair but international, drawing several
brigades at least from America. They’d
be staunch fighters, the Yanks, for they
suffer the infliction far more than we do.
And when it’s all over with peace and
good music free again, we’ll hold the
radio-crime trials. The Yanks will no
doubt wish to tar-and-feather the bloke
who recently started to advertise on one
of their stations by declaring at the close
of the evening programme: “The next
seven hours of restful quiet are sponsored
by ‘Springo’—the mattress like air.” But
we’ll hang ’em all.
* * * *
“Minto”: Radio-operators on our air-
courier service thought nothing of send-
ing a private message in with the official
traffic to the ground operators. This
didn’t please the authorities, and they
installed a notorious nark at one of the
stations to monitor all messages. One
lad decided to give him something to
grizzle about. Twenty minutes before
landing back at base he tuned in a
description of the races on his receiver.
Then he turned on the transmitter and
held the headphones of the receiver
against the microphone. The monitor on
the ground was thus treated to a full-
blooded race description. I’ll bet he’s
still trying to puzzle out how it happened.
* * * *
“Ess”: Our office-boy got a sheet of
the firm’s official notepaper, wrote a few
lines in his own handwriting, borrowed
the managing director’s rubber stamp and
signed the m.d.’s name to the letter. The
“Wha dae ye tah' me for? Father Christmas !”
result he forwarded to a handwriting
expert. The glowing repty received
he proudly carries with him. It
states amongst other things that the
writer reveals “force, drive t and
organising ability above the ordinary;
the niche he has already carved for
himself is merely a stepping-stone to'
higher things,” etc., etc. , and ends
with the suggestion that he “perhaps
would like a calligraphic interpretation
of the characters of his family and staff.”
* * * *
“Findy”: For some time past I have
been intrigued by references in the
Sydney press to a mysterious appoint-
ment once held by a Sydney artist.
According to the columnists he was “poli-
tical advisfer to the Ogoga of Ikere” (one
columnist prefers Ikerre), who, it is im-
plied, is some African potentate. The
nearest I have ever been to darkest Africa
is the time I paid a shilling to see the
Congo pigmy woman and found myself
face to face with a somewhat older, but
no bigger edition of a little popsy I went
to school with in Surry Hills ; but I have
my suspicions about this Ogoga. A
thumbnail biography of the artist in
Who’s Who in Australia includes the
information “two years adviser to ‘Ogoga
of Ikere’,” but I’m still dubious. Gazet-
teers and atlases know not Ikere (or
Ikerre); encyclopaedias are silent about
the Ogoga; I’m betting left pocket
against right that the artist has been tak-
ing a very long pull of the columnists’
legs. If anyone can locate Ikere (or
Ikerre) for me I’ll take it all back and
if necessary apologise to the Ogoga in his
own language, provided his erstwhile
adviser will translate for me.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Since Melbourne lost
its cable-trams, its premier luxury train
which runs from Albury to the city has
replaced the old contraptions in popular
affection, and it consequently gets the
abbreviated name that all loved objects
do A foreign-looking gent standing on
the Spencer-street platform was accosted
by a woman. “Has the Spirit arrived?
she asked. He looked round at the cir-
cumambient ether, then at the inquirer
and moved hastily off, with an expression
of acute alarm.
m * * *
“Ek Dum”: “Vide,” who assesses the
chance that Brigadier Veale is the drafter
of the battle-orders for the elimination
of Adelaide Town Hall pigeons (B.
17/12/’47), would not make a very good
military intelligence officer. He misses
just those salient facts which illuminate
the mind of the brilliant 1.0. Veale, an
Australian D.C.M. winner and one of the
few men in the world who speak the
almost dead language of Man (where
the Manx cats come from), commanded
the lost Sparrow Force in Timor. Would
Ole Luk Oie or Sherlock Holmes have
missed a clue like that in relation to the
appointment of a C. 0.5., Pigeon Elimina-
tion Force?
* # * *
“Territorian”: Despite the caustic
comments of Darwin residents, one must
confess that the rebuilding of Darwin
is being manfully developed by the
powers-that-be. They have made a start
on what is, in their ideas, the most im-
portant section of the programme. The
old Fanny Bay jail has been repaired and
enlarged, there have been new and en-
larged cells built at the rear of the (tem-
porary) police station, a start has been
made on the new cemetery, and all the
hotels are busy on extensions.
* * * *
“McOatcake”: Angus, the elder, had
been at the grindstone again. His clay-
more whistled as he made a few practice
strokes in the backyard. Recognising
the familiar symptoms I approached and
asked, “Someone been insulting the haggis
again?” “Aye,” he replied, severing our
lemon-tree with a savage swipe and fall-
ing back on English in his anger, “the
worst insult I’ve ever heard. I didn’t
mind so much when the American War
Department placed a haggis in a bucket
of water, thinking it some sort of bomb ;
I forgave the Englishman who claimed
he heard music coming out of one of
’em. But, look at this, lad, and gird
yourself.” He handed me a newspaper
clipping:
New York, Wednesday.—A haggis sent
from Scotland to the Illinois St. Andrew’s
Society was condemned here yesterday
because it might spread foot-and-mouth
disease.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Anno domini has-caught
me at last. Was concentrating on a
minor job the other day, sucking at a
cigarette and thinking how the damp
weather made the darn things hard to
draw. It went out, and I left it in my
mouth while I finished the job. It v/as
only when I picked up a smouldering
cigarette and tried to sign the work with
it that I woke up.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A Melbourne health in-
spector was examining a Fitzroy back-
yard for evidence of lack of sanitation
among the tenants. Behind the woodshed
he came on an impressive mound of
empty bottles. “That’s a lot of bottles,”
said the inspector to the housewife. “It
must run well into three figures.” “Yes,”
proudly piped up the five-year-old cling-
ing to her skirts. “And it’s only from
one night.”
* * * *
“Torch”: Christmas dinners? I’ve
had some at pubs, many (too many) in
army huts, one in a train, one in a plane,
but most at home with the old folks.
Those at home were always the best; but
I’ll never forget the time I had Christmas
dinner at sea. On that morn I
was returning from the beach store with
a couple of items for the missus when a
friend invited me for a trip in his new
launch. Give me an appetite for dinner,
he said. At dinner-time we were two
miles from- shore, with a dead engine,
paddling for home with the floor-boards.
If I’d not gone on the trip my friend
would have had a glass of water for his
Christmas dinner. As it was we were
able to dine sumptuously on the contents
of my shopping-bag—a pound of green
tomatoes and a tin of liver salts.
*’* * *
“M 8”: Usually when a man as
prominent as Stanley Baldwin pegs out
there is an outburst of stories about him.
Somehow Baldwin seems not to have
been the typt for that sort of thing. All
the same 1 recall a good one. When he
was Prime Minister he found himself
sharing a railway compartment with a
chap who leaned forward and said, “By
Jove, aren’t you young Baldwin? I
knew you at Harrow.” Baldwin admitted
that he was. The other leaned back,
obviously pleased with his feat of memory
and beamed. Then he leaned forward,
tapped the Baldwin knee and confiden-
tially inquired, “By the way, what are you
doing now?”
* * * *
“Jurutulis”: One aftermath of the war
is a boom in Austraiiana. It is not con-
fined to the passionate collector of mem-
orabilia of Adam Lindsay Gordon and
Henry Lawson, but is worldwide.
American collectors will give ridiculous
prices for scraps of paper on which have
been scrawled a few lines of doggerel by
a minor poet if he dates from the infancy
of the country, and early documents of
value have brought - fantastic figures in
England. Charles Barrett, the indefatig-
able creator of future Austraiiana, had a
chance some years ago of acquiring a
first edition of Gould’s Birds of Aus-
tralia for £270 ; the same volume changed
hands the other day at an auction in
London for 600 guineas. The reason for
the present rise in prices is, of course, the
number of fresh people who have started
collections and who, like the phila-
telists, are made miserably unhappy if
their museum lacks in some section. Any-
body who is finding it difficult to meet
the demands of the taxation department
would be well-advised to root around in
the attic —one never knows what time
may' have done for some perfectly com-
monplace book or old letter.
. f
NUDISTS.
"Sydney police raided a party of nudists, men and
women, who were all fined tor ‘offensive behavior.
A form of true eugenics, it’s asserted.
Not long imported to these pleasant shores
But practised by a more or less perverted
Sect known in Canada as Doukhobois,
Who find in it, one understands, a focus
For their religious brand of hocus-pocus.
It seems to me a harmless sort of “ism”
But one that needs, in Dr. Evatt’s phrase,
To be approached with “cautious optimism
And subtly shielded from the public gaze.
Your nudist obviously shouldn’t be found
Doing his stuff if there are cops ground.
He cannot shun arrest and bolt for shelter,
As two-up devotees are wont to do,
Streaking across the landscape helter-skelter
To circumvent stern officers in blue.
His all-too-noticeable lack of draping
Would clearly queer his chances of escaping.
To see a bunch of startled nudists skipping
■ p ast you, like ’roos disturbed from their
retreats, , .
Would naturally set your fancies slipping
To the “wild minstrelsy” described by Keats.
You’d rub your eyes and then presumably
Join in the animated hue-and-cry.
Choose more secluded spots, you sprightly
section
Of bright young things who bid dull care
begone *
By hitting breezes void of hide protection
And basking in the sun with nothing on.
If nudity appeals, experience teaches
You can get mighty near it on the beaches.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


T. & G. Mutual Life Society
OUTSTANDING PROGRESS
NEW BUSINESS.
The Chairman, Mr. J. T. Thompson, said:
“The operations for the year were character-
ised by a large increase of New Business in all
Departments. In the Life Departments 132,551
Policies, assuring £26,649,968, were issued, an
amount of £4,522,446 in excess of the previous
year’s aggregate. This record amount of New
Business was derived solely from Australia and
New Zealand. In the Accident Department
11,003 Policies, assuring £3,678,866, were issued,
and Accident Benefits, assuring £6,124,459, were
added to Life, Policies. While inflationary ten-
dencies prevail, it is obvious that the diversion
of so much money, which could have been
spent on non-essentials, into Life Assurance
Contracts of long durations must be a steadying
influence in the economic structure.
“A higher percentage than usual of the year’s
New Business arose from Group Assurance
operations. Greater interest is being displayed
by Employers in making provision for the
Superannuation of their Staffs, many contribu-
tions to sajch schemes being substantial. Em-
ployers are to be commended for their wisdom
in taking such an important step which will
assist appreciably in the promotion of goodwill
and the maintenance of happy relations with
their Employees. Companies and other Em-
ployers contemplating a Superannuation Scheme
are invited to seek the expert assistance of the
Society’s efficient Group Assurance Staff.
INCOME AND TAXATION.
“The Income increased by £834,719 to
£9,918,187, a record in the Society’s history. In
common with other Life Assurance Societies, a
decline in the rate of interest earned on the
funds is being experienced. It is to be hoped
that Interest rates will not eventually become
so low that all incentive to save will disappear.
Habits of thrift are not easily encouraged
where the incentive is lacking. The amount
paid in Income and Land Taxes was £174,170.
A Mutual Life Society does not exist for profit
or gain, but for protection and security, and I
look forward to the day when its valuable ser-
vices to the Community will be so fully under-
stood and appreciated that complete immunity
will be granted from the taxation of the funds
of the Members.
ASSURANCE FUNDS.
“The funds now amount to £54,343,303, the
increase, £4,079,994, being , the largest ever
recorded. These funds belong only to the
Policyholders, there being no Shareholders in
a Mutual Life Society. They are held in trust
for the purpose of meeting all Claims under
Policies. During the year more than £2,000,000
was invested in Government Loans in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. In addition, large
sums were invested in Local Body and Public
Authority Loans chiefly for public works. Two
buildings, one in Sydney and the other in
Adelaide, were purchased.
“The Society’s Home Purchase System con-
tinues to prove attractive, a large number of
Home Purchasers having been assisted during
the past year. Any interested in the acquisition
of a home should seek the advice of the
Society.
The Seventy-first Annual Meeting of th<a Society was held on Thurs-
day, 18th December, at the Society’s Head Office in Melbourne.
THE ACTUARIES’ REPORT.
“The conservative bases of valuation adopted
last year were again used. A surplus of
£1,082,948 was disclosed and the Joint Actu-
aries recommended that after reserving £45,000
for Actuarial Contingencies, the greater part of
the balance be distributed as Reversionary
Bonuses, maintaining the same satisfactory
bonus scales as for the previous year.'
PROGRESS OF SOCIETY.
“Payments to Policyholders increased to
£3,801,416, although Death Claims in both Life
Departments showed a reduction compared to
the previous year’s figures. The Society has
practically doubled its size in the last ten years.
The Income has increased from £5,424,878 to
£9,918,187; the Assets, £27,970,987 to
£56,594,963, and the Assurances in Force,
£80,351,044 to £160,643,791. During this period
the total Payments to Policyholders amounted
to £31,000.000.
POPULARITY OF MUTUAL SYSTEM.
“The last decade has witnessed an amazing
growth in the popularity of the voluntary sys-
tem of Mutual Life Assurance, a system based
on the mutuality of interests and pooling of re-
sources. The funds are held in trust by the
Directors until required. The transactions in
each Department, including expenses, are kept
separate and distinct from the transactions in
the other Departments. When all reservations
have been made for liabilities, any resultant sur-
plus is equitably distributed each year in Re-
versionary Bonuses to Policyholders entitled to
participate, there being no Shareholders to be
considered. The system is co-operative in the
fullest sense, thus enabling small periodical pay--
ments of Members, which would be difficult to
invest individually, to be combined to form a
fund of substantial proportions, capable of
being employed more advantageously. These
Investments not only benefit Members, among
whom are hundreds of thousands of Industrial
workers, but also benefit the Community in
various ways. So satisfactory have been the re-
sults under the voluntas Mutual system that I
feel confident of a continuance of its popularity
and a strong demand for new Assurances. Even
if the rate of interest should fall lower and
Societies generally experience difficulty in main-
taining bonuses on the present liberal scales, it
is certain that Mutual Assurance will still be
popular, as it is regarded by the Public as the
most satisfactory way of making provision for
old age and for dependants after death.
STAFF.
“I cannot conclude without paying a tribute
to the Society’s Staffs, both) Field and Indoor.
The growth of Membership has been such that
records have to be kept in respect of nearly one
and a half million policy contracts. I take this
opportunity to convey the sincere thanks of the
Board and myself to all Members of the Staff
for their loyal and efficient service.
“It is with regret that I have to announce the
death during the year of one of the Society’s
Auditors, Mr. C. A. Holmes. The Board has
placed on record its appreciation of the valued
services rendered to the Society by him during
the past 23 years.”
The retiring Directors, Messrs. A. R. Stewart
and H. G. Brain, and the retiring Auditors,
Messrs. A. McK. Hislop and J. M. F. Relph,
were re-elected.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
sd
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
i
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories,
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (Aus.), Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1940.. 110,479 10 p.c. ™ 90,511 19,968 273,375
1941.. 103,089 10 „ „ 90,511 12,578 285,953
1942.. 125,192 8 „ 72,408 52,784 338,737
1943.. 133,542 8 „ „ 77,232 56,310 395,047
Investment reserve disclosed, £39,695 434,742
1944.. 140,300 9 p.c. = 86,697 51,603 486,345
Added investment reserve, £3,560 .. 489,905
1945.. 142,901 10 p.c. = 98.552 44,349 534,254
1946.. 143,027 8 „ „ 78,842 64,185 598,439
To reserves a/c goodwill telecom-
munications, £1,120,828 .. 1,719,267
Reserves capitalised, £1,120,828.. 598,439
Intangibles disappear, £49,067 .. 647,506
Net surplus a/c tangibles, £60,676.. 708,182
1947.. 82,959 8 p.c. = 33,508 49,451 757,633
Shareholders have nothing to complain
about in the recent deal with the Gov-
ernment, which took over the cq.’s tele-
communication assets and business as
from the beginning of October, 1946.
It was part of the scheme whereby
Britain, the Dominions and India agreed
to nationalise their external comihunica-
tions. In this case the price was
£1,400,000 (cash), of which £1,120,828
was for goodwill and the balance
(£279,172) for physical assets. The pay-
ment was for the interests of shareholders
other than the Government, which itself
held, and still holds, 50.7 p.c. of the co.’s
paid capital.
The amount received for goodwill was
capitalised by the issue of bonus scrip
—-461 for every 200 shares held—which
was immediately redeemed for cash. The
£279,172 received for physical assets was
used to return 11s. 6d. of each of
485,517 £1 shares, reducing them to
Bs. 6d. each. At the same time 11s. 6d.
of each of the 500,001 £1 shares held
by the Government was cancelled, leav-
ing them also paid to Bs. 6d. each. Paid
capital thus advanced from £985,518 to
£2,106,346 by the issue of bonus scrip,
and was then reduced to £418,845 by
repayment of £1,400,000 in cash, and
cancellation of £287,501 in respect of
Government-owned shares.
For each original £1 share, which was
covered by 325. Id. in net tangibles (book
value) and priced at 725. in the market in
October, 1946, shareholders (other than
the Government) received 575. 7d. in
cash and now hold one share f.-p. to
Bs. 6d., which is covered by 235. lOd. in
net tangibles and is worth 395. 6d., or
thereabouts, in the market. The pur-
chaser at 755. in October, 1946, can thus
see a capital gain of 225. if he cares to
take it. The difficulty would be to find
another investment with equally good,
or better, prospects and security.
The next table shows the effect of the
deal upon the financial set-up and other
things; —•
+lncrease.
1915. 1946. 1947. Decrease.
Paid capital.. £985,518 £985,518 £418,845—566,673
Sundry creditors 872,506 777,678 625,768—151,910
Dep. reserve 997,501 987,854 724,687 263,167
Freeholds* .. 677,697 682,851 525,488—157,363
Plant, etc.*. . 1,081,124 1,120,769 688,973 431,796
Stocks .. 443,062 621,094 756,082+134,988
Shares other
cos.. .. 105,080 111,654 130,154+ 18,500
Book debts .. 704,063 709,165 445,203 263,962
Cash, etc. .. 437,885 136,378 14,543 121,835
Patents . . 85,811 85,811 85,811
Other intangibles 49,067 49,067 49,067
*At cost; subject to specific reserves (now
£724,687).
Growth in stocks, to meet which cash,
etc., was drawn upon, indicates the re-
vival of manufacture and stocking of the
various selling departments with normal
merchandise. The addition to sharehold-
ings reflects the co.’s joint interest with
S. Smith and Sons (Eng.), Ltd., and
others in a new Australian co. for manu-
facture of all types of motor-car and air-
craft accessories—K.L.G. spark plugs are
already being turned out. The contrac-
tion in all other items was mainly on
account of the t sale to the Government.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids (£1,345,982, including sharehold-
ings and stocks) exceeded ofitside liabili-
ties (£625,768) by a comfortable £720,214.
Activities now centre mainly in manu-
facture of a wide range of electrical gear,
including all kinds of radio transmitting
and receiving equipment and navigational
radar and other instruments. The co.’s
broadcasting station 2CH is showing
“satisfactory results,” and so are the
marine-refrigeration section, the valve-
manufacturing and other subsidiaries, and
the Marconi school for training operators
and technicians.
The co.’s products have a wide overseas
as well as local market. Last term sub-
stantial orders were received for both
radio and telephone equipment from New
Zealand, India, S. Africa and China.
Profits include earnings (which will be
non-recurrent) from the Beam service,
etc., for the first quarter. After allowing
£46,527 for depreciation and something
for taxation and other contingencies, net
earnings were £60,068 short of the pre-
vious year’s at £82,959, or an attractive
19.8 p.c. on capital as it now stands. The
cautious management put more on the
shelf than was distributed in the 8 p.c.
div. After deducting intangibles, reserves
were £338,788 in excess of paid capital,
so the two combined need turn in only
5 p.c. in order to show 16 p.c. on capital
alone.
At 395. 6d. the return is 1.7 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for 3.5 p.c. on his money counts on
a 16 p.c. distribution, or other benefits.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends —^
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
&& £ £ £
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 8,526 74,388
1939.. 21,278 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 3,522 77,910
1940.. 23,205 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 5,449 83,359
1941.. 28,052 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 10,296 93,655
To staff fund, £lO,OOO 83,655
Unexplained additions, £2500 .. .. 86,155
1942.. 27,370 4000 10 p.c. t= 13,756 9,614 95,769
To staff fund, £2224 93,545
1943.. 25,060 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 7,304 100,849
To staff fund, £3021 .. ..1 9 o i2io9Sfii
1944.. 29,789 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 ) 109,861
To staff fund, £8450 .. ••I 12 111 191 Q 79
1945.. 38,317 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 ( 12,111 121,9 ‘ 2
To staff fund, £3734 .. • • I 9 n iQ Q tao ati
1946.. 41,989 4000 10 p.c. := 13,756 | 2U,49J 142,471
Premiums on share issue, ]
To £ staff 3 fund, £3729" p 60,778 203,249
1947.. 34,862 4000 10 p.c. =16,292 J
•After deducting intangibles (£2935).
The outlook for this soundly-established
manufacturing organisation, upon which
the women of the Commonwealth and its
neighboring Dominion depend for most
of their foundation is more
encouraging than the slip of £7127 in
last term’s profit figure suggests. The
time lag between the rise in costs and
official approval of increased selling prices
was the trouble. Also, supplies of raw
materials from Britain were restricted,
thus forcing the co. into the high-priced
dollar market for some of its require-
ments. Sales notched a new record,
which helped to cushion the effects of
rising costs. The four associated cos. are
all operating at a profit and paying regu-
lar divs. Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd., pays 17i
p.c.; the curtain is kept drawn over the
figures of the other three—Berlei Pty.
(Vic.), Warners “Le Gant” Pty., and
Berlei (U.K.), Ltd., which has long done
good work as buyer of basic materials
for its antipodean colleagues. «And the
two factories recently set up at Wollon-
gong and Lithgow (N.S.W.), to help
overcome the labor problem, are giving a
good account of themselves.
The £34,862 of profit, third-best in
the co.’s history, was written after allow-
ing for depreciation and taxation, and
deducting staff profit-sharing divs. (£2087)
and an unexplained reduction of £B6l
in reserves. It covered the pref. div.
(£4000) and 18.9 p.c. on average ord.
capital employed, compared with 27.6,
24.5, 18.4, 15, 16.7, 17.2 and 13.7 p.c.
back to 1940. The div. was kept at 10
p.c. for the 12th year in succession,
and £3729 was sent to the staff provident
fund.
Early in the term £49,937 of fresh ord.
capital was gathered at a premium of
100 p.c,, and the remaining 10s. was
called on 51,000 ords., making them f.-p.
to £1 each. Issued capital thus became
£263,000 in 50,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs; and
213,000 ords., on which there was £1927
to come when the books closed. When
all the money is in, the pref. div. and
10 p.c. to the ords. will call for £25,300,
or £9562 less than was netted last term.
The £71,016 of new capital gathered,
together with £49,937 of share premiums
and a net increase of £19,902 in the out-
side debt, went into stocks (up £100,398),
book debts (up £46,819) and fixed assets
(up £28,198):
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital. . £190,057 £190,057 £190,057 £261,073
Overdraft .. 32,133 48,613 08,371 106,593
Creditors* .. 19,194 53,881 97,994 79,674
Freeholds .. 62,792 75,009 83,087 103,201
Plant.. .. 10,904 19,374 22,009 30,027
Investments! . 89,854 90,229 91,010 66,647
Stocks . . 105,757 203,714 271,554 371,952
Book debts .. 54,507 35,316 51,574 98,393.
Cash, etc. .. 4,297 14,099 3,537 5,800
* Including taxation, t Shares in associated cos.
The contraction of £24,363 in investments
was on account of sale of shares in sub-
sidiaries, which realised, a small capital
profit that was whisked away to inner
reserves. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£341,585) was £105,275_ stronger
than at the previous balance.
As for the current term, continued
on the up-grade, owing to introduction of
the 40-hour week and all-round' rise in
prices. However, demand for the co.’s
products still runs ahead of production,
and British and American manufacturers
are in much the same position. This
and the dollar shortage virtually elimi-
nates competition from overseas. Even
in an unrestricted market, where quality,
fit, style and price are the determining
factors in sales, Berlei is well equipped
to give a good account of itself.
The £1 ords. at 58s. 6d. return 3.4 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at
355. yield 4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book value) is £9 6s. 6d. prefs. and 395.
Id. ords.
Exec., Trustee and Agency Co. (S.A.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. t —‘ —Dividends serves, serves.
1940.. 13,400 10 p.c. = 10,000 ]
Staff fund, £650 .. ..1 , onR * Q
Bldg, improvements, £404. . ( 2249 , ‘
Patriotic funds, £lOO ..J
1941.. 11,667 10 p.c. = 10,000 ] ? 191 fi o 6
Staff fund, £650 . . .. J 1017 121,b9b
1942.. 10,545 10 p.c. = 10,0001
To tax provision, £3993 . . ■ 117,598
Staff fund, £O5O .. .. J
1943.. 10,872 10 p.c. = 10,000 ] 999 117 S9n
Staff fund, £650 .. ..j 222 117,820
1944.. 10,763 10 p.c. = 10,000 ] ~, 119 Q„,
Staff fund, £650 .. ( 118 117,933
1945.. 11,646 10 p.c. = 10,000 ] QQ9 , IQnon
Staff fund, £650 .. .. j 990 118 > 929
1946.. 11,564 10 p.c. = 10,000 ] q,.
Staff fund, £650 .. ..) 914 119,843
1947.. 11,850 10 p.c. = 10,000'] 12QQ 191
Staff fund, £650 .. 12UU 121,043
Shareholders in this 66 - year - old
Adelaide trustee eg. have received regu-
lar annual divs. averaging 10.5 p.c. over
the last 26 years—a steady 12 p.c. for
11 years to the close of accounts in 1930,
followed by four lots of 8 p.c. and then
10 p.c. each year since. Though margins
recently became very slender, there was
a heartening improvement last term,
thanks to expansion of the business,
which can be expected to continue. Still,
with things as they are, nothing better
than 10 p.c. need be looked for for some
time.
The trouble is that corpus and other
commission charges have remained
anchored by legislation over a very long
period, while costs have continued to
drift on the rising tide of inflationary
Government spending, accelerated by two
world wars and a maze of socialistic
and other legislation, especially in con-
nection with taxation and the administra-
tion of estates. Also, earnings have been
retarded by the official blanket thrown
over capital values and rents, and by


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt.
Missing Friend.
TO MALCOLM KENNETH McKENZIE formerly of
Burgess Street Beaumaris a member of the Aus-
tralian Imperial Forces and later shed hand but now
of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wif
ELIZABETH WYN McKENZIE has instituted pro-
ceedings for a divorce on the ground of desertion
Unless you ENTER AN APPEARANCE in the office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of \ ic-
toria at Melbourne on or before the 28th day of
January 1948 the case may proceed in your absence
If you intend to defend the suit you must file an
answer in the said office on or before the 6th day
of February 1948 And further take notice that the
sealed copv petition and copy citation in this suit
may be inspected at the office of the Petitioner s
Solicitors.—McNAß & McNAB, 422 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
.—Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO BOLTON CHRISTIAN ROBSON of No. 6 Ada
Street Concord in the State of New South Wales but
whose present whereabouts are unknown. —I ARE
NOTICE that an action has been commenced against
you in the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane
by Writ of Summons No. 1106 of 1947 by AUDREY
ALICE ROBSON your wife in which she claims
dissolution of her marriage with you and by her
petition filed herein she alleges that on or about
the Twelfth day of September 1942 you wilfully
deserted her without cause or excuse and have since
continuously deserted her without cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and it has been ordered
that service of the said writ and petition on you
be effected by delivering office copies of the said
writ petition and the order by pre-paid A. R. Post
addressed to Mrs. Georgina Robson, 18 Kennedy Road
Austinmer in the State of New -South Wales and
by publishing this notice in three consecutive issues
in the Bulletin a newspaper published at Sydney
in the State of New South Wales If you desire to
defend this action you must within forty-four days
from the doing of the last of such acts enter an
appearance at the Registry of the said Court at
Brisbane and in default of your so doing the Plaintiff
may by leave proceed in the action and judgment may
be given against you in your absence DATED the
Twelfth day of December, 1947. —(1.5.) H. R. FITZ-
PATRICK, Acting Second Deputy Registrar.—H.
TREMLETT FRANCIS, Solicitor, 161 Queen Street,
Brisbane,
LOOK
I
■
Beehive Makers
Wood workers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
The "WOODMACHINCO”
WONDER BENCH
fsdf
Immediate
Delivery.
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills boles, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
cluding saw and planer
blades, £l7/10/-. Also
lathe outfit.
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
IJin. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, does
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States,
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
MAIMS
Circular Charts ia> all iyp« of
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Go* ou» quotation
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET I*l V. LTD. BRISBANE. O'ID.
LIABILITIES.
Inscribed Stock and Debentures
Reserve Fund —invested as per contra 1,117,502
Special Reserve—used in the busi-
ness (Established under Section
12(2) of Rural Bank of New South
Wales Act, 1932, in relation to the
share of the profits of the Common-
wealth Savings Bank of Australia in
its operations in New South Wales) 2,944,059
Deposits, Bills Payable, other Lia-
bilities, (including Commonwealth
Re-establishment schem'e) and pro-
vision for contingencies
Government Agency Department—
* Group 1 Capital Account ... 10,967
* Group 2 Capital Account ... 241,458
Prescribed Authority The Com-
monwealth Re-establishment and
Employment Act, 1945
£
11,239,751
4,061,561
7,763,235
252,425
1,107,492
* Established under Sections
70K. and 70M. of Act No. 48,
1906, as amended.
£24,424,464
(Mm/ HL Mm/
RURAL DANE DEPARTMENT
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1947
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1947
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of other Banks and Balances
with and due from other Banks
Treasury Bills —
Australian Governments —F. V. £1,250,000 ...
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills) —
(a) Australian Government
Securities 4,283,531
(b) Local and Semi-Govern-
mental Authorities' Securities 45,536
Reserve Fund Investments —
(a) Australian Government
Securities 702,553
(b) Local and Semi-Govern-
mental Authorities’ Securities 378,943
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted —includ-
ing Advances under Commonwealth Re-
establishment Scheme
Bank Premises and Sites —at cost, less amounts
written off
All other Assets —
Sundry Debtors (including Com-
monwealth Re-establishment
Scheme) and other Assets 258,113
Inscribed Stock Personal Loans
Department 506,900
Inscribed Stock Advances for
Homes Department 70,000
£
994,487
177,993
1,248,871
4,329,067
1,081,496
15,093,822
663,715
835,013
£24,424,464
JJtt.
To Interest paid and accrued
„ Expenses of Management
„ Balance transferred to Reserve Fund
£
360,847
308,372
42,723
£711,942
RESERVE FUND
CR.
£ „
By Earnings ••• 7X1,942
_—,
£711,942
DR.
1947
June 30 —To Balance ...
1,117,502
1946
July I—By Balance
June 30—By Balance transferred from Profit and
Loss Account
%
CR-
£
1,074,779
42,723
£1,117,502
LIABILITIES.
Inscribed Stock and Debentures
Reserve Fund - ••• •••
Deposits and other Liabilities, including Reserves
for Contingencies
Amount due to other Departments
£
9,714,176
1,126,247
1,578,378
18,671
£12,437,472
ADVANCES tor HOMES DEPARTMENT
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1947
ASSETS.
Cash at Bankers
Investments (at cost or market price,
whichever is the lower) —
Commonwealth Government Securities
Reserve Fund Investments (at cost or
market price, whichever is the
lower) —
Commonwealth Government
Securities ... ••• ••• •••
Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities’ Securities
949,596
154,308
Loans on Mortgage and Contracts of Sale
Sundry Debtors and other Assets
£
18,339
2,555,545
1,103,904
8,752,271
7,413
£12,437,472
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE,J947
UR.
To Interest paid and accrued
„ Expenses of Management
„ Balance transferred to Reserve Fund
£
329,836
125,929
25,703
By Earnings
RESERVE FUND
1947
June 30—To Balance
1946
July I—By1—By Balance
June 30 —By Balance transferred from Profit
and Loss Account
CR.
£
1,100,544
25,703
£1,126,247
We hereby certify that, to the best of our belief, the above Balance Sheets
BRUCE SMITH, Chief Accountant.
and Accounts are true and correct in every particular.
C. R. McKEßlHAN\£ omm i ss ; oners .
P. KEARNS J . «
S. M. NORTON, Secretary. J 3nd September. 1947.
Tfte books and accounts of the Rural Bank and Advances Secdons
South Wales have been examined and audited, for the year ended *** hoionZl Treasurer. ,
29 and 30 of the Government Savings Bank Act. 1906, and my report Balance Sheets correctly set out the financial
S./ m Memo,™ and » it. tmn u m and as sha.n ty Can.,A la, N.S.W.
SYDNEY, 11th December, 1947.
the Government’s frequent turns of the
cheap-money screw.
Last term £1,431,040 of .new business
was placed in the co.’s expert care. This
exceeded the value of estates wound up
by £315,376:
Gross Exes. p.c.
Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1939. . £12,116,390 £51,390 £38,926 75.7 p.c.
1940.. 12,253,449 52,358 38,958 74.4 „
1943.. 13,425,101 54,252 43,380 <9.9 „
1944 13,866,890 54,813 44,050 80.3 ~
1945.. 14,107,451 67,843 46,197 ”
1940.. 14,179,583 66,880 55,322 82.7 „
1947!! 14,494,954 73,321 01,508 83.8 „
Gross earnings from all sources were
£6435 better. Including £37 overprovided
for taxation in the previous year, the net
result benefited by £286 of the gain,
reaching 11.8 p.c. on the £lOO,OOO ot
paid capital as against 11.5, 11.4, 10.7,
10.8 and 10.5 p.c. back, to 1942. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the net result was 5.6 p.c.,
which suggests that the trustee section
of the business turns in very little profit
these days.
When the books closed capital and
reserves and £8796 of outside liabilities
were represented by freehold, etc.,
£95,777, Government securities £82,876,
mortgages £32,566 and cash, etc.,
£23,620.
The market prices the £1 shares paid
to ss. each at 14s. 9d., at which figure
the return is 3.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. diy.
basis. Net tangible cover (book value) is
10s. lid. ~
The hunt for oil in the Roma district
(Q.) is on again. This time a site on the
Rolleston area is to be deep-tested by
Shell (Qld.) Pty., an offshoot of the Shell
Co. of Australia, which is part of the
Royal Dutch-Shell combine, whose in-
terests extend to every corner of the
globe. Oil-drilling equipment capable ot
reaching a depth of 10,000 ft. was recently
landed in Brisbane from U.S.A., and will
be presently erected at Rolleston, where
preliminary surveys costing about quarter
of a million pounds have already been
made.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for 1947 is ex-
pected to top 700,0000 z., best for five
years. Bigger returns from Lake View
and other Kalgoorlie Golden Milers and
resumption of operations at Triton, Ora
Banda Amalgamated and a number of
smaller producers helped to swell the
State’s figures. Several mines now idle
will be worked again in the New Year,
provided the new Arbitration award
doesn’t strangle them.
* * * *
New Coolgardie Gold Mines flotation,
sponsored by Western Mining Corpoia-
tion, was oversubscribed. Prospectus re-
vealed that the co.’s job is to extract
gold from “small but high-grade ore
deposits on the Barbara and Surprise
leases on Block 59, Hampton Plains, and,
if sufficient inducement offers, those on
the Burbanks Group, Coolgardie (W.A.),
as well. Barbara and Surprise ore
reserves are estimated at 76,000 tons
averaging 13.8 dwt. More prospect-
ing, it is claimed, is likely to reveal
other ore bodies in these properties.
Lindsay Clark and F. F. Espie expect
£387,000 in operating profits from the
Hampton areas, less £40,050 for adminis-
tration and equipment, by treating 3000
tons a month. There is talk of a monthly
throughput of 6000 tons of 10 dwt. ore
or better, if Burbanks comes up to ex-
pectations. Of the 800,000 10s. shares
issued, the public was offered 320,000,
underwritten by Western Mining Corp.,
which also took 170,000 for cash and
310,000 fully-paids as vendor.
* * * *
Joe Thorn, Lake View and Star’s g.m.,
says production per man per shift was a
decimal lower last term, owing principally
to the larger tonnage milled, and that ore
extraction cost approximately Is. 9d. a
ton more owing to a rise in the basic
wage and dearer supplies, especially ex-
plosives and mine timber. Ore-treat-
ment costs declined from 9s. 2.97 d. to
7s. 9.95 d. a ton, thanks to the bigger
throughput. The labor situation has not
improved. Thorn has joined the Board
in place of the 94-year-old A. H. Collier,
who didn’t seek ie-election.
* * * *
Additional goldmining areas have been
pegged lately by cos. at the north and
south ends .of the Kalgoorlie field (W. A.).
On the north B.H.P. has added three
blocks, totalling about 60 acres, to its
Hannans North holding, and on the south
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie has acquired
34 leases, totalling some 800 acres, on
the strength of what geological mapping
of other near-by ground revealed,
He * * *
A group of seven Adelaide-controlled
goldmines, mostly in various stages of
rehabilitation or development, disclosed
one profit and six losses for the year to
June 30 last. Here are the details:
Co. Revenue. Expenses. Profit.
Phoenix G.M. . • .. £22,500 £671 £21,829
Loss.
Ora Banda Amalg. .. 25,701 54,642 28,941
Dundas G.M. .. • ■ • 2,891 n,6TJ 44,786
Burbidge G.M. ... 12,335 19,220 6,885
Fairplay G.M. ~ 240 3,663 f 3,423
Steriing G.M. 1,428 3,624 2,196
C’solidated G.M. Areas 117 1,388 1,2 <1
t Including £1687 brokerage, etc.
Phoenix, a big holder of Central Norse-
mans (W.A.), will pay a div. of 7£d. a
share on .January 14, and intends to send
out another of 6d. a share in February.
Co. is offering shareholders its quota of
135,000 ss. shares in Central Norseman,
approx. 67 for 100, payable Is. applica-
tion and’the balance as required. It is
expected that another shilling will be
asked for early in the new year.
* * * *
After spending £lO,OOO prospecting for
coal at Eradu in the north of Westralia,
the State Government has decided to give
up and cut its loss. Drilling proved the
existence of a fair-sized seam, but samp-
ling gave poor results. At present Collie,
in the south, is the one and only coalfield
in the West. The Government would like
to find another in the north to reduce
cost of supplies to its railways in that
part of the State.
Sic * * *
Westralian brevities: Western Queen,
N.L., which has drawn blanks to date,
has unwatered the old Golden Butterfly
mine, near Kookynie, preparatory to
sampling the workings. Co. recently
abandoned ap option on the Lady
Gladys, an old failure, near Mulline.
Western Mining Corp. has paid £lOOO
for extension of an option on the Cop-
perhead goldmining group at Yilgam.
An option which it holds on the Pilot
mine, on the same field, expires this
month. Diamond drilling and extensive
costeening have been carried out on this
property.


u
Cooking” Tyres
to prove the strength
of GOODYEAR TYRES
|
If your hand was under,, those lamps ouch!
Infra-red rays are keeping that Goodyear tyre at
212° F. hot enough to boil water. Held against
the revolving drum with a pressure equal to that of a
fully loaded car, it’s as if the tyre were speeding
along the road hour after hour while being literally
cooked in the steady, merciless heat. This is how
Goodyear tyres are tested to prove they will stand heat
tind stand it long after ordinary tyres have failed!
Here is one more proof that Goodyear tyres are the
best you can buy . . , another reason why Goodyear
tyres have been the world’s first
choice for 32 consecutive years.
More people, the world
over, ride on Goodyear
tyres than on any other
make.
C24/227
1(111111
f- M
Sij ■
FACING A PfIAK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
Thone BW 1361 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
j
7^
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling Hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes i.n a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & AUken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Chifley’s Christmas Card
The Commonwealth Bank’s instruction
to the trading banks, which met with Mr.
Chifley’s approval, included a request not
to increase the ' overdrafts of retail
concerns, and to influence landmen
“strongly” to reduce their overdrafts.
Trading banks have also been asked not
to finance new enterprises or extensions
to existing ones where (a) production is
not essential to the A ustralian economy ;
( b ) where the added capacity is likely to
increase production above ultimate de-
mand and (c) where production is
likely to be uneconomic in the long run.
Advances of “a temporary nature” may
be made to finance exports.
Much of the generalities of the fore-
going constitutes the ABC of a
banker’s policy anyway. It is a banker’s
job to restrict credit to the volume
needed for the setting-up of productive
machinery to satisfy a legitimate demand,
both for domestic and export purposes.
He should not extend credit to enter-
prises which are unlikely to be kept busy
by public demand, but he should have
regard for the future, and be interested,
in slack times, in helping to accelerate a
healthy public demand. If he manages
to assist in the increasing of production
and the demand for that output he is
doing a good job, especially if costs of
production are lowered and living
standards are thereby raised. But he
should give rather more consideration to
the export trade than is indicated by the
central bank’s directive.
And the central-bank instruction,
by drawing attention to “essential” pro-
duction, raises the question of what is
really in the Treasury’s mind. The ban-
ning of credit for luxury goods as a class
may be damaging to our economy: every
person hopes to be able to obtain luxuries,
or so-called luxuries, at some future
date, and if it is to be left to, say, Mr.
Dedman to define “unwanted luxuries”
we may find that industries which cater
for the normal requirements of a people
in full economic health may be damaged
without any real benefit being received by
“essential” industries, so called. In any
case, the furtive manufacturer of
trumpery stuff, who has flourished all
through the period of “Labor’s” regime,
will flourish all the more if the manu-
facture of “unessentials” is left to the
blackmarket.
The real trouble, so far as the shortage
in essential goods is concerned, arises
from the poor show put on by Mr.
Chifley’s friends the trade-unionists in
many industries, particularly on the coal-
fields, along the waterfront and in the
building trades. If they were all doing an
honest day’s work the drain of labor
caused by “unessential” industries would
not be in the least serious.
It appears that the banks have been
given specific instructions not to interfere
with the flow of credit for the production
of building materials. This must have
been done in opposition to the wishes of
Reconstruction Minister Dedman, who
has been emphatic in his disapproval of
people becoming “little capitalists”
through ownership of their own homes.
That capital expenditure should be
financed out of share-capital, not by over-
draft, is another central-bank instruction.
Advances for speculation on the Stock
Exchange, etc., and for non-commercial
credit-buying are to be discouraged, ac-
cording to the edict, and “full inquiry”
must be made into requests for accom-
modation to meet tax assessments. Ad-
vances may be provided for payment of
'probate duties, but must be liquidated
“within a reasonable period.”
As regards “primary producers”—
again it should be normal banking prac-
tice to caution landmen against anticipat-
ing the continuance of present prices for
“ I'll dong yer if y sing ‘Open the Door, Richard' any more.”
wool, wheat, etc., and to suggest that, even
if prices do stay high, there is the danger
that costs will increase, especially when
the Federal 40-hour week comes into
general operation, and that profitability
is likely to shrink from one cause or the
other. Obviously, however, the inflation
that has taken place in all costs and
prices (including politicians’ salaries)
cannot be ignored, and it may be perfectly
natural in some cases for overdrafts to
be higher than previously, even though
the successful farmer should be reducing
his at the present time, or, at least, after
the present clip and harvest are disposed
of.
The curb on retailers’ overdrafts needs
cautious handling. The people are still
short of many requirements normally
obtained through retailers, and again the
question of higher stock-replacement costs
crops up. More finance is needed to
carry * the same volume of stock—and
again trade-unionism is in a large measure
responsible for the inflation in costs,
though imported goods are much higher
in price, too.
Unquestionably the people are in pos-
session of a huge volume of money to-
day, and there should be little need indeed
to expand consumer- spending. But the
productive side of industry has suffered
the heaviest taxes and has been subject to
the most severe controls during the war
and post-war period, and it is in need
of an unusual amount of financial assist-
ance now. The Government’s Budgetary
policy has been one that has tended to
take from the productive side of industry
and add to the spending-power of the
people; its cockeyed “full-employment”
plans have the same effect.
The “Labor” Government and “Labor”
unionism are largely to blame for the
inflationary effects visible in the Aus-
tralian economy today. The war was
only partly responsible. The position
cannot be corrected merely by drastic
deflationary measures taken through the
banking system. The most necessary step
is to remove the “Labor” - created
“economics of scarcity,” and to restore
incentives to thrift (capital investment)
and to production.
Capital has migrated across the Tasman
as New Zealanders have liquidated hold-
ings of Australian stocks and reinvested
in N.Z. securities in the first year since
Commonwealth issues were freed from
control. This is squeezing Maorilanders
out of Australian markets and crowding
them in their own backyard. So thinks
Keith N. Buttle, chairman of the Auck-
land Stock Exchange, who blames M.L.’s
Reserve Bank as the main villain in the
piece. Under the ban against remit-
tancei of funds abroad, Maorilanders sit
helpless as they see new Australian capi-
tal issues move past which make their
mouths water, or writhe under stiff Cora-
monwealth taxation demands which take
the profit out of sale of rights. Nobody
has figured out who is the biggest loser
by this retreat of Maoriland capital, but
Australia won’t be embarrassed while
local surplus funds are swelled by inflow-
ing millions from U.K., India and else-
where. If ML. savings can’t be invested
in Australia they will seek outlets at home,
which domestic companies seem eager to
provide. So N.Z.’s flood of new shares
won’t peter out in 1948. Reserve Bank
action in bolting the door against over-
drafts for capital-spending in business
and industry would be strong enough to
see to that, but it is only one of the
prods in the backs of investors.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENf
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
’JACKSON
O'SUIUVAN
VTS-VD <„ y
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating'
A PIONEER
with
PIONEERS
From the beginnings of rural production in
Australia, and throughout the development of
this country into the great primary producing
nation which it has become, the Bank of New
South Wales has played a leading part.
As the sturdy early settlers courageously struck
out into virgin country, this Bank opened
branches to assist them.
Today, through over 750 branches and agencies
and 7,000 oversea agents, the "Wales” main-
tains its leadership in the provision of the
banking facilities essential for the production
of Australian primary produce and for its
marketing throughout the world.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(Incorporated In New South Wales with limited liability)
i m
■■w
HHHF.-a
SSB
'Sf*
w
E»
»»
griiSiivw
rr
1
W/Aft Piii
8 : S
m
l&£i
«aa
m
w
>lS|
4®
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRIN
STOLEN CERTIFICATES
The following New Zealand Government Bearer Stock Certificates were stolen
frpm the Reserve Bank of New Zealand, Wellington. New Zealand, between
the 30th May and the 15th July, 1947. All the Certificates mature on the
15th November, 195 7-60, and all bear interest at the rate of 3 per cent, per
annum, payable on the 15th May and November in each year.
Certificates Numbered 860/251-260 inclusive; £lOO each.
„ 860/598-605 inclusive; £5OO each.
” „ 860/651-655 inclusive; £lOOO each.
Public Notice is hereby given that payment of the interest and/or the principal
amounts shown in the Certificates has been stopped. Any person having any
knowledge of the Certificates is asked to report the matter to the Reserve
Bank at Wellington, New Zealand.
The Redundant Rouble
A fortnight before the actual facts be-
came known to the outside world, foreign
diplomats in Moscow were reporting a
“buying spree” by Soviet citizens in an-
ticipation of devaluation of the rouble.
There was a run on the banks, too,
alarmed Comrades turning their deposits
into currency. Then the truth became
known: the rouble was to be revalued—
upwards —by wiping out the old issue of
paper money and replacing it with a new
one. . . . ~
Holders of actual currency—including
those who rushed the banks —have been
hit hardest by the conversion, which took
place from the beginning of last week.
For currency, only a tenth of the old
money’s face value is being given back
in new roubles, and the remainder is
wiped out. Bank deposits up to 3000
roubles are replaced rouble for rouble ;
the next 7000 are converted at two new
for three old, and anything over 10,000
at one new for two old. Peasants, etc.,
who disliked the idea of banks will find
the family sock a shadow of its old self.
Investors in Soviet loans raised prior
to 1947 will be given one-third of the
face value of the old loan in a new con-
solidated issue. As far as can be gathered
from the cables wages will be paid at the
old face value with the new roubles, but
it has not been made clear how borrowers
—if there are any private borrowers in
the Soviet—will get on. Unless they are
granted cuts in the face value of over-
drafts they may find it hard indeed to
repay them with new money.
The official excuse is that war created
money but not goods for civilian con-
sumption, and the Germans are charged
with issuing large quantities of “false
roubles.” The authorities found the
Union floundering in money, but still
desperately short of many essential living
requirements. Apparently rationing has
proved unwieldy, not to say hopeless’; so
at this stage it has been decided to deal
with blackmarketeers, profiteers, tax-
evaders and note-hoarders by wiping out
a large proportion of the currency, im-
posing, by the same method, a delayed
tax on all persons in possession of cur-
rency of more than 3000 roubles in the
bank and repudiating two-thirds of the
face value of the national debt.
If all concerned were treated the same
the general effect —and injustice—might
not be great. But if wages are to stay at
the same number of new roubles as of
old money, obviously the thrifty as well
as the tax-evaders', etc., will be heavily
penalised. Apparently the position is
desperate to the extent that wage-earners
must be encouraged to work by increas-
ing their buying-power at the expense of
the bondholder, the depositor and the
crafty element.
The reduction in the amount of avail-
able money is reckoned to be drastic
enough to eliminate the need for ration-
ing. Apparently the contrast between
the monetary inflation and the scarcity of
desired commodities was sharp indeed,
indicating an internal economic situation
that was far from healthy. Whether the
policy of deflation and repudiation will
settle the problem of excess money once
and for all remains to be seen. But it
will certainly not overcome the scarcity
of production that is apparently affecting
even the Soviet, which has methods ot
dealing with strikers and the like not
known to civilised countries. The devas-
tation caused by the German invasion
apparently set the economy back a great
deal, while Soviet military preparations
represent a present great drain on
economic resources, and the inefficiency
(by U.S. and British standards) of the pro-
duction machine must be a continual
matter of concern to the Kremlin.
Russia’s economic problem reveals that
the country is suffering from inflation and
underproduction, and that black-
marketeers, tax-evaders and would-be
“capitalists” are there in full force. It is
adopting the usual ruthless means of deal-
ing with those who are out of line with
official policy, but it seems to be making
full use of the occasion to reduce all sav-
ings, regardless of justice. In other
words, the Soviet cynicism and trickery
obvious in foieign affairs are in evidence
also on the home front.
A redundancy of money, following the
war, is a problem right through the world.
Even Mr. Chifley, who belongs to a
political party which for years has
preached that plenty of money distri-
buted ?,mong wage-earners is the solution
of all economic evils, is alarmed about
things as they stand in Australia; hence
instructions 10 the banks to stop expand-
ing credit. In the United States, too,
measures are being considered for deal-
ing with the inflation problem. But in
the United States, anyway, there will be
no thought of bilking the bondholder who
helped to finance the war effort, as has
just been done in Russia.
A more civilised and conscientious
approach to the post-war financial prob-
lem is expected of the democracies. In-
flation has not been so great as in the
Soviet, but it is serious. Probably the
first'hurdle to overcome in Australia is
the prevention of further inflation occur-
ring in Government Budgets themselves.
The second is to get wage-earners back
to full production in spite of Communist
treachery, with elimination of the army
of deadheads now impeding recovery in
the Government service.
More capital is wanted by N.Z. Forest
Products, Ltd., Maoriland’s largest com-
pany, but how much or when isn’t known
yet. Chairman David Henry couldn’t
tell shareholders much at the annual meet-
ing in Auckland in mid-December, be-
yond the obvious that “substantial funds”
must be raised for new mills and plant.
Present capital is £6,203,065. Three mil-
lions might be the cost of the programme
outlined by Henry in August, with paper-
production as a planned key enterprise.
While overseas markets beckon, the com-
pany has no sales problems; its hurdle
is on the production front, where demands
for more timber, more pulp and more
pulp-products keep present mills and
organisation up to concert-pitch. Export
development, the co.’s main objective,
can’t be pushed far until output is a
lot higher. A new move in 1948 will
be the building of a multi-wall bag plant,
to begin operating next June. In April a
pulp-and-paper expert from Scandinavia
will arrive to help found a pulp mill.
Fire-protection measures have been
strengthened in the forest areas, under
wide powers granted since the Taupo dis-
trict was badly swept near the co.’s plan-
tations a few years ago. If shareholders
ask how long they’ll have to wait for divs.,
that is something they must guess, for
M.L.’s Government, which nets £50,000
i annually in taxes while profits (at record
levels) are only £37 J 872, doesn’t leave
much in the pool.
I * * * *
Lennon’s Hotel, Brisbane, was sold by
City Mutual Life, on Nov. 6 to a new
| co. for £360,000 cash. The co., Lennon’s
i Hotel, Ltd., has issued 235,000 £1 ords.
1 and. 150,000 5 p.c. £1 prefs., making total
I paid capital £385,000. The City Mutual
Life subscribed for a large part of the
1 capital, and later disposed of 220,000
I ords. at 245. each and 30,000 prefs. at par.
i Profits were disclosed at £51,178 for the
1 year 1945, and at £55,525 for 1946, sub-
| ject to taxes in each case. A p.c. div.
on the ords. is suggested on published in-
' formation, which would give a yield of
1 6i p.c. at 245. a share. v
* * * *
i It was announced last week that
l Thomas Owen and Co. (Aust), Ltd., was
. being formed to set up in paper-manu-
' facturing at Ballarat (Vic.). Capital of
1 £1,500,000 will be half in ords., half
, 5 p.c. prefs., and the latter only will be
• offered for subscription in Australia,
I * * * *
Tin has gone to £5lO sterling in
• London, the highest price ever estab-
j lished, and it compares witli £437
, sterling previously. The Australian price
• is £515 in Australian money, or £122
| below the Australian equivalent of the
London price. Output of Malayan mines
' is recovering.


>5
b
■<2*B me
m
10« n
Ideal (or private or hire boats, the "Seasprite" will fit snugly
into the boot of your car for travelling. Weighing only 40 lbs.,
the motor is easily carried with its built-in carrying handle. Simple
controls and easy starting are combined with solid power - and
you get 5 hours of "trouble-free'’ pleasure boating per gallon.
Enjoy a really Distinctive holiday with a ’’Seasprite".
3-3 HORSE-POWER-WATER-COOLED
LIGHTWEIGHT 40 LBS*
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
inspection Invited
Terms available - Deposit
£2310 0 and 16' Weekly
over 18 Months _,
CJ
69/o
INCLUDING
SALES TA*
: SS
AUSTRALIAN MARINE
'ENGINE C? PUL”
59-63 it utmost st
FOR FULL MECHPNICfIL SPECIFICATIONS
WRITE OR COLL
is a
grand cigarette for
all occasions-
Capstan’s own blend
of fine Virginia
leaf
be e
\
That’s why it’s always
TIME FOR A CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S. FAVOURITE CIGARETTE'
cannot
quailed.
-
SeOD-6.47
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Concert.
With a few notable exceptions in the
way of rich human comedy, Russian
humor is generally heavily obvious.
Russian satire is similarly affected, and the
back of an axe is a delicate weapon com-
pared with it. Gogol’s “The Inspector
General” is no exception—fts satire of
bureaucrats and corruption and bribery
is as blunt as a blackjack and its humor
is equally obvious —so Doris Fitton’s In-
dependents at North Sydney could not
have done better than play it as a boister-
ous farce. Charles Casperson is the
Mayor, the head of a band of village
officials, all steeped in bribery and cor-
ruption and all terrified by the impend-
ing visit of a Government inspector,
travelling incognito. Casperson shows an
excellent appreciation of the role and
of the values of the play, and sustains
the figure of the Mayor at a humorous,
lively and farcical level, never quite tum-
bling. over into incoherent abandon, as
did Ronald Frazer’s Hlestakov, the penni-
less young clerk who is mistaken for the
inspector and feted and bribed to the
repletion of his stomach and his pocket.
The rest of a large cast play their parts
in the same vein as Casperson’s, making
it an entertaining and interesting, if
slightly noisy, performance.
* * *
In Melbourne, at the Union Theatre
of the University, the Tin Alley Players
are presenting Andre Obey’s “Noah,”
apparently intended to portray what
happens to genius when it makes its in-
frequent appearance in this wicked world.
Having had premonitions of a flood,
Noah builds secretly in the forest an ark,
which, in the T.A.P.’s presentation,
looked rather like a hencoop, and when
his sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth, dis-
cover the incongruous-looking object,
they naturally think that their poor old
man has gone clean off his rocker. When
he further proceeds to stock the vessel
with assorted animals they are convinced
he is demented, and their raucous laughter
brings the villagers on the scene, who
promptly want to stone him. A down-
pour of rain induces his family to enter
the ark, though part of the inducement
is that Noah’s sons have been invited to
bring their girl friends with them, the
old man having foreseen the necessity
to repopulate an unpeopled world after
the deluge has subsided.
Forty days later all the wicked have
been drowned, Noah’s sanctuary is float-
ing on an uninterrupted waste of waters,
and its commander is dreaming of the
Golden Age he is going to establish when
his bark gets down again to terra firma.
There is an effective dramatic moment
when Noah, who is more in touch with
his instincts than his children, learns of
the vicinity of land by the behavior of
the livestock. When the ark grounds on
Mount Ararat, however, Noah’s dream of
a Golden Age is shattered. There is a
battle for supremacy between his off-
spring, and finally each goes off with his
respective girl friend, leaving the old man
completely bereft of everything except
his wife and the rainbow, which indicates
that there will be droughts, floods, con-
vention-ridden people and geniuses to be
stoned, in perpetual recurrence.
The performance brought forth a pro-
digious display of effort by the Tin Alley
Players, but the impression given was that,
from the spectacular point of view, a
better medium would have been the
talkies. Keith Macartney played the great
savior of mankind less like a man of
destiny than a suburban curate. Myra
Roper made Mrs. Noah <a bit more real,
but if there were three more selfconscious
actors in the cast than Tony Riddell,
David Bradley and Alven Powell, as
Noah’s sons, they were Shirley Davis,
Dorothea Collopy and Leonie Gibson as
their respective spouses.
* * * *
If a tarantula had bitten Melbourne’s
youthful population, it couldn’t have gone
madder on the ballet than it is at present.
There are dozens of societies and teachers
whose pupils and members shake the
dust from the rafters of the lofts of old
stables in the suburbs and the frenzy has
produced regiments of Nijinskys, Baron-
ovas, of choreographers, composers and
designers. There are as many schools
of ballet as there are in paining and
about as much agreement among them.
Some of them are followers of the
Russian tradition, others of the Hindu
temple dancer Shivaram, Ted Shawn and
the late Isadora Duncan. Five companies
have lately done their stuff in various
theatres about the city, and the interest
is likely to be indefinitely sustained by the
Ballet Rambert season, still going strong
at the Princess.
* * * *
The Brahms Festival at St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Melbourne, ended in a blaze
of glory with the Requiem that the com-
poser wrote on the death of his mother
according to some, and after the death
of his friend Schumann according to
Others, It was sung by the choir of the
Royal Philharmonics under Dan Hardy’s
baton. Except that the orchestra tended
to overwhelm the singers in some sec-
tions, it was a perfect termination to one
of the finest tournaments of music ever
released in Melbourne.
H*
One of the most entertaining scraps in
Sydney Tivoli’s current “Scrapbook” is
Cy Landry, a comic dancer and singer,
who seems to have developed and
mastered some methods of support and
locomotion all of his own. The nearest
imaginable thing to Mr. Landry is a
trained penguin, but it would take a lot
of training for a penguin, or a human,
to acquire the same comic dexterity.
There is nothing scrappy about the Mas-
sive Twins on the same programme —
their slow, studied display of strength and
agility suggests that they could do any-
thing Wirth’s elephants can do, and do it
more gracefully. Comedians Will
Mahoney and Alec Kellaway, dancers
Cabot and Dresden and Dr. Roy Pickard
with his xylophone fill a few other pages
of the scrapbook, which is lavishly deco-
rated with the Tiv. ballet and the Tiv.
chorus, both of which have little on in
common and wear it very decoratively.
Artbursts.
A, second instalment of the flower
paintings in water color of Miss E.
Margaret Stones is on view at George’s
Galleries, Melbourne. This time they
illustrate the extraordinary variety, ec-
centricity and perversity of the Australian
wildflower, from the bloom of the cow-
itch tree to the black kangaroo paw.
From the botanical cataloguer’s point of
view the show no doubt has importance,
but it has little artistic standing—it bears
the same relationship to art as the dic-
tionary does to writing.
* * * *
The state of anarchy prevailing at the
National Gallery school in Melbourne
since students were allowed to choose
their teachers is faithfully reflected in the
annual exhibition, which, with its sub-
division into Dargie Class, Griffin Class
and Sumner looks for all the world
like a set of pens at the Newmarket sales-
yards. In the pen devoted to the Dargies
there are signs in several still life and
landscapes of observation and a sense of
values. The Griffins are innocent of
either, but present some quaint examples
of interbreeding between the late Bernard
Hall and the newest artistic fashions.
The Sumner yard is reserved for the
five-legged calves and the cows with two
heads, metaphorically speaking.
At the Films.
Sydney Regent and Embassy are
screening a technicolor record of
the Royal wedding. Much of it,
with its pageantry, ceremony and
flashing color, is impressive, but the main
event is rather crowded out by a surfeit
of historical embroidery, commentary
and a too-insistent and obtrusive musical
background. As usual, English light and
weather seem to break the vividness of
technicolor down to something like
naturalness,
* jN * *
Cavaliers shouting “ ’Ray for Charles,”
Roundheads bellowing “Blast , him—
amen,” and holidaying schoolchildren
shrieking with the excitement of it all
make “The Exile,” at Sydney Lyceum, a
definite mastoid-raiser. Although he
uses his foil like a machete, the kids ap-
parently worship Douglas Fairbanks, jnr.,
as the exiled king, and any child in the
metropolitan area with a circular noggin
should head for the hills.
* * * *
“Variety Girl” (Sydney Prince
Edward); Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, Gary
Cooper and a string of Paramount players
crop up in this Comedy musical, which is
threaded on the tenuous story of an aspir-
ing young actress trying to break her way
into the motion-picture business. Some
good comedy, a few light ditties and a
touch or two or satire make it an f.a.q.
entertainer.


Women's Letters
Horn Melbourne
In response to a request by Lady
Dugan, who is Patroness of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital Auxiliaries, a large
number of representative women met to
form an Entertainments Committee in
connection with the Centenary Appeal.
Victor Hurley, who presided at the meet-
ing and welcomed Lady Dugan, explained
that the hospital had decided that the
best way of celebrating its centenary next
year was to try to raise the £lOO,OOO
necessary to complete the north wing and
so accommodate an extra 150 beds. Mrs.
W. L. Russell Clarke was elected presi-
dent of the committee, with Mrs. Victor
Hurley deputy - president. Melba’s
daughter, Mrs. George Armstrong her
royal-blue suit and ice-blue chiffon blouse
went with a royal-blue straw hat swathed
in ice-blue tulle—will arrange a concert
fob which Mrs. Sydney Myer has offered
her home. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell will
arrange another of her gala matinees.
President of Auxiliaries, Mrs. Roy
Chambers, is chairman of the ball com-
mittee. The ball will be held in the St.
Kilda Town Hall on March 5. A man-
nequin parade and a party drive are other
attractions listed. Lady Clapp and Lady
Herring, Mesdames Clive Steele, Essing-
ton Lewis, A. A. Dunstan, Edmund
Alcock, J. D. G. Medley were others at
the meeting.
Helen McDonald, a recently-returned
traveller, has leaped with renewed vigor
into work connected with the Myer
Women’s Voluntary Service Association.
This band of women have adopted 65
patients at the Heidelberg Military Hos
pital, and in five years they have spent
£2600 on comforts for the men. This
sum was collected from the staff of the
Myer Emporium in pennies and three-
pences. Flowers for the wards, cigarettes
and cakes were taken every week to the
hospital. Every birthday has meant a
special cake. This Christmas every man
will receive a special parcel and there will
be a huge Christmas cake. The wards,
of course, will be decorated with loving
care.
Guests at the luncheon party given by
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell at Menzies had an
opportunity of meeting three young Aus-
tralians who have just returned from a
trip to England, America and the Con-
tinent. They were Margaret Raitt, who
set off her navy suit with a small hat, the
crown of which was fashioned of Royal
Stuart tartan; Celia Grassick, also m
navy, and Ruth Fenner, of Sydney, who
has been studying, kindergarten worse in
England, America and Norway. Ruth
inaugurated the Kindergarten of the Air
for the Norwegian Kindergarten Lmon.
It all began when a film critic, a radio
announcer, a representative of the film
industry and a theatre man began having
luncheon each Monday at a hotel where
the main item on the menu was flounder.
The party grew, and thus began the
Flounders’ Club, which has just held its
first big function and Christmas party at
the home of Mrs. H. Youlden, of Ascot
Vale The 200-odd members and friends
were received by Keith Manzie, who is
the first president of the club. Mrs. Youl-
den wore a black crepe frock with a
short matching jacket. Her daughter
Joy’s black silk crepe frock featured a
kilted fish-tail back; over it she wore a
short white Toreador jacket, heavily em-
broidered with grapes and leaves. With
Ron Finlay was his wife ; her black crepe
frock was ornamented with gold studs.
Frank Martin and his wife were there,
she in a black beaded frock and pink-
rose-trimmed black hat. Louisa Stagoll,
secretary of the club, successfully allied
black frock and tulle. Mrs. John Masters
chose a grey knife-pleated model frock ;
Mrs. McCumsky, who came with her
medico husband, was in grey tailored suit
and matching top coat.
Trinity College Chapel was the venue
for the wedding of Patricia, younger
daughter of Mr. Edward Joyce of East
Malvern and the late Mrs. Joyce, and Dr,
Harold Harvie, younger son of Mr. R.
J Harvie, Rutherglen, and the late Mrs.
Harvie. The bride, who was given away
by her father, wore a dinner gown of
Elizabeth-blue crepe; the skirt slim-fit-
ting. the waistline swathed. Silver bead
embroideries highlighted the front of the
bodice, and her small cyclamen feather
flower hat was trimmed with a shoulder-
length veil and matched by long suede
gloves A bouquet of pale mauve and
pink gladioli was carried. The bride was
unattended ; the bridegroom had Squad-
ron-Leader Percy Northrop, R.A.F., as
best man. Later a dinner party at which
only relatives of the bride and bridegroom
were present was held at the Florentine.
Among the guests were Mr, R. J. Harvie,
Mr. and Mrs. Donovan Joyce, Sydney-
sider Jim Joyce and the bride’s sister
Molly.
Lady Knox, hostess at a late-afternoon
party at Greenknowe, received her
guests in a grey ensemble an
white hat and accessories. She was
assisted by her daughter Rosemary (Mrs
Robert Lindsay), whose jacket suit was of
white-spotted navy. Among the guests
was Mrs. G. Vasey, whose black suit was
worn with a natural straw hat trimmed
with one large cyclamen ‘flower. With
her was Mrs. Walter Carnegie, who as
President of the Ministering Children s
League was booked to entertain 60
children the next day at luncheon befoie
they left for a holiday at the League s
seaside home. Peggy Mollard wore a
mist-blue crepe frock and large white
coarse straw hat banded in navy satin
ribbon. Mrs. H. F. Creswick’s ensemble
was flower-patterned, the tonings grey
and white. Mrs. Russell Barrett wore a
striking amber-toned straw hat trimmed
with two deeper brown feather quills with
her black frock.
Jean Campbell, portrayed here by
Broothorn camera, has been with the
Melbourne Little Theatre for some time
as actress and publicity ofliccr. Recipient
of a Commonwealth literary grant, Jean
will “go into smoke” this coming year
and write a novel. That, of course, will
be no novelty to her —she already has
had several published. There is, how-
ever, nothing of the “blue stocking” about
Jean; a smart dresser and a witty and
charming person, her favorite recreation
is visiting art shows.
Huge bowls of flowers and handsome
floral pieces were set against the new
furnishings and carpets in the foyers of
the Regent Theatre, for the gala opening.
Mrs. Victor Cornaga’s was one of | the
outstanding in a galaxy of beautiful
gowns ; hers was fashioned of grey chitton,
and the deep off-the-shoulder line of her
gown was threaded with cyclamen velvet
ribbon. With Gordon Coulter was his
wife, whose gown of grey crepe featured
a draped skirt, Mrs. Iris Clarke contrasted
her frock of pinky-beige crepe with a
small brown hat trimmed with brown
plumes. Mrs. Charles Davis’s blue suit
was worn with a natural straw hat
trimmed with royal-blue velvet ribbon.
A short black dinner frock was chosen
by Mrs. A. L. Walters; the short sleeves
were formed of mist-blue chiffon and a
ruching of the same material outlined
the neckline. Mrs. Olive Thring’s even-
ing gown was of black lace; Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, who was with her son
lan, chose a dinner gown and matching
jacket of black crepe.
Balletomanes continue to throng the
Princess for the delectable terpsichorean
fare supplied by Madame Rambert’s
company. Among them were Dr. Mc-
Adam and his wife, whose formal black
dinner gown was worn under an aqua-
blue jacket sparkling with silver bead
and sequin embroidery. A small black
hat with a cluster of pastel-pink roses was
worn by Hilda Corbett with her black
sheer frock, the skirt featuring impressed
pleats and a yoked bodice, with short
frill sleeves. Hazel Raff’s crepe frock
was delphinium-blue ; her small black hat
had a chou of tulle set in the front of the
narrow brim. Margaret Saker’s cocktail
suit of fine black cloth had sequins
trimming the lapels ; her lime-green hat
was trimmed with pastel-pink and green
spiky feathers. With Bill Fendick was
his wife, whose beige frock was fastened
with crystal buttons set in gold. Madame
Rambert herself sat with Brian Jones, of
the British Council, the headmaster of
Geelong Grammar School, J. Darling, and
Mrs. Darling.
From Sydney
There can be no doubt in the minds of
the men of the U.S. submarine Razor-
back that Sydney was pleased to see
them and their vessel. Every day the
wharf alongside which she was breathing
the fresh air was thronged with would-be
visitors. One wondered looking at the
number of them, if they all got on in one
day, or if the ones left over queued into
first position for the next morning. The
men had only a few days in Sydney, but
the Australian-American Association got
in a Christmas cocktail party for the
sub.’s commander and officers. The
affair, complete with Christmas-tree and
Christmas cake, was at the Savarin, and
Captain Leonce Lajaunee and his stal-
warts made still another host of friends
for U.S.A. President of the A.A.A.
Conrad Horley and Mrs. Horley received
the guests. Mrs. Florence Taylor, presi-
dent of the women’s section of the asso-
ciation, presented Mrs. Horley with
flowers and received a dazzling bouquet
herself.
Happiness unlimited smiled and
laughed and burnished the Town Hall
last Wednesday night. The Legacy
Christmas-tree was in bloom, apd 2000
children were there to enjoy it its shin-
ing and laden brightness. There were
5000 toys and 200 Legatees busy hand-
ing them out. And then there was an
irresistible programme of fun and en-
trancement. Between half-past six and a
quarter to eight a group of good-natured
artists from the Tivoli popped around
and put on star performances. There was
Clem Dawe, the star of the Mother
Goose panto now at the Tiv., and with
him his happy companion Eric Edgley.
Aiding and abetting them were Bonzo
the Dog (Alfred Latell, famed American
animal impersonator), Pansy the Horse
(the Diamond brothers) and Magnolia
the Goose, who is in life Ernest Shand.
Cy Landry left “Scrap Book” at the Tiv.
and tore around to do a special turn.
British film-star Jean Simmons, who
goes off to Fiji to be the star in “Blue
Lagoon,” makes as good an impression
in real life as she does on the screen.
During her stay in Sydney she has made
innumerable friends by her young
charm, her pretty, impulsive ways and
her gentle air. Jean was guest of honor
during last week at a lunch party given
by the Ken Pittmans in the Australia
Hotel. Mr. Pittman represents a British
firm whose fabrics make up Jean’s ward-
robe in “Black Narcissus.” The film-
star, who is just 18, has a long list of
successes to her name, notably her work
in “Great Expectations,”
Wassail in the form of cocktails for
the adult, ice-cream for junior, has been
flowing with Niagara-like volume. The
Navy, of course, had to do things on
aircraft-carrier dimensions. It was host
to 1050 budding bosuns and admirals and
their little sisters at the Trocadero. There
were two Christmas-trees, one for the
boys and ope for the girls. Santa Claus
greeted the youngsters. There were
blithe Harlequins and an orchestra. And
there was ice-cream and more ice-cream.
It was. a good party.
Victoria Barracks wasn’t to be outdone
by the Navy. Their Santa came by air
and had a toy in his pack for each
youngster —every one of the 1100 or so
of them. The Women Pioneers also had
their party. Dr. and Mrs. Grant Linde-
man entertained at the Royal Sydney
Golf Club. The Alexis Alberts were
hosts ; so were the Roland Fosters. Guest
of honor at the Grant Lindeman “do”
was the Countess of Kenmare, who is
Dr. Lindeman’s sister. Dr. George Dun-
can and his wife renewed their pre-war
practice of an outsize Sunday-before-
Christmas party. This was held in their
pleasant Georgian house at Rand wick,
and, the rain holding off, guests strolled
about in the garden at the back of the
house. This afternoon the Yacht Squad-
ron at Kirribilli goes all festive with its
Christmas Eve revel.
George Patterson, chairman of the Red
Cross Social Service Council, made g
practical suggestion at last week’s Divi-
sional Council meeting of the Society.
Mr. Patterson is just back from England
and Europe, and he had a story to tell of
the clothes the “comfortably off” Britisher
is wearing that shocks the sensibilities.
His and her clothes are threadbare, turned
and remade, and the like can be said of
every grade downwards. Mr. Patterson s
suggestion is that with each parcel to
Britain woollen socks and underwear be
included. Also that the suit you are find-
ing a bit too shabby could be packed and
sent to England. The same applies to
shoes. This writer had a letter from a
friend in Sussex not long ago. The writer
is young, and in spite of everything light-
hearted. “I made up the piece of
heavenly material you sent into under-
wear —all I have is only fit for the in-
cinerator.” During his English visit Mr.
Patterson visited St. Dunstan’s, the East
Grimwade Hospital, and the Lord Roberts
Hospital.
Last Monday there was great excite-
ment when the members of the junior
social committee of the N.S.W. Institute
of the Deaf and Dumb and the Blind
Children met together at Romano’s for
the end-of-the-year lunch party. During
the year these bright and attractive girls
raised £lOOO for the Institute, and the
glorious moment at Monday’s get-together
was the handing over of a cheque for this
amount by president Shirley Bower. Mr.
E. Minniss, who received the gift on be-
half of the Institute, was the host of the
party.
Paris House, one of the gayest play-
ing grounds of an older Sydney, is now
the Pioneer Club, There was great
house-warming last week and the gover-
nor, Lieut.-General John Northcott, gave
vice-regal blessing. Hundreds of guests
crowded into the renewed premises —
brightly dressed women among them.
They made the most of this opportunity
to see just how cosy their menfolk made
themselves in their own haunts, ror,
believe it or not, women may be home-
makers, but they are not club-makers.
The men beat the sex every time —maybe
they have more money to spend. Presi-
dent of the club, which now has over 400
members whose forebears dug roots in
this State before 1825, is knight Alfred
Davidson.
This may be the season of goodwill
to men, but David Jones’s hasn’t been
showing much of it to the gangster and
the thief. All the antique silver, so glit-
tering and superior in the glass cases of
their gallery, is too big for the cfash-and-
carry gentry to get away with easily. For
instance, how could anyone not wearing
a zoot suit hope to sneak the 100-guinea
silver salver unnoted from the room?
Silver coffee and tea services, too, would
be hard to camouflage. If you haven’t
already bought your dear a present from
this really authentic collection you have
still today to do so. Maybe some of
the Sheffield plate, the Derby, the Coal-
port, the Rockingham, the Staffordshire
will be left, though on the first day the.
buying was very willing. The Museum,
by the way, bought, among other num-
bers, the one this Letter lost its heart to:
the Bow group of two boys, one seated
astride a goat, each with garlands of
flowers. Was it a peace offering one
Christmas nearly 200 years ago?
The month we are travelling through
will go down in nursery-rhyme history as
The wettest December
That man can remember.
From a fashion point of view the situa-
tion is ironic. For untold summers of
drought and hard brittle sunshine the
women of this State have worn fully-
fashioned shoes, and tiny wisps of hats
perched on top of the head—no shade
for eye or neck at all. But 1947 brought
in the large hat and shoes with so many
pieces cut out they resemble a jig-saw
puzzle, with the female toe and heel
peering through the apertures, bewildered
or complacent. And what sort of summer
have we had? The clouds have lowered,
the rain has poured down with sullen
determination. Large hats have had to be
parked away. But the shoes, heelless and
toeless, flip-flap across the ram-washed
streets. Some girls, as determined as the
weather, even set out from home in
snowy-white platform shoes. Its not
world events that color your outlook these
days. It’s whether you are the kind of
person who loses umbrellas or the kind
of person who finds them.
The J. M. McArthur Hut at the Re-
patriation General Hospital, Concor ,
was opened last Thursday afternoon by
Red Cross chairman A. L. Blythe. Mrs.
McArthur, who has donated the hut, was
not present because of ill-health. The hut
consists of a .large pottery-room with a
kiln and three music-rooms—one tor
practising, one for teaching and one room
for group and community music. Hazei
Perdriau, Red Cross handcraft worker,
who has done a great deal of musical-
therapy research work, will be in charge
of the hut.


THE SERVICE MAN
China Now—Who's Next?
“Ek Dum”: Chinese newspapers re-
port, and a changed note in Moscow
Radio’s announcements tends to confirm
what they say, that Russia is now fully
and actively engaged in strengthening the
Chinese Communist forces'in the North
with a view to an all-out attack on
Chiang Kai-shek’s regime early in 1948.
There has never been any doubt about
the fact that the Chinese Communist out-
fit, “Government” and army, was a
Russian baby. That was made clear as
far back as 1939 by Manuilsky at a Rus-
sian Communist party conference.
The Communists have been armed by
Russia with Manchurian-Japanese arms
and with industrial equipment which was
the real property of the Allies in general,
more particularly Nationalist China,
which these arms are designed to defeat
and turn into another U.S.S.R. province.
The Kremlin sullenly claims that all
these arms and material, taken in a few
days’ bloodless advancing, are the natural
spoils of war of the Red Army, whose
standards in such matters are those of
Asiatic barbarians like Genghis Khan,
For good measure the Russians have
kept in captivity Japanese prisoners-of-
war who must run into hundreds of
thousands and whose whereabouts are
unknown. Russia, in common with the
other Powers, was bound to send them
home at the earliest possible moment.
For all the world knows, most of these
Japs may now be Communist troops.
Contrary to popular belief it is very diffi-
cult to tell some types of Japanese from
Chinese, and the races themselves are
occasionally baffled in distinguishing
which is which on sight.
A Moscow Conference
However, the basic story now is that
in Moscow last month Russians and Com-
munists reached a six-point agreement ~
which means that the Kremlin summoned
home its Chinese Tito and gave him his
orders and told him what would be re-
quired of him.
The first point calls for an expedi-
tionary force of 200,000 and a labor
force of 1,000,000 to be sent to Europe
in the event of war in the Balkans and
in the Middle East. And war in the Bal-
kans and/or the Middle East is quite on
the cards after the winter, or perhaps be-
fore it is over.
Tito has massed troops on the borders
of Trieste and it has been suggested in
more than one quarter that he proposes
to seize that city. Moreover, it seems
clear that the U.S.S.R-. intends to insist
on extra-territorial rights in Austria and
retaining two-thirds of its oilfields —one
of the causes of the Foreign-Ministers’-
conference deadlock. These moves alone
are enough to produce war in certain
circumstances, apart from Moscow’s con-
stant organisation for insurrection in a
number of countries which have been
trying to give Russia their friendship ever
since 1941.
The Anglo-Saxon peoples have shown
great tolerance of Russian belligerence.
But their patience is not limitless, and if
matters continue as they are, with Rus-
sian encroachment growing every day, a
halt will have to be called.
The second point of the agreement at
Moscow is that, should there be a world
war, Russia would have supreme com-
mand over the Far Eastern area.
Russia is reported to have claimed
priority in exploitation of minerals in
the North and to have joined the Chinese
Communists in a bloc to oust the
Americans.
A Chinese Intelligence Bureau —a sort
of Far Eastern Cominform —is to be
created, no doubt with linkage with the
new body to be formed in Malaya, in
which Mr. Ernie Thornton is deeply
interested.
Finally, a Communist Air Force is to
come into existence.
Offensive in Manchuria
The leakage of this news was followed
immediately by the development of a
vigorous Communist offensive in Man-
churia. It cut the Chinese Government
lines of communication, including the
Peiping-Hankow railway in three places.
There was fierce fighting for nearly a
week in the vicinity of the important
junction of Chinchow.
The American and Canadian authorities
take the position seriously. The Canadian
Cabinet has suddenly authorised the ex-
port of war material to China, and a
shipload is already on its way.
In Washington, Lieut.-General Wede-
meyer, who recently made a six-weeks
official investigation of the situations in
China and Korea, urged the Senate
Appropriation Committee to give imme-
diate military supplies to the Chinese
Government to fight Communism.
Fought it will have to be, or the Allies
may find Communist Chinese sitting at
the peace table.
Seeds of Asian War
Meapwhile the seeds of a continental
war are being sown at the other end of
Asia. On December 17 a 10-day meet-
ing of the Premiers of the Arab League
closed with the issue of a communique
which attacked the British Government
for having failed to keep the peace in
Palestine, and for having allowed the
Palestine Jews to form an army.
U.N.O. was accused of having allotted
the most fertile Arab land to Jewish
Palestine, thus placing 500,000 Arabs,
some of whom are Christianised, “under
the Jewish yoke.”
No outline was given of the plans of
“Seven bells and all's Well!"
the League, but there was a grim signi-
ficance about the remark of Nuri Pasha,
of Irak, T. E. Lawrence’s old friend, that
partition might lead to a Ho}y War as
long as that of the Crusades.
Whatever the Arab States’ martial
ability, there is little doubt that Palestine
without the British will be in deeper
turmoil than with them. When the
Tommies leave conditions in the Middle
East will resemble those in China.
The Kavieng Murderers.
After a fortnight’s trial, the Japanese
ruffians who committed the Kavieng
murders in March, 1944, were sentenced
by an Australian War Crimes Tribunal
at Hong Kong on Dec. 16.
The 23 Europeans whom they killed,
including some aged Germans of the old
regime and a boy of 14, were taken out
on the Kavieng jetty by order of Rear-
Admiral Ryukichi and done to death by
ju-jitsu methods so that they would make
no sound.
Afterwards their bodies were weighted
with concrete and dropped into the sea.
The barbarous destruction of these inno-
cent civilians was motived by a desire to
prevent their being rescued in the event
of an Allied attack on Kavieng, which
was believed to be imminent.
Rear-Admiral Tamura Ryukichi, who
freely admitted giving the execution order
entirely on his own initiative and without
reference to his high command, was
sentenced to be hanged.
Lieutenant-Commander Mori Kyoshi,
described by Major A. D, Mackay, the
prosecutor, as “the arch villain of the
piece,” received a sentence of 20
years’ imprisonment—with hard labor,
it is to be hoped. Commander,.
Yoshino Shozo was given a 15-years
sentence and Lieutenant Suzuki Shozo,
“the actual slaughterman,” who carried
out the orders of his superiors with a hor-
rible gusto, one of 12 years. Lieut. Mochi-
zuki Hichitaro and Petty-Officer Horigu-
chi Yoshio were sentenced to seven years
and four years respectively.
It must have been hard for the Court
to restrain itself from blotting out the
whole gang.
A New Age in Missiles.
“Ek Dum”: Three years after their
first appearance on the scene something
is beginning to emerge about the real
nature of the supersonic and rocket
weapons invented and used by the
Germans.
As experiments proceed with these
weapons it becomes apparent what a
narrow escape the Allies had in Europe.
While in most things both Britain and
the U.S.A. were far ahead of the Ger-
mans (the only people on the enemy side
who produced anything which could be
even remotely described as new), in
rocket and guided weapons the Germans
were reaching out far beyond ourselves.
Could they have developed the atom
bomb in 1943 the war would soon have
been over. But this was not their main
chance. Some of their weapons, their
supersonic ones particularly, were of such
a nature that, had they been applied in
maximum use, nothing but the atom
bomb could have dealt with their attack.
The Vis and V2s by the time war ended
had had their day in their existing form
and were being refined for newer pur-
poses. Other rockets and gliders were
coming up.
VI provided a comparatively easy prob-
lem to defence. It was, in effect, a robot
aeroplane, flying at normal speeds on a
rectilinear course, not very accurate,
catchable by a fighter when detected,
limited in range and fresh meat to prop-
erly grouped ack-ack. Once the British
authorities had been able to formalise a
procedure, more than 92 per cent, of all
arriving were shot down. But the VI of
the future, developed along the lines on
which changes in it are pending, will
be very different.
It will emerge as a weapon, possibly
with a ram-jet motor, which will travel at
going on for twice the speed of sound
-and, radio-guided, carry an atomic war-
head anything up to 2000 miles.
V 2 is a cat of another color, It is, as
was shown in these pages when it was
first used, a horror about 14 tons in
weight and 40 feet long—a sort of rocket
torpedo. Its speed ranged up to 3500
miles an hour. No counter to it was de-
vised. No single one out of the 3000-odd
fired against London and Antwerp was
ever shot down, or indeed detected until
it reached its landing point.
Not a shot, in fact, was fired against it.
Its high angle of fall and terrific speed
made ack-ack defences powerless against
it. If it had been accurate there would
have been no limit to what it could have
done. But it was not accurate within a
range of an area about two by eight miles.
Had V 2 had an atomic warhead, as it is
likely to have in the next era of its prac-
tical use, this would not have mattered.
Even in its pristine form, with a normal
one-ton warhead, a sufficient number
fired at a city would have destroyed that
city.
V2s in the new era will probably be
replaced to “step” rockets, atom-armed,
with an unlimited range, a speed well
beyond the possible limits of man-
managed aircraft and with homing de-
vices for accuracy.
Launching technique will be developed
from a naval viewpoint and run with the
production of the fast, long-ranging sub-
marine. The V 2 type needs only a very
sketchy sort of launching platform, and
could be fired from the deck of a large
submarine with ease.
Imagine conditions which would pro-
vide a flotilla of submarines, capable of
crossing the Pacific submerged, at speeds
up to 30 knots, each armed with a couple
of atomic-warhead rockets with a range
up to 1500 miles and speeds up to 3500
miles an hour. It is possible on this basis
to envision the kind of attack on a city
like Sydney during a real Armageddon
coming within measurable time.
Round-the-World Bombers
Larger aircraft, too, can play their
part in a way which was novel even at
the end of World War 11. Then it might
have been said accurately that gravity-
bombing comprised 90 per cent, of all
bombing.
The glide bomb had come into use —
first, as usual, with the Germans and
their satellites, pressed by necessity into
using it prematurely.
By 1945 the Allies had a very effective
glide bomb in readiness for general use,
and they needed to have it. Gravity-
bombing was within measurable distance
of extinction except in a limited way.
The Germans had, in actual experi-
mental use, ap anti-aircraft four-ton
finned and winged rocket which looked
like a giant h.e. bomb or land-mine. It
was fitted with radio control and a “hom-
ing” device and known as the “water-
fall,” from the nature of its wake when
it was launched almost perpendicularly
into the air.
It was the opinion of the U.S. mission
which studied it that, within a matter of
months, it might have driven Allied
bombers out of the air of Europe.
However, it came too late for the last
war, though early enough for develop-
ment for the next, to provide one of the
reasons why, in future, bomb-launching
is likely to be remote.
Bomber range for all practical pur-
poses is now unlimited. The American
836 and others under development car?
fly to any part of the globe with a 10*
ton bomb load and fly home again.
Speeds will develop tremendously, and
long-range detection will have to go far
to catch up with the needs of defence
against such flexible monsters.
A Jules Verne War
The kind of attack on Australia to be
envisioned for the near future—meaning
the next 20 years—is an approach by a
squadron of ships, large or sub-
marines halfway across the Pacific or to
the region of, say, Singapore. Then in
the case of approach from the Pacific a
six- or seven-hour flight from the Behring
Sea coast. Then the launching of long-
distance rockets aimed accurately and
guided by radio to Sydney or Brisbane.
The counter to this is not foreseeable
short of a blanket sea patrol.
Jules Verne might have thought all
this so fantastic that he would not have
dared to dream it. But it is on the
threshold, along with bacterial warfare,
and even the germ of defence against it
is only hypothetical.
It seems to lie somewhere in the direc-
tion of radio diversion of enemy missiles
or of their premature explosion or pre-
vention of explosion; this, primarily
combined with huge manpower specially
trained and armed for reconnaissance
and for civil defence and ground usage
in the final phases.
V
At Cockatoo Dock, Sydney, on Decem-
ber 20 Mrs. Riordan, wife of the Minister
for the Navy, launched the new 2300-
ton Battle-class destroyer Tobruk. No-
body associated with the Tobruk epic
was identified among those who figured
in the proceedings.
* * * ' »
“Nobby II”; Scarcely noticed by the
press, the development of the long-dist-
ance submarine is an important phase
in the advance of the technique of war.
The two’ thiqgs which the submarine has
hitherto lacked have been high speed and
long-term submersibility. The Germans
advanced greatly in both matters during
the last war, but not enough. The
Schnorkel breathing apparatus allowed the
pests to stay under water considerably
longer than hitherto, but under-water
speeds capable of keeping pace with ves-
sels of the Queen Elizabeth type were
still well out of reach at the end of
World War 11. With new types of pro-
pulsion speed should be capable of great
increases, and the world has reason to
congratulate itself that detection methods
are keeping pace with lethal improve-
ments. If detection conditions were still
those of 1914-18 the submarine would be
the on© method by which an atom bomb
could be introduced clandestinely into
harbors. Let the imagination run riot
with the possibilities if the Jap midgets
had left a time-set atom bomb behind
in Sydney Harbor in June, 1942.


CHEFS EVERYWHERE USE LEA * PERRINS
ijwi
r
Qr.
%
vScS;
a i i i 1 1 A I
Tkc Soiice with u Secret
51®
n
■P^r
w
I/V
1
»Sw;
„,. . ;4JS*Srass*H
•• :g ',air
Iffll
*(js
SI
Sliii
MflBE
»c«
s®«
*£»
'///"*''
iff
la
“Knowledge is of two kinds, we eitlier Kave it ourselves or we
know wKere to find it from Samuel JoKnson.
A shrewd analysis from the lips of
the immortal Docton--true enough
in the calm of pre-industrial England
and of greater significance in these
days of specialised knowledge.
We at Bahcock are specialists in our
knowledge of thermal engineering.
Our beginnings were rooted in the
pioneering days of the simple hand-
fed, low temperature and pressure
boiler. In the passing decades, our
engineers followed the path of world
industrial expansion, studied the
behaviour of foreign fuels, climates
and operating conditions, installed
Babcock boilers throughout the
world and. supported by the research
of chemists, metallurgists and en-
in Babcock laboratories,
amassed the knowledge which en-
BABCOCK '& WILCOX
LIMED
STEAM ENGINEERS -INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
abled us to develop the modern high
temperature and pressure boiler to
an unprecedented peak of economy
and efficiency.
This knowledge is available to solve
your specific steam problems; we
shall be happy to co-operate with
you.
t ooking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
ty/ilcox are planning to put to use ike
newly acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities , . .
work to common purpose with our
British organisation , , , maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
T.'. rnth lIIS ROVED r Ilf n -moor* boiler
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
First leg of the Summer double, the Villiers
went to Barnsley—a popular win, though he
was well out in the betting at 14 to 1. ine
old fellow (rising eight) has been trying to
win one of the richer mile handicaps tor
going closest when third in Abbeville s Don-
caster. ...»
Despite his owner’s repeated statements that
Native Son would not run on a heavy track,
the Veilmond gelding took his place in the
field and started favorite; indicating the state
of the track, a three-year-old .hide earlier
in the afternoon was won by Fire Fox (y.
Moore) in 1.444. Possibly connections of Native
Son were influenced by Saturday’s extreme heat.
One runner in the Villiers, Dutchman, pulled
up suffering from heat-stroke.
A powerful finisher, Barnsley has usually
been allowed to drop well back in the early
stages of his races, but in the Villiers J.
Thompson had him well up with them all the
way. The slow pace permitted him to stay
near the leaders without expending his finishing
sting, and when called on he took charge below
the distance to run out an easy winner. Active
Service finished strongly into second place;
Piccolo landed third money after being promi-
nent throughout. Both these should b'e early
winners.
Owned, bred and trained (privately near New-
castle) by E. F. Smith, Barnsley is a bay
gelding by the Limond horse Limarch from
Turilawa. He was handicapped at 7.8, which
is somewhere near the average carried by past
winners of the race.
J. Thompson had a most successful day,
landing a hat-trick of .winners. After the
Villiers he took the 10-furlongs December
Handicap on Skip Bomber, then the Welter
on Killiecrankie, who .drifted surprisingly in
the betting. Skip Bomber (showing much
improved form) isn’t in the Summer Cup; he
was, however, followed ‘home by three Cup
candidates: New Cashmere, Sweet Chime and
last year’s winner, Haxton.
The December Nursery saw Grey Nurse,
who looks another Nizam’s Ring, lump 9.2
on the heavy track and easily defeat a good
field of two-year-old fillies; finishing third
behind So Sweet,_ the Midstream filly Flume
looks a coming winner. The Juvenile for colts
and geldings went to Danger (A. Mulley), a
Parnassus colt having his first run and showing
gameness to just head Bonnie Prince.
In the 12-furlongs Encourage the Harinero
colt Bolivia (N. McGrowdie) went so wide on
the turn that leger patrons were ducking for
cover, but, gaining the firmer going wide out,
he ran home a good winner from Lyndale and
Mazzara. Prince Mohican was a promising
third behind Fire Fox and Royal Lad in the
Three-year-old.
■ * * * *
Heavy rain and a corresponding track at
Moonee Valley on Saturday promised plenty
of upsets: actually no real rough ’uns came
home and two favorites won.
Recognised as generally unreliable but a
dabster in the mud, old Mokan (W. Richards)
went out at threes for the 13-furlongs St.
Vincent’s Handicap; the Porter money was
again lavished on Black Law (at 6 to 1) and
again left in. Void tried to lead all the way
and proved far too hot for all but the favorite,
who puddled past him in the straight to win
by eight lengths; Real Guy third.
Another bright spot for punters was the
success of Dureisani (E. Johnstone) at 2 to 1
in the first Hospital Welter. Handling the
mud with a Canberra-like adroitness, the Dhoti
mare downed Solitas and Flashed without
giving her backers a moment’s anxiety; it
took her 1.45* to- run the mile. Dureisams
ability on a heavy track must run in the
family; earlier her half-brother Sun Lyric (by
Helios-Rondelle) was six lengths too good for
South Wind, Sir Marconi and other maiden
three-year-olds over 10 furlongs. Both Dureisam
and Sun Lyric are in the same ownership and
trained by Frank Manning.
The Hoysted stable shelters an enviable bunch
of good youngsters. One of them, the Law
Maker filly Jurisprudence, looked good when
second to Chosen at Flemington and, with
”Just as well we’re on our own and not under contract.”
Badger up, confirmed tha,t form by a classy
win in Saturday’s Juvenile. Rembrandt, a
Brueghel colt having his first start, was backed
at long odds and got to within three parts ot
a length of the winner.
Downing favorite Upheaval and the three-
year-old Flemish in the first Parkville Handicap
of six furlongs, High Production (J. Purtell)
clocked 1.12|— remarkably good time on such
a track. The second division went to High
Production’s stablemate Law List (D. Barclay);
he took 1.17*, beating English Maid and
Gotham, but a cloud had burst in the
meantime. Neither the mud nor a plaster Or
10.12 was sufficient to stop old Azores (R.
Hayes) in the Carlton Hurdle.
For Friday at Randwick (before acceptances):
Summer Nursery Handicap: Dynamite, 1;
Phalanx, 2; Bonnie Prince, 3. Trial Stakes:
Frontal Attack, 1; Binnia Gift, 2; Caribbean,
3. December Stakes: Midwise, 1; Grey Nurse,
2; Simpkin, 3. Mersey Stakes: Nizam’s Ring,
1; Shading, 2; Belle Cherie, 3. Chisholm
Handicap: Monogram, 1; Dowborough, 2;
Tamaroa, 3. Summer Cup: New Cashmere,
1; Hiraji, 2; Monsoon, 3. A.J.C. Handicap:
Prince Mohican, 1; Lady Marie, 2; Tamasha,
3.
For Saturday:—
Carrington Stakes; Dowborough, 1; Gay
King, 2; Lackaboy, 3. Denman Handicap:
Sweet Chime, 1; Concerto, 2; Loyal March, 3,
»*- » »
Mentioned here that Beau Gem in winning
the Victoria Derby in race-record time had
wiped Phar Lap’s name front one of the few
places it still held in the record books. Now
Phar Lap has disappeared from another niche.
For years his photograph, with colors up,
adorned the N.Z. yearling-sales catalogue; a
tempting bait, Phar Lap having been bought
at those sales for a less-than-modest sum. This
year the cover-picture is a race finish: “1947
Melbourne Cup—New Zealand Ist and 2nd,”
referring, of course, to Hiraji and Fresh Boy.
The catalogue lists a record 519 lots. Big
prices are sure for the progeny of Nizami,
represented by 15 youngsters, nine of them
greys and another described as “roan or grey.”
* * * *
Waterlogged Indians:
Even when they left Sydney after the second
Test was washed out last week and cast up
in Bathurst the Indian visitors still hadn’t done
with the deluge, Bathurst had an old man
thunderstorm waiting for them.
Instead of 30 hours, there was only a shade
over H hours play in the Sydney Test, and
most of the time the ground gave Bradman a
chance of scoring his first century of snipe
Still, 47,569 paid £4507 17s. 2d.
Australia managed only 107, to India’s first
innings 188, and in their second knock the
visitors had only 61 up for 7 wickets when
hostilities were washed out. W. Johnston bagged
5 for 48 in the match; lan Johnson 4 for 44.
Bradman scored 13 (clean-bowled); Hamence
(somewhat luckily) top-scored with 25. Second-
innings top score for the visitors was Amar-
nath’s 14. , , .
Toshack, out with knee-trouble, has been
put in for the next Test, due in Melbourne
on January J. This being the season ox ehecr-
fulness, it might be best not to mention that
till last week’s washout there had only been
two drawn Tests in Australia, both in Mei-
k°Mairi features of the tourers’ match against
Country XI at Bathurst were Hazare s 66 not
out in the meagre Indian total of 143, and the
5 wickets for 28 by D. Lester, recalling another
“local lad,” Tom McKibbin, who topped the
bowling with Harry Trott’s team in England
in 1896, bagging 101 wickets.
In the Sheffield Shield N.S.W. piled up 387
for 7 wickets in the first day’s play against
S A in Adelaide on Saturday, and in Mel-
bourne Victoria also lost 7 wickets, scoring
314 on the first day (Friday) against Queens-
land. The wet moving to Melbourne, there
was no play on Saturday. In the Adelaide
match Moroney, who scored % y. India, topped
for N.S.W. with 95.
* * * *
In a hard game on a ground that favored
open play Wales beat the Wallabies 6-0. No
tries were scored, Wales’s points coming irom
penalty goals ip the first half, and if the Aus-
tralians had had a reliable goal-kicker they
might have equalled them—penalties were fre-
quent. In the second half the Wallaby backs
tried hard, but couldn’t break the Welsh de-
fences. In the forwards the lighter Welshmen
had the better of the tight play.
* * * *
In a training spin on the Parramatta the
N.S.W. four-oar crew seeking Olympic selec-
tion covered 2000 metres in 6min. 52.45ec.,
better than the winning times at the last two
Olympic Games and only five seconds outside
world-record time credited to an Italian crew.
* * * *
Alex (“Sandy”) Gray, former crackerjack
Australian Rules rover, has been appointed
sec. of Melbourne Football Club. A North-
cote councillor, “Sandy” roved for Northcote
from 1928 to 1938 and figured in five premier-
ships. He captained the 1936 premiership side.
* * *
Melbourne flyweight Spider Tymms (8.1)
seemed sure to stop N.S.W. champion Jimmy
Hogg (7.12£) at Leichhardt when he floored
him for two long counts in round five, but
Hogg recovered miraculously, was too fast for
Tymms from then on, and got it on points.
J * * * *
So much gore was being spilt in the torrid
stoush between Les Fuller (9.10) and Leo
Berry (9.7£) that ref. Jennings reckoned the
Melbourne Stadium crowd had had enough and
Fuller too much after nine rounds of it. Berry
on a t.k.o. Fuller’s trouble was that bane of
latter-day Australian scrappers, eye-damage.
Eyebrows have never been other than vulner-
able, but here these, days they seem either a
special target or a special weakness.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: Remember how David
Harum said that when he was a nipper
“there were only two seasons —chilblains
and stone-bruises”? Old Barney, who
once adorned our valley, would never
have noticed either. Always unshod, he
flopped contentedly throqgh cobbles or
thistles, dust or mud, and appeared com-
pletely insensitive to discomfort. One day
he trudged along the gravel going skt,
pjop, skt, plop, instead of the usual even
sound, but when asked he had to in-
spect both huge horny soles before he
found the great thorn that was scratching
marks on the road. He was fond of yarn-
ing in the blacksmith’s shop, where a pop-
eyed stranger once let out a yell at the
sight of smoke curling up between
Barney’s toes. Casual inspection revealed
a scrap of hot steel fallen from the anvil.
Barney thanked his informant kindly;
he’d “bin wonderin’ what the funny smell
was.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d struck Phizgig in
Nagambie—not the old, dusty, good-
humored Phizgig who’d shared our ups
and downs around Pinnaroo and Murray-
ville a few years before, but a Phizgig
spruce and neat, running a small grocery
and'with wife and kids —and after he’d
run us well out on the Bendigo road and
left us with a half-note each and tucker -
bags full, we roosted by the roadside and
discussed him. I was pretty sore. “Y’
could see,” I said, “he didn’t want us
“Confound it, Eleanor, if old Meadows migrates to Australia we'll
have to go too."
hapgin’ round. Reckoned we’d get his
joint a bad name or somethin’. By cripes,
he was glad enough t’ camp with us on
the border-fence that time.” Mat grunted,
“It just shows y’,” he said, “what wimmen
can do. You take a bloke, an’ if he’s a
good bloke his mates don’t want t’ change
him, see? But let some woman pick him
up an’ she starts makin’ him all different,
That blpke’s got a missus an’ a bizness an’
she’s made him particular. No down-an’-
cuts for her. Phizaia’s got t’ keep respect-
able an’ be somebody.” Ambition or
something stirred in me, and I said “Well,
I suppose he’s better off than us. Got
a store an’ family an’ everythin’. Must
make a difference.” Mat glared. “Don't
matter what he’s got,” he snapped. “He
ain’t the good old Phizgig, is he? An’
next time you talk t’ me about gettin’
married just remember that. How’d you
like t’ blow inter some town an’ find me
runnin’ the pub or mayor or somethin’
an’ too flamin’ stuck-up t’ want t’ walk t’
y’? Hdw’d y’ like that!” It didn’t bear
contemplation, so I said, “But no women
could make you like that.” Mat was
silent a moment; then: “I wouldn’t put
nothin’ past ’em,” he said, darkly.
¥ ¥ * *
“The 0.D.”: No need for “Alpine
Willie” to warn “Narrin” to keep his
distance when watching a rabbit v. shake
battle (B. 10/12/’47). Isn’t “N.” the cove
who used to range up and down the
Murray with a .22 rifle, shooting his
initials into innocent reptiles basking on
the banks at all ranges up to nine fur-
longs, subject to wind-direction?
H= * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had been
trapping cockatoos on the top of the hay-
stack, and, after climbing up to take them
from the traps, threw them down to the
dog. At first Blue didn’t want to kill
the things, but the old bloke persisted,
till finally the mong got so good at it it
needed only a distant screech to set him
on the offensive. Then Seventyfiver took
a day off to ride into town for some
supplies that were running low. Mooch-
ing on to the store verandah with his
head down he didn’t notice the old store
cocky chained to his perch near the
door. There was a stifled screech fol-
lowed by a crunching noise, and he
looked round to see Blue triumphantly
standing over the late talker. Seventy-
fiver pulled up short. The flash of re-
membrance that told him the bird was
the prized pet of the rf store bloke’s war-
like missus was coupled with an indelible
recollection of the lady in action. Came
a scurry of light footsteps inside the store,
and a scuttle of heavier ones outside.
Which all goes to explain how it hap-
pens we are drinking watery tea this
week, and eating our damper with nothing
to help it down.
* * # *
“D.R.H.”: When I retire to a part of
Australia where gardening is not mere
rank optimism I’m going to grow one of
the most beautiful shrubs I know. This
plant grows from 2ft. to 3ft. in height.
Its smaller stems covered with fine
white hair, its short, almost cylin-
drical leaves colored a most beautiful
light-blue, it is so graceful that, given
a sprig in a vase, a Chinese painter of
the miniature school would probably pass
into ecstasy from just contemplating the
thing. With this shrub in the garden
water restrictions or a fortnights absent-
mindedness just wouldn’t matter. After
a shower of rain the bush sends up,
from shallow lateral roots, an army of
hair-like rootlets whose mission is to
capture every available drop of moisture.
When the ground dries this army is paid
off and another is recruited when the
next shower falls. The watery loot is
stored in special reservoirs throughout
the plant and very special precautions
are taken against *ts loss. As a safe-
guard against evaporation, every leaf is
blanketed with air-containing vesicles and
with a thick nap of hairs between which
is imprisoned air. When the plant
“sweats” the captive air quickly becomes
saturated, after which further evapora-
tion from the skin’of the leaf is not
possible. More wonderful still, some of
the surface hairs are actually hollow tubes
at the base of which lies a living cell,
In waterless months tiny drops of dew
are drawn by capillary action into these
"I'll be Writing out tomorrow's menu soon. How do you spell your name?"
tubes and absorbed by the basal cell.
But perhaps a gold-mounted glass case
would be a more fitting environment for
the old blue bush than a mere garden.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”; Perhaps “Zake’s”
traveller did better after all in sharing
his couch with his horse (B, 19/11/’47).
Have memories of one night spent in the
second-best bedroom of an old bush pub.
The answer why we had no sleep was
“bugs.” That’s what we told the land-
lord when day finally dawned. He
smiled a trifle wryly at such a reflection
on his “house.” “Yair, they are a bit
bad this year. Trouble is, it’s been a poor
sort o’ year for cockroaches ; we gener’ly
rely on them to keep bugs down. Bugs
is the ’roaches favorite tucker, y’ know.”
He * * *
“Betcha”: Was walking down the
long steep hill into the creek with the
townie, when he remarked on the many
sheep-pads. “Leading down to water,” I
told him. He took in the pads with a
roving glance. “If you ask me,” he
sniffed, “they’re running parallel with
the creek. They might reach it s,ome
time, but, gosh, it’s about what y’d ex-
pect a sheep to do, eh?” The site we
were making for duly inspected and our
mission over, the townie .turned to the
steep grade in the direction of home, and
sighed heavily. “There’s a track that’ll
take you to the top gate,” I told him,
pointing out a large pad. “Yair,” he
laughed. “Walk miles east when
1 want 'to go half a mile south? Not on
your life. TIT meet you at the top.” I
followed the easy grade of the sheep-
track, looking back from each vantage
point to see the townie clambering, sliding
or sitting on the steep side for a breather
before tackling another stretch of his
direct route. He arrived at the top
slightly* before I did, but was so badly
blown I had to wait for him. He rubbed
his legs, puffed stertorously about being
clean knocked up, then, considering
thoughtfully, decided that after all sheep
aren’t so silly as they appear to be.
H= H= * H=
“Arthur Itis”: Professor load’s dis-
taste for things Australian may have some
justification. A few years ago he pub-
lished his support of the opinion that
denied the possibility of inheriting
acquired characteristics. Then in 1943
Prof. Wood Jones put forth Habit and
Heritage saying, “There is no valid
reason that prohibits us from believing
that acquired characteristics may be in-
herited.” In support of this he quoted
the Australian abo. —in particular his shin
and foot bones. These bear facets pro-
duced by the abo.’s peculiar posture of
squatting upon his inturned feet, which
are “definitely a part of the morpho-
logical heritage of the’Australian abori-
gine.”
* * * *
“C.E.”: The labor shortage didn’t
worry Ted. He did tbe work of two,
three or four men, as the occasion de-
manded, paid enough tax for several, and
enjoyed the pleasures and relaxation of
none. He was dipping a few early-shorn
wethers. After mustering, he penned up,
chucked in the jummies one at a time,
grabbed a crutch to help Dave, then
charged round to let out before racing
back to pen the next batch. After watch-
ing the procedure, a mechanical-minded
visitor spent the remainder of his holiday
putting in an escalator system. “There
you are, Ted,” he announced proudly,
“Now, all you have to do is set it going
and watch the gates, while Dave pokes
’em under.” Ted set it going. For a
minute he watched the sheep moving
through in a steady effortless stream,
Then, turning, he dashed to the rear.
The dog was keeping the sheep running
nicely. Back again, he glanced at Dave
poking leisurely at the jumbucks or
admiring the scenery. Ted took a couple
of worried strides towards a patch of
thistles that needed cutting, but came
back to swing the gate on the draining-
pens. For 20 minutes he stood it; then,
“Aw, f’r heaven’s sake, shut the blarsted
thing orf, Dave,” he bawled savagely.
jumping into the yards and grabbing a
jumbuck. “Think a man c’n stand round
all day doin’ nothin’ when we got all
these flamin’ sheep waitin’ t’ be dipped?”
* • * * .* .
8.,2 : Rabbit Creek, school picnic was
a spectacular success this year, due chiefly
to the efforts of Jim Holly. A bit snake-
conscious old Jim, and he put in most
of his time warning all and sundry of
the dangers. It was mid-afternoon when
he came flying from the scrub fringing
the clearing, tearing at his clothes and
bawling that a snake had bitten him. He
had his trousers-leg up and was yelling
for ligature and “Condees crysterls” when
someone saw the cause of his consterna-
tion—a red bull-ant hanging on by the
jaws and driving the sting with its
opposite end.
(IV *„ * ~ , * *
X.E.D. : An old bushman gives me
recipe for robbing bee-trees. Required
ar f an axe buckets, cowdung fire m
f, Ike ™ ; ; tin a " d a P a f of **
the better Fa the tree and let the dogs
explore the hollows; soon they will have
entlced f ost the angry bees large dis-
tances from the hive Fo low up by
working in with a good smoke from he
windward side and alter subduing the
stingers, open the hollow and take the
h°uey with ease. The old chap assures
me that only once, when a big dry tree
*o pieces °n hitting the ground, did
have to leg it for the horizon The
fastest kangaroo dog passed him half a
mde out on the plain. #
“Mac Hoots”: If I may be pardoned
for ““*»*>» the *** retiring-room,
it was tbere tbat tbe drama took place.
This elegant wooden structure at a hotel
on the outer fringe of N. S. Wales s Blue
Mountains seemed one morning—one
whole day, in fact to be constantly
occupied. Nothing remarkable m that;
but from dawn to dark of the next day
it was the same. I prefer not to dwell
on the distress, on the changes of plans
on the dark suspicions that were manifest
as guest glared at guest on the third
morning when still the retreat seemed
constantly occupied. Annoyance gave
away to alarm. Illness. Death. Suicide,
Murder? These fears were confided to
the manager, who decided on resolute
action. He banged at that closed door,
“I’m coming in. he declared. No
answer., Very well, if you won t answer,
I am coming in!” He pushed the door
open an inch or two. It slammed shut.
He heaved his shoulder to the door and,
against stubborn opposition, forced his
way in. The occupant was an enormous
wombat. I regret to add that the bloke
who told me the story said he had to
get a crowbar to shift the brute, and
when he tried to lift it the bar bent
double; but perhaps a little exaggeration
was natural in his relief. Everybody,
indeed, was relieved.
THE LAST BARD.
There will be no last bard of this blue distance
Till the red embers of the campfire die,
Until man’s hand has tamed the final ranges,
And the last open space the sky.
Till the last stockhorse flings the last white
foamflake
And the last stockman holds the last lone
lead,
There will be singing hearts to rhyme the hoof-
beats
And weave the stories of the lean brown
breed.
When we, the scattered band, have ceased our
singing,
When we are frail of foot and grey of hair,
We will depart, but still the muse will linger,
Others will rise to grasp the torch we bear.
While still a dingo howls among the timber,
While still the sandal scents infuse the breeze,
There will be ballads made on other Crangas,
New bards will sing of other Tringadees.
And if the marks we’ve left on tracks behind us
Defy the weather and the drifts of time,
If for some fleeting flash a pen, inspired,
Has come by chance to weave a deathless
rhyme ( \
When we but sought to tell a horseman’s glory,
The spirit of the plains, the clouds above,
It is our gift—unstinted is the giving—
Our legacy toward the land we love.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


HIGH-CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American, African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
To Help Solve Your Money Worries
7rm
r
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, come in
and talk it over.
RURAL BANK
Head Office: Martin Place, Sydney.
<p-:v
BABY
LOVES
to revel In the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap* It
keeps his tender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety-
One of the famous
trio-Cuticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
“Old-timer”: “The Book of Words”
was believed to be capable of talking him-
self into or out of anything, and our part
of the Riverina landscape was liberally
bespattered with people left gasping with
admiration for his talent. But he met his
Waterloo when Malice Cliffs put on a
woman cook. To her came “The Book’
and opened fire thus: “Madam, though
to you I appear as one in the full posses-
sion of his mental and physical faculties,
and with the outward semblance of a
person not desperately in need of succor,
let me assure you —and in this I make the
appeal rather to your reason than to your
human sympathies —that nothing is
farther from the truth. For, though I
present the fapade of one who is strong
and healthy, be not deceived, for such is
not the case.” Here “The Book” paused
and watched with interest, for the lady
brushed flour from her hands as though
in preparation to open the safe. She
looked him over and then said: “If you
imagine that all that blatherskite is go-
ing to get you a free feed, be not deceived,
for such is not the case. And if you
imagine that I’m a weak woman, be not
deceived again, for I’ve cooked at river
pubs for years and you can’t tell me any-
thing about hummers. There’s tucker
here ; there’s a woodheap and an axe out
there. That’s all I’ve got to say.” Where-
after “The Book” became a fiery oppon-
ent of secondary education for girls.
* * * *
“Zake”: Sam, the half-caste abo. who
had drifted in for wood-and-water work,
was greatly taken with the milking
machines. Every spare minute he had
was spent looking at them either in or
out of action. His interest aroused the
curiosity of Long Alec, who undertook
to explain their workings. After over
half an hour of going over every part and
explaining the various features and the
way they drew out the milk, he asked
the abo. whether ha had every-
thing clear. Sam looked at him wood-
enly. “Just doan get one small thing,”
he announced slowly. “How does milk
come longa machine when no hand
pullem cow’s teat?”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Narrin” needn’t
suspect his brown snake simply because
it was marked with black rings (B.
26 /11 / ’47). The color of some species
of snakes varies considerably with the
locality. The tiger-snake is banded yel-
low around Perth; 300 miles south, at
Albany, it’s a uniform black. You can’t
mistake the brown snake over here. It’s
the largest common snake in the sou-
west, has a uniform dark-brown back
and orange under-surface and a distinct
neck between body and head. But it’s
not the true brown snake. It’s the Wes-
tralian representative of the Eastern
black snake, Demansia huchahs.
“Narrin’s” brown-snake comes in three
types west of the Nullabor. spotted
brown, olive green on top and with sides
irregularly spotted with black scales,
passes itself off as the diamond-snake
In the wheatbelt it has a black head and
a yellow-and-black handed body. On
Rottnest Island it’s a uniform brown-
dark or light according to the company
it keeps.
m * * *
“Bo”: The flood was one of the worst
the district had known. After four days
of ceaseless pelting rain, yellow swilling
waters covered all the low-lying ground.
With the help of lim, his old hand, who
had been through many floods, Fred
Barratt had moved all the stock to higher
ground, shifted the family and come back
and stacked what they could of the
fragile Barratt belongings above the
kitchen ceiling in the hope that they
might escape the muddy tide. Leaving
their retreat a bit late, Fred and lim had
been trapped on the way back to the
higher ground and had taken refuge in a
“Oh, the fire-eater's just having a snack."
tree, in the fork of which they were
perched as they saw, bumping along as it
was carried by the muddy stream, an old
piano. On it, and clinging precariously
to a corner with one foot wedged in the
space between the old-fashioned brass
candlestick and the front panel, was Joe
Hickson. Hickson bad a few weeks before
secured a verdict for a few pounds against
Fred over the matter of some broken
fencing bordering his lucerne patch. As
he was carried past them Jim, who took
the boss’s troubles as his own, jerked a
thumb at the successful litigant on the
piano and said in a loud voice to Fred:
“Gripes, he could at least have cheered
a bloke up with a tune on it even if he
was too lousyto paddle over an’ rescue us!”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: A soft rustling sound,
its origin and source hard to deter-
mine. Eventually traced to the food
cupboard, the noise proved to be caused
by thousands of tiny feet hurrying across
greaseproof paper to and from the cold
leg of mutton. Nothing unusual, of
course, in meat-ants finding the week-end
joint; the unusual aspect lay in the fact
that the room* was in complete darkness
and the time close to midnight. In nearly
40 years of unsuccessful skirmishing
against the little thieves I had failed to
learn that meat-ants can be nocturnal. I
absently flicked one of the marauders on
to the floor and learned something
more! As a test I brushed off another —
and another. For absolute proof I
caught one of the little creatures, held
him upside down, and dropped him. To
think that a cat’s ability to twist in mid-
air from any position and land on its
feet has always held my wondering ad-
miration! The ordinary meat-ant can
do exactly the same thing.
* * * *
“Billjim”: Tell “Ken don” (B.
19/11/’47) that according to a survey
conducted by a London paper, the
fastest British bird is the golden eagle
(120 m.p.h. timed by a watch), with the
swallow (106 m.p.h. ground-speed), swift
(68 m.p.h. frightened), mallard duck (60
m.p.h. timed from aircraft), pheasant (60
m.p.h. av. maximum) and crow (60
m.p.h. measured by train) well up. Most
surprising, perhaps, is the speed Kelly
can make when warmed up. A similar
survey of aquatic life ranged from the
60 m.p.h. of the swordfish to the 25 m.p.h.
of the shrimp.
* * * *
“Macnell”: What amazing navigators
the old-timers were! As we threaded our
careful way through the Reef, passing
safely from light to light spaced every
10 miles or so, radar aerial-plotting every
island for 20 miles around, I read this
acknowledgment at the bottom of our
chart: “Principally from the original
chart of Terra Australis, by Capt. M.
Flinders., R.N., H.M. sloop Investigator,
1802-3.” On another, “Compiled chiefly
from the surveys of Captains Flinders and
King, R.N., 1802-1806.” An interesting
footnote was added. “Saumarez Reef;
General Remarks. This chart, and
a masthead lookout, will enable a ship
under all sail to round under the lee of
the reef where (as under the Plymouth
breakwater) she may caulk topsides, set
up rigging, rate chronometers, obtain
turtle, fish and seafowl eggs. On some
of the more salient reefs, beacons were
erected by Captain Flinders, and for the
sake of castaways, coconut shrubs and
grasses of every description of seed likely
to grow were sown in the way to pro-
mote the superstructure (that is, raise the
level of visibility of the reef); and it is
most desirable that these refuge spots
should be held sacred for universal bene-
fit, and not ruthlessly destroyed by the
guano seeker.” With the exception of
lights and beacons added since, the charts
are exact facsimiles of those originals
surveyed so long ago. Poring over a
chart, appreciating one’s complete re-
liance on its proven accuracy, in the self-
satisfaction of a successful passage, one
cannot help but feel the humbling
obvious—Matthew Flinders had no lights,
“Flip”: Swaybacked, the “T”-model
had among its other complaints cross-
eyed headlamps, calluses of the tyres,
and a bend in the front axle suggesting
the rheumatics of old age. Apart fiom
that, it. was a car, must have had an
owner and was awkwardly placed in the
railway parking-lot. Alf, the station-
master, waited until he had flagged the
evening train off to the city, then with
much grunting pushed the vehicle out of
the way into a far corner of ttye yard
and forgot all about it. After about
a fortnight, when a passion-fruit vine had
taken a hold on its back fender, people
began to inquire as to the car’s owner
and learned from Alf that he hadn’t the
foggiest —“probably been abandoned.
Mysterious figures began turning up m
the station-yard late at night with screw-
drivers, staggering away later with heavy
weights. Lizzie became a memory and
an oil-splash in the dirt. A week or so
after the car’s final disappearance Alt
had just checked the tickets of the pas-
sengers off the Flier, had welcomed old
Doug McNab back from his spell in the
city, and was settling down for a spell
until noon when a terrible bellow came
from the yard. “What happened to me
flamin’ car?” Alf looked out in horror
and saw Doug standing where the ancient
Ford had been. “ ’Strewth, was that
yours?” he cried. “Yair. I drove it up
from Bombina.” “Gripes, everyone
thought it had been dumped there—they
souvenired it.” “I’ll get the law on em,
bellowed Mac. “Gripes, I was only gone
a month. It’s gettin’ so that a bloke
can’t leave a thing five minutes without
some cow liftin’ it.”
* * * *
“Simmo”: The term “boy,” which the
New Guinea native has always understood
and to which he never objected, is
now not to be used —by Eddie Ward s
regulation. “Boss-boy” is now a fore-
man, if you please ; so after a planter has
called the boss-boy “foreman” a few
times the b.b. turns and exclaims, “What
name this fella foreman, him something
allsame bastard? ” One European, finding
three “boys” at work, asked “Who is
the foreman?” One boy replied. No
got four fella man, him three fella, das
a!l.” m
“Sou*-west’i: *“Kelms” (B. 19/11/’47)
has his dogs mixed. Mating of the grey-
hound and the deerhound produced
the kangaroo-dog —speedy, enduring,
powerful and, above all, intelligent
enough to “kill and show,” but cer-
tainly no “handful of muscle and bone.’
Such dogs still exist in the W.A. south-
west ; still hunt the Too. A couple live
next door to my bush humpy. When
there I take pains to keep friendly with
them; they’rfe big enough to pull me
down.
* * * *
“T, Devil”: That mistaken recogni-
tion which occasionally leaves us stam-
mering “Sorry, I thought you were
someone else” embarrasses not only
human beings. When our cocker-
spaniel thought he saw his old man re-
turning down the hill he took off to
make his usual frenzied welcome.
“Nicky” didn’t notice that the man was
not his owner until just before the final
leap—usually taken from about five feet
away. The dog applied his air-brakes,
skidded on one ear and turned away to
a clump of weeds, looking most preoccu-
pied but muttering indignantly.
* * * *
“G’roper”: I suppose in a land so pro-
lific in cultivated fruits so simple a plant
as the “pigface” is bound to be ignored.
Many a time, though, I’ve squatted by an
overrun of this weed and whacked into
those succulent fruits described by
“Bogaduck” (B. 19/11/’47). Makes quite
a passable jam, too. Back m the early
days of W.A., when jam came all the way
from England in glass containers and was
a luxury only for the well-to-do, needy
housewives gathered the fruit of the pig-
face and, with sugar from Java, made a
mock fig jam. Some still favor it, mix-
ing the fruit with the now plentiful figs,
the sweet jelly of th,e pigface giving an
added body to the figs.
THE KANGAROO.
I am the kangaroo,
Slate-grey, and red;
And when, as oft I do,
I lift my head
Against the far-off blue
Of sky and earth,
I am a symbol, too,
Of this land’s birth.
I am the rock and tree,
The wide plains dry,
The gorges wild and free,
The blue-hot sky,
The grey-blue greenery —
Gully and rise,
The aborigine,
And his far eyes.
The silences am I,
The granite peak,
The flood, the river high,
The dried-up creek,
The hot white clouds that lie
Before the sun,
The breeze that rustles by
Where grasses run.
I lift my head, and so
Time there is writ,
Ages of long ago
Are held in it.
I am a statue, oh,
As old as stone:
Grey boulder stooping low,
Standing, alone.
I am the dry, hot land,
The sand, the clay,
The burning wind that fanned
Some far-off day:
I, kangaroo, as planned,
Still, still unspent,
The breath, the bone, the strand
Of our continent.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
s
%
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
l|in. Ring Surcingle, Hin_. best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephone: FA 5013.
FAT STOCK MEAN FAT PRICES
PROVIDED the grower’s hard work, care and attention to his sheep are not
spoilt by inefficient handling. Careful attention in the Homebnsh yards’
resting paddocks by the staff of highly-trained A.M.L.&F. experts works
wonders. This care, plus shrewd valuing, careful droving, skilful drafting and
penning, and alert auctioneering, means “top o’ the market” prices for
A.M.L.&F. clients.
A.M.L.&F. are masters in the marketing of livestock, whether It be at
Homebnsh, other saleyards, or in the paddock. Team up with A.M.L.&F.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & F:
(Inc. in England, 1865.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
inance Coy. Ltd.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henly and Hay.
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
CRegd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Babbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL and A CERTAIN
KILLER
v-
m
n
m
bV\
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
*PHONE: MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Less Fine Wools.
“R. Ney”: Their production has
dropped 17 p.c. in seven years, according
to an analysis of clips made by the Wool
Realisation Commission, the first of its
kind ever made in this country. In
1940-41, wool of 64’s quality made
1.780.000 bales, 54.6 p.c. of the total
clip; in 1946-47 the 64’s made only
1.016.000 bales, about 37.5 p.c. of the clip.
The Commission offers no explanation
of the fall, except the passing comment
that “the droughts apparently had the
effect of reducing production in this
group.” The droughts were nothing like
as severe in the fine-wool areas as in
other parts of the wool country, nor
were they as prolonged. *
There was, of course, a general fall in
wool production during the seven years,
which embraced two severe and sundry
lesser drought periods. Still, there was
what the Commission calls an “interest-
ing” increase in the quality of 58’s, 56’s,
50’s and coarser wools, which made 14.3
p.c. of the clip in 1940-41 and 30.8 p.c.
of it seven years later. The Commission
is “heartened” to note that, though the'
general Australian clip has obviously
coarsened, there has been no marked
change in the proportions of free wools
and those parrying vegetable faults.
Rm not sure whether all this proves
that a permanent and continuing decline
in fine wools has begun—it could be that
the stresses of war, droughts, lack of
labor and materials, penal taxation, fear
of “socialist” notions about “nationalis-
ing” select properties and related things
could have a worse effect on fine-wool
growers than on others —but the country
ought to be concerned about it. Our
wool reputation is based primarily on
our fine wools, and it is for them that
overseas buyers compete most hungrily,
as auction prices show.
Since the Wool Board has satisfied
itself that the decline has occurred and
is, apparently, continuing, it could make
a good job better by examining the
causes more closely and seeking remedies.
N.S.W. Wheat.
’ve just had *a five-weeks
tour of the N.S.W. wheat belt from
Inverell and Moree down to the Murray,
watching the R.A.S. judges on the field-
wheat championships—resumed after the
war-time halt. Main value of the contest
was the attention brought to bear in such
a season on five new rust-resistant
varieties, bred by Sydney University and
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
plant breeders. The wheats x Gabo, Yalta,
Charter, Celebration and Kendee, didn’t
show a particle of rust, yielded well, and
should become very popular when their
merits are more widely known.
Professor Waterhouse and Dr. I. A.
Watson, of the University, bred Kendee
and Gabo, and Dr. S. L. Macindoe, of
the Department, bred Celebration, Yalta
and Charter. Before that he had Eureka
to his credit. All the rust-resistant wheat
parents were introduced into Australia
by H. Wenholz, N.S.W. Director of Plant
Breeding. The breeding lines are:
Kendee, Kenya x Dundee; Gabo, Bobin
x Gaza x Bobin; Celebration, Double
Cross x Dundee x Dundee ; Yalta, Kenya
x Pusa 4 x Dundee; Charter, Kenya x
Gular.
Eureka, Bencubbin and Bordan, all
splendid wheats in their day, took rust
pretty badly this season and Eureka has
almost completely lost favor with growers
for this reason. Many growers will slick
to Bencubbin and Bordan because of
their high-yielding capacity in normal
seasons. This season is one of the worst
for rust in N.S.W. for a quarter of a
century, and it would be unfair to
condemn varieties which had taken it
badly but which, in normal seasons, are
bag-fillers and can produce the kind of
grain which farmers, millers and ex-
porters want.
Rust has taken heavy toll of crops
throughout the wheat belt, and recent
yield estimates will have to be revised
downwards. A N.S.W. official forecast of
120,000,000 bushels, made just before
the December rains swept over the State,
has been washed out. Rust, the lateness
of the season, lodging and bleaching will
probably pull that estimate down by 20
per cent. For what it’s worth, and allow-
ing for everything. I’ll take a risk on
“You cant complain about it being watered now!”
95,000,000 bushels, but whether that will
be all f.a.q. stuff is another matter.
As for grasshoppers, which had so
stirred the city press, the R.A.S. party
covered over 6000 miles and nowhere
saw ’hoppers in anything approaching
plague proportions. They were always
“20 miles up the road” or “30 miles
down the line” but never where the party
was. In any event the rain must have
settled most of them by this.
Rust or no rust, Bordan won 'three of
the five R.A.S. championships: North-
west, D. J. Barwick, Lloma, Loom-
berah (Celebration); West, W. G.
Law, Thistledown, Gilgandra (Koola);
Southern Slopes, G. F. Hutchings, Dal-
rye, Yerong Creek (Bordan); Riverina,
T. L. A’Beckett, Karabrook, French
Park (Bordan); Central West, C. W.
Ewin, Fenella, Birriwa (Bordan).
The Percheron.
“Rooster”: It’s doubtful whether this
horse will ever be popular in Australia.
Several vain attempts were made in
England to popularize it, but it was
found that the animals were much softer
than the Shire or Clydesdale, they did
not work so well, and did not last so
long. This appears to contradict claims
for the breed, though I see the point
about “maintaining his keep and condi-
tion on about one-third less feed” (B.
10/12/’47).
Our Vic. climate goes to extremes,
torrid in summer, freezing in winter.
Temperatures can double or halve them-
selves in a day. Any animal which, by
natural selection, or by hereditary
characteristics, is not adaptable to harsh
climatic conditions would not last long.
England has a hard winter, but the
summer is) lukewarm, compared with
ours. It’s an even bet that, if the Per-
cheron couldn’t stand up to conditions
there, it won’t get far here.
The question of feed is not so relatively
important as the stamina of the breed,
but for all-round ability, and judging
strictly on a “work-for-food” basis, my
vote for Australia is the Suffolk Punch,
vastly improved during the last two de-
cades. It has a particularly robust con-
stitution and is recognised everywhere for
its longevity, courage, willingness and
docility. The S.P. is an economical asset
to any farmer.
Are They Worth While?
“8.C.”: A lot of country people
wonder what purpose the Sydney R.A.S.
field-wheat contests serve? They cost a
lot of money to run and involve a good
deal of worry and hard work both for
R.A.S. men and the judges, who are
“loaned” by the Department of Agri-
culture. There’s no doubt they have
served a good purpose. Originally de-
signed to publicise the methods of suc-
cessful growers, prove the value of new
wheats and generally provide a sort of
informative link-up between growers all
over the State with the object of generally
increasing the State’s average acre yield,
the R.A.S. can justly claim that the con-
tests have done that. But there is an
uncomfortable feeling that, this object
having been achieved, the contests should
either be dropped or be directed to a new
end.
This, of course, isn’t the season to talk
about the menace of single-crop farming
and the risk of “dust bowls” in the wheat
belt. Big crops and high prices for wheat
can have only one overall effect, and
that is to make men concentrate on
wheat. But in time prices will fall and
in time this intensive cropping will have
its effect on the soil. It isn’t hard to
imagine that vast areas will be fallowed
for next sowing season, nor is it hard to
imagine what will happen to them if 1948
comes in dry and the high winds start
in autumn.
The R.A.S. might do well to consider
these and related matters and seek some
revision of its field-wheat-contest condi-
tions. What, for instance, are this year’s
champions doing about resting paddocks,
or lea farming, or adopting sidelines?
What methods are they using to counter
wind and water erosion? It should be
possible to get something of this into a
wheat-crop contest, since it has been
amply demonstrated that continuous and
profitable wheat production depends upon
something more than the mere growing
of wheat.
Drugs on the Farm.
“Atlanta”: Discretion in their use is
essential or trouble will result. The
following are in common use, but often
their action is unknown to the user and
they are often used for the wrong pur-
pose:
Copper sulphate or bluestone: Useful
when used with discretion, but used
indiscriminately may cause considerable
harm. Internally it is an astringent and
an irritant poison, affects the digestion
and should be given only in very weak
solutions.
Stockholm tar: A good old remedy for
wounds and protection from fly strike.
As it contains turpentine, creosote,
phenols, and many other substances which
are all irritants, it should not be given
internally.
Nicotine sulphate: In conjunction with
bluestone is used extensively for internal
parasites, but is very poisonous and must
be used with greatest of care. As it
affects the kidneys, doses must not be
given too frequently.
Liquid sheep-dips: Valuable as general
antiseptics to be used at lamb-marking
and for treating fly-strike, but must not
be given internally as they contain
phenol.
Turpentine; An antiseptic and a stimu-
lant ; useful in bloat but should be given
only in small doses in olive or linseed
oil.
Saltpetre: In large doses is an irritant
poison. Should not be included in
preparations used for lamb-marking ow-
ing to its destructive effect upon bone.
Of the internal medicines, powders are
unsatisfactory as they are hard to give
and are too slow when a number of sheep
are to be treated. Pills and tabloids are
not recommended as several days may
elapse before tfiey dissolve and reach the
fourth stomach, and then only in a very
diluted form. The main advantage of
capsules for internal parasites is the
certainty that a correct dose is given.
They are easily administered and the out-
side covering quickly dissolves and
liberates the dose.
Liquid drenches given with the drench-
ing gun are the most effective and econo-
mical medicines. The sheep must be
allowed to stand while receiving the dose.
Straddle them across the shoulders and
lift the nose so that eyes and nose are
on the same level and administer the dose
in a steady stream.
Topdressing in Queensland.
“Agric”; Owing to the high cost of
copper sulphate a proposal to topdress
an experimental area of copper-deficient
country in nor’-west Q. by ’plane has
been abandoned, for the time being,
though 30 acres will be treated by broad-
casting at the rate of 41b, to the acre.
Samples of Mitchell, Flinders and
button grasses from the area will be
analysed to ascertain their, copper con-
tent before and after treatment, and sheep


m
m
m
m
m
(lIP
ggg
11
■M
- #>CT>fe :
Bgggjg
i
m
H
s;#:*
MMM
mmm
IvIvXvWWW
Hi
3S&?
«
M
H
SSS
ii
Merry Xmas to all at our Office and Works,
To our Staff, our Technicians and Draughtsmen;
To the Typists and Bookkeepers, Cashiers and Clerks,
To Apprentices, Foremen and Craftsmen;
To all who have helped in this difficult year.
Sincerely we wish you the best of good cheer.
Season’s greetings to Tyre Dealers big ones and small.
To our Shareholders, Customers, Salesmen,
Our Consultants, Distributors, Wholesalers all.
To Victorian and New South Walesmen;
From Queensland to Tassie —S.A. to the West—
•We say Merry Xmas and wish you the best.
Happy Yuletide to all —both the Jacks and the Jills
Of the Rubber and Cotton suppliers.
And the Rayon and Metal and Chemical Mills
And the Car Makers using our tyres ;
To Car and Truck Owners now, Dunlop presents
Its best Xmas wishes and warm compliments.
Xmas greetings to all Sporting “Pros” and the blokes
Who are Sport and Departmental Storemen,
To the General and Chain Stores, and Footwear Storefolk,
To the Phone girls. Assistants and Floormen;
To our Drivers and Packers and Shippers and such,
A Happy New Year and—thanks very much.
Merry Xmas to people whose names may have missed
A particular personal mention
Such as Lawyers, Insurance men —all on the list
With the Auditors for our attention;
And a Health to Competitors—big ones and small
For your efforts in keeping us £ Tight on the ball. -
Xmas greetings to everyone —and a last word
About Dunlop Goods shoppers are short of—
We hope “forty-eight” to which we’ve referred
Will supply them—plus some you’ve not thought of!
May this “forty-seven” Xmas be one to recall
With the coming New Year as the best of them all
D 503
grazing there will be kept under observa-
tion so that the result can be tagged.
Final results, however, will not be known
until the sheep are full-woolled next
August.
Topdressing has become the accepted
practice in S.A. for combating “doggy”
wool, but there it is mostly drilled in
with superphosphate. Distribution is
the big problem in Queensland, where
large areas should benefit from topdress-
ing ; in fact, one expert estimates that on
the present price of wool the improve-
ment from topdressing with copper
sulphate would be from lOd. to Is. per
lb. South Australian experience suggests
that the beneficial effects would last about
five years, probably longer.
Safe Stocking.
“Woolly”: So, according to Vic.
“Journal of Agriculture” (B. 3/12/’47),
10 sheep to one head of cattle is the
proper ratio in stocking country to main-
tain an even balance of grasses and
clovers. Unless confined to certain
classes of land that statement may be
very misleading. Old hands, that is men
who handle stock before pasture im-
provement came into vogue, held that
one bullock needed as much country as
eight or, as some would have it, 10 grown
sheep. The suggestion that the proper
proportion of each when running together
is one to ten is something quite new, and
unsound. In certain classes of country
it would be quite right, in others it
Hams In the last type of paddock it is
erad inadvisable to put cattle at all,
| ecausc Y of the damage they do to water-
pjaces man y of which, otherwise safe
fo 8 ’ arg y madp dea th-traps by the
he hoofs of cattle. In mountainous
country, as also in tussocky country, and
Jand sub j ect to flood, it generally, though
nQ m J eans a i ways , pays to mix a few
catde witd t fl fc s heep. But in what is
read s heep country, which applies to by
the grea t er par t of our inland areas,
ca tfl e except the milkers at the home-
stead, and their pro g en y i n pa ddocks with
a river frontage, are apt to cut down
piofit.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C”: Scraping away the greenish
deposits • from battery clips with a knife
is injurious to both clips and knife-blade,
Make a weak solution of soda and dab
it on with a rag until the acid is dissolved,
but take care no alkali gets into the bat-
tery cells. Marked acid accumulations
around the poles of a battery are a sign
that the battery has been overcharged,
In that case find a new charging plant,
“Sarina”: The C.S.I.R. in Queensland
wrote to the writer regarding the pur-
chase of Para-grass seed, but as the grass
does not mature seed on my place, I
could not supply. Someone may read
this who has seed of Para grass for sale.
Address: The Plant Introduction Officer,
C.5.1.R., 113 Eagle-street, Brisbane,
“C.A.A.”: Where watery wound rot
in potatoes is troublesome a four- to six-
year rotation is necessary, as the disease
is caused by a soil fungus. Include oats,
onions, maize and peas and be careful
to destroy diseased potatoes. Confine
digging to cool weather and try to avoid
injury. Bag only sound tubers and don’t
use loading hooks on bags.
“Billjim”: During December and
January keep a close eye on laying pens,
and if any birds hatched in the previous
year’s spring season show signs of dull
combs and loss of feathers and aren’t
laying they should be marketed, as early
moulters won’t return to laying until June
or July. Culling will reduce the feed bill.
“Ngadure”; Where rollers and ploughs
were used unsuccessfully for over 20
years to rid pastures of bracken fern, an
enterprising neighbor did it efficiently.
He ran an electrified barb (a foot above
ground level) close round the stand and
placed pigs inside. They dug for the
bracken roots, which they like. Ploughing
a small piece each day would probably
hasten the process; but is not necessary
except in summer, when the ground is
very hard,
“E. 2”: Dense bracken fern may be
cleared up in a season or two with regu-
lar attention, but it’ll last for years if
only periodic cutting and burning are
practised. Cut and burn first; then con-
centrate on bleeding the life out of the
plants as they put up new growth. A
drag or roller crushing the shoots as they
reach the leafy stage has the right effect,
and each successive growth will be
weaker. Cutting the ferns steadies the
growth for a time, but crushing and muti-
lation rob the root system. Moreover,
the roller or drag covers a lot of ground
in quick time.
“W. Court”: There are male and
female carob-be.an trees, the flowers of
the male being more attractive to bees
than those of the females. More than
one male tree to 10 or 12 females is not
recommended, since pollinating insects
may concentrate entirely on male trees
where they are plentiful. Under such
conditions the female carobs cannot set
fruit. One method of drawing the bees
to the flowers of both is to graft male
branches on to female trees. Besides
being producers of nutritious fodder for
cattle and sheep, carobs are very useful
summer shade and for enriching the
land.
“Big Billy”: Rusting of iron fencing
posts can be minimised by dipping in
tar, thoroughly drying before erection.
Bituminous paint is more satisfactory,
since it sticks on better than tar. Ac-
cording to the C.S.I.R. the chances are
remote of producing at reasonable cost
an iron post that will withstand rust.
“C.S.”: The Ferguson Tractor Co.
(England) says it is arranging for the
distribution throughout the Common-
wealth of 4000 of its machines during
1948. They are 24 horse-power units,
and “incorporate all the latest features
of tractor development.”


*****
v>%
Bombay to Cairo
2870 miles, in 14 hrs. 55 mins, (one day)
Rangoon to Vizagapatam
880 miles, across the Bay of Bengal.
Broome to Singapore
1910 miles, in one day.
Sydney to Auckland
1350 miles, across the Tasman Seo.
S
*
el
TO
UP
The strenuous schedule main-
tained during the recent
Empire tour of a Vickers
Viking included a number of
outstanding individual flights. Many were over open
water and off the usual air-line routes —an indication
of the confidence inspired by the Viking’s standard of
performance. The total distance flown was 40,000 miles,
including 11,000 miles of demonstration flights.
Although a full complement of spares was carried, the
flight was trouble-free.
Viji
rmstrongs
Ipited
AIRCRAFT SECTION
VICKERS HOUSE, BROADWAY, LONDON, S
.W.i
OINEERS * AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS
Represented by Sir KEITH SMITH, K.B.E. (P.O. Box 627), Sydney, N.S.W.
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies; —
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Does history repeat itself?” — Prof. Murdoch.
It hasn’t much chance with so many
Ms.P. at it.
❖
“High-heeled shoes cause divorces, hysterics,
spinal disease, sick headaches, moodiness.”
—“New Idea.”
And thus many a woman loses her sole
support.
*1* •!•
“You will have noticed, if you listen to
radio programmes, that every station seems,
like Nature, to abhor a vacuum.” — “S.M.H.”
It is promptly replaced by hot air.
+
“ ‘When she failed to return, I left my
regular job with the public service and seemed
to go to pieces,’ he said.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
It was the shock of having to work for
a living that unnerved him.
> •5 , i
Picking a Winner.
“There are not many people who know how
to sum up a woman as objectively as they
would a well-made piece of fine machinery
or a fine horse.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Though woman, with Eve’s guile imbued,
May take the hardest heart by storm,
Despite his weakness man is shrewd
Enough to judge her by her form.
B.
“When you are lazily resting on the lawn
or in your hammock do you get ideas?”
—“New Idea.”
It all depends on whom you are with!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Not one Sydney girl in 10,000 has the
slightest idea of make-up.”— Sydney “D.T.”
However, most of them try to cover up
their ignorance. _
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The raising of money for the various
activities is not the major part of, the pro-
gramme.” — Broken Hill ( N.S.W .) paper.
But it does lay the foundation.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lipstick, nail lacquer and face packs, etc.,
are viewed by some with concern.”
— Woman’s mag.
But eyebrow-plucking is universally
frowned upon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Is Everybody Happy?
“Moscow Radio has relayed stories emphasis-
ing the Russians’ ‘joy’ at the revaluation of the
rouble.”
Armed guards had marched the workers
of the great Scarlet September factory
to their bench places in preparation fo/
their 10-hour day. After a brief talk by
the factory’s Political Commissar on the
wonderful advantages of the worker’s
life in free Soviet Russia as compared
with the slavery of the toilers —soon to
be emancipated—in capitalist countries
the happy workers started. Every now
and then they stole a glance at the armed
guards, now posted around the walls.
Ivan, who was making nipples for the
new carbide acetylene lamp, product of
Soviet inventive genius, whispered to
Gregor, on the next bench, who was fit-
ting new iron tyres to the latest-pattern
bullock wagons for the Red Army. “You
have two hundred roubles you were sav-
ing to buy a coffin. You’ll get twenty
new roubles for them. Doesn’t it make
you feel good to think your hundred and
eighty roubles will be used to subsidise
spies for our country in Communist
parties all over the world? You ought to
thank Comrade Stalin for thinking of it! ”
Gregor looked around to see if anyone
was in earshot. Then he drew his thumb
across his throat. “That for Comrade
Joe!” he whispered “And every-
one on the Politburo. Anyway, what of
the sixty roubles you won at the races on
Sunday, Comrade? It’s your first win
for about seven years, and you’ll have to
hand fifty-four of them back. I suppose
if you were allowed to pray at all you’d
say a few extra-special prayers for Com-
rade Joe?”
Ivan made a strangled sort of noise
but said nothing, for the foreman, whom
many of the happy toilers suspected of
being an N.K.V.D. undercover man, was
coming toward them. •
During their 20-minute lunch break a
party of collectivised journalists and
photographers, special guards and secret
“When ARE you going to rig that
clothes-line?”
police came to where Ivan and Gregor
were sitting on the mud floor enjoying
their bread-and-bread sandwiches.
The factory’s Political Commissar
turned to Ivan. “You are perfectly happy
about the new, currency changes. Com-
rade?” he asked bleakly.
As Ivan looked gloomily ahead but
didn’t answer, one of the N.K.V.D. men
summoned an armed guard and said,
apropos of nothing: “The winds blow
cold in Siberia. Did yo'u say you were
happy about the new currency regula-
tions?”
“Most happy, Comrade,” answered
Ivan hastily. “In fact, now I come to
think of it, it would have suited me if
Comrade Stalin had let me give twenty
old roubles for every new one to the
glory of our Communist paradise.”
“Excellent, Comrade—then why aren’t
you smiling?” asked the N.K.V.D. man,
nodding towards a large uniformed fellow
holding a knout. Immediately Ivan
smiled broadly, and as he smiled the
photographers did their work. The same
procedure was followed with Gregor.
The next day Comrades Joe and Molo,
after having settled the composition of
the day’s various purges and exchanged
their roubles at the special rate they’d
fixed of four new ones for every old one
they held, were relaxing over their copies
of “Depravda.”
“One can’t help but be struck. Com-
rade,” remarked Molo, tapping his open
paper, “with the happy smiles of our
workers over the new currency. Clearly
a resqjt of removing that acquisitiveness
which is the great curse of the benighted
capitalist plutocracies.”
“You are right, Comrade,” replied
Uncle Joe benignly as he lit his pipe,
using as a spill a new 1000-rouble note.
“That is one of the greatest achievements
of our Communist regime—we have suc-
ceeded in altering human nature! ”
Bo.
Deficit.
“A woman in Wisconsin sued for divorce on
discovering that her husband had two fingers
missing on each hand.”
When a girl takes a notion to enter
The marital yoke with the man of her
dreams,
In accepting the hand of her suitor, it
seems
A defective one doesn’t content her;
And in fact it could only torment her
To count up the digits her drudge
didn’t own
And note that in working the things to
the bone
He’d be only a fifty percenter.
So looking round for a plausible ground
In the sceptical ear of a judge to pro-
pound,
It’s likely she hit on the gist of it
In claiming from wedlock she ought to be
freed
Since hubby, as he’d be the first to con-
cede,
Was unable to make a good fist of it.
P. M. LUSK.
Cycle Logical.
“There was once a horrible theory, which
had a certain vogue, that time was a series of
cycles, or recurrences.”— “S. M. Herald."
And who, I ask, makes bold to query
The truth of this distasteful theory ?
For, from your childhood you’ll have
found
That things in cycles have come round.
What man but is a firm believer
That spring returns with his hay-fever.
And fruits which gladden human lives
Each season cause a crop of hives ?
Our picture-shows depict in turn
Sob-sister stuff and flames that burn
At passion’s altar. Dresses fall
And rise in cycles; hats appal
Or are the targets for derision,
Now off-the-face, now blocking vision.
And —final proof, my doubting friends —
Please note our run of wet week-ends!
D. H. E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2*d. per line.
Plain Ben
The most enthusiastic convert to the
idea that Mr. Chifley is Australia s
Abraham Lincoln (B. 3/12/’47) is Mr.
Chifley himself. His every word and
action confirm it. Engine-driver to Prime
Minister is to be Australia’s inspiration,
as Log Cabin to White House is
America’s
The last Federal elections turned Mr.
Ghifley’s head in this way. It was then
that he first appeared as the humble man
of the people. While other “Labor
leaders thundered and raved, Mr. Chifley
went for simplicity. At election meetings
he would get up from his chair stiffly as
if the old back wasn’t too good, slouch
casually by the mike and start chatting
amiably about the elections. The lined,
rugged face would be honest and
confiding ; the dull-toned voice carefully
devoid of oratorical embellishment and at
times almost deliberately ungrammatical,
especially if the subject were at all tech-
nical —as if to show that it was still plain
Ben Chifley even when it came to finance
and things. Disarmingly he would admit
that he could make no promises ; all
he asked was to be trusted. And he
looked so touchingly unaffected and
sincere that trust was given.
Ever since then Mr. Chifley has been
the simple-hearted toiler without personal
ambition who has taken the reins simply
because his countrymen, right or wrong,
want him to. And “Labor” has been busy
propagating the legend by every form of
publicity. We all know now of Mr. Chif-
ley’s placid domesticity, his simple habits,
his lack of social ambition. He is always
bringing things down to earth in a com-
monsense way in Parliament and Cabinet.
Abroad among the people he is always
taking his pipe out of his mouth and
drawling Lincoln drawled homely
anecdotes or observations, which to the
boys of his press “circus” are uncom-
monly shrewd. When he delivers a string
of halting platitudes in the House he is
talking to us in our own language.
But doubts have arisen. Some
expressed dissatisfaction at Mr. Chif-
ley’s vague utterances about his love
of humanity and “the light on the
hill,” when he was supposed to be
replying to critics of the banking
scheme, and were sharply reprimanded
for sneering at the Prime Ministers
genuine devotion to the service of his
fellows. But the doubters are increasing.
“Labor” is working desperately to sus-
tain the Lincoln illusion and so is Mr.
Chifley. During the debate on the pro-
posed referendum he spoke feelingly of
those who do the donkey work of the
world, and added that he had done it
himself for 24 years. Just a needed re-
minder that he is still the people’s man,
and that though things look pretty queer
we must retain our trust.
The truth, of course, is that Lincoln
was a genius, gifted with humor, imagina-
tion and great intellectual powers;
Chifley is just Chifley.— Yarrasider
(Vic.*).
Pilfering
During the last week there have been
two statements from insurance com-
panies in the press about pillaging of
goods —one company paid out £250,000.
So colossal is the amount of theft
from wharves, ships’ holds, railway
yards, trucks, stores, shops, world with-
out end.
The remedy is threefold —an outstand-
ing example of straightforward dealing
by all elected representatives of the
people; a conscious and determined
effort to create a respect for the property
of others; and heavy punishment for
offenders. Unfortunately there is a
growing tendency in Australia to treat
the wrongdoer as the party to be pitied
and the victim with indifference or cyni-
cal contempt.
One feature which should be ham-
mered home to all is that goods must
cost more. “Compo” is charged up to
the consumer, —C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
For the Wasteland
Schemes to develop Australia’s desert
inland have been many. , Dr. Bradfield’s
idea of diverting the Queensland rivers
may have worked, while J. T. Lang’s
brainstorm of piping the New Guinea
streams would at least have given the
boongs a laugh. Any type of artificial
watering would cost a lot, however, and
while such immense issues as increased
payment for members are on the books,
there is not much hope for the desert.
Whatever is ultimately done to rectify
the waste, it is a fact that much of Waste-
land could become a remarkable asset
as beef country if hardy grasses could be
induced to sprout. The drawback has
always been that, in very dry parts, grass
seed either diss a natural death or is
scoffed by birds before it has a chance.
However, a method of sowing grass
seed over wide areas, so that it will be
safe from birds, will last until rainfall and
then sprout healthy, sturdy blades, has
been discovered. The inventor is Dr.
L Adams, who comes from tjie south-
west of the U.S.A. where 50,000 acres
of desert, every bit as dry as the Nullar-
bor, are at present being sown with new
grass and are expected to prosper. A
report on Dr, Adams’s method states.
The seed of African “love grass” was
chosen as the most suitable type.. ..in
order to survive the desert hazards before
germinating, the seed has to be supplied
with its own initial nourishment. To solve
that problem Dr. Adams developed a little
seed pellet, about the size of a pea; heavy
enough to be dropped easily from air-
planes; sturdy enough to survive periods
without moisture; and capable of beginning
life with only a modest amount of help
from Nature. . .
Each of these pellets is a unit ot
natural growth in itself. Its main body
consists of clay-type soil taken from
“Stop blowing that organ!”
the land to be planted... .The clay is
powdered, mixed with fertiliser, rodent and
insect repellents and a chemical which pre-
vents mould and deterioration. This fix-
ture, with the grass seed as a core, is then
pressed into pellet-shape. Since birds, un-
aware of the hidden seed, do not attack the
little clay balls, and since germination will
not start without moisture, the pellets may
remain on desert land for months waiting
for rain When the first drops fall, mois-
ture will crack the pellet. The seed will
absorb enough water to germinate within
48 hours and, under the action of the fer-
tiliser, sprout roots in the desert soil. From
then the scantiest rainfall will keep the
grass growing and regenerating for about
10 years.
It should be worth trying here.—
Dinosaur (Q.).
Roads •
“Bughouse” (B. 19/11 /’47) need look
no further than Victoria for road-making
technique and equipment comparable
with any used in America. With its
modern plant, valued at £35,000, the
Country Roads Board’s construction
gang is capable of laying a roadway
(20ft. wide) at a rate of one mile per
day. With hundreds of others I watched
while a 60ft. width of road pavement
was laid in strips 10ft. wide along the
half-mile of our town’s main street. The
job took two days.
Most important single uqit of the
board’s equipment is the American
Barber-Greene bituminous mixing plant.
Set up as a depot half a mile from the
job, it premixes a continuous supply of
metal and bitumen which is carted to the
job by trucks running a shuttle service.
This same machine was used in the war-
time construction of the great North-
South Highway from Alice Springs to
Darwin.
The most spectacular unit m the outtit
is the tar-sprayer. First on the scene, it
lays a “tack coat” on the roadway at a
speed of 25 m.p.h. Close on its heels
comes the spreader —a drag coupled to
and pulled by a moving truck filled with
premixed material. As one truck
empties the drag is transferred to another,
loaded and waiting, and on goes the job.
Then come rollers of varying weights. A
final tamp and the work is done. Sealing
is carried out later, with much the same
routine and dispatch.
Though there are 20 men in the outfit
(10 of whom work the Barber-Greene
plant), manual work is at a minimum.
Instead of “B.’s” reluctant shovellers an
elevator raises metal from ground
dumps, filling a f6ur-ton truck in 2\
minutes. Close co-operation between
similarly fast-moving units is mainly
responsible for such a remarkable per-
formance.
That it is possible for a man to cross
a patched uneven street, go in for a hair-
cut and come out again to find a brand-
new roadway before him is no indict-
ment of the barber. It is simply
an indication of the speed and efficiency
of the Country Roads Board, bringing
nearer the day when every Victorian
farmer will have a good made road
running past his gate. — Carlyle (Vic.).
Driving some 380 miles from Sydney
to Coffs Harbor (N.S.W.), I was an-
noyed by the many rough patches in the
Pacific Highway.
In each instance the original surface of
the road was torn up and the section
was left with a “top-dressing” of metal
in large uneven lumps. On only one
patch were men working; the other half-
dozen showed no evidence supporting the
cautionary signs with which they were
adorned: “Road Work in Progress!’
Returning by the same road three
weeks later I found the identical sections
still in the same state of disrepair.
What is the reason for such ineffi-
ciency? Shortage of material or insuffi-
cient machinery, perhaps. In any case,
it is high time that the Government
directed more of the revenue extorted
from overtaxed motorists to its proper
purpose —the building and maintenance
of decent roads. The Pacific Highway
is N. S. Wales’ main coastal road, and
as such it is, in parts, a disgrace to the
State. — Mac (N.S.W.).
The Cleric’s Pay
“Biredia” (B. 26/11/ 47) states the
case of the poor parson very fairly, but
offers no solution of his problem. The
bald fact is that the funds of the church
are not evenly distributed. While the
humbler laborers are considered hardly
worthy of their hire, the incumbents in
the larger “livings” receive disproportion-
ately large rewards.
Many are called to the: ministry, but
few are chosen for the richer benefices.
No struggling Clergyman would suggest
that the bishop’s palace is too commodi-
ous or his emoluments greater than his
deserts, but many a layman is critical
of the disparity between the penury of
one and the princely plenty of another.
Genteel poverty is no longer looked on as
a virtue in an individual, but as a vice
of his employer.
Now that socialism is being so warmly
espoused in some cathedrals a practical
demonstration of the new doctrine would
benefit those who preach in chapels. —
Broad (S.A.).
Unions
The apathy of those unionists (B.
26/11/’47) is understandable when one
considers the way they are forced to join
the union. A neighbor of mine, who is
a first-class shearer, and who owns only
a 1 small property, was prevailed upon by
his district friends to take a pen shear-
ing and so help them out with the acute
labor shortage. .
All went well until he started at his
second shed; then the union rep. caught
him. Had he a ticket? The helper ex-
plained that such was against his princi-
ples and was promptly told that he could
either take a ticket right away or see the
other shed workers called off the job.
The owner desperately pointed out the
labor shortage, and the helpful neighbor
delivered his opinion of union methods.
The stony-faced rep. sat on his ultimatum.
Eventually the helper blasphemously dug
up 275. 6d. and another conscientious
objector was triumphantly added to the
list of the faithful.— Eastern (Vic.).
“Landlords”
They suffered under the depression ;
they are still penalised under the boom.
While wages and living costs rise rents
are controlled at a ruinous level, but
rates and taxes are jacked up.
A storekeeper I know lived in a cot-
tage attached to his shop. When he re-
tired from business he leased the shop,
formally agreeing to be responsible for
the water rates of both premises.
Naturally he expected that* the charges
would remain at the old figure. To his
dismay he found that by becoming a
landlord instead of a mere owner he had
made himself liable to punishing in-
creases. The original rates for both
premises were more than doubled,
although water consumption remained
the same.
While this may be legal it is not rea-
sonable. It is legal robbery, and is only
one more proof of the ancient proverb
that fools build houses for wise men to
live in. It is also one cause of the hous-
ing shortage. A man who builds a house
for his own use is a “little capitalist” and
must suffer for his sins. If he builds
one tb let he becomes a land “lord” and
a “parasite” and is treated as such by
tenants ahd authorities alike. — One (S.A.).
Shoddy
A woman bought a pair of shoes
for a nine-year-old boy, paying 245. 6d.
for them. In 10 days the soles wore thin
and a cobbler said the rubbish was past
mending.
It is no use trying to wipe out this
sort of thing with greater supervision of
manufacturers and retailers. That only
adds to the hordes of bureaucrats who
already batten on the taxpayer. The
right answer is a stiff jail sentence. And
what about “naming” the makers and
marketers in the press, over the air and
by notices in front of their own premises?
—Wynpeda (Vic.).
In Defence of Duelling
The end of duelling in the British Em-
pire during Victorian times was not an
unmixed blessing. True, many high-
spirited young fellows with no particu-
lar skill in arms were done to death by
bullies who were masters of swordcraft
or the pistol. , That, however, was but
one side of the custom. Public men had
to be more careful how they referred to
rivals; in days when a gross insult might
well be wiped out in blood.
Politicians who make privileged attacks
on fellow-members and non-Parliamen-
tarians would be in an unhappy situation
were the duel as popular as it was in
eighteenth-century England. Their victims
could then call them out, and refusal
would mean public ridicule. Generally
those guilty of such conduct are only
mouth-fighters.
Knowledge that too unbridled a tongue
might mean a choice of pistols or swords
at dawn would be a great stimulant to
discretion. — Lyle (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
The4o-hour week means the extinction
of that old union principle one man,
one job. The shorter working week, has
enabled many men to take two and even
three jobs—l know one who is a builder,
a theatre usher and a week-end contrac-
tor. Unless the 40-hour week is to be
made a farce, unions should see to it that
their members stick to the one job.—
W. P.T. (N.S.W.).
According toi Mr. Turnbull, M.H.R.
for Wimmera (Vic.), the chairman of
directors of the “Sunraysia Daily” re-
ceived in Melbourne at the same time a
copy of his paper from Mildura and a
letter from London, both having been
posted on the same day. Even allowing
for the f-«st that the letter came by air
and the paper as second-class mail, it
sounds absurd, yet it is by no means an
unusual occurrence. I reported a simi-
lar thing in The Bulletin eight years
ago. Airmails from England have been
greatly accelerated since then, while
mails within the Commonwealth are
slower now than they were before or
during the war, the only acceleration
Australia can show being the war-time
increase in the cost of postage.
M. L. M. (Tas.).
Australia has always known the “a&-
good-as-Labor” politician, to whom has
now been added the as-good-as-Commo
Labor man. 1 suggest that the latter
should be known as “Co-Lab.”—E. and
O.E. (Tas.).


An Ideal Forever
At Christmas and at the dawn of the
New Year, when the reverent words
"Peace on earth and goodwill to all men”
are strong in the hearts of our people,
ideals of Red Cross, which are ideals of
sacrifice and service, shine gloriously in
the tradition of the Christmas message.
To the thousands upon thousands of its
helpers and to all humanity Red Cross
sends its warmest Greetings for "Peace
on earth and goodwill to all men.”
Through the coming year, with your aid,
Red Cross will continue its great work
of mercy and healing.
This space has been donated to the Red Cross by
HARBOTTLE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.
Distributors of
VICKERS GIN and GLENCOR WHISKY
