

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF
Va
sOI
THE HOUSE OF SEP PELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 68—No. 3529
Wednesday, October 1, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
KILLINEY HILL WATCHES OVER DALKEY ON DUBLIN BAY
small but prosperous coastal town of Dalkey and the
surrounding countryside are interesting for the extensive
remains of watch-towers and stone walls. These solid fortifications,
probably built from the abundant local granite, were erected to
defend the town and harbor against the frequent incursions
of Irish pirates who,- at one time, swarmed the channel.
But just as much as these seafaring outlaws, the ancient
sect of Druids have left their mark on this part of
Ireland Druidical altars and circles are to be found in
the district, while a very fine example of a pyramidical pillar
still stands in the neighborhood of Bally brack, close by. The
dominating feature in the landscape of Dalkey is Killiney Hill,
which commands such a sweeping panorama of Dublin Bay and
its shores.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAII
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, a*
advertised »« the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
RECENTLY PUBLISHED
GEORGE AND MARGO
By Roland Hoffman. A deeply-moving
story of a man and his house of dreams, 8/6
PATHS TO THE GALLOWS
The factual, thrilling stories of real-life
crime, famous modem murder trials ..6/6
murder in white pit
By John Barrington. The limited edition
of the mystery romance that thrilled
Europe ' 4 / 6
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty. Ltd.
Central House, Little Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
THE GREATEST NOVELIST.
When John Cowper Powys declares —
indeed, roars —in Dostoievsky (Bodley
Head) that that writer was “the greatest
of all novelists” and that The Brothers
Karamazov is “superior to all the novels
ever written” he at once sets up, of
Course, a current of antagonism in the
reader. We are prepared to admit that
Shakspeare was the greatest writer who
ever lived ; but to claim ‘supremacy for
any other practitioner in the special fields
of literature makes all men go mad with
rage.
Personal taste comes into the question ;
personal prejudices; and, more often
than not, that envy of the riear-great or
the newly great which makes men come
to literary discussion not with love but
with a knife. And to arouse this sort
of frenzy is precisely—and a shade too
obviously—Powys’s intention. The more
provocative he is, the more interest he
'is likely to arouse. The present commen-
tator, having some liking for Dostoiev-
sky’s novels, and more for John Cowper
Powys’s, is quite willing to be mildly
provoked to the defence of, say, Dickens,
Balzac, Conrad, Cervantes, Rabelais or
anyone else who might reasonably be set
up in opposition.
- There is, it is true, a case to be made
out for Dostoievsky; and Powys, allow-
ing for his formidable exuberance of
style, argues with reason as well as with
thunder. He defines greatness in the
novel in these terms:
A good novel, then, must contain char-
acters that are convincingly real, playing
their part against a background that is
convincingly real, in a series of events that
arb of absorbing interest.
So far there is nothing to dispute; but
also nothing to prove that Dostoievsky is
in any way superior to Dickens. In fact,
if the definition stopped at this point, and
Dickens’s immortal characterisations of
people more “real” than any in the
world’s literature were matched against
Dostoievsky’s tormented morons, there
would be no question as to which way
the verdict would go.
But the definition does not stop here.
All criticism by all critics, excdpt the very
purest appraisals of style, form and
characterisation, is likely, on the closest
scrutiny, to be found to spring from per-
sonal taste, not an absolute judgment but
a relative. If a man likes birds, he will
like poems about birds; but that does
not, as a matter of absolute judgment,
make bird-poems any better than,
say, bee-poems. Daily-newspaper Aus-
tralian art critics of the moment like
paintings of slums ; but that doesn’t make
a slum-painting intrinsically a better
work of art than a painting of a gum-
tree. Critics who are also writers tend,
naturally and disarmingly, to admire
writing which 'is rather like their own ;
and, recalling The Glastonbury Romance,
it is quite clear than when Powys, elabo-
rating his definition of the great novel,
values Dostoievsky above his rivals for
“a super-lunary crack” in his writing,
he is applauding in the Russian what is
the special quality of his own adventures
in fiction. Powys, a wild, mystical Pan-
theist, has found a “super-lunary crack”
in nature; Dostoievsky does the same
thing with human nature;
Of all the great novelists, Dostoievsky
is the closest to Nature. This does not
mean that like Hardy he devotes large
spaces of his time and the deepest clair-
voyance of his being to the close observa-
tion of scenery. It means that since men
and women are the most formidable por-
tion of Nature for both good and bad —
and how unfair, when you come to think
of it, is our use of the word “bestial”
as a term of obloquy!—the novelist who
makes the best use of the “real reality”
of human nature is the novelist who is
nearest to Nature.
Here, then, is where absolute judg-
ment becomes personal. There is a good
deal of rather mawkish pietism in
Dickens, but little spirituality of the
tragic kind ; and if you want from the
novel, as Powys does, and as he finds in
Dostoievsky, the sense that man is not
just a comic individual on this eajth but
an exile from heaven, a spiritual creature
writhing in more than mortal torment,
then, as a matter of personal preference,
you might easily regard Dostoievsky as
the greatest of all novelists.
An absolute critical decision to. that
effect is another matter. Instead of de-
manding'spiritual ecstasy and agony from
the novel you might just as reasonably
demand their exclusion, holding that
Dostoievsky invades the territory proper
to the poet and the mystic, and that Field-
ing and Dickens, who were content to
observe the comedy of the human animal
Within the confines of this earth, more
truly and more resolutely fulfilled the
requirements of prose fiction. When a
man becomes a demented angel, or a
devil, you lose something of his humanity.
This direct contradiction of Powys’s
outlook might be equally difficult to
justify as a principle of absolute criticism.
Who is to say, finally and categorically,
where the territory of prose ends and
that of poetry begins? And who is to
define the measure of mysticism that may
be let loose in either field without turn-
ing art into chaos? But the conflict
between the novels of Dickens and those
of Dostoievsky is not so much between
realism and super-realism, between flesh
and spirit, between the natural and the
supernatural, as Powys would have us
believe, as, simply, between artistic con-
trol and the lack of it.
It is significant that Powys himself, as
he admits in the end, does not really like
Dostoievsky’s novelsr—“lt is, I say, quite
impossible for a timid British bookworm
of my old-fashioned type to give him-
self up without reservation to the despe-
rate lead of a Dionysian medium like
Dostoievsky through whom the whole
Russian spirit, with all its contradictory
impulses, rushes like a pentecostal wind”
—and it is also significant , that,
throughout his book, he never mentions
Conrad: for it is the lack of control in
the “medium,” the “pentecostal wind,”
which makes Dostoievsky, with all his
titanic powers, not only a trifle repugnant
to Western readers but also, from a
strictly artistic point of view, inferior to
such novelists as Dickens who were
masters rather than victims of their art —
and particularly in this respect inferior
to Conrad, who was just as much aware
as Dostoievsky of the immortal shadow-
ing the mortal, eternity surrounding time,
but who never allowed this visionary in-
timation to shake the magnificent balance
of his mind.
If, as has been maintained by good
authorities, it is his balance of mind we
ultimately most admire in Shakspeare,
then Powys is wrong in terming Dostoiev-
sky, in whose works there is always
something orgiastic and uncontrollable, a
surrender of the mind to the “pentecostal
wind” of the unconscious, “the Shak-
speare of novelists.” The Blake of
novelists would be nearer the mark.
The Shakspeare of novelists, perhaps,
has yet to be born. It is not Conrad,
for, as he himself admitted, he “wrote
smaller” than Dickens. It is not Dickens,
for he lacked the deepest music of
tragedy. Powys, most likely, is postu-
lating the impossible; for by the time a
novelist had developed the fecundity of
Dickens, the balance of Conrad and the
spiritual intensity of Dostoievsky he
would not be writing prose but poetry.
The Shakspeare of novelists, in short, is
Shakspeare.
Had Powys adopted this viewpoint,
however, his readers would have been
deprived of a delightful and profound—
if rather long-winded—essay. As he says
himself, it is the side-issues raised by
his argument that will most engage the
reader’s interest. There is a beautiful
analysis of “the deep play-instinct” of
humanity—“ This is the deepest impulse
we possess and by means of its startling,
shocking and profane vitality we are en-
abled at certain moments actually to
enjoy the tragic spectacle of human
destiny.” There is a heart-warming
defence of “the great shameless classics.”
There is the perfect description of poor
Walter Pater’s meticulous and mincing
stylism—“Walter Pater, that brutally
neglected and comically dainty master
of a magical style.” There is a thunder-
ing denunciation of Middleton Murry’s
idea of “love.” There are fascinating
comments on Shakspeare, Dickens,
Wordsworth, Proust and the Greek
dramatists.
And through it all there are the dis-
tinctive depth and tang of John Cowper
Powys—a difficult and capricious writer,
but one of the great men of our time.
Powys, incidentally, has written a book
on Rabelais to follow the Dostoievsky.
Three Art Books.
Three slim, paper-backed books, The
Australian Artist, The Society of Artists’
Book and Art Appreciation all seek to
explain art, or some phase of it.
The slimmest of the three, Art A pprecia-
tion, is written by R. Haughton James.
Mr. Haughton James’s message is aimed
at the uninitiated, the average man. “An
artist,” Mr. Haughton James states, “is
not a special kind of person. Actually,
every person is a special kind of artist.”
The quotation is from Chapter I, en-
titled WE’LL START WITH YOU. But
in the foreword the author has already
got off to a good crisp start:
State the unvarnished truth, that art
matters, and be written down a crank.
Say, as Shaw did, that art is the only means
of education except torture, and earn the
waggish laughter due to a successful buf-
foon. People are touchy about taste. They
will tell you themselves they know nothing
about art, but they know what they like.
To say what they like is mostly muck
gets us nowhere There seems to be no
simple guide. Too much cant; too many
opinions; too much to grasp. They get
lost —small wonder —then discouraged, and
finally join that bone-headed five per cent,
that never gives art a thought.
It’s not more than five per cent, be-
lieve me. Because until the inevitable hap-
pens and the child is brutalised, beaten,
beguiled, mocked, maddened and misled
into a dull acceptance of the despicable *
■> standards of our present civilisation every
human child is potentially an artist....
Perhaps. He is also, perhaps-, poten-
tially a blacksmith. Or a butcher, or a
bookmaker or a tramguard. And Mr.
Haughton James, in some of his later
psychological excursions, seems to argue
—slightly —against his own conclusion.
For, in his table of psychological types
he implicitly admits the great psycho-
logical truth, inequality.
Apart from a kind of evangelical
angriness in the book, there is a good deal
that may be of interest to beginners. But
too sweeping generalisations, too haughty
condensations, and a general tendency to
beat, beguile, mock, madden and even
mislead the reader into line with Mr.
Haughton James’s theories are grave dis-
advantages in the book as a whole.
In The Australian Artist, a quarterly
published by the Victorian Artists Society,
Haughton James is represented by an
article on “The Living Model,” crammed
full of quotations. One of them deals
with, the conscientious form of apprentice,
ship a carpenter called Ching adopted
before building a drum stand:
When I am about to make such a stand
I guard myself against wasting my vital
power. Through ordering my mind I estab-
lish a quietude. After three days of such
devotion I am oblivious of any rank or
title, after five days I am oblivious of fame
or blame. On the seventh day lam un-
conscious of my own limbs and of my
physical frame
The story is by Chuang Tzu, circa 350
b.c. ; a time, presumably, when Housing
Commissions were unheard of.
This, and similar articles, are much
better than the somewhat doctrin-
aire approach of Art Appreciation, since
they deal with specific phases of art,
easily covered by a few pages. They all
concern drawing, and other contributors
are Alan McCulloch, Adrian Lawlor,
Noel Counihan, Joseph Burke (“Herald”
Professor of Fine Art, Melbourne), and
Dr. Ursula Hoff. All are well illustrated.
Professor Burke’s study of “Line and
Scholarship in English Drawing” is so
closely tied up with the plates (Hogarth,
J. Bergner, McCubbin, Tom Roberts,
color woodcuts by Hokusai, figure studies
by Michelangelo, Blake, Holman Hunt
and others) and contains so many cross-
references that it is impossible to quote
from it. But, as read, or rather observed,
it is admirably lucid.
Noel Counihan in “The Social Aspects
of Australian Drawing” disposes of
names and centuries altogether too lightly.
There are reproductions or drawings by
Tom Roberts, Withers, Russell Drysdale,
William Dobell, Vic. O’Connor, and
James Wigley ; discussion of Phil May
and The Bulletin black - and - white
school; the usual tribute to Norman
Lindsay’s genius in the form of an
attack ; and some praise of Russell Drys-
dale, almost comically denied by the re-
produced work. Some inkling of this,
perhaps, prompts the qualification:
The formal blinkers and cerebral approach
which have affected Drysdale’s vision have
led from time to time to the appearance of
mannerism and affected sentiment in his
work, factors which seem to me to re-
tard his development.
A similar lapse into commonsense leads
the writer to observe of the official war
art of Donald Friend that “behind great
wit a penetrating, serious and sensitive
outlook can generally be found. But one
will not find these qualities illuminating
the drawings of a man who could only
see the A.I.F. as a vast moronic mass.”
On that scathing note it is as well to
leave The Australian Artist. The Society
of Artists’ Book for 1947 (Ure Smith
publication) is the most handsome
publication of all and has an abun-
dance of reproductions. A striking
thing about these is that many of
them look better than Jhe originals or,
more correctly, there is a general levelling
which makes inferior work look as good,
or almost as good, as fine paintings
A portrait by Lambert, of Miss Thea
Proctor, stands out even in reproduction.
Other works which seem good in their
own right, as distinct from those improved
by reproduction, include Frank Mc-
Namara’s “Waterfront, Balmain,” Joshua
Smith’s “Madame Louis Blanc and Fran-
coise” —the original was impressive in its
detail—S. Wopdward Smith’s “Morelli’s
Barn” —the original purchased by Howard
Hinton, and now at Armidale Teachers’
College—Arnold Shore’s “Bush Glade”
and an oil by Margaret Olley.
Articles include one on silk-screen
painting by Margaret Preston, a lively
outline of the trials and tribulations of
art teaching by Frank Medworth, “Art
Criticism,” by Bernard Smith, an intro-
duction by S. Ure Smith and an opening
address by Mrs. R. G. Casey.
VARIOUS VERSE.
Stars.
O storm of honey-bees,
out of what fields do you come ?
From what chill flowers of night
is your gold honey drawn,
and to what hive is your flight
tending forever home ?
O flight of golden birds,
or swarm of motes in a beam,
or fish of the dark sea —
she to whom I cling
and he who fathered me
fly with you into a dream.
A child who travels asleep,
wrapped in his golden hair
and caught to her breast, I lie.
O swarm of honey-bees,
to what far hive do you fly ?
for we, too, follow there.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
The Children.
The children like people approaching
from distance;
Growing up after us, like afternoon
shadows.
The minnows, where now are sharks —
mischance
If they dine upon us who coaxed from
the shallows
The impetuous fry. But the children
grow.
And they laugh at our age. And the
children know
Our anger; and they laugh at their
parents ageing.
“But the children age us" we say.
“Children plaguing
The old people now." But they grow and
we do nothing:
Their army hems us in; we do not repent,
we rue nothing.
The children grow and surround us; till
we smile
At the strength of our children; for our
neighbor.
Poor man, lives childless. How his wife
and he toil:
Yet badinage these shall repay for all
his fine labor.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
The Unborn.
Twice looking into others' eyes
In mirrored darkness I have seen
My body’s child, iris ringed.
Where I, reflected, should have been.
Tiny and all alone she stands.
My unborn daughter, grave and neat,
And the first time I cried aloud —
“I shall be shoes for those bare feet.”
The second time she turned her head
To hide the dazzle from her eyes—
“My hand,” I said, “shall shade your
glance
And keep you from the sun’s surprise.
“I shall grow like a tree for you.
Myself the blossom and the fruits,
And you shall draw the sap from me
And sleep within my sheltering roots.”
Oh child, so eager and so still.
What shall I give you for a sign
When the third time I see you stand.
To call you forth and make you mine?
ENGLAND,
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


I
m
m
m
i\
7,
/ M
/
>
K_
iIN
• :•:•>•
x-xy //> ■ ' <
V* , %
X # 4
rv
vV-X-.
4
4
& »
4
■J,
?3 te
ii
/
/
m i
SSi
15
m
xy
/
jSkw
:
Ii
SSS
:
■
/Z
Jf
m
:
|j£s
h
v.;.. 5
WALLPAPERS
We can offer you a large and
varied selection of economically
priced Wallpapers in pleasing
designs to suit all tastes and with
Friezes and Borders to match.
Wallpapers
Per roll, from 3/- to 24/-
Friezes, per yard, from .. 3d.
Borders, per yard, from l|d.
• Wallpapers—Third Floor.
Above.
36-inch Printed Floral Chintz design
to greatly enhance the beauty of any
home . . . designs on a background of
blue or burgundy. No cpns. 11/11 yard.
We have an extremely large range of dainty,
frilly Crossover Curtains with frilled valance
attached . . . complete, ready to hang.
Prices, 13/6, 27/6, 29/6, 37/6, 39/6
No coupons.
• Furnishings—Third Floor.
Richly piled, hand-made Indian Carpets bringing with them
all the glory of the magnificent East. What a luxurious
addition to any home! Choose yours in Blue, Camel, Rust
or Fawn grounds. Size 9ft. x 12ft. approx. £36/11/9
Rugs to tone with above, size sft x 2ft bins., price, £4/7/6.
Size 6ft. x 3ft., £6/6 A Size 7ft. x 4ft., £9/16/-
• Carpets—Fourth Floor.
Comfortable Hassocks are again available in a multitude
of different fabrics in all colours. Oblong or round shapes
are available. No coupons. Price .. f 8/11 each.
• Furnishing Drapery—Third Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS 9
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night I Box 27X2C, G.P.0., Sydney


STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
THE MAGIC ALPHABET
The Lessons of which are specially compiled
lor HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BRYEN HOAKE,
M.8.1.M.5c. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
ŵ
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
I has al) the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a traction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Pupil*
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
emil .rrirri, („ Australia t,, SEND FOB ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE •
LOOK!
Beehive Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
The "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
Immediate
Delivery.
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
cluding saw and planer
blades, £l7/10/-. Also
woodturning lathe outfit,
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
IJin. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, does
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States..
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
Cut TOBACCO Direct to YOU
ẁ
Here’s an opportunity to
get GOOD tobacco. Indi-
cate on the coupon which
kind you want.... send
M. 0., P.N., or cheque and
get a full pound carton
by return mail. Mail
coupon today.
Post Free anywhere in N.S.W.
Name v
Address
No. of Tobacco required
5.8.1/10/’J, 7
576
READY-RUeb d *
ROGERS No. 3 (Fine Cut).
This is a smooth silk cut tobacco,
satisfying to the palate. Rolls
easily: keeps moist and fresh and
makes a cool smoke.
ROGERS No. 1 (Pipe).
This tobacco is made irom a sel-
ected blend of mellow leaves and
is particularly suitable to pipe
smokers who prefer a cool, satis-
fying and readily burning smoke.
Metropolitan prices are less Bd,
23/-
per lb.
24/4
per lb.
ROGERS TOBACCO CO.
4 Bayswater Road, Darlinghnrst, N.S.W.
VUH9N6 TH€
GERMAN
IN PLAT/ON
fl POSTAGE STAMP
COST SOO, MILLION
MARKS
777/5 COULDN'T
'"happen /N AUSTRAL/A
BUT CARELESS SPENDING
ENCOURAGES INFLATIONARY TENDENCIES
KEEP YOUR MONEY OUT OF HARMS my
-save for SECon/ry/
V
'tv' KVv^
iMf
vmi
.« ««>*&*<S.
o Alrt ‘ay V,/V n£
h oUs %h
%%0.
SOME CH/NESE CO/WS ARE
PIERCED SO THAT THEY CAN BE
CARRIED ABOUT ON A rattan OR
SIMILAR STRING,.. DON'T CARRY
YOU ft SAYINGS ABOUT .. INVEST
THEM NOW AT BETTER THAN BANK
INTEREST IN THE FOURTH
SECURITY LOAN /
>/
fell
Ijrr; ;
L* C i,i t.-CjU
A VEUV 6CT
FIT !
FOURTH
SECURITY
LOAN
BONUS
WILL BE ISSUED IN
DENOMINATIONS
of £fo, £50,1/00
£5OO and£{.ooo
AMOUNTS TO
FIT ALL
<^°i
THE AUSTRALIAN
BOWER 8/RO is ah
__ inveterate collector
HIS BOWER IS USUALLY HIGHLY ORNAMENTED..
collect your savings and make an advance
SUBSCRIPTION AT ONCE TO THE 4?SECURITY LOAN
FOR A NEST £6O IN THE FUTURE
INCOMES
j-Tu, Hu uiU
MANY PEOPLE STILL
TRUST THEIR FUTURE
TO LUCK ... BUT
HAVING tS THE.
GUKt WAV TO
SECURITY FOR
BETTER THAN BANK
INTEREST ON yOLTTR,
SAVINGS - MAKE AN ADVANCE / '*l
SUBSCRIPTION TO THE 4*s£cumioAti
P4SL.4.IU
FACTS ABOUT THE
FOURTH SECURITY LOAN
The Fourth Security Loan opens on
October 29. Bonds will be available
in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO,
£5OO and £l,OOO, paying interest at
the rate of 3|% per annum for 12
years. You can make a fully-paid
advance subscription at once, and
interest will be paid from the date
your application is received by a
bank. Invest to-day through any
Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of poem “The Nighr Before Christ-
mas,” by C. C. Moore.—4loo.
To communicate with- relatives of the late
George Lambert.—4lol.
To buy first edition English translation of
Karl Marx’s Das Kapital. —4lo2. k
To communicate with relatives of Thomas
Hope, one-time gold prospector and a native
of England.—4lo3.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Reciter. —4104.
Two young Scots girls (18 years each), resi-
dent Glasgow, would like to correspond with
young Bulletin readers. —4105 and 4106.
Information Sought.
Prospects of advancement in the R.A.N. for
a lad joining the service as a radio or radar
mechanic ?
Recruiting in the Radio Mechanic Branch
has been abolished pending the formation of
the new Electrical Branch, which will absorb
all qualified radio mechanics. However, it is
anticipated that the normal age for entry in
the substituted ratings of Electrician’s Mate
and Radio Electrician’s Mate will be from
to 21 years, pay commencing at the
rate of Bs. 6d. per nay, plus allowances, rising
to 20s. per day on advancement to the Chief
Petty Officer rate after approximately nine
years’ service. There are opportunities for
ratings with exceptional professional and edu-
cational qualities to be promoted to warrant
and commissioned rank. It is suggested that
you interview the Resident Naval Officer,
Fletcher-street, Birkenhead, Port Adelaide, S.A.,
for further particulars.
* * * *
(1) How to remove mortar from the surface
of brickwork? (2) How to clean brick fire-
places ?
(1) This should be done as soon as possible
before the mortar has had time to harden and
stain. Wet the mortar first thoroughly, and
cover the patches with silver sand. Apply to
this, cautiously, a 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. solution
of hydrochloric acid and rub until the mortar
crumbles. Then apply more water arid wash
away. Swill with clean water. Next wash
with soap and water and finally rinse and wipe
down. (2) When ordinary scrubbing with hot
water and soap fails to clean them satisfac-
torily they should be scrubbed down with an
old brush dipped in a diluted solution of spirits
of salts or hydrochloric acid. This usually
proves quite effective. Three parts of water
should be added to one of acid, and the solu-
tion applied carefully, so that it does not come
into contact with the cement between the bricks,
for the acids act on cement and the jointing
would become loosened. After treatment all
traces of the chemicals must be rinsed away.
* * * *
How to neutralise a newly-made cement-lined
pool in which water-lilies can be grown ?
Fill container with water, then dissolve suffi-
cient permanganate of potash (Condy’s crystals)
to make the water pink. Leave stand for 14
days, then draw fluid off (this can be kept for
garden spraying), scrub the surface with a hard
brush and wash out thoroughly. Fill with clean
water, and planting can safely be done.
* * * *
What are the possibilities of making a modest
livelihood from handweaving as a homecraft?
Where can tuition be obtained from elementary
to advanced stages?
A satisfactory livelihood can be made from
handweaving at home. The Society of Arts
and Crafts of N.S.W., ll2a King-street, Syd-
ney, and several retail firms are always able to
sell well-made, attractive handwoven articles.
Instruction is given to weaving students at the
society’s North Sydney studio from elementary
to advanced stages. They also have a postal-
guidance service for those unable to attend
classes. Suitable equipment can be procured
and a limited supply of yarn is available.
* * * *
(1) Demand for crocodile skins, and names
and addresses of buyers? (2) What parts, other
than the skin, can be sold ? (3) Name of a
good book on crocodile hunting?
(1) There is a good demand for crocodile
skins, particularly baby crocodiles. The follow-
ing firms would be interested to receive skins:
Broomham Bros., High-street, Willoughby;
J. B. Johnston, Short-street, Chatswood; J.
Bayley and Sons, Lord-street, Botany; and
Birdsall Bros., Beresford-streel, Mascot—all
N.S.W. Home and Co., 60 High-street, Pres-
ton; G. Pizzey and Sons, 29 River-street, Rich-
mond; J. Kennan and Sons, River-street, Rich-
mond ; and Michaelis Hallerstein and Co., 441
Lonsdale-street, Melbourne —all Victoria. (2)
The only other part of the crocodile which may
have some commercial application is the oil,
and some information concerning this is being
obtained. It will be forwarded to you later.
(3) In Crocodile Land, by lon L. Idriess.
,* * * *
How to make a very approximate water-
bottle barometer which indicates falling pres-
bottle almost completely with water, then
insert cork having a very fine hole. Suspend
bottle with mouth downward. No change in
water level will occur if atmospheric pressure
rises, but when this falls water level will drop
very slightly and water will drip very slowly
through" the hole in the cork. In due course
water level will drop until “barometer” be-
comes ineffective and bottle has to be filled
again.
Brief Answers.
J.K.: Stated development common at your
age; kidney diagnosis satisfactory. Measures
for relief (electric massage, support, etc.), with
medicinal treatment, are well advised. Opera-
tion usually postponed where discomfort not
pronounced. Continue with mixture prescribed
and note result... .H.M.D.: Cats develop skin
disorders if diet is wrong.. Heating foods,
cheese and the like are best avoided, but give
mashed greens if a grass run is not available.
Meat should be lightly cooked, fish raw. Bran
heated in the oven, then rubbed into the coat
and brushed out, is an excellent dry : clean.
Allow fresh water in preference to milk to
drink. See a vet. if rash persists. Apply a
vegetable oil or mutton fat for relief of irri-
tation W.E.C.: Write to the N.S.W. Public
Library, Macquarie-street, Sydney, and ask to
be sent a photo, copy of Chapter 23 of Reigel’s
Industrial Chemistry, on the subject of soap
and glycerine. The library would inform you
of the cost of this... .H.L.C.: The addition of
preservative to butter intended for sale is
prohibited. It used to be the practice to add
from ilb. to jib. of boracic acid to each 1001 b.
of butter, and this is still done in some
countries. If the butter is for your own use
you could add about £oz. to £oz. of boracic
acid to each 61b. of butter. Doctors generally
do not favor the adding of preservative to
butter... .P.W.: The Commercial Directory of
Malaya, 1947, obtainable from Cheah Kim Bee
and Co., P.O. Box 149, Singapore P.A.N.:
A good Victorian farm with stock, plant and
residence that will carry about 40 cows usually
costs about £l5O per cow at present time....
E.L.M.: Rhododendrons and azaleas require
gravelly and well-drained soil, but avoid lime.
Both thrive best under light cultivation; re-
moval of leaves and rubbish is all that is neces-
sary. Give an occasional watering when dry
conditions prevail E.W.: Litmus paper
(obtainable at chemists) placed in a mixture
of the soil and water will turn pink if the
earth is alkaline, and blue if the soil is acid.
....H.M.: Kerosene emulsion is not sold by
merchants. To makfe,* boil of common
soap in one gallon of water. Shift the con-
tainer from fire, then stir in one pint of kero-
sene, and allow mixture to cool. Use three
tablespoons of the mixture in one gallon of
cold water for those thrips and insects....
C.H.: Citrus trees which fail to set fruit should
be given a dressing of sulphate of ammonia—
about ilb. to each, well watered in. Repeat
the treatment three or four times at fortnightly
intervals. A month later dig in a good helping
of rotted manure about the trunk. If this
fails replace the trees with fresh stock....
L.P.D.; (1) Ground treatments by themselves
are not regarded as a protective for white ants.
Proper attention to the preventive measures
outlined in the leaflet posted are suggested. (2)
Sodium arsenite has been used for ground
treatment and a 1 p.c. solution applied at the
rate of 10 gallons per 100 square feet is sug-
gested. Sodium arsenite is extremely poisonous
and its use will involve a definite health hazard.
. ...J.McL.: Odd volumes are of no value to
collectors. Send list of other books to Tyrrell s
Bookshop, 281 George-street, Sydney F.R- ;
Value, if in good condition, is 425.


Missing Friends.
IN the Estate ol ELIZABETH DOROTHEA ROSEN
deceased.—PURSUANT to an Order of tha Supreme
Court of Victoria made in Action 1944 No. 266 in which
The National Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany of Australasia Limited is Plaintiff and Henry
Richard Eames is Defendant Herman Rosen (or
Rose) and his brothers John, Robert and Maximilian
(sons of Herman Rosen formerly of Bendigo Butcher
and Margretha (or Margaret) his wife all formerly
of Bendigo Victoria or their respective legal per-
sonal representatives or the persons claiming through
any of such to be the next-of-kin of Elizabeth
Dorothea Rosen (the daughter of the said Herman
and Margaret Rosen) late of Koondrook in the State
of Victoria Nurse deceased intestate who died on the
third day of February 1943 are by their Solicitors
on or before the 28th day of November 1947 to come
in and prove their claims at the office of the Chief
Clerk Law Courts William Street Melbourne or in
default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said order The second
day of December 1947 at Eleven o’clock in the fore-
noon at the said office ia appointed for adjudicating
upon the claims. DATED the 18th day of September,
1947. —ERIC S. VANCE, Chief Clerk.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO ALFRED WILLIAM KNIGHT whose present
address is unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with a notice
to you to appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of LORNA ISABEL MARY KNIGHT of
Batchelor Street Queenstown in Tasmania Married
Woman praying for a dissolution of marriage In de-
fault of your so appearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said petition proved and pronounce judgment
in respect thereto.—AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purposes aforesaid within Thirty days
■after the date of this publication an appearance must
be entered at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart.— (l.s.)
J. R. REX, Principal Registrar. N.B.—Friends of
the abovenamed Alfred William Knight who may
see this advertisement are requested to bring it
under oo S “otice.—JOHNSON, MITCHELL & LAUGH-
JtlN, 38 Elizabeth Street, Hobart, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
CHANGE f LIVING
FREQUENTLY CAUSES IRREGULARITY
It is important to remember that changes of
food and living conditions invariably disar-
range the system, and when that occurs nature
needs assistance, at least temporarily. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are especially suited
for this purpose. When going away for a
change, always make a practice of having a
bottle with you and taking a dose occasionally
to stir the liver and keep the bowels acting
regularly.
HORSES
DR
P
LLS
ẃ
Finished in woven-sfriped, wafer*
proofed canvas, wifh leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
is increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINSTON LTD.
Wholesale only
9.
Lf&ON TO HU AKE A
!s&■;,
*•*&**»
SI MENTAL
OCXTAIL
*»-iV
V: -■
m
&
3//
Qo
of
e/>
Qo
<*s
***
3/1
Of
ei
£>
£&
C V
Sh
r*.
Of
&
cr
O'
Os
54
Of
4$
?//
Ca
ft
•56
<>r
4,
-
I 09
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
Recipes of fifty popular, appetising and easy-to-
mix cocktails have been brought together in this
invaluable FREE book. A copy will be forwarded
with pleasure if you write to the United Distillers
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 7J9 G, Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE 17 S 0
VGI7/33
A good cocktail does so many things in such
a friendly way helps guests to mix, flavours
the conversation with laughter, persuades
the appetite. Your guests will highly
approve this one.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
L.H.C.: Use the natural words in their
natural order, beware of capital letters, and
don’t talk about “sources sublime” L.P.W.;
In rhymes like those liberty degenerates into
a riot A.S.: “Drift to the City” is drifting,
with a blessing, back to the bush... .F.L.: A
feeding for nature in it, but the verse is flat.
Try a short story H.M.S.: Parodies need
to be very, very good. Yours is not bad
A. 0.: Language, rhythm and rhyme lack the
sting of originality, but the sonnet’s worth
trying elsewhere F.McL.: Drop that horrid
jargon S.R.: Your bullets fly slow, wobbly
and wide H.M.8.: Nearly. It’s inconclusive.
G.8.8.: “The Fossicker” won’t find gold
here W.D.: Sign a protest about it, but
don’t take to verse An Idler: It got an idle
grin J.M.: We join the moon in “utter
consternation” C.8.M.: You are the third
poet this morning, who doesn’t believe that the
poor bookmaker is a public benefactor
Wombat: Shows signs of combat C.8.K.:
Chiefly notable for the valiant attempt to rhyme
“Apollyon” with “bullion”... .H.8.L.: The
poem, too, is up the pole R.L.8.: Defence
of the melodiousness of the dingo would have
been more convincing if you hadn’t been forced
to introduce the “gringo” A.8.C.: Cheer
up 8.E.: The correct emotions for poetry;
but the bare statement of them doesn’t make
a poem G.K.8.: Two pithy lines, then:
Nationalise the banks?
No, thanks!
H.L.A.: If you will call, you’ll find
“Hogan’s Dog” chained up somewhere in the
Editorial Dept., waiting to be collected
U.K.: Not enough weight to the ton in your
mining story C.C.; Your bagman travels
an amazingly rough track P. 8.: The plot
is as thin as the hound of Lazarus J.W.:
Five of your corpses cremated. There’ll be
an autopsy on the other N.T.C.: What a
dismal yarn! And the plot is pretty weak,
too A.W.: So all that happened was the
awakening of Charlie’s conscience. It might
just as well have slept... .N.M.: Surely some-
thing more thrilling than that happened at the
crossroads S.T.: Your mysterious stranger
has been stalking the earth since the days
of Adam and Eve R.L.; Neither quite good
enough A.P.O’S.: Dull use made of good
material K. 8.: Somehow it lacks the sense
of reality... .TJ.: Rather risky, wasn’t it, for
Gwen to buy a father like that a double-
barrelled shotgun? E.P.P.: Crudely written
and very dismal G.C.: A gurgle of pompous
polysyllables. Simplicity and sincerity—they
are the two virtues likeliest to carry a writer
to the cashbox J.McY.: Well, it’s a cry
from the heart:
I am drowsy in the afternoon
When the sun crawls in on the forms-of-bills,
Incorporeal hereditaments,
Light Railway Acts, precedents, and Wills.
I do solemnly declare,
And consciously believing same—
That were I made of sleeping draughts
We’d not differ in our trading name.
Mines, quarries, metals, ores,
Substrata coal, stone, clay,
Liberty and power to use, employ.
Are mine—all in a legal way.
O Novation, Land for open spaces,
From dust, documents, deeds, dead fact,
Carry me back to Mortgage Gully,
Under the Provisional Tramway Act.
M.A.J.: You can write; the trouble is
that you picked little to write about... .S.S.:
You’ll do no good until you put life—real
life —on to paper W.R.W.: Quite a good
ending, but you go through a terrible lot of
desert to get there... .A.R.C.: You haven’t told
it well enough G.S.D.: If we printed it
the other 149 people who sent in the same
triangle in the last 12 months would accuse
you of stealing their plot C.W.: Much
improved, but still below publication stand-
ard S.A.: Pale sentimentality P.JJ.: The
burglar who made his entry “with a swift and
graceful movement” is a novelty E.V.:
“Dust” is too dry altogether H.R.S.: Takes
too long to get to the finish A.8.J.; You ,
made us blush furiously, but the story is hope-
less T.F.: Stories of old drunks should
have more spirit in them F.0.J.; Is it a
story or a puzzle?... .V.W.; Always you’ve
got ideas, and always you’ve also got too little
respect for space S.N.W.: Your skill doesn’t
match your sincerity A.M.: A fair story
cluttered with pseudo-technicalities H. 8.:
Commonplace spieling yarn 8.A.: Most of
your efforts need just a little more polish....
L.M.8.: A mere gush of tears makes a sorry
story E.D.: Your pug was counted out
after a close fight... .L. 8.: No particular enter-
tainment in it W. 8.; Developed mental
corns in following its wanderings... .J.J.:
You only start what might have been a yarn.
E.M.: Below the mark.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.P.M.: If you must draw in charcoal apply
a fixative before sending them off H.D.:
“A Day at the Circus” sentenced to a life
term in the basket W.A.C.: From what
merry-go-round did those wooden horses break
1005 e?... .F.R.M.: Throw away your compass
and rule and try drawing freehand... .G.S.:
We printed the same gag a couple of weeks
back LJ.: Not keen on the lass with an
arm sprouting out of the middle of her back.
E.H.H.: You say that you’ve studied
“Hogarth, Tenniel, Dore, Phil May and Row-
landson.” Well, that accounts for your curious
style J.M.A.; Finished well behind the field.
. ...E.8.5.: We’ve published some queer draw-
ings, but we’ve never published a sketch of
two cuckoo-clocks exchanging impolite words.
. ...J.G.S.: We can recall attending the burial
of that jest away back in the ’nineties S.W.:
Still scratching away 8.D.: “Modem Pied
Piper” is piping his way home L.P.: We
can get along very well without any of them,
thank you N.R.: Why is it that all your
characters give the curious illusion of walking
two or three feet above the ground?... .C.R.:
You went wrong with the first stroke.


Australian Consolidated Industries Limited
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Before proceeding with the Report and Bal-
ance Sheet for the year ended 31st May, I
would like to refer to our Chairman, Major-
General H. W. Grimwade, who is not able to
be with us today because he is convalescing
after a recent illness, and I am sure his many
friends amongst the Shareholders of this Com-
pany wish him well and trust he will be with
us again before very long.
During his absence he has nominated his son,
Mr. John Grimwade, to act as Alternate
Director, and I feel sure that Mr. John Grim-
wade’s assistance on this Board will be of
material value. We welcome, him here at this
table today.
Since the last Annual Meeting we have had
the misfortune to suffer the loss of our esteemed
friend and colleague, the late Mr. F. J. Smith,
who passed away after a short illness. Mr.
F. J. Smith became associated with glass manu-
facture nearly thirty years ago, and his wide ex-
perience was of considerable benefit and help
during the building-up period of this Organisa-
tion. His kindly manner and sincerity endeared
him to his many friends.
Now I refer to the Balance Sheet and
Accounts, which you will have had the oppor-
tunity of studying before coming to this Meet-
ing. The profit, earned by the Parent Com-
pany, for the year ended 31st May was £376,964,
compared with £330,550 for the previous year.
Dividends of 7 p.c. per annum on the Ordinary
Shares and 9 p.c. on the Preference Shares,
absorbing £329,787, were paid, both dividends
being at the same rates as were paid for the
previous year. The consolidated profit for the
year is £479,980, which exceeds the profit of last
year by an amount of £83,368, but it is lower
than the corresponding profit of £492,978 for
the year ended March, 1941, which was the best
year since the reorganisation of our Company
in 1939.
Regarding the Balance Sheet, I do not think
it necessary to discuss every item in detail, but
I draw attention to an increase in the amount
shown in General Reserve in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet, which is now £3,405,444 com-
pared with £2,616,146 last year —an increase of
£789,298.
Over the period beginning with the reorganisa-
tion of the Company in 1939, certain contin-
gencies to provide against possible reactions at
a later date have been set aside in a number
of the Subsidiary Companies’ books. It is con-
sidered that the need for these reserves for con-
tingencies is not now existent in view of changed
conditions and, therefore, your Board decided
to transfer the surplus to General Reserve.
CASH RESOURCES.
Later on in my Address I will refer to the
works we are establishing in Singapore, and
other enterprises which are at present engaging
our attention. Reference to the Published Ac-
counts will show that our cash position is such
that we are not able conveniently to finance
these projects out of our own resources.
The payment of our high taxation and also
the recent dividend has taken all cash available,
and you will notice , from our Consolidated
Balance Sheet that our Bank Account is now
overdrawn. Since balancing date, a good por-
tion of the Government Securities have been
x-ealised on, and the shares and investments that
are listed on stock exchanges would not be
readily realisable without disturbing the market
value to an extent that would be unrealistic.
Therefore, it is considered prudent for your
Directors to ask the Shareholders to authorise
that the Nominal Capital of the Company be
increased from £5,000,000 to £8,000,000.
This will enable your Board to issue further
.shares at some future date, if they deem it
necessary. I will be referring to a proposed
resolution later on at this Meeting in connec-
tion with this increase in Nominal Capital.
Some interesting figures that I consider worth
placing before you are:
Total amount paid to employees for
wages (to 7100 employees =
average per annum, £335 each) .. £2,380,000
Total amount paid to 7300 Share-
holders for Dividends (= average
per annum, £45 each) .. .. £329,787
To earn the profit of £479,980 for the year
your Companies employed £9,017,598 of Share-
holders’ money and, therefore, earned a profit
of 5.3 p.c. for the year.
Whilst on this point, I cannot help mentioning
the erroneous impression probably gained by
many when they see publicity given to Com-
pany profits. If the detail as to the rate of
profit on funds was stated, it would place the
profit percentage in its real perspective and
would establish at a glance whether or not it
was actually reasonable. The laymen, not
versed in accountancy, cannot be expected to
realise the significance of figures unless they
are simply presented.
OWNERSHIP OF COMPANY.
Your Company is owned by 7300 Share-
holders, comprising:
48 p.c. Females.
43 p.c. Males.
6 p.c. Trust Estates and Trust Companies,
which, on behalf of beneficiaries, hold
Shares in your Company.
3 p.c. represented by other Companies.
Residents of Australia own 87 p.c. of our
Shares. Approximately 12 p.c. are held in New
Zealand, where we have established various in-
dustries; 1 p.c. outside of Australia and New
Zealand.
GLASS CONTAINERS.
As you know, this industry is the original
around which all of our other industries de-
veloped. Since 1915 its progress has been
steadily maintained and has kept pace with the
mechanisation of the manufacture of glass con-
tainers, contributing its share to the general
development of the glass industry throughout
the world.
In recent years technical progress has in-
creased production, and it has resulted in off-
setting the tremendously increased labour costs.
I refer to the industrial trouble which
occurred at the Spotswood Factory in November
last, during which time the Company was pre-
vented from producing any containers. Your
Directors were greatly concerned at the calamity
which imposed great hardship upon the many
manufacturers and bottlers, also the consuming
public. •
The future outlook in regard to production
is very uncertain in view of the greatly reduced
supplies of Soda Ash. We are informed the
Australian production is likely to be duplicated
in approximately two years’ time providing coal
is made available to the plants at Osborne
(South Australia). Meanwhile, when procurable,
limited shipments are imported from overseas,
but, due to world shortage, nothing approaching
sufficient supplies is arriving. Unfortunately,
we have many idle glass furnaces due to
shortage of coal and soda ash.
NEW ZEALAND.
Our New Zealand Subsidiary operates plants
for the manufacture of glass containers, corru-
gated cardboard cartons, etc., and plastics.
Production under the prevailing conditions has
been quite satisfactory.
FLINT, BLOWN GLASSWARE AND
LIGHTING WARE, ETC.
In this industry, production for the year was
a record, due principally to the absence of petty
labour disputes which cause unnecessary serious
loss to both the workers and the industry.
SHEET AND FIGURED ROLLED GLASS.
The figured rolled plant produced the full
rate of its capacity throughout the year, but
the devastating hailstorm that occurred in Syd-
ney in January caused such extensive damage
that it was necessary to reorganise our pro-
gramme for rolling to enable the Company to
supply approximately an extra one million
square feet of wired glass to quickly replace the
broken windows.
As with the glass container Companies, the
supply of soda ash is of paramount importance.
Of course, the amount we receive will deter-
mine the amount of glass we will be able to
produce in the coming year.
Like many others, this Company is suffering
from a severe shortage of labour. Absenteeism
is still very rife, and in some sections it goes
up to as much as 25 p.c.
In New South Wales a severe strain has
already been put on the industry by the intro-
duction of a 40-hour week as from Ist July,
1947, and, of course, has resulted in increased
costs of production generally.
This condition will naturally be much accen-
tuated when the 40-hour week becomes general
throughout the Commonwealth on January 1
next.
CASE-MAKING.
In ordinary times the making of crates and
cases for various subsidiaries does not present
insurmountable difficulties, but, with the short-
ages of labour and material, it has become a
serious problem, mainly through the lack of
virgin case-making timbers.
In order to conserve timber and to avoid the
holding up of deliveries of bottles, sheet and
figured rolled glass, etc., we have had to impress
upon customers the urgency of returning all
empty cases and crates quickly to ease this
package problem.
PLASTICS.
The resuk of the year’s trading was affected
by the serious industrial dispute which existed
in Victoria and necessitated closing down of a
large portion of our Factory. We reopened
in May last, and I regret to say that we are
still working below our normal capacity on
account of the shortage of labour, also materials.
During the year under review our plant has
been increased by new machinery. We have
opened a factory in South Australia, and our
Engineering Company has further orders for
new machinery.
Under this heading we have recently pro-
duced a new type of decorative board, which
is used for covering walls, furniture, window
fittings, etc. This material is outstanding be-
cause of its qualities, which are heat-resistant,
waterproof, stainproof, hygienic, durable, inde-
structible in normal use and chemically inert.
It is made in a wide range of colours and de-
signs, and is being well received by the general
public.
ENGINEERING.
Concerning general engineering, this section is
concentrating on work and services for our
associated Companies. There is so much work
involved in this direction we are unable to
undertake work from outside at present, but as
soon as we are able to meet our own demand
we will be desirous of carrying out a wide range
of this highly skilled branch for outside organi-
sations.
We recently registered a Company under the
name Aerex (Australia) Company, which manu-
factures Industrial and Mining Fans. The
Works Manager has just recently returned from
England after visiting Aerex Limited, where he
acquired valuable data on production and tech-
nical matters, and substantial development is in
progress.
METAL STAMPING AND SPINNING.
Regarding metal stamping, this is an im-
portant adjunct to the glass-container industry,
inasmuch as it supplies the caps manufactured
from tinplate used as closures on such con-
tainers.
The supply of tinplate has been far below re-
quirements ; consequently the works has not
been able to supply all the needs of the trade.
CORKBOARD.
Production of this material is increasing and
is very heavily in demand for cool room and
food storage and handling installations. Ample
quantities of corkwaste are available, although
the price and transport are three times greater
than pre-war. We anticipate quite a good turn-
over in this product in the near future.
FIBREBOARD PACKAGING AND
PRINTING,
Under this heading we produce in Sydney
corrugated chipboard containers.
Like most other products made by our Group,
there is a strong demand for its products.
The plant produced containers as far as the
available quantity of paper and board permitted.
The future prospects of this section are en-
tirely governed by the tonnage of paper avail-
able, and it is not anticipated we can receive
additional supplies from the local manufac-
turers for some time to come.
A small plant operates in Perth, and we are
now installing a unit in Adelaide.
STEEL FABRICATION.
Bernard-Smith (Pty.) Ltd., one of the lead-
ing Steel Fabricators in New South Wales, is
engaged in general structural engineering, mainly
of the heavy type, and at present is carrying out
important construction jobs for the Bitumen
and Oil Refineries (Australia) Ltd., the largest
of its kind undertaken in Australia, and also
the fabrication of the Sydney County Council’s
new power-house. Great difficulties are being
encountered due to the shortage of material,
but, .under prevailing conditions, progress must
be regarded as satisfactory.
STEEL DRAWING.
Bruntons Bright Steel Pty. Ltd. is occupied
in the drawing Of bright steel for general
engineering requirements, also the manufacture
of bright steel bolts and nuts. There is a great
demand, but, unfortunately, output is again
restricted to the limited amount of raw material
coming forward.
AXES, PICKS AND FORGED TOOLS.
Our Subsidiary Company — Hytest Axe and
Tool Pty. Ltd. —operates factories in Sydney
and Melbourne. Manufacture includes axes,
picks and mattocks, adzes, sledge hammers, etc.,
and is being extended to take in the making of
other lines.
Speaking of axes, it is with pleasure I say that
our Hytest Axes have become firmly established
on the Australian and New Zealand markets,
and letters of commendation are constantly
being received, confirming the high quality of
this tool,
DEVELOPMENT. •
During the year we built a new glass furnace
at our Sydney plant, which has the greatest daily
production capacity of any glass-bottle furnace
in the world. It is patented abroad and in
Australia, and possesses outstandingly efficient
features, and is a major development in the
glass industry. Your Company holds the ex-
clusive licence for Australia and New Zealand,
It marks a great technical advance in glass
manufacture, and I am proud to say it is a
most valuable acquisition to our Company.
INSURANCE.
During the year a Subsidiary Company named
A.C.I. Insurances Pty. Ltd. was incorporated.
The object of forming this Company was to
carry the insurances of associated Companies.
The general policy, which it is intended to
follow, is to build up a fund, and as the fund
grows so will the amount of the insurance
which is retained.
OVERSEA.
After full investigation, your Directors de-
cided to establish the glass industry in Singa-
pore. Much difficulty was experienced in
obtaining a suitable location for the works;
finally, however, a very fine site with ample area
for expansion over the years was secured. The
first unit of a modern glass-container-making
plant is now in course of erection, and provid-
ing soda ash is available, the plant should be
in operation in the early part of next year.
Later, we will be extending to engineering,
plastics and other branches of industry.
The high manufacturing costs ruling in Aus-
tralia, accentuated by the five-day week, elimin-
ate any possibility of supplying Australian-made
glassware to the East, where production is con-
tinuous for seven days per week, which, inci-
dentally, is the accepted custom throughout all
countries with the exception of Australia. We
are confident that our Singapore Works will
be able to compete in those markets.
MANUFACTURE OF CROCKERY.
I wish to give you important information
under this heading. For some time prior to
the war your Directors contemplated starting
this industry in Australia, but war intervened.
Subject to the reasonable tariff protection, we
shall proceed to build the factory in the near
future. This industry is somewhat kindred to
our glass industry, and its establishment will
be aided by our Engineering and other associ-
ated Companies. Production will feature
modern methods, and the industry will be an
added acquisition to Australia. We have now
a technical representative abroad in connection
with our local establishment of this industry.
TASMANIA.
Your Directors propose to manufacture glass
containers in Hobart as soon as circumstances
justify it. The matter is one that has our
serious consideration, and we hope that con-
ditions will soon "warrant us making a start.
STAFF.
It is my pleasure to thank the Management
and Staff for their excellent work throughout
the year. The conditions have been most diffi-
cult. Their zeal, co-operation and loyalty have
considerably helped us pull through a trying
time.
I congratulate them on their sterling efforts,
which we much appreciate.
CONCLUSION.
We are now well into current financial trading
periods, which all end on 31st March next for
our operating Companies. Although present
conditions are less favourable than those that
ruled during the financial year just ended, pro-
duction is our country’s greatest need, and I
am sure that, as soon as those engaged in our
local industries realise that production is not
going to be continually held up by failure of
essential supplies, they will respond to the
Nation’s need. Costs are rising and shortages
of vital commodities are acute, but, in common
with all other industries, we hope to overcome
these difficulties. We have the necessary skill
in management, design and craftsmanship, and
our reputation for fair dealing and high quality
stands as high as ever. I trust that the adverse
conditions will soon be arrested and that
sound conditions for the development of Aus-
tralian Industries will prevail.
The retiring Directors, Major-General H. W.
Grimwade and Mr. A. E. Smith, were re-elected
Directors.
Mr. A. G. Hooke was re-elected Auditor to
the Company.
The following resolution was also passed:
“That the Capital of the Company be in-
creased to £8,000,000 by the creation of three
million new shares of £1 each.”
Vote of Thanks to the Directors and Man-
agement was proposed by Mr. L. L. Evans and
seconded by Mr. D. C. Robertson.
The Meeting then closed.


SOPHIE-our neighbor
by Gloria Rawlinson
THE clattering and banging in the
yard ceased for a few minutes, leav-
ing a sudden silence that was broken
by Sophie’s deep contralto voice
singing “In the Gloaming O My Darling
Don’t Fence Me In!” Wally, Sophie’s
husband, was torn between annoyance
with her higgledy-piggledy way of doing
things and admiration for her ability
to sing two songs at once and keep in
tune.
Then the hammering and banging
started again. Sophie was putting the
last clouts into one of the two Army huts
she had dismantled at the Old Camp and
re-efected herself. Wally had offered to
help her, pointing out that she was put-
ting the roof on inside out but had been
sent to get breakfast for himself and
Norty, their son.
The huts were painted a dingy green
and had belonged to the American Army.
On the roof of the inside-out one there
were 12-inch letters reading “Ha, De!
Perce and Texas!” The other, with
ill-fitting walls, for some reason best
known to its war-time occupants, was
called “Screaming Meemies.”
WALLY could hear Sophie yoo-hooing
across to their next-door neighbors.
“You’ll come to the meeting to-night,
won’t you, Berry and Jock?” Wally
peeped outside. Yes, they were on their
porch, and he thought there was a look
of consternation on their faces as they
surveyed Sophie’s New Housing Scheme.
“What a day I had yesterday,” Sophie
was saying, “I’ve been to nearly every
house rounding people up, because as I
told them it’d be a shame if this man, who
has a heart of gold, came to our district
and nobody turned up. I’m always on
the go!”
“What’s the idea of Ha, De! Perce and
the Screaming Meemies?” asked Jock.
“Oh those! They are just a couple of
extra rooms in case any relations want to
stay —we have a lot of Maori relations,
you know, always wanting us to put them
up for a few days. In the meantime the
goats can have one and I’ll put odds
and ends and tools in the other. Norty’s
gone, Jock, you’ll miss your train!”
“We’ll be at the meeting, Sophie,” called
Jock as he ran down the path.
“Look, Berry,” Sophie went on. “Before
I forget, you tell Jock that if ever he’s
late and thinks he’ll miss the train, just
to call me and I’ll shave him in five
minutes. I’m very good at shaving ; 1
once shaved both Wally and Norty in
ten and a half minutes. Wally doesn’t
have to go on shift until tomorrow after- -
noon, so he is going to help me carry
the pulpit.”
Wally winced. But his face cleared as
he heard kind little Mrs. Jock’s voice.
“Was that a pulpit you were making
yesterday, Sophie?”
“Yair! This evangelist has his own
tent and hymn sheets, but his pulpit fell
off a lorry and got smashed to pieces—
only fit for firewood now, I’ve knocked
one up out of two old wash-tubs and a
barrel. I’m always on the go. I’m
making you and Mr. White a boot-box
each.”
“Thank you, Sophie,” murmured Berry
in such a little voice Wally could hardly
hear her. He took another peep outside.
Yes, she was wearing the blue smock and
looking so kindly at Sophie! These
young neighbors were very nice people.
He spent a lot of time in Jock’s work-
shop, where Jock made funny little
pictures, lino-cuts he called them. They
were certainly neat and plain—you could
always tell it was a ship or a pond with
two ducks on it. So different from
Sophie’s wool-worked mottoes.
Berry thought so, too. But she was
far too kind-hearted ever to let Sophie
know what she thought about the im-
prints Sophie left all over Berry’s home.
Sophie had helped them to move in with
“Hey! This book-case needs a few
nails in it!” Bang, bang! “These chairs
don’t seem too firm to me!” Bang,
bang! “Only this one little table? Dear,
dear! I’ll just run home and knock you
up one out of an old packing-case I
have under the house.”
Berry and Jock still ate off this home-
made table, turning their backs to
the wool-embroidered motto in the
Sophie-stitch that hung on the
kitchen wall:
ProcrasterNation is the thief of time,
Where snails creap they leave slime.
Berry, after a visit from city
friends, would sit down and imagine
their conversation at the bus stop.
She pretended that they said, “What
a nice girl Berry is! Isn’t it just
like Jock and Berry to keep those
dreadful things their neighbor gives
them, all mixed up with their mahogany
and Wedgwood?” But she knew it
would be really, “My Gawd! Did you
get an eyeful of the bedroom rug made
out of two sacks with berries and thistles
and their names in yellow wool! Berry
and Jock have gone down since they
came to live out in this hole. And those
goats! No wonder Jock tries to make
a joke out of them by calling them the
Brains Trust!”
Of course. Berry admitted to herself,
the goats were Awful. The four nasty
creatures followed Sophie about like
dogs, but even to her they exhibited
extreme surliness and an inconvenient
determination to have their own way. But
Berry and Jock liked Wally and Norty
and Sophie. Especially Sophie, whom it
was impossible to snub, and for whom
no bugle ever sounded Retreat.
Mr. White, an elderly retired gentle-
man, once took a gun to Sophie, She
said it was because she had broken a
bottle of milk which she had taken from
his gate-box and was carrying up to the
house for him. But district opinion was
that he objected to her vandalism in his
front garden, where she had cut down
two big trees, a pohutukawa and a
walnut, one week-end when he was away.
She said she did it because old people
like Mr. White needed all the sun they
could get.
THIS morning Wally had what he
called The Rabbits in his mind. These
little elusive thoughts bobbed about and
put him off his breakfast. For some days
now they had troubled him. He could
not get them all together and make sense
out of what he was thinking. Over a
week ago he and Sophie were coming
home from the pictures. It was very
dark, no moon, and two people brushed
past them. Two men talking. One of
them said “Sophie . . .” “Ah, yes,” said
the other. And then The Rabbits were
off! He could not catch them.
What was it the man had said! “Inter-
fering tuff, fuff! . . .” No, he told
himself, he only imagined it. Besides,
what could it mean, anyway? Fuff, fuff,
fuff! Well, look here now, a lot of
people laugh like that, “Fuff, fuff,
fuff!” Or blow their noses like that,
“Fuff, fuff, fuff!” Over and over his
mind ran The Rabbits. He pondered and
pondered. He must work it out. Can’t
let that go!
Sometimes he solved the riddle and
then forgot the answer and had to start
all over again, “Interfering fuff, fuff!”
Ah, he had it! What he thought he
heard was, after all, a harmless remark,
and nothing to do with Sophie. The
man had merely said, “Ain’t feeling too
good!” Or better still, “Ain’tcha feeling
full?”
Wally took another peep outside. He
liked to watch Berry—no offence meant,
and none taken, he was sure. Her bright
head bobbed up and down as she weeded
her lettuce-bed.
“Now you Brains Trust,” he heard her
say. “Stop spitting that dirty chewing
gum at me. Sophie, they think I am a
kind of eccentric relation.”
Such a clear happy-morning voice. He
hoped Emma, his daughter, at school in
the city, would grow up like Mrs. Jock
and wear a blue smock. Sophie, he
sighed, liked her dresses to be made of
stout fabric in yellow or red, all startling-
and splendid clothes —a style of dress
that at least had the advantage of enabling
you to see her afar off, hull down on
the horizon.
This morning she wore a carpenter’s
big apron, bulging with nails, hammer
and hacksaw, over a mustard - colored
dress. Wisps of hair, black and straight.
hung down her neck. Emma, he reflected,
had black curls. He watched Sophie run,
with elephantine playfulness, to look in
the letter-box. When she came away
empty-handed she had a jubilant expres-
sion on her face, as if she was thinking
“There, I was right, I knew there
wouldn’t be one.”
Like Paddy when he killed his pig. “It
didn’t weigh nearly as much as I expected
—but then, I never thought it would!”
“No letter from Emma?” Wally found
himself asking.
“Of course not,” she laughed. “Why,
did you expect one?”
But Wally did not answer. The rabbits
had started again.
“Interfering fuff, fuff!” No, the man
didn’t say that at all. Who was the man?
Why did he make a remark like . . .
Oh, people often go “Fuff, fuff, fuff!”
when they laugh.
LATER in the day Berry came to the
fence to watch them set off with the
home-made pulpit. The Brains Trust had
made up their minds to go with Wally
and Sophie. Nothing could persuade
them that they were neither wanted nor
needed. From playful bunting and kick-
ing they resorted to malicious biting. One
of them sat down in the pulpit, which
was lying on its side, and refused to
budge.
“It’s the tubs,” said Sophie. “They just
love these tubs. They chew bits off
them.”
“Is that the stuff they spit at me?”
asked Berry, trying not to laugh at
Wally’s ridiculous plight, as three goats
set on to him.
Then Berry pulled up a handful of her
precious young carrots and Sophie enticed
the goats into the Screaming Meemies and
locked them there. They set out, Sophie
in front and Wally carrying the back legs
and an altar cloth that Sophie had hastily
cobbled in red and green wool.
First they met Mr. White —or nearly
met him. He crossed to the other side of
the road when he saw who was coming
and did not reply to Sophie’s boisterous
greeting.
“I wish I had never touched his damn
milk bottle!”
“Perhaps, after all, it was the trees you
cut down.” A little suggestion from
Wally that seemed to madden Sophie.
“Look, Wally, it was not the trees!
I ought to know —none better! I had
just taken the bottle from his box
when it slipped out of my fingers
and broke on the concrete. Actually it
did not break until it touched the con-
crete, so it really was not my fault but
the concrete’s. He just rushed inside
the house, grabbed his gun, rushed out
and pointed it at nje, ‘Get off my
property, you big HOOF! And stay off! ’
That’s what he said. It was the bottle of
milk all right. I know.”
Wally was not listening—the rabbits
were'skipping through his mind at a great
rate. Could it have been Mr. White?
No, certainly not. Mr. White was too
refined to use words like “Ain’cha feeling
full!” He could not imagine Mr. White
rubbing his stomach —such a thin man
would never over-eat. Well, then, “Inter-
fering ...”
THEN they met Miss Gregg, who dis-
approved of Sophie. But Sophie could
never smile an unfriendly smile, or put
a brake on her lively interest in every-
thing and everybody. She dropped her
end of the pulpit and told Miss Gregg all
about the evangelist. Miss Gregg listened
politely but Wally could see that she did
not approve. She walked away, saying
over her shoulder, “I think you run
around far too much, Sophie. I notice
your son, North, is still wearing that
coat with the sleeve turned round the
wrong way. I mentioned it to you over a
year ago.”
“Well, Wally, how do you like that?”
asked Sophie, picking up her end of the
pulpit. “Fancy her noticing a little thing
like that! I’m always on the gof And
Norty doesn’t mind, much. It is a bit
uncomfortable, I daresay, but I am mak-
ing him another.”
It was not Miss Gregg. It had been
a man’s voice, “Fuff, fuff, fuff.”
Then they met Mr. Keyes, editor,
printer and sole owner of the “District
Sundial.” Sophie and he greeted each
other with explosive heartiness, and he
nodded kindly to Wally.
“I’m leading the singing,” Sophie told
him, and he promised to look in and
write up the meeting. Mr. Keyes was
never niggardly with space. When he
printed about local gatherings he put
everybody’s full name in. Berry sent
the “Sundial” to friends with her name
marked in blue pencil.,
Once Jock had really made news. He
wrote a letter to the “Sundial” and it
was printed under big headlines. State of
Footpath at Pott’s Corner—Something
Must Be Done —Resident Writes on Be-
half of Women with Perambulators! Mr.
Keyes had a drawer full of letters from
ex-residents thanking him for the “Sun-
dial,” which kept them up-to-date.
It was not Mr. Keyes. He was much
too kind to call Sophie an “Interfering
fuff, fuff! ”
There was the usual crowd sitting on
benches or leaning against the verandah-
posts outside the hotel. Wally knew
most of them Old Identities, lorry-
drivers (who had turned left' instead of
going about their business straight down
the Great South Road, and so arrived in
a district with a Licence), small punters,
putting their half-crowns in the dubious
keeping of the Clan McShortodds,
several of whom were always shuttling
from hotel to Billiard Parlor.
Sophie told them about the evangelist,
and two of the McShortodds and an
Old Identity, Ben Bracewell, promised to
be there. It was none of these gentle-
men, Wally told himself. They were all
friendly and he had done quite a bit of
business with the Clan McShortodds.
Old Identities were seldom out late at
night. He exonerated the Hotel crowd.
When they got to Mr. Sung’s fruit
shop, the pulpit broke down. One of its
legs fell off and Sophie had to borrow a
hammer from Mr. Sung. Sophie had
already arranged with Samuel to hand
out hymn sheets at the meeting. It was
not Samuel, Wally was sure. He’d know
Sam’s voice anywhere and besides,
Sam’s wife was a kind of relation of
Sophie’s.
Wally was very glad when they arrived
at the tent. There was nobody in, but
Sophie put up the pulpit and draped it
with the altar cloth. The whole outfit
looked most depressing. Uncomfortable
forms, a few rows of assorted chairs, and
an evil-looking harmonium, or some kind
of old-fashioned instrument —its long lips
turned back in a snarl, showing ancient
yellow teeth.
“It’ll look more cheerful tonight when
the lanterns are lit,” Sophie said as they
walked home through heavy rain.
BY night the rain blotted out every-
thing beyond three inches of the
eyes of meeting-goers. Berry and Jock,
Sophie and Wally set out in raincoats,
oilskins, goloshes and gum boots.
“Fine Weather for Ducks!” became
the password. People joined them as they
struggled along the Main Highway. They
stamped into the tent smiling bravely at
each other. They wrung out sodden
neckcloths, the bottoms of their trousers
and skirts and shook water from their
hats.
“Fine Weather for Ducks!” said Mr.
Sung, handing them each a hymn sheet.
Berry and Jock sat in the front row,
which Sophie had reserved for friends.
Then came a row of Maoris which she
had drummed up from the far end of
the district. As the tent filled she be-
came more and more enthusiastic, naming
people as they arrived, and yoo-hooing
to special friends.
“Mr. and Mrs. Hammond, with that
cold! The Meades, and look, Berry,
Mr. White! Yoo hoo! The Rorkes and
Tui. Oh, Berry, I wish Miss Gregg would
come and she has! Yoo hoo! How
are you, Janey? And Opehia, Neri,
and Anna, how is James, tell him I’ll cut
his ingrowing toe-nails out tomorrow.
Hullo, here is Mr. Ganner. Yoo hoo!
Fine Weather for Ducks!”
Everybody felt shy and brave. They
had kept faith with Sophie, irrespective
of creeds, beliefs or unbeliefs —they were
all there. They poked each other in the
back and waved hymn sheets in each
other’s faces. The evangelist and his wife
came out of a slit in the canvas partition,
took a quick inventory of heads, and
smiled lovingly at the congregation. Then
she sat down to the unlovable harmonium
and he, with crickety liveliness, hopped
into the home-made pulpit and gave the
password.
“Friends, I want to thank you for
turning out on a night like this. Fine
Weather for Ducks!”
After this jocosity he became grave.
“Brothers and sisters, before I go any
further, I want to ask you just one
question. Who is your neighbor?”
Outside the rain fell in grey sheets. The
tent sprang a few leaks and here and there
(Continued on page 32.)


&
w
i
V
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com*
plexion! UseCuticura
Soap regularly its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
*At SANK LBNDS MONEY FOB PERSONAL
O
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL RANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
% ia bank lends money bob pebsonai n*
RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 F*ltt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Ho useholders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O.’s PALESTINE HEADACHE.
The illustration on this page is the map
of a mighty headache. It is the majority
Palestine partition plan of U.N.O.’s
special investigation commission, made
public on September 8. The commission
an 11-nation “neutral” body, not in-
cluding any of the “Big Five” —was on
the job for three months. In its report
it mentioned working at “great pressure,”
and it foresaw that “defects will be dis-
covered” in its plan “by those who have
been studying the Palestine question for
years.”
Just how thoroughly the thorny
problem has been studied is indicated b>
the fact that this was the thirteenth major
commission to have been thus engaged.
"Hie other 12 gave their proposed solu-
tions, and every proposal came to nothing.
As long as 10 years ago a British com-
mission decided, as U.N.O.’s has done,
that partition was the only hopeful solu-
tion. The minority plan of the U.N.O.
commission recommended a federal
unitary State; this was much the same
as the British proposal of last February.
The majority partition plan has the
grudging approval of the Zionist Jews,
as well it might have, without any grudg-
ing ; they’ll be lucky if they get it to have
and to hold without as much fighting as'
even their terrorists will have a stomach
for, against opposition not so restrained
by moral considerations as the British
have been.
Zionist apprehension was reported by
a London “Times” Jerusalem corres-
pondent when the U.N.O. plan was pub-
lished : “Zionists who not long ago main-
tained that Britain has strategical reasons
for wanting to stay in Palestine are now
a little confounded to perceive the British
public itself more anxious than the
Zionists to have Britain withdraw,.. .A
few comments are now appearing to the
effect that treaties might be made with
Britain safeguarding her interests on her
lines of communication.” This is very
different from Zionist comment and lack
of co-operation up to now, with the like-
lihood that even more virtue will be seen
in much-abused J. Bull before it’s all over.
Practically every Arab leader has
warned that decision to establish a Jewish
State in Palestine will bring armed conflict
to the Middle East. While the Jews,
despite one or two half-hearted criticisms
of the plan, are clearly waiting to wel-
come endorsement of it by U.N.0., the
Arabs are bitter. One of their spokes-
men promptly stigmatised the proposal as
“a flagrant violation of the natural rights
of the Arabs in their own country.”
The Arab Higher Executive, also,
denounced the plan as “absurd, impracti-
cal and unjust,” asserting that any attempt
to establish a Jewish State in Palestine
“will only lead to trouble and bloodshed
and probably to a third world war” ; it
would “set Palestine and the Arab East
on fire.” The Arab statement declared:
The Arabs shall never allow a Jewish State to
be established in one inch of Palestine. They
shall never accept the fait accompli by power
politics, by secret manipulations and interna-
tional pressure. The only solution acceptable
to the Arabs is the declaration of the inde-
pendence of Palestine as an Arab democratic
sovereign State. Not a single Jew will be
allowed to migrate to Palestine The Arabs
will fight to the last man to defend their
country, to defend its integrity and to preserve
it as an Arab country.
N.Y. “Herald Tribune” noted that the
consistent theme running through the
U.N.O. report was “the constant feeling
of frustration over the tremendous diffi-
culty of the task. Again and again there
appeared the implication that no ‘solu-
tion’ was possible except one that would
try to be equally fair to both sides and
then would have to be made to stick by
force.” The U.N.O. report stated:
Taking into account the fact that devising
a solution which will«be fully acceptable to
both Jews and Arabs seems to be utterly im-
possible, the prospect of imposing a solution on
them would be a basic condition of any recom-
mended proposal.
“Enforcement measures on an exten-
sive scale,” the U.N.O. report warned,
“may be necessary for some time.” The
“Herald Tribune” summing up on the
report was that the lines were now
drawn “for a battle that appears certain
to keep the unhappy Hold Land in a
state of strife regardless of what sort of
attempted panacea the Assembly tries to
work out.”
Most British comment on the partition
plan reflected the all-round British
desire to be rid of the sole-mandatory
job. Perhaps the most outspoken com-
ment was that of London “Economist”;
With partition itself there can be no quarrel.
But the particular plan of partition put
forward by the United Nations committee is
both unjust and unworkable. It is unjust be-
cause far too much of Palestine’s wealth and
territory has been conceded to the Zionists....
It is unworkable because of the distribution of
population between the two States, each of
which would consist of three non-contiguous
areas.
Most American comment reflected
support of the Zionist aims. N.Y.
“Times” summed up the situation which
backgrounds the U.N.O. consideration:.
Palestine’s Jews number, 625,000. -They want
free immigration of additional Jews and an
independent Jewish homeland but disagree on
how these aims are to be achieved. The Arabs
number 1,200,000, mainly peasants whose
customs have changed little through the cen-
turies since the time of their prophet Mo-
hammed. They want Jewish immigration
stopped. The British, who rule under a 1922
League of Nations mandate, have an occupa-
tion force of about 100,000 men. They want
to keep their hold on strategic Palestine.
That last sentence is no doubt trufc as
far as the wish goes, but the wish is evi-
dently impractical; and most definitely
the British —Government or public, the
public especially—do not wish to carry
the mandate for a single day longer than
can be helped, alone. This last word is
rather remarkably, and most unfairly,
overlooked in most American comment.
The British position, that Britain will not
be prepared to shoulder alone responsi-
bility for implementing a U.N.O. decision
with which it does not agree, has been
grossly misrepresented in the American
press, even in the more (usually) respon-
sible newspapers. Even such a fine news-
paper as N.Y. “Times” has used coloring
on this issue, as shown by the way the
following extract is worded:
The conflicting aspirations of the three groups
in Palestine have brought years of violence. A
major cause is the determination of the British
to limit Jewish immigration to 1500 a month
to placate the Arabs. Thousands of European
refugees tried to run the tight British blockade
of the Holy Land; failed; were denied entry.
In protest Jewish extremists in Palestine took
to violence and the British retaliated. It was
open war.
Every sentence in that would be
worded differently in the British press.
The British viewpoint was expressed in
the House of Lords by the Marquess of
Salisbury, after the murder of the two
British sergeants by Jew terrorists. From
the London “Times” report:
They [the Jew terrorists] boasted that they
had declared war on Britain but they were only
enabled to conduct it because of our patjence
and tolerance in administering the law. Had
the mandate been entrusted to Germany or
some other country the penalties would have
been of so severe a character that the whole
population would have suffered unimaginable
misery. But they should not try even us too
hard. (Cheers). He joined with Viscount Hall
in paying tribute to the exemplary and extra-
ordinary patience and restraint shown by the
troops and police over a long period of strain,
including the almost daily murder of their
comrades.
A somewhat different way of putting
“In protest Jewish extremists in Palestine
took to violence and the British retali-
ated,” which is no more than f.a.q. Ameri-
can press coloring on this issue. Such,
and much more open, American support
of Zionism has been a main ground for
British complaint, and it will be interest-
ing to see how it shapes with Uncle Sam,
and American lives, involved, as they will
be if the U.N.O. final decision is opposed
in Palestine, as it practically certainly
will be ; by the Jew terrorists if it does
not suit them, and by the Arabs if it
suits the Jews.
The British—whatever the wish on
strategic grounds—have had enough of
“keeping order in Palestine,” all the more
so because such financial costs are now
a prime consideration. It has been setting
the British back over £35,000,000 a year.
Holding the ring till U.N.O. can take
over would run to a further £100,000,000.
The money could be better spent else-
where, even for strategic purposes: a
N.Y. “Times” London correspondent has
reported the “revival of reports that
N.Y. “Times.”
MAJORITY PLAN.
The proposed Jewish State would contain
about 500,000 Jews out of a total of just over
1,000,000 inhabitants, while the Arab State
would contain 8000 Jews out of 725,000 in-
habitants. Jerusalem, which Would be under
international trusteeship, has a population of
over 200,000, of whom 100,000 are Jews. The
largest part of the proposed Jewish State would
be the southern area of the Negeb, an arid
region where there now exist 21 small Jewish
settlements.
British East Africa is now being prepared
as a new strategic centre for Britain in
that troubled area of the world known
as the Near East.”
As partly indicated by the accompany-
ing map, the U.N.O. majority partition
plan would mean:
Independence for Palestine on Sept. 1, 1949,
after a transition period of continued admin-
istration by Britain under the U.N. and perhaps
with the help of other U.N. nations.
Creation of a Jewish State to include most of
the coastal plain, the Arab city of Jaffa, all
of the Negeb.
Creation of an Arab State to include most
of the hill country, a strip of the coast.
Establishment of Jerusalem and its environs
as an international area administered under the
U.N. trusteeship system.
Immigration of 150,000 Jews during the tran-
sition period.
Economic union of the Jewish and Arabic
States as a prerequisite to independence.
At least it must achieve one result the
British Government had in mind when
last April it wished the big headache on
to U.N.O. —the Palestine issue cannot
henceforth be a mere football of Ameri-
can Presidential politics, to say nothing
of its use for stirring up hatred of Britain.
• London “Times” commented that “too
many British lives have already been
sacrificed in fruitless endeavors to protect
the contending parties in Palestine from
the consequences of their own intransig-
ence,” to which the Arabs might well
have retorted that it was now so long
since that applied to themselves that the
“Times” would have been fairer if it had
been more honest. The “Times” added
the considerable understatement that the
public in Britain would be reluctant “to
approve the continuation of these sacri-
fices throughout a protracted, and pos-
sibly indefinite, period of transition.”
A fear that U.N.O. may involve Uncle
Sam in such sacrifices is belatedly begin-
ning to appear in the American press.
“One weakness of the plan from the U.S.
viewpoint,” “World Report” states, “is
that it might require use of American
troops and money to help Britain enforce
the partition.” The publication added:
The U.S. may be asked to show how much
it wants a Palestine solution. Britain always
has insisted that a pro-Zionist plan for Palestine
would have to be enforced with the help of
American troops. So far the United States has
dodged this issue. The time is approaching
when the troop question may have to be
answered.
There happen to be 2,000,000 Jews in
New York City—enough to swing the
State’s 47 Presidential electoral votes. It
has had most to do with Presidential
election promises to Zionists ; with the
fact that, through such promises, both
Republican and Democrat parties are
pledged to support a Jewish national
home in Palestine; and also with what
British Colonial Secretary A. C. Jones
was denouncing when, in August, he
spoke of “the spate of malicious abuse
and vilification of Britain” in American
newspapers and “the bitter campaign pur-
sued by American nationals.” Like the
reported Zionist hedging, there may be
heard some roaring as gentle as a suck-
ing dove in America presently.
In any case, talk as they like in
L1.N.0., it still remains to be seen how a
hitherto pathetically strengthless body
will figure trying to enforce its decision
against the opposition that any decision
will encounter.
SOMEBODY BLUNDERED.
One thing many American observers—
and the suffering British public also—
have found exasperating in what is called
the “British crisis” is the fact that, while
American comment practically all this
year had been forecasting just such a
“crisis,” high-placed British spokesmen,
including leading members of the Gov-
ernment, have been just as insistent that
the Americans were exaggerating.
As one example, pointed out by “World
Report”: “All spring, the British Gov-
ernment was saying that the terms of
the U.S. loan agreement would be met.”
The publication commented:
Conversion of sterling into dollars between
July 15 and August 20 cost Britain about $5OO
million. The British Treasury apparently forgot
that there was a severe shortage of dollars
throughout the world. Also, few currencies are
readily convertible into dollars. The result was
a rush of conversion.
Major mystery is why Britain didn’t suspend
convertibility earlier. The U.S. was always open
to reason and did not expect or want a con-
version run.
Strict adherence to the letter of the loan
agreement after the big drain started was a mis-
take, similar to other mistakes in British finan-
cial history. Stubborn return after World War
I to the pre-war exchange rate for sterling was
a mistake. Adherence to tradition did not pay
off in the twenties. Stubborn refusal to devalue
the pound and to give up free trade until too
late brought Britain close to disaster in 1931.
The Attlee Government thus follows a path
of tradition.
As another example, “Christian Science


HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightlully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American, African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S
BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS
Children’s Book Week
29th September —4th October
To all who are young enough to enjoy
a tale or old enough to tell one.
The best books for boys and girls, pub-
lished in the most attractive possible form,
are on display at
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A large percentage of economic waste Is
caused by the destruction of property by FIRL,
and while such waste cannot be eliminated, the
Individual can avoid financial devastation by
making adequate use of the valuable and
necessary service rendered to the community
by Insurance Companies.
The prompt service given enables reconstruc-
tion to commence immediately, and is the
means of restoring to the workers employment
which might otherwise be lost to them.
The Australian public has been brought to
realise that the support of Australian indus-
tries by every individual is helping the country
Generally to right its difficulties, but continued
patronage is necessary in order to reduce our
country’s “total indebtedness’’ and thus speed
the return to prosperity and financial stability.
FOR
68
Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
EIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Monitor” London staff reported on July
2- “Food Minister John Strachey has
given a categoric assurance that there will
be no food crisis in Britain this summer
and that future food supplies are secure.
The report added:
This news about food supplies ought to be
the best news Britain has heard in a long
while. It certainly is good news after wde
soread prophecies of an immediate food crisis.
But a large body of opinion in tTealN
ing a great many housewives, still is not rea y
convinced by Mr. Strachey s assuranc •
f>vf>r dad thev are to hear Mr. stracney
say thlre will be no food crisis in the near
future, some of them remember that Fuel
Minister Emanuel Shinwell said there would be
no crisis last winter.
Since the beginning of this year there
have, in fact, been dozens of such over-
confident, misleading British official
statements, giving ample support to
“World Report’s” conclusion: ‘ Major
miscalculations again have brought
Britain to a bitter crisis.” At one time
such “major miscalculations” would have
meant Government, or at least Minis-
terial, resignations ; but these days, appai -
ently, it isn’t only doctors who can bury
their mistakes.
THE THREE “ISMS.”
Whatever technical differences adepts
may be able to detect in Nazism, Fascism
and Communism, they all have in com-
mon at least these 16 items of policy
listed in a speech in U.S. Congress by
Representative Fred L. Busbey and re-
printed from the Congressional Record:
1 —The wiping out of all independent
trade-unionism with the result that those
trade-unions which are permitted exist
only under the tolerance of the totali-
tarian State, to serve as its servile
adjuncts.
2 The elimination of political parties
except the ruling Nazi, Fascist or Com-
munist party.
3 The subordination of all economic
and social life to the strict control of
the ruling, single-party bureaucracy.
4. —The suppression of individual initi-
ative, the liquidation of the system of
free enterprise, and the nationalisation
of private property.
5. The abolition of the right to free-
dom of speech, press, assembly and reli-
gious worship.
6. —The reduction of wages and living
standards to sub-minimum levels.
7 The use of slave labor on a vast
scale, through the establishment of huge
concentration camps.
8— The abolition of the right to trial
by jury, habeas corpus, the right to in-
dependent defence counsel and the inno-
cence of the defendant until proven guilty.
9. —The glorification of a single leader
or fuehrer or duce, who is all powerful
and subject neither to criticism nor re-
moval through the ballot.
10. —The utilisation of a special form
of social demagogy for the elimination of
all opposition and for the concentration
of power into the hands of the ruling
dictatorship, as for example incitement
of race against race, religion against
religion, and class against class.
11. —The subordination of all economic
and social life and the everyday needs
of the population to the requirements of
an expanding military machine seeking
world conquest.
12. The establishment of a system of
nationwide espionage to which the entire
population is subject.
13. —The severance of social, cultural
and economic contact between the people
of the totalitarian State and those of other
countries, through a rigorous press and
radio censorship, travel restrictions, etc.
14. —Open disregard for the rights of
small nations and the sanctity of treaties.
15. —The maintenance and encourage-
ment of fifth columns abroad among
nations with whom the totalitarian State
has treaty relations.
16. The reduction of Parliamentary
bodies to a rubber-stamp status automati-
cally approving all decisions of the one-
party dictatorship and the omnipotent
leader.
SPURRING JAP TRADE.
The U.S., says “World Report,” aims
at a revival of Jap world trade at a rate
that will make the Japs self-supporting
by 1951:'
One by one the barriers to increasing Japan’s
industrial production are being eliminated,
mainly through the prodding and assistance
of U.S. occupation authorities. Coal output
is climbing slowly, chances are good for a
bumper rice crop and Japan’s hungry factories
are going to get more raw materials.
Some of the funds for financing pur-
chase of the raw materials “are made
possible through an Allied agreement to
use as security Japan’s precious metals
and gems held in occupation custody” ;
private loans will be obtained abroad by
using this hoard as collateral. Other
funds will be advanced towards attaining
the self-supporting goal.
One snag is the continued fighting in
three of Japan’s best pre-war markets
China, French Indo-China and the Dutch
East Indies. If that can be settled, re-
covery of the Japs’ pre-war trading posi-
tion is expected to be rapid:
Textiles appear likely to be Japan’s main
source of revenue in the future. Last year she
exported 400 million yards of cotton cloth, but
that was less than 25 per cent, of what she sold
abroad in 1934. With sufficient raw cotton for
her mills, she hopes to increase production to
two billion yards within a few years.
Machinery and metal products are regarded
by occupation officials as the second source
of Japan’s trade revenue. Pre-war Japan filled
Milwaukee (U.S.) "Journal.”
CHALLENGE TO SOLOMON (IF IT IS SOLOMON).
most of Asia’s needs. The demand still is
strong for such items as bicycles and farming
tools. Later, as Asiatic nations industrialise,
Japan may supply them their machinery. _
The biggest obstacle to revival of Japan s
export trade —raw materials —gradually is being
removed. Occupation officials also are eliminat-
ing barriers to private trading. If the rest of
Asia can speed up Us recovery, Japan eventually
may regain the bulk of her peace-time markets
in the Far East.
NEW U.S. STATES.
Hawaii fe looked on in America as a
certainty to become the 49th U.S. State,
babl next year There was a 196
R° 134 y favorable preliminary vote in
t he House before Congress adjourned ;
most important vote since such pro-
p°sed legislation first came before Con-
-2q There has also been gener-
f[fXorable press comment.
Arguments against have mamly been;
T » e isiandS) 2 100 miles west of Cali-
£orrda are tOO f ar f rom the mainland.
The mixed population would endanger
the Un j on ’ s strength, should Hawaii be
g . yen equal footing with the rest of the
nation
Hawaii’s supporters Counter with these
tk a f (1) Hawaii by air is only 26
h York and 12 from’San
jp ran(dsco ( 2 ) The war provided the acid
test of the islanders’ loyalty and patriot-
Regarding the war record: “Of the
519,D00 residents, 160,000 are of Japan-
ese descent, yet Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, J. Edgar Hoover,
has declared that not a single act of
sabotage by Japanese was eveti attempted
in Hawaii.”
Washington “Post” comment can be
quoted as typical: “With America’s vital
interests in the Pacific illustrated only
too clearly by the war, the State of
Hawaii can well serve as a of our
permanent concern with that area.”
Other bidders for Statehood are
Alaska and Puerto Rico, but they still
have a long way to go.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
As MacArthur Sees Russia. — On the four
occasions when I have talked confidentially with
General MacArthur he has never shown a fixa-
tion on Soviet Russia,” “Christian Science
Monitor” editor Erwin D. Canham has re-
ported. “He takes Russia’s present behavior in
the world as the arrogant conduct of a new-
comer.” Canham reports MacArthur’s “answer
to Russia” as being the democratisation ot
Japan, and “a strong military position for the
United States in the Pacific, the keystone ot
which would be Okinawa.”
* * * *
An Amazing "Industry.” —“The business of
lobbying [in Congress] for national legislation
of one sort or another,” a “Herald Tribune
Washington correspondent has reported, has
moved into the ranks of multi-million-dollar-a-
year industries.” Quoting “new statistics con-
cerning those who know how to grab a Repre-
sentative’s lapel or bend a Senator’s ear,” the
correspondent reports that no fewer than 738
persons are now engaged at “the lobbying
trade.” Not only that; they are registered as
engaged in it, as required by Congress law, and
“more are registering every day”! The 738 take
a minimum of $4,000,000 a year; that’s what
they show —what they actually collect “may
amount to millions more than that annually.
The rake-off of the highest-paid member of the
industry was shown as at the rate of $65,000 a
year.
* * * *
Atom-war Airfield.—A N.Y. “Times” special
representative is authority for a report that “the
world’s first airfield built expressly for atomic
warfare is being rushed to completion” in
Alaska. There is to be “just one runway
15,000 ft. long and sturdy enough to base any
heavy bomber of the future. This is in line with
a new concept of atomic bombardment where
just one plane, such as a B-36, would take off
with an atomic bomb and head for its target
perhaps 5000 miles away.” Another atomic-war
airfield is to be built some distance away from
the first one near Fairbanks, where over
$40,000,000 is being spent on permanent instal-
lations.
* * •* *
As One Veteran to —A group of Corns
describing themselves as veterans of World War
II having arrived in Washington to toss their
political weight about, Congressmen, scared of
being labelled anti-veteran, went to all sorts
of lengths to dodge them. Senator Edward
Martin was an exception. Telling the Senate
that he was going out to see a uniformed dele-
gation because he “respected the veteran and
all that his uniform stands for,” the Senator
went out with his gun loaded, and fired: “Some
of you were willing to fight under my country’s
flag solely because Russia was fighting the same
enemy. You have the colossal effrontery to
tell the American Congress how you want things
run. There is a place for you who prefer to
live under Communism. I suggest that you go
there and stay there. If I can help to speed
your departure, call on me.” They’d made the
mistake of calling on one noted in Congres-
sional Records as “a distinguished soldier.”
* * * *
French Individualism. —In the view of Harold
Callender, in a dispatch to N.Y. “Times Maga-
zine” from Paris, what hope Communist leaders
have for a Communist France is set in the
vague and distant future: “French Communist
leaders, however fanatically doctrinaire they
may be, are realistic enough to acknowledge
that France is still a highly, indeed an exces-
sively, an anarchistically, an almost ungovern-
ably individualistic country; that its people hate
regimentation and bureaucracy as few peoples
do; that even in her weakened and disillusioned
condition France remains, or thinks she re-
mains, the quintessence of all that is meant
by Western civilisation—a civilisation that grew
and spread on principles that were the exact
opposite of those represented by Communism.”
* * * *
Famine and Plenty. —Further examples of
shortage and worse in Europe because avail-
able foodstuffs are not being distributed, as
reported by Scripps-Howard foreign editor Wil-
liam Philip Simms: “When 1 was in England
recently there was a potato famine. When I was
in Czechoslovakia a few days later, potatoes
were rotting by the ton for lack of transporta-
tion. Fruit was rotting on the trees for the
same reason, or because of manpower shortage.
I am informed there would be little real hunger
in Europe today, outside Germany, and Austria,
if existing foodstuffs were properly distributed.
# * * *
Russia Uses German Soldiers. —A while back
.there was a barrage of Russian yelping about
Britain allegedly keeping up a German army in
its occupation zone, evidently the Cbmmumst
technique of charging the other fellow with the
crime you are yourself committing. _ A N.Y.
“Journal-American” correspondent in Europe
has had reports of as many as 150,000 German
war prisoners having joined the Red Army and
been sent to the Soviet occupation zone.
“Officers of the so-called ‘Paulus Army’ are
being given key administrative posts at all
strategic points in the Soviet zone,”
« * * •
GJs. for Australia.—" From Guam to
Gotham hundreds of American ex-service men
and women are besieging Australian officials in
the U.S. for more information about subsidised
immigration to the land of 45c. steaks and
$5-a-week houses.” Thus an enthusiastic N.Y.
“Sun” reporter, going, of course, on Mr. Cat-
well and Australian official handouts. Since
all the atom bombs stockpiled in America could
be emptied on Australia without hitting one
empty house, a rush of G.ls. would have to
learn over again the AustraUan fondness for leg-
pulling. The rush, however, is still numbered,
at the most, in hundreds. Mr. Calwell spoke,
and still speaks, airily of 1,000,000.
*.* * *
Hirohito. —Cables a few weeks back reported
what must have been a chilly scene: Emperor
Hirohito declining to shake hands with a Jap
trade-union leader; the Emp. saying he pre-
ferred the Japanese way, politely smiling ana
bowing, and then walking off, with the one
who’d taken the new democracy a bit too liter-
ally due to be “dealt with” by his indignant
fellow-unionists.” The dealing with may be
severe N.Y. “Herald Tribune” Tokyo corre-
spondent A. T. Steele has reported many
vestiges of the old habits, old thinking and old
influences in present-day Japan,” the “most sig-
nificant holdover from the past being tne
emperor system. “The new Constitution, to be
sure, reduces the Emperor to little more than a
symbol. The divinity myth has been exploded.
Yet the sentimental attachment of the Japa
nese people to their ruler remains enormous.
If the retention or abolition of the emperor
system were to be put to a plebiscite, it is a
certainty that well over 80 per cent, of the
population would vote for retention.
* • • •
More Comparative Values. —As presented
by Washington “Post” staff writer Barnet
Nover: “For the fiscal year 1944-45, the
climactic year of the war, the United States
spent for military purposes the sum ot
$83,611,000,000. Nobody, not General Mar-
shall or Dean Acheson or Benjamin Cohen or
former Governor Harold Stassen or even
Henry Wallace has suggested we spend that
much for world rehabilitation. Indeed, for a
portion of that sum we can help put Europe
back on its feet.”
* * * *
Divided U.N.O.— Vote after vote shows that
UNO has developed into two groups: Soviet
arid satellites v. the rest. Every vote is decided
on a national, never on an international, basis.
On this present state of U.N.O. a Scripps-
Howard staff writer comments: ‘We are doing
the United Nations a disservice by pretending
that it is something it is not. Under its present
Charter, with the provision for the Big-Power
veto the U.N. cannot deal effectively with any
problem involving a clash of interests between
the Communist bloc and the free States. Until
this serious defect is remedied, ignoring U.N.s
limitations invites an inevitable disillusionment
which might kill the idea of collective security
for another generation or longer.”


mm
m
N
NO
A 0
\V
is-;:
r<
let FLIES menace your family health
is the time to
your home /
THE SUPER SPRAY
Sty*
r
7\
EA
S \
V
fLl *—,jnro* 6
li
* seC
i** .*§lA
mmm
\
i
cm
mm
I
:
I#
ill
k€L vPI *%
f*
\
i \
11 I
mti
ma
P?J j
r xv
£:x
.'.'A '
mm
NOW —early in the season—before health-menacing flies breed
in their thousands—GET SUPER QID ON THE JOB. Keep
your home safe from germ-carrying flies and other insects.
Simply spray SUPER QID on walls, ceilings, light fittings, in
garbage cans and wherever flies gather. SUPER QID leaves an
invisible film—a residue of D.D.T. that remains for months to
keep on killing flies and other insects that settle on these surfaces.
SUPER QID KILLS ON CONTACT . . . IT’S SUDDEN DEATH!
Kills flies quickly, safely and surely . . . knocks them cold with
a lethal dose that KILLS for certain in double-quick time.
sup er QID keeps on killing...
Yes, SUPER QID keeps on killing for months because of its
powerful combination of ingredients. Its effect is so long lasting
that it is most economical to use.
QID contains 5% D.D.T.
Plus Pyrethrum and Thanite. Flies, mos-
quitoes, silver fish and other insects simply
cannot stand up to such a death-dealing com-
pound. SUPER QID won’t stain or injure
fabrics. It is pleasantly perfumed, too—no
rank flyspray odour.
Get a bottle NOW!
Get it into action at the
first sign of fly menace.
Metropolitan Prices:
8-ounce bottles .... 1/8
16-ounce bottles ... 2/11
Manufacturers and distributors—
The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty, Ltd,,
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3529
Wednesday, October 1, 1947.
“Sail on, sail on, O Ship of State!
Barnacle Ben controls your fate.”
(It sails on—for the time being.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"'LABOR ' SAVED YOU!"
General George H. Brett, who was
Field-Marshal Wavell’s No. 2 in the
A.B.D.A. area after the fall of Singa-
pore, and who commanded the U.S. Air
Force in Australia in 1942, has let a little
light into the dark recesses of history,
the history of a period which may be
held to have closed in .the disgrace of the
Brisbane Line lie. This he did in an
article written for the U.S. magazine
“Look,” the substance of which was
cabled to the Melbourne “Argus” from
New York by Leslie Miller.
General Brett has a good word to say
for John Curtin, though not as a war
leader. Curtin he describes as “sincere,
hardworking, intelligent, easy to talk to”
and with the “knack ,of understanding
another’s viewpoint.”
But the Cabinet was “purely political.”
Its members had been “selected not for
experience and knowledge in the pecu-
liarly specialised business of war, but be-
cause of their importance in union activi-
ties.”
Forde, the War Minister, was a Labor
leader, with little or no military knowledge.
Drakeford, the Air Minister, held his place
as president of a railroad union organi-
sation. Though he knew nothing of
aviation he was in charge of Australia’s
Air Force and commercial airlines.
There was a great difference between the
positiveness of MacArthur and the shoulder-
shrugging attitude to be found in Australia.
They seemed to believe nothing could
stop the Japs from eventually setting foot
in Australia, and that offensive action was
completely out of the question.
When General Brett arrived in Australia
the “Fight-for-Australia-in-Java” strategy
concocted by the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph,” with what backing from Canberra
has never been disclosed by that news-
paper or its political friends of the
moment, had ended in stark tragedy. He
found the position “muddled and un-
happy.” “I, talked with Curtin. He
was unhappy, but there didn’t seem to
be much he could do about it.”
The politicians not the Army were
running things in Australia and at the time
were giving us as many headaches as the
Japs. The Labor Government seemed more
interested in keeping to the party line
on wages, hours and working conditions
than in the threat posed by the Japanese,
then on the other side of the Owen Stanley
Ranges.
Then the General gives details of the
Communist obstruction and sectional
selfishness which made the name of this
country a byword, redeemed only by the
glorious deeds and stern endurance of
a handful of warriors, mostly volun-
teers ; “no better fighting men in the
world, but there were too few of them.”
He tells how “stevedores refused to
unload badly-needed supplies on Satur-
day afternoons and Sundays; when
troops were assigned to the job the unions
threatened to strike.” He describes the
pitiful lack of. supplies and makes a point
of the difficulty of persuading seamen to
run the risk of Japanese sea perils. He
enlarges on the awful lack of equipment,
the aircraft so old and battered that
when it came to sending a machine to
pick up General MacArthur “only four
combat-shattered bombers” were avail-
able. “One got through. Two turned
back on account of engine trouble.
The third fell into the sea. Eventually
Admiral Leahy lent me four beautiful new
bombers.”
General Brett explodes the myth that
it was the Curtins who were responsible
for bringing General MacArthur to Aus-
tralia. He confirms what was here pub-
lished on February 12, that he and not
General MacArthur was Mr. Curtin’s
choice for leader ; thd “Labor” Govern-
ment invited him to become Supreme
Commander. This offer he declined, pre-
ferring to be Air: Force Commander.
Actually President Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill objected, not to General Brett,
but to the creation of a post which may
have seemed to them too much of a
good thing having regard to what the
“Government” itself called “the necessi-
ties of Australian legislation dealing with
defence.” (At a later period “the neces-
sities of Australian legislation dealing
with defence,” as embodied in another
“Labor” bill, denied the Australians in
Jap horror-camps the service as rescuers
of militiamen —nearly all were rescued
by an Anglo-Indian-African army.) So
“when MacArthur arrived at Darwin
Curtin expressed himself heartily in favor”
of that commander’s appointment as
“Commander of the Allied Forces.”
Shocking as General Brett’s revelations
are, coming as they do from an American
without political bias who served Aus-
tralia well, he has not told a tenth of
the shameful story.
He has not told —indeed he could
scarcely be expected to know —that
“Labor” leaders supported the organisers
of Communist strikes in war factories
and workshops in attempts to secure
the release of two Communists who,
caught red-handed in a seditious plot
to sabotage war industries, had been
imprisoned and interned ; and had these
Communists released immediately on
taking office. He has not told of the
panic which succeeded the outbreak of the
Japanese war or of Canberra’s failure to
give the nation a lead, though it was
fertile enotlgh of appeals for assistance
“without inhibitions.” No counterpart of
“I have nothing to offer but blood, sweat
and tears” came from that quarter.
He has not told of Canberra’s scream
for 25 divisions of British and American
conscripts to defend this country at a
moment when it was informing General
Wavell that the militia in Northern Aus-
tralia could not be sent one mile outside
the coastline, in the process of defending
their native country, and that if the Japan-
ese were to be kept off Commonwealth
soil it must be done by British, Indians
and Dutch,
There is no reference in General Brett’s
article to the useless sacrifice of troops in
Amboina, Java and Timor, or to the
shameful refusal to divert the Seventh
Division —on its way home in British
ships from the Middle East—to Burma,
though it was pressed upon Canberra
that the division would be replaced in a
week or two and that the immediate use
of Australian troops, then within a day’s
steam of Rangoon, would provide the
only chance of keeping the Burma-road
open and the Chinese in a position to
fight. ,
That is an incident which will go down
as a black shame, doubly so since it fol-
lowed the sending of a British division to
Singapore, there to be taken prisoner, at
the hysterical insistence of Canberra, then
demanding 25 Anglo-American divisions
—more than the British and Americans
possessed of equipped fighting men
altogether—to keep out the Asiatics.
With the Seventh Division added to the
gallant force fighting under General
Alexander’s skilful leadership, and with
British naval and air forces in the area
coming up, Rangoon might have been
held, in which case the Japanese war
would have been shortened. In point of
fact, part of the Seventh Division was’
landed in Java and lost there in hopeless
conflict.
And perhaps General Brett preferred
to draw a veil over Mr. Drakeford’s war
effort, as illustrated in Air Vice-Marshal
Bostock’s report on the First Tactical
Air Force months before the end of the
Japanese war (“morale is at a dangerous
low level”), and over the dilatoriness
which left hundreds of Australian civil
servants, many of them Old Diggers' of
the first German war, to perish in Japa-
nese hands in New Guinea or in an
enemy hellship (in the hellship, “885
p.-0.-w. and 209 internees”) when they
could have been brought out before the
invasion. He may also have preferred
not to contemplate the fate of the ill-
trained and ill-armed militia left in
Rabaul to be slaughtered.
It is all a terrible story, from the
neglect which left Darwin undefended to
the futile Kokoda-Trail march, carried
through under conditions which con-
demned the flower of the young volunteer
divisions to die or to be wrecked in
health by tropical diseases. It is better
to forget that this happened nearly a year
after the war had come to the New
Guinea fringes, the Canberra muddlers
having apparently been unmindful of the
fact that such a thing as malaria existed
in New Guinea, between the wars given
over to “exploiters” (Mr. Ward).
It is better, too, perhaps, to forget the
political campaigns of Bougainville and
Wewak against enemy forces unable to
escape, who might have been safely left
to the elements, and attack on whom in
the circumstances was not worth the loss
of a platoon of young Australians.
All these things and more—among
them the obstruction of the building of
the graving dock at Sydney, the neglect
to give due support to the Royal Navy
when it sent weary fleets across the sea
to our aid even before the German war
was finished, and the division of the
nation into two camps by Dr. Evatt’s
1944 powers referendum—are parts of
the ignominious narrative of “Labor’s”
war with which General Brett does not
concern himself.
Whatever military history was written
by the “Labor” party during the war
years and since has been written in
accordance with a policy which was
framed after World War I and adopted
in 1921 at an All-Australian Trade Union
Congress, to which many of the World
War II “Labor” Ministers were delegates.
The key to the “Labor” viewpoint is
to be found in a set of resolutions pre-
pared by a “special military committee”
of that conference and moved by Mr.
Donald Cameron —now Senator Cameron,
P.M.G. —and accepted without a division.
One clause of the report read:
This Congress, believing that the
operations of the Defence Act re 70 days’
training of compulsory trainees are unduly
harsh, and morally degrading, enters its
emphatic protest, and calls upon the
Administration to immediately cancel the
same.
“Morally degrading” to learn how to
defend one’s country! It was General
Brett’s fate to find the authors of such a
“policy” in control of Australia’s defence
in dark days. No wonder he felt aston-
ished and bewildered.
Customs-Union Specifics.
Within a week of Mr. Bevin’s casual
statement before the Trade-Union Con-
gress at Southport that “he hoped the
Empire would agree to the possibility of
a Customs Union,” British newspapers
(the Beaverbrook press excepted) were de-
riding it as ludicrous. The idea must
have come to Mr* Bevin while he was
speculating on customs union in Europe,
for which America has pressed as essen-
tial under the Marshall relief plan. The
16 European States, endeavoring by trial
and error to arrive at just what sort of
joint action would satisfy the United
States, were boggling over that, too, as a
trans-Atlantic illusion.;
But these are desperate days for Europe
when anything may happen. The “Times”
was expatiating on “the immense practical
obstacles still to be faced in any progress
to a system of greater commercial free-
dom,” when the 16 nations’ latest report
came out urging the formation of a Euro-
pean customs union, and announcing that
13 of them (including Britain) had
already agreed to it. The three still
hesitating are apparently the Scandinavian
States, very timid in face of the west-
ward movement of Russia and its mastery
in the Baltic.
The hasty suggestion of an Empire
customs union proceeds, it must be pre-
sumed, from (1) the British Government’s
concern that within a European economic
union Britain would be unable to main-
tain Dominion trade preferences against
the new partners in Europe and (2) the
deadlock in the tariff negotiations between
the British Empire and the United States
at Geneva, where “gloom has now de-
scended.” The “Times” saw the Euro-
pean union as distinctly more of a mon-
strosity than the Commonwealth one;
“if contrasted, then obviously there is
much more inherent strength in the latter”
—though Australian industry would have
something to say about that. The argu-
ment is that the four-year plan (or com-
bination of four-year plans) in the Euro-
pean union does not embrace countries
upon which Europe has relied for many
raw materials, and that the British
Dominions would help to fill the bill.
The French think Africa might be in-
cluded for the same purpose. But so
far it is precisely on the inclusion of
colonies that Belgium and Holland have
had' difficulty in completing the more
limited “Benelux” customs union of their
own.
In truth, Europe is so sick and debili-
tated as to be near collapse—“hanging
on the ropes,” as one American adviser
has reported. The application of any
remedy, however fantastic, can hardly
make the patient worse. Nor does that
fully represent the full gravity of the case.
The supreme need now is to revive in
these desperate countries the will to re-
cover. Appeals to these peoples from
their own Governments to haul them-
selves up individually by their boot-
straps are losing force and meaning.
The Americans have made it very clear
that without revived self-help there can
be no United States aid, and that the
only acceptable evidence of capacity for
self-help would be a genuine movement
to abolish tariff barriers.
But Whitehall followed Mr. Bevin’s
Southport statement with an expression
of hope that “the matter will be raised in
more concrete form when Dominion
political leaders visit London for the
Royal wedding.” Sir Stafford Cripps told
a meeting of Scottish industrialists that
Mr. Bevin’s idea was “an extension” of
the example shown in the customs union
between England and Scotland. England
and Scotland may look upon each other
“as Pennsylvania looks on Kansas,” but
to suppose that Australia, for instance.
is ready to do the same is begging a ques-
tion that demands at least an immense
drive in education of several vast electo-
rates.
Emerging from the “Geneva gloom”
the Dominion delegates (from Australia,
New Zealand, South Africa, India, Pakis-
tan, Rhodesia) met to discuss the dollar
crisis—which, serious as it is, is part of
a production crisis—with the Chancellor
of the Exchequer. Inevitably they asked
him what this customs-union idea was all
about. Dr. Dalton reinforced the already
widespread opinion that the sooner he
leaves the Exchequer the better by saying
Britain would “prefer” that the proposal
did not “enter into the present discus-
sions.” This was a bit offhand when Sir
Stafford Cripps a week earlier had men-
tioned the matter (only to befog it more
than ever) before another meeting of
2000 representatives of British industry.
And how are Dominion leaders, such of
them as will be in London, to make a
clear answer six weeks hence if they are
unable to give their Parliaments before-
hand any inkling of what the Attlee
Government wants?
Even for Britain itself the four-year
plan is no more than a blueprint. Sir
Stafford Cripps to British manufacturers:
It is difficult to say now what goods
will be most saleable in the export markets
in the next 12 months. The best guess
has to be made, at the same time retain-
ing flexibility to switch from one export
to another.
He added that “the Government might it-
self go into the manufacturing business,”
which would mean that the Government
has learned nothing from its follies.
Meanwhile the Board of Trade is engag-
ing in “the fight against longer skirts for
women”; control of coal, supremely
vital element in the production drive, is
left in the hands of “Manny” Shinwell,
the most incompetent and withal the most
conceited Fuel Minister the British
people have had; and Mr. Bevin can
only say, while protesting that Britain is
not done yet, that “standards of life may
go back, and we may have to say to the
miners we cannot give them all we hoped
for” —and to others as well;
We cannot give you the houses we want
you to live in; we cannot give you the
amenities we desire; but we will not fail
and we will not let you down.
Sir Stafford Cripps’s “flexibility to
switch” means compulsory direction of
labor, and an Empire customs union, en-
tailing “elimination of overlapping in-
dustries,” must inevitably involve some-
thing of the same sort. That, of course,
is the Socialists’ long suit. It is on a par
with Dedmanism in the expropriation of
the trading banks in Australia. Already
in Britain the first efforts to implement
orders under the new act for “the control
of engagement of labor” —euphemism
for industrial conscription —are break-
ing down. Labor Exchange staffs say that
it will not work and that the attempt to
draft employment away from “non-essen-
tial” industries is quite defeated by the
inability to secure shelter for those re-
moved.
Meanwhile the sterling-group
Dominions will have to prepare some
policy against the day when world prices
for agricultural exports fall —as fall they
must—and the British Government is
trying to fit a second string to its bow in
case the European customs union fails.
Whatever happens, Britain must pro-
duce more coal and more exports. The
approaching winter is a threat to “full
employment” through lack of coal for
the factories. Coal and steel and ships
and textiles must demand the utmost
energies of the nation, whether the Euro-
pean customs union lives or dies. They
are Britain’s contribution to the joint
four-year plan, just as development of
hydro-electric power in the Alps is a
concern for Switzerland, Austria and
France, Some two millions of surplus
labor would be the contribution to the
pool by Italy, the Rhine and all canals
would come under international manage-
ment, and the Belgian railway workships
are to be enlarged to undertake repair
work for pooled rolling-stock.
These measures offer some outline of a
practical programme for Europe such as
America may agree to subsidise. General
Marshall has set a six-weeks dateline for
Congressional approval. By then much
of Europe will be facing starvation.
There is one addendum to all this. An
essential participant, without option, in
the scheme is a reconstructed western
Germany, for therein lies the great store
and workshop of the Ruhr, Moscow’s
assent to this Marshall plan will not be
worth further seeking. The Foreign
Ministers’ Council on the settlements for
Germany and Austria, scheduled for
November in London, might therefore
just as well not meet. Proceedings at
U.N.O. Assembly have revealed the
Soviet’s malignant temper, and the demo-
cratic world has had enough of that. All
Europe west of the Iron Curtain must
now make for peace and recovery with-
out Russia, and without any concern
about Russian views, or it will be the
Worse for Europe and the world.


PLAIN ENGLISH
South Australian Snag.
South Australia’s Savings Bank will be
a healthy centenarian on March 11, 1948.
During the depression, when the Govern-
ment Savings Bank in N. S. Wales went
bung, and the ones in Queensland and
Westralia sold out to the Commonwealth,
the S.A. Government of the period insisted
on preserving its Savings Bank, and its
successors have had no regrets.
On June 30, 1947, the Savings Bank
of S.A. had 565,865 accounts—BB for
every 100 persons in the State. Bank
balances of the 565,865 depositors
amounted to £55,007,547. For the year
to June 30, the bank earned income of
£1,680,270, £1,090,143 being credited to
interest on depositors’ accounts. It has
made a practice of encouraging school-
children and wage-earners to be thrifty,
and has invested £5,510,589 in mortgage
loans, having had an honorable share in
the Government’s creditable housing
record.
Altogether a worthy institution, and if
the worst came to the worst it could be
expanded.
Indeed, if Federal “Labor” suc-
ceeded in its efforts to wipe out the
trading banks, there is nothing in the
Commonwealth Constitution to prevent
this Savings Bank going in for general
banking business. It would have an
unassailable right to undertake this busi-
ness within the borders of South Aus-
tralia. Could it establish and maintain
branches for general business in other
States? It might. Although the Com-
monwealth Parliament is authorised to
make laws “for the peace, order and good
government of the Commonwealth with
respect to.... State banking extending
beyond the limits of the State concerned”
(subsection 13 of Section 51), and
although it is provided also (Section 109)
that “when a law of a State is inconsistent
with a law of the Commonwealth, the
latter shall prevail, and the former shall,
to the extent of the inconsistency, be
invalid,” there remains Section 92 . . .
“Trade, commerce and intercourse among
the States... .shall be absolutely free.”
And Section 92 comes in Chapter IV —
Finance and Trade.
The Playford Government and the
majority of the people of South Aus-
tralia have made it very clear that they
are opposed to the abolition of the trad-
ing banks. They will have to be reckoned
with by the Ghifleys if the Chifleys
succeed in the High Court and Privy
Council proceedings necessarily con-
tingent on their banking legislation ; and
their success is doubtful, to say the least.
Keane and Goldberg.
Nearly six months have passed since
Mr. Rosevear, the Speaker, refused to
allow Representatives to discuss the Gold-
berg case on the ground that Goldberg
had given formal notice of appeal, and
that the case was therefore sub judice.
The stay of proceedings for 21 days
has long since expired and the Govern-
ment is due to explain how Goldberg
(“Joe” to York-street, Sydney), who seems
to be able to wangle passports and
accessories whenever he asks for them,
came to be concerned in a private deal
with the late Senator Keane —who,
according to the Goldberg account,
“asked me to buy goods for him” and
“handed me 3000 dollars.”
It was at the hearing of the charge
against Goldberg—long delayed, Goldberg
being privileged to go abroad after the
initial proceedings —that the facts ad-
mitted by Goldberg came out. He was
charged with the unlicensed introduction
of goods under import prohibition, some
4350 dollars’ worth of dress ornaments,
nylon stockings, handbags and many
other articles, and he was convicted and
fined over £3OO in all. The goods, some
Goldberg’s and some Keane’s —again
according to Goldberg’s account —were,
it was stated in evidence, packed in
trunks for Mrs. Keane, and became part
of the baggage of another returning pas-
senger, Miss Rosetta Kelly, of the Aus-
tralian War Supplies office in Washington.
Neither of these ladies was called as a
witness, which was strange.
The Government has exhibited every
sign of desiring to hush up the affair. But
the Speaker is prescriptively required to
“let truth and falsehood” —or conceal-
ment —“grapple.” It is time Parliament
got at the truth of the matter, if only to
clear the late Minister’s name.
One-Big-Bank Prelude?
During the years since land-sales control
was instituted there must have been
thousands of forced sales of house pro-
perty and vacant land at a sacrifice.
A common case has been that of a
man who died leaving a dwelling mort-
gaged, say, for £lOOO on which he had
paid £5OO in deposit and instalments. In
the terms of his will or because of harsh
necessity the house had to be sold ; but
it„could be sold only on a valuation fixed
in February, 1942, when the then-
victorious Japs were on Australian terri-
tory and threatening to invade the con-
tinent. So, though it might be worth
£3OOO in a free market, it could bring
no more than £l5O0 —though in all prob-
ability the 1942 valuation would be less
than that amount —and the “beneficiary”
or “beneficiaries” would get no more than
a gross £5OO in depreciated currency.
“Labor” has no use for thrifty people in
modest circumstances, and it gave them
no protection in such cases.
In the working out of “control” not only
purchasers of small properties benefited
at the expense of widows and orphans.
Land speculators and some land agents
did famously, especially when a dis-
cretionary power was vested in “control.”
Judge Kirby has reported on
in vogue and transactions sanctioned in
the Sydney “control” office, in charge of
which was F. A. Lush. The terms of re-
ference were so limited that they did not
admit of the Judge dealing with charges
of dummying agayrst Stanley Evan Parry
—a good-as-“ Labor” M.L.C. and some-
thing of a Pooh-Bah in the municipal
world; Mayor of Canterbury, member of
the County Council and so on. But his
Honor heard enough to convince him
that Parry and two land-agents, J. A.
Burke and Cecil Alexander, had received
A LITTLE BIT OF HORSEPLAY.
“McKell supporters in the Sydney Parliamentary ‘Labor’ Caucus got even with McGirr,
who defeated the McKell nominee in the contest for Premier, by overruling his opposition
to night trots, with betting.”
favors from Lush and extended favors —
though not in money—to that official, and
that Lush, when driven into a corner,
had made “totally unfounded” charges
against the head of “control” at Can-
berra, Mr. Balmford.
Alexander was concerned in 12 trans-
actions “all relating to the sale of land
at Epping.” Says the Judge:
Lush was guilty of misconduct and
wrongdoing in approving of the sale of this
land in the absence of a valuation by an
approved valuer. He acted improperly in
directing two officers of his department to
make a valuation. Alexander was guilty
of misconduct and wrongdoing in procur-
ing Lush so to act. He had bought whisky
for Lush and met him socially.
Burke was connected with the sale of
subdivisions at Adamstown and Sefton
and the purchase of land at Cardiff and
Lindfield. To all these transactions con-
sent was given without an independent
valuation being required, and the Judge
indicts Lush and J. A. Burke of “mis-
conduct and wrongdoing,” except as to
Cardiff. Here Lush was deceived by
Francis Burke —“guilty of misconduct
and wrongdoing in making a statement
which was false to his knowledge.” And
out of “gratitude” to Lush and “to fur-
ther his own business interests,” J. A.
Burke “presented Lush with gifts of
whisky on several occasions and fre-
quently entertained him at lunch.”
“When the occasion offered,” Parry,
“in the hope of, and with the view to,
obtaining favors,” himself “took the
opportunity of extending entertainment”
to Lush. On one such-“occasion,” October
29, 1945, Lush and Lazarus, a sub-
ordinate, “inspected the Golf Links
Estate at Lakemba, part of an area of
86 acres purchased for £lO,OOO by Parry
in December, 1943.” There must have
been “a file relating to this purchase”—no
bureaucratic operation, however small, is
complete without a file —but it could not
be found. Neither could a file “relat-
ing to” the subdivision of “about 11” of
the 186 acres into 63 lots, nor “Lush’s
consent to a sale to Subdivision Estates”
—a Parry concern —of “62 of the lots.”
For “no such file ever existed.” There
is the further circumstance that Parry,
after making an appearance in the
witness-box, disappeared before he could
be re-examined, having been granted a
passport and, presumably, dollar credits.
Nevertheless, “facts” were ascertained,
and these facts and the Judge’s conclu-
sions are subjoined:
Lush consented to the sale [of the Golf
Links Estate] at £B4OO without requiring
an independent valuation of the land in
one lot when the Valuer-General’s valuation
of the subject land and an additional area
of li acre as at 1942 was only £2900.
Although Lush was not guilty of mis-
conduct and wrongdoing in relation to the
Golf Links Estate transactions he acted
most improperly and was deserving of cen-
sure for (1) nominating a valuer at the
request of Parry, (2) accepting entertain-
ment from Parry, and (3) approving of the
sale of the subject land at £B4OO in the
absence of an independent valuation of the
land in one lot.
Although Parry was not guilty of mis-
conduct or wrongdoing in relation to the
Golf Links Estate transactions he acted
most improperly and was deserving of
censure for (1) procuring Lush to nominate
a valuer and (2) entertaining Lush and
Lazarus.
Lush is not to be dismissed, nor is his
office to be closed (“departments never
depart”). He is to be transferred to
“other work,” and perhaps held in re-
serve for a banking job when (or if) the
One Big Bank is brought into being.
According to Judge Kirby he was clay in
the hands of “keen, shrewd, pushing
businessmen.” This would disqualify him
from any important’ post in a trading
bank, but it might be regarded as a quali-
fication by “keen, shrewd, pushing busi-
nessmen,” and others who hang on to
“Labor’s” skirts, when the One Big Bank
—propelled, it may be, by a 1917 loco-
motive —comes round the mountain, if
it comes.
Minesweeping.
Minefields know no friends. Every
month the Admiralty issues a progress
report on the sweeping of hundreds of
thousands of mines all over the Seven
Seas; and every month names of three
or four ships lost through mines are
included in the harvest tally.
Warrnambool’s recent sinking off Cape
Grenville while clearing a Barrier field
"has emphasised the fact that the war is
not yet over for the Navy. Though the
utmost precautions are taken to ensure
immunity, danger is always present.
The leading ship of the line is of
course in live waters, relying solely
on her shallow draught to carry her over
the waiting bed. A sweep being hauled
inboard is likely to be bringing with it
5001 b. of T.N.T., waiting for the first
knock against the ship’s stern. And tides
and storms, particularly where the Coral
Sea is funnelled at pressure between
reefs, can be depended upon to float a
few mines indiscriminately downstream.
R.A.N. charts of the Reef are liberally
pencilled “Floating Mine Sighted
Here” legends.
In “Daddy’s war” Lloyds paid R.N.
men mine-sweeping—all volunteers —30s.
a day above their naval pay. Men of the
R.A.N. on similar work were paid danger
money (Is. to 3s. a day) only from
January 1 to June 30 this year, when it
was cut out. It took the loss of Warr-
nambool and of four good Australian
lives to persuade our Navy Minister to
restore it. Still, all that is in keeping
with a policy that allows dockyard work-
men double-time “danger money” on,
warship trials past Sydney Heads and
none to men who spend month after
month in an area holding anything up to
a thousand tons of T.N.T.
Gyppos on the Warpath.
Back from his unsuccessful effort to get
U.N.O. Security Council to denounce the
Anglo-Egyptian treaty and order Britain
to leave Egypt and the Sudan forthwith,
Nokrashy Pasha broadcast threats of the
horrible things the Egyptian Army will
do “once it is reorganised on modem
lines,” and the Egyptian Navy sets out to
rule the waves. Nahas Pasha, who made
the treaty and during the late world war
held power in Egypt solely by virtue of it,
joined in slating everything British.
A mob then stoned the British con-
sulate at Alex, and another attacked a
telegraph company’s office. The idea is
perhaps that Moscow will be moved to
reopen the question as one involving a
threat to international security.
The grievance is that this British
“tyrant,” having delivered the Gyppos
from Turkey, from the Sudan Dervishes,
from the Germans (twice) and from the
Italians —having as well built them water-
works to assure a good Nile, established
health services, made the country rich
and capable of supporting a bigger popu-
lation than was ever imagined under the
Caliphat—will not, in preparing to with-
draw from Egypt, hand over the Sudanese
as a parting gift. That the Sudanese
won’t be handed over is no argument
with a crowd that would not even declare
war on an invader pursuing aggression
against Egypt’s treaty ally.
The Egyptian Government is seeking
a scapegoat against the day when
problems become pressing. Population
has grown so phenomenally under the
British protectorate that it is now about
20 millions, about 1500 to the arable
square mile. This is bringing about
economic pressures infinitely more un-
comfortable for the pashas of today than
for those who, helpless before the popular-
distress a couple of generations ago, were
extremely grateful to the British admini-
strators who harnessed the Nile. Pretty
soon “liberated” Egypt, like “liberated
India,” will be calling for sustenance, and
no doubt the late “oppressor” will be ex-
pected to supply the necessary. Cholera
having broken out, he has already been
implored to send preventive and
remedial medicines, and is, of course,
complying.
Ground and Lofty Drinking.
Queensland’s Parliament is amending
its Liquor Act to permit the serving of
“spirituous and fermented” in aircraft.
This is customary in other States, but
during the war Queensland made it an
offence to carry liquor in planes and, as
a result of this, north-bound aircraft have
been leaving their bar behind at Mascot,
Sydney. During the debate it was alleged
that T.-A.A. planes had been serving
liquor in defiance of the ban.
Highlight of a debate in which the
“Worker” was referred to as “the literary
supplement of The Bulletin,” and there
were references to General MacArthur,
Commander-in-Chief McKell and other
persons, institutions and subjects equally
remote from the matter under discussion,
was a little debate-within-the-debate.
To an interjection by Mr. Chalk (East
Toowoomba), Mr. lesson (Kennedy) re-
plied “You keep quiet; you are nothing
but a wowser.”
Whether the charge was true or not,
it scarcely seemed to warrant the acjmoni-
tion, but Mr. Chalk kept quiet—till it was
his turn to speak. Then he said:
If a person is to be called a wowser
because he does not take intoxicating
liquor, then I for one have proved that I
am not a wowser by having had a glass
of ale in the bar of this House during
lunch hour; therefore I cannot be accused
of being a wowser.
Having, as he hoped, disposed of the
aspersion, the member then spoke a few
words of warning against the amendment :
What is to prevent a couple of friends
from legitimately taking a dozen bottles of
giggle-water to a plane, boarding the air-
craft and then consuming the liquor?
What is to prevent any young man from
going to some outside area with an aero-
plane full of liquor and selling joy flights
at £1 a flight with grog included?
Mr. lesson, getting the call, seemed in-
clined to discount Mr. Chalk’s fears.
His comments led Mr. Chalk to interject
with; “You have always got to have
one mug in a party, and you are it.” Mr.
lesson objected to this remark. He did
not state whether he denied it as a general
proposition or merely in its application
to himself, but he did say:
I accused the honorable member of being
a wowser. I repeat that accusation. His
only reason for having a drink during the
luncheon adjournment was so that he could
claim here that he is not a wowser, and
the honorable member for Toowong paid
for his drink.
Mr. Gledson had a cut at Mr. Chalk:,
I have always been taught that the first
drink is the beginning of many more and
(Continued on page 14.)


CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
CRAVEN A
• «
quality is something you
can rely on always
I hope that the company he is keeping with
the Q.P.P. is not inducing him to take
to drink.
Mr. Chalk: I will challenge the Attorney-
General to see who goes under the table
first.
Challenge declined, the Attorney-
General claiming lifelong abstinence.
The matter ended there, more’s the pity!
Ghosts of hard-drinking Parliamentarians
of the past would have thronged the bar
to watch such a contest. An alternative
solution would be to place each of the
parties at the control of a Sky-
master loaded to the astradome with
assorted liquors, the first man to crash his
plane in a nose-dive to pay for the lot
out of the proceeds of his estate.
POLITICAL POINTS
The British are pulling out of Palestine,
and that should give Ben Hecht, the
murder-advocate, a great chance to take
control. But by all accounts Ben is still
hiding in his Ne.w York flat and living in
luxury on his royalties, which he draws
from this country, among others.
Three counts in a telling Fadden in-
dictment of “Labor.” “A grave decline in
almost every branch of rural production”
and no plan for increasing it; “hundreds
of millions of pounds in secret reserves,”
including unassessed and uncollected
taxes, and “packing of the Commonwealth
civil service”—ls7,9oo at the end of
June, an increase of 2800 in three months,
compared with 57,779 eight years ago.
A very small proportion- of this huge
army is in, or is being drafted to, Can-
berra, although Canberra is supposed to
be the seat of government. The vast
majority are in places where they and
their adult relatives can vote,
Joe Abbott’s account of the Amour
adventure is that the Senator who in
1943 got the greatest vote ever given to
an Australian (though outside his stamp-
ing grounds at Canberra and Bankstown
scarcely anyone knew him) was put off
a homing plane at San Francisco for
being fighting drunk. Amour denied
it and said he would deal with Joe in
three weeks’ time when the Senate met.
The House has had another of those
rare foreign-affairs debates from which
the foreign-affairs, Minister is nearly al-
ways absent. Menzies said Australia
would have cause to regret the “Labor”-
Communist war on the Dutch aimed at
the suicidal business of “driving the white
man out of the East Indies,” particularly
as in the process the missing party had
meddled in “an internal matter” between
the Dutch and a number of rebels, thus
setting a precedent for U.N.O. meddling
in the White Australia policy. The P.M.
had the face to plead that his “Govern-
ment” was “not taking sides.” The plea
was coincident with A.C.T.U. measures
for driving the Dutch out of Australia,
and was immediately followed by a
Chifley claim that “referring the dispute
to the Security Council has done some-
thing to stop the bloodshed.” That was
followed at the week-end by a consular
repdrt to the Security Council, “made by
the Consuls of Australia, Belgium, China,
France, Britain and the U.5.A.,” that
blood is still flowing; and it will go on
flowing until the Dutch are placed in a
position to restore order.
The communal massacres which have
desolated India constitute a terrible warn-
ing to Canberra to keep its clumsy or
Communist-palsied hands out of Asian
situations to which it brings not even a
rudimentary knowledge, only likes and
dislikes, vainglory and vanity. Pakistan
has appealed to “other British
Dominions,” even South Africa, for
“help” in bringing the slaughter to an
end. Will this be the next folly of Our
Foreign Policy?
Australian coastal shipping has been
under “ ‘Labor’ control” for nearly six
years. “ ‘Labor’ control” has meant Com-
munist chaos, and, with the ships in
process of being handed back to their
owners, another tie-up is threatened, with
effects on trade,, industry, employment
and the national wellbeing that can be
better imagined than outlined. However,
it is not to be thought that Canberra is
inactive. A late word from Holloway,
the Minister of Labor, was that his Gov-
ernment had “not been asked to inter-
vene” ; the dispute was “still in the
province of the Ministry of Shipping.”
But on Monday he, Holloway, was to
have “talks” with Monk, secretary of the
A.C.T.U., and Senator Ashley, the
Minister of Shipping, was to “examine
the position.” Ashley is better qualified
to “examine the position” and bearings
of a betting book.
This is pre-eminently a time when Left-
Wing Jewish politicians should try not
to be flash and cheeky. Since Maxie
Failstfein got his watch-import licence,
had his trip to China and moved from
£lOOO p.a. to £l5OO p.a. he has become
flasher and cheekier than ever. Last week
he attacked Chiang’s China, applying
grossly offensive terms to “the Soong and
Kung families, bolstered up by their
private armies and exercising a ruthless
dictatorship,” and took the Communist
line against the Dutch in their East
Indies, asserting as well that criticism of
Dr, Evatt and his proceedings was in-
spired by jealousy. At the week-end
Harrison gave Falstein something to
laugh off by wanting to know from the
P.M. whether or not a concern of which
“a member is a director” had been
granted, by transfer, an import licence
for £43,500 worth of U.S. materials “after
you had stressed the need for conserving
dollars,” and whether or not a Customs
refusal had been overborne by Exchange
Control,
Fifteen years or so ago a Sydney Gov-
ernment in all sorts of difficulties banned
commercial road transport where it com-
peted with the insolvent Government
railways for distances up to 50 miles, and
on road transport over that distance
slapped a tax of 3d, a ton-mile. Road
transport survived somehow and now
retributive justice has arrived. The Gov-
ernment railways, insolvent once more,
are short of rolling stock as well as coal
and the promise of a bumper wheat
harvest is haunting O’Sullivan, the
Sydney Transport Minister. So O’Sullivan
is “considering” a “temporary” lifting of
the road tax so that road vehicles may
relieve his run-down railways.
The cost of a State funeral for Keane
was £927. A former P.M., Joe Cook,
was buried for an estimated £l5O, and
Roland Green, one-legged Digger and
good and faithful servant in many Par-
liaments, for £42. John Curtin’s
obsequies ran to £2834.
On the Chifley Budget Estimates for
1947-48 is “wheat contract with New
Zealand, £2,000,000.” The “wheat con-
tract with New Zealand” was arranged
by Scully with the late Minister Sullivan
when the latter’s party was going to a
doubtful election, and was completed by
Pollard. It provided for the sale of
18,000,000 bushels at ss. 9d., any dif-
ference between that and world parity
to be made up by the Australian tax-
payer—the original notion was that it
should be borne by the farmers. Last
year the thing cost the taxpayer
£877,000, so he will be up for nearly
£3,000,000 in two years. At the current
export price every bushel N.Z. takes from
Australia will cost the taxpayer 11s. 3d.
Westralian farmers are so wild about the
iniquitous business, with its implication
that the wheat a pi an grows belongs to
the “Government,” ’* that they threaten a
no-crops policy.
There is Budget provision of £4OOO
this year for “rabbit and dingo extermi-
nation” in the Australian Capital Terri-
tory. Some taxpayers are in favor of
the vote being substantially increased.
Chifley’s “Government” had a go at
running a mine at Coalcliff (N.S.W.). It
handed the thing back to the owners last
March, having had it for a little over
three years. The loss was £108,023 —
March 9 to March 31, 1944, £2867 ;
1944.45, £35,072 ; 1945-46, £31,283 ; July,
1946 to March, 1947, £38,801. And this
is the crowd that talks about running a
vast and complex banking system!
Chifley having announced that the
Kirby report on Sydney Land Sales
Control was about to be published Lang
asked why the good-as-“ Labor” Parry, “a
material witness,” had been privileged to
leave the country while the inquiry was
in progress and how many dollars he
had been privileged to secure. The reply
was that the “Government” did not
restrict any Australian from going abro.ad
unless he was the subject of criminal
prosecution. ' The P.M. forgot or chose
to forget the Australians going to U.S.
Army Air Force jobs in Guam who —
unlike Parry and Keane’s friend Goldberg
—were refused passports and were fobbed
off with identity-cards requiring them to
return within six months.
Two ladies of exceptional ability spoke
eloquently to their countrywomert last
week—Dame Enid Lyons against bank
expropriation to an audience of 3000 in
the Sydney Town Hall, Mrs. George
Vasey against the “meagre and belated”
7s. 6d. a week added to the pensions of
war widows with one child and those
with two children. This by a crowd which
voted another £5OO a year to the 111
members at Canberra and is about to
vote heaps more to the 19 Ministers.
“What we war widows got on the first
of July,” said Mrs. Vasey, “has gone in
the cost of living,” which, as everyone
knows, is rising all the time. “Giving
some of us a belated seven and six is not
raising the pension at* all”:
It still does not apply to sick women and
to those too old to work. And by what
dim-witted reasoning is the mother of one
-or two singled out for this paltry rise? Is
the third or fourth child not as expensive
as the first or second? Every sensible per-
son knows that it is.
Minister Barnard was reduced to whining
that “the widow with one child will get
four pounds a week.” Barnard would
rather walk from Canberra to Fremantle
by way of the Simpson Desert than try to
house, feed, clothe and pay fares for two
persons, adult and child', on £4 a week.
Sea law and shore law:
Ever since engines were first put into ships
the engineers have had free selection of firemen;
the chief engineer, power to dismiss an unsatis-
factory fireman at 24 hours’ notice on reaching
the home port. On his side the fireman can
leave at 24 hours’ notice. But all this has been
altered in Australia.
Last March a fireman was sacked from the
steamer Corio, then—and still —in Sydney. He
got work in another ship, but was taken from
it and returned to the Corio by the Communist-
controlled Seamen’s Union, his case being re-
ferred to the Maritime Industry Commission.
The M.I.C. ordered his reinstatement. The
engineers thereupon refused to take the Corio
to sea and were supported by their Institute
of Marine and Power Engineers. The M.I.C.
“logged” them, which meant they would get
marred discharges. The I.M.P.E. then an-
nounced that, unless they were reinstated, all
engineers would resign on October 1. There
followed the usual conferences and references-
of the dispute from this body to that, but
nobody got anywhere, and on Sept. 1 the
engineers gave notice of resignation. One of
those Conciliation Commissioners who are to
work wonders called a compulsory conference.
It failed and he sent the case to the Arbitra-
tion Court, whose Judge Kelly’s verdict was
“no jurisdiction.” The M.I.C. then offered
terms: restoration of the Corio engineers with
full rights, the engineers to man the vessel
provided the dismissed fireman was not in the
crew on departure from Sydney, the Corio to
pick him up on return if a vacancy
and he was available. Elliott, the Communist
secretary of the Seamen’s Union, refused the
terms.
Monk, for his part, ordered all “affiliated
unionists” to assist in the “manning and ser-
vicing of ships” if the engineers refused to
take them to sea, though no vessel with bigger
than 100-h.p. engines can go to sea witlmut
a certified engineer. It might be a good thing
for some people if ships could be run by shore
committees, but the indications are all the
other way.
Jobs for the vanquished! The Hanlons
lost a few friends at the Queensland
election. Williams," formerly Education
Minister, was deprived of the party nomi-
nation for Port Curtis; he is now an
organiser of junior farmers’ clubs.
Healy, defeated in Warwick, is a Trans-
port Commission “investigator.” Hayes,
beaten in the party ballot for Nundah, is
a Tourist Bureau “investigator.” Walsh,
Deputy Premier and Transport Minister
till Mirani rejected him, is State organ-
iser for the party. Who said anything
about preference to returned servicemen?
During the Queensland meatworks
strike in 1946,19 miners at Roughrigg col-
liery refused to join in a sympathy strike.
They were expelled by the Colliery Em-
ployees’ Union and Millar, the union
president, abused them with tongue and
typewriter. The 19 sought a declaration
from the Industrial Court that the ex-
pulsion was invalid and began proceed-
ings against Millar for defamation. They
won all along the line; Millar and his
associates had to climb down and find
£250 in settlement. Millar is a Com-
munist.
“Poor old Holloway” was bleating
that dollar restrictions couldn’t cause un-
employment, since his “Commonwealth
Employment Service” had vacancies for
45JDS0 men and 31,400 women, when
the Commonwealth Statistician was heard
from. That unassailable authority an-
nounced that in 1946-47 £910,822 was
paid in unemployed relief to 80,488 per-
sons, in most cases rendered idle by
strikes. These statisticians, cold realists
as they are, have a way of raising mock-
ing laughter at the expense of yoomani-
tarians like Holloway;
People who lunched or dined at the
Show in Melbourne were surprised, if not
delighted, to find oodles of cream on the
tables notwithstanding that a Canberra
ban (the second) had been placed on the
stuff for over three weeks. Butter manu-
facturers report that the cream which
they should be making into butter for
Britain is going to retailers ; pastrycooks
who are observing the regulation com-
plain that they are losing trade to their
less particular rivals; vendors of sand-
wiches object that they can’t get butter.
The Federal fiasco-makers suspended the
previous ban on the ground that it was
impossible to police it. This time they
promised 12 investigating officers, but a
fortnight after the imposition of the new
ban the gentlemen had not been sworn in,
though the supply of “investigating
officers” and the like can’t possibly have
given out.
As Minister Pollard has had to admit,
butter exports to Britain were down a
hundred million pounds in 1946-47 com-
pared with 1938-39, when the “Tories”
were in.
In his report on Sydney Land Sales
Control, Judge Kirby noted the confusion
caused through “officials” being set to
determine values without “any experience
in valuing land prior to their employment
in Land Sales Control,” being thus “quite
unqualified to undertake valuations.”
Returned servicemen, still hoping for
farms, promised in scores of thousands
by “Labor” politicians six years ago, will
read or have rbad his Honor’s remarks
in bitterness of spirit. They have been
told that the hold-up in subdivisions is
attributable to disagreements on values
between Commonwealth and State
“officials.”
A Victorian private airline concern
arranged for three trips from Warrnam-
bool, to Melbourne for the Royal Show
and booked passengers. It applied to
Civil Aviation for a permit. Civil Avia-
tion asked the Victorian Government
about it. The Show arrived before the
reply. Civil Aviation then granted the
permission. A sample of what anybody
running a business is likely to encounter
in this free and enlightened country,
especially if he is interested in a private
airline concern.


THE VENGEANCE OF THE LITTLE RED GOD.
"The British and American Governments have protested against ‘the judicial murder’ of Petkov, leader of the Bulgarian Peasant party, after a typical Communist 'trial.'”
“This ought to show those Anglo-American warmongers that we are de voted to peace."


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“MacHoors”: Mrs. Smith and Mrs.
Smithers (they have more elegant names
than these, but the story is true) are both
married to officers of the Commonwealth
Bank. Of high finance they know
nothing, but they fear for their husbands’
jobs —in particular for their chances of
managerships—so they came into Sydney
to sign the protest against nationalisation.
When about to sign, a new fear smote
them: that their names would be noted
by the Government and their husbands
victimised. A “S.M. Herald” corres-
pondent has said that many civil servants
have been afraid to sign the protest for
the same reason. But I do not write this
par merely to point out the obvious fact
that we have already in Australia a craven
fear of tyranny, ominously like the fear
of the State in Russia and Hitler’s Ger-
many. My friends, being Australians,
signed the protest; but, being women, a
comfortingly wily and obstinate tribe,
they signed false names.
# * * *
“M.U.R.”: The town of Renmark
(S.A.), down on the southward turn of
the Murray, got £4752 out of its com-
munity hotel profits for the year ended
June 30, and the local hospital is to get
£2OOO of it, the town council £350, the
irrigation trust £3OO, the R.S.L. building
fund £250 and various other public or-
ganisations will whack up the balance.
Thus, by spending its drinking money in
a community-owned pub, the town has
given itself slightly more than £1 a head
to spend on necessary community
amenities. Worked out on the same basis
any town or city in Australia could expect
the same result from community hotels —
always provided they were conducted as
efficiently as the Renmark one —and some
of the really hard-drinking places could
lift their local-government bodies out of
debt,
* * * *
“Loc”: A very comely lass surrounded
by grapes smiled out at me from a page
in a bulky overseas commercial adver-
tising journal. The advt.-writer’s tribute
to her ran to half a page, contained some
Homeric verse, and mentioned many of
the stars and at least four of the Muses
by name. “This is some advt.,” 1
thought, and wondered just what he was
trying to sell —some rich wine, crusted
with antiquity? Perhaps a sleek new
motor-car? Deflation came in the last
line, set in small type as if bewildered
at the magnificence of phraseology it
followed:
Give So-and-so’s ball-bearings a place
on your assembly line —they love to work!
* SfS * *
“Bo”; Those kindly-disposed minions
of the capitalistic press who perform
such yeoman service for socialistic
Arthur Calvell in his desperate hunt for
self-publicity were dutifully on hand when
when he turned up to welcome some
G.ls. and their families on the Marine
Phoenix. “Popular with children” whs
the fatuous caption to the photo, which
showed Melbourne’s Mandrake exhibit-
ing an awful fixed grin while he dandled
a very small boy on one knee and con-
templated a brace of others standing
beside him. The pictorial burning
of incense to Arthur’s great joss
might have taken a slight semblance
of conviction could the kids have
been induced to, put on an act to justify
the caption. But, as small boys will, they
just reacted naturally. One of them,
finger in mouth, looked as if a lusty bawl
was imminent. Another was registering
emotion that would have been in order
had he seen his favorite toy being
pinched. The one being dandled was
recoiling as if he had just beheld a' rattle-
snake. Possibly it was the awful fixed
grin—or it may have been that Arthur
had just used his foghorn voice on them.
* * * *
“Pookie”: Allegations that Canterbury-
Bankstown R.L. footballers were drunk
on the field at Brisbane, denials, resigna-
tions and all the solemn rigmarole of a
League inquiry remind me that those
things were settled much more simply at
Adelong (N.S.W.). Without much ex-
perience of football, I was full of keen-
ness, and on being advised that dry sherry
was good for the wind applied myself to
it zealously on the morning of a match
with Batlow. Actuated by the team spirit
I took a bottle to the match with me and
persuaded a couple of other players to
try it. Whether as a consequence of this,
or purely coincidentally, the play of all
three was spectacularly bad. Afterwards
Jack Isaac, a prominent figure in local
football life, advised us; “If you are
thinking of taking up drinking seriously,
drop football.” I haven’t played since.
* * * *
“Jerrick”: Unorthodox Jay Pees (B.
13 /8 / ’47)? We one in our Northern
Rivers township/ Of German extraction,
he was sitting on the Bench for the first
time. Complainant having completed his
evidence, the senior justice asked Hans
whether he would like to ask any ques-
tions. Hans addressed the complainant.
“Vas you down at the vharf lately?”
“Yes,” replied complainant, “I was down
there on Thursday and Friday last week.”
“Und did you see any fruit-cases dere?”
Complainant looked puzzled, but replied,
“Yes, there was a stack of fruit-cases on
the wharf.” “Und did you see anybody
take any?” “No.” Hans leaned back in
his chair, and murmured confidentially to
the senior, “Somebody vas steal a lot of
my fruit-cases from zat vharf! ”
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: A Melbourne
matron took an infant, aged five, to the
pictures, the film one of those “psycholo-
gicals” in which Freudian phraseology
is spattered all over the landscape. She
expected the opus to be over the head of
the youngster, who seemed to be sunk
into a profound slumber until the woman
in the case sat down and wrote a letter
to her husband saying she was going to
leave him. “It’s all right, Mum,” said the
boy in a loud whisper. “She’ll tear it up.”
She did
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Our office, though in the
heart of Australia’s largest city, is afflicted
with dogs. A couple of junior staff
members have gone in for the things and
drag their pets into the place in a sort
of contest for admiration. The feminine
staff lets out squeals and runs after the
slobbering pups, what time their owners
smirk and try not to burst with pride.
Sane men, deep in concentration, have
been startled by a yelping in the corridor
or a barking under the telephone, and
every now and then there’s a sort of dog
show in the corridors; you never know
what you’ll strike in dark corners about
the place, I suppose it’s all very touch-
ing and delightful, but the place for dawgs
is certainly not a city office—dammit, the
boss is beginning to bark and the pay-
clerk snarled at me the other day when
I sought an advance. 'And to see the
most sartorially perfect gent. in the place
frantically trying to reach something bit-
ing the small of his back has seriously
affected the decorum of the place. Any
day now I expect to find an elaborate
kennel or two on the main stairway.
*** * •
“Bingo”; Although Newcastle ear-
marked its first postmarked commemora-
tive stamp for the King’s collection, His
Majesty won’t get the actual “first” after
all. A week before the official date the
stamps were on sale at Lismore P.O. for
an hour before the mistake was noticed.
Some were used on mail posted that day,
September 1, and will doubtless be given
a special value by philatelists.
♦ * » ■ ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Where do old engines go,
anyway (B. 27/8/’47)? An English
comedian claims that an engine, when it
gets old, grows a long funnel, and is
pensioned off on a siding and given a few
trucks to play with. Perhaps the old
1063 has suffered that ignominious fate,
although an inhibition from my child-
hood days rebels at the thought. In her
heyday she was a striking sight, with
her number glittering as dazzlingly as
the rest of her brasswork and her gleam-
ing paint supporting the local contention
that she was the best cared-for and
polished loco, in N. S. Wales. She passed
through our little hamlet at about 4 p.m.
—just the right time for homing school-
kids astride the post-and-rail fence to
perform the nightly ritual of admiration.
Perhaps the driver didn’t know it, but
he was the most revered man in the dis-
trict, and no boy’s ambition rose above
the footplate of 1063. These days
few steam, trains go through, and the
modern kid cannot be blamed for fail-
ing to see romance or adventure in trains
that look like mechanical caterpillars.
* * * *
“O’Johnno”; Use of the term “Indo-
nesiap” in the all-embracing sense men-
tioned by “Feng-Shui” (B. 3/9/’47) is on
a par with Queensland’s one-time defini-
tion of the word “aboriginal.” Under a
loosely-framed Act Malays, Torres Strait
islanders, half-castes, West Indians and
Polynesians were all defined by the Chief
Protector’s ruling as “abos,” and as a
policeman could collect an “abo.” and
have him summarily sent to a penal estab-
lishment, some difficult situations
occurred. One “abo.” family of West
Indian blood had to obtain legal aid to
regain their freedom; and three-quarter
whites had to walk warily lest they cut
across dictatorship rules. Commonsense,
and a strong word of legal advice, caused
the Act to be altered,
♦ * * *
“Say-Wen”; Lads at R.A.A.F. station
were well posted as to the near-arrival of
Bill Expecto’s baby. Bill talked of
nothing else. When the infant arrived
the lads thought it was an opportune time
for a celebration. During Bill’s absence
over the loudspeaker came the announce-
ment: “Mr. Bill Expecto has just been
presented with a bouncing baby boy, so
Bill will meet all his friends in the
sergeants’ mess at 5 p.m.” At knock-off
time Bill unconsciously wandered down
to “have one,” but found an army await-
ing him. The sight of his infant even to-
day reminds him of it.
.“Oliver Filter”; I overheard it on a
ferry. She had a wonderful time in
England and then she simply had to see
France. It was marvellous, she said. She
went everywhere and even ate snails.”
“Snails! Oh, my dear, I couldn’t possibly
eat those things; they’re so dirty.” “Oh,
no, they’re not, m’ dear. I used to think
they were, but my daughter tells me they
always give them an aperient before they
kill them.” I’ll vouch for the conversa-
tion ; I can’t swear to the accuracy of the
information.
* * * *
“Domino”: Our boss was persuaded
to take a memory-training course. For
the next three months the serenity of
the office was shattered by daily bellows —
“Where did I put that blanky memory-
training course?” Our only reassurance
was that at least he did remember that he
had taken the course. Then one day the
representative of a rival school called on
him. When the interview had been in
progress for a few minutes the boss
buzzed for his secretary to ask, “What’s
the name of that memory-training
course I’m taking?”
* * * *
“Niloc”: If you cannot leap .Nijinsky-
like from bed wKen the alarm goes but
carry on meaningless snufflings until
kicked out by your spouse, then you are
apparently an ideal patient for a lady
now touring and lecturing in Australia.
Explaining how she became “just plain
vital,” the lecturer says:
Pink light-bulbs, curtains and other fur-
nishings in your bedroom will start your
day with a really rosy outlook. And re-
member this. People use up 2000 electronic
thought-waves a second, so .get your heart
under mental control, wake it up with
breath, then make it the town hall of your
body; force your breath to your brain,
where it will generate ougar, a vitalising
substance which the blood will carry
through the body with a sense of complete
re-birth Wake up, expel breath to the
utmost and relax, and then afterwards
breathe out love to all, everywhere. Breath
produces in the body the soul slate of
electrism.
Having gone through these waking man-
oeuvres, the average victim of sleeping-
sickness will find that it’s too late to go to
work anyway, and will no doubt generate
buckets of “ougar” while trying to think
up a good one for the boss.
* * * *
“Kennedy”: She stood opposite the
interviewing counter in the tax office.
Most of those waiting were showing im-
patience, but she stood there calmly.
After half an hour my number was
called and I breasted the grill with my
woes. At the same time the clerk at the
adjoining counter called the lady over.
“What’s your number, Madam?” She
showed the slip with the number on it
and he rummaged round trying to find
her papers. ' Again he called her, “Your
name, please?” She obliged sweetly.
“Nothing here,” he said. “Where did
you get the number?” “Oh! I picked it
up off the floor!” Yes, I would say she
has been voting for years.
Sfc * * *
“Golden Mile”: I like all those yarns
about the free and easy style of Queens-
land railways (B. 27/8/’47), but beat this
one. Was on the Boulder (W.A.) station
bidding good-bye to the suburban train
that linked with the soon-to-depart Perth
express. After much kissing, handshak-
ings and farewells the train of six coaches
got under way; then a porter sighted an
overcoat lying on a seat. Levers
were pulled, bells rang and the train, now
a thousand yards away, pulled to a stand-
still. Back into the station it rolled.
The forgetful one got his coat and then,
all duties of citizenship satisfied, the
train continued on to Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
“Linda” : I think I can beat “Pitt St.”
(B. 30/9/’47) and his “public servant
with the longest and most highfalutin
title.” What about the Assistant Chief
Designing Engineer of the Investigations
and Designs Branch of the State Rivers
and Water Supply Commission in Vic-
toria?
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: In a fight in Melbourne
a tough little Filipino won the bout, but
when the referee crowned him victor he
promptly fainted. The assumption was
that he was exhausted by the struggle,
but I have another explanation. In the
emotional stress of battle his old associa-
tions triumphed, and when the referee
patted him on the head he felt completely
humiliated. All through the Malayan
lands and in Japan, too, the head is
regarded as sacred. Two-storied houses
are the exception because in them one
man can stand above another. When the
Sultan of Djokja, Java, was presented
with a replica of London’s Lord Mayor’s
coach he couldn’t use it because the
driver’s seat was set above that of the
semi-divine passenger. I hear that in
Japan the democrats can now look down
on royal processions from the upper
stories, but if they do I wager they feel
guilty. When I attempted to get a bird’s-
eye view of Hirohito’s predecessor going
to worship at his mother’s tomb in pre-
war days I almost caused a riot.
THESE TIES!
Talk not to me of feminine excesses
In swanky swim-suits or in natty hats.
The bun for sheer outrageousness, my guess is,
Goes to the latest mode in men’s cravats —
An obsolescent term, you may surmise",
Well, call it neckwear, or just simply ties.
One wonders what aesthetic satisfaction
A chap derives from having beasts of chase,
’Roos on the run or racing dogs in action,
Limned on a strip of cloth beneath his face.
That, I suppose, is what they’re meant to be;
They always look like fantods, though, to me.
You’ll meet another beau with a selection
Of pictured blooms to decorate and deck
The front of his anatomy, the section
That lies between the breastbone and the neck.
His tie, though tacit, seems to have the powers
Of what’s entitled “saying it with flowers.”
Others display heraldic cognisances
Upon the ornamental garb that girds
What you might term their cervical expanses.
They might be dragons or they might be birds,
You’ll never know. And nous
I question if the haberdashers do.
Ah, never cavil at the pleasant passions
That sticking feathers in your cap can give,
Or kid yourself that following gaudy fashions
Is lovely woman’s sole prerogative.
Wait, I advise you, till your startled eyes
Fall on the very latest scream in ties.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Uco”: Return of the pint glass to
Sydney pubs recalls the terrible war years
when the only thing harder to find than
beer was a glass from which to drink it.
Chari told me the other day of his most
horrible experience of the whole war.
Having found a pub where the beer was
on, he thrust his way through the crowded
bar and breasted the counter. “Gimme
a beer,” he gasped. “Where’s your
glass?” asked Myrtle. “No glass, no
beer.” Chari struggled out again and
cantered down the street to the next pub.
This, too, was thronged, and most of the
throngers were drinking schooners. Wise
this time, he searched around, found an
empty schooner on the floor behind the
door, and with high hopes pushed through
the crowd and waved it at the barmaid.
“That your glass?” she asked. “Yes,”
lied Chari. “Well, no doubling-up,” said
the girl. “You’ve had yours. Make Way
for someone who hasn’t.” With a hollow
moan Chari backed away again, lurched
out into the street and tottered back ,to
the first pub, still gripping the schooner.
As he entered the bar Myrtle’s shrill
soprano rang out, “Sorry, boys, that’s all.
Beer’s off.”
“Jasby”: I don’t know whether the
service beer issue was extended to
Awas and Waaafs, but if it is true
that girls drank because they found
it “easier to go with the mob than
to resist” (B. 24/9/’47), the psychology
of female drinkers must be very different
from that of their brothers. In the Army
no one ever tried to persuade a teetotaller
to drink his issue; his abstention meant
two bottles extra for someone else. He
was always considered a good sort of
bloke to have in a tent; his tentmates
felt they had a prescriptive right to any
grog that came his way, and the only
time he was unpopular was when he
parted with his bottles to someone out-
side the tent. That, of course, was when
bottles were issued. In the islands, de-
spite denials by the Army Minister, the
two-bottle issue was never really main-
tained. After wharf-rats had taken their
cut, more had disappeared on the voyage,
in landing and in breakages on unit trucks
someone had to go short —and it wouldn’t
be Divvy H.Q. Arrears were supposed
to be made up, but they never were.
Shabbiest trick was worked in May,
1945, when there was a special issue of
one bottle per man to celebrate V.-E. Day.
We got it all right, but it was debited
against our next issue.
* * * *
“F.S.”: When I read art criticisms my
mind goes back to'my own first attempt.
I had taken a job on a weekly and was
sent along to “do” an exhibition of
paintings. When I got there I found it
still in the process of hanging. Artists
were running to and fro, an old man with
white hair, a famous teacher and a
young girl were arguing excitedly in front,
of a picture and there was a happy
camaraderie about the scene which made
me feel a bit of an outsider. Presently
the manager introduced me to a man,
distinguished-looking though somewhat
dandified, with a pointed face and care-
fully-trimmed beard. “This is Mr. F.S.,
the critic,” said the manager. “And this
is my first exhibition,” I said. “That’s
the stuff,” said the painter, giving me a
look of fury. “Absolutely unhampered
by experience.” And, turning his back,
George Washington Lambert walked
away, leaving the potentially great critic
in a cold sweat of humiliation.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The O’Kelly de
Galway who, as a Belgian, won the
European Zone chess championship and
a Smith who is prominent in Russian
chess, but is dinkum Russian, are two
instances of how misleading names may
be in forming judgments upon anybody s
nationality. The migration of ancestors
is usually responsible ; but there are other
causes. A Sydney man I know uses the
name of Cahill and is generally believed
to be of Irish origin. Actually, the C. A.
Hill of his business sign, when he first
put out his own shingle, was frequently
“I wish your father would go down the far paddock more often.”
misread by clients who addressed him as
“Mr. Cahill.” Finally he decided to
change his name rather than risk any dis-
location of the built-up business con-
nection. But his ancestors came from
Kent.
* * * *
“Strict Veg,”: A leading Melbourne
medico, a sensitive man, who gave a
wedding breakfast for his daughter, now
feels as if *he had eaten a postman.
Squabs were on the menu, and after the
sawbones had devoured his portion he
noticed a shining object on his plate. It
was the ring from the leg of a carrier
pigeon.
* * * *
“Carlyle”; “Looby” (B. 3/9/’47) is
right in giving high priority to “But you
don’t understand” as one of the inevi-
tables of film conversation. To my mind,
though, “Let’s get outa here” takes pride
of place. The value of this one to the
“industry” fifes in its being suitable for
almost any situation. It’s equally useful
for those quitting night clubs, dead
bodies and —in company with the latest
love interest—unwanted husbands or
wives.
* * * *
“Zake”: Hollywood, with the evident
intention of showing mouth-watering
housewives in other benighted lands what
their American opposite numbers can
enjoy, turns out a regular feature short
entitled “Popular Science,” the chief sub-
ject being almost invariably a “modern
“Er — um, pardon me, you are not married
yet.”
kitchen.” I’ve been watching that modern
kitchen become more modern over the
years, until it has taken on the appearance
of a futuristic one., It started off with a
few modest gadgets ; now it is of colossal
proportions, with enough buttons and
levers around to equip the instrument-
board of a Skymaster. The commentator,
expatiating on this vulgarly ornate
result of misguided scientific genius
which only a multi-millionairfe could
afford, chooses to refer to it as “a
housewife’s drfeam.’\ Rather, it would
prove a housewife’s nightmare. Con-
fronted with such an array of gadgets
she would become confused, and
a confused woman in a kitchen isn’t worth
a bumper. All a housewife wants, all to
herself, is a well-designed kitchen,
roomy but not too big, with adequate
pantry and cupboard space, and if she
dreams at all it is of possessing a mixing
machine, which you could buy before the
warfor £8 10s, but is now around £2O.
* * * ♦
“5 G.R.”: Missing files (B. 10/ 9/’47)?
Gen. Smyth, V.C., once consigned a file
to “The Officer in Command, Mounted
Troops, Nova Scotia,” and so got rid
of it. But when one file was similarly
dealt with a lot of history was Iqst to
Australia. In the first days of the 1914
confusion a young officer was sent to
guard a factory. His men had no food,
no cooking pots, no anything, so he ran
up a local account for £7O, That bill
kept on following him, and he kept head-
ing it back or on. Men who later made
history added facetious comments to the
file, artists sketched what they considered
the previous handler must have looked
like, stern generals wrote in red ink ; but
on Armistice Day the file caught up with
its originator, now thrice decorated and
not caring a damn. .He took the inch-
thick file to the hangar, tied it up in
aeroplane silk, bound it with wire, affixed
many seals and addressed it to His
Majesty, the King of Hedjaz, Now he
wishes he could lay hands on it.
« * ♦ •
“Col M.”: When a song commencing
with the line “Food, beautiful food” and
going on to describe rare
fit for a dozen kings was
first heard by a British audi-
ence they greeted it with
cheers, and, their mouths
still watering, bellowed for
an encore. Tucker has be-
come one of their fondest
subjects—one of widespread
wistful jest for which they
deserve a lot of admiration,
for it takes a great man to
laugh when he’s hungry.
Recently in the British Par-
liament’s “Question Time”
a Labor member asked if
the Commons Kitchen
Committee would have the
menus in the Parliamentary
dining-rooms printed in
English, declaring “For all
I know, I could be ordering
a rib-cut of the chef.”
Defending menu French,
Professor Douglas Savory
told the House that it
had been used for centuries
as a tribute to France’s “ex-
quisite cuisine.” Ben Levy
(Lab.) then offered to de-
vise a compendium of con-
cise English equivalents for
various dishes, but was
stunned when a lady mem-
ber arose and announced
that the most concise term
for “hors d’ceuvres” would be “an appet-
ising savory of vegetable, fish, etc,, served
in small portions before the main course.”
Socialist member George Chetwynd
brought the proceedings to an end by
suggesting that “if the Kitchen Committee
wanted to be concise, it could call prac-
tically everything on the menu ‘Sausage
Meat.’ ”
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: Can’t recall the buying
power of threepence in 1914 (B. 20/8/’47),
but can quote the market value of “two-
bob” in 1929. In that year an unem-
ployed mate of mine was given two-
shillings a day by his father to look for
work in the city. Return tram fares from
his Dulwich Hill home to Sydney would
absorb eightpence of the bank. Visiting
prospects advertised in the “Situations
Vacant” columns would keep him busy
tiil lunch-time. This would be supplied
gratis as counter-lunch with a fourpenny
pot of beer at one of several hotels, and
consisted of sausage rolls and sandwiches.
The afternoon would then be spent at a
picture-show, which then charged a shil-
ling, including tax. /
* * * •
“K.G.”: Ned Kelly’s skull (B.
17/9/’47)? The skulls of Nbd Kelly,
Martha Needle and Deeming were sal-
vaged and are now exhibits at the School
of Anatomy at Canberra. The trio were
among the 33 skulls dealt with in a
treatise by Richard J. A. Berry, M.D., and
L. W, G. Buchner. Of the 27 white
murderers 21 had a greater brain measure-
ment than Ned; Deeming was second-
last on the list. Martha Needle occupied
the lowest on the list of the women.
* « *
“F.S.”: Opening an exhibition of the
works of Rupert Bunny in Melbourne
the “Herald” Professor of Fine Art re-
marked that the artist’s musical know-
ledge was apparent in his painting. It
isn’t generally known that Bunny was
no mean composer. He was engaged
just before his death on a ballet of three
acts on the life of Jenghis Khan which
a local choreographer was to have set to
motion. I very much doubt, however, if
Bunny would have painted any differently
if he had known nothing about the art of
music. Degas expressed his opinion of
the critics who see the influence of one
art in another when somebody came up
to him at an exhibition and said:
“Wouldn’t you say, M. Degas, that the
influence of Debussy can be felt in that
painting?” “Oh, come,” said Degas,
“blue paint comes out of a tube, not an
inkpot.”
* * * *
“Petrie”: Ploughing a newly-cleared
paddock a Bathurst (N.S.W.) farmer re-
cently turned up an old Colt revolver,
vintage circa 1850. Although eaten away
by rust, the weapon was loaded in all
chambers, with its hammer still at full
cock. Bathurst police suggest that it was
originally carried by a bushranger who
came to a sticky end on the spot. The
revolver has been sent to Sydney police
museum.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: On Friday night
there is a definite association between
telephone boxes and drunks. I was re-
minded of this last week when I stood
among a small crowd waiting to use the
phones. My turn came and I made a
brief call. As I came out of the box
four men dashed towards it and met in
a jam at the door. They all drew back
a little, and the only completely sober one
spoke. “I want to ring up my wife. It’s
a matter of importance, but it won’t take
me a minute,” he explained. A genial
bloke who was feeling earthquakes under
his feet gestured to the others to make
way for the speaker. “Let him have the
first go, boys,” he said, magnanimously.
“He wants to ring up his missus ; we
only have to!”
* * * *
“Lord Lfeonard”: The vet. leaned out
of the window. “Hey, Bill!” he shouted.
“Mrs. de Boop wants to know if Basil
had his morning cuppa and did he like the
flowers.” “Yair,” came back Bill’s voice.
“Took him out a cup when I was havin’
me own. He thought the flowers were
bonzfer.” The vet. relayed this informa-
tion into the mouthpiece. A pause;
than he spoke again. “Was yester-
day’s chicken tender enough? Oh, very
tender! Did Basil like it? Why, I don’t
know when I’ve seen a chicken so
thoroughly enjoyed. Yes, all right, Mrs.
de Boop. Yes, I will. % Good-bye.” He
hung up, grinning. Come and meet
Basil,” he said to me. We went out into
the yard where all shapes and sizes of
animals sat in bored silence or moved
restlessly about in their pens. Behind
wire-netting lay a fat poodle, grunting
and snoring. “This highly-pedigreed
animal suffers from overfeeding. Every
now and then he comes tb us for rest,
quiet—and starvation rations.” At that
moment Bill drew near. “What do you
think Mrs, de Boop is sending over for
Basil?” my friend asked him. Bill looked
apprehensive. “Aw, cripes, not another
cooked fowl? Don’t she ever go to the
butcher’s?” He moped off, muttering,
“Chicken for lunch again !” I stayed for
lunch. It was a very tender chicken. We
took it round to show Basil before we put
it on the table.
RETURN OF THE PINT.
“Pint beer glasses, holding 200 z., have reappeared
in Sydney' hotels, after an absence of years.’*
“You meaner beauties of the night.
You common people of the skies,”
A poet once was moved to write
(You’ll find it in anthologies)
“Where are you when the moon shall rise?”
And similarly one may ask,
These measures we’ve been forced to drain
To slake our thirsts—no easy task—
How many of them will remain
Now that the pint is back again?
It holds such magic as the moon.
The meaner beauties of the bars
Must fade before its lustre soon,
As Luna on her rising mars
The trivial twinkling of the stars.
The schooner loses half its lure,
A slump is in the middie’s biz,
The butcher —well, I’m none too sure
What size of glass a butcher is.
1 fear ’twould stump me in a quiz.
The pint is back upon its throne
Where brown October foams and pops
Regains the place so long its own
And once again is counted tops
By chaps consuming malt and hops.
The niggard fractions disappear;
Full twenty ounces, is it not?
What, landlord, ho! a pint of beer,
That old acquaintance, nigh forgot,
Alternatively termea a pot.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


could you find jC s in a hurry?
With the cost of living at its present level, and the grow-
ing needs of to-day’s youth, there are few indeed, be-
tween the ages of 17 and 25, who could quickly find
the money necessary for emergency medical services.
An X-ray, a minor or major operation or accident, always
a contingency, must be paid for, and should you be sud-
denly called upon to meet this expense, you would be
happy in feeling that you had provided the means of
meeting it.
The MEDICAL BENEFITS FUND, calling for the small
sum of 1/- PER WEEK, for those under 21 years of
age and 1/6 PER WEEK for those 21 years and over,
protects you and your savings. It gives you freedom to
select your own Doctor and the medical and surgical
benefits are the most comprehensive of any scheme in
the world. Thousands of young men and women have
learned the advantages of contributing to the Hospital
Fund, and thousands will also protect themselves against
emergency medical expenses by becoming contributors
to the Medical Benefits Fund.
Write for complete details
and application form to-day ,
• SPONSORED BY THE MEDIC A]L PROFESSION
• MANAGED BY THE HOSPITALS CONTRIBUTION FUND OF N.S.W.
MEDICAL BENEFITS FUND
OF N.S.W. LTD. 7 HAMILTON ST.. SYDNEY. Telephone: BU 5951.
SPECIAL OFFER
STOCKS LINBTED
BUY YOURS TODAY!
gEM
I IEJJt-
h2
3
z
SET
GEM
• GEM RAZOR • 2 GEM BLADES
• SERVICEABLE BAKELITE CASE
GEM
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
“KEENER THAN EVER ”
NOW 5 FOR 1/9
From most Stores, Chemists and Tobacconists.
n tt jk/r
w JkWJk
OVERPROOF
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848 NO
THE SERVICE MAN
VISHINSKY, DMITROV AND PUPILS.
“Ek Dum”: Last week was Soviet
Week with a vengeance. It was the begin-
ning of the era of thfe great assault on
“Fascism.” “Fascism” is anything and
everything to which Moscow and its
agents object.
Russian methods of world conquest
differ from those of Caesar, Alexander and
Napoleon, but they have the same objec-
tive. Caesar, Alexander and Napoleon
by Moscow standards were “mugs,” be-
cause they went out in a clumsy fashion
and attacked their enemies without
Trojan-horse preparation.
The Russian method of making war is
more diabolical. The first part of the plan
is to send your emissaries to ingratiate
themselves with the lower orders of mobs
in the country to be attacked ; to create
dissension, to destroy confidence in the
Government, to white-ant thfe defence
forces, to turn class against class, so that
when the point of actual war comes the
enemy is too weak to resist. The pro-
cess is assisted by the inertia and credulity
of people in the countries marked down
for conquest —Australia is a prime ex-
ample.
It is almost impossible to persuade an
average Australian that “militant” trade-
“Got to look after the old gal, Thomas—my shipmate for twenty
years , y'know."
union policies are almost entirely gov-
erned by the whims of bloodthirsty
Balkan ruffians; but this has been the
case for many years. The Australian
Communist party has had a representa-
tive on the World Executive of the Com-
munist party ever since it was admitted
to the Third International in 1922-23. The
secretary-general was then Rakosi, now
Communist dictator of Hungary, as
bloodthirsty a terrorist as ever lived,
Rakosi signed the telegram of admission,
In 1921 the general secretary of the
* . . n „ rt „ fr>r ,v
Australian Communist Party took part
in the Trade-Union Congr
drafted the socialisation objective or t
Australian Labor party (accepted later
by the political wing). He was a member
of the drafting committee—it included
two future Prime Ministers—which de-
cided on methods by which the socialisa-
tion objective should be obtained.
“Dispense with Patriotism”
K xu a
In February, 1923, the Au r
Communist party, with a representative
on the world executive, had passed its
probation and received its charter upon
signing acceptance of 21 conditions. One
(No. 17) was that “all decisions of
the E.C.C.l.—the Communist World
Executive—are binding upon the bodies
affiliated to it.” This condition was
embodied in the Australian Communist
party rules (No. 10 in later drafts).
Another condition adopted read:
(6) It is the duty of every party desiring
to belong to the Third International to
dispense not only with avowed patriotism
but also with dishonest and hypocritical
pacifism and systematically to demonstrate
a°y lh ov^rt r hr e ow Capitalism no° Tnt°er-
national court of arbitration, no discussion
of the reduction of armaments, no demo-
cratic reorganisation of the League can
preserve mankind from fresh imperialist
wars.
The general secretary of the Comintern
when this condition was accepted was
Kolarow, a Bulgarian. Kolarow remained
general Secretary for many years, and
during World War II was drafted into the
U.S.S.R. Foreign Affairs Department at
Moscow. The war, in fact, revealed that
he, in common with other odious ruffians
who were the fathers of Australian Com-
munism, was actually an employee of
the Soviet Union Government.
After the war Kolarow returned to
Bulgaria to help his successor in the
Comintern secretaryship, Georgi Dmitrov,
to implement the Communist Revolution
and turn Bulgaria into a U.S.S;R.
province. Kolarow and Dmitrov, an
equally bloodstained ruffian, had not
visited their native land in the previous
quarter-century because they had left it
in a hurry after failing in a terrorist
revolution.
They became even more determined to
remain away after they had been caught
in the plot which resulted in the blowing
up of Sofia Cathedral, with 123 mourners,
in 1925. At that time the Australian
Communist party had embodied in its
rules its pledge to take its orders from
Kolarow and his executive, many of
whom have since been executed on
Kremlin orders.
Vishmsky s Game
Over the years Section 6 orders have
not changed. They are the basis of all
the Communist party’s operations,
whether international or within any single
country. They also are the basis of the
policy of Molotov and Vishmsky at
U.N.0., as will be seen by a study of their
tactics. Their objective is not to make
UN _ a WQrki b ' u( (0 .. systematicaUy
demonstrate to the workers” that “with-
Qut Evolutionary overthrow of capi-
talism.... no democratic reorganisation
jftg L ea g Ue can preserve mankind from
imperialist wars.”
Hence the continual use of the veto,
the continual provocative speeches, the
continual suggestions that other countries
intend to attack Russia, so that the Soviet
leaders can say to their own gun-fodder
and to their dupes abroad; “These people
are p re p ar mg to ma k e war on our
temple of peace. Let us get in first.”
'jheir method is the same in individual
countries and assemblies and unions as
ft j s j n u.N.O.
Thus the “Communist Party Training
Manual (Australia)” says Communists
enter Parliaments to destroy them, and
enter the industrial wing of the Labor
party to destroy that party and replace
it with their own structure, a structure
built for insurrection—for war.
“Forcible Overthrow”
r „ • .
The Programme of the Communist
International,” one of the many editions
ft published by the Australian Com-
munist party, says-and in black type: -
The Communists disdain to conceal their
views and aims. They openly declare that
their aims can be attained only by the


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ERIC HARRIS late of Bathurst.—TAKE NOTICE
that IRENE HARRIS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2924 of 1947 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Sydney by
the 10th December 1947 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from JOHN CHARLES
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of St. James Buildings, 107-09
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South Wales. — (1.5.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAMES HOWARD.—TAKE NOTICE that ALLAN
LEWIS RENWIOK has filed an Answer in Suit No.
1675 of 1947 in which he alleges that you have
been guilty of adultery with NORMA IRENE REN-
WICK and in which he requests that his marriage
be dissolved If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 10th December 1947
and obtain a copy of the answer without charge from
A. R. BALDWIN & CO., 33-89 Hunter Street, Sydney.
—’(l.s,) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ALFRED COATES.—TAKE NOTICE
that BARBARA ARMISTICE COATES has filed a
Petition in Divorce No. 3114 of 1947 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend the suit
you may enter an appearance on or before the 20th
of October 1947 at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney and a copy of this petition
may be had without charge from S. S. MITCHELL,
Solicitor, Bank Corner, Wickham. —(l.s.) C. k!'
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Candles, a form of indoor illumina-
tion much in favour during the
Georgian and Victorian periods,
owing to their portability and decora-
tive effects for various domestic and
public functions.
The making of modern candles from
stearine is still quite an important
industry, their soft glow being
particularly favoured.
Electric lighting has replaced candles
for domestic use, and none of us
would prefer the uncertain flicker of
candlelight to the clear steadiness of
an OSRAM ELECTRIC LAMP.
OQsram
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Made in Australia for The General Electric Co. Ltd. of Enaland
c Sieetiic Cc.iffify.j&d.
(Sole Australian Representatives of The General Electric Co. Ltd. of London)
SYDNEY * NEWCASTLE * MELBOURNE * ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • LAUNCESTON
-' 8 m
mm
m
i
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited 1
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies;—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
forcible overthrow of all existing social
conditions. Let the ruling class tremble
at a Communist revolution. The proletarians
have nothing to lose but their chains.
The fundamental slogans of the Com-
munist International must be: Convert
imperialist war into civil war; defeat the
“home” imperialist Government; defend the
U.S.S.R. and the colonies by every possible
means in the evept of imperialist war
against them International Communist
discipline must find expression in the sub-
ordination of partial and local interests of
the movement to its general and lasting
interests and in the strict fulfilment, by all
members, of the decisions passed by the
leading bodies of the Communist Inter-
national.
The Comintern—the Communist Inter-
national —ostensibly came to an end in
1942, but it had never existed. What
had existed had been a branch
of the Moscow Foreign Office operating
abroad. It had been operating from
Berlin when Australia became 'a member
of it. It moved to Moscow when Berlin
became too hot. After World War II
broke out it moved to Vienna, receiving
special facilities from Hitler so that it
might use the world Communist parties
as a German spy and disruption system.
When Arthur Rudkin, now employed
by the Commonwealth Government in a
department full of defence secrets, was
sent to jail in Perth (W.A.) in 1940, the
raids which produced material to convict
him disclosed that the Westralian branch
of the Communist party was —at the most
perilous period of the German war —in
communication with Vienna.
But in 1942, Russia’s bloody ally hav-
ing attacked Russia, and Russomania
being at its height, Moscow de-
cided that henceforward it had sufficient
grip of the imagination of the world to
do its own dirty work.
So the staff of the Comintern and of
the Red International of Labor-Unions
was absorbed into the Foreign Office in
Moscow. Kolarow and Dmitrov had al-
ready entered the Foreign Office staff—
Kolarow as Assistant Foreign Commissar,
Dmitrov as Governor-General of Russia’s
share of conquered Poland. Losovsky,
who had been secretary of the Red Inter-
national of Labor-Unions—Australian
section, N. S. Wales Labor Council —
became chief publicity officer.
Moscow no.w began to appoint em-
bassies to “capitalist” countries. Their
real purpose has been demonstrated in
Canada.
What is happening in U.N.O. at present
is perfectly in line with Communist
policy, which aims at causing disruption
between nations, and within nations, since
division is the mother of weakness.
The words of Vishinsky about war-
mongering imperialist nations are not his
own. They were issued and uttered long
ago by Lenin, later by Stalin and then
by Dmitrov in 1935; still again by
Dmitrov when he issued orders as
general secretary of the Comintern —
printed at Sydney in 1939 before the war
broke out, and issued when the German-
Russian plans in Poland had reached
fruition. The orders were that world
Communists should have nothing to do
with the “imperialist war” against Ger-
many and should demand that the British-
French allies make peace with Hitler,
since there was nothing to fight for,
Germany and Russia having divided the
booty. It was on Dmitrov’s orders that
the Australian Communist party changed
its war attitude in 1939.
The Insurrection Plan
The instructions which Kolarow had
issued to the Australian Communist party
in 1923, and which have been supple-
mented and confirmed a hundred times
since, laid down the programme of the
war for world conquest along a line as
clear today as it was then.
Communists were to “join the Labor
party (trade-unions) and capture it,” then
force upon the community, “by leading
the masses,” a “gradual transition to pro-
letarian rule,” through strikes and other
means. But the object of this was not to
get merely “something like democratic
government,” with everything in the
hands of a Labor party controlled by the
Communist party through union leader-
ship. Wrote Kolarow to the “Australian”
Communists:
On the contrary you must be perfectly
aware, and leave no doubt in the minds of
the masses of the proletariat, that the win-
ning of a majority in the Labor party will
tremendously increase the struggle against
the bourgeoisie, compelling capitalism to
resort to most savage measures and violence.
Such is the logic of the revolutionary class
struggle. He who fears the consequences
of this logic should cease to call himself a
Marxian revolutionary and a Communist.
The bourgeoisie will become increasingly
restless, provocative, brutal and ruthless
in the precise measure that its reformist
agents, the leaders of the Labor party,
will lose their influence over the masses
[The winning of control over the Labor
party] by Communists means no softening
of the class struggle but its aggravation
no slackening of revolutionary propaganda
but rather the increasing consciousness of
the proletarian masses that the bourgeoisie
will not shrink from civil war.
Tie Australian Communist party’s
“Training Manual” outlines the develop-
ment of the programme till a controlled
Labor party expropriates property and
complete socialisation is obtained on the
basis of “all rights to the workers and no
rights to any but the workers,” with
future opposition prevented.
The stage will be reached when nothing
can be gained by temporising, and when
the dictatorship of the proletariat is
attained by “arming the workers” {i.e.,
the Communist party) “to break the re-
sistance of the expropriated landowners
and capitalists.” The workers will “seize
power and shatter the resistance of the
former ruling class.”
It needs to be emphasised that every-
thing quoted in this article comes from
Communist party documents printed
officially by the party in Australia and
reaffirmed in principle and, by action
again and again.
Revolution in Being
In U.N.O. Vishinsky is repeating, with
objectives directed against Britain and
the United States, the exact tactics, in-
deed, the exact words, used by Dmitrov
when general secretary of the Comin-
tern, and in effect Russia’s de facto
Foreign Secretary, in 1935, against Ger-
many and Italy.
In Australia, the phases of conquest
of the Labor party and the enforcement
through it of the socialisation plans now
in being are very much in evidence. And
any close .watcher of the scene will note
that no remark which can be twisted to
mean that the victims of the programme
might contemplate the formation of “a
new guard” or resist the “reforms” physi-
cally is allowed to be overlooked by the
Communist press or by “Labor” spouters
oddly addicted to • thinking Communist
thoughts.
The hope is ever present in the minds
of ruffians who have gained control of
large organisations that the stage is
fast coming when it will be possible to
find an excuse to “arm the revolution and
break the resistance of the expropriated
landholders and capitalists.”
Bulgarian Prototype
What happens in this final stage which
produces the Communist millennium is
being demonstrated in Bulgaria by Kola-
row and Dmitrov, who gave the Aus-
tralian Communist party its charter and
who have been its mfentors and instructors
continuously for 25 years.
Having, with Russian help, seized
control of the Bulgarian Government,
they are engaged in breaking the resist-
ance of “the landholders and capitalists.”
The Opposition has been wiped out.
Private property has virtually been wiped
out. The free press has been wiped out.
And now the former owners of the land
and capital—nearly all peasants—are
having their “resistance broken” with
arms and the hangman’s rope with which
their leaders are being wiped out after
trials which would have disgraced Caligula.
The latest to die, amid the horror-
stricken protests of the democratic world,
was Nikolai Petkov, leader of the Peasant
party, a patriot who stood beside the
Allies throughout the war, even in the
days when Stalin, Vishinsky, Dmitrov
and Kolarow, not to mention the Aus-
tralian Communist party, were sharing in
the general jubilation voiced by a
message from the Kremlin (January 1,
1940) to the late unlamented Ribbentrop
which recorded that the “friendship” of
U.S.S.R. and Hitler’s Germany had
been “cemented in blood,”
It is not without a moral for certain
politicians at Canberra that those who
have suffered the most complete and
drastic wiping out in Bulgaria, and who
died least regretted and almost un-
noticed, were those who delivered up their
organisations to Communists and did not
try to resist until it was too late.
Hundreds of these gentry have been
sunk, unmourned, without trace, by the
Australian Communist party’s tutors.


t n /f rf
T HaL/
IGfi
*
io~
TQ47
X 4/ A i
ASK
FOR
MAKERS OF GOOD WINE FOR 100 YEA
PERSONAL ITEMS
From a bed in the Mercy Hospital,
Melbourne, 79-year-old Sol Green,
added to his benefactions £42,000 for
leading hospitals in the city, with the
remark that there’ll be more next yesr
if he’s still alive. A Londoner who
came to Australia at 15, and turned book-
maker, Sol selected Yom Kippur for the
date of his gift and added some observa-
tions on racial and religious' bigotry and
his love for Britain. H 6 gave £5OOO to the
victims of the London blitz and £50,000
in perpetuity to build homes for Aus-
tralian ex-servicemen of World War 11.
A couple of months ago the doctors
advised him to curtail his activities and
he sold his Bacchus Marsh stud. Most of
the proceeds went to kindergartens and
other public institutions.
First woman in the Empire to be
awarded a life membership of the
Justices’ Association, Mrs. Jeanne Forster
Young, 0.8. E., of Adelaide, has been a
J.P. for 30 years. Joining Catherine
Helen Spence in work for Proportional
Representation more than 50 years back,
Mrs. Young has been president of the
Society since 1930. She founded the
C. H. Spence scholarship for women, was
first and only woman on the Board of
Governors of the S.A. Public Library,
Museum and Art Gallery, 1916-28, and
was elected president of the Democratic
Women’s Association in 1937. She’s the
author of a biographical study of C. H.
Spence and completed and prepared for
publication that grand old lady’s auto-
biography.
Retired 'from office of Comptroller-
General of Prisons in N.S.W., Colonel
George Francis Murphy, C.M.G., D.S.O.
and bar, a grand little terrier of a man
known throughout the old A.I.F. as O.C.
18th Battalion. Like Blarney, and many
other good soldiers, he was a school-
teacher when World War I broke out,
and he reached Gallipoli as a captain in
the 18th. Before the campaign was
over he was commanding the bat-
talion, also the rearguard at Plugge’s
Plateau and then on Anzac Beach during
the evacuation. He led it with unfailing
success throughout its career on the
Western Front. On return to Australia
Murphy threw himself wholeheartedly
into the building up of the R.S.L. and the
early Anzac Day celebrations, was cus-
todian of the Sydney cenotaph, an inspir-
ing force in the perpetuation of old 18th
Battalion traditions in the post-war militia
unit, and an enthusiast in rifle-club de-
velopment. He was Sheriff and Deputy
Marshal of the High Court in N.S.W.
from 1935 to 1939, and in 1940 was
appointed to the post from which he has
just retired. Headquarters of Allied Land
Forces claimed him in World War II as
director of V.D.C, Rifle Clubs, Provost-
Marshal and director of Military Prisons
and detention barracks. He was not only
a fine soldier but had the power to in-
culcate the best soldierly qualities in his
subordinates.
Dead in Melbourne at 74 after a long
illness, John William Leckie, a member
of the Senate from 1934 till last June.
Born in Alexandra (Vic.) he was cham-
pion athlete of his year at Melbourne
Scotch, and played first-grade football for
Fitzroy when the century was young. He
farmed around Alexandra for a few
years, then moved to Melbourne and
founded a# canister manufactory, with
politics at first on the side and later his
main passion. He had four years in the
Victorian Assembly and two years as
M.H.R. for Indi; his comeback was made
in the Senate 15 years later. Senator
Leckie had a quiet sense of humor. On
one occasion Senator Collings was holding
forth in the Senate on the glories of Can-
berra and instanced the Federal Capital’s
high birthrate. Leckie interjected gruffly
“Nothing else to do here.” Opposition-
leader Menzies is a son-in-law.
Some October literary anniversaries:
On the Ist dramatist Garnet Walch (1843)
and Doris Booth ( Mountains, Gold and Can-
nibals) were horn; on the 3rd, novelist Stella
Miles Franklin. Poet Hugh McCrae (1876)
arrived and Robert Richardson (1901) died
on the 4th, and on the sth Chris Brennan
(1932) died and John Bede Dailey (1878) was
bom. Seventy-five years ago on the 9th,
Bertram Stevens, editor and anthologist, and
two years later on the 10th children’s writer
Louise Mack came into the world. In 1864 on
the 11th Dr. C. H. Souter (South Aust. poet) and
in 1879 on the 12th “John O’Brien” (Rev. Fr.
Patrick Hartigan), author of Around the Boree
Log, took their first breath. On the 13th
came Guy Boothby (1867), Jack McLaren
(1887), of My Crowded Solitude fame, and
poet and music-critic W. J. Turner (1889),
N.S.W. Premier and poet William Forster was
bom in 1818 on the 16th and died on the
30th at the age of 64. Novelist Frederick
Howard was born in 1904 on the 17th, and
on the 19th Adam Lindsay Gordon (1833),
Tas. novelist Hilda Bridges and poet and
travel-writer Nina Murdoch also were ushered
into this vale of tears. On the 21st 101 years ago
Ernest Favenc and also on the 21st in 1871
Louis Stone ( [Jonah and Betty Wayside ) were
bom. At the age of 37 brilliant Daniel Henry
Deniehy died in 1865 on the 22nd. The 27th
brought poet Henry Tate (1873), the 28th the
elder John Le Gay Brereton (1827), on the 29th
poet J. B. O’Hara (1864). Novelist and cham-
pion of female rights Catherine Helen Spence
was born 122 years ago on the 31st.
M. J. Noonan, president and life mem-
ber of the L.V.A. in S.A., has resigned
because the association rejected his
motion that the Licensing Act should be
amended to prevent any person having
an interest in more than one licence. He
claims the Act, which does require indi-
vidual licensees, is being “side-tracke4
by certain ambitious people, who form
a separate company for each hotel, but
with shareholders and directors the same
people in all.” The L.V. is “being ex-
terminated by some greedy brewing com-
panies” ; but “I have no quarrel at all
with the S.A. Brewing Co.; they are
reasonable landlords, and do not put
managers in.”
Charged with the task of making
Queensland the principal tourist State,
E. A. Ferguson has been appointed
director of its Tourist Bureau, An officer
of the Chief Secretary’s department, he
spent five years in the Agent-General’s
office in London, during which time he
made a survey of tourist organisation in
the U.K., France and America. Queens-
land already runs tourist agencies in
Sydney and Melbourne and will shortly
open an office in Adelaide. A. E. Cole,
till recently head of the Bureau, is going
tb W.A. to enter private business. He
has bought the golf club-house and land
at Bunbury.
Four years in the A.1.F., part of it as
a sergeant with an anti-aircraft battery in
New Guinea, hardly seems the sort of
preparation for a musical feat of the pro-
portions achieved by the 25-year-old
pianist Dallas Haslam. However, he
started fingering the ivories at 10, and
was already a fine musician when the
war gongs sounded. He has since won
his diploma of music with first-class
honors, is in his third year for Mus. Bac,,
MUSIC.
and has been awarded the Guilliard
Scholarship entitling him to three years’
study in New York. Haslam recently
appeared with the Melbourne and Sydney
symphony orchestras as a soloist in con-
certos. The family can tuftn out a trio —
sister Joan is a violinist with the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra and a
brother plays the ’cello. Another brother
was killed in action.
Drawn below by Prior, Tom Inglis
Moore joined the Second A.I.F. as a
gunner and finished as a major in Army
Education. Now lecturer in Pacific
Affairs at the Canberra University Col-
lege, he goes to Japan in December to
LETTERS.
lecture to the 8.C.0.F. A genial and
charming six-footer, Tom has had a busy
and varied scholastic career. Born at
Camden (N.S.W.) he went from Sydney
University to Oxford on a scholarship,
thence to America as an instructor in
English at an academy in Massachusetts
and at the University of lowa. For three
years he was Associate Professor of Eng-
lish at the University of the Philippines,
then a tutorial lecturer in literature at
Sydney Uni, and sub-warden of St.
Paul’s college, Sydney. When he turned
soldier he had just finished six years of
“S. M. Herald” leader-writing. He’s
a past-president of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers and a member of the
Advisory Board of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund. His publications include
a novel. The Half-Way Sun, two books
of verse, a radio verse play, and a book
of literary criticism, Six Australian Poets.
In addition, he edited Best Australian
One-Act Plays (1937) and Australian
Poetry, 1946.
“Boatman’s Mate” meets an old friend:
On a leisurely trip through the south-west
of W.A. I ran across your erstwhile correspon-
dent Ronald Kennedy (the Bungaree Boatman).
Owing to the vagaries of the postal service, a
letter, posted some days earlier to announce
our visit, had not arrived. We had spent a
couple of hours looking for the boatman’s
residence as a result of an unjustified faith
in our ability to find our own way about, so it
was nearly dark when we lobbed. Summoned
by his wife, a huge form loomed out of the
fading light and we perceived the boatman,
a hammer in his hand and wearing round his
waist a carpenter’s pouch.
Retired from the navy, the boatman is living
in comfort with a charming wife, a goodly
assortment of books and some 2000 sheep.
The latest Bulletin and Frith’s original draw-
ing of himself were in evidence. He told me
that in order to acquire such necessities of life
as the land does not produce he has joined the
Urgers’ Union and has risen to be the chief
urger in his district. Present occupation—build-
ing, practically singlehanded, a woolshed and
sheepyards, in the course of which he threw
joists and other large pieces of timber about
like matches. We admired the drafting race
and gate, the latter placed to his own design
under a spreading tree where he can take his
stand, puff his pipe and manipulate the gate,
shielded from the heat and glare of the sun.
Most of the material had been acquired through
the persuasive tactics of the aforesaid union,
but he admitted sadly that even it had not been
able to conjure up all the needful materials.
Anyone able to produce 301 b. of springhead roof
nails will be admitted to membership of the
union, with a hearty roar of appreciation from
the chief urger.
Dead in England, at 81, Richard le
Gallienne, poet, journalist and essayist.
and one-time private secretary to actor
Wilson Barrett. The beauty boy among
the writers of the ’nineties, Le Gallienne
poured out a series of poems, essays and
translations, edited an edition of
Izaak Walton’s Compleat Angler and
a verse translation of Omar Khayyam.
His prose works included the popular
Romantic ’Nineties, Old Love Stories
Retold and From a Paris Garret—
there was a strong strain of romance
running through all his output. The
American actress Eva le Gallienne is
a daughter and a nephew is Dorian le
Gallienne, one of Melbourne’s leacjing
composers, who wrote the music for
recent productions of “Othello” and
“Macbeth.”
Appointment of Arthur Rowland Mc-
Comb to the Qantas board will be
welcomed by those who know his record
in civil aviation. A Queenslander who re-
ceived his education at Brisbane
Grammar he is 55. Thirty-two years
ago he had a job on Gallipoli and
later in the A.F.C. After the armis-
tice he surveyed the landing grounds
between Melbourne and Longreach for
the England-Australia flights in 1919, and
has been associated with the Department
of Civil Aviation ever, since. At various
times has been inspector of aerodromes,
chief inspector of ground organisation,
controller of ground operations and until
recently was Australian representative on
the 1.C.A.0. at Miontreal. He was chair-
man of the Air Navigation Committee
and a member of the Air Transport Com-
mittee. A surveyor by profession, he is
a past president of the Queensland Sur-
veyors Institute.
On the face of it, seems strange that
the president of the Central Bank of
China, where the currency appears to
have gone to the bow-wows, should have
elected by the governors of the new
International Bank as their chairman.
But the incongruity must have some ex-
planation that does not detract from the
ability of Mr. O. K. Yui, who prefers that
Westernised (and Cantonese) variation of
the “mandarin” rendering of his name,
Yu Hung-chun. The “0.K.” is not, as
some have supposed, some facetious re-
minder of his career in that seat of learn-
ing founded by aid of the American
Methodist Mission; those initials stand
for the Cantonese equivalents of Hung-
chun, just as the Cantonese add an “i” to
the end of the Yu. O. K. Yui was born in
Kwangtung 51 years ago ; he was secre-
tary-general to the mayor of Shanghai in
1930-37, and thereafter mayor himself —
and in China the mayor of a great city is
Governor and a high political executive.
He has been Finance Minister and presi-
dent of the Central Bank of China since
Dr. H. H. Kung vacated those offices in
1941, and there must be few Chinese to-
day who can talk more confidently on
the same level with Western statesmen.
Into the Silence:
At Caulfield (Vic.), at 90, George Reynold-
son, one-time member for Deniliquin in the
N.S.W. Assembly. He was elected in 1904
but did not contest his seat three years later.
As a young man he selected 320 acres at
Strathmerton (Vic.), and in the ’Bo’s was presi-
dent of Numurkah shire. Later he had a
farming and grazing property near Berrigan.
At 63, at Ivanhoe (Vic.), John Frederick
Key, an Englishman who electrified Vic-
torian railways. Later he was engineer for
Electrolytic Zinc and Broken Hill, then served
in World War I, being released by Lloyd
George to reopen a mine in Australia. Up to
18 months ago he was chief mechanical and
electrical engineer for the Board of Works in
Melbourne.
In New York, at 8), John O’FFara Cosgrave,
journalist and philosopher. Born in Melbourne
and educated in M.L., he migrated to San
Francisco in 1886 and rose in the U.S. Inky
Way to several leading editorial positions on
the N.Y. “World,” “Everybody’s Magazine”
and “Collier’s Weekly.” After his retirement
he wrote philosophical works.
In Adelaide, at 91, James Hall, after a
lifetime in the soda-water business. In young
manhood a noted footballer, he became mayor
of Kensington and Norwood, a leading man in
the C.T.A. and chairman of the Adelaide Racing
Club —for 23 years. Hall claimed to have been
the first commercial traveller to visit Broken
Hill. That was in 1887.
At Tamworth (N.S.W.), at 73, Albert Joseph,
managing director of the “Northern Daily
Leader.” He was a director of Australian
United Press and of radio stations at Tamworth
and Gunnedah. Before becoming interested
in country newspapers he was for 20 years in
the N.S.W. Lands Department.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
John Amadio received a fine ovation
from the big audience when he finished
the Mozart Flute Concerto with the Sym-
phony Orchestra at the Town Hall. This
is his first appearance since he arrived
in Australia from England. Charles
Moses and Ramsay Pennicuick, Dr. and
Mrs. A. E. Alcock, Dr, and Mrs. lan
Wood, Mrs. W. A. Watt, Joaa Devine
and Mesdames Alan Michaelis and Tom
Farrington were among the night’s music-
lovers noted.
Well-known singer Sylvia Fisher, who
leaves for England after giving farewell
recitals here on October 14 and in Sydney
on October 25, was hostess to presswomen
at Menzies recently. Acting on the advice
of Dr. Boyd NCel, Sylvia is taking her
recently-bought piano with her, there
being a shortage of pianos in England.
And she is lucky to have a flat in Chelsea
awaiting her arrival there. This is the
young soprano’s first trip abroad, and she
hopes to go to Paris and Vienna. Sylvia
wore a black ensemble for the party, % and
her upturned black felt hat was trimmed
with aigrette pom-poms. With her was
her accompanist, Valda Johnston, in navy-
blue frock with silver thread work on the
lapels of the matching jacket.
The specimens shown at the Loan Ex-
hibition of Antique Silver in the Lower
Town Hall to assist Y.W.C.A. funds
cover all types, from a silver Spanish
galleon, which was presented to
Dame Nellie Melba and loaned by her
daughter Mrs. George Armstrong, to
silver spoons fashioned by craftsmen of
a bygone age. Lady Dugan performed
the opening ceremony in a dinner gown
of orchid-green crepe trimmed with
sequins in a deeper tone. President of
the committee, Louis Nelkfen, thanked
Lady Dugan on their behalf. White lilies
and lemon-laden branches were set in
silver bowls about the hall, with trails
of red-and-white camellias twined about
the balustrade. Lil Wightman’s black
trained gown was of velvet. Paddy Wil-
kinson added a cream Venetian-point lace
yoke to the bodice of her black velvet
frock. Penelope Nettlefold, who came
with Lady Dugan, wore a short black
lace jacket over her frock of chiffon and
lace.
Mrs. D. Mackinnon was in black
with a full-length silver-fox cape. Mrs.
Douglas Stephens, who was with her
medico husband, had the hem of her
black skirt appliqued in scarlet velvet.
Mrs. Gladys Hain, who organised the ex-
hibition, wore a long scarlet velvet-
tailored evening coat over her floral
gown. Daughter Mary’s book, Don’t
Look Now —her first effort —has now
been published. Lady Brookes’s gown of
soft rose-pink satin featured a knife-
pleated skirt. A lovely antique set of
cameos was worn by Mrs. H. F. Cres-
wick with her black lace frock. Mrs.
Essington Lewis was in grey satin with
a wide jewelled belt. Mrs. Jim Fitz-
gerald chose a claret-toned satin frock.
Mrs. G. Kumm, president of the National
Council of Women, was smart in wine-
toned crepe.
Most interested members of the first-
night audience at the Union Theatre
when the Ballet Guild presented a short
season were Vyvyan Holland and his
wife, for the ballet, “The Selfish Giant,”
was adapted from the fairy story by
Vyvyan’s late father, Oscar Wilde. Lady
Best, who is president of the Ballet Guild,
and Mrs v R. G. Casey, patroness, were
there. So was Lady Clapp, her flame-red
gown worn under a fur wrap ; she was
accompanied by her daughter, Mrs. Geof-
frey Smith. Mrs. Des Connor, who set
off her black tailored coat with a lime-
green flower-trimmed hat, was with her
mother, Mrs. H. A. Youlden, and Mrs.
G. Watson, the latter wearing a short
mink coat over her black frock, and a
cyclamen-toned flower hat. Mrs. F. R.
Coliis, whose son Max is the leading male
dancer in the Ballet Guild, 'was in black.
Shirley Black has announced her en-
gagement to Captain David Hines, of the
Dogra Regiment, Indian Army, second
son of Mr. and Mrs. P. E. Hines, of
Trentham, Staffordshire, England. Shirley,
who is the only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. P. J. Black, of Toorak, met her
fiance when he came to Australia to visit
her brother Gordon. Gordon was a
lieutenant in H.M.A.S. Perth, and he and
Captain Hines were fellow-p.-0.-w. in
Siam. Educated at the C.E.G.G.S.,
Shirley is at present working at the
Pharmacy College, and doing a part-time
Arts course at the Uni.
Shade of Shakspeare! The young
moderns received “The Merchant of
Venice,” the C.E.M.A. production at the
Princess, in their own peculiar way.
When Antonio lost his moustache, 1600
youngsters howled with mirth, while
tender love passages between Antonio
and Portia and bv-ween Lorenzo and
Jessica were greeted with the whistle
they have borrowed from Hollywood.
Shylock, when sentence of the court had
been passed upon him, left the stage with
the derision of the audience ringing in
his ears. Strangely enough they were
silent through many of the long speeches ;
but when Portia (Mary Ward) began
the Mercy speech, those of the youngsters
who knew it recited it with her. Mary
made a most beguiling Portia, and her
wardrobe revealed a number of beautiful
costumes. Particularly becoming to her
fair coloring was a flowing robe of blue
brocade with the long wing sleeves lined
with crimson brocade. The excellent pro-
duction was by David Reed in associa-
tion with Irene Webb. In the audience
were Prof, and Mrs. J. Burke ; F. Crean,
M.L.A., and Mrs. Crean ; Colin Badger,
Director of Adult Education ; the British
Council rep. in Victoria, Donald Holli-
day ; and Miss A. E. Knowles, who rep-
resented the Minister for Education.
Pictured here is Linda Parker, a pretty,
slim Melbourne girl, with vivid blue eyes.
Linda went abroad to study the piano,
but returned home a singer. Tomorrow
night Linda will give a recital at the
Assembly Hall, her accompanist being
Raymond Lambert. Linda came to Aus-
tralia under contract to the A.B.C. and
has already completed five of her six
broadcasts. She goes to England early in
November to fulfil engagements, but be-
fore she leaves' the singer will give a
concert in her little home town of Kong-
wak, the shire secretary having lent his
Bechstein grand for the occasion.
At the dance given by Mr. and Mrs
F. P. Selleck for daughter Barbara’s
21st birthday celebration Mrs. Selleck
chose a dinner gown of blue-and-silver
lame. Barbara pinned a diamond brooch,
the gift of her parents, in her ice-blue
satin gown, which featured the new
padded hipline and off-the-shoulder neck-
line. Among the young dancers were
Shirley Watts, in burgundy taffetas, and
wearing a diamond and sapphire engage-
ment ring recently given her by John
Cox, who partnered her. Joan Hume,
who was also sporting a sapphire and
diamond ring, came with her fiance Max
Mitchell. Betty Selleck, of Barham
(N.S.W.), Mary Linton, of Perth, and
Anne Ogilvie—all of them Barbara’s
cousins—were there. With Margaret
Campbell, wearing a white-and-navy-
patterned linen dinner frock, was her
twin-brother David.
In Alan Moore’s exhibition at
George’s Gallery, opened by F. R.
Lee, are some pictures of Belsen
concentration camp. These were painted
from the original sketches made in the
camp during the first few days of British
occupation. Other pictures are of odd
bits of Melbourne streets ; some gay and
colorful, others painted in the gloom of
a winter’s day. Among the visitors on
opening day were Sydney visitor Mrs.
Gregory Blaxland in black suit and
small white hat with large black chenille
dots trimming the white veil. Mrs.
Douglas Stephens wore a large black
velvet hat with her black Persian-lamb
coat. Mrs. Alan Moore’s wide-brimmed
natural-straw hat banded with black
velvet ribbon was worn with a black-
tailored coat. Mrs. Daryl Lindsay was
also in black, her small white hat banded
in crimson-velvet ribbon.
From Sydney
World Chief Guide, Lady Baden-
Powell, is just starting out on her .tour
of this State. The travels begin on Friday
next with a visit to Newcastle surrounded
with mayoral and Royal Empire Society’s
receptions. They end on Wednesday,
November 5, at Albury. Then Lady 8.-P.
leaves for Melbourne on her way to
Tasmania, where doubtless her tour will
comprise the same guide rallies, addresses
and mayoral receptions. It is a formid-
able programme that leaves very little
time for leisure.
In Sydney next Thursday there will be
an early-afternoon reception at the Pick-
wick Club for Lady Baden-Powell. This
has been arranged by the Girl Guides’
Association. At five o’clock on the same
day the Lady Mayoress holds reception
in the visitor’s honor at the Town Hall.
On Sunday night the Town Hall will
blaze with banners and be thronged with
Girl Guides, Brownies and Rangers.
Reason, “A Guide’s Own,” when Lady
Baden-Powell will give the address.
Breeze, blue skies, bright waters and
flights of yachts all freshly laundered made
Crisp prologue last • Saturday to the
R.S.Y.S. 1947 season. The clubhouse lawns
were emerald patterned with color from
summer frocks and lightweight coats worn
by women guests, and bordered with
flowers that all looked newly opened for
the day. Altogether there were 450
guests, none of them smarter than Mrs.
Don Taylor, who spent the early part of
the afternoon being greeted by friends.
Another well-known clubite dressed cor-
rectly for the occasion was Mr. Edward
Hungerford. Club secretary, J. D. Wil-
kinson, complete with yachting cap, was
trying to persuade shipping man H. J.
Brady to nominate him as skipper for
one of the new Shaw Savill liners,
Mrs. Brady’s jade-blue silk frock was
topped by a black felt hat that had won
honorable mention from Pierre Balmain.
Its wide and stitched brim was upswept
from the forehead. Another hat to be
remembered was worn by Mrs. Hamilton
Kirkland. The guest of honor, Admiral
Farncomb, and his wife arrived with Bob,
a handsome bulldog. But be the dog
never so handsome the Girl in the Flat
Opposite says she still likes to know
whether she is going to a garden party
or a dog show. The Squadron’s Rear-
Commodore Darcy Shelley and Mrs.
Shelley welcomed the importants.
Knight Leighton Bracegirdle and his
lady were there. Mrs. Wilkinson brought
a group of Kirribilli’s pretty girls, her
two daughters among them. From the
Prince Edward Yacht Club came Dr. T.
M. Furber and Mrs. Furber. Eye man
Dr. Gregory Roberts and Admiral
Feakes talked of the writing of
books. And it was a bitter thought
for a mere writer that whereas
an Admiral and a doctor might easily
publish a book that would be a best-
seller, a writer might starve in the gutter
before bagging a job as an Admiral or
being asked even as a stopgap to do a
neat little bit of eye surgery.
Good looks, charm and ability com-
bine to make Sheila Collett the ideal
secretary to the Governor’s lady, Mrs.
John Northcott. Sheila has been chosen
by Marjorie Northcott, the Governor’s
elder daughter, as one of the bridesmaids
at her wedding in November. Norton
Trevaire photograph of Sheila.
From the sherry to the spaghetti there
wasn’t a yawn in last Friday’s party to
George Formby and Mrs. Formby. And
looking at Mrs. Formby you don’t
wonder that her husband likes racing.
He knows how to pick a winner. She’s a
nice 'creature and she wore a mink or
maybe a sable coat over a black after-
noon frock boldly arabesqued in white.
Her small hat was mostly two glorious
plumes that drooped one to the left, one
to the right above her forehead. Her
jewellery was not of the costume variety
and her compact had been given her by
the King. . There’s a note of warm eager-
ness in her voice when she speaks to
you, and altogether you feel you and she
could be real “chooms.” There were
columnists, cameramen, film, radio and
stage celebrities at this “do.” George
was entirely ringed about by fans through-
out. Asked what there was about
Lancashire that brought forth famous
comedians, George replied thoughtfully
.that Yorkshire produced them, too.
Asked why the North produced more
comedians than the South, he said softly,
“Up North we’re dafter.” George, let
it be noted, is that rare thing a careful
listener.
Miss Bowan, the star of “Stardust,”
was there, wrapped in luxury furs
and orchids and a warm smile, too.
There was a Mr. Mclntyre whom every-
body knew and he said his name was
“Hercules.” It could have been. He’s
about 7ft. tall and looks very, very
strong. Norman Rydge, of Rank’s
theatres, made a speech, David Martin
made one, George made one. The ser-
vice at the Australia has never been
better. Among the guests, radio man
Terry Howard and “Mirror’s” “Man
About Town” O’Carroll looked a close
tie for the popularity prize.
Before midday on private-view day,
the Royal Art Society had sold over £l4OO
of paintings. The show has a gentle
loveliness. Trees and flowers, the glit-
tering and restless sea and portraits that
really look like the sitter, line the two
galleries of the Education Department.
There’s a portrait of Will Ashton that
gives him an Imperial Roman 100k —
makes you a bit glad you aren’t a
Christian slave and that the nearest lions
are at the zoo. Percy Lindsay and son
Peter were both at the private view.
President Erik Langker, Hanke, Lance
Solomon and Salvana were others stroll-
ing about. The Henry Braddon lady was
a caller. Pretty Mrs. Dick Osborne and
Mrs. Osborne senior were with Douglas
Pratt, and Estelle Andrews, smiling and
capable, kept the door. On Saturday the
show was opened by Minister for Edu-
cation Heffron.
A guest of honor at the Society of
Women Writers was Mrs. Ivy Moore,
who has just received the Free French
War Service Medal for Voluntary Work
in aid of the liberation of France. Also
guests of honor were Mr. P. Martin,
French Consul, and Mrs. Martin.
It was a case of time and the Addisons
on a day last week, and each time the
gong rang Viscount and Lady Addison
had to rush off to another party. To
begin with the British Secretary of State
for Commonwealth Relations and his
wife were given a mid-morning reception
at the Town Hall by Sydney’s Lord
Mayor and Mrs. Bartley. At least that
was the schedule. But the Lord Mayor
was flying to England on a Food for
Britain mission and his aircraft was
stretching its pinions dhger for flight, so
he just had time for a friendly greeting
in his rooms before the reception.' How-
ever, as is the way of things, the plane
did not take off till late afternoon. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bartley, and Aider-
man S. Crick, deputising for the Lord
Mayor, received the guests.
No sooner were the Town Hall
elevenses downed than the Addisons were
whirled around to the Wentworth. Here
the Royal Empire Society tendered the
right brand of lunch and speeches to
their guests. After lunch came the
National Council of Women’s party in
Tally Addison’s honor. The guest
told yet again the story of the
needy British housewife —fats and sweets,
fats and sweets! They are so plentiful
with us. Let every woman who can
send an individual parcel. Community
parcels are all right, but when a woman’s
prize is one tin of jam or a packet
of jelly crystals (as was Lady Addison’s)
no matter how pleased the receiver is, the
prize won’t go very far, will it?
There was still another “do” for
them. This was a late-afternoon cocktail
party, and a really super one, given by
British Trade Commissioner J. R. Adams
and his wife, in their Mosman home. A
guest list of 250 included U.K.’s High
Commissioner Williams, his wife and
daughter Ivy.
Packed house again for the Sydney
Symphony orchestral concert last Thurs-
day. Principal attraction (apart from the
music) was Eugene Goossens wooing and
suing the first violins, being encouraging
but firm with the second fiddles, and just
letting the traffic roar through when it
came to the heavy cavalry. Raymond
Lambert was the soloist in the d’lndy
Symphony, and made the piano part a
soft and glittering thread in the whole
bright pattern.
During the interval two women dis-
cussed Mr. Goossens’s tailorings—were
they fashioned in America or were they
from London? Decision was that any-
way they set off the conductor’s slim-
ness. In the foyer Mrs. Hope Gibson,
black-frocked and fur-caped, and her
husband commented on the sea of un-
known faces. Prof. Fawsitt and his
music-loving wife were in the audience.
Mrs. Persia Porter was with Mrs, Haas,
just a year from Cincinnati, whose
orchestra Eugene conducted for 15 years.
She confessed that going to Goossens’s
concerts was a confirmed habit. Being
congratulated on her recovery was Miss
Jobson. She was with Mrs. Burgess
and Miss Wilson and told of her brand-
new home at Pymble, named Hopewood,
of course, in memory of happy days at
her former Darling Point school.


THE FAVOURITE'S
AT PRETTY SHORT
ODD'S"
f'ITS
BLACK « WHITE'S
THE FAVOURITE
THAT IT'S SHORT
TOO."
m
r S SI |
ft
V
' S-
mj
m".
%
By Appointment
to H.M. King George; Yl
S 3
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd,
<6
BIACK&WHIT
SCOTCH WHISKY
£
iomake
ihefr/itfore
secure
AW
A sure way
to provide
security for
your depend-
ants is by
taking out a
suitable life assurance
policy—do so to-day and
fulfil yet another of your
L family responsibilities.
See the
EQUITABLE PROBATE
6 GfNEBAL INSUBANCE u CO. LTD,
//*ctfo/ftce37/ m S73 faee/rSt y /trisfiane
WIHGELLO HOUSE. ANCEL PLACE. SYDNEY
_COILINS HOUSE. COILIHS ST. MELBOURNE
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
m-
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
* Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£• £, £> £> £•
1937.240,028 12,000 18J p.c.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Bonus scrip issued, £97,840 .. .. 393,644
1938.261,408 12,000 174 p.c.=188,347 61,061 454,705
1939.274,704 12,000 18* „ 201,800 60,904 515,609
1940.278,047 12,000 17* „ „ 209,871 56,176 571,785
1941.230,182 12,000 17* „„ 226,015 563,952
1942.241,610 12,000 12* „ „ 151,440 68,170 63,2,122
A.R.P. provision, £17,600.. .. .. 614,522
1943.175,569 12,000 10 p.e.=129,152 34,417 648,939
1944.174,428 12,000 10 „ „ 129,152 33,276 682,215
1945.196,866 12,000 10 „ „ 129,152 55,714 737,929
1946.227,520 12,000 12 „ „ 154,982 60,588 798,467
1947.227,271 12,000 12 „ „ 154,982 60,289 858,756
Popularity of the scrip in this big
variety chain-store organisation—it is the
oldest and largest of its kind in the
Commonwealth—rests upon a reputation
for competence and fair dealing, combined
with high earning capacity, in good times
and bad, and upon prospects of continued
expansion of the undertaking. The stores,
scattered throughout all States in the
Commonwealth, totalled 85 at end June
last, five being added during the year—
two each in N.S.W. and W.A. and one
in Vic.—and there were 3700 names on
the payroll. The £1,441,515 of paid
capital is in 150,000 A 8 p.c. cum, prefs.
and 1,291,515 ords., all f.-p. to £1 each.
Features of trading technique are the
handling of quick-moving, medium-priced
goods for cash, enabling most lines to be
cleared, the bill paid and profit pocketed
all within the time ordinarily allowed for
trade credit. At the same time risk of
loss from price fluctuations is reduced,
and small personal service—the shops are
a specialised development of the bazaar-
type of trading-helps to keep overhead
down. Research and buying departments
are constantly on the watch for new and
other lines with a high general appeal.
Also, large-scale centralised purchases
help to keep both buying and selling
prices at relatively low levels.
Main factors determining the level of
profits are (1) turnover, (2) gross margins
and (3) costs. Last term turnover in-
creased, thanks to a better flow of goods
from both overseas (mainly crockery and
hardware) and local sources, thus cushion-
ing the bump from the rise in costs, due
mainly to wage lifts —there was a 21 p.c.
increase in the pay-roll total. So there
was little change in net earnings (£(227,271,
down £249). That was after allowing an
unspecified amount for taxation and
£98,877 (up £8014) for depreciation of
leaseholds and plant, etc., but includes
£30,178 (up £4630) added to freehold
depreciation reserve, making it £330,176.
The £227,271 of profit covered pref.
requirements (£12,000) and 16.6 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with 16.7, 14.3
and 12.5 p.c. for the three preceding years
and 24.4 p.c. in 1939. The div. was kept
at 12 p.c., making average distribution
over the last six years 11.1 p.c., compared
with an average of 18 p.c. for the pre-
ceding quinquennium. However, owing
to the altered conditions of today, it is
doubtful whether better than 12 p.c. need
be expected at present.
The re-building and re-modelling of a
number of the co.’s existing stores, in-
cluding the ones at Brisbane and Perth,
is held up on account of building priorities
and the labor question. Sites for 15 new
stores have been secured, of which five
are freehold (N.S.W. two, W.A. two and
Vic, one) and the other 10 leasehold
(Vic. five, W.A. two, S.A. two and N.S.W.
one). Also negotiations for acquisition of
15 more sites are in progress, and others
are under consideration. Since the close of
accounts, two new stores have been opened
in W.A. (Boulder and Geraldton) and the
basement of the Liverpool-street, Sydney,
shop, closed during the war, has been re-
opened. And it is hoped that another two
shops will start trading before the end of
1947, making total links in the chain 89.
No hint is given as to how much the
whole programme is likely to run into ;
but shareholders will be asked to assist.
A year or so ago the board sought
authority to make a new share issue—
nature, amount and terms not disclosed
—but the authorities have not yet seen
fit to grant the request. The market has
heavily discounted its prospects. The
ords. at 82s. 6d. (955. in March) give an
immediate return of 2.9 p.c. on a 12
p.c. div, basis. A one-for-five new ord.
issue at a premium of, say, 100 p.c. would
lift the yield to 3.1 p.c. The 8 p.c. prefs.
at 40s. 6d. return 3.9 p.c. Including the
freehold reserve, net tangible cover is
£l5 6s. Bd. prefs, and 335. 3d. ords.
The financial position improved;
1939. 1941. 1946. 1947.
Capital— £ £ £ £
Ord. . . 1,094,528 1,291,515 1,291,515 1,291,515
Pref. .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft . . 161,273 229,150
Creditors . . 116,565 139,495 176,379 217,566
Mortgages, etc. 197,000 182,000 282,631 282,654
Employees’ funds 37,585 40,566 19,282 16,644
Tax reserve.. 91,057 164,829 203,821 201,524
Freeholds . . 1,085,506 1,216,581 1,420,687 1,460,022
Leaseholds . . 252,917 294,563 159,552 141,428
Fittings, etc. 378,405 461,310 294,869 285,244
Stocks . . 532,514 854,918 884,068 1,289,814
Debtors . . 10,875 12,537 28,568 53,138
Cash, etc. .. 69,208 33,905 225,215 116,027
During the year £39,335 was added to
freeholds, £405,746 to stocks and £24,570
to debtors’ balances. To meet the outlay
the co. went to its bankers for £229,150,
added £41,187 to the amount coming to
trade creditors and drew upon cash, etc.,
for £109,188. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£511,441) was £49,703.
Peters American Delicacy (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 658,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277.'. 679,640
1938.. 113,491 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 78,005 757,645
Added depreciation res., £26,434.. 784,079
1939.. 96,812 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 61,326 845,405
Goodwill ( £25,250), freeholds, etc.,
sold to subsidiary, and £397,446
of bonus scrip issued from profit . . 870,655
Depreciation reserve disappears,
£453,423 417.232
Div. on bonus shares, £70,972 .. 346,260
1940.. 87,537 8.9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360,806
1941.. 77,306 8.9 „ „ 74,498 2,808 363,614
1942.. 70,637 8 „ 66,751 3,886 367,500
1943.. 83,825 9 „ ~ 75,095 8,730 376,230
1944.. 85,478 9 „ „ 75,095 10,383 386,613
Inner reserves disclosed, £37,850 .. 424,463
Prom tax reserve, £20,000 .. .. 444,463
1945.. 86,166 9 p.c. = 75,095 11,071 455,534
1946.. 87,076.9 „ „ 75,681 11,395 466,929
1947.. 86,591 9 „ „ 76,566 10,025 476,954
This big holding co., which keeps the
curtain drawn over the figures of its prin-
cipal offshoots, had £854,128 of capital
to feed at end June last. Of the
1,248,391 14s. # shares, 1,079,144 are f.-p.
and the balance paid to 11s. Bd. each, of
which Is. 2d. (£9872) was gathered last
term. The other 2s. 4d. (£19,745) is to
be asked for at an early date. When all
the money is in paid capital will be
£873,873, on which a 9 p.c. div. will call
for £7942 less profit than was shown last
term. And, since the position is better
than the £86,591 of profit in the table
suggests, the market considers the 9 p.c.
div. in no immediate danger. On that
basis the f.-ps. at 375. 6d. return 3.3 p.c,
and the contribs. at 335. 6d. 3.2 p.c., or
3.5 p.c. when fully paid.
Continued expansion of subsidiary
activities and further extension of in-
terests are the features of the latest
accounts:
1940. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital .. £834,306 £844,255 £854,128
Creditors* 57,736 11,573 9,085
Plant .. .. 117,831
Shares in subsidiaries 783,046 1,166,000 1,217,065
Shares other cos., etc. 97,337 90,811 125,308
Debtors .. .. 165,701 1,676 1,380
Cash and bonds .. 126,180 102,261 34,845
* Includes provision for taxation.
During the year £85,562 was added to
the book value of holdings in the eight
subsidiary and associated cos., etc., cash
and bonds being drawn upon for £67,416
net for the purpose. The additions to
shareholdings represent purchase j of a
substantial, but unstated, share interest in
Foley Bros. Pty. (Sydney) and Foley
Bros. (London), Ltd., payment of a call
on contribs. in Peters (W.A.), and sub-
scription of a further £15,000, making
£25,000 in all, to Peters (S.A.).
Backbone of group earnings is Peters
Ice Cream Pty. (Sydney), which took oyer
the parent’s ice-cream business, including
premises and plant, in 1939, and provided
the parent’s one-for-one bonus scrip issue
of the following year. It has a paid capi-
tal of £1,000,000, all held by the parent.
Last term sales were a record, and after
allowing for “adequate” depreciation and
for taxation on a “higher level,” net
earnings are reported “satisfactory.” And
the recent cut of 15 p.c. in sales tax on
ice cream should help turnover during the
current term, when costs will be bumped
up by the 40-hour week and other in-
flationary factors.
Peters Creamery Pty., whose £150,000
of capital is held by the parent, also
earned “satisfactory” profits. This off-
shoot, whose factory is at Taree (N.S.W.),
was formed about nine years ago to
supply the other co. with cream. It has
grown info one of the leading milk con-
denseries in the Commonwealth, and
further additions are now being made to
premises and plant.
Peters (Vic.), Peters (W.A.) and Peters
Arctic (Q.) are three prosperous and
financially well-ribbed associates. The
Victorian co. paid 15 p.c. for the year to
June 30 last. It has a paid capital of
£195,236, of which £74,700, or there-
abouts, is held by the parent. The Wes-
tralian co. continued to pay 9 p.c., and the
parent owns £20,000 or more of its
£150,328 of paid capital. The Queens-
land co., in which the parent holds
£82,586 of the £180,086 of paid capital, is
a steady 10 p.c. concern.
A'recent offshoot, Peters (S.A.) Pty.,
whose £25,000 of capital has been put
up by the parent, bought a property in
Adelaide, but has been unable to com-
mence trading because of delays in con-
struction and delivery of plant.
Purchase of an interest in the old-
established dairy-produce business of
Foley Bros, Pty. (Sydney) and Foley
Bros. (London), Ltd., will make market-
ing as well as production of dairy pro-
duce a family matter. Appearances are
that the deal ran into over £34,000, and
that the two Foley cos., about whose earn-
ings the board is tight-lipped, had not
paid a div. before the close of Peters
accounts'.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re— Re-
June, Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
1937.. 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 15,722 413,215
Tax provision written back, £7368 .. 420,583
1938.. 97,101 12* p.c. = 84,233 12,868 433,451
1939.. 98,340 12* „ ~ 84,233 14,107 447,558
1940.. 96,705 12* „ ~84,233 12,472 460,030
1941.. 98,636 12$ „ ~84,233 14,403 474,433
1942.. 94,273 12* „ ~ 84,233 10,040 484,473
1943.. 66,350 7.8,, ~ 52,645 13,705 498,178
From doubtful debts reserve, £2500 .. 500,678
1944.. 66,186 7.8 p.c.= 52,645 13,541 514,219
1945.. 65,050 7.8 „ ~ 52,645 12,405 526,624
1946.. 66,473 10 „ „ 67,386 525,711
1947.. 67,130 10 „ „ 67,386 525,455
Better was expected. In the market the
price of the f.-p. 16s. shares rose from
the official ceiling of 41s, at end 1946 to
455. 6d. at end July last. The figure fell
to 435. following publication of accounts,
which disclosed an improvement of only
£657 in net earnings and maintenance of
the div. at 10 p.c., which called for £256
more than the profit claimed. At 455. 6d.,
the price last week-end, the return is 3.5
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Kandos (paid capital £673,862) is
financially an investment concern, being
an equal partner with Australian Cement
(paid capital £760,433) in Australian
Portland Cement Pty. (paid capital
£2,000,000). The operating proprietary’s
two plants have a combined capacity of
some 500,000 tons cement p.a.—the one
at Kandos (N.S.W.) 200,000 tons and the
other at Fyansford (Vic.) 300,000 tons.
As soon as circumstances permit a fourth
unit is to be installed at Fyansford, lifting
capacity there to 375,000 tons p.a., which
is well in advance of probable demand.
Further modernisation of the Kandos
works is also planned.
Shareholders in the holding cos. will not
be asked to assist. Apart from its holding
in the operating concern, over whose


Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
IS » * v
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £51,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
SHEEP
m
THEIR BREEDING
MAINTENANCE &
TRAINING
ML
Revised edition of a
book on animal breed-
ing: dealing: specifically with
Sheep Dogs. Genetics, Planned
Breeding, technique of Mating, Pregnancy
and Lactation, Ante-Natal treatment. Manage-
ment at Birth, Weaning and the common ail-
ments of the dog. Perhaps the best guide on
the subject of training and management occu-
pies the second section. Dr. Kelley’s wide
experience as a breeder and trainer of Sheep
Dogs, together with the help of best-known
trainers, have made this part of great practical
value to pastoralists and all interested in
Sheep Dogs and domestic
animals. 210 pages,
simply written and pro-
fusely illustrated.
JUST .
PUBLISHED I
By R. B. Kelley , D.V.Sc.,
Animal Geneticist, Council
for Scientific and Industrial
Research; Past President of
N.S.W. Working Sheep Dog
Society.
ORDER FORM.
| ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
I Please send me Kelley’s “SHEEP
J Price 12/6 (post. 4d.). (a) For which
J payment, (b) Charge to my account.
; KA ME
j Axja^lvT' •
DOGS.”
I enclose
Techß.l I
. .J
Position Wanted.
Englishman, 36 years of age, seeks position
in Sydney or Melbourne. Twenty years’ ex-
perience in carpet trade, wholesale and retail.
Wife, schoolteacher. Son and daughter, aged
seven and five years. Will gladly accept any
position offering prospect of advancement in
carpet or associated trades. Box 128, Strand
House, London, W.C.2, England.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ŵ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE
w . are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. .Call for a demonstration.
nfn Iwn^ Quote for aU classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
tables magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
SSif Sd oh-Erß=°drockand all other explosives and accessories,
* Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
guthridge pty. limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method ol
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and. improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity. _____
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
barrere DISTRIBUTION CO.
CDent. 2481 248 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
BRANDALERA
m
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRAHDAUER 4 CO. LTDi, BIRMINGHAM, ENC.
PENS
raiiiiiffliiiiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiii
THE CONVENIENCE
OF THE PUBLIC
The first public announcement by
this Bank, made on September 8, 1834,
expressed its intention “to institute an
additional Discount Bank in Sydney
and, with a view of affording to the
Community at large greater facility in
the transaction of money matters, to
discount at least three times a week.”
“Great inconvenience,” it said, “is at
present felt from the existing Banks
confining their Discounts to one day
a week.”
Thus, early in its life, this Bank put
its customers’ interests in first place. It
does the same to-day.
In its principal offices in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane, and in over 300
Branches throughout the Commonwealth,
this Bank serves the public in every phase
of banking .
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
Of SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamdted
IK BANK Of VICTORIA HD.
fieures the curtain is kept drawn,
Kandos’s on ty other asset at June 30 last
was £241,858 in cash and Government
securities. Including provision for taxa-
tion, there was £BB4B coming to outsiders.
There was a small increase in pro-
duction last term; and demand con-
tinued to run ahead of output. Costs
continued to rise, and there are further
substantial increases in prospect, especi-
ally in N. S. Wales, where the Mc-
Girr Government’s clumsy introduction
of the 40-hour week on top of wage lifts
has bumped up the price of raw
materials, freights and everything else.
As for coal, Kandos is fortunate in
having its own mine alongside the works.
Labor and transport are the bottlenecks
at the moment. An additional 220 houses
in the Kandos area would enable the co.
to get enough labor to step up production
by 25 p.c., the chairman says. It would
also enable the neighboring Standard
Portland Co. to reopen its works and
turn out about 100,000 tons of cement
annually. . .
The outlook on the demand side is one
of growing pressure. The heavier con-
sumers of cement—public works, includ-
ing road construction, etc., and factory,
office and flat building—are not at the
head of the list of building priorities. Until
the slack in home-building is taken up,
there is little prospect of large-scale re-
sumption of other forms of building and
construction. How far ?uch an expansion
will eventually benefit investors depends
largely upon movements in prices and
costs. Selling price of cement is con-
trolled by official edict.
Blue Spec Gold Mines, N.L., opera-
ting about 18 miles north of Nullagine
on the Pilbara field (W.A.), is in difficulty
again. A report by Harold V. Rowe. of
Bewick Moreing, the co \ s JL nt ; s
managers, shows that devel p
“very much” behind the mill,
position, especially for :
Present ore reserves are estimated at
approximately 15,000 short tons, ave g
ing 14.1dwt. gold and 2.1 p.c.- antimony,
or about a year’s work for the mi. »
ore is being drawn from only two slopes
above No. 2 level, making it difficuh to
control mill grade for both
antimony. The loss on recent production
of 63460 z. gold and 184 tons antimony
was £29,008. This calls for a cut of
over 26 p.c. in costs, which have been
bumped up by the burden of transport,
including a 400-mile road haul
Meekatharra. The only policy, says the
report, is to cease milling and conce -
trate on development until a monthly
throughput of at least 1200 tons can be
maintained. With this throughput
recovery of 12.4dwt. gold and yie
54 tons of 45 p.c. antimony concentrates
gross monthly earnings would be £983/,
taking gold at £lO 15s. 3d. an ounce an
antimony at 15s. a unit. Mining, treat-
ment and realisation costs are estimate
at £7 ss. a ton, equal to £B7OO a month,
and development at £lOOO, thus leaving a
monthly profit of £132. It is expected
that a saving of £6OO a month can be
made in transport charges by using the
Marble Bar-Port Hedland route, thus
lifting the profit to £732 a month. But
this means purchase of a five-ton Diesel
truck arid installation of oil storage
tanks; and costs have climbed since the
estimates were made. On the other hand
the co. has a strong case for revision or
the fixed Australian price of £165 a ton
for antimony metal as against £3OO in
the world market. However, to put the
mine in first-class order additions to
power, winding and other equipment are
needed. Altogether the outlook for the
co. is not bright; much will depend upon
the quantity and grade of ore disclosed
by development.
* * * *
“Yow”; First post-war parcel of ore
from Talisman goldmine, closed down
during war, was carted 16 miles to Cairns
and then railed to Chartes Towers (Q.)
for crushing at Venus State battery. Sweet-
ened with some rich specimen stuff taken
from a Min. heavily-veined quartz seam
on the 120 ft. drive, this 30-ton lot is
expected to crush well —it will need to to
pay transport, handling and crushing
charges. Worked by a syndicate of four,
including former Towers publican Ben
Bloom and a Spaniard named Bias Ganza,
the Talisman has been sunk on to depth
of 300 ft. Pre-war crushings averaged
around the two-ounce mark.
¥’♦ * *
Union officials estimate that suspension
of the Australian gold tax will mean
approximately 4s. a week extra in the
pay envelopes of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile mine workers, and an aggregate
addition of £32,000 a year to the em-
ployers’ wages bill. Before the tax was
removed the industry allowance was paid
on the gold price of £9 17s. received by
the producers; now the figure has shot
up to £lO 15s. 3d.
*** ( *
From London: Support for Australian
gold shares has strengthened, following
the Chifley Government’s removal of the
gold tax. Another factor influencing the
rise is expectation of an early lift in the
price of the yellow metal. Business, how-
ever, is limited, and nothing like pre-war
volume.
* * * *
There is no likelihood of any immediate
action being taken in Ottawa to sub-
sidise gold production as a means of
correcting Canada’s adverse dollar
balance with U.S., a Montreal journal
says. A few weeks back the question
was being widely discussed there. There
is little prospect of the Commonwealth
Government subsidising Australian gold
production, either.
* * * *
“Mining World and Engineering
Record,” a London journal of long
standing and wide circulation, has pub-
lished a book concerning mines and
mining in Westralia. Information show-
ing the financial structure of cos. operat-
ing there and the situation of various
mines is given, together with maps, his-
torical references, gold returns, compara-
tive share-price table, and recent official
statements. A foreword by Minister for
Mines Parker says the publication comes
at an opportune time —the information
given should be helpful to the investor.


✓
/
m
m
Wi
HI
m
m
V
m.
WITH
ATIMIiC motor flu
- (JURE PARAFFIN BASJU
ii Otways on its Meta
M 02.47
Listen to the ATLANTIC SHOW, starring 808 DYER, every SATURDAY, 8 p.m. • 2UW • 3DB/LK • 4BC • and country stations
Guard your engine against
DRY START
Did you know that over 75% of engine wear occurs during those
vital first fete minutes of running? That’s because the oil has drained
from the engine parts while it has been standing. It takes inferior
oils some minutes to reach those parts again.
Don’t take chances on a “dry start.” Use Atlantic Pure Paraffin Base
Motor Oil. Its high viscosity index (ability to maintain efficient lubru
cation over a wide range of temperatures) ensures that it’s quickly around
those pistons, cylinders and bearings and stays there on the job at high
operating temperatures. Guard against needless replacements
and high upkeep bills by always lubricating
SUNDRY SHOWS
Royal Art Society Exhibition.
The Royal Art Society Exhibition at
the Education Department Gallery,
Sydney, is large, interesting and signifi-
cant of the fact that Sydney artists, with
little fanfare or esoteric publicity, are
quietly turning out good paintings. There
are no horrors —no mere exhibitionism —
and the exhibition, within its just and
understandable limits, offers a cross-
section of Sydney art, with the necessary
gradations from excellent to mildly
competent. There are two Lance Solo-
mons, a splendid Rubery Bennett, several
Percy Lindsays and two fine Balinese
studies by Roland Strasser.
“The Sea Calls,” the Rubery Bennett
picture, is a fine and poetic sea-scene in
low tones, with a stretch of softly shining
sand, human figures and a soft and deli-
cately modulated sky. The sea does not
quite live up to the high promise of the
wet sand, but the picture as a whole is
a fine image of water, sand and subdued,
yet potent, light.
The best Lance Solomon painting,
“Morning in the Bush,” was not for sale.
It is a characteristic Solomon bush paint-
ing, inasmuch as it reveals the painter’s
special faculty for viewing—and painting
—the bush from the inside, and from
the same visual level. The eucalypt sap-
lings are as perfectly traced, and the
interplay of glittering light and mysterious
shadow as subtly conveyed as ever with,
perhaps, an additional gold sparkle. But
the design is not so markedly triangular
as is usual in Solomon’s painting of this
particular type of landscape, and the
whole picture is richer —with the sur-
prising color of gum-tips. And, in this
painting, Solomon has made effective use
of both the form and color of native
grasses.
Solomon’s “The Country Lane,”
bought by the N. S. Wales Art Gallery,
is enlivened by the artist’s clear observa-
tion, but is less successful than “Morning
in the Bush.”
Percy Lindsay has a number of paint-
ings, all characteristic of his polished
technique, and the lyrical quality which
occasionally passes into a quiet richness
of expression, astonishing with his usually
small canvases. One, in particular, a
contrast of deep, smooth, green field and
a sparkling cloud, is rich, dramatic and
perfect in form.
Individual paintings by Erik Langker,
James R. Jackson—whose technically
fine “Beyond Beltrees” needs a drop of
that special richness of Percy Lindsay’s
to put it into the upper category—Robert
Johnson, Albert Sherman whose
“Peonies” is meticulous in detail but a
little hard —V. Juradowitch, Douglas
Pratt, and others are all deserving of
attention.
Garrett Kingsley’s “Danseuse” is the
best nude this artist has so far exhibited
—the quality of his nudes over the past
few years has steadily improved.
H. A. Hanke’s portrait of Lance Solo-
mon is a thoughtful piece of work, if
not properly in the grand tradition, at
least of it.
An artist whose work is peculiarly in-
teresting is Douglas Pratt. His pencil
sketches admirably catch distance, detail
and the mass, solemnity and delicacy of
gum-trees. His paintings are less suc-
cessful. They are obviously plein-air
studies, a little dark, and, in contrast to
his sketches, slightly rigid. Yet, if not
for their own sake, at least for their
contributory value, they are interesting
aspects of the Australian school of paint-
ing. On occasion the burnt effect of
light on sun-dried grass is perfectly
observed.
The N.S.W. Gallery bought five paint-
ings: Solomon’s “Country Lane,”
“Capertee Cliffs” by Robert Johnson,
“Blossoms” by Albert Sherman, “The
Wagerer, Bali” by Roland Strasser, and
“Country Scene” by Ambrose Griffin.
Brahms and Stravinsky.
Under Eugene Goossens’s baton at last
week’s concert at the Town Hall, all the
wit and inexhaustible invention which
Berlioz poured into the overture to his
“Benvenuto Cellini” were given full play
in a reading flamboyantly in keeping with
the florid, and at times turgid, recapitula-
tion of the affairs of the gay silversmith.
Not so happy was the performance of
DTndy’s “Symphony on a French
Mountain Air.” The air itself is not an
outstanding melody, and its elaboration
has little of genius in it. The playing of
the orchestra didn’t lack vigor, but the
looseness of the integration was not
helped by Raymond Lambert, whose
athleticism at the keyboard overshadowed
his interpretative powers.
The suite from the ballet “Petrouchka,”
which Stravinsky composed as a relaxa-
tion from his labors on “L’Oiseau de Feu,”
had the complete air of carnival and
the puppets, the confusion of semi-
oriental festival in all its color, the throb-
bing rhythm and the sharp, often bar-
baric, contrasts of tone. Despite the
blatant impressionism of some of the
music, there is a vital intensity about most
of it and the orchestra has caught this
quality very well.
The reading of Brahms’ Second Sym-
phony, in D Minor, Op. 73, was de-
lightful. The undercurrent of sadness
which flows through this, the most genial
of the composer’s major orchestral works,
was unmistakably present. The Andante
was instinct with a brooding intro-
spection, while the lively Scherzo melted
into the sweeping virility of the Finale,
with all sections combining with a beauti-
ful balance of tone.
* * * »
Bach’s Mass in B Minor was given a
massive performance the other evening
at the Melbourne Town Hall by the Phil-
harmonics, plus the Conservatorium
choir, plus the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra, plus Bernard Heinze. There
were over 300 voices and that is authentic
because the woman next to the present
writer counted them audibly and there
was no reason to doubt her arithmetic.
Consequently the stage was very crowded
with the Ormond Professor, bathed in
perspiration, doing a great job, though
the choruses were sometimes too exuber-
ant and sometimes not exultant enough.
Finished artistry was shown by Gunther
Hershberg, the bass singer, but Sylvia
Fisher’s soprano was hesitating in places
and Leslie Adams lacked the requisite
depth for the role of tenor. Noella Cor-
nish made a bad start but improved
rapidly and, in the Agnus Dei, reached
to great heights.
♦ * • *
Elgar’s Violin Concerto, rarely heard
in Melbourne, was the chief business of
the evening at the latest “celebrity”
concert at the Town Hall. It is a work
of great length, enormous complexity and
plenty of scope for the soloist performer,
and it wasn’t surprising that Ernest
Llewellyn played with the score before
him. Anybody could have been excused
for a lapse of memory in the hour’s
narration, but Llewellyn had few
moments of hesitation. There is a lovely
melody running through it which crops
up in endless variations and it was mani-
pulated with unfailing freshness. A fine
display of virtuosity was the final long
cadenza. Percy Code did good liaison
work as guest conductor.
* * * *
An infant prodigy at the age of eight
and still one at the age of 12, violinist
Desmond Bradley made his second
appearance at the Assembly Hall in Mel-
bourne last week after four yfcars’ retire-
ment under the tuition of Jeanne Gautier
and his father, who plays with the Sym-
phony Orchestra. There was no need to
make allowances for his first pferform-
ance, and there was less need for his
second. It would be no mean feat for a
much older virtuoso to finger and bow
his way through a Mozart sonata, the
“Little Sonata” of John B. McEwan, and
a number of titbits from the classics and
the moderns, ranging from the lovely
“Melodic” of Gluck to the “Fountains of
Arethuse” of Szyminowski. Young
Bradley’s bowing was crisp and easy, and
there were form and feeling in his Mozart.
The fireworks of De Falla were neatly
handled and there was a melodious frag-
ment by the local composer Dorian le
Gallienne for an encore.
* * *
Cronin’s “Jupiter Laughs” was pro-
duced in Brisbane by Leon Black for the
Australian Theatre Guild. Set amid test-
tubes, stethoscopes and unbelievably white
coats, there is a story with incident and
emotion and innumerable avenues
for serious thought. Well written and
realistic, the play’s success was mainly
due to fche high standard of acting and
smoothness of the production. In one
of his finest performances to date, Peter
Buchanan showed his mastery of situa-
tion and dialogue as the cynical Dr. Paul
Venner. Acting honors also went to
Jo|in Francis, whose unobtrusive role of
the aged friend, Dr. Drewett, was con-
vincingly played, to Gloria Birdwood
Smith, Blair Hefferan and Coila Mc-
Cracken, and to Edna Fenner for her de-
lightful study of Martha Foster. A good
play well chosen and produced,
* * * *
Brisbane saw a daughter of the original
“Girl Friend” as introduced by Alan
Chapman for J. C. Williamson’s —maybe
it was a granddaughter—but she was
new, bright and amusing and the produc-
tion on the whole was much better than
the preceding “No, No, Nanette.” Pat
Keating brought the youthful freshness
and histrionic ability too often lacking in
musicomedy leads.- The brunt of comedy
fell on the capable shoulders of Charles
Norman, ably assisted by Fred Murray
and Betty Sparkes. Once again the frock-
ing was excellent. The chorus appeared
better rehearsed than it was for “Nanette,”
and Albert Chappelle, Lily Moore and
Miriam Lester added sparkle to the large
cast.
* * * *
Brisbane Repertory presented four one-
act plays instead of their usual three-act
production. The acting was generally
good —of Marian Henry and Shirley
Crommelin in “Behind the Lace Cur-
tains,” all the cast in “They Refuse to Be
Resurrected,” Molly McLean, Shirley
Eutrope, Mavis Cundy and Elaine Yar-
wood in “The Foolishness of God” and
Laurie Gallagan, in “Overruled.” • All
four productions were excellent.
* * * *
Tears did appear among those who
saw the Mercury Players performance of
“French Without Tears” at Sydney Radio
Theatre, but they were the kind that
follow prolonged laughter. Guilt of the
deluge may be shared by every member
of the cast, with Brian Curtis slightly
ahead on points for his fruitless search
for the necessary 50 francs.
» * * •
The Tivoli, Adelaide’s largest theatre,
has been particularly busy. The Reper-
tory revived one of Barrie’s best, “Dear
Brutus,” a former success. It was pro-
duced by Mrs. Litchfield, and had in it
Jack Ham of the 1929 cast. The same
house was lent to the Education Depart-
ment for a rendering of “Othello,” sup-
posed to have special appeal to students
and produced by Colin Ballantyne. Un-
fortunately the tragedy, though finely
staged, struck some of the youngsters as
humorous where it should be most mov-
ing.


: ' &
i
LtW #
V “,..
patti cia
lloc,
t\^e
VM SeotttB
r\lW<
as
bet
a
\jacW
aa
\xet
ixe^
ottaA
o^°
ca°
vet sa ‘
Sll w*i**
-'•“ 4 ' ,ert v ot «
c \r 'ba^ t \saa c^
c„r
stcaV
C V ‘* „ AiO^ S
\vo^
c\o^ e 9
sW
,\oai
aa<
A^ e
s*a at
tes^
ot s
b« eS
iiota
cW' sS *
%vv
\oa
S ll
tot
land
lAi
t n«
Street
Sot" 6 '
jw
Stre^
Reg
I'll
ly)
]Vlod«
jj o n se
11 ■ ®
Mitre
0&* e
don
Lon
don
Lon
ẁ
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
The Moonee Valley meeting was up against
powerful opposition with the V.F.L. “grand
final” attracting a huge crowd, but those who
chose to back favorites had no cause for regret.
Five were successful, making 11 in all for two
successive meetings at the Valley.
Three of Saturday’s eight races were for
three-year-olds, the best contesting the mile
Moonee Valley Stakes. Chanak was a warm
favorite, with Star Port and Denhoti best
backed ’to beat him. Breasley, on Chanak,
rode a model race, always having the pace-
maker, Denhoti, safely covered. The mile
found Denhoti out and Chanak ran on to a
comfortable win from Star Port and Hororata.
Chanak, who clocked the excellent time of
1.384, looks set to give other States’ three-
year-olds visiting Melbourne for the spring rac-
ing a thorough testing. To date he has won
seven races and £7OOO in stakes. He’s a son
of the French-bred Hellespont and that first-
class mare Studio.
D. Munro made a special trip to Melbourne
to ride Royal Gem in the Quality and to form
his opinion of the Dhoti horse’s spring prospects.
Munro decided to make every post a winning-
post; unfortunately for both, so too did Sam
Martin on the favorite, Valcurl. Both horses
were under the whip as they turned into the
straight, where Royal Gem was first to give
in. Valcurl, too, had nothing left to with-
stand Don Pedro’s finishing effort. The
boomed Sydney horse Lucky Robin was last
throughout.
Owing to the cut-throat tactics of Valcurl
and Royal Gem, .the 10 furlongs of the Quality
were put behind in 2.4. By comparison,
Gloriwyn (W. A. Smith), downing Apollo and
Black Beau in the first Pascoe Handicap for
three-year-olds, took 2.1}, while Kongmeng
(J. Gilmore), winning the second leg from
Dhutia and Anthelion, clocked 2.84.
Both divisions of the Nulla Nulla Highweight
provided finishes which were a tribute to the
handicapper. In the first, four horses with
weights ranged from 10.4 fo 8.4 passed the
judge at half-head intervals. They were, in
order, Assam (R. Heather), Upheaval, Somers
and High Play. Assam showed versatility by
finishing on from the rear, instead of filling
his usual post of pacemaker. In the second
division it was again close between Felstar
(G. Bougoure), Embrolita, Constable and
Homebush.
O. R. Porter at last got a return on the high
price he lately paid for Carey, .and on the
cash done in on him at a couple of starts
since, when the Midstream horse narrowly de-
feated Forest Lad and Faunus in the Corroboree
Handicap of 13 furlongs. At that a protest
had to be survived. Favorite for the Mt.
Cotterell Steeple, First Aid gave a shocking
exhibition of jumping before coming to grief
at the eighth fence, Benarca (W. Aldridge) win-
ning it from Securities and Henwood.,
* * * ♦
Having previously scratched Set Purpose
from the Derby, connections of the Veilmond
colt would be justified in a little self-application
of the boot after seeing their repeatedly-unlucky
galloper win the 10-furlongs Mixed Stakes at
the Hawkesbury Club’s Rosehill meeting. Mak-
ing hacks of King Lear, Menelik and a fair
bunch of older horses. Set Purpose ran the
journey in 2.54, against the course record of
2.34 —at least as good a trial as anything else
seen for what looks a very open Derby.
Though it shed little light on the Derby,
the Clarendon Three-year-old (9f.) gave stewards
■a puzzler and produced a most unusual result.
There could have been a nasty fall in the
straight, where half the field were involved in
some rough and tumble scrimmaging; past the
post it was * Lysander (N. Sellwood) and
Jocular (A. Mulley) head and head, with Blue
Ensign (G. Podmore) a shade further back.
After- viewing the photograph the judge de-
clared a deadbeat, with Blue Ensign third,
whereupon G. Podmore threw in a protest
against Jocular. Protest upheld, with Blue
Ensign then replacing Jocular as the dead-
heater. Mulley was handed two months’ sus-
pension, and it’s the worst possible time of the
year to be on the outer.
Hitherto a disappointing galloper, Lysander
is a handsome full brother to Shannon and
is trained by McCarten. Curiously, Jocular
is owned by Percy Miller, most of whose horses
are also trained by McCarten, but Jocular is
in Pay ten’s hands.
A horse can, after all, do no more than
win, yet Warspite’s victory over Deep Sea and
Murray Stream in the Thompson Quality
handicap was too narrow to be reassuring
for his Epsom admirers. Deep Sea did all
the pacemaking and when tackled by War-
spite near the distance battled on every inch
of the way to the finish, where the camera
showed it as Warspite (W. Cook) by a half-
head. A five-year-old, Warspite conceded his
three-year-old opponent 91b.
For the Epsom this page will stick to Puffham
in the belief that with a 91b. advantage in the
weights he may have the edge on Columnist.
At any rate, one can be pretty confident he’ll
be up among ’em all the way and fighting on
gamely at the finish. Both Blue Legend and
Victory Lad should also be near the money if
they get a clear gap through which to carry
their big weights from the rearward position
they are likely to occupy at the home turn.
The Hawkesbury Grand Handicap of 11 fur-
longs provided little ground for Metrop. specu-
lation, being won comfortably by Buzz Off
(A. Podmore), who isn’t in the big handicap.
In the places were Avalanche and Rimfire, of
whom Avalanche might be conceded a chance
in the Metrop. with 8.3. Back in April he
won the Dangar Handicap at Randwick over
the Metrop. distance of 13 furlongs. Temer-
aire finished a dismal last in the Hawkesbury.
The Metrop. may lie between Sweet Chime
and Silver Link, who meet at a difference of
21b. in favor of Sweet Chime. Since coming
in from a spell Sweet Chime has done a rather
odd Metrop. preparation, with successive starts
at seven, six, ten and, most recently, 84 fur-
longs. Still, her ability to go 13 furlongs is
in no way sUspect, and with 8.7 she has a
handy weight. In view of his long stnr l?. r
minor placings in important handicaps, S
Link is either the unluckiest horse racing:
else just not quite good enough. In eitne
case Sweet Chime is to be preferred. Comaie
will appreciate the distance but possibly n
his impost of 9.1.
Other winners at Rosehill were Tamasha
(E. Doon) and Neinby (G. Moore), each suc-
cessful in a division of the Welter, while Lo
“And now for the main item of the evening , ladies and gents. —Chief
Hammer Toe's famous escapology act!"
Desmond (A. Mulley) and Namesake (W.
Cook) took the Novice events. The barrier
misfiring, the starter declared no-start and
called them back for another go after they a
gone a short way in the first Novice. The
start of the second division appeared, if any-
thing, rather worse, but there was no recall.
Between races at Rosehill, Shannon, with
Thompson up, gave an exhibition gallop in
which, from a flying start, he bettered the track
record of l.lli for six furlongs.
* * * *
Standing head, shoulders and the rest of his
4ft.-odd over any contemporaries, Gordon
Richards has again notched up his 200 winners
for the season in England, with time still to
pass his own record total of 259; the best for
a season in Australia was Billy Cook’s 126 in
1939-40. A sprightly youngster now rising 44,
Gordon passed Fred Archer’s aggregate record
of 2749 winners four years ago.
W ♦ H= *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Trial Stakes: Set Purpose, 1; King Lear, 2;
Express, 3. Breeders’ Plate: Phalanx, 1;
Riptide, 2; Heliofly, 3. A.J.C. Derby: Karachi,
1; Conductor, 2; Valiant Crown, 3. Epsom
Handicap: PuSham, 1; Columnist, 2; Blue
Legend, 3. Colin Stephen Stakes: Shannon,
1; Good Idea, 2; Flying Duke, 3. Squatters’
Handicap: Open Air, 1; Loyal March, 2;
Buzz Off, 3. Kensington Handicap: Thrums,
1; Havoc, 2; Belle Fille, 3. Metropolitan:
Sweet Chime, 1; Silver Link, 2; Cordale, 3.
Gimcrack Stakes: So Sweet, 1; Silverfel, 2;
Revenir, 3.
* * * *
Only a Health Department limit
stopped M.C.G. from holding a record
football crowd on Saturday, when
85,793 -people —some at the gates at 7 a.m.
—paid £9141 19s. to see Carlton down
Essendon by a point for the V.F.L.
premiership. Stafford, a Carlton half-
forward, kicked the winning goal a few
seconds before the final bell, the Blues
winning 13.8-11.19. As they deserved to
do with Essendon’s poor booting for goal
—no V.F.L. top team should kick 11.19
on a comparatively mild day. The V.F.L.
had a grand season; big crowds and big
money all the way.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby Union tourists
crashed heavily at Cardiff, losing the
game 11-3 and a few players as well.
Cardiff is a tough lot; on the home
ground it has been the downfall of
famous touring teams. Indications are
that the Wallabies have been overboomed,
that the selectors erred, and that the
forwards, particularly, are not up to inter-
national standards. Sydney’s Eastern
Suburbs can fairly claim a superior pack,
and Furness is better than either of the
two hookers preferred to him.
* * * *
G. O. Allen’s appointment to captain
M.C.C. v. West Indies adds to his notable
record. He was the first Australian-born
cricketer to captain England in Australia
(1936-7); and had previously captained
England v. All India (1936)..
* * * *
Though Norman von Nida won the
Harry Vardon trophy in England for the
pro. with the best average stroke-score
in major contests—he had 52 rounds for
an average of 71| strokes, compared with
the average of 73.16 which won the trophy
for Bobby Locke last year —the Von
couldn’t survive the first round in the
“News of the World” £2500 tournament.
He went down to Henry Cotton, 4 and
2, being off his game from the start.
* * * *
At his first attempt after a few months’
let-up young Sydney sprinter John Tre-
loar clocked even time for 100yds,, and
was easing up. This season he should go
close to the world record of 9.4 sec. for
the hundred ; he recorded 9.6 sec. eight
times last season.
Danny Simmons started like a
winner against Jackie Wilson (9.4£) at
Leichhardt, and in the third round a right
dropped Wilson to the canvas. But that
was the beginning of the end for Danny,
who thereafter got a worse and worse
leathering, ending in the seventh with
Wilson winner on a t.k.o.
Taking off time from film posing and
enough of the surplus weight therein
acquired to tip the beam at 10.7 L Aus-
tralian welter champion Tommy Burns
cleaned up American Eddie Marcus
(10.5 x) per k.o, in the seventh round at
Sydney Stadium. One round —the pound-
ing third—made it a good fight. Other-
wise it was pretty even, with Marcus
going well enough for his sudden collapse
to be a surprise. There was no Patrick
cot-case about it; both parties, in good
wind, were presently chatting amiably
over the air.
* * * *
Dawson-Miller two-rounder:
All the Dawson-Miller meeting at Melbourne
Stadium amounted to was about as miserable
a bit of matchmaking as could be arranged.
With Dawson the recent destroyer of Aus-
tralian lightweight champion Patrick, the re-
sult was a foregone conclusion for mere feather-
weight Miller. On the canvas for close to the
count time after time, Miller had had more
than enough after two rounds and was unable to
come out for any more. The plain facts are
that Dawson is a good tough fighter and Aus-
tralian form has never been worse.
As miserable as the matchmaking was the
newspaper attempt to picture Dawson as a bad
sport for insisting on some payment if the
fight was broadcast or newsreeled. Why
shouldn’t Dawson insist on a cut? Why
should broadcasting and movie people take
full profits from his risks? Fred Henneberry
used to take that stand; quite rightly.
* * * *
Jack Read views Joe;
Many Australian boxing customers think Joe
Wallis the world’s greatest referee, and as Wallis
(real name Newton) has been third man in the
ring for close on 30,000 contests, they may be
right. .
Joe is a ref. who really relishes the job—:
whether they’re hooting or applauding his ver-
dicts. He learnt the business first with the
gloves on, boxing for a year with fair success.
He began as a featherweight, and finished over
the welter limit. He’s still a bit over it.
Joe —“Ole Black Joe,” as the bleachers irreve-
rently call him, among other things— r ef creed
his first fight at Newtown Olympia Stadium in
1914. His grand total of about 30,000 decisions
seems almost impossible for one man, but he
has been officiating at Sydney Stadium since
1916 (except when that arena was closed in
World War I), and for some years he was
official ref. at four stadiums (Sydney, New-
castle, Carlton and North Sydney), where some
20 contests were decided by him every week.
Looking back, Joe regards the Young Strib-
ling v. Ambrose Palmer scrap at Sydney
stadium in 1932 as the most important con-
test handled by him; Vic Patrick v. Tommy
Burns (February 2, 1946) attracted the biggest
crowd he has officiated before; Young Dencio
v. Eugene Criqui in 1921 was the most sensa-
tional fight under his control.
Away from being third man in the Stadium
ring, Joe is first man in the Moore Park
Cricketers Arms Hotel, which he controls
as competently as he does a scrap.


MAINTAINING THE SOVEREIGN
RIGHTS OF THE PEOPLE
The Value of the Referendum
yHE Constitution of Switzer-
land provides that a Refer-
endum shall be taken if requi-
sitioned by quite a small per-
centage of the Electorate, and
there the Referendum has fre-
quently been used to decide the
people’s wish on such a variety
of questions as female suffrage,
liquor traffic. Eight-hour Day
and even where a railway is
to go.
We need such a provision in
Australia to protect the people
against temporary legislative
maj orities.
The expressed intention of
the present Federal Govern-
ment to nationalise the Banks
against the wishes of so many
of the people is evidence afresh
of the need for a Referendum
in maintaining the sovereign
rights of the people.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Limited) believes in the
preservation of the sovereignty
of the people
_____ •
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
JirstAKJ2<
w
■mmm*
.lijfkrW
LEA &
PERRINS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Inflation the Chosen Way
Labor-party politics have for a long,
long time shown a preoccupation with
“the financial system,” and party adher-
ents have made interpretations that more
experienced economists would say were
a fallacy. Another characteristic of the
Labor party has been to mix finance in
with politics. It may be that “Labor”-
socialism demands control of national
finance anyway. But Australian “Labor”
goes beyond that. It “sees” in control of
the national finances a means of absolu-
tion from most of its industrial and
political errors.
It is interested no end in politics
and its own brand of “economics,” but it
is dead scared of the realities of industry.
Thus, while Mr. Chifley avoids any show
of responsibility during nation-wide in-
dustrial disruptions and reveals indiffer-
ence and abstraction when he talks of the
need for greater production, he is always
to the fore in matters such as the nation-
alisation of banking, tax and price policy
and credit control.
It is the widely self-expressed belief of
“Labor” that Australia could have got
out of the last depression by the ex-
pedient of credit expansion. During the
depression the Labor Governments of
Australia were faced with the question
of whether they would seek salvation
through credits created by the Common-
wealth Bank, without real industrial plan-
ning, or whether they would set out to
align their wage, price and credit structure
and industrial programme with world
conditions. The Senate, the Com-
monwealth Bank board and the trading
banks opposed the inflationary schemes
put forward, of which that of Theodore
was probably the least desperate, and
“Labor” was forced to accept the
Premiers’ Plan.
Adoption of this plan, though it in-
volved some readjustment temporarily as
severe as the disease which assailed our
economy, brought order and confidence
out of chaos, and Australia emerged from
the depression a free democracy more
rapidly than any other country in the
world, not even excepting Nazi Germany,
Fascist Italy or Communist Russia, which,
of course, used totalitarian methods and
armaments production to achieve “re-
covery.”
“Labor” in Australia has put a curse
on the Premiers’ Plan ever since. The
plan placed an emphasis on the fact that
work should not be given merely for the
sake of creating a job ; that Governments,
where they undertake economic rehabili-
tation, must be capable of realistic indus-
trial planning that will bring necessary
production or development which will in
turn raise living standards, increase ex-
ports or add to the efficient production
potential or population-carrying capacity
of the country. No Government in Aus-
tralia in depression days was equipped
with such plans, so the job of rehabilita-
tion was largely left to private enterprise.
And ‘‘relief-work” had to be given, paid
for out of taxes —hence jibes about “the
dole” even now. But the cost to the
people of these taxes was no heavier than
the indirect tax of credit expansion would
have been, and there was no deception
or confusion and little inequity involved.
The Premiers’ Plan brought—in addi-
tion to confidence —reduced costs and
higher efficiency to Australia that enabled
us to export at a profit. Though there
was some unemployment right up to the
time of war’s outbreak, the country
generally was really prosperous, homes
were being rapidly provided for the
people at low cost, and there were no
shortages of food, clothing or other
essentials. The unemployed may have
been unhappy, but often their unemploy-
ment was their own fault.
“Labor” was out of Federal office from
“I’m afraid Jones will never make a shoe salesman!”
the beginning of 1932 until the end of
1941. During the recent war it used credit
expansion on an extensive scale to finance
war-time Budgets. Since the war it has
used heavy taxation and borrowings of
various kinds to maintain “full employ-
ment,” to establish social-security funds
and to enlarge the economic powers of
the Federal Government. It has used
the resources of the Commonwealth Bank
and savings banks to maintain the market
value of its loan securities.
During the period of “Labor’s” inflated
Budgets and “full employment” there has
been a steep decline, on the whole, in
industrial morale. Essential services, such
as shipping and coalmining, have been
reduced to a shadow of their former
efficiency. Output per man-hour has
fallen heavily in most Communist-con-
trolled industries. The shortage of homes
is a national tragedy, and the loss of
overseas markets, partly arising from in-
adequate coal and other production,
partly as a result of Communist dictation
of our foreign policy, is a scandal. The
economic strength and efficiency in most
of our secondary industries have been
undermined during Labor’s term of office.
Now it appears that, within the next
few years, other countries may recover
their productive capacity and working
efficiency more rapidly than Australia,
and that prices may fall overseas. Mr.
Chifley in any case fears a “recession”
here. What is he doing about it?
Obviously there is no “Premiers’ Plan”
or any other detailed plan for Mr. Chifley
and his followers. Inflation is already the
preselected way “out” of a depression so
Tar as Labor is concerned. Prophets of
10 years ago foresaw that the ghost of
nationalisation of banking had not been
laid—they saw that “Labor” would return
to its obsession again. Already the Com-
monwealth Bank board has been wiped
out and central-bank policy handed over
to the Treasury. Now the trading banks
are to be swallowed in a body. And thus
every major control over credit in the
country will pass to the Federal (Labor)
Government.
The faith that “Labor” possesses in
credit expansion, even at this stage, is
apparent from the fact that, while it has
gone so far with its banking policy, it is
almost bankrupt of ideas in the field of
industrial development. The only
national plan of any consequence to be
put forward, apart from a very vague but
grandiose £250-million defence scheme,
has been that of standardisation of rail-
way gauges. Anything less fruitful of
reproductive employment, national de-
velopment or increased living standards
it would be hard to imagine.
The “Labor” Government at Canberra,
and McGirr and Hanlon in their respec-
tive States, are in full retreat from the
lealities of greater and more efficient pro-
duction, higher living standards. They
have pledged their faith in inflation —
through Budget expansion and bank.
nationalisation—as the antidote to
economic ills and as the mainstay of
“full employment.” Mr. Chifley’s state-
ment that his reason for nationalising
the trading banks was that they failed
to co-operate with Labor Govern-
ments in 1931 has made one side of the
ancestry of his banking legislation per-
fectly clear. Communists, however, are
complicating the issue, and making the
outlook even worse for the future of
Australia than if “Labor” alone were left
to its fallacies and expedients.
The Commonwealth-wide strength in
sharemarkets last Week was partly the
result of the elimination of war-time
company tax, partly a consequence of
the high returns coming in from our ex-
ports, and partly because of the inflation
that is occurring generally in prices and
costs. The elimination of war tax is
likely to be substantial only in cases
where the rate of profit on shareholders’
funds is 10 p.c. or more —Barrier mines,
for instance, and chain stores, also Berlei,
Ltd., Angus and Robertson, Mauri Bros,
and Thomson, McDowells, David Jones,
Finney Isles and other retailers. The
inflation factor is one of the most potent
short-term reasons for a high market for
equity shares ; the long-term prospect is
big industrial activity once our political
economy stabilises itself.
* * * ♦
Although the Government has handed
back most of the. inter-State vessels to
private “control,” has permitted increases
in freights estimated to bring in a revenue
of about £2,000,000 more a year, and is
granting freight subsidies reckoned to
cost £1,000,000 this year, it still budgets
for a debit of £2,525,000 in its shipping
branch, compared with £3,773,953 in
1946-47 and £3,739,343 in 1945-46, when
freights were pegged and subsidies were
absent. The Goyernment is still running
its own line of vessels, under shipping-
company management; these Australian-
made ships, of various tonnages, in many
cases are not economical. And, in any
case, the Government has submitted to
trade-union blackmail as regards working
hours and wages costs—something that
has affected the whole shipping and
stevedoring industry regardless of the
nature of ownership.
♦ ■ * * *
Maoriland’s most powerful insurance
concern, South British Insurance Co.
(founded in Auckland in August,
1872), on its 75th anniversary had
reserves equal to five times its capital of
£1,031,640. Backlog funds are so big that
nothing but post-war uncertainty and
tough conditions in some overseas in-
surance fields stand between share-
holders and another bonus hand-
out. It’s 20 years since the last, of
£257,910, in 1927. For more than 50
years South British has been holding to
its policy of ploughing-in underwriting
surpluses to swell mounting investments
and leaning on interest sources to pay
divs. In its first half-century it swallowed
up half a dozen other concerns: three in
Australia, one in Maoriland, one in
South Africa and one in Malaya.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiS $
osuxuvajv
s. .
M
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS Ic OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
( Incorporated in England)
ad
cheque account with the idanh id
convenient to the private individual ad it id
eddentiai to the ludinedd lioude.
branch will yladiy advide you.
OF
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
ẅ
w
ŵ
BARKO
ẁ
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL,
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
A HAPPY WORLD NOW
Hou> u'dl it at
Happiness in old age consists largely in having
enough money on which to live in peace and comfort.
Any young couple in good health can arrange,
through the A.M.P. Society, that such money will be
theirs when the husband reaches retiring age or
hers, should he die before then.
The annual premium to be paid for this blessing
is much smaller than most people imagine.
Consult the nearest A.M.P. Representative or Office
and learn how YOU may win financial security,
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Principal Board:
Cecil H. Hoskins, Chairman.
Sir Frederick H. Tout, Deputy Chairman; J. Hubert Fairfax,
W. A. Mackay, Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Kowe,
Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A “Boom” in a Depression
A great volume of money income is
flowing to Australia at present, but its
purchasing or investment value, both to
the particular industries (mostly rural)
earning it and the community as a whole,
is being defeated by inadequate supplies
coming from the coalmining and manu-
facturing industries in this country and
abroad. Incomes, however large, cannot
be readily exchanged even for many
essential manufactured goods, and costs
in any case are high. Also, whoever may
be the primary receiver of the income,
much of it eventually finds its way into
the maw of the taxing and spending
authority at Canberra.
In the midst of the alarm caused
by the proposed socialisation of
the trading banks in Australia, wool
auctions are being conducted under par-
ticularly favorable conditions of sale.
Prices have advanced sharply on last
year’s figures, which were profitable to
growers as a whole, and which brought
in a record wool cheque of £92 million.
Growers now receive the entire market
price for their staple, less a levy to pro-
vide running and other expenses of the
Australian end of the “Joint Organisa-
tion” scheme. They got most of the
average of 24|d. realised last year for
greasy wool, which compares with
15.7 d. in the 1945-46 season.
Now prices have advanced further, but
they are still not excessive by comparison
with what has happened to the metal,
wheat and other raw-material markets
since the w'ar began. American buyers
are reported to be finding current prices
too high for the home market, princi-
pally because of the 34 cents duty on
every pound of wool. imported in the
grease into the U.S.A. At the prevailing
rate of exchange that duty is the equiva-
lent of the average price paid for greasy
in Australia last year- which means that
Americans pay double the open-market
price of wool in Australia, apart from
shipping charges. The United States is
reported to be considering a reduction in
its wool tariff, but the whole matter of
Empire preference is wrapped up in this
offer, which has many sides to it.
In the 1946-47 selling season Joint Or-
ganisation reduced its holdings of carry-
over wool by 1,271,000 bales, even after
buying-in 193,876 bales of the current
clip. Australian wool sold out of the
stocks totalled 773,287 bales. The grower
has already received an appraised or
reserve price for carryover wool, and the
excess received by J.O. represents a profit
to the Government shareholders control-
ling the organisation. The Common-
wealth is a major shareholder in
J.O. The accumulated wool stocks
of the organisation were 4,515,000
bales at June 30, compared with
5.786.000 bales a year earlier and
10.407.000 bales at June 30, 1945. An-
other selling season like that of 1946-47
and the stockpile of the three Dominions
will be down to the level of one season’s
Australian clip, and to less than a third
of the end-of-the war total. It has been
a great achievement, and augurs well
for the comparative stability of the price
of the staple in the future, even though
there may be a setback later in commodity
prices as a whole.
The Commonwealth’s wheat harvest
this season promises to be an exception-
ally good one, and there does not appear
to be any world glut in sight. Prices re-
main high overseas. The Government is
to pay something like ss. 2d. (f.0.r.,
bagged, ports) a bushel, plus 2s. 2d, for
wheat sold overseas, and the excess of
export returns over 9s. 6d. a bushel. This
season the export surplus is likely to be
far greater than last, which should, on
the present world price, mean a higher
average return to the grower.
Estimates put the year’s wheat harvest
at from 180 million to more than 220
million bushels. Not more than 50
million bushels should be needed for
home consumption, and as the present
export price is around 17s. a bushel, a
return from wheat as large as or larger
than from an average wool clip is indi-
cated. This means an income of unpre-
cedented proportions from wheat if
harvest forecasts are substantiated and
world prices hold.
A record wheat crop to be sold at what
look like record prices, an average wool
clip that promises to bring in the greatest
cheque of any season, and high prices for
butter, meat, rabbitskins and metals are
indicative of probably the highest export
income Australia has ever received in one
year. Ordinarily this would presage great
prosperity for the community, with
promise of a high living standard.
But for a variety of reasons this is not
likely to be. While the wheat crop is
large, and the wool dip creditable in view
of drought losses over the past few years,
dairy-produce output has shrunk, and, on
the industrial front, goods and services
being made available to the community
are quite out of keeping with the “full
employment” about which so much is
boasted politically.
Furthermore, the 40-hour week will in-
crease costs of production, property
maintenance and plant replacement in the
woolgrowing and other rural industries,
and, in any case, it is most difficult to
get ordinary necessities like linseed meal,
galvanised iron, wire, netting, etc.
Taxation, too, is falling heavily on
landmen, and a large proportion of their
present “prosperity” is being drawn off
into the Federal Budget by way of taxa-
tion. The central suction of* Common-
wealth taxation and spending continues
to create an economic willy-willy that
carries all industrial activity with it along
a hazardous path. Thus, in spite of the
apparent prosperity of landmen, their
financial and industrial initiative is still
restricted. Even where monetary pros-
perity does exist, it is difficult to rehabili-
tate or improve properties to the extent
that many owners desirfe. There is not
the production of materials and equip-
ment within the community that one
would reasonably expect in present cir-
cumstances.
Getting alternative overseas supplies,
too, is both difficult and expensive. Great
though the rise in our export values may
be, almost equally steep has been the cost
of imports. It will be interesting to see
at the end of this financial year, if our
export prices are maintained, what our
favorable trade balance amounts to, and
then to consider the question of whether
our exports have bought for us anything
like the amount of imports we need.
The balance of trade, after deducting
debt payments, etc., will represent the
addition to our overseas currency reserves
for the year. Whatever these funds
amount to at June 30 next they may still
be, to a large extent, “frozen” for all
practical purposes. And their ultimate
value to the country may depend upon
how long this “freezing” must continue,
and what the trend of import prices takes
in the “frozen” period. After all, our
money, whether held in Australia or over-
seas, is only worth what it can be ex-
changed for in the way of goods, etc.
Australia truly has a monetary and
“employment” boom in prospect, but,
principally by reason of failure on the
industrial front, we have a production de-
pression, and have had it for years. It is
an anomaly which only a “Labor”-union
Government such as we have would
allow to continue. It is dangerously
foolish in the circumstances for the
central Government to continue inflating
Budget expenditure and commitments.
Public finance was the hard problem to
solve after prices collapsed in 1929.
Dwindling supplies of bottles have fol-
lowed the halving of glass production at
New Zealand’s only glassworks, at Pen-
rose, near Auckland, as a result of short-
age of soda ash, and one of the two big
furnaces has gone cold. Demands are
heavy under M.L.’s free-medicine scheme,
which has boosted drug sales to record
levels. Milk-bottles are another headache.
Vignerons and wine merchants in M.L.
cities say they never see new bottles now.
Breweries, with big reserves, have been
guarding bottle supplies by prohibiting
export of beer unless bottles are pro-
vided, as by Fiji purchasers.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: “Tarcoola” Ted’s hunger had
been sharpened by the bitterly cold
westerly he had been battling against for
the last two hours, and at sight of the
little shanty pub his saliva glands began
to operate in anticipation of sinking his
teeth into a juicy steak. After quickly
downing a rum he mentioned his urgent
gastronomic desires to the tired-looking,
scrubby, fat man behind the bar. Going
slowly to the door leading to the back
of the shanty Bung leaned against the
door jamb and shouted “Eh, Min, we
got any steak?” A rasping female voice
answered: “There was on’y that tough
bit over that you couldn’t eat —I give it
to the dorg.” “Any chops left?” “We
ain’t ’ad chops for three days—the last
two went bad and the dorg got them,
too,” “Any tinned meat there, then?”
“We ’ad ’alf a tin o’ corned beef, but
you give it to the dorg yerself the other
day, if y’ remember.” “Well, wot about
them two rabbits I got yest’day?” “They
’ad hydatids—the dorg got them, too.”
At this point “Tarcoola” cut in. “Listen,”
he said ; “it’ll save a lot of wear an’ tear if
y’ll just lend us y’r slaughterin’ knife an’
tell us where I can find the dorg —he
seems to be in prime condition.”
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: When the next civilisa-
tion, a few thousand years hence —the
earth having slowly recovered from the
first, and last, atomic-bomb war —starts
to survey its heritage it will surely be
interested in such a spot as the Boulder
goldmining belt. During the past half-
century that cubic mile of earth has
yielded up millions of tons of primitive
rock which, after being crushed, roasted
at a nearly white heat and ground to the
fineness of flour, has been distributed in
considerable masses around the adjoining
landscape; stuff that possesses most of
the qualities of an oil-paint pigment.
Wonder what those scifcntists-to-come will
make of it.
• ♦ • •
“R.G,”: I noticed the kookaburra
perched on the cross-arm of a light-pole,
his head on one side while he scrutinised
the ground with great concentration.
Following his gaze all I could see was a
small heap of twigs on a surface of rock.
As I looked back at him he took off in
silence and landed on the heap. Keeping
his wings extended, he immediately began
an odd kind of circular dance on the
twigs, the tip of each wing describing a
semi-circle on the surface beyond the
twigs. The performance came to an end
abruptly as Jacky’s head disappeared into
the centre of the heap; then he was air-
borne again, in his beak a wriggling
mouse. Obviously hfc had been shepherd-
ing the rodent away from the edges back
into the centre where it could be grabbed.
♦ • * ♦
“Bogaduck”: At week-ends I get out
with a bushwalking club, whose members
indulge in the friendly rivalry of design-
ing the lightest in packs. After much
research and experiment it is now pos-
sible for us to go for a two-day trip with
a pack which weighs no more than 181 b.
—some get it down to 15 —which com-
prises : rucksack to carry it in, tent, com-
bination groundsheet-cape of plastic
sheet, down sleeping bag, spare socks and
sweater, frying-pan, billy, eating tools,
soap, towel, water-bottle, first-aid pack-
age and dehydrated food for six meals.
Slung evenly from both shoulders, with
pads of sponge rubber to avoid chafing,
you hardly realise that you’re carrying
anything, even when crossing steep and
rugged hills. It is never as tiring as some
lighter loads I’ve carted across similar
country—dingo-traps, strainer and coil of
fencing-wire, shotgun and cartridges, or
axe, shovel and wedges. I often wonder
what one of the old-time swaggies, hump-
ing a 601 b. “knot,” would think of our
modern lightweight gear; I also wonder
why the Army didn’t get a few bush-
walkers to design a lightweight outfit for
the P. 8.1. instead of loading us down with
the draught-horse harness which we
humped around in the mountains of New
Guinea,
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: It was hot, even for
Broome, and the commercial traveller in
the Continental sat under the electric
fan, surrounded by palms and ice-chest
and bemoaning the heat. Old Tom sipped
his beer and listened until his patience
gave out. . “Hot,” he exploded, “you
ought to talk about hot in here, with
fans and ice all ’round yer! How’d yer
like t’ be out on the track, a hundred
miles from nowhere, with heat an’ dust
yer can’t see through, crook feet, no
water in yer bag, sore eyes, barcoo rot
an’ a dog that won’t follow y’?”
* * * *
“Kendon”: Nominate as the biggest
ant-heap in the world a termite pile at
Condon (W.A.), the terminus of one of
the rabbit-proof fences. Starting as a
“Sorry, but I've worked my 40 hours this week.”
heap of empty bottles, mostly cased, it
acquired the usual mud coating when the
termites discovered the cellulose content
of the cases and straw envelopes.
Apparently the insects liked the arrange-
ment whereby they could have a bottle
in every suite or a suite in every bottle,
because the last time I saw it the ter-
mitory had all the appearances of a per-
manent residence. That was years ago,
but I hope no vandal has destroyed it.
Sited on the top of the longest fence in
the world, the product of years of fruit-
less toil concentrated in one huge un-
profitable bank, the glassy nature of its
structure obscured by mud, it is symbolic
of the country and an object lesson in
socialism.
* * * *
“Zake”: I have struck many bush sub-
stitutes for tobacco, from tea and the
root of the wild apple to stringybark and
the dried leaves of the dock weed, which
most kids have sampled wrapped in
brown paper. But one rural dweller I
met was filling his pipe with the hair-
like substance from the cobs of ripened
maize—he swore it was little inferior to
the best Virginia leaf.
♦ • ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Those Malays
whose influence can be seen in the abo-
riginal drawings of the Glenelg River
caves (B. 3/9/’47) were not merely the
crews of vessels driven too far south.
They were genuine voyagers and ex-
plorers, and, if they made no large-scale
attempt at permanent settlement, at least
they made lasting provision for repairing
any vessels that were damaged in what
must have been regular voyages to the
inhospitable southland. My proof? At
odd points along the northern Westralian
coast —not a few miles inland, but grow-
ing right to the water’s edge—there are
areas thickly studded with an ebony-tree
which was almost certainly planted by
visitors from islands or the Asiatic main-
land. Sceptics who can explain the pre-
sence of ebony as attributable to bird
droppings, tides or some such natural
cause may also be able to account for
occasional patches of Puan Pine, a typi-
cally island tree, which, if it had been
indigenous to Australia, would occur more
frequently, and more numerously, and
not always near a sheltered anchorage.
My guess is that it was established at
the various harbors used by the Malay
seamen. The pine grows as straight as a
die and would make excellent masts to
replace ones damaged in those cyclonic
disturbances which are still a danger to
coastal shipping.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: A cove from the Martha-
guy battled a hunk of corned beef from
a Narromine butcher, took it down to
the river and boiled it. An hour later it
was cooling off on a log when a wander-
ing greyhound discovered it. Dog and
meat loped into Narromine with the
Marthaguy man yelling behind them.
Other dogs sighted the greyhound’s prize
and joined the chase. The Marthaguy
man gave up, dredged his last shilling
from his pockets, retired to the Imperial
and in a bitter silence downed one pot
and called for another. He was slowly
absorbing this when 14 assorted dogs
rushed into the bar and disputed fiercely
with one another for that hunk of beef.
Men kicked and swore at the dogs and
the publican swiped at them with a yard-
broom, what time a long, lean figure
threw dogs right and left and emerged
with the prize. While the defeated-
hounds fell over themselves to get away
from the broom, the Marthaguy man
eyed the piece of beef, downed his drink,
then took the beef to that butcher, shoved
it under his nose in front of half a dozen
customers and snarled, “Look, this is
y’r beef. I boiled it for an hour an’
seventeen dawgs ’ve bin tryin’ t’ bite it
ever since. It come out without a
scratch an’ ” But that butcher was
quick. He shoved a string of sausages
and five bob into Marthaguy’s hands,
shoved him out of the shop and, show-
ing him the road to Trangie, uttered five
menacing words. Three minutes later
Narromine drowsed peacefully in the
summer sun and its dogs slept in the
shade, while a small cloud of dust rolled
slowly towards Trangie.
* * * »
“Meekatharra”: Strange how animals
accustom themselves to various pheno-
mena. Flying over Java we noticed that,
around Batavia and other cities, grazing
cattle never even raised their heads when
the Libs, flew over —very low, too.
Apparently the beasts had become so
familiar with aircraft that they paid them
even less attention than they gave to the
flies on their backs. Out in the back
country, however, it was another story
—both boongs and their cattle went for
the lick of their lives at the first sight of
the planes. And over Bali, where it was
common to see a farmer tending a soli-
tary cow, Brindle invariably developed
the powers of a steeplechaser as she took
off across the terraced fields, leaving her
guardian waving his arms and doubtlessly
hurling impotent abuse at the aircraft.
• ♦ * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I struck two peculiar
blokes once,” said Mat. “Brothers, they
was, runnin’ a grape block in Mildoora.
It took me a while t’ wake up t’ what
was goin’ on, because they got me mixed
up with the orders—one’d tell me what t’
do on Mondee, an’ the other on Toosdee,
see. Anyhow, I stuck ’em up about it
an’ they tell me that when their old man
left ’em the place he left it in his will
they was t’ share everythin’ fifty-fifty.
Well, they took it t’ mean half the
bossin’, too, an’ first they tried one bein’
boss for six munce an’ then the other.
That didn’t work, so they tried month
about. That was no good, either, so they
finally got down t’ day about. Gosh,
they was a queer pair.” “Mow’d you
get on with ’em?” I asked. Mat looked
thoughtful. “Aw, all right,” he said,
“until one mornin’ I go up t’ the house
an’ there’s a hell of a row. Yairs, y’
see, it happened t’ be a leap year an’
this day was the 29th of February an’
it had ’em beat. At four o’clock that
afternoon they was still arguin’, so I
snatched it.”
* * * ♦
“Urana”: While riding along the bank
of the Kiewa River (Vic.) 1 saw a possum
hanging from a willow branch far out
over the water. Closer investigation re-
vealed a tragedy. It must have slipped
from the tree and in falling caught its
tail in the end of the pliant branch, which
had made a tight knot around it a
couple of inches from the end. The un-
fortunate creature must have hung there,
trapped, a foot from the water until it
died.
• * * *
“Abi Tonus”: Rogeia is a long island
near Samarai, Papua, and the inhabitants
are generally regarded as long-headed,
even for these parts. On Saturdays they
bring over to Samarai what fruits and
vegetables they feel disposed to sell,
arriving early to beat the opposition from
Sariba Island. On a recent Saturday
there were no canoes from Rogeia.
Passengers on ships find little to do
whilst the ships are being worked, and
one enterprising chap, not wishing to pay
the high prices demanded for fruit (in
spite of attempts at price-fixing), took
a launch to Rogeia and came back
loaded to the gunwales with fruit and
veges. which had cost him nothing.
Others wanted to know how it was done,
so he told them: “I just made them a few
promises after telling them my name was
Eddie, and I came from Canberra.”
* * ♦ •
“Chuck”: As the opening of the trout
season approached Jim began thinking,
talking and dreaming fish. He dug out
his old rod, mended the reel, and rode
into town for new line and gut. The
great day opened with a hoary frost, and,
fumbling round by lantern light, the
enthusiast swallowed a mug of tea and
started riverward with the break of light.
Hour after hour he fell over rocks,
scratched a way through blackberries and
stinging nettles, till finally he raised a
small rainbow. Poised excitedly, he didn’t
notice the loose granite till the bank gave
way and landed him Jen feet below in
the icy pool. He ruefully surveyed his
broken watch, torn clothes and barked
shins, then suddenly broke into a stream
of blasphemy as he realised the fish had
got away. All day he walked, slid or
scrambled in difficult country, and return-
ing dead beat towards evening, ran into
Barney. “Big box o’ fish come up
on the mail train,” informed Barney, dis-
playing a large parcel. “Store’s sellin’
’em cheap. Y’oughter take some ; they’re
good-oh.” Jim shook his head. “S’pose
they’d be right enough, if a man wanted
’em bad enough,” he conceded half-
heartedly, “but, cripes, y’ miss all the fun
gettin’ ’em like that.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: “Why can’t Fitzie catch
his own blasted rabbits? We’re busy,”
I growled, as we turned the mob into
the lane that ran through the Fitzgerald
property. Seventyfiver looked reproachful,
“Cripes, it don’t hurt t’ do a busy bloke a
turn sometimes, Sol,” he replied, “Fitzie
asked me t’ get any I put up. Anyway,
it’ll do f’r dog tucker.” Calling his dog,
he followed the bunny about quarter of
a mile up a steep spur, where, after
considerable trouble, he managed to poke
it from the log in which it had taken
refuge. He had barely returned to the
mob when the dogs again put up a bunny
and ran it up to the top of the spur.
With a sigh, the old bloke once more
made the rough trip. The second catch
swinging from his saddle, we had the
mob again stringing nicely when the
mongs took off after another rabbit. The
old bloke became interested in the horizon
in the opposite direction. Blue broke into
excited barking, but Seventyfiver was
apparently too engrossed to notice. “It’s
a rabbit,” I told him. “Gone into that
same log on top of the ridge.” There
was no answer. “Don’t hurt to do a bus}
bloke a turn sometimes,” I addec
maliciously. “Besides, it’ll do fT dog
tucker.” Seventyfiver turned with a snort
“Aw, cut it out, Sol,” he roared. “Y
know we’re busy. Anyway, why cant
Fitzie catch his own blasted rabbits?”
THE MILKMAN.
In the pale morning light
Through all sorts of weather
The milkman clatters up the path
Swinging his pails together.
While the moon still hangs awry
And the dew bears down the grasses
Out of the dim, grey void he comes
And swift as a fox he passes.
Swift as a fox and strange,
A creature with his being
Become as nothing but two feet
That sound beyond our seeing.
Oh does he feel with joy
The sweet airs round him blowing?—
And savor scents of new-washed earth
And secret flowers a-growing?
And does he, listening, hear
Somewhere away behind him
The thin, sharp cries of waking birds,
Dream-music that reminds him
Of cows in lush, green grass,
And sun-warmed capeweed-hollows,
And straggling little farmhouse roofs
Crusted with nests of swallows?
Or does he brood in scorn
On us who turn right over
To clutch again the threads of sleep
In beds as soft as clover?
What face has he, what form?
Lithe-limbed and young, or graceless?
Strange, running milkman, he must be
For ever formless, faceless!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


“Youanmi”: There was nothing the
new cook couldn’t do —except cook.
He’d seen every battle from Mons to
Alamein and the Kokoda Trail; he could
shoot the cap off a beer bottle at 100
yards before his eyes had gone on him ;
before he’d hurt his shoulder he could
shear sheep and skin ’roos with anyone;
he’d known everyone worth knowing
from Billy Hughes to an aunt who used
to cook for Ned Kelly. Run? My oath
he could—a champion over middle dis-
tances in his day. Jump? Too right-
beat the State champion in an unofficial
workout. Walk? “Strewth, I once did
35 miles in two hours.” Told after the
stunned silence that there wasn’t and
never had been a heel-and-toe artist in
the world to approach that speed, the
babbler looked as if he were trying hard
to remember something. Then he said
“I’m dead sure it only took me • two
hours—o’ course it was in me own dis-
trick, where I knew all the short cuts,”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Slightly sober after a day
in the township, we rattled homeward in
the wagonette before a stiff westerly wind.
Along a bit, there came towards us a
bloke on a bike, his chin on the handle-
bars, his legs working proppily in slow-
motion, the wind almost halting him.
The boss reined in and waited for him
to plug up. “Yer ridin’ against the wind,
mate,” he shouted, “That’s what’s makin’
yer bike so hard t’ push.” The reply of
of the wind-worn cyclist filled us with
delight, but it so shocked the old mare
that she grabbed the bit and bolted full
lick right to the home paddock gate.
* * # *
“L.P.”; I’m from the stringybark
country, but I won’t have it that the
honey it produces makes the top grade
(B. 3/9/’47). In forests where the stringy-
bark grows can. often be found the belts
of yellow-box, and that’s what the
apiarists chase. The box blooms every
second year and it’s when the stringy-
bark comes out at the same time that the
bee men use the proper bee language.
When mixed in the combs (bees don’t
discriminate when gathering) it tangs the
flavor and darkens the color of the rich,
clear yellow-box Jioney.
* * * *
“Loc”; I was pleased to note that
“Dutigalla” (B. 24/9/’47) admits that as
dog-anaesthetists my feet have it all over
his. Although I’ve won the title with a
clean knock-out, a multitude of dog-
lovers will no doubt think that they
possess greater potentialities within their
own shoes. Can they, however, beat this
—my dinnyhayzar? Quail hunting some
years ago near Kempsey, N.S.W., I
traipsed across rough country for half
a day, the only things raised being a
crop of blisters on my heels. On settling
down to lunch, I removed my footwear,
and an unheard-of sight followed. The
birds in the surrounding country went
mad—wood pigeons spiralled down from
the trees, apparently trying to fly with
one wing ; an eagle, passing high over-
head, made the same manoeuvre and,
flopping down in the lopsided manner of
the others, landed not far away, I pro-
claimed the miracle to some friends. They
were as amazed as I had been until one
discerning fellow suggested that, consider-
ing I had removed my shoes, the reason
for the attempted one-wing flight was
simple: “Just trying to hold their nose.”
* * * *
“Wippfegong”: Smoko Doug settled
himself on a log, and mechanically
pulled out and used the makings as he
kept his eyes on a brown treecreeper
which was abusing us for stopping be-
neath a spout where it was feeding a
family. In a clump of suckers beyond,
a group of babblers were justifying their
name, whilst above them a friar bird was
broadcasting a scandalous line of domestic
gossip. Then a bonnie song rang out
near by, and faded as a rufous songlark
flew, singing as he went, from the box-
tree on our left to a clump across the
clearing, and Doug’s eyes followed him
till he became part of the brown shadows
again ; then they flicked back to catch
the cause of a minor scuffle closer to
hand: a red-capped robin was hurl-
ing a greenie from his territory.
The honeyeater was inclined to argue ;
but a willie wagtail—a terrier among
birds —came in on the side of the
robin, and that was that. A clear, ring-
ing “wit-i-chu” seemed too strong a note
to come from the tiny crittur fluttering
at the tip of a drooping branch, but a
moment later the pardalote came lower
and confirmed his claims ; then a glorious
“Not quite so fast , Wally — you're nearly a bar ahead of us !”
burst of melody told that a pair of rufous
whistlers had taken a breather from
domestic duties and refreshed themselves,
and everything within range, with song.
Then, from the thicker scrub, came a
haunting call that had something of the
horns of elf-land in it; beginning so softly
that you wondered when it started, swell-
ing, then cutting off short. A pause, then
he was at it again, and then you saw
him; right out on a dead stick above the
green, the crest coming up as the bell-
bird slowly turned his head to present
the full beauty of his song to all around.
Doug stamped out his bumper, picked up
his axe and uttered the only words spoken
during the spell: “They take a lot of
the loneliness out of the bush, don’t they?”
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”; Up to a few years ago
a mob of horses used to wade daily at
low tide across the sandbar to a iushly
vegetated island in the estuary of the
Maroochy River,, S.Q. The island being
waterless, return trips to the mainland
were essential, but these were delayed to
the last minute at which the making tide
allowed the possibility of the safe home-
ward crossing. Psychologists’ denial of
the lower animals’ capacity to reason
notwithstanding, the mokes were never
marooned as a result of miscalculation of
tidal tables, though they sometimes
strayed far from the sandbar in their
quest for fodder. And, as a result of
bars, shallows and other obstacles, tides
in these part do not run to regular forty-
minutes-later-every-day schedules.
* * * *
“Plop”: Sad Harry entered the Royal
and howled for beer. Although his face
was naturally like that of a bloodhound
who has sat on a Bathurst burr, it must
“Wot's the use o’ tellin' us the latest fashions when we can't git a suit
tailored under six months !”
have been inches longer on this occasion.
He began his dirge: “It’s me kids. They
got hold of the puzzle page out of the
paper and they’ve nearly sent their old
man bats. They told me one of the
puzzles had a fiver prize attached, and
like a goat I pinched the paper and had
a crack at it. All I had to do for the
spin was to fold a sheet of paper in
halves, doublin’ its thickness, more than
nine times —any sized sheet, thin as fag
paper if y’ like. After I’d had a couple
of goes at it, I started on a sheet of paper
the size of Bert’s billiard table. Do y’
think I could beat that ninth fold? I
belted it with a hammer, clamped it in a
vice, but I wasn’t in the race.” The
mob asked Harry where they could pick
up the fiver, and spread their newspapers
on the counter. That was last week. Since
then. Bung has been kept busy sweeping
out hills of paper, left by unsuccessful
triers for the purse. An Aboliar who can
do the trick will be elevated to Chief
Liar of the Council.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Dad finished the last post-hole
and looked at his watch. A quarter past
twelve. “Time we was makin’ tracks,
Ginger,” he called to his dog, “or we
won’t be home be ha’ past f’r dinner.”
Upending a heavy post into the last hole,
he squinted down the line ; then, walking
to the far end of his prospective new
yards, he tipped in another strainer.
Again he sighted down the row, and, still
not satisfied, manoeuvred the post over
and began ramming it. A couple more
posts were added to the row; then Dad
turned as Ginger began barking at a log.
“Got somethin’, eh?” he called. “Aw-
right, I’ll come an’ chop it out.” Twenty
minutes later, he crossed to Bill Adams’s
fence to see how his ewes were standing
the dry spell, from there went on to look
at some calves and inspected the dam ;
then, turning homeward, he met Ted with
the mails, “Cripes, Dad, I broke me
flamin’ watch,” announced the mailman,
when the weather, the stock market and
the income tax had all been exhausted.
“Ain’t got one y’ c’d lend me, I ’spose?”
“ ’Fraid I ain’t, Ted,” Dad regretted.
“Only got this ’n here, an’ gosh, a man
c’d ’ardly do without it. He’d never
know when t’ knock orf f’r dinner.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: With more curiosity
than humanity, scientists' have carried
out a number of experiments to test the
I.Q. of various animals. Thorndyke’s
experiment was tried on a cat. The
starved animal was placed in a cage the
door of which opened when a suspended
trigger contrivance was knocked. For
hours the tortured creature tried to
reach the bowl of food outside; then it
accidentally touched the trigger. The
next time the cat escaped sooner.
Finally it realised that the trigger opened
the door, and from then on released itself
immediately it was imprisoned. Kohler,
a German who was isolated on a Pacific
island during the 1914-18 war, experi-
mented with monkeys. Starved and shut
in a cgge with no means of reaching a
bunch of bananas except by the use of
a long pole, the shrewd little fellows
learned to stand the pole up, swiftly
shin up it and snatch the fruit before
the pole fell over. In a further experi-
ment the monkeys found the sticks pur-
posely left in the cage and used them to
rake within reach the food left beyond
the bars. As a final test the cleverest
monkey was given two sticks which
joined together by a socket, fishing-rod
fashion. Time after time he tried to
' rake the food in with first one then the
s other. Then, as though thinking it out,
she sat and studied both sticks. Kohler
' records that when, by accident or design,
' the monkey joined the two he knew im-
mediately that the stick was now long
enough to reach the food, and although
almost starving he was so delighted with
his success that he raked all the bananas
in before beginning to eat the first.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”; I would like to know the
scientists who claimed that our dingo was
originally the Pekinese of China (B.
3/9/’47). The dingo has the same com-
mon ancestor as the wild dog of India,
and he came here by canoe or raft with
the ancestors of our present-day abo-
rigines, who are allied to the Dravidian
hillfolk of India. The first human beings
to enter Australia were a negrito race
which had no domesticated dog; these
peoples also spread through the Philip-
pines and into New Guinea. They were
surviving only in Tasmania when white
settlement began in Australia, but they
are still to be found in the other two
lands. Later, the abo. came with his dog.
The old theory of the land bridge between
Australia and Asia was exploded long
ago; had one ever existed the monkey,
elephant, tiger and similar animals would
also have crossed. It is quite possible,
however, that a land bridge, or a chain
of islands and reefs which were almost
the same, did at one time connect our
continent with New Guinea. It is now
obvious that both the first Tasmanian-
negrito people and our abos., no matter
how primitive in other directions, were
adept at building and using rafts when
they first came here, as in both cases their
oldest camp sites are found along the
coasts or down the valleys of big rivers.
Only by raft could they have reached
Tasmania, for there has been no land
bridge between that island and the main-
land for ages—certainly not since the
most primitive of all human beings
evolved on the earth.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: When Long Ned periodi-
cally returned from the mulga and opened
the door of his old humpy he was al-
ways delighted to snuggle down on the
feather bed which seemed so alien to his
general toughness, “Makes a bit of soft
sleeping after months on the ground,”
he would say. That sack of feathers had
an odd history. Bought from an auction
mart, it was reputed to be an item of bed-
ding that, with much other plunder, had
been sniped by Old Camp wastrels
on the night when fire raged in Lindsay-
street, wiping out the maisons of Cool-
gardie’s frail sisterhood. Came the day
when Ned found himself attached for
keeps to a long-haired mate, one of
whose first acts was to empty the feather
bed with a view to washing the tick and
giving the ex-plumage an airing. That
act brought to light nearly 50 banknotes.
One could picture the careful Marie, sav-
ing a little for herself from the avaricious
eyes of Madam, unpicking a corner of
her mattress, pushing an occasional note
in, then sewing the hiding place up again.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: “No,” said Joe, “I ain’t
had time to rebuild that shed. Y’ ain’t
heard how it got wrecked? Remember
that big, old dry tree down in the low
paddock? Well, I’m down there one
winter afternoon with Barton’s motor
saw, plugging away at the butt —it’s fully
eight feet through and curly as a Merino
—when down comes a fog thicker’n pea-
soup. I dunno where I was, but I kept
going because I reckoned a couple of
hours would see the job finished. After
a while she starts to creak and groan, so
I knocked some more wedges in and cut
the motor. For a couple of minutes she
quivered and wavered, and then sort of
settled back again, only with a slight list
to port —y’ know, a lean uphill sort of.
Well, it took me a few minutes to work it
out, and y’ mightn’t believe it, but the fog
was that thick the tree’d got caught in
it and couldn’t fall. I tried leverin’ with
a pinch-bar, but it’s no go. In the end I
gave it up as a bad job and decided I
could do nothing about it until the fog
lifted, and then it would just tumble on
its own. When I’m havin’ tea I hear the
crash. I goes out an’ there’s the blasted
tree fair across the shed instead of failin’
towards the crick. Yair, a wind had come
up and blown the fog up the hill and
dragged the tree with it.”
TOWN HALL TOWER.
There a million pounds of stone
In mighty silence rears to the sky,
Formidable and beautiful,
Transfixing clouds with its beacon eye:.
A poem in masonry, clear, defined,
Shaped to perfection and designed
To withstand the critic years of rain
And winds that ridicule in vain:
A resolute silhouette of rhythms
Wrought by hands and trowels high
In the air, looming against the sullen
Mountains, solemn as a sigh.
Its four clocks, livid compass faces,
Lead the sun from the pallid east
At six and lure with chimes the workmen
From the warmth of wives and mists of rest.
And there inset, like the star-bright eye
Of a lonely giant, the beacon blinks
Out redly as if that massive head
Awakes each night, and sees, and thinks.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID H. ROWBOTHAM.


term up with ft-»•*
I.*-*- « “SS r. *—»“ ■“
whatever
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. LTD.
v . , ■ - • (INC. IN ENGLAND. 1563, ’ ' '
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, WACCA. MOREE, HENTY.AND HAY:
THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
%
THE
DAVIDSON
& SMIIH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-put or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
l|in. Ring Surcingle, Uin. best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephone: FA 5013.
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL and A CERTAIN
KILLER
Available from Storekeepers
m
m
i/'V
i
‘vyjiirim'
4
Everywhere
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE; MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
CHAT
»
the
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject
to accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration an
uninterrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are ot
paramount importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing
this Company your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present
appointee. An interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on
request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Lee.
Manager-L. S. Parker. Secretary-E. R. Overton, A.3T.1.A.
BURNS PHIIP TRUST
COMPANY limited
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE » AGENT
BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901 Box 643 G.P.0., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“DONT WORRY . I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Melbourne Show Cattle.
“Mr.”: Except for Red Polls, entries
in all breeds were up on 1946 figures —
beef and dual-purpose breeds by 25 p.c.;
dairy cattle by more than 60 p.c.
Figures were, beef cattle 304; dual-
purpose breeds 399 ; dairy cattle 1204.
In (he beef section Aberdeen Angus
made the greatest advance on last year’s
entries, 60 p.c. Beef Shorthorns gained
20 p.c., Herefords, polled and horned,
11 p.c. In the dual-purpose section Dairy
Shorthorns accounted for the section in-
crease of 25 p.c. (Red Polls were down a
fraction compared with 1946). Greatest
percentage gain in the dairy cattle
section was made by the Friesians, which
more than doubled their 1946 figures.
Ayrshires made a 75 p.c. advance, while
the Jerseys as usual (495 of them) pro-
vided the largest entry numerically of
any breed and gained 65 p.c. on last year.
The Aberdeen Angus made strong contrast
with the Beef Shorthorns, alongside which
they were judged, emphasising in their diminu-
tive stature the extent to which breeders have
attempted to comply with the demands of the
butchering trade for smaller and still smaller
joints. The champion bull, Booroomooka
Oration, which came from the three-year-old
class, was bred by H. Gordon Munro (N.S.W.).
A well-proportioned animal, sleek and stocky,
he was the answer to the suburban butchers’
dream. Reserve was taken by Kahlua Cairo,
a year younger. . ,
Polled Shorthorns were represented by two
lonely entries, each unopposed in its class.
In the horned section, however, 103 paraded.
As at Sydney, reds preponderated over roans
and a red bull, Woomargama Leander, bred
at C. P. Fairbairn’s Riverina stud, slipped his
thick neck through the sash. A younger bull,
the 13-month-old Lochinver President, also a
red, “imp. in utero” by Williamson Bros., was
reserve.
Polled and horned Herefords made an
attractive display. Of late years the bailies
have had to contend with a number of con-
flicting “ideologies” in the cattle-breeding
world, but through it all have managed to hold
their own. They have appearance, handy size,
hardiness and ability to quickly fatten on good
country to counter any objections that might
be raised against them. Like the Shorthorns
the Herefords will take a power of effort to
displace them from the beef-raisers’ if not the
butchers’ esteem. Both horned and polled
types made an attractive showing. Best bull
was a well-fleshed two-year-old specimen, Golf
Hill Beta, by Golf Hill Beaulute. Beta was
bred at Golf Hill by his owner, Mrs. J.
Biddlecombe. The reserve was taken by last
year’s champion, South Boorook Dynamic, bred
by J. R. Allen, and through his dam, Golf Hill
Marshall Lass 80th, coming from the same
pastures as the champion.
Red Polls were not as numerous but the
breed, which has been described as the Corrie-
dale of the cattle world, was not disgraced
by the 90 exhibits which comfortably filled all
classes. Entries came from all parts of Vic-
toria and near-by States. Champion bull, Bum
Gherin Warlad, a two-year-old by Burnwood
Warlord from Niawanda Saffron, was bred by
A. R. Beggs, who farms a nice property near
Beaufort (Vic.). The same exhibitor achieved
a near-miss in the female section with ISiawanda
Baronia, reserve champion lemale.
Dairy Shorthorns made an attractive dis-
play, and as with their beef cousins, reds and
near-reds predominated. The championship
went to a splendidly-proportioned roan bull,
Weeroona Clarabelle’s Banker 3rd, a four-year-
old which would add to the appearance of. any
herd. Reserve went to D. M. Ross, of Boon-
ong, Bayswater, with Churchill Paradox 20th.
Given another year this bull will give a better
account of himself. Champion cow Boonong
Moss Rose 2nd, another representative of
Boonong, compensated to some extent for
Paradox’s defeat.
DAIRY BREEDS.
A.I.S. are holding their own in Victoria.
Entries were up from 141 to 182 compared
“What you going to plant—rice or water-lilies ?”
with last year. Yet, in comparison with most
of the other rings, few spectators watched pro-
ceedings. Parkview Winston, a four-year-old
red bull with good head, topline, fine body and
deep flank, repeated his performance of last
year by carrying off the championship. Another
bull in the same class, J. C. West’s Myrtleville
Velocity, was reserve champion. Veresdale Lulu
and Veresdale Royal were champion and re-
serve champion females respectively.
Ayrshires attracted large audiences, A. Facey
and Sons exhibited the champion bull, Glen-
gowrie Flash Baron, a nicely-marked, true-to-
type four-year-old. This bull, which carried
itself in a manner to bring delight to the heart
of Ayrshire enthusiasts, had achieved previous
successes this year at Sydney and Adelaide
shows. The reserve champion, Burwood Social
Justice, a brown-and-white two-year-old, was
bred by Thomas Hose, Camperdown (Vic.).
Although nicely marked and well proportioned,
the younger bull had no chance against the
champion. Female honors for the breed went
to Retreat Renaila, with Oakbank Glen Echo
in reserve.
Guernsey championship went to Yarraview
Foremost, owned by Dr. F. G. Stephens and
bred at Yarraview by Capt. Payne. Yarraview
Ladylove won the female championship, with
Glenoak Morning Glory in reserve.
Friesians had 82 entries against 39 last year.
The black-and-whites, never popular in Vic-
toria, seem to have kept their hold on breeders’
affections, and this year’s increase should put
their supporters in good heart. The champion
bull, Gowerville Sylvester, came from the
senior class. Bred by his owners, P. Good-
fellow and Sons, Bunyip, he’s a , superb, well-
built animal in wonderful show condition.
Runner-up, Ravenswood Percy, a much younger
bull, wouldn’t have been so far behind with
another year or two on him. Lerderberg Leita
2nd led the females, with Victoria Jostle next.
A feature of the Jerseys was the remarkably
large crowd, which, in spite of comings and
goings, remained constant in number (about
1000) throughout the afternoon—a pretty fair
gauge of Jersey popularity in Victoria.. It can
be left to herd test results to provide some
indication of the great influence the little
Channel Islanders have exercised on Victorian
dairying over the past quarter of a century.
In the Standard Herd Test for Pure-bred Cows
conducted by the Victorian Department of
Agriculture, Jerseys with one exception have
occupied the leading position for 25 years.
This year’s championship in the male section
went to an attractive six-year-old bull, Belgonia
Sunray, sired by Baron Design (imp.), owned
by C. P. Maloney and bred at Tongala by
P. J. Maloney, Another bull of Maloney
senior’s breeding, Baron Aim, owned by J. P.
Evans, took the reserve championship. Bel-
gonia Marie 21st, a handsome four-year-old
cow with the typical “Belgonia” coloring, and
a nicely-shaped capacious udder, took the
female championship. W. J. Clarke’s Roch-
dale Love Lies 2nd was the reserve champion.
Grazing Pigs.
“Nedher”: Feeding protein-rich foods
to pigs, including separated milk, is wise.
So long as the grunters get adequate
calcium from other tucker, or by way
of lime in drinking water, they will pro-
duce bacon just as fast as their milk-fed
brethren and usually they don’t have
to be topped off before marketing. Be-
cause they have the bone and the frame
Large Whites are becoming popular as a
breed on the Darling Downs, and on a
350-acre farm at Yarraman J. A. John-
ston and J. W. Lathom are raising Large
Whites without the assistance of dairy
by-products. They have split the farm
into areas of from 12 to 15 acres and
graze over 500 Large Whites in much the
same way as dairy cattle are grazed. The
partners have shown that pigs can be
raised without the dairy adjunct. They
haven’t a cow on the place, nor do they
bring in milk or butter-milk.
The farm is watered by pipe lines and
troughs in each of the netted paddocks
and the pigs graze at will and find over
80 per cent, of their diet. When neces-
sary, this is supplemented by timed graz-
ing on crops of high-protein content-
peas, lucerne, oats, corn and milo. Ex-
perienced men, J. and L. see that there
is ample calcium in the pigs’ diet. They
grade their pigs, keep the grades in
separate runs, and don’t house them at
night or in rainy weather. The grunters
shelter in belts of natural scrub which
have been preserved on each sub-division.
Johnston and Lathom aim to double
their herd when wire-netting and water-
supply materials are obtainable and to
ultimately run 2000 pigs.
For breeding, the partners use five
boars and 35 sows, never mate a boar
before 10 months or a sow under 12
months. Boars and sows go to the butcher
after they reach five years of age, the
owners holding that after that age they
will ho longer be prolific breeders.
Ninety-eight per cent, of the pigs raised
in the past six years have been rated as
first-grade by the co-operative bacon
company to which they are forwarded.
All breeding is done on the property, and
since they started operations no pig has
been brought on to the place. The owners
claim that none of their pigs have been
rejected because of disease, the farm
all along being free of major diseases
associated with pig-raising.
Poultry on the Farm.
“Prof.”: On the average mixed farm
they are generally a mongrel, inbred lot
producing comparatively few eggs. A
little care in breeding and feeding means
improvements in both quantity and
quality of eggs. The hens are usually
allowed a free range, and may, as a rule,
be found roosting on the implements at
night. Excellent shelters can be made
by stretching bags or hessian over wooden
frames and coating with thin suspensions
of cement. If these are periodically
cleaned out and sprayed with waste oil
disease and parasites will be kept at a
minimum. To ensure clean eggs, put the
nests in secluded spots and line with
straw; collect the eggs at least once a
day.
Only one breed should be kept and


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOM Alt), Dears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
H.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, Q.P.0., Sydney.
■How much docs^ai
■ll
*****
*Ol
Spg
s
m
mm
u-^
55LO^ a
#*»«*
iSiS
Pto 4
' ';-
£
*
%
KrfU
<*£****>
JJw
ffi.o
v;
rf/
c t•S'
H
>*»«
s*"»
ii&tfeta
FIRST cost is important . . . but only in relation to
final cost. Where is the wisdom of buying on the basis
of low purchase price when, over the years, you may pay
in costly replacements, more than the engine is worth?
Price does not determine Value. The only true guide .is
Performance and Ronaldson-Tippett reputation is a sure
indication of permanent satisfaction.
Better to take count of Quality before buying, remem-
bering that Ronaldson-Tippett Engines are built on a basis
of “Plus Value”—so% greater value than others.
Proof of this greater value is shown in black and white
in the “Plus Value” lists published by Ronaldson-Tippett.
Write for the list of Ronaldson-Tippett “Plus Values”. Make
your comparison with any engine on the basis of the facts
it contains and you will find many pounds extra value in
Ronaldson-Tippett’s favour!
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.,
Frazer House. 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.,
Turbary House. 127 Eagle Street. BRISBANE.
RONRLDSfIN-TIPPETT
'//'Mm
rm
<&jn\
w*
"H
bj/,
5^
r
mn
%
El
*
I
s<
%
?>
WOLFE'S
tz^bcmahc
SCHNAPPS
WOLFES
MM®
the best for dual-purposes is undoubtedly
the Australorps.
The hens of all breeds produce best in
their first year, so try to replace at least
a third of the hens each year. Where
broody hens have to be relied upon for
incubation setting must begin as early
as possible, preferably before the end of
August. Keep the roosters down to the
absolute minimum required for breeding
purposes. Fertile eggs are of a low-
keeping quality, sd it is best not to retain
any more male birds than are required.
Assuming that poultry allowed a free
range scavenge for half the food they
eat, feed them loz. of mash (three parts
pollard and two parts bran) and loz. of
grain to each bird daily. At lean periods
it may be necessary to increase this ration.
The Shed Layout..
“Atlanta”: A worth-while improve-
ment to “C.S.’s” plan for shed and yard
layout (B. 6/8/’47) is by arranging dip
and draining peps on the end of the shed
opposite the lead-in ramp, so that sheep
travel in a direct route through the back
pens to the dip. Where sheds are walled
at the back and sides this alteration will
minimise labor required in forcing re-
luctant animals to the dip, as sheep
move more freely from the comparative
darkness to daylight ahead. Alteration
of dip site makes space available for an
additional small yard in a position handy
for pulling out stragglers or for holding
smaller portions of a mixed flock.
Where a spray dip has to be built be-
side a high shed concrete floors are not
essential. Heavy-gauge galvanised iron
securely screwed to a solid foundation of
joists and bearers will make a satisfac-
tory floor for both dipping- and draining-
pens. Coal tar liberally applied each year
after use preserve the iron against
arsenical corrosion and rust. *
As far as practicable, sheds in Queens-
land should be open on all sides except
engine-room and baled-wool room. This
promotes coolness in summer and uti-
lises the last-winter daylight. A veran-
dah roof surrounding the shed at a
height lower than the main roof is ade-
quate protection against rain, and if
floored this space can be used also for
penning sheep.
Another improvement is one or two
well-shaded wire holding yards, each
large enough to accommodate any flock
likely to be handled. Posts should be
spaced about 9ft, apart, with seven wires,
but wire-netting should not be used. The
yards can be used to hold dipped or
shorn sheep or to mother ewes and lambs
at marking time.
Fertilisers For Forcing.
“Bill C.”: Chemical fertilisers never
actually improve soil fertility (B.
13/8/’47), but they make crops hop
along. All the stable manure available
dumped around cabbages and other
greens will only make them grow
steadily, but even a pinch of sulphate of
ammonia watered in around the plants
will greatly accelerate growth. Growing
tendency in America and other progres-
sive countries is to begin liquid manur-
ing with suitable fertilisers right after
transplanting or thinning. Even the first
application of water after transplanting
is enriched with a little fertiliser.
I have prored that seedlings thus
watered take root firmly days before
those to which no fertiliser is given. The
mixture naturally must be very weak to
avoid over-forcing the seedlings.
Fertilising the drills before planting
sugar-cane or potato sets also hastens
germination and results in strong shoots.
The fertiliser, however, should be so in-
corporated with the soil that none of it
can come into actual contact with the
sets, and the soil should be quite moist.
Hints for the Farn?.
“Bill C.”: We have saved ourselves
endless trouble with our chaff-cutting
engine by straining suspect petrol through
chamois leather before using.
“J.H.”: To stop distemper file a half-
penny or its equivalent in copper tubing
until you have as much as will cover
a sixpence. Mix the filings with butter
or fat and put on the dog’s tongue,
making him swallow it. Repeat in 24
hours. This dose is for dogs of fox-
terrier size ; increase it for larger dogs.
Don’t give more than two doses; that
will cure most dogs if they’re not too far
gone.
“Ben Acre”: For those who are grow-
ing tomatoes or anything affected by
frost —unless it is very heavy it is not
the frost but the melting of the frost
on the plant that does the damage. If
plants that have been left uncovered on
a cold night are washed with a fine spray
just before sunrise no harm will be done.
“W. Court”: Silver beet is a good
green feed for poultry in N.Q-, where
lucerne is not a great success (B.
20/ 8/ ’47). Succession sowings three
months apart will often keep the hens in
green stuff for at least the warmer part
of the year. It may be necessary to make
more frequent sowings if the beet cannot
be kept thriving with plenty of water dur-
ing the very hot period. A few chilli
bushes are very handy ; both the green
leaves and fruit being good for the
poultry.
“Sarina”; Melt soft tallow and stir in
sufficient graphite (black lead) to make
a thick paste, which is very useful for
treating screws and bolts so they won’t
rust in their seats. It will keep indefinitely
in a sealed can or screw-top jar. Where
ungreased screws have rusted, holding the
tip of a red-hot poker to them for a few
minutes often results in their coming
loose easily.
“Comboyne”: To get rid of scaly-leg
in poultry isolate all lame birds and rake
up and burn all rubbish, putting down
clean sand and lime in the runs. Dip the
legs of affected birds into a mixture of
equal parts of paraffin and linseed oil.
Repeat in seven days and see that the
birds have sufficient green feed and plenty
of clean water.
“Sundowner”: Correct way to pack
eggs is with broad end uppermost. An
egg contains an outer shell membrane
and an inner shell membrane and when
it cools they separate at the large end
of the egg, causing an air cell. If the
egg is transported on its side or with
the broad end downwards the weight of
the contents causes rupture of the air
cell, relegating the egg to second quality.


GILLETTE A
RAZOR
WITH
5 BLUE
GILLETTE
BLADES
©
V I
J Uftu
.;n
m
m
f/Mm
m
mm
m
i\
Invest in the latest model of the
famous Gillette razor to arrive in this country !
It’s a purchase that means little in money, much in comfort. The
beautifully-balanced Razor holds a Gillette blade like a vyce,
presenting the shaving edge at an angle scientifically determined
to give, smooth, efficient shaving. Together the Gillette Razor
and blade form the world’s finest shaving system. Look for Gillette
Diamond—your assurance of true Gillette quality.
<5B/387
Good Mornings 9 begin with Gillette
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA FTY. LTD., SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump out
t of Bed in the Morning Full of Vint
The liver should give out two pound!
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn t
digest. You suffer from wind. You getconj
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and wears
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3/- & 1/3.
an umbrella went up. But the people
were silent. The question seemed to
have stunned them.
“It often happens,” went on the
evangelist, “that in a large gathering like
this, you do not know even the name of
the person sitting next to you. Now I am
going to ask you to please turn to the
person sitting on your right and shake
hands with him or her.”
The tension was broken.
In the front row Mr, Keyes immedi-
ately turned to one of the Clan Mc-
Shortodds, shook hands, winked and
said, “Keyes is the name —call me
Buncha.”
The first McShortodds turned to his
brother, shook hands with, “Your face
seems kinda familiar!” The younger Mc-
Shortodds shook hands with Mr. Sung and
said, “What’s cooking, Sam?” Mr. Sung
turned to Berry, pressed her fingers and
said with an eager smile, “I’m so delighted
to meet you!”
Berry gravely shook hands with her
husband, whispering, “Haven’t we met
somewhere before?” Jock gripped
Wally’s hand, “Ha, De! Perce and
Texas?”
With much stifled giggling, especially
from the row of Maoris, they all renewed
acquaintance with each other.
THEN the evangelist gave a little
address on Neighborliness. No one
sneered. What was there to sneer at in
being Good and Happy? Besides, here
was no synthetic neighborliness they
really liked each other. After the address
they sang. They held the fort. They
pulled for the shore. They dared to be
Daniels. With hymn sheets held above
their heads they waved the answer back
to heaven. They drowned the noise of
thunder and rain as they joined in a
song with sweet accord and went march-
ing to Zion. They followed Sophie.
The row of Maoris caught the atmos-
phere of Christian determination and
their voices went through the roof and
soared upwards. Sophie led them all
the way. They were the Advance Guard
—behind them came a mighty army, all
the peoples of the world, but the people
of this district were the pioneers, the
roadmakers, marching side by side.
Maori and pakeha, Chinese and Yugo-
slav, Dalmatian, and Mr. Christian
(watch and clock repairs) from Den-
■Mnark, Calcutta Jim, Mr. and Mrs.
Himmler (no relation to That Man), and
the whole Anderson family, including
their three-months-old baby. All neigh-
bors and friends.
Their leader, Sophie, had blown the
trumpet that would never sound Retreat.
Everything dark and dangerous fell be-
fore this marching army. Dark clouds
hastened to show their silver linings—ill
winds blew only good about them. Beauty
blessed them, Truth gave them each a
medal, and Peace crowned them with
olive leaves.
On and on they went, right through
the hymn sheet, following Sophie, who
marched breast forward. Even Mr.
White and Miss Gregg were putting their,
best feet forward, and the Clan Mc-
Shortodds were boldy proclaiming their’
intention of getting in on the Ground
Floor. The organ whined and growled
a few bars behind them, but what did
that matter? What did chopped-down
trees, broken milk bottles, sleeves turned
the wrong way round, Army huts turned
inside out, matter? Their great and
glorious leader was taking her little band
forward out of light hoped for into light
assured.
The happiest man in the tent was
Wally. He had awakened to the fact
that he had, after all, not married an
“Interfering fuff, fuff!”
Tonight, after the meeting, when Norty
came home from his Club, Wally decided
to have a talk with him. He would point
the stem of his pipe at his son and say,
“Your mother’s a fine woman! A fine
woman! If you’d been there to see the
people following her as she led the sing-
ing, you’d know better than to go hop-
ping out to your Club every time she
asks you to go anywhere with her! ” As
for Emma —Wally would write her a
sharp letter.
“Now, my fine young High School
lady, you just write to your good mother
more regular, or else —I’ll want to know
why! Your mother’s a fine woman, that’s
what! If you could see her sad-happy
face when she looks in the letter-box
and nothing from Miss High School
Emma ”
'"F HEN the Brains Trust arrived. Berry
1 and Sophie exchanged guilty glances
—they had forgotten to let them out of
the Screaming Meemies. The goats had
kicked a hole in the flimsy wall and come
to reclaim their stolen property.
They rushed the pulpit, bunting about
it, as if toying with the idea of knocking
it over —a good joke that would be!
Berry, who could always imagine an
animal conversation, could almost hear
them whispering, “So this is where the
old girl and Wally went to this after-
noon! Our tubs! The idea! There’s
nothing like a mouthful of borer-riddled
washtub to chew on when you’re
hungry!
The McShortodds and the row of
Maoris went to the rescue and managed
to seize three of the wet goats, but the
fourth was determined to have a little
fun before being caught.
The evangelist’s wife, still kneading
away on the tough old harmonium,
looked up to see why the singing had
stopped, and was knocked from her seat
by the fourth goat.
“Mind your shoes!” screamed Sophie.
“They love wet leather!” But the goat
had leaped on to the harmonium and
stood there, swaying drunkenly on its
precarious perch. It looked at the laugh-
ing faces with hard yellow eyes, and
although it was quite an old goat, it gave
a kid’s little bleat —a sound that was
like the far-away cry of a seagull.
It could not imagine where it was!
The thing it stood on was a hopeless
island of groans, so far removed from the
safe sure world its little heels liked to
click about on, grassy, earthy, or stony.
Sophie tugged, Sophie pulled, Sophie
smacked, but it made itself heavy with
stubborn fear.
It took two McShortodds and two
laughing, arguing Maoris to lift it down.
But it was, after all, a brave goat, com-
pletely upset and offended, and when set
on its legs it made for the remaining
congregation and got in a few punches be-
fore it was pushed outside. Even when
being dragged from the tent it did not
give in, but grabbed a mouthful of hymn
sheets from Mr. Sung, who had remained
cool and courteous all through the pande-
monium.
“Ah, Sophie! Sophie!” giggled the
the Maoris. “Ah, Sophie and her goats!
Sophie can always make you laugh!”
But people were not prepared to settle
down again. They were damp, cold and
uncomfortable and wanted to get home
as fast as they could. The evangelist
surveyed his wilting congregation and
knew that he had lost his grip. He looked
accusingly at Sophie.
“I know you mean well,” he said with
bleak benevolence. “But you have ruined
my meeting with your goats, you know
—completely ruined it, oh, yes.”
“But, Mister, it was the tubs. Berry
will tell you that the goats just love those
old tubs. It was like taking favorite
toys from children to take their tubs
away. I might have known they’d pay
me out. Tomorrow night”
“There will be no tomorrow night, for
this district,” he said firmly. “My nights
are booked ahead.”
MR. White, who was struggling into
a wet coat suddenly spoke up —his
voice was loud and harsh.
“A disgrace to the district, that’s what
it is! But what can you expect of an
interfering Fuff-FOOL of a woman who
would cut down two valuable trees?”
In a flash the rabbits fled from Wally’s
mind, leaving it calm and clear. Mr.
White of course —he knew it all the
time!
“Making a fuss about an old bottle
of milk,” he whispered to Berry.
There was a slight quiver in Sophie’s
voice when she said to Mr. White, “Look,
Mr. White, if you only knew how sorry
I am about that broken bottle —I’m
making you a boot-box”
But Mr/White turned away, cold and
unforgiving.
“Oh, Buncha! ” she cried to Mr. Keyes.
“Please don’t write about my goats!
Please don’t make fun of me in the Sun-
dial!”
“Of course not, Sophie.” He shook
his head vigorously. “Indeed no! I’ll
write about the way you led our fine
community-singing. The ‘Sundial’ re-
cords only happy hours.”


#
m
-vi
S 3
9U
R
MW
i
- -= —*v-av«>^
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
nezme’j 4-&
t£/(&
/
Prices : 30/-, 37/6, and 44/9
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
255 A George Street, Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
ẅ
w
consisting as they did in merely giving
most of the local populace a permanently
haunted look, as if they had forgotten
something. I thought I had struck oil
when a man who had nearly passed my
door came in for a pound of butter. It
was not until I saw the piece of string
tied round his finger that I realised my
message might have been forestalled.
Added to that, he’d forgotten his coupons.
The most hopeful prospect was a
gimlet-eyed bloke who came in and met
my gaze with one of equal intensity.
Getting the range at once, I concentrated
on him for several minutes, but was some-
what surprised to find myself in the act
of signing a hire-purchase agreement for
two gross assorted brushes, and managed
to jam his wavelength just in time.
Thinking that women’s reputedly
weaker intellect might prove more re-
“That's what I hate to see —a bloke lettin' his partner do all the work!"
ceptive, I next tried to get across a
message concerning groceries to a cur-
vaceous blonde who sent me an encourag-
ing smile across the Counter.
The difficulty with telepathy is to keep
your mind on the message in hand, as
I realised when a stinging right took me
between the eyes.
Plum.
<%• 4* 4* 4*
Rummy.
In early Sydney, when each “Chum”
Received his salary in rum.
A rise in wages proved a flop —
It only meant another drop.
Brian Bureau.
4* 4* 4* 4*. .
“A dress is something to be lived in.”
—“5. M. Herald.”
It’s certainly where a lot of modem
women hang out.
4- 4* 4 1 4*
The Double-Crossers.
Bertie was hurt about it —deeply hurt.
Not that he’d wanted the presidency
of the U.N.O. Assembly, though it
was logically his by right of —well, wasn’t
he Herbert Vere Evatt, who had been
elected by Herbert Vere Evatt as
Champion of the Small Nations, and
who had for so long represented Herbert
Vere Evatt in so distinguished a manner
in the countless verbal brawls of U.N.u:/
It wasn’t, either, as if that lofty dignity
he always maintained when embarrassing
Britain and the U.S.A. had been in any
way jeopardised in the few hours before
the vote had been taken.
Purely as a passing thought he had, on
meeting Mexico’s chief delegate in the
lobby on that vital morning, told him
confidentially that he considered Mexico s
bullfighters to be far superior to any,
even in Spain, and that a country which
could produce such matadors matadors
who, as he had heard, could throw the
bull with one hand while they slit its
throat with the knife all in 10 seconds—
must indeed have in it the elements ot
greatness. Such greatness, he considered,
should find its true expression in the
leadership of the Latin-Amencan Nations
—and that was no “bull.” He, the senor
doctor, would do his utmost to further
this worthy aspiration of so great a
nation as Mexico. .
A little further along Bertie had run
into the Nicaraguan delegate. To him he
had made known his sincere conviction
that a country like Nicaragua, which pro-
duced bananas of so divine a flavor, was
losing a wonderful opportunity. Its
obvious forte was the leadership of the
Latin-American bloc in the Assembly.
Nicaragua had in it the seeds of true
greatness, and it would be his, the senor
doctor’s, pleasure to further such a
natural desire for leadership.
A lesser man might have interpreted the
smirk with which this high praise was
received as an indication that the
Nicaraguan delegate would possibly re-
member it when casting his vote, but this
was assuredly far from the lofty mind of
the senor doctor.
On accosting the Costa Rican delegate
in the lobby just before the vote was to
be taken Bertie scrupulously avoided any
statement that might be interpreted as
tending to curry favor. All he said was
that he considered that Costa Rica’s
proud record of 11 successful revolutions
in a week proved beyond doubt that his,
the delegate’s, country was a truly great
one in whose sacred soil the seeds of
liberty flourished, and that such a
vigorous, vital nation rightly deserved
the high honor of leading that greatest of
all blocs the Latin-American.
To the delegate from the Dominican
Republic, casually met, Bertie, eager to
dispel any possible impression that he was
angling for a vote, had been curt almost
to the point of rudeness. All he could
bring himself to express .was his un-
bounded admiration for the magnificent
socialistic spirit of Santo Domingo and
Haiti alike, especially in their encourage-
ment of longer and better siestas and
a deeper spirit of mahana. He had been
greatly impressed with the manner in
which these typical Dominican traits
assisted the fulfilment of the policy of
“full employment.” The Dominican Re-
public, by pursuing such a vigorous
policy of enlightenment, progress and
emancipation, could, he felt with
great distinction fill its natural role as
leader of the Latin-Amferican nations, and
he, the senor doctor, would do his best to
further this natural aspiration.
Purely fortuitous had been Bertie’s
meeting with the delegate from Salvador.
He had seen Senor Miguel Dumbello
alone at coffee and had slipped into the
seat alongside him. Nothing he had
heard during all his visits to U.N.0.,
Bertie had confessed, had impressed him
so much as the brilliant speech made by
Senor Dumbello during the vital debate as
to whether the secretary of the Forms Sub-
Committee of the Ritual Auxiliary Com-
mittee of the Co-Optative Near-Com-
mittee of the Steering Committee should
be required at meetings to wear striped
trousers, morning coat and spats. Only
a distinguished representative of a really
great republic could have made such a
tremendous impact on the minds of the
assembled delegates. Bertie had insisted
that it would be fitting if the delegate,
with his unique gifts of intellect, were to
assume the leadership of all the Latin-
American nations under the overall
leadership, of course, of the senor doctor
himself. As he had left him Bertie fer-
vently hoped the delegate would not be
influenced by the sincere tribute he had
voiced in the casting of his vote.
* * * *
It was some little time after the leader
of the Brazilian delegation had been
elected President of the Assembly that
Bertie, mooching gloomily along the
lobbies where so lately he had been so
active, was passed hurriedly by several
broadly-smiling, swarthy little men in
sombreros with brightly-colored blankets
over their arms, all of them gleefully
waving cable forms, who greeted the
Also-Ran with a boisterous “Mennee
thanks, senor doctor.” The last one
was the mercurial delegate from Nicar-
agua, who rushed up to Bertie, and in his
joy kissed him on both cheeks.
“Eet ees ze ’appy day for Nicaragua,
no?” he said as he waved his cable form.
“Brazil she ’ave agree to tak’ one boat-
load of banana effry month. Igo to
inform my countrymen of the joyful news.
Caramba!” „
80.
Safety First.
“Girl walked home from aeroplane ride.”
— Headline.
It seems one Jasper Murgatroyd,
A man of decency devoid.
With honeyed words the lass decoyed
Aboard his private helicopter;
He parked it up aloft in space,
But when she sensed his motive base
And dodged his passionate embrace.
The villain ( literally ) dropped her.
Bitter the choice he thrust upon her,
You’d say, when nobly she preferred
A sticky death before dishonor . . .
Though this was scarcely what
occurred,
For, knowing Murgatroyd (the brute),'
She brought along her parachute.
P. M. LUSK.
Superfluous Advice.
ẁ
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Taxation and Enterprise
Case of a very unusual woman who
developed a particular process of manu-
facture just before the war.
By dint of imagination, determination
and energy she perfected her product until
it could compete with imported fines. At
first she made barely enough to keep
going, but she steadily improved her
methods and enlarged the scope of her
activities. When war came, and com-
petitive articles were excluded, she was
able to prove to a widening circle of
customers that her goods were equal to
the best imported.
With increased turnover and profits
came the heavy hand of the taxgatherer.
Thus, after providing Australians with
something badly needed, and as a reward
for over 10 years’ hard work, she has
been permitted to accumulate, after pay-
ing taxes, the magnificent capital of about
£4OOO. In one tracing year her profit was
little short of £6OOO, out of which tax
took £4500.
Of late Authority has dealt the woman
two more blows —arbitrary reduction of
prices and permitted imports of competi-
tive material. In the result she has been
obliged to disband trained staff and try
to carry on with a smaller turnover in
the hope that she may be able
to preserve some part of her business.
—Taurus (Vic.).
Red Tape
Last year a young friend of mine, a
solicitor, went to a country town to start
a practice. The district was swarming
with Italians and he thought he was on
a good thing, as he speaks their language
fluently. For the first few months he
did pretty well. Then one day a natural-
ised British subject came in to see about
getting a passport to visit his family in
Italy.
My friend had inquiries made in the
city and discovered that it was easy for
persons of Italian nationality to visit
Italy. Naturalised persons, the Customs
informed him, would have to get permis-
sion from the Italian authorities through
the British Embassy in Rome. At once he
dictated a letter and sent it off to Rome
by air mail. Within the next month he
had similar applications from three other
clients, each of which went by air mail.
Then in came another n.b.s. who was
in a desperate hurry to get away, as his
wife was ill in Italy. Some person in
Sydney had told him about the applica-
tion to Rome and said it could be done
by cablegram. My friend hurried down
to the post office and sent off an 80-word
wire which, with reply paid, cost his client
£5 10s. Four days later came the reply:
“Application should be made to Depart-
ment of External Affairs, Canberra.”
A little annoyed by this time my friend
wrote at once to External Affairs. After
waiting for a week for a reply he sent
an urgent wire. A week later he re-
ceived a reply to the effect that his letter
had been referred to the Department of
Immigration. He was advised by that
department that if he forwarded the
name and naturalisation number of each
applicant for a permit, the necessary
forms (in triplicate) would be dispatched
to him for signature and return to the
department, which would then submit
them to the Italian authorities through
the Australian authorities in London. He
sent the necessary particulars to Can-
berra without delay.
By this time his clients were getting
impatient, and he discovered that a report
was spreading among their compatriots
that he was no use to them because he
couldn’t get things done. Two weeks
after posting the particulars, being still
without the necessary forms, he sent an
urgent telegram insisting on an immedi-
ate reply. The forms arrived a week
later.
He wrote to his clients asking them to
call. They arrived overjoyed, thinking
that he had received their permits. He
had to tell them that he and they were
back at the beginning. The forms were
completed and returned to Canberra
within a week.
By this time my friend had just about
“had” country practice. The steady flow
of Italian clients had dwindled to a
trickle. Two months later, with his
clients still waiting for the permits, he
turned it in and returned to the city.
Three weeks after he had arrived back
he received a letter from the Customs,
readdressed to him from the country
town, advising him that the first
of the permits had been received from
Rome—through the Department of Immi-
gration at Canberra, of course.
Romulus (Q.).
Cost of Motoring
One of the great problems facing
clerics, commercial travellers and others
who regularly use cars (B. 3/9/’47) is the
ever-mounting running cost. Before the
war repair work cost about a third of
what it costs now ; parts were readily
available and work was more efficient.
Under present conditions a car taken to
a garage for repairs that once took two
or three days is there for weeks.
The worst feature is that the car is
steadily wearing out and cannot be re-
placed. The financial loss in trading-in
is tremendous unless one is willing to
deal in the blackmarket, and the capital
needed to buy a new car is beyond the
average man.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.)
Mice Plagues
There is no need for research (B.
3 191 ’47); the cause is well known. Con-
trary to a popular belief, field and house
mice are one and,the same species—the
former can become the latter or vice
versa. It’s all a matter of weather and
food supplies. Mice have gone wild in
Australia in the same way as rabbits, but,
"It’s raining outside!”
unlike rabbits, they must eat at frequent
intervals in cold weather to keep alive —
their tiny bodies lose heat so quickly
that they die in a few hours if kept
without food.'
Normally, every winter sees a heavy
mortality among the mice which have
bred up during the summer, but every
now and then comes a mild winter during
which some form of grass, wattle, clover
or similar edible seed is abundant. Big
stacks of wheat, without any form of
mouse-proofing and left standing for a
long time, create the same conditions.
In those circumstances mice, which
breed much faster than rabbits, become
a plague in a few months.
It should be possible, however, to keep
tabs on areas where mice are liable to
attain plague proportions and thus stop
the plague by a poisoning campaign—
if some form of bait can be evolved
which would kill them without slaughter-
ing birds too. — Bogaduck (S.A.).
Marriage
Possibly the most unnecessary piece
of legislation ever to be submitted to a
State Parliament, and one which may
prove to be exceedingly harmful, is that
proposed by N. S. Wales Attorney-
General Martin to enable married women
to claim any balance of housekeeping
money as their own personal property.
As one alleged to be a master of psy-
chology, Mr. Martin should surely realise
the devastating effects that could arise
from the abuse of such latitude by un-
scrupulous wives.
It is not hard to imagine the thrifty
zeal with which expenditure on meals
pould be brought to the irreducible
minimum by such women. Spending for
comforts in the home would be of
secondary importance to saving for per-
sonal extravagances, entertainment away
from the home and extra dress money for
such forms of amusement.
No one should know better than Mr.
Martin the alarming increase in divorce
proceedings, a large percentage of which
is due to incompatibility of tempera-
ment —in plain language selfishness. Any
further inducement to selfishness on either
side is simply catering for morfc home-
wrecking. Interference between man and
wife is dangerous at any time, and
legalised interference is madness. —
C. E. T. (N.S.W.).
The splitting of matrimonial atoms has
reached a chain reaction stage which
threatens to reduce millions of homes in
many lands to ruins. Groups of psy-
chologists are acting as clinics to avert
the wholesale disruption of marriage
vows, but they are dealing only with the
“adjustment” of pairs who have allegedly
been “made one.” They fail to see that
the “putting asunder” is the result of
world-wide causes and decades of social
change and experiment.
The equalising of the sexes is destroy-
ing their cohesion —two equally charged
bodies always repel each other. The
athlete who marries an Amazon cannot
exercise a protective instinct towards a
mate who is neither clinging nor depend-
ent. A female sfergeant-major is conceiv-
able, but she could not be kissable, how-
ever handsome or efficient.
To be “as gods” was the sinful wish of
thfe first pair. To be as men is the mis-
taken ambition of the modern daughter
of Eve. In the beginning man was made
male and female —bread-winner and
baby-minder. To alter or equalise the
positions may be good politics, but it is
bad biology, violating the command-
ment, “Multiply and replenish the earth.”
A house divided into two equal parts is
not a home. Equal careers, pastimes
and pay cease to revolve round the cradle,
which is the true centre of a home and
the only legal or religious reason for
marrying or giving in marriage.—
Cupidity (S.A.).
The Banks
As a trading-bank officer, I was amazed
at the airy unconcern with which the
Prime Minister assured Caucus that the
pension rights of bank staffs would be
“protected” under nationalisation. Be-
fore carrying his wildcat scheme to its
present stage, Mr. Chifley might have in-
vestigated the subject sufficiently to realise
that the pension funds of existing trading
banks, built up principally from salary
contributions, are in no sense the property
of the banks concerned, but are vested in
trustees appointed by, and responsible
to, the individual contributors.
In these circumstances, it is difficult to
see how control of these funds could
pass into the “protection” of the Com-
monwealth. Surely the Constitution,
whatever general powers over banking it
may unfortunately contain, does not
authorise the Government to seize the
trust funds of employees.
If nationalisation is to be forced on a
protesting community, then Mr. Chifley
can be assured that many bank officers
will gladly accept their share of their
particular superannuation fund and make
a fresh start in search of whatever free-
dom may be left in this regimented
country. But, when the time comes, they
will receive their contributions back from
the trustees they have elected and not at
the whim of the Commonwealth Superan-
nuation Board.— Thirty-Five (N.S.W.).
Control of a nation’s credit is a power
terrifying in its implications as well as in
its operations.
There is no support for any theory
that the Government, if it assumed such
power, Would use it for the benefit of the
community to any great extent. Govern-
ment-owned monopolies are never any
better, and almost invariably worse, than
privately-owned monopolies. The post-
office, that Admirable Crichton of nation-
alisation, is nothing but a vast taxation
machine, shamelessly exploiting small
“agencies” to do a large proportion of
its country trade.
Finance is not a peculiarly Australian
matter. It is international, and we cannot
pursue our course unaided on our own
little roundabout. Banking is an all-
pervading international force, and we are
fooling ourselves if we believe that we
can break such an organisation by any
tinpot parlor-pink plan of socialisation
in this country. We will soon feel the
pinch if we step out of line—R.H.G.
(W.A.).
In the course of his reply to thfe no-
confidence motion by Menzies, Chifley
said:
Is it suggested that it is a dictatorship
when you can ride only on a Government
tram or use a Government post-office?
Well, both are Government monopolies
and monopolies are blood-brothers to
dictatorships.
Chifley could not, however, have made
a more unfortunate comparison. Most
Government-owned trams are in the red
for hundreds of thousands and their de-
crepit and outmoded rattle-traps give a
shocking service. And all they can do
about it is slug the passenger. He can’t
make an effective protest for the simple
reason that he, as Chifley says, “can ride
only on a Government tram.” All he
can do is lament that he is forced to
support a business whose fatuous remedy
for increasing inefficiency is increased
prices.
The post-office is from the same stable.
Because it has a monopoly it makes
thumping profits by charging what it
likes, even to extorting exorbitant rates
on parcels of food for hungry, war-tom
Britons. Its inclinations towards dictator-
ship emerged very clearly when it assumed
the functions of the Courts and tried to
administer summary justice by depriving
a man of his telephone and, thereby, his
livelihood. As for efficiency, consider
the current abnormal delay in delivery of
letters and telegrams ; the difficulty of get-
ting a phone, even with a priority;
the long queues at stamp and other
counters in any large post-office.
Chifley could not have presented a
better case against nationalisation than
he did by promising that his one big Gov-
ernment bank would be like the tram-
ways and the P.M.G.’s Department.—
Youanmi (W.A.).
Mr. Chifley expects profits from the
banks to provide interest on Common-
wealth bonds issued to shareholders as
compensation. At present, trading bank
profits could well look after such a
charge, but they will soon disappear when
the banks come under Government con-
trol.
Consider the lavish- manner in which
existing branches of the Common-
wealth Bank are conducted. The first
step in establishing a recently-opened
branch in a country town was the acqui-
sition of a freehold site at £sooo—about
£2OOO more than it was worth. Then a
little pre-fab. building arrived and was
placed on another site altogether and one
on which rent is presumably paid. Cost
of this rabbit hutch would be about
£lOOO.
Fittings and furniture, including two
typewriters and two telephones, meant
another £3OO. And a house for the man-
ager a further £2OOO. Septic tank and
hot-water systems—luxuries beyond most
other citizens —were installed and the
house repainted and redecorated. Total
expenditure so far must be in the vicinity
of £9OOO.
Staff? No trouble about that. Let’s
start with four men —like branches of the
other banks which have been here for
90 years. Business obtained? One or
two very trifling accounts, a Government
account and the savings bank from the
post office. Hitherto the savings bank
has been handled quite comfortably by
one postal official who had other duties
as well. — Harry the Horse (N.S.W.).
Show Week
After a recess of nine years Adelaide
put on its record show of agricul-
tural and industrial products. It was a
convincing argument in favor of private
enterprise ; a huge shop window showing
what can be done when the profit motive
and the competitive spirit are given free
play.
Without the incentive of prizes and
financial rewards such a display of talents
and achievements would be impossible.
Ambition and determination to beat the
other fellow in strength, speed, skill and
invention are the secret of success in bring-
ing together the best that Australians can
grow, breed, make or do in one vast en-
closure for the admiration and education
of the public.
The urge to excel for purposes of
private gain or glory may be selfish, but
it is the mainspring of all the human
progress and endeavor of which the Show
is a measure and a record. Take away
the prizes, the plaudits and the advertis-
ing value of the competitions and ex-
hibits and the Show would cease to exist,
or the judges and public would be pre-
sented with a dead level of products and
performances that would neither excite
interest nor raise the standard of excel-
lence in any department. — Sport (S.A.).


The British Housewife
As a British cook and housewife, I
have never read such nonsense as the
remarks attributed to Francis and Katha-
rine Drake in “Uncabled Additions (B.
28 / 5/’47):
Hobbled by the fat famine, British cook-
ing has deteriorated to an all-time 10w ....
for seven years families have faced each
other across unending vistas of boiled
mutton, boiled fish, boiled potatoes, boiled
cabbage, boiled Brussels sprouts, boiled
fruit and boiled pudding. In the shortage
of sugar and seasoning, nothing has taste.
The amounts stated are correct —they are
painfully small —but please don’t think
that we housewives of Britain are such
incompetent fools as to be unable to
devise better meals than those described.
Second helpings, I admit, are rarely
to be had and the first helping is not on
a pre-war scale, but our standard of
cooking has of necessity risen, not fallen.
We get tried recipes from the Ministry
of Food and those of us who live in the
country with our own gardens have fresh
vegetables to gather just before cooking.
I can assure you that the “unending vista
of boiled foods” does not obtain in the
average household.
Our standard of preserving, bottling
and canning is a very high one, and our
knowledge of handicrafts and all that
pertains to a good and experienced house-
wife can compare with any you choose
to mention.
Our lunch consists of roast veal (lib.
14oz.—week’s ration for three people),
baked potatoes, stuffed custard marrow,
gravy forcemeat balls, currant jelly, com-
pote of plums and coffee. Most of it is
out of the garden, and the larder is a
bit empty by Tuesday. Still it is c not
“boiled food.”
Incidentally, may I express our heart-
felt gratitude to all those in Australia
and the other Dominions who, in war
and in peace, have so generously helped
us with parcels and gifts. It is hard to
put into words what this has meant to
all of us —the feeling that somebody
cared to help. It is the gifts of soap or
fruit from those W Is. who are linked
with us overseas that touch us —the parcel
from Sydney or Brisbane from the
cousins we know, the.pleasure with which
the postman greets us with “another
parcel from Australia.” The postman
must have his share and a piece of soap
is given into his hands. He is delighted
and goes off beaming.— Dorothy M.
Carter (Dorset, England).
Price Control
It is not so simple as it sounds. A
factory owner employs, say, three men.
By Ministerial “direction” each man must
enter on a special job card the amounts
of timber, glue, screws, varnish, sand-
paper, etc., used on each unit, and the
number of minutes taken to complete
each operation. Then the boss must
enter on another set of cards the totals
of these details, with the analysed cost of
time and materials, adding the propor-
tionate cost of “overhead” to arrive at
the legally permissible margin of profit.
These cards must be specially printed,
signed, indexed, kept up to date and
readily available for the inspectors who
“control” the prices.
No account of the time lost in the
form-filling and calculating is taken, but
it must be enormous at the bench. And
the task keeps the boss busy during his
evenings and week-ends. To employ a
qualified clerk for the work would absorb
most of the profit. And all this on top
of all the form-filling for many other
control departments.
Time is the essence of most contracts,
including that between employer and em-
ployee. It can easily be demonstrated by
simple arithmetic that the. overall expense
of supporting a standing arid sitting army
of non-productive inspectors and other
“public servants” has raised prices gener-
ally to the extent of one-third. As the
army is increasing every day, using up
man hours and manpower while hinder-
ing the genuine workers, consumers must
pay more and more for the privilege of
having prices “controlled.” Houses
(S.A.).
“Helping the Worker”
Before unionists rush to the press
blaming employers for causing strikes
they should recall the late John Curtin’s
denunciation in 1942 of those who ab-
sented themselves from work or went on
strike for frivolous causes. Mr. Curtin
said they were as much against Australia
as the sworn enemies of the nation. In
his “Labor Saved Australia” speech on
June 16, 1946, Mr. Chifley said “Indus-
trial stoppages for trivial reasons* in-
cluding inter-union disputes,” were “a
travesty of democracy.”
An inter-union dispute caused a pro-
longed hold-up at Mort’s Dock (Syd-
ney), the long foundry dispute in Vic-
toria had an inter-union squabble origin,
and Sydney was left without gas through
a similar cause.
No section of the community is more
responsible for current shortages than
the union section. Most industries depend
on coal, and some mine-owners installed
ma chines to increase production, only to
find “in some collieries a ‘darg,’ as it is
called, is placed on machines whereby
their output is limited to absurd quanti-
ties much below their capacity.”
Early in August The Bulletin gave
figures from Mr. Morrison, chairman
of the Stevedoring Industry Commis-
sion, showing that the loading rate per
hour by wharf gangs was now only 50
per cent, of that of 1938-39. In N. S.
Wales brickies now set only 300 bricks
a day compared with 900 jn 1938. That,
together with coal and steel strikes, has
contributed to the high cost of housing.
In what way does this help workers?—
F. D. (N.S.WO.
“Tools of Trade”
I have a good job as a newspaperman,
but had it not been for the 1914-18 war,
two frontier wars and three wounds, I
might have had a better one. The 1939-
45 didn’t improve my physique, although
I did manage to get an “X” number, but
when I was discharged I was advised to
take an outdoor job. I did so on lesser
pay, easier hours and a more or less
come-as-you-go understanding. 1 still
had to produce the goods, however, and
hand cramp necessitated a typewriter to
do my job and to supplement my income
with short stories arid the like. I stated
that in my application for £lO grant for
“tools of trade.”
The first letter in reply said my claim
“ The old horse ain't so good ’ smornin ', Silas."
was washed out. I accepted that. Then
came another letter inviting me to sub-
stantiate my claim, I did so, saying that
my typewriter cost me* £22 2s. I asked
for a personal interview- to avoid further
correspondence. The second letter, it
appears, should never have gone out.
My case was a washout from the start
because “You get a good salary.” I can
do without that ten pounds in a pinch,
but if I am entitled to it, why should my
salary be a bar? —5 G. R. (Vic.).
An Australian House
What could be better than the single-
storied type of Colonial Georgian house
built by the earliest settlers? Though
differing in detail, these houses are gener-
ally hip-roofed with a central hall run-
ning from front to rear, a long verandah
in front and, often, another at the rear.
Sometimes verandahs completely enclose
the house.
Simple and economical, yet pleasing
because of its fine proportions, this style
is well suited to the Australian climate
and thoroughly in harmony with the
scenery. It allows for many variations
within the limits of the general verandah
type. The generous verandah space is
particularly useful when extra sleeping
accommodation is needed.
Here we have the germ of a really
national style, yet for many years Aus-
tralian architects have favored the bunga-
low and Californian Spanish for small
houses. Now those who call themselves
advanced are championing the inappro-
priate “modernist” house.— Sam (N.S.W.)
Juries
Jurors (B. 13/8/’47) don’t need to
worry themselves about the law at all.
It is the duty of the presiding Judge to
give them a clear explanation of the law
governing the case in hand and they
must accept his version of it. Counsel on
either side has the right to ask the Judge
to redirect the jury if it is contended that
his direction is incorrect or insufficient,
and that right is frequently exercised.
Having had the Judge’s direction as to
the law, all the jurors have to do is to
decide from the evidence given what the
facts were. It is not always the man
best versed in law who makes the best
job of determining the truth from a mass
of conflicting evidence.
After long experience with juries of all
sorts on a wide variety of trials, I have
concluded that, rather than knowledge
of law, jurors most require (1) full appre-
ciation of and respect for the oath they
take as jurors and (2) commonsense and
power of observation. The first requi-
site is too often lacking. In some districts
in Queensland it became impossible to
obtain convictions for certain crimes no
matter how strong the evidence against
the accused, and Circuit Court sittings
were suspended there or the trials were
set down in other districts.
Rank stupidity is often found, too. I
once secured an unexpected acquittal in
an embezzlement case involving a large
sum. Eight years later I was told by one
of the jurors that the accused had been
acquitted because the jury had concluded
that the auditor, called by the Crown, had
been the culprit. This, because the man
had admitted in cross-examination that
he could not swear that the accused had
stolen any money at any time but that,
in the course of a five-day examination
of the books, he had found that over a
stated period there had been a total
short-banking of the amount stated in the
indictment. —X. L. (Q.).
“Ward’s Wards”
My own observations when attached
to a large N.G. hospital prompt me to
say that “Momokan” (B. 3/9/’47) has
a much more intelligent appreciation
than “R.W.” (B. 17/9/’47) of the N.G
native problem.
The influx of troops into N.G. upset
a routine that, by and large, made for
the contentment and wellbeing of the
natives. Most plantation owners and
managers were men imbued with the true
pioneer spirit who, despite risks of disease
and lack of many amenities, found the
way of life to their liking. After many
years’ experience they had a true under-
standing of native psychology and were
genuinely concerned with native welfare.
Ninety-nine per cent, of the troops
were concerned only with their personal
problems and the “boong” was merely
part of a transitory landscape. The
natives in turn received many wrong im-
pressions as to how the white man lived
in the outside world.
The stage was thus set for the post-
war period, when former Government
servants and visionaiy missionaries were
able to air their views and receive a
ready audience from Mr. Ward, who
apparently believes that disruption is
progress. There is little chance that the
native will understand what it is all
about, and there will be an eventual re-
turn to conditions much as before.
Incidentally, Mr. Ward was recently
reported as saying that “they [private
banks] must learn that people do not
want to return to what they call the
good old days before the war,” Aus-
tralian ex-servicemen and war widows
and millions of others the world over
would be very glad to return to those
“good old days.”—A. W. C. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
“Jaques” (B. 3/9/’47) holds the usual
view on stopping distances. At 30 m.p.h.
100 p.c. braking power will give a stop-
ping distance of 30ft. This is a retarding
force equal to the weight of the car.
On dry concrete with a Tapiey meter, the
record braking distance was 21ft. from
30 m.p.h. in a Hotchkiss car. Average
figure for American cars is about 35ft.,
plus “reaction” distance. At 60 m.p.h.
100 per cent, braking is 120 ft. Average
efficiency is 75 per cent., or 160 ft., plus
reaction distance. If I could not pull a
car up in less than 440 ft. on dry concrete
—stated the “minimum” distance by “J.”
—l’d give up driving. About 200 ft. would
be nearer the mark with a reasonable
driver and fair brakes. — Jehu (Vic.).
Mr. Chifley’s handout of £165,000
appearance money to wharflaborers for
the six months ended June 30, 1947, took
me back to a rainy Saturday morning last
February. That morning I heard my
tobacconist caustically chipping a union-
ist in working clothes. He explained
later that the man was a wharf-
laborer. “I’ve seen him every Saturday
morning for years and this is the first
time he’s had his working clothes on. It’s
raining and he knows he won’t have to
work, so he puts on his old clothes and
goes down to the depot to make him-
self good for twelve-bob appearance
money.”— Domino (N.S.W.).
A bureaucrat I know has to submit a
written claim for reimbursement if he
spends sixpence on fares while on duty.
The claim goes to his immediate depart-
mental superior, then to the accountant
and then to the supreme head for final
approval. If that is forthcoming, the
s.h. endorses the paper and returns it to
the accountant, who draws and pays the
cash. At a conservative estimate, the
public must pay several shillings in wages
to those who keep an official eye on the
humble sixpence.— Doro (S.A.).
Today “leg art” in the flesh and print
is naked and unashamed. Story illustra-
tions, comic strips and commercial art
of all kinds tend more and more to a
strip-tease technique which leaves as
little as possible of the limbs and torso
to the imagination. It is both puzzling
and amusing to read about the strictures
of film censors regarding the limit of the
neck line while the leg line and the
meridian line are allowed so much lati-
tude and longitude in polite society and
in respectable family magazines.—Ax a
Glance (S.A.).
Pensioners who have to pay rent (B.
10/9/’47) no doubt find it bard to make
ends meet, but only a proportion of them
are in that situation. An old-age or
invalid pensioner living with relatives and
making but a modest contribution to
household expenses should have plenty
of pocket money. Old-age-pension home
owners, as many are, should also find the
pension more than sufficient. Why should
such people have their pensions raised
appreciably because some others have
to pay rent? — Den (N.S.W.).
The Taxation Department in Victoria is
in a sorry state* with 50,000 assessments
for the year ended June 30, 1946, still to
be issued. That might appeal to some,
but take the case of a man who worked
in a couple of jobs in that year at heavy
tax on high wages and who has been out
of work in between times. He’s invariably
entitled to a refund when his assessment
is issued, but he’s got Buckley’s chance
of getting it within reasonable time. One
such case I know is entitled to a refund
of £5O. His wife is expecting her first
and the cash would be most useful, but
the department has lost his file. All
evidence of payment in the “Group
System” is available, but no dough is
forthcoming until the papers are found.
— First Up (Vic.).
I know of many established doctors
who, on coming from the services, have
given up good private practices and gone
in with Repat. (B. 10/9/’47). And I’ve
seen them average 12 hours a day (ex-
cluding emergency calls) and go for two
and three weeks without a day off. If
that is waiting “until something more
enduring comes along” then I’ll admit
that I’m “off the beam” —and I’ll eat any
stray hats that “R.W.” happens to have
lying around. — Ad Rem (Vic.).
Extract from a Westralian “Hansard”:
The Minister for Lands; Do you stand
for preference to returned soldiers?
Hon. A. H. Panton : No, for preference to
unionists, and the Minister knows it. I told
the R.S.L. in 1919 that, so long as it kept
the organisation apart from political mat-
ters, I would assist, and I did so for 20
years.
A pity that he hasn’t the same sentiments
about unionists. —P. D. (W.A.).


TO MB AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
MIA
/
The “MARS’*
No. 4 Universal Miller
Totally enclosed, built-in motor,
quick action traversing, modern
design.
m
m
m
■
The “MARS”
14'tnch LATHE
16ft. overall length for Surfacing.
Sliding and Screw-cutting.
HI"
■t>*
rii
v
The “MARS”
11-Inch LATHE
Precision built with removable
"Mars" twin speed overhead unit
drive.
I
Licensed Manufacturers in
Queensland of "Meehanite" Metals
The “MARS”
14-inch LATHE
27ft. Gap Bed overall length, to
suit heavy engineering industries
and ship-building yards.
Get full details of machine tools shown
here as well as Lathes to 10in.)
Shaper. Radial Drill, Boring Mill and Planer
from agents listed here or from the manu-
facturers.
All details and illustrated literature from:—
N.S.W.; Thomas Herbert & <£o. Ply, Ltd.. 133 Clarence Street. Sydney.
VICTORIA: Servian Machine Tools (Aust.) 343 a Sydney Road. Brunswick,
Melbourne.
W.A.; The Western Machinery Co. Ltd.. Perth.
TASMANIA ; Charles Davis Ltd.; Elizabeth Street, Hobart
N.Z.; Motor Specialities Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland.
CALCUTTA: Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE: R. S. Mehta & Co. Ltd., Alii Chambers, Medows Street,
Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG and SHANGHAI: The East Asiatic Co. Ltd.
Distinctive features
ofi all “MARS”
MACHINE TOOLS
ACCURACY Built to recognized
and certified standards of accuracy
—BALANCE —AII necessary revolv-
ing parts are Dynamically Balanced
—FINISH —AII surfaces are Machine
Ground MATERIALS Finest
Matured High Test Alloy Castings
throughout SMOOTH RUNNING—
All Gear Teeth are generated
VERSATILITY All lathes have
generous Detachable Gap Bridge.
"MARS" Lathe Lead Screws are
cut from a certified and tested
Master Lead Screw
mm
*w
(f)
o
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGES!. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advt
