

The House of Seppelt ... producers of
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3517
Wednesday, July 9, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CASTLEDERMOTT’S ROUND TOWER EXAMPLES IRELAND'S ANCIENT FORTS
OITUATED in an old cemetery close to the ruins of Castle-
dermott Abbey, this round tower is one of the finest remain-
ing specimens of this kind of stronghold. Although of
Mediterranean origin, there are more round towers in Ireland
than elsewhere in Europe, and notable towers still stand at
Kildare, Taghadoe, Killashee, Oughterard and Old Kilcullen,
but the tower of Castledermott especially well illustrates the old
rhyme:
The pillar towers of Ireland, how wondrously they stand,
By the lake and rushing rivers through the valleys of our land,
In mystic file throughout the isle they lift their heads sublime;
These grey old pillar temples, these conquerors of time.
O, may they stand forever while one symbol doth impart,
To the mind one glorious vision or one proud throb to the heart,
While the breast needeth rest, may these grey temples last,
Bright prophets of the future, as preachers of the past.


df
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
IQP Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address \
g.B. 147 AGE
The Red Page
MONTGOMERY.
Since he was brought to Tasmania at
the age of two years and lived there till
he was 13, when Bishop Montgomery
was recalled to England, it would be
pleasing to hold the indefinable spirit of
Tasmania responsible for Bernard Mont-
gomery’s extraordinary career.
The Welsh, no doubt, would protest,
for, after Roger de Montgomery the
founder of the family, had done doughty
deeds with his lance at Hastings, it was
in Wales that he received his reward in
the form of large estates. The Scots, too,
could sound the war-pipes, for a Robert
Montgomery was prominent in that king-
dom in'the 12th century. Then, since the
family migrated to the north of Ireland,
from where Robert Montgomery, the
Field Marshal’s grandfather, went to play
a distinguished part in quelling the Indian
Mutiny, the Irish, too, must have their
say. And Bishop Montgomery, who lived
near Kennington Oval and wote a lively
book about cricket, an old copy of
which was reviewed on the Red Page a
year or so ago, might fairly be claimed
as English by adoption.
Nevertheless, if early influences count
for anything, you could make out a case
for Tasmania. Even in the rather sketchy
and remote account of the family’s years
at Hobart in Alan Moorehead’s Mont-
gomery (Hamish Hamilton ; Angus and
Robertson) it is made clear that the
Montgomery boys rode and walked the
bush, and boiled the billy. And no man
who has boiled the billy will go far wrong
in life. The family grew to like Aus-
tralia, regretted the Recall to England, and
it was necessity rather than choice that
prevented Bernard from becoming a pupil
at St. Peter’s in Adelaide, for which he
had been entered, Moorehead writes of
the return to England:
They were hardly prepared for the life
of an English public school. They were
“colonials.” Neither of them had been to
a public school except for a few months.
They were strong swimmers and runners.
They had grown sunburnt and tough in the
Australian bush.
The theory is tempting. And perhaps
Australia may indeed claim some of the
credit for Montgomery. The only flaw
in the argument is that there are seven
million other Australians and none of us,
whatever else we may have done, has
become, in Churchill’s words, “the Com-
mander who marched from Egypt
through Tripoli, Sicily and southern Italy,
and through France, Belgium, Holland
and Germany to the Baltic and the Elbe
without losing a battle or even a serious
action.”
Moorehead, seeking to explain this
phenomenon, advances a theory quite
as implausible as the claim that
might be made for Tasmania and much
less appealing:
The truth probably was that they were
all extremely high-spirited Irish children,
and their mother found it necessary to
invoke a series of drastic measures to keep
them in order. They certainly stood in
awe of her, and with Bernard, possibly the
most sensitive of them all, the effect went
deeper. He began to conceive that life
was simply an unending struggle, a con-
stant pitting of oneself against superior
force. One was hemmed in. One was
opposed. One had to break out.
This, it is true, is a convenient theory.
But it proves only one thing—how
stultifying an effect the theories of Freud
have had upon the present generation of
writers. For all right-minded boys have
rebelled from time to time against their
parents: but not many of them come to
wear “some thirty ribbons, in all, in a
solid plate of color on his battle-dress.”
And, in fact, though he tries to cling to
the theory throughout the biography,
Moorehead has obviously failed to con-
vince himself that Montgomery’s happy
childhood was as unhappy as it ought to
have been to explain why he became one
of the great generals of history.
The Freudian moonshine is not, how-
ever, as misleading as one might expect
in this book; for, because he recounts
straightforwardly the facts of Mont-
gomery’s career and personal life, Moore-
head inevitably presents, up to a point,
exactly the narrative that is called for: a
study of the single-mindedness of genius.
Montgomery is a book that one would
have liked to have seen written by Charles
Morgan, who has written several novels
and essays on the theme of genius, or by
Thomas Mann, who analysed Goethe’s
“singlemindedness,” and both of whom,
when Moorehead is a little puzzled by the
simplicity of Montgomery’s utterances,
his clear and patient “truisms,” would
have recalled that a great deal of Shak-
speare can also be termed “platitude.”
Whether it is a literary genius saying that
Men must endure
Their going hence, even as their coming hither,
or a military genius saying, as Mont-
gomery does in the opening of his
pamphlet Principles of War, “A war is
won by victories in battles,” the great
truths are always simple and obvious.
But when all is muddle and confusion,
it takes a clear and a firm brain to see
the obvious, to say it and to act on it.
Men without genius, muddled men, might
believe, for instance, or act as if they
believed that morale is maintained by
fervent political speeches, by patriotic
performances at the music-halls or over
the radio, even by strikes in munition
factories; and all this may be half-true ;
but Montgomery goes straight to the
fundamentals:
Morale is the most important single
factor in war. The surest way to obtain
high morale is by success in battle.
The danger of writing a study of single-
mindedness, as, with a considerable de-
gree of understanding but largely by a
sort of inevitable accident, Moorehead
has done, is that the author himself is
likely to fall «into a singleness of mind.
Genius, considered as the naked force,
is severe and cold ; and, affected by their
own themes, Morgan’s essays tend to
severity, even dulness, as does Moore-
head’s biography.
Having imprisoned himself in a kind
of essential glumness by his Freudian
concept, Moorehead seems to have been
hampered a second time by the fact that
Montgomery’s father was a bishop. On
the whole the father is portrayed only as
a churchman, the biographer seeming
unable to admit, with Trollope, that even
bishops are human: and that this par-
ticular bishop, in fact, wrote a book
about cricket. And when, tracing the
father’s influence, Moorehead brings this
same attitude of mind to the portrayal
of the soldier, there seems to be an undue
emphasis on Montgomery’s asceticism.
Can a man with a complete absence of
emotion “decide quite bluntly and simply
to get married” and then, two pages
further on, “fall deeply in love”?
It seems that Moorehead, at the mercy
of abstract conceptions of character, is
unwilling to admit any of those human
inconsistencies which, in a genius as in
other men, enliven, mellow, and even, a
little, confuse the pattern of a life. There
is a great deal, it is true, about Mont-
gomery’s clashes with military men and
politicians—the sometimes surprising and
humanly very interesting effects of single-
mindedness in conflict with other minds.
But other human traits are ignored or
denied, sometimes contradictorily. In a
note on Montgomery’s schooldays
Moorehead says “he had shown even less
than the normal schoolboy’s interest in
reading, music, painting pr any of the
arts” ; and, even when it appears directly
to conflict with the facts, the biographer
attempts to maintain that as one of the
keynotes of Montgomery’s character
throughout his life. It is not easy to
suppose that a man who married an
artist and who invited Augustus John to
paint his portrait and who, dissatisfied
with the result, then went to Frank Salis-
bury, is entirely uninterested in painting.
Similarly, the man Moorehead depicts as
not interested in natural beauty is shown
“admiring the view” on page 169 —ad-
mittedly a view animated by the invasion
of Italy—and the man depicted as not
interested in books is said on page 241
to read “the usual run of novels and
latest books.” One would like to know
the titles.
All the way through the biography,
indeed, there is lack of precise personal
information ; particularly of direct quota-
tion from Montgomery's public and
private utterances. Often Moorehead
does quote; but more often still he turns
the spoken word into indirect speech, or
merely summarises and comments. The
inevitable result is too much Moorehead
and not enough Montgomery. Not that
the author has had the slightest intention
of intruding; but he presents Mont-
gomery in the light of his own limited
analysis, filtering his subject, as it were,
through his own mind---which is honest,
forthright, broadly capable, and rather
dull. What Moorehead neglects almost
entirely is the very thing that, next to his
genius, shows most strongly in all Mont-
gomery’s speeches—his humor.
It is humor of a quiet kind, realistic
and sometimes grim:
“I did not expect for one moment that
the enemy would attack us. It seemed
absurd. But he has done it and- we must
show our gratitude in no uncertain way.”
But it is also a profoundly civilised sort of
humor, and, rounding the hard edges of
his personality and turning war, in the last
analysis, into a kind of ferocious game ;
and it is to be observed almost every
time Montgomery speaks. It is the human
element that mellows the cold force of
his genius, and the immediate source of
his tremendous popularity with his
soldiers and throughout the Empire.
Moorehead concludes his analysis by
comparing Montgomery with Mahatma
Gandhi, noting, almost as an after-
thought, Montgomery’s “dry sense of
humor” and saying that Gandhi has the
same. There may be something in the
comparison ; but Gandhi has yet to be
heard saying anything like “Together we
will hit the enemy for ‘six,’ right out of
North Africa.”
Moorehead is not a biographer.
Though he is faithful and painstaking it
is impossible to accept his book as a
full portrait of Montgomery, except ac-
cidentally, as it were, and by implication ;
by reading between the lines. In a
journalistic way it is well enough ; more
than that, perhaps, when one considers
the difficulties of dealing with a living
man . . . especially a Field Marshal.
Where the book is more than merely
adequate is in its descriptions of Mont-
gomery’s campaigns, in Moorehead’s re-
buttals of the inaccuracies of various
American journalists chiefly Ralph
Ingersoll—and in his account, tactful,
realistic and well-balanced, of the con-
flicts and difficulties in the High Com-
mand in France towards the end of the
war. It is not easy to make it clear to
a layman how a general and his troops
won a battle. Moorehead can do it.
It is more difficult still to write clearly
and compactly when a battle extends to
a campaign, a battlefield to a continent;
and it is supremely difficult to be tranquil
and detached when soldiers and poli-
ticians are tangled into complicated and
sometimes heated disagreement. But this
is Moorehead’s special field of military
journalism, and if, as a biography, the
book is only partly successful, as a history
of Montgomery’s campaigns, it is, in a
sound and sober way, admirable.
MONUMENTAL MASON.
This angel here is maybe to your liking.
Stand off a little till I shift the column —
You see, she is a lady, fit to weep
Above the headstones of the most dis-
cerning,
And many gentlemen have ordered copies.
Myself I like a cherub; here are several
Crowded together blowing trumps of
doom
And all at different angles.
Or a scroll say.
An urn, an hour-glass—for Eternity.
Or perhaps you’d like a book that’s laid
wide open
Inscribed with hopeful thoughts of the
Hereafter,
“Here Lies,” “Death Fetched Him” and
“Immortal Bliss”
Crowned with a wreath of everlasting
daisies.
A vault with “Fallen Asleep” above the
lintel,
Perhaps “Gone Before” and “He Awaits
Above”
Or “Dearly Loved” with your outstand-
ing virtues
Listed for precept —
I beg your pardon,
A wicked life! And various, violent sins !
ENGLAND,
Oh quite—no need to catalogue—of
course, \
1 understand. Well, perhaps a simple
slab ...
You’d like Satanic Figures—and some
Flames !
Well, bless me, quite irregular I’m afraid.
No, I regret, most definitely no.
I have a duty to the other bodies
And guard the dignity of my profession.
Indeed we are. Sir, in our little way
The last accountants of this earthly life;
All fathers, sisters, cousins, new-born
babes,
The wise and foolish, and the lost and
strayed,
I hold it in the cunning of my hand
To keep their memory from the rage of
time.
Oh, sinner, soldier, virgin, saint and thief
I keep your secrets and my mouth is
dumb,
Only my hand is audible and spells
Hie Jacet Rose and Harry, Luke and Tom.
Come moss, come lichen, fire and flood
and time
I turn all weathers like a sculptured saint
And intercede for human frailty
With graven letters on a steadfast stone.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
"Great Expectations."
My first impression of Great Expecta-
tions when I read it more than 45 years
ago—having then as a literary repertoire
Lane’s Arabian Nights, Pilgrim’s Pro-
gress and Robinson Crusoe, with a few
odds and ends —was that it must be the
greatest book ever written. It was my
introduction to Dickens, contrived by a
mentor who knew her onions, and it
was the more vivid to me because I was
made to read it aloud.
Last week I read it again in the fine
Shepherd Press edition, illustrated by
Norman Lindsay, and, out of 45 years’
experience, appreciated the reason of its
greatness, and why it is perhaps the one
of Dickens’s novels which has not be-
come dated to some extent; why it has
the same sort of appeal to a boy of 10
as it has to a man in his fifties.
It is in the first place a magnificent
narrative, simple and direc£, reserving
its surprises with great cunning, timing
their arrival with perfect nicety for the
reader’s mood and producing them at
the point appropriate to his understand-
ing of the theme. Each character comes
on the stage at just the proper moment
when the reader is ready to receive him
or her. Each has been prepared for.
Each turns up with the air and seeming
of a long-lost friend with whose every
habit and humor the audience is familiar.
Uncle Pumblechook, Mrs. Gargery, the
immortal Joe, Wemmick, Jaggers—l have
known him in half-a-dozen corporeal
versions in as many police courts—the
ladies of the piece, and not least, Pip
himself, that embodiment of all the care-
less, drifting youth of numerous genera-
tions, are familiars. Trabb’s boy nearly
ran over me on a bicycle last night and,
turning his hopeful countenance to see
whether I had become a carcass, did
completely run over a small dog, to his
own utter confusion no less than the
dog’s.
The convict Magwitch might seem to
the modern mind perhaps the least be-
lievable character, but he is, nevertheless,
perhaps the most real and typical char-
acter in the book and his tale is truly
illuminative of the condition of the times.
Men of the Magwitch type were for
ever springing on pedestrians and
asking not too politely for some-
thing. It was not, indeed, in the
period of his younger days safe to travel
to Parramatta at night except in an armed
band, or from London across Hounslow
Heath without an outrider and a brace
of pistols. Changed industrial conditions
have modified the Magwitch breed —
simple fellows and therefore naturally
ferocious, as they are also kindly and
grateful after the manner of most wild
animals —who were only restrained from
carrying their operations to excess by
stern laws in which the legiron and the
lash, the hulk and the convict ship and
the gallows were the most prominent
ingredients.
The hulks and the marshes were very
real to the English of the Pip-Magwitch
generation. The law which prescribed
death for the lag who improperly re-
turned to his native country was a real
law, despite the fact that many a critic
has taken it to be something invented by
Dickens for his own purposes. It will
be found in the Act of 1823 which re-
organised transportation on the basis of
the Bigge Commission Report on New
South Wales and it was more than once
invoked, with dire effects to some
patriot whose longing for his native soil
moved him to return to it after he had
been banished for life for some such
crime as repeatedly cutting down other
people’s trees at night or stealing carp
out of a pond.
It seems almost inconceivable that such
things happened in an age in which our
grandfathers were young, but they did.
And from that point of view it appears
that it would not be a bad thing
if a few books of the period and style
of Great Expectations were set regularly
for school reading. Great Expecta-
tions has recently been filmed in Eng-
land ; but no talkie, however good, could
give more than snippings from the great
novel.
The Shepherd Press has produced a
beautifully bound book, a credit to Aus-
tralian publishing, the more welcome
since it has a feature not usually associ-
ated with Dickens —it is set up in a type
which can be read without a microscope
and is physically, as well as mentally,
easy to read. Only an art critic could
do justice to the illustrations the ■ tech-
nique by which Norman Lindsay is able
to make black-and-white seem to sparkle
with color and light so that his interiors,
especially, glitter with firelight and lamp-
light on furniture and crystal—but a
literary appraisal may at least note the
vividness of the portrayal of the charac-
ters. They are perfectly conceived in the
spirit of Dickens and, like the book itself,
alive.
EL VERDUGO.


,
- *
SALtSTORE'
F pO'
.6^'
i m
j 9 -
:■
f (
Bear Sl ’
Toe
.***• &
-yanS®
ii de V**^
s S*°® 0 tw
Mil
d©
of & °
3 ViO eS
daS
V OM a
;„t.> »"?.>•
or » w *' a „.»«
G^sia® 3 - ‘
46/'
fn°® 0 n tYl it i tan
cvioeS «»*“»•» 1
, c\ioe© % v.o-1
SnP er G jutd- a ° d 1113 e s ® ad ® alld e t^-VL d *itfi
.»! S “' S a „rti 'f w «/w
-«*at ..„
BT olS .° „n*d aXi
(*) > a 7ri= e
;&P S *
*i dda L. S ed
B °
_2.es
**°f de on *$J •<»■**■
13 n*» »?••»*.
•j>X*io© ’
and aada '
,r d
s©
ed
U©* 1
si
’ s
2,e©
no
or
£-oi d
® ad ® la at«
(S')
att d
SO
X©s
w n -
Shoe
Dept-
Gf° lX
V^ CQ ' 'Street-
neorg e
ni
®
4a
<D
©
©
'
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
'PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY
FOOTNOTE: —Our Mail Order Catalogue has just been publisred . . . the first
Mail Order Catalogue since 1941. Write for your copy to-day. You’ll find within
its pages a comprehensive list of all household and farm commodities.


r
c W.
mum :
r 2\
-.v.'•-;
J
N-" - —<
&ru&j oet/tifi cgf
ti&U d/ ohfac£ &£etc6ttO' / "
The morning shave with Gem keeps you clean all day
and evening. Why, because Gem shaves you at skin
level a true ‘professional* job. So be kind to your
skin too ! Buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
GEM
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
d
fd
f
Serve the ALL-ROUND Favourite
Serve (jfILBEYS allround
m.
V
S 7
m
m.^
0
m
%d
m
m
m
m -
m
>. : i
s 'is?
K.!
■ w - /i
jn a
me
y^-
4
-
~*-> .
*'€
>-
ii
B®^
v &p£ r,wy#
sp
ca
m»«r
HS®
tti
GILP
gS
The unanimous choke cf Gllbe/s is not alone
an acknowledgment of its excellence - it is a
recognition of the versatile character of this splendid
spirit. As the base of your most ingenious cocktails,
or the foundation of the finest long drinks, Gilbey s
is unquestionably the “all-round" spirit
Don’t say GIN say
ILBEYS
THE WORLD STANDARD BY WHICH Alt GINS ARE
JUDGED
e/g7B
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
fibili entirely in Australia by
’THIS
DUPLICATOR
I has all Ihe fines! features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing* Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
# SYDNEY AND BBISBANE "
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants,
To buy books by “Steele Rudd.”—4o4o.
English schoolgirl would like to receive used
Australian postage stamps from young Bulletin
readers.—4o39.
Information Sought.
(1) Nearest town or village to the site of the
trial atomic bomb in New Mexico? (2) Was it
dropped from a plane or attached to a tower ?
(3) Do rabbits of the Australian variety exist
in any part of the U.S.A. and thereabouts?
(1) Nearest town to the desert site of the
bomb test is Alamogordo, 60 miles distant. (2)
The bomb was exploded while attached to a
100 ft. steel and concrete tower. (3) Lepus
cuniculus, the common Australian rabbit, is
one of many varieties which exist in the United
States, though not in pest proportions except
in California and Idaho.
* * * ♦
(1) Length, breadth, gross tonnage and
draught of the Queen Mary and Queen
Elizabeth ? What is meant by (2) Gross register
tonnage, (3) Net register tonnage, (4) Displace-
ment tonnage and (5) Deadweight tonnage ?
(1) Queen Mary: Length 975 ft. 2in., breadth
118 ft. 6in., gross tonnage 81,235, and
draught 41ft. 4fin. Queen Elizabeth: Length
987 ft. 4in., breadth 118 ft. 6in., gross tonnage
85,000, and draught 41ft. 6)in. (2) The
total cubic contents of the ship expressed in
tons of 100 cubic feet. This total cubic con-
tent excludes temporary structures, specific
spaces above decks and spaces adapted only
for water ballast. Gross register tonnage dif-
fers slightly in different countries owing to
variations in the spaces exempted. This is
essentially a tonnage of measurement, not of
weight. (3) Also a tonnage of measurement, not
of weight. It is found by deducting from the
gross registered tonnage the cubic contents of
all spaces not available for cargo, e.g., spaces
for machinery, stores, quarters, etc. (4) The
weight of the ship, and exactly equals the
weight of water displaced by the ship. It is
usually given as loaded and light, representing
the weight of the ship loaded and empty. (5)
The ship’s carrying capacity. It represents the
maximum avoirdupois weight of cargo, pas-
sengers, fuel and stores a ship is capable of
carrying when loaded to its maximum draught.
It is the difference between the ship’s loaded
and light displacement.
* * * *
(1) Is there any age limit placed on intending
university students? (2) Is there any material
difference in the faculties of the universities
of Brisbane and Sydney? (3) To whom to
apply for further particulars?
(1) Insofar as the University of Sydney is
concerned, there is only one age limit for ad-
mission, i.e., students may not enrol in the
Faculty of Law under the age of 17 years.
There is no maximum age limit. Medical,
Dental and Veterinary Science students can-
not be admitted to their degrees until they
have attained the age of 21 years. (2) Consult
the Calendars of the Universities of Queens-
land and Sydney; these may be seen in the
N.S.W. Public Library, Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney. (3) Apply to the Registrar, University
of Queensland, Brisbane, and to the Registrar,
University of Sydney, Sydney, for all infor-
mation in regard to matriculation requirements
and any further information required.
* * * *
Are concrete tennis courts permitted in hard-
court competition tennis in N.S.W. ? Would
this be a matter to be decided by the Hard-
court Association or by a local association?
In hardcourt competitions it is usually the
duty of the committee controlling the com-
petition to determine the type of courts upon
which the match can be played. As a general
principal concrete courts are not usually accep-
table, but the decision is left to the local
association conducting the competition.
' « * * *
What Australian championships did Hughie
Dwyer win ? Whom did he win them from, and
who beat him for the titles? Where is Dwyer
now ?
Dwyer beat Sid Godfrey for lightweight
championship in 1922; Al Burke for welter
title in 1927; and Billy Edwards for middle-
weight honors in 1927. Dwyer was never beaten
for any of these championships, and he re-
tired a triple title-holder in 1928. Now pro-
prietor of Newcastle Stadium.
Brief Answers.
J.E.: T. E. Lawrence was stationed at
Uxbridge Aerodrome, England, when, as J. H.
Ross, he served his first term in the R.A.F.
He hid his identity for six months, but was then
recognised by a visiting officer, and discharged in
February, 1923, in consequence of the sensation
caused by the disclosure A.A.: (1) Write
Forestry Commission of N.S.W. (Division of
Wood Technology), 96 Harrington-street, Syd-
ney, for pamphlets on the use of N.S.W.
building timbers. (2) The most durable N.S.W.
pole timbers are White Cypress Pine (Callitais
glauca), Narrow-leafed Ironbark (Eucalyptus
crebra), Grey Box (E. hemphloia). Grey Iron-
bark (E. paniculatef), and Grey Gum (JE.
propinqua and E. punctata ) R.G.G.: There
is nothing to prevent you from copyrighting
the second edition of the book A.D.McE.:
Have made search of files but unable to trace
article D.J.L.: Write Angus and Robertson,
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney A.McD.:
Sorry, name and address not now available....
A.M.: (1) Large mobs of cattle-—larger than
those in the film —were crossing the N.T. long
before the film was ever made. (2) No, the
film does not depict the east-west stock route
across the N.T. (3) Most of it was made
around Alice Springs, Narwietooma and the
Roper River near Mataranka, none of which
places is on the east-west stock route. (4)
The Roper A.A.: (1) The horses are of
Arab strain. (2) Al wassat means “That which
is gathered,” i.e., “bunch”... .E.N.McK.: Mrs.
K. Langloh Parker was born at Encounter Bay
(S.A.). In her foreword to The Euahlayi Tribe
(1905) she states that her first book Australian
Legendary Tales was written on Bangate Station,
Narran River, her husband’s first property and
her home for 20 years... .R. 8.: Write Director-
General, Dept, of Information, Canberra
WJ.C.: Dig trench deep enough to reach the
clay sub-soil, place about 3in. or 4in. of
rubble on top of the sub-soil and fill with
earth A.A.D. (Roma, Q.): If you mean
what we think you mean, you don’t mean what
we meant A.M.R.: The position varies in
the different States and on the different gauges.
Generally speaking, on the 4ft. B|in. and
sft. 3in. systems (except the Commonwealth
4ft. Biin. and in electric zones) provision is
made for a width of 9ft. 9in. above platform
level and a height of 14ft. above the rails.
The Commonwealth is about 9in. wider and
6in. higher. On the 3ft. 6in. gauge the relative
measurements are 9ft. by 12ft. 6in F.C.H.:
If you still retain the services of the solicitor
he is bound to use due diligence in collecting
the costs, but if you are dissatisfied you may
hand the business over to another solicitor
K.J.K.: So long as the advertisement does not
amount to a false pretence, no offence would
be committed. If you trade under a name
other than your own, your trade name should
be registered E. 8.: (1) You may dispense
with his services at any time. (2) The solicitor,
if all his costs are paid, must hand over all
deeds, documents, etc., which belong to his
client but not his own records such as copies
of letters or documents which he himself has
written or drawn P.A.: No boxer named
Garcia won the world’s featherweight boxing
championship... .J.N.; Write U.S.A. Consulate,
7 Wynyard-street, Sydney... .F.J.8.M.: Try
Dominion Motors, 101 Wjlliam-street, Sydney.
A.McI.: The Vic. Local Government Act is
obtainable from Vic. Govt. Printer, Melbourne.
Price 13s. posted... .A.E.C.: (1) Cannot trace
river of that name. (2) Write Metropolitan
Police Office, New Scotland Yard, London,
5.W.1... .C.E.D.: The C.S.I.R. is forwarding
you some notes on the welding of bandsaws.


MUSICAL INSTRUMENT SPECIALS.
Guitars from £5/5/-. Clarinets, £6/10/-.
Drum Outfits, Saxophones, Piano
Accordions, etc. Write for Lists.
Our Shop is as near as your Post Office.
CLEMENS MUSICAL SERVICE,
31 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
King Central 1808.
“RAPID” ACTION
CONCRETE BLOCK AND BRICK
MOULDING MACHINE
d
fd
A Complete Plant in Itself
An Immediate Solution for Homebuilders
• 5 Models Available
• Hand-operated, Semi-automatic
• Eliminates Tamping
• Capacity 3 Blocks per minute
• Featuring Curved Blocks for Silos, Tanks, etc.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS—
\ INSPECTION INVITED
HALL & PYNE
Manufacturers of Special Purpose Machinery
63a Warren Road, Marrickville, Sydney.
’Phone: LL2441
msw
/
/
n
1
i
MADAM, mis /a
a POKER MACHINE I
This is the machine that may be
taking your husband’s money just as
surely as a fully-armed thug . . . and the
loss, of course, is yours as much as his.
In these machines, and by other methods
of gambling, hard-earned money and
honest savings are being carelessly squan-
dered . . . money that should be securing
the future of wives and families.
Use your influence, madam, and help
convert this money into savings!
YOU, TOO, MAY BE
LOSING MONEY . . .
But before you speak
to your husband,
check through your
own spending.
You’ll be surprised how much you can
save if you spend carefully, buy only
necessities, and make sure you pay no
more than fixed legal prices*
It’s easy to get into the habit of not
checking prices asked, and being over-
charged pennies here and threepences
there. Spread over your week’s shopping,
those extras soon add up!
Control your spending, therefore; refuse
to pay blackmarket prices, have a talk
with your husband—and soon you’ll be
making substantial savings for security.
There is no better place for money
saved than Bonds and Savings Cer-
tificates, both of which pay better
than bank interest .
5 WAYS TO SECURE YOUR
FUTURE AND AUSTRALIA'S
1, Buy only what you really need. Spend wisely
—get full value. Save all you can.
2, Pay no more than the fixed or regular prices.
Always surrender coupons.
3, Don’t waste money on blackmarkct goods.
4, Pay your way. Settle your debts. Buy for cash.
5, Invest your savings, at better than bank inter-
est, in Commonwealth Bonds, Savings Certificates
and Stamps. Later on you’ll have the money, plus
the interest, to spend on better goods in plentiful
supply at better values. Hold all the Bonds and
Certificates you own.
\CA f o^
m
SAVE FOR
SECURITY
BUY BONDS AND SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken
submitted; and no, MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
G.C.G.; Lines such as “No more of bliss
can Nature’s art portray” are trite, and weaken
rather than add anything to your picture of
Lake Wendouree M.E.: Tut. .. .Willie Tad-
pole (England): Just a tadpole, Willie A.b..
Come in and bellow: —•
A.E.S.: Are you sure that “zeal” is the
word you want to describe the flight of birds?
A M.: Haven’t we had that cuckoo singing
a'“ream” before? F.W.S.: Can’t give per-
sonal criticisms. Poems wordy, melodramatic
and archaic....D.L.: “Flame” doesn’t rhyme
with “stain” J.D.C.: Well meant, but its
a tame picture of a lively scene D.L.G.:
If true, make an Abo. par of it A.O.:
Those black cats have brought you bad luck.
D.C.H.: Indeed a tragic racing story; and
the ballad’s a tragedy, too G.M.H.: “The
Wonder of the Universe” is a somewhat
ambitious title J.S.: No idea where you
could place them M.C.: Something in both,
but the roses are the usual roses and we have
little interest in dolls... .A.D.; Insofar as it
is decipherable it does not appear to be a
masterpiece C.G.W.: Well, they might be
suitable for recitation to a tolerant audience
in the Domain, .. .M.D.: Pardonable if you
are very young... .J.G.: “I often sit and
ponder as I watch the waves roll in.” Ponder
away, then... .F.B.: As before... .L.G.: “I
was inspired to write this, due to fact that I
am madly in love with a beautiful girl, whose
beauty is well painted in my poem.” In that
case, tootle away: —
E.M.R.: Since the New Year we have re-
ceived nearly 50 stories wherein separated
parents are reunited by a flaxen-haired, blue-
eyed girl... .J.K.T.: We were awake to the
dream ending long before the finish G.F.D.:
You might tell us where we can buy a string
of those brumbies that win “classic” races at
their first start B.J. : That tale of the sea
appears to have been written by someone who
has never even seen the sea T.J.O’R.: A
very mild storm in a very small teacup
E. : Suggest you engage that super-salesman
to try to sell some of your short stories
W.A.K.: The first five pages could be scrapped
without harm to the story C.O’M.: Story
beginning “Blood, blood everywhere, but not
a corpse in sight” met with a gory end
R.M.M.: Mere description of a card game
made monotonous reading H.G.: Do you
always have such wild Saturday afternoons in
your part of the world? F.F.: If, as you
suggest, we offered a prize to the reader who
could pick the murderer there would be nearly
as many prize-winners as readers J.K.: We
don’t mind handwritten yarns provided
we can read them C.C.S.: Just another
“Crime Doesn’t Pay” story that seems to have
strayed from an American magazine A.S.W.:
Written for readers under 14 M.F.: It
might be true, but it is not funny E.H.:
Not wanting it for the Christmas or any other
number A.C.R.: Glad that you enjoyed
your Saturday-afternoon walk, but can’t see
it interesting a reader in Kalgoorlie L.McD.:
Sorry, but we weren’t in the mood for your
glamorous half-caste C.F.P.: That John
Hop doesn’t strike us as being a dinkum
country copper T.E.J.: The tenth tale
about counterfeit notes to reach us during the
past few weeks L.G.: Absent-minded pro-
fessors are a glut on the market M.J.K.:
Not a bad p.-0.-w. story. The trouble is that
it has been done before W.J.J.: Try a
woman’s paper... .A.T.F.: Missed by the width
of Australia.. .(.yJ.B.G.: At the moment the
bearded anarchist is trapped in the w.p.b
N.D.: “Gor blimey, Alf, I’m flamin’ dry.”
So were we at the finish of the yarn....
H.8.W.: What! “After safely evading pursuit
in Sydney Harbor the Jap submarine turned
into the mouth of the Tank Stream.” Where
do you live, Harold? ... .K.N.; A futile effort.
D.S.: Pay more attention to style....
C.McC.: You can’t get away with that in
our pages C.A.L.: Not including Lil among
our gallery of pin-up girls G.M.G.: Not
much different from the usual run of bush
benders... .R.W.: Put it aside and come at it
again J.T.: An everyday description of an
often-described locality has little chance of
seeing print R.S.: “She Did It.” Not in
these columns W.D.F.: Ordered a couple
of pounds of beef steak for man with shiner.
A.F.: Too mushy E.M.H.: Appar-
ently you do not believe in the theory
that honesty is the best policy J.D.W.:
Shows promise; put aside for a while and
try again... .R.P.: Old Gaffer doesn’t ring
true... .C.R.: Neatly told, but more for the
back page of a daily than for us S.W.:
Wild and woolly D.M.: Not in the market
for that type of religious story R.P.: By no
means a bad plot; presentation not up to the
mark... .M.J.McG.: We liked “Mrs. Tony” but
would like to see her more in the picture
F. “Mr. Trimble, M.P.,” lost his deposit.
.. . .L. 8.: Fair; try elsewhere A.F.K.: Ad-
mired Bill’s generosity A.F.D’C.; Only a
paragraph in it... .M.O’C.: Hopeless G.D.:
Far off our beat.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.S.: At the moment you’re merely making
paper boomerangs... .K.T.: Joke was on duty
in the early ’eighties... .S.L.: Not the week s
worst, but perilously close to it... .G.J.A.:
Congratulations upon your drawing of a spider-
web S.M.: Don’t submit faint pencil draw-
ings on colored paper... .M.K. : N0—.0.5.:
Looks well as a piece of decoration, but there is
no room for it in our pages... .S.S.: You can
just about manage a straight line Y. 8.:
Whoever told you it was “good enough for
The Bulletin” cannot be a very careful
observer of this paper.... J.D.: You’re 40 years
behind B. E. Minns with that C.D.S.:
Thanks, but we’ll have to struggle along with-
out it F.8.J.: Get on to some original
work C.0’8.: Same old slatterns on the
same old spree... .G.D.W.: You’ve been doing
some steady digging in the cemetery for buried
gags J.M.R.: The kangaroo hunter wins
this week’s prize for the most misshapen figure.
E.V.: A lopsided collection of figures and
a batch of ancient jokes J.K.: No place for
those misfits V.J.: Not wanting story-book
illustrations or juvenile gags E.M.W.: Any
ten-year-old could teach you a lot about
the game W.O’G.: You’re still tying in-
scribed balloons to characters’ lips D.C.:
When you upset an ink-bottle on a sheet of
paper don’t send the result to u5....M.5.:
Wash drawing too muddy for reproduction—.
H.J.: Hopeless... .F.M.: Scratchy... .F.R.N.:
Put your bathing beauties aside until summer.
Perhaps by then they’ll be more shapely,
Talkers to left of us, talkers to right of us,
Talking in Canberra —and their pay rose swiftly!
While we who are milking cows, we’re earning less
than Chows—
Well (if you don’t like rows) fork out then, Chitley.
DAWN.
When I am far away from home,
I sit me down and compose a poem,
Just thinking of your cheery smile,
I close the weary mile.
I- think of you from dawn till night;
Thinking of your eyes so bright,
Your teeth are like shining pearls,
And your hair a mass of curls.
In my dreams I dream of thee,
Breaming of our love to be,
Every time I see your face, it sends my heart a
patter;
Your beauty can only be compared to that of
Cleopatra.
Now on this summer’s day.
Let me say, that’s if I may,
That I bequeath this poem to dawn.
Whose beauty is far radiant than the early morn.


MR HICKEN'S PEARS
BY GEOFF BINGHAM
MR. HICKEN was a man inclined
to talk to himself quite a lot. The
Wirril Creek people often saw him
talking, either to himself or the
flowers in his front garden.
Perhaps he talked to himsfelf because
there was little he could see, so that ne
liked to hear sounds —the sound of his
own voice, the singing hum of the bees
in the flowers, and the rustle of the pear-
tree, right up against his own window,
its leaves upon the hard glass. And
especially in the winter he liked to hear
its thousand brown leaves bouncing
and scraping across the house paddock.
If there was a thing he loved more
than hearing sounds, it was smelling
smells. Take the pear-tree, for example.
Mr. Hicken liked the smell of pears, and
the riper the better. Also his plums,
peaches and nectarines. In all Wirril
Creek there were not peaches, plums and
nectarines like Mr. Hicken’s.
Often'the locals would see him gazing
down at his great heaps of fallen fruit,
shaking his head, sadly or happily they
would not know, but shaking his head
all the same, and talking, perhaps to the
clumped droning masses of bees, taking
sweetness from the old man’s fruit. The
locals hated to see all that fruit going to
waste, rotting, as it were, on the ground.
“Mr. Hicken,” they would say, “you
have a lot of fruit there.”
Mr. Hicken would nod, peer towards
where the voice was, and say, “A lot of
fruit, all right.”
“Fly, eh?” they would say. “Fly bad
this year?”
“Flies? Yes, they’re bad enough,” Mr.
Hicken would say. “Sticky this year.”
“Fruit-fly,” they would explain. “Fly
got into the fruit, eh?”
“Go on,” Mr. Hicken would say,
slightly interested. Mr. Hicken would
never have been able to see even one fly.
“Pity,” they would say, “pity about the'
fly.” 1
Mr. Hicken never caught on. He never
told them to come in and take what
they wished to take. Instead he let the
heaped fruit rot, taking his delight in
the visiting bees, for he loved their dron-
ing sound. Rarely he atfe a single peach
or nectarine, so that his orchard was a
fruit-fly’s paradise.
The pears, above all, wfere the envy of
all Wirril Creek. Given half a chance
all the Wirril Creek housewives would
have been into his orchard quickly as a
shot out of a gun, their sugar-sacks
loaded, and out again. There were other
pear-trees in Wirril Creek, but they suf-
fered badly from the depredations of the
flying-foxes. Shrieking and quarrelling
all night, those great flapping crfeatures
would ruin the crop before it ripened,
that is, excepting Mr. Hicken’s fruit.
Why the flying-foxes should not
choose to attack the succulent pears of
Mr. Hicken had always been a problem
unsolved, to the folk of Wirril Creek.
Pears are pears, wherever they are, and
flying-foxes are not given to whims and
fancies, especially where pears are large
and golden. There was some tale con-
cerning Mr. Hicken, who, in the days
before his son Ralph went away to enlist,
would stand every night on his backdoor
step and swear at the flying animals.
Much as this said for Mr. Hicken’s ability
to swear, the tale is probably overrated.
Some had it that Mr. Hicken would
bang a large gong, persistently, whilst
others had it he waved a golden lamp.
Whatever he did, or did not do, the foxes,
as far back as most could remember, had
never landed on the magic pear-tree.
THAT Saturday morning, then, when
Mr. Hicken stood beneath his pear-
tree surveying a pile of saffron fruit, tears
dropped from his eyes. They may have
been tears of joy, for Mr. Hicken seemed
to feel things very much.
Whenever he “felt,” moisture would
gather in his dim eyes, so that when he
shook his head, out of sheer excess of
feeling, the tears dropped. Now those
tears were falling on the ripened fruit.
Mr. Hicken loved those pears.
When he hfeard the harsh dry scraping
of a dray, and the dull thumping of a
horse’s hooves, he did not look up. He
muttered on to his pears. When he was
hailed, however, he paused a moment,
and ceased from contemplating his fruit.
“Ah, there, Mr. Hicken! ” said a voice,
a bright, cheery kind of voice.
Mr. Hicken peered, but could not see.
He shook his head.
“Snapjacks, watermelons, peanuts and
squash!” said thfe voice.
Mr. Hicken shook his head in be-
wilderment. It all meant nothing to him.
“Cheap!” said the voice, “cheapest in
Wirril Creek.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Hicken. He made his
way towards the voice. The word
“cheap” excited him somewhat, for Mr.
Hicken had the reputation of being
“close.” He wanted to see what was
cheap.
When he got to the dray he saw, dimly,
two boys seated just in rear of the horse’s
rump. One was young Jim Hickey, Dolly
Hickey’s boy, as he could see, bright-
faced, merry, with impudent eyes, and a
flat squash in his hands. The other boy,
bullet-headed, he did not know. This boy
stared at him, for it was the first time in
his life he had seen Mr. Hicken and he
was intrigued, especially by the manner
in which Mr. Hicken’s hair, for all its
age, came looping down over his fore-
head, almost to the long-pointfed nose be-
neath the dimmed watery eyes. Never the-
less he nodded and said, “ ’Morning, Mr.
Hicken.”
Mr. Hicken nodded. He kept staring
at the squash. “I can’t grow stuff like
that,” he said. “Can’t grow a thing.”
“Watermelons,” said the Hickey boy
proudly, “Can’t beat them for size.”
“Can’t grow watermelons,” grumbled
Mr. Hicken. “Can’t grow anything.”
Dolly Hickey’s boy was no fool. Also,
he was out for business. “Grow anything
on your place, Mr. Hicken,” he said, wav-
ing a hand across two hundred grfeen
acres, “and look at your fruit-trees.”
“Fruit grows with water,” said Mr.
Hicken irritably. “Can’t grow anything
else without water.” He shook his head.
“Cheap they are,” said the small sales-
man. “Bob the watermelons. Zack the
squash and snapjacks. Peanuts bob a
pound.”
“Ah,” said Mr, Hicken, “Peanuts.”
His eyes, if it was possible, gleamed. Mr.
Hicken had always wanted to grow pea-
nuts. That he could not grow them
rankled him, somewhere inside.
“Can’t grow ’em,” said Mr. Hicken.
“Never have been able to.”
Dolly Hickey’s boy had almost for-
gotten Mr. Hicken. He was gazing wist-
fully at the tree of golden pears. It was
not that he liked china-pears himself, not
to speak of, anyway. His bright little
mind was thinking of all the needful
wives of Wirril Creek, they with their
preserving-pans put away, their sugar
unused, their bottles empty; for when
peaches and apricots are bottled, what
else is there to preserve but the pears that
the flying-foxes have eaten?
The Hickey boy could see, as in a
dream, his dray filled with pears, golden
pears that heaped up, high, that smelled
sweetly beneath his nostrils, that tumbled
from his dray, so many he had of them.
He could even hear his own voice shout-
ing, “Pears! Good yeller pears! Mr.
Hicken’s good yeller pears!”
In this dream he could see the good
wives of Wirril Creek, flowing from every
house and home, they with their baskets
and their dishes, all descending on him
for his pears. They were thanking him,
and he was asking almost any money,
and getting it.
Mr. Hicken was feeling. Tears
gathered in his eyes, rheumed their way
down his face. A red hairy paw wiped
them away. “Peanuts,” he said sadly.
The Hickey boy shook his head sym-
pathetically, his mind still on the pears.
“You c’d grow them,” said the bullet-
headed boy.
“And when Ralph comes home he won’t
stay. That’s certain,” said Mr. Hicken.
“Ah, Ralph coming home?” said the
Hickey boy, interestedly.
“Coming home, and he won’t stay,”
said Mr. Hicken. “Ralph said more’n
once that he Wouldn’t farm where there
was no water.” He shook his head sadly.
“He won’t either,” he said.
“Well, then,” said the Hickey boy,
“you’ve got to have water.”
The old man shook his head. “No
water,” he mumbled. These youngsters
talked a lot; more than in his day. No
water, no Ralph. He could see Ralph,
home for a day, or a wfeek perhaps, but
not after that. No water,
“Coming back from the islands he
won’t want to stay,” he said. It was
just now a man wanted his boy with
him. His eyes moistened.
The boy Hickey could see Ralph com-
ing home, tall, thin, misty, a kitbag over
his shoulder, a Samurai sword at his
side, and perhaps, like Sam Lonegan,
with a few grass skirts for the girls
to giggle over. He could see Ralph look-
ing about for water and finding none and,
disgusted, leaving the old man to mumble
to his pears. No, that would be a bad
thing. Also the Hickey boy was wanting
his dray filled with pears.
LEANING down from his seat, his
head cupped in his hands, his brown
eyes earnest, thfe Hickey boy said to Mr.
Hicken, “Just where is the water you
have got, Mr. Hicken?”
“Not enough. Not enough,” said Mr.
Hicken. “A spoonful, no more, you
might say.”
VARIOUS VERSE.
Tamaki River Beach.
A boy’s world is free —it is not bought with
pence.
Come, common sun, and shine from common
sides,
And let men with their petty scratchings fence
Paddock and house, wherein their treasure lies.
A boy’s world is boundless; Time doffs his
dark disguise
For boy and dog who, feeling, understand
The glowing urgency of this young land.
Boy and dog are early on the scene
With home-made fishing line and luncheon pail,
The tide is rising and they mark its rise with
Expectant eyes, from the jetty’s broken rail.
Boy talks of fish —dog wags responsive tail;
All things delight the eyes of dreaming boy —
Dog gives explosive little barks of joy.
They know of gleaming shores not far away,
Shelly beaches, surf, and silken, sand.
Thronged with sun-bathers, caravans and gay
Canoes, swimmers, life-guards, donkeys, kiosk,
band;
And children that the summer suns have
tanned.
But here is a midget beach —a shabby dwarf
Of rocks, mud. rusty tins, and knock-kneed
wharf.
Two other boys arrive, dog gives suspicious
looks
At the lively Maori and the small Chinese
Who spread out lines and sinkers, baits and
hooks.
And now three boys are busy on their knees,
While dog stands by, with lolling tongue agrees
This way and that, how far the lines should
reach —
No strangers these, they have a common speech.
Beaked garfish skid in splintering light and
spray
From wave to wave, sea-eggs flaunt, their quills
Among dark weeds where the stinging, heart-
shaped ray
Slides with a rolling ripple of its frills;
Over the ridges of mud and sandy hills
Flick rainbow shrimps; this is the haunt of
dabs.
Of seedy mussels, polyps and spindly crabs.
Cries from the wharf, “A bite! he has a bite!
Tim has a bite! Now take it easy, Tim!
He’s hooked! He’s off, he’s on, he’s going to
fight r
A patiki! And look at the size of him!
Three inch of fish from tail to muzzle grim !
0 happy boy, so happy that he shoves
Into the tide the thing he really loves.
Dog overboard! Dog floundering in the sea!
Dog all alone in wide expanse of blue I
Dog sneezes, rolls a wave, “Boys, look at Me!
1 may be dog, but I’m amphibious, too.”
All eyes on dog to see what dog will do.
Dog tamely runs aground, rat’s-tail, ecstatic
eyes,
Four muddy paws and half his normal size.
Screams rend the air, a gull’s ill-mannered
shriek,
The sharp-eyed picket of this strip of sea
Circles the bay, and from his open beak
There flow invective and cacophony:
“Look, look, old Stormalong, Screamalong,
Wingalong I
Look, look, look, looka! Stealing our fish I”
Dog runs the beach, yelps in falsetto key,
Leaps at a shadow, and with delighted grin
Adds his uproarious bark to seagulls’ din.
Tim misses a coy wriggle by his toes,
A huffing and deep breathing in his ear,
Restless scratching and a cold wet nose —
Dog clowns, pretends to fly, the seagulls sneer;
Tim whistles from the wharf, “Hi, you! Come
here / v
He deeply feels dog’s lack of dignity.
Dog bustles up, abashed, and scrapes a paw
across his knee.
The day he caught his first fish.. .Eternal day!
No- blustering winds of future years will -blow
Cold on these hours or wither them away.
The shadows lengthen—it is time to go —
The three boys part, “Hurray!” and “Cheerio!”
“So long!” says Tim, swinging his patiki.
Anonymous is streaking home to tea.
MX.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.
Old Woman Island.
You can imagine the continual talk,
The sway and the swagger, the glasses lifted
To be smashed on the rocks; not a mile’s walk
From the shore —as if the headland shifted
Out with the tide on drifting sands; like the pub
Two storeys above the poor men’s houses, which
loomed
Licentious above low trees. This was the hub
Of the waves’ circles. Where the surf boomed,
From its white lips this larger bubble
Grassed, bare of timber, emerged flattening:
As though a strong land wind blew double
The strength of the sea wind, battening
Down hatches of air bluer than blue sky
And even than sea. Some were amazed
At this deeper blue. No outline for the eye
But of color on color; a patchwork of crazed
Artistry, uncaptured by brush, too blue:
And no relief but a line of surf, or bird.
Then, there was this enigma of naming, too.
“Old Woman Island”.. .what legend behind
each word?
Was this another island of reputation
Puffed up above the horizon, pricked with a
squeak?
Bubble of sea or sky, or rock formation
On which, like light-bulbs, bubbles of spray
would break:
Here was the island some spoke of, wanting a
name.
“An island like an old woman,” someone would
say;
And ordinary men exploring, none foxing fame,
Would launch the new island, “Old Woman
Island” — but, no I
Likeness was not in this; and they must search
Neighboring coasts for a story, who sought in
all
Reason beyond mere acceptance, who would
besmirch
Credulity of angels, if knowledge would call.
For them, was this pale old legend of a grey
woman —
Corn cobs without good grain, jaws without
teeth.
The flaxen maize now dried to untidy cotton—
Nobody seems to have known her race and
faith.
Nevertheless we accept, she was native born,
And native she died on her island, so men say,
Swimming out on the tide with the forlorn
Wish to die on an island she cherished — though,
why?
Here, legend is silent, and casuistry holds sway:
No help from the mainland; only the noise of
surf
To landward, where news is the empty—time
of day;
Or, the tide; what fish are weighed at the
wharf.
Always so hopeless, seeking after an answer,
Talk of the surf to confuse you, tangle of sand.
“Looking out from the mainland, there was a
man, sir,
Who masoned, the island was joined here by
dry land:”
Of course—and the obvious theory, you would
reckon.
Years she was exiled by the relentless sea;
Grew up from childhood, to watch the island
beckon
Her back to the place of her birth, sadly to die.
Thai is her monument, there, amid the blue.
Sometimes a cloud, or an island —it would
appear
Part of the mainland to sailors, except to a few
Fishing along the coast, and sailing near.
“Old Woman Island” they called it. Strange
is that name.
What could an old grey woman possibly do
To grip their imagination, to warrant this fame ?
“ ‘Old Woman Island’ is little enough”—say
you.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


FOR
MEN
WHO
STUDY
“Then show it to us,” said the bullet-
headed boy, “and we might be able to do
something.”
Mr. Hicken shook his head. Boys,
boys, boys. He wanted to get back to
his pears. He wanted to grow peanuts.
He did not want boys. Nevertheless he
took them through the wickfet-gate, lead-
ing them past the rotting fruit, the
luscious pears, until they were in his
fields of green paspalum. Red cows
stared at them, but he led the boys past
the stock until they stood on the edge of
a ridge, the edge itself cupped somewhat,
and gapped in a small cleft, about eight
feet high. Through the dip trickled a
stream of clear water. It glittered in the
new sunlight, gurgling as it was lost be-
tween rocks, finally disappearing over the
ridge.
“That’s all,” said Mr. Hicken. “That’s
the lot. Not another creek.” He waved
his hand across the green acres. “Not
another creek,” he said, “No rain and
it’ll all look dry.” He shook his head.
“Not enough for Ralph,” He gazed
sadly into distance.
The Hickey boy and his bullet-headed
companion exchanged stares. “Easy,”
they said, together.
Mr. Hicken was shaking his head. He
wished, now, they would go. He was
tired of them. .
“You’ve just got to dam it,” said the
Hickey boy. “Dam it on the edge of the
ridge, and you’ve got all the water you
want.”
“Ehf ” said Mr. Hicken.
“There,” the boys pointed to the edge
of the ridge. “Dam that and you’ll have
plenty of water.”
“Well, now,” said Mr. Hickfen. His
face began to shine. “Dam it, eh?”
Then he shook his head. “Couldn’t dam
it.”
“Yes,” said the boys, “easily.”
“Nothing to dam it with,” said Mr.
Hicken. His eyes were beginning to
moisten again. Excitement was telling on
him.
“There’s a ton of rock there,” said the
Hickey boy, “and I’ve got the dray, see?
I can get some stuff in it, see?”
“Do it easily,” said the boy with the
bullet-shaped head. He looked serious
and confident.
“Well, bless my soul!” said Mr.
Hicken.
After that he did not argue. He let
them go their way. There was, on his
part, much shaking of the head. He was
sure Ralph would not stay. The boy
had said the place was no good without
water, too risky. No, he could not be-
lieve all this about the dam.
The boys decided the rocks were not
enough so they went away. He heard his
front rails clatter to the ground, and the
dray scrape away. The boys were away
a long time, and when they came back
again he had dreamed the dam into, and
out of, existence. They had rocks in their
dray, which they unloaded. They went
away, again, the dray wheels scraping
against the loose brake leathers.
They returned with a drayload of
yellow clay, and on the top two shovels
sticking up, triumphantly, Mr, Hicken
thought they must have been his own
shovels.
“Bless my soul! ” said Mr. Hicken,
again, when he saw the load they had.
The boys began stacking the rock
against the edge of the cleft in the ridge.
There was cunning in every stone laid.
The small trickle began to swell as it was
pressed back in the hollow.
Said Mr. Hicken, for the third time,
“Bless my soul!” This time hfe said it
delightedly.
He sat down on the bank, and took off
his boots. He removed his thick black
socks, baring his white feet. Then he
rolled up his trousers, almost to the
knees. His white legs had few hairs on
them. Next he ventured into the water.
THE water was cool, but soft. It
spread, at first, about the toes of
Mr. Hicken, seemed to gurgle delightedly
at making the old man’s acquaintance,
and bid him venture further.
With a curious feeling at his heart Mr*
Hicken did so. He waded until he was
ankle-deep, and all the time his eyes were
tearful; with joy this time.
“I believe we will do it, boys,” he
said.
The boys nodded, for they were very
busy. Time and again they had played
at this in the crefek and they knew their
game well. Mr. Hicken watched them,
happy and amazed. He even began to
pick up rocks, and pass them to the boys.
Each rock the boys acknowledged, as
though Mr. Hicken’s rocks were import-
ant above other rocks. This pleased Mr.
Hicken, who, after a time, began to direct
things, although more or less apologeti-
cally.
“Now look, boys, don’t you think that
rock ought to go there?” he would say,
pointing.
“Why, of course, Mr. Hicken.” And
the rock would be placed there, all right,
although it is doubtful whether or not
Mr. Hicken, because of his shortsighted-
ness, saw the winks that were sometimes
exchanged. »
When the water became knee-deep Mr.
Hicken had to roll his trousers up along
his thin thighs. This he did with plea-
sure. All the time the wall of the dam
was heightening, rocks and yellow clay
pugged between them. Mr. Hicken could
scarcely believe it all.
“Why,” he said after a time, “the
water’ll be over our heads when it fills
up.”
The boys nodded solemnly. “You can
irrigate, then,” said the bullet-headed
boy, “like Sam Lonegan does.”
{Continued on page 32.)


Relieve mA
NASAL.
SORENESS duetoaius
Don't suffer—when your nose feels
dried out. or sore, apply Culicura
Ointment to aid quick relief.
Always keep a tin handy—good
for cuts, bruises and sores. One of
the famous trio—Caticura Oint-
ment, Soap and Talcum Powder. 53s
OINTMENT
ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S
. BOOK SELECTION
MONTGOMERY, a penetrating biography of one of the greatest leaders of
our time, by Alan Moorehead, with photographs and maps.
16/- (post 6d.).
™ CHAPTERS, 1942 TO 1945. A short and personal record of Lord
Montgomery s activities in outline since August, 1942, to May, 1945.
6/6 (post. 3d.).
HOU ?SISWSS£
ISi r 535
offensive operation in the history of war. * greatest
Containing 47 maps in colour and 3 diagrams numbered for easy reference to the text.
30/- (post. 9d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA 6511.
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.,
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MARX ON RUSSIA.
A sample has already been given (B.
25/6/’47) of what the foremost Com-
munist figure in world history, Karl
Marx, wrote on Russia when, about the
middle of last century, he was a corres-
pondent of N.Y, “Tribune.”
The discovery having been made that
Marx’s “Tribune” articles had a little
later been published as a book, the mine
is now being well worked in the U.S.
press, and some strange ore is coming
out of it. The main point is the uncanny
accuracy with which many of Marx’s
anti-Czarist-Russia views apply to Soviet
Russia; especially to its moves since the
end of the war.
“The conflict between Russian despot-
ism and Western democracy,” Marx
wrote, “seems to be everlasting in the
Balkans. Those who are working for
the survival of democracy in Europe must
introduce European arts, sciences, justice,
liberty and the spirit of independence into
the Balkans,”
Since, as one comment on his book
has put it, “No man could be less a
Marxist in the present Russian sense than
Karl Marx himself,” Marx could now
write of present Russia exactly what he
wrote of the Russia of Ijjs own day.
From time to time,” the seer wrote,
“Russia pretends that it has no evil in-
tentions against this or that nation, but
merely wishes to protect it. Humanity
should be on its guard against claims of
protection on the part of Russia. Did
they not claim to be the protectors of
Poland at one time?
“Russia keeps claiming that it has no
annexationist designs. In order to ascer-
tain the hypocrisy of this claim it is suffi-
cient to review the annexations carried
out by Russia since the time of Peter the
Great. Territories obtained in Europe
by Russia during the last 60 years [to
about 1850] are as large as the entire
Russian possessions in Europe 60 years
ago.”
Commenting on a contemporary show
of interest by Uncle Sam in the Mediter-
ranean and Near East (the present in-
terest there looks like being more last-
ing), Marx wrote; “It is a remarkable
fact that the first mark of interest taken
by the United States in European affairs
concerns the Eastern question. They are
becoming aware that there are reasons
why Constantinople constitutes the divid-
ing issue in the conflict between East
and West.”
In a prophetic vein—it would seem
there has never been a more accurate
prophet, even though he was an acci-
dental wearer of the mantle—Marx ques-
tioned: “Will the Byzantinism repre-
sented by Russia yield to Western civilis-
ation or will it one day find an oppor-
tunity to renew its pernicious influence
in forms more terrible and more tyran-
nical than ever?”
It might be that the originators of pre-
sent U.S. policy in Europe had studied
Marx more carefully than those who
style themselves his followers. He wrote
these accurate warnings:
Is it probable that this gigantic and swollen
Power will pause in its career? With the
annexation of Turkey and Greece she [would
have] excellent seaports, while the Greeks
[would] furnish skilful sailors for her navy.
With Constantinople, she [would stand] on the
threshold of the Mediterranean; with the
Albanian coast, she [would be] in the very
centre of the Adriatic.
And then, the broken and undulating western
frontier of the Empire would call for recti-
fication; and it would appear that the natural
frontier of Russia runs from Danzig, or per-
haps Stettin, to Trieste. And as sure as con-
quest follows conquest, and annexation fol-
lows annexation, so sure would the conquest
of Turkey by Russia be only the prelude for
the annexation of Hungary, Prussia and Galicia.
More ore from the Marxian mine:
Russian diplomacy has rested on the timidity
of Western statesmen, and her diplomatic art
has gradually sunk into so complete a
mannerism, that you may trace the history of
the present transactions almost literally in the
annals of the past....
Who is to rule in Constantinople would then
no longer be the question—but who is to com-
mand all Europe? The Slavonic race, long
divided by internal contests... .would then for
the first time assert its unity, and, in doing
so, declare war to the knife against the... .races
which have hitherto ruled the Continent. Pan-
Slavism is not a movement which merely strives
after national independence: it is a movement
which, thus acting upon Europe, would tend
to undo what a thousand years of history have
created; which could not realise itself with-
out sweeping from the map Hungary, Turkey
and a large part of, Germany. Moreover, it
must subjugate Europe in order to secure the
stability of these results, if they are ever
obtained.
Russian diplomacy ? more dangerous than
Russian generalship, is again at work.
England, especially, has been imposed on.
She has been bullied, and is so still. She has
not dared to declare her soul to be her own
“France Amérigue.”
FOREST AND GARDEN, 1947.
from the beginning to the present day. France,
too, has been bullied. But both together have
been frightened out of the only policy which
could at once have guaranteed the preservation
of peace, while maintaining their own respec-
tability. To the arrogance of the Autocrat
they have replied with the symptoms of
cowardice.
If at the outset they had used a manly style
of language adequate to the position they hold,
and the pretensions they set up before the
world, if they had proved that bluster and
swagger could not impose on them, the
Autocrat would not only have refrained from
attempting it, but would have entertained for
them a very different feeling from that contempt
which must now animate his bosom. There
is only one way to deal with a Power like
Russia, and that is the fearless way.
It is cheering to see the American inter-
vention m Europe beginning just with the
Eastern Question. Besides the commercial and
military impmtance resulting from the situation
of Constantinople, there are other important
considerations, making its possession the hotly
controverted and permanent subject of dispute
between the East and the West—and America
is the youngest and most vigorous represen-
tative of the West.
Constantinople is the golden bridge thrown
between the West and the East, and Western
civilisation cannot, like the sun, go round the
world without passing that bridge; and it
cannot pass it without a . struggle with Russia.
As a footnote: Marx’s daughter,
Eleanor Marx Aveling, gathered those
and other Marx “Tribune” writings into
book form with the title The Eastern
Question, published in London by Swan
Sonnenschein and Co. in 1897, and she
wrote in her own introduction: “One
thing has remained constant and per-
sistent: the Russian Government’s policy
of aggrandisement. The methods may
vary—the policy remains the same. To-
day [1897] the Russian Government,
which is no longer wholly synonymous
with Russia, is, as it was in the
the greatest enemy of advance, the
greatest stronghold of reaction.”
U.S.-BRITISH GERMANY.
Fed-up at last — might well have
been 12 months ago—U.S. and Britain
are going ahead with the unification of
their occupation zones in Germany and
the handing over of responsibilities to
the Germans.
Soon, says “World Report,” Germans
acting under a council taking U.S.-British
directions, and with headquarters at
Frankfurt, “are to exercise more power
than at any time since*the war.” The
new council of 50-odd members will be
chosen by the elected German legislatures,
while “from that body down through the
seven State Governments of the U.S. and
British zones to the grassroots of local
government Germans are to hold both
the power and the responsibility.”
To begin with, U.S.-Britain will be put-
ting only three times as many dollars
into Germany as the Germans can re-
pay by exports, against five dollars to
one hitherto. Germans are to get better
food and other incentives, and in a few
years should be able to stand on their
own feet and begin to pay back what has
been advanced to help them recover. .
The new set-up —“the nearest thing to
a central Government since the Nazi re-
gime crumbled”—is to tie in with the
present State and local-government
bodies, these now “so highly organised
that most German citizens can get back
to peace-time business without meeting
other than German officials.”
What this new council system amounts
to is a combining of British and U.S.
policies in Germany, uniting British ideas
of centralisation with U.S. plans for
giving more responsibility to Germans,
“What it means in terms of Germany’s
future,” says “World Report,” “is that
only political government, which now
stops at the provincial level, is lacking
for a new State in Europe.”
That German State alone would have
a greater population than France; some
40,000,000-odd. It is, of course, the U.S.-
British answer to the Soviet obstruction
of a resettlement of Europe; a direct
answer to what happened at Moscow.
While, however, the new council thus
provides for giving Germans more re-
sponsibility, there are doubts about its
being a quick solution to the more press-
ing problem of providing enough food
to keep them alive. Stating in a joint
London “Times” letter that “it will be un-
fortunate if too much is expected” from
the council arrangement, two members
of the House of Commons, A. Spearman
and O. Poole, added that in a recent visit
they had found conditions in Germany
“a good deal worse than six months
ago”:
The system of collecting and distributing food
has partially broken down; only a little over
half the official ration is being honored in the
places that matter. A British official showed
us a week’s ration on the present scale of dis-
tribution ; it is less than the average Englishman
eats in a day.
The fact that there is near starvation matters
to the Germans and to those who hate to see
others suffering, whatever they may have done.
The fact that the German economy is running
down matters to every Englishman and Ameri-
can ; it puts a strain upon our financial position
that we cannot stand for long; it endangers
Western civilisation.
As would be expected, that state of
things gives the Communists the very sort
of opportunity they relish. Their use of
it was recently described by a London
“Times” special correspondent:
The impression that British and Americans
are pursuing a “strategy of starvation” persists,
notwithstanding all the millions which the
Western Powers have paid and continue to pay
to keep 40,000,000 Germans alive. Adopting
and acting on the Hitler dictum that the greater
the lie the greater the likelihood of its being
believed, the Communists have never ceased to
insinuate that the purpose of British policy is
to kill off Germans by the million; and their
efforts have been fortuitously but powerfully
reinforced by sinking rations. Faith in Britain
and her form of democracy, which stood so
high 18 months ago, has fallen with each failure
to honor the food-card. When, as happens in
some parts of the zone, the daily diet 'has
represented fewer than 700 calories, then con-
ditions are ripe for agitation and worse. Hungry
stomachs do not reason.
The “Times” correspondent, referring
to a “sense of hopelessness” which
“possesses the Ruhr miner today,” also
stated:
A new and disturbing psychosis is developing,
and this probably has as much to do with the
fall in production as the inadequacy of the
ration itself. The Ruhr is uneasy. Social
Democrat and other party leaders are confident
of their ability to maintain that discipline
which has hitherto been one of the miners’
outstanding qualities, but no one can visit the
Ruhr today without feeling the change which
has taken place—perhaps in part because of
the long, hard winter endured in appalling
conditions, but even in larger part because the
miner sees no future for himself and his family.
Given the present difficulties and disillusion-
ments it is a moot question how long the miner
will remain disciplined.
Despite that, and the general starva-
tion conditions which he describes in de-
tail, the “Times” special correspondent
does not see the Germans of the U.S.-
British combined zones as turning to
Russia:
It would be a mistake to suppose that there
has been either in the Ruhr or elsewhere in the
west a swing towards Russia, notwithstanding
evidence of the growing strength of the Com-
munists. Deep disappointment prevails among
all sections of the community that the ex-
pected and promised improvement in the con-
ditions of life has not come about. Just as
deep is the scepticism about the value and
virtue of Western democracy. It is not under-
stood —and here the failure is one of Allied
propaganda—that the plight of Germany has
been brought on her by the Germans them-
selves. Even less is it understood that but
for the war’s vast destruction of resources
and effort the world as a whole would not be
suffering the scarcity it is today. Nevertheless,
for all the lack of comprehension on the one
hand and all the disillusionment on the other,
the Germans are not turning towards Russia
as the way to salvation. Where they will turn
is the great question mark of the moment.
A question, of course, to which there
can be no really final answer until after
all the occupation ends.
AIDED DICTATORS.
If Franco and Perdn have a sense of
humor they must get their best laughs out
of how they have been aided by their
enemies.
Both are today reported to be more
strongly entrenched than ever, despite
all the wishful claims to the contrary,
and despite the attempts to shift them.
It should be an instructive lesson on the
idiocy of negative interference in the
national affairs of any country, but appar-
ently the world’s busybodies are far too
busy to learn.
Uncle Sam may, perhaps, have learned
a little, his “interference” in Greece
appearing to be on positive, helpful lines,
contrasting with his bumptious telling to
the Argentinians what to do with Perdn,
or else. That sad chapter for Uncle Sam


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householder s’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
U/ye “MARS" PLAIN MILLER
f
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
dfd
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFC. COY. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers
Bridge St., Valley, Brisbane.
Licensed Manufacturers in Qld. of
MEEHANITE METALS.
fd
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VlC.—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.),
Brunswick, Melbourne. S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide. W.A.—The Western
Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd. BOMBAY PROVINCE —R. S. Mehta
& Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
A large percentage of economic waste is
caused by the destruction of property by FIRE,
and while such waste cannot be eliminated, the
individual can avoid financial devastation by
making adequate use of the valuable and
necessary service rendered to the community
by Insurance Companies.
The prompt service given enables reconstruc-
tion to commence immediately, and is the
means of restoring to the workers employment
which might otherwise be lost to them.
The Australian public has been brought to
realise that the support of Australian indus-
tries by every Individual is helping the country
generally to right its difficulties, but continued
patronage is necessary in order to reduce our
country’s “total indebtedness” and thus speed
the return to prosperity and financial stability.
FOR
68
Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
—it has been called “the worst rebuff in
U.S. diplomatic history”—is now being
buried as quietly as possible.
Like much else on the wrong side of
the ledger of world affairs —the Morgen-
thau “goat-pasture” plan for Germany;
the appeasements of Soviet greed at
Tehran and Yalta, and much more —
Uncle Sam’s policy towards his greatest
southern neighbor was yet another ex-
ample of human fallibility. Its chief
sponsor was the formfer U.S. Ambassador
to Argentina, Spruille Braden, whose
honest detestation of dictators in general
and Peron in particular blinded him to
the simple fact that every people on earth
will resent foreign interference, and per-
haps none more so than the proverbially
proud Spanish, of whom the Argentinians
are largely a transplantation, even to this
day looking to Spain as their mother
country.
The most severe rebuff to the Braden
policy of “getting tough with Perdn” was
the Argentinians’ enthusiastic election of
Peron as President in February, 1946.
A few months earlier Mr, Braden had
been recalled and made Assistant-Secre-
tary of State (where he continued the
feud), his place as Ambassador being
taken over by George Messersmith. This
change suggests that the U.S. Administra-
tion had seen in advance where the
Braden policy would lead, Mr. Messer-
smith being Mr. Braden’s exact opposite
—an advocate not of toughness but of
conciliation with Peron.
Last month both policy-makers were
out, Mr. Braden resigning for “business
reasons” and Mr. Messersmith because his
“mission was completed.” Mr. Truman
then announced that the U.S. was ready
to resume discussions of a Western
Hemispheric defence pact which had been
held up by the rift. The next conciliatory
move, according to N.Y. “Times,” is ex-
pected to be an early calling of another
conference at Rio de Janeiro, “to put
into effect the long-delayed defence pact.”
The futility of interference in other
peoples’ affairs on “get tough” lines
could not be better illustrated, unless it
might be thought that the U.N.O. ex-
perience with Franco is a stronger ex-
ample. “Wall-street Journal” foreign
affairs writer William Henry Chamber-
lin summed up on the Argentine fiasco:
President Truman seems to have taken a wise
decision in winding up the feud which Spruille
Braden had been carrying on with the Peron
regime in Argentina. Whatever one may think
of Peron’s political and economic ideas, he is
the freely-elected President of Argentina and
there is no practical means of ousting him.
Under these circumstances, it seems more sen-
sible to draw him into the restraining influence
of an American hemispheric system than to
leave him a discontented outsider, free to in-
trigue with nations hostile to the United States.
Which is precisely what the new,
friendly U.S. policy towards Perdn aims
to bring about.
An interesting—not to say charming—
link between Argentina and Spain was
the subject a few weeks ago of a re-
port by N.Y, “Times” Madrid correspon-
dent Sam Hope Brewer. There have been
brief mentions of the link in cables; but
she —Senora Eva Duarte Peron —seems to
deserve more, not only because she’s evi-
dently an extra-fetching good-looker, but
for what she, her mission and her re-
ception represent. Among other things
they show —what J. Bull’s astute foreign
affairs experts have known and been act-
ing on all along—that interfering in the
internal affairs of Spain would certainly
have repercussions in South America.
Had Britain interfered in Spain’s civil
war —as urged at the time by Leftish wise-
acres, including famous warriors of the
hearth and the pen in Australia—the
Second World War would have had some
different turns to it.
The N.Y. “Times” man reported with
understandable enthusiasm about Senora
Peron, whom he saw as “carrying out
the most original diplomatic mission de-
vised in recent times”; he thought that
mission very likely to be “a huge suc-
cess” :
She has the advantage over ordinary Ambas-
sadors of being able to provide a good show
for the. public. She herself is a personable
young woman with a glamorous air, and the
festivals planned in her honor provide spectacles
for thousands of Spaniards.
The principal topics of conversation con-
nected with her visit are the huge expense
involved and her personal appearance. Nobody
knows even within a few million pesetas what
it is costing. Sample items are the complete
refitting of the new plane that brought her
here; the printing of an elaborate illustrated
programme circulated among only a few hun-
dred officials and estimated to have cost nearly
a quarter of a million pesetas to print; the
mountains of gifts being presented to her and
the banquets and dance festivals all along the
way.
At a folk-dance display one night each of
the 50 provinces of Spain presented her with
a complete outfit of a traditional costume.
She also received a Moroccan outfit.
A casket of Spanish-made perfumes presented
to her is reported to have cost 40,000 pesetas.
Estimates of the total cost of the visit
range from 20,000,000 to 40,000,000 pesetas —
$2,000,000 to $4,000,000.
She, on her side, has distributed approxi-
mately $50,000 in charity work and it would
surprise nobody if she made a farewell gesture
to Spain, announcing a gift of a couple of
shiploads of Argentine wheat for the people
of Spain.
The question of what it all means is a
matter of guesswork. Senora Perdn’s visit
seems to be chiefly a spectacular goodwill
mission. She has been handling it magnificently.
The rest of her party stay out of the picture
and all attention is focused on her and on
Franco and Senora Franco.
If she can last the course, however, she will
have had such a tour of Spain as nobody else
ever had, while Franco, for his part, will
have a little firmer grip on future wheat
supplies.
Another of Brewer’s reports —strikingly
different from practically everything that
gets into cables about Spain—would seem
to suggest that the Senora’s visit is helping
to further what U.N.O.’s clever men in
their wisdom started: the making of
New Hampshire (U.S.A .) “Morning-Union!"
"THE GRASS IS ALWAYS GREENER..."
Franco’s dictatorship hold on Spain
doubly secure. Even before the Senora
came along to help on the emotional
side, Brewer had reported Franco as now
“stronger than at any time in the last
year, at least.”
Asserting that that statement was “not
based on any personal views about the
rights or wrongs of what goes on in
Spain, but on a careful study of the situ-
ation based on conversations with those
who support and those who, to put it
mildly, do not support the Caudillo,”
Brewer confessed:
Two months ago this correspondent, although
not daring to prognosticate, believed that Don
Juan held the whip hand so firmly that
Generalissimo Franco in the end would have
to meet his terms. Today nobody except
dyed-in-the-wool supporters even talks about
Don Juan,
Perhaps a little ambiguously, but at any
rate discouragingly to wishful thinking.
Brewer concluded his report on Franco:
“It is quite possible that he will live out
his life as dictator of Spain.”
U.S. “TRUSTEESHIPS.”
Looking back on America’s applica-
tion for the Pacific islands trusteeships,
N.Y. “Herald Tribune” has resorted to
irony in commenting on how, “with a
unanimity rare in issues of such import-
ance,” U.N.O.’s solemn Security Council
said Yes:
If it hadn’t, as the United States delegate
made rather painfully clear, the United States
would have kept them anyway. The net result
is that the United States acquires virtually as
complete and unchallengeable control over the
islands as any which could have been secured
by “right” of conquest.
The improvement which this procedure repre-
sents over the immoral practices of the past
will be immediately apparent. After the first
world war Japan acquired the islands under
a restricted mandate from the League of
Nations. In order to close them to the world,
monopolize their scanty resources and develop
their potentialities as military bases, Japan
was forced to violate th« mandate and to resort
to numerous evasive and undignified expedients
to conceal what she was doing. Such things are
no longer necessary. As strategic trustee, the
United States is now explicitly authorised to
do everything in the islands which the Japanese
did and without having to adopt the subter-
fuges which they employed.
Indeed, we have been almost excessively
“correct.” We refrained, as an interested party,
from voting on the proposed amendments to
the trusteeship agreement, merely making it
plain that if the vote went against us we
would withdraw the application. We were so
anxious not to have to use our veto power
in possible future questions of modification
or termination of the trusteeship that we in-
sisted upon a provision which would prevent
such questions from ever coming before the
Security Council at all without our consent.
This is, no doubt, an impressive testimonial
to the new reign of law in international affairs,
upon which the United States has so often
based its policies. But somehow it does seem
as though it could have been a little more so.
In other words —like U.N.O.’s handling
of Britain’s case against Albania for the
mining of British ships, and other such
U.N.O. activities —absurd humbug from
beginning to end.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Russia Stands Out. Mr. Ward, spouting
away in his inimitable style at Geneva, said he
would “like to discuss with Russia her reason
for not sending delegates to the 1.L.0.” Pass-
ing over the engaging spectacle of Mr. Ward
having a discussion with Russia, the member
for East Sydney shouldn’t stop at the 1.L.0.
He should make what his genius can of
Russia’s also staying out of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisa-
tion, World Bank and Monetary Fund, Food
and Agricultural Organisation, International
Refugee Organisation and World Health
Organisation—all of them dedicated to trying
to improve the lot of mankind,
*,* * *
Soaring Divorce. —British divorce figures, as
given by a London correspondent of Washing-
ton “Post”: “In 1911, British Courts granted
only 562 absolute divorces. By 1941 the
number had risen to 6249. Last year the num-
ber soared to more than 40,000, and the Gov-
ernment has estimated that the 1947 figure will
exceed 50,000.” Two causes have helped boost
the figures—some lowering in the cost of getting
a divorce (once prohibitive to poor people) and
the law enacted in 1938 adding new grounds
(cruelty, desertion, etc.) on which divorce
applications could be based.
* * * *
Irish Greyhounds. —A few years back there
was a hound racing on Sydney tinhare tracks
called Eire for Ever. It now seems that Ireland
could return the compliment to the hounds.
As “Collier’s” reports it: “The fastest-growing
business in the history of Ireland is the breed-
ing of racing greyhounds for foreign trade.
The value of the shipments increased from
$38,000 in 1933 to $4,060,000 in 1946, the total
exports for the period comprising 48,175 dogs
valued at $11,988,000.”
*,* * *
Army Blackmarketeers. —Leaving for whoever
is competent to do it the passing of righteous
judgment or pointing the moral, the facts on
a spot or two of illicit trading by troops is
reported by “United States News”: “Black-
market operations of U.S. troops in Germany
and Japan, including theft and resale of
U.S. goods, will cost U.S. taxpayers at least
$1,000,000,000. The British Government re-
ports that similar operations by its troops in
Germany alone are costing nearly $250,000,000.
Censorship still hides the full U.S. story.”
* * * *
Trouble-spot Trieste. —At the signing of the
“peace” treaties in Washington there must
have been some hard thinking on the sacrificing
of principles for expediency, particularly re-
garding Trieste, which, a N.Y. “Times” corres-
pondent points out, is a more strategic position
than Salonica (within the orbit of the “Truman
doctrine” policy): “It is clearer now than when
the Trieste compromise was made that the
‘free territory’ can be international only if
the Yugoslavs permit it to be and that they
will not permit it if they can help it. They
control all the exits and entrances and can
choke it off at will from the lands in central
Europe on which its existence hangs. Add
to the Italian Communist minority in Trieste
the pro-Tito Slovene minority, and Yugoslav
infiltration and pressure, and Tito’s declaration
that the international regime is only a ‘tem-
porary solution’ becomes more than an idle
boast. Nobody on the spot doubts that he
will take if he can a gateway that leads so
conveniently to the valley of the Danube on
one side and on the other to the agricultural
and industrial heart of Italy. Some observers
predict that the Kremlin will strike back at
the Truman policy not in Greece or Turkey
but in Italy. Whether that is true or not, the
Communists are making greater gains in that
stony soil than anywhere else in Europe.”
* * * ♦
Calling the Kettle Black. —Looking back on
it, “Collier’s” “got a wry grin” out of the
U.N.O. discussion of General Smuts’s proposal
for taking over South-west Africa. The grin
came from one of the reasons for turning the
proposal down that race discrimination is
practised in the Union of South Africa: “That,
it was argued, was most reprehensible; and on
this and other counts the Union of South
Africa was held unworthy to take over. In
this condemnation U.S. voices joined with
much self-righteous horror and outrage. The
episode pretty much writes its own editorial—
which is that citizens of a nation which permits
manifold discriminations against its own colored
people have a cast-iron nerve waggling cen-
sorious fingers at some other nation which does
the same thing.”
• » • •
Soviet Concealment. —The “concealment” ex-
amined by Paul de Hevesy in a Washington
“Post” article is wholly of a negative kind —
hiding, not strength, bfit weakness. The writer
mentions that in 1936 Russia joined the Inter-
national Institute of Agriculture in Rome, but
withdrew before furnishing any of the details
of crops, yields, production costs and buying
and selling prices which membership of the
institute involved. Had that data been pro-
vided, “it would have been impossible for the
Soviet Government to conceal that nowhere
else in the world does the farmer receive less
for his grain and the worker pay more for
his bread than in Russia.” The concealment
policy is most effective in withholding the truth
from Ivan himself: “The Russian farmer, from
whom all knowledge of the outside world is
withheld, would be astonished to learn that
three farmhands in Great Britain perform more
than do 12 in Russia, that a British acre pro-
duces more than four times as much grain as
a Russian acre.”
* * * *
Not Corns., Only Saps. —Commenting on the
.U.S. “anti-Red crusade,” the “Saturday Even-
ing Post” suggests that “Before we [Americans]
put on our pink coats and start off yoicks and
hell-bent on a national Red hunt” it might be
as well to put the main blame in the right
place: “Responsibility for our present mess
does not belong to the Communists. Much of
it is the result of the fatuity, bad guessing and
foolish optimism of political leaders, most of
whom are anti-Communist. The ‘Great De-
sign’ which formed the basis for President
Roosevelt’s concessions to Stalin at Tehran
and Yalta was not the product of a Com-
munist conspiracy, but the result of the global
thinking of a man whose self-confidence had
outrun his historical sense. Partly because of
a long series of high policy decisions in
Washington and London, resulting in unneces-
sary concessions to Stalin in the final months
of the war, the world is confronted with a
vast extension of Soviet power. All this doubt-
less gratifies the Communists, but none of it
was their work. All Stalin needed was a group
of American politicians who had fallen for
their own propaganda. Party members did
infiltrate into the Government, from which
point of vantage they were able to sneak out
favors to their friends and threats of deporta-
tion, and so on, to their ideelogical foes. But
the officials who protected Communists in
these jobs because it was ‘policy’ not to irritate
Russia were not Communists, only saps.”


iO
m
m
x
zm&tJLny ■si£aJks~
you- w/
TARZANS GRIP
y/i£ MnMA&>isa£
MENDS AND FIXES ALMOST ANYTHING-
BROKEN CHINA • KITCHEN UTENSILS • FURNITURE •
WOODWORK • ANTIQUES • JEWELLERY • LUGGAGE
• LEATHERWARE • TOYS • FABRICS • CAN/AS
• FAMILY HEIRLOOMS • LEAKY CAR RADIATORS •
GASOLINE TANKS • GLASS TO OTHER MATERIALS
• MODEL AEROPLANES • A host of things too
to mention.
#.
TUBE
EVERYWHERE
\ •Vie'' v, J
LOOK FOR
THIS
TRADE MARK
Toe.ea.s7
■
■
vi-4
■
On the left: Terra-cotta facing
units.
Below: Fixing Terra-cotta facing
in situ.
(tdeauty,
d
an
p
eemanence ;
/
Whatever the future trend of architectural design, Wunderlich Terra-cotta
Facing will still be the pre-eminent material for beautifying and protecting
the facades of monumental buildings.
Lustrous, vitrified Terra-cotta facing ensures permanent colour, and resis-
tance to all atmospheric elements which disfigure and disintegrate.
The manufacture of Wunderlich Terra-cotta Facing will be resumed this
year; meanwhile enquiries from architects are invited. Visit our show-
rooms or ’phone or write. Tel.: MX 2411. G.P.O. Box 474.
Terra-cotta
I THB COLOURFUL CERAMIC FACING
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON, HOBART, PERTH: H. L. BRISBANE & WUNDERLICH LTD.
Capstan
is a
grand cigarette for
all occasions-
Capstan’s own blend
of fine Virginia
leaf cannot
be equalled
9 :
That’s why it’s always
TIME FOR A CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE’S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
«80D«.4?
IXL - AJC
OK -VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies;—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3517
Wednesday, July 9, 1947
SECRET WEAPON.
"I can't recommend to Ministers that present methods of war be scrapped and replaced by pushing buttons."-Field-Marshal Montgomery, at Canterra.
“Your Eighth-Army and D-Day ideas were all very well m then day. NOW all you've got to do is to sew these DU
as you require.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
A BIG BLUFF CALLED.
It did not need a major prophet to de-
cide in advance what was likely to be the
result of the Paris conference on Ameri-
can aid to Europe. The generous
Marshall plan had been welcomed whole-
heartedly in Western Europe, but after
Moscow Radio’s reception of it the un-
luckiest punter at Robbery Park could
have put 100 to one on failure as the
certainty of his life. In fact, the only
reason which induced Marshal Stalin to
send his horde of plenipotentiaries to
Paris, headed by Comrade Molotov,
seemed to be that the conference promised
to provide another satisfying entertain-
ment at which, in the presence of batteries
of Klieg lights and mobs of press boys,
the Moscow delegates could trumpet their
distrust of the “imperialist” world and
descant on “capitalist aggression” and
Russian “democracy.”
It must have been a nasty surprise to
Comrades Molotov and Stalin, that events
did not take the routine course. Mr.
Bevin insisted that the discussions should
be carried on without either the help
of Klieg lights or press boys. Vainly the
Kremlin objected in the bitterest terms
*to the Kremlin’s own normal method of
procedure.
In the swiftness with which Mr. Bevin’s
method brought a showdown and the
cards of all parties on the table, the
secrecy justified itself. Without the
temptation to talk and posture the con-
ference came to a quick end, leaving the
Russians boiling with rage and their
position exposed for all the world to see.
The British put forward proposals
which all must have known wbuld be
fully acceptable to the United States Gov-
ernment and which, as the Russians were
stunned to find, also had French support:
a plan for the recovery of Europe as a
whole, to be based on the findings of a
“steering committee,” representative of
Britain, Russia, France and not more than
four other countries. The committee was
to examine the power for self-recovery of
various sagging States, and decide how
far they could help themselves and what
extraneous help they would fairly need.
The plan was so reasonable that it was,
difficult either to criticise it in principle
or to refuse it to a continent threatened
with starvation, and with the return of
barbarism. But the Russians had the face
to declare that it would “inevitably result
in the imposition of the will of a
stronger Power on small States”;
would “constitute a violation of
sovereignties and disrupt the peace of
.Europe and cause economic friction
among European countries.”
To the Russian mind this, of course,
was unthinkable. Having dominated
Finland, Rumania, Hungary, Bulgaria,
Poland, Yugoslavia and Albania, and
swallowed Latvia, Lithuania, Carpathian
Riithenia,- Estonia, Bessarabia and a few
more large parcels of earth, besides over-
running Czechoslovakia, the U.S.S.R. has
never done anything so obnoxious as to
impose its will on a weaker Power or
violate That is, unless the
weaker Power gave its formal consent to
being dominated, overawed or gobbled
up in the presence of a multitude of
witnesses, consisting of well-armed corps
of the Red Army, and fully mobilised
railway services ready to take dissenters
to Siberia or the cemetery.
No discord has ever arisen in European
countries through an initial act of th»
U.S.S.R., though the U.S.S.R. has always
shown itself engagingly ready to support,
with money and arms, local patriots with
whom it has no connection, save that
their leaders were Commissars, straight
out of the U.S.S.R. Foreign Office. And
economic friction among European
countries is something entirely foreign
and anathema to the relationships of
Russia, which, however, has no qualms
about creating it with warmongering
capitalist Governments like that of British
Labor, as distinct from their oppressed
nations. As everybody who reads
“Pravda” knows, the discomfiture of such
tyrannous Administrations is hailed by
the toiling masses everywhere with un-
concealed glee, and as part of their own
programme of liberation from bondage.
The Russian plan proposed at Paris
was to allow all countries to determine
their own needs. That would mean, in
effect, that Russia would do the deciding
for them east of the Elbe, the results
being referred to a cunningly constructed
series of committees centring in a “com-
mittee of assistance,” which would co-
ordinate the requests, in linkage with the
European Economic Council of U.N.O.
The result would be handed to Uncle
Sam as a requisition.
From the Russian point of view this
programme had all the advantages, since
it would give the Kremlin control of the
food and other material resources
provided by the Americans and strengthen
its hold over the political struc-
ture of Eastern Europe. The Kremlin’s
satellites, on receiving American help,
could also distribute it as their own, as
they did with U.N.R.R.A. supplies.
The British scheme, on the other hand,
has every disadvantage for the Russians
since it would certainly give the Western
Powers a great political leverage, the
most popular argument in nearly every
country of the Continent at present being
a loaf of bread. Communism, which can-
not feed even Eastern Europe, and which
has been receiving “capitalist” alms for
two of the most populous Soviet re-
publics, would lose many of its charms if
a generous stranger who could and did
feed Eastern Europe were to appear.
Far sooner than have that happen the
Soviet bosses would see Europe sink into
chaos. That, as they believe, also would
have advantages from their point of view,
since chaos and famine are always Com-
munism’s reaping hooks, and disaster in
.this case could be blamed on the wicked
Western democracies.
Unfortunately for whatever schemes
Marshal Stalin and his Presidium have
concocted, they have met their match.
Even while the meeting was in progress
there was not the usual tactful lull in
diplomatic circles. The British Ambas-
sador in Moscow was asking awkward
questions about Hungary. Mr. Austin,
the U.S. delegate to the abortive Security
Council of U.N.O. —the proceedings of
which are hamstrung by the Russian
veto on every vital occasion—was declar-
ing that Moscow’s satellites, Yugoslavia,
Albania and Bulgaria, were all violating
U.N.O. principles by using force against
Greece, and so were primarily responsible
for Balkan disorder, being “guilty of acts
as bad as actual invasion.”
This very strong speech ended with
the warning that the future of U.N.O.
might depend on how the Greek case was
settled, and that the Atlantic Charter
contemplated “enforcement of action”*
where peace was not possible. There fol-
lowed an equally strong statement by
General Marshall, who denounced
the grossly insulting and dishonest sug-
gestion of the official Russian Tass
Agency that the United States had “im-
perialist” aims, and that it had offered
starving Europe its assistance “in order
to fasten upon the recipients some form
of political domination”:
Our purposes are distorted, our motives
impugned and our traditions and institu-
tions decried and smeared. This is the
thanks we are getting for having poured
82 million tons of goods into Europe
since the end of the \yar No political
parties subservient to United States interests
have been left behind in European
countries to attempt the conquest of the
Government within. No American agents
have sought to dominate the police estab-
lishments of European countries. No joint
American-European companies have been
forced upon reluctant Governments.
This was tantamount to serving notice
on Moscow that American patience is
exhausted, and that Europe is not to be
allowed to drift into ruin for the benefit
of Communism.
General Marshall gave a warning of
this in May, when, quoting a slab of
Stalin humbug, “It is necessary to
have patience about the German and
Austrian treaties, and not to become
pessimistic,” he said: “Action cannot
await compromise through exhaustion,”
and “something must be done to
meet pressing problems without delay.”
The New York “Times,” for its part,
had declared that the stalemate over
Germany and Austria was part of a
world-wide pattern:
That pattern has no longer anything to
do with security. It is obviously set by the
two primary impulses which determine
Russian policy a traditional im-
perialism and a fanatical Communism,
operating under a dictatorial Government,
which sees the non-Soviet world as an
enemy and envisages World revolution;
enlarging these purposes in proportion to
any display of weakness in potential oppon-
ents, giving ground when confronted with
real opposition, as in Iran and Trieste.
General Marshall obviously agrees
wholeheartedly and so does Mr. Bevin.
When Mr. Molotov rejected the pro-
posals offered at Paris, saying that “the
Soviet Government considered it neces-
sary to caution the Governments of
France and Britain against the conse-
quences of going ahead without Russia,”
Mr. Bevin, instead of blenching, stoutly
remarked that “my country has faced
grave consequences and threats before,
but that is not the sort of prospect which
will deter us from doing what we con-
sider our duty.”
Mr. Molotov’s arguments are based on
complete misrepresentation of everything
the British submitted at the conference.
And the representative of France, the
France which Moscow has long believed
to be captive in the hands of its Com-
munist agents Thorez and Duclos, spoke
in almost equally blunt terms. This must
have come to the Russians like a shower
of icy water.
So begins a new era in European
diplomacy, and the reconstruction of the
shattered continent is no longer a dream.
There is a great deal to be done, but
the way is paved for independent action
by the Western nations to end the war-
caused chaos which Moscow policy con-
tinued —no longer indefinitely. At no
distant date the clumsy fellows at
Moscow who thought they were so clever,
and never so clever as when they made
the double-crossing agreement with Hitler
which brought them the horrors of in-
vasion and seven million Russian dead,
will have to reckon with hostile move-
ments in some of the very countries on
which they fastened their despotism, and
in which they are hated for their Oriental
duplicity, cruelty and rapine.
The 40-hour-week Fraud.
With all Australia watching, and Can-
berra Ministers crossing their fingers as
they re-read their leader’s “recession”
forecasts, the 40-hour week was in-
augurated in the Commonwealth’s chief
industrial State on July 1. The unions
immediately justified Colonel Bruxner’s
challenge to the State Minister for No
Labor and No Industry when the bill
was going through the Assembly—the
Minister, he said, had not the courage to
admit that the measure represented a
surrender to unions’ demands for reduc-
tion of the working week to five days.
As soon as July 1 dawned that is what
one union after another declared that it
meant, with strikes to make it stick.
The fatuous Mr. McGirr.in his N.S.W.
election manifesto on May 3 pledged his
political reputation on the assurance that
everything would be fine and dandy, the
“Government” being “wholly dedicated
to the promotion of prosperity, progress
and well-being in every section of the
community.” He promised in particular:
Ninety thousand houses in three years.
Complete modernisation of railway and
street transport, and of country transport.
For city housewives, relief from war-
created difficulties; for country dwellers,
a fuller share of the amenities of city life.
No unemployment, no inflation, no de-
pression, full opportunities for youth.
No bureaucratic barriers —“red tape will
be cut and bottlenecks smashed.”
Removal of causes of unrest.
It was on this last that the 40-hour week
was to work like magic. While it now
proceeds to work like the craziest obstruc-
tion ever thrown into the industrial
machine, let the electors ponder Mr. Mc-
Girr’s own underlined words;
Labor’s election pledges were formulated
after the closest possible examination of all
relevant factors—financial, economic, and
social. They were given after serious de-
liberation, in course of which the ability
of this State to finance a truly construc-
tive policy was gauged with the utmost care.
But what this Premier, inebriated with
the exuberance of his own verbosity, did
not divulge—it came out with a rush on
the very day the 40-hour fraud was
launched on the public—was the bill
people would have to meet, in first costs
alone.
That day it was revealed that the
Government trams and buses which
“serve” Sydney and Newcastle had, for
the year to June 30, been operated at a
loss of £603,000, and fares went up that
day—another penny a trip on every
route, rising to threepence a trip in some
cases, “concession” fares for shoppers
having simultaneously been abolished.
That day, also, the Railway Depart-
ment confessed a loss of £1,500,000 for
the year in which the Golden Age was
promised. With another £3,000,000 or
£4,000,000 to be added to annual ex-
penditure by wage-rises and the 40-hour
week, there will have to be massive in-
creases in fares and freight-rates—the
Commissioner is already asking for 20
p.c. more.
Electricity and gas, bills will assuredly
go up, too. The County Council has
announced that there is no other way of
meeting the extra electricity bill of
£350,000 a year entailed by reduced work-
ing hours.
The general estimate of the price all
citizens in N.S.W. will have to pay for the
“blessing” of increased leisure looks like
measuring up at least to what the Tas-
manian “Labor” Premier says of the effect
of the same “blessing” in his own State —
20 per cent, higher costs of everything.
“The five-day week,” says Mr. Cosgrove,
with remarkable equanimity, “applies so
far only to Government employees, with
the exception of railway workers, and to
Hobart. We are pledged to extend it to
the whole State. Then costs will rise
higher, but we hope” —hope is his word
—“they will be gradually reduced as we
extend mechanisation.”
This would be what Mr. Chifley calls
“comic opera” if it were not so catastro-
phic. As for removing “the causes of
unrest,” the N.S.W. “Government’s” own
dockyard at Newcastle was the scene of
the first strike, because the men there
wanted the 40-hour roster altered to fit
five days. The Railwaymen’s Union
threatened to stop all work one day every
week from July 14 onwards unless the
five-day rule was made mandatory. Gas-
men and restaurant and hotel employees
and shop assistants all threatened direct
action with the same demand. And the
Communist-run Ironworkers said they
would ignore the B.H.P.’s 40-hour rosters
drawn up for preservation of the plant,
and would even boycott the Industrial
Commission’s hearing to settle the new
week in orderly fashion.
The secondary costs of the 40-hour
fraud are thus* beyond present computa-
tion. That production is not to be in-
creased, as Minister Hamilton Knight
prophesied in fatuous reliance on “a more
contented labor market” or even main-
tained, is shown by the attitude of rail-
way-carriage cleaners, who complained
that they were actually expected to do
the same amount of work as during 44
hours. Their union promptly threatened
the public with week-end reprisals—
dirtier trains, no porters and delayed
parcels. The problems of employers
faced with 40-hour State awards and 44-
hour Federal awards in the same factory
could surely have been foreseen ; yet only
late in the week did the Prices Commis-
sioner get to work on “a formula”
whereby employers who volunteered to
treat all hands on the same footing would
not be prejudiced in any future applica-
tion for a consequential rise in prices.
So much for N.S.W. “Labor’s” “closest
possible examination” in advance of “all
relevant factors.” In plain fact, the
McGirrs computed nothing—and dare
no longer pretend that they worked
anything out. They simply decided on an
election bribe and hoped for the best. They
are now faced with the bankruptcy of all
their transport services, concealment or
> self-delusion being no longer possible,
and they have already discovered that
they have produced no contentment
among the unions, since costs of living
will soon annul any benefit unionists were
supposed to receive from work- and
tax-reductiorl. Mr. McGirr’s Caucus,
which went through the solemn play-
acting of several days’ session in camera
to study the necessity of a rise in tram
fares, will now repeat the farce over
railway fare- and freight-increases —mean-
while making what it can of the
engaging decision of the railway restaurant
employees to “call on the Federal Gov-
ernment to prevent a rise in prices be-
cause of the 40-hour week.”
Before long the unions will be com-
plaining, along with the- drawers of old-
age, invalid and widows’ pensions (all up
on July 1), that they have been sold a pup.
The trouble can be expected to spread
because Mr. McGirr’s legislation was
aimed partly at confronting the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court (which has still
to deliver judgment on the 40-hour-week
case) with an accomplished fact. It is
true that the consequential costs to the
community might be countered if labor
everywhere would put its back into the
job, taking the shorter week as an in-
centive, and really help production. No-
thing else will save the national recon-
struction programme, from that essential
feature, home-building, downwards. But
if the unions are going to follow the
gospel preached by the building workers’
executive untier Mr. Bulmer —that of
ranking militancy as an aim before work-
ing output —then the standard of
living must continue to decline and
women and children will be the worst
sufferers.
Nurses and domestics, already all too
few in numbers, cannot have a five-day
week; domestics indeed are exempted in
the N.S.W. Act. And the five-day week
for the husband will only make life harder
for the wife, as well as for the war
widow, in whose case the ss. a week
added to her scurvy allowance —it was
£2 10s. a week in most cases —is already
a heartless fake. Whoever else' strikes,
goes slow or sets a “darg” on output,
housewives are expected to carry on as
usual. As Colonel Bruxner said in the
N.S.W. Assembly debate:
The working man’s wife will begin to
reckon up whether it is worth paying so
much more just to have her husband home
for four extra hours each week.. ...There is
no 40-hour week for the women, who have
to stand in queues, carry home their daily
needs and then work long hours in the
home.
No intelligent housewife can believe that
queues and rationing can be abolished,
and home deliveries of comestibles be
restored, if production is actually de-
creased. Every unionist’s wife has
learned by bitter experience that every
time the wharfies refuse to unload ships
or the miners to hew coal, every time
the essential industries in a complex
community stop work because some union
wants to put pressure on the Govern-
ment, she has to work and worry a bit
harder. One of these days housewives
may strike for better consideration from
their particular boss or Government;


and then Communists and fellow-
travellers will wonder what has hit them.
For the housewife, as well as the war
widow, the 40-hour week is a fraud. She
will find that out in higher milk and
butter bills —potatoes are already dearer —
as well as in higher tram and train fares,
and in the results of higher freight-rates,
shipping as well as railway. But it is
a fraud primarily on the nation as a
whole, at a time when the restoration
of production in every commodity from
the war-time shortage is essential for
prosperity, and at a time, too, when the
European nations, struggling against
famines in food and the raw materials of
industry, look to the countries spared
the actual destruction of war to help
them recover by speeding up world-trade
in the staples of commerce.
Supremely stupid, too, because if Europe
fell White Australia could not stand.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Are You There, McKell?
In 1917 Mr. William John McKell
entered the N.S.W. Parliament as M.L.A.
for Redfern. He defeated an old Labor
Premier who had a son at the war which
Mr. McKell, an active footballer, did not
attend, and who was suspected of sup-
porting conscription, though at the time
he was so ill that he could take no part
in the campaign. Even then Redfern was
a slummy suburb, and in course of time
it became slummier; but its 1917-46
member and resident never lifted a finger
to arrest the process. Nor, though he
was in office for nearly 12 years, just on
six of them as Premier, did he ever cause
a single modern tram to be built. It is a
stark fact that many Government tram-
waymen, always faithful to “Labor,”
have met death in some form or other on
the barbarous footboard, and a local
clergyman has asserted that there has
been shocking preventible mortality in
reeking Redfern slums.
During the Japanese war Mr. McKell
was occupied in setting up a racing club,
and in adding to the Statute Book a so-
called “liquor-reform” measure which
gives legal sanction to the tied-house in-
iquity and admits of licences being trans-
ferred from over-pubbed districts to
districts which don’t want pubs, and
which have to resort to all manner
of expedients to repel the intrusion,
being denied local option. The
Japanese war over, Mr. McKell and party
busied themselves with introducing pen-
sions for Assemblymen who have served
in three or more Parliaments, the lowest
pension being twice that of the war
widow, and the highest in excess of the
pension doled out to any war-wrecked
serviceman. At the same time, Mr.
McKell, though effusive of promises to
servicemen in need of dwellings and
farms, left many thousands of men with-
out houses or even housing materials
(though his racing club could get anything
its builder asked for) and provided hold-
ings for only a hundred or so would-be
soldier-farmers. Nevertheless he was
appointed Governor-General and Com-
mander-in-Chief —God save the mark!
Towards the end of the fifth month of
the financial year which ended on June
30, Mr. McKell introduced his last
Budget. In this he stated that “payments
to the State by the Commonwealth under
the State Grants (Tax Reimbursement)
Act” would go up from £15,356,000 to
£16,477,000, and that the Commonwealth
Hospital Benefits Act would give the
State another £1,270,000. He anticipated
an increased revenue from all sources of
£2,150,000; and, reverting complacently
to past surpluses which were wholly the
effect of Commonwealth Government
benevolence, he promised the community
another surplus of £15,427. The Gov-
ernment railways, he said, would show
a credit balance of £158,000.
Mr. McKell was succeeded as Premier
by Mr. McGim That gentleman’s report
is that there was a deficit of £1,852,476,
and he has probably understated it. On
the Government trains there was a loss
of £1,500,000 —again probably under-
stated. And all this with the 40-hour
week still to be financed somehow.
But Mr. McKell needn’t worry. He is
safe at Yarralumla for the next four or
five years—that is, unless his party falls
in the meantime, and unless another Gov-
ernment recommends the King to give
the country another Governor-General.
The Widow v. the Rest,
Dr. Evatt announced with pride that
Australia’s contributions to U.N.R.R.A.
amounted to £24,000,000, and that there
was £4,000,000 more to be spent. A
Manufacturers’ Association official esti-
mated the loss to Australian trade
through the maritime unions’ boycott of
Dutch shipping at £30,000,000. Thus in
two avenues alone the country has given
away or lost £54,000,000, mainly for the
promotion of the Communist conspiracy
and for the benefit of Communist-ridden
countries as unfriendly as they are un-
grateful, Meanwhile Commonwealth
politicians have entered upon the enjoy-
ment of the additional £5OO a year voted
to them by the “Labor” majority.
Meanwhile also war widows, led by the
widow of Major-General Vasey, herself
a heroic figure, continue to press their
claims on a forgetful nation whose “Gov-
ernment,” so generous to itself and its
pals, fobbed them off with £2 10s. a week,
increased on July 1 by a beggarly ss.
which has already faded into thin air.
Mrs. Vasey was the principal speaker
at a Melbourne Town Hall meeting
attended by 2000 war widows from many
parts of Victoria. With warm feeling
and a wealth of moving arguments, she
asked that compensation to widows of
servicemen should be not less than the
basic wage—already provided in N. S.
Wales and Victoria, more in most cases,
for retired and defeated Assemblymen—
that “medical and educational benefits
offered through the Repatriation Com-
mission be made genuinely effective,”
and that “accrued recreational pay earned
by men from July 1, 1942, to April 1,
1945, should be paid to their widows in-
stead of being kept by the Treasury.”
If the war widows don’t get what they
fairly want there should be a lot of
political hangings at the next Common-
wealth election ; but prospects are that
they will succeed. They have not only
an unanswerable case but a leader with
eloquence, conviction and determina-
tion.
IRON-CURTAIN LECTURE.
“Vishinsky says women shouldn’t be allowed to leave the U.S.S.R. because they
talk too much. How did you get out?”
U.S.A. Shows the Way.
Out of Australian newspaper offices and
radio stations, which are stiff with Leftists
of all shades, came reports which events
have falsified that the American
workers were universally in revolt
against the Labor-Management Re-
lations Act, which became law as the re-
sult of an overpowering Republican-
Democrat combination against which the
President’s veto was powerless. Mel-
bourne’s “Age,” mentioning that the
authors of the measure were goaded to
action by “500 work stoppages during
the 1946 reconversion period,” has
jotted down some of its salient points:
It requires a 60-days cooling-off period
before a strike or lockout can be called.
It makes unions liable for damages
caused by jurisdictional strikes, secondary
boycotts and violations of contracts.
It prohibits Communist and Communist
sympathisers from holding union office.
It authorises injunctions against certain
union practices and against strikes that
imperil the national health or safety.
Of course the Act has a much wider
range and sweep.
The “Age” recently published a letter
from a carpenter who gave reasons for
“the growing opposition of rank-and-
file members to the policy pursued by
union officials.” A carpenter had been
fined £2 for “criticism of a balance
sheet”; another had.been fined £lO for
“writing a letter to the daily press,” and
officials had “refused to accent a decision
of members against striking.” All such
examples of unbridled tyranny —and them
are and have been many others —have be-
come unlawful under the American Act,
and so have the persistent refusals of
union executives, winked at in this
country, to prepare and publish state-
ments of revenue and expenditure, though
this is required by Commonwealth indus-
trial law and by State industrial law —at
least in N. S. Wales.
The American embargo on Communist
aqd fellow-traveller union bosses drew
from Harry Bridges, described as “the
Australian-born leader of the Pacific
Coast longshoremen,” though his ap-
pearance suggests a Whitechapel origin,
the threat that his serfs would “fight
back by organising, striking and picket-
ing ; if we have to swing into action we
will show what action means.” About the
same time Mr. Ward, furious at the
threats to his Communist friends, de-
livered an attack on the measure and on
America from the security of the 1.L.0.
Conference at Geneva. No doubt the
withers of the Republicans and Demo-
crats who introduced the law and passed
it over the President’s veto were
unwrung. The Republicans in particular
have undying memories of the Civil War,
which came about in consequence of the
uncontested seizure of power by minori-
ties. They are not taking any chance of
another civil war under new forms.
With the Communist Thornton renew-
ing his war on B.H.P. and Australian
Iron and Steel, and with Dutch and
British shipping being attacked again by
the unions of which the Communists
Healy and Elliott are bosses (none of
these fellows is Australian by birth), Aus-
tralia has a pressing need for counter-
parts of this American law (another, now
in force in New York, makes dismissal
the penalty for any strike by Government
employees) lest it career into depression
and worse. It needs them also for the pro-
tection of the great body of rank-and-file
unionists, who are subjected to arbitrary
private taxation and are dragged unwill-
ingly into wasteful and wicked strikes be-
cause resistance would expose them to
the savage pains and penalties devised by
the new unwhipped larrikinism.
Redistributing the Wealth.
“Ex-gunner’s” survey of a shabby busi-
ness :
During the eight days from June 30 to July
7 the N.S.W. Government Lottery paid out
£101,900 in prize-money. In a State governed
by “Labor,” committed to a policy of Socialism
and a more equitable distribution of wealth,
this may seem commendable until it is realised
that the money was contributed by 500,000
ticket-holders and was distributed to something
like 7000, after the “Government” had come
in for a cut of £58,100. Lotteries take from
the many to give to the few.
The record pay-out was caused by an ex-
pansion of the lottery business, with an increase
in the first prize from £5OOO to £6OOO and
the introduction of a “big” lottery with a first
prize of £12,000. This innovation is a challenge
to the Queensland Government lotteries, which
are “foreign” i.e., illegal—in N. S. Wales.
Lotteries are illegal in all parts of the English-
speaking world except Australian States and
Eire, and of recent weeks South Africa and
Malaya have morosely objected to being flooded
with lottery tickets and prospectuses from these
parts. But “Labor” loves them.
The ushering in of the competition in Bigger
Lotteries is a fitting time for a stocktaking on
the results of 1500 minor N.S.W. lotteries.
It is impossible to get a complete picture,
as the individual “investors” are changing all
the time, but there is not much difference in
the mass between the participants in one draw-
ing and those in the next. There are Sydney
people who claim to have had a ticket m
every lottery, and as on probabilities these
should be better off than the casual “investor
it is interesting to study the results obtained
from assuming that the same 100,000 investors
had put up the money for every N.S.W.
“Government” lottery.
On this basis they would have paid into the
Lottery Office the staggering total of £39,375,000
and received back in “prizes” £-4,450,000, and
each one should have received approximately
19 prizes totalling £244 10s. As each one
would have paid in £393 155., this would leave
him £149 ss. out of pocket on his “invest-
ments.” But of course things don’t break
exactly even and someone has to win the
“major” prizes, thereby increasing the losses
of those who have to put up with “minor”
sops. In order to give the also-rans as favor-
able a return as possible, let me assume that no
winner of a major prize pulled in anything
bigger than a £5 prize among his other 18
draws. The results of the 100,000 seekers after
the pot of gold—notes, really—would then
work out something like this:
Net result.
1500 “Investors” each make £4696 profit.
1500 „ „ 696 „
1500 „ „ „ 196 „
1500 „ „ „ 4 loss.
The other 94,000 “investors" would show a
loss varying from £lB9 to £289 depending on
whether or not they were lucky enough to
include one of the middle-range prizes among
their tenners and fivers. As consolation they
would have the knowledge that their con-
tributions had helped 4.5 per cent, of their
number to come out on the right side of the
ledger and another 1.5 per cent, almost to
break even.
Possibly this thought together with the 1500
separate doses of expectation they have enjoyed
over the years might seem sufficient compen-
sation for the easy-going “investors," but it
is no justification for a Government to continue
a racket which is against all its professed
principles and which encourages shiftlessness on
an ever-increasing scale.
I ' 1 '♦ '■■■■
"The Towers."
“Nagheer”: Charters Towers (N.Q.)
celebrated its 75th birthday with a
week of rejoicings shared by many re-
turned wanderers from the old place.
Eighty-three miles westward from Towns-
ville and 1000 feet above sea-level, it
now lives mainly by cattle-breeding,
agriculture and fruit-growing on the
Burdekin River, another steady source
of income being provided by secondary
schools established on account of the
pleasant climate.
The vast grey mullock-heaps serve as
monuments to the days when the 737,280-
acre field yielded more gold than any
other in Queensland, and in 1895 more
than the whole year’s output of Wes-
tralia, though the Golden Mile was only
coming into production then. The record
yield was 319,572 ounces in 1899, and
the total to June, 1946, 6,780,088 ounces.
The decline began with 96,000 ounces in
1912, and the 1928 yield was a mere 147
ounces; then there was a gradual rise to
12,832 ounces in 1938. Cost of recovery
has long been a problem, and only one
large mine is still working.
So gone are the days when 30 pubs
strove to slake the thirst of more than
30,000 inhabitants and every Saturday
night was carnival time, with all
vehicular traffic stopped to allow room
for walking. But “The Towers” is any-
thing but a sold-out mining camp. Its
electoral population alone is reckoned at
7000.
Indian Transition.
Now that legislative assemblies in both
Bengal and the Punjab have voted by
emphatic majorities in favor of partition
of those provinces—West Bengal and
Eastern Punjab will adhere to Hindustan
and the rest to Pakistan—some concern
is being expressed about the future of
the Princes’ Native States and whether
their divisions may lead to the Balkanis-
ation of India.
There are 562 of these States, together
covering an area of 712,000 square miles
and containing over 93 millions of in-
habitants—roughly one-quarter of all
India’s peoples. Many of the small States
are embraced within larger States
commonly treated as one. Most of Raj-
putana, Patiala, Baroda, Gwalior, Cochin
and a score of smaller princedoms have
already joined the Hindu Constituent
Assembly. But Hyderabad, the premier
native State in India, and Travancore,
which has its own sea coast, have an-
nounced that they will declare inde-
pendence as soon as paramountcy lapses.
Hyderabad has 16 millions of people
and 91 per cent, are Hindu ; but its ruler
is the foremost upholder of Islam in the
country. Travancore is also predomi-
nantly Hindu, and has a Hindu ruler over
its six millions of people, among whom
there are many Christians. Its mineral
resources and its access to the sea en-
courage independent views.
In February and again last month the
British Government made it clear
that there is no -intention to hand
over the powers and obligations
exercised by the King-Emperor to any
successor Government in India: “the
rights surrendered by the States originally
to the paramount Power” (that is,
Britain) “will return to them.”
The Congress party apparently believes
that the State of Hindustan will be the
“natural heir” to the King-Emperor’s
paramountcy. The Moslem League has
made no such claim on behalf of
Pakistan.


Bi
ilHii
* t
You’ll appreciate their
Obtainable in 10’s & 2«’s
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
5739
•>
;
POLITICAL POINTS
“S. M. Herald” was right on the mark
with its prediction of “a major upheaval”
in the iron and steel industries “in the
first or second week of July.” It arrived
at the week-end, when the serfs of the
Ironworkers and the A.E.U. obeyed the
orders of the Communist Thornton for
refusal of Saturday work in spite* of a
State Industrial Court decision, of 44-
hour week Federal awards, of the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court’s hearing of
the 40-hour week case, of plaintive
Chifley and McGirr appeals, and of the
already calamitous lag in production of
wire, wire-rope, steel sheets and billets,
galvanised-iron and a host of other neces-
saries.
Told that the Saturday loaf would
mean a waste of fuel for blast furnaces,
and at Lysaght’s a four-day week, Thorn-
ton replied that it was “nothing to me.” It
would be something to the ruffian if Aus-
tralia had an industrial law like the one
passed by Congress, which moved Ward
to spit venom at the U.S.A. In that
case, Thornton, Elliott (Seamen’s Union),
Healy (Waterside Workers’ Federation)
and Williams (Coalminers), all immi-
grants, would be out, and three at least
candidates for deportation.
Our Foreign Policy is not only surly
to friends and servile to foes but disin-
genuous, and it receives disingenuous
support. Dr. Evatt, dutifully followed
by the pro-Evatt press, asserted that the
Jap - whaling and Angaur - phosphate
affairs were decided upon by the Ameri-
cans without reference to, poor old Aus-
trylia. In “a strongly-worded statement”
a spokesman for General MacArthur de-
clared that “both were matters of dis-
cussion between the interested Govern-
ments before S.C.A.P. was authorised by
the U.S. Government to approve of the
projects,” and that “as no new Allied
policy resulted from these discussions
administrative action by the United
States” was warranted in fulfilment of
its obligations under the occupation
terms:
It is accordingly incorrect to say that the
United States was acting unilaterally on
the basis of supplying the food deficit in
Japan, the burden of which would other-
wise have reacted on the American tax-
payer to the tune of 21 million dollars.
Published a week ago, this called for a
reply from Dr. Evatt and for comment
from the follow-Evatt press. Reply there
was none; comment, merely a scrap.
Melbourne “Age,” whose editor was
one of the Evatt party at the 1945 San
Francisco conference, joined in the scold-
ing of MacArthur and his Government;
Both the whaling and the Angaur
episodes underline the importance of estab-
lishing a set-up that would provide
machinery for collective decisions in the
permanent settlement.
Europe has had that sort of “machinery”
for two years. There have been no
“collective decisions” for Germany, and
until Marshall and Bevin called Russia’s
bluff “the permanent settlement” seemed
as far off as ever.
Chambers, the Minister of Forceps,
greeting Montgomery at Canberra;
Although it is many years since you
visited this country, you are well and
favorably known.
Priceless!
Speeding, the cause of most of the
road accidents, and the sport of the vilest
type of criminal unhanged, the hit-run
driver, was the cause of the railway smash
at Camp Mountain (Q.). The Inquiry
Board (Justice Mansfield, R. W. Hawker
and D. W. Trewin) held the driver chiefly
responsible, with the fireman and guard
partly to blame. Driver and fireman
were among the dead (16); the latter was
“tutoring” the man actually in charge of
the train and’ speed—reckoned at 35 to
40 m.p.h. on a 3ft. 6in. gauge, and that
at a curve —it being his first time on the
road. There was nothing wrong with
the engine, the Board says; there was
something radically wrong with deputing
a fireman to “tutor” the driver of a
packed train, and there will be no more
of that.
The Queensland Government is up for
compensation to the relatives of the 16
persons killed and to the 29 injured in
the Camp Mountain train-wreck. It sug-
gested setting a limit of £2OOO, as provided
for in a Railway Act which is older than
the oldest caravan on its lines. It wouldn’t
have dared to fly such a kite had the
accident preceded the election; and,
though public opinion has become very
languid in lottery States, it shouldn’t be
allowed to get away with it now.
Transferred from the Commonwealth
Department of Munitions to the Victorian
State Directorates of Building and
Materials Procurement (our bureaucracy
revels in polysyllables), S. H. Lang was
“retired” on June 30, but he immediately
became vocal. Stating that he had “con-
sistently granted outright preference in
building materials to ex-servicemen,” he
asserted that he had been “hampered by
excessive political interference and
favoritism,” instancing “building opera-
tions on tennis courts at Coburg”;
I issued a “stop” notice when 3299
super feet of timber and a quarter-ton of
wire-netting had been utilised, with three-
quarters of a ton necessary to complete
the courts. The “stop” notice was over-
ridden by Mr. Barry, the Housing Minister.
Barry replied that Lang was “silly and
inefficient,” and that the Lang allegations
were “wild, untrue and spiteful.” As if
that were not foolish enough, he issued a
statement, prepared in conjunction with
“Mr. Coleman, Minister in charge of
Building Materials,” to the effect that “a
special allocation of building materials
for the War Service Homes Commission,”
a count in the Lang indictment, had been
refused because it was “not in accordance
with” (“Labor”) “Government policy.”
That makes it certain that every ex-
serviceman will be on Lang’s side.
In a “review of the Victorian financial
position” Cain admitted that “the, 1946-47
railway deficit,” reckoned at £1,600,000,
was “a particularly sharp thorn in the
Treasury’s side,” but pleaded that Vic-
toria was “no worse off than any State.”
True enough ; too true, in fact. There
is not a Government railway system that
isn’t insolvent, nor does there look to
be one that can be made solvent.
A prediction that went the rounds of
daily newspaper offices was that R. G.
Casey would presently become Federal
president of the Liberal organisation, and
his appointment as president of a Vic-
torian branch, Berwick, is Bailed as part
verification. Another guess, as good, or.
better —or as bad —is that Casey will
come in at a by-election as M.H.R. for
Flinders, held since 1940 by his brother-
in-law Rupert Ryan, who is in the sixties.
Before the Queensland election a Q.P.P.
man reported favorably on semi-detached
houses being built by the S.A. Housing
Trust and let at low rents. Hanlon com-
mented that “Queenslanders do not like
semi - detached houses,” Opposition
members pointed out that Queenslanders
also were not keen on converted Army
huts, jstables, garages and tents, but
thousands were forced to put up with
them. Hanlon’s Housing Minister last
week announced a scheme for building
two-unit brick homes. Reasons: quicker
provision of accommodation and economy
in construction. You can’t beat these
“ ‘Labor’ Governments” for finding out
things.
The introduction of the 40-hour week
in N. S. Wales was marked by a strike
of Government dockyard employees in
Newcastle, who objected to the roster
drawn up by the management and by
threats of strikes on the insolvent Govern-
ment railways. These forms of insur-
rection have become unlawful in the
U.S.A., not only in the 48 States under
the new Federal law, but in the State of
New York, which has roughly twice the
population of Australia. Under an Act
passed by the New York Legislature, and
signed in due form by Governor Dewey,
“strikes by employees of the State or any
of its political subdivisions are out-
lawed” ; penalty, “automatic dismissal.”
Tacked on to a report of a Calwell
“press conference” in London:
The Ministry of Transport has agreed to
release the liner Asturias for carriage of
migrants— 1300 —on her next voyage to
Australia.
When it was published-in Melbourne the
Communists of the Seamen’s Union were
trying to hold up the Asturias by re-
fusing her tug service. This because the
master was alleged to have made “insult-
ing remarks” about Australian seamen
and watersiders, and to have refused
berths at Port Said to “54 seamen who
took the Katoomba to her new owners
in Greece,” and who “asked to see the
accommodation before accepting pas-
sages.” It will be awkward if the British
Minister tells Calwell he won’t get the
Asturias unless his “Government” takes a
fall out of the Communists and guarantees
the master tug service and a quick turn-
round.
Melbourne has never had a Town Hall
meeting like the one thronged by war
widows, nor has it ever been stirred and
disturbed by such arguments and illus-
trations as were presented by Mrs. George
Vasey with an eloquence that came from
the heart:
Not one of the men who died to keep
the Japanese from Australia thought of
bargaining for decent treatment for his
family before he left. He expected it.
Australia has failed him.
Australia’s wealth and future were paid
for in blood and sweat and tears. The
cruellest price of all was that of Wood.
The war widow paid the greatest price. Her
husband was worth to her at least what he
could earn.
If a man gave his services in a protected
industry he received a cheque and slept in
his own bed at night. If a man gave his
life the nation called him a hero. But
it gave his widow a shoddy badge and
ruined her and her family financially. The
wealth, high wages and comfort her hus-
band died to preserve were for the other
fellow, not for her and her children.
In excuse, people say life is above price
and you cannot pay for heartbreak. Why
add a slap in the face as well?
Could Major-General Vasey return to
the country for which he laid down his
life, he would be prouder than ever of
the woman who .shared his fortunes, and
whose victory in the cause of her sisters
is only a matter of time.
A Board having reported that “if
Queensland is to prosper as a tourist
State, it must revise some of its ideas on
night life,” a Brisbane newspaper got in
touch with Romano (or whatever his
name is), and found him voluble:
I am the pioneer of night life in Aus-
tralia, and if you alter your liquor laws
I might open business in Brisbane. Your
Tourist Department is right in suggesting
that •We have to revise our ideas of the
way in which the evening is to be spent.
Romano’s idea, of course, is that the
night, and as much dough as possible,
should be spent at Romano’s. This
“pioneer of night life in Australia” did
his “pioneering” in a State where the
liquor laws are as strict as, if not stricter
than, in Queensland —on paper. They
don’t seem to have hampered him as
much as did "a Taxation Department
prosecution and the sequel in October,
1939.
There was a time when Australian
“Labor”- could not hold a meeting with-
out someone quoting Tennyson’s “The
Parliament of Man, the Federation
of the World.” Every “school of
arts” in Australia has rung with it. The
international agency necessary to be set
up in Europe to carry into fruition the
sort of plan the American Government
contemplated might really have been the
beginning of such a movement. It is
now cleat that Communist Russia will
not have it at any price.
Along the mid-Murray old hands say
they haven’t seen the river so low for a
long time. The movable weir at Torrum-
barry, near Echuca, has been taken out
to give the failing stream its head. No
water is coming past Yarrawonga. The
Victorian tributaries are mostly “mere
gutters.” River-logging trade is at a
standstill until the steamers can move
again. This is one effect of the rainless
spell in Victoria. But denuded Victorian
tributaries are not the only trouble; the
Hume Dam is only two-thirds full, and
until the other third is made up no water
from the Snowy watershed will run over
the spillway.
Australians entitled to income-tax re-
funds are in future to receive cheques
with next assessments provided they
send tax stamps or group certificates with
their returns. This will be an improve-
ment, but there will still be no counter-
part of the system in force in Maoriland.
In that country the procedure is for a
taxpayer with a Savings Bank account to
fill out a withdrawal slip for the amount
of the tax:
The withdrawal slip marked by the
ledger clerk, the tax demand, savings-bank
book and withdrawal slip can be handed
to the teller, who will give a receipt for the
tax payment.
That ends the. matter, except for the
payment of interest—yes, interest, at
H p.c. p.a. for the period between pay-
ment and the date on which tax is due.
If any Australian suggested interest to
any tax-gatherer he would have a faint-
ing case on his hands.
Pithy statement on the position and
outlook in a 40-hour-week country:
The will to work is slackening. We are
short of everything, and ypt nationally we
are making no effort to repair those short-
ages. There can be no return to real
prosperity until we, as a people, realise
the necessity for honest work. We cannot
get increased production when there is no
effort to check excessive costs.
Dreadfully true of “Labor” in N.S.W.;
yet it was said of “Labor” in N.Z. by
George Stevenson, of Federated Farmers.
These “Labor” countries are very much
alike, the only difference being that N.Z.
doesn’t rely on “bigger ajid better” lot-
teries, not having any.
A trade-union to Housing Ministers: -
To build a row of cottages and then
ballot people into them may.be all right
in an emergency but will not satisfy for
very long. Temporarily, a family needs a
house, but for permanent occupation it
must have a home, and there is a very vital
difference between the terms Character
is founded in the home; good citizenship
is taught by good family life; good govern-
ment can be administered only by those
who have been trained in that discipline
....For the welfare of the nation a choice
of dwelling is necessary if the families of
the next generation are to restore in some
measure the integrity and earnest apprecia-
tion of the greater things of life which
marked the men and women who built our
Empire.
The organisation is the National Union
of Railwaymen, conscientious and cour-
agedus fellows ; so naturally branded by
baffled Communists and their kidney as
“scabs.”
The latest field of activity for the Com-
munist party is Fiji. List of exhorta-
tions :
Let us unite for shorter time of work
and better wages!.... In New Zealand the
time for work is 40 hours per week and
the lowest pay £2O 10s. per month. Let
us fight for the spirit of friendship be-
tween races! Let us destroy the spirit of ■
enmity between races! Let us unite to
assist those Chiefs with Leaders who seek
to help us!
The negligent printer apparently forgoi
to print “God Save the King” at the
bottom of it all.


“NOW YOU SEE IT, NOW YOU DON’T!”
“With the rise in fares and living costs the tax ‘savings’ promised by ‘Labor’ are already a vanishing quantity."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Findy”: For months now I have been
reading Government advts., the total costo:
which must have run into many thousand
of pounds, urging me not to spend th
money I haven’t got on goods whic
aren’t there for me to buy, and like mos
people I’ve merely regarded them as an
extravagance on the part of a Govern
ment infected with a rush of publicity
the head. But the latest splurge, runnin
to nearly half a page in every paper
pick up, is a bit over the fence. It adver
tises the tax-cuts and asks me which way
I intend to use the extra money in nr
pay envelope—a point that Mr. McGir
and his transport advisers have alread
decided for me. Unfortunately, my wif
can read too, and the published schedul
tells her to the exact penny the exten
of my tax-cut, so that even the little bi
of beer-money I was hoping to scroung
by walking to work has gone up the
spout. It’s bad enough to have the Gov
ernment spending public money to tel
the public how not to spend its money
but when it acts as a pimp between man
and wife it’s the last straw.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Flappers who write
to the correspondence columns of the
dailies complaining of the lack of male
courtesy in these degenerate post-war
days amuse me. It seems to me it is the
flappers who need to be taught manners
When a pregnant woman got into my
bus leading a child did the young ones
move up to make room? Not one stirred
a muscle. Finally an old man wearing
Digger's badge gave up his seat to her
Many of the young women had been
given seats —mine among them —by men
but it didn’t seem to enter their heads
to do the same to one of their own sex
who needed it more than they.
* * * *
“Bo”: Here have I been for years
enthusiastically following! big tennis, and
now comes the bitter humiliation of being
made aware of all the shot intricacies
that I’ve missed. Take, for instance, the
lob, that donkey-drop shot that sails well
up in the air to fall leisurely, the striker
hopes, just inside the base-line and so give
him a chance to get it into good positional
play again. In the Wimbledon doubles
I read that Petra, playing with his com-
patriot Pellizza against Bromwich and
Pails, “played astutely, scoring with
perfectly concealed lobs.” Next time I
go to the White City I’m going to look
real hard not only for a concealed lob
but even for a secret ace. Lord knows
how many times they may have been
put over in the past without my knowing
it.
* * * ♦
“Feng-Shui”; So Emperor Hirohito,
clad in striped pants and a cutaway coat,
read to his Diet a rescript handing
over his rights as absolute monarch to
Nippon’s first completely-elected Parlia-
ment. Time was when the emperor
was so holy that he had to be shaved
by a barber with gloves oij, and
he couldn’flook fixedly towards any part
of his dominions too long or plagues,
earthquakes or famines would break out
in the district. He was responsible for
the bad things as well as the good things.
I saw Hirohito in 1914 when he was heir
apparent. He was on the way to do
obeisance at his mother’s tomb, and the
awe of the multitude expressed itself
in a prolonged “sissa” like the sound of
the wind in the pine-trees. In 1921 he
completed his education by a tradition-
shattering trip abroad when he visited
King George V, the Pope and the King
of Italy, and he broke another tradition
when he married outside the family from
whom all crown princes selected their
brides. Later he was photographed in
plus fours. His people survived all these
shocks, so, perhaps, they’ll get used to
regarding the Son of Heaven as a consti-
tutional monarch.
.** * *
“Xenexer”: A concern that has issued
an encyclopaedia of Australiana is to be
commended on that score. But how
typical of Australian culture to find in
the book two likenesses of Ned Kelly
when navigators. Governors and states-
men are granted only one! Ned is shown
under “Bushranger” as well as under his
own name. '
* * * *
“N.D.”: A newsreel of the damage
and loss of life incurred when the heavy
gales lashed the south-east coast of Eng-
land included shots of LjLM.S. Warspite
hard and fast on the rocks a|ter snapping
her towline while being towed to the
shipbreaker’s. The voice of the com-
mentator lamented the fate of a warrior
so famous. I think most who served in
the Mediterranean and Atlantic during
the war will agree with me that no better-
“How much further — it's half an hour past me feeding time !”
fitting Valhalla could be found for so
redoubtable a warrior than the one she
has made for herself. The old gladiator
whose exploits in two World Wars were
in keeping with the finest traditions of
the service, in her present resting-ground
close to shore, enshrined with memories
of famous battles and courageous men,
will be viewed by thousands of Britons
in the years to come, arid, like Nelson’s
Victory, remain a monument to and a
reminder of the significance of sea-power
to the Empire.
» * ♦ •
“Gravelsnatcher”: Long service
rendered Bill immune from sacking
through a long series of drinking bouts
which would have qualified anyone else
for the boot, but at last the boss warned
him. For a week Bill was sober, but
getting progressively surlier. Then we
noticed an improvement. He became his
old, genial self again, even to the extent
of appearing slightly tipsy towards knock-
off time. He arrived at work quite sober,
didn’t go out all day, ate his lunch, on
the premises and yet half-way through
the afternoon you’d have sworn he was
tipsy. We supposed it was the beer
working out of his system, and wondered
whether the fact that he had become a
chewing addict had anything to do with
it. He chewed continuously. Finally Bill
was drunk and infinitely worse than he’d
been when he was permitted his periodical
libations. So the boss revoked his ban
and sanctioned Bill’s return to his previ-
ous habits. We were all relieved when
the chewing ceased—particularly Bill,
who confided that he’d have been in the
d.ts. if he’d been forced much longer to
continue chewing wheat soaked overnight
in whisky.
* * * #
“R.W.”: Something of historic interest
was the trip, by ’plane, of a team of
Sydney bellringers to Adelaide to open
a new peal of bells installed in St, Peter’s
Cathedral. The Adelaide bells were made
by John Taylor and Son, of England, and
cost £lO,OOO. The peal of bells in All
Saints’ Cathedral, Bathurst, was the first
to be rung in Australia, being heard for
the first time in 1856. The bells were
installed in 1854, and the ropes had not
been fastened in position when news of
the capture of Sebastopol reached the
town. This so stirred some ardent patriots
that they climbed the tower and beat the
bells with iron bars, cracking one of
them. In 1944 when the Russians re-
entered Sebastopol the same bells were
rung in commemoration.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: Housewives listening-in
to the usual morning broadcast of fashion
gossip, household talks and recorded
music from a Melbourne commercial
station were asked to stand by for an
urgent message. After a pause the an-
nouncer’s voice, in the tones of one who
is charged with the onerous duty of
conveying weighty news, boomed out.
“A black and white Dalmatian dog has
been lost. It is imperative that the dog
be returned to his owner at once. Any-
one knowing its whereabouts is asked
to communicate with,” etc. A few
minutes later the message was repeated,
with the addition, “The matter is very
urgent, as the dog is going to have pups.”
Sticklers for exactitude might cavil at
the use of the word “dog” in relation to
the missing animal; but probably in the
bowdlerised lexicon of radio there’s no
such word as bitch.
* * * *
“Porterhouse”: Whale steak is no
longer a joke. Last year a Norwegian
firm began a campaign to get it accepted
as a high-quality product selling through
its own worth and not merely as a sub-
stitute for choice cuts off a grass-fed
Hereford. The whalemeat is sliced,
frozen and packed in two- and 10-pound
cartons, sealed in cellophane, and those
who have tasted it say they’ve often sunk
their teeth into far worse hunks doled out
by their butcher. Anyway, British
importers have bought up the whole of
Norway’s exportable surplus for this
year, round about 1000 tons, and the
sponsors of the scheme are hopeful of
further expansion. Of course, the Japs,
dispensing with the cellophane, have been
eating whalemeat for ages, and this was
one of the main reasons for MacArthur’s
permitting them to send whalers to the
Antarctic.
♦ * * *
“Kelms”; A Perth woman with an
urge to own a home combined initiative
and business instinct in an offer to pur-
chase a property with money bequeathed
to her in a will. The offer was accepted,
the deal almost finalised, when a hitch
occurred. The will was valid and was
not disputed. But the testator had com-
mitted one “fatal” error. He had omitted
to die.
* * * »
“Minto”: How’s this for speedy
delivery? The crew of our transport air-
craft decided to give the New Guinea lads
some unofficial service. Collecting a
bunch of letters before take-off from
Finschhafen at 4 p.m. one Thursday, we
sorted them into States. We pulled into
Archerfield, Brisbane, at 3 a.m. Friday
just in time to throw the Adelaide batch
on the Adelaide-bound courier.. That kite
reached Adelaide the same afternoon, and
the pilot posted the letters as soon as he
reached the city. We got a kick out of
doing a good turn and a delicious
pleasure in contemplating the astonish-
ment, disbelief or gratitude that filled the
hearts of wives, mothers and sweethearts,
as they tried to work out how it hap-
pened.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Those fake diamonds (B.
25/6/’47) had a boom throughout Aus-
tralia for a period. Sydney’s main selling
establishment was in King-street and
soon after it opened the whole city
sparkled. It dazzled the eyes to walk
“The Block,” then the evening and
week-end promenade for the citizenry.
A Bulletin Showman notice of the time
ran: “The dress circle of the Theatre
Royal glittered with three million pounds-
worth of jewellery—if it was real.” The
boom petered out for the usual reason;
no woman wanted to sport diamonds
when every woman was sporting “dia-
monds,” and even the genuine jewels
went out of display for a time. The
genuine, of course, were kept as assets,
but what became of the apparent mil-
lions of pounds’-worth of shams that
once lit up the city I could never ascertain.
* * * r
“Colbun”: Despite the traffic cop’s
uplifted hand the elderly lady driver came
steadily on across the stop. He leaped
across with a shout, and, smiling
pleasantly, she pulled up the aged two-
seater. “Madam!” he growled in severest
official tone, “don’t you know what it
means when I hold up my hand?” “Of
course I do,” she answered demurely.
“I’ve been teaching boys’ classes for
nearly 30 years. But I didn’t expect it
from a big grown-up man like you.”
* * * *
“Commercial T.”: In country pubs
these cold nights a man has to be pretty
quick off the mark to scrounge a seat
within sight of the loungeroom fire. If
one has been lucky in grabbing a warm
chair, and stands up from it momentarily
to stretch, all those possessing less desir-
able possies lean forward expectantly.
It must have been the same in Benjamin
Franklin’s day, but Benjy was seldom
left in the cold. Travelling through a
snow-storm he once arrived at an inn
to find all the good positions by the fire
tenanted. Ben scratched his head, then
called loudly for the manager to have a
peck of oysters taken out to his horse.
To a man, the unbelieving locals stalked
outside to see the phenomenon. Ben
parked himself in the best chair, put his
feet up, and awaited developments. The
townsmen soon returned to tell him that
the horse wouldn’t eat the oysters. “Um,”
said Ben, “bring them in here and watch
me eat ’em,”
* * A ft
“Gowan”; Hoaxes? I must tell this
one. A Yank wireless operator carried
a portable receiver in his aircraft. Dur-
ing an overnight stay at Hollandia he
planted the receiver in the W.A.Cs.’ ablu-
tion hut. Early next morning he made for
the aircraft and turned his transmitter to
the frequency of the secreted receiver,
then murmured “Excuse me, Miss, will
you please use the next hut —I’m painting
this one.” The rest can be imagined.
* * *
“Flathead”: Our Greek greengrocer
is a great lover of animals, but his
proudest possession is a green parrot. At
night, like his dog and cat, it is parked in
the living-room. Not long ago it woke
one night after Tony had gone to bed
and saw the carpet smouldering and the
armchair crackling merrily. Although the
bird’s vocabulary had no word to fit
the occasion, the continued screeching of
“Pretty Polly” finally brought Tony from
his bed. Since then more than one cus-
tomer has dropped her bundle of onions
when a shrill “God-a-strewth —fire!”
surprised her from behind.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; lam late with this, but
let me in. June 25 was not only
an historical date because it was the
100th birthday of Melbourne as a city.
On that day the City Council’s Parks and
Gardens Committee made the heroic de-
cision to permit mixed bathing in the
City Baths.
* * * *
“Brid”: Tasmania, which claims to
have been the first State to send a radio
message in Australia—in 1901 it
welcomed the Duke and Duchess of York
by wireless—is now preening itself on an-
other pioneering claim, that of possess-
ing and using the first telephone in Aus-
tralia. When Graham Bell brought out
his new device, diagrams and particulars
of it were published in the “English
Mechanic” in the latfe ’seventies. Alfred
Barrett Biggs, then headmaster of the
Campbelltown school, who was very keen
on scientific experimentation, straightway
produced threfe sets of ’phones, of the
hand type (turned from Huon pine),
modelled on the Bell plans; and after
preliminary tests had a trunk-line con-
servation with Launceston, about 50 miles
away, switching his instruments on to the
existing telegraph line and speaking from
the Campbelltown railway station. He
also devised a microphone which gave
excellent results. Fond of astronomical
science, he made a 10-inch telescope
(grinding his own lenses) and set up an
observatory in Royal Park, Launceston,
the telescope standing on a dressed stone
pillar erected on the exact spot of the true
meridian worked out by himself by means
of his transit instrument. Biggs died in
1901. In 1935, the Royal Society set up
a monument in Royal Park to mark the
observatory site and commemorate the
first telephonist. Two of the old ’phones
are now in the Launceston Museum, one
set remaining the possession of a son at
Scottsdale.
MONTY’S FAITH.
“Speaking at Darwin, Field-Marshal Lord Mont-
gomery said he was convinced, despite all the talk
about future wars, that the troubled world will
settle down and become quite well.”
He won’t be ranged with pessimistic folk
Whose habit is to take the gloomiest view
Of what’s ahead, and dismally to croak
About the damage atom bombs do,
Who question if the Arab and the Jew
Their mutual hate will ever bury or drown.
He holds—a far more cheerful forecast, too —
The world will gradually settle down.
Be slow and sure and patient, and you shall,
He counsels us, deservedly succeed —
Something as true in the political
Perhaps as in the military creed —
More haste may obviously mean less speed,
And few there’ll be, in country or in town,
Loath to assume, with Monty, that indeed
The world is on the way to settling down.
The swollen-headed Russ may growl and bark
Defiance at the strong and cow the weak
And generally play the peevish nark
When other Powers co-operation seek;
Pole, Bulgar, Austrian, Yugoslav and Greek
May still be gripped by headaches round the
crown,
But after all its upsets, so to speak,
It’s good to think the world is settling down.
In stricken Europe it may be —who knows? —
The long dark night of misery and grief
Wears, howsoever slowly, to a close.
With peace the giver outing war the thief.
A smile to face the future is, in brief,
A better asset than a puzzled frown,
So here’s to Monty’s confident belief:
The world is on the way to settling down.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Macnell”; Val Vallis’s forecast (B.
4/. 6/’47) was the one bright patch in
four days of gales. The voice came
through from Brisbane on the bridge
speaker. “Here is the forecast for today.
Seas slight to moderate ” The Old
Man and I looked at one another, ducked
a drenching cloud of spray and eased the
dripping oilskins from our salt-water
boils. The bows lifted and swept down
with a speed that made the Big Dipper
look like a playground swing. She
splintered each comber into acres of
white, shovelled her nose down the can-
yon beyond and regained her pace with
cascades of water spilling from her
fo’c’sle like long grey beards flowing in
the wind. Above our heads the wind in
the stays was a steady, rushing whine,
and below in the forrard messdeck three
inches of water swilled playfully from
side to side. I lurched to the chart-table.
As I plotted the dead-reckoning posi-
tion on a sodden chart the voice drooled
on: “I will repeat the forecast for today.
Seas slight to moderate....”
H= * * *
“Plop”; As I stepped through my front
gate the man standing on top of the
garbage-truck missed the tin hurled up
by his offsider. It sailed past him and
landed on the roof of a black sedan
parked in front of the truck. The
groundcrew member made another cast
with a now half-empty tin, this time suc-
cessfully. Before the truck moved on
the bloke on top winked down at me
and remarked that the car-o\yner “ought
to give a good sort of bite when he
sees that mess.” The truck was around
the corner before I got sufficient control
of myself to reply. The car-owner? Me.
*i*
“Ceg”: The “Ghost Train,” mystery
play of a couple of decades ago, has
actually materialised, and I can quote
a Victorian departmental inquiry to
prove it. A large stock train was
“You darling—thanks a lot!”
to leave Maryborough for Ararat
with something like 50 trucks of livestock.
Two locomotives were to have the job
of hauling it. The train was assembled,
the engines whistled and the very steep
grade leading out of Maryborough on the
Avoca line was negotiated in great style.
For the 17 miles to Avoca everything
went swimmingly, but when they arrived
at Avoca the stationmaster was a little
puzzled. “Where’s the rest of the train?”
he asked the drivers. They didn’t know,
bht it was still back at Maryborough,
The locos returned and the trucks were
coupled on. This time the steep grade
wasn’t so easy to negotiate, and a pilot
engine had to be called for to push at the
rear. With three engines the train at last
arrived at its destination.
* * * ♦
“Conda”: Five Jap soldiers have
been captured in a native village
20 miles south of Madang. All were
suffering £rom a combination of malaria,
dysentery and beriberi. My frigate
shipped fchem across to Rabaul. Also
joined at Madang a patrol officer of the
Royal Papuan Constabulary who’d been
the Nips’ “employee” on the Burma-
Siam railway and in Changi, We used
the prisoners to get his gear inboard and
found his acquired Japanese most help-
ful. The Nips, surprised and thankful
that they weren’t shot out of hand,
worked like Trojans. When they’d
finished he gave them each a cigarette..
Surprised, I asked him if he didn’t feel
bitter about the whole race. “Well,” the
Changi man answered quietly, “many’s
the time I felt like a smoke myself.”
* * * *
“Hamfa t”: “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
18/6/’47) has only rediscovered an old
truth: the stale old jokes are not used by
the people who are paid to be comic be-
cause they love them or can find no
others but because the public, which
finds it difficult to recognise a joke as
a joke if it’s new, gives a hearty guffaw
of welcome when an old friend is dragged
in. Many a show have I seen with
dialogue sparkling with new-minted
humor falling rather' flat until the
comedian, in desperation, has used one
of the old, old mother-in-law quips.
Possibly, in relief from feeling that it is
being called upon to think the new
sparklers out, the audience has howled its
joy. An artist with a new act once told
Harry Rickards that his jokes were
guaranteed new. “I don’t want any of
your new jokes,” he retorted. “Dish up
the old jokes so’s they seem new.”
Rickards knew his audiences.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A most original method
of getting rid of “squatters” was adopted
by a Maori. Henare had vainly per-
suaded his tenants to leave, so he burned
the house down, including the property
of the “squatters.” When the case came
before the Court the Beak convicted
Henare, but inflicted no sentence, allow-
ing him probation, and ordered he should
make good the value of the chattels
destroyed. When he advised Henare not
to use such a method again, the Maori
commented, “By korrti. Next time I
lock te plurry house, and no let te feller
come out at all. And then he have to
come out for te ki, or he starve!”
He * H= *
“Minto”; My neighbor has a ticket
in the lottery every week, not for the
possible prize, but for the satisfaction of
his sardonic humor if his number does
hit the bullseye. In that event the papers
will record that first-prize has been won
by “The Anti-Gambling Syndicate.”
* * * *
“Zake”: What makes the Soviet dele-
gations so greatly feared by the repre-
sentatives of the decadent democracies
at conferences is that un-
answerable logic such as
was expounded by Vish-
insky on the question of
women. He told a
Canadian military
attache who had married
a Russian woman for-
bidden to leave for
Canada with her hus-
band : “A Russian
woman’s duty is to pro-
duce Soviet children, not
children for the Can-
a d i a n Government.”
After this illuminating*
sidelight on the State
Stud Farm, Vish. went
on: “Most women who
marry foreigners are of
the wrong type to be ex-
amples of Russian
womanhood.” Illogical
people would, of course,
ask why, in view of their
unsuitability as future
breeders in the Workers’
Paradise, Joe and Co.
aren’t glad to kiss these
women good-bye and
good riddance. The ex-
prosecutor also said:.
“Women talk too much,
and this gives a wrong
impression of the Soviet Union.” Again,
silly illogical people would, ask: “If all
is beautiful in Joe’s Oriental heaven, the
more Soviet women abroad talked about
it the better.” No wonder Bevin, Mar-
shall and Co. haven’t a hope in argu-
ments with this perfect logician.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Hollywood’s sense of
psychological values leaves me a little be-
wildered. In one recent drama a girl
because a shocking liar, a jewel thief and
a murderess, simply because, as a lass of
10, she was falsely accused of stealing a
locket. In another headliner a boy is
compelled to shoot a pet fawn he posi-
tively adores. This act, apart from im-
pelling him to run away from home for
three days, has no psychological effect on*
the lad ; on the contrary the father gets
off a lot of smug platitudes about the
manliness and character it has developed.
Perhaps the Aussie kid is different from
the Yank. When I was a boy my
teacher wrongly accused me of stealing
“I’m taking the eiderdown, Daddy — it's cold and I might be late!”
from the school bank. Although the in-
cident made me hate him —and school —
even more, it has not, so far, driven me
to rob banks, commit murders or tell
more lies than the next man. On the
other hand, I owned a dog about that
time, a little mongrel that I loved nearly
as much as the Yank boy loved his fawn.
If I’d been forced to shoot him, well,
I might have been known to the police
for something else besides riding a bike
without a light.
* * * *
“Peter Ess”; In a large Victorian
town I was gazing at a big tin building
on the outskirts when an old bloke came
by and volunteered some information.
“Yairs,” he said, “they used to make
plaster sheets there. They had an
Egyptian mine up in the hills, and they
used to bring the Egyptian down here.
When the mine was worked out they
couldn’t get any more Egyptian so the
factory had to close.” It was a younger
member of the community who told me
that gypsum was the mysterious mineral
referred to.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Good audiences? In France
during the other war some staff
officers were on an inspection to see
what progress was being made in
converting what remained of a
battered townlet into billets. They
were astonished to see a Digger
in the centre of what had been the village
square dispensing sweet music from a
harp while Diggers lounging on .wreck-
age listened in rapt attention. The harp
had been salvaged from the ruins of the
church and a Digger who said “I know
a bloke who can play this” had dug out
Bertie Torzillo (known in Australia as
Signor Torzillo, Australia’s Premier
Harpist). Bertie, not wanting to leave
the footslogging fighting to his cobbers,
had declined to join an army concert
party, but Brudenell White, directly he
heard of the incident, said that a concert
party was the place for him. Torzillo
brought the same harp back to Australia.
He died some years ago ; he was Aus-
tralian-born and proud of it.
* * * *
“Ceg”: “Hackshaw” (B. 25/6/’47) on
hats reminds me of the time when
women’s hats were huge “creations,” well
skewered to the hair by long hat-pins.
Standing in a queue outside the booking-
office at a London tube station during
the First World War was a woman wear-
ing such a hat with the proper collection
of pins. Turning her head suddenly
she drove one of the pins into the eye
of a man standing behind her. She
applogised profusely. The man’s reply
wds the essence of politeness: “Don’t
worry. Madam —I have another eye.”
* * * *
“Nakh”: From San Diego comes a re-
port of a wedding at which everybody,
except the clergyman, was naked, includ-
ing a child of three, a grandmother and
85 friends. At least the clergyman was
prepared for the occasion. This was not
the case with a countrywoman who was
invited to tea by a visiting actor and his
wife who were staying at an expensive
hostelry in Melbourne. Knocking on the
door of their apartments, she received a
cheery request to enter. She was greeted
by her host clad decently in a shirt and
wafted courteously to a seat. “My wife’s
having a bath—hurry up, darling!” he
shouted. The door of the bathroom flew
open and out came darling in the alto-
gether. Showing no more concern than
her husband, she greeted the visitor with
the usual spontaneous friendliness of the
profession and started hunting around for
her clothing while her husband went on
dressing. After a pleasant afternoon the
matron went home considerably recon-
ditioned about actors.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; The real rea-
son for the recall of Franklin from
Tasmania in 1843 (B. 18/6/’47) was
his previous dismissal of one John
Montagu, his former official secretary,
on well - deserved grounds of inso-
lence and overbearing conduct amount-
ing to insubordination. A nephew
of Governor Arthur, Montagu re-
turned to England, became Colonial
Secretary and lost no time in avenging
himself. He induced Lord Stanley to re-
call Franklin, and to make the business
more offensive arranged that his suc-
cessor, John Eardley Wilmot, should
reach Hobart before Franklin was told of
the change. The flagrantly unjust order
was obeyed without demur, and Franklin
returned to England in January, 1844.
A principal cause of the disaster which
befell his North-west Passage expedition
in the following year was putrefaction
of the supplies of canned meat carried
by the Erebus and Terror as emergency
rations. Large heaps of it were found
by one of the relief parties years later.
* * * ♦
“Heide”: One type of pest not often
catalogued is the person who goes to the
pictures and parks his car across the
driveway of near-by homes. Such a
fellow, driving an old-time truck, parked
behind me the other night. After the
show, I came out to find the truck pushed
hard up against my car, and the owner
vigorously scraping at the windscreen.
The occupant of the house had pushed
the truck forward, and had stuck a big
piece of brown paper on the windscreen
with the words “Don’t park here” printed
thereon. It must have taken the truck-
driver five minutes or more to get the
brown paper off, and he would need to
wash the glass to clear it properly, so'
perhaps a cure was effected in his case.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: Grim as were the
forced marches of p.-0.-w. in Burma,
they were not worse than those endured
by the Nips themselves on their way to
the Arakan front. Battalion after bat-
talion passed our camp, plodding through
the red mud, driven like cattle by their
officers. Even we felt sorry enough to
mutter “poor blankafds.” But we saw,
if they didn’t, the funny side to one inci-
dent. A young “one-star” fell exhausted
in the mud. Blows and kicks failed to
bring him to his feet and his officer was
about to leave him, when he thought of
a parting indignity. Retrieving the fallen
tin hat he filled it with liquid mud and
jammed it on the prostrate man’s head.
To everyone’s surprise, the man staggered
to his feet and continued the march.
jJ; *J*
“Nakhoda”: Census trouble? I once
helped to take a census on Labuan
Island, where the races ranged from
Kadayans, Dyaks, Sun Dyaks, Dusuns,
Booloodoopies and Bisayans to Malays
and Chinese, and the religions from primi-
tive animism to the worship of old pots.
Great confusion was caused by an official
order to the population to stay in its
houses between noon on one day and
noon on the next. Night came on before
we had completed our task, and when we
approached most of the houses we found
them locked and barred against us and
the house ladders drawn up. A peremp-
tory knock with a stick on the front door
produced dead silence, though a soft
sniffling and rustling and the sound of an
odd baby crying showed that the
dwellings were stuffed to suffocation. It
turned out that a rumor had gone rohnd
that the Government, which was contem-
plating building a new bridge, wanted 60
human heads to steady the foundations. The
census returns contained a lot of guesses.
THE GOLDEN AGE.
This Golden Age that Chifley intimated
In pre-election talks was close at hand,
Implying he would lead us, one supposes,
Thereto, as Israel was led by Moses
Into the Promised Land,
Where is it? Still beyond the far horizon,
Like any other castles in the air?
Where is it that we cannot get a dekko
At this Utopia of his? And Echo
Can only answer Where?
An extra penny for the tram conductor
And ferry turnstile is, I’ll venture, not
An innovation that will make you, brother,
Or me or similarly any other
More thankful for his lot.
■ . '
Train fares are tipped to rise and steeper prices
Foreshadowed for electric light anon
To add another load to the expenses
For those amenities in residences
Succinctly styled “mod. con.”
An extra thrum, to leave your pocket lighter,
Mote that henceforward you’ll be forced to
give
To the white-jacketed tonsorial wizard
By whom your flowing locks are deftly scissored
Or him who shaves your chiv.
A Golden Age! For whom? I hear you asking.
And comes a whisper from behind the stage:
“Not for the chaps in everyday conditions,
Bui how about our Canberra politicians,
JndJtL'd by their very latest acquisitions
Isn’t it their Golden Age?”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


SANK LENDS
MONEY
FOR PERSONAL NEEDS *
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL BANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
**so33N ivNosaaa aod asnow sonst mnvs ivana**»
• BREN GUN CARRIERS
Running order. Price £lOO with Battery f.o.r. Albury.
Full range of spare part's. Kerosene vapouriser specially
designed for Bren Carriers and Ford V 8 Motors. Price
of vapouriser £2l—fitting extra.
• CADILLAC 39 H.P. PETROL MOTORS (as new)
Suitable for cars, trucks and auxiliary power. Complete
with all accessories but gearbox. £125 crated f.o.r. Albury.
• GENERAL STUART AND LEE TANKS
Petrol engines, suitable emergency tractor work, scrub
clearing, timber haulage, etc. Prices on application.
• FORD TRUCK TYPE GEAR BOXES £6/10/- each
• DIFFERENTIALS
Complete with axles. Suit 1938 to 1942 models.
£lO each f.o.r. Albury.
• "HOMELITE" LIGHTING SETS—3Ov„ ISOOw.
The famous Homelite Set is the answer to all light and
power troubles in your country home. Easily portable
and completely dependable. Price £24/10/-, including
Voltage Regulator, f.o.r. Albury.
• VOLTAGE REGULATORS
12-volt and 30-volt Regulators suitable for Home Lighting
Sets. Ensures longer life of your Set and a completely
automatic control of output. Price £4/10/- f.o.r. Albury.
• CHASSIS ASSEMBLIES
Suit all types of Chevrolet 6 Cars, Utilities and Trucks
1940-42; also to suit Dodge, Fargo and Ford Trucks.
• ALSO Amp. meters, volt meters, portable telephones, radiators,
batteries to suit cars, trucks and home-lighting sets; also
many other items.
Write for our catalogue
BAKER MOTORS
478 OLIVE STREET, ALBURY
TELEPHONE 629
Missing Friends.
TO GABRIELLE YILETTA DELAINEE RAPHAEL
formerly of 67 High Street Preston in the State
of Victoria but now of Parts Unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your husband PEDRO RAPHAEL has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce on the
ground of desertion Unless you enter an appearance
in the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the Twenty-third
day of July 1947 the case may proceed in your
absence You have until the Second day of August
1947 within which to file an answer in the said
office. This advertisement is inserted by H. H.
HOWARD, of 303 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor
for the Petitioner. ;
ARTHUR THOMAS TAYLOR, late of Bray brook,
Victoria, poultry farmer, deceased, intestate. Will
the deceased’s brother, FREDERICK TAYLOR, who
is believed to be a furniture manufacturer in Sydney,
or any person who can give information of his where-
abouts, communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23U) 243 ELIZABETH ST„ SYDNEY.
THE SERVICE MAN
Montgomery and the Future.
“Ek Dum”: In spite of the sugges-
tions which Canberra 'has fertilised in
the press, there are to be no momentous
discussions on the Australian forces
between Field-Marshal Montgomery and
the “Defence” Ministers (five). For
there is nothing left to discuss. Know-
ing. months ago_ that the C.I.G.S. was
coming to Australia, the “Government”
was careful to sew up its defence pro-
gramme in advance and to adjourn Par-
liament before the distinguished visitor’s
arrival, so that there would be nothing
useful for Mr. Chifley, Dr. Evatt and the
Minister for Forceps, Mr. Chambers, to
do in conjunction with him.
In public, Field-Marshal Montgomery
refused to discuss Australian defence
specifically ; but he gave a pretty good
idea of his views. They must have
brought blushes to the cheeks of somb of
those who have wrecked the defence
forces, if they still know how to blush.
Mr. Chifley’s dictum that the next war
will be a push-button war moved the
leader ,4> f the Eighth Army to laughter.
“That’s a good phrase,” he said. The
Field-Marshal did not subscribe to the
theory that the next war would be of
such a nature. There was nothing new in
that; Field Service Regulations, announced
last year at a conference of field officers
at Camberley, showed exactly what sort
of war the British Commonwealth mili-
tary commanders believed might be ex-
pected. In laying down the basic prin-
ciples little change was made from the
old ones applied, save in the stress on
flexibility and extreme mobility.
The victor of El Alamein, who has
had a liberal education in mobility and
flexibility, and in modern weapons and
their application, from Dunkirk to the
actual German surrender, made to him
on the Liineburger Heath, said that,
though the progress of science over a
number of years would undoubtedly in-
fluence the way in which war was con-
ducted, there was no evidence yet that
land or air battle would give way to
other methods. Therefore, as a soldier,
he could not possibly recommend to his
Ministers that they scrap everything and
turn over to pushing buttons —“We might
not be ready to push them when an
emergency occurred.”
However, he did not believe that an-
other war was inevitable and he believed
that to think so was a wrong attitude of
mind, and that young people should be
brought up in an atmosphere of hope
and confidence. But his following re-
marks that in a future war neither side
might use the atomic bomb in the same
way that neither side used gas in the last
war showed that he did not rule out the
possibility of war.
And certainly it cannot be ruled out on
his argument that he “did not know of any
nation that wanted war or was in a posi-
tion to wage war.” The same thing
might have been said of the world in
1934. But by 1935 Britain had laid down
plans for five years ahead to counter a
threat already in being in Germany, and
in 1937 Germany was in a position to
fight anybody in sight, having regard to
others’ non-preparedness.
Where the unpreparedness is pretty
general the position invariably is that
some nation, even if not fully prepared,
has a year’s start over all the others and
that nation is always the one with the
malign intentions.
At present Russia has an easy start
on the rest'for any war of the future.
Russia is. acquiring a new force with
great rapidity. As far back as 1943, all
Russian schools were placed on a military
basis, training starting almost in infancy,
and there is no evidence that this state
of affairs has been relaxed.
Turkey, Russia’s nearest neighbor, cer-
tainly has a lively appreciation of the
USSR heinp ahlo tn mrrv nn war
against a smalf to£gh neighbol by keep-
ing that neighbor’s forces mobilised to
the ruin of its economy. And If Turkey
were attacked other nations, ready or
not, would soon be plunged in the mad-
strom. It could not be avoided.
Both Britain and the United States
know this, and Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery’s confidence in the future did not
preclude him, at a time when British
civil industry is in dire need of man-
“I’ll finish this spud on Monday—I've put in me forty hours this Week!"
power, from recommending a compul-
sory military service in the United Kingr
dom, as part of the £900,000,000 defence
budget. General Marshall, in his
final report as Chief-of-Staff to the
United States Army, stressed the fact that
compulsory training was necessary—and
salutary—and that it could be no token
affair; it called for at least a year in
the forces.
Czechoslovakia, which cannot be called
a warlike nation, and whose Govern-
ment has been preaching exactly the
policy which Field-Marshal Montgomery
favors, has within the past two months
implemented a scheme under which “pre-
military education” is to begin with
children who went to school in 1938, as
a preliminary to their ultimate entry into
the conscript forces.
Despite denials from Bulgaria, there
seems to be little doubt that a Balkan
military bloc has been arranged between
that country, Yugoslavia, Albania and
Rumania, conjointly with a reorganisa-
tion of armies which, in Yugoslavia, on
the basis of a report by an American
U.N.R.R.A. representative in the “Satur-
day Evening Post,” have been partly
equipped with U.N.R.R.A. materials—
doubtless with gifts of Australian wool
in the case of uniforms.
In Sofia a few weeks ago the Minister
for the Interior declared that the Bul-
garian militia was linked closely with the
two-year plan of development provided
for in ihe budget, and it was said by
another Minister that large sums had
been raised to improve the militia’s cul-
tural level.
It is even betting all the armies of the
Balkans, which are being educated and
equipped on the Russian military basis
and armed with standard Russian arms,
are being prepared to fit into the Red
Army in case of emergency.
Confidence in future strength can have
a sound basis only in native strength.
the R.A.N. is to have a Naval Air Arm;
it will need to borrow an aircraft-car-
completed.• • n lts own two are
n „ r f . ~
. . t F . . , . cts c ome those
I t vu
, f j * ‘ H°dge, R.A.N.,
. f negligence or
, ~ . , , g
froun< JSiJ* l. ° miltted K t - fix
n int cour . se
J° iltlon °!- tl^\ ship ’
(c) wrongly identified a navigation buoy,
f su , re hi ? ? hart ™
. . . a *?.?’ om ' ,e
“ ‘.St f , co "s Ded
*2*2? *" d *°m UtS pos ‘ ed .. or
8 ran S e ‘ flndm 8
equipment.
Suc “ a catalogue of crimes in an
ordinary navy would probably result in
the officer concerned being cashiered and
ruined for life. But the condition of
the R.A.N. is such that the victim of
the charges has the general sympathy of
the R.A.N., and the prosecutor, in the
fair manner of prosecutors in naval
court-martials, made a point of extenuat-
ing circumstances:
The shortage of trained and experienced
officers and men makes the organisational
difficulties of a captain enormous, though
for this very reason a great deal, of respon-
sibility. rests with the captain.
To which Commander Gatacre, R.A.N.,
defending, added that the Condamine’s
complement had been “reduced by two-
fifths” ; and hence it was “impossible to
maintain alii lookouts and use the radar
and echo-finding equipment.”
On the evidence, the Court was left with
no alternative in its verdict. Its leniency
was no doubt influenced (apart from the
recital of the R.A.N.’s condition) by the
fact that the prosecution voluntarily
stated that once the ship was stranded
Commander Hodge “showed outstanding
seamanship in getting her clear on an
ebbing tide.”
But the onlooker could not help feel-
ing that the people who should have
been in the Dock were the “Defence”
Ministers responsible for the present con-
dition of the service.
The Wrong Defendant?
“Ek Dum”: The state of the R.A.N. —
which is certainly no fault of the Service
itself —has been revealed by a number of
brief announcements recently:
It is not so long since the Rear-Admiral
commanding the Australian squadron in the
Orient was showing his flag in a destroyer.
There is no chance for the present of
returning the visit of the United States
Task Force 38, because ships cannot be
spared to do it!
The Australian naval commitments in the
Far East can just barely be carried out with
the present resources. Even a delay in
the departure from Japan of H.M.A.S.
Hobart so that she may perform the vital
duty of bringing home Dr. Evatt and
retinue after the triumphant—it is sure to
be “triumphant”— tour to Japan will pre-
cariously upset the naval programme—not
to mention the crew of several hundred,
whose home-coming may be delayed.
About 20 years after the rest of the world
The Bomber's War.
“Ek Dum”: Bomber Command, the
war testament of Marshal of the Air
Force Arthur Harris, is first and fore-
most an authoritative narrative of the
R.A.F.’s bomb attack on Germany. It


PIPE SMOKERS
REPAIR SERVICE
An old pipe is like an old friend. How long
have you enjoyed his quiet companionship.
The mouthpiece may be broken, or the stem
cracked, but we can replace the mouthpiece,
and, by fitting a silver mounting, remedy the
cracked stem. If you think your pipe is too far
gone to repair, give our experts the opportunity
to decide. Acting on their advice, we will
communicate with you at once and let you
know their decision.
Genuine Vulcanite Stems, straight,
bent or square, each . . , . 5/_
Sterling Silver Mountings, each .. 3/6
Plus postage for return.
All pipes returned per registered mail in
7 days. N.Z. and island trade catered for.
Trade enquiries invited.
RICHARDS & HAMILTON,
2nd Floor, 756 George Street, Sydney.
'Phone: M 2056.
f
7TI-
-
■■■Hi
ii.s=r=
y x
\JL
H
wsssas
mi
■K&S
’A
N,
r^x
-ir»
i *V
I
V.
PUT YOURSELF
IN THIS PICTURE
It's the best picture you've ever seen.
You've left the monotonous routine of the
work-a-day world behind and you're on a Pioneer Tour.
You're finding beauties you'd hardly dreamed of you re
enjoying every moment every mile —in the wonders of
Australia and the arm-chair comfort of your Pioneer Roadcruiser.
This is YOU, next week next month on one of the 200
Pioneer scenic routes throughout Australia!
Your personal comfort is of first importance to Pioneer. Deep,
adjustable seats, wide windows, radio and guide's public address
system are features of all Pioneer blue and silver Roadcruisers.
Meals, accommodation and luggage are perfectly handled on
every tour.
eer tours
MELBOURNE MU6014
BRISBANE 84635
HOBART 7470
SYDNEY 80532
ADELAIDE C 2514
LAUNCESTON 1760
m
/
/
m
m
m
Guard your engine
n
DRY START
XX
WITH
Did you know that over 75% of engine wear occurs during those
vital first few minutes of running? That’s because the >oil has drained
from the engine parts while it has been standing. It takes inferior
oils some minutes to reach those parts again.
Don’t take chances on a “dry start.” Use Atlantic Pure Paraffin Base
Motor Oil. Its high viscosity index ( ability to maintain efficient lubri-
cation over a wide range.of temperatures) ensures that it’s quickly around
those pistons, cylinders and bearihgs and stays there on the job at high
operating temperatures. Guard against needless replacements
and high upkeep bills by always lubricating
ATIANTIC motor on
(JURE PARAFFIN B4SJJ
O/wap on its Metal
Listen to the ATLANTIC SHOW, starring 808 DYER, every SATURDAY, 8 p.m. « 2UW « 3DB/LK • 4BC • and country stations
is also a tract in which the author seeks
to establish the thesis that the heavy
bomber is almost the be-all and end-all
of modern war; that, in fact, wars on a
major scale can be won by bombing
alone, and that bombing as an indepen-
dent method of war is superlative in its
efficiency, in the lowness of the casual-
ties which it involves and in the speed
with which it carries its users to victory.
This inspires in Sir Arthur Harris an
enthusiasm which few historians of war
will share, and a contempt for other
weapons which is likely to give rise to
indignation among the members of ser-
vices outside the bomber section of the
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F., who feel that they
had some part in the victory.
Admiral Cunningham, with the story
to his hand of the Malta convoys, the
trade-route war, the battering of the
Japanese coast with gunfire, the service
during sieges of such sallyports as
Tobruk, might, for instance, feel inclined
to dispute warmly such dicta as that
battleships were the “most expensive and
the most utterly useless weapons em-
ployed in the whole of the last war,” and
that the Navy’s retention of them pro-
vides “the outstanding example of that
parochial spirit which springs from the
existence of separate services.”
And*even General Eisenhower, a mild
protagonist, and the greatest user of air-
power in battle in the history of the war,
apparently does not share to the full
Marshal Harris’s contempt for the' reac-
tion of the Army to the atom bomb;
It is argued that such bombs cannot be
used in the battlefield without wiping out
all the troops on both sides, a theory
which overlooks the fact that modern
armies are useless without an industrial
civilisation behind them and that such a
civilisation would obviously be the first
objective of the atom bomb. After this
had done its work an enemy army could
be arrested by the police.
There is more to the problem than
that, as General Eisenhower obviously
feels when he bewails the fact of the
overwhelming superiority qX the present
time of the Russian Army over the U.S.
military forces, which have fallen to
930,000 —also, as Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery and his advisers feel in the light
of Britain’s retention of compulsory ser-
vice.
This is not to mention the outlook and
experience of the Russians, who, as Mar-
shal Harris admits, never had any air
force to speak of and who yet played a
very substantial part in the last European
war, before the Bomber Command made
its real weight felt.
The truth from the point of view of
the outside observer seems to lie some-
where between the viewpoint of the
author of this intriguing book and that of
his critics, compromise, as usual in such
matters, leading to a happy mean. No-
body is likely to dispute that the heavy
bombings of Germany and of Japan were
highly important factors in bringing the
war to a close.
But, then again, nobody would be
likely to dispute, in respect of any
fortress investment from the time of the
invention of siege guns, that artillery did
not perform the same function. And it
is, furthermore, very difficult to argue
against a commonsense conviction that
the late war was not a fair test of bomb-
ing as a weapon.
Even applied against Germany, an
enemy centrally situated and within reach
from several directions, with its indus-
tries concentrated and above ground and
its radar in embryo during the early
stages of the war, bombing agencies felt
the draft of the defence at various junc-
tures (as Marshal Harris admits) and a
slight rise in the casualty rate would have
imperilled operations which in the end
proved so successful.
Given a greater dispersion of key in-
dustries, given original sources of fuel
such as Russia and the United States
possess, given earlier development of Ger-
man radar, given a prepared defence the
German air might have been even more
dangerous than it was for the invader
and casualty rates might have risen to a
point at which they became dangerous to
the attackers’ enterprise.
There comes a point when availability
of specialists sets a limit to bombing
operations over long distances, since the
handling and routing of heavy-bomber
squadrons in obviously confined spaces
and along set routes call for a high de-
gree of technical skill which is not in-
herent in even every hundredth man avail-
able for air service.
And the further-ranging the strikes of
a bombing war the longer the distances
over which it is fought, the greater the
demand on skilled manpower, the greater
the call on the technical services, the
greater the wastage and attrition.
In relatiori to the atom bomb and the
bacterial bomb, there are considerations
which rarely seem to be taken into
account. Both may be definitive. But
primarily they are defensive rather than
offensive weapons when applied on a
major scale, since they carry to the nth
degree in their aftermaths the disadvan-
tages to an aggressive nation bent on con-
quest and spoils, of heavy bombing by
older methods.
It may be quite possible to wipe out
the cities and industrial plants of a nation
by atom-bombing or bacterial methods.
But it cannot be done without reducing
the country so bombed to a wilderness,
peopled by a mentally unbalanced and
physically wrecked remnant of popula-
tion. And in areas in which the popula-
tion is largely rural and nomadic and
the cities far apart the tale may be quite
another one.
Bombing so precise, against a beaten
Germany in 1944 and a rice-paper and
little-defended Japan in 1945, may not
always seem so easy on, a large scale in
new conditions and against a new
mobility and intensification of defence
in future combats.
Indeed, it is almost certain that time
will mitigate its deadliness through the
development of defence and the emer-
gence of problems of offence arising
naturally from the bomber’s own destruc-
tiveness.


ASK FOR
A
mm*:
1847
* ■
TXT ■■■:
TQ47
f
111
i
§l9
«
PERSONAL ITEMS
With decorations thick upon him and a
toy kangaroo in the lapel of his battle-
dress Monty appeared on the platform
of the Melbourne Town Hall last week
and addressed a congealed mass of Mel-
bourne citizens who, though they cheered
loudly every reference to Winston Chur-
chill, the ordinary soldier and the war-
time housewife, never cheered so loudly
as when the Field-Marshal made a wistful
allusion to the absence of cable trams
from the streets of Melbourne. Nothing
is more calculated to make the breast of
a Melburnian melt than a reference to
cable trams, but Monty’s allusion to them
wasn’t mere angling fo'r popular apprecia-
tion. The cable trams have pleasant
associations for him. When he was a
small boy in Hobart he spent his holi-
days in Melbourne, and most of the time
he spent riding round on the old dodder-
ing means of transport.
Roland Wilson, who earned the thanks
of every husband and father in Aus-
tralia on June 30 by authorising them
to describe themselves in their census
papers as Head of the Household, has
been Commonwealth Statistician since
1936. Born at Ulverstone (Tas.) 43 years
ago, he was Tasmanian Rhodes Scholar
in 1925, and at Hobart Uni., Oxford and
Chicago he picked up a string of degrees
in Commerce, Economics and Political
Science. In 1932 he became Assistant
Statistician and succeeded E. J. McPhee
in the seat of Knibbs and Wickens. Last
month when his specimen census paper
laying bare the secrets of the Brown family
of Westbume came under fire from
facetious correspondents in the daily
press he replied in similar strain. One
point of criticism concerned John Brown,
a brother of the head of the Brown
household, an unemployed bricklayer
who lived with his brother Bill. Critics
seemed to think he was loafing on his
brother and had no right to be out of a
job with the building trade screaming
for labor. Dr. Wilson’s reply that John
ordinarily lived in the country and was
staying with his brother for a rest after
putting in months of week-end work at
blackmarket rates showed him to be a
statistician who looks beyond his figures.
Another Rhodes Scholar in the news
lately is Samuel Clement Leslie, Perth-
born product of Melbourne Uni., who
won the distinction shortly after World
War I. The House of Commons sat up
when it was stated that as chief publicity
officer to the Government; he drew £3750
p.a. and earned every bit of it. Publicity
work was an afterthought with Leslie.
From Oxford he went to the University
of North Wales as lecturer in Philosophy
before coming back to Melbourne to a
similar post. In 1926, Prime Minister
Bruce bore him off to an Imperial Con-
ference, and when Bruce returned to Aus-
tralia Leslie stayed on in London, open-
ing up as an advertising consultant. To
Londoners he is best known as the
creator of Mr. Therm of the Gas Light
Company’s advertisements, but since 1940
he has been a Government man, closely
associated with Herbert Morrison, first
as Director of Public Relations, then as
Director of the Council of Industrial
Design. “Britain Can Make It” was his
brain child.
Visiting Australia on a tour which will
epibrace New Zealand, Canada and
U.S.A., Rev. Eric Loveday has been vicar
of the famous old London church, St.
Martin-in-the-Fields, since 1941. St.
Martin’s was one of the first churches in
the world to broadcast its services—
“ Dick” Shepherd was the pioneer—and
Loveday himself has been broadcasting
religious talks over the 8.8. C. for more
than 20 years. During the last six years
he has been heard regularly on the 8.8. C,
oversea programme.
Passed through Sydney on his way
back from Britain, where he has been
doing research work, Charles Melbourne
Focken, 1923 Victorian Rhodes Scholar
and at present Lecturer in Physics at the
University of Otago (M.L.). While
abroad Dr. Focken visited the atomic-
research centre at Harwell, near Oxford,
which many Australian and New Zealand
airman will recall as the site of a R.A.F.
training station during the war. He
anticipates that Britain’s first atomic pile
should be working at Harwell by Sep-
tember.
In an office lately vacated by Unk
White there was left on the wall an
imaginative sketch of an old harridan
entitled “Lousy Kate.” The actual model
for the sketch was a back view of artist
SCHOLARSHIP IN ART.
Frank Beck —the drawing was done in
Beck’s studio, where he, Unk and a third
young artist, Peter Harrigan, have for
months been gathering once a week for
a spot of sketching practice. The prac-
tice, along with natural ability and study
at Julian Ashton’s art school, has netted
young Harrigan the £10t)0 scholarship
generously put up by Jimmy Bancks in
the cause of Australian black-and-white.
Harrigan, bora at Dorrigo (N.S.W.), is
23. He was carpentering at Garden
Island, Sydney, before he joined the
Army, and served in New Guinea and at
Balikpapan with the Ist Corps Sigs. He
studied drawing with Julian Ashton be-
fore the war, kept at it while he was in
uniform and, after his discharge, obtained
full-time study at the Ashton school under
the rehab, scheme. A quiet, serious young
man with a ready sense of humor, he is
off to America for two years under the
Bancks scholarship.
Still young at 96, Tom Palmer Archer,
who left Launceston (Tas.) in 1868 for
Round Hill Station, near Albury, and
four years later, with his brother Fred,
took cattle from Warrnambool to
Jundah in Queensland to open up a
station there. When they were later
washed out by heavy floods, Tom went
overlanding and stocked several of the
large stations then being formed in
Western and Northern Queensland. With
his brother he founded Warrnambool
Downs, near Winton, and for many
years he managed stations in N.S.W.,
Queensland! and W.A., finally retiring ,to
Victoria. Deciding last year to end his
days in Tasmania he took off by air from
Melbourne for Launceston, where a
married daughter lives. Archer’s wife
was Laura O’Ferrall, a sister of “Kodak”
of The Bulletin. She wrote under the
pen-name of “Bushwoman,” and pub-
lished two books of bush yarns.
Wing-Commander A. B. McFarlane,
D.F.C. —-“Tich” to his friends —is the new
director of R.A.A.F. training. Like
his predecessor, Wing-Commander N. N.
Ford, he hails from the Yarra. Mc-
Farlane was a flight-commander in No. 6
Squadron in 1940, where ho learned to
fly Hudsons under Pat Hall. Later he
took charge of No. 2 Squadron, which
was also equipped with Hudsons; it was
then that he won his D.F.C. for out-
standing gallantry against superior oppo-
sition. He was on Ambon when
the Japs landed in force, and when all
the aircraft had been destroyed he walked
across the island and was lucky to be
' picked up by that famous rescue
merchant John Hampshire in a Sunder-
land. After spending most of the war
fighting the Japs “Tich” gravitated to the
staff at Air Board in 1944, and has been
in the directorate of training ever since.
“Curtain Raiser”: The New York
cableman was a bit out when he said
that A.8.C., in refusing a full recording of
a broadcast of the works of Cyril Jen-
kins, offered by Columbia Broadcasting,
was slighting a Melbourne composer.
Cyril Jenkins is a Welsh composer who
had made a high reputation in Great
Britain before he came to Australia
with a severe wound incurred during the
1914-18 war. He was for some time
music critic for a Melbourne daily and
frequently heard some of his own works
performed at the Town Hall, but it is
true that the A.B.C. took little notice
of him when he was in Melbourne. He
was engaged on a big oratorio while he
was in Australia and when he went to
U.S. found he was well known. The
Tabernacle Choir of Salt Lake City was
to give a performance of his works on
June 29. The Columbia people regarded
it as one of the musical events of the
year and were putting it over a nation-
wide circuit.
A. F. Bell, Queensland’s new Under-
secretary of Agriculture and Stock, brings
wide and varied experience to the job.
An Old Digger, he won a sugar research
travelling scholarship at the Queensland
Uni. in 1924, becoming pathologist to the
Sugar Experiment Station Bureau, and
later acting-director. A former president
of the Australian Agricultural Science
Institute and of the Queensland Society
of Sugar Cane Technologists, he is
deputy-chairman of the Bureau of Inves-
tigation of Land and Water Resources, a
member of the C.5.1.R., the University
Faculty of Agriculture and the Australian
Chemical Institute.
One of eight outside Royalty and the
solitary holder of the honor outside Great
Britain, Sir Heaton Rhodes (M.L.) has
had conferred on him the Bailiff Grand
Cross of the Order of St. John of Jerusa-
lem. Born at Lyttelton 86 years ago, he
was educated in M.L. and at Oxford,
graduated M.A. and was admitted to the
Bar. Entering M.L. politics, he won the
Ellesmere seat in 1899 and retired about
20 years ago. He held office in the Massey
Government as Minister of Defence and
Postmaster-General 1912-15. Rhodes was
captain of the Canterbury Yeomanry
Cavalry during the South African war.
A lifelong worker for the Red Cross, he
visited the various fronts during the First
World War as commissioner. Returning
to MX. he rejoined the Massey Cabinet
and was knighted in 1920.
When Roy McLachlan, of Naracoorte
(S.A.), took his seat in the S.A. Assembly
last month he became the third genera-
tion of his family to sit in that House.
His grandfather, James, represented
Wooroora from 1893 to 1909 ; one of a
group of unofficial C.P. men known as
the Nimble Nine. James’s son James also
SEAT IN PARLIAMENT.
represented Wooroora —from 1918 to
1930, when he resigned on appointment
to the S.A. Pastoral Board; he was-an
the Senate for 12 years, 1935-47, The
third McLachlan, sketched here by
Coventry, won back for the Liberal-
Country League the Victoria seat held
by a popular Labor man, Corcoran.
Detective-Sub-Inspector J. R. Birch,
recently awarded the King’s Medal for
distinguished conduct, was jokingly
known during the war as the chief of
the Gestapo. As head of the Victorian
Police Special Counter-Espionage Service,
he was noted for his lightning swoops
on spots in the city, suburbs and country
where unregistered aliens and sus-
pected spies foregathered. His biggest
coup was in the Goulburn Valley, where
hundreds of prisoners were on the point
of escaping from internment via a secret
tunnel. His earliest was made on the
tick of the clock when Hitler erupted;
hundreds of aliens were rounded up
within 24 hours. Birch owns a watch
given to him by the Duke of Gloucester.
He retired last year at 64.
“Kapooka”: Coventry’s caricature of
Brigadier Veale (B. 21/5/’47) took me
back to the night of the first concert held
in Kapooka Hall, R.A.E. Training
Centre, Wagga, where the Brigadier was
C.O. One of the items was a lightning-
sketch artist. He was a tall figure in
skin-tight check breeks, a scarlet nose
and a toreador’s haL From top to bot-
tom of his board he spelt the word
Timor in large letters, and then with a
few strokes and curves produced a start-
ling likeness of Brigadier Veale, who was
sitting in the front row. There was a
howl of laughter that rocked the hall.
The game sapper was Ray Whiting, The
Bulletin black-and-whiter and one of
the boys of Alamein. We didn’t expect
to see Ray for a while after that, but the
Brigadier took it like the good sport we
always found him.
Dead in Sydney, at 65, Frederick
Edward French, former commodore of
P and O. Steamship Line. As skipper
of the mail steamers Mooltan, Naldera,
Corfu and Stratheden he was associated
with the Australian trade for many years
and made a host of friends in these parts,
which is probably the reason why, when
he retired from the sea in 1944, he chose
Sydney as his home. A R.N.R. man with
service in World War I, he was in com-
mand of Stratheden at the outbreak of
Hitler’s war, and it was his proud claim
that the liner was the first vessel to pass
through submarine-infested waters. A
plaque presented by passengers to com-
memorate the event still adorns Strath-
eden.
Into the silence:
In London at 75, Admiral Wilmot Stuart
Nicholson, C.B. Before death came to the
admiral he was one of the few survivors
of the ship’s company of the corvette
H.M.S. Calliope, famous for her exploit in
standing out of Apia, Samoa, in the great
hurricane of March, 1889, when six other ships,
mostly German and American, stayed at their
anchors and were overwhelmed in the harbor.
In Hobart, at 84, Frank Charles King Pitt,
breeder of Hereford cattle, which he raised
on his properties at Glen Dhu and Kenmere.
He was 47 years a councillor of the Hamilton
municipality and a one-time district coroner.
Pitt’s paternal grandfather came to Tasmania
with Governor Collins in 1804, and his mother’s
father was William George Evans, discoverer
of Bathurst Plains in N.S.W. and first
Surveyor-General in Tasmania.
In Melbourne, at 64, Judge Hugh C. G.
Macindoe, who retired from the County Court
two years ago through ill-health. A Gallipoli
veteran, he enlisted as a private and won a
commission. He was public prosecutor in
Pretoria in 1907 and became Crown Prosecu-
tor in Melbourne in 1919.
At 70, in Melbourne, Dr. Basil Kilvington,
an authority on Australiana and known all
over the world in philately circles. He was
medical member of Melbourne Rotary.
In Adelaide, at 79, Edward Harold Davies,
Professor of Music at Adelaide University and
Director of the Elder Conservatorium for the
past 28 years. Born at Oswestry (Eng.), he
came to Australia at 20. At Adelaide Univer-
sity he gained a doctorate in music—the first
conferred by an Australian university. He was
founder and first conductor of the S.A.
Orchestra, of the Adelaide Bach Society, and
the creator of the Australian Music Examination
Board.
Died at. the wheel of his car while on his
way to a patient, Dr. John Gray, of Melbourne.
He served in both wars —in the second in the
Middle East and the islands.
In Adelaide, at 82, Charles Edward Gold-
smith, former manager of the Savings Bank
of SA. During his service bank funds grew
from £1,500,000 to £22,000,000 and the number
of accounts rose from about 4000 to over half
a million.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Monty has conquered another city.
But Melbourne didn’t lie at his feet.
Rather it surged around him, at times
rather alarmingly in its enthusiasm,
whenever the hero of El Alamein showed
himself. It needed only the cry to go up
“Here comes Monty” and the crowds
were out on the road, breaking through
police guards and attempting to shake
the warrior’s hand. And he loved every
minute of it. But it was among ex-
servicemen and -women that he found
his greatest joy. No social functions were
arranged for the Chief of the Imperial
General Staff. He made them impromptu,
on pavement, in hospitals, and where
Diggers in their conviviality forgathered.
Following the example of the Gov-
ernor, Sir Winston Dugan, men wore
their decorations at the American Ball.
Women, of course, wore their loveliest
gowns for this terpsichorean celebration
of Independence Day, which also pro-
vided the Children’s Hospital with more
money to carry on its grand work. Venue
of the festivities was St. Kilda Town
Hall, and highlight of the decorations
was the eighteenth-century elegance of the
official party’s enclosure. Here was a
a graceful drawing-room complete with
dainty Louis XIV furniture. Gazing
down benevolently on this scene of
Anglo-American goodwill was George
Washington, his portrait draped with red,
white and blue. Mrs. R. B. Bradley,
president of the American Women’s
Auxiliary and of the ball committee, was
unable through illness to be present, and
in her absence Mrs. Ethel Young and
her son Neville received the official party.
Lady Dugan wore a beautiful gown of
aquamarine-blue, silver-threaded brocade,
draped into a bustle at the back. Aqua-
marine and diamond clips were featured
at the neckline. Guests at the official
table included the American Consul-
General, Richard Boyce, and his wife and
Sir John and Lady Latham, who is presi-
dent of the Children’s Hospital. New
arrivals from the U.S.A. were Mr. and
Mrs. H. Bettle, her gown of off-white
crepe highlighted by a swathed bodice
onVhich green leavfes were appliqued, and
with a waterfall drape at the side of the
skirt. Evie Hayes wore a Molyneaux
gown of blue brocade and a white-fox
cape. At midnight Web Tilton ushered in
the Fourth by singing the “Star Spangled
Banner.” Mrs. Tilton’s black taffetas
featured a bodice with an off-the-shoulder
line, the two-tiered skirt having a wide
side drape. Jeannette Kulken, smart in a
lace-trimmed pink taffeta gown, was with
her parents, Mr. and Mrs, H. Kulken, of
New Jersey. Mrs. Kulken and Jeannette
will return to America shortly, while Mr.
Kulken remains in Melbourne for some
months. Mrs, John McGrath chose pink-
moss crepe which was worn with a white-
fox cape. Mrs. Ray Dunn allied a black
taffeta gown with an Edwardian hair-
do and a diamond ornament on a black
velvet neckband.
The home of the U.S. Consul-General
and Mrs. Richard Boyce was filled with
crowds of Americans- and their friends
for the party to celebrate the Gloriou
Fourth. Mrs. Boyce pinned a purple
orchid in the jacket of her black slipper
satin suit. Helping with the entertaining
were vice-consuls and their wives. Arch-
bishop and Mrs. Booth came for a short
courtesy call, as did Lord Mayor Con-
nelly and Lady Mayoress Mrs. Bernarc
Heinze. Mrs. J. O. Haselden and Pene-
lope Nettlefold came from Governmem
House, Penelope wearing a gown of
white crepe with an imprint of pastel-
blue. Both had to leave early for
dinner party at G.H. in honor of Field-
Marshal Lord Montgomery. Many of
the guests took a reluctant farewell of
Capt. Tommy Tompkins, U.S.A. Nava]
Attache, and his wife. They have both
been very popular in this city and now
return to Washington. Eleanor Booth,
co-worker with Mrs. Helen Wessells,
former Director of the U.S.A. Informa-
tion Library, wore Chartreuse crepe
with a floral lame jacket. The R. G.
Caseys came, Mrs. Casey irl a black
dinner gown and short black Persian
lamb jacket. Mrs. George Redd’s royal-
blue tailored coat was yoked in white
ermine.
Overcast skies, bitter winds and an
occasional shower were reasons for a
“tweedy” day for the Grand National
meeting at Flemington. The dolman
sleeve, longer skirts and longer jackets
w’ere notable. The off-the-face hat
seems to have come to stay and universal
trimmings for it are ribbons or feathers.
Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade’s dark-green
tweed suit featured the new box jacket
with a hood lined with tartan, matching
her blouse, Mrs. Phillip Russell, of
Beaufort, combined a dark-green beret
and frock with a brown fur coat. Mrs.
Trevor Clarke chose a slate-green tailored
suit with an overcheck in red. Her
matching green hat was trimmed with
red pompons, and her brown suede fur-
lined ankle boots must have been envied
by many. In the G.H. party was Lady
Dunwich, who wore a fawn-and-brown
check suit; her brown felt bowler hat
had the brim bound with dark-green
ribbon. She was accompanied by her two
daughters, the Hon. Mary and Hon.
Penelope Rous. Wife of the chairman
of the V.R.C., Mrs. Richard Turnbull,
wore a mink coat over her brown frock ;
her light beige felt hat was trimmed with
a brown-and-black feather quill. Felt
hats are no longer dull and uninteresting ;
they are made more dressy by glowing
pheasant feathers and little ostrich
feather mounts. Bowlers are tied up
with veiling.
Margaret Mouchemore, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. J. Mouchemore, of
East Kew, who is in her third year Arts,
achieves one of her ambitions when she
acts Lady Macbeth in the M.U.D.C. pro-
duction which commences a 10-nights
season tonight. Margaret has appeared
on many occasions with the M.U.D.C.
and the Little Theatre, but this is her
first important role. Dorian LeGallienne
has composed the music for the Shak-
speare play. Margaret, like other mem-
bers of the cast, has made her own cos-
tumes. Production of “Macbeth” is in
the hands of Assoc. Prof. Keith Macart-
ney and his assistant, Joy Youlden. New
Talma Studio photo.
The Lord Mayor, Cr. Ray Connelly,
and the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, were host and hostess at an
afternoon tea party held at the Town
Hall to launch the Red Cross appeal.
Mrs. Heinze’s tailored black coat had a
grey fox fur collar ; her black hat was
trimmed with black ostrich feathers set
at one side. The commitee goes into
action in earnest with a ball on July 11
at the Town Hall at which the Governor
and Lady Dugan will be present. Mrs.
G. I. Stevenson will be in charge of the
decorations. The four ticket secretaries
were at the party. They are Mrs. Colin
Clarke, whose green suit was worn with
brown accessories, Janine Heath, trim in
a grey tailored suit, Mrs. R. Windyer,
suited in midnight-blue wool, and May
Angliss, whose burgundy ensemble was
worn with matching accessories.
The president. Miss Lois Savage, and
the ladies’ council of the Opportunity
Club for Boys and Girls are working
hard to establish a holiday home for
girls. The boys have their own holiday
home at Narbethong, but a home has to
be borrowed every time a holiday is
planned for the girls. At an afternoon
tea party for presswomen the president
said that the newly-formed Younger Set
would help along the good work and
assist the funds by holding functions.
Rhoda Dartnell is president of the
Younger Set, with Joan Dott as secre-
tary and) Ellenore Blythen treasurer.
Shirley Gillespie-Jones is ticket secretary
for the first money-raising effort of the
Younger Set, a dance at Tudor Court on
August 15. -Miss Savage pinned a spray
or orchids in her brown frock. Mrs.
Wunderly’s burgundy frock was worn
under a squirrel coat. With her black
angora ensemble and small cyclamen hat
Mrs. Olive Thring wore a silver-fox
stole ; Mrs. Manicom pinned a spray of
daphne on her brown fur coat.
From Sydney
Sydney has made its plans for the
welcoming of Field-Marshal Viscount
Montgomery,, and now it is praying that
blue skies and sunshine will make
Monty’s all-too-short visit a pleasant one.
A Sydney woman guest at one of the
Canberra social functions, speaking of
Monty, said she didn’t wonder he is
the small boys’ idol, and then addec
“Well, it would be a wonder if he wasn’t
The small boys’ soldier-fathers thin]
that way, too.”
One of the few women who will mee
Monty is Lieut.-Colonel Constance A
Fall, principal matron of the A.A.N.S.
now supervising the army wing ol
the Repat. General Hospital at Concord.
She is the only woman R.S.L. council-
lor, and she has been invited to the
luncheon to be given at the Trocadero
on Saturday in the distinguished visitor’s
honor by the representatives of the ser-
vice organisations and clubs.
Earlier in ths day, after the parade at
the barracks, and before his talk in
the Domain, Mrs. F. H. Berryman,, wife
of G.O.C. Eastern Command Lieut.-
General Berryman, and wives of senior
officers will have tea with him in the
officers’ mess. Monty will be the guest of
the Governor, Lieut.-General Northcott,
during his stay in Sydney.
Among the v.i.p. to arrive in Sydney
last week were Eugene Goossens and his
attractive wife. They came on Wednesday,
and on Thursday Mr. Goossens had taken
up his duties as Director of the Con-
servatorium and Permanent Conductor of
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra. His
opinion of our orchestra is very high, and
he plans to place it among the best six in
the world. Its technique is perfect, he
says, and all it lacks is perfection of style.
Among his plans is a concert hall fpr
the orchestra with perfect acoustics and
seating accommodation for 1500, a home
for an opera company and a small hall
for chamber music. As for the Conser-
vatorium, he sees no reason why this
should not reach the status of the big
music schools of the world. He promises
all students who show talent his help to
go abroad.
The Lady Mayoress looked very tiny
as she stood beside Mrs. Goossens at the
Town Half when she and the Lord Mayor
gave a welcome-to-Sydney party for the
Eugene Goossens couple. Mrs. Bartley’s
smart black suit was double-breasted;
her black hat was gay with loops of
-olored ribbons. Mrs. Goossens, pictured
here, wore a black frock embroidered
with white crowns (in shape very like the
royal crown of England). Over this was
a mink cape and on her head a curvette
of black-ribbon bows.
In the moving groups were noted Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, whose sage-green frock was
worn with a cape of the same shade
bordered and collared in black Persian
lamb. Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones’s Persian
lamb full-length coat was grey. Her hat
an outsize in stitched taffeta, had a slight
curl in its brim just across the face.
Sydney Ure Smith was there, all his in-
terest at the moment being the Art
Society’s show which takes place in
August. Professor Burke, of Melbourne,
will open this; and the textile show,
which Mrs. Goossens/he hopes, will open
in September. The Roland Fosters, the
Harald Bowdens and Strella Wilson
talked together. Margaret Gillespie told
friends of letters received from members
of the Boyd Neel Orchestra, now in
N.Z., and of the immense cake members
of the Lunch Time Music Club are send-
ing to this group. Incidentally, the Red
Cross is making the cake, so Graythwaite
will benefit.
On the day when we had already paid
out our extra penny for a tram ride,
when we had heard that the cost of
electricity would go up, and when we
realised that though fewer coupons would
be clipped for our frocks and suits they
would be more expensive, it was good to
slip into the Grosvenor Galleries for the
opening of Kenneth Rowell’s exhibition
of Ballet Art. Here was nothing of
realism; all was pure fantasy. The
elegant young ladies in their bustled
costumes, the bejewelled figures, the
masks and the Scene Model and the Bas
Relief setting with a Grecian Theme
just blotted out for an hour or so the
irritating things of the workaday world.
Tamara Tchinarova (Mrs. Peter Finch)
opened the show. To it came so many of
our ballet lovers, to say nothing of the
group from the Borovansky ballet, th
long before the hour of three the roo
were packed, and the little red seal, o
ward sign of a show’s success, had be
attached to many of the canvas
Tchinarova’s berry-red frock of so]
woollen material was worn under a kne
length black Persian lamb coat, and s
held a tight little Victorian posy ol
lavender and tiny pink flowers whi
making her speech. Dancer Jonet Wilk
and artist Thea Proctor stood by. Willia
Dargie, up from Melbourne to paint ti
portrait of Sir Marcus Clark, was amon
those to offer congratulations to the artisi
Louden St. Hill, Edgar Richards, Dona
Friend and Paul Jones were others. M
Marie Darling was one of the man
buyers.
. This was Kenneth Rowell’s first sho
in Sydney, but his work is well-know
in Melbourne and Adelaide. He leav
towards the end of the month for En
land to study English theatres, but b
fore doing so he will design the scener
and costumes for the Joanne Prie
group’s new ballet.
Of Queensland interest was the wee
ding of Mary Ellen, only daughter oi
the H. J. Arida«, of Hughenden,
Queensland, and Desmond, third son o
the P. A. Hogans, also of that town
The ceremony was at St. Mary
Cathedral, and Father A. Hogan, brothe
of the bridegroom, flew from Brisban
to officiate. The bride’s frock was o:
ivory brocaded satin, and her veil o
Brussels lace fell in graceful folds righ
down to the hem of the long train. Mr
Albert Anthony, of Charters Tower
Therese Sarks, Therese Mellick anc
Mary McCabe attended the bride. Thei
frocks of white marquisette over taffet
were worn with curvettes of red roses
Reception was at the Carlton, and amon
the guests were Consul-General fo
Lebanon H. J. Sheba and his wife, who
is an aunt of the bride, and cousin
Alam, M.L.C., and his wife.
Artists, musical, literary and of th
brush, were guests at the Roland Foste
party on Sunday. The rest of the com
pany was composed of most charmin]
people who make no claim to be artists
of any sort. Of course, the artists are
always charming. Mrs. Foster’s frock
was of dusty-pink crepes, with which she
wore two orchids of the same shade
The flower pieces were of hawthorn
berries, stock and huge bowls of violets
The invitations were in rhyme, and there
was great merriment over the replies
also in rhyme, when they were read alouc
by Roland. America’s Consul-Genera
Orsen Neilson and his wife were there
and with them came America’s new con-
sular couple, Mr, and Mrs. Knowlton
Hicks, and daughter Elizabeth.
John Charles Thomas knows at firs
hand what Sydney thinks of his singing
Sydney likes the man as well as the
singer. It likes him for the pleasure he
gave the patients of 113th General Hos-
pital, Concord, when he Went out and
spent a morning singing for them, for
his arranging a “special” broadcast of
part of a Town Hall concert so that his
friend, E. J. Tait, who was too ill to be
present, “could be with us” —and for
adding “God Bless Australia” to the
chorus of “God Bless America”' which he
sang at America’s July 4 concert. Also
for the thought behind his words at his
last concert, “I would have come ten
times as far to experience what I have
here,” and his acknowledgment of the
friendly warmth that he had met during
his season with us.
So high is the interest tempera-
ture of University world in the
forthcoming S.U.D.S. production of
Flecker’s “Hassan” that, once inside
the gates, infection is certain. To
the party given by Mrs. Stephen Roberts,
wife of the Acting Deputy Chancellor,
and Patron of the Group, to the wives
of the Professors came many of the
Professors themselves. Among them Pro-
fessor of Oriental Languages Sadler.
There was no formality about this
gathering, as everyone knew every-
one else. After the tea-drinking
Mrs. Roberts told of the aims of the
Society, and of its hopes to have in
the not-too-far-distant days a theatre in
the University, all of which was greatly
applauded. Then producer Sam Hughes
spoke on “Hassan” and on the play’s
creator, poet James Elroy Flecker. John
Antill, who has written the enchanting
music, added his quota to the inspiring talks.
The play has been in rehearsal for
some months, so that diction, tone and
posture should be perfect. Director of
the Technical College, Frank Medworth,
has given permission to the rehabilita-
tion students to paint the scenery, and,
as artist and teacher James Cook is in
charge of this end of the production, all
is well.
Remember that thfe second annual ball
of the 2/3rd Anti-Tank, A.1.F., Associa-
tion will be held in the Grace Auditorium
tomorrow night. Lieut.-General Sir Leslie
Morshead and Lady Morshead will be
present.


''IT TAKES SKILL IN
BLENDING to get
COLOURS LIKE THAT' 7
"YES, AND IT TAKES
skill in Blending
TO GET WHISKY LIKE
1 BLACK & WHITE'"
*>
r
\
5 4,
k
'i'.vV
V>
KJu
aJ*!?
g
By Appointment
To H.M. King George VI,
w
Scotch Whisky . Distillers,
James Buchanan and Co. Ltd
BLACK
&
WHITE’ 1
/
SCOTCH WHISKY
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
■Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury;. Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phoue (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1938 • 243,859 62,516 7 p.c. = 168,000 1,681,804
Special tax provision, £38,000 .. 1,643,304
Goodwill new businesses, £21,657 .. 1,621,647
1939 179,660 62,500 ii p.c. = 108,000 1,630,807
• Added goodwill, £4lOO .. •• 1,626,707
1940 260,096 62,499 6} p.c. = 156,000 1,668,304
Net addition goodwill, £6OO .. 1,667,704
1941 240,007 62,349 7 p.c. = 168,000 1,677,362
Net addition goodwill, £1524 .. 1,675,838
1942 194,224 62,297 5 p.c.' = 120,000 1,687,765
Net addition goodwill, £7 .. .. 1,687,758
1943 210,068 62,297 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,691,529
Net addition goodwill, £4015 .. 1,687,514
1944 260,878 62,276 6 p.c. = 144,000.1,742,116
1945 194,077 62,094 5i „ „ 132,000 1,742,099
Net .addition goodwill, £8729 .. 1,788,370
1946 188,912 62,097 5J pic. = 132,000 1,728,185
1947 229,539 62,097 6 „ „ 144,000 1,751,627
This is Australia’s second biggest wool-
and stock - broking, pastoral - finance,
pastoral, merchandising and agency busi-
ness, and it keeps on expanding. It is
strongest in N. S. Wales, where about
orie-third of the wool handled is received.
Conditions last term were mixed.
Drought, which reduced Australia’s
sheep population from 125.5 millions in
1942 to 105 millions in 1945, had lowered
the figures to 96.3 millions at end March,
1946. Since then seasonal conditions
have been fair in Vic., S. Aus. and West-
ralia, but unfavorable in the west of both
N. S. Wales and Queensland, where the
co.’s own runs are. On its two holdings
in Central Queensland, portions of which
are being resumed for closer settlement,
heavy losses of sheep occurred, and the
blowfly was troublesome. And so was
ithe dingo, which was also responsible for
stock losses in country around the
Hammersley Ranges (W.A.) and in the
north of S. Aus. Another trouble is
the spread of Noogoora burr, mainly con-
fined to Queensland, where about 8 p.c.
of the clip affected, the aggregate
annual loss to growers being now about
quarter of a million pounds. Methods
of carbonising used for removing Bathurst
and other burrs are not suitable for deal-
ing with Noogoora, which pulls down the
price of the staple at auction.
Turnover, however, shot up to a record
£21,000,000-odd, thanks to high and rising
prices for wool and livestock, increased
activity in the merchandising department,
and to expansion of activities —half a
dozen hew branches were opened during
the previous term. An extra 32,700 bales
of wool were received:
Bales Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold, etc. Forward, per Bale, t
1939.. 302,563 351,791 26,166 £l3 4 0
1942.. 391,000 383,259 22,820 17 12 9J
1943.. 387,200 385,985 24,069 20 17 01
1944.. 409,500 404,423 29,105 20 10 0}
1945.. 359,500 379,275 9,397 20 0 01
1946.. 293,800 291,796 11,445 20 8 91
1947.. 326,500 289,655 47,826 31 10 01
t For year to June 30. 1 Approximate.
The heavy carry-forward (up 36,381 bales)
would be mostly cleared before the season
closed. In addition to the current clip,
good clearances of war-time surplus
stocks were effected. ' Strong and sus-
tained demand from U.S., the Continent,
Australian mills and U.K. pressed prices
steadily up. For 11 months to end May
the Australian clip realised £86.2 millions,
or £32.3 millions more than for the
corresponding period of the previous
season. Average price per pound (greasy
and scoured combined) was 25.4.1 d., an
increase of 56.6 p.c.
In addition to its wool and merchan-
dising transactions, the co. put under
the hammer approximately 4,000,000
sheep, 240,000 cattle, 110,000 pigs, and
land sales exceeded £1,750,000. After
providing for contingencies, the spring
in gross earnings from all sources (in-
cluding a surplus of £6099 on realisation
of property, etc.) was £205,050:
Provi-
Year Gross* Debenture dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
1939.. 736,285 548,125 62,500 8,500 117,160
1942 . . 921,269 717,253 62,297 9,792 131,927
1943.. 994,253 774,02 V 62,297 10,158 147,771
1944. . 1,105,520 834,112 62,276 10,530 198,602
1945.. 981,468 727,014 62,094 10,377 131,983
1946.. 924,990 725,776 62,097 10,302 126,815
1947. . 1,130,040 888,340 62,097 j. 2,161 167,442
* Includes surplus on realisation of investments.
There was an all-round lift in exes,
totalling £162,564. Allowing for deben-
ture interest and contribution to the staff
fund, the net result (up £40,627) was
6.9 p.c. on capital, or only a wink over
4 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined). Half a point
was a<jded to the div., making it a
moderate 6 p.c.
Balance-sheet movements reflect mainly
the heavy carry-over, higher values and
demand from clients for restocking, etc.,
after drought:
1941. 1943. 1946. 1947.
£,£>£>£
Capital . . 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures 1,412,586 1,412,536 1,407,549 1,407,549
Creditors . . 881,960 933,517 1,020,37.8 1,609,213
Tax reserve 105,413 174,915 150,278 155,714
Liquids . . 790,048 1,641,657 2,056,000 2,193,139
Advances . . 4,321,102 3,631,342 3,364,176 3,788,827
Stocks . . £47,553 211,992 183,591 244,988
Shares . . 44,121 45,406 45,406 45,566
Prop’ty, etc. 1,132,172 1,095,015 1,079,991 1,072,849
Plant . . 96,825 83,085 61,226 74,744
To carry an extra £424,651 of advances,
add £61,397 to merchandising stocks,
etc., and strengthen liquids by £137,139
the co. went outside for a further £588,835.
The old debenture debt (a reminder
of the 1890’s), which has become a drag,
is to be redeemed at a premium of 5 p.c.
on January 1 next. There is £828,030
and £579,519, carrying 4 p.c. and 5 p.c.
respectively, held partly in England and
partly in Australia. Including exchange,
the lot cost or 5.4 p.c. last term.
Premium and exchange on repay-
ment are to be charged against
reserves. The amount involved will
be £423,000 if English holders are
paid in sterling and Australian in Aus-
tralian currency, or £448,000 if all are
paid in sterling. The Supreme Court of
Victoria has been asked to settle the ques-
tion.
The money will come partly from an
issue of 800,000 new” £4 shares at par
to those on the register at June 27, and
partly from liquids, which include
£2,047,002 of public securities. So the
co. will still be well equipped to further
assist clients as the need arises. For
the current term the new scrip will carry
one-third of the div. on old shares. Im-
provement in the seasonal outlook and
prospects of continued demand
and good prices for wool give repetition
of the 6 p.c. div. an encouraging appear-
ance.
The market prices the f.-p. pound
shares, covered by 355. sd. in net tan-
gibles, at 325., at which figure the return
is 3.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div, basis. Rights
to the new issue at 10s. 3d., or there-
abouts, give a slightly better return.
Morris, Hedstrom Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends ,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£* £* £* £* £,*
1938.. 85,097 18,152 8i p.c.= 44,235 27,710 238,315
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 233,315
From contingencies, £13,000.. .. 246,315
1939.. 56,366 13,152 6 p.c. = 31.225 11,989 258,304
1940.. 56,684 13,152 6 „ „ 31,225 12,307 270,611
Plantations written down £20,000,
“mainly” from inner reserves.
From dividend suspense, £6939 .. 277,550
1941.. 55,306 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 10,929 288,479
To Fiji Bomber Fund, £5OOO .. 283,479
1942.. 61,770 13,152 6 p.c.= 31,224 17,394 300,873
To Fiji Fighter Fund, £5550 .. 295,353
War-risk fund created, £160,000 . . 455,323
1943.. 94,769 13,152 8J p.c.= 44,234 37,383 492,706
To patriotic funds, £7355 .. .. 485,351
To staff fund, £5OOO 480,351
1944.. 99,088 13,152 8$ p.c.= 44,236 41,700 522,051
To patriotic funds, £lBO5 .. .. 250,246
To University scholarship, £25,000.. 495,246
Inner reserves disclosed, £128,000., 623,246
1945.. 94,678 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,041 29,485 652,731
1946.. 94,210 13,152 15 „ „ 78,059 2,997 655,728
Capital profit, £42,872 .. .. 698,600
1947.. 548.13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 88,536 736,956
To staff funds, £25,000 . . . . 711,956
* Fijian currency.
The co.’s f.-p„ pound ords. were officially
undervalued in the Australian market at
the old ceiling of 335. 3d. at end 1946.
On abandonment of controls the figure
shot up to 50s. 3d. in January, advanced
to 545. 6d. in the following month, then
eased to 525, 6d., and has steadied around
that level. Allowing for exchange
(£FIOO '== £A112.06), the return to the
Australian investor at 525. 6d. is 4.2 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. at 31s.'6d. also yield 4.2 p.c.
The £739,613 of capital—2l9,2o6
prefs. and 520,407 ords.—is supported
and assisted by £711,956 of reserves, giv-
ing a net tangible backing of £6 12s. sd.
prefs. and 475. 4d. ords. And there is
more wheat in thfe ear than the eye can
see, notwithstanding disclosure of the
best part of £288,000 of inner reserves
since 1942. The policy has been to keep
. divs. moderate and underpin the financial
structure, visible and otherwise, against
the impact of possible misfortune, such
as befel the co. in the short, sharp slump
after World War I, when a loss of £90,074
showed up in 1922. For the 16 years to
the close of accounts in 1939 the ords.
averaged 5.7 p.c. For the next three
years 6 p.c. was paid, followed by two
lots of 81 p.c., and then 10 p.c. for the
last three years, sweetened with a 5 p.c.
victory bonus in 1946.
The co. is a big merchant and planta-
tion owner with headquarters at Suva
(Fiji). Trading conditions have varied
since war began. Collapse of the
copra market caused a sharp drop in
profits in 1939, and the shipping bottle-
neck and rising costs kept earnings down
for the next couple of years. Then, fol-
lowing Japan’s entry into the war early
in 1942, the Allies became involved in
heavy expenditure in the islands. .At
the same time two-thirds of the world’s
copra supply was cut off, and control of
the industry in the South Pacific passed
to the British Ministry of Food, which
is still sole buying and shipping agent for
the stuff at good prices in this area, and
seems likely to remain so for some time,
at any rate. In these circumstances the
co.’s earnings went up with a rush.
Fighting ended in August, 1945, but
the trade recession" expected to follow
termination of abnormal war-time spend-
ing has been offset by revival of civilian
demand, strengthened by high prices paid
for island produce. Last term copra rose
from over £lB to a ton, the out-
put of sugar nearly doubled, and the
price rose to a record figure of over £2O
a ton for raws, while gold production and
other activities increased. Improvement
in the co.’s gross earnings (£313,048) was
£41,991. Exes. (£219,755) took £35,608
of the gain. Including £10,257 dropped
into insurance reserve, and allowing for
minor adjustments, the net result
was £9347 stronger at £103,548. That
covered the pref. div. and 17.3 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 15.5, 15.6, 16.1,
15.7, 9.3, 8.1 and 8.3 p.c. back to 1940.
A capital profit of £42,872 was added to
general reserves. The victory bonus sent
out in the previous year was not repeated,
leaving the div. at 10 p.c.
The immediate outlook for copra and
other island products is one of continued
strong demand and good prices. What
will happen after the big trade vacuums
created by the war are filled, and the
Philippines and Netherlands Indies get
into full swing again, remains to be seen.
Finances are robust:
1940. 1942. 1946. 1947.
£ £ £ £
(Fijian). (Fijian). (Fijian). (Fijian).
Paid capital.. 789,613 739,613 739,613 789,613
Deposits . . 4,946 1,631 3,870 8,897
Creditors, etc. 18,999 63,451 153,899 117,540
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 308,195 278,070 170,392 192,241
Plantations . . 49,247 20,508 19,289 16,954
Stocks, etc. . . 337,110 249,297 237,733 260,261
Investments &
cash . . 107,256 411,621 1,133,807 1,032,095
Capital value ,
branches . . 90,465 76,676 51,165 75,176
Book debts, etc. 136,244 116,113 95,629 171,122
Investments and cash alone (down
£101,772 last term) total £292,482 more
than paid capital, and stock and debtors’
balances are over three and a half times
the amount coming to outsiders.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. • Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1937.. 12,955 7 p.c. = 9,625 1 71 , fiR _
Staff, Super. Fund, £lOOO ( ‘ i ’ ODO
1938.. 13,478 7i p.c. =10,313 ( 7 „ 7 „ ft o ß7 <>
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ( 7<i,7dU
1939.. 13,550 8 p.c. =ll,OOO ) 7fi 9an 270 g
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO j 75,280 2708
1940.. !3,712 8 p.c. =ll,OOO ) 77 492 2923
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO )
1941.. 10,530 8 p.c. =ll,OOO 1 7fi R 22 o lg o
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO } 76,522 3183
1942.. 8,072 7 p.c. = 9,625 74,969 3048
Investment fluctuation reserve
taken in, £2523 .. .. 77,492
1948.. 7,367 6 p.c. = 8,250 76,609
1944.. . 9,832 6 „ „ 8,250 78,191
1945.. 15,441 7i „ ~ 10,312 83,320
1946.. 11,756 6 „ ~ 8,250 86,826
1947.. 9,317 6 „ „ 8,250 87,893
The alert and enterprising Union, which
set up in Melbourne 62 years ago, is now
second-biggest thing of its kind in Aus-
tralia. It enjoys strong connections in
pastoral circles, and there are branches at
Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville, Too-
woomba and Rockhampton, with
agencies at London and Glasgow. War,
together with the growth of Government
controls and maze of official complica-
tions that have followed in its wake, has
made plainer than ever the advantages of
the corporate over the private trustee, so
continued expansion of the business seems
assured.
The management’s most perplexing
problem is that costs are advancing at a
relatively faster rate than earnings. That
is because the co.’s moderate corpus and
other commission charges are anchored
by legislation, as they always have been,
while taxation, wages and other costs
have increased and controls have re-
pressed property values, retarded realisa-
tion of estates, forced down interest rates
and kept rents low. While factors affect-
ing earnings have been thus repressed,
costs, especially taxation, have not been
similarly restrained.
One result has been that net earnings
over the half-dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1946 averaged £10,499, com-
pared with an average of £13,098 for the
six years before that. And the position
seems likely to get worse before it be-
comes better. Indeed, the time has


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourns, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump ont
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two poundi
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
•nd you feel irritable, tired and weary
(knd the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
Hffi
I
mi
" ■- 'st
cyfyiote than,
H FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for Instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
f“7
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSIIIXIVAn
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
Typographers
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STER.EOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS *
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
fd
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We arc the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Goldsbrough Mort and Company
LIMITED
Speech by Chairman (Mr. K. M. Niall)
at Annual Meeting in Melbourne on 2 7 June, 194 7
THE PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
As you have already been advised, the Company’s
turnover for the past year is easily a record, mainly
because of the increased prices realised for wool and
stock. During the year we sold nearly 4,000,000
sheep, 240,000 cattle'and 110,000 pigs. Value of
land sold exceeded £1,750,000.
The pastoral industry is still suffering from the
effects of the 1944-45 drought—Australian sheep
totals having been reduced from 125,000,000 be-
fore the drought to 96,000,000 in 1946, This, of
course, has meant a reduced wool clip as well as
making it difficult to obtain breeders to replenish
flocks which in many districts were decimated by
drought.
One substantial benefit accruing from our wide-
spread organisation is that our up-to-date knowledge
of conditions throughout Australia enables us to
assist in the transfer of stock from less-favoured dis-
tricts to those where the season is relatively better.
Although the quantity of wool actually sold is
slightly down on the previous year, this is due to
a larger carry-forward, as our receipts were up by
33,000 Bales to 326,500 Bales. This total is still
much below receipts in the years immediately pre-
ceding the drought.
In spite of the high gross earnings, the net profit
was far from being a record, representing only 4 p.c.
on Shareholders’ Funds. Since 1940, expenses have
shown an increase nearly every year and the one
shown this year is serious, particularly as the trend
is still upward. If any substantial reduction in prices
occurs for our export commodities —mainly wool,
wheat and meat —then the whole Australian economy
will have to face painful readjustments.
TAXATION
As I have pointed out previously, the limitation
to a four-year period of the right to carry forward
losses has pressed very hardly on the pastoral in-
dustry—particularly in marginal areas where drought
conditions often extend over a number of years. The
Federal Government has recently extended the period
for carry-forward to seven years, and this will be
very helpful. Rates of tax, however, still remain
very high and make it extremely difficult to build up
reserves against season and price fluctuations.
While on this subject, I feel T should again direct
attention to the position of our shareholders whose
income from the Company bears double taxation- -
once in our hands at the high Company rate and
then in the hands of the shareholder. .
Shareholders will note that the Provision for De-
ferred Maintenance, made in 1944, is still untouched,
for the reason that we have been unable to obtain
labour and materials to undertake this vitally neces-
sary work. The capital assets of the Pastoral In-
dustry have deteriorated to a serious extent and,
unless conditions rapidly improve, the productive
capacity of the Industry must, over large areas, be
gravely affected. The question is one which requires
the best efforts of Government and Industry, for it
is the only sound basis upon which an improved
living standard can be built.
THE WOOL MARKET
After seven seasons of Appraisement under the
Wool Purchase Arrangement, the open auction system
was reverted to for the 1946-47 clip. The new
Empire disposal plan for the orderly marketing of
the clip is controlled by a Joint Organisation (com-
moqjy referred to by the trade as “J. 0.”) embracing
the Governments of United Kingdom, Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa. The principal instru-
mentality is known as the United Kingdom Wool
Disposals Ltd., and the plan is administered in the
Commonwealth by the Australian Wool Realization
Commission. The objects of the organisation are the
gradual disposal of accumulated stocks of the war
years, and the marketing of each season’s produc-
tion, at the same time maintaining a stable level of
values by a system of minimum floor reserves.
In addition to the current clip, good clearances
of surplus appraisement stocks were effected, the
quantity disposed of greatly exceeding expectations.
It is now likely that wools held by the Joint
Organization at the end of June will be approxi-
mately 4,500,000 bales, of which a little over
3,000,000 are Australian. At the conclusion of the
appraisement scheme, 6,890,000 bales of Australian
wool were held.
Viewed generally, the 1946-47 wool-selling season
was undoubtedly one of the most successful in the
history of the trade because of the acceptable level
of values ruling, the sustained demand, and the
almost complete clearances effected. Although, prior
to the opening of the season, an improvement on
appraisement rates was anticipated, the levels reached
on the resumption of sales in September of last
year exceeded expectations.
Throughout the season, the market for most de-
scriptions was a steadily rising one, values hardening
at each successive series, with a strong demand from
the United States of America, the Continent, Aus-
tralian Mills and Britain.
Values for most individual lines were well above
the minimum reserve valuations of the Australian
Wool Realization Commission, which organization
has been called upon to acquire only a limited quan-
tity, about 2 p.c., at their floor reserves. However,
quite a proportion of wools, medium to coarse
crossbreds (fleece and relative skirtings and many
faulty oddments) have been taken by the trade on
the basis of such reserves, and there is no doubt
that the operations of J.O. have helped to stabilise
values for those types for which commercial inquiry
is limited. However, as I stated at this time last
year, experience over an extended period will be
necessary to fully prove the value of the present
scheme. » ,
The Wool Contributory Charge of 5 p.c. made by
the Government this season seems likely to yield
in the vicinity of £5,000,000. This is much more
than can. be spent to advantage in the period, and
the Industry expects a reduction' in the rate next
season. Presumably, any accumulated surplus will
be used to assist woolgrowcrs.
With the resumption of sales, most countries en-
deavoured to obtain stocks of raw material to re-
plenish urgent clothing needs, and the resulting
strong wave of buying was the main factor in this
season’s improved rates. The well-maintained com-
petition right to the close is an indication that
demand is unsatisfied, and it is confidently expected
that similar conditions will continue to the new
season’s auctions. This, together with the fact that
the forthcoming Commonwealth production is not
likely to show any material increase, would indicate
that, provided nothing unforeseen occurs, prospects
for its satisfactory marketing are quite favourable.
I would like to stress, however, that the present
abnormal conditions may not provide a reliable guide
as to what may be reasonably expected in the years,
ahead, when the more pressing needs subside. A
reliable inquiry for our main product at consistently
remunerative values is preferable to high levels which
cannot be maintained.
World markets at present are apparently able to
absorb all the textile goods which can be produced
with the labour and machinery available. Amongst
them, wool retains its popularity as the most service-
able clothing medium. However, textiles produced
from competing fibres are coming more and more
into general use, and it is inadvisable, while the
present abnormal state of affairs exists, to be lulled
into any false sense of security and disregard the
ultimate competitive danger of these fibres.
In particular, we await with concern the outcome
of negotiations now being carried on at Geneva for
the regulation and reduction of world tariff barriers.
During the year we have obtained some exceptionally
high prices for clips comprising fine free wools—
suitable for the speciality trade. These can only be
grown •on a limited range of country and by com-
petent flock masters. The price margins between such
clips and the more average types are marked, and
these super wools have much to do with the popu-
larity of Australian wool overseas. This emphasises
the necessity, from the national viewpoint, of very
careful consideration being given before fine merino
country is cut up into relatively small blocks, the
holders of which, in many cases, have of necessity to
indulge in mixed types of subsistence farming and
cannot be expected to produce fine wools.
MERCHANDISE DEPARTMENT
We have been giving special attention to the de-
velopment of our activities as General Agents for the
Pastoral and Farming community, and are pleased to
inform you that arrangements have been made with
leading Manufacturing Companies for the direct
supply of station, farm and household requisites,
Engines, Pumps, Refrigerators, Spray Irrigation
Plants, Washing Machines, etc. Many of our service-
men are being trained as Sales and Servicing Staff
for this Department.
PESTS
Soil erosion has for some time been given much
prominence in Parliament and in the Press. Every-
one connected with the land will agree that this is a
very serious problem. But there are two others
serious problems affecting the Pastoral Industry to
which very little prominence has been given. I
refer to Noogoora Burr and the Dingo, but within
the limited scope of this speech I can give you only
a bare outline regarding them.
At present Noogoora Burr is mainly confined to
Queensland, but it is steadily spreading to Northern
New South Wales and has been evident in isolated
places as far south as the lower Murray River. The
whole of the Eastern watershed of Queensland frpm
Bowen south to the New South Wales border is
thickly infested. West of this watershed throughout
practically the whole of the best woolgrowing areas
of the State infestation, whilst not so intense, is
nevertheless of a serious nature. Reliable estimates
prepared by the Queensland Department of Lands in
conjunction with Woolbroking Firms disclose that
for the period 1941-46 an average of 8 p.c. of the
Queensland clip was affected. In the 1941-42 season
the estimated loss to growers was given as £237,000.
With a flush season in 1946-47 and high prices for
wool, thef estimated loss was considerably higher.
Methods of carbonising used for removing Bathurst
and other burrs ase not suitable for dealing with
Noogoora.
The pest has now attained such proportions that
cutting or pulling of the plant is out of the ques-
tion, and only some form of biological control can
hope to cope with it.
With regard to the Dingo—whilst it causes some
loss of stock in Victoria and South Australia, the
greatest losses occur in Western Australia and
Queensland. Before the war, especially in Western
Australia, native labour particularly was employed
dealing with this pest, a premium being paid for
scalps, but with the outbreak of war this form of
labour was conscripted and the pest rapidly multi-
plied during the war years; so much so, that in the
case of the country contiguous to the Hammersley
Range (W.A.) a - number of properties have been
- abandoned by their owners and the animal is spread-
ing further afield. Similarly, in the mountainous
areas of Queensland, properties have had to go out
of sheep altogether and run cattle, and even with
cattle the Dingo takes toll of the calves.
Admittedly, the C.S.I.R. and the different Govern-
ments concerned are alive to and endeavouring to
combat these pests, but, despite their efforts, both
are still steadily spreading.
arrived, and the trustee cos. have a strong
case, for a revision of the basis on which
their charges are levied.
The co. doesn’t broadcast the volume
of trusts on its books, but gross earnings
stepped up £15,720 last term;
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1925 .. .. £80,658 £59,905 74.1
1930 .. .. 104,567 83,534 79.8
1935 .. .. 91,538 77,483 84.6
1940 .. .. 107,743 -92,031 85.4 ,
1943 .. .. 116,554 103,553 88.8
1944 .. .. 116,615 108,027 88.3
1945 . . . . 131,355 105,408 80.2
1946 . , . . -135,928 124,172 91.3
1947 , . . . 151,648 142,331 93.8
* Excluding reserves for taxes until 1945.
Exes, (up £18,159) gobbled the gain and
£2439 besides. The co. was engaged in
litigation before the High Court during
the year, but it is not clear whether the
legal costs were included in exes, or
covered by provision for contingencies,
made before writing p. and 1. figures into
the published accounts. Reabsorption of
staff from the services, salary increases
and advancing prices for stationery and
everything else certainly bumped up out-
go. The allowance for taxation (£9317)
was £2773 lighter.
The net result (£9317) was 6.7 p.c.
on the £137,500 of paid capital,
compared with 8.5, 11.2, 7.1, 5.3,
5.8, 7.6 and 10 p.c. back to 4940. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was onty 4.1
p.c., which suggests that there is very
little profit in the trustee section of the
business these days. At the moment the
6 p.c. div. appears to be in no danger.
At end February capital and reserves,
together with a tax provision of £22,000
and £ll6 of unclaimed divs., were repre-
sented by freeholds £140,323, Govern
ment securities and cash £108,485,
debtors’ balances £1760.
The 50s. shares paid to 275. 6d. each —
of the other 225. 6d., £1 is callable only
in the event of liquidation —fetch 455. in
the market. The return at 455. is 3.6 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover is
455. Id.
City Mutual Life
•This one of Australia’s five big mutual
life offices reports an increase of over 30
p.c. in new business for the first half of
1947, compared with the then record
figure for corresponding half of 1946.
There are, of course, sound reasons why
expansion should be the order of the
day. One is the fall in the value of
money and rise in the cost of living,
which call for a larger volume of assur-
ance from all classes. Another is the
security aspect of life assurance ; there
is no better protection afforded the in-
dividual than a contract with a sound
life office.
The C.M.’s policy is one of consolida-
tion. Gross surplus earned last year was
£350,672 (up £90,218). Owing to differ-
ences in the amount brought forward,
total surplus available was £62,688
stronger at £359,394, which was dealt with
as follows:
1944. 1945. 1946.
Amount brought forward £161,423 £36,252 £8,722
Surplus earned .. 336,818 260,454 350,6/2
Total surplus .. £498,241 £296,706 £359,394
Bonuses policyholders.. 147,024 209,780 228,540
To actuarial reserves .. 314,965 “
To other reserves .. 78,204 110,000
Amount carried forward 36,252 8,722 20,854
An extra £18,760 was distributed among
policyholders in bonuses at the same
rates as for the previous year, when they
were slightly increased. The amount
added to general reserves (now £500,000)
was £lOO,OOO, or double the previous
year’s addition. Returns from this re-
serve, which belongs to policyholders
(there are no shareholders), are available
to swell earnings from the assurance
funds (£14,174,814). The remaining
£lO,OOO was used to write down the book
value of assets —this in additions to
£30,783 allowed for ordinary deprecia-
tion —thus creating an inner reserve. All
assets are reported “most conservatively
valued.”
Gold Fields Australian Development,
operating on the Westralian eastern and
northern goldfields, reports that at Moon-
light Wiluna the mine and plant are
being looked after by a caretaker under
supervision of Wiluna, Ltd. Mt. Char-
lotte is under exemption pending suffi-
cient labor and supplies becoming
available to resume operations. At
Mt. Ida operations are restricted
owing to lack of supplies and replace-
ment parts, particularly for power
plant and mill; crushing and develop-
ment results,are satisfactory. Option of
purchase of Porphyry Blocks has been
extended to September next. Ore from
the bottom workings average from 4dwt.
to 4idwt. a ton. A caretaker is now in
charge at Yellowdine. The co.’s field
engineer (A. J. Browne) recently inspected
properties in N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland, but saw nothing that
warranted further attention.
» * * ♦
Westralian Gold Notes: Linden, N.L.,
is investigating two areas, and will peg
both sites if sufficient inducement
offers.... .Dundas, N.L., reports that the
seventh call of 6d. has been paid on all
shares New Milano tributors recently
crushed 59 tons of ore and cyanided 200
tons of sands, but the yield was not
announced.... Gt. Boulder’s latest half-
yearly dividend of 3d. stg. a share,
less U.K. tax of 9s. in the £, is payable
on August 18 Hansel Mrnidy, N.L., is
sampling the old Morgan mine. If re-
sults justify taking an option it should
cheer up the present depressed market for
the co.’s scrip Evanston, N.L., says
no further applications will be accepted
for the current issue of contributing
shares,... .Mt. Malcolm, N.L., has ac-
quired shares in an English zinc-lead
concern. Co. is interested in the de-
velopment of the Hampton Plains area
near Coolgardie.... At Motley's Find a
rich patch has been struck in a mine
owned by a woman and worked by her
husband. The first cwt. of ore broken
is estimated to be worth £lOOO.


Wnm
MOTOR OIL
Flows freely at low temperatures
retains its “body” at high temperatures
to your correct
H.V.I. WINTER GRAPE
NEPTUNE OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
NO*4*24 (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
MARKETERS OF QUALITY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA SINCE 1909
SUNDRY SHOWS
"SALL-EE."
It was all right, something to be ex-
pected, back in the early ’twenties, at the
old Majesty’s (now cash-and-carry) or
any other of the addresses where J.C.W.
were making their Custer’s-last-stand in
trying to give Sydney living theatre;
Josie Melville as Sally in the musicomedy
draped about that sweetly sentimental
and sentimentalised, and amazingly clean,
foundling of the alley.
In that other Sydney Josie and all she
stood for and warbled about seemed to
belong. The chattering first-night audi-
ence flowing into the crowded entrance
and what they called the lounge. Floor-
sweeping evening frocks in all the colors.
V-shaped bare backs; distractingly
rounded white, or else sharp shoulder-
blades, as if those angels of the stalls and
the dress-circle were sprouting wings
already. With them, looking as if they
had been brought there by force, the male
accompaniment of black silk-fronted
dinner-jackets and white scarves.
The tittering excitement as the lights
went down and the heavy curtain billowed
out. The applause as it went up, to show
the chorus girls fresh from robbing the
rainbow, and their supporting phalanx
of white-powdered chorus boys dressed
for soup and fish. The lovelies flooding
their multicolor and their blonde and
brunette and ginger appeals, and all of
them their blended varied voices and deter-
mined gaiety, out across the footlights.
On first nights the “House Full” sign
would be proudly displayed to the passing
street. In cold fact, many of those present
would be deadheads —old theatricals,
friends and relations, politicians and other
parasites, and, of course, the scribes.
Elsewhere, at the old Cri., the Palace
or the Royal or one of the others—this
grim Sydney once had the brightness of
theatre on that lavish scale —there would
be something to be taken seriously. It
can be called “Drama,” ranging from
Allan Wilkie (rewarded eventually with
an 0.8. E.) giving Hamlet and ghost to
school classes under a barrage of bulls-
eyes, bananas and uproar, to some fruity
bellowdrama, some “On the Spot,” juicy
with ber-lood.
The critical standard for all that was
Art. Musicomedy was different. It was
Entertainment. What wasn’t seen—it was
Entertainment itself marking time; be-
tween the old and the new methods of
serving froth.
With that background you take the
wide leap to present Sydney—film houses
everywhere and the living stage virtually
a nullity. Hence astonishment at the in-
vitation to Mosman Town Hall, to see
the Mosman Musical Society present
“Sally.” Incredulous, you are told to
take a tram going to the royally named
Balmoral or the plebeian named Spit.
It’s a Balmoral; filling, as, go on
beyond the North Sydney heights, with
more dressy elegance and dinner-jacketed
posh than you have seen in quarter of
a century. When they all get off together
Instinct tells you to follow them, and
Instinct is right.
The queues reach from the glassed-in
booking cylinder across the pavement to
the street. In past them is the carpetted
place full of chatter and cigarette smoke.
The evening dresses sweep the carpet.
Vs of white backs or sprouting wings.
The support of black silk-fronted dinner-
jackets.
All go in and find their seats. The
lights go down, and the red curtain
billows as the stage-manager puts the
opening chorus in their places. To the
accompaniment of Herbert Wyatt’s en-
thusiastically-conducted music the curtain
goes up. Rows of girls frocked from the
rainbow and their dinner-dressed phalanx.
They burst into a song-and-dance. The
applause shakes this modernised Mosman
Town Hall’s architectural effects of clean
upright lines and overhead circles.
On stage there seem to be hundreds of
them, as lovely in that weaving floodlit
color as J.C.W. ever knew. Presently in
their midst Josie —no, according to the
programme it’s someone else, Betty
Parsons; that beautifully fresh, poor
little lass from the alley. A high tribute
to Josie that all the others are forgotten.
Who was Jimmy Spelvin (now John
Loder); Sascha (Bill Harland); Otis
Hooper (Marcell Wattell); Rosalind
Rafferty (Rhondda Baker); Mrs. Ten-
brovk (Shirley Reid); Pops Sherndortt
(John Unwin); the Grand Duke of
Chekogivinia (George Browne); the
Waiter (Arthur Gorman); the giddy
Admiral (Alan Moate); the giddier lass
with him (Zelma White); Richard
Farquhar (BenT’aylor)? Who were their
originals. Not, perhaps, that it matters.
What it all amounts to is that these
Mosman Musical Society players and
audience bring back something of an-
other Sydney. Whatever that Sydney was,
it had color and sparkle ; and the sparkle
even of gingerale bubbles seems better
than no sparkle at all.
Kubelik and Arrau.
Rafael Kubelik, who conducts with
his hair, was in fine fettle in his very-
well-balanced concert with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. Beethoven’s
“Egmont” Overture was a hirsute frenzy
and a rattling good performance. In* the
“Emperor” Concerto, which followed,
and in which Claudio Arrau was the
soloist, the Kubelik mane was not so
saltant and the baton, which up till then
had seemed no more than a super-
numerary, came into its own. Kubelik
here demonstrated that his showmanship
is backed up by deep musical knowledge.
Moreover, his conducting certainly
brought an excellent response from the
orchestra. This was apparent immedi-
ately the brief piano cadenza gave way
to the orchestral prelude which introduces
the two principal subjects. A tight con-
trol over his forces, with a beautiful
balance achieved —particularly where
only the woodwind accompanies the
soloist—marked this work, and Arrau’s
pianism, especially in his excursions to
his instrument’s upper reaches, was a
continual delight. In Dvorak’s two Pre-
ludes and two Slavonic Dances, Op. 7
and 8 of the 2nd Set, the lengthy Kubelik
locks again thrashed the atmosphere as
he danced to the conducting. But the
vigor, the infectious gaiety and beautiful
rhythm of these light Slavic works were
unmistakably brought out in their most
riotous colors.
In his recital a few days before the
Chilean pianist’s chief offerings were the
Mozart Rondo in D Major, K 485 and
the Brahms Variations on the Handel
Theme. This latter work, with its van
cathedral-like structure, calls for grea*
breadth of style, and that is just whai
Arrau has. The harmonic progressions,
the wonderful varieties of fantasy and
rhythmic ingenuity, the splendid
all these were given their just due in tones
which sparkled and tinkled like ice in a
glass. The Mozart work was majestic in
its grace and elegance.
Della Chiesa.
This attractive American seems to be
a natural singer. At her first Mel-
bourne Town -Hall concert she stood
so nonchalantly and let her breath
out so easily that it was almost
surprising to hear the invisible current of
air turn into the equally invisible line
of Peri’s “Invocation to Orpheus,” the
rich tone of Legrenzi’s “Che Fiero Cos-
tume’ ’or the pathos of thd “Parto, Parto”
aria of Mozart. When she reached the
upper limits of her compass, as in “La
Forza del Destine,” she threw her chin up
and let her throat throb much as a bird's
does, though there was no vibrato in the
singing. She has every shape of mouth
and throat available for the purposes of
every mood, from the sadness of “Le
Temp des Lilas” of Chausson—a lovely
item —to the giddy excitement of Hahn’s
“Fetes Galantes,” in which the whizzing
succession of short notes presented no
traffic problem to the singer.
"Born Yesterday."
This play, by Garson Kanin, opened in
New York last year and has been play-
ing to packed houses ever since. This
year it was produced in London by
Laurence Olivier at the Old Vic as his
first modern production there. Whether
it is the play or Olivier which has been
filling the theatre is a moot point,
although the latter seems the most likely
reason.
The story is nothing new. A “junk”
millionaire, Brock, made “without any
help from any one or anything—except
perhaps World War II,” comes to Wash-
ington to do a little lobbying. He has
a dumb ex-chorus girl living with him, a
drunken lawyer to assist him, a poor re-
lation “yes-man” as a servant and a
Senator whom he has bought. When he
finds himself moving in higher society
he decides his girl needs education, and
hires a newspaperman to educate her.
The man turns out to be a radical with
socialistic inclinations, and the education
is such a success that the girl leaves
Brock, taking the newspaperman and
most of the millionaire’s money, which
had been placed in her name to dodge
the income-tax people.
It’s not a particularly moving story,
and the characters are only “stock.” The
dialogue, however, is crisp, sharp and
very much in character. There is a good
deal of comedy in the play, though most
of the humor is directed at someone’s
ignorance or lack of education. The
moral seems to be education —“I want
everybody to be smart, as smart as they
can; a world full of ignorant people is
too dangerous to live in”—and socialism
—“down with the' capitalists, war-
profiteers in particular.”
The Brisbane production by Leon
Black for the Australian Theatre Guild
gave the play every chance with an ex-
cellent set and generally good acting by
the principals. Franklyn Evans as Brock
and Betty Ross as the ex-chorus girl both
gave better than good performances.
At the Films.
“Boomerang” (Sydney Plaza): Re-
markably good story of the repercus-
sions of the murder of a priest in a small
American town. Apprehension of the
murderer becomes a matter of political
urgency, and an all-in manhunt finally
brings in a suspect and entangles him in
a web of damning circumstantial evi-
dence. The State Attorney feels some mis-
givings as to the guilt of the accused
and, against the pressure of the police
and his political colleagues, clears the
man by tearing the circumstantial evi-
dence to ribbons, Dana Andrews as the
attorney, Lee Cobb as the chief of police
and Sam Levene as a reporter all turn
in excellent performances.
* * * *
“The Romance of Rosy Ridge"
(Sydney St. James): Thomas Mitchell as
a farmer, somewhere along the border
States of the American Civil War. As a
sideline he makes a study of the color
of men’s britches—if they are the grey
of the South, he fills their owner with
buck-wheat cakes, if they are Yankee
blue, he fills the pants themselves with
buckshot. He misses Van Johnson, who
favors blue strides, and for the deplor-
able slowness of his trigger-finger is
punished by seeing his daughter, Janet
Leigh, tucked under the Johnson arm
and steered toward the kirk.


C(
JUDGE COLT
PRESIDING”
In the turbulent cow towns of the early west “Judge Colt” was the only respected law, and a
quick trigger finger the only insurance against an.carly grave on “Boot Hill”. Forever associated
■with those roaring days is the famous Colt .45 single action revolver first patented in 1833.
From that time on, most Westerners carried one, and many a notorious figure of those days is
remembered for his skill in its use.
Two cardinal rulesfor good gun sport... a well kept weapon ... and
consistent sporting ammunition ammunition bearing the l.c.i. brand.
Cl
Series.
Colon'’l Samuel Colt
Repeating Pistol
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The very large percentage of Melbourne
racegoers whose special delight is watching the
jumpers in action turned out in force at
Flemington on Saturday for the running of
the Grand National Hurdle. The elements
co-operated to provide perfect cross-country
weather—cold, damp and bleak. Actually there
was no rain during the afternoon, but previous
showers had left the track heavy.
Ridden by Laurie Meenan, the South Aus-
tralian hurdler Eudunda started favorite at 11
to 2 and, lumping list., made short work of
the locals. The race was run to suit Eudunda
to perfection. Suggesting poor staff work,
the stablemates John Masefield and Latani cut
at each other in the lead nearly all the way,
with John Masefield appearing to go slightly
the better. Latani bungled an early hurdle
and thereafter showed some reluctance to
jump. Meanwhile, going easily and, with a
few lapses, jumping cleanly, Eudunda coasted
along a few lengths behind the leaders.
Approaching the last fence Eudunda started
to gather them in, and, rushing it slightly,
almost came to grief, but once in the clear he
raced away to a five-lengths win. John Mase-
field hung on pretty well for second money.
With Latani fading out, another South Aus-
tralian, Bobby Dazzler, rattled home to beat
Colebrook for the minor place.
Eudunda, a six-year-old gelding by Stand By
from React, only arrived in Melbourne a week
prior to the running of the National. At his
previous start he won the 12-furlongs Mt.
Gambier Cup carrying 9.5 on a heavy track,
which explains the ease with which he mowed
’em down once they got on the flat in the
National. Meenan rode an excellent race to
land his third National Hurdle; previously he’d
scored on Bay David and Cheery Jack.
In view of Eudunda’s very easy win, con-
nections of El Regis showed good judgment
in giving the big race a miss, to tackle in-
stead the poorer opposition and shorter dis-
tance of the Keilor Hurdle. Starting a warm
favorite and ridden by B. R. Smith, the Lyme
Regis gelding made a procession of the Keilor
from start to finish. Nicety issued a challenge
in the straight, but failed to make much im-
pression and First Aid took _ third place.
Stewards conducted a lengthy inquiry into First
Aid’s effort, but took no action.
v Bookmakers had their turn when it came to
the Kensington Steeple. Five of the runners
were equally well backed at round six and
seven to one, but not one of them finished
anywhere near the money. Setting the pace,
Illumination enjoyed a comfortable lead until
Formidable (C. Beckham) ranged up to him
at the last jump. Coming from farther back
Leicester Square set after Formidable in the
run to the judge, but was safely held. Five
lengths back Illumination narrowly shaded
Biblical for third.
The total distance of the six races decided
at Flemington was 85! furlongs and the total
running time was getting on for 20 minutes.
The only opportunity punters had to do their
cash the quick way was in the Myross Handi-
cap for two-year-olds, run up the straight six.
The sprint was won, and won well, by Viceroy,
who had to overcome the disadvantage of being
drawn No. 26 in a field of 27. With a furlong
to go the boomed Genetout colt Solvive was
well clear and a seeming winner, but Viceroy,
conceding Solvive 91b., finished too stoutly.
Cyclades was third. Viceroy, ridden by Badger,
is another of the Dhoti’s and his win brought
the earnings of Dhoti stock for this season
to somewhere round the £36,000 mark.
In the 10-furlongs Braybrook Handicap
Allied Power was chosen to make it three
in a row but his 9.1 proved too great a burden
on the heavy track. Ridden by D. Barclay,
Clatterbag, a son of Windbag, whose progeny
are noted for ability to handle heavy going,
landed the money, downing Gallant Gentleman
and Gayness.
Another favorite who didn’t seem to care
for the going was Black Law; he managed to
finish ahead of only one of the six runners in
the July Handicap. H. Hall, on the Enfield
mare Fungi, tried to steal the race and sneaked
away to lead by six or eight lengths at the
half-mile. Drama, however, went after the
leader, bridged the gap and won comfortably.
Fungi battled on well to hold second place in
front of Ellipsis.
* * * *
The Stradbroke-Brisbane Cup meeting a
month or so back suggested, and Saturday’s
Doomben Ten Thousand confirmed, that
southern visitors to the rich Brisbane winter
carnivals are paying dearly for their success
last year, when they carried off all the major
prizes. The handicapping of Attley at 10.7
was a severe example, and it is also worth
nothing that of the 24 starters in the rich
sprint only two local gallopers, Dowborough
(8.11) and Hedui (8.2) carried over Bst., against
which only three of the visitors, two of them
New Zealanders, had less than Bst. Queensland
horses with nothing on their backs finished
first, second and fourth. As noted here before,
Sydney’s very moderate current form seems to
have been much overrated both in Melbourne
and Brisbane.
The lightly-weighted locals hopped out
straight into the lead and simply ran the others
off their feet. France and Colleague, both
carrying 7.2, shared the lead early, followed
"A bit temperamental, ain't she?"
by Maa Leesh (7.13) and Felt Force (7.9).
France led clearly into the straight, followed
by Attley, given every chance by Breasley but
quite unable to produce any sort of a finish.
Coming at the end with light-footed brilliance
High Strung drew level and then slightly ahead
of France to win it by a neck. The grey
Hiraji proved himself the best of the Nizami
stock yet seen here by taking third money,
and Felt Force collected fourth prize. The
winner gets £6500, second £2OOO, third £lOOO
and fourth £5OO.
High Strung is a four-year-old entire by
The Buzzard from High Benia and was ridden
by N. McGrowdie. For the odd Doomben
distance of -seven furlongs less 93yds., High
Strung set a new record time of 1.17!. The
previous record was 1.18; established only a
couple of weeks back by Maa Leesh. High
Strung ran in that race and finished only
eighth.
* * * ♦
Formidable won the Kensington • Steeple so
well that he must have a good chance of
repeating the performance in next Saturday’s
National Steeple. The class will be a good
deal stronger, but Formidable is lightly
weighted. Tente and Quixotic may be the
hardest for him to beat.
* * * *
It looks like a double Queensland success
in the big Doomben events. Felt Force should
find the Cup distance much more to his liking
than last Saturday’s Ten Thousand journey.
Another Queenslander, The Diver, also looks
like being in the money, with Two Grand and
the very consistent Hiraji the most likely of
the visitors.
* * * *
As it was a particularly unpleasant day an
attendance Of 30,500 at Randwick on Saturday
was more than satisfactory. Apparently, too,
some people still have plenty of cash. Tote
turnover was £125,245 on a programme of six
races, and it would be safe to say that book-
makers, operating on two inter-State fixtures as
well as the local meeting, handled a good deal
more than the tote.
The jockeys’ premiership is, producing a
great finish, with W. Cook and J. Thompson
in front. G. Moore led till a broken leg
put him out of it. At Randwick Cook rode
one winner, taking him past Moore’s score
of 37!; Thompson rode two, bringing him
to 37. However, G. Fordyce is trailing close
enough to beat both of them.
Cook’s winner was Gay Monarch, who has
now won three successive Flying Handicaps
at Randwick, a good effort and thoroughly
earning him the spell he is now to have prior
to commencing an Epsom preparation.
It would be difficult to have Kiaree again
after his showing in the Pacific Handicap.
Everything was in his favor: a luxury weight,
for him, of 8.10, a suitable distance of 12
furlongs, a softish track and only six moderate
opponents; yet the best he could do was a poor
second. Debenture, with Mulley up, finished
all over them to win by nearly three lengths,
Kiaree just lasting it out to beat Fort Denison
for second money. Debenture’s time was 2.39;
last year on a rather firmer track Kiaree won
the event irr2.33|.
Only three of the runners were considered
to have a chance in the July Juvenile, Imperium,
April Pride and Cardinal Color starting equal
favorites gt 3 to 1. It was a great opportunity
for shrewd punters to pick up a little easy
money, especially as at one stage or another
7 to 2 was available about each of them. They
almost filled the places, Imperium (E. Fordyce)
running out the easiest of winners from April
Pride and Bikini, with Cardinal Color fourth.
* * * $
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Two-year-old; Altarian, 1; Airs and Graces,
2; Rosewell, 3. Flying; Vermeil, 1; Petulance,
2; Tahmoor, 3. Park Handicap: Questing, 1;
Codicil, 2; Marlume, 3. Welter: Agile, 1;
Man o’ War, 2; Spear Patrol, 3.
* * * *
In the V.F.L. on Saturday Footscray
suddenly stopped getting beaten and held
St. Kilda to a 5.14-6.8 draw, thus pre-
venting the hopeful “Saints” from
registering their second win of the sea-
son. Match of the day was the Carlton-
Melbourne clash at M.C.G., the all-
conquering “Blues” just managing to
win, 10.9-9.10. Essendon was untroubled
by “Sowth,” 11.17-8,14; Richmond,
12.11, swamped North Melbourne, 4.10;
Fitzroy toppled Collingwood, 9.11-7.6;
and the improving Geelong side defeated
Hawthorn 16.21-12.11,
* * * *
Exit from S.A. club football John
Cockburn, after 14 years and 167 games.
He won the Magarey Medal, S.A.’s
highest honor, and another year was
runner-up for it. Stationed in Melbourne
during the war, he played there for
Essendon.
* * * *
Manly, Sydney Rugby Union competi-
tion leaders, beat Gordon 20 to 6 in a
very poor game. Eastern Suburbs beat
Parramatta 19-6; Drummoyne beat
Wests 17-9* Des Bannon being outstand-
ing in a mediocre game; Randwick beat
Eastwood 17-6, Furness winning 33
scrums to eight; University, after a bril-
liant opening, went down to St. George
25-14; and Northern Suburbs beat a
Victorian team, Footscray, 51-14.
» ♦ * *
The British golf Open went to an out-
sider, Fred Daly, a professional from
Ireland. Australian Von Nida, English
Henry Cotton and Arthur Lees were
level with Daly starting the last round,
but all three had 76’s, begob, and the
bhoy from Erin shot a 72 to become the
first of his race to win the British title.
* * * *
Local tennis-writers ranged from joy-
ful hysteria to mournful wailings during
the week as cables from Wimbledon fol-
lowed the fate of the Australians there.
It was worse on the people
happening to tune in wondered whether
it was tennis or a Foreign Ministers’
conference that was being described. By
Monday the excitement had simmered
down, when it seemed that the follow-
ing had ensued; —
Singles: Kramer (U.S.A.) beat Brown
(U.S.A.). Doubles: semi-final, Sidwell
(Aust.) and Mottram (Brit.) beat Bromwich
and Pails (Aust.); final, Kramer and Falken-
burg (U.S.A.) beat Sidwell and Mottram.
In the mixed doubles final Long and Mrs.
Bolton (Aust.) were beaten by Bromwich
(Aust.) and Miss Brough (U.S.A.).
* * * *
“Math”; The M.C.C. is sensibly trying
out some new bowlers for future require-
ments. In the first' Test v. S. Africa
Hollies, Martin and Cook were brought
into the attack ; in the second match these
were dropped for Pope and Wright; for
the third Test Cranston (Lancashire) and
Gladwin (Derbyshire), both of whom
have done well in English cricket this
season, have been given a chance in place
of Pope and Bedser, and in the first
innings badly troubled the S. Africans.
* ” * * *
Alec Buxton (11,5!) used every ounce
of his extra weight in outpointing Tommy
Ward (10.12) at Leichhardt. Solid left
swings won Buxton the first three rounds,
and another left floored Ward for “three”
in round four. Ward surprisingly
attacked from then on, and outboxed
Buxton to the end of the ninth, but he
was weak over the last bit. It was just
old Leichhardt custom that the decision
in Buxton’s favor was vociferously hooted.
* * * *
A couple of game little men, Mickey
Carr (8.8) and Davey Robinson (8.6!),
gave the Melbourne Stadium crowd a
clinking scrap for their money. Better
boxing won it for Carr, after he’d been
within a fraction of being knocked out
in round seven. " Up at “nine,” he
weathered some heavy punishment, and
was fighting stronger the further it went.


VMM 11
i
AIDS FOR
THE MAN ON THE LAND
d
CENTURY AGO
the implements and
tools with which our
pastoralists and
farmers worked were simple things,
though well and truly made.
Then came a period of mechanised
development that gave us the Reaper
and Binder, the Multiple-furnSw Plough,
the Milking Machine and a host of
other labour-saving tools.
Now come the giant earth-moving
machines with which one man can do
the work of many; tools with which a
man can build in an hour what he has
denied himself for years because of the
labour involved; tools to stir the
imagination and widen all our horizons.
Down the years this Bank has pro-
vided Credit for its customers desiring
to equip themselves with aids to greater
production at lower costs. In its Head
Office and more than 300 Branches' it
stands ready to do the same today.
Funds are available for competent men
anxious to develop their enterprises,
THE
COMMERCE BANKING COMPANY
Of SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK Of VICTORIA LIB.
m
r/
m
m
mm
m
ri
4isr
m
m
?u.
the
mmmida
SULATED HOUSE
THINK how pleasant it would be on a cold rainy winter's night to open the
front door of your home and enter a cosy and warm room—WITH ONLY
A MINIMUM OF FUEL BEING USED.
8.1. Slagwool keeps cold out and heat in, resulting in a saving of at leasi
one-third on fuel costs. 8.1. Slagwool is inexpensive and easy to install,
CEILINGS ...
Slagwool in granulated form over ceilings prevents heat leakage,
eliminates condensation and drip-stained ceilings.
WALLS ...
Slagwool in batts, or loose, is easy to install during construction. In
granulated form may be poured into side walls it house is already built.
SLAGWOOL is fireproof, reduces sound transmission, keeps homes warm in
winter, cool in summer. .
Surveys and estimates made without obligation
o D
insulation
PTY.
LTD.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM, Shell House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St., Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER .DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Convertibility of Sterling
After July 15 Australia, and all other
countries trading with Britain, will be
entitled to convert the proceeds of their
current transactions into dollars, or any
other currency. This is in compliance
with Article 8 of the recent Washington
Loan Agreement. Owing to Britain’s
attenuated dollar resources, however,
several important questions arise. These
include; (1) Whether a country which
already has a substantial amount of dollar
credits, or other resources readily convert-
ible into dollars, will be entitled to de-
mand immediate conversion of current
sterling transactions ; (2) whether sterling
balances are to be convertible as and when
they arise, or whether only the net export
surplus accumulated over a period will
become convertible ; and (3) if conver-
sion applies to the net surplus over a
period, what is that period to be.
No official pronouncement on these
questions has yet been made in Australia.
As for the first, there is no reason to
suppose that any discrimination will be
made between those countries which hap-
pen to have dollars and those which have
not. Concerning the second question, it
is reasonable to assume that it is the net
export surplus over a period that will
count. Trade between Britain and other
countries is not all one way. In some
instances Britain will have substantial net
sums due to be paid to her on current
transactions. And the seasonal char-
acter of trade will have to be taken into
account. A country to which Britain
might be heavily indebted in one month
may become her debtor for a large
amount in another. The open question
is the 'third one, as to how the time
factor will operate—that is, at what inter-
vals is the “net” to be calculated and
what interim arrangements, if any, are
to be made. This is a matter for agree-
ment between Governments according to
the circumstances of each case.
In addition to whatever net sterling
(excess of exports over imports) might
become available for conversion in the
future, there will be a further amount of
old sterling to bfe released in pursuance
of Article 10 of the Loan Agreement—
the scaling down of sterling balances
accumulated during the war was discussed
in these columns on 2/7/’47. When
all these matters are settled, sterling will
become convertible .over. almost the
whole of the non-sterling world, and,
presumably, the Empire dollar pool
arrangement, which has continued since
war began, will end. The underlying idea
is to get sterling more freely into use as
an international currency. Meanwhile,
it is up to the Dominions, and other
members of the sterling area, to co-
operate by not taking undue advantage
of the convertibility right;
Certainly Australia should not be con-
strained to do so by stress of circum-
stances. For the 11 months to end May
last its favorable net trade balance with
Britain was £556.7 millions, thanks
largely to a strong demand, good clear-
ances and high prices for wool, meat,
wheat, metals and dairy produce. Over
the same period, our net favorable trade
balance with U.S. was approx. £55.6
millions, mainly on account of wool. Still,
it is unlikely that the future supply of
dollars will be equal to the demand for
them.
Trend of Savings
The recent trend in savings-bank de-
posits reflects the change from infla-
tionary war-time to less but still infla-
tionary peace-time conditions. The dif-
ference lies in the fact that war-time
inflation was brought about mainly by
heavy Government expenditure on de-
fence account —it included practically
everything in the Budget, and was
financed largely by central-bank credit —
whereas the inflation that has occurred
since, and is still occurring, is due to in-
dustrial causes, such as wage lifts and
failure to achieve “full” production,
owing to strikes, go-slow, reduction of
working hours and other forms of re-
tardation.
From August, 1939, to August, 1946,
total savings-bank deposits in the Com-
monwealth rocketed from £244.9 millions
to a peak of £666.8 millions. From this
point the figure receded steadily until
May last, when there was a slight in-
crease. The overall shrinkage for the
nine months was £16.6 millions. This has
been partly offset by a net growth of
£3.4 millions in other small savings in
the form of savings certificates. The
month-by-month movements have been
as follows;
Savings Savings
Bank Deposits. Certificates.
£ mil. £ mil.
1946 August .. 666.8 56.0
September .; 664.8 56.4
October .. 661.9 56.8
November .. 658.2 57.1
December .. 653.8 57.6
1947 — January .. 652.8 58.1
February .. 652.4 58.6
March .. 650.8 , 59.0
April .. .. 650.0 59.4
May .. .. 650.2
While the shrinkage might be due
to unwillingness rather than inability to
save, it appears to be the result chiefly
of deferred spending, accelerated by de-
mobilisation of the services, on personal
capital account (clothing, furnishings,
houses, etc.), which of necessity was
allowed to run dowg during the war
years, and to relaxation of rationing and
the rise in prices. Once people become
aware of the one-way character of in-
flationary price rises they tend to
accelerate their current purchases and
reduce their rate of saving. And the rise
in prices has tended to mop up savings-
bank deposits in greater proportion than
the rise in the physical volume of pur-
chases.
As against the down-turn in savings-
bank deposits, trading-bank deposits have
begun to climb, owing partly to transfer
of the money when spent to traders’
accounts and partly to the high level of
export incomes. The most pleasing
feature of trading-bank figures is that
advances are now increasing at a faster
rate than deposits. For the most part,
this is the result of a growing demand
for accommodation from all classes of
trade and industry.
There seems to have been a premature
leakage of information regarding the
offer by Austin Motor Co. (of England)
to buy a controlling interest in Ruskin
Motor Bodies ; and the information has
proved quite valuable. Two days before
the offer was made formally, shares in
Allied Motor Interests, holder of all the
ord. capital in Ruskin, jumped from
14s. 6d. to 16s. 3d. in Melbourne, where
they have official listing. Support came
from Sydney, and 2600 shares are known
to have changed hands. Directors then
had the scrip withdrawn from quotation
to protect holders against further leak-
ages. Now that Austin’s terms have
been published it’s clear that buyers at
16s. 3d. will profit if the negotiations go
through. Austin is prepared to pay 20s.
each for the 20,000 preferred \ords.
(Austin’s distributing co. in Australia
already has the option to buy them at
this price); and will pay 40s. each for
all 86,010 ords., or alternatively for
34,000 of them (sufficient for a control-
ling interest). Thus Austin is offering
£192,020 for all Ruskin’s ord. capital.
The market has evaluated this capital at
about £158,890 —on the basis of the
boosted price of 16s. 3d. for each of the
153,908 shares in Allied Motor Interests
(this co. has other investments worjh
£6OOO at current prices and had liabilities
amounting to £39,845 in last balance-
sheet figures). Actual profit taken by
the recent buyers will depend on the num-
ber of ords. sold to Austin.
* * *
Prices, shortages and costs are triple
problems for Maoriland distributing con-
cerns today. Chairman A. D. Bell, of the
Farmers’ Trading Co., Auckland, said his
organisation was combing Britain and the
Continent for goods. America cpuld meet
the demand, but dollars are a barrier.
“Present-day fantastic prices must drop,’’
said chairman R. J. Sims, of Entrican,
Sims and Co., Ltd., 60-year-old Auckland
business, but he thought the peak hadn’t
been reached yet. Companies might have
to face another £1 a week for wages if
the Labor Federation wins out with its
Arbitration Court claim. Purchasing
power will rise further, but production is
still dropping. This adds up to heavier
inflation pressure than ever before in
Maoriland.


THE < ~/yt€V KB MODEL
INTERNATIONAL
OMIT
Mi
INTERNATIONAL
m
NOW come new ‘KB’ Models—light duty, medium-duty,
and heavy-duty with many features and improve-
ments . . . new goals in engineering, research, and design
. new styling, with trim flowing lines accented by gleam-
ing chrome. And that means rugged International stamina,
long, trouble-free life, and ease and economy of operation
in greater abundance than ever before. In the complete
line is the right truck for every job. Ask for full in-
Ml
formation regarding the new ‘KB’ Internationals at
our branch house showrooms or from any of our
metropolitan distributors or country local dealers.
m
INTERNATIONAL. HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.. (iNC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. FACTORY: GEELONG.
«MTEWNATICNA». eTRiICKS
MTI47-12
iTEA
FOR THE
WORKERS
f
Si
H
What factors
govern the
pre-p la ti n in a
of
distribution ?
'JpHE problem which confronts most
managements who are considering
a tea service for their employees is not so much the actual
provision of the tea, but the distribution of it. Whether
there are a few or many workers, certain factors must be
borne in mind, and it is wiser to face these before any
further step is taken and to cover them satisfactorily
rather than to wait for snags to develop. For instance,
have you considered the points raised below ?
By service to all types of industry and commercial enter-
prises during the exacting years of war, The Tea Bureau
is conversant with most existing problems and able to
give sound advice in dealing with those that may be
peculiar to any individual case. That experience aixl
advice will be given freely, and without cost, whether
you are installing a new tea service or adapting an
existing one.
A brochure giving details of the advisory service offered
by The Tea Bureau will be sent free on request.
f
FACTORY LAYOUT
Is your factory single or multi-
storied? Are there lifts, ramps, or
steps to the various floors? Are there
gangways to convenient points? How
arc you going to raise steam?
o
TIMES AND LENGTH
OF BREAK
Do your employees work In
shifts? Have they set rest-
pauses or meal-times? Are
there any "customs of the
trade"? How do the Factory
Regulations affect the service?
TOTAL LABOUR FORCE
This isn’t just a count of heads, but —where are those
people at Tea-Zero hour? Arc there any or many
continuous process hands? Which is the more con-
venient for your canteen, and more economical for you
—to take the tea to the*workers, or to let the workers
come to the tea?
FINANCE.
Is It better to let your employees pay
the full cost of the tea, or arc you going to help by
setting aside a charge against the tea service? Have
you considered this
from "the psycho*
logical angle”? What
is the welfare-value
of the enterprise, and
do you propose to
make the most of
this?
df
THE TEA BUREAU
If you have any Tea ptohlctns, wvite ot 9 phone The Tea Butcclu, (Service Dept») f
31 Macquarie Place, Sydney (Tel. 8W6692) and 47 St., Melb, (Tel. C. 1 100)
■
Sugar and Geneva Again
At C.S.R.’s annual roll-up in Sydney
last month chairman E. R. Knox made
these pertinent remarks concerning the
International Trade Organisation, now
hammering out a charter for itself at
Geneva, and the Australian sugar in-
dustry :
This draft charter is causing very great
concern to ail sections of the Australian
sugar industry—and no doubt to other
industries also. It does not deal with or
mention particular products but lays down
comprehensive rules and principles for in-
ternational trade and these will be binding
if accepted by the nations.
The intention and effect of the general
principles set out in the charter as it
emerged from the London conference would
gravely threaten and probably remove now
or alter a transition period each of the
four main economic bases of the Australian
raw-sugar industry, viz.:
(1) The embargo on the importation of
foreign sugar; this has provided protection
that was and will be essential for the
Australian industry as the only large-scale
cane-sugar industry in the world operated
entirely by white labor.
(2) The placing of surplus sugar on export
markets that return a price lower than that
received for sugar consumed in Australia.
(3) Empire preference on sugar shipped
to the United Kingdom and Canada.
(4) The export quota of 400,000 tons of
sugar assured to Australia under the 1937
International Sugar Agreement.
Loss of the protection in Australia would
deprive the industry of its most stable and
important market for about half its normal
production; and even if protection of the
home market is retained, loss of the ex-
port markets would reduce the industry to
about half its normal size.
With the U.S. Congress in a mood to
raise rather than lower American tariffs
—though the wool-tariff measure has
apparently been snuffed out —Empire
preferences appear to be in little,
if any, real danger. The question
of their modification will depend
upon what others can offer as a
quid pro quo. The position would look
less like a Mad Hatter’s tea-party if Aus-
fralian politicians ceased ranting about
what U.S. does inside its own borders
and did something to curb their own
Government’s expenditure, ease taxation
and enable local traders to reduce costs.
This at least would be a practical con-
tribution* toward Australia modifying
somfe of her own tariffs.
So far as sugar is concerned, it was
pointed out in these columns in May last
that Australia should agree to any pro-
posed modification of her rights in
Empire markets only if her competitors
operate with a labor force enjoying
standards of living comparable with our
own.
Never was there more barefaced ex-
ploitation by organised labor than the
salvage and repair of the Wanganella
(9567 tons gross), which grounded on Bar-
rett’s Reef at the entrance to Wellington
Harbor on Jan. 19 last —her first peace-
time run across the Tasman after having
served as a hospital ship during the war.
It cost about £70,000 for salvage work
alone. And Maoriland’s Socialist Gov-
ernment let the crew, which had adopted
highwayman’s tactics when the ship
looked as if she might become a total loss,
get away with “danger” money to the
tune of 18s. an hour. In smooth seas,
with tugs and escorts standing by and
Wellington’s coastline alongside, the
WanganeUa’s decks and cabins were as
safe as and more comfortable than a base
camp. Then the repairers (William Cable
and Co.) were unwilling to quote a fixed
contract price, owing to the fractious state
of labor and uncertainty as to the cost of
materials. On a cost -plus basis, with
Government restriction as to profit, the
ceiling for repairs was put at £325,000,
or over 65 p.c. of total original cost of
the vessel (£520,000) in 1929. About 513
tons of fabricated material was needed for
the work, and an order was promptly
placed in Britain, but was later cancelled,
owing to labor troubles there. Mean-
while, temporary repairs were held up
owing to a dispute between the unions
and the repairers concerning wages. At
time of stranding the Wanganella was
stated to be worth £1,500,000.
* * * *
The Westcott Hazell Engineering and
Steel Co.’s issue of 30,000 5 p.c. cumulative
prefs. of £1 at par was oversubscribed
in June. Nominal capital of £lOO,OOO
has thus been fully issued—in 60,000
ords., 10,000 7 p.c. first prefs. and 30,000
5 p.c. second prefs., all of £l. Co.
was formed as a proprietary in 1936
to take over the steel department
of Westcott Hazell ffnd Co., Ltd. It
operates in all States except Queensland
and W.A., and merchandises a wide range
of engineering supplies, including alloy
and tool steels, machine tools, precision
instruments and gauges, and packing
machinery. It recently obtained listing
as a public co. both in Sydney and Mel-
bourne after placing a parcel of shares
with the public at 275. 6d. each. At the
same time 20,000 ords. were issued
at par to existing shareholders.
Profit for the year 1946, after allowing
for pref. divs., represents more than 13
p.c. on capital according to figures re-
leased by the directors. They expect to
declare an ordinary div. of 7 p.c. Net
tangible backing for the ords. is 21s.
sd. each, and for the prefs. 525.
Directors have a diversified programme
in mind for the co. A recently formed
subsidiary, Turco (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., will
manufacture, under American licence, a
full range of industrial surface cleaning
compounds ; these will have' application
in aviation, building, plating and auto-
mobile industries. Another subsidiary is
being formed to make precision instru-
ments under arrangement with the Shef-
field Corporation of U.S.A. Co. has also
obtained the franchise for distribution of
tungsten carbides and welding materials
which are expected to play an important
part in new engineering processes.
* * * . *
“E.C.F.”: Many manufacturers and the
Price Tribunal in Maoriland have reached
a deadlock over prices, and some produc-
tion has come almost to a standstill. Dis-
gusted with chiselling of profit margins,
manufacturers declare they won’t con-
tinue to make-up materials in sections
of the softgoods trade. Maoriland
is nearly barren of men’s neglig6
shirts with detachable collars, yet there
are hundreds of thousands of yards of
attractive shirting in bulk stores. Factory
staffs meanwhile produce lines that show
a better margin. Other lines nearly off
the market have been blankets, flannels,
knitting and baby wool, winter under-
wear, woollen pullovers and cardigans,
woollen piece goods and working socks.
A Government subsidy granted in June
has started supplies moving again.
Orders for men’s sports trousers and
suits are months ahead of supplies, and
men are asking why they have more
than their share of scarcities. Rising
costs that squeeze manufacturers against
price ceilings and sluggish price revision
are the main answers.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: George, an old-age pensioner,
lived alone in a slab hut on the river
bend. He had acquired about half a
dozen sheep, which he grazed mostly
along the roadside and by the river bank,
his own small holding carrying little else
but bracken and blackberry. Then one
sale day he came into the township drov-
ing two elderly ewes. Late that afternoon
the mailman, who had passed him in the
morning, met him again as the old bloke
was making back to his shack, this
time droving four sheep. The mail-
man’s eyebrows shot up. “I thought
you were going to sell them sheep
o’ yours because feed was gettin’ a bit
scarce, George,” he said. “So I was,”
George replied slowly. “But, y’ see, when
I sees prices is down I thought I’d
turn it into a seller’s market be buyin’
up. But it weren’t no good. Y’ know,
Jim,” he went on, deep conviction in his
voice, “I sometimes think them smarties
rig the market. Anyway, they’ll get a
shock when prices is up and I unload all
me flock.” #
“8.G.5.”: Tell “Zake” (B. 18/6/;47)
“jackeroo” comes from the aboriginal
name of the so-called black magpie,
“chakeroo.” Originally applied to
Lutheran missionaries in Queensland
it was adopted as an apt appellation for
the average “colonial experiencer.” I
first heard it in N.S.W. in the ’eighties.
No mention of it will be found in any of
our early authors, and it was apparently
unknown even to Rolf Boldrewood. And
I don’t think the old sea term “Johnny
Raw” was ever in general use in the
bush. “Newchum” was universal till
early in the century, when “pommy”
partly displaced it.
“M. Turlutu”: Many Australians re-
gard “brumby” as a bit of dinkum
Aussie vernacular with an aboriginal de-
rivation. As a matter of etymological
fact it is corrupt English for “brum
beast,” deriving from Brummagem. A
diary kept by my then newchum
grandfather in 1849 mentions the
word as one of the queer travesties of
the English language used by the
“colonials,” and the foregoing as its
derivation given to him by an old ex-
convict, B.A. Oxon, who had been sent
out for forgery just after the Rum Re-
bellion. According to the same infor-
mant it was in common use amongst
N.S.W. country-dwellers during the
1830’s and probably earlier.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: For the most
widely-distributed bird south of Capri-
corn, and in all environments, my vote
goes to the old spurwing plover. Along
the Darling River I’ve seen them beside
the stockroute from Bourke to Went-
worth ; I’ve watched their antics on the
plains around Naracoorte (S.A.), in the
Midlands of Tassie, even in suburban
parklands and on the Lower Yarra flats
in Melbourne; I’ve heard their alarm
calls on every beach from Mallacoota
bar around to Geraldton (W.A.). But
always the birds have been in pairs and
never more than a few pairs in an im-
mediate vicinity. However, at Buchan
in East Gippsland the other day, for
some unaccountable reason, the spur-
wings were there in droves of fifties and
eighties. The locals could throw no light
on the reason for the mass-meetings.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Jimmy and Ted were
toiling on Snowball Creek, just out of
Gundagai, and keeping themselves. One
night Jimmy was stuck for something to
boil the spuds in, so he rooted round in
the shed and found a square gallon tin,
sloshed it out with water and chucked
the spuds in. An hour later both were
clasping their stomachs and howling
for help. The boss came up, heard their
complaint, inspected the tin and found
that it had formerly contained a liquid
sheep dip. He wanted to rush them into
town. “What’s the good o’ both goin’?”
wailed Ted. “Take Jimmy, boss, an’
whatever the doc. orders get two bottles.”
The boss thought both should go.
“Where’s the sense in it?” they moaned,
both writhing. “We both got the same
complaint, ain’t we? What do y’ want
“Hurry up, there—you've got the elephants to shampoo yet."
t’ spend two ten-an’-sixpences for when
one’ll do!” There wasn’t time for
further argument, so the boss threw
Jimmy into the car and raced into town,
where he was diagnosed as a mild case of
arsenic poisoning and a prescription was
written. The boss had a job convincing
the chemist of the need for a double-
issue of the dope, but he got it and took
the patient home to his fellow-sufferer.
After which, as he said, “I went in and
downed half a bottle of brandy to steady
me nerves. I’d ha’ given the silly coots
the sack if there’d been time t’ argue
about it.”
* * * *
“Naturala”: The balance of Nature
constantly tends to adjust itself. At
present the south-west of W.A. is suffering
alarm from the invasion of the Argentine
ant. And the creature really is terrifying
in its possibilities. Left unchecked it
rapidly multiplies into millions, inhabiting
pockets of nests that may coyer a dozen
square feet of soil. As a miner it shifts pro-
digious quantities of earth, and is capable
of undermining cement paths and floors,
brick walls and chimneys to the extent of
ultimately causing all to collapse. As a
forager it will strip a garden bed clean
unless the newly-sown seed is quickly
covered. But now it looks as if it might
prove useful against the fruit-fly. To
fulfil its life-cycle the maggot must
emerge from the destroyed fruit and bury
in the soil. I’ve watched processions of
the Argentinians carrying those maggots
to their nests.
# * * *
“Betcha”: If I hadn’t struck that par-
ticular fox on my sheep rounds the other
day, I’d probably have gone on believing
the ginger bloke to be a craven that
fights only as a last resource. When first
spotted he was trying conclusions with a
big crossbred ewe, aided and abetted by
several of her kind, and, suspecting an
ulterior motive, I pulled up. Soon dis-
covered his objective was the head and
shoulders of a young lamb, which evi-
dently he had been eating when routed by
the woollies. His rushing attacks and
strategic withdrawals had brought him
almost within reach of his prize, when
he caught sight of my sheep dog some
distance away. Wheeling, he charged the
surprised mong, who sheered off in a
circle, sparring for time and opportunity.
The fox followed up. Then, as my
second dog appeared, Johnny raced to
meet him, challenging allcomers with
eager impartiality. Thereafter, his vicious
advances were divided, and his tactics
bad both bluffed, so that only the arrival
of an old fox dog prevented his getting
away with it.
* * * *
“Jugiong Jim”: Anyone seeking evi-
dence of what can be done with our
native timbers should have a look inside
the Gundagai (N.S.W.) court house.
Probably one of the oldest in the State,
its interior was gutted by fire about 1942,
the old stone walls withstanding the
blaze. Repaired, its interior woodwork
consists almost entirely of mountain ash,
trimmed and polished so that the visitor
eyes it and wonders what beautiful im-
ported timber the builder got hold of.
The color of Queensland maple, the
bench, jury-box, witness-box, press- and
Bar-tables and public seats have a soft,
bright glow that makes the place a distinct
contrast to the usual gloom of the average
courthouse.
* *■ * * ~
“M.U.R.”; My most uncomfortable
ride (B. 25/6/’47) was aboard a push-
bike. Twelve miles out of Mildura I
founjd a beautiful ripe water-melon on
a vine that had run through a fence on
to the road. Getting that thing home
on the bike was a nightmare. It wouldn’t
sit on the handles ; carrying it on a mov-
ing hip was maddening; it slid and
bobbed from under one arm and when
I tried to sling it with handkerchief and
belt it evinced an insane desire to jump
to the ground when it wasn’t thumping
me in the small of the back. However, I
got it home and, flushed with triumph,
invited the family to the feast. It was a
pie-melon.
* • • •
“Mat’s Mate”: Night caught us
tramping across the dreary stretch of road
from Breadalbane to Goulburn (N.S.W.)
in a bitter wind. There was no shelter
and we weren’t game to chance freezing in
our nap under the wire fence, so pushed
doggedly on, growing steadily colder and
more miserable as the slow miles passed.
.After a couple of years or so I heard
Mat grunt and looked up to see a light
ahead. When we got near the light got
up and hurried away. We stopped. So
did the light. We made towards it. It
moved on. All that I’d ever heard of
will-o’-the-wisps and banshees and so
forth came into my head and I wanted to
let it go. “No ruddy fear,” chattered
Mat. “Y’ can’t have a light without
warmth an’ we’ll run the so-and-so down
if it takes all night.” He let out a yell.
The light paused, appeared to consider,
then yelled back. This time it waited
for us —a hurricane lamp in the hand of
a trapper on his rounds. Ten minutes
later we were roasting before a big fire
in a house. “Where y’ makin’ for?
asked our host. Mat cocked an ear to
the wind whistling outside, shuddered
and said “Right out t’ Marble Bar,
mate ; they tell me it’s never under a
hundred out there.”
<• m * *
“Frank Mauri”: Having as a Senior
Medical Assistant in New Guinea ad-
ministered quite 50,000 intravenous in-
jections for yaws, I should like to know
whether “Bufo” or “S.’s” A.M.C. corporal
ever tried to withdraw blood from human
tissue with a hypodermic syringe? Un-
less the needle penetrates the lumen of a
vein only a tiny drop will be secured.
Capillary circulation is much too small.
Ask any doctor who has tried to carry
out an intravenous injection into a deep
vein where the test of successful penetra-
tion is the free flow of blood into the
syringe.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Stimulated by the
example of a Perth columnist who went
naturalist long enough to marvel at the
stamina of a frog which, domiciled in
a car, managed to subsist solely on its
natural diet of flies and other insects
for a month, a flapper in my compart-
ment of a suburban train waxed lyrical
about a bird viewed from the train
window. It was black and white all
over, you know, but she wasn’t quite
sure of its classification. No-o-o, it
wasn’t a shag—they’ve got , webbed feet,
haven’t they?—and it wouldn’t be a
magpie because some other birds that
looked like magpies were chasing it. A
heron? No, although she wasn’t sure
what a heron looked like. And it was
too big for a willie-wagtail. Now, I’m
something of a nature-lover myself, and I
couldn’t remain silent in that company,
so I suggested, diffidently, “Is it a Ply-
mouth Rock?” That stumped them, but
they admitted the possibility, provided
that bird was black and white. Then the
mudlark flew off at a tangent and a
party of Australians journeyed on to
their city jobs refreshed from their brief
sojourn in the realms of nature.
* * * *
“Bill C.”: In our N.Q. coastal range
there hadn’t been a thunderstorm or a
bushfire for three months, yet a mess-
mate-tree was burning 30ft. or more
above ground. A couple of branches had
burned through and fallen. The fire
hadn’t gone up from the bottom, and
there were no signs that some queer-
minded cove had climbed the tree
ignite it. Which makes me incline to the
belief (B. 4/6/’47) that two dry limbs
rubbing together may start combustion.
* * * *
“Aperist”: “Naturala” (B. 4/ 6 / ’47)
may be correct in crediting the predatory
ichneumon wasp with the lack of a time
sense, but such does not stand good for
all insects. The bee, for instance, has a
well-developed sense of time. This can
be demonstrated by the spilling of a few
drops of honey anywhere within, say,
half a minute’s flight from the hive. Soon
it will be found, the good news carried
home, and a swarm of collectors will
arrive. If this is repeated at the same
hour every day for several days, even at a
spot neglected most of the day by the hive
scouts, they will be buzzing around on
the look-out when the time for the free
feed approaches. And when it is dis-
continued they will be along every day
for a while at just about on the hour.
A time sense is, of course, the absolutely
essential equipment of a field bee; it
needs to be able to judge the timing of its
last journey for the day so as to be home
before dark. It never misses.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter” in a debunking
mood:— .
July 6 was the centenary of the arrival
of Leichhardt’s second expedition at Lnauvei
and Ewen’s station on the western Dai ling
Downs after total failure to accomplish ni
original purpose of crossing Australia to me
Swan River. Daniel Bunce, naturalist and
botanist of the party, has told the story ot
that failure in his Australasiatic Reminiscences,
published in Melbourne in 1857. Loyal as
Bunce was to his former leader, his wholly
uncritical account gives a clear picture or
Leichhardt’s unfitness for the job. Althoug
the principal food supply for the party pt eight
white men and two aboriginals during me
anticipated two-year journey was to be ob-
tained from 270 goats, Leichhardt bought
nannies only, and but for the accidental g
of a billygoat some of the party would cer-
tainly have starved to death m the later dark
days of fever and dysentery endured ma
swamp. No dray was taken, but the 13 mules
were to carry three 501 b. leather bags eac ,
secured only by a surcingle. Naturally, they
soon bucked them off and cleared out. All
the flour was finished within six weeks of
parture. Doctor though he was, Leichhard
took no medical supplies except one small
bottle of quinine. Three months out they were
a ll —except Leichhardt —disabled by fever and
dvsentery He refused the sick men sugar, but.
Sffßh for himself. Bunce ptantedl some
mustard and cress, “to .provide a tonic(for the
sick,” as he puts it—Leichhardt cut and ate all
of it. Next day Bunce boiled a sheep s jemmy
for the helpless invalids. . The P° l
and Leichhardt promptly picked up all the
meat and ate it. . It is small wonder that
disaster overtook his expedition of the folioW
ing year. Yet ask any average Australian tor
, the name of our greatest explorer and it is
odds on that the answer will be Leichhardt.
Hume, Hovell, Howitt, Eyre, Kennedy, Forrest
Giles and the rest of the splendid band ot
intrepid, unselfish Britishers are overshadowed
by bus bogus reputation.
OLD FIGHTER.
A children’s pet is Caesar, and quiet the blue
dog lies,
Dreaming beside the homestead with sun on his
sightless eyes;
Gone are his days of glory, the battle days and
red:
His master tells his story, the children fondle
his head.
He tells, that lean brown horseman, of one
undying day
When Caesar killed the raider who slashed his
sight away;
Out where* the speargrass sparkled with gold
the sunrays spilled
They found the half-Alsatian beside a calf
fresh-killed. '
Quickly the coiqbat started —small chance his
master saw
To help in that mad maelstrom of fang and
flying paw.
Swift thrust of bleeding muzzles as each the
death-grip sought;
Oh, but the wild dog fought him as none
before had fought.
The snap of steel jaws closing, the sickening
crunch of bone,
A flash of white fangs gleaming—and Caesar s
sight was gone.
More fiercely now than ever the blue dog met
the brown, .
And Caesar won the death-grip that brought
the wild dog down.
Across the bloodstained pommel, his black
horse pied with foam,
Fast to the white-walled homestead he brought
the warrior home.
No more from that safe haven the blue dog
went again;
Done were the merry musters, the fierce fights
on the plain.
The scars of countless battles twist on his head
and side
And, awed, the children touch them, and
dream that they will ride
Ere long in those blue ranges where still the
wild mobs break,
With Caesar’s bold blue grandson to follow in
their wake.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


“Esk D.”: Early on Saturday morn-
ing nine-year-old Joe disappeared into
the lignum patch with the rabbit pack
and, unmindful of parental instructions
and the midday meal, was missing all
day. That night searchers’ lanterns
bobbed in the maze of the wiry vege-
table, for the dogs, except old Brownie,
had long since arrived home. Joe’s
father, in the right spirit of pessimism,
made for the dam at one end of the patch
and found the boy’s favorite hound
perched disconsolately on a big greybox
log. “Where is he, Brownie?” he asked
in quaking topes. “Is he in the dam?”
Brownie thumped his tail and grinned at
him. A scuffling broke out inside the log;
Brownie cocked an ear, and Joe
backed out with a bucking rabbit held
firmly by the back legs. He dispatched it
expertly with a blow behind the ears
from the side of his hand. His father
was at once relieved and angry. “You
young villain,” he roared. “Why weren’t
y’ home hours ago?” “Crikey, Dad, I
had to get that one after bein’ in there
all day just able to touch its fur with
me fingers,” Joe said. “I dunno why y’
couldn’t’ve waited a bit longer till I got
home instead o’ cornin’ after me as if I
was a kid.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Dan ran a few head of cattle
on the selection of tall saplings and
blackberries behind his place, and he rode
around them often for fear Stingy
Murphy pounced on a straggler. Then
one day he noticed thafc a baldy cross-
bred steer was missing, and later found
the beast grazing with the mob in
Murphy’s paddock. Murphy said it was
his own and swore to brand, earmark
and the place and circumstances in which
he bought it. Dan gave him a long, cal-
culating look; then burst out laughing
and rode off. The sight of Dan talking
animatedly to the constable at the pig sale
next day did not relieve Stingy’s con-
science, and when Dan guffawed at him
several times through the day as their
paths crossed a fugitive gleam came into
Murphy’s eyes. Later he called Dan
aside. “That steer y’ was lookin’ at
yestiddy, Dan,” he said, “I had a close
look at it after y’ left an’ found it wasn’t
mine after all. Y’d better call an’ get it
in the mornin’.” Dan thanked him,
feigning a disappointed air. He added
to the farce by going directly to
the constable and continuing their argu-
ment on the team’s chances in the foot-
ball match at the week-end,
* * * #
“Wippegong”: Strange that two shy
birds, the lyrebird and the whipbird,
similar in so many habits, should use
completely different methods to catch the
same food. Both keep to the shadows
where the earth is carpeted with dead
leaves and moss grows over the dead
logs ; both have voices to set the gullies
ringing, and the coachie’s call is invari-
ably part of menura’s repertoire of
mimicry. But watch them, if you can,
feeding ; and there the resemblance ends.
The big fellow uses those great feet with
all the poise of a dancer. He reaches out,
clutches a bunch of rotting leaves and,
beautifully balanced on the other leg,
tosses the rubbish behind or aside as he
wishes, then from the space cleared
selects the wrigglers or hoppers he
fancies, while usually a scrub wren bobs
about beneath his chin grabbing the leav-
ings. Never hurried, never flustered, he
will try the strength of a dead stick across
his path, then either snap it off and toss
it away or quietly walk round it. He is
confident and deliberate, and his great
strength is deceptively softened by the
grace with which he uses it. Coachie, on
“ Mumma !”
the other hand, never scratches He uses
the beak alone, and when fairly on the
job the debris flies over his shoulder at
a rate. A rotten log sends him into
ecstasies, and after tearing and ripping
for the wogs he wants there 11 be a pile
of damp chips reminiscent of the drier
ones left by the black cockatoos on the
timber belts higher up; yet all the time
he’s been after practically the same game
as his bigger neighbor. Come to think
of it, there’s nothing strange in the con-
trast after all. How many of us who have
steak and eggs_ these days come by ’em
the same way?
* * * *
Bhme : Wish some of those Abohars
who find it impossible to get themselves
lost, even in midnight blizzards on vast
oceans of revolving deserts and such,
would swap jobs with our odd-jobber for
a bit. lake Dick out of sight or the
home yards and the silly coot hasn t the
faintest notion how to get back there-
The boss holds me responsible for him ,
and turning out about nine on a cold
wet night to hunt the stray isn t funny,
Usually I’d find him riding a fence some-
where looking for a gate to take himself
through to somewhere else. After a
couple of weeks of it I hit on the idea
of leaving it to his nag. Told him to give
the moke a free rein and open the gates,
It worked all right till one morning last
week when I discovered Dick wasn
home. Hadn’t come in the evening be-
fore, an( * nol one knew his likely where-
abouts. Spent an hour or two in fruit-
less search, but it wasn’t till evening we
got wind of him, when Harry Dawson
rang to see why our hand had left us
without so much as a coat. Forty miles
away when last sighted, and still heading
north, the silly bloke had changed his
lamed station mare for a recent jmporta-
tion from New South.
♦ * * *
“North”: Do ants affect the fly popu-
lation? Where I lived recently m the
Flinders hills (S.A.) ants were an unholy
nuisance, constantly carting off jam and
meat from the safes to eke out a diet of
seeds and larvae. Flies were bad, but
not nearly so numerous as further north
where there are fewer ants. The hills
breed of ant was constantly on the prowl
at food pits where flies bred. Inciden-
tally, in the hills the bird population was
small jn an area well-stocked with various
seed, whereas here on the north line there
are many birds and less apparent tucker
for them. My theory: ants, in eating
every available seed and in snavelhng
every grub that walked the earth, starved
out the birds and at the same time gave
serious battle to the fly community,
* T , „ * f * , j
“B- A. Ker’ : With fowl-th eves flned
as a general rule, a watchdog is
an essential on a chook station. But
Sandy, the new neighbor, began to look
askance at his foxy pup two hours after
buying him—the sharp little fellow
seemed to take too much interest m the
young chickens for a poultry-farmer s
hound. Next day a boot in the short
ribs interrupted a vigorous attempt to
scratch a hole under the wire-netting,
The summary action didn’t effect a cure ;
neither did several reminders with a
sulky whip. Holes were reopened several
hours after they were filled up. Sandy
had just fixed a long wire on which to
attach the chain when a gaping hole
under the netting caught his attention
and there wasn’t a chicken to be seen m
the pen! He found that pup stretched
out in blissful slumber with sixty
or seventy young chooks pecking
the fleas off his tummy. Spot’s
honor was vindicated; his scratching
ceased to be regarded as a felony, if
it was still considered a nuisance. One
moonlit night about three months later
a disturbance in the runs brought Sandy
out with the shotgun. Amid the flutter-
ings and squawkings the furious chook-
valet heard an excited yap and saw a
black-spotted, white form darting among
the inert little bundles of white that
dotted the nearest fowlrun. The twelve-
gauge roared; Spot, borne by his im-
petus, turned a complete somersault and
lay still. No! There was no mistake.
The dog wasn’t fighting off another dog
or a marauding fox. He’d just reverted
to the favorite pastime of fox-terriers:
killing. Sixty-nine defunct pullets were
left as mute evidence of his prowess.
« * • *
“Betcha”: The East Gippsland am-
phibian that “Lower Tops’l” is interested
in (B. 28/5/’47) is evidently the chap
that’s known locally as the Water-Jack.
An ugly beggar, harmless and inoffensive,
he is still found on a few of the quieter
streams round the Buchan and Malla-
coota districts, but is by no means so
numerous now as he has been. Twenty
to 30 years ago, on streams where he is
now unknown, it was common to come
on the old Jacks sunning themselves
along the edge of the river roads. At
one’s approach they would slip over the
bank into the water. First-class
swimmers, they can shoot along, either
on top or beneath the surface, at a speed
surprising in a creature so ungainly.
About 2ft. long, and of a greyish color,
they are not easily spotted as they lie
on rocks and logs, their raised and watch-
ful heads resembling fallen sticks. Rifle-
men generally considered the ugly
goanna-lizard fair game for their marks-
manship, and some of the old hands
attributed Jack’s disappearance to this
cause; but considering the long stretches
of uninhabited streams I can’t agree.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Today was the day of the
Battle of Giants, The cold weather hav-
ing sent the grasshoppers into hiding,
my pouched mouse, Mr. Smith, alias
Sminthopsis crassicaudata, was hungry,
and I found a stray gecko and put it in
“ Well , it's me or them, sister—take y’r choice!”
his cage. The lizard ran into the shelter
of Mr. Smith’s bark bedroom which Mr.
S’, was not at the moment occupying. The
little mouse caught the movement and
darted in. The next second saw the
gecko on the outside of the steeply-
sloping bark hanging on with his 20 toes
and his 16 toe-nails, while Mr. Smith,
his tiny teeth buried in the butt of the
lizard’s tail, tried to pull him down. For
perhaps a minute the furry little terror
humped himself and strained to break
the gecko’s grip. Either because the grip
was too far forward or because of the
fact that its tail was a replacement, the
lizard failed to shed its rudder. At last
something happened- —too quickly for me
to follow. Anyway, the two warriors
were suddenly inside the bark shelter
rolling and scuffling in Mr. Smith’s grass
bedclothes. A few seconds later the
gecko was outside, minus his tail, with
Mr. Smith half a sneeze behind him.
This time the mouse was lucky. Seizing
the reptile across the chest he held it,
crushing the ribs in on heart and lungs
with a bulldog grip that did not relax
until, apparently, all struggling had
ceased. Then, relaxing slightly, he moved
his teeth a fraction of an inch to one of
the lizard’s forelegs and chewed that up.
The other foreleg went the same way, and
after that the mouse transferred his
attention to the defunct reptile’s head.
From the head he worked methodically
downwards until, in half an hour, only
the hindquarters were left. They, too,
soon disappeared, leaving me very grate-
ful to Nature for Mr. Smith’s diminutive
size.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Possums prefer
human habitations to the best that Nature
can provide (B. 18/6/’47) because, like
all flesh and blood, they crave comfort.
A house, particularly one built along the
old lines of low ceiling and no man-
holes, provides greater comfort, security
and privacy than any hollow tree can
offer.
n< * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Aren’t koalas con-
cerned with taking shelter, or does the
fur of these bears turn rain? For some
days I have been observing a large old
buck in a little-visited gully in the Morn-
ington Peninsula (Vic.); in cold, driving
rain squalls Billy has slept unperturbed
in daylight hours on an exposed, long
springy manna-gum bough, merely on
occasions changing position. Yet there
are plenty of stalwart gum trunks where
the animal might find better protection
from the weather. The most surprising
thing to me is how the grey and white
of this bear’s fur, especially when he is
facing you, so admirably blends with the
white and grey bark of the surrounding
gums. Until you observe Billy in his
natural habitat you would never credit
the superb camouflage.
* * * *
“A. B. Marker”: A goanna may have
no need for snake-antidote venom (B.
28/5 /,’47). I saw a goanna about 3ft. 6in.
long taken from the innards of a
7ft. desert tiger snake at Baratria (Q.).
As the go. had gone in head first, I can
only suggest that he crawled into Joe’s
open gob to get into the shade.
* H= * *
“Emjai”: The shearers were at Ryan’s
and were bedded in the empty barn.
About “lights out” young Dinny came
in for a yam and, unnoticed, dropped the
old man’s stockwhip' in the far comer.
Dousing the hurricane lamp he de-
parted, trailing a length of twine over
the line of blankets and through the
door. With the first notes of the stertor
overture the stockwhip got a move on,
and things began to happen. Curley, the
first contact, yelled “It’s a blake! ” which
each in turn emphatically confirmed, and
boots and language and whatever could
be grabbed in the gloom were hurled
at the slithering Joe. Lanky’s pitch-
fork wrought havoc in wrong places.
and a thrashing swingle-bar skittled
Johnson. As Joe slid into the patch of
moonlight at the door those of the team
still standing were fighting tooth and claw,
but Smithy, near the door, was in time
to swing an axe and bisect the vanishing
Joe. Ryan’s shearing was delayed, but
the nether half of the whip was suffi-
cient for the trimming of young Din.
WILD BEES.
Old moralists refer to these
Winged immigrants from overseas
Who solved their problems long ere man
His economic gait began.
When through a garden droning
At least the insects seem to be
Contented slaves of industry,
No hateful tasks bemoaning.
Their brown old forbears meads and rills
Hellenic knew; and Latin hills.
O’er fragrant thyme in Picardy
They labored long when Chivalry
In mail was jousting gaily.
Transported South, the species learned
That honest wages might be earned
In fields Australian, daily.
Pre-emptive rights of abo. bees —
Pacific, like the mild Chinese —
The swa’rms ignored. Efficient, they
Pursued the tenor of their way;
Established operation,
And, backed by armament, became —
Whate’er the justice of the claim —
Chief lords or occupation.
From patent hives, successors wing
O’er clover paddocks in the spring;
But in the virgin bush abide
Ancestral relatives who hide
—ln workshops green boughs under —
A wildling vintage yearly won
From blossoms dowered by the sun
With treasure-trove to plunder.
No iguana, bird of air
Or envious opossum dare
Dispute their titles to the holes
In knotty limbs or hollow boles
Where dwell these freelance toilers,
Who yield no tribute, pay no tax
On honey flow or moulded wax
To predatory spoilers.
Their mood is mine, who’d fain survive
Remote from any ordered hive;
Indulging, in a bushland free,
My dreams of Art and Poesy
And glad romances olden;
Full knowing that all flesh is grass,
Its futile mintage mainly brass —
While Liberty is golden!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


You can tell it’s
A "MAXIMUM" PROPERTY!
• WELL WATERED • BETTER CROPS
• MORE PROFITABLE
Parched land gives poor profits. You can grow splendid crops
and get good returns for far less effort with "Maximum," the
modem spray irrigation system.
You'll Have water where and when you want it!
No other system can be erected and moved
with such ease and speed. "Maximum" has the
famous flexible coupling. You change pipe
positions quickly without stopping pump or
fd
motor. Gives good coverage and cost per acre is low.
Agents: Smith & ©luyas Pty., Ltd., 154-154 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. J 1456.
Pascoe & Co., Ltd., 282 Port Road, V/oodville, South Australia. M 7127.
Welling & Crossley Pty. Ltd., 143-149
Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. MX4889.
Mail this coupon to Maximum Spray
Irrigation Co., or to any of the agents
listed. Learn more about "Maximum"
... how it can help youJ
Name
Address
B.B
MANUFACTURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY
IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY
MA 7858
TEAM OP & ,jL
A6.22.1T
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND, I 563)
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, WACCA, MOREE, HENTY AND HAY
m
CV^NOGAS
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas Is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
BUZACOTT-WOLSEUEY PTY.. LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Care of Lambing Ewes.
“M.E.L.”: In chilly tablelands country
the winter is severe on both ewe and
lamb, particularly if the year is not good.
When there is a scarcity of grass in hill
paddocks and sheep travel down to the
level and more exposed portions of the
run where the picking is more plentiful
it is necessary to leave communicating
gates open between paddocks to give the
lambing ewes the benefit of the hill
paddock for shelter, and the better grass
paddocks for the sunny hours.
It is essential to ride the paddocks at
least twice a day. A ewe heavily in lamb
and rather weak (particularly the aged
ewes) will frequently go down under the
increased weight of the lamb—Merino
ewes in lamb often carry a fair body of
wool as well. In wet weather Merinos
will have the added weight of wet wool
to prevent them from getting up.
In some cases the ewe, through diffi-
culty with a large-framed lamb, will need
time to regain her strength. Frequently
such ewes abandon the lamb. Another
cause of loss is crow attack, which can
account for as much as 15 p.c. of the
lambs. Crows soon gather where ewes
are having trouble and they have to be
fought off the sheep every morning.
Some old hands set rabbit-traps around
the dead sheep; one crow so caught will
scare its mates away. There is no
danger of a sheep venturing near a trap
on account of the carcass there.
When ewes have finished lambing and
arfe able to travel better, it is advisable
to bring them all down to the house
paddocks, which should be kept in re-
serve for this purpose.
Fallow It Up.
“Beggawong”: When a Land Board was
looking through the applications of re-
turned men to be admitted to a ballot
for land it found one from a veteran of
the two wars whose age was over 50 and
another from a younger man whose land
experience seemed to be confined to the
western slopes and plains of N.S.W.
The board felt like rejecting the first be-
cause he was too old and the second be-
cause the land to be ballottqd for was in
the highlands. However, it gave both
the chance to come before it. A sum-
mary of what happened: —
Chairman (to the veteran): Oh, you are
Mr. So-and-so. Well, now that we’ve heard
you and seen you, we’ll admit you to the
ballot. Before we saw you we believed
you were too old, but now it’s obvious you
are perfectly fit and full of vim and good
for another 20 years. It’s just as well you
came along and let us see you.
Chairman (to the younger man): You
say you’ve run sheep on leased land on
the tablelands south of here. But you
didn’t say that in your application. All
you said there was that you were growing
wheat and sheep in the west. You see,
the Board assumed that you wouldn’t be
familiar with highland conditions and it
was going to debar you. But now that
you’ve come and told us the full facts,
we have no hesitation in admitting you to
the ballot. If you hadn’t come before us
you’d have missed out.
The moral is plain enough. Any ex-
serviceman who wants to get into a ballot
for land should make every effort to
follow up his application with a personal
appearance before the Land Board. This
gives the board a chance to sum him up
thoroughly and, if he has the qualifica-
tions, he’ll get into the ballot all right.
Stop-drop Sprays.
“K.W.R.”: Newly-developed hormone
sprays are saving thousands of cases of
apples and pears which normally would
“Easy on the quick!”
have fallen before maturing. Early
varieties such as William pears, and Mc-
Intosh and Jonathan apples, are par-
ticularly liable to pre-harvest drop,
especially during January and February.
Use of hormone sprays has also given
greater control in harvesting later
varieties, and successful experiments have
been conducted in N.S.W. with Buerre
Bose pear, an excellent fruit which has
fallen into disrepute because of the un-
satisfactory condition in which it often
reaches consumers.
Investigation showed that fruit for late
picking could be held on the tree by
applying a hormone spray, thus avoiding
the storage losses which followed early
pickings. For best results, the first pick-
ing should be delayed about a fortnight
later than usual, and after this is finished
the spray should be applied and the
harvest completed with another two or
three pickings at intervals of five to six
days. Sprays must be applied shortly
before the drop is due to occur, and effec-
tiveness will normally continue for two
to three weeks, but additional sprays will
ensure greater maturity, size and color
of fruit.
Most commercial hormone sprays con-
sist of alpha naphthalene acetic acid or
another closely related chemical. In all
cases the hormone is present in very
dilute form, the spray generally contain-
ing only 10-15 parts per million parts of
water. With proprietary hormone sprays,
strict adherence to instructions is essential
if best results are to be obtained.
Hormone spraying delays development
of the abscission layer on fruit stalks, and
the fruit remains on the tree while reach-
ing a more advanced stage of maturity
than would normally be the case. Stone
fruits, which do not have an abscission
layer on the stalk, have shown little
response to hormone spraying.
Lea-farming.
“F.W.L.”: Where clovers may be
grown or rotational cropping with other
than cereals-is possible, lea-farming will
restore denuded soils and protect fertile
ones.
Bare fallows expose the soil to wind
winnowing or water scouring and pave
the way for erosion and impoverishment.
Frequent cultivation aggravates the
trouble. There is a lag in the produc-
tion of humus-giving vegetation between
crops, and, ip effect, the soil is paying
out all the time and getting nothing
back.
Lea-farming by growing clover crops
in rotation with wheat over two- or three-
year periods is most suited to wheat-
growing, for the clovers build up and en-
rich the soil. Some grasses are kind to
the soil in rotation with wheat, but don’t
rate as high as clovers for nitrogen
build-up or refurnishing qualities.
Grazing during the lea period helps the
soil with the droppings of stock. The
aim should be to cut cultivation down to
a minimum, with a system of alternate
grazing and cereal crops to keep the soil
in good heart. No doubt it will take a
fair while to get some played-out wheat
land back to its former fertility, but the
job must be tackled, and lea-farming is
one way to do it.
Worms in Pigs.
“D.L.M.” (Oklahoma, U.S.A.): Please
tell the Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture that oil of chenopodium in treatment
of pigs for roundworms (B. 22 /1 / ’47) is
being replaced by sodium fliforide.
Although extremely poisonous in too
large quantities, it has no harmful effect
on the pigs when used as a 1 per cent,
mixture of the feed, and its -worm kill
is greater than oil of chenopodium. The
pigs do not have to be starved for 24
hours, a half ration at the feeding pre-
ceding the sodium fluoride mixture feed-
ing being sufficient to ensure the pigs’
eating plenty of the medicinal feed. This
information is according to U.S.D.A. ex-
periments. The sodium fluoride treat-
ment has been used with success here at
the agricultural college.
The Tree.
“B.”: Since first cuttings were brought
to Australia by Essington Lewis and
planted in the Zinc Corporation’s
grounds at Broken Hill thousands of
cuttings have been grown on arid places
of the Commonwealth. It is one of the
best tree finds for low-rainfall areas,
A native of the Arabian desert, it will
flourish despite droughts. At Broken
Hill it arrested sand-drift. Three rows
will form a windbreak dense from the
ground up in a shorter time than any
other tree. Light green, with sheoak-Iike
foliage, it makes a fine ornamental tree;
the timber is useful for fuel and poles.
Strike from cuttings planted in tins or
in the permanent position. Quick rooting
results if the soil is sandy; it must have
plenty of water till it is well established.
As the tree develops, prune to one main
leader and a broad conical shape with
lower limbs reaching towards the ground.
Cuttings are obtainable from the Zinc
Corporation, Broken Hill, and should be
planted in early spring and protected
from stock.
Liming Soils.
“Bai”: Liming at regular intervals
is usually necessary where rainfall exceeds
30in., or where hand-watering or irriga-
tion is done. In limestone country, of
course, there may be no necessity to add
lime unless the soil is loose and sandy,
which allows some of the lime content
to escape with every shower. Amount
of lime to be added depends upon the
soil texture as well as upon other factors,
and particularly upon the kind of crops
it is proposed to grow. When there is
any doubt upon the subject, a sample of
the soil should be submitted to the
Department of Agriculture for advice and
information. Details of climate and pro-
posed crops should be given, and expert
advice can then be expected.
As a general rule more lime is re-
quired in clayey loams than for sandy
areas in spite of the rate at which lime
is lost from sand. A heavy initial dress-
ing of lime, say 21b. to the square yard,
may be used on clayey w soils where the
rainfall is good, and about half the quan-
tity the following season. For medium
loams lib. to the square yard is suffi-
cient for a first dressing, and for sandy
loam about ilb. to the same area, but
the same quantity may be necessary in
subsequent dressings if the land is very
sandy. Before liming, the soil should


THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
%
THE
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
Ifin. Ring Surcingle, Hin, best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup,leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
A ustralia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers *
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephony; FA 5013.
f
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/G
SKIN IjOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
MO
rf-%
V
£
a
<
I 1
ea
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER A CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG
<gu
Q
V
H
Still,the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR
☆ Abreks trousers & sovereign hats
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
be ploughed, or dug over, and the lime
spread evenly and then forked, or culti-
vated into the topsoil to a depth of five
or six inches.
Potatoes do well in a slightly acid soil.
Like tomatoes they are less subject to
disease when acid is present. Maize, oats
and certain legumes are also tolerant of
acid in the soil, whilst cabbage, cauli-
flower and wheat need to have their wants
catered for. Asparagus, beet, celery,
onion and lettuce need correct soil com-
position, and expert guidance should be
obtained before large crops of these are
sown.
After the land has once been limed
there is little danger from overliming.
Where alkaline content is great, compost
is especially valuable, but the practice of
applying animal manures in a haphazard
manner often results in the production
of too much leafy growth. This applies
to tomatoes, potatoes, parsnips, carrots
and various kinds of peas and beans.
Molasses for Stock.
“Jumbuck”: Molasses is a splendid
supplementary food for cattle during
drought. During a dry spell in N.Q. we
kept our horses in good condition by
feeding them on molasses mixed with
cane trash. At times the prads got a
handful or two of oats but not often.
Most of the horses I saw working on
cane farms were fed principally on the
same diet; their condition argued that
it agreed with them.
As a stock lick solidified molasses ap-
peals to both cattle and horses, but for
some unknown reason we had no luck
with molasses in any form with sheep.
Blocks of molasses were placed near pads
that led to water but not two p.c, of the
sheep took to the new lick. Later we
placed salt near the molasses and it was
only an odd sheep that took the slightest
interest in the latter. An acquired taste
doubtless caused the sheep to stick to
their old love, the salt lick.
Another move tried in vain was placing
blocks of molasses in the water-trough.
Mixed with fodder or even spread on
lopped scrub, liquid molasses should be
relished by starving sheep, and a proved
lick, once sheep take to it, is two parts
Epsom salts, six parts Liverpool or similar
salts and eight parts molasses. Once sheep
acquire a taste for molasses they should
benefit from it as do horses and cattle.
My experience, however, is that sheep, no
matter how hungry, take a lot of per-
suasion to eat molasses.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: Management is of prime
importance to control strangles. Any
horse showing a mild catarrhal condition
should be isolated —preferably into a
roomy, well-ventilated box with separate
watering and feeding facilities. Stall
from which the animal is taken should
be thoroughly disinfected and left vacant
for three or four weeks. All stable
paraphernalia and harness should be dis-
infected. A new and promising vaccine
may be obtained from the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratories, Parkville,
Vic.
“P.O’D.”: When fat lambs are being
weighed prior to market, throw an old
hat or wool-pack over their heads when
placed on the scales. This prevents the
lamb from struggling, thus making weigh-
ing correct and easier.
“Gip”: Scatter tomato seeds very thinly
in a well-prepared seedbed in the open.
Cover with a sprinkling of fine sand or
well-rotted manure. Keep the bed damp,
but well drained. The plants are ready
to transplant when about 4in. high. A
few days before doing this harden them
up by not watering, then water the bed
immediately before transplanting. A light
wooden framework covered with hessian
is all that is required to protect from
frost. This should be removed during
the day to enable the plants to get plenty
of sun.
“Bat”: Strawberries may be planted
from rooted runners until the middle of
September. Any kind of soil can be
sanded or manured to make it suitable.
Lime well three weeks before manuring
with well-decayed farm manure—fowl-
yard sweepings for preference. The
sweepings can also be used as a mulch
when the soil is cold, especially if blos-
soming has begun. Sulphate of ammonia
should be mixed with superphosphate in
the proportion of one to two and added
to the soil according to size of plot. It
takes about 701b. of the mixture to ferti-
lise a square chain, say, 241b. of the sul-
phate to 481b. of super. Spread the mix-
ture evenly and dig in when the plants
are ready to sow.
“Gravelsnatcher”; When mixing plaster
of Paris for repairing interior walls, put
the plaster in a shallow tin or tray and
immerse it in water, letting it stand until
it stops bubbling. Don’t stir the water
into it, but lift it from the water and
drain it. Use quickly—it soon hardens
—and do small areas at a time, smooth-
ing the job with a fine calsomine brush
slightly wet.
“V.M.”: By this copper cure I’ve cured
at least 50 dogs of distemper. Grind a
bit of copper tube —a penny will do in
a pinch—on an emery wheel. Collect the
powdery copper, mix it into a ball of fat
about an inch in diameter and put it
down the dog’s throat.
“Plane Creek”: Turkeys do badly in
black-soil country and in damp climates.
Well-drained gravelly or sandy country
with a low annual rainfall suits them.
They are born wanderers; a bird will
hunt about for insects in timbered coun-
try for hours, and then camp where it
is for the night, going on again in the
morning. Range, therefore, should not
be too free, or you may lose all the
birds.
“Rabbito”: There’s some good stuff in
T. K. Ryan’s “Stock Poisoning” (Assoc.
Gen. Pub., Sydney), but he’s off the
track when he says that rabbits, poisoned
with strychnine in burnt-off country,
make for charcoal as an antidote. He
states that rabbits took apple jam and
strychnine baits in burnt country, be-
came very sick, but generally recovered.
On catching a few he found them full of
charcoal, which he reckoned was eaten
as an antidote. No doubt the rabbits
contained the charcoal, but I’ll swear it
didn’t get there after the strychnine.
Anyone who’s seen a rabbit take a
strychnine bait knows the bunny is lucky
if it has time to grind its teeth before
the poison drops it. A better explanation
is that rabbits picked up charcoal when
feeding, and that it absorbed sufficient
strychnine to stave off the usual lethal
effect.


Petroleum oil . . . the life-blood of modern transport
... is pumped from great lakes deep below the
earth’s surface . . . piped, often for many miles, to
and from the seagoing tankers .. . passed through
refineries that “crack” it into motor spirit, Deisel
fuel, motor lubricants, kerosene, and valuable bi-
products . . . and delivered, in some form, to con-
sumers.
In this long journey, petroleum products pass
through Steel Tubes of many sizes with various
types of joints. These Steel Tubes are mainly
responsible for the economy of petroleum fuels
. . . for without them transporting charges
would he enormous, and the cost of winning
the oil from the earth prohibitive.
Every day, in endless ways, Steel
Tubes silently and efficiently
perform offices indispensable
to civilisation. Stewarts and
Lloyds produce these vitally
necessary Steel Tubes by
the speediest and most
efficient of Tube-
making processes.
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD,
Newcastle and Sydney, New
South Wales: Melbourne, Vic-
toria: Brisbane and Rock-
hampton, Queensland: Perth
and Fremantle, Western Aus-
tralia: Hobart and Launceston,
Tasmania: Stewarts and Lloyds
(South Australia) Ltd., Kil-
burn, South Australia.
Missing Friends.
Re Estate of KATHLEEN MARY ARCHER TIPPING
WILL EVELYN ISOBEL TIERING, last heard of in
Christchurch, New Zealand, about 12 years ago, who
is believed to have subsequently married and be
residing in England or Eire or possibly Australia,
or any children of the said Evelyn Isobel Tipping
or anyone knowing of their whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, New Zealand?
COWAN, William David, late of Waverley, Retired
Clerk, deceased, died 1945, aged 77. His next-of-kin
and all persons having knowledge thereof, particu-
larly of the marriage and issue of his mother, Mary
Elizabeth Howe, with John Long, please communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney,
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO GAVIN ALFRED EDWARDS late of Sydney and
Brisbane.—TAKE NOTICE that CHARLOTTE
EDWARDS has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1170
of 1947 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Bth September 1947 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from EDWARD
LORENZO EVERETT, Bank of New South Wales
Building, Bondi Junction, the Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, or from MESSRS. JENNINGS & JENNINGS,
Solicitors, his city agents, of 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT ' OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce,
TO SIDNEY HAROLD RUSSELL—TAKE NOTICE
that GRACE CHARLOTTE RUSSELL has filed her
Petition for Divorce No. 4584 of 1946 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and she is asking the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) a If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 9th
day of September next and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from CHRISTOPHER
LIGUORI SHEEHY, Petitioner’s Solicitor,# 76-78
Pitt Street, Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
a
3
T 2
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED'CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOBS NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
-WARNING!-
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
sbTven YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NSW.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
' (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qland),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. (6 73.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
“But that isn’t my land, below,” said
Mr. Hicken. He was wishing now that
it was
“Irrigate back there,” said the boy with
a jerk of his thumb towards the slight
slope of the hill, “Get an engine and
a pump and some piping, like Sam Lone-
0 ”
8 ’ , , , tt *ii
Mr. Hicken shook his head, s Y-
costs money, he said. He was a trifle
irritated by the constant references to
Sam Lonegan.
The Hickey boy said, “Ralph could
buy it all from his deferred pay. That’s
how Sam Lonegan bought his.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Hickey. He no longer
hated Sam Lonegan. Perhaps there was
something in it, Ralph and his deferred
pay. If he could get the boy to spend
it then he might stay.
“Grow anything then, Mr. Hicken,”
said Dolly Hickey’s boy. “Squash, water-
melons, rock-melons, peanuts.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Hicken, again. His
eyes were beginning to moisten. He
could see, clearly enough in his mind,
the green lines of the peanut plants on
the red turned soil; could smell the spray
as he had often smelled rain, and he
could see the rich crop of melons, pump-
kins and the like. Yes, it would be good
if Ralph were to spend his deferred pay.
“I’ll buy some of your stuff, now,” he
said. “I’ll buy a squash and some pea-
nut* How much did you say they were?
„ Peanuts » said the Hickey boy.
“I’ll buy a watermelon, too,” said
Mr. Hicken. Mr. Hicken, who rarely
ate f ru it, loved the soft sweetness of
waterme ] on
The dam was ftnished . The gurgling
h & d stopped, swallowed up in the swelling
vo i ume 0 f water. It almost terrified Mr.
Hicken, so much it was after so little,
He shook his head so that his hair looped
more than ever, and a few tears dripped
to his feet.
“Wonderful,” he said, “wonderful!”
“Not at all, Mr. Hicken,” said the
Hickey boy. “Only too pleased to do it
for you.”
Mr. Hicken suddenly became aware
that the boys had worked for him. They
would want money, of course,
HEY might want a lot of pay. Then
I therfe were the vegetables he had
promised to buy. A small thrill of terror
went through the old man. He looked
at the dam, the water of which seemed
to increase amazingly in volume before
his eyes. He felt uneasy. His eyes,
again, began to water.
“Ha,” he said nervously. “Well, you’ll
be going, eh?”
The boys stood silent. Mr. Hicken
began to feel a sort of terror for the
money they might ask. What could he
do then, if they asked a high price? He
began to wonder whether he should have
let them build the dam.
“Mr. Hicken,” said the Hickey boy
seriously, “I was wondering if you’d let
us have some pears?”
“Ah,” said Mr. Hicken. He bent for-
ward as though he might not be able to
see the boy.
“We built the dam,” said the bullet-
headed boy.
“Of course. Of course,” said Mr.
Hicken hurriedly.
“Then we thought” said Dolly
Hickey’s boy.
“Quite,” said Mr. Hicken. He gazed
wistfully at the golden fruit. “Take what
you like,” he said in a voice he did not
quite recognise as his own. “As much
as you wish,” he added valiantly.
The boys did not wait to be further
urged. They drew their now empty cart
under the magic tree and dropped the
ripe fruit into it, Jim Hickey sitting up
in the loaded branches and throwing the
fruit down to the bullet-headed boy. Mr.
Hicken scarcely noticed them. He was
staring down the paddock at the sheet
of water growing before his eyes. He
was shaking his head all the time.
When the boys were leaving, their
dray filled to capacity as a dream that
has come true, golden pears piled high
and tumbling, he saw the melons, the pea-
nuts and the squashes lying beneath the
tree.
“You’ye left the vegetables behind,”
he shouted to them.
“We’ll be back,” they shouted in reply,
“after we get the next load.”
Mr. Hicken nodded. Perhaps they
would give him two squashes, and not
even charge him; or, anyway, give him
an extra pound of peanuts. Yes, he’d
prefer an \ extra pound of peanuts,
although soon he’d be growing his own.
He chuckled over that, his head bending
lower.
At first he was thinking about the
water in the dam, then the irrigation,
then Ralph and his coming home, and his
deferred pay.
The two boys looked back and saw
him staring down at the heaped pears.
“He’s talking to himself,” they said.
Nevertheless they rather liked the picture
of the old man, standing there, his head
bent, looking down at the golden fruit.
Because they were a good distance away
and the wheels scraped on the brake
leathers, they could not hear his chuckle.


s~\. .-■ /• /
3
m
r m
Yrusabo
ski
g
.VVW
;I «d
.GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
> ; : A
LEA 6
PERRINS
SAUCE
THE SAUCE
WITH A
SECRET
§otn*
! h am
mm
SAUCE
'** °*o«« tanmi to*u t!r * li
PE
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“The Hollywood Hair Stylists’ Guild has
decreed that women shall get their ears sun-
burned this season.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
But they’ll need to be a shingle short
to carry out instructions.
“There is a *bclieff popular among men, that
women are bad car-drivers.” — “S. M. Herald /'
Hence they take a back seat.
“Mid-riffs are the latest thing in pyjamas.”
—“New Idea.”
We thought they were the latest thing
out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lost: Purse, light brown, containing money
and piece of coal, at Crow’s Nest. Reward.”
—“ S. M. Herald.”
On forwarding to Bunnerong or the
Gas Co.
4" 4* 4* 4*
“Gas mains overtaxed.”
—Tamwortk “Northern Daily.”
What are they groyvling at —haven’t
they just given themselves a £5OO p.a.
rise?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Radio cleaner since 1945.”
—Melbourne “Sun” heading.
There are certainly more vacuums in
the programmes.
“Sydney shops may be forced to deliver.”
—News item.
Hitherto it’s been the customers who
have had to stand and deliver.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Canberra real baby territory.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
Federal Ministers are always doing
childish things.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Poet’s will held valid by Court.”
—Sydney “.Sun.”
Even if it didn’t have rhyme it had
reason.
“ Don't take any notice of him—he's cuckoo!"
“You’ll look entrancing in this Victorian-
flavored frock.” — Woman’s paper.
And show that you have a conser-
vative taste.
“The man stated when he was admitted to
hospital that he suffered from ulsters in the
stomach.” — Magazine story.
No doubt caused by eating too much
Irish stew.
4* 4* 4*. 4*
“The pawnbroker, considering his age, looked
remarkably youthful.”
—Extract from short story.
His advancing years had, of course,
taken heavier toll of his clients.
Getting Your Man.
“Many songs have been written on how to
capture a man’s heart, but one of the quickest
ways is through his stomach.” — Sydney “D.T.”
The modern girl, lest man should falter
Before he’s guided to the altar,
Abets with cute psychology
The impulse of biology;
Or seeks to use the aid fictitious
Of stars to find a date propitious ;
And learns from widows practical
The right approaches tactical.
And yet, ere women used cosmetics,
Our mother Eve, with dietetics
In Eden’s garden learned to grapple
And won her husband with an apple.
And even now this book-lore stuff
Just can’t compete with plain plum-duff.
So girls, when hunting husbands wary.
Just aim to please the “Little Mary!”
D. H. E.
Degrading Influence.
‘‘Enamelling—young men wanted for train-
ing as swillers, etc.” — “S.M.H.”
Mrs. Sarah Stubbings, of Botany-road,
Waterloo, writes:
“Well, if that don’t beat everythink,
fancy teaching young men to get on the
sherbit! as though they need any encur-
ridgement, lord knows the sorrow and
shame Ive had with my old man comin
home blind as a bat and nocken me
around, until he died of alkoholick
poisenin and a good thing too I offen
think.
“But 111 see the day when I let my
youngest boy Herbie, he’s just turned
seventeen and me last hope, start working
in that enameling place, the guverment
ought to step in and put a stop to it,
leading young fellers a-stray. Its down-
right disgracefull I recken, and I ought
to know, I’ve seen the havvick that grog
can reek.”
CAL.
Unwelcome Visitor.
“Fliers in helicopters have embarrassed nude
bathers at the Ambassador Beach Club, Cali-
fornia.” — Sydney "Sunday Telegraph,”
As you’d have fled in mortal dread
To seek the nearest cover from
The threatened dropping of a bomb
With ruin red, so, when you’ve shed
Your clothes to swim, it might be said
An equal threat to your aplomb
Is offered by a Peeping Tom
Suspended smugly overhead.
And in the feeling of chagrin
By which you’d find yourself distressed,
The situation is akin
To when an unexpected guest
On Sunday afternoon drops in
And finds you, as they say, not dressed.
P. M. LUSK.
Among the Intellectuals.
“I think the opinions obtained by your paper
on important subjects from the man and the
girl in the street, rather than from the so-called
well-known people, form a valuable contribution
to the world’s thought today.”— Letter to Sydney
flapper daily.
“The ‘Dilly Yellowgraph,’ in pursuance
of its eventual hopes of raising the mental
age of its readers to eleven, obtained the
views of a number of ’teen-agers, who,
of course, are very important people, on
the subject of the present sharp differ-
ences between Russia on the one hand
and Britain and France on the other over
the American plan to aid European re-
construction. Here are some of the
thoughtful replies obtained by our
reporter, and they reflect the obviously
keen interest being taken in international
affairs by those in whose hands our
future rests.
“Shirley Dymwitt, 18, who works in
a. city fun parlor: 7 think the Americans
ought to send more talkies over to Europe
just to show them how the Yanks can
run things. I’m sure the girls in Chile —
that’s in Europe, isn’t it?—and other
countries over there would simply rave
over Van Johnson. He’s got the cutest
smile. And they’d simply fall in love
with the gorgeous dresses worn by stars
like Jinx Falkenburg and Lana Turner.
It might smarten them up—l’ve heard
the European girls are very frumpish.’
“Joan Geewillikins, 17, pickle-bottle
labeller, of Matraville, contributed one
of the most thoughtful views on the sub-
ject. T learnt at school that Europe is
nearly as big as Australia and with a lot
more people, too. If we can have a forty-
hour week here I don’t see why they can’t
have even a twenty-hour week there.
There would be work for everyone then
and they wouldn’t have to go asking for
help for America. What do they want
help for, anyway? Haven’t they got a
Government to give them things? 1
think things like French perfume are too
dear. If they had a twenty-hour week in
France it might make some of the per-
fumes cheaper. As it is I can’t afford to
buy more than one small bottle a week.’
“Fanny Fetherbrane, 17, milliner’s
assistant, of King’s Cross: ‘The Yanks are
all right—why does everyone keep pick-
ing on them? If they want to splash their
money about, let them. They gave me
a good time when they were out here
a month or two ago, and one nice boy
promised to marry me. I haven’t heard
from him since he went. I can’t under-
stand it, because he was so enthusiastic
about it. He even showed me a photo, of
his people’s place—it looked like a Holly-
wood star’s mansion, with a big tiled
swimming pool and everything. Perhaps,
though, he hasn’t been able to get near
a post office, travelling around like that
all the time.’
“Brenda Blobb, 19, hairdresser’s assist-
ant, of Darlinghurst; ‘What they want in
Europe is more of the pioneering spirit
like my grandfather had when he came
out. He didn’t want any assistance when
he opened a little barber’s shop in St.
Peters, and he did all right. Some of
these people in Europe want to do that.
Of course I know they can’t all open
barber’s shops, but there’s other things
they can do, like run beauty shops, and
they could have places like our Luna
Park, and more picture shows and dance
halls. Of course America could still send
them things they were badly in need of,
like nylons. They seem to have plenty
of them in America, though we can’t
get any out here. I think it’s a shame!’
“Norma Nousless, 16, dancing in-
structress: T think all those people in
Europe are silly, always wrangling about
something. My boy friend also thinks
they’re silly. He knows a good bit about
it, too. He backed Russia in the last
Melbourne Cup and won four pounds,
and he bought me a lovely compact. I
don’t know so very much about the
things that are going on over there, I
only read the strip stories in your paper.
But I always think that Molotov—he’s
something to do with the atom bomb
thing, isn’t he? —has such a funny
moustache.’
“Sally Sapp, 17, florist’s assistant:
‘Why don’t they run lotteries in Europe
if they want things? They’d make a lot
of money out of them and wouldn’t
need then to ask America for help. Look
at the rush there always is to fill them
here. I got a real thrill last week —I
was only seventeen off a five-pound prize!
I think that’s mostly the trouble with
them in Europe, they’re too slow. Any-
way, I hope they fix things up soon over
there, so I can get some “Paris Dream'’
lippy again. It’s my favorite.’ ”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4?, d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Lae in the Ward Time
Much has happened in Lae since I saw
it last. In the harbor the rusty bows of
a Japanese ship point to heaven. High
and dry on the beach another lingers
and decays. The rotting piles of a wharf,
built and demolished, stick out jaggedly.
“The Terrace,” a flat-topped rise over-
looking the harbor, where once a row
of cool green-and-white houses looked
out, is now occupied by ugly army huts.
Around the bay towards the mouth of
the Markham River are the wharves
built by the Army but now falling into
ruin—traps for the unwary walker or
rattling nightmares for drivers of “Dis-
posals” vehicles. Everything in Lae is
“Disposals.” A taxi service is run with
amazing red-and-yellow jeeps topped by
amazing home-built canopies. Trucks,
still in their war paint, jolt their uneven
way over rutted roads and bridges or
stand stalled in the middle of the road
with native posteriors protruding from
under the bonnet.
The people are living in army huts.
The bank is an army hut. The Hotel
Cecil occupies what were the A.W.A.S.
barracks. Old landing barges are used
for the vehicle ferry running across the
bay to connect with the Wau-road.
Many dwellings are monuments to the
ingenuity of the occupiers, but they are
still army huts. Furniture has been
scrounged from everywhere and painted
with “Disposals” paint.
What the future will bring to Lae is
hard to see. What will happen when the
“Disposals” vehicles are worn out (it
won’t be long), when the wharves, have
fallen into the sea, when the army huts
are in ruins, when the “bad patches” in the
roads have grown and joined together?
There is no sign of maintenance work,
except for one or two men making futile
efforts to patch the wharf, and for a
native or two desultorily scraping the sur-
face of the road.
I asked various residents for opinions.
They were all in agreement. An official
of the Civil Administration summed up
the opinions; “It is not a bad racket
while it lasts, but sooner or later the tax-
payers of Australia are going to wake
up to us. We all get fairly good money
and pay no taxes. We’re nearly all civil
servants living by taking iff each other’s
washing. We are not producing, and
hindering those who are. The natives
are a seedy lot, sullen and unhappy—not
like they were When you knew them.
They won’t work, although they are
offered almost ‘white’ wages. They won’t
sign on and their services, if we could
get any other labor, would not be worth
having. We’re not allowed to discipline
them in any way.”
I asked several natives what they
thought of the new Administration. One
and all their reply was the same: “Be-
fore time more better.”
Meanwhile the mountains behind look
down, and the lazy sea laps the beaches
and the mangroves, and the lotus-eaters
pursue their placid way.—T. F. W. (Q.).
Socialism
The core of capitalism is the recover-
ing of money from the community at a
greater rate than it is paid out. When
the P.M.G. does this to the tune of mil-
lions a year it is hailed as a great social-
ist achievement. But when B.H.P. does
the same thing on a smaller scale it is
capitalist exploitation.
Stalin and company include a profit
item of from 25 to 75 per cent, in retail
prices {vide Sir Walter Citrine’s In Search
of Truth in Russia ). If a pair of boots
cost 10s. to produce, the Soviet cost
accountant adds 2s. 6d., making the retail
price 12s. 6d. From where does the
worker in the Soviet paradise get the
half-crown? The cost accountant does
not give it to him, any more than B.H.P.
distributes its profit before it is made.
Of course he doesn’t get it at all, and the
Soviet contains the seeds of its own de-
struction just as much as capitalist U.S.A.
If that sounds like an exaggeration, look
at the debt structures towering higher
and higher. Debts are unrecovered
costs.
The parrot cry of “public ownership”
is the most stupid of socialist slogans. In
any real sense there can be no such thing.
How can the trammies, the mothers in the
homes and all the rest of us “own”
the railways in any intelligible manner?
Limited-liability companies are, in a
restricted sense, the nearest approach
to public ownership yet devised.
Professor Currie, of the W.A. Univer-
sity, proclaimed two years ago that “the
solution of agricultural troubles lies in
the nationalisation of the land.” The
professor should know that, to get the
best from the land, it should be left in the
hands of those most able to tend it. —
Perseverando (W.A.).
Shorter Hours
An important feature that seems to
have been ignored in this 40-hour week
discussion is the relationship between
employer and employee.
In grazing, wheat-growing, contracting
and general country business it has been
the custom to allow time off for haircuts,
minor business matters, domestic duties
and sport, all without deductions from
the pay envelope. The employee, in re-
turn, from time to time “went the extra
mile” for his employer, thus creating an
atmosphere of mutual understanding and
confidence.
Arbitration awards, industrial in-
spectors, time-sheets, overtime and col-
lection of taxation at its source have all
tended to suspend these concessions on
both sides, with a consequent reduction in
efficiency and an increase in mutual dis-
trust.
Mr. Chifley has spoken of increased
output. The most effective method of
achieving this is to win back the spirit of
co-operation and goodwill between wage-
payer and wage-receiver. C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
That R.S.L. Vote
“Barwon” (B. 25/6/’47) seems to have
a particularly blunt axe to grind. Most
ex-servicemen know all about the “no-
hopers” who did their overseas service in
an assortment of Army clinks and who
eventually got an honorable discharge in
“Damn you, sir; I almost tripped over your dog!”
Australia, even though they were num-
bered among the many who never saw
one of Rommel’s panzers or an angry
Nip.
Very few of these chaps become mem-
bers of the R.S.L., or if they do they keep
well away from their local sub-branches.
There are ex-Diggers of 1914-18 who
occasionally bring a 1914-15 Star to light,
but become a little coy when asked whose
mob they were with. A little determined
digging and questioning will probably
elicit the fact that the warrior never got
closer to the nastiness than Cairo or
Horseferry-road,
A great misconception exists regarding
the meaning of “R.S.L.” The first word
of the organisation’s title does not mean
“Returned to Australia”; it stands for
“Returned from Active Service,” and be-
fore 1939 that meant active service over-
seas as far as ex-members of the R.A.N.,
A.I.F. and A.F.C. were concerned. Ex-
Imperials, Kiwis, Springboks and Canucks
had to produce their discharges, which
showed that they had left their respective
countries for service overseas, beforei
being admitted to membership. The
parrot-cry at once goes up “But the 1914-
18 war was not a global war!” Possibly
not, but I know of at least 12 countries
(excluding the U.K.) where members of
the A.I.F. served, fought and dfied —
Egypt, Turkey, Palestine, France, Bel-
gium, Italy, Greece, North Russia, Syria,
Mespot., Persia and New Guinea.
It is a definite fact that before 1939
95 per cent, of the R.S.L. consisted of
ex-fighting members of the A.I.F. The
organisation was looked upon as an asso-
ciation of ex-servicemen who had
actually experienced contact, or near con-
tact, with the enemy in the field.
I’ve listened to a lot of nonsense
burbled about those who “enlisted for
service anywhere and who were unfor-
tunate enough not to be sent out of Aus-
tralia.” The use of the ( word “unfor-
tunate” is not a happy choice. At one
of the many debates on this question a
young schoolteacher, age 26 and a Tobruk
Rat, very bitterly questioned the “unfor-
tunate” angle. He left Australia in 1940
and was invalided out three and a half
years later a shadow of the young,
powerful athlete he had been. Now, be-
cause of his wounds, he is unable to
carry on as a teacher and has to be con-
tent with makeshift jobs in between long
spells in hospital.
Surely, he said, those so-called “un-
fortunate ones” are really very fortunate?
He argued that the infantryman who got
sidetracked for the duration into a camp
at Woop Woop, and even the flying in-
structor who risked his neck at Bullama-
kanka, wfere considerably better off than
their opposite numbers who might have a
piece of mortar bomb embedded in a
lung, or who had to bail out over Ger-
many and spend an eternity of time in a
Nazi Stalag, or who were caught, starved,
bashed and tortured by the Nip in
Malaya, or who crashed in New Guinea
to be decapitated by the sword of a
grinning little bowlfcgged monkey from
Honshu.
To my way of thinking his argument is
unanswerable. There are just two classes
of ex-servicemen, those who did and
those who didn’t —and the R.S.L. is for
those who did. — Double Disc (N.S.W.).
“Barwon” misses the worst aspect of
the R.S.L.’s plebiscite. In the main it
matters little that some are excluded —
the brother who stayed home on the farm
is one of us. But it is important that the
League at least retain some of its pre-
war vigor and cohesion. As now con-
stituted it cannot.
Members of the “old” League had a
great ideal in common; every man was
a volunteer. That was the bond which
held them. And, be he 'rogue, liar or up-
right citizen, the volunteer is the life-
blood of any people.
Members of the “new” League have
only the “returned” in common. The
word has no cohesive qualities. It exists
only by virtue of moves political and tac-
tical, Before they could be “returned”
a percentage had to be rounded up and
driven aboard ship. At its worst this can
be taken literally. As they now had to
be “returned,” anyway, they decide they
might as well be “volunteers,” These
pseudo-volunteers are the antithesis of the
true volunteer. And yet they are mem-
bers of the R.S.L. There is no longer
a common ideal. —R. G. B. (N.S.W.).
Income Tax
On June 21 I received my income-tax
assessment —to say nothing of my en-
forced contribution to “social services” —
for the year ended June 30, 1946. In 10
days’ time I should be preparing my
return for the financial year just ending,
and I suggest that if income tax had to
be collected after annual returns were
lodged the Commissioner would be more
prompt in sending out demands.
In the days before “pay-as-you-eam”
I invariably received my demand early in
February. Now, however, with most of
the tax collected from week to week the
Taxation Department’s staff can appar-
ently ease up.
I object to the principle of “pay-as-you-
earn” taxation, and consider that the
wage-earner should have the use of his
income until he receives his demand some
six months after the end of the financial
year. But when the Treasurer fails to
make an approximate guess—the “guess”
is invariably against the taxpayer —I have
further reason for objecting to the new
system. Tax on my modest income I
optimistically hoped to be paid to within
a few shillings from my weekly contri-
butions. I am called on to pay just over
seven per cent, on the amount already
paid in stamps. The middle column
under “Social Services Contribution” is
headed “Contribution is Half Amount at
Rate Shown.” Then why not halve the
rate? It rather looks like making two
calculations do the work of one!
Anyway, unless the means test is
skittled I am most unlikely to derive
benefit from any Governmental social
service. Apparently, however, I am ex-
pected to provide for the declining years
of the loafer and the improvident —and
civil servants’ superannuation.
It must be admitted that the income-
tax demand has its intriguing aspects.
This excerpt is taken from a section
headed “Concessional Rebates”:
A special provision applies, however, to
limit the rebates of tax otherwise allowable
to an amount sufficient to reduce the net
tax, after deducting rebates, to half the
net tax that would be payable on the tax-
able income of the year ended 30th June,
1946, at the rates of tax applicable to the
year ended 30th June, 1945.
The originator of that jargon probably
understands what it means.— Dives
(Tas.).
Social-service Tax
“Cal” (B. 18/6/’47) either doesn’t
know what benefits are supplied to the
community from the social-service tax or
else he shows a lamentable indifference
towards the well-being of his fellow-
people.
He may know a few people who pur-
posely loaf on workers like himself, but
he fails to realise that unemployed-
relief expenditure is a very small per-
centage of the complete social payments.
The men who receive this unjustifiably
can only be a minute percentage.
The tax is levied to pay for such bene-
fits as old-age pensions, invalid and
widows’ pensions, maternity bonuses,
child endowment, unemployed and sick-
ness benefits and free hospital benefits.
If a man went to the Boer War, sent
a son to the 1914-18 war, a grandson to
the last one and, with his wife, worked
all his life helping to build our country,
I don’t mind paying my share towards
his pension. And after feeling philan-
thropic about that, I am selfish enough to
want to contribute towards the other
schemes from which I may benefit any
day.
I want to pay the social-service tax as
an insurance against an accident which,
next week, may send mfe to hospital for
six months. I can’t afford to pay for that
and additional doctors’ expenses, but
now, with free hospital treatment, sickness
won’t be a financial catastrophe for me
and my deferred pay.
I want the other benefits, too, when I
marry and have kids. — Downs (Q.).
Lancs and Libs
“Oliver Filter’s” reference to the Yanks
(B. 19/3/’47) leads me to speak up on
their behalf, I served on a Lancaster
squadron in England only 30 miles south
of a Liberator base. Many a time early
on a frosty morning we stood outside the
mess watching the Libs going out in per-
fect formation to the heart of the Third
Reich, and accompanied our good wishes
with such remarks as “Wonder who’s
carrying the bomb today?” “There go
the Yankee machine-gunners! ” “Where
do they hide the bomb on those things?”
and so forth.
Later in the day we would be airborne
ourselves and headed for the Fatherland
with upwards of six tons of explosives per
aircraft. The Yanks, in spite of their four
or five hours’ start, would return at about
the same time as we did, and, as the
difference in air speed was only about
40 m.p.h., it can be seen that they pene-
trated deeper into enemy territory than
we, and consequently faced more enemy
ack-ack batteries. Again, being the first
out, they exhausted almost all the Jerry
fighters before the heavily - escorted
R.A.F. entered the arena, I should men-
tion that our Lane, squadron was a “day-
light.”
There came a day when some thought-
less Jerry shot our aircraft out of the
German skies, and thus gave me the op-
portunity to watch the Libs from the re-
ceiving end —and to note results. The
perfect tight formation, so good for
bombing, was still immaculately main-
tained even when the flights were boxed-
in in flak. The markers were accurately
aimed, and those “teeny-weeny” bombs
showered the target area for an hour to
an hour and a half. The R.A.F. was
more of the “This won’t hurt—did it?”
style, and gave a quarter of an hour of
deafening, earth-quaking, nerve-shatter-
ing terror. The tonnage dropped was
about the same for each Air Force.
Listening to the throbbing engines fad-
ing away homeward I thought many a
time of the R.A.F.’s rum and coffee back
at the mess, or the Army Air Force’s rye
whisky dished out in a paper carton, and
blessed ’em all— John Dee (W.A.).


Slugging the Motorist
The recommendation of the N.S.W.
Main Roads Board for a 20 per cent, in-
crease in motor taxation should draw
attention to the burdens a motorist has to
bear. He pays heavy registration fees for
his car, having already paid sales tax on
it. But it doesn’t end there. He must in-
sure his car against third-party risk and
pay to have it examined every year before
he is allowed to register it, while with
every tyre or tube or gallon of petrol or
pint of oil he is slugged for more tax.
If he lives in Sydney it is practically
impossible to get out of the city without
paying a toll of some sort. It costs him
ninepence to cross the Harbor bridge,
plus an extra threepence for each pas-
senger. If he decides to go further north
he is held up again at the Hawkesbury
for another heavy toll to cross the new
bridge. If he goes south he must pay
sixpence to cross the George’s River
bridge, and of course another sixpence
on his way home again. To cross the
Parramatta River there is a toll of three-
pence at the Ryde bridge.
The pedestrian can visit any of the
many beaches for nothing, but the
motorist is held up for a parking fee of
sixpence or a shilling. To bus and train
passengers and pedestrians the great
National Park and Kuringai Chase are
free, but it costs the motorist a shilling to
drive into either place. He pays at least
a shilling parking fee if he visits races,
football, cricket or any other form of
sport. Even at the suburban picture show
there is an unofficial car attendant who
expects a “present.” —W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Petrol Rationing
Of what earthly use is it? Anyone who
wants extra petrol for any purpose can
obtain more than sufficient to meet his
requirements; and that without recourse
to the blackmarket.
In my own case I did have a good and
sufficient reason to undertake a long trip
by car. I simply filled in the necessary
form at the police station and re-
ceived enough petrol tickets to do the
whole trip twice over. There was no
question of refusal; it was all as easy
a» winking.
Dozens of people daily concoct some
tale and get coupons for thousands of
gallons of petrol. And yet the rationing
system persists. Why? Because Friends
of “Labor” would lose many useless jobs
were it abolished? — Lizzy (Q.).
Rating in Brisbane
The other night, we patients of Green-
slopes Repatriation Hospital were treated
to the “movies” by the C.E.M.S. One
film, issued in Brisbane, was entitled
“Why Pay Rates?” and aimed to show
how every pound paid in rates to the
Brisbane City Council (B. 21/5/’47) was
apportioned.
The pound was distributed thus: ss.
for the upkeep of the city water supply,
ss. for tram and bus services, ss. for
electricity supply, 2s. for roads and
bridges, 2s. for public buildings and
parks and Is. for public health.
It struck me as remarkable that the
B.C.C. —at present trying to take over
private bus services—had to allot ss. in
the pound to maintain a service which
private owners already ran satisfactorily
without any subsidy. It’s no good say-
ing that bus routes do not pay. Just
try to buy a single bus run! Two to
three thousand pounds is not an unusual
price. In spite of the apparently high
profits private companies can make,
B.C.C. has to allot one quarter of its
total rated income to subsidise its ser-
vices. No wonder there is an increase
of 2d. in the pound in this year's rate
estimates.
More remarkable still, however, is the
fact that only one twentieth of the city's
income can be allotted by the City
Council to public health services. The
film showed the spraying of an odd creek
with oil for mosquito control, the spray-
ing of city streets by a water-cart, and
a scene of immunisation of children at
a clinic. No mention was made of
sewerage schemes. Only 25 p.c. of Bris-
bane homes are sewered. They will
probably stay that way until the Civic
Fathers make a more balanced distribu-
tion of their income and overhaul the
public utilities, which should be paying
for themselves without any subsidy.—
Momokan (Q.).
The Blackmarket
Fifteen minutes after I came down the
gangplank of the ship that brought me
back from a Jap prison camp an un-
savory-looking fellow with a portmanteau
and a leer was offering me bottled beer
at “half a dollar” and cigarettes at a
“deener” a packet. I had been forcibly
kept from such amenities for four years
and was a little slow on the uptake, but
other prospective buyers almost knocked
me down in their mad rush to buy luxuries
at attractive prices. Then someone said,
“It’s the only way to get the stuff.”
And, mysteriously, “the ‘black,’ you
know.” I didn’t know. The blackmarket
was new to me.
At the moment I am living in my new
home, and I consider that a miracle has
been performed. The first three contrac-
tors approached asked for deposits rang-
ing from £5OO to £lOOO before attempting
to dig a level. “It’s the only way to get
materials,” they told me. “We have to
buy on the ‘black.’ We get no credit
there. Got to have the cash before we’ll
tackle your job.” The fourth contractor
was honest. He built my home.
Of course I am without a bath, a basin,
a gas stove and a few other utilities.
And, of course, I can buy them on the
“black.” The other day I was offered a
new bath for £2O, and a plug for the
bath for £lO. Plug and bath being in-
separable I refused the offer.
There is no doubt that the blackmarket
has become part and parcel of existence.
It has undermined the honesty and
financial integrity of innumerable Aus-
tralians and permitted thieves and rogues
to become rich. It is an evil thing and
yet most people, accepting it as a neces-
sary evil, are too stupid tp do anything to-
wards stamping it out.
I live on the outskirts of a fair-sized
city, in a community that has its own
shopping centre. We all know each other
and the tradespeople think themselves
respectable pillars of local society. The
butcher is honest. If meat is scarce
we go without. We cannot get a porter-
house without coupons. Pork is unpro-
curable because at the abattoirs, right
under the righteous noses of the inspec-
tors, pork is sold to other butchers at
prices far in excess of pegged prices. An
unusual man is our butcher.
The tobacconist and shearer is often
out of smokes, but the s.-p. —solid man!
"Slow down, Joe—l'm joggin' round on broken bottles or somethin'!"
—who operates on the premises, fills the
gap conveniently. We can always buy
American, English or Australian brands
from his suitcase at “fixed” prices—he
fixes them. The tobacconist laughingly
says, “I don’t know how he gets them.
Wish I knew.”
The publician doesn’t open his bar some
days. There’s a beer shortage, of course.
We go around to the backdoor and some-
body slips us a bottle at two bob. Some-
body often has stockings, spirits, cigarettes
and other things at fancy prices too.
The greengrocer also does funny things
with his price tickets. Most people shop
on Friday and Saturday. Thursday’s
navels at 10 a shilling are six a shilling
on Friday. Apples, cauliflowers and
everything else take part in the mean
shuffle. And other shops have their
rackets.
The present leaning towards sharp
practice and roguery is pretty general.
And it’s not, of course, confined to my
stamping grounds. Eradication is a
simple matter of law enforcement and
non-co-operation by every right-thinking
Australian. When all is said and done the
people have the greatest power for good
or evil.— -Passun (Vic.).
Dairyfarmers and Holidays
When nearly 20 farmers left the Gayn-
dah (Q.) district last year because of the
lack of normal amenities in the dairying
industry, the dairy association be-
came concerned and introduced a scheme
whereby dairyfarmers would be free to
take annual holidays. For three months
an experienced dairyman has been avail-
able to care for farms while their owners
are on holidays. Several farmers who
have not had holidays for 10 years have
been able to go to the seaside for three
weeks.— Septimus Warwick (Q.).
Slow Motion
Slow motion is the only way to
describe the deliberations of Civil Avia-
tion on granting or refusing of applica-
tions for new air routes. Applications
have been lodged by many ex-R.A.A.F.
types for services they are keen to run,
but, except in rare instances, there has
been nothing doing.
Consider the case of Inland Air Ser-
vices Pty., Ltd., a Brisbane venture with
an ex-fitter 2E as managing director
which wants licences to fly freight and
passengers over certain inland routes.
Directors and staff are all ex-service-
men and are all shareholders, but so far
C.A. has not given them a decision. With
the blessing of the Queensland Govern-
ment they have been permitted to buy
fish in Brisbane and fly it to the inland
towns and sell it there as their own
property. This apparently they can do
without a C.A. licence, but they cannot
handle freight for other people or carry
any passengers.
Apparently there is a quaint regulation
which provides that an air operator can-
not fly over the same route more than
once every 28 days with passengers and
freight unless he owns the freight.
Under the present C.A. set-up a special
committee is surveying the routes applied
for, and it is supposed to grant a licence
only wh£n it is satisfied the applicant has
a reasonable chance of making a financial
success without Government subsidy or
other assistance. Government officials
are not noted for optimism, and what
the devil has it to do with C.A. whether
the show pays or not? If the applicant
has the necessary equipment and capital,
and if he can comply with C.A. safety
regulations, the department can protect
itself by having a signed undertaking
that he does not need or will not
at a later date apply for Government
assistance. It would then be up to the
individual or organisation to go ahead,
and the success or failure would be on
his or its own head.
We should grant air-service licences to
every centre of population which can
provide the essential landing facilities.
The freight and passenger potential are
there, as Arthur Butler has proved con-
clusively. He had a stiff fight on his hands
to get approval for his direct daily ser-
vices to Evans Head, Dubbo, Bathurst
and Parkes because the official mind did
not consider they could possibly pay. He
gets 90 p.c. loadings and better at all of
them, and if C.A. was wrong in those
cases it could be wrong in others.
“Safety first” is an excellent slogan,
but when the official interpretation ham-
strings the progress of civil aviation some-
thing is wrong. Anyway, “safety first”
should not be applied to the financial
status of an organisation that wants to
get moving ; only to its capacity to deliver
the goods and to the safety of its pas-
sengers. Where there are conflicting
applications for the same route all C.A.
should be concerned with is the ability
of the organisation to handle the job.
Preference should be given to those most
fitted for the work, with full regard to
the Re-employment and Re-establishment
Act.
Australians have always been noted
for their initiative and ability to stand on
their own feet, so that when an organisa-
tion asks permission to run an air service
to any part of the Commonwealth with-
out subsidy there should be no shilly-
shallying. Every encouragement should
be given to persons or organisations will-
ing to render this service, for they are
keeping pilots and ground engineers in
active work —something essential to our
future defence.
Thd general public has no desire to see
possible routes kept on the ice for T.-A.A.
against the time when it might be ready to
open them up. Private enterprise and
particularly ex - R.A.A.F. types are
anxious to turn their war-time experience
to civil use. They are prepared to take a
few risks with their capital. Why stop
them? — H. Bowden Fletcher, D.F.C.
(N.S.W.).
Culture
“C.E.T.” (B. 18/6/ ’47) rightly de-.
plores our general lack of mental and
verbal polish, but he fails to offer a prac-
tical cure. Banning and censorship,
though necessary, are negative. The
proper books must be placed in the
hands of children at the right time. A
planned course of reading would do more
good than volumes of criticism or
abstract advice.
A barefooted boy in an obscure Scotch
village was lent some good books by a
man who hawked candy from door to
door. These books started him on his
way to become Prime Minister. Ramsay
MacDonald.
If one man, by judicious lending, could
do so much for one boy, many men
through organised effort could do as
much for many boys. The books are
already available. All that is necessary
is to bring the books and the boys to-
gether at the right time and place, accord-
ing to age and ability.
Teachers, preachers and parents could
combine in a campaign to provide the
right reading matter at the right moment,
instead of leaving the rising generation
to find its own way without guidance to
the highest shelves and the darkest comers
of our well-filled libraries.
The vendors of printed poison are well
organised. The price of culture is eternal
vigilance on the part of those who have
its cause at heart. — Worm (S.A.).
Homes and Immigrants
Mr. Calwell in one of those radio inter-
views:—
By the present Government’s scheme
Australia will bring in immigrants at the
rate of one per cent, of the country’s
population every year. This means that
the first year’s immigrants will total
approximately 70,000 When the popu-
lation reaches 9,000,000 we shall be adding
about 90,000 people a year....As many
of the immigrants will be builders, the
scheme will not necessarily affect Australian
people at present short of homes.
Our present population is about
7,500,000 and we are short of 350,000
homes, only 50,000 of which can possibly
be built in this financial year. Even if
all the immigrants brought their car-
penters’ kits with them and lived four to
a house they would still need 17,500 new
homes on arrival. — Dinosaur (Q.).
“Free Medicine”
“Jock’s” blast (B. 25/6/’47) is based
on the popular medical myth that
once the necessity of paying consulta-
tion fees is removed the whole profession
will be overwhelmed by chronics and
hypochondriacs to the general detriment
of medicine. He 4- e -ds. his theorem by
stating “New Zealand has tried and
failed.”
According to medical authorities here
the principal fault with the Maoriland
scheme is the tendency of doctors to flog
the 7s. 6d. consultation fee to death.
“Medicophiles” exist in all classes of
society, but for every one of these there
are two who dread visiting the doctor be-
cause of the resultant- account and who
fall for stuff extolled in advertisements.
Later, when a good number of their
ailments prove to be serious, the doctor’s
first cry is, “Why didn’t you come here
sooner?”
How often is it that serious illness
suddenly strikes a household so that years
of family savings are swallowed up in
medical expenses almost overnight? How
often do decent, thrifty people, be-
cause of their obvious inability to pay
for protracted treatment, have to* go
through the maddening‘mill of the public
hospital routine? This will always be
the case while people are forced to pay
two and three guineas for such things as
X-rays, brief consultations and patho-
logical tests, and eight guineas for blood
transfusions.
The proposed Government scheme
doesn’t really purport to be free —the
people know they are paying for it them-
selves through taxation, and they know
that there will be much waste and many
faults. But most of them will prefer that
to gambling on being blessed with good
health.— Ad Rem (Vic.).
Dedman’s Dole
The majority of ex-servicemen at
present taking full-time courses are about
24 years old. They would be well estab-
lished in good jobs by now if they had
not been called to their country’s service
over the last six years.
Eligibility for full-time training depends
on scholastic ability and natural aptitude,
not on a pecuniary desire to seek an at-
tractive profession.
“R.W.” (B. 4/6/’47) had youth in his
favor, enabling him to complete his
studies before carefully weighing up the
pros and cons of marriage. Ex-service-
men could not expect their fiancees to
wait for the duration of the war and of
their rehabilitation and 12 months after,
before starting married life. The amount
these men require above the present
allowance would scarcely be reflected in
“R.W.’s” tax assessment. —H. D. L. (Vic.).


; ;
"< ’
S 3
■
£S
% ' '<*
'v
N >
■= —■:
ft?
SHIPPING: A 6,000-ton freighter
ready for launching at the B.H.P.
'Vhyalla Shipyard. S.A
r
m
’■■■' ■
FENCING: Wire netting being gal-
vanised at Rylands* Wire Mills,
Newcastle. N.S.W.
i"
s
Me a
f
n$
Steel
e
k */!; #
m
-
Uct§
ahb
f O/?
e
rLr
omm®
i
«8
•'••••• IJWWHW • ■ MMM
m
ENGINEERING: A huge press shapes
Australian motor car bodies.
STEEL: A glowing ingot of B.H.P. steel emerging from the bloom
mill at the Newcastle Steel Works.
HAULAGE: Steal
wire rope beta?
manufactured at
Newcastle, N.S.W.
TRANSPORT:
Motor cox assembly line welders on the job.
mmm
•'V.'”' .
'M
: : V
HOUSING: Galvanised corrugated steel
sheets being packed at Lysaght's New-
castle Works. N.S.W.
EMPLOYMENT; Some of the Newcastle Steel Works,
7.000 employees coming oil shift
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide. Brisbane. Perth
London. Singapore and Philadelphia.
STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W. SHIPYARD, WHYALLA, S.A.
