

o
>
i
OF THE
fd
X 1 3 d d 3 S
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3540
Wednesday, December 17, 1947
Price ed.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MUNSTER'S KINGS WERE CROWNED ATOP THE MIGHTY ROCK OF CASHEL
r T'HE ancient ruins which surmount the rock of Cashel in county
”*■ Tipperary are all that remain of a royal city of ancient Ireland.
Here it is said was where St. Patrick, when he was old and feeble,
baptised King iEngus, a hero of antiquity. And here, too, is King
Cormac’s tiny chapel, one of the most remarkable in the British
Isles: remarkable because it was built in Norman style by much-
travelled Irish monks half a century before the Normans invaded
Ireland. The round tower and the cathedral of Cashel belong to
the twelfth century, and, because this was the seat of the ancient
kings of Munster, this group of ruins comprises one of Ireland’s
most sacred relics, 'it will be remembered that it was at Cashel
that Henry II received the homage of O’Brien, King of Limerick.


Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
Vy Name
Mg Address
e.B. 247 ..
AGE
BOOK SUGGESTIONS FOR CHRISTMAS...
72 ESSAYS, by Walter Murdoch.
An excellent selection, by Australia’s famous
essayist—essays that Walter Murdoch values
most highly. 13/6 (post 5d.).
ROAMING AROUND AUSTRALIA, by Frank
Clune.
“A picture of Australia that can be grasped
in one mitt.” Profusely and interestingly
illustrated. 13/6 (post 4d.).
AS YOU WERE 1947.
A cavalcade of events with the Australian
Services from 1788-1947. 9/- (post (id.).
LACHLAN MACQUARIE, by M. H. Ellis.
A beautiful edition. A Prize-winning Biog-
raphy. A biography that reads like a thrilling
narrative. Seven hundred pages, Illustrated in
colour. 42/- (post 1/3).
BOBBERY UNDER ARMS, by Rolf Boldre-
wood.
The nicest edition available of this Austra-
lian classic of the exploits of the Marstons
and Captain Starlight. 10/6 (post 6d.).
THE SLAVES OF SOLITUDE, by Patrick
Hamilton.
The wistfully amusing story of a lovable
English spinster who lives in a small board-
ing house outside London. 9/6 (post 4d.).
An excellent gift— cannot fail to please.
DIMOCK’S ATTRACTIVE GIFT TOKEN
Available now —any value.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD., 424 George Street, Sydney. Box 1521, G.P.O*
The Red Page
NORMAN LINDSAY'S
NOVELS.
With the regularity of a machine
Norman Lindsay continues to produce,
among a shower of oil paintings and
watercolors, pen-drawings, ship models
and statuary, a novel a year. Rubens ran
a picture factory: Norman Lindsay is a
factory. Yet his latest novel. Half Way
to Anywhere (Angus and Robertson),
is much more explosive than mechanical.
Like last year’s The Cousin from Fiji
it is bursting with energy. It crackles
with life and laughter. And it is, if two
books so different in scope and intention
may properly be compared, a shade better
than The Cousin from Fiji. Not in con-
struction, for in The Cousin, making it a
model of organic unity, half a dozen
themes were twined together and brought
simultaneously to conclusion, whereas in
Half Way to Anywhere, though the theme
of Bill Gimble’s pursuit and final con-
quest of Polly Tanner makes a reason-
ably satisfactory central story—about as
good as you could ask from the group
of adolescents whom the novelist is por-
traying—the action moves more episodi-
cally, as in a series of linked short stories,
and there is not the massing and com-
bining of plots and sub-plots to be found
in the other.
In characterisation, too, The Cousin
from'Fiji may have slightly the better of
it; at any rate in the dramatisation of
characters. Once again, in a book about
adolescents, it is hardly possible to bring
out the hard, settled pomposity and
treacherousness of a George Domkin, the
ruthlessness and tragic intensity of a
Gussie Maguire. The characters of
adolescents, in life and as they are drawn
in Half Way to Anywhere —ranging from
the pugnacious Waldo Peddler to the re-
tiring Bunty Hodgett, inventor of won-
derful and useless machines —are distinct
enough, but more fluid than the person-
alities of adults. They are individuals—
Bill threatens to shoot himself when
caught in embarrassing circumstances,
whereas Waldo, similarly unmasked,
threatens to knock his old man’s head
off—-but nevertheless they have not fully
emerged as personalities from the
common pot in which adolescence groans
and bounds and simmers. As the youths
are “half way to anywhere” at the time
Norman Lindsay observes them, so are
they, almost, half way to anybody.
From The Cousin from Fiji one re-
members, along with the comedy, the
period atmosphere of the ’nineties and
some glimpses of Ballarat and Melbourne,
individual characters: in Half Way to
Anywhere it is the general picture of
adolescence that is most memorable.
Bill and Waldo are true pieces of
characterisation, or the novel, instead
of being firm at the core as it is, would
be hollow; but, beyond that, they are
Every Boy.
This is the great appeal of Half Way to
Anywhere. It is not a book that one
would recommend to impassioned admirers
of Eric, Or Little by Little. But every
man who was once a youth of fifteen,
who liked to shoot and to swim, to
eat a disgusting meal of fried corned
beef cooked in a cowshed on a
wet day, to experiment with beer,
tobacco and cooking sherry and who,
above all, longed for girls, but when
confronted with one “couldn’t find
a blinkin’ thing to say to them” —every
average good citizen, that is to say, will
recognise his long-lost self in Bill and
Waldo ; and, perhaps, with just a touch
of a completely unsentimental pity, with
profoundly humane understanding and
with much laughter, will see himself for
the first time as the pathetic goat he was.
Norman Lindsay has achieved this uni-
versality by a meticulous realism. It is,
doubtless, nostalgic. A writer does not
invent a gramophone such as Bill and
Waldo stole from Waldo’s brother Bags
for the furnishing (along with the gigantic
sofa, the marble-topped table and the
commode) of the pleasure-house where
they proposed to entertain fair ladies.
The machine, described in such intimate
detail and with such obvious affection, is
surely something seen and heard and re-
membered :
Greatly exulting, Bill and Waldo reclined
at ease to entertain a leisured interval with
music... Well, yes, music if you listened
hard enough. It was a very aged gramo-
phone, dating almost from the genesis of its
invention, with a battered tin trumpet and
a few worn and scratched records; and
when set going it emitted a shrill screech-
ing and clicking, under which, by intensive
listening, a ghostly tune might be detected
struggling for audibility against the gramo-
phone’s determined efforts to drown it.
To what extent Half Way to Anywhere
is directly autobiographical one need not
inquire. Like David Copperfield, like
Maupassant’s short stories, like Conrad’s
novels or, to come nearer home, like
Such Is Life, On Our Selection and The
Pea Pickers it is a distillation and a
recreation of autobiographical experience,
the raw material of life reshaped into a
detached work of art. But, because it is
firmly based in experience and knowledge
and written out of an astonishingly re-
tentive memory, Half Way to Anywhere
gives the impression of complete fidelity
to life in every detail.
And it is in this respect that the book
becomes, if not a better piece of crafts-
manship than The Cousin from Fiji,
richer in the full flavor and essence of
life. There were, it is true, convincing
pictures of Ballarat in the earlier novel;
houses and gardens were described ; and,
to vie with the gramophone, and Bill’s
shotgun, and Bunty Hodgett’s inventions
—the furnishings of life mysteriously
imbued with the personality of their
owners —there was a notable collection
of old hats. Yet Ballarat was not quite
present in that novel in the way that
“Redheap” is in Half Way to Anywhere.
Here, as in Saturdee, the town itself is
almost a character in the novel. As
Dickens brought London alive into his
novels, so —in a much smaller way, of
course —does Norman Lindsay not
merely describe but, literally, recreate the
“Redheap” of his memories—the dig-
gings, the hovels of the Chinamen, the
swimming hole, the patch of furze where
Pa Peddler chased Bill Gimble at dead of
night, and, as in the description of the
search for possible pleasure-houses, the
town itself in intimate and vital detail:
An old, boarded-up empty house behind
the Wesleyan parsonage would have been
eminently suitable save for the slight dis-
advantage that the only entrance to it was
by way of a skylight in the roof. Purdie’s
old empty store down the main street was
free of that disadvantage, since you could
gain entrance to it by a cellar-flap opening
into the basement; but it was a dim, dank
echoing cavern in the night, dark as the
bottomless pit, and if you had a light like
as not it would be spotted through chinks
in the shutters, and bring old Danby the
copper nosing round to inquire into an
illicit possession of the premises. They
even inspected an ancient hovel in the
diggings, long deserted by other Chows
because old Jimmy Ah Wah had pegged
out there; but it had a list to starboard
and its roof had caved in, and proposals
to reconstruct it were far too strenuous
to be considered. “Far as I can see there’s
nothing for it but that blinkin’ old shed
down our cow paddock,” said Waldo.
Examined as to whether or not they
have this pantheistic quality, Norman
Lindsay’s novels may be said to fall
into two fairly clearly defined cate-
gories : evocations of the Australian
earth, or exercises in the craft of
fiction. Strict definition is, of course,
impossible, for sometimes the cate-
gories overlap and The Cousin from
Fiji, for example, refuses to be placed
tidily in either compartment. In
the first category, for its whole-heartedly
Australian flavor, must be placed the
children’s book The Magic Pudding, and
following it come Saturdee, Redheap and
A Curate in Bohemia (Mr. Colin
Roderick, in his Twenty Australian
Novelists, has surely not given full con-
sideration to the life of Melbourne
streets and lanes as well as of Bohemian
studios and cafes recreated in that novel).
In the second category are The Fly-
away Highway, Mr. Gresham and
Olympus, The Cautious Amorist, Pan in
the Parlor and Age of Consent. These
novels of the second list, as romances,
fantasies or dramas, novels for the sake
of a problem or novels for the sake of a
story, have their own merits ; most of
them, in fact, have for years been best-
sellers in England and America, But it is
with the first list, the evocations of Aus-
tralian earth, that Australian criticism is
most likely to be seriously concerned.
With Half Way to Anywhere now filling
the gap between the small boys of Satur-
dee and the nearly mature young men of
Redheap. it is apparent that Norman
Lindsay has not merely written a novel
or two to fill in time between bursts of
paintings, but that he has created in fic-
tion a “world” of his owp in a way that
very few other Australian novelists have
done.
Mr. R. G. Howarth (to whom Half
Way to Anywhere is dedicated) has
already called attention to Saturdee, sug-
gesting that it should be ranked with
Tom Sawyer; Mr. Roderick, in Twenty
Australian Novelists, follows suit. What
remains to be done is to survey the
small but substantial world of the “Aus-
tralian earth” novels as a whole, and
then to relate that to Norman Lindsay’s
total statement as an artist: for his prose
comedies, it will be found, add simple
humanity and the common stuff of this
earth to the epic and imaginative worlds
of his painting.
COUNTRY TOWNSHIP .
Under the Moreton Bay fig by the war memorial
blind Jimmy Delaney sits alone and sings
in the pollen-colored dust; and Jimmy Delaney,
colored like the dust, is of that dust
three generations made. Sing for the dust
then, Jimmy, thin and strange as old fiddle-
strings
or the dry wires of grass-stems stretched in the
thrust
of a winter westerly; and if it’s true
black Mary’s your father’s mother, none better
than you
can speak in the voice of the forgotten dust.
Horrie Delaney came here first with cattle,
and shook the dust out of its golden sleep,
the golden sleep of eternal generation.
Grass, wattle and messmate-tree and earth—
death bearing life, and both come out of earth.
Deeper than the shadows of trees and tribes,
deep
lay the spring that issued in death and birth.
Horrie Delaney with his dogs and his gun
came like another shadow between the earth
and the sun,
and now with the tribes he is gone down in dust.
Dick Delaney the combo cleared these hills.
Easily the bush fell and lightly, now it seems
to us who forget the sweat of Dick Delaney,
and the humpy and the scalding sunlight and the
black
hate between the white skin and the black.
The smoke sang upward; the trees are gone like
dreams
and the long hills lie naked as a whipped back.
Greed and hunger tear at the marrowbone
and the heart in the breast hangs heavy as a
great gold stone.
Under the marred earth, his bones twist on that
rack.
Yellow Delaney is the third of that name;
and like the yellow dust, he finds no rest.
QUEENSLAND.
Landless and loveless he went wandering
with his despised white girl, and left no track
but the black mark of a campfire. How can
they die
who live without a country? He does not die,
though like the night curlew the blood mourns
in his breast
and gets no answer. Under the tenantless sky
he lives by his traps in the lost ranges; he
is the brain-fever bird calling from a rung tree
that time is a cracked mask and day a golden
lie.
Under tire Moreton Bay fig by the war memorial
Jimmy Delaney the blind man sits and sings
where the wind raises dry fountain $ of faded
gold.
No one has loved or sung of the unregarded
dust.
Dance upright in the wind, dry-voiced and
humble dust
out of whose breast the great green fig-tree
springs,
and the proud man, and the singer, and the
outcast.
All are but shadows between the earth and sun
sings Jimmy Delaney, sitting where the dust-
whirls run;
columns of dancing dust that sink at last.
And yet those men, that fallen dust, those
shadows
remembered only by the blind man whose songs
none hear
sting him in the noon sunlight as a hornet
stings.
The conqueror who possessed a world alone,
and he who hammered a world on his-heart’s
stone,
and last thp man whose world splintered in fear;
their shadows lengthen in the light of noon,
their dust bites deep, driven by a restless wind.
O singer, son of darkness, love that is blind,
sing for the golden dust that dances and is gone.
JUDITH WRIOHT.
Children's Books.
Among Australian children’s books
which have arrived at the right time of
year the largest measure of story along
with the illustrations is in Ruth C.
Williams’s Timothy Tatters, illustrated by
Rhys Williams (W, Honey Publishing Co.,
Sydney), which deals with the adventures
of a perambulating scarecrow. Mason’s
Circus by Arthur Russell, illustrated by
Edith B. Bowden (Cheshire), being the
adventures of four young circus people,
is also published at novel length and in
novel format.
Australian publishers are doing a par-
ticularly good job with the familiar large-
sized “juveniles”—mostly for the very
young lavishly illustrated in color.
Angus and Robertson submit Paddy Bow
Wow written and illustrated by Hartmut
Lahm, and The Tale of Benjamin Bumble
written and illustrated by D. H. Gilmore;
from Georgian House comes Quackleduck
written by Esmee Rice and illustrated by
Elizabeth Paterson; from John Sands
Pty., Ltd., The Vain Red Fox written by
Franklin Moss and illustrated by Elaine
Haxton; from Australasian Publishing
Co. Miranda - with - the - Mouse written
and illustrated by Margaret Mary Pear-
son and The Children’s Garden, alleged to
be by “Jill Meillon and Adye with the
help of three bears.”
Bart, the Story of a Dog by Osmund
Burton, with illustrations by Russell
Clark, a book for older children, comes
from H. H. Tombs Ltd., Wellington, New
Zealand. English children’s books in-
clude Uncle Andy’s Bedtime Stories by
Spencer Batchelor and The Stirring Yarns
of Bosun Bill (illustrated in color) by
Garry Hogg, both from Hollis and Carter
Ltd., and The Young Traveller in South
Africa by Anthofiy Delius (Phoenix
House).
The Bodley Head’s contribution is two
tiny but attractive booklets, decorated in
color —Wily Fox and the Baby Show and
Bill Badger and the Pine Martens, both
written by David Severn and illustrated
by Geoffrey Higham.
Children of all ages up to 87 would
probably like to play trains with The
World’s Railways from Odhams Press,
London —a most elaborate compendium,
illustrated with photographs, which gives
Australia and New Zealand several
honorable mentions.
Reviewed Briefly,
Lettering Design : Eric Roberts (Angus
and Robertson). A finely produced book,
giving many examples of different styles
of lettering, with an interesting and in-
formative commentary. The author is
specialist lettering instructor at East
Sydney Tech.
* * * *
Building in Cob, Pise and Stabilised
Earth: Clough Williams-Ellis and John
and Elizabeth Eastwick-Field (Country
Life). Everything you could want to
know on the subject; and, judging by
the pise houses built in Australia in the
early days, it’s a pity the subject isn’t
studied more often. These ingenious and
hyphenated authors, incidentally, can
even make a house out of chalk.
* * * *
Fire out of Heaven: Sarah Gertrude
Millin (Faber). The fifth volume of Mrs.
Millin’s war diary. It will be completed
in a sixth volume, to be entitled The
Seven Thunders.
* * * *
• A new series of paperback reprints, for
which Collins are the Australian agents,
is entitled Pan Books. Kipling, Priestley,
Hugh Walpole, A. E. W. Mason, John
Buchan and Agatha Christie are some of
the authors in the first list of twelve.
* * * *
The Melbourne branch of the Oxford
University Press has published'for Heine-
mann a new one-volume edition of The
Fortunes of Richard Mahony. At the
same time a less celebrated but very
readable Henry Handel Richardsoij novel,
The Getting of Wisdom, has been added
to the Australian Pocket Library.
* * * *
It takes a long while sometimes for a
book to be published in Australia, Mal-
colm Ellis’s Lachlan Macquarie, which
shared the S. H. Prior Memorial Prizes
in 1940 with Eve Langley’s The Pea
Pickers and Kylie Tennant’s The Battlers,
has at long last been published by
Dymock’s, Ltd. Owing to general indus-
trial conditions, the book was over
two years in the press. Its length
—about 250,000 words —and the special
care taken over paper, printing and
binding caused some 1 of the delay,
while like other Australian books of the
war and post-war period it has had to
contend with printing and electricity
strikes and the shortage of skilled crafts-
men. It has now been issued in a very
attractive form with colored plates and a
comprehensive index and set of reference
notes. The book will be reviewed shortly
for the Red Page by Dr. Eris O’Brien,
lecturer in Australian history at Sydney
University.


11l
/
yQ
a
m
iiriflifflnTWirnii
•v.- i
4*
£k-
x
Sffff
m
English Manicure Sets com-
plete with scissors, etc. Priced
at 19/6 and 39/6 each set
Fancy Goods —
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
"Patricia," by Nielsen, Two-Tone
Felt Slipper, wedge sole, full and
half sizes. Burgundy/Rose,
Burgundy/Blue, Blue/Burgundy.
Priced at 18/2 per pair
Semi-Grecian Suede - Slipper, by
Waltham. In Royal, Red or
Green. Cosy soles, sports heel.
Priced at 15/7 per pair
Ladies’ Slippers—Second Floor.
Washable Handbag in Sac de
Perle, nicely lined and featuring
double handles. Priced at 45/2
Ladies’ Handbags —
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Three-quarter Length White Mesh
Gloves, priced at 6/11 per pair
Ladies’ Gloves — Gnd. Fir., Pitt St.
Imported English Washable
Doeskin Gloves, 21/6 per pair
Ladies’ Gloves —
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
White Handbag in soft glove
leather, fitted with small
purse and mirror. 38/11
Ladies’ Handbags —
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Genuine Hide Writing
Cases fitted with station-
ery pockets and pen
loops. Red, Blue, Fawn,
Black. Price, 53/9 each
Fancy Goods —
Ground Floor, Pitt' Street.
£
m
*
v
m
Sewing Case, genuine
Morocco, complete with
cottons, scissors, needles,
measure, and lift-out tray.
Price 70/- each
Diana Fruit Comport, a very
attractive and useful gift.
Price 34/11
Fancy Goods —
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
'PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


“ Scarcity, did you say ! And in times
of scarcity which commodities become
scarcest of all ! The best , of course ! 99
It is true that WHITE HORSE WHISKY
is in short supply. It is also true that its
quality was never finer than now.
fd
You can
choose with
confidence!
Whether you choose a Plymouth, Dodge, De Soto
or Chrysler car you get outstanding beauty, hashing
performance and long-term reliability based on
sturdy construction and engineering excellence.
Only Plymouth, Dodge, De Soto and Chrysler cars
give you new Safety Rim Wheels . . . Superfinish
.. . new Safety Hydraulic Brakes, and only Dodge,
De Soto and Chrysler bring yon improved gyrol
fluid Drive.
If you are a user of Trucks or Commercial Vehicles
Of any type, you will find there is a Dodge or Fargo
for your every purpose.
So choose from the famous Chrysler, Dodge, De
Soto raage, confident in the knowledge that there
is a CJD.D. car or truck to satisfy your most exacting
requirements.
wmm
■■
G **
m s
o
to
SO
P 5
;V
m
m
% liiwiii
G
Sf*. S
G?
O?
15. s
«s
p)
t«;
■:••• .-
w
C hrysler D edge DeSo/o
DISTRIBUTORS LIMITED
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY; Harden and Johnston Limited, York Motors Pty. Ltd., Buckle Motors ( Trading Co.) Pty. Limited.
• MELBOURNE: Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Automobiles Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.
• ADELAIDE: Waymonth Motor Company Limited, FUnders Motors Limited.
• PERTH: Winterbottom Motor Company Limited, Wentworth Motors Limited.
• HOBART: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Co-Operative Motors Limited, H. C. Heathom <fe Co. Ltd.
'
* SPECIAL GUN *
“AND RIFLE Oil'- 1
GUARANTEED TO REMOVE FOUL-
ING AND RUST, PREVENTS PITTING
This ofl was used exclusively by the
American armed forces in the S.W.P.A.
ALL HARDWARE AND SPORTS STORES.
Australian Agents T
Gold Star Products, Chullora, Sydney,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of the Thompson Street Poker
Club.' —4l67.
Words of humorous verse published many
years ago in The Bulletin beginning:
I cross it the sea from my sweet Italy
To the great big Austrail I come.
—4169.
To buy copy of On the Trail of the Trusts,
a 1905 Bulletin publication; also set of prints
of Norman Lindsay illustrations for Barnard
Eldershaw’s serial “The Quartermaster.” —4165.
Meaning of aboriginal word budgewoi? —
4163.
To buy copies of Social Case Work, by
Cannon and Klein; Social Case Recording and
Theory and Practice of Social Case Work, by
Gordon Hamilton; also any other books deal-
ing with social case w0rk.—4164.
To buy books by or referring to Norman
Douglas,—4l66.
Does Anybody Know?
Whereabouts of Harry Pain Stockdale. —4162.
Title of novel by “Ouida” in which she de-
scribes her hero as rowing faster than any other
member of the crew in a boat race; —4168.
Information Sought.
What race discovered the use of iron ?
The iron age, although later than those of
copper and bronze, is nevertheless of great
antiquity. The earliest known source appears
to have been India, and it was also used by
the Greeks, who obtained it from the coast of
the Black Sea. The use of the metal probably
goes back to prehistoric times, but as imple-
ments made of it would have rusted away direct
evidence is lacking. It is possible that the
discovery occurred accidentally through a fire
being built against iron-bearing cliffs, conse-
quently any primitive race could have been
responsible.
* * * *
(1) Value of milk as a food? Does tits
consumption increase weight? (2) Does con-
sumption of water increase weight? (3) Does
consumption of honey and porridge increase
body temperature and weight?
(1) It is one of the most valuable foods. It
contains the six fundamental food constituents
—protein, fats, carbohydrates, mineral salts,
water and vitamins. Unsuited as a single article
of diet, its inclusion with meals supplies both
lime or calcium salts and vitamins A and D
necessary for tissue building and repair. Fresh
milk is readily assimilated, and with a full,
mixed diet definitely increases weight. (2)
Water taken freely between meals adds to
weight. Its main virtue is in replacement of
moisture lost by perspiration. It supplies no
fat and therefore builds no fatty tissues. (3)
Yes. In health both increase body weight.
Honey has laxative properties.
* H= * *
Authority for Mr. Dedrnan's statement that
he was opposed to people owning their own
homes as it would make them little capitalists?
The statement was made by Mr. Dedman in
the House of Representatives on October 2,
1945, during a debate on the Housing Bill.
Mr. Dedman refused to accept an Opposition
amendment that a tenant who has satisfactorily
fulfilled his conditions of tenancy for three
years should be granted the option of buying
his home. He replied: “The Commonwealth
Government is concerned to provide adequate
and good houses for the workers. It is not
concerned with making workers little capitalists.”
* * *
Cause of feather-plucking among young fowls,
and how to combat the habit?
Segregate birds being maltreated and treat
damaged feathered portion with dabs of
vaseline. Generally the habit begins when birds
are too closely penned or overcrowded, and
once started is hard to eradicate. Plenty of
green food in the pens and shell-grit in con-
tainers is a corrective; also add a little linseed
meal or olive oil to the mash once a week.
Brief Answers.
J.C.S.: Prevailing westerlies in N.S.W. cover
the Riverina, Central-west Plains and Slopes,
S.-W. Slopes, throughout the Tablelands, and
along the coast from Gabo Island to about
Clarence Heads. Over the western and north-
west inland prevailing winds are s.-w. to s. On
the far North Coast and over N.-W. Slopes,
the prevailing directions are s.-e. to easterly....
Anon: The maximum permissible retail prices
of all groceries are fixed by the Commonwealth
Prices Commissioner, and retailers are not per-
mitted to fix their own prices... .F.A.8.: The
pythons, green tree snake, a few other non-
venomous snakes, and the brown snake (a
deadly species) lay eggs; the death adder, tiger
snake, black snake and other venomous snakes
produce the young in an active, living state.
E.H.: N.S.W. Chief Secretary’s Department
advises that the Lane Cove River (Sydney) is
at present open to prawning. The Parramatta
River, however, from the railway bridge at
Ryde upwards to its source, is closed against
the taking of prawns by means of nets for a
period of three years L.M.: The weekly
award wage in Q’land (Eastern and South-
eastern Division) is £5 14s. when travelling
with stock and £2 JJs. when travelling with
plant. Higher rates ranging from 7s. 4d. extra
per week are payable in other remote districts.
In order to obtain employment with a drover
it will be necessary to be present in places
such as Charleville, Longreach, Hughenden.
Winton or Cunnamulla... .J.S.P.; Around thi
Boree Log was written by Monsignor P. J,
Hartigan (“John O’Brien”), now resident chap-
lain at the Rose Bay Convent, Sydney
E. : Write W. C. Penfold and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
88 Pitt-street, Sydney... .J. 8.8.: Particulars of
the Dampney Concrete Process for house-
building can be obtained from the inventor
of the process, G, F. Dampney, Walworth-
avenue, Newport Beach (N.5.W.)... .LJ.:
Proctor (9st.), started at 6 to 1, was ridden by
W. Briscoe, post position 13, and finished fourth
in 1947 Melbourne Cup; Murray Stream (Bst.
111 b.), started at 20 to I, was ridden by D.
Munro, post position 3*l, finished 30th (last)
in the same race S.T.: Joe Darling and
F. S. Jackson were born on the same day
(Nov. 21, 1870). Darling was captain of Aus-
tralian Xls to England in 1899, 1902 and 1905;
Jackson never came to Australia with an
M.C.C. team K.0.R.: England holds the
record Test-match score v. Australia (7 for
903 at The Oval, Aug. 20-24, 1938);. Victoria
holds the record first-class score (1107 v. N.S.W.
at Melbourne, Dec. 24-29, 1926) F.S.: As
they do not intend to reside in their own
home, the value of the property and a per-
centage of the income derived therefrom will
be taken into consideration in assessing the
rate of pension to which they are entitled
E. ; (1) and (2) You are entitled to remain
in the house until properly evicted in accord-
ance with law. You would first receive a notice
to quit and if you do not comply with that
the matter could be taken to ,court, when it
would be determined if and when you had to
leave. (3) Do not know unless during your
illness somebody had been appointed to manage
your affairs. (4) Yes, if sufficiently serious to
warrant your being incapable of managing your
own affairs 0.G.5.; (1) Tablets of methyl
testosterone are available in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. Approx, price, 30s. for 25. (2) Your
doctor^ could advise as to treatment... .E.W.:
F. J. Thwaites, Challis House, Martin-place,
Sydney.


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel —And You’ll Jump out of
Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds of liquid
bile daily or your food doesn’t digest. You
suffer from wind. You get constipated. Your
whole system is poisoned and you feel irritable,
tired and weary and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You must get
at the cause. It takes those good old Carter’s
Little Liver Pills to get those two pounds of bile
working and make you feel “up and up.*’ Harm-
less, gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills byname.
Stubbornly refuse anything else. 3/- & 1/3.
CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINrZANO C/yy^
n
Sweet and Dry
Some want them Sweet, and some want
them Dry, but everyone wants Cinzano as
the basis of good cocktails, Cinzano sweet
or dry, the world's best Vermouths!
GINZA
v
ERMOUTHS
£Utce /f/6
OR.*
TONO
*t*MOUTS
Nlnncoßir
END your RUPTURE
f
WORRIES
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and H days’ free
trial offer. No obligation,
THE KOUSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. SYDNEY.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders,
sign of Eczema.
Constant scratching is often a
Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN POTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
this Christmas!
In any man’s language, Gillette is
a gift that talks sense and satisfac-
tion. This year there’s a Gillette
to satisfy every preference and
suit every pocket. When you give
Gillette you give a razor set de-
signed and built with the superb
craftsmanship which has made
the name of Gillette famous.
m
No. 15, The Gillette “Aristocrat”,
a perfectly balanced one-piece razor,
heavily Rhodium-plated, packed in
a handsome velvet-lined nickel-
plated case, with 10 Blue Gillette
Blades in plated Sheath. 39/-*
No. 77. Gillette Razor, 2 blade
holders with 3 Blue Gillette blades,
complete in a neat modem moulded
case with decorative domed lid, in
walnut colour. 7/3.
/
r
m
2*5
c
mm
'////
No. 27. Attractively packed in a
smart moulded container with cream
lid and blue base, a Gillette heavy-
type razor, together with a packet
of 5 Blue Gillette Blades. 6/8.
These are three of the handsome range of
Gillette Razor sets priced from 4/- to 39/*»
Gillette
TRADE -Gillette-
*Good Mornings 9 begin with Gillette
cto/aar
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
Roxana: The precise memories are interest-
ing, the generalisations conventional....
L.H.M.: Your poem about dress reform is
enough to make a man shut himself up in
concrete P.J.8.: Exactly what do you mean
by the “ambient ether”? If it’s air, why not
say so? D.0.D.: No doubt you have every
reason for your fury, but you don’t sound in
the least like Captain Cook I.McL.: Not
far off K.L.W.: When you can find that
rhyme for “formalin” the jingle as a whole
shouldn’t have turned out so tame and awkward.
S.E.: Well may you apologise to Browning.
E.J.T.: You lay too heavy a hand on
“The Admiral’s Bride” H.A.M.: For a
start, then, don’t write clumsier English in
poetry than you would in prose... .K.H.T.:
The pilot cut-out the remaining motor.
Such presence of mind! We knew his motive.
Then a pancake landing—it was all too impressive.
Us twenty-three were glad it was over.
So, let us add, were we E.H.: Just a pun.
J.S.: Try a woman’s paper D.A.C.:
You should have something interesting to say
in prose for “The Other Fellow’s Mind”
H.Y.A.: “Under the old apple-tree there lies
Billy’s scooter.” Tell Billy to mount it and
scoot G.J.: “The Old Christmas Pudding”
is flat, heavy, lumpy and indigestible U.P.T.:
If you send “Baby Dear”' here again we’ll drop
him on his head 8.V.: You can’t possibly
rhyme “Attlee” with “corybantic” Bellerive:
Right off the ice :'—
... .5.8. C.; A little more strength and it would
stand a chance of going through... .C.L.P.:
Whatever you’ve been writing in your spare
time you can make up your mind it isn’t
marketable fiction... .A.E.H.: You contrive
to make it hard reading M.B.A.:You bury
your ideas under an avalanche of words....
J.L.M. and others: Can’t undertake to
return rejected paragraphs (the fact is that they
are often cut to ribbons in an ineffective attempt
to make them printable) A.S.C.; Doesn’t
move us to cheers or tears... .H.L.W.: The
trick is a little too ancient... .G.8.H.: Bad
prose arranged to look like verse... .A.A.:
We note with enthusiasm the fact that on
Sundays some husbands don’t bother to shave.
. ...R.P.T.: The trouble with hundreds of
would-be contributors is that they try to write
in what they think is “The Bulletin style.”
Now The Bulletin hasn’t got a style; the first
thing it asks of its writers is to be natural
M.F.: Lumbers along heavily and doesn’t
reach anywhere... .S.S.: Wish you would train
your spiders to write better—they’ve blinded
one man already this morning T.F.T.: Those
tame manufactured horrors are easy to d 0....
C.S.H.: Not much use covering paper with
words unless you have something fresh or
forceful to say P.H.G.: Not a trace of
genius there, nor even good workmanship
A. 8.: Not enough in it to make even a par.
. ...E.R.: A bit too mechanical. Perhaps you
can oil it.... W.J.W.: The yarn is bright in
spots. See if you can make it a bit more
convincing R.V. \ A sprawling effort
M.L.8.: We’ve encountered that situation
many times before G.T.: It’s a poor year
that we don’t sling at least 20 Monte Carlo
stories out of the window P. 8.: “I do
hope it will not be necessary for you to use
the stamps which I enclose for return postage.”
A vain hope... .N.H.S.: Dan didn’t strike us
as being a bright and original jester M.G.:
We didn’t like the man who didn’t like cheese.
K.F.: The youths don’t ring true and the
yarn is merely third-rate slapstick comedy
E.R.R.: It has some merit, but arrived too
late to be of any use N.C.: Can’t say that
we were cross with “Don’t Be Cross,” but we
weren’t exactly pleased D.L.R.: One of
those borderline stories that perch on the
fence for a brief period then fall on the
wrong side P.S.C.: Dog story is hardly
worth a paragraph. Story about the copper
might have been written by a schoolboy
A. 8.: Gets nowhere... .Z.V.W.: Just another
old hatter not on speaking terms with his dog.
D.N.: Too slight for us D.R.S.; Has
some feeling. Try us with something stronger.
... .R.A.C.A.: Too much beating about the bush.
... .D.S.: Crude melodrama from start to
finish.... R.W.: It failed to cheer us up....
M.W.: When we first encountered that story
it was a par in an overseas digest. Your
elaborate treatment of the plot does not make
it original L.E.8.: We thought that it was
leading up to something exciting and all that
happened was that the young man fell over
and tore his pants J. 8.: It fell on rocky
ground M.G.M.: Has interest, but more
suited for the magazine pages of a daily
M.G.L. r Far too sentimental for our pages.
J.B.R.: Found nothing to laugh about in
“The Politician’s Picnic” D.T.; It never
got started A.J.P.: Lost count of the num-
ber of times we’ve heard similar travellers tell
similar yams C.H.M.: Send it to an English
magazine L.H.M.: The late Con Drew could
have done it better V.M.8.: Stock situation
and stereotyped characters R.McD.: Cattle-
duffing yarn carries much the same brand as
a hundred other cattle-duffing yarns E.L.8.:
Has points; try it elsewhere... .M.H.; Sorry,
Mark, but we couldn’t swallow that item
G.M.G.; The asthmatic burglar is now wheez-
ing in the basket... .HJ.McC.: No different
from the usual run of “Breaking of the
Drought” yarns we’ve been receiving for 67
years.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.H.S.: You seem to have a weird type
of humans in your part of the world
J.W.H.: Must have posted the wrong picture,
for the one received is not a “humorous draw-
ing”... .R.C.: Our amazed eyes got no further
than the damsel’s hands J.J.M.: It’s better
to use a pen than a poker P.L.: Can’t make
out whether faint pencil marks are a black-
and-white masterpiece or a bill from a Chinese
laundry E.A.: Some promise, but a good
way below the mark yet....A.N.A.: Red-ink
sketches on mauve-colored notepaper only lead
to bad language C.F.: You’ve got to
handle your pen with more confidence yet
D.H.F.; Figures too mixed up with the back-
ground R.L.D.: You won’t be making the
acquaintance of our accountant for a long
time to come T.W.: Promising, but line
a bit too hesitant yet K.K.: Scratchy sketch
and venerable gag A.S.: A frail little thing
which will be carefully packed off home
P.O’R.: Better learn something about drawing
for a start J.E.: You, too, will have to
learn to draw before guineas begin rolling your
way S.W.C.: Slight variation of a much
better picture in a recent Bulletin....
J.F.McD.; So you got 95 p.c. in your drawing
exams? Life is full of surprises, isn’t it?....
T.H.: Poorly done and not worth doing.
ARRIVAL IN WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND, FROM THE
ANTARCTIC, OF ADMIRAL BYRD'S FLAGSHIP, MOUNT
OLYMPUS, MARCH, 1947.
From the Antarctic
After a perilous trip
In Wellington arrived —
The famous flagship.
Creeds did welcome
The Admiral and crew
From far o’er the
Weltering billows blue—
Back from the land
Of ice and snow
Where died brave men
Long years ago.


The DUMB FELLOW
By
CECIL
MANN
HE came back from the wars with-
out his voice, and the doctors
said he would never speak again.
Well, they were right. He
never could. He was the same now as a
tree.
The sort of tree was a difference be-
tween him and the other dumb fellow
standing there under the overhead street
light—-the white statue in front of which
he waited for a little while to get out
Ms pocket-smoothed flat tobacco-tin and
start making a cigarette to smoke on the
short distance he still had to go home.
The statue was voiceless as a dead
tree is voiceless; a white, ringbarked,
stark dead tree: but he was as a live
tree is, with the sap running under the
brown bark and life in body and limbs.
At the foot of the wMte statue were a
few bunches of fading flowers; at his
own feet a couple of sugarbags, tied to-
gether at the necks with a short piece of
rope for carrying over Ms shoulder.
Both bags were lumpy and wet: one
with Ms saltwater-soaked old clothes; the
other with Ms share of the fish, including
the biggest one of all, which they had
insisted on Ms keeping, because he had
caught it himself, a distinction not made
with any of the rest of the catch.
That had been a brisk and odd scene
for a few minutes—dividing the fish
among them in the circle of street light
in front of the statue. It was the finale
of the night’s sport; the setting at that
spot because it was where, after the car-
run hack, they had to drop the Dumb
Fellow. The other four of them, being all
neaghboring small cockies, had to go on
another mile or two tMough beyond the
lown.
So they had all got out, lugged the
wet bags of fish from the car-boot, and
emptied them in a big heap on the torn
piece of canvas spread in front of the
statue. The fish made a grand sight in
the eyes of all of them. This was the
comedy turn, whether they enacted it
here, as they usually did on extra-chill
nights, or down on the salty grass above
the rocks at the sea. For light down
there at the headlands they had their
powerful gas-buming fishing-lamps ; old
headlamps of motor-bikes or cars, fitted
with a gas-jet and a rubber tube joined
to the carbide-cylinders fastened at their
belts. Formidable sorts of lights, but
they had to have them for their vigorous
kind of fishing; each of them armed with
one of those searchlight beams in one
hand and a short-handled scoop in the
other,
had been some talk about
1 whether their sort of fishing was legal.
They couldn’t see why it shouldn’t be.
“Hang it all, y’ can’t say the fish don’t
have a fair go! ”
No ; if the test should be on a sporting
basis, the fish they caught, even if they
did catch a lot, had nothing to complain
about. On the one night a month they
went down they’d get a bag like this lot
heaped in front of the statue, with the five
of them getting down on their knees in a
ring for the dividing-up. A good bag;
going on for a hundred nice-sized fish,
with the biggest catch of the night, the
big silver drummer the Dumb Fellow
caught, seeming to shoulder the mere two-
or three-pound lesser drummer, blackfish,
cod and bream off his back.
“Why shouldn’t it be legal, anyhow?”
they asked. “Spare th’ cook, y’ can’t
say th’ fish don’t get a break. An’ y’
can’t say we don’t risk breakin’ our
flamin’ necks gettin’ ’em!”
True enough, too. Where they had
been after the fish—they don’t say where
they go fishing—was down in the gap
between the two close jutting headlands.
The gap is filled with the black rocks
that have been falling down from one
headland or the other under the thumping
of the seas for the old earth knows how
many long centuries. When the tide is
dead out the rocks fill the gap, gleaming
black by day out to where the seas are
crashing, or shining black in the moon-
light.
Neither day nor moon is any good for
their sort of fishing in the gap; or for
any other sort, as far as that goes. The
drummer and especially the blackfish,
seen darting about in the water amongst
the rocks as the lights cut down to them,
seem plentiful enough, but they are poor
biters, as those lonely souls, the rarely
seen rock-hopping rodmen, have always
found, getting- only a very stray one or
two, more likely none, for hours of dang-
ling the bait down amongst them. And,
of course, a net is right out of the question
in that rushing surge and swirl of water
pounding in through the black rocks.
NO; the only way to get fish out of
that place is to get down in amongst
them on a falling half-tide; holding a
footing against the surge, nearly up to the
waist. Sharpen the strong light-beam
down through the water on to them, and
be qyick enough with the scoop to beat
their darting past.
“They reckon she’s not legal. ’Strewth,
they oughter give it a fly!”
They—that is, the supposed snooping
representatives of officialdom would
probably not care much for it, and not
be very good at it, either.
“They’re only soapy white - collar
gazobs, anyhow.”.
If so, one night of it would put them
in bed with the shivers for a month, if
they didn’t lose their kneecaps or break
their necks slipping on the slimy rocks.
They’d probably try it in sandshoes ; then
they’d slip and crack their necks for a
moral. Solid heavy working-boots are
the things, and the oldest sort of duds
about the place.
“Take a change of duds, too. She’s
perishin’ cold cornin’ up th’ road in the
old car along th’ riverbank flats, an’ wet
to th’ marrer. Hell, she does get cold.”
Worth it, though, for a good catch,
like the one the five were grouped round
on their knees for their it could be
called their ritual, way of dividing them
up.
“He,” one of them said, “takes th’
silver drummer.” As the Dumb Fellow
shook his head, he insisted: “That’s a
fair go, ain’t it, Jim?”
“ ’Course it is,” Jim seconded. “Go' on,
you gotter take him. What a beaut!
I bet a quid he goes fifteen pound.”
“He’s th’ biggest we ever got, ain’t
he, Bill?” another fairly shouted, as Jim
held th© big fish up by the tail.
“Bigger’n that spotted cod we got time
before last,” Bill agreed.
The Dumb Fellow shqpk his head: it
was Bill who had caught the spotted cod.
“ ’Course he is! ” that denier of glory
shouted. “You wait till y’ get him on
th’ scales. Th’ cod went thirteen an’ a
half. I’ll betcha a quid this bloke goes
th’ best part of eighteen pound.”
“Right-oh, we’re aIJL set then,” Jim
announced, passing the big fish to the
Dumb Fellow. “He’s yours, and you’re
startin’ it with him. Away we go.”
THE ritual started promptly; the one
on the Dumb Fellow’s right grabbed
the biggest fish he could see, laughing
and shouting “One!” as he threw it into
his open sugarbag. Each in turn, going
round to the right, also grabbed the
biggest he could see, shouting “One!”
as he took it. They were all laughing;
enjoying acting their burlesque of mock
modesty.
In his turn, the Dumb Fellow, grinning,
also grabbed, starting the next round by
slapping his left hand on the canvas. The
rest in turn called “Two /” They kept the
burlesque going ; th© fish getting smaller.
At the last round there were four left.
The Dumb Fellow threw out his hands
in a gesture of giving them away, and the
others —“0.K., he’s got th’ big ’un!”—
took one each.
“Not too bad for a night’s work,” Jim
said, as they straightened up, feeling the
weight of their bags
“An’ will I hit that bunk!” the one
called Bill said, with emphasis, making
for the car. “Come on, you blokes.
Thank God she’s Sunday tomorrer.”
“Still gotter clean ’em,” an-
other put in, fishing for a bite.
Bill rose to it: “Aw, leave th’
cows till tomorrer.”
“Not the blackfish though, but.”
“No, cripes,” Jim pronounced
with authority. “Y’ don’t wanner
leave them. Y’ want to skin ’em
an’ gut ’em an’ fillet ’em, an’ y’
can have all th’ rest of th’ fish
in th’ sea for mine. There ain’t
a better fish in th’ ‘sea than blackfish. But
y’ want to skin ’em an’ gut ’em an’ fillet
’em or they taste lousy.”
“Go sorter soft.”
“Yair. An’ taste like flamin’ seaweed.
But if y’ skin ’em an’ gut ’em an’ fillet
’em they’re bonzer.”
“0.K.,” Bill roared out from the car.
“Are y’ goin’ to skin ’em an’ gut ’em an’
fillet ’em all flamin’ night? Come on, f’r
Gawd’s sake. I’m startin’ to do a flamin’
perish.”
“Right-oh, cornin’, sir. He wants to get
home to mumma.”
They shouted good-nights to the Dumb
Fellow, and after some grinding and
spluttering of the engine they were on
their way.
| T left the two dumb fellows together
I under the street light; no one else in
the length of the street at that midnight
hour; and the two of them unaware of
the presence of each other.
The one on the pedestal—with all due
respect for the feeling and thought that
put him there —a comic figure, really;
especially in comparison with the earthy
figure of the living one taking his time
making his thick cigarette, lighting it,
and still standing there enjoying the smoke
and his grand thoughts of being on the
rock holding up the drummer.
There was nothing earthy or living
about the white block of a figure on the
pedestal, with the fading flowers at his
feet. He was a dumb fellow in every
sense of the word, standing there in the
rather crude shape of a dumpy-looking
soldier of the other, old war; supposed
to be a memorial of it. Actually eloquent
of nothing, unless it might be of the
factory that turned him out or the taste
that put him up, where he would have
flowers laid at his feet.
The whiteness a convention in the
memorialising of the war dead, like his
standing with hands crossed on reversed
rifle in front of him. Supposed to be
symbolical. As if those superb, living,
leaping, unleashed furies, given back to
the earth where they fell, in the tom and
stained clothes they wore, were to be
eternalised in a sheeted stage ghost; as
if the god of their heroic grandeur had
sold them over the river for a bucket of
whitewash.
So he stands, there; a dumpy-looking
figure of a soldier in the old puttee-legged
uniform ; incredibly straight in the back ;
incredibly at solemn attention ; incredibly
vacant of any expression; woodenly
dumb; with the crowning absurdity of a
cocked-up, dentless, rookie-looking hat.
Like a white, ringbarked dead tree.
And yet even a dead white tree standing
in a paddock or*on the side qf a hill might
be eloquent of something, it it is only
loneliness; if it is only the lonesomeness
of the selection women, one of whom —
incredibly, even she, looking over her now
skinny body, might perhaps think-
mothered the other Dumb Fellow; the
one in the ring of th© street light, with
his back to the statue, and the tied bags
at his feet.
So even the white figure on the statue
might, in a far-fetched way, a comic
way, be regarded as eloquent. In any
case, a useful statue; which most statues
are not. They might even have had that
in mind, partly, when they put him where
they did, in the centre of the crossroads at
the end of the main street. There he at
least serves as a silent cop. The buses and
cars and the rest of the traffic have tc
turn round him. They don’t look at him ;
they don’t really know he is there.
Even those who like his other use, as
a meeting-place—“ See you by the statue”
—even these don’t see him. They know
he’s there, but that’s all. Just as —and no
more than —they know a lot of chaps
went away to the war, and that those who
came back got into their other ordinary
sort of clothes again, and once more were
just part of the rest, part of the place ; on
their farms or on whatever work they
went in for.
In this rather far-fetched way of look-
ing at it, the figure on the pedestal might
be held to represent all that well enough,
simply by not being eloquent. Why, the
Dumb Fellow there with his bag of fish,
with the big tail of the silver drummer
thrust out the top, and his other bag of
wet clothes tied to it—who would say to
look at him now that he had ever so
much as even heard of a war? Let alone
been to the war, killed men with his
big hands thrusting the old Shakspearean
issue of three inches of steel, and been
finished with a piece through his own
throat. Who could know of that, looking
at him in the old working clothes that
gave no sign of it?
What was hfc, for his part, eloquent of,
except hard, earthy toil in the open?
Toil with those big hands of his; ordinary
hard bush yakker, or working on the
roads, as he was now for the Council.
At least the statue could be held as elo-
quent as he about the odd* happening of
all those who, from being just like he
was now, suddenly became soldiers, got
uniforms on, went away, and either stayed
there or, as he did, came back, to be
suddenly again like himself now, just an
ordinary, undistinguished member of
the community, like any other.
SOME nights, when the town lights
fail, the one up on the pedestal might
relax a bit from his stiff pose and stand
ea§y for a while. Then, if he were capable
of thinking, he might think it odd that
what he’s so glumly supposed to repre-
sent could ever have been at all. Not in
the tradition; not in the character of the
land, apparently. Just nothing. Just
start the right sort of call going, throw
uniforms at ’e/n, give ’em a rough bit
of drill, and there you have ’em. Fighters.
Like those fish; as good as you’d get a
taste of anywhere. And now all of them,
like the Dumb Fellow with his bags,
nothing of any of that at all. As un-
spectacular, as commonplace, as plain
ordinary as you could set eyes on any-
where.
Yet—even leaving what he had been at
the wars out of it —the Dumb Fellow
wasn’t like that as recently as a mere
hour or so ago. At the moment he caught
the big silver drummer.
If drummer itself could have conjured
up anything it would have been only
something very vague. Something of
drummers mentioned in songs or painted
in pictures: very old stuff, really; and
comic. But you don’t think about any
other sort of drummers when you have
a whopping big fish called a silver
drummer with its tail thrust out of the
bag. Otherwise silver drummer might
have a lot of meaning. It could be elo-
quent not of such things as parades, and
men marching to the music of bands, but
of such a recollection, with its own gfim
touch of the comic in it, as that night they
brought the Fritz plane down, or again,
with nothing of the comic in it at all, that
other night the Scotties buried their dead.
But who’d think of those things? Not
with the four standing up to their waists
in the water surging and frothing about
them in the black rocks. All of them
yelling out: “Hang on to him, boy! Hell,
what a beaut! What a flamin’ hum-
dinger! How did y’ hold him? Whop
him inter th’ bag, boy! Look out, he’ll
get away!”
As if the big fish, for all its turning and
lashing in the air, had any hope of get-
ting away from that hand gripped into
its gills. The Dumb Fellow standing on
the rock he’d clambered on to ; holding
the flashing great fish aloft in the beams
of their four searchlights flooded up on
to him. All five of them soaked through ;
all of them at the peak of the night’s ex-
citement. Knowing nothing about being
wet or cold; nothing about the black
night all around them ; or the sea brood-
ing out in the dark; the inrush surging
through; the smell of the salt and sea-
weed ; the starry night, without a moon,
above them; there in the darker dark-
ness of the black shadows thrown by the
lumpy headlands rising sheer on each
side of them.
ALL four in the wafer shouting up to-
gether about the big fish; holding it
caught in the beams of their converging
lights; so that all that could be seen was
the figure of the Dumb Fellow, huge
above them on his black rock, the water
surging alive at his feet, the big fish
lashing alive in his grip. The Dumb
o Continued on page 40.)


More than
ever before
mm
Time means money
\. s
Cv
a
■*m
m
i :
Ws.
S^soc;
PS
"IZ~— w ~~—
'• *J ,-aL
,-v—"""
A Steelbiit Survey supplies
the answer to more productive hours in your business
Factory, plant, warehouse or retail store ... get
the facts on modern methods of handling and
storing tools, goods and materials in production.
Know beforehand just how a Steelbilt installation
in the form of time-savings, labor-savings and
floorspace-savings can open the way to increased
production in your business.
Only when this meticulous Steelbilt Survey is
completed is a detailed recommendation made.
STEELBILT STANDARDISED SHELVING is
mechanically adjustable . . . adaptable to all
methods of storage.
Engineered down to the minutest detail every
Steelbilt unit is precision built for reliable and
continuous service.
LIMITED
(A Wormald Brothers Industry) SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Represented elsewhere in Australia and New Zealand by
Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd.
lockers
CUPBOARDS
r
• PLAN CABINETS •
LIBRARY SHELVING • WASTE PAPER BINS • FILING CABINETS
ST4


HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos 4
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT*
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Siaoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured,
Quickest Mail Order in
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Safeguard the future
. . . of your family
... by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he has these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and combine the first-hand personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way,
"Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager:
C. N. P. Whittle
LOOK!
The "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
Beehive Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
Immediate
Delivery.
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
cluding saw and planer
blades, £l7/10/-. Also
woodturning; lathe outfit,
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
liln. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, does
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States.
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. INVOLVEMENT IN PALESTINE.
U.N.O.’s partition scheme for Palestine
—cause of the present sporadic Arab re-
sistance and the larger-scale resistance
now being organised, with the probability
of war—was here described in detail (B.
1/10/’47), with other articles (B.
22/10/’47) and earlier. A most in-
teresting feature now is the American
involvement.
With America and Russia (and Aus-
tralia) agreeing, but Britain standing out,
U.N.O. made its decision in the face of
the most emphatic Arab warnings that
partition would mean war. Neither
U.N.O. nor America can later say there
was any doubt left on that score. Yet it
appears certain that the decision was
reached very largely on the assumption
that the Arabs would never fight as they
threatened; that they were merely
bluffing.
That assumption was freely fed by the
American press, giying signs in this —as
in regard to Palestine all along—of be-
lieving what it wanted to believe, and
what it wanted others to believe. With
extremely rare exceptions—in fact, the
“Christian Science Monitor” is about the
only one in dozens of U.S. publications
examined—American newspapers could
be shown as practically unanimously
supporting the N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
comment on the Arab warnings: “The
Arabs are making what is today a bluff.”
Former U.S. Under Secretary of State
Sumner Welles added his voice to that
general chorus: “The threats of such
Arab leaders as Mr. Khoury, of Syria,
and Jamal-el-Husseini, that the Arabs
will drench the Holy Land in blood in
‘the sacred right of self-defence,’ are
arrant bluster and need not be taken too
seriously.”
As would be expected, the chorus in-
cluded, too, cohorts of “famous corre-
spondents” ; George L, Cassidy, Frank
Gervasi and others figuring in one batch
described by N. Y. “World-Telegram”
as a “group of experts.” A statement
issued by this batch while U.N.O.’s de-
cision was in doubt can be added as
another merely typical example;
The Arab threats are mere bluff. When
Hitler threatened the world he had a powerful
Wehrmacht to back up his threats. When the
Husseinis of Palestine or Azzam Bey of the
Arab League imitate Hitler they have behind
them an utterly disunited group of Arab peoples
with no armies, no navy, no equipment, no
industrial potential and no know-how in modern
warfare.
“Arabs’ Dangerous Mood”
While joining’the chorus of the “bluff”
theme —the happy assumption on which
U.N.O-. did its cheerful sowing—N, Y.
“Herald Tribune” allowed the possibility
that what it held to be “bluff” now might
develop into something different to-
morrow': “Passions and propaganda are
reaching the point where, without firm
and definitive solutions, blood may really
run one day in tragic fashion.” The
Arab stand is that the blood will run
precisely because of the “definitive solu-
tions” advocated,
“The Arabs,” London “Times” ac-
curately reported before the U.N.O. de-
cision, “are in a dangerous mood. To
dissuade them from precipitate action is
a grave problem for the United Nations.”
Also breaking into the more popular
chorus, a group claiming to be “private
American citizens who have had long
and close contacts with the Middle East”
had a long statement published in N. Y,
“Times” in which, declaring that the re-
sult of partition would be “armed con-
flict,” they dealt with possible develop-
ments and the effect on U.S; business and
prestige;
Even though many cautious and conservative
officials in the Arab States may hesitate to
send their armed forces and to take part in the
conflict at the start, we believe that it will
not be long before radical political and ecclesi-
astical leaders and the highly patriotic youth
will oblige an all-out participation in a war
against what they conceive to be aggressive
Jewry,
Massacres of Jews will occur in outlying dis-
tricts of Palestine and possibly also in Irak,
where there are 125,000 entirely defenceless
Jews and where Arab townsmen as well as
Bedouins are always ready to raid. Even though
a Jewish army or a United Nations force may
protect certain groups of Jews, others will be
in danger.
If the United States continues to take a
leading part in bringing about partition [as
it has done] our present American position
of merited prestige will be wrecked, and
sanctions will undoubtedly be taken against
American institutions and business firms. The
goodwill felt for us will disappear.
It is also true that if the Russian approval
of the partition of Palestine is endorsed by
the United Nations [as it was], a precedent
of ready application will be formed for the
emancipating of other Near Eastern minority
groups, particularly those located on the borders
of Russia.
If Jewish aspirations in Palestine lead to
violence and interference with American busi-
ness, and even with American educational
activities in the Middle East, this collapse of
American prestige is sure to have an un-
wholesome reaction* in America and to .stimu-
late anti-Semitism within the United States.
Even though the United Nations may be
able to maintain a large international force
m Palestine, so as to reduce hostilities to a
minimum during the next 10 years, the par-
tition of Palestine will fertilise the soil for
another world war in the more distant future.
The spirit of the Crusades will be revived again
and it is inevitable that there will be a slow
but sure lining-up of the people of Western
Asia against the people of Europe and America.
U.S. “Embarrassed”
The American involvement, in its busi-
ness and other aspects, was raised in a
direct question put to the Haj Amin El-
Husseini, exiled Mufti of Jerusalem, by
a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” correspondent
interviewing him. “If the American
Government continues to support Zion-
ism,” the correspondent asked, “will the
Arabs oppose American oil interests in
the Middle East and will British interests
suffer the same fate?” “The Arabs have
repeatedly declared,” said the Mufti,
“that they will resist aggression by all
means at their disposal. With this end
in view they are determined to sacrifice
both life and property, physically and
economically.”
To the further question “Will the
Arabs fight in Palestine if international
police take over from Britain?” the Mufti
answered: “The Arabs are unwaveringly
determined to defend all the country
from any aggression, irrespective whence
it comes.”
That the U.S. is uncomfortable about
its involvement and the Arab stand—
“ Like the boy who grabbed a bear by
its tail, the United States now finds itself
becomingly increasingly embarrassed,”
comments a “Christian Science Monitor”
U.N.O. correspondent—was most plainly
shown when, on November 19, Assistant
Secretary of State Norman Armour was
put up to speak a most definitely ap-
peasement piece. “Mr. Armour,” N. Y.
“Times” reported, “speaking in place of
Secretary of State Marshall, pleaded for
continuance of Arab-American friend-
ship, in spite of the United States’ sup-
port of partition,” The report quoted
Mr. Armour: —•
“Those in Washington who have to do with
the formulation of American foreign policy
would count it a tragic, even disastrous loss
were the foundations of Arab-American
friendship to be affected as a result of diver-
gency of views on this immensely moving
problem of the future of our common Holy
Land.”
“I can’t emphasise too strongly,” Mr.
Armour continued, “that the position which
the Government of the United States has taken
■vyith regard to Palestine does not indicate a
lack of friendship or consideration for the Arab
world.”
Mr. Armour declared that the United States,
as much as any other country, welcomed the
Arab States to full and equal membership in
the United Nations.
„ *We stand pow as in the past,” he added,
ready to co-operate with those States in
realising the great projects so ably conceived
by the leaders of their renaissance.”
“This statement,” the report com-
mented, “was interpreted as a hint that
the United States might lend financial
and technical assistance to the Middle
Eastern countries for construction of
irrigation and reclamation developments.
Mr. Armour made no specific promises,
but informed American officials said the
United States might support Arab appli-
cations to the World Bank for such pur-
poses.” It can be said safely enough, on
such an open bid, that there would be no
might about such support. Whether the
N.Y. "Daily News."
TIME TO LET GO.
[How does an Eagle shape with a porcupine?]
S |w Ca rff be b . ought that wa Y 1S an
ntirely different question.
Arab UNO “I
SirthVr'nn th i
and Doss bhf mvol yement,
Sj°? si bt e Arab countering, a Chris-
porteTfrom Genera^T 0 " 11
Lake SucceTs- - ° Assemb| y at
&sura itt
In effect the iicitro +u tt a
in enect, tne Arabs nave told the United
States that henceforth they will align themselves
with Russia on every important issue in the
United Nations unless Secretary of State George
C. Marshall and his colleagues speak out fn
opposition to the proposed partition of Palestine
[There was no such “speaking out.”] ‘
To put it bluntly, the United States can ill
afford to permit the Arabs to cast their diplo-
matic lot with the Russians inasmuch as such
an alliance not only would greatly strengthen
the Soviet voting power both in the Assembly
and the Security Council, but conceivably might
add to the threat of peace and security in the
Middle East.
The Arab ultimatum, it is learned on good
authority, was delivered to the United States
delegation, and it figuratively set this country’s
representatives at Lake Success back on their
heels.
The Russians, meanwhile, are making bolder
and bolder overtures to the Arabs and are
receiving an increasing number of coy glances
in return.
One thing that has disturbed the American
delegation particularly in this new turn of
events is the fact that the Arab emissary dele-
gated to deliver the ultimatum was none other
than Prince Feisal of Saudi Arabia.
Of all the countries in the Arab bloc, Saudi
Arabia generally has been assumed to be on
the .most friendly terms with the United States.
Because of extensive American oil holdings in
King Ibn Saud’s domain, it has been felt that
the United States, if it were so inclined, could
bring sufficient pressure to bear on Saudi Arabia
to break the solid Arab front on the Palestine
issue.
If the Arab ultimatum means what it says,
such a possibility does not exist.
Large U.S. Responsibility
Declaring that “the United States has
accepted a much larger responsibility
than appears on the surface in approving
United Nations action to partition Pales-
tine” and that the American statement to
the General Assembly “minimised, for
perhaps understandable reasons, the full
responsibility which the [U.S.] Govern-
ment is assuming,” another “Christian
Science Monitor” corresnnndpnt tin
Washin 8 ton ) ha s dealt further with Unde
Sam's rather reluctant involvement: -
SSSH
tke U.N. as without determination or power
to deal with resistance to its muiii y
resistance to its will.
b n ! neans tbat > however gmgerly the Ameri-
ttll-* Pa^®ati ne statement skirted the issue, the
F ni . ted States rs faced with the possibility of
havi P g to use force against Arab resistance to
P a ™ tlon -
T u 1S per^ctl 7 tr . ue tbat when Herschel V.
Jenson read the American declaration to the
U " JN ; s , 57 " natl0n Palestine Committee, he was
ca " e L ful t 0 say: ~
, That th e United States agreed only to help
the , Umted Nations preserve “internal law and
? rd ? r ’ d unng the setting up of the Arab and
Jewish States.
That Britain was_ obligated [a view Britain
Tejec Ls very flatly indeed] to continue ruling
Palestine until the U.N. undertakes “to assume
responsibility.”
That a “special police force ‘should’ be
recruited on a voluntary basis by the United


d
pALATO
QMfRESH °A4V Ci
Sc HWEPPIS^
PALATO
MADE FROM FRESH ORANGES
'in
w
\ \ \
/ ; /
\ \ \
Y
i II !! >
W,
Is
H
*
D
t
miSs
05
\
BY
Schweppes
Nations” to deal with any outside resistance
[from the neighboring Arab countries] to
carrying out the U.N. programme.
Now, all that is very nice and very correct,
and it may all work out smoothly that way.
But Washington officials know, even if they are
not saying so very loudly, that there is danger
—indeed, there are open threats —of the Use
of violence by the Arab countries to prevent
the U.N. from carrying out its plan.
For the United States to say that it has
only agreed to help maintain “internal law and
order” and to have advocated a volunteer police
force to counter Arab resistance does not dilute
or divert one bit the responsibility it faces if
the U.N.’s authority is forcibly flouted by the
Arab League States Egypt, Saudi Arabia,
Yemen, Syria, Lebanon and Irak, all members
of the U.N., and one U.N. applicant, Trans-
jordan.
Britain Getting Out
The British, for their part, might well
be excused if they look on Uncle Sam’s
embarrassment on this issue as a slightly
compensating turn of poetic justice. When
a newspaper claiming the status of re-
sponsible journalism that belongs on
pretty well all other issues to N.Y.
“Times” can, on the Palestine issue, refer
editorially to the “cold, blind and un-
compromising British officialdom” be-
cause the contingent of American-aided
illegal Jewish migrants was taken back
to Germany, the British might fairly be
allowed the satisfaction of now “watch-
ing fly do it.”
That N.Y. “Times” comment is, qf
course, mild and polite compared with
U.S.-published incitement of Jewish ter-
rorists to keep up the gpod work of
murdering British sergeants. The latest
American mails, covering the final
U.N.O. discussions on the partition plan'
adopted, still run to large anti-British
advts. of the American League for a Free
Palestine, of which one small extract will
be sample enough:
Britain is iterating and reiterating that she
is vacating our pountry.
Britain is continuing to bluff.
It is undeniable that Nazi-Britain is no
longer capable of continuing her direct rule
in Eretz Israel. Her rule here has gone bank-
rupt, for everyone to see, thanks to the
her'oic Hebrew resistance. But while the enslav-
ers are prepared to leave the country openly,
they are meanwhile laying their plans to stay
put, undercover.
Britain is striving for creation of a British-
Quisling Government in our country.
Britain knows that the United Nations does
not command any separate military force. She
also knows that given the present relations
among nations, the U.N. is not capable of
creating such an international army for Eretz
Israel. Britain assumes, therefore, that the
majority of the United Nations, confronted
by an impasse, will decide to turn to Britain
with the request that she continue her rule
in Eretz Israel until such time as a “solution
that necessitates no force” is found, that is, a
“solution” agreed upon with the Effendis —a
“solution” which Britain wants.
It is possible that, to fool the world, Britain
will indeed withdraw several units of her troops
from Eretz Israel. They will be withdrawn with
much pomp. But their withdrawal will have
no connection whatsoever with the British Gov-
ernment’s “Palestine Plan.’-’ Their withdrawal
will be carried out in conformance with, the
overall strategic plans decided upon in London
in the light of the enslavers’ economic and
international position. *
The fact is that Britain is getting out
as fast as it can, leaving Uncle Sam and
others who, as noted editorially by the
“Christian Science Monitor,” “have been
counting too heavily on Britain to bear
the brunt of the transition in Palestine,”
to now make what they can of it. What
Uncle Sam makes of it will be watched
with special interest in Britain, particu-
larly in the light of a U.S. Gallup poll,
which, on the question of the adopted
partition scheme, found 65 per cent, in
favor and only 10 per cent, against it,
but on the question of whether U.S. or
U.N.O. troops should be used to hold
the ring found 65 per cent, in favor of a
U.N.O. “volunteer army” and a whole
three per cent, in favor of U.S. troops
doing the job the British have done to
the tune of tinpan abuse.
HIROHITO.
Commenting on the Jap war-crimes
trials as still dragging on “in an atmo-
sphere of almost monumental indiffer-
ence,” N. Y. “Times” sees that indifference
as resulting from the fact that, while com-
parative “pawns” are being tried, “we
have ribt only spared the head in which
all those forces found their focal point
and from which they derived their
strength—namely, Emperor Hirohito —
but also united with the Japanese to
strengthen his position.”
The testimony of Hirohito’s closest
adviser before and during the war, Mar-
quis Koichi Kido, has made plain “what
has always been known in informed
quarters—namely, that Emperor Hirohito
was by no means the ‘bumbling, ineffec-
tual ruler,’ or the ignorant and innocent
puppet, that he has sometimes been repre-
sented, but rather a knowing and active,
if weak and timid, participant in Japan’s
military adventures, from the conquest of
Manchuria in 1931 to the end of the war.
He followed every move in Japanese
aggression and gave it his Imperial bless-
ing. He took the initiative three months
before Pearl Harbor in requesting the
preparation of an Imperial rescript order-
ing the opening of hostilities. Only when
the war began to turn against Japan did
he urge the search for a ‘negotiated’
peace, though even then he did nothing
to bring it about until collapse was in
sight.”
N. Y. “Times” will not have it that his
co-operation with MacArthur in facilitat-
ing the occupation and enforcing reforms
redeems Hirohito: “If collaboration has
not brought immunity for others there is
no reason why it should do so for an
Emperor.”
Prescription: “Emperor Hirohito
himself can render a last service to justice
and to his country He can abdicate in
token that all who guided Japan to her
disaster have lacked in ‘virtue’ and must
pay at least some penalty. And he can
thereby permit his country to wipe the
slate clean and start afresh under a new
Emperor who would not only be unem-
cumbered by the past, but would be a
living repudiation of that past and all its
guilt.”
J. BULL GOING STRONG.
Debunking the over-publicised notion
that Britain’s present troubles mean that
J. Bull is a goner, Major-General David
P. Barrows, formerly president of the
University of California and these days
a regular Hearst’s writer, sees a stronger
J.B. rising from the ruins:
Dominion status means membership in the
most successful union of widely-separated States
that history has seen. It means security of
property and human rights. It means the pre-
dominance of just laws. It has meant in the
past a source of loans which undeveloped
countries require. For much more than a
century London was the centre of such finan-
cial transactions.
At present it may not be possible to borrow
freely in London, bait I venture the prediction
that, within a relatively short time, the British
will be saving money and investing it again all
over the world. This, of course, is dependent
upon the future security of such investments
and upon the defeat of the Communist doctrine
that demands repudiation and confiscation.
If we turn from India and look at the rest
of the British Empire we may be surprised to
see how vast it still is and how likely it is
to remain under the British flag. Some of
it already has become largely self-governing,
but in much of it the populations are too
undeveloped socially to be capable of self-
government or to desire greater political in-
dependence than they now have.
This is particularly true of the continent of
Africa, where the British possessions are enor-
mous and where they enjoy a steadily rising
prosperity. The cession of India makes the
African colonies the new centre of the British
Empire. These colonies are situated on both
Western and Eastern coasts of the continent.
These coasts are different culturally. The West
Coast was long connected through the slave trade
with the Americas. The East Coast is histori-
cally connected with Arabia and with India,
and both Arabians and Hindus constitute im-
portant elements in its population.
It is to this eastern part of Africa that
British interest is now turning —to Kenya
Colony, the Uganda Protectorate, and the Man-
dated Territory of Tanganyika. This widespread
block of territories connects through Rhodesia
with the Union of South Africa. Here are vast
tracts of fertile territory that await development.
In the course of last summer the British
Parliament passed two or more statutes pro-
viding for colonial development on new lines
and to an extent not heretofore attempted.
A British Empire of great possibilities seems
to be emerging in the highlands of Africa over-
looking the Indian Ocean. It does not look
as though the British genius for colonial de-
velopment has expired.
HOW ATOM ACTS.
In his book Bombs on Bikini, Dr.
William A. Shurcliff, who was technical
historian for the tests, points out that the
full results could only be measured over
the many months of study since given by
the experts. Hence, anyone who felt that
the Bikini tests didn’t come up to ex-
pectations would be thinking on the
wrong lines.
In Dr. Shurcliff s view, the tests proved
plenty concerning the bomb’s horrific
action:
An airburst atomic bomb shatters by its
shock wave, burns by its thermal radiation,
blinds by its brilliance and kills by its nuclear
radiations. An explosion under water crushes
underwater objects by its shock wave, shatters
above-water objects by its blast wave in air,
obliterates with its column, fatally shrouds
by its base surge, capsizes by its 100 ft. breakers,
kills by its fast-acting fission products, and
for weeks or months ambushes by its slow-
acting fission products.-
“Any one of these blows,” comments
Dr. Shurcliff, “makes the atomic bomb
a supreme instrument of destruction.
Collectively, they make it intolerable.”
But, while it’s known that the bomb
can produce death and destruction over
one or more square miles, “Do we know,”
the writer questions, “what its psycho-
logical effects would be? Can anyone
guess what paralysis or fear might seize
populations struck by several bombs set
off simultaneously? How does a mass
people behave when individuals, appar-
ently unharmed, suspect they have re-
ceived fatal doses of gamma radiation?”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Labor Pickets a Wedding. —As one sort of
reprisal against the Taft-Hartley Act, which
enforces controls on labor unions in the U.S.,
unions picketed the marriage ceremony of
Senator Taft’s son in a Detroit suburban church.
The Senator’s comment: “They were just
trying to make sure there would he no more
Tafts.”
* * * *
Britain’s Dollar War-cost. —Formerly a lead-
ing member of Britain’s financial team in
Washington, economist D. McCurragh gave a
British Association audience a neat nutshell
summing of Britain’s war-time financial sacri-
fices in the dollar sphere. He declared that
the total of the British nation’s “treasure and
effort realisable for dollars going into the war
chest” amounted to more than $10,000,000,000.
Deducting a tenth of that as “windfall” dollars
brought in by the spending of United States
troops in Britain, the total dollar cost of the
war to Britain, he said, would have financed
16 years of imports from the United States at
the 1938 level, even if Britain had no exports
or other dollar income whatever. The cost
was 15 times British drawings on the American
loan in 1946, without making adjustment for
increased prices.
* * * *
Mr. Truman in Jail. —Describing the White
House as “the finest jail in the world,” Mr.
Truman told a group visiting him that “every
President is a prisoner from the moment he
takes up residence at 1600 Pennsylvania
Avenue” and “a President with no sense of
humor is in a bad fix.” To illustrate the
point, he recalled how he had watched from
one of the south windows of the White House
what looked a clinking game of baseball. The
game looked so good that he got two or three
secret-service agents to escort him across the
street from the White House south garden so
that he could watch better through the wire
backstop behind the catcher. “Within five
minutes,” the President sadly recalled, “the
game broke up so that all the players could
come and look at me through the backstop.”
sfc * * *
Soviet Atom Claims. Describing Soviet
claims to have the atom bomb as merely a
ruse to try to get technical information, former
U.S. delegate to the U.N.O. Atomic Com-
mission John M. Hancock stated: “They would
like us to tell them at what amount a chain
reaction sets in. If they found out it might
save a lot of lives in experiment. We know
that beyond dispute it’s a lie. It’s a trick
reporters are well aware of—when they want
information they make a charge and get you
to deny it. In denying it you tell them what
they want to know.” Hancock said American
experts, in discussing the report, were very
careful not to indicate whether the size of the
purported first bomb, 12jdb., which the “Soviet
scientists” were said to have exploded in
Siberia, was too large or too small. “This
can be said: when they say 12£ pounds, it’s
an obvious lie,” he declared, adding: “If we,
with our bomb, propose to give it up for a
paper prdmise, then we’re bigger suckers than
I think we are.” He further stated that the
U.S. was going to make “all the bombs” it
can, since there was nothing at present to
“rely on in the world except cold, naked brute
force” and the only thing was to “have
more bombs stockpiled than any other nation.”
* * * *
Economics of Longer Skirts. —The fashion
of having skirts a bit longer started, says
“United States News,” when an analysis of
women’s-dress sales showed a drop of 22 per
cent, below last year, “the rising cost of living
altering Americans’ spending habits, the clothing
budget getting a smaller part of the family
budget.” Having to find “a different way
to entice sales,” a change of styles was the
answer. “Dressmakers and designers say
women will bow to the inevitable and adopt the
longer skirts, even though it takes 250,000,000
more yajds of cloth a year to make them.”
$ afc jje ale
Countering Soviet Policy. Subscribing, in
a “Foreign Affairs” article, to the view that
“Soviet intransigence is based in very large
part on the hope and belief that all non-
Communist systems are doomed,” and stating
that “Soviet policy aims to help them die,”
former U.S. Secretary of War Stimson offers
as a countering prescription: “We must make
it wholly evident that a non-aggressive Russia
will have nothing to fear from us. We must
make it clear, too, that the Western non-
Communist world is going to survive in grow-
ing economic and political stability. If we can
do this, then slowly—but perhaps less slowly
than we now believe —the Russian leaders may
either change their minds or lose their jobs.”
* * * *
City of Millionaires. —“If you’re not a mil-
lionaire in Shanghai,’’ declares a “World
Report” correspondent, “you’re almost dead
broke.” With inflation gone mad, “it is almost
impossible to get by on less than a million
dollars [Chinese] a day.” The correspondent
tallies up his expenses for one day as an ex-
ample: “I bought my morning newspaper for
$3OOO and then paid $20,000 for breakfast
consisting of eggs, toast and coffee. Cab fare
to the- American Consulate General accounted
for another $20,000. Lunch, good but not
exceptional, took a $120,000 slice of my bank
roll. The tip alone was $5OO0 —and the waiter
wasn’t too happy about it. Another $50,000
for a shave and haircut. Cocktails accounted
for still another $lOO,OOO, and this evening I
laid out a cool $BOO,OOO for dinner for a friend
and myself.” Cartage cost for the roll itself
should come to a fair bit.
* * * *
Great Show, U.N.O. —It mightn’t have done
much else (apart from, say, planting the seeds
of war in Palestine, and suchlike little services),
but, according to “Life,” the recent session
of the U.N.O. General Assembly was at least
a complete success in the theatre sense: it drew
capacity houses. For the opening day more
than 10,000 tried to get in (there are for the
public 600 seats), and every day thereafter the
show was packed: “The crowds did not come
only to listen, for except in the case of such
fireworks as Marshall and Vyshinsky provided
the proceedings were frequently dull and long-
winded. They usually came to watch what has
become one of the most colorful assemblages
of all time. The endless variety of native
costumes, of faces and expressions from all the
corners of the earth provide a show such as
few people have ever been privileged to see.”
For all the colorful opposition, “Life” reckons
Eleanor Roosevelt stole the show: “When she
merely rose to nominate a committee chairman,
the applause from all over the hall was deafen-
ing.”
* * * *
Spain Unworried by U.N.O. —In advance of
the further U.N.O. futility on Spain, a Hearst’s
correspondent in Madrid accurately forecast that
Poland, as a Soviet satellite State, would try to
get the Assembly to have a shot at shifting
Franco. Reason for the forecast: “Spain can
be a bastion for America in the event of war
with Soviet Russia.” As it turned out, the U.S.
would have nothing to do with U.N.O. inter-
ference. Franco and all Spain, the correspon-
dent reported, were losing no sleep over U.N.0.,
anyway: “Franco is,merely holding Spain steady
with a firm hand while the storm of Com-
munism and political confusion threatening
economic disaster is sweeping Europe. Spain
is waiting for what many Spaniards believe
will be an inevitable conflict between America
and Soviet Russia. In such a war, the Spaniards
say their country will be enthusiastically on
America’s side. They are convinced that Spain,
not France, will be the main base on the
Continent for the American forces.”
* * * *
China Sinks, Japan Rises. —With the failure
of U.S. attempts to carry out the war-time
plan of building up a strong, united China, a
very different Far East future appears in the
making from what Roosevelt seemed to have
in mind. The war-time tendency, says “Chris-
tian Science Monitor” correspondent Henry S.
Hayward, “was to reason that Japan, the
enemy, would be defeated, that this defeat
would reduce Nippon for decades to the rank
of a secondary Power, and that with Japan
eliminated from the limelight, China, the Allied
Power, would become undisputed leader of the
Far East. It simply has not worked out that
way, Even .with Japan vanquished, China has
not emerged as the premier Power of the
Orient. Nor has Japan’s defeat completely
eliminated it from the prospect of a future
leadership role. China seems to be losing its
golden post-war opportunity—and Japan is mak-
ing every effort to profit thereby.”


HERE ARE YOUR ENEMIES!
S
y
mm
%
x/
Wk
5^
m
#!
I M'-. i
IT KILLS THESE -
plies, mosquitoes, silverfish,
fleas, moths of all kinds,
ants, bed-bugs, lice, sand-
flies and all other insect
pests.
★ A Product of the Chemical
Laboratories of Taylor’s Paints
Pty. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
CFA 212S^.
SPRAY ONCE A MONTH!
Once a month, spray Taylor’s NUMBER 13
on walls and ceilings, along skirting boards,
in clothes cupboards, on hanging clothes
(since it won’t harm even the daintiest
material), on curtains, on rubbish tins—
indeed, anywhere insects land to rest. Spray
once a month and your home will be free
from insects.
87
HERE IS YOUR REMEDY/
SPRAY ONCE
A MONTH!
NUMBER 13
D.D.T. SPRAY
AT ALL STORES
EVERYWHERE
0
•He
NUMBER 13
D.D.T. POWDER
Sprinkle once a month in
food cupboards, etc. Dust
your pets once a month
■ and keep them flea-proof.
1/J a tin.
NUMBER 13
D.D.T. Emulsion
To kill agricultural insect
pests on shrubs, trees and
plants, (See label.)
On KlLLl#®
WEEKS -
Huj-uet-iiw^
I
PS
ON
f op
wf
mtVAsona
aiso m TAmv comm
Size—A FULL PINT TO
LAST AUSUMMER
Zii
A
bottle
FOR INSECT PESTS
99
! ;ps
Tiu
NUMBER 13
270 & 570 D.D.T.
AGRICULTURAL
DUSTING POWDER
Your inquiry on any matter will be warmly welcomed by Taylor’s
Paints Pty.Ltd., Sutherland Ave., Paddington, N.S.W. {FA 2125), who
are the manufacturers of Taylor’s NUMBER 13 D.D.T. PRODUCTS.
Extract from Tamworth “Northern Daily Leader,” 27110j’47.
AERIAL DUSTING OF CROPS AT NARRABRI
This Tiger Moth, under charter to East-West Airlines, is seen travelling at 70 miles
an hour only one to three feet above Mr. Noel Barrett’s linseed crop as No. 1 3
D.D.T. dust is sprayed. Aerial dusting of linseed crops in the Pallamallawa and
Narrabri districts is claimed to have achieved great success in destroying the
caterpillars which soon wipe out linseed crops if not controlled. Experts predict
that aerial dusting has a great future in Australia.
Letter from Mr. J. Noel Barrett to Taylor’s Paints Pty. Ltd.
Your Mr. Brabham has asked me to advise you about the results of the
D.D.T.
In checking the tomato grub on the linseed crops, the D.D.T. 5 p.c. was
applied at the rate of approximately 1 5 lbs. per acre by air and about 201bs. per
acre with ground control. The dusting by air was about 95 p.c. effective,
and the ground dusting as far as is known a 100 p.c. job.
All things considered, I am very satisfied with the results, and I particularly
wish to express my appreciation of the interest Mr. Brabham has taken in
the work.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) J. NOEL BARRETT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3540
Wednesday, December 17, 1947
THE WILD THINGS HAVE THEIR HOUR.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior t David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
YEAR ONE, GOLDEN AGE.
With the Federal Parliament’s rising till
mid-February the first year of Mr.
.Chifley’s Golden Age may be said to have
ended. The conception was supposed to
take shape and being from the circum-
stances of an ample “Labor” majority in
each House. There were to be higher
wages for shorter hours, and no loss in
productive effort, together with “full em-
ployment,” especially in that swollen
bureaucracy dear to the hearts of Dr.
Coombs and the rest of the brains trust
of Post-war Planning celebrity.
These blueprinters, however, did not
reckon on the Communists, or, if they
did, they certainly did not plan for deal-
ing with them. Canberra had got the
Commonwealth regimented under war-
time regulations, and what it had it was
out to keep—pegged wages, pegged
prices, controls by licence over imports,
exports and transport, and organisation
of what was euphemistically called “social
security” ; all as evidence that the Golden
Age was no mere vision.
The unions proceeded to demand that
the Golden Age be mortgaged in advance.
Mr. Chifley at first refused to unpeg
wages, but when he yielded to shameless
Caucus dema'nds and raised Parliamentary
and Ministerial salaries, meanwhile
authorising a riotous issue of political
joy-ride tickets overseas, there was no
holding the unions. They forced the re-
lease of wage-controls, while demanding
maintenance of price-levels.
The Government made a sho.w of try-
ing to perform the impossible. It also
obliged by virtually bullying the Arbitra-
tion Court, with enthusiastic union sup-
port, into awarding a shorter working
week. The full effect of that upon pro-
duction, already lagging, will be seen in
the new year; the effect on the cost of
Government transport departments is
already serious. Next came the substitu-
tion for the Arbitration . Court of
a “streamlined” system of “Labor’s” own
selected conciliation commissioners.
These changes, it was alleged (spuriously),
would stop strikes. They have merely
provided a “new province” for Com-
munists in control of “key” unions.
As “the fruit began to fall from the
tree of events” price-pegging had to be
relaxed also. This is happening partly
through natural causes, beyond even Dr.
Cooftibs’s control, and partly through
the Government’s withdrawal of sub-
sidies which have fixed prices of consumer
goods and other necessaries. With
Senator McKenna, still (as ever) about to
“nationalise” health services, the cost of
drugs and medicines must go up “25 to
40 per cent.” The process will continue
with the latest import cuts. Import cuts
at a time when overseas prices for wool
and wheat are soaring beyond the fondest
dreams of the farmer before the war!
Some Gentleman with a Duster ought
to write an essay in the Keynes vein
on the economic consequences of
Dr. Coombs and the rest of the
Canberra brains trust. Under what
other advice did authority in Canberra
“guess wrong” (as Mr. Pollard has ad-
mitted) that prices of land produce would
fall? That must have been the advice ;
else how did Mr. Chifley come to permit
the sale for years ahead to New Zealand
of wheat at ss. 9d.? And who assured
Mr. Chifley that unpegging of wages need
not raise the cost of living, and that re-
duction of the working week would not
lead to greater scarcity because of lower
production? All these were accompani-
ments to the advent of the Golden Age.
About the time that the inflation which
Mr. Chifley was “preventing” was visibly
obtruding itself upon everybody else’s
vision, the Golden Age, like Our Foreign
Policy, “changed its plumage in mid-
flight.” After moulting into raven-like
appearance as a “recession,” if suddenly
wheeled about in the beautiful wings of
“Labor’s” dream-bird Socialisation, the
salvation of the country. Out of the
blues, Mr. Chifley plunged for the party’s
ultimate objective, hitherto kept in the
window for display purposes only, and
brought down his bill to socialise the
trading banks as the first step in the real
Golden Age of the party’s extremists.
The gasp of surprise within “the move-
ment” was heard all over the Continent.
Elsewhere—for Mr. Chifley had no man-
date —the immediate effects were a
general public upsurge against controls
from Canberra of every sort and kind.
And then, with “Labor’s” prestige
ruined, came the “dollar crisis,” as though
to ridicule the Chifley Government’s
theory that by taking control of banking
it could “protect” Australia against the
folly of its Socialists.
Mr, Chifley, now panic-stricken, allows
that “exports to hard-currency areas
might be increased.”
Australia could sell cement, timber, steel
rails in hard-currency areas, but if it did
those things would become scarcer in Aus-
tralia.
But why ndt, then, produce more cement
and steel rails?
The answer is that the unions forbid
it, and Mr. Chifley will not “crucify the
workers” by asserting Government
authority against any rebellious union.
That union. stoppages are frequently dic-
tated by Communist malice does not
move Mr. Chifley at all. The delays to
shipping in Australian ports at the whim
of the Communist-run wharfies’ union
have become a scandal in a country whose
Government has been searching the
world for ships. Although the Prime
Minister is supposed to be “scraping the
barrel” for exports to America, he was
for a fortnight an impotent spectator of
a ban on wool shipments by the Com-
munist-run Clerks’ Union, with which the
Communist-run wharfies made common
cause. Hear him on the Prices Refer-
endum Bill:
The world is in a very disturbed state.
A great number of things are going to be
in very short supply for a long time. They
are going to get shorter. That is something
no Government in this country can alter.
“The people must be protected,” the
P.M. says. Yet about the union anarchy,
prime cause of these shortages, the “Gov-
ernment” will do nothing. In immeasur-
ably graver circumstances union anarchy
has been courageously and successfully
resisted by a scratch Government in
France.
Throughout Australia people are mak-
ing it very clear that they do not want,
and will not have, the Chifley sort of
“protection.” The prices referendum it-
self is to be deferred till the end of May,
because “Ministers consider that the pub-
lic has shown itself out of sympathy
with the Federal Government at present.”
In the same way this Government has
wanted to hurry the completion of the
bank case before the High Court in order
that the people may forget the business
before the next elections. Well, just for
once that is not likely to happen, nor
has the prices referendum a Chinaman’s
chance of being carried. That the elec-
tors are itching for a vote on anything
that will show what they think of Mr.
Chifley is shown by the State “Labor”
crash in Victoria, by Mr. Chifley’s own
defeat —he was a bad last in his riding—
in Abercrombie Shire, and by the slump
in the “Labor” vote in Hartley.
Socialisation has, in fact, put “Labor”
everywhere on the skids. Three States,
which have all within the first year of
the Golden Age decisively rejected
“Labor,” in two cases with the expulsion
of “Labor” Administrations, are combin-
ing to fight the bank-socialisation move
“to the last ditch,” as the Westralian
Premier has said. Even Mr, McGirr
has put through a bill to extend the activi-
ties of his State’s Rural Bank. And the
“Labor” Government in Queensland has
told Canberra where it gets off in the
matter of Queensland’s own coal-bed
development plans.
With Abercrombie written on his heart
the discomfited prophet of the Golden
Age of socialisation goes off for New
Year reflections to New Zealand. His
deputy. Dr. Evatt, can doubtless imagine
a pleasanter Christmas occupation than
dealing with the industrial reactions from
his chief’s revelations of the latest im-
port cuts, made just after Parliament had
risen. But Dr. Evatt will no doubt recog-
nise the quid pro quo for his own run-
ning away from the Bank Grab Bill after
he had drafted it.
The Cosgrove Cose.
To Robert Cosgrove of Hobart, Tas-
mania, December is the month of months.
Born at the Tasmanian Richmond in
December. 1884, he became one of the
State “Labor” members in December,
1919, and Premier in December, 1939,
having in the meantime been a Minister
(Agriculture and Forestry) for five years
(1934-39).
In December, 1945, there began a
royal-commission inquiry into sweeping
allegations of corruption made in the
Legislative Council by the old inter-
national cricketer Joe Darling, who,
represented at the, opening of proceedings,
died before he could give evidence.
Mr. Cosgrove himself was a witness.
During his period as Forestry Minister
one Arthur Garibaldi Newman, of Mel-
bourne, and members of his family and
friends had succeeded in an application
for 5995 acres of “third-class” Grown
land, the purchase price being
£2058 4s. Bd., payable by instalments. It
was actually a Lands Department trans-
action, but it had to be—and was, in a
fashion—referred to the Forestry Depart-
ment, though Mr, Cosgrove disclaimed
knowledge of it, here contradicting his
Conservator, Mr. Steane.
The Commissioner, Judge Kirby
(N.S.W.), rejected the Conservator’s
“version” (though he “did intend and
endeavor to convey to Mr. Cosgrove the
facts and importance of the matter he did
not effectively do so”), and exculpated
Mr. Cosgrove, also the 1937-38 Premier
(A. G. Ogilvie) and Lands Minister
(T. H. Davies), both now deceased. But
he found that the “third-class land” had
over 50 million super, feet of timber on
it, and that because this was not taken
into account the Newmans —they are saw-
millers and had a mill in “full produc-
tion” 15 to 20 miles from “the area
selected” —got for a couple of thousand
what would have been cheap at £20,000
in 1938 and at £40,000 in 1946.
Not a witness at that inquiry was
Thomas George de Largie D’Alton, Mr.
Cosgrove’s successor as Minister of Agri-
culture and Forestry, a post from which
he was transferred to Wellington (N.Z.)
as Australian High Commissioner. Of
this gentleman the Commissioner reported
that he had received a corrupt payment
of “£3OO in notes” from Alstergren and
Nosworthy and a gift of timber, also
corruptly, from R. J. Howard. On the
latter charge D’Alton and Howard were
prosecuted, both being acquitted. D’Alton
is now back in Parliament as “Labor”
M.L.C. for Gordon.
December, 1946, saw the Cosgrove
Administration on the Treasury benches
again after an Assembly election
at which the party strength was reduced
from 20 members to 16, bringing the
majority down from 10 (two to one) to
the lowest possible two; and alteration of
a couple of hundred votes would have
made it level pegging. Three Ministers
were among the missing. This was a
facer, for Federal Labor had just won the
Senate seats in Tasmania and everywhere
else except Queensland. But the crisis
of the Cosgrove fortunes arrived in De-
cember, 1947.
To Hobart from Adelaide came the
South Australian Supreme Court Justice
Reed with a commission to go into a
charge, read in the Assembly by Opposi-
tion-leader Campbell that a road-operator
named Sullivan, for himself and three
other road-operators, Cook, Fry and
Guy, had paid the Premier £5400, not for
his personal use (though this could be in-
ferred from the Assembly statement as
part of the charge) but for “Labor”-
party funds, “in return for assurances
that they would not be put off the roads
by Goverpment-owned transport ser-
vices.” It was alleged that the £5400, all
in £lO and £5 notes, was handed to Mr.
Cosgrove in half-yearly instalments, the
first at Hobart in December, 1944, and
the last at Launceston in June, 1947.
Under severe cross-examination Sulli-
van stuck to his story, and there was sup-
porting testimony, though not as to the
passing of money to the alleged recipient.
The Premier’s-office appointment book
had entries of calls by Sullivan, one each
in December, 1944, December, 1945, and
December, 1946, and four on other dates ;
and there was indirect official evidence
of Cosgrove-Sullivan meetings at Laun-
ceston, one on December 12, 1945. Dur-
ing October, 1947, according to Deputy-
Premier Brooker, the Premier mentioned
indignantly before an Executive Council
meeting that Sullivan had made him “an
offer of £3000.” The bank accounts of
Mr. and Mrs. Cosgrove, among others,
were produced. They revealed a “steady
improvement in assets from 1945,” but
nothing out of the way.
It was admitted that Mr. Cosgrove had
in October, 1946, paid £672 in notes for
a car. On this subject a New Norfolk
publican named Weaver said that be-
tween October, 1943, and some time in
1945 he had borrowed £7OO from the
Premier in three amounts, receiving the
money “mostly” in £lO and £5 notes, and
that, thanks to a relative living somewhere
in Melbourne, had repaid the full amount,
in notes, in September, 1946.
It was given out that Mr. Cosgrove
would go into the box with a general
denial of the Sullivan accusations. Be-
fore he could do this the Commissioner
announced that it “would mean answer-
ing a charge made under circumstances
which might be prejudicial” to the
Premier, “in that a conclusion as to his
innocence or guilt would be arrived at
otherwise than by the verdict of a jury,
which is his lawful right.”
In view of these considerations, I have
taken the course of recommending to the
Attorney-General that it would be more
satisfactory if an indictment were riled
against the Premier The Attorney
General has given me an undertaking that
an indictment will be filed and that a
pardon will be granted to Sullivan, Fry,
Cook and Guy. Under these, circumstances
it would, in my opinion, be improper that
I should proceed further with this inquiry.
The Attorney-General is Mr. R. F.
Fagan, who, not then in Parliament, was
“counsel assisting the Commissioner” at
the Kirby inquiry. Subsequent to the call-
ing off of the Reed inquiry Mr. Cosgrove
accompanied the Attorney-General to the
House as Premier, a course to which the
Opposition strongly objected. At the
week-end he was on the way o.ut, and
with at least one of the “Labor” members
restive, whatever makeshift succeeds his
Administration will have no particular
survival value. Very obviously there
should be a general Assembly election as
soon as one can be decently held.
Dollar Squandermania.
Stunning as they were, the dollar cuts
which represent the Chifley Government’s
Christmas box to Australia would have
been accepted with resignation if they
had been linked with a Government
policy of dollar economy, and if they had
been made in such a way as not to sug-
gest that they were the result of panic.
Mr. J. R. Adams, the British Trade
Commissioner, said at a Sydney Rotary
Club luncheon that “the people should
have been prepared for the cuts,” and
that “adjustments should have been made
years ago.” He quoted Mr. Chifley as
having said that Australia had a net
liability of $100,000,000 to the Empire
dollar pool.
Devastating was the only word to de-
scribe some of the sudden reductions,
which are bound to cause unemploy-
ment, especially in the newspaper-produc-
tion business and the motor trades. And
all this when the Government has
squandered millions of dollars, and en-
gaged to squander millions more, notably
on materials bought within the dollar
area to establish the totally unnecessary
Government airlines, which have already
lost half a million in ten months, in
competition with taxpaying and eco-
nomically-run private enterprises. Even
on the day the dollar cuts were an-
nounced new Intra-State routes for
T.-A.A., under licence from the Queens-
land Government, were advertised as
about to be operated. As operation will
require aircraft, parts and fuel, it can be
taken for granted that the Government’s
own buying operations in the dollar
zone will not be affected.
Similarly, the motor-vehicle and petrol
cuts would not be cause for such bitter
complaint if they had, not been imme-
diately preceded by the purchase of a
fleet of Buicks for Ministers and retinues,
for whom a fleet of fluid-drive Chryslers
—offered to the South African Govern-
ment and rejected by it on grounds of
economy—were bought in war-time. “An
American car for every ‘Labor’ politician
and bureaucrat” would seem to be
“Labor’s” motto.
The promotion of a motor trade with
Britain in both passenger and commercial
vehicles is desirable from a defence view-
point as well as a dollar viewpoint. That
sterling democrat “Labor’s” Governor-
General perhaps went a little too far in
acquiring a Rolls Royce. The magnifi-
cence of his “Rolls” is such as to make
even the Soviet Ambassador’s social
battle-wagon look like a pensioned milk-
van.
Again, there has been playing up of
dollars on overseas trips for and by
“Labor” politicians and friends as if the
pool were inexhaustible ; and the luggage
a lot of these people have brought back!
For instance, the late Minister Keane’s
friend Mr. Joe Goldberg, who admitted
having made lavish dollar purchases for
his patron. And the good-as-“ Labor”
Mr. Parry, a witness before a royal com-
mission inquiring into some of his land
transactions, had no difficulty in leaving
these shores for a dollar area when his
health or something failed in the very
midst of the excitement. Then Mr. Thorn-
ton, a member of the Central Committee
of the Communist party, has had a
wander-year, often at the taxpayers! ex-
pense and at least twice in dollar areas,
ever since it became safe to travel. Mr.
Thornton has returned from another
overseas jaunt, undertaken mainly
for purposes hostile to. the British and
Australian peoples, with the glad news
that a World Trade Union—otherwise a
branch of the Red International —is to
be set up in Malaya.
Another party. Communist included,
was sent to Mexico City, in the dollar
area, on an everything-found basis. And
the movements of Ministers and others to
Lake Success, New York, Washington,
Ottawa, Havana and various pleasant
spots at which conferences, gabbles and
guzzles are held are legion.
In this field Dr. Evatt is the Dollar
Prince. The doctor can give any million-
aire tourist a start from scratch and catch
him at the bottom of the straight. Not
Mr. Chifley, who travelled to N.Z. in
a four-engined aircraft, ostensibly for a
holiday, at an expenditure of perhaps
7000 gallons of petrol; not Mr. Drake-
ford, himself a tireless overseas tripper,
who maintains his own aircraft like an
Indian rajah, and thinks nothing of
squandering 360 gallons of dollar fuel be-
tween Melbourne and Canberra, can
match Dr. Evatt. That Minister at a
U.N.O. cocktail party must have been a
sensation. But in terms of dollars his own
journeyings, wide and expensive as they


are, are only a circumstance to those of
his retinue and to the upkeep of the
palatial legations and the like which
have been set up by way of ministering to
his glory. The costs of these expeditions
and outfits have, in the last year or so,
risen like a V 2 rocket, as have those of
the many Parliamentary travellers of the
Daly - Haylen - Collings - Donald Grant
varieties and of the droves of trade-union
bosses who have “represented” Australia
abroad.
This year’s estimate for Aus-
tralian representation at Washington is
£143,700 ; in China, £60,500 ; in Moscow,
£39,200; in France, £43,200. Brazil,
Chile, Eire and the like, with which Aus-
tralia has no trade, eat up £IOO,OOO or so.
Consular and other offices abroad
call for well over £250,000, mostly in
dollars.
These amounts are exclusive of £75,000-
odd for the International Labor Office
(otherwise the 1.L.0. racket), £IO,OOO for
minor conferences, £40,000 for the World
Trade and Employment Conference,
£47,000 for the United Nations Food
organisation and £290,000 for the United
Nations organisation, including £95,000
as the cost of representation by Dr. Evatt
and his young geniuses. For the U.N.O.
educational, cultural and scientific or-
ganisation £61,000 has been appropriated
—travelling and junket expenses included.
For the equivalent of 75 p.c. of the
fancy expenditure on the Departments of
External Affairs and Information —which
gives a staggeringly small amount of in-
formation about its annual outlay—a
great deal of work-giving materials of
which industry is about to be deprived
could be had.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Welcome Strangers.
The Murray Valley has become the
scene of two interesting and heartening
experiments, the first of which may
already be accounted a success.
When it became clear that the uni-
versity at Melbourne, in common with
the other city universities, could not
comfortably accommodate all the new
students, mostly servicemen and service-
women, seeking admission, the establish-
ment of a residential branch was decided
upon. The Commonwealth Government
offered to sell the R.A.A.F. camp at
Mildura for £50,000, reduced to
£30,000, and to assist in the cost of con-
verting the existing structures, as well as
meeting repatriation payments —£3 ss. a
week for single men and £5 ss. for
married. The State Government voted
the rest of the expenditure, which so far
—repat. allowances excepted—has been
reckoned at £250,000.
It is planned to give 600 or 700
students a year at Mildura and to go
on with the good work. Most of those
of the 1947-48 vintage are so taken with
the place and the life that “they would
like to finish their courses here,”
the warden said, in a message to
Melbourne “Herald.” “But that,” he
added, “is not possible—twelve months
is the limit.” Meantime the young
people have been so intent on their
studies that they are expected to show
better examination results than the city
lads and lasses, and they have contrived
to beat Mildura at football, cricket and
tennis without losing its liking and
respect.
Mr. Cain is honorably associated with
this capital essay in decentralisation,
which should be amplified in the domain
of education and extended to other fields,
such as income-tax. Nor can Mr. Cal-
well be denied his share of credit for
the arrival at Bonegilla of 839 Balts from
displaced persons’ camps in Europe. One
of his officers, who travelled with the
party from Fremantle to Melbourne,
described them as “undoubtedly the best
Continental immigrants to reach Aus-
tralia since the war.” Of both sexes,
and nearly all young, they would pass for
Scots, and many of them probably have
good Scots blood in their veins—the
Scottish soldier of fortune left his mark
in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, as well
as in Sweden and Finland.
With the help of the Commonwealth
Education Service, which has co-oper-
ated in both these useful movements, the
Balts are to have a month at Bonegilla,
learning Australian ways, getting a
grounding in the English language and
living in army huts, before going to the
jobs waiting for them. Nearly all of
them have had personal experience of
Nazism and Communism and abominate
both.
Dr. Evatt and Palestine.
In one of those A.B.C. monologues which
remind Australians from time to time that
he is really in their country again. Dr.
Evatt lauded Our Foreign Policy at
U.N.O. in general and the Palestine
Committee over which he presided in
particular. The committees decision
was for partition, and Dr, Evatt ap-
plauded it as the only possible course.
What he did not say was that it was
made in the face of the refusal to coun-
tenance it by Britain, the retiring man-
datory Power (which abstained from vot-
ing). In face also of the most serious
warnings from Mohammedan Powers and
Arab League States, and of arguments,
left quite unanswered, that neither
U.N.O. nor the United States could, or
would, furnish any military force to im-
plement the decision. So close was the
voting in the Assembly that at one stage
the prospect that Haiti might vote No
threw the Assembly into panic. “The
strength of the Jewish influence in Wash-
ington has been a revelation,” wrote the
“Times” correspondent. “The partition
scheme would have been carried in no
other city than New York.”
Previously to the decision the Arabs
proposed the establishment of a federal
State, of Jewish and Arab cantons, with
a constitution similar to that of U.S.A.
But the disposition was to rush through
the majority recommendation of the
Commission of Inquiry, especially at
the lead of America and Russia.
The “Times,” in a later report, says
that the speeches of Sir Zafrullah Khan
would have killed the project in any
assembly where it was considered on its
merits, Among this Pakistan represen-
tative’s remarks, protesting against “the
tendency of delegates to vote under every
“I’VE LOST BRITAIN AND I’VE LOST GAUL..."
“The French Government has not only defeated the Communist strikes, but has arrested
and expelled Russian officials and returned a Russian Note breaking off trade relations.”
“What's it matter if that French beast has broken away ? Haven't I still
got you?”
other pressure except that of their con-
sciences,” were these:
The U.N.O. Assembly, without being able
to disprove them, has refused to let Arab
legal rights be tested in the International
Court. The proponents of partition have
been completely unable to show authority
in the Charter for what they are doing,
and in fact the United States has fallen
back on the argument that the only law
that would cover the matter was the will
of the majority. The Assembly should
take warning from the fact that Britain
had got sick of the whole thing. As an
experiment partition lacks moral justifica-
tion, lacks legal validity, is impossible to
realise, and sets at nought the wishes of 66
per cent, of the population of Palestine.
Fadhil Jamali, speaking for Irak, told
the Assembly it could not enforce the
scheme unless it was the intention of the
United States and the Soviet Union to
send military forces. In that case they
would create another Korea.
“Australia,” in the shape of Dr. Evatt,
was, with the narrow majority, unim-
pressed by these arguments. Dr. Evatt
turned down an invitation to Australia
to become a member of the Commission
of Five to go to Palestine to implement
the decision. As to whether Australia
will send a contingent of troops to help
keep the peace under a decision which
Dr. Evatt so greatly applauds, there is
as yet no word..
A Comet for Christmas.
Sydney tries to see it:
Made aware by reports from such outlandish
and backward places as Melbourne and Adelaide
that a comet was illuminating the Austral skies,
the entire population of the nation’s greatest
city has been desperately peering upward every
night in the vain hope of sighting the thing—
at least, that was their condition up to the
week-end. This desire to observe the astral
phenomenon was prompted not so much by
love of astronomy as the wish to see a break
in the cloud wrack which arrived with Decem-
ber and stayed pitilessly over a city rushing
to get its Christmas shopping done.
Day after day, its streets jammed with what
seemed to be the entire adult population, Syd-
ney has been regularly and relentlessly drenched
with rain. At the week-ends when, exhausted
by their exertions, the citizens prepared for
relaxation at beaches and sports grounds or in
the adjacent bush, the rain came again. And
the more it fell the more the Water Board
warned of failing dams and the need to be
sparing in the use of water. The more it fell,
the more frequent and prolonged were the
“blackouts” from Bunnerong, deadliest of
“public utilities.” Presently the Water Board
gave up—you can’t persuade a city that water
is short when the stuff keeps falling from the
skies day and night for weeks—but Bunnerong
kept on not supplying electricity. There was
a barney between the Premier and the County
Council about it, but the sodden people have
heard such barneys before and no longer derive
any amusement from them. Besides, all or
more of them had listened to barneys in the
nation’s Parliament at Canberra, and the Mc-
Girr-County Council row was a pale thing by
comparison.
Still, undaunted by rain, high prices, high fares,
slow transport, shortages and threats to their
petrol ration and tobacco, the inhabitants poured
grimly into the city every day, fought their
way grimly round the shops, grimly endured
the rain and discomfort, grimly emptied their
purses, went grimly home to their sodden
suburbs and looked for the comet after dark.
Meantime, from Woy Woy to Wollongong,
from Blackheath to Bundanoon, owners of
“guesf’-houses, pubs, caf6s, taxis and other
instrumentalities for catering to the week-epd
crowds glared at the weeping skies, the empty
beaches and the deserted bush glades and
cursed the weather gods. Even the announce-
ment of a grand sooper-dooper Christmas lott’ry
at 10s. a ticket and 12 thousand for the winner
failed to cheer them. And editors of flapper news-
papers were in sore straits. Cameramen couldn’t
find near-naked brats on the drenched beaches
and the papers had to do what they could
with touched-up pictures of over-exposed Holly-
wood women, already too familiar in more than
one sense of the word.
The final blow seemed to fall with the
announcement that Melbourne wharfies had
banned the export of beer and malt from
their town and that Sydney could expect a
beerless Christmas. However, this was not as
crushing as it seemed, since bottled beer had
long since vanished into the blackmarket, what
time Mr. Police Commissioner Mac Kay made
a “routine inspection” of country stations, keep-
ing a suspicious eye on meetings of sewing
circles and Dorcas Leagues in case any of them
whispered a comment that could be construed
as a gunpowder plot against the McGirr-
Baddeley fishmarkets or something. In the
midst of fhe downpour from the skies it was
cheerfully announced that there was a glut
of peaches, which were selling in the markets
at next to nothing, whereupon housewives
coated, umbrella-ed and goloshed themselves
and paddled round to the fruiterers —to buy
half-sized peaches at 2d. or 3d. each. The
Indian cricketers arrived, no doubt believing
they’d been switched to Assam in the rainy
season by mistake; armed thieves failed to get
a gravediggers’ payroll at dead of night; Mr.
Chifley left for N.Z. just in time to avoid
meeting “Dr.” Sjahrir from Indonesia; 40,000
shop assistants got a wage rise of up to 7s. a
week; Senator Courtice announced still another
rise in food costs; private hospitals were clos-
ing down; a young man who had the effrontery
to try to sell fresh fish narrowly escaped a
cordon of Government inspectors at Vaucluse —
and the comet refused to appear.
Amidst all this one section of the great city
managed to retain its cheerfulness, optimism
and simple faith. The young ’uns saw nothing
strange, menacing, fantastic, bewildering or
frightening by day or night. Dollar shortages,
blackmarket beer, high prices and the rest of
it had no meaning. To them the rain was a
joyful and lovely thing. It made nice, squelchy
puddles and offered the frequent and thrilling
adventure of running through it without a hat.
They cared not a fig for the invisible comet.
Their only interest was in the imminent arrival
of a jovial old gent, in a red coat and white
whiskers and they were dead certain that
nothing could stop him. Thank goodness, they
are right!
Slump in Ward Stocks.
Precise and detailed facts in bulk over-
whelming have driven Mr. Ward to admit
that there are “food and short-
ages in Rabaul” and to whine that he is
in no way responsible. The “shortages,”
it seems, were brought about by “cir-
cumstances beyond the Government’s
control.” What torrents of invective
would have poured from the Ward mouth
had such a plea been offered by a “Tory”
Administration!
The Minister was so rattled as to present
“a letter from a Rabaul resident” as a
perfect excuse for himself and his crowd.
According to the “resident,” whose letter
bears the date November 21, there were
then no fresh meat or butter, no babies’
food and no tinned milk, and that same
week Mr. Ward himself quoted the
Rabaul district officer as reporting “short-
ages” of “flour, biscuits and soap,” Yet
the “resident” maintained, with the Minis-
ter’s approval, that “any person who
says he is short of food in this area is
not telling the truth.” What about the
babies?
The truth about Mr. Ward is that his
stocks have slumped heavily, so heavily
that the young gentlemen at Canberra
who write political columns in which the
“Tory” dogs never get the best of it
have ceased to mention him as a possible
Prime Minister. They allow that even
Mr. Calwell has passed him in the struggle
for the succession. Putting him up to
follow Mr. Menzies in debate revealed
him as having nothing in his armory but
dull abuse and stale statistics. His boast
that he had “waited twenty years to make
this speech on banking” prompted Mr.
Holt to retort smartly “Why, you have
been making this speech for twenty
years”; and so he had. The attacks on
company directors with which the inflic-
tion was stuffed were taken from an
old Communist brochure.
Beer and Barley.
A couple of Melbourne wharfies went
to a pub at lunch-time to have a couple
of beers. The beer was off. Indignant
beyond measure, since to deny a wharfie
beer—especially with his lunch —is re-
garded as the 1 limit in “capitalistic” op-
pression, the drought-stricken pair called
upon their comrades to rise; and rise
they did.
Export of beer from Melbourne was
banned, and malt was included in the em-
bargo. Somebody pointed out that malt
was used for making yeast, needed by
bakers and others, but he was hastily
suppressed. It occurred to some bright
person to ask why the beer had gone
off, whereupon it was discovered that
maltsters in the breweries had struck for
more holidays, a five-day week and more
wages. The award being to a small
extent inconsistent with the “Labor”"in-
junction, “Give the workers everything
they ask for,” they stayed on strike.
Then an awful thought occurred to
the Trades Hall Council. N.S.W.
breweries depend upon Victorian malt to
make their beer. If they got no malt
they’d have to stop making beer; and,
among other things, this would mean that
N.S.W. coalminers, having by their des-
perate exertions in between strikes earned
three weeks’ holiday at Christmas, would
have to endure those holidays without
beer. The Trades Hall ordered the
wharfies to lift the ban. The wharfies re-
plied with decisions to (a) continue the
ban, ( b ) seek the “nationalisation” of
breweries (in that case there would be
no beer) and (c) invite Premier Hollway
to make a “full inquiry into the beer in-
dustry in Victoria.”
Various unions were then called to a
Trades Hall meeting, it being announced
that “a very serious view of the water-
siders’ attitude had been taken by
officers of the T.H.C. and the Liquor
Trades Union.” Meantime the Australian
Barley Board rushed in with the inevi-
table ukase;
If malting plants cannot work to full
capacity the Board will reduce the quota
of barley for home consumption. More
would then be available for export. Vic-
toria would be most affected by this re-
duction. Barley would be withdrawn from
maltsters who did not use it.
There followed agitated union and
brewery manoeuvres, and when water-
front hotels promised to put beer “on” in
the lunch-hour the wharfies lifted the ban.
It had been regarded with complacency
by barley-growers, since there’s a vast
difference between home and export
prices, and crops—especially in South
Australia —are good. For export barley
is worth 18s. to 20s. a bushel. For home
consumption the grower gets 4s. 6d. or so,
being entertained with the hope that there
may be another 2s. 6d. or 3s. from “final
realisations.” Wheat- and wool-growers
know what “final realisations” may mean.
In the 1946-47 financial year the
Federal Government collected £27,379,851
in beer excise, and H. J. Prater, secre-
tary of the W.A. Farmers’ Union, which
is worried over the price of W.A. barley,
suggests that Id. a gallon of it be given
to growers of malting barley used to
make Australian beer. Nobody is likely
to listen, barley-growers not having the
status of wharf-laborers, who have pro-
ceeded from the dictation of foreign
policy to the dictation of inter-State
trade. But wharfies and coalies would
fare ill for beer if the barley-growers
adopted the ban habit,


‘Tfrl ifffiTfr
■■■■■^WTW
v
r->
i«i
n
CRAVEN A aiuMf
H
7 U ******
CARRERAS LTD. OVER ISO YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
m
6576
POLITICAL POINTS
Assembly voting in Hartley, hitherto
the solidest part of Chifley’s constituency
of Macquarie, will give the “Labor” man,
Chalmers, an absolute majority of 700
or 800 votes. Repeated in Macquarie
it might cost Chifley the seat for which
ho has been thrice defeated already.
Chifley spoke for Chalmers, and the party
expected a 5-to-2 or 3-to-l majority.
With a thousand or so votes to be counted
—a few score are to be polled—actual
figures were 7133 for Chalmers and 4724
for the Liberal, Coates. State-election
voting was 10,837 for Minister Hamilton
Knight, now one of those Conciliation
Commissioners, and 1883 for a Com-
munist. This time the entire Communist
vote went to “Labor,” but there were
6163 anti-bank-grab votes.
Hartley has had “Labor” members
since 1891. Joe Cook was the first, and
after Joe came Jim Dooley (1907-27)
and Hamilton Knight (1927-47). For
some years of the Dooley period it was
part of a three-member electorate, but
the Hartley boxes always gave Dooley a
tremendous lead.
To the Chifleys the crisis in Tasmanian
“Labor” affairs is, of course, “a State
matter,” but in at least one important
respect it is “a Federal matter.” For
Premier Cosgrove and Deputy-Premier
Brooker were delegates to the 1943
Federal A.L.P. conference and, as such,
took an active part in drafting and pass-
ing the chief resolution:
That a nation-wide campaign for socialism
be started immediately, and that the im-
plementing of the campaign be left in the
hands of the Federal A.L.P. executive.
On the Federal A.L.P. executive, today a
virtual dictatorship over the State A.L.P.
executives, the Tasmanian representatives
are Brooker and Lamp.
Many of the machine tools and toys
with which Australia is supplied are made
in the Sydney concerns of which John
Heine was managing director. In his
time John Heine found steady jobs
for many hundreds of Australians, and
grandfathers, fathers and sons were on
his payroll. And for upwards of quarter
of a century he tried to make industrial
arbitration work. So good and enterpris-
ing an employer was bound to become a
target for Communist malevolence, and
during the last twelvemonth he had a full
issue of it. John Heine is dead of cerebral
haemorrhage, which struck him down at
a council meeting of the Metal Trades
Employers, of whose association he had
been president for 20 years.
Claiming that 30,000 greyhounds in
Australia ate 60,000 pounds of meat a
day, thus reducing the meat available for
hungry Europe, a Seventh Day Adventist
in New Zealand advocated incinerating
the lot, adding that the ashes should
be good manure for beans. An early
reply to this blasphemy can be expected
as soon as the “Labor” sports in the
N.S.W. Assembly recover from the shock.
A Swedish brain specialist claims he
can cure Communism by a simple surgical
operation which takes only half an hour.
For years the Russians have had a cure
for anti-Communism ; an injection which
takes only half a second. The substance
injected is a bullet —in the back of the
neck.
The terrible squeals and threats of the
Communist bosses of the Miners’ Federa-
tion notwithstanding, Queensland Premier
Hanlon has signed the agreement with
the London Electric Supply Corporation
for the opening up and working of the
vast Blair Athol coalfield. The signing
brought an agonised yelp from Grant,
general secretary of the Miners’ Federa-
tion, that the coalies wcyald be “mobilised”
to resist employment of A.W.U. men on
Blair Athol. But the yelps of people
like Grant should merely amuse people
like Hanlon, the A.W.U. and the L.E.S.C.
A Melbourne collector imported from
England three pictures valued respectively
at £9OO, £2OO and £l5O. He had no in-
tention of reselling. Then Chifley stepped
in with taxes, as a result of which the
£9OO picture cost £l696—something
in the region of a Rembrandt—the £2OO
picture cost £370 and the price of the
£l5O work of art was almost exactly
doubled. Great friend of culture, Chifley.
If Dr. Evatt and Clumsy Calwell
and their outfits could be put up for
auction abroad and knocked down at
their own valuations of themselves and
efforts Chifley need no longer have
a deficit in the Empire dollar pool.
“There is no mumbo-jumbo about the
dollar crisis,” Chifley said. On the
contrary, it is little else but mumbo-
jumbo. There is only one cure for rising
costs and that is harder work. There is
only one way to beat scarcity—of dollars
or anything else —and that is greater pro-
duction of goods.
“Labor” dailies set up in Australia to
show “the capitalists” how to run news-
papers failed expansively in Sydney (2),
Brisbane, Adelaide and Hobart. In these
socialist enterprises the best part of a mil-
lion of unionists’ money went west, and
now N.Z. “Labor’s” “Southern Cross”
is in a desperate plight. “Cash or Crash”
is the heading of a circular sent to trade-
unionists by the management. The circu-
lar stated that £5OOO a week for six
months will be required if the “Southern
Cross” is not to set permanently. An
Opposition member in the House voiced
a morose objection to salvation levies
being extorted from Government em-
ployees, postmen in particular.
A Sydney Sunday journal says that the
late Keane’s friend Goldberg, who flew
his whole family to the U.S.A., at a cost
of thousands of dollars, after his tilt with
the law over his sumptuous Keane pur-
chases, is off again by air to the land in
which the purchases were made. He is to
“compere” a wedding on Long Island
(N.Y.), a spot so expensive that only
millionaires and Soviet diplomats can
afford to exist in it. Miss Australia, who
has been denied dollars to go abroad to
advertise the youth of the Common-
wealth, was evidently born into the wrong
family,
Earle Page and Eggins, M.L.C., chair-
men respectively of the Federal and N. S.
Wales Country parties, have gone to
South Africa, where they will be the
guests of the Union Government, to “ex-
amine whether Australian and South
African land production, when seasons
coincide, can be made complementary
and not competitive.” It is to be hoped
that the tourists have taken proper pre-
cautions to prevent Afrikanders from
mistaking either of them for Dr. Evatt,
whose attitude on German South-west
Africa and the Indian question is all too
well remembered at the Cape, even
though he “changed his plumage in mid-
flight.”
There are some able men in taxpayers’
associations, and the president of the one
in Queensland, T. G. Lahey, got to the
heart of the matter in a condemnation of
“the huge and oppressive levies being
made on the people”:
They arc to be an essential instrument
in establishing a new and experimental
social order. Under this system, the thrifty,
the hard-working and the enterprising are
to be levelled by taxation so that all may
qualify for the meagre fruits of free
medicine, free hospitals, free pensions and
the like. j
“Meagre fruits” is right, and they have
a distressing tendency to shrivel up in
hard times.
An American lady who writes for the
Sydney “Daily Mirror” has it that “loyal
followers of Mackenzie King, Canada’s
65-year-old Liberal leader, are casting
about for an heir.” They wouldn’t be
worried if he were 65; as it happens he
turns 73 today. The Order of Merit was
recently conferred on the rather wonder-
ful old boy, and he richly deserved it.
Moved after many years to order
modern tramcars in place of the rattle-
traps with the deadly footboards which
have caused a high mortality rate among
conductors, O’Sullivan, the Sydney
“Labor” Transport Minister, invited
tenders for new constructions. He got
one for 250 at £BOOO to £9OOO. The price
in Melbourne, where the tramway system
really serves the people and conductors
are never in any danger of contracting
pneumonia or being bashed or catapulted
to death, is £5OOO. O’Sullivan, whose
“Government” blithely introduced the
40-hour week without counting the cost,
can’t understand why there should be
such a difference. All the things that
O’Sullivan can’t understand would, if
committed to paper, equal the compass
of the biggest encyclopaedia ever pub-
lished.
The N.S.W. Railway Department,
already speeding towards insolvency, is
to increase its outlay by carrying out an
inquisition requiring all employees to
become financial members of unions,
the penalty being the sack. No-
ticing else could be expected of
“Labor” politicians like McGirr and
O’Sullivan, who habitually i crawl to
Communists, but Hartigan should be
above being their obsequious instrument,
especially as he is in the last year of a
commissionership entered upon in 1932.
The A.R.U. bosses have shown their
“gratitude” for the favor done to them
by threatening an “overtime strike.”
The N.S.W. Operating Railway Em-
ployees’ Union, formed in 1939 as a
protest against Communist control of
the A.R.U., is marked down for the axe.
Not so the N.U.R., which, for reasons
tolerably well known, McGirr, O’Sullivan
and Hartigan are afraid to tackle
N.U.R. has a standing rule which has
served the N. S. Wales public well; —-
Neither the union nor any of its members
shall at any time take part in an illegal
strike, or refrain from handling or dealing
with any article or commodity, or do any
act or thing to induce or compel any per-
son to refrain from handling or dealing
with an article or commodity, during the
currency of any strike.
Prime Minister Fraser has banned
N.Z. exhibition of the film “Indonesia
Calling,” made in Australia to the order
of the Communists of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation as a symbol of their
control of Our Foreign Policy, Says
Peter Fraser; —
The film constitutes advocacy of the
undemocratic principle that minority groups
may arrogate to themselves the right to
conduct foreign relations of a nation,
whereas these can be the responsibility only
of the Government.
The “undemocratic principle” has been
meekly accepted by Chifley, who has
flown over to N.Z. in a four-engined
Liberator and may, or may not, discuss
the matter with Fraser. Probably not.
Finnan, the McGirr Tourist Minister,
became a “columnist” for a day last
week, and announced that he’d just run
into Police Commissioner Mac Kay “and
staff” on a routine tour of country police
stations. Mac Kay’s big car was hauling
a caravan to accommodate himself “and
staff.” Strange how these employees of
a State which taxes common people into
using its old railways don’t use those
same railways when on State business.
Any lady mentioning petrol and dollars
in the hearing of the Mac Kay outfit risks
being run in as a person suspected of
belonging to the Fascist Married Women’s
String-bag Association or something.
So far the astronomers have been un-
able to ascertain whe-ther the comet now
inhabiting the adjacent skies has a griev-
ance. It was natural to accept this as an
obvious reason for its appearance, since
its arrival coincided with the return of
Dr. Evatt, hailed by some American
writers as likely, in an inter-planetary
age, to “become the champion of small
planets.”
During his invasion of the North,
Williams (imp.), the Communist boss of
the Miners’ Federation, told the coalies
this:
Queensland should fit into the inter-
national picture. We want Queensland
miners to be on a similar status to those
in New South Wales.
In other words, to fit in with the Moscow
policy and be ready to obey any order
from Communist bosses, no matter how
seriously it affects their own or others’
employment, how much damage it does
to the nation or how much bitterness it
causes.
About the first thing Hollway dis-
covered when he took over from Cain in
Victoria was a deficit, and he expects it
to read £1,235,000 by June 30. Another
discovery was a Railway Department
loss of £1,482,168, £1,150,000 of which is
attributed by the Commissioners to
the strikes in October, 1946, and in
March, April and May this year. Brown,
the Communist boss of the A.R.U., rushed
into print with a denial and hissed some-
thing about the interest bill and the lack
of a “really live administration,” The
last, in Brown’s estimation, means an
administration weak enough to give in to
every Communist larrikin who throws his
weight about.
In N. S. Wales especially, rain, wind,
hail and rust have taken a heavy toll of the
Australian wheat crop. N.S.W. growers
were already struggling to get their wheat
off without sufficient machinery, bags or
labor. There must have been hollow
laughter when they heard that wharfies
had asked Conciliation Commissioner
Morrison for another 6s. an hour for
loading wheat —they are to get “an extra
6d. to Is. 6d. above the basic hourly rate”
—and that N.S.W. railwaymen were
threatening another overtime strike. The
usual deafening silence came from the
“Labor” Government which runs the rail-
ways and from the one which comman-
deers the wheat, and which looks like
collecting most of the proceeds of the
harvest in taxes.
Card picked up at Canberra, like the
McKell doggerel:
■ The Sky’s the Limit for the A.L.P. Airline
(All Lucre Provided.)
Political Director; A. S. (America
Summons) Drakeford.
Managers: A. W. Coles and “Fighting Bill”
Taylor.
Motto: Nothing under. Half a Million.
N.S.W. fishermen on the Tweed have
joined those at Eden in revolt against
Badly’s State fish-market controls. Their
natural market—evident to anyone but
the Socialist crowd in Macquarie-street
—is Brisbane, not Sydney; and why
should fish for Sydney be hauled from
a coast 700 miles away, anyway? Such
asinine laws tend to bring all law into
contempt. The Tweed fishermen are
ignoring Badly.
Peter Fraser and C. F. Skinner, his
N.Z.E.F. Minister of Lands and Rehabili-
tation, had to work fast in Westland
after the Ministerial Miss Howard had
been asked whether “Labor” was “a
hundred per cent, opposed to Commu-
nists” and had said she couldn’t give a
straight-out answer. Skinner’s effort was:
“Every member of the ‘Labor’ party will
back me up when I state that members of
the Communist party are not entitled to
live in New Zealand because their con-
duct is dictated by people 10,000 miles
away,” Only a handful of Australian
“Labor” politicians—perhaps only two,
the Victorians Keon and Cremean —
would go as far as that. Even so, in a
poll of 12,000 votes or so, the late
O’Brien’s 1946 majority was reduced by
nearly 3000, and what was left of it all
came from mining districts.


ONLY “LABOR” POLITICIANS AND FRIENDS ADMITTED.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Clooter”: P’raps I’m old-fashioned,
but I cling to the notion of Christmas
being, before anything, a children’s festival
celebrating the birth of the Founder of
Christianity. It comes as a shock to find
the chief of the Government lott’ry put-
ting on a “special Christmas” ghmble,
with tickets at half-a-nicker each and
£12,000 for the first prize—the tickets to
be printed in red and green and embel-
lished with the traditional holly and bells
to suit “people who wish to make a
Christmas gift of lottery tickets.” I
think it was Paul who reminded Timothy
that “the love of money is the root of
all evil,” and though I sometimes regard
Paul as the original wowser, he was not
mistaken that time. Apart from the grave
effect of giving somebody a McGirr
lott’ry ticket and seeing it win £12,000,
the notion of decorating gambling tickets
with the symbols of Christmas must
nearly hit what the Americans would
call an all-time low in public taste.
“Tackline S”: Christmas Eve, 1944,
found an Australian corvette flotilla in
Colombo Harbor. Just up from Aussie,
beer supplies in the wardroom were so
good that none would sell his thirst for
50 quid. Parties roamed from‘ship to
ship, but with the dawn came the hang-
over. Chief engineer of one ship, easing
the head in the morning breeze, remorse-
fully surveyed the masthead
Christmas-trees, fervently hoping the
C.-in-C. hadn’t noticed a reduction in the
number of his garden shrubs. Slowly his
gaze turned towards the base ship. His
hdftrt missed a beat. Rushing white-faced
to the captain’s cabin he gasped: “Hi,
skipper, a bloke’s hanged himself.” C.O.’
turning pale at the gills, rushed out to 5
see the tragic sight at Caradoc’s yard-
arm. “Strewth, Chief,” he said, “so he
has. Signalman,” he bawled, “look at
that, call them up and tell them.” Rub-
bing Morpheus from his' eyes he looked
again. His tone changed as he spat out
‘Chief, you blasted fool, it’s Father
Christmas.”
• * * •
Bilhooley”; ’Tis a habit of mine to
hunt through newspapers looking for
strange or bizarre place-names, and
mostly the news-item that follows the
name is of a pattern with it. Thus a
conventional name like Charlton will
have some conventional news, whereas a
name like Uranquinty or Alligator Creek
seldom*gets into the news unless to record
some unusual or outlandish occurrence.
I slipped when browsing through
Adelaide “ ’Tiser” the other day and
pounced on the name, Wild Horse Plains.
All it had to report was a strawberry
fete,
* * * *
f C i use ” : A minor tragedy has be-
talien a family in our street. The parents
have been boxing fans from their court-
S " I .P J “ays, and one by one as the five
children came along they, too, became
regular Stadium patrons, all of them be-
tt? ln |dated in the suckling stage,
throughout unemployment, war, the fall
Governments and kings, the marriage
a £d giving in marriage of the elder
children, the family has seldom missed a
.f™ Stadium-night has seen the same
ritual followed over the years—the early
tea, the dressing of all hands, the pro-
cession to tram or bus, the shepherding
to seats at ringside or bleachers accord-
ing to the family finances, and so forth.
And always they’ve had their hero. Long
ago it was Bert Spargo, then Hughie
Dwyer, Jack Haynes,' Fred Henneberry
had their turns. Jack Carroll ruled the
house for years ; so did Ambrose Palmer.
Just before the war they adopted a
“cullud” boxer known as Alabama Kid.
A good and willing pug, the coon held
their esteem until the other day. Can-
berra announced that he must leave Aus-
tralia. The father was distraught when
I met him on a tram and I sympathised.
“Aw, it isn’t that,” the broken worshipper
confided. “But did y’ see in the paper
where his name’s Clarence? Clarence !”
And he fell into the brooding silence of
one who sees in his idol the feet of clay.
* * * *
“Vide”: Adelaide Corporation has de-
clared war on the Town Hall pigeons, and
has armed itself with an airgun to carry
the offensive to the enemy. A grave-
faced councillor assured the Civic Fathers
that the airgun would be used only
against the Town jHall birds and not “in
open warfare on the pigeon life of the
whole city.” “It is a little doubtful
whether the airgun’s target will be
achieved,” he added. “The pigeons have
increased until they have become as great
a menace as the rats', and we may need
more than one airgun.” It is believed in
usually well-informed circles that the
battle-orders for the campaign have been
drafted by the Town Clerk (ex-Brigadier
W. C. D. Veale, M.C., D.C.M.). Lord
Mayor McLeay was an infantryman of
World War I and Alderman Barrett; a
former Lord Mayor, was a member of
the Australian Flying Corps, so the cam-
paign should not lack for expert direc-
tion. It is not known whether the birds
are to be shot on the wing only. Another
thing not yet disclosed is the extent, or
existence, of compensation allowances
for citizens struck by) falling pigeons.
* * * *
“Diam”; Another flying-saucer epi-
demic started the other day in Melbourne.
It was scotched by a little science. Shin-
ing objects gently rotating and changing
color were seen moving slowly across the
sky from the outer suburbs towards
Richmond, and dozens of other compe-
tent observers! reported similar phe-
nomena in other districts, with the usual
trimmings. The stage was set for an out-
break of national hysteria when the ob-
servatory announced that they were bal-
loons sent up to collect information on
the behavior of the upper air currents or
something.
• * • «
“B. A. Ker”: A type of Australian that
intrigues me is the fellow whose life is
made up of a series of gyrations. He is
quite plentiful and, from his conversation,
never does anything without turning
round. If he races the wife home he
has to turn round and get his own tea.
Should the missus want to go to the
pictures he has to turn round and take
her. Nearly every week he has to turn
“Hell have to be boiled — I got a cake in the oven."
round and fork out the price of school-
books or something, and then “they”
have the hide to turn round and say
we’ve got free education! If he gives
somebody a few bob to put on a horse
for him the fellow is just as likely to turn
round and forget it, or perhaps turn round
and put it on something else. Duplicity
is invariably accompanied by a complete
turn, and a liar always turns round be-
fore making an utterance. There are
hosts of other examples, but the wife’s
just going up the street and if I don’t
hurry I’ll have to turn round and post
this myself.
* * * •
“Simon”; The suggestion of handbags
for men has nothing new about it except
the name. Years ago lawyers and such
“And was everything satisfactory?”
carried a handy covered-frame article
called a brief-bag. Soon all the cityites
carried them, if only to camouflage their
lunch. The present-day equivalent would
be a concertina-gussetted “folio” that
would be light and flat and give the
owner the appearance of a man of im-
portance carrying documents of State. In
addition there would be nothing to pre-
vent his emptying his 14 pockets into it
and allowing his clothes to hang straight.
* * * *
“Sixenate”; The verbal slip becomes
most amusing when it is made by one
who ought to know better, and a Sydney
Lower Court laughed when a gent, one de-
clared that his client had been “acquitted
without a stain on his curmudgeon.”
The lawyer, who has a sort of mnemonic
system of jotting words on a slip of paper
to remind him of points he wishes to
make, had slipped (so he told me) after
picking up the clue from “escutcheon” to
the next word, which was to remind him
to bring out that the plaintiff was gener-
ally regarded as a surly cow.
* * * *
“Zake”: The jaundiced view often ex-
pressed by crusted old codgers that
present-day kids are a bunch of pansies
compared with the kids in their day is
one with which I have always stoutly
disagreed. But I’m beginning to have
my doubts: in a city window the other
day I saw advertised a billycart sleekly
streamlined and of brightly-painted
tubular steel. It was
obviously designed
for a mother’s darl-
ing in a velvet suit
and Little Lord
Fauntleroy collar
who parted his hair in
the middle. It prob-
' ably had hydraulic
brakes. Any kid in
the place I was
brought up in who
came out with a
thing like that on
Christmas morning
and dared to call it
a billycart would
have suffered the
supreme humiliation
of being called
“Percy” or having
the rest of the kids
raise their caps to
him as in deference
to the weaker sex.
For the greatest
thing about a billy-
cart was the fun in
building it from a
fruit-case and the
axle and wheels you
kidded the old man
to spring for at the
hardware store.
Then you helped
yourself to a bit
of mum’s clothes-line for the steering-
ropes. The brake was, of course, the
case-hardened sole of your foot, stuck
out over the box. And who was the
greatest hero? Why, the kid who after
the inevitable spill could boast of having
the greatest number of splinters extracted
from various parts of, his anatomy.
Away with your streamlined parody that
brings down an honored name;
“Chevroford”: Long attendances at
school of Victorian schoolboys, past and
present, have recently been the subject
of a newspaper symposium, some model
scholars claiming an unbroken record of
10 years’ continuous attendance. Good
enough for them; but the days I fondly
remember are when an uncle of mine, a
traveller in wine and a humane fellow,
used to turn up at my school and tell the
headmistress that my mother had given
me permission to go out with him in his
buggy for nature-study. The nature-
study consisted in a long drive through the
lovely Adelaide hills, stops at taverns in
German townships where nothing but
German was spoken, and, I regret to say,
raids on farmers’ orchards when I took
the reins and drove slowly on while my
uncle filled the back of the buggy
with cherries and peaches, then, when the
farmer appeared with a shotgun, leapt
hastily aboard and we galloped off.
Perhaps I learnt more on those trips than
I did within the school walls.
* * * *
“Becks” on comets and comet-gazers:
Although some observers have claimed to
have seen it rushing across the sky and wagging
its tail like a dog, the comet at present adorning
the western heavens has not so far caused the
panic and apprehension that its great-great-
uncles produced among our great-great-grand-
fathers. Until Halley established that comets
were more or less law-abiding wanderers travel-
ling in predetermined paths all manner of earthly
woes and misfortunes were attributed to their
influence. The Norman Conquest, the Fall of
Constantinople and the Great Plague of Lon-
don were a few of the historic events ascribed
to the malevolence of comets which coincided
•with their occurrence, and even at the begin-
ning of last century they still took a lot of
blame although they came in for a little praise
as well. The Great Comet Of 1811 received the
credit for the abundance of the crops in Europe
and also for the excellence of the vintage of
that year—Comet Wine pays tribute to the
superstition. Eighteen eleven was also noted
lor the exceptionally large number of twins
born; the comet, of course, was to blame, and
especially so for the quads bom to a shoe-
wife in Whitechapel. Wasps were
scarce in England that year and flies were
reported to have been stricken with blindness,
both phenomena the work of the comet. In
Germany comets seem to have indulged in the
most freakish pranks. In 1668 one
“caused” widespread mortality among cats in
Westphalia, and a later one was held respon-
imn an e Pidemic of sneezing. Even in
1910, when Halley’s comet made its last appear-
ance, no virtuous German maiden would venture
out of doors after dark on account of the old
wives tales of the disturbing influence of comets
on healthy German males.
* * * *
“Macnell”: Have always been im-
pressed by the nice balance the Navy
seems to strike between the old and the
new. On a modern warship, for example,
the bosun’s mate walks a quarter of a
mile round the ship piping libertymen to
clean; on the bridge the captain can
flick a switch and speak through speakers
into every compartment in the ship. As
an evolution boats are hoisted by hand,
long lines of men manning the falls along
the upper deck, obeying the shrill cadence
of a bosun’s pipe. But, if necessary, a
couple of turns of the falls can be
whipped around an electric winch and
the boat hoisted in seconds. A signal-
man using a code in use for hundreds of
years semaphores a message to ships in
company, while his opposite number on
the bridge can speak to the same ships
direct by radio-telephone. There is one
aspect which remains unchanged—sea-
manship. A recent signal from the
Admiral to the squadron emphasised this,
when he drew all ranks’ attention to the
fact that, “while the Navy’ has been
modernised to keep step with scientific
developments, seamanship still does, and
always will, constitute the Navy’s chief
concern.”
THE COMET.
• “The newly-discovered comet, visible in the
south-west after sunset or before sunrise, Is unlikely
to reappear for a thousand years, according to the
N.S.W. Government Astronomer.”
Watch out for the comet!
There radiates from it
An eyeful, our experts explain,
That no living being
Will ever be seeing
Way up in the heavens again.
When darkness approaches or planets grow pale,
Watch out for its nucleus, coma and tail.
The comet of Halley
Runs true to a tally,
A schedule exact and precise,
Thus palpably giving
The fairly long-living
Good hopes of observing it twice.
As punctual as clockwork we know it appears
After evTy abeyance of seventy years.
But this new arrival,
Not even survival
To good old Methuselah’s span
Will give you a chance of
Obtaining a glance of
When next it returns to the stage.
So keep it in view, if you can, for a spell
And bid it, to follow, a hail, a farewell.
If you sense, like the Romans,
In comets the omens
Of earthly upheavals in store
Apply to those papers
Whose space-filling capers
Include astrological lore.
The oracles swift at discerning what lies
Ahead of existence by watching the skies.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
BOOKS: THE IDEAL GIFTS
THE AUSTRALIAN BOOK OF TRAINS, by J. H. & W. D. Martin.
A fascinating book, lavishly illustrated. io '~
THIS SIDE OF INNOCENCE, by Taylor Caldwell.
Who again proves her pre-eminence as a story teller. n/b uo .>.
ROAMING AROUND AUSTRALIA, by Frank Clune. dpll - ht
There is plenty to interest and amuse the thousands of readers who delight
in his unconventional style. Illustrated. " / ' p
GREAT ILLUSTRATED CLASSICS
TH lte®e A csot N ofThe“a T mous Arabian Nights stories with full page colour.
17/6 (post. Oil.).
BLACK BEAUTY, by Anna Sewell.
Full page illustrations.
The much appreciated Gift —a subscription to the
Sydney Book Club for a friend in Town or Country.
Catalogue with all particulars post free.
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LID.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY. MA6511.
“Jasby”: My wife and I were discus-
sing what our present misrulers are
pleased to regard as the bad old days of
1938. “At any rate,” she said, “we could
buy what we liked then. No food
rationing, no clothing coupons; you
could buy soap without going to half-a-
dozen shops in search of it; and every-
thing was delivered to your door.” I
took up the theme. “Yes, and there was
plenty of beer and you could pick your
brand of smokes. And look at houses.
D’you remember when we decided to
leave the flat and take a cottage? Agents
rushing us around an cars from place to
place almost begging us to become their
tenants. We must have looked at two
dozen houses before we made bur
choice.” “Twenty-seven,” returned my
spouse ; “I counted them.” “Same with
cars,” I went on. “If anyone let it be
known they were thinking of buying a
car they were besieged by agents.
Free trial, all sort of gadgets thrown
in. They’d even offer to split the
commission with you.” I paused
with a nostalgic sigh. My seven-
year-old youngster’s eyes were shining.
“Go on, daddy,” he urged. “Tell me some
more about it.” The bad old days may
have been bad, but to a child of the
planned-economy era they sound like a
fairy-tale,
* * * *
“W.P.T.” : Some idea of the modern
trend of school education can be gauged
by a recent Quiz Kids session. Three
girls, picked for their special ability, did
not know the date of Empire Day, yet
the same children were able to answer
questions on mythology, ancient history,
Shakspeare and the United States.
» * *
“Plop”: Every Tuesday night I eat
steak and onions for my tea; I look
forward to ’em, mouth watering on the
tram-journey home. Last Tuesday my
plate was loaded with salad. I found on
hurt inquiries that the younger Plop
was to blame, but not wholly. The in-
direct culprit was. some ass of a pilot
who recently broke a round-the-world
record. My youngster, who possesses a
good imagination, was apparently on
the first hop of this flight, doing it with an
arm-flapping motion across the yard,
when my wife remembered the butcher
and closing time. She called the lad and
he headed her way, still flapping his arms.
Then, she tells me, he lay down m the
middle of the yard, and nothing would
move him for two minutes, when, with
mighty whirrings, he managed to get his
motors started again. He ultimately
taxied in under the window. “Why didn t
you come straight over? What did you
lie down for?” demanded the missus.
She was taken aback by the reply: “I
was having a night’s rest in Bombay
you didn’t expect me to do the trip with-
out sleep, did you?” And that is why I
ate salad.
* * * *
“Bo”: For the. first time in my memory
department-store Santa Clauses have
looked really comfortable in their syn-
thetic face-mats and red and white trap-
pings, so wintry-like has been Sydney’s
pre-Christmas weather. This has rendered
them so benign that possibly over their
after-work schooners they have even re-
frained from reviling inquiring brats in
general. I recall one
Santa of years ago. When a small girl
gazed up at him wide-eyed and holding
in her hand a rose, he tilted up her sweet
innocent face and said, “My, that’s a
beautiful flower —can I smell it?” He
bent down, took a deep sniff, and as
he straightened up his eyes took on that
“There’s only this one available at present, and you’ll have to ballot for it.”
ingrowing look, his head went back, he
gulped several cubic feet of air. Then as
he ejected the bugleful of pepper in one
shattering sneeze that made a passing
old lady faint, rattled everything on the
far crockery counter and blew his teased-
wool ziff on to the floor, the angel
skipped exultantly to where her father
stood grinning a few paces away and
shrilled, “Gee, pop —it worked again!”
* * * *
“Ad Rem”: “Passun’s” offhanded refer-
ence to jumping the Spirit of Progress to
Melbourne with only fourpence in his
kick (B. 29/10/’47) has me licked. A
lot of my Air Force cobbers used to buzz
off from parade every Friday night, bee-
line it for Spencer-street, and, after duck-
ing under stationary trains, dodging
moving ones and crossing rails, scramble
aboard the Spirit as she was moving out
and thus spend a brief leave home in
Sydney. On Saturday they’d reverse the
process at the Sydney end and be back in
time for Monday’s parade. Inspired by
such courage I tried something on a
smaller scale —once. Racing to golf one
Sunday morning I tore down the ramp
and, without having time to snatch a
ticket, just managed to throw myself on
the train as it was moving out. At the
very next station a gentleman who looked
and acted as though he had gastric ulcers
climbed into the compartment and said
“Tickets, please!” It took six prize-
winning letters to get out of it.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Your car stalls fair on the
tramway crossing of the biggest inter-
section in the city; while you concentrate
on the exact combination of starter and
accelerator caresses needed to get her
going again other cars and trams bank
up all round. All is going well—you
darned near had it that time —when sud-
denly from about six cars behind, the
Menace makes his presence known.
“Bloop, Bleep, Honk” goes this hair-
brained ass who thinks he’s in a hurry,
although he knows quite well that his
horn-gangling will soon render you un-
able to start even the windscreen wiper.
Well, fellow-stallers, I’ve found a remedy
for this nitwit, its inventor being a bloke
who found himself at the head of a
classic traffic-jam, stood the impatient
honking for a time and then got out of
his car, walked back to the honker’s car,
reached in through the window and
switched off his ignition, took out the key,
and hurled it far into the crowd. He
then headed back to his own car, started
it and drove away.
* *• * *
“Cauboy”: An amusing controversy
has broken out in Melbourne oyer the
Hong Kong Governor’s expression of
delight at finding older girls in a school
at which he presented prizes were
allowed to use lipstick. A symposium of
Victorian seminaries for young ladies,
however, revealed that local head-
mistresses are dead against it, though one
pedagogue, age not stated, innocently
admitted that she used lipstick herself
“to brighten herself up” but didn’t think
the girls needed it. The funny thing
about it is that fresh young girls should
wish to throw away'the advantage Nature
gives them over their elders because of
fashion. The middle-aged woman puts
on paint, powder and lipstick, of course,
in order to reduce the distance between
her and the flapper. She wants to look
like 20. Twenty, however well endowed
by Nature, idiotically follows her example
and does her best to look like 50,
* * * *
“Sach”; One hoarder was hoist with
his own petard. Heeding the rumor that
notes were to be called in he converted
a considerable portion of his holdings
into two-shilling pieces. These he stored
in a neat little cache in the rafters, but
didn’t take ipto consideration the weight
of a hoard of two-bobs. The other
day they came crashing through the ceil-
ing as he sat below listening to the radio.
Result: a cut on his face, a large bump
on his head, and a bill for repairs to the
ceiling.
* * * »
“Jindivick”: Army scrounging, is it?
Moving into a new area, the boys found
a large roadside hoarding advertising
petrol and brought it home to make an
amenities hut. “No one can buy that
petrol now anyway,” they said; “it’s all
pool petrol.” After a couple of days an
irate landowner turned up to claim the
hoarding—he had a fight on his hands
with the petrol company over the
hoarding and had refused to per-
mit them to remove it until certain
dues were paid. It took all the O.C.’s
persuasive powers and half a bottle of
Scotch from the mess to persuade him
to go home again—the boys to follow
and re-erect the hoarding.
* * * * *
“Slot”: Touching that word “blue”
(B. 3/12/’47) and its usefulness to writers
of lyrics. An article in a recent Ameri-
can magazine discusses Billy Rose, who
set out to learn the art of song-writing
and spent months dissecting song-hits of
the previous 30 years. Of the “silly-
syllable” songs Billy discovered that those
built around the “oo” sound were the
most successful. On this principle he
carefully constructed Barney Google
(with the goo-goo-godgly eyes) and made
a fortune. In eight years he wrote more
than 300 songs; forty were hits. I feel
tolerably safe in releasing this as it is
now close to Christmas. A little earlier
would have given our local laureate of
the garbage-collectors time to turn out
such a heartrending ode for attach-
ment to the handle of my tin that I might
have sprung a tip huge enough to put the
collector where skies are always blue and
to land me cruelly in the stew. Ooh-hoo.
* * * *
“Macnell”: On Kerguelen Island,
lonely in the Southern Ocean, a scuttled
steamer, bow-deep in sand,
offers all the elements of a
R. L. Stevenson romance.
A party from raider-seeking
cruiser Australia found the
beached vessel with her vitals
blown open, decks littered
with spent cartridges, name
gouged out and the photo-
graph of a lovely girl in a ran-
sacked cabin. On the beach
were seven graves. They
were opened, but no identi-
fication could be made of
the bodies. Further up the
beach a circle of green grass
gave the clue to an under-
ground storage for 50 oil-
fuel drums. Later, in Mada-
gascar, the petty-officer who
had picked up the photo,
gave it to the Chief of
Police. After three months
he received a letter from
the girl herself! Recognis-
ing her as a French girl
resident in Madagascar the
Police Chief had returned
her photo. She had given
it to her husband before he
sailed away on a trip from which,
now, he would never return. So
one of the bodies was identified, and the
ship as well. But how those seven men
met their deaths, who buried them, why
their ship steamed so far south, whom
she fought, who scuttled her, why 50
oil-drums had been buried so carefully
and what happened to the rest of the
crew are still mysteries.
* * *
“Bar-20 Kid”: Writers of Western
thrillers can now inject a new angle into
their stories since the manager of the
Rocking F, way down in Nevada, has
filed a claim on all water passing over the
ranch in cloud-form. He did this follow-
ing experiments at rainmaking with dry-
ice pellets from planes. He didn’t know
what would happen if the rain thus made
blew on to another ranch —“It would be
still our water, but we don’t yet know
how we’d get it back” —and therein lie
many new angles. For instance, a stoYy
of Hopalong Cassidy riding herd on the
stampeding rain and holding off rain-
rustlers with both guns should go well.
Or how about Cactus Cyril courting the
daughter of the saloon-keeper in Gun-
powder City, being captured by his rival,
Ace-spot Arthur, the tinhorn gambler
pretending to be an agent of the London
Missionary Society, and being left bound
in a coulee while Ace-spot steals a plane
and a packet of dry-ice and takes off
from Mystery Mesa to fly over the clouds
and precipitate a flood into the coulee?
I don’t know how Cy. would get out of
it, but that' shouldn’t be beyond any
writer of Westerns.
THE BOOKMAKER’S BURDEN.
“Asked -what would be the probable effect of the
Sydney race clubs’ decision to levy a one per
cent, tax on bookmakers’ turnovers, a leading pon-
ciller said it would make them more careful in the
odds they laid and less inclined to take undue risks.”
It hurts him, as the horse that feels the driver
Plying the whip, long-suffering Ikey Mo,
To have another bob in every fiver
He makes subtracted from his hard-earned
dough.
Still, there’s at least one sapient conmver
Who points a way to soften down the blow.
Warning his comrades to conserve their wads
By laying less remunerative odds.
He'd have them guard themselves against a
schism
Or gap in their accounts, a yawning void,
By acting on the wholesome aphorism
That Dr. Evatt recently employed,
Combining caution with their optimism.
Punters, of course, might be a bit annoyed
At first, but soon would cease to fume and fret,
Being always forced to take what they can get.
He indicates the brother-operators
Who with himself the field are wont to lay
Must be less generous to speculators
Than (inferentially) they are today,
Submit no longer to be imitators
Of prodigals who throw good brass away
Through sheer goodheartedness the sort of
thing .
So oft associated with the Ring!
To keep the clan among the moneyspinners
And all of the amenities expressed
In.the consumption of un-couponed dinners '
And the assurance of being srriartly dressed,
He’d have them cramp the odds ’gainst likely
winners
And pepper “dead ’uns” with an extra zest,
I shouldn’t wonder, with the fixed intent
Of getting back the race clubs’ one per cent.
Ah, well, whatever measures may be taken
Fresh impositions on their backs to cram.
I’ve one belief from which I’ll not be shaken
A single solitary tinker’s damn:
The books will always carry home the bacon
Or skin—if’you prefer the phrase, the lamb —■
And any further dues that come their way
Their hopeful clients in the end will pay.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE SERVICE MAN
THE GOVERNMENT AND SANDAKAN
“Ek Dum”: The maps which appear
on this page illustrate graphically how
much explaining the Commonwealth
Government has to do about its failure
to lift a finger to save the men of Sanda-
kan.
The facts are that as early as June,
1943, A. M. Blain, M.P., one of the
p.-0.-w., sent out of the prison camp at
the Eight-Mile Peg a letter addressed to
the Minister for the Army, Mr. Forde.
Mr, Blain says that, so far as his
memory serves him after the long lapse
of time, his letter read somewhat as fol-
lows —it was necessarily brief, since it
had to be concealable in the smallest
possible space:
Dear Frank; Things are very tough here,
and we are badly in need of medicines,
and the sick are dying. The messenger
will explain everything to you. Please
recompense the messenger for what he has
done on an arduous and perilous journey.
Macalister.
The original intention was that this letter
should be taken out of the camp to Chin
THE ALLIES AND SANDAKAN.
These maps illustrate the position of the Allies juat before or during the two
Sandakan death marches. The very dark areas are those which, according to the
American Commander-in-Chief’s official maps, were under Allied control on the
dates which appear on the maps. On January I, 1945, the Allies were strong enough
to pass a very powerful fleet within 250 miles of Sandakan, which was tenuously
held by only a company or so of Japs without local air or naval support worth the
name, to attack the very heart of the Japanese Philippine forces in the Lingayon Gulf,
Even in that landing they met little resistance locally.
On January 28, a month later, the Japs began to move the A.I.F. prisoners in
Sandakan camp—455 only were considered fit to march—on foot to Ranau, 163
miles away. They went in daily batches of 50, carrying packs weighing 40 to 50
pounds, many of them barefooted. Only 320 men, among them 120 British, arrived at
Ranau. On May I, a week before the second march began, and a few days before 288
hospital cases were murdered or turned out to crawl into the jungle like wild beasts,
the maps show that Tarakan was being attacked and that the Allies held land bases
only 100 miles fom Sandakan. They held Tawi Tawi. only 30 miles from the north-
eastern tip of the mainland on the main guerrilla communication route with Sandakan
100 miles away. By May 15, while the second dreadful march had run only half its
course, Sandakan was closely in the Allied naval and air pincer, north-east and
south-east. Only 183 out of 536 of the living skeletons who set out from Sandakan
arrived in the Ranau area on May 26.
Of the two Ranau forces and the 288 sick who survived in May, plus 100 British
who were sent to Labuan—1500 at least alive in January when Lingayen was attacked
—only six lived to tell the tale. The Commonwealth Government never lifted a
finger to save the others.
Cbee Kong, a young and loyal Chinese
whom Mr. Blain afterwards brought to
Australia at his own expense. He was
to make his escape and find his way to
Australia.
This plan was conceived because the
physical make- up of Chin would have
allowed him to disguise himself as a
Malay, and because it was thought that
he would have a better chance of getting
through than a European.
He, moreover, could have been of
more use in giving information since he
knew Sandakan, its environs and
approaches in a way no recently-arrived
p.-0.-w. could have known them.
He was primed to tell the Aus-
tralian authorities what the conditions
were and the chances of success of a
relief force, which were considered even
then to be good.
This plan miscarried. . The letter was
taken out, but a Sergeant Wallace, who
had made an independent escape, secured
possession of it and brought it to Aus-
tralia.
He was, however, a long time in reach-
ing the Commonwealth. He told the
writer that he had handed the letter to
General Blarney’s aide-de-camp in Bris-
bane, and that he had heard no more
from the Minister or anybody else.
It will be seen from the maps that 14
days before the first death march began
on January 28, 1945, North Borneo had
been bypassed and the Allies were within
about 250 rhiles of Sandakan.
On May 1 they were actually in sight
of Borneo, from two points at least in
their controlled area. Had they landed
then they would have met no resistance.
They were in possession of the islands
from which messengers between the
Philippine guerrillas and the p.-0.-w. had
been passing backwards and forwards for
two years.
Yet no move was made and over 800
men, maimed, ill, beaten and starved,
died in consequence. This at a time when
large forces ol Australians were sitting
down in New Guinea chafing for action,
and when forces were also available to
attack and hold areas on either side of
the prison camp, at Tarakan and Labuan.
The Government’s position will take a
lot of explaining. .
Recruiting Failures.
“Ek Dum”: It is symptomatic that the
record of enlistments was mentioned last
week only in a six-line paragraph on a
far-back page in “S. M. Herald,” and in
most papers not at all.
It was a devastating admission of
failure, one which calls for the resigna-
tion of the Minister-in-charge, and for a
large consignment of sackcloth for the
community.
The Government’s ambitions for a per-
manent military force —“The Australian
Regular Army”—were certainly not
ambitious. They involved, as provision for
the defence of a continent of 3,000,000
square miles and seven and a half mil-
lion people, the enlistment of 19,000
officers and other ranks to form three
infantry battalions, an armored unit and
1100 corps troops.
To recruit this stupendous force the
“Government” set out with all the
energies and means at its disposal. Large
advertisements depicting the joys of Army
life and the twelve-pound-a-week exist-
ence of sergeants ; city exhibitions which
dislocated traffic for days (very fine ex-
hibitions, it should be said; and a credit
to the Army), and other similar devices
squandered enough to produce a new
Wehrmacht.
All it produced between August 5
and December 5 was 1388 accepted re-
cruits.
The reasons are pretty clear. In the
first place the Government advertising
harped on the theme that the Army is
an Army of tradesmen. Its glamors and
its glories were subordinated as if they
were something disgraceful.
In these days a skilled tradesman or
even an apprentice finds no attraction in
the fact that he carries on his trade in
uniform, which simply means, from his
point of view, that he carries it out under
seven-day-a-week discipline instead of
being able to work a five-day week when
he feels like it and have a union to ex-
ploit a grievance when he has one or
thinks he has one.
Actually during the period of the re-
cruiting campaign the papers have been
full of advertisements beseeching young
and inexperienced girls to come along to
beautiful factories and apparently do
nothing but drink tea and lounge in
glamorous rest-rooms for five days a week
on a full private’s pay.
The failure is not the fault of the
Army. Nobody has worked harder than
the various commands. Officers of the
highest ranks, who were five years
or more away from their homes on active
service, much of their lives during that
period spent under dreadful strain, have
returned to plunge into a struggle to keep
alive the military organisation which
helped to save this country from invasion.
If the average manager were asked to
work the hours which these senior officers
work, and to give up his private life as
thoroughly as they give up theirs, he
would be up in rebellion.
Much of their work is optional, and
it must be bitter to realise that the failures
are not their own, and that their objec-
tives are actually opposed and spragged at
every turn by the very people who keep
their Ministers in office—unions domi-
nated by Communists which are opposed
to any defence which may stand in the
way of insurrection and the consumma-
tion of the objectives of Russian im-
perialism.
It is a wonder that morale in the per-
manent forces remains as high as it is.
Of the standards maintained there was a
magnificent exhibition at the “retreat”
ceremonies which ended the military year
of the Eastern Command at Victoria
Barracks, Sydney, on December 12.
In Sydney at any rate, permanent
officers and men and citizen soldiers turn
up in hundreds at the monthly lectures to
the reserve of officers. The United Ser-
vice Institution has about doubled in
size during the year.
Volunteers are not lacking to officer
the new citizen units which are to come
into existence next June, even though
many of these volunteers are men of
moderate means ■ who will have to dip
their hands deeply into their own pockets.
And returned soldiers are everywhere
active.
With the right approach and the right
backing there is no reason why recruits
should not be got in large numbers.
Let the Government, if it is in earnest,
take the step which will achieve success.
Let it call a public conference of union
leaders and businessmen and ask them to
back the campaign with their voices.
Let them build the citizen forces by
applying the persuasions of the unions
to inducing young unionists to do their
duty by the country.
If union persuasion is stepped up as
successfully as it is in some other direc-
tions there need be no more talk about
the need for compulsory service, though
needed it will assuredly be unless there is
an adequate voluntary response to the
call for men to defend a country now
wide-open to enemies—domestic as well
as foreign. If the occasion arose, as it
may, Australia would be without the
means of quelling incipient civil, war
which were invoked and applied so reso-
lutely by the Schuman Government in
France.
Arab v. Jew.
“Ek Dum”: Events in Palestine and
in adjacent countries are proceeding in
the best tradition of Edom. The bene-
ficiaries of the “settlement” of the Jewish
question by Dr. and other geniuses
of U.N.O. are doing their utmost to
settle their opponents and any innocent
British who happen to get in the way.
One typical day’s events ;
Jews with Stem guns drove Arabs out of
a synagogue near the Jaffa gate in
Jerusalem; one Arab killed and several
Jews wounded. British troops restored
order.
A sentry at a hospital killed a Jew. He
said four Jews had fired on him.
A bomb went off inside an Arab bank
in Haifa, killing several Arabs.
Meanwhile both Arabs and Jews are
mobilising their forces to turn sporadic
raiding, in which 77 Jews and 41 Arabs
were killed and hundreds of others on
both sides wounded in a few days, into
a real war. Maturity for this will, how-
ever, have to await the departure of the
British in August. In the meantime the
Arab world is mobilising hnd, apart
from military action, Azzam Pasha and
other leaders of the League declare that
they , have a sure source of modern arms
in Pakistan and in some South Ameri-
can countries.
Neither side has imposing forces, but
they are likely to make up in ferocity
what they lack in skill and arms.
The Arab Armies
The Arabs, if neighboring States are
drawn in, have the numbers, but it will
be very difficult to secure any cohesion
between the various forces. Egyptians
are unlikely to fight except with their
tongues. Even if they do feel the urge
to rush to battle they have very little in
the way of arms, few officers of even
moderate experience and not enough
technicians to fill a bucket. Except for
a few ack-ack batteries, the Egyptian
warriors have not seen service since
1898, when they were led by British
officers, even though large slices of two
great wars have been fought on their soil.
The Palestinian Arab forces will be
strictly limited. The Mufti has a guard
which may run to a battalion. Apart
from this there is only the Palestine
Youth Movement, which might raise a
division,
Irak has a force of about 30,000 men,
weak in transport and in tanks and with
no heavy artillery. Largely British-
trained, it is better than any other armies
of the League, and has seen a little
active service. Its gendarmerie would
make almost a division of tough, experi-
enced guerrilla troops, capable of carry-
ing on a very effective campaign on
Boer lines.
Syria could provide perhaps 25,000
men, armed to the standards of about
1914, and lovers of a shady palm. The
Transjordan Arab Legion, a couple of
brigades, has the best fighting men and
the best-armed of the lot. Quite a bit of
this force saw service under modern
conditions in Warld War 11.
The Lebanese could probably muster
7QOO men.
If the whole boiling, including Saudi
Arabia, with roughly 15,000 regulars,
could put 75,000 effective men into the
field it would be a surprise, having re-
gard to logistics.
Jewish Women Fight
The Jewish forces are more compact.
There are 700,000 Jews in Palestine, and
they have no objection to womenfolk
joining in, as was proved in the Arab
rebellion a year or so before World
War 11.
Every section of the Jews has its own
private army. The Hagana is said to
have 75,000 men and women capable of
handling small arms efficiently and up
to ' normal British infantry standards,
though they have so far shown little
prowess, and their contribution to the
defeat of the Hitler tyranny was generally
small except in propaganda.
The Irgun Zvai Leumi might make up
3000 or 4000 fighters. ■ The Stern Gang’s
strength is a matter of conjecture. Cer-
tainly it runs into hundreds. It knows
no rules of war and never heard of the
Geneva Conventions.
Organising ability and access to modern
armament are advantages which the
Jews? certainly possess. But whether
either side is capable of more than a
guerrilla war of gradual attrition remains
to be seen.


THE STUMPER STUMPED.


REMEMBER -
ROAD COURTESY
Means
OAD SAFETY!
ft
iiM*
10
p
ft*
ddq
Published in the interests of
Safer Motoring by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
C3OC/2791
JOE'S STUD
By
BRIAN JAMES
t
course,
| I yououghten
to,” the
wife had
said beforehand, and
“Didn’t I tell you?”
afterwards. But as
the wife invariably
said these things on
all manner of occa-
sions, I didn’t con-
sider they particu-
larly signified just
for that once.
However, Joe
Porter and I had
been friends of that
bosom kind for as
long as we could re-
member, and even
before that. If you
ever saw Joe you wouldn’t forget him,
on account of the length of his neck and
the queer size of his head on the top of it.
Otherwise Joe was ordinary enough,
though his red hair might have been a
little outstanding, and he had a peculiar
habit of opening his blue eyes very wide
as though in childish surprise, and then
of closing them to little slits in a way that
bespoke no end of low cunning.
A good fellow, Joe. But I must admit
that his incessant tendency to boasting
was a sore trial to bear.
“I stretch right back,” says Joe,
apropos of nothing and without provoca-
tion, “right back, I do, to the days of the
convicts in these parts. And my ancestor
took part in the Riots at Castle Hill, near
the very beginnings of things> He was an
Irish patriot, you’ll understand, and I’m
proud of it.”
I’d heard it so often over the years, but
being a friend, I’d humor Joe and say:
“And well might you be proud. Tell us
all about it.” In any case, Joe intended
telling all about it.
JOE also had a trick of knowing every-
thing, which tends to be a source of
distress, even to a close friend.
“Now, I’ll tell youj” says Joe, nearly
shutting his eyes to prove you yourself
knew nothing; and very pig-headed Joe
was when you tried to prove that it was
he who knew nothing at all. In the course
of all of which, there was no blinking the
fact that Joe was a liar of the provoca-
tive and unnecessary kind.
And Joe was impulsive, too, starting all
manner of things out of a clear sky, as
it were, and with no apparent rhyme or
reason. His going on to the land at all
was an example of this, he being quite
comfortably situated in Leichhardt and
following quite successfully a decent job
in the Council.
“I’m sick of it,” says Joe, “and the
land is calling me, I’m going right out
into the wilds to carve out a home in it.
And don’t you forget that I stretch right
back to those Riots at Castle Hill. It’s
in the blood.”
Strangely enough, even to me, Joe
meant it and took on a place right out
in the bush beyond that same Castle Hill.
On what terms he took the place I never
discovered, though he told me often
enough, but with such a trimming of fact
and fancy that I could never follow him
right. I went once to see the place,
and pleasant enough it was getting there,
but slow too, for there was a dawdling
sort of train from Parramatta heading
northward, in a general direction, and
eventually sitting down at last with a final
wheeze and a grunt amid great piles of
bushel cases and fowl crates, at a rural
spot called Rogan’s Hill.
* At Rogan’s, Joe was waiting for me,
and arguing some point or other with
the official in charge, and with some lanky
orange-grower. He finished the argu-
ment —which meant the other party had
walked away—and then he saw me, in
a patronising sort of fashion, as though
I were an intrusive newchum in strange
parts beyond my coping with.
“So you managed to get here, Jack?”
—just as if I had been following hard on
the tracks of the original explorer of that
distant country, and the getting there
was a clever thing for such as me.
We never shook hands, understanding
each other so well as to dispense with
such formalities.
“Those fellows now” —Joe inclined his
head at a fearful angle towards the official
and the orange-grower —“Those fellows
were trying to tell me,...” Joe outlined
the argument in great detail, and finished
it out on me.
In the meantime we made for Joe’s
sulky, which was tied up to the fence
outside the station yard, or at least the
three-cornered horse was tied to the fence.
Joe carried a whip over his shoulder,
with a handle nearly six feet long, and a
fall and a lash to correspond. It looked
like a whip they might use on a team of
bullocks, but I discovered that Joe had
made it, not without some
good reason, for it allowed
for a variety of flicks in
most unexpected places.
And so it encouraged a
shuffling kind of pace out
of that horse, who otherwise
might never have been
induced to move at all.
The seat of the sulky was
all down one side and all up
the other, owing, as Joe
carefully explained, to the
interesting disparity in the
weight of the Brennans,
Mrs. Brenpan having been
a firm woman much gone
to fat, and Brennan himself
a mere shrimp of a man and much
domineered upon. Joe had bought the
sulky at the Brennan
sale after Mrs.
Brennan died, that
was, and Brennan
himself having no
heart left for any-
thing any more, in a
manner of speaking.
“You’ll have to
take Mr. Brennan’s
side,” said Joe, “for
Mrs. Brennan
always did her own
driving.” Which
meant a constant
tendency to slide
down the seat to-
wards Joe.
“I find,” said Joe,
“that in emergencies,
when a little extra
speed is desired, a shrewd slash on the
knees or a flick on the nose livens Darrel
up in a wonderful way.”
Darrel was the horse’s name, but I
hadn’t the courage to ask why. Joe gave
a demonstration, and Darrel gave a shrug
that ran the full length of him and
seemed to gp out the end of his tail, giv-
ing, as it did so, a most pardonable
illusion of increased speed.
Then Joe used the handle of the whip
to point out things of interest, mostly
pertaining to the infamy of the people
who dwelt by the roadside. Beside their
being steeped in all kinds of misdoings,
they were, so Joe said, very unpro-
gressive.
“They read nothing,” says Joe, “nor
do they ever attempt to improve their
livestock, from their poultry
right up to their horses.”
This had no reference
whatever to Darrel, and
was no reflection upon him.
“It’s like this,” says Joe,
in an argumentative way.
“You can’t improve neither
beast or bird till you get
the right sort of sire. And
even at that it’s a long and
steady process.”
Darrel at the moment
seemed inclined to go down
in one of his corners, and
Joe reminded Darrel not to
forget himself, with a quite
dainty touch in the softest
part of his throat with surprising
success.
“Now, I’ll tell you” Joe resumed,
and went on to unfold his schemes for
setting up a stud farm: “As a beginning
only, mind you, just as a beginning, I’m
starting with the fowls —we have Orping-
tons. Too heavy and too short in the
legs. What’s wanted? It sticks out a
mile—a touch of Game. So I’ve bought
a Game rooster. Not here, yet, but I’m
taking delivery tomorrow. Same with
the goats —breed for milk, I say. What
else are goats for, in a place not so
suited for cows? I’ve purchased a billy
—pure Swiss—to improve the strain.
Horses? Not size, but more speed and
spirit wanted. I know all about horses,
as you may remember.”
WE arrived at last at Joe’s place,
tucked away in a broad gully, with
a considerable quantity of trees all about.
“It’s an old place,” says Joe, rather
unnecessarily. The house looked it, and
the big shed seemed to be nodding at the
house in a friendly way. Joe’s missus
came out, and said to Joe, “So you’re
back, are you?” making a complaint or
accusation of it. Then she said to me,
“How are the family?” as though their
being well at all was no special credit
to me.
I didn’t like Joe’s wife, one of those
thin little women who always know what’s
wrong with everyone. But Joe was used
to her, I suppose. Then she said to me,
but looking at Joe, “This ain’t a bit like
Leichhardt! ”
There were no children —not at home,
that is. The two girls were grown up, one
married and lived at Granville, and the
other worked in the city somewhere.
Sometimes they came out to Joe’s place,
but I hadn’t seen them for years.
After some dinner Joe took me over
the place with much of an air of “Of
course you won’t understand.” He talked
incessantly and expected me to be very
interested. It was a great failing in Joe,
and only our close friendship allowed me
to put up with it.
There was a fair patch of orchard,
lemons and oranges, which Joe said was
no end of work, and little enough one
made out of it. There was a scattering
of black fowls all over the place, a wad-
dling breed of fowls, friendly, clucking,
like stout grandmothers. And they
scratched anything that would be
scratched. There were two nanny-goats,
tied to lillipilli-trees. At the moment they
were both standing, beautifully balanced,
on their hindlegs, and eating the leaves of
some sort of fruit-tree,
Down where the farm commenced to
slope towards a rocky sandstone gorge
{Continued at foot of next page.)


were a couple of mares browsing about.
Darrel had joined them. All three were
light bay and possessed of a certain
angular formation.
“Those,” said Joe with pride, “are me
brood mares.” And then added —“Not
Darrel, of course. They are just a start.
There’s! money in it —big money, though
it takes time.”
I was to stay at Joe’s for a few days.
It was hard to put up with Joe’s missus,
but we kept out of hejj way most times,
and I tried as best I could to ignore her
everlasting pointers about Leichhardt.
Joe said he had arranged to take de-
livery of his stud stock in the morning,
and would be setting out early, at which
his missus sniffed in a mild, aggravating
way. Joe said it would be a pleasant trip
for me, too, and I might even be handy
to have along, even if I knew nothing
about animals and such.
WE set out early, after getting our own
breakfast. Darrel showed no visible
enthusiasm over the journey and had to
be flicked on such tender parts as Joe
seemed to reserve for such occasions. At
the Mr. Brennan side of the sulky was
a collection of ropes and bags that were
always’ gravitating to the Mrs, Brennan
end. But it was pleasant enough, too,
in the cool air of summer morning, and
a big star and a humpy-looking moon
starting to turn pale in the dawn,
Joe was in great excitement, and told
me for the fifth time all about the stal-
lion he had bought, A bargain if ever
there was, and only because Joe knew so
much about horses. As he did about
everything else.
Joe was something of an organiser—
I’ll have to say that for him —and no
doubt that was part of his training as a
council worker years ago, and possibly,
too, he had inherited it from the Riots
at Castle Hill, where Joe’s
ancestor had played such a
prominent part, so Joe said,
that they did him the honor
of hanging him for it,
which, according to Joe,
was but a twisted recogni-
tion of marked success.
Well, Joe had mapped out
what he called the route for
the day, very carefully cal-
culated upon distances,
negotiations, possible diffi-
culties as well as the speed
and disposition of Darrel.
“She’s not altogether rigid
like,” says Joe, referring to his plans,
“but it makes all due allowance for the
unforeseen and the elasticities.”
And, incidentally, I must remark, Joe
often worked off upon me these high-
sounding words and phrases and left me
to put up with them as best I could ;
though in fairness I have to admit they
came somewhat natural to Joe—Joe hav-
ing once tried desperately for the selec-
tion for Glebe, one of those city seats
where it was supposed his council job
would make him a great legislator. And
fee would fcax.e got it, too, but for some
very thoughtful constructions in the build
of the ballot-box they used.
However. So we headed first for
Mackie’s', in the direction of Dural, and
Joe gave me an entirely false picture of
the glories to be at Mackie’s. But the
picture was based poetically on the grand
rooster he was to get there, rather than
upon other realistic details
that actually existed.
We arrived at Mackie’s as
the sun, big and red, was
taking a peep at things
through the tree branches,
and we found Mackie walk-
ing down towards the fowl-
run and carrying two heavy
kerosene-tins.
These runs were ram-
shackle affairs of galvan-
ised-iron and twisted wire-
netting and leaning-posts
and great quantities of rusty
fencing-wire. There were
more fowls than I ever thought possible
in one place. And never did I think that
fowls, in their mistaken sense of duty
and industry, could scratch the ground
up so. In fact, there was no ground left
at all in many places, but just bare rock.
I didn’t like the look of that same
Mackie, but that may have been the
wrinkles on his neck or the squint in his
eyes. Joe said he was as “decent as day-
light, and let people s'ay what they liked
of him.”
“Good morning! ” says Mackie to Joe,
and giving me a shrewd, sidelong glance.
as though he were estimating the dressed
weight of me. “Your bird is all nicely
secure in the coop.”
AND there he was sure enough, and
the tallest and lankiest rooster I had
ever seen or imagined.
“You’re getting quality there,” Mackie
went on in a glib s'ort of patter. “Game
by name and game by nature, and worth
his weight in fine gold.”
For a man with a name like Mackie
it really sounded indecent. And all the
time Joe was gloating his very eyes out
over tha rooster, who being so high had
to bend considerably to stand upright in
the coop.
A bedraggled sort of bird he was, of
dull-reddish color and legs like long
sticks. And spurs’ on them like great
fangs, with the toes of him all knobby
and twisted. He had a morose expres-
sion about him, I thought, possibly due
to some great disappointment.
Joe said, by way of judicial summary,
“He’s not what I’d call a young bird
now.”
“And you are right there,” said
Mackie. “His youthful indiscretions are
past, and you are getting the benefit of
his experience.”
Joe and Mackie put the bird, with his
legs tied, into a corn-sack. He fitted the
full length of the sack when he stretched,
and there was a small hole for his head
to stick out of to assist him in breathing
and to see the countryside, too.
(Continued on page 22.)
Leichhardt Pantomime
The First Expedition.
The ten men camp in a night that is like some
day
Haled from a sunken world, stripped of
mummy-cloths,
With years and decay about it for dusk and
shadows.
Through the bizarre prelude of afternoon
Each man felt distance, ponderous, implacable,
Between himself and the others. The two
blackfellows
Stopped chattering, lagged a little behind,
Knowing the signs. The horses stumbled,
stumbled,
Spattered with lather strange after such a
journey.
Later, the fifing of cicadas ceased.
Too sudden. Ears were baffled, and the mind
Still dreamed that shrill spirit of the upper air.
Then, over on the mountains, close, to eastward,
The kindly greens and buffs, tree-color and
stone.
Wilted before a slate-grey, driving phalanx.
Life was gone from the mountains. Abandoned
loaves,
Clouds lay mouldering, friable —there was not
needed
The pitiless lunge of lightning to intensify
Corruption, retreat. JVith cracking staves, the
\empty
Cask of thunder rattled, crag to crag.
But rain held off. The tightened atmospheres
Hacked to the verge of sunset a deep ravine,
And three galahs in unfaltering arrowhead
Dipped in towards the abyss, hurtled far down,
Dots on the flowing, sacrificial red.
They camp. Not night, but day in a sunken
world,
No time for sleeping. Back of the lagoon
Anubis pricks his dingo’s ears. His cry
Balances the thought of light with darkness.
Vigilant,
Among the srecret amulets of stars
Crawls the flat gold scarab of the moon.
Firelight hovers like the substance of wind
Over the scrub and the horses drawn in close;
Eyes of amber sharpen and peer for a second
Along corroded sights of forgotten rifles
Propped against trees. Endless assaults of
blackness
Repulsed by sallies of firelight Gilbert, the
naturalist,
Is planting some precious flowers that he has
found,
Cradling them in his hands like diamonds; now
the Doctor
Says that the Gulf must push its fathomless
Blue disc of water through the bush in another
week;
But no one listens, and his voice fades out
In worse than disbelief. The eyes of the two
blackfellows
Are never still. Dull creak of the hobbles
Fraying at silence, and the cry of a dingo join
In uncanny league.
Terrific assault of blackness!
No living thing, but mountain is the assailant,
But scrub grappling, deadly and cold of limb —
Timeless malice of the Tropics concentrated
To serpent at the heel,
To dust, to twig, reared up and poisonous!
What are the voices, the quick gibbering cries,
But loose rock’s singing on the cliff-face, flurry
of words
Parting the dried lips of a watercourse?
Too late, the countering omen of gunfire.
Change
Has trampled the fire to embers; Gilbert is dead.
And the sheer marvellous speed that left no haft
Clinging in its passage, stamped him back to
earth,
His eyes wide open, gravel on his mouth,
Bleeding no more than one of his flowers might
bleed —
This in his place. But his ghost will hold,
tonight.
Beyond the lagoon, a sleek and narrow head
Turns twice from side to side, and vanishes
Below the hump of a sandhill. Time for sleep.
Through a gap in the hills, they came in sight
of the sea.
Only a deepening of the down-sky azure,
Nor through those miles could come
The green weed in the blue plot,
And illegible the scrawled chronicle of foam:
But the Gulf flooded superbly at the wilted
root;
Freshness nuzzled at them; they
Forgot the gall and the harness, were at leisure,
Or, as the gulls, part and parcel of the sea.
They talked as gulls talk, or the year-long
Colloquy of spray and sand;
As fish or bird they fled
Seaward from the dissolving beak of land;
The sea’s arms raised them and breasts fed;
And the caress of the sea
Flowed all about them, or touched with Ups
a wing.
Fifteen months. Three thousand miles. And
Time
Has rolled each hour with lingering insolence
Upon his iron, triumphant palate; now
Bearded in his stone tower; from the numerals
Wrenched his clumsy, slow, resisting fingers;
The clocks swung forward, the memorials
Filed well away for future reference —
Wise for the Doctor so to steep himself
In this sweet Lethe; to hear fat city voices
Follow in his path with accents thoroughly
seasoned
To after-dinner feats; hear other voices
Already cradling mental flecks of gold
From his alluvial march, that has gushed
through
The channels of a Continent parched for news:
This may be landfall. In the faces of women.
Their gracious sidelong eyes, he reads his own
Transfiguration, his solar permanence;
And their narcotic murmurs connote bronze:
Leichhardt, enormous, seen from passing
coaches
Striding above tree-level.
(Or connote
New, brighter suns and names and striding
henchmen
Of roads and coaches)...
If a seeming trivial thing:
Conflict of colors in a particular dawn,
Divided shimmer of pyrites on stone.
Or frosty spinet of birdsong, holding the clue,
And trailing threads of lure —if something was
missed,
Forgotten...
But this singular Prince
We shall not see again. For God’s sake, grant
him
His perfect rest, courageous and resurgent,
With myths for lackeys. In a sense, he died.
Making no other journey.
The Second Expedition,
The Prince goes forth again: his lean hands
tear
At veils of space, tingling to grasp again
The slackened lines of the wind. Through his
dreams has ridden
The nomad horseman, energy. Burnish the
shield
Till it flames, fit mate for the sun; deck six
and twelve
With proclamation, seize the discarded trumpet
Whose song is the heart’s flush, quiver in the
blood,
And whisk away these caltrop-treacheries
Of inaction, evil sown thickly in the road;
Press back the loud camp-followers. He comes
With his stern and silent angels: Courage,
Ambition.
Synopsis:
They move off; the Doctor is kicked by a
bullock
And the latter stays behind. Some miles are
covered;
Comes a halt at evening, and the baggage-mules
Scatter while being unloaded. In a welter
Of tea and underlinen, the Doctor makes a
speech.
They straggle northward into Tropic rains
(The Doctor preferring to sneak up gradually
On the western arm of the compass). They
slush through rain
On melting ground, waist-deep in distended
streams:
They sleep on water; touch on food or leather
Is hand on a reptile. The cattle and sheep
stampede
Again and again, and unofficial miles
Are notched in hardship. A vapid trickle of
fever
Seaps into the men; they brandish at each
other
Dulled edges of words. The Doctor makes a
speech
And Providence, hostile leaguer, is unmasked.
Slouches off in the rain, gnashing teeth. The
intrepid Doctor
Is kicked by sundry mules.
At length the cattle.
Sheep, goats and all, decamp on a private trek
Of their own sponsoring. Food-supplies are
low,
Men sick, half-starved. The Doctor is detected
By lamplight, head thrust forward, wild of eye,
Hand in the precious sugar-bag. Bailed up,
Roundly asserts his duties to Australia
And the men, extols the dignified doom of
sugar
Replacing energies that leadership
Must dissipate... He makes another speech.
The expedition sinks to a watery grave.
The Room.
There may be agony in furnished rooms;
Rather, they are its perfect setting. Walls
Clamp down on motive, and the flesh of motive
Puffs up whiter in prominence. The rage
Contracted in the mirror; the sea-passion
Trembling in the painted shell; the dust
Beating under the suction of loose curtains:
These the reflections, struggles, witless pacings
Of life man in the furnished room. The neat
montage
Of flawless gaslight gathers in his movements;
Exact, predictable as waves, his thoughts
Shatter themselves between the bedstead’s
knuckles.
Therefore, we bring the Doctor to this room.
Peers long into the glass, and sees himself
As for the first time, stained and vulnerable,
Branded with whispers. Steeply he rebels,
Curses Mann, Perry, and the merciless rain,
Till something laughs behind him, and he
breaks.
Fingers the painted shell. Its surface smooth,
Though marred by countless pores; below the
light
A shadow slides from the lip, draws back a
little.
Always withdrawn, the enigmatic thing
That mocked him, once with lineaments of
water,
Again, a girl’s look, or a monument;
But now no semblance, ache without the symbol.
Or a gaunt symbol, to be shuddered from.
Moves to the window, stares at eddying dust,
And thinks of dust. Of Gilbert. The pale face
Stamped by the marvellous speed, and covered
quickly
Because the eyes were open, shows itself.
Has Gilbert found the source? or do his bones,
For ever at war with Death’s supremacy,
Strive nightly towards Port EssingtoH till dawn
Chains them again to stone?
A question stares.
Relentless, from the dust; the answer traces
Legends of fright upon his brain; he turns
Swiftly back to the mirror, and as one
Aloof for a moment, watches fear at work.
But now they close around him, in the room,
The question eats its way until his heart
Crumbles beneath its golden arrogance,
And he must answer.
Savage and at bay!
Fronting the mirror and the tamed grey hound
Whimpering in the glass—
“No back is broken
Under a rod of lies!” The painted shell-
“Deception is all distance to the sea.”
Still, still, the dusU “Shall a man go crazy
for the kiss ,
Of thirst upon his throat ? Shall he explore
Time after time this death’s-head continent.
Probe the eye-sockets, skinless cavities,
Till the brain sweats from his skull, his hands
contract
And bone probes bone at length; bone lifted
to cheek ■>
Knows the flesh dwindling, blasted by such a
love ?”
Falls silent and betrayed. The walls slope out;
Space bunts at the doorway. Wash of darkness.
Save for three shining things. The Furies circle;
Desert with bleached eyes, Mountain with the
hawk's mouth,
Sea with her witching falseness; cordon him.
He is taken, stripped, and bound with fatal
bonds.
The Third Expedition,
Cross to the field pitched beyond world and
words;
Snapped wire jabs at %the wind; the gate is
down:
Where ( some bribed fearful entry, no one
guards;
The Sphinx upon the capital is known;
Around the gateway, footprints, ruts, are found,
Men meet here now, quiet on familiar ground.
Study the carved wood and the stirrup-leather.
Debris and trifles matched against your skill —
These are no fragments you may wedge together,
Animate, summon by name, equip with will:
Let what is waste lie waste; yield to the pressure,
The silence of their fate. World, words, are
closer.
It is where sun and world blossom into words
As a tree’s lovely frenzies of bloom divide
Winter from winter, month from month of birds,
In such clean space the Prince and his Shadow
ride.
See them upon the hills, life-size and breathing;
Where they will go, how perish, this is nothing.
I
Leeward no mystery; lyrical is speech,
Hang and sway of the lithe wave as it climbs
To tug at the cloudy dangling rope of beach
Till air fills with the glancing wings of chimes—
All that is life comes here. Beyond the gates
Only storm, drowned things, rock in the surly
straits.
Epilogue.
Spoken, in main, by the Age, the Servant-girl,
The author arguing with both, as is usual.
i
The theatre is empty; papers and peanut-shells
Litter the aisles, and now the lights are out. •
People crowd in the streets; sirens are blowing;
Headlights pour together, they splash and swill
On the hard glaze of the road, forward, back;
Light playing on light, as cataract
Toppling on water. A slender fuselage
Skims, cool and unhurried, through the shabby
clouds.
Independent of the night, the shadows of the
Great
Cowering on their pedestals —
Come out, good Doctor,
Misshapen maniac! Come out and blink
With sad extravagance. Walk up and down!
Mumble your specious part, rave into the night
With honor, courage, ambition—matted mad-
ness.
While the wind plucks at your crazy hair, while
the light
Runs in and out of your head. You are bric-
a-brac,
A child’s worn doll. Hollow. Falling to pieces.
So much for the Age. But I imagine rain,
Rain over the lights, over laughter and pointing
fingers,
Scientist, herdsman, assassin, caught without
shelter,
Cupped under, dowsed. Lights scuttling in all
directions
Like hunted spiders; landing beams switched on,
Chatter of panic in the .wireless.
But, on the roadway,
A shimmer clinging, persistent.
Agreed that laughter
Will be the last of us some time or other:
Have it not snickering but many-sided:
Flares, sawdust, declamation, Catherine-wheels.
Canada.
FRANCIS WEBB.
(Concluded.)


;
O
ws
r
■>»<«
SUff
m
- ■
~
f 3
3?"
vi
wni^
THIS IS A
m£
m
WM
wm
‘.'//A
m
7'A
W».
9r
■
%
tpp
■ '".Tlf- :
A \
mmjAm
: m
K
He
ll
m
n
PI
nM
/I
60R»C eMAMUCL
TOOTH S HOTEL
GREEN GATE HOTEL, KILLARA
Planned for comfort and service ... set in
delightful surroundings . . . the Green Gate,
Killara, is just one of the many outstand-
ing hotels built under Tooth’s pre-war
reconstruction policy. Preparations for a
continuation of this policy are already far
.WJ!
advanced. Immediately the housing position
permits, a further programme of re-
construction and modernisation will be
commenced to ensure the highest possible
standard of hotel service throughout New
South Wales.
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED, SYDNEY
MAKERS OF GOOD BEER SINCE 1835
T. 14.30
We drove off, with Joe chuckling in-
stead of the rooster.
“A bargain, that, if you like. You see,
this Mackie is what they call a ‘fancier.’ ”
“And what’s that?” •
“Well, maybe you’d not understand,”
and Joe went into a technical kind of
explanation that lasted two of the sort
of miles Darrel liked to give us, him
being s'o neglected in Joe’s enthusiasm
over the bird and Mackie.
I didn’t understand the explanation,
except that Ned Kelly came into it a
great deal.
“Ned Kelly?” I said.
“My own name for him entirely.”
“Who, Mackie?” I said in my confused
way, thinking there might be something
in such a name for Mackie.
“No, blast you! oie rogster.”
“Oh, I see,” says I uncertainly. ?
“And I guess you don’t, when all’s
said. But he’s a. game bird, ain’t he?”
There was) a tray to the sulky, and Joe
put Ned Kelly in it, behind the seat,
where, of course, he slid down from time
to time towards the Mrs. Brennan side,
fo* the tray was at the same angle as the
seat and parallel to it. Joe mpuld have
liked to have Ned in front with us, where
he could behold him, but I believe he
feared I might be putting my feet on
him.
“And now,” says Joe, “it’s along the
Windsor-road for our next prize.”
“And that would be the stallion?” I
asked.
“Which it wouldn’t at all,” says Joe.
Joe always seemed to love putting me
in the wrong, though of course I was
wrong, for we were going to pick up the
gt)at.
‘< K / E husband’s gone off to Parra-
matta,” says a nice sort of woman
when we arrived at Delaney’s place, and
I couldn’t help reflecting what a contrast
she was to Joe’s missus. A thought I
tried to banish in loyalty to Joe.
“And it’s a grand animal you’re get-
ting,” went on the nice sort of woman,
“and I wonder why himself should be,
parting with him.”
The grand animal was tethered with a
short length to a fence post, and I must
say I liked the look of him, though I did
know, in a general way, that goats are
shocking in their notions and conceptions
of ethics and morals and suchlike things
that should distinguish the higher
branches of domestic pets and animals.
We walked round the goat in semi-
circles, on account of the fence, and Mrs.
Delaney gave the goat a thistle which he
daintily and thankfully received. The
beast was a nice sleek brown with
patches here and there of a greyish white,
and he had the mildest pair of hazel
eyes I’d ever seen in anything. And
when he turned those eyes full upon you
and said “a-a-a-rh!” with gentle feeling
you somehow felt the better for it.
Mrs. Delaney said we must have a cup
of tea and some scones she was making,
so we took Darrel out of the shafts and
gave him a bite from his nosebag. And
very welcome was the tea and the
scones.
Then we proceeded to put the goat into
a chaff-bag, and I learned how deceiving
mild hazel eyes could be, and how
strong a small animal like a goat can be.
Even with his legs tied that goat made
gallant performance, but we got him at
last, and Joe left the head out of the
top of the bag and tied the ends’ securely
with thin rope round the neck. And a
fine sight he looked, especially as to his
beard, which might well have graced one
of the old patriarchs.
The goat filled the tray at the back
more than comfortably, with his head
and his horns and that fine beard pro-
"Every time I test this Mrs. Anopheles she's in a different blood group!”
trading beyond it, so Ned Kelly had per-
force to come to the front. “And mind,”
said Joe, “that you’re not putting your
feet on him.”
We jogged off when Darrel was in-
duced to motion, and we waved to Mrs,
Delaney, who was now joined by what
were presumably certain young Delaneys
we hadn’t seen up till then.
*< CT HE’S right about the goat,” says
Joe, “though I could be wishing
she’d drop the nonsense of that Irish
accent and way of talking.”
“And why?” says I.
“And for why?” says Joe. “It’s that
same Delaney himself and his jealousy.
He’s dreamt or invented that a Delaney
was in those same Riots, though never a
Delaney figures in the records of it as
being hanged or otherwise distinguished.
So if an ancestor of him were there at
all he did so little as not to be noticed.”
“And the goat,” says I, wishing to
change the subject, for I felt that I
couldn’t stand more of the Riots just
then. “And the goat—what would you
be calling him?”
“Ah, that’s it,” says Joe. “I do want
a name that is fitting and proper.”
“I fear that I can’t suggest one,” I said.
“And I never asked you to,” says Joe.
“But I have been turning over the thought
that William Tell would act like a glove.”
“William Tell?” I said.
“Use your brains, man, use your
brains, and try to remember a little of the
history you ever learned.”
“Yes, Joe, indeed,” says I, “but I don’t
quite see even yet.”
Joe flicked Darrel with a nicety of dis-
crimination that caused a 10-mile-an-hour
shudder to run the whole length of him.
and all the three corners of him to move
forward at equivalent speed. “Then I’ll
explain,” Joe said. “Wasn’t William Tell
a Swiss? And wasn’t he a famous man?
And wasn’t he the great patriot and the
lover of freedom?”
“I’m sorry, Joe,” says I. “But I could
only remember the part about the apple
he split, and I couldn’t see the connec-
tion.”
Ned Kelly, what with his sliding down
to Mrs. Brennan’s side, got his head in-
side the cornsack and couldn’t get it out
again. We stopped for Joe to get Ned’s
head fixed, for it was both dangerous
and uncomfortable for Ned to travel
with his head inside the bag, so Joe said.
IT was near the middle of the day by
now, and a small wayside pub, by good
luck or Joe’s management, hove into the
nearer distances.' There were still some
miles to go for the stallion-on the
northern borders, of a place they called
Baulkham Hills—and Joe said a slight
halt at this juncture would be an advan-
tage to everyone concerned.
Joe was quite apologetic about it, but
he could see nothing else for it but to
leave Ned Kelly and William Tell in
their enforced and temporary captivity.
We took Darrel out of the sulky and
tied the shafts to the top rail of the
fence to give the poor captives the bene-
fits of as level a floor as the strange dis-
parity of the Brennans would allow.
Then we went inside, with a warning
from Joe to be sparing of the stronger
liquors on account of the other import-
ance of the day and the occasion. There
were a few locals in the bar, and some of
them known to Joe, and a strange
traveller or two.
A good friendly company in all, nor
was it so very long before Joe was trot-
ting out his Riots and his stud farm, with
more than a tendency to get the two
somewhat mixed. Even I could see that.
But it all went down very well too, and
Mrs. Wholahan, a plump, pleasant lady
if ever there was, laughed musically and
filled glasses with equal expertness.
“Look!” she says to Joe, “and bless
me if the obliging German isn’t arriving!
—or is he going past?”
Joe had just been telling of the breed-
ing of carthorses fit to win the Mel-
bourne Cup, no less, and the mention of
the German arrested him and caused a
look of deep humor and playfulness to
come into his blue eyes.
“Watch,” says he, “and we’ll have old
Rudolf doing his turn!”
Through the slit in the doorway we
could see Rudolf standing uncertainly on
the road before the pub. Age and inno-
cence vied strongly for mastery in
Rudolf, as it were. And a soft grey beard
shaped like the hindquarter feathers of
a healthy fowl greatly heightened the
effect.
“Come here, Rudolf!” called Joe, in
his pleasantest manner. “We were just
talking about you in the hope that you
might put in your appearance.”
Rudolf was short-sighted as well as
innocent, and he shook hands with Joe
quite unwittingly.
“How are you, Rudolf?”
Rudolf was “veil, tank you.”
“It’s a cold day, Rudolf.”
“It teesh coldt.” The “teesh” was
drawn out and high-pitched.
On the strength of the “coldt,” Rudolf
bought drinks. Then Joe disappeared,
and came back almost immediately a per-
fect stranger.
“Well, if it isn’t Rudolf himself!” He
shook hands again with fervor. “It’s a
hot day, Rudolf.”
“It teesh hot.” There was another
drink on account of the heat.
Joe must have greeted old Rudolf a
half-dozen times with a variety of contra-
dictory days, and Rudolf never failed
to agree. It was me that had to remind
Joe of his great mission, and by that time
o Continued on page 24.)


Battering steel bars prove
toughness of GOODYEAR TYRES
W -r, yv ■ y -yy- ■
SSSSi:.:
m
£*s^l
r
.....
X'
m
m
m
m
vm
-- ,
9
m
m
m
W
; ■
■X':;
m
&?
good/Vear
MORE PEOPLE. THE WORLD OVER. RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE
v
020/FP7
IMAGINE DRIVING ON A ROAD
LIKE THIS —with steel bars stretched
across it every few feet! Imagine driv-
ing over .his road and hitting bar after
bar . . . hour after hour, day after day!
No driver —no machine —could stand
for long the terrific, jolting punish-
ment inflicted by such a road. Never-
theless, Goodyear was determined to
test its tyres, and others, on a road
exactly like this.
AND HERE IS HOW IT IS DONE!
This big circular track has steel cleats
bolted across it. On the 12 spokes of
the giant wheel which revolves inside
the track, tyres are mounted. As the
huge wheel turns, the tyres race around
the track, thudding against a steel bar
every tenth of a second. Long after
other tyres have broken down, blown
out, Goodyear tyres go on taking a
pounding. Here’s more proof that
Goodyear tyres are the best tyres to buy
. . . another reason why Goodyear tyres
remain the world’s first choice, as they
have been ever since 1915.


Force HOT Air out of your Roof
IN
SH
mm-.
femismpem/
Lattice-type ventilators made
of interlaced steel strips let
into the eaves enable a flow
of fresh, cool air to circulate
freely under your roof. Adding
little to the building costs of
a new roof, they can also be*
readily installed in any present
roof by your local builder or
plumber. Ask your local con-
tractor for a quotation.
NOTE the free flow of
fresh, cool air circulating
under your roof.
John Lysoght (Australia) Pty. ltd.
Sydney ,• Melbourne • Bmbone
Adelaide’ • Perth
LI7BA-6062
mn fa
lewdly
From Cairns to Hobart, from Brisbane to Perth . . . wherever you fly over TAA’s
Australia-wide interstate network . . . you’ll appreciate the courtesy, the friendly
personal interest in your comfort and enjoyment that is the hallmark of TAA's
service. In the Booking Office, at the Airport, and aloft, TAA’s desire
to please highlights your trip. When you travel, join the increasing
thousands of passengers who always fly TAA .. »the friendly way!
WmmM
IPutttA (£l Stitma
YOUR SERVICE —AT YOUR SERVICE
I must confess that Joe was far gone ir'.o
the stages of confidence and affection
We got Darrel back into the sulky, and
Joe patted Ned Kelly in a way that was
touching indped, and he kissed William
Tell several times ; and then we drifted
more or less hazily towards the northern
borders of Baulkham Hills',
Darrel must have had
some inkling of where we
were going, or some dregs
of conscience must have
awakened within him, for
Joe himself was surprised
when we arrived at Jerrold’s
place. It was Jerrold who
had sold Joe the stallion.
A queer sort of man was
this Jerrold, with eyes that
had a trick of moving up
and down his face, and pos-
sessed he was of two heads
at the one time, as often as
not.
“ FA O you think you can manage to
take him like that ?” said Jerrold
in a severe sort of way.
“Like what, do you mean?” said Joe
just as severely, for Joe was quick to
resept anything like undue familiarity and
inquisitiveness.
“Oh, nothing,” says Jerrold. “I just
meant the sulky and all that.”
“All right, then,” says Joe, “But that
same sulky belonged to Mrs. Brennan,
recently diseased —I mean deceased —and
not so recently neither.”
“Well, it’s your funeral, you know,”
says Jerrold, with extreme vulgarity, I
thought.
“Which it isn’t, and won’t be,” says
Joe, no doubt seeking to undo any implied
force in the prophecy.
“In that case, you’ll need to be mov-
ing,” says Jerrold. And there might
well have been something in that, for the
day, as far as I could discern, was draw-
ing on.
Jerrold brought forth the stallion, a big
shining black brute with a neck fit for
any two ordinary horses.
That neck itself, and the way he carried
his head, indicated he was a genuine
stallion without further question or
observations into the matter. I didn’t
like the look of him at all, though the
size of him and the height
of him were possibly a trifle
exaggerated at the moment.
There was such an air
of insufferable pride and
disdain about him, and a
mincing sort of way of put-
ting his feet to the ground,
and a quick and impatient
way of picking up his small
sharp ears that I marvelled
that Joe himself wasn’t
offended.. But he wasn’t.
“Now, lis t e n,” says
Jerrold, “he’s as quiet as a
lamb, but don’t upset him in
any way, for he’s proud and
sensitive.”
Joe resented this deeply, being told
such things about horses that came to
him by intuition.
“Mishter Jerrol’, your advice ish kindly
but mishplashed, I’m thinking.”
“Weil, don’t jerk his head, that’s all;
or take too many liberties with him.”
“Mishter Jerrol’, now that you mention
liberties ...”
' “All right, all right! but I just wanted
to tell you that Pharaoh . . .”
“Farer! is it. And to hell with such
a name. Heesh no Farer to me,
Mishter Jerrol’! See! Heesh Wolfe
Tone! See! Good name that.
And it well might be that of the
patron saint of Castle Hill,” said Joe to
me in thickish confidence ; thinking no
doubt of the Irish patriots in the Riots.
“None of you heathen Farers, Mishter
Jerrol’! ”
I don’t know what arrangements had
been made for the payment of the brute,
but evidently everything had been fixed
up already, and we started off in the
long shadows of the summer afternoon.
WOLFE TONE had a rope round his
neck, and a pretty long rope it was. I
seem to recall Mr. Jerrold viewing that
rope and the manner of fixing it with a
deal of cynical interest not to say per-
haps contempt. But Joe could b? very
firm, and he declared that no stallion was
worth a cracker that couldn’t be led in
this way; nor yet was the man worth a
cracker that couldn’t lead a stallion so.
“But,” says Joe to me, “hold him in
pretty short, and that gives you the neces-
sary control of him.”
And it was just concerning this that
some little difficulty arose. Wolfe Tone,
being held in short, was brought into
quite intimate nearness to William Tell.
Now I can’t say whether stallions, in their
view of things generally, disfavor goats
on principle, but it is certain that Wolfe
Tone was not pleased at an enforced
proximity to William Tell.
There is no denying, too, that William
Tell, whatever undoubted qualities he
possessed, had about him an odor that
may have been as little pleasing to Wolfe
Tone as it was to myself. And insofar
as that may have been so, the subsequent
behavior of Wolfe Tone might find some
excuse. Joe himself seemed unconcerned
at the smell, nor to notice it at all.
Before long, then, Wolfe Tone snorted
’violently, and perhaps William himself
was touched in his pride, and enraged
too, maybe, at the humiliation of his
position. He began to struggle to the best
of his ability and the circumstances of
encompassment by a chaff-bag. And that
made Wolfe Tone snort more violently
still.
“Hold him short and firm!” says Joe,
who seemed to consider the management
of stallions not so much an acquired
talent as a natural instinct. Then Wolfe
Tone stopped, bracing himself in an
ominous way, and I tugged, and in doing
so slowed down the pace of Darrel very
considerably.
And the tightness of the rope on Wolfe
Tone’s neck made him rear, and a fear-
some sight that was —the great black
mass of him, 50ft. high and more it
seemed to me, waving its front legs and
squealing horribly. In the moment all
the worst of my sins and many of the
quite small ones came vividly to my
mind. And to judge by the commotion
of William Tell in his- chaff-bag, he was
undergoing a similar mental process—if
goats do have consciences at all, which I
am inclined to doubt,
Jlowever, Darrel was not worried by
the finer feelings of stallions, and kept
on steadily. And then without undue
volition on my part, I started to play
out rope to Wolfe Tone, just as I have
done with a jewfish when I was lucky
enough to hook one on a beach.
I OE, who was rapidly losing all the
benefits and cheer of Mrs. Who-
lahan’s grog and the entertainment by


R3K ■
P
«Ss<
Ideal for private or hire boats, the "Seasprite" will fit snugly
into the boot of your car for travelling. Weighing only 40 lbs.,
the motor is easily carried with its built-in carrying handle Simple
controls and easy starting are combined wifh solid power - and
you get 5 hours of "trouble-free" pleasure boating per gallon.
Enjoy a really Distinctive holiday with a "Seasprite",
$ 3-3 HORSE-POWER-WATER-COOLED
LIGHTWEIGHT - 4 0 LBS*
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
INSPECTION INVITED
Terms available - Deposit
£2310 0 and 16' Weekly
over 18 Months _
CJ
OutSo^AcC
d
o'M
•;s
AUSTRALIAN MARINI
ENGINE C? PULTP
59-63 IT LPTROBE s:
M E L B 0 U R N E. Cl.
FOR FULL MECHANICAL SPECIFICATIONS
WRITE OR CALL
*
Ci
$
mm
w
It's a gift to be treasured
and long remembered
The new Onoto for the extra-special
names on your list to delight the
discriminating. Nothing could meet
your gift requirements more brilliantly
than this famous British Pen. So,
when you want to say "Happy"
Christmas you couldn't do
better than give an Onoto.
fa
noto
THE BRITISH PEN THAT NEVER LETS YOU DOWN
Product of De La Rue Stationers Lid., London,
DISTRIBUTORS: NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST PTy. LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
r
At all gift
and fountain
pen counters.
STREAMLINED
beauty in black or
coloured models.
With a 14 ct gold
nib, iridium-tipped
for smooth flowing,
effortless writing.
111 ustrated actual
size. In a box for
gift-giving!
Rudolf, turned on me quite savagely:
“You bloody fool, hold him in or he’ll
get away entirely! ”
“And I’m wishful that he would, too,
this very minute,” said I, wrathful like,
for my temper rose, obscuring the vision
of my sins somewhat, and blinding me to
the danger of Wolfe Tone’s hoofs. And
I must pause here to say that it was Joe’s
tone of ingratitude that riled me more
than anything—nor can I remember that
Joe was ever given much to gratitude.
In all this excitement it is pleasing now
to record that Ned Kelly, however much
may have been his inner perturbation,
showed no signs of fear, his chief con-
cern seeming to be the discomfort of
“ Don't worry, sir—the show is terrible, anyhow !”
being huddled down into the Mrs.
Brennan side, of the sulky. And Darrel,
too, stepped it out decently.
When the rope slipped through to the
knot in the end of it I held tight, more
for my own reputation than for Joe’s
sake. Wolfe Tone squealed mightily and
reared higher than ever, and William Tell
struggled worse, though there was now
no immediate danger to him. The danger
was to me —in being pulled out the back
of the sulky, which would have been done
surely, only Darrel, finding the strain
too much, stopped and eased back
slightly.
Then Joe showed up in worse light
than ever by. snatching the rope out of
my hands.
“Hold these,” said he, thrusting Darrel’s
reins upon me, and adding, “that is, if you •
can do that much, you bloody sook!”
“Sook” was a term I should certainly
have resented to some purpose had the
circumstances been a little more favor-
able.
Joe leapt out of that sulky with an
agility that surprised me in spite of my
other preoccupations, and his departure
put the seat on a more even keel. “Now
pass out that halter!” says Joe.
“That what?” I inquired.
“Halter!” roars Joe, commencing, I’m
sure, that unbecoming accusation of me
being a “sook” .when in a flash I under-
stood what he wanted.
“And where is it, Joe?” I asked in a
mild tone, not wishing to upset him more
just then.
“Under your feet —you”
Well, it wasn’t under my feet at all,
but right down under Ned Kelly’s corn-
sack. But I found it, and passed it out.
NOW there followed a fearful time as
Joe held the long rope tight and
shortened it as he made' towards Wolfe
Tone. And all the love I had for Joe
welled to the surface, deciding me to
overlook the rankling word “sook,” for
his danger was terrible indeed.
But Joe kept up a soothing conversa-
tion with the extremely excited Wolfe
Tone, and the nearer he got the more
soothing it became. Nor can I express
the great relief I felt when Joe arrived
at the trembling brute, and at the right
end of him too. It went to show that
Joe must have learnt a deal about horses
when he had the Council job in Leich-
hardt.
Joe fixed the halter on Wolfe Tone, and
took off the long rope, and Heaven and
the Saints alone know how he did it.
Then he led the brute up towards the
sulky, and said: “See! That’s how to
manage them! I’ll lead him, and you
can drive.”
This meant my promotion to the Mrs.
Brennan side of the sulky, but there all
advantages came to an end, for Darrel
seemed to realise in some mysterious way
that he wasn’t being expertly controlled.
Nor for the life of me could I manage
to hit him on any of his vital and sen-
sitive spots.
Joe broadly hinted that some people
were good for nothing, and that made
me determined to succeed with Darrel,
and by some lucky chance I caught him
where he had to take notice, Darrel and
the sulky moved, but not so Wolfe Tone,
He just braced back, and so the sulky
had to stop again. Joe lost his temper
badly—with Wolfe Tone as well as me.
“He’s got to be mastered—and I’d like
to see the horse that can get the better
of me! Here, hold this as well as the
reins, and for the love of Mike don’t
you let go! ”
Joe took his absurd whip, and de-
scended most purposefully,
“Look you, when I start him, start
Darrel moving too.” How I was to do
this with no whip Joe just left to my
initiative,
I OE went to the back of Wolfe Tone,
and spoke to him with decision—no
soothing words at all, for the time for
that had gone by. The strain on the
halter was hard to bear, and when Wolfe
Tone ignored the command to move Joe
slashed him over the rump—as quick as
unexpected.
{Continued on page 26.)


Mis ofrif I
r
'm
r
i %
Cane-growing is a sturdy industry. Nearly 9,009 independent cane
farmers own an average of 50 acres each. Their farms and equipment
are valued at £32,000,000.
<
/st
CROP
fPCAfi/r)
<
/sr RATOONS
I
VRPtR CA££H MAW fit
f ieevMe crop)
'•
2»o
RATOONS
The successful grower works his farm scientifically. Generally one
field lies fallow, or under a green manure crop, while in another
field a new crop grows from cane cuttings. A second crop will grow
up from the roots of the cane after harvesting, called the first
“ ratoon” crop. A second “ratoon ” crop is generally grown making
three crops from the single planting. The harvested cane is sent
to the mills where it is crushed. Raw, or crude, sugar is made from
the juice.
WHERE THE 4£d. GOES
transport
Etc. >
*^4
K\' \\\V
VC SROWfiRS
2 /wholesale
retail
o\\ GROCERS i
Australian refined
sugar is as low in price
as in most of the prin-
cipal countries of the
world, even with the
recently approved rise
of per lb. This
rise is the first since
1922. In 1933 it was
reduced from 4Jd. to
4d. as a depression
measure. The you
pay for a pound of
sugar goes to the various people who produce it
shown in the diagram.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
v H AT
4/
3
$
THE.
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against
difficulties and loss which might arise should your Executor die or
become incapacitated. By means of such a codicil you can name Burns
Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint Executor with your present appointee or,
if you wish, as sole Executor. In this way you gain positive assurance
of continuous and sound administration and are relieved of a serious
anxiety. The Company will willingly forward full particulars.
DIRECTORS —Janies Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Eee.
Manager—E, S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.E.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR » TRUSTEE o AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. Box 5*3 Q.P.0., Sydney.
<
• hi.
i*-./
«£gS&* A^vTvn
X X^tX./,
IT MEANS more farm tractors that will soon be
available from International Harvester’s new plant
at Geelong, Australia —tractors in large quantities
to help overcome the present acute shortage and win
more* food from Australia’s farmlands.
It means new farm machines and improved methods to
help Conserve the vital soil and produce bigger and
better crops with less labour.
It means the large-scale manufacture in Australia of
International motor trucks in popular payload capacities •
to meet transportation needs of Agriculture and Industry.
It means engines and complete power units to turn
shafts and wheels.
It means a nation-wide network of local servicing facili-
ties throughout the Commonwealth by over 600 trained
and specially equipped dealers.
Above all, the IH symbol means this: an organization
that builds long life, efficiency, economy and freedom
from toil into its products, that each may contribute
to better living for us all.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., CINC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. FACTORY: GEELONG
m INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
Just once Joe hit him, and never will
I be too clear as to what happened very
immediately after. It was too quick even
for my worst sins to get a fair chance to
visualise themselves. For straight above
me, between me and the fair heavens,
was a black mass- —tons and tons *of
shining blackness —and a squeal coming
out of it. That squeal, I’m sure, my ears
didn’t register entirely till weeks and
weeks after. And then, faster than all
my telling of it, Wolfe Tone was in the
sulky alongside me! •
Now, whatever miracles that sulky had
performed in carrying Mrs. Brennan, it
wasn’t made for bearing Wolfe Tone.
There was a general and rapid collapse
of the framework and wheels and so
forth! There must have been, really, for
I found myself on the ground, and no
sizable part of a sulky around me at all.
That’s positive. All else is a multiplicity
and confusion of movement; but a fleet-
ing vision persists of Darrel, with two
shafts slapping about him —they must
have been the shafts —setting out on a
sprint that would haVe won the Derby.
And behind him, at equal pace, with
tail straight out and a halter flying wild,
was that big black brute Wolfe Tone.
Near by was a chaff-bag in convulsions,
and pathetic sounds of hopelessness
issuing out of it. And nearer still was
the cornsack —which I seem only to re-
member afterwards —and poor Ned Kelly
“Your driving will have to improve before you get your licence, dear.”
giving a feeble flutter that I deduced later
was his last. Of Joe himself there was
no sign.
I T seems perfectly feasible to assume
1 that I fainted at the point, and when
I came to it was after a duration of time
that I will never realise. But I discovered,
incidentally as it were, that I had saved
a few of the ribs on one side of me, and
that the backbone was in reasonably
good and sound condition.
That was all in hospital, of course,
though I don’t recall getting there. As
to legs and arms, there were only the
bruises, and a considerable stiffness and
soreness.
Joe came once to see me, which may
have been good of him really, seeing
the distance it was. What had happened
him in the mix-up I didn’t learn very
clearly, for Joe was peculiarly reticent
a%out his stud farm, too. I don’t know
even now if he ever got that Wolfe Tone
home or not, and what’s more I don't
care. Nor as to William Tell neither.
Ned Kelly, I’m surd, was dead before I
went off to the hospital.
Joe, I will say, on the. occasion of that
solitary visit to hospital, didn’t actually
blame me for the accident, though I did
somehow gather, as far as my injuries
made that possible, that Joe in his heart
was holding me responsible.
But alike to me now, in all the soften-
ing influence of memory and distance, are
those Riots, and Joe’s stud farm, and
Joe’s thin missus, and all the bucolic
splendors of the northern borders of
Baulkham Hills—Leichhardt with the
steady grind of its trams and the incessant
dust of its streets is good enough for
me. And I’m not forgetting, neither, that
Joe called me a “sook.” That’s a hard
word between friends —and it takes a deal
of getting over.


5635 D-1 0.47
Dalmatian
"JANcsI OF
KORCHULA”
t Dalmatian Club
\ Champion 4 years
running (1943-44-
45-46). Winner of
Sires’ Produce
Stakes, 1947,
N.S.W. R.A.S.
Aivard e d 3 3
Kennel Club
Challenges.
6
9
A
M
mmmttmm m
r
mm
m
•vs
■*. :
*“33?
z£Tcpr
IQbacc
CHAMPION
% READY RUBBED TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut far the Pipe.
fkeek these fettinres-'
\
I
(hr
■z
It's simple as A B C. It means that if you wish to
enjoy the real comforts of life you should msu a e
your home with 8.1. Slagwool.
• IN SUMMER: B.L Slagwool keeps your home
from 8° to 15° cooler even on the hottest days.
• IN WINTER: Your fuel bills will be up
to 35% lighter. 8.1. Slagwool keeps all the
rooms uniformly comfortable.
'Motion
PTY.
LTD.
fOC n7w "zSalTnd T’k PIISRIM Sh.M- House, North Terrace. Adelaide.
T F HANTKE. 294 Murray Street, Perth. nW FR DAVIES &
LTD.. Auckland, ’Wellington, Palmerston N.. Christchurch. Dunedin. B| q.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Concert.
»The solid qualities of decisiveness and
sound interpretation were the chief
features of Eunice Gardiner’s playing
when she appeared with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra under Eugene
Goossens in Liszt’s Piano Concerto No. 1
last week. Miss Gardiner obviously appre-
ciated that this work calls less for tonal
chiaroscuro than forthright utterance. It
is, in essence, a muscular piece. Only in
the early phases, when the solo instru-
ment takes over from the muted ’cellos
and double basses, did the pomposity
appear rather brittle, but thereafter the
pianist settled down to a free and flow-
ing exposition of lyric sensuousness and
dazzling dynamics that go to make up a
work which so many executants shy from.
The strenuousness of the rest of the
night’s work for the orchestra was re-
flected in its conductor’s collar. The
“Marriage of Figaro” Overture coruscated
on its blithe but all-too-short way; “Till
Eulenspiegel” suitably recorded the
pranks of that wayward character, with
Richard Strauss’s gift for pungent wit
overriding the claims of melodic strength ;
and SainfiSaens’ symphonic poem
“Phaeton” recorded faithfully the ill-fated
venture of the young god who borrowed
his father’s fiery chariot for a fling across
the heavens.
* * * *
There was nothing cold about the
seventh outpouring of Brahms music
at St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne. It
was mainly concerned with women’s
voices, and dates from one of the
happiest periods of the composer’s
artistic travail when, a young man
of 20, he became conductor of a
ladies’ choir at Hamburg and wrote an
astonishing amount of lovely music for
it. “I Hear a Harp,” in which harpist
Adrian Bendall and Kenneth Norton and
Gordon Grieve, armed with two French
horns, blended deliciously with the Uni-
versity Conservatorium Women’s Choir,
was followed by Sbakspeare’s “Come
away, come away, Death,” the Bard’s
vivid imagination being perfectly married
to the music. A choir composed entirely
of women singers might be expected to
have a certain monotony about it, but
there was all the variety in the world in
the final item, the swishing song with the
sound of waves and dogs barking from
Ossian’s “Fingal.”
m * • *
One good feature about the N.S.W.
Junior Orchestra and Choir is the ground-
ing it gets in the best of the lighter
classics by its conductor, Prof. Carl
Sauer. The programme he submitted at
its Sydney Town Hall concert was in the
best of taste and well within its capabili-
ties. The minuet from Haydn’s “Oxford”
Symphony was lightly graceful; the
march from “Tannhauser” was not with-
out sturdiness. The first movement of
the De Beriot violin concerto had young
Michael Adler as a confident soloist who
evoked quite a good tone, especially in
the lower register, with some facile bow-
ing. The choir sang to orchestral accom-
paniment Brahms’ Fifth and Sixth Hun-
garian Dances, the Hunting Chorus from
Weber’s “Freischutz,” Ketelbey’s “In a
Monastery Garden” and Forsyth’s “The
Lord’s Prayer” —the last well-balanced
and suitably devotional. Shirley Bushell
raised a rich mezzo in the “Habanera”
from “Carmen” and “Stride la Vampa”
from “II Trovatore.” Some good legato
phrasing marked June Stidwell’s singing
of Bizet’s “Agnus Dei.” Barbara Mc-
Donald danced the “Barcarolle” from
“Tales of Hoffmann,” and the junior
ballet brought the stateliness of the
eighteenth-century ballroom to life when
in costume they danced the Beethoven
“Minuet in G.”
Artbursts
*
Arthur Murch’s “Blue Hill,” flower-
pieces by Geoffrey Anderson, Joy Ewart
and Grace Cossington Smith, fruit by
Geoff Jones and David Strachan and a
primly gay “Spring” by Enid Cambridge
try to give something of a festive air to
the Christmas Exhibition at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney. There is little
joyousness in either Russell Drysdale’s
“Sofala” or Donald Friend’s “Sofala
Street’” —two studies of identical subject-
matter—although, in Drysdale’s interpre-
tation, there is, with slightly more
elongated verandah posts, more red paint.
Ena Joyce’s large “Portrait of Gwen”
has character and evidence of ability, but
little grace; Sail Herman’s “La Perouse”
has a depressed-looking house, an im-
probable horse and a section of blurred
sea. In compensation, perhaps, D.
Orban’s “Road to Bundanoon,” with
subtly alternating tones, has patterns of
road and shadows faintly suggestive of a
rich Christmas lamington.
* ♦ * *
Watercolors by Harry Dangar at the
Grosvenor Gallery are pleasant studies
of pleasant subjects—Terrigal, Tuggerah
Lakes, Hawkesbury River and others.
They have remarkable clarity and mastery
of detail, but lack drama —there is a cer-
tain flatness about the unbroken line of
many of the sea or lake pieces. Where
there is an opportunity for depth, as in
some of the pictures of trees, and where
the somewhat literal quality of the work
is veiled by mist, as in “Sea Mist on the
Hawkesbury,” Dangar’s work is seen at
its best as a worthwhile contribution to
Australian watercolor painting. Not in
the highest rank, but comparing favor-
ably with most.
« * * •
The much-discussed sculpture of
Moore, shorn of erudite interpretation
and the prestige of importation from
overseas and a special exhibition at the
N.S.W. National Art Gallery, is interest-
ing only in relation to the material used.
For the same reason, rocks which have
been worn by the weathering agents of
wind, soil and water can be fascinating
subjects for research, or even imagina-
tion. And the imaginative flights which
result from prolonged gazing at fire
embers and passing clouds are familiar
to every child. Conscious art would
appear to demand something more illu-
minating, more comprehensive and with
less need for explanations.
Otto Pareroultja, one of the several
Aruntas who have followed in the wake
of Namatjira, Rex Battarbee’s first abo.
pupil, is showing Central Australian
watercolors at Melbourne Athenaeum.
Present commentator could see tew
signs either of direct observation of
nature or native conventions, though
there are plenty of signs of the convert-
tions of the National Gallery school in
Melbourne. Pareroultja has less skill than
Namatjira in those conventions, his colors
are a trifle cruder and he knows little
about the appearance of nature. As
decorations his pictures are certainly not
as pleasing as the simplest traditional
decoration on a native dillybag or throw-
stick, and it seems rather a pity that his
unsophisticated efforts should be exploited
in city exhibitions, even though they do
sell like hot cakes,
At the Films.
“The Bachelor and the Bobby Soxer”
(Sydney Regent): A light-comedy trifle
with Cary Grant as an artist forced to
suffer the attentions of a moon-struck
’teenager (Shirley Temple). Myrna Loy,
as a woman judge and the teenager’s
older sister, surveys the situation with
judicial calm until she is smitten by the
same disease that affects the youngster.
Funny most of the way.
* * * *
“If women annoy you, club ’em”—
probably the last fellow alive and still
preaching that dangerous doctrine is Ray
Milland in “The Trouble With Women”
at Sydney Victory. Milland is a good
bright comedian and handles his part of
a professor in psychology with ease. He
asserts that the trouble with women is
their knack of destroying a man’s power
of reasoning, so, when he discovers that
Theresa Wright is sapping his mental
wealth, he begins taking notes and treat-
ing himself as “a test case of an intellec-
tual being in whom animal instincts have
arisen.” It doesn’t do him any good.
* * * *
It is unlikely that The Bulletin’s tame
haggis will ever recover from the ordeal
of seeing “The Swordsman” at Sydney
State. Larry Parks and Ellen Drew are
younger members of opposing clans, and
there’s a good deal of hard riding and
shooting across sunbathed Californian
scenery in the best Western tradition be-
fore the feud is finally settled, and Mr.
Parks and Miss Drew hurl themselves
into a fadeout clinch to the tune of bag-
pipes an a’.


WHEN IT'S AN
txibt
\ \ t'L f /
/
V
V
MORE CARS ARE FITTED WITH EXIDE
THAN ANY OTHER BATTERY
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD., 44 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
— ■ ■ " ■' ' 1 „ 1 ■ • 1 — ' . - - X 1.24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
Visiting Australia at the request of the
Federal Government to make a broad
survey of housing problems, Sir Reginald
Stradling is chief scientific adviser to the
British Ministry of Works. Housing
research committees with which he has
been associated in Britain have been con-
cerned with three main problems —alter-
native methods of construction, main-
tenance of standards while using substi-
tutes for materials in short supply and
discovery of ways of easing the burden
on the housewife. In the First World
War Stradling served in France with the
Royal Engineers, won a Military Cross
and was twice mentioned in dispatches.
Bristol Grammar and University put him
on the track that led to his picking up
doctorates in science and philosophy and
becoming a member of the Institute of
Civil Engineers. 4
Relinquishment by Captain Charlie
Payne of his last Murray steamer com-
’ mand ends family connection with river
vessels that goes back to 1862, when his
father Fred started in the game %t
Echuca. From 1886 to 1901 Fred and
his sons Charlie and Harry skippered
boats on the Murray and Darling—Harry
once took a steamer right up to the
Queensland border—but with the decline
of the Darling trade the two sons moved
downstream to South Australia. The list
of vessels skippered by the three Paynes
is nearly as long as the Murray itself and
is a history in brief of the river trade.
Harry is living in retirement at Mannum ;
Charlie at Murray Bridge.
The former R.A.A.F. camp at Somers,
Westernport (Vic.), where many of Aus-
tralia’s young airmen were trained, is now
taken over by private enterprise. The
Prime Minister handed it over to the
State Government for a national-fitness
camp. However, Eric Hall, of Dyson’s
Motors, which has! almost exclusive
control of the Mornington Peninsula
transport, has, with other directors,
acquired the place, and has been active in
converting it into holiday camp for
families. He will run it as the holiday
camps are run by Billy Butlin at Clacton-
on-Sea and other places in England. Hall
is a successful man and should make
things go at Somers. However, the
National Fitness campaign, Boy Scouts
and others are not so pleased with the
development, contending that the State
Government put one over them.
Returning to Perth after four years
at Geelong Grammar to take over the
job of head of Christ Church Grammar,
Alexander Todd is already well known
in the West. He was a master at Guild-
ford Grammar from 1925 to 1943, was an
enthusiastic worker in amateur theatri-
cals in Perth, and for a year or so before
leaving W.A. was chief instructor of an
A. squadron. That was his second
bite at Air Force work; he served with
the R.A.F. in 1918. In his own school-
days Todd made the college team in
cricket, football and hockey, and, during
his teaching career, has been active as a
coach. He holds an Oxford Honors M.A.
degree and an Honors Diploma of Educa-
tion from Melbourne University.
Two Adelaide women will bring Aus-
tralia momentarily before the American
musical world on December 18 when Vina
Barnden will give a piano recital at Times
Hall in New York, and will include in
her programme a new piano sonata by
Miriam Hyde. The two were students
together at the Elder Conservatorium in
Adelaide and both later gave concerts
in London. Miss Barnden has played at
recitals with most of the important British
orchestras and has made more than 100
B. broadcasts. When she was arrang-
ing the programme for her New York
concert she wrote to Miss Hyde, who
now lives in Sydney, offering to include
one of her compositions. r
Re-elected chairman of the Melbourne
Stock Exchange for the sixth year,
R A. (“Arnie”) Rowe is one of those
men who won’t be rattled. During the
war he had the job of interpreting the
Government’s wishes for a subdued tone
on the ’Change—otherwise trying to make
it function smoothly using red-tape for
oil. General opinion is that he did the
job satisfactorily. A former president of
the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria, a
prominent Mason and a keen sporting en-
thusiast, he still finds time to sit on the
tribunals of the Victorian Football
League and dish out punishment to
rough players.
The somewhat serious-looking gentle-
man depicted below by Heth is humorist
Les Robinson, whose inimitable fantasies
have been cropping up at intervals in
The Bulletin’s fiction pages for more
than a quarter of a century. A bachelor,
HUMORIST, THINKING.
Les lives in a hut in the wilds above
Middle Harbor (Sydney) and does most
of his writing out of doors. Although
he has been a regular visitor to The
Bulletin office for years, very little is
-known about his career. Asked for some
biographical details about himself Les,
who is generally prepared to yarn at
great length about anything under the
sun, was as communicative as an oyster.
It is known, however, that he spent his
boyhood at Bondi (Sydney) and was more
often in the surf and fishing around the
rocks than at school. He once confessed
over a pint at Bill Snudden’s Star that
he had tried a number of occupations
without finding a job for which he seemed
suited. He came to the conclusion at
last that it hadn’t been invented. That
was after he had begun to write and had
been rebuked by several employers for a
habitual far-away look in his eyes. But
his attempts at work supplied him with
the material for his stories, sketches and
articles, the best of which have been
reprinted in a highly-amusing collection
called The Giraffe’s Uncle. It is also
known that Les has a great liking for
caves but has never been able to save
enough money to buy one.
Earl Baldwin, dead in England at 80, has
been the target for much criticism since the end
of his third Ministry in 1937, but even his
enemies have conceded him the qualities of
sincerity and honesty of purpose. When his
major political career began in 1922 he had
already a career and a half behind him; for
20 years he divided his time between the
great family works and the life of a country
squire, and from 1908 onwards repre-
sented Bewdley in the Commons. He held
junior posts in Lloyd .George’s Coalition
Ministries, and by 1921 was President of the
Board of Trade. In the following year, when
rank-and-file Conservatives voted for a break
from the Coalition, he joined the Bonar Law
group, and when the Conservatives won the
subsequent election became Chancellor of the
Exchequer. After a few months he succeeded
Bonar Law as Prime Minister, but his Ministry
was short-lived. He advocated Protection and
went to the country for a mandate, lost about
80 seats and saw the first Labor Government
take office with Liberal support. Before a year
was out there was another general election and
Baldwin came back with a big majority. Prime
Minister for five years, he saw history repeat
itself in 1929, when another Labor minority
Government under Ramsay MacDonald took
office, to be converted by the Depression into
a National Government in which Baldwin was
first Lord President of the Council and later,
in 1935, Prime Minister. His third term covered
the stormy period of the Abyssinian War, the
outbreak of the civil war in Spain, the death
of George V, the accession and abdication of
Edward VIII and the accession' of the present
King. Baldwin handed over the Prime Minister-
ship to Neville Chamberlain shortly after the
Coronation of George VI; he was created a
Knight of the Garter and raised to the peerage
as Earl Baldwin of Bewdley: Baldwin was a
lover of art and literature. He published several
books of speeches, many of them delivered
outside the sphere of politics, and was one of
the first to recognise the genius of Mary Webb.
Since 1929 he had been Chancellor of St.
Andrew’s University; of Cambridge since 1930;
and when American philanthropist Edward
Harkness decided to give £2,000,000 for the
preservation of historic English buildings in
recognition of the influence of British tradition
in American life he insisted on Baldwin being
one of the trustees.
With monotonous regularity art prizes
awarded by provincial galleries in Vic-
toria go to Melbourne artists. The Ben-
digo £lOO prize this year was won by
Charles Bush, of Essendon, for a painting
of the Barwon Heads pier, and R. Mal-
colm Araner, another city artist, won the
£3O award for watercolor. Bush looks
like stepping into the shoes of William
Dargie and Harold Herbert. Since he
left the army he has had a continuous
record of prize-winning.
“Becks” on a great educationalist:
Columbia University, New York, is the big-
gest and most richly-endowed seat of learning
in the world—its students exceed 35,000 and its
staff-roll contains more names than the student-
rolls of most universities—and for most of this
century its name has been a synonym for that
of Nicholas Murray Butler, dead last week at
85. Butler’s connection with the institution
began in the 1880’s as a student, a fellow and
a lecturer in philosophy. By 1890 he was
professor of philosophy, and in 1901 his long
reign as president of the university began. It
ended in 1945, * his successor being General
Eisenhower. Butler was a world figure in
education; he held degrees of 40 universities
in his own and other countries, had been
honored by many foreign Governments and
societies, was awarded the .Nobel Peace Prize
in 1931 and in 1913 received the Republican
vote for Vice-President of the United States.
In the British Who’s Who his attainments and
distinctions extend beyond a full column, the
most unexpected being membership of the
Bricklayers’ Union, which is probably due to
the fact that the foundation stones of almost
all of the 69 buildings of the university have
been laid since he became president. Butler
published a stream of books on all manner
of subjects, preached the American way of life
and Anglo-American friendship, and was in-
terested in public affairs to the end. Australia
had a special place in his affections, and one of
his last public utterances was to come out
as a strong advocate of a federated form of
government for a reconstructed Germany.
Bound for the Antarctic, Wing-Com-
mander Stuart Alexander Caird Camp-
bell, 8.E., is, according to Mcßeath, a
good bloke to interview on a hot day in
Melbourne. By the time he’d finished
showing plans and maps of his 1 route
through those frozen seas Mcßeath was
ready for a double-header rum and
whisky. The commander of the expedi-
tion to Heard Island, uninhabited except
for seals, sea-elephants and Adele pen-
guins, does not look his 43 years and is
no stranger to those regions. He was
with the B.A.N.Z. Antarctic Expedition
of 1929-31. He expects to be away five
months with his little ship, which bears
the romantic name of H.M.A.S. L.S.T.
3501, setting up the various bases and
then returns to direct operations from
Melbourne. He originally joined the
R.A.A.F. in 1926 and gave it away in
1933, during which time he was loaned
to the Mawson Banzare expedition as
pilot to the aircraft. Leaving the
ANTARCTIC AIRMAN.
R.A.A.F., he flew Sikorskys for the Oro-
villo Goldmining Co. in N.G., but when
Hitler went mad he joined up again and
was the oldest operational pilot in the
R.A.A.F., care Rathmines, care Amber-
ley-Ip&wich, care 24 Squadron, Towns-
ville, care 7 Squadron. He formed the
Deniliquin Flying School, out of which
came some notable pilots, and, based op
the Philippines, he flew Catalinas along
the China coast mine-laying and bomb-
ing. Personality and build suggest that
he missed his vocation —he should have
been a sailor.
Dr. Robert Rutherford Nimmo is re-
turning to Otago University as Professor
of Physics. During the war he
was among the front-rankers in defeating
the submarine and developing the atomic
bomb. At Cambridge he studied undei
his countryman Lord Rutherford, when
his interest was aroused concerning the
splitting of the atom and all its dread pos-
sibilities. Ten years as lecturer in physics
-at the University of W.A. preceded his
return to England, just as war broke out.
A post at Birmingham Uni. brought him
under Professor Oliphant, and he became
his chief assistant in radar research.
When Oliphant went to Australia on an
official mission, Nimmo was left in charge
of the work being done for the Admiralty,
and in 1944 he was with Oliphant’s team
in California working on the atomic
bomb. Still in his early forties, Nimmo
has to his credit a volume entitled Atomic
Energy.
“Curtain Raiser”: There was one man
in Melbourne who wasn’t in the least sur-
prised by the arrival of the comet. He
was Ahmar Singh, one of the leading
identities of the city. Mr. Singh con-
fesses to 114 years and claims to have
enlisted in the A.I.F. in World War I at
the age of 80 and attained the rank of
sergeant-major. This is not surprising
when it is considered that he comes from
that tough lighting race the Gurkhas,
and left his home, Nepal, in 1852, served
in 18 wars and has had close on 200
stitches in his body. Long before the
arrival of the comet he was privy to it, and
he also predicted one back in 1882. Until
three years ago he worked as a wharf-
lumper, but broke his hip. The same
power that gives him advance information
of the movements of the heavenly bodies
healed his earthly one, and now he run's
an apartment house in Fitzroy. He has
been advised from usually reliable sources
that there will be seven sunspots on
Christmas Day and heavy hoods next
year.
. “Simon”: George Henry Cohen,
veteran newspaper owner of Mudgee
(N.S.W.), has gone west at 89. He set
type to the last and without glasses. He
ran the Mudgee “Independent” when
Henry Lawson was a lad on near-by
Eurunderee Creek. Lawson’s mother
brought along some verses of Henry's
which Cohen’s editor, Decoursey-Browne,
said were copies of English magazine
work. Louisa Lawson stoutly denied
his contention and suggested that they
nominate a subject for treatment.
Mudgee races, then pending, were men-
tioned, and the boy made such a good
showing that his verse saw the light in
the old paper for the first time.
The career of Bendigo’s Michael
Gabriel Giudice, dead at 65, might have
been taken from one of Arnold Bennett’s
novels. He was mayor of the city at
39, was a councillor .for 20 years, and
had interests in every part of it. He
founded the United Brewery, the Lyric
Theatre, the Bendigo “Sun” and was gov-
erning director of the Shamrock Hotel,
Pty.
Into the Silence: —•
At Stawell, at 76, Harry Henderson, secretary
of the Stawell Athletic Club for the past 25
years and committee member for half a
century. Athletes attending the Stawell “carnival”
next Easter will miss this grand old sport. For
some years he was proprietor of the Stawell
“Times.”
In Melbourne, at 80, David Buchan Ferguson,
.chairman of directors of H. V. McKay-Massey
Harris. Born in Melboure, he was educated at
St. James’s Grammar School, and in 1903
joined the Sunshine Harvester works as sales
manager when M. V. McKay was in charge.
He became general manager of the joint
concern, resigned in 1936 but remained as chair-
man. He was for 20 years a member of the
Australian Industries Protection League. The
Sunshine Technical School was largely his
creation.
In Adelaide, at 82, William Taylor Rofe,
partner in the carrying firm of Rofe and Co.,
and one-time mayor of Port Adelaide, a former
president of the S.A. Master Carriers’ Asso-
ciation, the South Australian Employers’
Federation, the Rotary Club, and a commis-
sioner of the Board of Industry.
At Gilberton (S.A.), at 87, Mrs. Andrew
Smith, mother of Ross and Keith who made
the first England to Australia flight. Bom at
sea on a 500-ton clipper on the voyage from
England, she arrived in Australia in 1860. Her
husband was one-time manager of Mutooroo
Station.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce. .
TO ELLIS AUBREY WALKER formerly of Young.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARIE LOUISE JENNINGS
WALKER has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 5396
of 1946 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards You
may enter an appearance the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 12th Janu-
ary 1948 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. BOYCE & BOYCE, 79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
The greatest show of the week was the
Ceremonial Retreat at Victoria Barracks
Not even Friday’s solid and continuous
drench following on weeks of sodden
weather could take the curl out of that.
Lieut.-General Berryman thought it good,
and after all they are his soldiers, his
barracks and his bands. The Governor,
Lieut.-General Northcott, who sat beside
G.O.C. Berryman on the balcony over-
looking the square, declared lodd enough
for those near by to hear that he thought
the marching and the counter-marching
a fine show, too. It commenced at four-
fifteen when the guard, massed bands and
drum corps marched out to the parade
ground. This was terraced around with
hydrangea profusely flowering and look-
ing fresh and alert in the rain. After the
Governor’s inspection the bands struck
up “My Regiment,” and a volley was fired
to mark the commencement of the cere-
monial.
There was marching and counter-
marching by bandsmen and the drum 1
corps suggestive of some dignified folk-
dance or something from the old-
fashioned lancers. High on the flagmast
the Union Jack flew, and the soft rain-
washed a'fternoon was vibrant with the
beat of drums, martial airs like “The
British Grenadiers” and then Australia’s
own “Waltzing Matilda.” St. Andrew’s
Cathedral choir, too, raised its voice.
Massed before the flag but hidden by the
hydrangea and flowering shrubs from
those on the balcony, the voices rang out
in “O Valiant Heart” and later, after the
ceremony of Retreat which surrounds
the lowering of the flag at nightfall,
“Abide With Me.”
The ceremonial was the pageantry of
a Food Parcels for Britain effort by the
Eastern Command Women’s Auxiliary.
Hundreds attended. Mrs. Berryman was
the afternoon’s hostess, and wore with
her grass-green wool suit a small black
hat and silver-fox furs. Daughter Anne,
fresh from Ascham, helped mother enter-
tain ; her suit was of beige woollen, and
her fair locks were kept smooth with
a plaited bandeau of many-colored
ribbons. Active in the official tea tent
was the popular and efficient wife of
Colonel Paddy Moore. Colonel and Mrs.
Mann, Major Joyce Snelling, Consul-
General for the Netherlands Zylstra and
Mrs. Zylstra, the Tremaine Rodds, prin-
cipal of Scots College Anderson and Mrs.
Anderson, General and Mrs. Herring and
Mrs. M. McPhillamy were among the
vast company.. So was Flight-Lieut.
Nash, who was in attendance on the
Governor.
No sooner was the Ceremonial Retreat
ended than most of the visitors waded
across to the drill-hall to become the cast
in another party. This was the United
Service Institute before-Christmas binge.
The ceiling of the drill-hall was a jungle
of pennants ; every man present was a
soldier, sailor or airman. There were
those who won the 1914-18 war, and
those who won the one just behind us.
The Governor came in with Flight-Lieut.
Nash and private secretary Captain
Martin. Minister for the Army Chambers
was at both affairs. The wife of Dr. John
McGeorge wore on the bodice of her
black frock an exotic bird in jade. The
Keith Morris couple were among the
dancers, and Colonel Spain and daughter
Mrs. Russell were among the throng that
had refused to stay at home because of
the rain.
On the whole the farewell luncheon
given by the Auxiliaries of St. Vincent’s
Hospital to Mrs. Bertie Kelly held an
undertone of grieving. Mrs. Bertie, who
has been so long associated with the
hospital committee, will no longer pre-
side at or be active in the affairs of the
institution which she has helped through
40 years. There must have been 100
women or more gathered in the ballroom
of the Pickwick Club for the occasion.
There were speeches of appreciation, an
eloquent letter was read from Mother
Rectress, there were flowers and more
flowers, there was an exquisite bottle of
Mrs. Bertie’s favorite perfume. Many
of the greatest names in Australia’s medi-
cine and surgery were borne by the
women seated at the tables, most of them
wives, mothers or sisters of notable
doctors. To recite the names would be
like taking a walk along Macquarie-
street, reading the brassplates.
The president and members of the
Bellevue Hill branch of the C.W.A.
finished up their Christmas party in the
Blue Room of David Jones’s in good
time to scurry around even in the teeth
of the customary five-o’clock deluge to
Endeavour House. Here there was an-
other C.W.A. get-together. The just-
returned delegates to the Associated
Country Women of the World Confer-
ence were being entertained. This con-
ference had been held in Amsterdam, and
five delegates had gone from New South
Wales. The four homecomers sat in a
row on the small dais at the end of the
C.W.A. room, and Miss M. E. Payne, of
Nundle, who had led the group, was the
first speaker.
In turn Miss F. M. White, of Armidale,
Mrs. E. A. Coghlan, of Sydney, and Mrs.
J. Ross, of Holbrook, added their out-
standing impressions. The conference,
held in a city almost bare of food and
essentials, had still been impressive. Only
at one gathering, however, had the Aus-
tralians glimpsed the glories of the Dutch
national costumes. They were obviously
family treasures only to be worn on
special occasions. Mrs. Coghlan spoke
with something like pride of the C.W.A.
handcrafts exhibits which the delegates
had taken with them—“there was nothing
better in the displays from any country.”
In fact, the specimens of Irish crochet
sent by Mrs. Moylan, of Narrandera, put
the crochet from the Emerald Isle itself
to voluntary retirement. Toys made of
straw in the Swedish exhibit were a
novelty. State President Mrs. G. L.
Brooks was a guest at both the tea-party
and the welcome to the delegates.
C.W.A. branches throughout the State
can expect early visits from Mrs. W. E.
Hutton, who has just been appointed
president of the C.W.A. Seaside Homes
Appeal. Mrs. Hutton is well-known in
all association activities. For many years
she was president of the Newcastle
branch, and for 10 years secretary of
the Hunter River group. During the war
Mrs. Hutton ran a canteen on a barge
moored at the wharves for the personnel
of the small ships. This earned her the
fond title of “Tugboat Annie.” Profits
of the canteen (£9OO in 12 months) went
to the Servicemen’s Club in Bayswater-
road, Darlinghurst. Photograph by
Norton Trevaire.
Any Sydneyite desirous of securing a
little corner of the beauty of Terrigal
should visit the Harry Dangar show in
the Grosvenor Galleries. Harry has sold
his station properties, and he and his
wife have made their home at Terrigal.
Here the painter works faithfully and
obviously with as deep a feeling for the
pastoral scene as inspired the ancient
Greek or England’s Lake poets. Mention
of those gentry reminds that the
opening day of Harry’s show was
very wet, an absolute deluge pour-
ing down as the visitors left the show!
Frank Finnan, M.L.A., a Terrigal
neighbor of the Harry Dangars,
opened the show. He proved the
sincerity of his phrases by buying
four of the artist’s paintings. Proceeds
go to the Food for Britain Fund.
This is just a reminder that there are
still as attractive a collection of dolls as
any little girl could choose from at the
Legacy Shop, Torch Bearers’ Head-
quarters, 169 Elizabeth-street, City.
Girl Guides and Guiders had a guest
after their own heart at last week’s meet-
ing in St. James’s Hall, Phillip- street. Dell
Hayman, just returned to Australia, was
the leader of the team of Australian
Guiders who were specially asked to do
post-war medical relief in native villages
around Khota Bahru. After that Miss
Hayman went to Britain to report on the
Malayan work, and toured England and
Scotland, speaking on Guide International
Service. The Australian also went to
Germany and saw the work of this
country’s teams there.
The Council of the N.S.W. Branch of
the Royal Empire Society is endeavoring
to extend the cultural relations of the
Empire, and has established a films com-
mittee to arrange talks and screenings of
films illustrative of the British way of
life at meetings of societies,, schools and
clubs in the suburbs of Sydney and in
country centres. With this object in
view, the committee has procured equip-
ment, and arrangements are now in hand
for screenings to take place at various
centres. Last night the inaugural screen-
ing took place at the Macquarie Audi-
torium, Phillip-street.
From Melbourne
Adding to the color and gaiety of the
gala matinee of “Annie Get Your Gun”
were the scarlet-caped, white-veiled
nurses who occupied the boxes. A num-
ber of well-wishers of the War Nurses
Memorial Appeal, for which the matinee
was arranged, had bought seats at the
special prices and given them to nurses
and service personnel. In the downstairs
and dress-circle foyers stalls did a brisk
trade, and the attractive members of Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell’s Younger Set, with
uniformed nurses, and, for part of the
time, the “cow girls” in the show, ex-
tracted lucre with great persuasiveness
from patrons. “Annie,” accompanied by
“Buffalo Bill,” paid a visit to the foyer be-
fore they hurried backstage for the per-
formance. Just before the curtain rose, the
Governor, Sir Winston Dugan, Lady
Dugan and members of the G.H. staff
arrived. Lady Dugan wore a frock of
patterned aqua-blue crepe and a small
blue straw hat. The vice-regal pair were
received by knight Tom Blarney, who is
president of the appeal, his wife and other
members of the. committee. In charge of
the front-of-the-house doings was Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, assisted by Mrs. Nor-
man Spry. In the audience were the Lord
Mayor, Cr. Ray Connelly, the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Hcinze, matrons
A. M. Sage, L. Shaw and Jean Wheatley,
Lady Knox, Mrs. Harold Holt, Mrs.
Charles Lane and Mrs. Claude Flemming.
A Dutch auction for a doll sent specially
from America to Evie Hayes, by her
father, went to the Governor as the high-
est bidder.
Antoine-Kershaw made this photo, of
Irene Mitchell, associate director of Mel-
bourne’s Little Theatre, who is busy with
rehearsals for John Patrick’s play “The
Willow and I,” which will commence at
the Little Theatre on Boxing Night for
a three weeks’ season. Irene has many
production successes to her credit, among
them “The Women,” “Enduring as the
Camphor Tree,” and “Invisible Circus.”
Her presentation on a very ambitious
scale last year of Dorothy Sayers’s “The
Just Vengeance” at the Melbourne Town
Hall was highly regarded, and another
production of similar proportions is in
view for the new year, also * for the
Methodist Church of Victoria. What
leisure Irene can cull from a very full
professional life is devoted to gardening
at her Malvern home, golf or a cross-
country walk with her cocker spaniel.
When Denise Elaine Judd, only child
of the fate Col. C. C. Judd and of Mrs.
F. McCormack, of Toowoomba (Q.), was
married to Capt. David Compton, Aust.
Staff Corps, 12 of the ’groom’s fellow-
officers formed a guard of honor outside
St. Mark’s, Camberwell. The bride’s
old-world gown of white French lace had
long sleeves, a bouffant skirt and a high
neckline finished with a beaded collar.
Her Brussels-lace veil, which had been
worn by her mother and aunt, Mrs. Orton
Townsend, on their wedding days, was
pleated and stiffened to form a tiara, with
gardenias fastened at each side. She
carried gardenias and a blue-velvet-and-
silver prayer-book. The bride was
attended by Mrs. B. Gurr and Winsome
Hardaker, of Sydney; their pale-blue
taffetta frocks were worn with matching
blue straw bonnets, trimmed with cycla-
men ribbons, and they carried tiny
baskets of cyclamen flowers. The bride
was given away by Col. J. Walstab. The
bridegroom, who is the younger son of
Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Compton, of East
Malvern, had Captain B. Wansley as
best man and Major W. Findlayson as
groomsman. The ceremony was per-
formed by Canon P. W. Robinson. Re-
ception was held at the New Alexandra,
where Mrs. McCormack received the
guests, who included Mrs. Orton Towns-
end, Mrs. H. A. Gregory, Capt. and Mrs.
Frank McCaffrey, Lt.-Col. Tim Tape,
Lt.-Col. and Mrs. Ben Dawson, Robin
Mantle and Lindsay Webb.
Miss Byron Moore lent her Collins-
street flat for the party at which the
winner of the first Vera Scantlebury
Brown Memorial Scholarship, Violet
Thelma Baker, was introduced by the
president of the selection committee,
Lady Herring. Miss Baker, who was
attached to the Infant Welfare Caravan
which is controlled by the Vic. Baby
Health Centres’ Association on the Infant
Welfare circuit in the Mallee and North-
western Victoria, will widen her nursing
knowledge and experience with work in
England and Scotland. Lady Herring
had white accessories with her navy-ahd-
white patterned jacket suit. Miss
Byron Moore’s black frock was em-
broidered with small flowers. The
Angliss lady teamed a primrose shirt-
maker frock and • a natural straw hat
banded in black velvet. Dr. Meredith’s
frock was of navy sheer, her small hat
of white straw. Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald,
the Country Women’s Association repre-
sentative on the committee, chose an
aqua-blue ensemble and large white
straw hat.
Madame Rambert, accompanied by
Sally Gilmour, Annette Chappell and
Walter Gore, Webb Tilton and his wife
and the Carl Randalls, members of
the Kiwis and dozens of other well-known
theatricals, went to Melbourne’s Little
Theatre at the invitation of Peter Ran-
dall on Sunday night to see a special per-
formance of “The Crime of Margaret
Foley.” After the performance re-
freshments were served in the little garden
at the back of the quaint old converted
church ; colored electric lights tucked in
the trees were almost dimmed by the
radiance of all the stars gathered below.
Among the guests were Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell —she is Peter’s aunt —Mrs. Olive
Thring, full of son Frank’s doings among
London stage personalities, and Walter
Humphreys, theatrical manager for the
British Council.
A peep into the Princess, where the
dancing of Sally Gijmour in “Lady into
Fox” has been one of the highlights of
the ballet season, disclosed some smart
dressing in d.-c. and stalls. Mrs. Geoffrey
Grimwade’s short frock was of
white jersey, cut with a low neck-
line and heavily-draped bodice. Mary
Ward’s evening gown had quaint little
white figures printed on the blue linen
which alternated with white bands.
Eileen Hattam’s ballerina frock was of
black crepe. The dominant color of the
Robinson lady’s floral frock was royal-
blue. With James Bowen Pain were his
wife and Heather Menzies, daughter of
R. G. Menzies. Mrs. Clifford Ellis wore
an ensemble of navy sheer and a straw
hat upturned at the front with a cluster
of pale-pink roses. Mrs. Gwynne Ellis’s
small hat was covered with cornflowers.
Mrs. Sydney Myer’s short black crepe
frock had gold sequins outlining the neck
and waistline. Mrs. H. F. Creswick wore
a dinner gown of emerald-green crepe.
Mrs. Vyvyan Holland wore a black
chiffon ballerina gown and a bonnet of
blue roses tied with black tulle. Lois
Lathleen’s royal-blue frock featured an
accordion-pleated skirt and gold sequins
on the shoulders.
The Les Colemans got the goodwill
season off to a flying start with an infor-
mal party at the Queens Road Club. Mrs.
Coleman received her guests in a bouffant
frock of pastel - pink lace embellished
with silver beads. Mrs. C. Curtain’s
floral-printed white satin gown was cut
on Grecian lines. Mrs. Ley Forsyth chose
a fine lace gown in mist-blue, the bodicfe
featuring the square neckline. Hazel
Honeyman’s gown of white crepe .was
in the classic style. Mrs. Bob Lane was
in black crepe with heavy blue and gold
embroidery on the sleeves; Mrs. Charles
Lane’s floral silk jersey gown featured a
draped skirt. Evie Hayes, star of “Annie
Get Your Gun,” wore a simple black
crepe ballerina frock. Her mother, Mrs.
Eva Hayes, chose an ensemble of black
taffeta embroidered on the shoulders with
cyclamen. Moira Shelton’s taffetas were
of deep-wine tone ; Diane Weir, now a
graduate in Law, wore a black taffeta
off-the-shoulder frock which had narrow
ruffles outlining the edge of the bodice.
Maida Voigt’s black lace gown featured
the new draped shoulder sleeve.


UNION 'TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
offers & comprehensive service
covering every phase of Estate Manage-
ment , Executorship and Trusteeship ,
and providing for the efficient control
and administration of all related matters ,
ar your personal affairs. •
The expert knowledge gained through
sixty years of Union Trustee experience
in these matters simplifies the handling
of all details.
This efficient service is available at
moderate cost .
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c. ; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g. ; Robert C- Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager; J. G. H, Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager; H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street —A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb,
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862,
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E, R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
' G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
TRAVEL IN GREAT BRITAIN
OLU,
Recovery from war-time conditions is still proceeding
although handicapped by fuel shortages. We are
anxious to welcome visitors from Australia and if
they find train services not quite so frequent or speedy
as before the war, we are sure they will understand.
The world-famous FLYING SCOTSMAN, which never
failed to run during the war, continues its daily journey
over the historic route between LONDON and
EDINBURGH.
LONDON & NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
of England and Scotland.
Representatives in Australia:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 7 Bridge'Street, SYDNEY, and branches.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends
,— *—Pref. x Re-
Sept., Profit. 6 i p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
& & £ £ £
1940. 8125 1,031 14 p.c.=154,000 J
Written off, £44,476 f 282,993
1941. .229,866 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 I SQ
Written off, £43,945 S 29U,z»»
1942. .184,875 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 (
Written off, £44,372 ) toz.ioi
1943. .223,954 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 1 9Rft
Written off, £44,216 j
From staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 263,280
Post-war restoration res. £128,592 391,872
1944. .225,058 8125 16,500 14*p.c.=154,000 1 oqs ikc
Written off, £42,550.. .. 395 ’ 755
1945. .251,170 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 468,300
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,184 .. 508,484
From tax reserve, £70,511 .. 578,995
1946. .254,140 8126 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 654.510
From tax reserve, £15,773 .. 670,283
1947. .245,821 8124 16,500 14 p.c.=157,406 734,074
For the first time since 1942 costs won
the race in this big and progressive pub-
lishing organisation, and they look like
lengthening their lead before the next
balance is struck. Last term more news-
print became available, circulations were
buoyant, and the price-fixing authority
authorised a substantial increase in the
co.’s advertising rates. Trading revenue,
which has about doubled over the last
11 years, shot up £426,885, and an extra
£2659 was received from investments:
Revenue— 1939. 1946. 1947.
Trading .. £1,719,563 £2,455,818 £2,882,703
Investments .. 38,408 75,352 78,011
Total .. £1,757,971 £2,531,170 £2,960,714
Expenditure—
Wages, etc. .. 600,156 677,942 769,767
Printing paper 501,294 891,236 1,234,394
Other exes. . . 369,869 605,786 642,026
Taxation .. 52,723 150,000 118,000
Total .. £1,524,042 £2,324,964 £2,764,187
Net profit .. 233,929 206,206 196,527
On the expenditure side newsprint (up
£343,158) was the hungry animal. The
co. used 30,182 tons (up 6000-odd tons)
of the stuff, Canadian and Tasmanian
• combined, average overall price being
£4O 18s. a ton. Canadian imported rose
from £35 10s., to £3B 14s. for the 12
months to end Sept., 1946, and is now
£45 10s. Growth of £91,825 in the pay-
roll total reflects absorption of staff from
the services, wage lifts, reduction of
hours and increased holidays—excepting
absorption of service personnel, it indi-
cates the Government’s heavy-footed
approach to changing conditions. The
smaller tax provision (down £32,000) was
mainly on account of abolition of War-
time (Co.) Tax,
To the £196,527 of profit claimed in
the accounts, the “Wild Cat” has added
£43,795 allowed for depreciation, plus an
unexplained £5499, all of which the board
tossed into “reserve for post-war restora-
tion of stocks and plant.” This reserve
(now £308,468) is tax free, and if not
ultimately required for the purpose for
which it was set up it is to be transferred
to general reserves.. Depreciation in the
ordinary sense of the term —known to be
liberal in the past—is deducted from the
book value of assets concerned in the
published accounts. The £245,821 (down
£8319) of profit shown in the introductory
table covered pref. divs, and 18.4 p.c. on
the £1,100,000 of ord. capital, compared
with 20.8, 20.6, 18.2, 18.1, 14.5, 18.6 and
21 p.c. back to 1940. The div. (12 p.c.),
and bonus (2 p.c.), together 14 p.c., have
remained steady for the last decade
Owing to the severe dollar drought, and
its unknown duration, the whole world
lies in the shadow of a coming crisis.
For this and other reasons, including the
plight of Britain and our unrequited ex-
ports, the Federal Government has
decided, in the name of scarcity and a
planned economy, to cut our dollar cloth
according to our pocket. Among the
industries hardest hit will be newspaper
production, especially the big metropoli-
tan dailies and the national papers. From
the beginning of 1948 consumption of
newsprint by all newspapers in Australia
is to be cut to 90,000 tons p.a., or 51
p.c. of the pre-war figure. Of this aus-
terity ration, 30,000 tons will come from
the Tasmanian mills, and 25,000 tons
from the stockpile prudently accumulated
by newspaper cos., leaving only 35,000
tons to be imported. With exchange and
prices as they are, imports will cost about
$5,000,000, and, since licences had been
previously granted to import 175,000 tons
during 1948, the cut will reduce the de-
mand for dollars on account of newsprint
by * approx. $20,000,000 —greatest in-
dividual contribution (o Australia’s dollar
savings.
Although the average cut is 51 p.c.,
newspapers using more than 500 tons
p.a. will suffer a cut of 57 p.c. The in-
evitable reduction in size of publications
and curtailment of circulations will dras-
tically reduce co.- revenue, throw some
worthy and conscientious members of a
high calling out of employment, and
interfere with the full functioning of a
service essential to an adequately in-
formed and healthy public opinion in a
free community. Certainly the cut will
reduce the newsprint bill, but to get the
reduction in this and other rigid cost-
factors back proportionately to the fall
in revenue looks like the impossible.
Of this co.’s own eight publications,
the two dailies—“ Herald,” Melbourne’s
unchallenged evening broadsheet, and
“Sun News - Pictorial,” morning com-
petitor of the “Argus” and “Age”—are
the main contributors to the pool. The
associated journals “Courier-Mail” (Bris-
bane) and “Advertiser” and “News”
(Adelaide), together with broadcasting
interests 3DB and 3LK, help to swell
earnings, too. Australian Newsprint Mills
(Tas.), in which H. and W.T. is the
largest shareholder, is about to step up
production from 31,000 tons to over
75,000 tons p.a.—but not much in the
way of increased output need be looked
for until 1950.
H. and W.T.’s big programme of
development and expansion - over
£500,000-worth of plant is on order —
will be further retarded. Last term a
four-storied building in Collins-place
(Melb.) was bought, 100,000 ords. were
exchanged with Advertiser Newspapers,
Ltd., for v an equivalent value of share-
holdings in News, Ltd., and £227,248 net
was added to plant;
1940. 1946. 1947.
Stock .. .. £416,322 £500,895 £607,182
Debtors, etc. .. 189,316 407,954 535,320
Shares in
other cos. . . 726,985 725,444 803,377
Cash. etc. . . 16,938 370,474 21,913
Liquids.. ..£1,349,556 £2,004,767 £1,967,792
Liabilities* . . 115,540 193,447 332,254
Surplus.. ..£1,234,016 £1,811,320 £1,635,538
Freehold, etc. . . 465,456 472,148 521,314
Machinery and
plant .. . . 288,052 121,692 898,940
Net assets .. £1,987,524 £2,405,160 £2,555,792
* Excluding tax reserve, £150,838, 1946-
£llB,OOO, 1947.
The board went outside for an extra
£138,807. The shrinkage in the more or
less liquid surplus was £175,782.
The market, which notes the wide
margin between earnings and distribu-
tions, co.’s pleasing history and prospects
of expansion when enough newsprint be-
comes available, prices the ords. at 765.
(80s, 6d. a couple of months ago). The
return at 765. is 3.7 p.c. on the basis of
a 14 p.c. distribution. The 6} p.c. and
6 p.c. prefs. at 345. and 31s. 6d. respec-
tively yield 3.8 p.c. in each case,
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6' p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1937.. 40,885 10,500 19,200 2400 8,735 337,335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
From contingencies reserve, £51,037 .. 396,’113
1939.. 37,877 10,500 19,200 2400 5,777 401,890
1940.. 41,543 10,500 19,200 2400 9,353 411,243
1941.. 36,717 10,500 19,200 2400 4,617 415 860
1942.. 32,360 10,500 19,200 2400 260 416,120
1943.. 37,837 10,500 19,200 2400 5,737 421,857
9 p.c.
1944. . 34,942 10,500 21,600 2400 442 422,299
Added investment reserve, £398 .. 422’g97
10 p.c.
1945.. 37,296 10,500 24,000 2400 396 423 093
From inner reserves, £64,346.. .. 487 439
1946.. 40,427 10,500 24,000 2400 3,527 490’966
8 p.c.
194;.. 32,317 10,500 19,200 2400 217 491,183
* Subject to goodwill, £BO.OOO.
Turnover increased, yet there was a
contraction of £BllO in net earnings,
which were the poorest for 30 years. Ris-
ing costs, chiefly wage lifts and the price
of raw materials, etc., were the trouble.
In this class of business —the co. is in the
difficult dry-goods trade —margins are
narrow and selling prices are controlled,
making net results sensitive to fluctua-
tions in either turnover or costs.
After allowing whatever was; con-
sidered necessary for taxation and other
contingencies, last term’s trading profit
(£13,304) was £1064 lighter, and there
was a slip of £1065 in the return from
investments (£18,994). Including £l9
dropped from somewhere into reserves,
the profit was £32,317, or enough to pay
the pref. and B share divs. and then
show 8.1 p.c. on the £240,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 11.4, 10.1, 10,
10.4, 8, 9.9 and 11.9 p.c. back to 1940.
So the cautious board dropped the 2 p.c.
bonus sent out with the 8 p.c. div. in the
two preceding years ; and the trend of
costs makes early restoration of the 2 p.c.
doubtful.
In the market the price of the f.-p.
pound ords. rose steadily from 49s'. 6d.
(ceiling) at end 1946 to 575. in May, then
eased to 555. in June, and has remained
fairly steady since. The return at 555.
is 2.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or 3.6
p.c. should the distribution rise to 10
p.c. again. The 7 p.c. prefs. at 365. yield
3.9 p.c. Net tangible cover is £6 ss. 6d.
prefs. and 61s. 7d. ords.
'lmpressed by the cp.’s strength, finan-
cial and otherwise, the market is con-
fident of the co.’s future. When the books
closed the £430,000 of capital had the
support and assistance of £491,183 of re-
serves (mainly in Government securities),
the lot subject to £BO,OOO of goodwill.
The co. trades on short-term both as
buyer and seller, thus eliminating the
risks inherent in “supported” accounts ;
and its string of warehouses scattered
throughout the Commonwealth is fed
from its own factories in all States ex-
cept Tasmania. Bright spots in the out-
look are expanding turnover, elimination
of War-time (Co.) Tax and the assault
now being made upon costs by remodel-
ling and modernisation of factories and
plant—it might be a year or two before
the full benefit of outlay on plant, etc., is
felt.
The next table shows how stoutly-
ribbed the co. is:
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 34,248 91,696 30,803 41,358
Tax reserve .. 20,000 70,000 95,819 66,717
Freeholds .. 144,264 149,873 161,945 158,944
Plant, etc. . . 38,574 20,376 25,219 31,964
Stocks.. .. 126,616 136,210 144,340 133,604
Sundry debtors ' 92,241 72,902 68,980 61,144
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 420,487 576,219 601,704 573,857
Last term Government securities, etc.,
were drawn upon for £27,847 —they
were still £143,857 in excess of paid capi-
tal, and far in excess of any likely addi-
tional outlay on plant, etc. The year’s
shrinkage in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£662,527) was £16,875.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends
Ist 2nd Nominal
Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Written Re-*
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 6£ p.c. 3 p.c. Off. serve*t
£,£/£, £ £ £
1939.. 50,693 18,000 19,360 Nil 7,530 42,737
1940.. 56,061 18,000 19,360 Nil 8,274 53,164
1941.. 64,535 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,485 59,706
1942.. 62,603 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,473 64,328
1943.. 59,388 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,384 65,824
4 p.c.
1944.. 63,682 18,000 19,360 16,198 8,094 67,854
5 p.c.
1945.. 68,660 18,000 19,360 20,247 6,578 72,329
6 p.c.
1946.. 80,382 18,000 19,360 24,296 7,151 83,904
Capital profit, £13,817 .. .. 97,721
1947.. 86,692 18,000 19,360 24,296 8,733 114,024
t Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Immediate prospects for shareholders
look more encouraging than at any time
since the co. ran into trouble during the
economic blizzard of the early 1930’5,
following which half (£219,790) of the
ord. capital and £23,558 of reserves were
jettisoned—this mainly on account of the
failure of Craig, Williamson (Melb.).
What the less immediate future holds for
the business it is impossible to say at
the moment: Government policy is to
restrict further expansion of t.-p. sale of
consumer goods, costs are rising and
nobody is quite sure what will happen to
overseas prices.
The co. does a large trade—much of
it on a t.-p. basis —in drapery, clothing,
furniture, furnishings, crockery, sporting
goods, etc. Headquarters are at Central
Square (Sydney), and there are branches
at Newcastle, Wollongong and Dubbo.
Also, the co. owns all the £lOO,OOO of


DAVIES & COLUSON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy 4
OSUIJJVAN
mm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
Advertising creators and
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST ’ CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors’. THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairmanj F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MS
■ m
Hi
Head Office: Melbourne.
71 Years of
Service and Progress
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1947 SHOWS THAT THE
SOUND PROGRESS OF THE T. & G. HAS BEEN WELL
MAINTAINED.
NEW POLICIES —During the year, 132,551
new Life Policies assuring £26,649,968, and
11,003 new Accident and Sickness Policies assuring
£3,678,866, were issued in Australia and New
Zealand, demonstrating the continued popularity
of the Society.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE The
esteem in which the Society is held is shown by the
total Assurances in Force in the Ordinary and
Industrial Departments, which increased to
£160,643,791.
INCOME —The Income for the year exceeded
£9,918,000, a record increase of more than
£830,000 over the previous year’s total.
SECURITY —The Society is in an unassailable
financial position. The Assets, which are held in
trust to meet Policy liabilities, have increased by
£4.168,000 to £56,594.000.
SERVICE— The T. & G. is a Mutual Life
Society. It is a truly co-operative Institution which
has no shareholders and is entirely owned by the
Policyholders. It renders the utmost service to its
members, and settles all claims promptly. During
the year, £3,800,000 was paid to Policyholders,
making a total of more than £31,000,000 during
the last 10 years.
GROUP ASSURANCE The Society
specializes in Staff Superannuation and Group
Provident Schemes on terms most advantageous to
Employers and Employees. Many hundreds of such
Schemes, which operate on the mutual principle,
have been entrusted to the Society.
A POLICY WITH THE T. & G. IS A SAFE AND
PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
MUTUAL LIFE SDCIETI
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society
1 Limited (Incorporated in Victoria).
ord. capital in Bon Marche, drapers
(Sydney), and about four years ago it
bought 67,261 £1 ords. at par in Miller
Anderson, drapers (Adelaide).
For the markedly improved level of
earnings over the last couple of years
shareholders can thank better returns
from investments as well as the co.’s
own expanding turnover. For the first
time since 1-930 the ords. in Bon Marche
came into the picture with 5 p.c. for
each of the last two years; Miller-
Anderson’s scrip has returned a steady
6 p.c. since purchase.
Last term the parent shared in
the general experience; all sections
of 'the business contributed to a
“big increase in sales.” After provid-
ing for taxation and allowing £8733 for
depreciation (shown as written off in the
table), the amount available for share-
holders was £77,959 (up £4728). That
covered the pref. divs. and 10 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with 8.8, 6.1, 4.5,
3.3 and 4.1 p.c. back to 1942. The div.
was kept at 6 p.c., and no harm will be
done if it remains there until the prop
for capital (no\y £41,646 in excess of
goodwill) is substantially strengthened.
Sale of one of the co.’s properties in
Smail-street (Sydney) yielded a surplus of
£13,817, which Was sent direct to reserves.
A freehold was bought at Dubbo, and
a small furniture-making business was'
purchased in Newcastle. Settlement has
not yet been made on account of resump-
tion by the Commissioner for Railways
of the co.’s old property at the corner
of George and Pitt streets. There was a
net reduction of £8640 in the book value
of freeholds and a growth of £9649 in
the plant item:
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Mortgages. . 507,769 291,680 261,250 419,565
Other debts* 109,800 163,410 219,437 294,173
Freeholds, etc. 675,886 700,071 700,855 692,215
Plant, etc. 67,071 34,591 32,951 42,600
Stocks . . 181,360 293,687 278,215 434,014
Book debts 559,774 262,922 311,525 430,588
Shares, etc. 118,913 173,643 172,916 175,319
Cash, etc... 6,388 32,840 41,512 26,410
Goodwill .. 72,378 72,378 72,378 72,378
* Includes provision for taxation.
Outstanding features were the year’s
growths of £155,799 in stocks and of
£119,063 in book debts. To help meet
the outlay mortgages were increased by
£158,315 and other debts, etc., by £74,736.
There was an improvement of £29,112
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£352,593).
Capital is in 300,000 £1 first 6 p.c. and
297,848 £1 second 6\ p.c. cum, prefs.,
not subject to the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act, and 809,876 10s. ords.
The market prices the firsts at 255. 3d.
and the seconds at 255. 9d., at which
figures the return is 4.7 p.c. and 5 p.c.
respectively. The ords. at 11s. return
4.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 695. 7d. firsts, 50s.
seconds and 11s. ords.
Optimistic press reports early this year
about the possible occurrence of large
quantities of silver-lead ore in the Eve-
leigh district (Q.) are not supported by
the recent investigations of Government
geologists Denmead and Ridgway. The
old Chillagoe Co., with which J. S. Reid,
Col. F. G. Hughes and Vic. Saddler were
associated, overhauled the area in 1911,
but did nothing with it; and some further
prospecting was carried out in 1920.
Present operations commenced with the
discovery early this year of some kernels
of outcropping galena by V. Pollard,
whose holding is the only one considered
worth attention. Here an irregular ore-
body of no great length contains some
rich patches of lead, with the possibility
of mixed lead-copper-zinc sulphides com-
ing in at depth. For the most part the
galena occurs as kernels distributed
irregularly through the rock.
* * *
“Goldie”: Goldmining in Victoria con-
tinues to flag, and there seems little
likelihood of a revival while present con-
ditions prevail. Official encouragement
and assistance are lacking, chiefly be-
cause Federal grants for the purpose
have ceased. Tent and tools plus
sustenance allowance, once provided to
prospectors, are no longer available.
With plenty of prospects awaiting testing
and development, men aren’t prepared
to chance their luck on the fields
unless some contribution is made to their
subsistence while unprofitably engaged.
Other, factors contributing to the gold-
mining decline are shortage of labor,
machines and parts and restrictions on
capital for companies. Increased pro-
duction of gold would prove a handy
asset at the present time. Gold means
dollars, but the Government doesn’t
appear to be aware of the significance of
greater output.
,** * *
Subscription by Phoenix Mines, N.L.,
of its quota of 135,000 ss. contribs. in
Central Norseman’s new issue of 720,000
shares, and then the offer of these con-
tribs. to its own shareholders on the same
terms, gives the public a direct interest in
Central Norseman, Western Mining
Corp. takes the remainder of the issue.
The money is required to sink a new shaft
from which new ore-bodies below No.
22 level will be opened up. After the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile producers and
Sons of Gwalia, Central Norseman ranks
as the best goldmine in Westralia.
* * * *
New Coolgardie Gold Mines, N.L.,
the first of a few new Westralian cos.
to be formed by a group of Anglo-Aus-
tralian speculators to operate at the Cool-
gardie end of Hampton Plains (W.A.), has
been registered in Melbourne with a capi- -
tal of £600,000 in 1,200,000 10s. shares,
of which 490,000 are offered and
are to be called to Is. each. Original
subscribers are Western Mining Corp.,
Walter Massy-Greene and G. L.
Clark. Estimated value of the enter-
prise, including plant, is £169,281.
Over 50 years of prospecting failed
to prove that payable gold-carriers on
■Hampton Plains go down very far.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas, N.L., thinks
well of Blue Spec (W.A.), in which it
holds 60,000 shares. Developments, it
says, are exceptionally good on the 400 ft.
level, where some 300 ft. of driving has
been in ore estimated to contain loz. of
gold and 5 p.c. of antimony a ton. Full
width of the ore has not been proved,
but boreholes in the drive indicate it to
be at least 10ft. Values in a crosscut
50ft. below No. 4 level are estimated to
average 21.9 dwt. over 17ft. Milling is
expected to begin again this month, and
profitable returns are officially tipped.
* * * »
Evanston Gold (W.A.) has not lived up
to official expectations. The main lode
has pinched in the most westerly work-
ings, and diamond-drilling for parallel
ore-bodies has so far been unsuccessful.
There appear to be enough ore and resi-
dues to keep the treatment plant going
for another 12 months; whether it can
be treated at a profit remains to be seen.
The secretary says approximately £46,000
worth of gold was produced over the last
12 months, but doesn’t mention how
much was spent to get it.


No. 23 of Series
Soda Water...
• x•a
«*•
••
••
••
••
• •
• •_••
• •
•_*_•
• •
•:•
• •
ora
ara a
■
•-•la
ara a
•Tar*
ara
•rara
ara
ara
■ m
aV
ara
Va
a.a
a a
faPX
• VVa*
SODA WATER is manufactured from ordinary
water by forcing into it carbon dioxide gas
under high pressure. The higher the pressure the
more gas disappears into the liquid. When you
press the trigger of a soda syphon the gas pressure
forces the soda water up the glass tube and out of
the spout/ The air pressure which now surrounds
the soda water is much less than that in the soda
water in the syphon and the gas reappears as pin-
point bubbles which grow rapidly, rise to the surface
and jump out, causing the soda water to bubble or
"effervesce.” Carbon dioxide gas is produced in
the brewing of beer and in various industrial pro-
cesses such as, the manufacture of synthetic am-
monia. It is collected and compressed into steel
cylinders or turned into solid bricks for use by the
soda water manufacturer. The British
chemical industry produces large quan-
tities of compressed carbon dioxide
and all the solid forms of this gas, for
use in manufacturing processes.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment—Savings Certificates
IL-37-16
:;»;S
rjfA
I
Q
Airway Cam, to
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvas
with leather-bound
edges, are made foe
flying. The supply
is limited . . .
but increasing!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Had Saturday produced any further rain on
top of the previous few weeks’ accumulated
moisture the S.T.C. would have had to abandon
its Rosehill meeting, but the sun broke through
and saw the day out. And, oddly, the track
proved good enough for two winners to cover
the seven-furlongs trip in 1.25, only
outside what was the course record till Shannon
ran his remarkable 1.22| last year.
Running that reccjrd, Shannon was extended
by the Queenslander Dowborough. Now
trained by McCarten, Dowborough again set
a rattling pace in Saturday’s Flying, and was
again pipped. Though it’s good to see
the younger riders given every opportunity it
seemed a mistake that the Flying, as the most
interesting race on the card and the last chance
of getting a pointer on the Villiers, should
have been restricted to apprentices with five
wins or fewer.
Dowborough was favorite at twos. He was
beaten a neck by fast-finishing Strathdarr, ridden
a well-judged race by R. Pearse, Apprenticed
to H. Darwon, who’s also master of the lead-
ing apprentice T. Mullane, Pearse had had only
two previous race mounts.
Strathdarr isn’t in the Villiers, and Dow-
borough, though he may be in front most of
the way, has been too often overhauled in
shorter races to be recommended with any
confidence for a hard mile. Third in the
Flying, Hava Chat has been’ showing model
consistency of late, but may be outclassed next
Saturday. Prince Standard, a galloper of real
class, finished fourth, but he’s been giving the
Lewis stable a lot of trouble.
It’s hard to go beyond Native Son for the
Villiers. With 8.11 he has 111b. more than he
won with last year, and a fair bit above the
average carried by past winners of the race,
but at his last two starts he has won over
shorter trips with 9.2 and 9.7. Hiraji, if saddled
up, can be relied on for his usual honest
performance, but at his first start since winning
the Melbourne Cup he has the job of downing
hprses who have done a racing preparation for
the mile. Young Veilmond is another likely
to run a very good race.
The 10-furl®ngs December Handicap saw
Piccolo score a comfortable win, which sur-
prised most punters, though a starting price
of 7 to 1 suggested confidence in some quarters.
New Zealand-bred, by Inflation from Sweet
Music, Piccolo has been contesting sprint events,
which didn’t suggest he’d be fancied at a
middle distance. Doon had him in front most
of the way, to win quite comfortably from
consistent Cape Neddick and Buzz Off. Prince
Standard’s stablemate and fellow-Derby-winner
Concerto finished fourth close up to Buzz Off.
Concerto is in both Villiers and Summer Cup.
Heaven and Inglis know how many thousand
guineas were represented by the 46 two-year-
olds contesting a couple of 4i-furlong scampers
for maidens of the age; six out of the 46
split £IOOO prizemoney between ’em. Ridden
by G. Moore, Meteor (Le Grand Due-Night
Chance) proved the best of the colts and geld-
ings, downing Fox Valley and Validas, both
by Valiant Chief, and A. Ward’s mount, San
Mateo accounted for
Salome, Susan and other fillies.
The best performance seen in other events
was that of Mine Host (J. Waterhouse),
setting his own pace to win the first Mixed
Stakes (7f.) by five lengths from Lucky Escape
and Caruso in the same time as Strathdarr took
for the Flying. By Ajax from Inheritance,
Mine Host carries the same colors as did
Magnificent and this year’s Breeders’ Plate-
winner Riptide. It was Mine Host’s first win,
but shouldn’t be his last.
In the second Mixed (7f.) Morning Glory
(R. Kerrigan) took two seconds longer to down
Mirrigen, with Man at Arms and Lady Bevron
“If We don't get rheumatism out of this I'll eat my hat."
splitting £60 third money. In the 10-furlongs
Mixed, Menelik (J. Eaves) again showed that
his luck has changed for the better by downing
Binnia Gift and Kureebi. The Welter gave
Blanmar (E. Fordyce) an all-the-way win from
Skip Bomber and hot favorite Johnny Zero.
* * * *
For either contestants or spectators con-
ditions couldn’t have been much worse than
they were at Moonee Valley on Saturday, rain
setting in before midday and continuing through
the afternoon without doing much to relieve
the sticky heat. Battered by the elements,
punters also had much the worse of the battle
with the books.
Main interest was in the reappearance of St.
Fairy, reports from the tracks suggesting that
he was ready for a first-up win. Passing over
the mile Essendon Handicap, for which he had
accepted with 9.11, Porter started his St.
Magnus horse in the six-furlongs Fawkner
Welter with 10.5—a terrific plaster on a track
by then decidedly heavy. Unable to keep up
with the lightweights in the early stages, St.
Fairy was well to the rear at the turn, and,
struggling on in the straight, did well to finish
ahead of even half the field; he was seventh.
Though he looked well above himself, St. Fairy
was a bookmakers’ favorite, starting at twos
after 5 to 4 had been offered and widely
declined. The best backed horse in the race
was Upheaval (R. Heather), forced down in
the betting from tens to fours, and he won
it from Dureisani and Hawa Rani, who had
led them up. For such a solidly-backed winner
Upheaval met with a particularly hostile recep-
tion after the race; he’s a son of Hostile.
Considering the state of the track, Upheaval
clocked excellent time — Winning the
second division from High Production and
Brumagem, E. John-
stone’s mount Prince
Curl, a half-brother to
Valcurl, took 1.15.
In the Essendon
Handicap El Banco
started favorite, tried to
lead all the way and was
just pegged on the post
by the 14-to-l chance
Standard Time, one of.
the Greenwich breed.
T. Unkovich had the
winner always close to
the front; Lunar Lynx,
on the other hand, came
from last at one stage,
to bag third money.
Punters who don’t
mind laying the books
the odds had the chance
to do so with three
runners going for them
in the Bulla Handicap
of 13 furlongs, Promise
You, Orthodox and
Manakau sharing
favoritism at 7 to 2.
Rewarding the consis-
tency shown at several
recent outings, the
Golden Promise gelding
Promise You (W. Williamson) went to the front
at the turn and, with Mokan in hot pursuit,
lasted it out to the post; Orthodox was third.
Rounding the turn in the Glenbervie Plate
for two-year-old colts and geldings, H. Badger,
on the Hoysted-trained Gay Saint, had to make
that split-second decision which, either way,
wins or loses so many races; to hope for the
best on the rails or to switch to the outer.
Badger decided aright, taking the St. Magnus
colt out and just getting up to head Star of
Gold, who had tried to lead all the way. Gay
Saint is from Gay Memories, dam of the
speedy Gay Queen.
The Moreland Stakes was a similar event for
fillies and regarded as a gift for the Enfield
filly Chosen, who was never at better than
evens. The favorite’s chance was settled at the
start; she was last when they’d gone a furlong
and did well to finish third with a dozen,
behind her. Carrying colors associated with
many of E. A. Connolly’s betting plunges and
now used by L. F. Aldridge, the Caithness filly
Lady Sinclair (E. Preston) led nearly all the
way to give former jockey Ashley Reed his
first success as a trainer. Second was Lorella,
one of the first crop of the brilliant Yaralla.
Punters had to lay the books 6 to 4 to
collect on the only outright favorite successful
on the day, a maiden performer at that;
Bontout (A. Breasley) downing Monte Cassino
and Cronides in the mile Three-year-old Handi-
cap.
* * * *
The best two-year-old of the current American
season is the colt Grand Pere, broth of whose
parents were from Australia. Sire was the
now-defunct Beau Pere; dam, the Heroic mare
Brave Bird. Grand Pere was bred by Louis B.
Mayer, who always held Australian blood in
very high regard. Over the past year Mayer
has been gradually selling out all his turf in-
terests; Grand Pere went to his present owner
for 30,000 dollars, Grand Pere’s record to
date is 13 starts for seven wins and four
seconds. Last Saturday he won the 10,000-
dollar Salinas Handicap, carrying top weight of
8.12 and cutting out a mile in 1.35 —great time
for a two-year-old.
* Jfc * *
Recognised there at its full value as a source
of exports and an attraction for foreign cur-
rency, the turf receives every encouragement
in England, and racing is not only back to
normal but is really booming. The 1949 Don-
caster St Leger Stakes has attracted 447 entries,
a record for any race in England, the previous
highest being 440 for the 1948 St. Leger. Among
the entries are 74 French horses. There has
also been a record number of 420 nominated
for the Derby: there were 404 in 1931.
* * * *
1 Yelling “Down with A.J.C. Star Chamber
methods!” some no doubt well-meaning parties
are crusading for a public tribunal to hear
appeals against penalties. Gollan, M.L.A.
for Randwick, and Geraghty (North Sydney)
have taken up the cry in the Sydney Parlia-
ment, which misguidedly talks of doing some-
thing about it. The objection seems to be
to the AJ.C.’s power to investigate cases
in qfivate and to deliver judgment without
having to give any detailed whys and where-
fores. Surely in that power lies its chief effec-
tiveness as a controlling body. If it is going
to be necessary for these matters to .be heard
openly and the verdict to be legally deliberated
in a public court, then there simply aren’t going
to be any convictions. That is, if the same
rules apply as do in any other court of law,
where guilt must be proven beyond reasonable
doubt and the accused gets the benefit of
any doubt which does exist. The only way
that one could prove beyond doubt that a
horse had been pulled would be for the jockey
to swear before the Court that he had done so.
And isn’t that likely! *
Supporters of the proposed tribunal evidently
subscribe ta the notion that it’s better to
jxonerate 50 guilty parties than see one innocent
man wronged. All right in its way, but in
chose cases where the A.J.C. sees fit to take
action the proportion would be more like 1000
to 1. A.J.C. chairman A. G. Potter is reported
to have declared that “the establishment of an
appeals tribunal would be the end of clean
racing.” Gollan professed to see in this “a
gratuitous insult to our Judiciary,” but it’s
the truth and nothing less.
Apart from that, why should the time of
any Judge be wasted on such a matter? If
we are to have a racing-appeals court, why not
one to hear the appeals of a League footballer
outed for lug-biting, or a team club-fined for
seeing too many footballs after too many high-
balls, or the mat-mauler disqualified for putting
a scissors on the ref. —in fact, for any infrac-
tions of the niceties of professional sport?
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A statement that “Maori-
landers dispense with their teeth at the average
age of 14” indicates a lack of calcium in their
diet, and tosses a belief long held in my circle
of bookies’ laborers—that thoroughbreds from
across the Tasman are bigger-boned and, con-
sequently, better weight-carriers than the Aus-
tralian neddies, on account of their calcium-
enriched diet. We naturally ascribed some
bone-building properties to the herbage of the
country, and concluded that it would find its
way into the human diet. If we’re wrong, it
means another system gone up in smoke.
* * * * ,
For Randwick (before acceptances):
December Nursery (fillies): Midwise, 1; Grey
Nurse, 2; So Sweet, 3. Three-year-old: Prince
Mohican, I; Boycott, 2; Shading, 3. December
Juvenile: Dynamite, 1; Simpkin, 2; Phalanx, 3.
Encourage: Ruawalla, 1; Yamboon, 2; Steady,
3. Villiers; Native Son, 1; Hiraji, 2; Young
Veilmond, 3 (for a heavy track, Johnny Zero).
December Handicap: Sweet Chime, 1; Cape
Neddick, 2; Loyal March, 3. Welter; Lady
Marie, 1; Panetic,. 2; Cherie Marie, 3.
* * * *
Soaked Indians:
The Indians, in the words of the troops, have
just about had the weather. They take a dim
view of it, from the stands.
At Warwick (Q.) the powers that be even
threw hailstones at ’em. At Warwick? Weil,
after all, perhaps that wasn’t an egg Billy once
stopped there! Maybe it was just a hailstone
with a yolk in it.
The Warwick game (v. Queensland Country)
having thus being pelted out, with the score
India. 333, Q.C. 8 for 145, the visitors headed
south for the second Test. They won the toss
and went |n for a while on Friday; but, Syd-
ney Cricket Ground having had enough wet
to be “sporty,” it was 2 for 38 when the
heavens opened from the southern or Randwick
end and clean-bowled everything for the day.
In what was optimistically called the
“luncheon adjournment” (they could have gone
on lunching, under covers, for the next 24
hours), N.S.W.C.A. presented Bradman with
a 39-piece set of cut-glass by way of memento
of his recent hundredth hundred in first-class
games.
After mopping-up operations had cleared the
ground of billabongs, mushrooms and tadpoles,
play continued on Saturday: India all out 188;
Australia 1 for 28. The one out was Brown,
for the second time stumped by bowler Mankad,
as, four feet out of his crease, he thoroughly
deserved to be. McCool (3), Johnston, Miller
and Johnson (2 each) and Lindwall (1) bagged
the Indian wickets.
On Monday it was pelting more rain; very
tough luck for the visitors, whose takings on
the tour are working out in pice instead of
quids.
Westralia had its second Sheffield Shield win,
beating Victoria at Perth by 59 runs on the
first innings. The Westralians went close to
another outright win. Needing to make 246
in 225 mins., they were five wickets down and
only 40 short of the required total at stumps.
“Long Leg”: Harvey brothers Merv, Neil
and Ray have made an Australian record by
all three playing together in a Sheffield Sjhield
match. Pairs of brothers who have played for
Australia in a match are Dave and Ned Gregory
(1877), George and Walter Giffen (1892), Harry
and Albert Trott (1895). The Grace trio
(W.G., E.M. and E.F.) put on pads v.
Australia at Kennington Oval in September,
1880; the match in which W.G. scored the
first century for England in Tests. Billy
Murdoch topped W.G.’s score with 153 not
out in Australia’s second innings—the second
Test century for Australia, the first having
been made by Charlie Bannerman (165 retired,
at Melbourne in March, 1877). Grace and
Murdoch were the captains in the Kennington
match.
* * * *
The Wallabies, after beating the Irish
side, Munster, 6-5, had another narrow
victory at Swansea, winning 11-8. The
Wallabies took a long time to settle


BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder. 533
Missing Friends.
TO WREXFORD HENRY WALKE formerly of 80
Crimea Street Caulrield in the State of Victoria. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife has commenced
divorce proceedings against you on the ground of
desertion Unless you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
of Victoria in Melbourne on or before the 14th day
of January 1948 the case may proceed In your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs If
you intend to defend this suit you must also file
an answer in the said office on or before the 7th
day of February, 1948 —ELLISON, HEWISON &
WHITEHEAD, of 352 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
BUTLER, MARY AMELIA, Estate.—lnformation is
sought as to the whereabouts of the next-of-kin of
PATRICK JAMES BUTLER, a brother of the said
Mary Amelia Butler. Anybody knowing the where-
abouts of any of such next-of-kin kindly communicate
with T. J. PURCELL, Solicitor, of 66 King Street,
Sydney, where information to their advantage can be
obtained.
GEM
SPECIAL!
fire
*?•
Sc
Ot*S
I LB
<T)O
r
THIS
GEM SET
GEM RAZOR - 2 GEM BLADES
IN BAKELITE CASE— NOW FOR
FROM most Stores, Chemists
and Tobacconists-
GEM
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
KEENER THAN EVER ”
NOW 5 FOR 1/9
New Zealand National Thoroughbred Sales
RECORD ENTRY OF 519 YEARLINGS
SALE DATES: -
Wednesday, 14th January - - Yearlings ' Wednesday, 21st January - - Yearlings
Thursday, 15th January - - Yearlings Friday, 23rd January - - - Yearlings
Monday, 26th January - - - 150 Brood Mares, Racehorses, Untried Stock
Come to New Zealand in January when the climate is at its best and you may buy a future
Melbourne Cup or Derby winner. Remember both Hiraji and Fresh Boy, first an secon in e
1947 Melbourne Cup, and the champion filly. Nizam’s Ring, were all bred in New Zealand and
were bought by Commissioners for their new owners.
THE NEW ZEALAND NATIONAL SALES PROVIDE THE LARGEST PERCENTAGE
OF WINNERS OF ANY SALE HELD IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD.
Since 1929 a total of 119 Classic Winners in Australia and New Zealand have been catalogued
for sale. Already this season no less than six of the seven Guineas’ winners m New Zealand
figured in the catalogue. The past winter was one of the best ever experienced in New Zea an ,
and, invariably following such a mild season, many notable champions appear, for the yearlings
have grown and thrived amazingly. The 1948 catalogue includes the progeny of 71 Sires, no
less than 19 of these being represented for the first time. Intending Buyers are offered the very
best that Breeders can produce as the latter aim to offer the best they breed without reservation.
The Record Catalogue comprises:—
287 COLTS 232 FILLIES
100 BROOD MARES (All tested for pregnancy)
50 RACEHORSES IN TRAINING and UNTRIED STOCK
71 LEADING SIRES REPRESENTED
New Zealand has never previously in its
history approached such a galaxy of sires as are
now in the Dominion. FOXBRIDGE, leading
•sire for the past seven years, established a
British Empire Record last season by siring the
winners of over £82,000 in stakes, while two
of his daughters are the dams of Hiraji and
Fresh Boy; he has 13 representatives in the
catalogue; GOLD NIB, by Dastur and who
is closely related to Foxbridge, is represented
by 25 yearlings from his first crop; he was a
class two-year-old winner, ran third in the 2000
Guineas, etc., and won over miles at 4 years;
BEAU REPAIRE and his half-brother ROYAL
CHIEF, who respectively sired first and second
in the 1947 N.Z. Cup in Beau le Havre (car.
9.3) and Royal Tan / (winner 1946 N.Z. Derby),
have 23 representatives; NIZAMI and
REVELATION, who sired first and second in
' the 1947 Melbourne Cup and who have sired
a host of class winners in Australia and N.Z.
this season, have 21 representatives; LORD
BOBS, a proven performer of great class,
PICTAVIA, son of an Oaks winner, and
CIMBRONE, the first sons of England’s lead-
ing stallion, Nearco, to come to this part of
the world, will be represented by a great array
of yearlings, totalling 47; PHEROZSHAH, by
Pharos and half-brother to the champion sire,
Mahmoud, and AIRWAY, by Fairway from
the dam of the Gold Cup winner, Umidad, both
of whom have sired winners in England, will
have 20 representatives: BEAU VITE, sire of
this year’s N.Z. Derby winner, Liebestraum,
and other notable sons of the great sire, Beau
Pere, in SIR BEAU, BEAU LEON, BEAU-
LIVRE, ARVAKUR, SILVER STICK have
29 representatives; BALLOCH, half-brother to
Beau Pere and Mr. Standfast, and who was
leading sire of two-year-olds in N.Z. last year
and again leads this year, has 24 representatives;
BULANDSHAR, sire of the great High Caste
and of ,the champion mare Soneri, and a host
of classic winners, has 21 representatives;
PROBATION, notable, staying son of the great
English stayer Trimdon, and from a sister to
the English classic winner and famous sire
Rhodes Scholar, has, 21 representatives. His
first season’s progeny sold for high prices last
year and have already commenced winning;
ROBIN GOODFELLOW, second in the English
Derby to Bahram, and who sired many winners
in England as well as in N-Z., has 21 represen-
tatives; FINIS, winner of the Gold Cup and
half-brother to the Derby winner Felstead, and
whose first three-year-old runner won the
Dunedin Guineas this season, has 15 represen-
tatives; CORONACH, famous English Derby
and St. Leger winner and noted sire of classic
winning two- and three-year-olds in N.Z., has
11 representatives; RUTHLESS, brilliant son
of the champion sire, Hyperion, from the great
staying mare Correa, by Coronach, and half-
sister to the classic winners Watling Street
(Derby) and, Garden Path (2000 Guineas), is
represented by his first crop of 16 yearlings;
DEFAULTER, great racehorse and sire who
has the largest percentage of winners of any
horse at the stud in N.Z., has 13 representatives,
as has the young sire STOURBRIDGE, by
the extraordinarily successful Lang Bian; KIN-
CARDINE, sire of the great Kindergarten and
of many other notable Cup and Handicap win-
ners, has 10 representatives; TREASURE
HUNT, a new sire of great promise by un-
beaten Bahram (Triple Crown winner) and
from the dam of the English classic winner
Picture Play, and related to the great English
success Signal Light, has 12 representatives,
while BAHERSHAH, another well-performed
son of Bahram, has 9 representatives; NEP-
TUNE, a highly-successful young sire by
Hyperion and half-brother to the English Derby
winner Blue Peter, has 11 representatives;
PAPER BOY, a brilliant winner by Colorado
Kid and descending from famous Sceptre, has
11 representatives; the consistently successful
sire TIDERACE, by Fairway, has 12 represen-
tatives; and other notable young and proven
sires have the representation shown in brackets
as follows: PARCHMENT (9), FELOUS (8),
BROIEFORT (8), LEIGHON (8), SIR
CRUSOE (8), MARBLE FAUN (7), SIR
BEAU (6), NIGHTMARCH (5), RING-
MASTER (4), NINTH DUKE (4), ORELIO
(4), SOLICITOR GENERAL (4), LAMBOURN
(4), GOLD STAND (4), SIEGFRIED (3),
TWEED II (3), ANCIENT BRITON (3), KEN-
TUCKY (3), SPIRAL (2), CHATSWORTH (2),
LO ZINGARO (3), MEDIEVAL KNIGHT (2),
LEGATEE (2), RHODES SCHOLAR (2),
WOTAN (2), FEARLESS COMMANDO (2),
CHRISTOPHER ROBIN (1), THEIO (1),
MARIO (1), TOUCHWOOD (1), NIGHTLY
(1), WILD CHASE (1), TUHITARATA (1),
TE HERO (1), ST. BOSWELLS (1), PLATO
a>, PAPER SLIPPER (1), JOVIAL SON (1),
FRANCIS DRAKE (1) and SLY FOX (1).
Special Sale of Tested Brood Mares.
■ For the first time in this part of the world
a special catalogue of 100 brood mares, every
one of which will have been tested for preg-
nancy, will be submitted to auction. A certificate
showing the result of the test, whether positive
or negative, will accompany each mare. These
tests for pregnancy are carried out under the
very latest methods and offer almost a hundred
per cent, warranty. The catalogue is a very
attractive one, the mares being from the best
blood lines and the foals at foot are represen-
tative of all the leading sires.
Apply for the Special Catalogue.
Catalogues are obtainable from
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO. (AUST.J
PTY., LTD., 34 QUEEN STREET, MEL-
BOURNE, who will also advise clients in-
tending to be present at the sales regard-
ing transport, payment of yearlings, in-
surance, etc.
BUYING COMMISSIONS will be executed
on behalf of absentee racing men and
breeders and every attention will be given
to the fulfilment of such orders. All such
purchases will be accompanied by a prior
Veterinary Certificate of Soundness, but
the buyer accepts all risks from the fall
of the hammer. If required, the Auction-
eers are prepared to make arrangements
to have yearlings bought at the sales
broken in and further developed in New
Zealand before shipment.
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.,
Head Office, Customhouse Quay, Welling-
ton, and at Melbourne (Aust.) and
Branches throughout N.Z.
PYNE, GOULD, GUINNESS, LTD.,
Head Office, Cashel Street, Christchurch,
and Branches throughout Canterbury,
down, and the Welshmen were leading
well till late in the game. Touring
sides, if players don’t become stale,
usually have the edge in condition. The
real test will be the match against Wales.
Reports that Dr. Phil Hardcastle is “on
his way home” are news to the Rugby
Union and the Hardcastle family. Hard-
castle is to complete the tour of Great
Britain and will go to France, but appar-
ently will give America and Canada a
miss and return before the team.
After Pickworth had beaten Von Nida,
and Cremin had outed Bolger, P. and
C. met in the Australian pro. champion-
ship at Royal Melbourne. Often playing
in heavy rain, they made it a battle to the
35th, where Pickworth prevailed, two and
one. Von Nida promptly announced his
decision to go to America.
* * * *
The Victorian Lawn Tennis people
didn’t have much better luck than the
N.S.W. body with weather for their State
championships. Saturday, the most im-
portant day from the financial viewpoint,
with the singles final Quist v. Sidwell to
be played, was a washout. Americans
Brink and Moylan were in action ; Brink
playing up to his Sydney form until
beaten* by Sidwell, and Moylan again
showing nothing like his reputed ability.
Quist and Geoff Brown won the doubles
final from the strong combination
of Sidwell and Long. In the ladies’ events
Mrs. Bolton once more proved she is
right out on her own in Australia and one
of the best in the world.
* * *
Army sprinter Clarrie Hayes must be
under a severe psychological strain try-
ing to live up to the press ballyhoo that
preceded his arrival from Japan! On
Saturday he was disqualified from his
100yds. inter-club event in Sydney after
twice beating the gim, and later was
beaten by Varsity runner Charlie Camp-
bell in an invitation 100yds. race; the
track was deadly slow, Campbell taking
10.4 sec. Meanwhile Treloar was winning
the Queensland 100yds. title in Brisbane.
With the track there also heavy Treloar
beat Graham McLachlan by in
9.9 sec.
* * * *
Another good bit of matchmaking, pit-
ting Archie Kemp (9.5 U against Roy
Treasure (9.7), gave a good house a good
fight at Melbourne Stadium. Kemp put
in a strong finish, partly overhauling
Treasure’s early lead for a draw, but
Treasure would have won if he’d kept his
rabbiting for the Cowra hills,
* * * *
Billy Murphy (9.8) should have beaten
Frank Terrence (9.6) at Leichhardt, but
what he had in better boxing the Murph
lacked in aggression. Terrence fairly out-
fought him, putting him down for “eight”
with a hearty right in round three and
rattling him with more good punches
later, to take it so well on points that the
Leichhardtians clean forgot to hoot.
* * * *
“S.G.”: It is ridiculous to dismiss Joe Louis
as a back-number if he has looked after him-
self; and all accounts agree that he has. At
the same age, 33, Gus Lesnevich is fighting
better than ever before; indeed, though only
a 12-stoner, Gus has fought himself into the
position of being a certain contender for
heavyweight supremacy before he has to quit
the business. But then Gus takes every match
he can get. The main trouble with Louis is
that he has had far too few fights for a big
man who naturally tends to run to flesh and
get thick in the wind. Bob .Fitzsimmons won
the heavyweight championship at 35, knocked
out Tom Sharkey and Ruhlin in the same
month at 38, went eight gruelling rounds with
Jeffries at 40 and whipped George Gardiner
for the light-heavyweight title at 41, losing it
to Jack O’Brien in 13 rounds at 43. And
when he was 47 we in Sydney saw him give
Bill Lang a boxing lesson till the fierce summer
heat more than Bill’s punching wore him out.
* * * *
Jack Read returns to the Lily whites:
All six amateur boxers selected to represent
Australia at the Olympic Games have shown
fine form. In fact, some good judges say
flyweight R. Gower (Tas.) and bantamweight
J. Garruthers (N.S.W.) will win the Games
championships in their division. If so, they’ll
be the first of their kind; no amateur from
these parts has yet come out on top overseas.
Three to try their talent were Reg L.
(“Snowy”) Baker (N.S.W.), Charlie Purdy
(N.Z.) and “Rusty” Cook (Q.). “Snowy” was
beaten in London over 40 years ago by cricketer-
boxer J. W. H. T. Douglas; Purdy did not go
far in the 1924 Paris Olympic Games; Cook
was beate,n at the British Empire Games.
Purdy turned professional on returning to
Australia, and won the Commonwealth welter
title from Jack Carroll at Sydney Stadium in 1928.
Baker and also Duncan Parbury (Australasian
lightweight champion in 1903, 1904 and 1906)
remained amateurs till their ring careers ended,
though both were considered better than most
professionals. #
Other Australian* amateur champions who
became outstanding stars in the professional
field were Dave Smith, Arthur Cripps, Reg
Midwood, George Dawson, Frank Fitzjohn,
Peter Klipg, Tim Murphy, Sid Godfrey, Am-
brose Palmer [and, a notable omission from
Jack Read’s list —Jack Read].
Cripps won the middleweight championship,
while Dawson and Godfrey became lightweight
title-holders [so did Jack], Palmer captured
three championships—middle, light-heavy and
heavyweight—and retired unbeaten for the two
heavier titles.
Dave Smith twice won the Commonwealth
heavyweight championship, and twice retired
unbeaten for that honor. Bill Lang, Bill
Squires and every bigger man he met went
down before Smith’s speedy punching, but
Dave forgot to duck Eddie McGoorty’s left
hook when they met 35 years ago, and Mc-
Goorty knocked him before they’d been fighting
a full minute.


a-. ■
■; ■:■■:■■/.■■■■■
■ n
#v
IN THE "OUTBACK
Life ‘outback’ is happy and free—and even the one great drawback of
lack of sanitation can now be overcome by installing a Hygeia Dis-
solvenator.
This completely self-contained sanitary system requires NO WATER
Sewage materiel is chemically transformed into a sterile
solution that runs away into the soil.
Dangerous germs unwholesome
odours flies emptying are
all banished. Thousands are in use
throughout Australia. Write for free
illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA
DISSOLYENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
■Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvcnator Dist. Co. • (N.S.W.). 82 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Woolworth’s Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Victorian Producers’ 1 Co-op. Co., Ltd., SVB Little Flinders Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
On Farm or Stat/on /r's...
mm i
r*i
LiLM
V
.1 I
r
* . , ;>' 4W-.
'/ • •
lis
•wwwwx^vav
1 l!J
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
TABLE MODEL 847
Four Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
£3B/17/-
or low deposit and
easy mthly. payments
Now is the time to buy your new
“His Master’s Voice” Radio, and
increase the enjoyment of your
leisure hours. After you listen
to this new “His Master’s Voice”
vibrator model, you’ll be dis-
contented with your old-time battery set, which
cannot do justice to to-day’s broadcasting tech-
nique. Let “His Master’s Voice*’ Radio add to the
pleasure and comfort of your life on the farm.
Ask your nearest H.M.V. Retailer to demonstrate this
new receiver.
SHE GRAMOPHONE COT. LTD. ( Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W,
" Rf 3/47
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Minerva and Tivoli Theatres
“There’s no business like show busi-
ness!” runs an Irving Berlin ditty out of
the current musical comedy “Annie Get
Your. Gun.” It is doubtful, however,
whether show business l\as ever seen such
a spectacle of share business as is revealed
when one steps behind the financial
scenes of the David N. Martin enter-
prises running the Minerva Theatre in
Sydney and the Tivoli Theatres in* Sydney
and Melbourne.
To appreciate show-business finance in
its most agile form an introduction may
be gained through the last two annual
reports of Minerva Centre, Ltd. At first
it is all bewildering—criss-cross share-
holdings within seven companies (three
with names derived from eastern suburbs
of Sydney), directors’ names recurring In
different companies, share-transfers galore
within the group, inter-company lease
transactions. The financier’s hand has
been moving in and out like a fiddler’s
elbow, swapping shares between the
companies, liquidating one, arranging a
transfer here, a new issue there, the sale
of a property somewhere else. Even
when the tangle is sorted out as to who
owns what, the question of “why?” may
still be tantalising.
David Nathaniel Martin it was who
conceived., the idea of the Minerva
Theatre, now putting on stage shows in
Orwell-street, near King’s Cross, Sydney,
but subject to a contract of sale with
picture people. He came east from
Perth, W.A.: from his youth he was in-
terested in writing, publicity, “show busi-
ness.” In Sydney he worked with Para-
mount and Universal Pictures and ran the
Liberty picture-theatre successfully for
three and a half years ; then, late in 1937,
he promoted Minerva Centre, Ltd., which
proposed to build the Minerva and Para-
dise (larger) theatres at King’s Cross. Mr.
Martin, protesting that he was a show-
man, not a financier, took 3500 £1
ordinary shares as his promoter’s cut,
accepted a five-year contract as managing
director, and arranged for a Sydney
’Change firm to underwrite the remaining
£50,000 of ord. capital, a large portion
of which was as hard to move as cold
glue in sharemafket conditions then pre-
vailing.
The Minerva Theatre was eventually
completed at a cost considerably higher
than estimated. Many people associated
with its completion were strained finan-
cially ; there were hard feelings, fractured
friendships. 111-luck dogged the venture.
Fortunately for the co.’s finances
at this stage it was able to dispose of the
Paradise site to the City Council as a
park, thus helping to reduce its debt.
The Minerva opened in May, 1939,
after constructional difficulties, with the
paint still wet on its walls. “Idiot’s De-
light” was the first play, an omen of the
war that was soon to break (and, for the
time being, anyway, add to showmen’s
difficulties). Losses were sho\yn, the
shares slumped, there were “differences”
and David Martin left the board. But
not dong afterwards he came back
into the scene as lessee of the theatre,
and his repertory company put a series
of plays before the Minerva footlights
that apparently were a good deal more
profitable than those shown by Minerva
as producer. From its opening date a
series of theatrical celebrities flitted across
the Minerva stage—Lina Basquette (well-
known in Hollywood), Henry Mollisqn
and Joy Howarth. Noel Coward took a
bow there during the war.
Minerva Centre itself incurred losses until
1943; by June, 1942, the deficit had grown
to £16,245, and a year later there was a debt
of £29,747, while capital stood at £57,835 in
53,500 ords. and 4340 prefs. J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., had a substantial but temporary interest
in the Minerva; The Firm sold its shares in
1943.
Then Pan-Australasian Theatres (Whitehall
Productions), controlled .by Kathleen Robinson,
acquired a lease of the theatre. American
troops in Sydney helped to bump-up takings,
and Minerva, as landlord, benefited slightly—a
first profit of £9 was shown for the year 1942-43.
David Martin seemed to have “show busi-
ness” to attend to elsewhere after Whitehall
took over the theatre. But in the 1942-43 term
he returned to the board, and. things began to
happen. With Martin now proclaimed
“financial consultant,” Minerva bought, out
of the proceeds of a lease-premium, shares
in Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., which owned
(at that time) the majority of shares in Tivoli
Circuit Pty'., operating the Tivoli Theatres in
Sydney and Melbourne. At this stage the
Minerva was leased to Tivoli Circuit for six
years, subject to a sub-lease by Pan-Australasian
Theatres until June 24, 1947.
The following year Minerva (Martin now man-
aging director) added to its holding of Tivoli
Celebrity shares, and it acquired scrip valued
at £3349 in Potts Point Development Pty.
Profits, including income from investments,
were now coming along, and in 1946 divs.
started to flow. In the 1945-46 term Minerva
issued 10,000 new £1 ords. (to whom not
specified) and at the same time acquired a
£10,024 (book-value) interest in Tivoli Circuit
(6666 fully-paid £1 shares), added to its holding
(making it 82,155 shilling shares) in Tivoli
Celebrity Vaudeville and £2500 to its Potts
Point Development holding (then £5849 in
5841 shares). %
The recovery in Minerva earnings since 1942
is shown by this table:
To Re-
June, Profit, f— 1 Dividends > serves. Deficit.
£ Pref. Ord. Total. £ £
1943.. 9 Nil 9 19,417
1944.. Nil 3520 15,897
Tax-free income from investments,
£3857 .. • . . . . . . 12,040
Additional taxes, £431 .. .. 12,471
1945.. 2194 ■ Nil 2194 10,277
, Tax-free income from investments,
£2083 8,194
1946.. 6049 56 p.c.* 5 p.c. = 5551 498 7,696
Reserves.
Tax-free income from investments,
£12,374 4,678
1947.. 6537 7 p.c. 10 p.c. = 8584 2,631
* Includes arrears.
Towards the end of 1946 shareholders were
called together to agree to the sale of the
Minerva theatre for £87,000 cash, out of which
£9OOO is to be paid to Tivoli Circuit for the
surrender of its lease expiring on June 24, 1950.
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was the buyer. The deal
is expected to be completed shortly. •
Minerva’s balance-sheet figures over the past
three years have changed as follows':
1945. 1946. 1947.
Ord. capital .. .. £53,500 £63,500 £82,805
Pref. capital .. ~ 4,335 4,335 4,338
Liabilities .. .. 27,015 25,799 28,066
Deferred income .. 9,019 4,464
■ Theatre, etc. .. 62,141 59,756 57,371
Shares—
Tivoli Celebrity .. 18,116 20,382 20,382
Tivoli Circuit .. 10,024 18,299
Potts Point .. .. 3,349 5,849 14,206
Deposits .. .. . ■ — 15,053
Cash, etc *6B 324 1,495
In the past year Minerva was sold 7075 £1
shares in Tivoli Circuit at 235. 4d. a share, the
vendors being Theatre Holdings (1000) and
Potts Point (6075). It appears to have acquired
8340 additional shares in Potts Point also at par.
In the term to June 30 last, profits
(£6537), plus income from investments
(£12,374), were of satisfactory proportions,
especially as they enabled half the 10
p.c. ord. div. to pass tax-free to share-
holders. But the accounts are singularly
uninformative as to the past or current
progress of the investments, and there is
no explanation as to whether the “de-
posits” (£15,053) at call, a new item, are
with members of the Martin group, or
whether these are earning more interest
than Minerva’s overdraft (£27,648) is
costing. The net proceeds from the sale
of the theatre should leave a surplus of
about £20,000 on book values.
Flack and Flack, the original auditors,
have recently resigned. Two of the
original directors, Messrs. Carpenter and
Dickson, also resigned this year. David
N. Martin remains managing director,
and he is a director of each of the other
cos. in the interlinked chain. Whitehall
Productions is still in control of the
Minerva stage ; but what Minerva Centre,
Ltd., proposes to do with the money
from M.-G.-M. when that deal is com-
pleted isn’t disclosed.
Following a string of share transactions
this year, some of which were approved
by Minerva shareholders at the recent
annual meeting, the position resolved it-
self into one in which David Martin, be-
ginning with a vest-pocket-sized concern
called Bellevue Development Co. Pty.,
Lt.d., controlled more than half the capi-
tal in each of a series of interlocking cos.
that led to Tivoli Circuit Pty., Ltd., and
to Minerva Centre, Ltd. The company-
chain of predominant ownership was
complete to the Tivoli; in the case of
the Minerva the holdings of Martin and
Martirj-controlled cos. were slightly short
of half the capital, but relatives of Mr.
Martin and people associated with him
in the Bellevue and Elizabeth Bay cos.
held considerable parcels of scrip.
Accepting the figures in the last report
of Minerva Centre, the position was then
one in which David*N. Martin held 2500
out of 4900 fully-paid £1 ords. and 5000
out of 10,000 paid to Bs. in the midget
Bellevue Development Pty.—more than
half the capital.
Next, Bellevue Development (with
12,582 shares) and Martin (with 3375
shares) owned more than half the 29,001
£1 ords. m Elizabeth Bay Estates Pty.,
Ltd.
Elizabeth Bay Estates owned 14,182
out of 23,367 £T ords. in Potts Point En-
velopment, and Elizabeth Bay Estates
(with 13,500), Martin (with 1000) and
Bellevue Development (5000) controlled
19,500 out of the 20,000 ords. issued by
Theatre Holdings Pty., Ltd.
Potts Point Development, with a hold-
ing of 242,979 shilling shares, owned
more than half the 362,500 shilling
shares issued by Tivoli Celebrity Vaude-
ville.
Elizabeth Bay Estates (with 13,750
shares) and Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
(27,500 shares) between them owned more
than half the 55,000 £1 shares issued'by
Tivoli Circuit Pty., Ltd., the co. running
the Tivoli theatres in Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
Bellevue Development (with 9925 £1
ords.), Elizabeth Bay Estates (25,680
ords.) and David N. Martin (3140 ords.)
on December 11 this year held 38,745
ords. out of Minerva’s issue of 82,805
ords., while lisa H. Martin owned 1200
ords. and 1080 prefs., F. I. Martin 2700
ords. and H. C. Mclntyre (a director of
Elizabeth Bay Estates) 2005 ords.
A year ago Theatre Holdings was the
main channel to Potts Point Develop-
ment and the Tivoli cos. In 1947 Eliza-
beth Bay Estates alone owned more than
half the shares in the Potts Point co.,
while Potts Point owned over half Tivoli
Celebrity Vaudeville shares. In its turn
Celebrity Vaudeville (which last year
owned 41,250 out of 55,000 shares) this
year had 27,500 shares in Tivoli Circuit,
having passed 13,750 to Elizabeth Bay
Estates at 235. 4d. a share, the majority
holding being thus split, but still retained
within the Martin group.
In 1946 14,279 5 p.c. prefs. in Theatre
Holdings were accepted by Minerva
Centre in exchange for a similar number
of its own ords., some ’of these ords.
going' to Elizabeth Bay Estates. Com-
pared with a year ago Elizabeth Bay
Estates’ holding of Minerva shares
(25,680) has risen by 11,080.
Theatre Holdings, according to the
former secretary of the co., has since
gone into voluntary liquidation. Through
the same source it was learned that Eliza-
beth Bay Estates has increased its capi-
tal by about £16,000 : Tommy Trinder,
who had a long season with the Tivoli,
has been allotted 4500 shares and
Frank Tait 2250, but Bellevue De-
velopment’s holding has increased to
£36,498 in a total issue of 45,000 shares.
Elizabeth Bay’s holding in Potts Point
Development (issue now £35,000) has
risen to 20,816 shares, and Minerva
Centre owns 14,181. The predominant
Martin interest thus remained.
In trying to read the riddle of this
King’s Cross finance it will be noted that,
though dividends received from past earn-
ings have been high, no details of the
earnings of the Tivoli cos. are supplied
in the balance-sheet of Minerva Centre,
which is entitled to accounts from each
proprietary. And no explicit reasons are
given in the Minerva reports for the rest-
less share activity that seems to go on
and on. It is hard indeed to separate
show business from share business in the
David Martin ramifications. “ Tis all a
checker-board,” as Omar Khayyam
might have remarked.


TORY OF THE OLYMPIC GAMES! |
:
I
■s«£
s*-
/S2S
TENACITY . . .
In the qualifying
round of the hop,
step and jump at
Paris in 1924, A. W.
(“Nick”) Winter,
Australia, so badly
bruised his heels
when he fouled at
his s'econd attempt,
that his best efforts
seemed doomed to
failure. Despite this
handicap, in the last
jump of the final
series, he covered
50 ft. 11-3/16 ins. to
win the Olympic
title and create a
new world record.
YOU MUST HAVE %naci&f TO BE
AH OLYMPIC GAMES CHAMPION!
The Tenacity to stand up to the wear
and tear of modern high speed automotive
transport is built into Olympic Tyres.
Olympic
TYRES
700% AUSTRALIAN
• . . CHAMPIONS
OF THE RO ADI
A product of the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. Ltd.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability)
Summary of President’s Speech
At the Ordinary General Meeting of the Bank of New South Wales, held at Head
Office, Sydney, on Friday, November 28, 1947, the President of the Bank, the Hon.
Sir Frederick H. Tout, reviewed the accounts and surveyed general economic conditions.
The following is a summary of Ms main
remarks.
The total of the balance sheet Increased
£20,492,000 to a new record of £265,516,000,
the main increase being In deposits, which
were £232,875,000 on September 30. On the
assets side, liquid assets represent 60% of
the total. Loans and advances rose £19,825,000
to a total of £94,354,000 in meeting post-war
demands of various sections of thte commun-
ity in accordance with # the policy laid down
by the central bank. There still remains a
large potential demand for bank accommoda-
tion for both urban and rural industries.
Wisely controlled, a further expansion of
advances as ah incentive and means to in-
creased productivity need not contribute to
inflation.
Net profit increased £48,145 to a total of
£617,530.
Current accounts Bank increased
by no less than 60,000 during thfe past two
years. This marked growth is evidence that
the public retains its high opinion of the
Bank and the efliciency of its services.
Oversea, trade
The value cff Australian exports reached
a record amount in 1946-47, but in quantity
they were probably little, if at all, greater
than before the war.
Though still only a small proportion of
exports, the growth in exports of manufac-
tured goods gives promise that in certain
lines we can compete in quality and price
with older industrial countries.
Imports also reached a new record value,
but the actual volume of imported goods
was possibly 10 to 15% lower than before the
war. Because of the dollar shortage and
Britain’s, economic difficulties to live within
our export income is the least that Australia
can do.
The need for greater production
The Australian cost structure is rising
from internal causes as well as through the
influence of high import prices. This is not
altogether surprising at a time of full employ-
ment and scarcity-of resources. 'Two im-
portant factors have entered the picture in
the past year. Both the interim increase in
the, basic wage and the 40-hour week are
adding very materially to the wage costs of
industry with no immediate corresponding
Benefit to production.
The real problem for Australia is still the
need for greater productivity, with the em-
phasis on output per man-ho*ur. This situa-
tion warrants a policy of incentives, by
methods of wage payments as well as by
tax reductions.
Unfortunately, price control has come to
mean an effective control of profits within
individual companies, and its general effect
has been to offer little encouragement to
higher production or lower production costs.
Businessmen cannot avoid looking with
alarm at the Government’s apparent readi-
ness to fetter the economy with permanent
conrol over prices. It is possible that hopes
of an early return to a freely operating price
mechanism would encourage acceleration of
output and secure honest and efficient
marketing.
Banking
During the year trading bank deposits
rose only 2.7% to £639m. This comparatively
small increase seems to mark the end of a
phase of monetary expansion arising from
the war, a phase in which bank deposits
have doubled.
Advances increased 30% in the year to a
total of £3l6m. They are now slightly higher
than before the war, but in terms of pur-
chasing power they are much lower than
their 1939 level. The growth in bank lend-
ing in the past two years has taken place
mainly at the expense of a reduction in the
banks’ holdings of securities and treasury
bills.
Nationalization
Trading bank policy is controlled by the
central bank under the 1945 legislation,
which gave the Government more than
enough power to support and control Aus-
tralian development. No furthef control was
necessary for economic reasons, and national*;
zation will actually add to the uncertainty
factors in the economy. ' ;
Past and present experience has indicated;
that the errors of free enterprise, which are
visited usually only on the heads of a few
people, are merely replaced by public errors
from which the whole economy suffers.
Hence the loss of freedom which the forma-
tion of public monopoly and its concomitant
regulations entail, so far from being com-
pensated by added economic security, is
actually accompanied by lower standards of
living, periodical shortages, the survival of
black markets, and the gradual weakening
of standards of human honesty and integrity.
Chifley Fiddles, Incentive Dies
All the major economic problems
afflicting this country today have been
forecast in these pages since 1942. The
inflation, the loss of buying-power, the
production depression, the futility of arti-
ficial controls, the unwieldy Budget, the
socialistic intent, the Government waste
of “hard” currency and the ignoring of
trade problems, the industrial demoralisa-
tion and the loss of incentive, by wage-
payer and wage-earner alike, were all
foreseen as inevitable results of the
“Labor” programme.
The nationalisation of banking has
been pronounced to be the offspring of
a socialistic father and a mother that was
bom in the depression of the 19305. At
the moment Mr. Chifley professes most
concern for the maternal side of its an-
cestry, apparently hoping that the eco-
nomic failure of a policy based on social-
ism and an all-powerful trade-union
monopoly can be retrieved by the intro-
duction of nationalised banking, the con-
trol of money being regarded as the
remedy for all the ills to which the eco-
nomic flesh is heir.
Mr. Chifley has great need to be con-
cerned. He has avoided at all times the
question of adequate production per man
per hour, the gravest problem with which
this country is faced. It is a problem
that was first given its rightful emphasis
in The Bulletin ; then the economic
adviser to the Labor party in New Zea-
land made a speech about it which pos-
sessed so much commonsense that trade-
union circles were startled; then the
Premier of Tasmania took up the “more-
production” cry and was censured by
trade-union interests in this country for
doing so,
Mr, Chifley, Prime Minister of the
greatest English-speaking country in the
Southern Hemisphere, was just about
dead-last to make any allusions to the
necessity for a real increase in produc-
tivity by trade-unionists, and he did so
merely as a matter of course in a Budget
speech. The most emphatic official call
for greater production in Australia
has come from the governor of
the Commonwealth Bank, who has made
it clear that inflation can only be
countered by increased output if some
of the increase is provided without the
payment of any more money for it.
Mr. Chifley has been often represented
asi the strong, silent man of Australian
politics. He is silent enough when there
is any trouble about, and his stubborn-
ness often seems regardless of the
consequences to Australia. He is en-
deavoring to skate over our present eco-
nomic and industrial difficulties by
nationalising the banks and continuing
“regulations” till doomsday.
Commander L. Robinson, president of
the Associated Chambers of Manufac-
tures of Australia, has spoken out against
the degeneration in our social and
economic conditions:
The housing situation is almost hopeless
because of the existing labor shortage, the lack
of raw materials, and the high costs of pro-
duction. The prospective homebuilder today
compared with 1939 has to face the facts that,
in building, his 20s. 1939 value would require
375. 6d. in 1947, and that £2OO-worth of pre-
war furniture would take all of £350. Under
these conditions few workers today can aspire
to' own their own homes, and this is distinctly
wrong, because Australia needs the man who
possesses a roof-tree, who really has his roots
in the country of either his birth or adoption,
and who feels that he is part and parcel ot
that country, with a personal stake in its fate
and destiny, and a share of the responsibility ot
seeing that that destiny is the highest which
can possibly be achieved.
We live here today under a Government
following an ideology regarding social benefits,
nationalised industries and services and so
forth which demands a disproportionate con-
tribution from the citizen; we face the grave
danger of breeding a race of irresponsible men-
dicants Those people who are constantly left
with insufficient money to build their own sturdy
independence are forced into acceptance ot
a very doubtful philosophy; they know that
thrift under the present regime, while not per-
mitting them to prepare adequately for an
independent old age, will probably have the
effect of rendering them ineligible for the Gov-
ernment pension to which they have been com-
pelled to contribute throughout their earning
years. The results of such reasoning are highly
apparent —and very dangerous to the health of
any nation.
It is obvious that few men will exert them-
selves more than they are compelled to do
unless they are going to receive material profit
from their added exertion. It is also obvious
that at the present time the majority of workers
could produce more without harm—indeed with
added benefit—to themselves. Unfortunately
some union leaders obstinately have set their
faces against any scheme or plan which abro-
gates the iron-bound principle of fixed wages
for everybody, irrespective of his or her stand-
ard of efficiency, and this is the greatest
stumbling-block to increased production and
industrial peace today.
At the Industrial Peace Conference convened
by the Prime Minister in August, 1947, the
question of incentive payments was raised as
a fair and logical means of increasing pro-
duction with equal benefit to the worker, the
employer and the community, and the em-
ployees’ representatives promised that it would
be examined by the A.C.T.U. As you know,
that promise was afterwards repudiated by the
Communistic element in the Trades Hall, and so
far no progress has been made in that direction.
This hostility to any incentive-payment system
is difficult to understand in face of three
indisputable facts: —
(1) The present industrial laws of the Corn-
wealth are sufficient to safeguard all
workers from fear of exploitation by
even those employers whose outlook may
not have broadened since the 1870’s;
(2) Incentive-payment systems have been in
operation—and in successful operation
in some industries for the last 30 years;
(3) It is the only possible means whereby
workers can obtain increased earnings
without these increases being nullified by
corresponding increases in the prices ot
commodities and therefore in the cost
of living.
Until there is acceptance of the axiom that
no economy can stand indefinitely against the
constant drain of rising wages without in-
creased output, Australia’s position is hopeless
and the future dark indeed.
From January 1, 1948, there will be an
even bigger strain upon the national resources.
You cannot make a gift of four unproductive
hours’ leisure to every man and woman in
Australia and expect that gift fo be “free.”
Unless some means be found to increase the
productivity during the remaining working
hours one of three things is inevitable: (i) a
huge overtime bill will be incurred; (ii) more
persons will have to be employed to ensure
the same output (and the existing labor short-
age renders this extremely difficult); or (iii) re-
duced output will result in scarcity of supplies.
Whichever course is adopted means higher costs
and prices, and the third surely leads to black-
In its judgment the Court stated that “it
has been the historic role of employers to
oppose the workers’ claim for increased leisure,”
and “history has invariably proved such fore-
bodings of employers to be unfounded.” On
October 30, 1946, ten months before judgment
was delivered, the following public declaration
was made: “The Court feels that the time is
opportune for an announcement that the four
Judges now sitting declare their approval of the
principle of a 40-hour week”; thereafter the
case admittedly was considered in (he light of
this declaration.
Employers considered it their bounden duty
to place before the Court every evidence at
their command relative to the possible effects
of a 40-hour week. It is true that in the past,
whenever there has been a project before the
Court which would result in increasing costs
of production, and therefore in the cost of
living, employers have fulfilled that same duty.
The Court has expressed the opinion that our
forebodings have proved frequently to be un-
founded; however that may be, it is an in-
controvertible fact that the Australian pound,
which 25 to 35 years ago was worth to its
fortunate owner 205., today represents only
about Bs. comparative purchasing-power. The
worker on the basic wage of £2 Bs. in 1914
could purchase more than he can today with
his £5 Bs. Ido not think the employers’ fore-
bodings have been altogether unfounded in the
past—and, with production the greatest problem
facing the nation today, the onus is now on
the unions to prove that they are* unfounded
in the present instance.
Not even an echo has been heard from
Prime Minister Chifley. He continues to
fiddle with nationalisation of banking and
perpetuation of controls rather than try
to deal with the real dangers crowding in
upon the country.


ABORIGINALITIES
“0.D.8.”: Old Tim came along
limping badly, and I asked him what
was the trouble. “Oh, it’s me eyes—l
s’pose I’ll have to get meself a pair o’
specs.” “But what’s that to do with
your bad leg?” I asked. “Well,” he re-
plied, “I had a nasty fall. Y’ see, we’ve
been carting hay. I was pitching, made
a lunge at a stock, hooked the pitchfork
into my boot and chucked meself up.
Trouble was I only went halfway to the
load! ”
* * * *
“Yarrabah”: During October G.
Bates, of the Queensland Sugar Bureau,
led a party in two army trucks up Cape
York Peninsula. His father in Mudgee
(N.S.W.) sent a telegram addressed “Mit-
chell River Radio” with a cheerio mes-
sage to his friends the abos up that way.
The telegram went by landline to Clon-
curry, and thence by radio to the Mit-
chell, but arrived two days after the
party had left, so the message went off
the beam on to the pedal-wireless and
was sent 50 miles east to Koolatah with
instructions to pass it on. Party not
being there, Koolatah gave it to Dunbar,
further south ; but still the addressees were
out of touch. Pedal-wireless all over the
place got busy, and the expedition was
reported to have gone to earth at Rut-
land Plains station. But at Rutland the
manager had declared a holiday in honor
of the visitors, and all hands had gone to
the mouth of the Nassau River to shoot
wild pigs and crocodiles. The sister of the
ATM. Hospital at Dunbar sat at the
pedal set till they returned, and then tick-
tacked the message 50 miles westward
again. That’s how telegrams are delivered
in the North. Bates is a botanist and
entomologist, and was an Intelligence ser-
geant during the war, when he made his
first trip to the Peninsula. The bag at
Nassau River? Twenty-seven pigs and
three crocs.
* * * *
“The Lout”: We were spinebashing
in the tent one wet afternoon in an M-T.
camp just out of Cairns (N.Q.) and
watching half a dozen cane toads clean-
ing up an ant-bed. Usually they stayed
under the floorboards till dark, but a
heavy shower of rain had disturbed the
ants and the toads were flicking them up
faster than the eye could follow. One
big bloke finished his meal and hopped
toward the tent-pole as I dragged the last
puff out of a “tailor-made,” The flicked
half-inch of red-hot butt rolled right
under his nose, and he had it down be-
fore we could blink. Sitting back on to
his tail, he gave a couple of gentle hic-
coughs, gazed around for a bit and went
back to join his cronies on the ant-heap.
At bushfire prevention cane toads have
distinct possibilities.
H= * * *
“Zake”: The aerial root system is the
natural manner of growth of the para-
sitical Moreton Bay fig (B, 10/12/’47). I
have never heard of one germinating on
the ground. Usually the seed is dropped
by birds into the fork or cavity of a
living tree. There it “strikes” when the
conditions are right and soon small aerial
roots start to cascade. When they reach
the ground they “strike,” grow quickly
and send out laterals until the unwilling-
host tree is completely surrounded with a
thick tangle of rapidly-swelling roots, and
the process of strangulation is by then
well advanced. Eventually the enormous
cables link up, forming a solid trunk.
One on the Mary River (Q.) had a base
taped at 226 feet in circumference. A
Moreton Bay fig never seems to use
another of the same species as a host.
But they seem to thrive on either dead or
live trees of any other type.
♦ * * . *
“Martemus”; Mention of teaching
soldiers how to find food and water in
an emergency (B. 22/10/’47) leads me
to speculate whether our old cobber
“Bogaduck” is the same genial soul who
unwittingly provided some of the Ninth
Divvy with its final feed at Narellan
camp just before they embarked for New
Guinea. After a three-mile march from
their own camp the troops were ushered
into the Y.M. hut at Narellan and con-
fronted with what looked like a most
attractive Royal Show exhibit. A trestle
table was laden with roots, bulbs', fruits
and lots of unlikely-looking edibles,
flanked by rows of jars containing cray-
fish, prawns and»other sea and fresh-
water Crustacea. “It may not look appe-
"I'm afraid he's sprained his ankle rather badly."
tising, but there is nothing on, that table
you can’t eat or drink! ” dramatically de-
clared the lecturer. At the end of the
show he was escorted to the officers’
mess fof a cup of coffee. Returning 10
minutes later to pack up his exhibit, he
was aghast to find that the troops had
not only devoured everything on the table
but had washed it down with the potent
spirit in which the specimens had
been bottled. It had taken him more
than a year and thousands of miles of
travel to get the exhibit together, and
m.y bland suggestion that its sudden de-
molition was a magnificent tribute to his
powers as a lecturer didn’t seem to
mollify him a bit.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: A reported
find by one J. Bourke, dt Deloraine, of
two 4in.-long baby rabbits in the inside
of a 51b. rainbow trout at Great Lakes
(Tas.) reveals nothing extraordinary in
the way of fish diets. During a mouse
plague on the mid-Murray in 1931-32
every cod you hooked had mice in its
belly, and the following year, when a
rabbit plague came, river fishermen, find-
ing whole bunnies inside the larger cod,
began using the rodents as set-line baits
instead of the customary parrot carcasses
and whole carp. At Tammit then we
free-fed the river-fish on “kittens,”
butchered nightly around the homestead,
and the only bright spot about that rabbit
visitation was that we never failed to
catch fish for breakfast with quarter-
grown cottontails baited on springers.
* * ♦ *
“Salmon Gums”: Of all the wild-life
in the Australian bush I nominate the
wedge-tailed eagle as the hardest to
account for in any great numbers.
Camped on a lonely stretch of an out-
back Westralian railway I once sought
to augment my wages and earn the grati-
tude of the neighboring farmers with a
brand-new .32. I was a fair shot, the big
birds were plentiful, and at five-bob a
head the proposition seemed to offer pos-
sibilities. Since then Fve seen a Wog kid
with his arm in one sling and a sling in
the other make more money catching
starlings in Syria. After the first few
mornings I seldom got within range of
them. Each morning one or more would
circle high over the area until I was
located, and once tabbed I was never lost
sight of all day. By shifting camp each
night after dusk and abandoning my early-
morning fire, and consequently the billy
of tea, I occasionally got in one shot, but
that was always the last shot of the day.
When a cocky told me that I was doing
a good job keeping the big fellows occu-
pied I cashed in on the half-dozen scalps
I’d collected and returned to the comfort
of a hot breakfast.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Sausage, the half-grown
greyhound pup, all feet, tongue and
amiability, was blundering joyously
around our clearing job, enthusiastically
chasing imaginary hares and things, when
he saw something move in a heap of dry
bark and sticks. With an excited
“whoof!” he pounced, then fell over
backwards and raced round in circles,
trying to scrape his bottom-lip with his
paws, rubbing his mouth against stumps
and along the ground. But the little wood-
mouse had a firm grip on that bottom-lip,
and it hung on, probably as alarmed as
was Sausage. We tried to catch the pup,
but he seemed to think we’d had some-
thing to do with it, since we could hardly
stand for laughing, and he tore frantically
about, falling over, shaking his head,
making passes at himself with his fore-
paws. The mouse hung on. Suddenly
Sausage headed for the dam, plunged in
and made for the deep water. The mouse
had to let go or drown. It made a land-
ing and scurried dazedly for cover, what
time Sausage rushed out, shook himself
vigorously, stood opening and closing his
mouth for a minute to make sure he was
free, then cantered back to us, obviously
and ridiculously proud of having managed
the crisis' without human help.
“Bridle-track”: “Nearly beat, I was,
when he done it, mate,” said the wool-
presser as he leaned on the bar rail. “I’d
been feedin’ him for days, but—talk about
gratitude!—l’d never have guessed he
had it in him. Y’ see, the shearers had
cut out an’ I was rushing me last bale
of pieces through the old Koerstz. The
rope ran from the side box up through
a pulley, along a rafter, through another
block, then down to the creaky windlass.
The box was nearly over an’ I was grunt-
ing for the last heave when the weight
suddenly lifted. X looks up, thinking the
rope had broke; but, so help me, there
was the little feller digging his toes into
the rafter an’ hauling on the rope. The
box crashed into place and he sat and
watched me finish the bale from his nest
on the second block. After that, no
bloke’s going to knock down any nests o’
theirs while Vm about. Anyhow, here’s
to that Willie Wagtail, mate!”
* « * * *
“Rider Mac”: The old quarter-draught
was saddled and the boss helped the new
hand mount. “Hold his head up,” he
said, “because he’s old and might go out
to it and you’d fail over his 1 head.” The
newchum held the reins taut and drifted
down to the creeks’ junction through
knee-deep reeds. The horse selected its
own, crossing-place and waded across to
the willow-thick bank on which the cows
and young calves were to be collected.
Reluctant to move, they calmly eyed his
mount. With an imitation of the crack
stock-whipper, he let the whip crack —it
stung his neck first, then the nag’s side.
That was enough—the old horse belted
flat-out at the cows, and in record time
the new hand sauntered swaying tri-
umphantly behind the exhausted herd
through the cowyard gate with all hands
out as audience. .r
* * * *
“Jackeroo”: Wouldn’t advise any
horseman to try that stunt of “Betcha’s”
(B. 26 /11 / ’47) in tying a bolt to the
forelock of a horse that is difficult to
catch. As soon as the prad feels the
weight of the strange object on his head
he starts swinging it violently from side
to side with disastrous results to himself
or anyone near. Hobbles are good for
stopping the rogue, but they spoil a good
hack. The most humane method is to
put a length of chain around its neck,
leaving about a foot of it to drag on the
ground. If that doesn’t work, keep him
stabled.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: There are two suitors for
Annie, daughter of old Mick the rabbit-
trapper, who has seen better days. Annie
has a wooden leg and isn’t sure of her
affections. Percy is tall and nearly hand-
some, but would be a spendthrift if he
had any money; Horace, who owns a
prosperous dairy-farm, is nuggety, with
features that look as though they were
sculptured with a blunt crowbar. As
usual, Annie entertains the rivals simul-
taneously on the sofa on the back ver-
andah, and it is the night on which she
has promised her decision as to whom she
will marry. Horace and Percy glare at
each other while she appears to ponder.
She puts down the rabbit she has been
skinning, for knitting or tatting had never
appealed to her aesthetic taste. “I feel
’orrible silly about this,” Annie giggles.
“ ’Cos I’d like to marry you both.” Then,
coyly, “I’ve decided to have you, Percy.
But well have to wait a few years till the
old man gits the old-age pepsion, so’s he
can support us comfortably.” As Percy
draws her into a fond embrace Horace,
with a terrible cry of baffled emotion,
springs to his feet. Drawing a double-
barrelled shotgun from his waistcoat
pocket he, stabs himself to the heart.
“Your game and set, I think, Percy,” are
the last gallant words he utters.
*{» H®
“Canine” on foiling the tick;
At this time of the year anywhere along
Australia’s coastal strip Towser may start to
wobble on his hind legs. Then his bark, which
was once a deep bass, will strike a treble key,
and unless something is done immediately for
him the dog will soon be unable to use his
forelegs either, will stiffen and finally die from
paralysis of the muscles governing his breathing
—a victim of tick-bite. Once the dog begins
to show these symptoms give him a thorough
going-over (there’s likely to be more than
one tick) and, if he can still swallow, some
purgative like casoara. If he is unable
to drink water never give him medicine, as it
will pour straight into his lungs, making him
a sitter for pneumonia. A little brandy in
water should be placed on his tongue every
hour, and apart from that the dog should be
left well alone in a warm place. If treated
early he should have a good chance of re-
covery. As the tick must be on the dog for
at least four days before she starts her dirty
work, a daily tick-hunt will make it impos-
sible for him ever to become a victim. As
an added precaution, derris dust, rubbed into
the dog’s hair twice a week, will make the
toughest tick wish that she’d stayed home.
* * * *
“Brolga”; One of my pet theories
about horsebreaking is that as everything
is strange to the newly-broken youngster
he will not regard additional bits of
education as anything out of the ordinary.
If you disregard the fact that you are
mounted on a colt, and carry a kero.-tin
or a billycan on him, he won’t take much
notice of it after a few perfunctory
snorts, taking it as just another part of the
unusual proceedings of being broken-in.
But if you kid to him and are careful to
avoid carrying any article which might
rattle or otherwise alarm him until he
has been in work for some time, then he
is quite likely to object to carrying any-
thing he’s not used to. I’d rather carry
a billycan on a green colt any day than
on some quiet old moke that has not, for
some reason or other,, ever had to carry
strange articles. Once amazed a cocky
by returning to the yards with a calf
across the withers of a very green colt —
he hadn’t a hope in the world of carrying
a calf on his own tame old hacks.
* * * *
“Blime”: Dip was mooching round
the showgrounds watching the crowd,
when the chap by the small enclosure
bailed him up. “Here y’ are, mate,” he
invited. “Guess the weight o’ the big bul-
lock and win a quid. C’mon ; only cost
y’ a deener.” Dip hesitated, squirmed,
dragged out the deener, and looked round
hopefully. Catching sight of Dan propped
on the fence, he sidled up. “Git him out
the way a minute, will y’?” he whispered,
jabbing a thumb in direction of the
bloke in charge. “Anywhere’ll do. Tell
y’ later.” Dan managed it, and as the
bloke turned his back. Dip nipped into
the yard and grabbed the bullock by one
leg. For a minute he heaved mightily,
then, dropping it, he ran an arm round
the beast’s muzzle and lifted. A specu-
lative swing of its tail, and he was again
over the rails. “Quick, Dan,” he gasped,
“what’s four times a ’undred ’n’ ten? Aw-
right, add twenty more, and stick on an-
other three for the tail. Righto. Now
don’t let on about it, an’ we’ll go whacks,”
WHISTLING DICK.
In an old bush home where the fringing bracken
Edged the river, with reed and rush,
Always we children used to waken
To the silver.flute of the native thrush.
When circling earth in its endless turning
Out of the shadows vast and thick
Wheeled back under the wings of morning
Day returned with Whistling Dick.
Many and gay were the music-makers;
Magpies carolled from ringbarked gums,
Butcher-birds from frothy acres
Of cloud-pink apples and snowdrift plums;
The cuckoos cried through their homeless
rambles
Out of the saplings or out of the air,
A Derwent Jackass rang bells in the brambles,
But Whistling Dick sang everywhere.
From the edge of the acres of flat, low scrub,
From the bush that rolled in a broken line
Where the celery-top and the messmate rub
Shoulders with heaven and the Huon pine,
Where primeval myrtles hung with moss
Curtained a twilight ages old,
Whistling Dick would cut across
The gloom with his arrows of singing gold.
In sinister gaps where the “tiger” roamed
(A legend now and a myth almost),
Where wild creek water was clawed and combed
By rocky fangs into racing frost,
Through haunts of the great black cockatoos
Whose nests, it was said, were never found,
His trill in the tree-ferns shook the dews
In doubles of pearl-drops to the ground.
If we roamed too far in the tangled riot
Along the wallabies’ winding track,
Till we grew afraid of the forest quiet,
Whistling Dick would call us back —
To the garden gate and our journey’s ending
In a harvest of honeysuckle vines,
Through lad’s-love, lupins and cloves contending
With cabbage-roses and columbines.
Whistling Dick at autumn’s end
Has whistled me up the long ago
Whose rosemarys have no thorns to rend
And gaily the everlastings grow ; —
Though the lad’s-love banners have long been
furled
With the love-in-a-mist and the kiss-me-quick
Since I belonged to that morning world
And the world belonged to Whistling Dick.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Bo”: When the utility broke an axle
half-way out from town the boss sent
Ben in the sulky to pick up the stranded
driver and his offsider and as much of
the stuff as he could get in the sulky.
Ben had had to go five miles out of his
way because the bridge he generally used
was barred by reason of recent flood
damage, so when he had loaded up he
decided to ford the creek on the return
journey. When they got to the bank
they found it steeper than he had thought,
so Ben took the horse out. When Harry,
the utility-driver, wanted to unload the
gear Ben roared about the work and
time they’d waste. “We’ll do it easy,”
he said. “I’ll get between the shafts an’
youse blokes take a wheel each and ease
her down gently. The nag’ll pull
her up the other side —it don’t slope half
as much there.” Ben had his way and
they started to “ease her down” ; then
the heavily laden sulky started to get
away. Soon Ben was doing a gallop;
“A ton you ordered V a ton it is!"
then he stumbled. One of the shafts hit
a big boulder, the whole concern rose in
the air, turned a somersault and
landed within a fe.w inches of the creek
after scattering everything in it into the
muddy stream. As Ben sat up, dazedly
wondering how he hadn’t been “knocked
rotten,” Harry came bounding down the
bank, a large grin on his face. “You
little beaut!” he shouted. “I bet Steve
five bob you’d never do it! ”
♦ * * *
“Bridle-track”: During one of Bombo’s
periodic walkabouts he got into holts
with a brown snake, which fastened to
his big toe. Having killed Joe, he tried
to suck the venom, but the contortion
was beyond him. Swiftly, but regret-
fully—for he’d now have to learn to
pick things up between the big and second
toes of his left foot —he hacked off the
toe, applied a herbal antidote, and stuck
the big toe on again temporarily with
the aid of a tie-pin he had comman-
deered. But too tedious for Bombo were
the customary earthen compresses for
healing limbs. He’s been limping around
for months now, too apprehensive, lest
the limb hasn’t healed, to remove the
block of cement in which his foot is en-
cased.
“E. 2”: The fireplace in Dan’s shack is
a huge affair of irregular granite stones.
With roaring log fires through the winter
the stones stay warm and mice burrow
into the red loam used to pack the
crevices. Every summer a snake turns
up in the patch of garden at the back and
slithers into this refuge ; whereupon Dan
pulls down the chimney and roots out the
stones to get the wriggler. It takes the
best part of a week to rebuild the fire-
place. When asked why he didn’t pack
the stones in with concrete Dan bent on
me a look of scorn, “That’d be damn’
silly,” he said, “A bloke’s got t’ have a
sure way o’ gittin’ the snakes wot come
about the place, hasn’t he? If I didn’t
have the chimbly t’ trap ’em in they’d
be bangin’ out under the house f’r weeks
an’ scarin’ the daylights out o’ the
missus.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Long ago Christmas
meant ham and poultry and —above all —
the season’s first green peas. A couple of
sowings had been made in case frost or
flood or pests descended, and through
early December Dad would pause beside
the rows, feel the most-promising pods,
pull out a weed here and there, stir the
soil, gaze at the sky, fling clods at any
poddy that even looked through the
fence, then state that with half an inch
of rain by the end of next week we’d be
set. Christmas morning, and after the first
bubbling hour and a bit of breakfast —
there were some jobs always to be done
and a bloke couldn’t stay completely
empty till dinner-time —Mum and the
girls would shoo us out of the kitchen
and we’d take buckets and go down the
paddock picking peas'. By the time we
were back Bob would be there; he’d
have brought his cows up the road to the
block opposite ours and dropped in to
wish us merry Christmas. The weather
would lead him to cricket and tales of
Clem Hill and Trumper—then Colin and
his boys would arrive, and young
Johnnie, who had reason to regard
Mum’s house as his' home. And we
would sit round the old table and shell
peas and pass sage opinions on their
quality, their texture and color, then
take them into the kitchen. A stroll
round the crop, then in to dinner; red
meat and white, stuffing and trimmings,
and round the plates wide borders of
green peas', oily with melted butter —first
peas of the season. Maybe I will get
home again in time to help shell them,
but it will be different. Bob has bowled
his last over, having taken the umpire’s
decision with a smile; and Colin’s boys
are grown up. Johnnie hasn’t grown up
—he never will; he sleeps in Singapore.
But as' the fresh green peas go pattering
cheerfully from the pods to the pot some
of us will catch the soft echo of his
gurgling chuckle and feel that his chair
is not really empty.
“Flathead”: I’ve seen some peculiar
things brought out on a day’s dinghy-
fishing One chap turned up with a beach-
casting rod and took offence when offered
a handline and bottle. Another came
for several months bearing a large bundle,
which he’d dumped in the bottom of the
boat with a very cunning grin. He kept
its contents secret until we struck a cloud-
“Well, I'm damned if I'm going to be married to a thing like that!"
burst, and then from the parcel he with-
drew a mackintosh, sou’-wester and um-
brella and sat there chuckling, quite
contented, while the shivering of the rest
of us almost had us shipping water. But
for cake-taking potentialities I name
Harry Thomas, who recently astounded
us by bringing his dog. We hadn’t been
out for long when the usual inch of
water in the bottom of our craft had in-
creased to four; Harry’s dog had with-
drawn the plug, and was chewing it to
shreds up in the bows. A few of the
hound’s other sins that day were eating
poor Lofty’s lunch ; upsetting a bottle
of Bert’s beer; disturbing the needed
hush by barking frantically at the jelly-
fish floating past; profoundly annoying
Alf Barnett by chewing his No. 5 Jap
gut in three places; and finally lifting
the only catch of the day, a five-inch
bream, and dumping it over the side. And
do you know what his owner said as we
parted glumly on the jetty: “You know,
I reckon we was usin’ the wrong bait.’.’
* * ♦ «
“Mat’s Mate”: Out near Turkey Bot-
tom, in the Wimmera, we’d landed a
harvest job and hit the farm to be greeted
by a large and pleasant bloke, who
showed us our hut and told us to make
ourselves at home. When we got into the
hut, which was spick-and-span, the first
thing we sighted was a large illuminated
text on the wall. On the table was a
neatly-printed card:
We are Christian people and we will not
tolerate drink, bad language or gambling
by our employees. As we are the owners
of the farm we have a right to insist on
good conduct. Anybody who feels that
he is not obliged to obey this request may
leave at once.
“Well,” exploded Mat, “I’m no ruddy
saint an’ never claimed t’ be, but I ain’t
havin’ no cocky tellin’ me what t’ do.” He
sat down and eyed that card, then wrote
on the back of it:
No bloke that ever worked for a Wim-
mera wheat-wrangler is fair dinkum if he
don’t do some of them things. Me and
my mate is fair dinkum and we have left.
Whereupon we gathered our swags and
struck off into the dusk. Next afternoon
we were roosting under a tree in Willen-
brina when the large and pleasant bloke
drove up in a car and roared, “Hey, what
the so-and-so is the matter with you
sanguinary such - and - suches? Why
couldn’t y’ come an’ see a flamin’ man
before y’ cleared off? My brother in
Rainbow is the parson. I only put that
flamin’ card there t’ please him. Come
orn, come orn, hop in; me purple,
crimson wheat is waitin’! ” We hopped in,
* * * ♦
“Hep-2-3-4”: A religious cult in the
U.S. that worships live snakes has re-
vealed that dead idols have real uses.
When consumption of a potent brew
almost wiped out 20 of the worshippers
the recipe was demanded at the court of
inquiry. It transpired that when the
rattlesnake which was the object of their
supplications snatched its earthly time it
was parked in a cask along with barley,
the powdered horn of a cow and a
sprinkling of herbs', and the cask was
“sealed for six months.” The Beak
ordered the brewer to be “sealed” for
twice the time it took to make his con-
coction lethal.
* * * *
“Shavia”: “Propalong’s” par (B.
26/11 / ’47) about Hawker’s Doctor Shep-
herd brought to mind a recent lift south
from Leigh Creek given to yours truly.
Stuck at Copley with a day and a half
to wait for the north-south “gan,” I was
only too glad to accept the doctor’s
offer. With the pub parlor as his!
surgery, in the half-hour I waited in the
car the doc. examined three half-caste
gins, gave an opinion on a bad case of
d.ts., pulled a molar from a boss stock-
man just in from the Birdsville track
with 1500 head of store cattle, and ad-
vised on two maternity cases. Fd been*
warned about his driving, but the warn-
ing was unnecessary; he drove hard and
fast but with the sureness of experience.
In the 100-odd miles between Copley and
Hawker he made a dozen calls at rail-
way camps and small townships, but it
wasn’t until we were nearing Hawker that
I noticed something wrong. An extra
burst of speed on a flat stretch of the
road made me look at the speedo ; it
registered over the hundred. When I
started fingering my collar and fidgeting
on the seat Dr. Shepherd grinned and
pointed out that I wasn’t the first to
make the same mistake. The car was
an ex-Army Ford, Continental type, with
left-hand steering, and the speedo was
in kilometres. In case “P.” ever gets a
similar lift and the flood season’s in
swing he might be interested in another
item of Dr. Shepherd’s equipment. He
had a telephone handset he can connect
with the low-hung telegraph line to seek
assistance if he’s bogged or he wants to
assure his wife he’s all right.
* * * *
“Narrin”; Not only snakes are targets
for medieval sentiments (B. 26/11/’47).
One of the blue-tongue lizards is known
in the Adelaide Hills as the rock-adder,
and was, when I was there, considered a
desperate beast to tackle. Even a harm-
less little gecko, velvet-bodied and quite
defenceless, is called a wood-adder in
some districts and a bloodsucker in
others. From over the Territory border
I’ve had reports of a fearsome reptile, a
“very poisonous lizard,” known as the
dog-adder. Know a chap, .quite fearless
with a pack of dogs that probably carry
enough animal parasites and pathogenic
bacteria to keep a sizable hospital busy
for a year, who sidesteps all lizards
and tells his kids not to “go handlin’
them; they carry all sorts o’ diseases.”
From another local source came
the sad story of the man who was
bitten by a sleepy lizard and who,
ever afterwards, had a short leg.
Even a travelling parson the other day
asked me whether we had many danger-
ous lizards. And when I told him that
the only poisonous lizard (two species of
Heloderma, the “Gila monster”) was
confined to south-west U.S.A. and
northern Mexico he probably listed me
among the unregenerate descendants of
Ananias.
* * * »
“Plop”: Last Wednesday night when
I landed at Harry Jubb’s for our weekly
games of draughts I found the place in
an uproar. “It’s the mossies,” Harry ex-
plained ; “they’ve gorn mad.” The wet
weather had brought out mosquitoes all
over the district, but they were apparently
concentrating on the Jubbs. Harry
pointed out id amazement how they
would spiral up towards the ceiling, drop
doVn to the floor, spin there for a while
and then shoot out to sting whoever hap-
pened to be nearest. “You’d think they
were plastered,” he said. “Look at this
mob here fighting with each other.” He
led me out and over to a ponderous
article hanging by a string from a rafter.
It had a coating of mosquitoes with
others hovering about it ready to take
their places. “How much brandy did you
put ip this puddin’, Mum?” he bellowed
over the hum. “Oh, I finished off what
you had in that bottle in your cupboard,”
she replied. “Just as I thought,” said
Harry. “That was some of the Royal’s
triple-strength O.P. rum that I’ve been
usin’ for paint-stripper. We’ll play on
the porch. Out there we’ll only strike
the sober ones cornin’ in,”
A CHRISTMAS TOAST.
Here is Christmas with us once again and
memories turning back
To some misty Gippsland village in the rain;
Or a blistered, dusty township on a lonely
Barcoo track,
A cottage in a sea of Mallee grain.
No matter where we come from, be they near
or distant parts,
There’s a toast for all the memoyy can hold
Of the true hearts, the good hearts, the ever
loyal and loving hearts,
The hearts that loved* the blessed place of
old.
j No bushman thinks of Christmas but he sighs
for some old mate
He battled outback tracks with long ago;
Sharing handouts from The Towers to the
Euston boundary gate,
In burning claypan camps or Guyra snow.
So here’s to all the good old mates, the saints
and reprobates,
And every hard-luck story that they told;
To good mates and dinkum mates, long and
short and medium mates
Who tramped the outback tracks in days of
4 old.
Never comes the Christmas season but we
think of other days,
And changes that the marching years have
wrought;
Our youth, we know, was simple when com-
pared with modern ways—
Though that’s the very thing our fathers
thought.
Yet things there be that never change—like
hope that ever springs,
And truth, that never yet was bought or
sold:
The true things, the good things, the precious
and the peerless things,
The things that stand as firmly as of old.
It’s a sentimental season when the gifts are
passed around
With a kiss or two, perhaps a warming glance,
And from all the bygone Christmases, like
wraiths from midnight ground,
Rise the memories of every dead romance.
Ah, the girls we spent our money on, from
perfume up to pearls,
And trinkets made of Brummagem or gold;
The true girls, the good girls, the haughty and
the naughty girls,
The girls we loved and lost in days of old.
There are those who sneer at Christmas and
the faith our fathers held,
Decry it with a false and brazen tongue;
Their hearts are cold and barren, ne’er by
kindliness impelled,
They’ve forgotten all the time when they
were young.
Away with them, our toast’s for those who, be
they flush or broke,
Have hearts the season’s riches to behold;
To the good folk, the true folk, the loving
and beloved folk,
The folk who keep the Christmas as of old.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


You can tell it’s
A "MAXIMUM" PROPERTY!
• WELL WATERED • BETTER CROPS
• MORE PROFITABLE
Parched land gives poor profits. You can grow splendid crops
and get good returns for far less effort with "Maximum," the
modern spray irrigation system.
You'll have water where and when you want itl
No other system can be erected and moved
with such ease and speed. "Maximum" has the
famous flexible coupling. You change pipe
positions quickly without stopping pump or
motor. Gives good coverage and cost per acre is low.
Agents: Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. J 1456.
- 15 - - ■ c-..x.. A..-*,, i!, M 7127.
Pascoe & Co., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia.
Welling & Crossley Pty. Ltd., 143-149
Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. MX 4889.
MANUFACTURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY
IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY
MA 7858
Mail this coupon to Maximum Spray
Irrigation Co., or to any of the agents
listed. Learn more about "Maximum"
. . . how it can help you!
Name ■___
Add ress
8.8
IT'S EXPERIENCE THAT COUNTS !
We are proud of our 84 YEARS OF DISTINGUISHED SERVICE TO THE
MAN ON THE LAND. These years of extensive activities in the sale of wool;
produce; fat, store or stud stock; or property—in the purchase of station and
other requirements—in the rendering of personal services—have built up an
organisation thoroughly versed in the varied needs of the pastoralist.
Team up with A.M.L.&F. and let their experts help you with all your problems,
speedily and efficiently. Get in touch with A.M.L.&F. today!
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henly and Hay.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock , . .
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders . . .
-iti-Cd-O*
° BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour ih purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes: 4058 Melbourne —758 K —712 F 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cattle-Fattening.
“Agric”: W. A. Beattie, of the
C.5.1.R., started something when he told
“Queensland Country Life” that crop
fattening was a hazardous business. It
looked, he said, as though crop-fattened
cattle had bloom, but not a great deal
of internal fat and weight. When put on
a crop they scoured for a fortnight and
didn’t put on condition until the third
week. The usual period for holding them
on crop was six weeks, by which time
they looked attractive, but often did not
weigh as well, as they looked. To make
it pay a fattener must turn off at least
two and, if possible, three drafts annu-
ally.
Farmers growing wheat on the
Darling Dbwns had to have cattle or
sheep to feed it down, but the only man
who could make oat fattening pay was the
dealer who knew where he could get
forward stores and lease other paddocks
in the event of crop failure.
Which aroused Jas. Sparkes, the Dalby
cattleman, to say that the only thing
wrong with crop fattening was that not
enough were doing it. Sparkes’s crop-
fattened bullocks made a Cannon Hill
record in August of £2B 55., and a week
later a new record of £3O; when killed,
the former lot averaged 11581 b., cold
chilled weight, and the latter 10661 b.
The bullocks were running for about 10
weeks on Algerian oats.
Whereupon A. Langmore, of Jon-
daryan, said his people were crop fatten-
ing 50 years ago. They had 1000 acres
under lucerne and winter crops. “Crop
fattening” was a somewhat ambiguous
term ; if it meant the actual fattening of,
say, a poor store bullock to a fat weigh-
ing 7501 b. he agreed with Beattie that it
did not pay, but if “topping off” was
meant it was a different proposition. For
success two factors were essential: (a)
ability to obtain good store bullocks at
a reasonable price and ( b ) the usual
scarcity of fats from the winter period
until Christmas and after, when the usual
price of beef went up shillings per 1001 b.
A. L. couldn’t follow Beattie’s six weeks’
period; he had found it nearer 10 to
12 weeks. The war and bad to indifferent
seasons had played into the hands of
Downs crop fatteners, but it would be
dangerous to bank on such conditions
continuing, and to expand the business
would require a lot of organisation. To
attempt it as a business without adequate
reserves of grassland would result in get-
ting caught.
William Kent, also of Jondaryan, is
surprised that any experienced crop
fattener could possibly have said that
cattle, or even sheep, were fattened on
crops in six weeks. Actually stock “went
off” for two weeks when put on green
feed, and as it required another two
weeks to get them back to where they
started they were really fattening for
two weeks out of the six. During his
43 years at Jondaryan well over 25,000
fat cattle had been turned off crops, and
not one went off under 10 weeks; the
majority took 12 to 13 weeks. They were
always well finished —not just beefy—
and no bullocks three years or over ever
went much under 7001 b., mostly well
over.
The Horse’s Hooves.
“Billjim”: Owing to its delicate
mechanism and exposure, care of the
horse’s foot should begin with the foal.
The hoof should be kept even in length
to avoid one side growing longer than
"It’s round brandin' time We feel the need of a few extra hands.”
the other, and the handling necessary for
this will have the effect of quieting the
foal. Shape of the hoof and quality of
its horn differ according to climate and
soil. Horses with strong feet and work-
ing on soft soil may be worked to a con-
siderable extent without shoes, but the
feet should be examined regularly and
the wearing surface kept level with a
farrier’s rasp. The sharp edge of the wall
should be rounded off with the rasp to
prevent pieces breaking off.
Outer surface of the hoof should not
be rasped, otherwise the protective coating
will be removed and the horn become
brittle and crumbly. Don’t interfere with
the frog, except to remove foreign bodies.
Sole and bars of the heel should not be
pared.
If the natural growth of the foot is not
sufficient to keep pace with wear the
horse, should be shod, but not by an
amateur; many foot troubles can be
ascribed to faulty shoeing. Horses should
be re-shod or their shoes removed about
every four weeks, except in those with
brittle or weak hooves, when shoes may
be left on a couple of weeks longer.
Brittle hooves should be kept shod.
Potash on the Cheap.
“Hortus”; Before ploughing land
in readiness for potatoes, tomatoes,
carrots and similar root crops, place
heaps of rubbish at intervals along
the cultivation prunings of fruit-
trees, clippings of hedges, unwanted
timber, etc., and burn them. The
despised bracken fern, when cut, put into
heaps and burnt, supplies more potash to
the soil than nearly every other vegetable
in nature, A sample of Pinus insignis
ash gave 19 per cent, approx, potash
and one of bracken gave 17 per cent,
approx.
You cannot grow potatoes or tomatoes
without potash. This is the cheapest way
of adding it to the soil. Not only does
the ash supply potash, but also lime and
phosphate. It is a well-known fact that
there would be far less disease on farms
and vegetable gardens if more potash and
lime were utilised.
Permanent Pastures.
“Myrrhee”: For a permanent pasture
in yictoria great care has to be exer-
cised in selecting species. Sowing an in-
ferior variety can mean a heavy loss in
grazing capacity over the years. Vic-
torian certified perennial rye (51b. per
acre) will provide a dense stand in most
areas where annual rainfall exceeds 1 20
inches. Districts like the Gippsland hill
country, where the soil is loose and well
drained and summer rainfall is fair to
good, are better suited to the growth of
cocksfoot. It js more persistent than rye
grass and provides better feed. Choose
the seed from an old-established pasture
containing a leafy strain.
Under good summer rainfall paspalum
and Kikuyu are useful. Kikuyu com-
bines well with rye grass and clovers, but
needs watching, as it can become a
troublesome weed on cultivated areas'.
Where soil moisture during summer is
insufficient for perennial rye or where
the land is waterlogged in winter Phalaris
tuberosa is worth considering. In very
wet situations the related species, Phalaris
arundinacea, is even better; lib, to 21b.
an acre will establish either if weed
growth is kept under during the first
season.
Use the direct-drop type of machine
for sowing grasses or clovers, or if the
country is too rough for an implement,
seed can be introduced by feeding out
meadow hay in the paddocks. Sow pas-
ture seed no deeper than lin. or, if soil-
moisture conditions are good, sow on the
surface, covering the seed with a brush
harrow.
Unseasoned Timber.
“Gip”: The result of an insatiable de-
mand is that timber is being rushed
straight from forests through sawmills
to builders, and unseasoned or green stuff
is being used in everything from furni-
ture to sheds. In a year or two some of
it will have warped ; splits will have ap-
peared ; dry rot will set in where exposed
to the weather and borers may be at
work. Most of the softwoods are suscept-
ible to borers, and the only way to stop
them is to treat the wood in a boric-acid
bath. This is efficient only in timber
under about 2in. thick. A creosote solu-
tion or kerosene and creosote will give
protection for a few years only. Tim-
bers containing a high percentage of
starch are often affected by borers ; those
with a low starch content are not so
susceptible.
Here is a “Queensland Agricultural
Journal” test to determine timber liable
to borer attack:
lodine solution is made by adding
ioz. of iodine crystals and |oz. of potas-
sium iodide to one quart of water and
vigorously shaking until both chemicals
are dissolved. The solution corrodes
metals and should be kept in a glass con-
tainer. The test can be made on a clean,
freshly-cut surface of the log or sawn
timber. This should include the whole
depth of the sapwood. Bulk of the
starch occurs in the medullary rays, and
for this reason the cut must be made on
the radius of the log. The solution is
applied with a small atomiser or by a
brush, and in a few minutes the starch
shows up mostly as blue-black dotted
lines. If no starch is present only the
yellow color of the iodine solution is
shown.
In this way it can be determined
whether any timber from a log need be
treated, and if so how much, or in the
case of sawn timber, what boards should
be treated. At least two tests should be
made on the end of a log, preferably on
both ends, and the extent of starch-bear-
ing wood marked with a chalk, due
allowance being made for bends or bows
in the log. Tests on boards may be made
on each end or two other suitable places.
Rabbits.
“Curlew”: When we came into these
ranges (between Euroa and Seymour) 65
years ago there wasn’t a rabbit in the
forest country. But there were plenty a
few miles west on some land acquired by


SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
EYE LOTION
"jht Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose &Co„ Ply- Ltd- King Street. Sydney.
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL and A CERTAIN
KILLER
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
'PHONE: MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
m
HE
/, Vfi
U/ye “MARS” PLAIN MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
fd
f
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFC. COY. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers
Bridge St., Valley, Brisbane.
Licensed Manufacturers in Qld. of
MEEHANITE METALS.
m
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. YlC.—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.),
Brunswick, Melbourne. S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide. W.A. The Western
Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—Charles Davies, Ltd Hobart N Z.—Motor Specialtie ß , Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Ohowrmghee Rd. BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta
& Co.. Ltd., Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
:
E&j
1 fIDAY
v Supplies
‘VETEMUL’
for
approx,
either
50 fowls.
130 doy-old
chicks,
I light horse.
4 pigs. 1 cow.
5 calves.
i 0 <;hf>pn
or 15 dogs
OfieAo/eiA {Product'
a
L'l
TRADE MARK
-and what it can do for HORSES
PIGS, CALVES, CATTLE, SHEEP
POULTRY and SHOW STOCK
Adequote amounts of vitamins A and D 3 ore
essential to live stock for normal growth, health,
production and reproduction. Vitamin Ais norm-
ally supplied by the correct natural feeds, princi-
pally green feeds, and vitamin D 3 by contact with
direct sunlight. Conditions, however, such as
difficulty in obtaining correct feeds, absence of
sun during dull weather, and the need, with modern
commercial production, to keep stock under cover
for varying periods, frequently result in stock being
deficient in either or both vitamins, A and D 3.
'Vetemul' Green Label, an emulsion containing
vitamins A and D 3 in highly concentrated form
will ensure that stock receive these vitamins in
adequate amounts. 'Vetemul' mixes easily with
water and ANY TYPE OF FEED. Following is a
summary of the main uses of 'Vetemul.'
for HORSES, when green feed is scarce and when
stabled for long periods.
for SHOWSTOCK, when, through hand feeding, the
supply of green feed is reduced and when shedded
for long periods.
for CALVES AND CATTLE, calves fed on skim milk,
dairy herds on dry feed, calves and cattle shedded
or during continued dull weather.
for PIGS, when fed mainly on skim milk or butter milk,
or scraps during dull weather when sties permit little
sunlight.
for SHEEP, where treatment is needed for vitamin A
deficiency diseases. Overseas tests have indicated
the value of vitamin A in cases of urinary calculi,
also for stud or show sheep brought in for hand
feeding.
for POULTRY, when green feed is scarce, during con-
tinued dull weather, in sheds which permit little sun-
light, or sunlight through glass which destroys sun s
vitamin value, for breeding hens and for chickens in
battery brooders.
’Vetemul' is an emulsion, therefore does not have unde-*
sirable muscular effects on any animal, or taint or make
oily, the flesh of bacon pigs. It mixes more easily than
on oil and can be used with ANY TYPE OF FEED.
If your local chemist, stock and station agent, produce
merchant or storekeeper cannot supply 'Vetemul' write to
NICHOLAS PTY. LTD., nearest branch.
VIS/47
TUcAelaA (Pty.JXd'. agricultural c veterinary division
MELBOURNE .. SYDNEY BRISBANE -• ADELAIDE •• PERTH
WMSSSjB
r zm
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
—
•
JOT.
'»> v /-
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
an Englishman—a Cambridge man who
let some rabbits free to remind him of
Old England. A brush fence took the
place of the English hedge, and it was
a great success —as rabbit-harbor. In
two years after the settlers ringed the
timber and the sunlight had brought
along a plenteous* supply of sweet grass
the rabbits swept over us in waves. We
still have them.
The country is granite with much
rock, wattle scrub and bracken. Phos-
phorus-pollard or phosphorised grain
was used during the summer, later
strychnine or arsenic with apples or
carrots. Many rabbits were destroyed,
but there were more to carry on, so that
each year was as bad as or worse than the
last. Lots of settlers left as soon as they
could sell. A few families were stickers,
and, like the rabbits, they dug in. They
are here still, and mostly prosperous. But
they were not afraid to use the shovel
and dig out the burrows. Also they im-
proved their properties, cleared out the
wattles and have done a good deal of
bracken destruction. But, above all, they
are always on the alert.
Ferrets are used amongst rocks or in
washouts. Bad burrows are ploughed up,
dug in and, if opened, closely trapped.
But one has always to remember that
the price of liberty is eternal vigilance.
If the boundaries are securely netted and
the prisoners destroyed and burrows
dealt with one should get rabbits only
over or under the netting. Regular
patrol around the boundary-fence will
show traces of any rabbits inside. Two
or three dogs will soon account for these,
and that settles the breeders.
During July about 80 tons of rabbit
skins a week were sold in Melbourne —
say, 320 tons for the month. At seven
skins to the pound that meant 5,017,600
rabbits accounted for during July. I’m
satisfied that the man responsible for
rabbit infestation is the careless land-
holder who thinks it is sufficient to go
around his paddocks two or three times
a year with a little poison or some stink
bombs. To beat rabbits you’ve got to
keep at them in the same way that they
keep at you.
Hints for the Farm.
“Urana”: Turkey eggs should not be
more than 10 days old to be hatched in
an incubator. Test for fertility about the
seventh day and look for dead embryo
on the 21st day. Turn eggs twice daily
until the 25th day. Remove tray from
the incubator each day after the second
week and allow eggs to cool until luke-
warm. Keep moisture trays full all the
time. Satisfactory temperatures are:
First week, 1(30.5 F. ; second week, 101.5
F. ; third week, 102.5 F.; fourth week,
103 F. During the last couple of days
the temperature may rise one or two
degrees without causing worry.
“C.A.A.”: January is a good time to
re-work stone fruit-trees by budding. Bud
root-stocks within a- few inches of the
ground. When changing the variety insert
the buds in healthy laterals at a distance
of six to eight inches from their base.
Home gardeners instead of growing a
tree of a single variety should bud several
varieties on the one tree, thus providing
a succession of ripe fruit from mid-
December until February. Budding of
at least two varieties of plums on the
one tree will aid cross-pollination. Be
sure to select healthy, well-grown bud-
wood, free from leaf variegation and see
that it contains leaf buds. Multiple buds
often occurring in peaches,- apricots and
Japanese plums are suitable, but don’t use
single blossom buds which are plump and
round and often occur on peach-trees.
“Shirley”; When our chicks began toe-
picking we were told to tie a piece of
liver to the netting. This we have done
every few days with each batch since and
have had no more toe-picking trouble.
The liver seems to satisfy the craving for
meat in chicks which have not the oppor-
tunity of catching beetles, worms, etc.,
like those reared on free range.
“Myrr”: In normal weather a laying
fowl will drink 5 or 6oz. of water a day ;
more in hot weather. Allowing for
wastage, 20 fowls will need a gallon of
fresh water daily. The drinking vessels
should be clean and, in hot weather,
located in a cool spot. Leave medicines
or disinfectants out; they discourage the
birds from drinking their fill, with conse-
quent falling away in production. When
needed, medicines are best given in the
food.
“Ben Acre”: Keep a vice of a size
convenient to bolt on to the platform of
a truck, the footboard of a harvester, or
a post by the windmill; and carry it for
use wherever it is needed.
“Myrrhee”: When collar rot shows up
in citrus remove soil from around trunk
and main roots near the diseased area.
Cut dead tissue away and apply a mixture
of 4oz. of copper sulphate (bluestone),
Boz. of water-slaked lime and sufficient
water to make a workable paste. If the
tree is to be fumigated for scale omit this
paste and use a mixture of 4oz. of zinc
sulphate, loz. of copper sulphate and 4oz.
of lime. These treatments are of use only
in the comparatively early stages of the
trouble. If girdling of,the trunk is com-
plete or nearly so treatment is useless.
“C.A.L.”: Willanjee station, in the
Broken Hill district, has a novel bathing
pool for the station kiddies in the bottom
section of a cotrugated-iron circular tank,
having sides 2ft. high, and a diameter of
15ft. Set in the middle of the homestead
lawn it is a great boon to the small
children during summer months, and they
can frolic in the water without fear of
drowning. Farms which have dams dan-
gerous to children who cannot swim
would do well to copy the idea.
“Mr.”: As a preliminary in all cases
of dog skin infection, cut the hair short
around the diseased parts, wash with soap
and water and dab on some methylated
spirit. Then apply the following treat-
ments : Mange, rub in a 20 p.c. emulsion
of benzyl benzoate, or 33 p.c. di-methyl
phthalate in oil twice a week ; Ringworm,
point daily with Liq. lodi Mitis or alco-
holic triple dye; Eczema, rub in daily a
lotion of zinc oxide, sulphur, borochlore-
tone, Liq. Picis Curb, and carron oil.
“Ex - C.G.”: Vic, Soil Conservation
Board is calling entries for its fourth
erosion-control contest in the Goulburn
catchment area—Mansfield, Alexandra,
Yea, Broadford, Kilmore, Pyalong, Sey-.
mour, Goulburn, Violet Town, Euroa,
Benalla, Dookie, Currawa and Heales-
ville districts. Entries to be in by
14/2/’4B.


I*
£
IT
U-Q
i ii ■ •..r. u n
WT'i
* i i
do: i.'i'ii' 1
M“h?> >:•>>
ilr
m a// E vents . , .
It’s time to celebrate when your dog-racing choice
romps to the post—and, of course, you’ll celebrate
with your favourite—Tintara Gold Label Port. After
a remunerative day with the “hounds and tin hare”—
or after any day’s sport, exercise or work, a glass of
mellow Tintara Gold Label Port dispels tiredness,
soothes the nerves, and restores lost energy. There’s
always perfect satisfaction for you—for all in Tintara
Gold Label Port. Meet the Champions: Adelaide
Wine Show—Champion Prizes—Florfino Sherry;
Old Castle Riesling; Fine Old Liqueur Port. Sydney
Royal Show—Champion Prize—Old Liqueur Port.
First and Second Prize—Old Brandy. First Prizes—
Vintage Port; Export Port; Export Muscatel; Fine
Old Liqueur Port. Melbourne Wine Show—Cham-
pion Prizes—Fine Old Liqueur Port; Old Castle
Riesling.
*7 often wonder what the vintners buy One half so precious as the goods they sell,**
OMAR KHAYYAM
MADE BY THOMAS HARDY & SONS LTD., ADELAIDE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
IHB7
‘Oyaltihe* goes to
THE ANTARCTIC !
Expert dieticians who drew
np the specially balanced diet for the
Australian Antarctic Expedition nat-
urally included ‘Ovaltine’ • • •
1,000 one-pound tins of it.
They well know by scientific
test, that ‘Ovaltine’ contains all the
food elements necessary to build and
sustain perfect physical fitness and
to provide the nourishment ' and
energy needed by men exposed to
the rigours of the South Pole.
‘Ovaltine’ is the world’s supreme
tonic food beverage.
OVALTINE’
Builds, Protects, Nourishes, Sustains
THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction oi
Iheir cost The "National” Rotary Dupß»
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing*
Plans. Music, etc.
touiti eritirtly I* Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltdj
- = SYDNEY AND BBISBANE ■ ■ -
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Fellow held there aloft by the four cross-
ing lights. Everything about him, even
the old Digger tunic he had had on for
the fishing, momentarily marvellously
alive. Like an extraordinary living statue
lighted up in the night.
Lighted therfe, caught in the searching
beams, exactly like that doomed Fritz
plane was in the searchlights, with the
gleaming fighter swooping in from the in-
visible sky outside the nimbus, splutter-
ing away with his tracers. The doomed
plane caught, hit, bursting into flames;
and then the grim comic: the groundlings
below, starting up out of the earth, yell-
ing in triumph to see him roast, to see
him come toppling down, over and over,
in a great mass of flames. Yelling like
all the furies let loose; throwing up
mocking laughter; grabbing anything
they could belt —tin plates and dixies
from the cookhouse; emptying the con-
venience-buckets from beside, the tents ;
belting away at anything that would give
a sound ; deafening the air with noise, like
a lot of mad drummers.
Well, and ha, ha and hell’s bells, that
was the end of Fritz. Burnt to a cinder,
and drummed down by those mad tin-
kettlers into the earth.
Dust into dust; back into the earth,
where the Scotties—surely madmen, too
—that other night buried their dead.
That was a sight to remember, those
dead men lying in what the army spoke
of as waves. Like long curved waves
of the sea ; only much farther apart;
motionless ; waves of dead men; three
waves of them, lying where the machine-
guns had swept them down.
The Scotties could have buried them
in the daytime; the machine-gunners
weren’t there any more ; they were dead,
too; and the line was pushed on a mile
or two past where the dead men fell.
But no; the Scotties had to bury them
at night in the fog; all in the one long
grave. Some mad ritual or other handed
down by their mad ancestors. The chief
of them standing at one end of the grave
holding one of the lights; more light
from the motor-bike headlamps cutting
through the wandering mists.
The long grave dug; the dead carried
in through the fog; the mad line of
pipers standing in the mad wisps of mist,
filling the night with their terrible dirge ;
and the silver-misted little drummer
rattling away madly on his little drum.
All of them, all the mad scene, misted
and silvered over with the madness of
the moon.
But those are figures of the dead ; those
are the conjurings of death; and this
scene in the rocky sea between the close
headlands is all life. The men with the
four lights are alive; the lights them-
selves are alive ; the Dumb Fellow, huge
above on the black rock, is everlastingly
alive. Even the big silver fish is alive
still.
For surely these things do not just
happen and be no more. The plane fall-
ing in flames from the sky; that is ever-
lasting: that streaming meteor mass of
flames falls for ever towards the tin-
kettling maniac madmen beneath. The
mad Scotties burying their dead in the
silver of the moon’s madness; the mad
little misted drummer rattling away under
the high wailing of the pipes: that cannot
just happen and be no more. It is there
somewhere still; and somewhere there
the Dumb Fellow standing for ever in
the light above the sea.
HT HEY had .gone down, the five of
1 them, after the fish, as they said.
They had got out of the battered old
open car and changed in the shed from
their old clothes to the older ones they
had in their sugarbags. The night was
right for them: no moon, and the tide
going out early.
Still; plenty of time. They got their
lights ready; setting the drips of water
dropping to act on the carbide in the
containers strapped at their belts. They
sat yarning about what was now their
life—what had always been their life,
really. About stock, and the ploughing ;
fowls and pigs. The Dumb Fellow
nodding agreement or disagreement. If
he disagreed, one of the others would
take his side and be vocal for him.
Only the Dumb Fellow had an army
tunic. He didn’t notice that, nor did
they. It was just old duds; O.K. for
getting after the fish in. If it had any
other meaning, it was all too vague to
figure in any conscious thought. In-
distinguishable, anyhow, in the darkness,
as they went into the night from the shed,
taking their time, making their way
across to the gap, towards the lumpy
headlands. They were just five dimly-
seen figures trudging along. They might
have been any age ; they might have been
any sort of men. They were in no hurry.
They tramped, trudged, slummicked
along. Ordinary, slow, clumsy, common-
place.
THEY began picking their way, still not
using their lights lest they scare the
fish, out from rock to black rock. There
was the difference now, though, that
their movements had become silent.
They had to get out past the rising and
falling patches and fissures of water surg-
ing among the rocks. The fish were in
there; throw a light on them and they’d
be off to sea, darting in dark streaks
under the water.
Out there the five of them got down
into water up to their thighs, coming
higher and going lower on them as the
seas surged in and out. They formed up
as what they actually were —a team, with
something like a Rugby formation: two
in front, one in behind* them and the
other two out on the flanks. They lit
their powerful lamps, holding the light
in against their bodies.
Taking the lead they accorded him,
Jim, in front, shouted “Right!” It was
the order to action. The five lights
turned in a flash on to the water.
An incredible change came over them.
At the sight of the darting fish they
yelled, screamed. They went lunging,
splashing forward. The scoops dipped at
the fish darting to get past them, away
to sea. The fish were fast, but they
were a great deal faster. They were all
noise and action. Half-falling, plunging,
cursing. The night in the gap a bed-
lam. Down the scoops and up with fish ;
thrown in the one movement into the
bags held open with rings of wire, slung
over their backs.
Splashing up, they scrambled without
stopping on over the rampart rocks into
the next surging channel. The noise of
their splashing and yelling, their raw
cursing as a big one bumped past getting
away, could have been heard a mile off.
The headlands threw the shouting from
their one dark wall to the other. The
five in the rocks heard nothing of it.
They were oblivious of everything. Mad-
men in action. They felt nothing; saw
nothing but the dark, darting glides of
the fish.
They were men metamorphosed and
possessed. They were a unit of hard
fighters assaulting through the rocks.
They were not those who came mooch-
ing down through the dusk. They had
lost all track of themselves as such. They
were beings. They were five fiends
broken loose in the night. Deadly,
savage, quick.
The bags on their backs getting heavy
with the fish and the scooped water
running down; but they were uncon-
scious of them when the Dumb Fellow
splashed and scrambled up on to the
round black rock, his light throwing his
triumph on to the great silver drummer.
They all stood and threw the beams
of their lights up at the Dumb Fellow.
Up there in the crossed beams he made
a terrific figure. They all yelled at him.
They shouted questions, forgetting he
was the Dumb Fellow. He had forgotten
it himself, and was trying to talk. His
mouth opened and shut in a dumb show.
But the doctors had been right. He
would never speak again.
Ah well, the night was getting on. He
lifted the bags and hung them over the
square jut of his shoulder. He trudged
on, back bent under the weight. He
looked like a burdened night toiler going
home from work. The white statue with
the fading flowers at its feet was alone
under the light. It meant nothing to him.
He hadn’t looked at it. He hardly knew
that white dumb fellow was there.


Migrating
FOR A HOLIDAY OR
A BUSINESS VISIT
Fly to New Zealand, swiftly and
in comfort. Save precious days
for business or pleasure.
The luxurious Tasman flying
boats leave Sydney every
morning for Auckland.
Bookings can be made
at any office of
Qantas Empire Air-
ways or through
leading travel
a g e n t s.
TEAL
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
MUSICAL COMBINATIONS
A.B.C. Light Orchestra
Clive Amadio’s Quintet
Gil Dech and his Orchestra
New Note Octet
Queensland State String Quartet
Alfred Shaw Ensemble
Margaret Sutherland’s Quartet
George Trevare and his Orchestra
A.B.C. Military Band
Australian Commonwealth Band
Ask your music dealer for
Catalogue of Australian Recordings
Columbia
THE FINEST NAME ON RECORD
Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Homebush,
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“The Bush Church Aid Society urgently re-
quires a god used car for deputation work.”
Verily and literally a deus ex machina.
4* 4* 4* ’ 4*
“The Australian Apple and Pear Growers’
Association objected to ‘control of the Board
by the Minister.’ Section 26 permits a ballet
of growers in the event of dissatisfaction.”
In the “Dance of the Sugar-plum
Fairies”?
•j* . 4*
“Woman was once valued at the sum of
1201 b. of tobacco.” — Women’s paper.
Still, they probably didn’t consider
that a great drawback.
-I* "c 4*
“How many many suspenders are missing
from your foundation garment?”
— Women’s paper.
Two many, dear.
“Boys, if you want a wife, catch them while
they are young and silly.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
And get one that’s mad on you.
•J* *l* *l*
“At the barbecue members of Parliament
conducted a chop-eating contest. Mr. James
(Lab., N.S.W.) and Mr. Russell (Lab., S.A.)
were unofficial winners.” — Melbourne “Age.”
When the Budget came on the whole
crowd hopped in for their chop.
•h
“Eight hundred tribesmen from Southern
Afghanistan who passed through Rawalpindi
carried the latest pattern Russian rifles.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
They’ll be no match, however, for
modern breech-loading weapons.
•I* 'i* -I" *b
“Ships under arrest.” — “SM.H.”
For being half seas over?
4* 4* 4* *i*
“Sneeze in car cost Lithgow motorist £65.”
— “S.M.H.”
After sneezing he coughed.
The Better Part of Valor.
“Summons served on man in bed.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
He wasn’t reckless — didn’t leap from bed
To run away, or do his block and
crown
The early bird who brought the “blue.”
Instead,
He had the sense to take it lying down.
Cal,
4* 4* 4*
“Pick your cosmetics carefully.”
— Woman’s paper.
And never shovel them on.
❖ 4*
“Double bedroom suite, with loughboy, panel
bed, mole.” —“Great Northern” (Sydney).
Any instructions on how to feed the
mole?
“Wine, women and song be hanged. There Wasn't a bit of singing
the whole night!”
“Business coupe require small s.c. flat, with
convs.” — Suburban paper.
Garage essential.
•J* 4*
“I have seen women pay more for a second-
hand article at an auction sale than they would
have had to pay for a new article in a shop
a few yards away.”— “New Idea."
Just making a bid for notoriety.
On the Nose.
“He was having his dinner when a girl at
the next table powdered her face so vigorously
that some of the powder floated into his soup.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
The man who knows his way about
In boarding-house and third-rate pub
Will have experienced, no doubt,
Vicissitudes concerning grub
And not be readily put out.
He won’t expect a cook to stick
To turtle-soup or rich clam-chowder,
But will he drink without a kick
A soup enriched with suntan powder?
No, sir ! That’s fust a bit too thick !
D. H. E.
Bare Living Assured.
“The publicity for pin-up girls is waning in
the British film industry.”
At least, if stars of British shows
Have lost thei glamor role that goes
With war conditions, at the worst.
Though fortune’s bubble may have burst
And pin-up beauty henceforth pall,
They simply won’t go to the wall.
BERT.
“Terrible As An Army.”
The Gyppo Expeditionary Force was
in grand fighting trim.
Training of the soldiers had been short
but strenuous. First, they had spent
weeks practising poking out their tongues
at photos of a crowd of swarthy, hook-
nosed men in long overcoats, and with
bowler hats pulled down over-their ears,
who stood under a triple-ball sign holding
in one hand a placard marked “shent per
shent” and in the other a fire-insurance
policy.
Learning to scream imprecations in
Yiddish had taken some time. A few of
the more brilliant and trusted fighters
were given rifle-shooting practice, which
was held up for months when a dead-
lock was reached. The riflemen claimed
they couldn’t be expected to shoot while
hundreds of flies were in the corners of
their eyes. When their Syrian instructor
suggested they could brush the flies off
the riflemen struck at this insult, their
spokesman declaring that no Gyppo ever
brushed the flies out of his eyes.
The rifle shooting was abandoned
when a bullet went through the fez of
General Mudgut Pasha, who was stand-
ing half a mile to the flank of the target.
But the most important part of the
Gyppo Expeditionary Force’s training had
consisted in whipping off military boots
and putting on running shoes. It says
much for the enthusiasm of every soldier
that the average time was reduced to
Bsec. and a world record figure of 6isec.
was established.
The scene as the fighters moved off
from their camp at El Wattasite in the full
panoply of war was something to stir
terror in the hearts of any enemy.
There were so many of them that some
even kept in step with others. Across
the desert they came, bearing banners
which were inscribed with their famous
fighting slogan, “ Now bring on your
paper bags!” and chanting their terrible
war cries; “Givit backsheesh,” “You look
for nice-a girl, meesta?” and “Orengis
veree good, veree sweet, fullajoos, free
piastre.”
There had been a prolonged halt about
half-way to the Unholy Land. One
morning the cooks, on being awakened
as usual about nine o’clock, had gone out
to boil up the vultures, crows and rats
that had been caught the day before,
only to find that the mobile cookhouse
had disappeared, as well as all the donks
and all of the troops’ boots, which the
G.O.C. had the night before ordered to
be stacked in a heap in front of his tent,
with all the guards given a night off.
There had been no significance in the
fact that in the night-time a swarthy,
bearded, hook-nosed gent, in a long over-
coat and large bowler hat pulled over his
ears had come in an empty truck and
gone away in a laden one after having
interviewed General Mudgut Pasha, who
the next day went around with a bulge
in his hip pocket bigger than a camel’s
hump. The next night the General put
a heavy guard over all the camp gear,
though strangely enough the thieves never
came again. The Gyppo army, simply
itching to have a crack at the enemy—
or, at any rate, just itching—had to wait
a few months while replacements were
sent from an abandoned Italian camp in
the Libyan Desert.
At long last the borders of Palestine
hove in sight, and the Gyppo Expedi-
tionary Force, girded for instant battle,
made camp on the right side of
the border. Here, just as when Rommel
invaded Egypt, the General called agon-
isingly for someone to hold his fight-
ing-mad men back, for, gallant soldier
that he was, he dreaded to think what
would happen to the foemen if those
warriors of his got among them, especi-
ally if the enemy was caught asleep and
with full purses. And although there
didn’t seem to be anyone around to
answer his call, the G.E.F., by magnifi-.
cent self-discipline, held themselves back
—in fact, the way they did it made it
look ridiculously easy.
The special pride of the G.E.F. was its
artillery. An old 105 m.m. howitzer, it
didn’t have a speck of mud on it. This
was probably because for about 100 miles
in every direction there was only sand,
and whether any of this had got into
the barrel wouldn’t be determined until
after they had fired the first shot. It
was hoped the barrel would last out until
the whole seven shells had been fired,
including the five with the loose copper
bands.
In the first night raid into a stretch of
unguarded enemy territory the Gyppos
had covered themselves with glory, re-
turning with the equivalent of 72 cases
of blood oranges. Next day General
Mudgut Pasha could muster only his ding-
bat for the grand parade, as all the rest
of his army were away selling oranges
to the inhabitants of the near-by villages.
One day, after they had all come back
to await the ripening of the next crop,
the alarm sounded. Several Jews had
been sighted, and some of the picked
Gyppo fighting men spat at their faces,
but their saliva fell quarter of a mile
short. When the Jews gave them the
“raspberry” the blood-mad Gyppos
rushed for their howitzer. It was then
they realised the breech-block was miss-
ing. It was purely a coincidence that in
the pocket of the G.O.C. was a pawn-
ticket for “Piece of artillery mechanism,
I,” and that there was a Moscow-shop in
the village near where they were camped.
The Gyppo Expeditionary Force might
have been there yet, waiting for the signal
that would have sent them tearing at the
throats of their enemies like berserk
rabbits, only that one morning the
General’s staff car, a 1913 Di Dion, back-
fired. The whole army, including General
Mudgut Pasha, who didn’t wait to be
burdened by a car, did the 120-mile back
to Ismailia in 16 hours flat.
The new Gyppo army record for
changing from heavy boots to running
shoes is 3^sec.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; ail others 2£d. per line.
Beauty
I work in one of those delicatessen
suburbs which are noted for their
abundance of yellow-haired women.
Not warm natural blondes but heart-
less yellows, synthetic straws and
chemical creams, all with a flinty
glitter to them. Usually they are
arranged in elaborate and expensive
forms, like the tails of horses decorated
for show or the tops Of birthday cakes,
and the mass of semi-solid geometry is
often lashed, netted or gummed into a
grim defence against anything. The faces
below are in keeping, and explain the
number of “beauticians” and “coiffeuses”
jammed in between the tin-opener shops.
No doubt these victims of “glamor”
advertising believe they have made them-
selves more attractive to the eye. They
do fascinate me, hut in the way hibiscus-
decked fuzzies did, or old tattooed
Maoris, or bead-draped Kachins —
merely as examples of human behavior.
Beauty in men or women is something
deeper than that. There’s no mistaking
when you meet it. It always springs
from kindness and unselfishness in the
owner, and develops to its- full when
sufficient time is spent in the service of
others —that’s why lovely faces are so
often met among nurses and the mothers
of not-too-small families. Possibly the
unsmiling eyes and the hard mouths of
the yellow women are the result of their
having no better company, for much of
their time, than a mirror.
I never agreed with the chaps who
used to say that “any white girl would
look beautiful now.” Some of us were
away far enough and long enough—and
perhaps were old enough—to see all men
and women for what they were worth.
We would be down to the level of the
Nazi “master-race” rubbish if we failed
to see where we fall short. So, when one
recalls the superb carriage of Indian
women, the restraint and dignity of the
Chinese and the studied courtesy of
Japariese women, .there’s little pride to be
drawn from daily observation of local
types whose deportment matters only
from the neck up, whose overdecoration
jolts and whose speech jars, and who are
often rude to everyone except those who
pay approved attention to them. — Nay
Mallem (N.S.W.).
The Petrol Shortage
Petrol and oil are vital to modern
economy. If any further cuts are made
production will suffer and something like
chaos in primary production will set in.
If all the petrol supplies in the world
came only from America and had to be
bought with dollars cuts would be under-
standable, but right at our front door, in
the Dutch East Indies, are some of the
richest oilfields in the world. The Dutch
have repeatedly asked us to supply them
with goods which are as indispensable to
them as petrol is to us, and it would in-
volve no dollars to make the exchange.
If the Communist - inspired ban on
Dutch shipping is to blame, then the
sooner we resume normal trading rela-
tions with our nearest northern neighbors
the better, Australian blood was shed to
wrest the oilfields at Tarakan and Balik-
papan from the Japs. Those fields must
be in production again. If there is still
a shortage there of oilfield equipment,
let us make it and ship it as part of the
cost of the petrol sent in return.
It is a mad world in some ways, but for
this country to be starved of petrol for
necessary work when there are huge
supplies in Borneo does not make sense,
no matter how you look at it. — Forty-
Fiver (S.A.).
The Next Step
The Victorian “ ‘Labor’ tragedy,” it now
appears. Was not a true reflection of the
people’s will, but simply a conspiracy
against “Labor” engineered by the capi-
talist press. The simple, honest worker
had no way of knowing the truth because
every paper was filled with lying attacks
on “Labor” and its ideals. However,
every Victorian worker should know that
the truth is easily available at twopence
a week. Generously supported by adver-
tisements from capitalists, the “Labor”
weekly is on sale “at all newsagents,” as
it admits itself.
The only trouble seems to be that the
workers won’t buy it. They prefer the
pernicious but brighter and better-written
capitalist dailies and periodicals. Some-
thing will undoubtedly have to be done.
Mr. Chifley has already delivered us
from the tyranny of the trading banks
which prevented us from enjoying the
bureaucratic blessings of the national in-
stitution. Now he must free us from the
deadly fascination of the capitalist press.
To set up “Labor” papers that would be
more attractive than their capitalist rivals
would, of course, be to adopt the absurd
reactionary fallacy that fair competition
results in a better and cheaper product
for the public.
Clearly, there is but one democratic
way to ensure that our freedom to read
“Labor” papers is unhampered by the
temptations of the capitalist press, and
that is to expropriate the capitalist press
immediately. There may be Constitu-
tional difficulties, but those eminent
authorities on the Constitution Mr. Rose-
vear and Mr. Ward could surely work
out a way to get around these.
If some such action is not taken we
shall simply be living under a dictator-
ship of the press, just as we lived under a
dictatorship of finance in the days' when
we could bank where we wanted to. —
Yarrasider (Vic.).
Butter
About a year ago the P.P.U., through
its president, entered into an agreement
with the Federal Government to form a
committee (to be known as the Dairying
Industry Costs Survey Committee) to in-
vestigate thoroughly just what it cost the
average farmer in Australia to produce
a pound of butter. Dairyfarmers’ organ-
“’Ope they doanl play the other toon today—I've coomed
without moosic.”
isations throughout Australia were to
stand half the expense.
An Interim report by this committee
reckoned average production cost at 2s.
per pound.
With this to guide him the Federal
Minister for Commerce and Agriculture
has seen fit to award us 2s. a pound.
Apparently Mr. Pollard has us confused
with State railways and believes that we
are a public utility. There w t as a vague
mumble about £250,000 to be spent on
the industry annually and a fatherly
lecture concerning our methods-r-all of
this despite an original request for
cost of production and a fair margin of
profit.
Mr. Pollard’s Government has signed
an agreement with Britain to buy all of
our surplus butter, at cost of produc-
tion (2s. lid.), for the next five years.
The home-consumption price is to re-
main subsidised to lull the public into the
belief that it is buying cheap butter. For
years our home-consumption price has
been carrying our export price and now,
when the world is crying out for our
butter and is willing to pay our price for
it, Mr. Pollard blunders on to this plan
and calls it “Stability.”
In short, he has guaranteed us an ex-
port price of 2s. Ijd., when on world
parity our butter is worth 3s. to 45., and
committed us to supply the home market
at a loss. — Infanteer (N.S.W.).
“Labor” ancT Servicemen
During the war it was politic to sup-
press “Labor’s” attitude to servicemen
(B. 19/II / ’47), but the war ended two
years ago. The Mulcahys and Barrys
now feel free to hurl insults at opponents
who spent their health in defeating
Fascism in battle, while their slanderers
stayed home.
The reason for this open contempt of
those who did fight is that “Labor” is
not a servicemen’s party and, as it stands,
is never likely to be. “Labor’s” strength
is the unions, and few union officials are
returned soldiers —union secretaries, in
fact, were protected persons. For their
services to “the movement” these officials
are presented with the blue-ribbon
“Labor” seats.
So while the other parties are packing
Parliament with those who have the best
right to be there the servicemen
“Labor” will be sending to Canberra a
stream of Trades Hall non-starters. The
simple faith of these gentry is that every-
one who opposes “Labor” is a Fascist,
and a Fascist, of course, is one for whom
the lowest abuse is too good.
“Labor” cannot see that returned
soldiers throughout the country, “Labor”
or otherwise, are becoming restless at
seeing returned Parliamentarians being
reviled by “Labor” heroes of the great
1918-1939 war against Fascism. In its
conceit “Labor” imagines that its grip on
the serviceman worker is so firm that it
can get away with everything. It be-
lieves, in short, that returned “Labor”
supporters place their loyalty to “Labor”
before their loyalty to old cobbers of the
services. “Labor” has made many mis-
takes but few greater than this. A couple
more Barrys or Mulcahys will overturn
“Labor” quicker than anything else
could.— Pasquin (Vic.).
History
If Australia is ever to reach any
cultural heights, it must become history-
conscious. Unlike scholars in the old
world, few of our students specialise in
history; in fact, our universities and
colleges encourage study of European
history and literature to the detriment of
our own.
But we despise the past at our peril.
Unless we know it we have no guide for
the future. Our trouble is that our his-
torical values are awry. We preserve the
memory of a great racehorse, but national
figures are forgotten and historic build-
ings are converted into jam or boot fac-
tories.
Some time ago the Historical Society
approached the authorities and asked that
Captain Sturt’s cottage at the Grange
(S.A.) be taken over and preserved for the
nation, as a museum. The request was
refused and the building is slowly
crumbling away.—A. D. (S.A.).
Strikes
Managements, even the ultra-conscien-
tious variety, too often seek physical
causes for each and every strike. When
well-paid workers, enjoying the best hours
and conditions, go on strike fox an
apparently piffling reason, the boss usually
retires in disgust. In every such with-
drawal the boss pays, with bitter pro-
duction loss, for his failure to analyse
carefully the published reason for the
strike.
The worker, like the boss, is but one
section of all mankind, which acts with
perfect “pattern” behavior in obedience
to several basic emotional drives. The
strike is the symptom only of frustration
arising from the thwarting of one or more
of these motives. In psychological par-
lance the stated reason for the strike is
often a “surrogate” for an actual cause
known only subconsciously to the striking
workers themselves.
In non-technical terms the main—and
the most likely to be frustrated —drives
are the alimentary motive, the self-ex-
pressive or creative urge, the mastery
motive and the social approval or herd
instinct.
An over-simplified example would be
the case of the worker who calls his
mates out on strike because condensed
milk is supplied with the tea at smoke-oh.
On the face of it this man is reacting
against a thwarting of his alimentary
drive, but his protest against the con-
densed milk is but a pretext or “surro-
gate” covering his subconscious revolting
against the monotony-of his process work.
The obvious remedy would be a rotation
of jobs to relieve the monotony of the
task.
Intelligent management must, by a
scientific approach to the problem, un-
earth the real cause of industrial dis-
putes. In the event gf its continued
failure to do so, those whose business it
is to produce strife will never be short
of “surrogates.”— Curate’s Egg (Q.).
“Card Rg 5”
In case you don’t know, it’s the one
you had to fill in if last season’s ration
card gouldn’t be produced. My job
allows me to see these cards in a semi-
official sort of a way, and I’ve been won-
dering if a good proportion of my town
is existing quite happily without butter,
meat, tea or clothing ; if the supply of
these commodities is such that a ration
card is more of a nuisance than a neces-
sity ; or if a lot of people are eating,
drinking and clothing themselves on a lot
less than the prescribed scale.
The answers submitted in the space re-
quiring an explanation of the loss of the
ration card range from “DoWt know
where I lost it” to a detailed report on
a separate sheet of paper explaining that
the “Last remembrance of the card was
sometime in April, when we moved to a
new address.” Some answers have been
a terse “Just wore out,” while a popular
one is “Destroyed accidentally when*burn-
ing rubbish.” “The kiddies lost it when
I sent them to the shop” is a common
one, and “Lost when someone stole my
coat” has me thinking that there must be
a pretty lively blackmarket in second-
hand coats around these parts.
Apparently housewives are as careless
as ever, for the family wash has deprived
the household of bare essentials quite a
number of times. “Our puppy chewed it
up” ran another entry the meat
coupons, of course.
But here’s the rub. My town has sup-
plied a fair quota of careless people who
haven’t bothered to apply for new
coupons when the current issue was mis-
placed. It’s obvious that many have
existed without coupons or made do with
the family pool for a long time. So it’s
just as obvious that rationing, as consti-
tuted at present, is at least a partial
failure, and we could do more in more
needy places than we have been doing.
All that butter and all that meat that
wasn’t officially eaten went somewhere.
It’s not so easy to get butchers to
slide a few pounds of rump over coupon-
free, and grocers are not inclined to dis-
tribute butter wholesale. And don’t tell
me that the people who found the lost
books used them and re-established the
quota. Many were burned or otherwise
destroyed, and the average person won’t
sign a “stat. dec.” with his tongue in his
cheek. There’s a possible explanation
though, given by one character —“Lived
in the country till lately and didn’t need
one.” — Starver (N.S.W.).
The Neglected North '
That Beattie repoft on the beef-cattle
industry (B. 10/12/ ’47) gives a frightening
picture. “Graziers know what is needed,
but they can’t get labor for improvements
and there is nothing to attract or to hold a
man with a family. If a man has any
regard for his family, he takes a job on
the coast.”
Beattie says that though people regard
the Gulf country purely as a breeding
proposition he saw cattle there every bit
as good as the best he had seen any-
where else in Queensland. The difficulty
was in moving them after they were fat,
and it was no exaggeration to say they
lost 1001 b. from the time they left a
property till they reached the coast.
Beattie is critical of the medical services
available in the Gulf country and other
parts of the north. If station workers in
some parts become ill they have to pay
£3O to get the ambulance ’plane from
Cairns or Cloncurry to take them to a
hospital.
But for aboriginal labor the Gulf
cattle industry would collapse, Geofge-
town has no dentist. After much agita-
tion it got a doctor, but he was old and
died a few weeks after he got there. A
travelling picture show has made one
visit since the war. Roads beggar descrip-
tion, but the shire councils have no
money to maintain them or build new
ones, though the people there pay the
same petrol tax and registration fees as
city folk. Depreciation on vehicles is
terrific and movement, even in dry
weather, difficult. — Outback (Q.).


Queensland Railways
“Transporticus” (B. 3/12/’47) shows a
complete misunderstanding of stock
transport in the northern State when he
suggests that stock trains should run at
an average speed of 30 m.p.h. High
speed is seriously detrimental to stock.
Railway lines cannot be built straight,
cattle trucks have a high centre of gravity
because of the substantial superstruc-
ture and the centre of gravity of stand-
ing animals is also high. Further, as the
load is a live one, it is obvious that high
speed on curves is dangerous, and there
are many curves, particularly in the
coastal areas of Queensland.
Last financial year Queensland rail-
ways carried 1,120,239 cattle and
259,576 calves, figures far in excess of
any previously recorded. This notwith-
standing the fact that the engine power
of the State was crippled by war. service
and that the average distance of haulage
was greater than ever before.
Many thousands of cattle are con-
veyed every year from north-western
stations to meatworks in the vicinity of
Brisbane, a distance of over 1400 miles,
with two spells en route. The total train
journey, excluding two spells of a day
each, takes four days, yet the cattle fre-
quently top the fat-stock market in Bris-
bane. That is pretty good evidence that
Queensland railways offer satisfactory
transport facilities.
True, western lines, built many years
ago, were of light construction, but many
of these have been relaid with heavier
rails and bridges have been strengthened.
The work is still going on.
Generally speaking, losses of cattle
by rail transport in Queensland are very
low, and many tributes have been paid by
satisfied stockowners to the efficiency of
our rail transport. A certain amount of
bruising is inevitable, but much of it is
caused by the natural restlessness of
cattle confined in trucks and their incli-
nation to use them horns on each other.
The need for more engines is better
known to the railway administration in
Queensland than to anyone else, and
every effort has been made to overcome
the shortage. Orders have been placed,
or are about to be completed, both in
Australia and overseas, for more than
100 new locomotives. But there is not the
slightest need for standard-gauge con-
struction, as, without permitting the
carriage of any more cattle, it would
add a colossal sum to the already heavy
capitalisation of the railway system. —
W. S. P. (Q.),
Work, Hours and Pay
The procession of unions demanding
another £1 per week, together with shorter
hours, shows an ignorance of the ele-
mentary fact that a people cannot have
more than it produces.
A “Labor” member just back from
America asserts that inflation is rapidly
gripping that country. The American
worker’s pay is three times that of his
Australian counterpart, but he has less
purchasing power. Australia’s labor-
inspired trend is the same as America’s.
The modern worker will not face the
fact that as pay goes up without a corres-
ponding increase in output, the cost of
living increases, and so, too, does his
scale of taxation. Yet we even hear the
P.M.G. advocating strikes to further this
trend. A fine example from the Upper
House!
Lower pay would reduce cost of living,
put the worker in a lower-taxation bracket
and tend to bring prices down to pre-
war level where workers were better off
with less money.
Hours could be reduced below 40 per
week if workers gave a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay instead of dodging
the boss, and the time now spent in loaf-
ing could be spent at home. The unionist
fails to see that it is his output which
counts, not the number of hours spent
under a factory roof— Tackline S.
(N.S.W.).
Time
During the war, when thousands of our
men were forced to work for the enemy,
one of our mathematicians pointed out
that if every slave took time off to blow
his nose as often as possible the total
loss of production for Hitler would be
enormous, amounting to serious sabotage.
In peace-time the same principle must
hold good.
I am supposed to work 40 hours a
week. A 10-minutes spell for morning
tea accounts for at least one hour, allow-
ing for a few minutes lost in stopping and
starting. Five minutes is granted for hand-
washing before knock-off. Call that an-
other half-hour per week. I am allowed
to roll fags and smoke them at the bench.
Occasionally the rolling holds up the
whole team for a minute. Ten cigarettes
a day absorbs another hour per week.
Public holidays, annual holidays and five
days’ sickness leave are all paid for and
usually “observed.” Averaged oipe a
year my productive hours of labor don’t
exceed 36 hours per week.
Now multiply my case by a million,
add a few strikes with a certain amount
of go-slow, and you have the reason for
most of the shortages that are making
life a misery for- the workers and their
dependants in the luckiest land on earth.
—Samson (S.A.).
Jap War Criminals
For three and a half years the men of
the Eighth Division were treated in such
a way as to make them intensely interested
in the brutes who bashed and starved
them and murdered their mates.
They knew that retribution would
eventually catch up with the Jap and
they hoped for an early judgment. So
far a number of war criminals has been
punished, and more will stand trial. Yet
it is unlikely that the ex-prisoner-of-war
will ever know the fate of his special
tormentor.
Knocking about in Repat. hospitals I
have often talked this matter over with
cobbers who lost precious years in
Jap prison camps. In most cases an in-
dividual was responsible for the
present condition of the patient. Has the
brute been captured or executed or
jailed? , Personally, X have sworn affi-
davits^—sometimes evidence, not against,
but for apprehended Japs. Am I not
entitled to learn whether or not my word
affected the sentence?
Generally we do know who has been
caught and who has evaded judgment.
“I’d like you to put a few inches on this!”
Some names come through in the dailies,
but more often than not they mean
nothing. We had names for them —The
Slug, Frankenstein, The Black Snake,
Basher Bill, The Ripper, Dillinger—but
the dailies don’t give those out and we
know no others.
The solution is simple. Records are
kept, and as the Japs from each prison
camp have been grouped for trials, it
would be easy for the authorities to
supply each interested Australian with a
complete document of the trial and
punishment of the wicked men with
whom he had to associate. — Sgt.
Damocles (Vic.).
The A.C.T.
The mere fact that a person lives in
the A.C.T. (population, 15,000) denies
him his right of Parliamentary represen-
tation. True, we have a representative
body in the Advisory Council, but that is
tied hand and foot. It acts in an advisory
capacity only to the Department of the
Interior, which is the real governing
body in Canberra.
During'"a long and stormy lifetime the
Council has made many recommenda-
tions to the Department, generally with-
out visible results. Having made recom-
mendations, the Council has no further
redress if the Minister sees fit to disre-
gard its wishes.
The main argument against Parlia-
mentary representation for Canberra is
that, since it is the Government’s
responsibility to maintain the city area,
there is no need for a representative. If
that were so any town having a muni-
cipal council would have no need for a
say in the governing of the country.
With uniform taxation A.C.T. resi-
dents have to pay both Federal and
State income tax like anyone else —ex-
cept that they pay without being able to
express their views on the subject.—
A. P. C. (A.C.T.).
The Blackmarket Wins
Queensland pig-raising affords a fine
example of “controls” in action. Ceilings
were clapped on pig-meat prices. Sales
were “controlled.” Bacon factories obeyed
tbe la® —they had to, being continually
under the eye of Government inspectors
—but anyone, can kill pigs and prepare
pork and smallgoods, and a great many
did so when bacon almost disappeared
from the civilian market.
Now the blackmarket is so well estab-
lished that it can outbid the factories,
which are going short of pigs in conse-
quence. The latter are paying lid. a
pound, which works out at about £7
for a heavy baconer seven to nine months
old, but weaners, at eight weeks, seldom
bring less than £3 in the yards. At the
present price of grain nobody can hold
them for six months and then fatten
them, for a gross return of £4, so those
farmers who will not sell “black” are be-
ing squeezed out of the market.
Even worse in their effects are the
fantastic prices paid for backfatters and
stags for the “black” smallgoods trade.
This is denuding the country of breeding
stock. — Heresone (Q.).
‘‘Protection”
For the protection of the worker, shear-
ing rules decree that the decision whether
or not sheep are wet shall be left to the
shearers, who take a vote on it. Should
they decide to shear wet sheep, they can
be stopped by the woolclasser. The
owner of the wool has no voice in the
matter. Here’s what can happen. v
At one shed due to start the shearers
arrived the night before and began a two-
up school. They were well cashed up
from previous sheds and. betting was wil-
ling. In the morning no one wanted to
work. They inspected the mustered sheep
penned ready for them, voted them wet
and returned to their game. The weather
was fine and warm, and no rain had
fallen for three weeks.
The work eventually under way, the
shed had entered its final week when the
rain came. By now, most of the shearers,
as well as the classer, were overdue at
other sheds and all were eager to get
finished and away. Sheep were driven in
out of drizzling rain, stoutly declared dry,
and shearing continued. The owner help-
lessly watched the wet fleece piling up.
With shearers desperately hard to obtain,
another gang was out of the question,
and he faced the alternative of turning
out the woollies to remain unshorn. He
took them wet. — Eastern (Vic.),
Back to the Country!
Prosperity and security of a country
rest basically on a principle The Bulletin
has been advocating for over half a
century —the “fair go,” or the “square
deal” or “the spirit of Australian mate-
ship.”
The principle cannot survive, let alone
spread, in the big cities, where the man
who wants to be honest is sneered at
generally as “a big mug.” On the job,
workers are Commo-tricked into preying
on the community, not realising that they
are fighting themselves. Off the. job, too
many live in terraced slums or barracked
flats, where there is no possibility of
decent home life and children are not
wanted. Away from home and the job,
there is a jungle fight in trams, trains,
shops and pubs, with no quarter for age
or sex.
We don’t need big cities. Australia is
large enough and empty enough to give
everybody decent living room; there
should be no need for anyone to exist
in piled-up warrens and suffer the other
prisoners’ bad language, domestic smells
and radio racket.
But what is needed most is ruthless
decentralisation —removal of industries
to the country, to centres where the
workers may have all the real amenities
of community life without the degrading
drawbacks of overcrowded cities. In the
country, real social consciousness—the
spirit of “a fair go”—grows naturally.
And there,* children are welcomed, not
forbidden —H. K. W. (N.S.W.).
Roads
The use of primitive road-making
methods seems to be Australia-wide and
not limited to odd corners, as suggested
by “Bughouse” (B. 19/11/’47). With
this equipment goes the appropriate men-
tality among those responsible for up-
keep.
Melbourne roads, particularly in the
inner suburbs, are in a dangerous con-
dition. I bounce an Austin Seven into
the city. That I have so far not bounced
into a pedestrian or another vehicle is
pure luck.
During Australia’s war necessary roads
were made rapidly by modern machinery ;
but now that seems to have passed from
human ken. Within six weeks of the
war ending county councils in England
were overhauling their roads, and it was
a fairly common sight to see pre-war-
type laborers, complete with bowyangs,
operating American road-making equip-
ment as though born to it. So in labor-
starved England it is considered necessary
to maintain roads in a safe condition,
whereas here it is not.
Some mathematically-minded person
might work out the exact correlation be-
tween the number of road accidents and
the amount per mile per annum spent on
road repair. His result would, I think,
prove that road accidents are to some
extent caused by poor roads. —Kan-
GUHREC (Vic.).
Root of the Matter
Nearly every office in Navy, Army and
Air Force H.Q. at Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne, has two or three phones per
room—a relic of the war days when they
did ring. In one R.A.N. office a lieu-
tenant, a civilian (male) and two young
girls (about 16) each have their own
phone and individual extension. The
Air Force is just as bad. One squadron-
leader has three separate phones in front
of him. As I went to the other offices I
found the same abundance of phones—
many hardly ever used. I put the case to
the G.P.O. wallah who is handling my
application for a telephone. He claimed
the departments at Vic. Barracks were
essential for Australia’s security and
needed plenty of phones. Wailin’
Willie (Vic.).
I thought that the N. S. Wales Minister
for No Building Materials had issued an
order that no brick fences were to be
built around cottages, yet travelling in a
suburban train last week I counted 20
front fences being erected with first-
quality bricks. — Simple Simon (N.S.W.).
Mr. Ward said that if a ballot were
taken among all trading-bank officers the
majority would support nationalisation.
Such a ballot, taken in Newcastle,
resulted in only two of 165 employees
voting in support of nationalisation.
There is no reason why the bank officers
elsewhere should think differently from
those in Newcastle —in fact, one might
expect the industrial surroundings of
Newcastle to influence opinion in favor
of nationalisation. Further, the majority
of Commonwealth Bank officers oppose
nationalisation —they are likely to be
be swamped by the influx of trading-bank
officers while competition for positions in
the fewer branches under nationalisation
would be severe. —G. F. (N.S.W.),
In 1946 the nine trading banks in Aus-
tralia earned a profit of £2.8 million out
of a total national income of £l2OO mil-
lion. In other words, of all the income
earned by the entire country the trading
banks’ proportion was only .23 per cent.
Of that £2.8 million slightly less than £1
million went to shareholders abroad,
mainly in Britain. An income of £2.8
million from a capital of £7O million is
well below that earned by most other
businesses, and is a very moderate return
to those who helped to provide capital
for Australian development.— See Kay
Gee (Tas.).
“Jaques” (B. 26 /11 / ’47) says “if the
second, third or fourth attempt shows the
criminal to have no inclination to become
a normal member of society then some-
thing drastic should be done.” That line
of reasoning won’t work, unfortunately,
because bashers, robbers, sex offenders,
forgers, etc., can do too much harm
while experiments and attempts are being
made to place them on a different foot-
ing in society. Meanwhile the innocent
public suffers. Crime is on the increase
for various reasons, and the one means of
checking It is the inauguration of more
severe punishment, tempered with mercy,
of course, but not to the extent of foolish-
ness Some types only understand force.
—C, B. M. (N.S.W.).


i%neand?
Jne smccikesi
x
//
sffwcihesi chinks 'ijcyfm mei
***** MARTINI (DRY)
. - r Dash ol Bitters
stir Ido not = ha^,*'*Hll C with e D.y
with one cubage-
r\
?»
Ot
X
r
m
W.
m
li
m
vr
i
c
at
?
m
n
c m
i , J OM COLLINS
"°' ??' 'f“" • ■ On. (easpcron Sugar
Tall glass and Crushed l te
2 ounces Gilbeys Gin
Fill with Dry Ginoer
:
P
r
ORANGE KISS
2 parts Gilbey s Gin
One and a hall parts Orange Ju.ce
Hall part Gilbeys Orange Curacao
W
/
&
JULEP
' f'n Hall teaspoon Sugar
2 ounces Gilbey s6ini. • • Q us hed Ice
2 4 sprigs HM M- s“ nd u n,U
Put in tall glassy of rum or
tandy Add mint. Serve with straws
sf
sOl^
ftVO S
G\n
c
m
no
Ocang c
©on
On®
ao
vcasv
Vva^
c,\Ta'°
\.e'*
one
WHITE LADY
Quarter Lemon Juice
Quarter Gilbey* s White Curacao
Hall Gilbey s Gm
\c®
\n\c®
C V®
O®
t^e
\Vx
$®
V®
well
SnQ a '
Shake
o°**
veasy
G\^
uvn
One
\©o9
G\V° e ’
Ve*e°,
\V\
nnce*
vi'
on®
w®
Vvatt
s®
an®
\n\ce
v ta \o
\C®
One
ob®
aO
V.®
o o®
6\w
\b
OcV
wv
\a ss
Cl*
Co
Cob,
Ice
i • One
*«d oi *** Gil
c.i, Temon
F///
cuf
Spiral
*ith
Form
r Y
Gin
9er
A GUIDE TO GOOD MIXING
Cocktails by Gilbey's,” a FREE booklet
that tells how to mix cocktails and how
and when to serve them. Write for your
copy to W. & A. Gilbey Ltd., 33 Rosslyn
Street, West Melbourne, Victoria.
>'V>
OH >l,
&
ff
1>
m
m
K
M >i
made wUh Qiiimxscfceutee
It's not enough merely to mix a cocktail according
to the recipe. It takes the 'GilbeyV touch to bring
out the delicate tang of every ingredient.. The recipe
may say gin' - but you're a good mixer if you -
JOcrii say^m*saif
(iILBEYS
T H 6 WORL3s STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED
6 36W
