

The Home of Seppelt... producers of
GREAT WESTERN Spa ruling Wines
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin.” Vol. 68—No. 3522
Wednesday, August 13, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LIMERICK’S HISTORIC TREATY STONE COMMEMORATES OCTOBER 3, 1691
■JVTEAR the Thomand Bridge in the town of Limerick, Ireland,
~ stands this stone on which was signed the treaty which marked
the conclusion of local hostilities that had culminated in the siege
of Limerick by William 111. The siege ended on October 3, 1691, in
accordance with this treaty by which it was “agreed that all arms,
property and estates should be restored, all attainders annulled,
all outlawries reversed, that no oath but that of allegiance should
be required, that the Irish Roman Catholics should be free in the
exercise of their religion and that all who wished should be free to
emigrate to France.” Patrick Sarsfield, who had ably conducted
the defence of Limerick, returned to France when the treaty was
signed, but was mortally wounded at the Battle of Neerwinden.
In 1695 the Treaty of Limerick was annulled by the Irish Parlia-
ment, but the old “Treaty Stone” has been preserved in memory
of Sarsfield’s courageous defence.


Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, withovt , obligation, your Hew Free
>oklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, mi
dvertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
, y Name
p Address
SB. 247 AGE
SHAKESPEARE HEAD RELEASES
New Novels
CORNERSTONE
By Dorothy M. Catts. An absorbing
romance from the drama-packed pages
of Australia’s history 8/6
HIGH RIVER
By Nourma Handford. You’ll live the
joys, sorrows, hardships and triumphs
at High River Farm 8/6
DADDY SOWED A WIND!
By Cynthia Reed. An analysis of the
inner secrets of a woman’s mind, 8/6
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty. Ltd.
Central House, Eittle Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
BENDIGO MELODRAMA.
If a book-reviewer could be divide
into three persons (as, with the maximum
of bloodshed, many would desire)
would be possible to approach lame
Devaney’s Washdirt (Georgian Horn
from three different points of view.
First, it could be regarded simply
a history, though in fictional form,. o:
the colorful period of the Bendigo gold
rushes in the Roaring Fifties. M
Devaney has obviously read his author
ties, and he recreates the Bendigo seen
with fidelity and spirit:
The Bendigo Valley lay below him like
an immense shallow saucer, dotted every-
where with thousands of small white tents,
the whole of it turned up into heaps of
yellow clay and literally honeycombed with
holes, about which the digger population
teemed, their red or blue shirts moving
hither and thither, their trousers as yellow
as the clay itself. Puddling tubs and gold-
cradles were everywhere; the winding line
of the Bendigo Creek to the left was closely
packed for about a mile with cradles, at
each of which stood a digger, often up to
his knees in the yellow water, working the
rocking-handle with one hand and with the
other pouring water into the square hopper
on top by means of a dipper on a long
handle. It was the rocking of these thou-
sands of cradles which had produced the
fdeep murmuring sound now grown to a
continuous roar... .Across on the other
side of the shallow valley to the right rose
a tall, sombre forest of ironbark; and
straight ahead past the crowded flat stood
out conspicuously the pale White Hills,
teeming with tiny forms like a series of
monstrous antbeds.
A writer of Mr. Devaney’s standing
should not say “literally honeycombed’
when he means “metaphorically honey
combed,” but that is a trifle. This one
paragraph is enough to show that the
book will interest all Australians as
piece of history.
From a second point of view Wash
dirt could be regarded as a “romance’
as distinct from a realistic novel. From
the great Walter Scott to the indefatig-
able Jeffrey Farnol it has been customary
to accept a certain amount of moonshine
in historical novels. Scott had some
trouble with his heroes and heroines
who, if seldom excessively improbable
were oftep dummies'. Later writers have
gone in for what are called “costume”
or “Wardour-street” historical novels in
which every character may be larger
than life or utterly incredible, and it is
not usual to look too closely at these
figures stuffed with straw. They are ac-
cepted as a literary convention.
When Washdirt is looked at in this
way there are again no complaints. It
is a lively romance, full of love, adven-
ture and villainy, and it would make a
good film.
If the seduction of village maidens is
presented as the most damning proof of
villainy, the victims (in spite of the fact
that two of them make happy marriages)
being instantly “ruined”; if a little child
never does anything naughty, says things
such as “Dood morning, ev’ybody; I’ve
had a lub’y ’teep” and threatens, to
everyone’s unbounded delight, to “ting a
tong” ; if the villain’s conversation con-
sists chiefly of the word “Pah!” some-
times followed by “You canaille!” or
“You boors!” and if the plot as a whole
depends upon which of two unreal men
shall marry an unreal girl, none of these
extravagances need deter the reader of
conventional historical romances.
There is crime, there are fortunes won
and lost, there is much buffeting and
confounding of villains, there is a really
good fight between a diminutive good
character and a large bad character, there
is some fun in the minor people and
there is sentiment by the bucketful:
If some recording angel felt a tear gather
as he looked down with infinite compassion
on that little group by the cabin fire, surely
the tear fell when Denny lifted his head
and looked from one to the other with
understanding in his eyes.
There remains the third approach to
Washdirt: which is to judge it as a
realistic novel, asking for plausibility of
character and probability of action.
Now, if Mr. Devaney has ever been a
small boy he will recall that little girls,
though charming, squeal, pull each
other’s hair and tell tales; and little girls)
who never say anything except such
things as “Go’s a nice lady! I’ll dib ’oo
a tiss” are not real little girls. Then,
again, it would occur to a realistic
novelist that when poor Jen Dallaway,
having arrived in Melbourne with her
fatherless child, is everywhere refused
employment because “people looked
openly at her hand for a ring and then
churlishly into her eyes,” she might be
able to save herself a lot of bother by
buying a cheap wedding ring.
Again, a man who has been in Bendigo
for a month would surely meet the
Bendigo mosquitoes on his first night,
not his fortieth. And again, a villain in-
tending to shoot another villain would
surely be wise to do it swiftly instead of
giving a plain warning which allows his
intended victim to shoot him instead.
Yet, again, it is not easy to Bfelieve that
Mr. Devaney’s very pleasant comic
cockney would be enraged for days be-
cause ttie villain, doubtless prefacing the
insult with “Pah!” calls him an
“enigma,” which the outraged Sam mis-
takes for “echidna.” And a heroine who
says to a vase of flowers “There, there,
there—mummy loves you!” must be re-
garded as a very doubtful character.
It is not necessary at any time for a
writer to lose his head when confronted
with a small girl; and Robert Graves
has shpwn that, when writing a histori-
cal novel, it is by no means necessary to
assume that, because people lived a
hundred years ago, they were demented.
And so, since no reviewer can remain
divided into three and enjoy his dinner,
one must conclude that Washdirt is in-
teresting as history, lively and readable
as a romance, but, on the whole, to a
reader who prefers human beings in fic-
tion to behave like human beings, disap-
pointing. The novel is* not worthy of
James Devaney, whose very attractive
poetry is based on the meticulous obser-
vation of Nature and whose recent
biography of Shaw Neilson included a
remarkable piece of observation of
human nature.
"Coas t to Coast, 1946."
The 1946 issue of Angus and Robert-
son’s Coast to Coast anthology of Aus-
tralian short stories has been edited by
M. Barnard Eldershaw. The stories are:
“You Aim to Enjoy Them,” by Olaf
Ruhen. Concerned with the readjust-
ment of a returned airman; its strength
and its attraction lie in its descriptions of
fishing and fishermen in New Zealand.
“The Good Season,” by Frank Dalby
Davison. An extract from the novel
Dusty, tljp mating of a dingo bitch with a
kelpie. The chapter reads well in short-
story form, moving to a good climax
when the dingo decides to return to the
wilds and, having no further use for the
unfortunate bridegroom, kills him.
“The Three Jolly Foxes,” by Douglas
Stewart. A picture of a scoundrelly
storekeeper, originally published in The
Bulletin.
“The Children’s Faces,” by Gavin Casey.
Casey, as usual, is powerful, colloquial
and gloomy. A returned soldier, suffer-
ing from neurosis, watches the children
of a small town, sees how much like their
parents they are (the mechanism is a bit
strained here) and then, as they begin to
quarrel, falls in horror from his vantage-
point on the roof. It is very well done,
but the soldier is not an individual
character; merely, once again, the
familiar Casey Hero who can’t bear the
cruelty of life.
“Cheap Labor,” by E. O. Schlunke.
Another delighted and delightful observa-
tion of Italian prisoners-of-war.
“Journey to Clunes,” by Ted Mayman.
Mayman, writing colloquially in the first-
person, is clearly a follower of Gavin
Casey, more cheerful but not so power-
ful. He seems hardly ready for in-
clusion in Coast to Coast, especially as
his story, about a blinded soldier recover-
ing his balance of mind, follows essen-
tially the same pattern as both “You Aim
to Enjoy Them” and “The Children’s
Faces.”
. “The House to Themselves,” by Ruth
Park. A likeable little comedy about
two small girls and a ferocious bottle-oh ;
resembling, in its humorous realism, some
of Alan Marshall’s stories about children.
“To a Country Town,” by Judah
Waten. This story, about Russian Jewish
immigrants in an Australian country
town —surely going a long way back in
time, for everybody speaks of being
oppressed by the Czar —makes an in-
teresting contrast to “Cheap Labor.”
Schlunke sees his foreigners from the out-
side, as it were, observing them —though
not without sympathy—as essentially
comic figures to Australian eyes; comic
and strange. Miss Waten sees her people
from the inside, from the immigrant’s
point of view, with deeper sympathy.
They are comic enough, as well as tragic,
for the writer has an artist’s detachment,
but they are not strange to her; they
are familiar people in a strange land.
“To a Country Town” is a token of the
European enlargement that is likely
enough to come to Australian literature:
ne.w themes, new rhythms, even a new
choice of words, the cosmopolitan flavor
mingled with the Australian.
“Hans and the Bull,” by E. Goll-
schewsky. Miss Gollschewsky’s work is
in the bush tradition, but it is not com-
monplace ; beyond fidelity, it "has poetry
and imagination. There is a danger of
over-poeticising this picture of a half-
witted farmhand’s love for a bull —“They
passed into the shadow of the pine scrub
together, the nfian’s arm resting on the
neck of the bull” —but an eye for humor
ous detail preserves the balance: “Ther
were a few treasures left behind. Hi
seed catalogue. The gun with no hammer
The pearl tiepin he’d found at a dance
But they weren’t important now.”
“The Foal,” by Vance Palmer. A
Ruhen’s story purports to be about
returned airman and is really about fisher
men, so this story is centralised on
small girl but is really about horses
“Suddenly other horses appeared bn th
far side of the fence, their heads helc
high, their manes wind-blown, thei
glittering eyes fastened on the foal,
flurry of excitement spread through
them; they whinnied and snorted, plung
ing off with mad bucks and returning to
look over the fence again.” Though i
is this beautiful picture that will stay
longest in the mind, Vance Palmer draw
the horses skilfully into the girl’s life
and into her dreams, the -dainty foal in
danger from the hooves of the othe
horses, thundering in nightmare, becom
ing an image of her self. It is like
Katherine Mansfield story, small and ex
quisite.
“M isc e 1 laneous Information,” by
Robert Clark. Light comedy about
farmhand with a passion for statistics.
“Absentee,” by Mona Brand. The
modern equivalent of Henry Lawson’s
Little Arvie stories; an impressionistic
sketch of a mill-girl’s escape from work
with sentimentality lurking close beneath
its brittle surface.
“All Through the Night,” by John
Morrison. This story, too, is worth con-
trasting with Judah Waten’s. The refu-
gees in “To a Country Town” are not
portrayed as noble people, but just as
people ; the Australians are not monsters,
but just people. But to the narrator of
“All Through the Night,” the wharfies
loading a ship in Melbourne during the
war are nearly all noble souls, while all
shipowners, ships’ officers and journalists
—especially journalists—are monsters.
“To a Country Town” is a work of art,
“All Through the Night” is marred by
propaganda. Which is a pity, for the
picture of the ship at night is richly and
feelingly painted.
“Wild Red Horses,’’ by Alan Marshall.
Not up to Marshall’s standard. It is the
'first half of a story, in which men at a
timber mill fear they will be trapped by
a bushfire; the second half, in which the
bushfire arrives or doesn’t, is missing.
“The Bunyip of Barney’s Elbow,” by
Brian James t One of the extracts from
“The Cookabundy Chronicles” that were
published in The Bulletin, It con-
tains not only the mysterious “Yahoo”
that makes frightening noises at night,
but the immortal Mrs. McCarthy who hit
her husband on the head with a “yam-
mer.”
“Uncle Tom’s Funeral,” by G. M. Glas-
kin. There is something incomplete
about this story; it is an anecdote or a
fragment of reminiscence. The writer
doesn’t seem to know quite whether it is
a pathetic study of a small boy or a
comedy about his elderly and useless
uncle who, “a nuisance all the time he
was alive but a bigger nuisance when he
was dead,” had to be buried with much
inconvenience in a flood. Uncle Tom
is an amusing character, but there is not
enough of him before he dies. The flood
is convincingly wet, and the anecdote of
the inconvenient burial, has, though in
a much slighter way, something of the
typically Australian and legendary quality
of Brian James’s story.
“The Load of Wood,” by Ross Frank-
lyn. A large belligerent relief-worker in
the Depression who, after various
threatening gestures, turns out to have a
heart of gold and supplies all his friends
with stolen firewood. Sometimes it seems
like a fairy story; sometimes like a true
comedy of character; and on the whole
like a pleasing glimpse of a man about
whom there is much more to be told. The
stealing of the timber has all the repre-
hensible charm of a poaching story.
“The Big Red Fish,” by J. K. Osborne.
A countryman on holiday at the seaside
goes fishing in a launch because his small
son wants him to catch a snapper.
Osborne hasn’t gone deeply into the
countryman’s character, for he would
probably go fishing out of parental vanity
(and a desire to go fishing) as well as
out of tenderness for his offspring ; but
both the fishing and the seasickness are
thoroughly convincing.
“The Joey,” by J. D. Woods. A story
with some resemblance to “The Foal,”
but with the difference that Woods pre-
sents an older girl whose pet kangaroo
joey is not so much an image of her-
self as of everything—man, child, or the
whole excitement of life —she would like
to embrace. An essentially delicate story
m a setting harsh, vital and slatteralT
The Bleeding of Irish O’BamonA
J. Sweeney. An amiable trifle in
manner of Damon Runyon, reprii
from Under the Atebrin Moon I
Barnard and Miss Eldershaw must suS
have been not merely nodding but f
asleep when it crept into Coast to Coat,
“Indians Have Special Eyesight” k.-
Dal Stivens. There is a grin of two i
a Dal Stivens story these days, but Z
really need to be an Indian with spell
eyesight to see the point of it. Stive"
seems to be trying so hard to write ■
story which isn’t a story that one of these
years he will be represented in Coast m
Coast by a very well-written blank page
“As Good as Ever He Was,” by Dor
Edwards. Quarrymen fighting for a bar
maid. It shows that Don Edwards is
as good as ever he was but it does not
as did his novel recently serialised hj
“S.M. Herald,” or some of his more-
recent stories in The Bulletin, show
variety of characterisation.
“Always There Is One,” by Art Haus-
ler. If all the noble workmen who nobly
refuse to work in this issue of Coast to
Coast were laid end to end they could
never be bothered to get up again. There
are Mona Brand’s mill-girl, Ross Frank-
lyn’s relief-worker, John Morrison’s
wharfies (who, though they perform
prodigies for the “war effort,” are con-
tinually being hampered by wicked
bosses); there are Alan Marshall’s
timber-workers who say they fight bush-
fires for the boss only because they “lost
their guts” in the Depression; and now
there are Art Hausler’s gallant peanut-
threshers who, invited by a wicked boss
to work in a wind that blows the dirt
into their eyes, walk nobly off the job. Re-
garded simply as literature, the story has
its attractions. Though the use of
“nomad” in place of “bagman,” “travel-
ler,” “battler” or “swaggie” is over-
done, Hausler sometimes gets a good
effect by using the language in an un-
familiar way. And, since it is certainly
conceivable that there is a wicked pea-
nut-farmer in Australia and even that
there may be a company of travelling
peanut-threshers of whom all except one
are without blemish, the story, expanded,
might prove to be art instead of propa-
ganda. It has a moment of drama when
the men refuse to work ; but there is no
genuine characterisation nor any attempt
to depict, as well as the drama of work-
men risking their jobs, the drama of one
man—the bold, bad peanut-farmer—
standing against a mob. On the whole,
therefore, a slight little item.
“End of a War,” by Gavin Casey. As
powerful and gloomy as ever, Casey is
allowed to end the book, the war and
the world with one soldier losing his
girl and another fearing the same catas-
trophe and still more afraid of the
“vaguely menacing peace-time”: “He felt
very lonely and unhappy under his net
until the worry wore him out, too, and he
went to sleep.”
Those, then, are the stories; a mixed
lot. Looking back over them, it is to be
noticed that there is nothing that stands
out as prominently as did Casey’s “Short
Shift Saturday” in the first issue of the
anthology, or Frank Dalby Davison’s
“The Road to Yesterday” in another.
Long stories are hard to find. But it
should not have been so hard to find
more stories that, like “The Bunyip of
Barney’s Elbow,” do tell an interesting
story. There are too many sketches in
this issue, too much that is slight, ragged
or unfinished; there is some repetition
of themes ; the war stories, Olaf Ruhen’s
excepted, aim at an effect of pathos
rather than the revelation of character
under the fierce test of battle; there is
too much propaganda; and there are
some astonishing omissions. The book
is not so much a collection of the year’s
best stories as a sociological survey of
Australia.
Nevertheless, there are enough good
stories for the anthology to serve its
original purpose well enough. Coast to
Coast is a valuable institution and the
reading public should support it. It is
only to be hoped that, inspired by Coast
to Coast, 1946, the editor chosen for
Coast to Coast, 1947 does not nobly
refuse to edit it or the printers nobly
refuse to print it or, if a fire breaks out
in the bookseller’s, the staff and the fire-
brigade nobly refuse to save the edition.


WE'VE HAD A BIRTHDAY! AND WE ARE PROUD TO ADMIT OUR AGE—I 24 YEARS OF SERVICE!
W
Lri
w
IKJ
W
■■
:
I A' 1
(
(f
K
i h
INDIA
mmm
i
A
A Wew
°i th
*°rn?rr VcrtB - An
ma , s . (The shearing
s “' uh 1
J machines a
C ‘S. re Spo
fawoj
otA :
y s
¥ %
>v. &
¥ X
0/
2.—A general view of loom sheds with partly finished mats
in foreground*
m
r l /
/
u r
C't
SS 5
sS?
...
D
as?
r
\
m
This is how the romance of India is woven into the beautiful Coir Rugs and
Matting which enhance the beauty of our homes. The finest
Coir Mats come from the Province of Travan Core in Southern India
and it is there that coconuts are gathered and soaked in
soapy water; after this process, they are brought out and the fibre pulled
from the husks by natives. The l fibre is then put back into the soapy
water and soaked. Next, the fibre is brought out and beaten
by the natives, then spun on spinning wheels. The fibre is woven and beaten
by the men and spun by the women. After it is spun, the
fibre is dyed and woven into mgs or matting. When the fibre is spun,
some of the yarn is sent to England and some to Brussels. But for
this small quantity, all is woven in India. The reason why Coir Mats are
mad© in this Province of Travan Core is because the waters surrounding
this Province are the only waters suitable for soaking the fibre.
Coir Rugs in all sizes. Colourful and Gay
2 feet x 4 feet, price 9/11 each in Rust and Brown
3 feet x 6 feet, price 19/11 each in Green and Brown
5 feet x 8 feet, price 54/- each in Rust and Blue
6 feet x 9 feet, price 74/4 each ’.. in Grey and Blue
Mourzouk Coir Rugs
HEAVY WOVEN IN A VARIETY OF COLOURS
In Blue Grey and Rust, Brown and Rust,
Green, Fawn and Rust.
6 feet x 3 feet 49/8 each
5 feet x 8 feet 110/4 each
6 feet x 9 feet .149/- each
8 feet x 10 feet 206/9 each
Coir Mats (plain)
27 inches xl6 inches .. 18/2
30 inches xlB inches .. 22/8
33 inches x2O inches .. 27/9
Coir Mats (coloured)
27 inches xl6 inches .. 12/3
30 inches xlB inches .. 15/4
• COIR MATTING—FOURTH FLOOR
Coir Matting
IN A VARIETY OF COLOURS
\
36 inches, price 10/7 yd.
45 inches, price 13/3 yd.
UfttAc** mute/eA<)
'PHONE: M 2401. DAY AND NIGHT W BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


GIBRALTAR . .
Impregnable stronghold
on the South Coast of
Spain and long recog-
nised as a symbol of
enduring strength. Brit-
ish guardian of the
Mediterranean since
1704 . . ,
•v
■
my
M mm
V ■ Ml
ij
SyM B OL OF
Strength
Prß
Because of it’s great tensile strength,
extreme rigidity and ability to give
many years of serviceable life,
LYSAGHT’S ORB GALVANIZED
IRON has become widely recognised
as a symbol of enduring strength and
long life. Freely specified by archi-
tects and builders everywhere it cuts
construction costs, provides 100%
protection against fire and once in
position is fully permanent.
LYSSGHT’S
ŵ
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Lid.
ẁ
ẃ
You'll always
get the best
from the
PLUME
wsPSPRWWje^
IT*
il
S i
JfACUUM Oil
company pint.
r
pump
\
\
listen each week to
“OPERA FOR THE PEOPLE
Australia’s finest
Radio Entertainment
Today, Plume is the best motor spirit you can buy. And as soon
as world conditions permit, the Plume Pump will lead in serving
the highest quality motor spirits, made by revolutionary methods
developed by the world’s largest research staff. So form the
habit now of going to the Plume Pump, where you’ll always get
the best motor spirit
VACUUM
duality product
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
In Australia]
P 474
ẅ
w
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
ALL CHEMISTS
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
To buy copies of Australia Twice Traversed
and Geographic Travels in Central Australia
by Giles. —4071.
Overseer (N.S.W.), 21 years’ experience all
classes station work, including Merino studs,
five years A.I.F., G.P.S. education, excellent
refs., seeks position.—4070.
Words and author of quotation beginning
“Behold the Governor! Down, slave, upon
thy knees and beg for mercy.”—^4068.
To buy, pxivate book collections, preferably
good-quality reading matter; fiction, mystery
and crime, travel, biography, children’s books.
—4069.
To communicate with Gunner McThomas
(“Esan”), author of poem “New Guinea
Nocturne,” published in THE Bulletin of
December 22, 1943. —4067.
Information Sought.
(1) How is the I.Q. rating of an individual
determined? (2) What are the optimum ratings
for inferior, normal and superior? (3) Is any
literature available on the sub feet?
(1) The I.Q. rating of an individual is de-
termined by a scale of carefully-standardised
tests, graduated according to age, the Stanford
Revision of the Binet scale being the best
known. The norm, of performance on these
tests has been calculated by the statistical
method. The individual’s score on the tests is
compared with the standard performance. His
performance may be below, equal to, or above
the norm for his age, so that he may be
inferior, normal or superior in intelligence. (2)
Roughly ratings below an I.Q. of 70 would
represent mental deficiency; between 70 and
about 95, dullness; between 95 and 110, normal
intelligence; between 110 and 125, superior; and
over 125, very ..superior. (3) Terman’s The
Measurement of Intelligence; Pintner and Pat-
terson’s A Scale of Performance Tests, and
Freeman’s Mental Tests, Their History and
Principles and Applications.
* * * *
(1) Could tobacco be grown in Western
Queensland? (2) Where can I get pamphlets
on the subject? (3) Must tobacco-growers be
registered ?
(1) It is doubtful whether an acceptable
smoking tobacco could be produced in the
hot, dry climate of Western Queensland. With
irrigation there is no doubt that tobacco would
grow, but the dry atmospheric conditions ex-
perienced would, it is thought, produce a very
brittle leaf which may not be acceptable to
manufacturers, or if acceptable at all at a
price which may not prove remunerative to the
grower. (2) pie Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock issues an excellent pub-
lication on flue-cured tobacco. (3) It is neces-
sary for all tobacco-growers in Queensland to
be registered under the Tobacco Industry Pro-
tection Act of 1933. Applications can be
obtained through the head office of the Agri-
cultural Department, Brisbane. 5
* * * *
Are there any purebred Arab mares and
stallions in Australia? Does the Arab grow
very tall and would 14.2 be an average height?
There are purebred Arabs in Australia, but
not in any great number. The stallions are
generally used for crossing with other breeds
Demand is far in excess of supply. The Arab is
somewhat taller than a thoroughbred, but the
average would be rather more than 14.2, which
is generally recognised as the limit of pony
height. Probably 14.3 would be a better figure.
* * * *
A young couple want to use my garage as a
room to live in. Can I let it to them for this
purpose?
Not without committing a breach of theN.S.W.
Local Government Act. It is an offence to
occupy or use a building erected for any pur-
pose other than residential, for residential
purposes without obtaining the prior consent
of the local council. You would be liable if
you allowed it to be so used.
* * * *
(I) Did Jack Haines survive his fight
with Ambrose Palmer? (2) How many times
did Ambrose Palmer beat Ron Richards? (3)
How many times did Les Darcy meet Fritz
Holland?
(1) Haines was taken to hospital suffering
from cerebral haemorrhage, but recovered and is
living in Sydney. (2) Palmer defeated Richards
in all four contests they had. (3) Les Darcy and
Fritz Holland fought four times, for two wins
each,
* * * *
How long has Australian Tommy Burns been
boxing? What is his age, weight, height and
reach, and how many contests has he had?
Is Burns his real name, and what championships
does he hold ?
Burns began boxing at Lismore (N.S.W.) late
in 1939. Born at Mullumbimby (N.S.W.) on
May 19, 1922, Burns weighs 10.7, is sft. 7|in.
tall, and has a reach of Of 24 minor
and 35 important contests Burns has had, he
was beaten three times (by Lisle Law, Vic Pat-
rick and Ronnie James foul), fought five
draws, and won the rest —36 by knockouts.
Burns was baptised Geoffrey Murphy, and holds
the welterweight championship of Australia,
which he won from Hockey Bennell (knockout,
fourth round) on February 3, 1947.
♦ '
Brief Answers.
R.S.: According to modern usage veneer
is simply a thin sheet or layer of wood which
has been cut from a larger flitch or log. At
one time wood veneer was used only for the
purpose of decoration, and was defined as a
thin layer of a more beautiful or valuable
timber for overlaying an inferior one, but the
present-day prevailing use of glued-up veneers
of plain type for constructional purposes de-
mands a broader view E.W.D.: Unable to
locate anyone who performs that particular
class of work in Australia T.E.M.: Assum-
ing the tenant “taken in” is not merely a
lodger or boarder, the sub-letting without the
consent of the landlord would constitute a
ground upon which the landlord could give
notice to quit to both the tenants A.D.N.:
J. H. Smyth Pty., Ltd., 114 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, can supply you with a stamp catalogue
issued by Whitfield King and Cos. for 30s.
registered, post free M.T.: An Australian
Universities’ Rugby Union team toured Japan
in 1934. Nine matches were played, four being
won, four lost and one drawn. In the two
matches against a Jap rep. team, Uni. won the
first by 18-8, and lost the second by 14-9
8.C.: Cheapest and quite satisfactory way to
stain hardwood floor is to mix permanganate
of potash (Condy’s crystals) with hot water
and apply to floor till desired depth of color
is reached, then leave some days to dry. To
polish, mix equal parts of raw linseed oil,
kerosene and turpentine. Apply with brush
and rub up with fluffless rag. Floor should,
of course, be first planed and sandpapered—
R. 8.: (1) Short Bros. (Rochester and Bedford),
Ltd., Rochester, Kent. Agents in Australia;
Allison Gray and Cos., Ltd., 44 Martin-place,
Sydney, and The Fairey Aviation Cos., Ltd.,
Hayes, Middlesex. (2) March 21, 1931. (3)
“The Lady Southern Cross” was a Lockheed
Altair low-wing two-seater monoplane, powered
• by a single-row Pratt and Whitney Wasp radial
engine with a Hamilton variable-pitch propeller.
A.G.H.; Pipe manufacturers in Australia
make their own machinery, and we cannot
advise where you could obtain a chuck. Try
Forest Products Division, C.5.1.R., 69 Yarra
Bank-road, South Melbourne, for a description.
dilute nitric acid solution, say 5 p.c., followed
by rinsing with water. Write Forest Products
Division, C.5.1.R., 69 Yarra Bank-road,
South Melbourne, for advice, giving details
of borer attack... .F.S.: We have posted
an extract on the subject from Cement,
Limes and Plasters, by E. C. Eckel.
J.G.H.: Get in touch with Hollis Hopkins
and Cos., Townsville, agents for 1.C.1. Fabrex.
A.J.S.: Write Bureau of Statistics and
Economics, Sydney A.M.: See Service Page
9/7/’47.


Missing Friend.
JOHN O’DONNELL, now aged (if alive) about 97
years, who left Berkeley, near Wollongong, New
South Wales, about 1904, communicate with under-
mentioned —news to his advantage. Anyone knowing
his movements since then or his present whereabouts
or any other information concerning him, please
advise D’APIOE & D’APICE, Solicitors, Wollongong.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
—ln Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO BARBARA JOAN GREEN formerly of Cressy in
Tasmania (wife of Arthur Percy Green) and RONALD
LORRAINE SEYMOUR formerly of Hobart in Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to you to
appear and answer the charges in the Petition of
ARTHUR PERCY GREEN of Research Farm Cressy
in Tasmania Driver praying for a dissolution of mar-
riage In default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of this publication
an appearance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Mac-
quarie Street Hobart or at the Launceston District
Registry Cameron Street Launceston.— (l.s.) W. H.
VERRALL, District Registrar.
END your RUPTURE
m
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and lit days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY,
READERS’ UNION
* THE BEST BOOK CLUB
READERS' UNION provides:
• A distinguished book every month for only 5/2.
• "Readers’ News,” a high class literary magazine.
• Additional books from time to time.
Because of its huge membership, READERS’
UNION is able to provide outstanding books,
attractively produced, at remarkably low cost.
Membership gives you R.U. selections at a fraction
of the normal price, plus the bright little “Readers 1 ’
News” each month.
Readers’ Union authors include H. G. Wells,
Somerset Maugham, Arnold Haskell, A. E. W.
Mason, Adrian Bell, Lin Yutang, Eve Curie,
Winston Churchill, J. B. Priestley, Joseph Conrad,
Willa Gather, Aldous Huxley, John Steinbeck,
Hugh Walpole, James Thurber, Stefan Zweig,
H. E. Bates, Freya Stark, Robert Gibbings, etc.
Members introducing new subscribers receive a
Readers’ Union book FREE by way of bonus.
For further information write to
READERS’ UNION
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Blue Gillettes —
sharper than
a surgeon's
scalpel!
The sharpest edges known to science, electrically tempered to glass-
cutting hardness. suilt on sturdy supporting shoulders for extra strength
and longer life. Every blade anchored in its wrapper, to ensure that
the keen cutting edges reach you untouched and undamaged. Only
Gillette, constantly seeking better methods,
can give you such perfection and shave
you so quickly and cleanly.
im
i
m
m
\
m
IS
si
cv<s>
o
M
fA
‘Good Mor *
• - • ,
begin with Gillette
ẁ
rf«J/SS7
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
xr , ~ r/ nn ihp MS No liability is undertaken' re contributions voluntarily
N will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
T.S.: You seem to just ramble where your
pen will take you M.O’R.: Slick, but P
fully unreal C. 8.: Failed to find anything
along that track K.S.: “The Purple Finger
won’t play any tune on our cash register....
A.W.M.: “Problems of a Bachelor Girl made
heavy reading O.McL.: “You 11 agree that
this is a strange story.” Too strange f° r u .
Bellerive: We found your friend a tas-
cinating fellow;
... .T.F.: You’ve been reading J. M. Barrie
lately, haven’t you? P.J.: When we last
listened George was still growling in the w.p.b.
R.M.C.: No payment for “Payment m
Full” H.D.: No warmth in your “Tropic
Noon” G.P.: “Birthmark” gets a black
mark .W.W.: Idea threadbare J.F.T. :
Anything of that length must be superlatively
g00d... .W. 8.: Spotted the end on the second
page... .D.F.: Same old pub crawlers, same
old pub crawl... .C.L.R.: Not enthusiastic
about the bloke who spent the night in a
park clad in his pyjamas G.W.; We heaved
a sigh of relief when we learned that Richard
got home safe with his cargo of beer....
T. : Apart from the argument between the
tug-boat skipper and the water-policeman there’s
nothing in it S.A.: As tedious as the average
radio serial N.J.8.: Gently counted out.
. ...C.F.: Speaks, but says little K.J.:
Thanks for promising to have the next atrocity
typed E.V.: No place for sentimental stories
about separated couples and the angel child
who reunites them... .W.H.C.: Don’t fancy
that sample ; try something more in our* line.
.... J.D.: Creditable for a first attempt, but it
is far too long A.P.: Wireless in a saloon
bar is hardly a novelty in 1947....T.R.: Old
chaps have been saying things like that about
the young ’uns since Adam began to creak at
the joints 0.5.: Can’t spare any confetti at
that wedding L.G.: “Enclosed please find a
rough story.” Same to you FI.W.: You’ve
wasted enough blood for a small war....
H.J.A.; While we can’t quite swallow it, there’s
merit in the telling... .C.H.W.: The melo-
drama is too thick... .M.C.; Get over that
airy-fairy complex and lash out with some
feeling J.McK.: Had high hopes for the
first five pages, then it fell to pieces C.T.:
A frail little effort D.J.: Try something you
feel and want to say... .L.H.A.: Sorry to
discourage you; but you’d better put your pen
away for a few years MW.: A field that’s
been ploughed too often A.R.D.: Very
well, it. is hopeless 8.5.: That lad speaks
a curious tongue; even dialogue has to sound
feasible K.V.: Would have to double the
size of the paper before there would be space
for it W.McD.: Rejected; held pending
receipt of name and address R.S.: Capital
theme, feebly treated S.C.T.: “The Old
Mare” turned out to grass F.F.: Can’t get
excited over the fact that the barmaid didn’t
know how to pronounce “gondola” P.A.:
Why don’t you write about the things you know
about? It’s the intimate touch that does the
trick A. 8.: The place to answer a con-
troversial article is in the paper that published
U. : Ancient plot and humdrum style.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. 8.: Gag eligible for the old-age pension.
V.S.: “Stayed up until midnight finishing
it.” Never do it again G.M.: Bright idep.
villainously handled J.J.: You know very
little about cow-bails and less about art
A.C.: Colored picture of “Sunset on the
Darling.” No, thank you R.G.: Specimens
show aptitude for black-and-white work, but
the lad needs lessons F.R.: That drunk is
sleeping it off in the basket H. 8.: Deter-
mination to draw only horizontal lines will get
you nowhere E. 8.: Why those blots and
smudges? K.A.: Is that infant prodigy still
thumping at the piano? W.W.C.: Heads
passable, bodies unutterable B.B.: Home-
coming drunk will have to find another excuse
when he reaches you C.0’8.: Artistically,
you’re all at sea T.T.: Try us with smarter
gags and don’t use mental defectives as sub-
jects P.W.: Put more life into them
A.H.: Very juvenile... .W.McN.: Room for
improvement... .8.T.: All old friends —some of
them have been visiting us for years R.F.:
Encourage the lad to draw from memory; can’t
judge from imitative efforts sent... .D.E.: Not
a dog’s chance C.N.S.: Linework resembles
tracks of a runaway tramcar R.P.: Like
your sense of humor; can’t say the same for
your drawings F.D.: Your pen runs away
with y0u,...1.M.: You belong to the prickly-
pear school D.J.D.: Did your fowls walk
over the paper? C.M.T.: Let us know when
you’re celebrating again at Brewarrina and we’ll
pay you a visit... .G.R.; Microscopic silhouette
didn’t excite W.R.P.: It wore out its
welcome long ago.,. .J.S.C.: Thanks for the
half dozen, but one would have been more than
sufficient R.M.: Still in the infant class
J.F.G.: It has been both bellowed and
whispered in our ear before... .A.T.: You’re
still an untidy scratcher.
THE ANTICS OF A FROG.
ŵ


MR TRACEY
RELAXES
By GEOFF BINGHAM
MR. Tracey believes he hears a
singing, a high dreamy note of
music, a gentle song, but he is
not sure, for there is a scraping
of wheels as a dray draws near, and he
peers, does Mr. Tracey, over his steel-
rimmed spectacles, his eyebrows' neces-
sarily raising, and his astonishment show-
ing mildly on his placid features..
We are coming, Mister Tracey.
We are coming with our veges.
Oh, buy some, Mr, Tracey,
If you will.
To be sure, it is young Terry, and he
is seated, high amongst pumpkin and
squash, snap jacks and turnips, sweet
com and a bulging sack of peas. Mr.
Tracey finds it is necessary, still, to peer
over the spectacles, but he is sure, now,
of what he sees.
“Bless me,” he says. “If it isn’t young
Hickey.”
“That’s right, now, Mister Tracey,”
says Terry Hickey, brightly, approvingly,
as though he was sure Mr. Tracey
wouldn’t fail to recognise him.
“M’m,” says Mr. Tracey, gently.
“We’ve got punkin, skwarsh, yellow
pops, sweetcorn, turnips and peas,” says
Terry Hickey.
“Plenty of them,” says his friend, who
is a small bullet-headed boy.
“M’m,” says Mr. Tracey, again. He
peers at the pumpkins first, turns one
over, taps it, frowns
sternly, and says,
looking up at Terry,
but from beneath
his glasses now.
“That isn’t a very
good pumpkin,
young Terry, It isn’t
ripfe.” There is a cer-
tain amount of
triumph contained in this last uttered
statement. He repeats, firmly, “It isn’t
ripe.”
“Nuh,” says Terry casually, “some oft
them aren’t. Not for keeping, you know.
Got to eat ’em now.”
“AH. yes,” murmurs Mr. Tracey. He
continues to explore. His hand
caresses a turnip, his eyes also, but the
turnips are all right, plump and white, and
for that reason Mr. Tracey seems even
sterner. With triumph, however, he
notices a faulty cob of sweet-corn,
“Cutworms been at this!” he says. He
holds the cob aloft, firmly grasped in
his hand. “Can’t sell that, you know,”
he says.
“No, Mister Tracey,” says Terry
patiently. “You can’t. Not after the
cutworms have been at it.”
“Unless,” says Mr. Tracey brightly,
“you sell it cheap.”
“Of course,” says Terry Hickey, who
knows a thing or two.
“Cheaply, hah, cheaply,” says, Mr.
Tracey, feeling much better. His mild
but careful eye scrutinises the remaining
produce. He snorts softly because all
are unblemished, and when he is begin-
ning to give up, in a sort of disgusted
despair, he sees the pea sack, chock-a-
block, the peas filling out every corner
of the hessian, and spilling prodigally on
to the floor of the cart.
The spilt peas seem excellent enough,
but Mr. Tracey, who also knows a thing
or two, plunges his hand into .the sack’s
green belly, and withdraws a handful of
peas, and proceeds to examine them.
He gives a cry, the nearest, you might
say, that Mr. Tracey could come to a
whoop. “See,” he says, drawing himself
up so that he might shoulder, almost,
against Terry. “See,” he points out.
“Brown, wet. Peas no good like that.”
Terry nods. “Have to be eaten straight
away, eh, Mr. Tracey?” he says, and Mr.
Tracey does not seem to hear him, so
concerned he is with the sweated peas.
“Mind you,” he says to Terry after a
while, looking down at the peas in a
sort of judicial manner, but resolved,
nevertheless, to be as fair as possible,
having regard to all circumstances of the
case. “I think they would be all right
if you cooked them immediately,”
“Cooked them immediately,” repeats
Terry absently. Reins in hand, he is
staring at Mr. Tracey’s cauliflowers, as
once he stared at Mr. Hicken’s good
yellow pears. Mr. Tracey’s cauliflowers
are, you might say, sort of show pieces.
It is not, mind you, that Mr. Tracey
never sells his cauliflowers; he does, but
not to the Wirril Creek residents. He
has larger irons in the fire than tinpot
shows like Terry’s Saturday-morning run.
He sends to the city markets, always has,
always will, if he has any thought to
the matter. That is why Terry gazes
wistfully at the green banners of the
caulies.
“Now my peas, Terry,” says Mr.
Tracey. ‘They are peas.” He coughs,
and adds, apologetically, “or were, I
should say.”
“My word they were peas,” says Terry
enthusiastically. “Now, Mister Tracey,
if you still had the peas you would sell
to me, wouldn’t you, now? I’d give you
a good price, too.”
Mr. Tracey becomes suspicious. He
darts a look at Terry, but Terry has not
changed much, so that he darts a look
to the left, which is up the road, and a
look to the right, which is down the
road, and then he darts looks all about
him, for he fears conspiracy is afoot, and
about to tread upon his heels. He looks
over his glasses, severely, “Terry,” he
says in a firm voice. “I’ve told you
before, and I tell you again, that I w|ll
not sell to you. I can’t imagine myself
selling vegetables to a mere boy— not my
vegetables,” ,
Terry shakes his head sadly. “No, not
your vegetables, Mister Tracey,” he says
slowly. “I could never expect you to
sell to me.” Steeped in sorrow and
humility, he places himself well down the
ladder in the scale of vegetable vendors,
and with such self-deprecation that
Mr. Tracey eyes him sideways, a trifle
suspiciously.
“H’m,” he says, coughing. “Well, I’m
glad you see it that way, Terry.”
Terry, staring ahead, nods. He sees
it that way, all right.
“Mind you, Terry,” says Mr. Tracey
magnanimously, and in a spirit of ex-
planation. “When I say I grow vege-
tables, I mean I grow vegetables. That is
to say I know what I am going to plant,
what I am going to get, and where, when
I harvest those vegetables, I shall send
them. I can’t afford to be —hah —er, tin-
potting about, you might say, selling a
bushel of peas here, and a lettuce there,
and say a cauliflower, well, here.” He
waves an arm about to indicate the
general direction in which he is unable
to do this or that sort of thihg.
“M’m,” says Terry, monosyllabic and
gloomy.,
HE knows, does Terry, that it is not
only what Mr. Tracey’s vegetables
look like —for they are fine vegetables
to be seen —but it is what Mr. Tracey’s
vegetables actually are. Mr. Tracey
knows how to grow things, so careful
is he with his humus, so persistent with
his compost heaps, so very very exact
with his mixture of farmyard manure.
It has been said of Mr. Tracey that
he keeps fowls only for the express
purpose of collecting their droppings, but
this is scarcely to be credited, as Mr.
Tracey is known to “do a good thing”
out of the sale of eggs, and the idea of
Mr. Tracey, waiting, as it were, near a
perch, or within his fowlyard, for the
birds to enlarge his manure pile, and
therefore the quality of his vegetables,
is an image far-fetched.
Nevertheless it is certain that Mr.
Tracey manures his gardens well, and
that no lettuce leaves his vegetable patch
but that it is large, crisp, succulent and
soft. Lettuces for kings are what Mr.
Tracey grows, and the same may be said
of all his vegetables. Onions firm, well
rounded, rich in flavor. Cabbages
hearted so that a finger will not sink in
them, but which, when cooked, are as
white as snow, and as melting. Cauli-
flowers? Ah, yes, the cauliflowers, but
they call for an essay on their own.
From where he is, seated high up in
the dray, Terry sees the white hearts of
Mr. Tracey’s cauliflowers, the creamy
tumbling white hearts, with rills and
waves and ripples of richness.
Terry Hickey shakes his head and
thinks that it is a great pity Mr. Tracey
is firm in his marketing principles, and
that it is a greater pity he will not assist
Terry along the road to prosperity. Terry
can see it, all right, the people thronging
him for the vegetables which they know
come from Mr. Tracey’s garden, but that
cannot be, and as for him thinking it
might be, well, he can hear the folk of
Wirril Creek talking about Mr. Tracey
and his vegetables.
“Him sell vegetables? Not him! Not
old Mister Tracey. Oh, no, not that
chap.”
Or, “Well, he is a strange old boy.
Never goes anywhere. Never sees any-
one. All he does is grow vegetables.”
“Mind you, he does grow good vege-
tables.”
“Oh, yes, he grows good vegetables all
right.”
Mr. Tracey, of course, grows good
vegetables, but he never goes anywhere,
or perhaps, more correctly, does not often
go anywhere. There was the time, of
course, when he did go into Coolbucca,
and came home singing. That was about
two years ago. Then he was a merry
fellow, but it seems he has been more
than repentant for that one brilliant lapse,
and that he has given himself up, even
more, to the growing of vegetables.
Nevertheless his lapse has not been for-
gotten, and his determination to withdraw
into his own shell has heightened con-
trasts and accentuated the memories of
his merriness.
They say that Mr. Tracey buttonholed
the Mayor of Coolbucca, Clyde Reynolds,
and said to him, “I say, old fellow, what
did you do in the war?” And Mr. Clyde
Reynolds, at a
loss to know
which war he
referred too, be-
ing too young
for the First
World War, anc
too busy to be
at the second, had
shaken his head, say-
ing he had done
nothing if it came to
that.
“Thought not!
Thought not! ” Mr.
Tracey had said de-
lightedly. He had
wagged a finger in
the air, directed it
eventually at Mr.
Clyde Reynolds, and had said, losing his
customary and sedate command of
English :
“Y’oughter, Y’oughter’ve, y’know.”
He had left Mr. Reynolds then, and
had gone with a half-hop, and a half-
skip, down the Coolbucca main street,
and he had sung, happily, songs which
showed he had been acquainted with the
First World War, of such fine old vintage
they were, and as he had ridden home
in the bus, right back to Wirril Creek,
he had continued singing, merrily, to him-
self. He had patted Ned, the bus-driver,
on the back, and said that he, Ned, was
a fine fellow, and how well he drove,
which he oughter’ve, of course, seeing
what a fine lot of young fellows and
young women he had on board, and —hah
—if he were young, as—hah—he had
once been, if there had been such a batch
of—hah—young girls as there was this
day, then he would have —hah . . , What-
ever he would have was left to the im-
agination of all, for by this time Mr.
Tracey had disembarked and floundered
to the road, his right hand grasp-
ing an untapped bottle, and his left
waving benevolently at the young people
who had so stirred his memory.
Everyone cheered at this warming sight
of Mr. Tracey, and Mr. Tracey had
raised his hand again, placed the other,
bottle and all, about his waist front, and
bowed, saying all the time, “Quite so.
Quite so.” After which he had retired to
his vegetable farm, dancing and jigging
up the clear red road to his place, singing.
Now, however, if medals were to be
handed out for two years of exemplary
conduct then the first would have to be
hung upon the chest of Mr. Tracey. For
Terry Hickey, however, the remembered
occasion brings a thoughtfulness to his
eyes, and a certain amount of distant hope
to his breast.
11 M Tracey,” he says suddenly.
1v 1 “What did you do before you
grew vegetables?”
Mr. Tracey starts at the question, draws
himself up, and takes a deep breath. He
eyes the youngster shrewdly, but gives
an answer, nevertheless.
“Well,” he says modestly. “I didn’t
always, hah, grow vegetables ”
Tf ri T stares ahead. “Of course not
Mister Tracey,” he says as though any-
one would know that—anyone
Mr. Tracey. He nods,
so- Quite so,” he agrees. “I—
er—hah!” Here he ceases speaking and
fixes his eye, this time suspiciously, upon
Terry. I —er—hah, wonder why you
as k me that, young Terry?” he says.
Well, I wasn’t really interested,” says
Terry, “not really. What I wondered
about was whether you had ever been
to war,”
“Been to war?” echoes Mr. Tracey He
stares highly at Terry Hickey.
“Yes, been to war,” says Terry’s friend
surprisingly articulate. Hitherto he has
crouched quietly amongst the vegetables
content to be as silent and harmless
as they, but a spring has been touched
and Terry’s friend may not remain in-
articulate. He rambles 09.
“I know a cove,” he says, “that was
m New Guinea. Got shot, he did, in both
legs, and both arms Went to get a Jap
he did, and he got shot. None of the
others got shot, though.”
Having imparted this information he
stares at Mr. Tracey, and as Mr. Tracey
is about to speak he suddenly continues.
“He didn’t get shot in no bones, he didn’t!
Got shot through the flesh. Didn’t get
no bones broke, he didn’t so he could
hold his legs and run. He got that Jap
though.”
Again the small fellow ceases, draws
in his breath, and huddles to a vegetable.
Mr. Tracey looks a trifle surprised!
watches the small fellow for fear he may
erupt again, looks over his glasses in the
process and commences.
“Pooh,” he says. “You boys don’t*
know what you are talking about.”
He looks impressively at the uninformed
youths.
“No one does,” he says airily, waving
a hand in the air. “No one.” He bows
apologetically.
“Unless, of course,” he says, “it is
someone who has been to the war.”
He nods and nods to show the truth
of this statement cannot be denied,
“Mind you,” he cautions them. “No
one who has been to the war would
talk about it, not unless they could not—
hah—refrain from talking,”
He gazes absently at Terry, whose blue
eyes are clear and without guile, making
Mr. Tracey feel that this boy, if any,
is entitled to know a bit about what
happened, even before he was born.
“Now in this war,” he says, “no doubt
the men found things bad, hard. No
doubt these little Japs were a tough bunch
of nuts to crack. Not easy, you might
say.”
Terry nods his head, the little fellow
shivers acknowledgment, and Mr. Tracey
expands his chest and continues.
“Neither were the Huns,” he announces
surprisingly ; surprisingly because he has
never visualised himself holding out on
matters of war to two youngsters, or,
for that matter, anyone, but the ice has
been broken, and his reserve of many
years has gone to the winds, and all the
surround of thoughtfulness and mental
secrecy has been dispersed, and he
plunges headlong into narrative and
experience so that he forgets, for the
moment, that he is talking to two boys,
or that he is talking at all, for that
matter.
It is rather as though he is communing
with himself, or even acting as a sort
of commentator upon those strange years,
now long past but to his present mind
near, so clear and factual they are in
detail.
♦
< *'T' ALK about being shot through the
1 legs,” he says. “I remember a
fellow who was shot through both legs,
and got his bones broke —broken, too.
There was no running away for him of
course. We had to go out and get him,
pick him up from No-Man’s Land, with
the shells about us, and some machine-
gun fire too.”
The vegetable boy awakens and says,
“Gee!” which is accompanied by a long
whistle of intaken breath, and Mr. Tracey
o Continued on page 32.)


Built on an ideal of service
ẅ
THE STORY OF ONE YEAR*
On July 2nd, 1946, a selected group of Australia’s finest pilots, chosen
from both existing airlines and the R.A.A.F. for their long flying experience
in both civil and operational spheres, assembled at the first National
Airlines School at Point Cook. The purpose of the School was to set up
a Standard of Ideals ... and build on that standard the finest airline
service for the people of Australia • • . and to staff the service with highly
qualified personnel, imbued with the “spirit of service” both on the
ground and in the air. Here is the record of one year:
July 2nd; First intake of pilots at Point Cook by National Airlines School.
September 9th j First interim service opened between Melbourne and Sydney
(DC-3s); carrying passengers and Royal MaiL
October 7th; Service opened to the public—two daily services between
Melbourne and Sydney and return (including Canberra); one
daily service between Sydney and Brisbane and return.
November 18th; Services opened between Melbourne-Hobart and Melbourne-
Launceston with DC-3 aircraft.
December 2nd; Skymaster service opened between Melbourne-Adelaide-Perth,
thus linking all States in an Australia-wide network.
AND TODAY:
50 services daily are flown over TAA s Australia-wide
interstate network, with as many as 10 flights daily
between some points.
ACHIEVEMENT: By the end of June, 1947, more
than 150,000 passengers have been carried, and over 2,000,000
lbs. freight and mails transported. Such an achievement could
only have been built on an ideal of service faithfully performed.
£
m
f 0
sr
Reservations from TAA Booking Offices or from leading travel agencies
YOUR AIRLINE
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST
People return again and
again to fly with TAA—
"the friendly way**
And TAA brought to you
"One fare for all —
the lowest in the world”
mm
mm
i
wmmii
m
ff
m


“MARS” PLAIN MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
mm
w
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFC. COY. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers
Bridge St., Valley, Brisbane.
Licensed Manufacturers in Old. of
MEEHANITE METALS.
I
ETAVK
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—' Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VlC.—Servian Machine Tools tAust 1
Brunswick, Melbourne; S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide. W.A.—The Western
Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties Ltd
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd. BOMBAY PROVINCE—R S Mehta
& Co.. Ltd., Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co. Ltd.
ttißivnfl&fliMi
BY ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
You are invited to inspect our New and Enlarged
Secondhand Book Department.
, This department comprises many thousands of
secondhand volumes of Travel, Biography, Theology,
Art, Australiana, etc. Also a special selection of
Novels offered at 2/6 per volume,*
If unable to call write for our special novel list and
a copy will be posted to you free of charge.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O. BALLYHOO.
There would appear to be more a
confession of weakness than any evi-
dence of strength in the ballyhooing of
U.N.O.’s “quickest and most positive
action” regarding Indonesia.
The “action” —regarded by Britain,
France and Belgium as of very doubt-
ful legality; an interference in a domes-
tic issue that Australia may one day re-
gret—was, in any case, on the molehill
level to which all U.N.O. “action” is re-
stricted. The only comparable “positive
action” to which U.N.O. so far has
risen was the declaring of Spain a dip-
lomatic leper, its result being to make a
then shaky Franco secure.
In all matters of any size U.N.O. has
been proved over and over utterly im-
potent. So much so that it is now being
widely contended in America that there
must be some change. A main trouble
is abuse of the veto power restricted to
the five permanent members of the
Security Council.
On July 29, the day before Mr. Chifley
“decided” to send the Dutch-Indonesian
issue to U.N.0., Russia used that veto
power for the eleventh time, and it
should have been the last time.
On the other 10 occasions the veto was
at least used without objectionable accom-
paniments. On the last occasion it was
used with insolence and contempt. And
whatever may be thought of the insolence,
the contempt was deserved.
The issue was the U.S. proposal for
establishing a Balkan Border Commission.
As N.Y.‘“Daily News” put it:
The U.N., the Russians objecting, sent over
a special investigating commission to see what
was cooking. This 11-nation commission
prowled around Greece, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria
and Albania for three months. It came back
with a majority report that Greece was being
picked on by its Red satellite neighbors. Two
nations dissented. Keeping their faces straight,
Russia and Poland claimed that it was exactly
the opposite. The three Communist-controlled
neighbors, they said, were being bullied by
Greece.
The vote in U.N.O. was nine to two
in favor of establishing a permanent,
or semi-permanent, frontier watchdog
commission in the Balkans. Then came
the Russian veto.
It brought a “new low” in U.N.O.
futility, but a “new high” in Security
Council acrimonious debate. When the
Soviet delegate was through, British dele-
gate Lawford said:
It is deplorable that we should be sub-
jected, day after day, week after week, month
after month, to this junk about provocations,
lies, noises and repetitions. We are presumed
to be intelligent officials and not a gathering
of illiterates.
As another indication of how things
are actually shaping inside U.N.0., Aus-
tralian delegate Hodgson said:
How glad I am that these meetings are now
open to the press. Previously we have had
to put up with calculated abuse and distortions
of this particular representative of the Soviet
Union for a long time.
These outbursts made no difference.
The meeting closed with the Gromyko
sneer that the Council “could do with a
little rest,” a comment on U.N.O. in-
effectualness.
The issue was one of the most import-
ant on which the veto had been used;
the most important in which the U.S. was
on the receiving end. The one immedi-
ately preceding it—the tenth Soviet veto ;
employed on the very day that U.N.O.
celebrated its first anniversary—was
actually just as important, but on that
occasion Britain was the sufferer, the
issue being Britain’s case against Albania
over that pipsqueak country having mined
British warships W’fh great loss of British
lives.
The other Soviet vetoes were on com-
paratively insignificant issues—four times
regarding Spain, three times concerning
admissions to U.N.0., and once each re-
garding the Syrian and Lebanon case and
the proposal for a commission of investi-
gation in Greece.
The veto on Britain v. Albania was
such a glaring travesty of justice and
everything that U.N.O. is supposed to
stand for that it should have been the
last case. The Balkan issue gets its
special importance both from the U.S.
involvement in it and from the cumulative
effect of all the other vetoes. The Soviet
having got away with all those —and par-
ticularly the grossly impudent tenth veto
—it should have surprised no one when
the Soviet delegate added insolence and
contempt to his last abuse of the power
that has made U.N.O. a comic-strip joke ;
like all comic-strip jokes, one that isn’t
funny.
The contempt was deserved by the rest
of the body for having put up with so
N.Y. “World-Telegran.
RUSSIAN LULLABY.
much from the same quarter for so long,
with a patience indistinguishable from
imbecility. For the veto is only part of
the story of obstructive destruction of
U.N.O. by the Soviet member. The
obstructive tactics have been as success-
fully employed to prevent the setting up
of adequate atomic control, the establish-
ment of an adequate world peace force,
and the world disarmament that would
then have been possible.
The Soviet obstruction under each of
those heads has been too long, tortuous
and dull to recapitulate in detail. A brief
summary of one result can be given as
sufficiently typical—the outcome of over
a year’s futile efforts to decide on an
adequate peace force. First, the dream
(quoting “World Report”):
The most widely acclaimed characteristic
that was to distinguish the United Nations
from the League of Nations was the fact that
the new organisation would have force behind
it. Military resources were to be provided by
special agreements to be negotiated “as soon
as possible” between member States and the
Security Council. They would include armed
forces, assistance and facilities, including rights
of passage, thus enabling the Security Council
to take such action by air, sea or land as it
considered necessary. The framers of the
Charter looked upon the organisation of the
military forces of the U.N. as the first step
toward world security.
So much for the dream ; now the actu-
ality :
If Russia’s “principles” were accepted,' the
military forces available to the U.N. would
consist of only five ground divisions, each of
different nationality. There would be no naval
or air forces worthy of the name, and no
bases for common use. Under such conditions
the forces would be restricted to minor, near-by
land operations—and would have little or no
value beyond such limits.
With Russia obdurate on that ridiculous
proposal, nothing can be done. So there
is no world peace force:
Such is the present status of the once fair
hope that the U.N. would have the military
power to enforce peace.
That is merfely one example. The in-
contestable full story boils down to this:
With few exceptions, problems coming before
U.N.O. have found Russia in a small minority,
always ready to use delaying tactics or exer-
cise her veto power in the Security Council.
Regarding the veto “World Report”
points out: “It Was the understanding at
the San Francisco conference that the
veto right of the Great Powers would be
used sparingly and then only in questions
affecting either the structure of U.N.O.
or matters of vital national concern.”
What has instead happened, George E.
Sokolsky comments in N.Y. “Sun,” is
that “Actually, the veto has served to
make the country that employs it indis-
criminately the master of U.N.0.”
Rather, it might be said to have made
that country the master of the U.N.O.
funeral ceremonies. Its sickness deepen-
ing with every Soviet use of the veto, the
patient is now ready for the embalming
table.
As described here at some length in B.
30/ 7/ ’47, the vast structures for the
housing of U.N.O. are going up in New
York with every accompaniment of
lavishness that can be secured with up to
$140,000,000. They do not require those
30- and 45-story skyscrapers to house a
nullity whose worth could be packed into
half a nutshell. Yet that is how U.N.O.
is now being regarded, by members as
well as in U.S. (and other) general
opinion.
In “Christian Science Monitor”
July 25-af.er the Balkam-coZissio
farce—that newspaper’s U.NO cones
pendent reported that “the world o!
gamsation has put on a philosophical
face and still is hoping for the best but
behind this benign mask there is the
gravest sort of apprehension”;
The question uppermost in all'minds ,V
Can the U.N. survive? There are two
the delegates and Secretariat fear
a shooting war; (2) that if the present situation
continues the U.N. will collapse like a S
of wornout outmoded and discredked
machinery. Few persons in either cateeorv
fear war—at least in the foreseeable future-
but all agree that it is a possibility As to
the second fear, it is felt that the U.N already
is in danger of losing its strongest weanon--
namely, public support. Opinion surveys and
other instruments that sample public sentiment
available here have indicated in the past few
weeks that there has been an alarming decline
in the average citizen’s confidence in the U N
to solve or even alleviate the critical problems
with which the world is confronted.
The “Monitor” correspondent quoted
a delegate as stating:
We have got to admit it; there is a growing
feeling everywhere that the world must look
more and more to powers and agencies out-
side the U.N. for its salvation.
From all this has grown the present
widespread feeling that there must be
some change if U.N.O. is ever to be any
more than a hoax.
An early proposer of such change, Pro-
fessor Wm. Howard Doughty, in a N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” letter, saw the choice
as “between allowing the world to be-
come an armed camp—a camp armed
with atogiic bombs and other no less
lethal weapons—or the creation of a new
or substitute U.N. exclusive of Russia
and its satellite Balkan States or other
dependencies.” Typical of the many
others taking up the theme, Edgar Ansel
Mowrer suggested in N.Y. “Post”
“transforming the U.N. (or part of it)
into a sort of vast federation open to all
countries that cared to come in. This,”
Mowrer added, “is the policy of the
United World Federalists and of the
Federation of Atomic Scientists.” As
another typical example, “World Re-
port” ;
An alternative course, if Russia' should con-
tinue indefinitely to obstruct the operation and
development of the U.N., would involve with-
drawal of non-Soviet Powers from the U.N.
and the construction of a new organisation
from which the Soviet States would be excluded
until they were ready to co-operate. It would
have all the advantages of being a straight-
forward organisation of the non-Soviet States,
reluctantly undertaken, because* of Russia, in
order to handle their own problems, and to
defend themselves, if necessary, against aggres-
sion from the Soviet world,
A much simpler change would be kick-
ing the obstructionist out; but, of course,
the Soviet would have a veto on that.
Whatever form it may take, some
change is inevitable. To have proceeded
thus far with what the Soviet vetoes have
made U.N.O. has been participation in
futility. To proceed further with the
same thing means conniving in a cruel
fraud. It is part of that fraud that the
Indonesia “action” should be ballyhooed
as proving U.N.O. a force capable of
maintaining world peace.
FREE ENTERPRISE.
In a “New Leader” article, in which he
points out to “those in Britain who in-
dict free enterprise so ferociously” that
“for many years Britain’s very life will
depend upon the productiveness of capi-
talist countries” (chief among them the
United States), Sir Norman Angell adds
these comments on the U.S. under that
system:
Nowhere in the world or in history
has the common man of Mr. Wallace’s
oratory attained so high a standard of
living as under that much - abused
economy. The United States is the only
country in the world able to give peace-
time help on the scale we know; and
to do it after having provided war
material on a scale so vast that without
it Britain (not to mention other Allies)
would assuredly have gone down.
These things were achieved a year or
two after the great American depression


SMOKERS
Direct from Manufacturer to You
Special money-saving offer of high-
class toasted pipe tobaccos blended
\vith the best imported tobaccos.
RICH DARK MEDIUM PIPE
MIXTURE, 15/- per lb. Posted.
MEDIUM HIGH-CUASB PIPE
MIXTURE, IS/6 per lb. Posted.
HIGH-CUASS TOASTED READY-
RUBBED PINE CUT TOBACCO,
17/- per lb. Posted.
Make your post box your nearest store.
Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
Safeguard the future
... of your family
. . . by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and combine the first-hand persona]
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond, Chair-
man ; Cecil H. Doyle ;
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E.,
V.D.; F. H. Way;
G. Moncrieff Barron,
0.8. E., M.B.CH.M.,
F.R.A.C.S.; J. K-
Faviell.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Asst. Mgr.:
C. N. P. Whittle.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LIO.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY pt.*.
tired feet?
Hot. fired feet need
this treatment: —
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application. Try
it and enjoy real foot.
comfort. Cuticura
Ointment. Coap and
Talcum Powder
the famous
trio,
sn
i
. 14
OINTMENT
which is repeatedly quoted as proof of
breakdown of the capitalist system—a
breakdown prophesied now for some-
thing over a century.
We take it for granted, as a matter of
course, that America today, with six
per cent, of the world’s population,
should be in a position to help a great
part of the remaining 94 per cent. We
talk vaguely of the vast natural resources
and large population of the United
States. Yet her population is much
smaller than that of Europe, or China,
or India, or Russia ; and she is helping,
or has helped, all of them.
BRITAIN’S DOLLARS.
Judging by cables, Britain’s financial
crisis broke like a thunderclap. Astonish-
ing, in view of the very widespread
advance discussion of just such a crisis
that has gone on in the American press
all this year.
American prophecies that J. Bull would
be along again with the hat have waxed
louder with every new British withdrawal
on the $3,750,000,000 loan. That loan
credit, extended on July 15, 1946, was
supposed to work out like this: $1.5
billion during the first year; $1 billion
over the next two-yaar period; the rest
to last over the next two or three years.
Withdrawals were such that on the
first anniversary of the loan last month
it was widely predicted in the American
press that what remained would be ex*
hausted before the end of this year or,
at the very latest, before Britain’s coming
winter was over. Before July was out
Britain had taken $2,450,000,000 in a
single year and had $1,300,000,000 left.
Commenting on that position, “Wall-
street Journal” Washington correspon-
dent Jay Reid has stated:
Time and again during the past few months
high-ranking British officials were led up to
the idea of another loan request by advisers who
sought to nerve the Attlee regime for the jump.
Both Foreign Secretary Bevin and Chancellor
of the Exchequer Hugh Dalton were horrified
at the prospect. But they had begun to face
it somewhat unsteadily when Secretary Marshall
made his June 5 speech at Harvard.
The Marshall address was all that Mr. Bevin
needed to turn sharply away again froni the
notion of another direct loan from the United
States. He embraced the Marshall suggestions
eagerly and has not since been willing to con-
sider another American loan bid.
Now, in the same correspondent’s view,
“all Britain’s hopes for relief when the
loan money runs out centre in the co-
operative European and American re-
covery effort” ; but, “Whether the Mar-
shall proposal will put enough American
dollars within Britain’s reach when the
loan is exhausted remains an unanswered
question. The British apparently are
putting their eggs in that basket, taking
the view that if dollars are spent on
European recovery a good part of them
must eventually be corralled by British
trade.”
Chicago “Tribune,” N.Y. “Daily
News” and one or two other newspapers
of their way of thinking—even such a
friendly soul as George E. Sokolsky of
N.Y. “Sun” —have heavily blamed the
Attlee Government’s socialisation pro-
gramme for all the trouble (that even the
patient British have been getting tired of
the Attlee “austerity” efforts is indicated
by the cartoon on this page, from a
British source). Others have sefen mitiga-
tion in such happenings as the big rises
in U.S. prices considerably lessening the
value of a loan credit which, in the first
place, was barely more than half what the
British experts said was necessary for
Britain’s recovery. Reid, of “Wall-street
Journal,” has made a further point in
mitigation:
Having accepted a 50-50 share of food costs
in the Anglo-American occupied zone of Ger-
many, the British have found that about 13
per cent, of their withdrawals against the U.S.
dollar credit must be spent for that purpose.
This expense was not even contemplated when
the loan agreement was negotiated.
One effect of the curiously “sudden”
and seemingly “surprising” financial crisis
and apparent political panic—leading to
a cutting down of the armed forces,
among other dollar-saving measures —
could be to swing into line behind the
Marshall plan those in the British Parlia-
ment and outside it who still lean towards
Moscow, a war-time crawl that continues
very evident in London “Times.”
U.S.A., O.K.
Specimens of recent Americana gleaned
from a “Life” editorial:
Gallup polls reveal that in the 171st
year of their independence nearly half
of America’s citizens do not know the
meaning of the word “recession” (per-
haps a good thing). Half of them do
not believe Hitler is dead.
Last year Pan-American Airways and
the Panagra airline flew three-quarters
of a billion miles without a passenger
fatality. With 25,000,000 cars back on
the roads Americans are killing each
other on the highways at the rate of more
than 30,000 a year.
The “chief cultural product” remains
the movies. On view at long last is
“Duel in the Sun,” “the most expensive
film ever made and jthe most roundly
ballyhooed. It is so bad that you. can’t
even laugh at it.” But Americans are
still turning out excellent examples of
their “most indigenous art form,” and
American audiences are welcoming the
new British products of J. Arthur Rank.
Wall-street financiers and a lot of other
Glasgow “Bulletin."
WHAT ABOUT SOMETHING OFF THE CART?
people are apprehensive about a “bust
around the corner” ; prices are too high ;
the 10 per cent, cut in general prices
didn’t catch on among suppliers. How-
ever, “individualism is still paying off for
the consumer as well as for the
individualist.” For example, “J. E.
Webb, of St, Petersburg, Fla., not
long ago a hole-in-the-corner druggist,
now has a $9,000,000-a-year busi-
ness which sells everything fr|m
Brussels sprouts to liquor at cut prices.”
When the State said he couldn’t sell
haircuts for as little as 45 cents he went
to court and got the price-fixing law cut
from the books (Australia could do with
a few like him).
In the way of individual independence
and self-expression, a waitress in a Jack-
son, Miss., restaurant plastered the face
of her boss with a chocolate pie. “I’ve
wanted to do this for six months,” said
she, departing for Texas.
The U.S. Red Cross reports a 25 per
cent, oversubscription. Also, “One of
America’s millionaires gave $500,000 to
rebuild an English cathedral,” and the
Rockefellers have dug up another
$10,000,000 for medical instruction in
China. Americans every day are sending
an average of 6500 food packages to
European families.
On the public conscience are the horri-
fying lynchings (with petrol to help).
But “our very conscience has prevented
the purge of Communists in the Govern-
ment from developing into a witch hunt.”
Also the current No. 1 fiction best-seller,
Gentleman’s Agreement, is a forthright
indictment of anti-Semitism.
Other reading shows “Americans have
never been so serious-minded, the three
non-fiction best-sellers bearing the titles
Peace of Mind, Human Destiny and A
Study of History.
On the President: “For the time be-
ing, at least, we accept gladly as Chief
Executive a very common citizen who
still enjoys his home-town hangouts,
whose daughter uninhibitedly aspires to
the concert stage and whose own pro-
fessional past includes a hitch in haber-
dashery.”
On worrying about the world, and an
ex-President who has done a lot of that
with great wisdom: “Mr. Hoover thinks
everybody should go fishing.”
From all of which and other like
evidence “Life” concludes: “A people
which dreams up more things, makes
more things and gives away more things
than any other in history, whose personal
characteristics and general behavior on
balance compare favorably with its peers
anywhere, need not overburden itself
with worry and self-doubt. For, as
nations and peoples go, the Americans
are doing all right.”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Lend-lease Liberality. —Recent niggling attacks
on the U.S. (some of them emanating from,
of all places of one-time craven panic, Can-
berra) suggest that the Higglers are prime
forgetters. It might be thought that recollection
of one thing alone —U.S. lend-lease generosity;
without any comparison in dealings between
war allies at any time in history—would be
enough to shut some of them up. As merely
yet another typical example, the settlement
with the Dutch. In this the entire $308,000,000
worth of lend-lease services and supplies ad-
vanced to the Dutch at home and in the Indies
during the fighting years has been wiped off
the slate. The Hague was asked to pay-over
30 years, beginning in 1951 —$67,500,000 for
post-war lend-lease material, but against this
U.S. is committed to paying the Dutch
$25,000,000 (private claims against non-
military destruction by American forces in
the Netherlands), and, further, U.S. is taking
$13,700,000 of the balance in the form of
“embassy and consulate sites, educational pro-
grammes and student exchanges.” Thus the
net cost to the Dutch of all lend-lease “is
$42,000,000, of which $13,700,000 will be paid
off in real estate and scholarships.”
* * * •
Soviet Bonuses for Mum. N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” Moscow correspondent reports that
in the 11 years since the Soviet started
subsidising the baby-producing industry
14,800,000,000 rubles have been paid out to
mothers. Along with the cash go orders accord-
ing to merit. The lowest of these, the Medal
of Motherhood (for mothers of at least five
children), has gone to 1,424,843; Order of
Mother Glory (seven offspring), 522,733; the
top award, the Order of Mother Heroine (at
least 10 offspring), 20,746. Maybe it means
nothing whatever that Musso and Adolf also
subsidised the industry.
* * * *
Sub. Victims in Two Wars. A British
Admiralty statement on Allied shipping losses
shows one remarkable difference: “In the first
war losses averaged nearly 95 merchant ships
a month compared with 41 a month in the
second.” The average tonnage sunk a month
in both wars was, however, approximately the
same at 215,000 gross tons, the average size
of ships sunk between 1939-45 being 5250
gross tons, as against 2300 gross tons in 1914-18.
“The difference in the rate of loss,” says a
London “Times” report, “is all the more re-
markable as in the second war U-boats had
a far greater operational range, and almost
from the outset were able to use bases and
facilities which placed them in a favorable
position. Also from June, 1940, Germany had
a partner in Europe who had more than 100
U-boats, and until December, 1941, Britain
was practically alone in facing the onslaught.
In 1914-18 Germany had the naval forces of
practically the whole world against her, yet
her U-boats sank merchant ships at more than
double the monthly rate of 1939-45. One of
the main reasons for the lower rate was the
use of the convoy system from the very begin-
ning.” The report adds: “In the recent war
it is estimated that Allied forces destroyed
an average of Hi U-boats a month; in 1914-18
the losses of German submarines we-e estimated
as 3i a month.”
♦ * * ♦
Soviet Obstruction Risk. Looking into
Russia’s obstruction policy, “Atlantic Monthly”
sees a strong possibility of its being a boomer-
ang: “The Soviet Union is in desperate need
of industrial recovery. Russia’s battle for quick
reparations is dictated by that necessity. This
need dominates her policy in every area now
occupied by her armed forces. It provides the
clue to her policy toward Poland, Czecho-
slovakia, Bulgaria, Rumania and Yugoslavia.
Yet the primary need of these latter States,
also, is industrial development. They can ex-
pect little assistance for some time from the
Soviet Union except in the form of limited
credits. But they can expect almost none from
the Western nations, particularly from the
United States, so long as the present division
of Europe into two mutually opposed sections
continues. The political repercussions of this
situation on Russian prestige are important.
In Yugoslavia, where a new and ambitious
five-year plan for development has been charted
officially, they may prove explosive.”
* ♦ * ♦
On Columnists. —Since the Australian rash
of newspaper columnists broke out, stuff has
been published which papers employing them
wouldn’t otherwise have touched and attempts
have been made to put over the idea that
responsibility belongs to the columnists, not
the papers. The whole thing is a copy of
American journalism, in which columnists
flourish in countless numbers. Roosevelt once
sent a German iron cross to one of them ;
another —Drew Pearson, who has been syndi-
cated in Australia —ha& been the subject of a
cutting editorial in Chicago “Tribune,” which
referred to a Senate committee having estab-
lished Pearson as lying and, as well as weigh-
ing in with its own testimony in support, went
on to make these comments on the newspapers
which print his column: “They cannot escape
responsibility for his falsehoods. As them
lawyers will advise them, they have a legal
responsibility, but they likewise have a moral
responsibility A number of newspapers....,
contend that because it is the columnist who
says something and not the newspaper, the
newspaper is not responsible for what the
columnist says. There is, of course, no legal
basis for this. A newspaper can be sued just
as quickly for a libel printed in a column
as for one produced by its own reporters or
printed on its own editorial page. The moral
responsibility is the same as the legal respon-
sibility. A newspaper that prints Pearsons
lies is just as conscienceless as Pearson.”
* * * *
Intellectuals as Corns. —“Wall-street Journal
columnist William Henry Chamberlin, a recog-
nised authority on Soviet Russia, has tried to
figure out why any Americans, intellectuals
particularly, should become “such addicts of
foreign totalitarian ideology that they must be
considered spiritual and intellectual expatriates,
out of touch with all the ideals that made their
country great.” Says Chamberlin: “No reason-
ably informed person can honestly doubt that
the Soviet system rests on a basis of espionage
and terrorism more ruthless and better organised
than anything known under the Czars. No
reasonably informed person can doubt that
human slavery has been restored in the Soviet
forced labor concentration camps on a scale
and with a cruelty unknown in the Western
world since Alexander II freed the Russian
serfs and Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves in
America... .It is a disquieting sign of the times
that even a minority of Western intellectuals
seems to fear freedom and shun reason, to
throw itself blindly into a cause the success
of which would blot out all the liberal and
humane ideals of the civilisation in which
these intellectuals were reared.” One explana-
tion: “With the decline in religious conviction
in this age some individuals transfer to a secular
cause like Communism the fanaticism they
might in other times have placed at the ser-
vice of some bigoted and self-righteous sect.


Factory
Available
■
u
m
e ■
B m
m
/
&
m
■ :
/
i'L
%
I
m
53T
i
m
at
A, above, shows
alternative arrange-
ments. If door is
required, window
above must be
deleted,
1
V
These all-steel prefabri-
cated buildings provide an
answer to the factory space
problem where an easily erected
and completely fire, weather and
vermin-proof building is required.
Their usefulness extends to the farm,
where they would make ideal shearing sheds.
Due to material shortages, uncovered frame-
work only can be provided at present. However,
these buildings are designed to take iron or fibro
covering without modification.
The 40ft. Armco building can be provided with alternative
door arrangements, as illustrated, and in lengths of any
multiple of 15 feet. Uncovered frames are also available for
Armco Prefabricated Steel Buildings in 20ft., 30ft. and 60ft. span.
ARHCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PT Y. LTD.
PREFABRIC A TED
STEEL BUILDINGS
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney N.S.W.
422 Collins Street, Melbourne Victoria
319-325 Queen Street, Brisbane Queensland
C.M.L. Building, 41 King William Street, Adelaide, South Australia.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3522
Wednesday, August 13, 1947
BRITISH LION AND CANBERRA MOUSE.
“I can’t tackle the ropes, but I don’t mind sparing a bit of cheese—if you come and get it.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb ,
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE NEW DANIEL.
During his brief stay in Japan Dr. Evatt
failed to live up to press assurances that
he would give General MacArthur an
earbashing, and some of the newspaper-
men were quite nasty about it. One
noted sourly that the doctor would have
“spent five weeks travelling from and re-
turning to Australia in ships”—one was a
cruiser whose complement had had its leave
delayed to suit the traveller’s convenience
—and all for “a whirlwind visit which
permitted insufficient time to analyse the
scene.” And “a senior American corres-
pondent” was quoted as saying “He
arrived like a lion and departs as a lamb.”
But a hero he still is to some press-
men and the entire staff of the External
Affairs Department; a second Daniel. In
plain truth Daniel had nothing on him
for rashness. Dr. Evatt has been, and
is still, prepared to enter and remain in
what looks like a den of jackals. And a
jackal is a far more treacherous and un-
stable an animal than a lion.
Until a few months ago those who were
versed in British Commonwealth tradi-
tion, in the necessities of defence and in
the decencies of inter-British relation-
ships might have felt that Australia’s
place in the girdle of nations which ring
the world was fairly well settled.
On one side of us lies Africa, pre-
dominantly a British continent, athwart
our communication lines with Europe.
In view of the rapidly extending range of
aircraft, Africa within a decade will be
far more closely knit to the Common-
wealth than at present. Much of the
European air traffic will go direct from
Westralia into British Africa. The ocean
in between is predominantly British.
On the east of Australia lies the South
Pacific, the bulk of its important islands,
including New Zealand and the Fijis,
British. It is dominated by the British
Commonwealth and American navies and
aircraft, and is walled in on the eastern
side by the Americas, whose peoples all
speak European languages and are
wedded to Europe and European tradi-
tion by commercial and sentimental ties.
Beyond the Anfericas, completing the
circle, is the Atlantic, with Britain in its
lap, wholly part of a European area.
This is the girdling system to which
Australia, 98 per cent. British, belongs
naturally. This is the world-belt with
the integrity of which our future is natur-
ally bound up.
But the whole policy of Dr. Evatt, who
arrogates to himself the right to speak
for the nation without consulting Par-
liament, has been to tear up the Com-
monwealth out of this structure and
attach it to South-East Asia.
In the development of this policy there
have been witnessed such acts of deser-
tion as that which allied Australia with
small brindle nations against South
Africa, and involved it in the Communist
ban on Dutch shipping, extended “to
sanctions” in its latest phase. This to
serve the ambitions of a band of Indo-
nesians, notorious enemy collaborators in
the Japanese war. It is little more than
two years since these fellows were preach-
ing resistance to Australian troops if they
landed in Java, being committed to the
“Greater South-East Asia Co-Prosperity
Scheme,” of which they were willing to
become a part as a Dominion of Japan.
It must revolt and alarm any Australian
cradled in the British tradition and
brought up with a fervent belief in the
White Australia doctrine to see Dr.
Evatt throwing this country into the
Asian zone, especially when Pandit
Nehru has laid it down that no European
race has the right to maintain armed
forces in any Asian land. Revolting and
alarming also are the virtual acceptance of
the Communist-born doctrine, evilly ex-
ploited by the Japanese, that all colonial
peoplfes in the Asian zone must be freed
from “imperialist domination,” and our
“Government’s” habitual surrender to
traitor elements which, when Britain and
Australia were in dire peril, stabbed them
in the back.
The Japanese could never have estab-
lished themselves as firmly as they did in
Java had the Indonesians resisted them as
they are resisting the Dutch. The Bur-
mese could have made the Japanese
occupation untenable if they had had
native leadership other than that of mur-
derous quislings. Siam could have
changed the whole course of the Malayan
war had it taken the same stand as the
Dutch in Java and laid its terrain and
facilities open to British forces before
the Japanese invasion. And the whole
Allied position would have been infinitely
stronger had it not been for the traitorous
Indian National Army of Subhas
Chandra Bhose, now honored by the new
“free” Government of India.
Speaking in Parliament last February
Dr. Evatt remarked that Australia (i.e.,
himself) was directly concerned with these
political developments [in South-East
Asia] and their consequences:
As South-East Asian peoples cease to be
dependent on the decisions of European
Governments so Australian interests in the
councils of South-East Asia will increase.
We must work for a harmonious asso-
ciation of democratic States in the South-
East Asia area, and see in the development
of their political maturity opportunity for
greatly-increased political, cultural and com-
mercial co-operation.
On the present indications of what the
future holds this means that Australia is
to be a white dot in a comity of colored
peoples. It means also that Dr. Evatt
and his colleagues have failed to appre-
ciate the realities of the situation.
Howevfer they try to divorce them-
selves from Europe it will be a long time
before the South-East Asian peoples can
cease to be dependent on the decisions of
European Governments. From “Euro-
pean” nations, using the term in the
broadest sense to include the great
English-speaking countries of America,
Africa and the Pacific, flow out nearly
everything that counts in the world’s in-
ventiveness and genius and in its advances
in thought and humanity of outlook.
Moreover, in enunciating his policy
Dr. Evatt neglects the immensely im-
portant fact that South-East Asia is
merely part of a who[e. If its complete
freedom from the rest of Europe could be
established, it could never divorce itself
from the government of Asia, and con-
sequently from that nation whose greatest
population is in Europe, but whose
bulk lies right across the whole of North-
East Asia from the Kalmuck Plains to
the Pacific Ocean.
Russia, in fact, can be the dominating
Power in Asia. Its policies have brought
the South-East Asian countries into re-
volt and alone will guide them. Aus-
tralia cannot accept a position as an in-
tegral part of the South-East Asian system
without becoming a part of the Asian
system as a whole, and without accepting
Russian overlordship, concealed or
camouflaged.
A warning of the trends was given at
the Asian Relations conference, sponsored
by “the Indian Council of World Affairs,”
and held at New Delhi four months
ago. At this conference Britain and Aus-
tralia had “observers.” The countries
represented by delegates were:
Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Bhutan, Burma, Ceylon, China, Egypt,
Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Korea,
Kagarkstan, Kirghizia, Lebanon, Malaya,
Nepal, Outer Mongolia, Palestine, Philip-
pines, Siam, Tadjikistan, Tibet, Turk-
menstan, Turkey, Uzbekistan, Viet-Nam.
Half thfe obscure names are, those of
sections of the U.S.S.R., in thrall to Stalin.
Some of the rest are ruled by quislings.
And the conference was on the model of
All-Russian Communist-party confer-
ences.
That there was “frefe discussion” is
vouched for by a Mr, Gerald*Packer, of
“the Australian Institute of International
Affairs.” It was kept on an “expert
level” by " rapporteurs” who, as at Mos-
cow and Australian Communist confer-
ences, “remedied the position by occa-
sional intervention in debate to ensure
that the sense of the discussion was along
the lines which it appeared to them
desirable,”
The Australian “observer” observed
that “the various Soviet Republics
marked time on the Moscow line.” But
there was “unanimity in accepting the
rapporteurs’ reports.”
Discussions, concerned with “national
freedom movements,” were “uninhibited
and strongly anti-European.” The
word “imperialist” was freely and
offensively applied to the English-speak-
ing races, though nobody accused the
U.S.S.R. of being “imperialist.” The
pan-Asiah sentiment, expressed by many
delegates, was “essentially a repudiation
of the possible merits and unquestionable
achievements of the Western World.”
The second main subject of discussion
was “racial problems and migration.”
This produced hostility between the
Chinese and the Indians regarding
national minorities in certain arfeas, and
brought up the problems of “relief from
growing population pressures through
complete freedom of emigration to the
less closely populated areas of East
Africa, A ustralia and the Pacific Islands.”
Mr. Packer notfed that “no similar sug-
gestion” was made “concerning the
sparsely-populated areas of Soviet Asia.”
When the White Australia doctrine
was established Britain was supreme in
Asia from Aden to Hong Kong, and the
Dutch in their Indies. Could knowledge
of the tremendous changes that have
taken place and are still in progress
reach the statesmen who have gone they
would be horrified at Dr. Evatt’s blithe
assertion that “the time has arrived when
there should be formed in South-East
Asia and the Western Pacific an appro-
priate regional instrumentality concerning
itself with the interests of all the peoples
of this area.” They would turn in their
graves could it come to them that Aus-
tralian “Labor” Ministers are set on
handing the future of their country into
the care of the colored races of Asia and
the Soviet Union, whose agents —im-
prisoned in Canada for espionage, and in
the U.S.A. expelled from union execu-
tives and the Federal civil service as
actual or potential wreckers —they treat
as privileged saboteurs and wreckers of
industry, industrial laws, transport, race
purity and foreign relations.
It is a policy treacherous to the British
Commonwealth of Nations and fraught
with disaster to the White Australia
doctrine and to Australia itself.
Socialisation Found Wanting.
Very self-satisfied three months ago,
especially when presenting a “financial
statement” (“to say that the Government’s
record does not redound to its credit is
to ignore completely the facts”), Mr.
Chifley has become a worried man, and
he has. ample cause for worry. He knows
now that “socialisation” is no remedy,
either in Britain or Australia. He knows
that his Government, in its own interest,
will have to help socialist Britain some-
how, though, as Mr. Hughes has pointed
out with just severity, he has only a woolly
idea as to the form and extent that help
should take. And he should realise, if he
doesn’t, that there is no magic in the
formula of “full employment.” Britain
has “full employment” ; and “full employ-
ment” hasn’t saved it from the crash con-
fessed last week by its socialist Prime
Minister,
Mr. Chifley had his week-end con-
ference with the Chambers of Manufac-
tures and the A.C.T.U., called to debate
what is wrong with Australian industry
in the planners’ state of economic beati-
tude. There is indeed “full employ-
ment” at record and soaring costs, much
of it at doing nothing useful. With de-
creasing hours of work, production lags
calamitously in coalmines, factories and
workshops. It is far below what it was in
those pre-war days when unions clamored
for “the right to work.” It now appears
that what their bosses, now become all-
powerful, wanted was not “full employ-
ment,” but less employment; not work,
but enlistment on the Government pay-
roll ; not prosperous industry, but a class
war, with strikes, insubordination and
“absenteeism” as weapons, and with Gov-
ernment ownership and bureaucratic
controls of everything as means to a
chaotic or a sticky finish,
Mr, Chifley possesses usually the un-
ruffled temperament of a locomotive
idling in a shunting-yard lunch-hour ; but,
by all accounts, it is easy to nettle him
nowadays by uttering, in his hearing, re-
minders about a “Golden Age.” There
will definitely be no Golden Age under
socialisation. As a system of economic
organisation it is showing itself daily to
be inept, bankrupt, demoralising, sterile
of any incentive to a society supposedly
better educated than in any previous
generation for development of initiative
and skill. In Britain it has produced a
state of affairs where a socialist “Govern-
ment,” engaged in a blind and stupid
war against individual enterprise, is func-
tioning only by reliance upon the good-
will and help of two “capitalist” countries,
the United States and Canada.
Under free enterprise Britain main-
tained a two-Power Navy to back up its
diplomacy, and never flinched from its
course under any form of foreign pres-
sure. It had a mighty foreign trade to
reinforce that insistence upon the rule
of law and order which the Navy carried
about the world. These powers are gone,
with India and Burma. War-exhaustion
alone has not done the mischief. The
whole bloodstream of British energy is
sapped by the pernicious anaemia of
socialisation and disruption of a complex
and efficient industrial organism. Aus-
tralia itself has the disease in a bad form,
though its effects have been mitigated for
the time being by great American pur-
chases of w001—£35,748,000-worth in
1946-47. With its prodigious cost of
socialist government and the growing
immensity of its losses on Government
transport, Australia is depending on
capitalist America to a greater extent than
Mr. Chifley would care to admit.
The Prime Minister’s statement after
the Canberra industrial conference is
typical of the style in him that passes for
leadership. It said little to the purpose
and got nowhere in particular.
The manufacturers urged a drive for
production by a slackening of Govern-
ment controls, a three-year holiday from
strikes, the lifting of unions’ limitation
of daily output, relief from excessive war-
time rates of company taxation, still im-
posed—doubly on companies and their
shareholders —and thfe offer of incentive
or bonus payments to workers. What was
the A.C.T.U.’s answer?
Complete abolition of wage-controls, but
maintenance of price-controls.
No holiday from strikes—unions could
not be asked, for all their pledges about
arbitration, to “waive that right.
Some lip-service to the idea of increas-
ing production. •
No bonus payments —they would weaken
union control of members. Incentive pay-
ments might be acceptable if September
conference approves and if employers open
their books to union inspection.
On his part Mr, Chifley spouted some
evangelical stuff about “steady work by
every Australian,” aid to Britain, soli-
darity of the British Commonwealth and
“something” for stricken foreign peoples.
He “surveyed with satisfaction” our
“great increase in industrial capacity”,
he had “vast plans” for “activity and
expansion,” and he “appealed” to union
leaders to exercise firm discipline to pre-
vent “unauthorised” strikes, And so on.
But reduce company taxation or abolish
double taxation of companies and share-
holders he would not. No such “in-
centive” to industry from him. For it
would mean that his “Government”
would not be “geared” to meet the
recession—whatever that may mean.
So far as the public has been allowed
to know, not a word was said about
blackmarketing (which Ministers were
going to stamp out years ago), the dry-
rot on the waterfront or any reduction
in the army of bureaucrats —one in four
of the working population and still grow-
ing—in order to relieve the labor shortage
which the conference lamented. True
there was a singular admission in the
joint statement issued after the con-
ference :
It is evident that, from a general re-
view of the economic and employment
position, free or private enterprise in the
past and at present is the major avenue
for providing work. It is therefore the
avenue for providing the greatest measure
of employment.
This acknowledgment of first economic
principles, of what Kipling calls “the
Gods of the Copybook Headings,’* may
at least be preserved from the conference
records as a sign of sanity.
In the Carboniferous Epoch we were promised
abundance for all,
By robbing selected Peter to pay for collective
Paul;
But though we had plenty of money, there was
nothing our money could buy,
And the Gods of the Copybook Headings said:
If you don’t work you die.
So the A.C.T.U. delegates thus acknow-
ledge primary dependence for industrial
salvation upon private enterprise, do
they? They may be expected, and not
merely by the cynical, to water down that
admission by the time their own annual
conference and executive elections come
along. For the objective of the A.C.T.U.
expressed at its foundation 20 years ago,
and preserved in the Commonwealth
Year-book, is “socialisation of industry,
i.e., production and exchange,” and the
methods of pursuing it are “(c) closer
organisation of the workers by trans-
forming the trade-union movement from
a craft to an industrial basis” (involving
all those demarcation disputes, which Mr.
Chifley laments); “(6) consolidation of
the movement to unify control of
administration and action ; (c) centralisa-
tion of control of industrial disputes; (d)
educational propaganda among unions.”
All for socialisation, obviously. The
A.C.T.U. claims the right to Control
strikes ; yet it will not even temporarily
ban them, and it has shown repeatedly,
particularly over the period of stepping
out to the ever-receding Golden Age,
that it cannot stop them.
Canberra conference over, these
A.C.T.U. frefe-enterprise men who have a
lingering prejudice in favor of socialism
cast up in Sydney. To plan a harmonious
drive for increased production? No, to
attend “a conference of Federal unions,”
for the most part Communist-controlled,
and to set the A.C.T.U. brand on “a
resolution” calling upon “all trade-
unionists” to “refuse to assist in any way
whatsoever the movement of any Dutch
goods or the repair, refuelling and/or
movement of any Dutch transport, vessel,
vehicle or aircraft in or adjacent to this
Commonwealth.” Thereby the A.C.T.U.
and its associates not only imposed
sanctions on the Dutch m contempt of
their own chicken-hearted Government
and of the White Australia policy, but
struck a felon blow at Australian wage-
payers, wage-earners and housebuilders by
decreeing that they should be deprived
of Dutch-carried goods now on the water,
linseed oil from India among them.
In political matters there is nothing
to choose between the so-called “mili-
tant” and “moderate” sections of the
A.C.T.U. The only difference is in color.
The “militant” section is Red, the
“moderate” section yellow.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Out on a Limb.
The quality of the leadership, industrial
given to unionists was shown
bfft” swiftness with which
the Communist central committee secured
ACTU. acceptance of its ban on all
Dutch transport and goods and by the
“Government’s” reaction. „ .
Mr. Chifley “called a conference. A
conference with the wretched A.C T.U.
“moderates” to ask whether the Com-
munists would be good enough to limit
their war to trade with Dutch-controlled
areas in Indonesia, seeing that Australia
had offered its services as arbitrator
The Communist prohibition has been
extended to all Dutch ships and airlines.
It was imposed after the cease-lire ender
had been issued and after Australia had
posed at U.N.O. as a friend of both sets
of combatants, perfectly impartial. One
result is that six Dutch ships carrying
sorely-needed sheet glass, linseed oil and
jute, and With wool intended as freight
on the return voyages, will be diverted
from Australia, already desperately short
of shipping. ££TT ,
As stated in Melbourne Herald, one
of the few papers which really report
overseas events without concealing things
the public should know, Australia put
itself out on a limb as the result of its
badly-phrased attempt to intervene in
Indonesia.” ,
A “Herald” forecast that Britain
and America would not support this
Canberra manoeuvre proved correct, as
did the prophecy in these columns that
Russia would make the most of it to in-
crease its influence in the Pacific. The
“Herald” correspondent declares that
Canberra showed innocence of political
realities in attempting to secure Security
Council recognition of the Indonesian
“Government” as a sovereign State, and
finds inexplicable Mr. Chifley’s statement
that there was no difference of opinion
between Australia and Britain, in view of
the fact that Mr. Bevin has given no sup-
port to the fiction of Indonesian sover-
eignty, and that the British delegation was
instructed to oppose the Australian Con-
tention that the Indonesian “Govern-
ment” should sit on the Security Council
with the Dutch.
Mr. Johnson, the U.S. delegate, had
a scornful reference to the “so-called
Indonesian Government,” and declared
that “Australia’s” proposal opened the
way for “wicked, purposeful usurpers” to
claim international recognition. The
“Herald” man comments that Australia
was “left high and dry,” finding itself “in
the awkward position of having only
Russia as an ally.” Not only Russia.
Support for the Australian move came
also from the Indian Left Wing and from
the anti-British and anti-Dutch Chicago
“Tribune,” a journal which “Labor” re-
fused to allow to be printed in the Com-
monwealth for circulation among U.S.
servicemen on the ground that it was
Fascist.
Another Daring Raid.
During the Japanese war there were 56
N.S.W. “Labor” Assemblymen drawing
a minimum of £875 p.a., with free trans-
port, postage and other desirable things ;
and there are nearly as many now, who
are going to give themselves more. Heaps-
more for all hands —another £5OO p.a.
for members, another £lOOO for the
Premier, half of it “entertainment allow-
ance” (which he said he didn’t want but
didn’t refuse), and another £945 for
Ministers, taking the Premier to £3450
p.a. and his colleagues to £2445 p.a. Of
these colleagues there are 15, including
two recent appointees with fancy titles,
Tourist Activities and Building Materials,
who began without offices, staffs or Par-
liamentary votes. They are swiftly sur-
rounding themselves with departments
after the fashion of their tribe.
None of the 56 “Labor” Assemblymen
did any fighting against the Japs. A few
of them had fairly earned exemption by
service in the first German war ; never-
theless, the general fact of non-corn-
batancy should be stated, if only in
justice to the fighting men whom this
home-keeping crowd let down. Profuse
of promises of homes and farms, it
failed (and is still failing) to provide
more than a beggarly allotment of either,
at the same time neglecting almost every-
thing else that needed energetic and
earnest attention. Of its war-period
legislation there remain in memory only
two measures, each abominable: the
Sydney Turf Club Act —which, among
other things, cost Sydney a Nuffield fac-
tory—and the Brewers’ Benefit Act, now
execrated by every section except the
Trade. Yet the end of the conflict found
these politicians behaving and distribut-
ing rewards among themselves as if they
were the heroes.
They began by legislating for
Assemblymen’s pensions with a precipi-
tancy and on a scale which must have
made shattered servicemen and war
widows feel bitter. Five pounds a week
for life on defeat or retirement after
“Service” in 1 three Parliaments —for
example, from 1939 to 1946—and
£6 a week if the “service” exceeds
15 years, with in each case, on decease,
£3 a week for the widow, A pretence
was made that they would be contribu-
tory pensions, since from the despised
£l7 a week there would be deducted
£1 10s. —it was to have been £l, but to
this, it was thought, “the mugs” might
object as too little. The farce of the 30-
bob deduction will doubtless proceed.
But the 30 bob and the rest of the booty
to be seized —it is to date from July 1 —
will be taken from “the mugs.”
And this by a band whose leader con-
fessed a loss of £1,852,400 for the year
to June 30, and who, to reduce estimated
losses of £8,600,000 on the current year
—estimates framed without regard to the
new shipping charges for coal and every-
thing—has lifted tram and bus fares and
railway fares and freight-rates sky-high.
This when the cost of nearly everything
else has gone or is going up. On the
Premier’s own showing his Administra-
tion and that of his predecessor McKell
has been guilty of riotous extravagance
and crass incompetency. Yet “the mugs”
are to pay this guilty gang through the
nose for being extravagant and incompe-
tent and, of course, greedy.
The worst feature of these daring raids
on the public purse is the dull, fatalistic
apathy with which they are accepted.
Had the pensions steal been punished in
the constituencies there would have been
RAFFERTY RIDES AGAIN.
“At one stroke the cost of Parliamentary government in N.S.W. will be increased by
more than £50,000 annually, at a time when the Treasury is incurring increasingly heavy
deficits.” — “S. M. Herald” on the salary steal.
no salary rise, of which no hint was given
in the constituencies. Punished it was not,
nor was there any sign that it was even
resented. Certainly the Opposition parties
received no support on the score of their
having voted against the pensions steal
and pledged themselves to repeal the
nefarious Act. From the girl- and
gambling-mad city press nothing could
have been expected save obsequious ap-
proval of the steal, with, here and there,
a few scolding sentences. But surely
there ‘should have been some popular
protest in a city where a Government
once fell because it had voted £5OO to a
follower for an old-age-pensions report!
•
On the Sugar Coast.
“Norther,” in no melting mood:
Mr. Chifley, about to hand back ships to
their owners, loaded with dynamite in the for®
of war-risk pay and the rest, remarked that
freight-rates could be expected to go up about
£2,000,000 a year as a result.
Queensland, which has more working ports
on its coast than any other State —one reason
why with the implied decentralisation of in-
dustry and population, it fared better during
the Depression than any other State—-has had
to put up with a steady deterioration brought
about by go-slow and strikes on the wharves,
a position made worse by the effects of similar
“troubles” in the south. Mr. Morrison, chair-
man of the Stevedoring Industry Commission,
happened to be one of the crowd of Federal
Ministers, members and officials who trekked to
Queensland while winter gripped the south,
and at Mackay he let out figures wßich show
how waterfront expenses have been increased:
When all ships are handed back to their
owners attendance money will cost the in-
dustry about £300,000 p.a., annual leave
about £250,000 p.a. and S.I.C. administra-
tion about £125,000 p.a.
« j n Mr. Morrison’s description “boons” for
the wharfies. And the chairman reminded them
of the “concessions” his S.I.C. had granted
them and said that if they helped the com-
mission the commission would help the
wharfies. This was after the S.I.C. had “con-
cluded its business,” and after Mr. Morrison
had reviewed loading rates and other things at
ports. He found the hourly loading rates to be
something like this: Loading rate
per gang per hour
Port. in tons.
Port Douglas 25
Cairns "
Goondi fx ,
Townsville t».o
Mackay 20. J
Fundaberg
Gladstone
Mr. Morrison appeared to be satisfied with
Port Douglas, bothered by the discrepancy
between Goondi and Cairns, convinced ot
“wonderful improvement” at Townsville, wor-
ried by Fundaberg, pleased with Mackay ana
undecided about Gladstone. It was after run-
ning this gamut of emotions that he suggeste
that, “given adequate port facilities, a reason-
able sugar loading rate of 25 tons per gang per
hour” would satisfy all and sundry.
In January the Townsville “Bulletin pub-
lished a Chamber of Commerce report :
By far the greatest handicap is in the
time it takes for ships to be turned round.
Mr. Logan, of the Australian Shipping
Board, has indicated that the rate per hour
of loading and unloading has fallen con-
siderably Comparing 1938-39 with 1946,
gross average gang-rates (tons per hour)
have fallen as follows:
Cargo. 1938-39. 1946.
Sugar 24 12.5
Frozen meat
General 13-45 8.3
Coal by grab 161 14-5
Coal by basket 12.5 8.1
Lead by crane 75 zto
Lead by ship’s gear .. 32 UAV
Concentrates 80 bo.o
The gang number was not less in 1946
than in 1938-39 and in some cases it was
higher Control of the Waterside Em-
ployment Committee has fallen into the
hands of Communists No doubt exists
that the blame for the slow turn round of
vessels lies at the doors of the S.I.C. and
the Waterside Workers’ Federation.
Mr. Morrison’s satisfaction with the water-
front position was not universal. Referring
to Lucinda Point, he complained that he’d
never had any co-operation (from the C.S.R.),
that the wharfies’ secretary had told him a
couple of refrigerators would “restore harmony
and that there was nb shelter from rain. To
which the C.S.R. replied that it had agreed
to supply refrigeration in 1945, had tried but
could not get the plant and had temporarily
installed a “new and enlarged ice-chest” until
refrigeration is available; that there was a
covered shed, walled on two sides, 80ft. long
and wide, now on the wharf; that plans
for a separate “smoko” shed had been approved
by the wharfies but had to wait on material
and alterations to the wharf. Also there were
a bicycle shed, extended dining rooms, hot
showers, improved lighting, steel lockers and
sundry other amenities.
Report of a ship’s captain whose vessel dis-
charged bales of sacks at a Queensland port:—
The whole performance of the work done
was viewed with disgust by both myself and
the officers, more particularly when six
men were observed playing card games in
the hold and only two working, whereas
ashore eight men were supposedly required
to land bales on trucks, where two men
could have performed this task without
being unduly worked. Since 19 men were
in each gang, each one received, even on
ordinary rates, 4s. s\d. for his part in
handling 1.6 bales per hour.
And there is the case of the ship Ulooloo.
Loading all new sugar in 1938 the gross gang
rate per hour was 39.5 tons, the net rate 44.8
tons; loading exactly the same kind of cargo
at the same place in August, 1946, the rates
were 25.3 and 29.6 tons respectively.
At Mackay Mr. Morrison said the days ot
“bull gangs” and union enmities had gone. Un-
fortunately, the days of “bull” are still with us.
Reception for Word?
Arrived in the U.S.A. after his tour of
Switzerland, England, Scotland, Ireland
and, of course, other countries, and per-
haps chagrined at having been ‘ dis-
suaded” by Mr. Chifley from whirling
himself into the Indonesian argument as
Australian delegate to the Security Coun-
cil, a post assigned to Colonel Hodgson,
Mr. Ward “expressed keen disappoint-
ment.” Nothing was heard from the
gentleman’s travelling companion, Sena-
tor Amour, but perhaps that worthy “ex-
pressed keen disappointment’ also,
although neither can fairly have objected
to the salary and travelling expenses per-
force provided by the taxpayers, which
were and are generous in the extreme.
Mr, Ward’s “keen disappointment”
concerned the proceedings of the umpty-
umpth conference of the International
Labor Organisation at Geneva, to which
he led the large Australian party. He
said that the resolutions passed at the
conference were so “vaguely phrased” as
to be capable of any interpretation suited
to the taste and fancy of any of the
Governments represented, “reactionary
employers” being, of course, to blame.
Armed with this evidence of 1.L.0.’s
uselessness, Mr. Chifley may decide to
tell Mr. Ward and friends —or will he? —
that no good purpose will be served by
any further participation in the racket.
And in respect of “conferences” 1.L.0.
is a racket if ever there was one. As it
concerns Australia, all it does is to
furnish a pretext for showering glori-
ous overseas holidays, salaries and
everything paid, on “Labor” Ministers
and members, trade-union delegates
(some of them Communists) and
representatives of employers —and what
they have been doing in the gal-
lery of gaseous deadheads has never
been satisfactorily explained. The
vetoing of the racket would be a blow
to the few “Labor” Ministers and mem-
bers who haven’t had 1.L.0. trips, but it
would lessen the drain on dollars, which
are increasingly scarce.
And if Mr. Chifley is seriously minded
to cut out useless expenditure he will in-
form Mr. Ward when that wanderer re-
turns with his) large party that his
grandiose rail-unification scheme is
“off.” As projected, it would add
£230,000,000 to the capital cost of Gov-
ernment railways, which to June 30,
1940, was reckoned at £376,000,000, and
eat into tax-revenue wholesale.
During the war years camouflaged
transfer of war expenditure to Government
railway income gave those in N.S.W.,
Queensland and Victoria a delusive ap-
pearance of solvency which ended with
the war. And the four other Govern-
ment systems are now in as bad a plight
as ever, if not worse ; and sweeping in-
creases in fares and freight-rates have
been decided upon or are in contempla-
tion, together with savage measures de-
signed to wipe out airline competition.
The N.S.W. Commissioner, quite a
merry old soul during the period of
camouflaged war expenditure, reported
to his Government that if it didn’t come
to the rescue with hastily- and desper-
ately-contrived new “schedules” his
1947-48 loss would reach £7,000,000.
Seven millions! Worse than the actual,
or at least admitted, results for the
two worst depression years: £3,683,900
in 1931 and £3,251,000 in 1932.
"Medical Benefits."
Senator McKenna’s blueprint of the
medical millennium provides for a corps
of doctors, departmentally trained and
covering every settled area, who will be
full-time salaried public servants, re-
tiring at 65 on pensions. There
will be a network of group practice
centres comprehending every aspect of
medical and dental science, and another
network of specialists and diagnostic
centres; and most hospitals will be
taken over; “church hospitals will not
be affected.” There will be no compul-
sion on the public to use the services or
on individual doctors to come inside
them, but it is no secret that it is the
Government’s intention to use the tax-
payers’ money to drive the private prac-
titioner out of the field, just as it hopes
to do in banking and air travel.
8.M.A., to Mr. Chifley a hopelessly
conservative trade-union, has another
idea. It has registered a medical-benefits
scheme under which it proposes to give
contributors g.p., surgical, specialist,
physiotherapy, diagnostic, anesthetic
and other services for much less than
they will have to pay in “Labor” taxes,
and with the right to call in “any doc-
tor or specialist.” And the contributory
rates are specific;
Unmarried man and woman, Is. a week,
50s. a year; over 21, Is. 6d. a week,
£3 15s. a year. Married man and woman,
with or without dependants, or widowed
persons without dependants, 3s. a week,
£7 10s. a year; with, in each case, special
quarterly rates. In a difficult case the weekly,
quarterly or yearly payment will cover the
services of a g.p. (£l5 155.); a specialist
(£l5 155.), a surgeon (£26 55.), a physio-
therapist (£4 10s.); X-ray, bio-chemistry and
pathology, £5 55.; confinements, £3 35.;
anaesthetist, £1 Is. to £2 25., and £3 3s. for
major operations.
And all for a maximum of £7 10s., a
’bagatelle compared with what the aver-
age middle-class familyman has to pay
in social-service tax, or what Mr. Chifley
chooses to call it.
In N. S. Wales the B.M.A.’s medical-
benefits fund is due to “begin operation”
on August 18. It is, however, expected
that the Chifleys will declare it “black”
or something, as being the product of a
hopelessly conservative trade-union.


G 55"?
You can
always rely on
CRAVEN
Al
it&J
OVER ISO YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
At the beginning of the week all that
the Britons had learned from their
“Labor” Administration as to its plans
for getting them out of the mess in which
it landed them was that they would be
obliged to eat less, work more and do
without American films. All this, and
more, by virtue of a bill under which
“the Government can do anything itJ
likes with any individual except throw
him into prison.” This comment came
from “Captain Blackburn (Lab.).” He
must be going to quit.
These Queensland politicians are an
ungrateful lot. Throughout July it was
almost impossible to go anywhere in
their State without seeing a fluid-drive
limousine, complete with Federal poten-
tate and party, all responding to the
Hanlon Government’s drive to make it
a winter tourist resort. Before August
was a week old Hanlon was telling
his Parliament that the uniform-taxation
system should have been “killed at
birth,” and that the Federal “Govern-
ment” was using it “to get control of
the States.” To the taxpayer the ques'-
tion of who grabs his tax money is of
academic interest only; how it is spent
is what concerns him. And when it
comes to spending taxpayers’ money
there’s not much to choose between
Federal “Labor” and State “Labor.”
Reported from Britain that Aneurin
Bevan and Emanuel Shinwell are threat-
ening to resign from the Cabinet if
“nationalisation” of the iron and steel in-
dustries is postponed. There seems to be
no adequate reason why the resignations
of Annie and Mannie should be any
longer postponed.
If that dingy professional concern the
Sydney Rugby League wasn’t known to
be “Labor” it could be identified as such
on the score of the favors it gets from
“Labor” and the mixture of brazenness
and naivete it (urns on when it tries to
explain away something nasty. One of
its mealtickets reeled out of a scrum
clutching what was left of an ear, and
with 'mouth and free paw accusing his
opposite number. The League had to
foot a large bill for medical and hospital
expenses, but since punishment would
have meant the loss of another mealticket
it dismissed the incident as an Act of
God. To Brisbane went the alleged in-
strument of Providence and other meal-
tickets, and hoodlums in the team cut
loose in their pub, doing damage which
Bung reckoned at £llB 13s. Here again,
there was no escaping payment, but again
the League rallied to the rescue of its
mealtickets concerned and what it calls
“the honor of the code.” It pronounced
the pub-wreckers unidentifiable.
In Brisbane an ex-serviceman has had
to obtain a court order against a union
so that he could keep his job. A City
Council drayman, he met with an acci-
dent and lost a leg. The Council offered
him a job as an assistant commissionaire
and he applied for membership of the
Theatrical and Amusement Union, It
was refused on the ground that six men
employed at the City Hall were rostered
for extra work as commissionaires. The
Industrial Court held that the case was
governed by Commonwealth preference
and that he couldn’t be stopped from
getting a job.
Chifley has admitted that in the year
just closed Australian dollar earnings,
despite high prices for wool, were insuffi-
cient to meet outlay. To meet the deficit
Australia bought dollars from Britain.
During the same period the number of
“Labor” Ministers and members roaming
around the world, using up those much-
needed dollars;, reached an all-time high.
Possibly Chif. believes in the old saw
about travel broadening the mind and
considers the investment worth while in
the long-term view. If so he should be
prepared to stand or fall by the effect of
thfc experiment upon Ward and Calwell.
If travel can’t broaden those two skulls
it can’t broaden anything.
Melbourne was in danger of becoming
another Brest or Texas City last Thurs-
day. Drums of sodium chlorate, carried
on the deck of the 10,000-ton refrigeration
ship Mahia at Victoria Dock, exploded
and fiery drums were scattered in all direc-
tions, some igniting a wharf shed and
some falling down open hatches into
a cargo of newsprint and headless
matches. Water was pumped into the
ship from all the brigades in Melbourne
and she heeled over. There was a dread-
ful casualty list; 10 men, all members of
the Painters and Dockers’ Union, were
trapped by the fumes and flames below
deck and were dead when brought up.
According to Chief-Officer Whitehead,
sodium chlorate had been carried
on the Mahia’s deck for a long period and
the drums had probably deteriorated. All
ships carrying such cargoes should fly a
red flag and be unloaded at some re-
mote spot. Harbor Trust chairman Mc-
Kenzie said port rules did not require
the red flag except for explosive cargo,
and sodium chlorate was classed as
Class B Dangerous.” Yet the cargo
being handled in the heart of Melbourne
was so explosive that the safest way of
disposing of charred drums strewn
around the landscape was to dust the
stuff into the sea before it got dry enough
to light up once more.
From the closing stages of the Sydney
Land Sales Control inquiry the good-as-
“ Labor” Pooh-Bah Parry was missing.
Parry land transactions figured in part
—and a large part—of the terms of
reference to the Royal Commission, and
they were certainly matter for wonder to
plain people, particularly widows of
small, thrifty people whose houses —or
equities—had to be sold at 1942 valua-
tion. Parry, it transpired, found that the
state of his health, like that of Keane’s
friend Joe Goldberg, necessitated a sud-
den trip overseas, for which dollars may
or may not have been requisitioned from
the already inadequate pool, and also
his resignation from the Sydney County
Council and the Canterbury Council
of Canterbury, preserved under
“Labor’s” municipal “reform” scheme,
he was mayor. But he remains- an
M.L.C., and perhaps he will be back in
time to vote for “Labor’s” salary ramp,
as he voted for “Labor’s” pensions ramp.
Wonthaggi (Vic.) had a visit last week
from Mr. Gallagher, the Sydney solici-
tor whom “Labor” named chairman of
the Coal Industry Tribunal. Mr. Gal-
lagher’s mission concerned the case of
the weighman who carried out an order
issued to him by the manager of the
State “ ‘Labor’ Government’s” insolvent
coalmine, the sequel being a strike. Mr.
Gallagher instructe4 the manager to
transfer the weighman, “pending the de-
termination of matters in dispute,” to
“other work,” and held to the instruction,
despite the manager’s questioning of his
authority and use of the words “tricked
and duped.” Returning to Sydney, Mr.
Gallagher, who was supposed to be
bound by the Chifley wage-pegging regu-
lations, as altered when the unions ap-
plied pressure, “granted an all-round in-
crease of 3s. a day to Miners’ Federation
day laborers in N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland, and 3s. 6d. a day to mech-
anical-unit men” —this when coal is to be
dearer (if not scarcer) than ever because
of sweeping increases in railway and
shipping freight-rates. It looks as if Mr,
Gallagher’s “tribunal” will not be com-
plete without the services of Mr. Shean.
The feeblest excuse yet offered for the
use of building timber in prefabs being
scattered over Victoria came from Barry,
the “Labor” Housing Minister. As the
timber is Oregon, said Barry, the Oregon
is lying in bond stores for anyone to buy
—if anyone can afford it —so no harm
i& ! being done to the housing programme.
Some of the Oregon is more than three
times the price of ordinary timber, but
if it was imported in time of war to
meet the emergency of the moment it
ought to be allocated to meet the pre-
sent emergency of housing.
' In one of Macaulay’s essays there is
a passage describing how the victorious
armies of Wellington and Bluecher,
marching on Paris, interrupted the
tribunes of the Chamber of Deputies
discussing a new constitution for their
country when it was not certain that
they would have a country. Similarly,
the Labor-socialists in the Commons
staged a debate on the “nationalisation”
of inland transport extending into the
day when Attlee came out with his Spar-
tan proposals for preventing a wholesale
smash. And the Day brought notifica-
tion of an unprecedented rise in railway
charges. It was echoed in Sydney, these
Labor-socialist “Governments” being
very much alike.
Labor-socialist coincidences accumu-
late. While Attlee was telling the British
coalminers they would have to work
another half-hour a day, making the
working week 42 % hours, Communist
bosses of the N.S.W. coalminers were
completing their plans for a 35-hour
week, which means 35 hours on the sur-
face and at most 31 hours underground.
Yet, after seven months, strikes
on the northern coalfields had cost the
country 1,154,000 tons, compared with
the corresponding period of 1946, a
rotten year,
Isaac Isaacs turned 92 on August 5,
greatly troubled about the atrocities in
Palestine —years ago he warned the ex-
treme. Zionists that, having adopted the
Nazi philosophy, they would inevitably
turn to Nazi methods of violence—but
with undiminished confidence ,in the
future of his native land:
About half-way through my life came the
Federal Convention. All, or perhaps all
but one of those who, with me, helped to
frame the great instrument that created this
Commonwealth have passed away. But the
instrument itself remains, instinct with a
vital force that can enable the nation at
any time, if the people wish, to rise to a
nobler and wider nationhood,
Isaac Isaacs was fifth on the list
of Victorians elected to the Federal
Convention of 1897 —there were ten each
from Victoria, N. S. Wales, South Aus-
tralia, Westralia (their Parliament chose
them ) and Tasmania, He is the sole
survivor.
Bathurst (N.S.W.) was disturbed last
week by “eerie screams.” It is suspected
that some taxpayer in Chifley’s town,
already brooding on Federal “Labor’s”
salary steal, had got advance informa-
tion of N.S.W. “Labor’s” salary steal.
But for Liberal-campaign bungling in
N. S. Wales 11 months ago Hugh Rober-
ton would have become C.P. member
for Riverina. President of the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers’, Roberton, a man
of parts, laid down the proposition in a
presidential address that the produce of
the land, all charges having been met,
belongs entirely to the producer; it is
a proposition disputable only by Social-
ists and Communists, who feed on
sophistries. Roberton said also that the
ragged remnants of the Scully proposals
seemed to have become Canberra’s last
word on wheat stabilisation. He added
that at the forthcoming Con-
ference the States would be asked to
accept the principle that land produce
belonged to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment.
It will be put to them that the discharge
of the farmers’ lawful obligations is sub-
ject to the prior right of the Common-
wealth to sell land produce at any price
and pay for it at any price, at any time.
And if F. and S. members wanted a
classic example of “this corruption,” they
need only study the N.Z. wheat deal.
The Ross statement (B. 6/ 8 / ’47) that
Queensland “Labor” did not intend
to launch any more State enterprises was,
it transpires, disputed by Gair, Hanlon's
deputy. “The question will not be de-
cided by any public servant,” Gair
boomed. “We reserve the right to en-
gage in trade and compete in industry.”
“Labor” always did reserve the right to
imperil its country’s solvency by trying to
extract moonshine from watermelons.
There is no truth in the rumor that
Dr. Evatt had a nightmare aboard
H.M.A.S. Hobart, toting him back from
Japan. Even if he did have one it was
not a tinned-crab dream of the Hobart
springing a leak and having to send an
SOS to a Dutch ship.
According to Melbourne “Age,”
always on intimate terms-with “Labor,”
shipping freight-rates are to go up
66i p.c., the “Government” being about
to return the ships to their owners.
Chifley protests that “the extent of the
increase cannot be stated in the form of
a percentage,” but he admits that they
will approximate £2,000,000 a year. Costs
to industries in all States (since they all
receive coal by sea) will go up in pro-
portion and a bit more. So will the price
of sugar and other necessaries carried in
the coasting trade. Railway fares and
freight-rates have already been increased
in three States, with more to come.
In N. S. Wales the 40-hour week, with
tram and bus fares and electricity charges
up, has already wiped out any lingering
remnant of benefit to the worker from
the increased basic wage of last
December. Queenslanders and Tas-
manians are presently to enjoy it —and
pay through the nose for the blessing.
Scotsmen founded the Australian
shipping industry, and it used to be a
credit to the country in every way. Be-
fore the Chifleys and Beasleys placed it
under “control”-— i.e., a despotism of
socialism tempered by the Communist
anarchy of the maritime unions—ship-
ping scrip was as solid as anything in
the sharemarket. The subjoined table
shows how that barometer registers its
decline, compared with the rise of retail
stores;
_ June, August,
Shipping Cos. 1941. 1947.
Newcastle and Hunter River 41s. 9d. 345. Od.
North Coast 41s. 6d. 335. 3d.
Illawarra 38s. 3d. 31s. 6d.
Adelaide Steam 275. 3d. 30s. 3d.
Melbourne .. 245. 3d. 255. 9d.
June, August,
Retail Stores. 1941. 1947.
David Jones 31s. 6d. 535. lOd,
Farmers 245. 6d. 48s. Od.
Myers .. .. 295. 6d. 48s. Od.
Buckley and Nunn .. .. ' 18s. Od. 355. 9d.
Finney Isles 255. Od. 455. 6d.
McWhirters 14s. 9d. 31s. 3d.
And a comparison with pubs and
breweries would be more melancholy
still.
So little prestige has U.N.0., so vast
has been the disappointment in hopes of
it, that the departure from Beirut of the
commission investigating the -Palestine
case was nowhere treated as of any par-
ticular interest. The commission’s in-
vestigations in the Middle East are over.
Nobody expects its report to be unani-
mous. It spent four weeks listening to
Jewish arguments and two days in hear-
ing Arab views. Indications are that it
will recommend “some scheme of parti-
tion.”
Menzies, in a burst of impatience:
If every Government in the Empire had
the same views on world affairs as the one
at Canberra, the. Empire would dissolve
next year. The Government has sat for
two years quietly puffing its pipe.
Not for two years surely. There was an
election-campaign interval during which
the leader of the Government put away
his pipe because the Snakecharmers’
Union objected that it couldn’t get a con-
tinuous supply of pipe tobacco.


NO CARE TAKEN, NOR ANY RESPONSIBILITY.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Exdig”: Anent that epithet “used in
the Forces almost as a term of endear-
ment,” I always remember the remarks
of a rough diamond named Sam Sharp
as illustrative of the various meanings
the word could be given. A dashing
young officer who was liked by every-
body had been wounded by machine-gun
fire while we were out on patrol; he died
by the time we reached the trench. Sam
was moved. “Poor blankard!” he said
regretfully. “Me was a good blankard;
not many blankards were as game as
him. I suppose when they send us an-
other blankard he’ll be a regular blankard,
The blankards!”
* * * *
“Hep-2-3-4”: In slating the army for
using the word “personnel,” London
“Times” declared “It is an alien collec-
tive”; —
Personnel do not go; they proceed. They
do not have; they are in possession of.
They do not ask; they make application
for. They consume —not eat; they make
ablutions —not wash. Instead of living,
they are domiciled.
After that broadside the panting “Times”
ceased fire. I’d like to hear it on another
Army term —the dismal way a group of
men are classed as so many “bodies.”
Granted, the cooks in training camps
could bring this state about in time, but
theirs is slow poison, and frequent troop
movements keep casualties low. There-
fore, to get the origin of the Army term
“body” as applied to “bloke,” one would
probably have to dig back to one of those
500 p.c. mortality stoushes they favored
in the Middle Ages, wherein the foot-
slogger had Buckley’s chance of ever
attending an R.S.L. shindig.
♦ * * ♦
“D.A.P.”: While I agree with the
Sundry Showman’s verdict on the Inde-
pendent Theatre’s production of “The
Beggar’s Opera,” I must query his spelling
of the title. He makes it “Beggars’ ” and
retains the possessive plural throughout
the review. I don’t know whether the
title derives from the fact that Gay
begged, borrowed or lifted the tunes for
it, or from the Beggar in the cast who
purports to be the author of the piece,
but either case would call , for “Beggar’s.”
That’s the way my copy of the pro-
gramme spells it, anyway, and it is in
agreement with Edward J. Dent’s Opera,
Oscar Thompson’s Cyclopedia of Music
and Musicians, Eric Blom’s Everyman’s
Dictionary of Music, Bartlett’s Familiar
Quotations and Collins’s Authors’ and
Printers’ Dictionary.
Enter the Showman; “Beggar’s” it
must be, since to the authorities listed
agin me can be added John Parker’s
Who’s Who in the Theatre and Grove’s
Dictionary of Music and Musicians. I
plead in mitigation that both Boswell and
the Encyclopaedia Britannica (1911) use
“Beggars’,” but since the title page of
“The Third Edition: With the Ouverture
in Score,” “curiously engrav’d on copper
plates” and published in 1729, makes it
“Beggar’s” I am forced to join Boswell
and Britannica in dignified retreat.
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: The seemingly never-
ending gale which lashed southern States
recently provided material evidence for
a debate which was proceeding in the
Kingsborough (Tas.) council chambers.
Councillors were arguing the merits of a
resolution that the Attorney-General be
asked to have repairs done to the danger-
ous, unhealthy and antiquated chambers
when the wind whisked off three posts of
the verandah and a good slice of the roof,
while the swaying of a large outbuilding
contributed to the turmoil. Unshaken,
the heroic Bumbles continued the discus-
sion, but when loose iron and timber
began to pound the building an adjourn-
ment vote was taken and promptly
carried.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: At least one of those
night-call ’phone girls must have won-
dered why she was abused for faithfully
fulfilling a request (B. 23/7/’47).
Promptly at 3 a.m. she rang the number
given the night before. There was a
long pause before an irate, sleepy voice
answered. “It’s three o’clock, Mr. Blank,”
the girl announced cheerily. “Good
morning.” An incredulous voice replied,
“Is that all you want to say?” “Yes, of
course,” the ’phone girl answered. “What
else would you expect me to say?” She
never found out—Mr. Blank was too
busy expressing his opinion of damn-
fool girls who drag a man out of his
warm bed just to tell him it’s three
o’clock. Neither of them could be ex-
pected to know that Blank junior had
lodged the call as a reprisal for parental
corrective action.
* * * *
“Marilag”: That “European” classi-
fication in the recent census papers
cropped up years ago on T.I. In a very
“It’s all right, chaps—I've only booked in for the night!”
mixed population—about four-fifths were
colored —the Northern outpost’s white
residents were desirous of drawing a line.
Under pressure of opinion, formed after
some new arrivals had expressed their
horror at white having to use the same
seawater as black, the City Fathers
instructed the caretaker of the public
baths to put up a large notice board —
“For Europeans only.” A friend of my
acquaintance was gazing sorrowfully at
the sign a day or two after when the
Town Clerk came along. “I wanted to
go in for a dip,” he murmured, “but I
see I’m cut out! ” The official demurred.
“Oh, no! —you see what it says, Euro-
peans only! All whites are all right, of
course —that’s only to cut out the
coloreds!” “Well,” said the other, “I’m
an Australian —English father, Scotch
mother; but I’ve never seen Europe, so
I’m sure I’m not a European!” The
notice board was down next day, though
probably those who enjoyed the joke
most were the colored citizens.
* * * ♦
T.P.M.”: Outback Jay Pees? I recall
one in western N.S.W. who sat in judg-
ment on a drunk. After hearing the
evidence he announced, “I find you guilty
and fine you ss. or the rising of the
Court and may the Lord have mercy on
your soul.”
* * * *
“Penelope’s Mate”: Under the cool
shadow of a Mitsubishi building, pro-
viding sumptuous quarters for Jap civil
officials, Buck and I were sleeping off
the effects of a morning’s work plus 50
grammes of rice and sand. A silvery
voice woke us and we saw a dainty
kimonoed lady beckoning to us from a
doorway. Always suspicious of any Jap
we were ready to go the other way, but
she called, “Australie. Presento. No
man home.” Inside we discovered that
the lady’s main idea was to show us how
civilised a Jap can be in his living. We
admired the furnishings, the electric fans,
the showers and porcelain baths. Buck
with his G-string was at a disadvantage,
but with special scrounging pockets in
my shorts and shirts 1 spoiled the
Egyptians a treat; slabs of soap, a bottle
of ink, a newspaper, tooth powder, and
even some quinine tablets. On the way
out Mrs. Nippon stepped around in front
of us. She was still smiling when she
said: “You steal. I understand. You
keep all. Give back paper.” I did so,
glad to get off lightly. “To know news
make you unhappy. Now one more pre-
sento.” She disappeared, then returned
with a parcel of rice cakes. We went
back to a slogging afternoon’s work think-
ing well of womanhood and wondering
why the heck she had wrapped the cakes
in the pilfered paper. That night the
Dutch translator was able to tell us that
Saipan was ours.
* * * *
“Passun”: The radio play had reached
an interesting stage when politely but
firmly a “dinkum Aussie” voice spoke
through the Austral-American accents
of thfe players. “Hullo, exchange!
There’s someone on the line.” Exchange
was slow to her cue and it needed the
rattle of a receiver arm to bring her on
the air with a well-modulated inquiry.
Then, all serene, but quieter than the now
unimportant play the unbilled performer
went on with his conversation. His voice
gradually grew louder ; he rattled up ex-
change again .with the news that he
couldn’t hear for a “bloomin’ ” wireless.
Exchange’s reply was lost in the roar of
“You’re nuts, baby” from the studio.
Nerves were fraying, voices louder, from
telephone to exchange and back ; and the
play, noisy and Hollywooden, brought a
Bedlam crescendo But above it all came
a tremendous frenzied roar from the
frustrated conversationalist, “I didn’t pay
tuppence to listen to a blasted radio
serial! ”
* * * *
“Cedi Mac”: There is some room for
argument about the “have got” question,
“C. 8.” (B. 16/7/’47). It is, of course, the
correct perfect tense of the verb “to get,”
wlple the “have” used alone is no longer
a humble auxiliary, but a finite verb. It
is wrong to use “have got” when the
simple fact of possession is to be indi-
cated, for “got” implies that some effort
has first been exerted—hence perhaps the
common use of the phrase “got
married”? For instance, though I
would not say, “I have got a cold,” I
should feel quite justified in exclaiming
(if the occasion arose) “I have got a seat
in the tram,”
* * ♦ *
“Cauboy”: Unconsciously-determined
printing errors? This appeared in an
“Age” notice of a Miklos Gafni concert,
written by a critic who possibly thought
that the Hungarian tenor’s Caruso reputa-
tion rested more on his popularity with
the musical hoi-polloi, than on his ability
as an artist:
Mobzart’s aria, “This Vision Is Surpass-
ing Fair,” began with engaging tonal
qualities, which fell off somewhat towards
the end.
♦ * * *
“Bingo”: It is to be hoped some photo-
grapher has already preserved a record
of that Cooktown (N.Q.) frieze (B.
23/7/’47). If not, it is up to the Queens-
land Tourist Bureau to do so. That hotel
is old, and will some day be pulled do.wn
or go up in smoke.
* * # »
“Lao-dah”: Reports of acts of
violence and arson against Chinese in
Java when the Javanese became national-
istic were to be expected. The Chinese
stand to the Javanese in much the same
relation as the Jew does to the non-Jew
in Europe. Eng Wat is much more
focussed on money-making than his fel-
low-Asiatic, has a better business head
and is, generally speaking, more indus-
trious and better educated. He owns a
large proportion of the shipping, sugar,
rice and rubber factories in the island,
and his expensive mansions and spacious
gardens are to be seen in every city. He
was there before the advent of the
Europeans, and he has always been
a convenient excuse for the natives’
feelings of frustration. Bloody mass-
acres of the Celestial population
have long been a feature of Javanese
history. More than once Batavia’s
Chinatown has been burnt to the
ground and thousands have been
slaughtered ; but it wasn’t long before
it was as populous as ever. Yet the
Chinaman, unlike the Jew, is not exclu-
sive, He has no prejudice against inter-
marrying with any race under heaven,
and his religious tolerance is quite Con-
fucian.
* * * *
“Plop”: As the bank teller wrote ticks
on my withdrawal form I noticed a
pistol lying among some wads of notes
at his side. “Lethal-looking weapon,” I
observed, “ever used it?” “Once ; he
got as far as the door.” As I counted
my money I brightly remarked “Well, I
won’t rob this bank.” Every teller
within earshot let his counting-finger go
dry as he took me in with stony
scrutiny. Whenever I visit that bank
now the same hush falls and I visualise
their feet poised above hidden beH-
pushes. Sooner or later lam bound to
pass in a bad two bob or make a mis-
take in figures on my pay-in slip. And
I will die, riddled and choking with tear-
gas, all because I tried to crack a joke
with a suspicious high priest of the
temple of finance.
* * * *
“Bogan Joe”:’’ One of the many jobs
the C.S.I.R. did during the war was the
research that led up to the production
of agar from seaweed. This product,
which we previously imported from
Japan, is used largely in making jellies
with very valuable qualities necessary in
meat canning, bacteriology, tooth pastes,
dental-impression materials and many
other important purposes. Before the
war the Nips produced 95 per cent, of
world output; Australian production at
the end of the war topped that of any
Allied nation. C.S.I.R. men looked into
the occurrence, harvesting and prepara-
tion of the seaweed as the raw material
and the chemistry and technology of the
actual agar production. As fast as in-
formation was gleaned at the fisheries
laboratory at Cronulla it was passed on
to manufacturers, and in this way a new
industry was given to Australia. Rather
belatedly, though. I can remember the
extraction of agar from seaweed being
mooted in Westralia more than 30 years
ago.
* * * *
“Melbn”; Artificial rain production?
A sudden shower in a Bourke-street em-
porium sent scores of shoppers scamper-
ing for shelter, drenched some so much
that they had to be supplied with new
dresses free and caused £5OOO damage to
stocks. The sprinkler system had gone
into unpremeditated action,
“Rookie”: “Gripes!” said the bloke in
the corner seat with a sort of incredu-
lous explosion ; “look at this,” We all
looked. It was a newspaper advertise-
ment of a leading store, for children’s
toys. Among more conventional gew-
gaws were mentioned “head-and-tail”
dice and miniature crown-and-anchor
boards. We all goggled. Then: “Why
stop there?” someone wanted to know.
“Why not give the kids one-armed
bandits and bookies’ bags?” “Or ducky
little bottles of ‘steam’?” the bloke in
the corner suggested. The setting, by
the way, was on board “The Fish” —the
Blue Mountains commuters’ train —where
philosophical conversation is not uncom-
mon. And each of us had that philoso-
phical cast of countenance men acquire
early in life trying to beat the crown-
and-anchor board in the army,
* * * *
“Niloc”: Beware Messrs. Ward and
Calwell! A precedent has been estab-
lished for those who make a habit of
claiming they are misquoted by the press.
The current titleholder in America is
Henry Wallace, and at a recent news-
paper conference in which he figured, the
scribes took the precaution of installing
a radio-microphone on the speaker’s
table, so that listeners could judge for
themselves how far reports of his state-
ments had erred. Wallace woke up to
the trap and put the mike on the floor
beneath his foot. Although it sounded
a bit muffled, the radio audience did hear
his speech. The speech was later pre-
sented over the air as “what Helnry
Agard Wallace sounds like talking
through his left foot.”
IN HIS OLD FORM.
“There will be no recovery for Britain until the
guilty men whose crazy theories and personal incom-
petence have led us into so much needless misfortune
have been driven from power.” —Winston Churchill,
He never minced his words, did Win,
Or pulled his punches, you’ll agree,
And, seems unlikely to begin
A milder role at seventy-three.
Ignoring vocal subtleties,
In straight-flung terms, with scorn intense,
He hammers “crazy theories”
And “personal incompetence.”
In England’s direst, darkest days
How skilfully and oft he struck
The resonantly ringing phrase,
<The pithy note that stirred and stuck.
And who so quick at verbal fence
The opportunity to seize
Of rating dull incompetence
And mocking moonstruck theories?
What pungent sentences he hurled,
What sabre-cuts of speech he’d say,
To peal and echo round the world
When Britain held her foes at bay!
This yet may hold a place with these,
Albeit in a peaceful sense,
The tilt at crazy theories
And personal incompetence.
Though launched at Attlee’s coterie,
One thinks of other Labor birds
Who might be well-advised to see
A warning tip in Winston’s words.
No Government but gives offence
Or can expect for long to please
Against the damning evidence
Of personal incompetence
Combined with crazy theories.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Jasby”; A fact often remarked on
by students of language is the decline
and decay of words through misuse and
bad associations. Walter Raleigh—not
the man with the muddy cloak, but his
namesake, who was Professor of English
Literature at Oxford for many years and
a delightful essayist with a rare, donnish
humor —wrote something on the subject
50 years ago which would give the old
boy a quiet chuckle could he read it
today. In his Essay on Style he wrote:
How hardly will poetry consent to employ
such words as “congratulation” or “phil-
anthropist” words of good origin but
tainted by long immersion in fraudulent
rejoicings and pallid, comfortable, theoretic
loves. How eagerly will the poetic imagina-
tion seize on a word like “control,” which
gives scope by its very vagueness, and is
fettered by no partiality of association.
In the years that have faded since Raleigh
held it up as a shining example the word
“control” has fallen among evil associ-
ates. No longer unfettered, it has become
a synonym for the fetters of bureaucracy
and is scarcely fit company even for the
two words with which he contrasted it
half a century ago. In its decline it has
proved the professor’s point more surely
than he could have hoped,
* * * *
The Curator of the Australian War
Museum at Canberra recently received
from an anonymous donor, who asked for
acknowledgment through the columns of
The Bulletin, a Boer War medal and
the following letter:
Under separate cover I am sending you
a S. African War Medal (Queen’s) with
one clasp, which I retrieved from the
ignominy of a pawnbroker’s shop. You
will see that the owner’s name, number
and regiment have been removed from the
edge of the medal for obvious reasons —
poor devil! I have cleaned it up—it was
very dirty—and attached a new ribbon and
brooch. Will you please accept this medal
for your museum and give it a place of
honor?
Yours faithfully,
Ex-Imp. Army Volunteer, 1900-02.
The, Director of the War Museum has
written that the gift “has been received, is
appreciated, and will fbe included in the
collection.”
* * * *
“Wigwag”: Tell “Lord Luvus” (B.
30/7/’47) that “Bo” is in good company
as regards his opinion of long hair.
When Montgomery landed at Parafield
(S.A.) a youth with fair and flowing locks
was delighted when the great man stopped
to pose specially for his benefit. The
delight was somewhat tempered by
Monty’s kindly remark when the camera
was lowered. “Need a bit of a haircut,
don’t you, lad?”
* * * *
“Oxmead”; I wish some recognised
authority, such as Professor Murcloch,
would tell me the correct pronunciation
of the word “columnist” (B. 6/8/’47). Is
the “n” mute, as in the parent word, or
does it emerge from the shadow of the
“m” to call attention to its own existence,
on the analogy of terms like “solemnity”
and “condemnation”? Opinions seem
divided. The only other derivative of
“column” that I can find in my diction-
aries is “columnar,” where the “n” is
obviously vocal, but this introduces a
new difficulty, for the accent is placed on
the second syllable, making it columnar.
Should, then, the word that has recently
butted into the language be pronounced
co-/wm-nist?
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Pawang”: Well-meaning folk in Britain
have suggested a censorship of fairytales,
“Little Red Riding Hood” being men-
tioned as a particularly baneful example.
Parents often fix bad associations on their
children in much more subtle ways than
fairy stories. I met a man the other day
who told me hfe had named his child after
a particularly brutal murderer. He thought
it rather funny, but to call a child after
a criminal is a very dangerous proceed-
ing. It wouldn’t make a murderer of
him, any more than reading about the
wolf that sprang on poor old grandma
would make a child into a maneater, but
it might easily harm him in other ways.
I can well imagine the agonies a child
might suffer if he had to make his way
through the world with a name like
Deeming. I was nicknamed “Crippen” at
school owing to a fancied resemblance
“Henry, you have an annoying habit of making
me look small in front of people."
between my name and that of the first
murderer caught per medium of wireless.
* * * *
“X.S.”: More evidence of the housing
shortage— not that it’s needed. I once
lived in a house next to one in which
five years previously a woman had been
murdered. It was empty when I got there
and it was empty when I left three years
later. The killing of a bachelor who
lived a secluded life in a house in Box
Hill, Melbourne, occurred the other day.
While homicide squad detectives were in-
vestigating footprints and bloodstains, an
applicant for the dwelling arrived ; she
had got up at five in the jnorning to get
there early,
* * * *
“Pater”: I wish those science maga-
zines would test their “New Invention”
theories before they publish them. My
kid recently produced one of the journals,
together with pieces 'of wood, some tin
and wires. “It tells you how to make
the Atomic Mousetrap,” he announced.
I looked the article over, relieved the lad
of his tools and showed him how to build
it. We nailed the two blocks of wood
together at right angles, tacked a sheet
of tin to the base-piece, and screwed a
curtain hook into the upright. Then, by
attaching wires to the tin and the hook,
and plugging them into a wall socket,
we had the masterpiece almost com-
pleted. We finished the job by hanging
a piece of cheese on the hook, and placed
the contrivance on the floor near the
mouse-hole; the idea, of course, being
to kill the marauder by electrocution.
“I bet the boss two bob I could pick out a double-yolker!"
It works beautifully. It tells you when
you’ve caught one, too, by fusing every
blooming light in the place.
* * '* »
“Mitre”: Ghost trains (B. 9/7/’47)?
A few years ago a goods truck over-
ran the tracks on a Melbourne wharf
and plunged into the river. The diver
sent below to investigate spent a few
minutes in the murky depths and then
signalled to be brought to the surface.
“Well,” said the official from the wharf,
“did you find it?” “I think so,”
answered the diver. “Which one do you
want? I’ve found five.”
* * * *
“Marmalade”: All escaping p.-0.-w.
didn’t follow the tunnel-and-hide-’n’-seek
technique. “Going through” from one Aus-
trian stalag was simplified by the prac-
tice of farming out p.-0.-w. to a labor-
starved countryside. H Aftet time the
locals ceased to stare after
wanderers in faded foreign
uniforms. A mate of mine
and two others were head-
ing in the general direc-
tion of the Swiss frontier.
Their provisions consisted
chiefly of hoarded Red
Cross cigarettes; as food-
getters the cigs. had more
prestige than the gold
standard. A three weeks’
Odyssey had brought them
within 40 kilometres of
the frontier when they
walked into half a dozen
Fritz soldiers. “Halt!
Englishers, where you
go?” The runaways ex-
plained that they’d been
working for a cockie over
there —gesturing vaguely
eastward—and were pro-
ceeding on*a similar mis-
sion over there with
equal impartiality towards
the horizon. But the
lance-corp., in a three-
minute quiz, broke down
their bluff. He became
grim. “Escaped prisoners,
hein! Then it becomes
our duty to escort you
back to the stalag. To the
station, march!” All at
once a fair-haired joker
broke in with a snarl of
words. One-stripe snapped
back. The others joined
in the general earbash-
ing. At last their leader wavered,
then turned with a grin on his prisoners.
“Hans say right. If we take you back
to stalag we lose a week of our leave.
And we sign papers . . . and papers . . .
and papers—you know.” He jerked a
thick thumb towards Switzerland, barking
“Himmel not! EnglishCrs, scram!”
* * * *
From “A.Q.”:
“Exdig” (B. 9/7/’47) was a bit astray re-
garding Torzillo’s harp. Torzillo was in an
Australian tunnelling company, and during the
German advance on March 21, 1918, his
harp had to be abandoned in the general
retreat together with the tools and plant
of the tunnellers. About a month later
when the Fourth Division was in the Somme
area Torzillo’s transfer to that unit was
arranged at the instigation of George Castles,
of “The Smart Set,” the Divvy concert party.
Thus we acquired a harpist, but no harp.
Castles suggested he and Torzillo should be
allowed to go to Paris to buy one. The con-
cert party’s bank account had a good credit
balance, so they were sent to Paris with 3500
francs to purchase the best harp they could
find for the money. They discovered an old
Frenchman who had a number of the instru-
ments stored in a basement. A harp was
selected but the old man was reluctant to
part with it as it had been left for safe keep-
ing and the owner had been killed in the
war. However, he let it go for about 3100
francs. Castles (a tenor) and Torzillo became
the star turn of “The Smart Set.” On the
break-up of the concert party Torzillo was
allowed 19 keep the harp as his “tool of trade,”
his own instrument having been lost by enemy
action. While “The Smart Set” were quartered
at a technical school in Amiens Torzillo found
in the library a book on celebrated harps in
which his Paris harp was described and illus-
trated. The following is an excerpt from a
letter to H.Q., 4th Aus. Division, from, Cap-
tain Maude, D.A.P.M., Amiens, dated
18/11/T8: “I have again been requested by
the Bishop of Amiens to thank you for so
kindly allowing your band to play at the
Te Deum of Thanksgiving in the Cathedral
which took place yesterday, and also for per-
mitting Corporal Castles and the harpist of
your concert party to give Gounod’s ‘Ave
Maria,’ which caused a very deep impression
upon the congregation.” After his return to
Australia Torzillp played in the Prince Edward
orchestra in Sydney for some years. Castles,
who is Amy’s brother, is still going strong
in Melbourne.
♦ * * •
“Frank Mauri”: Nusa, an ex-German
patrol vessel captured at the 1914 occupa-
tion of Rabaul, was commanded by a
young lieutenant who was a bit weak
on his signalling. His first job was the
delivery of important papers to Madang
and orders were to destroy them if an
enemy vessel was sighted—Scharnhorst
and Gneisenau were believed to be in
those waters. Appearance of a grey hull
sent the Nusa into top speed, but the
chase was a short one. Lieutenant barely
had time to drop the weighted box over-
board before the cruiser was alongside.
But from her bridge boomed unmistak-
ably a British voice. “Can’t you read
signals? What the hell are you running
away for?” It was H.M.A.S. Encounter.
* * * *
“A.L.A.” (Fiji); A curiously thought-
ful way of breaking bad news was chosen
by an Indian cook who had been with
us for years. Coming to the verandah
where I sat reading, he began to peer all
around and under chairs until he had
thoroughly aroused my interest, and then
asked, “Where’s Tibby, Memsahib?”
Tibby was our mongrel cat. I replied, “I
don’t know. I haven’t seen him this morn-
ing.” Still looking around he ventured “I
think Tibby sick.” “Do you?” 1
queried. “What makes you think that?”
He continued to look around searchirigly
and finally hazarded, “I think Tibby
dead! ” He then added, “The overseer
like to see you, Memsahib.” Going to
the back door I found the overseer wait-
ing! to tell me how sorry he was that he
had shot Tibby the night before, having
mistaken Tib for a wild cat which had
been raiding his chicken run.
* *
“Ike Hollar”: There are pampered
“hairdos” for men. One beauty parlor
has among its regulars a wharfie
who comes to have the corns on
his hands treated and a general overhaul.
A sign in an establishment devoted to
“foundations” reads “Men’s Section at
the Back.” An inquiry brought the in-
formation that the men’s section was so
busy that an appointment for a fitting
was necessary. The straight figures of a
couple of exquisites who left the place
together were evidently due to “founda-
tions.” They looked the type; yet both
were wearing service badges.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: I notice Richard
Tauber is coming this way again, this
time as a conductor. I don’t mind that
so long as he doesn’t come as a com-
poser. One of the strangest things about
these great executants of the work of
other people is their poverty of imagina-
tion when they turn to creative work.
Pianists especially seem to come under
this law. One told me he had dreamt of a
symphony so glorious that he woke up,
got out of bed and wrote the whole thing
down, then went to bed exulting, intend-
ing to try it over on the piano in the
morning. He was horribly disappointed.
“That’s the Fifth Symphony, that’s the
Seventh, that’s a bit of that Brahms con-
certo, that’s* a couple of bars from
Mozart,” he murmured to himself as he
played it over. The portions he couldn’t
recognise as anybody’s but his own were
so commonplace and feeble that he de-
cided to give up composing forthwith.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: The brief obit, of Victor
Prince (B. 16/7/’47) made no mention
of his greatest Australian feat: he
“potted” comic operas and musical
comedies so that they could be handled
by companies of about a dozen people
and took them around the country
towns. Madame Simonsen used to do
the same thing in the long-ago with grand
opera. Such methods gave a multitude
of people in the country whose visits to
metropolitan areas were few, if any, an
opportunity for acquiring a knowledge
of musical plays that have become
classics.
# * ♦ *
“Teller”: It happened a couple of
decades ago. “They might as well knock
a man down and rob him,” said Mingey,
as with a woeful air he flung on the
bank manager’s table an official envelope
and its blue paper. He owned three
Western Land leases, each about 10,240
acres and fully stocked, plus a good class
of residence in the little town west of
the Barwon. His comfortable position
was in my mind as T read the letter. It
was an assessment for “dog tax”—an
impost of a penny for every 25 acres
owned within a certain distance of the
wire-netting fence between N.S.W. and
Queensland; twenty-five bob. I have
often wonderfed since what would have
happened had the old fellow lived to re-
ceive one of Chif’s income-tax assess-
ments when rates were at their peak.
PUBS AND CLUBS.
Come, brother, let us turn aside a mo
From grievous happenings across the Lme,
i From mounting tales of tragicstnfeandwoe
In Java. Greece and hapless Palestine.
Bethink here, too, we’ve problems of our own
To settle riddles full of snags and rubs—
And one reserved for New South Wales alone,
The diff’rences dividing clubs from pubs.
None, says McGirr, when liquor-trading hours
Have been determined by a
Others are found invoking legal powers
To prove the difference is quite a bit.
Well-meaning wowsers raise their voices high
And temperance fanatics thump their tubs
And exercise their lungs to testily
That what is good for pubs is good for clubs.
The Bungs presumably don’t care a pin
That trading hours for them have got so lew.
The briefer space to do their business in
They have, it seems to me, the more they do.
The lawless traffickers in furtive booze.
Purveyors of the dope that custom dubs
Sly-grog, have most to gain and least to lose
When bars are closed alik’e in clubs and pubs.
Ah, well, the knotty question, you’ll agree,
The point at issue that’s as yet untried
Is not for laymen such as you and me
But for our courts of justice to decide.
Of all the wheels that whirl our lives around
It’s obvious they constitute the hubs,
So we must wait perforce till they expound
The clear distinction between pubs and clubs.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


TIME ADDS VALUE
• • • fo Savings Certificates as well!
4
K
\ M ' /
h •
////
/
’j*
/
m
t •' /
0*
/i /
From month-old calf
to full-grown bull—there’s a
steady increase in value!
Time adds value, too, to
War Savings Certificates if
you don’t cash them!
War Savings Certificates
bought in 1940, and now
about to mature, will, if you
retain them, continue to
increase in value for the
next five years at the same
rate as the new 5-year Sav-
ings Certificates now on sale
(see chart below).
Retention of War Savings
Certificates means that you
keep your savings intact and
still earning better than
bank interest ... you avoid
spending in these times of
shortages, substitutes, poor
values and inflationary ten-
dencies . . . you’ll have a
fund of money available for
use later on, when better
values, better qualities, and
a wider choice of goods are
available again.
SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
—a first-class investment!
There is no better place for your
savings than Savings Certifi-
cates —both those you already
hold and the new 5 -year series.
(1) They are cashable at any
time. (2) Increase in value is
better than bank interest. (3)
This increase is free from
taxation.
In addition to War Savings Cer-
tificates, you can hold Savings
Certificates of £230 face value.
So hold the 01d ... buy the new.
Don'f cash your maturing War Savings
Certificates .•. they will continue to increase
in value at the same rate as the
NEW 5-YEAR
SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
550.15.122.77
THAT'
4.
v.
The
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you- can guard against
difficulties and loss which might arise should your Executor die or
become incapacitated. By means of such a codicil you can name Burns
Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint Executor with your present appointee or,
if you wish, as sole Executor. In this way you gain positive assurance
of continuous and sound administration and are relieved of a serious
anxiety. The Company will willingly forward full particulars.
DIRECTORS —Janies Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Eee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR ♦ TRUSTEE' 9 AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
Our Worst Tragedy.
“Ek Dum”: This week sees the second
anniversary of the end of the dreadful
tragedy of Sandakan, now almost for-
gotten save by those directly affected.
On August 6 the Sandakan march was
recalled in an eloquent lecture by Major
C. F. W. Jackson, who investigated
Japanese atrocities in Borneo and the
part played by natives in helping Aus-
tralian prisoners-of-war, before the Sig-
nals Group of the Reserve of Officers in
Sydney. Few more moving and tferrible
stories of war have ever been told.
In July, 1942, five months after the
fall of Singapore, the Japanese began to
organise p.-o.-w. into groups and to
dispatch them to districts whose sinister
names have passed into the history of the
fighting services.
One of these groups, about 1500 Aus-
tralians, known as “B” Force, was placed
on a small, cramped vessel on July 8
and arrived at Sandakan on July 18.
What happened till September, 1943,
to “B” Force and other bodies of troops
“Good show, Hobbs —but a teaspoon of sherry to the brew would
improve it!"
sent to Sandakan has been told in these
columns at length (B. 9/10/’46 and B.
16/10/’46). The accuracy of this recon-
structed account Major Jackson con-
firmed during his speech.
Subsequent events, however, were,
until the major’s very thorough inquiries
were made, somewhat obscure. But the
terrible story is now complete.
In September, 1943, after the discovery
of the Taylor-Matthews organisation
which was engaged in succoring the
troops within the camps in providing
radio news' of the outside world both for
the p.-0.-w. and for the British interned
on Berhala Island, the Japanese decided
to send all officers among the prisoners,
with a very jew exceptions, to Kuching,
the theory being that the men would be
easier to control without the officers.
The main task of the prisoners was
still, at that time, the building of the
Sandakan aerodrome, which the Japanese
commander had told them would be
finished even if it took “three years' or
until their bones rotted in the jungle.”
There had been, at peak, about 2750
captives in the camps at the Eight-Mile
Peg on Sandakan’s lone 12 miles of bitu-
men road. These were disposed in three
compounds—“B” Force, “E” Force —•
which had come 500 strong, having left
Singapore in April, 1943—and 750
British troops.
Basher Gang at Work
After the officers left the number of
men was reduced to 2200. Supervision was
tightened up and food allowances' were
gradually reduced. Work on the aero-
drome continued under conditions which
became daily more brutal. A basher
gang operated. Its habit was to pounce
without warning or apparent reason on
some group of Australians, bash them or
force them to stand with outstretched
arms gazing fixedly into the blinding
tropic sun.
The pace of the work was increased
and its difficulty doubled by the grow-
ing weakness of the troops, consequence
of illness and reduction of the food
allowance. On eight ounces of rice per
day it was difficult enough for strong
men, unaccustomed to the kind of work
entailed, to carry on under the tropic
sun. But the ration was reduced to six
ounces a day, then to three ounces a
day, then —at the end of 1944 —cut
out altogether, leaving the camps to live
on their reserves.
By that time the Americans had
landed in the Philippines, and to the
other troubles of the Japanese and their
captives Allied bombing was added. No
attempt had been made by the Japanese
to identify p.-0.-w. camps for bombers.
The result was that the camp at the Eight-
Mile Peg caught the attacks of the Allies
as heavily as the rest. It was bombed
once and machine-gunned six times, and
30 p.-0.-w. were killed.
The aerodrome having been finished
—fruitlessly—in December, 1944, the
Japanese 37th Army command now de-
cided that invasion was approaching the
west coast, and thither they began to
shift what force they had. Part of their
plan was to send the 500 prisoners in best
physical condition to act as coolies, while
100 British were dispatched to Labuan—
they afterwards perished like the rest —
to build an airstrip there to cover
Japanese naval operations,
The March to Ranau
The scheme for the “coolie” prisoners’
dispatch was that they should be sent
off to walk the 163 miles from Sandakan
to Ranau in batches of 50, each batch
leaving one day behind the other.
The route to Ranau is through terrible
jungle country, ccynparable to that be-
tween Salamaua and Edie Creek in its
pristine 1927 state, when the goldfields
were in process of their first opening,
But the road to Ranau is five times as
long, the hills are higher, the creeks
deeper and noisier and the jungle thicker
and wetter and infested with every kind
of lethal wild life—elephant, rhinoceros,
animals of the cat tribe and cobras. At
stages along the route the Japanese had
huts for themselves, but the Australian
“coolie” trains were expected to sleep in
the wet, open track,
The first batch of 50 prisoners left
Sandakan on January 28, 1945. Though
it had been decided to send 500, only
455 could be found whom even the Japs
felt strong enough to make the march,
They went in nine parties, and they
proved to be not strong enough. Some
of them were without boots. Some had
been fitted out with Japanese rubber
“monkey” boots. But, as they had no
socks, these were worse than nothing.
Often when the men became bogged in
swamps they pulled their footgear off
with the suction of the mud.
Each man was loaded down with a
heavy burden—back packs and bags of
rice, 40 or 50 pounds. On their low
rice ration, men began to fall out
almost at once, unable to go on.
From the beginning it was obvious
that to fall out meant execution,
Stragglers and the incapable were mur-
dered without mercy,
It was a common experience for a
man to find in the morning that he could
not move. He would then distribute his
precious equipment to his comrades, sit
quietly down on a log and wait for the
inevitable. To passing files he would
give messages for old mates ahead:
“Tell Blue or Snow I’m finished”; or


Personal.
DAKlN.—Enquiries are sought of RUSSELL DAKIN,
born in Tasmania about 70 years ago, or his children
(if any). Any person able to supply any reliable
information please communicate with PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney,
■■ ■ ■:?;
m
h
m
m mi.
The SIXTIETH
Anniversary of the
WUNDERLICH
INDUSTRY
1887-1947
With the Commemoration of its Sixtieth
Anniversary and after 60 years of par-
ticipation in the Australian Building
Industry, Wunderlich Limited feels justly
proud of its achievement and of its
legion of friends in the ArchitecturcJ
profession and Building Trade through-
out Australasia,
m
Illustrated are typical Wunderlich factories,
16 of which are in operation throughout the
Commonwealth.
MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING MATERIALS IN
METAL. TERRA-COTTA AND ASBESTOS-CEMENT.
There
are no
tetter
tgres
Made in
Australia's
most modern
tyre plant
m
ME?
by skilled
Au s tralian
artisans
using the
finest raw
materials.
Ilia
9 9 &
i A PRODUCT Of
rut OLYMPIC TYOC
s BUBBtB CO. LTO.
fmm
Keep on
Buying Savings
Certificates and
Stampsl
he would give message fil" of‘limping
SS into the Juj*.
They might or might pot would
Sometimes the lonely, sick Digg
be merely knocked on the head and left
to lie by the roadside. ,
Eventually the tragic cavalcade or
what was left of it, reached Ranau a
mired village under the shadow of
Borneo’s sacred mountain Kanabalu,
which is more than 13,000 feet hig .
Only 320 completed the journey, includ-
ing 120 British. Few of them were fit
for work. They continued to die liKe
flies.
No hut accommodation had been pro-
vided to shelter them in that tropic
climate. They eventually constructed a
sort of shelter for themselves in which
their wretched remnant dwelt those
without dysentery in the shaky upper
story; those with dysentery on the
ground. The mortality was horrible
When it was decided to move the bulk
of them back along the road a few runes
to the point where their rearguard (halt
the total) had been left, only a fraction
of them remained, including eight who
were unfit to travel at all. These lads
could not stind upright. They were
made to crawl to the cemetery on their
stomachs like animals. At the cemetery
entrance they were picked up one by
one, put on a stretcher and carried
to a graveside, where they were mur-
dered. The same stretcher returned again
and again.
The Second March
Meanwhile hunger, dysentery, beriberi
and the dread tropical ulcer did their
work at Sandakan. By May, 1945, with
the Japanese hold on the area threatened
imminently by the Australian invasion,
only 824 survivors remained, and of
these 288 were unfit to be moved even
by Japanese standards —hospital cases
every one of them.
The remaining 536 it was decided to
march to Ranau in May, 1945. These
were, in great part, not walking cases by
even Japanese standards. Very many of
them could only walk by supporting
their ulcer-rotted bones with sticks. They
suffered from every ailment with which
torture, starvation and the tropics could
afflict them.
These living skeletons in their rags
were hurried over, the terrible bush track
in three parties which were supposed to
leapfrog each other every day, so that
there would be a fresh party in the lead
every 24 hours.
Along the route they found, to horrify
them, the remains of their comrades of
the earlier march —a skeleton here, a bit
of ragged tunic or clothing there.
Behind the straggling cavalcade
marched the Japanese cleaning-up party
under a wild beast called Sergeant Suji.
Those who went to the rear among the
prisoners could expect and got no mercy.
They were wiped out.
The survivors—lB3 —arrived in the
Ranau area on May 26, 1945, to find the
men of the January marches nearly all
dead. Six miserable wrecks; five Aus-
tralians and one British Tommy greeted
them. By the beginning of August the
189 survivors had been reduced to 33,
and these were presently, all executed.
At Sandakan the tragedy was also mov-
ing to its end. The 288 who had been
thought, even by the Japanese, unfit to
attempt the Ranau march had been
turned out into the gardens and surround-
ing jungle to forage for themselves. By
July 8 there were 62 of these left. Most
of them were made to crawl to their
gravesides and were shot to death.
When only one remained a Japanese
officer took him out and cut off his head.
Out of 2750 men, apart from the
officers who were sent to Kuching and
the men tried with Captain Matthews
after torture and sent to Outram-road
Jail in Singapore, only six survived. Two
natives, seeing something naked and wild
in the jungle, caught up with it. It was
Owen Campbell, who had broken away
with companions on the march to Ranau
during an air-raid alarm. One of his
mates had destroyed himself and two
had been shot by a Japanese when they
hailed a prau. The rest of the six got
away in two parties from Ranau, includ-
ing Norton Short, who was picked up
weighing only a little over four stone.
As many died as escaped. All who were
saved owed their lives to the natives, who
behaved with a splendid and self-sacri-
ficing loyalty, risking their lives for the
whites who, every sullen Communist
leader will avow, are everywhere in
Malaysia hated and regarded as oppres-
sors, the enemies of “Indonesian free-
dom.”
The Japanese who were mainly respon-
sible have nearly all met their fate. Some
have been hanged, some shot, some sen-
tenced to terms of imprisonment. Some
died by the hands of their own people.
Some are still under investigation.
The one thing now needed to round
off a tale to which strong men can
scarcely listen without tears is that a
proper appreciation should be shown of
those who risked their lives to save and
succor our men. The Government’s con-
ception of what is due to them is com-
pletely inadequate. The expenditures of
some of those who organised the financ-
ing, feeding and provision of medicines
and comforts for the men of Sandakan
have not even been recouped.
Meanwhile, the Sandakan prison
camp has been almost blotted out by
tropical growth. The frames of the huts
have rotted and fallen. Grass and weed,
a few forlorn trees planted by Diggers
rising above, grow shoulder-high. In
places the vegetation forms a roll like a
rising wave. There the barbed-wire lies.
Explorers find a few sad relics—Digger
hats, old boots. They must be careful
as they search for them, since the under-
growth is infested with cobras. Whose
reincarnations these poisonous things are
it is easy to guess.
Terror in Indonesia.
Going into Padang, Sumatra, the Dutch
came across the bodies of seven Euro-
peans, murdered by “our Indernesian
comrades,” About the same time the
bodies of 25 murdered Chinese, most of
them mutilated, were found “not far
from Malang, east Java.” And the
Federation of Chinese Associations in
Java came out with a precise and detailed
account of Indonesian outrages “more
atrocious than the Japanese,” such as
1831 Chinese men, women and children
murdered in one place, Tangerang, in
June and July, ending with an appeal to
U.N.O. for protection and exaction of
reparations.
In effect, “our Indernesian comrades”
badly needed a caning from the Dutch,
and they got it. The so-called
“republican Government,” which was
nothing but a creature of the pro-
Japanese Indonesian “army,” was, with
Oriental ferocity added, playing the
same game in Java and Sumatra that
the Russians are playing in Europe —try-
ing to weary out Western interests in any
settlement by delaying, resisting or vio-
lating agreements.
These Jokjakarta gangsters goaded the
Dutch into action —the Dutch being then
confined within two or three small peri-
meters on the north coast —by denying
foodstuffs to the populations within those
perimeters and by looting Dutch and
other Western nationals’ property in the
plantations, especially rice mills and oil
fields. Mr. Bevia said recently in Lon-
don that if British-owned plantations in
Java could get to exporting again
Britain’s fat problem would disappear
within a twelvemonth. The producing
areas developed by the Anglo-Dutch cor-
poration and by other European and
American companies lie within the areas
in western and eastern Java and
southern Sumatra. These the Dutch
forces reoccupied in operations which it
is ridiculous to call war and which lasted
for about a week.
It did not require U.N.O. or any
member-State aspiring to intervene, in the
process of “giving the world leadership,”
to suggest a limitation to Dutch action.
The Secretary for Overseas Territories at
the Hague repeatedly stated that military
measures would be limited “in means,
territory and duration,” and that there-
after negotiations would follow with the
“republic” and with other component
members of the future Indies federation
in terms of the Cheribon agreement.
It is the Dutch success in regaining
valuable European property which has
galled the “Indernesian” comrades and
the puppets of Moscow in Australia and
other countries. Whether or not “Aus-
tralians” were connected with it, there is
no doubt “our Indernesian comrades” had
a scheme to ship abroad to blackmarkets
European - owned goods stored on
Javanese plantations. When the scheme
failed because the Dutch Navy blockaded
Indonesian-held ports Soekarno’s heroes
began destroying plantations and mills.
The London “Times’s” Batavia corres-
pondent reported in the last week of
July that in Tegal the electric power
station and half the port installations
were found smashed; that in west
Java fewer than half the rice mills re-
mained between Batavia and Soebang—
the rice destroyed would have fed the
starving native population—and that great
damage was done on the big P. and T,
plantations around Soebang (they em-
ployed over 60,000 Sundanfese). The
rubber factory there was completely de-
stroyed and also about 40 per cent, of
the European staff houses in the model
township.


Hxvbt
/////✓
STILL KEEPS GOING WHEN
NAVE STOPPEP
EXIDE IS THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRA
IA PTY.. LTD.. 44 BRIDGE ST.. SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
In Canberra as leader of the U.K.
delegation to the South Pacific Air
Transport Council, Lord Nathan,
Minister for Civil Aviation in the Attlee
Government, had a notable career as a
solicitor before he turned from local
government to national politics in 1929.
He represented N.E. Bethnal Green for
five years as a Liberal, joined the Labor
party in 1935 and held Wandsworth for
Labor until he was raised to the peerage
in 1940. One of the original officers of
the Territorial Forces—he had been a
volunteer officer before the Terriers were
formed—he fought with the London
Regiment on Gallipoli and in France,
surviving a serious head wound. In
Hitler’s war he was chairman of the
National Defence Public Interest Com-
mittee. When Labor took office in 1945
he became Under-Secretary for War and
vice-president of the Army Council.
Civil Aviation followed.
Threatening G. B. Shaw’s record,
Isaac Isaacs celebrated his 92nd birthday
last week in Melbourne. The first Aus-
tralian-born Governor-General is still as
mentally vigorous as when he went as a
boy to the State school at Yackandandah
or when later in life he set out to learn
Russian and Chinese or tackled the violin
or some other branch of study, or took
time off from contemplation of the local
political situation to analyse the causes
of the Palestine problem, which he thinks
can be solved only by Jew and Arab
settling down together. It is 69 years
since he graduated from the University
of Melbourne and nearly 90 since his
father migrated from Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne, to the Beechworth goldfields
to start a tailoring business. He was
born in the year Melbourne attained its
majority.
In Paris as Australian representative at
the annual U.N.E.S.C.O. seminar—an
ugly word which its sponsors prefer to
convention —Stephen Wallace is a Wes-
tralian who lectures in social science at
the Teachers’ College, Claremont. He’s
a B.A. of the University of W.A., and has
five years’ war service in the Middle East,
New Guinea and Borneo to his credit.
In June, 1847, Letters Patent from
Queen Victoria raised the town of Ade-
laide to the dignity of a city and at the
same time declared South and West Aus-
tralia to be “a Bishop’s See and Diocese
called the Bishopric of Adelaide.” In
naming Augustus Short first occupant of
the See the documents stated “we do or-
dain, make and constitute him to be a
perpetual Corporation.” It was possibly
a realisation of the grave implications of
being a perpetual corporation that caused
the raising of the eyebrows of Bishop
Robin, fifth of the line, when Coventry
went along to sketch him round about
GAITERS.
the hundredth birthday of his See. Bryan
Percival Robin is one of several Aus-
tralian bishops who graduated from the
ranks of the Queensland Bush Brother-
hood, Ordained in England, he put in
seven years with the Brotherhood before
becoming sub-Dean of Townsville in
1922. Four years later he moved south
to take on the job of Warden of St.
John’s College, Brisbane, and in 1930 he
returned to England as rector of Wood-
church, a living his father had held for
many years. He was elevated to the
Adelaide diocese seven yesrs ago.
When Captain S, W. S. Dickson,
master of the Stratheden, reconditioned
after her war service at a cost which
nearly equalled her building, brought the
big liner into Australian ports on her first
post-war trip his mind probably went
back to his first Australian landfall,
made in 1911 in a much less spectacular
manned —as an apprentice on a four-
masted barque. Since then he has
dropped in many times in many vessels,
but all flying the P. and O. house flag,
and he was on the Stratheden when she
first took to the water. Three rows of
ribbons attest his war service when his
command was a troopship and carried
146,000 troops 500,000 miles through
dangerous waters. A plaque presented
by Australian and M.L. admirers testifies
to the skipper’s skill in bringing his ship
through the submarine cordon in the
early days of the late war.
It was said at 24-year-old Evelyn
Baxter’s second show at Sedon Galleries,
Melbourne, that her first exhibition held
last year made an Australian record, the
show being sold out, after over £lOOO
worth of still-life had changed hands the
first day. The talented young woman’s
current show is not only an Australian
record but probably a world one; it is
doubtful if any artist ever sold £l5OO
worth of pictures while still an apprentice.
Miss' Baxter deserves it. Being an inva-
lid who can’t paint landscape, she de-
cided three years ago to paint still-life.
She took a few lessons from Septimus
Power, but she has always sketched, and
her work doesn’t show much of the in-
fluence of her master. Her incessant in-
dustry is an example to every artist, and
the amount of canvas she has covered is
astounding.
“F.S.” recalls some frozen history:
Captain Morton Henry Moyes, 0.8. E., B.Sc.,
F.R.G.S., of Melbourne, can tell the story of
the relics reported to have been found by an
American naval expedition on Ross Island and
handed over to the British Admiralty. He was
navigating officer in charge of landing parties
of the relief expedition provided by Australia
in 1917 to rescue the 10 men of the subsidiary
party of Shackleton’s expedition who were
marooned on the island when the Aurora
broke her moorings and smashed her rudder
in a blizzard. With the rest of the crew the
Aurora drifted in the icy seas for 10 months
before reaching M.L., where she was refitted
and provided with a party under the com-
mand of that great seaman Captain J. K.
Davis, present Director of Navigation.
Then suddenly Shackleton turned up in M.L.
and joined the party. His ship, the Endurance,
had herself been hit by a blizzard, been crushed
in icepacks and had drifted for more than a
year to end up on Elephant Island. From
there with five men he made an epic journey
of 700 miles in an open boat to South Georgia,
and succeeded at the fourth attempt in thread-
ing the ice-floes in the Chilean trailer Yelcho
to rescue his marooned crew. That done, he
made for M.L. In January, 1917, the second
relief party reached Ross Island to rescue the
10 men who had been there over two years.
Moyes was sent ashore with instructions to
lie down on the ice once for every man found
alive. He lay down seven times —three men,
including the leader, Mackintosh, had perished.
The American expedition has revived a story
of adventure which for a brief space made the
whole world forget it was engaged in Armaged-
don. Incidentally, it was Moyes’s party, not
Shackleton, which left the relics and it was
Australians who sealed up the cabins which
the Americans found 30 years later.
Moyes was born at Adelaide in 1887, and
educated at St. Peter’s College, where he was
science master before he joined the Navy. He
was Director of Education and Vocational
Training for the R.A.N. during the late war,
is a one-time champion athlete, once fought a
Federal election and has been on three Antarctic
expeditions—about enough for one man. He
is now Chief Rehabilitation Officer in the De-
partment of Social Services in Melbourne.
“Repatriate”: Val recent
promotion from group-captain to air-
commodore will come as welcome news
to those who knew him at Tadji (N.G.) a
couple of years ago. As a “Grouper”
at R.A.A.F. H.Q., he decided he would
be able to do a much better job there if
he saw active service with the troops.
He posted himself to 100 Squadron at
Tadji, for operational flying duties.
Thirty minutes after he joined the squad--
ron an urgent call came for medical^
supplies to be dropped down the line.
It was just about dark, weather was
typical of N.G. and there was about an
even chance of the aircraft not reaching
its objective but “pranging” in the moun-
tains. Hancock went as a passenger to
get the lay of the land. From that day
on he flew on operational duties —strikes
by day and A.S.V. patrols- by night.
There were no frills about Hancock. He
had posted himself to a squadron where
the C. 0., John Kessey, was a wing-
commander. For a time he flew under
the command of a flight-lieutenant
flight commander rather than deprive
him of his acting rank. He consistently
refused preferential treatment to which
his rank entitled him and lived in a tent
with the rest of his crew. He served his
full operational tour and returned to
H.Q. much wiser for his experiences.
“Ulysses” (London): Australia has
been in the limelight at the Albert Hall,
where Malcolm Sargent conducted the
London Symphony Orchestra in a pro-
gramme featuring Eileen Joyce, together
with John Antill, whose ballet suite,
“Corroboree,” was given a further airing
and now threatens to become a popular
work at the Prom, concerts. Antill’s un-
usual scoring for percussion instruments,
including Chinese temple blocks, a
thunder-sheet and a bull-roarer, caught
the attention of an enormous audience,
which listened in wonder to the insistent
rhythms, contrasting* with a tranquil
“Dance to the Evening Star” and the
sound of thunder in the “Rain Dance.”
After the dramatic climax of the “Clos-
ing Ceremony” the performance was
awarded a prolonged burst of applause,
interspersed with shouts for more, a
gratifying spectacle to all Australians
present —and there were plenty.
Son of an Aberdeen master mariner,
Douglas Stuart Forbes, general manager
of Queensland National Bank and chair-
man of the Associated Banks in Queens-
OVERDRAFTS.
land since 1937, was born in Brisbane 57
years ago. He joined the Royal Bank of
Queensland in 1906 and transferred to
Q.N. in 1914. By the time Sydney office
welcomed him as manager 14 years later
he had managed branches over the length
and breadth of his home State, his bari-
tone voice had been heard in church
and concert halls from Bundaberg to
way out west, and he had a golf handi-
cap that hovered a few points above and
fluctuated with the overdraft rate. From
Sydney manager he jumped to chief in-
spector, thence to g.m. Lately he’s been
busy with arrangements for the merging
of Q.N. with the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia.
Resignation of George Carson-Cooling
after seven years’ headmastership of Bris-
bane Grammar has removed a notable
figure from Queensland pedagogic world.
Still only 50, he explains that he had
always intended to do the deed at that
age before he got too old to enjoy life.
Judging by present appearance and men-
tality he might well have deferred action
for another 20 years at least. He’s an Old
Digger, and before succeeding to the
headmastership was English master and
second-in-command.
The Prior impression of a Guarnerius
violin grafted on to an A.B.C. wireless
mast encloses the features of Isaac Stern,
who owns the former and is broadcasting
its stored-up magic to Australia per
STRINGS.
medium of the latter. Stern is Russian-
born, but has lived in America since he
was 12 months old ; he is now 26. His
Australian tour is taking him to all the
capitals, but it should be easy going com-
pared with the one that took him to 75
cities in U.S.A. and Canada, topping up
with an appearance as soloist with the
New York Philharmonic before an audi-
ence of 15,000. During the war he played
to Doughboys in Iceland, Hawaii and
Guadalcanal.
Into the silence: — .
At 76, in Melbourne, Charles Dickson
Gregory, president of the Shiplovers’ Society,
member of the Historical Society of Victoria,
and of the Model Ships Society. A jewel
expert by profession, he was reputed to know
more about Australian ships than anybody in
the world. He wrote Australian Steamships
Fast and Present, The Romance of the Edina
and many other books. ,
In Sydney, at 63, Robert Frederick Harvey,
headmaster of North Sydney Boys’ High since
1932, and a teacher for over 40 years. As a
young man he toured Europe on a Carnegie
grant and for a time taught English in France.
In Ayr (N.Q.), at 84, George Rennie, Scottish-
born pioneer of the Burdekin district, and a
notable figure in Presbyterian and Caledonian
activities. Amongst his experiences of early
days was that of having carried and stacked
sugar on the Townsville wharf for 59 consecu-
tive hours.
In Adelaide, f at 80, Harrison Weir, former
Government Printer in S.A., and one-time editor
of the “Baptist Record.” During 53 years’
service in the Government Printing Office he
worked his way through all departments from
office boy to chief.
In Brisbane, at 56, E. C. Matthews, inventor
and patentee of the widely-used thermostatic
street fire alarm which bears his name and
which has, for many years, received the official
approval of fire-insurance offices throughout
Australia.
At Bassendean (W.A.) Brigadier-General
Alfred Joseph Bessell-Browne, who commanded
Fifth Div. Artillery in World War I. He laid
his first gun in 1896, went to the Boer War
as a lance-corporal and came back a captain.
In the recent war he was in command of the
V.D.C. in W.A.
In Melbourne, at 52, Percy Lawrence Brett,
Comptroller of Stores to Victoria’s State Elec-
tricity Commission. Before he went to the
1914-18 war he was a contributor of topical
sketches and verse to The Bulletin and Lone
Hand. Later, as Richard Lawrence, he had
lyrical verse published in The Bulletin and
the Woman’s Mirror. His library contained
a good cross-section of Australiana.
At Wellington (M.L.), Charles Allan Marris,
journalist and poet, sometime associate editor
of the defunct Christchurch “Sun,” editor of
“Art” since its establishment in 1927 and a
former president of the P.E.N. Club. His verse
is included in three anthologies. Born in
Melbourne, he was sportsmaster at Ballarat
College and Ipswich Grammar before crossing
the Tasman,


Missing Friend.
O’BRIEN, Thomas John. —Anyone knowing the where-
abouts of THOMAS JOHN O'BRIEN, last heard of
at Lithgow, N.S.W., kindly communicate with
MESSRS. METCALFE & CO., Solicitors, M.U.1.0.0.F,
Building, 185 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
This man-ruled country of ours, where
vou can count on the fingers of your hands
the number of women who have any say
in public affairs, welcomed last week a
woman who is chairman of the London
County Council. She is Lady Nathan (an
M A of Girton), who is in Australia with
her husband. Lord Nathan, Britain’s
Minister for Civil Aviation, and soldier
son, the Hon. Roger Nathan. Lady
Nathan, who was elected to the chair-
manship of the L.C.C. in March last, had
already served 15 years as a councillor.
She is one of the many women of Eng-
land who are active in the, government
—local and otherwise—of their country.
Lady Nathan is tall and attractive and
wears her clothes with such an air that
it seems almost incredible that she still
recalls as a red-letter day the buying of
a new frock a month or two back, when,
as host of the Council’s annual reception,
she welcomed the King and Queen and
the two Princesses. Lord and Lady
Nathan’s home is in Surrey and
they have quite a spacious flat in London.
But the problem of domestic help is just
as acute for them as it is for us in Aus-
tralia.
Sydney’s Lord Mayor Bartley and Mrs.
Bartley held a noonday civic reception
for the visitors and their good-looking
son. State Premier McGirr came to this
party after he had seen his niece, Dr.
Gwen McGirr, off by the Stratheden.
Also present were U.K. High Commis-
sioner Williams, his wife and daughter
Ivy. Importants of every flying enter-
prise in Sydney were there, among them
Hudson Fysh and Keith Smith of
Qantas, C. A. Butler of Airways, and
the P. H. Bonds of A.N.A. One who
listened with absorbed interest to Lady
Nathan was Vice-Chairman of Sydney’s
Town Planning Committee, H. G. Carter.
Lord Nathan’s Killara kinsfolk, the Ernest
Salengers, were there, Mrs. Salenger smart
in a London tan ensemble, daughter
Margaret in a jade-blue frock and a cur-
vette of looped black ribbons. So were
the Keith Morrises —were lyrical about
their new farm out Gosford way. In-
teresting from Lord Nathan’s point of
view was the roll-up of suburban mayors.
Slim and tall, Mr. Poland, private secre-
tary to Lord Nathan, was among the
noted. He owns that his special recrea-
tion is gliding.
Like Sir Isaac Isaacs, Lord Nathan is
an Associate Knight of the Order of
St. John of Jerusalem. But in spite of
all the distinctions, both martial and civil,
which he has won, he has his human
vanities. He is quite looking forward to
his visit to the tropics, where he will be
able to wear his white drill coats, which
he is getting made in Sydney. These were
unobtainable in London.
After wiping the tear from the eye
over the departure of Theseus, Glory,
Cascade and Contest, Sydney women
drowned their sorrow in an orgy of
summer shopping. In the warmth of the
last few days, like bees in a field of
clover they have buzzed and circled
around the spring displays in the depart-
ment stores, which are the most lavish
since pre-war. This year the young girl
will walk by day in brightly-striped seer-
sucker and by night in the crisp freshness
of organdy. If you manage to dodge
the tax collector, and know how to keep
on doing it, you wijl be able to buy your-
self some lengths of pure silk, otherwise
gaily-patterned artificial rayons and arti-
ficial silks. This year Sydney women can
be sensible over their hats; they can
wear them wide of brim and still be very
smart.
Warm reception was given pianist
Valda Aveling at her Conservatorium
concert on Saturday night. Valda left
Australia a talented young girl to study ;
she has returned a pianist of the first
order. She has no mannerisms and has
a classic approach to her work, ex-
tremely pleasing in one so young. Her
frock of velvet was dahlia in shade,
almost statuesque in design and, unusual
for a woman pianist, the sleeves were
wrist length and slimly fitting. A
wealth of flowers and applause greeted
this artist. Teacher Frank Hutchins, who
was an appreciative listener, must have
been gratified by her first encore —one
of his own compositions. In the audi-
ence were the Frederick Jordan lady and
her two sisters, Mrs. Hope Gibson, who
brought a party of eight and Mrs. Claude
Plowman, who was surrounded by
friends. Valda will play at the Killara
Music Club recital in September. In
October she leaves again for England.
* The Miklos Gafni concerts created a
record in Con. audiences. The overflow
had to be given rows of seats on the
platform. Uproarious applause continues
to greet the tenor, whose final matinee
is at the Town Hall op August 23.
Wfien a helping hand is called for, there
is no one quicker to respond than the
Returned Warrior. This year the R.S.L.
Ball committee has decided to give all
the money coming from this year’s
Victory Ball to the “Food for Britain”
Fund. The ball will be the culmination
of a £lO,OOO appeal launched by the
Returned Servicemen’s League, to which
all sub-branches are responding gener-
ously. A stirring interlude to the ball
will be the presentation to State Gov-
ernor, Lieut.-General John Northcott, of
the total amounts received. His Excel-
lency will accept the cheque on behalf
of the people of Britain. The ball will
be held on August 21, and 15 debs, are
busy practising their curtseys for their
presentation to the State Governor and
his lady. Daughters Marjorie and Eliza-
beth Northcott will accompany their
vice-regal parents.
Pictured here is June Adams, younger
daughter of the late Arthur H. Adams,
one of Australia’s best-known writers.
Arthur, who was novelist, playwright and
poet, was on the staff of The Bulletin
for many years. One of the things blown
away on the wings of disaster in the First
World War was his comedy “Mrs. Pretty
and the Premier,” which was bombed out
of its London West End production—
theatre and all. Among his novels,
Galahad Jones still remains one of the
best novels with a Sydney background
ever written by an Australian. June, who
over the war years was with the K.P.M.,
left Sydney last week in the Stratheden,
and then goes on from Perth by freighter
Charon for Singapore. On arrival
she will take up her secretarial duties in
the Qantas Singapore office. June, who
has had already a little success in writing,
hopes one day to follow where her father
led, and produce a really good novel of
modern life.
Attractive and popular English woman
Lady Wavertree, well-known in Aus-
tralia and M.L., was married last Satur-
day to the Hon. F. M. B. Fisher, of N.Z.,
at St. Stephen’s, Macquarie-street, the
Rev. Alan Tory officiating. Lady Waver-
tree, C.8.E., is a Dame of St. John, and
members of this Order paid her the com-
pliment of forming a guard-of-honor out-
side the church. Lady Wavertree, who is
the widow of Baron Wavertree, numbers
among her forbears Richard Brinsley
Sheridan. In the First World War her
home in Regent’s Park was converted
into a hospital, of which she was matron.
The bridegroom was at one time Maori-
land’s Minister for Customs and Marine
and a first-rate tennis-player.
Tomorrow’s big moment for balleto-
manes will be the lunch-time opening of
the Ballet and Theatre Club at Cameo
Chambers, 305 a Pitt-street (next door to
Esquire Theatre).
News of Eire comes from Mrs.
Clement Chapman, who, with her hus-
band, Dr. Clement Chapman, has been
in Dublin for the Medical Conference
held at the Rotunda:
It was interesting to hear the various
languages—French, Danish, Hindu, Egyp-
tian and also American accents. One
American woman doctor turned to inspect
Clem’s little delegate label on the coat.
“Oh, from Sydney, sir,” said she. “I
would have guessed by your accent, sir,
you would have come from South
Carolina.”
To the President of Ireland’s reception
we drove through Phoenix Park with its
magnificent trees and emerald lawns to the
President’s house, which was once the
Vice-regal Lodge, where we were received
by the President and Mrs. O’Kelly —
Mrs. O’Kelly is 6ft. tall [or so it
seemed to Mrs. Chapman]. The
spacious old Georgian home blazed
with crystal chandeliers. From the recep-
tion rooms we walked into the Gardens
down the terraced steps. For the first time
I saw Irish pipers, the saffron yellow of
their shawls and kilts in striking contrast
to the green. (I learn that the saffron
yellow comes from an old vegetable dye).
Flowers and brilliant frocks of the women
and the men’s decorations were all part
of the glitter. But Ireland turned on an
afternoon of soft mist and rain for Master
of the Rotunda’s garden party. The women
wore suits and furs. Fortunately I had
brought my umbrella.
From Melbourne
Beyond doubt one of the most success-
ful dances of the season was that held by
the Australian Air Force Women’s Asso-
ciation at the Storklub. Proceeds will
go to the Association’s Memorial
Scholarship Fund for children of de-
ceased R.A.A.F. men. Mrs. George
Jones, wife of the Chief of the Air Staff
(he is at present in England), wore a
white crepe gown trimmed with gold
sequins. The Deputy Chief, Air-Com-
modore F. R. W. Scherger, was at the
official table with his wife, whose gown
of hyacinth-blue crepe was contrasted
with long pale-mauve suede gloves. With
Air Vice-Marshal F. Bladin was Mrs.
Bladin (she is president of the
A.A.F.W.A.), attractive in a gown of
silver lame. Among the official guests
were Air Vice-Marshal J. Hewitt and
Mrs. Hewitt and Air Vice-Marshal E, C,
Wackett and Mrs. Wackett.
Mrs. A. L. Walters, president of the
ball committee,, received the official
guests. Her lovely gown of pale-prim-
rose silk jersey featured a swathed bodice
finished on one shoulder with a cascad-
ing lei of primroses and red flowers'. The
skirt was draped into the waistline. Jean
©arragh wore black crepe, the bodice
studded with diamente and the short puff
sleeves caught with diamond clips at the
shoulders. Long black silk mittens added
to the ensemble. Betty Hanlon’s black
French silk gown was) patterned with
white feathery sprays. Mrs. Peter An-
drews was in pastel-blue slipper satin.
Mrs. Ken Guest wore a Patou model
gown of black crepe. Margot Cornaga’s
crepes were hibiscus red. With Dr. Bill
McDermott was his wife, who chose a
picture frock of black velvet; they were
accompanied by Mr. Alwyn Rowlands'
and his wife. Mrs. Ralph Michaelis’s
Grecian gown of white crepe was lavishly
gold-trimmed.
Over 1000 dancers went to the 21st
Anniversary Ball given by students of
the Emily McPherson College. The
students themselves, as well as doing all
the ingenious decorations, did all the
catering, which included hot pattie
sandwiches, savories and cakes. Two
“blocks of happiness” cubes of the
seven-feet-high birthday cake, also made
by the students, were presented to Lady
Dugan, who received 48 debutantes
carrying posies of pink carnations and
blue forget-me-nots. Lady Dugan, who
was accompanied by Lord and Lady
Dunwich, Mrs. J. O. Haselden and Pene-
lope Nettlefold, was received by Mr. and
Mrs. W. E. McPherson, president of the
college council. Mrs. McPherson’s gown
was of royal-blue lace and taffetas with
cyclamen flowers on the shoulders. Miss
Margaret Stuart, principal of the col-
lege, chose a black sequinned cloque
gown. Esma Howey presented Lady
Dugan with a bouquet, made by the col-
lege students. Other official guests in-
cluded Sir Norman and Lady Brookes,
A. W. Keown and Mrs. Keown and Mr.
and Mrs. H. S. Wootton.
Pauline Cartmell (a few months ago
she became Mrs. K. Charleson) is well
known for her work at the Little Theatre.
At present she is playing the title role in
Peter Randall’s production of “The
Young Mrs. Barrington.” Pauline was
teaching at Little St. Margaret’s until her
marriage. She is now installed in her
flat at Glen Iris.
The Victoria League’s Overseas Brides
Bureau, with Mrs. R. A. Staughton as
president, has given an opportunity for
lonely young women to meet others from
their own homeland. Recently a party
was given by Mrs. Staughton and her
committee to say goodbye to Mrs.
G. I. D. Hutcheson, who has been the
honorary secretary of the bureau since
its inception, A “navy wife,” Mrs.
Hutcheson is leaving to make her home in
Sydney. Mrs. Staughton’s moss-green
crepe frock was worn with a fur cape
and small flowered hat. Mrs. Hutcheson
chose a black suit with small black hat
trimmed with scarlet ribbon. The party
also gave members of the bureau an op-
portunity to meet the new hon. secretary,
Mrs. Alan Bell. Mrs. S. H. Voce pre-
sented Mrs. Hutcheson with a compact
appropriately decorated with sea motifs.
Guests-of-honor at a cocktail dinner
party given at the Australia by Mr. and
Mrs. Geoff Kiddle, of Wagga (N.S.W.),
were Mr. and Mrs. John Wilbur Ham.
Mrs. Wilbur Ham was before her
marriage last May Elizabeth, daughter
of the Ken Austins, of Boggabri. Mrs.
Kiddle wore a short black crepe dinner
frock, which had a flesh-pink lace yoke
veiled in black chantilly lace and sequins.
Her small black hat was flower-trimmed.
The guest-of-honor’s black frock was re-
lieved by a soft cream lace cravat. Among
the guests were the Rev. Harry Nunn, who
had tied the nuptial knots, and the
hostess’s father, John Brown. Mrs. Max
Ham was in black, her small black hat
sporting blue facings and pink roses.
Brian and Eleanor Wilbur Ham, brother
and sister of John, recent bridegroom,
were there, Eleanor wearing a dove-grey
silk frock patterned with cyclamen birds
and cut to show a Chinese influence. Mrs.
lan Cameron’s frock was of blue angora.
Gwen Ingleton chose a white lace dinner
blouse and black skirt. Other guests in-
cluded Dr. and Mrs. Ainslie Meares and
Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay Meares, of Oak
Hill, Wagga.
The Littlejohn Memorial Chapek
Scotch College, was the venue for the
marriage of Dr. Lesley Leask, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. U. Leask,
of Sydney, and Dr. John K. Fullagar,
eldest son of Mr. Justice Fullagar, of
Kew. The bride, who was given away
by her father, chose a semi-classical gown
of white French crepe, with a full skirt.
The short-sleeved bodice was finished
with a square neckline and the long tulle
veil, which was lent by Mrs. James Shaw,
was caught to the head with sprays of
white flowers matching the ones fashion-
ing the bouquet. Judith Leask attended
her sister as bridesmaid. Her bouffant
frock of white-spotted marquisette was
short-sleeved, and the mid-Victorian posy
of flowers she carried was matched by
the curvette of pastel-toned flowers worn
on her head. Richard Fullagar was best-
man. Rev. Alec Fraser officiated. The
reception was held at Grosvenor, Toorak.
At the second of the steeplechase
meetings at Caulfield the tweed suit and
the colorful accessory predominated, but
a few racegoers anticipated the close-at-
hand spring. Mrs. Ronald Nott wore an
apple-grefen dressmaker suit, her small
beige hat being trimmed with wheat ears
and tiny spikes of green flowers. Mrs.
Norman Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C.
chairman, wore a tunic suit of slate-blue
cloth ; the tunic, of three-quarter-length,
was gathered in at the waist-
line. Her small cyclamen hat carried
soft veiling. Penelope Nettlefold wore
a brown beaver coat with her small
brown hat,
Peggy Mollard’s soft-green tweed suit
and wide, upturned green felt hat
trimmed with satin bows were notable.
Mrs. Maurice Nicholas sported an un-
usual black hat, trimmed with a half-
wreath of white flowers and with wide
primrose-yellow ribbon streamers fall-
ing to the shoulder at one side. With it
went a black tailored coat. Mrs. Tom
Gill wore a hip-length black Persian
lamb coat over her black frock ; her
light-brown hat was trimmed with blue
and green flowers. Mrs. Alan Bernaldo’s
upturned brown hat was massed with
pastel pink and blue flowers.
A party given by Mrs, Norman Lynch
to welcome her husband home from
America and to celebrate their 23rd
wedding anniversary brought together
many of their friends, Peter and Paul
Lynch also invited many of their friends,
and so the party became as well almost
a pre-wedding one for Peter and pretty
Kath Christie, who will marry at St.
Peter’s, Toorak, on October 1. Kath,
who is the younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. Christie, of Kew, wore a
pastel-pink taffeta strapless gown, the
full skirt shirred from the waist almost
to the knees. Pat Green, who will be
her bridesmaid, was in a rust-red taffeta
gown, ballerina styled. Maureen Wilton
wore a tight-fitting black velvet jacket
over a silver lame skirt; Judith
Southby’s crepe gown was apple-green.
Pat Clayton’s full skirt of navy faille
was teamed with an off-the-shoulder
white crepe blouse gaily embroidered
with her girl friends’ telephone numbers.
Wendy Dempsey was simply tailored in
a_gown of brilliant red crepe. Mrs. L. A.
Coleman wore a dusty-pink crepe dinner
gown. Mrs. H. Silk threw a white fox
cape over her blue and silver lame gown.


If you were suddenly empowered by a
deceased friend’s will to manage his estate,
what would you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend
do if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems arc
avoided by the appointment of The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Ltd. as
Executor or Co-Executor. The Company
has had over 68 years’ experience of estate
administration and offers undoubted security
for the performance of its duties
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Column, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M. 8., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
, Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;’
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French,
Incorporated In Victoria In 1878.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors'. THOMAS A, MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson,
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries,* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 247,435 6.6p.c.= 133,333 25,000 2,353,337
1938.. 262,384 7.1 „ ~141,667 30,000 2,359,360
1939.. 262,910 7.1 „„ 141,667 30,000 2,365,909
1940.. 264,157 7.1 „ ~141,667 35,000 2,368,705
1941.. 258,110 7.1 „ ~141,667 85,000 2,365,454
1942. . 241,813 6.6 „„ 133,333 25,000 2,364,240
1943.. 241,553 6.6 „„ 133,333 25,000 2,362,766
1944.. 247,025 6.6 „ ~133,333 25,000 2,366,764
1945.. 252,423 7.1 „ ~141,667 25,000 2,367,826
1946.. 262,185 7.5 „ ~ 150,000 25,000 2,370,317
1947. . 283,173 8 „ „ 160,000 35,000 2,873,796
* Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
Under the changed conditions of to-
day bank scrip can be regarded as a sound
investment, offering a fairly steady re-
turn but with limited prospects of further
improvement in either income or capital
value. First war and then the “new”
economics of “full” employment and
social security, with talk about a high
and “rising” standard of living, have
shackled banking practice and distorted
the banking structure. War-time financial
methods' developed techniques which
made for economy in the use of bank
advances. Government spending on de-
fence account was associated with in-
dustrial expansion and the financing of
transactions for which in normal times
bank loans would have been used. Thus
came about the anomaly of lively in-
dustrial activity associated with a reduc-
tion in advances and growing liquidity.
And, as a National Security measure,
bank earnings were tethered to the 1939
buoy.
A couple of years ago the trading
banks were brought within a wide range
of legislative restrictions and controls.
These are designed to regulate the nature
and purpose of the banks’ advances', the
rates of interest they can charge for loans
and pay on deposits, the volume of their
investment in Government and other
securities and the proportion of their
deposits “frozen” op special account
with the Commonwealth Bank—the
official agency for policing the Govern-
ment’s new banking legislation. Cer-
tainly the rate of profit that can be
earned by the trading banks is not speci-
fically limited by legislation, but Govern-
ment regulation of investment policy and
interest rates means control of earning
power. The Government aims at main-
taining cheap money and regulation of
spending, especially on non-essential
goods. To this end advances for some
classes of t.-p. business have already
been restricted, though the Common-
wealth Bank is going full-steam ahead in
assisting t.-p. purchase of agricultural
equipment and transport for business
purposes.
The Federal Treasurer’s decision to
bring section 48 of the Banking 'Act—it
prohibits the trading banks from con-
ducting banking business for a State or
local governing authority—into opera-
tion on August 1 was political and
socialistic, not economic or financial, in
its purpose. Meanwhile, Melbourne City
Council and others had challenged the
validity of section 48 before the High
Court, which reserved its judgment. But
that didn’t deter the stubborn Mr.
Chifley, who issued an order directing
transfer of accounts in question to the
Commonwealth Bank as from August 1.
The Melbourne Council promptly applied
for an injunction, which the Court
immediately granted until judgment was
delivered. Mr. Barwick, K.C., for the
council, described omission of the
council’s name from the list of munici-
palities gazetted by the Treasurer as “*
manoeuvre to outsmart the Court and the
community.”
Last term there was! a heartening
growth of £8,027,587 in the C.B.A.’s ad-
vances, and the trend can be expected
to continue. The ratio of advances to
deposits at end June was only 41.3 p.c.
as against 81.6 p.c. in 1939:
1941. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital ~ £4,117,350 £4,117,350 £4,117,350
Notes.. .. 6,184 6,174 5,103
Bills, etc. .. 1,606,203 ’
Free deposits. . 17,861,800 77,937,359 82,857,664
Fixed deposits 17,857,925
Liquid assets.. 15,502,597 57,085,726’ 58,723,137
Advances .. 27,141,333 26,195,836 34,222,923
Premises . . 1,313,001 1,267,485 1,530,200
The growth in advances was accom-
panied by an increase of £4,920,305 in
deposits, which, unfortunately, does not
indicate increasing real wealth unless ac-
companied by a corresponding expansion
of real assets. Liquids (down £3,362,589)
include £29,284,000 on special deposit
with the Commonwealth Bank—the
largest single item among the Co.’s
assets. Treasury bills (£4,000,000) and
Commonwealth Government securities
(£3,118,015) together total £7,118,015.
The co. is thus assisting the Federal
Government to the tune of over £36
millions, or two-fifths of its total assets.
Expansion of the business, to which
16 new branches contributed, aldded
£323,541 to gross earnings (£1,980,339).
Including the tax bill (£283,174, up
£20,989), the advance in exes. (£1,697,166)
was £302,552. The net result was thus
£20,988 stronger at £283,173. That
covered the pref. div. (£84,694) apd 9.9
p.c. on ord. capital. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) the
year’s profit was' no more than 4.7 p.c.
The div. was lifted from a nominal 7.5
p.c. to 8 p.c.—nominal because it is
worth only half those rates on all but a
small fraction of the ord. capital, which
was gathered at a premium of 100 p.c.
The £4,117,350 of capital is in 211,735
£lO 4 p.c. prefs., cumulative to 3 p.c., and
4.000. ords. of 10s. each. The ords.
at 225. 3d. (21s. at end 1946) return 3.6
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis'. The prefs.
at £ll also yield 3.6 p.c. on the basis of
a 4 p.c, distribution.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
a ~ t To Re- Re—
Apm, i ront. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
}oqI" ? 5(189 I P-c-= 9,938 5,251 22,291
iqqo’‘ Zf ” « 12 ’ 422 3(530 25,821
1939.. 14,979 7| „ „ 12,422 2,557 28,378
Unexplained reduction, £3260 .. 25 118
iqI?” I P- c - = 8(281 974 26.092
uu?" ” » 9(937 1,630 27,722
1943” in’ k ” ” 9(937 1(150 ' 28 - 872
1944 Iq’oqq 1 q’oqq * ” ” 8(281 2(435 31,307
jojt" ,?‘?f 3 5 » » 8(281 1,702 33,009
I ” ” 11(593 2(992 36(001
!946.. 21,296 9 „ „ 14,907 6,389 42,390
Fro “t-> sale 9 f property, £10,397 .. 52,787
1947.. 23,968 10 p.c. = 16,563 7,405 60,192
The 10 p.c. distribution exceeded market
anticipations. The price of the f.-p. pound
ords., which had advanced from the
official ceiling of 245. 6d. at end 1946 to
31s. in June, rose to 325. following pub-
lication of the accounts and declaration
of a final 4 p.c, div., plus 2 p.c. bonus,
which, with an interim 4 p.c., made 10 p.c.
for the year as against 9 p.c. for the
previous term. Allowing for the final
div. and bonus, the net price to the in-
vestor at 325. is 30s. 10d., which gives
a return of 6.5 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c.
distribution continues. On the same basis,
the lOs.-paid contribs. at 16s. net return
6.2 p.c. Net tangible cover is 28s. 6d.
per pound of paid capital.
Obviously the market doubts the co.’s
ability to maintain a steady 10 p.c. distri-
bution Though the business is well
handled and in better trim than it was
pre-war, its history supports the doubt.
For 11 years to the close of accounts in
1922 a steady 10 p.c. was handed out.
Then aggressive competition and price-
cutting produced fluctuating results, and
divs. averaged 8 p.c. for the nine gener-
ally flush years to 1931. For the next
three years those on the register were
shown an empty basket. Earnings steadily
improved over the five years to 1939, and
divs. averaged 6 p.c. Meanwhile, new
premises adjoining the Haymarket (head-
quarters) depot were built and paid for
out of compensation received from the
Sydney City Council, and the Brisbane
branch, which had become a drag, was
closed.
War brought reduced turnover, owing
to price-fixing, rationing and other restric-
tions, while lifts in taxation and other
costs made exes, difficult to restrain.
However, divs. averaged 5.6 p.c. for the
half-dozen years to 1945. There has
since been a steady relaxation of some
controls, and mpre of the goods the co.
handles—they include tobacco, radios and
a wide range of sporting equipment, in-
cluding firearms and ammunition—be-
came available to a hungry market, in
which demand still runs ahead of supply
for most lines.
The improvement in gross earnings last
term amounted to £67,286: — ' ■
1939. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Gross profit. . £154,975 £178,808 £148,616 £215,902
Exes 139,996 167,721 127,320 191,934
Net profit .. £14,979 £11,087 £21,296 £23,968
The net result benefited by £2671 of the
gain, making it 14.4 p.c. on capital as
against 12.8 p.c. and 8.8 p.c. for the two
preceding years. Last term’s £23,968 of
profit compares with an average of
£13,768 for the five years to 1939.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of turnover. Costs
promise to be the troublesome item;
recent wage lifts and introduction of the
40-hour week will bite into takings. Much
will depend upon what happens when
supply overtakes demand and competi-
tion begins to make itself felt again.
During the year the co. sold one of its
properties adjacent to the Haymarbt
depot which had been let. The profit I
the deal was £10,397, which was added
to reserves, and the book value of W
holds decreased by £27,423 net:
1938. 1942. 1946. 1947
Paid capital.. £166,008 £166,004 £166,000 £166,000
Mortgages .. 130,207 118,664 118 618
Other liabilities 102,981 91,553 76 869
Tax reserve.. 9,053 17,387 S»3« BjS
Freeholds .. 21 2,915 191,21 2 191,468 164 J-
Plant, etc. .. 19,288 11,577 8 089 527
Stocks.. .. 102,433 123,774 49,499 si ’III
Book debts 105,517 98,224 27,818 6731 s
Cash, etc. .. 543 3,490 165,791 191,39*
Last term’s brisker trading is reflected in
the growth of £35,261 (71 p.c.) ih stocks
and £39,500 (142 p.c.) in debtors’ bal-
ances. The management is in a favorable
position to take advantage of whatever
buying opportunities offer, thanks to the
strong cash holding (up £25,605). The
improvement in the more or less licmid
surplus (£66,359) was £42,587,
Swallow & Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
r -1 Dividends To Be- Re
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 20.282 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 14,00 0 6,282 107 142
1938.. 20,398 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 4,398 U1’540
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd., and Subsidiaries
1939. ,14,292 6 p.c. 2i p.c. 11,000 3,292 93 704
1940.. 22.147 6 „ 5 ~.16,0 0 0 6147 99 861
1941.. 22.137 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 6,137 105,988
1942.. 24.54 8 6 ~ 5 ,* 16,00 0 8,548 114 536
Net loss sale of assets, £9415 .. .. 105’121
1943. .42,571 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 18,000 26,571 131*692
1944. .49,238 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 33,238 164J30
To staff fund, £5OOO 159 930
Deferred Maintenance Keserve ]
appears, £10,500 .. .. 1 34.164 194 094
1945.. 40.664 6 p.c. 5i p.c. 17,000 / ’
To staff fund, £5 00 0 189 094
1946. .53,523 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 18,000 35,523 224’0i7
To staff fund, £5OOO 219617
From Def’d Maint. Res., £1657 1 ’
1947.. 54.186 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 f ' 28 ’ 529 248 - 146
To staff fund, £5OOO 243,146
The outlook for shareholders in this
old-established biscuit, cake and plum-
pudding business looks more promising
than for many years'. Over a long period
keen competition and difficulties associ-
ated with plant and costs kept earnings
and distributions to shareholders at
moderate levels. War brightened the pic-
ture. Turnover went up with a rush, and
civilian trade had to be curtailed to meet
defence and Comforts Fund demands.
Earnings responded to the fuller and
more profitable use of plant, and the
board wisely seized the opportunity to
build up the co.’s resources—the allow-
ance for depreciation, etc., was
strengthened, divs. were kept moderate
and more was put by than was dis-
tributed.
Over the last eight years divs. averaged
5.5 p.c., £100,390 was added to reserves,
£122,969 to the debt, mainly on account
of provision for taxation, the book value
of fixed assets was reduced by £176,920
and cash, etc,, strengthened by £400,279;
Consolidated Figures.
1939. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital,. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft .. 35,575
Creditors ... 86,731 53,308 73,353 75,897
Tax reserve., 7,953 89,432 127,946 127,331
Freeholds .. 206,378 198,236 148,442 129,913
Plant, etc. .. 155,456 139,607 88,931 44,986
Stocks .. 51,532 77,970 79,342 69,373
Debtors .. 60,482 78,342 95,836 93,194
Cash, etc. .. 3,62 5 26,120 8 68,365 4 28,908
When the books last closed cash. Gov-
ernment securities, etc,, exceeded paid
capital by £123,908. The co. is
financially ready to modernise - plant,
equipment and premises. The work has
been planned and authority received to
go ahead with it. Its completion, likely
to be delayed by shortages of labor and
materials, ought to enhance the co.’s
competitive power by reducing produc-
tion and handling costs.
Last term sales were “maintained,”
though production was restricted owing
to shortages of materials and labor and
repeated interruption to fuel supplies.
Good progress was made with re-estab-
lishment of the export section of the
business, which had been built up with
southern Asia pre-war ; but shortages of
tinplate have lately compelled suspension
of this trade, The ice-cream subsidiary
paid an unstated div. out of increased
earnings, and the dehydration offshoot,
which has been operating on a much-
reduced scale since closure of the Gov-
ernment annexe, made a small profit.
Gross earnings (£308,131) stepped up
£19,349. Including a liberal £32,932
(down £261) for depreciation and
£70,079 (down £746) for taxation, exes.
(£253,945) took all but £663 of the gain.
That disregards a net reduction of £1657
in the deferred maintenance reserve. The
£54,186 of profit—best showing in the
co.’s history—was 18 p.c, on capital as
against 17.8, 13.3, 16.4, 14.1, 8.1, 7.3 and
7.3 p.c, back to 1940. A 2 p.c. bonus
was sent out with the 6 p.c. div., making
an all-round 8 p.c. for the year as against


LORD MAYOR'S FUND
The Chairman and Oojmcil of the Lord Mayor’s
Fund invite applications for an Assistant Secre-
tary to the Lord Mayor’s Fund for Metropolitan
Hospitals and Charities, with the prospect of
succession to the position of Secretary and
Chief Executive Officer.
Applicants will be required to have knowledge
and experience of organising and of secretarial
duties.
Applications to be submitted in writing, stat-
ing age, and enclosing copies of references and
general credentials. These should be addressed
to the Chairman of The Advisory Board of The
Lord Mayor’s Hospitals Fund, 243 Collins Street,
Melbourne, 0.1, and should be received on or
before 30th August.
Personal canvass by applicants will disqualify.
Preference will be given to Returned Servicemen,
r. R. CONNELXY, X,ord Mayor.
SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
opiate iltatt
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
c S»tL
T ne y
Thone BW 1561 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
and pave the way for
a Prosperous Future
Write Now!
BOX 17. P. 0.,
CHATSWOOD. N.S.W.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt,
OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
AS AT CLOSE OF BUSINESS ON 30th JUNE, 1947.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Prefer-
ence Shares of
£lO .. ..£3,000,000 0 0
4,000,000 Ordi-
nary shares of
10s. each .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Prefer-
ence shares
fully paid in
cash to £lO
per share .. £2,117,350
4,000,000 Ord.
Shares fully
paid in cash to
10s. per share 2,000,000
0 0
0 0
0 0
Paid-up Capital. £4,117,350
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business of the
Bank)
Exchange Adjust-
ment Reserve
(used in the
business of the
Bank)
Final Dividend
proposed pay-
able August,
1947
Balance of Profit
and Loss A/c 123,796 5 8
2,000,000 0 0
250,000 0 0
122,347 0 0
Total Shareholders’ Funds * ..£6,613,493 5
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities, including provisions
for Taxation and Contingencies 82,690,459 16
Notes in Circulation .. .. 5,103 0
Balances due to Other Banks .. 167,204 1
£89,476,260 3 6
Contingent Liabilities (as per
contra in regard to obligations
of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guaran-
tees, etc.)
.£3,931,910 19 7
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Re-
serve Bank of New Zealand Notes
and Cash at Bankers .. .. £8,374,697 11 8
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks 1,859,808 6 6
Balances with and due from Other
Banks .. 128,107 17 0
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government' .. .. 4,000,000 0 0
Publit Securities
(at or under
market value) —
Australian
Government £3,118,104 18 1
Other Govern-
ment .. 2,982,357 2 11
Local and Semi-
Governmental
Authoriti e s 246,065 10 8
6,346,527 11 8
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia .. 29,248,000 0 0
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit.. .. .. .. 3,744,638 1 2
Stamps 21,357 7 1
£53,723,136 15 1
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting pro-
vision for Debts considered Bad
or Doubtful) .. .. .. 34,222,922 18 5
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
(at cost less amounts written off) 1,530,200 10 * 0
£89,476,260 3 6
Contingent Assets (comprising Lia-
bilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit,. Drafts,
Guarantees, etc., as per contra) £3,931,910 19 7
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in
Australian currency.)
Profit and Loss Account in Respect of the Year Ended 30th June, 1947.
To Expenses—Head Office, 507
Branches and Agencies (in-
cluding Directors’ Fees,
£3,087 10s. Od.) .. ..£1,403,979 19 5
~ Income, Land and Other Taxes 293,18<5 1 1
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the Year carried down .. 283,173 13 11
£1,980,339 14 5
To Amounts written off Bank
Premises
„ Dividends —
Interim paid
Feb., 1947.. £122,347 0 0
Final pro-
posed payable
August, 1947 122,347 0 0
Balance carried forward
£35,000 0 0
244,694 0 0
123,796 5 8
£403,490 5 8
By Discount and Interest earned,
net Exchange, Commissions and
Other Income after deducting
Interest Paid and Accrued on
Deposits, Rebate on Bills Cur-
rent at balance date and Ap-
propriations to the credit of
Contingencies Accounts (out of
which Accounts provision for
all Bad and Doubtful Debts
has been made) .. .. £1,980,339 14 5
£1,980,339 14 5
By Net Balance brought forward. . £120,316 11 9
„ Net Profit for the year .. 283,173 13 11
£403,490 5 8
By Balance
£123,7-96 5 8
I, PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM GORDON, General Manage of The Commer-
cial Bank of Australia Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve,
the Exchange Adjustment Reserve, and accumulated profits are used in the business,
and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss of the
Bank are to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the
Company at the date of the Statement: JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, Shipowner, Mel-
bourne; WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON, Merchant, Melbourne; WILLIAM JAMES
BYRNE, Solicitor, Melbourne; WILLIAM SYDNEY REID, Merchant, Melbourne;
VICTOR YULE KIMPTON, Flour Miller, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria
rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt
perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 24th day of July, One thousand
nine hundred and forty-seven.
Before me— P. F. G. GORDON.
H. F. CLARKE.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.’’’
We, WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, WILLIAM SYDNEY REID and VICTOR YULE
KIMPTON, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia
Limited, do hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true
and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state
of the Company’s affairs, and that the Statement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true
and correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year.
On behalf of the Board,
W. J. BYRNE.
W. S. REID,
Dated at Melbourne this 24th day of July, 1947. V. Y. KIMPTON.
Auditors’ Report to Shareholders
Melbourne, 24th July, 1947.
To the Shareholders of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We report that we have audited the account's of your Bank for the year ended
30th June, 1947, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up,
and exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs and that
the Statement of Profit and Loss is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year, according
to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by
the books of the Company.
The London Office Return to the 30th June, 1947, duly audited by Messrs.
Jackson, Pixley and Co., has been submitted to us, the Assets and Liabilities at the
Branches being taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants.
We have received every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and they have
supplied us with all the information and explanations we have required.
We are, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully.
E. FOOKES,
WM. S. PHILP,
Chartered Accountants (Australia).
r>c for the previous term. The
£3OO 000 of paid capital includes 100,000
£ ( 6 ’ dc prefs., which advance with the
ords. in any distribution beyond that
The 30s ords'. paid to 20s. and the
f-p pound prefs. at 365. lOd. and 375.
respectively each return approximately
43 pc on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is £4 18s. lOd. prefs. and
395. sd. ords.
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd.
This Melbourne-controlled exploration
and finance co. (paid capital £52,219 in
f.-p. 2s. 6d. shares) recorded a loss of
£1206 for the year to end March last as
against a profit of £3893 for the previous
year The loss was due to expenditure
of £2662 on unsuccessful investigations.
Scout boring of probable dredging areas
on the Margaret and McKmlay Rivers,
some 150 miles south of Darwin, proved
disappointing and the leases were aban-
doned.
Chief interest now centres in forma-
tion of a new co. to work the Amphi-
theatre, Jim Crow and Guildford leases
in Victoria as one unit. These areas are
adjacent to Victoria Gold Dredging Co. s
property, whose'life has been cut short
by a fall in values and rising costs'.
The new co., Central Victoria Dredg-
ing Co., N.L., has been registered with
a nominal capital of £500,000 in 10s.
shares, of which 395,500 have been
taken by Gold Exploration and Finance,
52,050 by G.M.A. and 400 each by
Walter Massy-Greene, G. Lindsay Clark
and W. D. Brooks.
On August 19 the V.G.D. Co. will ask
its shareholders to agree to the sale of the
co.’s 175,000-c.-y.-a-month all-steel elec-
trically-driven dredge, together with
some freehold and other assets, to the
new co. for 125,000 f.-p. 10s. shares —
one for every two existing shares in the
old Victoria Co. On completion of
dredging of V.G.D.’s ground about the
middle of next year the machine is to be
reconstructed and transferred to the
Amphitheatre area. Another dredge to
work the Jim Crow and then the Guild-
ford leases is under construction, but is
not expected to commence work before
the last half of 1948.
Boring has disclosed the following re-
sults in each of the three areas:
Approx.
Ground Gold
Area. Proved. Value.
Amphitheatre .. .. 20,000,000 c.y. 2.4 grs.
Jim Crow .. .. 10,500,000 „ 2.5 „
Guildford .. .. 6,000,000 „ 2.2 „
Clay has been met with in the Amphi-
theatre section, but tests of material
from old shafts and other workings sug-
gest that “a very good recovery will be
obtained.” There are also some old
workings, up and down stream, in
this area yet to be tested. The Jim Crow
and Guildford leases were held jointly by
G.M.A. and Gold Exploration and
Finance. Boring of the Guildford sec-
tion is incomplete.
The Queensland Government recently
granted G.M.A. an authority to prospect
over 25 miles of auriferous country near
Miclere, Clermont district. Gold Ex-
ploration and Finance has joined G.M.A,
in this venture on a4O p.c. basis. In the
past coarse gold has been won at Miclere
and Black Ridge to a depth of about
200 ft., where the schists come in. The
intention is to make a thorough geologi-
cal survey of the area and then test
likely prospects by drilling.
At end March G.M.A. had £54,169 in
cash, debtors’ balances, etc., and there
was only £4567 coming to outsiders. The
market prices the co.’s scrip at 17s. 6d.
or thereabouts.
“Towersite”: The Venus State Battery,
Charters Towers (N.Q.), idle since 1943,
has had three batteries (15-head of
stamps) reconditioned and equipped with
new accessory plant and fittings. It is
now in commission testing quantities and
qualities of ores available. The Pros-
pectors’ Association is complaining of
the charges; crushing 19s. 6d. per ton
under 20 tons to 15s. 6d. per ton over
50 tons; cyaniding 19s. 6d. per ton with
an outright payment, less that amount, of
75 p.c. of the values of sands up to sdwt.
per ton and 85 p.c. with sands over
lOdwt. per ton. Values are determined
by Government assay, gold being valued
at £8 16s. per oz. fine. Excluding allow-
ances for losses in cyanide residues, these
charges represent 4dwt. gold per ton. In
South Australia, similar State treatment
requires 2dwt. gold per ton, with first
parcels up to 25 tons from new mines
treated free of charge. Westralian State
charges are reckoned to be similar to
S.A. with a transport subsidy up to
12s. 6d. per ton. The Territory offers
free rail transport and a subsidy towards
other transport. Queensland has lately
increased the prospecting allowance to
30s. per week single men and £2 10s. per
week married men. Other State treatment
plants are at Irvinebank and Bamford
(tin, wolfram, etc.) and Kidston (gold),
all in North Queensland.
■ * * *
Two prospecting authorities, one of
830 acres on the northern and the other
of 1960 acres on the southern boundary
of Mt. Isa’s holding (Q.), have been
granted to C. A. Byme, mining consultant
of Brisbane, who is acting for undisclosed
southern mining interests —believed to
be one of the big operating cos. at the
Barrier (N.S.W.).
* * * *
At Marble Bar on the Pilbara field
(W.A.) Comet goldmine, which is furthest
north of the Westralian De- Bernales
group, is having the last of its visible
wealth extracted —optimists hope that
more will be found to keep it going.
To date the Comet has furnished good
yields, but the gold carrier, like those of
other Pilbara mines, has failed to live at
depth.


w j-^yfeajtfesy^ r <griiii
«sis£:
4<
Q:
:rsr;
OC
ilia
h>. ■ i ~ s^&gyftw^»^ww»*
01 o
k>
CSi®BS5S^
<V <V.
4V
r«s>4
it- y -'^rA^ti
asasi
isjet?
S>
'a
vjnsC??P?^sSE^»
<j>
.?
V
A/so available In
handsome black or
while luminous
dials.
&
mmm
SHOC/CPROOr
The INCA-BLOC, a new revolu-
tionary fitting, protects the deli-
cate balance against the most
severe jars, shock and concussion,
k WATERPRO
» and not ~m avbe *• Tho ~
vk
'sC
i
and not "maybe." The
Felca "Magnificent" is definitely _J*
proof againsf immersion in water
for considerable periods and is
unaffected by any moisture or dust. *•
Isc-r
RON-MAGNETIC
V 5
The Felca "Magnificent"
is unaffected by proximity to any
electrical surroundings, in motor -*.•
cars, aeroplanes, etc., or by per- -'1
sonal magnetism
| HEAT PRO COLO
T RESISTANT
The special metal used in fhe-
Hair Spring and Balance expands ’
and contracts according to tem-
perature, ensuring accuracy under
all weather conditions.
r “MAGNIFICENT" 10 Gns .
This great watch was built for a specific purpose. In
addition to being a faultless timekeeper, streamlined and
snug-fitting, it had to be waterproof, with wear-resisting
qualities far beyond the ordinary, In order to comply with
American Government specifications. Produced by the
famous Felca Works, this masterpiece of Swiss craftsman-
ship is now available in civil life and includes exclusive
wartime features never before offered in a watch of such
low price.
Slim Paris Model case of highly polished stainless steel
. . . handsome two-tone luminous dial . . . unbreakable
crystal . . . 17-jewel Swiss lever movement . . . sweep
second hand . . . accurate timing . . . written guarantee
with every watch. . , . Price, TO gns. Fitted with English
stainless steel expanding band, 12/6 extra.
Large range of Ladies’ Felca Watches also available.
c
o
n
au £
a
Mail
Order
S P
lists
ecia
A.C.A. Bldg., 66 King St. (Cnr. York St.), Sydney.
All mail orders are registered and post free. Direct
enquiries to John Hay & Co., Dept. AE,
585 Military Road, Mosman, Sydney.
’Phone XM 7483.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOLTH
WALES—In Divorce. ,
TO JOHN FRANCIS OWENS formerly of. « AIM
Street Islington in the State of New South has
TAKE NOTICE that MABEL ANN!® OWENS b
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 5421 of 19
grounds of desertion without just cause ,
for three years and upwards If you wish to
you may enter an appearance in the Sup _. b
King Street Sydney by the 14th day of October
1947 and obtain a copy of the petition free of harg
from A. ALISTER JOHNSON & MCDONALD, Son
citors, of 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle,or
CORCORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly Baib
York Street, Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, K g
trar in Divorce.
SUNDRY SHOWS
BRISBANE SHOW.
Neither light rain and a cloudy day
nor the National Plate at Eagle Farm
had any visible effect on the opening of
Brisbane’s Royal Show —snap estimates
set attendance figures as equal to, or
above, last year’s.
Fittingly, Queensland beef took the
stage on the opening day and the cattle
exhibition is reckoned to better any-
thing of its kind in Australia. Herefords
are by far the most popular and in
numbers easily outclass any other breed
—the first prize champion Hereford gets
£lOO (given by Finneys) which is the
largest single prize given in Australia for
one particular breed. The standard of
cattle generally is higher than ever,
. There is no evidence of Queensland’s
droughts at the Exhibition grounds. The
fruit pavilion is overflowing and features
an outstanding display of Stanthorpe
apples, arranged by John Wilson. Butter
and cheese were equal to exhibits any-
where —the Downs Co-operative Dairy
Association’s Jandowae factory carried
off the butter championship while the
champion cheese hailed from Springside.
Some district exhibits were flown from
as far south as Mudgee, Dubbo and
Narromine in N. S. Wales.
Sharing the lower side of Gregory-
terrace are the sheep, wool and poultry
and motors, dogs and machinery; across
the road are the neddies, porkers and
beef cattle; and over the railway line
are the dairy cattle and-Further livestock
in the shape of “Miss Gloria’s Perform-
ing Pigs” (“Clean and Clever”), “Mal-
colm’s Mice Circus” with 200 live per-
forming mice, “Happy Harry,” the
amazing double-jointed horse, and “Tiny
Toy,” the smallest horse alive. “The
Tallest Man on Earth,” “The Fattest
Couple Alive,” “The Midget Chinese
Man” and “The Central African Pigmy
Woman on her Hunting Zebra” are also
among those present and are, no doubt,
being subjected to predatory scrutiny by
the curator of the Museum just across
the line.
Possibly having seen or heard of some
of the goings-on at Sydney R.A.S., Bris-
bane Prices Branch wallahs descended on
the show with good effect —novelties are
almost reasonably priced by Show stand-
ards. There are steady streargs of people
through the turnstiles, but police and
ambulance men report only normal busi-
ness, except for the cattle expert who was
caught bending by a prize bull, and the
small boy who found a ten-shilling note
immediately in front of an ice-cream
booth.
Simon Barere.
The Russian-born American pianist in
his first Sydney recital at the Town Hall
on Saturday night struck the greatest
blow for the cause of the classical-
romantic school for many years.
The shallow inanities of Ravel, Bartok,
Britten and other modernists —large slabs
of whose “works” are inflicted by some
visiting virtuosi on long-suffering con-
certgoers —are not for Barere, who holds
rightly—that Chopin and Liszt,
with Schumann a close third, were the
greatest writers for the piano, and that
mastery of their works is a prerequisite
of mastery of all the rest.
The programme the pianist set himself
was one from which all but a handful of
the greatest would shrink appalled.
Bach’s Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue
and Schumann’s Symphonic Studies Op.
13 are strong enough meat for any vir-
tuoso to fasten his teeth in. As if these
weren’t enough for his gargantuan appe-
tite, Barere added Balakireff’s “Islamey,”
probably the most difficult piece, techni-
cally, ever written for the keyboard.
“Islamey” demands something more
than mere digital dexterity. It is an
Oriental fantasy, the rich colors and
melodic line of which could easily be-
come lost in the swirling arpeggios and
runs taken at terrific pace. It was in the
swift shifting of tonal masses, with a
crystal clarity maintained throughout,
and the delicate nuances when the turbu-
lent river again became a stream that
Barere’s complete mastery of his instru-
ment became apparent.
The Schumann set of 12 variations on
a lyric theme are the closest the com-
poser got in his piano literature to the
direct expression. The pianist’s' soaring
flights of tone, almost limitless in their
expanse, culminated in the finale given
with great beauty and majesty,
Chopin’s Ballade No. 4, the Nocturne
in D Flat Major and the Scherzo in C
Sharp Minor, two Rachmaninoff Pre-
ludes and Liszt’s Sonnetto 104 del
Petrarca and the Twelfth Rhapsody were
exquisite examples of a pianism in the
tradition of Busoni, Liszt and Rach-
maninoff, on whose old instrument
Barere played.
"Scheherazade."
Martin Rubinstein’s Slave in “Sche-
herazade” is so good that it is hard not
to be critical of the other dancers and
other ballets on the current Borovansky
programme at Sydney Royal. Edna
Busse made a lovely entrance in “The
Swan Lake,” but thereafter the dancing
became too mechanical and unfeeling
for a romantic ballet. And, even if
swans do waddle in their less-picturesque
moments it is surely unnecessary to re-
quire Miss Busse, Miss Gorham and
Miss Kennedy to do likewise in the cause
of zoological accuracy.
“Le Spectre de la Rose,” also, was
too real and substantial to preserve its
delicate romanticism. For a dream
Vassilie Trunoff was too material and
muscular, while Miss Busse, instead of
dancing in a dream, seemed almost tired.
Trunoff dominated the ballet and its
essential fine dramatic balance was lost.
In “Scheherazade,” however, Martin
Rubinstein danced like someone pos-
sessed, Time and again he gave the un-
canny impression of having leaped
straight from a Lindsay painting. There
was a hypnotic attraction about the
sinuosity and animal vitality of his danc-
ing, and his death leap and frenzy ended
the ballet, despite the dramatic excel-
lence of Tamara Tchinarova’s subsequent
spectacular demise. Tchinarova trans-
lated Zobeide into a gypsy-like character
particularly suited to her dancing and
stage personality, then acted and danced
that role splendidly,
William Constable’s ddcor for “Sche-
herazade is heavy—fewer colors and
more flashing brilliance are needed to
set off the Oriental richness of the
characters and the narrative. William
Dargie’s decor for “Capriccio Italien”
(story and choreography by Borovansky
to Tschaikowsky’s.' music) is much
happier there’s Mediterranean sunshine
streaming through it and through the
dances and dancing of Kathleen Gor-
ham, Tchinarova, Rubinstein and Alfred
Ross. The ballet is a trifle, but a pretty
one a little more accent on its dramatic
incident would increase its weight.
Reviewed Briefly .
The stately dignity of “In Diesen Heil
’Gen Hallon,” from Mozart’s “Magic
Flute, suits well the rich resonance of
Oliver King’s matured and mellow voice.
The basso-cantante in his Sydney Town
Hall recital rounded out a very well-
balanced programme with excerpts from
“Don Carlos” and “Faust,” lieder by
Wolf and Schubert, seventeenth- and
eighteenth-century Italian songs by
Bononcini, Stradella, Giordani and Scar-
latti, old English aris by Arne and Pur-
cell and Bach’s “Good Fellows Be
Merry.” Mr. King’s voice is admirably
suited to the easy flowing style of the
cantata. Only one number, “Rataplan,”
a Mexican song, jarred. From the courtly
grace of the lute to the jangling guitar
was too much.
* * * *
Neither John Antill’s “atmospheric
sounds,” nor the scenery prepared and
painted by a whole clutch of artists from
sixteenth-century Persian miniature paint-
ings, nor the clouds of smoke from burn-
ing incense which billowed across Sydney
Consefvatorium could conceal the fact
that Flecker’s “Hassan” is a narrative
poem rather than a play. Or, at the
most, a play to be read rather than acted
—too often its imagery runs away with
its poetry and, more often, the poetry
runs off with the play. In those circum-
stances, Sydney University Dramatic
Society’s production—their first major
effort since 1941—is a good one. By some
dexterous, almost quaint, symbolism and
juggling of scenery they have managed to
impart some semblance of action to the
long, inactive, thought- and word-laden
“play.” Dmitri Makaroff, as Hassan, was
the best of a large cast, competent enough
but not always happy with lines and
speeches more often a challenge than an
invitation to any actor.
* * * *
All the mechanical and costume re-
sources' of machinery of the Marlowe
Society at Melbourne University’s Union
Theatre couldn’t conceal the fact that,
basically, Jean Giraudoux’s “Amphitryon
38” is an average naughty French bed-
room comedy done up in classical clob-
ber. Thirty-eight playwrights, from
Plautus to Moliere, have tried their fist at
the Greek legend, and Giraudoux’s effort
is the latest and not the best. There is an
undergraduate flavor about it which may
have appealed to the undergraduates
assembled. Lloyd Thomson played
Jupiter and looked like Father Christ-
mas, Joan Harvey was Alkmena and
Harry Samson her husband. Vivianne
Ashkanasy was free and easy as Queen
Leda, another of Jove’s fancies. The
society did better in “Edward II,” a
better play by the society’s namesake.
* * * *
A. D. Colquhoun and Amalie Col-
quhoun, who are holding their annual
joint show at Melbourne Athenaeum,
have the same approach to Nature, and
as they have much the same degree of
skill, their works are often indistinguish-
able, But there is no lack of variety
about their pictures. Both show portraits,
and Mr« Colquhoun has a large nude
study, rather harshly painted. Their
method finds liveliest expression in land-
scapes. Mrs. Colquhoun’s “The Head-
land” and “Fishing at Evening” are airy,
and Mr. Colquhoun gives his method a
severe test by hanging a group of evening
studies of the same scene, a lovely estuary
at Lome with a thin stream of water
petering out into the ocean, painted under
every possible variation of light —“Sea
Mist Rising at Evening,” “While the
Color Is in the Sky,” “The After Glow,
“Another Effect of the Sea Mist,” etc.
It is an interesting demonstration of the
fact that Nature is infinite in subject
matter.


No. 14 of Series
Soap • • •
UdW
z
v
s
CM
m
HARD soap is made by boiling animal fats and
vegetable oils with water and caustic soda.
Soap cleanses, or to use a scientific term “deterges,"
by attaching itself to particles of dirt and holding
them in suspension in the suds. The dirt particles
held in this way do not settle again on the fabric
or other surface being washed. They are carried
away down the drain by the rinsing water and the
“wash" is left clean. There is a Variety of soaps
besides hard soaps, but the manufacture of all of
them depends not only on natural fats
and oils, but upon alkalis, salt and
other substances produced by the
British chemical industry.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
—
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates IL-28-1*
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
It was obvious long before the finish of the
Australian Steeple at Caulfield on Saturday
that the hot favorite, Formidable, was going
to miss out. Ridden along to hold a forward
position, he was jumping poorly and appeared
to be struggling, though 10.6 should not hay
been an excessive impost for such a big let-
low. Allowing those ahead to cut at each
other, C. Morley didn’t begin to move Boon-
dale up till they were approaching the last ot
the 29 fences. Getting then to the front,
Boondale ran on to a most comfortable win
from Don Gipsy and High Flash. Boondale,
an aged mare by Friarsdale from Boonewa,
was having her first run over the fences and
carried lib. more than the favorite.
First Aid made a good attempt in the
Arkaringa Hurdle, but he’s fighting a losing
battle with the handicapper. He had a steadier
of 11.7, Priority being next in the weights with
10.2. Leading round the turn, Repeater shifted
out, allowing Winpar (B. R. Smith) to come
through on the inside, which almost certainly
gave Winpar the half-head advantage he had
at the finish. Well handled by Meenan, First
Aid got to within half a length of them. Re-
peater has not been out of a place in his
four starts over the jumps.
Best on the day of the large hunch of three-
year-olds contesting the Chatsworth Plate proved
to be Solvive (G. Bougoure), bringing his
record to two wins and a second from four
starts. Finishing on well at the end of the
mile, Vantage was a commendable second and
Casson third. Chanak, needing an outing,
also ran a clinking good race. Solyxve is
beautifully bred on staying lines. His sire was
imported Genetout, a noted stayer and a winner
both in France and Australia. Solvive’s dam
Sunny Sky is by Magpie from Sunny Land,
a half-sister to the dam of Windbag.
Suspect because of a fall the previous week,
the Manitoba gelding Canada (R. Hutchinson)
was not much fancied for the 12-furlongs
Malakoff Stakes, but, rattling home with a
stout, late run, he showed that there was
nothing much amiss with him. Half a length
to Stenelaus and a like margin to King’s Walk.
Incidentally, H. Badger, after a delayed inquiry,
was given two months suspension, being held
responsible for the smash in* which Canada and
Singlescript came down at Caulfield, with lead-
ing apprentice D. Snart seriously injured.
Divisions of the seven-furlongs St. Aubin
Handicap went respectively to Millais (V.
Hartney) and Felstar (G. Bougoure), Ihe
Caithness mare Heather Rose (J. Gilmore) won
the nine-furlongs Cambria Plate for four-year-
olds: Nolan next and Tudor Prince third.
* * * *
At Moorefield on Saturday Mixed Stakes
again comprised half the programme—four of
them; two at six furlongs, one at eight and
one at ten. These events have been excep-
tionally popular, but the whole idea of them
seems to be destroyed when apprentices are
allowed to claim, as happened for the first
time on Saturday. If apprentices were being
deprived of mounts, which isn’t likely in view
of the big fields which have been a feature
of the Mixed Stakes, it would have been better
to preserve the original idea of the events and
simply have less of ’em.
Old Brazier well merits being labelled an
“iron horse.” He had close to 30 runs last
season, nearly always running a good race and
striking a purple patch back in January to
win three in a row. He turned out again in
the Flying at Moorefield and went down by
only a half-neck to Yankee Lad (W. Cook),
Oriental being third. Rafferty rules were in
force during the running of the Flying, with
one of the worst sufferers Lackaboy, who should
have finished a lot closer than fifth.
Upsetting a long-standing tradition, the main
double was run upside down, as it were, with
the Moorefield Handicap preceding the Flying.
The Handicap went to Laudus (J. Thompson),
a win not out of turn, since the Midstream
six-year-old has for months been running con-
sistently fair races without winning. Cisco
and Deed were the placegetters.
For the Three-year-old popular choice lay
between Staunch and Wilcuma, but both were
beaten by the maiden performer Golden Plumes
(E. Fordyce). Not the first time that a race
over the so-called “hard” Moorefield mile has
been won by something apparently unable to
see out six furlongs elsewhere.
Horses to raise themselves 71b. for future
Mixed Stakes were Killiecrankie (N. Sellwood)
and Fossilist (H. Hanley), both on the minimum
mark and successful over six furlongs; Critique
(A. Podmore), who downed other mares and
fillies at a mile, and Rifle (H. Russell), who
won the 10-furlongs Mixed. The Welter went
to Titanic, making a double for Sellwood.
* * * *
The Australian nine-furlongs records of 1.49|,
established 20 years ago by Fuji San, went
west at Eagle Farm on Saturday when Felt
Force won the Sandgate Handicap, clocking
1.495. He had previously equalled the record,
so, with due allowance for the light weights he
has been carting, he is definitely a really good
horse. Fuji San carried 9.11 and Felt Force
7.12.
* • * »
N.Z. racing clubs must be suffering an
embarrassment of riches: the Auckland Cup
is to become a £lO,OOO affair, with a £lOO
trophy and £250 for the trainer of the winner,
making it a slightly richer race than either the
Melbourne Cup or the Doomben sprint. On
top of that comes the Egmont Racing Club,
with the glad news that, having had such a
successful year, it has decided to refund part
of nomination and acceptance fees to about
130 owners whose horses have been unplaced
at the club’s meetings. Owners are still reeling
from the shock.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):—
Three-year-old: Skip Court, 1; Altairian, 2;
Set Purpose, 3. Mixed Stakes (nine furlongs):
Neinby, 1; Our Bill, 2; Cursory, 3. Mixed
Stakes (11 furlongs); Rifle, 1; Binnia Lassie,
2; Legato, 3. Canterbury Park Handicap:
Decorate, 1; Buonarroti Boy, 2; Monogram, 3.
Frederick Clissold Handicap: Puffham, 1;
Lackaboy, 2; Prince Consort, 3. Welter:
Pearler, 1; Sonning, 2; Lucky Escape, 3.
Two outstanding features of present racing
in the U.S.A. are the extraordinarily high prize
money and the intelligent handicapping system
which gives a good horse a fair,. hut ,
crippling, weight. Whirlaway, champion a tew
years back, set a stake-winning record ot
$561,161, which seemed at the time unlikely
to be beaten. However, with U.S. racing no
including quite a number of $lOO,OOO even,
the three present outstanding gallopers, stymie,
Armed and Assault, have each surpassed
Whirlaway’s figures. The recent winning o
a $50,000 event at Boston brought Stymies
earnings to $719,660 or near enough to £225,tw0.
The race won was a nine-furlongs handicap
and die manner of American handicapping is
indicated by the fact that Stymie carried only
9.1. In Australia a horse with a comparable
record would get well over lOst. in any ot
“Sign that you waive all rights to the skin or I'll let him have you!"
the richer handicaps. Yet another $lOO,OOO
race has been announced by the Los Angeles
Turf Club. For just-turned four-year-olds,
it’s aptly named the Maturity Stakes, and con-
ditions provide a maximum weight of 9st.
and a minimum of Bst. Under those conditions
the good horse not only gets a reasonable
weight, but, further, isn’t so likely to have
his chances spoiled by an excessively large
field of no-hopers, nomination fees being ex-
ceedingly stiff.
« * * ♦
Aussie Rules matches:
The Australian football “carnival” in Hobart
has not done the game any good in the Rugby
States. Teams from Queensland, N.S.W. and
Canberra were hopeless against Vic., S.A., W.A.
and Tasmania, and the thing was made more
absurd by Vic. piling up a 36.17-2.7 score
against Queensland.
W.A., tired from the long tnp and somewhat
“muscle-bound,” lost to S.A., but turned pn
some splendid play in the mud to down Vic.
16.10-15.12. This gave Vic. the job of beating
S.A. by more than 7 goals to win the cham-
pionship, which, on a ground like a swamp,
it did in good style, 18.19-7.9.
The next “carnival” will be in Melbourne m
1950, by when some system of grading the
teams should be worked out.
In Sydney two W.A. club teams, Subiaco
and East Fremantle, beat N.S.W. successively
by 11.10-8.11 and 15.11-12.6.
The three Melbourne games on Saturday left
the V.F.L. position much the same, except
that Footscray moved up a notch by beating
North Melbourne, 11.10-10.12, Collingwood
got a shock from Melbourne, in a low-scoring
game, which was Melbourne’s by 7.19 to 7.14.
South Melbourne went to Geelong and defeat,
13 19-7.19. It’s Carlton, Essendon, Colling-
wood, Fitzroy, with Richmond knocking at the
door and Footscray hanging round the back
gate.
* * * *
“Golesnbek” discovers an enthusiast:
Rupert Bowen, a young ex-serviceman, is
taking a tegm of 25 under-15 Sydney boys to
Melbourne to play the curtain-raiser to the
Richmond-South Melbourne football match on
August 30. Bowen coaches and trains ’em
and he says the Australian game has such a
grip that he’s never short of recruits. Hxs
team —East-Waratah —plays in a Saturday
competition sponsored by the Police Boys
Clubs and running eight teams. Bowen also
runs a 15-18-years team and is being strongly
supported in Sydney’s eastern suburbs by
parents and citizens, who hope to work the
thing up into a big social and instructive youth
movement. The team .for Melbourne will be
the first N.S.W. boys’ side to play before a
big V.F.L. crowd, the Richmond-South Mel-
bourne match being the “game of the day”
on August 30. Next year Bowen hopes to
take a team to Adelaide.
* * * *
Rugby Union round-up:
Manly, head of the Sydney Rugby Union
table, beat Parramatta 13-3; a game which
was much more even than, the scores suggest.
A lot of the play was in Manly’s territory and
Manly’s forwards made risky experiments with
a greasy ball. Caldwell, Simpson and Martin
outstanding for Manly; Lehmann and Mann
battled hard for Parramatta.
Gordon decisively beat Randwick, 14-6, and
now has only Manly and East above it.
Breakaway Dennett played another good game
for Gordon, and Gordon backs had the speed
and the combination.
East beat University 32-3; Morcombe, Tate
and Kingsmill outstanding for the winners. At
the end of the term University usually has
manpower trouble and, like Randwick, it is
weakened by the loss of internationals. But,
as a team, it has sunk a long way.
Drummoyne beat Eastwood, 22-14; Eastwood
brought a potential star out of the hat in
V. Ball. A brilliant try by Lowe clinched the
game for Drummoyne. North, now one place
below Gordon, downed St. George 32-12. The
forwards did it, and Cornforth gave an ex-
hibition of pretty dribbling.
But Duntroon v. G.P.S. at the Sydney Show-
ground was the match of the day. The very
last movement, ending in a try, gave th
soldiers a 14-11 win over the schoolboys—
incidentally, the heavier side—after the most
exciting exhibition of Union seen this year in
Sydney; and that goes for the All Blacks.
* * * *
Australia abroad:
Australian reps, have been well in the sport-
ing news all round the globe in the past week
or so. There was Von Nida’s latest win in
the £l5OO Lotus Tournament at Holhnwell
(Eng.), while Perrier took the St. Paul
(U.S.A.) open tournament. In cricket G. Tribe
brought off an excellent double double, finding
himself the proud father of twins and taking
19 wickets in one match in England; at me
other end of the scale Pepper was severe y
censured by the Lancashire League for allegedly
using language which was too hot for me
umpire at whom it was directed. The race-
horse Eagle Hawk, formerly raced here by
J. C. Bendrodt, won a good handicap in Cali-
fornia, and in England Edgar Britt rode trebles
at two successive meetings. Sidwell, Harper,
Mrs. Bolton and others have been doing well
in various European tennis tournaments, and
Australia, represented by Brown and Pails for
the singles and Bromwich-Long for doubles,
had an easy win against Canada in the Davis
Cup match at Montreal.
* * * *
The S.A. golf championship final was
left to two Victorians, all the best local
men having gone out earlier. W. S.
Edgar, the holder, lost to D. Brown, who
was one down with only two to play, but
battled home on the 18th.
* * * *
Having his first fight this year, Eric
Macready (9.2£) carried too much class
for Andy Gollan (8.12) at Leichhardt.
More aggressive than when he drew with
Ted Sproustbr last August, Macready
floored Gollan for “six” with a right to
the chin in the first round. Solid rights
knocked Gollan down twice for long
counts in the next found, and when an-
other right dropped him in the third,
referee Art Mawson declared Macready
winner on a t.k.o.
« * * *
Eddie Marcus wouldn’t have been much
chop if he hadn’t easily beaten Filipino
Johnny Cinto at Melbourne Stadium.
Official weights were Eddie, 10.5;
Johnny, 9.133 —the difference looked a
lot more. Also, the Filipino hadn’t *had
enough training time. Result: a miser-
able one-sided affair, the American win-
ning by t.k.o. in the third round.
* * * *
Jack Read sifts the Sands:
After he had been knocked out by Dave
Sands in two rounds at Sydney Stadium on
August 5, American negro O’Neill Bell said
Sands hits harder than Jake La Motta, who is
rated in the U.S.A. as the world’s second-best
middleweight. In fact, Bell believes Sands
would go close to beating Rocky Graziano for
his 1*1.6 world title.
There’s a whole team of Sands fighting
brothers Clem, Ritchie, George, Dave and
Alfie. The Sands monicker is a nom de guerre.
The name’s Ritchie; and dad, George Ritchie,
won the N.S.W. North Coast lightweight cham-
pionship in other days.
Ritchie is a reputable name in boxing;
a Willie Ritchie held the world’s lightweight
title. Reason for the change to Sands by the
Australian boxing tribe was that “Snowy”
Sands, a guard on the N.S.W. North
Coast mail train who used to referee fights at
Kempsey, thought so well of one of the Ritchie
boys’ boxing that he urged him to go ur for
the game thoroughly. Hence Ritchie Sands,
first of them to make the name known.
Newcastle teacher - trainer - manager Tom
Maguire moulded Ritchie Sands into a class
performer. Indeed, Maguire has made main-
event fighters of all five brothers. Their ages:
Clem, 28; Ritchie, 25; George, 23 ; Dave, 21;
Alfie, 18.
On performances, Dave is undoubtedly the
best of them; judging by the way he beat Bell,
a world championship (middleweight or light-
heavy) is not beyond him. That would mean
he’d have to go after it. Boxers make so much
money in U.S.A. that Graziano or Lesnevich
is not likely to. come here to risk his title.
However, Dave Sands who seems sure
to become more proficient over the next three
or four years —is set on fighting for a world
championship here or in America, or anywhere.


DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V. DOBGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
PROTECTING ,
your beneficiaries
|\ /TANY a man who showed shrewdness, effi-
ciency and wisdom in the building up of
his estate nas "slipped” in the provisions made
for the management of his Estate after his death.
The wise man must be utterly, even brutally,
frank with himself. Impartially, without fear
or favour, he must envisage the control of his
Estate, when his guiding hand has been with-
drawn.
By the appointment of Perpetual Trustee
Company as Executor, in conjunction with a
friend if he so desires, he ensures for his family
the advantages of the Company’s sixty years’
experience in the management of Estates of
every kind: he has made complete provision
against human frailties and idiosyncrasies.
Call or write for a copy of the Company’s book-
let “Your Executor and Trustee” which others have
found so helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST VXD AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERiGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Biverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tam worth.
Western District Representative: J. L>. McElroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKhOIS $
OSIHJ.3VAX
i A, pwtro.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Bad Times in Britain
Britain’s economic crisis, brought be-
fore the world with grim bluntness dur-
ing the last couple of weeks, has been
developing for months past, and it has
been plain to close Observers that a show-
down was bound to occur before long.
The surprising thing is that the Attlee
Government did not draw attention to
the gravity of the situation well before
this. It was inevitable that continued
debits in external trade and deficiencies
in home production would ultimately re-
veal themselves as a “pincers grip” on
the economic life of the nation ; but the
politics of the thing probably prevented
a frank facing of facts earlier.
The hardships in Britain now arise
largely from the dependency of the
country upon overseas food and raw
materials; from the difficulty of getting
manufacturing production back to its
pre-war per capita level, thus bringing a
deficiency of exports with which to pay
for imports ; from undernourishment of
the people setting the country off to a
bad post-war start; from war-time de-
struction, dislocation and confusion;
from the foolish socialistic Attlee-
Laski experimentalism at a time when
hard work was the essential need of the
nation; from the inherently difficult fuel
and power problem; from a heavy accu-
mulation of external war debt and a de-
pletion of overseas investments ; and from
the inadequate financial consideration
given John Bull by Uncle Sam in the
early part of the war and when lend-
lease finished after the war.
The position is serious enough to have
prompted U.S. Secretary of State Marshall
to agree to a reconsideration of the terms
of the loan to Britain. There is no doubt
about it: there rests on the shoulders of
the United States a great economic re-
sponsibility towards Britain —to the
Britain which was in the war for two
years before America came in, and which
bore by far the heaviest burden and
suffered the greatest proportionate loss
of manpower and physical resources
among all the English-speaking demo-
cracies. But it is quite reasonable for
the United States to ask that whatever
aid it renders to Britain be put to its best
commonsense use, and until the Attlee
Government was brought to reason by
actual hardship and economic despera-
tion the time may not have been oppor-
tune for Washington to move. That
section of British Labor-unionism which
is wedded to socialism or Communism
has to come round to a rational, national
way of thinking also, otherwise the Gov-
ernment will be handicapped from the
start in its efforts at economic rehabili-
tation.
The struggle for existence in Britain
is not one that is particularly connected
with the internal earning of money. There-
is more money earned by wage-earners
in fewer/hours than was ever the case
in years gone by, even to the point of
serious inflation. There is a great short-
age of manpower, made more acute by
the need to maintain armed forces on a
larger scale than is usually the case in
peace-time, and this labor situation is
such as to encourage wage-earners to
pick and choose when finding themselves
jobs, with the result that coalmining is
becoming a neglected occupation, and,
with a shorter working week operating,
the production of coal has remained far
below essential requirements. Australian
cities, except during strikes, have not
seen such drastic fuel-saying expedients
as are now common in Britain every
day of the month.
The coal problem, from which spring
the fuel and power problems, is of far
"But would they know what ‘ insert ’ means ?”
greater importance than many people
realise even in Britain. There is a ten-
dency for those who can get power to con-
sider it as a rather unimportant item in
their costs. But if the total amount of
power costs entering into their freight
charges, their costs of erecting or acquir-
ing plant, and buildings, etc., were fully
realised, the economic impact of expen-
sive coal would be more fully under-
stood. As it is, a more general appreci-
ation of the effect of inadequate as op-
posed to expensive coal supplies is now —
through paralysing scarcity —being forced
upon all productive sections of the com-
munity.
The position would be clarified a great
deal, however, if some economic geologist
were to report competently upon the
potential coal and water-power resources
of the British Isles and give the people
some indication as to whether this power
problem is insurmountable. Britain rose
to its industrial peak on cheap coal and
an industrial revolution, and, as a proces-
sor of largely imported raw materials, the
importance of coal and other power, in-
cluding manpower, resources, should be
becoming increasingly obvious to every-
one. Britain is plainly in great economic
difficulty at the present time, and one
of the best things that could be done on
the administrative side would be for the
nation to be presented with a national
stocktaking return, physical resources
shown with financial, and a copy of same
passed on to the Empire and Britain’s
recent ally—the United States.
For in its physical and financial re-
sources, plus its manpower and brain-
power, lie Britain’s hope of recovery.
The outward manifestation of trouble at
present in Britain is inadequate produc-
tion. “Work or want” posters are scat-
tered far and wide. But as a combina-
tion of a number of factors, included in
which are the lack of productive energy
resulting from poor and inadequate food,
shortage of manpower resulting from
Service demands, the almost wanton folly
of the Attlee Government in bringing in
partial socialism and encouraging “easy-
living” ideas to begin with, and the in-
evitable aftermath of an intense war
effort, Britain’s post-war production has
not risen to anything like the level that
its war output suggested might be the
case. Consequently the internal living
standard and the export surplus have
fallen below earlier expectations, and the
dollar credit in the United States is
rapidly being exhausted, partly, it is true,
because of the rise in prices in the United
States and elsewhere.
The loan terms imposed restrictions
upon Britain in its overseas trading activi-
ties that brought harsh and unintended
disabilities, and these boomeranged
against even the American interests they
were supposed to protect. The United
States political machine is clumsy and
swayed palpably by sectional interests,
and it undoubtedly made a mess of the
termination of lend-lease and the sub-
stitution of unrealistic “loan” schemes.
For its own good the United States
had best realise now that Britain is in
a bad way and render generously the
help that is needed and which America
can comparatively easily afford. But in
order that such help shall not be dissi-
pated the Government of Great Britain,
whether it is to remain led by Attlee or
by someone else of the same or different
political color, will have to guarantee
that help will not be used as a subsidy to
socialistic futility, as well as offer the
nation leadership of a quality that has not
been apparent since the war in Europe
ended, and rally the working population
in a great effort of production equal to
the demands of the occasion. Australia
can do a great deal to help in that effort
by making its best endeavors to put work-
ing Britons back on to a diet that is
nourishing and energy-providing —in
other words, by greatly increasing the
supply of food to Britain. If the average
Australian wharfie or coalminer were
asked to live on the British food ration
he wouldn’t go on strike: he’d suffer a
paralytic stroke.
Without owning up to the real extent
of losses, Mr. Chifley admits that deficits
from Government coastal shipping opera-
tions during the war have had to be met
out of taxpayers’ contributions. From
August 18 inter-State and some intra-
state vessels will be handed back to their
owners —they were requisitioned from
time to time during the war —and it is
anticipated that freight rates will have
to be raised so as to bring in an extra
£2 million a year. Even so, some types
of freight are to be subsidised by the
“Government” (/.<?., by the taxpayer), and
what profit the shipping companies will be
able to show with costs inflated as they
are has yet te be revealed. The cause of
the trouble in Australian shipping econo-
mics has been the growth of militant
union strength during war-time Govern-
ment “control,” the shortening of the
working week by Government decree,
the continuance of “war”-risk bonuses
even with the war ended for two years,
the refusal of wharfies to do a decent
job even on present inflated pay, and
the general rise in fuel and other operat-
ing costs. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s annual losses ovfer the past three
years seem to have been at least equal to
the yearly rise in freights deemed neces-
sary now.
* * * *
The New Zealand Government is to
withdraw or reduce subsidies on many
food and service costs, and to allow the
cost of living in the Dominion to emerge
to view at nearer its true figure. Sub-
sidies, however, will continue on bread,
flour, milk, eggs, butter and coal.
* * * *
Britain’s exchange and production dif-
ficulties will no doubt revive in Australia
the question of a change in the exchange
rate between this country and Britain.
Living costs in Britain, already high
generally, are not likely to be reduced
by recent developments; and living costs
are one of the factors determining a
natural exchange rate. But Australians
pondering this question must remember
that natural exchange rates are not very
evident anywhere in the world today
owing to the arbitrary controls arranged
between countries, and, more recently,
by the International Monetary Fund.
These controls are enforced with the best
intentions, even if not with the most
satisfactory results. It is no longer a
matter to be decided by Britain and Aus-
tralia as to whether the London-Australia
rate shall return to par; except within
narrow limits, no individual action in this
direction is now permitted. In Britain’s
present deficiency of food and essential
raw materials a depreciation of the
£ sterling either in terms of the £ Aus-
tralian or the dollar would add further
inflation to British living costs; and this
adds further weight to the political as
well as the economic argument against
altering the international or inter-
Dominion value of the £ sterling.
♦ * * *
Bank of N. S. Wales £2O shares were
offering at £37 2s. 6d. last week, which
was only about £2 a share above their
revealed net tangible asset value. The
last dividend was at the rate of 6i p.c.;
and this, if continued, would show a
yield of 3.5 p.c. at the present market.
Even if the loss of Government and local-
Government accounts temporarily affects
earning power the long-term promise of
’Wales shares is extreme capital stability
and reasonable, if not brilliant, returns.


HARTS
Circular Charts J« oil type* of
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Go* our quotation
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
BRISBANE, 010.
mm
W~''
fV<
■
f I
* ■
OVERPROPP
FESQ CASSON & CO PTY. LTD EST. 1848 m
w?
iv
MY
v;
vft
T«
MERE 5
Twins at home, Triplets, too,
The last instalment’s fresh and new;
But all the lot have got the ’flu (the coughing is
tremendous)
Go fly at once to chemist’s store
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cure implore
It cured the blooming lot before; its virtues are
stupendous. -
Share Premiums Again
Mr Chifley has decreed that m future
the Capital Issues Committee will require
new share issues for cash to bejnade at
a premium where there is an appreci-
able” difference between the par value
and market price of the co.’s shares. In
October last he said premiums on new
shares would not necessarily be insisted
upon. Neither statement makes plain
the principle underlying the policy of the
committee, and that is what is perplex-
ing investors and co. directors alike.
The Treasury gets no rake-off,, directly
or indirectly, from the issue of shares at
a premium, nor is any economic purpose
worth mentioning served by the practice.
The Prime Minister has no sound and
adequate financial, economic or social
reasons to support his action in setting
up the Treasury as dictator to boards of
directors and their skilled advisers con-
cerning the terms on which new shares
should be issued. It is difficult to escape
the conclusion that he is discriminating
against shareholders as a class by mixing
quasi-socialistic ideas with domestic co.
finance.
Genuine differences of opinion exist
concerning the merits of issuing shares
at a premium, as was pointed out in these
columns on 14/5/’47. But what was
good practice in the past is not neces-
sarily so under the altered conditions of
today. In any case, the question is one
of domestic policy which could be well
left to the discretion of the directors in
exercise of the powers delegated to them
by shareholders as owners.
So far as effective usage is concerned,
there is no difference between capital in-
jected into an undertaking in the form of
shares and capital representing premiums
on shares. And shareholders are entitled
in proportion to the par value of their
holdings to participate in the prosperity
of their own undertaking by getting the
full value of the rights to any new issue.
Many, therefore, fail to see the virtue of
charging the owners of a business a
premium on money put up by them to
finance expansion of their own under-
taking.
The higher the rate of premium charged
the more unreal, and therefore mislead-
ing, becomes the nominal or declared rate
of dividend. The actual return on shares
taken up at a premium of 100 p.c. would
be only half the declared rate of divi-
dends. For this reason many doubt the
wisdom of creating a false impression of
this kind at a time when capital is under
increasing fire from the Left,
How go-slow on the waterfront is
damaging Australian prosperity by bump-
ing up the cost of everything and white-
anting the standard of living was spot-
lighted by the chairman of the big Bums
Philp Co. in his recent address to share-
holders. He pointed out that the co.
was now handling in Australia per hour
per gang per hatch only one-third to
one-half the same type of cargo as in
1939. One of the co.’s vessels, which
pre-war took a little over 60 days on the
Sydney-Eastern ; run, recently occupied
153 days, calling at the same ports but
extending to Penang instead of Java —
truly a reminder of the old sailing-ship
days. This sort of thing is a great handi-
cap to Australia, which has a large inter-
state and overseas trade. Freights natur-
ally rise to pay for the slow handling
and delays, and this increases the cost
of living and decreases the net return to
the primary producer, because a higher
proportion of the proceeds of his pro-
duce goes in increased freight. Since
most of our exports go forward in other
than Australian-owned vessels, high over-
seas freights are a direct loss to Australia.
* * * *
In a recent review of foreign exchanges
Samuel Montague and Co., the London
bullion merchants, point out that sterling
freely convertible after July 15 last will
apply to current transactions only. The
International Monetary Fund has defined
current sterling as payments for current
transactions which are not for the pur-
pose of capital transfers, and include
without limitation: (1) all payments due
in connection with foreign trade, and
other current business, including services
and normal short-term banking and credit
facilities; (2) payments due as interest
on loans and as net income from other
investments; (3) payments of moderate
amounts for amortisation of loans, or for
depreciation of direct investments; (4)
moderate remittances for family living
expenses. The British Treasury has made
“transferrable account” arrangements
with Argentina, the Belgian monetary
area, Canada and Newfoundland, Dutch
and Portuguese monetary areas, Italy and
Vatican City and Brazil. No decision has
yet been taken with India and Egypt, the
two largest holders of sterling.
* * * *
Wealth from wool is the key to Maori-
land’s buoyant export trade, which
reached a peak of £103,797,000 for the
twelvemonth to end March, or nearly
£15,000,000 more than for the previous
year. Dairy produce and meat have been
relegated to second and third places as a
record wool cheque of over £28,000,000
more than doubled pastoralists’ incomes.
Like Australia, the Dominion has been
lifted on a flood tide of prosperity by
hungry wool markets, and confidence is
high as the world’s textile manufacture
forges ahead. Imports into M.L. have
soared, too; the total to the end March
was up £24,807,000 at £81,795,000. As in
exports, higher prices have been the main
factor in boosting import figures.
Finance Minister Walter Nash claims that
availability of goods, rather than import
licensing, is now setting the limit to im-
ports. If he’s right, the Government
blundered in keeping imports throttled
too long while M.L. built up bulging ex-
change funds in London.
PRESTIGE, LIMITED
ANNUAL MEETING. 30/7/’47
ADDRESS BY CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS
Remove Controls, Recommends Company Chairman
After enlarging on the Directors’
Report and drawing shareholders’ atten-
tion to the fact that raw silk stocks at
high prices rather than larger physical
stocks were responsible mainly for the
increase in stock figures, and after further
drawing attention to the serious shortage
of rayon yarns, Mr. Foletta said:
“Another matter to which I should
like to draw shareholders’ attention is
that, although there was a marked in-
crease in financial turnover, there was by
no means a comparable increase in the
physical turnover. In other words, as
far as this Company’s operations are
concerned (and I am afraid there are
many Companies whose figures will show
the same tendency), the Company has
paid more for raw materials, wages and
services, but it has contributed nothing
to a higher standard of living; rather
would its figures indicate that the standard
of living is deteriorating. Unfortunately
this is a phasb of your business that your
Directors can do little about. Indications
are that the position will grow steadily
worse until the Government learns that
its Prices Stabilisation policy is reducing
both production and quality of merchan-
dise and therefore lowering the standard
of living, and that it will continue to
lower the standard of living until the
Government scraps subsidies and allows
prices to be equated to the cost of pro-
duction. To put it plainly, our present
economy is dishonest —it supplies people
with money which, because goods are not
available, cannot be exchanged for
human requirements. This is the chief
cause of absenteeism and labor unrest.
People work not so much for money as
for what money should buy. Beyond
pure essentials, many of which are also
rationed, what can money buy today?
People will work hard and willingly to
realise their ambitions; that is, to obtain
the things they want and a better
standard of living, but few (particularly
young people) will work for the doubtful
joy of saving. There is a mistaken idea
that people with money are well off, and
those without it are poor, but think of
this example : Who is the better off the
returned soldier and his bride with some
hundreds of pounds with which they can
buy neither house nor home, or the lucky
couple who, though made penniless by
the operation, have been fortunate
enough to acquire both. No, money is
not wealth —it is our possessions that
make us wealthy and the goods that we
can buy are our standard of living.
That brings me back to where I started
—by subsidy and prices control we are
deceiving ourselves. We are helping to
create for our people surplus savings
which we cannot honor with goods.
Through the consequent frustration we
are robbing our people of all incentive.
We are doing all this simply because we
have come to believe in a theory called
“Prices Control.” It worked very success-
fully during the war, but only with the
help of its brother-controls, Wages and
Manpower. Today we only believe we
are controlling prices ; in spite of our
theory they are rising steadily, so we are
attempting to control profits and doing it
with some little success in the case of
efficient companies while bolstering up
the inefficient but, indirectly through
these controls, we are successfully keep-
ing our markets short-supplied, so in-
dustry goes merrily along making easy
profits through lack of competition. Not
only have we killed the workers’ incen-
tive, but we have dampened industry’s.
We may be controlling individual profits
but in the total it is doubtful if the public
ever paid industry a greater profit and,
when to that profit is added an even
greater amount that is taken from in-
dustry by the tax collector, it will be
found that the public is paying an in-
ordinate amount to both industry and the
tax collector for very inefficient service.
Our economy is becoming totally un-
balanced —we are running around in
circles, but we are not increasing produc-
tion in line with our increases in currency,
and prices therefore are steadily rising.
Although the average working man
does not know exactly what is wrong, he
knows that his standard of living is fall-
ing steadily, hence the continued unrest
and demands for increased pay. He can
purchase few things that he wants and
soon acquires a feeling of frustration —
his frustration causes lethargy—lethargy
brings indolence —his incentive is killed —
and so we get our demands for a shorter
working week, yet both the industrialists
and the Government blame the worker.
It may seem strange that I should take
sides with the working man but, though
we may have varied opinions as to the
real cause, the truth about our present
economy is that the working man is the
hardest pressed through a steady decline
in his standard of living. Industrialists
and employers generally are well pro-
tected by a grossly undersupplied market
—this so assures profits that even the
most inefficient thrive. With the help of
these high industrial profits, and the Gov-
ernment’s multiple methods of taxation
both direct and indirect, Government
finances have boomed to a point where
there are considerable surpluses even after
finding employment, so I am told, in
Governmental services for one out of
every four workers (the great majority
of whom are unproductive). How, I ask
you, with all those overheads plus the
attendant industrial unrest, can the
standard of living be maintained, much
less improved. No, under such a system,
do what we may, prices must rise and
no matter how much we increase wages
thby can never catch up with the cost
of living.
As a people we abhor “isms”—Com-
munism, Fascism, or any other “ism,’
yet strangely we harbor in our economy
all those controls which lead to “isms.
Unless we can settle our industrial unrest
with greater production and a better
standard of living, that growing unrest
must bring still more industrial upheavals.
Let us have a prolonged and paralysing
strike of big essential utilities and as a
nation we will have no option but to
allow our bureaucrats to reintroduce
Manpower and Wages Control, then we
who love Democracy are again slaves
and well on our way towards one of those
“isms.”
I may be a Chairman of Directors, but
I am also a worker and I appeal to all
workers and producers alike: Do not
let our Governments, whatever their
political creed, fool us into believing that
bureaucracy and control ever produced
anything. Prices control is a very com-
forting ideal, but today it is only an
ideal. Prices can be controlled only by
full production and healthy competition.
What Australia wants most today is a
little over-production, and not until we
get it can we hope to control successfully
either prices or profits. We can never
get full production until the Government
scraps these theoretical, unnatural and
oft-times unworkable controls, reduces
its unproductive expenditure, discon-
tinues this subsidised economy and allows
prices to be equated to the cost of pro-
duction, and not until Australia gets full
production and its attendant competition
can she in pure fact reduce prices or im-
prove her standard of living.”
After referring to the progress of the
subsidiary companies, Prestige Fabrics,
Limited, and Dyecraft, Limited, Mr.
Foletta closed his remarks with thanks to
the Board, management, staff and em-
ployees for their loyal support.
Mr. L, S. Gough, General Manager,
said:
“We have, during the year, returned to
the production of fine silk hosiery and
our good name has been further strength-
ened by the excellence of our products
which are freely acknowledged to be the
best goods offering on this market. We
are now commencing to manufacture
these longed-for Nylon stockings and the
Nylon stockings we shall offer to our
customers before the end of the year
will be an outstanding product, equal in
every way to the best Nylons manufac-
tured anywhere yi the world.
In our Underwear mill much the same
story can be told. Our Lingerie, which
is of outstanding quality, is now being
manufactured in four factories —Mel-
bourne, Horsham, Ararat and Lang Lang
—each factory specialising on a definite
type of product. This specialisation is
now rewarding us with greater efficiency
in production both in quality and quan-
tity. One unforeseen iresult of the high
quality and popularity of our products
in both Hosiery and Lingerie is that they
are so sought after by the public that
they are seldom displayed in retail stores
today because insufficient of our goods
are available to satisfy the demand. To-
day the customer wants Prestige goods
and takes other products only if Prestige
are not available.
We are now planning an increase in
Hosiery and Lingerie production, but
new machinery ordered several years
ago has not yet been shipped and a sub-
stantial increase in the flow of goods to
our clients is not anticipated in this
financial year.
I would like to add to our Chairman s
remarks my own thanks to our Managers
and staff for their continued loyalty to
the company and for the fine work they
have done throughout the year, and 1
think we can share with them their pride
in a year’s work well done.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mug”: Sid hails from the fattening
country, and he hadn’t been working for
Angus very long when he began to
encourage an admiration of fats in the
old bloke’s mind. “What’s) more, y’re
losin’ money, keepin’ animals with poor
constitutions,” Sid would point out.
“Don’t y’ see, they’re eatin’ the same
value in feed, an’ not puttin’ it inta meat
for y’. Look at some o’ them ugly little
runts!” Old Angus looked, and pon-
dered. Soon he began selling off
animals that failed to respond to good
feeding. Sheep, cows, horses and pigs
were all culled out; then, pride in his
stock growing, the ancient started in
on the poultry and the house cats. No
animal whose condition fell short of his
new high - standard was allowed to re-
main, and the place took on a prosperous
appearance. “Diff’rent now, ain’t she?”
grinned Sid, as the old bloke ran an
approving eye over his possessions one
day. “Hardly a bad doer left on the
place.” “Y-yair,” murmured old Angus,
thoughtfully rubbing his chin. “Yair,
hardly.” Anyone give Sid a job? He is
tall and stringy and eight stone ten.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: One of the savagest
birds in captivity is that egg-robber and
pirate among sea birds the Pacific gull.
Years ago a resident of Flinders Island,
Bass Strait, reared a young one on
porridge merely to prove that the drab,
motley brown young flier known to
straitsmen. as a “mollyhawk” was one
and the same bird as the snowy-white
but black-backed and -winged Pacific
gull. He had to wait three years to find
out, and in the meantime the pet varied
his diet by getting outside clutches of
chickens and ducklings, devouring fowls
and quail, and varying the procedure by
attacking dogs, cats, visitors and every-
thing about the place except his master.
Only the extraordinarily deep affection
the feathered pet expressed for his
owner —he followed him about the home-
stead —saved the giant gull’s life.
* * * »
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Well, by crikey,”
ejaculated Ted, lowering his paper, “if
that don’t beat Gallagher! Here I see
old Joe McCorker—you blokes remem-
ber him—struck a nugget worth a few
hundred quid.” “That wouldn’t be Old
Joe,” said Mick, “He was never that
much of a fossicker, anyway. It must be
Young Joe.” “It couldn’t be Young
Joe,” Ted shot back. “It gives
his full name here —Joseph Sebastian
McCorker. Young Joe’s name didn’t
have no Sebastian in it,” “It can’t be
Old Joe,” cut in Jim. “He’s gettin’ on a
bit now; must be old enough to be a
grandfather.” “Yair, by cripes,” Bill
joined in, “He could be a grandfather.
I seem t’ remember Young Joe gettin’
married after the old bloke left here,”
“That’s right,” Jim said thoughtfully.
“An’ I heard he had a son an’ called
him Sebastian after the old man. Now,
this’ll most likely be Young Joe’s son.”
“Yairs,” Ted agreed. “Young Joe was
gettin’ on when he got spliced, too.”
“Well, now,” Bill voiced the others’
thoughts, “fancy Old Joe’s grandson
findin’ a nugget!” “Anyway,” Ted glared
at Jim before returning to his paper, “I
knew it couldn’t be Young Joe. W’y,
Young Joe must be seventy if he’s a
day!”
• * ♦ *
“M 8”; This is written in some disgust
after watching a talkie short which
claimed that members of the snake
tribe were the most feared of all living
things. To illustrate the point an ancient,
decrepit, half-starved and apparently
toothless tiger is turned loose to be the
victim of a huge python. After watch-
ing the poor old tiger being slowly
crushed and noting that its bites appeared
to have no effect on the snake, though
a strong tiger can snap a bullock’s neck
with one bite, I left still convinced that
I’d sooner face a snake than a lot of
animals I could name.
* * * *
“Kandoo”: Obviously poet F. John
Blight (B. 9/7/’47) has not heard the
story of Mudjimba, which is the native
name for “Old Woman’s Island”—note
the possessive case. As a boy I lived in
the district near the island when the abo,
population was considerable. The old
men told us the legend of Mudjimba.
Long ago Mount Ninderi, a wry-necked
mountain some 20 miles to the north,
“I'm going to send it to Britain!"
had a fight with domed-headed Mount
Coolum, which rose up just back from
the beach. A large junk was knocked
off Coolum into the sea and formed
Mudjimba Island. In support of this the
blacks would point out the gap in Coo-
lum’s side. Further, they said there
were three gins (always holding up three
fingers) on the fragment of Coolum.
These went out to sea and remained
there. At certain tides the heaving sea
behind the island gives an appearance
of movement to the three pointed rocks,
and the abos, would excitedly call our
attention to “old woman’s walkabout.”
The abos. believed that the ghosts of the
three old gins would always haunt the
island, and no native would willingly
land on Mudjimba.
* * * *
“O’Yen”: Norfolk Island expressions
(B. 16/7/’47) are still fairly widely used,
though they are not so common as here-
tofore. More noticeable are the every-
day “what-a-way-you?” (how are you?),
“cushoo” (well, thanks), “bout you
given?” (where you going?), “you can
mos-a-do” (you can’t do) and the queer
“dars-et” (that’s it). The dialect is an
admixture of west-country English and
Tahitian,
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Some skunks are
being consigned to Australian zoos, and
that is the right and only place for them.
A visit to the Pilcomayo (South America)
reversed my long-standing belief that the
skunk was an inoffensive little cuss,
apart from his disgusting habit of spray-
ing everything in his immediate vicinity
witn the worst and most enduring odor
on this planet. Under certain conditions
he becomes a deadly menace to any
animal that comesi within reach of his
fangs. He is peculiarly susceptible to
hydrophobia, and when he emerges wide-
eyed and foam-flecked from the high
reedy grass and starts running amok
through a Pilcomayan “toldoria” he
causes more consternation and confusion
than a shoal of rattlesnakes. At the first
alarm the badly-scared Indian uses his
pigeon-toed feet for the nearest tree,
where he remains until he judges that
the invasion has petered out. Then he
climbs down from his perch and, after
clubbing any of his hairless dogs that
show signs of conflict with the mephitic
intruder, returns to the solace of the
communal “aloja” jar and his siesta in
the shade of the sheltering palm,
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: In a discussion on egg
problems Minister Pollard revealed that
he had a pathological horror of fowls,
although he is a farmer. Shuddering
slightly he declared: “I hate chooks and
anything to do with them, and as long
as I can remember I have hated them.”
Associational prejudices of this sort are
quite common. A rehabilitation officer
in Melbourne had an inquiry from an
ex-soldier from overseas anxious to settle
on the land and suggested sheep-farm-
ing. “I don’t like sheep,” said the in-
quirer. “Why not?” asked the official.
“They’re too —they’re too woolly.”
* * * *
“Wire-buster”: He came into the
chemist’s while I was waiting for a pre-
scription: a tall, lanky man with a
countryman’s hat on his head. He
gave his orders—a whole list of
them —to the assistant, jotting the
prices down on a bit of paper.
As he gathered up his purchases the
assistant remarked, “Stocking up for a
rainy day?” “Oh, no, mate; it isn’t
that,” he explained. “But we’re down
from the country for a couple of months.
Got a flat in that big block down the
street there, and the missus just can’t
get it out of her head that every time
I go up the street I ought to call on
everyone in the building to see if they
want anything.”
* * * *
*C.C": The word “brumby” was not
derived from Brummagem (B. 9/7/’47),
It comes from Captain (or Major)
Brumby, who had a reputation as a
horsebreeder in the early part of last
century. In Tasmania he had a property
near the Lake River—there is a Brumby
Creek named after him —and some of
the family still reside in the Longford
district. Brumby had interests in N.S.W.
also. When some of his horses got out
and went wild, strangers, seeing the good-
looking untamed animals and asking
whom they belonged to, would be told
laconically “They’re Brumby’s.” The
other —and less-likely—origin is the abo.
word booramby.
# * * *
“Flight”: I’ve read repeatedly how
Willy Wagtail festoons its nest and binds
it with spiders’ webs. Though I’ve
watched many nests being built I’ve
never seen a bird carry web to the nest.
But I have noted the bird repeatedly dab
its breast, forage there in the manner of
a duck getting oil from the gland near its
tail, and then preen the new hair in the
nest as the duck preens her feathers. I’ve
examined the nest after Willy has gone
and found each new hair glued in place
by stuff that looks as if it had been spun
by spiders. My theory: they draw some
glutinous stuff from a gland on their
breast; when spread it hardens to a
semblance of cobweb.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were in an Unley
tram out of Adelaide one day when Mat
let out a yelp, rubbed his shin and glared
blue murder at a small boy who grinned
cheekily up at him. The mother smiled
indulgently at the kid and murmured
something about not “being naughty.”
Then she turned and went on chatting
to her neighbor. The kid sidled round
behind Mat and pinched him in the back
of the neck, laughing delightedly. Mat
looked at the mother, who was still chat-
ting ; then he fished in his pocket, opened
up his big clasp-knife, tapped the woman
on the shoulder and, putting on a feroci-
ous expression, said, “Look, I’m just
out of a mental home, missus. Had a
breakdown. Nilly slaughtered a
kid who” The woman’s eyes widened,
darkened and she toppled off the seat
in a dead faint. The tram stopped and
Mat fairly hurled me into the road.
“You an’ your ruddy jokes,” I gasped, as
we fled. “Want t’ get us six months?”
Later, as we cooled down in a pub, he
said thoughtfully, “Blasted wimmen. No
matter how y’ come at ’em they put it
over y’!” “Gripes,” I said, “whadda y’
expect, flashin’ knives at ’em!” “Knives
me foot,” he snorted. “That was a girl
I nilly got married t’ when I was young
an’ silly.” The incident occurred a
month before his 27th birthday.
“Wigwag”: Notoriously tightfisted, old
Bachelor was tightest of all when it came
to swaggies, so I could scarcely believe it
when he said to two of them “ ’ Course
y’ can get a feed! Just go up to the house
and tell me little girl I sent yV’ He cut
short the beginning of their mumbled
• thanks with “She’ll be pleased to see y’.
Ever since her engagement’s been called
off she’s been takin’ a great interest in
social welfare.” The swags eyed each
other for a moment. “C’mon,” said the
bigger of them briefly, and the two of
them walked towards the road gate.
Bachelor indicated the big fellow with his
pipe stem. “Been readin’ in The Bulle-
teen about that feller,” he said. “Name
of Mat. Only way t’ git rid of him is
mention a woman. Gripes, by the pace
he’s puttin’ on now you’d think a
Designin’ Female was waitin’ behind a
hopbush scrub with a grapplin’ iron.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Dan’s place is fringed by bush-
land, and the opening in the back fence
is usually closed in a fashion of his own
with a pair of harrows, several long
rails and a tangle of barbed-wire. This
deters people from taking the short cut
to the camping grounds and a good
stretch of water for fishing higher up;
the popular track, which Dan uses him-
self on occasions, is through Flannery’s.
“But it’s a couple of miles further that
way, Dan,” I chipped him. “Wouldn’t
it pay y’ t’ have a gate y’ could open?”
“No, it wouldn’t,” Dan said. “Y’ oughter
hear Flannery grizzlin’ about the way
people leave his gates open. I’m lucky
enough t’ have invented a gate that
people leave shut.”
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: The boss was a mixture
of anger and reproach. “Look here,
Jack,” he growled. “You took your
solemn oath t’ keep off the booze except
on Saturdees an’ I trusted you. I leave
the job this mornin’, an’ you’re sawin’
an’ hammerin’ away like a good ’un. I
don’t get back till this afternoon an’ here
you are, drunk as Chloe. I reckoned I
could trust you. Jack.” Jack hung his
head, then raised it and declared* “It
was that flamin’ door! If it hadn’t been
for that door!” The boss looked at the
door, then at Jack. “Well,” said Jack,
indignantly defensive, “y’ told me t’ go
down t’ Pike’s joinery an’ get that door
an’ hang it, didn’t y’? Well, down Igo
an’ I have t’ wait a bit till Pike planes
off one side a bit. Then I start back.
There’s a nor’-wester blowin’ in an’ it
hits that door an’ carries me an’ the
door across the street an’ up against that
barber’s shop of Tait’s. Well, I wrestle
the thing an’ get goin’ again an’ I’m nilly
here, bangin’ on to that flamin’ door,
when a big gust comes an’ pulls me
smack into that girl in the C.B.A. bank,
who’s goin’ down for the mail, an’ over
we go into the dust. The bank girl went
dead crook on me, too. Well, I get
goin’ again an’ I’m just roundin’ the
corner when another gust hits that ruddy
door an’ sweeps me an’ it clean across
the road an’ into the main passage at the
Commercial. Well, be this time I’m
nilly dumped for wind, so I reckon I’ll
take just a quickie an’ have another go
to get that flamin’ door home. An’—
an’—well, there was a few blokes there
an’ course I had t’ tell ’em about it an’
—an’ —well, it was that flamin’ door,
see?” The boss saw.
* * * *
/‘Traymon”: As the streamlined 1947
saloon sped into the distance Ben spoke
contemptuously: “All they think about
now is show! A new car an’ no runnin’-
boards. Twenty years ago I bought an
old T Ford an’ it had big runnin’-boards
with brass edges. First Sunday I had it
I took the missus an’ kids out fer a pic-
nic. All I had to do was to push the top
o’ the bottle against the edge o’ the
runnin’-board, give it a slap with me
fist an’ you couldn’t have done a neater
job with a bottle-opener. How could
you enjoy a bush picnic in one o’ these
noo jobs, I ask y’?”
INSPIRATION.
I crossed the Mississippi; adown the Murray
went,
And dwelt beside the Clarence; but ne’er those
rivers Jent
My thought the inspiration I drew from one
clear rill
That, first a cold spring gushing below a
granite hill,
Meandered through a meadow, o’er sand and
pebbles purled,
And glided past the rushes, in boyhood’s
wonderworld.
Across the marshy meadow a mottled wood
duck flew,
And, hidden ’neath a willow where watercresses
grew, i
I saw the biown wrens bathing and heard the
honey-birds
And longed—a child of Nature —for splendid
rhythmic words
To voice the joy of living, express the beauty
rare
That had my soul uplifted to empyrean air.
The scholar walks with knowledge—good books
are good to read —
But does his path the scholar to soul-content-
ment lead?
I’d leave-a learned Einstein to compass Space
and Time,
And look on running water —if I could speak
in rhyme
Its message and its meaning, perchance I would
unbar „
The door that guards who knoweth? the
Secret of the Star.
Yea, I have been a dreamer. The current of
my dream
Was sourced in sunlit mountains a little
mountain stream.
Beneath the waving willow, where golden
gudgeons cast
Dim shadows underneath them as white clouds
drifted past,
There came to me a vision... For that through
all my days
In gratitude, in homage, what gods may be
1 praise.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Bo”: Like most Australians who live
where the horizons are far, old Harry
Carney regarded his hat almost as part
of himself. He worked, ate, washed
himself and, so the hand at his farm
said, slept with it on, and the fact that
he so rarely attended either the barber’s
or church was ascribed to the necessity
for removing his lid. After days of
torrential rain the creek running
through Harry’s low-lying property
roared down a banker, and soon half his
land was under water. Three neighbors,
who were better situated, came over to
give him a hand shifting stock to higher
ground. Harry was half-riding, half-
swimming Prince through the swirling
waters trying, to round up two panicky
cows.when his hat was knocked off by
the branch of a small uprooted tree that
was floating by. He immediately plunged
in after it. A poor swimmer, he
just managed to get to the hat,
and hang exhausted to a log caught
between two trees until Weston,
one of his neighbors, rescued him with
a rope. “You’re an ass, Harry, going
after your old hat like that —you might
have been drowned!” growled Weston.
“What have you got—a wad of notes
inside the band, or something?” “Wad
nothin’! ” gasped old Harry. “But,
cripes”—he held up the battered, greasy
old felt —“I bin measurin’ out Prince’s
and Nugget’s chaff with this for fifteen
years or so, an’ I’d be lorst without it I ”
* * ♦ *
“R.P.”: Blue was bringing her home
from the neighbor’s woolshed dance.
The full moon hung magically over the
saltbush and the girl was enthralled with
the seemingly interminable vastness. She
wriggled on the seat and isighed, re-
garded Blue’s profile for a moment,
sighed again, and then murmured
dreamily “Oh Blue! Blue, if we drove
on and on and on,” and her voice trailed
off, “wherfc would we come to?” Blue
lemoved his cigarette, and looked over
"Now, gentlemen, any MORE bids of half a dollar ?”
the rolling silver plains. “Pub,” he said,
and replaced the cigarette.
* * * *
“Aspeddidly”: The bi-focal lens, re-
garded as an invention of modem science,
was really evolved a million years or so
before man started needing glasses. The
“periscope” or “four-eyed” fish found in
the shallow coastal waters of tropical
South America has been using the gadget
probably near that length of time. This
fish’s rather large eyes, set high in the
head, are divided horizontally, the upper
and lower halves having separate lenses.
In calm weather the fish may be seen
swimming in shoals with the upper sec-
tions of their eyes above the surface,
thus getting an undistorted view of what
goes on both above and below the sur-
face. The apparent explanation of the
strange optical equipment is that “Four-
eyes” feeds in the shallow waters of the
coastal mud flats and mangrove swamps,
where its chief enemies are birds and
fish-eating animals; and as there is no
escape to be had by (diving it must
have early warning of approaching
danger. Owing to water having a dif-
ferent refractive index from that of air,
the simultaneous focusing of two separate
pairs of eyes must, however, be rather a
complicated business.
« ♦ ♦ •
“Zake”: Apparently it i.s not an
abundance of green feed alone that satis-
fies horses. I’ve seen mokes chewing in-
dustriously at the bark of trees even
when lush feed was theirs for the crop-
ping, An equine’s inner works seem to
need something of no nutritional value
at times, some “roughage,” to stimulate
the digestive processes. I recall a case,
widely publicised in my youth, of a
British ship taking horses and cattle to
the West Indies. All the fodder haying
been lost in a gale, the animals were given
corn and potatoes, of which there was
an abundance aboard. Despite the high
nutritional value of these, however, the
horses and cattle were slipping back in
condition badly. Then the skipper
noticed a mule gnawing at a spruce spar.
He had the ship’s carpenter plane up
some old spars, and the shavings were
fed to the animals. The few which were
lost on the voyage were the older ones
which wouldn’t include the timber in
their diet.
♦ # * *
“Flip”: One strong contributor to the
hollow mountain of empty “nines” which
grows outside Bombina’s pub on Satur-
day afternoons is Edgar; “the best darned
sleeper-cutter in the State.” At the game
all his life, Edgar can “X-ray” a stand-
ing tree by biffing it with the back of his
axe and locating the knots and hollows
made by the ring of the wood. Only
once has he made a mistake. It left him
with a nearly-completed sleeper contain-
ing a neat hole right through it and a
prospective hole in its ultimate value.
With a prayer that the inspector would
miss it, he carefully shaved down and
tapped a cylindrical “plug” into place.
Later, when he lined up with the others
in the bar to collect his pay, Edgar re-
ceived, with his cheque, the “plug”
neatly tied with blue ribbon. “You
made a beautiful job of it,” declared
the inspector with a grin, “I got a bit
suspicious of that sleeper you’d nearly
buried at the bottom. I hit her with my
hammer, and sure enough she sounded
punk, so I hauled her out. Just fluked
finding your ‘plug.’ Stiff luck, ’cause on
the way in here I found that my hammer
handle had split, which would account
for the crook noise.” They still reckon
Edgar hurled that “plug” 200 yards.
* ♦ * • ♦
“Wippegong”: For casual bird obser-
vation whilst travelling there is no better
means of transport than the bike. It is
quicker and quieter than walking and
less noticeable than the roaring vehicles
we now race around in. Roadside birds
—the babblers', grey jumpers, diamond
sparrows, noisy minahs, peaceful doves
and such take little notice of the
cyclist, and my speed these days allows
time for considerable scrutiny. In
robin country, where the' bonnie wee
scarlet- and flame-breasted beauties like
y | ew tra fg c f rom roadside posts,
~ movemen t between stands allows
become old friends before it occurs
them tQ take a spdL fironzewings
£ ond 0 £ roadSj but are usually well
“Sorry, Sir, I just can't help it — it's the environment."
out of the way before a car or number
tens can get close; on the mangle you’ll
spin round a bend and come right on
them. Perhaps plovers pay the best divi-
dends of all. On horseback or afoot
you’ll be seen from afar and the hen
will turn her back and slip from the
nest long before you’re near it. Yet often
riding along a road I’ve spotted a squat-
ting hen and been able to slow down,
dismount and negotiate the fence with-
out taking the eyes from the spot where
she crouched, and so walk straight to
the superbly camouflaged nest. When
the chicks are out you can spin across
the grassy flats and run the little beggars
down —the only way to get a close look
at them after they’re a few hours old.
The method has occasional drawbacks,
like steering one-handed amongst ruts
while waving your hat wildly as you take
evasive action from an aggressive magpie
which is aware of your blind spots, but
generally the advantages are worth the
risks.
* ♦ ♦ »
“Solitude”: “Gosh, y’ never see so
many parrots as over where I come
from,” the youth babbled to Seventyfiver.
“Aw, I dunno,” the old bloke drawled ;
“there’s quite a few in the homestead
orchard when there’s fruit there.” “Yair,
but over our way they land in the trees
by the dozen,” the other went on. “I’ve
got two in one shot more’n once, I c’n
tell y’, an’ the other day I darned near
got three. Takes a bit o’ heatin’, eh?”
“Three" Seventyfiver sneered. “Six or
seven is what we average, an’ if we used
a bigger bullet, there’d prob’ly be a solid
line.” The kid’s jaw dropped. “Gripes!” he
gasped. “Some shot! What sort o’ sight
d’ y’ take? Fine?” “Sight?” puzzled
Seventyfiver, with a frown. “What’s that
got t’ do with it? Gripes, we jus’ shove
the rifle round in the direction o’ the
orchard an’ let fly!”
* * * •
“Salmon Gums”: These squatters in
possession of my spare room moved in
so silently that they were actually estab-
lished in residence before I was aware
of their presence. From what I’ve seen
of them I don’t like them. He’s a cring-
ing fellow and she’s fat and ugly. I
suppose some credit is due to the chap
for his fidelity to the creature and her
numerous brood, but I’m going to have
him evicted. In some ways, I don t
doubt, he could show me some points in
the maintenance of a home, having, for
one thing, fixed up a heating system de-
signed to maintain an almost unvarying
temperature. I understand that he em-
ploys the heat generated by rotting vege-
tation, distributing it by means of a very
clever ventilation system. It obviously
works, since the state of his wife s health
is such that a rise or fall of a few degrees
would kill her. The Lord knows what
they all live on, unless they’re eating the
furniture. I’m going to clear them out.
But —how do you evict white ants?
* * » •
“Nagheer”: Longreach (Q.) is divided
on the subject of goats. The pros are
led by the magistrate, who maintains that
the maligned animals provide the town
with its only supply of fresh milk since
all local dairy herds were wiped out in
the drought, and that children will suffer
in health if deprived of nanny’s excel-
lent substitute for the cow article. The
antis quote a variety of flagrant goat-
offences ranging from eating car-registra-
tion certificates and clothing-coupon
books to disturbing the Longreach Golf
Club by getting under the clubhouse. A
liberal feed of arsenic on cabbage leaves
only brought the club-disturber back next
day, more active than ever, and a new
fence had to be built to keep it out.
Herds of the pests practise mountain-
eering on parked cars by jumping on to
the bonnet, thence leaping to the roof
and sliding down the back. Most tragic
of all was the case in which a parcel,
just received from Sydney and contain-
ing new stockings of particularly ravish-
ing tint and texture, was grabbed from
the fair owner’s hand as she came down
the post office steps and chewed to rags
before her horrified eyes.
♦ * * *
“C.E.”: The rats and mice around his
ancient hut were fast getting past a joke,
so, after weighty deliberation, Bob pro-
cured himself a cat. To coax her to
settle in he brought home rabbits;
scorning the mice, puss nightly waited at
the hitching stump for the old bloke’s
arrival with her feed. Then the bunnies
where Bob was working grew scarce, his
homecoming was delayed, and finally
came the night when he arrived without
his usual offering. Puss couldn’t believe
it. She followed him round expectantly
for some time before the awful truth
sank home. Then she tightened her pelt
and sat down to eye him in silent re-
proach. Old Bob squirmed. He ex-
plained, apologised and presented every-
thing from a lump of stale damper to a
drink of hot tea. The cat remained sadly
unforgiving. A couple of weeks later
Paddy dropped in from over the creek.
“Not a sign of a rat or mouse in this
place o’ yours now. Bob,” he remarked
“That cat y’ got made a difference, eh?”
“Too right,” nodded the old chap, “It’s
since the bunnies run out. She had t’
eat, o’ course, an’ if it hadn’t been for
her I’d never ’a’ started trappin’ them
mice! ”
♦ * * *
“Mug”: Entering old Charlie’s hut,
Bob was met with a warm draught of
language. “Flamin’ country,” Charlie
snorted. “Flamin’ Gover’ment! Why
can’t they flamin’ well let a flamin’ man
alone anyway? Them an’ their flamin’
sugar rationin’!” “But the rationing ’s
lifted, Chari,” Bob pointed out, “Y’ c’n
get any amount o’ sugar at the store now.”
“I know,” growled the old bloke. “That’s
the flamin’ trouble. First they cut a man
short so he c’n only have one spoonful
in his flamin’ tea, an’ it makes the stuff
taste horrible. Then, just when he’s sort
o’ gets used t’ it, bang orf goes their
flamin’ rationin’, and’ the blasted tea ]s
worse’n ever with two spoonfuls in it
again! ”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Headaches await the
zealot who endeavors to unionise the
simple savage toilers of the Torres Strait
archipelago. In 1934 the crews of the
communal island shelling fleets adopted
sit-down tactics in protest against the
small amount of “cash-money” being dis-
tributed after shell sales. A rising nor’-
west rain squall threatened to spoil
several tons of flour, which had been de-
clared “black” after being unloaded on
an open jetty. As I was under orders to
issue no instructions which might be
considered provocative, I affected dis-
interest in the fate of the flour. To a
man hundreds of strikers rushed to get
it under shelter. As soon as they d
finished they resumed the strike.
THE OLD CREEK-BED.
Oh, dead and long-forgotten the source from
which it fed, , ~ ,
The gullies and the caverns from out of which
it led, , ..
When clear the creek was running and undis-
turbed its bed.
’Tis now a dried-up relic of one-time force and
flood
When sand and gleaming pebbles were some-
times mixed with mud .
And sap from many giants was blended in its
blood.
i
Ah, days when, like a river, ’twould rise and
overflow,
And leap and roar with fury as when the
tempests blow,
Then flood out all the workings and miners
camped below.
A creek now long-forgotten, with mullock
heaps that rest
Where fossickers persistent continued in their
quest
And turned its bed thrice over before they gave
it best.
Long-gone the rippled water and pools of
perfect blue,
With sky and clouds within them, and gone
the pebbles, too.
And sandy banks like opal, with silver running
through;
And gone the sunlight dancing on overhanging
green,
For ever fled the water that used to sing
between
The wet and shining boulders that graced the
sylvan scene.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


(L .
ŵ
ẁ
Safe in his hands..
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique of thj A.M.L & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged. that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con-
fidently at A.M.L. & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
Australian, Mercantile, Land & F
inance
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree. Henty and Hay.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Scabby Mouth.
“J.R.D.”: In sheep and particularly
in lambs it has been a more or less
serious prpblem for years, and recently
shearers refused to handle affected sheep.
It was once contended that the disease
was not transmittable to human beings,
but it has been shown that certain in-
dividuals are susceptible.
Scabby mouth is caused by entrance
of a virus through a break in the skin.
It occurs chiefly in lambs feeding among
thistles—the skin being punctured by the
sharp spikes—and in a very short time
the lips, nose and sometimes the eyes
are covered with scabs. It is highly in-
fectious and soon spreads. Udders of
nursing ewes are liable to infection.
The chief loss is in the condition of
affected animals prevented from feeding.
It may check lambs to such an extent
that they never recover. When a lamb
does recover, however, it is thereafter
immune for life.
Previous treatment was to brush the
scabs off and treat with a bluestone solu-
tion or bluestone ointment. This messy
job has been succeeded by a preventive
vaccine which immunises sheep against
scabby mouth. Simple to administer, the
cost is very small and lambs can be
treated at marking time without the need
of a special muster. It is applied much
in the same way as smallpox vaccination
to humans. The most suitable instru-
ment is a common darning needle with
part of the head ground away or broken
off to leave the two prongs of the eye
remaining. The sharp end is fitted into
a wooden holder, and to vaccinate the
lamb the end of the needle is dipped into
the vaccine, a drop of vaccine is retained
in the eye and the bare skin of the
animal is scratched with the needle.
Most suitable spot on the lamb is the
bare patch on the inside of the thigh.
Two scratches will do, and the process
will add little, if any, delay to the mark-
ing operation. It takes about a couple
of weeks to give full immunity, so vaccina-
tion should not delayed any later than
marking time, and should certainly be
done at least three weeks before shear-
ing. Destroy all scabby-mouth vaccine
containers by burning, and operators
should avoid scratching themselves with
the vaccinating needle. Should this
happen, immediate application of iodine
will kill the vaccine immediately and no
harm should result.
Silage for Sheep.
“Myrrhee”: When calculating the
amount needed for a flock allow one to
\\ tons of silage per day per 1000 head.
Two 35-ton pits would feed that number
21b. to 2ilh. a head per day. Where hay
or grain is available, however, don’t give
this quantity of silage alone. Silage will
keep sheep going for fairly long periods,
but they’ll lose condition if they receive
it as sole diet. A good ration is lib, of
hay and l|lb. of silage per sheep per
day or of silage and 41b. of maize.
Start feeding while the sheep are still
strong; lib. per sheep per day would be
sufficient then, increasing the amount as
paddock feed falls away.
Air Baits for Dingoes.
“Outback”: “Sarina” (B. 16/7/’47)
will not have long to wait for the
Queensland Lands Department “to drop
a great many more baits over outback
areas,” for a major aerial blitz was to
begin by August 11. This will take 81
days and one and a half million baits will
be dropped over some 160 million acres
extending from Noccundra in the far
south-west to Cloncurry in the north-
west, Emerald in the central district and
Roma in the west. It will cover most of
the rough dingo-breeding country be-
tween the cattle and sheep areas of the
State.
Effective action is being taken by
graziers to clean up the dingoes on their
own properties. The shortage of wire-
netting has been a handicap, but more is
now available and group netting schemes
are being considered. The question of
What amount, by way of bonus for scalps,
“A bit easier, Dad—pressure gauge is showin' 'Danger'."
is sufficient to induce all hands to start
an offensive has never been settled.
Two years ago Queensland graziers, for
the first time, were able to agree on a
uniform bonus, which was fixed at 15s.
(previously from ss. to 10s. per scalp
was paid). This has resulted in a con-
siderable increase in the number of scalps
paid for, and optimists think that doub-
ling the bonus would double the number
of dogs caught. Graziers in S.-E. Queens-
land are being asked for their views on
a proposed increase in the bonus to £2,
while a Cloncurry suggestion is for 30s.
McKinlay Shire Council wants an “Aus-
tralian-wide uniform bonus” sufficiently
large to enable men to 'make dogging a
full-time job. Graziers with experience
on the old Dingo Boards are, however,
apprehensive lest dingo-breeding be made
a profitable business, as it was said to be
years ago when a bonus of £1 was paid.
No one experienced in dingo-lore ex-
pected the aerial blitz to clean up the
dingoes, but tackling from the air dog-
breeding country which is inaccessible by
any other means has encouraged graziers
to give serious consideration to the erec-
tion of group netting fences, co-operative
poisoning campaigns, and employment of
doggers. The consensus of opinion
among sheepmen is that fencing him out
is the only method which will eventually
give the industry protection against the
pest.
Beef Shorthorns.
“Atlanta”: Many mixed lots of cattle
possessing Shorthorn beef character are
sold regularly without due recognition
of the breed. Shorthorn colors are fre-
quently confused or hidden by dominance
of colors or color patterns associated
with other breeds, the reputations of
which are enhanced by Shorthorn pre-
potence in beef qualities such as depth,
thickness, weight for age and good
quarters —characteristics for which Short-
horns are world famous.
Breeders who intend starting with pure-
bred Shorthorns could think over the fol-
lowing suggestions: First, select for your
foundation a uniform group of females
and, where practicable, inspect their sire,
dams and calves. They should be of
good conformation and of potent breed-
ing. The bull should be good enough to
sire calves that will be better than their
mothers, and sufficiently strong in indi-
viduality and breeding to correct any
weakness of the females. Top bulls in
both lines of his pedigree should be out-
standing, and he should be from a
superior cow.
Select cows that are deep-bodied,
close to the ground, wide and deeply-
and smoothly-covered with natural flesh.
While seeking the butchers’ ideal of a
rectangular-box-shape avoid animals of
dwarf conformation. Shorthorns are
noted for production of the necessary
milk to rear good calves. In most herds
the best mothers are the best milkers.
Separated Milk for Pigs.
“Prof”: Most pigs raised to market-
able standard .are reared wholly or parti-
ally on separated milk. Little regard has
been paid to economical rationing of
this valuable by-product and supple-
mentary feeding, when done, is done
haphazardly.
Milk, principally a protein-rich sub-
stance, is best fed as such. The actual
protein requirements of a growing pig
are supplied by giving one gallon of milk
daily; therefore the number of pigs
carried on a dairy farm should approxi-
mate the number of gallons of separated
milk available for them. Fed in this
way separated milk is worth up to 4|d.
a gallon.
The gallon of milk per day must be
supplemented, usually with wheat or
barley. Oats are much too coarse for
the finely adjusted stomach of the pig.
Wheat and barley are of equal feed
value, weight for weight, and can be sup-
plied to growing pigs (up to six months
of age) at the rate of lib. per day for
every month of age over two months.
Therefore a five-month-old pig gets one
gallon of milk and Sib. of wheat or
barley daily.
Crushing the grain is an advantage
done on the place—it’s not worth paying
for it to be done. Soaking for periods
not exceeding 24 hours softens the grain
and probably aids digestion, but on the
whole pigs do better on dry grain and
less labor is involved in feeding them.
When excesses of milk are available, one
gallon will replace 11b. of grain in any
age ration. Milk can be eliminated from
the diet of baconers two to three weeks
before selling.
Harvesting; Machinery.
“Myrr”: Vic. Department of Agricul-
ture points out that haymaking machinery
will be short again in Victoria this
spring, and urges farmers to put their old
machines in order. Machinery makers
are concentrating on spare parts and will
do their best to help farmers recondition
old machines. In their turn farmers will
need to co-operate by placing orders for
spare parts now.
Wide use of mechanical power has
created a desire for mechanisation of
harvest machines, but that shouldn’t blind
owners to the usefulness of the old-type,
ground-driven machines. Although not
in the class of modern power take-off
equipment, they are better than no
machines at all. There are plenty of
these old machines about, still workable
if put in order.
Fertilisers.
“Huon”: We have found here in Tas-
mania that inorganic or chemical fer-
tilisers are O.K. while one can keep them
up, that is, obtain them to apply them,
but, if for any reason you have to cut
down or cease to apply them for a season
or longer, the orchard suffers from star-
vation. Especially in old orchards,
where the humus has been worked out
of the soil by intense cultivation and
chemical feeding, is this noticeable.
On the other hand, orchards which
have been green-manured and fertilised
with, say, blood and bone pretty con-
sistently have stood up to the last seven
years of short supply to a marked degree
better than the chemically-fed ones.
Grafting.
"Big Billy”: Scions for grafting of
deciduous trees can be gathered until
the end of August, the later the better
provided bud-burst has not occurred. In
pole-grafting scions should consist of
well-matured annual shoots of about fin.
thickness. For top-working methods
they may be thicker. Insert three to four
inches deep close together, though not
overcrowded, in soil in a cool, moist
situation.
Good drainage is essential to stop rot-
ting. A cool store may be used for stor-
age, but scions need to be inspected regu-
larly and if signs of drying are detected
they may be taken out and placed up-
right in water until they revive. Scions
kept long in storage may start to grow;
if so they can be left out of the ground
but not in the sun for a few days to
retard growth.
Be careful to select scions from good-
bearing trees producing high-quality
healthy fruit. For easier identification
trees chosen for this purpose may be
marked during the summer.
Curb-bits.
“Buck Spinifex”: They are not, in
themselves, cruel devices, though they
certainly are to the uninitiated. It all
depends on the rider and for what pur-
pose he is using the curb. If a rider is
heavy-fisted or is incapable of feeling
the slightest contact with the horse's
mouth he should certainly not use a
curb-bit.
The only way I know of to balance a
horse with a snaffle-bit would be to use
a running martingale on rather the short
side, so that the snaffle (not a jointed
snaffle) acts on the bars. The action
Of the snaffle-bit, which presses on
the corners of the mouth, is to raise the
horse’s head. The curb makes the horse
flex or “give” its lower jaw.
The snaffle-bit usually suits a man who
is content with mediocrity in his horses.


For Sale.
LIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b. ; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
W.s.w. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
ijairy Stock
c
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It .contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
— All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
Q.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide. 088 Perth.
mml/Mw™
Q
»
&
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
Airway Cases, in
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvas
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited . . .
but increasing!
vT
v‘ 5
f s
O^NOGAS
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
' f
»♦ “ v
■ * * *«
*****
!S-
.»<>
t*ff
*> !
sw
*'Z, *
y* <***
/
CoLyev.
_>• >
,* . * >* e
»v* , ...
v*
YOUR PROBLEM OF SHIPPING
SMALL PACKAGES
V ’
Wof?
>•
>- ■ ,^o^ 6
' s »'' , C» *•’
.I** .1 *
w*
/K<
> a
V»
fe<s
my"..
THEM TO A MULTI-UNIT
PACK WITH A
GERHARD
Tension*/
Strapping
System
GERRARD Packaging Engineers are
freely available to demonstrate how
1. Shipping regulations can be observed.
2. Your handling costs lowered.
3. Your Product given better Protection .
Enquire at:
GERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES
CO PTY. LTD.
18-24 IRELAND ST., W. MELBOURNE, C. 3
269 SUSSEX ST., SYDNEY
240 BARRY PARADE, VALLEY, BRISBANE
168 GROTE ST., ADELAIDE
W. H. EVANS LTD., 115 ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE, PERTH
193
■£!
■ m
■
mm
m
■
ilsillM
:
sMmm
■
,
n n
Beyond this stage we must turn to the
bit and bridoon. , ~
The pressure of the legs of the rider
creates the necessary impulsion, and th
contact on the bit regulates and brings
the hocks more under the horse hence
a balanced hack, and the horse is then
collected and is more readily enabled to
shift its centre of gravity with the least
eX Colle n ction means the gathering together
between the rider’s hand and leg of the
energy of the horse. I am not thinking
of or referring to the usual farm or station
plug, which functions reasonably well with
a snaffle on a minimum of attention an
care; but have in mind the hunter or
well-mannered riding-horse from which
we expect the best of rides, surely one
of the most delightful things this world
can give us. May I suggest to those
interested the perusal of Major Patter-
son’s Sympathetic Training of Mount and
Man, also Equitation, by Henry Wyn-
malen.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mr.”: A. C. T. Hewitt, M. Agr. Sc.,
in the Vic. “Journal of Agriculture,”
points out that the dairyfarmer who keeps
records of his cows will discover for him-
self which are his best producers and
breeders. If it isn’t possible to procure
a sire with proven records of breeding
and production, Hewitt recommends using
a bull by a proven sire from a high-
producing cow which also is the mother
of high-producing daughters.
“Myrrhee”: Before planting a decidu-
ous tree, prune the roots, as new growth
will come away better from a cleanly-
cut root than a broken or bruised one.
Remove or cut back hard strong roots
likely to produce an unbalanced root
system.
“Bat”: To prevent rust forming inside
a new iron tank, paint it inside with a
bituminous paint, giving two coats to
joinings and overlapping parts. Wash
well when quite dry, rinse and drain
well before using.
“Glen Davis”: An easy, quick and
Clean method of branding tools is to use
the ordinary six-volt battery, two leads
and either a brass or carbon pencil. The
carbon pencil can be made from old
torch-battery carbon and sharpened to a
pencil point. Connect a lead from nega-
tive pole of battery to part on which
name is to be engraved. The positive pole
is connected by a lead to pencil (brass
or carbon), which is used same as an
ordinary pencil. Gloves must be worn
as pencil heats up slightly from the arc.
Part to be engraved must be clean and
bright.
“Bill C.”: The gardener who keeps
dumping water on to vegetables whose
roots, green tops or fruits are at maturity
is not only wasting effort, but asking for
trouble.. Melons will go bad if the vines
are watered heavily when the fruits are
ripening ; the firm heads of cabbages will
burst; tomatoes will not ripen but will
rot; beets and carrots may develop
masses of fibrous side-roots which greatly
detract from their market value. About
the only veges that can stand watering
right up to the last are lettuce and radish,
but lettuce shouldn’t have it if they’re
being sent any distance in crates.
“Moira”: When making income-tax
returns, deductions are allowed for
money spent on soil conservation, tank-
sinking, etc. If returns have been sent
in for 1946-47 an amended return can be
put in claiming the deductions, or the
amount expended counted in the return
for next year.
“Double-dee”; When doing sizable
plaster repairs, as when lining with used
plaster board from army dismantlings,
something cheaper and slower in drying
than pure plaster is needed. Take stone
lime, slack thoroughly, stir to milk,
strain. Allow to settle. Decant off all
clear water. Then allow residue to settle
by evaporation to a pudding-like con-
sistency. This is now lime-putty, the
main plaster of the old-time plasterer.
This, mixed at two, or even three, to
one of plaster of Paris gives a strong,
reasonably slow-setting filler, suitable
for the amateur doing repair work. It
is also much cheaper. Both lime and
plaster of Paris (gypsum) being com-
pounds of calcium, they mix and com-
bine without any adverse reaction.
“Sarina”: Make it your first job the
morning after you have burned a fire-
break to walk around the burned area
looking for smouldering logs or trees.
Doing this prevents many fires.
“Gip”: To get a truck out of a bog,
cut a short forked stick and a long
sapling. Place the fork upright close to
the hub of the wheel that is bogged.
Place the sapling in the fork with one
end under the hub. Using the sapling
as a lever, raise the wheel high enough
to put a plank under it. In lieu ol a
plank fill the hole with stones or pieces
of wood.
“C.W.W.”: The measurements seem
to be slightly out in that hint on the
capacity of a preserved-fruit tin (B,
23/7/’47). I reckon a tin holds If pints
or .2040 z. a gallon and that for a pint
it should be filled to within Ifin. of the
top.
“Prof”; Bags .are expensive these
days and fertiliser companies are accept-
ing washed bags to supply next year’s
super. We threw all the super, bags we
could find into the sheep dip and left
them there for a fortnight. The soluble
phosphates which will rot unwashed
bags are dissolved out and the bags can
be hooked out and hung on the fence
to dry. The fertiliser makes the water
hard apd thus unsuitable for use as a
solvent of sheep dips, so must be pumped
out after washing is complete.
“Bill C”: One of the best antiseptics
for keeping punctured wounds in the
feet of stock free from germs is ordinary
kerosene. It can be gently trickled in
or applied on a pledget of cotton wool.
However, the right stuff for irrigating
wounds containing dirt or pus is hydro-
gen peroxide. For stake wounds sus-
pected of containing splinters apply hot
poultices or plasters of Venice turpen-
tine. The latter rarely fails to draw out
foreign bodies within a few hours.
“Big Billy”: Stop the red-legged earth
mite by erjclosing the affected area with
a band of creosote or tar oil, distributed
through two small holes in the bottom
of a gallon oil-tim In clean soil this fin.
band has been shown by Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture tests to remain
effective for several weeks. One gallon
will provide a band of 12 to 15 chains ; a
wider band is advisable in a small field or
domestic garden', A dust of one part of
15 p.c. carbolic with three parts of lime
or super will remove all mites within the
area.


ryz
MULTIPLE
PLIES
CO B 0
“They wont work, and Vll prove
it”, said a Detroit automotive engi-
neer. He fitted a set of new Good-
year multiple-ply cord tyres to his
car and set out for Indianapolis
where he tired himself out on the
speedway trying to wear out the
tyres.
Where ordinary tyres gave 2,500 miles,
Goodyear multiple-ply cord tyres increased
the mileage to 7,500. Three times the mileage! This important
“first” took Goodyear to leadership in the tyre industry by 1915.
Now it is true, as it has been true every year for the past 32 years,
that more people, the world over, ride on Goodyear tyres than
any other make . . . and, according to a recent independent
Ashby Research 43.5% more motorists
are going to buy Goodyear tyres than
any other make •
every
year
for
32
years
GOODYEAR
—you don t stay FIRST unless yoiCre best
City architect
gives timely advice to
Home Planners
V
Be sure to consult an archi-
tect before building your
home. You will save his
fee many times over as the
years go by because he will
save you from making the
mistakes which lead to costly
repairs. Here is some advice
in advance from a leading
city architect.
Big home or small?
Don’t try to build a big home
if you’ve got to use cheap
materials to cover the cost.
Any good architect can design
you a home that will be small
and attractive to start off with
and which can be added to
as your family grows.
Cane-ite walls and ceilings
are so simple and inexpensive
to instal they stretch your
home-building budget much
farther.
* * *
Ground plan
A simple ground plan cuts
building costs.
* * *
Spaciousness and dignity
Keep your exterior simple
big windows and a beautiful
entrance can give even the
smallest home an appearance
of spaciousness and dignity.
Continue this impression in-
side with the clean-cut look
that Cane-ite walls and ceilings
give to a room. You can
paint or Kalsomine over Cane-
ite. And there is an Ivory
Cane-ite f or ceilings.
* k* *
Warmth and coolness
The temperature of your rooms
is as important to your
comfort as their lighting,
furnishing or shape. Cane-
ite walls and ceilings insulate
against summer heat and
winter cold make it much
easier to keep an even tem-
perature all the year. Cane-
ite is easy and inexpensive to
instal and stretches your home-
building budget much further.
Insulate and Decorate with
.5
..MmM
Walls and Ceilings
Sold by hardware stores and timber merchants everywhere.
Manufactured by \
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
looks at him, nods, gulps a little and
hurries on.
“Machine-gun fire,” he explains. “And
none of us got hit. Got him in, too. Fine
fellow. No complaints.”
Terry shakes his head as though he
cannot believe it. “Bet you got the Em
Em for that,” he says.
“M.M.?” says Mr. Tracey. “Oh, no,
you don’t get the M.M. for that,” he
explains. “Oh, no, not that.” He laughs
deprecatingly. “Those things came down
in the ration truck,” he says, and laughs.
“Ha! Ha! In the ration truck.”
He sees the boys exchanging looks, and
becomes serious.
“I did see fellows get decorations, mind
you,” he says. “And they did deserve
them, let me tell you.”
They let Mr. Tracey tell them. They
listen with real interest to all he has to
say, and they nod, say a word here, and
reckon, with intaking of breath, that it
must have been terrific, and Mr. Tracey,
speaking at a rapid rate, nods and agrees,
agrees and nods, and tells them, warn-
ingly, that it is not all they think it
might be, but a man remembers all the
best things, by jove, and it wasn’t —er —
hah —a bad experience, but there you
are. Yes, certainly, Terry, he has been
to the war.
At the end of all this Terry nods, as
though he was quite convinced, all the
time, that Mr. Tracey must have been to
the war, and the small vegetable comes
to life and says, over and over again, “Gee,
mister,” in so awed a voice, and with
so much genuine admiration, that Mr.
Tracey feels the trappings of his age fall
from him, his grey hair is brown and
crisped, his face is young and firm again,
and he might easily march, as once he
marched to some of the fine old tunes.
He thinks, too, how bright he used to
be in those days, and casts a sort of
frown at himself for the old hermit he is
now becoming, and how he is, altogether
too much, living in himself. He looks
about for some means of remedying
these states of error, but can see none.
Terry, of course, being a wise young
man, rouses himself, smiles cheerfully
upon Mr. Tracey, and says he must be
going if he wishes to get his vegetables
sold, but he will be back again, Mr.
Tracey can be sure of that. He waves
goodbye to Mr. Tracey and all his cauli-
flowers, urges the old mare into a sem-
blance of life, so that the dray scrapes
and whistles along the red road.
Mr. Tracey watches them depart with
some little dismay in his breast. He
feels he must do something, that life now
is altogether unsuitably geared to his
present high momentum.
“Er—hah —Terry,” he calls loudly.
“Stop that cart, boy! Er —hah —would
you jike some of my caulies to sell?”
Terry, for all his cunning, cannot con-
tain his smiling, and Mr. Tracey sees
that this Terry has somehow brought him
to a state of selling his caulies, and he
might very well be angered, but he is
not. He shakes a finger at the young
rascal, laughs, and says, without peering
over his spectacles, “I believe you started
me off talking like that, young Terry, so
that you would get my caulies, eh? No,
don’t deny it! Isn’t it so?”
Terry thinks it is best to be straight-
forward about it all, so that he tells Mr.
Tracey he did want Mr, Tracey’s cauli-
flowers, because if he had Mr. Tracey’s
caulies, or any of his vegetables, for that
matter, then his sales would increase,
and he would be able to compete with
Joe O’Malley, who did the Thursday run,
and in any case Joe O’Malley’s vegetables
were pretty poor, and if Mr. Tracey
thought his, Terry’s, were poor, then he
ought to see Joe O’Malley’s.
“Quite so. Quite so,” says Mr. Tracey,
and he is warmed to think his vegetables
have such high repute, and he remembers
his initial objection to selling vegetables
to the Wirril Creek folk was because of
their laughter at his pioneer vegetable-
producing project, immediately following
World War One. Very sensitive he had
been then. However, a new generation
was growing, and it was to be doubted
whether they should be penalised. If,
then, they really think his vegetables are
so good . . .
Aloud he says, “Well, you haven’t
caught me, young Terry, because I’m
going to let you have what you want,
now, or at any time for that matter,
providing of course you can give me a
fair thing.”
TERRY is the young businessman, a
little eager perhaps, but saying that he
can give Mr. Tracey just over the market
price, which is good, really, seeing as how
Mr. Tracey will not have to pay agent’s
fees, freight, or even worry about bagging
and boxing. Mr. Tracey nods at all this,
and smiles and says it is a great thing,
and how many caulies will Terry want,
and if he wants some good pumpkins,
pumpkins that will keep, then he has some
good hard Queensland Blues if he would
like them.
Terry says he would like them, and he
takes as many caulies as he can manage
to heap into the dray, so that the small
vegetable boy has to climb out of the
vegetables, and sit up on the front seat
with Terry, and the two make off down
the road with the green plumes of cauli-
flower leaves swaying and nodding behind
them, and Mr. Tracey, looking down at
his coins and nodding, and looking up
at the boys and nodding, seems alert
and satisfied, whilst Terry, triumphant
amidst his spoils, thinks it is a very fine
thing, which might never happen again,
but anyway once is better than not at
all, and a jolly sight better, indeed.


The unforgettable Nile
m
&
mm
n
gT"..
THE steamers that traverse the age-old course of the Nile are
lavishly provided with modern comfort. Restfully at ease on
shaded decks one glides back into the romantic past on a voyage
of fascinating discovery. Frequent landings disclose scenes that
have altered little with the passage of years, and imagination
re-peoples majestic temples as they must have been in the proud
days of their building. Travellers to Europe are afforded a rare
opportunity of seeing for themselves the treasured records of
Egypt’s ancient civilization. Special Tourist Visas, obtainable in
the British Commonwealth, enable them to break their journey
and enjoy a visit of unusual interest.
Always for the tourist, everywhere, is the cordial Egyptian
welcome. Hotel accommodation is luxurious. Golf, tennis,
swimming, dancing indeed, all the social events that
make life worth living provide a fascinating contrast to
the glories of an earlier era.
Special Tourist Visas obtainable in the British Common-
wealth and Empire. Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies
sok™ !
LAND
ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
A •j
i
tmee
mum
K
y r usaoer
' 8
m
I ■
Sill
m
MA
®aSIW»¥ W'
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
ẃ
ẅ
“A Broadway firm selling wigs gives hfetmr
service with them. It will grey the wig grad -
ally as the wearer grows older.” —Sydney u.i .
And darken it again when one reaches
second childhood?
“Never over-do your make-up.” „
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.
And you’ll have less abuse to face.
•j*
“Hyams pleaded that he had taken ten
thousand pounds in a moment of weakness.
—Magazine story.
But he had the strength to carry the
stuff away.
•I* *S* *i* 4* .
“Singers and others sold and hired.”
—Suburban paper.
You can get them for a song.
“Fetch it!"
Family Spirit.
“An infants’ supply shop presents customer
parents of new-born babies with a bottle of
Scotch to celebrate the occasion.
—Sydney Daily Telegraph.
“Where did I come from, mummy dear ?"
Asked sweet little Jane with the eyes of
blue, .
While mummy pretended she just didn t
hear
Glancing first to the ceiling then down
at her shoe.
“Is it true, as they say. that a long-legged
stork
Brought me wrapped in a bundle to Dr.
Brown’s place ?”
“Yes, darling, and you were as light as
a cork
When we lifted you out of his little black
case.”
“How much did I cost ? Was the price
high or low?
Was 1 precious as rings or a gold wristlet-
watch ?”
“Dearie me.” mother sighed, “if you really
must know,
Daddy bought you, my pet. for a bottle
of Scotch
D. H. E.
w
TRAY.
One To Win.
“Two hot-headed Cuban politicians, com-
mitted to a duel, gave themselves 48 hours
in which to leam the art of sabre-fighting.”
I am convinced that the hot-headed
man should never take on duelling as a
sport, especially when he and his oppo-
nent don’t share the same language.
I was strolling down the Rue de la
Vinblanc and had turned to admire the
shapeliness of a short-skirted midinette
who was stepping on the high platform
of a bus when a Frenchman wearing a
pointed beard and a cape like Mandrake’s
over some sort of a uniform came by
swinging a cane, which knocked my hat
off. Annoyed at having my favorite
outdoor sport so rudely interrupted I
bounded after the cane-swinger and
tapped him on the shoulder.
“Listen, you shovel-gutted, horse-faced
half-wit,” I said politely, “say you’re
sorry for knocking my cady off or I’ll
give you a boot in the grummet that’ll
make your unborn grandson wince!”
He looked puzzled for a moment, then
he smiled, spread his hands in the Gallic
manner and bowed deeply. Bien.
m’sieu,” he said happily. “M’sieu est
le bon gentilhomme for ’aving —ow you
Z ay?—ajolopise so ’andsome, nest ce
yy>
What could one do in the face of such
crass foreign stupidity? I bowed. “Mon-
seer is right,” I said. “I am deeply sorry,
and trust monseer has not been incon-
venienced by the incident” —and I bowed
again. , .
He bristled. “M’sieu makes ze insult
to mon pc re!” he shrilled. Sucre notn
de nom” , . , , „
“Shut up, you lolly-legged wart-hog!
I roared. “For two pins I’d spread your
conk across your clock! On your way,
or I’ll sprinkle some insecticide over
you and there’ll be one louse the less in
France!”
For a second I fdared he was going to
embrace me, so pleased he looked^
“Je vous remerci beaucoup!” he
said gaily. “ M’sieu ees zo kindfuls, zo
thoughtness, oui ?”
Again I bowed. “Say not so, mon-
seer. lam in your debt.”
At this he went livid with anger, tore
off a glove and hurled it at my feet.
“M’sieu cast ze refleezion on ze honaire
off my wife. Bas! Ve shall foughts ze
duel, non ? My seconds, m’sieu, zey calls
on you apres-midi for arranging satisfac-
tions. Mon carte !” —and he handed me
a pasteboard.
I handed him mine. “Send your
seconds!” I said, “and your minutes, too,
provided you’ve signed them.”
That afternoon two arm-waving gents
in morning coats and tapered stovepipe
hats came to arrange the details. I chose
four-foot scimitars at three inches, stipu-
lating that the weapons be in position
through the waist belt on the right hand
side when the umpire said “Go!”
His seconds protested that Count
Felicity de Cochon —my opponent —had
never even heard of, let alone seen, a
scimitar. I told them neither had I.
Nevertheless, I insisted on my choice of
weapons, as was my right as the chal--
Next morning, before breakfast, when
I went .to the rendezvous in the Champs
Elysees I found my opponent making
passes at an imaginary opponent while |
a voice blared at about 250 w.p.m. from
a near-by gramophone. One of the
seconds informed me that the Count had
been unable to buy a book on fencing,
so had got a fencing master to make a
record of some elementary tuition.
When he saw me pull up a sleeve and
shave the hair off my forearm with my
scimitar the Count turned three shades
of green paler, called for a shot of sal
volatile, then appealed to the umpire
against the light, although it was a beauti-
ful morning with only a few white clouds
about. . , _ A , .
“Monseer thinks he is the Test bats-
man, yes?” I asked. “Now, look! Mon-
seer has an appointment in a few minutes
with a marble slab. Let’s not keep it
waiting. Shape up!”
Eventually the umpire got us m posi-
tion, facing each other three inches apart,
our long scimitars in our belts on the
right side.
When he said “Allez!” the Count spat
fair in my eye, then tried to bow before
reaching with his right hand for his
weapon. He struggled to yank it out ot
his belt, but as he was standing so close
to me he didn’t have room to manoeuvre,
and he couldn’t release it.
Here was where my over-all strategy
came into play. As he still vainly tried
to pull it out I calmly reached around
my back with my left hand—yes, Im a
mollydook —withdrew my scimitar with’
an easy sweep and, with a gentle smile 1
at the discomfiture of my opponent, who
was still madly tugging at his weapon
handle, I gave him a playful jab m the
shin with it. |
“Monseer likes ze duel, yes? I said.
Then I held up the point. “First blood
—look!” _ , '
It was a foolish act. Even as I glanced >•
at the tip I recalled too late that I had
never been able to look on spilled gore
without throwing a doubler. As I fell I
lurched against the Count’s scimitar still
in his belt, and felt a sharp jab in the
hand and everything went blank.
I came to to find the Count bending
over me with the smelling salts. “Honaire
eez satisfaction, m’sieu!” he said joy-
fully. “Ve both draw ze blood” —and
he bent over and kissed both cheeks.
I struggled up. “Don’t do that again,
I said, “or I’ll wring your scraggy neck!”
The Count beamed. “M’sieu, ’e say
ze nicest things. Ze droll fellow, mats
ouir
“Of course you may!” I said. Now
scat **
The Count straightened himself. Then,
seizing himself by the collar, he marched
himself off. I looked my surprise at the
seconds.
“Ze Count is Chif of Pliss,” said one.
“ ’E ’ave ze job of put down illegal duels.
’E arrest ’imself. VoildJ”
Bo


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Migration
Periodically, through the history of
civilisation, there have occurred great
migrations of peoples—reshufflings of
humanity arising out of the development
of new economic or political stresses.
They may be touched off by war, oppres-
sion, famine, but these are only the peak
symptoms of the stresses —the straw
beyond endurance which drives man to
pack his chattels and go. Perhaps the
most recent example was the. mass migra-
tion of Europeans to the U.S.A. in the
nineteenth century.
The last war has only been followed
so far by forced migration, the expul-
sion of populations from territories seized
by belligerents and the wholesale impor-
tation by some countries of slave-labor.
Of spontaneous migration there has
emerged one example, and it has been
thwarted. Have we, the British, been
either right or wise to bar the mass move-
ment of Jews to Palestine? The urge
behind the movement is immense—people
by thousands do not risk their lives in
leaky hell-ships to seek a landfall known
to be forcibly guarded against them, with
the odds on their voyage ending in a
concentration camp, unless driven by in-
stincts and hopes of great power. Their
stubborn courage must be acknowledged.
Are we, for political reasons, monkey-
ing with a force which history has shown
to be elemental? In striving to hold a
balance between them, we have made
enemies of the Jews, and not greatly in-
gratiated ourselves with the Arabs. Sup-
posing we had not interfered with this
movement of the Jewish people, might
not it have resulted in the long run in
the emergence in the Eastern Mediter-
ranean of a new, strong and friendly
Power? Will the Arabs, Asiatic Moslems,
ever be that?
Turning to another aspect of migra-
tion, what hope has Australia of becom-
ing a world Power unless immigration
occurs on the same scale as that which
made the U.S.A.? It could endanger our
standards of living? Perhaps, tempo-
rarily, though the standard is not low
in America today. And suppose the
alternative to a temporary lowering of
the standard is annihilation by Asiatic
millions with no standard at all? There
is grim reality in that phrase “Populate
or perish!”
It is not beyond imagination that our
own kin, the British of the British Isles,
may before long be swept by a wave of
restlessness. The islands that for so long
have been safe are unsafe now, the
Channel no longer a bastion ; the people
are crowded, poor, hungry, cold and a
little afraid. Here are the conditions
that in the past have so often put
humanity on the march. Thousands have
already felt the impulse and it could
spread with the swiftness of mob hysteria.
If we could direct the movement toward
Australia it might bring about the virtual
transplantation of the centre of British
life to the southern hemisphere.— Kell
(N.S.W.).
The Tropics
It has been left to “mad dogs and
Englishmen” (B. 21/5/’47) to disprove
the theory that the white man cannot
do heavy work or exercise in the tropics.
Twenty years ago Raphael Cilento
created a storm when he said that white
men could work and thrive as well in
the middle latitudes as elsewhere.
Cilento gave startling statistics for
his own North Queensland, which com-
pares more than favorably with the
southern States for longevity of life, low
maternal and infantile mortalities and
standards of fitness for military service.
And I have yet to see more arduous in-
dustries than those of the north.
But N.Q., with temperatures and
humidities similar to those in other
tropical countries, is virtually free of de-
bilitating disease and has no reservoirs of
infection as exist in native communities
with their low standards of hygiene.
Twenty years ago the white man in
New Guinea would do no manual labor.
It wgs said that he would die, but his
violent sports did not kill him. The
other argument was that he would lose
prestige with the natives. Industrial ex-
pansion and the exclusion of Asiatic
craftsmen led to the importation of Aus-
tralian carpenters, blacksmiths and steel-
workers. Disregarding custom, they
dressed to suit the climate and toiled in
the sun. Their sporting teams defeated
the “old hands” and they survived. Nor
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
did they lose caste with the natives pro-
vided they observed the ordinary rules.
The p.-0,-w. who worked on the
Burma-Siam railway died in their thou-
sands, not from hard work or climate,
but from disease, starvation and the lack
of ordinary amenities. Those who sur-
vived aver that, with organised hygiene,
proper food and medical supplies, the
railroad could have been built in half
the time without loss.— Frank Mauri
(N.S.W.).
Kimberley Beef
If that proposal to run Kimberley
(W.A.) carcass meat to Perth by plane
(B. 16/7/’47) calls for £50,000 freezing
plants the scheme is doomed to failure
before it starts. The cost of transport
would probably be prohibitive without
interest charges on freezing stations, plus
Kimberley wage rates and the 40-hour
week.
The only practicable idea is that the
beeves b£ slaughtered on the stations,
the meat loaded at once and flown to
altitudes where freezing temperatures
prevail. The meat could then be flown
the thousand or so miles and landed into
metropolitan cold storage.
The whole idea of the scheme was that
the meat should be loaded fresh and
finish its journey while still fresh—dis-
criminating buyers mightspay a little extra
for such beef. The chief trouble with the
present sea transport is that the cattle do
not eat on the journey, lose condition and
become incredibly tough. G’roper
(W.A.).
Free Medicine
“Jock” (B. 25/6/’47) says the N.Z.
scheme is a failure because patients rush
the bargain-counter for “bottles.” “Ad
Rem” (B. 9/7/’47) attributes the failure
to doctors who flog the 7s. 6d. con-
sultation fee to death. Both agree about
the failure and the waste, but “A.R.”
still barracks for the scheme because
most people prefer it. In other words, he
supports a proved and admitted failure
because it is popular.
“Free” medicine is only another ver-
sion of the ruinous cost -plus system of
industry which encouraged waste by the
employee and profiteering by the em-
ployer. It was certainly popular, but it
was just as certainly a short road to
national bankruptcy.
“Free” medicine, by subsidising sel-
fishness in the medico and the “chronic,”
becomes a legalised racket in which cost
is ignored by both. While human nature
remains what it always has been only
a blind optimist would expect the plan
to be anything else but a failure.
Meanwhile, the provident patient who
prefers to choose his own doctor or hos-
pital must foot his own bill while con-
tributing tp the expenses of his improvi-
dent neighbor. The conscientious doc-
tor loses his liberty to prescribe scien-'
tifically.
“A.R.” grants that “free medicine” is
not free, also that it has been weighed
and found wanting. Does he really be-
lieve that efficient medical attention can
be given through a glorified but dis-
credited slot machine? — Pestle (S.A.).
“Been waitin' long, mate?"
“Emergency Premises’'
Prefabricated huts accommodating new
branches of the Commonwealth Bank
are branded “Emergency Premises.” The
Concise Oxford Dictionary defines
emergency as a “sudden juncture de-
manding immediate action.”
What is this sudden juncture in the
world of banking which requires immedi-
ate action? Have the trading banks
fallen down on the job, so necessitating
immediate action on the Government’s
part to restore such an essential service
as banking. Not on your life! Australia
is better served with banking facilities
than are many other countries —the
cities and suburbs are most adequately
catered for, and many country towns
are, if anything, overbanked. All that
competition, however, makes for good
service, while rates charged for over-
drafts and rates quoted for deposits are
fixed by the Government.
The only noticeable effect of this “im-
mediate action” in at least two country
towns is that additional men have been
added to the local banking population—
men who could be better employed in
the famous drive for increased produc-
tion. In Castlemaine (Vic.) a house has
been acquired to accommodate some of
the staff, a house which a returned soldier
wanted. Apparently the Commonwealth
Bank is determined that its managers
shall have houses at whatever cost, know-
ing that the Delegate to the Treasurer can-
not veto the sale.— Nugget (Vic.).
Efficiency
I recently lost track of a small cheque
and rang the bank asking somewhat
vaguely for the “accountant.” The man
answering immediately grasped what I
was after, had my name right without
repetition, and within about four minutes
discovered that I had inadvertently in-
cluded the cheque with a pay-in sent by
post without making it part of the total.
He told me that a separate credit had
been made.
As I hung up the receiver I reflected
upon the almost incredible efficiency thus
demonstrated. The bank in question was
the W.A. head office of one of the largest
concerns in Australasia. From among
thousands of accounts in a huge build-
ing this man to whom I was personally
unknown had secured within a matter
of minutes all relevant information con-
cerning a solitary cheque for £4 4s.
which had been sent in bundled up by
mistake in my own pay-in.
This sort of service is made available
to me as an unimportant member of the
general public for the laughable sum of
10s. a year. My cheque forms are free
of charge, a benign Government extract-
ing 2d. stamp duty from me.
The difference between this incident
and any sort of contact made with a
Government department throws an in-
teresting light on the question of “social-
isation of industry, production and ex-
change.”
Further, although I don’t “own” this
bank in the sense in which I “own” the
railways, I am not disturbed with any of
the disadvantages of ownership. The bank
probably makes a profit—although cer-
tainly not out of my ten bob—but if it
fails that is none of my concern, and I
can continue on my humble way secure
in the knowledge that it won’t make me
fork out for any losses. —R. H. G. (W.A.),
Ceremonial
Watching the Royal Marines beating
the Retreat at the Sydney Shrine of Re-
membrance I remembered the ceremonial
parades and guard mountings that I had
taken part in during my Army service.
Parades in all parts of the world'. In Eng-
land in the dark days of 1940, in the
Middle East, in the islands and in Aus-
tralia.
I remembered how we all hated the
preparations and training for those special
occasions, how we grumbled about “a
lot of Army bull” as we scrubbed our
equipment and burnished our boots. And
how we stuck out our chests and were
filled with pride in our unit and ourselves
once the ceremony was actually under
way, and we marched on to the parade
ground, stepping smartly to the band and
thoroughly conscious that we were putting
on a show Wbrth watching. »
The tradition that Australians are not
good parade-ground soldiers is erroneous.
The men I marched with and fought with
would all claim that we could put on as
good a show as any British troops. And
if, after two world wars, Australians
have no military tradition worthy ot
ceremonial recognition they never will
have any.
I suggest that, as we cannot dispense
with armed forces, we might allow them
to have some public recognition. Instead
of confining the appearances of our
guards to outer city barracks and
occasional marches through the capitals
there could be a ceremonial beating of
Retreat at suitable points in the capitals
of each State at least once a week. The
ceremony would both honor the men who
have gone and give our present service-
men a chance to show the public that
they have a very fine military tradition.
In time, visitors to our cities would
come to admire our guards and to visit
the ceremonies as they go to watch the
Palace guards in London. —C. R.
(N.S.W.).
Made in Russia?
The N. S. Wales Chamber of Manu-
factures, in “The Manufacturer’s Bul-
letin” for July, advises that N. S. Wales
Order W46/190 (Trading with the Enemy
Act) has been amended by deleting
“Karafuto” from para 3 thereof. The
article goes on: “Goods from Karafuto,
which is the southern position of the
Island of Sakhalin, may now be regarded
as being of Russian origin as well as
those from the northern part of the
island.”
On the face of it, this official action
appears to be a tacit acceptance of
Russia’s claims to the whole of Sakhalin,
Atlantic Charter notwithstanding.
I’ve not yet seen, nor do I expect to
see, an announcement that Jap textiles
will be marketed in Australia as being of
U.S. origin, nor do I expect that German
goods will ever reach world markets
under the flags of the occupying nations.
Is this • Australian recognition of the
Russian occupation further evidence of
an appeasement approach to the Soviet?
—Grey Mentor (N.S.W.).
East and West;
They are indeed meeting, but not mix-
ing without becoming more or less ex-
plosive. Compare the attitude of Law-
rence of Arabia with that of the average
politician.
When Lawrence met Arabs on their
home ground he was able to deduce from
their features, language, religion and
dress the age-long history of their an-
cestors. Beginning as marauding hill-
men, these forefathers became in turn
shepherds of the plain, city-dwellers,
agriculturists and nomads of the desert.
Always they were fighters. Their re-
ligion, habits and customs were moulded
by geological, climatic and economic
conditions through centuries of vicissi-
tudes and could not be changed in the
twinkling of an eye by an argument
however logical, any more than their
complexion or physique could be altered
by moral suasion.
Lawrence knew their ingrained vices
and virtues and how these had evolved
through natural causes. He knew his
own inability to erase prejudices that
were as indelible as the spots on a
leopard. Knowing all, he was able to
forgive much. By insight and sympathy
he led where he could not drive and
modified what he could not destroy. His
profound scholarship enabled him to
work miracles of diplomacy single-
handed.
Machine-made politicians, suddenly
confronted by social and religious prob-
lems of which they know little, though
fortified with immense power, achieve
less than one 'man whose well-trained
mind could look backward as well as
forward in the desert or in the councils
of the tribes. — Semite (S.A.).
,The Golden Age
Those people still looking for Chif.’s
Golden Age must be blind. Enterprising
sections of the community have already
had it. Publicans, taxi-drivers, waterside
workers with their danger and stench
money, seamen with their war-risk
bonus, have been, or are, riding on the
crest of a high wave of prosperity.
Then we pass on to the politicians.
Mr. Chifley has made provision for them
in his Golden Age. They will also have
aviation at their disposal soon to make
travelling quicker and easier for them.
Some of the more knowing ones have
trips around the world with their wives
in attendance.
Any clear-thinking person must realise
that defeated politicians could not pos-
sibly have acquired the positions that
they were pelted into without an
abrformal age of some kind existing. Even
our Governor-General must admit that
“Golden” is not an adequate adjective
to apply to the present era.
Those who have not yet realised that a
“Golden Age” is in existence must be
the suckers who are paying for it.—
T.J.H. (W.A.).


“Dedman’s Dole” , R
Replies to my observations (B.
9/7/’47V covered very little new ground
Of those who complain the most I should
like to know what has happened to t i
deferred pay and the savings they should
have made from their service pay. A
private had at least two guineas clear
each week, and if trainees are chosen on
scholastic ability and natural aptitude
it is not too much to suppose that they
rose to a higher rank, with increased
opportunities for saving.
Just how many of those who are com-
plaining actually contemplated a Uni-
versity course before enlisting? Those
who did must have been assured of suffi-
cient financial support from their
parents. Now is the time for parents
to come forward, with their money,
to pay for their children’s cigarettes, pic-
tures, dances and beer and not expect
someone else to do it for them.
“H.D.L.” says I had youth on my side
when I was studying. I was 21 when I
commenced at the University, having left
school four years earlier. Had there not
been a war I would have been securely
established in my own business, so he is
not the only one who has given up some-
thing by being in one of the services. I
could not afford to marry before I was
29, preferring to save sufficient for a
good start, and most of it was saved
from army pay. Ex-servicemen showed
little foresight in asking any woman to
share their life when they still had to
make their way in the world.
For “H.D.L.’s” benefit my tax deduc-
tions are just over £2 a week, and while
that may seem small to some, I am but
one of many who are tired of the com-
plaints of those who have cause to be
grateful to the Government. Spread
over their courses, the amounts paid to
individuals must total many hundreds
of pounds. Had they saved some
of their money instead of spending the
lot each week they would have found
“Dedman’s Dole” sufficient for their
needs. —R. W. (N.S.W.).
Arbitration
“Devil’s Advocate” (B. 16/7/’47) ad-
mits the weakness of his case in mention-
ing as a requirement “the right type of
men,”
I maintained not that the present
arbitration system cannot be improved,
but that the new Act goes the wrong
way about it. Apart from the four
matters which are reserved for the Court,
the entire field of industrial arbitration
and conciliation is to be handed over to
appointees whose decisions cannot be
“challenged, appealed against, reviewed,
quashed or called in qtiestion,” and who
cannot be removed from office unless a
political upheaval takes place.
Hitherto mistakes could be remedied
through appeals to the Full Arbitration
Court or to the High Court of Australia.
The new system contains no such safe-
guard, although the need of review and
appeal facilities is far greater, in view of
the inexperience of the Commissioners
and the more extensive powers entrusted
to them. How can the Act provide “a
vast improvement on the old structure’
when its entire success depends on the
remote possibility that politically-chosen
men will all turn out to be paragons of
impartiality, wisdom and integrity? —
Wusslean (Vic.).
The McKell Liquor Act
Our ex-servicemen’s club has just been
licensed. We started it a year or two
ago, and we are proud of it. Without
it we could never have got to know each
other so well, and the schemes that have
been threshed out there for the better-
ment of ourselves and the country in
general and for the help of those of us
who need it would not otherwise have
seen the light of day. Many of us have
discovered what an art and a pleasure
good conversation is, and have dis-
covered, too, what a difference there is
between drinking there and in the way
which the law has laid down.
Nobody gets drunk or objectionable.
We have a red-hot secretary and a
powerful committee if need be, but the
need does not arise. We have a tradi-
tion for good behavior which suffices,
and a good influence is the presence of
women. We have realised that at last
we have a place to take them to meet
our friends and drink a beer with us in
decency and comfort.
So far as the sale, or even the gift,
of a glass of beer comes into the pic-
ture —and most of us would stoutly say
that it is the very canvas of the picture
—all this has been against the law, and
at the risk of very serious penalties.
Fairly enough, in one way, as we were
not contributing our share to revenue ;
on the other hand, most unfairly, be-
cause we were forbidden to contribute
until this year. However, our Parlia-
ment passed what it called an enlightened
Act on the subject last year, and it is on
for clubs. Some clubs. Any that may
be formed after October are out of it.
So are many that are going concerns
now. The Act is silent as to how it is
to be decided which clubs must remain
outlaws, and equally silent as to why.
We, at any rate, are on the revenue
list and open to police inspection at any
time. We are a law-abiding lot of a
community that retains respect for the
law, but I can’t see that lasting much
longer now. We are licensed to supply
our own members with liquor up to
6 p.m., and none of us belong to this
leisured class ; we are all busy scratching
“ Ah! Static !”
a living until about 5.30 p.m. A drink
and a yarn in comfort from then to 6
p.m. is highly enjoyable, but club life
proper starts at night. It is going to be
worth looking at. Sitting around a fire
(the Liquor Act forgot about fires)
sipping our lemonade and playing ani-
mal grab and draughts, with a bag of
lollies passing gaily around, glancing up
now and then at a passing policeman
with untroubled consciences, I think we
may feel kin with the law-abiding Ger-
mans of ten years ago, after Hitler had
purged their beer gardens'.
We have some fine bridge players who
may have dangerous thoughts, but they
must just get used to playing it for fun.
Before we were licensed, of course,
bridge could be played for stakes on our
premises without any breach of the law
at all, but now the playing of any game
for stakes is out. Needless to say, no-
body can be supplied with liquor, even
as a gift, and it’s no good each bringing
his own bottle and glass. That would
have been perfectly lawful before we
were licensed, but now if any liquor is
being drunk on the place after 6 p.m.
the secretary is on a charge-sheet.
No doubt they can make us obey this
enlightened Act, but they can’t make us
respect it. —K. D. (N.S.W.).
Social-service Tax
As a democrat, I must grant “Downs”
(B. 9/7/’47) the right to pay his social-
service tax —he claims it is a pleasure —
but he can’t demand that I share his
payment.
I pay 10s. a week superannuation, £3
a quarter lodge fees (with sickness bene-
fits), 12s. a week insurance on my own
life and 3s. a week to insure the other
members of my family; and each of us
puts Is. a week into a “bank money-box.”
Among the four of us we own over 200
War Savings Certificates and are still
buying them. We are saving for our
own home when building starts again
and paying rent for our present home.
All this conies' out of a weekly wage of
£9 12s. 6d.
This family can manage quite well
without any Government “control” or in-
terference, and “D.” should be able to
do the same. I’m hanged if I can feel
eager to curtail the provision I’m mak-
ing for my own family to pay towards
the cost of old-age pensions, “free”
medicine, sick pay, child endowment,
strike funds, etc., for “Downs” and his
ilk.
I could afford a much better education
for my children if I did not have to con-
tribute so heavily towards the cost of
so many half-baked schemes for buying
votes with other people’s money and of
keeping those who buy the votes. — Sarge
(Vic.).
Government and Private Enterprise
“Queenslander” (B. 16/7/’47) wants
facts and comparisons. Well, I have
two life-insurance policies, one with a
Government office and one with a private
office. Having a deal in mind and wish-
ing to know the loan-value of each policy,
I called at the Government branch office,
where I was told to make a written
request. I did this and received a reply
two weeks later —too late to have any
bearing on my deal.
I had a conversation of exactly 10
minutes with the manager of the local
branch of the private office and walked
out with all the required information.
Also the private office wanted only very
short notice to make the advance, whereas
the Government office wanted weeks.
“Q.” has apparently had no dealing
with his State’s Agricultural Bank. If
he wanted an advance from it he would
have to fill in a formidable form, pay a
fee of £1 and wait. Some time later an
inspector would call for information to
make a report—he is not allowed to dis-
close his views or recommendation, but
must furnish his report to Brisbane. It
depends on the distance from Brisbane
as to how long one must wait for a deci-
sion—usually some weeks. If a loan is
then approved, another fee is required,
the amount depending on the size of the
loan. . . , ,
Compare this with a private bank.
After a few minutes’ discussion with the
branch manager, one knows approxi-
mately how much is likely to be advanced.
And no fees are required for the advice.
-D. A., (Q.).
Any large private firm tends to have
characteristics in common with public
undertakings (B. 16/7/’47). Both, be-
cause of their size, have to rely unduly
on rules and routine. Most of their busi-
ness, too, must be handled by underlings
who are naturally averse from taking re-
sponsibility on themselves. The private
concern, however, is generally the more
human in attitude to those who have
dealings with it. Also, not having the
resources of the State to fall back on,
it cannot allow itself to become so
strangled in red tape as its Governmental
equivalent. — Tom (N.S.W.).
Back Entrance
Modern air travel has necessitated a
new entrance to Sydney.
Overseas visitors arriving for the first
time receive a wretched impression of a
city that has hitherto been acclaimed as
one of the most beautiful places in the
world. How different was the former
approach, when newcomers thronged
the sides of ocean liners to see the Heads
and the magnificent harbor, with its
picturesque bays and islands! The
Bridge, the many fine structures and
dwellings along the foreshores, Farm
Cove and the Botanical Gardens all con-
tributed to an unforgettable picture.
Now, however, approach from the sky
is made through a murky blanket of haze
and smoke, temporarily hiding the ugli-
ness beneath. All too soon the hideous
outlines of smoke-stacks and a con-
glomeration of nondescript buildings
meet the eyes of arriving visitors. The
journey from the aerodrome to the city
is by bus or car, through squalid narrow
streets and byways. There are nauseat-
ing odors from a tannery on one side
and a group of shops frying fish on the
other.
Throughout the journey from Mascot
to Central-square there are no trees
or gardens or any semblance of
beauty. Buildings are huddled together
and shabby in the extreme. The roads
are rough and bumpy and the journey
takes as long as it takes a ’plane to fly
from Mascot to Bathurst.
A finely-constructed highway to serve
the aerodrome is more important than a
scenic drive around the harbor* foreshores.
It would mean removal of some of the
factories and their complement of
workers’ dwellings to other localities, but
decentralising some of them would be a
good plan in any case. Space should be
sufficient to allow the remaining build-
ings to have garden and tree decorations
similar to many of the factories on the
main western highway in Parramatta-road.
As a temporary expedient it should
be possible to sidetrack the ugliness by
building a feeder railway line to connect
the aerodrome with the main line at St.
Peters, which could convey ’plane
travellers direct to Central, St. James
and, later, to Circular Quay. A special
carriage suitably fitted to be in keeping
with the comfort now provided by air
services should be provided for through
passage to the city.— Chas (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
The list of those whose callings assure
them immunity from jury service under
N. S. Wales Premier McGirr’s bill makes
laughable reading. Included are several
categories of the higher civil and muni-
cipal servants, Parliamentarians, doctors,
apothecaries, bank tellers, cashiers and
schoolteachers. In short, some of the
very .classes best fitted to serve on a jury.
—Non-juror (N.S.W.).
Not only is there a dearth of men’s
wear (B. 23/7/’47). Recently I went to
10 shops to buy boys’ socks and came
home without seeing even one pair. Next
I went to the city, paying 3s. in fares, and
spent a day tramping from shop to shop
and always receiving the same reply,
“No boys’ socks.” Eventually I bought
girls’ plain tennis socks to solve the
problem. Why are there so many fancy
socks for girls and no plain ones for
boys, and why were there so many luxury
lines in the shops when essentials remain
scarce? — Emtee (Q.).
Dozens of times I have watched the
earth being ploughed up and rolled down
again to form roads which, with the first
ivet spell, are soaked with rain and cut
into ruts by the traffic, thus, needing
grading again. If the roads were properly-
made in the first place, gravelled and
bituminised, their upkeep would be very
light and the final expense would be no
more than that incurred by the frequent
reforming and grading of dirt roads.
Mark Time (Q.).
Last year I was taxed on my dividends,
but during the year I was lucky enough
to buy a home, financing the transaction
by selling portion of my scrip holding.
Thus I retain my capital, reduce my tax
and save paying rent. A rent-payer on
the same income from like sources before
I bought the house will be socked for
more tax than I will, as well as for rent.
I have been freed in part from the in-
iquitous double tax on dividends, levied at
their source and again in shareholders’
hands, but he won’t be. —C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
The excellent picture (B. 16/7/’47) of
the type of man whose future depends on
land ballots emphasises the tragic fact
that the majority of these fine fellows are
doomed, at the present rate of settle-
ment, to fritter away their lives hoping
and waiting. In N. S. Wales 127 have
been settled. All excuses are ruled out
by New Zealand’s figure of 9000 settled.
Governments are largely but not entirely
responsible. In my district a survey of
holdings revealed that there was sufficient
land in excess of a reasonable area to
settle every man of the district holding a
certificate. Yet only two landholders
have made land available for settlement.
—R. G. B. (N.S.W.).
Mr. Chifley’s reported suggestion that
thb Australian team at the 1948 London
Olympiad should be limited to 20
athletes, because he did not want “any
mediocre performers, hangers-on or
picnickers sent,” would be hard to beat.
No Commonwealth Government has been
so extravagant as his, or so lavish in pro-
vision of jaunts abroad for its supporters.
Not only are Ministers often away, gener-
ally accompanied by their wives and,
sometimes, a daughter, but excuses have
been found to give many private Labor
members their share of gadding about.
Our athletes at the Olympiad will do far
more for Australia than 10 times this
number of travelling politicians.—
Athlete (N.S.W.).
Despite the huge admitted losses on N.
S. Wales railways and the huger losses
anticipated, there appears to be no
attempt to reduce costs by an increase in
efficiency, less thieving, more care of
the goods handled and more comfort
for the poor old customer. Raising
freight-rates and fares will only drive
business away.-— Wilydah (N.S.W.).
When the new five-year war-savings
certificates start maturing in 1952 the
Government should adopt the slogan
“Collect the interest: reinvest the prin-
cipal.” Few people like paper profits,
and the seven years’ certificates allowed
to run on will then be 12 years old —
quite long enough for the thinking and
saving class that go in for them. And
there should be no limit to the number
one can hold. —C. H. R. (Vic.).
Applicants for a Fellowship from the
Commonwealth Literary Fund have to
state everything except their size in shoes
and what they think of cracked corn for
fowls. They have to send three recom-
mendations from people who should
know whether or not they deserve a
fellowship. Surely, then, applicants are
entitled to a brief explanation of the re-
fusal when they are turned down. All
they get now are a few lines to say “No,”
—Eve Merritt (N.S.W.).


ALMOST EVERY AUSTRALIAN
#aJUiiAU Bi# A JLi W Juli A tfi a v WP A 1Ia»mX>I111
DUMPPITC nrVDV MV PDfIMI TUP
.ahnhr ill# & V tall ¥ Ilia ¥ r IIUiVI IHt
Jr HUII Uw i 3 Ur IHt a i £i£iL INIIUm 1 ll¥
mm
m
UMI
m-
mAvm.ni a
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNi
Offices also at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, London and Singapore,
Industrial drama is graphically por-
trayed in the above picture showing
molten iron being poured into an open
hearth furnace at The Broken Hill
Proprietary's Newcastle Steel Works.
The manufacture of steel provides em-
ployment opportunities for thousands
of workers, and its subsequent shaping,
transport and fashioning into the count-
less steel articles used in our daily life
helps fill the nation's pay envelopes.
