

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
the Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3494
Wednesday, January 29, 1947
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE NATIONAL GALLERY, EDINBURGH.
A NNIE LAURIE and Mary Graham are two Scotswomen whose
names have been preserved, one by a song and the other by a
famous painting by Gainsborough. This portrait is one of the
valuable collection housed in the National Gallery, Edinburgh.
The building, designed by W. H. Playfair and opened in 1859,
stands on The Mound between the East and West Prince’s Street
Gardens. The paintings to be seen here are particularly repre-
sentative of the Scottish and French Schools of the nineteenth
century. The Mary Graham who sat for the famous Gainsborough
was the daughter of Lord Cothcart who married Thomas Graham
of Balgowan, later Lord Lynedoch, who founded the United
Service Club in Pall Mall.


EMi
Ttis Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please semi, wilhovt obligation, your Hew Fret
lioolclet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “bulletin. ’
My Same
My Address
S.B. 247 ...AGE
The Red Page
REVALUATIONS OF DICKENS
An edition of Great Expectations
shortly to be published by the Shepherd
Press, Sydney, contains the statement:
The postscript that Dickens tacked on to
the end of this novel has not been printed
in this edition. It has no relation to the
novel’s theme and was written after the
work was finished because Bulwer Lytton
implored Dickens to give the story a con-
ventional happy ending. The novel is pub-
lished here as Dickens in the full integrity
of his mind intended it to be published.
The story of Bulwer Lytton’s advice to
Dickens is told in Dame Una Pope-
Hennessy’s Charles Dickens (Chatto and
Windus) —a new and interesting biography
—where it is repeated from Forster, who
says:—
One other letter [from Dickens] throws
. light upon an objection taken not unfairly
to the too-great speed with which the
heroine, after being married, reclaimed and
widowed, is in a pd|e or two again made
love to and remarried by the hero. This
summary proceeding was not originally in-
tended.
But, over and above its pop.ular accep-
tance, the book had interested some whose
opinions Dickens specially valued. (Carlyle
among them, I remember); and upon
Bulwer Lytton objecting to a close that
should leave Pip a solitary man, Dickens
substituted what now stands.
“You will be surprised,” he wrote, “to
• hear that I have changed the end of Great
Expectations from and after Pip’s return
to Joe’s and finding his little likeness there.
Bulwer, who has been, as I think you
know, extraordinarily taken by reading the
book, so strongly urged it upon me, after
reading the proofs, and supported his view
-with such good reasons, that I resolved to
make the change. You shall have it when
you come back to town. I have put in as
pretty a little piece of writing as I could,
and 1 have no doubt the story will be more
acceptable through the alteration.”
This turned out to be the case; but the
first ending nevertheless seems to be more
consistent with the drift, as well as natural
working out, of the tale.
Which must be the only occasion, in
time or out of it, when Norman Lindsay
(who has edited and illustrated the
Shepherd Press Great Expectations) ever
agreed with Podsnap. For just as
Dickens’s mother was Mrs. Nickleby,
and Dickens’s father was Micawber, and
his friend Leigh Hunt was Harold Skim-
pole, and his friend Walter Savage
Landor was Lawrence Boythorn, and
Ellen Ternan—the actress for whom
Dickens left his wife —was Bella Wilfer,
so Forster, his friend, confidant and busi-
ness adviser, was Podsnap. And Pod-
snap, besides being, as Dickens portrayed
him, the absurd opponent of everything
in literature “calculated to bring a blush
to the cheeks of the Young Person,” was
responsible for one of the most lament-
able of Dickens’s excursions into senti-
mentality, the death of Little Nell. The
story is told in Dame Una Pope-
Hennessy’s biography; but, once again,
more fully by Forster himself:
Fast shortening as the life of little Nell
was now, the dying year might have seen
it pass away; but I never knew him wind
up any tale with such a sorrowful reluc-
tance as this . . . “It is such a very painful
thing to me [Dickens wrote] that 1 really
cannot express ray sorrow. Old wounds
bleed afresh when I only think of the way
of doiijg it: what the actual doing it will
be, God knows... .When I'first began, on
your valued suggestion, to keep my
thoughts upon this ending of the tale, I
resolved to try and do something which
might be read by people about whom
Death had been, with a softened feeling,
and with consolation v
The words printed in italics, as under-
lined by himself, give me my share in the
story which had gone so closely to his
heart. I was responsible for its tragic
ending. He had not thought of killing her,
when, about half-gSV'ay through, I asked him
to consider whether it did not necessarjiy
belong even to his own conception, after
taking so mere a child through such a
tragedy of sorrow, to lift her also out of
the commonplace of ordinary happy end-
ings, so that the gentle, pure, little figure
and form should never change to the fancy.
All that I meant he seized at once, and
never turned aside from it again.
If Norman Lindsay’s , foreword to
Great Expectations should reach the sub-
lime regions Podsnap now doubtless in-
habits there is likely to be some ruffling
*>f wing-feathers. For Mr. Lindsay in
common with most twentieth-century
admirers of Dickens, does not admire
Little Nell:
One curious evidence of inverted con-
science in Dickens is revealed by the parade
ot tenderness he made over the women he
disliked sexually. As the women he loved
were stately, lovely, passionate creatures,
the women he disliked are all labelled
Little, and are feeble, meek, spineless
creatures, without the least feminine charm,
with a perverted passion for suffering, and
always attached to a degrading association
—Little Nell to her imbecile grandfather,
Lfftle Dorrit to the loathsome Maggie,
Little Emily to the bumbling oaf Ham
Peggoty.
One looks in vain in Dame Una Pope-
Hennessy’s biography for criticism as
forthright as this. Norman Lindsay’s
“foreword,” really an essay of about
10,000 words, is a masterly analysis of
the whole of Dickens’s gigantic achieve-
ment, made with what will be recognised
as characteristic vigor, a characteristic in-
sistence on honesty in dealing with sex
and with an equally characteristic, but
perhaps not so widely-recognised, “uni-
versality” of mind . . . the ability to
comprehend, to sum up and authori-
tatively to judge, within the compact
space of an essay, the vast and diverse
output of the greatest of all novelists.
It is not that niggling sort of criticism,
valuable in its own way, that deals with
minor niceties, but the big, broad and
comprehensive analysis of a major
achievement in the arts. Norman Lindsay
will be assessed in the long run as an
“all-rounder” and, among his oils and
watercolors,' pen-drawings and etchings,
sculpture and ship models, illustrations
and cartoons, novels and children’s
books, his criticism will have a place of
no small importance.
The Great Expectations foreword be-
gins, “I have been reading Dickens all my
life. 1 still read him. I will go on read-
ing him while I can hold a book” ; and
the essay reads like the compacting or
crystallising of many years’ meditation
on Dickens ; many years’ delight, many
years’ exasperation. Norman Lindsay
knows what he wants to say about
Dickens, and says it decisively:
In Great Expectations there is no hint
of an evasion, no pandering to cheap fen-*
timent, no false quantity anywhere in
motive, personality or emotion. One might
almost think that Dickens said to himself
here, “I will not squander in this novel
a mass of life-size characters to distract
attention from the hollow core of the
theme. I will not involve the reader in
secondary plots to hide my evasion of its
central motive. I will introduce no
humanitarian tracts to reform some public
institution. I will give myself one theme
and every facet of the novel will bear
directly on it. Finally, I will keep the
author strictly out of it.” In all that he
succeeded perfectly.
Dame Una, by contrast, Expresses
opinion in the vague terms, “some people
h.ave called Great Expectations the better
novel of the two”—the other here re-
ferred to is David Copperfield. All the
way through her Charles Dickens, it is,
“Some people have thought,” “Some
people believe,” “It is said,” “It is sup-
posed”—hardly ever what Dame Una
thinks or supposes. Certainly the work is
not critical in intention ; but biographers,
normally, when dealing with a literary
figure, make it part of their scheme to
assess his writing. Forster, after all,
frankly expressed his own • personal
views on Dickens’s novels: admirably in
his remarks on the ending of Great
Expectations, woefully, monstrously, un-
pardonably on The Old Curiosity Shop:
I am not acquainted with any story in
the language more adapted to strengthen
in the heart what most needs help and
encouragement, to sustain kindly and inno-
cent impulses, to awaken everywhere the
sleeping germs of good The quiet cour-
age under calamity, the purity that nothing
impure can soil, are so full of tender
teaching. Its effect as a mere piece of
art, too, considering the circumstances in
which I have shown it to be written, I
think noteworthy.
As “a mere piece of art.” As a mere
piece of art!
How difficult it is to impeach such a
man as Forster ; so full of impeccable
words, so eager with noble intentions, so
genuinely useful to Dickens in a business
way ; so hopelessly ignorant of the true
nature and function of art; so damaging,
so evil an influence upon the writer he
professed to love and serve. We know
what Dickens the artist thought of him,
for he savagely lampooned him as Pod-
snap, showing him as a bore and a prig.
Yet Dickens the man for many years
accepted his friendship, followed his
advice. When Forster praised Little
Nell and asked him, for his further de-
light, to “kill” her, and when Bulwer
Lytton asked for a happy ending to
Great Expectations Dickens might profit-
ably have recalled that Byron’s best
friends—-men of the world, too-implored
him not to publish the work on which
his whole reputation rests- -Don Juan. It
is the common experience of writers that
kind friends and relatives will knife their
art at any time for the sake of convention
and respectability ... a poor “kindness”
in the long run.
Little Nell is, of course, a fantasy. Her
adventures, as indeed Dame Una points
out, are utterly impossible—“the length
of the walks undertaken by the child and
her feeble companion the fact that,
luggageless, they could bed down in cot-
tages, barns or foundries and still look
clean and tidy.” There is something
sinister and repellent in the story if you
look at it realistically—that mad, dis-
honest, wretched old grandfather dragging
the child the length of England to an in-
evitable death from starvation and ex-
posure. But few of Dickens’s adjnirers
read it in that light. George Lewes
thought it “maudlin and unreal” ; but
Dame Una describes the more tvpical
reaction of Lord Jeffrey:
- Mrs. Henry Siddons, a neighbor and
friend of Lord Jeffrey, peeped into his
library and saw Jeffrey with his head on
•the table. He raised it with eyes suffused
with tears ... “I am a great goose to have
given way so, but I couldn’t help it. You’ll
be sorry to hear that little Nelly, Boz’s
little Nelly, is dead.”
Nell —“dear, patient, gentle, noble
Nell,” dear dead Nell —-was a kind of
beautiful dream to the Victorians. The
fantasy was surely akin to that of the
pre-Raphaelites, whose paintings of dead,
dying or ghostly women William Gaunt
summed up as “a beautiful escape” from
the ugliness of the Industrial Revolution.
Little Nell was a more sentimental escape
from the -same ugliness.
But Dickens, when he was true to his
genius, gloried in that ugliness. Quilp is
ugly and magnificent; Sally Brass is ugly
and magnificent; Silas Wegg is ugly and
magnificent; Squeers is ugly and mag-
nificent ; old Krook and Grandfather
Smallweed are ugly and magnificent;
Uriah Heep and Sairey Gamp are ugly
and magnificent. It was Dickens’s mission
as an artist to show, the wonder, the rich-
ness, the passionate and tumultuous
vitality of his period. He did this so
superbly that, next *to Shakspeare, he
seems in scope and splendor the greatest
of all English writers whether in verse or
prose ; for it is Life itself in his novels ;
he created, in Norman Lindsay’s termin-
ology, “an earth,”
And yet—who would think of prefac-
ing an appreciation of Shakspeare by an
attack? And who, with a feeling for
truth in art, can read one of Dickens’s
novels, unless it be Great Expectations,
without moments of shame for its
author? Even Pickwick —like Furphy’s
Such Is Life —is arch where it should be
honest; a lovable book, but not of the
vitality of Tom Jones. Dickens was false
to himself. It was not his business to kill
little girls to provide a beautiful escape
for Forster; not his business to evade,
falsify, distort, corrupt the picture of life
but to present it truthfully and with spirit.
Sentimentality and morbidity are alike
an attack on life: it was Dickens’s mis-
sion to affirm it.
It should not be imagined that be-
cause Norman Lindsay, in the midst of
his appreciation, attacks Dickens chiefly
for his lack of honesty in matters of love,
he is insisting that an author should
dwell on sex, or make it his only theme.
He has no quarrel with Scott, in whose
novels the love affair is usually trivial—
“ One can’t feel that it was a conscience
problem with him.” He says:
With Dickens it is quite another matter.
Women centralise and dominate most of
his novels. He was passionately obsessed
with the whole world of femininity. He
adored women. Where their sex content
is not touched on, his women are as alive
as Shakspeare’s. Indeed, Mrs. Gamp is
even a richer creation than Mistress
Quickly. But where the dramatic intensity
demanded that a woman should vindicate
the integrity of her sex, he falsified the
situation out of all relation to reality, or
to his own deliberate projection of its
drama.
And he goes on to point out —instanc-
ing, among other examples, Dickens’s
sentimentalising of Mr. Boffin in Our
Mutual Friend after he had shown that
gilded dustman to have been corrupted
by sudden wealth —that, “Not only
where the situation involves sex, but
wherever it conflicts with popular senti-
ment it is mutilated and defaced.” So
he concludes:
Having made that first, drastic concession
to the mob in relation to sex, he allowed
it to pervert nearly every other situation
involving human passion and personality.
Invariably, those situations are superbly
projected, so that their finality is inevitable.
Almost invariably that finality is twisted
into a falsification designed to gratify the
cheapest taste in fiction.
This seems, as far as it goes, incon-
testable. Any failure in honesty will de-
stroy, or at least very seriously mar, a
work of art; and to write truthfully of
sex, because of the extraordinary frenzies
the subject arouses, is of all honesties the
most difficult to maintain. And once a
man lies here he might as well falsify
everywhere; for truth has been thrown
overboard,
Norman Lindsay points out —a revela-
tion that will possibly be startling to
many readers of Dickens —-that nearly all
the gestures of love in the novels, the
pretty play of kisses and caresses, take
place between girl and girl, or father
and daughter, or brother and sister,
hardly ever between lover and lover. And,
reading Dame Una’s biography, the spec-
tacle of Bella Wilfer smothering her Pa
with kisses becomes all the more
astounding when one realises that she
was drawn from an actress who, pre-
sumably, smothered not her father but
Charles Dickens in affection. Dame Una’s
biography is based on the Nonesuch
Letters, published in 1938, and has a
good deal to say, in a quiet way, about
matters carefully hushed-up by Forster—
Dickens’s several love affairs and treat-
ment of his wife and family.
But far more dramatic than this new
information —important for the light it
throws on the element of hypocrisy in
Dickens’s work —is the old story Dame
Una retells of his public readings of his
novels; those amazing wooings of
hysterical audiences upon which Nor-
man Lindsay comments: “I cannot think
of anything so degrading as the spectacle
of Dickens reading his works in public,
so crowded on by the mob that they lay
on their bellies at his feet.”
What fascinates one in Dame Una’s
descriptions of the readings is not only
the mutual adoration of novelist and
audience that characterised the earlier
performances, sentimental or comic, but,
more, the • strangeness, the ferocity—
almost the mania—of the dramatisation
of the murder of Nancy in Oliver Twist;
a reading which frightened audiences and
perhaps Dickens himself, which he re-
peated more and more frequently till it
became something like an obsession, and
during which, it could be argued, the
loved, the adored Charles Dickens turned
in rage and torment on the public that
had made his fortune, gratified his vanity
and, as far as it was able, maimed him
as an artist. Dame Una leaves one with
the impression that, had he not died in
the midst of these public representations
of murder and while writing that dark
book Edwin Drood, Dickens would have
been hard put to it to maintain his
sanity:
There was more in this reading than
histrionic skill: there was the growing
power to hypnotise a number of people
simultaneously... .All the time his “atrocious
novelty” was getting more and more of a
hold on him. Out of four readings he
would repeat the murder three times, plead-
ing in excuse to Dolby, who saw how
deleterious were its effects, that it had be-
come “a kind of hobby”... .His, perform-
ance astonished the actors and actresses
present and made his own pulse jump from
72 to 112. It took ten minutes on a sofa
for him to get his breathing normal again.
Dame Una explains the flaws in
Dickens’s writing by the suggestion that
“the Victorian heart’’ was somehow dif-
ferent from our own. There is something
in the theory, for every age, no doubt,
has its fashions and something of the
fashion of the age will be found in the
work of most men writing in it. As the
modern fault in poetry is obscurantism
and in prose—swinging to the other ex-
treme from Victorianism —'brutality, so
the Victorian faults were prudery and
false sentiment. But there was neither
prudery nor sentimentality in Browning;
the modern mind has no quarrel with
Trollope; a great mind may be influenced
by but should not succumb to the fashion
of the age.
Dickens did not have the aristocratic
mind —that is perhaps as close as we
can get to a solution of the mystery
his betrayal of his own almost unparal-
leled genius. When his novels first
appeared he was attacked for the “vul-
garity” of writing about the common
people. That, of course, was' nonsense;
but it may have been another way of
saying that sometimes there was in his
writing a real and intolerable vulgarity, a
reflection of the suburban mind. “How
far Dickens was the dupe of his own fal-
sifications it is impossible to say,” Norman
Lindsay writes. “He had enormous
powers of self-deception, and appeared to
believe in any pose that appealed to his
vanity.”
Dickens sought popularity, sought it
feverishly, so much is certain from the
story of his life; and he valued too
highly the opinions of friends who, from
the point of view of art, were worse than
worthless. Feeling some lack in himself,
he repined much at his poverty-stricken
childhood ; but Burns and Davies were
poor men and yet natural aristocrats. To
quote again from Norman Linday's
essay:
His destiny did to him the most damn-
ably corrupting thing it can do to any
artist; it gave him instantaneous success
and popularity with his first novel With
a sigh of relief we turn to the one novel
in which Dickens affirmed the pact of
creative integrity: Great Expectations.
The publication of this novel will be
a step forward in Australian publishing:
a recognition of the fact that the world’s
classics are ours as well as Europe’s.
There have been a few other reprints of
classics at different times, bift nothing so
elaborate as this. The shade of Dickens
may be hard hit by some of the criticism
in the preface; but the acute analysis of
the whole mass of his work, the high
praise, the 46 illustrations in Norman
Lindsay’s crisp black-and-white wash
technique, and the publication of the
novel may all be taken as an act of
homage to a novelist who, when all has
been said, remains what he called him-
self, “The Sparkler,” “The Inimitable.”
S.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
wm** f
Built for long life and hard wear, these saddles are all that is
required to give comfort to the experienced or inexperienced
rider. Combined with their sturdy good looks is the superior
workmanship which you will find in all goods purchased from
"The Senior Store."
HIGH GRADE RIDING SADDLES. Built on Fouright Steel Plated
Tree, selected Kip Leather, best workmanship. Type, Stock, Kemp
or Poley. Park with Serpentine or English Knee Pads, Polo Saddle,
with False Knee Pads. All saddles mounted with Girth and
Surcingle, Stirrup Leathers and Stirrup Irons. Price £l6/16/-
Bridles. 1 inch Barcoo Bridles 24/6
N.P. Bradoon Bits
3/6
Sg>
• v*
:■:■:■ ' .
"KEMP SADDLES". Kip seat and pads,
Kip flaps and skirts, Victoria facing,
leather points to panel, extended girth
straps, solid gullet steel plated Tree.
Excellent quality and finish. Complete
with Fittings, including Folded Leather
Girth, U inch Stirrup Leather, If inch Ring
Surcingle and 4 Bar Stirrup Irons. Price,
complete £*l6/36/-
c?o
"RICHMOND RIVER" PARK SADDLE.
Kip seat and pads, London colour, Kip
flaps and skirts, Victoria facing, leather
points to panel, extended girth straps,
steel-plated tree. Price, £l6/16/-
Complete.
Saddlery, Sporting Goods and Fishing Tackle
delivered free within our Delivery Area.
V'
'PHt)NE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., .SYDNEY
Stock Whips and Thongs
%
Stock Whips and Thongs, com-
plete 16 Plait Crop, 8 x 16 Thong,
price 45/9, 12 Plait Crop,
8 x 12 Thong, price 39/6;
8 Plait Crop, BxB Thong, price
34/6; 8 Plait Crop, 7xB Thong,
price 32/-; 8 Plait Crop,
6xB Thong, price 29/-. Other
sizes on application.
KANGAROO STOCK THONGS.
plaited belly, Turk's head at
keeper, snake shape with fall.
Race
Saddles
Race Saddles, all-over calf,
unmounted, price S> 12/"/“
Saddle Cloths
mm
1
Illustrated above —with em-
broidery (horseshoes, whips
and scrolls). Price, ea. 18/6
Saddle Cloths, plain, Blue or
Red Bar Kersey, bound with
Navy, Orange or White braid.
Price, each 13/6
Boot Lasts
Boot Last, Cast Iron, Three
Feet. Price ... 6/6
Stamped Steel Two Feet
and Heel, price, each 6/3
Boot Last, Cast Iron, two
Feet and Heel, each 4/8
• Saddlery Department—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.


¥ou arrive "FRESH AS THE MORNING"
WHEN YOU ny
7
£
I
a
m
m
y
Air travel with TAA is refreshing and clean. Free
of the discomforts of surface travel, you relax in
a deep lounge chair. Soon you are at your destina-
tion, fresh and unruffled, ready to make the most
of the extra hours ... or days . • . TAA has added
to your holiday.
For further particulars
see daily classified columns
ĥ
- ?u&Zta£Ca, e£ ]vt£m&a
Sydney Melbourne M * „ 6 Flights Daily £5 10 6
Sydney Canberra .. » „ « 2 Flights Daily £1 18 3
Sydney—Brisbane .. „ „ „ 3 Flights Daily £6 16
Sydney Adelaide ........ 2 Flights Daily £lO 8 3
Sydney Perth .. H M H „ Daily £25 1 6
Sydney—Hobart £lO 16 9
Sydney Launceston £9 7 0
Children under 4 yrs. free <1 per adult pass.), under 15 years, half fare.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRLINES COMMISSION
H-16-46
From public house..,
i
■
m
m
m I
m *
i
m
m
m
V
m
32
■m
mm
GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, NEWCASTLE
... to modern hotel The old-fashioned public house served the
needs of an earlier day, but now it is giving way to the luxuriously appointed
and well-planned modern hotel. Important features of the present-day hotel
include comfortable bedroom accommodation, a good dining service and spacious
bars and lounges. In addition to convenient drinking conditions for the general
public, every consideration is given to the needs of tourists and guests. The
improved standard of n.s.w. hotels is due, in no small measure, to Tooth’s pre-war
reconstruction policy, which will be resumed as soon as conditions permit.
in h
II w is
S V D INI E Y
Mahers of Good Beer since 1835
ON REFERENDUM DAY MARK YOUR BALLOT PAPER 3,2,1 FROM THE TOP FOR 10 O'CLOCK CLOSINO
T.6.24A
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Words of “The Toast of Cricket.” —3936.
To buy pair Proxar lenses 1 and 2 in puise,
and Duto lense No. 1. —3937.
Used Christmas cards to distribute among
hospitalised children. —3938.
Information Sought.
(1) On what grounds can a man sue for
divorce in N. S. Wales? (2) In what cases and
on what grounds can damages be claimed by
either party? (3) Who pays cost of action?
(1) (a) Adultery; (b) desertion for three years
and upwards; (c) wife habitual drunkard and
has neglected domestic duties for three years
and upwards; (d) imprisonment for more than
three years and still in prison under com-
muted sentence for capital crime or sentence to
penal servitude for seven years or upwards; (e)
conviction within one year previously for
having attempted to murder petitioner or of
having assaulted him with intent to do grievous
bodily harm'; (f) during the year previously
has repeatedly assaulted and cruelly beaten the
petitioner; (g) failure to comply With decree
for restitution of conjugal rights. (2) In cases
of adultery. (3) Husband pays costs generally
except in cases of adultery, when co-respondent
pays them.
* * *
(1) What is the best age for worming
puppies? (2) How to worm before weaning
when starvation is not possible? (3) Where
can I get a safe and effective vermifuge? (4)
When is it advisable to worm again in the case
of pups wormed between four and six weeks?
(5) Suitable diet for Cairn and Scotch Terrier
pups in QTand?
(1) Between four and six weeks of age, unless
definite signs of worms are seen before. In
which case they can be wormed as early as two
weeks. (2) The bitch should be taken away for
one night, the vermifuge given early in the
morning and, after the lapse of two hours, the
bitch returned to puppies. (3) D. Moore,
16 Bridge-street, Sydney. (4) It is not de-
sirable to worm again until they are about three
months old. Wormseed mixture, such as is
given to young pups, is not then effective. The
best is one grain of areca nut to which is
added one-eighth of a grain of Santonine in
a capsule for each pound weight ' of dog,
followed by warm milk in half an hour, and
a tablespoonful of castor oil in one hour. (5)
The dog should have raw beef once daily as
his principal meal, preferably at night. For,
young dogs between the ages of six weeks
and nine months additional meals may be given
at 11 a.m, and 4 p.m., consisting of yolk of_
egg and milk with broken wholemeal dog bis- -
euit, dividing one yolk for the two meals.
♦ * Jji :fe
(I) Record gallons of milk from cow in Aus-
tralia ? (2) Record average f(om champion
herd?
(1) The record number of gallons of milk
produced by a cow in Australia is credited to
“Melba 15th of Darbarlara,” who under an
official record produced 3157.5 gallons in 365
days. During this period she produced 1614.11 b.
of butterfat, which is a world record. She was
a cow of the Milking Shorthorn breed, and
was owned by the Scottish Australian Invest-
ment Cos., Darbarlara, N.S.W., and her record
was made in June, 1923. to June, 1924. (2)
Figures for the champion herd are not avail-
able, but some herds have been known to have
averaged from SOOgals. io 900 gals. per cow per
year. The herd of Mr. L. Smart, of Camden,
has averaged over 900 gals. per cow from 21
cows in a year.
=F * * ¥
Location of the yellow-bellied flying opos-
sum ? Is it smaller than the greater flying
opossum? What is its coloring?
It inhabits the coastal ranges of N. S. Wales
and Victoria, and is smaller than the greater
flying opossum, the head and body being 12in.
long and the tail 13in. It has long fur, brown
on the upper surface, and variously marked
with orange and black; ihe under-surface is
orange. The long tail is very bushy, especially
at the base.
* * * *
What is the difference between minutes of
narration and resolution ?
An example of a minute of narration is the
following: “The secretary reported that he had
purchased the books, typewriter and stationery
authorised at the previous meeting.” The fol-
lowing is an example of a minute of resolution:
“Resolved that we accept the invitation to be
represented in the protest against the censor-
ship.”
* * * *
Particulars of a book of handy hints the
profits from the sale of which will be devoted
to the welfare of blinded soldiers?
The book, Handy Farm and Home Devices
and How to Make Them, by J. V. Bartlett,
has over 350 pages and contains more than
1500 ideas and 1700 illustrations. It is given
to those who donate £2 2s. or more to the
N.S.W. Blinded Servicemen’s Welfare Trust,
27 Jamieson-street, Sydney.
* * * *
Are penguins to be found in Australian
waters ?
Several forms occasionally wander as far
north as Tasmania and southern Australia; but
only one species, the Little or Fairy Penguin
( Eudyptula minor), is resident in Australian
seas, breeding in great numbers on some of the
islands off southern coasts, and ranging north
as far as Moreton Bay on the east coast and
the Swan River on the west.
* ¥ * *
How to polish cedar?
If wood is in natural condition smooth it
down with fine glasspaper and finest emery,
wipe clean and apply pure raw linseed oil, using
the merest trace at a time and rubbing well
till a high polish is attained. Cedar needs no
coloring and ihe oil feeds as well as polishes.
For greater brilliance finish with a good wax
polish.
* * * *
How to make horehound beer?
Put into 4gal. kero.-tin 3 gals, water,' ilb.
bops and £lb. (or 2 good handfuls) of freshly-
plucked horehound (tips and young leaves).
Boil till leaves sink (20 minutes), add 3 lemons
(sliced) and leave till cold. Strain, put into
bottles, cork and wire down. Ready in two
weeks.
* * * *
Method of tanning kangaroo skins with
wattle-bark solution?
Crush wattle-bark as fine as possible, put it
in a wooden, earthenware or concrete vessel
and fill with boiling water. When cool pour
off into a similar container, add boiling watel
to cover and leave to cool. Pour off watel
and repeat. These three fillings, all mixed in
the second container, are the right strength.
Soak skins till soft in clean fresh water (24
to 48 hours), scrape off all fat, put in tub
and soak in solution for four days to a week,
airing them half-hour each day. Dry in draughty
shed, rubbing now and then to soften. Trim
with sharp knife.
Brief Answers.
T.A.: The importation of tobacco, cigarettes
and cigars of non-sterling origin for the pur-
pose of resale is totally prohibited... J.C.D.:
N.S.W. Blinded Servicemen’s Welfare Trust,
27 Jamieson-street, Sydney... .P.S.: Write
N.S.W. Dept, of Public Health, 52 Bridge-street,
Sydney, for booklet “Get Rid of the Rats”....
A.H.K.: Unable to find any trace of a Thor-
vald Weitmeyer, a Danish carpenter who
migrated to Australia in 1870-71. There is in
the Mitchell Library a book entitled Missing
Friends, Being the Adventures of a Danish Emi-
grant in Queensland 1871-1880 (Lond., Unwin,
1892). The writer of this book, which appears
factual, was a carpenter (p. 120). No record
that this book was translated into Danish, but
it is possible that a Danish edition exists. The
only book we know with the title Men of the
Jungle is the work by lon L. Idriess, which was
translated into Swedish in 1938 M.A.M.: It
is necessary to send specimens for identification,
as your description is not in accordance with
the known facts of the habits of crickets...-
N.J.H.: Write to any of the larger shipping
firms H.X.H.: Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, have books on both
subjects C.R.H.: Cannot trace his address.
W.H.: The ShoalhaVen River is 220 miles
long A.M.D.: Thomas Williams and Charles
Montgomery, charged witih wounding a police-
man with intent to mumer on April 3, 1894,
were found guilty, and \yere executed in Syd-
ney on May 31, 1894... .F.M.H.: The “Ameri-
can Book Trade Journal’'! (publishers’ weekly]
issues a list of what it Terms national best-
sellers each month. These (lists are divided into
10 fiction and 10 non-fiction, and are compiled
on a percentage basis from), the reports of 68
booksellers throughout America M.S. : The
specimen is a green tree [snake and is not
venomous. It feeds on mice and other
warm-blooded creatures, but) frogs are a much-
sought-after diet. These snaikes are well-known
throughout Eastern Australia and some of the
Pacific Islands R.M.T.: iThe quotation is
from Francis Adams’s “Gordon’s Grave”..••
E.S.: Sir James Martin, beprn 1820, Premier
and subsequently Chief Justice of N. S. Wales,
died November 4, 1886 yR.B.: Dialect is
essentially local; a dialect is Uhe variety of a
language that prevails in a district, with local
peculiarities of vocabulary, pronunciation and
phrase... .W.M.: The first ’issue of The
Bulletin appeared on January 31, 1880....
A.F.: Pamphlets on the subject dean be obtained
from the N.S.W. Agricultural IDept V.H.:
Write Tyrrell’s: Bookshop, 2811 George-street,
Sydney, J


Missing Friends.
WILL JAMES WILLIAM WALKER, a son of Joseph
Howard Walker, deceased, late of Heidelberg, Vic-
toria, last heard of in New South Wales, or anyone
knowing of his whereabouts, please communicate with
the BALLARAT TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY CO., LTD., of 101 Lydiard Street North,
Ballarat, Victoria?
; FLEMING, Dorothy Agnes Annie, born 1908 County
Antrim, North Ireland, arrived Australia 1925, last
heard of at Wentworth Falls, New South Wales, and
any person knowing her whereabouts or death, please
communicate re estate PAUL HARPER FLEMING,
deceased, with PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney. ,
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are; —
12 months £14 0
6 12 6
3 „ ...... 70
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:—
12 months .. .. .. 16 0
6 .. 8 0
3 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£18 0
Tested and found correct! Over long dis.
tances at high speed Clyde-built locomotives
draw Clyde-built carriages in perfect safety.
The train lighting, too, is a product of Clyde
heavy duty plates.
CLYD
ho
<t0
SAPETY
F 1 R ST
Drive as ,Y ou
would have the
OTHER fellow
drive!
BATTERIES
The efficiency of the Clyde product is also emphasised
in Clyde Batteries for cars, trucks, buses, radio and
home lighting. You can expect abundant power and
long life from these tested units — and you get it!
An advt. of The Clyde Engineering Co. Ltd.. Granville, N.S.Wj
Merchandise-Sales Division:
SYDNEY. BRISBANE, MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
END your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do bard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and H days’ free
trial offer. No obligation,
THE BOUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
f
A
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a courses _ .
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BABKO Iodine Dog Soap.
ħ
h
BARKO
SOLO
CONDITION" POWDERS 1/fi
SKIN EOTION 2/9
IODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LID.
4
announce the opening of their
NEWLY ENLARGED TECHNICAL BOOK DEPT.
■I
m
mm.
Ik
m
m
9R wSw
mm
■
■ .'
sSssSs
invite you ... to visit this new department and acquaint yourself with the unique facilities offered.
If unable to call, write or phone us so that we can attend to your requirements. Mail orders are given
prompt and careful attention.
m
.
STAIRS . .
Go down the new stairway just inside
the front entrance.
LIGHTS . . .
Over 400 feet of fluorescent tubing
gives daylight reading without the
unpleasant heat associated with in-
candescent lights.
COUNTERS . . .
The many counters display all the
latest books, and help to make book
buying a pleasure.
SHELVES ...
Modern cream enamelled steel, shelves
with a maximum height of 1 7 feet
place all books within easy reach and
within comfortable eye level, thus
ensuring quick reference to any title
required.
The whole field of technology is covered by our very large and well-selected
stock. Books for students and workers in all industries, plus books on all
hobbies, are displayed in this spaciotfc department.
iH
THE SERVICE OUR TECHNICAL BOOK DEPT. OFFERS..
• To supply lists of books in stock
on any technical subject.
• To procure from overseas, at no
extra cost, any book not obtain-
able in Australia.
• To arrange a 30-day credit ac-
count without any difficulty.
® To enter your name on ouy mail-
ing list for advice of any books
on subjects in which you are
interested.
• To give mail orders prompt and
careful attention; where possible
to despatch them the same day.
• To make book buying a pleasure
with our well-trained staff to
help you.
• To maintain the largest and best
selection of Technical Books in
Australia.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD., 89 CASTEEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
M. 5.8.: Type; send one at a time; andoid
linger not too long in that gulf of gloom and
doom Delta: You’re just strumming
T.S.G.; A long way after Milton... .B.J.G.:
Suggest some other journal? Send it to any
paper you .don’t like P.M.: Hackneyed
P.A.F.; Barrowman is indeed “wobbly”
B.M.R.: Exiled... .R.D.: Featherweight
K.L.K.: “Lightning” lively; the rest stilted
-Alexandra: “From the Bridge” seems to have
been run over by trams, trucks and trains
Anon: “Enclosed is a poem. It is lousy by
any standards.” So it is, so it is G.N.:
The rhymes, how atrocious; the sentiments,
how admirable: —
.D.H.R.: Send stamps if you want them
returned. Not enough willow-wood in “Nine
Willows”... .A.C.P.: Try elsewhere next time
it is “September—glorious Spring!” L.T.:
Not a chance J.D.: Usual remarks about
pioneers J.W.: Come again A.8.L.:
“B Class” is B class E.1.D.: “Could you
give me a rough idea of the material you would
publish?” Why not have a look at the material
we do publish? S.K.C.: “Cycle” wants a
few rhymes to make it spin like a bicycle
J.K.F.: “The Passing of an Anguished Mood”
has passed on, leaving behind it a mood of
great anguish Dawn Dale: Sunset, Dawn.
D.McC.: Come in and chant, as a terrible
winning to all concerned:
D.S.B.: Young man who ran away with
his ma-ln-law at least showed courage of a
sort M.E.R.: Just another harrowing miss-
ing-child story J.J.: Of course the outsider
won. They always do in that class of story.
H.G.: Your cattle duffers strike us as
being Pitt-street bushmen E.S.H.: Too sweet
and pretty for our robust pages G.R.: You
can write in a fashion, but you take too long
to get to the point W.T.: Not wanting “A
Tale of the Black Market,” not even at cut
rates C.A.; Stories written to “while away
a weary hour” seldom turn out any good
P.N.C.: Bank robbers appear to have walked
out of the pages of a Yankee detective magazine.
L.H.: Finished up ori the wrong side of
the border G.P.8.; Your cardsharper is
shuffling his pack in the w.p.b C.S.T.:
If there is anything we dislike more than the
ppoi*-girl-rich-b'oy yarn it is the rich-girl-poor-
boy tale S.A.: Glad to hear that “beer
flowed from dawn to dusk and half through
the night at the Muggawilla pub” J.S.McL.:
You can’t just dash them off like that
Your story of the philanthropic
millionaire who, every Christmas, went dis-
guised into the slum areas and distributed
largesse had the Religious Editor in tears
W.8.H.: “The stranger, with a movement so
fast that his hands were just a blur, drew his
six-shooter and fired. When the smoke lifted
the outlaw was lying in the dust as dead as a
doornail.” We have a shot-gun loaded with
buckshot which is used for keeping these fast-
drawing, straight-shooting chivalrous strangers
out of the place T.D.V.: Oversentimental
and unconvincing... .R.D.: The only com-
mendable feature about your effort is the hand-
writing.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.M.: The only corner it will fill is one in
the basket F.L.D. : Not enough difference
between the concrete gatepost and the bloke
leaning against it C.N.: Drawings betray
an untrained hand; humor as flat as week-
bee- L.K.: Your sketch suggests that
anew breed of horse has sprung up in your
part of the world G.H.Y.: Use Indian, not
violet, ink; use white drawing-paper, not colored
stationery... .P.W.: Wash drawings are too
uniformly and drearily grey L.F.S.: Pawn-
broker and kerdsene-in-the-fire-extinguisher gag
pensioned off long ago R.F.: You belong
to the scratch-as-scratch-can school M.E.M.:
More like dead trees than live men J.D.:
Nice little fashion-plate; we prefer something
with more punch N.H.S.: Poor drawing
illustrating Homing Drunk Joke No. 257
H. 8.: An ambitious effort, but it fell far short
of your intentions S.R.: Gags belong to
another age D.F.D.: You can’t foist those
freaks upon us... .C.H.8.: A few years at
an art school recommended T.H.M.: We
can well believe that it is ja first attempt
R. : It’s time that damsel learned to bolt
her bathroom d00r... .A.W.S.: Those nags
look like strays from a merry-go-round
NX.: We thought that you had made a
resolution to give up art in 1947 C.J.G.:
That Indian-rope-trick jest has seen print be-
fore L.S.F.: One quick glance was sufficient
to decide their fate A.8.M.: No plate of
bones for your .talking cattle-dog F.W.N-t -
We shall try to struggle on without the aid
of your masterpieces J.M.McM.; Boxing
kangaroo took the count in the first round
A.S.P.: Send a magnifying glass along with
the next batch of miniatures you submit
J.D.L.: “Editors have been rejecting my art
work for the past five years.” Afraid they’ll
continue to do so for a long time to come....
G.A.: Our political cartoons are drawn by
staff artists, but we are always pleased to re-
ceive ideas for them N.F.: Camel and eye
of a needle gag has been worked to death....
S. : Wash drawings too muddy for successful
reproduction C.M.P.: There is many a kin-
dergarten pupil who could show you points.
. ...R.H.F.: Would like to know what it is
all about... .E. 8.: Conversation between kooka-
burras fell on deaf ears A.L.J.: It missed
by the width of a continent J.O’G.; You
had better give the game away.
Hail to thee, Sheahan,
Who from the green
~ And rolling plains of Yass,
Didst cry aloud,
As from a cloud,
“It shall not come to pass!”
Can we in love
Honor our Gov.,
Such an one as McKell?
That Yarralumla
Should be brought so much humbler
Didst raise a mighty knell.
JOURNEY OF A SOCIAL CLIMBER.
The scouts of heaven grabbed her at the end
And caught her by her new-set hair, and messed
The famous sleekness of her head. “Let go!”
She screamed, “You thugs! I have to be, at noon,
At lunch with brigadiers and such. Defend
Me, someone!” But the social columns stressed
Affairs of shallow life, and let her blow J
Through starlit winds unsung. And very soon
The'thieving ice had pinched her looks, and left
Sophistication, which a scornful scout
With angry laughter slung to space. She cursed
Him, and his cobbers bashed her name, bereft
The soul of dross, then watched it spin about
A round and empty bubble, quickly burst.


The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop, the
MARS Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from'high-speed cutting tools. All essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - - all gear teeth are generated.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
ħ
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.-Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd;
Victoria— Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne ;
Q’land— lntercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane; W.A.-The
Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth ; Tasmania— Charles Davies,
Ltd., Hobart; N.Z.—Jfotor Specialities, Ltd., Auckland;
Calcutta— Boss Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.; Bombay
Province-R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
I
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Qld. op
“Mebhanite”
Metals
f USE Nl/SGET
/rs the finest
\ rum /mow
) FOR A
BRILLIANT
\ FINISH/"
ftfc
m
w
ti
NUGGET
SHOE POLISH
a
JTHE DHtLY
I DOSE OF
)JVUGGET
( does /r/
NP46/SQ.
PRIVATE AMNIG,V.C.
By Geoff Bingham
AARON, a man of many years, is also
a man of many children, and that
is why, perhaps, he drowses this
summer morning, nodding over his
emery wheel in the small backyard of
the siding cottage.
Any moment now Aaron may wake
slowly to life, either to answer a yell to
open the gate or to make certain that, if
a train approaches, the siding gate is
closed. Afterwards he will subside again,
muttering to himself and drowsing as
before.
If Aaron is a little tired, then it is not
to be wondered at, for a man who has
reared eighteen children is apt to be
weary and not expected to be agile, and
generally Aaron is unable to snatch a
great deal of sleep during the day, be-
cause of the children who tumble about
the cottage and the small backyard. This
morning, however, it seems the heat has
sent all Wirril Creek into a gentle torpor,
a warm lazy daze which stills the hand of
Aaron and commits him to restfulness
over his bench of mechanical appliances.
Come evening and the cool creeping
down from the foothills, and Aaron will
be awake, • his emery wheel spitting a
splurge of bright sparks ; and Aaron will
bend over it like a bow, sharpening this
tool or that, haaking a nicety of a blunted
chisel or chipped plane blade.
What Aaron thinks from time to time
is difficult to say, for Aaron, at any time,
seems a little dazed. How easy, then, to
put it to the account of his many chil-
dren, but such a jibe is cheap and too
facile. Aaron, in his own way, is proud
of his tribe, and will not countenance
joking in the matter. Only once has he
been known to ask for assistance, and
that was in the matter of his income-
tax returns, when he was reassured by
Mr. Armstrong, the local postmaster,
that he owed the Government nothing.
“In fact,” Mr. Armstrong told him,
“I’m sure the Government must owe
you something.”
AARON’S gnarled hand, qn this warm
morning, droops over the still wheel,
his eyes are half-closed, his lips parted
as he breathes heavily and slowly.
He does not hear the same Mr. Arm-
strong as he walks tappingly down the
road, neatly happy and trim from his
Post Office Store.
“Mr, Amnig! Mister Amnig!” calls
Armstrong, his voice high with excite-
ment. “Mister Amnig!” The excite-
ment mounts to a point of falsetto.
Aaron wakes into life, brushing his
thick hand across his lined face. He
stares somewhat stupidly at the wheel be-
fore him, seeing it in some queer myster-
ious way as a symbol, a habit man has
when he awakes, and then more con-
sciously he hears the postmaster’s voice.
“One minute. One minute,” he
grumbles, “I’ll open ’em for you.”
“Not >the gates. Not the gates,” says
Armstrong with all excitement. *Tt isn’t
the gates today, Mister Amnig.”
~ “It isn’t the gates today.” That phrase
runs over and over in Aaron’s mind.
Another symbol perhaps, “It isn’t the
gates today.” Well, then,
what is it if it isn’t the
gates?
“It’s a telegram,” says
Armstrong, and his clean
slim fingers have it held at
both sides, stretched out,
the news written plainly
for the eyes; of the world to read,
Aaron stares down at the telegram a
trifle suspiciously, perhaps, but mainly
wonderingly.
Armstrong stages down at it, too. His
eyelids quiver somewhat, his blue eyes
clear and keen, whilst his lips keep mov-
ing as though they would voice a great
piece of news.
“He’s got the V.C.”
“Eh?” says Aaron. He peers up at
Armstrong, puzzled. He feels he might
be asleep himself, and this postmaster a
partly unwelcome figure in his dream.
There is something too energetic about
the dapper and tensed form of the mes-
senger.
“The V.C?”
“Yes, the V.C. Harold’s got it for
bravery.”
“Ah,” says Aaron slowly. This he can
understand, although what Harold has
ever wanted with bravery he does not
quite know.
“The V.C., that’s the Victoria Cross,
isn’t it?”
“It certainly is,” says the young post-
master, “the finest decoration a man can
have.” Armstrong himself takes a pace
down the road, some sort of an imaginary
Victoria Cross swinging from his white
silk shirt.
“The best a man can have,” he says.
Aaron says nothing. He stands in the
sun, pondering the slip of paper, the
words of the postmaster and the son
who has won this award. It all seems so
much of a jumble to him, that he would
prefer to bp sleeping, or at least drows-
ing again, ifi, the sanctuary of his work-
shop.
“Missus’ll be pleased to hear it, I’m
sure,” he says.
“Of course she will,” says Armstrong.
He sweeps energetically around on one
heel, his arms swinging towards the low
blue hills. “We will all be proud to hear
it.” He adds “I’m proud to hear it,
Mister Amnig.” He says earnestly “I’m
proud to have known Harold.”
“H’m.”
Aaron wants Armstrong to take him-
self away. After that he will tell Harold’s
mother and that will be that. The young
man, however, does not wish to go. He
savors the vastness of his news and would
advise Aaron concerning his new-found
fame.
“To be the father of a VC!” He is
still thinking in exclamations.
“H’m,” says Aaron again after a time.
He moves from one foot to another.
Apparently mild, Aaron is inwardly a
man with strong feelings, but the gift of
expressing them has been denied him. He
says, then, plainly, “Well, I’ll tell the
missus.”
He has committed himself to going to
the house, and moves towards it. The
young man stares after him, and Aaron,
shuffling, holds the piece of limp paper.
At the house, however, a faint surge of
excitement goes through him, and this
irritates him. His voice shrills a trifle as
he calls impatiently “Mum! Mum,
where are you?”
Mrs. Aaron, when she appears, is cer-
tainly not prepared for such news. She
has been dozing on the sun-strewn
verandah, facing the railway, and pers-
piration beads her flushed face. She
blinks at Aaron and then says “Well,
what is it now?”
“Here.” He hands her the paper. She
stares at it and then hands it back to
him. “What does it all mean?” she asks.
Aaron takes the telegram from her,
peers at it, turns it over and says, finally,
“Young Harold’s gone and got a Vic-
toria Cross.”
“Well, now,” says Mrs. Aaron. She
cannot, for a moment, believe that, but
after a second’s thought she realises she
knew it all the time.
“If ever anyone was going to get the
Victoria Cross it was our Harold,” she
says triumphantly.
“Don’t take no notice of that Arm-
strong feller,” Aaron warns her. “He’s
still standing up there on the road.”
“They’ll make him a corporal now,”
says Mrs. Aaron happily.
Aaron shakes his head. “I don’t think
they’ll do that —not now that the war’s
over.”
“Then,” demands Mrs. Aaron with
triumph, “how can he get the Victoria
Cross if the war’s over?”
“I don’t know about that,” says Aaron.
He pauses a moment. “I don’t care,
either.” He turns and stumps up the yard
towards his emery wheel and bench and
the coolness of the workshop, Arm-
strong, watching him, walks away with a
certain degree of disappointment register-
ing on his face.
WHILE Aaron sleeps the news whirls
about Wirril Creek. Party lines are
ever aids to gossip, and it is flung far
and wide about Harold Amnig and his
V.C.
“Which one was that?” is the usual
comment. “I never could tell who was
who in that batch.”
“Harold,” says another. “You know,
the white-faced one with the dark hair
and skinny legs.”
“All seemed the same to me.”
But after a time Harold is pin-pointed,
and there are confessions, a spate of
them, all along the party lines.
“I always picked him out of the bunch.
Seemed the only one with much go in
him. What can you expect when there
are so many?”
These tales are but partly true. Harold,
of all the boys, might have seemed the
quietest; and yet he was normal enough,
foxing with the boys, rabbitting and play-
ing cricket on the railway line between
the coming of the trains. But such
simple living only takes on symbolism
when fame comes. Harold had been,
before the war, an ordinary youth, then,
when war came, had sprouted into
premature manhood, gone away to a
call-up, come home on a few leaves and
finally gone north.
Andy, the eldest, had got himself made
a prisoner in Malaya, which, to Mr. and
Mrs, Aaron’s way of thinking, had they
expressed themselves, was of little use,
Ron and Gerald, the two younger than
Andy, had seen action in the Middle
East and then New Guinea. The re-
mainder of the Amnig family were still
at Wirril Creek, sprinkled about the
district, as helps on farms or actually at
the siding cottage, filling the bedrooms
and spilling on to the verandahs.
A GREAT flourish of trumpets is abroad
in Wirril Creek and through the entire
Coolbucca Shire. War may have ended,
but Wirril Creek has sprung into fame,
since it has now been proved that from
the local pastures and the low cool hills
may come as good as any in the world.
There is plenty of talking about welcom-
ing Harold home, and then it is no
longer “Harold,” but “Private Amnig,
V.C.” ; which, it is understood, is the
correct manner of addressing your hero.
Even to Aaron Harold is called “Pri-
vate Amnig, V.C.,” and it only leaves the
old man bewildered and angry. His anger
subsides, however, as he forgets the whole
foolish affair. And then Harold himself
comes home, not by train, as so many
anticipate—they with their brass band
ready—but by truck, dropped quietly in
the centre of Wirril Creek and not recog-
nised by anyone, since soldiers in green
are not uncommon. The rector’s wife
is the first to learn the news on her
monthly visit.
Says Mrs. Aaron: “Harold’s home.
Isn’t that good news? And not a bit
different.”
“Ah,” says the good wife of the rector.
“You’d think it would change them,
wouldn’t you?” says Mrs, Aaron. “But
not my Harold.”
She might have gone on saying “Not
my Andy, not my Gerry, not my Ron,”
for they had all came back to the siding
cottage in apparent ignorance of rehabili-
tation problems.
The Welcome Home, then, is complete,
and the arrangements that have been
made are many and exacting, all leading
towards the one point and the same day.
There have been public meetings, these
resulting in committees and sub-commit-
tees, so that sports have been arranged, a
kind of a gymkhana, food has been ob-
tained, advertisements have appeared, as
though word of mouth would not suffice
in Wirril Creek, and the Coolbucca
““Guardian” has printed reams about
“Our local boy. Private Amnig, V.C.”
As a result of these meetings, commit-
tees and sub-committees a public holiday,
in, the Shire of Coolbucca, has been pro-
claimed. The local member has been
asked to be the main speaker, and the
rector has offered to preside. The matter
of subscription has been attended to,
and in no tardy manner.
No, all things taken into consideration,
Private Amnig, V.C., is listed for a fair
sort of celebration.
When the day dawns it is Aaron who
must be constantly opening the gate for
the cars who insist on crossing. There
are buses, too, great lumbering vehicles
laden with cheering children, young men
and young women and old Diggers who
are ruminating their years of sentiment
and memories, chewing the cud of old
and jialf-forgotten days. With them are


their wives, the Red Cross helpers and,
of course, members of the committees
and sub-committees. It is to them Aaron
opens the gates, as though it might be
any ordinary day, and indeed the business
of gate-opening and gate-shutting con-
cluded, he retires to his den of a work-
shop to seek peace.
Wirril Creek, then, is a festive scene.
There are stalls of drinks and stalls of
food. There are races and games, shi-
acking and fun-making, both on the
sports ground and across the river, where
the young couples wander in scrub or he
on the sloping banks. It is a great day
for the Wirril Creekers.
BEFORE dark, as dusk hazes the blue
hills, Aaron bestirs himself. He
leaves his workshop, regretfully, perhaps,
and makes his way to the house. He
scrubs his face and hands vigorously, puts
on a clean shirt and a tie with it. He
brushes his greying hair, puts on his coat
and hat and waits for Mrs. Aaron. She
emerges, fully and properly dressed for
the occasion, since there shall be no
“letting down” of her Harold.
Aaron’s pace towards the Memorial
Hall is stiff and awkward. He is re-
minded of the many times he has gone
towards the small church for this or that
christening. Now it is another, a more
fearful sort of christening; a baptism,
you might say, into the life of a hero.
The three soldier-brothers act as a sort
of bodyguard and guard-of-honor to
their brother. Andy is there, having re-
turned from Malaya and prison. At his
homecoming the trumpets blew moder-
ately. At the homecoming of Ron and
Gerald, both survivors of the Borneo
show, the trumpets scarcely tooted.
Harold, the hero, tensed and white as
ever beneath his hat, braves the crowds
but wishes his hat might hide him. Then
they enter the hall.
There is great merriment in the hall,
that happy restlessness that crowns a fes-
tive day. There has been discovered this
day. a great hoard of goodwill, and that
hoard has been exploited and distributed
in no mean manner. Now, as Harold
enters the hall, the young folk realise
he has changed little, and their former
awe changes to a sudden inrushing affec-
tion, so much so that they shout noisily
“Ah, there, Harold” or “Good old
Harold,” and try to catch his eye, to have
a salute answered personally, so great in
the human heart is an aching for fame.
Harold, sweating in his uniform, still
wonders about the whole affair, and dis-
tinctly dislikes it.
The band breaks, appropriately, into
“Here the Conquering Hero Comes” for
about the fiftieth time this day. There is
a clashing of cymbals, a rolling and a
rattling of the drums large and small and
a concerted blare of brass for the great
deed the young man has done.
Then the rector speaks. He waves the
noise down to a small sighing shirring
sea. He brushes the sea away with one
sweep of his hand. He holds the people,
saying to them that they think this and
they think that, or more correctly re-
ported by the Coolbucca “Guardian,”
“We think this ” “And I am sure we
think that ” and it seems he has hit
the nail upon the head, often, for there
is a cheer and cry to every statement;
the rector is obviously pleased, and in a
few moments hands over to the local
member.
He, fine fellow, is ready with words
and phrases. He rises, from behind the
chairman’s table, lifting his hands from
the black velvet cloth and rubbing them
together. He speaks of “Our Hero” with
a look towards Harold, and of “Our
Unsung Heroes,” with a look towards
where heaven is at this meridian, and he
subdues the jubilant crowd with a men-
tion of the unknown heroes. He is a
man to sway the people, this one, and
Aaron is seen to nod, from the midst of
his puzzlement. The rest Aaron cannot
understand—the fuss, the band, the
crowd and the festivity.
The local member promises the people
he will not stand there to say many
words, and having thus set them at ease
proceeds at great length. He feels, he
says, that it devolves upon him to voice
the thoughts of the people of his con-
stituency, the people that have here
gathered, and so he turns, accompanied
by acclamation, to Private Harold Amnig,
V.C., and says that he speaks on behalf,
not only of the people of Wirril Creek
and the entire Coolbucca Shire, but for
the people of the State, nay, the Com-
monwealth, and, here dropping his voice,
the Empire, and the Allied Nations them-
selves.
It is to be thought, then, by the manner
in which this statement is carried with
acclamation, that the Allied Nations
themselves are applauding, so deafening
is the handclapping, and it is certain the
nations of the world might little better
them, and yet this is not the end of it
all. A presentation is to be made, and
soberly, quietly, bearing in rrfind the task
which is his, the local member steps for-
ward.
“Private Amnig, V.C.” His voice is
deep, solemn. “On behalf of the people
of Wirril Creek, Coolbucca Shire, I
hereby present you with this token of
their gratitude and esteem.”
He hands an envelope to *the boy.
Harold Amnig takes the envelope,
bows, and stands in silent anguish.
A ARON, seated in the audience, in the
** front row, stares up at his son. He
shares a little of that agony his boy is
experiencing, but deeper, even more than
that, he has a private agony. He sees
this presentation as a vast conspiracy to
take his son from him. Because he is no
fool, but only the father of eighteen
children, he knows they have branded
his boy a hero, and he has never wanted
him to be just a hero. He cannot say
anything, however, nor think much more
than now he thinks. He watches his son
twisting the envelope, then opening it,
and finally staring, amazed and a trifle
fearfully, at the opened cheque.
The lodhl member stands,, raises a hand
and says “The people of this district
have made this gesture, raising the
amount of five hundred pounds”—he
must mouth this terrific sum, and all
watching him savor the fame of it—“as
a token, if insufficient, of their gratitude
for what one soldier has done.”
Cheering and applause. Only the
Amnig boys, looking at each other,
mouth a voiceless whistle. Harold shakes
his head a trifle, but Aaron feels a prick-
ing anger, a sensation new to him and
uncontrollable, making him helpless.
He knows in a dismayed moment that
wherever his son walks he will be known
and remembered not as a man, but as a
hero, as the winner of five hundred
pounds. He wishes to stand up and
stamp from the hall, but does not, be-
cause of his white-faced son up there and
Mrs. Aaron beside him. Instead he sits
there, waiting for his son to speak, and
Harold, when he does speak, talks in a
low tone, little of which can be heard
except the words “I’m glad to be home,”
at which Mrs. Aaron happily nods.
It seetns, then, that the show is finished,
every ounce having been squeezed from
the day. There has been no spectacular
response from the award winner, no ex-
citing telling of the tale, the manner in
which he attacked the machine-gun or
even his thoughts. It seems difficult, in-
deed, for some to visualise Harold ever
having pulled anything off, but it is true,
of course.
As they sit there, wondering what is
the next step before they sing “For He’s
a Jolly Good Fellow” and the National
Anthem the rector rises, and taking ad-
vantage of both silence and the warmly-
developed social spirit says:
“I am sure we cannot let this day pass
without some tribute to the parents of our
hero. They are with us tonight, and we
all know them; Mrs. Amnig, who has
all these years for her boys, and
he who must feel the proudest man in
Wirril Creek tonight, Mr. Aaron Amnig,
father of the V.C. winner.”
There is a burst of applause, and
Aaron rises, half-angrily.
If he has never said anything in his
life publicly then he will say it now, and
be damned to the parson and be damned
to everyone.
“And,” continues the rector. “When-
ever we think of Harold Amnig, V.C., we
shall think of the man who is his father.”
STRUCK, Aaron sinks to his seat, his
whole action melted in the last amaz-
ing statement. He feels his wife take his
hand, but this only numbly. He stares up
at the face of his hero son and sees sud-
denly that the boy is not at all changed
and that, for all his bravery, he is not
alone. His gaze shifts to his other sons,
Andy, who had been a prisoner, and the
two boys who fought longer, even, than
their V.C. brother. In a queer way it
commences to filter through him, as a
thought, that they have not been
separated from him. He thinks, even, in
a wild rush of hope, that they may live
with him, and even work with him;
Andy, Ron, Gerry and perhaps Harold,
for all his five hundred pounds.
He forgets the five hundred pounds,
then, and sits back, a trifle stiffly while
the tears prick his eyes.
Back of the hall someone shouts,
jovially perhaps, but with feeling: “What
about three cheers for Aaron?” And
then the people of Wirril Creek, who have
said for many years, jokingly, that Aaron
himself has deserved the V.C., stand and
let ring three hearty cheers, while Aaron
sits tight in his seat amazed, bewildered,
but just beginning to be happy.
LAST VOYAGE
by STANDBY
SHE lay about two hundred yards
offshore, anchored to a permanent
mooring in a quiet arm of the
river—rusted, abandoned and prac-
tically forgotten except by a band of small
boys who rowed out every fine week-
end to play sailors on her ancient decks.
Gulls, like blobs of cottonwool, clus-
tered along her rails and left their drop-
pings to mingle with the rust-stains down
her scarred sides. The once-white paint-
work of her topsides was grimed.with
smoke and peeling off in flakes like the
scales of a fish left rotting in the sun.
On the sweep of her counter the name
“Torsdale” was embossed in tarnished
brass letters. The R was missing and the
L hung drunkenly askew. Her very lines,
old-fashioned as grandma’s bonnet, told
of her age, though seen in the early light
of this perfect spring morning she blended
softly with the beauty of her surround-
ings.
No breath of air ruffled the glass-calm
surface of the water, so calm that it re-
flected every detail of the solitary little
white cloud drifting lazily overhead.
Faint white wisps of mist, slowly dis-
solving in the morning sun, softened the
outlines of the old ship and the man-
groves resting so lightly on their own
mirrored images.
Midway between ship and shore a
dinghy crawled slowly across the stream.
Dripping oar-
blades lifted from
the water, glis-
tened in the sun-
light and dipped
gently back as if
the stillness of the
morning had laid
a n enchantment
on the rower, making him afraid to dis-
turb that perfect peace. Gulls, floating
like flecks of foam on the river’s polished
surface, preened snowy feathers in mur-
mured content, and over everything hung
the fresh, faintly fishy smell of the salt-
water.
But the man in the dinghy was only
indirectly interested in the beauties of
the morning. Well he knew they could
not last. Soon the sou’east breeze would
spring up, shattering the reflections on
the water and blowing away the last
shreds of the morning mist. In an hour
at most the tide would begin to ebb,
sliding outwards at a pace that would
make rowing difficult —impossible almost
for him. He had chosen his time well,
taking all these things into account. The
owner of the dinghy would not be likely
to come down to the little strip of beach
for an hour or more, by which time it
would be returned to its moorings.
A few more gentle dips and the rower
rested on his oars —a frail old man whose
uncovered hair was as white as the breasts
of the drifting gulls. Blue veins showed
through the skin of his thin hands and
amongst the sagging wrinkles of his face
—veins that matched the color of the
eyes beneath the tufted white eyebrows.
The light grey suit hanging so loosely on
his thin figure was neatly pressed but
frayed around the pockets and cuffs.
The old man was breathing quickly
now as he sat watching the water drip
from the glistening oar-blades. For a
minute or two he rested there, and then,
dipping the blades back into the water,
he resumed his crawling progress. Slow
as they were, his movements were not
leisurely; they were the movements of
one who, confronted with a difficult task,
husbands his failing strength carefully.
A cloud of gulls rose as he approached
the ship and wheeled screaming around
the mast-heads. Only two cormorants
remained, ugly black birds drying their
outstretched wings in the sun and darting
long, snake-like necks to and fro in de-
fiance. Their impertinence annoyed the
old man. He banged an oar down on a
thwart and the shags flapped awkwardly
away, skimming so low over the water
that their wing-tips seemed to beat against
their own reflections. The dinghy scraped
against the ship’s side and, looking down
through the clear water, the old man
could see the barnacle-encrusted curve of
her bilges and the waving lank tendrils
of its heavy weed growth.
WITH shaking hands he made the
dinghy fast and clambered aboard.
The effort started him panting again. He
bent forward, one hand pressed tightly
against his chest to still the thumping of
his heart.
“Not so young as I used to be,” he
growled as if unwilling to admit the
passage of time. And then, straightening
himself up and smiling, “Well, old girl.
We’re together again. The Old Man’s
come aboard.” The words came jerkily.
While he regained his breath his eyes
took in the gaping deck-seams, the warp-
ing planks, rust-stained and littered with
the droppings of seabirds, and the blis-
tered paintwork. With a shrug of his
thin shoulders he turned away.
Slowly, painfully because the unwonted
exertion started his heart pounding
again, he climbed to the bridge.
Here the signs 'of
desolation and neglect
were even more
marked. Broken glass
tinkled and crunched
irritatingly beneath
his feet. Crude draw-
ings and ill-formed
letters of the names of
various boys were
scrawled on the chart-
room walls. The
chartroom, he saw.
had been stripped of all its fittings,
though the big, old-fashioned, hand-
steering-wheel still stood in the wheel-
house. The engineroom telegraph, green
with age, was still in its place on the
bridge. The glass was missing from its
face and the pointer stood, where some
playing boy had left it, at “Fuff Ahead.”
“Damned young larrikins! Ought to
be flogged!”
Strange that, amidst all this decay and
neglect, a trivial thing should annoy him
so. He stumped angrily across thfc bridge
and moved the pointer to “Finished with
Engines,” instinctively jerking the handle
to and fro several times as he did so.
Old Mac would have been annoyed
about that, too, he thought. He could
just imagine him down there now, im-
patiently pacing the engine-room and then
grunting sarcastically to his Second as the
gong clanged:
“Mon! They’ve actually remembered
tae ring the engines off at last!”
Thinking of old Mac reminded him
of a duty. He must go below and take
a look around the engineroom. Mac
(Continued on page 32.)


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE CONQUEST OF THE PACIFIC.
If William H. Prescott were alive to-
day he might well be inspired to add to
his stirring histories of conquest the story
of his own United States in the Pacific.
As well as the abundant reports, speeches
and comments recorded in the American
press, he would have, in the place of the
picture-writings of the Aztecs, the far
plainer photos bearing on the subject and
having one notable feature in common —
an outsize spread of Old Glory, probably
being handed by a representative of Uncle
Sam to a Pacific Islands counterpart; the
picture bearing this sort of legend: —
The Stars and Stripes come to Micro-
nesia. An aide to the Chief of Nama
Island in the Carolines, Albert Kem (in
white coat), receives an American flag from
Rear-Admiral C. H ; Wright in a ceremony
symbolising the change of authority in the
Western Pacific, where Japan once ruled.
Native policemen, one of whom looks on,
are now under fhe Navy’s new Military
Government.
Such a picture, with that caption, was
used by the “Christian Science Monitor”
to illustrate the report written by its staff
representative, Roland Sawyer, after he
had completed a U.S. Navy-sponsored
press tour of American military bases
“from Hawaii to China.” As in prac-
tically all American accounts touching on
this aspect of happenings in the Pacific —-
except for some adverse comments relat-
ing to Philippine “independence”—the
Islanders over the whole of the vast area
dealt with are wholly happy about the
change. “With the raising of die Stars and
Stripes over Kwajalein, Majuro, Guam,
Saipan, Peleliu, Koror, Truk, Ponape and
lesser islands and atolls,” the “Monitor”
representative reported, “the native
peoples turned towards America. Their
hopes are well expressed in the words of
a petition of the Marshallese: ‘We want
the United States as long as we live in
the world.... We want and ask the
United States of America to be our
guardian and protector.’ ”
Spurred by Canberra
Some of the places mentioned by
the “Monitor” man are, of course, not
new acquisitions. They date from the
period of American expansion towards
the close of last century, when
possessions taken over included also
Midway, Wake, parts of Samoa,
Hawaii and the Philippihes. Com-
menting on the additional expansion,
and declaring flatly that “The political
and military influence of the United States
of America is now firmly established over
the whole Pacific Ocean,” a writer in
London “Fortnightly,” Dr. Werner Levi,
credits “the conclusion of the Canberra
Agreement between Australia and New
Zealand in January, 1944,” with having
accelerated the U.S. advance; —
Quite mistakenly this agreement was in-
terpreted by many Americans as an un-
friendly act by the two Pacific Powers,
designed to interfere with the legitimate
desires and ambitions of the United States
in the post-war Pacific. Congressmen con-
cluded that the time had come for the
United States to map out a Pacific policy
of its own.
Consequently, soon after the signing
of the Canberra Agreement, a Congress
committee was appointed “for the pur-
pose of charting a definite American
policy for the Pacific and especially to
deal with the disposal of Pacific Islands.”
Of the Congressmen who voiced views
on the matter, “all agreed that the former
Japanese mandated islands should be
acquired by the United States as a mini-
mum.” Some went so far as to demand
“annexation of all Japanese-owned
islands, including the Ryukyus and
Formosa,” and, though not going so far
as that, “high dfficials of the Administra-
tion indicated that a certain number
of islands would be requested by the
United States either in the form of out-
right possession or of territories under
exclusive American jurisdiction.”
“So far,” writes Dr. Levi, “few voices
have been raised [in America] against the
proposal to add new possessions in the
Pacific. Occasionally the annexationists
are accused of imperialism or their in-
tentions of turning the Pacific into an
‘American lake’ are criticised. But there
is no such organised or well-formulated
agitation against the acquisition of new
bases as there appears to be in favor of
it.” In regard to “the considerable
activity going on in the field of policy
and diplomacy” Dr. Levi adds: —
Two distinct phases can be recognised:
one of action and one of negotiation. The
first-named refers to enterprise of the Army
and Navy on islands not formerly owned
by the United States. Both branches of
the armed forces are constructing strong
and permanent fleet anchorages and air-
fields. Some of these constructions were
begun while the war against Japan was still
in progress. Now the scale of these con-
structions has been reduced somewhat but
remains of sufficient size to permit the con-
clusion that the Army and Navy expect
to retain the bases or at least to influence
future decisions of their fate by the fait
accompli of important American instal-
lations.
The same writer notes reports—which
can be taken as representing an extreme
view on ITS. Pacific expansion—that “the
United States is building a large base in
Robe, Japan.” He adds: “Although it
may be assumed that this base is of a
temporary nature it, has nevertheless
created rumors among the Japanese
people that Kobe is to be used as a
point d’appui for a war against Russia,
considered inevitable by the Japanese.”
The “Atlantic Monthly” also touches on
this extreme view in acidly commenting
on a theory apparently advanced in
America that, as China can be nothing
but a United States headache, there
should be a turning to Japan instead: —-
According to this theory, the Kuomintang
is past saving and should be abandoned;
but Japan has a fine military tradition, a
fine anti-Russian tradition, and industrial
know-how as a bonus. Japan should there- f
fore be salvaged as an American Gibraltar
off the mainland of Asia —superior to Gib-
— U.S. "Army Times.”
PACIFIC WATCHTOWER.
raltar in its ability to provide us with a
tough, self-contained colonial army. The
• theory has been discussed with relish by
some of the Americans in Tokyo from the
moment that it was discovered, with amaze-
ment and delight, that our fanatical oppo-
nents, the Japanese, were as willing to obey
American military orders as they had been
to obey the orders ofr their own militarists.
Exclusive U.S. Control
Aside from such extreme views, Dr.
Levi considers that “the present trend of
American policy in regard to naval bases
in the Pacific is no longer in accord with
the ideals held by President Roosevelt,”
who “favored international bases under
a United Nations flag.” In contrast:
“Obviously the [U.S.] Navy and War
Departments consider American security
assured only by exclusive control over
American bases.” That is certainly the
impression gathered by the “Christian
Science Monitor” representative:
The paramount impression which the
trip across the Pacific left with this corre-
spondent, reflected in the attitude of vari-
ous commands from Hawaii t&, China, is
the naval determination to retain sole
authority and autonomy in the Western
Pacific, whether a challenge comes from
the United Nations or from the [U.S.]
Federal Government.
The correspondent further stated that
“while some officers do not seem parti-
cularly anxious to assume the duties of
governor, administrator, educator and
counsellor for the people of Micronesia,
officers of flag rank in the Western
Pacific reflect a determination that no
other country shall have a voice in this
responsibility even under a United
Nations trusteeship” Judging by the
official statement on the United States
position on trusteeship matters, conveyed
to U.N.O. by the U.S. alternate delegate
John Foster Dulles, the officers referred
to by the “Monitor” man would seem to
have nothing to fear even under “trustee-
ship.” Mr. Dulles—in the N.Y. “Herald
Tribune’s” editorial view “obviously
making the of a bad job”—differen-
tiated between “trusteeship” and “annexa-
tion,” and he said that “the United States
does not intend that the United Nations
shall be relegated to a minor role in the
administration of trust territories” ; never-
theless, the U.S. favored, for the present,
“single nation administrations under the
trust agreements,” on the ground, as the
“Herald Tribune” put it, that U.N.O. “is
totally unequipped as yet to undertake
on its own responsibility the difficult and
complex task of colonial administration.”
(Incidentally, the “Herald Tribune” in-
terpreted this as exposing the “helpless-
ness of the still embryonic U.N.O. before
any concrete issue of world organisa-
tion.”) Mr. Dulles stated:
The Assembly can justifiably assume that
if the United Nations hereafter demonstrates
that its administration will best secure peace
and security and the welfare of the in-
habitants, the United Nations will be given
ever-increasing responsibility in relation to
the trusteeship system.
What this really amounts to is that the
widespread Pacific Islands claimed by
the United States as “strategic” will be
administered solely by the U.S. until
such time as the U.S. considers U.N.O.
better able than itself to do the job.
Former U.S. Under Secretary of State
Sumner Welles, writing in the “Herald
Tribune,” has no doubt about what the
position is. Referring to the U.S.
“trusteeship” proposal as of “outstand-
ing significance,” he describes it as “a
plan by which the Japanese mandated
islands would nominally be placed under
a United Nations trusteeship, but by
which the United States would in reality
be given exclusive control.” He further
describes the U.S. “trusteeship” proposal
as a “demand of the United States for
exclusive authority over all of these areas.
with ‘full powers of administra-
; tion, legislation and jurisdic-
tion,’ so that all of the islands
would be governed as if they
were ‘an integral part of the
United States.’ ”
Philippine “Independence”
All of the expansion referred
to is naturally dictated by, and
justified by, “security,” and an
interesting aspect of this is
shown by what is happening in
the Philippines, A great deal
has been made of the granting
of “independence” to the Fili-
pinos ; symbolically, on Ameri-
can Independence Day,
would be made -of this particu-
lar transaction (as it has been
reported.) if Britain were the
obliging party may, perhaps, bl|
indicated by the long record of
hostile U.S. criticism of British
affairs in India and elsewhere.
It is known that the arrange-
ment included American rights
to maintain bases in the Philip-
pines and to hold certain trade
advantages, but the extent of
these concessions might be
found hard to reconcile with
true independence. Regarding
the bases, the publication “Asia
and the Americas” quotes U.S. War
Department statements made by General
Eisenhower (in his role as Chief-of-Staff)
to the effect that the U.S. plans to “keep
bases at Leyte and Luzon manned by
79,000 as compared with 30,000 before
the war.” The publication comments:
Controversy has arisen over the leases
of these bases. Many Filipinos have ex-
pressed disfavor, claiming that they can
have no freedom as long as American
soldiers are on Philippine soil. At present
most Filipinos are willing for such bases
to be maintained. However, it is entirely
possible that a wave of anti-Americanism
may sweep the islands and demands be
made for the removal of all American
troops. On the other hand, internal strife
may develop to the extent that one faction
or another will demand that American
troops be used to restore law and crder.
In a “Collier’s” article, in the course
of which he explains the U.S. position in
the Philippines, the U.S. High Commis-
sioner there, Paul V. McNutt, says that
the Philippines bases are to be for
“supply, repair and staging activities for
all U.S. armed forces in the Far East”:
The Philippines, with their sufficient
hinterland and ready supply of civilian
labor, are ideal for such establishments.
Neither Guam nor Okinawa, nor any other
of the islands in the Far Pacific, can pro-
vide the facilities for logistics which are
available in the Philippines. Committed
as we are to a long-term occupation of
Japan, to a strong policy in Asia, the
Philippines are destined to play a major
role in our diplomacy in the Orient.
In the High Commissioner’s view,
“Should the United States evbr again be
involved in war in the Orient, the Philip-
pines would automatically be drawn in.”
Some may regard as rather an understate-
ment Mr. McNutt’s admission that “this
cannot be considered independence in the
old meaping of the word,” and it is most
emphatically not so considered by the
writer of an “American Mercury” article,
Bernard Seeman, who represents the
Filipinos as viewing the U.S. “gift of in-
dependence” with “bitter disillusion and
contempt,” and the Philippine Islands
altogether as “an economic vassal of the
United States. ’ A somewhat milder view
of the trade arrangement, more favorable
to the U.S., is expressed by the “Atlantic
Monthly;
Whatever the future may have in store
for the Philippines, it is clear that for the
next two or three decades the Islands would
find it difficult to depart from the American
orbit, even if they so wished. American
money is going into the rehabilitation of
the Philippine economy, and Americans
have a privileged trading position both with
and within the Islands.
The Philippine Trade Act provides, in
fact, for U.S. “preferential trade relations
with the Philippines, to last for 28 years.”
The Americans view this as a “rehabilita-
tion measure.”
Pacific a U.S. Ocean
Elsewhere about the Pacific there is
nothing of what the “American Mercury”
writer dubs “the fiction of independence
in the Philippines.” The natives of the
Mariana, Caroline, Palap and Marshall
groups and of other islands in the wide
expanse are, according to the “Christian
Science Monitor” representative who
visited them under U.S. Navy guidance,
“classified officially as ‘wards of the
Military Government of the United
States.’ ”
The U.S. position was even more
bluntly stated by the chairman of a Con-
gressional Naval Sub-committee, Repre-
sentative Izac, interviewed for the Chicago
“Tribune” in Tokyo, while on tour of
the Pacific and the Orient: “The Pacific
is definitely our ocean.” Another of the
party. Rep. Bishop, capped the chairman’s
view with a downright “The strategic
islands might well be called ‘United States
Islands.’ ” And, judging by the general
trend of American comment on the sub-
ject, far more Americans would support
than would oppose these Congressmen’s
views on the U.S. conquest of the Pacific.
THE RUSSIAN RELIGION.
Nearly all information served up by
press and radio in Australia on Russia
and Russian moves in world affairs is
based on the assumption that Soviet Com-
munism is a normal political system. As
such it is therefore generally regarded,
while its offshoots in various countries
are classed as political parties.
From that view of Soviet Communism
sprang the once strongly-held hope that,
as a statement of U.S. Government policy
towards Russia put it at the time, there
was “no final difficulty in living side by
side with another system.” A very dif-
ferent view, which could explain why
there has, in fact, been considerable
difficulty, is being advanced by various
thoughtful observers-—that Soviet Com-
munism is actually a secular religion with
a fervent aim to sweep over the whole
world.
The Canadian Royal Commission re-
port on the Soviet-spy trials noted as of
“paramount importance” the fact that
“Canadians were willing to give secret
information no matter what its import-
ance,” and that “money was rarely, if
ever, the motive,” those giving the
information “regarding themselves as
idealists.” In the view of Soviet Com-
munism as a world-ambitious secular re-
ligion they would be regarded as religious
coqverts.
As a change from the usual reporting,
a “S. M. Herald” special correspondent
lately reported from* America: “Once
again I heard the phrase ‘Communism is
a kind of religion which is spreading
throughout the world.’ ” Actually, U.S.
and British observers put this in a rather
different way; “Communism is a kind of
religion which Soviet Russia aims to
spread throughout the world.” These
observers note the setbacks to that am-
bition, particularly since the exposures of
the Canadian spy trials.
Those expounding this view regard as
compatible with it the Soviet attitude of
unrelenting hostility to every other system.
This was pointedly commented on in
what N.Y. “Times’s” Washington cor-
respondent Arthur Krock described as
“a very remarkable paper” read before
a Princeton University audience by Dr.
Isaiah Bowman, one of the drafters of
what eventually became the U.N.O.
Charter. Referring to Latin America,
“where Church and State leaders alike
had come to fear Communism as an un-
expected epidemic in the disorder of post-
war reconstruction,” and declaring that
“if the Soviet Union sought advantage
in the Western Hemisphere, it was a
stupid mistake to enlarge Communistic
activity so extravagantly in Latin America
during the war,” Dr. Bowman added;
To many outspoken leaders of Latin
America witnessing Soviet implacability to-
ward oilier systems, Soviet participation m
world organisation seems a hollow mockery.
It became all too obvious that Germany was
but the immediate enemy of the Soviet Union
and that the roster of enemies included
all non-Soviet Governments throughout


the world. Stalin’s speech of Feb. 9,
1946, only confirmed explicitly what Soviet
actions had so long and clearly implied.
Stalin’s speech referred to was that
made at last year’s Soviet “elec-
tions” ; Stalin, who has since twice spoken
in more conciliatory terms, then declared
that War was “the inevitable result” of
the development of “monopoly capital-
ism.” In his Princeton address Dr. Bow-
man went on to say that “two incom-
patible systems have locked horns,” that
“Soviet leaders are saying there can be
no world peace unless the world is first
converted to Communism,” and that “a
controlled press at home, despite the
sporadic exceptions that dilsemble its
true policy, gives the Soviet Government
an unparalleled advantage in a game
which it insists on playing with loaded
dice.”
Treason “Morally Correct”
That the Soviet game is not merely
political, but has to be viewed in the
light of Soviet Communism as a secular
religion whose fanatic adherents have
ambitions embracing the world, is the
theme of coinciding articles by two
observers on opposite sides of the
Atlantic; the forthright F. A. Voigt,
editor of London “Nineteenth Century
and After,” and John Fischer, an Ameri-
can who worked last year as a member
of U.N.R.R.A. in the Ukraine and has
made a close study of the Soviet system.
Between them these writers analyse
Soviet moves on that basis of religion;
Voigt in particular points out the dangers,
but both see some encouraging signs.
In a “Harper’s Magazine” article Fischer
depicts Russia’s ruling class as resem-
bling “the ancient religious orders.” The
party “alone purveys the True Faith, and
its Inquisition, the secret police of the
N.K.V.D., mercilessly ferrets out all
heretics. It sees its mission as the salva-
tion of all mankind, and any tolerance
for the heathen abroad can be nothing
less than sin.” In the same vein Fischer
proceeds;—
The rich iconography, always so precious
to devout Russians, has not disappeared;
it has simply changed a little. Lenin is
now the Father, Stalin the Son, and Marx
the Holy Ghost; and their pictures are
enshrined in almost every home... .Soviet
artists today are employed almost exclu-
sively in celebrating these religious figures,
together with the saints and martyrs of
the Faith; and the conventions of their art
are just as rigidly prescribed as those which
the Church once laid down for the artists
of the Middle Ages.
The “holy relics,” says Fischer, are pre-
served in the Lenin Museum on the Red
Square in Moscow, and replicas have
been provided for branch museums in
every major city.
Before they view them, the faithful re-
move their hats, and they stare with hushed
reverence at Lenin’s desk, his schoolboy re-
port card, and the wig he wore while hiding
from the Kerensky police. The most sacred
relic of all, naturally, is Lenin’s body,
displayed in its black marble tomb like the
incorruptible bodies of the saints in the
Lavra catacombs; every day long lines of
worshippers file past the, bier, their faces
rapt and grave.
The catechism has been preserved, with
minor changes. In kindergartens I have
heard the teachers ask: “To whom do you
owe your happy childhood?” and the four-
year-olds lisped: “To Comrade Stalin,
hurrah!” In the best religious tradition,
the party claims a monopoly of education;
and its rather puritanical moral code
governs the conduct of the people in every
detail from marriage to the reading of
books which blaspheme the revealed doc- ,
trine. Moreover, its prelates open nearly
every public meeting with a eulogy of the
Leader which is no different, in spirit, from
prayer.
But, “because they are drilled to think
in stereotyped patterns, all dictated by a
few men who are profoundly ignorant of
the outside world,” Fischer expects that
the Soviet Communists “may run into in-
creasing difficulties as they attempt to
expand their operations beyond ’ the
Russian borders.” He mentions the
“effective opposition of Europe’s Catholic
parties,” and he suggests that people
generally in such countries as Britain and
the United States, who feel “that it is
old-fashioned and somehow barbarous to
burn nonconformists and heretics at the
stake,” will not readily accept “the Com-
munists’ violent suppression of heretics,
nor the doctrine that every action—in-
cluding lying, treason and murder —is
morally correct if performed in the ser-
vice of the Cause.”
Russia Wants the World
As seen by F. A. Voigt in the “Nine-
teenth Century and After,” “Russia is
under a secular religion, a religion, that
is, which is concerned with salvation in
this world and not in the next.” Russia’s
“sincerity is often doubted because her
deeds are often crooked and her words
are often false. But her religion, pre-
cisely because it is secular, is above good
and evil, above truth and untruth. The
good, to her, is all that will promote
universal socialism, evil is all that is
opposed to universal socialism.”
It is no accident that the deepest under-
standing of Russian secular religion—and,
therefore, of Russia —is to be found
amongst those who are versed in Christian
theology. The assumption that some final
and all-embracing agreement is possible
with Russia, or that there is, between her
and the Western World, some middle
where the two can meet this is the
assumption of those who cannot credit
either Russia or the Western World with
any ultimate belief because they have no
ultimate belief themselves.
Russia, for her own part, “knows that
between her. and the Western World
there can be no ultimate compromise”:
All subjects of the Soviet Union, young
and old, are taught and retaught socialism
as a secular religion and are made to be-
lieve it is the Union’s mission to establish
it universally. Other religions, such as
Christianity, are seemingly tolerated only
because they are no longer feared, or be-
cause the milder forms of persecution are
as effective as the extreme forms in pro-
moting the ultimate disappearance of these
religions. Unless there is a crisis so radical
as to shake the foundations of the Russian
order, the Christian religion cannot survive
within the confines of the Union. Of .this
there is no doubt in the minds of those
who rule in Russia. Nor have they any
doubt as to the ultimate extinction of
Christianity everywhere—it is their belief
as long as Christianity, or any transcen-
dental religion, survives, mankind will not
be truly free.
Because they “stand for all she hales
and in the way of all she wants,” Russia
“regards her recent principal allies, Great
Britain and the United States, as her
principal opponents.” Voigt points to the
main source of danger in Europe, con-
— N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
PIN-UP GIRL.
earning which the peacemaking confer-
ence set down for Moscow in March may
be highly informative: “What,” he asks,
“does Russia want?” Because the im-
posing of socialism everywhere is re-
garded as a sacred Soviet mission, he be-
lieves “She wants the world. She must
have the world so that the world may
have socialism.”
She had a rival who also wanted the
world: Germany. Now that this rival
has been overthrown, Russia has resumed
her philanthropic mission, which she never
relinquished altogether, with singleness of
purpose, and all the resolve, energy and
resources at her disposal.
A “Christian Science Monitor” special
correspondent in Europe points out “the
close integration of the Soviet foreign
policy with the broader objectives of
Communism as an international move-
ment, The abolition of the Comintern,
while it did away with the official
‘General Staff of the World Revolution,’
far from causing world Communism to
disintegrate, has had the opposite effect
of co-ordinating and unifying it.” Op
Russia’s aim to use Germany for world
Communism’s purposes F. < A. Voigt
comments;
Her recent rival and enemy is, today,
her prospective instrument and ally. To
have the world she must first have Europe,
and to have Europe she must have Ger-
many. The Germans will, in a Europe
dominated by Russia, be the privileged
nation under Russia. They will dominate
the other European nations on behalf of
Russia, or, rather, of socialism.
The aim of world conquest accepted,
it follows that “whoever in England, the
United States, Canada, and so on', is a
spy or an agent for Russia, whoever
betrays a military or scientific seciet —
the secret, for example, of some process
in the production of atomic bombs—is a
patriot of the Socialist Fatherland, just as,
from the one-time German point of view,
William Joyce was a patriot of the
National Socialist Fatherland.”
“Third World War”
Whether Russia will be able to impose
the secular religion of Soviet Communism
on the world “depends on the defensive
precautions taken by the Western Powers,
and on the strength of those simple
loyalties which are still the substance of
their civilisation.” One ground for pos-
sible optimism is that Russia “has made
herself hated”;
Nowhere js she willingly accepted. Her
secular religion has found no appeal ex-
cept amongst small minorities —only in the
Balkans has it a fanatical following amongst
the young, and even that following is
limited. Everywhere she must maintain
her ascendancy by force and with the aid
of servile administrators who could not
survive the departure of her troops or her
agents for one day.
For another thing, “the Communists
everywhere are being recognised for what
they are”: “Their ruthlessness, their
cunning, their mendacity, their divorce
from the poor and the oppressed (and,
therefore, from the sources of their one-
time strength), their arrogance, their obse-
quiousness, and their treachery to their
own countries —all these things have led
to a widespread revulsion against them.”
Insisting, however, that the Communists
“still possess considerable subversive
strength,” and that “should the French
and the Italians be called upon to defend
their countries their Communists could
paralyse the national effort,” Voigt con-
cludes :
Nevertheless, Russian belief, that was
once so strong, in the advent of universal
socialism by universal revolution “from
below,” has been disproved by events. To-
day universal socialism as conceived in
Moscow can only come by universal con-
quest “from above,” by a Third World
War.
Eastern Europe groans under Russian
tyranny. The rest of Europe is perturbed
by Russian menaces. The civilised world
is outraged by the cumulative evidence of
Russian aggressiveness and barbarity.
Europe rejects Russia’s secular religion
as a false religion. Europe has one supreme
wish —that the Russians withdraw within
Russia’s own borders as they were before
the Second World War. Without the con-
solidation and the armed defence of West-
ern and Southern Europe, and the military
preparedness of Great Britain and the
United States, all is lost. But these are
not enough. Nothing less than the libera-
tion of all Europe is enough.
Perhaps something of these reactions
may have got through to the Kremlin.
Explaining certain recent signs of
“Russian reasonableness,” the head of the
“Christian Science Monitor’s” Washing-
ton staff, Roscoe Drummond, suggests
“Moscow may have concluded that
it is losing the battle of world propaganda
—the ideas of Western Democracy versus
the ideas -of Soviet Communism—and has
taken steps to give its diplomacy a
calmer, quieter countenance.” Against
that the “Nineteenth Century and After”
editor declares that Russia’s press and
radio and those which it controls else-
where continue “representing Great
Britain and all she stands for—her in-
stitutions, her actions, her motives —as
hateful and sinister,” and this, with the
like misrepresentation of the United
States, he ascribes to the unshakable am-
bition to spread the secular religion of
Soviet Communism over the entire world
—if need be, by the Third World War.
“And for that war,” he bluntly asserts,
“Russia is preparing.”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Preference for Orphan Migrants. —Taking the
lead from President Truman, who said that
“of the displaced persons and refugees whose
entrance into the United States we will permit
under the revived quota immigration plan, it
is hoped that the majority will be orphaned
children,” a committee has been set up in
America to see that the hope is realised. After
a thorough search has been made for missing
parents the children will be put through medical
and other tests. An appeal of that sort, on
behalf of those “who were babies when the
war started” and “began life in a setting of
tragedy,” would stir similar sentiments in Aus-
tralia; but it would be no use looking for the
orphans in Shanghai. N.Y. “Times” describes
them as “the smallest and most pitiable of the
displaced persons in camps set up by the
occupying authorities” in Europe.
a* Hc * *
’ Atom Veto Futile. —Somersaulting with prac-
tised agility, Molotov appeared to agree in
U.N.O. that there should be international
atomic inspection and control free from veto.
“World Report” suggests that all talk about
a veto preventing punishment of atomic agree-
ment violators is bunkum, anyway. “If U.N.O.
inspectors,” it argues, “found a big Power
making bombs despite solemn agreement not
to, the veto right could hardly prevent punish-
ment. The other Powers could not afford to
let her go unpunished. And punishment could
not stop with sanctions. It would mean war,
and war cannot be prevented by a Parliamen-
tary veto.” The really vital issue is agreement
on the inspection and control. Some put it
10 years hence. I
* * * *
Soldiers for Big Jobs. —The appointment of
General Marshall to succeed Byrnes as U.SA
Secretary of State drew from London “Times”
the comment that President Truman “has been
quick to utilise the gifts of soldiers who com-
bine diplomatic with military qualities.” First
Canberra priority is to election-defeated party
hacks who possess neither of those qualities.
The American contrast: “A soldier is re-
shaping the life of Japan; another is in charge
of American interests in Gerifiany; a third is
Ambassador to Moscow; a fourth now takes
charge of the department to which they look
for instructions.”
* * * *
War Loot Becomes As many have
suspected, the boosted Soviet planned efficiency
seems to have been a little exaggerated. Re-
ports to that effect include one in the “Chris-
tian Science Monitor,” which names “America’s
mission in Moscow” as authority for recording
that outside Moscow “one of those American
factories that were shipped lock, stock and
barrel to Russia during the war” is “wheezing
along at 30 per cent, capacity” through “in-
ability of both Soviet management and labor
to use this complicated machinery.” More-
over, “Reports also tell of mountains of Ger-
man industrial loot and reparations machinery
lining Soviet railroads, rusting and falling to
pieces. No one knows how it works, where
it goes, what to do with it. It represents
millions and millions of dollars’ worth of
valuable equipment, but it is fast becoming just
so much junk.”
* * * *
Argentine-Soviet Flop. —When the Kremlin
suddenly stopped calling Peron and his Argen-
tine followers “Fascist beasts” and became all
pally, with trade and other arrangements, it
left “fellow-travellers” everywhere gasping like
goldfish and Corns doing another flipfiap. Now,
according to N.Y. “Herald Tribune’s” Buenos
Aires correspondent, though the Kremlin is still
willing Argentina has turned cold. “The ex-
pected large-scale trade with Russia didn’t
materialise”; and as an exporting country
Argentina “is not too happy about the way
things are developing in Eastern Europe,” dis-
liking “to see any large section of Europe
marked ‘Russian Trade Only.’ ” Also, “Catholic
Argentina was disturbed by the Yugoslav trial
of Archbishop Stepinac and impressed by the
excommunication of those involved. And Peron
is known to have said that Argentina would
side with the United States in the ‘next war.’ ”
They’ll be looking up the slangwhang dictionary
in the Kremlin.
# * * *
Candid Exchanges in U.N.O. Heirlooms
U.N.O. inherited from the League of Nations
evidently didn’t include the machine with' which
those polite predecessors minced their words.
“The picture is as false as those who draw
it!” was South African Heaton Nicholls’s
retort on the Indian delegates’ description of
conditions in his country. Australia preferred
the role of squib in that South Africa debate,
but British delegate Sir Hartley Shawcross hit
hard and free: “There are some places where
those of negro blood are by law denied the
privileges accorded to others —may the U.N.
pass upon that? Is the police State, in which
the real power is invested in some security
force or secret police, not a flagrant infringe-
ment of the Charter of the U.N. and, if so,
can its existence remain any longer a matter
of only domestic concern? Is the liberty of
the subject fully protected in particular coun-
tries, or are there not sortie in which people
may be imprisoned—and, too often, disappear
—without proper trial?”
* * * *
China’s Overcrowded Land. —Judging by the
report of an American agricultural mission
which spent five months investigating China,
General Marshall, having wasted over g year
there vainly trying to produce order, may
even look forward to the March peacemaking
in Moscow as comparatively simple. The mis-
sion reached what N.Y. “Times” called “the
important if rather grim conclusion” that the
fundamental problem at the bottom of all
China’s other troubles is overpopulation in
relation to the available tillable land: “China’s
population now totals 457,000,000, of which
331,000,000 live on the land. In terms of
tillable land there is only about half an acre
available for each inhabitant and only four-
fifths of an acre for each farm inhabitant.”
The mission’s recommendation amounts to
birth-control, no more favored in China than
anywhere else in Asia. It was once suggested
also for Japan.
* * * *
Living Costs Soar in U.S. —Americans are
starting to kick against high living costs; so
much so that a conference of sellers’ organisa-
tions has been trying to think up a way of
overcoming widespread “buyer resistance.”
N.Y. “Post” puts the current dost of living
there as “the highest in American history,” the
price index having soared to “1.5 per cent,
above the loftiest point of the inflationary era
that followed World War I.” Americans are
now paying “53.9 per cent, higher prices than
those prevailing in 1939.” Various economic
authorities have been quoted as predicting a
crash ahead, forecasts ranging, however, from
a serious to a merely mild depression.


■■■■MM
SSStisSs!
MiMANiffi
' \ '' 'v< >
''' ''V'MIlI*
''' j ■■> 11 i
; •• • . • ' ' #w
•■ ••••••■•
:: ,
iiii
HI
.
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
mm
mmm
gMpi
m -
Vi
m
mm
s.
/ rftf ;l
SMMiill
ii
iiii
' <■
is
: /:£f***i****t l>
: : - :
m
'XUtftl**:::#
mm
•■. ;: I
1
:
> V V --•; ■ •
♦ S'
< > \
m
f.-f ff M M fw#
Hi
ASfSS
ff i
mm
f-m f
111
(S^KsJs
W«:
.•* $
■
s*|pi
•tiff
N .--. ;•
#1
iff ff
«>»
iiii?
* *
Pure Australian
Virgin Wool
Hi
I It If If fill
fff
mm
«i*« *;SflKiS*4i v$ i
Kitir.il > in*/" ■■
ttm'mm
mm
m
m
iiii
■.■:•■■•
' .
is m
▼
i
A
A
:
A
, 11 -f ?■' j , , - '
THE EXCELLENCE OF ITS WORSTED MANUFACTURES
iiiiiilllliipiiiiiliil
8.
X; JC 'vl sfSMss ‘ v i- /
iiililiiliiiiiii
FROM AUSTRALIAN VIRGIN WOOL
i
-
■ VirTADiA
v.^VlCi.TO.-K'WlL A..m.X)s'Zb’::: : :
jflltt’JiwfJ
mMmtm
ngi
— > ■• —, .
.- V
S«S
: y ■;•■• ;
I


the Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3494.
Wednesday, January 29, 1947
DROPPING THE MAHOUT.


the Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J, E. Webb
P- H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
PREFERENCE TO JEWS.
Gone with the wind is the Calwell immi-
gration scheme, an authorised part and
an unauthorised part excepted.
The authorised part, authorised in a
hurry and with only a pretence of de-
bate, provided for administrative expendi-
ture of £785,000 on immigration in the
current financial year, to which—with the
same expedition and contempt of Parlia-
mentary control of the public purse—
there was added £324,600 of administra-
tive expenditure on Information. For,
as the author of the scheme had burbled
on August 2, 1945, “we intend to embark
on an adequate publicity campaign in
Britain and in other centres of potential
immigration on the Continent, designed
to explain to the people there our anxiety
to receive them,” and the reason why they
couldn’t all come at once.
The unauthorised part, which, like the
administrative expenditure, is in full going
order, concerns the introduction of large
quantities of European Jews. These
people havfe come and are coming from
Europe, Africa and Asia, for the most
part—necessarily—in ships (though some
have arrived by plane), and all with
Calwell landing permits, and with no
questions asked as to whether or not
they or any of them are Communists or
sympathisers with the terrorists who are
waging a war of bomb, landmine and
tommy-gun on our British brothers in
Palestine, or have engaged in any rackets
or blackmarkets.
But of the children who were to have
been brought to Australia “in the first
three years after the war, 50,000 orphans
from Britain and other devastated coun-
tries” (Mr. Calwell, August 2, 1945), there
is no sign. Neither has there been more
than a sprinkling of British immigrants,
though British immigration was to have
formed the main part of the scheme.
The “target” set by the Minister 18
months ago was 70,000 immigrants a
year ; and more than twice the number of
prospective British immigrants (“approxi-
mately 153,000 people in 866 occupational
categories,” the Minister said on Novem-
ber 22) have “registered” at Australia
House, London. Nine months ago Mr.
Chifley spoke with assurance of finding
berths, jobs and housing for 35,000
British immigrants a year, “beginning lajte
in 1947.” This figure has got down to
a mere 6000, and even this seems an ex-
travagant estimate; anyway, at a Canberra
conference of Ministers of Immigration
900 WSfe promised to each of the six
States and 600 to Canberra for 1947.
The 600 for Canberra are the building-
trade workers of whom, to the obvious
chagrin of the British Government, the
selfish and soulless “Government” to
which Mr. Calwell belongs is depriving
its war-wasted country, with its millions
of bomb-wrecked and -damaged houses.
In the terms of the migration agree-
ment to which the U.K. Govern-
ment became a party before Can-
berra callousness and the serious
British industrial situation, outlined last
week in a White Paper, were borne in on
its mind, Britain, in Mr. Calwell’s words,
has to provide “free passages to Australia
for British ex-servicemen and -women
and their dependants” ; and no doubt a
claim for free passages in respect of the
600 building-trade workers has been or
will be made.
Pungent remarks on the affair of the
600 came from Mr. Playford on' his
return to Adelaide from the conference
of Immigration Ministers. He said that,
in view of Britain’s desperate need, there
would be no bricklayers or carpenters
among the 900 immigrants assigned to
South Australia this year—if it should
receive 900 ; and he didn’t think it would.
South Australia will probably not get
one additional person in 1947. As the
immigration scheme has worked out it is
scarcely an immigration scheme at all.
Shipping is so limited that it is certain all
berths will be filled on return trips, so
actually there will be no gain of popu-
lation ; no excess of immigration over
emigration. It is most disappointing.
South Africa, for its part, is confident
of arranging for a regular service of
immigration ships. With a white
population barely two - sevenths of
Australia’s, it has decided to bring, in
1500 immigrants a month. A day or two
after the Canberra conference it was an-
nounced that its Immigration Council
“hopes to induce British shipping com-
panies to reserve three large ships for
immigration transport”; and very prob-
ably it will get them. For its Govern-
ment, unlike Mr. Calwell’s, is in a position
to give the shipping companies copper-
bottomed guarantees, having a short
and - rough way with Communist
saboteurs. In “Labor” Australia sea,
rail and road transport are theirs to do
what they like with, and they have a
special fancy for tying up ships of all
nations, British and Dutch preferred.
The occurrence of a wharf strike on the
other side of the Tasman led them to
extend their nefarious operations to a
New Zealand Government ship in Sydney
Harbor, laden with timber urgently
needed for the building programmes of
“Labor” Governments, all years behind
pressing needs.
* So far air transport has been exempt
from the attentions of Communist ruffians,
and, being in a mood, to clutch at any
straw, Mr. Calwell fatuously proposed
that planes should be used for transport
of immigrants from Britain. Private pas-
sengers have already booked in such
numbers that air carriage of immigrants
could not be attempted for many
months, and then, if current rates are
continued, it would cost £325 per adult
passenger by flying-boat and £375 by
Lancastrian. Almost as idiotic are other
Calwell ideas: chartering the Aquitania
in one case; in the other, converting
British aircraft-carriers (Australia, of
course, has none) into immigration, ships.
Britain, with commitments everywhere,
has neither officers nor men to spare for this
crazy purpose, and neither has Australia.
If assured of a quick turn-round of
vessels, the British might be willing to
provide ships for a few thousand
Poles from the Eighth Army, now
men without a country, since part of it
was annexed by Russia and the rest
given over to Communist stooges, who
carried the recent election by recourse to
criminal practices. There are miners and
artisans among these Poles, and
Morshead’s Australians and Freyberg’s
New Zealanders found them good fellows,
as well as great fighters. They have sturdy
champions among the Tobruk Rats, and
their cause was pleaded by the British
High Commissioner at the Canberra con-
ference, which he attended by invitation.
They are Catholics too and Mr. Calwell
himself is a Catholic; but he and his
crowd are too scared of Communists to
think of offering, a new life and hospitality
to even a corporal’s guard of these unfor-
tunate warriors ; so exit the Anders Pole.
British shipping, guaranteed against
Communist larrikinism, might likewise be
arranged for a few thousand anti-Com-
munist Balts, of whom there were recently
150,000 in European camps for displaced
persons. They are good people in the
main; 5000 'of the women have been
taken on the strength of British hospital
staffs (and God knows our own hospital
staffs need reinforcement), and parties of
bold spirits, refusing to live under Com-
munism, have sailed in frail sloops from
ports like Riga right across the Atlantic
to the U.S.A., there to reap the reward
their intrepidity deserved. We could do
with such adventurous characters in this
country. We could also take Frenchmen
and Danes, many of whom have apprised
Australian authorities in Europe of their
anxiety to accept our protection and
share our fortunes ; but these again have
struck a chilling frost.
A Copenhagen journalist, Svend Irgens
Hansen, recently toured the Common-
wealth “investigating migration possi-
bilities.” His account of his experiences
was given in London to a Melbourne
“Age” correspondent, and is here re-
printed in brief, Mr. Calwell’s denial and
invective-being taken as read:
I went to Australia because I felt it was
a kind of Gibraltar of the white people. I
received little information and no facilities
to see the country .from Mr. Calwell.
When I asked for travel priorities he passed
me on to the Minister of Transport* who
in turn passed the buck to the Air
Minister.
Mr. Calwell granted me interviews last-
ing only a quarter of an hour one day and
a few minutes on other occasions. I was
given more information by Mr. Menzies
and Mr. Spender than by the Government.
When I tried to interview Mr. Haylen, the.
Chairman of the Migration Committee, who
toured Europe, he was too busy to see
me, but invited me to lunch next day.
Then he was too busy to discuss migration,
and we parted immediately the meal
finished.
It is improbable that the Danish gentle-
man would have had any cause for com-
plaint had he introduced himself as Svend
Irgens Hansenstein and solicited land-
ing permits for “Europeans” quartered
in Czechoslovakia, Austria, Yugoslavia,
the American zone of Germany or in
Hong Kong or Shanghai. In that case,
he would have assuredly been given the
glad hand and acquainted with the Gov-
ernment’s requirements, which are de-
tailed on Form 40.
A reproduction of Form 40, con-
densed :
Application for Admission of Relative or
Friend to Australia.
Note. —A separate form should be used
for each person. In the case of a married
man who will be accompanied by his wife
and/or minor children, their names may
be included on this form.
The Secretary,
Department of Immigration,
Canberra.
I.
?f desire permission to
introduce to Australia the following per-
son who is of nationality
and is Jewish,
is not
The Nominee is personally known to
is not
me.
The Nominee will engage in the following
occupation in Australia ’.....
There is nothing about housing, it being
doubtless taken for granted that housing
will have been provided for, perhaps, by
Jewish eviction of returned soldiers, of
which the president of the N.S.W. branch
of the Diggers’ league has been complain-
ing, citing a specific case. More from
Form 40:
I attach certified copies and English trans-
lations of documents as evidence of the
Nominee’s qualifications.
The maximum amount of money in Aus-
tralian currency which the Nominee will
■ bring with him will be £
It has come out that one “nominee”
arrived with “more than £40,000,” how
made, and where and when being left
to the imagination. It would seem that
these people are not required to account
for their possessions, nor does the in-
formation to be furnished by the spon-
soring Relative or Friend err on the in-
quisitive side. It is sufficient if he fills
in particulars like these:
I am a native of
Nationality (if naturalised, state “British by
Naturalisation”)
Length of residence in Australia
I am married
single
In effect an unnaturalised single person
is authorised to bring a family to Aus-
tralia, a family that “is” or “is not
Jewish,” and the members of the family
need not be “personally known” to him.
“Compared with other countries,” Mr.
Calwell said on August 2, 1945, “Aus-
tralia has no alien problem.” Through
his instrumentality, Australia is acquiring
an alien problem very fast, and his party
is letting him get away with it. So, with
a few shining exceptions, is Parliament.
Cocktail Referendum.
With the end of the war-time boom in
receipts from nearly all sources—railway
revenue alone soared from just under
£20,000,000 in . 1939-40 to upwards of
£34,000,000 in 1942-43 and 1943-44—an-
other period of chronic losses is setting
in at the N.S.W. Government Treasury.
Except for increased Commonwealth con-
tributions which the Commonwealth
cannot afford, having a chronic deficit of
its own notwithstanding its colossal levies
on taxpayers, revenue is stationary, and
in some fields declining, whereas expen-
diture is rising rapidly and, with the in-
evitable swelling of wages and salaries,
will continue to rise. A McKell anticipa-
tion of a surplus of £15,400 for the year
to June 30 has already gone west.
In such a situation, any Government
worth its salt would be cutting unneces-
sary expenditure to the bone, but that is
not “Labor’s” way. Before long' this
“ ‘Labor’ Government” will be debiting
the taxpayers with life pensions for re-
tired and defeated Assemblymen, with
reversion to their widows —pensions sub-
stantially in excess of those given to
wholly-incapacitated servicemen and to
servicemen’s widows and another
“Labor” defeat like those of 1922 and 1932
could mean an initial outlay on this score
of £l2O to £l5O a week this year, increas-
ing with every defeat or retirement of an
Assemblyman. Meanwhile the people are
being forced to carry the burden, the
whole burden, of a costly and unnecessary
referendum on bar-closing hours, an
ignoble transfer of a responsibility which
is accepted as, a Government responsi-
bility in other States, even States with
“Labor” Administrations.
Only the Trade could have asked for
this precious referendum, and that only
because “Labor,” though willing to
oblige the Trade by extending closing
hours (incidentally there are publicans
in its Caucus), was afraid of the political
consequences of a direct gift. The thing
is a characteristically shabby sequel to
an “amended” Liquor Act which, often
promised as a “reform” bill and tardily
introduced, preserves the worst of the
evils which have given the N.S.W. booze
business its brazen quality, from tied
houses (never ever mentioned, much less
struck at) to farcical penalties. Certain
of these may be quoted:
Section 44. —If any holder of a licence
opens, keeps, uses or suffers his premises
to be opened, kept or used in contraven-
tion of the Gaming and Betting Act, 1912,
or any Act amending the same, every such
person so offending shall be liable to a
penalty not exceeding thirty pounds.
Clause 45 (2).—lf any licensee permits
his licensed premises or any portion thereof
to be used for purposes of prostitution he
shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding
thirty pounds.
With automatic cancellation of the
licence in each case? No ; and cancella-
tion of the licence in any case is a most
involved proceeding. There has, first, to
be a formal complaint by a licensing in-
spector. Then section 124 comes in:
Upon any such complaint the Court shall
cancel the licence if the licensee is proved
to have been convicted while being the •
holder of a licence (a) of felony or of any
offence for which he has been sentenced to
imprisonment for hard labor; (b) of per-
mitting his premises to be used for pur-
poses of prostitutibn; (c) four times within
three years of any offence (whether of the
same or different kinds) against this Act.
Should Bung be behind other bars the
licence may be transferred to any adult
member of his family. Indeed, sweeping
discretionary powers are vested in
Licensing Courts :
Section 78b. —In any proceedings against
a licensee for an offence against any of the
provisions of this Act the Court may, if
it thinks fit direct that the conviction
shall not be recorded against the licensee
or the licensed premises.
And it is provided that “the holder of
a publican’s licence or of a spirit mer-
chant’s licence or of an Australian wine
licence” may, with the sanction of a
Licensing Court, “remove his licence
from his licensed premises to any other
premises” in the same licensing district
(Section 39); say, from an over-pubbed
part of a seedy industrial suburb to a
publess residential suburb like Cremorne.
But there is fto provision for the people
in the publess area to veto the transfer by
local-option poll. All the local-option
clauses in previous enactments have been
struck out of the “amended” Act, being
replaced by eight lines of asterisks.
Yet the people in publess areas, as well
as all other areas, are required to vote
on closing hours. Voting is compulsory,
and so is marking of preferences. It is
obligatory on those who prefer six-o’clock
closing to give second and third votes to
nine-o’clock and ten-o’clock, otherwise
their ballot-papers will be informal. This
is unfair and ridiculous; but then the
whole business is ridiculous and unfair, as
well as being a white-livered abdication
of responsibility on the part of the
“Government.”
Six-o’clock closing, tempered to pub-
licans by Police Department fiat, has been
the law for 30 years. It works invidi-
ously in many cases, especially those of
toilers who, as in the present season,
kno'ck off with parching throats when the
sun is still high in the heavens and have
time only for a quick beer or for several
quick beers. It is thus the cause of a
great amount of excessive drinking; and
there is nothing so vividly suggestive of a
hog-swill as a crowded bar between 5.30
p.m. and 6 p.m.
But extension of closing till 10 p.m.
would mean giving the Trade a rich con-
cession which it has not earned. The
cheerful hearty host of English-inn story
and picture is rarely to be encountered
on the N.S.W, landscape. In his place
there is apt to be a surly and greedy
lout who, during the war, was always out.
of bottled stuff, though the blackmarket
was full of it. The standard of N.S.W.
pubs is low, so low that the Police Com-
missioner and the “Labor” Minister of
Immigration and Tourist Activities have
recently been heard in acid condemnation
of it, though the Minister was ignomin-
iously silent when the Liquor “Amend-
ment” Bill was going through. During
the war many publicans, with the con-
nivance of the “Government,” shut their
bars when it suited them, but neverthe-
less contrived to make money hand over
fist. If the Trade withdrew its support
from racing, owners of horses and Big
Punters would be missing in large
numbers.
Even now many bars, especially in the
City of Sydney, are closed on Saturday
afternoons, it being alleged that they
have nothing to sell. Accepting this as
true for the sake of argument (though it
is, generally speaking, an impudent lie,
and the whole thing shows how, under
the McKell Act and administration, the
Trade can get away with anything), there
is no evidence that they would
have anything more to sell if they
were allowed to keep open until
10 o’clock six nights of the week.
Nor can it be contended that the change
would bring about a general improvement
in the conduct of hotels or adequate
police protection for the public, especially
women, in places where larrikins already
abound and crimes against the person
are on the increase.
It is not too late to call off this cock-
tail referendum. If taken at all it should
be taken concurrently with the general
election, for which the parties are already
preparing; but the idea should never
have been entertained. Passing the buck
to the electors is a cowardly surrender
of duty ; and there are sure to be nasty
consequences whatever the verdict. For
if 6 o’clock wins, as seems likely, there
will be an immediate demand for a prohi-
bition poll, and neither Ministry nor
Opposition, however constituted, will
stand up against it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Murder With Impunity.
The Australian “Government” must
know something of what is going on in
Indonesia, for it has agreed to grant the
Netherlands Indies Government a credit
of £7,500,000. But, having no concern
for the fate of its nationals, it has left
it to the Dutch to collect and
make public the facts surrounding
the murder of Squadron-Leader Birchall,
Captain A. S. MacKenzie and Flight-
Lieutenant McDonald last April at
Buitenzorg, Java, by “Indernesian com-
rades” of our Communist-controlled
maritime unions.
The evidence shows that the murders
were carried out by two officers of the
Indonesian “Republican Army” and
subordinates. The Dutch have named
them: Lieutenants Boestomi and Sobo-
erdi; Oeho, Koestiman, Karta and
Roesli —the last two being Japs who
were collaborating with the Commos’
friends.
The Australians were not belligerents
against the Indonesians but war-crimes
officers engaged in a search for Aus-
tralian prisoners-of-war. They were am-
bushed in a motor-car and attacked.
Squadron-Leader Birchall escaped when
the others were killed. Alonif with a
British Army captain, he was taken by
the Republicans and shot by order of a
Major Toha.
The Republicans then found themselves
in a difficulty, in that the British officer
whom they held and who had witnessed
the murders had escaped and could tell
the story. The Republican Resident at
Buitenzorg gave instructions that an “in-
quiry” should be held and a report pre-
sented placing the blame on the shoulders
of the two Japanese, who, he ordered,
must never fall into the hands of the
British or Dutch. The two Japs then
“committed suicide.”
The Dutch report remarks that “not
one of the Indonesian murderers of the
Australians was ever arrested, let alone
convicted.” »
It might have added that the Australian
“Government,” which has pursued to the
point of ruin an officer who led the last
forays against the Japanese at Singapore,
but who was anathema to Communists,
has not even made a serious attempt to
inquire into the facts of the Java
murders in any effective way.
But this is quite normal to an Ad-
ministration which has set si limit of £5
as the highest amount which can be paid
to the native widows of Sandakan whose
husbands were tortured, beheaded or
otherwise done to death for their succor
of Australian prisoners.
There is a saying that Governments
are reflections of those they govern. It
is to be hoped that this is not true of
Australians in the mass. If it is true we
must be a base, ungrateful lot.
At any rate, the Dutch must have
longer and longer thoughts about the
Australian “Government.” While/ it
allows the murder of Australians by In-
donesian officials to pass without so much
as an effective protest, it is still tolerat-
ing the waterside workers’ criminal boy-
cott of Dutch vessels. The Tasman, one of
them, was refused tugs to ease it up the
difficult approach of Princes Pier, with
the result that the ship for a time was in
serious difficulties and was tied up only
after the wharf had been damaged and
lives had been endangered.
Parliament should see to it that a
demand is made upon the Indonesian
“Republic” for the trial of the criminals,
and that, in accordance with international
practice in such cases, the Indonesians
indemnify the relatives of the murdered
men and assist substantially in their
maintenance.
Victoria Gets It Again.
Victoria’s reconditioned bushfire-preven-
tion service had its first real test last
week, when the mercury rose to 104 and
a 40-m.p.h. wind started extensive forest,
grass and crop fires. Even so, the day
was nothing like the days in 1939 and
previous years when dozens of timber
townships in narrow funnels between
huge Gippsland forests were reduced to
cinders and ashes and scores of people
perished ; or the day on which Warren-
dyte, near Melbourne, was wiped out so
quickly that women and children had to
rush for protection to the Yarra. The
temperature on those days reached 115
in some cases and the wind touched 60
m.p.h.
Last week’s conflagrations destroyed
thousands of pounds’ worth of houses,
crops, stock and pastures. Torquay and
Anglesea were threatened with destruc-
tion, and hundreds of people had to seek
refuge on the sea beach. Between dunes
and Ballarat the fires cut a wide swathe
of devastation. Only a lucky change
of wind saved districts close to Mel-
bourne. Gangs of fire-fighters, gallant, as
usual, saved property and persons all
over the country. Nevertheless there was
lack of co-ordination once more.
The Forests Commission has 54 fire-
towers, 25 lookouts, 900 brigades and
50,000 fighters. The Country Fire
Authority has a huge organisation and
tons of equipment. What the show lacked
was the eyes of the Air Force. Accord-
ing to a Forests Commission official only
four planes were supplied by the
R.A.A.F., and at least eight were re-
quired. In effect, the need for the over-
riding authority repeatedly stressed in this
paper remains.
Mr. Nehru "Frees" India.
Almost exactly 200 years sinc% the germ
of British dominion in India was born
through the determination of Dupleix
and his French to drive out the- East
India Company, the new Indian Consti-
tuent Assembly, on the resolution of
Pandit Nehru, who has been taught by
the “oppressor” to talk English with a
Mayfair accent, has declared India a
sovereign independent republic.
The accompanying trimmings of the
resolution were the usual babu stuff
which emanates from the kind of
Indian who is secretly proud of his Eng-
lish public-school and university tradi-
tion and who has acquired with it all the
jargon of British political debate. It de-
clared that “all power and authority”
were “derived from the people” and that
the people must be guaranteed “social
MOTHER THINKS SHE KNOWS BEST.
“While ‘relaxation’ of wage-pegging is still a cause of fierce argument and strikes,
Commonwealth ‘Labor’ politicians, whose £lOOO a year was supplemented by a ‘sitting
fee’ of £1 2s, 6d. a day in March, are agitating for an increase to £l5OO a year.”
“If you’re good I’ll unpeg this one for us."
justice, political justice, equality of
status, opportunity and equality before
the law, freedom of thought, expression,
belief, faith, worship and vocation, sub-
ject to the law and public morality.”
Moreover, “with a constitution for-
mulated to embrace the territories
that now comprise British India, the
Indian States and such other parts of
India as are willing to be constituted into
an independent and sovereign India....
this honored land shall assume its right-
ful place and make its full and willing
contribution to world peace and to the
welfare of mankind.”
It might almost have been Dr. Evatt
talking.
There are several obstacles in the way.
For one thing, there are princes who rule
675,000 square miles (population,
90,000,000) of India’s 1,773,000 square
miles and who have a pledge honored
for 90 years by the British Crown:
We shall respect the rights, dignity and
honor of the native princes as our own.
The princes are exempt from British-
Indian law, save as it affects British sub-
jects, and British policy towards their
principalities has been one of non-inter-
ference, except of necessity.
Especially since the princes have enor-
mous revenues —and India is a land where
money talks loudly to legislators—and
seeing that many of them are Moslems
ruling Hindus, they are not likely to be
complacent of Mr. Nehru’s proposed
changes, which involve robbing them of
a large proportion of their power and
personal incomes. Most of them would
as soon submit to Nehru rule as a leopard
would submit to be driven in harness by
a rabbit.
Mr. Nehru and his kind can shout till
the cows come home that it is “scanda-
lous that the rulers of Indian States are
averse to accepting the people’s
sovereignty.” If those potentates do ac-
cept it it will be on their own terms,
which may be financially such that Mr.
Nehru and his Assembly will be unable
to place taxation on the basis necessary
in a country which must stand on its oWn
feet—under British rule taxation in
India was the lowest in the world, and
India was the only Allied country which
came out of the war with a huge credit
balance.
If the princes do not yield to Nehru
they will have the parallel support of
the Mohammedans to a man. Which
means that, despite anything Mr. Nehru
may do, the old tradition will be re-
verted to ; and irrespective of the form
of government the sub-continent will
find itself ruled, as 200 years ago, by
Mohammedan captains in the event of
British restraint being removed.
Within two days of the announcement
of the Assembly’s resolution the police
in the Punjab were ordered to raid
the offices of the Moslem National Guard
at Lahore, pushing through mobs shout-
ing for “Pakistan,” and to arrest the
Nawab of Mamdot, president of the Pun-
jab Moslem League ; Sir Firozkhan Noon,
formerly Indian High Commissioner in
London and once a member of the Vice-
roy’s council, and others of equal status.
In Bombay there was rioting, with knives
flashing and acid flying through the air
and troops out in full battle kit. In
Madras the police raided the Communist
party offices and arrested 60 comrades.
In Calcutta the authorities quelled student
disorders. In Dacca a state of emergency
was declared in an attempt to liquidate a
local war between Moslems and Hindus.
And everywhere in Hindustan ob-
servers are enjoying the humorous spec-
tacle of the soldiers of the British “op-
pressor” standing by to prevent that
part of the population which does not
want to be “free” in Nehru’s way from
tearing him and his followers to pieces.
Politicians Are Different.
“Jasby” on the little difference:
Just before the House of Commons met
again after the Christmas recess —several weeks
ahead of Canberra a 8.8. C. roundsman
pounced on several members and induced them
to discuss their vacation for the benefit of over-
sea, listeners. All eagerly scouted the vacation
suggestion and told how they had spent the
recess in their electorates interviewing their
constituents, listening to their complaints and
trying to find out their views and wishes.
Federal members reassemble in Canberra on
February 19. Those with metropolitan seats in
N. S. Wales, Victoria and South Australia
shouldn’t have had much difficulty in gauging
public opinion during the —er —recess. Their
wives must surely have had a little to say
about the difficulty of cooking meals without
gas, and in Sydney without meat.
Before and after January 20 a short train or
bus journey would have enabled the Sydney
contingent to learn from fellow-passengers the
state of public opinion on the subject, also
how the average housewife, without access to
blackraarket supplies, feels when vamped-up
waterfront “disputes” remove potatoes from
her menu. On January 20 the Sydney con-
tingent would have drawn a blank —unless
they caugljt a privately-owned bus for
that was the day the tram and bus
men on State-owned trams and buses had
chosen for one of their one-day strikes
as a demonstration of the good old Socialist
doctrine that socialised transport should be
run for the benefit of those who are paid to
run it and not for those who pay to keep
it running, or idle; pay in taxes, as well as
fares.
If members, particularly those on the Gov-
ernment side of the. House, did spend any of
their hoi —er —recess in trying to sound the
pulse of the people on these and similar mat-
ters, they must have done so heavily dis-
guised and have been as silent as the tomb
about their findings. But on one matter of
public interest they have not been idle, if the
Canberra newshounds are on the right trail
and there is every reason to fear they are,
since a report put out in the capital at the
beginning of last week has so far brought no
denial from any “Labor” member, responsible
or irresponsible. The matter on which it is
alleged opinions were sounded out had nothing
to do with gas strikes, butchers’ strikes, water-
front tie-ups, industrial unrest, 40-hour week,
commodity shortages, housing problems and
the other headaches that beset the average
John Cit. and his wife. And John Cit. and his
wife were not among those whose opinions
were sought, nor will they be. Research was
confined to “a broad cross-section of M.H.Rs.
and Senators,” as a result of which “a majority
of Government members are reported to favor
an increase of £250 to £500.” In what? In-
come-tax exemption? Diggers’ pensions? No;
in their own salaries, to be paid by the taxpayers
who misguidedly returned them to office just
four months ago at a salary which not one
of them complained on the hustings was in-
adequate. True, sipce then six defeated
“Labor” members have been appointed to more
remunerative jobs outside the House and it is
possible that a feeling may be growing among
the rank and file that in future elections it
may be a better proposition to lose a seat
than to win it, but nothing in the record of
the leaders of “Labor” suggests they look
ahead three minutes, let alone three years.
And three minutes would be more than
enough for them to discover the implications
of the suggested salary grab, at a time when
the Prime Minister and official “Labor” mouth-
pieces are stressing their allegiance to the
principle of Arbitration and urging the indus-
trial wing to be patient in its demands for
an immediate increase in the basic wage.
According to the Canberra reports a special
sub-committee of Caucus will discuss the salary
grab and make recommendations to Caucus and
then to Cabinet. Will the sub-committee go to
the Arbitration Court? Not on your life!
And it’s a member’s gold pass to a tuppenny
tram ticket that it will not bother to call or
produce any evidence to show that its wives
can’t live or its families be maintained on the
present rates of pay. What are the present
rates? Well, the job isn’t as well paid as
that of, say, the Minister to Canada, but all
things considered the pay’s not bad—£looo a
year; plus £1 2s. 6d. per sitting day (announced
by Mr. Chifley on March 6, when his attitude
was that he would be unable to hold the line
against inflation if the basic-wager got another
bob), plus free travel on Government lines
throughout Australia; plus free stamps and
stationery and use of the Parliamentary bar,
library and dining-room. Then there’s an
allowance of £250 a year for a private sec-
retary, who may be and sometimes is one of
the member’s own family.
A salary grab would be an open, invitation
to the unions to throw overboard the arbi-
tration system, place their own valuation on
their labor and demand Government recog-
nition of it. Consistency is a virtue even in
the vicious, but it is a thing the Chifley Gov-
ernment can never be accused of.
The King's School.
J, H. M. Abbott: The King’s School at
Parramatta is one of Australia’s oldest
institutions, and the proposal to remove
it from its present site, where it has been
for a good deal more than a century, to
a locality in Illawarra (N.S.W.) is ex-
tremely unpopular amongst many who,
like the writer, are Old Boys. We feel
that some sort of protest is necessary in
order to prevent such a thing being done,
and here is mine.
The mere fact of its being necessary
to make a protest at all is to be re-
gretted. To us Old Boys the idea of
moving from Parramatta to Illawarra —
or anywhere else —is a sort of heresy.
It is no exaggeration to say that just
now the school is facing the greatest crisis
in its long history. That it will face it
worthily, and remain where it is, is the
hope of those who feel as I do.
“The King’s” has now a record enrol-
ment of nearly 400 boarders and 100 day-
boys, and the Chapel and Dining Hall
are scarcely able to accommodate them
all. For many years the school has been
handicapped by want, of space and by
the scattered location of its “houses” in
Parramatta, but these are no insuperable
obstacles.
Three years ago the council and the
Old Boys’ Union appointed a small
standing committee to consider the re-
building of the school as a war memorial.
The committee came to the conclusion
that a memorial building should be
erected on anew site not less than
,500 acres in extent, and that money
should be raised for such a purpose.
Then Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Hoskins
offered to the council their house in the
North Wollongong district, together with
£7OOO to help buy additional country.
I quote from a circular sent out to those
interested by two Old Boys who have the
welfare of the school at heart.
Mr. and Mrs. Hoskins’s offer can be
valued at not less than £25,000. In the
opinion of the writers the magnitude of
this offer has overshadowed consideration
of the following fundamental questions:
(a) Whether the school in its best interests
should be removed from its traditional dis-
trict of Parramatta;
(b) Whether the Wollongong area is a
suitable one for the school;
(c) Whether the move to Wollongong is
financially practicable, having regard to the
fact that Mr. and Mrs. Hoskins’s gift
represents five per cent, of the total outlay
involved and that the remaining 95 per
cent, of the cost has to be found by the
school community;
(and) Whether the school council has any
legal power to remove the school from the
Parramatta district.
The Old Boys consider that the school
must be retained within the Parramatta
district .“in order to preserve its tradi-
tional character, its goodwill and the sen-
timent attached to its name.”
Most Old Boys agree with them, what-
ever the council may think. It is certain,
too, that the people of Parramatta are
mainly in agreement with these two Old
Boys, especially as possible sites for new
school buildings are available close to
the old town. The people say the school
cannot be removed to Illawarra unless
the necessary funds are provided by the
school community and approval is given
by Parliament. This is an opinion which
most of us share.


life?
CWff-
-6559
For greater smoking
enjoyment —give me
CRAVEN'A'
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Calwell, now scared, announces (1) that
"Australia” (i.e., himself) has “stopped
issuing landing permits on purely human-
itarian grounds” and (2) is extending a
general invitation to Britons to come here
in unvanquishable numbers, bringing
ships and houses with them. Their own
Government has just intimated that the
situation and outlook are so grim that
Britain needs a much greater labor force
than it possesses; but to Calwell that was
a mere detail.
Even with the wind up, Calwell can’t
help being disingenuous. For example:
A few thousand landing permits were
granted for persons who have relatives
already settled in Australia and who were
in a position to maintain them and pro-
vide accommodation.
He wouldn’t for the world say that the
“persons” were foreign Jews or give the
exact number, though he must have it on
his finger-tips. And so with a comple-
mentary statement:
Some landing permits issued have not
been presented, and I expect many of these
will never be presented,
“Many” of “some”! What value can
be placed on the promise of a Minister
like this?
This is a wonderful country for Com-
munists. In Burma, India and South
Africa last week members of the brother-
hood wefe gathered in for trial on serious
charges. In Australia their co-partners
seized Army buildings, refused tugboat
service to Dutch shipping and declared
an embargo on shipments of tallow and
on exports to Spain. And all without
even a whimper from the “Government”
at Canberra.
The absolute surrender of the Com-
monwealth “Government” to mob law
has been demonstrated again by its failure
to oust the squatting Communists who
took possession of the W.A.A.A.F. hos-
pital at Yeronga (Q.) or counteract the
insolent and well-advertised plan of the
president of the Queensland Communist
party, Comrade Haas, to instal still more
families. Certainly the Government did
take “action” of the Canberra variety ; it
dismissed six guards at the hospital. Be-
cause they let the squatters in? No ; be-
cause they were “no longer necessary”
when the Australian flag had, in effect,
been hauled down and the hammer-and-
sickle flag run up over the commandeered
buildings, which are still national pro-
perty.
From a Brisbane correspondent;
Inspired and organised by Commos, more
homeless Brisbane families have squatted in
Army buildings, this time an empty service hos-
pital at Yeronga. Civilian guards employed by
the Army as caretakers were unable to prevent the
occupation—one said he, had been almost run
down by one of the trucks used by the squatters.
The guards were given three days’ notice of
dismissal, an Army spokesman “explaining”
that since the premises had been “taken over”
there was no further need for the services of
watchmen. Civil police visited the scene, but
took no action beyond warning the squatters
that they were on national property. One
Haas, described as Brisbane district president
of the Communist party, issued a communique
from headquarters to the effect that still more
families would be moving in and that within
three days at least 30 families would be in
residence. Did any protest or threat of eviction
come from the “Government” at Canberra?
None did. Yet in the same week the “Govern-
ment” had another returned soldier, one of
its own employees, with a sick wife about to
go into hospital, evicted from a house at
Canberra.
A Spooner proposal for the amalga-
mation of the N.S.W. Liberal and
Country parties on S.A. lines has been re-
jected by the Country party. With an
Assembly election in prospect, it came
too late anyway. Like the Austrians, with
their Aulic Council, who opposed
Napoleon, the Libs have no conception
of the value of time.
With the greasy magnanimity which
“Labor” Ministers affect when they are
giving away other people’s money, Mc-
Kell announced a donation of £lOO,OOO
“for the purchase of the site on which
Anzac House, Sydney, is to be built.”
There was no occasion for the vicarious
benefaction; the Anzac House appeal
brought in five or six times as much
money as the R.S.L. expected to get.
Recognising the spirit that prompted the
offer of £lOO,OOO, the rival Legion of Ex-
Servicemen straightway asked for a grant
of £70,000 for “Legion headquarters.”
Lord Woolton, Britain’s great war-time
Food Minister, who was second only to
Churchill in the hearts of the nation, has
been magnanimously silent on the efforts
of his “Labor” successors, but his feel-
ings overflowed last week, when the blun-
dering Strachey cut the fresh-meat ration
to a shillingsworth a week:
It is high time we had a break in this
debilitating austerity. Give the people more
food and more freedom and they’ll produce
the goods. An extra pound of meat a
week would give more stimulus to the
miners than arid contemplation of the fact
that the public now owns the coalmines.
Lord Woolton was one of Chamber-
lain’s discoveries, but that seems to have
been forgotten or forgiven.
There were 14,641 traffic accidents in
Victoria in 1946. Number of deaths was
3351, an increase of 124 over the previ-
ous twelve months. It is significant that
in Melbourne itself there were only seven
accident-caused deaths, though the city
has at least 50 p.c. of total Victorian
traffic. The moral is that, while the road-
hog is impervious to safety propaganda,
he has a wholesome fear of the police-
man. There are more cops in the city.
Melbourne “Argus,” publishing the
“fly-flat” Elliott Roosevelt’s interview with
the Russian dictator, ran up the heading
“Stalin Dispels War Fear.” Exactly what
many Poles, Finns, Letts, Estonians,
Lithuanians and Rumanians thought to
the end of August, 1939, when they re-
membered Moscow’s non-aggression pacts
with and glozing assurances to their
Governments. Many, but not all.
Having stood silent on the Wimmera
plain for four years without seeing a
grain of saleable wheat, the power-alcohol
distillery at Warracknabeal, btiilt to
oblige Wilson, since “provided for” in
Norfolk Island, is at last to be put to
some use. It will hold a million bushels
of 1946-47 wheat because of insufficient
storage capacity at terminal and country
elevators. The thing cost £425,000.
“I did not become the King’s First
Minister to preside over the liquidation
of the British Empire.” Such was
Churchill’s majestic statement in a very
dark hour; and now that the blessings
of peace have returned Attlee could not
repeat it with his hand on his heart.
Nowadays, by the look of things, every
strutting Babu or dandy colored coon who
calls at No. 10 Downing-street goes away
with the promise of a piece of the empire,
If he loses his job as leader of the
Polish Peasant party, M. Mikolaczyk
should find no ’ in getting work
as a prophet. Three days before the
Polish “election” he said polling figures
for his party had been “fixed by the
Government at 8 per cent, of the vote.”
The final results will not be out till next
week, but those made available over
Russian Radio give the provisional voting
proportions as a “ten-to-one Government
majority over all other parties,” which
will make the Peasant-party leader about
right. There are two minority parties
besides the Peasants.
All the Allied Powers have completed
their cases against General Tojo and his
25 fellow-prisoners on charges of com-
mitting crimes against peace and
humanity. It took 150 days to put the
case and there were 4,000,000 words of
evidence. Matsuoka and Admiral Na-
gano, two of the prime movers in bring-
ing about war, died during the tnah and
the American prosecutor succumbed to a
heart attack as the last evidence for the
Allies was given. If the defence is as
long-winded as the prosecution the whole
matter may have to be settled by giving
those who survive it the old-age pension.
It used to be thought by party organis-
ations and election agents that doctors
were about the best of all candidates ;
but doctors have fared rather poorly in
recent years. Chemists seem to have
taken their place. For example, Rex
Townley, the Hobart chemist, topped the
poll at the Tasmanian Assembly elections,
getting nearly twice as many votes as
were given to Premier Cosgrove in Deni-
son. Townley is an Independent, and
so is Read, who wrested Victoria Park
(W.A.) from “Labor” at an Assembly
by-election in 1944. Read has made good,
and “Labor” not only expects him to
hold the seat but has him in mind for
the Speakership if it should be level
pegging at the March election.
The Bulletin has a kindness for the
“Hebrew Standard,” and was prepared
for its dignified protest against “the
Jewish Immigration Racket” article (B.
8/1 / ’47), so different in tone from the
asperities of the Sydney law professor
who attacked Isaac Isaacs and British
policy in Palestine in a book not now
purchasable. And since the Shanghai
refugees were here referred to, it is only
fair to publish the “Hebrew Standard’s”
reply:
They left Europe between 1938 and 1940.
Later, of course, escape from inside Hitler’s
Fortress was impossible. Mtost of them
went to Shanghai because admission could
be gained without formality. They were
certainly in Shanghai under the Japanese
occupation, but they were far from being
“footloose.” On the contrary, they were
herded into a former Chinese slum area,
from which they could not leave save with
a permit, granted grudgingly, if at all, by
a notoriously brutal Japanese guard.
Interesting, though a,trifle unconvinc-
ing. Necessarily the “Hebrew Standard’s”
evidence is second-hand.
The N.S.W. delegates to the Teachers’
Federation conference at Perth demanded
representation based on numerical
strength, and, on the other delegations ob-
jecting, they walked out. Their leader, one
Lewis, is a Left-Winger, and as such is
used to the atmosphere of the Sydney
Labor Council. ’ But before he retired
Wallace, the president, a Westralian
teacher, addressed him in good set terms:
You are like a small boy who takes his
cricket bat to school and when he doesn’t
get all the hits goes home. Instead of doing
anything to help education in Australia,
your action could do irreparable damage.
I advise you, if you are an Australian
unionist, to think this matter over. It is
all right to bring down the foundations
but sometimes you may find the house
fall on you.
Lewis thought the matter over and led
his cohorts back.
There are so many “Labor” pocket
boroughs in Westralia that the party
could retain office with miich less than
half the Assembly votes. Though it lost
two seats at by-elections it wound up the
last Parliament with 29 out of 50. The
Opposition expects to gain Avon and
Perth, and has hopes of Pilbara, Middle
Swan, Bunbury and Mount Hawthorn,
from which last suburban electorate the
aged ex-Minister Millington, who has
always polled a strong personal vote, is
retiring. But the arrangement of electoral
boundaries is heavily against the Opposi-
tion, “Labor” having abandoned the
principle of equal electorates, as it has
abandoned so many other things.
“Commonwealth officers” in Sydney
are quoted as having admitted that there
are “two rival organisations trying to
get refugee immigrants from China,” one
representing White Russians and the other
Red Prussians. The Communists were
silent on the charge levelled at them, but
a Brisbane man, Andrew Clarke, director
of the Russian and European Christian
Mission, admitted that “10,000 White
Russians” were “waiting to come to Aus-
tralia from Shanghai,” He added that
“more than 200 applications from White
Russians” had been “forwarded to the Im-
migration Department several months
ago,” and “disregarded; it seems that
only Jews can enter Australia.” The
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” notes CalwelTs
statement that “he is a little weary”;
and he was certainly too weary to answer
that one.
If McKell goes to Yarralumla he will
get £lO,OOO p.a., free of income tax ; £B5B
3s. 6d. a week. A taxpayer to have
£lO,OOO after payment of income tax and
social-services contribution would require
to earn a salary of £44,625; and no
such person is known.
In Queensland Labor they have put the
brake on the cash-order business. New
legislation limits the amount of any one
order to £lO, and interest to 9d, in the
pound ; also it protects a husband against
recovery of the money when his wife takes
a cash-order without his consent, stops
canvassing and provides for licensing of
cash-order concerns. Needed reforms,
all of them, with stopping of canvassing
the main thing.
A production depression having
arrived, rationing officials announced
that Australia “will face the worst cloth-
ing shortage in its history” by next July.
Persons living in non-Labor electorates
should profit by past experience and
move as quickly as possible into Labor
electorates —if they can.
On the Victorian Government’s pro-
gramme is the creation of a Department
of Housing with headquarters in Mel-
bourne. One site for the projected build-
ing is in William-street with a frontage
of 103 ft.; price, in the region of £3OO a
foot. It is gratifying to know that at least
one section of the community, and that
not a small one, will be housed properly.
The “national electric undertaking” to
be submitted by the Cains to the Com-
monwealth committee on the use of
Snowy River waters will, it is estimated,
have nearly three times the capacity of
Yallourn, nearly four times the output of
Bunnerong and at least six times the
prospective output of the Victorian Kiewa
scheme. As the Cains vision the thing,
five huge power stations will generate the
juice and when the job is completed a
handful of engineers will provide alt the
labor necessary and make Victoria prac-
tically immune from striking miners. Bui
this won’t be, for years and years.
The Australian Automobile Association
is asking the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to cut petrol tax from 11 Id. a
gallon to 6d. from next July. It wants the
States to get 4£d. of it for roads and the
balance to go to social services. Tax-
payers shouldn’t be too ready to offer
anything for social services; that form
of Government benevolence is going to
be the excuse for retention of war taxes.
Comedy at a cost of £250,000 a year:.
When motoring organisations began
urging abolition of petrol rationing, Can-
berra replied that Britain had asked for
' it to be kept on. This was soon exploded
when it came out that the British Gov-
ernment intended to abolish petrol ration-
ing in March. Australian consumers got
an increase. Everybody but Canberra in-
sisted that further rationing was unneces-
sary. Senator Ashley, the Supply Minister,
extended the currency of November ration
tickets and again increased the ration. The
protests went oh. Then Senator Ashley
announced that December tickets would be
worth double their face value for petrol;
but, taking thought that his argument might
be weakened, he hurriedly announced that
no more would be issued until February.
Meantime, petrol can be got anywhere.
Maddened motorists can’t be blamed for
concluding that Ashley has no other
object in mind but keeping fuel-board
employees in their jobs.


SONG-SCENE FROM “THE CORSAIRS OF CANBERRA.”
I am the very model of a modern Gov’nor-Gineral,
A C.-in-C. with information, animal and mineral;
I know the Kings of Stadiumland, and quote the fights historical
From Darcy’s to the Patrick boy’s, in order categorical;
Nor is my knowledge limited to matters pugilistical:
All dead-game sports refer to me in phrases eulogistical.
The A.L.P., the Trade as well, acclaim my bent for strategy—
They’ll say a better Gov'nor-GinerAJL has never sat a gee.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Becks”; If and when I reach the stage
where my affairs are entrusted to the
N.S.W. Public Trustee I’ll rest serenely
in my grave confident that they couldn’t
be in better hands. I’ll have no fear that
any reckless action on his part will dissi-
pate the few pence remaining after the
creditors and taxation authorities have
taken their whack. Caution is his watch-
word and he takes nothing for granted.
How do I know? Well, I have just filled
in a form for him. It requires particulars
concerning a deceased person and his
estate. After asking his’full name, last
place of residence, place of death and
exact date of death it proceeds: If not
bom in N.S.W., has he decided to remain
permanently in N.S.W. ? The person in
question was not born in N.S.W., but as
he was cremated in Sydney six months
ago I took a chance and said “Yes.”
* * * *
“H.V.P.”: Slick salesmanship (“Justin,”
B. 8/1 /’47)! Years ago my father was
in Sydney for the Easter Show. One
morning he took a stroll round the shops
and paused outside a tailor’s. While
he was examining suits shown in the
window a man came bustling out, caught
Dad by the shoulders and pushed him in-
side. A couple of men then took charge.
Quick as lightning a tape was run over
him, measurements were jotted down, and
before the victim’s thunder of remon-
strance had time to break he was back
in the street, minus the deposit on a
made-to-order suit. The stage of em-
ploying a lawyer was almost reached be-
fore the outfit was received. Every time
it was worn its color and its fit brought
forth from its owner a tornado of abuse
on the ways of city sharks.
* * * £
Jasby”: When Chips Rafferty and
Harry Watt left their hoofmarks in
cement in the foyer of Sydney Lyceum
ommernora te the world premiere of
Ihe Overlanders,” there were shudders
irom those who resent the Australian
tendency to ape Hollywooden ways. But
can Hollywood claim to have originated
the idea? Sixty years ago Du Maurier
had his artists’ colony in Paris treasuring
an impression of Trilby’s foot, and in any
Sydney suburb there are preserved foot-
prints that probably pre-date Hollywood’s
earliest. On my way home I pass a long
line of electric-light poles that have stood
for 30 or 40 years. They are embedded
in concrete and the workmen who erected
them did a thorough and conscientious
job. When one post was completed they
did not sit around waiting for the con-
crete to set hard, but passed on to the
next. And in their train came the dogs
of the neighborhood. Large and small,
they hastened to inspect the work and to
place the seal of their approval upon it.
Several doggy generations have come and
gone since then, but the footprints of
those first visitors are still preserved in the
concrete. Hollywood customs? Bah!
•.♦ * m
“D.A.”; Some Government or other
will just have to recommend that General
John Northcott, Governor of N. S. Wales,
be given a knightly handle to his name.
It is all very confusing, especially with
the Governor’s lady as plain “Mrs.” Even
Calwell’s Department of Information got
into a tangle about it recently. In its
latest issue of “Facts and Figures” the
department published a picture of “Lieut.-
General Sir John Northcott, the first
Australian-born Governor of New South
Wales, signing the-writ for the 1946 elec-
tion of Senators for N. S. Wales.” After
printing the issue each copy had to be
gone through and the “Sir” (it occurred
twice) obliterated. No similar error
is likely to occur in the event of W. J.
McKell becoming G.-G.
* * * *
“Walga”: The change in the weekly
balancing day of the banks from Monday
to Wednesday, though welcomed by the
majority of bank officers, will cause many
“small customers” to think back to what
Monday used to mean to them., In the
days before wars knocked all bank figures
kite high, the number of small traders
and others who were carried along with
temporary assistance from their local
branch manager was legion. They all
knew that Monday was balance day, and
returns went to head office as at that
date, so the interview usually ended with
the words “I’ll have the account O.K. on
I'll make you up a gargle of D.D.T., Mrs. Harbottle—youve got
a germ.”
Monday.” I remember one town where
30-odd years ago the pub, then
open till 11 p.m., was the general meet-
ing-place on Saturday nights. One of the
lads of the village who was pretty well
off would be sure of several invitations
to “have one,” While the beer was be-
ing slowly sipped, the shouter would open
up with “Well, Bill, it’s Monday again,”
and before parting Bill would have ex-
changed his cheque for a tenner for one
dated Tuesday for the same amount. Not
only to the lads who the ledgers
was a Monday holiday considerably off-
set by having to balance the ledgers on
Saturday, but to the temporary overdrawn
customers the holiday was spoiled by the
telephone calls which would go out on
Friday from the bank —brief, but to the
point—“ls that you, So-and-So? Don’t
forget tomorrow is Monday.” May all
the good chaps who came good on Mon-
day be carried on till Wednesday!
* * * *
“Butcher B.”: ,If turned-up trouser-
cuffs are an annoyance to “M. Turlutu”
(B. 1/1 / ’47), they are a curse to men of
my calling on account of the sawdust
that accumulates in them. You should
hear what my wife says about it on
washing-day. And I’m never allowed to
put my feet on the table; the sawdust
spills out everywhere. And, while on
the subject, of what use are double cuffs
on a shirt except as an excuse fpr cuff-
links. The single cuff, fastened with a
button, will do me. Short sleeves are
better still.
* * * «
“Gumsucker”: “Primer” (B. 25/12/’46)
is wrong in thinking that the Commos
who have captured Eureka would be
shocked if they had a few words with
the old-timers of Clunes. Withers tells
the story in his History of Ballaarat.
Sometime in the 70’s the Clunes United
G.M., finding its ore values on the down-
grade, decided on a reduction of wages,
and when this was met with a strike it
decided to bring Chinese from Bal-
larat to act as strike-breakers. This re-
sulted in a semi-riot, two coachloads of
Celestials being intercepted just outside
Chines by a deputation of the strikers’
wives and “induced” to turn back. Later
coachloads were escorted by mounted
police, and the strike was broken. Withers
names Peter Lalor as the chairman of the
company. 'But the Commos shouldn’t
really be shocked by the employment of
Chinese as strike-breakers; they place
the abolition of a White Australia well
in the forefront of their platform.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”; I haul down my flag to
“Tresco” (B. 15/1/’47) on the question
of the ship in which Princes Albert and
George toured the world a matter of
66 years ago, and will award him copies
of the two volumes compiled from the
diaries of the two Princes after the adven-
ture—when I can find them. My naming
of Britannia was a slip of the pen (owing
to constant association of the King’s
name with his yacht), for Bacchante. But
as to whether Dr. Dalton, the Princes’
tutor, had whiskers, I am not now sure.
Both “Tresco” and I have our informa-
tion from group photographs—mine from
one taken in Brisbane. It informed me
that the reverend chaplain wore a suit
of whiskers fit to serve either as a col-
lision mat, an aircraft landing ship or
a matting wicket. Perhaps some caption
writer was dastard enough to put the
names on one of the photographs in the
wrong place.
* * * #
“Ken”; Best-attuned ears I know be-
long to a group of operators at a large
railway telegraph office. At busy times
over 30 circuits may be chattering away
at once, yet each operator is able to
concentrate on his own sounder. During
slack periods the staff usually congregates
outside the office, but the first tick-tack
of a sounder inside will call the right
man to the right key. Incidentally, I
have known veteran 30 w.p.m. line tele-
graphy men to confess themselves
stumped by the dit-dahs of radio tele-
graphy, and, though I have had my share
of key-pounding as a ship’s operator,
I’ve never been able to make sense of
the tick-tacking of the sounder at the
local post-office.-
•*# * *
“El Verdugo”; Granny “Herald” was
funny enough when the prize “social
document” she recently ran dwelt (with
editorial bursts of indignation behind it)
on the dire poverty of Surry Hills.
Granny’s Milesian hero had nothing to
support him and his family but the basic
wage (at least), the pension of his aged
ma-in-law, the pay of a daughter (factory
hand) and the rent of two sub-let rooms.
The condition of this poor wight, com-
pelled to pay four-and-six for his muscat
and owning only two pairs of frayed
pants, caused me dire grief until his half-
caste prospective son-in-law, Charlie,
appeared in the scene. Charlie is a
printer’s machinist, a skilled calling
for which he qualified by wandering
the bush tracks with a swaggie.
So desperate is the state of this poor
lad that he cannot buy his bride more
than a cheap turquoise ring, cannot take
her further for her honeymoon than
Narrabeen, a heaven from which dire
poverty has hitherto excluded the pair,
and can provide no home, for her save
one of pa-in-law’s sub-let rooms, with
“worn and hideous lino., crude blue
kalsomined walls the bed sagging for-
lornly, the blankets ... . stained with
tea and coffee and a dozen other un-
analysable things,” its outlook, through a
single window, “across the crammed and
hideous backyards full of garbage-cans.
tomcats and lavatories with swinging,
broken doors and rusty, buckled iron
roofs.'’ I admit that the poor bloke can’t
do much more on a printer’s-machinist
wage of about eight quid a week. All
my missus runs (fares included) on an
allowance less than that for current
living expenses and rent for two is an
ultra-modern four-roomed flat, with h. and
c. and all electric equipment in a higher-
class North Shore suburb. But then neither
of us drinks four and sixpenny muscat.
* * * *
“F.S.”: High taxation in Britain is
hitting ducal art collections, and one of
the greatest booms in art-sales history
is only just beginning. Christie’s and
Sotherby’s report joint sales of over 3£
millions, mainly to U.S. buyers, in the
last 12 months, and some of the‘prices
are fantastic. Constable’s “Stratford
Mill,” which cost its owner £8925 in
1895, was sold the other day for £43,050,
the highest figure ever paid for a land-
scape by an English painter. Much the
same thing occurred in France after the
1870 war, when taxes rose to pay the Ger-
man indemnity and even chateaux were
transported over the Atlantic. The Gov-
ernment finally had to step in and appoint
a Ministry of Fine Arts, which declared
important works of art national
memorials which couldn’t be sold over-
seas without permission. This had some
curious effects. In pre-war days an Aus-
tralian artist was offered a chateau, com-
plete with moat and drawbridge, for the
trifling sum of £soo—he was renting it
for 30s. per week. Its owner preferred
a modern villa in the village. The only
snag was that the Australian would have
had to live in the chateau as it stood.
Shifted to Australia its value would have
been almost priceless.
* * * *
“J.H.”; There is nothing new about
price-fixing and rationing. In the six-
teenth cfentury at a time of great scarcity
of food in Scotland Parliament sought to
regulate supplies. An elaborate scale
was drawn up, grading each man’s diet
by his social position. Earls and arch-
bishops were allowed eight courses for
dinner, and no more; lords and deans,
whose appetites were apparently presumed
to be smaller, were limited to six, and a
mere burgess had to stave off the pangs of
hunger as best he could with three
courses. The statutory price for a rabbit
was 12d., that of a hare 2d., while tame
geese had to be sold at 16d. Later on
“meatless days” were ordained, and “the
licentious eating of flesh” more than four
times a week was prohibited unless on a
certificate from a doctor or a minister
of religion.
* * * *
“Ceg”; That yarn of “Sextant’s” (B.
15/1/’47) of the burst boiler-tube on the
old Waterhen, during an attack on Bardia,
took me back to a dark night of Gallipoli
in 1915. As we clambered in the dark-
ness from the Osmanieh on to barges all
was silent. We crept slowly towards the
beach, in tow of a Greek tugboat. Sud-
denly there was a flash of light and a,
shattering noise almost alongside our
barge. When we were able to speak, “The
Queen Elizabeth,” we whispered to each
other —very much awed. Came the morn-
ing light and we discovered that the fire
had come from the small gunboat, Irene.
She used to inch in close to the shore,
throw a beam from her searchlight up
one of the gullies, let go a salvo and then
blackout again.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Phizgig, a mew-
comer to the district and the Roads
Board, was fired with determination to
stop what he termed the “family graft.”
He protested against the employment of
the chairman’s son as assistant pound-
keeper, and successfully opposed the
nomination of the retiring secretary’s
son for his dad’s job. When “old” Bill
Jimms, the caretaker, became ill and
resigned, the suggestion that his job be
taken over by his son, “young” Bill,
brought Phizgig fuming to his feet. The
chairman pointed out, patiently, that the
Jimms were the oldest residents of the
district, that the father had rendered
loyal service for more years than he
could remember and that “young” Bill
was prepared to accept what was, after
all, a modest wage. Phizgig fulminated
against the unholy practice of hand-
ing down jobs, declaring that the
position should be filled by some old
pensioner and not by a husky youngster,
and demanded the calling of applications.
But the board, in a resentful mood, out-
voted him. Some nights later P. went
along to the town hall to test the new
caretaker’s watchfulness and was accosted
by a bearded old warrior of 70. Agree-
ably surprised, and thinking that his pro-
tests had produced some effect, he
introduced himself and inquired the
caretaker’s name, “Jimms!” he said.
“I thought you’d resigned.” “Naw,” the
oldster told him. “That was old Bill.
I’m young Bill, his son.” Phizgig is still
trying to readjust his logic to the idiosyn-
crasies of local nomenclature.
A HANDY OFFER.
“A .Sydney second-hand dealer offered Premier Mc-
Kell, prospective Governor-General, a London-made
Court suit, complete with knee-breeches, cocked hat,
silk stockings, sword, etc., for twenty guineas.”
—■“Sunday Telegraph
Though second-hand, it’s anything but far gone
In style, and not a whit the worse for wear;
All things required, it’s stated in the jargon
That tailors use, are definitely there.
It looks to be a veritable bargain,
Especially as duds so rich and rare
Are obviously beyond the workmanship
Of any but a first-class London snip.
From top to toe it’s glittering and glistery
As any seen at levees, devil a doubt!
But if you’re curious about its history
And who it was that put it up the spout,
And what he raised on it —well, that’s a mystery
You’ll never have a chance to ferret out.
There’s honor, as in pop-shops, among those
.Who traffic in negotiable clothes.
Was it some Governor, beset by clamant
Tradesmen in some dark days of long ago,
Who had to barter his official raiment
For an immediate advance in dough?
Some spendthrift nobleman, hard-pressed for
payment
Of bills that he’d have much preferred to
owe
Who had to hock his wardrobe? Who can
say?
And how does it concern us anyway?
“Fine clothes are good, but only for supplying
The want”—l’m quoting wise old Johnson’s
words —
“Of any other means for justifying
Claims to respect.” And yet the common
herd’s
Quite ready to believe, there’s no denying,
The dictum that fine feathers make fine birds,
And to endorse the moral Pope has drawn:
“A saint in crape is twice a saint in lawn.”
A real Court suit, McKell, and sure to fit you,
With Savile Row stamped in its artistry!
The price at twenty guineas ought to hit you,
And though* it’s true that you can hardly be,
And carping tongues will scruple to admit you,
A thoroughly acceptable G.-G.,
Still in this rig, when all is said and done,
You shouldn’t find it hard to look like one
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Gravelsnatcher”: I once almost quali-
fied for membership of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation. The occasion was
the arrival back in Australia of the Sixth
and Seventh Divvies in 1942. As
first arrivals, we were given the task,
with which the lumpers couldn’t cope,
of unloading the ships and re-
loading them with stores for Eng-
land. Our agitators pointed out the
similarity between our daily rate of pay
and the lumpers' hourly rate and con-
vinced us that the path, of true patriotism
lay along go-slow lines. A self-constituted
spokesman conveyed our sentiments to
lumpers on adjacent boats and received
their approval, tempered a little by the
knowledge that enemy planes were strik-
ing a bare two- or three-thousand miles
away. We did a certain amount of work,
of course. There were incentives. An
eight-hour working day—imagine it!
and nightly leave to taste some of the
amenities of civilian life. But our acti-
vities were confined, to quote our agi-
tators, to doing the necessary minimum.
On the completion of the job our O.C.
received a letter from someone in
authority. That’s why I say I almost
qualified for membership. That epistle
thanked our team for its magnificent
effort, and assured us that never before
had ships in that port been handled so
expeditiously,
* Hi sfc *
“Findy”; I’ll endorse “Hamer’s” find-
ing on the drinking quality of Sydney
water (B. 22/1/’47). but what impressed
me more when I came to live under the
shadow of the Bridge was the Ma city’s
bread. In Adelaide I had accepted bread
as something which, like cabbage, was
good for you but unpalatable. At my
first Sydney diggings I found myself
actually enjoying the bread and concluded
that the local baker had some secret
recipe of his own. Later experience con-
vinced me that almost any Sydney loaf
was better than almost any Adelaide loaf.
Day-baking has shaken me a little, but
I still like Sydney bread from Tuesday
to Friday. I’ve always assumed that the
reason must be a basic one, a difference
in the milling of the flour, or perhaps in
the grain itself, but “Hamer’s” par. sug-
gests to me that the water may have some-
thing to do with it. Yet the good water
goes into the beer, and I don’t like the
beer.
* * * *
“Eve”: On a Pyrmont bus I heard
this little dialogue between two girls. No.
1: “Where you goin’?” No. 2: “Town,
to pay the rent.” No. 1, with an ex-
plosive laugh of amazement: “Pay the
rent? ’Struth, ain’t y’r dad got guts
enough to say No?”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Have just received from an
Adelaide paper a manuscript with the
customary “The Editor regrets” slip
attached. Nothing unusual in that, of
course, but the manuscript was sub-
mitted in August, 1936. It came back in
the stamped envelope that had accom-
panied it, the stamp being a King George
V one-penny, a relic of the good old days
when one penny was sufficient to ensure
the return of any manuscript. Strangely
enough the postal department did not
rub it in by making me pay excess post-
age.
* * * *
“Quilliam-street”: The Bedser twins
and the pair “Hacksaw” wrote about (B.
22/1/’47) had nothing on two brothers
I knew years ago. Bob and Frank
looked alike, talked alike, acted alike;
they were good footballers and they ran
and kicked alike. Apprenticed in an
engineering shop, Bob lost the top joint
of his left index finger by putting it in
a lathe at the wrong time. It was bad
luck for him, but privately we all re-
joiced. We now had a means of dis-
tinguishing between the brothers—for a
while. Bob was the one with the finger-
stall, then, when the wound healed, the
one with the stump. Meeting one of
them in the street we would sneak a
quick glance at his left hand before
greeting him, But only for a year or so.
“Hacksaw” can explain it as coincidence,
association, the mystic bond of Gemini,
or what he will, but one day Frank, who
“We haven't an invalid-chair, but this one is pretty sick"-
was a grocer’s assistant, was working a
hacon-slicer when bingo! off it came.
Same finger, same joint.
Hi * * *
“T.H.M.”: An old model car had
cracked up in the steering, and the road-
side mechanic called for unavailable
washers to close up the slack in the
springs in the arm, A looker-on’s sug-
gestion to use shillings was tabooed, yet
when the mechanic removed the spring
out popped, among the packing, a Gyppo
half-piastre piece! 11l quite good con-
dition, too, though it must have been in
position for many years.
* * *
“Yank”: It is comforting to realise
that you in whom Colonel Mc-
Cormick angrily describes as “a nation
of criminals’ descendants” (B. 25/12/’46),
can make him so acutely unhappy. The
colonel, as owner-editor of the Chicago
“Tribune,” is still fighting the American
War of Independence, and hates “every
place the sun never sets in.” He would
have been peeved indeed by “Punch’s”
recent declaration:
Some doubt exists as to whether the
U.S.A. or the U.S.S.R. won World War 11.
The British Commonwealth, of course,
merely prevented both of them from losing
it.
McCormick enjoys a large circulation for
his ravings against things British, but,
outside Chicago, few Americans take him
seriously. They have come to regard
him as a chronic case of dyspepsia who
sees the world through one eye, and that
mostly shut. N
* * * *
“D.A.”: Tn the seasonal spell of sunny,
humid weather in Sydney just now the
beaches are “the shot” socially. Along
the coastline from North Head to Barren-
“I can't remember the name of the hotel We stayed at. Wait a moment —
I'll go and look through my towels."
joey light the' sands are covered with
surf- and sun-bathers, and 15 guineas a
week is the usual thing for an ordinary
furnished cottage (no sewerage) at New-
port Beach. Many families living on the
higher inland areas of Killara, Pymble,
Wahroonga, etc., have their own seaside
cottages at Newport, Avalon or Palm
Beach and numbers of young ex-service-
men have this season been getting back
into the pre-war holiday spirit. Nearly
every beach household has had a dozen
parties since Christmas; sometimes the
younger folk have the houses to them-
selves, and often a “five” or a “nine” is
turned on through the good offices of
someone with influence at a pub. Lately
one young fellow announced that he could
get an “eighteen,” but, having no house
at the beach where his friends might
foregather to tap .it, he asked a pal to
help him out. The pal declined. Aston-
ished friends—mostly ex-service—de-
manded to know why. Various reasons
tendered were regarded as unsatisfactory,
not to say unfriendly. Finally the house-
holder burst out; “Look, you can’t pos-
sibly turn on eighteen gallons in mixed
company in our house. Why, the —er —
container left up the yard by the sanitary
people only holds six gallons!” I under-
stand that in the army such relationships
and calculations come under the general
heading of “logistics.”
* * * *
“Melbn”: One lighter interlude en-
livened the gloom of the gas hold-up in
Melbourne. Addressing a hallful of
feminine demonstrators a lady concluded
an eloquent and touching appeal to the
Government to come to the assistance of
the harassed housewife: “We must say
to Mr. Cain—Gas, gas, we want gas aril
We’ve got to have it.” “What use would
it be to you,” shouted a male voice from
the back of the hall. “You don’t know
how to cook, anyhow.” - “Oh, don’t I?
I have an electric stove,” retorted the
speaker.
# * * •
“Hamfat”: One of the interests of old-
time Thespians was picking up make-ups ;
any quaint character seen was liable to
be imitated. A heavy of a travelling
show in my youth made a habit of using
these imitations of his selected characters
on the stage, but once he carried his
hobby too far. He had been almost de-
lirious with joy about a curious-looking
cit. seen on our arrival at a country town:
side-levers, hard mouth, inquisitive
nose and censorious eyebrows —in short,
the “dead spit” of the character of
Jeremiah Dimjoy, the sadistic, pious
hypocrite and killjoy the heavy was play-
ing that night. His imitation was splendid
—too splendid. The audience appreciated
it; you could hear the whispers in the
house about Dimjoy being old So-and-so
to a tee. But the next day brought a
writ, and a solicitor advised Dimjoy to
settle, which he did for a few pounds,
The lawyer said he had been able
to beat down the claim because of the
known bad character of the claimant. See-
ing the type of character our heavy had
reckoned his facial characteristics indi-
cated, the incident showed at least that
appearances are sometimes deceptive.
* * * * .
“Curate’s Egg”; I doubt if the Holly-
wooden belles who appeared in the pin-
up galleries of some servicemen would
have recalled posing for some of the
portraits on show. In comparison with
the pictured ladies Eve’s solitary figleaf
was an example of overdressing. Many
of these pin-ups were composite pictures
turned out by photographic craftsmen.
After beheadirfg a full-length pictured
nude the features of a well-known
feminine star were grafted on the
spinal column. Result often left nothing
to the imagination, and would have
proved embarrassing for the veriest tig-
ress among publicity-seekers. The device
Was not a new one. In pre-war U.S.A.
pictures similarly doctored were a
medium of blackmail by which innocent
wives and fiancees were mulcted of large
sums before F.6.L put an end to the
racket.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Judging from
a recent “Courier-Mail” (Brisbane)
advertisement, romance seems to be get-
ting a trifle drought-stricken in some of
our Great Open Spaces. It ran;
“Wanted, a wife, Protestant, brunette,
height sft. 6in., medium weight, age 21
to 26 years, good education, can cook,
plough, and drive a tractor when neces-
sary. Please enclose photo.” Inquiry
by a startled sub. elicited the facts that
the romantic swain was a late-20’s tank-
sinker in the west, 12 months back from
Army service, and getting a bit bored
with the work. He explained that he wasn’t
breaking his neck to get married —in
fact he was darned if he knew whether
he actually did want to get married. What
he really wanted was a working partner,
but she had to measure up to require-
ments and be ready to pitch in. But don’t
let that deter you, girls—it’s probably
only camouflage for an inferiority-com-
plex.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The Victorian State
Electricity Commission has received a bit
of conscience money which, if it were
emulated by all parties, would wipe out
the national debt within 12 months. It
was a fiver enclosed with a letter stating:
“Please accept the enclosed amount for
street-lamps I have broken in my youth.”
I can’t remember breaking any street-
lamps, but I travelled to school for years
first-class on a second-class season ticket
without detection. I was horribly
ashamed of my behavior, but a psycholo-
gist would feel quite indulgent towards
it. I was going to a school which was
more expensive than my parents could
afford, and as a minor economy they
gave me a second-class ticket. All my
friends.travelled first-class, and I couldn’t
bring myself to admit that my parents
weren’t as well-off as theirs. In fact, they
were just as much snobs as I was.
* * * *
“Telum”: I’ve never struck the replies
referred to by “T. 2” (B. l/l/’47) to the
question “How would you like it?” but
I recall one unexpected answer. A
young woman who had become a
mother came in to cash her maternity
cheque. While she was endorsing it I
asked “How’d you like it?” to which
she replied, without looking up, “Oh, it
wasn’t too bad,” I’ve been wondering
ever since what she meant and what she
thought I meant.
JR * ♦ 9R
“Plop”; My four-year-old nephew has
curly hair and a pleasant but contagious
lisp. He’s a macabre little blighter and
takes great delight in maltreating the cat.
Finding him thus engaged I pointed
sternly to his room, saying “Go West,
young man!” I chortled at the time,
but later checked up on the origi-
nator of the phrase, Horace Greeley. To
my sorrow he had accidentally beaten me
to the pun by several decades. Greeley
was attending a party where, pestered by
a sozzled youth who sought the formula
for the other’s success, he begged him
to “go rest, young man.” The youth,
unaware of Greeley’s lisp, caught the first
train to Oregon, where he did very well
in the tallow business.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Campbell’s mystery ships (B.
15/1/,’47)? In 1917 on leave in England,
I made a trip from St. Ives round Land’s
End to Penzance on a small fishing-boat
which Was to' be fitted with a gun. Off
the Longships Light, we came up with
a nondescript sailing vessel idling along,
with a still more nondescript crew leaning
over the sides, smoking. Their dress
ranged from jerseys and battered boxers
to more usual rig, and the whole outfit
looked a sitting shot for a Hun submarine
—which was precisely what it was in-
tended to be. The shabby-looking crew
were picked naval ratings and formidable
guns were well concealed. She was a
Campbell mystery ship: and heaven help
any sub. which surfaced to attack her.
This was the time when sinkings were
assuming alarming figures, and the en-
trance to the Channel itself bore ample
evidence of the Huns’ work.
MODERN ART.
** ‘The people who really like what is called modern
art,’ said William Dargle, the Archibald Pri •
winner, replying to his critics, ‘resemble those who
have lost their taste tor healthy food and have to
be titivated with sauces.’ ”
Their palates are so sadly vitiated,
Their fancies so fastidiously nice,
That all they relish must be saturated
With either pungent sauce or piquant spice.
Their taste inclines to weird delineations
That make less gifted persons stare and start
As quite outside all old-time acceptations
Of what was meant by art.
Not with faint praise but rather pitying stric-
tures
And supercilious contempt they strike
At those poor souls who seek by painting
pictures
To show what somebody or something s like.
They think it insufficiently recondite
To feature merely what the eye can see;
They look for some perception far beyond it —
Whatever that may be.
Some talent more emotional and nervy
They deem a painter needs to win renown,
Like limning a cathedral topsy-turvy
Or (say) a pyramid turned upside-down.
To shatter immemorial convention
And baffle ordinary comprehension,
These highbrows hold, are aims for all to
nurse.
And —parenthetically I may mention—
It’s much the same with verse.
N.S.W.
Midford.


More and more Australian
motorists prefer the
■s
and there’s six years backlag
h
to be overtaken—that’s why
there’s a big Job ahead of
rapic
but Y ° U . . D \c op er at ' V _ n ts
sU r©
tb»t
ever? po* 5 ’
n ' ee s ooO 95 9
\b' e
4 4
ru
K/
y
O Keep on buying Savings Certificates and Stamps.
A Product of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE 6 RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE I|LIBBER INSULATED
CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
wm
mm
mmmm
wm.
4 '.«
as
mmm
*
mm
mm
mm
vtwßwfmm
11 ; |B* ■ * »- ~ ■
Flies and mosquitos spread the germs of dreaded
summer diseases and epidemics. Doctors and
public health authorities continually stress the
importance of protecting food against flies. The
only safe and adequate protection is flywire on
your doors, windows and fireplaces. Keep flies,
mosquitos and other insects OUTSIDE, and food
is safe at all times.
Flywire is still in short supply but
large quantities are being made
so keep asking!
Keep insects §siT with
Cyclone
FLYWIRE
CYCLONE CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
»W4/16 Melbourne - Sydney • Adelaide - Perth
THE SERVICE MAN
The Cousens Case Again.
“Ek Dum”: The fate of Major
Cousens continues to provide evidence
of how unlucky it is to fall foul of the
Communist party when the victim .is
Within reach of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment.
After his internment by the Japanese
Major Cousens was alleged to be “col-
laborating” as a broadcaster over Tokyo
Radio stations. Communist party organs,
then under a ban (nominal), demanded
that he should be tried for treason, add-
ing that he had always been a Red-
baiter and therefore a traitor. News-
papers of the kind that pursues any ob-
jective which the Communist party feels
to matter kept the question alive. The
Army was waiting for Major Cousens on
the doorstep of his prison.
He was kept under open arrest for
months while the authorities gathered
Japanese evidence which they alone ob-
viously were able to gather. A Miss
Saisho, whose propaganda unit had in-
dulged in the vilest kind of propaganda
attacks on the virtue of Australian
soldiers’ wives—was brought to Australia
to give evidence against him, and in the
end to become a heroine whose opinions
were courted by, newspapers. The best
counsel money could buy were turned
“I just caught her trying to get aboard , sir."
on to cross-examine the returned officer,
and he was forced into a prolonged and
gruelling defence which he declares to
have cost him £6OOO. At the end of it
there was not enough evidence in the
police court to justify his indictment,
much less his conviction, and what there
was from Allied sources was strongly in
his favor.
Yet, on the very evidence on which it
was found impossible to try him, a
“Labor” Minister, on the recommenda-
tion of the Army Board, has decided to
deprive the major of his commission and
of many of the benefits, including his
active-service badge, which should have
accrued to him as an officer who gave
up a lucrative income to fight for his
country and who did fight—who was
actually one of the last officers engaged
in combat, which could have been
avoided, against the Japanese on Singa-
pore Island.
General Bennett, his G.0.C., has
borne published testimony to the fighting
record of this officer. The O.C. com-,
manding his brigade—Brigadier Taylor,
of the 22nd, A.I.F. —said he would
give full support to any movement to
have the cancellation of Major Cousfens’s
commission revoked:
I feel it is most unjust. I have discussed
the matter with other members of the
Eighth Divisibn. We are not going to let
the matter rest, and want a full explanation
why this action was taken. There were
15,000 other prisoners besides Cousens who
worked for the Japanese. We were forced
to work, and if Cousens is guilty then so
are we all.
The Army Board is right in exacting
the highest standards from its officers.
And if there is any evidence which jus-
tifies it in acting it should act against
all guilty parties. But that the Board or
the Ministry should single out one case
of alleged misbehavior in the battleline
or the prison camp is something to cause
alarm.
There are known cases in which men
turned tail in the face of the enemy,
letting their comrades down. There were
cases (it is no use baulking the fact) in
Malaya in which units or sub-units be-
haved so badly as to court stringent criti-
cism in American Intelligence reports
which were open to the world.
Yet not only was action not taken in
these cases, or in cases of alleged
collaboration reported from prison
camps, but specific instructions Awere
issued that no prisoner-of-war must be
questioned on his release as to the de-
tails of his surrender. This instruction
was born of political reasons and came
from political sources.
Many of the cases of collaboration
were reported from prison camps —prima
facie, if true, far worse than the Cousens
case.
But the curious fact remains. The
Cousens case was the only one which
interested the Communist Central Execu-
tive, which appears to be able to cut its
own coat as far as the Commonwealth
Government is concerned. Major
Cousens was the only one prosecuted.
When all else has failed he has been
punished by a secret military tribunal, on
evidence on which a public one found
itself even unable to try him. That tri-
bunal cannot be blamed if the matter
was officially referred to it and it dis-
covered evidence justifying its course of
action, but the puzzle is why official
forces have been used so persistently to
pursue one man alone.
Five Pounds Reward!
“Ek Dum”: A. M. Blain, Federal
member for the Northern Territory, has
communicated with the Prime Minister,
enclosing correspondence relating to the
dependants of Borneo natives who were
executed for helping Australian prisoners-
of-war.
Mr. Chifley obviously does not think
the matter urgent. Nor does he seem to
be moved by any sentiments of pity or
gratitude.
Mr, Blain wrote to the P.M. on
December 13 asking that a grant of at
least £5000 be made available, so that it
should not go on historical record that
compensation which the Commonwealth
was prepared to pay to dependants of
the executed men was limited to £5: —
I think I am justified in asking you to
send a special representative to Sandakan
from Australia to verify the conditions that
exist there, and also so that you might
have an officer of your own department
to give you a direct report before making
monies available to the unfortunate people
whose husbands and relatives were execu-
ted on oiJf behalf.
He enclosed a letter from Mrs. Alexander
Funk, widow of one of the brave fellows
who gave their lives for Australian
prisoners—her elder sister’s husband, E.
J. Lagan, also was murdered.
Both women are living on a few dol-
lars a month, having had everything in
the way of furniture and personal cloth-
ing taken from them by the Japanese. The
sister has four children.
The answer to Mr. Blain’s letter to
Mr. Chifley was dated December 30.
Signed “John J. Dedman, for Prime


IT" 5
m
J.
.■ . ■
ii
, .»
IN THE NAME OF
HUMANITY
We appeal to your generosity to contribute urgently-
needed funds for the relief of the terrible distress of
millions of hungry and homeless, sick and starving, naked
and freezing, friendless, hopeless and helpless people
in the liberated and occupied countries of Europe.
Huge sums are required for the purchase of food, medi-
cines, clothing, blankets, footwear, and many other
necessities of life, of which vast territories of Europe are
practically bare.
Please give us your help, and help quickly, to prevent
mass starvation and epidemics.
We shall do the rest and allocate the relief impartially
where the need is greatest.
THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
O QUAKERS)
INTERNATIONAL RELIEF COMMITTEE
in collaboration with the
OCCUPIED EUROPE RELIEF SOCIETY
Please forward your donations in Cash, Clean Clothing and Infants’ Wear to
THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
N.S.W.: 119 Devonshire St., Sydney. Vic.: 20 Russell St.,
Melbourne. S.A.: C/o Mr. George E. Hutchesson,. Box 779,
, G.P.0., Adelaide. W.A.: C/o Mr. J. H.' Crosland, Albany Rd.,
Gosnells. Q’LAND: C/o Mrs, H. F. Jones, Thozel Rd., Nth
Rockhampton, or Miss Kate Sauer, 8 Balaclava St., Woolloon-
gabba. TAS.; C/o JVlrs. Erskine, Burdoc, Rosetta. N.T.;
Box 4_B, Alice Springs.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY CORRESPONDENCE
The Technical Education Branch of the Department of Education
offers through the
SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE
the means of ensuring your future by providing you with sound and modern training in
a wide range of subjects by correspondence instruction.
PROMOTION AND SUCCESS .
depend Upon your ability to keep in touch with up-to-date methods and modern trends. No part
of the State is too remote to prevent you from receiving instruction. Young persons, other than
school pupils, and adults who live too far away from any New South Wales Technical College
to attend classes, are recommended to apply for enrolment in any one or more of the following
Correspondence Courses;
Instruction is available as folio tvs: —
ART. —Dressmakers’ Art, Figure Drawing, Free-
hand Drawing, Lettering, Short Display Card
Writing, Still Life Drawing, Ticket Writing.
COMMERCIAL. —Bookkeeping, Business Prin-
ciples, Accountancy, Auditing, Commercial Law,
Cost Accountancy, Company Secretarial Practice,
Income Tax Law, Banking, Finance & Foreign
Exchange, Bankers’ Institute, Commercial Corres-
pondence, Shorthand, Typewriting.
LOCAL, GOVERNMENT.— LocaI Government
(Town and Shire) Clerks’ Certificate.
ELECTRICAL. —Electrical Trades (Electricians’
Licence).
ENGINEERING. —Diesel Engine Operation,
Engineering Trades Calculations, Engineering
Trades Drawing, Motor Maintenance (for owners
and drivers of motor vehicles), Steam Engine
Driving, Boiler Attendants, Gas Engineering,
Refrigeration. •
HOME HANDICRAFTS.—D ressmaking,
Millinery.
PREPARATORY. —English and Mathematics
(approximately from Ist year to Leaving Certifi-
cate standard), French, History and Mechanics
(Approximately from Intermediate Certificate to
Leaving Certificate standard).
BUILDING. —Building Construction, Building
Trades Calculations, Carpentry and Joinery. '
PRlNTlNG. l —Composing, Printers’ English and
Arithmetic, Linotype Operation.
PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS.— Intermediate
Certificate (see Secondary), Leaving Certificate
and Matriculation (see Preparatory), Nurses’
Entrance, Police Entrance, Telephonists’ & Tele-
graph Messengers’ Entrance.
PUBLIC HEALTH.—HeaIth Inspection, Meat
Inspection.
RURAL. —Agriculture, Care of Animals, Pig
Raising, Poultry Farming, Sheep & Woolclassing,
Dairy Technology, Beekeeping, Farm Mechanics
(including Farm Arithmetic, Farm Machinery and
Farm Science), Station Bookkeeping.
SANITATION. House Drainage, Sanitary
Engineering, Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumbing.
SECONDARY. —Art, Business Principles and
Bookkeeping, English, French, General Mathe-
matics, Geography, History, Latin, Mathematics I
(Arithmetic and Algebra), Mathematics II
(Geometry and Trigonometry). (All from Ist
year to Intermediate Certificate standard.)
If you cannot attend a Technical College, study by Correspondence.
TEES.
25/- per year or 10/-'per term per single subject. Course rates where applicable. Half fees to
students under 21 years and receiving less than SO/- weekly.
A. DENNING, for Superintendent of Technical Education.
COUPON FOR SYLLABUS *"
To the Officer in Charge, Corftspondenee Teaching Division, Sydney Technical College,
45-4 V Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the
.Correspondence Course.
NAME (in Block Letters)
ADDRESS .
Are you an Ex-serviceman or -servicewoman? You may be eligible for Commonwealth
Reconstruction Training benefits.
Minister,” it says “the representations
njade in connection with the matter will
be given consideration.”
This, of course, is the formula under
which matters are buried for good.
It will be a lasting disgrace to the
country if nothing is done for these
people. There are only a few of them,
And every one of them should be treated
as the dependant of an Australian soldier
on active service, with benefits, including
pension rights, granted accordingly.
U.S. Forces.
“Ek Bum”: President Truman’s an-
nouncement of the details of the plan for
“unifying” the American forces makes a
lot of military critics look foolish. Many
of them have discussed the matter without
knowing its details. And many of them
have believed that Army, Navy and Air
Force were all to be merged, and have
used the impending event to forward the
idea that similar action is badly needed
in the British Empire.
The reality which has now crystallised
is that the Americans have at length
discarded their old-fashioned methods
(Britain discarded them 300 years ago)
and adopted British methods.
What has been decided upon is a plan
rather for the separation than the unifi-
cation of forces. As in the British system
the U.S. Navy, A.F. and Army now are
each under a separate Secretariat, though
co-ordinated by a Defence Secretary.
The one mystery, is how Uncle Sam
expects to manage, with so limited a
control as only four Secretaries, seeing that
his forces will settle down on a peace-
time basis to something, like 1,500,000
men minimum. Australia will have all of
70,000 men in the forces within the next
few months. To manage these forces it
needs five Ministers, capable together of
running an incubator.
Delayed-action History.
“Ek Dum”: On the authority of a Mr.
Werner Knop, described as “a naturalised
British citizen who was born in Ger-
many... .and was foreign editor of
several English newspapers during the
years preceding World War IT” the
Saturday Evening Post” has published
an amazing war story.
According to his own account, Mr.
Knop was head of a London propaganda
company. Union Time, Ltd., which had
been founded “in the summer of 1938,
the heyday of Britain’s appeasement
policy.” It was “sponsored, financed and
directed by a group of British business-
men and newspaper editors in an effort
to save European peace by bringing home
to the British public the vital necessity
of a strorjg foreign policy towards Nazi
Germany.” And in Germany it “had
built up a vast, hidden, information-
gathering system which was providing the
press and Parliament with many secrets
of Germany’s war preparations,”
At the same time it was waging “a
ceaseless propaganda inside Germany,
first by financing and co-ordinating the
activities of the German underground
opposition and then by such methods as
radio broadcasts... .and the printing and
distribution of forged editions of Nazi
newspapers containing exposures of
Hitler’s war preparations.” If that is the
case it was doing things for which
British editors, home- as welPas foreign-
born, were attacking Hitler.
Mr. Knop relates that in May, 1939 —
war being still several months off—“a
member of Parliament, Mr, G. R.
Strauss, one of Union Time’s financial
sponsors and now Parliamentary Secre-
tary to the Minister for Transport,”
called him on the telephone and placed
him in touch with a lady who told him
that her small group of German socialists
believed that' “only through Hitler’s re-
moval could war be averted... .They had
decided to act at the first ’favorable op-
portunity. ... .They had little money.”
Mr. Knop goes on to assert that though
he and Mr. Strauss (he is Wbor member
for a Lambeth constituency and was
educated at Rugby) did not believe in
assassination, “We had no doubt
about the moral rightness of having
Hitler removed We decided to give
Hilda Monte the financial support she
had come to ask... . On her return she
brought us the plan which was to be
carried through as a preliminary to show
the bona fides of her group” This was
to carry out a major explosion on the
17,000-ton liner Berlin, wherever the ship
might be on July 18, 1939. If this plot
were carried out Messrs. Knop and
Strauss (the story proceeds) were to pro-
vide the money for the attempt on
Hitler’s life.
Thus, according to the yarn, a group
of British businessmen and editors,
along with a member of Parliament, be-
came accessories before a potential
murder—probably, inter alia, of innocent
crew members, for which they were liable
to capital punishment under the laws of
Britain. And they were actually promis-
ing to subsidise the murderers for their
dirty work to enable them, an illegal or-
ganisation under the laws of any civilised
land, to murder also the head of a then
officially friendly Power, The ship was
crippled by a boiler explosion—it was
allegedly carrying troops, and was en-
titled at that time to carry troops, and
Mr. Knop says that he had no qualms in
handing over the money to arrange the
plot to blow Hitler (and, of course, every-
body else within a wide range) to pieces
during the normal annual meeting at the
Brown House in Munich in November. ,
Three plots were scrapped—all, it is
alleged, made with the knowledge of the
British group.
Communists knew about what was hap-
pening and the British conspirators’ part.
A Communist representative called on
Mr. Knop and asked him “if there was
anything in a report he had received
from his H.Q. that we were after Hitler’s
scalp,” adding: “If we thought you
people were really plugging for this we
would have no hesitation in informing
on you.”
There can be little doubt, in view of
the friendly relations between Hitler and
Stalin, that Hitler knew of what was
afoot before he declared war.
When, after war was in being, the plot
was sprung on November 9, 1939,
Hitler’s Brown House was blown to
smithereens as a result of the peace-time
plot which, had it succeeded when it was
first intended to succeed, would have
given Germany an excuse for war, placed
Britain in the position in which it was
placed when Foreign Office men became
privy to an attempt on Napoleon’s life
and, very probably, deprived it of
American aid.
Such is the Knop narrative, and Mr.
Strauss cannot let it go uncontradicted
on his part. Perhaps he will react as
vigorously as did Mr. Churchill when
venomously libelled by the Communist
Slav novelist Adamic in his book Dinner
at the White House. That poisonous
creature and his publishers had to with-
draw and apologise in abject terms and
pay damages, and costs.
Macquarie Grove Reopens.
“Ek Dum”: At a time when training
for civil flying seemed to be in the
doldrums, it is good to see the old train-
ing schools opening up again. ,To en-
courage youths to learn to fly under
proper auspices and at a minimum of
cost is a matter that should interest the
Government to the extent of offering sub-
sidies, but there is no evidence that the
Government is interested in the slightest
degree.
Appearances are that, for many years,
all training will be given by men with
actual,, fighting experience.' And apart
from the growing needs of civil aviation,
which will expand tenfold in the next
five years, every trained flier, even if be
has passed only the elementary certifi-
cates, is an asset to defence and a saving
to the country.
These remarks are generated by the
fact that Macquarie Grove School at
Camden (N.S.W.) has reopened under'
control of Lieut.-Colonel Edward Mac-
arthur Onslow, who commanded the 2/2
Machinegun Battalion in the Second
A.1.F., picked up a D.S.O. at Alamein, a
mention in dispatches at Finschhafen and
an E.D. for his final services.
* Edgar Percival was the real father of
Macquarie Grove. He made some scenes
for a film of the Onslow private race-
course at the Grove in "1924, persuading
Edward apd Denzil Onslow to build a
machine for the “Sun” Cup in 1924 ; it
was designed for the brothers by Broad-
smith (a good man driven out of the
country, like Percival, by red tapo, and
neglect) and Percival.
The Onslow lads later got their
licences with the R.A.C. In 1937 Edward
turned the racecourse into a school with
what training craft he could get. He had
produced 42 pilots before December,
1939.
The R.A.A.F. took over the aero-
drome in 1940, but last September, with
its head out of the forces, reorganisation
began. The whole place has been reno-
vated. Aircraft have been overhauled,
shops re-equipped, and the O.C. comes
back with his previous qualifications re-
inforced with C and D ground engineer’s
licences and with two very capable chief
instructors ip Squadron-Leaders G. Cole-
man, D.F.C., and G. Hoskins, D.F.C.
Both were chief instructors at the
Central Flying School, R.A.A.F. The
aerial equipment consists of a number of
Tiger Moths, two Ansons and a Genarco.
The place should grow and become an
asset to defence, since it W climatically
ideal —on the Hume Highway, only 38
miles from Sydney, but far away enough
from both mountains and coast to miss
low cloud. And training is uninterrupted,
since there is no external traffic on the
aerodrome.


WHEN IT’S AN
\
V
V
N
\\ / /
/
,
ĥ
MORE CARS ARE FITTED WITH EXIDE
THAN ANY OTHER BATTERY
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.. LTD.. 44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY
X 1.24.47
PEWONAL ITEMS
In Washington to present silver cigar-
ette-cases from British and Australian
p.-0.-w. to Americans who helped them
through their durance vile is Colonel W.
S. Kent Hughes, the Victorian M.L.A.,
who solaced himself during his confine-
ment by writing a gigantic epic, more
descriptive than any war correspondent’s
dispatches. W. S. Kent Hughes is a
Rhodes Scholar, B.A. of Oxford, and
winner of the M.C. in the 1914-18 war.
In his youth he was a first-rate athlete and
oarsman, but he once horrified the head-
masters of the public schools by issuing a
solemn warning about the consequences
of athleticism on the too-young. Later,
as M.L.A. for Kew, he caused an equal
amount of horror to his fellow-members
by declaring himself to be a “Fascist with-
out a shirt.” He had an unconventional
father, one of Melbourne’s outstanding
surgeons. Kent Hughes starved and was
beaten in Singapore, Formosa, Japan and
Mukden while he wrote his poem. With
the help of the American colonels Hoff-
man and Wood, Brigadier Sage and elec-
trician’s mate Emet Kilmer, he brought
out an underground daily newspaper
which kept prisoners in touch with the
outside world.
Round about 130 years ago the Prince
Regent, later George IV, paid a surprise
visit to a ship-of-the-line at Portsmouth.
The commander tried to hustle out of the
way an ironmonger who had been
brought on board to demoifstrate a patent
lock he had invented, but the Prince
Regent, always interested in gadgets, in-
sisted on a demonstration. The iron-
monger was the original Chubb, and
SAFES.
before he had properly recovered
from the shock he found himself
installed in premises at St. Paul’s
churchyard, London/ where he and
his descendants continued to turn
out locks bearing the Chubb name and
the fish insignia until Goring’s love-
children forced a removal to a new
address. Harry Emtfry Chubb, present
head of the firm, is out on a visit to its
Australian and Maoriland offshoots. He
joined the concern in 1897, and a few
months ago he gave a celebration dinner
to all surviving employees who were
there when he started. There were 47 of
them, including one old ehap who had
been on the payroll 68 years. The
veteran’s father had also made Chubb
locks for over 60 years, and once in an
expansive moment told the boss “Y*
know, you' re all right, cock, but I never
did like that old granfer of yourn. When
I was an apprentice he had me up afore
the magistrate for taking a half-day oft
to see the Dook of Wellington’s funeral.”
Dr. Sylvester M. Lambert, dead in
New York at 67, established a fine record
of work against tropical diseases in the
Austral-Pacific tropics, for much of which
Australia has cause to be grateful.
Loaned in 1919 by the Rockefeller Foun-
dation to the Commonwealth Health
Service, he did essential and valuable
groundwork in Queensland and Papua
for the hookworm campaign which fol-
lowed under the same auspices. Later,
he acted as sanitary adviser to several
South Pacific Administrations, and carried
out extensive research on nutrition and
disease-distribution among native popu-
lations. His findings and representations
induced the Rockefeller Foundation to
endow and equip a Native School of
Tropical Medicine at Suva, providing a
four-year course of study for selected
native students from all parts of the
South Pacific. On qualification they re-
turn to their respective districts as medi-
cal practitioners and officers of health.
Six students from Papua and New Guinea
are now on their way to the school, and
others will follow in later years.
Sir Harry Twyford, Lord Mayor of
London in 1937-38, who passed through
Fremantle on his way to M.L., has con-
nections with Australia. He was a cable
man in the Eastern Extension when that
co. brought the shore end of its first all-
British cable into Adelaide and he married
a daughter of Richard Honey, of
Woodville (S.A.); she was to become the
first Australian Lady Mayoress of Lon-
don. Twyford was superintendent of the
training station at Cable Bay, in M.L.,
from which the company manned its Far-
Eastern stations. He gave up telegraphy
to become the head of George Brettle
and Co., one of the old textile concerns,
and from that it was a short step to the
Lord Mayoralty. He is travelling the
world investigating trade possibilities.
“Becks” on a soldier turned states-
man:—
When World War II broke out George
Catlett Marshall, now U.S. Secretary of State,
was a brigadier-general. Roosevelt jumped him
over the heads of 34 senior officers to become
Chief of Staff, with the job of building the
small American peace-time Army into the huge
complex organisation necessary for a global
war. Few of the men passed over begrudged
Marshall his promotion, and subsequent history
showed the choice to be one of F.D.R.’s best
picks. Till then Marshall’s career had for
the most part been one of hard work and
slow progress, but two spectacular performances
highlighted it. Just before the First World
War, while a lieutenant serving in the Philip-
pines, he produced an impromptu plan for
the defence of Manila which moved his com-
mander to prophesy that in him America had
her “greatest military genius since Stonewall
Jackson.” Five years later, in France, after
serving as captain with a Moroccan division
and winning the Croix de Guerre and Legion
of Honor, Pershing made him chief of
operations for the First American Army, and
he was responsible for successfully carrying out
a surprise transfer of over half a million men
from St. Mihiel to the Argonne—a job of
logistics which must have been grand practice
for his bigger task in Hitler’s war. By 1943
America’s army had grown from 175,000 to
close on 8,000,000, with forces strung all over
the globe and the invasion of Europe just
around the corner. Churchill is believed
to have favored Marshall as invasion chief,
but Roosevelt thought he could do better work
with the Combined Chiefs of Staff in Washing-
ton, so Eisenhower was chosen in his stead.
One of the deciding factors was the complete
confidence all shades of opinion in Congress
held in Marshall; before Pearl Harbor, when
there was still a strong isolationist party in
Washington, his tact and diplomacy , had been
just as valuable as his military experience in
securing the expansion of the Army. After
Japan collapsed these same qualities led to his
appoinftnent *to Chungking and, naturally, to
his latest job. The American Secretary of
State is, in the absence of a Vice-President,
next in line for the White House should any-
thing happen to the President. Announcement
of Marshall’s selection as Secretary was the
signal for rumors’ that he would be next year’s
Democratic candidate; the general lost no time
in giving an emphatic denial. No stranger
to international conferences, he takes over
from the ageing Byrnes the job of writing
America’s part of the peace treaties —a fitting
climax to his career of usefulness to his country.
To , George Sampson, retiring at 85
from the position of organist at St. John’s
Cathedral, Brisbane, after nearly 50 years,
orchestral music in Queensland owes
more than to any other man. As con-
ductor of the Brisbane Musical Union in
1898 he began the notable symphonic
training of local talent which developed
into the Sampson Orchestra by 1903.
Four years later he made of it the first
State and Municipal Orchestra, His in-
valuable services in the cause of music
will not end with his retirement from St.
John’s. He will continue as Musical
Adviser to the Brisbane City Council, the
Department of Public Instruction, and
the Queensland University and also as
City Organist. A successful composer, he
ik the author of several standard musical
textbooks.
Vernon Bartlett, on his way from
Britain on a visit to Australia and Maori-
land, has been an Independent member
of the Commons since 1938. Before
entering politics he was well known as
a journalist and broadcaster. His first
paper was the “Daily Mail,” which he
joined in 1916 after putting in a couple
of years with the B.E.F. Bartlett a
string of books to - his credit ranging
from World War I sketches to foreign
affairs and novels.
Judge Abbott, of S.A., saw a son
admitted to the lately; he had been
articled to his father’s old friend Hannan,
K.C. The law sticks to the law. Others
admitted on the same day were Norman,
son of the lawyer of that name, and
S; J. Jacobs, grandson and namesake of a
famous sportsman and sporting lawyer
of the past.
“Craiser”; War-time taxation probably
accounts for the fact that H. G. Wells
left estate valued at only £59,811; his
works must have netted millions. Still,
the author of The Outline of History
was a hearty liver and a pretty good
spender. He once had a villa on the
Riviera. Visitors to the villa, however
eminent in the realms of art, literature,
affairs or science, never met the writer
in the daytime. When they arrived they
were met by Wells’s butler, who intro-
duced them, not to Wells, but to the
decanters of wine and whisky on the
sideboard. When the dinner-bell rang
Wells would appear from his study and
take his place at the head of the table.
Being by that time well oiled the conver-
sation of his guests was likely to be so in-
spired as to surprise even themselves.
Thus H.G. avoided boredom.
Melbourne has a phenomenon equiva-
lent in some ways to G. B. Shaw in
Frederick William Heath, who recently
celebrated his 93rd birthday. Proprietor of
Gaunts, the oldest firm of watchmakers in
the city, and chairman of directors of
Robertson and Mullens, he still walks to
his office daily.
Dr. J. O. Poynton, appointed lecturer
in pathology at Adelaide University, was
a p.-0.-w, at the Changi camp for three
and a half years. A Cambridge man,
and former resident medical superinten-
dent at Charing Cross Hospital, London,
he went to Asia in 1933, and became
pathologist at the Institute for Medical
Research at Kuala Lumpur. He was
stationed at the Singapore General Hos-
pital when captured by the Japs.
By grace of the Melbourne “Herald”
the University of Melbourne now has
Australia’s first Professor of Fine Arts.
Joseph Terence Anthony Burke was born
in London in 1913, and educated at the
Courtauld Institute of Art at the Uni-
versity of London and also at Yale,
U.S.A. His mother painted, and from a
boy he sketched anything and everything
on anything he could find, but nowadays
he is not so much the practitioner of art
as the scholar. He was on the staff of the
FINE ARTS.
Victoria and Albert Museum at the out-
break of war, and was seconded to the
Home Secretary’s office, where he was in
turn private secretary to Lords Presidents
of the Council Sir John Anderson, Mr.
Attlee and Lord Woolton. He then be-
came the present P.M.’s private secretary
and attended the Frisco and Potsdam
conferences with him. His specialty is
eighteenth-century English painters, par-
ticularly Hogarth. Burke took his B.A:,
London, with “Analysis of Beauty” as
his thesis, and his Yale M.A. with a thesis
on that almost forgotten painter Ben-
jamin West, P.R.A. He isn’t quite sure
yet whether the last word in his official
title is in the singular or plural, but
understands that the new chair has been
founded to foster and promote the
appreciation and understanding of the
fine arts in general. He looks younger
than his 34 years, and in spite of his name
disclaims any Celtic descent. His family
has been settled in London for over a
century.
R. F. Fagan, sketched here by Mor-
rissey, is one of the three new Tasmanian
Cabineteers: Attorney-General. A brother
of Dr. K. J. Fagan, of Prince Henry Hos-
pital, Sydney, who was captured with the
Eighth Division in Singapore, and did
great work among the men on the Burma
POLITICS.
railway, R.F. is a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Tasmania in Law and Arts, and has
practised since 1934. For three years he
has been joint lecturer in law at the Uni.
Earlier he lectured to W.E.A. students
in political science, but when he won one
of the Wilmot seats a few weeks ago it
was his first attempt at practical politics.
It should be in the blood, though; an
uncle, Mark Fagan, is Speaker of Maori-
land’s Legislative Council.
By the death at 70 of Dr. Bernard
Traugott Zwar, C.M.G., Melbourne lost
one of its one-time most eminent sur-
geons and the greatest organiser in its
medical annals ; and it is not too late to
set the fact on record. It was Zwar’s
push and zeal which produced the
new Royal Melbourne Hospital, and
he was president of its predecessor during
its stormiest period. He had half a cen-
tury’s association with it. A man of wide
culture and an excellent draughtsman, his
extraordinary memory covered every
facet of hospital and medical history. He
was one of the founders of the Royal
Australasian College of Surgeons, and
served in the First World War as a major.
Adelaide was his birthplace, and Prince
Alfred College his Alma Mater.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 72, Tom* Kean, who was
rejected for the Ist A.1.F., but got to France
somehow as ammunition motor-driver. Vic-
torian-born, fte joined Vacuum Oil and ulti-
mately became founder and managing director
of his own oil company. He was president
of the C.T.A. and a great worker for Legacy.
At 54, in S.A., J. V. Hopwood, formerly
one of the State’s best jockeys. He won the
Hills Railway Slakes at Oakbank seven times,
six of them in successive years.
In Sydney, at 75, John Ness, M.L.A. in
N.S.W. Parliament from 1922 to 1937 and
Mayor of Marrickville during the First World
War.
In Melbourne, Herbert Napier Leonard, mem-
ber of an old Victorian racing family. His
father, like himself, was a member of the
V.R.C.,and his brother was a chairman. Herbert
won the Grand National with Cockcrow and
the Oaks with Triode. He had pastoral in-
terests in Queensland.
In 64, William Chatham,
Major in the First A.1.F., and remembered
by many an Old Digger as commander of
Chatham’s Post on Gallipoli.
At Wellipgton (M.L.), Charles Erwin Philpot-
Crowther. Born in England in 1865, he went
to N.Z. in 1926 and was widely known for
his work for the N.Z. Philatelic Society, of
which he was patron. As the “Stamp Man”
he had a big radio following.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN JOSEPH COLE late of Gunnedah.—TAKE
NOTICE that ETHEL MAY COLE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4466 of 1946 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you want to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 17th day of February 1947
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from either MR. W. A. BAXTER, of Central
Chambers, Conadilly Street, Gunnedah, the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, or at the offices of his Svdnev
Agents, MESSRS. A. J. McLACHLAN, HOARE &
CO., Solicitors, 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.— (t.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Sydney
Last Monday the Harbor was gay with
craft; the Anniversary -regatta was in full
cry, the flagship, for the first time in
50 years, a sailing ship—the Pamir. This
waterfront celebration is the finest com-
memoration of the arrival of the Fleet,
and is probably the most pleasing to the
heart of that able seafarer Captain
Phillip. Out at Randwick, too, the horses
were in fine form. It was the second day
of the A.J.C. Anniversary meeting, and
put a nice finish to Saturday’s display.
Thin, cool frocks, linen suits and large
hats were worn by the best-dressed
women. The meeting was a mid-summer
one, and the frocking was of the same
season. Two smart-looking sisters were
Mrs. Cedric O’Gorman Hughes and Mrs.
Gordon Wharton. Mrs. Denis Allen’s
dark-blue sheers were coin-spotted. Mrs.
John Lindsay, who leaves for America
soon with her husband, wore a light-
weight suit and a small but brimful hat.
For the opening of the Brahms Festi-
val Sydney weather proved amiable —no
rude gusts tore out by the roots the hair
of the hundreds of women outdoor
listeners —no peals of thunder, no daggers
of lightning in sudden tempest threatened
man, woman and child seated on the
grassy slopes near the Conservatorium.
The idea of amplifying the music through
loudspeakers outside the concert hall was
good. It must have been pleasant,
too, glancing at the tree looming large
and black against the night in front of
the Con. and in front of that again the
stone horseman setting out on his ride
over the city. The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, conducted by Percy Code, gave
the first programme of the festival.
Robert Pikler was the soloist in the violin
concerto in D major. This is music of
enchantment. Other concerts in this
series will be given at the Conservatorium
on January 30, and the first, fourth and
eighth of February. On February 13
the firjal concert will resound through the
Town Hall.
Not everyone who had had a pioneer
in the family went to the Governor Phillip
party which was held last Thursday.
Some of the regulars at the Women
♦Pioneers’ own clubrooms didn’t make the
trek around to Macquarie House in the
B.M.A. street. Nor was Sam, famed
factotum of the W.P. club, to be glimpsed
at the portcullis of the one-time Govern-
ment House. A slight attack of summer
cold (or such illness) kept him away.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite ex-
claimed over the size of the rooms —not
Government House scale at all —forget-
ting that in Macquarie’s time the whole
population of Sydney was not one of
teeming milliorfs, and that the bon-ton
would be a very handpicked nosegay in-
deed.
The affair was a sort of wedding-party
of Men and Women Pioneers clubs.
Paris House is not yet in its gala dress
for the men. Macquarie House, with the
statue of Phillip within gazfe, was an ideal
setting. The arrangements were satin
smooth, and the undieted had a field-
day among the cakes and the savories.
Guests were received in the well-propor-
tioned reception rooms on the ground-
floor by knight Alfred Davidson
(the Men Pioneers’ president), his lady and
president of the Women Pioneers, Mrs.
Lingham. Here the toasts of “The King”
and “The Day We Celebrate” were given
in stirring style by Alfred Davidson,
The Historical Society’s rooms must
have been empty —all its stalwarts are,
of course, pioneers. Mrs. T. H. Butler,
granddaughter of Mrs. Lingham, and a
sixth-generation Australian, was graceful
in all-white. Mrs. Alix Taylor, chairman
of the Younger Pioneers, was springlike
in daffodil-yellow linens. Much-greeted
was F. W. Walton, who has been hon.
secretary of the Men’s Society for over
30 years.
Pianist Gualtiero Volterra, Mrs. Vol-
terra and daughter Tatia set off one
evening early last .week on their
voyage to America. Mrs. Volterra’s
mother, Mrs. Bertie Kelly, gave a
farewell lunch at Prince’s for her,
and among the guests was sister
Mrs. John McPhillamy, of Moss Vale.
Small Volterra daughter Tatia has been
a keen student of ballet dancing during
the family’s stay here.
Something like a cicada chorus in a
minor key echoed through the Trocadero
last Wednesday afternoon. The warm
summer day had brought women in their
hundreds and a smattering of males to
the farewell to Cyril Ritchard and Madge
Elliott. All the guests were pleased and
excited at the chance to get another close-
up of the two stage favorites, and he and
she seemed pleased that this party
to them save P oint t 0 an a PP eal for P r :
Barnardo’s Homes and the Travellers’ Aid
g oc j e^y
k Two ’ o s> pink roses bloomed on
Madge’s large black hat, and her slim
black frock suited her fair good
xhey both sang and danced and were
a grea t hit in songs old and new. A harp
soothly played supplied accompani-
ments to Marie Bremner’s sweet tones
that sang songs of the Hebrides—prob-
ably a cooler spot than this city in the
afternoon sun. Evelyn Gardiner, in a
sweeping turquoise frock, also sang. All
received bushels of applause. Knight
Henry Braddon and members of the corn-
mittee received the guests. A small girl
presented Madge with a bouquet. Cyril
auctioned a programme autographed by
himself and Madge and the members of
his company. It was knocked down to
Miss Warby for 11 guineas.
wa§ startling to ’learn at the annual
ral meeti of St Luke ’ s that t he
| ne Darlinghurst hospital had been
run during the past year at a loss of
£6594. However, in spite of this loss,
there is no intention of closing down,
At present St. Luke’s is an entirely private
hospital. To continue to run it in this
way would result in high hospital fees
to the patient. The course most likely to
be adopted is one of the alternatives
brought forward by the acting-chairman
of the board, E. is. Watkins. It is to
give up the idea of an entirely private
hospital and to maintain public beds
together with the private ones,
s Lube’s has been giving excellent ser-
; t 0 the bljc £o e r m ° ny years . K
; , fIU Jd to capacity, but increased
' nd hcX hav £ t( / be coped with .
Bi | pjicher .was the guest of honor at
(he m P eeting . Mrs Hubert Fairfax gave
, hanks to hospital centr e S for their
k and M R ut hven, just back
from > Ame) . jca and England> also made
h
P V . ■ , _ . .
Elizabeth Durack (Mrs. F. Clancy) is a
fair-haired, blue-eyed daughter of Aus-
tralia. The paintings which she will ex-
hibit in David Jones’s art gallery from
t bj s p r j £ j ay a fternoon onwards prove that
ske ka & that inner understanding of her
na ti ve land that only closeness to its soil
can foster. great-grandfather
(Irish-born) settled in Australia over 100
years ago. Her grandfather, Patrick
Durack, was a noted pioneer in the pas-
toral development of this land. Elizabeth,
as aq illustrator, caught the public gaze
and imagination first with the drawings
that accompanied her sister Mary’s book
All About published by The Bulletin.
Since then they have collabctrated in a
happy series of works: Chunurna, Son of
Djaro probably the best known to
Bulletin readers. These books had for
background their father’s properties in
East Kimberley, Western Australia,
The paintings in the show to be opened
on Friday by Bernard Smith, of the
National Gallery, are all of Broome,
where divers have gone fathoms under
the greeny-blue waters in search of pearl
and shell since the day of the ancient
Egyptians (or so it is claimed). It’s an
awesome thought that the pearl which
Cleopatra so dramatically quaffed might
have come from Roebuck Bay. To those
interested in an Australia that streches
beyond the city ways, who are interested
in the problems and the survival of our
aborigine brothers and sisters, these paint-
ings and drawings will be a moral adorn-
ing a well-told tale. Dorothy Welding
made the photograph of Elizabeth
Durack.
Crowds of travellers with their faces
towards England are booked in the
Rangitiki, which leaves on February 7.
Among them is artist Ena Joyce, winner
of the N.S.W. Travelling Art Scholarship
for 1946. Busy to the last Ena gave her
first one-man show of paintings and
drawings before she left. The show was
opened by Rolans Wakelin, and continues
to draw a stream of gazers. The young
painter studied art for six years at East
Sydney Tech.
From Melbourne
There was great interest in the wedding
at St. John’s Church, Toorak, of Kathleen
Grant Hay, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. P. Grant Hay, of Toorak, and
Major Sir Rupert Clarke, son of the late
Sir Rupert Clarke and the Marchioness
of Headfort. Color scheme was cream
and gold, the altar was massed with all-
white flowers, and at the chancel steps
large bowls of mixed white shasta daisies,
white and gold gladioli and miniature
gold lilies, were set. The Rev. H. M.
Arrowsmith officiated. The bride chose
a lovely gown of white satin cut on flow-
ing lines, with the full skirt falling to a
slight train. Below the waistline, a deep
band of pearl embroidery was worked
into the folds of the skirt and continued
beneath the slight bustle at the back. The
bodice was close-fitting with a heart-
shaped neckline and long-fitting sleeves.
The billowing tulle veil was caught with
an old French coronet of orange
blossoms. She carried a bouquet of
magnolias, and also wore a string of
pearls, the gift of her parents, and the
bridegroom’s gift, a sapphire and
diamond bracelet. Mrs. Frederick Fair,
sister of the bride, Elizabeth Clarke, sister
of the bridegroom, and Lorraine Martin
(she has just announced her engagement
to Dick Daniel) wfere the bride’s attend-
ants. Picture hats of primrose lace were
worn with their frocks of primrose
taffeta, which were made with full skirts
and the new padded hipline, the fitted
bodices finished with cowl collars, ex-
tending over the shoulders to form brief
sleeves. They carried small shower
bouquets of white daisies. The bride-
groom had his cousin, Michael Clajke,
as best man, with Peter Grant Hay and
David Landale (another cousin) as
groomsmen.
At Egoline, Albany-road, Toorak, home
of Mr. and Mrs. Grant Hay, a large
marquee, lined with pale pink and with
the supports decorated with masses of
whitej yellow and blue flowers, was the
setting for the reception. Three hundred
guests met under the pink canopy, with
the bridal table at one end and close by,
a small table supporting the three-tiered
wedding cake, decorated with cascades
of gardenias. Mrs. Grant Hay received
the guests, wearing a burgundy chiffon
ensemble with a matching hat. A little
ruffle of French lace relieved the neckline
of the black romaine frock worn by
Mrs. Reggie Power, the bridegroom’s
half-sister. Black satin ribbon bows were
set in her black baku straw hat. Noticed
during the reception were Lady Knox, in
black and hip-length white coat and
white hat, Major Maxwell, A.D.C. to Sir
Winston Dugan, Acting - Governor-
General, and Mrs. Maxwell. Her short
rose crepe frock was worn with an off-
the-face Leghorn hat, trimmed with
ostrich plumes in the same rose tonings.
With R. G. Casey was his wife' and
General Blarney was accompanied by his
wife, smart in navy blue and white straw
hat, the edge banded in red and blue.
Simplicity of frocking was the keynote
of the younger guests. Mrs. Desmond
Deasey, a recent bride, covered her off-
white frock with a pastel-pink wool
coat and rose and white flowers trimmed
her small white boater. Margaret Viney,
who came from Tasmania for the wed-
ding, was attractive in a dove-grey frock
and her large natural straw hat, banded
in green velvet, matched her handbag.
Pamela Myer chose a pleated frock in
royal-blue tonings which was worn with
a cerise and blue bandeau. Mrs. Fred
Dennett chose a floral frock and half-hat
of matching flowers.
The siren song of the weather, brilliant
and warm, should have brought women
to the Moonee Valley races dressed in
their best, but they preferred cool, casual
clothes. There was a remarkable change
in footwear at this meeting. Many women
wore the “loafer” shoe ; toeless and back-
less with a medium wedge sole and, of
course, with this type of shoe, casual
clothes. Mrs. Frederic Fair chose this
type of shoe; hers were of black suede,
the wedge soles brass-studded, and her
short black skirt was topped with a
jumper-blouse of green and black
checked taffeta. Her white off-the-face
hat was crownless. There were floral
frocks aplenty, but outstanding was the
frock worn by Mrs. Ken Hooper. Large
clusters of cyclamen and mauve flowers,
outlined in green, were printed on white
crepe, and the skirt, short, was allied to
a blouse cut with a square neck and the
new cape sleeves. Her large Molyneux
model hat was of fine natural straw, the
brim trimmed with white gardenias and
green frosted leaves. Mrs. Geoffrey Wal-
lace Berger chose a brown georgette
frock, the skirt fully-pleated and worn
with brown accessories, while Sylvia
Offeq was a decided contrast in her grey
frock with white accessories. Margaret
Reid (she has just finished playing in
“Invisible Circus” at the Little Theatre)
wore a blue wool coat over her cerise
and black printed frock, and a white
Dutch bonnet and white accessories were
pleasant contrasts.
Navy blue holds its place. Dorothy
O’Keefe favored a light navy jumper-
suit and an upturned navy straw hat
trimmed with matching taffeta bows.
Cool and charming was the navy blue
pin-spotted white shirtmaker frock worn
by Mrs. Arch Aitken, and her large flat
navy hat was relieved by touches of
white. Mrs. John McGrath also wore
navy and a flower-trimmed hat. Another
racegoer who chose the same color,
wearing with it a natural straw hat
banded in navy, was Mrs. Frank Watts.
With her was daughter Shirley in pastel
blue.
Back in her native land after a long
stay in America, Pat Jarrett was guest of
honor at a dinner - party hosted by
Leonard Norman, who literally flew
through Melbourne on his way from
Adelaide to Sydney. Pat, who was secre-
tary to Mrs. R. G. Casey at the Washing-
ton Legation, accompanied the Caseys to
Bengal. She has many memories—she
was in Cairo when Churchill came to the
Middle East, and saw the great parade of
Empire troops in his honor. When the
Caseys returned to Australia Pat came
home for a short time, but went back to
America for a further twelve months.
Now she is home to stay and will soon
begin her job in this city. For the party
Pat wore a smart black frock, featuring
the new push-up sleeve and short skirt.
The popular American shoulder bag of
black suede was much larger than any
seen in this city. After dinner the party
moved on to the “Storklub” for dancing,
and other guests included Mrs. Ivor Mc-
Innes, Freda Irving, who left the next
day for a holiday in Sydney, Ken Brod-
ziak, whose latest publication. Highlights
of Sydney, has been well received by Mel-
burnians, and John Gailey, also of
Sydney.
In answer to the appeal for donations
to the Opportunity Shop, which was
opened in the basement of Cann’s, many
lovely gifts were received ; proceeds are
for the Queen Victoria Hospital Rebuild-
ing Fund. Lady Brookes, president of
the Queen Vic., performed the opening
ceremony and then there was a rush to
buy the many gifts on sale. Beautiful
china, crystal, antique (furniture, knit-
wear and fine handkerchiefs are just a
portion of the stock which are snapped
up as soon as the shop is opened, but
goods come in every day to such a degree
that the conveners of the shop, Mesdames
Albion Walkley and Louis Nelken, are
hoping to keep it going for the duration
of the. appeal, which ends in April.
Sue Howell, daughter of Mrs. Duance
Howell, Toorak, was recently married in
India to Major Leslie Fleming, M.C., of
the Rajputana Rifles. Wedding was
.celebrated at St. Martin’s Church, Delhi,
and the bride was given away by Col.
R. B. Broadbent, who was later host at
the reception, held in the officers’ mess.
Sue wore a frock of finely-embroidered
crepe and carried a bouquet of gardenias.
She met her husband in Burma, while
she was doing a job with the British Army
Public Relations Films. After a holiday
spent with the bridegroom’s parents in
Leeds, they will be stationed at Kuala
Lumpur.


a®
Over 68 years of
service, 1878-1946
On the 14th of June, 1878, The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Limited was established as
the first Corporate Trustee Company in Australia,
its purpose being to provide a more efficient means
of meeting the needs of the community in Estate
Administration.
Since then, the Company has provided the im-
partial advice and assistance of a Permanent Cor-
poration as Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent,
and in other business of a fiduciary nature, to which
activities it Is solely devoted.
By making a Will, appointing as Executor or Co-
Executor this old-established Company, you ensure
the careful and efficient administration of your
Estate and obtain the benefit of over 68 years’
specialised experience at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your solicitors, or write or call for
a free explanatory booklet.
The 'Trnstees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; O. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M. 8., Melb., F.R.C.8., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jonds.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WARES DIRECTORS:
R. T, Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Resile Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.0., D. 8.0.
N.S.W, Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated In Victoria in 1878.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
WITNESS TO THE STARS. An anthology of Australasian Catholic Verse,
edited by Paul L. Grano. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
SOIL AND CIVILIZATION. By Elyne Mitchell, author of “Australia’s Alps”
and “Speak to the Earth.” 4/6 (post. 4d.),
PAPUAN STORY, An absorbing story of New Guinea and the Kokoda Trail,
by Geoffrey Reading. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
NORTH OF 23 DEGREES. Rumblings in Northern Australia, by W. E. Harney,
with photographic illustrations. 9/6 (post. 6d.).
VOCZA AND THE SOLOMON ISLANDS. By Hector Macquarie. A vivid
re-creation of the experiences of a District Officer in the Solomon Islands.
Illustrated. 10/6 (post. 6d.).
GARDENS IN AUSTRALIA. Their design and care, by Edna Walling.
Containing 150 beautiful illustrations. 21/- (post. 6d.).
WATERWAY. A novel by Eleanor Dark, author of “The Timeless Land.” The
author has a grave and beautiful style that gives distinction and rare
human interest to “Waterway.” 12/6 (post. 6d.).
MAN IS NEVER FREE. The story of Tolpuddle Martyrs, by Thomas F.
Mead. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
LEVIATHAN’S INCH. A novel by Brian Elliott. While it is essentially a
novel of contemporary life, “Leviathan’s Inch” is refreshingly unusual in
conception. 7/6 (post. 4<L).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
The WILDAL COUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
f Dividends v
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 381,653 30,000 262,500 89,153 594,009
12J p.ci p.c.
1937.. 453,997 37,500 328,125 88,372 682,381
1938.. 493,668 37,500 328,125 128,043 )810,424
Properties, plant and investment
reserve disclosed, £972,000 .. 1,782,424
1939.. 628.892 37,500 328,125 163,267 1,945,691
1940.. 570,610 37,500 328,125 204,985 2,150,676
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.!
i Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Net*
Profit. p.c. 12i p.c. serves. Reserves.
1941.. 559,576 37,500 828,125 193,951 1,701,371
1942.. 504,428 37,500 328,125 138,803 1,840,174
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1943.- 430,097 30,000 262,500 187,597 1,977,771
Added goodwill, etc., £19,938 ... 1,957,833
Added difference par value and cost
shares subsidiaries, £204,318 ..‘ 1,753,515
b/f net from cos. acquired, £32,359 1,785,874
1944.. 472,128 30,000 262,500 179,628 1,965,502
Reduction intangibles, £l2l . . 1,965,623
1945.. 470,466 30,000 362,500 177,966 2,143,589
Intangibles reduced, £75 .. .. 2,143,664
From tax provision, etc., £799,519.. 2,943,183
1946.. 450,735 30,000 262,500 158,235 3,101,418
* Reduced by book-value of intangibles (now
£1,051,983).
! Excluding outside interests in subsidiaries.
Harold Cohen, who sat at the head of
the board table for the last 19 years, died
on October 29 last. He was also chair-
man of many other cos. and enjoyed a
high reputation in political, legal, military
and social circles as well. His son,
Geoffrey Cohen, follows him as chairman
of C.U.B.
It is the big operating concern which
merged the interests of half a dozen then-
sick Melbourne breweries in 1907, pay-
ing £BOQ,OOO (in scrip) for goodwill. For
more than a decade after the merger it
was busy consolidating its position. Then
it launched out on a policy of expansion,
swallowing one after another of its Vic-
torian competitors—Geelong Brewery,
Melbourne Co-operative, Fitzgerald’s at
Castlemaine and Cohn’s at Bendigo—to-
gether with the hotel interests involved.
Additional interests—names and loca-
tions not absorbed a
couple of years ago. Thus the co. has
secured a, tight grip on a lion’s share of
the trade in its home State, and strong
connections have been built up in Tas.,
North Queensland and the N.S.W.
Riverina as well.
The contraction of £19,731 in last year’s
combined net earnings of the co. and its
subsidiaries was due mainly to the cost
of importing barley and hops, follow-
ing failure of the local crops. Scarcity
of bottles, owing to industrial troubles,
added to the co.’s difficulties. Only part
of the heavy expense incurred is borne
by the latest accounts. Excise paid and
to be paid by the co. on beer made from
imported materials amounts to £915,441,
Excise is now 4s. 7d. a gallon (Is. 9d. in
1939), or 73 p.c. of the brewer’s gross
receipts for bulk beer. The other 27 p.c.
(ss. sd. in the £) has to cover increased
production, distribution and other costs,
including co. tax, as well as profit.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests, allowing £54,931 (down £2149)
for depreciation and something for taxa-
tion, £450,735 of profit Was claimed. It
was 15.4 p.c. on the £2,925,000 of capi-
tal (there are 300,000 7 p.c. prefs., which
advance with the ords. beyond that point),
compared with 16, 16.1, 14.7, 17.2 and
19.1 p.c. back to 1941. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., compared with 12£ p.c.
for the six years to 1942. Also, £799,519
net was taken from accumulated tax pro-
vision—lumped with sundry creditors in
the published accounts —aqd tossed into
general reserves, which means that jn the
past profits had been understated to that
amount. Capital now has the support and
assistance of reserves £3,101,418 in excess
of intangibles (£1,051,983), not treated
as an asset herein.
The rebuilding and remodelling of city
and country hotels is expected to involve
the co. in an outlay of £790,000. There
are replacements and additions to be
made to brewery plant and equipment,
too. The board isn’t likely to have to
go outside for much, if any, of the
money;—• • *
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Outside interests* 9,993 12,856 13,155
Creditors!.. .. 901,868 924,209 543,592
Suspense account. . 11,279 7,761 9,099
Freeholds,
breweries, etc... 2,429,160 2,809,698 2,847,095
Plant .. .. 689,461 600,243 562,767
Stocks, etc. .. 580,139 515,750 592,208
Book debts . . 1,293,306 895,029 1,344,491
Cash, etc 740,257 1,340,770 1,391,953
* Includes proportion reserves. ! Includes tax reserves.
Last year’s growth of £449,462 in
debtors’ balances reflects the revival of
civilian trade. Cash, etc. —the etcetera is
£429,521 of Government securities —was
further strengthened by £51,183.
C.U.B.’s capital is not held directly by
the public, but by the following cos., of
which the first six are listed on the Stock
Exchange; —•
Shares in Last Market
Paid C.U.B. Div., Yield,
Capital. Par Value, p.c. p.c.
Melbourne Co-0p... £431,981 £987,268 23.3 3.4
Carlton .. .. 816,992 928,295 13.0 3.2
Castlemaine .. 225,000 176,121 7.7 3.2
Foster .. .. 115,200 124,573 10.75 3.5
Shamrock..- .. 141,345 124,573 9.0 3.4
McCracken’s , . 62,438 62,438 9.6 3.3
Cohn Bros. . . 93,750 150,000
Melb. & Gen. Inv.
Trust . . . . 150,000' 219,062
Miscellaneous .. 152 670
In addition to divs. from their holding
m C.U.8., some of the cos. gather rents,
etc., from property on their own account.
The market yield is that obtainable from
latest quote for Che scrip.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
- 4- t, * . To Ee ' Re-
kept,, Front. Dividends. serves, serves.
). £ £ £ £
1936.. 110,648 10 p.c. = 75,000 7
Staff bonus, £5OOO .. _ | 20,648 695,453
-,. 0 „ T0 r ® serve unexpired risks, £35,000.. 730,453
1937 91,284 8$ p.c. = 68,750 27,534 757,987
irtoo 0 reserve unexpired risks, £50,000.. 807,987
1938.. 100,506 94 p.c. = 71,250 29,256 837,243
reserve unexpired risks, £25,000.. 862,243
1939.. 118,764 10 p.c.= 76,000 43,764 906,007
reserve unexpired risks, £10,000.. 916,007
1940.. 127,289 10 p.c. = 75,000 52,289 968,296
m,)-. 10 ?l serve unexpired risks, £61,000.. 1,029,296
194 124,928 10 p.c. = 75,000 49,928 1,079,224
m.n To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,094,224
!942.. 142,376 10 p.c. = 75,000 67,376 1,161,600
,ni o 1 ° , r f serve unexpired risks, £15,000 1,176,600
!943.. 149,637 10 p.c. = 75,000 74,637 1,251,237
f° wero imexpired risk, £15,000.. 1,266,237
1944.. 163,976 10 p.c. = 75,000 88,976 1,355,213
m.- 10 l; eserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,370,213
194 u.. 192,432 10 p.c. = 75,000 117,432 1,487,645
m 10 Sene uucxpired risks, £65,000.. 1,552,645
1.946.. 177 003 10 p.c. = 75,000 102,063 1,654,708
Alter providing for unexpired risks.
Actual profits are better than those
shown in the table, which are the figures
claimed by the.co. after allowing for un-
expired risks on the liberal basis of 60
p.c. of net premium income. Not much
notice, therefore, need be taken of the
apparent shrinkage in the 1946 figure.
On the usually accepted basis of a 40 p.c.
reserve for unexpired risks, the year’s
net return from all sources would be
£198,435 (£21,372 more than the figure
claimed), or a juicy 26.5 p.c. on the
£750,000 of capital. Moreover, the net
return from investments alone was
£97,894 (up £6073), or £22,894 more than
the 10 p.c. div. called for, thus leaving
the whole of the underwriting surplus,
and more besides, available to swell in-
vestments and returns therefrom.
On the market, which has always had
a high opinion of the scrip, the pound
shares recently advanced from the old
official ceiling of 695. to 735. At the higher
figure the immediate return is 2.7 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The investor at 735.
Who looks for approximately 4 p.c. on
his money counts on the div. going to
14 p.c., or on a one-for-two bonus share
issue and the div. remaining at 10 p.c.
Here are underwriting performances:
0 , _ •N?* , Loss Expense
Sept. Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. Rate.
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 p.c. 39.8 p.c.
1938.. 691,771 364,631 239,487* 52.7 „ 34 6
1940.. 743,309 382,520 296,822* 51.4 „ 39.9 ,
1941.. 853,576 406,595 334,316* 47.6 „ 39,1
1942.. 872,711 418,965 376,163* 48.0 „ 43 1 ,
1943.. 900,871 412,403 404,823* 45.7 , 44 9 ’
3944.. 907,559 412,989 405,500* 45.5 „ 44.6 '
1945.. 932,777 396,495 420,671* 42.5 „ 45.1 ..
1946. 1,041,848 463,208 434,471* 44.4 „ 41.7 ”
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
£57,904 in 1946. f Including contributions to staff
funds.
The pleasing feature last term was that
an extra £109,071 of net premiums was
gathered at £3 Bs. p.c. less cost. The
gross underwriting surplus was £144,169,
up £28,558.
Overseas business —Canada, Egypt,
Iraq, Palestine, India, Africa and West
Indies—was responsible for a large part
of last term’s underwriting surplus. The
co., which is thus a handy contributor
to Australia’s invisible balance of pay-
ments, opened up again in Malaya last
year. During the current term Burma,
Siam, French Indo-China, Belgium, Hol-
land and New Guinea are also expected
to contribute to the pool. Marine busi-
ness expanded, and there were fewer total
losses, but claims arising from pilfering
were heavy. In the fire section the loss
ratio increased, especially in Australia.
The experience in connection with motor-
vehicle cover was unfavorable, owing to
the growth in the number of accidents;
and an increase in premium rates —they
are still below pre-war levels—on private
cars was granted by the Prices Commis-
sioner.
In April last, headquarters was moved
to Bryant House, a fine new property
with plenty of letting space further up
Pitt-street, Sydney. This property was
bought during the previous term, and the
name has now been changed to Queens-
land Insurance Building. Together with
purchase of premises in Surrey (Eng.),
the deal added £402,612 to the book value
of freeholds:
r- 1945 v 1946 N
p.c. p.c.
Gov. securities ..£1,861,433 46.8 £2,036,832 *49.7
Municipal see’ties 51,429 1.3 51,429 1.2
Deposits, cash,
sundry debtors,
etc 1,324,970 33.3 1,270,330 3LI
Freeholds .. 739,722 18.6 739,647 18.0
Total assets .. £3,977,555 100.0 £4,098,238 100.0
Liabilities* .. 1,702,411 1,656,030
Net assets ..£2,275,144 £2,442,208
* Including contingencies.
Last term’s surplus earnings, and more
besides, were channelled into Govern-
ment securities (up £175,399). In future
more attention is to be given to mort-
gage business, which shows a better re-
turn than is to be had from Government
bonds, and a subsidiary, Queensland Co-
operative Permanent Building Society,
has been' formed for the purpose.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £,£,£,
1935.. 149,622 8f p.c. <= 125,140 24,482 515,973
1936 . . 195,449 10 „ ~ 143,017 52,432 568,405
1937.. 200,114 10 „ „ 143,017 57,097 625,502
1938.. 192,597 10 „ „ 143,017 49,580 675,082
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct., Profit.f Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ SL £, £ •
1939.. 268,289 llj p.c. = 160,894 107,395 1,259,441
1940.. 256,728 10 „ „ 143,Q17 113,711 1,373,152
Reducedintangibl.es, £11,574 .. .. 1,884,726
.1941. . 288,408 10 p.c. = 143,017 145,391 1,530,119
Reduced intangibles, £3l .. .. 1,530,150
1942.. 258,465 10 p.c. = 148,017 115,448 1,645,598
1943.. 279,880 10 „ „ 143,017 136,863 1,782,461
1944.. 237,180 10 „ „ 143,017 94,163 1,876,624
1945.. 330,575 10 „ „ 144,742 185,833 2,062,457
1946.. 215,952 10 „ ~ 145,317 70,635 2,133,092
* After deducting book-value of goodwill (now
£50,935).
+ Adjusted for unexplained variations in reserves.
The sharp drop of £114,623 in last year’s
profit was the result of a steep rise in
production costs without any improve-
ment in selling prices of manufactured
goods. Chairman A. W. Palfreyman sums
up the position in this way:
This [drop in profits] has not resulted
from any loss of trade, for the output of
all the factories at home and abroad has
been reasonably maintained. They have
all manufactured to capacity, consistent
with the labor that was available. The
refusal to work overtime during the fruit
season —an indispensable need in this in-
dustry—has been as disappointing as for
some years past, and will continue while
high income tax remains on workers near
the basic wage.
Shortage of tinplate, cost of which con-
tinued to increase, was anpther difficulty.
There are 22 operating subsidiaries, all
in the jam- and fruit-canning and
-preserving business, etc. Of the lot 11
are in Australia, and the other 12, which
include eight manufacturing and four
merchandising units, are scattered
throughout Maoriland, S. Africa and
Britain. Last term a new factory was set
up at Port Elizabeth, making a total of
four in S. Africa,
In Australia expanding civilian con-
sumption and growth of exports filled
the gap caused by evaporation of service
requirements. Still, owing to the rise in
costs already referred to, there was a fall
of 40.3 p.c. (=£93,072) in Australian
profits (lowest since 1937), compared with
a shrinkage of only 3.8 p.c. (=£3394)
in profits earned outside Australia:
Net income— 1939. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Australian .. £192,667 £158,153 £230,497 £137,425
Other sources* 76,622 78,667 89,179 85,785
Total . . £268,289 £236,820 £319,676 £223,210
After allowing for an unexplained
reduction of £7258 in reserves, last
year’s net profit, as shown in the
introductory table, was £215,952, equal


Contractors to Government Municipal t
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
PTYLTD '
ViKS JS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype and Linotype
Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope Manufacturers
Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rulers, Bookbinders
Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twines
Telegrams and Cables
“ JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys,
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.
Collina
Austra-
—Advt.
*
JLM
~
w V VffilTTOFfwl
V
a'CT
is
4*:-f
Mil
pmj
* rf
«•&
BSSBa
1
ME
IP3
Emerging Triumphant
From Unparalleled Tests • • •
The cars of the Chrysler—Dodge—De Soto line . . . Dodge, De Soto,
Chrysler and Plymouth . . . were created to introduce new standards of
smart, reliable motoring to the automobile world. When the gruelling
test of war came, these grand cars laid aside their glamour, and shared
with Dodge and Fargo trucks the hardships of
the toughest campaigns—from sub-zero Alaska
to the infernos of North Africa and the South
Scores of new developments were forged ii
the heat of necessity, and proved in th<
toughest motoring conditions of all time . .
and the best of those war-time developments
refined to the highest pitch of excellence, gc
to give you better motoring value than ever
Chrysler—Dodge—De Soto have ever offered!
West Pacific,
•dodoi
JRUCKI
ssomiijfy
•aaisxj(fy o
Hinow
«V
AV-'
OIOS 3(J
(AUSTRALIA) PTT.ITDi
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: Harden and Johnston Ltd., York Motors Pty. Ltd.. Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty. Ltd.
• MELBOURNE: Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., Lane’s Motors Pty, Ltd., Automobiles Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.
• ADELAIDE: W ay mouth Motor Company Limited. Flinders Motors Limited.
• PERTH: Winterbottom Motor Company Limited. Wentworth Motors Limited.
• HOBART: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Co-Operative Motors Limited. JJ. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.
CD75
ROMe
to 14.8 p.c. on capital as against
22.7, 16.3, 19.2, 17.7, 19.8, 17.6 and 16.4
p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept at
10 p.c., and,, in the present disturbed
state of the cost-price structure, it is
doubtful whether better need be looked
for.
Over the last 17 years, which in-
cludes the early 1930’s slump, divs.
averaged 9.2 p.c. For 20 years before
that the average was a shade over 11 p.c.,
sweetened with £455,492 of bonus scrip in
1927. Another pleasing feature is that,
at the close of last accounts, each pound
of paid capital had the tangible support
and assistance of 295. 4d. of reserves, so
the two combined need turn m only a
shade over 4 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. in
capital alone.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures of
the group compare as follows:
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £1,430,173 £1,453,173 £1,453,173
Outside interests* 79,477 111,094 97,700
Creditors, etc. .. 419,858 705,274 596,210
Tax reserve, etc... 159,478 541,084 431,024
Suspense account.. 7,691
Freeholds, etc. .. 697,928 809,082 869,524
Plant, etc. .. 279,590 404,484 426,561
Stocks .. . . 872,099 1,348,852 1,440,191
Debtors . . .. 785,068 1,050,465 1,025,476
Shares .. .. 101,245 107,511 123,702
Cash, etc 745,328 1,258,640 841,083
Goodwill . . . . 62,542 50,935 50,935
Suspense account. . 3,036 93,660
* Including proportion reserves.
Last term’s addition of £60,442 to free-
holds, £22,077 to plant and £91,339 to
stocks partly reflects establishment of the
new S. African factory. To meet the
outlay, together with a reduction of
£209,064 in'the amount coming to sundry
creditors and £110,060 in the tax reserve,
cash, etc., was drawn for £417,557. The
more or less liquid, surplus (£2,403,208)
was £115,902 less than at the previous
balance.
The market for the scrip has been
steady around 61s. for some months. The
return at 61s. is 3.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or 3.9 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distribution.
jßroken Hill Corp.. Ltd.
This co. is being formed as a subsi-
diary of Zinc Corp., Ltd., to take over
the latter co.’s investments and interests
other than mining and milling assets.
Nominal capital is £5,000,000 in £1 shares,
of which 1,000,000 4\ p.c. cumulative
redeemable prefs. and 2,000,000 ords. are
to be issued. The lot will be taken by the
parent —750,000 prefs. for cash, and the
other 250,000 prefs. and 2,000,000 ords.,
all fully paid, in settlement for assets
transferred. Later the parent will offer
those on its own register (prefs. and ords.)
the 750,000 prefs. it is now taking up for
cash. Later still the parent’s shareholders
will have an opportunity to subscribe for
ords, in the new offshoot.
Zinc Corp. and its next-door associate
at the Barrier, New Broken Hill Con-
solidated, have adopted a big joint ore-
treatment scheme. All ore from both
mines is to be put through Zinc Corp.’s
mill, capacity of which is to be doubled
over the next ten years, lifting the figure
to 1,000,000 tons ore p.a. This and a
wide range of associated and other ac-
tivities is expected to involve an outlay
of about £7,000,000 stg., which consider-
ably exceeds the co.’s current available
resources, together with any contributions
that could be made from future earnings
without adversely affecting returns to
shareholders. By separating the co.’s in-
terests the board believes that the finance
required can be provided without ad-
verse effect on dividends, and without
any risk to the existing industry.
Zinc Corp.’s paid capital is £1,534,045
in 737,176 5\ p.c. £1 cum. prefs. (half
are redeemable), 470,400 £1 ords. and
653,139 10s. ords. —the latter rank equally
in all respects with the £1 ords. At end
1945 mining property and plant stood in
the books at £2,286,882 net, shares in
other cos. £756,941, and current assets
£1,512,795, which includes £815,656 in
cash and Government securities. Of the
shareholdings quoted stock (in at
£127,974) had a market value of £705,111.
This quoted stock includes a 28 p.c. hold-
ing in New Broken Hill Consolidated,
whose ss. shares recently fetched 40s. 6d.
in the market. Current liabilities totalled
£425,311.
Since end 1946 Zinc Corp.’s ords. have
shot up from the old official ceiling of
975. 3d. to £6 4s. in the market. Two
divs. were paid in 1945 totalling 25 p.c.
Interim for 1946 was 40 p.c.
New” Broken Hill Consolidated
At the extraordinary general meeting of
shareholders in London on December 19
last (B. 25/12/’46), the directors, “after
late consultation with two Colleagues
in Australia,” chipped some of the
ugly edges off their original resolution
asking for a percentage rake-off on future
trading and capital profits of the co.
In its original form the resolution pro-
vided for a fixed annual remuneration of
£5OO for the chairman and £250 each for
other members of the board, plus a
sweetener of 2 p.c. of any profits remain-
ing after shareholders had been paid a
div. of not less than 10 p.c. In addi-
tion, the resolution provided that the
directors were to be entitled in event of
sale of the undertaking to whack up
among themselves 2 p.c. of any profit
over and above paid capital (now
£846,496).
This last part of the resolution relating
to rake-off on capital profit was jet-
tisoned, because “it covers a situation
which is not anticipated and from which
the directors would in no way wish to
benefit,” the chairman said. Bewildered
shareholders are still trying to reconcile
the chairman’s statement with the request
put forward by the directors themselves in
the original resolution.
The resolution as passed leaves the fixed
remuneration at the amounts originally
stated, but limits “further” remuneration
(the 2 p.c. rake-off on trading profit) of
each director to a maximum of £2500 in
any year after 1947. There are four direc-
tors, including the chairman, in London,
and a local board of two in Melbourne.
For each director, including the two in
Melbourne, to receive the maximum
“further” remuneration of £2500 —in
addition to the fixed fee already referred
to —the co. would need to net approxi-
mately 100 p.c. on capital as it now
stands, and pay a div. of 10 p.c. or more.
London-controlled Great Boulder
Prop., operating on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), will pay an interim
12 \ p.c., less U.K. income tax of 9s. in
£, in respect of 1946 on Feb. 24. The tax
reduces the net return to shareholders
to 6.8 p.c. For the three years to end
1945 average declared rate of distribution
was 25 p.c. p.a. For the 12 months of
1945 the co. treated 306,212 tons for
71,5630 z. fine gold. For 40 weeks to
Oct. 15, 1946, 292,902 tons yielded
66,7150z.' fine gold. Th? 2s. stock units
recently fetched 10s. 6d. in Melbourne,
and Bs. 3d. (stg.) in London.
* * *
Westralian gold items: Dolph Agnew,
son of the former chairman, the late J.
A. Agnew, and like him an able mining
engineer, has been elected a director of
Lake View and Star Mountain View
Syndicate, which reported a rich strike
of gold ore toward the close of 1946, has
crushed 550 tons of “seconds” for a yield
of 36240 z. A further 900 tons has been
booked for treatment at a local battery.
.... Blue Spec has issued another bulletin
giving antimonial and gold contents of
concentrates and tailings, but is silent
about the quantity of bullion likely to be
recovered, which is what anxious share-
holders want to know.


I - ' . ' Mj
AUER A DAY Of
mi
m-k
■m
t/te e/rtn A
Inserted on Behalf
of the Brands of
The United
Distillers Pty. Ltd.
The Distillers Cor-
poration Pty. Ltd.
Federal Distilleries
Pty. Ltd.
Successful men in all walks of life know the value of those
pleasant moments at the close of the day when a small quantity
of whisky helps taut nerves relax
i
There are reasons for preferring whisky. First, it aids instead
of taxing the digestion, because its composition is particularly
pure.
Second, the quantity needed for healthful stimulation is small.
Moderate use is wise use . . . and also, it is wise to insist on
an acknowledged quality brand.
The best Australian brands are never less than five years old,
ensuring the wholesomeness of really mellow whisky.
Wll/24
SUNDRY SHOWS
SLUMS AND THE SULMAN.
In almost any year it is a depressing
experience to walk through the dungeon
of the N. S. Wales National Gallery
where are exhibited the entries for the
Sulman Prize —“for the best subject or
genre painting or mural decoration.”
The “subject,” surely a noble opportunity
for the artist to display powers of
characterisation and drama, has fallen low
in the world since the days of Tom
Roberts and Lambert.
To walk once through this year’s entries
is merely to invite a fit of the blues.
To walk through twice is an experience
equivalent to reading a prize serial in
“S. M. Herald” orVf staggering, blissfully
drunk, along a gutter in Surry Hills.
Or Redfern. There is, in fact, a very
large canvas by R. Hardacre entitled
“Redfern Playground,” which shows
harridans gossiping, urchins bounding
about and, against a very good smoky
city skyline, an embattled array of tene-
ments and lavatories. Then there is
James Phillips’s “Friday,” a night scene
in a low pub, with many merry inebriates.
And the back parlor of a low pub with
some ladies —intoxicated if not intoxi-
cating—observed by George Duncan.
And, painted by Garran Brown, a
“Victory Day” showing a lady, also drunk
—unable to stand, in fact —waving a
bottle. And elsewhere some bluish-green
workmen brandishing spanners; and,
further along the wall, more workmen
apparently paralysed with dismay—
as well they might be —at a heliotrope
concrete-mixer.
Not all the paintings, it is true, are con-
cerned with slums or the Worker.
D. Orban has a couple of beach scenes
in which the people merely look a little
decayed, the sand murky and the sea
solid. Douglas Watson shows “Saturday
Afternoon in the Art Gallery” looking
as dismal as only a Saturday afternoon
in the Art Gallery can be. Mr. Duncan
has some country people driving in a
sulky past hills of purple and yellow oil-
paint. And, if you steal a glance into the
next dungeon where the Wynne exhibits
are, there are half a dozen outback land-
scapes by S. Herman and others, located
Lance Solomon’s “JANUARY WEA THER”:
Awarded the Wynne Prize for 1947.
m ji es away from Surry Hills and looking
quite different—or, at any rate, twice as
ramshackle. The people in thesfe paintings
don’t look like Surry Hills drunks at all;
they look like hillbillies.
And there is, too, the prize-winning
Sulman entry, S. Herman’s “Natives
Carrying Wounded Soldiers.” This is set
away up in New Guinea, or somewhere,
and looks exactly as if it were located
in Gauguin’s Tahiti. The soldier wears a
jungle-blue uniform and carries a yellow
tommy-gun; and the natives, wearing
bright cloths, have enormous feet —
something you would see only on a police-
man in Surry Hills.
Yet, even among these remote land-
scapes, a distinct relationship can be
traced to the slum paintings such as an
iron resolution not to dignify man or
beautify woman—if she is not a harridan
then she shall be a hillbilly. And, too, a
pervading depression of spirit; a general
intention to delight the soul of man by
being as glum as last year’s oyster.
The native vitality of some of the
painters struggles hard against this dismal
fashion. James Phillips’s painting, though
gritty in technique, has a strong
lighting-effect and vitality in the figures,
Both of George Duncan’s paintings
have genuine characterisation in them
and a touch of warmth and humor.
“Redfern Playground,” with the cartoon-
like quality of some of Jlay Lindsay’s
slum pictures, is really amusing—and
meant to be. And Rubbo’s “The Con-
spirator” is a powerful study of a young
man with fanatical eyes.
A Movement that is trying to get back
to earth, get back to life, cannot be con-
demned out of hand. But it is equally
difficult wholly to approve of it if you
compare, say, “Victory Day” with
Lambert’s “The Red Shawl.” The slums,
the old harridans, the drunks, are all
very well; life is real, life is earnest and
undoubtedly Mr, McKell should do some-
thing about his electorate of Redfern.
But there are also, among the poor and
among the rich, in the country as in the
city, majesty, grace, delicacy, beauty:
drama on the grand scale, the dignity of
the soul of man. The Movement is lop-
sided.
Nuclear Drama.
In the general dearth of opportunity
presented to it by the Melbourne sum-
mer, drama last week shifted to the
Public Lecture Hall at the University of
Melbourne. A small eager man with a
white upstanding ridge of white hair like
the tuft on a Greek helmet and a sweet,
gentle, amiable expression which belied
the dire nature of the drama he was un-
folding stood in front of a blackboard
and talked.
And there was no doubt about the in-
terest he excited. Staff officers with red
tabs on their shoulders were there, and
they were interested. Admirals and,air«
commodores were very interested,
Businessmen, too, were interested, though
perhaps from a different angle.
Flapper students, professors of physics
and chemistry and engineering, a bearded
young man who might have been an
artist and looked a bit like D. H.
Lawrence, and Vice-Chancellor Medley,
looking rather like a mopoke that finds
itself unexpectedly in the daylight, all
looked interested. The only people who
showed no interest whatsoever were
pressmen, but they would be bored if
they were reporting the Last Judgment.
And, in a sense, it sounded like the
Day of Judgment, for the actor in ques-
tion was Professor Oliphant and his sub-
ject matter was nuclear physics in its
latest aspects and manifestations.
By means of lantern illustrations and
blackboard diagrams Professor Oliphant
traced the astounding story of the genesis
of the theory in a laboratory at Cam-
bridge to its' intensely practical applica-
tion at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. His
manner was ingratiating, as if he were
telling a bedside story, but the statistics
he brought forth were so stupendous
that they actually meant nothing, because
nobody could visualise them, any more
than anybody could feel in his muscles
a temperature 20,000 times that of the
sun’s surface, which was, if the professor
is correctly reported, what the inhabi-
tants of Hiroshima experienced when the
atomic bomb exploded.
Nor was any concrete emotion possible
over the statement that when all the
uranium in the world had been used up
there would be a new source of atomic
power which would certainly be ex-
ploited, and it would be millions of times
more potent than its predecessor and
could never be exhausted.
Nor was it exceptionally moving to
learn that Morgan’s, Rockefeller’s and
Carnegie’s fortunes all rolled into one
couldn’t have built one of the dozen
factories erected to blow up Hiroshima
by Governments which can’t spare a
thousand pounds for a picture.
But it did mean something when the
professor remarked that the bomb that
fell on Hiroshima was a baby compared
to the ones the scientists have up their
sleeves at the present moment, and
amongst all the formulae presented none
struck the audience with a greater im-
pact than the simple formula which the
professor maintained would govern mili-
tary operations in the next war—one
city, one bomb.
And just when the audience was getting
bemused with the enormity of the figures
the professor brought it up against the
grim realities of his subject by remark-
ing that if he added another letter or
figure to the formula he was chalking on
the blackboard he would land himself in
jail.
The only possible defence against
atomic weapons, concluded the professor,
was the complete avoidance of all war;
and what w;as required was the control
of atomic weapons by some body such
as the United Nations so that war itself
would be impossible. With which more
or less comforting assurance the audience
filed out into the night where the stars
were looking down with complete in-
difference on the towers and spires of
the University of Melbourne.


HH
’t&SKJz:
;f Ji
Wm&iXt. 'M
m
5?.
• V**V tV/tCA* V *s* <«< »#
Spßii
KMfe)
Puff of Smoke
THE explosive which sends the bullet from a rifle or the shell
from a gun is known as a propellant. Cordite, a typical
example of such an explosive, is generally produced in the form
of thin cords or tubes. The size of these and the speed at
which they burn determine their suitability for any particular
type of ammunition. In order to find out how fast cordite
burns, the chemist uses this piece of apparatus, which is known
as a closed vessel installation. In it the cordite under test is
fired electrically. As it burns in the enclosed space a sudden
and rapid rise in pressure takes, place. This is measured by a
special gauge. The movements of an indicator rod attached
to the gauge are magnified by a series of lenses and photo-
graphed on to a film attached to 3 drum revolving 600 times
a minute. The movements of a tuning fork vibrating 1,000
times a second are also photographed on the same film. By
comparing the two sets of photos the chemist can calculate
exactly how fast the cordite has burned, even though the
sample may have been burned to destruction in l-200th of a
second. This piece of equipment is one of the
many used by the British chemical industry
in making the ammunition used by sports- <
man and marksman as well as by the fighting
forces.
c
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment—Savings Certificates
IL-1446
SPORTING
NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT! AND IT'S RED MILL RUM.
the 1947 Challenge Stakes, run at Randwick
on Saturday, attracted if nothing else an ill-
behaved field, Felstar, Gay King, Cragsman
and others holding up the start fof almost 1U
minutes. Brazier, carrying only 8.2 and ridden
by G. Moore, was one of the smartest out
from the barrier and certainly the smartest
at the finish, running past Gay King near the
distance and going on to a three-lengths win
from that gelding and Despatch Case. An
aged gelded son of the Phalaris horse Brazen,
Brazier has at the moment struck a purple
patch, winning three in a row, including two
at Randwick. Previously he’d never won at
headquarters, though he’d strung up a dozen
or so wins on other tracks, notably Moorefield.
After causing most of the trouble at the
start Felstar wheeled round as the barrier
went up and ran the race on his own half
a furlong behind* the rest. Afterwards the
starter recomfiiended that Felstar’s nomination
be not accepted in future except in races where
starting staffs are provided.
Gay King was well beaten at the finish:
had he been good enough on the day to win
he’d have given his trainer, F. T. Cush, a
remarkable record in the race. Cush won the
Challenge last year and the year before with
Felbeam, and in 1944 with Yaralla. In the
now two-year-old Temeraire he has one that
could easily win it in the future.
An interesting runner was the aptly-named
Despatch Case (by Diplomat from Monogram).
A four-year-old entire recently imported from
England, he was having his first run in Aus-
tralia, carrying the colors of J. C. Bendrodt.
Conditions on Saturday, with the sting taken
out of the track by overnight rain, may have
particularly suited Despatch Case, but even
so he ' gave the impression that he should
improve on his first-up effort. He began
smartly, was with ’em all the way and, de-
spite running greenly and cannoning into the
rail in the straight, hung on well for the minor
money.
The January Handicap, over 10 furlongs,
went to the Double Remove gelding Doughnut
(G. Podmore), at the bottom of the weights
with 7st. Starting at 8 to 1, Doughnut was
surprisingly well backed in view of the fact that
he finished tenth in Encourage company at
his previous start. Showing signs of improved
form, Invictus led them till collared at the
leger. Doughnut, who had been fairly well
back in the field, finished fast down the centre
of the track to win by two lengths from Grand
Fils and favorite Right Royal.
Having her first run in Sydney after some
success’ in Mdboilrne, the Ajax-Highness filly
Lady Ajax (N. Sellwood) won the Sledmere
Handicap for two-year-olds at the surprisingly
good price of 5 to 2. With topweight of 9.4
she appeared fully extended to down Except
and Shine. Compact, a full brother to Mag-
nificent, had his first outing in the Sledmere
without setting the track on fire, but he looks
worth keeping an eye on.
The mile Valicare Handicap for three-year-
old fillies attracted 13 runners, none of whom
impressed'as ever likely to have a race named
after her. The handicapper didn’t consider
any of them worth giving the maximum 9.5;
Chanson Gai had 9st., Gold Taj being next
with 8.6. It was surprising that Sweet Chime
was not entered, the race being worth picking
up with £lOOO added and with 9.5 it would
have been easy for her. As it was, Lithesome
won it from Tattling, and, sticking on well
after doing the pacemaking, Gold Taj.
The Brueghel mare Sweet Brue in the En-
courage Handicap scored her second successive
win over the Randwick 12-furlongs trip. Ridden
by apprentice F. Walker, reducing her burden
by 71b. to 7.5, she came home too well for
Flaymarket and Fight On. Fine Art gave 1
G. Moore another winner with a very easy
victory over Tamaroa and Ophir in the seven-
furlongs Paddington Handicap.
* * * •
A first-class field, including Attley, River
Hero, Leonard, Kindergold and Oriental, con-
tested the William Reid Stakes over six fur-
longs at Moonee Valley on Saturday, giving
punters a very tough one to pick. There was
fair support for at least seven of the 11 starters,
at prices ranging from eights down to 9 to 2,
Leonard being the most fancied. Bravesia
(D. Snart), with only 7.4, hit the front before
they’d gone a furlong and set a pace which
gave those lumping bigger weights no chancfe
to settle down. After leading clearly into the
straight Bravesia was being rapidly ovemauled
as they neared the judge, but just managed
to see it out. Other lightweights in Grand
Gift (7.6) and Gay Queen (7st.) went closest
to beating the Bravia gelding, Gay Queen par-
ticularly showing good form after a spell.
Mokan’s poor showing at Mentone recently
led punters to forget his otherwise consistently
good form and neglect him in betting on the
mile and a half Cranmallan Handicap, which
he won well. It was a roughly-run race; the
stewards subsequently gave jockey E. Preston
two months’ suspension and apprentice W.
Richards, who rode the winner, a month.
Preston was on Bannerette, finishing third be-
hind Ellipsis. Those racing off to collect on
Mokan at 10 to 1 stopped dead in their tfacks
when No. 7, Queen of the Fairies, was hoisted
as the winner, but the error was quickly cor-
rected.
In the mile Tweedside Handicap for three-
year-olds Flying Fury, with 9.7, found the
job of conceding 111 b. to Tudor Prince beyond
him. He made a bold attempt, jumping into
the lead and holding it until well into the
straight, where, Tudor Prince, Gay View,
Natural and Predominant all passed him and
finished in that order, with very little separat-
ing them.
In the past couple of months there have
been plentiful deadbeats at Melbourne courses
where the camera is not in use. Saturday
saw another, when Somers (J. O’Brien) and
Last Port (H. Badger), almost equally favored
for the second division of the Welter, went over
the line together. Quezon was a couple of
lengths further back, just pipping Rareone
for the minor place, In the first division the
Dhoti filly Mahram (J. Purtell) had a clear
win over Edward John and Lord Baden.
Of the two-year-olds contesting the Niddrie
Handicap, Double Trouble ran an inexplicably
poor race for an odds-on favorite, being never
prominent and finishing ahead of only three
in a field of Id, Actually it was surprising
that Double Trouble should have been quite
“Open your legs a bit!”
such a hot favorite, despite a last-start win.
Royal Mark (W. Williamson), who won the
Niddrie from Verey Light and Dhutia, beat
Double Trouble when last they met and was
meeting the Dhoti colt this time on 21b. better
terms. Double Trouble was also an odds-on
proposition on that previous occasion, which
makes its own comment on the proverbially
short memory of punters.
Up only 41b. for his last start win, Bronx,
with Badger again in the saddle, was able* to
repeat the dose in the mile Caldermeade Handi-
cap. Bronx was always fairly handy behind
the leader, Keller Star, and, hard ridden in
the straight, just collared that Simonian geld-
ing, to whom he was conceding more than
a stone weight. Morbell finished § moderate
third.
* * * *
There were only eight runners in the seven-
furlongs Australia Day Handicap at Randwick
on Monday, lightweight Ophir (G. Podmore)
just lasting it out to beat the fast-finishing
Barnsley, with Count Cosmo third. Codicil
(G. Moore) and Right Royal (N. McGrowdie)
deadheated in the other leg of the double,
the 12-furlongs Anniversary, with Courier third.
The corresponding event at Remington on
Monday, the 13-furlongs Australia Day Cup,
went to A. Breasley’s mount Logical, who woq
from Peter Blank and Sigeum in- a photp.-
finish.
* * * *
M.C.C. tour:
To the end of last week the M.C.C. tour
had totalled 19 matches, 14 of them drawn (a
record of its sort). There had been three wins
(v. Northam, S.A. Country and Victoria), and
two losses in The Tests.
M.C.C. had two days’ batting practice against
S.A. at Adelaide last week, and when it was
time to rest for the Sabbath 562 for 9 wickets
were on the board. Hammond’s 188 put him
among those who have topped 50,000 runs in
first-class cricket.
» ♦ * *
There are a few Adelaide Oval “bests” to
knock over in the latest Test there. The best
wins on that strip are by England (innings
and 230 runs in 1892) and Australia (innings
and 13 in 1898). Highest innings are Australia’s
582 (a second-innings record in all Tests) in
1920-21, and England’s 501 in 1911-12. Of
Bradman’s 17 centuries in Test cricket only
one (212 in 1936-37) was scored on Adelaide
Oval.
With Barnes outed by fibrositis, Merv Harvey
(Vic.) gets his first Test chance, and will be
opening bat with Morris. Harvey has batted
well throughout the season; 136 v, N.S.W.
at Melbourne his best turn.
* * * *
Victoria had no trouble walloping Queens-
land at Brisbane by an innings and 13 runs;
Vic. 466; Q. 235 and 218. Carrigan (58 and
88), a Test player of the future, and McCool
(36 and 26) did best of the Northerners. Vic.’s
four outright wins this season have been
decidedly convincing: Q. was downed by an
innings and 132 and an innings and 13, N.S.W.
by an innings and 114, and S.A. by nine
wickets.
Despite a shaky start, three wickets down
for 80, Victoria piled Up 356 v. N.S.W.
in Sydney. It was Victoria’s lowest score in
Sheffield Shield this season. N.S.W. looked
good for a decent score with two for 164,
but the lot were out for 329.
& * * I*
Cricket as seen through the eyes of a base-
ball player —a few lines from an account of
the third Test which appeared in the “Pacific
Stars and. Stripes,” the U.S. Army daily pub-
lished in Tokyo: “English bowlers held Aus-
tralian batsmen to a low 255 score, fanning
six men With a’ succession of speedy cannon-
balls and slow drop curves in the opening of
the third Test match in the cricket world series.
Even Don Bradman, who usually romps home
100 or more times in his turn at bat, was
dismissed with only 79 runs as the English,
who have been woefully weak in the field,
suddenly came to life.”
* * * *
Tennis championships:
One thing particularly noticeable in the Aus-
tralian championships at White City (N-S.W.)
has been the influence of the Americans’ style
upon our players, especially the younger lights.
Even the usually sedate Bromwich was near
the net rather more than usual, and was bury-
ing smashes with surprising ferocity. Bromwich
reached all three finals, losing the mixed doubles
with Miss Fitch on Saturday to Colin Long
and Mrs. Bolton.
The three Americans who remained for the
championships, Brown, Mulloy and Talbert,
didn’t have much luck. Talbert, a diabetic
sufferer, was at the time medically unfit to
play in the doubles quarter-final, in which
he and Mulloy were beaten by Long and
Brodie. In Tom Brown as seen at White City
there was no sign of the player who reached
the finals of the American national champion-
ships before losing to Kramer; in fact, he
produced very poor tennis for a first-class
player. However, in court manners he could
give some of our leading players and at least
one of his own compatriots a few overdue
lessons.
With an eye to the future of the Davis Cup
the best thing seen at White City was the
doubles form of a pair of youngsters, Frank
Sedgman (19) and George Worthington (18).
Brilliantly fast lads in good nick, they have
adopted the American style of play with a
vengeance. They were beating Pails and Geoff
Brown when Brown forfeited, walking off the
court in protest against having to play a
doubles quarter-final an hour or so after he’d
played a singles match. Then the junior pair
eliminated the old firm of Brodie and Loijg,
a grand effort which took them to the finals
against Bromwich and Quist.
Mulloy and Tom Brown reached the semi-
finals of the singles before being eliminated
respectively by Bromwich and Pails, who met
for the final, a great match, won by Pails, 3-2,
the final set 8-6.
* * * *
N.S.W. athletes cleaned up most of
the titles at the opening of the Australian
A.A.A. championships at Perth on Satur-
day; John Treloar (100yds.; heat time,
9|sec,, equals Australian record), Gfcorge
Campbell (mile in 4min. 18fsec.), A.
Stubbs (three-mile walk in 21min.
43|sec.), E. Winter (pole vault, llft. ;
10in.), B. Shieles (javelin throw, 177 ft.
Byin.) and A. Howie (shot putt, 42ft
4|in.). Others winners were J. Bartram
(Vic,), 440yds. in 48iseq, ; T. Bruce
(S.A.), broad jump, 24ft. 10|in., an Aus-
tralian record; and C. Green (W.A.),
120yds. hurdles in 14fsec., equals Aus-
tralian record. Treloar won the 100yds.
by inches from Bartram, with Elvy
(N.S.W.) and Dunn (formerly N.S.W*—»
now W-A.) very close.
* * * *
West Maitland featherweight Doc
Wallace (Bst. 121 b.) has had many wins
by the k.o. process, but he was over-
matched when he faced up to Ted
Sprouster (9st. 11b.) at Leichhardt. He
landed very few punches solidly on the
shifty Sprouster, who piled qp points with '
snappy straight lefts and numerous rights.
Not having won a round, Wallace was
kindly asked by referee Art Mawson at
the end of the tenth if he could carry
on. Wallace reckoned he could, but he
was banged so severely in round 11 that
the ref. placed the hand of mercy on
Sprouster’s head.
♦ * ♦ *
In an engagement that was looked on
as a light evening’s amusement for him,
the boomed cullud American Clint Miller
was licked on points by Victorian feather-
weight champion Billy Alexander over
12 rounds at Melbourne Stadium. Miller,
brought out by Freddy Cochrane, was
supposed to be merely loosening up for
a match with Australian feather champion
Eddie Miller. Another of the negro
glovethrowers—they appear to be com-
ing along in droves —pqf up a better
showing in MX., welter Willie Jones
going five good rounds with Patrick’s
conqueror. Bos Murphy, before he was
knocked out. And as the knockout came
after the bell, Jones got the decision.


mat atm mm
ai aim id
MS ml ml aim
ma
DIRECTORS;
T. H. .KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. y. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Yon can lift the
burden of
TRUSTEESHIP
If you are the Trustee of a deceased
friend’s Estate and find the responsibility
burdensome, you can arrange to transfer
the burden to Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited.
Your friend, when he made the Will,
probably did not contemplate how the
War and increasing taxes would increase
the weight of your responsibilities; nor
probably did you when you assured them.
Such transfers are frequently made at a
small cost to the Trust Estate concerned.
An interview with a senior officer of the Company is
suggested, or perhaps you would prefer to write for
an explanatory booklet which will be gladly sent on
request.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING UESS THAN £10,000).
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord's Place, Orange.
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga
Northern Districts Representative; F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance Building,
Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
„ Premiums will never be lower
• Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependents carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “Na” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and
your family, and for what little half-yearly cost I
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
D. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P/J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria- A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Otifensland- A.C.A. Buildino, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia; Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Business,Rolleuy,Etc.
A Change of Course?
Twice recently the Federal Government
has indicated that it is going to allow
costs inflation to enter into the economic
system naked and unashamed, except
where it is able to make industry carry
extra costs; and some are wondering
whether this is to be taken as a guide
to the ultimate policy of the Government.
The two cases in the public eye are the
7s. interim increase in the basic wage
(which is not to be offset by subsidy), and
the withdrawal of the subsidy on the cost
of imported tobacco, which has had the
general result of increasing the price of
cigarettes by a ha’penny per packet of
10.
The cost of subsidies, of course, comes
out of taxation. And it is becoming
generally evident that Australian tax rates
are probably the highest in the world,
especially on the middle and upper in-
comes. Even on the lower categories the
burden is heavy, and the general effect
has been to discourage incentives to pro-
duce oj: to save. In a country starved of
production the effect of high taxation
has become a major evil. It is doubtful
whether taxes, by restricting some spend-
ing power, are really curbing inflation,
since the best long-range offset to credit
inflation is bountiful production, a thing
that shrinks under a heavy tax-load.
Price-stabilisation subsidies last year
cost the nation £l3 million. For the
year ending on June 30 next it is esti-
mated that £l6 million will be spent out.
of taxation on price subsidies, as well as
£7 million in assistance to primary pro- ‘
ducers. Of this year’s price subsidies, £2
million is set aside for imported clothing,
£3 million for tea, and £1.5 million for
other imported items. And, because of
the rise in the world price of wool, manu-
facturers of woollen goods are receiving
rebates in respect of prices paid for the
staple to the extent of £1.5 million. This
is in sharp contrast, incidentally, to the
policy adopted*in respect of metal prices
and metal manufacturers. Producers of
lead and zinc in the Commonwealth are
being paid only about a quarter of the
price which the metals command on the
London market, and no subsidies to metal
manufacturers are therefore necessary.
The mines are meeting the whole of the
subsidy before the metals enter the
factory and thus 'represent a shock-
absorber as regards rising prices of metal
manufactures.
The Federal Budget has been used as
a huge economic and political shock-
absorber for several years. -It carries the
losses on inter-State shipping resulting
from high pay and poor service in the
maritime and stevedoring industries. For
a period it accepted the increased burdens
imposed by cost-of-living rises in the basic
wage, allowing businesses to recoup the
increase out of the payroll tax in many
cases. It has maintained a large number
of trade-unionists on the Government
payroll where there have been prospects
of an industry, like shipbuilding, closing
down through prohibitive costs.
Through its huge and expensive
National Welfare Fund it has provided
unemployment relief —and, virtually,
strike pay—while offering increased old-
age and similar pensions, greater child
endowment and many other “benefits.”
Wherever, in fact, there has been a danger
of fundamental price inflation, unemploy-
ment or a real demonstration of the
actual economic and political situation
of the country there has been a Govern-
ment tendency, sometimes a remarkable
willingness, to cover the whole thing up
under a subsidy or other charge on the
national Budget, with the effect of in-
flating expenditures and maintaining a
heavy and depressing burden of taxation.
This policy has been one full of
danger, because the original economic
purposes behind war-time subsidies and
the like rapidly degenerated into politi-
cal motives, especially after hostilities
ended. Vote-catching was a cost added
to public expenditure. Militant unionists
“ Operator! Gei me the Collapsible Camp Stretcher Co. Urgent !”
and Communists found in the swollen
but embarrassed public purse a great
opportunity for industrial blackmail, for
extraordinary personal power. And the
heavy taxation that resulted from the
Government attempt to control the
national economic barometer has brought
on the nation a form of financial and
industrial socialism, with initiative largely
taken from private enterprise and with
industrial discipline left almost entirely
in the hands of militant trade-union
leaders.
This has all helped in leading to a
state of affairs where production has
broken down repeatedly in a country
where output should be bountiful; and
even Mr. Chifley has been forced to ad-
mit tfyat he is sick of the situation. Which
leads to the interesting question as to
whether the Parliamentary leader of the
Labor party is going to cease to lend
Government patronage and budgetary
assistance to the economic and industrial
disorders becoming so much a part of
the Australian scene, and whether he is
planning a return to a less-controlled
economy in which natural forces will play
a prominent part. It is quite obvious that
while the A.C.T.U. dictates the Govern-
ment’s policy and influences the extensive
taxation and wide redistribution of the
national income we shall continue to drift
towards breakdown in industry and
finance. Private enterprise and initiative,
with competition both for production and
for labor, must be allowed to reassert it-
self over a wide field, and individual
thrift must be encouraged. It is entirely
wrong that a people should be hood-
winked into becoming political and
economic dependants of any Government
that is under the thumb of any vested
interest.
Industrial Shares
With turnover still at a high level there
was a steadying in the prices of Stock
Exchange securities at the week-end,
though retail shares, which had experi-
enced a rapid inflation after unpegging,
were an exception—by Saturday the
Sydney index for this class of share was
down to 176.9, compared with 186.9 on
January 13. There has been too easy an
assumption on the part of the share-
market that retailers are going to con-
tinue living under the present artificial,
almost non-competitive conditions for
ever, and that they will benefit from a
freeing of production and trade almost
as much as manufacturers and whole-
salers. This is by no means assured.
Factors which may bring enlarged pro-
duction and increased margins of profit
to manufacturers may be omens of in-
creased competition in the retail trade.
All the same, the present high dividends
flowing from retail stores undpubtedly
influence a sharemarket hungry for yields
higher than Ihe present £3 2s. 6d. per
cent, offering on long-term -Consols and
very little more on first-class industrials.
The rise in the fortunes (and dividends)
of representative Australian retailers was
illustrated here last week. A different
picture is revealed among industrial
issues. Only during the last six
months has B.H.P.’s dividend returned
to near the post-war rate (allowing for
the capitalisation of share premiums);
during most of the war it was at 5 p.c.,
and present profits are greatly below pre-
war earnings. A.C.l.’s div. is now under
the 1939 rate, and so is that of British
Tobacco, Bradford Cotton, Yarra Falls,
Olympic Tyre, Dunlop Rubber, Kandos
Cement, Newbold Firebrick, Adelaide
Steam, Huddart Parker, North Coast
Steam, Australasian Paper, Amalgamated
Wireless and numerous other concerns.
In the case of Colonial Sugar the present
div. is .a shade higher than before the
war, but it is lower than in 1944.
The Sydney index of industrial shares
rose from 128 in June, 1939, to 135,4
in January, M 940. It stood at the'same
figure—after severe relapses—in Septem-
ber, 1941, a couple of months before
Japan came into the war. Last week the
industrial-share index stood at just under
173. Though higher than at any time
before the war, and comparing with the
final “peg” of 171.3, support for indus-
trial shares this year has been weaker
than for most other sections. This
apparently arises from the fact that
earlier valuations of industrial stocks
had been generally in advance of those
for, say, retailers, from the fact that labor
troubles and price-control now affect
manufacturers most, and that immediate
yields available have a big influence upon
current market valuations.
Whilst these current considerations
must have a bearing on share prices,
the long-term aspect should not be over-
looked by the investor. Most market
profits are made by studying the long-
term picture and most losses from taking
the short view. The future of Australia
is wrapped up in its fundamental in-
dustries —land products and manufactures
—and the employment pyramid is based
on this primary and secondary produc-
tion, whether for the home market or
for export. The employment offering in
Australia in the future will greatly de-
pend upon the extent of its manufactur-
ing resources and the nature of its water-
supply and other public works; and it
will be good public policy in more settled
times to encourage productive industry
—by financial assistance and reduced
taxation—just as much as to make greater
areas habitable by water-conservation and
-reticulation and the provision of electric
power.
Those engaged in industry today,
harassed by labor indiscipline, wearisome
controls and high taxation, are working
for the time when initiative and hard
work will bring greater net rewards to
all concerned, including those who risk
their capital in industry. Such times seem
bound to come eventually. It has already
been demonstrated in New Zealand and
this country ,that socialism, or any
approach to it, brings in its wake fallen
production and living standards, and that
the paper-money prosperity which seems
to be an attendant of socialistic policy
is a mockery. With reduced price sub-
sidies and contracting- Government ex-
penditure the truth of all this seems to
be becoming daily more apparent to the
rank and file. There is thus hope that
trade-unionism as well as Governments
will accept the view that private enter-
prise, working within the laws of a watch-
ful democratic Government, must be
given full encouragement to make reason-
able profits and raise the living standards
of all in the making of them. The putting
of such a policy into effect may be a year
or two off, but it is undoubtedly the in-
ducement by which most manufacturers
are staying in business.
For these reasons industrial stocks are
undoubtedly the most interesting on the
share-lists. As a • private-enterprise
country Australia would seem to be
assured of a future. Our exchange
rate is at present an aid to marketing,
and our real costs of production could
be rapidly reduced by a reasonable trade-
union attitude.
From February, 1940, until January
23, domestic prices for Canadian lead
and zinc were fixed at 5 cents and 5£
cents a pound respectively, even though
world prices eventually went to more than
double those figures. Last week the ceil-
ing for lead was raised from the equi-
valent of £35 (Australian currency) a ton
to £75, and zinc in proportion. Copper
has also been controlled in Canada, but
it is reported that ceilings may soon be
abandoned altogether. Australian metal
prices have been controlled since the
outbreak of war, and the disparity with
world prices has been far greater than in
Canada. Lead and spelter are still fixed
at £22 a ton here, compared with £B7
10s. Australian in London.


New
Cream Deodorant
safely
Stops Perspiration
i
m
Does not irritate skin.
Does not rot dresses and
men’s shirts.
5 Prevents under-arm odor.
Stops perspiration safely,
3 A pure white, antiseptic,
stainless vanishing cream.
4 No waiting to dry. Can be
used right after shaving.
6 Laboratory tests prove
ARRID is entirely harmlcs*
I to any fabrics.
Arrid is the largest selling
deodorant. Try a jar to-dayl
ARRID
1/- a jar At all chemists & stores
Also In 0id. Jars " elling toilet goods
D Istri tutors: Fassett & Johnson Ltd., Sydney
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage*
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with Orders. Send direct to —<
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane,
Queensland.
Tirj>
£
%
<?
Che
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and Conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance.. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present' appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. BTosworthy - Eewis Armstrong . Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W, Black.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE:' 'BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydntf.
BP * U.
you cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
HARTS
Circular Charts lor aU types oi
Recording Instruments for any clast
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specially.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON A O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE, 0 LO.
TROJAN
The sugar cane that is bred
lihe a race-horse
; 1
' '
m
m
Forty-seven tons to the acre where only thirty-four tons grew before
-—that’s Mr. Gilbert’s experience with Trojan (at right), the remark-
able new sugar cane now so popular in Northern canefields. Mr.
Gilbert’s farm is near Ingham, Herbert River District, Nth. Queensland.
II
I
m
lii
1
sis*
ill
Trojan is a product of C.S.R.’s cane experiment and breeding staff
and has a pedigree of New Guinea, Indian, Barbados, Mauritius and
Queensland stock. Tens of thousands of seedlings are rejected
before a champion of Trojan's quality is found; after testing for
six to ten years, approved cane plants are released to growers by
CkS.R. free of charge.
Sweet canes like Trojan
please growers and millers,
too, as they get more sugar
for every ton of cane crush-
ed. There are thirty-five
mills in Australia, seven of
which are owned by C.S.R.
The efficiency of the sugar
industry has kept Australia
supplied with sugar at a
price which was reduced
twice between 1922 and
1933. Despite rising costs,
the price has not altered
for the fourteen years since
1933. Australian sugar is
as pure and as low in price
as. any in the world.
1900
1945
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Mr. Hugh Dalton, Britain’s Chancellor
of the Exchequer, hopes to bring the
national accounts close to balancing in
1947-48 notwithstanding taxation con-
cessions to industry as well as to in-
dividuals. The Attlee Government as a
whole is not so hopeful about the produc-
tion outlook of Britain —a White Paper
just issued describes the situation as
“extremely serious” —and the overseas
trading position is still a long way off
balance, even if better than expected 12
months ago. Some people in Britain are
questioning the soundness of the extreme
nature of the export drive, and are ask-
ing whether it wouldn’t be better to live
off the U.S. loan for a year or two and
let the badly-fed and -housed people con-
sume British goods now diverted to the
export trade. Apparently such a change
is regarded as too desperate a gamble to
be entertained in responsible quarters.
* * * *
Mr. Beasley has announced that Aus-
tralia’s London balances now total about
£l7O million -sterling compared with
about £l4O million at June 30. At that
time the Commonwealth’s total holding
of international currency was equal to
£215 million Australian —about £172
million sterling.
* * * *
British Nylon Spinners, England, is
controlled by Courtaulds and Imperial
Chemical Industries. Raw material (nylon
polymer) is supplied by 1.C.1, under a
reciprocal arrangement with E. I. du Pont
de Nemours, U.S.A. Spinning of the
yarn has been carried out at Coventry,
but a large new factory is being erected
by British Nylon Spinners at Pontypool.
This will not be operating until 1948,
and a large capital investment will be
called for ; but the eventual demand for
nylon products is expected to be huge.
Britain, because of stress of war, has
lagged behind the U.S.A. in nylon pro-
duction, and in the days before lend-lease
disposed of its Courtaulds interests in
the U.S.A. at sacrifice prices in order to
obtain dollars to buy munitions and food.
* * * ♦
There has been a bad blackmarket
going on in softwoods in the Sydney
timber trade for three years past. Cypress
pine is prominent in the racket. Some-
times the premium paid by the frustrated
builder is no more than the additional
cost of handling the timber on trucks at a
railway siding whilst paying timber-
yard prices ; sometimes the “black” load-
ing is considerably more. As usual,
gentlemen of foreign birth who found
Australia a happy haven during the war
are figuring in the racket.
* * *
Pegged for a lengthy period at 345. 6d.,
the ordinary shares of Masonite Cor-
poration have risen to 425. 6d. on the
freed Exchanges. This is an interesting
industrial venture for the products of
which there exists an unsatisfied demand.
The issued capital is made up of 287,500
ords. of £1 each and 100,000 deferreds of
2s. 6d. The sharemarket is concerned
chiefly with the ords., which are entitled
to a first 7 p.c. div. and then half par-
ticipation with the deferreds in any addi-
tional profits. The deferreds, it will be
noted, are on a good thing, on paper and
in practice ; however large the ord. capital
employed may expand, the deferreds
are still entitled to half of all the
profits over 7 p.c. on ord. capital. Last
year, for instance, the £12,500 of deferred
capital was allotted dividends of £12,000.
But the ords. aren’t doing badly. Declared
profits last year were £44,058, of which
£31,900 was set aside for the ords. (11.3
p.c.), £12,158 for the deferreds. An 8 p.c.
div. was declared on the ords., calling
for £22,562, and over £9OOO was carried
to ord, reserves. Future trading pros-
pects are bright. The co, has in hand a
programme to double the capacity of its
plant (at Raymond Terrace, N.S.W.), and
this should shortly be completed; but
during the whole of last year funds raised
to finance the duplication were lying in-
vested in Commonwealth stock, of which,
with cash, the co. held £168,133 last
balance day. The board has commented,
apparently with justification, that the co
“is very strong and its assets are con-
servatively valued.” The great demand
for building materials should ensure an
increasing turnover for the co. as its
capacity is enlarged, which indicates
a growing profit on a capital already
adequate for production purposes. The
plant has operated fully except during the
December, 1945, electricity failure. The
co., has been reducing the price of its
products rather than raising it. The ords.
at 425, 6d. return £3 15s. per cent, on an
8 p.c. div. basis, or £4 14s. per cent, if
a 10 p.c. distribution follows the opera-
tion of the duplicated plant. Such a dis-
tribution would partly depend on an ade-
quate supply of labor, partly on the
attitude of the Prices Branch both as re-
gards rising costs and possible bigger net-
profit margins.
The setback in the rate of increase, in
savings-bank deposits is in keeping also
with movements in trading-bank deposits.
Possibly this decline in trading-bank
deposits is seasonal; but there is no doubt
that the pinch is on so far as savings-
bank accretions are concerned. Possibly
a decline in the national income, notice-
able in 1944-45, will be evident again
for 1946-47, This fall may not apply
to the amount of the national production
available for civil consumption—there
should be a large increase in this item
notwithstanding strikes and the like
—but wages paid on munitions and other
Government “jobs” have shrunk consider-
ably, even if still too high. This is so
despite the fact that the nation is crying
out for increased production and is pre-
pared to pay overtime to get it. Millions
of pounds were scattered wastefully by
the Federal Government in wages during
the war, and some of this waste still goes
on ; but if all sections of the community,
including the coalminers, set out now to
do their best the national payroll would
be again every bit as large as it was in
1943-44, and, what is more, there would
be goods of the right kind and quality on
which it could be spent. The fall in sav-
ings-bank deposits now is partly the re-
sult of smaller incomes among wage-
earners and partly of deferred spending
now gathering momentum. Because of the
present poor rate of production delayed
spending is proving costly. It takes a lot
of savings to buy anything worth while.
♦ * * *
“S.T.S.”: A hardy evergreen is the
Northern Territory Land Company, of
Adelaide. At a remote date when S.A.
managed the N.T., and got up a boom
over it, the co. bought over 70,000 acres
up north, at 7s. 6d., sold luckily some
£4OOO-worth, invested this, and sat back
for further offers, which never came.
Three of Adelaide’s best businessmen
accept yearly nine guineas between them
as directors, and announce “No oppor-
tunity of dealing with the co.’s land
during the year. Income is sufficient to
cover expenses.” And then they pay
Federal income tax, and use the small
credit balance for buying more Com-
monwealth stock.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: We were toiling for
one of the oldbst coves we’d ever seen,
out on the N.S.W. Bland, when he an-
nounced that his brother had died, would
be interred at Caragabal next day and we
could go to the funeral. Attired as be-
fitted the occasion we duly attended.
The rites over, we were looking for the
boss among the little crowd and dis-
covered him talking with another ancient
cove whom he introduced as his elder
brother. This one was old enough to
skite about it. “Yair,” he said, proudly,
“I’ll be 96 next March.” Mat surveyed
him, then looked at the immediate sur-
roundings. “Cripes,” he said, “it’s hardly
worth y’r while goin’ home, is it?” The
boss drove us home in a frigid silence.
* * * »
“Salmon Gums”; It’s easier to mock at
the water diviner (B. 1/1 / ’47) than to
disprove him. I once persuaded an old
gardener near Pefrth to enlist the services
of a diviner who was backing his peculiar
faculty with hard cash on his own
property, and getting results that savored
of something more tangible than mere
luck. This dowser found several leads
and indicated good sinking places, but
the old chap was not convinced until,
rather self-consciously, he cut a peach
twig and followed the diviner’s move-
ments. The first few twitches brought
mild astonishment, followed by a vain
determination to prevent the downward
movement of the fork. The green bark
twisted off in his firm grasp, but the twig
pointed to the ground. We sunk and
found water, which may not be proof of
the diviner’s art. But some force moved
that twig in the old sceptic’s hands.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Curyo Charlie was far
down in the Victorian Western District,
not having too good a spin, when he
heard of a show over the S.A. border at
a place called Penola. He yoked up his
horse, loaded his sweat-wheel and other
paraphernalia for the extraction of cash
into His buggy and invaded the South
Australians. He’d hardly hit the ground
at Penolk when a policeman sternly
warned him that “no shenanigans” were
allowed. Curyo withdrew to another
part of the ground, there to meet an-
other trooper with the same warning.
Muttering disgusted maledictions on this
peculiar country, Curyo joined the
crowd listening to some bigwig from
Adelaide performing the official opening,
drifted morosely to the bar and was
slowly contemplating his second drink
when he was bumped aside. Turning, he
found hifhself being apologised to by {he
bigwig. Charles accepted the apology
and the offer of a drink, then asked,
“Ain’t you the cove that opened the
show?” “Yes.” “Well, if y’ll take my
tip y’ll close the ruddy thing again,”
snarled Curyo, headed for his turn-out
and disappeared towards the border.
* * * *
“Chuck”: “Wish I could get a turkey,”
Ted told old Sam. “Like one of those
Scraggs rears in that high-netted paddock
of his. The dog he’s got looks after ’em.
Brings ’em in nice and steady down that
lane at the far side, and, if Scraggs wants
one to kill, the tyke just gives its head
a squeeze and presents it to him. Got
hundreds, Scraggs has, but he won’t sell
any locally. I tried hifn.” “P’raps he
don’t like y’,” drawled Sam. “Y’ got to
have influence to git things these days.
I could do with one of those birds me-
self, Ted; and I’ll be going that way
tomorrer,” Ted watched for Sam the fol-
lowing evening, and strode down to the
road as he saw him coming. “Influence,”
grinned the old chap, tapping a big
gobbler that swung behind his saddle.
“I told y’.” Ted gaped in astonishment.
“Cripes,” he gasped, “I didn’t know you
knew Scraggs that well.” “I don’t,” ad-
mitted Sam calmly. “But I know his
dog.’ r
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Mention of ibises
breeding in Australia (B. 1/1 / ’47) —as of
course they do—sent me back quite a few
years to a time spent working on the
Nullabor Plains. There I found a bird
with a small body, long beak and long
legs—the latter about 10 or 11 inches.
It flew shqrt distances only and, on
landing, ran several yards with quick little
steps like a sandpiper. I never discovered
its name, and never ceased to wonder
at its seeming incongruity in a locality to
which it was obviously native.
* * * *
“Blime”: Bob had lent Peter his rabbit
pack, and, fearing the queer old bachelor
might not look after the tykes properly,
he rode out a couple of days later. First
thing he spotted as he approached was
the pack tied at intervals along the horse-
paddock fence, while the old bloke, red-
eyed and distraught, stood in front wag-
ging a short stick. “Now, you on the
end,” he called loudly, “Speak up.” He
stopped to drive an old cow closer.
“There y’ are, sool ’im. Speak up.” Half
a dozen mongs lifted their voices furi-
ously at the cow. “Not youse,” bawled
“Now, Fishnut, perhaps you'll get the hole in the roof mended!”
Peter. “One at a time, blast y’. Awright,
you first.” Bob stood at a saffe distance,
looking on. “Starting a class in voice
training?” he called, “Just tryin’ ’em
out,” came the weary reply. “Ha, too
deep, that ’un. I’ll shift" him over here.
Now, next ’n. Speak up.” He went along
the row, coaxing the dogs and turning a
critical ear as they responded. “No,
neither o’ youse ’as got the right note,”
he murmured. “Want a short, high-,
pitched one,” he told Bob, “with a sort
o’ quiver.” “Yair?” Bob humored him.
“Well, I got a foxie with that sort o’
voice,” he suggested. Pete turned back
to the pack. “Awright, if I find this
bloke, y’ c’n take the yappin’ cow back
an’ put up with him,” he growled. “Then,
p’raps, a man’ll get a bit o’ sleep at
nights,”
“C.E.”; Wally and his dog had worked
sheep together till age stiffened the old
collie’s joints and slackened his efforts to
quarter-speed; then Wal introduced a
pup to help out. The youngster was half-
hearted and timid, and, realising a candid
roaring-up would send him home with the
sulks, Wal persevered in seething silence
for the small assistance he rendered.
Slowly they neared the yards with a mob
of woollies, the old dog about knocked
up, the young one disinterested, “G’way
there,” called Wally, as the leaders strung
out. There was no response from the
new mong, so old Ringer labored round
to check the lead, “Back,” Wal whistled
as the tail stopped. Ringer eyed the
other dog, glanced at Wal and went after
the tail. The whistle came again at a
break on the flank, and once more Ringer
eyed his helper before limping off to turn
them in. Then the lead charged once more.
Wal called to the new dog, coaxed and
encouraged, and ordered him off, but the
mong’s response was to flop in a patch
of shade. It was too much for Ringer.
With a last reproachful look at Wal, he
made for the lazy youngster, and used
his remaining strength administering
justice.
$ * * *
“Hornless Horseman”: Victorian
motor-cars, steadily increasing as they
are, are taking heavy toll of the
State’s magpie population. Whether the
arterials lead to Geelong; Hamilton, Bal-
larat, Kyneton or Warragul, the bitumen
is everywhere dotted with the carcasses
of these black-and-white carollers, and,
in places where highways pass through
trees and crop-like grass, one can often
count 15 to 20 flattened birds ahead of a
car. Driving a week or so "ago from
Daylesford towards Woodend we counted
up to 500, then gave up the tally. Vic-
torians are puzzled at this phenomenon,
which even in pre-war motoring days had
no precedent. My theory is that the ex-
ceptionally long grass following the
drought years has encouraged the maggies
to feed on the insects killed on the roads
by passing cars. The old birds in their
day learnt the art of dodging by raising
their wings and gliding low to the side
of the road, but this season’s youngsters,
because of the high grass against the
bitumen, are compelled to take off by
flying high, which doesn’t allow any
misjudgment with oncoming radiators
approaching at 50 m.p.h.
* * * iK
“Betcha”; Old Charlie got as far as
the store doorway, paused, then turned
back thoughtfully. “I bin workin’ it out
lately,” he remarked to Bob, seated on
the edge of the verandah, “that a bloke’s
a fool not to have everything he wants
nowadays. ’Specially when he’s worked
as hard as I have.” The other nodded
gravely. “You’re right, Chari,” came the
reply. “Take yourelf now. You’ve stuck
to it solid for close on 50 years, and
what’s the good, when the flamin’ Gov-
ernment takes it orf y’ in taxes?” “Just
what / figured, Bob,” snorted Charlie.
“Why should a man stint himself for
them rooks to pinch it off him? It’s only
the last few years -I’ve got much more
than tucker off that place o’ mine, an’
now they’ve taken so much the only
way to stop ’em is to spend, see? Buy
luxuries. Have everything y’ want.” He
turned purposefully towards the store,
then again paused. “Yair, but wait on,
it ain’t their cut a bloke’s spending,” he
pointed out. Bob considered the matter.
“Aw, I dunno,” he mused, “If y’ save
y’ll git interest, an’ they’ll take a whack
of that, won’t they?” “That’s right.
Bob,” nodded Charlie decidedly, “But
I’ll fix it. Blow it on luxuries, see? Yair,
I’ll get that extra tin o’ jam now, an,’
cripes, I might even git meself a little
bit o’ cheese.”
* * * 9
“Lower Tops’l”: Distances don’t mean
a thing in the everyday life of a swallow.
At St. Leonards, that picturesque fishing
village on the sou’-western shore of Port
Phillip, a pair of these black-and-brown
fliers built a nest on the combing of Len
Corrigan’s fishing boat. When the nest-
lings were hatched and Len began hook-
ing five miles off shore, Mr. and Mrs.
Swallow used to fly the ten miles out and
back from the land every hour of the
day to feed the youngsters.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Ganders as watchers
(B. 8/1/’47)? My sole bright memory
remaining from the weariness of Roman
history as expounded at school 'is that
of the geese who saved the Capitol from
capture by awaking the sleeping sentries.
Many centuries later their descendants
were still kicking up the same infernal
row below my back-bedroom window of
a Roman hash-foundry whenever some
wandering night-roisterer chanced to pass.
In pre-war Java they were often kept as
home-guardians in place of dogs, possess-
ing the triple advantages over any kind
of mong of being immune from hydro-
phobia risk, of not being equipped by
Nature to inflict an actionable bite on
any innocent bystander and of providing
succulent tucker for their owners. My
first introduction to them was, effected
by a bright little Dutch lass of ten who
had waited at her parents’ gateway to
get her first sight of th 3 visitor from
mysterious Ostrarlya. As the feathered
guardians rushed hissing and gargling
across the lawn she reassured me in her
best school-acquired English: “Fear not
—dose only our watcher-gooses are.”
* * * *
“Loc”: Her numberplate told me that
the woman driver was from another
State —her gear change that even in Vic-
toria they should not have granted her a
licence. She could probably hear my
dogs barking tiredly even above the
clatter in her engine, and she offered
me a lift into town. I accepted, closed
my eyes and dug my fingers into the
cushions. I deduced from the absence of
sickening thuds as we screeched along
that so far we hadn’t run over anyone.
However, when the lady remarked
“Fools! Don’t they think I’ve ever
driven a car before?” I opened my eyes
and forced myself to look. The “fools”
were two telephone-repair men scurrying
up a pole to attend to their wires.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: One day from port, a
full gale roared up unheralded from the
Antarctic ice and caught the 60ft. ketch
Rachel Boyne on her run with a load of
fish from Port Davey for the Hobart
market. Forced into such poor shelter
as was available from a kelp-fringed
headland, she plunged at her anchors,
chains parcelled to prevent them from
sawing the hawse bollards, and her
crew knowing well that with a few points
of wind-shift to the eastward she would
smash like an eggshell under the 100 ft.
granite cliffs. Next morning a chain
parted, and they ran out their last anchor
on a coir, with a messenger to ease the
strain and keep the flukes from lifting.
As they changed their soaking clothes
below Skipper Teddy Boyne put on his
shoregoing suit, complete with collar and
tie. His three brothers did the same. The
newly-shipped youngster grinned —at least
until Skipper Teddy enlightened him.
“Alwuz oughter dress proper, kid,” he
said. “ ’Spose the lines go or the wind
shifts an’ it’s ’ats on the water after all?
Well, if y’re picked up ’fore the crays
get hold of y’ you’d like t’ look y’r best
for layin’ out, wouldn’t y’? An’ if y’ do
get up them cliffs a decent soot of clothes
always makes a good impression if a
bloke ’as to ask them cockies for a bit
of tucker.” The ground gear held, but
never have I forgotten that lesson in
correct sartorial deportment under all
conditions.
* * * •
“R. 8.”; The N.G. boong enjoys
watching a game of cricket almost as
much as he enjoys playing it. A crowd
of them inevitably get around the boun-
dary at our Sunday games and provide
as much entertainment for the players
as the players obviously do for them. Bill,
our big hitter, had sent one <to the fence,
and the nearest fieldsman called out to
one bunch “One boy catchim that feller
ball!” “Orright, marster, I catchim!”
yelled one. He sighted the still rapidly
moving ball, and with bare foot gave it
a full-blooded boot which sent it half
way back to the wicket. That kick would
have broken any white man’s toes, but
the natives were puzzled by the five-
minute hold-up caused first by amaze-
ment and then by mirth.
“Frank Mauri”: Siam is the home of
the climbing perch, but there is another
amphibious fish that p.-0.-w. at “first
thought dropped from the clouds. When
the first rains came after the dry season,
bucketfuls of fish, some a foot long, were
picked up from the steaming earth.
The lateral fins were fused to form a pair
of stout hooks which enabled the fish to
pull itself along the ground. The gill-
slits were underneath, not on the sides
as in most fish, so that they could be
pressed to the wet ground to continue
breathing. There were two feelers and
an eel-like tail. During the dry season
this fish burrows in the mud of the paddy-
fields, emerging at the first of the rains
and heading for the nearest stream —
overland. The final stage of its existence
is passed in the rivers, where it grows to
a length of several feet.
* * * *
“Nagheer”; This summer has broken
all North Queensland records for queer
weather antics. With the coastal country
bone-dry from Cairns to Townsville,
Boulia, deservedly reputed as the most
sun-parched town in the State’s arid far-
west, has had to use boats to attend its
annual race meeting; The function had
already been postponed on account of
rain on December 26. Four days later
the Burke River came down its two
channels simultaneously, one, 150 yards
wide, remaining negotiable by high trucks,
but its 30yd. mate requiring the use of
the Shire Council’s rowboat to cross dry-
footed. The Oldest Inhabitant claims
that it is the first time in history that
such a thing has happened in the place
where Aboliars have so often alleged that
frogs never get a chance to learn to swim
and ten-year-old kids hide under beds
when they see their first drops of rain*
THE LITTLE BURNS OE
SCOTLAND.
The Darling and Macquarie,
The Lachlan and Paroo,
The Warrego and Irrara
And all the creeks I knew
Sweep on with silent flow,
Round lone red sandhills swinging,
Their boon to burnt plains bringing—
They have no time for singing;
But the little burns of Scotland
Run lilting as they go.
No starved sheep droop beside them,
Those merry mountain bums
That twinkle through the heather
With a hundred twists and turns;
Now loud, now laughing low,
Now telling us the wonder
Of the rocks they part asunder
And the banks they hurry under;
The little burns of Scotland
Run lilting as they go.
No lean steers stagger weakly
Beside those silver streams,
No skeletons surround them
To haunt a stockman’s dreams;
No dried-up pools they know,
But down from mountain passes
They mirror as in glasses
The tall unwithered grasses—
Those little burns of Scotland,
All singing as they go.
SCOTLAND.
Will H. Ogilvie.


“Bull-ant Bill”; “ ’Ere’s somethin’
wot’ll interest y’, Bill,” said Old Joe when
I dropped in to see him today. “Thought
I’d lorst it, but it’d got be’ind the linin’
in me old port an’ I only come acrost
it today.” He held up a two-inch square
of ancient galvanised iron with a round
hole punched through its centre. “Bit
of the old Glenrowan pub wall, an’ Ned
Kelly ’imself it was put that there bullet-
’ole through it.” “How did you get hold
of it?” I inquired. “Bought it orf a
bloke down in Vic. when I was a young
cove. Less’n a year after Ned was ’ung.
’Arf a dollar it cost me, an’ I wouldn’t
part with it f’r a fiver.” I didn’t hurt
the dear old boy’s feelings by smiling,
but a score of years after that dramatic
episode in Victorian history a flourishing
trade in similar relics still existed in the
“Keep your head still — l’m going to loop the loop this time
Kelly Country for the despoilment of
romantically-minded visitors. Mine cost
a bob, so the price had evidently gone
down since Joe’s day.
♦ » * *
“1.D.”: The remarks of “Ex-Mister”
(B. 8/1 / ’47) regarding the savage habits
of the albatross recall the experience of a
member of the crew of an Australian
corvette. Crossing the Indian Ocean on
the way home from Colombo, he was
washed over the side in heavy weather.
The alarm was sounded, and the ship
turned about, but half an hour’s intensive
search revealed no sign of the seaman.
Then the masthead lookout reported that
two albatrosses which had been follow-
ing the ship were swooping and diving at
something a mile away bn the port side.
Investigation proved that the object of
their attack was the missing sailor. In a
bad way when rescued, he still bears
scars from neck to hip, but no grudge.
In fact, he is one mariner who is con-
vinced that albatrosses bring good luck.
* * * »
“Zake”: Timber contractors whose
consciences are on the elastic side have
tried all sorts of dodges to get defective
timber past Government inspectors. One
of their lurks was to cut big timber of
unsound heart, especially that for girder
work, plug the ends with the sound heart
of a small tree and then saw off an inch
or two of the ends. It would deceive
many a man —but not an inspector I
knew. His infallible method of detec-
tion was to hang his watch at one end
of the log, directly over the heart, and
then go to the other end and listen care-
fully. Only if the ticking of the watch
could be heard would he pronounce the
log a solid one. No tick meant a “pipe”
in the centre.
age ♦ * *
“Naturala”: A Service Department
par. (B. 1/1 / ’47) which describes cock-
roaches as being of two kinds, American,
reddish brown, and German, dark yellow
to dark brown, has me puzzled. What
about the bad old Aussie cockroach, jet
black? I call it Aussie, though it may be
an importation ; if so, then it has wonder-
fully acclimatised itself. For, besides
being found in dwellings where tucker
is plentiful it also inhabits the bush, being
found under loose bark miles from any
habitation. Another favorite habitat is
the vicinity of a beehive; its taste for
Apis’s products being epicurean, it takes
them all, even the propolis with which
the bee cements up gaps in its hive. The
’roach is wonderfully intelligent, particu-
larly in “safety first.” As a sharer of
human dwellings, although obnoxious
owing to its tendency to partake of the
owner’s food, it has one outstanding
virtue—its partiality to bed-bugs. Where
cockroaches are plentiful bed-bugs are
seldom found.
♦ * * *
“Sou’-west”: The cause of that
peculiar occurrence at the junction of the
Horton River with Fallal Creek (B.
1/1 / ’47) is a gas—sulphuretted hydrogen.
Similar phenomena are to be seen on a
smaller scale at the mouth of any river
with a moving sand-bar. Seaweed buried
by the shifting sand rots, producing this
gas, which may find vent in slow bubbles
or in a violent effusion. It is fatal to
fish. That hole gouged in the river-bed
had previously been hollowed out, even
deeper. Filled with vegetation carried
down by flood, it slowly accumulated
silt, burying vegetation, which rotted,
generating the gas, which again was held
confined by the accumulated silt. The
second flood, weakening the covering of
silt, permitted the gas to emerge violently,
hence the artesian-spring effect. Much
the same thing happens in the saucer
lakes of Coward Springs, Centralia,
“B. A. Ker”: Is it instinct or pheno-
menal sight that guides a pigeon home?
Some pigeon-fanciers favor the latter
theory, pointing out that a bird is trained
over a course in gradually lengthening
stages before it is expected to make a
very long flight; when the pigeon is re-
leased it circles until a landmark is dis-
cernible —perhaps 40 or 50 miles away—
heads towards it, and picks up other
guides on the way. Others claim that the
birds rely solely on instinct. One proof
offered is that birds have been released
from ships at sea with land far beyond
the range of even a pigeon’s eye ; the
ocean’s ever-changing changelessness
could give no pointers, therefore instinct
alone must be the pilot. I once heard a
pigeon-breeder declare that he had proved
the theory and won a bet by contending
that one of his birds would race him
home if it were released two miles away
on a dark night. Without giving an
opinion on his veracity I favor the latter’s
“It pains me exceedingly to reduce you to the ranks, Mr. Bowie.”
theory, taking into consideration the un-
erring judgment of migrating birds.
Moreover, ridiculous as it may sound, I
believe that a fish has a homing instinct.
Recently I watched a tiny rock-cod that
some boys had caught and placed in a
pool scraped in the sand. Repeatedly as
it swam frantically around its prison the
fish made a frenzied dash at the sand
wall. Although I watched fully a dozen
attempts to escape, never once was a
charge made at a spot except that nearest
the sea.
* . * * *
“Bo”; Jim, an ancient pensioner, had
inhabited his one-roomed shack on Crown
land for about 20 years. He always
spoke of his “job,” which consisted solely
in looking after his two goats. He had
put up his kipsy at one end of a small
clearing which was almost entirely sur-
rounded by hop scrub. One day, Ban-
croft, who paid him his pension at the
post office, dropped in with a fish for the
old boy on his way back from the river.
Instead of the usual rustle of paper as
Jim pored over his week-old prints, Ban-
croft heard sounds of boards being ripped
from their bearings Jim was pulling his
shack down. His visitor gaped, then
asked if Jim was leaving the district.
The old bloke shook his head. “No,”
he replied. “I just thought I’d like a
change—a man might git into a rut
stoppin’ too long in the one place. I’m
puttin’ it up at the other end o’ the clear-
in’ —besides, it’ll be a change of view!”
* ♦ * *
“Atrax”: Last year’s incident in which
an Australian ’roo-shooter himself got
perforated by a wounded one when he
went to finish it off with the butt has
apparently stirred the U.S. animal popu-
lation to emulation. A pet dog pulled
the trigger of a gun which had been
left on a wash-stand while his mistress
had a bath, and got her in the hand. A
shot rabbit reached out from a hunter’s
game-bag and put a charge through his
foot. Electrocuted on a main power-line,
a chimpanzee, escaped from a menagerie,
created a blackout which helped a hold-
up gang to get clear with the best part of
half a million dollars from a Chicago
bank. A freshly-caught salmon sneezed
whilst lying in the back-seat of a car, and,
as the startled driver turned at the strange
sound, bounded into his arms, landing
the car upside down in a drain. But the
champion effort was due to a sparrow.
A boy shot at it; missed it, but hit the
wagon-load of dynamite on which it had
been sitting. The resulting explosion
destroyed the wagon and broke 650 win-
dows.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The theory that bushed
persons tend to walk in circles because
of one leg being slightly shorter than
the other (B. 25/12/’46) may be correct,
but another school holds that it lies en-
tirely with the brain. The human brain
is divided into two lobes of equal power,
but because civilised man tends to do
most of his work with his right hand,
the right side of his brain in those sec-
tions that govern motion and action
remains largely dormant. This ascend-
ancy of the right arm in turn transmits
an ascendancy to the whole right side
of the body, making in right-handed per-
sons the right leg somewhat stronger than
the left. So in the person lost and walk-
ing without visual guidance the fact that
the one leg has a nervous superiority over
the other, and thus strides out more
firmly, is sufficient to tend from walking
in a straight line and ultimately brings
the lost one to the completion of a wide
circle. Further, the fact that uncivilised
man is more ambidextrous, and therefore
exercises both lobes of his brain fairly
evenly, may largely account for the
directional sense possessed by so many
savages.
* * * *
“Dicky Beach”; Something more
venomous than even the tiger-snake or
the death-adder, more dangerous
for sea-bathers to encounter than any
average shark, is an insignificant-looking
jellyfish about two inches across its bell-
shaped body. It is one of the sea-wasps,
Charybdcea in scientific slang, a relative
of the Portuguese man-o’-war, although
it consists of one individual only, whereas
the bluebottle is really a numerous colony
attached to the blue gas-filled float from
whose shape and color its name
derives. Both kill their food by
means of barbed stinging cells on their
tentacles, carrying"a poisonous secretion.
Fortunately, the kind of sea-wasp which
has been known to kill a healthy young
man in less than four minutes by paralys-
ing respiration is found only in Aus-
tralia’s warmer seas, and is either a rare
creature even there or varies greatly in
virulence according to season.
' * * * *
“Edjudina”: “Esk D.’s” fossickers
who invented perpetual motion (B.
18/12/’46) remind me of the Murphy
brothers, who resigned from potato-grow-
ing to pursue the elusive pennyweight.
Taking up the long-abandoned Crescent
G.M. they found not gold but a fine
supply of water —of value to MacDonald,
then busy erecting a cyanide plant for
the retreatment of battery sands on the
Crescent Extended, 1000 yards away.
Game the day when MacDonald de-
clared his plant ready to start. But no
water arrived through the 2in, pipe laid
between the two shows. Striding over to
the Murphys’ shaft, Mac found the 2000-
gallon storage tank that he had provided
filled to overflowing. The Murphys were
frankly puzzled. “But, damn it all! ”
MacDonald snapped, “can’t you see that
you’ve got the rim of your*tank a good
foot lower than the bottom of mine?”
The senior Murphy scratched his head.
“Yair, we did see that, but we reckoned
when we got our tank full the weight of
the water ought easy push it up that foot
or so.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: As “Tummas
McN.” avers (B. 25/12/’46) the usual
charge in an electric stock fence is six-
volts —the initial charge that is. But in-
corporated in the circuit is a vibrator and
coil, a conjunction by means of which
the voltage may be increased almost
ad lib. The initial voltage in most car-
ignition systems is six to eight, but an
Induction coil assisted materially by a
condenser supplies about 30,000 volts to
the spark plugs. So even a six-volt
battery could supply a “high-voltage
fence.” But it wouldn’t be safe for
animals, which are apparently more sus-
ceptible to electric shock than humans.
Forty volts will kill sheep and horses on
a wet day with hide, hoof and ground
all soaked. Most fences run to between
80 and 180 volts.
WHALAN’S MILL.
From Boggy Flat to Dillon’s farm the lazy
river strayed. ~ ,
Gray granite boulders by its banks with clus-
tered rushes xpade
Good cover when a hunter crept on some
secluded pool .
Where wary black ducks came to feed in weedy
waters cool.
From Dillon’s wheatfield at the bend a wider
reach began, .
Through meadowland with clover rich the
halted current ran;
There peering from the jointed reeds on any
sunny day
In rippled circles might be seen a platypus
at play.
The restless river turned again: below a sloping
hill.
Within its grove of willow-trees, stood Charlie
Whalan’s mill.
Old Dillon told his fireside tales of days ere
I was born
When settlers brought on bullock carts their
bags of precious corn. _
Although the wheel had ceased to turn —the
miller long had gone
To spend the evening of his days in drowsy
Oberon —
A glamor lay upon the place, for ever seemed
to brood s
A spirit there of restfulness and gracious
solitude.
Beside the broken fences grew old alders in a
line,
From these a housewife once distilled thick
“elderberry wine.”
A ragged hawthorn flowered yet; moss roses,
here and there
With wild verbena, thyme and musk, drugged
deep the summer air.
When wanton breezes slyly kissed the willows
from a dream
Their drooping branches swayed and swept
above file dark millstream;
By aniseed and slender mint the channel’s edge
was rimmed;
Black water-beetles, to and fro, its idle sur-
face skimmed.
A crested heron hour by hour stood mooding
in the shade
While gay kingfishers, flaunting by, their blue
and gold displayed.
No sound discordant broke the peace of that
unoccupied
First holding of a pioneer along the riverside.
From silver morn to golden noon, from noon
to evenfall
While seasons came and seasons went a charm
was on it all;
But when upon her magic broom the moon
rode o’er the hill
That sky-witch weaved a deeper spell, night-
long round Whalan’s Mill.
VICTORIA.
E. J. Brady.


R.M.L. & F.leads!
It leads in its standards of appraisal, grading, lotting and
auctioneering—and, as a result, it leads in the securing of
the maximum price per lb. for every item offered.
The Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy, Ltd.
leads also in the complete service it provides its clients—
service such as only a company with its wide facilities
can provide.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
land &
Inc. in England 186 S
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay
A3.22.7t.
m
m
m
Whatever your wafer-eonveying problems
may be
I “MAXIMUM” Portable
Piping has the Answer!
Distances up to one mile long and pressures up to 1001 b. per square
inch—that’s the scope of “MAXIMUM” piping.
“MAXIMUM” connecting pipes with the famous Flexible Coupling
are the solution of all your water-conveying problems because:
A. They are portable. B. Can be laid by anyone. C. Are available
in standard lengths and bores which, together with the famous
“MAXIMUM” Flexible Coupling, enable you to build your system
to suit yourself.
Note; “Maximuni” piping will fit all usual irrigation equipment; quotations
and advice with pleasure.
Agents: SMITH & GLUYAS Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane. J 1456.
PASCOE & CO., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. M 7127.
WELLING & CROSSLEY Pty., Ltd., 148-149 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. MX4889.
ĥ
MANUFAC-
TURERS;
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO„
39-41 DIXON STREET,
SYDNEY. MA 7858.
80/463
vT
J
DESTROY THESE
with
(Kegd.)
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Cettain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
■..Cxi-®*
- Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
i-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
- All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 P Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS!"
Avoiding Star Tots.
“Jumbuck”: During the war years,
when the appraisement scheme operated,
one-bale lots were given as much atten-
tion by valuers as were 100-bale lots, but
with the return to selling by public
auction the majority of buyers interest
themselves in the big lots and many don’t
even value star lots.
It has been proved that, by virtue of
greater competition, wool offered at the
“big” sale-room realises more than wool
of the same value offered as a “star” lot.
This has also been proved in the case of
interlotted or bulk-classed wools offered
as big lots. Obviously the bigger the line
the greater the competition and, all things
being equal, the higher the price.
In a few cases it might pay to pick the
eyes out of a clip and make them into
a star lot, but it will be found more
profitable to avoid star lots as much as
possible. The success of classing depends
on each line being as even as circum-
stances will permit, and it is always wiser
to keep a doubtful fleece down a grade
than to “force” it into a line better than
itself. Attempting to “force” a few
fleeces in order to get a top line that
doesn’t really exist won’t fool buyers, and
mostly it will be more payable to put
the few extra good fleeces in with the
next best and make a big lot. It’s the
average price per pound that makes up
the wool cheque, not the fancy price
obtained for a two- or three-bale lot.
Culling Ewes.
‘Sheepo”: Regular, not periodical,
culling of ewes in every flock, big or
small, is essential, regardless of breed.
Culling for age only is not sufficient;
in many instances ag§d or broken-mouth
ewes are better than sbme of the younger
ewes retained as breeders. Uniformity
should be the axiom. No nondescript
type of ewe should be retained.
There is a danger that present high
prices will lead to forgetfulness of the
necessity to cull; to a tendency to keep
anything and everything that will breed
a lamb. Such a procedure must react
adversely whether wool prices are high
or low.
The selection of well-bred rams suitable
to local conditions and the necessity of
cullflig the breeders regularly must always
remain the highest essential features
associated with the production of wool.
Footrot.
“Mr.”: In January or February ex-
amine the sheep and isolate those show-
ing infection. Put the healthy through
a footbath of 5 p.c. formalin or 10 p.c.
bluestone as a safeguard. If the weather
is wet or summer pastures green leave old
paddocks unstocked from two to four
weeks before clean sheep are put back.
G. Nicol, B.V.Sc., in the Victorian
“Journal of Agriculture,” considers that
if a high proportion of a flock on irri-
gated pasture is affected it is wise to sell
the whole flock, leave the pasture un-
stocked for three or four weeks, then re-
stock with clean sheep. An alternative
would be to pare thoroughly the feet of
affected sheep and treat with formalin
every two or three days, the clean sheep
going through a footbath of 2-5 p.c.
formalin. As an added precaution the
sheep should be re-examined and put
through a 2-5 p.c. formalin or 10 p.c.
bluestone bath every two or three days
for about three weeks. Above all, be
careful of new infection from new stock.
Dairy and Beef Cattle.
“Esk”: Economically, three distinct
types have their uses, for dairy, beef and
“It musta bin rough on them poor cows not bein' able to get to work
'cause of the transport strike."
dual-purpose. In their order they are
best suited to rich pasture-growing dis-
tricts, poor- to medium-class grazing land
and large farms of medium pasturage.
Scrubbers should be eliminated.
Better profits may be had otherwise
from farming land than by keeping beef
cattle for their annual crop of calves
and raising these to marketable age and
condition. Typical beef country is found
in unimproved, hilly or other land un-
suited to agriculture. Good stock are
essential, and buyers are always inclined
to pay more for a good, even line of
stores. Fattening paddocks near a
market centre are a big advantage.
Dairy cattle are bred on milk-produc-
ing lines, and good herds mean bigger
profits where bulk crops of clovers or
lucerne may be grown. There is a draw-
back in the offspring being unsuitable for
the beef market, but dairymen can’t afford
to sacrifice milk production for dual-
purpose breeds. Milkers first; then, if
grazing is available apart from the main
pastures, the less-profitable of the herd
and those not required for breeding
dairy stock may be mated with Hereford
or other good beef bulls.
Good quality is important in the sire,
for the offspring will conform reason-
ably close to his type.
Dual-purpose cattle are useful on the
bigger farms where pastures do not reach
the high standards of ideal dairying land.
Special types bred for beef-and-milk pro-
duction are not to be confused with
scrubbers. The point is to choose the best
type of cattle for the particular purpose,
introduce good stock and breed up and
maintain on sound lines.
Impaction in Cattle.
“Johnny”: During drought more cattle
die from impaction than actual starvation.
The rumen or paunch becomes so tightly
packed with food that the walls ark un-
able to contract, digestive movements
cease, chewing of the cud stops and the
whole digestive system is thrown out of
action. In good seasons the sappy nature
of the grass provides sufficient lubrication
to facilitate easy digestion and there is no
undue accumulation of food in the
rumen.
As a rule there are symptoms of
impaction. The animal appears to be
in pain, lying down and rising frequently,
and often, when lying down, may try to
kick its stomach or turn its head toward
its flank. Usually the beast is dull and
its breathing distressed.
Treatment that may be given dairy
cattle is often impracticable for beef
cattle out on the run. Whenever possible
encourage the animal to drink plenty of
water (even if common salt has to be
rubbed into the mouth). Molasses and
water (50-50) is a good laxative and
should be given in quantity. Massage
of the rumen twice a day helps. This is
best done by slowly but strongly thrusting
the clenched fist into the abdominal wall
of the animal. When this treatment is
impossible a lick containing a good per-
centage of salt is very helpful in pre-
venting the ailment, but it can hardly be
claimed as a cure.
Pasture Establishment.
“Myrrhee”; The best time for sowing
in Victoria is usually the March-April-
May period, but last year droughty
autumn conditions forced farmers to sub-
stitute a spring sowing rather than wait
until this year. Spring establishment is
practicable in the higher rainfall areas
where seeding is done in late August or
September. In country with ah average
rainfall of 25in. a mixture of certified
perennial rye grass 101 b. and mid-season
clover 21b per acre can be used to
advantage.
Sow under cover of a cereal crop or
on stubble ground after a crop of wheat
or oats has beeh harvested. In better
rainfall country cocksfoot and white
clover may be included in the permanent
mixture, but these two species need
summer rain, and are best adapted for
districts where rainfall is well distributed.
Under such conditions a suitable mixture
would be cert. per. rye 101 b., Vic, or cert.
N.Z. cocksfoot 51b., sub. clover 21b., N.Z.
white clover 11b. per acre. That mixture
will be improved by including Italian rye
grass 51b. and N.Z. per. red clover 21b.
and/on Alsike clover lib. per acre. These
make quick early growth, and provide
good feed while the more permanent
elements are becoming stabilised. Don’t
allow Italian rye or cereal cover crops
to grow so tall as to overshadow the
others. If this threatens give them a
rapid grazing or an early mowing.
Erosion Control.
“Atlanta”: On their farm near King-
aroy (Q.) H. and A. Royle are controlling
sheet erosion by contour ploughing and
the building of broad-based terraces.
The first experiment was made 10 years
ago when storm erosion damaged a 40-
acre paddock so severely that it was
almost useless for cultivation. The small
grader first used proved unsuitable and
was replaced by a four-furrow disk
plough and tractor. Wider banks were
made to prevent washing away in storms.
These banks are designed to carry only
that water which falls on the area be-
tween two banks, so that all water out-
side the contoured area must be carried
away by drains. Banks are set 83ft.
apart and are 24ft. wide from the outer
edge of the water channel to the far base
of the bank itself, but figures vary accord-
ing to the slope of the ground. Contours
were laid out with a dumpy level. Horses
and a small scoop are used for filling in
gullies, clearing inlets and strengthening
weak banks. Filling and levelling of
gullies result in a more even slope of
contour, with subsequent ease of culti-
vation.
On a 31-acre paddock, 148 gallons of
kerosene were used to contour, plough
and construct 34 chains of drain, and
costs were reduced by ploughing and
contouring in one operation. It would
take 62 gallons to plough, or 117 gallons
to contour alone. At Is. 6d. per gallon,
kerosene cost £ll 25.; oil £1 ss. Approxi-
mate cost per acre for ploughing, con-
touring and draining was 135., but this
makes no allowance for depreciation of
implements,;
The Royles advocate contouring be-
fore erosion has begun. They have com-
pleted 70 acres and intend treating the


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump onl
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two poundi
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon.
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel "up and up,” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit. ’
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pilla
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3. -
Vea.ce brought its •
problems. too !
ROBLEMS of production were easier of solution
in days of war than they are today. War brought
an assured supply of materials and labour! War
meant a single buyer—the Nation was No. 1 Priority!
Today, a frenzied demand for Ronaldson-Tippett
equipment comes from every corner of the Com-
monwealth. Labour is scarce in all industries and
thus the supply of raw materials is hampered at
the source.
Ronaldson-Tippett did a great wartime job but
conditions beyond their control now regulate the
delivery of equipment you so urgently need; but
the leeway Is being lessened. The pace of production
is increasing. Lodge your order at once. It may be
filled in less time than you think!
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.,
Frazer House. 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
Are
driving with
*i*
the road?
m
C6-47
Remember
four-wheel brakes
depend upon four
tyres that grip.
GOODYEAR v
tyres are
available now
— everywhere.
Are you trying to “make
do” for just a few more
months on tyres that have
given you years of war-time
service . . . Then the worry
of a skid, or blow-out, is al-
ways with you.
Tired tyres are dangerous.
So, after all these years, give
yourself back the enjoyment
of worry-free driving. Get
your car back onto the safety
of Goodyear tyres — now
available everywhere.
I? 3tR
MS 200% natural rubber again in Goodyear tyres
Ws
good/year
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
full 320 acres —grass lands included as
time allows. The original 40 acres con-
toured had deteriorated considerably alter
SO years’ continuous cropping, but under
treatment fertility continues to improve.
Rotational cropping and the ploughing
of corn stalks and stubble back into the
ground instead of burning have prevented
wash and built soil fertility.
“Sarina”; The most destructive erosion
of creek banks and adjacent cultivations
is the effect not of floodwaters tearing
down the creeks and scouring away the
banks but of stormwater pouring off cul-
tivations and falling down steep banks
into the creeks. This causes terrific
gullying, which strikes deeper into the
cultivations with every storm and gradu-
ally cuts fields into sections. Steep bank
formation along creeks is usually due
to the banks being carried away in pieces
by floodwaters because of inadequate pro-
tection by trees.
Once steep banks have been formed
and gullying has commenced in earnest,
the only curative measure possible is to
dig drains to convey as much storm-
water as possible to the creek at another
point where the bank slopes gently down
to the water’s edge. There the drainage
water will pour into the creek without
eating away the bank soil.
If, however, the stormwater cannot be
diverted from joining the creek down a
sheer cliff it may well be the best thing
to write that land off for cultivation and
grow grasses on it for grazing. Particu-
larly would this procedure be advisable
in districts of high rainfall.
Tobacco Planting in N.Q.
“Bennie”: The first ploughing should
be early in winter and the ground allowed
to lie fallow until the summer. It is
advisable to plough deep, but on no
account should the subsoil be brought
to the top during the first ploughing. Be-
fore planting the ground should be
ploughed again to a depth of not more
than six inches, and brought to a very
fine tilth by harrowing.
If the slope of the land has a ten-
dency to let the soil wash away during the
heavy rains, the utmost consideration
must be given to the direction of the
slope of the rows in which tobacco is to
be planted. Should rows be made in
the same direction as the fall of the land,
scouring by excessive water along the
furrows will probably result in future
serious damage. Therefore rows should
follow the contour of the land, the fall
along the rows not greater than six inches
in 100 feet.
When direction of rows has been com-
pleted, drills should be opened up at regu-
lar intervals, and fertiliser applied, either
by distributor or by hand. This should
be done about nine days before planting.
Fertiliser should be well incorporated in
the soil. Following this the soil should be
hilled over the fertiliser wijth a disk cul-
tivator or by making a furrow on each
side with a plough.
Finally the tops of the hills should be
slightly flattened off with a log or such-
like to consolidate the top soil before
planting.
Haymaking.
“Atlanta”: On his 200-acre Faraway
property, near' Harrisville (Q.), A. G. V.
Hall has overcome drought and man-
power shortage. Of the 156 acres irri-
gated for cultivation 65 are under lucerne.
Last September Hall bought the first Sun-
shine pick-up hay-baler to arrive in
Queensland, and this machine has proved
so successful as to enable an additional
40 acres to be sown with lucerne.
After cqtting, the lucerne is swept into
rows with a side-delivery hay-rake. Ex-
perience has shown that hay which has
been raked opens up a much better color,
for as it lies in rows only outside stalks
are bleached, whereas the whole cutting
of unraked hay is exposed to the sun,
with subsequent loss of color throughout.
The baler is operated by two men;
one to drive the tractor and the other to
wire the bales. As the baler moves down
the rows almost every straw is swept from
the ground. Depending upon the crop,
this machine is capable of handling up
to five tons of hay or 150 bales per hour.
Costs: baler, £722 ; tractor, £450 ; side
delivery rake, £B5. Estimated cost of pre-
paring ground with two ploughings, two
diskings and two harrowings, £3 per acre;
seed, 325. 6d. per acre; watering, 255. if
no water rates are payable. Irrigation
should produce five crops a year, and
lucerne stands last from six to eight
years. At present the hay is worth £l2
per ton.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: Ghurka-White Fife, a new
wheat cross developed at Longerenong
(Vic.), has come through impressive trials
and will be distributed for 1947 sowing.
The variety combines the high-milling
quality of the Canadian White Fife with
the prolificacy and sturdiness of the Aus-
tralian Ghurka, and is expected to answer
Vic. millers’ demands for a better milling
plant. /
“Atlanta”: At an approximate cost of
£25 J. Batts, of Kilkivan (Q.), has con-
structed a 4000 gal. water-tank ideal for
cattle. The 7in.-thick base is seated on
6in. of screened sand, reinforced with a
quantity of junk iron. The 2ft. Sin. walls
are Sin. thick at the bottom, tapering to
7in. at the top, and are reinforced with
nine lines galvanised barbwire and three
lines of fin. steel. In addition, a row of
2ft. iron bars and rods stands upright in
the base two feet apart, and extends almost
to the top of the walls. Diameter of the
tank is 19ft. Rolled drum-iron purchased
in Sydney at 3s. per sheet was bolted to-
gether to form a mould. An overflow
leads from a T-pipe, well below the top of
the water.
“W. Court”: New dairyfarmers should
get acquainted with the different weeds on
their properties to save themselves a’lot
of dead stock. Variegated thistle,
common in both N.S.W. and Queensland,
is a great poisoner of both horses and
cattle. It has prickly leaves with white
markings and prickly purplish flowers.
Cottonweed is a straggly plant with
narrow leaves and red flowers which give
way to seed pods packed with woolly
material. Poison peach is a small tree
with peach-like foliage that grows in
scrub along the banks of creeks. Better to
cut these particularly deadly growths
down on sight rather than try to cure the
sickness they will cause amongst stock
during the first dry spell.
“Homo”: Poddy calves will repay in
beef every pint of fresh milk that can
be spared for them. For the first few
wefeks every feed should be of fresh milk,
and when feeding on gruels, whey, skim
milk, etc., later, add a little fresh milk
whenever available. The vitamins it con-
tains are necessary for development and
help to build resistance to disease.
“Atlanta”: Soak new paint-brushes in
cold water for at least 24 hours before
using, or bristles will be dry and brittle
and are likely to fall out and spoil finished
paint-work. After use, clean brushes
with turpentine and warm soapy water,
rubbing bristles between the fingers until
a p p a j n t is removed. Rinse in cold water,
wring out like a mop and hang up t 0 dry .
„ . ,
Gzob : Fowls suffering from internal
troubles should be given Epsom salts in
liquid form by way of a small syringe;
spoons are dangerous. Pass the nozzle
of the syringe beyond the windpipe be-
fore letting the liquid free.


TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY *KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
A-
\
WS?:SS
f '»>yp<
: ,:
'-iff ?>* J
ssss
I
'<■
A
ws&m-
&.M
m
-
fig "I I <
• «
><-*4-1
'v VA, '
>• •
- ' * ; -
THE OWL IS PROVERBIALLY A WISE BIRD, SO BE SURE
YOU FOLLOW HIS EXAMPLE! TILLEY LAMPS ARE
SO SUCCESSFUL THAT COPIES OF THEM ARE BEING
MARKETED. TILLEY LAMPS ARE MADE ONLY IN ENGLAND
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES: '
MELBOURNE: <T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd,, 123-125 William Street, Melbourne. C.l.
would have been most annoyed if he heard
that his skipper had been aboard without
looking in at the engineroom. He was
dead now, beyond caring for such things,
but still the obligation remained.
The descent was difficult for an old
man striving to keep the rust and grime
from his only suit. You can’t afford
new suits when you live on a pension.
Rust and grime! Just as well poor
old Mac wasn’t here to see it; he’d
always been so proud of his gleaming
handrails, his polished brasswork and the
spotless white paint. Even the lagging
on the steam pipes now hanging in
tattered, dirty shreds and lying in lumps
on the rusted floor plates—had always
been so white,
“God!” The old map shook his head
sadly. “It would have broken his heart
to see this.”
Strange that the dirt and desolation of
this abandoned engineroom should affect
him even more than the neglect and decay
of his own department. But Mac had
always been so fiercely aggressive about
the shining efficiency of his engines,
Never would admit that their voracious
appetite was the main reason for the
owner’s decision to lay the Torsdale up
when she had years of good work left
in her. Fairly ate coal, those damned
engines did. And old Mac, for all that
he was a Glasgow man, was no thrifty
Scot. Had a mania for speed and was
always trying to break records.
Oh well, the old Torsdale had certainly
established a name for fast passages,
She had accommodation for only twelve
passengers, but she was always booked
right out.
Slowly and carefully the old man re-
climbed the steel ladders. Out of breath
as he was, he saw as soon as he stepped
out on deck that he had dallied too long
down below. The tide had turned. His
seaman’s eye noted that immediately. It
was flowing swiftly outwards, slipping
along the Torsdale’s barnacle-encrusted
plates, plastering the weed growth down
like lank hair oiled and brushed care-
fully into place. The sou’easter too, had
sprung up, kicking up wavelets that
slapped against the old ship’s rusted side,
Impossible to get back now. Pulling
across to that strip of sand would be
hard work for a young, vigorous man.
But what did it matter? He could wait
until slack water or even until high water
that evening when the breeze would have
dropped again. The dinghy-owner would
never miss his dinghy, and as for himself
—well, he was only an old man with no
one to worry over his comings and goings,
an old man to whom time no longer
meant anything.
Pleasant to spend the day here? quietly
dreaming, reviving old memories, on this
important occasion. Fifty years! Just
fifty years today since he’d brought the
Torsdale through Sydney Heads on her
maiden voyage out from England. Quite
a sensation she’d caused the newest,
fastest, smartest ship on the coast. Fifty
years! Lord, how time flies! It seemed
only a few years ago. And he had com-
manded her right up to the time the
owners had decided to lay her up. Had
even brought her up here to these very
moorings! A sad, bitter day that, after
all those years of splendid service. They’d
grown old together, he and his ship,
without either one realising it.
“Old Connors and his Torsdale,” they
used to say on the coast. “They’ll end
their days together, those two.”
But they’d been wrong. He had his
ship had been parted for years now, each
rotting away in idleness. “Men and
ships rot in polt.” How true it was. The
old Torsdale had certainly suffered. And
he—well, he hadn’t fared so well himself,
A bad heart, the doctors said. Nonsense !
His heart was all right and he’d have been
all right if he’d only had something to do.
Something to do! He’d have a good
look around now that he had the whole
day to himself. He wandered along to
the little saloon. A damned shame to
see it stripped bare where once there
had been red carpets on the decks and
white tablecloths on polished tables. Over
there against that bulkhead the marks
still showed where his captain’s
table had stood. Passengers had
quarrelled with the steward over the
honor of sitting there. Queer people,
passengers. Funny how they all wanted
to sit next to the captain. But Christy
had known how to handle them tact-
fully. A good steward, Christy. Must
have a look at his pantry again.
From the steward’s pantry to the galley
—the old man was off on a tour of in-
spection now, slipping more and more
into the past and seeing things, not as
they were today but as they’d been when
his ship was at sea, throbbing with life
and energy. Passenger accommodation,
seamen’s quarters, firemen’s quarters,
messrooms, he did them all, recalling
incidents and long-forgotten faces.
| T was late afternoon when he returned
* to the bridge. The flood tide was
again running and the Torsdale had
swung with her head to the open sea.
Because his day of climbing up and
down ladders had tired him the old man
looked around for a place to sit. An old
locker stood against the chartroom. The
boys, in one of their games, had dragged
it there, to the very place he’d so often
had his deck-chair rigged when he was
spending a night on the bridge. Thank-
fully he seated himself and leaned back
against the bulkhead. Grand to be rest-
ing here where he could watch the ship’s
head swinging gently as the incoming
tide pressed along her sides. Swinging
just as if the helmsman was letting his
mind wander from his job. Always was
a sweet steering ship, the old girl. Too
sweet. The helmsmen were apt to doze
in the night watches.
“Steady' there! Watch your steering! ”
The white head had jerked up abruptly.
“Don’t let her swing off to port like
that.”
Slowly, obediently, the bows swung
back to starb’d and the old man relaxed
once more. Strange how short of breath
he was this evening.
Too much climbing, probably. And
that pounding of his heart. Was it his
heart? No, of course not. A man’s
heart couldn’t pound at that terrific pace.
It was the thumping of the engines. By
jove, they were thumping! Old Mac
was sending her along tonight. Must be
doing well over nine knots by the feel
of her. There’d be another complaint
about coal consumption from the owners
when they berthed.
The white old head lifted for a moment
and a voice, tired, feeble and barely
audible above the sighing of the breeze,
said:
“I’m turning in for a while, Mr. Hig-
gins. Call me at once if she’s not making
her course or if you are in any doubt.”
The sun slid down behind the distant
mangroves, its last rays glinting on the
wings of the gulls returning to their
V
resting place. Down and down sank the
white head. Lower and lower came the
wheeling gulls till one, bolder than his
fellows, settled warily on the rail, head
cocked inquiringly, wings half-lifted
from snowy sides, ready for instant flight.
But, except that
the evening
breeze ruffled the
white hair just as
i t ruffled the
feathers of the
watchiqg gull,
the figure on the
locker did not
stir. Reassured,
the gull lowered
its wings and sent
a shrill confident call echoing round
the old ship. Gull after gull settled
down, jostling, bickering, quarrelling
harshly and muttering till they once more
lined the rails.
THE morning mists were again lying
low along the river when the tug
bumped lightly alongside and two deck-
hands scrambled aboard.
“Run that line aft,” the young tug-
master called. “I’ll tow from alongside.
Joe, nip up for’ard with a hammer and
see if you can knock the shackle out of
that chain.”
He saw his lines made fast and sprang
aboard the hulk. Because he wished to
see if the old steering-gear was too rusted
to be of any assistance to his tow he ran
quickly up the bridge ladder. The first
thing that caught his eye was the dinghy
made fast alongside. And then, stepping
arqung the comer of the chartroom, he
saw the old man.
“Hey, old-timer,” he called. “Wake
up.” But even when he shook the frail
shoulder roughly the figure on the locker
did not stir.
“Joe!” The tugmaster’s shout was
urgent, almost fearful. “Come up here!
Quick.”
“Dead as mutton,” Joe pronounced a
few minutes later. In five years of war
he had seen quite a lot of death. “Wonder
what ’appened to ’im. What would an
old bloke like ’im be doin’ out ’ere aboard
this- ’ere old wreck?”
“Search me!” The tugmaster pushed
his hat back and scratched his head.
“Anyhow he’ll have to stay where he is
till we tow her down to Morgan’s. We’ve
got to be there before high water. They
start breaking her up this morning. You’ll
have to nip ashore and ring the police
as soon as we hand her over. It’ll be
their job to find out what happened.”
He walked over and applied his
strength to the wheel.
“Useless,” he announced. “Well have
to manage without it.”
With an air of bravado, to hide the
feeling of awe that comes to all of us
when we meet death for the first time, he
turned to the figure on the locker and
raised his hat in mock salute.
“Well, old man,” he said. “Well leave
you in command up here. You’ll have
the pleasure of being on the bridge for
the old Torsdale’s last voyage.”
Christmas Tree.
The strength of the pine was itself an
expression of youth ;
Transplanted, it grew from the floor of
the room to the roof.
And it balanced a silvery star on the tip
of its nose
As it stood in its perfect erectness, sus-
taining a pose
That was jewelled with tinsel and glitter.
The pine was aware
It had reached a fulfilment in carefully
standing there,
With the bulbs and mysterious presents
tied up in its hair :
The fulfilment of joy for the young in its
festival clothes.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


ħ
to
se 1
Vts
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD.
Established 18i8.
h
I**
m
IW
m
FROM ALL
booksellers
Box 4088 G.P.O., Sydney.
ORDER
IN
WHITE
PIT
A beautiful girl—a lonely night—a man—
a maniac—a murder . . . follow the trail of
blood through the action-packed pages of
this hair-raising mystery thriller. Limited
Australian edition of this popular crime story,
published in London.
THE SHAKESPEARE HEAD *
SMOKE-OH!
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“There was once a manufacturer of golf
balls who ceased production because he could
not make a ball which had that encouraging
sound.” — Castlemaine “Mail” (Vic.).
The chirping of a birdie or the scream
of an eagle?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A gold-digger might be described as a
human gimme pig.”— The Doctor Who Tells.
And she’s never far away from a
sucker.
4. 4* 4* 4*
Domesticated help required, very light
position.”— “S.M.H.”
A little pet will do nicely.
4* 4- 4* 4*
Strayed from yard small silver, Jersey cow,
M in ear.” — Suburban paper.
Daisy evidently took her fare.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Minx scarf, 12 skins, feet* and tails, £40.”
— “S.M.H.”
This Minx is certainly hidebound.
“If a girl loves a man, should she go out
with him if he refuses to shave regularly?”
—Sydney “Telegraph.”
Not if she doesn’t like coming face to
face with him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Boils lead to divorce.”— Sydney “Sun.”
Usually it’s a gathering of the wife’s
relations that brings things to a head.
4 1 4 1 4 1 4*
Experienced writers know the end of their
manuscript before they type the first word.”
—Literary magazine.
That’s why they include return postage.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When a healthy man stays in bed for six
weeks his heart shrinks 11 per cent, in size.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
And his income even more.
“Paris milliners design sensible new spring
hats.” — Fashion note.
Only the prices remain ridiculous.
•i* *i* *i*
Many a woman looks 40 at 30 through
worrying over whether she’ll look 40
when 50.
4* 4* 4*
“Prominent Melbourne estate agent is cham-
pion heel-and-toe artist.” — Sporting note.
He has set new figures for the five-
minutes walk from the station.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“The male and female fish of several species
are known to kiss and pet each other.”
— “World’s News."
Except whfen there are old crabs about.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“American sends gift of nylons to Stalin.”
• —News item.
Should convince Joe that, even if Capi-
talism is on its last legs, at least they’re
presentable.
“Someone said a long time ago that marriages
were made in heaven.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
But only under licence.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Britain’s children will in future learn the
facts of life. A Board of Education pamphlet
decrees that the gooseberry bush, the stork and
doctor’s bag may now be finally discarded.”
— “Sun.”
The stork, in fact, won’t have a leg to
stand on.
The Sensitive Sold.
“American scientists say that oysters frozen
intp a state of suspended animation must not
be roughly handled or they will be broken
up internally and die.” — “Time.”
Though gourmets for the bivalves seem
To have a fairly high esteem,
Not one of them has so far learned
If his affection was returned;
And this perhaps is why they live
A life so undemonstrative —
As well as silent, so we’re told.
The oyster nowadays is cold.
And yet the creature may conceal
A spirit tender and genteel
Beneath its rough exterior
And taciturn demeanor, for
A Lhoughtless jar, a sudden start._
It seems, will break the oyster’s hearty
P. M. LUSK.
Reassurance.
Oh, dry those lovely orbs of blue!
My darling Nancy, weep not so I
I swear I’m not deceiving you
And falsely going out with Flo!
I wouldn’t play that lying part —
I’ve given you my plighted troth,
So you alone will rule my heart!
Fact is, I can’t afford you both !
T. W. NATHAN.
Getaway.
“A Gloucestershire man who paid £2OOO for
a car found £lOOO worth of jewellery concealed
in the engine.”— “Sunday Telegraph.”
“To the frontier!” roared the Baron
as he hurled his bag into the back seat
and fell in beside me. The bag blinked
as the Rolls leaped to the surge of her
80 horses.
“What’s in there?” I asked.
“The Vulgarian Crown jewels,” the
Baron replied smugly. “I told them I was
taking them to be deloused. There ought
to be a cool million in this for us.” He
took the bag into his lap and began re-
moving the jewels from their settings.
“If we can get past the frontier,” I
said. .
“Ah. You wait,” said the Baron, with
a wink that shattered the rear-vision
mirror.
The guard peered suspiciously into the
car.
“There’s a cool hundred thousand for
you in this,” said the Baron. He gestured
significantly towards the frontier and
started the engine. Some portions of
what you might call minced gold clattered
down the exhaust and fell to the road.
“Soh! ” said the guard significantly and
opened the toolbox. “Vots-a dees?” he
enquired.
“That is a tyre-lever,” said the Baron
with dignity. “It so happens that the
Baroness had no further use for it as a
tiara. In our family nothing is wasted,”
he added simply.
“You are contrabandista,” the guard
stated. “You kom wis me.”
The Baron reached casually into a side-
pocket of the oar and prodfuced the
“Skipper says thirty-four to the minute now, Joe. He wants to make
landfall before dark.”
family blunderbuss, which, after one mis-
fire, exploded with a heartening roar. A
selection of minor jewellery embedded
itself in the guard’s anatomy. As the rest
of the guards rushed forward to begin an
enthusiastic bullet-hunt, we crossed the
frontier unopposed.
“There ought to be a cool thousand in
him,” muttered the Baron reflectively.
PLUM.
Hypnotised?
“Confusion over gas supply.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
There always was, there always is,
Alas, there always will be,
While Chifley is Svengali and
The public is his Trilby.
YAIR.
Slight Alteration.
“The Hucksters, a stinging best-seller which
exposed radio and sponsors, will as a film
be only ‘a ten per cent, fire-cracker,’ according
to Clark Gable, who is to play the lead. The
hero’s love life is completely altered for film
purposes.”
Hiram X, Bortzphizzer, grand mogul
of Potboiler Productions, Inc., was in
conference with his ace producer, Her-
man Y. Guggelheimer, and his ace
director, Pancho Z. Bottellnek.
“This yere noo best-seller,” said
Hiram, “called Chips Coming Up, that
shoots the woiks about the stand-over
racket in the downtown bowling-alley
business and the District Attorney’s fight
to clean it up, will sure make a sizzling
number as a fillum, and then some. The
screen rights peeled forty-five ‘grand’ off
our roll, but it’s worth every cent. It’ll
be a sure-fire box-office gahunker, and
it’ll have the fans goggle-eyed and
grabbin’ at the spoqge-rubbers an’
hollerin’ for the racketeers’ blood. Our
version, when our ace script-writer’s
finished worrying it, will make the book
seem like Millicent’s Sunday School Ad-
venture after a Wesleyan preacher’s
censored it. How did you react to the
hero, Hoiman?”
“I’ll say he’s a corny sorta bozo, chief
—a clean-limbed,fearless straight-shooter,
name o’ Steve O’Flaherty, with a proud
old mother back in County Cork. Ar,
the fans’d give him the boid. Why, he
don’t even tote a Colt, an’ he plays De-
bussy and Beeth-oven on his grand
pianner while he nuts out his moves to
hornswoggle the tough yeggs. Nope,
that guy wants alterin’ some.”
“H’m. An’ whadda you think of the
heroine, Pancho?”
“A mousy dame, chief. Talks in a
soprano an’ wears red turkey twill and
back lace-ups and casts her eyes down if
a guy wants to treat her to a double shot
of rye. Name’s Deirdre, and her conver-
sation’s even worse. Daughter of the
old Virginny colonel who settled in li’l
ole Manhattan, bought a bowling alley
an’ is tryin’ to stick out against the big-
tkne standover man Butch Mulatto and
his gang.
“That goil an’ the key-thumping D.A.
are a case. When Butch, desperate in
the end, swipes the goil and burns up
the snow to the Adirondacks the D.A.,
aimin’ to poke his bib into a hot spot,
beats Butch to it with a helicopter and
is waitin’ in a neck o’ the woods as the
chiseller rumbles up in his jalopy with
the tied-up hundred an’ ten pound o’
cute curves. You know the old stunt —
Butch has enough artillery on him to sink
a corvette, but the square?jawed D.A.
scorns a fire-stick an’ plumps for the
steely gaze an’ stern voice tellin’ the big
shot he kaint beat the law. Butch turns
yallerer than a quarantine flag or John
L. Lewis, the gang gets bust wider open
than your pan is when the dentist reaches
for his drill, and the D.A. and the curves
go into a mushy clinch at the fade-out.”
Hiram shuddered. “Waal, boys, it
soitenly sounds corny. Somehow I never
thought the fans’d go for the southern
colonel —mint juleps an’ courtly bows an’
four-in-hand ties are deader than Huey
Long. We’ll make the old snoozer a rip-
roaring rancher from Utah who’s puttin’
up for mayor of Chocktaw Bend. A
guy like him —he’ll have a pan like a
sheep’s pelt that’s been dryin’ on the
fence for a year or so—wouldn’t be seen
dead with a daughter named Deirdre.
We better make the heroine his niece
Katie from the Bronx, up on a holiday.
Katie’s blood-pressure hits around the
double century whenever her mas-
cara’d lamps fall on Nat, leader of the
vigilantes, who aim to bust up a gang
of rustlers secretly led by the rancher’s
own foreman. Black Harrigan. Katie
finds out from a photo. Harrigan is really
Joe Bustabo, who escaped from Sing
Sing 'to avenge his third cousin’s death
at the hands of a half-breed Indian.”
“Swells chief,” put in Pancho. “That’ll
give our ace gag man a chance to woik
in somethin’ about ‘Ole Black Joe,’ see?”
“Okay. We can have a bally of beauti-
ful squaws doin’ a totem dance, then
finish up with the rustlers eggin’ the
Injins on and a sorta Custer’s Last Stand,
Old Glory wavin’ over the vigilantes,
the hero makin’ a dauntless speech on
demahcracy and the American way of
life while the bullets zip around him,
and a final scene. How come that final
scene? I got it —the mayor sittin’
in his office, his feet up on the desk,
pickin’ flies off the wall with his 45’s,
and then his niece, who’s ridden eighty
miles on her paint pony to bring rein-
forcements which arrive in the nick of
time, walkin’ hand in hand with the
vigilantes’ leader into the sunset while
Kay Kaiser and his band, with the Four
Inkspots and the Andrews Sisters, git to
woik on ‘Silent Night, Holy Night.’ It’ll
make a ’uman document that’ll have their
ears flappin’.”
“But, chief,” said the ace producer a
trifle dubiously, “where does the tie-up
come in with the best-seller we coughed
up forty-five ‘grand’ for?”
“Forget it, boys,” said the chief
breezily. “After all, the doin’s of a
skittle-alley chiseller ain’t very meaty stuff
to woik on, is it? Besides, we gotta
duty to the fans to uplift ’em, ain’t we?
Anyway, no author can expect the fillum
version to be exactly the same as his
book.”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Sandakan
While I was there (July, 1942, to
October, 1943), the possibility of rescue
was a much-discussed theme. Sandakan’s
defences were always weak, and there was
never more than a small number of
Japs in charge compared with the number
of prisoners. On one occasion there were
only 60 Japs and about 2300 p.-0.-w.
We had maps showing the Jap posts.
I rfemember our C. 0., Major Fleming
(Melbourne), saying what a temptation it
was to rise against the enemy when we
had every chance of success. The Japs
could not have landed reinforcements
within a week, as the only communica-
tion Sandakan had with the outside world
was by sea. But there were other con-
siderations.
At this time No. 1 Camp, with 1500
A.1.F., had more than 300 in hospital or
bed cases. Had we revolted we would
not have been able to take these men
with us into the jungle, and had we left
them.... we never like to dwell on what
would have happened to them. Assum-
ing that we had had no sick, what could
a body of men, only a small percentage
armed and all of them in rags and with-
out food or medical supplies, have accom-
plished in the Borneo jungle?
And suppose we had freed ourselves, in
the process slaughtering Japs, what would
have been the repercussions in other
p.-0.-w. camps?
Evidence given at the Tokyo war-
crimes trials (12/1/’47) has shown that
the Japs slaughtered 97 civilians on Wake
Island when the Americans were about
to invade it. When our own invasion at
Sandakan was imminent the Japs, it is
clear, intended that no p.-0.-w. Would be
rescued alive,
A party of 100 p.-0.-w. from
Kuching (Sarawak) was sent to Labuan
in 1944. Not long before the A.I.F.
landed there the p.-0.-w. were taken to
the mainland and marched to Miri, where
the survivors were shot or bayoneted.
There is no doubt what would have hap-
. pened to the prisoners at Kuching,
the next A.I.F. objective, if there had
been a landing on the coast near there.
In most instances successful rescues of
prisoners could have been carried out
only by paratroop surprise attacks.
Since my return I have been told by a
senior officer of General Blarney’s staff
that attempts to rescue the prisoners at
Sandakan were considered several times.
Fear of reprisals in other p.-0.-w. camps
was too great to allow any attempt to be
made. But for this fear there is little
doubt that the prisoners at Sandakan
would have been rescued. From this I
think it can be said in solemn justice that
they died so that prisoners in other Jap
horror camps might live to see the whole-
sale surrender of Japan.— Tidak Makan
(N.S.W.).
Alamein Tactics
Russian military commentators have
been showing some interest in them. This
is not surprising—it is safe to predict that
tacticians will be studying Alamein for
many years to come. What is surprising
is the Russian belief that Montgomery
was responsible for “an original military
doctrine.”
To the layman Montgomery is famous
for his inspiring leadership, colorful per-
sonality and flair for forceful Orders of
the Day. To the tactician Montgomery
is famous for his ability to dress not only
himself but also his tactical ideas in new
clothes. His writings will endure because
they express military truisms in new,
vigorous language. For example, a cen-
tury ago Von Clausewitz preached that
“defence is not a shield: it is a shield of
blows delivered with skill.” Montgomery
summed up the same principle in more
vital terms: “The object of the defence is
to destroy the enemy, not to stop him.”
It would be an Injustice to a great
general to try to detract from Mont-
gomery’s leadership ; but it would also be
unfair to British military doctrine to de-
scribe him as anything but a sound and
"orthodox tactician. Alamein was a
triiimph for orthodoxy. Alamein proved
—if further proof were necessary—that
the principles of concentration, economy
of force, surprise, security, mobility,
offensive action and co-operation are still
the fundamentals of tactics. Indeed,
Alamein was nearly lost through violation
of the principle of concentration. The
great feint movement by the Thirteenth
Corps in the south was designed to aid
surprise, but it was continued so long
that at one stage the major thrust in the
north began to lose impetus. Hurriedly
Montgomery regrouped his forces and
concentrated his effort on his primary
object of “breaking in and beating away
the enemy’s guts.”
Surprising as is the Russians’ failure
to understand the orthodoxy of Alamein,
even more surprising is their emphasis
on “Montgomery’s use of the forward
unit as a striking, force.” It is true
enough that in mobile operations the
forward unit is normally used as a hold-
ing or pinning force on which a flank-
ing or outflanking manoeuvre can turn,
but for many years it has been accepted
that the forward unit must also be pre-
pared and armed to brush aside minor
opposition.
In any case, Alamein ended a period of
static operations. Montgomery disposed
his forces in the shape of a giant’s left
hand, with the thumb resting on the sea
and the fingers probing into and through
the enemy’s minefields. The thumb was
the pivot of manoeuvre—the firm base on
which depended the security of the attack.
There was nothing revolutionary about
this plan: General Auchipleck had tried
the same manoeuvre —though with tired
troops and inferior equipment—a few
months earlier.
Unless the Russians are being exces-
sively fulsome or excessively stupid, their
comments would indicate that they are
20 years behind the British in their under-
standing of basic tactical principles.—
Peter Mike (W.A.).
Satisfied
I may be a rare bird, but I don’t think
so. Anyway, lam an ex-serviceman who
has had a fair deal.
Having gone from school to the ser-
vices, I was eligible for university train-
ing on discharge. I chose a science course
and received full assistance throughout
the year—living allowance, payment of
all fees and provision of books and in-
struments.
When the course proved beyond me I
fully expected that Rehabilitation would
no longer assist me. However, I found
that a sympathetic department offered a
number of alternatives —I could repeat
the university year or could be subsidised
for a further two years if I took up such
a profession as school-teaching, through
the Teachers’ Training College. Finally
I joined the staff of a private bank. Even
then Rehabilitation was ready with assist-
ance. It offered part-time training in
accountancy to the value of £6O.
Throughout all my inquiries I found
the Rehabilitation officers courteous,
sympathetic and understanding. A great
deal of red tape has been eliminated.
Very probably success is due to the fact
that the department is staffed by returned
men who have a first-hand knowledge
of servicemen’s problems.— Scavenger
(Q-X
“Information”
“Member” (B. 8 /1/ ’47) should approve
of the Department of Information em-
ploying journalists to write for it instead
of slating his colleagues. He should also
check his facts. Most of the material
sent overseas by the D. of I. consists of
factual articles written by some of the
best journalists in Australia. And the
photography is superior to most of what
you see in daily newspapers.
Actually, the best work of D. of I,
writers is not seen by many in Australia.
It goes overseas, “South-west Pacific,”
for instance ; one of the finest publica-
tions ever produced in Australia, it is
always full of factual articles and is desti-
tute of any political propaganda. Let
“Member” look at his dailies. He will
find them chockful of propaganda, the
factual stories being usually limited to
the cable page and the accident columns.
An Adelaide manufacturer, returned
from a visit to the U.S., criticised the
work of Australian journalists there,
overlooking their small numbers and in-
adequate funds. Our journalists in the
U.S., led by Gavin Casey, do a good
job, and I wish this were true of all our
manufacturers. I bought a watering-
can. It cost me three times the price of
an imported job ; it cuts me with its
sharp edges, and it leaks everywhere but
through the proper place, the watering
rose.—A. J. A. (S.A.).
Leprosy
The statement of “Galenus” (B.
13/11/’46), that no cure has been dis-
covered does not tally with information
gleaned in the Seychelles during a spell
of station duty there in 1940.
One of the Government medical
officers assured me that deep injections
of Chaulmoogra oil effect a cure in the
first and second stages, treatment being
concurrent with a diet calculated to build
up the patient’s physical resistance. This
treatment is also proving effective in
Africa, where it is used extensively.
Later, in the Botanical Gardens at
Pamplemousses, in Mauritius, I came
across a grove, of Hydnocarpus
wightiana, bearing a fruit not unlike a
small quince of light greyish color, from
the seeds of which is expressed the oil
known as Chaulmoogra.—E. S. F. (Singa-
pore). . .
People’s Guest
There has never been a more revolt-
ing crime than the Bulli (N.S.W.) murder.
A young worker of unblemished
character done to death without provoca-
tion and his fiancee, denied his protection,
subjected to dreadful atrocities all night
long. And Labor Ministers, protectors
of the workers, commute the sentence on
the monster in human form. Not because
he didn’t deserve the death penalty ; not
because of conviction by circumstantial
evidence; not because the criminal is in-
sane ; no! —because it is against “Labor”
policy to have the vilest murderer hanged
by the neck until he is dead.
As far as it was possible for public
opinion to assert itself, the people, speak-
ing through their Parliamentary represen-
tatives (Parliament was not in session),
demanded that the fiend should pay for
his crime with his life. “Labor” Ministers
decree that, far from dying, he shall live,
and live under conditions that would
cause John Howard to fall flat on his
face in astonishment. And who pays to
keep this murderer alive? The people.
—1940 Sucker (N.S.W.).
Bushfires
, Victoria, at least, has little to learn
from U.S.A. in bushfire prevention,
despite facts about the U.S. organisa-
tion given by “Wilydah” (B. 1/1 / ’47).
Since the Stretton report on the ’39
disaster thorough measures to protect
Victorian forests have been adopted. War
technology has been called in to aid fire
prevention. Nowadays outback forestry
posts often have radar installations that
transmit beams to R.A.A.F. spotting air-
craft. By means of these beams aircraft
can determine distance and direction
from the known ground radar stations.
Then aircraft can be directed by ground
wireless to fire areas (all forestry stations
have transmitter - receiver wirelesses).
Aircraft wireless can direct fire-fighting
and can bring into play a powerful new
weapon—the fire-fighting smoke bomb
that has been tested successfully at
Anglesea (Vic.).
“Wilydah’s” “smoke-jumpers” would
in many instances be of little use. These
parachuters would get tangled in upper
boughs of trees —and they might either
be hung or burnt there.
With the extra personnel engaged by
the Victorian Forestry Commission over
the fire season and the modern measures
of fire-detection and rfighting employed
fires in the Cabbage Patch will soon be
reduced to local inconveniences. Added
to all this is increased efficiency in the
actual fire pumps, which ensures greater
spraying-power per fire area.—Fire-
spotter (Vic.).
“Unbelievers”
“W.S.” (B. I/l/’47) gives insufficient
reasons for banning from the air the
views of “unbelievers.” The fact that be-
liefs have survived for ages does not
“That's a stolen car. After it — quick!"
justify their immunity from scrutiny in
the interests of truth—the all-important
factor in all doctrines; and Christianity,
with the State support of the greatest
nations of the world for nearly 2000
years, should surely be strongly enough
entrenched to safeguard its doctrines
against any criticism if its doctrines are
true. If they are not true they have no
more value than Grimm’s Fairy Tales,
and it is to be remembered that there
comes a time in each child’s life when
its belief in fairies and Santa Claus has
to be shattered. Adults must be credited
with fortitude equivalent to that of
children.
As to “setting brother against brother
and father against son,” if the radio
does that it will have achieved something
that, in my experience, the reading of
freethinking literature and the expres-
sion of freethinking views in families
divided in their outlook have never suc-
ceeded in doing. Strangely enough, all
the hate exists between believer and be-
liever of different brands, not between
believer and unbeliever. I cannot think
that the studied views of the latter can
adversely affect a Christian world cap-
able of two global wars in a quarter of
a century and their attendant atrocities.
Leave suppressions of speech and
thought to countries like Russia, which
has something to hide! If we have noth-
ing to hide, no discussion can harm us
that is pursued in the honest search for
truth, wherever the search takes us.
Mere antiquity is not hallowed. The
very people who use the old platitude
“What was good enough for my father
is good enough for me” reveal the hol-
of what they profess by using
planes, motor-cars, radios and refrigera-
tors —things their fathers never heard of
—and discard the horse and canvas water-
cooler.
The church itself dealt very harshly
with Galileo and Bruno for expressing
themselves in their pursuit of truth in a
manner which tended to shatter ancient
religious beliefs; but eventually Galileo
and Bruno were proved to be right and
the religious beliefs wrong. We had
enough wishful thinking in the war years
and, indeed, the years preceding the war,
to last us for a century. Let us have truth,
whatever the cost in ancient beliefs, and
consequently broader and kinder minds.
“W.S.” and those who hold his views
surely have the strength to turn a radio
knob.— Herbert Dawson (Q.).
Monotony in Variety
A spokesman of the Victorian Housing
Commission, answering a criticism that
it was plastering the country with madly
monotonous-looking houses that would
be there for generations, retorted that
this could not be. The commission’s
architects had provided a vast range of
different designs of houses from which
the discriminating homeseeker could
select his special fancy. If this is the
official viewpoint, no wonder occupants
of the commission’s new model suburbs
are already complaining that they feel the
same feelings of depression when they
look round their domestic landscape as
an explorer in the Never Never.
Variety of forms does not give variety.
The craftsmen of the Middle Ages made
tens of thousands of kettles of the same
shape, yet all look different. Put them in
a row and not two of them look alike
because each has some touch of the indi-
vidual artist in it. These old crafts-
men got variety out of monotony. The
commission, assisted by modern industry,
mass production and pre-fabrication by
machinery, gets monotony out of variety.
The Victorian Government has now set
itself up as the supreme controller of all
building and building material. It has
an absolute say as to what materials are
needed on any project, and can stop a
building operation and direct materials
elsewhere. Like the effects of atomic-
bomb radiation on the human body, the
results of this socialism of architecture,
half-baked as it is, will not be fully evi-
dent until the next generation. But suc-
ceeding generations will have to live with
it and in it until the houses fall to pieces,
and if history doesn’t record that it was
the worst period in Australian architec-
ture I will curry my hat and eat it s —
F. S. (Vic.).


Tax and Rent
Discharged just over 12 months ago, I
put in for my share of the New Order,
effusively promised to the forces. With-
out more than the usual difficulty I
managed to rent a house. It wasn’t much
of a house, but I thought it would pass
till I found something better.
I applied to the State Housing Com-
mission for something better. I was told
that, as I had a dwelling, my priority
would be very low. I do not cavil at
that, but I notice that those who have
been housed by the Commission pay rent
proportionate to their incomes; that is,
two tenants may occupy similar dwell-
ings, but the one on the lower income
pays the less rent. The rent of my fyouse
is out of proportion to my income.
Now, after 12 months of shelling out a
sum greater than I could afford, and with
no prospect of alleviation in the near
future, I observe that revenue is increas-
ing, with no sign of further tax reduction,
and I reflect that there must be thousands
of others like myself who have to hus-
band their resources carefully in order
to be able to keep up rent payments.
Why not apply a scheme, similar to the
Housing Commission’s estimate of rent
to be paid, to income-tax deductions? A
scale showing a reasonable rent payable
by the wage-earner in each particular
group could be drawn up, and then a
deduction could be claimed on all
amounts over the fixed scale. This would
also serve as a check on landlords who
%ay be concealing earnings from
property.— Bamekaw (Q.).
Freelance with a Grievance •
For the first 13 years of my freelancing
career I never growled. But 13 is an un-
lucky number and since then I’ve snarled
regularly every Monday. It was there-
fore encouraging to get strong support
from a Sydney sub-editor regarding news-
papers that don’t return or pay for
“acceptable” pars, gags or short verse
sent as contributions to certain sections
of their pages.
“This,” the sub-editor said, “is ridicu-
lous and the sooner newspapers wake up
to the fact the better.” He took a slip
of copy-paper and worked it out that, in
17 years of freelancing, I have lost nearly
£9OO, as (on a very rough average) eight
half-a-crown pars, verse, gags and letters
were set up in type, and then
“held over” until finally swamped by
more topical MS. They were all good
enough to be sent to the printer but not
for publication and payment.
“Papers,” the sub proceeded, “should
learn to know how much they want. A
soap-manufacturer wouldn’t dream of
letting a shop take a few thousand cakes
of soap free and just put them by in
case it might some day make use of
them.” I not only agree, but think it
time all freelances made such a row about
unpaid-for and unreturned “small” manu-
scripts that editors, like the fair-minded
gents they’re cracked up to be, took some
notice. It would help us put some, heart
into our work. — Eve Merritt (N.S.W.).
The Doctor
The success of any medical social
service must ultimately depend upon the
altruism of the medical profession, but
assessment of that altruism today is not
easy for the layman.
With specialisation, post-graduation
and the increasing volume of sales of
practices all contributing to the ebb and
flow of suburban medicoes, relationship
with a doctor seldom progresses beyond
that of patient and % debtor. Without,
therefore, any real personal knowledge of
a doctor, the layman must decide, from
what he sees and hears, the extent to
which the medical profession is prepared
to forgo social, academic and financial
progress in the application of itself to the
care of the sick.
Some of the things the layman sees are
large and pretentious homes, shining new
cars and repetitive mention in social
columns. All of this means money, be
it cash or credit. Ordinary consultations
are pegged by custom at half a guinea ;
so that the cost of homes, cars and the
like must come either from quick con-
sultations with numerous patients or from
high fees for those operations or services
for which custom or law sets no limits.
As against this, every layman recollects
occasions when the throat-drying panic
of sudden or serious illness in his family
has been turned into hope by the self-
lessness and competence of a doctor. He
hears of similar incidents from his
friends, and knows that these incidents
are not infrequent.
Weighing these observations in the
balance, the layman finds the doctor a
fellow-human-being, more finely tempered
by training and knowledge, but setting,
as do all citizens today, considerable
store on material acquisitions and the
wherewithal with which to acquire ad-
vancement, both as a private citizen and
as a scientist. Moreover, it is conceded
as desirable that a doctor should be a
man of standing, so as to engender the
confidence needed to entrust to his care
the precious life of some loved one.
A medical social service scheme is,
therefore, only acceptable where there is
economic difficulty, or for illnesses and
accidents where diagnosis is quick and
sure, and intelligent nursing will effect
a cure. For those cases requiring observa-
tion, research, experience, experiments or
specialised attention, quality must, as)
always, be paid for, if there is to be the
satisfaction that only quality can give.
—F. W. C. (Q.).
League, U.N.O. and Australia
In the time of the League of Nations
the question of migration to the
Dominions never was brought up. British
influence and respect for the might of the
Empire preserved for us our White Aus-
tralia and other ideals.
A change has come over the scene. As
a result of World War II Britain has
less say than formerly and thus we find
U.N.O. discussing migration in an inter-
fering spirit. The might of the British
Empire seems as nothing in its councils
when even Australian representatives like
to take a twist at the old Lion’s tail.
Other nations are swift to recognise
that the Empire no longer talks with one
voice, but with many. It is the old story
of the bundle of sticks.
From the war it alone fought from the
first shot to the last, Britain gained
nothing. Russia is the one Power that
has gained in territory and other matters ;
gained immensely. We are in danger of
losing the Far East, and once that hap-
pens, then Australia lies exposed to
attack, open or underhand, or both. The
next thing will be an attack on our White
Australia policy and we may be forced
to open our doors to all and sundry.
Meanwhile nothing is done by our
immediate leaders in Australia to take
steps to rehabilitate the bonds of Empire.
It was a united Empire that protected
us in the past, but they have for-
gotten this. Even the one link of the
Governor-Generalship they seem to wish
to break. They eschew the word Empire,
while all the time Russia and the U.S.A.
go on making empires under another
name.
It takes a statesman to see beyond to-
day. We have no statesmen, only poli-
ticians who can see only today. God help
our children and their children if there is
not soon a change in methods!—J, A. J.
Hunter, ex-M.H.R. (N.S.W.).
The Lake Eyre Country
Planting of the arid wastes round Lake
Eyre (B. 1/1 / ’47) with spineless cactus
might be a means of stopping wind
erosion, that is, if the cactus would grow
in five- or six-inch country, but I fail
to see how it could increase the rainfall.
“Teret” makes the absurd statement
that the Lake Eyre rainfall is now only
about half the 1920 average; this is not
in accord with statistics and is probably
based on the oft-repeated but incorrect
assertion that average rainfalls are now
much lower than in the early days.
Rainfall figures have been recorded for
stations on the west, south and east of
Lake Eyre for varying periods up to 70
years. A comparison of detailed figures
published in 1918 and present-day aver-
ages discloses differences varying from a
few points to a maximum of 50 points.
The highest mean recording is at Marree,
6.05 inches to 1917 and 5.81 inches to
the present day.—H. M. C. (S.A.).
Tasmania Gives a Lead
Delegates to the United Nations Edu-
cational Association, visiting Tasmania,
were deeply impressed with the Rural
Area Schools. Established in 1935, these
schools were modelled in principle on the
ideas of Henry Morris in England, who
founded community centres from groups
of small villages to improve the educa-
tional and cultural development of boys
and girls and adults.
Morris realised that the cities were
sucking vigorous, healthy, enterprising
youths from the country. The same evil
process has been going on in Australia
for many years. Parents, anxious for
children to acquire leaving certificates,
move to the city. Lack of amenities in
the country helps the drift. Dispersion
of industry in the country will help some-
what, but improved medical, hospital,
library and many other facilities are
needed to combat the anti-country bias.
The Tasmanian Rural School system
gives children a wider outlook, culture
and knowledge ; develops inquiry and re-
search, appreciation of beauty and the
spirit of enterprise. These influences
spread from pupils to parents, who favor
children living at home during their im-
pressionable years. Later the scheme
will include boys and girls up to 18 years,
with agricultural high school and
technical education.
Area schools have become social rally-
ing centres, in step with the lives of the
people in the districts.
Advisory councils elected by parents’
associations, with Government nominees.
ensure that the scheme is adapted to local
needs. Numbers of small schools were
closed, with parents’ concurrence, children
being transported daily by Government
buses to larger central schools, specially
staffed and equipped to provide ampler
“ I’ve got this joker hook, line and sinker
education and broader vision as an intro-
duction to real life. The social and
psychological reactions resulting from the
broader outlook and wider social con-
tacts-and improved teaching facilities are
most marked.
The syllabus extends primary-school
work, but aims at developing an appreci-
ation of literature, encouraging intelligent
reading, social studies, commercial train-
ing and constructive ability in handi-
crafts, farm bookkeeping, first aid, health
knowledge, music, civics, etc. For boys,
agriculture, blacksmithing, woodwork,
sheet metal, leather and concrete work;
for girls, domestic arts, cookery, laundry
and needlework, home decoration, physi-
ology and horticulture. School vegetable
gardens and growing of dairy and farm
products tend to develop rural leanings.
Calf clubs, dramatic clubs, libraries,
photo, sections, canteens, model poultry
units, pig-raising, orchardising, water-
supply, fencing, Junior Red Cross, Junior
Farmers and other activities bridge the
gap between school and post-school life.
Formal examinations are frowned upon ;
credit is given for consistently satisfactory
work.
Australia’s future ds a nation depends
largely on a virile rural population, cap-
able of making us self-supporting and
defensively strong, reinforced by healthy
immigrants from abroad. But to attract
people to rural areas and keep them there
educational facilities and social and other
amenities- equal to those of the cities
must be provided.—T. W- (Tas.).
The Living Wage
In his sound treatment of a thorny
subject “F.G.H.” (B. 11/12/’46) refers
to inflated wages as having the effect of
forcing up prices of available com-
modities. This is a fact. But when he
suggests increased production on exist-
ing wages as the simplest means of stimu-
lating competition and so reducing prices
he states something that is more a
promise than a fact.
His whole argument rather unfairly im-
plies that labor alone is the cause of the
existent evil of underproduction.
If, in the face of underproduction, the
demand for higher wages is an evil, then
the fact that prices can be forced up
under similar conditions is also an evil,
and for the latter you cannot lay the en-
tire blame on labor.
Increased costs force unionism to agi-
tate for higher wages. Without some
form of price-pegging the process is a
vicious spiral, the one chasing the other.
Admittedly, there are undesirable
revolutionary elements at the head of
some trade-unions, but this does not con-
demn all trade-unionism and all union
leaders. Admittedly, too, there are
workers too easily led into “go-slow”
policies and strikes, but this is not neces-
sarily a refutation of the industrial
honesty of the Australian worker,
Remove the cause of the workers’
willingness to be led and then see how
little power these revolutionaries really
have. Increase the value of workers’
pound by increasing wages and pegging
prices, which is the only way it really
can be appreciated,
The workers are tired of promises of
a rosy prosperity if only they will work
harder. Start paying them now and they
will increase production. A satisfied
worker is worth three disgruntled ones,
Many people think that the present
industrial unrest is due to the machina-
tions of Moscow’s agents. Others blame
maladministration and unsound taxation.
Others again claim that the cause is a
widespread desire for a change in our
form of society. All these beliefs are
small fires giving off a little smoke, but
the real fire is the living wage.
Is it not significant that many of our
economists, on reaching a certain point,
begin to discourse gloomily or enthusi-
astically, as the case may be, on Social-
ism and Communism? Why? Because
they have come up against something
which has to do with a* living wage or
the improved welfare of the masses;
better distribution of commodities; call
it what you like. But no battle was ever
won by running away, and no radical
change of economy is justified until all
avenues for improving the existing one
are exploited.
This is a new avenue, almost the only
remaining one. Give the worker a higher
standard of living now and then let him
earn it. And sell the idea to the em-
ployer as well as the employed.—J. A.
(Fiji).
Chinese Culture
“In what respect is the ancient and
highly-developed Chinese culture superior
to ours?” “Pasquin” asks (B. 8/l/’47).
Well, take agriculture, the basis of any
civilised living. Though in certain parts
of China there has been serious soil
erosion, in large areas of that huge
country the land has retained fertility un-
impaired after 4000 years of intense culti-
vation. The skill of Chinese farmers has
been highly praised by that great agricul-
tural scientist Sir Albert Howard, and by
the American Professor King in his
classic Farmers of Forty Centuries.
Howard gives the Chinese, the Japs and
some of the peoples of India credit for
evolving sounder methods of husbandry
than the traditional European farming
system.
It is in those very up-to-date countries
U.S.A. and Australia that damage done
to the soil has been greatest. 11l Fares
the Land, a terrible indictment of Ameri-
can business farming, and the Australian
Elyne Mitchell’s Soil and Civilisation
vividly reveal the harm wrought by “soil-
floggers” in some parts within the span of
a normal man’s lifetime.
As for Chinese art, authorities of the
standing of Sheldon Cheney and Laurence
Binyon have praised it highly, as the Aus-
tralian Hardy Wilson has praised Chinese
architecture. In the field of ceramics
the Chinese have been universally recog-
nised as amongst the world’s masters.
England’s eighteenth-century potters drew
inspiration from China, as did Chippen-
dale and his fellow-cabinet-makers of that
golden age of British furniture. — Tom
(N.S.W.).


I r v-r. .kV;
_'_ S' 4 M
ml®
x j
m
ir
■r;
iVjMvsj
pJiiV
nC
a
A-\ 1 i
h ft -
«
S”^
r'il# "% ‘
3>f /W&Xv-
xUr
a 4^,c
tfff 1
fjh
HI t V
i? s
K
I r f < iff I
r<
i
s Y
U • s
' |-i, t
*>$ft £**
w
n
4avK
A
S fc^=i
%f,
i
it
tv
’’V
XfU I
“■ ■>.,
*3?
'O-
fH
i j
", ••
w«.
-X
■'St<
fsi
v.
(-?
iS ,(»it«^
»*fe
>
HO
t00^
>?
fX ’H i? ' tx'<£fe|&
IV\ 1 • 1
•' * ' x
f Rf "* \ „ a<^!L
4 15 ;f\r%'j
m
A
'£
A
Pr*
O:
Vk
rr
0$
ii
ftW
i
V
PV**
><
>“V
I
a
M/i
fti
• n*K
WAY
h
fjgzTtr
O
SCS
fit
<8
c
L ifiw
.~*r !C f. ;L
ret>
S *UT
i s f , ? r -j.
Mtf:
ira^~ 2 '
iV"
/Vs
n
w'
3U
sc
W
r.
%*
H5
If)
c»oo v
C
w
s
ft
A ft>\
Rf
•H
r\
3j=P.
Tif iM|i i,i '^ /^t^JS
jCRQSSlMfi jfp
i8
safe
in hK
8 ? 8 « 8 8 i s
f r. a I It
&
V'
a
;f.-vr;r
ffi
H
•!.,<> A
P- ( /*V,
M
-:
IS 5
<"■
A-
i#
-^T
:' - : ‘- .
X/
«t5Wi
c
?=ai
tri'.p
X
«5
X
&
=^«SSS;
...
lift „ rr~
« v K
I?
• si-'
fc^*
.i *•
,sr>%
5
rrx
m
7
■ a »• » \ ,)* fs v». -v % \iliPlittsSiwrpf i" -if Ii
PUBLISHED IN THE INTERESTS OF SAFER MOTORING BY
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED fiftf
Marketers of "C.O.R Plus" Motor Spirits • "C.O.R" Power Kerosene • "CORALITE" Lamp Kerosene A 51/1 X"
"C.O.R Light Oiesoleum"• "C.O.R" Diesel Oils • "C.O.R" Fue/ and Bunker Oils >lA 4X
!
h
C46
HEED ALL ROAD SIGNS
FOR SAFER MOTORING
Remember - road courtesy means road safety.
Keep in your line of traffic;
don't be a "traffic weaver."
Keep your position on hills and curves:
pass only when you can see safely ahead.
Use hand signals correctly:
let others know what you intend to do.
Exercise extra caution at intersections.
Observe police and traffic signals:
don't beat the lights.
Children are careless:
be careful of their movements.
When you stop, pull off the carriage way.
Keep to the left:
after passing vehicles return to the left.
