

The House of Seppelt...producers of
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
VoL 68 —No. 3527
Wednesday, September 17, 1947
Price 6d.
«
Registered at the General Post Offlee, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ST. LAWRENCE IS A REMINDER OF DROGHEDA’S ANCIENT PAST
“the Bridge of the
Ford,” is situated on the river
Boyne about four miles from its
mouth. Although possessing many
interesting ecclesiastical and archi-
tectural remains, it is best known for
its historical associations, including
famous St. Lawrence Gate. One of
the most ancient places in Ireland,
it was here that Heremon, son of
Milesius, landed, after having lost
his brothers, Aireach and Colpa, in
the bay. Drogheda suffered re-
peatedly from the incursions of the
Danes, and later from the Anglo-
Norman invaders. Richard II held
his court here in 1395, and in one of
the Parliaments of Drogheda the
famous Poyning’s law was passed in
1494. In 1641 its English garrison
was unsuccessfully besieged by Sir
Phelim O’Neil. The city is associ-
ated with the massacre of the garri-
son by Oliver Cromwell in 1649.


Stance Joan*? 1
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin
My Name
My Addrete
8.8. U 7 AGE
JUVENILE AND ADVENTURE
TREACHERY AT 40 KNOTS
By P. G. Griggs. A sea story for boys
that will capture everyone’s imagination, 7/6
FOUR WINDS AND A FAMILY
By D. Cusack and F. James. Little girls
will love this book about themselves . . •
charmingly illustrated by Nan Knowles, 7/6
PERILOUS JOURNEY
By Marea Wolkowsky. Set in the days
of Good Queen Bess, every page is brimful
of swashbuckling adventure 7/«
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS pty.Ltd.
Central House, Little Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
TOKENS OF POETRY.
Since Angus and Robertson’s Austra-
lian Poetry series was founded six years
ago the verse produced in this country
has taken on a stature that goes beyond
the scope of the anthology. R. G.
Howarth two years ago managed to find
space for the whole of Robert Fitz-
Gerald’s “Heemskirck Shoals,” but he
was lucky, for that poem was—just—of
manageable length.
The best that T. Inglis Moore has been
able to do in the latest issue, Australian
Poetry, 1946, is to give, as it were, a token
of the work that is being produced. And
sometimes not even that, except insofar
as a name and a few lines of verse may
remind readers of the past achievements
and potentialities of the writer. Fitz-
Gerald is represented by a short poem
about spring and Mondayitis, technically
adroit and, having precisely three and a
half pictorial lines amongst its meta-
physics—
like this white patch
of week-end miracle on tea-tree thatch —
positively unbridled in its restraint. Only
a knowledgeable or a very acute reader
could deduce from its vigor of thought
and spirit that Fitz Gerald has had, and
will have, very much more to say.
Judith Wright and Francis Webb are
both represented by extracts from long
poems, the first from “The Moving
Image” and the second from “A Drum
for Bfen Boyd.” There is force enough
in the extracts from Webb’s poem:
Far under our blazing barracks of the sun
Where only the spent rains sink out of memory
And bone grapples bone in uncouth heraldry,
One man’s soul scatters its weathering
fragments.
Shreds of laurel crumble in the brains of
friends;
Hooked barbs ,of venom rust with an enemy;
Perhaps the true balance lies with .some quiet
woman
Who will not shriek accusations to struggle
through
The choking green smoke of the grass—
and an acute reader might perceive, be-
yond the force, the skilful use of internal
rhyme in “choking green smoke of the
grass,” and the keen observation ex-
pressed in a strong and original vocabu-
lary—“bone grapples bone in uncouth
heraldry.” Yet the extracts, showing also
the signs of struggle proper to a young
poet grappling, irt exuberant heraldry,
with the bones of Ben Boyd, and not in-
cluding the simpler portraits from the
central passages of the poem as it was
originally published in The Bulletin,
might be formidable to the ordinary
reader; and, at best, are but a token of
the whole. “A Drum for Ben Boyd,” in-
cidentally, will shortly be published com-
plete in book form by Angus and Robert-
son, with pen-decorations by Norman
Lindsay.
Because Judith Wright’s poem, though
of considerable length, was shorter and
more compact than Webb’s, falling on
the mind like a lyric in a single passionate
impact instead of in a gradual develop-
ment of separate scenes and portraits, the
extracts from “The Moving Image” give
a more satisfying notion of the complete
poem. The pell-mell vitality shows
clearly, and also that singing;, lyricaJi
quality so hard to find in contemporary
verse and yet so important an element of
the great tradition;
Till the tide of life come back, till time’s great
tide
roar from our depths and send us mad again
with a singing madness, like poor Tom of
Bedlam —
poor Tom, through whose feverish blood life
poured like thunder
till the frail floodgates burst within his brain,
and sleepless in his cell he sang and cried;
till the straw of his prison broke into flowers
of wonder;
till the universe was the limit of his chain
and galaxies glowed through the low roof he
lay under.
Yet an extract, however impressive, is
not the whole poem. This is only a token
of Judith Wright’s achievement. In Rose-
mary Dobson’s case, as in Fitz Gerald’s,
there is something less than a token. The
two short lyrics by which she is repre-
sented, though delicate and thoughtful
work, give little indication of the play of
wit and fancy to be found in her “Devil
and Angel” series, still less of the richly
decorative imagery and range of imagina-
tion to be found in her long poem, “The
Ship of Ice,” which won “S.M. Herald’s”
competition.
These are not complaints against the
anthology; but, rather, an indication
that, perhaps in five years’ time, when the
writers have had the privilege of indi-
vidual publication, and when more work
has been done, it should be possible to
make an anthology of startlingly high
quality of Australian long poems. Since
Fitz Gerald wrote “Essay on Memory”
and reminded Australian writers that
something more than the ballad or the
lyric was needed for a major reputation,
there has been work on a big scale; a
prophecy and, to a considerable degree,
an achievement of spaefousness, vigor and
splendor. Besides those mentioned, other
contributors to Australian Poetry, 1946,
have worked on a big scale: Kenneth
Mackenzie in Our Earth and, in a more
fragmentary way, W. Hart-Smith in his
“Columbus” series.
Here and there Inglis Moore’s selec-
tion gives a “token” service of a less satis-
factory kind—there are good names
attached to inadequate poems. There aie
also a couple of academic items, well
enough in themselves, but not fresh and
living ; there are two cut-throat pieces of
a political rather than a poetic nature;
and there are too many soldier elegies—
J. A. Henderson’s “Two Desert Graves,”
which, a bit better written, would have
been a little masterpiece, could have stood
for the lot.
To balance these, and to carry on the
stream of lyrics and short poems which,
in their own way, are just as important
as the longer narratives, there are Nan
McDonald’s “Candles” (a short narrative
exceptionally clean and clear both in
movement and description), “E’s” tall
and heraldic “Emus,” Ken Barratt’s
mystical exploration in the company of
Burke and Wills, Nancy Keesing’s
beautiful “Imminent Summer,” Kenneth
Mackenzie’s “Genesis” (a strange poem,
marking, perhaps, a new development in
his work), and David Campbell’s “The
Possum and the Moon” in which, when a
possum scolds the moon, the lyrist makes
a haunting picture of that “timelessness”
most people have felt in the bush :
I heard the possum cry
Beneath the yellow moon.
I said, “That moon was made
From this same sandstone.”
The moon looked through the trees
And where her shadows stood,
Blackmen sprang upright;
They filled the ancient wood.
Campbell’s poem serves to illustrate what,
disregarding the doldrums, is the most
interesting trend of the anthology as a
whole, after the movement towards
narrative has been noted; its distinctive
but generally unself conscious “Austra-
lianness,” fresh, realistic and lyrical.
It is perhaps worth observing that, in
addition to drawing on the “A.B.C.
Weekly,” “Australia,” “Meanjin Papers,”
“Southerly” and “S. M. Herald,” Inglis
Moore has reprinted from The Bulletin
poems by the following writers: “E,”
Francis Webb, Mary Finnin, Mary
Gilmore, Hugh McCrae, Judith Wright,
Rosemary Dobson, Douglas Stewart,
Robert D. Fitz Gerald, Nan McDonald,
David Campbell, F. John Blight, Val
Vallis, J. A. Henderson, Nancy Keesing
and James Devaney.
A Modern Maupassant
Schools, it appears, are schools all the
world over; and French schoolboys are
astonishingly like Australian school-
boys:—
From the College all that the eye could
see was bare, brown and muddy fields,
above which the birds of winter soared in
deliberate, heavy flight; dark, sinister
woods, dull leaden clouds, and a few dismal
houses, closed; while in the far distance
some patches of dirty snow were con-
spicuous on a hostile and forbidding
horizon.
Thus imprisoned, the unhappy new boys
were shivering and shedding tears of dis-
tress over the disheartening dryness of the
elements of grammar, over the Greek alpha-
bet, and the traps in De viris illustribus.
The elder boys, up to every dodge and as
hardened as prisoners with previous con-
victions, thought of nothing but securing
good places near the stoves, upon which
they secretly cooked apples and nauseating
mixtures of chocolate, butter and gruyere
cheese The school was a mixture of a
prison and an Eskimo hut.
The quotation is from Gabriel Cheval-
lier’s Sainte Colline (Seeker and War-
burg), translated by Jocelyn Godefroi —
a novel of rare quality. Chevallier is
the man who wrote Clochemerle, a book
about which it is difficult to resist a
superlative: the loveliest novel of modern
times.
Sainte Colline is not another Cloche-
merle. Even though the author was wise
not to try to repeat his masterpiece, one
cannot help regretting the absence of that
rich, intimate comedy of village life, that
atmosphere of wine and earth —like
Rabelais distilled in sunlight—that was
the essence of the earlier novel. Cloche-
merle was the whole of rural France;
Sainte Colline is a boys’ school.
And if France at large is necessarily
and admirably absent from Sainte Col-
line, except for some glimpses of the
boys’ parents and their home life, the
novel is still inferior to its predecessor
within its own limits. Clochemerle
wandered; the Sainte Colline narrative
loses itself altogether from time to time.
Clochemerle had an unsatisfactory end-
ing ; but Sainte Colline has such tangled
and abstruse digressions into church
history, the pros and cons of the celibacy
of the priesthood and the like, that an
impatient reader might never get to its
more pleasant conclusion. Clochemerle
was episodic; Sainte Colline is almost
like a collection of short stories, and
these, up to a point, are repetitive.
But the same mind made the two
novels. With all its faults, Sainte Colline
is a minor masterpiece, a book bom to
become a classic. The entertainment is
rich and at times uproarious; and the
mind behind it is serene, mellow and
profound.
At its simplest level of entertainment
it is an amusing book about the pranks
the bad boys indulge in, like a French
version of Stalky and Co. Beyond that
it is a realistic study of child psychology,
none the less sympathetic for being
comic. Individually the boys are as con-
vincing, as lively and as funny as the
urchins of Saturdee; and Chevallier ex-
cels in describing them in the mass
when the whole class baits an unpopular
master;
Lhumite, the boy principally concerned in
the whole affair, was the first to give out
and laugh aloud.
From the very start the Division had
been on the lookout for an excuse to let
itself go. A tremendous burst of hilarity
was suddenly heard beneath the dimly-
lighted peristyle. The uproar was com-
pounded of deep, muffled roulades, shrill,
quavering trills, short, sharp cries, with
gusts of sound which came in violent suc-
cession with no interval of silence between
them. These forbidden sounds all came
from hidden mouths. A collective frenzy
took violent hold of all these boys, who
were stamping about in their joy, and,
taking advantage of the extreme confusion
and disorder which .prevailed for the pur-
pose of assuaging some long-standing thirst
for revenge, were pinching or giving each
other blows.
In the midst of this tumult the most
thoroughly aroused among them were hurl-
ing about the grossest insults, the most
abominable- scurrilities, thereby giving free
rein to, and ridding themselves of, evil
impulses which had been too long curbed
and repressed by the restraints of the system
under which they lived. The Division was
behaving like a crowd which is seeing red,
while in each of those small human minds
a gentle, almost unconscious hope was
coming to birth, a hope of witnessing at
long last the suppression of that tyrant,
the AbM Jubil, who in his surprise and his
fury, and temporarily overwhelmed by the
suddenness and violence of this tornado,
was awaiting his opportunity for revenge.
Here, then, are two of the novel’s
merits; its comedy and its accurate por-
trayal of the boys. Beyond that it gives
a series of remarkable portraits of the
masters, a gallery ranging from the
comic to the majestic. It is a tribute to
Sainte Colline that it keeps reminding
one of the charming, the amusing and
the great books of the world’s literature,
and this is not because Chevallier imi-
tates any one of them —he writes in the
tradition of Balzac and De Maupassant
rather than directly under their influence
—but because he has that combination
of tolerance, wisdom and honesty to be
found all over the world where first-
class minds are at work. In his portraits
of the masters he touches greatness, and
here he reminds one of Trollope. Cheval-
lier is French and, apparently, a Catho-
lic ; Trollope was English and Angli-
can ; yet Chevallier’s Father Marededieu
is strikingly similar to the unforgettable
Rev. .Crawley, and Chevallier’s statement
of his point of view is in the same
terms, and almost in the same words, as
Trollope’s:
In that dark cell in which he ruminated
over an apostolic greatness to which he
would never attain, and which his era
denied him the slightest opportunity of
reaching, Marededieu would groan and
lament over his powerlessness. One guessed
that he was the victim of his own fierce
striving; one could not withhold from him
some measure of respect. Jubil was a dif-
ferent kind of man altogether. He was a
mediocrity who enjoyed the calm serenity
of the fool
For one thing is certain. People are
what they are, and no career they adopt
can alter their essential nature. In the
exercise of a profession with a metaphysi-
cal background, the Fathers of Sainte Col-
line brought to bear the same qualities and
the same defects as they would have done
in an entirely different calling No less
than among other men, the conduct of
these priests revealed weaknesses and
absurdities which sometimes turned their
thoughts away from the subject which
chiefly occupied their minds, their eternal
salvation, or at least greatly altered the
course of those human journeys which lead
in time to that central point of supreme
and lasting joys.
In a haphazard way Sainte Colline
manages eventually to become a novel
as distinct from a collection of short
stories. Covering one year of school life,
it is necessarily fragmentary and incom-
plete, yet half a dozen themes, the prob-
lems of both pupils and priests, are
worked out well enough to a conclusion ;
and it is worth noticing that, at the final
prize-giving, where the ineffable Pinoche,
the worst boy in the school, wins a prize
for history—he has read the subject for
his own pleasure while “wagging” from
other lessons —Chevallier ends on a note
of laughter and optimism: for Cloche-
merle, enchantingly gay though it was,
ended with gloom and catastrophe, fore-
shadowing the collapse of France in the
war.
One book is not enough to indicate the
fate of a nation. Yet, just as the ugly,
despairing, chaotic, infantile or frivolous
art of Picasso and Matisse showed clearly
that France had succumbed to de-
cadence, so may Sainte Colline point to
a recovery. At least it shows that the
spirit of De Maupassant is still alive in
France and that one Frenchman, talk-
ing the common language of humanity, is
making literature in the great tradition.
Children's Books .
Elaine Haxton’s lively and colorful
paintings of birds make Veronica Basser’s
Glory Bird outstanding amongst an
attractive bundle of children’s books from
John Sands Pty., Ltd., Sydney. Miss
Haxton’s talent is essentially decorative
and capricious, and here, to animate the
pleasant little fantasy, decoration and
caprice are exactly right. Disney never
did anything more charming than these
drawings—and they are not imitation
Disney.
Walter Cunningham, who has illustrated
Leslie Rees’s Sadi, the Barrier Reef
Turtle, is a more realistic artist than Miss
Haxton, but just as decorative in his own
way. As in Leslie Rees’s Shy, the Platy-
pus, of which a new edition is published,
Cunningham excels in underwater im-
pressions—for which the life story of a
turtle among the coral and colored fishes
of the Barrier Reef gives him plenty of
scope. Leslie Rees’s series of children’s
books, which combine Australian nature
lore with an entertaining story, are
deservedly popular, and Sadi is well up
to standard—nicely written, and admir-
able in its visualisation of the dangers
and delights of a turtle’s life, from dodg-
ing sharks or lying stranded on the beach
to sporting amongst
masses of cornflower - blue staghorn
branching coral, forests of it. The blue of
it was electric, living, quivering with cool
fire, caused by the tiny movements of the
polyp tentacles within the coral chambers.
Like stark blue-flaming fingers the stag-
horn coral was dazzling in its blue. Sarli
would drift and swim gently around it.
But there were other colors and kinds of
coral, scores of them. Mustards and
yellows, emeralds and greys, lavender and
pink and red ochre and khaki. Some soft
like wet hair, pale-hued and hiding little
white crabs that Sarli sought out and
gobbled.
A fourth John Sands publication is
Pamela Finds the Rainbow Castle, a
fairytale by Babs McDonald, decorated
with witches, rabbits, magic castles, etc.,
by the author.
Marjorie Rixson’s They Sail at Sunrise
(Georgian House, Melbourne), with
black-and-white drawings by Joan Turner,
is for children from six to ten. It tells,
in lively and amusing style, of the deep-
sea adventures of a rat and a platypus
aboard the good ship ’ Rataplat.
Four Winds and a Family (Shakspeare
Head, Sydney) is a children’s book with
a well-known name attached to it —
Dymphna Cusack. Miss Cusack has
collaborated with Florence James, and
there are black-and-white illustrations by
Nan Knowles. Three small girls for
heroines, and a quantity of cats and
kittens, make it an all-feminine affair. It
has an attractive Blue Mountains setting,
and the adventures, having to do with
snakes, tadpoles, waterfalls and explorers,
are humorous and realistic. Other
children’s books from the same publisher
are Anne Chesnfcy’s Leslie Wins Through
—a bright school story concerned with
stolen exam, papers—and Dora Birtles’s
Pioneer Shack, about the adventures of
a family in search of a house.
Charles Shaw’s The Treasure of the
Hills (second edition from Dymock’s)
caters for both boys and girls and has
to do with a search for treasure supposed
to have been buried by Ben Hall in the
Eugowra Hills.
Recent additions to the Puffin Story
Books —a series for children from the
Penguin people—include a reprint of the
immortal Alice; Stormalong by Alan
Villiers (a true story of a voyage on the
Joseph Conrad); Starlight by H.
Mortimer Batten (the life story of a
timber wolf); and The Incredible Adven-
tures of Professor Branestawm by
Norman Hunter with illustrations by
Heath Robinson.


Anthony Horderns’
124 Years of Service
yk\
\:\
Ut
L~
m
m
i
Yf
mm
M
m
i
r, s.
m
r , .
um
m
// ,
■A '>
m
m
/ '
m
/ /
/V' •.
Y'
//
"Y,S -.
Now is the time to think of
Summer Comfort! .
1. —Men’s Suede Sandals in Brown, Burgundy, and Fawn,
Neat design, leather soles, good fitting, all sizes
sto 10. Price, 20/6
2. —Men’s Roman Sandals, flex rubber soles. Ideal fc
sport or beach wear. Brown or White. Boys’ sizes,
11 to 1, price, 9/9. Youths’ sizes, 2to 4, price, 11/3
Men’s sizes, 5 to 10, price, 12/9
3. —Tan Grained Sandals, strong siewn soles.
Youths’ sizes, 1 to 4, price, 15/-. Men’s sizes 5 to 10, 15/6
4. —Men’s Super Grade Sandals, good fitting,
full and half sizes. Flex repairable soles. Price, 22/3
P'
(?)
■/yY
v N
(V s
,1
U
Men’s Brown Suede Buckle
Leisure Shoes made on
good fitting last in full
and half sizes. Flex
repairable soles.
Price, 25/10
m
Q
s
33
n
, V.y"
/■/
/'
2
x^
Y,
f Y,
/s'
Ss
'Xx
V
Y/ 'V
1
3
SY<
Y'
V/
//''/
/YY
,X/
X
XX
Y
Y'"
Y Y
xx
Xx ■"
mi
w
ft V Y/
. x/
Y, ' X
S 'Y
o-
Q
/
-^yyy'/'SY
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’PHONE; M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT - ’ BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
I
III!
II I
WOH PPI
m i
■ Sfl&
w
Modem high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You'll Jump oat
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, Yousulfer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel *’up and up." Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3/- & 1/3.
BRANDAtERrS
SB
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitation*
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
PENS
Set 1
V
*
t:
a
-
*
\w
6^
The training of a gun dog
should begin as soon as he starts
losing his puppy ways. He may
be able to work intelligently at
about one year, and should be at
his best for keenness, steadiness,
intelligence and hard work
from about 3 years until old
age begins to overtake him.
A whisky enters its prime from
the age of five years onwards.
Maturity gives it fine bouquet and
mellow flavour. Corio Special
is aged for over five years
(more than double the
minimum prescribed
by Commonwealth
Cl\
VI
5
Special
Vi*
i
WHI 8 KY
Wl9/3?
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy books published by The Bulletin be-
fore 1905.—4092.
. Typist, Sydney, own machine, will type
manuscripts for authors, moderate fees.—4o93.
To buy Caricatures, by David Low.—4094.
Information Sought.
(1) Is an ex-serviceman undergoing a course
of initial training at a technical college required
to sit for any examination during such period ?
What happens if he fads at such an examina-
tion? (2) Upon placement in subsidised em-
ployment at the end of his initial training, is it
compulsory for him to take any part-time
course ? (3) Must the trainee join a trade-union ?
(1) No, but his work is supervised, and the
instructors gain information regarding his
chances of success during the first three months
of the course. If, during that period, it-is found
that he would not be a success in the selected
trade, it is suggested that he allow himself to
be placed for re-selection for a more suitable
trade. (2) No, but it is suggested in his own
interests that he continues his technical training
by part-time instruction. There is no with-
' drawal of benefits if he fails in any particular
trade course which he undertakes by this part-
time training. (3) During his initial training he
need not become a member of a union, but on
going into subsidised employment he is then a
normal employee, and must abide by whatever
rules and regulations govern the employment in
that particular field.
* * * *
Recipe for coconut oil soap?
Put 501 b. coconut oil and 501 b. caustic soda
lye into a soap kettle, boil and mix thoroughly
for one to two hours, until the paste gradually
thickens. Then diminish the heat, but con-
tinue stirring until the paste assumes a white,
half-solid mass, then transfer quickly to the
.frames. However, a soap made entirely or pre-
dominantly from coconut oil is unsatisfactory
for most purposes. The glycerides of coconut
oil yield a soap, which, although it possesses a
very good detergent property, dissolves too
rapidly in water. The maximum proportion of
coconut oil usually regarded as permissible for
a toilet-soap is from 10 to 15 per cent. Laundry
soaps and especially rapidly soluble soap flakes
may contain up to 25 per cent, coconut oil.
* * * *
(1) How to build a chimney and fireplace for
a house from cement bricks? (2) Where could
I obtain hand machines for the manufacture of
standard-size cement bricks?
(1) Cement and Concrete Association of Aus-
l4 Spring-street, Sydney, are posting you
a pamphlet entitled “Suggested Specificatipns
for Concrete Masonry Chimneys and Fire-
places.” (2) Truline Brick Machine Co., 84
Henderson-road, Alexandria (N.S.W.), and F.
C. True and A. P. Anderson Stuart, Esther-
street, Surry Hills (N.S.W.).
* * * ♦
(1) Did Johnny Weissmuller ever swim in
races in Australia? (2) What is his height and
weight? (3) What nationality is he?
(1) No. (2) About 6ft. lin.; weight not re-
corded. (3) American.
» * * *
Cl) Are Cecil Pepper and other ex-Australian
cricketers at present in England qualified to play
for England in Test matches; if not. what is
the rule on the prohibition ? (2) Has any player
taken part in Tests for both countries?
(1) Provided they have not played Test cricket
for any country there is no bar to their selec-
tion The Imperial Cricket Conference on July
29 1931 adopted the rule that ‘any player who
has once played in a Test match for any country
shall not afterwards be eligible to play in a
Test match against that country without the
consent of its Board of Control (2) The only
nlaver to rep. for England and Australia was
$f y E Midwinter. He played for Australia m
1876-77 (two matches in Australia), for England
in 1881-82 (four matches in Australia), for
Australia in 1884 (to.rmjjto
and for Australia in 1887-88 (two matenes m
Australia). * *
What are the different divisions in boxing,
and the weight limits of each division.
Flvweight, Bst., or under; bantamweight,
Bst. ' 61b.; featherweight, 9st.; lightweight,
Qst 91b * welterweight, lOst. 71b.; middleweight,
list. 61b. ; fight-heavyweight, 12st. 71b,; heavy-
weight, over 12st. 71b.
What is the cause of my two-year-old white
sulphur-crested cockatoo not growing proper
feathers? Correct diet for the bird!
Young birds, particularly very young ones,
that do not feather properly do so in most cases
because of nutritional troubles. Very young
cockatoos require to be fed daily on a little
coarse maizemeal. Sufficient for one day only
should be parboiled and, when cooled, a little
warm milk and a pinch of very fine grit added
to the meal. A few drops of cod-liver oil
should be added twice weekly. As the bird
grows older, and is able to digest seed, a ma-
ture of one part each of wheat, millet, oats and
cracked corn and 1-16th part of sunflower seed
should be used. Place only enough food m the
cage for the bird’s daily requirements. Most
cockatoos also like a little apple, pear, lettuce,
spinach or green lucerne occasionally, Bhei
grit and a little powdered wood charcoal should
also be placed in the cage.
Brief Answers.
M.H.W.: (1) The following firms might be
interested in purchasing culinary herbs: Stuart
Walker and Co. Pty., Ltd, 174 Clarence-street,
Robert Harper and Go, Ltd, 137 Day-street—
both Sydney; Matthews Thompson and Co,
Ltd, 74 King-street, Newtown (N.S.W.);
Cloverdale Herb Farm, Excelsior-avenue, Castle
Hill (N.S.W.). (2) C. E. Noakes, 26 Hunter-
street, Sydney, could advise regarding medicinal
herbs....P.T.: Suggest that you write to tte
Customs Department, Perth A.S.; Ihe s>.s.
Yongala (1825 tons) foundered between Mackay
and Townsville during a hurricane on March
24, 1911. All lives, 140, were lost. No trace
of her was found... .N.M.8.: Send full par-
ticulars, including size and condition of pictures,
with photographs of them if possible, to John
Young, 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .A.M.:
There is no fixed charge. Costs depend upon
length and technicality of will. If the old firm
are holding your present will you should pick
it up from them and advise them that you are
making a fresh one. It is essential that an
executor be named in a will A.A.: w. u.
Penfold and Co, 88 Pitt-street, Sydney, can
supply Winsor and Newton’s Series 19 one-
stroke lettering brushes in sizes 1 to 6. In pre-
war days these brushes were of sable hair, but
now they are called “war grade”.... .M.N.H..
Submit the MS. to any of the following: Angus
and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street; Dymocfcs
Book Arcade, 424 George-street; Australasian
Publishing Co, 55 York-street; Frank Johnson,
350 George-street—all Sydney; F. W Cheshire,
338 Little Collins-street; Georgian House, 43 f
Bourke-street; Robertson and Mullens, W
Elizabeth-street—all Melbourne.... C.C.: (0
Bertram Flohm, National Mutual Bldg,
George-street; Lawrence Campbell, 2 Martin-
place; Bryson Taylor, 2 Ash-street; and Grace
Stafford, 16 Ash-street—all Sydney. t-
Wembley Furs, 223 Castlereagh-street; M. He -
man, 48 Market-street; and Harvo, 191 Pitt-
street-all.Sydney....CG : See Federal Han-
sard for August 2, 1946, pages. 3599-360..
L.J.; Jack Haines and middleweight lohnn)
Shields met at Sydney Stadium on July -C
1930, when Haines knocked Shields out in
second round M.J.H.: (1) There is ai short-
age of trained female nursing staff m N.b.vv.
and other States. (2) In N.S W. the shortag
is about 1100, as far as public hospitals are
concerned. /. .F.D.M.: Figures were taken from,
an article entitled “Self Educated by Kenneth
Lindsay, Independent M.P, which appeared i-
the London “Observer” and was reprinted in
“Britain,” November, 1945 J.R.. (1) *-
possible to answer without fun particulars. Sug-
eest that you inquire at the Repatriate.
Commission, Melford House, Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne. (2) If you have no' income
other than war pension of £4 5s - J°f fe
and own no property, have no money in in
bank or other assets, you may be ebgibJe
a small amount of service pension to hrm,
your income from all sources up to the
irA allowed JB. C.C.G. and J.C.Y.. "•
have requested the firm to forward you a cop)
of their manual....T.J.Q.: Should find -
market if suitably presented... .R.H.W.. m
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Lands, Melb


Public Notice.
WOULD TOM (BARNEY) BAKER, a shearer, or
anyone knowing his address, please write urgently
R. JUDSON, O/o W. B. FITCHETT, LTD., Adver-
tising Agents, Box 617, Wellington, N.Z.
Missing Friend.
LANIGAN or LANEGHEN, Edward, son of Peter
Laneghen and Bridget Ohere, died at Wellington on
sth February, 1947, and the next-of-kin or any
persons knowing the whereabouts of any next-of-kin
are requested to contact the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19
O’Oopnell Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
No. 297/47 — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM EDWIN MITCHELL the husband of
Phoebe Margaret Mitchell of Wellington in New
Zealand. —TAKE NOTICE that a Petition by your
wife praying for a dissolution of her marriage on the
ground of over three years’ separation has been filed
in the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Wellington
and that unless on or before the expiration of 30
days from the date of publication of this advertise-
ment you file in the said Court an answer to the
petition you will not be entitled to be heard except
on the question of costs and maintenance Further
that until you have given an address for service you
will not be entitled to receive notice of any pro-
ceedings or documents or to address the Court at any
stage A decree for dissolution is made by Decree
Nisi in the first instance and until such Decree Nisi
is made absolute the marriage is not dissolved A
Decree Nisi is not a defence to a charge of bigamy
A copy of the Petition and Notice will be supplied
on application at the Supreme Court at Wellington
in New Zealand. DATED at Wellington this 21st
day of August, 1947. —G. E. POLLOCK, Deputy
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him this advertisement.
GEORGE CECIL KENT is the solicitor for the
Petitioner, whose address for service is at the
offices of MESSIEURS KENT & WEBB, Solicitors,
460 Customhouse Quay, Wellington, New Zealand.
The unforgettable Mile
w
m
■ ...... i
m
m
m
THE steamers that traverse the age-old course of the Nile are
lavishly provided with modern comfort. Restfully at ease on
shaded decks one glides back into the romantic past on a voyage
of fascinating discovery. Frequent landings disclose scenes that
have altered little with the passage of years, and imagination
re-peoples majestic temples as they niust have been in the proud
days of their building. Travellers to Europe are afforded a rare
opportunity of seeing for themselves the treasured records of
Egypt’s ancient civilization. Special Tourist Visas, obtainable in
the British Commonwealth, enable them to break their journey
and enjoy a visit of unusual interest.
Always for the tourist, everywhere, is the cordial Egyptian
welcome. Hotel accommodation is luxurious. Golf, tennis,
swimming, dancing indeed, all the social events that
make life worth living provide a fascinating contrast to
the glories of an earlier era
Special Tourist Visas obtainable in the British Common-
wealth and Empire. Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
LAND OF ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
iP D
Q
V
I
m
m.
Jxsvx-::;-.
Still the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS* WEAR
TROUSERS & SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS, will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
C.M.0.; “Patches” is patchy Wahsme:
Theme admirable; treatment less so M.T.:
And what sort of song have you heard sparrows
singing? F.K.H.: On reading it the Religious
Editor split into three:
G.C.G.: “Hallowed balm” —“from evepy
bower.” Use your own words, not poetic
cliches O.B.S.: None up Stargazer: Gaze
not on stars A.O.; Well, you’re a thinker.
S.E.R.: Four lines, then, of your awful
warning to punters: —
A flutter just for fun may do no harm,
But when it comes to mortgaging the farm
It’s time to take long thoughts and realise
That those who live by racing aren’t your size.
M.K.B.: “Please let that sudden vibrant
creak be the echo of his advancing feet across
the timeless span of waiting day, brooding deep
in melancholy reverie.” What?. ... V.G.: At
least there’s a grin in your kookaburra
F.C.: “Oh, Isabella, come to me.” Try it on
Isabella WJ.W.: Nearly R.C.: Too flat
and antiquated in style—in spite of the dropped
capitals Bellerive; Home in triumph: —
K.McD.: If you get over the tendency to
preach you might get somewhere... .T. 8.5.:
The worm has turned that way too often
W.M.: Abo. parson and his abo. congregation
—weren’t they American negroes in the first
place?... .W.M.C.: Ordinary lovers’ tilt and
ordinary reconciliation A.S.: Try something
more cheerful E.F.: Forget the past if that
is all you can recall R.8.A.: Schoolboy’s
prank told at tedious length K.M.: You
seem to have something to say, but you make
a frightful struggle of trying to say it
E.R.G.D.: Like parts of it; a stronger ending
is needed A.R.C.: Disillusioned bachelor
was last heard grumbling to himself in the
w-P-b W.G.: Time they buried that dead
horse, they’ve been raffling him for years....
C.A.: Newchums who master the worst nags on
the station went out of fashion years ag0....
M.J.: Still wondering who killed Old George—
that is if George way'killed G.R.: Where it
is not oozing platitudes it is involved and
obscure... .G.M.: Saunters along to an uncon-
vincing finish... X.W.: Slushy imitation of
Charles Garvice at his slushiest... .D. 8.5.: No
pay dirt in “The Mountain of Gold” E. 8.:
So that ghost has to rattle his weary bones again.
. ...H.N.: Pity you didn’t study The Bulletin
before sending it all those miles..’. .BJ.F.: We
get scores of screeds like yours W.G.H.:
The darkest and dampest corner of our dungeon
is reserved for dream stories C.P.: Don’t
try to squeeze four tales into one... .W.H.M. :
Neat little twists, but it takes more than that
to open the cashbox.... J.P.; As dreary as a
flapper’s diary... .N.O’C.; Did you get the idea
from grand-dad’s scrapbook? ... .8.R.K.: The
sort of yarn that was written a thousand times
over during the depression years F.E.: The
countryside must be teeming with maidens
clinging to runaway horses N.G.: Frankly,
we are sick and tired of characters who wake
up m the last line... .Y.L.: If you’ll look
F over again you’ll find that you’ve killed
off all the characters... .W.M.: Unmoved by
the spinster’s grief over the death of her
poodle S.N.W.: You’ll have to send “The
Letter” to another address F.A.: That old
tar-and-feather yarn can’t be made new by
covering the villain with treacle and kapok....
L.J.T.: It at least reminded us that we
had to take home a baby bottle of lager....
S.F.G.: Don’t believe any copper would let
the matter drop like that... .M.A.: The Bulle-
tin is not a historical textbook C.McW.:
Too long, too loose, too everything.... A.M.L.:
You make the pursuit of the “only girl in the
world” extremely du11... .D.H.: Did you hear
that thud? It was your “Uninvited Guest”
going out F.N.: Wants a lot more meat on
the bones... .W. 5.8.: Some other paper might
give it space R.J.: That plot has been dished
wp at least 500 different ways since O. Henry
set it down... .G.S.K.: Private opinion on
the workings of Providence only clogs the story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.W.: Damsel looks as if she had been sat
on by an elephant F. 8.: But why clothe
them in corrugated-iron?... .W.C.D.: Went
over all that sea of sepia but couldn’t find the
two Irishmen... .V.P.: Linework resembles
teeth of crosscut saw... .E.H.T.: A joyless little
effort G.L.: Discipline that wandering hand.
. ...D.P.A.: You can’t draw Chifley, and Mrs.
Australia looks like somebody’s faded mother-
in-law R.P.: There’s an improvement, but
there’s still a long journey ahead of y0u....
M.T.: Two of the mouldiest jokes in captivity.
S.L.: Don’t strew your lines about as if
they were dead matches G. 8.8.: No use for
sunsets drawn in red ink on the inside of
cereal packets... .L.J.: Picture of McGirr
asleep on a map of N.S.W. declined F. 8.:
Excellent example of how a political cartoon
should not be done C.C.A.: Tired of look-
ing at that drunk clinging to a lamp-post....
A.T.W.: When last seen, the simpleton in that
gag thought Velasquez was a brand of wine
W.L.8,: It had a fine run in the ’eighties....
F.M.: Can’t judge from copies... .G.P.: If
that’s a tram no wonder people prefer travel-
ling by bus... .J.W.: Feel no affection for your
boneless monsters F.W.F.; Not enlisting
wooden soldiers at present H.W.: Optimistic,
aren’t you? A.T.C.: Not very successful in
handling your solids A.S.J.: Much better (
than most first attempts D.M.: Jerry-built
sketch and a feeble joke... .K. 8.: Well meant,
but you haven’t the cartoonist’s flair for featur-
ing only essentials R.M.: A cruel waste of
ink and paper... .J.J.: Hadn’t time to sort out
the dossers from the blots H.M.: Drawings
arrived in a battered condition. There must be
art critics in the post office... .W.A.: Wasn’t
worth the trouble of pulling the cork out of
the inkpot.
If I could separate the “me” from “I”
And train each day the wish of each, that one
Should do and modulate the “me” of “my”....
Nor sell the soul of “I” that “me” should live,
And emulate the lovely butterfly.
TRAVELS IN A WAGON.
5. —HOMEWARD BOUND.
’Twas early autumn.
At farms sold out,
Homeward we followed
A well-known route.
Peter the dog who
The chief did pride
Was snug and content
By his master’s side.
Within a week we were
On a suburban road.
Travelling towards
An old-fashioned abode.
A family welcome
Hid fondly await
Yours truly the chief,
Mvself and mate.


KILLA T'PIC GEORGE
by GEOFF BINGHAM
FOUR men in the hut. Four men
hunched, their knees drawn up, all
staring at the weak glimmer of the
lamp. This tin, then, is a lamp, the
tin with the hole in the top, and a piece
of canvas tent material drooping through.
It is no match for the brilliant Malayan
moon flooding through the break in the
nippah palm thatch.
Four men mooning, thinking about
everything, for there is more in a prison
than anywhere about which to think.
Yet the four rarely talk about what they
think. They speak in the present, except
when it is to taunt themselves with
memories of good food.
Tony, the one who has his hair cut
short, would to some be laughable to
look at, so large are his eyes, so narrow
his head. But the three have become used
to closely-cropped heads, and two of
them remember Tony when his hair was
black and shiny, curly. In those days
his face had been smooth-skinned with-
out being drawn tightly over bony con-
tours. They do not laugh at Tony.
“Remember Luigi’s?” says Tony, and
the two remember “Luigi’s” because they
nod.
- “A strange name for a Greek,” says
George. George having spent most of
his time with cattle knows few Greek
names, and “Luigi” is not amongst them.
“Omelettes,” says Tony. “He could
make omelettes.”
“He could make omelettes,” says
Harry.
Harry is bigger than Tony, but his
bones are as apparent, or more so, for
Harry is longer in the bones. His skinny
arms weave about his hunched knees.
Harry used to hold a tommy-gun in
those big hands so that it seemed little
more than a pistol.
Only Ben lb Id, who knew not Luigi,
is smooth-fleshed, almost chunky; small
however, and seeming ready to pounce.
“Your Luigi,” he asks, “did he make
good pork?”
There is no need to start at the mention
of pork, for it is hidden away with all the
other dreams for the days to come,
if ever they will come ; if ever, even, they
could come. Hunger is never real in
the final experience. It is pain, and pain
is pain. The thought of hunger is the
more fearsome. Hunger gradually con-
sumes a man, although not always his
spirit,
GEORGE says suddenly, “What do
you know about pork, Ben Hib-
berd?” and Ben lb Id chuckles as though
the secret is his own, but, of course, he
will later tell it.
“Pork with curry, with pepper, with
chillies,” he says shrilly, mingling his
words with his ridiculous laughter.
They watch the lamp, and Ben lb Id
nearly bursts with pride for his friend-
ship with these three men, these Aus-
tralians. Let the others know—his people
back in Java —and they will not believe
him. Friends with the tuans!
“I told them about pork,” Ben lb Id
will say. “About how to cook it with
curry and the chillies. (I had a little
of the salt, not much salt there, you
know).” Ben lb Id has three chillies
in the ragged pocket of his worn green
tunic,
Tony, Harry, and the other large
solemn fellow, George, are staring at the
lamp, the little light that the moon almost
kills. They are too solemn.
George says, surprisingly, “When we
were at Kranji—when the fighting was
on, that is—l killed a chook, and ate both
its legs. You cooked it, Harry, remember,
and you had the breast, eh?”
Harry remembers.- The legs were
thickly plump and white even when
cooked, although the breast had browned
crisply, so much so that it was a trifle
leathery, like cooked newspaper. George
remembers the actual mouthfuls he bit
and chewed. Taste is one thing you
may never remember.
Well, if the moon should withdraw
into itself, inverting and narrowing so
that it becomes only a point of light, not
affecting them, yet would they still sit
and stare at the lamplight.
Food, George thinks, can kill a man’s
spirit if he is not careful. Can make it,*
too, if he is careful. It is not wrong to
want food, to think about it, even. It is
only wrong when you wish to have
another man’s food, or wish you were
man enough, or devil enough, to take it.
All this talk about “Luigi’s”! Luigi, so
calm, so smiling, daintily dispatching the
eggs from the hot iron to the plates, and
then the plates to the tables. And then,
thinks George, what about everyone dis-
patching them to their mouths, their
bellies? Down the hatch.
He looks at Harry’s hands, rough,
calloused with pellagra, and Harry’s eyes,
tired, yet sane. Harry had eaten quietly
and gently at “Luigi’s,” and had been
as thoughtful as he now is, only not so
weary.
“Pork,” says Ben lb Id, “I saw it to-
day. 'Many porks in fact.”
“Ah!” The three faces turn now, the
eyes peer at him. Little Ben lb Id, his
knees tucked under him, his hands clasped
about his chest, holding in the joy which
is.all his own, but about to be imparted.
“Ben Hibberd,” says Harry. “What do
you mean, eh?”
“Three porks,” says Ben lb Id. Oh,
he is happy. He is telling them about
the little porks he saw today. He has
seen porks before, scampering about the
brown legs of his children, but he
scarcely noticed them then, although,
now, when he thinks about it . . . yes.
Perhaps these men think about their little
children. Big George is still ever so
solemn.
“You and your porks,” George says.
“What do you mean?”
Pride, pride swells, and Ben lb Id
clutches himself more. “I saw the porks
down near the vegetable garden. The
big pork and the little ones. They sucked
her. They grow fat that way.” His
hands drawing apart to show how fat
they grow.
“The piggery!” exclaims Tony. “By
God, yes!”
George thinks about the piggery, and
then says “Takahashi,”
"TAKAHASHI! They see him. For
' ever, they think now, his face will be
with them. Then what is for ever?
Takahashi, little man, squat man, strange
man with broad face, with gentle lips,
with a terrible smile in his eyes. The
little runt. The yellow brat. The strange,
silent guard who smiles instead of snarl-
ing. *
“Yes,” says Tony, “Takahashi’d
know.”
. Takahashi knows everything. He looks
as though he knows nothing. Four men
afraid of Takahashi. Three fighters. Ben
lb Id afraid also. His joy dies from his
eyes. He unclasps himself, but looks at
George.
“You killa t’pig, Chorge?” he says
plaintively.
“Porks! Pigs! I saw the pigs,” says
Harry suddenly. “By hell I did. I saw
the little beggars. They were nudging
the tapioca that grows over near the
piggery. I saw one of their snouts, their
little pink snouts. They’d make a great
feed, only you’d never get one.”
Takahashi would know. Takahashi
mightn’t know.
“If you could get some tapioca,” says
George to Harry, “and you could get
some sweetbucks, Tony, and if Ben
Hibberd could do the cooking . . .”
“Do the cooking,” gulps Ben lb Id,
gladly. “I have curry and pepper,” he
announces shrilly. He pulls chillies from
his pocket, three chillies, long and red.
“I shall make a fine meal.”
George suddenly discovers he has a
store of spirit. Why do they sit crouched
around this little lamp? Why are they
hunched and sad and hungry and why
do they think, perpetually think? The
pigs that nudged. He can see their pink
noses, as easily as if he were Harry
watching wonderingly. Twinkle, twinkle,
little nose.
“To-morrow night?” says Tony.
“To-night,” says George. He knows
that all to-morrow they will be working
in the hill, and
thinking. They will
rest on their chun-
kels and look down
at the vegetable
patch. They will be
wondering if and
when it will come
off. Sick with excite-
ment they will be-
come, and then Tony may work himself
into another malarial fit, which he can
so easily do.
“You get the,vegetables, you two,” he
says, “and I’ll get the pig.”
“You killa t’pig, Chorge,” says Ben lb
Id excitedly. He claps himself in joy and
fear. He worships George and all his
quiet ways.
When they go he cannot stay still,
long, in the hut. He moves around,
hunched, crouched, holding his belly,
fearfully evading the brilliant patch of
moonlight. He keeps fingering his chillies,
looking down at them, lifting them to his
eyes, looking at them nervously. His
thoughts of the brown children are for-
gotten. He bites his nails, clutches and
releases himself, and moves and fumbles
with the chillies.
Tony and Harry go together, and it
is like crawling through the night again,
with the,enemy ahead. It is like blotting
out a misty suffering, clothing lean
shanks and bony arms with good flesh,
and the spirit with eagerness. The enemy
is anywhere this time. Takahashi is
the enemy, on guard.
As they crawl there is no clattering
of guns, no brittle noise of firing, no
fearful excitement. Only the quick
measured tread upon the guard’s catwalk.
No rifle in the hands, no bayonet. No
defence at all. The guard shouts in the
distance, but that does not matter, it is
in the distance.
There are no pigs by the tapioca,
George sees. The piggery fs a stilted row
of pickets, washed in moonlight, and in-
side the pickets sleep the big pig and the
little “porks.” The old sow is whining,
her breath in long uneasy drawls. The
moonlight is oilily over the little pigs and
the large black sow. Funny, little Ben
Hibberd saying, “Killa t’pig, Chorge.”
Frightened little Ben Hibberd. The busi-
ness of food.
TONY and Harry in the vegetable
patch almost freeze with horror,
and they are weaker than their unsteady
limbs. The little pig screams and screams,
and his yelling must be heard every-
where. George swears and throws the
thing blindly, hitting it against the fence.
He had meant to catch it by its hard
little mouth, hold in its alarm, bash it on
the head, again and again,
if need be, with the large
goolie in his hand. Now he
hits it hard against the
fence, swinging it angrily un-
til it stops squealing, ceases
jerking, and lies still, then
occasionally convulsing.
George stands still, ex-
pecting them to come at
any moment, and there is
no fear, for that has died.
He feels 'calm, and can
almost hear the bells again,
as he heard them many a Sunday even-
ing, calm about their own business in a
half-empty city. No bells, however, and
no Nips running, no shouts and no angry
cries.
He walks, trembling a bit, toward the
hut. He crosses the double fence of
barbed wire, and he does not know that
behind him Harry and Tony are as filled
with terror as he when the pig screamed.
They forgot that pigs often scream, for
it is long now since the time when they
first begai* to think that all suffering was
directed towards them.
“You killa t’pig, Chorge!” Ben lb Id
is small and afraid, is wide-eyed in in-
credulity. Awed he embraces himself,
but not with joy. “You killa t’pig!” He
almost whispers that.
“You killed it, then,” says Tony. He
stands at the door of the hut, and holds
his stomach, as though in pain. Perhaps
the tapioca, more than the fear, is a
terrible burden. Food for everyone —a
limp pig, and sweetbucks in Harry’s
shirt.
Ben lb Id hastens. He lights a small
fire, making sure the twigs blaze and
have no smoke, and that the blaze is
guarded by a tin surround, and then he
hurries the water to the boil, and plunges
the pig in the largest of his many pots.
With his knife he scrapes and scrapes,
taking off the hair, making the body
smooth and white, clean and smooth.
George and Tony and Harry watch
him, breathing heavily because they can
only believe this is a dream. They have
forgotten, almost, what meat tastes like.
Yet there is the truth with them that the
guards may have heard. They cannot
believe Takahashi did not hear. They
know he heard, but they cock a finger at
fate and Takahashi. They watch Ben lb
Id slit the belly and draw out the guts,
laying the blue mess tenderly aside.
He puts the pig, whole, into his con-
coction of water and condiments. Each
spoonful of curry is lovingly measured,
served into the belly of the pot. _ He
crouches and stirs. It seems he is stirring
for ever, before the smell comes, and
the smell makes them start, almost, and
they stare at Ben lb Id, and at the pig
gently boiling, humping in the pot so
that its white back often shows:
George begins to forget about the pig
screaming, and himself standing there,
waiting for Takahashi or one of the
little runts to come.
Ben lb Id seems to have forgotten
them all. He peels potatoes slowly and
thoughtfully, dropping pieces into the
pot as though just at their appointed time
and not a second out. He stirs and
droops, droops and stirs.
The smell must be all over the camp.
And what if the others do smell it?
They will think the Nips are having a
spree. The little yellow fellows can have
pigs, the men will think, and that will be
all to it. They, for their part, will try
to sleep through the terrible smell.
Remembering places like “Luigi’s,” they
will try to fail asleep. Others will wonder
when it is all going to end.
They can hear Takahashi’s footsteps
come right up to the door. The moon
dulls, about that moment, and the silver
on the floor fades. Takahashi sees the
fire, and Ben lb Id over it, and the
strained faces of the merf who are almost
sick with hunger and thought. His
rifle crashes to the floor and the bayonet
rattles. . .
HE stands, smiling, in the doorway.
Ben lb Id turns and stares up at
Takahashi. He remains crouching,
primitive and afraid. Takahashi smiles
squarely and nods, and the men stand
and bow, knowing it is all a farce, that
'Takahashi knows everything, that he
heard, and has waited.
All Takahashi has to do is to turn
on his heel and go marching to the
Commandant’s office. They will hear
his tread on the hard catwalk. Then the
guard will come marching down the
same catwalk, and take them to Kana-
moto, and Kanamoto will blaze in anger
and bash them, and then put them in a
closer prison, and there will be lights in
the camp and shouting and everyone will
turn out, and officers will be running
here and there, whilst fear will be at
large again, larger than it was before,
and the sick men, helpless upon their
beds, will wonder, and finally the tale
will be told, distorted and enlarged, but
such a tale cannot be distorted, nor.
perhaps, enlarged. It is all distorted, this
hunger business, this killing a little pig.
Nevertheless Takahashi keeps smiling,
and he returns the bow, ever so slightly,
and he goes over to the pot, and smiles
as he sees the pig. He bends down,
prods the white cooked flesh with his
bayonet, and then draws the pig from the
pot, stuck through by his bayonet, its
body curved like a bow, its legs sticking
outwards. The white steam wreathes
about it in the firelight.
“Pig,” says Takahashi, summing up the
whole event. He looks straight at George.
“You kill, eh?” he asks.
George stares at him a moment, then
nods.
Ben lb Id, mouths, over and oyer
agaih* without articulation. “You killa
t’pig, Chorge!”
o Continued on page 32.)


Wx:Wx
Wm m* m
ill
■m
1
xsSx
MM
S««*
viWs : S : X*v :
m
,' ;:, ■
■B
iiiil
m
W gfi
llillMiiiiiiii
|||| ' r .''' .
mi
mm
m
>y>:«
- iiiiii
>*c>
ss®Sra* :•;;**;
.:■ V ■
cwSfcs
MgSW
X&£&<
' SflM
Every Landing—a 28-ton smack in the face!
For the passengers it’s smooth.
So smooth that it’s difficult to tell
whether the big plane is still in
the air or actually on the ground.
For the tyres it’s a different story.
When a 28-ton “Skymaster” smacks
down on the runway at 90 miles
an hour, the tyres and hydraulic
landing gear have to take the full
impact—smoothly and safely. To
take such terrific punishment with
every landing seems too much to
expect of any tyre. Dunlop “Sky-
master” tyres, such as those illustrated
above, can take it only because
they’re built specially for the job.
And here’s how it came about :
When airline operators first introduced
“Skymaster” aircraft to Australia
they arranged for spare tyres to
come from overseas. At that time,
no airplane tyre of the size and
specification required, was made here.
Then, with very little warning, spares
became almost unprocurable and the
big “Skymasters” looked like being
grounded indefinitely—until Dunlop
stepped in.
By a concentrated effort, in the face
of difficult conditions, Dunlop made
the moulds and necessary equipment
. . . produced the huge 14 ply Rayon
Cord, hand constructed tyres called
for, in time to meet the emergency.
Since then, Tyres built by Dunlop
—leaders in the Rubber Industry—
have been regularly used on the
Skymaster routes of
Australia! ;.r*
m
m
DUNLOPa
"fliS Unctustty
A FARMER AT HEART
BY LES ROBINSON
MR. Giblett—it annoyed him always
when anybody pronounced the
name as though giving an order
to a poulterer, for he maintained,
sometimes with vehemence, that the G
was hard, as in gas or gherkin, not
soft like a fowl’s innards—was never, by
inclination, -an indoor man at all, at
least he imagined he wasn’t, and, while
employed as a clerk, repeatedly told
people so.
He was rarely as well, in his own esti-
mation, as he ought to have been.
“Too much sitting down and not
enough exercise. No one,” he’d say, “lead-
ing a life of that kind could expect to
be well. Some- men,” he’d add, “though
compelled by circumstances over which
they have no control to earn a livelihood
in the city are farmers at heart.”
Very often, in his opinion, the parents
were to blame. They should never put
boys who, it was obvious, were intended
for an outdoor existence into offices.
If they did, their sons, like him, would
be square pegs in round holes all their
lives.
<< K| OW take my life,” Mr. Giblett,
1 'I in a voice saturated with self-pity,
would continue. “The best part of it has
been spent, or rather frittered away, you
might say, between four walls. If only
my parents had studied my tendencies
a little more, when I was a youngster,
they’d have apprenticed me to a farmer
instead of letting me drift to the city, and
I’d have been very much healthier, far
more prosperous, and a happier man to-
day.”
“Once let me get out of this infernal
office,” he’d say in a very determined
tone of voice, “and I’ll turn my back
on the city for good and all.”
, Then he’d commence to talk at length
about his latest craze, asparagus culture,
or whatever, at the time, it happened to
be. With great forethought, upon which
he prided himself, he was buying a few
acres of land in the country, on time-
payment, so that he would have some-
where to spend what he was in the habit
of referring to as his “declining years,”
but what those who knew him better than
he knew himself predicted, confidently,
would be his “reclining” ones.
For a year or so, beekeeping had been
uppermost in his mind and he could think
or talk of nothing else. He bought
textbooks on it and attended lectures by
experts. Then, for some unexplained
reason (perhaps a bee stung him), his
enthusiasm died and he became keen on
fowls instead.
For varying periods, after fowls too
ceased to interest him, he had visions of
going in for fruit and vegetable culture,
mushroom - and flower - growing, pig- -
farming, the breeding of goats, goldfish,
canaries, budgerigars, racing-dogs, and
goodness only knows what else besides.
Owing to circumstances over which
he himself had no control—it was during
the depression that always seems to follow
a, W ar —Mr. Giblett, greatly to his
chagrin, was, though still bale and hearty,
forced into retirement much sooner than
he expected to be.
Now wholly free to devote himself to
whatever out-door occupation appeared to
him to be most advantageous, he, for a
while, after his indignation subsided, en-
joyed himself as much as a man might
who, after serving a long sentence, had
been released from goal. His zest for
things rural waned somewhat, however.
FOR a long while, the daily paper
helped as much as anything else to
ruin his chances of becoming successful
as a primary producer. It was delivered
with the milk and the bread, about eleven
o’clock in the morning, as a rule, and
its arrival was the signal for him to
refrain from further effort, if making
any, in order to relax on a couch, or
in an armchair, and acquaint himself with
the doings of the busy world.
Then several of the neighbors acquired
wireless sets and it was not long before
Mr, Giblett became smitten by the craze.
Ever rabid, once really keen on any-
thing, he gave his wife no peace until
she withdrew, one by one, her objections
to buying a set. She didn’t think the
expenditure justified, as their savings had
nearly all been frittered away by him
on divers profitless and, in some cases,
expensive agricultural, horticultural and
other rash experiments.
She realised also, knowing her husband
so well and despite his assurances to the
contrary, that, if they once bought a
wireless the many things that needed
doing so badly would, unless they were
done by her, remain undone indefinitely.
That, however, didn’t matter to Mr. Gib-
lett.
He had made up his mind to buy a
set and nothing was going to stop him.
He had decided, furthermore, that it was
going to be a larger set and louder
than the neighbors possessed. He wanted
to go one better always than anyone
else.
He was as excited as a schoolboy when,
the preliminaries, which tried his patience
sorely, having been arranged, the multi-
valved superhet he had selected stood at
last in a corner of the sitting-room. But,
alas, it soon became apparent that, as
Mrs. Giblett had foreseen, wireless was
going to monopolise her husband’s time
entirely.
The fuel box was empty and she had
a lot of cooking to do. Would he fill it
for her?
“Oh, leave it till tomorrow,” he’d say,
impatiently. “The reception was not as
good last night as it should have been.
I think the aerial is too slack. I’m going
((Continued on page 32.)


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householder s’.
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
WEIGHT
APPROX.
4i TONS
The “MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY.
MARS MACHINE
TOOL MEG. CO. PTY. LTD.
dfg
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
Ilf q-’land OF
MEEHANITE
METALS
HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American, African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COULD UNCLE SAM BACK OUT?
tt According to a forthright article by
“Heptisax,” a particularly sound peri-
odical contributor to N.Y. “Herald
Tribune,” the tremendous change in U.S.
relations with Soviet Russia has the all-
out endorsement of the general run of
Americans;
Anyone who has lately gone up and down
the highways of the U.S. nosing into the
impromptu forums of “the common man” (of
whose thinking no one knows less than Henry
Wallace) must have been impressed' by the
angry and feverish thinking started by Mr.
Truman’s appeal to the Congress for aid to
the Greeks and Turks. The approval of that
policy is grudging and conditional. For the
Greeks, as for the Finns, we have a sentimental
regard. But if this is just the beginning of an
everlasting _ outpouring of good American
money to buy inefficient frustration of Soviet
policy over Heaven knows how long a period,
isn’t it beneath our dignity as a he-man nation?
Instead of paying little peoples, who have suf-
fered plenty, to buck the Kremlin for us,
would it not be better for us to do one of
- two things—have a showdown with Moscow
or get out and drop our own iron curtain
around this big oasis in a world-wide abomina-
tion of desolation? So asks “the common
man.”
The argument against thy; latter course, the
argument against withdrawal into our own
shell while the rest of the world slides into
whatever depths of savagery and misery it likes,
which carries weight in your street-corner
forum, is not one backed ,by either the
economists or the humanitarians. Hie argu-
ment that carries weight is that such a re-
treat is just what Moscow wants and is working
for. They think that we have no consistent
overseas policy, that we will soon tire of adven-
tures abroad, that the pressure that “mom”
brings on Congress to get her boy home is
symptomatic of our attitude toward overseas
undertakings, and that they can wear us down
and get us out of the way.
My strong impression, is that the one big
reason why there has been no marked reversion
toward isolationism in this country is that the
man in the street is determined .that Uncle Joe
Stalin shall not have the satisfaction of viewing
our backs in retreat.
Certainly our people do not want war. But
right at this moment there is a huge body of
Americans who feel that, in a choice between
evils, war is not the worst.., .They would give
a lot to see the world conundrum solved with-
out another call for their personal, physical
intervention. But if Uncle Sam must pour
out vast sums every year to feed people who
cannot support themselves because Russia is
draining off reparations, or promoting internal
trouble for them, or blocking international
action that would get them going again, maybe
it would be a good thing to take a crack at
them. So says “the common man,” as the
failure of conference after conference and dis-
cussions of big appropriations to back American
policy abroad convince him that Soviet Russia
is making a very unpleasant joke of the victory
he helped to win.
This is a position which the angry plain
citizen takes because the only alternatives which
he has contemplated are those of abandoning
the whole world to the Soviet Union, which he
is even less ready to do than he was to abandon
it to the Axis, or that of smacking the Red
Bear back on his haunches.
The Congress Hurdle
A trouble with public opinion is that
it is notoriously fickle, as the varia-
tions in Gallup polls clearly show.
And American public opinion has hot
been faced with any such clear-cut issue
as “smacking the Red Bear back on his
haunches.” That is, not directly, by
physical action. The method is the in-
direct one of achieving the same end
by the economic means involved in the
“Truman doctrine” of aid to countries
resisting Russian aggression, and in that
doctrine’s extension, the Marshall plan
of aiding European recovery by advanc-
ing dollars on the basis of countries be-
ing able to help themselves and each
other-.
The necessary American backing for
that method of resisting Russia appears
to be not quite so certain as “Heptisax’s”
reading of American public opinion would
suggest. Strong trends against the whole
scheme have been showing up in the
quarter that most matters —in Congress
—and the fact that a Presidential election
is looming ahead makes Congressional
action over the next 12 months no safe
matter for prediction.
Representatives of the 16 European
countries participating have shown them-
selves well aware of the Congress hurdle.
That was one reason why their report,
the “deadline” for which had been
September 1, was not completed on time.
A N.Y. “Times” correspondent in Paris
reported that, having set down their re-
quirements and totted up the costs, they
found that these came to $29,200,000,000
for the next four years, “and even at this
figure Europe would not be free of com-
modity deficits by the year 1951.”
They were “alarmed at the figure,” as
they well might have been. “They were
reported to have cut that estimate quickly
when told that the United States Con-
N.Y. “Herald Tribune."
“Like One That on a Lonesome Road
Doth Walk in Fear and Dread....”
gress would be shocked by a request for
so large a sum.”
A Marshall difficulty was that he could
not ask Congress to endorse his European
plan till he found out from the partici-
pating countries what their requirements
would be and what they proposed to do
for each other, and at the same time he
could not definitely assure those coun-
tries in advance of what Congress would
finally agree to. That is still very much
in the air. It will call for a Republican
majority endorsement of a Democrat
President’s policy, further complicated by
the fact that the policy represents a com-
plete break with American, and particu-
larly Republican, tradition, and also by
the fact that the President is campaign-
ing for re-election.
New Isolationism
Some ominous signs have already been
reported by close observers in Washing-
ton.
A correspondent there of “Christian
Science Monitor” has noted that “the
Soviet propaganda machine daily warns
that the Marshall plan will enslave
Europe, that Washington is buying their
[European countries’] sovereignty with
dollars, that the United States will not
carry out its promises of adequate aid,
anyway.” The correspondent commented
on prevailing “Congressional inertia” as
inviting the Soviet strictures, and stated:
“Congress does not appear to share the
Secretary of State’s sense of the urgency
of his aid proposal.”
More than “inertia” has been noted by
the same paper’s chief Washington repre-
sentative, Roscoe Drummond:
Bolder and more outspoken isolationism is
revealing itself in Congress today....As a re-
sult of the 1944 elections the isolationist forces
suffered an overwhelming setback, and what
remained went underground. For three yars
their role has been small and their influence
slight in Congress. But now the voices of
isolationism, particularly ecoaomic isolationism,
are beginning to be raised in stronger tones.
They are still in the great minority, but it is
evident the time is at hand to attempt openly
to check a foreign policy which rests on the
premise that the United States must live with
the world as well as in the world.
An even more ominous report has
been made by a N.Y. “Times” Washing-
ton correspondent. Referring to the re-
currence of isolationism, this correspon-
dent stated that the Truman Administra-
tion “has had to back away from major
policy decisions for fear of producing a
premature and disastrous showdown”
with Congress. On the “new” isola-
tionism the correspondent reported: —•
In substance, it is an unwillingness (in greatly
varying degree) to expend more of United States
solicitude, effort or dollars in the redemption
of Europe or the rest of the world. This atti-
tude stems variously from frustration over the
many failures at international co-operation
which have occurred since the war; an abiding
distrust of Russia, which is viewed as the
übiquitous stumbling block to all efforts to date,
or a deep-seated prejudice against the whole
concept of our collaborating politically in Euro-
pean affairs.
The “new isolationism,” apparently, has eco-
nomic rather than geographical roots. It is
postulated on the pessimistic assumption that
Europe probably can’t be saved anyway, and
that U.S. efforts to do so are but a recrudes-
cence of that futile and wasteful doctrine of
“do-goodism” which is distastefully identified
in many Republican minds with the New Deal.
One expression of that reviving isola-
tionism is that “Secretary Marshall, whose
name has been as nearly sacrosanct as
any in Washington, has been subjected
of late to increasingly sceptical and even
hostile questioning by various Congres-
sional committees.” The correspondent
comments that “the general truculence of
Congress on foreign policy matters is
disturbing. The question is: Does Con-
gress accurately reflect the temper of the
country?”;
.Tie White House and the State Department
wish very much that they knew. The guesses
are almost equally divided. Some Republican
spokesmen assert that in the Middle West, par-
ticularly, 60 to 80 per cent, of the voters, if
be polled today, would say in effect:
lo hell with Europe and its troubles. Let’s
settle our own problems and let them settle
men's. To a lesser degree they think this point
or view is shared generally in regions west of
the Eastern Seaboard.
Most Democrats take a different view of the
nation s mood. They contend that except in
the strongholds of pre-war isolationist senti-
ment the country is ready to back the Presi-
dent and Secretary Marshall to the fullest. They
think the Republicans have badly misjudged
public sentiment.
Congress Scepticism
Just as Congress was adjourning one
Washington correspondent made some
brisk comparisons between it and the
European countries looking its way in
hope; “The mood in Europe is tense,
that of Washington is casual; Europe
wonders when it will eat, Congress when
it will get home ; Europe is holding its
breath, Congress is holding its hat.”
A Washington “Post” correspondent
asserted; “The blunt facts are that the
Republican party in Congress is badly
split on the main questions of foreign
policy and that it contains a large and
hard isolationist core. This group con-
tains some determined and wily poli-
ticians who can be relied upon to keep
on trying to break up the so-called bi-
partisan front” supporting the Truman-
Marshall plans.
“Life,” also, has reported that “scepti-
cism has recently replaced much of the
early enthusiasm for the Marshall plan,
both in and out of Congress,” with Secre-
tary Marshall’s visits to Congressional
quarters meeting with “an increasingly
prickly welcome.” Enthusiasm will not
be rekindled by such happenings as the
coal strikes in Britain. Work —self-help
in Europe figures prominently in
American thinking on the aid plan. As
stated by “Life”:
In Congress sentiment seems to be running
along the following lines. An implemented
Marshall plan should wind up all purely relief
outlays by a foreseeable date; none of the new
money voted should go to Russia or to waste;
all of it should go for machinery and equipment
to revive European production and put the con-
tinent to work, and there should be some U.S.
entree or supervision of the process, some quid
pro quo.
Stating that “these Congressional con-
ditions are surely no more than common-
sense,” “Life” added:
The overriding objective of the Marshall plan
is and should be the revival of Europe, start-
ing in the West. It may be difficult for some
Europeans to realise how unmixed, how altru-
istic even, is this American aim. To most
of us, European revival through unity is not
merely a means of “containing Russia”; it is
an overwhelmingly sensible idea for its own
sake. We may haggle over details, special
privileges and guarantees. But the quid pro
quo we really want is simply this: that Europe
will be rebuilt intd a going concern.
“The better and bolder the ideas
Europe comes up with for saving itself
now,” “Life” commented, “the more
generous is likely to be the American
response.” N.Y. “Journal of Commerce”
put it; “The American people are tired
of handing out billions in charity—they
will not feel the same about turning over
larger sums to* implement a programme
that really promises to restore sound,
prosperous European economy.”
Indicating the prevailing uncertainty,
the Democratic leader Senator Hatch re-
cently declared: “I think it’s time
every member of Congress was put
on the spot to show where he Stands —
that he’s either for international co-
operation or that he’s against it. The
sooner we clear the atmosphere on this,
the better. We’ll know where we stand.”
A good many more would like to know
that, too ; particularly in the European


RtUtf
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health- Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder., S3J
|OINTMEN|
ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S
BOOK SELECTION
AUTOBIOGRAPHY, by Neville Cardus.
As a writer on both cricket and music Neville Cardus has achieved
a reputation which is perhaps without parallel. Illustrated.
12/6 (post. 4d.).
HOW TO BECOME A CHAMPION AT BOWLS.
Accepted text book of the game from every angle. A complete course
of instruction, compiled by R. T. Harrison ( Boomerangs^), many
years editor Sydney ‘'Referee” Bowls page. Illustrated throughout.
10/6 (post. 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A large percentage of economic waste is
caused by the destruction of property by FIR®,
while such waste cannot be eliminated, the
individual can avoid financial devastation by
making adequate use of the valuable and
necessary service rendered to the community
by Insurance Companies.
The prompt service given enables reconstruc-
tion to commence immediately, and is the
means of restoring to the workers employment
which might otherwise be lost to them.
The Australian public has been brought to
realise that the support of Australian indus-
tries by every individual is helping the country
generally to right its difficulties, but continued
patronage is necessary in order to reduce our
country’s “total indebtedness ’ and thus speed
the return to prosperity and financial stability.
FOR
68
Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co,, Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FI RE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
countries depending on U.S. aid being
forthcoming. The requirements of those
countries, the N.Y. “Times” man insists,
will have to be “presented to Congress
in terms of the most compelling neces-
sity.”
Even then there could be dangerous
delay. The great question still remains,
as the same newspaper has put it: “Will
the United States Congress, controlled by
Republicans and pledged to economy,
vote enough money to turn the Marshall
plan into a concrete programme? The
answer will come only after months or
study and debate by the legislators them-
selves —and their constituents at home.
There will be special Congress hearings
next month, with the possibility of a
special session before the end of the
year. A good deal will depend on the
persuasiveness (or otherwise) of the 18
Congressmen who have been personally
inspecting Europe with the Marshall plan
in mind. Another telling factor is likely
to be the estimate that if nothing is done,
American exports will drop next year by
$5 billion, and “a programme of $5 bil-
lion a year in foreign aid would offset
this loss, help keep the American
economy running at its present record
pace.”
Present betting is that that line of
argument will be decisive, but there will
still be doubt till the money is actually
yoted.
“TIMES” THUNDER.
Like “S.M. Herald” since the Chifley
Government started hovering with a vul-
ture eye on the trading banks, London
“Times” has been in the painful
throes of lambasting its sacred joss. In
something resembling the voice that used
to thunder anathema at the Attlees’ fore-
runners, it has cried out in the opening
sentence of a leader:
Never has a Ministry fallen so far short of
pent-up expectations on so many successive
occasions as Mr. Attlee’s Government.
“The time has arrived,” the Thunderer
said, “)for protest”;
Inevitably the standard of life in coming
months will be worse than the official admis-
sions have so far recognised. Inevitably the
course of sales abroad will fall short of the
nation’s necessity while the nation’s coalminers
continue to withhold their outright efforts, what-
ever the reasons.
Referring grimly to “the lean winter
months ahead,” when “the diet, supply of
fuel and standard of life. ...will be
gravely below reasonable needs,” the
article added:
Yet “the positive side of the [Government’s]
programme” remains as undecided as it was last
February; it is still a matter for interminable
negotiation with the’ trade-unions, from which
not even an agreement about longer hours and
larger output in the coal pits has yet come.
That this is a national emergency is plain
enough from the admitted dearth of dollars,
and therefore of dollar goods, throughout the
Commonwealth and Empire. Yet nothing at all
is said about the necessity, whatever economic
theory may advise, to link more closely than
ever before the productive and constructive
energies of the British Nations. Nothing is said
at home of the parallel and still more insistent
necessity to curtail to an irreducible minimum
the demands upon , national resources, for
worthy and unworthy requirements 'alike, which
whittle away national wealth and strength. No-
thing in detail or exact amount is proclaimed
to justify the earlier claim that resources of
man-power, material and plant will now be
fixed upon the first and paramount task of
putting the national accounts into balance and
bridging the gap, both in home production and
in the balance of trade, between demand and
supply. Nothing is said either about the phy-
sical suppression of wasteful activities or about
the incessant inflationary pressure which breeds
and encourages such activities.
While holding that “there has been far
too much pessimism about Britain’s
future,” and that “there is no reason why,
if the right steps are taken, a fresh foun-
dation cannot now be laid,” the article
concluded:
But the preface must be a real programme
of retrenchment and effort, and the Government
still shows little sign that such a programme
has yet been contrived and agreed.
It should, perhaps, in fairness be
pointed out that a great deal of American
criticism of Britain’s recovery effort,
though more bluntly stated, has been on
those same lines.
ARMY NEUROTICS.
Dr. William C. Menninger, who was
pyschiatrist consultant to the U.S. Army
Surgeon General, has reported that “war-
time discharges of U.S. Army personnel
on neuropsychiatric grounds was greater
than the total for infections, heart,
stomach, respiratory, eye, ear, nose and
throat ailments, genito-urinary troubles,
tuberculosis and venereal disease.
“For every man medically discharged,”
he added, “there is statistical evidence
that at least five other men were seen
by a psychiatrist for some type of person-
ality disorder which did not lead to dis-
charge. In addition, 150,000 soldiers were
discharged through administrative, rather
than medical, channels because of per-
sonality difficulties. It surely reflects the
fact that Army life was difficult and
exacting, and that our way of living had
not prepared many American youths for
such demands. It probably indicates a
critical state of affairs of the American
family. The picture we saw in the Army
must exist in modified form in civilian
Minneapolis “Morning Tribune.”
PICKET FENCE.
life, since our soldiers were primarily
civilians. In any event, it presents a
major challenge to American medicine,
upon which the health, both mental and
physical, of our people depends.”
America, however, hasn’t that on its
own, as would probably be shown if
Australia was frank enough to publish
like figures, 5r as anyone can find out
personally by trying to make an appoint-
ment with a qualified psychiatrist. The
tobacco queues are nothing.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
U.S. Wants Friendly Japan. —Frank comment
by a N.Y. “World-Telegram” correspondent re-
porting from Tokyo: “The question of Japan’s
economy would not seem of such great con-
cern abroad were it not for the fact that the
U.S. Government views a friendly and stable
Japan as an inestimable aid to the United States
in dealing with Russia. General MacArthur
once called Japan ‘either a powerful bulwark for
peace or a dangerous springboard for war.’ ’
* * * *
Pertinax Socked.— An old friend of the ful-
minating pre-war days, “Pertinax” (then as
well known even as Madame Tabouis), has been
heard of again. In a letter to N.Y. “Times”
J. Lemaigre Dubreuil, of Paris, has stated:
“M. Pertinax has accused me in his book The
Grave Diggers of having collaborated with the
Germans, and particularly of having furnished
supplies to General Rommel’s army. These
imputations were all the more fantastic by
reason of the fact, well known to numerous
high-ranking persons in the U.S., that my
efforts were not wholly useless in the prepara-
tion of the American landing in North Africa.
Therefore M. Dubreuil went M. Pertinax tor
damages, and got ’em —100,000 francs.
* * * *
Japan Democratised. —An odd sort of com-
ment on present Japan, considering its source,
is quoted by “United Nations World” from a
new Tokyo monthly, “Horitsu Taimusu” (the
“Law Times”). “Horitsu Taimusu” states that
if Japan’s war dead were to come out of their
graves, they would be “utterly amazed” at the
complete change from a total militarism to a
total democracy. It adds: “Would they not
also see that a people who can be so easily
changed in toto could become a militaristic
nation again just by a change at the steering
wheel?”
* * * *
Canberra Protests on Japan. —A Tokyo corre-
spondent of N.Y. “World-Telegram” has given
reason enough for Canberra objections falling
on deaf ears in the U.S. Mentioning that Aus-
tralia had “protested bitterly” because General
MacArthur permitted the Japs to operate a
phosphate plant on Angaur Island in the Palau
group (“an island captured by U.S. troops”),
the correspondent added: “This was done to
provide Japan with fertiliser to increase food
production and reduce the amount of food the
United States must give Japan. Still more pro-
tests were registered because U.S. allowed the
Japanese to go on a whaling expedition—during
which time products were obtained which would
have cost the United States $21,000,000 to
supply.” Canberra evidently overlooked saying
it would be happy to foot the bills.
* * * *
Struggle for China. —After spending six
months in China for the U.S. State Department,
Nathaniel Peffer, in an article in “Harper’s,”
holds the Kuomintang largely responsible for
the strength of the Chinese Communists. The
governing group has, he declares, repelled be-
yond recall “young men of vigor and idealism,”
who have turned to the other side “in many
cases regretfully and as a last resort —often not
because of the Communist philosophy, but in
spite of it”: “They would be followed by many
more, if it were not for a widespread fear of
terrorism of another brand and, still more, fear
of Russian expansionism. If the Russians had
not been shortsighted, if they had not insisted
on the restitution of their old imperialistic pos-
sessions in Manchuria and had they not looted
the industrial properties there, the Communist
movement would be far stronger in China today
than it is. There is in progress a kind of in-
verted struggle for possession of China. Chiang
Kai-shek, the Kuomintang and the present
ruling class are doing all they can to throw
China into the arms of Communism, while
Russia is doing everything it can to keep China
in the grip of a kind of native Fascism. It is,
not easy to say which will succeed.”
* *' * *
Germans in France— About as telling a com-
ment as could be made on Germany is in the
number of German war prisoners opting to
stay in France as “free workers” under a one-
year contract —90,000 out of 200,000 who re-
plied to the invitation. Regarding the rest of
the 468,000 total, London “Times” Paris corre-
spondent has reported: “Whilst a number of
prisoners probably have no intention of ever
replying, it is known that many of the remain-
ing 268,000 are waiting to see how their more
enterprising comrades fare before making their
choice.” The correspondent further reported:
“Assimilation has proved surprisingly easy up
to now* especially in the country districts,
where large numbers of the prisoners have
formed attachments with French girls and have
constant contact with the families of the farmers
for whom they work. One fact emerges from
the prisoners’ letters which gives food for
thought: those who seem to be happiest are
living in French zones where the man was a
prisoner or a compulsory worker in Germany
during the last war.”
* * * *
The Terror in India.— Giving some details
of the horrors committed in the Sikh rising and
other disorders in India, a London “Times”
correspondent has quoted as the universal com-
ment of experienced officers: “A thousand times
more horrible than anything we saw during the
war.” The correspondent added: “The Sikhs
will tell you that' this is retaliation for what
the Muslims did to the Sikhs in Rawalpindi in
March —which was retaliation for Hindu mas-
sacres of Muslims in Bihar, which was retalia-
tion for Noakali, which was retaliation for Cal-
cutta. So it goes back, violence begetting
violence. But even India has never seen any-
thing worse than this present orgy.”
* * * *
Future Control of Japan. —While insisting on
an early peace treaty for Japan and the end
of occupation, General MacArthur, as authori-
tatively reported by “Christian Science Monitor”
editor Erwin D. Canham, does not have in
mind any sudden end of effective supervision.
Taking for granted American holding of
Okinawa and military control from there, Mac-
Arthur, says Canham, would also maintain in-
ternal civilian control in Japan for a genera-
tion. “Responsibility for this supervision, he
still suggests, should be through the United
Nations.”
* * * *
Bacterial War. —Even if general disarmament
was arranged and a thorough system of atomic
control and inspection established (both of
which at present look hopeless), there would
still be the nightmare possibility of bacterial
warfare. The best report of this so far made
is a 40,000-word technical document published
in the U.S., compiled by Drs. Theodor Rosebury
and Elvin A. Rabat, who make clear that it
would be even more difficult to control bacterial
weapons than atomic bombs. N.Y. “Times”
has commented on the report: “Only a techni-
cally powerful and rich country can undertake
the difficult task of converting uranium-238 into
plutonium. But bacteria and viruses? In a
small laboratory, ostensibly engaged in bio-
logical research, enough infectious material
could be cultivated at low cost.” Meanwhile,
because of the danger in science sharing
knowledge of the subject everywhere the con-
quest of infectious diseases is probably being
retarded.
« * * •
Soviet pooling. —As viewed by “Wall-street
Journal”: “What the Russians are doing in
Austria under the pretext of a completely phony
interpretation of the Potsdam provision entitling
them to ‘external German assets’ is nothing
more than looting, on a vast and crude scale.
No one is fooled, least of all the Austrians.
In a more naked and extreme form, it is
essentially the same sort of thing the Russians
have been doing in Rumania, Bulgaria, Czecho-
slovakia, Poland and their zone of Germany.
The political effects have been similar: the
people concerned, whether bowing under the
outward forms of Communist dictatorship or
not, have by and large grown to hate the
Soviet Union. It would be naive to suppose
that Russia is unaware of this. The simplest
and most logical explanation is that Russian
policy is dictated by the overriding need of
the Soviet economy for industrial plants and,
indeed, anything and everything which can be
transported or funnelled into the U.S.S.R.”
If it ever comes to a “shooting war” the
Kremlin might find that it had thus built up
quite the wrong sort of fifth-columns in the
neighboring countries where it would least
want them.
» * * *
Biography of Marx— Reviewing The Rea
Prussian: The Life and Legend of Karl Marx,
by Leopold Schwarzschild, published in
America, “Christian Science Monitor” vouches
for the accuracy of its well-documented details*
and draws on a few from the “book: “Marx
is pictured as cruel, vulgar and domineering,
as a dictator at heart and in his acts. He
squandered his father’s money; he sponged on
his widowed mother and then maligned her. He
lived on gifts and legacies during all his 65
years. He voluntarily gave up his fatherland,
separated himself from his maternal family, con-
tributed toward destroying every organisation
in which he played a leading role and viciously
attacked a large proportion of his leading col-
leagues. In his letters and conversations he
poured out scorn on ordinary people, especially
upon workers.”


m
% r
curity
SJ
%S" S SSSC;';
X-. /Sj
SI
SH;*
mm&m
L mm ■ -
■
Bp:
■
IHi
; : s/ -NS ■ d Z:/h. : Z :^Z:M::: Z<,r :: ;:
:
B<IBM
- ' ■■■, - ■
* '--sv^
’
v .
-- SSI'U
~JS> C* *
yx "■■ s-vftv. Z'Jrf ' U^Zy%S\
’
- •.:.>>%!
", •& $£?!? / J
I w
s.iis- ■ :% pii*
, ss»
for efficiency
\
? : ,s. i; -V y
;
V»
*t
■
.
■ 1
■
rU;f t'/'^i^ss#
SSI
aterloo Steel Roller Shutters
For Shop Fronts, Market
Entrances, Garages, Cart Docks
Fire-resisting, thief-resisting, space saving,
smooth running, Waterloo Steel Roller
Shutters fulfil the exacting demands of
modern industry. '
Designed to any required dimensions,
Waterloo (spring-balanced) Shutters are
available in hand-operated types, or with
electric hoisting gears.
Built into every Waterloo Shutter
are exclusive constructional features de-
veloped over many years of research
and experience.
A PRODUCT OF
Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd.
FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERS SINCE 1889
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, DARWIN, ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART
WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, AUCKLAND, DUNEDIN


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3527
Wednesday, September 17, 1947
FULL STEAM UP ON THE PROSPERITY EXPRESS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior J- E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Co ms
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings C opposite
G.P.0.). Wellington.
DISHING THE COMMUNISTS.
When the Taft-Hartley (Labor- Manage-
ment Relations) Act was passed over tne
President’s veto newspaper writers who
feed Australians with men fancies dis-
coursed gloomily on the frightful things
in store for the authors and supporters
of the measure and the American nation
at large.
Unions, great and small, would resist
the enforcement of the Act. There would
be immediate strikes from one end ot
the country to the other. C. 1.0. and
A.F.L. would combine to capture Con-
gress for “Labor” by defeating every
Congressman who voted for the
obnoxious law —a tough contract, for it
would mean electing 218 submissive
Democrats, Republicans and members of
Henry Wallace’s threatened new party
—and would meantime take care of any
by-election that came along. In the
nature of things there would be a number
of such by-elections before November,
1948, the Congressional and Presidential
election month, and they could all be
considered in the “Labor” bag.
Events have confounded the prophets
of disaster. After a specified period of
grace the law has come into operation
and is operating smoothly. Resistance to
it is no part of the programme of any
union leader not an avowed Communist;
and the Communist boss’s wings have
been clipped. There has not been a single
nation-wide or State-wide strike. Even
Lewis’s coalminers are working like
beavers under a new and very favorable
contract which the Act did not forbid,
and the contribution they are making to
the immense American volume of pro-
duction is strengthening the hands of
State Secretary Marshall—an asset denied
to Mr. Bevin by Britain’s “nationalised”
and extremely dissatisfied miners, as Mr.
Marshall’s opposite number has once
more deplored.
As for by-elections, there was one m
the State of Washington when faint-
hearted Congressmen might have been
influenced into voting against the Taft-
Hartley bill. “Labor” threw its weight
behind a Wallace Democrat, a previous
member for the disputed district. He was
handsomely defeated by a Taft-Hartley
Republican. There was another last week
in the much more politically important
State of Pennsylvania, which polled great
majorities for the second Roosevelt —
2,353,788 to 1,690,300 in 1936. Here,
according to a New York dispatch to the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” “‘Labor’
organised a vigorous campaign for the
Democrat, Storch,” and “all ‘Liberal’ [i.e..
Parlor Pink] and fellow-traveller groups
ganged up on the Republican, Lichten-
walter, for the first electoral test of
‘Labor’s’ strength since the Taft-Hartley
Act became law”:
The result was: Lich ten waiter 47,780,
Storch 30,178 —the greatest Republican
victory ever won in the Bucks and
Lehigh counties. It has brightened Re-
publican hopes of winning the Presidential
election and enhanced the prestige of
Senator Taft, who may be a candidate for
the Presidency.
The “Daily Telegraph” man was
driven to the conclusion that “the Ameri-
can masses favor control of labor-
unions.” And why shouldn’t they when
law is placed at their service, and at the
service of their country, as is the case
with the Taft-Hartley Act?
That enactment outlaws the use of
coercion “tp get a worker to join a
union or to switch unions” —for example,
to a counterpart of the Communist-
controlled Ironworkers from a counterpart
of the old Australian A.W.U. It “re-
quires unions to report on their financial
affairs —they must file with the Secretary
of Labor a copy of their constitutions and
by-laws, salary payments in excess of
$5OOO, dues and initiation requirements
and an annual audit,” all for “public in-
formation.” It authorises the registra-
tion of “a local independent union” —a
Sydney example would be the Balmain
branch of the Ironworkers^—£nd gives it
the full protection of United States law.
It prevents the expulsion of any union
member “for any reason other than fail-
ure to pay dues or initiation fees.” And
it outlaws strikes for “an illegal pur-
pose such as a secondary boycott; in
that case, the strike being illegal, the
employee is considered to have quit his
job and does not have to be re-hired.
If a union “calls an illegal strike,
either by violation of a contract or to
demand an improper contract provision,
it can be'sued for damages, “to be clari-
fied by the Court.” In these cases a
union may be held responsible for the
acts of its officers, such as Thornton and
McPhillips (Ironworkers), Healy (Water-
side Workers), Hughes (Clerks) and
Thomson (Building Trades). And where
a strike, or a threatened strike, involves
“a national emergency” the President, be-
sides having at call the provisions which
prevented the tie-up of railway services
and broke the strike of coalminers, on
whose president and union swingeing
penalties were imposed, can “set in motion
an elaborate mechanism of investigation
and delay.”
But the field of government itself is
secured against mass upheavals. In no
circumstances can the country be held ’
to ransom by its servants. “Strikes by
Federal Government employees are
specifically banned.”
The rights of the individual unionist,
left naked to his Communist and other
enemies in Australia, are carefully pro-
tected :
A man looking for a job cannot be
denied it simply because he does not
belong to a particular union. Hired, and
required to join a union, he can get
in on the same terms as all the, others.
If the union tries to treat him differently,
he can turn to the National Labor Rela-
tions Board and, once hired, he cannot be
fired on union orders unless he fails to
pay his union dues. He can talk against
the leaders of his union. He can urge
other members to get out of the union.
He can try to set up a rival union. It
the union of which he is a member tries
to' force him to stop his efforts, or if the
union threatens him or tries in any way
to coerce him, he can go to the Govern-
ment for protection.
“The right to fire is characteristic of
the social system against which the
‘Labor’ movement must fight and win.”
Dr. Evatt said that during his 1944
powers-referendum campaign, which the
Communists delightedly supported, as
they are delightedly supporting “Labor’s ’
attack on the banks. What the doctor
denounced, with the Communists cheer-
ing him on, is expressly authorised in the
Taft-Hartley Act. A member of a union
“may be fired for cause, and the union
cannot help him to get his job back,
unless it can be proved that he was fired
for union activity.”
But it is to be “an unfair labor practice,”
punishable at law, for an employer “to
interfere with, restrain or coerce em-
ployees in the exercise of their right to
join any labor union,” to aid a company
union, to dominate or interfere with the
operation of any union, and, specifically,
to “encourage or discourage member-
ship in any organisation by discrimina-
tion in hiring.” On the other hand, he
must not discriminate against a workman
expelled by a union for any reason other
than failure to pay dues or initiation fees,
even where a union shop contract is in
force. A man’s job is to be dependent
on thb way he does the job, not on his
acceptance, willing or unwilling, of union
rules and orders.
All these provisions strike at the sort
of union control which in this Common-
wealth has made unionism a calamity and
a peril to the nation. Other provisions
strike at Communists and fellow-travellers
directly:
The N.L.R.B. shall refuse to handle
complaints or petitions of unions unless
their officers file affidavits that they are
flot members of the Communist party and
do not support any organisation that be-
lieves in overthrow of the Government
by unconstitutional methods. A worker
may demand that the union officers file
such statements to protect his union s
right to use the Labor Board. If a worker
believes a union officer has sworn falsely
concerning his Communist affiliation the
worker can report him to the Justice De-
partment for prosecution.
The promulgation of the Taft-Hartley
Act has been followed by what a sober
and well-informed American newspaper
calls “a far-reaching drive to deport all
alien Communists from the United
States, a drive which will include
many Communists prominent in the
unions—not even ex-servicemen will
be exempt.” Arrests of foreign-born
Communist union bosses have been made
already. And behind the drive stands the
American Legion, which has close rela-
tions with our R.S.L.
What an example to Australia! To
Australia, where alien Communists not
only hold up transport and industry with
impunity but bend the foreign policy
of the country to their will and spit at
the White Australia doctrine. In effect,
the Communist conspiracy is being
smashed in America, and it can be
smashed in Australia by the same
methods and with the same general
acceptance. Here, as there, the mass of
the people are patriotic at heart, and
they would-respond to strength lawfully
exercised in the good cause of ridding the
nation of a foul and dangerous foreign
disease.
There will, of course, be no Australian
law on the Taft-Hartley model while
“Labor” remains in office, but the Oppo-
sition parties will be free to settle all
accounts with the wreckers when they
come into office, as they will. They
should take time by the forelock and
announce that they will do what is be-
ing done in America as soon as they get
the chance.
Hardluck Story.
Mr. Paul Hasluck was Mr. Macmahon
Ball’s senior in Dr. Evatt’s diplomatic
service and he anticipated the other dis-
satisfied gentleman by resigning, return-
ing home and having his tit-for-tat with
the Minister.
This Mr Hasluck did in his native city
of Perth (W.A). Of Dr. Evatt and the
Evatt dictatorship of the External Affairs
Department the recent “Counsellor Aus-
tralian Mission at United Nations Head-
quarters and Temporary Representative
Security Council” said:
Reluctantly 1 was forced to the opinion
that the present Minister wishes to make the
diplomatic staff and the staff of the Depart-
ment of External Affairs his own personal
possession. 1 do not wish to have any
place in a service of that kind.
He objected also to the direction of policy,
finding in it “a passion for doing some-
thing on every occasion without enough
concern over what is best and doing it
at the right time,” a tendency to thump
tables, to intrude into other people s
affairs, and to ignore considerations of
other people’s honor or the tenderness of
other people’s corns. Nor was that all:
There has also been a sort of larrikin
strain in Australian foreign policy—a dis-
position to thrdw stones at the street lights
just because they are bright. It is not
a habit that helps the general illumination.
Mr. Hasluck’s pretty thought should
lend a zest to the cocktails preliminary
to the meeting of U.N.O. General
Assembly, especially as Dr. Evatt has
been tipped for the chair.
The Hasluck references are not at all
obscure. A week before he presented his
considered opinion of Dr. Evatt and the
Evatt methods, which he did in an address
at the Westralian University, he had men-
tioned the Indonesian business to press
interviewers, declaring that “Australia”
had “lightheartedly ignored the provision
of the U.N. Charter regarding non-inter-
ference in matters of domestic jurisdic-
tion,” although “this provision had been
inserted in the Charter at Australia’s in-
sistence.”
On a second matter Mr. Hasluck prob-
ably felt too bitter to speak. In respect
of American proposals for control of the
Western Pacific islands taken from the
Japanese he had been required to pursue
before the Security Council much .the
same pinpricking tactics against the
United States which Dr. Evatt had
authorised in Mr. Macmahon Ball at
General MacArthur’s Advisory Council
in Tokyo. The annoyance expressed by
the U.S. delegate to U.N.O. at “the extra-
ordinarily clumsy resolution” which Mr.
Hasluck submitted was serious enough.
Mr. Hasluck’s lame and lamentable
efforts at explanation next day about
what * Australian policy was aiming at
merely provoked derision. It also proved
the last straw on the camel’s back for
Mr. Hasluck, who promptly resigned
from his appointment at U.N.O. and from
Dr. Evatt’s service. Dr. Evatt had tried
to lay down the law to the world once
too often for him.
Mr, Macmahon Ball’s feelings were
quite as grievously injured, but he is un-
likely to receive the same sympathy from
the Australian public. He had apparently
revelled in doing the autocrat’s bidding ,
he believed, and with good warrant, that
he was piping in full tune with the Evatt
policy right up to the time of the Great
Man’s entrance upon the Tokyo scene.
In fact, press reports, prophesying that
feathers would fly as soon as Dr. Evatt
met General MacArthur, quoted him as
clapping Mr. Macmahon Ball on the back
with a “well-done-thou-good-and-faithful-
servant” encomium of an outburst against
“the Supreme Commander’s 18 months of
continuous failure.” General MacArthur,
the London “Economist” reported, had
rather gained than suffered in reputation
from sniping by the Russian member of
the Council. But when Mr. Macmahon
Ball, on behalf of Dr. Evatt, joined the
Soviet troublemaker in the practice, the
man who had lately led his country’s
forces in delivering Australia from the
enemy began to protest.
Canberra must have been told that this
sniping had become a nuisance. As Dr.
Evatt, after familiar alarums and’excur-
sions, took his august departure for
Tokyo, Mr. Chifley announced that his
mission was not to quarrel with General
MacArthur over “minor matters” like
whaling and phosphates, but to “get the
atmosphere” for the Empire conference
at Canberra. But Canberra did not warn
Mr. Macmahon Ball, and the first that
gentleman knew of the new tack was
when Dr. Evatt returned from his heart-
to-heart talks at American headquarters
with the instruction that the persistent
annoyance of “my friend General Mac-
Arthur” must cease. Mr. Ball regarded
this as “the limit” and immediately got
himself off the Evatt payroll, just as Mr.
Hasluck had done.
The one and only begetter of this extra-
ordinary diplomacy asserted in Australia’s
name is surely due for castigation in
Parliament. The Evatt policy and
methods are not merely making this Com-
monwealth a jest in friendly overseas
chancelleries ; they are storing up trouble
for the nation. The “passion for doing
something on every occasion” without
thought or timing has been all passion
and no fruit respecting most parts of the
world. Indonesia is another and very
nasty matter.
An elementary survey of the situation
in the N.E.I. should have informed any-
one holding Dr. Evatt’s responsible office
that the so-called Indonesian Republic
represented an insurrection inspired by
Communists and fomented by the Jap-
anese in the hour of their defeat. So far as
its objective expressed Javanese self-gov-
erning aspirations; the Dutch had come
to accept it on lines of a fair compromise.
Moreover the very agreement between
the native leaders and the Dutch pro-
claimed it a domestic affair, and there-
fore not one for the Security Council.
Even if the “dispute” could be judged
as referable to that body such reference
would, on Dr. Evatt’s own conviction as
expressed in Parliament, be quite fruitless,
for nothing effectual could be done with
it there. All these considerations were
completely ignored.
The Dutch, our loyal allies in the late
war, had as much right to return to Java
in quest of their nationals, held in intern-
ment by the Javanese, and their mills and
plantations, for whose produce Europe
was starving, as Australians had to return
to New Guinea. But Dr. Evatt chose to
entertain other views and, while proclaim-
ing Australia neutral, his Government
sided openly with the Indonesians against
the Dutch. Australian Communists on
the waterfront decided this attitude and
Dr. Evatt accepted it. The disgraceful
hold-up of Dutch shipping in Australian
ports by Commo-run unions, and the
equally disgraceful hold-up of Dutch
planes (condemned and repudiated by
the A.W.U.), utterly disqualified Aus-
tralia as an arbitrator between the Dutch
and the Indonesian leaders. Yet Can-
berra insisted on submitting the Indo-
nesian dispute to the Security Council as
from a neutral, and then accepted nomi-
nation by the “Indernesian comrades” as
their sponsor on a commission of three
to seek a settlement.
That this was flying in the face of
Britain and the United States—those
Governments held that it was a domestic
dispute —openly antagonising the Dutch,
and comforting only the Communists
puppets in South-East Asia, counted at
Canberra not in the least. So complacent
has been the Evatt policy towards the
“larrikins” in Java that the Australian
Government has never yet published
Judge Kirby’s report on the murder by
Indonesians of three Australian officers,
unarmed men, under orders from the
Australian Government to search as a
war-crimes unit for missing Australian
prisoners-of-war. Nor has Canberra ever
demanded an apology and a promise of
retributive justice from the guilty ‘ Gov-
ernment,” or even compensation for the
outrage on behalf of the dead men s
families.
Any such demand would, of course, be
offensive to Communists; and the
Minister who has directed our external
affairs as “his personal possession,” and
who bangs and blusters at international
gatherings as though he had some power
behind him, has made a point of being
Kind to Communists ever since he re-
moved the war-time ban on their organi-
sations and newspapers. Though Mr. Has-
luck testifies that “at U.N.O. I always
found-the representatives of the Nether-
lands standing on the same ground of
principle and democratic methods as
Australia,” and “learned to value their
co-operation,” Communist larrikins dic-
tate the larrikin part of Our Foreign
Policy as it concerns the Dutch.
This encouragement of strife in the
N.E.I. will have serious repercussions *on
Australia before the consequences have
worked themselves out. It has already
seriously damaged our trade with one of
our most important regional customers;
and Asiatics in many places must draw
conclusions, favorable to them but
dangerous, if not deadly, to us, from
Australian “Labor’s” complacency m
face of a campaign of robbery and mm-
der in Indonesia and lawless seizure oi
power in Australia. More than a million
people of various nationalities have
perished under Indonesian “rule.” That
Was stated by a former president of ne
NE I. Parliament, in a letter to tne
London “Times,” and after a reference to
“the ridiculous and shameful comedy in
the Security Council, stimulated ny
Russia,” he added “Can you understand
our feelings for anyone acting like Aus-
tralia has done?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Banks and By-Elections.
J. M. Drew, journalist, politician and
good fellow, was a member of four
Westralian “Labor” Governments, among
them the first (1904-05), the second
(1911-16) and the third (1924-30). He
was in office for upwards of 15 years
and leader of the Legislative Council for
the same period. When he died on July
17 he had been member for the Central
Province, with only one break, since May,
1900.
The Central Province is composed of
five Assembly electorates, two of which,
the mining districts of Mt. Magnet and
Murchison, have always had “Labor”
members ; a third, the port of Geraldton,
elected Mr. Willcock in 1917 and saw
him become Premier for 10 years (1936-
1946). The other two are farming dis-
tricts, Greenough and Irwin-Moore, and
Greenough has several times elected
“Labor” candidates, while Irwin-Moore
has shown no particular liking for
Liberals. So it seemed more than prob-
able that Mr. Drew’s seat would be held
for his party, especially as the Westralian
“Labor” executive reported to Mr.
Chifley that the McLarty-Watts Adminis-
tration was slipping, and that another
Commonwealth election would give
“Labor” all the Westralian Senate seats
and three, if not four, of the five seats in
the House.
But the Central Province is to have a
Liberal M.L.C., Mr. Daffen. He beat the
“Labor” man, Mr. O’Brien, by 1683 to
929, routing him in Irwin-Moore (84
to 13) and Greenough (602 to 217), get-
ting a 314 majority in Geraldton (850 to
536) and leading even in Mt. Magnet (59
to 44). The electors of the Province had
known for nearly a fortnight what the
Chifley “Government” intended to do to
the banks and to the millions of people
with bank balances. Not long enough
for this issue to be thoroughly placed
before them, but long enough to bring
about the sweeping and—for “Labor”
—most disconcerting result.
It seemed daring, if not foolhardy, for
Mr. Hollway and Mr. Menzies to fight
the Collingwood (Vic.) Assembly by-
election on the bank-grab issue, especially
as Collingwood has been a “Labor” seat
for generations. With people in revolt
against the bank grab in every State, in
city and country alike, it doesn’t look
daring or foolhardy now. Not for 30
years has public opinion been so strongly
moved, and it has been hardened by the
contemptuous silence of Mr. Chifley, and
by the imbecilities of Ministers Dedman
and D. Cameron. A Dedman “argu-
ment” for the threatened expropriation
was that the services of 5000 trading-
bank officers could be dispensed with.
The other fool of the family blithered
about commandeering deserted bank
buildings for post offices, and when the
P.M. tried to allay the fears of the
threatened bank officers the P.M.G. said
he would find jobs for them as sorters,
stamp-sellers and the like.
For five years this Federal “Labor”
mob has gone in for extortionate and
reckless finance. It has taken far more
from the pockets of the people than it
legitimately required; in the just indict-
ment of Mr. Fadden, it has “over-taxed,
over-borrowed and over-spent.” But it
won’t get control of bank balances and
overdrafts, for use in the spirit which
prompted it to appoint a discredited
“Labor” Premier Governor-General, find
fat jobs for a parcel of defeated “Labor”
politicians, buy two fleets of motor-cars
for its own service and recreation and
scrape a droughty pool for dollars, not
only for the second fleet of jaunting cars,
but so that political herbs like Senator
Amour and Mr. Daly might be refreshed
with overseas trips—no ; it won’t get
control of bank balances and overdrafts
if depositors can help it.
The Chlfleys 1 Failure.
Parliament, meeting today in Canberra,
will be directed by all thfe Ministry’s
energies to concentration on the bill to
inaugurate socialisation of industry
through the expropriation of the trading
banks, but the Opposition parties should
have plenty of business of their own to
force before the House.
Dr. Evatt will be conveniently absent,
but the Prime Minister is due to explain
what remnants of a considered foreign
policy (if any) are left in the Govern-
ment’s approach to the Japanese peace
settlement; and what end, save the an-
noyance of our allies in this region, has
been secured by its gratuitous encourage-
ment of Javanese hostility against the
Dutch in, the very region of that “island
screen of defences” in which it once pro-
tested so much interest.
The country wants to know what im-*
migration policy “Labor” is pursuing,
save the importation of Jews from
Palestine, China and Europe; what is
being done to fulfil our promises of
tangible help to Britain in her distress ;
and why “Labor” politicians as globe-
trotters have been free to spend dollars
ad lib. when the country’s trade must
be put on famine-rations of dollar ex-
change.
The country wants to know whether the
“Government” has taken any action
whatever to carry out its schemes for
greater production; with what hidden
resources it has joined with State
“Labor” Premiers in assuring the Arbi-
tration Court that a shorter working
week can be accepted (by Government
industry, at any rate) with ease and
equanimity; and what Mr. Chifley pro-
poses to do now that the A.C.T.U. has
thrown over its recent undertaking to
support incentive payments. The coun-
try wants to know, also, whether ship-
ping stoppages on the coast are to be a
permanent feature of the new order, and
whether the Government is helpless in
face of the silly inter-union row that has
produced the latest of them —or one of
the latest.
The rise in output of some consumer-
goods in recent months should delude
nobody. Costs are getting quite out of
hand. For want of goods that matter
most, especially for housing and in coal
and the heavy industries, the economy
of the nation is dangerously declining.
“Nationalisation” of industry at the behest
of the wreckers may furnish the Chifleys
with a fine red-herring, but the Opposi-
tion parties should not be drawn aside
ANOTHER PROJECTED BITE.
“The so-called free medical service will mean a loss of freedom for the people, a loss of
freedom for the doctors and 20,000 more Government employees.”— B. M. A.
“What big teeth you have, doctor?”
“All the better to bite you with, patient.”
by it from the urgent job of restoring
the working energies of the country. To
divide the community, and unnecessarily,
at such a time with the most contentious
issue since conscription can only aggra-
vate our difficulties.
This Stamp Business.
It was like the P.M.G. Department to
put the wrong head on its design for
Newcastle’s Shortland stamp ; and it was
like Mr, Don Cameron to argue, in the
face of history, that the wrong head was
the right head. Mr. Cameron, who admits
to rising 70 and prides himself on having
once been secretary to the Victorian
Socialist “party,” is never more fatuous
than when advancing or maintaining a
proposition with no leg to stand on and
nothing to stand on the leg.
Mr. Cameron’s department has long
been the despair of stamp-collectors. To
these worthies the -Shortland blunder was
food merely for scornful laughter, nor
were they mollified by the claim that Mr.
Wilson, the good-as-“ Labor” politician
whom “Labor” sent to Norfolk Island as
a reward for his vote, secured for them
an issue of Norfolk Island stamps.
In actual fact that issue was nearly
10 years behind the fair. It was proposed
by General Charles Rosenthal shortly
after his arrival as Administrator, and
prints were struck off 18 months before
the outbreak of war, which furnished the
department with an excuse for not going
on with the business. With the design or
printing of these stamps Mr.' Wilson had
nothing whatever to do, and he should
have been candid enough to admit it, but
it doesn’t seem to be in the nature of
this good-as-“ Labor” politician or his
patrons to award a particle of credit to
the old A.I.F. leader, who served Aus-
tralia as faithfully on Norfolk Island as
on the fields of Gallipoli and France.
From commemorative stamps Canada
and the U.S.A. draw a steady annual
income, as well as securing the benefits of
neat and effective advertising ; and phila-
telists all over the world value their efforts
highly. But, to put it mildly, this is not
the case with Australia’s spasmodic
exertions in the same field. A great
occasion for a good commemorative
stamp was neglected last month when the
hundredth anniversary of John Forrest’s
birth came around. It was honored in
Westralia by moving ceremonies which
delighted surviving contemporaries of the
man who was a great explorer, the great-
est Westralian Premier, a member of the
first Commonwealth Cabinet, not the least
of war Ministers and the first native-
born Australian peer; withal, an empire
builder whose Fremantle Harbor and
goldfields water-supply works remind the
present generation that there were giants
in his day. The present Postmaster-
General, as a resident of Westralia when
Forrest and C. Y. O’Connor, in the teeth
of surly opposition, gave their great and
entirely successful engineering enterprises
to a handful of people, might have been
expected to spare a thought for that
hundredth anniversary—allowing, for the
sake of argument, that he is capable of
thinking. But Forrest commemorative
stamp there was none.
Parnassus Achieved.
That eminent philosopher and patron of
the arts the Hon. James McGirr was
caught in an exultant mood when the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court’s 40-
hour-week judgment was given to the
world. The McGirr hailed it as “a spec-
tacular milestone in Australia’s history.”
It is my belief that we now have in Aus-
tralia the greatest civilisation the world has
ever known.
Then, retiring to his study, the philo-
sopher resumed his contemplation of the
whicheverness of the absolute. And the
citizens of Sydney, having weighed his
words, went forth and jostled each other
on the insolvent Government vehicles, or
struggled through the crowds besieging
the Government lottery office. There
are always three, sometimes four. Gov-
ernment lottery drawings every week in
thfc city over wlrch Mr. McGirr reigns
—when the Communists let him —and
which, for the centre of “the greatest
civilisation the world has ever known,” is
strangely short of hospital staffs and
equipment, houses, transport vehicles and
even soap and sugar.
A Helot Existence.
Whatever the “Labor” bank-expropria-
tion proposals come to, they are already
having effects unforeseen by their
clumsy authors. One is the cementing
of the interests of the small, moderate
States and of the country districts which
rarely return a “Labor” member, all now
faced with the prospect of becoming serfs
to Communist-ridden cities.
A glimpse at “Labor” platforms shows
how “Labor” plans the gradual tighten-
ing of the net around small States and
the people outside the great wens. On
the A.L.P. programme are not only the
expropriation of the banks, the insurance
(and assurance) concerns and the iron and
steel industries but the abolition of the
Senate, the abolition of Legislative Coun-
cils, the abolition of the States them-
selves —with, in N. S. Wales, the abolition
of most of the municipal councils.
Speaking at Adelaide on September 11,
Dr. Earle Page said;
Today Australia needs not unification or
centralising nationalising projects. It needs
more federalism, more States—States if pos-
sible approximately equal to each other in
size or importance or population... .In
such a system the Senate would prove a
real check on revolutionary legislation. We
need decentralisation of administration.
We need regional development by authori-
ties as close to the spot as can be managed
We need national leadership with States’
control of their own problems maintained.-
... .The threat of socialisation can be coun-
tered only by the greatest measure of local
government; for only in local government,
achieved through the smallest possible units,
can the ordinary man become acquainted
with democracy and learn to take personal
responsibility for his own and the country’s
welfare and progress.
The whole basis of the success of the
U.K. method of government is the
manner in which authority in everything
save great national policies has been
placed in the hands of localities.
Cities appoint their own police.
Counties and boroughs manage their own
education. Local magistrates sit on
quarter - sessions benches. Despite
Britain’s immensely greater population,
the ordinary citizen in that country is—
or was until the advent of the Attlee
Government—in much closer contact with
the detailed processes of government than
any other citizen in the world, Swiss and
Swede possibly excepted. And it is be-
cause of this intimacy between the ordi-
nary man and the work of government
that the vicious intrusion of the class-
war and the setting of man against man
is less possible there than it is in this
country, where “democracy”—save the
mark!—is implemented by a body of
dictators as remote from the ordinary
citizen as the rulers of the Kremlin.
Patriotism is failing in Australia be-
cause it is not in fashion. For love of
country there has been substituted
subservience to Caucus, Communists and
an ever-growing bureaucracy. Many an
Australian is losing his respect for law
and his desire to own land, on which he
cannot build without a permit. He has
no enduring hold upon his own fate or
initiative; no share in government
and no contact with it except to meet
its rapacities and receive its orders. Even
his. vote at elections is exercised under
compulsion and is withheld at his peril.
De Tocqueville (Dr. Page quoted him),
said that democracy and socialism had
nothing in common but the word
“equality.” While democracy seeks
equality in the liberty of the individual,
socialism counts man as a mere number
in the driven mass and seeks equality for
him only in his servitude.
The same thought must be in the minds
of hundreds of thousands of helot people
in the small States and the country dis-
tricts who have become slaves of “con-
trollers,” taxgatherers, selfish and greedy
politicians and union bosses and mobs.
A vigorous movement against this city-
made tyranny is long overdue, and it
seems to be in operation at last.
U.S.A. and U.S.S.R.
Going the rounds in the U.S.A. is' a
story, vouched for by savants, that by
1970 the U.S.S.R. will have 250,000,000
people, the U.S.A. only 150,000,000.
Archbishop Duhig, of Queensland, made
a note of it on a recent visit to America,
and apparently accepted it as reasonable,
which is exceedingly strange. For, ex-
amined in the light of published popula-
tion figures and war losses, the thing
shows all the marks and brands of Com-
munist propaganda, which savants, from
Einstein down, are astonishingly apt to
lap up.
At* the census of April 1, 1940, the
population of continental U.S.A. was
131,669,275. Only seven years later, ac-
cording to a Census Board estimate, it
had increased to 143,311,000, which is
good going. Admission of Hawaii as a
State —to this the House of Representa-
tives has agreed—and inclusion of “per-
sons in the military and naval services
stationed abroad” would bring it up to
144.000. —not far short of the
U.S.S.R. figures for 1926.
In that year the Russian rulers claimed
a population of 147,027,900, and in 1939
one of 170,467,186. So their annual rate
of increase during 13 years of peace was
little more actually, and relatively less,
than America’s annual rate of increase
during seven years, nearly five of which
were war years'. America’s war losses
were, of course, small compared with
those of the Russians. They, as they have
admitted at least twice, were deprived of
17.000. persons, mostly adult males,
by death alone. One effect of this mourn-
ful and terrible human tragedy may be
seen in the rigid ban on emigration, even
of the few hundred Russian women
married to Britons and Americans,
Allowing the Russian rulers their gains
from conquered and overawed countries,
all of which are doubtful and will be-
come more so when Stalin goes to his
account, there is no possibility of their
having 250,000,000 people by 1970. That
year may indeed see their population ex-
ceeded by that of the U.S.A., especially
if the Americans open their gates again,
as they probably will. The Russian gates
are closed, even against Jews.


1
mm.
I
mg
SSSSB^aS
: :
m
n»
* 5
mifiiii**!*:
CRAVEN A
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality
Obtainable In 10 ? s
POLITICAL POINTS
News of the bank grab, swift sequel to
the salary and pensions steals, reached
Westralia # when “Labor” was planning
the succession to Johnnie Drew, “Labor”
member of four Cabinets, and M.L.C.
for the Central Province since 1900, with
only one defeat on his record. This was
the subdivisional voting:
Daffen. O’Brien,
(Lib.) (Lab.)
Geraldton .. .. 850 536
Greenough .. .. 602 217
Murchison .. .. 88 119
Mt. Magnet .. .. 59 44
Irwin-Moore .. .. 84 13
1683 929
And in Drew’s time Geraldton, Green-
ough, Murchison and Mt, Magnet were
“Labor” Assembly electorates. So the
revolt against socialisation by bank grab
has already begun to express itself at the
polls.
Another of those “militanf’-bossed
unions has struck a dinkum Australian
who refuses to be bullied. He is Alec
Miller, a Melbourne carpenter, who at a
union meeting criticised the branch
balance-sheet —union bosses are very
touchy on balance-sheets —and wanted to
know “where the State management
committee is leading us.” For this the
union bosses imposed a fine of £2.
Miller took his case to the Arbitration
Court and Judge Kelly declared the fine
invalid, making the following points:
The view that a member of a union who
criticises its administration makes himself
immediately liable to punishment is absurd.
....The union secretary and another both
accused Miller and acted as his judges....
The rule that prohibits any member from
taking any action regarding administration
of the union through any outside body
or persons is disallowed, since it deprives
members of rights conferred upon them by
statute.
Unionism could do with more Millers.
There would be plenty if Australia had
a measure like the American Taft-Hartley
Act.
Poor old Tommy Atkins, risking
torture, death or injury in trying to
keep the peace in Palestine and elsewhere,
found unexpected admirers of his activi-
ties at Hamburg. “You would have been
proud of the conduct of these provoked
and spat-upoh British soldiers,” said a
8.8. C. observer when Jews were put off
ships at that port—and even a few wan-
dering U.S. Congressmen agreed. It has
come out that the Soviet gets these Jews
out of Germany on a Soviet ship, collect-
ing them from a secret rendezvous. No-
body would be silly enough to suppose
Moscow would do a thing like that out
of sympathy. It doesn’t admit Jews to
the Workers’ Paradise.
Seeing that N, S. Wales has a Minister
of Local Government, though other
States dispense with the luxury, he would
seem to be the natural man to open the
annual conference of the Local Govern-
ment Association, and in former years
the Minister, Cahill, subscribed to this
view. But he has declined to have any-
thing to do with the conference to be held
shortly in Grafton. Reason? The Local
Government Association has become
political, which is Cahill language for
saying that the association has .shown
opposition to his policy of killing Local
Government and substituting “Labor”
misrule.
It is reported on the worst authority
that an admirer of Alfred William
Foster, ready with his vote when his
hero “contested the Balaclava and
Fawkner electorates as ‘Labor’ candidate,”
had a frightful experience last week.
Going to bed after a crayfish supper, with
confused memories of Foster panegyrics
on Soviet Russia, he somehow got it
into his mind that Mr. Foster had decreed
a 40-hour week for the Workers’ Paradise.
He had a frightful vision of a blameless
Beechworth native (“recreations, tennis,
golf”) being taken into a dark corridor
for “liquidation” when he woke up.
Thfe taxpayer’s heart bleeds for that
“Labor” Minister who rushed around
the country exhorting people to convert
their loan holdings and. returned to find
a telegram urging him to convert
his own £7OO worth, which he had for-
gotten. There is a world of significance
in that “forgotten.” After all, what’s a
mere £7OO to a representative of the wage
plugs?
Soliciting “the greatest possible pub-
licity,” a Sydney conference of State Egg-
marketing Boards announces that it has
had the Commonwealth Controller of
Egg Supplies and wants his “immediate
withdrawal.” For these reasons:
His prices are too low —lower than what
he gets for export eggs, though egg-
farmers contribute Id. a dozen to a control
fund ostensibly to keep the local price
above export parity. Production costs have
increased. The community could stand an
increase to Is. lid. a dozen for first-class
hen-fruit. “Washed-egg" qualities intro-
duced by the Controller are a pain in the
neck and have made it impossible to in-
crease the export of unwashed eggs to
Britain. In general his policy has had “un-
fortunate results” and he issues decrees
“incapable of fulfilment.”
Pollard, the Federal Minister concerned,
has been advised of all this, and is ex-
pected to call for a report, which could
be headed “The Egg and I.”
The Gee-Gee’s Sydney Turf Club,
though supported by Lud Mayor Bartley,
failed to move the Water Board into
selling it a huge slice of the Botany
water reserve, factory area and golf links,
for a racecourse. Bartley is not on the
Water Board, but a “Labor” alderman
named Carroll is. Carroll cast the only
vote for the sale.
With a. thumping wheat harvest in
sight—except, perhaps, in Westralia—■
there is not enough labor to take it off
and cart it, nor enough storage, nor suffi-
cient ships to carry it away. There is
a tragic shortage of homes. Many in-
dustries are working to a fraction of their
productive capacity for want of coal, raw
and manufactured materials and labor.
Along with a great unsatisfied home
market there is a howling world demand
for our surplus. What the situation calls
for is not a 40-hour week, but a 40-
hour week-end till conditions become
normal again.
Thoughts of an Elder Statesman,
voiced in Westralian Parliament:
In days to comd we in Australia may feel
that we have been rather short-sighted in
helping to drive the white man out of the
East. Most members will recall the time
when the Mediterranean was virtually an
English lake. What is the position today?
If we look further east we see the waning
of British influence in India and Burma.
Are we now going to drive the Dutch out
of Java?
The speaker was H. P. Colebatch, who
after an able journalistic career became
Minister of Education, Premier, Agent*-
General, Senator and Agent-General
again.
From November 1 airline companies
in Queensland are to be stung for a tax
— 2\ p.c. to 10 p.c. —on gross earnings.
Thus a party of ex-servicemen could
have a loss of £3OOO on an income of
£5OOO, and be up for another £5OO. This
Transport Minister Duggan calls “pre-
serving a balanced transport system.”
Whatever the object and by whomsoever
imposed a tax on gross earnings is a
putrid tax.
All assertions, arguments and discus-
sions dismissed, it should be enough for
any good Australian that the Communist
party is backing the expropriation of the
private banks. So it is in Hungary, where
a faked election, liquidation of opponents
and the pressure of the Red Army have
placed it in power.
You can’t beat these “Labor” trippers.
A week after “immediate sweeping cuts
in imports to save dollars” were
announced by Chifley, another announce-
ment came from McGirr;
Special inquiries into building methods
overseas will be made by Mr. A. Landa,
M.L.A. for Bondi, who will leave Sydney
within a fortnight on a six weeks’ visit to
the U.S.A. He will bear a special authority
from the Premier to inquire on behalf of
the N.S.W. Government.
“A. Landa” is known to the boys as
“Abie,” and, so far from being a build-
ing expert, he is a Leftist lawyer who
logrolled for a Leftist professor and was
an ardent Second Fronter in 1942. Who
finds the dollars, and will they come out
of what is left of the British pool?
Pith of Hasluck’s hardluck story:
I cannot admit that the public service
or any part of it can ever become the
personal possession of one Minister.
Perhaps it would have been all the better
for the country if Hasluck had been
brought up in Sydney and Evatt in Perth,
With Dollar Deadhead Daly back from
his five-months dollar-squandering travels,
A.B.C. has returned to bracketing him
with Haylen—Haylen also had dollar-
squandering jaunt—in its “news.”
Haylen wants not only a national theatre
—Haylen writes plays —but “marriage
loans.” Young married couples and
those about to marry would dispense
with “marriage loans” if they could get
the houses which Haylen’s crowd and its
army of post-war reconstructors promised
to supply and didn’t.
In Melbourne, where they take their
football seriously, Hollway, Victorian
Liberal leader, was addressing a Colling-
wood audience on bank expropriation.
“If you had one football team, Colling-
wood, would you expect the. standard to
improve or go back?” From the audi-
ence arose a sad voice: “It couldn’t be
worse.” Collingwood had failed to
reach the semi-finals.
A Chinese merchant “who has been
living for over 20 years in Java, under
Dutch and Indonesian rule,” to the
“Straits Times”:
The Indonesians loot and steal whatever
they can lay their hands on. All the officials
are corrupt. Under Dutch control, one
can leave the house unlocked with any
amount of valuables in it; there has never
been a single case of jewehsnatching or
armed robbery and not a single case of
corruption. Thousands of Chinese vol-
unteers and tens of thousands of Dutch-
men fought for “their” Java. How many
Indonesians raised a hand against the Japs!
Their nationalistic movement is a small
one, sponsored by a corrupt “intellectual”
group, which keeps its own morale high
by posters and broadcasts to the world.
All this —and there is a good deal more
—by way of explaining to Straits
Chinese “why the Chinese population
cheered the arrival of the Dutch,” and
“why the Chinese Government does' not
join the Indian-Australian pro-Indo-
nesian bloc.” N "
The 40-hour-week judgment reached
Westralia just after Deputy Premier
Watts had summed up the mechanical
situation of the Government railways
after 20 years of “Labor” administra-
tion ;
Fifty per cent, of the locomotives won’t
work, and the rolling stock is insufficient
and inefficient.
Previously a royal commissioner “in-
quiring into the working and control of
the Midland workshops” had put it to
the Commissioner, J. A. Ellis, that “you
are riding for disaster —you are fast ap-
proaching the stage when you won’t be
able to give the kind of service de-
manded” ; and Ellis’s sad reply was “I
have already warned the Government of
that.” Finances? Anything less than a
loss of a million was considered rather a
wonderful year by “Labor.”
A bill to stop traders in other States
from giving presents to people who save
the wrappers or coupons from packed
goods is going through the Queensland
Parliament. Attorney-General Gledson
said it aimed at preventing coupon-trad-
ing in Queensland by inter-State firms. It
aims also at getting round the Section (92)
which proclaims that trade, commerce
and intercourse among the States must
be “absolutely free.” Gledson will find
—and so will Chifley in the matter of the
banks—that Section 92 is still alive and
kicking.
Though there were press-inspired anti-
cipations of a brawl in Sydney Domain on
Sunday, when the Bank Officers’ Associa-
tion solicited public support for
its protest against the banks being ex-
propriated and many of their employees
thrown on the streets, anyone who had
any such idea must have dropped it. The
crowd numbered 10,000, and except for
a dejected fragment collected round a
Communist platform, almost to a man
and woman they were for the banks and
their employees, for the most part re-
turned servicemen. The spectacle would
have been a facer for Chifley had he been
there, but neither he nor any of his
Caucus was sighted. Not even Dollar
Deadhead Daly, though in his insigni-
ficance he would have been safe.
A certain type of employer is fond of
asking in his club or on his golf course
why the individual unionist doesn’t come
out against Communist control of his
union. A glimpse of the reason was
given when the Communist Thornton
abused and struck an A.C.T.U. Congress
reporter, smashing his spectacles. There
followed an unlawful-assault charge,
which was dealt with promptly, that being
customary Melbourne procedure—in
Sydney, for some never-explained reason,
any Communist basher or mob demon-
strator can count on being remanded for
months. Dismissing a similar case
against Thornton’s foul-mouthed offsider
McPhillips, who was nevertheless refused
costs, the magistrate convicted the Iron-
workers’ boss and fined him £5, “in de-
fault 14 days,” with £3 3s. costs. But
the fellow is still at large and full of mis-
chief. In the U.S.A. he would be be-
hind bars and booked for deportation.
Queensland “Labor” is amending its
Friendly Societies Act and Opposition-
leader Nicklin suspects an undisclosed
scheme of “insurance” for defeated
members to be behind the move.
Attorney-General Gledson’s reply left
room for doubt. Nicklin quoted a list of
defeated or retired “Labor” members who
are now on the public payroll. There
were 18 of ’em, all State men, to whom
could be added fellow-Queenslanders
Oilman Martens and Mountie Forde.
First fruits of the 40 - hour - week
decision are threats of a bus strike in
Melbourne and Sydney, in each case
for a five-day week, irreconcilable with
maintenance of seven-day services. Be-
cause of man-power shortage Melbourne’s
Tramway Board has already had to re-
engage conductresses. In terms of what
the union demands an additional 844 men
will have to be added to the payroll and
finances won’t stand it without a big
increase in tram fares. Victorian train-
users are already contemplating massive
additions to fares and freight-rates.
Alderman Roberts, chairman of Bris-
bane’s transport and electricity depart-
ments, holds that constant increases in
costs of material and wages, with
shortening of hours, will wreck the ex-
isting system of financing local govern-
ment from rates and loans. Brisbane
City Council has a budget of £Bl mil-
lion, but rates, high as they are, account
for only a million; the rest comes
from trading departments which compete
against ratepayers but pay no rates.
Australian contributions to the relief
of distress in Europe include the equi-
valent of £918,000 for Czechoslovakia,
£320,000 for Byelorussia, £152,000 for
Yugoslavia, £131,000 for the Ukraine,
£59000 for Albania and £55,000 for
Poland. In addition all these countries
have shared in gifts of wool and used
clothing, and they are to share m an
Australian contribution of £4,000,000 to
meet post-U.N.R.R.A. relief needs.
They are all Communist countries, and
none of their Governments has shown
a bit of gratitude.


“THE LIGHTS ARE GOING OUT’-OR ARE THEY?
“There has been a larrikin streak in Australian foreign policy—a disposition to throw stones at the street lights just because they are bright. It is not a habit that helps
the general illumination.” —Paul Hasluck, till recently Dr. Evatt’s deputy on the Security Council of U.N.O.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Hist”: Although the portrait of the
wrong Shortland on the Newcastle com-
memorative stamp must mark a new high
in philatelic bloomers, minor mistakes in
stamp design are common enough, the
most frequently cited being the Nevis
stamp, which shows Columbus using a
collapsible telescope. Some others:
Jamaica in 1919 issued a stamp on which
the Union Jack was flying upside down ;
Newfoundland offered a map of the
island with Cape Bauld north of Cape
instead of vice versa ; and New
Zealand pictured Lake Wakatipu and
spelt it Wakftipu. Corrected versions of
all these s ups were issued as soon as
possible. la 1898 the Sudan postal
authorities issued stamps with a water-
mark in the form of a Maltese cross ;
the Moslem population took offence and
it was replaced by the star and crescent.
By the way, readers who scan their
Bulletin from cover to cover should
find the design of the 3|d. Newcastle
stamp (depicting the steel industry)
familiar. Compare the design with the
B.H.P. advertisement on the back cover
of B. 10/9/’47.
“Mac Hoots”: According to Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” Newcastle (N.S.W.)
forgot to claim artist William Dobell
when it was honoring its distinguished
sons on its 150th birthday. I haven’t
seen any reference to novelist Lawson
Glassop, either. Glassop’s We Were the
Rats was banned in New South Wales
because it shocked (a) a small boy in
Tasmania and ( b ) a detective-sergeant of
the Vice Squad who didn’t know that
Shakspeare’s first name was William and
who has since retired to manage a hotel,
but it remains the best novel dealing
with this war I’ve read by any writer,
Australian, English or American. Glas-
sop was born in Newcastle, worked on
the Newcastle “Herald” before the war,
and the early chapters of his novel deal
with a city very much like Newcastle.
* * * *
“Macnell”: We were standing by the
tanker Cyrena, who had piled her 8000
tons on Kitava Island at 13 knots. Came
a message from Naval Board; “Proceed
with all dispatch to assistance of S.S.
Reynella, aground in Jomard Straits.”
Then the signals started; signals to
Cyrena telling her we were off; mes-
sages to our Navy tug to follow us at
her full eight knots; message of cheer
to stranded Reynella ; frantic signal to
the other Navy boat to return our tow-
ing wire ; urgent signal to Naval Board
acknowledging receipt of orders. The
air fairly sizzled ; and through this battle
of the ether sneaked a message from my
wife: “Happy anniversary.”
* * * *
“Kelmsco”; The little Cockney in a
West Perth factory was learning fast.
He’d discovered the futility of trying to
buy striped paint, his search for a pound
of. colander holes had befcn unsuccessful
but enlightening, and he’d spent two
hours in a hardware store while the
assistants obliged him with a long
weight. But he persisted in a half-
cheeky, half-respectful habit of touch-
ing his cap to everyone he met, and the
foreman suspected a stifled “.Sir” at each
salute. One morning the Londoner
came through the gates as the Big Shot
was alighting from his car, and the fore-
man saw the boss wince as he replied
briefly to Cock’s greeting, “ ’Go’s that
bloke?” Cock asked as the boss went
into the office. The foreman spoke off-
handedly to drive home a lesson in de-
mocracy. “That’s Ted Faraway, the
managing director. Decent old bloke.”
“Is ’is name Ted?” Cock ejaculated.
“Blime, ’e won’t arf be mad! I bin callin’
’im Butch.”
* * * *
“Findy”: When my seven-year-old son
reported a couple of weeks ago that he
had seen a bus with a Perth sign up
passing the corner of our Sydney
suburban street I suggested he was mis-
taken, but he insisted he was right. I
pointed out that buses don’t operate on
trans-Australian routes, but he wouldn’t
retract. “It’s easy to make a mistake,”
I told him. “Perhaps it was Petersham
or Penshurst.” “No, it was Perth.” Go-
ing a bit further afield I offered to con-
“I told you not to leave the house while these squatters are about."
cede him Penrith, but he wasn’t having
any. It was Perth or nothing. Patiently
superior, I said, “Why not say T thought
it was Perth’ and let it go at that? Any-
one can make mistakes.” He refused
to budge an inch. It was Perth and that
was all there was to it. Today I received
a country paper from a relation in South
Australia. Among other items it recorded
the arrival in the town of three 45-pas-
senger buses en route from Brisbane to
Perth. Said the report, “The present
drivers took charge in Sydney on Mon-
day.” Monday was the day my hopeful
made his announcement. My apologies
will be made at dinner tonight.
* * * *
“Shavia”: Saw an Adelaide trammie
turn a neat one the other night. It was
a packed picture-crowd tram, and a
smart aleck shoved eight ha’pennies and
four pennies at the conductor in payment
of his own and his girl friend’s fares. To
make matters worse he added in a loud
voice “How d’you like that, Charlie?”
The “connie” sweated on him when he
over-rode his fare one stop. Told it
would cost him another section ticket,
the bright one blustered that he’d have
to change a pound note. He did, too,
receiving in change a pocketful of silver
and copper. “How do you like that ?”
ask the “connie.”
**■ * *
“Keswick”: Sideshows at Adelaide
Royal Show included the usual comple-
ment of freaks and fantastics which, de-
spite universal education, seem to make
as much appeal to this enlightened gene-
ration as they did to our ignorant fore-
fathers. There was Chang, the Midget
Chinese Man, the Smallest Man on
Earth; Übangi, the Tiny Pigmy Woman
from Savage Africa; Zandau, the Enter-
taining Quarter Boy, direct from U.S.A.
by Pan-American Clipper—l wonder
whether he got here at quarter fare? In
contrast was Denis Duffy, the Irish Giant.
Patrons interested in unusual horseflesh
could take their choice of Wee Burnie,
Australia’s Smallest Horse, 23in. high and
four years old ; Wee Walla Walla, the
World’s Smallest Trotter in Harness,
26in. high at four years (he’ll have to
look to his laurels if Wee Burnie is
broken to harness); Ajax, the World’s
Tallest Horse. If anyone produces a
taller neddie Ajax’s owner will be hard
put to know how much to pay up; his
offer is £lOO guineas. Then there are
King Kom, the Giant Brindle Bull, 6ft.
high, 14ft. long and weighing H tons ; the
Continental Performing Pigs, cute, clean
and clever; the Variety Dog Show; the
White Mice Circus and a four-legged
consolidated twin male and female bird,
progeny of a double-yolked egg. Perhaps
they were all worth the entrance money.
I couldn’t say—l sdt out to see the Royal
Show, but didn’t get any further than the
city theatre that was tempting children
with a holiday feast of cartoons —20 of
’em in one session.
* * * *
“Norther”: About the time this was
written Queensland Parliament was de-
bating a bill to put a stop to southern
manufacturers making gifts to Queens-
landers who send back a wrapper or
portion thereof to prove they’ve bought*
the product. I don’t know whether it will
cause sundry makers of soaps, breakfast-
fodder and similar wares to sell out and
go up the bush, but it’ll be dashed annoy-
ing for the fathers of youngsters saving
wrappers for a picture-book, stamp album
and so forth. Anyhow, it seems a com-
paratively harmless practice. I once got
a handy encyclopaedia out of tea
wrappers.
* ♦ * *
“Melbn”: I have the utmost sympathy
for Lud Mayor Connelly in his almost
lone-handed fight for a Brighter Mel-
bourne, but I’m against his latest move-
ment. He has appealed to property-
owners to face-lift the city, and one build-
ing mentioned is the Town Hall, a beauti-
ful building. It has been proposed to
“wash the dirt off”— i.e., the patina, which
Nature over several generations has pro-
vided. I was looking at it the other
evening and observed how lovely it
looked. Washed and brushed and covered
with a monotonous layer of cement and
white paint, it would look as ugly as the
Baptist Doric temple adjacent. It is
alleged that the cement is necessary to
preserve the building, but Nature long
ago learnt how to do that, and in Paris,
where the old historic shrines are never
cleaned, or public statues, either, her
wisdom is respected.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: These con-
founded scientists are steadily capsizing
all our most cherished 4 beliefs. Patho-
logy-Professor J. B, Cleland of Adelaide
is the latest offender, with the icono-
clastic announcement that the human
brain hasn’t any grey matter in it at
all, its only real tints ranging from
vinaceous fawn to light ochraceous
salmon, whatever they may be. He
quotes a certain Alexander Monro junior
as having, in 1813, described the color of
the brain surface as resembling burnt
wood, and the Penny Encyclopaedia of
1839 as terming it “cineritious,” scientific
lingo for the color of ashes. But, how in
blazes are the drill sergeants of the future
going to handle boxed rookie squads?
“As you were! And use a bit of
yer blinkin’ vinaceous fawn (or light
ochraceous salmon) matter, if there's any
there!”
* * * *
“McGlum”: At Haisho we were not
badly off for reading, having been
allowed to bring about a hundred books
from Ambon. As time went on wear
and tear took toll and other volumes went
up in smoke. Those not literary minded
found that the paper was an improve-
ment on leaves and cement bag for the
wrapping of tobacco. Unfortunately they
destroyed" good literature, passing over
the Deadwood Dicks and mush. I owned
a paper-back of poetry. From Chaucer to
Rossetti, \and used to read it when there
was nothing else to do. Inside 12 months
I had no use for the book. I suddenly dis-
covered that unconsciously every word,
from the foreword to finish, had been
memorised. No, I didn’t use it for rolling
gaspers, but some other lunatic did. One
of the most surprising things that ever
happened at Haisho was the gift of a
beautifully illustrated David Copperfield
to one of our boys from a pro-Jap Indian
doing sentry at Jap H.Q. Then there
was the copy of Three M~n in a Boat in
the possession of The Boy Wonder, com-
manding an ack-ack battery. He lent it
to me on condition he received a book in
return. He got a Wodehouse, didn’t like
it, and asked for a book about the British
Navy, which he adrmred. I dug up The
Navy in Action and never saw it again.
* * * *
“Bureau”: From Brisbane comes a
report of a businessman who wished to
become a tax agent. He forwarded his
application, together with the fee of £l.
That was early this year. The Deputy-
Commissioner replied that the case had
bfcen referred to a Higher Authority—
and kept the quid. The applicant chased
his money. He was told that he had
“failed to satisfy that he was a fit and
proper person to be registered under
Part 7A of the Income Tax Assessment
Act, 1936-47.” The applicant wanted his
money refunded. He was informed, late
in August, that “a cheque representing
refund of your lodgment fee was for-
warded to you by the Deputy-Commis-
sioner of Taxation last month.” Later,
hfe got the cheque with the memorandum:
“Being amount of refund due you on
account of excess instalments of Federal
Income Tax.” That’s a pretty good start,
with nationalisation only just beginning.
When the thing is going properly that
applicant would be fined for upsetting
the bureaucrats,
* * *
“Gretn Hills”: A large tyre bounced
from the top of a passing load, hurdled
the kero, and came to rest against the
front of Brisbane's Criminal Investigation
Branch. Unaware of the loss, the driver
went on. Return ;ng, worried, later in the
day, he found the missing cover leaning
on the outside of the detectivery. He
dashed up the steps, shook the duty
official’s hand, lavished praise on the
efficiency of the branch, and departed
leaving a puzzled “demon” wondering
what it was all about.
* * * ♦
“Curtain Raiser”; Any amateur
theatregoer ever noted the incongruity of
the pictures hung by some producers on
the walls of the rooms in which scenes
are ostensibly played? A recent example
observed in Melbourne was a mid-Vic-
torian drama in which a drawing-room
was decorated by a watercolor by Harold
Herbert, a landscape by Will Rowell, a
still life by Mrs. A. M. E. Bayle and
several etchings by Victor Cobb. I had
never realised that Australian artists were
so popular in England in those far-off
days.
* * * •
“X.S.”: A demonstration of the fallacy
of the belief that quicklime causes dead
bodies to vanish (B. 3/9/’47) was pro-
vided when a huge scoop used for the
Tech. College extension on the site of the
old Melbourne jail some years ago un-
earthed the remains of 22 murderers who
had been interred in quicklime between
the inner and outer walls of the grim
prison. Tibias, femurs and skulls came up
in almost perfect preservation, and when
a skull emerged opposite the initials
“E.K.” carved in the stone of the wall
there was a wild rush of small boys for
possession of this almost incredible relic.
A man took it to his cabin, intending,
as he declared, to sell it to the highest
bidder. When I suggested that the re-
mains of even a highwayman had rights
he decided to hold it. Next day there
was a public outcry at the Government
for permitting a scramble for the bones
of people who had already paid the full
price for their malpractice. Actually,
there was no proof that the skull was
Ned Kelly’s, but that’s beside the point.
* * * *
“Steve”: It happened at Wirth’s Circus
a few years ago, in Hamilton, Victoria.
Just as the show was due to start the
nervous excited lioness pushed through
the bars and softly padded from the
ring to the “front door.” The drummer
jumped to the microphone and begged
the crowd not to panic. He clicked ; the
packed tent sat tight! The lioness stalked
under the seats, reappeared, then went
under the next section to settle idown, the
crowd, Casing away, leaving her crouch-
ing, with tail weaving and smacking the
ground. The drummer stayed at the
“mike” entreating the packed house to
keep calm, and Miss Wirth grabbed a
rope and ran across to the animal, her
movements galvanising others into action.
Trainers, artists, tent-hands began closing
in, as Miss W. dropped a loop over the
lioness’s head. The second throw roped
the “cat” and willing hands threw a net
over her. She clawed and snarled, but
her brief freedom was over. The other
big “cats” were brought in, the trainer
whipped them to their stools and the
show went on. (And did I punish that
“mike”!)
BUTTERFLY HUNTING.
“The rare butterflies stolen from Australian
museums have been recaptured and restored in good
condition.”
Some hunt such insects winging
Their ways through meadowy scenes,
Where vernal birds are singing
’Mid Nature’s golds and greens,
And when they capture any
Rare species of the many
Equipped with knobbed antennae
What ecstasy it means!
But there’s another genus
Of lepidopterist
Regarded as a menace
By every scientist.
These go a-hunting under
Museum roofs for plunder,
And furnish cause for wonder
Such miscreants exist.
One came with depredation
Perceptibly his end,
A curious combination, •
A quite unusual blend
Of some predacious codger
Beneath the Jolly Roger
And (say) the Artful Dodger,
Whose exploits Dickens penned.
He must have been a dab at
Eluding watchful eyes
With every furtive grab at
Our precious butterflies.
What pride in executing
This masterpiece of looting
May well have filled him, scooting
To England with his prize!
Vain hope! Our pilfered cases
No more their treasures lack.
For Law was on his traces
And Justice on his track.
And now they chant Te Deums
In insect mausoleums
Attached to our museums.
The missing goods are back!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Conda”: These writing boys! Con-
sider a report of a R.A.A.F. plane scouting
for half a ton of T.N.T which a Catalina
en route to stranded Reynelia jettisoned
off Sandy Cape. Surely the R.A.A.F.
knows better; they might find it with a
deep-sea diver. The boys told me all
shipping in the vicinity had been warned ;
all, apparently, except my frigate, which
at the time was 12 hours off Sandy Cape.
Anyway, the danger of “a floating block”
of T.N.T., which won’t float, being deton-
ated by a ship’s stem is as remote as
the stars. T.N.T. is one of* the most
inert and hard-to-explode bangers we
use, and, compared to its detonators, ful-
minate of mercury and lead , azide, is as
easy to fire as a wet match.
* * * *
“Bo”: Most Sydney suburban train-
travellers will testify to one admirable
feature of the Hartigan administration;
the non-garrulousness of the guards.
Particularly are they tested in this when,
as often happens, there is a hold-up along
the line. Less strictly-disciplined servants
of the travelling public might be tempted,
after the train had been stopped between
stations for over half an hour, to go the
length of the eight carriages giving pas-
sengers some idea whether they might be
there for another hour or if there was a
possibility of the trouble being fixed in a
few minutes. The Hartigan Guards, with
stout determination, confine themselves
to their little. compartments and stare
resignedly out of the window until the
train starts again. One can always note
on the faces of those homegoers sitting
in long-stationary trains looks of gratitude
at having been spared the chattering of
some official bent on telling them what’s
doing.
* * * *
“Becks”: Thank goodness September
15 has passed. For weeks I have been
annoyed every time I switch on my radio
by a dramatic voice warning me: “Don’t
forget September the fifteenth —the last
day for entries in the pink pages of the
Telephone Directory.” For nearly two
years I have been trying to get my name
in the white pages. I don’t suffer from
color prejudice, and I’d take pink, green,
yellow or any other color the P.M.G.
likes to give me. Unfortunately he
won’t put my name in any section until
he carj give me a phone, and this he de-
clines to do, giving as his reason short-
age of instruments, shortage of cable,
shortage of posts, shortage of switch-
boards, shortage of labor and shortage
of everything but shortages. So far I’ve
accepted his excuses, but why should he
add insult to injury by this pink-pages
gossip? Anyway, if the P.M.G. wants to
make money out of his directory why
doesn’t he copywrite the opus and col-
lect space rates every time a “columnist,”
hard up for material, thumbs its pages
and drags out an unusual name in order
to vamp up a would-be humorous par?
# # * *
“Ron J.”; Digby, once a bank manager,
was crazy on surfing but got precious
little of it notwithstanding that he lived
near the water. He had to be content with
brief forays between household chores.
He could scarcely claim to have retired ;
he had only left one job to take on an-
other. It was his wife who had downed
tools. Making the best of it, he developed
a technique that gained the maximum
time for splashing about during his snips
of freedom. His trunks were always
next to his skin, a towel hung perma-
nently near the back gate and, once on
the beach, he kicked shoes and shorts off
as he sprinted towards the breakers.
Dropping his strides one day on what
appeared to be an empty beach he was
surprised and flattered when scattered
parties revealed themselves to toss him
a welcome. They not only waved to him
but they stood up to do it. He waved
back. They persisted and he began to
wonder if he was really the focal point.
He was not long in doubt. Several men
“Why don't you get YOUR hubby to help you with the shopping, too,
Mrs . Blobbs?"
converged on him, grim and
savage., Then he realised what it was
and down he went, flat on his belly,
squirming and wriggling deep into the
soft, enveloping sand. He had forgotten
to put trunks underneath his shorts.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: There are many
ways of cutting a long story short, but
a unique method was employed by a
stranger in a Perth bar to terminate a
rasping rendition of a popular song. As
the stalwart with the urge to sing was
rupturing his larynx in an effort to
capture a note three octaves above his
head, the music-lover reached up and
placed a round tobacco tin in his wide-
open mouth. Then he moved smartly up
the street with the singer’s friends in hot,
though vain, pursuit.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A reverend father
remarked at an A.B.C. Forum of the
Air powwow in Melbourne that,
“although he had not met a child who
listened to Parliamentary broadcasts there
might be such monstrosities.” It drew the
retort from the chairman that his 12-
year-old son listened to Canberra and
was no monstrosity. He added a rider—
when asked what he thought of a par-
ticular broadcast, the boy had replied:
“It was good-oh tonight—there were
plenty of brawls,” and he found it dull on
another occasion because “nobody was
kicked out.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Current screening of Great
Expectations recalls a legend that
Dickens based this story on letters from
a Sydney friend. The character of Miss
“Make less noise—you know your mother's a
light sleeper."
Havisham closely resembles that of Judge
Donnythorne’s daughter, who lived in
Newtown, and was buried in Camper-
down cemetery. Miss Donnythorne was
to have married a seafaring man and
elaborate preparations were made for
the wedding. On the wedding day the
groom did not turn up and was never
seen by the bride again. Miss Donny-
thorne decided to live a life of seclusion.
The front door was fastened with a chain,
she never went out and received no
visitors, the only people seeing her being
the tradesmen, who passed goods in
through the partly opened door. When
she died it was found that what was to
have bfeen the wedding breakfast table
many years previous was undisturbed.
The tablecloth crumbled at the touch,
mice had made holes in the wedding cake
and cobwebs covered cutlery, crockery
and everything else on the table and in
the room.
* * * *
“Nakh”: “Beneath this quaint tree, at
Glenelg, the colony of South Australia
was proclaimed by Governor Sir John
Hindmarsh on December 28, 1836. The
old tree has been preserved and main-
tained and stands today, despite the
ravages of time, the first milestone in
the establishment of the State,” runs the
legend under a picture of the old Pro-
clamation Tree at Glenelg in a tobacco
advertisement in my morning daily. I
hate to be a nark, but this picturesque
tradition is a furphy, although it is
solemnly celebrated annually and the
tree was pictured on the S.A. Centenary
stamp. My grandmother, who was pre-
sent as a girl at the original ceremony,
pointed out 25 years later that the Corot-
esque bent tree was not the right one,
although even then it had become the
accepted symbol. It would have been
surprising, anyhow, if Sir John had read
his instructions from the Crown on a
day that happened to be a scorcher under
a tree that gave no shade whatever. The
tree he actually selected was a tall and
handsome giant near by. It fell to the
woodman’s axe a few years later. Ade-
laideans subsequently selected the present
deformed specimen, no doubt because it
resembled a triumphal arch or something,
* * * *
“Shavia”: It was a cold wintry after-
noon in Stalagluft VI, Heyderkrug, near
Memel, Lithuania, when
a special parade of all
p.-0.-w. was called by
the camp commandant.
About 2000 of us —
Aussies, Kiwis, Tommies,
Canucks and a smatter-
ing of a dozen other
nationalities formed a
hollow square wondering
what it was all about. In
marched scores of
“postens,” all unusually
heavily armed, taking up
positions about 10 yards
apart and slightly behind
our ranks. Next came
the commandant, sur-
rounded by staff officers
and still more guards.
He read out in German
a lengthy statement which
few of us could under-
stand, then passed it on
to his interpreter to read
in English—it was the
story of 50 Allied officers
murderfed during a mass
escape from Stalagluft
111. The silence lasted
for a second or two,
while we sensed the
guards behind keying
themselves to a tense
pitch. The commandant’s
party looked uncomfort-
able, as though awaiting a sudden
outbreak of violence. We looked
around and noticed the watch-tower
machine-gun crews had been streng-
thened, their weapons trained on us.
Then, from the far side of the parade
came an unmistakable Australian voice:
“Some of you bastards will swing for
this!” They will—l 4 of them.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: A less-lethal object
than the steel discs jettisoned by
“Zake’s” lorry-driver (B. 3/ 9 / ’47) re-
cently provided a purple patch in the
humdrum routine of our Brisbane street.
From a delivery van a cylindrical bundle
of afternoon papers was propelled in the
general direction of a newsagent’s shop.
Across its trajectory stalked a flapper
featuring the newest spring modes. The
lass vainly tried to hurdle the missile,
which, with all the power of the press
behind it, shore cleanly through her
flimsy skirt, which trailed in two wind-
blown wisps from her hips. Like a
startled deer she fled into the shop, thus
cutting short the refreshing interlude
provided for the instantly gathering
crowd, which, if they had seen the same
flapper in less-concealing beach trunks,
would not have given her a second
glance.
* * * *
“Bill W.”: Informality in p.-0.-w.
custody (B. 27/8/’47). In the Benghazi
Handicap our A.S.C. convoy stopped
long enough to capture a band of Itie
stragglers and loaded them on to one of
their own trucks taken some weeks previ-
ously. Thereafter we resumed our
attempt to put as much desert as possible
between us and the Fritz force behind us,
tremendously superior in weight of
numbers and arms. Some miles on, the
Itie truck with its prisoner complement
struck trouble which could not be
remedied on the spot. Chucking a few
tins of bully to the prisoners, we jettisoned
them and continued our retreat. That
night when our convoy halted our spell
was interrupted by a cloud of dust,
which we took for the first of Fritz’s
flying columns. When the dust cleared
we found that it was caused by our lately
abandoned prisoners, who had managed
to get their vehicle started and dutifully
caught up with us.
* * * *
“Lucretia”: At the time Morant was
sentenced I was in Pretoria as an officer
of the Field Intelligence Department re-
ceiving instructions as to an endeavor to
get in touch with Boer leaders in the area
in which my column (Pilcher’s) was
operating, notably Christian de Wet,
whom it was desired to ask to attend a
preliminary peace parley —subsequently
held at Klerksdorp early in April, 1902.
The enemy generqls already approached
were hedging and were using the inci-
dent in which “The Breaker” and his
pals had been concerned as a reason why
they should not parley. The general
opinion in Intelligence circles was that the
three officers were to be offered as scape-
goats to the dissident Boer generals. At
no time, then did I hear any talk of
placating Germany, or any other Con-
tinental Power. The British Navy at that
time could have taken care of the lot.
* * * *
“Pater”: I used to tell my children a
story about a wicked king who, hating the
sound of church bells, had their clappers
-torn out, and who forbade his subjects
to sing and laugh. At this stage
my kiddies would be looking wist-
ful, and to ward off the deluge I used to
give the yarn a happy ending—boiling
the king in oil. But now I feel like cry-
ing myself, for the monarch still lives.
He is the police chief in Pawtucket, in
the U.S.A, Because a native of the ham-
let owned a “loud, long-ranged laugh
which he was in the habit of turning on
in public places whenever he felt like
it” the cop threatened him with arrest.
The jovial bloke gave a mighty guffaw
and was hauled before the Beak and
stung two dollars. The only semblance
of a happy ending in this story is that
when news of the persecution came to
the “National Laughter Week Founda-
tion” of New York they invited the vic-
tim to come to their city and “laugh all
he pleased.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: This hiccup busi-
ness (B. 27/8/’47). May 1 quote my old
teacher, who was probably quoting some-
body else? :
A young lady cursed with a hiccough
Tried every darned cure she could piccough,
Till at last she found out
The best without doubt —
Warm water and salt in a ticcough.
* * * *
“It Would”: These camera-finishes
make us old hands sick. We held our
annual in a paddock specially chosen
for its endowments —a pub at each end.
On one occasion, coming to the last race,
the judge, while mounting his rostrum,
displayed signs of instability. The horses
flashed past the post and he declared
the piebald the winner. Red-coat as-
assembled the field and had to announce
there was no such animal in the race.
Judge reeled slightly under the shock and
altered his decision to a dead-heat —the
grey mare and the black gelding.
ALLEGORICAL.
“In the 1943 election campaign Dr. Evatt said
that under a Labor Government, there would be
more room for private enterprise and business in-
itiative after the war than ever before.” — Fadden.
It’s bitter medicine for politicians
To be reminded, by unpleasant quotes
From office files, of certain propositions
That they advanced when they were seeking
votes,
Followed by queries as to what conditions
Have intervened to make them turn their
coats
And eat their words of other days —a feat
At which Doc. Evatt would be hard to beat.
Nothing would better suit, I think it certain,
Him and a lot of other worthy souls,
And save them from embarrassment and hurt in
Progress towards their Ministerial goals,
Than some variety of iron curtain
To hide their sentiments before the polls
From projects they are ready to begin
Once they are safely and securely in.
It brings to mind a tale of Browning’s telling
About a bygone Cardinal in Rome
Who hung a fishing-net above his dwelling
Somewhere adjacent to St. Peter’s dome
As evidence, conclusive and compelling,
Of how he came from a plebeian home
And gloried in his previous lowly lot
And meant that it should never be forgot.
It worked. Such humbleness beyond forgetting
Earned him a reputation rich and rare
And raised him to an even higher setting
In course of time, i.e., the Papal Chair.
But when they next looked for the fishing-
netting
To men’s extreme surprise it wasn’t there.
Said he, to someone who expressed a wish
To know why nqt: “Son, it has caught the
fish.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


&
9*
&
H 0
0*
so
o^
U*
O’*
oo^
-Sj
%
%.
** cv" % %
L^ c \s
vpp
dP
C*
°V
CO
o'*
0^
!fO
*ft 0 '
VA^
H**
***
b*
i«»P,
<P V
S°
cP>
/
s«* 6
so*>
*«*
0 6 0*
t - A
o*'H W>
p>
sF
oc
&
O'*
AtBOiJ m worn from
WHEY
From Sydney to Britain by Q.E.A. and 8.0.A.C. is 3 days
(by landplane): to Middle East 6 days (by flying boat): to
U.S.A. 5I days. Thus, 8.0.A.C. links Sydney with the
cities of the world.
Every year 8.0.A.C. carries 150,000 passengers on the
72,000 miles of routes shown on this map. These are flown
by B.O.A.C’s 640 pilots, more than 100 of whom have over a
million miles’ flying experience behind them. Men who have
learned how in the 28 years of B.O.A.C’s flying experience.
Australian Representative: Shell House, Carrington Street, Sydney.
General Agents : Qantas Empire Airways
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Townsville, Cairns, Port Moresby, Lae,
Darwin.
Booking Agents in all cities.
SPEEDBIRD ROUTES ACROSS THE WORLD
BOH
Linking Australia with: Britain. New
Zealand, Far East, India, Middle East,
South, East and West Africa, Canada,
U.S.A.
Q.E.A. operate the Flying-boat service between Australia and Singapore,
and the Lancastrian Service between Australia and Karachi. T.E.A.
operate the service from Australia to New Zealand.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS
EMPIRE AIRWAYS, SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS.
02/AU
FOR PERSONAL
MtURAl BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
In and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL RANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
3. Al BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL Nf #
RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
\,ghtw£ ,ght
Fihished In woven-striped, water*
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
is increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINSTON LTD.
Wholesale only
T HE SERVICE MAN
Chambers's "New Model."
“A costly joke.”— Blarney.
“Ek Dum”: The remarkable Minister
of Defence or Forceps has announced
the formation of Australia’s Citizen
Army—so,ooo men, made up into two
infantry divisions, one armored brigade
group and ack-ack units for fixed de-
fences. From the details it is obvious
that Mr. Chambers is no Cromwell.
Exactly how it will be possible to
maintain such modern formations out of
a citizen force of 50,000 which will have
14 days’ camp in the year and 24 days’
home training, half optional, might puzzle
the average constructor of armies. It
presents no problems to the Minister of
Forceps, for the simple reason that what
he intends to produce is only an excuse
and not an army.
If he and'his colleagues could manage
it, they would wipe out the army
altogether, since it is extremely unpopular
with the Communist leaders from whom
the Ministry receives its orders. The
policy of these people is that the U.S.S.R.,
their fatherland, i& the only Power which
should be alloweo to have an army, all
armies which might be used to stem
"No wonder he complained of a gnawing pain!”
Russian aggression being the emanations
of Fascist Imperialism.
Even the Russians, who train almost
all boys and girls in the use of the rifle
under a voluntary system which works
because those who don’t volunteer are
apt to find themselves in concentration
camps, could scarcely object to Mr.
Chambers’s army, which is calculated to
be rather a help than a hindrance to an
enemy, on the present scale of training.
js-s-^srs.
The territorial plan which has been
evolved is sufficient to make any Jap
shudder-with laughter.
New South Wales and Queensland,
with nearly 1,000,000 square of
country and all the coastline exposed to
attack from the north-east, are to be
“covered” by feeble forces.
Queensland, the most vital aiea, will
be defended by one infantry brigade and
one infantry battalion, which works out
at one man per 100 square miles, .plus
one field artillery regiment and dm-
sional and corps troops.
New South Wales is to remain the
H.Q. of the Second Infantry Division,
which will consist only of a brigade and
two-thirds, one battalion of the second
brigade on the establishment being in
Q “"her State will also be defended
in part by two field artillery regiments
one field engineer regiment, ack-ack tor
fixed defences, divisional and corps
troops, two armored regiments, one motor
battalion and armored brigade ancillary
troops.
In effect, citizen defence of N. S. Wales
will consist mainly of words—especially
if Queensland has to borrow the ack-ack
outfit, having none provided for co-opera-
tion with citizen troops there.
Victoria, as the H.Q. of the Third
Division and of the Australian “Army,”
will have two infantry brigades, less one
battalion (this will go to Tasmania), and
other units much in line with N. S. Wales,
South Australia’s infantry brigade will
really consist of two battalions, the third
battalion being in W.A. And W.A., with
its long, vulnerable coastline and its
vital strategic ports and positions, its
one-third of the continent, is to defy
the foreign foe with one infantry bat-
talion training 14 days in camj), 12 days
regular and 12 days optional in the year,
plus an m.g. battalion, an F.A. Regi-
ment and coastal and ack-ack defences—
on a scale which might be counted on
to hold off a couple of frigates and a
troopship if the enemy gave six months
notice in writing so that the defending
troops might get a little training and
signed an agreement to land at a place
chosen by the defenders,
Tasmania will have an infantry bat-
talion with the usual accessories,
In order that nobody may suffer too
much shock at the imposition of this
mighty army on the economy of the con-
tinent, it will be brought into being—
according to the Minister—-in gradual
stages. By Herculean effort, perhaps,
assisted by that great war organiser
Senator Don Cameron, the Governmen
expects to be able to appoint a couple
of divisional commanders in Jaj ary,
seven months aftei the passing f
Al W estimates. ,
By the following July, after six months
Meanwhile the training of the per-
manent army of 19,000 men will begin,
though so far there appears to be a
reluctance on the part ot wholly suit-
able men to offer themselves.
H.M.A.S. Warrnambool lost.
Naw Minister announced on
J* that a t 5.45 p . m . on September
j™jj.M. A . S . Warrnambool, of the 20th
Minesweeping Flotilla, struck a mine off
Q Gre^vi f le about 120 miles south of
r £ York
P * k - n d ou triaht —
A * n T H Hvland Wvnyard
Ab!e S stoker R G Garret/ West
and Stoker R.. G. w
s'outh
were mostly
c Travis g R . A . N „ Sydney,
. ■ d - j oU
A b ree of the . o c wan
the way to Cairns m H.M. . • •
The corvette was engaged in e P
sweep a big minefield, laid early m the
war against the possibility of a
invasion, when she hit a contac


'it
I
V/,
mxsM
’
A
s
m m
m : -y .
;■ .
n
X-
II
Exclusive f
an
chaste
design
WUNDERLICH METAL LETTERS and name-plates impart dignity
attractiveness, and permanence distinct from ordinary P ainted ® ter ‘
Wunderlich craftsmen are adept m producing letters. nu merals and
name-plates of cast or built metal, also of cast bronze with mfils of
vitreous enamels.
AT LEFT:
Vitreous enamelled cast
bronze modern, block
letters and numerals.
Available in various
sizes.
BELOW:
Built up Stainless Steel
lettering to special
design.
| \kffluncl&tlicJv
Metal letters
1 1 BUILT • CAST • VITREOUS ENAMELLED
VISIT OUR SHOWROOMS OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS. WUNDERLICH
LIMITED. ESTABLISHED OVER 55 YEARS, BAPTIST STREET. REDFERN. SYDNEY.
BRANCHES- NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.; BRISBANE, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON PERTH: H. L BRISBANE & WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
I) 0 9
/
/
/
555
'■ v r, ,
‘3ss 'frftSukwfA (PSeaAe,
the horned-type most familiar in pictmos
-and sank in about an hour.
It A i in b q e U co y wi* the £»«£-
the limited man- and ship-power avail-
able for the task of dealing up. I
fj s taTe Teen expected 'to
come through" mtae-sweepiny gt.ons
without some accident, and its skin a
cool courage are beyond praise.
More Tragedy in India.
“Ek Dum”: Little noticed abroad,
■xcept in Moscow, the dreadful events o
he border lands of the Punjab between
he new India and Pakistan go on.
One incident in Old Delhi seemed more
than anything else to bring what has
happened into its true perspective Loot-
ing was in progress. An Indian Deputy-
Chief-of-Staff, a major-general, went out
into the street with his revolver and shot
half a dozen looters. There were no
arrests, no trial. The matter was dis-
missed in a brief paragraph in one or
two Australian papers.
The vastness of what is happening up
there in the grey, flat jungle country
along the banks of the Five Rivers from
which the Punjab takes its name is almost
inconceivable to anybody who does not
know something'of the country. From
East Punjab, which is the Hindu area,
nearly 1,500,000 people have been moved
into Pakistan and a vast exodus is still
in progress. Where the exiles cross the
border is the vortex of the great dis-
turbance. Round the distant edges little,
by Punjab standards, has happened yet,
though that little is horrible.
A knife is so easy to carry in the loose
clothing of an Indian. No policeman is
likely to see it until it is used. So m
Bombay, in Calcutta, the same scene is
duplicated. A white figure pounces on
a turbaned passer-by. There is a shriek,
a death gurgle.
There are districts roped off by
police and there are strict curfews. In
Hyderabad and in Mysore, Tippoo’s old
kingdom, there are much raising of the
Congress Flag against the princely rulers
and much use of missiles carefully stored
up against need—stones, bits of old hem
and the discarded container of belaiti
pani —“sodavyater.”
The Border Quiet
Up in the North-West along the border,
the disturbances have not yet reached
their finer fury because the hillman is
down in the valleys tending his flocks.
But presently he will go home and oil his
old Martini or new Enfield, or whatever
is the fashion, and set forth on a
ferocious shikar after Hindus. Down
Kohat way Afridis or their like set
upon a battalion of the old Bombay
(now Indian) Grenadiers, killed 22 and
wounded 94, losing themselves 40 killed,
60 wounded and 40 prisoners before they
discovered that about a third of their
military victims were their co-religionists.
The centre of the trouble, however, re-
mains in the area round Lahore. In that
area from north, south, east and west
all has been, and is, confusion, slowly but
surely flowing down the Grand Trunk,
as down a river, Sikhs fleeing from Mos-
lems and Moslems from Sikhs and
Hindus.
Last week the scenes enacted round
that grey centre were such as had not been
seen since the days of Aurangzeb. At Sial-
kot, on the hill fringe of the old Punjab
military area, north-east of Amritsar, the
Moslems were busy forcibly trimming the
beards of Sikhs to Moslem standards
a dreadful indignity which in Sikh eyes
can be atoned for only with blood.
Murder in the Punjab
Down the Grand Trunk, 30-odd miles
out of Lahore, a long, miserable, hungry
column of 20,000 shuffled into Kosur
from the lands towards Simla. From
Faridkot, from Patiala, from Nabha they
came. Infuriated Moslems fell upon the
helpless mass as sharks attack a fish
shoal. They died in heaps but went
on inexorably, the living behind stepping
carefully over the dead in the grey dust,
and 2000 wounded struggling along
with the help of their friends. The Diwan
Bahadur S.P. Singha, a tolerant Christian,
said, after he had seen the awful exodus.
“I cannot get the sight of the maimed,
the fiendishly wounded and the acid-
burned people from my mind.”
Many of these people might have had
a chance to travel by train to comparative
safety. But trains in the Punjab are
death-traps and in any case most of them
have ceased to run. At September 5
only 10 per cent, of the normal passenger
traffic was in operation in the Lahore
division, about one-third further north-
west in Rawal Pindi division, approaching
Peshawar, and 50 per cent, in the real
border country athwart the Indus in the
Mooltan-Quetta regions.
What had happened, however, further
north-west of the Punjab was a mere
circumstance to what had happened
further down the Grand Trunk, for the
tide of bloodshed had reached the
capital in the very heart of Congress
rule at Delhi.
Delhi is two cities. The New city is so
new that the writer stumbled through its
beginnings a mere 20-odd years ago with
its architect, Sir Edward Lutyfens—-an un-
tidy figure, laughing at his own joke of
putting topi roofs against sunstroke on
small bungalows, then the only buildings
complete of all the present grandeur.
In the distance across a dusty plain
as flat as your hand lie the red walls of
Old Delhi, with the minarets of the great
mosque of the Juma Masjid rising out of
the huddle within. The mouldering
tomb of Humayun, where Hodson en-
acted the dreadful aftermath of the siege
of ’57, stands on the plain, and, between
the road to the Kutab Minar and the
Jumna, the scarcely perceptible remains'
of a still older capital dot the plain.
All this has an air of expansive open-
ness, at present singularly uncomfortable
for the bulk of the Hindu and Moslem
workers in the Government offices of
New Delhi, since most of them prefer,
with the mateyness of Indians, to dwell in
Old Delhi quarters such as Karol Bagh,
a most inconvenient region from which
it is necessary to run the gauntlet of one s
adversaries on the way to New Delhi.
Slaughter in Old Delhi
Old Delhi, from the more open spaces
round Skinner’s Church (St. James’s), the
ruined arsenal and the Kashmir Gate to
the gates on the New Delhi side, is a
nightmare place to contemplate in a time
of massacre, especially in the area south
of the main thoroughfare, the Chandni
Chauk, or street of silver, around the
Juma Masjid. Medieval Paris had
nothing on it for alleys and bolt holes.
Indians have been making the
most of it, their bloodthirsty devotions
being interrupted to some extent by police
and a curfew which keeps the bulk of the
inhabitants indoors except for two or
three hours a day. From sunset to sun-
rise, under the order, they must not leave
their houses.
This measure, which is in operation not
only in the two cities of Delhi but also
in Calcutta, Bombay, Karachi and other
places, is peculiarly uncomfortable in
India, where a large proportion of the in-
habitants eat and sleep on footpaths.
However, no measures short of chloro-
forming the whole population could keep
Delhi from bloodshed when that way
bent. So, while the futile Congressmen
wring their hands and mutter that it is
all “veree regrettable” and wish the
sahibs were back, Delhi citizens have
been indulging in an orgy of looting and
slaughter reminiscent of the stories of
Flora Annie Steele.
Thfe riots broke out first in the
winding streets of the Old City near the
Juma Masjid, in whose immense court-
yard thousands of Moslems were camped.
Hindus and Moslems fought with spears
and rifles until Gurkhas put an end to
the bloodshed with pointed tommy-guns.
Then the trouble spread to other
quarters pn some scale, though previously
there had been sporadic brawls, often
caused by refugee Sikhs or Moslems
seizing the houses of astonished house-
holders of other religions to compensate
themselves for the homes they themselves
had already lost before they fled their
native cities.
The furious business spread to New
Delhi, where Sikhs, maddened by the news
of the indignities which their own people
had suffered elsewhere, dragged scream-
ing Moslems, men, women and children,
out of the Lahore mail at New Delhi
Station and cut them to pieces with
knives, while Hindu soldiery and police
looked on.
All available forces were turned out,
including the Viceroy’s bodyguard, but
few troops save the British and the
Gurkhas were much use, since all the rest
were partisans and stood by inert.
Twenty-four hours after the bloody
struggle began, bodies lay in pools of
blood in the streets, some brained with
rocks, some stabbed to death, while un-
heeding Delhi passed by in the Delhi
fashion of the ages, leaving dogs to sniff
the weltering corpses.
Towards the week-end it seemed that
the disturbance was spreading eastward
into the United Provinces.
The business is not over yet. As the
cool weather comes in, and India springs
to life, the danger will certainly increase.
The Governments may in the end have
to ask the British to return and restore
order.


ASK FOR
V ' / &
PERSONAL ITEMS
There were extremes in age in the
connoisseurs who tasted the wine at
the Melbourne Showgrounds last week —
80-year-old Francois de Castella and
Douglas Seabrook, son of Thomas Sea-
brook, one of Melbourne’s leading ex-
perts. It is seven years since the old viti-
culturist retired from the game, though
he still wields a robust knife and fork
at the Wine and Food Society’s monthly
banquets and exercises his acute taste on
the beverages assembled. After sipping
a wine on one occasion he said: “That’s
good wine. Grown by the sea, I fancy.”
It was the product of the private vineyard
of Edward Muir, the Collins-street dentist
who cultivates grapes on the Mornington
Peninsula. De Castella’s acquaintance
with wine was inherited ; his father went
from Switzerland to Lilydale, Victoria, in
1852 and produced wines that have held
their own for generations against the
rarest imported. Douglas Seabrook joined
his father’s business after leaving school
at 14. He had a well-developed palate
when he enlisted as a commando in the
late war and he didn’t lose it. His father
was senior judge. The art or craft seems
to run in families; E. P. Thompson, the
vigneron from Great Western, had two
sons to assist him. Wine-making has
occupied the Thompsons for three genera-
tions.
A switch-round in judicial circles in
Sydney takes Justice Roper from the Land
and Valuation Court to become Chief
Judge in Equity and Probate Judge.of the
Supreme Court, Justice Sugerman resign-
ing from the Commonwealth Arbitration
bench to succeed him in Land and Valua-
tion. Roper was only 36 when he first
sat as a Judge 10 years ago, the youngest
man ever appointed in N.S.W. Born at
Orange, he graduated in Arts and Law
at Sydney Uni., and in 1921 carried off
University Medals in mathematics and
philosophy. One of his accomplishments
is an almost professional dexterity at
parlor card tricks. He is a member of
a family with three thumbnail bio-,
graphics in Who’s Who; the father, long
retired from the Lands Department, is
still active and alert in the late eighties.
Justice Sugerman is himself below
the average age of Supreme Court
Judges; when he joined his learned
brethren of the Arbitration Court on the
40-hour case last year he was 42. He
was admitted to the N.S.W. Bar in 1926
after a University career cluttered up with
exhibitions and prizes, and is a former
editor of the “Australian Law Journal”
and the “Australian Digest.”
Adelaide’s first post-war Royal Show
packed ’em in to an extent confusing to
a newspaper, which, after five determined
attempts to describe the scene depicted
in a photograph of the Grand Parade,
broke down completely and informed
readers that “the crowd in the centre
is a bull, which temporarily escaped
from its attendant.” Less overwhelmed,
but highly gratified at the success of the
Show, was Harold Finnis, secretary of the
Royal Agricultural and Horticultural
Society of S.A. since 1926, on whose
shoulders most of the organising work
of the September Show. fell. Finnis is
a member of the S.A. Public Library
Board and the National Park Board, is on
the council of the Crippled Children’s
Association and was at one time secretary
of the Agricultural Bureau and the Aus-
tralian Wine Board. In his spare time
he horticults. ’
Westralians may not be happy over
the report on their railway workshops
presented by Royal Commissioner A. J.
Gibson, but at least they’ll have the know-
ledge that it was written by a man who
knows his subject. Gibson, born in
London, came to Australia as a young
man after serving an apprenticeship in
a Thameside engineering works and put-
ting in a spell in Shanghai as an engineer-
ing draughtsman. He joined the N.S.W.
Public Works Department, lectured at
Sydney Uni. for seven years, and then
went to Brisbane as Professor of
Engineering. Seconded to the Munitions
Department in World War I, he became
chief engineer of the Commonwealth
Arsehal, Then followed three years as
superintendent of construction at New-
castle Steelworks, after which, in 1922,
he joined George Julius, and has since
practised as a consulting engineer. In his
W.A. report he told the Government that
its Midland Junction workshop had begun
in a small way 50 years ago and had
been inbreeding in a small way ever
since.
Frederick Eggleston’s announcement
that he does not intend to accept any more
oversea assignments has been connected
with the resignation of Hasluck and Mac-
mahon Ball. More likely Eggleston feels
that at 71 he has done enough world
wandering in his country’s service. His
record is impressive: France with the
A.1.F.; Paris, with the Australian dele-
gation to the 1919 Peace Conference;
Institute of Pacific Relations Conference,
Honolulu, 1927 ; Kyoto, 1929 ; Yosemite
(U.S.A.), 1936 ; Minister to China, 1941-
44; San Francisco Conference, 1945;
Minister to U.S.A., 1944-46. In between
missions abroad, he was seven years in
the Victorian Parliament and held* several
portfolios.
When the N.S.W. Minister of Local
Government brings in his bill to wipe out
more than 50 councils and municipal
authorities in the County of Cumberland
in order to give the people the unsought
benefits of his 14-City Plan, one of the
members striving to catch the Speaker’s
eye will be Philip Henry Morton, here
depicted by Heth. As a Mosman aider-
man —he was Mayor last year—Morton,
the fourth member of his family to reach
the Macquarie-street temple of talk, has
been a staunch advocate of the principle
M.L.A.
that Local Government can best be car-
ried out by local men. Mosman Council
has been very active in, its opposition to
the Greater Sydney plan as its citizens
found recently when the sky rained
leaflets attacking the scheme. Morton
won the Mosman seat at the last election,
standing as a Liberal against Independent
member D. P. Macdonald. Old hands
thought Macdonald a sitter, but Morton
earned out a vigorous house-to-house
campaign and won handsomely.
Back in Hobart from Oxford with de-
grees of B.C.L. and B.Litt., R. W. Baker,
Tasmanian Rhodes Scholar for 1939. He
was in Britain when war broke out and
returned to Australia to enlist in the
R.A.N., completing his term at Oxford
after the war. A first-class tennis-player,
he captained the Oxford team and com-
peted in the Wimbledon doubles this
year, defeating, with Kitovitz, the Polish
Davis Cup pair, Helda and Skowiki.
Archdeacon Thomas O’Donnell, the
fighting Tasmanian cleric who has been
told by Premier Cosgrove to hold his
tongue on the subject of bank expropria-
tion, isn’t likely to be unduly intimi-
dated thereby, having once done a spell in
the Tower of London with the whole
Empire talking about him. Landing in
Dublin when the Black and Tan business
was in full bloom, he was arrested. The
court-martial that followed caused a great
hubbub and the controversy reached the
House of Commons. The archdeacon’s
innocence was proved—he had previously
toured Australia in support of conscrip-
tion, had gone abroad as a chaplain with
a letter from the Australian P.M- to the
British Commander -in - Chief in his
pocket, and had served in France. This
is not the first brush be has had with a
Labor Premier, Albert Ogilvie having
ordered his name to be scraped off the
foundation stone of the Royal Hobart
Hospital, of which he had been chairman.
He was born in Victoria,
An addition this year to the flock of
judges at Melbourne Show is Roy Hicks,
who was a star performer in the ring as
a schoolboy. When he was still learning
irregular Latin verbs at Scotch College
he owned Highland Laddie, who in his
time won 552 jumping events. Other
champions Hicks has ridden are Kentucky
Nero, Tarzan, Bronze Wing, Chatterbox
and Raffles. During the last war he
bought remounts for India in Albury and
Tallangatta districts. His son is studying
veterinary science.
Dead after a long illness, which he
bore with fortitude, Alphonse Parer,
brother of Damien Parer, who lost his
life taking war photographs after his
“Kokoda Trail” picture, became part of
history. Thousands of Diggers who made
the Plaza Hotel at Wynyard station,
Sydney, their club will mourn Alphonse
Parer, for he was a generous friend
to all men in uniform, and a firm adviser
and father confessor to those who needed
it, A sworn enemy of blackmarkets, he
was an independent hotel owner of the
old school who took a great pride in
maintaining a high ethical standard in his
particular corner of the trade. Every
member of his staff —one of the biggest
in Australia —holds him in affectionate
memory, for there was no more consider-
ate employer anywhere.
Left for London by flying-boat, Dr.
Darryl Smythe, of the Commonwealth
Medical Service, on his way to Berlin to
vet D.Ps. chosen to come to this country
under the refugee immigration agreement.
He is a Brisbaner who graduated at
Queensland Uni. in 1944.
After seven and a half years in the
R.A.A.F., Squadron-Leader H. T. Roper,
newly appointed Director of the Mel-
bourne Zoo, will probably find taming
lions and tigers chicken food. Roper
learnt his flying with the Royal Naval
Air Service in 1914, and with the out-
break of peace went back to tea-planting
in Ceylon, where one of the estates he
managed mustered 5000 coolies. That’s
where he learnt the animal lore which
helped to get him his new appointment.
Knowing him for an intensely enthusi-
astic amateur, natives brought him every
type of jungle beast from mousedeer to
the big cats, and his private zoo was a
lively replica on a small scale of the one
he will soon be in charge of. Not the
huntin’ and fishin’ type, he preferred ob-
serving to shooting the wild creatures.
In Australia on leave in 1940 he joined
the R.A.A.F. and survived 18 months at
No. 1 Recruiting Centre, Melbourne, be-
fore going on as senior administrative
ZOO DIRECTOR.
officer to the Somers camp, where his
son, training as air-crew, took it with the
other lads. Roper helped considerably
with the clearing out of the Melbourne
Showgrounds. When Strawberry moved
in he pitched his camp at Laverton, tak-
ing over the duties of senior administra-
tive officer, the job he now leaves.
Canadian diplomats these days have
lots of obstacles to surmount when told
to pack up their traps and move to other
climes. When Judge Davis left Aus-
tralia for Chungking he took with him
four pre-fabs. in which to house his
staff. His successor, Kenneth Alfred
Greene, didn’t have to bring a house with
HIGH COMMISSIONER.
him, but had to go almost round the
world to get here ; no Pacific passage was
available, so he came via Britain and
Suez. Greene, drawn here by Prior, is a
jovial, approachable person, big and
cheerful, and with a fund of good stories.
He is not the first of his family to come
here—a brother of his grandpa humped
a bluey in Victoria during the gold rush
of the ’fifties. Born in Ottawa, he has
been in the insurance game most of his
life, and has been director of some of
the biggest companies in the Dominion.
In the first German war he fought with
the Canucks in France ; in the Second
among other jobs he was, chairman of
the committee charged with the care of
refugee children from Europe.
Dead in Melbourne at 79, Councillor
Baron Marks, G.O.M. of the Melbourne
City Council. A member of the Stock
Exchange he was active in good works
for Jews and the general community.
He was a life-governor of Royal
Melbourne Hospital and most of the
other leading hospitals in Melbourne;
vice-president of the Victorian Amateur
Football Association, and Past Senior
Grand Master of the Masonic United
Grand Lodge of Victoria. He received
the Grand Lodge jubilee medallion after
50 .years’ membership of the King Solo-
mon Lodge. He was a member of almost
as many committees as the late James
Barrett.
Into the Silence:
At Toowoomba, Talbot F. M. Stanley, one
of Queensland’s foremost railway maintenance
engineers. He had lived in retirement for some
years. He was associated with the construction
of several major railway projects, including
the Dalby-Tara and Wetherton-Gayndah lines.
His father, Colonel H. Stanley, had been Chief
Engineer for the Queensland railways.
At 81, Harry J. Stephens, of the A.B.C.’s pub-
licity staff and former editor of the “Farmer
and Settler” and of various country news-
papers. De Garis engaged him to found and
edit the “Sunraysia Daily”; later he was pub-
licity officer for the National party and editor
of the “Land.”
In Sydney, at 80, A. C. Blaxland, great-
grandson of Gregory Blaxland, who blazed the
Blue Mountains trail with Lawson and Went-
worth. A member of the Forestry Advisory
Council and a strong advocate for the salvation
of red-gum forests on the Murray by annual
flooding with irrigated waters, he was known for
far-sighted articles in the rural press.
In Adelaide, at 75, Marie Tuck, a noted artist
of the past. She was one of James Ashton’s
many students in S.A., and then had eight,
years in Paris, mostly under Rupert Bunny.
She has a large oil painting in the Adelaide
National Gallery.
In Melbourne, at 52, W. G. Smellie, senior
.electrician of the State Electricity Commission,
who pioneered the Yallourn State coalmine and
made three trips to Europe in connection with
the briquette industry. He was to have de-
signed the processing works at the huge new
projects at Morwell.
In Sydney, at 60, Frederick Hutchins, one-
time chief of the N.S.W. Education Department.
He started with the old Sydney Tech., was
secretary to several Ministers of Education,
Registrar of Sydney Conservatorium and secre-
tary of the Bursary Board.
In Sydney, at 70, Ernest Arthur Prior, Chief
Industrial Magistrate of N.S.W. since 1928.
He was admitted as a solicitor of the Supreme
Court in 1923, and earlier in his career was S.M.
at Wollongong and P.M. at Nyngan.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Introduced by M. Loubere, Vice-
Consul for France, Sydney and Mel-
bourne girls displayed French originals
and reproductions at the gala opening of
the fashion parade sponsored by a large
city firm. Much to the delight of the
audience, quite a few of the reproduc-
tions were much more attractive than the
original designs, and proved that “Aus-
tralia can make it.” It was a nice
thought of the sponsors to give the pro-
ceeds to the Food for Britain Appeal.
Simplicity ■ was the keynote of the
fashions, and every design shown could
be worn with ease by most Australian
women. Skirts featured unpressed pleats
and drapes for both formal and casual
wear. Stripes and spots and checks were
popular. Newest feature is the coat
lining matching the frock and the use of
soft pastel shades, especially blues, pinks,
grey and green.
Sheer white organdie formed the puff
sleeves of a navy sheer evening gown,
and a blue-and-silver taffeta crinoline
gown had a strapless top of glimmering
silver beads and sequins. Next in beauty
was the black Chantilly creation worn
over a pink taffeta petticoat. There were
many attractive gowns worn by mem-
bers of the audience. Norma Parting-
ton wore a pale-pink lace evening gown
with her silver fox cape. Mrs. J. Rogers
had a hip-length blue wool coat over
her black dinner gown. Her daughter
Ann threw a white wool reefer coat over
her black lace-topped crepe dinner dress'.
Mrs. Andrew Swan wore a white beaver-
ine coat over a black dinner skirt and
white lace blouse.
The cold, wind-lashed rain stung riders
in the Ladies’ Point-to-point race at the
Findon Harriers’ meeting at Woodstock.
Spectators, prepared for the weather,
were wrapped in tweed suits and heavy
top coats. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Bernard Heinze, who, by the way, has
entered into her third term of office, wore
a three-quarter-length royal-blue wool
coat with her light grey suit. In her
party were her sons, Julian and Adrian,
Mrs. Arthur Joyce and her four children,
Pamela-Mary, Tony, Margaret and Joan.
With Mrs. Jack Lynch, wearing a suit
of checked wool, was Mrs. A. E. Shilli-
day, who chose a black wool suit and
matching top coat trimmed with Persian
lamb. Mrs. George Maxwell watched
her husband, Major George Maxwell,
compete in the Men’s Open Hunter Plate ;
with her was Mrs. Frank Watts, whose
husband, son Ron and daughter Shirley
were all competitors during the day.
Enjoying a picnic lunch in their car were
the Master of Findon, Noel Mason, and
Mrs. Mason, and daughters Kathleen
and Ailsa. General Tom Blarney was a
keen follower of the sport. Mrs. M. L.
Baillieu and her sons Lawrence and Mar-
shall were others who followed the ex-
citing events.
Sydney artists who are included in the
Merioola Group had a splendid opening
day for their show in the Myer Mural
Hall Gallery. Mrs. R. G. Casey, who
opened the proceedings, heralded spring
with a burnt-straw bonnet which she
wore with a dyed ermine coat. Jocelyn
Rickards attracted attention with her
blue corduroy velvet suit and bright-pink
silk sari. Laurel Martyn, who had just
spoken at the opening of Lesbia Thorpe’s
show, wore a perky black-feathered tam-
o’shanter with her black suit. Vvith Mrs.
Isobel Green was her daughter, Mrs. Ron
MacGregor. Mrs. Fred Hammond, wear-
ing a mist-blue wool suit and pink-and-
blue chapeau, came with her daughter
Margaret. Mrs. Chester Guest and Pene-
lope Nettlefold tried to get the meaning
of the surrealist group, but soon gave up
the unequal struggle. Pondering also
over the pictures were Margaret Cochran,
Minna Salere and Mrs. lan Potter. Mrs.
Alan Moore was with her artist husband,
whose own show opens at George’s
Gallery in a few weeks. Mrs. Redvers
Bate and her daughter Manon, Mrs. T.
Warburton and Mrs. Harold Holt were
others who attended.
An engagement that has aroused in-
terest in ’varsity circles is that of two
popular members of the teaching staff :
Joyce Patricia, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. C. E. Cottman, of Regent, is wear-
ing the five-diamond ring given her by
Alan Ralph Wannop, younger son of Mr.
and Mrs. R. L. Wilson, of Surrey Hills.
Joyce, who is an old P.L.C. girl, is a
B.Sc. and a demonstrator in physics, and
also tutors in maths. Alan, an old Wes-
ley collegian, is lecturer in physics and
tutor at Queen’s College.
A classical gown of silver lame featur-
ing an unusual embroidered front panel
was chosen by Heatherbell Scarborough
when she was married at Christ Church,
South Yarra, to Eric McManis. Her
mother’s halo of orange blossoms held in
place o the tulle veil embroidered with
silver and she carried a bouquet
of hyacinths, violets and gardenias.
Heatherbell, who is the younger daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. S. Scarborough, of Kat-
anning, W.A., was attended by her sister,
Mrs. E. F. Campbell, who was matron-
of-honor, and bridesmaids Jean Thomp-
son and Lorna Rowley, all of whom
carried posies of W.A. wildflowers. The
tonings of the kangaroo paw in the
posies were repeated in the carmen-red
frocks of satin-backed morocain, em-
broidered in green. The ’groom is the
second son of Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Mc-
Manis, of Eastwood, Sydney.
Pat King, who has just left Merton
Hall, the C. of E. Girls’ Grammar School,
is indulging her super-favorite hobby for
three weeks at the Melbourne Little
Theatre, where she plays the part of
“Sadie” in Irene Mitchell’s production of
“Exercise Bowler,” by T. Atkinson, who
is a pseudonym for several English
authors. Pat is the daughter of Mrs.
Roy King and the late Group-Captain
King, who was commandant at Point
Cook during the last war, and in the
First World War won a splendid
reputation as a fighter pilot. Pat, who
is a great booklover and has a talent for
painting, contemplates making radio her
profession.
The Free Kindergarten Union will
benefit by more than £9OO, the handsome
result of the Gala Dinner Dance given
by the Vic. Jockeys’ Association at the
Colchester. Hon. organisers were Mrs.
Harold Badger, whose white taffeta gown
carried an imprint of pale mauve flowers,
and Mrs. Theo Lewis, whose gown was
of floral satin. With Harold Austin was
his wife, in black crepe and a matching
jacket trimmed with sequins ; Mrs. Cecil
Walker, an attractive American, favored
a short dinner frock of blue and silver
lame. Mrs. C. Day’s frock of deep-
bronze-brown velvet was highlighted with
gold ornaments. Mrs. John Newton’s
black frock featured a net yoke em-
broidered with flowers outlined with black
sequins. Dawn Ingram chose a pastel-
pink organdie skirt with a long tunic
of matching pink embroidered organdie
over it. Mrs. Des McCormack’s short
dinner frock was of black crepe, trimmed
with black sequins.
Once again Mrs. Tim Jones has thrown
open her home, Ripponlea, to a good
cause, this time to the committee of the
City Free Kindergarten for a buffet
dinner dance, to help their candidate,
Jean Watson, in the “Miss Australia”
title. Mrs. J. Ewing, secretary of the
appeal, wore a dinner gown of black
crepe which had a knife-pleated skirt and
bodice. Mrs. Lionel Newton’s frock of
turquoise-blue crepe featured a skirt
draped on each side of the back and
centre seam, to give a “harem” effect
with a short slit at the front hem ; the
bodice was trimmed with blue beads.
Jean Watson’s frock was of pale mauve
crepe, the three-tiered peplum trimmed
with deeper-toned sequins.
Mrs. Margaret Saker allied her long
black crepe dinner skirt with a black
jacket, the front of which was sewn with
gold sequins. Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss threw
a blue 'fox cape over her deep-wine,
sequin-trimmed frock. Mrs. Ralph Wil-
son combined black frock and silver
foxes. Mrs. Bill McGowan’s strapless
gown was of apple-green velvet. Mrs.
A. Aitken, who came with her medico
husband, wore a flowing full-length
military cape of deep-wine velvet, with
blue embroidery on the shoulders ; under
it she wore a turquoise-blue crepe even-
ing gown. Mrs. Greville-Moran’s un-
usual black crepe gown featured a long
tunic with the hem tucked under to show
a slim-slit skirt. Lil Wightman wore a
black velvet evening gown, the bodice cut
with a low heart-’shaped neckline.
From Sydney
This writer was made completely
aware of spring last week by a gift of
wildflowers from Westralia. Of them all
a cluster of kangaroo paws was acknow-
ledged queen. These orchid-like blooms,
which exquisitely blend deep red (like an
old Chinese glaze) and dark green, set
the heart, though the pen be lazy, wing-
ing into a lyric mood. There is hope
here, too, that the soil of this land, gentle
enough to produce such beauty, will be
kind enough to produce grain in plenty
to help a starving world.
Randolph Churchill came down the
steps of the Town Hall, after his lecture,
last Saturday night, through an avenue
of hands, clapping hands, extended
hands. He must have shaken dozens of
them before he reached his car. “That’s
for your father,” said one woman, shak-
ing hands with him; and Randolph re-
plied, “I’ll tell him.” There were almost
as many women as men in the audience,
though the ladies were silent at question
time. Churchill, who is really a warm
friend of America, was a bit merry at
that country’s expense telling how he
could imagine the consternation at the
Hague when British troops were sent to
Indonesia to crush the Japs: “Why on
earth did all this have to happen?” (in
fancy he heard authority say). “Now the
Americans will know we have an Empire,
and will start nag, nag, nagging at us just
the same as they nag, nag, nag at the
British.”
Again, when asked in America what
was going to be done about the poor
Indians, his reply was that he did not
know there were any Indians left in
U.S.A. His serious note was; As long
as Britain and America walk hand in hand
there will be peace in the world. And
if this should meet the eye of Mr. Chur-
chill, let him be warned not to take
draughts of water when he is making a
speech—it just makes a husky throat
huskier,
Leone Stredwick, one of the stars of
the recent A.B.C. Youth Week’s con-
certs, has attained quite a number of
musicianship distinctions in her young
life. Leone, whose instrument is the
piano, gained a State Exhibition when
she was 10, her A.T.C.L. at 13 and last
year, from the Con., where she is a
student of Alexander Sverjensky, she won
her Teachers’ and Performers’ diploma.
She has played with the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra at A.B.C. young people’s
concerts in Newcastle and Sydney. She
started her musical education at St.
Mary’s College, Grafton.
Representatives of 84 of the city’s
women’s organisations sat spellbound
listening to Lady Nathan telling of the
work done by women on the county
councils and other local-government
committees of England. To the Aus-
tralian women it must have sounded a
fairy tale as probable as the story of
Dick Whittington. In this man-governed
or misgoverned country you can count
the women in public affairs on your
fingers. There are 31 women on the
London County Council, of which Lady
Nathan is chairman. There are about
4,000,000 people in the 65 boroughs under
its control. From the sudden gleam in
the eye of the visitor’s listeners, It. looks
as though the fight is really on. Civic
Fathers had better see to it that place and
power are not wrested from them.
The National Council of Women had
sent out the coo-ee to the sisterhood, and
the ballroom of the Pickwick Club was
packed out. After Lady Nathan rounded
off her talk questions were asked about
such matters as whether the new L.C.C.
Power House would obstruct the view of
St. Paul’s, and who paid for the hot
dinner now provided for the children in
the schools. The answer to the latter is
the parents pay sd. (or a reduced rate
where there are several children) and
authority makes up the difference.
President of the National Council
Ruby Board, Mrs. C. P. Johnson of
Y.W. renown, and the Feminists’ presi-
dent, Mrs. Worboys, were other speech-
makers. Margaret Gillespie, who was in
a group with Mrs. Henty, Dr. Fanny
Reading and Mrs. Muscio, was made
happy with an unexpected gift—a charm-
ing little fan delicately printed on rice
paper. It came from novelist Jo Mander,
now back in Java. Lady Nathan’s kins-
woman, Mrs. E. Salenger, was at the life-
is-real-life-is-earnfest party, while daughter
Margaret was among the butterflies of
Mrs. Tom Bateman’s party in the
adjoining room.
French fashion arbiter Pierre Balmain,
whose Fashion-round-the-clock talk,
with deftly presented mannequins, held
masses of Sydney women, last Monday*
fascinated to the point of forgetting that
clothes have still to be paid for in
coupons as well as cash, is a clear-skinned
medium-height young man in the thirties.
Pierre believes passionately in the longer
hem-line for women. There is even a
sultan-like gleam in his eye when he
mentions the hobble-skirt. But then he
has not had time to view our Alpine-like
street trams. If the hobble-skirt should
come in,' then Sydney women will have
to learn the kangaroo-hop,
Pierre has been completely surrounded
by cameras, dress materials, newspaper
women and models since his arrival by
flying-boat last week. He believes that
the fashion period that will have most
bearing on the styles of today and to-
morrow is that from the late eighties to
1914 —prior to World War I. This- he
considers a period of elegant femininity,
and Paris fashion houses try to recapture
the outline, if not the spirit, of those days
in the large muff, the long fur stoles, the
floating and graceful scarf, the haiid-bag,
the short, fitting bodice of the evening
and afternoon frock swaying out into
skirts of a graceful fullness.
As he talked last Friday morning in
his hotel suite the listener envisaged
stately reception rooms filled with grace-
ful creatures from the pen of Du Maurier
and Phil May. But no bustle bow# or
padded hip-lines for Pierre —they don’t
fit in with his idea of aesthetics. Asked
if any of the men who had designed or
thought up the extravagant styles in men's
clothes during the Restoration or Regency
periods had left their names to posterity*
Mr. Balmain confessed he had not heard
of one. He owned to a feeling for the
caped coats of the Corinthians, the satins
and brocades of Regency Bucks. There
was friendliness in his tone as he men-
tioned Beau Brummel.
Mr. Balmain has come here to create
fashions for Australian women. It will
be interesting to observe whether our
warm sunshine, the clear light that floods
our days, inspires him to something in the
Spanish manner. The last of his three
talks will be given at David Jones’s to-
day. Food for Britain Fund benefits.
Flora will be officially welcomed to
the Town Hall by Mayoress Bartley at
eleven o’clock today, and will reign there
with all her garden and bushland hand-
maidens till the evening. At half-past
eight a coronation pageant will bring
reward to the group responsible for the
most beautifully decorated exhibits (there
are to be stalls piled with delicate
stitchery, sweets and such joys). The
Floral Fete is a special effort for the
Country Women’s Association, and work-
ing hard for it are acting-president Mrs.
A. H. Baldock and presidents of branches
in the Metropolitan group.
This city is buzzing again with loud
talk from the intelligentsia about the
necessity for a National Theatre. No one
is a greater enthusiast for the theatre in
all its aspects than this Letter. But facts
are facts; great as is the need for a
National Theatre, the need of our re-
turned soldiers, their wives and children
is much greater and must strike more
deeply into the consciousness of a com-
munity for whom these young men
braved horrible and unspeakable perils.
Before we bend our minds to the build-
ing of a National Theatre, what about
seeing that sufficient homes are built for
the returned heroes?
Pixie O’Harris, whose gay and faery
murals have gladdened the hearts of
countless little patients in the children’s
hospitals of this State, has just published
a new fairy story replete with graceful
and imaginative pictures. This is the
story of “The Fairy Who Wouldn’t Fly’
and is full of delights for the young
reader. Pixie, very pretty and very
gifted, writes verse for grown-ups, too,
as witness Dr. George Mackaness’s Poets
of A ustralia.
Barbara Knox is rightly elated over
the success of her juvenile theatre, penny
plain, twopence colored, so pbpular long
years ago. The show netted £135 2s. 3d.
for Food for Britain. Daryl Lindsay,
of the Melbourne Art Gallery, over here
for the Society of Artists’ show, was
charmed with the exhibition, and has
asked Miss Knox to lend her whole col-
lection to the Melbourne Art Gallery.
Newcastle, also, will have a chance to
see the exhibition.


ONION 'TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
offers a comprehensive service
covering every phase of Estate Manage-
ment , Executorship and Trusteeship ,
and providing for the efficient control
and administration of all related matters ,
or your personal affairs.
The expert knowledge gained through
sixty years of Union Trustee experience
in these matters simplifies the handling
of all details.
This efficient service is available at
moderate cost.
siw*i
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland,
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager; John Larritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c. ; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g. ; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman) ■
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager),
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street—A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager),
Pastoral Inspectors; C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb,
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER ?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF.
To
GUTHRIDGE Ply. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-31 PITT STREET, SYDNEI
L. Afudford, Hamper.
Telephone BWI9SI for particulars
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Rubber Aus., Ltd.
Parent's Figures.
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
’37..410,409 10 p.c. 7 p.c. = 356,595 63,814 213,959
’38..414,702 10 „ 7 „ „ 856,596 58,106 272,065
’39..417,650 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 61,054 333,119
’40..450.505 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 93,909 427,023
’41..881.369 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 24,773 451,801
’42..375,768 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,282 94,486 546,287
’43..386,293 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,282 105,011 651,298
’44..380,316 10 „ 5 „ ~281,282 99,034 750,332
’45..392,118 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,282 110,836 861,168
Excess cost shares purchased, £89,133. . 822,035
Unexplained addition, £375 .. .. 822,408
’46..404,623 10 p.c. 5 p.c. = 281,282 123,341 945,749
Net reduction reserves, £10,105 .. 935,644
’47..509,830 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 394,252 115,578 1,051,222
! Goodwill ( £854,377 in parent’s books) not treated
as an asset herein.
The best result since 1929, when the
Perdriau business was welded into the
Dunlop organisation—now biggest thing
of its kind south of the equator—and the
550,000 £1 ords. in the Barnet Glass
Co. were bought at 325. apiece. Rubber
manufacturers generally madb a good
getaway in the transition race ; war-time
activities of the industry did not in
general compel any major alteration of
productive equipment and lay-out. Last
year tyre and rubber rationing ended
and there was a strong demand for all
goods produced by the co., especially
tyres—privately-owned cars had long con-
tinued in restricted use on patched shoes.
And the subsidiaries, including post-war
additions to the list, have the overflow-
ing order books that go with a sellers’
market, too.
Although the shoeing of new vehicles
fell short of early anticipations—the im-
port of chassis has been restricted by
economic and other factors —turnover
reached a record figure. So, despite rising
wage and other costs, net earnings were
written £105,207 better than the previous
year’s at £509,830. That was after allow-
ing an extra £26,202 for depreciation
(£160,978) and something for taxation,
but leaves out of the reckoning an un-
explained reduction in reserves of £10,105
net. The £509,830 covered pref. require-
ments (£93,000) and 11 p.c. on the
£3,765,655 of ord. capital, compared
with 8.2, 7.9, 7.6, 7.8, 7.5, 7.6 and 9.5
p.c. back to 1940—war contracts carried
very narrow profit margins. The cautious
board lifted the div. from 5 p.c. to 8 p.c.;
and it is doubtful whether better need
be expected for a while.
The price of the f.-p. pound ords.
advanced from the official ceiling of 295.
3d. at end 1946 to 38s. 9d. in June. The
figure last week-end, ex div., was 375.
9d., giving a return of 4.2 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. At 465. 6d. the 10 p.c,
prefs. yield 4.3 p.c. Net tangible cover
(combined figures parent and sub-
sidiaries) is £6 11s. Id. prefs. and 275. sd.
ords.
The satisfactory margin between last
year’s earnings and distributions, the co.’s
strong technical and financial position,
and the overall outlook for the entire
undertaking are encouraging features for
maintenance of the 8 p.c. Plants have
been unable to work to capacity, owing
to shortages of fuel, materials and labor,
and demand looks like running ahead of
output over a wide range of products
for some time yet. But these bull points
are offset by the certainty of increased
unit costs following introduction of the
40-hour week and final lift in the basic
wage—yet to be announced. The hope
that reduced working hours and more
pay will result in either increased effort
or uninterrupted production rests on very
insecure foundations while the present
sellers’ market for labor continues. Pro-
duction of an all-Australian car, expected
to be on the market during the last half
of 1948, should help offset the effects of
the dollar famine on American imports.
The co.’s big factory at Drummoyne
(Sydney) is being modernised and en-
larged ; no difficulty is anticipated in
connection with the supply of raw
rubber; and prospects for the sub-
sidiaries are encouraging. The offshoots
include Dunlop Sports Co. Pty., which
turns out tennis racquets, golf balls, etc.;
Bentley Bros. Pty., makers of high-grade
tennis gut; Dunlop Weatherproofs Pty.,
manufacturers of both weatherproof and
waterproof garments ; Battery Manufac-
turers Pty., producers of wet storage bat-
„teries; and Dunlop Simplex Pty., floor-
ing contractors.
Financially the undertaking is stoutly
ribbed;— •
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1939. 1946. 1947
Dunlop interest £4,695,655 £4,695,655 £4,695,655
Outside interest* 222,379 38,696 48 816
Reserves! .. .. 692,281 1,305,594 1,399,572
Liabilities. . . . 290,664 845,438 498,121
Tax reserve .. 112,270 246,954 385,690
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,216,009 1,043,786 1,060,845
Plant, etc 1,054,565 695,416 804,100
Stocks .. .. 2,116,460 2,085,599 2,120,120
Debtors . . .. 916,925 1,260,924 1,178,346
Investments, etc.. . 6,265 230,222 235,513
£ ash > ete 217,977 1,222,929 1,114,601
Rationalisation ace. 46,137
Goodwill .. .. 630,830 737,036 736,874
* Includes share undistributed profits, f Subject to
goodwill and rationallisation acount.
Last term £125,743 more was spent on
fixed assets than was written off, and
stocks increased by £34,521. Debtors’
balances were down £82,578, and the
large holding of cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £108,328. The more or less
liquid surplus was £57,482 stronger at
£3,764,769.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1938.. 31,468 12 p.c. = 25,750 I . qi , 11Q 01R
Written off freeholds, £3806 j 1,912 119,018
1939.. 31,283 12 nc. = 27 000 )
Written off hotels, £2383 j 1,900 120,918
1940.. 29,7 71 12 pc. = 27,000 2,721 123,639
1941.. 28,238 12 „ „ 27,000 )
Written off hotels, £2060 ) 122,817
1942.. 30,768 12 p.c. = 27.000 )
Written off hotels, £2500 j 1,268 124,085
1943.. 36,145 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) 0 ... 10 „ nan
Written off hotels, £6200 | 2,91£> 127,030
1944. . 39,367 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) R qfi7 lq , qq7
Written off hotels, £3400 j 8,967 135,997
1945.. 41,406 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) R Rnft ~,
Written off hotels, £B6OO I 5,806 141,803
1946.. 44,578 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) 7 nQI
Written off hotels, £10,487 ) 7,091 148,894
!947. . 42,733 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) . R 7, 7fi7
Written off hotels, £9860 j 5,873 154,767
It has been a steady 12 p.c. proposition
for the last decade. The question now
arises whether the 40-hour week, final
lift in the basic wage (yet to be an-
nounced) and impending economic de-
velopments are likely to interrupt the flow.
The market doesn’t think they will, and
it has sound grounds for its belief. The
price of the 21s. shares paid to 20s.
advanced from 525. 6d. (official ceiling) at
end 1946 to 645. last week. The return
at 645. is 3.7 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
Visibly the cover is 335. 9d. in net tan-
gibles.
The main sources of revenue are (1)
a half-interest (approx.) in Tasmanian
Breweries Pty., which also rents Cascade’s
old brewery premises, (2) hotel rentals,
and (3) manufacture of cordials. A
small wine and spirit offshoot. Traders
Pty., also contributes to the pool. Appear-
ances are that all sections of the business
are giving a satisfactory account of them-
selves. The board keeps the curtain
drawn over the brewing co.’s figures,
and is tight-lipped about its earnings and
distributions. Shipping difficulties cut
off the beer trade with the mainland dur-
ing the war, and have stood in the way
of its revival since; but for the same
reasons the co. was able to step into
former connections of Victorian brewers
in the flourishing north of the island.
And over the last few years there has
been a steady increase in consumption of
beer in Tas. But nothing extra appears
to have been passed on ; the improvement
in Cascade’s 1945 and 1946 profits came
mainly from the cordial factory, where
a new bottling plant, now on order in
Britain, is to be installed.
Last term shortages of bottles and
materials hampered output of both the
hard and the soft stuff. There was a slip
of £5351 in gross earnings (£86,051), partly
offset by savings of £3506 in exes,
(£43,318). The net result (£42,733, down
£1845) was 19 p.c. on capital as against
19.8, 18.4, 17.5, 16, 13.6 and 12.5 p.c.
back to 1941. Appearances are there-
fore that the margin between last year’s
net earnings and distribution is wide
enough to cushion the bump from rising
costs and reappearance of competition,
etc., without endangering the 12 p.c. div.
Some of the hotel properties are to be
rebuilt, and others remodelled, as soon as
labor and materials become available.
In conformity with the policy of reduc-
ing hotel properties to their land value,
£9860 was written off freeholds (in addi-
tion to ordinary allowance for deprecia-
tion) last term, making the amount thus
written off over the last decade £50,896.
The financial position improved;
1940. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages and
deposits .. 161,979 156,758 86.548 82,064
Other liabilities 5,274 7,989 8,307 7,623
Tax reserve .. 19,842 26,000 19,000
Hotels, etc. .. 306,398 316,248 291,094 293,865
Plant, etc. . . 95,500 98,551 90,804 93,622
stock • • 17,568 25,462 21,324 26,245
Book debts, etc. 38,840 42,059 25,045 25,759
Cash, etc. . . 13,972 208 15,336 13,712
Shares other cos. 64,646 64,646 64,646 64,646
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities, in-
cluding the tax reserve, by £21,675, an
improvement of £16,179 over the twelve-
month,
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net , Dividends — % To Re- Re-
July, Profit. t —Prof. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1937.. 19,715 9% 7% 7% 18,052 1,663 45,449
1938.. 20,838 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,786 48,235
1939.. 21,560 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 3,508 51,743
1940.. 20,833 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,781 54,524
1941.. 23,359 10 „ 8 „ 8,, 20,502 2,857 57,381
1942.. 27,580 10 „ 8„ 8„ 20,502 7,078 64,459
1943.. 33,268 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 20,502 12,766 77,225
1944.. 19,458 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 1,406 78,631
1945.. 19,541 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 1,489 80,120
1946.. 19,179 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,051 1,128 81,248
1947.. 22,129 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 4,077 85,325
* Excluding depreciation reserves, £878,149.
There is £245,061 of capital to feed in
44,878 first 8 p.c. and 182,183 second 6
p.c. cum. prefs. and 18,000 ords. The
prefs. rank in the order stated for divs.
and capital and advance point for point
with the ords. beyond 6 p.c. Over the
last 20 years those on the register have
never failed to receive an annual dis-
tribution, the average being 9.2 p.c. firsts
and 7.2 p.c. seconds and ords.
Moreover, the co. is well equipped,
technically and otherwise, to go on win-
ning satisfactory returns. It is in the
fortunate position of being the only
cement manufacturer of any importance
in the northern State; and the policy is
to keep plant ahead of advancing demand,
while at the same time making an assault
upon costs by technical and other im-
provements, thus strengthening the co.’s
competitive power. Achievements in
this direction have been strengthened by
cheap shell-lime from the co.’s own leases
in Moreton Bay, for haulage of which
another motor vessel was recently pur-
chased, Indeed, costs have been estab-
lished on a basis that will make it diffi-
cult for southern competitors—Goliath
(Tas.) was the chief one pre-war—to again
establish extensive connections in north-
ern markets.
Last term sales stepped up about 33
p.c. So, despite rising costs, to meet which
a lift in the selling price of cement was
authorised at the beginning of July last,
net earnings were figured £2950 better than
the previous year’s at £22,129. That was
after allowing for depreciation (£22,456,
up £4347) and something for taxation.
The £22,129 was enough to pay the prefs.
their minimum requirements, plus 6 p.c.
to the drds., and then show 2.7 p.c. on
the whole capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined) as against 1.6, 1.5, 7.2, 4.8 and
3.2 p.c. for the five preceding years. The
div. remained steady at 9 p.c, firsts and
7 p.c. seconds and ords.
On the market buyers offer 325. for
the ords., at which figure the return would
be 4.4 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The
firsts at 455. and the seconds at 365.
yield 4 p.c. and 3.9 p.c. respectively on
the basis of last term’s'distribution. Net
tangible cover (book value) is £7 7s. 2d.
firsts, 31s. 4d. seconds and £5 14s. lOd.
ords.
Since the heavier consumers of cement
—public works, factory, office and flat
buildings—are not yet at the head of
the list of building priorities, the outlook


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Anvr.
gfd
THIS
DUPLICATOR
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
?ho» all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
Butlt entirely in Australia
JACKSON
t, SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
& O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
r-v'.
* >..." . #4 1
5^ >V '
■■,
m mm&m
«s2>
■«>
ANY COUNTRY HOME CAN
NAVE A CITY KITCHEN
YW
The AGA Cooker brings all the comforts and conven-
iences of city cooking to country homes. Modern
appearance; sparkling "easy-clean" baked enamel
finish; special insulation—keeps kitchens cool—delicious
cooking by scientific stored heat in roomy ovens and
the convenience of having the AGA operating con-
tinuously at no extra cost.
Economical, too! Country owners have proved that fuel
costs are less than cost of wood —even when drawn
from their own properties. Every AGA is British made
and carries a double guarantee.
Y. It is guaranteed not to burn more than an arhazlngly
small specified quantity of fuel per annum.
2. It is guaranteed against faulty material or workman-
ship for ten (10) years.
If unable to see the AGA in operation in our showroom
write for catalogue—showing the complete range of
models.
AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St.. Sydney.
432 Bourke St.. Melbourne.
Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert
Sts., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G.
Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart.
W.A. Agents; Malioch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
f
THE A.C.A
ASSETS EXCEED £2,500.000
THE A.C.A. for SECURITY
*
A.C.A. POLICIES are GOOD POLICIES
*
v
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.
A.C.A. Building
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Call,'Write or Ring. Telephone BX 5 l
BRANCH OFFICES
IN ALL STATES,
D. J. MOONEY,
Managing Director,
demand. So dur-
ing the year addmons were made to
plant, etc., at a net cost of £27,295: -
1939. 1944. 1946. 1947.
„ -a, 0045 061 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Paid capital.. £245.061
? ed hTd " 20,976 21,115 21,190 21,190
«, reB * ol L “ 401 309 471.048 547,992 575,287
Plant, etc. 53*1.67 115,981 89,893 126,451
St o *,, " 40 111 30,027 31,803 87,599
Book debts .. 4 “’| 4g 66i52 8 72,551 20,698
Cbsii. etc. • • ’ , . . . ~
* Including provision for taxation.
Despite the outlay on fixed assets, the
more or less liquid surplus (£130,110)
was £3582 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Australasian Petroleum Co. Pty Ltd.,
which is backed by the big Anglo-
Iranian and Standard Vacuum oil cos. of
London and New York respectively, and
in which Australia is interested through
Oil Search, Ltd., is about to increase
nominal capital to £5,000,000 by the
creation of 3,000,000 new £1 shares, of
which 750,000 are to be issued, subject
to approval of the Commonwealth
Treasury. Oil Search—paid capital
£510,872 in ss. shares, with another Is.
(=£12,055) to come on 241,105 of them
—has approximately a 19 p.c. interest
in the operating co.; so it will be entitled
to take up about 142,500 of the new
shares. Oriomo Oil (paid capital
£162,234 in ss. shares), now entirely a
holding co., owns some 405,500 (nearly
20 p.c.) of Oil Search’s scrip. The pro-
prietary co.’s bore at Kariava (Papua)
has reached a depth of 9117 ft. without
striking a gusher. It is equipped and
powered (there are four Diesel engines
of 310 h.p. each) to go to 10,000 ft. It
holds exclusive rights to prospect for
petroleum over 9894 sq. miles in Papua
and 8918 sq. miles in the Mandated
Territory until end June, 1950. Geologi-
cal and other indications strongly sug-
gest the presence of oil somewhere in
the area being tested. It is therefore pro-
posed to sink another deep well, and at
least two, and possibly four, scout bores
are to be put down to a depth of about
6000 ft. each on promising structures.
The two new scout-drilling outfits now
being shipped to Port Moresby are
lighter and more easily transported than
the equipment at Kariava. They are to
be powered with Petman Diesels, and
their total cost was expected to be
around £160,000. Besides being a specu-
lative business, the hunt for oil today is
highly scientific, very expensive and often
involves the sinking of several wells be-
fore success is met with. The market
prices Oil Search scrip at Bs. sd. or
thereabouts. Oriomo shares fetch 3s. 9d.
* * * *
Interest in the old Cloncurry copper
field (N.Q.) has been revived by the
grant to Broken Hill South, Ltd., of an
authority to prospect some 1500 sq. miles
of country there. The Mt. Elliott co.,
a London-controlled concern which took
over the Mt. Elliott mine from Melbourne
interests in 1907, worked various pro-
perties on this field at a profit until 1913.
It was about to instal an electrolytic plant
at the end of the 1920’5, and talked of
a net profit rising from £320,000 to
£450,000 p.a. with electrolytic at £75,
London. But slump arrived and the
bottom fell out of the market. Since
then the field has been worked by
gougers, the ore being railed to Chillagoe
(until it closed down) for smelting. This
means that the eyes have been largely
picked out of the field so far as the oxides
are concerned. Efforts by W. H. Cor bold
and others to get the Government to
erect a smelter on the field were unsuc-
cessful. The deposits appear to be
patchy, but there is evidence of the
existence of a lot of medium-grade
copper ore; and old-time prospectors
could always get an ounce or two of gold
when copper crashed. As late as 1939
the Trekelano was producing 1000 tons
of 10 p.c. ore monthly, Mt. Oxide was
yielding small quantities of 22 p.c. stuff,
parcels of half that grade were being
got from fire Little Wonder, and a new
show, Ivena, was weighing in with car-
bonates averaging 15 p.c. As in the past,
costs will be the hardest nut to crack.
* * * *
Westralian Government has decided to
spend £75,000 on deep-boring at Collie,
the State’s one and only producing coal-
field. A dozen holes are to be drilled to
ascertain the extent and volume of coal
available. This plan is the outcome of a
comprehensive geological and geophysical
survey. Because of the effete railway
system, fuelling of Kalgoorlie and
Boulder goldmining plants with Collie
coal is unlikely in the near future. Act-
ing-Premier Watts recently told the W.A.
Assembly that 50 per cent of Government
railway locomotives would not . wor £’ f
that rolling stock was both msuffieient
and inefficient—a state of affairs m
herited from the previous Government.
Pilbara (W.A.), a goldfield noted for
limited but occasional rich finds, is i
the news again. This time two P ros P ec '
tors at Nullagine are reported to have
got 2074-oz. over the plates from a rich
leader. 'Since 1945 they claim to have
obtained 5540 z. Previous to that another
prospector took 300 oz. out of the sa
show. One of the biggest nuggets found
in Westralia was unearthed at Pilbara.
» * * *
A H Telfer, Secretary of Mines in
W.A., told the Grants Commission m
Perth the other day that most goldmining
cos. operating in the State, particular y
isolated ones, were having difficulty m ge -
ting labor, efficient or otherwise. Rising
costs, due to higher wages and increased
price of commodities, are leading to re-
assessment of ore reserves, and a Jot or
formerly payable but now marginal stult
will have to be left in the ground, unless
adequate offsets to soaring expenditure
can be found. He added that the Govern-
ment's mining activities include systematic
geological examinations, continued assist-
ance to prospectors, and overhaul of State
batteries, which now total 22. Number of
men now employed in the industry is
7707, about two-thirds the pre-war total.
* * * *
“Bullionist”: Money is being sought
in London to search for auriferous reefs
at Kurnalpi, about 70 miles north-east of
Kalgoorlie (W.A.). A lot of alluvial gold
was got on this field in the early 'nineties
of the last century, but extensive prospect-
ing failed to discover a reef or a lode.
There is still a dryblower or two trying
to make a living there.
* * * *
In the Chancery division of the London
Courts last month Justice Wynn Parry
refused W. Grundt’s application to re-
main a member of Great Boulder s
London board. Grundt retired by rota-
tion, but was not re-elected at the annual
meeting, and his place on the board was
not filled, nor was the number of direc-
tors reduced.
»< # * *
The big primary jaw crusher that Mt.
Lyell (Tas.) ordered in U.S.A. some time
ago is now being transported to the mine.
As soon as it gets into operation working
costs are expected to be reduced con-
siderably.


‘
:
/
(r
&
%
u- - q
r
<3
M
kss.
-4W^.
VJ.
iM
MA
m
%
\
L
:\
sae/
Streamlining and styling go a long way
• • • but they don't go ALL the way
The shrewd buyer knows that porcelain enamel can hide a multitude of sins . . .
mainly sms of omission. He (or she) knows that the omission of reliable sheet
steel and the substitution of steel that is merely “good enough" can ereote circnmstanee,
CoLo^SheelV* 5 ? " 8 T S,ream “ ni " g ca " tyntpensnte. The mannfactnrer who use.
Control Sheet Steel is always proud to say sot therefore every buyer will be wise to ask the
question, because the word “Con.rol" is, in itself, a guarantee of lasting quality.
s A
SR 1 /
M p A*
Qt
<3
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTRY
Commonwealth Rolling Mills Pty. Ltd., Head Office and Works. Port Kembla. N.S.W.
S^ffSS
SUNDRY SHOWS
BOROVANSKY BALLET.
The Borovanskys have presented four
programmes of a total of 14 ballets in
their current season and, with them, have
given a pretty fair indication of their
quality. They are good, very good, and
it is lamentable that they have not
always had full houses for their perform-
ances—to have established a professional
ballet company in Australia is some-
thing ; to maintain it at the Borovansky
standard is even better. Possibly Sydney
has been fed too long and too much on
fillums and comic opera froth; or pos-
sibly the sometimes unjustifiably severe
criticism directed at the Borovanskys may
account for some of the empty seats. At
any rate, it’s strange that a company
which can fill Melbourne theatres cannot
get full houses in Sydney.
Nobody, least of all the company
itself, would attribute perfection to the
Borovanskys, but after the usual run of
camphorated comic opera and vaudeville
which inhabits Sydney’s legit, theatre, a
ballet of the Borovansky class is some-
thing worth seeing.
The company’s main shortcoming i$
that it lacks a good, straight dramatic
dancer. It is working with three princi-
pal ballerinas—Edna Busse, Tamara
Tchinarova and Kathleen Gorham. On
the stage, anyway, they could be de-
scribed respectively as a fairy, a gypsy
and a coquettish pixie. In roles that call
or allow for such types they are excellent,
but once they venture beyond those limits
they strike trouble. Edna Busse, for in-
stance, is the company’s best dancer at
present, and there is something almost
exquisite about her unflagging lightness
and precision, but her dramatic range is
limited between elfin-like mischief and
gaiety and a slightly pathetic wistfulness.
Within those limits she dances beautifully
—in the passionless “Sylphides,” in
“Giselle,” and particularly in “Coppelia”
and “Le Beau Danube” —and her dra-
matic shortcomings only become obvious
in such roles as Remorse in the “Fan-
tasy on Grieg’s Concerto in A Minor.”
Tchinarova is similarly bound between
definite limits by the gypsy-like vitality
and abandon of her dancing. As the
street dancer in “Le Beau Danube,” the
Spanish Pepita in “L’Amour Ridicule,” in
the tango in “Fafade,” as Zobeide in
“Scheherazade” and as the dark, witch-
like Queen in “Giselle” she is excellent,
but one feels that she could not go be-
yond that type of role ; could not, for in-
stance, essay the part of the Woman
which Jonet Wilkie danced very well in
the Grieg Concerto.
Kathleen Gorham is set somewhere be-
tween Miss Busse and Tchinarova, but
she, too, falls by accident or intent into
a definite type. In “Facade” and as the
coquette in “Le Beau Danube” she seems
almost perfectly cast; but in the Grieg
Concerto, or as Australia in the not very
successful “Terra Australis,” it becomes
obvious that she has only a shaky hold
on any dramatic heights.
The lack of a straightforward dramatic
ballerina is paralleled by the absence of
a good all-round male dancer. Rubinstein
is the company’s best and he is excellent
by any standards, but, at present anyway,
he is spectacular to the point of flamboy-
ancy. As the Golden Slave in “Schehera-
zade” he is outstanding. He is particularly
good as the King of the Dandies in “Le
Beau Danube” and in the pseudo-Latin
roles with Tchinarova. His success in other
rdles will depend on even more rigorous
discipline, but of all the present Borovan-
sky company he seems the one most likely
to hack out a niche for himself in ballet
anywhere.
There is Borovansky himself, of course,
amazingly light, a master of mime and,
offstage or on it, the mainspring of the
company. His choreography at its best
is sparkling or interesting; at its worst it
sacrifices dancing for histrionics. In the
current performance of “Giselle,” for in-
stance, the pathetic little dance that fol-
lows the peasant girl’s “betrayal” was, as
this commentator remembers a previous
Borovansky performance of it, a simple
and charming sequence in which the girl’s
distraction never interfered with the danc-
ing. In the current version, however,
some most elaborate miming and gestures
have been added and the dance is almost
lost because of them.
The most successful ballets of the
current Borovansky season have been the
lighter ones and the comedies —“Cap-
riccio Italien,” “L’Amour Ridicule,”
“Facade,” “Le Beau Danube” and “Cop-
pelia” ; the least successful were the dra-
matic or such attempted dramatic dances
as “Terra Australis” and the “Fantasy
on Grieg’s Concerto in A Minor.” As
soon as the company adds to its present
composition a good, all-round classical
ballerina and a similar male dancer it
should extend its repertoire tremendously
and enhance its already established and
justified reputation.
The Merioola Group.
The -Merioola Group, of Sydney, has
brought its wares to Myer’s Gallery,
Melbourne, and its show would have
knocked that city endways if the local
cognoscenti had not been producing the
same sort of thing for a long time. In
fact, it might be said that time has made
the Merioola Group almost old-fashioned
—its painters belong to the school of
young modernist painters who, revolting
from academic conventions, paint strange-
looking subjects, but whose line is just
as coarse as an academician’s. In fact,
the only difference between them and an
academician is that the academician has
more skill.
A‘possible exception to this is Donald
Friend, who seems able to paint in both
ways. The observation in the one, how-
ever, is as commonplace as in the other.
Justin O’Brien paints queer, egg and
telegraph-pole like figures and calls them
“Boys Mending Nets” or “The Kiss of
Judas,” but it isn’t the form or shape that
makes the quality of a painting ; it is the
observation.
Loudon Sainthill has been looking at
the ballet and some of his designs have
been included in the exhibition. One
surrealist example called “The Actress,”
has caught the eye of the connoisseurs of
the National Gallery in Melbourne. The
body of the lady seems to have been con-
structed on the lines of a well-known
garden in one of Melbourne’s suburbs
designed to advertise the uses of concrete
piping.
Roland Strasser has a study of fire
dancers in Bali which has some quality of
observation, but most of the stars wear
this or last year’s artistic hat. In the
catalogue Constable is quoted, presum-
ably without that great old gentleman’s
permission.
Joseph Post and Amadio.
Not the instrument which the Queen
of the Night presented to Tamino but
virtuosity such as a John Amadio can
display might have inspired Mozart to
write his “Magic Flute.” The flautist,
after an absence abroad of 11 years, was
heard at Sydney Town Hall on Friday
night in the Mozart Concerto No. 2 in
D Major, K 314. The cadenzas of each of
the three movements brought out a flow-
ing melodic line and a crystal-clear tone.
The lyric beauty of the solo writing of
the Andante movement was fully ex-
ploited by Mr. Amadio against a finely-
pencilled orchestral background.
The rest of the orchestral fare was well-
balanced. The overture to Weber’s “Der
Freischiitz” had drama and power nicely
blended. After the double-basses and
’cellos had pointed the early thematic
material, the orchestra leaped into the
full brilliance of the “William Tell”
Overture, hustling the march along with
great verve.
Thfe clipped statement, the capricious
utterance, the mocking gesture, the con-
scious imitation of Mozart, all of which
combine to make up Prokofiev’s Classical
Symphony, were given adequate expres-
sion. The few ragged ends in the Lar-
ghetto were more than offset by the
sprightly daintiness of the Gavotte and
the lucid integration of the showy Finale.
Liadov’s “Enchanted Lake” was notable
for the work of the upper strings while
muted, and the tightness of Mr. Post’s
hold over his forces in the extreme pianis-
simo passages of the final phases. Mous-
sorgsky’s “Night on the Bald Mountain”
was alive with satanic revelry, and in the
folk tunes and dances of Dohnanyi’s
“Ruralia Hungarica” were alternations of
profound melancholy and infectious
gaiety.
Melbourne Tiv.
The pickpocket detected by the Show-
man at Sydney Tiv. continues to evade
the vigilance of the police and the ob-
servation of large houses at the BOurke-
street emporium in Melbourne. Mr.
Perry’s amazing talent for dredging valu-
ables out of people’s pockets could earn
him a considerable income outside
theatrical circles, and it is gratifying to
know that his dream is to become a
champion wrestler.
Alphonse Berge, with a few yards of
material, makes elaborate and artistic
confections on living models with a
speed that would bring him into con-
flict with the union if he used his skill in
the outside world.
Warren, Latona and Sparkes, three
tumbling virtuosi, as dexterous as they
are speedy, help to make “Top of the
World” one of the best bills Melbourne
Tiv. has had for a long time.
The best of the show are the two
Australians Clem Dawe and Eric Edgley.
They provide comedy which might be
described in somewhat cant terms as
“nice, clean fun,” and their sketch in a
photographer’s studio would make even
that hardened habitue the Tivoli cat
laugh.
Isaac Stern continued his masterly
fiddling at the Melbourne Town Hall last
week, at one concert being assisted by a
string chamber ensemble which opened
up a wealth of concerted numbers. His
violin led rather than went with them into
the vast realms of Bach’s concertos in A
Minor and E Major. Stern makes vir-
tuosity look easy. His fellow-Russian,
Alexander Zakin, is one of the most co-
operative accompanists Melbourne has
seen for a long time.


+ ST. ETIENNE
French xJVLousquetoon
highly ornamented example of
llth Century Craftsmanship
No. 2 of a Senes
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED.
However, the modern sporting gun designs
emphasize performance rather than ornate
beauty, and to the experienced sportsman of
today 1.C.1. sporting ammunition is as familiar
as the weapon he uses.
Delicately inlaid with precious metals, mother-
of-pearl and ivory, this highly ornamented
double wheel-lock Mousquetoon typifies the
peak of artistry reached by 17th Century
Parisian gunmakers.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
Tattersall’s Club meetings are not exactly
famous as punters’ El Dorados, but, display-
ing what Dr. Johnson termed “a triumph of
hone over experience,” 44,000 attended at Rand-
Son Saturday to put £167,000 through the
tote, both figures a considerable increase on
those for the corresponding day last year. The
books’ pay-out clerks might as well have been
away fishing. ....
Usually regarded as a fair Epsom pointer,
the seven-furlongs Tramway Handicap might be
best ignored this year. Clipper (50 to 1) won
it from Earl Pentheus (20 to 1), Tahmoor (20
to 1) and, fourth, Oriental (50 to 1). Old
Puffham ran his usual honest race to finish
next-best, while W. Cook, on the favorite, War-
snite found himself in the straight locked m
on all sides; repeated attempts to break
through of no avail. Prince Consort, one ,of
the finest-looking and fastest gallopers here-
abouts, dropped dead opposite the Leger. First
and second were ridden by the Podmore
brothers, with Arthur on the winner.
Clipper had finished stone-last in a poorer-
class field at his previous start. So also had
Huamight (25 to 1), who scored in the 10-
furlongs Spring Handicap; this time it was
George Podmore’s turn. The favorite, Sweet
Chime, although momentarily blocked in her
run had the race won practically everywhere
but on the post. After tailing the field most
of the way Huamight finished with great dash
wide out to win by a half-length from Loyal
March, just shading Sweet Chime. With 8.7
to carry, Sweet Chime is going to take some
beating in the Metrop. Stewards opened and
adjourned a retrospective inquiry into Hua-
might’s previous run.
One favorite did win, Proctor (W. Briscoe)
taking the W.F.A. Chelmsford Stakes, but it
would be a poor bookmaker who lost on the
race with five of the six runners quoted be-
tween threes and 5 to 1. Though having his
first run since finishing second in the A.J.C.
Plate in April, Proctor won with consummate
ease,"and his connections would be justified in
entertaining rosy visions of the near future.
Good Idea finished on well to be second ahead
of Two Grand, who collected second money
last year.
The Chelmsford seemed to put an effective
damper on any hopes of Temeraire proving
a stayer. After setting the pace till they had
turned for home the Felcrag colt, when tackled
by others, hung on moderately but showed no
inclination to fight on. One might remain faith-
ful -to him by recalling that Magnificent was
beaten comfortably in nine-furlong events prior
to winning each of his Derbys, but then Mag-
nificent was never the phenomenally brilliant
type of galloper Temeraire is. Karachi, too,
was somewhat disappointing in the Chelmsford,
carrying 71b. less than Temeraire and finishing
only just on terms with him.
The length of time since he had had a run
probably led punters to ignore the fact that
Double Mint (A. Ward) was, on form and in
the handicapper’s opinion, the best horse in the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap. Starting
at 25 to 1, the weedy little Double Birthday
gelding finished stoutly to down Havoc and
Marine Victory. Havoc continues to impress
as a vastly improved galloper, but Marine Vic-
tory blotted his book as a Derby hope.'
Double Mint ran the mile in 1.38. In down-
ing Titanic and New Cashmere in the Welter,
Tamasha clocked similar time and was likewise
a 25-to-l shot.
The Golden Sovereign gelding Montrose, after
a couple of years’ endeavor, opened his account
by downing Namesake and Darius in the second
Novice of seven furlongs. Montrose started
at 16 to 1 and his win recalled when, as an
early two-year-old, he started hot favorite for a
race at Rosehill only to be defeated by a
stablemate having his first run and at very long
odds. Showing rather queer logic, connections
retained Montrose and sold the offending
stablemate. Young Veilmond, who proceeded
to develop into a first-class galloper while
Montrose has just now lost his Maiden certifi-
cate. Still, if it’s any consolation to connec-
tions of Montrose, the now very good Proctor
was last year’s winner of the second Novice.
In the first Novice, Merry John, at 15 to 1,
stylishly accounted for Royal Reward and et
Purpose, who must have more minor placing.
his credit than any Maiden three-year-old
racing.
* * * *
Supporters of Dream Rocks, who fought out
a stirring finish with the favorite, Royal Gua ,
in the 13-furlongs Hampton Handicap at Men-
tone on Saturday, were rather cruelly deceive
when a dead-heat was signalled in the judge
box semaphore after the judge had called o
the camera, available to him for the first ti
at that course. At other points in the grouna
Royal Guard was signalled as the winner,
which he was, by a nose. The error, soon cor-
rected, may have been due to force of ha Pit.
On top of that the Dream Rocks people
had to chew their fingernails for a space while
a protest on their behalf was considered ana
dismissed —altogether a long-drawn way ot
doing one’s cash. Formerly raced in Sydney,
Royal Guard is <a five-year-old chestnut horse
by Mr. Standfast from Spear Queen.
Eclipse Stakes winner Propontis was well han-
dicapped in the 10-furlongs Mentone Cup with
Bst., but his extensive record of expensive failures
deterred punters and his starting price of 8 to 1
represented bookmakers’ caution rather than
punters’ optimism. Running along quietly well
up with the leaders, the favorite, Stormy Sea,
“An eagle at this'll make me twenty-four under par!”
looked the winner nearly all the way. Then Pro-
pontis (G. Bougoure), consenting to do his best,
put in some extra long ’uns and ran on to win
by four lengths from Stormy Sea and Approve.
Propontis is a six-year-old son of the Pharos
stallion Hellespont, who raced successfully m
France. .
There were some very close finishes at Men-
tone, but none more thrilling than that of the
mile Yarraman Handicap for three-year-old
colts and geldings, with Chartist, Birmingham
and Saxonian racing head-and-head for the
post. They finished in that order, separated
by margins of a half-head. Chartist was pre-
pared by trainer F. W. Hoysted and ridden
by the stable apprentice D. Barclay. The
same combination was successful when the
Portofino filly Voucher downed Broadcast and
Filgaro in a similar race for fillies. A nice
stable double, with their prices eights and fives.
A good distance horse is frequently worthy
of respect when started first up after a spell
in a sprint event. Having these qualifications
the Tudor King five-year-old Fine Fettle (A.
Breasley) pleased his Caulfield Cup admirers by
coming with a strong finish to down the per-
sistent Sea Monarch and Busybody in the
Leslie Stuart Stakes of six furlongs.
Run in two divisions over seven furlongs, the
Dandenong Welter saw Prince Nigri (S. Martin)
lump 9.2 successfully to defeat Flashed and
Lunar Lynx, while El Banco (K. Smith), even
further up the scale with 9.8, accounted for
Locrian and Carngham. The Mentone Cup
Steeplechase went to the favorite, War Loan
(B. R. Smith).
# * * ***
In England the St. Leger was won by Saya-
jirao, ridden by Edgar Britt, having a great
spin over there. The paying of exceptionally
high prices for untried yearlings is more often
than not a losing gamble, but the Gaekwar of
Baroda is getting his money’s worth with Saya-
iirao a full brother to Derby-wmner Dante and
bought as a yearling for 28,000 guineas. Saya-
jirao beat a French colt, Arbar, by a head,
while Pearl Diver, who had beaten the Gaek-
war’s colt in the Derby, was unplaced. Good
to see the homebreds getting some of their own
back on the French invaders who had been
sweeping the English turf.
* * * *
For the few privileged to see it there was a
tiptop little race meeting at Randwick last week
when some of the new two-year-olds competed,
with the colors up, in barrier trials over tour
furlongs. The best winner, and looking the
type to win the Gimcrack Stakes, was the_ Le
Grand Duc-Vocal filly So Sweet, a half-sister
to Modulation. So Sweet won her heat by only
half a length, but was hard held and clocked
the best time of the morning, 49| sec. Maurice
McCarten seems to have a good bunch in hand;
including So Sweet, he supplied three winners,
two seconds and a third in the nine heats run.
About a dozen started in each.
» * * *
A pleasing feature of the Randwick two-year-
old trials was the good names chosen for the
youngsters. About the best was one of Mc-
Carten’s winners, Phalanx, a fine strong-
sounding name and apt, since he’s by Dhoti
from Battle Royal. One of the smartest
namings was Revenir for a MacArthur filly.
“Revenir” is the French verb “to return ’ or
“to come back,” recalling General MacArthur s
prophetic words when he was driven out of the
Philippines. The verb revenir is also used
figuratively “to retrieve one’s losses.” Also
good Journalist for Columnist’s brother by
Genetout from Pen Name, but Grand Romance
(Le Grand Due-Virgin Wing), while apt, sounds
more suitable for a filly than for a colt.
« * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances);
Mixed Stakes (7f.): Urdu, 1; Belle Fille, 2;
Slander, 3. Mixed Stakes (lOf.): Cetewayo, 1;
Menelik, 2; Chessman, 3. Rosehill Handicap :
Open Air, 1; Cape Neddick, 2; Silver Link 3.
Theo Marks Quality Handicap: Flying Duke,
1; Deep Sea, 2; Hiraji, 3. Hill Stakes:
Shannon, 1; Columnist, 2; Good Idea, 3.
Rosehill Guineas; The Groom, 1; Valiant
Crown, 2; Karachi, 3. Welter Handicap:
Tilston, 1; Titanic, 2; Oriental, 3.
*** ' *
In a tough game on hard ground
Eastern Suburbs won the Rugby Union
final 13-9; a disputed decision. Tate,
East’s five-eighth, kicked a field goal after
the final bell, when the scores were 9-all.
Tate played a polished game, standing
deep, taking the ball at his top, and
handling nicely. Hooker Alby Stone did
all that was required of him and Perce
Newton, a veteran of forwards, was un-
tiring. Taylor, Dennett and Naughton
were outstanding for the Highlanders,
who, piped on to the field, played a
grand game against a strong, well-
balanced side. Indeed, they would have
won if ‘ Paterson had lived up to his
reputation as a goal-kicker. He is very
good on his day, but Saturday wasn’t one
of his days.
The Wallabies beat Devon-Cornwall
17-7, in their first match in England. On
a dry ground, and with practically the
best team fielded, the margin should have
been greater. Winger Charlie Bastes im-
pressed the English critics.
* * * *
The 75,500 who jammed M.C.G. for
the Essendon-Carlton semi-final saw a
stirring game. Carlton won 14.15-11.17
after being behind until well into the last
quarter. Essendon bounded away to a
3.8-0.1 lead. At half-time the Dons were
a point in front, at threequarter-time nine
points in front; half-way through the last
quarter the lead veered from one to the
other as play travelled from end to end
and goal topped goal. Then stamina
told, and the Carlton men, with the Essen-
don rucks worn to a frazzle and their
backs out on their feet, slapped on a
couple of goals in the last 10 minutes.
It’s Essendon and Fitzroy next Saturday,
the winner to play Carlton for the
premiership.
* * * *
Bromwich and Nancye Bolton lasted
longest of the Australian contingent in
the U.S.A. national tennis champion-
ships, both being defeated in semi-finals.
F. Parker beat Bromwich in a lengthy
five-set match ; Parker must have sud-
denly struck exceptional form, as he ex-
tended Kramer to five sets in the final.
Miss L. Brough downed Mrs. Bolton
4-6, 6-4, 7-5, and went on to win the title.
* * * *
Board of Control siftings:
Australian players will receive “allowance”
of £5O per match, plus £lO for “incidentals,’
free hotel and travel exes. Umpires’ fees, £25
per match, plus travel and hotel exes, when out
of their State. Scorers, £2 per match Indian
tour opens v. Westralia Oct. 17 (four days,
similar to other States). Tests: Brisbane, Nov.
28-Dec. 4; Sydney, Dec. 12-18; Melbourne,
Jan. 1-7; Adelaide, Jan. 23-29; Melbourne,
Feb. 6 (played to finish if necessary) Test
selectors same as last year—Bradman, Dwyer,
Ryder Umpire panel (from which choice will
be made); Scott and Cooper (S.A.), Berwick
and Elphinstone (N.S.W.), Barlow and Wright
(Vic.), Weitemeyer (Q.). Captains giving a
“reasonable and tangible reason for objection
may veto any umpire on the list.... The 20th
Australian team to England (1948) will play 30
matches; Tests are at Nottingham (June 10),
Lord’s (June 24), Manchester (July 8), Leeds
(July 22), The Oval (Aug. 14). Team will com-
prise 17—one more than previous “bests ’ in
1926, ’34 and ’3B Westralia’s initial bids in
Sheffield Shield will be against S.A. and Vic. at
Perth, N.S.W. at Sydney, and Q. at Brisbane.
....Rules amended: A new ball may be de-
manded by the fielding side after 40 overs
(eight-ball) or 200 runs. At request of either
captain the final over of day’s play may be
completed, even though a wicket falls alter
“Time” has been reached. Once appeal has
been made against the light all decisions shall
be with the umpires without further appeal.
* * * *
Having their fifth fight at Leichhardt
Jackie Wilson (9.4*) v. Ray Coleman
(9.0) was Wilson all the way. Noted for
his toughness, Coleman was booed by
the customers when what they judged a
not-so-he'avy right floored him for “eight”
in the 10th round. In the next Coleman
looked a cot-case, unable to defend him-
self or fight back, and ref. Mawson
crowned Wilson, t.k.o,
* * * ♦
The dollar shortage may lead to
local lads getting more preference over
imported pugs and maulers; bills of two
main fights between locals are to be tried.
In one at Melbourne Sands —George of
that ilk—tipping the beam at 10.41,
stopped Bill Burns (10.41) in the ninth
round, and Leo Berry (9.91) beat Jimmy
McDonald (9.10) on points.
* * * *
Australian middleweight and light-
heavy champ. Dave Sands (11.6) out-
pointed cullud import George Henry
(11.01) at Sydney Stadium. There was
little in it, but those who questioned ref.
Wallis’s decision would probably be
happy to get a shade of odds about
Sands for the pair’s next engagement.


A dependent may no longer
be cut off with
the “proverbial shilling”
Sometimes a win disposes of
property in such a way as to de-
prive a wife, children, or even a
husband, of adequate provision.
Such persons have the right to
apply to the Court, which may alter
some of the terms of the Will to
grant benefits to them.
Many people imagine that the
mere setting aside of a certain frac-
tion of the assets may obviate this,
but that is not so. The Court can
and does alter Wills in cases which
warrant it.
This represents one illustration
of the many pitfalls for the inexperi-
enced who make their own Wills.
A man’s wisest course is to consult
his Solicitor and be guided by him in
the framing of his Will. Endless
trouble and expense can thus be
avoided later on.
The making of a Will involves the
choice of an Executor upon
whose trustworthiness, experience
and ability the beneficiaries will be
entirely dependent.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limi-
ted has 60 years’ experience in the
management of Estates of many
different kinds. By appointing Per-
petual Trustee Company Limited as
his Executor and Trustee, a man will
ensure that the terms of his Will
shall be faithfully carried out and he
will also ensure to his dependents a
courteous, helpful service.
Call or write for a copy of the
Company’s helpful and informative
booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee.” It describes the Com-
pany’s service and charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Cempaiay Limited.
DIRECTORS;
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0.; E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R. ;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,667,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING UESS THAN £10,000).
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY'
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Representative: J. E. McElroy, 140 Fords Place, Orange.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia f
JACKSON 4
osuiMVAir
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” WINDOW FACE
ENVELOPES
.“national" BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
“NATIONAL” FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“fROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
“national” WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Truth About the Banking System
There are many people, even those
dealing with banks, who are not rightly
informed on many matters relating to the
Australian banking system and its
history.
One fallacy many possess is that the
trading banks are not competitive. This
is quite wrong. Though called the
“associated banks,” their association is
little more intimate than, say, a retail
traders’ association, and quite frequently
people unable to obtain financial accom-
modation from one bank have been able
to get it from another. And there is al-
ways the Commonwealth Bank as a last
resort.
Indeed, keen rivalry exists between
some of the largest Australian trading
banks, and the Bank of N. S. Wales has
at least on two occasions acted inde-
pendently of the others on a major
matter of banking policy. The first
occasion was when it altered the ex-
change rate on London during the de-
pression. The second was in March,
1936, when (with the Adelaide only) it
raised its fixed-deposit rate by one-half
of one per cent, in the face of the
Commonwealth Bank’s attempt to create
an open Treasury-bill market. Though
the ’Wales’ action certainly created a
controversy in banking circles both times,
that only clinches the argument that it
was thoroughly independent behavior.
Profits made by the trading banks are
another matter on which people some-
times have wrong ideas. Figures com-
piled by the Commonwealth Bank —the
Government bank —itself reveal that the
trading banks during 1945 showed earn-
ings of only 3.8 p.c. on the funds belong-
ing to shareholders, and in 1946, allowing
for a new method of taxing banks
with their headquarters in Britain, the rate
was still only 4 p.c. (Mr. Chifley himself
in 1937 recommended as much as 5 p.c.).
The amount shareholders received in
dividends each year was even less than
this. Considering the large amount of
money invested in banks by shareholders,
and the widespread and varied services
rendered by the trading banks themselves,
profits of the combined enterprises are
small.
The Commonwealth Bank —let us re-
peat again, the Government bank—is
available to all those who dfesire to do
business with a “nationalised” bank. Yet
its ordinary banking business is consider-
ably less than a tenth of that handled by
the trading banks, indicating that most
people prefer to deal with a competitive
banking system. .
As to what banks did during the de-
pression, the following is from paragraph
196 of the Banking Commission’s report
(1937), to which “Our Trusty and Well-
beloved [sic] Joseph Benedict Chifley”
was a party:
This review shows that the depression
first affected the banking system through
the serious loss of London funds in 1929,
which reduced the liquidity of the banks.
They became involved in an effort to re-
store liquidity which lasted until 1931. In
spite of their endeavors the ratios at the
end of 1929 went to a point which they
regarded with apprehension. Aggregate
advances could not be reduced easily, and
indeed increased until the beginning of
1930. In their own interest the banks had
to support their old customers, especially
primary producers, who were most affected
by the fall in export prices. The banks
severely restricted new lending and en-
deavored to reduce advances, but there is
no evidence that during the depression they
forced , repayment of their loans on an
extensive scale. It was not until 1931,
when Treasury-bill finance and Govern-
ment expenditure expanded their deposits
and added to their cash that liquidity to
the trading banks was restored almost as
suddenly as it had gone. In this way the
loss of London funds and gold from the
banking system was offset, and the banks
soon removed their restrictions on new
lending. The improvement in the banking
position came about much earlier than the
general recovery in trade and industry.
From 1932 to 1934 the banks attempted
to expand their advances, but found at
first little response from borrowers despite
the added inducement of lower interest
rates.
Momentary apprehension and hesitancy
—Scullin and Theodore were in power
in 1930, don’t let us forget—may be read
from those comments, but any suggestion
that “the banks created the depression”—
nonsense!
Before the war the trading banks were
free to follow their own banking policy in
almost every respect consistent with the
public good. When war broke out they
fell into line voluntarily with the require-
ments of the Government —at that time
the Menzies Government. When Labor
took office in 1941 it was not long before
National Security Regulations were in-
troduced to align compulsorily the credit
and exchange policy of the trading banks
with that decided upon by the central
bank; they were compelled to deposit
their “surplus investible funds” with the
Commonwealth Bank, and to restrict their
purchase of Government securities. Mr.
Curtin said that this measure did not aim
“to introduce nationalisation of the banks
by a back-door method.”
The war over, legislation was hurried
through by the Chifley Government to
make war-time regulations a permanent
peace-time affair. Furthermore, the Com-
monwealth Bank board ' was abolished,
thus removing the political independence
of the central bank, and a governor, sub-
ject to the whims of the Treasurer, took
the place of the board.
The Commonwealth Bank now has
powers to fix interest rates, control the
general credit policy of the trading banks,
control foreign exchange and the ex-
change rates, prevent the remittance or
taking of money out of the country, to
fix the price of gold and to buy all gold.
It also has the right to demand returns
from the trading banks and to limit their
profits, but it cannot yet select their
customers or interfere with clients’
accounts.
The central bank without any doubt
has more than enough power to check
the trading banks in any policy that
might not be to the general advantage
of the people. But in financial circles it
is commonly considered that dangerous
finance is more often practised by Gov-
ernments, especially Labor Governments,
and that a politically-independent central
bank, plus a co-operating trading-bank
system, is a good check to political ex-
cesses.
The legislation covering banking in
Australia as it stands today opens the
way to political control of the note-issue
and of central banking policy, as well as
of general banking and credit policy
throughout the Commonwealth.
But the proposal now to take over the
trading banks in their entirety means that,
if the measure becomes law, every
employee of a bank will become a civil
servant, that every deposit and loan
account, whether nominally opened with
the Commonwealth Bank or a trading
bank, will be a transaction with the Gov-
ernment, that there will be no voice ex-
cept a Government or trade-union voice
in banking policy as it affects the nation
as a whole or private persons individually.
Changes in the banking system may be
summed up this way. Beforfe the war the
Commonwealth Bank and trading banks
were freely competitive as to credit policy
and the acquisition of new customers.
National Security Regulations and subse-
quent legislation took away the right of
deciding general credit policy from the
trading banks and made the central bank
the supreme judge of what was good or
bad in the way of credit policy, interest
rates, etc.; and the abolition of the
central-bank board placed this power
really in the hands of the Treasurer, a
politician. This arrangement gave the
Government more control over credit than
it should ever need.
Now, if the present proposal to take
over the trading banks becomes effective,
a complete Government banking mono-
poly will prevail (the small State banks
excluded), with the aforementioned
political control vastly extended.
A Government banking monopoly,
while threatening the community with
losses of freedom, discretion, initiative
and economic efficiency, will bring to the
national purse an income (if maintained)
that would hardly cover Government
losses on shipping in any one of the past
three or four years. Total trading-bank
earnings, in spite of the widespread
services rendered, were smaller than
£2,500,000 in their last financial year.
And tlfey were smaller still in the war
years preceding.
The 40-hour Gamble
The 40-hour week, to become effective
under all Federal awards during the first
pay-week in 1948, is one of the great
gambles of Australia’s history. On the
face of it the thing appears to be stupid.
In the majority of industries less work
is being done in an hour than at any pre-
vious time, and ai reduction in the hours
worked each week would seem to promise
nothing more than a decline in total pro-
ductive output, a fall even in present
living standards and a rise in costs of
living and manufacturing. In particular,
the housing problem would seem to be
farther from being solved than ever.
The 40-hour week and other “benefits”
to the wage-earner would normally be
rewards for good behavior on his part.
That is, production by workers needs to
be bountiful and living standards high
in order to justify such an award. In
the present case the granting of a 40-
hour week seems to be offered as an in-
ducement for future good behavior —as
an inducement to the Labor movement to
get working with a will to raise the liv-
ing standards of all the community to
the highest possible level, and thus
putting themselves into a position really
to enjoy their extra leisure.
But, looking round the galaxy of Com-
munist trade-union bosses who figure so
prominently in the A.C.T.U., it is un-
likely that, so far as those unions are
concerned, any full reciprocation can be
expected from wage-earners. Individual
initiative or gratitude is suppressed in
Communist-controlled unions. It appears
to be part of the policy of the Com-
munists in Australia to force upon the
nation a production depression for the
party’s own scheming ends; and, if a
higher hourly output per worker is not
forthcoming under the 40-hour week,
then obviously the present production
depression will be made more acute, the
lives of family-makers and home-makers
further frustrated and the existence of
the people generally will continue to be
subject to the “controls” and inhibitions
imposed by bureaucracy.
Our standard of living depends on our
production and the amount of leisure
we have m which to enjoy that produc-
tion. Time for producing and time for
leisure naturally compete with each other
to a certain extent. But there is not
much doubt that most of the nation’s
" could be done in a 40-hour week
some of the rural industries excepted—
if wage-earners only worked diligently
during the 40 hours. Many of them are
willing to, and some of them do, but
others are intimidated by shop stewards
while still others are prevented from
doing what would like because of
inadequate supplies of raw materials and
fuel from Communist- and “militant”-
controlled key industries.
Thus it has been that, even when 44
hours have been “worked,” the produc-
tion of Australia has been inadequate
for our requirements’, and one result has
been a vicious circle based on lack of
incentive; inadequate production by
wage-earners as a body has meant that
there has not been a big enough volume
or variety of goods, houses, etc., for the
spending or investment of their money,
thus dulling further the incentive to
work. High taxation, too, has been
partly the result of inadequate produc-
tion, though it figures both as a cause
and an effect in the vicious circle.
Without any doubt the factor most
necessary for a revival in our social
and economic health in Australia at the
present time is a great increase, in our
production, particularly as regards food,
manufactured goods and building re-
quirements. With full production of
essentials the need for departmental
“controls” over our lives would disap-
pear, and freedom in home-making, busi-
ness enterprise, finance and travel would
return. The burden of taxation would be
less heavy.
And this brings us to the crux of our
present problem. Are wage-earners
going to be allowed by their trade-union
bosses to bring to this country that
bountiful production necessary both to
the wellbeing of the people and the pro-
gress of the nation as a nation? Or is
the great Communist conspiracy against
democracy again going to triumph, with
the 40-hour week representing but
another achievement by the forces en-
deavoring to replace the rule of law by
the rule of racketeers and alien doc-
trines? The more critical our produc-
tion or fuel position is made by inade-
quate supplies the, greater become the
powers of those evil schemers who have
done so much to dictate our domestic
and foreign policy by calling strikes in
essential industries and services.
Now that a 40-hour week has been
made law throughout the Common-
wealth, even though the Arbitration
Court’s judgment itself is by no means
an inspiring one, it is up to the people
of Australia to try to make a success of
it. If it fails to give us greater produc-
tion and industrial harmony no section
will ’be more pleased than the Com-
munist intriguers plotting the complete
downfall of our democratic society.


—Protect your Property insure with
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000 ,
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
'Phone: BW 8131 (3 Lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
RUM
OVERPROOF
CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848 tmQ
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREE TS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Nationalisation of Banking
Colossal Confidence Trick
HERE ARE THE FACTS:
The Commonwealth Bank is subject to
dictation by the Federal Treasurer of the
day. It has powers that might be abused
for political purposes.
The Commonwealth Bank already controls
the broad lines of the credit policy of the
trading banks, fixes their rates of interest,
determines oversea exchange rates and
holds the surplus funds of the trading banks.
Why then, does Labour want to grab the banks?
One vital reason is that a monopoly of banking
would give the Government power of direction of
the workers through its control of credit to employers.
The establishment of any monopoly of banking
would be dangerous. It would be disastrous in the
hands of the Labour politicians who are already
committed to the setting up of a Supreme Economic
Council that would usurp the powers of Parliament.
REGISTER YOUR PROTEST
write to your Federal Member care of
Parliament House, Canberra.
DEMAND A REFERENDUM
Authorised by the Sound Finance League of Australia, 54a Pitt Street. Sydney.
The Federal Government has arranged
to sell all Australian gold production to
Britain, which presumably will be
allowed exclusive use of the potential
dollars thus created. Removal of the
gold tax (17s. 7d. an ounce in the Com-
monwealth) is also being considered—a
Budget is due for presentation in Can-
berra this month. Thus an attempt is
being made to revive again gold output—
a trend which began after the depression
but which was reversed during the war.
* * * *
Under a Labor Government banking
monopoly it would be possible for the
one bank in existence to encourage,
under trade-union dictation, the expendi-
ture of overdraft finance by a newspaper,
and, when the newspaper proprietary had
become dependent upon overdraft
finance, to hint that the paper had better
turn its policy round to the “Labor”
view. Failing to make the “turn,” the
newspaper might find that, under the
same trade-union dictation, it was being
pressed for repayment of the overdraft;
and there would be no other banks to
turn to in order to escape the pressure.
The present union-dominated “Labor”
Government has already used its war-
time powers to intimidate newspapers,
culminating in the suppression of most
of the metropolitan dailies for 24 hours
on a trumped-up censorship charge in
April, 1944, Of course, not only news-
papers are vulnerable. Big employers
often need bank finance to pay for fac-
tory expansion, and big employers in-
variably have trade-union politics to
fight.
* * * *
L. J. Hooker, Ltd., a Sydney real-
estate concern that has grown consider-
ably during a period of Government
control of property dealings, has become
a public co. (not yet listed on ’Change),
and there have been sales of £1
ords. at 355. each, a new issue hav-
ing recently been put out. Ord. div, in
respect of 1946-47 was 30 p.c., for 1945-
46 15 p.c. and for 1944-45 10 p.c. Prior
to the new issue allotted capital* was
8550 fully-paid £1 8 p.c. cum, prefs.,
11,450 £1 6 p.c. cum. prefs. (issued
January, 1945), 34,578 fully-paid £1
ords., and 23,052 ords. paid to 6d. each.
All shares have equal voting power—one
share, one vote. Directors at July 9,
1947, were L. J. Hooker, D. H. B.
Adams, N. F. Henwood, W. V. Light-
foot, G. S. E. Newell and N. R. Pulver.
* * * *
Australia is a budding market for fine
earthenware, porcelain and crockery
manufactured in Maoriland. Chairman
Tom Clark, of Consolidated Brick and
Pipe Co., a N.Z. concern which has been
launching out in this field, told share-
holders at the annual meeting in Auck-
land that orders booked to the Com-
monwealth were sufficient to keep the
fine-earthenware factory busy for at least
12 months. But Australia will have to be
satisfied with 25 per cent, of the output
for the time being. “Sales on the Aus-
tralian market at remunerative prices are
good evidence of the economic worth of
the industry,” commented Mr. Clark.
Most of the £150,000 of new capital (in
4i p.c. prefs.) the combine is issuing will
be used to expand manufacture of
domestic crockery and general utility
lines. Some plant and machinery is
ordered, and turnover of fine earthen-
ware is already expanding. “N.Z. is
blessed with supplies of raw materials
and fuel,” the co, reports. Its clays have
been proved for all crockery. Decorated-
ware will be the next big development,
and an expert from overseas is organising.
The enterprise, after years of struggle, is
getting a firm foothold.
* * * #
At the Premiers’ conference a loan
“works” programme of £lO7 million,
Commonwealth and States, was approved
for the current year, with £358 million
so earmarked for the next five years.
The five-year programme was prepared
by the Co-ordinator-General of Works
(Mr. Hoy), “and to guard against un-
employment the works will be carried
out on a system of priority.” Spending,
including that of semi-Governmental and
local-Government authorities, is allocated
as follows;
£
Commonwealth .. .. 43,500,000
New South Wales .; .. 98,350,000
Victoria 102,400,000
Queensland 31,113,000
South Australia .. .. 45,600,000
Western Australia .. .. 22,000,000
Tasmania 15,450,000
The total includes something for
rail-gauge standardisation; in fact,
in Victoria more is set aside for
this purpose than for water-conser-
vation. The danger in large public-
works programmes like the one approved
by the Premiers is that they often have
a political basis, and can tie up waste-
fully large quantities of manpower and
materials in times when greater efforts
by private enterprise would benefit the
country more. Water-conservation in any
case is far more important than Eddie
Ward’s standard-gauge plan ; that is defi-
nitely a job to be looked after, if at
all, in times of unemployment. Aus-
tralia’s long-term needs are more water
and more work. Productive work is so
important that it needs to be most care-
fully directed.
* * * •
The N.Z. duty on beer been altered
somewhat, but the retail price is not
affected. Under the new method of cal-
culation, where the specific gravity of the
worts used in making the beer does not
exceed 1036, the duty is 3s. a gallon of
beer; where the sp.g. is over 1036 there
shall be an additional penny duty for
every additional unit of sp.g. Previously
a cut in duty was allowed for beer with a
specific gravity below 1036 down to
1027, but it was found that the allowance
was too.small to benefit the consumer.
* * * *
The United States in June was expect-
ing a decline of about 10 p.c. to 20 p.c.
in output as a whole as a result of con-
sumer-saturation in many lines of com-
modities, including manufactured food-
stuffs, clothing, shoes and liquor. Other
items, including cars and electrical equip-
ment, were still undersupplied. But food
prices remained high. The prospect of
a drop in U.S. exports, which have been
phenomenal, through dollar-saving at
this juncture must be disturbing both
to manufacturers and trade-unionists in
America. Thodgh the “recession” was
previously tipped to be a mild one, the
nipping of the export income will call
for a revision of forecasts. -


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”; The use of purple and
gold to indicate royalty is no accident;
it is merely the adaptation of Nature’s
regal blending in the world of flowers.
Think of violets and primroses, purple
irises and daffodils, crocus and hyacinth
if you would picture floral bounty; and
now, from the coast to the plains, the
same combination adds glory to bush and
bank, sandy slope or rocky outcrop.
Happily both components of the noble
pageant are natives ; hardenbergia—the
false sarsaparilla—and wattles. It matters
little if the wattles are silvers in moist
gullies, or golden on the ranges or the
clumpy bushes of the drier slopes; the
purple creeper will be somewhere handy,
sometimes sprawled over a rock below the
golden shower, at times draping a kindly
covering over fire-blackened scrub, or
again twining through the wattle itself.
And it seems to reach its deepest purple,
its greatest profusion, its richest char-
acter where it clings to rugged ochre-
hued railway cuttings. There, where
germination and sustenance are an end-'
less battle, the hardenbergia brightens
and cheers the barren background
though it’s not amongst plants alone that
hard going develops the finest types.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: By far the
most arrogant and noisy members of the
honeyeater family are wattle birds. These
beautiful white - flecked, dark - greyish
birds don’t seem to be able to feed on
the honeysuckle trees about Victoria’s
shores without intermittently uttering
their guttural call, and fearlessly driving
away all competitors from the part of
the tree on which 'they are feeding. At
times they change their diet. This year
a Diamond Creek resident was losing so
many apricots through these squarkers
that he shot two dozen in a blitz, and
strung them up on boughs as a warning
to other fruit robbers. Hardly had he
finished before the “kee-ark-icks” told him
the next contingent had arrived,
» * * *
“Craiser”; A fight between a wild
horse and a plane doesn’t seem within
the range of possibilities, but it occurred
during the search for the airmen recently
lost in the Victorian Alps on a flight
from Sydney to Geelong. A Geelong flier
was chasing brumbies almost at ground
level over snow country in order to
judge of the depth of the slush by the
splash they made tearing through it, when
an enraged stallion reared itself on its
hind legs and tried to knock the intruder
out with its forefeet. The undaunted
defender of his harem repeated his
attempt every time the plane swooped
over.
* * - * «
“Lord Luvus”: At a farewell dinner
in Melbourne, F. Lewis, retired Chief
Inspector of Fisheries and Game, recom-
mended the importation of pheasants
and partridges as a change from duck and
quail for sportsmen and tourists. I
suggest instead the introduction of
the Bengal tiger or, for preference,
the Balinese tiger, which, though smaller,
is even fiercer. Let loose in the Otway
Ranges and in the more densely-wooded
parts of Gippsland, they would multiply
very quickly and would add an element
of danger to those districts. Tracking
down and blowing to pieces inoffensive
birds which have no chance of escape
except from a poor marksmen, and which
can’t retaliate in any way, has always
struck me as a miserable occupation. At
least the tigers would have a sporting
chance of occasionally mauling one of
their attackers, and the alleged sportsmen
would have the opportunity of becoming
heroes by risking their lives to rid an
area of a man-eater which had been
terrorising the farmers.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: The pushbike, which
“Wippegong” (B. 13/8/’47) finds just
right for the observation of bush birds,
was used by the W.A, goldfields police
for the same purpose, though the birds
they observed were somewhat different.
When Detectives Walsh and Pitman were
shot by a couple of gold thieves just out-
side Boulder some 20 years ago they
both had been riding bikes. For sneak-
ing through the bush in quest of the care-
fully-hidden illicit treatment plant nothing
could excel the pushbike. A horse could
be heard approaching a mile off ; the car
and the motor-bike ruled themselves out.
And the “plant” was too many miles out
to be approachable on foot. But the one
disadvantage about the bike for bush
stalking is the manner in which it can
camouflage itself when left behind for
the last few hundred yards on foot. In
that goldfields case the search for the
murdered men’s bikes went on for &eeks
before they were finally picked out by a
blacktracker, from beside a clump of
ti-tree scrub with which' their skeleton
gridness blended almost perfectly.
* * * *
“E. 2”: There were the remains of an
old tourer in the shed at Murphy’s, and
the 12-volt generator appeared to be in
good order. Robbie, who worked on
“Just as I thought—varicose veins."
the farm, pointed this out to Murphy.
“But what use is it t’ me?” said Murphy.
“I may as well sell it with the other
. junk about the place, when I git an
offer.” “But I could set it up in the
milkin’ shed for you,” Robbie said.
“With the engine goin’ f’r the machines
an’ separator, it’d cost hardly anything
to run a lightin’ plant f’r when we’re late
with the milkin’.” “Well, y’ can try it,”
Murphy said, reflectively. A few weeks
later Dan met Robbie in the township,
“Know anyone who wants a man f’r the
rest o’ the season?” Robbie asked. “I’ve
left Murphy’s.” “But y’ reckoned it was
a good job an’ y’ was satisfied there,”
Dan said. “Yairs, I know,” Robbie
agreed. “But ever since he got ’lectric
light at the cowyard he kept me workin’
half the nights. When he started figgerin’
how handy the lights might be fr gettin’
an extra-early start in the mornin’s I
rolled me blankets an’ done a duck.”
* * * «.
“Mug”: Hearing Bob Andrews was
selling off his rabbit pack, Algy called
round in the hope of picking up a good
hunter. On Bob’s recommendation he
chose a cocker-spaniel of sorts, and it
wasn’t long before he was tramping the
rabbit country giving his new purchase
a try-out. The dog discovered a scent
trail, and, with nose to the ground, was
racing along enthusiastically when sud-
denly there was a yelp; and he turned a
neat somersault and ended with a howl
that frightened all the game within
cooee. Algy stared, then, calling the dog,
began hunting further afield. Presently
the performance was repeated. For
several hours they stuck to the job, but
more than one fresh sceqt was spoilt by
the dog suddenly coming to grief. Next
morning Algy was back at Bob’s, “But,
cripes, that dog’s always been a keen
worker,” Bob protested. “Whassamatter?
Won’t he hunt?” “Yair, it ain’t that,”
Algy pointed out. “If y’ wus after pos-
sums, now, ’e’d be gobd-oh. Ain’t ’is
fault ’e’s built wrong. Look here, c’d y’
swap him for one that don’t keep steppin’
on ’isself? One with little ears, say, that
stick up on top,”
* * * *
Tell “Flathead” (B.
3/9/ ’47) that he can get a good theory
on the origin of the dingo from old Bob
Kaleski’s Australian Biters and Barkers,
wherein Kaleski puts forward the idea
that the warrigal is the original dog from
which all other dogs have descended. In
support, Kaleski quotes paleontologists
and other learned gentlemen and, though
some have scorned his notion. I’ve yet
to discover a really effective proof to the
contrary. Kaleski holds that dingo
fossils have been found in strata in Aus-
tralia over 3,000,000 years old and that,
back in those dim days and probably
before man appeared, the dingoes passed
from Australia to the north over the then
existing - land-bridge, of which only the
East Indian islands remain.
* * * *
“Flip”: Bombina’s “big flood” is well
remembered. When satisfied that all
things porous were soaked, and that
everything not nailed down had been
uprooted, the river receded, and has
been gurgling ever since with remi-
niscent chuckles at its handiwork.
Before it left the town the river
made some show of repentance, leav-
ing many of the stolen articles float-
ing in puddles on the block of land be-
hind the rectory. After the Reverend
Thomas had looked on the damage to
his own home, surveyed the flotsam, and
received some inquiries from his flock
about the most urgently needed of their
missing possessions, he produced his list
of “Articles and Structures Found and
Lost” and pinned it on his door;
Found: One table, chair, kettle, biscuit-
tin, dog-kennel. Also several wooden struc-
tures, in varying colors, mostly with iron
roofs, some with owners* initials carved on
the sides. One with a tin of tobacco (wet)
in a cupboard on the wall.
Lost; A reward is offered for anyone
finding one of the abovementioned struc-
tures painted in the jade-green of the rec-
tory and last seen floating down Bombina-
avenue.
“Wowser Willie”: I liked “Flip’s” yarn
(B. 13/8/’47) about Edgar the sleeper-
cutter and his effort to conceal the hole
in the sleeper. But I must protest against
that part where Edgar “lined up with the
others in the bar to collect his pay,” Is
“P.’s” inspector, his Bombina’s publican
or “P.” himself not aware that it is a
rather serious offence under the long-
established Truck Act to line any men
up anywhere around a hotel for the pur-
pose of paying them wages? And to
pass them their pay in sight of the foam-
ing schooner is only to make the offence
doubly offensive.
♦ * % *
“G’roper”: Talking about picturesque
names of pubs, there was never a better
one than that which used to grace a
tavern within a few yards of the Fre-
mantle wharf: His Lordship’s Larder.
The suggestion of rich drinks and appe-
tising foods was irresistible.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Was staying in the city
when a proposed fishing trip called for
a tin of bait, so, locating a garden fork,
I started out after earthworms. Soon dis-
covered, however, that every square foot
of that 60 feet by 130 feet suburban
allotment that wasn’t smoothly clipped
lawn was planted thickly with seedlings.
Disgustedly I was turning away when
Scottie arrived. He took hold of the
fork. “Worms,” he grinned. “Here, I’ll
get y’ some. You collect ’em.” He drove
the prongs full depth into a choice strip
of lawn, then, resting a fist on the handle
pressed it lightly backward and forward’
creating a slight movement in the soil
beneath. After a minute or two up came
the end of a worm, waving inquiringly in
the air. Presently, from close by, cume
another one, then another, while, pop-
eyed at each fresh appearance, I dropped
the arrivals into the tin. When Scottie
had exhausted the spot he withdrew the
fork and, moving it forward about ten
inches, began again. Up shot another
three inches of worm. It screwed round
inquisitively, then drew back into the
soil. “That’s one y’ probably won’t
get,” informed Scottie. “Not often they
come up the second time.” Why?
*** * ’
No. 1 Bench”: I think I can beat that
horseshoe found by the saws in a War-
burton mill (B. 20/8/’47). Tearing
through a big jarrah log at a Dandalup
(W.A.) mill the twin saws suddenly
sprayed sparks. Investigation by means
of a crosscut saw and wedges revealed
the obstacle —a set of leg-irons. Relics
of the convict days of the middle of last
century, these had probably been part
of the equipment of some road or bush
gang, a set' or two being usually carried,
just in case. Possibly tired of being bur-
dened with the weight, a warder had
tossed them for the time on to a sapling,
and later had been unable to find the
tree, a not uncommon happening even
with good bushmen. Then with the
effluxion of time, coupled with continu-
ous growth, the irons had sunk into the
wood. Nor were they much corroded,
the living wood seemingly having had but
little solvency for such a body of metal.
•* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: On my way to town I
often gave the bare-footed boy a lift
as far as the dairy gates. He always had
a big billy in one hand and carried a
rough-haired mong under the other arm.
One day I asked: “Why carry him —is
he crippled or something?” Grinning
self-consciously the kid explained: “No,
he’s not crippled nor nuthin’, but he
thinks he’s a real big dorg, an’ if I don’t
carry him he’ll dash ahead an’ get him-
self ’arf murdered by Austin’s cattle
dorg or Dummet’s Alsatian.” After
Christmas (Santy evidently having done
the right thing) the boy passed me riding
a brand-new bike, his bare feet driving
down on the sharp-edged pedals with no
apparent discomfort. For a week only he
rode solo—perhaps it took that length of
time to the dog to squat on the
main bar with front.legs on the handle
bars —but after that the dog was always
a passenger. It seemed to me the summit
of trick cycling—off the stage —until one
wet morning the pony shied as we
rounded the bend. With the inevitable
billy in one hand, and the dog balanced
on the bar, the boy was stamping down
on the serrated-edged pedals while steer-
ing the skidding cycle through treacher-
ous mud and around deep, water-filled
ruts. And as protection from the driving
rain he somehow contrived to hold a large
umbrella overhead. But I still can’t worry
out how he managed to give me a fan-
fare on the bell in passing.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: I dispute “Steve’s” claim
(B. 20/8/’47) regarding the Todd River.
Quite a few Westralian rivers in the north-
wards section of that State play the same
antics as he credits to the Todd. And
there is the Gascoyne, which opens —I
won’t say flows —into the Indian Ocean
at Carnarvon, on about the same latitude
to the west as Bundaberg is to the east.
With vehicles most part of the year rais-
ing dust as they traverse its bed, it never-
theless flows on underground. Pump
spears driven deep into its sandy bed
yield a flow of millions of gallons, water
that nowadays supports banana and
tomato plantations and orchards yielding
tens of thousands of cases of succulent
fruits —all from what is a man-made
oasis in the desert.
* * * *
“Notaden”: A mystery which has
puzzled drovers and defeated the State
Agricultural Department for more than
20 years is the “black five miles” on
Queensland’s western stock route between
St. George and Boombah. At least 5000
cattle and 10,000 sheep have been re-
ported during that period as having died
from some unidentified poisonous agent
which apparently occurs intermittently
in the local vegetation. Numerous in-
stances of cattle staggering and falling
after feeding, but recovering later, have
also been described by drovers. In
December, 300 sheep died 10 minutes after
feeding on the grass at Boombah. The
latest of these mysterious happenings was
the death of 11 and the serious illness of
more than 90 cattle from a herd of 1000
Shorthorns which passed over the track
on August 27. Tom Pugsley, the veteran
drover in charge, had been using it for
25 years without losing a beast and had
previously regarded the story as a myth.
NORFOLK ISLAND.
You drowse beneath your pleasant sun
Wrapped in your cloak of green,
Or, calm in coverlets of clouds,
Sleep in the moonlight sheen.
While each white, wheeling seabird seems
A thought that flits across your dreams.
Yet in the night you sometimes stir
Beneath your soft, warm turf,
For, deep behind your sighs of wind
And in your restless surf,
Such bitter memories rise and creep
That rock itself would groan in sleep.
Phantoms or dreams, they pass again
In moonlight soft and sweet,
Dim ranks of desperate, haggard men
With chains upon their feet;
A curse upon each labored breath
And in their eyes a lust for death.
You muse aghast among your pines,
Your brows with clouds encurled;
Your feet are planted in the depths
Among a ghastly world;
And all your rugged, rock-bound earth
Bespeaks your distant violent birth.
Sleep on, you drowsy little isle
For while each drowsy day
The soft wind soothes your sleeping brow
And spins the misty spray
Even those phantoms of the past
Must find forgetfulness at last.
QUEENSLAND.
M. J. M.


“Old-timer”: Little Curl, coming to
the hut from the stables with, an empty
chalf-bag one moonlit night, sighted a
group Of young heifers and several of
the station hacks nibbling at the pepper-
inas in front of the hut. Little Curl,
seeking a diversion, rushed at the animals,
flapping the bag and squealing. Horses
and heifers broke for the horizon and
then circled back, snorting and prancing
with curiosity. Curl got into the bag and
went hopping about like a giant frog,
croaking and gurgling. There was a mad
rush of hooves and Little Curl, vastly
amused, lay and watched them go. The
boss, alarmed by the wild rush past the
homestead, grabbed his d.-b. gun, rushed
forth, saw something squirming in the
moonlight and opened fire. Smoke and
flame temporarily blinded him. When
the hands gathered they found the boss
standing ruefully holding an empty chaff-
bag. “Blasted cattle scared of nothin’,”
he snorted. “Even tricked me! Shows
what the wind’ll do, and the moonlight.
Might ha’ shot somebody. Blasted
cattle.” Little Curl slunk thoughtfully
to bunk, listening to the speculations of
his mates.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: If “Salmon Gums”
wants to use the modern method of
eradicating white ants (B. 13 /8 / ’47) tell
him to forget poisons or fumigants.
Simply follow their built-over gallery
from the timber they’re in to the ground ;
the nest is usually under the floor. Start
digging it up carefully until you come to
a gallery bigger than the rest, in which
the queen lives. If the nest is a new one
she may be not more than an inch long,
but if it’s an old one she may resemble
a large white grub with a tiny head and
thorax at one end. With the queen
killed or removed all activity in the nest
will cease at once and the white ants die
slowly, wherever they happen to be. It
is an extraordinary business to watch.
I’ve dug out the queen in a nest in a pad-
dock ; when she had been taken a few
feet away the termites continued to work
in a half-hearted way; separated some
50 feet or so they stopped completely.
When she was put back the work started
again. They’ll toil even when the
queen has; been sealed in a glass bottle,
as long as she is still there. But move
the bottle away and the same thing hap-
pens. As far as I know scientists haven’t
hit upon an explanation.
“Abi Tonus”: Walking under our
Papuan house the other day to see if
the white ants had eaten the piles away
“This is NOTHING —you should have seen what we did at El Alamein."
during the night, I noticed new tenants
in one of them ; an appendage like a
wind sock hung from a crack in the
timber and myriads of small bush bees
were using it as a landing strip for their
hive inside the pile. Traffic was strictly
regulated; incomers landed, waited a
couple of seconds and then were appa-
rently directed to different compartments
in the “sock,” whilst outgoing bees also
waited on the platform after emerging.
Various typesi of ants were about, but,
although going close to the landing strip,
would immediately retreat after getting
within about lin. of it. The perfect ant
repellant?
* * * *
“Old Camp”; Reading of a Yank
who, while on service in northern W.A.,
thought he had discovered another Cool-
gardie, only to find, on assay, that his
brilliant metal was merely sulphide
of iron—“newchum gold”—I recalled
a legend of early Coolgardie. Out
prospecting towards Broad Arrow, a
couple of old-timers camped the
night alongside a nicely-made fire-
place, obviously built and used by an
earlier party that seemingly had dwelt
quite a few days around the spot. The
hobs and back were of big lumps of
quartz. Boiling the billy next morning,
one of the old-timers noticed streaks of
metallic yellow through the smoke grime.
It didn’t need much of his prospector’s
lore to realise that here was gold, since
had it been mundic (sulphide of iron) it
would not have withstood the fire. Near
by was the reef from which the quartz
lumps had been gathered. It was streaked
in the same way. The first discoverers
couldn’t have missed seeing it, but appar-
ently they were newchums determined
not to be “had” by the sulphide of iron
they had been warned about. The o.ts.
named it “The Great Oversight.” It
made them both “Coolgardie million-
aires.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A bat doesn’t re-
quire eyesight to distinguish between
night and day (B. 27/8/’47). Does “Old
Camp” consider that if he were blinded
he wouldn’t know when to pull up the
blankets? As for the thing possessing
eyes, those slits may be relics of a pre-
historic era when bats used organs which
have been superseded by a more scientific
method of conveying information to the
nerve centre. “0.C.” suggests that “to a
bat there’s no such thing as a dark room.”
Possibly. In fact, it’s quite probable
that it has no knowledge of an element,
light, of which it has no need. Man is
apt to confine all creation within the
limits of his own necessities ; yet there
must be a large proportion of living
creatures to which light is unknown. The
lower ocean depths are swarming with
marine life, yet light cannot penetrate
below a few fathoms. Beebe, who pene-
trated to a depth of half a mile in his
bathysphere, found ample life right to
the end of a descent in which the mean-
ing of the term “black” was reduced
to an absurdity.
* * * *
“Zake”; A flat sandstone rock I came
across on the banks of the upper
Hawkesbury north of Sydney had been
carved out in squares like a chessboard,
though the weathering of centuries has
rendered them just barely distinguish-
able. Probably black brother whiled
away the time in the long ago with a
game similar to our draughts. In the cave
alongside it were black handprints, from
a full-grown man’s down to an infant’s.
I’ll leave it to someone else to explain
how they were done.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d spent our last
thousand quid and hit Narromine with
a lot of hope and our swags. There
was a clearing job going, we quoted for
it and landed the bacon. The store-
keeper wanted more than our word. “You
get Mister Woolanweet t’ guarantee y’
an’ y’ can have tucker an’ gear,” he said.
“What,” said Mister Woolanweet; “let y’
strap up a tenner’s worth o’ stuff in my
name an’ then clear out? No ; I’ve lost
things like that before.” “Howinell,”
asked Mat, “can we do y’r job without
tnnlq an > tucker?” Woolanweet sug-
nested that that was our problem. We
t into conference. Next
"ii Woolanweet sighted us on the
° uo Mat was busily
la £ d and Leof a 2ft. thick box-
his poc ket-knife, while I had
tl CC Willi lr
“Shut the door. Mavis, in case she backfires!”
a fire going and was boiling gum-leaves
over it. Woolanweet was mystified.
“Well,” Mat growled, “we got t’ start
somehow. We’ve lived on gum-leaf stoo
before, with a bit o’ fried jewy now an’
then, an’ what timber we can’t pull down
with our hands I’ll drop with me ruddy
knife, see?” Two hours later we left
the store with axes, bars, mattock, tent
and a week’s tucker and tobacco. Wool-
anweet said he’d seldom seen two more
willing workers and our type was an
asset to the district.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Despite his fearsome
list of professor-killing fish “Sou’-west”
(B. 27/8/’47) has overlooked quite a few
other really venomous ones, complete
with poison-glands and effective hypo-
dermic apparatus for its injection. My
correction of his previous statement that
freshwater catfish are armed in that way
was based on plain anatomical facts. Real
estuarine catfish, whether in Groperland
or elsewhere, have solid fin-spines and
no poison glands. The only method by
which they can produce any poisonous
effect is by means of the slime and de-
composed animalculae which accumulate
on their spikes and fins and which con-
tain harmful bacteria. If “S.” is really
interested in the actual facts of the matter,
any first-year biological student could
demonstrate them to him in five minutes
with a penknife and a pocket lens.
* * * *
“Craggie Mains”: Come on, all you
bushwhackers who’ve ever stuck a wild
pig and‘lived to skite about it! Mel-
bourne University says the things have
long been suspected of spreading disease
and wants your help in making a sur-
vey” of the wild-pig population. Foot
and mouth disease and swine fever are
mentioned, and various other diseases
are alleged against the defendants. The
’Varsity suggests that our wild pigs are
degenerate domestic pigs, since there is
no evidence of pigs in Australia- before
1800. Anyway, it will be glad to hear
from anyone on the Darling or Mac-
quarie, in the Territory or anywhere else
who can give information on these
matters: location and extent of areas
where pigs are or have been ; whether
the country is swamp, open or dense
forest or mountainous ; when and how
pigs got into it; what they look like,
whether one colony mixes with another or
fights it or declares it “black” ; any con-
tact between wild pigs and domestic ani-
mals ; their usual diet; any references
to written accounts of previous studies
of wild pigs ; any other information, par-
ticularly with regard to their dying off
and whether they’ve started disease epi-
demics in domestic stock. Waitresses m
city restaurants and railway refreshment
rooms are requested to confine their con-
tributions to the habits of four-legged
wild pigs only, and the address is
Veterinary Research Institute, Story-
street, Parkville, N 2, Victoria.
* * * *
“Betcha”: The most common trouble
with bulls is their desire to wander, and
when once the big beasts discover they
can force a passage through a fence they
take some stopping. Some will stick to
their favored spots for getting through,
some become expert in finding the
weakest spans, while the really bad ones
bludgeon through, feet, head and neck
workipg with a superior disregard for
the strongest barb or netting Had one
old Hereford that ignored fences and
tackled only gates. Passing along fences
weak and sagging with age he d come
on the gate and start in, sticking at the
job of destruction till the gate was
smashed dojK». Even iron gates were
bent and catches broken. I tried forked
wood on his neck, side chains, a rail,
hobbles and a heavy drag—no good.
What stopped him eventually was a heavy
iron plate wired to his horns in such a
way that it hung'well over his eyes. All
he could, see was a foot or two of ground
round his forefeet, so that he had no
chance of recognising a gate should he
come on one.
* * * *
“C.E.”: It was Squizzy’s incurable
practice to trace connections, and when
he met Ted Pender he immediately began
shinning the new bloke’s family tree.
“Pender,” he mused. “Used t’ be a Bill
Pender workin’ at the batt’ry over Sel-
dom-Seen way close on fifty years ago.
Musta bin your grandad, eh?” Ted
shook his head, saying “The real
handle’s Pendergast.” “Y* don’ say.”
Worriedly Squizz delved into the years,
and came up grinning. “Gripes, yair, I
’member a bloke Pendergast,” he
crowed. “Used t’ drive a bullock team
down the valley when I was a kid.
Adopted son of old Toby Rogers, he
was, an’ Toby’s a third cousin be
marriage to ol’ Mick Simmons’ sister-in-
law. Know ol’ Mick?” The newcomer
disclaimed any knowledge. “Yair, I was
bettin’ y’d say that,” grinned Squizzy
slily. “The price Mick’s bin chargin’ f’r
chaff lately he’s pretty unpopular round
here. Still, don’ worry, son; I won’t let
on t’ none of ’em that y’re a relayshun of
ol’ Mick’s.”
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Two or three feet of snake,
orange and green and gold, streaked past
me yesterday. The hillside was a mess of
splintered quartzite encumbered with
wind-levelled hill wattles —the “reed-
leafed” acacia—and a bristling mass of
long-spined bindi-eye with its inch-long
red needles. The ophidian took refuge
among the rock and bindi-eye in a par-
ticularly tangled spot. Preliminary clear-
ing operations uncovered a large flat
stone, and, heaving this up, I found be-
neath it an inch or two of brownish tail.
Digging away at the surrounding gibbers
with one eye on the tail tip, I excavated
the area down to bedrock without find-
ing a trace of Joe. At last, dripping
sweat from the rock-heaving and blood
from bindi-eye punctures, in exaspera-
tion I poked my stick into the earth
under the reptilian rudder. The inch or
so of soil heaved and out came the
gleaming bronze head and iridescent
back of a large skink (Hinulia leon-
hardii). Simultaneously, from the bindi-
eye to the right of my excavation, a shin-
ing streak poured itself towards me. The
lizard was looking over his shoulder at
me with that blend of surprise and
hauteur that comes natural to the genus
Hinulia. and the oncoming snake col-
lided squarely with his starboard ribs.
The ten-inch skink, with truly aristo-
cratic restraint, moved aside, stared re-
proachfully at the long body streaming
past and went his dignified way uphill.
It occurred to me to wonder whether
most other animals share Homo sap.s
fear of ophidians. I once shot a tiger
snake under the very paws of a half-
grown kitten which was playing with the
reptile’s tail.
ROAD AWAKENED.
All the dogs in the length of the valley
Pricked their ears at the sound through the
trees *
They howled to each other the warning „
“There’s a man, there’s a horse in the breeze.
The rocks caught the noise of the hoofbeats
And passed it down valley and plain,
Like the sound of a child’s tapping fingers
As he drums on the glass at the rain.
“Tiny ant of a man on your beetle,”
Said Old Road as he stretched on the rise,
“You cannot run faster than I can,
You cannot throw dust in my eyes.
Loose metals I’ve scattered to trip ypu,
I’ve broken the planks on the bridge;
Let men who come breaking my slumber
Beware of the drop from the ridge.”
All the dogs in the length of the valley
Strained their ears for a sound through the
trees
Then they howled to each other in sorrow
“Not a man or a horse in the breeze.”
With his blanket of shimmering moonlight,
Old Road slept again like the dead,
His head pillowed down in the mountains,
His feet near the dry river-bed.
N.S.W.
COLIN MANN.


THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
e
%
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
Uin. Ring Surcingle, best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephone: FA 5013.
THE
TOP
PRICE
warranted for
your wool is assured when you're with A.M.L. & F,
because it leads in its standards of valuing, displaying,
lotting and auctioneering; because it has the confidence
of buyers as well as its clients.
Consign YOUR next clip to
lustrallan. Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
< Inc. in England, 1863}
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henly and Hay.
A 7.22.17
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL and A CERTAIN /./ / ' 'r'ttfMMW
killer '
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
‘ BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE: MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
V-
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Mules Operation.
'DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
CRAZCOS."
“Agric”: The Australian Wool Board
has now officially recognised it, describ-
ing it “as the greatest single develop-
ment in the wool industry during the last
30 years.” Chairman D. T. Boyd states,
however, that the operation should not
be done unless done properly, and quotes
the experience of F. M. Makeig, manager
of Dungalear, Walgett (N.S.W.), where
the operation has been performed with
highly satisfactory results for many
years. Losses have been reduced to a
minimum from blowfly strike ; lambing
percentages are definitely higher ; wool
returns much higher as the cut per head
increased; and cost of fly dressings and
wages costs reduced.
Dungalear brought their station pro-
gramme into line to suit the Mules oper-
ation. Previously they shore in August
and September, and lambing took place
at the end of November and all through
December. Shearing was brought back
to early June and lambing to end of
September and October and a week in
November. This allowed weaners to be
Mulesed a week or so ajter shearing, and
so they missed the pests which, at other
periods, could cause harm to the wound
while healing.
The Wool Board points out that the
ultimate solution of the blowfly prob-
lem is the eradication of the fly, and it
hopes that scientific research, with such
modern discoveries as gammexane; will
be continued.
Pasture Improvement.
“Dub”; In the drier wheat plus lamb
areas Wimmera ryegrass and sub.-clover
is the mixture. Being annuals, both are
able to weather the dry spells in seed
form. Wimmera rye starts its growth in
the autumn, provides moderate feed
through the winter, then shoots away
early in the spring, to reach a peak about
October-November. It seeds before
Christmas and goes into summer dor-
mancy. The sub.-clover provides feed in
the summer and also, owing to the nitro-
gen-fixing properties of the bacteria on
its roots, builds up the fertility of the
soil. Without the sub.-clover the Wim-
mera tends to exhaust soil fertility and
die out.
Most economical method of sowing is
to put them in with the crop (mixed with
the super.) at the rate of two to four
pounds of each to the acre. Sub.-clover
needs super, just as the rye needs the
clover. Both will have set seed by the
time the crop is harvested, and will come
away with the rains in the following
autumn. Subsequent management con-
sists firstly in light cultivation with the
harrows each autumn before the rains,
to provide cover for the Wimmera seed,
and, secondly, controlled grazing to
allow the clover to form a good sward.
Occasional light top-dressing with super,
may be necessary to keep the clover
going.
The resultant pasture is grazed for
four or five years, then broken up and
sown with wheat again, without fallow.
Owing to the increased soil fertility,
greater yields of wheat are obtained.
Fallowing, even though some volunteer
growth may provide a pick at times.
usually means that a lump of land is lost
to grazing for the period. Sowing with
rye and clover does away with the need
for fallow, owing to the rise in soil fer-
tility, while at the same time there is no
loss of grazing. A four- or five-year rota-
tion plan can be adopted. The whole
process leads to higher yields and higher
carrying capacity.
f Silage on the Downs.
“Herbert”; Darling Downs (Q.)
farmers have realised that fodder con-
These yards, for handling sheep or cattle, were designed by A. Hodge, Banool,
Gelantipy (Vic.), and submitted to the Vic. “Journal of Agriculture,” by whose
permission the plan is pictured here. Hodge suggests that, if possible, the yards
be placed so that there would be a sharp fall in the ground from the right-hand
side, when a cutting could be made to allow a truck to back into the crush for
loading stock for transport.
served in silage form is a good and not
over-costly insurance against a hard
winter and spring. On the Downs 20 tons
of green grass will produce more than
four tbns of hay, and it is possible to
get 100 tons of maize or sorghum silage
from a 10- or 12-acre paddock.
Through their Queensland”' Dairymen’s
Organisation branches farmers have been
delving into methods and costs of silage
pitting and will shortly begin a cam-
paign to show that silage will make dairy-
ing more profitable. Large silos are not
favored. A small concrete underground
method of silo construction is recom-
mended—a pit about 12ft. deep, with a
3ft. collar above ground-level and a
diameter of about 12ft. 6in. Silos of these
dimensions are regarded as most suitable
for small farms, since the farmer could
dig them himself and would only require
assistance to set the concrete; also, one
man could open up a silo of this size
and there would be little or no wastage.
Big and expensive machinery pools are
considered unnecessary for fodder con-
servation, and Q.D.O. branches, have
estimates for plant which are well under
£3OOO. It is considered that ample plant
would be a 10 h.p. tractor, a pick-up
baler, an ensilage harvester, a power-
driven mower and a side-delivery rake,
plus a few minor and inexpensive items.
Actual demonstrations by plant of this
kind will be part of the educative cam-
paign.
Lubricating Oils.
“Endeeay”: The science of lubrication
is for the expert, but most users of lubri-
cating oils like to know something of
the subject. Anyone can easily learn
sufficient to appreciate the main prin-
ciples, the first of which is to avoid
friction and consequent wear of moving
parts. Before the advent of mineral
oils, refined from crude petroleum, all
lubrication was done by fatty oils such
as castor oil, neatsfoot oil, tallow, etc.
they lack the stability
of well-refined mineral oils and so
SJ! era u oi i S are used aimost universally •
although for special jobs fatty oils or
mixtures of fatty oils and mineral oils are
Z Tiif Fatty oils come from
animal, fish or vegetable sources, usually
by heating and pressing from the raw
material On the other hand mineral oils
are produced by distilling the crude oil
and refining by chemical means.
As mineral oils form the bulk of the
oils used in agricultural machinery here
are a few definitions worth knowing.
Viscosity: Perhaps the most important
term appfied to oil, it is a measure of
the body of an oil. Thin oils have a
low viscosity, while thick oils, such as
gear oils, have a high viscosity. Tem-
perature affects viscosity and, as an oil
is heated, its viscosity becomes less. Vis-
cosity is calculated by measuring the
rate of flow through a fine tube at a
given temperature and is usually ex-
pressed according to the instrument used.
The two most used viscometers are the
Redwood (British) and the Saybolt
Viscosity index: A term used to denote
the degree to which an oil thins out on
heating; the higher the viscosity index
the less will the oil thin out on heating
01 thicken on cooling. First-grade motor
oils have viscosity indices, as a rule
between 80 and 100; diesel engine oils
are often less, in the vicinity of 50 to
70 ; machinery oils are usually lower still.
Provided all other things are equal, oils
which have the higher viscosity indices
are to be preferred; however, in some
cases, particularly with diesel engines,
it is not so. Too much importance must
not be attached to this one test; it must
be considered in relation to all other
tests of an oil.
S.A.E. numbers: In the past it was
customary to describe an oil as light,
medium, heavy, etc., but as suppliers did
not always call the same oil light or
medium a stricter classification was intro-
duced. Each S.A.E. number, e.g., S.A.E.
20, S.A.E. 30, etc., has strict viscosity
limits so that all oils marketed as S.A.E.
30 have approximately the same viscosity
at the working temperature. S.A.E.
numbers have no quality significance;
they merely indicate viscosity.
Paraffin base: All oils are “hydro-
carbons,” that is, compounds of the
elements carbon and hydrogen. When
, these two join in a certain fashion the
resultant material is called “paraffinic”
or paraffin base. Oils of this type are
usually good motor oils.
Naphthene base: When the carbon
and hydrogen join in a different fashion
(and they can join in many different
ways) we get a material called “naph-
thenic” or naphthene base. These oils
are used largely for diesel engines, as in
this type of engine they often give cleaner
pistons than the paraffinic types. They
can also be used in petrol engines and
mixtures of paraffin and naphthene base
oils often give superior performances.
There are other terms, but these suffice to
give some idea of the meaning of terms
commonly used in discussing oils.
Dealing with Dingoes.
“Lub”: This n.-e. Victorian district
comprises high mountain ranges clothed
in native timbers and scrub ; the fertile
river and creek valleys between are partly
cleared for farming. Essentially a dairy-
ing district, with pig- and cattle-raising
next in importance, the sheep are gener-
ally in small flocks. The bush country,
proportionately much larger than that


For Sale.
CLIMBIMG TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
ted tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
■
a
<dl
fd^
6vjn^3
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
AEQUIKE EMPTYING.
— WARNING!—
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public Is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., I>td., the bona fldes
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee comi
pared with any other guarantee.
the hygeia guarantee includes
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY,, LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St.. Sydney.
Est. 1931.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
' „.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
"61 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7873.
Western Austialia: E. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 411 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: VDm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.. Launces-
ton and Hobart.
g
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con- . —— ;
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO _ Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
and pave fhe way for
a Prosperous Future
Write Now!
EVAN WORDEN
Box 17, P. 0., Chatswood, N.S.W.
For Sale.
British Oak Bulldog Kennels. Bulldog puppies
from 1947 English Imported Champion Blood
Stock. Inquiries invited, principals only.
C. BOOTH, 22 Randwick Street, Randwick,
N.S.W.
m&m
nveers*
a
TRADE MARK
V
* ** ;
-W
m
■-■•■■■■!■: 'i i?v
rs
W v .l
%
Supplies
VETEMUL’
' for
approx.
either
Cfl (mule \
50 fowls.
chicks.
1 light horse.
4 Dios. 1 cow.
5 colves.
8 sheep,
or 15 dogs
TUeh&la* ftiy.JMy, agmgulturauvehriwahy aivisroN
—and what it can do for HORSES
PIGS, CALVES, CATTLE, SHEEP
POULTRY and SHOW STOCK
Adequate amounts of vitommt A and D 3 m
essential to live stock for normal growth, health,
production and reproduction. Vitamin A is norm-
ally supplied by the correct natural feeds, princi-
pally green feeds, and vitamin D 3 by contact with
direct sunlight. Conditions, however, such as
difficulty in obtaining correct feeds, absence of
sun during dull weather, and the need, with modern
commercial production, to keep stock under coyer
for varying periods, frequently result in stock being
deficient in either or both vitamins, A and D 3.
'Vetemul' Green Label, an emulsion containing,
vitamins A and D 3 in highly concentrated form
will ensure that stock receive these vitamins in
adequate amounts. 'Vetemul' mixes easily with
water and ANY TYPE OF FEED. Following is a
summary of the main uses of 'Vetemul.
f or HORSES, when green feed is scarce and when
stabled for long periods.
for SHOWSTOCK, when, through hand feeding the
supply of green feed is reduced and when shedded
for long periods.
x- r calves AND CATTLE, calves fed on skim milk,
“ Sry bin? on dry feed, calves and cattle shedded
or during continued dull weather,
for PIGS, when fed mainly on skim milk or butter milk, 1
or scraps during dull weather when sties permit little
sunlight.
for SHEEP, where treatment Is needed for vitamm A
deficiency diseases. Overseas tests have indicated
the value of vitamin A in coses of urinary calculi,
also for stud or show sheep brought in for hand
feeding.
fnr POULTRY, when green feed is scarce, during con-
— tfnued dull weather, in sheds which permit little sun-
. light or sunlight through glass w n h '^ h f £ es S e os
vitamin value, for breeding hens and for chickens m
battery brooders.
'Vetemul' is an emulsion, therefore does not have unde-
nt,"muscular effects on any animal, or taint or make
oil?The m flesh of bacon pigs. >] than
on oil and can be used with ANY TYPE OP Pttu.
If your local chemist, stock and. station agent. Produce
merchant or storekeeper cannot supply Vetemul write to
NICHOLAS PTY. LTD., nearest'branch.
Farm with
McConoick-Deering
A size and type of tractor for every farm . .
and a complete system of power equip-
ment for every farming need.
Haiti with INTERNATIONALS
WSS&S&
iajfn
m
International Model KB-1 Truk Utility,
10115-cwt. capacity.
Every International is all truck
built. Choose an International
for your next truck investment.
The full range covers all haulage
i requirements— capacities up to
ten tons —including utilities, light,
medium and heavy-duty models.
For full
tractors
r l trucks or McCormick -Deering
information on International trucK
and other farm equipment . . •
... See Your Nearest
INTERNfiTIONIL HRRVESTER DEALER
dƒdg
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY
f-APITAL CITIES. FACTORY:
. LTD., UNO. IN VIC./
GEELONG.
out/ I*4-15
THE
A review <
Company
“ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.
>f Economic, Market and Financial Condmons
Accounts and Mining Activrt.es. Pnce U
under farming, gives thick cover for wild
dogs, which have a fair mixture or
domestic strains ; a good number of those
caught are twice the size of a pure dingo,
Once they take on sheep they don t
readily leave them, working across the
ranges from valley to valley as it suits
them. They kill for the love of it, eat
their fill and, excepting pups and young
dogs, don’t usually return to the carcasses.
In some seasons the dogs kill a fair
number of calves and young cattle from
the mobs grazing on bush leases up to
the summit of Mt. Bogong.
Control of the dogs here is managed
by a realistic shire*council which employs
a dogger and assistant. y The dogger
doesn’t pin his faith to traps, baits or rifle
so much as his intimate knowledge or
dingo lore, and his worth to the district
far exceeds the salary plus bonus or
a skin he receives. All skins handed in at
the shire office are paid for at that rate,
half-price for pups. _ -
The indiscriminate laying, of baits, as
by aeroplane, would probably account
for only a few pups and young dogs here,
and would be regarded a § futile tor old
and cunning killers. Where dingoes
abound the most effective and least ex-
pensive means of control is regular em-
ployment of patrolling doggers.
Stringhalt.
“Jock”: Drs. J. S. Covernton and M.
H. Draper throw some light on string-
halt in their extensive research into
myotonia in the “Medical Journal of
Australia” for August. They define
myotonia as a painless persistent con-
traction of a muscle occurring after
stimulation —the myotonic patient cannot
relax his grip after he has shaken hands.
The condition is very rare. Paramyo-
tonia is applied to mean attacks of tem-
porary stiffness in movements when the
subject is cold, and it is this
that the authors consider comparable to
stringhalt.
The investigation into stringhalt, done
in association with P. Schinkel, lecturer in
Veterinary Surgery at Roseworthy Agri-
cultural College (S.A.), showed that there
is a strong familial tendency in the dis-
ease, that the animal lives its normal
span of years, and that, if the disease is
not severe, the animal’ can work usefully.
If more severely affected, backing and
turning cause trouble, spasms of
muscles being precipitated by these
movements. The hind legs are more
affected and the animal turns about its
hind legs instead of about its fore legs.
The disability seems to improve with
exercise and worsen with cold and fright.
Intravenous injection of syntropan
(Hoffmann-La Roche) caused an improve-
ment, but the, relief faded in an hour.
Other drugs used produced no relief. No
treatment is therefore of any practical
value and the prevention of the disability
becomes more important. Warmer con-
ditions help—l have seen a hack whose
only sign of the condition was a stiff-
ness of a hind leg as he was led from a
stall in the morning, the leg stiffened
behind him and he seemed unable to
move it for a short time. Apart from
this sign, he had no evidence of stringhalt
and could lead winning “section fours”
at country shows. Breeding from such
animals is definitely out, because of the
familial characteristic of the disease.
Hints far the Farm.
“Big Billy”: To ward off hydatids, boil
all offal, especially from sheep, before
it is fed to dogs ; hands after dogs
have been handled; prevent children
from playing on the ground in the vicinity
of dog kennels ; dose dogs regularly With
arecoline to kill tapeworms.
“Wilydah”: Most native timbers, ex-
cept conifers, will respond to pruning,
in particular eucalypts, most of which
are inclined to make height, with a
scarcity of foliage and a bad shape for
really effective shade. In winter and
early spring it will pay to cut these trees
back to the main forks in addition to
cutting out any dead or diseased branches.
If a short length is left on each solid
branch at the main fork a vigorous
growth of suckers is encouraged and an
immensely improved shade tree is the
result. Kurrajongs which have been
lopped for fodder are a perfect example
of what this treatment does.
“Gip”: When unloading full 44gal.
drums, place two solid planks against
the back of the truck for the drum to
roll down. Tie a strong rope to the front
of the truck, run the rope around the
drum, holding the free end in your hand.
The drum can then be easily controlled
by one man and allowed to roll slowly
down the planks to the ground.
“Billjim”: One of the best methods of
disinfecting an incubator is fumigation
with formaldehyde gas generated by
adding formalin to permanganate of
potash crystals, |oz. potash and \oz. of
formalin being required for every 20 cub.
feet of incubator. Potash crystals should
be placed in a wide china or earthenware
vessel to avoid overflowing by effer-
vescence when the formalin is added.
Vessel containing, the crystals is placed
in the incubator, formalin added and the
door of the machine closed quickly, care
being taken not to inhale the fumes.
Ventilators and the machine are left
closed for a few hours.
.“Gip”: If the maize planter breaks
soft seeds such as peanuts, etc., replace
the steel plates with plates made from
threeply. Distance between plants, also
the number of seeds dropped together,
may be corrected by altering the number
and size of the holes in the plate.
“Bill C.”: A handy straining tool for
tightening up slack barb wire is made by
squaring the end off a paling and then
cutting a slit wide by lin. deep into
the end. One man stands inside the
fenced area and, pushing the slit on to
the wire just behind a barb, pushes the
paling against the fence post and holds
the strain while hjs mate drives home
the staple.


** If you ask me, shortages hit hardest
fit the man who wants the best’ 9
p
When you find it Hard to come by some
WHITE HORSE WHISKY, reflect that its
fine-liqueur quality was never finer than now.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
PERTH
xmu
-¥a
:
4s£lras
v ;
0
At Your Service
wherever you are
Wherever the owners of Dodge, De Soto, Chrysler and Plymouth cars
or Dodge and Fargo trucks and Utilities travel, they find friends in
every capital city—the Member Companies of C.D.D.
These Member Companies provide smooth working service facilities
which are maintained for the convenience of owners everywhere and
anywhere in Australia.
The C.D.D. After-Sales Service is built on standards of quality and
workmanship in keeping with all products of the Chrysler, Dodge,
De Soto line.
.V
*iOUTH
■ER
ft oeoe
SOTO
w
a °DCETRUO£>
(a TS Til I ll| PI !•! ID.
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY; Harden and Johnston Limited; York Motors Pty. Ltd.; Buckle Motors (Trading Company) Pty. Limited.
• MELBOURNE: Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.; Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd.; Automobiles Pty. Ltd.
» BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Limited; Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.
* ADELAIDE: Way mouth Motor Company Ltd.; Flinders Motors Limited.
* PERTH: Winterbottom Motor Company Limited; Wentworth Motors Limited.
» hobart: Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.; Co-Operative Motors Limited; H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.
CDIO7
Tony says, “I kill pig.”
Harry says, “I kill pig.”
Little Ben lb Id, a brown bundle in
his ragged uniform, says crouching away,
from Takahashi, fear in his small dark
eyes, and sorrow too, says bravely
enough, “I killa t’pig.”
Takahashi continues to smile. He
shakes his head a little, which might
mean he is believing or disbelieving, but
he looks at George and smiles. He
caresses the pig, wonderingly, on the
smooth flesh.
He chuckles a little, and then hoists
the pig from the bayonet. Still chuck-
ling he sits on the floor, and he pulls
the bayonet from the boss, hacking away
at the pig, gleeful, it might appear, as a
child at some game.
A leg he throws to George, A leg to
Harry. Another to Tony, tossed. A leg
for himself. Some of the small chest for
Ben lb Id. The remainder on Takahashi’s
knees.
“Pig,” chuckles Takahashi. He bids
them eat, for they hold the pieces in
their hands, wondering, not thinking of
eating, not daring, perhaps.
They eat, then. Might as well eat.
George eats although his gorge rises. He
bites savagely at the flesh, hungry as he
is, sick as he is. Tony, watching the
little Nipponese, bites savagely at his.
Ben lb Id rocks a little, and weeps,
almost, because he cannot understand.
George is the only one who thinks a
great deal. About hunger, perhaps, about
food, about what it is, and what food
will do to you, and all the queer happen-
ings of the night, and the unreality. Real
enough, though, you might say, with that
hound eating there. The others think
that it is always like this, always for the
worst. Perhaps. Perhaps.
Takahashi makes the best of a bad
job, cutting it up as though he knows
the English custom of sharing. He wipes
his lips and smacks them, eats and grins,
and looks at George and Harry and
Tony, and even has a strange glance for
the small Javanese. George is sure he will
vomit. The pig is not pork, is not sweet,
is not biting on the palate for all Ben
Hibberd’s curry. It is all as dead as his
dull mind.
nr AKAHASHI seems to have finished,
I except that there is a great licking of
his fingers, a matter of smiling, and then
he stands. He keeps smiling at them, and
saying, they know not why, “Pig, Pig”;
as though they understand but they do
not understand, and are silent, watching
him fix his bayonet, hoist the rifle to his
shoulder, go to the door, turn again,
chuckling, and then disappear.
None stirs. They forget the stew in
the pot, the potatoes and the tapioca and
the bones they might suck. The fire
might die and the stew become cold. The
moon might blaze again, flooding the
floor, and Takahashi go walking up the
catwalk, to the Commandant’s office.
The queer feeling of expectation. The
smile of the smiling Takahashi. The men
silent as they were before they thought
about the pig or killed it. Ben lb Id
rocking himself in fear although a little
time before he had been brave.
No one says he wonders what the
little bee will do, for he thinks he knows,
and none has ever trusted Takahashi,
never will trust him. Small hopeful
thoughts grow, as ever they grow, once
their minds, are freed a little of paralysis.
George’s mind has a terrible anger in
it. He would like to smash the smiling
Takahashi, smash him, yes, ,but he may
not. He will never forgive the grinning
barbarian. He Will never forget his
humiliation, or even the way in which
he stood, himself, killing the pig, and
being afraid for a moment of running,
gesticulating Nips.
They hear Takahashi’s footsteps upon
the hard walk, but not on the way to
the Commandants office. Perhaps, then,
to get the guard and take them, to pro-
cure the guard on duty. Perhaps not,
too. George does not care.
He is exultant, angrily happy. He
might want something to happen, the
way he stands there, as though that
something might whip the sullen deadly
quietness which is his. Well, it'is happen-
ing, it is happening.
Takahashi going along the catwalk, but
not coming back, leaving them with their
thoughts.
to take it down and see if I can’t fix it
up a little better.”
Then he’d proceed to waste the whole
day in an endeavor to rectify that, or
some other fault, probably imaginary.
MR. Giblett is more than ever obsessed
by wireless now,-and, as far as the
ordinary jobs of the farmers are con-
cerned, has become a confirmed pro-
crastinator.
While snails, slugs, caterpillars, cut-
worms, boll-weevils, wilt and root-nibblers
are enjoying themselves immensely in his
vegetable garden, he listens-in to pro-
fessional gardeners telling him how to get
rid of them. While fruit-flies, codlin-
moths, white-ants, borers, aphidse and
other vermicularia incubii ravage the
orchard, he sits, listening with approval,
in that comfortable armchair of his, to
agricultural experts tendering advice upon
how to exact a decimating revenge.
While his hens, his chickens and his
ducks are dying through neglect, he is
paying great attention to some authority
on poultry-farming who is broadcasting
a few hints on how to make it pay. His
bees, while he is listening to helpful talks
by apiarists, are mobilising and buzzing
off to less dilapidated quarters elsewhere.
Mr. Giblett still thinks he is a farmer
at heart and that is why, doubtless, he
absorbs so much theory. It can be
absorbed in comfort, whereas practice is
sometimes fraught with fatigue. Perhaps
that is why, too, Mrs. Giblett nowa-
days “is prepared to accept a limited
number of paying-guests.”


RIGHT FOR THE NIGHT
and Bright in the Morning
Wolfe’s Schnapps with lemon, at bedtime, is
a wonderfully comforting drink. After a
sound night’s sleep, you’ll wake in the morn-
ing feeling fresher and brighter.
Always have a bottle of
Wolfe’s Schnapps in the home
*
and take it regularly
as a night-cap . . .
for “good nights”
and “good mornings.”
WOLFES
AROMATIC
WOLFE’S
dJlrcmabc
SCHNAPPS
Sm
/J
You can tell it’s
A "MAXIMUM" PROPERTY!
• WELL WATERED • BETTER CROPS
• MORE PROFITABLE
Parched land give? poor profits. You can grow splendid crops
and qet good returns for far less effort with Maximum, the
modern spray Irrigation system.
You'll have water where and when you want it!
No other system can be erected and moved
with such ease and speed. "Maximum" has the
famous flexible coupling. You change pipe
positions quickly without stopping pump or #
motor. Gives good coverage and cost per acre is low.
C mith g. Sluvas Pty. Ltd., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
S' 's i ra.
S a cB. riy. ud.. mwj*
Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. MX 4889.
MANUFACTURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY
IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 DIXON STREET. SYDNEY
MA 7858
j Mail this coupon to Maximum Spray
Irrigation Co., or to any of the agents
listed. Learn more about "Maximum"
... how it can help you/
Name
Ad d ress
8.5
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“An*aspirin tablet put in flowers
often revives them.” — “New Idea.
And it’s as) simple as A.P.C.
.j. 4* 'I*
“Golden Age” theme song: “Money
Is the Root of all Upheavals.”
•j» 4* 4* 4*
“A woman’s pulse rate is usually higher than
a man’s.” — “World’s News.”
It’s the one thing he hasn’t the heart
to beat her at.
❖ 4* 4*
“Items continuing to catch ( the eyes are
women’s skirts.” — Sydney “Sun.”
But the longer they get the less catch-
ing they’ll do.
4« 4* 4* 4* „
“Medical bouquet for Sister.” — “Daily Sun.
Embellished with strands of catgut,
What more could a Sister wish
Than an ether-scented gallbafe
In a cute little kidney-dish ?
Eve.
4* 4* _ 4< ,
“Rubber reversible child’s mackintosh, in per-
fect condition.” — Suburban paper.
A bouncing youngster, but with a two-
faced nature.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Boy 14-15 wanted. Must be good at tram
selling.” — Sydney suburban paper.
If he can sell some of Sydney’s trams
he’d be a wizard salesman,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dressing to a plan can be great fun.
— Woman’s paper.
Husbands of designing wives, how-
ever, seldom appreciate the joke.
*r t t’ t
“A woman reveals her character in her cur-
tains.” — Woman’s paper.
Some just let them ,go hang.
“Which came first—the chicken or the egg?
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph:
Many boarders are prepared to swear
they come simultaneously.
4* . 4*. * , „
“Jealousy shooting in suburban shop. .
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.
To avoid a repetition, the shopkeeper
has decided to sell his washing powders
to all and sundry until the supply runs
out.
4. 4* 4* 4*
“Electric clock maker.”
—Positions vacant ad.
Only live wires need apply.
Life Sentence.
“Peonle in the distant future may have the
features*of infants and be able to prolong life,
perhaps indefinitely.” _ AMMt pmfm
If in the twilight of mankind
Some centenarian should find
A sprightly little lass of eighty
Becoming what is known as matey.
And. while she cups her hand to hear,
Quavers endearments in her ear.
In point of looks at least he may be
Right in addressing her as “Baby.”
But when the men of science plan
To thrust on man a longer span
Of suffering some bureaucrat
To limit this and veto that
While regulations breed galore,
Does no one pause to ask “Whaffor ?”
P. M. LUSK.
Entertainment.
“Sydney has entertainment to offer the
visitor, and also a hazard or two.”
—Radio speaker.
Since arriving in the city he had been
royally entertained. He had read a
newspaper (strike news, beach-girl photos,
ragshop advts., comic-strips and all);
had tried to buy a few simple things like
cigarettes and matches; had watched
some council laborers felling a row of
splendid ornamental trees ; had observed
the prices of fruit and vegetables; had
read some “Eat More Fruit” placards ;
had bared his head for a bumped-off
gangster’s two-mile-long funeral cortege
in the mistaken belief that it was in honor
of a distinguished scientist or public
benefactor; had observed the half-past
five bfcer struggle in a city pub and had
watched 170 people trying to get into
an 80-passenger, 50-year-old tram.
As for hazards —well, hadn’t he tried
to “keep to the left,” and then been
menaced by a crowd of 200 when he went
to the assistance of a constable who was
being manhandled by six hoodlums?
CAL.
No Alternative.
“As human bodies grow old, most of them
lose the power to make new pigment, so that
the hairs become colorless.” — Sydney Sun.
When lovely woman reaches forty
And learns too soon that age betrays
What charm can keep her young and
sporty ?
Why, science knows a dozen ways!
For any modern plastic surgeon
Can lift her face when muscles sag.
Thus causing youth anew to burgeon
And Time's relentless feet to Jag.
But once she loses pigmentation
It nought avails to weep and sigh.
And woman finds with consternation
There’s nothing left her but to dye 7
BERT.
Customary.
“There are wives who worry over their hus-
bands’ habits.” — WOman’s paper.
My worst habits —getting my own
breakfast, darning my own socks, wear-
ing shirts with frayed neckbands,
straightening out knitting patterns, hunt-
ing town for cigarettes (/ smoke a pipe),
minding the baby at the entire week-end,
mending the electric-iron cord twice
weekly, listening to topics of which I
was weary five years ago and handing
over my pay-envelope intact on Friday
nights—don’t seem to worry mine a bit!
PERCY.
Passing of a Hero.
It was a great day, or almost a great
day for the Irish or the near-Irish. Their
hero, Micky O’Toole (formerly Guiseppe
Tomaliero), was fighting again!
Micky was a real broth of a bhoy.
You could just picture him, with the wind
blowing through his black oily ringlets,
trotting happily through the bogs of
Brindisi, or cutting peat sods for his ould
mother Bridget Tomaliero, or taking a
swig of olive oil somewhere in the wild
glens of the Abruzzi. Och! To be
swingin’ a shillelagh in Bologna, or playm
a barrel-organ solo in Antrim!
The Italo-Irish fans had packed the
Stadium for Micky’s great fight with
“Dread” Forson. The Kellys and the
Matteottis, the O’Sullivans and the Por-
riottis, the Callaghans and the Tum-
minellos had rushed the ,ringside seats
that were left over after the herd ot
“Labor” politicians had got in on the
nod. Beyont, in a hundred thousand
“The damned thing's stopped—I can't hear it
ticking."
homes, bhoys were crouched by their radio
sets waiting for the announcement of
victory for the invincible combination of
Italian fighting spirit and Hibernian
nomenclature. And that the flapper
press’s god was bound for another victory
could easily be gauged by the jubilant
voice of the announcer.
“In that last round Micky’s Irish blood
was simply boiling. Only the bell, saved
‘Dread’ as he took that lacing in his
corner. He’s a wonder boy, is Micky.
Weaving around, playing a tattoo on, or
almost on, his opponent’s chest. He’s so
far ahead of ‘Dread’ on points now that
the ref.’ll have to get radar to locate
him. , ,
“Well, there’s the bell, and Micky
bounces out of his corner, so chockful
of fight it would make Brian Bom dance
with joy in his crypt if Brian could know
of it. He landed, or almost landed, a
beauty then. It’s all over bar shout-
ing ! Micky cbuld beat this fellow if he
had a crop of carbuncles on his neck and
two broken legs. His opponent just can t
stand up against him. He’s going at the
knees worse than Chif. when one of the
union big-shots starts to put the heat on.
“There’s another near-miss by Micky!
Did you hear that shriek, listeners? No,
it wasn’t from one of the women in the
ringside seats —it was caused by the air
that blow displaced; the draught nearly
knocked me off my seat by the ‘mike’
here.
“Well, that’s another round to Micky.
It’s a shame to take the money. They
should have blindfolded him and pat a
ball and chain on each leg to have given
‘Dread’ a chance. As it is, Person’s just
rn there to make up the number. You can
see the ref.’s just about given up bother-
ing about the points score—the number
Micky’s got chalked up by now would
make a porcupine look as if he was in
the nude.
“Well, here they come again! Micky’s
condition is so good he could knock
over a feed of spaghetti and garlic be-
tween rounds if he wanted
to —in fact, he could have a
three-course meal inside the
ring, and have plenty of
time to knock ‘Dread’
groggy between mouthfuls.
This boy’s absolutely un-
beatable. Oh, that was a
beauty! If ‘Dread’ hadn’t
leaped back in time that
sizzling right would have
had him wondering what
all the birdies were doing
fluttering about him.
“Some of the fans up in
the bleachers are whistling
a medley of ‘Kathleen
Mavourneen’ and ‘Funiculi,
Funicula’ and you can see
it’s inspired Micky. What
a boy he is! There, he’s
just cut loose with a
terrific left that missed
‘Dread’s’ chin by less than
a foot. He’s so fast on his
feet the other fellow’s go-
ing cockeyed trying to
follow his movements.
Yes, he’s got ‘Dread’ §o rattled he nearly
hit the ref. by mistake. Well, there’s the
end of that round, and everyone must
be wondering when the ref.’s going to
crown Micky so as to stop the slaughter.
“There’s the Hope of Hibernia in his
corner, pepping up with a shot of Chianti.
One of his seconds has just burst
into ‘The Shamrock of Tuscany,’ and
some of his supporters in the bleachers
are singing ‘The Mandolin That Once.-
“Well, there’s the bell again and they’re
into it. Micky’s fighting mad now, and it’s
only a question of how much more
‘Dread’ can take before they push the sal-
volatile under his bugle and tell him the
comets’ll stop shooting in a few minutes.
“There goes Micky after him. O’Toole's
never prone to take things easy at this
stage just as he’s looking for his big
chance .. . Whuh! Did I say he wasn’t
prone, listeners? Well, he is. Stretched
flat. Yes, Micky’s out cold. That’s what
comes of leading with his chin, the mug.
He’s been asking for that all night! ”
Bo.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months .. .. £1 i'O
6 „ 12 6
3 „ 10
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —
12 months .. .. 15 0
6 «0
S 4 0
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
All for the Best ?
Everything is wonderful in this best
of all possible worlds—or is it? Lay an
ear to the earth and you may hear
tremors of Homeric laughter at mere man
dabbling with the fission of atoms on the
one hand, tampering with fundamental
principles on the other, and all the while
mouthing noble sentiments anent New
Worlds and Golden Ages.
Well, the Sumerians and early Gyppos
twanged a similar harp four millenniums
before Christ preached a gospel of sim-
plicity and humbleness, and the main and
outstanding feature of it all is that the
Stalins, Trumans, Attlees and Chifleys of
those days are now not even grains of
dust wafted from the pads of passing
camels.
Read any old book of travel and there
are recorded scenes of prolific growths of
trfees, grasses and the fruits of the soil;
of seas teeming with fish and of the air
filled with birds. Today, as the result
of man’s incredible folly down the years,
sources of foodstuffs have degenerated
and millions starve.
Over the years Science has probed
the secrets of Nature that man-
kind might reap the benefit, and over
the years the dimwits of the world have
bartered this wealth for an hour of
worthless power that dissolved as quickly
as a morning mist.
Five hundred years and more have
been spent in disseminating knowledge
among the more cultured peoples, mil-
lions have been spent on education, and
sret5 r et the masses are astonished with such
miracles as Quiz ‘Kids, astrologers and
the disappearing pea trick.
From ten centuries of noble archi-
tecture we dissolve into the pre-fabricated
igloo. From the glories of art as
wrought and shaped from the dim past
we descend to the grotesqueries of comic
strip.
And while we work little and play and
talk a lot of “deeds that we mean to do,”
Mr. Einstein gently reminds us that
atomic weapons could destroy any nation
in the world within three days.—
E.H.W. (N.S.W.).
The J.P.
One needs much more than a recom-
mendation from one’s member to the
Chief Secretary’s Department (B. 6/8/’47)
before the “Governor in Council, with
the advice of his Executive Council, is
pleased to appoint him to a Commission
of the Peace in the name of His Majesty
King George the Sixth.” In Bananaland
there’s a very strict check-up, and I know
of more than one case which never got
past the police. MsJL.A. nowadays
are open to too much criticism without
giving openings for more by having all
and sundry appointed to the Bench.
Court duties are fewer than in the
past, as even remote districts are usually
under stipendiary jurisdiction; but in
districts where the honorary J.P. is called
to the Bench his brand of justice is apt
to be more human and understanding
than that of a “stipe” who sent an 18-
year-old lad to jail for pinching a water-
melon.
. Most country Js.P. are members of the
Justices’ Association and are aware of
the latest developments concerning their
j°b—and powers. Of course, some mugs,
morons and mollymitts get into the
magistracy, even as they get into Parlia-
ment and the pages of The Bulletin
Being new to this district I checked on
my brother magistrates, in case they were
“bigoted, brainless mischief-makers, or
even flapper or s.p. types.” Number one’s
record astounded me. I am at a loss to
know how a man who has held commis-
sions in two wars could possibly have
been deemed fit to hold a Commission
of the Peace. Particularly as he must
have told a black lie about his age on
enlistment for the last stoush.
Number two was definitely a low type.
He had broken away from convention to
the extent of top-dressing his paddocks,
using milking machines, keeping the best
dairy herd in the district and faithfully
representing his locality on the Shire
Council.
A little self-examination made me think
that I had few qualifications to stand me
in good stead as Honorary Adviser to the
district. I had a lousy education —English
G.P.S. I made such a hash of farming,
that after becoming a registered judge of
livestock, I betook myself to the mines and
became a surveyor. Hitler interrupted
my hideout and, after I’d attained an
adjutancy, the Army decided that it could
get on without me. The sea claimed me
as a disgraced soul and I finished the war
carting ammo from ’Frisco to Calcutta.
I retired to the country after gaining a
Master Mariner’s certificate and now sell
postage stamps and money orders for a
living, in between signing on the dotted
line which ends with a “J.P.” — Video (Q.).
Murray Valley State?
A new State to cover the Murray
Valley (B. 20/8/’47) might have been
justified some years ago, but you won’t
find much enthusiasm for the idea these
days. The financial hold of the Com-
monwealth Government has reduced the
status of the existing States to little more
than that of County Councils, and
N. S, Wales', Victoria and SA. would be
sure to fight against the further loss of
prestige which lopping off of large areas
would entail. They could make out a
pretty good case for letting well alone.
The new State would be at the mercy
of transport strikers in the three adjoin-
ing States, and Murray Valley folk have
a shrewd idea of what that would mean.
There would have to be another Parlia-
ment and Government, all complete with
a public service, for which someone
would have to foot the bill. Another set
of State laws and regulations to baffle
the public and add to border problems
would follow. And what about the
jealousies which would be aroused by
the selection of a capital city?
Then, when all was said and done, a
State with so small a representation at
“Some dirty dog's swiped it!"
Canberra wouldn’t be likely to carry
enough weight to loosen the Treasurer’s
purse-strings. It would have to pay for
its own developmental schemes with
what it could squeeze out of its tax-
payers when Chifley had done with
them.
The best plan is to continue and
strengthen the co-operation between
States which has existed for some time in
the Valley. Growers of dried fruits are
organised in an Australian Dried Fruits
Association, producers of citrus fruits
have a Federal Council and growers of
canning peaches and pears are looked
after by an association of their own. Nor
should it be forgotten that the River
Murray Commission, on which the three
existing States in the Commonwealth are
represented, has already done much good
work. — West Riding (Vic.).
Migration
One Australian has studied the subject
both going and coming. He had a good
business and a desirable residence with
all the usual trimmings when a financial
venture incjuced him to sell out com-
pletely and emigrate.
Within six months a breakdown in
plans and markets compelled him to re-
turn with nothing but a bank balance
and some hand luggage. He could not
build, buy nor rent a house of any kind,
and had great difficulty in securing even
his present “accommodation,” which is
both expensive and inconvenient. Domes-
tic happiness as he knew it is now im-
possible. In spite of his “money in the
bank” he is poor. Business premises,
tools of trade and materials are all un-
procurable.
Whatever political theories he may
have had are rendered obsolete by hard
facts, and he sees his native land as a
stranger must see it on arriving from
some foreign strand. He finds that the
shortages of essential goods are all in
lines' controlled by unions that have the
power to stop production or transport
by militant action. In his view these
unions are really “trusts” possessing
“monopolies” of commodities and skills
Their leaders are “dictators” who ignore
Parliamentary authority and use the
strike weapon for the “profit motive” of
their clique, regardless of the rights of
the individual or the community.
It is difficult to contradict his logic of
events, just as it is hard to prove that we
are not ruled by a group of irresponsible
upstarts who decide the internal and ex-
ternal policy of this land of hope and
glory.— Both Ways (S.A.).
Strikes
“Cadaagi” (B. 27/8/’47) does not be-
lieve that agitators can cause strikes un-
less the men are dissatisfied, but how
many men would be actually dissatisfied
if it were not for the manoeuvring of
the agitators? Subtle whispering cam-
paigns and soap-box oratory can breed
discontent where none existed before,
and men who were satisfied —their work
wasn’t strenuous and the wages were
good—begin, under the battering of the
agitator, to wonder if they are mugs after
all. That is the state of mind the agi-
tator strives to obtain, for it is then that
the men are ready to listen to suggestions
for a strike.
So often do the agitators bleat “We are
working for you; the employers are
against you” that it impresses all except
the most stubborn. And the unimpressed
rarely last in their job, for the agitator
has ways of seeing that their services are
dispensed* with, or conditions made so
unpleasant for them that they leave.
As a practical example, take Roy. He
got a job in Government workshops,
where he infuriated several men by work-
ing too quickly. Twice he was ordered
to go slower, and when he protested that
he was already in slow motion things
began to happen. Lumps of coal hit
him when his back was turned, a wrench
fell on his head, a slab of wood on his
toes and hints of worse “accidents” were
dropped.
After a few weeks Roy threw up his
job, disgusted with the manoeuvrings of
the agitators who would not work them-
selves or allow anyone else to do so,
either. Others less independent kept
their jobs and the peace by falling in
with the go-slow tactics. Having had
their lesson they know who rules the
workshops, and they do half a job or
strike as the agitating element suggests.
—Mark Time (Q.).
“Cadaagi’s” defence of “cheer-chasing
agitators” would be more convincing if
he did not ignore so many of the facts.
Strikes are not all struggles between
soulless employers and impoverished
workers. Sometimes they result from
“domestic” quarrels in or between
unions, from a desire to control interna-
tional policy, or even from the mislaying
of a pair of boots or trousers'. Almost
any excuse will do, but in every case the
women and children of the strikers and
of other workers are the chief sufferers
through the inevitable shortages.
Some of the cheer-chasers themselves
contradict “C.” They openly state that
their objective is Communism and that
strikes are a means to that end. They
ban secret ballots, reject arbitration and
override Parliamentary and union laws.
If such leaders are Commos their fol-
lowers can’t object to the same brand.
The only way to provide comforts for
the wives and kids is to produce the
goods. The men who strike, go slow,
restrict output and demand shorter
hours with longer holidays are more
concerned with their own comfort than
with the housing, clothing, warming and
feeding of the often-quoted but seldom-
consulted “women and children
Buicks (S.A.),
“Sudden Death”
That was the title of a pamphlet I re-
ceived when I first learned to drive a
car. I think it was issued with my licence
On page two:
An enterprising Judge now and again sen-
tences reckless drivers to tour the accident
end of a city mortuary. But even a mangled
body on a slab, waxily portraying the con-
sequences of bad motoring judgment, isn’t
a patch on the scene itself. No artist work-
ing on a safety poster would dare depict
that in full detail.. ..It should portray the
slack expression on the face of a man
drugged with shock, staring at the Z-twist.
1 b bis broken leg; the insane crumpled
effect of a child’s body after its bones are
crushed inward; a realistic portrait of a
hysterical woman with her screaming mouth
opening a hole in the bloody drip that fills
her eyes and runs off her chin.
It runs to about 1000 words, altogether.
It kept me cruising well under 30 during
the five years I drove a car.
The driver is death’s favorite target. If
the steering-wheel holds together, it rup-
tures his liver or spleen, so he bleeds to
death instantly. Or, if the steering wheel
breaks off, the matter is settled instantly
by the steering column plunging through
his abdomen.,
It originated from the pen of an
American journalist named Joseph
Furnas. His object was to shock
motorists' into a realisation of the appal-
ling increase in the number of road
accidents weekly. He succeeded. His
article went out with every road licence
and number plate in Wyoming before
the war. New York issued it to every
user of the Holland Tunnel and Washing-
ton Bridge. It was included in the litera-
ture of every safety-first campaign
throughout the pre-war U.S.A.
So:
Every time you pass on a blind curve,
every time you hit it up on a slippery road,
every tjme you step on it harder than your
reflexes will safely take, every time you
drive with your reactions slowed down by a
drink or two, every time you follow the
man ahead too closely, you’re gambling a
few seconds against this kind of blood
and agony and sudden death. Take a look
at yourself as the man in the white jacket
shakes his head over you, tells the boys
with the stretcher not to bother and turns
away to somebody else who isn’t quite dead
yet. And then take it easy.
It might be a good idea if the authori-
ties concerned paid Mr. Furnas a few
more bob in royalties. It should save
human lives.— ltchy (Tas,).
The Same Old Story
My friend has an inquiring mind which
led him to invite an acquaintance, a
Communist professional man, to dine
with us at his club. I like good talk and
enjoy listening to reasoned arguments on
any subject, so I anticipated an interest-
ing hour.
No subtlety was needed to steer the
conversation towards Communism. Our
intellectual brought out his battery of
biggest guns and fired them off one by
one. Within a minute I was bored. The
guns went off regularly and monoton-
ously, like a tolling bell, so that my ear
was never free of the echo. It was, in
fact, all an echo of countless arguments
I had heard years before: the “system”
was to blame; the bourgeois were wicked,
the masses oppressed ; capitalists misused
the means of production and workers
were their slaves; interest on loans and
dividends on shares kept the idle rich
profits should be returned to the
people... .money the greatest evil
grasping monopolists The bell tolled
on.
“What sort of economy do you suggest
as an idea?” my friend asked.
He waved away the irrelevancy, “I
don’t know anything about economics,
but it’s obvious you’ve got to change the
system.”
“What advantage do you see for the
people if the private trading banks are
nationalised?”
“A very great step forward towards the
ideal of public ownership of property.”
“But ”
“It’s a world-wide trend. You can’t
stop it. Look at Soviet Russia.”
When he left I felt grateful for my
bourgeois freedom to choose my own
friends. I was glad to hurry home to
the cheerful and slightly more rational
twaddle of my son, who will soon be old
enough to attend kindergarten.— Homer
(Q-).


The Banks
So Mr. Chifiey, among other wonder-
ful things, is to “take over the staffs of
the ‘trading’ banks.” I’m too old for the
game now, but I worked for years for a
“financial octopus.” I liked the job well,
and put all I had into serving in every
State on the mainland. It meant hard
work and long hours, particularly in
earlier service and as a young manager
battling to do his best for his bank and
its customers.
Now all the boys, young and old, are
to be swept into Labor’s octopus'. They
will have to scrap their careers and start
off again in a concern that knows nothing
personally of their worth, loyalty and
mateship. I don’t know that banking
could be ranked as a profession, but it
is at least a highly-skilled trade. You
“serve your time” right enough as a boy
and right up to the time you arrive any-
where worth while. All men in high
posts know the game from end to end and
got where they are by sheer ability.
There is no “pull,” as is often talked
of. Not even a letter from Eddie Ward
would help.
I did not reach the very top, but did
quite well without losing one old friend
who could not make the grade. It is a
peculiar calling. A man may be clever
but lack the tact in being a friend to his
customers. Don’t talk to an old hand
of “economists.” It takes more than a
medal and university black nightshirt to
do the best for a cocky in a run of bad
seasons.
Later on one learns of trading and
manufacturing concerns —what to do and
when to stop. If a “trading” bank man
runs into a bad debt he is in for a darned
bad time. Directors want to know all
about it, I suppose in the “people’s”
bank a write-off does not count and, any-
way, it could be covered with a bit more
taxation.
Except for such men as they got from
the “traders” the Commonwealth Bank
staff is not well trained in general prac-
tice. As an instance, you can’t get the
guts of a proposition by asking a man
to fill in a form —there’s a lot more in it
than that. You want his confidence and
can get it, too, if you knoW how.
I did not intend to wail —only to put
in a word for a fine lot of blokes. But
can anyone tell me how the purchase
money will be provided? It is now stated
In the daily press at about £70,000,000,
plus a mere further £2,000,000 for
premises, etc. I can’t manage more than
a quid or two myself, but perhaps Dr.
Evatt and his pals will help Ben out. —
Teller’s Devil (W.A.).
One of the most unpleasant aspects of
Chifley’s bank-nationalisation move is
the insolence with which he has treated
the people, whose servant he is supposed
to be. After announcing the most revo-
lutionary project in Australia’s history
he disdained to reveal details of his plan
or to explain to the country the reasons
why he considers so momentous a step
necessary.— Sam (N.S.W.).
Japan’s Future
No Australian will quarrel with anything
said at Dr. Evatt’s Canberra conference
about the punishment the Japanese richly
deserve for their aggression and their
cruelty to helpless civilians and to p.-0.-w.
It will take generations to wipe out
memories of Sandakan, the Burma rail-
way and atrocities in the islands. That
the Japs would try again, if given the
chance, and fight just as dirty, nobody
would dream of denying.
But the consideration at Canberra was
about terms to be imposed so that Japan
should be (1) properly supervised, (2) re-
educated so as to function peaceably in
the distant future when supervision is
withdrawn, (3) enabled industrially to
pay its own way. The conference pro-
posed these restraints upon Japan’s future
commercial activities:
Limitation of Japanese territory to the
four main islands.
Control of Japanese imports. .
Limitation of commercial shipping to
home-island trade, which would presumably
limit also tonnage of merchant ships
allowed to be built. ...
Renunciation of all rights and interests,
public and private, outside Japan.
The Japanese population numbers over
70 millions. The area of the four mam
islands is 147,000 square miles, less than
half that of N. S. Wales; and only about
one-sixteenth of it is arable. Minerals
are scarce. The Japanese must impor
much of their food and most materials
for industry. Fish is a staple diet with
them, and their northern fishing grounds
have now passed to Russia. If they are
to be kept penned into their home islands
they must manufacture goods m great
volume, in order to support themselves,
and their foreign trade in the past has
relied upon, and been augmented by, the
returns of their merchant shipping, which
plied to every part of the world.
Before the war the nations now dictat-
ing the peace terms rightly opposed Japan-
ese migration and fought what was often a
losing struggle against Japanese com-
petitive goods, especially textiles. Be-
cause of this opposition the Japanese
sought in Manchuria an outlet for surplus
population and investment, and a source
of raw materials. The “Far Eastern
Question” now begins all over again: In
what direction is Japanese energy to
expand, and how?
It is not necessary to mitigate any con-
demnation of this aggressive people —
who have set Asia alight once, and may
do it again—to point out irresistible
economic facts against which political
counsels of perfection will batter in vain.
To ordain, for instance, that the Japanese,
a sailor race, shall not sail about the
seas lest world-security K e endangered
may have seemed in Canbeira desirable,
but it is not possible.
The Allied supervisory commission, as
contemplated, will have its hands full —
perhaps too full when Russia starts bad-
gering China again. In that day the
Australian Government may find itself
wishing the Japs were back in Manchuria,
though not as militarists. It is a fairly
safe bet that, whether the world wishes
it or not, Japan will turn again that way.
What Mr. Calwell meant when, voicing
his apprehensions about Japanese expan-
sion to the southwards, he indicted the
Black Dragon Society is not clear. The
motif is the Black Dragon River (Heilung-
Kiang or Amur) on the north Manchurian
boundary; and Japanese leaders ol an
earlier day regarded the Amur River as
their strategic frontier in the same way
that Mr. Baldwin spoke of Britain’s
frontier as on the Rhine.
Wars, whatever their origin, settle no-
thing. They not only fail to solve exist-
ing problems, but create new ones.
China Seas (N.S.W.).
Morale
The idea that an army marches on its
stomach has been embellished to such
an extent that today it seems accepted
that an army marches on ice-cream and
snakes and ladders. Amenities are con-
sidered an essential without which morale
would slump.
From 1941-46 troops in the forward
areas had a rough spin. Little was done
to make life more bearable for them.
Their salvation lay in final victory.
During the same period thousands of
uniformed men were stationed in the
capital cities experiencing no discomfort.
Yet people fell over each other to provide
amenities for them. The authorities en-
couraged it to improve the men’s
“morale.” Surely good morale among
troops in back areas would have been a
desire to get on with the business and
finish it. The amenity craze must have
had the reverse effect —life was made too
pleasant for any but the most conscien-
tious to want to go north.
Henry Morgan achieved his victories
by making the going tough. When about
to attack Panama City he had his men on
short rations. The city was full of food
and the men’s stomachs were empty.
They fought hard to get it.
Had the same principle been applied
to “our boys” reclining on the mainland
during the war they would have been
more eager to get on with the job that
the soldiers at the front were tackling.
—Minto (Q.).
Dangerous Drugs
Sydney papers have had articles on the
increasing numbers of drug addicts. One
said the craving for heroin among ex-
“You push , Tummas , and I'll pull !”
servicemen was due to neglect by those
in authority in service hospitals.
That is a complete falsehood, as heroin
was not an Army issue to any medical
units except base hospitals and even then
only in minute amounts as a “Special
Purchase.” As one who handled the sup-
plies of morphia and its derivatives in
many units, I know that the quantifies
used were not excessive. To blame those
in authority for subsequent addiction is
ca wrnne that it is inexcusable. .
The N. S. Wales Police Commissioner
should have investigated the
further What check was there on drugs
brought in by “Allied” servicemen?
Illegal possession of marihuana was a r
cent charge against a black. .
The police are zealous in checking th
drug registers of chemists. Never
during my army career did they enter a
medical unit and check the dangerous-
drug register. A thorough system of
checking was devised by Melbourne, and
the instructions were carried out by the
various pharmacists in such units, inat
was sufficient to prevent supplies reach-
ing the wrong hands. —R. W. (N.S.W.).
Ward’s Wards
Alas for poor “Momokan” (B.
3/ 9 / ’47) and his feelings when he writes
on “Ward’s Wards.” The only reason
the natives were “ruined by the troops
was that the average chap liked to see a
human being have a “fair go.” We had
heard a lot about the conditions of the
natives before the war came to New
Guinea, but we only heard part of it.
Why should a chosen few be given the
right to exploit these poor people? The
social pages of the flapper press were full
of the doings of the inhabitants of N.G.
when they came to Sydney or any other
capital city for their three months’ fur-
lough each year. It was only by the use
of cheap labor that plantation products
could be sold at such a profit that such
vacations were possible. We even heard
of tennis players flying from Wau to
Port Moresby for a game.
I was attached to a large hospital in
N.G., and at times a gang of natives,
under a corporal from Angau would
come out to do some of the chores about
the grounds. They dug trenches, cut the
grass and cleaned the area of all papers
and rubbish. For this they were paid
approximately 3d. a day and their keep.
This did not seem fair to us, but when
we asked the corporal about it he said
that the authorities “did not want to
spoil things for,the planters when they
returned.”
Might I ask “M.” just how long it took
him to acquire the knowledge to be
“0.1. C. of the biggest native-labor com-
pound in Papua-New Guinea”? By the
sound of his letter his experience was as
broad as his understanding of the prob-
lem.—R.W. (N.S.W.).
Intelligence Tests
So the Canberra Brasshats have de-
cided to scrap the battery of intelligence
tests for Army recruits, thereby jettison-
ing a scheme which has not been found
wanting by Britain, the U.S.A. or
Germany.
By using the I.Q. criterion the British
pre-selection boards avoided all sugges-
tion of Old School prejudice in search
for officer candidates. The U.S.A., by
the same means, fitted round pegs into
circular holes. Though the scheme was
pioneered by the Americans towards the
end of 1914-18, Fritz was miles ahead of
anyone in the last shindy, as evidenced by
his application of the Rorscharch tech-
nique to his Luftwaffe recruits.
The Rorscharch test is an exhaustive
personality analysis and is a German in-
vention, designed at the measuring of the
subconscious potential of the candidate.
In Australia there are very few academi-
cally qualified to administer the test, while
those able to interpret results can be
counted on the fingers of one hand. By
professional procedure the findings of a
Rorscharch analysis are never published
to'the subject—awareness of the short-
comings of his subconscious self would
be such a shock to the conscious ego
that a neurosis is a nearly certain sequel.
The test itself is virtually an applica-
tion of the childish pastime of spilling
an inkpot on a piece of paper and then
folding the latter, so that an irregular out-
line is made. The candidate is then
quizzed as to what images are suggested
to him by the chance outlines. By his
answers the Rorscharch technicians can
obtain a truly scientific insight into his
submerged personality.
The low incidence of wastage through
neurosis in the German Army, as com-
pared with the. Allied forces, convincingly
demonstrates the worth of the fritz
system. — Curate’s Egg (Q-)-
Root of the Matter
Sydney “Sun” runs a daily column
headed “The Stars—and You.” One
Tuesday issue warned readers:
On Wednesday afternoon distrust gossip,
register important mail matter, don t depend
on promises, check up lest important items
get mislaid, and do not let anyone use you
as a foil. Also beware domestic accidents
or quarrels in late evening.
Now, it had never occurred to me to do
anything like this on Wednesday after-
noon. I had fully intended to go hay-
wire with the mail, believe everything that
was said to me, to be used as a foil at the
drop of a hat, to say nothing of my
plans for soaping the bath before having
a shower and snarling at the family in
late evening.” But forewarned is fore-
armed—L. L. (N.S.W.).
“C.B.M.’s” argument (B. 27/8/’47)
may be applied to the old-time pill-
roller,” who, in spite of his lack of
academic qualifications, could, when it
came to dispensing, sbow his present-
day colleague a thing or two. If registra-
tion carries with it more efficiency and
greater knowledge let us have more of
it. But although the present-day pharma-
cist may know more of theoretical
chemistry and allied sciences, is the public
any better served than it was at the turn
of the century when training was given in
the dispensary rather than at the uni-
versity? —R. W. (N.S.W.).
The recent Wonthaggi coalmine dis-
pute over the actions of a weighman was
an indication of the extent to which the
boss v. worker battles have taken us.
The railway commissioners, the mine
managers and foremen were grouped to-
gether on one side and the miners on the
other. The “bosses” argued that to give m
once was a show of weakness and resulted
in more “requests.” The miners fought to
the bitter end to gain their point and in-
crease their bargaining power. But what
of the weighman? His actions became
clouded over as the two factions fought
for supremacy. The stronger group won
and he was judged either guilty or not
guilty accordingly. A queer example
of British justice.— Astor (Vic.).
If the Commonwealth Government
really intends to beat hoarders by calling
in the note issue, it’s a pity that the kite-
flying announcement was not accom-
panied by an immediate suspension of the
uncontrolled sale of Savings Certificates
—undisguised blessings to the hoarder
and tax-dodger. On the day following
the press announcement, the branch bank
where I work sold more certificates than
in the preceding 12 months and by the
following day the reserve stocks of several
banks were exhausted. Thirty-five
(N.S.W.).
Bankstown, which comprises most of
his electorate, isn’t the only municipality
that Mr. McGirr kept out of his “Greater
Sydney” (B. 20/8/’47). He also excluded
Strathfield, the municipality he lives in,
although the adjacent Concord and Bur-
wood municipalities are included. For
Burwood it means higher rates —a certain
widespread result of absorption into
“Greater Sydney,” Strathfield rates are
low. — Critic (N.S.W.).
Two men who control a large indus-
trial undertaking in our provincial city
can never be persuaded to support Liberal
interests because they believe in “mod-
erate Labor.” The fallacy that Chifley
and a few others are the moderates
prodded on by Ward and Calwell has
been exploded —as Menzies has pointed
ou t —by the threatened expropriation of
the banks. If you support “Labor,” you
have to go the whole way and accept
socialisation of the means of production,
distribution and exchange—there’s no
half-way house. The sooner everybody
appreciates this point, the sooner these
dangerous socialists masquerading as
“moderates” will be thrown out on their
necks.— Dutigalla (Vic.).
Is “Jindivick” (B. 27 /8 / ’47) certain
that some of the cures for which patients
fly to America could not have been per-
formed here? Recently, amid much
newspaper publicity, a Melbourne girl
was taken to America for an operation
which a Brisbane surgeon claimed to
have performed successfully a number of
times. America may be ahead of Aus-
tralia in medical science in some w a Y s >
but do patients who rush off to the
U.S.A. make every inquiry to see if they
can be cured here? — Mark Time (Q.).


READ THIS: IT WILL SHOCK YOU!
LABOUR’S OFFICIAL RECORDS SHOW ITS REAL
REASON FOR WANTING TO SEIZE THE BANKS
The Official Reports of the All Australian Trade Union Conference of 1921, show that a special committee
headed by Mr. J. H. Scullin, later Labour Prime Minister of Australia, who sat in alliance with the then
General Secretary of the Communist Party (J. S. Garden) and devised the following sinister plan:
The objective was set out as:
“The Socialisation of Industry, Production, Distribution and Exchange”
This objective to be attained by the following steps:
1. The destruction of the craft unions, their replacement by
"Industrial" unions.
2. Nationalisation of banking and all principal Industries.
3. Introduction of control of nationalised industries by boards,
consisting of representatives of workers and the community.
4. The establishment of an elective Supreme Council by nationalised
industries, to take the place of Parliament.
This plan was sponsored by two future Labour Prime Ministers,
(Messrs. Scullin and Curtin). It was advocated by the Chairman of
the conference (E. J. Holloway, now Minister for Labour and Industry
in the dialect of Communism), and by a future Labour Premier
(Prendergast of Victoria). It was accepted and voted for by two other
future Labour Premiers (Wilcock and Collier, W.A.), along with
Norman Makin (now Ambassador to Washington, lately one of Mr.
Chifley’s Ministers), John Beasley (High Commissioner to Great
Britain), by “Jock” Garden, now Mr. E. J. Ward’s right hand man,
A. S. Drakeford, Air Minister, by George Lawson, lately Minister for
Transport in the Chifley Government, by J. M. Baddeley, Deputy
Premier of New South Wales, by Albert Willis, now Chairman of the
Commonwealth Central Coal Authority, founder of the Labour Daily,
and lately President of the Australian Labour Party, by D. Clyne,
later Labour Speaker of New South Wales Assembly. It was voted
for almost unanimously by 140 odd delegates to the conference.
Make no mistake about what was and is intended.
Mr. J. 11. Scullin, future Prime Minister, Mr. Chifley’s most
trusted counsellor, moved its adoption and said:
“We want you to adopt this report in globo. We want the
parliamentary machine to give sanction to our proposal; From those
industries nationalised shall be chosert a General Economic Council
which will really take the place of our Parliaments today ... If I
thought Imperial Federation meant a republic I would vote for it.”
(Official Report, P. 9 and 37).
Mr. A. C. Willis, later President of the Australian Labour Party,
now Chairman, Central Coal Commission, said:
“The Russians have a Soviet form of Government . . . but
they are building up what will be the real Government of Russia, a
Supreme Economic Council ... So far as we are concerned there is
nothing to prevent us in this country from forming this special
machinery save the indifference of the people. If you can build up
that complete system of machinery for the whole thing, then our
political government will not count that much.” (Mr. Willis held
up his pencil.) (Official Report, P. 13).
Mr. John Baddeley, now Deputy Premier of New South Wales
said:
“If our friend, (i.e. another speaker), has the idea that we
are going to function (in the socialisation period) under the Parlia-
mentary methods that exist today, I am against it.”
(Official Report, P. 5).
Mr. J. S. Garden, General Secretary of the Communist Party,
now right hand man to E. J. Ward and Campaign Director, East
Sydney Electorate, said:
“Working class people should go to Parliament to prove it use-
less ... we on the (drafting) committee were all of the same opinion.”
(Official Report, P. 11).
Mr. G. M, Prendergast, M.L.A., Leader of the Victorian Labour
Party, later Premier of Victoria, said:
“I regard the report as eminently successful . . . one which
provides a line on which men can fight which had not been done in the
past ... a decided step forward over any organisation scheme we have
had in the past.” , (Official Report, P. 12).
Mr. John Curtin, Wartime Labour Prime Minister, founder of
the Chifley Ministry, father of its policies, secured that from the date
of the conference onwards all Labour candidates for Parliament
and other office must sign a pledge to work for this diabolical scheme.
CAN THERE BE ANY DOUBT WHAT
NATIONALISATION IS FOR?
Already the first steps of the Socialist plan near completion, as
follows:
1. Craft Unions have been abolished in all hey industries, their places
taken, in accordance with the conference resolution, by huge
industrial unions, every one of them governed by a member of
the Central Committee of the Communist Party Seamen
(Elliott) ; Ironworkers (Thornton) ; Sheet Metal and Metal Group
(Wright); Watersiders (Healy and others); Building Industry
(Thompson); Coal (Williams); Railways (Brown and others);
Federated Clerks (Hughes).
This group is already an interim Supreme Economic Council on
the Russian and Trade Union Conference lines. When it gives its
orders, as Mr. Willis declared would be the case, “the Political
Government matters no more than a held up pencillt controls
the Chifley Government in foreign affairs, in shipping, in industry
as easily as a dog wags its tail.
2. Australia has gone far along the road to the republic advocated by
Mr. Scullin. The appointment has been made as Governor-General,
of an active Labour politician who has been subject to the whims
of this unionist junta for years, and who has pledged himself
time and time again in writing to the Socialisation objective.
3. Parliament has been reduced to a state in which the Communist
Party Training Manual says that it can be easily destroyed; viz;
a state in which “it merely registers and gives legal sanction to
the decisions arrived at by the ruling class elsewhere,” with
“the real seat of the dominant class outside Parliament.”
(Communist Party Training Manual, P. 33).
WITH PRELIMINARIES
ACCOMPLISHED THE WRECKERS
ARE READY TO STRIKE
LENIN said:
“The fundamental first step (to socialisation) is the nationalisa-
tion of banks . . . Through nationalisation of banks even the small
consumers can be tied hand and foot.
OSWALD MOSLEY, Head of the British Fascist Party, said;
“Credit and Banking are the key to the Fortress . . . with those
things in our hands we have them at our Mercy”
Nationalisation of banking is the key which they intend to use to
open the door to the abolition of Parliament, to revolution, to
Communist rule and despotism.
In the face of these grim facts—unquestionable, documented up
to hilt from Labour’s own official records—let Mr. Chifley disprove
it if he can.
Treachery to the Constitution is abroad in the land, our
hamstrung Parliament is marked down for slaughter.
Out with the Destroyers—Restore Australia’s Freedoms.
WE NEED A GENERAL ELECTION
Inserted by THE INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS (N.S.W.), 19 Bligh Street, Sydney.
FUNDS ARE NEEDED
FOR THIS CAMPAIGN
DONATIONS WILL BE
GRATEFULLY RECEIVED
