

GREAT WESTERN Sparkling Wines
ARE PRODUCTS OF THE
f
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3542
Wednesday, December 31, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelt’s
A FAVOURITE RESIDENCE OF SCOTLAND'S KINGS WAS ELEGANT FALKLAND PALACE
COME thirty-six miles north from Edinburgh, in Fifeshire, is the
royal burgh and village of Falkland, nestling below East
Lomond Hill. Falkland’s chief attraction is its palace, formerly
the residence of the dukes of Fife and within whose walls many
a Scottish monarch has lived. James V found refuge and died
here in 1542, and in 1715 Rob Roy was a guest at Falkland. There
was a castle on this site, and in that castle the young duke of
Rothesay, in 1402 when heir apparent, is said to have been starved
to death, although Sir Walter Scott in his “The Fair Maid of
Perth” gives a different version of the story. Falkland Palace is
not a pathetic ruin. The main building was saved from decay and
restored by the Bruces of Falkland early in the nineteenth century,
and later Lord Bute spared neither time nor money to
bring back to the stately pile something of its ancient
grandeur. Notable features of the palace are its twelve great
rooms with their ceilings of emblazoned arms, its chapel royal
with its great screen richly carven and its splendid Flemish
tapestries.


Learn v
V^f|
at NOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Pleqse send, without obligation, your Hew Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin’*
My Name
My Address
S.B 247
AGE
The Red Page
ARAB AND JEW.
Topicality aside, John Van Ess’s Meet
the Arab (Museum Press) is an important'
book. The author is an American teach-
ing missionary, an admitted authority and,
in the course of a long working lifetime
in the Middle East he has met every Arab
of consequence ; or has, at least, educated
some of their sons.
The Arab, naturally, is the chief con-
cern of the book, but the relations of
the Arab—Bedouin, Marsh Arab and town
dweller —with the other main branch of
the Semitic race come inevitably into the
theme ; a; relationship, incidentally, not
uniformly bloody, for in the most impres-
sive phases of Arab civilisation Jews were
favored minorities, and in recent times
there have been considerable populations
of Jews in Arabia proper with no more
apparent desire to go back to Palestine
than have their vociferous co-religionists
in New York.
Van Ess has a couple of chapters on
Palestine itself, and these, if not the most
important in the book, are exceptionally
interesting. Like many another, Van Ess
has a Plan, buNunlike many planners he
has studied his subject exhaustively, has
the inestimable advantage of first-hand
experience and flavors his comments with
the good salt of commonsense.
The plan itself was published as early
as 1937 in the “Palestine Post” and pro-
voked the comment from the then British
High Commissioner that he could see
nothing wrong with it “but it was too
plausible.” Van Ess himself seems to
have a distrust for plausibility —for-
theorising and over-simplification of any
kind—but, as a choice of evils and a
matter of necessity, he favors partition,
balanced and conditioned by a federation
of Middle East States:
The forming of a federation consisting of
five States: Lebanon, Syria, Jebel Druze,
Israiliyeh... .and Urduniyah The fed-
eration to be bound together on the general
plan of the United States of America....
each constituent State would be autonomous
within its own borders in affairs which
concern itself alone, as, for example, local
revenue, security, justice, education, health
and immigration
“Israiliyeh,” as defined by Van Ess,
would be the Palestine of the Jews, an
area including most of Judea and the
south country to the Gulf of Aqaba. This
roughly approximates to the present U.N.
division, and Van Ess states that much
of the south (Negeb) country, hitherto in-
habited by a few Bedouin, has sub-soil
water and, possibly, minerals and oil.
“Urduniyah” would be the rest of Pales-
tine—Arab territory—plus Transjordan,
and Jerusalem would have a separate
status under international supervision
In broad outline the division is not un-
like the present theoretical arrangement,
except that Van Ess would not have a
corridor to Jaffa. Corridors, he need
hardly have mentioned, have an unfortu-
nate history. The great difference lies in
federation, and in what may be called
the background of events. Such a
scheme, Van Ess states repeatedly, can
have a chance of success only if entered
into in cold blood, and with effective in-
ternational backing under the leadership
of Britain. Here, too, as an added con-
trast to the recent state of affairs, Van
Ess expressly warns against United States
interference.- His own country, he con-
siders, has been far too vocal—and ill-
informed—on Middle East affairs.
The inherent weakness in Van Ess’s
plan, as in the U.N. scheme, is that im-
migration will be left to the Jews them-
selves —and the Jews, ironically, may not
be too happy about a flood of immi-
grants. But federation itself, if some-
what utopian in theory, would have cer-
tain clear advantages. Van Ess em-
phasises the fact that, apparent prosperity
notwithstanding, Palestine is not econo-
mically self-sufficient and that the Jewish
population has been fairly heavily sub-
sidised from overseas. He believes that
for economic reasons Palestine must, in
the long run, co-operate with other
Middle East States, and that:
There is no physical, political or economic
reason for isolating Palestine. The only
justification, therefore, would be that at
one time in history Palestine, for a purely
temporary reason, was the locus where a
great idea was fostered. A parallel would
be that Plymouth should be for ever
American because it once played so large
apart in the lives of the Pilgrim Fathers
Getting away from economics, Van
Ess takes respectful cognisance of psy-
chological factors, of real hatreds between
Jews and Arabs ; he notes a fact generally
ignored by commentators and Zionist
spokesmen but obvious to any Australian
who served, in Palestine in the latest war
—the marked demarcations, if not divi-
sions, among the Jews themselves. Van
Ess divides the Jews into broad cate-
gories: (1) Religious Zionists, backed by
strong organisations in Europe- and
America, who believe “that any human
effort, particularly if tainted by the pre-
sence in it of irreligious people, cannot
be blessed by the God of Israel” (an
extremely orthodox sect, the Chasidim,
who wear fur hats, long tunics and screw
curls, consider Hebrew too sacred for
ordinary conversation and rarely associ-
ate with other Jews); (2) Cultural Zion-
ists, of the type of Dr. Judah Magnes, of
the Hebrew University, unacceptable to
the extremists but “a splendid scholar and
gentleman” who has a plan which Van
Ess considers practicable only if “all
Jews were like Dr. Magnes” ; (3) Eco-
nomic Zionists, including the violent Left,
Marxists who insist on speaking Yiddish
and despise Hebrew as “a barrier against
the workers of the world” and who (a
Jewish family employing a non-Jewish
servant is liable to have cobblestones
thrown through the windows) are con-
sidered particularly dangerous by the
Arab leaders; and (4) the Revisionists,
whose leader was Jabotinsky (now dead)
and who are terrorists.
On the ethics of claims, Jewish and
Arab, Van Ess takes the simple- course
of dismissing both arguments. Of the
Balfour Declaration he states that, apart
from the fact that it came two years after
the MacMahon Commitment to the
Arabs, it promised the Jews only a
“National Home”:—?
Now, my home is at present in the city
of New York, where I live in a rented
apartment belonging to Columbia Univer-
sity. But that does not imply that I can
or do run Columbia University, much less
the City of New York... .To my mind the
British have already paid in full their obli-
gation by fostering and protecting the home
for the Jewish culture, which is by all odds
the most precious thing the Jews possess.
Of the Arab case, Van Ess observes that,
although they have right of residence, un-
broken for centuries, they were not self-
governing. The Turks governed them for
four hundred years, “and it was, in the
last analysis, the British forces under
General Allenby that drove out the
Turks.”
The ethics of the matter, Van Ess
plainly thinks, have been somewhat over-
canvassed, colored by romance and
propaganda, and excessively strained.
What is important is practicability: and
the chances that a bonfire in the Middle
East could hardly end as a minor con-
flagration. On the practical level there
is the question of homeless Jews. Van
Ess;, like most neutral observers, thinks
they could be accommodated elsewhere.
Dealing specifically with the Arab, who
is his principal theme, Van Ess shows
him, not only as he appears today, in an
uneasy state of nationalistic adolescence
—and, as Van Ess remarks, “nobody
loves an adolescent” —but in relation to
a long and sometimes brilliant past.
History, literature and, above all,
language are treated, not exhaustively,
but clearly. Van Ess has that rare and
merciful kind of scholarship that informs
without dismaying. Religion is dwelt on
fully—it is, according to Van Ess, im-
possible to comprehend Arab behavior
without some knowledge of the Koran.
And his wife supplies a chapter on that
other powerful conditioning agent, the
harem.
The book is enlivened by comment on
famous personalities, such as Feisal,
Lawrence, Glubb Pasha, Hussein, Ibn
Saud, Gertrude Bell and others, some of
it —the note on Lawrence, for instance —
contrary to accepted opinion:
He was a man of great personal courage
and carried out some brilliant guerrilla ex-
ploits against Turkish lines of communi-
cation. It was the gold which he in great
quantities ladled out that stimulated the
interest and enthusiasm of the Arab tribes,
and, judging from his Seven Pillars, he
takes for himself alone credit which is justly
due to other British officers like Kirkbride,
Joyce, Winterton, Newcombe, Peake, and
others. His knowledge of the Arabic
language was very ordinary and his con-
stant appearing in Arab clothes at Ver-
sailles was a bit of childish exhibitionism.
His political judgment was faulty and the
notion that he was a sort of Sir Galahad
or miracle man is, of course, nonsense. In
Iraq he left scarcely a ripple, and his
memory is fast fading on the other side of
the peninsula. His activities cannot be at
all compared with those of Leachman, or
with those of Glubb, whom I consider far
and away the most capable British officer
who has dealt with Arab tribesmen.
Of the British, generally, Van Ess writes
with admiration: with balance, too, and
with qualifications, but he repeatedly
states his opinion that they have been
the ablest administrators the Middle East
has known ; and he expresses his admira-
tion in the present tense.
Mrs. Holman's Memoirs.
One of the best of the sketches of nota-
bilities in Mrs. Ada H. Holman’s
Memoirs of a Premier’s Wife (Angus and
Robertson) is that of H. G. Wells, Wells
is clearly described —“Now I can always
see the great man’s nuggety and seemingly
unbrushed head, his dingy complexion,
the tubby figure in its ill-fitting suit, no
one of these items of moment against the
eyes shining with intellect, flashing and
sparkling as no other eyes I have seen”—
and anecdote and incident give the reader
an equally clear picture of life at Wells’s
home at Easton Glebe.
At Dunmow, where the bacon comes
from, the Holmans and four other guests
are packed into the small battered car
which had figured in Mr. Britling Sees It
Through and Wells drives them to his
modernised farmhouse at Easton Glebe.
The guests spend the week-end keeping
pace with Wells’s formidable energy—
playing outdoor games of the novelist’s
own invention, eating outsize strawberries
supplied by an admirer, marching in the
heat over ploughed fields to inspect an
antique well, speculating on Wells’s
attachment to a Chinese princess, and,
under the giant blue cedar-tree which also
featured in Mr. Britling, engaging in
“passionate discussions of all things in
heaven and earth.”
Good as this is, the opening of the
Wells chapter provides an instance of the
principal weakness of the book —a mix-
ture of reticence and momentary out-
spokenness that makes too many of the
portraits tantalising rather than satisfying.
Mrs. Holman, clearly, finds it embarrass-
ing to discuss Wells’s visit to Australia.
She says “he ‘got in bad’ with the press
and the Government” and adds “To be
candid, Mr. Wells’s manners were not
very good.” But this, practically without
amplification, is not, after all, being very
candid.
As the Wells chapter varies between
the tactful and the pictorial so does the
book as a whole. It opens with some
vivid glimpses of W. A. Holman, but the
author has not set out to write here a
detailed history of her husband’s distin-
guished career or of the intricacies of
N. S. Wales politics. Mrs. Holman is
concerned with personalities and nota-
bilities: in Australia, Melba and various
State Governors; in England, occupying
the bulk of the book, Lloyd George,
Ramsay MacDonald, Baldwin, the Duke
of Windsor, John Burns, T. P. O’Connor,
Snowden, Jimmy Thomas, Margaret
Bondfield, Nancy Astor, Emmeline Pank-
hurst, Marie Corelli; in America, Presi-
dent Wilson.
On the whole, it is the various vice-
royalties who give Mrs. Holman her best
material. Since she found Jimmy Thomas
“the only one of Mr. MacDonald’s fol-
lowers with any idea of fun” the remain-
ing politicians hardly make lively por-
traits ; but the Marquis of Lincolnshire,
for instance, “who as Lord Carrington
had in prehistoric days been a Governor
in New South Wales,” is a delight:
Most of the “Lords” looked patriarchal,
but Lord Carrington was incredibly ancient,
and was not only incapable of hearing a
sound, but imagined that no one could
hear his own remarks unless pronounced in
a barking roar. Pointing to one of the
guests—Lord Newton—he said: “What does
Novar mean by asking that fellow to a
party? He’s the biggest bore in the House,
and knows nothing about anything but
horses.” The “biggest bore” did not
even smile at Lord Carrington’s indictment
but contented himself with ignoring the old
gentleman for the rest of the afternoon,
even refusing to hear a request for the sugar
when that was stentoriously demanded by
his noble colleague.
The Marquis, interrupting an amusing
titbit of Lord Novar’s, which, of course,
he didn’t hear, said, “There’s a drive on
the South Coast of New South Wales that’s
entirely owing to me. There was just wild
bush in that part when I had it opened up
and so, of course, the drive is called after
me.” I tried to tell him how often I had
driven along that route on the way to
Stanwell Park. Waving me aside, he went
on, “Trouble is, the snakes—the trees meet
overhead, and the snakes drop on people
as they go along. One has to drive like
fury to keep the reptiles from being all
over one.”
Lord Strickland, pictured when he was
Governor of New South Wales during
Holman’s Premiership, sand the Beau-
champs, with whom Mrs. Holman
stayed at Madresfield Court in Wor-
cestershire, make two very pleasant
chapters. Lord Strickland emerges as a
remarkably stately man who, at a ball,-
Would say “Shall we promenade?” and
—not a dancing man —walk decorously
round and round the ballroom with his
partner. He had, however, a disarming
affection for “Charley’s Aunt,” which,
seen at Sydney Royal, kept him doubled
up with laughter.
At Madresfield Court—this was, as she
says, before the break in the married life
of the Beauchamps—Mrs. Holman de-
picts an idyllic setting in which, in addi-
tion to a butler and footmen, 12 lackeys
in red and silver decorated the entrance
hall, and Lady Beauchamp wore her
famous pearl necklace, and Lady
Cowdraj wore diamonds worth £lOO,OOO
and Lady Cadbury, being over 60, took
a cold bath every morning. There was a
moat, there was a view which had been
admired by Queen Elizabeth, and there
was Lord Beauchamp’s collection of
Bulletin cuttings—“ Come and see them ;
they are funny although I did squirm
over them at the time. I have a complete
set of all the jeers and sneers and carica-
tures, in the library.” There was a big
log fire in a fireplace eight feet long, there
was a collection of snuffboxes with minia-
tures of the mistresses of Louis XIV and
Charles II and of Henry VIII’s six wives ,
and, nightly, there was the ceremony of
feeding the robins in the snow. It was,
says Mrs. Holman, the wife of a Labor
Premier from- New South Wales, “a
fantastic dream.”
Unpublished Shaw Neilson.
Much verse is written —always has
been and always will be—but Shaw
Neilson was a poet. It makes a differ-
ence. And even among the unpolished
and unfinished verses, the failures and
fragments of Unpublished Poems of
• Shaw Neilson (Angus and Robertson)
that difference is instantly and every-
where apparent.
On the first page, for instance, there
are joy and arrogance: —
Good fellow of the song,
Be not too dismal; it is you and I
And a $ew others lift the world along.
Everywhere there is the expression of a
genuinely original mind: —
As Love half defeated
The flowers seek the dim;
Oh, the Unseen—I like not
The long talk with him.
Everywhere there are a distinctive and
personal use of words and a distinctive
music: —•
How shall a cool man sing?
He shall not find the heat;
These foresters take up
Gold of the honey-cup,
And chime on, “Yellow sweet!
O yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow
sweet! ”
Nobody could have had a keener ap-
preciation of Shaw Neilson’s poetry than
A- G. Stephens, to whose influence
James Devaney pays a fine tribute in his
preface to Unpublished Poems, yet
Stephens once wrote that he hesitated to
confer even on Neilson and Hugh Mc-
Crae the proud title of poet. He was
questioning not the quality but the
quantity of Neilson’s verse —his output
and his emotional range.
Though one would certainly confer
that title on him now, Unpublished
Poems can add little to the poet’s
stature. Besides fragments, it includes
47 more or less complete poems,
selected, Devaney says, from a total of
200 left in 24 school exercise books. This'
total, the editor continues, is less than
half of what Neilson wrote in his life-
time—“perhaps there was never another
poet who lost so much of his work. He
said that a lot of his notebooks were de-
stroyed by mice at Chinkapook, in the
Mallee, during the phenomenal mice
plague of 1917.”
One may envy the mice of Chinka-
pook ; there must have been a fine taste of
honey and strawberries on their whiskers.
But every poet who ever wrote left a
sackful of fragments with good lines
among them. Devaney is/ not measuring
by world standards whin he submits that
Neilson’s total output “must have been
very great.” It was, in fact, when com-
pared with that of Burns or W. H. Davies
—to restrict the comparison to men with
the necessarily limited output of the
purely lyrical poet —very small.
Neilson’s world* the vision from which
his poems sprang, was too limited for bulk
of output. Among the verses of the
notebooks, says Devaney, “We have the
same favorite themes recurring oyer and
over. Like his own waterbird
he seemed to sing
Always of little children and the Spring
—and of honey and violins, of flowers
and birds and berries, of kisses and girls
and love and Love in the abstract.”
Unpublished Poems shows how frail that
small world was, how perilous, how
easily it could have been weakened by
repetition —even the “silver-hatted mush-
rooms” of one of his most exquisite
lyrics are seen again here—by senti-
mentality in the attempts at the ballad,
by doggerel in the light verses, by de-
generation into the saccharine as in “To
Mother” and in the alarming couplet: —
But still I think the sweetest sweet
Would be a kiss from you.
It would have been kinder to Neilson
not to have published a few of these
poems. But that is not true of the bulk
of the book. Neilson’s previously pub-
lished poems are often fragmentary, in-
conclusive or repetitive, exquisite in
momentary flashes, and there seems no
harm, but rather good, in adding a few
more flashes. If Unpublished Poems does
not increase Neilson’s stature by more
than a millimetre or so, that millimetre is
worth having; for, in a phrase, in a line,
in a stanza or, rarely, as in the tragically
beautiful “Tell Summer That I Died,” in
a complete poem, it is the real thing.


Anthony Horderns’
•w
\
m
i
M
*
£
Price
30
THE HORDURA CARDEN HOSE is a tough,
long-lasting, double-braided cord hose with a
corrugated cover . . . the hose is of excellent
quality and moderate cost, lin., llld. foot,
fin., price, foot 1/21
HOSE REEL . . . what every gardener need*
for holding the hose.
s, f'l l
gt
vs
9
y
>s \ “S
B%*
-v
t
-
vs/j
SPRINKLERS!
“TRI ith
IN ADVERTISING”
2' 5
*
&
5'2
1
4 ii
• Agricultural Dept.
Fourth Floor.
I
IJ>
2
Z
l'4
>5
/
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, G.P.Q., SYDNEY
EVRON Plain Tap Fit-
tings, constructed to last,
precision built. Ea., 2/5
THE NEW GEYSER
NOZZLE with a variety
of spray effects . ; .
coarse or fine, wide or
narrow, straight jet or
shut off if desired. 3/5
“BIG BOY” Hand Water-
ing Nozzle, another
Australian “Pope” Pro-
duct . . . can be
adjusted for wide or
narrow, coarse or fine
spray. Price .... 5/2
OBLONG ROSE SPRAY,
a guaranteed “Pope”
Product, gives a gentle
spray to your rose
blooms. Price .. 4/11
CAP AND LINING for
Screw Tap. Each, 2/2
HOSE CLAMPS, iin.,
price, 2-id.} -fin., 3d.
CLINCHER TAIL for screw-
ing on the sprinkler. Price,
each 1 /4 i
CANBERRA SPRINKLER, 3 arm type,
a very necessary part of the home
gardener’s equipment. Each, 9/6
PRETORIA Sprinkler, 4 arm, gives
extra water . . . enlarges the area
to be watered. Price, each, 12/6
CREENKEEPER Sprinklers with loose
couplings . . . the speed of rotation
can be controlled by varying the
angles of the jets from vertical.
15in., price, 26/—. 30in., price, 36/
HOSE SUPPORT, essential to all
lovers of the garden. . . . Can be
adjusted to support the hose at all
angles. Strongly constructed, 9/6 ea.
//
t'M '
\ yJ
96
/ ,/' /
/
' . /iu
fV
96
•:
(/
r/' 7 • \
( m.
t; f
hr. T
t ttZ
26/


HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
’ PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American , African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
f THIS
DUPLICATOR
I has all the fines! features of high-priced '
imported machines at only a fraction af
their cost. The "National" Rotary DupU*|
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plan%. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SmSSSm i .... i..i SYDNEY AND BRISBANE -
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Buili tnr’rfi, ir. Australia hj
THAT
&
The
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIEH
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is. subject
to accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and
uninterrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of
paramount importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing
this Company your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present
appointee. An interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on
request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen JLoxton - Eric Priestley Fee.
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: 8U5901
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN THORA ENGLAND.—TAKE
NOTICE that RICHARD ALBERT ENGLAND has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4281 of 1947 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Twenty-
seventh day of January One thousand nine hundred
and forty-eight and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from DAWSON & HERFORD, Solici-
tors, 104 Hunter Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALMA DOROTHY FOWLER late of Balmain in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
your husband DAVID FOWLER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4988 of 1947 against you on the
grounds of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 27th
day of January 1948 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from JOSEPH WALTER KENNY,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALEXANDER WILSON late of Goulburn
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that DORIS WILSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2769 of 1946 on. the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divofce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 26th day bf February 1948
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from R. W. FRASER & PARKINSON, Solicitors, 51
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JEAN ELIZABETH ARMSTRONG late of
Katoomba and Melbourne. —TAKE NOTICE that your
husband MAXWELL JAMES ARMSTRONG has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4959* of 1947 against you
on the grounds of desertion for three years and up-
ward without just cause or excuse If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Bth
day of March 1948 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from. ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.''
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO REGINALD FRANCIS BOOKER known as
Francis Reginald Booker late A.M.F. N 99235.—
TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN OLIVE BOOKER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2093 of 1947 on
the grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court Sydney on or before the 30th
day of January 1948 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from F. C. SINCLAIR, Solicitor,
26 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
No. 1469 of 1946.
BETWEEN MONA KIRKMAN Petitioner and GEORGE
WILLIAM KIRKMAN Respondent To GEORGE WIL-
LIAM KIRKMAN late of 55 Earl Street Cremome.—
TAKE NOTICE that this Court will be moved on
Friday the 20th September 1948 before the Registrar
in Divorce in the Prothonotary’s Public Chambers
Supreme Court Sydney for an order that you do
pay to the Petitioner by way of permanent alimony
such sums of money as to the Court may seem meet
A copy of this Notice of Motion and Affidavit in
support thereof may be obtained without charge
from J. MANN & K. H. WILSON, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.—(L.S.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
—Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO BOLTON CHRISTIAN ROBSON of No. 6 Ada
Street Concord in the State of New South Wales but
whose present whereabouts are unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that an action has been commenced against
you in the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane
by Writ of Summons No. 1106 of 1947 by AUDREY
ALICE ROBSON your wife in which she claims
dissolution of her marriage with you and by her
petition filed herein she alleges that on or about
the Twelfth day of September 1942 you wilfully
deserted her without cause or excuse and have since
continuously deserted her without cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and it has been ordered
that service of the said writ and petition on you
be effected by delivering office copies of the said
writ petition and the order by pre-paid A. R. Post
addressed to Mrs. Georgina Robson, 18 Kennedy Road
Austinmer in the State of New South Wales and
by publishing this notice in three consecutive issues
in the Bulletin a newspaper published at Sydney
in the State of New South Wales If you desire to
defend this action you must within forty-four days
from the doing of the last of such acts enter an
appearance at the Registry of the said Court at
Brisbane and in default of your so doing the Plaintiff
may by leave proceed in the action and judgment may
be given against you in your absence DATED the
Twelfth day of December, 1947. — (1.5.) H. It. FITZ-
PATRICK, Acting Second Deputy Registrar.—H.
TREMLETT FRANCIS, Solicitor, 161 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO KATHLEEN PATRICIA SURIDGE formerly of
208 Glenhuntly Road Elstemwick in the State of
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that your husband ALLEN
ALEXANDER WILLIAM SURIDGE of 2 Davis Street
Elstemwick Milkman has instituted proceeding's
against you for divorce on the ground of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria at
Melbourne on or before the 28th day of January
1948 the case may proceed in your absence If you
intend to defend this suit you must file an answer
in the said office on or before the 6th day of Febru-
ary 1948.— KENNETH J. CLEMENTS, 29 Glenhuntly
Road, Elstemwick, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO CONSTANCE MARIE HUDSON formerly of 40
Claude Street Northcote and 85 Bell Street Fitzroy.
—TAKE NOTICE that your husband FRANCIS
HERBERT HUDSON has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of three
years’ desertion Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the 28th day of January 1948
the case may proceed in your absence If you intend
to defend you must also file an answer in the said
office on or before the 6th day of February 1948.
COLIN KEON-COHEN, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor.
TO the next-of-kin of ALAN VERNON CAMERON,
late of Rabaul, New Guinea, electrician, deceased,
believed bom ii\ New Zealand in 1895. Deceased at
some time was employed at Dunedin, Gore and
Thames Valley in New Zealand and also in Sydney
before entering New Guinea in 1931. Please com-
municate with the Curator of Intestate Estates of
the Territory of New Guinea, administrator of the
estate of the abovenamed deceased. ANY PERSON
having information which would be of value in
tracing the next-of-kin of tha deceased is requested
to advise the undersigned.
H. W. HARDY,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Port Moresby, Papua-New Guinea,
12th December, 1947.
ANGUS DONALD McINNES, formerly of Lyal and
Cohuna, Victoria. —Please communicate with F. S.
NEWELL &■ MARSH, Solicitors, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
So They Tethered Him
By LES ROBINSON
IHAD heard that a goat was for sale
and, as I intended buying one, was
looking for the owner. Intent upon
the quest, I was peeping, as I went
down a lane, into all the backyards
through chinks between the palings of
the fences. Hearing sounds behind a
tall iron fence, I knocked on a gate in it.
“Come in! ” said someone whose voice
was high-pitched and wheezy.
When, after opening the gate, I entered
the yard, the sight that met my gaze
astounded me. An old man, wrinkled
and wizened, with scarcely any flesh on
his bones, clad only in a bathing costume
and boots, had a rope round his waist,
the other end of which was attached to a
metal ring on a wire clothes-line. v
He was very small, almost a dwarf
in fact, and his face, arms, neck, shoulders
and legs were as brown as a penny. He
had a shock of grey hair and a tangle
of whiskers in which birds must have
longed to nest. He reminded me of
pictures of Sinbad I had seen in story-
books, and perhaps Caliban, if ancient,
might have looked like him.
“Rather strange, eh? Isn’t that what
you are thinking?” he wheezed, chuckling.
“Well, yes. It is,” I said.
“Just another example of man’s in-
humanity to man you no doubt surmise,”
he added. “But no. It’s nothing of the
kind really. I suppose I had better ex-
plain though. I seem always to be doing
that.
ii H y° u ever > a f ter coming out of
1 1 a theatre late at night, lost your
sense of direction for a minute or two
and found yourself walking west instead
of east, say, or north instead of south?”
he asked.
“Yes,” I said.
“Disconcerting, isn’t it?”
“Very,” I agreed.
“Well,” he went on, “that’s how it
started with me, but after a while it
grew worse. Instead of proceeding in
the wrong direction, without of course
knowing it, for a few minutes only I’d
keep on and on for hours. After trudging
steadily all night long—l was living at
Narrabeen then—-I found myself, when
the sun rose one morning, on the out-
skirts of Parramatta. It was only by
sheer luck at last that I ever got home
at all. I have always had to do a great
deal of walking but was now wearing out
more boots than ever. For a good while,
being sensitive about it, I tried, by mak-
ing all sorts of excuses, to keep my
relatives and friends from finding out that
I had lost my sense of direction altogether,
but you can't keep afflictions like that to
yourself for ever. They thought at first
that my eyesight was defective and keet
on urging me to consult an oculist. 1
knew though. that there was nothing at
all the matter with my eyes.
. “Well,” he went on. “I have always
had a horror of being a nuisance, especi-
ally to strangers. Something had to be
done so we decided”
“We?” I murmured.
“Yes,” he said. “I was then, as now,
living with relatives, you see, and we
were, being clannish, all in it together
you might say. We’ve always been like
that. Well, after talking the matter over
calmly and sensibly, every member of the
family making suggestions, some of which
were unpractical or would have involved
us in expense, I said I thought that the
best thing to do really would be to
attach me to the clothes-line. At first
they demurred, pointing out that it might
be considered inhuman.
“ ‘ If I insist on being attached to the
clothes-line how can any „of you be
accused of inhumanity?’ I "asked, and,
finally, being stubborn, I had my own
way.
“I have, as you can see, freedom of
movement that is only limited by the
length of the line. Some day we may
get a longer one, then of course, my
freedom will be greater. If I were languid
or lethargic,” he continued, “such a course
of action would have been unnecessary.
All I’d have needed would have been a
couch in an outhouse or shed. But, un-
fortunately, I happen to be restless,
energetic, I’m an outdoor man and have
a roving disposition as well. I belong,
in the physical meaning of the term, to
the diligentsia, and they, there is no
doubt whatever, especially when ceaseless,
are often a nuisance to the restful and
to the mentally active in particular.
“DEING attached to the clothes-line
doesn’t prevent me from doing all
the repair-jobs about the place. I can
mend most things—not as well as a trades-
man of course—in a rough sort of way
I mean. The neighbors complain because
I’m busy in the moonlight as well as in
the daytime, all night long sometimes.
Look, Ma — book-ends !"
But as long as I remain in the backyard
here I have nothing to worry about really.
It I wasn’t tied up though I’d be unable
to resist the inclination to go a-roving and
what a nuisance I’d be to everybody
then! I’d try to find my way back and
I’d trudge in circles ever-increasing in
circumference for goodness knows how
long.
“Perhaps it wouldn’t be so bad, so
irksome, if you could meet a fellow-
sufferer, someone for preference who had
lost his sense of direction earlier in life
than you, and, because more inured to
the disability, was more philosophic about
it? You would then be able to swop
experiences and even, maybe, to spend
nights together trudging in imagination
homeward, but, of course, on the wrong
track. And, besides, you’d be talking for
once to someone who’d believe you. If
I tell anyone whose sense of direction is
unimpaired about those experiences I’m
suspected as a rule of being either a
visionary or a prevaricator. But the dis-
ability in its more acute manifestations
must be rather rare, because you never
seem to come across anybody else who is
afflicted by it. I never have at all events.”
“I suppose they detach you from the
clothes-line or you detach yourself from
it sometimes,” I said.
“Oh, yes,” he replied. “But only while
there is somebody about to see that the
gate is locked and the key put away where
I won’t find it.”
He was unable to tell me where the
goat was to be found, so, as the after-
noon was waning, I left him in order to
continue the search. Before doing so
though, I noticed, and it was proof no
doubt of his restlessness, that he had
worn a track, by shuffling to and fro,
through the grass underneath the clothes-
line.
I had not gone far when I met a
postman to whom I mentioned the
tethered ancient and his explanation.
“THAT’S old Garritty,” he said with
A a smile. “Everybody round here
knows him. He’s a bit eccentric ; differ-
ent in his ways from you and me per-
haps ; a crank I suppose you could say,
but there’s not a bit of harm in him.
He has what you might call a bee in the
bonnet or a complex, that’s all. He thinks
he’s a nuisance to everybody. But he’s
only a nuisance to himself really by
worrying about it all the time and apolo-
gising. He’s good-natured and docile. He
always does straight away what anyone
wants him to do, as well as the things
nobody cares whether he does or not,
even in the middle of the night. In fact
it’s hard to stop him. And he’d give you
his last cigarette-paper.
“All you have to do if you should
happen to meet him wandering about like
a lost sheep is to take him to the lane
at the back of his place, tell him to walk
straight along it until he comes to the
third yard from the end—the one with
the iron fence —and to knock on it, No
one minds doing that,
“They feed him well and look after
him most of the time; and he’s worth it,
mind you. He comes in handy on wash-
ing-days and he’s always mending things.
“Did you notice the thickness of the
clothes-line, by the way, and how firmly
the ends of it are fastened to those hard-
wood posts?”
“No,” I said, “I don’t think I did.”
“Well, there’s one of Garritty’s
peculiarities he probably omitted to men-
tion,” the postman continued, smiling
more than ever. “He’s as nimble as a
monkey, you know, and whenever a wash-
ing-day is windy he gets a strange kind
of pleasure or elation out of swinging
on the line with the wet clothes flapping
all round him.”
“Was he a sailor in his young days?”
I asked.
“No, he was a laundryman,” the post-
man replied.
Pondering over the idiosyncrasies and
vagaries of my fellow-men and the
vicissitudes they are called upon so often
to endure, but making sure as well that
the tram and the ferry were going in the
right direction, I arrived home early for
once in a while.


VA*I
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic . Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder. .
t
Force HOT Air out of your Roof
/fryt/tAJ jur
IN
m i
m
m
m
SSB
m
am
mm
1
■ ■' .J
t&matrep ave/
Lattice-typo ventilators made
of interlaced steel strips let
into the eaves enable a flow
of fresh, cool air to circulate
freely under your roof. Adding
little to the building costs of
a new roof, they can also be
readily installed in any present
roof by your local builder or
plumber. Ask your local con-
tractor for a quotation.
NOTE the fr’ee flow of
fresh, cool air circulating
under your roof.
ht (Australia) Ply. Ltd.
df
LI 78A-6062,
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
SPARE PARTS FOR TILLEY LAMPS AND RADIATORS
WE REALISE FULLY THE IMPORTANCE TO
THE USER OF TILLEY PRODUCTIONS OF
ADEQUATE SUPPLIES OF SPARE PARTS.
EQUALLY, WE ARE AWARE OF THE NECESSITY
FOR MAINTAINING OUR HIGH STANDARD
OF WORKMANSHIP.
GENUINE SPARES FOR TILLEY LAMPS AND
RADIATORS ARE MADE ONLY AT HENDON
AND CRICKLEWOOD, ENGLAND.
DO NOT BE PERSUADED THAT SUBSTITUTES
ARE “JUST AS GOOD.’ ,
BRENT WORKS, NEW BRENT WORKS,
HENDON, N.W.4 tRICKLEWOOD, N.W.2.
THE TILLEY LAMP CO. LTD., of ENGLAND
London Offices and Showroom :
33 SACKVILLE
STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l.
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
Ltd., 123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy copy of comedy Dickens by Garra-
way, reviewed in the Melbourne “Imperial
about 50 years ag0. —4178.
Typiste, own machine, neat and accurate,
wants typing work. —4179.
Newspaper clippings and art exhibition
catalogues relating to the art of Norman
Lindsay.—4lBo.
Young returned soldier, Sydney, and wife,
seek small cottage, furnished or unfurnished,
within 20 miles of city.—4lBl.
To buy sets of old Bulletin postcards.—
4182.
To sell 15 vols. Burton’s Arabian Nights (a
privately printed edition by Burton Club, Eng.).
Suitable for collector. —4183.
Information Sought.
(1) In what electorates, State and Federal,
is the Coalcliff (N.S.W.) coalmine? (2) When
did the Federal Government take it over ana
when did it relinquish control ? (3) Approxi-
mate output during Government control ? (4)
Amount of subsidy paid?
(1) Coalcliff colliery is in the State electorate
of Bulli and the Federal electorate of Werriwa.
(2) The colliery, which is owned by Coalcliff
Colliery Pty., Ltd., was rendered idle by in-
dustrial trouble in February, 1944. From March
9, 1944, the Commonwealth Coal Commissioner
assumed control of the mine under the Coal
Production(War-tirne) Act and the mine was
subsequently de-controlled as from March 31,
1947. (3) 402,384 tons of coal. (4) £121,777.
* * * *
(1) How many 1939-45 ex-servicemen hav<e
been settled on estates following ballots under
the War Service Land Settlement Scheme in
N.S.W. in (a) Eastern and Central Divisions,
(b) Western Division, (c) Irrigation Area and
(d) under Promotion schemes? (2) How many
are in occupation under Permissive Occu-
pancies? (3) Number of applicants admitted
to the ballots for (a) Eubindal, (b) Euloma,
(c) Barbigal and (d) Waterloo estates?
(1) (a) 133, (b) 63, (c) 14, and (d) 48.
(2) 65. Figures for (1) and (2) do not include
ex-servicemen who have been assisted in various
ways in the acquisition of and settlement on
the land by other departments or authorities
than the Department of Lands. (3) (a) 1078,
(b) 1006, (c) 1025, and (d) 600.
*** * -
How much money can I have in a bank
without affecting my old-age pension ? I own
the house in which I live.
The Social Services Consolidation Act pro-
vides that the annual rate at which an age
or invalid pension, is determined shall be re-
duced by £1 for every complete £lO of that
portion of the value of the property of die
claimant or pensioner which exceeds £5O but
does not exceed £4OO, and by £2 for every
complete £lO of the remainder (if any) of the
value of that property, apart from the home
in which they permanently reside, up to £650
each, when no- pension shall be payable. You
could have £59, and own the home in which
you permanently reside, irrespective of value,
without affecting the rate of pension payable.
Brief Answers.
W.R.: Very careful Calculations were made
a few years ago, using all historical evidence
available, knowledge of the geographical
conditions and also the density of population
of aborigines in comparatively untouched areas,
and it was found that in 1788 there were about
300,000 aborigines in Australia, perhaps up to
350,000 L. 8.: (1) No. Two witnesses are
essential. (2) Depends on value of estate, other
surviving relatives and other matters... .G.H.:
On the somewhat sketchy information you fur-
nish it would appear that the National Security
Regulations might prevent you carrying your
scheme into operation. Suggest you see a
solicitor L. 0.: (1) Retailers may not apply
authorised price increases on old stock pur-
chased at lower prices. (2) Domestic electrical
appliances are subject to price control. (3)
Authorised maximum retail list prices are
approved to manufacturers, who are expected
to notify such prices to resellers. The usual
profit margin authorised to retailers is 33| p.c.
on cost-into-store W.N.F.: The serial was
“Thirty Pieces of Silver” by Montague Grover.
It began publication in The Bulletin on July
30, 1930 M. 8.: Nothing is known in Syd-
ney educational circles regarding the Trust
A.A.: Young foxes are suckled at the teats
of the mother, after the manner of all furred
animals or mammals 8.C.: For full details
of reply given by Senator Ashley in answer to
a question concerning Parliamentary and Minis-
terial visits abroad during the period 1942-46
see Federal “Hansard” for August 2, 1946
C.R.C.: There is no treatment for cholera in
fowls. Correct management and strict attention
to cleanliness play a large part in control. In
suspected outbreaks of this disease, affected
birds should be strictly isolated if not destroyed
immediately, and the premises occupied by the
birds should be cleansed, disinfected and then
left for six months at least before being used
again.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and volttarily
liability is u _ returned unless
“„ 6 r“ «»sL.r w. M< i* •**— '•
tfte Editor. „
AB.L.: Congratulations! You’re the first
uoet to write a sonnet to a concrete-mixer.
P L M.A.: “I composed this poem while
"' A' o fripnd ” You would have done
EFpapr h A.^. ; t GefSme«hing h .ow t ,lB
S%fi? &o'w e w b f’ "S
a ‘S'cMT fS C «lin n fof The
?rogs .R K.W.: Your talkiug cockatoo »
too shocking for a respectable paper. • •- S.S.M..
We’re not particularly interested in being
the general features of a drought in common-
niace nrose ...T.S.G.: Fourteen pages of
dreary platitudes about a mother’s love for
her wayward daughter....K.M.. A mmld
attempt ..W.J.: Must go . back... .F.K.L». .
You climbed a hill and saw the sun rise, then
climbed down and had a feed of sausages and
eggs Well, we11!....A.A.: Slung together
85 carelessly.. Far too long,and
not at all in our style A.S.N.. Yours is
about the hundredth yarn on the same subject
this vear: and a poor yarn at that... .u-.r.0..
The aroma of a billygoat as the basis of a
humorous yarn makes no appeal to us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
AE L : We weren’t conquered by the lass
who' thought William the Conqueror had seven
wives E.H.: The size is all right; its the
drawing that’s wrong L.A.: The land sales-
man will not earn you a cheque.... D.n..
Young lady, you have a long way to go before
you’ll see print,.. .C.F.: Scratches just
scratches, and the jests wouldn’t even please a
radio comedian... ,V.H.: At the moment
you’re in deep water and struggling hard....
8.G.: Make a New Year resolution not to
submit any more until you’ve mastered the
game... .A.W.S.: What the chap on crutches
said to the bloke on stilts didn’t raise a smile.
AB P : The piebald mare didn t even face
the'barrier E.R.M.; Conversation between
Mr. Chifley and a kiwi fell on deaf ears....
N.T.: Yours is not the first pavement artist to
draw from the nude in a public thoroughfare.
R.H.B.: Drop that niggling style and strive
for something bolder... .H.C.: You can draw
neither a wardrobe nor a wardrobe drinker ,
you can’t draw ever! a bottle of rum... .V.M.
Thanks for the seasonal greetings, but not tor
the amateurish drawing G.P.H.: It’s a worn-
out subject E.McD.: Why have all your
characters got faces like maps of Australia.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A VERY DIFFERENT PEACE.
Commenting on signs that “the free
world is offering resistance to the new
conqueror,” N. Y. “Times” asked prior
to the last act of the Foreign Ministers’
“peacemaking” farce:
Can we hope that this mounting opposition
to Russian expansion will persuade the Kremlin
to liquidate a policy that is raising the spectre
of new conflicts, from which nobody can profit,
and Russia least of all?
The expected “No” given to that ques-
tion by Molotov in London will hasten
the process, already well advanced, to-
wards a peace settlement very different
from anything imagined while the war
was on or promised when hopes still ran
high at Potsdam. The now probable
settlement, with a Germany and Japan
sufficiently strong to be self-supporting
and also important contributors to world
economic recovery, is the logical out-
come of the Soviet expansion policy,
which, with Molotov as its most active
instrument, has been pursued by the
Kremlin, lately most brazenly, for the
past 15 or so years.
Steps in that Kremlin policy (which re-
placed Stalin’s own, or his professed,
policy of “socialism in one country”) were
briefly set out in the N. Y. “Times”
comment:
The Soviet policy frankly embarked on con-
quest and expansion in emulation of, and
open co-operation with, Hitler, with Molotov
as the Russian Ribbentrop. It led to the
Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, which partitioned
Eastern Europe and gave the signal for the
Second World War. It prompted the conquest
and annexation of half of Poland and the
Baltic States, and the attack on Finland. It
suffered its first fiasco only when Molotov over-
reached himself and demanded more territories
than Hitler would give, which was the imme-
diate cause for Hitler’s invasion and the devas-
tation of Russia herself.
From that fiasco Russia —thanks very
largely to U.S.-Britain —emerged tri-
umphant, though battered, and for a
while U.S. policy continued to be based
on the naive hope that “the experience
of the war would modify Russian pur-
poses” and that “the common struggle
against Nazi Germany would cement a
partnership in the peace to follow.” In
that hope the U.S., right through the 15
years since the Soviet expansion policy
was decided on, “has sought co-operation
with Russia,” irrespective of the Soviet
economic or political system, “and based
its war and peace policy on achieving
such co-operation, at the cost of many
sacrifices and fearful risks”:
But bitter experience has taught us, as it
has taught the rest of the world, that Soviet
words, and even signed agreements, are value-
less unless accompanied by appropriate deeds.
It is the deeds that count, and thus far Soviet
Russia’s deeds have been the opposite of her
words and pledges.
Anticipating the L-ondon breakdown,
“World Report” noted as probable that
now “the peace treaties, insofar as they
can be written by the U.S. and Britain,
will reflect more concern with the pos-
sible future actions of a former ally than
With the possible resurgence of former
enemies.” In coldly fixing the blame on
Molotov for the London washout, Mar-
shall said that, since there could be no
unified Germany for the present, “We
must do the best we can in the area
where our influence can be felt,” mean-
ing, of course, the Western German
zones.
It makes a wild contrast to the war-
time dream and the original intentions,
under which Germany and Japan were
to be reduced to a condition in which
they could never again be able to threaten
the peace of the world, the “five Great
Powers” continuing in control so long as
was necessary to attain that end, mean-
while maintaining and developing their
own solidarity in support of world
security through U.N.0., to which, after
due probation, Germany and Japan would
be admitted.
All that having been proved a vain
hope—thei U.N.O. part of it a sad delu-
sion—what is now in the shaping will
be a comparatively makeshift arrange-
ment, liable at any time to be violently
broken, and very far from any remodel-
ling of the world on ideal lines; rather,
a continuing of opposing forces, with the
old “balance of power” as important a
factor as ever. “The problem of the
peace settlements is no longer merely to
assure a weak Germany and Japan, in-
capable of aggression. It also must be
considered in relation to a possible future
struggle between the Western and Soviet
worlds.”
Cabled reports that “contrary to fre-
quent allegations, there have been no
(British) discussions with the American
or French Ministers on establishing a
political authority in Western Germany”
give a misleading impression of what has,
in fact, been done. The U.S. and Britain
had already unified the economies of
their zones ahead of the London con-
ference, and had announced plans for
greatly increased German production and
for other steps enforced by the Soviet
peace-obstruction tactics.
The future Germany has thus been
wholly shaped by Soviet policy; the
future Japan has been shaped partly by
that and partly by the failure of “the
enormous effort of the United States to
develop a strong, united and democratic
China that would replace Japan as the
dominant Power in the Far East.”
According to “World Report”:
The prevailing view is that the United States
cannot afford to sit back and wait for China
to become strong, unified and democratic. The
conclusion from this is that for a long time
the U.S. will have to look .to Japan to provide
in the Far East those elements of stability and
security considered vitally important by the
Western Powers.
On the question of “How real is the
danger of a resurgent Germany and
Japan, and how would the degree of
development permitted these former
enemies affect the present strife and con-
tention?” “World Report” points out
that Germany was more nearly destroyed
in the war than any other great nation
of modern times: “Even if the Great
Powers should repeat the errors made
after World War I, U.S. observers believe
it would take Germany several decades
to recover her pre-war strength. On this
basis, restoring a united Germany to
economic and political solvency would
not necessarily make the Reich a direct
hazard to world security.” This assumes
that “economic and political develop-
ments in Germany would remain under
Allied inspection and control until the
country had established a position as a
peace-loving nation.”
Japan’s prospects of becoming a poten-
tial aggressor seem to American officials
even more remote than Germany’s. Re-
duced to its small and industrially de-
pendent home islands, with only token
military forces, Japan at all times would
presumably be under the power of the
United States as the nation able to con-
trol the surrounding seas. For this
reason, if no other, the return of in-
dustrial prosperity to Japan does not in
itself appear as a real threat of aggression.
With the alternative —a weak and sup-
pressed Germany and Japan—it is held
there would be the danger of serious un-
rest, which, on the one hand, would make
considerable difficulties for the enforcing
Powers, and, on the other, would “offer
Russia favorable conditions for political
infiltration and development.” Hence, on
these various grounds, the intention now
of “building up a relatively strong and
stable Germany and Japan under ade-
quate safeguards”:
Obviously, a Germany relatively strong, stable
and friendly to the U.S. would tend to restore
Western Europe, orient it toward the West,
and, in a broad strategic sense, furnish a sub-
stantial buffer State against further Russian
advance in Europe.
“World Report” comments on this
planning that the American strategists
responsible for it “admit there is an ele-
ment of danger in any plan involving a
strong Germany and Japan.” The
danger is not expected to come from a
revival of Nazism in Germany or mili-
tarism in Japan. What is feared is that,
sometime in the future, Germany or
Japan might throw in its lot with an
aggressive Russia.
As regards Japan, this is considered
almost impossible unless the U.S. abdi-
cates control of the Pacific. As regards
Germany, the danger of a combination
with Russia is viewed as a serious possi-
bility that must be recognised—a calcu-
lated risk. The preventive, as official
Washington sees it, is vigilance in main-
taining safeguards, and preparedness
against the result of a Russo-German
alliance, which could be the spark that
would set off World War 111.
FABLED RED ARMY.
Having fought both with and against
the Russians, former Estonian Army
officer Arnold Purre fires some solid de-
bunking salvoes in the U.S. monthly
“Reserve Officer.”
The Red Army as “invincible” Purre
describes as “one of the* greatest illusions
of our time.” The “undisguised aim” of
the Soviet leaders “is world conquest,”
and they are making every effort to catch
up with and outdistance the democracies,
but for the present their military force is
“poorly armed, poorly equipped, poorly
trained and has a low morale.”
Purre ridicules as “very far from the
truth” assertions that “ten well-equipped
mechanised armies kept by the Russians
in Europe could invade the entire Con-
tinent in 48 hours.” He insists that
Russia beat back the Germans only be-
cause the Germans were improperly
equipped for the intense cold of the
northern winter, and because the Western
Powers were sending supplies to Russia
at the same time that they were wrecking
Germany by air attack.
Describing the German forces after
1943 as “half-starved, half-frozen, in-
credibly short of equipment and low in
morale,” the writer adds: “It needs no
great prowess to defeat such an army
when one is in one’s own country, eats
good American food and fights with up-
to-date American weapons.” He blames
much of the Red Army’s ineffectiveness
on the Soviet political system getting
mixed up with the military training : —•
The Soviet doctrine claims that no knowledge
or ability is of any value if its owner is not
trained politically at the same time; i.e., if
he is not a loyal and convinced Communist.
Hence, in training the army, the main emphasis
is laid on the shaping of the soldier’s mentality
in the desired political direction. Military
training takes second place and is carried on
unmethodically and mechanically. This is largely
due to the low educational standard of the
officers.
The writer further asserts that, despite
rigid efforts to keep them “loyal,” Red
Army soldiers deserted in large numbers.
He declares, however, that so much
Soviet effort is being given to fighting
strength that Russia’s “military power in-
creases, surely and inevitably, with every
year that passes,” and the moment the
Soviet leaders “feel assured of victory”
they will take the plunge.
GENEVA CUTS.
As worked out by “World Report,”
the Geneva agreements on tariffs repre-
sent a tidy sort of victory for the British
negotiators and —at least on Empire
preferences—a U.S. defeat. “A chief
aim of the U.S. was to cut these prefer-
ences, or, better yet, get rid of them.”
The cuts aimed at were “staved off” ;
“Only 5 per cent, of the preferences are
to be removed entirely; 25 per cent, are
reduced; 70 per cent, remain as before.”
A great help towards Britain’s recovery,
British exports are to “benefit materially”
from concessions: “One-eighth of normal
British exports are to enjoy reduced duties
in other countries” ; “these favored ex-
ports are to be pushed hard.” Britain’s
export drive should be able to “cash in”
on the following concessions:
From British countries on machinery, textiles,
carpets, china, glassware.
From France on fish, whisky, chemicals, tyres,
woollens, tractors.
From Benelux [Belgium-Netiterlands-Luxem-
bourg] on certain foodstuffs, photographs,
cotton yarns, woollens, whisky.
From Brazil on chemicals, textile machinery,
insecticides.
From China on some heavy machinery, steel
plate, medicines, tyres.
From the U.S. on whisky, woollens, linen,
textile machinery, china.
“Britain’s fight for these reductions at
Geneva,” “World Report” comments,
“shows where the main effort will be
made in rebuilding the export trade.”
The publication thinks British competi-
tion with U.S. producers in world markets
“is sure to stiffen in such lines as chemi-
cals, machinery and tractors.” On the
other hand, it sees Britain’s tariff cuts as
meaning very little, since imports are
closely controlled.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
By Request, No Chrysanthemums. —An odd
sidelight on how the mighty have fallen (for
the time being, at any rate) is that henceforth
the Jap Emperor’s “familiar chrysanthemum
crest will not appear on Japanese postage
stamps.” Gen. MacArthur put it in his official
report: “The Japanese Government regarded
the change in the Emperor’s status as making
the use of the crest inappropriate.”
* * * *
Irish Elections. — A by-election defeat in
Tipperary in October led Mr. De Valera to
announce general elections for early in the
New Year, whereupon the “Irish Times” com-
mented: “The political tide, if it has not yet
turned, most assuredly is turning.” For what
any such views in the crystal-ball may be
worth, a N. Y. “Times” correspondent reports:
“Observers assert that the democratic pendulum
seems to be swinging away from Mr. De
Valera’s party and some are saying that it is
on the way out.”
* * * *
U.S. and Italy’s Treaty. —Made before it was
appreciated that throwing the Bear anything,
from spaghetti to sauerkraut, only whetted his
appetite, the peace treaty for Italy now has no
backers in America, even among those who
helped make it. “So many people have been
disturbed by the concessions to Russia” in that
treaty, declares the “Atlantic Monthly,” “that
the United States will seize any opportunity to
moderate the terms.”
* * * *
British. —Colm Brogan, in his b'ook Our New
Masters, considers the resounding Britishness
of “some of the most prominent and aggressive
backbenchers” of the Commons: “Think of
Mr. Konni Zilliacus. The very name recalls
the root and heart of Lancashire —Gold Flake
packets in the Irwell, and Old Trafford soaking
in the rain. Who thinks of Cornwall without
thinking of Silverman, and there are two of
them? Messer and Levy, Orbach and Shurmer
remind us of Kent and Canterbury, or, at least,
of the Forest of Dean. If the name of Weitz-
man does not bring to mind the Midlands,
what does it bring to mind? With Tiffany we
remember the men who drained the fens, and
Swingler is all that the Wordsworth country
means to man and boy. Janner is jannock,
or very near it, and Emanuel Shinwell is
Scotland’s own.” The writer allows there are
others whose names are perhaps less racy of
the soil, though quite as authentic, “but these
are enough to show that the Labor members
are all as British as they are made, or, at
least, as British as you can make them.”.
H* $ H* Hi
Hard Work, High Morale. —Reporting from
Italy, Scripps-Howard special correspondent
Henry J. Taylor states that “most Italians
doubt that Italy is ripe for Communism; the
memory of a regimented Italy under Mussolini
is too fresh in their minds.” Taylor adds:
"The average Italian has turned his back on
the idea that any political group or economic
magic wooing his vote is going to do as well
for him while he stands idle as he can do for
himself by hard Work. That’s proving to
be a tough nut for the Communist propaganda
to crack. For as the Italian works harder
his condition gets better. His morale is high;
higher now than I have seen it in the past
20 years. There’s hope, and great progress,
here.”
* * * *
Jap Population Rises. —Stating that a recovery
plan for Japan similar to the Marshall plan
for Europe is being prepared by MacArthur’s
economic advisers, “World Report” gives Jap
population figures as 65,000,000 in 1930,
78,000,000 now, and an expected 85,000,000
by 1953. The aim being “to restore Japanese
living standards by 1954 to the 1930-34 level,”
“production must be tripled, imports must be
boosted 500 per cent., exports must be multi-
plied 12 times.” By 1954 “it is hoped Japan
will be able to stand alone.”
* * * *
As Others See Us. —Mr. Calwell’s “million”
U.S. veterans don’t seem to be materialising,
but one of the couple of dozen who came out,
an ex-Marine sarge, gave a N. Y. “Times
Magazine” correspondent his views on some
Australian attractions; not the sort that might
be expected of a sarge. He’d been disgusted,
he said, when he got home and “found Ameri-
can women crowding into bars alongside of
men and acting up and talking loud.” On the
other hand: “Women in Australia don’t smoke
much. If women drink, they have a separate
place for them. Women don’t crowd in and
shout. And Sunday down there is a day for
church. The bars and shows are not open.
Home means more in Australia.” It mightn’t
mean anything special that the Marines were
mostly stationed round about Melbourne.
* * * *
The Mufti Giraffe. —In the words of-the
zoo visitor, “There’s no such animal” as the
“Grand Mufti”; it’s merely l a journalistic
coinage. As explained by John Van Ess in
Meet the Arab: “In Islam there is no hierarchy
of priesthood of any kind. There is also in
the system no such thing as a Grand Mufti.
A mufti, indeed, is only a cut above a notary
public. The real person of importance is the
religious sheikh, who, on account of learning
or piety, has made a place for himself in
public esteem, or the qadhi, who is the judge
of canon law, that which has to do with
marriage, divorce and inheritance. When the
qadhi is stumped as to just what the law says,
he calls upon the mufti for a decree or fetwa
on the subject. As for Hajji Ameen’s being
a seyyid, a direct descendant of the Prophet,
well, so is my school janitor. There are thou-
sands of seyyids. The mufti’s real power
derived from the fact that he had control of
the funds of the awqaf, the pious foundations,
which, plus his natural cunning and gift for
intrigue, gave him enormous advantage as head
of the Arab Higher Committee.”
* * * #
Where Stalin Stops. —Seeing the Politburo as
closely following Peter the Great’s diplomacy,
which required Russian possession of three
sea outlets—the Baltic, the Sea of Japan and
the Mediterranean —“Atlantic Monthly” com-
ments *that only the Mediterranean is still
barred, and there, while U.S. policy holds, is
where Stalin stops: “There are three entries for
Russia into the Mediterranean. The one at
the Straits is under no present threat; the
second, at the zEgean, is under American
scrutiny; and the third, at the Adriatic, is
bastioned by the Free State of Trieste, under
an international (including American) police. It-
is the U.S. State Department’s intention to
‘contain’ the Kremlin at this line.”
* * * v
Surfeit of World Crimes. —In a letter to
London “Times,” Lord Vansittart said he had
been watching in vain “to see whether one
of the meanest acts ever perpetrated by a pro-
fessedly independent Government would excite
any moral indignation here or elsewhere.” The
case he quoted was: “Mr. Mikolajczyk and
some of his colleagues recently fled from
Poland after enduring a persecution of which
every step was a violation of every promise
given to us by the Polish Government and its
Russian masters. Three of Mr. Mikolajczyk’s
companions got clear of the Polish Secret Police
and reached Czechoslovakia. There they were
arrested by the Czech authorities and handed
back to their persecutors.” Dubbing it further
“this shameful transaction,” Lord Vansittart
questioned: “Is the explanation of such silence
that the totalitarian cruelties piled upon the
world during the past 14 years have begun
to exhaust its powers of condemnation?”
* * * *
Mombasa. —A Chicago “Tribune” London
correspondent reports that J. Bull’s African
supply base, with main installations at
Mombasa, “will be a giant even by standards
of recent years.” “It is fairly central, especially
if Russia should be the next foe. Even ex-
cepting Russia, it is handy for any place in
the Middle East, and it is on the right end
of the supply line to the Far East. But most
important is that it is secure. There is no
danger of internal trouble. It is far enough
away from any threat, meaning Russia, to be
fairly safe from air attacks. It can’t be reached
by land. However, it is wide open to the sea,
which is wonderful as long as Britain and the
United States have most of the ships. In
peace-time it can be reached easily through the
Mediterranean, but should war again close that
inland sea, Mombasa would still be open to
ships from the south and-east.” The harbor
at Mombasa “is large and weather-tight, and
the British navy’s war-time supplemental base
of Kilindini is on one shore. Harbor facilities,
however, will be multiplied. Plans call for
multiple docks for quick loading and unloading.
From these, superhighways and railroads will/
lead to the distribution areas.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3542
Wednesday, December 31, 1947
TAKING OVER.
"It’s all yours, son, and you’re welcome to it!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealanp : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
‘ G.P.0.), Wellington.
HISTORY AND REALITIES.
The New Year gives a suitable vantage
point from which to look back through
history at the results of the system estab-
lished in this country by men who, to
Moscow and its agents, were “lackeys of
capitalism,” and to contrast the past with
the present.
A hundred and sixty years ago Aus-
tralia was the perfect setting for a
socialist experiment. It was without a
house, a white inhabitant, a cultivated
acre, a cow or even a bottle of beer. Its
few indigenes wandered the wild woods
catching possums and goannas and burn-
ing-out bees’ nests. They had never heard
of a regulation. The only “light on the
hill” they ever beheld was from the
smoke fires with which they deterred
the omnipresent mosquito. ,
Transport, that necessity of civilised
communities, was limited to Shanks’s
pony, no other being needed. The
possum was disposed of fresh from the
tree* instead of being kept in cold storage
for a month as he would have been a
century and a half later, and the oyster
dredged from a bank was devoured
on it. Every headland in Sydney
Harbor is feet deep in shells which the
dusky aboriginals of Australia left on
their breakfast tables.
At the beginning of 1788 the continent
acquired a small white population. In the
first 30 years of settlement it acquired a
native white race, a sense of property and
a method of government which would
have delighted the Chifleys and the Cal-
wells. Four-fifths of its population,
having left their country for their coun-
try’s good, were as docile as any Govern-
ment could have wished. The Provost-
Marshal or sheriff, acting as a military
chief constable, held office as director of
liberty of speech and was the only legal
chairman of public meetings until the
Australian-born W. C. Wentworth made
a successful gesture of defiance. Gov-
ernment by regulation was supreme.
Government price-fixing and Govern-
ment acquisition of all the means of
subsistence were the law. No industry
could be carried on without Government
permission. Nothing which the Govern-
ment considered a community necessity
could be sold except with the Govern-
ment’s consent. Without that consent no
visitor could come to the country or
leave it. There was no commercial pro-
gress, but there was a huge blackmarket.
The continent was, in fact, very much
like New Guinea under Mr. Ward until
a demand for wool, the one material
which it was believed capable of producing
in large quantities—for British factories
—lqd to the introduction of freedom of
enterprise and with it political freedom,
including freedom of speech and the press.
The results of this change were evident
within a few years. Gold had been dis-
covered in the eighteen-twenties, but the
discovery was kept secret because it
might have interfered with the plans of
the Government and its' closest friends.
Now the wide fields of auriferous country
were thrown open, and with exploration
in search of more bonanzas came the in-
creasing pastoral expansion, increasing
settlement and increasing population
which have brought the Commonwealth
to its present stage of development.
All progress has been achieved under
what is termed the “capitalist system.”
The country remained for half the period
of its growth almost as remote as the
moon from the heart of civilisation in
Europe. Europe, at the beginning, was
eight months away. Even after World
War I a voyage to Europe took five to
six weeks.
In 160 years the population has be-
come equal to that of England and
Wales at the time of Phillip’s landing in
Botany Bay. It is in the mass native-born,
is ruled by the native-born, and is yet of
United Kingdom origin almost to a man.
There is another feature which is
almost invariably forgotten by the seekers
after, the “light on the hill.” With .rela-
tively few exceptions the nation i$ com-
posed of descendants of poor men:
English agricultural laborers, Irish pea-
sants and Scottish cottars, with a leaven
of impoverished younger sons of the
upper middle class. There was never
more than a tiny sprinkling from the
castle and the hall.
Thus Australia has provided oppor-
tunities for millions who otherwise would
have languished at bread-level. In the
process it has contributed greatly—by the
provision of raw materials not elsewhere
obtainable and by the swelling of Britain’s
“invisible imports”— to the improvement
of British standards of living and to the
development of that British strength which
has been the heart of colonisation and of the
spread of civilisation throughout the world,
and—by the service of its own strong
sons —to victory for the forces of free-
dom and justice in two recent great wars.
Unfortunately, under incapable leader-
ship without moral principle, Australia
is being induced to live for the moment.
The booze and betting interests prosper.
Unbridled trade-unionism holds industries
and communities to ransom and threatens
the very existence of Parliamentary gov-
ernment. The idle and shiftless are led to
believe that they and their families will be
cared for out of the taxes from the cradle
to the grave. In a variety of ways, all
crazy, thrift is discouraged.
And the people are discouraged from
looking backward. Thus many are lacking
in the sense of proportion and the respect
for precedent upon which all sound civili-'
sations are constructed. The processes by.
which Australia “develops” under the
present regimes are very much like those
of the autocratic Governors of the early
days. The main difference is that the in-
spiration, good and bad, then came from
Britain, instead of, as now, from the
Mad Continent. But it is unfashionable
to make comparisons, and it is dangerous
thinking to ponder on how much m<?re
the world owes to individual ambition and
freedom of effort than to the regimented
organising of theorists and demagogues.
With a rich and colorful past behind
us, Australian history is ill-taught in
schools, nor is there a Chair of Aus-
tralian History fin any of its universities.
In fact, there is no real check on the kind
of teacher who distorts the insignificant
incident of Eureka into a national event,
paints the rise of the wool industry as
an orgy of rapacity and chicanery
and corrupts the student mind with
the belief that there was no light in the
world before Lenin and no salvation be-
fore “Labor.” To that kind of teacher
the real Australia, with its great sweep
of adventure, its peaceful conquests over
Nature in harsh aspects, and its achieve-
ments in two \#ars, fought on a scale un-
known to any land with so few people
and so new a tradition, counts for less
than nothing.
So, with the story of our growth
neglected or perverted, Australians, par-
ticularly young Australians, tend to lose
national consciousness and unity of pur-
pose. They are led toward a conception
in which U.N.O. and its gabblers are re-
garded as saviors of the world and in
which class comes before country. Envy,
hate and greed are preached as duties.
Successful gamblers are held up as ex-
amples to youth. Along with the
materialist conception of history goes a
materialist conception of life, and there
has been a sad decline in manners. And
a spirit of ferocity has come to pervade
the politics of the ruling party. It is all
ominous for the future. Ominous also is
the division of the nation into persons
employed by “authorities,” which pay no
taxes, and by free enterprise whose free-
dom, already invaded, has become pre-
carious. Unless present tendencies are
arrested this division will be equal in
numbers before many years are out. As
things are, nearly one-fourth of the per-
sons in receipt of salaries and wages
draw them from public departments and
offices.
There are other unfavorable features
of the existing situation. Our economy
depends far too much on two or three
land industries, and on those industries
the heavy hands of taxgatherers, “con-
trollers” and merchants of artificial short-
ages—strike promoters, go-slow artists
and the rest —have fallen and still fall.
There are far too many people, a large
proportion of the adults unproductively
employed, in the coastal cities. And the
White Australia policy is far from having
been preserved for all time by the defeat
of Japan. It is certain to be assailed by
new threats from abroad, and the Com-
munists, egged on by Moscow, are work-
ing for its destruction at home.
But there are good signs among the
bad. One is the nation-wide support
given to the Food-for-Britain movement
—that reversion to the real old Aus-
tralian spirit of “kindness in another’s
tiouble”—in the teeth of sullen official
hostility. Another is the vigorous and
healthy opposition, also nation-wide,
aroused by the threat of a banking
monopoly, now part of the stock-in-trade
of every rotten dog of a Communist dic-
tator who surges up in Europe. A third is
the flat repudiation of the Communist
conspiracy by organisations of returned
servicemen, two of which refuse to have
Communists among their members. And
the Victorian election, as well as reduc-
ing the One Big Bank party in that State
to a remnant, provided heartening evi-
dence that from the men who fought for
Australia, the best of the breed, the future
rulers of the country will come.
Back to 1848.
“The failure of the Big Four meeting is
serious but not irreparable,” said Dr.
Evatt to a U.N. Association audience in
Sydney. He added that he “hoped the
present failure would lead to peace based
on democratic principles.”
So Prince Metternich just 100 years ago
clung to hope in the efficacy of the Con-
cert of Europe to keep the map of the
Continent drawn as the post-war Powers
of the Napoleonic age had drawn it.
Metternich spoke as Dr. Evatt is speak-
ing, against the reality of dynamic
political forces at work under their noses.
The Concert of Europe had not then, and
U.N.O. does not possess now, the power
to forbid those forces.
Demonstrably, if the three Atlantic
Powers are organising to go an agreed
way of their own without Russia, U.N.0.,
as hitherto constituted, is for any prac-
tical purpose as dead as the Big Four
Council or the Holy Alliance. It was a
Big Five which was to assure the peace
of all the world—till China dropped out
through her own internal schism. It was
a Big Three (France excluded) which
agreed at Potsdam on the rules to be
observed in the restoration of Europe.
But two years have proved that there is
no more affinity between the democracies
and the Soviet than there was between the
free world of pre-war days and Hitler.
For the next four years U.N.O. can
be, for the furtherance of peace and
security, no more than a debating society.
For constructive work in Western Europe
the Marshall Plan has taken its place.
The essence of the Marshall Plan is that
the United States, Britain and France
shall collaborate to assure, by their own
efforts and by their influence on smaller
democracies, that nt least half of Europe
(including half qf Germany) shall be
restored to health in working energy,
economic independence and international
influence.
If the Marshall Plan should fail,
U.N.O. cannot survive. If the Marshall
Plan succeeds, that will be in the teeth
of the opposition and obstruction —the
hostility in all but arms and perhaps
even in arms —of Russia. General Mar-
shall said the other day in so many words
that the United States and Russia are
even now at economic war in Europe.
The agencies of Russian action are
Already established and have received
their marching orders. That has just been
seen in the preliminary anti-Marshall-
Plan skirmish in France, where Com-
munist-fomented strikes very nearly
started a civil war.
And the new year will be the centenary
of Karl Marx’s “Manifesto,” issued in
1848 to speed the threatened revolution
over Europe.
“There was an agreeable spontaneity
about the Revolution of 1848,” one of
the sprightliest of modern English his-
torians has written, “which it shares with
the best earthquakes.” And when The
upheaval which, without the violence of
1789, overthrew a throne and set up a
Second Republic had subsided,
on December 10, 1848, Louis Napoleon
was elected by a majority of four millions
in a poll of seven millions, and the strange
figure whom the world addressed indiffer-
ently as Prince, Alt esse, Monsieur, Mon-
seigneur and Citoyen was President.
Three years later he was the Emperor
Napoleon 111.
No less than in 1848 France today,
as the Four-year Marshall Plan opens, is
an uncertain quantity. The Marshall
Plan has been accepted as much more
essential than U.N.O. to Western
Europe’s recovery today. It is 1 the short-
term modus vivendi without which any
long-term European order is indiscern-
ible. And its prime postulate is that
French and German economic health
must be restored. He is a bold man who
would prophesy that France will bear
equably the strain of seeing the strength
of those people across the Rhine restored,
not only along with her own but as 1 part
and parcel of her future welfare.
And is there not some attention to be
paid to the warnings of History, delivered
in the voice of the late Philip Guedalla,
on the man whom France finally threw
up a century ago—the man who through
every vicissitude of his earlier life had
always believed unwaveringly that he
was destined to revive the Empire, and
whose “tragedy” it was that “on attain-
ing his purpose he had lost it”? Will
not these words, written of the Prince-
President interregnum, ring as strangely
applicable in modern France?
It had long been the tradition of French
revolutions that the brisk, decisive days of
insurrection [read, for today, “liberation”]
should be followed by a grey period of
constitutional debate in which a National
Assembly travelled slowly up the long road
back to first principles, formulated inter-
minably the Rights of Man, and drafted
with statesmanlike deliberation a constitu-
tion which should be (unlike its three or
four predecessors) indisputably final.
The Prince-President was disinclined for
these solemn exercises... .The industrious
Rouher retired for 24 hours with the
Constitution of 1800 and a quantity of
paper; he emerged with a constitution
which by a simple process became the law
of Fiance. With a queer ingenuity it com-
bined an omnipotent electorate with a
paralytic legislature
Today in France there is a Premier
whose success against the first Com-
munist assault has temporarily at least
surprised some who supposed that he was
merely an, office-warmer for General de
Gaulle. But he has yet to prove that he
can rally the French people to accept the
severity of the sacrifices he is demanding
for the national salvation. M. Schuman
represents the last effort of the Right-of-
Centre parties to govprn after-the failure
of the all-party administration and of the
Socialist centre party to command
cohesion within its own ranks. Now the
trades-union confederation, hitherto a
formidable challenge to any Government
in France which excluded the Commu-
nists, has also split along the Communist
line of cleavage.
The historical parallel with 1848 is
curiously consistent. Italy in that year
was “a seething cauldron” ; in the throes
of unrest which was to produce, among
other events, the arrival of Garibaldi and
his Ten Thousand. Italy in 1948 has yet
to defeat her internal Communist enemies
as France has done ; but she is more vul-
nerable than France, and what the Aus-
trians represented to Italian patriots in
1848 the Yugoslavs represent to today’s
struggling Italian democracy. The victory
which the Schuman Government in
France has won over the Moscovite in-
fluence in the French strikes could be
undone if the Communists were to gain
the upper hand, in Italy; and it would
scarcely require a new Cavour to put
ideas into the head of a new French
Saviour of Europe inspired by Bona-
partist tradition.
The Marshall Plan may or may not
have made provision against such eventu-
alities. It may have devised ways and
means also to make the recovery of
Western Germany seem in due course
natural and beneficial to a France re-
gaining stability and prosperity on a
parallel course. These results, to repeat,
may be possible. But if the Plan is as
good as that, it will be the most wonder-
ful creation in the records of inter-
national statesmanship. And its authors
should hasten to enlarge it for universal
application. Then the U.N.O. debating
society can take a long holiday.
Mad as a March Hare.
Almost simultaneously the “Labor”
Governments in Britain and Australia
discovered a grand new way of wasting
the people’s money and hastening the
dollar crisis. This was to go baldheaded
into the aerial-transport business, already
catered for in both countries by efficient
private concerns which paid substantial
taxes and were fully capable of provid-
ing adequate finance and equipment as
traffic expanded.
The Australian calamity tried to wipe
out all the privately-owned services. Re-
fused this monopoly by a High Court
judgment, it set up Trans-Australia Air-
lines, commandeering for headquarters
the 11-storey Manchester Unity building
in Melbourne, heedless of the Oddfellows’
protest that it was not only needed for
an extensive business but was a memorial
to many thousands of members who
fought in the two World Wars. And,
with the dollar position already bad and
growing worse, it contracted to spend
millions of dollars on the purchase of
American machines, besides sending “25
engineers to the U.S.A. to study the
maintenance of Convairs.”
For T.-A.A. the “Government” appro-
priated £3,000,000 in 1946 and £1,500,000
in 1947. In 1947 it appropriated another
£1,500,000 for the purchase of Qantas
Empire Airways—throughout its history,
from modest beginnings, an able example
of individual taxpaying enterprise.
“Trans-Australia Airlines! ” said T. W.
White, M.H.R., an airman of the 1914
vintage. “You mean ‘Tax All Australia’, ”
he said to Mr. Drakeford, the Minister,
who was quite a good engine-driver in
other days. The gibe was justified when
Mr. Drakeford was baited into publishing
a sort of T.-A.A. balance-sheet. It
showed a loss of £505,000 for ten months,
dollar expenditure unstated.
A little later London “Labor,” which
deals in larger figures, came in with its
first financial report on “nationalised”
airlines. On British European Airways it
lost £2,097,600 in eight months, having
spent “more on administration (£559,600)
than on flights (£400,900).” The charac-
teristic “Labor” deficit “exceeded £2B per
passenger.” And the “nationalised”
British Airways Corporation, a
huge consumer of dollars, is “expected
to show, a loss of about £8,000,000.”
When administering huge doses of the
European poison called socialism, which
their peoples instinctively reject, all
Labor-socialist Governments are mad, and
it is a toss-up which is the maddest.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Aesop in Australia.
It so happened that an Owl sat on a
post on the boundary of the years, con-
templating a little group that had come
out of the known country behind them
and now paused, uncertainly trying to
peer beyond the boundary. The Owl,
becoming aware of their purpose, opened
a conversation with them by asking
“What do you hope to find in the next
year?” Whereupon they severally gave
the following replies:
Kangaroo: I suppose I’m an average
bloke who would like to be friendly. Being
that way has cost me a lot, but I’m not
grumbling. All I want is a fair go.
Kookaburra: Being able to laugh is the
only thing that keeps a fellow going. All
I hope is that I can still laugh, though
I’d like better things to laugh at.
Dingo: I know I ain’t popular, but 1
got t’ get a livin’ somehow. Only mugs
work. They reckon I’ve no guts, sneakin’
about in the dark an’ hittin’ only the weak
an’ helpless. If I could win a lottery or
somethin’ I could put on an act, too.
Crow: Aw, you blokes make me tired.
What more does a bloke want than a
drought now and then and plenty of eyes
to pick at? Less water conservation and
no more of this silly idea of storing fodder;
that’s my idea.
Ram: Bah, there’s too many of your
sort about. I’d like a bit of relief
we’re tired of carrying the country on our
backs. We could do with less talk and less
of this planning. We’d like to be left
alone.
Parrot: Friends, if you elect me you can
rely upon the party I represent to give you
all this and more. Our leader’s policy
speech has shown you that we are the only
party you can trust, and remember that
when you vote for me you vote for that
grand and glorious future of the workers
that can only come from the —er —grand
and glorious future. Our leader has stressed
again and again that in our plans for the
new age there will be
The Parrot went on and on till he had
to be chased away. Then there was heard
a noise in a tree over the boundary fence.
It came from a fairly large, blue-grey
bird with a hooked beak, a bunch of
quills behind its ear, an aloof expression
and a somewhat puffed-up general appear-
ance, which began reading from a file:
It is henceforth promulgated by Order
No. 4325/C/78D, sub-section A (A 2 and
subsequent thereto), that, pursuant to the
regulations appertaining thereunto {viz.
Reg. 678 of CD/98 and amendments), no
creature may enter upon the New Year
unless (a) he (she) is the holder of a
Licence issued under the Control of De-
sires Order No. 654 of 2/47, (b) has made
application to the Statutory Body for such
licence or (c) is the holder of temporary
Permit (green paper) under Amended Reg.
16e of 24/345/KL. And furthermore
At this there was so great a movement
by everybody to get out of sight that the
bewhiskered old gent, with the scythe
found, when he opened the gate into the
New Year, only a blue-tongued lizard
anxious to get through—and it had been
asleep most of the time.
Yam pi Comes Back.
While Queensland is pushing ahead with
plans to develop large-scale open-cirt
coalmining at Blair Athol, Yampi Sound,
North Westralia, has become the scene
of another mining venture which may in
course of time prove complementary.
The great Yampi iron-ore deposits are
situated on two islands, Cockatoo and
Koolan, about 85 miles* north of Derby.
Cockatoo Island leases are held
by Australian Iron and Steel, which had
done a certain amount of preparatory
work when in January, 1942, the possi-
bility of invasion forced a withdrawal.
Work was resumed three years ago ; elec-
trically-driven quarrying, crushing and
loading equipment is in the picture, and
regular shipments will soon be leaving
the island for the Eastern States. Three
months ago the Iron Yampi, first of a
fleet of four 12,500-ton ore steamers
was launched at Whyalla.
Not long before the war there was a
storm of protest when it became known
that a Westralian “Labor” Government
was about to grant a lease of Koolan to
Brasserts, an English concern, then with
Japanese customers. The Lyons Gov-
ernment settled the matter by placing an
embargo on export of iron ore. Negotia-
tions with Brasserts have again reached
an advanced stage, but this time there axe
a good many strings to the deal. The
Westralian Government has two objec-
tives: (1) to often up Yampi, and (2) to
establish iron and steel works. The com-
pany must agree not to transfer the lease
without the consent of the Government;
ore is not to be exported outside the
Empire except to the U.S.A.; the com-
pany is not to raise capital outside the
U.K. or the U.S.A. without the Govern-
ment’s consent; it is to supply Westralia’s
iron-ore requirements up to 1,000,000
tons a year.
Westralia’s “iron-ore requirements'’ at
the present moment are virtually nil. but
a company, Western Steel Enterprises, in
which the Westralian Government will
have an interest, is to survey steel-indus-
try possibilities. If its findings are favor-
able a bigger company will be formed
and the go-ahead signal given.
At this stage no suggestion has been
made as to the probable location of
Westralian steelworks. If it is decided
to site the works near the iron deposits
Queensland coal will be 800 miles closer
than Newcastle. If Queensland should go
in for making steel (“Labor” was once
keen on steelworks at Bowen, using iron-
ore from Yampi), the distance from
Yampi to a port convenient to the coal-
fields is virtually the same as from
Whyalla.
Tasmania's Political Turmoil.
In the midst of its biggest political upset
for many years, Tasmania still doesn’t
quite know where it stands, but expecta-
tion in Hobart runs to an August
election, though the five-year Parlia-
ment would still have about three years
to run. The Government has Supply until
the end of July, and the Leg. Council
can act to turn it out only when a Supply
Bill is introduced in that month.
The crisis could come earlier if Dr.
Turnbull crosses the floor in February.
Dr. Turnbull is a young northern Tas-
manian “Labor” member who is in more
of a hurry to go somewhere than
to find out exactly where it is he wants
to go. He expected to get into the
Cabinet in a recent reshuffle ; now, not
unlike occasional politicians on the
mainland, he is disgruntled.
Of the other figures prominently on the
stage for the moment, Mr. Brooker is held
incapable of holding the Parliamentary
“Labor” party together. His election asi
stopgap Premier was a foregone conclu-
sion, but nobody expects him to last,
whatever the outcome of the Cosgrove
affair. Attorney-General Fagan is the
coming “Labor” man. A sound lawyer,
he has been in politics only a year or so,
and thus’ far lacks the capacity to handle
men on the political level. If he learns
this in the next few years he’s almost
bound to take the leadership of the Tas-
manian “Labor” party, because there’s
nobody in sight intellectually his equal.
The other interesting figure is Reginald
Colin Townley, a well-to-do chemist
who was something of a Haroun-al-
Raschid to the Hobart poor in the de-
pression days, a reputation he widened
among hard-luck cases in uniform by
service in the Middle East and in the
tropics. With Mr. Cosgrove in the field,
Mr. Townley topped the Denison poll
as an Independent. Genuinely an Inde-
pendent since he turned in his A.L.P.
ticket, he is forthright in his opinions.
Recently. he challenged the “Govern-
ment” to look into the colossally-rising
consumption per head of beer; and,
arrived at a balance-of-power position,
he may force a review of the grog trade.
Panama Hat in the Ring.
-Scenes of Panamanian pandemonium
took place in the streets of the canal city
when the Legislature of Panama revoked
an agreement permitting the U.S.A. con-
tinued occupation of certain air and
military bases for the defence of the
Panama Capal.
The crowd -sang “Yes, we have no
bananas,” or whatever the Panama
national anthem is, and the idea was
let loose among the mob that Panama had
brought the Star-Spangled Banner low.
One of the Sydney morning papers de-
scribed Washington as “annoyed” and
the other as “shocked.” There was no
mention of its having implored Dr. Evatt,
as Leader of the Small Nations, to rea-
son with the Panamanians, of whom
there are about 650,000, including Indians.
Ever since 1903, when Panama sepa-
rated itself by revolution from Colombia
—that was with a view to picking up
dollars in the days when the Americans
were hesitating between the Pandemonium
and the Nicaraguan route for the canal
the populace has grown longer whiskers
and been inclined to throw its weight
about. The value of registration under
its flag to foreign owners of shipping has
further inflamed the people—black and
white in the proportion of nine to one—
and so has the accidental value of their
vote at U.N.O. at times of lively dead-
heat between Panama’s elders and betters
in the debates on the establishment of
world-brotherhood.
Meanwhile, it is certain that Uncle
Sam will take care of his rights and in-
terests, even if he is driven to abandon
the Panamanians to their bananas and
cut another canal in Nicaragua.
Films First!
Blast from a back-seater:
In England, where private motoring is now
forbidden, though for hundreds of thousands
of people it was their only relief from gloomy
thoughts of the deadly “Labor” rations, taxes,
“controls” and quotas, there is bitter com-
ment on the privileged position in which
moving-picture people have been placed. -No
dollar cuts for them! By all accounts they
are allowed all the doUprs they ask for in the
hope they will earn more in the export market,
particularly the Rank “organisation.” It is a
fallacious hope.
Knowing something of the English country-
side, and having seen two ambitious Rank
pictures, “Caesar and Cleopatra” and “Lon-
don Town,” I can enter into the feelings of the
owner of the compulsorily jacked-up car.
“Caesar and Cleopatra” cost a million sterling
to make, much of it converted into dollars,
and was a dreadful flop. The same fate
was reserved for “England’s greatest technicolor
musical comedy “London Town,’ ” which
must also have burnt up piles of dollars. It
had a dismally shoft run in Sydney.
When they film comedies of manners and
short and simple war themes the English beat
the Americans out of sight; but when —as in
“Caesar and Cleopatra” and “London Town”
—they try to beat them by copying Hollywood
and spending more money they fail horribly.
At least the Rank “organisation” does. On
the production side it lost £1,667,000 in one
year!
CULEBRA CUT DIRECT.
“Our Great Leader got you out of Manus —now get out of Panama!”


IH
1
G 558
CRAVENA
made specicdltf to frtevetrt
sotetfounits
Obtainable
BO’s & 2©*s
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
From N.Z. Chifley sent “seasonal greet-
ings” to the part of the nation that sup-
ports his crowd ; for the larger part, under
threat of bank “nationalisation” such as
exists in Russia and its string of Com-
munist “republics” he had a gibe, wrapped
up in the expectation of “bitter and
vicious criticism from many quarters.”
And there was a complacent reference to
his party’s “splendid record of service in
the critical years of war.” What has
come out about Rabaul, Ambon, Java,
Timor, Sandakan arid Singapore has
dimmed the splendor if it ever existed ;
and the half has not been told.
Lang’s Christmas - present to Chifley
was a verbal time-bomb flung from his
paper, the “Century”:
During the debate on the Banking Bill
Chifley and his followers were unanimous
that restriction of credit caused the de-
pression. How can they reconcile Chifley’s
directive to bank managers to restrict credit
and refuse overdrafts with their statements
in Parliament?
They can’t, nor will they try. Neither
will they try to reconcile their wheat-price
jugglery (ss. 9d. here, 17s. there), nor the
inflation of their salaries with wage-
pegging when they were still affecting to
maintain that part of their programme.
McEwen’s pertinent remarks on the
wheat sale to Britain:
Growers will probably not begrudge 80
million bushels of wheat being sold to the
United Kingdom at Is. 6d. a bushel less
than the current value, but they will clearly
recognise that they had no voice in the sale.
A political party has seized their product
by force of law and sold it at a price de-
termined, as Mr. Pollard blatantly admits,
by politicians for other politicians.
In effect, Australian “Labor’s” deal with
British “Labor” was the same in principle
as its deal with New Zealand “Labor,”
only the price being different.
Pollard’s excuses for the wheat deal
with New Zealand, which is likely to cost
Australian taxpayers £lO or £l2 millions,
must amuse, “Labor” politicians on the
other side of the Tasman. His first effort
was that the price was reduced to ss. 9d.
as a requital for favors extended to his
“Government” by Fraser’s. Pressed by
an opponent to detail the favors, Pollard’s
opposite number admitted that he couldn’t
think of any. Then Pollard blurted out
that “somebody guessed wrong.” His
latest is that if his crowd hadn’t agreed
to sell at ss. 9d. N.Z. “might easily have
been driven to extensive wheat planting
and thus have ceased to have become
one of Australia’s important customers.”
In the light of N.Z. crop figures this im-
provisation is even more idiotic than the
others.
Back from one of the interminable
round of talking parties essential to the
good health and well-being of “Labor”
worthies inside and outside Parliament,
in the latest instance an executive meet-
ing at Paris of the World Federation of
Trade Unions, A.C.T.U. secretary Monk
reported bitter opposition to the Marshall
Plan. A motion to “welcome” the Plan
was finally carried by one vote. Asked
to state the A.C.T.U.’s attitude towards
the Plan Monk replied that it would have
to be discussed. Meanwhile Australian
trade-unionists are not to know whether
their delegate’s vote helped to carry the
motion or whether he joined Russia and
her satellites in opposition. Of course,
they are used to being treated like that
by their “servants.”
In spare moments motorists have been
trying to puzzle out where they stand in
regard to petrol. At various times dur-
ing the last two months they have been
told that they would lose another 10 p.c.;
that they would no longer be able to
draw their tickets from any issuing
office—they would have to stick to the
one whence they drew their December
allotment; and that “gallonage would be
calculated on a two-months basis and
the higher gallonage drawn in the second
month.” Car-owners in N. S. Wales
waited to hear their Premier offer a reduc-
tion in registration fees. Their Premier
was silent.
It was like old times to hear a Sydney
“Labor” alderman deny that his “party”
had “accepted £5OO and more” to re-elect
Lud Mayor Bartley. At the same time,
the gentleman, Carroll, admitted that
Bartley had “promised us the chairman-
ship of the works committee artd
the market committee” (vice-chairman-
ship, Bartley protests) “and support for
another proposition” unspecified.
Whereupon Lang’s paper, which wanted
Dr. Foley for Lud Mayor:
Works and Markets are the very two
committees that Labor should have avoided.
There have been occasions where they were
known as the Bunce Committees. A
veteran Labor alderman, who had functioned
actively on the Markets Committee, com-
plained bitterly that his living had been
taken away from him, when the Council
was abolished [i.e., replaced for a period
by a City Commission],
Charming ; and so in its way was a Bart-
ley comment on “the futility of electing
Independents.” Bartley himself stood as
an Independent, with “Labor” support,
for the Assembly electorate of Woollahra
and missed out.
The British are about to pay another
305.. sterling a hundredweight for Aus-
tralian butter, in all about 2s. 3d. Aus-
tralian a pound. Australian butter-pro-
ducers are getting 2s. a pound from their
“Government.” Before there could be a
shout of joy over the threepence “a dairy
authority” mordantly remarked that it
would be grabbed by the “Govern-
ment.”
In his judgment in the Queensland con-
tempt cases —the president and secretary
of the A.R.U. were fined a total of £45
for publicly attacking the Industrial
Court and instigating a strike—Judge
Matthews remarked that the evidence
showed that after the Court order against
the strike was made a reporter asked the
union secretary what he intended to do
about it. The secretary said the order
would be disobeyed, and his statement
was published. This, said Judge
Matthews, constituted a breach of the
Act, and he warned newspaper and
broadcasting-station owners against re-
peating “such conduct.” As it happened,
it was the reporter’s evidence that proved
the case against the union secretary.
In parts of Queensland a two-hour
“stop-work” meeting was ordered as a
protest against the Industrial Court
prosecution of two union bosses for con-
tempt. One, Ford, president of the
Townsville Labor Council and secretary
of the local wharfies’ union, was upset
about the timing:
Unfortunately, today the harbor is empty,
but had it been full this stoppage would
have taken place just the same. The de-
cision was made before we knew what the .
shipping position would be.
A “stop-work” meeting with no work
to stop, and that in the tropics, with beer
short. Terrible!
The French are about to dismiss
150,000 civil servants, the Government
having been forced to agree to taking
them off the nation’s back before the
Assembly would accept an anti-inflation
bill. Nobody need imagine that the
Canberra “Government” will follow the
example. “More and more civil servants
to implement more and more socialism” is
“Labor’s” slogan for Australia.
Orphans in these parts owe a great deal
to bachelor pastoralists, Samuel Mc-
Caughey above all. Now, out of an
estate valued for probate at £342,531,
Charles Boyd Alexander has bequeathed
sufficient for the erection of two homes
for destitute and orphan boys, and two
for similarly-placed girls, in his beloved
Hunter Valley (N.S.W.). .Each home is
to accommodate 100 children, specifically
for training in the “science of agricul-
ture.” Any boy who stays on after 16
must receive wages, and any who wants it
may get an advance of £lOOO to buy a
farm. Each home will be a community
settlement, properly equipped. Alexander
died at 82. The philanthropy of “ ‘Labor’
Governments” is different. It runs to
lotteries “for hospitals,” though no one
ever buys a lottery ticket with hospitals in
mind, and in N. S. Wales, at least, hos-
pital accommodation, staffing and equip-
ment are relatively inferior to what they
were before the lotteries were introduced.
With mournful evidence in his electo-
rate of what hail damage can do, C. B.
Cutler, the State member for Orange,
who was at Tobruk, has been at the Mc-
Girrs to order their Government insur-
ance office to accept hail insurance. At
present it says it can’t do it. What a
Government insurance office!
Sjahfir, the little Indonesian ex-Premier
who blew into Australia just before
Christmas “looking for sympathy,” hastily
blew out again when he discovered that
he’d been misled by Communist propa-
ganda and the Waterside Workers’
foreign policy into assuming that all
Australia was ready to rush to arms
against the Dutch. At Singapore on his
way home the innocent little man was
obviously in deep confusion:
I don’t believe that Australia has been
championing the Republic’s cause I
found most Australian newspapers un-
favorable towards it, though Australians
generally believe the cause is just.
The visitor made another discovery,
which lie thought “funny”:
It is funny that the trade-unions, the
Labor party and the so-called Liberals
are behind the movement to expel colored
people. The intellectuals are rather un-
happy about it. Apparently the workers
are afraid of the competition from colored
people.
Still, the little man can gain consolation
from the thought that he is only one of
millions who’ve been misled by Moscow
and its myrmidons.
Assured of getting 18 million bushels
of wheat at ss. 9d. from an Australian
“ ‘Labor’ Government” bursting with
vicarious philanthropy, N.Z. “Labor” did
not bother to guarantee its own wheat-
growers a price calculated to stimulate
home production. So the area under
crop, 287,000 acres in 1943-44, decreased
to 144,000 acres in 1946-47 and to 122,000
acres in 1947-48. The return will be “the
smallest on record,” and “the Dominion
will have to buy much more wheat from
overseas.” Has anyone heard Chifley or
Scully or Pollard promise another 18
million bushels at ss. 9d.? Nobody has.
The full extent of the French Com-
munists’ defeat after their three weeks’
effort to produce a general strike as a
forerunner of civil war was seen in the
downfall of the C.G.T., the great trade-
union organisation. It has split from top
to bottom. The Communists were beaten
when the Schuman Ministry resorted to
emergency measures to put down violence
and protect men who wanted to work.
Firmness in authority won the day, as it
did in the United States, and as it hasn’t
done in Australia.
Mild cheering was heard faintly amidst
the Christmas revelry in Playford’s State
when it was announced that the “first 13
blocks for soldier-settlers” had been
gazetted for application. Each block has
been fenced, watered, subdivided and
given a house. A good start for the lucky
13, but how belated the start!
Sydney got one more example of board
control in Christmas week. About the
middle of the month Potato Board in-
spectors went round ordering growers not
to market more than seven bags to the
iacre for fear of a glut—never feared by
housewives. New potatoes straightway
became scarce and dear. Then rain came
and with it the total disappearance of
spuds from shops, though there was a
record crop ; so the inspectors had to go
round again and “free” the market. A
few murphies dribbled into the city in
time to garnish the Christmas duck.
Wage-pegging was one of the casualties
of 1947. “Labor,” while clinging to it
with a spinsterish stubbornness, never pre-
sented the thing faithfully and courage-
ously to those whom it calls “the
workers” ; and the Communists used it to
foment ugly strikes and increase their
own power. They could have been
countered by a sweeping reduction of
taxes and by a resolute campaign against
blackmarkets, but the opportunity was
lost because of “Labor’s” stupidity, pol-
troonery and greed. The bottom fell out
of wage-pegging when “Labor” raised
Parliamentary and Ministerial pay; and
now there is in progress, with competitive
and provocative features, a general infla-
tion of wages. Only blackmarketers and
the booze and betting interests will benefit
when prices have caught up.
From Sydney “Daily Telegraph,”
which has boxed the compass in these
latter years:
Before history is much older it will pro-
vide the world with an object lesson in the
folly of listening to the Left Wing
saboteurs.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” and its
Sunday issue listened to “the Left Wing
saboteurs” for years and years, to the ex-
tent of recommending that 500 Aus-
tralian airmen should be sent to Vladivos-
tock and blithely reporting the plans of
the Communist leaders, Thornton and
others, for “taking over” B.H.P. For
opponents of these manoeuvres the
“Daily” and “Sunday Telegraph” had
in reserve the one all-embracing term
“Fascist.”
Australian businessmen returning from
South Africa, with its weekly shipping
service to and from the U.S.A., con-
template ruefully our own intermittent
shipping service with America and the
still more intermittent service with Dur-
ban (about one ship every three months).
American investors are turning to
South Africa, and so are British migrants.
London Board of Trade reports for the
first nine months of 1947 that, of the emi-
grants from Britain to all parts, 8096 went
to Australia, 19,057 to South Africa. In-
deed, South African papers report a
steady immigration into their country of
Australians fed up with Labor-socialism,
and it is a one-way traffic.
If necessary equipment, including a
steam-drying plant and a reservoir, can
be got in time, S.A.’s Leigh Creek coal-
field is expected to supply practically all
the State’s electric power from 1952 on-
ward. Production aim is 20,000 tons a
week and part of the plan is a power-
station at Port Augusta or Port Pirie.
With 1948 about to dawn, nearly
everything is dearer in Australia than it
was at the beginning of 1947. Thus do
the blessings of “Labor” legislation and
administration accumulate.
An item to the credit of the S.A. Leg.
Council in 1947 was that it blasted the
fourth attempt to get a Government lot-
tery introduced. Attorney-General Rudall
said that members were free to use their
own discretion ; but his Government had
“never departed from the attitude that the
promotion of a lottery is bad,” and he
himself would vote against it. The L.C.
then voted against it by 14 to five —four
Labor members and a so-called Liberal.
“Labor” politicians and union bosses
who have for so long been boosting the
1.L.0. as the fount of legislative reason
(and of trips overseas at the public ex-
pense) have now been faced with a
dilemma. At the Stockholm meeting of
the 1.L.0.’s metal-trades committee “Aus-
tralia” alone opposed a resolution in favor
of time or piece rates of pay. The execu-
tive of the A.C.T.U., which recently re-
jected incentive payments as urged at
Chifley’s Industrial Relations conference,
is to consider early in the new year
whether it will now change its mind. If
it does not, these perpetual 1.L.0. jaunts
by Australian delegates ought to be
finally damned.


: HTHH!
LONG
LIFE
battery
EXIDE BATTERIES STILL KEEP GOING
WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
''/// 1 1
EXIDE BATTERIES
OF AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
X 2.24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
No stranger to human tragedy Air
Commodore H. G. Brackiey,
D. 5.0., D.S.C., Belgian Order de la
Couronne, French Croix de Guerre avec
palms, has been busy supervising the
movement of citizens and urgently needed
officials from the Dominion of India to
Pakistan. In the 23 aircraft, organised
by 8.0.A.C. and flown out from Britain,
he has used double crews to maintain a
shuttle service. As Major Brackiey he
was in charge of the survey England-
Australia flight in the Astorea, a DH 86,
prior to the start of the mail service
from England to Australia. He learnt
to fly in 1915 and commanded one pi
the first heavy-bomber squadrons in
France from 1917 until the end of hos-
tilities. He went to America to attempt
the Atlantic Crossing, but when Alcock
and Brown beat him to the gun he at-
tempted the London-Capetown flight in
1920 and was forced down at Khartoum.
After a short period with Handley Page
as chief pilot he joined Imperial Airways
as air superintendent. During the
dust-up he was Senior A.S.O. ol R.A.F.
Transport Command, as such responsible
for large troop movements and for flights
of the King and Queen, Churchill,
and other V.l.Ps. He was in the Japan-
ese earthquake of 1923, but after Pearl
Harbor he tore off his Order of the Rising
Sun and jumped on it. During this
Pakistan episode one of the Avro Yorks
he was handling moved 117 people in one
trip. Normal capacity of the plane is
24 passengers.
Professor Gordon Roy Cameron, who
performed the autopsy on Sir Bernard
Spilsbury, is a Victorian, son of an
Echuca parson and educated at the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, where he was
Stewart Lecturer in Pathology. Going
to England, he became a pupil of the man
whose death by gas-poisoning has left a
problem similar to the ones he spent his
life in unravelling. Cameron is professor
of Morbid Anatomy at University College
Hospital, London. During the war he
did special research into chemical war-
fare for the Ministry of Munitions. He
is 48 and a bachelor-.
With the end of the year General
Alexander Archer Vandegrift, Chief of
the U.S. Marines, goes into retirement.
When he joined the Marines in 1909 the
the Corps was 10,000 strong ; when he
took command of it four years ago it
numbered 350,000. As a lieutenant
Vandegrift saw service in Haiti, Mexico
and the Banana republics, but those little
scraps which kept the Marines in trim
when the world was nominally at peace
were mere sc'rimmages compared with
what he struck in his first action in the
Pacific War, when on August 7, 1942,
he led the First Marine Division in the
landing on Gaudalcanal. The Marines
established a beachhead on the island,
and in some of the stickiest fighting of
the war held it for five months until re-
lieved by the Army. Many Victorians
have pleasant memories of the survivors
of those Marines. Van received the
Congressional Medal of Honor and the
Navy Cross for his conduct of the cam-
paign, went on to lead the First Marine
Amphibious Corps in the Bougainville
landing, succeeded Holcomb as No. 1
Marine’ and became the first four-star
general in the 172 years history of the
Corps.
Dr. Frederick Colin Courtice, new
director of the Kanematsu Institute of
Pathology in Sydney, hails from Bunda-
berg and was Queensland Rhodes Scholar
for 1933. He studied medicine in Bris-
bane and Sydney and finished his course
in London. In addition to his medical
degrees, Courtice holds a Sydney D.Sc.
and is a Master of Arts and Doctor of
Philosophy of Oxford. He has won a
Beit Fellowship for medical research and
has been a Nuffield Research Student
and lecturer in physiology at New Col-
lege, Oxford. Thirty-six, the new direc-
tor is a nephew of the Minister of Cus-
toms ; his father was a member of the
long-defunct Queensland Leg. Council.
Adrian Ashton, depicted here by
Heth, is a son of artist Will Ashton and
grandson of James, who for half a century
taught Adelaide artists and would-be
artists how to paint—his most distin-
quished pupils were Hans Heysen,- Gus-
tave Barnes and Will Ashton. A genera-
tion ago no home in Adelaide was com-
pletely furnished unless it contained a sea-
scape by or after James Ashton. In the
grandson the artistic streak has turned
ARCHITECTURE.
from pure to applied art; he’s one of the
leading figures in the field of domestic
architecture, as many fine homes around
Sydney testify. Born in Adelaide 41 years
ago, Adrian Ashton was educated at
Prince Alfred College and Colet Court,
London, and commenced practice in
Sydney 17 years ago. During the war he
put in four years as architect with the
Munitions Department. He is on the
Council of R.A.1.A., is secretary of the
Sydney Savage Club and is president of
the newly-formed National Trust of Aus-
tralia, which aims at the “preservation of
beautiful buildings of historic interest and
pVices of natural beauty.”
Another of the framers of the Federal
Constitution died in Perth recently. He
was Andrew Herriott Henning, who went
to Coolgardie from Adelaide in 1894 to
practise as a solicitor, sat for a while in
the W.A. Legislative Council and was a
delegate to the Federal Conventions of
1897 and 1898. In 1907 he gave up the
law and went on the land, acquiring a
property in the Waroona district where
he grew fruit and bred Shropshires. He
retired 20 years ago and had since lived
at Kalamunda. He was 83 at the finish.
Renfrey Burnard Potts is South Aus-
tralian Rhodes Scholar for 1948. His
success tops a career studded with credits
and honors ever since he was dux or
pA C prep, school. Potts has been maths
tutor at Adelaide ’Varsity. At Oxford
he is to specialise in the application of
mathematics to theoretical physics. In
university sport he has been active in
tennis, hockey and running—he won the
mile last year.
“C.S.”: The 1939-45 wars produced
some amazing human experiences, but
one that ranks high in the list is the
Odyssey of Flying-Officer Ray Graetz, a
Beaufort w.a.g. It’s told by Burton
Graham and Frank Smyth in A Nation
Grew Wings, and this summary is a
mere outline:
The Beaufort ditched 20 yards offshore
from But Plantation in May, 1944. The
crew tried to get to sea in the dinghy, but
Mip machine-guns behind But Mission
killed two men (Anderson and McLaren)
and shot off part of Graetz s right ear.
Graetz swum seaward, so did P!t.-o o t.
Maloney, who was never seen again....
Graetz landed west of But jetty and hid.
He was naked. He lay exhausted all
ni CT ht At dawn he found his shirt and
trousers, became nearly delirious, lay in
the scrub all that day and night. Next
day he set out for Tadji, but didn t get
far and returned to the beach, having
decided to travel by night At the
mouth of Manib Creek I almost walked
into a Jap sentry....l sat down near him
and he did not challenge so I crawled oft
the beach ”... .He watched a Nip carrying
party at work, was weak and hungry and
had to rest. Next day he tried to make a
raft of empty drums and coconut logs tied
together with telephone wire, 200 yards of
which he cut from a Jap line. The raft
collapsed. He found a 3in. coastal gun,
filled barrel and breech with sand
“spent the day wandering round But strip
inspecting enemy ’planes”... .He slept
under one ’plane, wrapped in a waterproof
sheet and some parachute silk he’d found.
Then began an incredible journey. He
went boldly into enemy huts and got towels
and shirts, passed enemy patrols and work-
ing parties openly, did a bit of sabotaging
here and there “twenty Nips with packs
did nothing but sit up as I walked past”
.... others yelled at him but resumed work
when he ignored them. His only food
was a sort of wild apple. A Jap making
tea came towards him, calling out. Graetz
waved his hand and kept on. So it went
on, still running into Japs....most of
whom “seemed tired and disinterested.
Some grunted to me as I passed and I
grunted back in reply.”
After nine days he reached Danmap
River, where a M.T.B. came in close,
silenced the enemy fire, sent a raft ashore
and pulled Graetz out. The feat of en-
durance earned him a M.C.
Launcesten’s 52nd Mayor, Cr. N. D.
H. Henty is a great - grand - nephew of
Edward Henty, Victoria’s first white
settler, and a great-grandson of James
Henty, who represented Portland. Tom
Henty, the Launceston Mayor’s great-
great-grandfather, landed in Tassie in
1837 with seven sons. He is buried in the
old Church of England cemetery, Laun-
ceston.
The King’s Medal for rifle-shooting
goes to Lieutenant A. Preston, a Brisbane
man who had been out of the game for
five years. He is a former Scots Guards-
man, and was in the British Army from
1928 to 1939, when he came to Australia.
He joined the A.I.F. at the outbreak of
war, was captured in North Africa and
spent four and a half years in a German
prison camp. In November he decided
to try his luck at the King’s, won the
Queensland elimination shoot and then
went on to win the medal at Puckapunyal.
South Australia is going ahead with
its plan to make Leigh Creek coalfield
the main source of supply to the State
Electricity Trust and part of a re-
organisation scheme. F. D. Peacock
becomes coal-production engineer. He
is an Englishman who served in Burma
with the Royal Engineers. Since the
end of the war he has been in India,
Working mainly on open-cut coalmines.
Peacock will look into the possibility
of exploiting other coal deposits in South
Australia.
Binghi is in for some surprises in 1948,
when three Austral-American scientific
expeditions will converge on the North.
Adelaide’s versatile and inexhaustible
C. P. Mountford will lead the National
Geographical Society’s expedition of four
American scientists and five Australians
to study the natural history and ethnology
of Arnhem Land—the first Australian to
be invited to head an American scientific
expedition. A Commonwealth Literary
Fellowship recently gave him the oppor-
tunity to make “Brown Men and Red
ANTHROPOLOGY.
Sand,” the narrative story of the anthro-
pological expedition he led in 1940. A
quiet, unassuming, sensitive man, he gives
the impression that he could identify him-
self with a witchety grub. Born in 1890,
he was educated at State schools and the
University of Adelaide.
Stepping into Dr. A. E. Floyd’s shoes
as organist and choir director at St. Paul s
Cathedral, Melbourne, is another English-
man, C. A. Campbell Ross, of Kent. Do-
ing the same job at St. Barnabas’, Tun
bridge Well, he was formerly deputy-
organist at Hereford Cathedral, whose
annual three-choir festival has for cen-
turies been the training-ground for Eng-
land’s best choral singers and ecclesiastical
musicians generally. In 1942, he won the
Theodore Stier prize for conducting at
the Royal College of Music, London. He
is married, has one thild and is 35.
“Ek Dum’s” biography:
Brigadier-General Sir William McNicoll, who
died aged 70, last week, was par excellence
a fighting soldier. Headmaster of Geelong
High School when World War I broke out
he was one of the select little band of officers
who reported for duty on the very first day.
He was one of the first battalion commanders
ashore at Anzac, establishing much of the oia
Sixth in the low scrub at the toot of the
Razorback before 7 a.m. on Apnl 25. W
Gordon Bennett, his second m command, ne
fought the battle of the spurs south of Lone Bine
Plateau, taking over command of the oeventn
as well when Pompey Elliott was wounded.
Next day he was again in the middle of tne
epic operations on the 400 Plateau, and it was
the sound of his rallying voice which roused
poor McNaghton, shot through the chest and
throat, to start from his pallet and set off for
the line, revolver in hand, till he fell fainting.
McNicoll narrowly escaped death a little later
when bayoneted by a sentry ot the Deal Batt-
alion, who mistook him for a spy. lhe narrow
escape was succeeded by a narrower one on
May 8, when in the heat of the Knthia battle
he was knocked down by a bullet as he left
Tommies’ Trench, and then severely wounded
250 yards onward. This would have ended the
fighting career of most men, but he was fit
enough the following year to take over the
10th Brigade. June, 1917, saw him lead-
ing it at Messines, where heavy shelling so
knocked the brigade about that Monash re-
lieved it on June 8. Early October, however,
took them into Passchendaele 11, below
Laamkeek, between the 2nd Maoriland Biigade
and the Ninth Brigade, A.I.F. On March 25,
1918, he was the centre of the stirring incident
on the road at Campagne in Flanders, when
he gathered his officers, told them of the
break in the British front and grimly warned
that on the action into which they were
going would depend the fate of the war. This
was before the curtain of the Hebuterne
operations rose. Next day he mustered the
stragglers streaming past Pas for the defence
of Mondicourt, tie was in the Dernancourt
affair of March 28 and led the advance on
Moriancourt, so like his open-ground attack
on Krithia on Anzac in some of its features.
He was in the Proyart fight on Aug. 10, 1918,
and lugged his weary brigade into the operations
of Ciery in the Mont St. Quentin battle three
weeks later. Thus he fought in the thick 9!
the first great A.I.F. battle in,the war and in
the last. But for his ill-luck in being wounded
and his 18 months away from the battle line
he undoubtedly would have risen to a divisional,
and perhaps even higher, command, tor ne
was a man trusted by all and a special favorite
with Monash. , • ... ~
For a time at the end of the war McNicoll
was educational director of the A.I.P.
Irt 1934, after having served a term in
Federal Parliament —he defeated Lazzarini foi
Werriwa in 1931 —he became Administrator ot
New Guinea, a post in which there was little
glory in the years of governmental neglect
before the Japs came. But his record m the
tropics was a good one for which he had little
official thanks.
Retiring after 20 years of it, J. W.
Strachan, hallkeeper at the Victorian State
House —the first when the State Parlia-
ment shifted back from the Exhibition
Building to Spring-street after the Can-
berra hegira of the Federals. Strachan
served under eight Premiers and saw
“crises” galore.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 61, T. S. Parry, Westralian
Surveyor-General. He was nearly 40 years
with the department and carried out survey
work in many parts of 'the State. Early in his
career he was engaged on the survey of the
Transcontinental railway and did all the
observing along the route from Kanowna to
the South Australian border.
In Adelaide, Joseph Anderson, chairman of
directors of Geo. Chapman Pty., Ltd., bacon-
curers, and former Independent member for
Central District No. 1 in.the Legislative Council.
He served the Port Adelaide City Council for
22 years—several terms as Mayor.
At 65, in Melbourne, Father Patrick J.
Gibbons. He was the first Catholic chaplain
to the R.A.N. and served through, the First
World War. He was also first chairman ot
the Catholic Hour broadcasting committee.
In Brisbane, at 68, William Pettigrew Wilson,
S M He was in the Government service in
many northern towns, and after many years as
Clerk of Petty Sessions at Ipswich and foo-
woomba was appointed to thef Brisbane Police
Court Bench in 1941.
In Sydney, at 60, Most Rev. John A. Cole-
man, fourth R.C. Bishop of Armidale. Born
at Waterford, Eire, he was consecrated bishop
in 1929 and succeeded to the Armidale See
in 1932.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: Old Salts, expiating their
sins 50 fathoms deep in the ooze, turned
over with astonished curses when a
British ship passed over them on its way
to Sydney lately, but the dailies and the
public were unaware that a revolution
was among them. The cook of that ship
was a woman ; the cook’s assistant was a
woman ; the chief steward was a woman,
the second steward and all the other-
stewards ; the pantryman was a pantry-
woman. She was a ship carrying 12
passengers and the entire cooking and
stewarding of her was done by women—
-14 of them. The captain had not been
able to engage a male crew in England,
so, at equal rates of pay, he signed-on
women. They kept the ship spotless, I’m
told, and they worked far more willingly
than men. They were allowed to mingle
with the crew—to a point. The ex-
periment was a success ; but when I recall
the oaths we swore and the food we
slapped about and the dishes we washed
and the passengers we slandered and the
decks we scrubbed and the yarns we told
and the liberal education we acquired in
such places as Jamaica during my own
brief but glorious career as second
pantryman, Madam, I weep. Is nothing
sacred?
* * * *
“F.S.”: A recent show of photographic
pictures in Melbourne has raised the old
controversy as to whether photography
is an art. The opener of the exhibition
said it was, and that, moreover, some of
the camera manipulators were greater
artists than some of the most distinguished
painters. This is a tall order. It puts
every flapper who can click a shutter
potentially on the same plane as a Rem-
brandt, and if she only keeps on taking
snaps of the family long enough she
might produce a Bathsheba. But is
photography art? Art is understanding,
and in the case of depictive art it is the
understanding of the relationships between
tone, form and color. Turner, Velas-
quez, Corot and all the great artists
were perplexed all their lifetime about
it, and at the end of his days Corot said
that when he went out into the fields he
wanted to tear up his landscapes. Dr.
Julian Smith had an international repu-
tation, but none of his portraits I have
seen looks anything like Nature. I once
belonged to a camera club in Perth, and
one night Van Raalte, the etcher, initi-
ated us into U-form, U-form with
diagonal and other alleged mysteries of
artistic compositipn. On our next field
day two of our members were with diffi-
culty prevented from chopping down
some gum-trees to make a landscape fit
in with their new ideas about composi-
tion.
4 * * *
“Dym”: The only Santa I saw at Christ-
mas was far from benign. The afternoon
was sultry. Santa sweated freely, whiskers
wilting, top-boots wrinkling. He looked
all-in-, and the glazed smile he wore
seemed to mask a devilish ferocity. The
heat affected the kids, too; they were
fractious and querulous, and t.wo cherubs
of about six were taking furtivfe tweaks
at the St. Nicholas ziff. Suddenly Santa
wheeled, lifted his boot and caught
Cherub No. 1 fairly in the seat, ducked
behind a fixture and in a second was at
the other end of the department, where he
grabbed a toddler, placed her on a rock-
ing-horse and carried on. Cherub No. 1
yelled with fright and pain, No. 2 joined
in and then a chorus from near-by kids.
Maybe Santa by that swift kick changed
the course of destiny for one or more of
those youngsters, but perhaps, also, the
satisfaction of the kick saved him from
going altogether loco and murdering the
lot.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I wouldn’t be surprised
if that shepherd’s crook 150 years old (B.
10/12/’47) is of quite modern manu-
facture compared to some in existence.
Use of the implement goes back many
hundreds of years—as is proved by an
expression still commonly heard.
Although modern thought seems to take
for granted that “By hook or by crook”
is synonymous with “By fair means or
foul,” the expression actually derives
from rights that William the Conqueror
conferred on certain families dwelling in
the New Forest. The rights, which were
hereditary and are still held by descend-
ants of some of the families, gave the
holders the right to gather any dry wood
in the forest that could be picked up or
pulled from the trees “by hook or by
crook.” %I wonder how much longer the
rights will be of use —I heard recently
that the forest is being cleared for home-
sites.
* * * *
“Tackline S.”: New Year three years
back was celebrated in Colombo by R.N.
and Aussies both. Administrative
authority ordered no relaxation of war
“Let’s play ducks and drakes."
precautions lest the Aussies might go
wild. Sixteen bells —eight for the old
year, eight for the new —and the place lit
up with a vengeance.” Every ship con-
tributed to the pandemonium of whistles,
sirens and bells, and the firing of every
known type of pyrotechnic. Rockets,
parachute-flares) and' what have you
made Guy Fawkes night look childish.
Throughout the “exercises” —at least
that’s how log books explained the ex-
penditures—a never-ending song, audible
all over the harbor, blared from a
carrier’s loud hailer. Good for morale,
it was a “Target for Tonight” impossible
for Nip to miss, except for the fact that
he had long been excluded from the area.
* * * *
“Torch”: Practical jokes? Here’s one
from an oxywelder. The new man came
on the job wearing ex-army clobber right
down to the horse-shoe heeled boots.
Just before knock-off sounded the chief
joker asked him to stand on the edge of
a light gauge plate to steady it while it
was being welded. The unsuspecting
victim dutifully stood in position, with
his back to the torch to protect his eyes
from the glare. Ten minutes after the
whistle had gone he was still there, hard
at work with a hammer and cold chisel
chipping liis welded boots away from the
plate.
* . H= * *
“Conda”: Australia’s newest destroyer
has been named Tobruk. A definite
policy is followed in the naming of sea-
fighters ; in the R.N. there are so many
craft of such a diverse nature that a
Standing Ships’ Names Committee has
been formed. As far as possible names
indicate the class of ship and the work
she does —both for psychological and
aesthetic reasons. Colossus would not do
for a minesweeper, nor Ladybird for a
battleship. A nice judgment has always
been exercised in the choice of names —
battleship Tiger, cruiser Black Prince,
destroyer Scourge, submarine Voracious,
and so on. With the advent of war and
vast numbers of newly-built ships, it was
obvious that a great deal of care would
have to be taken if the Fleet was not to
become a complete muddle of unsuitably
named craft. The committee’s policy
was to revive old names wherever possible
and to do its best to keep names more
or less within the classes of ships wherein
they had been borne previously. One of
the greatest difficulties was to avoid dupli-
cating names; I remember once 100 tons
of battleship’s 15in. shells being delivered
to a somewhat bewildered sloop. Another
snag arises when Allied navies have ships
of the same names, particularly Ameri-
can. Naming a cruiser Canberra was a
nice gesture, but it effectively prohibits
another Australian ship bearing that
name. In war-time, as soon as a ship is
lost the keel of another of the same name
is laid. The submarine service has been
an exception to this rule; names of boats
lost are never revived.
* * * *
“Bear Up”: A recently published book
on Australian trains is a lavish produc-
tion and is ideal for children who don’t
know very much about this country’s
railway systems; but it contains one
glaring boner. I refer to a reproduction
of a tombstone reading “In Memory of
James L. Stapleton, Stationmaster, and
John Franks, Linesman. Killed by
natives, Barrow Creek, 23rd February,
1874.” This is described as “Epitaphs of
two Australian Railway Pioneers.”
Barrow Creek is still over a hundred
miles from a railway-line, and the two
men killed were respectively a telegraph
stationmaster and a telegraph linesman!
* * # *
“H.H.” (London): The Cambridge
undergraduate who, nearly 120 years ago,
was sent to arrange a rowing match with
Oxford can hardly have imagined the
extent to which this contest would de-
velop. He would have been proud to
know that the entire British peoples, at
home and overseas, would turn with in-
terest every spring to a 41-mile stretch
of river. He would have rejoiced that
his mission was to become an example of
the cleanest sportsmanship and the great-
est of effort—with no reward but honor.
It is questionable whether he would have
been as thrilled to know that very much
later than sooner the Government of
the day would step in and forbid the race
to take place on a Wednesday, the day
of the most suitable tide and insist, arbi-
1 1 k? rowed on a Saturday,
With the sturdy independence ol a breed
that has achieved so much by private
and individual initiative, he would surely
have refused to Oxford.
“Waarom”: The late unlamented
League of Nations received some aueer
league or Nations received some queer
petitions during its short reign, but a
complaint from the British Cameroons to
.; tt v j xr x- rr . , . „ ..
the United Nations Trusteeship Council
is unique in world committee annals. The
80-vear-old kirn? of the Rekom tribe is
ou year 01a King Ol me rseKom trme is
an ardent Wife - collector, and sends out
scouts to select and bring him a constant
supply of teen-age damsels whom he
espouses by the simple process of remov-
ing his right foot from the living leopard
which constitutes his footstool and plac-
ing it on the child-bride’s prostrate body,
In the meantime a hundred or so of her
600 rivals Jo the royal favor stand round
naked. This is barbaric magnificence with
a vengeance, and Hollywood in its wildest
flights of imagination never thought of
anything so impressive. A Franciscan
missionary is the authority for the
procedure.
**• * *
“Macnell”; The average landsman be-
i- t n , . •, „
heves, quite naturally, that to sail across
the ocean in a yacht is extremely perilous
and foolhardy. Actually it is not. The
J , li?
effort, of course, demands stamina, self-
reliance and sailing ability of a high de-
gree, but from a safety point of view a
yacht faces less risk in mid-ocean than
off the eastern coast of Australia, where
the dangers of collision are considerable,
The apparent miracle of a small, frail
boat floating unharmed in the midst of
furious breaking seas is: due to the
fact that the water in the waves of the
deep sea is not in forward motion. II is
only the form of the wave which moves
forward, and all a wave-form can do to
a boat which is not making headway but
hove-to wearing storm canvas is to lift
her up and lower her down again. If,
however, the craft is moving and she
meets the face of an approaching wave
she will try to sail right through it—with
results as disastrous as if she tried to
sail through a brick wall.
“Diogenes”: They tell the story in our
Western District of the mute comment
of one soldier settled under the Com-
monwealth scheme. His: land was duly
marked out, the department informed
him of it and a prominent notice was
erected to keep off undesirables. The
soldier inspected his block, came back to
the notice, looked hard at it and then
pulled it down. Next morning in its
place was another sign, with the original
wording changed to read: “Persons
found depositing property on this rub-
bish should be prosecuted.”
* * * *
“Hamer”: Whatever may be the cause
of the lean of the trees in Morrison-place,
Melbourne, other trees show vagaries
traceable to distinct conditions. In
Sydney’s Eddy-avenue are trees which re-
main leafed on one side during the winter
while their other side is bare. The
boughs on the leafy sides seem to be
deluded by the electric lights which hang
over or among them, shedding a certain
warmth, and suggesting that all the year
is spring. Opposite my window is a pine-
tree with thick foliage on one side of its
trunk; on the other side the boughs re-
main short, a foot or so from the trunk,
as if* a scythe had cut them away. The
tree grows beside a big block of flats ;
sharp round-the-corner winds seem to
have been responsible for the shorn
appearance.
* * * *
“Eindy”: Wonder what sort of news
“Bilfiooley” (B. 17/12/’47) would expect
from Green’s Plains? Twenty-odd years
ago readers of the Adelaide “Register”
always turned to the country columns to
see what the Green’s Plains correspondent
had to report. And he seldom let ’em
down. If there were floods in the mid-
north, Green’s Plains had them twice as
deep as anyone else ; if mice were devour-
ing the crops in the wheat-belt, at Green’s
Plains they were attacking the farmers.
In time of drought no place was as dry
as Green’s Plains; in bountiful seasons
when crops were over a man’s head the
Green’s Plains crops topped a man on
horseback. The snakes, lizards, dingoes
and rabbits at Green’s Plains were bigger,
more plentiful, more intelligent and more
resourceful than their kin elsewhere.
Where Green’s Plains was situated not
ofte in a hundred of the “Register’s”
readers knew, or cared. It was somewhere
in Peter Allen’s electorate, and Peter had
a gift of humor rare in a politician. He
was, of course, the correspondent; when
he died Green’s Plains died too.
A. Charlton: “B ilhoo 1 e y” (B.
17/12/’47) chooses the name of Charlton
to associate with conventional happen-
ings, Historically its associations are
anything but conventional. There were
Charltons in Northumberland in the thir-
teenth century, and in 1550 it was officially
stated that they were the strongest clan
in “the countreye of North Tynedaill”
and “in all services or charge impressed
uppon that countreye the Charltons, and
such as be under their rule, be rated for
the one-half of that countreye..King
James V of Scotland, writing to Henry
VIII, complained that
the greatest of all attemptes that was done
against our legys during the hele war has
been committed upon our middle Diarchies
be certain zoure legys, of the surnames of
Doddis, Charltonis and Mylbornis, who has
cummin within the groundes of Tevydaill,
reft and spoilzid sundrie gudis, murdyrit
five men, and utheris left in perill of deid.
When James VI succeeded to the throne
of England and it was no longer in the
interests of both countries to stir up
border strife, many leading members of
the Charlton clan who refused to give
pledges of peaceful behavior towards
the Scots were executed. The Laird of
Buccleugh, Sir Walter Scott, made re-
peated inroads into North Tynedale
chiefly against the Charltons, with whom
he had a long-standing feud. After one
successful raid
Bucclughe and the rest of the Scottes
having made some bragges and crackes, as
the country durst scarse take anything of
their own, but the Charltons being the
sufficientest and ablest men uppon the
Borders, did not only take theire own
goodes agayne, but also so hartned and
perswaded theire neyghbors to take theires
and not to be afraide, which hath ever synce
stuck in Bucclughe’s stomach, and this is
the quarell for taking theire own.
Conventional! Methinks there’s a Buc-
cleugh lurking behind “Bilhooley’s” pen-
name.
1948.
Step in, like any other blithe newcomer,
Here’s hoping you may brighter days presage,
Maybe you’ll bring the world a glimpse of
summer,
. A foretaste of Ben Chifley’s Golden Age;
Your predecessor left us rather glummer
Now he fors&kes than when he took the
stage.
The longest lane will turn, though soon or late,
Bound in, young Forty-eight!
We’ve learned, and paid a bitter price for
learning,
That harder than to win a world-wide war
May prove the struggle and the stress
concerning
The complicated aftermath in - store,
The problems facing statecraft for returning
Our earth to something like it was before
Hitler and Mussolini challenged fate.
Hop in, then, Forty-eight!
You come to find a world where bare existence
For millions was never harsher made,
So many mutely to beseech assistance
In stricken Europe—and so few to aid.
Peace in the vineyard, yes, but the grim
distance
That yawns ’tween peace and plenty, one’s
afraid,
A lot of bridging will necessitate.
Step in, young Forty-eight!
In days of old I’ll never be forgetting,
When bells rang out announcing near and far
December’s close, we had a way of setting
The outer door a little bit ajar
To let the old year out as well as letting
The new one in. So, you two, here you are.
Be off, old Forty-seven, swift and straight!
Step in, young Forty-eight!
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Plop”: Though the P.M.G. Depart-
ment thought the phone-box soundproof,
they had not reckoned on orators like the
lady whose ringing tones had been com-
ing out loud and clear for the half-hour
that I’d been waiting. Muttering im-
patiently, another man strode up and
down outside the box; so, sensing the
presence of a twin-soul, I addressed him:
“Some of these darned women are beauts,
eh? You’d think they’d been gagged for
a month. Talk! It’s a wonder that after
five minutes of that speed they don t
exhaust their supply. Listen to her
good for an hour yet.” “They’re painful
all right,” he replied. “I reckon they
ought to be” But that was as far as
he got. The lady in the box hung up,
squeezed out through the door, and
called: “Come, Herbert.” My twin-soul
walked away with her into the night.
* * * *
“Minto”: Pride of our fishing club is
the Chifley pump, a device for sucking
yabbies into the boats for bait. The
Chifley pump was so christened through
a defect which caused it to drag in silt
along with the yabbies. Noticing this,
one of the members exclaimed, “The
Chifley pump! ,Takes the bank and all,”
ifc * Sfc *
“K.”: Sailing for the Antarctic of the
Wyatt Earp with a scientific expedition,
and the landing from another ship of an
observation party on Heard Island, are
the first moves to carry out a scheme that
has been close to the heart of a great
Australian, Hubert Wilkins, for a
quarter of a century. It is all that since
Wilkins first began urging the Common-
wealth Government to organise long-
range weather forecasting from Antarctic
stations of its own. On repeated visits
from America he tried to break down
official inertia, and when last he was
here, a little before the war, he arranged
for the Government to buy the Wyatt
Earp, Lincoln Ellsworth’s ice-ship, in
which Wilkins himself had explored a
great range of the Antarctic Seas. Wilkins
got the Wyatt Earp for Australia at a
ridiculously small price, hoping that pos-
session of it might persuade the Com-
monwealth Government to action. Now,
some 10 years later, it is making a move.
Wilkins has for long acclimatised himself
in the United States, despairing of
awakening any interest in Australia m
intelligent use of Antarctic bases tor
weather-r eportin g.
jj. •* *
“V. Cluse”: Our suburb, justly owning
a reputation for being exclusive and some-
what conservative, manages to withstand
the shocks of modern existence by inter-
posing between itself and disturbing
things a cushion of polite refusal to ack-
nowledge them. To say that it has
learned to mind its own business is not
quite on the mark, but near enough. This
faculty is especially useful in summery
week-ends, when its beaches, parks and
streets carry a motley collection of
trippers. To attempt to correct the ebul-
lience with which these visitors register
happiness and other things would but
make the position worse, so the
resident withdraws till crowds peter out.
it was this attitude which brought the
place safely through the American in-
vasion, helped it to endure infiltration by
wealthy refugees, bookmakers and
peculiar political persons, and survive a
sensational murder trial with equanimity.
But it can be carried too far, as was re-
vealed the other day when a man lay
“Wonder what the attraction is? He's been in there a whole Week now."
dead beneath a tree a few feet off the
main road and nobody became concerned
for 11 days!
* * * *
To the list of occupational
diseases add estate-agent’s palsy, a con-
tinuous and uncontrollable shaking of
the head from side to side, brought on
by constantly replying to the question
“Anything to let?”
* * * *
“Kx-C.G”: Cowangie, the Victorian
hamlet half-buried in the scrub and sand
between the Pink Lakes and the S.A.
border, has become the scene for one of
those stories which, for grim sordidness,
might have come out of early nineteenth-
century England. A farmer stands
charged with the murder of his own
child on the evidence of his wife and a
19-year-old daughter, and it is alleged that
he killed and buried three infants in all.
A pathetic feature was the girl’s state-
ment that at 11 years and again at 13
years she assisted at the births of babies.
I put in a year or so in and around
Cowangie a quarter of a century ago and
my chief memories are of sun-dried men
and women, sand, flies, heat and hard
work and a dreadful, unrelieved
monotony. There was humor there,
of a dry, sardonic kind—r-the only defence
the Australian has in such places against
drink and/or madness. Allan Holt, in
a sociological survey of the region, found
that for half the inhabitants the daily
routine was “work, non-work and sleep.
The distinction between work and non-
work to them appears hardly discernible.
Further —“One cannot be other than
impressed by the isolation which smudges
with a dirty finger almost all the fabric
of the social organisation” in such dis-
tricts. And there you have the social
tragedy of the Victorian scrub.
* * * *
“Zake”: He had been browsing with
no great enthusiasm over the shirts and
ties on the counter. Later he approached
the salesman and said he’d have one the
"Aw, c’mon — it's old Stuff. Let's go to the Stadium!"
same as the one qn the model in the
window. He was poking around among
some plastic belts as the salesman was
wrapping up his purchase, and he 00 e
up quizzically as the salesman said
“That’ll be twenty-nine and six, sir.
“But the shirt / want is only twenty-four
and nine—it’s marked on the s !q°^ a ’ n
protested the customer. The
started unwrapping the sma pai •
“Well, you pointed to the tie and I
thought you meant that,” he said abruptly.
When the world was sane a three-inch
strip of scrap material which could be
punched out at the rate of hundreds an
hour and run up by a girl in a fraction of
a minute usually brought about a fifth
the price of the article it was to adorn •
and even that seemed excessive. I ex-
pect now to live to see as much paid for
shoe-laces: as for shoes.
* * * *
“Uco”: In the naming of their two
new liners —one already launched, the
other about to be laid down —the Orient
Line has honored the memory of two
fine ships that fell victims to U-boats
within a day of each other in October,
1942. Oronsay was attacked about 500
miles W-S.w. of Freetown, Sierra Leone ;
it took four torpedoes to put her under.
Most of the survivors were picked up after
eight days in open boats; others rescued
by a French steamer were put ashore at
Dakar and did not regain their liberty
until after the landings in North Africa.
The day after the Oronsay was sunk
Orcades was hit by two torpedoes a
little over 200 miles from Capetown,
homeward bound with troops and civilian
passengers. Her skipper tried to run back
to the Cape, but another torpedo further
damaged her, so all but a skeleton crew
of 55 were put into the boats. Stagger-
ing along on one engine she made slow
progress for a couple of hours, but the
wolves caught her again, and three more
torpedoes crashed into the stricken ship.
A Polish steamer, Narvik, rescued the
survivors; 48 of the 1000 passengers and
crew were lost. The new Orcades will be
31,000 tons, Oronsay slightly smaller.
* * * *
“Bo”: Crimp, possibly as well-meaning
a fellow as could be found in our suburb,
was given the job of using his wrist-
power on the tape that was to render
waterproof the pudding his wife had put
into the unbleached calico. But ap-
parently he had failed to gather up
properly one of the loops of cloth, with
the result that a little water got in. The
pudding wasn’t exactly ruined, yet it was
not of that symmetrical firmness so desir-
able for the confronting of fussy visitors.
Crimp weathered the consequent domestic
storm, for it was Christmas Eve and no
more ingredients were available to make
another. While his spouse was seeking
consolation from Mrs-. Nextdoor for
being tied for life to such an idiot, Crimp
was swiftly putting into operation his
own scheme for dehydrating the dull.
As his missus walked in the back door
she heard the familiar squeak of the
wringer from the laundry. The sight as
she opened the door rocked her back on
her heels. Her lord had got a couple of
feet of the duff through and he was busy
with a knife scooping the water-logged
sod from off the rubber rollers and out
of the cogs. His idea, of course, was
quite sound in theory, for he had first
prudently loosened the rollers. And, as
he pointed out with perfect logic, a duff
eats just the same if it is four feet long
and two inches thick as one of orthodox
shape. But no! However, I 'can any hus-
band do anything right in the eyes of his
wife?
* * * *
“Piperode”: You wouldn’t expect to
find beggars “doing” the suburbs in these
days of “full employment” and a
generous Commonwealth dole for those
who can’t find it; but they’re about.
Two, presumably man and wife, struck
a house in our street; the daughter of
the house, a soft-hearted young thing,
heard the tale of woe, and with a friend
prepared some sandwiches, then invited
the couple to partake at a table on the
verandah. With a commendable delicacy
the girls put 4s. under the d’oyley. They
then withdrew; but through the open
window came fragments of conversation
something on these lines:
He criticised the “lousy” sandwiches. She
complained that “the woman at the end
house gave me a dress an’ things, all too
big. Why didn’t she gimme some o’ her
own? They’d, ’a’ fitted me.” He said
not to worry as the things would bring
good prices in Dario. She asked him about
another house. He chuckled and said,
“The old goat fell for it an’ coughed up
fifteen bob.” She speculated about
“pinchin’ ” some of the next-door dahlias
and selling them. He “reckoned” they
ought to “make” fifty bob that day....
Then the girls grimly retrieved their
sandwich-tray, clamping a finger firmly
over the 4s. under the d’oyley.
**> * *
“Ceg”: Mutilated Australian notes —
“stinkers” to the bank officials—are re-
turned in large numbers to the “Com-
monwealth” by branch banks. All the
notes “bear the number in two places, and
as a rule one number will justify half
the value of the note being paid. In the
days when the trading banks issued their
own notes a woman wrote in and asked
for £2 10s. in exchange for half a fiver
which she enclosed. She explained she had
left her purse in the pram and her baby
had chewed up half the note. The bank
paid up. Later another woman presented
the missing half. Her explanation
was' that she and another “lady” had had
a fight on the stairs over the note —a little
question of rent was involved—and in
the scuffle each “lady” got half.
* * * *
“Ron J.”: Only resemblance of the old
fly game (B. 3/12/’47) to leapfrog was
the vaulting over a bent back. In leap-
frog the whole team is down except one,
and he is not upright for long. In fly
only one went down, and he stopped there
until the “fly” he had selected got him
out of it. All had to start bounding from
scratch ; “fly” went first, and the extent
of his' leap marked the position for the
lad doing the donkey turn. It was when
any one of the gang reckoned “fly” had
set an impossible task that the challenge
was made: “I’ll see fly do it. If
did it the doubter went down ; if fly
failed he went down himself. Hard to
believe that fly and saddle-me-nag were
banned because of the risk of injury.
Fractures were always more fiequent in
football, yet it survived. More likely
they were displaced by more attractive
pursuits and just faded out like
marbles, kites, tops, busking with
blackened faces on Guy night
and the rascality of New Year’s Eve,
which gloried in swinging a gate from
the cross-bar of every gas-lamp.
* * * *
“Bramley”: Back in militia days an
artillery colonel was boasting of the glory
of his branch of the service to a group
of P. 8.1. officers. In the distance heavy
traffic could be heard approaching, and
the gunner bloke’s eyes sparkled-as he
exclaimed “Ha, the majestic rumble or
the guns.” Was he crestfallen when
around the corner careered the camp
cooker?
* * * *
“Uramao”: The pass at Thermopylae
which the Spartans held against the
Persians is to have another imposing
monument, erected by the Greek Gov-
ernment to the memory of the Kiwis who
fought there against the Germans in
1941. Engaged on the group now in his
Athens studio is the Greek sculptor
Phalereres. The central figure of the
statuary is Leonidas, leader of the Spar-
tan band of 300. Flanking this figure on
each side will be two soldiers a Pakeha
and a Maori. The services of a former
Maoriland brigade commander, Majoi-
General Weir, were enlisted by the Greek
Government to select the site. A former
M.L. medico visiting M.L. after a stay
in Greece said the Greeks had a warm
spot for the Kiwis, and the graves of the
fallen at a beautiful spot overlooking
the /Egean Sea are typical of that regard.
FIVE STUMPS.
“ ‘This game is going to the dogs,’ ” I heaid a
With" whom'l Chanced to sit upon the Hill the
“And what would you suggest, old chap, to
save it from the dumps?”
I asked. He bit his pipe and barked hive
stumps, me lad, five stumps!
“Will people go on paying, do you think, to
watch a show
That may go on four days or five or six—you
never know —
And then b'e left a blasted draw, unless it be
for rain?” ~ ,
He struck a match and grumblingly took up
his tale again.
“With centuries as thick as fleas in any dog
or cat, , ui o
Whichever side has won the toss and ambles
in to bat .... ...
On what they call a shirt-front pitch, it s pretty
safe to bet,
Is good for several hundreds, and may near
a thousand yet.”
“You used to be a bowler, Dad?” I asked.
He mopped his brow.
“Too right,” he said, “but spare me days!
I’d hate to be one now.
However swift you rattle them, or swerve or
twist or spin,
The odds are all against you now —you get it
on the chin!
“The batsman is on top today. He holds and
keeps a place _
Beyond the wildest dreams of Victor Trumper
or of Grace.
A victim and a chopping-block is what the
bowler’s made
For that which Neville Cardus designates a
flashing blade.’ ”
“And now that batsmen call the tune, what
would you recommend,”
I put it to the old ’un, “these one-sided duels
to end?” .
He looked at me as one who knows in cards
he holds the trumps:'
“Five stumps,” he said, “is my recipe;
I’m thinking how incessantly
We bowlers used to shave the three.
Five stumps, me lad, five stumps!”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


What a Trustee should know.
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to administer
an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be conversant
with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation of
property;
—b'e familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so as to
guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all times
until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
By appointing the Permanent Trustee Co. as your executor
and trustee, you are assured of absolute security and safety,
combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet.
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. 11. Way,
Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager:
C. N. P. Whittle
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PT.4A.6
T*° CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO
ft
CINrZANO C/^
Sweet and D
\
rv
Some want them Sweet, and some want
them Dry, but everyone wants Cinzano as
the basis of good cocktails. Cinzano sweet
or dry, the world's best Vermouths!
9/<r/
SHinON
m
CINZANO ft*
v^rmoutH
js»«Hsy
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUIJ.IVAN
mm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating’
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
"national” window face
ENVELOPES
- NATIONAL BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
NATIONAL FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USACES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
NATIONAL WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQIJI’MENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables '
“.TACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
kept., Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
£' £ £
1939.. 118,764 10 p.c. = 75,000 43,764 906,007
To reserve unexpired risks, £10,000;. 916,007
1940.. 127,289 10 p.c. = 75,000 52,289 968,296
To reserve unexpired risks, £61,000.. 1,029,296
1941.. 124,928 10 p.c. = 75,000 49,928 1,079,224
To reserve unexpired risks, £35,000.. 1,094,224
1942.. 142,376 10 p.c. = 75,000 67,376 1,161,600
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000 1,176,600
1943.. 149,637 10 p.c. = 75,000 74,637 1,251,237
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,266,237
1944.. 163,976 10 p.c. = 75,000 88,976 1,355,213
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,370,213
1945„ 192,432 10 p.c. = 75,000 117,432 1,487,645
To reserve unexpired risks, £65,000.. 1,552,645
1946.. 177,063 10 p.c. = 75,000 102,063 1,654,708
To reserve unexpired risks, £105,000.. 1,759,708
1947.. 196,429 10 p.c. = 75,000 121,429 1,881,137
* After providing for unexpired risks.
Bitten by the socialistic bug of Govern-
men t-o wned-and-controlled everything,
some of Labor’s ardent political adven-
turers have recently talked of switching
the nationalisation spotlight from bank-
ing—which has: now moved from the
centre of the political to the centre of
the legal stage—to insurance. Though
legislation for this purpose might, or
might not, be brought down during the
life of the present Parliament, it is well
to consider now whether the country
would be better or worse off if its big
fire, marine and accident offices, some
with world-wide connections like this
Queensland co., were to pas's from pri-
vate to Government ownership.
Emphatically the “Wild Cat” believes
Australia would be worse off. Whatever
the Government case for nationalisation
of insurance might be —at the moment
the question is a political enfant terrible
to some members of the party —it falls
to the ground on the two most crucial
tests', technical and financial. Technically
the Government is bound to act on lines
similar to private enterprise left to itself.
So nothing is to be gained, while much
might be lost, on that plane. On the
important question of service evidence in
other fields shows that, judged by the
more advanced standards of commercial
practice, substitution of Government
monopoly for wholesome private com-
petition is the very negation of healthy
progress and expansion.
Among other things, this Queens-
land co. is a handsome contributor to
Australia’s invisible balance of payments,
because of its large and growing foreign
business, which includes the dollar area.
And, if recent developments' in the Argen-
tine and elsewhere mean anything, it is
reasonable to suppose that the Govern-
ment and private enterprise of any
country would, sooner or later, look
askance at services offered in competi-
tion with itself or its own nationals by a
foreign Government. If the Common-
wealth Government restricted its attention
to plans for underwriting such targets as
prevention of the strangulation of in-
dustry by red-tape, elimination of bottle-
necks, removal of threats to incentive
and the quickening and cheapening of
production it might achieve some worth-
while results with far less risk.
Expansion of operations overseas, ex-
cept India, was responsible for much of
the improvement in this co.’s earnings
last term. Activities have been resumed
on a satisfactory basis in New Guinea
and Malaya, and “satisfactory profits are
accruing” in French Indo-China, and to
a lesser extent in Siam and China, while it
is hoped to open up in Java again during
the current term. In the fire section —
backbone of underwriting activities—
more business was gathered at less cost.
Marine risks showed less profit, because
of pilfering during voyages and on the
wharves —unhealthy evidence of con-
tinued existence of the blackmarket.
Workers’-compensation and motor-vehicle
results were again unsatisfactory, especi-
ally in Australia and Maoriland, notwith-
standing a lift in premium rates (which
are still below pre-war level) on private
cars in Australia.
The year’s growth in net premiums was
£211,155:
Net Loss Expense
Sept. Premiums. Claims. Expenses.f Rate. Rate.
1930.. 774,500 485,040 306,804 62.6 p.c. 39.8 p.c.
1940.. 743.309 382,520 296,822* 51.4 „ 39.9' „
1943.. 900,871 412,403 404,823* 45.7 ~ 44.9 „
1944.. 907,559 412,989 405,500* 45.5 „ 44.6 „
1945.. 932,777 396,495 420,671* 42.5 „ 45.1 „
1946. 1,041,848 463,208 434,471* 44.4 „ 41.7 „
1947. 1,253,003 616,765 446,523 49.2 „ 35.6 „
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
£57,904 in 1946. t Including contributions to staff
funds.
Although claims were £4 16s. p.c. heavier,
exes, were £6 2s. p.c. lighter, thanks to
a cut of £44,069 in taxes, etc. (£170,510).
The net return from investments
(£111,714, up £13,820) was 15.6 p.c. on
capital. The cautious board kept the div.
at 10 p.c., leaving the whole of the under-
writing surplus and £36,714 besides avail-
able to swell investments and returns
therefrom. The £196,429 of profit claimed
was after allowing for unexpired .risks on
the liberal basis of approx. 60 p.c. of
net premium income. On the usually
accepted basis of 40 p.c. reserve for un-
expired risks, the year’s net return from
all sources was £216,968, or 28.9 p.c. on
the £750,000 of paid capital, as against
26.5 p.c. for the previous term.
Both policyholders and shareholders
are well protected:
1946 -Y-: 1947
P.c. P.c.
Gov. securities ..£2,036,832 49.7 £2,111,377 46.6
Municipal sec’ties 51,429 1.2 61,429 1.1
Deposits, cash,
debtors, etc. .. 1,270,330 31.1 1,626,721 35.9
Freeholds . . 739,647 18.0 742,948 16.4
Total assets ..£4,098,238 100.0 £4,532,475 100.0
Liabilities* 1,656,030 1,863,838
Net assets ..£2,442,208 £2,668,637
* Including contingencies.
The growth of £356,391 in deposits, cash,
debtors, etc., is largely on account of ad-
vances on building mortgages, in which
connection a subsidiary, Queensland Co-
operative Permanent Building Society,
has been formed. This might be taken
as a signal to the Treasury that its cheap-
money policy has been forced to the
limits of practical finance.
Buyers offer 88s. for the f.-p. pound
shares without attracting sellers. The
return at 88s. is 2.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for approx.
3.5 p.c. on his money counts on a 15 p.c.
distribution, or other benefits. Net tan-
gible cover is 70s. 2d.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.!
£ £ £ £
1938.. 27,910 10 p.c. = 22,188 5,722 .132,741
Div. equalisation reserve, £27,500 .. 160,241
1939.. 29,732 10 p.c. = 22,188 7,544 167,785
1940.. 32,461 10 „ „ 22,188 10,273 178,058
1941.. 23,303 10 „ „ 22,188 1,115 179,173
1942.. 26,975 10 „ „ 22,188 4,787 183,960
1943.. 28,046 10 „ „ 22,188 5,858 189,818
1944.. 31,480 12J „ „ 27,735 3,745 193,563
1945.. 11,438 10 „ „ 22,188 182,813
1946.. 35,694 10 „ „ 22,188 13,506 196,319
1947.. 20,724 10 „ „ 22,188 194,855-
f Subject to trade-marks, etc., £72,500, and exclud-
ing contingencies, depreciation, etc., now £221,741.
A glance at the table, which is a testi-
mony to the quality of the control, ex-
plains why the market has a high opinion
of the scrip. Ever since the public be-
came interested over a quarter of a cen-
tury ago the co., which is in the difficult
dry-goods field, where it turns out some
well-established proprietary lines, has
paid a steady 10 p.c., sweetened with a
2\ p.c. bonus for the half-dozen fat years
to 1930 and again in 1944, as well as
with new share issues at par, which were
in the nature of bonuses to shareholders
because of the premium at which the
scrip stood in the market. At the current
price of 60s. 6d. (635. 6d. a year ago) the
f.-p. pound shares return 3.3 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover is
375. 7d., excluding the reserve for
depreciation and contingencies, etc.
(£221,741), some of which might be
genuine profit.
Net earnings averaged £28,542 for the
five years to end September, 1944, com-
pared with an average of £27,451 for the
preceding quinquennium. The collapse
of earnings in 1945 was due to failure
of the oats and maize crops in N. S.
Wales and closing down of the oatmeal
and cornflower mills for most of the term.
In the following year grain and cereals
came forward in better volume, and the
mills worked without serious interrup-
tion.
Last term drought affected the
figures again, while the continued in-
crease in wages and shortening of hours
bumped up costs. After allowing £12,000
(down £7500) for taxation there was a
slip of £14,970 in net earnings. The
£20,724 of profit claimed, second-lowest
in the last 24 years, was 9.3 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 16.1, 5.4, 14.1, 12.6, 12.1,
10.5 and 14.6 p.c. back to 1940. That
leaves out of the reckoning a net addi-
tion of £8739 to the reserves for depreci-
ation, etc, now equal to 106 p.c. for the
book value of plant, or 51.8 p.c. book
value premises and plant combined. In-
cluding the lay-by for depreciation, etc.,
capital and reserves combined need turn
in only 3.4 p.c. to show 10 p.c. on capital
alone.
Finances are comfortable:
1940. 1944. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £221,884 £221,884 £221,884 £221,884
Trade debts.. 30,090 44,140 37,825 31,875
Tax reserve.. 16,500 38,500 19,500 12,000
Properties* . . 197,973 210,829 212,492 218,389
Plant, etc.* . . 158,922 176,650 194,455 209,284
Stocks .. 93,660 118,740 136,538 121 117
Debtors .. 45,030 53,369 50,095 61,293
Cash, etc. .. 21,909 93,467 29,052 5,318
* At cost.
During the year £20,816 was added to
fixed assets, and there was a shrinkage
of £14,504 in the more or less liquid sur-
plus, leaving it at £143,853.
The outlook for the current term is
favorable for grain, and, subject to in-
dustrial developments, a better showing
is in prospect.
Kelly and Lewis, Ltd. (Vic.)
Parent’s Figures.
Dividends N
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1939 . . 19,766 8 8 11,580 25,598
1940 . . 5,545 6 5 8,026 23,092
1941 . . 15,638 8 8 12,212 26,543
1942 . . 15,111 8 8 12,212 29,442
1943 . . 15,556 8 8 12,212 32,786
1944 . . 19,654 8 8 12,212 40,228
1945 . , 20,406 8 8 14,558 46,076
1946 . . 19,389 8 8 15,624 49,841
Premiums on share issue, £28,121 j 7 „ nft7
Less underwriting expenses, £4,955 j /d ’ UV7
1947 . . 20,990 8 8 15,741 78,256
* After deducting intangible assets (now £10,988)
from parent co.’s published reserves.
Turbulent industrial conditions have so
far prevented this Springvale (Vic.) en-
gineering and foundry business from
maintaining output at the high war-time
levels. A brisk reconversion job was
carried out in 1945, the range of activities
has since been widened and good markets
exist for all products, but sections of the
works were immobilised for six months
last year by the long Victorian hold-up.
An almost equally serious handicap, lack
of fuel and basic metals, has persisted into
the current term.
Though now in its 50th year, the Kelly
and Lewis business became a public co.
only in 1939 and almost immediately
donned battledress. Centrifugal pumps
are the parent’s main line in peace-time ;
it also turns out air compressors, internal-
combustion engines and structural steel-
work. Three of its subsidiaries are con-
cerned with transport and distribution,
whilst five others manufacture A.C. and
D.C. motors and generators, farm
machinery, castings, repetition parts and
laundry machines. Two of the manufac-
turing offshoots have sprouted up since
1945 ; another has extended into retail
selling, with leased showrooms in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, and agencies for im-
ported items as well as the family pro-
ducts. Including a hydraulic-research
laboratory completed by the parent last
term, fixed assets rose by £31,016 more
than the depreciation allowance. To
finance the various extensions, provide
working capital and lop away outside
holdings in the subsidiaries, shareholders
Were called upon late in the term to
double the parent’s capital:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital. . £152,646 £195,305 £195,305 £420,000
Net reserves* 32,397 54,177 49,717 95,443
Outside interests 10,004 11,453 12,434
Overdrafts .. 92,385 118,701 182,718 . 64,784
Creditors . . 75,087 132,848 95,681 103,248
Tax provision 5,563 11,566 19,071 10,292
Freeholds .. 29,370 61,769 61,153 68,539
Plant . . 65,179 98,421 108,426 132,056
Stocks . . 124,973 216,187 205,269 307,160
Debtors . . 145,856 152,916 185,737 102,638
Cash, invest-
ments . . 5,006 4,522 4,106 93,255
* After deducting book value of intangibles.
The new funds, including £28,121 in share
premiums, enabled the board to reduce
liabilities by £131,580, increase cash hold-
ings by £37,149 and invest £52,000 in
associated tractor cos.
A 44 p.c. drop in debtors’ balances and
a 49 p.c. rise in stocks (largely incom-
plete work in progress) are measures of
the output lost through strikes and
material shortages. Profits from manu-
facturing actually slipped last term, but
retail sales retrieved the situation, the final
£20,990 being an improvement of £l6Ol
on 1946. That figure includes £1779
from sales of fixed assets and was struck
after providing £6549 for depreciation
(down £224) and £3674 for tax (up £53).
After paying the prefs. 8 p.c. it represen-
ted 11.5 p.c. on previous ord. capital,
compared with 10.5, 13, 15, 11.1 and 10.7
p.c. back to 1942. '
Capital now comprises 46,000 £1 first
prefs., cumulative to 6 p.c. and partici-
pating to 8 p.c.; 94,000 £1 second prefs.
cumulative to 5 p.c. but non-participat-
| ing; and 280,000 £1 ords. To pay the
new second prefs. their standard rate and
maintain 8 p.c. this term for the firsts and
the ords. will require a total handout of
£30,780. Though the board has laid
solid foundations for the co.’s ultimate
success, the chairman confesses that at
present “it has an unenviable task in
keeping production moving.”
The ords. are currently priced around
295. 6d., yielding 5.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis ; their net tangible asset backing
is 265. lOd. on consolidated figures. The
first prefs. at 30s. yield 5.2 p.c. on their
maximum div. basis, or 4 p.c. from the
cumulative 6 p.c. rate ; and the second
prefs. are valued around 235., yielding
4.3 p.c. The prefs. rank alike for capital,
having net asset backing of 735. Bd. each.


DAVIES & COLEISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
Angus & Robertson’s Book Selection
COTTAGE AND GARDEN IN AUSTRALIA, by Edna Walling.
A beautiful book profusely illustrated with half-tone illustrations.
21/- (post 6d.).
UNFORGETTABLE UNFORGOTTEN, by Anna Buchan (O. Douglas).
15/3 (post 6d.).
THE SCARED MEN IN THE KREMLIN, by John Fischer.
An account of life and conditions in Russia today. 10/6 (post 4d.).
THE POEMS OF ADAM LINDSAY GORDON. With a life of the poet.
8/6 (post 6d.).
COBBERS, by Thomas Wood. New supply— over 100,000 copies sold.
6/6 (post 4d.).
DARK INTERLUDE. Another exciting novel by Peter Cheyney.
8/6 (post 4d.).
THE CHEQUER BOARD. A new novel by Nevil Shute, author of “Pastoral,”
“Most Secret.” 10/6 (post 4d.).
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. MA 6511.
o
w,
Airway Caret, In
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvas
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited . . .
but increasing!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD .
Wholesale only
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
POINTS FROM THE
GENERAL MANAGER’S CIRCULAR TO SHAREHOLDERS
The Company’s mills in Aus-
tralia are expected to make
about 125,000 tons of raw
sugar this season; The estimate
of total raw sugar production
for Australia is now 585,000
tons, which is about 70% of
the normal pre-war level.
In Fiji, the estimate is 135,000
tons of sugar approximately the
pre-war level.
About 200,000 tons of raw
sugar are stored in Queens-
land awaiting shipment to re-
fineries in capital cities. Owing
to the shipping and waterfront
position, raw sugar supplies in
recent months at most Austra-
lian refineries have been at
very low levels. On a number
of occasions stocks became
completely exhausted, forcing
several of the refineries either
to ease down or close down
temporarily.
Intermittent shortages of coal and
insufficient men for full factory oper-
ation, also strikes in other key in-
dustries, have contributed to the
shortages of refined sugar that have
occurred in several States during the
half-year. We have, however, pro-
vided Australian consumers in the
last 12 months with 11,000 tons more
refined sugar than in the previous
year. At this time of the year we
would normally have built up refined
sugar stocks of about 20,000 tons at
Australian refineries to assist in
meeting the usual very heavy demand
during the summer months, caused
mainly by the processing of the
fruit crops. The lack of stocks is
almost certain to result in some
shortage of refined sugar supplies in
several States in the summer and
autumn.
In removing coupon rationing
the Government passes the re-
sponsibility for the fair distri-
bution of goods in short sup-
ply on to the trades concerned.
Sugar is amongst the large group
of groceries and other goods and
services in more or less chronic
short supply. The Company has
asked the wholesale and retail groc-
ery trade, and food and drink manu-
facturers, to co-operate in the fair
distribution of the supplies available.
Quotas have been established in
most States for the manufacturers
and wholesale grocery houses. The
responsibility for equitable distribu-
tion to retail grocers rests on the
wholesalers, and the retailers control
supplies to individual householders.
As a business concern, obviously it
is in the interest of the Company to
sell as much refined sugar as possi-
ble. The public can rest assured
that we are doing all we can to
satisfy the demand in full.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has agreed to the request
of the Canegrowers and Mill
Owners for an increase in the
wholesale price of sugar by
£4/2/8 per ton, and the retail
price in capital cities rises by
»d. to per lb.
This alteration will restore to the
Sugar Industry the 1933 depression
cut. The refiners will not profit
from this price increase.
The demand for building
materials is undiminished but,
unfortunately, most of our
factories are working much be-
low their capacity because of
the railway transport shortage.
This applies particularly to our
Plaster and Gyprock Wallboard
Factories. Our new wallboard “Gyp-
rock”, has been released to the
market and the demand is already
in excess of the supply. Blue asbes-
tos fibre from our mines in Western
Australia is proving invaluable in
assisting our output of “Fibrobestos”
sheeting and roofing. The Cane-ite
Factory is still producing to capacity
and the Hardboard Factory is, after
many long delays in securing equip-
ment, now in the last stages of
completion and should soon be in
production.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has released the Com-
pany’s ships, “Tambua” and
“Fiona” and they are again
trading on our account.
The elimination of the War-
time (Company) Tax has not
directly affected the Company.
Reports of a high rate of Com-
pany profits are wrong.
The error arises from making com-
parisons with past years merely in
terms of money, and neglecting to
make allowance for the fact that
today’s £ is not worth nearly as
much as even a few years ago.
Actually, according to the Common-
wealth Bank’s Statistical Bulletin,
even the money profits, that is, the
number of £s earned, of some of the
most important companies in Austra-
lia are less than pre-war and, in
purchasing power, the most import-
ant fdctor, are only two-thirds of
the pre-war level.
It is desirable to correct the
impression so often conveyed
that profits are comparatively
high.
The principal point I wish to
stress here is that it is quite wrong
to assume that the present level of
profits is as high as it was in “pre-
war” times.
The Graphs below show the course
taken by this Company’s profits since
1937, also the course taken by wage
rates in the Company's service in
Australia in the same period.
The first graph shows the move-
ment in wages and profits expressed
in money in the ordinary way. The
true picture is very different, a-s
shown in the second graph. In this
the real value (purchasing power)
of the wages rates is shown and com-
pared with the real value of what
has been earned for the share-
holders.
These Graphs show the dis-
tinct improvement in the
position of wage earners.
To this improvement there has to
be added overtime eamings, the 40-
hour week, additional smokos and
rest pauses, extra amenities, the ad-
ditional week’s paid annual leave
and paid sick pay periods, extended
employees’ accident insurance (com-
pensation), also group life assurance
subsidised by the Company, which
are not in any way included in the
wages rates used in the graph.
This is not written to begrudge
the improvement enjoyed by
employees but because I think
shareholders and the public
should know that, in general,
and in our case, the wage
earner has improved his posi-
tion materially, but the posi-
tion of the shareholder has de-
teriorated. Distinct improve-
ment in his return is overdue.
Increased production can
bring improvements to both
wage earners and share-
holders.
tof 1917
Employees Wapes and Earnings
for Shareholtfcns expressed in
REAL VALUES
Employees Wades ond Earnings
for f>hnr* holders exoressed In
for Shareholders expressed
MONEY VALUES
7*Ti
*&■
.t
Employees
Real Wage Rotes
7
REDUCTION | .
n Real Earnings
lor Shareholders
19)8 1919 1940
194 Z 1941
NOTES TO GRAPHS:
(X) Conversion from Money to Real Values
based on “C Series —All Items” Index
number of the Commonwealth Statistic-
ian, as used by the Arbitration Court
for Basic Wage Adjustments.
(2) Graphs based on C.S.R. Co. Ltd. total
nett earnings for each year. In case it
may be. thought that the earnings fell
because we were doing less business. I
would state that our turnover is much
more now than in 1937.
Base Metals
During the last 12 months the London
Metal Exchange—the place where, pre-
war, international metal prices were made
—has remained closed, and the picture of
base-metal prices has been, and still is,
confused. That is because scarcities,
bottlenecks and currency questions, and
the controls to which they give* rise, are
everywhere hindering the orderly relation-*
ship of prices on which healthy markets
flourish.
The U.S. is the crux of the problem.
Before the war it was largely self-suffi-
cient for base-metals, with the exception
of tin; at the current level of consump-
tion it is not, and is therefore a com-
petitor with the rest of the world for
its marginal requirements. Thus the level
of industrial activity in U.S. has been an
important factor in determining base-
metal prices, and will continue to be for
an indefinite period.
In the sterling area the British Ministry
of Supply is the principal buyer, and it
has been compelled to follow the bids of
its most powerful competitor. The fol-
lowing table shows the course of London
(sterling) metal prices since mid-1945:
LONDON METAL PRICES.
Electrolytic
Date Zinc. Lead. Copper. Tin.
Altered. £stg. £stg. £stg. £stg.
June, 1945 .. 31± SO 62 300
Jan., 1946 .. 81* 39 62 300
March, 1946 . . 31* 39 62 357
April, 1946 . . 39± 45 , 72 357
July, 1946 50 55 84 357
Sept., 1946 ..60 65 84 380
Nov., 1946 55 55 98 380
Jan., 1947 70 70 117 380
Mar., 1947 ~ 70 70 137 437
April, 1947 70 90 137 437
July, 1947 .. 70 90 132 437
Over the two years to July last the price
of zinc rose by £3B| (124 p.c.), lead £6O
(200 p.c.), electrolytic copper £7O (112
p.c.) and tin £137 (45.6 p.c.).
Lead and tin are in the strongest posi-
tion statistically. Lead is the stronger
of the two, and likely to remain so. The
position should ease a little as Mt. Isa
(Q.), Burma, Sicily and Germany come
into the picture again. Output in Yugo-
slavia has now been deflected to the
U.S.S.R. Scarcity and high prices, how-
ever, lead to the use of substitutes —
aluminium, where possible, is displacing
copper and zinc, and copper ts~ displacing
lead. As mentioned earlier, .the price
structure depends mainly upon the indus-
trial position in U.S.
As for tin, the metal available is little
more than half world requirements at
the moment. The position should im-
prove as production in Malaya gathers
way, and as the N.E.I. and Siam get back
into the picture. A further lift in the
New York and London price of the
metal is expected early in 1948, when the
existing U.S. contract with Bolivia runs
out. The position of zinc and copper is
more difficult to judge. For zinc the
bottleneck still seems to be smelting. As
for copper, many consider ore reserves
and plant capacity equal to world needs,
but strikes, labor difficulties, the fuel
problem and currency question compli-
cate the position. However, taking
metals by and large, the demand in over-
seas markets is strong, and producers ex-
pect no difficulty in disposing of output
during 1948 at highly profitable prices.
In Australia the Government has ex-
ploited the country’s strong position as a
producer of lead and zinc by keeping
the price of each metal pegged at the
1940 level of £A22 a ton, which is now
below cost of production. The Aus-
tralian market for lead and zinc is met
solely from the output of the mines at
the Barrier (N.S.W.) and at Rosebery
(Tas.), through the big lead and zinc re-
fineries at Port Pirie (S. Aus.) and Ris-
don (Tas,) respectively. For the year to
June 30 last about 23 p.c. of the lead
output at Pirie and 48 p.c. of zinc pro-
duction at Risdon were sold locally at
the fixed price. Other Australian pro-
ducers of lead and zinc in the form of
concentrates are allowed to sell the whole
of their output overseas at world prices.
Australian official buying price of
electrolytic copper was £lOO a ton in
June, 1945 ; it dropped to £95 in Feb.,
1946, was lifted to £l3O in April, 1947,
and has remained steady since. The over-
all increase amounts to 30 p.c. as against
112 p.c. overseas. Australian fixed buying
price for tin rose from £371 in June,
1945, to £4lB Jan., 1947, £434 Feb., 1947,
and £515 Aug., 1947. The overall in-
crease is 38.8 p.c. as against 45.6 p.c.
overseas.
The disparity between Australian fixed
prices and the world value of metals as
expressed by London quotes is seen in the
next table:
Elec.
Lead. Zinc. Copper. Tin.
London price ...V £9of £7of £l32f £437f
Aust. equivalent 1121 871 165 546*
Aust. fixed price 22t 22J 130* 515§
t Sterling, delivered buyer. 1 F.o.b. smelter.
*Ex works. § F.o.b. Sydney.
It is plain that exports provide the divi-
dends paid by Australia’s big lead and
zinc producers, while local consumers get
both metals at an artificially low figure.
The position is overdue for review.
“Sumting Nutting”: Adelaide greets
some of its mining reports with a very
cold eye these days. On December 8 a
report from Dundas Gold Mine, N.L.,
quoted an exposure of ore 20in. wide,
going 396dwt., 106dwt. and 467dwt. per
ton; yet the market remained quite un-
impressed. High assays have been re-
ported from the same source on other
occasions ; but the battery has failed to tell
the same story for any sizable crushing.
* * * *
Westralian Notes: North Kalgurli’s
latest ore-reserve estimate is 1,116,915
tons positive and 431,470 probable.
Gold contents are 346,825 and 119,522
fine oz. respectively. Manager’s yearly
report mentions good developments at
the seventh and eighth levels, which helped
to build up the tonnage in sight. Like
Lake View’s scrip, North Kalgurli’s is in
strong demand in the market.... Lucky
Mountain View Syndicate recently
crushed a further 185 tons for an aver-
age of Boz. Its mine has been taken over
by a Perth option holding co., which is
searching at a depth of 470 ft. for down-
ward continuation of the rich shoot from
which the vendor has obtained several
big yields'.... .Timoni’s treatment plant,
Mt. Ida, damaged by fire a year or so ago,
is again operating. First two months’
gold return was approximately 900 oz.
from 879 tons. Co. is in the London-
controlled Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment stable.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Approach to 1948
The outstanding features of world
social conditions as this year draws to its
close are still-inadequate production of
living necessities, the surplus of paper
money and credit in most countries, inflat-
ing prices, the demand for shorter work-
ing time and higher wages in the demo-
cracies, and the spread of Communist
mischief over the globe—now meeting
resistance where any semblance of demo-
cracy remains.
Prices of most things continued to
mount throughout the world during 1947,
and to create the greatest economic
problem of the present time. Wool
and wheat remain at record levels, and
lead and most other metals have soared
to new peaks. Butter, meat and foods
generally are scarce and dear almost
everywhere. But Australia, a great ex-
porter of wool, wheat, metals and dairy
produce, is finding that the cost of im-
ported manufactures is now ihopping-up
most of the increased income from ex-
ports, and in the dollar area the position
has become critical. Australians will
be startled at the size of newspapers
(dependent on dollar newsprint) in 1948.
Not even in the United States, where
production of many things has run well
beyond pre-war levels, have prices as
a whole shown any tendency to fall.
Washington is alarmed at the position,
partly from the fear that the higher a
thing goes the greater is the likelihood
and extent of its fall, and President
Truman has been trying to reintroduce
limited price-control and the rationing
of goods in short supply. But the Re-
publican Congress has instead decided to
extend .controls over exports and over
transportation, to ask for a voluntary
allocation of industrial materials to the
most useful purposes, and to restrict
credit-expansion through the powers
possessed by the Federal Reserve Bank.
In Australia the price-level is still ris-
ing. A 40-hour week became operative
in N. S. Wales earlier this year, antici-
pating the granting of 40-hours under
Federal awards as from January 1, 1948.
The basic wage is now over £5 10s., com-
pared with 795. before the war; the
present wage includes a special “loading”
granted during the period of the 40-hours
inquiry. There is a greater pressure on
costs now than there has been at any
time since the war ended. Railway trans-
port charges, sea-freight rates and fares
of almost all kinds have risen sharply.
At this point, too, the Federal Govern-
ment has made it clear that it intends to
abandon, by steps, its price-subsidy
policy, which will have a noticeable effect
on the cost of living—tea, potatoes, dairy
produce, other foods and some clothing
having been subsidised at considerable
Budget cost for years past.
On the basis of conversion of Aus-
tralian currency into dollars, our cost of
living and some production costs are still
comparatively low. But except in cases
where output per man-hour is in fact
higher than in overseas countries, and
where overhead and capital charges are
lower, this seeming advantage in produc-
tion costs is a fiction, and is not to be
relied upon permanency.
Should the United States, decide to
adopt a policy of deflation, such. as
Britain attempted in the early 19205, it
might affect the overseas price-level con-
siderably, with harsh repercussions on
our economy. The cost of manufactured
goods, based on wage costs, will fall less
rapidly than raw materials when the
swing from high prices does come, and
in such circumstances Australian overseas
trade would be particularly vulnerable.
Up till the moment the only talk of de-
flation has come from the United States.
True, it is the key country in the world
price-structure. But deflation is politically
unpopular, even if economically desirable
in some respects, and it is more likely that
even the Republican party would be satis-
fied to settle for a levelling-off in costs
and prices.
At the same time the world production
position is not one to suggest an early
fall in prices whatever financial policy is
adopted. Output is still inadequate, and,
in the case of food in many parts of the
world, pitifully inadequate. It has been
contended that one bountiful harvest in
Europe would see the end of the world
food shortage. But there has been no
such European harvest since the war
ended, and winter has again descended.
Whilst production of goods and ser-
vices is still below the level of demand,
the amount of money being created in
most countries is of record proportions.
Wages are higher, working hours are
shorter, “social benefits” are greater,
Budget deficits (financed often by credit-
expansion) larger.
The influence of gold in world currency
is frustrated for the present; it has been
legislated out of action. It is a paper-
money world, with political controls in
most countries. Though exchange rates
are under control of the World Bank,
internal costs and prices, which set com-
parative money values all over the world,
are left to internal political and industrial
conditions.
Ideas of “full employment” based on
Budget-spending, taxation and price-
control are prevalent in British countries
and, to a lesser extent, the United States.
The U.S.A. saw a modified version of the
Keynesian idea during its experience of
the New Deal. Whilst this “full-employ-
ment” policy prevails it is likely to go
on injecting an excess of money into
national financial systems. Excess money
continues to be created in the Common-
wealth. The process appeared to slow-
down for a time during 1946-47, but it
seems to be “on” again now.
The Federal Government is to seek
powers to control prices permanently
some time in the New Year. It is sug-
gested that it will defer its request for a
few months in view of the public hos-
tility engendered by its legislation aim-
ing to nationalise the trading banks. The
effect of the basic-wage loading, the 40-
hour week, and the Government’s with-
drawal of price-subsidies may bring about
a disturbing rise in prices early in the
new year; but the public should not be
misled into thinking that permanent
price-control will be able to prevent this
"Thanks for the case of whisky and your good wishes which have NOT
arrived yet, Yours -”
any more than it has done in the past.
Even if all business profits were used to
subsidise prices a Central-Government
policy that continued to create excess
money without seeing to it that full value
was received in the way of output from
trade-unionists would be bound to reveal
its futility in continuously rising prices.
It will be impossible to keep inflation
that is created as a policy from making
itself felt in the price- and costs-level
eventually.
The Commonwealth Budget is still of
huge dimensions, even though the war
has been over for more than two years.
Government departments have inflated
staffs: —the Federal civil service has
trebled since the war —and social-security
costs have risen to a figure greater than
most pre-war Budget totals. “Defence”
spending is used as a cloak to cover up
much outgo that has a political purpose,
and heavy losses are being shown in
socialised industries, even though the
Government has tried to disentangle it-
self from inter-State shipping after
thoroughly .demoralising the service.
Taxes therefore remain high. The
only relief companies have received has
been the removal of War-time (Com-
pany) Tax. There has been no return of
the rebate system.
The buoyant sharemarket in Australia
is justified mainly on inflationary
grounds, plus hopes that within a year or
two our economy will return to one in
which thrift and enterprise will be
allowed rewards. Though, in terms of
money, many share prices have risen,
rarely have they gone to a point where,
if sold, the proceeds would buy more
than their price would in 1938 ; and in
90 p.c. of cases the dividend-income re-
ceived from them has nothing like the
buying-power of 1938 dividends.
Summed up, 1947 draws to its close
with the economics of scarcity still pre-
dominant, with the policy of “full em-
ployment” bringing complications not
generally admitted by its sponsors, and
with officialdom striving to counter the
effect of reactions arising from its political-
economic actions by continuing legalistic
and financial controls (and, in Australia,
by bank-nationalisation) to an oppressive
extent so far as individual initiative is
concerned.
The Australian sharemarkets closed for
the year on a level as high as any touched
during 1947. It has been hard indeed for
any small investor looking down the
share-lists to find a stock giving a yield
that will assure anything like a satisfactory
income from the money invested, especi-
ally with living costs high as they are.
The low yields arise partly from price-
control and heavy taxation restricting all
dividend distributions, partly from the
pressure of the great amount of
paper-money investment and spend-
ing funds established by the Aus-
tralian community as a whole, and
partly from the Government’s low-
interest policy, which sets the standard
return for other investments. A buoyant
market is likely to continue well into
1948 if only because of inflationary con-
ditions ; money is continuing to lose its
value, and the process may be accelerated
for a time by the 40-hour week and by
the gradual extinction of price-subsidies.
But it seems that even the socialists within
the democracies are turning half-heartedly
towards a little deflation, though they
may be seeking a catspaw to start the
movement. However, much of our war-
time inflation is with us for.keeps ; and
if a deflationary movement does start it
may be accompanied by a freeing of pri-
vate enterprise that will be to the advan-
tage of many Australian industries. There
is still a great unsatisfied demand ahead
of our factories, on the whole.
* * * *
Life-assurance societies have been
buyers of large amounts of shares in
listed public companies for some time,
being forced into this class of investment
by the low rate of interest offering on
Consols, mortgages, deposits, etc. The
chairman of the National Trustees
co. in Melbourne has advised people
making wills to give their executor-trustee
co. power to invest funds in preference
and ordinary shares and debentures in
established public companies. Costs of
administering estates are rapidly rising,
while income from statutory trustee in-
vestments has been falling as a conse-
quence of the Government’s cheap-
money policy.
* * * *
New Zealand Forest Products, Ltd., in
which Australian investors are deeply
interested, may finance the new milling
programme (B. 24/12/’47) by the issue of
debentures, possibly to the extent of
£3,000,000. Included in the programme
is a pulp-and-paper mill with an annual
capacity of 10,000 tons, to be built partly
m Australia and Maoriland. N.Z. Forest
Products £1 ordinary shares are quoted
at around 7s. 6d. on the Stock Exchanges,
and the 5 p.c. prefs. at about 12s. The
Maoriland Government has treated its
forestry companies severely both from
the prices and taxation points of view,
showing no sympathy for investors who
have waited more than 20 years without
a return on their money.
* * * *
The Federal Government will be ask-
ing for an extension of its price-control
powers some time in 1948. Price-control
ill war-time and during the transition
period has been a very desirable thing ;
but it has always been regarded by The
Bulletin as an emergency measure de-
signed to see an economy temporarily
deficient in the supply of goods and
services through its period of deficiency,
provided all possible efforts are being
made to fill the production gap. The
Federal “Labor” Government has not
until recently shown that it regarded the
production depression as a serious
matter ; it has loafed along under the
protection of “controls,” attempting to
socialise our economy here and there,
never taking a firm stand against indus-
trial outlaws who have repeatedly
damaged or slowed-down the Australian
production machine, and encouraging the
introduction of the 40-hour week, as well
as the “prosperity” loading to the basic
wage. To cap it all, the nation has been
thrown into political and social alarm as
a result of the attempt to “nationalise”
the tradmg banks. The inflation
danger has become a growing menace to
the Australian economic structure —this
paper was the first to emphasise the
dangers that were crowding in on our
economy early in Labor’s period of office
—but “Labor’s” cynical abuse of the
powers it has received from the people
is a far greater one. The “Labor” Gov-
ernment is sadly lacking in sincerity,
democratic principles, fair-dealing and
ability to tell the plain truth.
* * * *
New Zealand Government control of
credits, power to veto new share issues
and to fix premiums on new shares
carry Government dictation in finance
to a point never experienced before, even
m war. Directors and investors were
startled by the first official ban against
expansion of capital when an Auckland
company, Traders Finance Corp., was
denied the authority early in December
to issue 70,000 additional 17s. 6d. shares.
This concern had been forced off new
overdraft finance when Minister Walter
Nash pulled the purse-strings a while
back, and new capital was the logical
solution in financing larger numbers of
new- and used-car purchases at high
present-day prices, which was the co.'s
business. Now Traders Finance, with its
23 years’ experience, has to be satis-
fied with a mere £lO,OOO of new funds,
the annual maximum' allowed without
official consent. Fixing share-premiums
is less alarming because cos. can still go
ahead with plans, and there is precedent
for this action in Australian moves. The
first N.Z. case was a premium of 20s.
ordered on a new issue of £1 shares of
Donaghy’s Rope and Twine Co. to
foot higher costs for plant, buildings and
raw materials. As Donaghy’s shares have
been firm at £3 10s. on the market there
doesn’t seem much to quibble about in a
premium which makes new shares cost
£2.
* * * *
Britain has agreed to pay Australia
2035. 6d. sterling a hundredweight for
butter (up 305.), and 116 s. 6d. for cheese.
The f.o.b. price of our butter to Britain
is now over 2s. 3d. a pound in Australian
currency. Denmark has been a little
difficult to deal with lately, contending
that it pays too much for British coal
and gets too little for Danish butter, and
demanding a higher price for the latter.
* * * *
The Kariava borehole of Australasian
Petroleum Pty. has gone down to nearly
11,000 feet, the greatest depth ever drilled
in New Guinea, and no gusher has yet
been reported. But drilling goes on, and
so does surface exploration; plans are
being made for the drilling of two or
three more boreholes. Hopes of
eventual success are high, though the
quest has been a long and expensive one.
The Australian public is interested in the
Kariava venture through Oil Search, Ltd.,
which has a one-fifth interest in Austra-
lasian Petroleum. Oil Search now has a
capital issue of 2,719,219 shares of ss.
each.
, * H= * *
Repayment of £11,225,000 sterling of
New Zealand’s London debt (£14,000,000
in M.L. currency) knocked the Re-
serve Bank exchange funds back in early
November to £65,641,000, the lowest
point since the summer of 1946. There’s
a further dip of £24,000,000 to be made
into the funds when another loan is
wiped out next March to reduce
M.L.’s London-domiciled debt to
£NZ83,000,000, excluding the funded
World War I liability of £30,000,000,
which has beert in cold store since 1931.
After March N.Z.’s debt to John Bull will
be less than half the total existing at the
end of the war, and by far the lowest
since early in the century. Outsize de-
mands to buy imports have been eating
into London funds, too, but M.L. reckons
there should be a recovery as wool,
dairy-produce and meat millions flow in
over the coming months.
*** , *
■ Electric-power shortage in New Zealand
has knocked neon and fluorescent light-
ing, first in the North Island and now in
both islands. There might be three or
four lean years ahead before signs can
be regularly lit, which means dull and
colorless M.L. towns and cities till, per-
haps, 1951. Thousands of signs have
been unlit for years, and it will cost a
tidy sum to repair or remove them. No
one wants to do either, but Chairman V.
J. Larner, of Claude Neon Lights, N.Z.,
Ltd., says there’s heavy spending ahead
to renovate signs in the North Island.
That’s bad enough, but worse is uncer-
tainty which undermines all moves to plan
ahead.


FELT & TEXTILES
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman’s Address, 12th December, 1947
It is with deep regret that I open my remarks to
you to-day with a reference to the passing of two
of our Directors —Mr. Henri Van de Velde and
Mr. J. K. Heydon.
The death of Mr. Van de Velde, our late Man-
aging Director, early in June last in New York,
must have come to you all, as it did to us, as a
great shock.
I am also sorry to have to record the death in
London on 30th September last of Mr. J. K..
Heydon, who was virtually the founder of the
Company and Chairman until 1936, and who re-
signed from the Board almost immediately before
his death.
FINANCIAL.
In commenting on the year s results, I am re-
ferring as usual to the Consolidated Accounts, and
not to those of the Parent Company, unless other-
wise stated. The Net Profit of the Company, srjd
subsidiaries, for the year ended 30th June, 1947,
was £301,953/0/0 after providing:—
1. £254,239 for Depreciation and
2. 294,135 for Taxation.
£548,374
The corresponding figures for the year ended
30th June, 1946, were:
Profit, £218,506 after providing—
1. £ I 59,764 for Depreciation and
2. 312,857 for Taxation.
£472,621
In April last a new issue was made of 312,5 78
new shares in the proportion of one to every four
shares previously issued. The reasons for this
issue were detailed to shareholders at the time and
the issue itself received a good reception except
for the objection taken by certain shareholders as
to the premium of £1 per share. I want to make
it quite clear that the Company had no voice in
seeking this premium. In fact, we did all that we
'could to persuade the Capital Issue Board that it
should not be made a condition of the issue, but
they insisted that, unless the issue was made at a
premium, approval for any issue of ordinary shares
would not be granted: it will be seen, therefore,
that we had no option in the matter.
We were able to distribute a substantial amount
of profits free of tax in the September dividend,
owing to the faict that tax-free reserves had accu-
mulated in the hands of certain more-recently-
acquired subsidiaries and which in the process of
acquisition had become our property.
I now propose to give you some figures relat-
ing to the trading which are not only interesting
but, I think, show with convincing clearness that
the secret of successful manufacturing and trading
in concerns such as ours lies in the ability to turn
over our capital quickly rather than in large
margins of profit. The figures I am giving you tak e
in, for facility of presentation, partly-owned sub-
sidiaries as if they were wholly owned. Turnover
of the group for the year ended 30th June, 1947,
has been £12,803,019.
100%
The Percentage of Items of Manu-
facturing Cost are:
Materials and Manufacturing
Expenses . .
Wages . .
73.61
14.65
88.26
Leaving a gross profit of
Taking therefrom —
Salaries
Other Overhead
1 1.74
3.24
3.49 6.73
Leaving net profit before taxation
of . . ...
Taxation requirements are . .
5.01
2.23
Leaving for us a final net profit
after tax of . .
2.78
Put in another way, we find that for every £1
taken, we expend for—
s. d.
£10 0
I have given these figures, too, for another
reason. They well deserve study by those gentle-
men who dote on the nationalisation of industry
and the iniquities of production for profit. The
figures illustrate how narrow the margin of profit
really is, which, under the conditions inescapable
under State enterprise, would inevitably vanish and
be converted into a loss to the detriment of every-
body.
During the year an opportunity arose to
acquire a controlling interest in Korma Textiles
(N.Z.). Ltd., which is a large customer of our
Centenary Mills, and is, in a sense, the counterpart
of that portion of our Australian business. It was
decided to acquire the whole of the Ordinary Shares
then issued. This was done by issuing to the vendors
of these ordinary shares 112,126 new ordinary
shares in Felt and Textiles of Australia, Limited.
The purchase was completed subsequent to the
30th June, 1947. Hence the additional ordinary
capital of £1 12,126 does not appear in the Balance
Sheet. In order to provide the necessary funds
for the financial requirements of the new subsidiary,
and owing partly to the difficulties associated with
the transfer of moneys from Australia to New
Zealand for such purposes, your Directors decided
to reduce their holdings in Felt and Textiles of
N.Z., Ltd., whilst still retaining over 50 p.c. of the
capital in this subsidiary. Unfortunately, through
lack of knowledge and a misunderstanding of what
was being done, which was cleared up as soon as a
public statement was made, the Company was sub-
jected to a good deal of uninformed criticism and
for 48 hours the VFellington and Christchurch Stock
Exchange did not quote Felt and Textiles of N.Z.,
Ltd.’s, shares, though the other Stock Exchanges in
New Zealand did not'take similar action.
As a matter of fact the whole transaction, which
was regarded as a very large one in New Zealand,
was carried through promptly at a reasonable dis-
count on the then ruling market prices and with a
minimum disturbance of the market for the shares
of Felt and Textiles of N.Z., Ltd. The Parent Com-
pany realised a Capital Profit of £149,208, which
will consolidate our financial position in that
Dominion for some time ahead. We have, also,
secured by this means a much wider distribution of
our shares amongst the New Zealand public, and
I feel confident the whole transaction will prove
of benefit to the shareholders of the Parent Com-
pany.
FELT PRICE: 1/- PER YARD OVER PRE-WAR.
We are producing more Felt of all kinds than
in any previous time in our history, but are still
only able to cater for a small portion of the aggre-
gate demand. Floor Felt is a line in which the
shortage is most acute. This, as you are aware,
was one of our original manufactures when we
•introduced to Australia the manufacture of woollen
Felts. Although we are making more floor Felts
than we ever have before, it is in greater demand
than ever. We believe that is due to the fact that it
is highly regarded by the public due to its being
relatively such an economical floor covering, with
wonderful wearing qualities. While the prices of
other commodities, including other floor coverings,
have increased vastly since 1939, the price of our
floor Felts has increased only 1/- per yard since
pre-war days. The trade is very anxious for us to
increase our output and we are just as eager to do
so, but, as I have just mentioned, extensions of this
kind cannot be carried through under present-day
conditions without considerable delay. For the
moment, therefore, we have to continue our policy
of making as equitable distribution to the trade as
possible and taking* every opportunity, as circum-
stances permit, of increasing output.
FOOTWEAR —SHORTAGE OF LEATHER.
In the footwear trade in Australia the major
difficulty in producing good-class footwear in the
qualities and quantities we desire is the shortage
of suitable leather. Peculiarities of price control
have contributed to this shortage as well as the
more attractive prices being secured for export.
We have been affected to a material extent by the
leather shortage and have been hampered in certain
of our production plans, particularly regarding pro-
prietary lines. In this latter field we are proposing
to extend our operations more and more as soon as
conditions make this possible.
WOOL-PLANTS TO CAPACITY.
Our own Top-making, Wool-scouring and Car-
bonising Plants, assisted by an improved flow of
labour, operated to capacity with production totals
outstripping all previous years, and even so, our
Companies are booked with orders for their pro-
ducts as far as twelve months ahead.
Consumption of Wool by our Felt Manufactur-
ing, Spinning and Weaving Mills, whose require-
ments are first of all covered by our Wool Process-
ing Companies, has been greatly stepped up by
reason of further development and expansion, and
it is opportune at this point to explain to share-
holders that all Wools purchased from the Auction
Sales for local manufacture are subsidised by the
Government back to the basic price levels existing
during the Wool Appraisement Scheme, in accord-
ance with price-control regulations. •
Wool is the chief basic raw material of the
majority of the various products manufactured
within our organisation, including Felt and Textiles
of N.Z., Ltd., and Felt and Textiles of South
Africa, Ltd.
Our Wool Processing Companies, by their con-
tinued research in keeping up a standard of the
highest quality of their range of Wooltops and
Scoured and Carbonised products, have achieved
most satisfactory results, and they are playing a
valuable part, not only very materially benefiting
our own organisation, but also in the national
economy by increasing the volume of Australia s
export trade, particularly with dollar countries.
SPINNING AND WEAVING.
The Centenary Mills at Bentleigh, as you have
seen from the Balance Sheet, are still in the course
of successful growth. During the year substantial
additions have been, made to the building and
considerable quantities of plant received. This has,
of course, greatly increased our output of yarn as
well as woven cloth. Much of the production goes
to our own clothing factories, which have also ex-
perienced a successful year.
The Daylesford Mill has added to its plant and
has made good progress generally. Both the Cen-
tenary and Daylesford Mills are devoting a large
proportion of their output to specially-designed
cloths, in which quality and distinction are the
main features. I
EXPANSION IN EMPLOYMENT.
Before leaving the subject of production it is
of interest to record the total number of our em-
ployees in Australia. At present it stands at 5 7 73,
of which 3189 are males and 2384 females. Of
this total 1266 (22 p.c.) are employed in our
country establishments.
SOUTH AFRICA.
In South Africa conditions during the year have
fluctuated very considerably. In the first place,
our own group has moved ahead in a very satis-
factory manner, and a new issue of one Ordinary
Share in three was made in March last. As you are
aware, we do not hold a controlling interest now
in this Company, not through having disposed of
any shares, but through fresh shares having been
issued in the acquisition of new subsidiaries in
which we could not share. The African situation
in our group is somewhat different from our own
since there are certain very large subsidiaries of the
South African Parent Company in a stage of early
development which have not yet reached a full
profit-earning stage.
NEW ZEALAND ACTIVITIES.
You will recall I mentioned to you last year the
proposals to increase the Capital of Felt and Tex-
tiles of New Zealand from £500,000 to £1,000,000
and to issue a further 130,000 Ordinary shares and
130,000 5 p.c. Cumulative Preference shares. This
issue brought strong support and was fully sub-
scribed. 'Capital issued by the New Zealand Com-
pany now consists of 455,000 Ordinary shares and
130,000 5 p.c. Cumulative Preference shares of
which a controlling interest is held by this Com-
pany.
Net profit of the New Zealand Company for
the year ended 31st March, 1947, after providing
£73,100 for Taxation, was £54,208, as compared
with £35,033 for the last year and £25,467 for the
year ended 3 l st March, 1945.
CONTROLS AND TRADING CONDITIONS.
At the moment no one can accurately forecast
just what effect the virtual suspension of a large
part of the trade between the sterling and dollar
areas will have. I feel that this is a time when
bureaucracy should keep in the closest possible
touch with the business community and do nothing
without a complete knowledge of all the surround-
ing facts which the business community alone can
give them. The high prices ruling for primary
products of most commodities are boosting on
local economy, necessitating a constantly rising
price level from which there is no escape. There
is every reason to-day to be cautious and in any
way open to us to strengthen our defences.
I believe that every effort should be made by
the Government as rapidly as possible and wher-
ever possible to release from control every com-
modity they can. We are still plagued with Gov-
ernment controls which are handicapping industry
and which are reducing production, I believe, in
many cases needlessly at a critical period of our
history. We still have price control of articles that
are in full supply in which competition can have
free rein. We are denied liberty to-day where there
should be and could be complete freedom, because
the powers that be have become imbued with the
fatal Fascist doctrine that an omnipotent and omni-
present “State” is greater than the “People,” a
doctrine that means death to the freedom that we
love and which we should be ever on our guard to
defend.
BOARD ALTERATIONS.
Mr. Van de Velde’s death necessitated the
appointment of a new Managing Director, and
our unanimous choice naturally fell on Mr. Cecil
Rhodes-Smith, who has been associated with the
Company for more than 20 years, firstly as a major
supplier of wool, and from 193 7 onwards as an
executive Director actively engaged in the manage-
ment and administration of our Company’s busi-
ness. Mr. Rhodes-Smith was entrusted with the
Managing Directorship of all our Wool Com-
panies, whose expansion and successful results have
been a feature of our Annual Reports. In associa-
tion with Mr. Van de Velde, he has been respon-
sible for a number of the major developments of the
Company, and I commend him to you as a most
worthy successor of the late Mr. Van de Velde. I
have every confidence that under his wise guidance
and capable direction the Company will continue
both to develop and consolidate its widespread
activities in future.


tm ut-Jj'. ■ 1
££
b
0
CSS*
Ideal for private or hire boats, the "Seasprite" will fit snugly
into the boot of your car for travelling. Weighing only 40 lbs.,
the motor is easily carried with its built-in carrying handle. Simple
controls and easy starting are combined with solid power and
you get 5 hours of ’’trouble-free” pleasure boating per gallon.
Enjoy a really Distinctive holiday with a "Seasprite".
f
mo
INCtU 0 1 N 6
SALES lAX
3-3 HORSE-POWER-WATER-COOLED
LIGHTWEIGHT w 4 0 LBS,
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
INSPECTION INVITED
Terms available - Deposit
£2310 0 and 16' Weekly
over 18 Months
c.
AUSTRALIAN MORIN
ENGINE C? P T - Y L T J>
59-63 IT LQTROBE ST
M E.L B 0 U R N E. Cl.
FOB FULL SPECIFICATIONS
WRITE OR CALL
SUNDRY SHOWS
Wirths.
The Greatest Show on Earth is back
at its old transpontine stand, Olympia,
Melbourne, as big and strident and
blatant as ever. It is also as neat and
as full of skill, animal and human. The
advent of Wirths used to synchronise
with an outburst of charges of cruelty
by animal-lovers whose sole acquaintance
with the lower creation was cats pam-
pered into a state of chronic indigestion
and dogs boring themselves to death in
suburban backyards.
There was no outburst this year, pos-
sibly because the recent display of man’s
inhumanity to man on a world scale has
made detractors self-conscious. Anyhow,
only a small amount of observation is
required to see that if Wirths’ dogs have
been given their skill .by harsh treatment
they show an incomprehensible affection
for their trainer. In fact, they look just
as proud of their achievement as any
human performer, and show no more
reluctance to monopolise the limelight.
Even the lions can do a bit of skiting—
five of the beasts present a thrilling act
under the watchful eye of Madame
Kovar, who, although she was mauled by
a lioness recently at Penrith (N.S.W.),
shows no animus towards her assailant.
When her back was turned for a moment
on the opening evening one of the brutes,
seeing a plank laid across empty space,
voluntarily walked across it, took a bow
and smirked when the audience raptur-
ously applauded while Phil Wirth
looked astonished, seeing no doubt the
germ of a new act.
The five elephants, which fill the ring
with gradual brawn and muscle, collec-
tively haven’t much grey matter in their
skulls, but they are extremely co-opera-
tive. The baby of the troupe crawls under
the bellies of its elders with obvious
enjoyment, if with less grace than the
five. Australian-bred Arabs, lovely
creatures as self-consciously meticulous
as ballerinas, bring to their complicated
manoeuvres, which they probably practise
on their own in the absence of A. K.
Werner de Renroff.
All this is not so surprising. Why
should an animal feel any more resent-
ment towards the trainer who has dis-
ciplined it into doing things that poor
old Dobbin never even dreamed of than
a world-famous pianist should resent the
tyranny of his teachers? Incidentally,
Wirths never neglect the old campaigners
who have served them in the past, and the
old lions who bore the present troupe of
youngsters are ending their days in a
commodious cage at the back of the
booth where the sheep with two tails, the
cow with seven legs, the politician with a
brain and other extraordinary freaks of
nature can be inspected after the per-
formance.
In the realm of human skill the Flying
Waynes are the highlight of the pro-
gramme with their exquisitely-timed
trapeze act. La Frankie, Queen of the
Air, and the balancing Valento run them
a good second. The traditional clowns
are as traditional as ever, except the
Cavallini Brothers, who stage a boxing
act which is a ringer.
"Bush Christmas."
This picture, showing at Sydney Em-
bassy and at Melbourne Athenseum, was
made in N. S. Wales by the J. Arthur
Rank organisation and has already been
released, to shouts of praise, in New
York and London, where it was taken
as a wonderful representation of Aus-
tralia in letter and spirit.
The film tells the story of five country
schoolchildren who are unconsciously
responsible for the theft of a valuable
mare belonging to their father, and how
their feeling of guilt inspires them to sally
forth to capture the horse thieves. From
the baby, who rides like a centaur, to
the aboriginal boy Neza, who is a monu-
ment of wisdom, they show a positively
uncanny capacity to bamboozle their
elders, tramping round their heads when
-4
they are sleeping and rolling boulders
down precipitous mountain sides on to the
heads of the bandits. They finally track
the thieves to a deserted mining township,
where they receive their first reverse, being
strung up on the hooks in the butcher’s
shop. The mounted police ride in, how-
ever, the law is triumphant and the
wonderful kids get home for Christmas
dinner.
As representative of Australia in letter
and spirit or as a description of the
resourceful Australian bush kid, the film
wouldn’t take in a mopoke, but it was
conceived, acted and directed for juvenile
audiences in England and has the disarm-
ing simplicity common to children’s
adventure yarns. It is juvenile entertain-
ment, pure and simple, and the un-
answerable assessment of its quality as
such is provided by the rapt attention
and the excited shrieks and shouts of the
thousands of youngsters who have seen it.
"Green Dolphin Street."
This celluloid marathon is based on a
novel for which M.-G.-M. awarded Eliza-
beth Goudge a prize of 200,000 dollars,
and the only conclusion possible is that
either Miss Goudge was very handsomely
rewarded for her labors, or that Metro
have not done full justice to their
200,000 dollars.
The film kicks off in a Channel Island
setting with two daughters of a respect-
able businessman, Marguerite (Donna
Reed) and Marianne (Lana Turner), both
falling for the shiftless son (Richard
Hart) of a penniless drunken doctor
(Frank Morgan). The young man falls
for Marguerite, but, by the enterprise of
Marianne, he is dispatched to a naval
college to heave him up the social ladder
a rung or two and turn him into a fitting
matrimonial match. The young fellow’s
naval career is terminated by too much
rice wine in a Chinese shakedown, where-
upon he sails for New Zealand and goes
into the timber business with another
exile from the Channel Islands (Van
Heflin), who, in the forest fastness of
the North Island, is eating his heart out
or something for Marguerite.
With such a tangle to work on, Miss
Goudge really goes to town. Mr. Hart,
in a bout of morbid drunkenness, writes
for his lost love to join him, but, in
alcoholic fumes, pens the name of Mari-
anne instead of Marguerite. The young
lady hies herself off to Maoriland, to the
consternation of Mr. Hart, who, however,
under the noble influence and suffering
eyes of Mr. Heflin, is forced to marry
her. Thereafter Mr. Heflin suffers soul-
fully and long through earthquakes and
Maori wars while his beloved and the
unhappily-married Mr. Hart try to sort
out their domestic affairs. This they do
by going sheep-farming in the South
Island and leaving Mr. Heflin to return
to his suffering and solitude and Maori
mates in the forest fastness.
That’s not quite 200,000 dollars’ worth,
so Mr. Hart and his wife are dispatched
from New Zealand back to the Channel
Islands, where the lovelorn Marguerite
has finally decided to enter a convent. A
secret drawer in the old home gives up
an old letter which proves to Marianne
that her husband* really loved Marguerite
and that she (Marianne, dammit) has
more or less been the cuckoo in the nest
all these years. It then behoves Mr. Hart
to prove to his wife that time and tide
and the years of mutual suffering and
whatnot have changed his affections, and
that he really loves her (Marianne, blast
it) after all. So Marguerite goes con-
tentedly into the convent, Marianne and
Mr. Hart go happily on their wedded way
and Mr. Heflin remains safely out of the
business in New Zealand, hewing timber,
beating earthquakes and sorting out the
Maori wars.
"Black Narcissus."
This expanse of technicolor has to do
with a remote Himalayan village and the
attempt of a religious order to establish
a mission school and hospital there. The
local ruler gives them an old palace
where he used to keep his harem, a
building perched on a ledge 6000 feet up
the mountain, and the five sisters set
about establishing themselves against con-
siderable opposition.
Their first handicap is the nerve-wrack-
ing, continuous wind blowing over from
Kanchenjunga, the second is the pagan
nature of the villagers, the third is the
English adviser to the local ruler, who is
almost as pagan as the rest of ’em and
who is more interested in women than
religion, the fourth is the son of the ruler,
who decides to attend the mission school,
and the fifth is the young native girl who
entices him away from higher education.
Against all this opposition the sisters
suffer-a kind of spiritual decline, which
culminates in one of them going mad and
falling over the cliff in an attempt to
murder her superior. The remaining
sisters, feeling their own faiths shaking,
pack up and leave the place to its wise
old men and its paganism.
The film was made by Michael Powell
and Emeric Pressburger and, like a good
deal of their work, hangs more on the
novelty of its situations than on any
strength of characterisation. That is a
common weakness in films good
characterisation will almost always carry
or make a story, but a story on its own
will not carry or make characters —and
one that is becoming more common in
English productions. The quiet artistry
of early English pictures is slowly but
noticeably disappearing as Mr. Rank
and his organisation are gearing the in-
dustry to mass production, and the im-
provements on technical and production
sides are only keeping pace with artistic
degeneration.
This current offering has some com-
petent players, including Deborah Kerr,
David Farrar and Flora Robson, but
none of them reaches any height of
characterisation. The fault lies more
with the directing than the acting—the
story and the camera wander too much
over scenery and spectacle and other
irrelevant details and give too little time
to the development or, in this case, the
deterioration of character. It should
be recorded, however, that the scenery
and interior settings include some of the
most spectacular technicolor shots seen
for a long time.
The Australian stage being in such a
parlous state, most of its best players
have to go over, or at least give most of
their time, to the more lucrative and regu-
lar employment offered by radio. Many
young players, discovered and trained by
amateur and semi-professional theatre
KEVIN BRENNAN.
groups, have been lost to the stage, and,
although they no doubt improve radio
programmes, the loss of them is another
knock for the legit, iheatre. Kevin Bren-
nan, here depicted by Prior (the sideburns
and other hirsute decorations are tem-
porary growths for his part in the Eureka
Stockade film), is a case in point. He is
one of the best actors in Australia —in
fact, it’s hard to think of a better one —
but spends more time in radio work than
he does on the stage. He has a resonant,
flexible voice which is particularly effec-
tive in broadcast plays, but he needs the
full freedom of the legit, stage to show
himself at his best. He has a command-
ing presence and a perfectly controlled
voice, and has proved that he can play
comedy or tragedy with equal artistry and
skill —his Toby Belch and his Othello
were some of the best Shakspearean act-
ing seen in Sydney for many a year.
Other plays in which he has figured with
distinction include “Murder in the
Cathedral,” “The Ascent of F 6,” “The
Time of Your Life,” “Ned Kelly,”
“Awake, My Love,” and the Indepen-
dent’s recent production of “The- Little
Foxes.” Brennan, who was born in
Sydney and played his first part in the
Sydney Drama Society’s production of
Esson’s “Andegonora,” stems from the
same family tree as Chris Brennan, and
those who have known both assert that
the resemblance is more than noticeable.
* * * *
Hermit crabs would hurl away their
vows and bubble praise should Esther
Williams and M.-G.-M.’s water ballet
ever invade their home waters. In “This
Time for Keeps,” at Sydney St. James,
the lasses swim as whiting inspired by
the festive bottle; Lauritz Melchior
ranges from the classics to light modern
ditties, while “Schnozzle” Durante evokes
the best laugh of the show by tearing the
piano to shreds in search of “The Lost
Chord.”


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney, except for the mothers and
aunts who cooked traditional _ dinners,
spent the Christmas holidays in sweet
laziness. After the Christmas Eve
showers and Heaven’s sprinklers over the
morning of the Great Feast itself, there
was sunshine hot and golden on the skin.
People who have seaside homes from
Manly to Palm Beach went all fiesta,
bathed and sunbaked, and were duly
photographed by the picture magazines
and Sunday papers. But not the Piute
and the photographed alone enjoyed the
sea breezes. There were a few thousand
under canvas along that route, too. The
beaches at Manly, Bondi and Coogee
were ecstatic with the shouts of children
—millions of children, or so it seemed,
to the adult foot. It was all very com-
forting, and people smiled, feeling that
they had really saved something out of
the wreckage of the wettest December in
history. , „ . ,
There’s no better place than Randwick
on a day of sunshine laced with a cool
breeze. The A.J.C. Summer Meeting, and
Tattersall’s meeting last Saturday, rejoiced
in two of the most perfect days this
season. These end-of-the-year meetings
are not parades of fashion’s latest whims,
and on both days the dressing and the
temperature suited each other. The girls
were like bright butterflies in the sun.
Their frocks were cool, crisp and white,
or cool, silken, and printed in gay colors.
Of the white-clad honors go to Sheelagh
Cassidy, trig in white sharkskin suit,
and Margaret Salenger in snowy white
flat crepe. Both girls wore large white
hats, soft with veiling. The Rowland
Smiths were among the noted. A
black silk suit arid a small black hat,
smart with veiling, were worn by Mrs.
Ernest Salenger. Green and poinsettia-
red formed color, composition of Mrs.
Alan Potter’s outfit. Smart racegoers
were Mrs. Strath Playfair and Mrs. E.
Strelitz. Patricia Roach added charm and
blue-and-white checks to Randwick s
Boxing Day.
Women all over Australia, and par-
ticularly the women of the outback of
this State, are mourning the death of
Mrs. Matt Sawyer, of Eulomo, Bethungra
—splendid president of the Country
Women’s Association from 1928 to 1938,
and a foundation member of the associa-
tion. It was for “ardent devotion to the
work of the C.W.A.” that she received
the O.B.E. in 1934 But it was not only
for her activities in regard to the Use
More Wool campaign, the Flying Doctor
Service, and suchlike benefits for the
country people that Mrs. Sawyer was
admired and loved. It was for her ready
sympathy, her unfailing kindness in word
and deed.
They hung out everything but the
mistletoe bough at the Kirribilli Yacht
Squadron on Christmas Eve. Inside the
front door opposite all the steering geat
was a Christmas-tree—not a very grown-
up one, but glittersome with tinsel and
bon-bons, and generally festive. This
was the squadron’s first Christmas party
since 1938, and members and associates
crowded the decks. The ship s chandler
must have been keeping stocks under
the counter for this favorite customer.
There was even a wild rumor that there
was “real” Scotch to be had if you knew
the password.
Everybody drifted to the wide veran-
dahs, and there was so much fun whizzing
around that only an occasional glance
was thrown at the evening—the sulkiest
Christmas Eve on record, all tempera-
mental with rain and lowering cloud.
This party was like a family affair —
the D’Arcy Shelleys were there,’ and stars
of quarter-deck rank. There were
Dr. Furber and his wife and Mr.
and Mrs. Waterman (she has lately been
elected president of the associates). Mrs.
Don Taylor, who has just relinquished
this office, came in black frock and small
upturned black hat, very French-looking.
With her were son Don and his pretty
young wife, her black afternoon frock
gleaming with an outsize in sequinned
butterflies. Lieut.-General Berryman and
his slim wife were in a group with
Admiral Famcomb, Mr. and Mrs. H. J.
Brady, the Major Manley couple, and
the L. A. Robbs. There was quite a
dashing look about Mrs. Brady’s silver-
and-black-striped bolero worn with her
black marquisette afternoon frock.
There was fascination in Mrs. Manley’s
black-and-white composition, fresh from
America. The ankle-length skirt was
black, the blouse of heavy white crepe, its
sequinned design like lightly-feathered
head-dresses. The brilliant Dr. David,
son of Prof. Edgeworth David, the Col-
yers, Nan Kearins, a tiny winged Mercury
curvette of pink feathers on her black
hair, Dr. Adair and Mrs. E. Marriott,
were others seen about the billiard tables
set with an amazing and positively gour-
metish supper. Squadrons secretary,
John Wilkinson, had everything under
control.
Members of the Pathfinders’ Torch
Bearer Group have been working hard
to make a huge success of their dance
at the Coronet, George-street, tonight.
The ballroom will be gaily decorated,
and an entertaining floor show has been
arranged for the New Year’s Eve revel-
lers. Among the artists who have offered
their services are Rosalie Lane, clever
young tap-dancer and entertainer, and
Beryl Kennedy, soprano, who was'
formerly a member of the Pathfinders.
Ambassador for the United States in
Australia Robert Butler, his wife and
daughter Catherine paid a pretty compli-
ment to Australia when they flew back
from America last week to have their
Christmas in Canberra. The happy
memories of Christmas 1946, which they
had spent in Australia, were still with
them. Three or four months ago Mrs.
Butler and Catherine flew to America,
where Catherine during their stay
attended St. Catherine’s school in St.
Paul, Minnesota. Now daughter comes
back to continue her singing lessons with
Roland Foster of the Conservatorium.
Friends and admirers of Myra Demp-
sey, president and founder of the Smil-
ing Thru Club, met together at the Carl-
ton Hotel last week to arrange a testi-
monial for her. The Smiling Thru has
done grand work for the boys of the 113th
A.G.H. in providing parties and enter-
tainment. A committee has been formed
for the Myra Dempsey testimonial, of
which George Nathan is president. Next
meeting will be at the Carlton on January
6 at 11 o’clock.
This pleasant-faced Welsh girl, Maude
Burman, was lately appointed lec-
turer in the Home Science department
of Sydney Technical Colleges. Her chief
responsibility is building up all branches
of the Home Science department with a
view to establishing recognised diploma
courses in household and applied science.
Maude comes with a sheaf of diplomas,
among therm one from the Ministry of
Education in Domestic and Applied
Science ; this she obtained as a graduate
of University College, Cardiff. What she
doesn’t know about dietetics and hygiene
could be put on to a postage stamp,
and she has awards and exhibitions
gained in Birmingham and London. She
has travelled in South Africa and post-
war France. Her professional career has
been concerned particularly with educa-
tion in industry. On this point she grows
almost lyric on Cadbury’s Day Continua-
tion School, where junior employees
must be in attendance one day each week.
Miss Burman was staff lecturer in this
firm for eight years. Norton Trevaire
photo.
Arriving by the Largs Bay as this
Letter goes to press, Mrs. Margaret
Watts, who has been doing welfare work
with the British Red Cross in Berlin.
Mrs. Watts did a grand job as welfare
officer for the N.S.W. Crippled Children’s
Society for about 16 years, and is a recog-
nised personality in this field. From
Sydney she goes to Adelaide to begin a
speaking tour at the request of the British
Cross
The Women Writers had a Christmas
tree and what-all in C.U.S.A. rooms. It
was the only Christmas party this
Letter had been asked to (and there
was a small mountain of invitations) that
sported no vine leaves in its hair. Neither
did it sport tea leaves, though named an
old-fashioned tea-party. You drank coffee
or you went dry. There was a lot of fun
loose in the big lounge, and there was
a small pine-tree that as the :iternoon
wore on fruited with gaudy little paper-
bags. Into these were slipped silver
coins by all-comers. The result was
enough to buy 14 or 15 food parcels for
women writers in England.
From Melbourne
It needed only a fall of snow to make
Melbourne’s a traditional Christmas; but,
though the day was cold and squally, the
spirit of friendliness was warm enough.
Christmas-dinner at Menzies was a gay
and convivial affair topped off with the
singing of hymns and carols. Wing-
Commander Andy Swan, M.8.E., brought
his family, Mrs. Swan in a black crepe
frock and small flower - bedecked hat.
Mrs. E. King wore a lime-green frock
under a deep-brown coat and a natural-
straw hat trimmed with brown and gold
check ribbon ; her daughter Dulcie and
co-hostess Dulcie Fraser entertained a
group of friends, among them Hazel Raff,
whose black suit was worn with a small
hat with a chou of red and green ribbon.
With Dr. Robert Southby were his wife,
daughter Deirdre and two small sons. The
Leith Crows entertained a small party.
With lan Potter were his wife Gwen, who
chose a dusty-pink crepe frock and large
cyclamen straw hat with two large pink
roses set under the brim, and their
small daughter Carolyn. Mrs. Alan
Michaelis (actress Jean Duncan), smart
in a black coat with a silver-fox
collar and large black hat trimmed
with ospreys, had a small party which
included her mother, sister and the two
Michaelis children.
Phyllis, youngest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. C. C. D’Arcy Irvine, of Middle
Park, is greatly in demand as a manne-
quin and photographer’s model. As the
Middle Park Free Kindergarten’s candi-
date in the “Miss Australia” contest she
brought in to the funds of the kinder-
garten over £7OO. Carrying on the good
work, Phyllis has become a member of
the committee formed by Margaret Saker
to produce a “Radio Riot” in the Town
Hall for the funds of the Yering Boys
Home. Phyllis keeps herself in trim with
athletics she is a champion sprinter.
Photo, by John Warlow.
The Christmas parties given by Mr. and
Mrs. James Bowen Pain are always a
highlight of the festive season, but this
year the hostess was missing from her
usual place, having been rushed off
to hospital because of an unruly appen-
dix ; but she insisted that the fun be
not spoiled because of that. The
children’s party and Christmas-tree had
Frank Timson playing Santa Claus. The
big party was held in the Matthew Lang
cellars. Here members of the Ballet
Rambert had their first taste of Aus-
tralian Christmas hospitality. Domenic
and Dolly Modesti were there ; so was
Isobel Green, who came with her
daughter, Mrs. R. McGregor. Prof.
Browne brought his daughter Shirley, who
marries in February. Mrs. Olive Thring,
Frank Cockerton and his petite French
wife, Lilliane Gaye, Dorothy O’Keefe
and Collins Hilton were among those who
wished each other all the best.
The uncertain weather on Boxing Day
sent women to the Caulfield race meet-
ing in tweed suits, wool ensembles and
fur-collared coats. The hat was again
the focal point of fashion, with small
flower-trimmed ones, those of the cart-
wheel type and off-the-face hats in about
equal favor. Trimming ranged from
flowers and feathers to ribbons and veil-
ing. Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of
the V.A.T.C. chairman, hostessed a. be-
fore-the-races luncheon in the committee-
room. Among the guests were Mrs.
George Formby, Mesdames John Cain,
Harold Holt, David Martin (Sydney) and
Ralph Michaelis. Mrs. Robinson wore a
tailored dove-grey lightweight suit and a
small white hat with ruched green ribbon
trimming, the upturned brim finished
with green veiling. Mrs. Formby’s beige
draped morocain frock was worn under
a fingertip-length sable cape; her draped
toque of the same material as her frock
was finished with sable trimming. Mrs.
David Martin’s light-blue moygasel suit
had white lapels and accessories. Mrs.
Cain wore a black suit finished with a
silver-fox Collar over a black moire silk
frock; Mrs. Richard Boyce, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General, put her trust in a
flame-colored raincoat; her small black
hat was edged with faille ribbon. Mrs.
Holt trimmed her blue hat with blue roses
and hydrangeas and wore it with a mist-
blue jacket suit.
A cornflower-blue suit fastened with
silver buttons was worn by Mrs. Petei
Sturdee, with a white coolie straw hat
placed well back on her head. Mrs.
Theo Lewis defied the weather gods in
a beige-pink crepe frock, the skirt featur-
ing unpressed pleats and the new hem-
line ; her hat was a large black lace halo.
Mrs. Ned Holland allied finely-checked
grey tweeds and black felt hat trimmed
with a cluster of emerald-green feathers.
Pauline Ffrench’s suit was turquoise-
blue, her lacy natural-straw hat trimmed
with three lovely cerise roses. Mrs. Mar-
garet Saker’s blue wool suit was also in
turquoise tone, her black straw hat large.
Mrs. Constance Day’s coat of brown
Italian cloth was worn with a brown felt
hat. Mrs. Frank Davies highlighted her
pastel-blue silk jacket suit with a neckline
of pastel-shaded daisies ; her elliptical hat
was of matching blue, threaded with beige
ribbon. Fuchsia was the shade of Shirley
Kinnear’s wool angora jacket suit; her
small crownless honey straw was trimmed
with fuchsias. Pat Alexander’s burnt-
straw hgt was trimmed with field flowers ;
her grey suit was worn over a red-and-
white spotted blouse. A navy jacket suit
and small hat fashioned of navy satin
flowers was the choice of Mrs. Harold
Badger.
Special offering at the Ballet Rambert
was the “Spanish Divertissement,” intro-
duced by the Cadiz Dance. For this Sara
Luzita wore an unusual gown of blue
satin trimmed with black lace and
touches of fur and contrasted with a wide
band of ruby-red velvet at the hem.
Children were especially catered for by
such ballets as “Peter and the Wolf” and.
“Mr. Punch.” Seen enjoying the feast of
dancing were Reta Findlay, whose navy
crepe gown was cut on tailored lines ;
Robin Mackay, whose soft blue gown
featured a draped skirt; her mother, Mrs.
Colin Mackay, who wore a red-and-
white-printed frock and Mrs. Bill Mc-
Dermott, who with her black frock and
silver-fox furs wore an off-the-face black
hat trimmed with a large blue bow across
the brim.
On February 18 wedding-bells will
chime from the Melbourne Grammar
School Chapel for the wedding of Joan
Denyer, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. W.
Denyer, of East St. Kilda, to Jack Morris,
of Sydney. Joan will have Mrs. Eric
Rogers as matron of honor, and after
the wedding a reception will be' held at
the New Alexandra. Joan will make her
home in Sydney.
For the buffet dinner-party given by
Mr. and Mrs. A. Stansen, at their Toorak
home, the hostess wore a ballerina-length
navy lace frock. Professor Nicola Mich-
ailow, the portrait-painter, brought his
daughter Olga. Prof. Chisholm dis-
cussed with his hostess her play “Or
Would You Rather Stay at Home?” This
comedy will be read by the Tin Alley
Players shortly. Attending her first party
since the birth of daughter Perdita Ann
a month ago was Freda Avery, wearing
a pretty pastel-blue frock featuring the
new hem line. Mrs. Gladys Hain, whose
work for the War Nurses’ Memorial
Appeal is well known, was another guest.
Announced on Christmas Day was the
engagement of Helen, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Graham, of Culgoa,
to Dr. Peter Dow, only son of Mr. A.
H. Dow, of East St. Kilda, and the late
Mrs. Dow. Helen is doing her final year
of nursing at the Royal Melbourne
Hospital and her fiance is a resident at
Prince Henry’s Hospital. Wedding will
take place some time next year. Helen
is wearing a lovely cluster of diamonds
in a square setting.
George Formby has had a busy time
since coming to this city. He has been
given a civic reception, and on Christmas
morning he visited a ship at the Victoria
Docks to meet the batch of bonny British
children who will make their home in
this country. Opening night at the Tivoli
was a riot of fun, with George supplying
plenty of song and the audience urging
him on for more. The Lord Mayor, Cr.
Ray Connelly, and the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Bernard Heinze, whose formal bur-
gundy crepe skirt was worn with a white
burgundy flower-printed tunic, brought a
party which included the Lord Mayor s
mother and sister. The Norman Bennetts
were there with Mrs. Herbert Benton.
With the Linton lady was her son Dick.
Dr. Frank May and his wife were among
the applauders. At the end of the show
George brought his wife on stage; her
pale-blue pleated crepe frock was worn
with magnificent diamond ornaments
and a wide black hat trimmed with black
ospreys.


Missing Friend.
IF DOREEN FRANCES McEVOY (nee Hamilton),
age approximately 30-35 years, whose last known
addresses were 62 Warren Road, Marrickville, Syd-
ney, 4 Charles Street, Enmore, Sydney, and Wootoon
Private Hospital Staff, Darling Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney (possibly employed under her maiden name),
would communicate with QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES,
LTD., 395 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, Aus-
tralia, she will hear something to her advantage.
Or anyone knowing her whereabouts kindly com-
municate with Queensland Trustees, Ltd.
THE SERVICE MAN
Unhappy Portents.
Events both in Europe and Asia make
this the most ominous New Year which
has dawned since 1939 —perhaps, in view
of the general exhaustion and turmoil, the
most ominous in modern history. The
Soviet Union is backing the carefully-
organised Communist rebel “Govern-.
ment” of General Markos in Greece,
which has suddenly become militarily
active in the strategic region of Konitza.
Simultaneously a leading Communist
has been appointed Minister of Defence
in Rumania, immediately shouting for an
army to defend the “national sover-
eignty” of that servile helot province of
Soviet Russia. Bulgarian industry has
been nationalised overnight by the blood-
thirsty ruffians who now control it from
Moscow.
Moscow Radio is urging the Jews to
war in Palestine. The terrorists needed no
urging, and the reported joining of the
Haganah with the Irgun Zeumi and the
Stern Gang puts the whole boiling into
one camp and assures continuing war
with the Arabs.
British soldiers and civilians were again
wantonly killed during the week, but the
Attlee Socialist Government takes this
sort of thing in its stride. Moscow Radio
and the Moscow press have developed
an even more sullen, snarling attitude
to the Qutside world than before —both
sound like maniacs hurling menaces
over the asylum wall. Moscow threatens
to withdraw its Embassy staff immediately
from Persia, whose Government refuses
to hand over Persian oil resources and
Persian territory.
In the Far East, plans for a joint offen-
sive by Russia and the Chinese Com-
munists continue to be canvassed. What
has happened in Manchuria is not yet
clearly known as this is written. Some-
thing serious seems imminent, judging by
Qiiang Kai-shek’s proclamation of a
tight blanket censorship.
The Brazilian Embassy staff has
left Moscow —creating the grimly Gil-
bertian situation that the President of
U.N.0., upon which Dr. Evatt tells us
that the peace of the world depends, is
no longer on speaking terms with one of
the Big Four whose veto dominates all
U.N.O. conferences. The staff has
reported that 30,000,000 inhabitants of the
‘‘workers’ paradise” are homeless and
starving.
In Australia the Communists are pre-
ternaturally quiet at the moment, though
there are ominous signs that this quiet-
ness will not continue.
The R.A.A.F.'s Year.
It has been a busy and anxious
twelvemonth for the R.A.A.F.; but that
force, at least, has the advantage in peace-
time that there is always plenty to do in
matters strictly civilian which have very
important reactions in defence.
On the purely military side, the changes
in aircraft and particularly in propulsion
have kept up interest, though as yet
modern aircraft, by the standards of the
outside world, are as strange and un-
familiar to the average Australian airman
as the dodo.
Even in countries which are in the
forefront of development it has been hard
to maintain interest in defensive flying.
This has been shown in the United States,
where the original plans for civilian air-
guard units have had to be cut about
40 per cent.
Even at that the United States has a
large field to play with, and new aircraft
coming on to excite keenness —the
National Air Guard has just bagged 86
P-808 Shooting Stars, jet-fighters of
world-record-breaking vintage.
Our Air Force has no professional,
much less civilian, auxiliary facilities like
that, but at least it has work.
Service Tasks
The R.A.A.F. is handing over the
courier service to Japan which it has
run very satisfactorily. It has been used
extensively for bushfire-spotting, and has
carried out useful experiments with fire-
extinguisher bombs.
It has been on call several times for
rescue and reconnaissance when civilian
aircraft or ships have been in danger or
lost. It has felt its new wings, under
tropical conditions, with the new jet-
fighters and with the Atlas Lincoln. It
joined in carrier exercises with the Royal
Navy, has developed air- and sea-lane
patrols, has equipped the Antarctic ex-
pedition aerially, has cleaned up Morotai
by spray against malaria, and has con-
ducted a private war on grasshoppers
which has provided very valuable data
and may help to rid Australia of the pests.
It has done valuable survey work on
regular mail routes, particularly in estab-
lishing new time records, of \tfhich it pro-
duced three—Sydney to Auckland in
three hours 43 minutes, by Mosquito;
Perth to Melbourne (Mosquito, also) in
five hours; Perth to Sydney (by Lincoln)
in eight hours. Extensive pressure-pattern
flying across Australia has been among
its occupations, and it provided the crew
which carried Field-Marshal Montgomery
during much of his visit.
New Training Scheme
Two most important R.A.A.F. functions
during the year have been concerned with
training and with map-making.
Tne establishment of the Royal Aus-
tralian Flying School at Point Cook was
a great move forward when linked with
the apprentice-training scheme—no less
important than the revolutionising of all-
over flying training through the Central
Flying School, which has been moved
from Point Cook to East Sale.
The C.F.S. is the R.A.A.F.’s university.
“Well, I'd better be going —I can smell something burning .”
urgently needed with the swift arrival
of new techniques and of such problems
as how fast a pilot may be roasted by
sheer friction heat in aircraft of over-
-600-m.p.h. class.
The school will be responsible not only
for setting standards both in flying and
in training, but for the dissemination of
new data and the standardisation of tech-
niques throughout the service.
All flying instructors will be trained
at C.F.S., which will also test and rate
pilots periodically, its work beginning
with an “all-through” flying instructors’
course, and training of pilots upon a new
basis which will allow of a trainee carry-
ing right through to qualification on one
station.
A new R.A.A.F. Training Director,
Group - Captain F. Headlam, was
appointed early this month, after he had
completed a course at the R.A.F. Staff
College. He is a young, keen officer, who
joined the service in 1934.
Survey Work '
In the past year or so, the R.A.A.F.
has done more towards the accurate
mapping of strategic areas in the Com-
monwealth than was done in decades.
A special Mosquito Survey Squadron
attends to this job. Its programme in-
volves, at present, about 25,000 miles of
flying and the taking of thousands of
negatives per month.
Much of this work has been linked with
industrial development. One recent
achievement was the survey of 13,500
square miles, an area a third as big again
as Palestine, in the Callide and Blair Athol
districts of Queensland, mainly with a
view to determining the best avenues of
railway access to those important coal-
fields.
On the Barkly Tableland, in the
Northern Territory, along with the
Tennant Creek mineral area, the photo-
graphing of 113,600 square miles, equal
to twice the area of England and Wales,
has been completed. Flight lines were
made across the Barkly area to facilitate
geological and soil surveys.
In Westralia work on 25,000 square
miles of Noonkambah, ML Anderson,
Mt. Ramsay, La Grange, Marble Bar-
Pilbara and Hammersley Range areas was
finished. Queensland coastal tourist
beaches, from Bribie to the border, were
mapped from the air.
Next year’s jobs include extensive
water-conservation and irrigation surveys
in N. S. Wales, following on the Hunter
River mapping which i§ under way
nearly finished as this is written. Other
districts on the list are Lake Frome in
S. Australia, the Cloncurry-Leichhardtj
mineral belt, one of the richest and!
roughest on the continent, large sections
of Westralia and the N.T. covering the
Katherine, Victoria River, Ord River and
Derby.
With very little fuss 701,000 out of
the Commonwealth’s 2,974,581 square
miles has been covered and photographed
by the Survey Squadron.
Recruiting
With such tasks in view it is not sur-
prising that recruiting is better than in
other services, and that the three selection
boards have had a busy month in De-
cember choosing entries for cadetships,
apprenticeships and n.c.o. air-crews.
The boards include a Royal Air College
Selection Board: Air-Vice-Marshal J. E.
Hewitt, 0.8. E., and Air-Commodore V. E.
Hancock, 0.8. E., D.F.C., Commandant of
the college. The apprentices are chosen
by Air-Commodore H. A. Austin, C.8.E.,
Group-Captain J. W. C. Black, Wing-
Commander J. E. Reynolds and
Squadron-Leader J. S. Needham. Air-
crew selection falls to the lot of Air-
Commodore E. G. Knox-Knight, 0.8. E.,
Wing-Commander C. F. Reid, D.F.C.,
and Squadron-Leader W. D. Hardy.
Nine hundred and twenty applications
broke down to 108 for cadetships, 327 for
apprenticeships and 485 for n.c.o. rating
—these last including 130 already in the
service. Pre-selection narrowed them to
49 prospective cadets, 208 prospective
apprentices and 235 for air-crew n.c.os.
The standards are rigorous. The
moral, physical and mental capacity of
each individual applicant is carefully
tested, along with educational, racial and
trade-experience qualifications, after
which candidates are subjected to a rigid
medical examination and to an aptitude
test, and go through the ordeal of inter-
view by the relevant selection board.
All candidates who live away from
capital cities have their fares paid to and
from the examining centre when coming
up for consideration, and apprenticeship
applicants are provided with accommo-
dation during their tests.
By the time this is printed most of
them will have a good idea of what their
fate is to be.
And, wherever possible, schoolboys are
being stimulated to enthusiasm for the
operations of the service. Such engage-
ments are laid down as that arranged in
the Werribee Ranges early in the month,
when 47 Melbourne schools and colleges
were asked each to send a master and five
boys to attend a demonstration which
included rocket attacks, strafing, skip-
bombing, fire- and dive-bombing and
smoke-laying by Mustangs, and spotting
by the little Austers.
Why Not the Glicfers?
It seems a pity that the R.A.A.F. does
not also take the gliding clubs more
closely under its wings. The hardy en-
trepreneurs of the glider were the back-
bone of the German Luftwaffe, and of
early-Australian flying.
They battled along through the war,
with little equipment and less money, in
various capitals, from which their clubs
are now spreading, under the drive of
such enthusiasts as Duckworth and Wag-
horn. There are now many clubs operat-
ing, including a very live one at Can-
berra, in which Gurth Kimber, Joint
Official Secretary to the British High
Commissioner, is a mainstay. He recently
found, according to official report, that
over the City of Hot Air he had “no diffi-
culty in maintaining a height of 5000 ft.
(to the refrain of Silver C and no baro-
graph!),” though the Canberra Gliding
Club’s detective system is apparently not
so good as its flying, since it could not
discover where the thermal lift was com-
ing from.
Young experimenters of the type of the
one who recently “got picked up by a
cloud at 800 ft., and before he knew what
had happened found himself at 2000 ft.,
uncertain why,” should be meat and
drink to a fighting service;
United Service Institutions.
The N. S. Wales United Service Institu-
tion —doyen of such bodies in Australia
—celebrated its pre-golden jubilee year
by doubling its membership and con-
siderably widening its activities.
The mother of all United Service In-
stitutions is the British Royal U. 5.1.,
which is the envy of all its little sisters of
the Commonwealths and Dominions, by
reason of the fact that it has allotted
to it as H.Q. the Old Banqueting Hall
in Whitehall, from a window of which
Charles I stepped to execution.
It has a fine library and museum and
the British Government established, in
regard to it, a precedent which has been
followed in all other parts of the British
Commonwealth and colonies beyond the
seas in which United Service institutions
flourish. The Government subsidises its
activities as an adjunct to the develop-
ment of the professions of defence.
The objectives of United Service in-
stitutions are to “promote art, science and
literature in the Services,” and member-
ship is open to anybody who “holds or
has held an officer’s commission in His
Majesty’s Forces.”
Membership fees are graduated accord-
ing to rank —in N. S. Wales they range
from £1 Is. for commanders in the Navy,
lieutenant - colonels and wing - com-
manders and higher ranks down to 10s.
for lieutenants.
The activities of the N. S. Wales institu-
tion are based upon the maintenance and
development of an extensive library which
now owns about 17,000 books and maga-
zines. The library Committee adds to
them considerably every month. They
include all the latest technical, military,
and naval journals from overseas,
geographical magazines and the most
modern textbooks on service matters,
besides a comprehensive fiction library,
kept up to date for the benefit of members
and their families. Each member is
allowed to take out two books at a time
and hold them for a fortnight. Country
members may receive their issues by
mail.
There is a monthly luncheon at which
some distinguished visitor, military or
otherwise, delivers a talk on a subject of
importance to defence. Naturally re-
porters are not present on all of these
occasions. And there is a monthly
journal containing notes from the ser-
vices and articles and news of general
military interest.
Regular evening lectures are being
developed on a more free-and-easy basis
than the luncheons, and various social
functions are held from time to time. A
public-speaking class is in being and a
rifle club holds fortnightly fixtures.
Generally speaking the work of the
institutions is—in N. S. Wales at any
rate —being closely related to the per-
manent military forces, whose officers are
members almost to a man, and particu-
larly to the enthusiastic operations of
the reserve of officers, a very active
military body in Sydney—it is normal to
find 250 to 300 attending the monthly
lectures at the barracks.
With the establishment of citizen train-
ing next year, the United Service institu-
tions will assume a new importance as a
focal point and common meeting ground
for officers interested in the military,
naval and air sciences.
A drive for membership in N. S.
Wales is to be carried on with a view
to securing that the influence of the
institution is applied as widely and as
usefully as possible.
The president in N. S. Wales is Lieuten-
ant-General F. H. Berryman, C. 8.,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., G.O.C. Eastern Com-
mand. The honorary secretary is Colonel
R. W. Savage, 0.8. E.


We are almost
Sherlock Holmesian
&
%
If you were to “nose” around in the bins of engine parts
as they’re delivered to the Inspection Department at our
works) pick out one or another and put it through the
strictest tests, you would not find the proverbial hair s-
breadth (or even less) variance from the infinitesimal
tolerances demanded by our standards of manufacture.
Our Inspectors are almost “Sherlock Holmesian” in
the way they examine every part before it is on
to the Sub-assembly Department. “Trouble-shooting” at
this stage prevents trouble later on.
This critical outlook pays big dividends to users—
dividends of deep satisfaction—a guarantee which we
give with every engine we build.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.,
Frazer House. 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
I
; i i IWI \mmu
Precision Built ENGINES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates
IL-38-16
No. 124 of Series
Cleaning Fluids. . .
ft’"’*'
MOST of the household cleaners used for remov-
ing “spots” from clothes contain either trichlor-
ethylene or carbon tetrachloride. Both these
chemicals are non-inflammable liquids which have
the property of being able to dissolve gnease almost
instantaneously. When a dirty mark is rubbed with
a soft cloth moistened with one of these fluids, any
grease present is dissolved, dirt and dust particles
are loosened and the stain disappears, the dirt
being transferred to the cleaning cloth or on to a
clean blotting paper held beneath the fabric. The
fluid itself quickly evaporates leaving the fabric dry.
Both chemicals are used in commercial as well as
domestic dry cleaning and have important uses in
industry. Trichlorethylene, for example, is used in
the engineering trades for the degreasing and
cleansing of metals; and carbon tetrachloride in a
certain type of fire extinguisher. Both
are manufactured in huge quantities by
the British chemical industry which is
also constantly improving methods for
their use.
1C
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOU SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILLRUM.
There was racing at Randwick both on
Friday (A.J.C.) and .Saturday (Tattersall’s), with
the main events the Summer Cup and the Car-
rington Stakes respectively. On Friday a crowd
far in excess of official expectations was lelt
lamenting by a succession of long-piiced win-
ners, but on Saturday a more comfortable mob
was treated to a few successful favorites.
The Summer Cup went to Silent (F. Walker),
starting at 25 to 1 and getting there narrowly
from Sweet Chime and Monsoon. • Sweet Chime
finished on with far more dash than she has
shown in other recent runs to get within a
neck of the winner, with Monsoon close.
Silent, a six-year-old brown gelding by Talk-
ing, must be partial to conditions at this time
of the year. At the same meeting last year
he won the nine-furlongs A.J.C. Handicap;
this year it went to Piccolo (E. Doon), with
Homeleigh Dick and Johnny Zero in the places.
The result of the mile Mersey Stakes for
three-year-old fillies was a foregone conclusion
with the outstanding Nizam’s Ring (E. Swinton)
opposed by only four others at level weights.
The bookies’ offers to “take 7 to 4” seemed
generous. Second-last round the turn, the
game little grey scooted home in her usual
style to down Shading by three lengths.
A particularly interesting race was the De-
cember Stakes for two-year-olds, bringing to-
gether 10 youngsters, seven of them good
winners. The Gimcrack and Kirkham Stakes
winner Midwise, with a penalty carried 8.10,
at which she was conceding the colts 51b. and
the fillies 101 b. That, plus possibly the effects
of her strenuous Kirkham effort, proved too
much for the Midstream filly, who finished
almost last after setting a cracking pace. The
Felcrag filly Silverfel (A. Ward) just lasted it
out to down Dynamite by a head; consistent
Grey Nurse a close third. Silverfel was receiv-
ing 51b. from Dynamite, who looks good.
Another particularly likely-looking youngster
was seen in Newborough (F. Walker) winning
the Summer Nursery at his first start. Though
he beat nothing of much account, Bonnie Prince
being second for the third time from as maty
starts, Newborough is a colt of striking appear-
ance and won in impressive fashion. He
started at 66 to 1, but it will be very surprising
if he ever goes out at those odds again. By
Bernborough’s sire Emb'orough,' he’s out of the
Fortafix mare New Girl, dam of Triggerman
and the Q.T.C. Derby winner Te Tana.
The Carrington was an open betting race:
equal favorites Gay King and Beau Robert at
fives, and altogether seven of the 10 runners
at under double-figure odds. The success of
Star Vife (E. Doon) at 15 to 1 was a great
result for the books, the Melfort horse just
pipping Beau Robert, with Mine Host third.
Mine Host, a three-year-old Ajax colt still
eligible for restricted company, ran a fine
race.
The photo .-finish gear received a bad adver-
tisement when the fancied trio Except (G.
Moore), I Believe (W. Cook) and Caribbean
hit the line together in the Encourage. After
inspecting the rush-produced print which he
gets, the judge signalled a deadheat, with
Caribbean a long head away third. Bets were
settled on that result, but when, as is the
custom, prints were displayed at various points
it didn’t take the crowd long to observe that
Except had actually won, if only by a whisker.
No doubt backers of either horse would have
been content to settle for a deadheat before
the official result was signalled, but if the camera
is to be used to make these split-hair decisions
there should be no room for such an error.
In Melbourne, too, the four-footed friend
was in action both on Friday and Saturday.
Encouraged by a string of favorable results
at Caulfield on Boxing Day, a crowd of 23,000
turned up at Mentone —an all-time record for
that course.
At the Caulfiejd fixture River Hero provided
a diversion by literally dropping his bundle in
the six-furlongs Christmas Handicap. When
just commencing a powerful run which looked
like taking him to victory some part of his
gear gave, and away went saddlecloth, padding
and lead-bag; his rider, G. Bougoure, man-
aged to stay aboard and, without being able
to ride the horse out, finished second behind
Law List. Of course Bougoure weighed in on
"I'll have a crack at that cove."
the light side, the places going to Gay Queen
and Heather Rose.
Law List is by Law Maker, also successfully
represented by Iffigar (H. Badger) in the
Juvenile, for which he started an odds-on
favorite and scored well from Lady Sinclair
and One Up. That was Badger’s only winner
on the day, but he was near the money m
nearly every event. He took second place
on Gay Queen in the sprint, on Ellipsis was
just nutted' by Arduli (E, Preston) in the 12-
furlongs Hopetoun Handicap, and again on
Monte Cassino was beaten a half-head by
Wangara (B. Eames) in the mile Tooronga
Handicap.
Law Maker had yet another winner, and
another favorite at that, at the Mentone meet-
ing, when Law Case (W. Williamson) had a
runaway win from Yadava and The Gaffer in
the first Rosebud Handicap for three- and four-
year-olds. Law Case won by four lengths
and clocked 1.26* for the seven fur-
longs. In similar time the Dhoti colt Nilam
(W. Williamson) defeated Gilwell and Spear-
flame in the second division. Unusual for a
Dhoti in being a grey, Nilam has all the marks
of a topnotcher, but has given connections a
lot of trouble and done little racing.
If not actually of voting age the Brueghel
horse Sunrocks (W. A. Smith) is at least rising
10 and has a yearling son running round at
■home, all of which adds to the merit of his
effort in downing Bray Law and Lunar Lynx
over a mile in the Talgarno Welter. The old
fellow started at 14 to 1 and had a comfortable
win.
Provincial performer Sanctus, a five-year-old
Parenthesis gelding trained by T. Lewis, gave
Purtell an armchair ride in the Summer Handi-
cap over 13 furlongs. In a perfect position
and travelling freely, he looked the winner half
a mile from home and was too good for Real
Guy and Beau Juste at the finish. Sanctus
should have a good show in the Bagot Handi-
cap.
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Nursery: Newborough, 1; Huarette, 2; Blue
Diamond, 3. New Year’s Gift: Shading, 1;
Coronation Lad, 2; Except, 3. Trial Stakes:
Bluesaic, 1; Caribbean, 2; Laurette, 3. High-
weight : Glencrag, 1; Souvenir, 2; Prince
Brueghel, 3. Tattersall’s Cup: Skip Bomber,
1; Sweet Chime, 2; Monsoon, 3. Alfred Hill
Handicap: Geronimo, 1; Edinburgh, 2; Prince
Mohican, 3.
The Auckland Cup l —n6w, with increased
prizemoney, the richest race run in Australasia
—produced an unusual result on Boxing Day.
Howe was first past the post, but connections
of the pair behind him, Balgowan and King’s
Ransom, protested and both protests were
upheld. The result: Balgowan, 1; King’s
Ransom, 2; Howe, 3; Indian Gold, 4.
* * * *
Indian .picnic:
The Indian tourers spent Christmas in a
picnic atmosphere round about Canberra, with
Government entertainment and curried chicken
of their own cooking for antidote. On Satur-
day they turned out against Southern Districts
and produced a display of the sort of bright
cricket they and the spectators delight in, hitting
up 364 for nine wickets by stumps. Sen scored
93, the turbaned Rai Singh 71, Hazare 69. Slow
spin bowler Lear bagged 4 for 94.
Having put the solid score of 509 on the
board, N.S.W. ended up with an easy nine-
wickets win over S.A. in Sheffield Shield at
Adelaide. Wicketkeeper Saggers batted well
for 90 towards the end of the N.S.W. innings;
Ridings scored 108 of S.A.’s first-innings 352.
Johnston (N.S.W.) had the best bag of wickets:
7 for 126.
The Victorian-Queensland Shield match hav-
ing been washed out by rain (Vic. 412; Q.
5 for 144; drawn game), the fairly strong
N.S.W. bowling routed the Victorians off their
own cabbage-patch for 130. That occupied
145 minutes; then, in the N.S.W. innings, Barnes
stayed there for 6 hours 47 minutes patting up
141 not out! The crowd of 21,000 liked
neither Barnes’s nor the combined N.S.W.
Saturday performance of 238 for 4 wickets:
cricket at its dullest. Whether any player’s de-
liberate stodginess and the paying crowd’s resent-
ment are things selectors can ignore seems very
doubtful. The N.S.W. tally at stumps was 381
for 6. All manner of bowlers get a better
“press” than Toshack (N.S.W.), but it’s Toshack
gets the wickets: he bagged 6 of the Victorians
for 38.
Queensland, moving over to Adelaide, started
well in their Shield bid against S.A. (mainly
Morris, 96), but they crashed badly to be all
out for 248; S.A. then hitting up 490,
James (210) and Craig (116) making a second-
wicket stand of 232. For-Q. Johnson bagged
7 for 114, the best innings effort in the Shield
this season. Q. started its second knock on
Saturday with 2 down for 101.
# * * *
London Counties downed the Wallabies 14-8.
All the English points were scored in the first
half, during which the Wallabies played very
sluggishly. A Christmas dinner has been
named as the villain of the piece, but more
likely the Australians, with practically two play-
ing seasons behind them, are a bit stale. De-
* spite this disability, common to all touring
teams, they seem to have a good chance of
beating England in the Test.
* * * *
Sydneysiders have never seen anything on
their Harbor more magnificent than thp spec-
tacle on Boxing Day, when, escorted by hun-
dreds of sailing and motor craft and fare-
welled from every vantage point on land by
thousands of onlookers, the 28 yachts in the
Sydney-Hobart race went away to the Heads
under flying canvas. A blue-and-gold day
as setting for a scene of sparkle and glamor
that stilled, rather than stirred, the watching
thousands. .s the sails turned through the
Heads the crowds finned to their holiday,
maybe having known the feelings that have
moved the sea poets through all the ages.
* * * *
Australia is threatened with an invasion by
the Yank team of pro. pill-bashers of which
Pails is a member. Pails and Kramer made
their —er —debut as professionals at Madison
Square Garden over Christmas, Pails beating
Segura and Kramer going down to Riggs.
Something must have gone wrong with the
works in the Kramer-Riggs match; for a newly-
turned pro. to lose his first match is tanta-
mount to a visiting mat-mauler losing his first
bout in Australia, and that’s never been heard
of.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Scot”: We were talking about the
heaviest bullock we had heard of, and
Bert Crouch reckoned that a Monkiara
beast was only 31b. short of a ton.
O’Keefe said, *“I knew of a heavier
bullock that that. We brought him in*
from the Territory with a mob, and when
we hit the Diamantina stony country his
feet went and we killed him for beef and
cut 30 bags of meat off him. Of course,
we didn’t have scales to weigh him, but
30 bags of beef takes a lot of beating.
As! a matter of fact, we left one of his
kidney-fats behind and when it melted in
the sun the fat ran the Diamantina for
ten miles.”
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: The active, smooth-skinned
and shiny little skink lizard, found under
stones and bark and seen racing around
in pursuit of flies on a sun-warmed rock,
doesn’t look like a pirate, but he is. Find
a trail of meat-ants passing close to rocks
which shelter a few skinks, sit down and
keep quite still. After a time you’ll see
a skink come down to a spot a few
inches from the ant trail and “freeze,”
his beady eyes on the ant traffic. Sooner
or later an ant will come along bearing
in her jaws an insect of some kind —fly or
dead bee. The skink fixes its eyes on
that ant, waits for the distance to shorten,
then with a swift dart snatches the prize
from the ant’s jaws, swallows it in a
flash and retreats. When the scurry on
the ant trail has subsided it comes back
and takes up its position again, with a
one-born-a-minute air, jvaiting for the
next mug.
“Narrin”: Those “reptilian ipatrons”
(B. 19/11/’47) are, by human standards,
abandoned females. They first start to
“think of little garments” and later, as
an afterthought, of getting married.
Which is why you see, about the begin-
ning of December, so many lizards about
in their wedding finery. Particularly
noticeable round this S.A. district are a
couple of members of the Sphenomorphus
tribe. At any time they look as though
theyJve had a coat of fresh duco. Now
their burnished bodies flash back the sun-
light, in glowing brown and bronze. Each
black stripe on their backs is a shining
black, edged with a faintly cream-tinted
white, and the creamy-white mottlings
along their flanks look like tiny clusters
of flowers. The “dragons,” too, dress up.
The old Jewie decorates his dull-brown
back with splashes of yellow and orange.
But, perhaps, most startling is the change
in the little “earless dragon.” Normally
this little lizard is a dull reddish color
that renders him invisible among the
gibbers when at rest. Lately both sexes
have acquired patches of sulphur-yellow
behind their non-existent ears, and a male
I saw yesterday was, in addition, dressed
in a shocking pink coat that fairly
dazzled the eyes.
* * * *
“Zake”: Toby had been fishing for
eels from the river bank from just after,
dark till midnight, and as he unhooked
the slimies he dumped them into an old
barrel, which at the finish of his angling
he half-filled with water to keep his catch
alive. Next morning when he got up He
tipped the barrel up, and a very-much-
alive sft. black snake bounced about
among a few live and a number of dead
eels. Toby grabbed a waddy and smote
Joe between where its shoulder-blades
should have been. Then he tossed the
lethal weapon away, calmly regarded the
serpent and said, “So you’re the swine
that got me line in a bunch o’ grapes
when I was takin’ y’ orf last night—
well, that’s what y’ get for not stickin’
around in y’r nacheral element, see?”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Met some Yanks in the
top end of W.A. who knew how to deal
with gropers. They went out in a motor-
launch, the engine of which had been
fitted with a power take-off to drive a
small winch; the launch had a sheave
fitted to a short staff projecting over
the stern. Their line was the thin
but marvellously-strong steel cable used
for the controls of planes. The hook
baited, they would cruise along the edge
of the reef, dropping the line in every
likely spot. When a groper was hooked
it would at once dart back into its cave
and hump its back. But that didn’t
worry the Yanks ; the little winch would
start to whine and, as one of them put
it, “Either this boat goes under, the reef
comes up or the groper comes out.”
While I was with them it was always the
groper that yielded, though some of the
big fish had deep grooves scored into
their backs where the coral had cut them.
A Tommy-gun burst in the head would
settle them and the hook would be cut
out of the jaw with a sharp machete.
Some landed weighed up to 400 pounds.
V * * *
“B. A. Ker”: It was a battle of four
against one —and that one younger and
smaller than any of his assailants. In a
desperate flurry he went down, with the
cowardly four pushing one another aside
in their eagerness to get at the small
body squirming in the dust. Suddenly
the youngster emerged from the melee,
dusty, dishevelled but on his feet facing
the attackers. The first came in—and met
a stinger that stopped him dead. Another
made a dive, but hesitated just out of
range. From behind a third attacked,
“I'd like to know how you Mounties ALWAYS get your man!"
engaged in a brief sortie and scrambled
away. His mate took up the offensive
and was getting the worst of the argu-
ment when the other three regained
courage. Wheeling from one attacker to
another, lunging, feinting, defending, the
heroic victim held his own for a really
creditable time before he was' bowled
over in # the dust again. Then I inter-
vened. In a fraction of time assailants
and assailed had vanished, leaving me
with a vague impression that one of the
bullies had shot through an adjacent open
door. An hour later, the wireless having
developed a distortion, I pulled the
cabinet away from the wall for inspec-
tion purposes. No examination was
needed —there sat the erstwhile basher:
the most bewildered sparrow that ever
took refuge amongst the countless wires
that make up a wireless set.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Across the watercourse
flats, where red drift-sand lightly blankets
the hard clay, there are great swathes of
green saffron thistles. Brought in origin-
ally, according to tradition, with horse-
feed from the farming country, this spiky
pest makes horsetailing on foot a minor
hades. Merely to brush a plant is to have
a spine run into your leg, and the punc-
tures ache for an'hour or so afterwards.
But other animals have a different
opinion of the thistle. Wherever the sand
has packed into a tiny hillock in the lee
of a bush there are the holes of mice who
appreciate both the bountiful harvest of
seed and the spiny fence that keeps large
animals away. The thistle patches soon
become infested with the murines, and
that is why one can see, every morning,
the white waistcoats and cinnamon backs
of a pair or two of kestrels glancing in
the sunlight as they scythe around in the
air. Ann it is the reason also why a
thistle flat is a certain place to find a
brown snake out hunting before the
morning warms up too much. Joe cruises
around until he finds a mouse-hole, en-
larges it, scoffs the inhabitants and takes
over their home. Next time he’s hungry
he wanders off and finds another family,
feed and flat, which is ope way of over-
coming the housing shortage. The fact
that the snake hunts those spiny jungles
makes a fool of a station overseer I once
knew, and of the horsehair rope he put
round his nap at night on the theory that
no snake would cross its bristling width.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Although the oyster
and the edible mussel were absent from
estuaries such as that of the Swan (B.
12/11/’47), thosS same waters were, and
are, crowded with mussels the size of a
sixpence, edible enough for anyone with
patience and a pin. W.A. freshwaters
were not, however, devoid of the mussel;
most pools and creeks from Geraldton
to the Leeuwin were fairly well supplied.
In ofte of • his explorations George
Grey was preserved from starvation by
a lucky find of these bivalves. In 1839,
after losing boats and equipment just
south of Shark Bay, Grey with his party
of 12 was forced to march overland
through then-unknown country, hoping to
reach Perth. With all food gone and
everyone except himself and a black
knocked out, Grey and the native set
off on a final 100-mile dash for the Swan,
hoping to bring help. With the hatchet
lost, so that even the tops of blackboy-
trees were no longer available as food,
Grey was all but out with starvation
when Kaiber tracked out a pool, from
which he dredged up a meal of mussels.
Cooked on the coals the molluscs renewed
Grey’s strength. But the black would
have none; the freshwater mussel was
his totem, and to dine on them, even in
extremity, would be equivalent to eating
his mother.
* * * *
“Flathead” on edible hailstones:
When a recent thunderstorm left a Sydney
suburban street covered with small hopping
frogs some scientific pundits countered specu-
lations that they had fallen with the rain with
the fact that no frogs were found on roof-tops,
saying that they must have been hiding in
crevices. This was logical enough, but the wise-
heads erred when they went on to declare that
“there has never been a proven case of frogs
falling in rain.” During monsoon weather falling
frogs are common in India. It is on record
that in 1905 a clergyman in Bengal “filled an
inverted umbrella with small fish, and a few
minutes later reaped a similar harvest of
frogs.” As for falling fish, in Alaska they
go in for whoppers ten-pounders were once
observed flopping down in the grounds
of a university. The explanation given was that
they had been frozen to the surface of the
sea, and later, when this was broken into cakes
by winter pressure, they were torn up by gales
and carried inland.
* * * *
“Bert”: Joe had a big run of mountain
country where some half-wild scrub
cattle put in the summer and were shifted
to the lowlands during the cold weather.
His patch of straggly oats, intended for
winter feed for the one horse and cow
that he left behind with his offsider, was
ready to cut. But the mower shaft was
broken, town was a rough 30 miles away
and rain threatened. “It’s not a crop
you can use a scythe or sickle on,” said
Joe. “There’s only one thing to do —
pull it out by the roots.” This decision
may have been influenced by the fact
that two city brothers and a nephew
were visiting Joe’s place, providing a free
source of manpower. Up and down in
rows his relatives went, squatting on
haunches, pulling a swathe and belting
the handfuls together, swallowing red
dirt, spitting red and getting nostrils
choked with red dust. Every now and
then someone would groan, straighten up
painfully, holding his back and curse the
“Kanaka’s work.” “Never mind,” said
Joe, “we’re saving the crop!” I saw Joe
some time after and asked him how the
animals fared on the stuff. “Wouldn’t
even touch it,” was the reply. “I had to
get some hay out from town for ’em. A
man had all his work for nothin’! ”
He * * *
“Hanko”: It had taken many hours of
Snowflake’s spare time to fashion a
boomerang, and when at last he declared
the weapon completed we all clamored
to have a throw of it. Neither Bailey nor
Little Joe gave much of an exhibition
with the kylie, and then it came Big Joe’s
turn to hurl it. The boomerang leapt
away from Joseph’s hand and slid
through the air like a hunting duck-
hawk. It took a wide sweep around the
meat-house, angled neatly and skimmed
out of sight behind the homestead build-
ings. We were astonished by such an ex-
pert casting ; Big Joe himself seemed
astounded by it—and then came an
anguished squealing: “Hi, whaffor, hi.”
“Cripes,” gasped Little Joe, “it must’ve
laid him out.” Nervously we crept in
the wake of the flying kylie. Wun Sin
was slumped by a tangled mass of pros-
trate climbing beans. “Bean die,” he
wailed. “Bean not glow, bean alleesame
dead.” Big Joe was pale, but he blustered
forward and retrieved the boomerang
from the tangle of greenery. “Only for
them blasted beans,” he growled, “ft
wo*ild’ve come right back into me
flamin’ hand.” We almost believed him.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The Army did
queer things to some men. Its effect on
Bill was to induce in him a hankering to
spread the Gospel. He did a rehab,
course that fitted him for the job, and
accepted a call, via one of the bush
brotherhoods, to Grogan’s Patch. The
inhabitants weren’t particularly religious,
and Bill was losing on points to the
Devil, but part of his complaint was a
total inability to know when he was
licked. One day he invited himself down
to Old Mick’s shanty, arriving just as
the family were sitting down to dinner.
Mick wasn’t strong on etiquette, but a
half-forgotten respect for the cloth
prompted him to ask Bill to stop and
eat. The kids, at first awed, quickly sized
Bill up as an easy mark, , and soon little
Mary gained courage to instruct young
Mick to “Pas's the blanky butter, can’t
y’?” to which young Mick retorted
“Wot’s wrong with y’r arms? Y’ blanky
well paralysed or wot?” As the meal pro-
gressed the conversation deteriorated,
and Mick, after one or two vain attempts
to discipline his brood into unaccustomed
politeness, ventured a half-hearted
apology. “Afraid we’re rather rough an’
ready, Parson,” he explained. “Y’ll
hafter excuse the kids'.” “Aw, don’t
mind me,” Bill answered him. “I don’t
give a damn meself. Only a man oughter
be switched for cornin’ here and makin’
a blanky fool of himself.”
$ ■ $ H*
“Plip”: Alf, the station-master, had
spent the best part of a year secretly mak-
ing a perfectly-scaled model train set for
his youngster, and had frequently claimed
in Stacey’s that he’d spend Christmas
Day “showing the kid how a railway
should be run.” Drugged by the over-
powering pud, however, Alf collared the
settee in his lounge and* could barely
mutter sleepy directions to the lad who
was laying the tracks out on the floor.
As he drowsily watched the boy, Alf
suddenly spotted something in the pattern
of the tracks ; he was down on his knees
in a moment, arranging points and lines,
pushing trucks back and forth. Then,
satisfied, he coiled up on the couch again
and died for the afternoon. When he
reported back at the station after his
holiday Alf was plainly peeved. “You
know,” he snorted, “how, when we get a
lot of traffic, that second line in the shunt-
ing-yards becomes a bottleneck? Well, I
worked it out the other day—had the
whole thing solved on a model. It was
foolproof. Then I had a nap, and when
I woke up I found that me kid had shifted
everything, and I couldn’t remember
where I’d had it. The young devil
reckoned he’d been playin’ with it!”
* * * *
“Betcha”: How do other Aboliars deal
with an outsize attack of thirst —the
genuine sort, that sets in after a pro-
longed period of drought? Cobber of
mine, after a long summer day without
a drink, will tackle nothing but water;
the cooler the better. Diving on the
waterbag, .he pours it down till stopped
by his holding incapacity. On the occa-
sions I get properly dried out, though
almost anything in liquid form goes down
readily nothing appeals like tea. Mak-
ing an enormous billyful, I spill out
four or five cups in a row, and get to
work. The only result is acute discom-
fort, and at length, forced to stop by an
overtaxed stomach, I mooch round with
the gigantic thirst in no way assuaged,
waiting miserably to swallow a few more
cupfuls as soon as that is possible. It
takes several hours, sometimes all night,
and many quarts of liquid, before the
awful craving is satisfied, so if there’s
any quicker way to relief I’d like to
hear it.
HOUSE OF MARTIN.
The door yielded to my touch. This house was
old
Before the roads came by, when the Martin
sons
Disturbed the valley, placid in corn-of-gold,
With notorious loves and hates. They lie
where guns
Spluttered in last anguish on Sanananda;
But warmer than tablet, more reflective than
tongues,
This house lives on (though cat’s-claw grips the
veranda
And strangles the stumps, though the rooms
are empty of songs
And laughter), a memory’s solemn residence
Till its dark woods rot and crumble.
I entered, and swept
The crazy webs like the years away, immense
And tangled where once a lonely woman wept.
I heard her sorrow, and saw threw J i the cracked
pane
Three men riding the wild hills home again.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID H. ROWBOTHAM.


“Bo”: When the big flood came down
at Boobook some of Tarrant’s fences
and Blossom, his champion milker, were
swept away. Tarrant behaved as one
deeply bereaved. A few days later, how-
ever, news came that Blossom had been
found, alive and well, in the fork of a
big gum—the receding waters had left
her high and dry. There Tarrant rushed,
and, his joy as he gazed up at his bovine
goddess was touching to behold. To
Millard’s place he tore, obtained a block-
and-tackle, and with the help of the two
Millard boys succeeded at last in ground-
ing his super lacteal-secreter. Back at the
Millards’ place for a cup of tea, he asked
leave to use their phone ; then he wanted
to know what the “parson bloke’s” num-
ber was at Boobook. Old Millard looked
amazed, for Tarrant had never been re-
garded by the district as a particularly
devout man. “Why, whaddayer want
him for, Ted?” he asked. Tarrant looked
with an air of impatience and astonish-
ment, as at one who has asked an utterly
redundant question. “Why, to arrange a
Thanksgivin’ service, o’ course,” he re-
plied simply.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Away out in western
N.S.W. there’s a long, more or less
straight road that apparently comes from
nowhere and leads to nowhere else (I’ve
heard that if you follow it eastward far
enough you’ll eventually come to a place
called Dandaloo, and westward about
thrice as far you’ll reach the Darling).
Years ago a couple of us were kangaroo-
“Tyres are a bit soft, aren't they ?”
hunting out there, using a mobile camp
mounted on the back-end of a utility-
truck.* This enabled us to get across the
plains in almost any direction and to
camp where we chose. One day we hit
the road and rapidly overtook a man
sitting drowsily in a sulky pulled by a
drowsy horse, while a drowsy dog trotted
drowsily underneath. We waved at him
and turned north. Four or five hours
later we struck that road again, about
20 miles further on, and there was the
sulky, still ambling westward. We shared
a billy of tea with the cove, who confided
that he was “makin’ out west lookin’ for
a drop o’ work.” At noon next day we
crossed the road, still further westward,
and saw the outfit camped under some
needlewood. This meeting and parting
went on for about ten days, both parties
ever bearing westward. We
turned south, short of the Darl-
ing, and headed way down into
the Anabranch country, then
worked eastward to Moulamein
and the Wakool, up through Hay
and Mt. Hope and on to Tulla-
more, and about six weeks later
struck the road again just out of
Trangie. Yes, there was the
sulky with the drowsy horse and
the drowsy dog. “I bin lookin’
for you blokes,” said the driver.
“Where you bin? I bin cornin’
back along the road for ruddy
near a month, askin’ everyone I
see.” “Whatta you want t’ see
us about?” “Aw, it’s too late
now, I s’pose, but there was a
flamin’ big bunch o’ ’roos out
on the flat the day after y’ left.
Pity y’ missed ’em.” And he
clucked to his horse and headed
back into the west.
* # *
“The 0.D.”: Nice little
story, That about the Willy
Wagtail With its nest in
the rafters of a woolshed (B. 17/12/’47),
but I insist that the matter be
reported to the Natural History Society
(ornithological section). Wagtails invari-
ably weave their marvellous little nests
securely to a U-shaped tree-limb hanging
over a waterhole, creek or river, the idea
being that the foliage above hides the
younkers in the open nest from winged
hunters, the slope to the U-bend stops
goannas and cats and the water beneath
prohibits the latter from leaping to the
nest. That wool-presser was mixed up
between wags and swallows.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Stan was the nearest
approach to a cook ever to hold office
in our shearers’ galley. His specialty was
making gingerbread with a flavor that
caused even the goannas to line up out-
side the window in hope of getting a lick
at the bowl. He used to work an intri-
cate design on top of the doughboy—little
circles and criss-crossed lines which, he
assured us, was the absolutely correct
decoration for his product. Just how he
made this pattern remained a mystery
until one day we heard a yell for help
from the cookhouse. We rushed in, to
see steam coming from the cane-chair on
which Stan was squirming. We eventu-
ally prised him apart from the “sod”
which he had taken too soon from the
oven, and on which he had sprinkled in-
sufficient flour before pressing out his
pattern. He left that day, telling us he
had an urgent appointment with a bunion-
pruner somewhere down the line.
*
“Wippegong”: Old Tom had a snug
property and eventually a good brick
home op it; but he had started the hard
way, coming as close to living off
the land as a white man can. When
I knew him a yarn about the bush things
was always fascinating ; his knowledge
was profound, but he looked at all wild
life as possible contents of a simmering
or sizzling pot. He had eaten ’roo,
wallaby, wombat, possum, “porkypine”
and bandicoot; and of birds he merely
required that they were large enough to
pluck. A good shot, there was neverthe-
less no sentiment pr code to his shoot-
ing ; while he could drop a bronzewing
hurtling downwind he would prefer to
shoot it sitting, for his only purpose in
killing anything was to obtain a meal with
the least possible delay and expense.
Once I was foolish enough to question
his assertion that white-winged choughs
make a good pie, and was promptly in-
vited to try it. I thought he’d have a
“Funny cloakroom — hie. No shoap!"
lively hour following that flock till he’d
shot sufficient; but no. Tom merely
waited till the mournful black fowl went
to roost in a yellow-box, bunched on a
branch head-to-tail as is their habit, then
blew the whole colony to glory with one
barrel. As a citizen Tom was highly
respected; as a farmer his was
sought; but as a sportsman I must re-
luctantly place him beside “Horseless
Horseman” (B. 10/12/’47), who regards
as “game-birds” spoonbill, rail, jabiru,
land curlew, Mallee hen, Cape Barren
goose, brolga and nankeen heron—some
of which are rare, some very beautiful,
all of great usefulness and all protected.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: “Salmon Gums’s” distress
at the memory of his failure to shoot
sufficient wedge-tailed eagles to earn a
living (B. 17/12/’47) filled me with un-
holy joy, for I hold that anybody who wil-
fully destroys one of these fine birds
ought to get 12 months without the
option. Oh yes. I’ve heard all the tales
about the terrible destruction they’re
alleged to do among lambs, but in years
moving about the sheep country I’ve yet
to find the man prepared to make a statu-
tory declaration that he saw an eagle take
a live lamb. And if one man, or for that
matter 10 men, could swear to the taking
of 10 lambs, it would be a poor reward
for the average eagle’s work in destroying
rabbits, which in their own way destroy
a thousand times more lambs than
any eagle. Frequent examination of the
bones in and about eagles’ nests and
eyries hasn’t turned up any lamb’s bones,
whereas bunny’s remains are there in
heaps. It’s a safe bet that every time
a wedgy is killed the killer saves the
lives of a thousand rabbits.
* * * *
“Wandana”: A Tasmanian woman
whose husband died some years ago has
his full-length photograph on the mantel-
shelf. The unusual thing about it is that
the photo, was taken in a standing posi-
tion when hubby was in his coffin. In the
Torres Strait islands in the olden days
they didn’t practise the art of photo-
graphy. But there the mummified body
of the husband was set up in the round
leaf-and-grass hut, attached to the centre-
pole, with painted cheeks and pearlshell
eyes. The widow might keep the deceased
within her gaze for three years or so ;
if she desired to re-marry, the mummy
was taken down, the jawbones removed
(they were useful for purposes of barter,
or ritual observances) and she was free
to take a new partner.
m * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “One Christmas-time,”
said Mat, “I hit a one-pub town called
Mullaley, out in the Pilliga scrub, up in
Noo South. There’s a couple o’ young
blokes from out in the scrub spendin’
their Christmas there an’ the publican’s
got his niece there, too. Well, the first
day I drop out o’ the coach an’ walk in
I see the publican holdin’ one of these
blokes back and his missus and the niece
hanging’ on t’ the other one. Seems they
wanted t’ go each other. Well, they
calmed ’em down an’ we had a drink.
After dinner the two blokes sit out on
the verandah talkin’ t’ the girl an’ me an’
the publican sit in the bar an’ talk to the
beer. Presently there’s a sort of riot out-
side, an’ we rushes out. The niece is
screamin’ an’ hangin’ on to one bloke,
while the other bloke’s dancin’ round
an’ shapin’-up. We sort ’em out
an’ calm ’em down again. About
a hour after that, strike me if they ain’t
at it again, only this time the girl an’ her
aunt is hangin’ on to the first bloke an’
it’s the other one doin’ the sparrin’ round.
When we get peace again I foller the
publican into the bar an’ he sighs an*
says, ‘These blokes is wearin’ me down.
It’s bin goin’ on like this for three or four
days.’ ‘You got a car?’ I says. He has,
' so I get him t’ sneak the two wimmen
off in it an’ then I get them two blokes
an’ says t’ them, ‘Righto, there’s nobody
t’ stop y’ now. I’ll see fair play.’ One
of ’em goes round the back an’ gets on a
motor-bike an’ clears out an’ the other
rings up Gunnedah an’ orders a car t’
come an’ get him. Yair, when they had
nobody t’ keep ’em apart the fight fizzled
out of ’em like gas out of a bloated cow
when y’ tap her flank.”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: If Ted Shawn, as sug-
gested by “Craiser” (B. 26/11/’47),
borrows Binghi’s ballet motifs he may
run up against a bluenose censorship
when it comes to writing the scores. Al-
though some of the measures are designed
to inculcate lessons of woodcraft, agri-
culture, hunting or other commendable
knowledge, many of them are purely
Rabelaisian, though their message is
symbolically conveyed. Since the dance
is the abo.’s most popular vehicle for his
frequently obstetrical wit, the possibilities
are alarming, despite the contention of
well-meaning Southerners that the Binghi
cavortings are of Simon purity.
* * * *
“Plop”: The youngster recently startled
the dinner-table by announcing “We had
a lesson on Civic Pride today.” Happily
it turned out that Bogulla’s school was
not including the study of racehorses in
its curriculum ; the teacher had been im-
planting amongst the kids the idea of
beautifying their township. “We should
never let a scrap of paper lie on the foot-
path,” declared young Plop, “but should
pick it up and place it in a suitable
respectacle. And he told us to get out
parents to help by asking the councillors
to have more trees planted and the park
made bigger. He said to really learn
about Civic Pride we must begin at the
school.” “Teacher’s right,” I observed.
“And I’ll help wherever I can.” Never
have I walked into a better-laid trap.
“Well,” continued the young devil, “he
wants us to bring our fathers along to
school on Saturday morning to help him
lay out the new tennis-court.” I wasn’t
the only mug—eight of us slaved in the
ant-bed all day.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: My nomination
as the, oldest Merino in the Common-
wealth goes to “Old Nannie,” a 22-year-
old ewe owned by D. G. Jackson, con-
tract postmaster of Lexton, near Avoca
(Vic.). She was given to him as a day-
old lamb by a passing drover, and, shorn
a week or so ago, the old-timer cut 101 b.
of wool (last year it made 44£d.). The
pet of the post office, Nannie spends her
time getting into all the mischief in the
place and drinking milk by the quart.
Last month, however, she lost her life-
long mate, a 23-year-old ewe who died
14 days after giving birth to a lamb.
Jackson, who has been out shearing for
32 seasons now, reckons the two veterans
are the oldest he’s heard of —and cer-
tainly the most productive. Between
them over the years they have yielded
more than 5001 b. of wool and reared —
odd twins included —43 lambs.
*** * * ,
“Salmon Gums”: “Jock’s” conception
of the Australian bush navvy as a
flannel-clad son of toil swilling sea-water
through the daylight hours and waiting
patiently for sunset before sipping pen-
sively at his ginger ale (B. 26 /11 / ’47) is
touching but inaccurate. In the vast in-
terior of this continent there is a world
unknown to the city-bred, a world from
which the inhabitants sometimes sally
forth, singly, to arouse the curiosity and
enrich the purses of the macadam-
pounding linkers on the fringe of life.
These are a hardy folk, kin to the
dwellers of frozen places, kith of the
desert nomads ; and their hospitality is
boundless as their vistas. So let “Jock”
venture fearlessly among them; let him
take on his right hand a barrel of sea-
water and on his left a cask of brew;
let him place his wares before them and
support his arguments with the eloquence
of a Cicero and the authority of an
amateur medical student; but let him,
when he swoons, lean smartly to his
right, for there will be his only support.
We of the navvy camps, the droving
tracks, the fettlers’ gangs and the tall
timbers know well the tortures of stoker’s
cramp. We have known them in a harder
school than is found in “Jock’s” favorite
fiction. So we know when to add that
pinch of salt to our drinking water to re-
place the salt lost in sweat. But we don’t
smother our flesh in sweat-absorbing gar-
ments. We expose our bodies to the
wind and sun, and our skins are tough
like the cactus and our bellies hard as
the earth. “Jock” may theorise to his
heart’s content and to the joy of a blue-
ribbon audience ; but he may not, un-
challenged, depict the Australian bush-
men as an effeminate by-product of the
cities. Not while one of them can wield
a pen.
GULF OF CARPENTARIA.
I trod that coast, I burned like flames
In a ship’s molten shell, slow-moving,
Where the pearl-hungry fleets went roving,
Where the gaunt captains graved their names.
For Dutch and French and Portuguese
The Gulf rolled guinea-bright at dawning,
The heat near shore like a yellow awning
Flushed to gold the fierce thin trees...
Some men believe in time. Not all;
Some, like the elements, are feeling;
And flesh, or soil, or rock wins healing
From this strange tidal rise and fall.
What did they see and sense, those ones?
Something haunted that eager sailing,
Ambition led, but the smoulder-veiling
Over the spume, aqd terrific suns,
Smell of the tropic salt, and sting
Of exotic juice on their blackened lips—
These were magic. They stared from ships,
Lapped their wines and began to sing.
Many a man can sail the sea,
Plumb the charts, be certain of sounding,
Hard on the gorgeous quarry hounding.*.
But what avails, if eternity
Cannot touch and enchant his soul?
Even a moment’s pang of wonder
Teaches beyond the tidal thunder,
Truth within truth, the expanding whole...
Some men believe in time. Not I;
Instead, perfected, we dared to follow,
The flashing bird in the warm waves’ hollow,
And feel the ceaseless light of sky.
Groote was jewelled against the night,
Noon drew smokes of perfume, shimmer
From sea-crust earth on water-glimmer
And, westward, Arnhem’s fangs were white.
Always the sun was flaming rose,
And the stars of the Gulf were torches stream-
ing ;
And the spirits of men like lovers dreaming
Learned what the great invader knows.
MX.
L. L. WILDE.


SMALL CLIP OR LARGE CLIP...YOU’LL GET THE TOP PRICE!
A.M.L.&F. extends the same service to the "small" man as the "big" man, and no
matter whether your clip is big or small, A.M.L.&F. will dispose of it for you AT
THE TOP PRICE. A.M.L.&F. high standards of valuing, displaying, lotting and
auctioneering are well known by the buyers, and their confident response to the
A.M.L.&F. man's skilled auctioneering technique means YOU get that extra fraction of
a penny per lb. that ensures better averages and returns.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1868.)
4 Rligh Street Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
Al 1.22.107
• • •
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders . . ,
-tew-*
d BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour is purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes: 4058 Melbourne —758 K —712 F 588 Perth.
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL and A CERTAIN
KILLER
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE: MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
v-
■'A
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
m
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all “MARS
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
trom a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Ply. Ltd.
d
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St,, Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI —The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
licensed
manufacturers
in q’l/AND OF
. meehanite
metals
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
More Sheep Per Acre?
“Archaps”: Experiments at the Lawes
Agricultural College, Gatton (Q.), have
shown that a row-cultivated pasture of
Paspalum scrobiculatum will maintain up
to 4£ sheep per acre throughout the year
in good condition, and cost of cultivation
has hot exceeded 6s. per acre per annum.
T. B. Paltridge, C.S.I.R. senior research
officer, is hopeful of eventually being
able to provide an even better winter
pasture for Queensland by combining
“scrobic” with lucerne.
l ln the Lockyer Valley and on the
Darling Downs natural pastures will
carry about one sheep per acre in. a
reasonably good season, with some
supplementary feeding in the form of
cereal crops, but in a bad season the posi-
tion is somewhat critical. This was the
major problem facing Paltridge when he
began his experiments.
The essential value of “scrobic” is that
it maintains its feed value during the
winter months, even when heavily frosted,
and for this reason the grass is thought
to be valuable for all-year grazing.
A pure stand of lucerne could, of
course, provide winter pasture, but
lucerne by itself is not an ideal diet for
animals. Further, on the Darling Downs
its production during the winter months
is very low. By maintaining lucerne in
widely-spaced rows and inter-cultivating,
Paltridge has carried three sheep per acre
continuously, but, if it is to retain its
vigor, lucerne must be spelled periodi-
cally, and its production varies with the
temperature: when soil moisture is re-
duced during the winter months in
Queensland production is at a minimum.
The point about “scrobic” is that it pro-
duces a great bulk of feed in summer,
which can be grazed down in winter at a
uniform intensity without rotational graz-
ing.
If “scrobic” could be combined with
lucerne it should prove a very good winter
pasture, and it is with this end in view
that the experiments are being continued.
It is known now that “scrobic” by itself
will maintain adult sheep as forward
stores, but Paltridge is not satisfied that
it would be adequate for young stock
or for milking cows. The need for a
good winter pasture in Queensland has
long been a pressing problem, and the
C.S.I.R. experiments are being watched
with great interest.
Spray Disposal.
“Graz”: A war-time invention for
creating artificial fog has been imported
from Britain to spray poison over
pastures for grasshopper control. The
apparatus, mounted on a small motor-
truck travelling at two to four mijes an
hour, emits a feather-fine spray which de-
velopes into fog and is carried over
hundreds of square yards by light wind.
One pound of B.H.C. (benzene-hexa-
chloride) is used in each gallon of water,
and three gallons of spray covers one
acre—a far more expeditious method than
sprinkling bran bait.
This new poison is deadly to hoppers
and does not affect stock. T. R. Jones,
stock inspector at Forbes (N.S.W.), re-
ported that in one test 8.H.C.-Xyol
emulsion mixture was sprayed on a 100-
yards wide semicircular patch in front
of swarming hoppers and killed the lot.
The spray is toxic for at least four days.
Jones also had a swarm in a roadside
drain 130 ft. long sprayed with the mix-
ture one evening, and before noon next
day all were dead.
Lackadaisical landholders are largely
responsible for the pest getting out of
hand, and swarms from the next hatching
will devastate pastures over a third of
N. S. Wales unless there is more effec-
tive control. The fairest way would be
for each P.P. board to obtain a fog-
creating machine, and itself take responsi-
“Water about twenty feet down —y" better start diggin .”
bility for treating hopper swarms, each
landholder to pay his share of the costs.
Dairy Sterilising.
“Tech”: Many dairyfarmers confuse
chlorinated powders (B. 3 /12/’47) with
dairy cleansers. It is important that
Cleansing be done in the usual way with
caustic, washing soda or suitable alkali;
then, just before milking, give machines,
buckets and utensils a pre - rinse with
steriliser, carefully following directions.
Save the chlorine solution coming through
the machines and use it for sterilising
udders and teats, also for sterilising the
milker’s hands after stripping. Once the
solution has passed through the machines
they are sterilised, need no further atten-
tion and should be affixed to the cows
without delay.
Chlorinated powders are the gift of
scientific research to dairying and, if
properly used, control bacteria and do
much to prevent the spread of mastitis.
Making Them Lay.
“Johnno”: Hens are said to be cap-
able of laying 600 eggs and no more—
a few the first year, about 350 in the
next three and the rest from the fifth to
hinth years inclusive. By use of stimu-
lating food they can be made to lay the
number of eggs of which they are cap-
able in a much shorter time.
The best food for this is the follow-
ing: To 3gals. of boiling water add ioz.
of common salt, a teaspoonful of cayenne
pepper and 4oz. of lard. Stir until the
pepper has imparted most of its strength
to the water; meantime the salt will
have been dissolved and the lard melted.
While still boiling, stir in a meal made of
oats and corn ground together in equal
proportions until a stiff mush is formed.
Set to cool down to a milk warmth. Be-
fore feeding taste to see that you have
an overdose neither of salt nor pepper
and to prevent the hens being fed a con-
coction not fit to be eaten. Especially
during winter give them, on the days
this mixture is omitted, a |oz. of fresh
meat chopped fine and at all times plenty
of pure water, grain, gravel and lime.
Percherons.
“N’gaduri”: Those remarks on Per-
cherons (B. 10/12/’47) need amplifying.
After 10 years of colt-breaking, and 18
months of it on a Percheron stud, I say
that they are outstandingly the most
tractable of the equine race.
No one would dream of leaving the
breaking of any other breed until the
horse is aged, yet the breeders of Per-
cherons can do it. More, many are not
broken in completely until eight years old.
Percherons are extremely intelligent and
never forget what they have learned. At
four years old our fillies would be handled
and mouthed, at six they were handled
for a time and put into work until they
settled down and went along quietly—a
matter of two or three hours. At eight
years they were put into permanent work
and one could expect no more trouble.
The ungelded colts were left until four
years old, and gave less bother than two-
year-old geldings of any other breed.
Often they were handled only one day
before the S.A. Department of Agricul-
ture inspector went over them for their
first certificates. We haven’t had one
withheld on account of tractability. The
breeding of Percherons has been, and
is, in extremely capable hands in Aus-
tralia. And in a country where mech-
anised farming is calling for a trolly-
horse, a utility-horse, a horse which can
be crossed to get an extremely reliable
and quiet hack, the Percheron is the horse.
Cutting Corrugated Iron.
“Perseverando”: Using snips always
leaves the end splayed and usually cuts
the knuckles. Get a piece of thin steel
wire about 6ft. long. Fasten one end
round a post or tree at ground level.
Attach the other end to a stout stick 9in.
to 12 in. long. Tie this so that the hands
can grasp the stick each side of the wire.
Now lay the wire straight along the
ground. Mark the iron where the cut is
to be and lay it down so that the mark
is directly over the wire. Stand on the
sheet of iron with your back to the post
and your feet placed one each side of
the mark. Seize the stick with both hands
and pull firmly upwards. The wire will
cut the iron like a hot knife going through
butter.
|/\nybody who tries this does so at his
own risk, and is urgently requested to
publish the result—if only to settle the
office sceptics.]
Temporary Pastures.
“Mr.”: Pastures intended for plough-
ing under in a year or two are best sown
with temporary species. W. D. Andrew,
in “Victorian Journal of Agriculture,”
points out that, given reasonable condi-
tions, annual and biennial types will
make rapid growth during the first and
second year. A choice could be made
from alsike, red, crimson, nodding, sub.
and clustered clovers and Wimmera,
Italian and New Zealand ryes and
prairie grass.
In areas) with a rainfall under 20
inches use an early-flowering variety of
sub.-clover such as Dwalganup or
Bacchus Marsh, with Wimmera-rye
grass. In a lime-rich soil barrel medick
could replace the sub.-clover. Sow 21b.
to 31b. per acre of both the clover and
grass seed. In the 20in.-25in. rainfall
zones a mid-s'eason variety of sub.-clover
used with Wimmera rye will develop into
a good temporary pasture. In better
rainfall areas Italian rye, prairie grass,
sub., alsijce and red clovers provide an
excellent sward. Add to any of the above
mixtures a little perennial rye. This will
give useful feed in the autumn when the
annual species are usually going off.
Crop Nutrition.
“Prof”: In recent years our know-
ledge of the nutritional requirements of
plants has increased, and bigger yields
from crops and pastures have resulted
from treatment of certain soil with minor
elements. Many farmers, visualising
greatly increased returns, have spent con-
siderable sums on such fertilisers as
super, plus molybdenum or super, plus
copper and so forth, and have hap-
hazardly broadcast these mixtures without
regard to the actual requirements of the
soil.
Detrimental effects on the chemical and
physical structure of the soil, the retard-
ing of seed germination and actual toxic
effects can occur from the application of
unwanted chemicals. At Werribee (Vic.)
the yield of wheat from plots treated
with 151 b. of copper sulphate per acre


M 3 IA V HUM
if you have a mountain or seaside
block the Hygeia Dissolvenator
will take care of the sewerage
problem for you.
The Hygeia Dissolvenator is a
completely self-contained system,
simple in operation, requiring no
water supply . . . no emptying.
Sewage material is chemically
transformed into a sterile solution
that runs away into the soil. Un-
healthy odours, flies, disease
germs are all banished. Easy to
instal. Write for full illustrated
pamphlet.
HYGEE2I
DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. Pty. Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 20 years
DISTRIBUTORS :
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
Woolworth’s Buildings, Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co.
Ltd., 578 Little Flinders St., Melb.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.
(S. Aust,), 81 Currie St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: B. P. Mclnerney &
Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump out of
Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds of liquid
bile daily or your food doesn’t digest. You
suffer from wind. You get constipated. Your
whole system is poisoned and you feel irritable,
tired and weary and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You must get
at the cause. It takes those good old Carter’s
Little Liver Pills to get those two pounds of bile
working and make you feel “up and up.” Harm*
less, gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills by name.
Stubbornly refuse anything else. 3/- & 1/3.
SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
STOPvoimßupture
Worries/
Mark® local-ion
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance Free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defi-
nitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed
no matter where you
live. Call or send stamp for details. Self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27) 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
LOOK!
Beehive Makers
Wood workers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
The "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
Immediate
Delivery.
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
, eluding saw and planer
blades, £l7/10/-. Also
woodturning lathe outfit,
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
ljin. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, does
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States.
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN DOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP /B
BARKO
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY
The old virtue of
industry and thrift
We live in a period when
the old virtue of industry and
thrift comes in for ridicule.
To-day the gospel is one of
unrestrained spending, but it
will pass away like so many
other false gospels.
Vision, enterprise, hard
work and capital, working to-
gether, have built up the
civilization we enjoy today.
' For 113 years this Bank has
worked in co-operation with the
tens of thousands of men and
businesses big and little
who have done the building.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
Of SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
was half that taken off an untreated plot.
Applications of 561 b. of iron sulphate
and 151 b. of borax in each case reduced
the yield something like five bushels.
According to experiments by the
C.S.I.R. in S.A.’s south-east, on heavy
swamp soils deficient in copper and zinc,
the application of a minor element can
upset the balance between clovers and
grasses in a pasture. With applications
of copper to a Phalaris tuberosa- lucerne
mixture the lucerne was stimulated at the
expense of the Phalaris, while with the
application of zinc the grass dominated.
The only way to determine whether a
certain soil type will respond to one or
other of the minor elements is to experi-
ment on a small scale. Manganese, zinc,
copper and occasionally molybdenum are
the main elements found deficient in Aus-
tralian soil. Get a bag each of the supers
containing these elements and run a strip
of each when sowing a crop or top-
dressing a pasture. Copper and zinc must
be tried together as well as by themselves,
as experiments have shown that some
plants, notably sub. clover, fail to respond
to zinc and zinc-deficient soil if copper is
also in short supply. Any response in
the strip experiment will be clearly evident
and the knowledge gained can be used
to advantage in later seasons.
Seed-bed Diseases.
“Bill C.”: A fairly strong solution of
bluestone and water —lib. of the former
dissolved in 7gals. of water —will rid
beds ready for seeding of the soil fungi
that destroy tiny seedlings (B. 16/4/’47).
The solution must be applied plentifully
enough to saturate the topsoil to a depth
of 6in.; a disadvantage is that this treat-
ment “poisons” the soil for some weeks,
and consequently it is impossible to crop
the land immediately.
Where “damping off,” a fungoid
disease of seedlings, appears in a nursery
bed, mix finely-powdered bluestone two
parts, with fresh powdered ammonium
carbonate 11 parts, and place in a
firmly-stoppered glass jar. Allow to stand
for 36 hours before use. Dissolve loz.
of the mixture in 2gals. water, and water
the beds freely. This is harmless to
seedlings, but destructive to soil fungi.
Water for Cows.
“Hortus”: An average cow will drink
up to 10 gallons a day—a heavily-yield-
ing one far more. Cows in milk require
four times as much water as when they
are dry. Experiments showed that cows
on growing crops and concentrates con-
sumed about 3501 b. of water daily for
each 1001 b. of milk produced. A fair
percentage of it was in the green feed
itself.
In addition to the water actually neces-
sary to produce milk, cows may at times
drink up to 2001 b. of water a day. A
cow’s thirst varies as much as does a
farmer’s. So a heavy milk-yielder may,
on occasions, drink as much as 5501 b. of
water a day. Water the cows in the
morning and late afternoon. The best
milkers will be those on an abundant
water supply.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrr”: Contrary to popular belief,
a horse with a stomachful of wheal
should be allowed to drink as much water
as he can. It helps to wash the un-
digested wheat through, and doesn’t cause
ihe wheat to swell —the digestive juices
have already done that, hence the horse’s
distress. Give 4oz. of bicarb, soda in one
pint of water and, after a short interval,
drench with a purgative, using 4oz. to
Boz. of Epsom salts (according to the
size of the horse) and ioz. of ground
ginger in one pint of water. If necessary
repeat the bicarb, soda dose every three
hours, and prevent the patient from
rolling or there may be complications
with stomach rupture. Feed only a soft
laxative food, i.e., with a liberal quantity
of bran in it, until the tone of the diges-
tive system is restored.
“Myrrhee”:' An iron deficiency in the
diet of young pigs can have serious
results, and is most frequent in pigs con-
fined to floored pens. Symptoms are pale-
ness of the eye membranes, general poor-
ness and increased susceptibility to scours
and pneumonia. Board off a corner of
the pen and fill it with fresh earth.
Sprinkle this with a solution of one table-
spoon of iron sulphate in a half pint of
water. Change the earth every few days.
Another method is to prepare a syrup
made of 2oz. of crude iron sulphate, one
pint of molasses and 1| pints of water.
Smear on the sow’s teats once or twice a
day.
“C.A.A.”: Where a deficiency in the
solids content of milk is noticed feeding
of bran, crushed oats and linseed meal
in a mixture of 1001 b. bran, 1001 b.. oats
and 301 b. of meal at the rate of lib. to
41b. of milk produced will assist in main-
taining the required standard.
“Sundowner”: Following seven-year
tests at Longerenong College, Vic. Depart-
ment of Agriculture has recommended
the new Diadem wheat, yield of which
has proved superior to that of Quadrat
and Ghurka. In all 4000 bushels of seed
was made available to 140 farmers, and
seed may be obtained from them or from
departmental research farms.
“Billjim”: A phenovis or phenzeen
drench is good for worms in cattle. Dose
calves up to six months with \oz.,
heifers up to a year foz. and other stock
loz. three times at intervals of 14 days.
If the worms have been particularly
troublesome it is advisable to drench in
autumn, winter and early spring.
“Girrawheen”: “Smell, taste and feel”
when buying fowl feed is an excellent
motto. A mouldy smelling grain should
never be bought; grain should feel heavy
in the hand, grittiness should be avoided.
Bran should feel silky. All grain and
bran should be pleasant to the taste.
“E.M.R.”: Chopped-up raw onions at
the rate of ylb. per 100 fowls or chicks in
the morning mash, tri-weekly, a pre-
ventive and treatment for roundworms.
“Mr.”: A soil-conservation competi-
tion, the first in Vic.’s Upper Murray
region, will be rhn by Vic. Soil Con-
servation Board early in 1948. The area
embraces the shires of Upper Murray,
Towong, Bright, Oxley, Yackandandah,
Beechworth, Wangaratta, Wodonga, Chil-
tern, Rutherglen and Yarrawonga. En-
tries up to 14/2/’4B to the Board’s office,
175 Collins-street, Melbourne.
“W. Court”: When cleaning up the
weeds and grass in the farm orchard,
never burn the stuff. Instead spread it
out under the trees. The ground is then
kept cool and prevented from packing,
water soaks in much better and the soil
is enriched by the decayed refuse.
“Gip”: Frangipani is a highly-orna-
mental tree, easily grown, thrives where
frosts are not severe, needs almost
no watering or cultivating. Propagate
from cuttings from an old tree —they are
very easy to strike in wet weather.
White is the most common, but pink is
hard to beat for beauty and perfume and,
unlike the white, is not deciduous, pro-
viding shade in hot weather.
“Sarina”: Get the ringbarking done
during the summer months and you’ll
eliminate suckering to a marked extent.
Some trees will always send up suckers,
but winter ringing will usually result in
general suckering. Poisoning, however,
should be done during the winter.


GREATER SPEED • .
GREATER COMFORT
WITH THE
Constellation
Majestic Lockheed Constellation,
swift, powerful and superbly de-
pendable, is now in regular Qantas
Empire Airways service between
England and Australia.
EXTRA CREW.
Only Constellation has a separate oper-
ations station for a Flight Engineer,
giving Captairy and First Officer 60
fewer dials to watch.
LIVING ROOM COMFORT.
Over-stuffed, reclining chairs, indirect
lighting, thick carpeting. Separate
restrooms for men and women.
PRESSURIZED CABIN.
While the plane flies high, the altitude
within the cabin is kept low for maxi-
mum comfort.
LOCKHEED
WORLD LEADER
Now operated by QANTAS
@0
yy
B
[sp|[sM
mm
a
b
yy
14-
Hd
3p
m
yy
yy
T
i-i/iea
All-year- round
COMFORT in your home
N>
V
z
o*%
\
m
■■
i/mii
B. I. SLAGWOOL
IN SUMMER, when temperatures soar, you will
doubly appreciate the cool comfort that B.J.
wool brings to your home. Rooms are 8 to 15
cooler, even on the hottest days. Bedrooms are no
longer like ovens —you sleep soundly, wake
refreshed, feel better and eat better,
because 8.1. SLAGWOOL keeps the heat OUT.
IN WINTER, you will no longer be spending
considerable amounts in keeping the home warm,
if you insulate with 8.1. Slagwool. And what a
difference 8.1. Slagwool makes —it holds the heat
inside the home —all rooms are uniformly comfort-
able —colds are fewer, and the whole family enjoys
better health,
because 8.1. SLAGWOOL keeps the heat IN.
•ulatimt
MANCH O Houie^North
Adelaide; 294 Murray S t ree^ A NN 146 Lichfield Street, Christchurch,
JrJ'PILGRIM, "SheIf House. North Terrace. Adelaide.
T - F p^ N p T p K I' CO LTD aV B7 S Elgle Street. Brisbane. New Zealand Agent:
/ffe WINSTONE LTD.?' Auckland, Wellington. Palmerston N., Christchurch,
Dunedin. BLa2 - 4
SMOKE-OH!
TO the Bestl
With the Bestl
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
v v v 'r
“Seven Langshan hens, 3 years, cock
rooster.” —Suburban paper.
Hen roosters temporarily un-
available.
“Brown striped 3-piece man’s suit, also grey,
£2/10/-.” —Suburban paper.
He’s a tiger for fashion.
“The club got away with a swing.”
—Suburban paper.
Evidently the committee knew the
ropes.
The Dope.
“Acquitted, has wedding plans.”— “Truth.”
His ways are unaccountable ’. He sought
The gift of freedom ; might and main
To dodge a dreary prison cell he fought.
Yet now he craves a ball-and-chain.
Eve.
“Wouldn’t it be dreadful if we were left
to grow and spread without the assurance of
the restraining stays a good corset lays upon
us?” — Woman's paper.
Figuratively speaking, yes.
4* 4* 4* *i*
“Australia has no great satirists.” — “S.M.H.”
Their work won’t stand the acid test.
“The bottles really empty. All you
do is PRETEND to take a dose.”
“Will some reader tell me what is the
correct attitude to adopt when children want
you to buy them everything they see?” m
—“New Idea.
Try a threatening one.
Elegy.
“Following another reduction in its strength,
Britain’s beer is now the weakest in the world.”
Poets in plenty have extolled
The qualities of Britain’s ale ;
A pint of bitter, strong and old
The bards maintain will seldom fail
To make the chicken-hearted bold;
Though since the brew became- “con-
trolled”
Experienced imbibers hold
The stuff would make a hero quail.
And now, in times they call austere,
Til venture to prognosticate
Some full but sober sonneteer
Is getting ready to narrate
The tale of how his country's beer
Declined to something less than “near” —
The cup, in short, that fails to cheer
And likewise to inebriate. A
P. M. LUCK.
An Eye to the Future.
“Why is so much valuable space devoted to
satisfying the childish beliefs of those readers
who think that their lives are influenced by the
stars?” —“New Idea.”
It’s not to pander to the taste
Of every foolish Jill and Cl'ko
That reputable journals waste
Newsprint on Gemini and Leo.
Nor would they risk for empty gain
Man’s satire, and the mirth hilarious
Aroused in thousands who disdain
Their talk of Taurus and Aquarius.
It’s thought of what the future yields
That urges magazines to votive
Space-offerings in astral fields,
In short, my dears, the prophet motive.
D. H. B.
Old Bore’s Almanack for 1948.
JAN.: A farm laborer in Ecuador who
hacked his wife to death with a billhook will
be hanged, and all northern N.S.W. coalminers
will stage a one-day strike in protest at the
“brutal sentence.” Tiles for a Housing Com-
mission home will be delivered before the
foundations are laid, and permission to shift
them to another H.C. job next door, which
has been waiting for tiles for two years, will
be sought by officials;
FEB.: A capital levy of 300 roubles will
be enforced on all U.S.S.R. workers; Moscow
Radio will describe the “jubilant scenes” which
this will evoke among the happy toilers, and!
Molotov will hail the decree as demonstrating
the Soviet’s great internal strength. Combined
women’s organisations will condemn the new
4ft.-diameter hats as an imposition by greedy
manufacturers, and will recommend all mem-
bers to boycott the new fashion. A man will
claim damages from the Sydney Road Transport
Department for allegedly getting borers in his
wooden leg during a five-mile, two-hour journey
in an 1898-model tram.
MAR.: Part of a great Te Deum which
Mozart had to sell for the equivalent of two
dollars will be “swung” into a hit tune by
Manny Snozzleberg and Lou Verngreesi, who
will net 180,000 dollars in one week. Ihe
Pepper Control Board will be split into
two, one board for white pepper and the other
for black, and the total staffs will increase from
24 to 132.
APL.: Mr. Chifley will stagger the House by
admitting he has read a newspaper report ot
a recent celebrated event. At a meeting ot
combined women’s organisations called to pro-
test against the increased price of nutmegs
confusion will be caused as members, all wear-
ing the new 4ft.-diameter flywheel hats, try
to get through the door together. A grey-
hound dog named Speed Up will be entered
for a race on a northern N.S.W. coalfields
track, and a three-day strike will be called at
all lodges as a protest against “this form or
bosses’ propaganda.”
MAY: Hollywood research men will discover
that Falstaff was addicted to crooning to Mrs.
Ford. It will therefore cast Frankie Sinatra
in the role of the fat knight-for its stupendous,
Himalayan super-production of the technicolored
musical, “The Merry Wives of Windsor,” and
its ace gag men will start furiously working
wisecracks about “Lizzie” Ford.
JUNE: A “Labor” stalwart with one of
the biggest s.-p. businesses in Australia will
in a speech condemn the current tendency
among the public to ftout the law. The
columnist of a Sydney daily will tell the joke
about the sagacious dog that was caught
blowing on the forbidden bed he’d been sleep-
ing on to cool it off. The Dean of Canterbury
will adjure the British working naan to demand
the same freedom and wide religious choice as
are enjoyed by workers in Soviet Russia.
JULY: Coincidental with the arrival in
Moscow of an invited British Labor party
goodwill mission, Moscow Radio and press will
launch a violent attack on the “warmongering
beasts Attlee and Bevin and their filthy fol-
lowers.” Melbourne “Terewth” will headline
its five-col. account (with sensational photos)
of the fight during the burial of a romantic
gangster: “Clods Crash on Craniums as
Criminals Clout over Coffin.” A Jacksonville
(Fla.) fisherman who dropped his top set over
the side of his launch when he sneezed will
a week later land a fish which, when opened,
will be found not only to have his top set
but also a lower set which is his exact fit.
AUG.: After a week’s torrential ram
which will add over 90,000 million gallons to
its dams, Sydney Water Board will state that,
though the storage position isn’t exactly grave,
no grounds for optimism exist. “Marshal
Tito, accompanied by his personal “body-
guard” of glamorous girl snipers, none of
whom notched fewer than 450 Germans, will
visit Budapest to conclude a 50-year Pact of
Friendship with Hungary, and will be mistaken
for a cinema-theatre commissionaire. A New-
town (Sydney) girl whose negro boy-friend is
held for extradition on American wife-desertion
charges will be championed by a flapper paper
which will print three-col. photos of the pair
and make a fervent plea to the authorities not
to stand in the way of true love.
SEPT.: A bricklayer’s laborer earning £l4
a week will walk off the job and declare it
“black” because the builder wouldn’t provide
him with a Gladstone bag to carry the bricks
in. The Government Statistician will reveal that
N.S.W. housing authorities have completed 828
houses in the first nine months of the year,
and Mr. McGirr will express confidence that his
electoral promise of 30,000 for the year will
be fulfilled. A famous Soviet scientist will
invent the elastic-side boot. . .
OCT.: At another Big Four Foreign Mini-
sters’ conference Molotov will demand that
Russia be allowed 95 p.c. of all German repara-
tions, on refusal of which he will violently
denounce the three Western Powers for their
“deliberate sabotage of the conference.” After
making rousing speeches at the Four-hour Day
rally at the Sydney Domain, Messrs. Ward and
Calwell will leave in their £l5OO limousines. The
Horatio Nelson Co. will be fined heavily for
tax evasion and the sole proprietor, Mosche
Konckberg, who arrived penniless from Central
Europe two years ago, will denounce British
justice.
NOV.: A man who, on getting an excessive
bill, had his gas meter tested will be advised
that the meter was wrong and that he will get
a refund on his next bill. A suitable plaque
will be erected to commemorate the event. A
drunken hit-run motorist who killed an old
woman will b'e given the option of a £4 fine
or four days by a Sydney magistrate and will
be warned that a further offence may mean
suspension of his licence. Permission will
be granted by the Housing Commission to
use the roofing tiles which were delivered to
a job before the foundation bricks on the job
next door.
DEC.: It will be found that the Housing
Commission house which had been waiting two
years for tiles will need to have the roof
timbers renewed, because of dry rot. The tiles
at the place next door, which were reported
stolen, will be discovered after an accidental
burning of the 6ft. paspalum. The Soviet will
declare confiscated all private bank balances
over 25 roubles, and ■ this will be hailed by
the Australian Communist party as proof that
the U.S.S.R. doesn’t suffer from the recurrent
financial crises which rack capitalist countries.
BO.
Down with Drink!
“In the Baltic, after very carefully checking
some radar observations, Swedish Navy men
dropped grappling irons, gingerly hauled up a
case of fine old brandy.”
The ever-strengthening reliance
Which modern man must put on science
Is pointed when you note how handy
Is radar for locating brandy;
But I’ve a notion that, imbued
With insufficient gratitude
To keep the gift of science and thank it,
The Swedes tossed off the grog and sank
it.
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
41d. per line; all others per line.
Free Speech
There never has been complete freedom
of speech, and there never can be with-
out the gravest danger to any society that
allows it.
For the same reason there cannot be
absolute freedom of anti-social religious
practice. The most tolerant of Govern-
ments would have to suppress a sect like
the Indian Thugs, whose religion enjoined
murder and robbery. Even a religious
body that does not advocate harm to
others may yet be a menace to any com-
munity in which it becomes at all popu-
lar. A sect that held the begetting of
children to be wicked would, in such
an eventuality, have to be banned.
Political speakers or writers who de-
manded the forcible overthrow of the
Government of their country have no
right to expect immunity, nor have those
who preach violence against any section
of the community. If a substantial body
of opinion heeded either, there would be
civil war. Doctrines likely to have bad
moral consequences are in the same
category. Where subversive opinions
attract few, they may be tolerated, but
when they begin to command wide
allegiance, the situation becomes vastly
different. — Lyle (N.S.W.).
“The Bureaucrat”
I hold no brief for the war-time “tem-
porary” Commonwealth employee, but
my work often brings me into contact
with Crown officers who, by long experi-
ence and ability, have become specialists
in their own line of business-—the admini-
stration of the law. They are generally
helpful and co-operative, particularly so
in the country.
If applicants for more Government
benefits are turned down, or get less than
they expect, they generally cry “A
bureaucrat refused me so-and-so.” A
newspaper takes up the story, frequently
without investigation, and the hue and
cry is on.
As an R.S.S.A.I.L.A. sub-branch
officer, I sometimes meet both the
aggrieved and the official. If a misunder-
standing has taken place representations
soon bring about an adjustment. This is
interpreted by the misled as victory over
the bureaucrats. If the case of the
aggrieved is unsound—and believe me
some returned men have cases too weak
to survive investigation—then the bureou-
crats have emerged triumphant, which
was only to be expected.—QXBoB7 (Q.).
Soldier-Settiemsht
Unless the new Victorian Liberal-
Country party Government does some-
thing concrete with soldier-settlement
thousands of young ex-servicemen who
have been seeking blocks for two years
will give up the idea of the land.
Despite its claims during the election
campaign the Cain Government did little
for soldier-settlers except to keep them
waiting. Thousands of men, tired of the
delay, walked out of settlement areas to
seek other careers.
At Cobram, on the edge of the 65,000-
acre Murray Valley soldier-settlement
scheme, not one soldier has been set up
in a new home. In this area^—subdivided
to carry 700 settlers and their families —
there are 100 homes in course of con-
struction. They are only skeletons. Pre-
fabricated walls are lying in the mud
rotting and warping in the alternating
rain and sunshine.
And most of the settlers are recently
married.
The area is one of the finest in Aus-
tralia. It is suitable for dairying, crops
or grazing. In all directions the green
acres are cut with channels and canals —
which, incidentally, are well stocked with
Murray cod. The settlers are assured of
18 inches of water per acre from the
Murray throughout the year. Only 50
blocks were allocated, in the area by the
Cain Government, but allocation is futile
without homes.
The new Victorian Government must
eradicate the “Labor” mess and provide
houses for these veterans. Otherwise
they will be too old and v/eary to tackle
the hard work of farming. —Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
Man on the Land
Admittedly a good many farmers did
moan (B. 10/12/’47) before leaving the
land—so effectively that the rural popula-
tion of Australia declined alarmingly
during the last census interval. Those
who are left are not moaning. No ; not
even when wool sales are held up over
some pannikin boss wanting to increase
his flock of slaves, or when Chifley does
the Peron stunt with their wheat, or when
they have to stop stripping because no
one works on Saturday, or when they
have been made fools of over grain sor-
ghum, or when their produce is sold to
other countries at less than cost. They
just say “we’ll do no good till we get
this mob out.”
As to makipg a bit on a deal in old
ewes, what does that signify? I once
bought old ewes at 10s. and sold the
remnant at Is. 3d. after netting ss. per
ewe for the wool and lambs from them.
I challenge “Harry the Horse” to
specify one of his “subsidies, drought
relief and other grants” which was not
a hard business deal, or a case of robbing
Peter the farmer to pay Paul the cocky v
“H.” might also remember that as his
income, like that of every other Aus-
tralian, is derived from the production
and sale of goods grown or manufactured
here, he benefits just as much from the
25 per cent, exchange as the farmers do
and has nothing to moan about.—
H. A. C. (N.S.W.).
Slum Reclamation
% Touching Melbourne’s housing muddle
(B. 26 /11 / ’47). I recently toured South
Melbourne, one of the city’s earliest
suburbs. It struck me that it was quite
unnecessary to wipe the slate clean to
Here's a tip , biekes — We'll back Grey Nurse next time she starts."
build a modern “model” suburb in the
conventional manner favored by town-
“Sowth’s” terraced houses are
well built, in rr.uny cases more substan-
tially than the modern dwelling with its
synthetic materials, and having lasted for
100 years without deterioration are prob-
ably good for another 100 years.
To wreck all this good bluestone and
handmade brick when there is no mateiL 1
to replace it would be idiotic. Ail archi-
tect with imagination could easily nnkt
them into modern homes by combining
two or three into one house with a front-
age in accordance with the housing regu-
lations. Sanitary conditions could be
brought up to standard, backyards could
be reconditioned and the derelict tin •
fences replaced by hedges. Most of the
streets are too wide already for the exist-
ing traffic and a good half of them could
be converted into plantations for
children. Space for schools, kinder-
gartens, baby centres and other social
institutions could be provided on the
vacant allotments, of which there are
many. The architecture of the old build-
ings is not resplehdent, but it is not as
unpleasant as some Housing Com-
mission horrors.
The saving in cost and labor would be
enormous, and fejy tenants would have to
be given accommodation elsewhere
Many of the houses could be made with
two or even three storeys, and so cheap
and cool, the most expensive things about
a house being the roof and the founda-
tions. — Melbn (Vic.).
Dollar Cuts
I see by the papers that Mr. Chifley’s
Cabinet considered the possibility of
reducing the size of Australia’s dollar
deficit by adopting measures to increase
Australian exports to dollar areas.” But
did anyone dare suggest that Australians
should work harder and longer to that
end—as the British are doing? “Many
of the items which could be sold for
dollars are in short supply in Australia,”
Mr. Chifley said. And they’ll be in still
shorter supply next year when the 40-
hour week takes full, effect.
Our antipathy for work is already
lowering our standard of living. We
keep wingeing for shorter hours and more
leisure, and our “leaders” indulgently
hand them to us. But a standard of
living is not measured solely in terms of
leisure. Its basic essentials are enough
to eat and wear, and a roof to sleep
under. We have left that elementary
standard far behind, and expect our
standard to include luxuries. To buy
them —motor-cars, petrol, tobacco and
what-have-you—we need dollars.
We haven’t dollars and we are unwilling
to earn them by the only means of earn-
ing anything—toil. And so we're faced
with the inevitability of doing without.
Tough, isn't it, but that is the way of a
cruel world. — Kell (N.S.W.).
The Liberal Party in Britain
It is plain that Liberalism, in Britain,
spelt with a capital “L,” is all but dead.
In the last three by-elections in which
Liberal candidates have stood all have
forfeited their deposits.
At Epsom there occurred the strange
contradiction of a prominent Liberal
statesman, Lord Simon, publicly support-
ing the Conservative while a Liberal
candidate was putting up for the same
seat. This brought about a slanging-
match between Mr. Isaac Foot, president
of the Liberal party, and Lord Simon,
with Mr. Foot doing most of the slanging.
He said he had no objection to Lord
Simon playing for the Tory team so long
as he “took off the Liberal jersey.” Lord
Simon, calling himself a “life-long Liberal
who feels that the most important thing
... is to help to overthrow the present
Government,” with its record of “muddle,
mismanagement and mistake,” defines
Liberalism not as a hatred of Tories but
as “the application of (he doctrines of
individual liberty, social justice and
sound finance with a view to promoting a
truly democratic State.”
Great Britain, always a moderate
country, has been a fount of liberal-
minded thought. There are countless
people, who, coming in the “middle of
the road,” cannot easily settle either to
the Left or to the Right. Some of them
are rather pitifully resigned to a party
that is moribund. They are in the
minority. The more practical wish to use
tneir votes to some purpose and not to
support a candidate who can have little
effect upon the political scene. Unfor-
tunately the word “Tory” still conveys to
the traditional Liberal a reactionary
image of the eighteenth century. ‘|Blimp”
is dead. His counterpart can be found
among the Socialist diehards.
Lord Simon affirms that Liberalism is
a point of view and that “it has so
largely permeated national policy that
many Conservatives are, in fact, Liberals
without knowing it.”
By the next general election the liberal-
minded man will have to choose, and the
way he registers his vote may well decide
the final result. Modern Conservatism is
nearer to his concept that the rigid dogma
of a Socialist programme. The Conser-
vative party, by breaking down the tradi-
tional antagonism and by expressing its
policy more clearly, can do much to
make way for him.— Herbert Holman
(London).
The Betting Crane
As I passed the papershop, a large sign
caught my eye: “How to Bet and Win”
The cost of the booklet containing the
priceless information was Is. This great
Australian problem has exercised the
minds of all types for countless years,
and thousands of systems have been
evolved without success, but it still goes
on.
Consider the thought and profound
concentration given to “what’ll win
the next.” A matured and apparently
sensible man will recite the names of
each winner of, say, the Sydney Cup,
weight and rider for many years. He
will discuss the possibilities for the full
week before the race up to the time of
starting and will finish up out of pocket.
Week after week the punter will do the
same, with an occasional win—in any
other walk of life he would cease to do
business with such an organisation be-
cause Of financial losses.
The men who run the gambling game
become heroes to certain elements. They
are well dressed, they drive flashy motor-
cars and dine at the best hotels. At
present they are squealing about a turn-
over tax and indicate that they will be
driven out of “business.” It would be
a good thing for the country to see
them doing useful and constructive work.
As a nation we cannot afford the time
given to racing and its subsidiaries. The
thought and mental energy at present
wasted in that direction would work
wonders if diverted to the cultural,
physical and social advancement of the
people.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Youth
Every father has, for centuries, deplored
the trend of youth, but for once the
criticism seems well merited. We have
today a rising generation who are
creatures of pleasure and ease, and whose
general education is conspicuous by its
absence.
It has been the accepted custom for
that youths should have a know-
ledge of some sort of trade or profession
before they step out into life and gain
social independence. But today this rule
is sagging in the middle because almost
any boy can leave school and take a
“process-working job” at about £3 a
week. Naturally he scprns the thought of
apprenticeship and sees before him one
rosy perspective of picture-going, dancing,
racing, girl - chasing and every other
pleasure usually attributed to men of 21
and over. The sack holds no terrors for
these boys, as labor is so scarce that they
can walk in and out of jobs without the
slightest trouble.
. We can, therefore, expect quality to
decrease in our manufactures, and prices
to rise. Experts will be few and unskilled
hands many. The future is hardly a
prospect for youth, rather for older
men who have learned the harder way
and become proficient. In the past we
had many crazy views about apprentice-
ship, and many a skilled man was denied
a pupil because he did not employ so
many journeymen.
It is almost an axiom that the brain is
most receptive in the early ’teens, and that
a boy of 14 can absorb technical facts
faster than an older man. If our youths
are allowed to cash in on the present labor
shortage and neglect their technical
education, we can say goodbye for ever
to a decent standard of living and a fair
value for Our £l.—M. T. V. R. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
It has come as a shock to many car-
owners to learn from the Queensland
Deputy Prices Commissioner that, if the
pegged price of a car is lower than its
true market value, the owner can apply
to the Prices Branch to have the price
fixed at a fair rate. It’s a pity that this
information was not available long ago,
as many who entered the secondhand cat
blackmarket did so with great reluctance
and only because they definitely could
not afford to sell at ridiculous pegged
prices. Others who lost money rather
than risk a prosecution or because they
refused to deal on the blackmarket must
be feeling pretty sore now. And all those
who were caught and fined, besides hav-
ing to refund the amount overcharged,
must be frothing at the mouth.—
Notis (Q.).
“R.W.” (B. 3/12/’47) apparently has
had no experience of battle or air-raid
casualties nor of major accidents such as
the ambulance-man is likely to meet. In
these cases, morphia, apart from easing
pain, is often a life-saving measure. It
should be reasonably easy to prevent
abuse. Incidentally, nurses do use
morphia.—M. B. (Q.).
What is needed is not a new approach
to the problem of crime (B. 26/11/ ’47),
but punishment the offender can under-
stand. There is too much toadying to
criminals. That is why city and suburban
’streets have become a nightmare to
women and girls. Sex fiends, if caught,
can expect “mercy” treatment, but the
victim is rarely mentioned. This talk of
“sympathetic” treatment is really a re-
flection on the judiciary, who are men of
wisdom and ripe experience. Any
“mercy” or “sympathetic” treatment can
be safely left in their hands.—A D
(S.A.).


Sb.
r*
■
let
mm
\m
©
//9W
k-
FLIES menace your family health
the time to
your home /
m
410 5 ...
TH E SUPER SPR AY
NOW— early in the season—before health-menacing flies breed
in their thousands—GET SUPER QID ON THE JOB. Keep
your home safe from germ-carrying flies and other insects.
Simply spray SUPER QID on walls, ceilings, light fittings, in
garbage cans and wherever flies gather. SUPER QID leaves an
invisible film—a residue of D.D.T. that remains for months to
keep on killing flies and other insects that settle on these surfaces.
SUPER QID KILLS ON CONTACT . . . IT’S SUDDEN DEATH!
Kills flies quickly, safely and surely . . . knocks them cold with
a lethal dose that KILLS for certain in double-quick time.
§(4p er QID keeps on killing. ..
Yes, SUPER QID keeps on killing for months because of its
powerful combination of ingredients. Its effect is so long lasting
that it is most economical to use.
sttp er QID contains 5% D.D.T.
Plus Pyrethrum and Thanite. Flies, mos-
quitoes, silver fish and other insects simply
cannot stand up to such a death-dealing com-
pound. SUPER QID won’t stain or injure
fabrics. It is pleasantly perfumed, too —no
rank flyspray odour.
%
rA
27
m
0*
x
i
m
'W&I
m
w
Get a bottle NOW!
Get it into action at the
first sign of fly menace.
Metropolitan Prices:
8-ounce bottles .... l/o
16-ounce bottles ... 2/1
m
Manufacturers and distributors
The Sheldon Drug Co.. Pty. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
r
r.
M
m
✓ '
