

The House of Seppelt ... producers of
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68 -No. 3513
Wednesday, June 11, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ST. PETER PORT IS GUETNSEY'S CAPITAL.
CJECOND in size of the Channel Islands is Guernsey, whose
capital, St. Peter Port, is illustrated in this view—one of this
series published with the compliments of the House of Seppelt.
A notable building in St. Peter Port is Elizabeth College, a public
t•.•,, , * ■ .
’ V he are a number of picturesque
manor houses as well as the notable Castle Cornet, a 13th century
fortress. There are ancient churches at the towns of St. Sampson’s, '
St. Martin, Catel and Vale. The island of Guernsey is not only
noted for its special breed of cattle but for its granite; also its
market gardens produce large quantities of fruit and vegetables
mainly for the English market. In World War I, Guernsey sent
t "° “ mp ? n !? i vol ™' eer ? , to n * e , Roya ! t l r i sh ß R !fr“‘
Royal Irish Fusiliers. The Ist Battalion of the Royal Guernsey
Light Infantry did gallant service in the early winter of 1918.
The sou th coast of the island is particularly rugged and attracts
many of the visitors who in pre-war times regularly made holiday
on this pretty and interesting island near the coast of France.


freelance
This Bopk FREE to YOU'
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please tend, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit as
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin. 1 * ‘
Uy Name
Vy Address
6.8 147 ..
AGE
The Red Page
A WANDERING DANE .
Writing is generally ■ confession and
Karl Eskelund’s My C r. se Wife (Har-
rap) reveals more o tae ianky, enthusi-
astic Danish newsht md and his travels
than it does of his \v fv, Clii-yun.
Eskelund records, of course, that when
he met her in the librai of the Yenching
University in Peking si e was “the most
beautiful girl” he had ever seen, but the
portrait, taken all ro md, is not so
much a study of a Chinese wife as of
a wife, and—regrettably, because of her
obviously interesting background and
character —it’s not a particularly ana-
lytical study. Still, how many- men could
explain their wives—or would be game to
put it on paper if they could?
Eskelund is much more comfortable
and informative about his wanderings
and his work. His methods, familiar as
they are, at least explain why the news
from China is generally as clear as drink-
ing water in a duckyaf d:
But the military claims were mild com-
pared to some of the startling statements
sometimes made by China’s First Lady.
When Madame Chiang made her speeches
in the United States we correspondents
were simply flabbergasted. She spoke of
democracy, truth and justice. Outside our
doors stood spies from the secret police.
A few hundred yards away was the censors’
office, where the truth was carefully deleted
from our messages. And outside the city
lay concentration camps whose inmates had
never been given a trial.
Eskelund differs from most correspon-
dents who produce books in that he has
no axe to grind, no worlds to remake and
no heads to attack. And he seems com-
pletely devoid of any inflate d sense of self-
importance. There is a Borrovian expan-
siveness about his record of places and
people, and he writes an easy, journa-
listic style with enthusiasm.
His wanderings began at six when his
father went from Denmark as dentist to
the King of Siam. The family returned
to its homeland within a year, but the
father lit out for Shanghai soon after-
wards. His son, at 17, followed as a cabin
boy on the Annam, a ship with a
ferocious captain.
'Hie description by Eskelund of a
Chinese funeral in Soochow was pub-
lished in the Danish “Politiken” and gave
him his journalistic aspirations. The
funeral was that of one Dr. Wong’s
father. It began in a home of 15 build-
ings in which every room was “crowded
with talking, tea-drinking and melon-seed-
chewing people who all seemed very
happy.” Above the noise of the guests
were sobbing and wailing cries of hired
wefeping crying their eyes out. Six Taoist
monks sat behind the coffin muttering
prayers and striking a gong as the guests,
one by oile, knelt before the coffin. After
that came the funeral dinner. There
were 14 tables seating 12 people each,
no speeches of formality, but plenty of
food—so different dishes, including
stewed fish-stomachs, duck’s-tongue soup,
century-old eggs, “which taste like a deli-
cious French cheese and actually are
only a few weeks old,” and hot rice wine.
The guests laughed and shouted and
played games until the funeral was ready
to start, whereupon they “stuffed their
pockets with oranges and pears arid
strolled out into the street, where a long
procession already had been formed.”
All the beggars and vagabonds on
Soochow must have been hired for the
occasion. Dressed up in colorful costumes
which contrasted strangely with their dirty
faces and hands, they carried hundreds of
lanterns and banners which announced what
a great man Dr. Wong’s father had been.
All the dead man’s possessions had been
constructed in paper miniatures: his house,
his sedan chair and rickshaw, and his ser-
vants. These were carried in front of the
procession, followed by a brass band of
12 men in foreign clothes who mournfully
played “Auld Lang Syne” and later
Hotcha-cha. ’ Next came the coffin, ear-
ned by 20 disguised beggars; then the ’
grieving son, still supported by two ser-
vants. The female mourners rv..e carried
in closed sedan chairs. Behind them came
the chanting monks swinging incense sticks,
more disguised beggars, and finally the long
row of chatting, gesticulating guests. The
winter sun added brilliance to this say
spectacle as we strolled through the narrow
alleys lined with the people of Soochow,
who stared wide-eyed at all the splendor.
Eskelund missed the actual burial as he
had to return to Soochow to get medical
attention for one of the guests, wounded
when a disguised beggar swung his lantern
too wildly in enthusiastic mourning.
It was an appropriately cheerful in-
troduction to Eskelund’s career as a war
correspondent. Later, when he was
covering the Sino-Japanese War for his
Danish newspaper, his chief troubles,
apart from Japs—whom he saw at their
usual atrocities —were bandits; a more
polite race. The first gang took his purse,
then “waved goodbye and left.” The
second lot were
sitting on the line, as waiting for me.
When I got closer they rose and greeted
me politely. I was about to return the
bow when I saw that one of them held a
pistol pointed at my stomach. The other
one came over and searched me. He found
my watch and kept it. Then they sat down
to wait for their next victim. They nodded
goodbye when I left.
The third gang were “the most impolite
bunch I had yet encountered —without
even a greeting, they ordered me to un-
dress.” They took his chocolate, tie and
belt and even broke the heels of his
shoes in the hope of finding money. It
reads rather like a description of the
Australian taxation system.
After a spell in Chunking, and then
his marriage to Chi-yun in the Danish
Consulate, Eskelund left China for Europe
via Siberia and Russia, The Russian
Customs people ignored two or three
books of a political nature in his luggage,
but confiscated The Adventures of Sher-
lock Holmes. On the Russian train he had
to listen to a voice shouting in Russian
from a loudspeaker in the compart-
ment. When he stuffed the speaker with
a sweater a soldier appeared very
promptly and made it plain that the voice
had to be heard —“during the next two
weeks I became so used to the noise that
I actually missed it when I got off the
train in Moscow.” Eskelund travelled
third-class and when he tried to use*the
second-class washroom an attendant very
smartly shoved him back to his third-
class carriage.
The outbreak of the Pacific war and
the fall of Shanghai sent Eskelund to
Chungking and thence to Yunming to
cover the “Flying Tigers,” who
didn’t love China, the country they were
fighting for: there were no blondes, no
“cokes,” no flush toilets, so it was no
damned good. They found fault from
morning to night and hated everything and
everybody except General Chennault.
Without General Chennault I think the
A.V.G. would have been a flop. The pilots
■and ground crew were merely average,
but he welded them into a first-class fight-
ing force.
It is probably impossible to roll half-
way round ''the world in search of news
without collecting a little moss, and
Eskelund seems to have taken in odd
places and people as avidly as a vacuum
cleaner. There was, for instance, the
drunken Swede in Helsinki who kept
himself in beer and funds by posing as a
veteran from the Russo-Finnish front and
selling first-hand experiences to the cor-
respondents. And the thieving Yunnanese
who “pinch everything from chopsticks
and motor-cars to telephone-wires and
cats. If a motor-car is left locked they
steal the door-handles, even though they
aren’t worth anything.” Incidentally,
Eskelund’s experience that babies, moist
at any time, behave like fountain-pens at
high altitudes should be of some interest
to the manufacturers of pressurised
cabins, fountain-pens and babies.
Casey on India.
In An Australian in India (Hollis and
Carter) Mr. R. G. Casey, late Governor
of Bengal, has written “the sort of mem-
orandum that I would like to have had
put into my hands when I took over the
Governorship of Bengal in January,
Mr. Casey opens with two chapters on
Bengal and his task after a devastating
famine. Bengal’s perpetual problem is
food, and the home supply, inadequate
in most years, is at the mercy of the
monsoon The administrative machinery
of the province is archaic, its poverty
abysmal. Mr. Casey believes its first
need is vast capital expenditure in con-
struction of irrigation works to free the
people from dependence on the mon-
soon’s vagaries. Mr. Casey left behind
him, after two years’ work, some worthy
foundations by way of reform, a high
appreciation of his capacity (though he
does not say so) in the Indian Civil
Service, and at least one Australianism —
“a fair cow,” as a deprecatory term of
comment —which the Babu adopted.
In five further chapters, the main
structure of the little book, Mr. Casey
reviews the Indian problem as a whole,
of which Bengal is but a local reflection.
The development in British India since
1900 from autocracy towards self-govern-
ment through four constitutional phases
is crisply, described; and the final stage
would, Mr. Casey believes, have been
much less difficult if rival Indian party
leaders were less sternly uncompromis-
ing and personally influential, and if the
Congress party’s Working Committee
had not made the mistake of rejecting
the Cripps proposals in 1942; which it
did, believing that Britain had lost the
war and was down and out. The Con-
gress party later regretted this rejection,
of which the Muslim League took full
advantage,
Mr. Casey makes clear that the real
causes of the intensely anti-Hindu feeling
in the Muslims are (1) the memory of
past humiliations and Hindu desire for
domination (this grievance he believes is
not so valid today); and (2) the lack of
present economic opportunity. To a very
large extent throughout India mills, fac-
tories, and merchant houses are Hindu-
controlled and “No Muslim need apply.”
The Hindus got the start, too, in school
facilities.
When the Muslims in a village think of
Pakistan, they think in terms of the village
store being owned by a Muslim and not
by a Hindu. But Pakistan would not result
in the village store being owned by a
Muslim. There would be discrimination
against Hindus in Pakistan, and this would
be quickly followed by discrimination
against Muslims in Hindustan. The com-
petition and antagonism between Hindustan
and Pakistan would translate itself in-
evitably into trade rivalry, and tariffs would
arise to the detriment of industry in each.
Pakistan (that is, a division of India
into two separate constitutions) is not the
solution, declares Mr. Casey, and if India
is once split it will take generations to heal
the breach again. Moreover the Native
States would not accept compulsion to
join definitely one of the parties against
the other.
It will not be possible for many years
ahead for India to do without a large
number of British individuals in the gov-
ernment service, or without active British
help in defence, or without British capital
(of which between £3OO and £5OO millions
is invested in India “and will remain”).
“From the point of view of imports, India
represents only a small market. Only
about 10 millions of her 400 millions have
any purchasing power worth talking
about. She will need a great deal of
working capital, many technicians, and
the passage of considerable time to im-
prove this state of affairs.” The first and
second of these “will have to come very
largely from outside India.”
The accumulation of sterling funds held
by India in London, about which negotia-
tion for settlement is now proceeding,
arose from the sale of about £l2OO mil-
lions. wortlj of goods and services to
Britain for the conduct of the war, mostly
in connection with the defence of India,
Britain also paid during the war the cost
of all Indian troops used outside India,
including the expensive Burma campaign,
which was for India’s defence. The war
made India very prosperous and greatly
improved the financial position of the
Indian masses, especially of the small
cultivators, who were able to pay off their
age-long debts to the money-lenders.
Mr. Casey defends, with good factual
argument, Britain’s efforts all along to do
the fair thing by India, and he quotes this
just “reminder” from a speech in 1936
by Sir William Hawthorn Lewis, then
Constitutional Adviser to the Viceroy and
later Governor of Orissa;
We are told that the normal span of a
man’s life is three score years and ten. It
is only four score years since; with the* re-
peal of the Charter Acts, the responsibility
for the administration of India was
formally assumed by the Crown. Study
the constitutional history of those years
and you will find in India an epitome of
the progress of public and pergonal liberty
which has carried us through the centuries
of our own history. Under the safe aegis
of the British Crown political institutions
have been set up in India and have been
expanded and developed on lines parallel
with institutions of our own country
The Indian factions prefer not to under-
stand this, and now have little time left in
which to appreciate its truth.
THE CAT-O'-NINE-TAILS.
Given the “Cat,” it was not only that he
ran
A gauntlet of whips—one could bear that
Before the mast in a salt gale—but a
man
Could not rally at those words, "Con-
vict rat.”
The delirious “Cat” striking with its nine
Tails, vigor and abandon of nine lives,
Mauling him, “Convict rat." How refine
Punishment with humor better with
knives ?
Cheap gibe, the “Cat.” It sprang again,
again ;
And pain filled in the hollows between
ribs.
“Give him the 'Cat’,” said voices in his
brain;
“ 'Convict rat’ . . . we’ll break his blasted
nibs."
“ ‘Cat’ . . . ‘Cat’ . . . give him the 'Cat
He remembered
QUEENSLAND.
Sentence and pretence of humor grim :
And, when he felt through torture one
dismembered,
Down from the triangle they bundled him.
What niceties of morning between bars
Matched his red scars; what sun’s salve
Mended his hide ? Better if scimitars
Descend now to quarter or halve
His striped agony—striped like a cat.
That humor would intrude. He rallied
now . . .
Milady’s kitten ? How he grinned at that,
Grimaces that would make one wonder
how
Solace was in this as the kitten came —
“It would have done this deed; remember
that.
Convict rat. It would have done the
same !”
He fondled with steeled heart Milady’s
cat.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
"Crockett's Lane.”
Set, as the publishers say, “in any one
of a hundred small farming communities
between the Blue Mountains and the
Pacific Ocean,” J. Somerville Best’s
Crocketts Lane (Dymocks, Ltd.) is some-
thing more than the picture of people
living “a normal, ordinarily comfortable
and prosperous life” it is claimed to be.
It is, certainly, an “everyday” novel.
There are no bodies in the bam ; no one,
except vaguely and mildly in intention,
or at long distance and offstage in the
wicked city of Sydney, commits any of
the seven deadly sins. The people milk
cows and grow oranges, catch or miss
Barney’s bus to the train, marry, have
babies and, in general, behave as most
people do behave.
Written without conviction or, as often
happens in minor Australian novels with
a rustic setting, with merely an intellec-
tual conviction of the nobility of farmers,
this sort of thing can be as flat and dull
as photography. Mrs. Best, perhaps be-
cause she is a woman, does not feel
obliged to burden her narrative with pro-
longed descriptions of farming opera-
tions as a substitute for drama. She does,
on the other hand, very nearly fall into
sentimentality in the opening chapters,
where she appears to sympathise over-
much with her heroine’s mawkish adora-
tion of her father and horror at his
aberrations; and then, having settled
clearly in her own mind that Alma is an
idiot, Mrs. Best, being a woman, does
feel obliged to write a great deal about
the worries of a young girl and about
the importance of having babies.
These are her central themes: Alma’s
heart-burnings, brought to a happy con-
clusion by a near-engagement to a
soldier ; and Tooney’s restlessness with
her husband Barney, ended by her de-
cision to have a child. For a male reader,
these themes are not so engrossing as beer
or murder. But that is hardly a valid
literary objection. Technically, the
themes are well handled ; the book is not
a string of episodes but a genuine novel.
A novel, moreover, with warmth and
humor. It is this quality of warmth —
a quietly realistic love of life —that lifts
Crockett’s Lane, in its best patches and
therefore as a whole, from the exclusively
feminine to the universal, from photo-
graphy into art. It is not drama on the
grand scale, far from it; but, as the old
Dutchmen knew who painted “interiors,”
much can be done to convey the glow
of life, if not its ash or its flame, in a
simple picture of a kitchen:
The kitchen was like its mistress, large
and homely; its calsomined walls yellow-
glazed with years of smoke, the big black
stove shining and singing with heat, a row
of assorted tins on the mantelpiece. The
linoleum had lost its pattern long ago, and
was patched with another color in front
of the stove; the knobs had vanished from
two of the dresser drawers; and at least
one chair was groggy in the legs. But the
general effect was one of wholesome com-
fort. Every chair had a cushion tied to
its seat, and a potted geranium bloomed
on a shelf by the window.
In the character of Tooney, a red-
haired woman with something rich and
Rabelaisian in her composition, there is
a hint of something more than this
“wholesome comfort”; a promise that,
if she chose to let hferself go, Mrs. Best
could write passionately as well as
pleasantly. But, as far as Crockett’s Lane
is concerned, that promise is unfulfilled.
A number of minor characters (some of
whom have appeared in The Bulletin in
short-story form) are very well drawn: a
lugubrious Alf who was born to be a
bachelor; a capable and cheerful Ma;
a dolorous Auntie May who has run for
refuge after the attack by the Japanese
submarines in Sydney Harbor; the
resolute Barney; farmers, spinsters and
cats ... the whole making, as far as it
goes, a pleasant picture of a pleasant
countryside: “So there she was on that
Wednesday afternoon, swinging along in
the brilliant September sunshine, through
air made rich with the tang of the spring-
sweet bush, and the fragrance of the
orchards frosted over with orange-
blossom.”


r' '
; v
m
m
0
■
r*
★ Durable yet
Beautiful
★ Lightest for
Flying
★ Roomiest for
Everything
"Durolite” Air Travel Case is beautifully constructed on a balsa wood
foundation and is covered with a watertight canvas with distinguishing
stripe . . . two English turn to safety locks, leather bound edges, cloth lined,
with inside pocket. Size 24 in. x 18 in. x 9 in. Price ..,. £7/2/-
Also Hat Box with same features to match. Size in. x in. x 9 in.
Price , £5/7/9
vermq
•*-crt. :
Canvas Overnight Bag, made for
air travel, compact in size with
plenty of packing space, made with
slide fastener, cloth lined, inside
pocket. In Dark Khaki Green with
Fawn Leather Piping and Handle.
Size 17 in. x 9£ in. x 14 in. high.
Price 95/6
fry'
5?
a
<i
m
i
•'7
rifX \ \
:
m
n
wm
1 M
m
w
0\
j
Leather Overnight Bag, made from
grained hide with slide fastener, cloth
lined,, inside pocket, two secure
handles, in colours of Blue, Brown,
Fawn, also Black. Size 20 in., 97/9,
and 22 in., price 108/9
r
mm . #
Mf
WALLPAPERS, either plain or patterned, to suit all
rooms and furnishings, are obtainable from our
Wallpaper Department, 3rd Floor, in a wide range of
patterns. Papers from 2/6 roll, freizes from 3d. yard.
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY


Tested
found
The photograph shows the safety test for the
Hawkesbury River Bridge, N.S.W. Clyde*
built locomotives—also tested and found cor*
rect—-were used for the purpose.
■vo«
•tO
CLYDE
BATTERIES
every product of Clyde is subjected to exhaustive tests for quality, long
life and efficiency. That is why Clyde Batteries for cars, trucks, buses
l*adio and home lighting are preferred by countless battery users.
An advt. of The Clyde Engineering Co. Ltd.. Granville.
Merchandise Sales Division—* 0
SYDNEY, BRISBANE. MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE
iNew invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts '.ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 235) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
u your
uug b coat
ib dull,
•cost or
ragged—
if he 1b list-
less, won’t eat
or la out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
■iim on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKo
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS \f*
SKIN LOTION 2/1
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!
SOLD BY ALL CHFMTSTS
w
BARKO
GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S
There are many
hut only
The delicate, true flavour of Gilbey's Gin is
the same today as always. The name Gilbey's
on every bottle is a guarantee that its
contents are gin at its best the world
standard by which all gins are judged.
Don’t say Gin—say GILBEY’S... and get it.
THE WORLD STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To communicate with the son of Lieut.
J. C. McIntosh, who was with Parer on his
famous flight to Australia. —4027.
To buy book of instructions for a Ford
jeep.-r4026.
Ex-marine engineer, 1st class, 35 years’ general
engineering workshop experience, seeks interest-
ing job in an advisory or supervising capacity.
—4025.
Information Sought.
(1) When and where have the Olympic Games
been decided? (2) What were the times for
the 100 metres, 440 metres, 880 metres, 1500
metres and Marathon at the first meeting, and
the holder of the record for these events?
1896, Athens; 1900, Paris; 1904, St. Louis;
1906, Athens; 1908, London; 1912, Stockholm;
1920, Antwerp; 1924, Paris; 1928, Amsterdam;
1932, Los Angeles; 1936, Berlin. (2) 100
metres —T. E. Burke (U.S.A.), 12sec.; record
holder, E. Tolan (U.S.A.), 10.3sec. in 1932.
440 metres —T. E. Burke (U.S.A.), 54.2sec.;
record holder, W. Carr (U.S.A.), 46.2sec. in
1932. 880 metres —E. H. Flack (Great Britain),
2min. 11 sec.; record holder, T. Hampson (Great
Britain), Imin. 49.8sec. in 1932. 1500 metres —
Flack (Great Britain), 4min. 33.2sec.; record
holder, J. Lovelock (New Zealand), 3mm.
47.8sec. in 1936. Marathon —S. Loues (Greece),
2hr.. 55min. 20sec.; record holder, Kitei Son
(Japan), 2hr. 29rain. 19.2sec. in 1936.
* * * #
(1) What extra education would a boy of 10
need to give him a chance to qualify for a
cadetship in the R.A.N. ? (2) How are such
cadets selected? (3) What are the subjects for
the entrance examination ? (4) What is the
entrance age, and for what period do successful
candidates serve?
(1) Extra coaching should not be necessary,
because the standard of the educational ex-
amination is such that boys of 13 attending a
primary school should normally be able to pass.
The Navy does not conduct any coaching classes
but suggests that the syllabus of the examination
be shown to the boy’s schoolteacher, who will
be able to advise him. (2) Candidates must
apply for entry as cadet midshipmen prior to
June 15 in the calendar year in which their
13th birthday falls. Candidates who qualify
jt the educational examination held in Sep-
tember, and who pass the medical examination,
appear before an interviewing committee which
recommends for entry those candidates con-
sidered suitable. (3) Arithmetic (elementary),
geometry, English, history, geography; and one
of the following: Arithmetic (harder), algebra
and Latin or French. The syllabus, conditions
of entry, and application forms may be obtained
from the Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne.
(4) Successful candidates enter in the January
following the examination for which they sit.
The parent of a cadet midshipman is required
to complete an agreement that the cadet mid-
shipman will serve until he reaches the age of
30 years, but service to the age of at least 45
years is assured.
* * 4: *
A cure for warts?
Wart growth suggests lime deficiency in the
system. You omit age and particulars. Keep
to nourishing diet, with cereals, green,“leaf
vegetables, milk, oranges, etc., and take lime-
water in milk or water twice daily. Meanwhile
paint each wart daily with a saturated solution
of salicylic acid in collodion, carefully avoiding
the surrounding skin during treatment. If the
growth persists, substitute glacial acetic acid
for a time, making the application with a
pointed match or glass rod. x Warts must not
be cut —scrape off the surface cuticle as re-
quired.
« * ♦ *S>
(1) Titles of reliable books on goldmining ?
(2) Where can I obtain a prospecting pan ?
(3) Cost?
(1) A Guide Book ’for the Use of Prospectors
in New South Wales, published by the N.S.W.
Department of Mines, price Is. 6d., postage
24-d., is obtainable from the Government Printer.
Pnillip-street, Sydney; and Prospecting fot
Gold, by lon L. Idriess, price 55., postage 3£d.,
is obtainable from Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (2) Wholesale
ironmongers normally stock prospecting dishes.
Many country stores in mining towns stock
them. (3) Approximately 4s.
* * 4= *
Method of dressing cotton thread for use as
a fishing line?
Stretch the line tightly between two posts.
Give the line a coat of marine copal varnish,
then run a split cork along the line to free all
surplus varnish. Then give a second coat of
varnish and again use the cork. When varnish
dries give the thread one coat of vaseline and
again use the cork to free any surplus 'matter.
(1) Where were Corriedale sheep originated?
(2) What cross was used? (3) How many years
of inbreeding to fix the type? (4) Where is the
finest wool in the world produced? (5) What
percentage of world’s fine wool is produced in
Australia? (6) What, percentage of world’s fine
wool is produced in England ?
(1) In 1874 at' The Levels -Estate, near
Timaru, N.Z. Actually the name “Corriedale’'
was derived from the fact that in 1866 Jas.
Little commenced experiments at the Corriedale
Estate, Otago, N.Z., when he mated English
longwool rams with merino ewes. However,
this flock was soon dispersed and played no
part in the development of the breed; there-
fore The Levels flock is considered as the
original Corriedale flock. (2) The cross used
was merino rams with Lincoln ewes. (3) The
number of years in breeding is not known, but
it took many years of drastic culling before
a satisfactory type was evolved. (4) In Aus-
tralia. (5) 50 p.c. (6) The amount of fine
wool produced in England is so small as to
have no significance in the world’s total final
production. All British wools normally fall
within 60/28’s classification.
Brief Answers.
R.J.8.W.: Chief Botanist and Curator,
Botanic Gardens, Sydney G. 1.: Unable to
answer without further information. Did the
sole beneficiary get only a life estate or an
absolute estate in the trust property? Would
probably need to see the will to determine
matter A.L.: Sulphur is specific for
true mangfe in dogs. This must not be con-
fused with eczema, which also irritates. Apply
ointment of black sulphur and lard (1 to 8),
and repeat every two or three days. Keep a
piece of lump sulphur in the drinking water.
Use of a good dog soap is essential during
treatment... .8.C.: Particulars from Registrar,
Institute of Chiropodists, 446 Elizabeth-street,
jSydney. Diploma course is under two years.
G.L.; To soften hardened nail apply
castor oil on wool or lint pad overnight. Add
a little bicarb, soda to hot water to soak
before trimming. Two or three oil applications
may be necessary. Cut ingrowing nail straight
along edge S.C.E.: Reg. 60a National Security
(Landlord and Tenant) Regs, does not apply.
Thirty days’ notice to quit is required....
H.M.H.: Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, and Robertson and Mullens,
107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne E.8.A.:
Only a limited quantity of the ribbon has been
procured from England. At the moment Army
has no supplies, but it is available from the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A. Trading Department, Wingello
House, Angel-place, Sydney, together with
other ribbons on brooches. If you require a
full set of your ribbon entitlement you should
forward your discharge certificates together
with your order and money to them
W.D.8.: (1) Coin was issued during the reign
of William 111 and Mary 11. If a 6d. piece,
and in good condition, it should be worth Is.
(2) If in perfect condition, 3d., otherwise
nothing. (3) No value F.J.R.; Write Secre-
tary, Cement and Concrete Assoc, of Aus-
tralia, 14 Spring-street, Sydney E.J.G.:
According to Grove’s Dictionary of Music, the
first appearance of the tune of “Yankee
Doodle’’ in print is dated 1784, and relates to
a song by Arnold, “Two Is One,” but it is a
lot older than that. To other words the tune
was sung in 1755 by Amherst’s troops, who
were engaged in a campaign against the French
and Indians C.J.; If an applicant was under
21 at the date of his enlistment, served for six
months or more, and has an honorable dis-
charge, he is eligible for full-time training.
His suitability for a particular calling is decided
by vocational or aptitude test. The course
nominated by the applicant is taken into con-
sideration and provided he is eligible and has
the educational qualifications, and the course
is considered to be of value in rehabilitating
him in a civil occupation, it is granted.


ŵ
" THIS
DUPLICATOR
I has all the lines! features ol high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
- their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli*
DETAILS AND PRICES cator will reproduce Typing, Writing,
ON APPLICATION. Plans, Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ■ ~
BRANDAUERrS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
77i^5Bxdleti//i.
The limitations on Subscriptions to Thb
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£l4 0
6 12 6
5 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia;
12 months .. .. .. IS 0
6 8 0
» .. 4 0
By airmail to members ot the forces In the
Islands —8 months .. ..£lBO
o
i
r
f==- *
t
»\
'W
'
V.
I
3
O/v s& ccuCts&WjcC
yauA, S'&o&ytA *s£lc&>€o‘/"
Avoid the embarrassment of afternoon stubble with
Gem. Give yourself a professional skin level shave
once a day with Gem and you’ll be clean and neat all
day and evening. Buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
TEA
FOR THE
WORKERS
IE of the factors responsible for the greater production
and efficiency of our factories during the war was the
mid-shift tea service. The benefits were so obvious that the
provision of tea was given greater consideration than ever before
in industry. Old-fashioned and haphazard ways were discarded.
Systems were introduced, often after consultation with The Tea
Bureau, by which tea could be served without fuss and annoy-
ance to the worker and without loss of time.
In the sternly competitive days which He ahead of Australian
manufacturers, the provision of an efficient tea service must take
a leading place amongst the proved means of stepping up pro-
duction and improving the workers’ morale. Managements are
realising this and in consultation with their architects and
builders, are seeking ways and means of introducing improved
facilities for tea-making and distribution. In existing factories,
suitable adaptations are being made; in the planning of new
factories architects are being asked to consider the tea service as
an integral part of their plans.
Tea has proved its efficacy in industry. Tea in industry has come
to stay.
TEA CARS are essential
for dispersed
building sites . . .
An essential
service
in modern
industry
A FIXED POINT Tea and Snack Bar
Service may be sufficient for
some factories . . .
5
I v s
A TROLLEY SERVICE
will be necessary in others ♦. *
% \
mm
The Tea Bureau was consulted by many manage-
ments during the war years, and generally found
satisfactory solutions to the problems. A very careful
record has been kept of that exacting period and of
the requirements of the different industries, trades,
offices and types of service. This extensive experience
is freely available, at no cost, to all concerned with
planning a satisfactory tea service. A brochure giving
details of the advisory service offered by The Tea
Bureau will be sent free on request.
THE TEA BUREAU
If you have any Tea problems, write or '*phone The Tea Bureau, (Service Dept,),
31 Macquarie Place, Sydney (Tel, 8W6692) and 47 Queen St., Melh, (Tel, C, 1100)
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
P.V.: Nearly. Falls away after the first
stanza 5.0.8.: Too long and too frothy,
yet a creditable concoction... .K.R.: Sounds
young A.E.S.: Well, you’ve enlivened your
style.... M.L.: It jolts... .J.D.: Promising if
you’re under 16....A.0.: Turgid... .L.R.: The
end’s flat and not wholly appropriate to your
theme. Polish and resubmit W.S.C.; A
tame sort of story, though it has atmosphere.
J.R.R.: “I do not know if this is any
good.” We don’t think it is M.S.: Too
much “the good old days” W.McK.:
Neither good nor bad but somewhere in be-
tween DJ.; A pretty little bit of nothing
in particular... .D.P.: What’s the use of giving
orders to hills?... .H.G.8.: Come in for a
couple of puffs:
... ,E.P.: Your “Babbling Brook” may or may
not be a good cook, but he’s a dreary yarn-
spinner E.A.S.; “That’s My Story” isn t
exactly what we are looking for... .I.O.B.:
Old, old story of criminal allowing his fear
to misinterpret a trivial remark as an accusa-
tion Boer War veteran will not
see service in our pages... .T.D.: Only worth
a paragraph... .T.N.M.: We never doubted
for a moment they wouldn’t end up in each
other’s arms... .P.G.E.: Not keen on the yarn,
but Maxie Falstein might buy the watch....
E.H.; Any cub-reporter might have written it.
C.D.O’B.; Sending it back J.H.: Con-
densed, it might stand a chance... .1.T.: Both
are quite bright, but more suited for a woman’s
paper than for u5....D.G.; We found it un-
convincing J.M.; We wouldn’t buy “Roses
for Love” for love or money... .S.D.T.: That
was a messy way to get rid of the ambitious
young man W.P.T.: A “Red Page” article
several years ago covered much the same idea
on a grander scale G.P.H.: Chance encoun-
ters with silver-haired, genial old philosophers
in some “peaceful backwater” are a penny a
dozen J.J.A.: Detective whose every second
utterance is a quotation from Shakspeare is a
myth J.A.M.: If short-story writers are to
be Believed there is enough buried treasure in
Australia to pay the National Debt ten times
over.. . .D.S.: Glad the homecoming hero
found his property in apple-pie order. .*. .FP.:
Story of female plonk-drinker failed to impress.
D.McK.: Not wanting Uncle Max or his
marvellous machine 0.M.8.: Both are
amateurish VJ.M.: Fourth-rate slapstick
comedy.. . .G.W.: Might suit the back page
of a daily A.8.L.: Not a bad idea, but
too long for u 5.... W.E.M.: Too muddled for
us to follow J.S.: Having encountered
“Encounter” we felt compelled to go out and
drown our sorrows in rum J.A.M.; Tame.
. ...W.8.T.: Send it to a sporting paper
C.L.: The pink elephants almost reached the
finishing post... .L.R.: Bourke is the fourth
beachcomber we have heaved out this week.
. ...5.8.W.: Do you want us to be boycotted
by members of the Cat-lovers’ League?
E.T.: Much too sentimental M.T.: No one
ever tells a story in that fashion to a mixed
audience.., .F.R.: Too technical for fiction
readers S.F.: Definitely, no .... W.S.D.:
Send story of family drudge who wins a beauty
contest to Hollywood... .R.M.: Neither the
evil shanty-keeper nor the bush parson on a
bender rings true J.McK.: We tossed in the
towel after the tenth page A.H.C.: Black-
tracker tracing his way home N. 8.: No
grazing for that herd of brumbies in our pages.
C.T.: You should have made up your
mind whether it was to be a story or an article
for a technical magazine 8.W.F.: Every
week we are introduced to at least half a dozen
suicides who are found dead with a winning
lottery ticket in their pockets G.R.: We
don’t want ghost stories, nor do we want yarns
about gems the possession of which means a
violent end for their owners R.McL.: Have
yet to meet the traffic cop who solved unaided
“a series of murders that profoundly shocked
the citizens of a certain capital city” G.L.:
Who’s been telling you, George, that we print
that sort of fiction? A.M.H.: Local color
is probably correct; the trouble is that there is
too much of it... .P.0’8.: It started off briskly,
but ended with a limp... .R.R.: You’ve been
reading too many gangster stories R.C.: We
prefer them typed, but will read anything
written in a legible hand R.L.: For a start
you might discard half the adjectives in the
yam.. .~A.C.P.: After reading it we called for
a headache powder... .J.K.; “Crime Doesn’t
Pay.” It certainly doesn’t when you lift the
plot of a tale from a Yankee magazine
K.M.: Take it away, take it away.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.A.: Aren’t you a bit late with that Empire
Day cartoon? A.M.C.: Neither your master-
piece done entirely in horizontal strokes nor
your masterpiece in vertical strokes impressed
the Art Editor 5.8.: Too slapdash for our
liking T.J.0’8.; You’ll need to turn in
brighter gags H.S.: Both characters appear
to have emerged from a mud bath... .G.H.S.;
Must you use butter boxes as models for your
bushmen? J.D.; Suggest that you leave that
line of humor to Lock... .C.M.: You might
have told us why Calwell is wading through a
swamp on stilts E.McD.: Riderless horse
has been impounded and can be recovered by
the dispatch ofl a stamped and addressed enve-
lope R.T.W.: Throw away that scratchy
pen A.McD.; Now reposing in the office
morgue L.S.F.: The lad shows promise, but
needs a few years at an art school... .S.P.; Not
one of the six raised a laugh G.G.M.: “I
will admit that I am no Norman Lindsay.”
Your modesty overwhelms us P.J.: What
the cat said to the dog and vice versa wasn’t
funny 8.J.N.: Lopsided figures and infantile
humor S.O’D.: Capital and Labor in a
rowing boat pulling in opposite directions. A
hackneyed idea, Steve... .G.S.N.: How did that
draughthorse come to get entered in the race?
A.T.: Always apply a fixative: to charcoal
drawings before wrapping and dispatch
M. 5.8.: At least the telegraph wires appear to
be well drawn H.A.H.; An untidy and
‘scratchy batch J.R.A.: Looks as if it was
chopped out of ironbark with a blunt axe.,
Smoking is a costly form of fidgeting,
Said some scientific men the other day;
Chewing straws and sucking thumbs or anything
Are quite efficacious substitutes, they say.
But smokers say the weed brings peace to jumpy
nerves
And maintains them in a state of rocklike calm;
No troubles worry he who never swerves
From indulging without ceasing in the balm.


ROLLON RIVER
By GEORGE FARWELL.
CAPTAIN Hyde’s cottage com-
manded a fine view of the river.
Set a little apart from the town, as
if to keep it in its place, this low
weatherboard affair was always shipshape,
sheltering behind a well-barbered privet
hedge. It was not noticeably shabby, so
painstaking had he been with paint.
From his patch of spare grass at the
back, the captain could overlook the
wide bend, which, sweeping between
red-gums, glinted dully up at him in star-
light, by day mirrored cloud, trees, spear-
like rushes upon its sluggish flow. The
broad, tussocky river-flat below enabled
him, in brief leisure hours, to keep the
whole waterfront under observation;
from the high, foursquare, timbered
bridge upstream and the grand sweep
down past abandoned wharf, timberyards
and rotting woolshed on to the distant
Lock Island,-whose close-set trees parted
the water towards unseen weir and lock,
dual pulsebeat of the fruit town’s wealth.
There was one grand old river-gum
that always drew his eye; a gnarled and
naked bole of enormous girth, its dead
upper limbs against the pale mallee sky ;
one of the most ancient trees along the
Murray, old-timers said. The blacks,
who had camped there in bygone days,
had woven it into legend, made it a
symbol of endurance and fertility, “It’ll
outlive our time,” Captain Hyde was
fond of saying. “You and me, and our
children, and grandchildren’ll be under
the soil, and that there gum’ll be standing
yet. It’ll see the Murray come into its
own again.”
Secretly he invested it with his own
qualities. He ran calloused hands over
its iron-hard flesh, twisted his wrinkled
neck to peer up at the tangle of branches
which the strongest wind could barely
shake.
Then he would stand there, listening
to the flow of the river. That quiet,
sluggish flow ; it was like the ebbing of
time. It came sweeping around the bend,
smoothly, glittering in sunlight, brown
and swirling when the snows broke loose
from the distant Alps. It seemed to him
that all his life he had listened to its flow.
Time flowing by, slowly, slowly by; and
nothing had come of it.
He went down less often now, for the
steep climb home taxed him overmuch.
It was easier to watch the river from his"
garden, to brood upon it in his wicker
chair. When he had first rented the
cottage for his wife, 30-odd years before,
it was this private view of the river which
had appealed to him. Then boom times
had brought a crop of jerry-built bunga-
lows, obliging him to grow a taller hedge.
Not that anyone was likely to impose
upon him. He had strong views on the
matter, airing them to all and sundry,
in a voice harsh as a cough.
“Peace, peace,” he would say, raising
one gaunt arm till his upstretched fore-
finger seemed to point in mysterious pro-
phecy. “I must have it. No prize in all
the world’s one half so rare.”
Because he infused into the most casual
words a sonorous piety, neighbors re-
spected him, fearing a passion they did
not understand. They treated him with
offhand courtesy, masking their smiles till
his gaunt figure bad gone by. They
marvelled at his balance upon a bicycle,
which seemed likewise worn to the spirit,
yet which took him safely to work and
home again day by day. They had long
learnt to keep their opinions to them-
selves, for every well-intentioned com-
monplace upon weather, politics or the
state of the gravelled road was liable to
start fierce controversy. The captain took
pride in the Christian virtue of forgiving
his enemies; but seldom before he had
visited the wrath of heaven upon them,
alienating many friends.
“Snake-headed old devil,” his son-in-
law had once said, fuming at home over
some skirmish, its cause now long for-
gotten. “Look, Bella, from now on I’m
giving him a miss. Seems to forget he’s
not still boss of some blistering paddle-
wheeler. No wonder he was always in
strife with his crews.”
“But he wasn’t, Ted,” Bella said.
“They all thought Dad was Christmas.”
“Well, he’s not my Santa Claus. No
call to start insulting me, even if I was
fool enough to take him for a father-in-
law.”
THAT had been two years ago, but
Ted had barely spoken to him since.
Bella still dropped in every week, when
Ted drove her and young Robbie into
town for a Saturday’s shopping and
amusement. She. found something touch-
ing in the old man’s devotion to his
grandson, for it glowed at a depth her
own girlhood had been unable to reach.
He grew petulant if she did not come,
or if for some reason Robbie was left at
home ; he spent whole afternoons playing
with him in the garden, or took him
pick-a-back down to the river bank, spun
him yams of the old days.
Only when Ted came in sight did the
captain grow stiff as needlebush. It was
as if he could not forgive his daughter
for marrying a mere blockie,’even though
this stout, bluff-faced, hearty young man
was one of the district’s most successful
fruit-growers, with a four-figure income.
Perhaps that only added fresh fuel to the
old man’s resentment.
“If they don’t beat all, these River
Men,” Ted had once said. “Haven’t got
two bob to mb together. Yet they swag-
ger around like they were kings. Glori-
fied bargemasters! ”
“You want to tell Dad that,” Bella said,
laughing.
“I’H have him on, don’t worry.”
But no one took that kind of liberty
with Captain Hyde. If someone spoke
of the river, his thin lips tightened ; eyes
grew black beneath shaggy grey brows.
It was his churinga, the touchstone of
his faith, not to be profaned by the
currency of everyday The in-
itiated might talk of it, the old River
Men who sometimes dropped in, though
few were left these days.
But, old cronies or none, there was
always the river. Always the sluggish,
secretly-flowing river down there in front
of him ; silent now, still, holding only the
reflection of the gums. Nothing disturbed
it now but an occasional ripple on the
surface, or a duck-shooter’s flat-bottomed
boat drifting among the rushes. Now and
again a wild duck would flounder heavily
up from the water. At night swans
pitched their cries high into the dark.
There was no bustle of steamers and
barges any more; no hoarse shriek of
whistles, no flurry of brown water be-
neath paddlewheels; no shouting or
movement upon the old wharf, or winches
rattling, or deckhands singing erratically
back from the pubs on sailing day. Life
had seemed important then, and himself
at the helm of it; a tall man in ship’s
uniform, soberly returning the towns-
people’s greetings, strolling up from the
Elizabeth Anne, a sheaf of bills-of-load-
ing tucked under his arm.
Times changed; time flowed past,
sluggishly as the river. Time flowing, and
nothing had come of it.
Some days he could not bring himself
to look at it. He kept indoors, gloomy
and alone. He hated the river then, with
a fierce hatred; hated the stillness, the
brimming nothingness of that abandoned
water. The silence ate into his heart.
DURING one of these moods some
newspaperman had come banging on
his door, with a great show of know-
ledge, trying to worm out of him the story
of the river.
Impertinent young puppy, to think he
could interview Captain Hyde like any
freak or racecourse urger wanting pub-
licity! Sleek oily hair, and that wisp like
a.lady’s eyebrow on his upper lip!
“The river’s dead,” he had shouted at
the fellow. “Dead, I tell you. Best
leave it that way. Where’s the sense
talking about a thing that’s dead? No,
no, I’m not talking. I won’t have you
wasting my time.” A little shocked by
his own vehemence, he had added, less
aggressively. “But if I did tell you, you’d
only get it wrong. They always do.”
He brushed aside the young puppy’s
protests, rearing up like an angry snake,
long body taut, gesturing with outspread
fingers of one wrinkled hand.
“Go back to town,” he said. “They’ll
tell you all you want to know . . . folks
that never knew the first thing about the
river, that couldn’t steer a barge 10
yards without running her ashore. They
know all about it. Ask them!”
It was not until later in the morning,
reflecting upon the intrusion, that he
realised he had talked for a solid half-
hour on the subject of the river. And
the young fellow had the effrontery to
pretend they had not so much as men-
tioned it. He had kept up the fiction,
deferentially; all the time, no doubt,
making mental notes which he would
garble hopelessly after.
“I’m sorry you won’t talk, cap’n,” he
had said at the end. “Very sorry. You
see, I came to you first. They told me
you were the oldest hand along the river.
Knew it all. One of the famous skippers.
However, you know your own mind best,
cap’n.”
Confound the jackanapes! He had
been just stringing him along. And he
had taken the hook. Even the young
puppy’s deferential “cap’n” had served
as bait. He had missed the note of
mockery. Officially there was no longer
any Captain Hyde. It was no more than
a courtesy title, exploited by flatterers for
their own ends. The river—confound its
soul, if it had one yet—had rejected
him, cast him up like some old dead
branch upon the bank.
THE incident upset him so much he
had been obliged to rest on the ver-
andah. He was lying there still, staring
down at the sluggish river’s flow, when
Bella arrived with Robbie.
“What’s the matter, Dad? Sick?”
“Sick, fiddlesticks!”
He levered himself out of the chair,
breath coming a little short. Though it
was late summer, with the dry heat gone,
he felt pale. He was sweating.
“Well, Dad? What did the quack
say?”
On the defensive now, he said, “Oh,
I’m right, Bella. Just got to take it
easy.”
She left it at that, pursing her narrow
lips, watching him. It was a victory to
have made him admit that much, but she
needed to ask no more. Nor did she need
to tell him the doctor had ’phoned her,
outlined the old man’s trouble, advised
her to take him away from his job. If
he did not leave, he would not last the
year.
The old man told her nothing of the
terror the doctor had discovered for him.
The heart he had imagined as sturdy as
the boiler of one of his bygone steamers,
but which like them had been strained,
had betrayed him.
“What’s your work?” the doctor had
said, brusquely.
The admission came hard, even in the
professional secrecy of the doctor’s
room. So long had he tried to hide it;
so long held to the title investing his
name with dignity.
“I’m an engineer,” he said finally.
“What sort?”
The man’s questions were ruthless as
a probe. He stood impatiently, breathing
into the old captain’s face. He had a
shaggy moustache, grey as an old High-
land terrier. “Well?”
“At the pumping station. I tend the
boilers.”
“Have to give that up, old man! ”
“Look, I started when I was eleven ;
worked on the old Chaffey. Sternwheeler,
she was. The old Dad said to me: ‘Son,
you’ve got to work like any other.
You’ve got to climb the tree like I did.’
Well, didn’t I stoke boilers till I was
20? Didn’t I work on deck, on barges
.., steering, and loading, everything? I’ve
been everything from cook to engineer.
I’ve commanded my own steamer. There’s
no race of men the world over that’s
tougher than the River Men.”
“I’m only saying you’ve got to give
up,” the dqctor said, unmoved. “That’s
my advice. That’s what you come to me
for, isn’t it? Of course, you don’t have
to take it, old man. You don’t have to
keep yourself alive . . .”
The old man caught his breath. He
stood staring at the doctor, quietly, with-
out expression. His eyes had a black
glitter. Then, “Thank you,” he said,
with deep dignity. “That’s my affair, too,
I reckon. Good-day . >
HB had cycled slowly back to the
cottage, cautiously, aware of the
slow, erratic rhythm of his heart. Its
heavy beat pursued him, enlarged, leaden ;
it thudded in his pulses, his temples,
veins.
Now, watching young Robbie crawling
and tumbling on the grass, he thought:
only to the young is dying a joke, of
no importance. What would it mean to
this boy? In what terms could anyone
explain it? Things were, and that was
all; there was no such thing as non-
existence.
But hardest of all was looking down
at the river. Watching the rippling
current of time ; the slow flow ; the ebb-
ing away to the sea, the vanishing. And
after? . . .
“Now, Dad,” Bella called from the
kitchen. “While I’m getting dinner . . .
what about taking Robbie down to the
river?”
He took the boy by the hand, and
together they clambered and slid down
the steep slope to the flat. He sat down
beside the boy, beneath the great bole
of the old-man red-gum, the boy waiting
for the yarns that would surely come,
the voice with its strange harsh music,
soothing him without ruffling his mind
into thought.
The long spears of the rushes trembled
in the wind. Above the further bank a
hawk hung like a brown leaf turning.
Then the old man began to talk. It was
a kind of musing, the boy listening to
him, his senses pricked for the sights,
sounds, smells around him.
The old man began to speak of a red-
gum, another great bole like the one under
which they sat; of how his father had
cut it down, had it hauled by bullocks
six miles across country down to the
river, and had built from it one of the
finest boats ever to have sailed the Mur-
ray, and how at last it had been sold
for breaking-up, though the timber was
unimpaired. It took some time in the
telling, with many digressions, many
sketches of character and incident and
place. But the boy, who had been intently
listening, had understood nothing of it;
so they were both happy.
And the river flowed by them, slowly,
flowing by. The heart-beat of time
pulsed in the old man’s veins; time
chuckled sluggishly past through the
rushes; time creaked in the tangle of
branches overhead, in the gnarled roots
upon which they sat; time was in the
story of a tree that became a boat and
vanished, remembered e only in a tale that
spanned three generations, temporarily
uniting ancient and boy.
It was some time before the captain
saw his daughter, up there on the rise,
waving for them to come up. He rose
up at last, and put the boy on his shoul-
ders, dragging himself painfully up the
slope. It was too much for him. He be-
gan to sweat. Phlegm caught in his throat.
His heart pummelled against the cage of
his ribs. But somehow, straining to the
last, he made it, and he put the boy
down on the grass, smiling at Bella, but
saying nothing for fear all the breath
would burst from his body.
“I’VE been talking things,over with
1 Ted,” Bella said, when she had
dished up the steaming corned meat, the
old man’s unvarying Saturday dinner,
“Dad, we want you to come and live
out with us.”
“Not in all creation of cats,” he said.
“We could do with a bit of company,”
she said, but the wheedling tone set him
on his guard. “Robbie’d love it.”
“I’m staying here, Bella . . . where I
belong.” Instinctively, he glanced out of
the. window. “With the river.”
“But, Dad, we’re not far off the river.”
Chewing doggedly at the meat with his
few yellow teeth, he said, “All ever I saw
from your confounded shack is vines.


MEN
Rows and rows of ’em. Not natural,
forcing their growth like that. Grapes,
I hate the taste of the things.”
She could not resist answering, “We
sold half our crop to the distillery this
year. Not a bad style of brandy they’re
making, I’m told.”
The captain muttered, filling his mouth
with bread.
. “Well, think it over. Dad.”
“I’m staying here,” he said, stubbornly.
Abruptly he laid down his knife and
fork. A hoarse whistle had floated up
from the river. It was a sound to quicken
the blood, underlying so many planes of
remembering. Yet now he had come to
hate the sound. Along this stretch of
river it could belong only to one steamer.
Sure enough, as he pressed his face to
the window, he saw the Rose Everard
steaming up from the lock, fussing along
with its rakish funnel, the paddle-boxes
spreading amidships, like an old lady’s
padded hips. She had the whole broad
river to herself, steaming proudly up-
stream. Her whistle was a hoarse cry of
triumph,
“Damned tourist boat.”
He could not forgive Seligson, that
showman. The river trade had cut
out the best part of 20 years ago;
Captain Hyde’s own boat had been one of
the last, defeated only because the carry-
ing contracts had been met more cheaply
by fast motor trucks; yet here was this
Seligson, this showman, flaunting the
historic old Rose Everard up-river and
down.
Of course, to do it he had cheapened
the whole tradition, turned it into a show-
boat, with crooners and saxophones.
Tourists and local larrikins went joy-
riding. The business ought to be stopped!
“Like to see him take the Rose Ever-
ard up the Darling in some of the seasons
I’ve had,” said the old man.
SULKY, he watched the paddle-steamer
draw abreast, swing leisurely round
the bend towards the bridge, whose
centre-piece was lifting already to allow
her through.
So long as she remained in sight, he
could look at nothing else. In his mind
he followed her course up-river. Selig-
son, of course, would take her no further
than the big billabong, where the pump-
ing-station blocked the skyline, and the
massive pipes ran inland, spilling water
into the irrigation channels that ran mile
after mile, fertilising 50,000 acres of red
earth under the metallic green of the
vines.
But his mind took a more distant
course, following the interminable bends,
the leisurely twists and turns past Swan
Hill, Koondrook, Echuca, Barmah, the
junctions of the ’Bidgee and the Wakool.
He knew every inch of the great river,
the sandspits and bars, the rapids and
reefs, the points round which barges had
to be hauled with caution, the treacher-
ous shallows, the spot where the Emily
had burst her boilers, flinging the Chinese
cook into the upper branches of a red-
gum, the deep channel where one of
Captain Gidley’s sunken barges still lay,
the lost landings where woolclips had been
loaded, the deep-water snags, the bend
where he had laid up a whole night to
repair a smashed paddle-wheel. A hun-
dred images formed and melted in those
brief minutes of watching the Rose Ever-
ard slip beneath the bridge. Then she
was gone.
He pushed his plate away.
“Bella,” he said in a shaky voice that
startled her, “one day when I’m not
here . .. this boy, I worry over him some-
times . . . Growing grapes, that’s no
life for a man. Send him out in the
bush . . . anything ... or to sea. Maybe
when the steamers come again . . .”
“Don’t worry, Dad,” she said indiffer-
ently. “He’s plenty of time before him
yet.”
Time ...
He bent across the table, putting an
arm roughly about the boy’s neck. The
boy took no notice, went on stolidly
eating.
“Make the most of it, boy. Life runs
away if you don’t watch it, runs away
to the sea.”
Clearing away the dishes, Bella said,
“Are you watching the time. Dad?”
He glanced at the old wooden clock
chucking away above the mantelshelf.
“Early yet,” he said, relieved. “Don’t
have to go on till four.”
“Ted’ll call for us before then.”
LJE put his feet up on the horsehair
1 A settee, chuckling at young Robbie’s
tireless enjoyment.
The boy was always fascinated by the
spiked wheel that stood in ( the corner of
the room; he turned it incessantly, or
just stayed before it, touching its bright
metal, its smooth worn feel. He loved to
spin it round, listening to the heavy clack
of its bearings, watching the flash of its
brass in the sunlight.
“You see, Bella,” the old man said,
with a gentle chuckle. “The boy knows
what he wants. I tell you, it’s in the
blood.”
The wheel, which he had had mounted
on a polished red-gum stand, was the
sole relic of his last boat, salvaged just
before they had broken her up. A photo-
graph of her, in a heavy frame, stood on
the mantelshelf to remind him of her
lines ; and on the opposite wall hung a
lithograph of the first steamer he had
worked on, a mere boy of 11. Behind
the flyblown glass, the old Chaffey, with
its thin, tall funnel and huge paddle-
wheel astern, looked a museum-piece,
Visitors found it hard to believe that
quaint vessel had ever really traded on
the river.
Half-past three came, and the old man
grew impatient. There was still no sign
(Continued on page 32.)


Relieve
NASAL | r
SORENESS
Don t suffer—when your nose feels
dried out, or sore, apply Cuticura
Ointment to aid quick relief.
Always keep a tin handy—good
for cuts, bruises and sores. One of
the famous trio—Cuticura Oint-
ment, Soap and Talcum Powder. 53s
OINTMEHT
AUSTRALIAN PUBLICATIONS
SEA WOLVES AND BANDITS, by L. Norman.
Sealing, Whaling, Smuggling and Piracy, Wild Men of Van Diemen’s
Land. Bushraneers and Bandits. Wrecks and Wreckers. Illustrated.
15/- (post. 6d.).
AUSTRALIAN WILD LIFE, by Charles Barrett.
With beautiful full-page photographs, some of which are in colour.
12/6 (post. 6d.).
DENIS O’CALLAGHAN’S LONG LIFE REMINISCENCES AND ADVEN-
TURES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Australian Gold Rushes—Black Savages—Waterless Territory—
Monte Carlo, and World Travels. Illustrated. 25/- (post. 1/2).
THE AUSTRALIAN RHODES REVIEW, No. 5. 1946.
3/6 (post. 4d.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
MA 6511.
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world's best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO..
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BEYOND THE IRON CURTAIN.
All through the peace dealings, as well
as in U.N.0., the Soviet representatives
have employed delaying tactics. The
motive has been variously explained.
One of the reasons most frequently
given has been that Russia counts heavily
on a big depression in America, with a
consequent lessening of American interest
and influence in Europe. Another is that
the longer the delay the worse J. Bull’s
troubles must become, with a like con-
sequent lessening of interest and in-
fluence,
A much more feasible reason would
seem to be that the longer the delay all
round the better chance Russia has of
consolidating its position throughout the
vast area beyond the “iron curtain.”
The most astonishing thing about that
“curtain” is that such a wall should really
work —as a N.Y. “Times” correspondent
has put it, “that in this age of communi-
cation Governments in the middle of the
civilised world have power to conceal
v hen they please and reveal when they
please human events of profound concern
to mankind.”
The correspondent was referring to the
sudden revelations a month or two back
of the shocking famine conditions in
Rumania and to a lesser but apparently
bad enough degree in Tito’s Yugoslavia.
Declaring that as long ago as last autumn
Rumanian officials in Paris “were talking
nervously—under breath —of the
appalling results of drought and requisi-
tions on the population of Moldavia,”
the correspondent added: “They said the
Russians had stripped Eastern Rumania
in order to feed the Soviet Ukraine, also
in a state of semi-starvation, and that
Moldavia was a wasteland, from which
people were fleeing.”
Tito Appeals
On Tito’s urgent appeal for aid aftei
U.N.R.R.A. has stopped its lavish sup-
plies—Tito even undertook to “give full
publicity to any relief shipments that
might be received” —the correspondent
insisted that “This is more than a com-
mentary on the course hitherto followed.
It is an admission that the Tito Govern-
ment, like that of Groza in Bucharest, is
uneasy. It is all very well for the affable
and bemedalled Marshal to ship grain to
bolster up his friends in Rumania and
Albania at election time; the Soviet-
sponsored regimes have to stand or fall
together. So long as supplies are pouring
in from outside it is all very well to sup-
port an army variously estimated at be-
tween 600,000 and 800,000 men, although
a disarmed Italy and a still non-existent
police force of 15,000 at Trieste are the
only possible opponents in sight. But
with hunger stalking the land, and the
United States setting conditions on relief,
the outlook is different”:
We have plenty of evidence that all is
not well behind the Iron Curtain, but when
it lifts abruptly on scenes of starvation in
„ an advanced stage it becomes something
other than a political, ideological or
strategic screen, thrown across half of
Europe to protect the Soviet Union from
some unknown danger. It becomes a wall
shutting off helpless human beings from the
rest of humanity.
This is too high a price to pay for
Russian security. Famine in Eastern Europe
is due to drought and devastation, but it is
also due to policy—to reckless requisitioning
on account of reparations; to deportations
that leave fertile regions uncultivated; to im-
provised and capricious land distribution;
to unplanned “planned economies,” carried
out by incompetent and corrupt adminis-
trators; above all, to the fear, uncertainty
and resistance of the peasants, on whom
the life and prosperity of these lands de-
pend:
Slave Labor
Also happening beyond the “iron cur-
tain” is the reintroduction on an inealeu-
lable scale of slave labor. It was the sub-
ject of a strong protest by the American
Federation of Labor—“a sad relapse into
the chattel slavery of the Dark Ages
a threat to the free labor of all countries
and a challenge to the conscience of
democratic peoples.” N.Y. “Times” in
a leading article called the A.F.L. protest
“unfortunately fully justified by the
facts,” adding:
Forced labor was first introduced into
modern Europe by Soviet Russia. Hitler
spread it to all conquered countries. Most
of the victors in the war are continuing
it, chiefly at the expense of the vanquished,
but sometimes at the expense of their own
people also.
Russia has by far the greatest numbers.
It has close to 5,000,000 war prisoners,
including 3,000,000 Germans and 1,000,000
Japanese; it has deported hundreds of
thousands from the Baltic States, Poland
and other occupied countries; and its own
political-prisoner workers are estimated at
10,000,000 to 17,000,000. How many in
-Philadelphia "Inquirer:”
“ I’LL HAVE SOME MORE OF THE SAME.”
One of many cartoons typifying U.S. opinion of Socialism and “planned economies.”
these classifications are being held by
Russms satellites is unknown.
Uncle Sam’s Challenge
It was a direct challenge to the “iron
curtain” line that America chose the
opemng of the Moscow “peace” con-
ference to lay down a fine of its own.
On this a leading U.S. authority on
world affairs remarked that Uncle Sam’s
stepping in was much more likely to
succeed if the primary purpose—“to exert
American military power upon the Soviet
power”—-was clearly avowed. He added:
“The military and diplomatic risks will
be no larger, indeed they are almost cer-
tain to be smaller, if the Administration
makes it clear to Moscow, to Europe and
to our own people, that this is a strategic
operation—that it is designed not only to
check the expansion of Soviet power but
to bring about its contraction.”
Another comment on Uncle Sam’s
stepping in;—
“Implicit in this challenge is the realisa-
tion that two incompatible systems can
for peace, but not if one func-
xons the light and the other in the
oarK. We cannot co-operate in rebuilding
e world if half of it is invisible.”
f e huge “invisible” area the
wnter refers to. Communist regimes of
one sort and another are now in charge,
1 ne Soviet-made delays iq the peacfemak-
mg and U.N.O. have very largely been
witn the idea of consolidating them.
ineir position, construction and possible
luture have been examined in detail in
an interesting article in “World Report,”
basing its review on the reports of staff
and other correspondents who have made
a special study of conditions along and
e Thp t rj , ..
with pontine
TT-p “World 90,000,000 people.
delavinfr nf thp rv ex Pj anatl ° a f° r lhe
a IS^W^ n
c • t A™, nt f [L con lP leted
fZtrd hL St wlthdraw i r £ m all
™ l occupies, and from that
moment the Communist-controlled Gov-.
ernments, now stretching from Poland
to Albania, must stand Sr fall on their
own.” Because any return of Russian
troops after the peace could hardly fail
to start a war, what Russia now aims at
is leaving the Communist parties in all
the countries along its borders strongly
s 3
entrenched. How long they might be
able to hold such a position after the
withdrawal is « u,le another
“If” sa y S the “World Report” review,
“the Communists of Eastern Europe had
popular support in the lands they rule it
would be easy for them to satisfy Russia’s
demands for the future; but the fact
is in free elections the Communists can
swing only a small minority of the voters
in each of those countries.” That is only
in accordance with the past—of all the
countries now under Russian influence
or domination only Hungary had any-
thing resembling a Communist Govern-
ment between the wars, and that Com-
munist regime (1919) lasted only six
months. Only in Czechoslovakia were
Communists even among the major
parties,
Communism’s Rise
The rise of Communism in Eastern
Europe—or the imposing of it—as
reviewed by “World Report”; “In the
early months of World War 11, Com-
munism lost more than it gained in
Eastern Europe. The Nazis crushed
Czech Communism, Poles who escaped
their country when it was divided be-
tween Germany and Russia in 1939
carried hatred of Russia with them.
Rumanian refugees from Bessarabia and
Northern Bukovina, provinces seized by
Russia in 1940, spread tales of Red
Army violence, through their country.
Rumanian troops soon thereafter joined
the Germans to drive the Russians east-
ward along the Black Sea; Rumanian
victories against Russia wfere celebrated
in Bucharest with enthusiasm.
“Later, as peoples living under Axis
rule sought leadership and organisation
for their undergrounds, the Communists
rose again. Communists led resistance
forces in Greece, where they got U.S.
and British arms, and in Yugoslavia,
where the Partisans under the Communist
Marshal Tito proved stronger than other
anti-Nazi forces.
“In Bulgaria, which had disregarded
German orders to declare war on Russia,
the Soviet Union demonstrated its deter-
mination to have Communists, rather
than sympathetic non-Communists, run-
ning Governments under its Wing.
“A pro-Nazi Government in Sofia fell
before the Red Army reached the
country; an anti-Nazi, but non-Com-
munist. Government took power and sent
the Bulgarian Army to fight Germans.
Russia nevertheless declared war on
Bulgaria; the Red Army marched into
the country to begin an occupation that
continues to this day. A revolt backed
by Moscow threw out the anti-Nazi non-
Communists and put in a Government
dominated by Georgi Dimitrov, a Com-
munist who had spent 22 years in exile,
“Where the Communists conquered or
liberated in Eastern Europe, local
Communists shared in the victory. Com-
munist prestige at that moment probably
stood at its highest. Communist or-
ganisers set up provisional Governments,
absorbing some parties, forcing others
into political alliances which the Com-
munists dominated. Soon they found
that Russia, which backed them with
arms, was proving to be a political
liability. The Red Army lived on the
land ; the Russians sent farm machinery
and food, factories and their output back
to Russia, taking the property of the
very people whose support the Com-
munists desired.
“The first elections in Eastern Europe
were held in the countries nearest to the
West. In Hungary, with the Red Army
present, free elections gave the Com-
munists only 17 per cent, of the ballots,
with a 60 per cent, majority for the
moderate Small Holders’ party. In
Austria, although Russian troops held the
richest portion of the country. Com-
munists got only 2 per cent, of the votes.
“Communists fared better in Czecho-
slovakia, where they polled 38.1 per cent,
of the vote and now are partners, not
dictators, in a National Government
under the non-Communist president,
Edvard Benes.
“There are signs that the Communist
following in Czechoslovakia is declining,
but, as senior partners in a Government
coalition under their leader Gottwald,
they are working hard to make the Two-
Year Plan for economic recovery a
success. They admit the need for Western
loans while Benes admits Czechoslovakia
must retain Russia’s friendship.”
Tito’s Pattern Preferred
Taking that presentation of the Com-
munist control in Czechoslovakia as
correct, it is certainly not the Russian
idea of how the rest of the area under the
“iron curtain” should be run. As the
“World Report” review states, Tito’s
country is more the pattern that Russia
favors; “Almost anybody can be a
Communist in the rest of Eastern Europe,
but Yugoslavia’s Communists are care-
fully selected. Party members number
no more than 150,000. They govern from


Queensland
insurance Co
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
S>6g
“MARS” PLAIN MILLER
lE3
1 :
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFC. COY. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers
Bridge St., Valley, Brisbane.
w
Licensed Manufacturers in Qld. of
MEEHANITE METALS.
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VICTORIA —Servian Machine Tools
(Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne. Q’LAND —Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane. W.A. —The
Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA —Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor
Specialties, Ltd., Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road. BOMBAY
PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East
Asiatic Co., Ltd.
I
A large percentage of economic waste is
caused by tbe destruction of property by FIRE,
and while such waste cannot be eliminated, the
individual can avoid financial devastation by
making adequate use of the valuable and
necessary service rendered to the community
by Insurance Companies.
The prompt service given enables reconstrxic-
tion to commence Immediately, and is the
means of restoring to the workers employment
which might otherwise be lost to them.
The Australian public has been brought to
realise that' the support of Australian indus-
tries by every individual is helping the country
generally to right its difficulties, but continued
patronage is necessary in order to reduce our
country’s “total indebtedness’’ and thus speed
the return to prosperity and financial stability.
FOR
68
Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office; 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
the top down, through a dictatorship led
by Marshal Tito, Yugoslav leaders will-
ing to co-operate with, but not to join,
the Communists are being cast out of
government as ‘reactionaries.’ Com-
munists alone hold the power. Yugo-
slavia’s new Constitution guarantees free
elections, freedom of religion, a free press
and free assembly, but there is little free-
dom in fact. An ‘all party’ coalition is
dominated by Communists in each of the
federated ‘republics,’ the Government
attacks the Catholic Church, the press is
muzzled and the jails are full of the
opposition.”
The worry of Tito —as of every othfcr
one in his position —is how long he can
last if Russia retires (it is Russia’s worry
also). Tito’s followers, in the “World
Report” finding, “believe they are selling
Communism to the people,” but there
are strong predictions that the withdrawal
of the Soviet forces will be the prelude
to civil war.
In the meantime all the countries in the
Soviet-controlled area, with the exception
of Czechoslovakia, appear to be headed
along the lines of a restricted Communist
party Government.
The general set-up is that Albania is
under another dictator, dictated through
Tito by Moscow. Dimitrov, whose Bul-
garian Communists still accept as many
members as they can get, is ousting non-
Communists and selecting a “party elite”
that in time may match the Yugoslav
party as an inner circle within the Bul-
garian “Fatherland Front,” already Com-
munist-dominated. Rumania’s Commun-
ists are purging the memberships of
parties associated with them in govern-
ment. In Poland Communist-controlled
police are weeding out the last leaders of
the anti-Communist opposition. In
Hungary Communists are whittling down
the non-Communist majority in Parlia-
ment by arrests and terrorism.
For How Long?
Looking into how long all this is likely
to last, the “World Report” corres-
pondents find: “The duration of the
Communist grip on the States of Eastern
Europe depends on the degree to which
Communists can consolidate their gains
before the Soviet Army is called back to
Russia. The history of voting in Eastern
Europe since the war ended demonstrates
that Russia cannot count on free elec-
tions to return Parliaments that the Com-
munists can manage. Polish Communists
probably hold no more than 20 per cent,
of the free vote; Bulgaria’s Communists
would do well to get 15 per cent, of all
votes ; Rumanians, free of Russian troops
and Communist police, probably would
shun Communists, whose rule has brought
hunger and near bankruptcy.”
In nearly all the countries that Russia
has been trying to bring under per-
manent control —Czechoslovakia and
Poland perhaps excepted—one great
obstacle has been that the peasants re-
main the backbone of the whole economy
of the State, and they have been especi-
ally hard hit by the Russian tactics:
“Land reform in Rumania and Hungary
backfired because it was done too quickly.
Millions of farm labprers, moved from
Eastern Poland as Russia took over, now
occupy land in what once was German
territory. But they cannot work their
new farms without tools and machinery.
In addition, many of Eastern Europe’s
peasants are Catholics, with a deep-rooted
dislike of Moscow’s Communists.”
The cold truth of the general state of
things in Eastern Europe is that “the
price of the Communist order is to be
counted in the prisons and graveyards of
each satellite State.” Hence, “it is pos-
sible that the withdrawal of Russian
troops from Eastern Europe may be
followed by a wave of anti-Communist
uprisings. It is probable that few anti-
Communist Governments would last long
in an area forced by circumstances to live
at peace with neighboring Russia. Most
of Eastern Europe’s Communists are de-
pending on force, not freedom, to gain
their ends.”
SOCIALISM—U.S. VIEW.
Former U.S. President Herbert
Hoover’s statement that recovery from
the war is being retarded by practically
every European country having gone
over to some form of Socialism wasn’t
a mere political utterance. It represented
very strong American antipathy to
planned economies and Socialist States,
and a growing reluctance to assist them.
The attitude, manifest for months in
American papers, represents a hardening
of opinion, an isolationist view which
asks why should the U.S. pour “billions
in money and credits and U.N.R.R.A.
materials into these Socialist, Communist
and going-Marxist nations, while none
of them shows signs as yet of ever attain-
ing the opulent productivity of our
capitalist system.”
Britain, of course, with a Socialist
Government and increasing nationali-
sation, comes in for sharp comment.
—New York ‘‘Tribune:"
“SMOOTHING THE WAY.”
A common U.S. view of Russian “diplomacy.”
Against the assurance of a N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” writer that economic assistance
for Britain is “insurance against the un-
thinkable catastrophe of the loss of the
only dependable ally in the effort to
contain Soviet expansion and reach a true
world settlement” is a “Wall-street Jour-
nal” comment:
This nation has not yet refused to go to
the rescue of the starving in any land,
whatever may have been the cause of the
tragedy.
The people of the United States will not
refuse now, but one may wonder how long
this country is to, be asked to support a lot
of bureaucrats astride the necks of the men
and women who really want nothing so
much as to be let alone to attempt to
make their own living.
The facts in the case are that the system
of economic freedom rescued men from de-
gradation and that the loss of it has been
accompanied by a return to degradation.
“United States News” gives this state-
ment of the position in various countries:
England: Some 20 p.c. of industry is
being nationalised —coal, banking, cable
and wireless, civil aviation and transport,
with steel to follow “when and if the
Labor party can get up its nerve” ; strikes
are a growing headache, with workers not
seeming to care whether they strike
against the Government or some private
employer.
France: About 23 p.c. of industry
in the process of being taken over
by the Government, while business
people, afraid that the Government will
nationalise their properties, are not mod-
ernising or expanding.
Poland: Some 60 p.c. of industry
socialised, food short, high prices, wages
penurious and industrial production far
below pre-war rates.
Czechoslovakia: The Government has
grabbed about 60 p.c. of industry, coal,
steel and iron production is about one
third below 1937 rates, and over-all in-
dustrial production is about 35 p.c. below
normal.
Russia: Savagely low’ living stan-
dards for all but the 3,000,000 mem-
bers of the Communist party master-
class, recurrent shortages, failures of
ambitious plans, endless promises, serious
inflation and discoveries of graft and in-
competence among Russian bureaucrats
and executives.
Such facts and figures and reasoning
not only convince Americans that, under
their own system, they are doing very
nicely, thank you, but makes them wary
of contributing heavily to the future of
a shaky Socialist Europe.
They may be willing to invest for a
guarantee of European peace and security,
but thoughtful examination of Socialism
and its results in various countries is
producing some growing doubts as to
their ability to back that guarantee. The
“Wall-street Journal,” making full allow-
ance for the effect of war on Britain’s
production and transport, finds that it
fails fully to. account for the crisis which
arises from lack of fuel:
Two main charges are lodged against
the centrally planned economy.
One is that from whatever point it starts
and whatever aim it avows, it sooner or
later develops—usually sooner —into a sys-
tem of rationing scarcity.- We see that in
Great Britain. We have seen it for a
quarter of a century in Russia, and we see
it on the continent of Europe, where the
plartned economies with their rules and de-
crees produce want while the nations like
Belgium and Switzerland, where a degree
of economic free choice prevails, live com-
fortably.
The other charge against the planned
economy is that it must coerce; that to
secure the conformance necessary to its
planning it must invade those personal and
spiritual freedoms the denial of which is
a denial of the dignity of the individual.
In the general U.S. view the condition of
practically every Socialist or Communist
State in the world is refuting “the theory
that Socialism is efficient,” Americans
are being shown in no uncertain fashion
by their press that “ in every one of these
countries —Britain, France, Czechoslo-
vakia, etc. —is confusion and lack of
production accompanied by growing
lassitude on the part of workers and
managers alike. Blackmarkets are ram-
pant.”
Continuing on that line in a keen com-
parison between production under private
and Government ownership, Lawrence
Fertig in the N.Y. “World-Telegram” ex-
presses the commonly held view that “it
is the United States under private capital-
ism which is spending billions in Ameri-
can production to shore up the tottering
Socialist countries of Europe while they,
in turn, express displeasure at our system
and doubt as to its soundness and endur-
ance. Here is irony with a vengeance”:
No country—not even the United States
—ls rich enough to survive the inefficiency
and wastefulness of Socialism, which is an
intellectual dream that must be paid for by
the sweat of everyone who works. Pri-
vate capitalism, on the other hand, has
proved itself efficient. It has increased
the real earnings of every worker more
than fourfold in less than 90 years in this
country-T-despite the decrease in working
hours from nearly 70 to 40 hours per week.
In addition, it has preserved liberty
of the individual. These are facts which
no amount of theorising can refute.
Even without the examples of the
British system, which has its own peculiar
problems, or the American system, which
didn’t suffer the ravages of bombing,
Americans still find substantial material
for their side of the Socialist-private-
enterprise argument. Some of their most
convincing evidence is drawn from the
respective conditions of Belgium and
France. Fertig presents the Belgium illus-
tration :
The Belgian people refused to go in for
Socialism. They wanted economic recovery
above everything, and they refused to adopt
the State controls which can be put into
effect only at the expense of increased pro-
duction.
Belgium depends upon the relatively free
play of market forces to accomplish what
no Government edicts could possibly
achieve.
The shops of Belgium are filled with food,
clothing and other necessities. Her capital
equipment is being replenished by a flow
of new investment without benefit of Gov-
ernment command. While prices are high,
wages are comparatively high, too.
The vigor of Belgium’s recovery is indi-
cated by the estimated 1947 export figure
of 55 billion francs compared to exports of
29 billion in 1946. Today her production
of goods is about 108 per cent, of the pre-
war average.
From the evidence being presented to
them on every side —the foregoing is only
a small sample of the steady and growing
stream of it—Americans can only draw
Fertig’s conclusion, that “Socialism and
planned economics are so wasteful that
they cannot support themselves.” They
are being shown plainly what Sir David
Maxwell Fyfe described as “the Socialist
fallacy that there is a bottomless pit
from which the people can draw, but to
which they need not contribute.” How
long Americans will continue contributing
to the pit so that others may draw from it
seems to be the question, and, judging
by their shrewd examination of the situa-
tion, the answer seems to be not very
long.


Factory Space
Available
Hr
■ 11
.
7
'. m
llfy.*. ‘ %
• .
w
|H
111111
'^#vi
BJS
mm.
T‘ . >&g3
A,” above, shows
alternative arrange-
ments. if door is
required, window
above must be
deleted.
-
<:
7
ts™pQ
These all-steel prefabri-
cated buildings provide an
answer to the factory space
problem where an easily erected
and completely fire, weather and
vermin-proof building is required.
Their usefulness extends to the farm,
d where they would make ideal shearing sheds.
Due to material shortages, uncovered frame-
work only can be provided at present. However,
these buildings are designed to take iron or fibro
covering without modification.
The 40ft. Armco building can be provided with alternative
door arrangements, as illustrated, and in lengths of any
multiple of 15 feet. Uncovered frames are also available for
Armco Prefabricated Steel Buildings in 20ft., 30ft. and 60ft. span.
ARMCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
PREFABRICATED
STEEL BUILDINGS
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney N.S.W.
422 Collins Street, Melbourne Victoria
319-325 Queen Street, Brisbane Queensland
C.M.L. Building, 41 King William Street, Adelaide, South Australia.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3513
Wednesday, June 11, 1947
THE SIGN OF THE DOUBLE CROSS.
Dunne the dehate on the salary steal there were bitter denunciations of the attitude of Melbourne’s Murdoch Press.”
Marcia Chifley to Marcus Murdoch: “You cannot harm me now!”


The Buletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the ' White Man
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
INew Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
LEGALISED THEFT.
Members of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, some of whom still hate Canberra,
got away from it at the week-end
with red-rimmed eyes and singing heads
(the House had ploughed its way through
17 ill-considered bills in 20 hours), but
for the most part with pleasing anticipa-
tions of loot.
For majorities in both Chambers had
got away with the shameful measure rais-
ing members’ salaries from £lOOO to
£l5OO p.a., with £2OO more for the Oppo-
sition-leader in the House and another
£lOO for the one in the Senate—at the
moment a leader without followers. When
Parliament meets again, 16 new Senators
elected last September will have taken
their seats. Not one of these worthies
has a shadow of a moral claim to the £5OO
increase. All were presumably satisfied
with the salary and emoluments which
obtained when they signed their nomi-
nation papers ; anyway, none gave any
hint of dissatisfaction over the air, in
print or on the hustings.
The same is true of all the voting
members of the House, 74—the member
for the Northern Territory votes only on
matters concerning his electorate. This
truth was admitted by Mr. Rosevear, who
descended from the Chair to make an-
other of his partisan speeches. It was
vigorous in manner and expression, but
morality was left out of the argument.
Mr. Rosevear, as member for Dailey,
pointed but that the Constitution
authorised Parliament to be the judge
of its own remuneration and that
this privilege had been availed of
in 1907 and 1920. Proceeding
from this statement of facts, which
nobody disputed or could dispute,
he argued, what most taxpayers would
dispute, that these precedents—each of
which was contested by taxpayers at the
time —warranted a still more massive
appropriation from the public purse of
which no notice was given when the
parties to the appropriation were up for
re-election. He argued also that during
the war pay-increases had been sanctioned
by the Parliaments in Queensland, Vic-
toria, Westralia and Tasmania, and after
the war by the British Parliament, with-
out mentioning that the initiative had in
each case come from a Labor Govern-
ment.
During the debate in the House a great
deal was said about the additional bur-
dens imposed on members by the growth
of population in electorates —it has been
very small in some —and by the Federali-
sation of “social-security” and income
taxation and the institution of “controls”
of this, that and the other thing. Not
so much was heard on these matters from
Senators, and little or nothing from
those about to retire.
Senators have very few impor-
tunate constituents to deal with. They
have no call to set themselves up as
agents in offices, as many Ms.H.R. have
chosen to do in a manner which would
have revolted the soul of Edmund Burke.
Their sittings are few and far between,
and , are generally 'short, except
when an occasional “all-nighter” is
demanded by the Government at the end
of a session. On £l5OO a year, plus
£1 2s. 6d. a sitting, plus a postage allow-
ance of £BO a year, plus the use of
secretaries, plus free travel over the Gov-
ernment railways of the Commonwealth
and New Zealand, plus free air passages
which T.-A.A. is preparing for them, plus
committee work at £2 2s. a day and plus
overseas trips to the 1.L.0. or some
other racket, they will have the softest
snaps in the Southern Hemisphere.
Almost the entire body of middle-class
taxpayers on fixed incomes who have had
to sell scrip and draw heavily on their
bank balances to pay taxes, by way of
supporting all manner of “Labor” ex-
travagance, would change places with
them, even on £lOOO a year and the rest.
Overseas travel, with all expenses paid
and salaries piling up, is not, of course, a
privilege reserved for Senators, though
the Senators chosen for it have in the
“Labor” time been exclusively “Labor.”
It would be hard to name a member of
Caucus in the last Parliament who hasn’t
had the agreeable experience. There are
not only Ministers but minor members
such as Senator Grant, the exuberant
author of Through Six Gaols —who
have enjoyed it more than once ; and it
goes on all the time. There is always
somebody away, generally with his wife,
if he has one, and invariably with women-
folk and a parcel of officials in the case
of Ministers.
There were gaps in the ranks last week,
even before the Salary Grab Bill was
steered tp the Statute Book. Needless to
say, they did not imperil its passage.
Aviation Minister Drakeford was in
North America with his wife, daughter
and secretaries, attending some conference
or other. Young Mr. Daly (Martin) was in
Europe on 1.L.0. “business” or something
of the sort. Transport Minister Ward,
himself intent on 1.L.0. “business,” and
also on a visit to Russia, which doesn’t
belong to the 1.L.0., had set out in a
plane, a star from Paddington totally
surrounded by satellite officials; and
Mrs. Ward was catching up in another.
Yet another plane carried Defence
Minister Dedman, Mrs. Dedman and
party and the fortunes of the wool in-
dustry (or so it is alleged). And Immi-
gration and Information Minister Calwell,
complete with party, is presently to hit
the breeze for Britain, tarrying perhaps
in Palestine to feast his eyes on the Tel-
Aviv street which has been named after
him. Four Ministers away for months ;
and it is alleged that 19 are necessary!
The aggregate cost of these mostly
unnecessary expeditions is never explicitly
revealed, and it is inconceivable that any
of the leading expeditionaries finds him-
self out of pocket when he collects his
arrears of salary. Nor can it be pretended
that this craze for free travel is necessary
for health reasons. A pretence was made
during the debates that members were
wearing themselves to shadows in their
country’s cause, but all the facts are
against it.
In the Senate there was a private
gathering of septuagenarians* five Sena-
tors and an M.H.R., as a farewell
to four of their number defeated
at the polls nine months ago. Absent
from the party was an octogenarian who
was a Minister nine months ago and
who has since had a very long
trip abroad. In the House at the same
time, making-lively contributions to the
discussion on salaries, were two former
Prime Ministers, as well as a third, who
is Mr, Chifley’s principal adviser. No, 1
is rising 83 and has an unbroken record
of Parliamentary service since 1894. No.
2 is just on 67, and after nearly 28 years
in the House is vigorous alike in mind
and body. No. 3, though he had a de-
pression breakdown, never misses a sit-
ting and shows no signs of failing intellec-
tual powers in his 71st year. Another
former Prime Minister, who retired in
1921 after 30 years of Parliamentary
life, is still an interested spectator of
events at 88. A 1901-22 Senator was the
same age when he died recently.
The last Premier of Queensland, now
Lieut.-Governor, was well in the seventies
before he made way for Mr. Hanlon.
His opposite number in Westralia was
67 when he ceased to be Premier, and is
still going strong in Government House
\ at 81. Before he dissolved his Parliament
for the March election there were in the
Council an ex-President of 78, and in
the Assembly two ex-Premiers, one 68
and the other 74, a Minister looking for-
ward to his 72nd birthday and a former
Minister and Opposition-leader who
owned to 80.
Indeed, Australian public life abounds
in healthy old men to an extent un-
matched elsewhere. Politicians' rarely
die in the late forties or the
early fifties, as —sadly attested by the
files of papers like “Reveille” —many
thousands of first-war Diggers have done.
And any A.M.P. man would agree that
the young homekeeping fellows among
them have a greater expectation of life
than servicemen returned from tropi-
cal campaigns and from prison camps,
especially the victims of Oriental
savagery. To these, many of them
broken men, the predominant party
at Canberra callously refused a 35.-a-day
subsistence allowance while plotting the
£5OO-a-year increase for themselves.
Mr. Menzies, one of the few legislators
to whom public service has involved a
real sacrifice of income, put his finger on
a fatal weakness of the salary grab as it
concerns “Labor”;
Wages have been pegged from February
1, 1942. Until the wage-pegging regulations
are repealed, we, as a Parliament, should
respect them. I find it impossible to re-
concile a 50 per cent, increase in Parlia-
mentary allowances with wage-pegging
while it continues for other members of
the community.
“Labor” has not found it impossible.
Yet in the nature of events “Labor” poli-
ticians, their ill-gotten gains reposing in
their pockets, will find themselves in the
company of unionists on whom wage-
pegging was stubbornly imposed, who
were induced by Communists to strike
on that account, who, after serious inter-
ruptions of industry which are still having
evil effects, returned to work for another
7s. or 9s. a week, and who have been
informed by a very high wage-fixing
authority that it is useless for them, how-
ever skilled they may be —and many of
them are fitters and turners who did fine
work during the war —to expect another
pound a week. Developments in Aus-
tralia and abroad placed the Communists
in the position of batting on a bad
wicket; but how are these “Labor” poli-
ticians now going to bowl these ruffians
out? And how can they look wage-
pegged unionists in the face?
India and Australia.
India’s crisis is not over with the party
leaders’ acceptance of the Viceroy’s pro-
posals for breaking the deadlock in the
constitution-making procedure. The only
change in British plans is one for hasten-
ing withdrawal.
The crisis was produced by the failure
of the Indians to agree even to work the
machinery devised for settlement by them-
selves of their own problem: the Con-
stituent Assembly, recommended to them
by the British Government. Never has
British statesmanship been more sorely
tried, and its latest effort in composing
a solution —at any rate, for the present
impasse —is a masterly stroke.
The solution is briefly this;
(1) Since the Moslems’ League will not
attend a single Constituent Assembly in
which Hindus have the majority, Mr.
Jinnah and his followers shall have a
similar Constituent Assembly of their own.
(2) The British Government will pass a
short bill to transfer power this year, on
a basis of Dominion status, to either a
united India or to two Indias (Hindustan
and Pakistan), in accordance with the de-
cisions made by the two factions them-
selves, separately or together.
(3) Both Assemblies will enjoy the full
right, as the original single body did, to
decide whether the new States shall remain
within the British Commonwealth, or shall
be completely independent.
(4) In the same way, the Punjab and
Bengal provincial assemblies will meet in
two parts to decide on the proposed par-
tition of those provinces and settle any
lines of partition.
(5) The N.-W. Frontier Province and
Baluchistan can opt, apparently by referen-
dum, to decide which of the Assemblies
(if there are two) they will join, and agree-
ments with the tribes beyond the n.-w.
frontier will have to be negotiated by the
appropriate successor authority.
Briefly, Lord Mountbatten rejects any
onus on Britain to remain in India,
nominally as arbitrator, but actually as
a cockshy for the Indian factions. There
is placed in the hands of Indians them-
selves the job of settling their Own future.
If they want to live in unity, they are free
to do so ; if not, they are just as free to
divide their country, their lives, faiths
and economic interests as far as they wish.
The answer to Mr. Jinnah’s question of
Gandhi —“Where does this partition
stop?”—is one they must find themselves.
The British could not say more plainly
that they intend to play no part in these
decisions; they are, in fact, preparing
to “quit India” even sooner 'than the
scheduled date a twelvemonth hence.
In making this clear Britain has never-
theless offered both parties the highest
gift in her power. The British Govern-
ment will by legislation grant without
delay to both Hindustan and Pakistan
(if they should separate) Dominion
status within the British realm. Congress
India may spurn this honor in favor of its
mooted “republic,” but in so doing it
would probably encourage Pakistan to
accept it. Which, considering all that
is involved, is the neatest possible British
retort to the Hindus’ recent fulminations.
Gandhi had thought up a last-minute
plan of his own for a new single interim
Government with Dominion status till
1948, with Britain sharing responsibility
for shaping India’s future destiny, what-
ever it might be, and accepting the duty
of keeping civil order meanwhile. It
did not need Gandhi’s contemporaneous
statement, “Even if the whole of India
burns I will never give up an inch of
India or concede Pakistan,” to expose
the hollowness of his “plan.” The Vice-
roy ignored it.
Lord Mountbatten has played his hand
with consummate skill, and a eulogy of
his services justly found place in the
forefront of the Prime Minister’s an-
nouncement to the House of Commons.
He has more than euchred the Congress
party’s scheme to keep Britain on the
Indian stand as an Aunt Sally for all and
sundry to shy at. He has cut
straight to the heart of every issue. He
has even robbed the British Conservatives
of any opening for criticism. He has laid
out, not merely in theory, but on the
work-table and in full sight, the plain
choice of unity or partition. He has
given the two sides the equality they
demanded in assemblies of their own and
identical status. Their regions are
not merely offered election of Dominion
rank or independence ; they are to be
given the former at once, and they can,
at option, make themselves independent
as soon as they like. They can settle
their own riots and disorders. In a
blunt, terse sentence, by way of paren-
thesis, Lord Mountbatten warned them
that all India is existing on a very
narrow food margin.
Not the least masterly feature of Lord
Mountbatten’s broadcast was his complete
ignoring of the ugly monster which had
in the previous week reared its head in
a way which sobered all Indian factional
leaders —the realisation that partition, by
ruining the Indian Army, would leave
the more populous areas, the vital in-
dustrial regions, without the traditional
means of combating mass violence. Tfhe
Viceroy’s very silence on this point, along
with his stressing that the British would be
“quitting India” in advance of schedule,
spoke more tellingly than words could
have done. The Nehrus and the Gandhis
and the Jinnahs can pursue their strife
now to their hearts’ content, if they in-
sist ; it is only their own cause which
will suffer.
They are, in the common phrase, up
against it. It is theirs, at will, to shatter
the whole political economy of the Indian
slab-continent by dividing every last acre
and herd and working occupation into
communal portions. This imbecile pro-
cess will chop up railways and trunk
roads, fields, villages and industries. It
will, as a writer in the Melbourne “Age”
points out, leave Pakistan with most grain
and rice lands, and Hindustan with most
factories. It will leave the infantry in
the Moslem division of the Army, and
the gunners and A.S.C. with the Hindus.
But when they have done all that, the
factions will still face the ultimate, in-
divisible core of their dispute, for geo-
graphy will defy them. At the last,
however divided, either the two com-
munities must live alongside each other,
or one of them must perish or submit.
Moreover, with the Moslems holding
the frontier lands and the chief fighting
units of the Indian Army, partition would
be decided, not by right or majority vote,
but by force of arms. Coercion, indeed,
could hardly be stayed from the very
onset. India is already constitutionally
divided in one sense —into British India
and the Princely States. The Princes, on
behalf of their States, have announced
their willingness to resign their inde-
pendence and come into a united India,
but only into a united India. The
most powerful and important of
them would certainly side with a Pakistan,
under Dominion status, rather than with
a Hindu republic set up in challenge of
both Moslem and British feeling.
It is no wonder that, with the prospect
that the Congress party will have to take
a pull on itself, Mr. Nehru is not feeling
so well. Yet “maybe,” as he says, “in
this way we shall reach a united India
sooner than we would have done other-
wise, and on a surer foundation.” The
Mountbatten announcement is, in short,
a cold douche on the hotheads. They
are left even without ground for com-
plaint to U.N.O. on the score of in-
fringement of the principles of the
Atlantic Charter, which affirms “the
right of all peoples to choose the form
of government under which they will
live.” The Indian parties have the Char-
ter’s freedom handed to them on a
plate.
But even if the solution should satisfy
India, that will not be the end of the
business as it affects Britain and the
Dominions. There will be mighty con-
sequences for all of us to be thrashed
out yet, and not least for Australia.
Indians are already a't odds with the
South African Government over the
citizen rights of Indian communities in
Natal. They desire to have abolished the
restrictions against the entry of Indians
into this country in the form in
which these restrictions have been im-
posed for many years. How are South
Africa and Australia going to meet the
challenges in the day, now at hand, when
there are either one or two new
Dominions in India of equal standing
with us in the British realm?
The course which India pursues now
may well be governed by our attitude.
Indians fought loyally and valiantly
on nearly all fronts in both world wars.
They faced a common peril with the rest
of the Empire in 1942-43. If they decide
that, for this present era at any rate, their
future will be safer within the member-
ship of the British Commonwealth
than outside it, can Australia or
South Africa refuse to recognise India’s
claims to equality within that Common-
wealth? Neither country could possibly
accept such masses of Indian immigrants
as would swamp it, but is there no alter-
native such as would satisfy Indian pride
without threatening, much less sacrificing,
the racial and political foundations of
both countries?
It is necessary for Australians to be ac-
quainted with the full implications of the
events now in course on the other side of
the Indian Ocean, and with the first-class
issues which will inevitably arise to en-
gage Australian statesmanship. The crisis
is not for India alone, or for India and
Britain, but for the whole Emgire.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"No Pressure."
There was little cause for reassurance in
Mr. Chifley’s statement to Parliament
that “no pressure” had been brought to
bear on Qantas before it agreed to sell
that portion of its shares which were not
already national property —meaning, pre-
sumably, no condemnation of Qantas-
used aerodromes or anything of the sort.
What had happened, Mr. Chifley said,
was that Qantas had found itself in diffi-
culty about securing sufficient dollars to
buy Constellation aircraft for its over-
seas services. Though the “Government”
was ready with approval, it would have
meant either a guaranteed overdraft or
a subsidy; and ttuS best way out was to
take over the rest of the company shares.
That, in any case, was in accord with the
“Labor” policy of operating overseas air-
lines.
If this was not a foreclosure in advance
it is difficult to give any other descrip-
tion. It leaves a nasty taste in the mouth
—almost as nasty as that produced by
savoring of the Trans-Australia Airways
transaction.
The Commonwealth Government has
done little for the development of civil
aviation. Until the Americans came Aus-
tralian aerodromes were the worst in the
English-speaking world. Their areas were
restricted; their equipment, limited to
the barest necessities, was generally out
of date. Only military pressure provided
an improvement.
Despite all discouragement, however,
including back-breaking taxation, Qantas
and A.N.A. had in quarter of< a century
built up fine and popular services. They
and branch-line businesses owned by
other companies have an unsurpassed
record for safety and reliability.
They were only reaching the stage when
shareholders could expect to reap a little
of the fair reward of faith, persistence
and enterprise when they were suddenly
assailed by the doctrinaire crowd at Can-
berra, which set out to make use of all
the experience which private enterprise
had gained since the end of the first Ger-
man war, and that without paying for
it, in order to murder one company by
undercutting and unfair competition and
to swallow the other.
If there were any certainty that
Government ownership would bring
about better conditions in air transport
—though under private ownership they
were very good indeed and prospects were
bright—there might be some excuse. But
it is notorious that Government attempts
to manage transport in Australia have
been a horrible failure in every way. In
the field of land transport equipment,
service and finance are alike unspeakable.
When private airlines, which pay taxes,
are dead, bled to death by undercutting
on the part of tax-free concerns, them-
selves tax-eaters, and when the blight of
bureaucratic management descends on
expropriated enterprises, costs and fares
on the airlines will certainly become the
highest in the world. The enter-
prises themselves will follow the pre-
cedents of the Commonwealth Shipping
Line, the Commonwealth and State rail-
ways, the State-owned tramlines and
buses, A-B.C. and a host of other
“socialised” enterprises of which the nor-
mal state is either extinction or chronic
bankruptcy.
Three Bs in N.S.W.
While Parliament was contributing a
racket of its own to all the other rackets
it was a comfort to learn from Mr.
Chifley that there would be a proper in-
quiry into the operations of the Lands
Sales Control Office in Sydney and “any
associated matters dealt with in the Can-
berra branch.” Not a “departmental in-
vestigation,” but “a public inquiry on
oath.”
It came out that, notwithstanding the
tragic housing position, in part caused by
shortage of building materials, huge sup-
plies of bricks had been delivered from
the Government yards to the Sydney Turf
Club and other apparently favored pur-
chasers. Mr. Wurth, chairman of the
Public Service Board, was instructed to
go into the ugly business and report to
Premier McGirr, who had been Minister
of Housing; and this Mr. Wurth has
done. He is an able and conscientious
civil servant, incapable of straining or
concealing the truth, as he sees it, or of
setting down aught in malice. But his
report reveals the limitations of the civil-
service mind and outlook. He presents
disgraceful facts without apparently con-
sidering them disgraceful, and the central
fact on which everything turns, the dread-
ful housing situation —to which there has
been added in Sydney, in consequence
of fierce rainstorms, thousands of dwell-
ings urgently needing repairs—he does
not mention at all.
Mr. Wurth is satisfied that 123,250
Government bricks were placed at the
disposal of a Mr. Whittle for “restoration”
of storm-damaged buildings on Rosehill
racecourse, one of the Sydney Turf Club’s
string of licensed betting joints. A Labor
and Industry Department perniit is re-
quired in all brick-supply cases, and Mr.
Whittle had one for 10,000 bricks, but
even this was not produced ; nor was its
production demanded. Whittle got his
123,250 bricks for the betting joint —
where, according to a man from the
Crown Solicitor’s office, a great deal of
“unauthorised work” was done on bars,
stables, an official stand, a ladies’ lounge,
a tote building, another for vets., even “a
pie-stall and servery”—and Whittle
got another 23,750 for “renovations, etc.,
to the Astra Hotel, Bondi,” without ex-
press authority from the Department of
Labor and Industry.
Another firm of building contractors
took delivery of 20,250 new bricks for
Automatic Totalisators (only secondhand
bricks were to be used), and 117,250 went
to an icecream concern, whose depart-
mental permit specified, first, that bricks
must not be used, and, on second
thoughts, that they “must be procured
from outside the County of Cumberland.”
The Government brickyards are in the
heart of the County of Cumberland.
Several other transactions in which per-
mit requirements or regulations went
west brought the number of bricks sup-
plied in such a fashion as to warrant
“fault” being “found with State brick-
works management” to 272,250. “Three
BY MUTUAL CONSENT.
“Said Mr. Gandhi, ‘The Viceroy had no hand in partition. He is as much opposed
to it as the Congress party itself.’ ”
“Gentlemen, I couldn’t separate these lads; but they’ve separated themselves.”
point six per cent, of total deliveries,”
is Mr. Wurth’s disarming conclusion. “Yes,
your Honor, it’s true I killed the baby,
but it was only a little one.”
For what the houseless must regard
with savage indignation Mr. Wurth
blames nobody much (“error of judg-
ment” is his harshest expression), and
he has effusive praise for Labor and In-
dustry (“properly and efficiently adminis-
tered its controls”), Public Works (“exer-
cised proper control”) and the brickworks
(“effectively re-established and efficiently
administered”). For Whittle and the
Sydney Turf Club, that wonderful
Japanese-war weapon, McKell’s V-P.-l,
he hasn’t an unkind word.
The heroic age has passed with so many
of the heroes, and been succeeded by an
age of hardfaced men and women on
the make. The affairs of this country,
certainly many of the things intimately
related to home and domestic life, are
largely determined by Booze, Betting and
Bureaucracy. It is appallingly evident
from the Wurth report that 8.3 is no pro-
tection against the other Bs.
"Any Beef Today?"
Nobody, except perhaps innocents on the
Rationing and Prices Commissions, be-
lieves that all is as it should be with
meat. There has been a blackmarket in
the stuff for years. Butchers here, there
and everywhere are being fined for over-
charging, and for dodging income tax;
quick fortunes have been made out of
meat, and an aura of dishonesty, muddle
and suspicion has hung round the
like blowflies round a bush slaughteryard.
A challenge to the whole messy busi-
ness came out of North Queensland when
butchers in Cairns, Mareeba, Millaa
Millaa, Malanda, Yungaburra, Atherton
and Gordonvale announced that, because
they were convinced that the country was
chock-a-block with meat, they would sell
it without coupons after June 9. The
Rationing Commissioner announced that
they would be prosecuted. Their spokes-
man, a Cairns butcher, replied that the
threat would have no effect.
When huge quantities of tinned meats
are available everywhere at present, not to
mention cooked meat, the rationing scheme
is absurd.
The rebels challenged the Ration-
ing Commissioner to say how much
tinned meat there was in Australia.
Meat Board figures give the amount avail-
able for canning in 1947 at 47,000 tons,
of which Britain has agreed to take
25,000 tons. In 1939 Australia canned
15,620 tons, of which 6600 tons were
exported.
The N.Q. butchers assert that if ration-
ing had been successful there would not
now be such Quantities of tinned meat,
and that the piling up of the tinned
article means that people are not short
of meat. The Cairns man said what has
already been said about petrol rationing
and “control” of real-estate and second-
hand-car sales: “The regulations are be-
ing retained merely as part of the policy
of regulating society.”
All this was going on while the Federal
Parliament was racing into recess, the
thoughts of the majority full of a 50 p.c.
rise in salaries. But somebody caught
Senator Courtice, the Customs Minister,
and extracted from him the old words
“conference,” “investigate,” “report,”
nothing being wanting but the formula
“It’s a matter for” . . . The “conference”
is to be between meat interests and Prices
and Rationing heads. The N.Q. butchers’
complaints are to be “investigated.” The
Senator himself is to “call for a report.”
Meantime the coupon strike has been
suspended.
In the House Mr. Francis, from More-
ton, asked the Prime Minister what he
proposed to do about the N.Q. butchers.
The P.M. referred him to Mr. Pollard
(Agriculture). Mr. Pollard asked Mr.
Francis to put his question on the notice
paper. Mr. Francis said to a reporter
“He is side-stepping,”
Aren’t they all?
The Ineffectual A.C.T.U.
For what is supposed to be the ruling
body of trade-unionism in this country,
the executive of the A.C.T.U. made a
singularly poor showing at this special
four-day series of meetings in Sydney.
One long-winded resolution affirmed
“the traditional trade-union hostility to
war,” and urged the Federal Govern-
ment to “exert its influence against” inter-
national armaments. A fatuity more
fatuous because certain key unions which
the A.C.T.U. is supposed to control show
the liveliest partiality for war in the Aus-
tralian industrial world, and the A.C.T.U.
either cannot “exert its influence against”
the only war it knows or else knows no
“traditional hostility” towards it. •
This matter was, in point of fact, the
main reason for the A.C.T.U. executive’s
meeting. The daily press exhorted it to
tighten its control over unions persisting
in “unauthorised” strikes. The wharfies’
ban on Dutch shipping has persisted
despite the A.C.T.U.’s denunciation of
it, and the exhibition of utter impotence
revealed during the engineers’ strike in
Victoria made the supposedly sovereign
council of trade-unionism look like some-
thing any red-ragger could kick about as
he wished. And nothing at all happened
at these meetings. The executive was
simply not game to attempt anything.
Its “discussion” of the Dutch shipping
ban was about as effectual as anything
any two hobos might say in a pub over a
pot of beer. It emitted not one smallest
reflection of Trades Hall promises to
prosecute an “energetic drive” against
Commos in the unions. As for its futile
rules against rebellious strike-drunk
unions, it resolved merely to “ask” an
emergency committee of itself to “draft
recommendations which, if approved by
the full executive, will be submitted to
congress next September.” With all the
ignominy of its changes of mind about
a general strike for last May Day —a
scheme that died the death early, but not
through any influence of the A-C.T.U.
executive —the meeting solemnly frowned
upon another one-day general strike
mooted for July 1 as propaganda for a
40-hour week.
Federal Parliamentarians’ grab of
another £5OO a year has been condemned
by many unions and by at least one of
the State Labor Councils, which are
branches of the A.C.T.U. Yet this execu-
tive session approved it as “in accordance
with A.C.T.U. policy on wages,” adding
that wage-pegging should be abolished.
Nobody has ever heard of any A.C.T.U.
policy that approved of privileged per-
sons dipping into the Treasury for extra
salary, without reference to any arbiter
outside their own ranks, whenever they
decide they want it. And, although
wage-pegging has been “relaxed,” it re-
mains.
Of course the elections for the
A.C.T.U. executive take place in Sep-
tember, and collectively or individually
its members would not dare do anything
that might disturb the uneasy balance be-
tween militants and moderates registered
in the complexion of the present execu-
tive. No wonder the Chifleys got tired of
treating that creature as the dog on which
to try their industrial proposals.
Our Grand Old River*
Next time anybody starts arguing about
the Murray it can be stated that it is
about 1600 miles from source to mouth
(1366 miles have been navigated by
steamers) and, excluding tributaries, is
among the “12 large rivers of the world,”
though the combined length of river and
tributaries, “navigable in times of good
flow,” is 3312 miles, and puts it among
the “six largest of the world.” The
Murray had its greatest recorded flow
in the 1917 flood, when it reached
29,350,000 acre-feet, and its smallest in
the 1914 drought, when it fell to 1,894,000
acre-feet.
Old-timers given to debate can accept
those figures as official. They come from
A Short History of the River Murray
Works, by J. H. O. Eaton, S.A. repre-
sentative on the River Murray Commis-
sion. It might be added that in 1914 at
Mildura, 548 miles from the mouth, and
after the waters of the Murrumbidgee,
Lachlan, Mitta, Ovens, Goulburn, Cam-
paspe, Loddou and lesser streams had
been added, you could walk across the
Murray bed without wetting your boots.
Three years later the river was 60 miles
wide just above Mildura. The stream
had cut new courses for itself; steamers
lost themselves on the waters and no-
body drank beer at the Gol Gol pub for
a month.
Neither set of conditions will ever
occur again. Mr. Eaton gives, with facts,
figures, diagrams and quotations, the
story of the storage and utilisation of
Murray Valley waters and has a caustic
comment;
Unfortunately, State boundaries were
fixed without regard to the interests of the
respective States or possible complications
arising from riparian rights in the waters
of the system—a cause of many disputes
and delays in the development of irrigation
and of unnecessary expenditure in divert-
ing trade from its natural to artificial chan-
nels to satisfy the demands of centralised
interests.
The book is so informative and instruc-
tive that it wouldn’t be a bad idea to
place copies in high-school libraries. The
author has another note on the effect of
Big-City control of rural development
when he quotes a resolution from an
inter-colonial conference in Melbourne in
1863: —
In the opinion of the conference the
commerce, population and wealth of Aus-
tralia can be largely irtcreased by render-
ing navigable and otherwise utilising the
great rivers of the interior such as the
Murray, Edward, Murrumbidgee and
Darling.
It has taken us nearly 75 years to reach
a stage of development of the Riverina
which, at best, can only be described as
a beginning. Admittedly much has been
done, from the construction of the Hume,
Burrinjuck and Wyangala dams, the locks
and weirs, the irrigation systems, to the
running of the Morgan-Whyalla pipeline
230 miles to make a city bloom in the
saltbush on distant Spencer Gulf. But
it is only a beginning, and a beginning
that has literally been forced upon the
capital-city Governments, a beginning
often halted and sometimes threatened
with extinction by inter-city, rather than
inter-State, jealousies.
But Murray Valley development has
survived and is gaining strength. There
is indeed a lusty Murray Valley Develop-
ment League, and people of vision in all
the vast Riverina and its adjacent lands
at last see some hope of a national recog-
nition of the obvious truth that in the
Murray River system lies a tremendous
national opportunity.


m
&m^
CRAVEN#
*##*£ specially to ptevent
sole Hmuts
i&’^&diSfcUlUU
Obtainable
Id lO’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL Points
Parliament has once more (gone into
retirement without discussing peace
treaties or debating foreign policy. When
the session was closing and heads were
nodding Dr. Evatt made some remarks
incidental to tabling “a 33-page state-
ment.” He is to get the Empire conference
(or some of it) at which he hopes to
arrange a common policy for an early
Japanese peace settlement, “increasingly
desirable,” he said ; but hfe has not been
precise as to resumption of trade before
the peace treaty is signed. Meanwhile
illegal trade and smuggling arfc going on.
Gut-lines, bought in Japan for 2s. each,
are selling at £2 on the blackmarket.
Customs raids on homes in Queensland
towns in search of Jap gut-lines are Only
a foretaste of the smuggling that will be
attempted if the Government does not
soon regularise an exchange trade.
Ward is bearing down on Geneva and
another useless 1.L.0. festival of chin-
music, together with “Senator Amour
(delegate), Messrs. Halligan and Funnell
(advisers), Mr, Donovan (secretary)-and
Miss Slavin (typiste).” “My first overseas
assignment,” he said before the very ex-
pensive party moved out (he could have
had an “overseas” assignment in 1917 or
1918 but scorned it), adding that his
travels would take him to Britain and the
U.S.A. Russia? No ;he didn’t mention
it then. Of that country and its miracle-
men, now somewhat shopworn, he
blithered in 1944, when Curtin was
packing his bags for London ; “More
progress has been made by Soviet
Russia in 25 years than in any capitalist
country in ten times that period.”
Dedman, Calwell and Ward have gone
abroad, and when they set out Drakeford
was still somewhere in the Pacific. Their
absence makes nonsense of tjhe pretence
that 19 Commonwealth Ministers are
needed. At the end of the first German
war there were 67 Australian Ministers,
one being in the Queensland, Leg.
Council, soon to be extinguished. There
are now 81, each with a staff; 46 more
than there are in Britain.
It was not till he reached Singapore
—Mrs. W. following a few hops behind
—that Ward confided to reporters his
hopes of visiting Russia. No doubt while
he is in the Workers’ Fatherland he will
carefully note the Soviet attitude towards
conscription and treatment of subject
races, like Hungarians, Rumanians and
Poles.
Calwell is to join the happy band of
tourists, compdsed at present of Ward,
Dedman and large retinues —there is an
impression that the Drakeford party may
be back. There is still time for Calwell
to deliver another tirade against objectors
to the favors he is extending to “Pales-
tinians” and “refugees” from Shanghai,
where there is a ferociously anti-British
Jewish community; but the discovery of
“letter-bombs” addressed by Jewish ter-
rorists to Attlee, Bevin, other Ministers,
Churchill, Eden and dozens more (the
King and Princess Elizabeth among them,
according to one account) may have
made this inexpedient.
In these latter times employers have
done some very foolish things in Aus-
tralia, especially in the way of finding
jobs, and no questions asked, for
unionists engaged in the metal-trades and
dockyard strikes, a piece of selfish folly
which prolonged those industrial disasters.
Of a piece with this sorry business is the
sending of employer delegations to
International Labor Office conferences,
held every two or- three months or so, to
which “Labor” deadheads swarm. How
can employers expect reduction of taxes
when they connive at the squandering of
public money, in this case on a low
political racket?
In its first broadcast to the Russians
in Russian, fully reported in the New
York “Times,” the U.S.A. State Depart-
ment said a thing with a bearing on
Federal “Labor’s” craze for a great in-
crease in members of the House and
Senate, to follow the great increase in
pay and perks: —■
Each of our States, irrespective of its
size or number of citizens, has an equal
number of representatives in the Senate,
two Senators each. Such importance was
attached to this provision that by a special
resolution it can never be changed.
Here the proposal is to have eight
Senators in Tasmania with about
quarter of a million people. Who, even
in Tasmania, wants eight Senators for
Tasmania, except those who want to be
among the eight?
There has been more municipal
trouble at Bankstown (Sydney), whence
Amour, now getting the consolation prize
of an overseas jaunt, went to the Senate,
there to blither about Bankstown until
fellow-Senators implored him to shut up.
“In a council chamber packed to capacity
and hot with exchanges between aider-
men,” His Washup the Mayor had to
admit that the Council had wrongfully
suspended an engineer, a Government in-
quiry officer having so reported, and must
reinstate or dismiss him, in which case,
apart from the legal consequences, it
would have to give him four weeks’
salary for every year of office. This
drew from Alderman Peffer the com-
ment that “the Mayor acted very hastily,
but then dizzy heights are bad for
weak heads” ; and, Alderman Coleman
protesting, Alderman Peffer offered him
“a glass of water to wash out” his
“dirty mouth,” Ex-Alderman Amour,
his romantic name notwithstanding,
would have been at home in his company.
In Europe he will be out of his element.
Though the Benambra (Vic.) by-election
left the state of parties unchanged, its
influence on the course of events in
Parliament may be fatal to the “Labor”
Government. In a poll of just on 11,000,
T. W. Mitchell, member of a noted Aus-
tralian family, added 500 to the C.P.
majority scored by the late J. R. Paton
at the 1945 general election. Opposition-
leader McDonald’s dry comment was
“Mr. Cain said ‘Labor’ had to win Ben-
ambra or perish.”
There was ribald laughter from both
sides of the House when Dedman, trying
to justify “Dedman’s dole” —the beggarly
allowance paid to trainees under the
Commonwealth reconstruction scheme —
read a letter from an unnamed Victorian
saying he was satisfied. A deputation
representing 18,000 trainees had told the
humorless doctrinaire they couldn’t live
on his dole. The Queensland director of
the scheme has had to admit that a third
of those Queenslanders who applied for
training haven’t had any: in fact hun-
dreds have been “deferred” because in-
dustry can’t take them; hundreds more
are awaiting vacancies in training col-
leges ; and 6500 are wondering whether
to begin part-time or correspondence
training. Dedman is all right. He was
last heard of in London, and before he
returns £5OO a year will have gone on to
his ill-earned salary.
E. R. Knox, chairman of C.S.R., put
the current sugar shortage down to
“shortage of ships, wharves and mechani-
cal gear and absence of the will to work.”
An explanation—particularly the last six
words—of what is wrong with Australia.
N.S.W. coalminers, who last year lost 8
p.c. of working time (nominally a five-
day week of 40 hours) because of “dis-
closations,” not reckoning in the usual
10 p.c. of “avoidable absenteeism”
(Justice Davidson’s expression), are to
get three weeks’ annual holidays instead
of two weeks. An immediate comment
on this concession is a 20 p.c, reduction
in supplies, already tragically inadequate.
“Poor old Holloway” has been heard
from again: —• ,
The present state of industrial affairs in
Australia can be regarded as most satis-
factory and appears to completely vindicate
the Government’s industrial relations policy.
This while railway departments in four
States were announcing severe cutting-
down of train services, while Melbourne,
Sydney and Adelaide were short of gas
and while Sydney was expected to re-
joice at the news that preliminary notice
of the frequent electricity blackouts
would be given, if possible.
Before the Queenslanders went to the
poll on May 3, a J. J. Healy was a Labor
member for Warwick. After May 3 an
O. Madsen was C.P. member for War-
wick. But don’t be Concerned for poor
Mr. Healy—he’s now a Transport Com-
mission “investigating officer”; and to
blazes with soldier-preference!
Just when it came out that Chifley had
handed back the Coalcliff (N.S.W.) mine
to the owners without denying a loss of
£85,000, Queensland coalminers de-
manded that the State “nationalise” the
mining industry. Even if they haven’t
heard of thfc Coalcliff fizzle most of them
should be old enough to remember what
happened when Queensland “nation-
alised” cattle-stations, butcheries, fish-
shops and pubs.
A Jewish terrorist manifesto:
Every British soldier to be captured will
be tried first for membership in the illegal
occupation force, for belonging to an
organisation of murderers, for illegal entry
into the homeland, for illegal possession of
arms, for using those arms against the
population and against the Hebrew
liberation army and oppression of masses
of our people. There will be no appeal
from the sentences imposed by the people’s
courts, and the condemned will be executed
on the spot either by hanging or a firing
squad.
Issued before bombs packed in envelopes,
designed to murder Attlee, Bevin,
Churchill, Eden and dozens of other
British leaders, were put in the post, it
reached Australia by mail just when
it was communicated to this country that
it was about to receive more parcels of
Jews from Palestine and Shanghai.
A name on’ce familiar to “Australian”
comrades cropped up when Hungary was
added to the Communist confederation.
The new dictator, succeeding Bela Kun
(Cohen) after many years, is Rakosi, who
—from Berlin —sent the wire admitting
the Australian Communist party to the
Comintern in 1922. This ruffian, whose
cheeky comment on the coup in Hungary
was “Our brave iron-fisted party seized
the reins before the U.S.A. could rub its
eyes,” has operated in every part of
eastern Europe. Comrade Garden, his
local agent in the foundation year, has
since enjoyed a fat Commonwealth job as
Ward’s factotum.
There must have been some cynical
smiles in London when Abd-el-Krim
escaped from French custody at Port
Said while being brought back from the
isle of Reunion to France. He repeated
the effort of the Mufti of Jerusalem, who
escaped from the British last year and
sought sanctuary in the Egyptian Royal
Palace. The Mufti’s escape was by ’plane
from France, and the British have been
more than a little annoyed with the
French both for a slackness which per-
mitted that flight and for the unhindered
departure of Jew-immigrant ships which
have sailed from French ports to run the
British blockade off Palestine. Inci-
dentally, the freedom to work mischief
of both these Arab leaders (Krim headed
the revolt in Spanish and French Morocco
in the ’twenties) is significant at this time
when the States of the Arab League are
preparing for resistance in arms to the
Jewish terrorists in Palestine and for
agitation at U.N.O. for independence of
the late Italian colonies in North Africa.
On May 15 a boiler-tube burst in the
Bunnerong powerhouse, Sydney, notori-
ous once for a division of spoils on which
the Criminal Court had to pass judgment,
and since for a chronic coal shortage,
strikes and blackouts. For the boiler-
tube business a fireman was held respon-
sible and disrated for three months at a
loss of 9s. a week. An employee of 23
years’ standing, he considered he’d been
harshly treated. So did his union, which
proposed to stop work in the powerhouse
and throw half the city’s industries idle
and half its homes into darkness. The
threat hovered over the metropolis for
two days until the Minister of Justice
promised an inquiry into the case. To
such madness have we descended in this
free and enlightened democracy!
What Stalin, through his instruments,
has done in Hungary could be described
by the Stunt Press in the identical
terms it applied to what Hitler, through
his instruments, did in Austria eight years
ago, with the substitution of a few names
of persons and places, such as Budapest
for Vienna and Nagy for Schuschnigg.
But it didn’t occur to any portion of the
Stunt Press to indulge in comparisons or
ransack its files for appropriate expres-
sions. N>r did Dr. Evatt mention the
crucifixion of Hungary in his eleventh-
hour report to Parliament on Our Foreign
Policy. Yet Australia was one of the
signatories to the peace treaty with
Hungary — 13.
Federal “Labor’s” 50 per cent, salary
grab was brought before a House about
to go into recess; N.S.W. “Labor’s”
tram-ticket slug was announced after the
Macquarie-street talking-shop had gone
into recess. Neither matter was men-
tioned by “Labor” on the hustings,
although Chifley must have been aware
last September that if his party was re-
turned to power Caucus would demand
the grab, and McGirr had the Swift re-
port recommending increased fares when
he was promising N.S.W. electors a new
heaven and a new earth. The two items'
fall into a familiar pattern of “Labor’s”
policy of concealing or suppressing un-
welcome facts as long as possible and re-
vealing them at a time when Parliamen-
tary criticism can be kept down to a
minimum.
There’s a flurry in Central Queensland,
where an English concern wants to build
a railway from the vast Blair Athol coal-
fields 160 miles to Broad Sound/ aiming
at exporting coal to Asia. Nothing odd
in that —N.S.W. coal used to be exported
to nearly every coal-burning country on
earth till greed and go-slow killed the
trade. The Hanlon Government admits
that it has been sounded but may reserve
details for the new Parliament. Mean-
time, D. M, Corrie, head of Blair Athol
collieries, is reminding everybody that
27 years ago his company had the money
and plans for a similar line but the Gov-
ernment of the day stopped it. “Labor”
Government, of course, and then keen
on “nationalising” everything in sight.
Healy (one of the W.W.F. Healys) to
the P.M., as one power to another:
The Waterside Workers’ Federation has
considered the recent message to the Aus-
tralian Government from the Republic of
Indonesia and the Government of the
N.E.I. with regard to the shipment of
goods at present held in Australia to Indo-
nesia for the benefit of the Indonesian,
people, and has agreed to co-operate in the
shipment of these goods. It is understood
that the greater part of the goods will be
delivered to the Indonesian authorities.
The fact of the matter is that Communists
are now scared; scared because of the
contemptible showing they made at the
N.S.W. and Queensland Assembly elec-
tions and because Australians are ob-
viously becoming alive to the fact that
the boss Communists are just Oriental
crooks, liars, slaveowners and murderers.
The “Labor” measure providing for
penalties up to “£5OOO or 12 months’ im-
prisonment or- both” for boycott of “an
approved defence project” has con-
tributed to the rush of Communist
“courage” to the feet. Had the provisions
of the Crimes Act been invoked, with
real determination, in September, 1945,
there would never have occurred any
criminal Communist boycott like the
Indonesian one, which must have cost
thousands of lives, as well as millions of
pounds Australian in trade.


THE DEDMAN QUINS.
“The Dedman defence plan provide, for ‘annual allocation.’ of &15,000,000 for the Navy, 12,500,000 for the Army (no compulsory training!, £12,500,000 tor the
Air Force, £6,700,000 for research and development and £4,150,000 for munitions, supply, shipping and Defence Department clerks.
‘‘What are YOU doing for the next war, Dcddy?”
“Canna ye see, Wullie, what Ah'Ve got in the pram?”


Society
"AND IT'S.PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS "
“Buzfuz”: My admiration goes out
to the Sydney man who was game enough
to risk ridicule by suing a fickle fiancee
for breach of promise. An understanding
had existed for some time and an engage-
ment for a few weeks when the plaintiff
gave up his job in the country, as it did
not provide accommodation for a married
man, and came to Sydney to make the
wedding arrangements. Without giving
any reason his bride-not-to-be broke off
the engagement. In the witness box she
told the judge that letters she had written
to the plaintiff declaring her affection for
him were “only pretending,” that she had
never loved him and now hated him.
She gave as reason for breaking the
engagement that she had heard that the
man’s mother had died in an insane
asylum. Actually the mother had died
from meningitis. The Judge told her
that a promise to marry was a contract,
and that a woman had no privilege to
break such a contract without valid
reasons. He considered that the plain-
tiff had been badly treated by the girl’s
untactful and peremptory breaking of the
engagement. Verdict was for the plain-
tiff ; damages were light, £lO Is., but that
odd shilling meant that the fickle one
had to pay the costs. It brought the
damages above the sum she had paid into
Court.
*** < «
“Insider”: Heaven only knows how
many times in “hoodunnit” books, plays
and films an unsuspecting character has
opened the door to a darkened room and
been horrified to find a body hanging
from the gas-bracket or some other handy
place. It happened in The Bulletin
office the other morning, when an edi-
torial man in search of an engineer
opened just such a door. After his heart
had stopped leaping he saw that the
corpse was merely a boilfer-suit hung
up to dry. Later, he encountered the
engineer and told him about it, laughing
heartily. The engineer remained grim.
“Stick around,” hfe said, drearily, “and
you might see it yet. I’ve just got my
income-tax assessment.”
* * * *
“Tummas McN.”: The indefinite and
maddening “or somethink,” tacked on
to almost every statement the average
Australian makes, is making us a nation
of meaningless gabblers. *You hear it
everywhere—“Oh, the price was two bob
or two an’ six or somethink.” “He said
he’d write on Tuesday or somethink.”
“Why don’t you see the doctor or some-
think?” “Well, this chap has a business
up in Brisbane or somethink.” “She was
wearing a little floral dress or somethink.”
It suggests that few people are brave
enough to make a definite statement
or that most of them aren’t sure what
they’re talking about. Where it maddens
any busy person is in a Government de-
partment when some understrapper
coldly informs the caller that “Mr. Form-
filler is with the Chief Clerk or some-
think.” One of these days I’m going to
demand of one of these people whatinell
they mean or somethink.
* * * «
“F.M.”; Crew of a bomber operating
over New Guinea knew the jungle well —
from the sky—until they crashed in that
wild country. They escaped unhurt and
were found by a scouting patrol from a
native battalion. In the dusky warriors’
camp they were warned not to stray,
especially at night; there were pro-Jap
natives in the jungle who would pick
them off with spear or arrow. Paddy, the
rear-gunner, leaving his hut one night, was
startled by a loud smack outside the door.
He tumbled back inside yelling “Grab
your guns, boys, they’re on us; a spear
just missed me and hit the wall.” Fear-
ful of being trapped inside-they scrambled
out. Another “smack” sounded. They
peered into the darkness. A shadow de-
tached itself from the blackness along-
side them. “Good-night, masta,” it said
and saluted. Paddy’s “spear” was the
sound of the sentry’s palm smacking the
rifle-butt in salute.
* * * *
“Zake”; Pity the poor dailies! —and,
even more, pity the poor readers of them.
' Now that the wintry blasts have come
that great pictorial standby the almost-
nude beach brat, whose toothy grin leered
out at us from practically every page for
months on end, is shiveringly unseason-
able and has been dropped back into the
files. Who then is to fill the breach, to
displace the navelled torso? Not Holly-
wood divorcees, for they already grab a
stickful of space every issue ; not that
Great Daily hero the Big Punter, taken
as he is about to collect a wad, for Big
Punters are getting chary of having their
hard dials snapped in such moments,
since the tax people are on the blitz. With
nice-looking murderers not quite so
plentiful these days, and with the poli-
tician’s phiz about as popular with the
“Come on, Henry, you can finish that after the honeymoon
public as a radiator salesman in hell, our
G.Ds, seemed in grave danger of a rush
of frustration to the head, with conse-
quently grave circulatory disease. Then
the Sydney “Telegraph” had a brainwave
and, lo! the newest pictorial hero made
his bow—the Bloke who Caused a Strike!
He will, of course, set a fashion ; but one
consolation is that there’ll be less tripe to
digest.
* * * *
“Findy”: There was a brief sequel to
the T. J. Ley murder trial, known in
Britain as the Chalkpit Case, in a Suf-
folk court-martial when Buckingham,
who turned King’s Evidence at the
trial, was charged with desertion, “in
that being a corporal in the R.A.S.C.
he did when stationed at Stow-in-the-
Wold absent himself without leave on
July 24, 1940.” Apparently the absence
continued until March 27 of this year.
I have never been to Stow-in-the-Wold,
but there is something about the name
that suggests a place that should never
be even remotely connected with war,
and I could almost bring myself to con-
done Buckingham’s offence were it not
that he “went through” at a period of the
war when Britain’s fortunes were at their
lowest ebb and when even unwarlike
places like Mousehole and St. Anthony’s-
in-Roseland were rallying at Churchill’s
call. The Court took the same view and
said “Guilty.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”; Whether or not because a
move has arisen in the U.S.A. to have
“The Merchant of Venice” removed from
school lists and even banned on the stage
as offensive to Jewish susceptibilities, a
spate of interest in the play has.developed.
Two amateur organisations in Melbourne
recently decided to give Shakspeare a go
and each, unknown to the other, plumped
for “The Merchant.”
* * * *
“Becks”: A Sydney daily, in an attempt
to test the courtesy or lack of it in
Sydney citizens, sends out a reporter
with a pocket full of pound notes. His
method is to choose a victim, ask jfim a
favor or put him to some inconvenience.
If the victim obliges with a smile instead
of a scowl, he collects a quid. A recent
“winner” was a woman who “graciously
allowed the reporter to take her place
at the head of a queue outside a desk
at the Taxation Department.” On behalf
of those behind her in the queue, who
were not consulted, I wish to lodge an
emphatic protest. It’s easy enough to
be gracious at the expense of others.
Everyone by now should know the rule
of the queue. There are two legitimate
ways in which the scribbler could have
got first place, apart from waiting his
turn like a common queuer. He could
have asked and gained the consent of
every person in the queue or he could
have changed places with the woman at
the head, she going to the end of the
line. If she had consented to do that
graciously she would have earned that
pound.
* * * *
“Chev”: Anybody got any use for a
touchstone that produced wealth to the
extent of £2,379,000? It weighs 2\ tons,
has a steel base, a manganese bronze
dome, observation ports of plate glass,
’phone connections, its own oxygen
supply and is able to withstand a pres-
sure of 1000 tons. It is the diving bell
designed by David Isaacs for the re-
covery of the bullion from the Niagara.
Army Disposals, Melbourne, await offers.
* * * »
“Jasby”: A vegetarian friend of mine
has been having a terrific struggle with
his conscience trying to square up his
principles with his patriotism. His feel-
ings on the subject of eating meat are
almost fanatical, his regard for Britain
and his sympathy for the British people
hardly less. After reading Food-for-
Britain advertisements and listening to
radio announcements urging him to send
in his meat coupons to the Fund, he was
filled with a desire to help, but his beliefs
told him that by doing anything to en-
able the British people to eat more meat
he would really be doing them irrepar-
able harm. Then someone pointed out
to him that, according to the Prime
Minister’s statement, every meat coupon
destroyed meant more meat for Britain,
and he realised that by not using his
coupons he has for years been forcing
meat down British throats. The problem
worried him so much that he decided to
pass the buck. He clipped out all his
meat coupons and posted them to Ber-
nard Shaw.
* * * *
“Minto”: The Oshkosh flapper (B.
21/5/’47) who thought Spencer Tracy
invented the electric-light bulb has no-
thing on an Australian lass who tried to
cash in on the quiz craze. Asked what
famous Frenchwoman was burned at the
stake, she answered Joan Fontaine.
* * * *
“Macnell”; After much preparatory
salvage work by naval divers in Singa-
pore, the Shiretoko, sunk with the big
floating dock during a Fortress raid in
February, 1945, has been refloated. The,
dock, scuttled at The Fall, had been
raised by the Japs in 1944. Aussie p.-0.-w.
will remember its cranes sticking above
water after the bombers had finished.
The refloating of the Shiretoko, in itself
of no importance, as she is to be
scrapped, is a necessary preliminary to a
full survey which will decide whether it
will be worth while to refloat the dock.
* * * *
“McGlum”: We hated the Roads
Scholar as much as any Jap we ever knew,
but because he had an obsession for road
building a little extra effort on our part
often brought rewards ; more smoke-ohs,
hand-outs and organised labor instead
of the usual frantic scrambling before
weighty dog-wallopers wielded by scream-
ing warrior gods. The road we were build-
ing for the Scholar seemed to go nowhere
across the Haisho sands. No traffic ever
rutted its undulating surface ; not even
a staff car ventured to make the cus-
tomary triumphal gloating upon the white
slaves. Our overseer became heart-
broken and even confided that his superb
work for Nippon Was not appreciated.
Each evening, straggling back to the
barracks, to save time we used to cut
across open ground in a beeline for
camp. One day the Scholar, with a glint
in his eyes, lined us up regimentally,
gave the order to march, and proceeded
to step it out straight down the “grand
trunk.” Knowing this meant an extra
mile we moved over to the old route.
He went berserk with anger, screaming
and slashing with his sword-stick ; and we
were soon marching to attention along the
work of our own hands but his brain-
child. After that until the job was
abandoned, we used the road night and
morning, the now exultant Roads Scholar
proudly leading his tattered company up
and down another monument to slavery
and Jap occupation.
* * * *
“Jemac”: Saw a strange merchant flag
recently. A burgee-shaped ensign, it
consisted of five horizontal color bands
running blue, white, red, white, blue,
from top to bottom. Inquiries disclosed
its origin as German, the new flag pre-
scribed by the Allied Control Commis-
sion for all German and former German
ships sailing under orders of the occupy-
ing Powers. Black, the symbol of
Nazism, has been omitted.
* * * *
“Colbun”; Just over 73 years ago
three young political refugees from
Italy reached Melbourne in the same
ship: Carlo Catani and Ettore Checchi,
both civil engineers, and Guido Baracchi,
mathematician and astronomer. Catani
became chief engineer of Public Works ;
his enterprise in beautifying St. Kilda
and opening up scenic mountain
country is commemorated by the
Catani Memorial on St. Kilda Esplanade,
the near-by Catani Gardens, and Lake
Catani in the Buffalo country. Checchi
first organised systematic river-gauging
in Australia, and afterwards investigated
sites for hydraulic developments in the
Upper Murray, including the present
Hume Reservoir. A man of immense
physical strength and endurance, he died
last year at 93. Baracchi was Govem-
mfent Astronomer for many years, and a
noted authority on star-observation and
longitude determination.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Mutilation of art volumes
like that of Norman Lindsay’s Oil Paint-
ings (B. 7/5/’47) is a common complaint
in all public libraries. Pornographists are
the usual culprits ; it puzzles me that they
should still practise their cult when prac-
tically every newspaper gives photos of
scantily-clad females almost as naked as
anything an artist ever put on canvas.
Then there’s the beach, with a real flesh-
and-blood show, and the vaudeville stage,
obliged to strip for the lick of its life
against the competition of the seaside
naiads. Queer that with all this vast
panorama of exposed female epidermis
the porno, should still seek the harvest
of the safety-razor blade.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: In Wairarapa (M.L.) I was
chatting with a fur-coated dame who was
complaining bitterly that her son pre-
ferred rabbiting to taking any part in
his father’s business. “Rabbiting!” she
said scornfully. “I think it is just com-
mon.” Father is the town’s biggest s.p.
bookmaker.
* * * *
“Laetitia”; The difficulty encountered
by “Ped’s” pupil (B. 21/5/ ’47) with the
case of “blacksmiths’ ” recalls the
dilemma of a British tailor who wished
to order by letter two of that large type
of pressing iron known in the trade as a
“tailor’s goose.” “Two tailor’s geese,”
though seemingly the correct usage,
sounded ridiculous. “Two tailor’s gooses”
even worse. A happy solution occurred
to the resourceful Snips. “Please send
me one tailor’s goose,” he wrote, “and
send me another confounded one just
like it.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: In making a plea for professors
of art who are not practitioners. Pro-
fessor Burke mentioned Ruskin, who, he
said, saw the quality of Turner before
anybody else did, although he didn’t see
the quality of Whistler. Melbourne’s
Professor of Fine Art couldn’t have
selected a more unfortunate example.
Ruskin didn’t see the quality of Turner.
He liked Turner as a man, and con-
sequently was predisposed in favor of his
pictures; he didn’t like Whistler, so was
predisposed against his pictures; but he
didn’t understand either artist. If he
had he would have recognised precisely
the same qualities in both. But Turner
would have recognised the quality of
Whistler and vice versa because both, so
to speak, spoke the same language.
Ruskin said of Whistler that he was an
ignorant coxcomb who charged 100
guineas for throwing a pot of paint in
the public’s face, so, as Turner was
endeavoring to do the same thing artisti-
cally as Whistler —depict Nature —
Ruskin’s admiration for the one andl
contempt for the other must have been
determined psychologically and not by
any knowledge of the art of painting.
Turner, incidentally, implored Ruskin not ’
to write about art, as he knew nothing
about it.
MIXED JURIES.
“Women should be allowed to serve on juries in
Australia, as in Britain and the U.S.A., a former
Crown Prosecutor gave it as his opinion in an
address to the Sydney Feminist Club.”
Well, and why not? It naturally vexes
Those who advance in dialectics warm
The need for the equality of sexes
By way of this particular reform
To think that woman, whose accepted right
To tackle almost any job secure is,
Should have, her proved capacity despite,
No opportunity to serve on juries.
A path to Parliament was hers to win
One scarce recalls how many years ago;
And, what is more, when once her side is in,
She may be handed a portfolio.
Her voice exerts in scenes of high debate
Where rival politicians scrap like 'furies,
A soothing influence, yet, strange to state, ■
She isn’t counted fit to sit on juries.
Law she may practise, medicine likewise,
And shine in various lines of skilled research;
Nor will it give occasion for surprise
If next she finds a footing in the Church.
She helps the wheels of commerce to revolve
In lots of walks of life, from banks to
breweries,
Yet it remains a puzzle none can solve,
Her ineligibility for juries.
Come, Evatt, this should give your massive mind
A task in which some practical allure is!
Where Britain and the U.S.A. combined
To act, why should Australia lag behind?
And think of all the rich reward you’ll find
Paid in the votes of grateful womankind
By giving them the right to serve on juries.
N.S.W.
Midford.


“Ramac”: When the Japs got Nick at
Ambon he was 50 and too old to expect
a comfortable ending. He was out of
most things, like scrounging and trading,
but managed to survive his bashings and
illnesses until Fortune smiled on him.
Swinging a banjo in a Haisho swamp,
digging clay for Nippon’s Co-prosperity
roads, he bent down for another shovel-
ful of sticky slush when, wonder of won-
ders, a fortune lay at his feet. Ten yen,
20 yen, 30 yen! Notes were strewn all
around within easy reach of his cal-
loused hands. The anxious Japs from a
near-by A.A. battery who came looking
for part of their pay-roll blown through
an open window by a capricious gust of
wind found nothing. From then on
Mick never looked back. He bought rice,
traded and prospered.
* .* * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: I see that
Neville Cardus considers that in the
matter of culture, compared to Sydney
or Melbourne, Rochdale (Eng.) is as
Athens under Pericles. This is a very
interesting comparison. The assumption
is that if Cardus had lived in Athens in
those days he would have found things
very different. But would he? We would
all like to think that if we had been in
Judea at the time of Jesus or in Athens
at the time of Socrates we would not
have been among those who crucified the
one and gave the other the hemlock.
But I wonder. Can Mr. Cardus be quite
sure that if there were a Pericles knock-
ing around Melbourne or Sydney he
would recognise him?
* * * *
“Wusslean”: Jenkins was opposed on
principle to handing out cash to im-
portunate strangers, but one morning, in
a benevolent frame of mind, he parted
with a couple of shillings. Shortly after-
wards in a pub he found himself stand-
ing beside the recipient of his largess,
who held a half-filled mug of beer.
“Aren’t you the man I gave two bob to
just now?” asked Jenkins. The other
nodded. “Will you tell me, then,” de-
manded Jdnkins, “how it is I find you
here drinking beer?” Rapidly finishing
his drink, the stranger retorted “When
I’ve got no money I can’t drink beer.
When I have got money I musn’t drink
beer. Will you tell me, then, just when
I can drink beer?” The simple logic of
it still has Jenkins puzzled.
« * * *
“Old Firm”: Who says crime doesn’t
pay? One day in war-time Sydney a
Yank and myself had our shoes shined
by one of the enterprising urchins who
made a small fortune at the game in those
days. During the proceedings my friend
dropped sixpence, which rolled into the
gutter, and the youngster conscientiously
chased it and handed it back with an
. angelic expression on his face. The
Yank glanced at the coin and with an
admiring, “Say, ain’t he cute!” presented
the kid with a couple of bob. The ad-
miration was caused by the fact that our
shoe-shiner had, with a bit of sleight of
hand, substituted threepence for the six-
P ence ' *
“Lawnstob”: If the Southern Tas-
manian Amateur Cine Society doesn’t
start a film movement going in the Apple
Hsland it won’t be for lack of effort. It
is already the first Australian society to
gain affiliation with the Intercontinental
Cine Amateur League of Milan. Its pre-
view of early production scenes of its
first feature-length film “Mary” brought
j nqu j r j es f ro m all over Australasia. But
, • . A, nwiVwtcsrß
now the society \ facing an awkward
problem. During the long wait for per-
mission to import a camera for indoor
WQrk £ aces Q £ t principals have
changed so much that exterior shots will
have to be remade. The camera is ex-
"I distinctly ordered a surrealist mural —this is a realist one.
traordinarily sensitive to these things.
When F. W. Thring was making “On Our
Selection” in the burnt-out shell of His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, and in the Fitzroy
Gardens there were more hilarious shrieks
of laughter at the preliminary run-off
than at the subsequent first night—Dad’s
(Bert Bailey’s) bfard suddenly' achieved
a fortnight’s growth in a few seconds.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne police have been
taking a traffic survey. At the Russell-
street-Latrobe-street intersection, right
under the nose of H.Q., 127 motorists out
of 200 did not even slacken speed at the
“Stop” sign, 34 slowed down slightly,
27 slowed sufficiently to change gears,
nine almost stopped and three did stop.
One of these was a learner with a stern
instructor beside him and another was
an old lady whose engine stalled. In
another check tram-drivers proved the
worst offenders, and no taxi-driver was
seen to stop at any intersection.
* * * *
“Eve”; In the chop suey joint the
woman with the five children was having
her first Chinese meal. When she found
the rice-dish was just placed in the centre
of the table and everyone was expected
to dig into it in friendly fashion she gave
sudden orders for the kids to rearrange
their positions at the table. She placed
three on one side, and two others—bigger
ones —on her own side. Then she stuck a
fork in the centre of the mound of rice
as though to mark the half-way margin.
Noting my glance, she said, “Fair go,
see? Quick eaters sit on one side, slow
eaters on the other.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Canada reports a split in
the ranks of the Doukhobors. These
Russians were first heard of in the
eighteenth century, and their incon-
‘Blast it! Best Dorothy Lamour I've done yet and it starts to ram.
venient habit of quoting early Christian
authority for their peculiar customs
raised the ire of the Orthodox
clergy. Later they suffered such
savage persecution that Tolstoy, then
the greatest spiritual power in Russia,
persuaded the British Government
to assist their emigration, first to
Cyprus and then to Canada, where they
started to form settlements in 1899. Be-
cause of their belief that private property,
in *goods, husbands, wives and families,
WcuT immoral, their pacifism and their
refusal to recognise any authority except
that of Peter the Lordly, their founder,
the Canucks had much trouble with .them.
Whenever they wanted to protest against
local regulations contrary to their beliefs,
such as having to pay fares on railways.
they stripped off their clothes and
marched naked through the streets,
men, women and children, shep-
herded by blushing policemen—not
to scandalise society, but to express
helpless, pious indignation. Their re-
ligion, they claim, is based on the teach-
ings of Christ, who, they believe, lives
in their hearts and suffers for their sins.
Now they are quarrelling among them-
selves over a fundamental tenet, as did
the Mormons. One sect sticks to the
custom of wife-sharing while another re-
gards this with horror. Wife-sharers, to
the number of 200, have left their hold-
ings in British Columbia and invaded
Vancouver Island. If the history of Salt
Lake City is any criterion, it won’t be
long before there isn’t a wife-sharer
among them.
» * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Those “big phials con-
taining red and blue liquid” (B. 21/5/’47)
were always a fascination in a chemist’s
window. My first gleanings of the Facts
of Life came through them. Years ago
as I stood wondering &hat was for sale
in the huge queer-shaped bottles another
bare-footed kid sidled up and volun-
teered in a wicked whisper: “D’yer want
to know what’s in them bottles?” I did,
especially as, by his tone, I shouldn’t
know. “That’s where the nurse gets the
babies out of!” he whispered; and,
slipping away as furtively as an Oppen-
heim female spy, he left me to share the
sinister secret with the next kid that
happened along.
* * * *
“Clooter”: In spite of a fair acquaint-
ance with Havelock Ellis, Freud and soipe
other pundits, as well as experience as a
husband and father, feminine logic is still
beyond me. The other morning from the
backyard I heard the neighbor’s missus
scream on such a note that I went over
the fence like a steeplechaser and raced
to her kitchen. She was dazedly standing
with a short-circuited electric-iron in her
hand. I quickly discovered that her radio
and refrigerator were, so to speak, both
off the air, whereupon she lamented. 1
then explained that the fuse-box was a
safety measure and that without some
such safety valve a “short” could have
serious effects both on herself and her
house. “It’s just like men,” she snorted.
“Have to invent something that not only
frightens a woman to death but puts
everything out of order. Why couldn t
they do it with a red light or a bell or
something?” I withdrew.
**• * *
“Eureka”: I have searched the Sydney
Art Gallery and cannot find one paint-
ing in which a motor-car is featured.
There are horses and all types of horse-
drawn vehicles, even bullock waggons
and drays, wheel-barrows and slides, but
not a car —hot even an attractive young
woman at the wheel of one. To me the
modern streamlined car is a thing of
beauty, but it obviously doesn’t appeal
to the artist,
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: From here on all tales of
absentmindedness have to be good.
Walking down Sydney’s Bridge-street in
heavy rain I ran across a woman friend,
dragged her under a verandah and de-
manded to know where she thought she
was going in the deluge. She seemed to
awaken, looked at the rain, at my own
and other shrouded and umbrellaed
figures about her, then at her soaked
stockings and shoulders and ruined hat.
Then from a zipper-bag under her arm,
whilst almost incapable laughter,
she drew a bone-dry raincoat. “ I heard,’
she gurgled, “of some boys’ shoes on
sale at David Farmers’ and was so
anxious to get a pair for Robbie that I
just didn’t noticb the rain.” Perhaps, she
is to be excused.
* * * *
“F. 0.0.”: Did not the shooting of
Morant and Handcock have a strong in-
fluence on the decision that the death
penalty should be ruled out in the A.1.F.?
I remember that in the First World War
there was many a debate, particularly
with British Army officers, for and against
the absence of a death penalty in the
Australian forces, and before the discus-
sion evaporated entirely someone was
sure to recall Morant’s case as a deter-
mining factor, right or wrong. Thus has
“The Breaker’s” fate lived on in the
memory of his adopted fellow-country-
men, along with the memory, remarkably
green still despite the passage of two
generations, of a vivid and impressive
personality.
« * * *
“Celer”: The pages of a text-book
on ophthalmology, the proud possession
of our Air Force library, were bespattered
with marginal notes by one who obvi-
ously was studying for the higher eye
diploma. Admittedly, the notes and a
sketch here and there defiled the book,
but they added a piquancy which en-
hanced its popularity with other bor-
rowers. The notes, “Very neat,” “pretty,
“saw a case like this once,” “don’t agree
with this,” and so on, expressed the com-
mentator’s reactions to the authors
description of eye diseases, diagnoses and
treatment. But the crowning joy for all
readers was the observation “This is new
to me—try it on Mary,” alongside a
paragraph describing corrective treat-
ment for strabismus. Conjectures as to
the identity of Mary were accompanied
by fervent hopes that she no longer
squints.
* * * *
“Harap”: Unusual duels (B. 21 /5/’47)?
During the Kaiser’s war I was for a while
attached to a French unit. Two of the
younger officers loved the same lass in
Paris, and, after a hectic night in the
mess, decided that the world was not
large enough for both of them. A senior
officer took charge of the matter, seconds
were appointed, and we all adjourned to
the moonlit garden of the chateau in
which we were billeted. The principals
were placed back to back, handed a
service revolver each, and, at the word
of command, stepped out 10 paces,,
turned, and simultaneously two empty
revolvers clicked harmlessly. A shout
of laughter from their brother officers
greeted the performance, and the two
young fellows, after abusing us in terms
that added considerably to my know-
ledge of the French language, left the
field of honor together to spend what was
left of the night in getting gloriously
tight
• * »
“Ruardhri”; Those bank-clerks who
left a bag of coin on the running-board
of their car (B. 21 / 5/’47) had better luc
than a Maoriland banker I knew years
ago. His branch was being closed, and
the cash transferred to a neighboring one.
He took bags holding a thousand
sovereigns, sewed them in a chaff-
and placed the package in a wheat-bag
which he carefully secured to his saddle
and then rode along the beach to the
other branch. When he got there th
package contained only 200 sovereigns.
A nail had worked its way through all
the coverings, and allowed the coins to
leak out. In the meantime news had
arrived of a new gold find on the beach.
The bank staff joined in the rush but their
total pay dirt was four quid.
THE CENSUS.
“The new census papers require householders to
specify the materials of which their roofs are made.”
Attend, John Citizen, of every station,
’Most any day, within a week or more,
The census man, wherever your location
May be, will come a-knocking at your door,
A veritable whale for information,
Such as you never reckoned on before.
Authority demands that he procures
All to be told concerning you—and yours.
He’ll seek to know—and mind you tell no
stories
In dealing with his bulky questionnaire—
If this your native or adopted shore is,
And anyhow when you were born and where,
Along with similar interrogatories
Relating to your own parental pair,
And, following this, if married you should be,
The names and dates of all your progeny.
You’re bidden to disclose, with no suppressions,
What languages besides your own you know,
And which the trades or callings or professions
You ply to earn or seek to earn your dough;
What are your individual possessions
And just what income tax you pay or owe,
And what (if any) is the brand or sect
Of recognised religion you affect;
What’s more, you’re asked to ticket or to tab it,
So that its status cannot be mistook,
The type of domicile that you inhabit,
What you might term your residential nook,
And specify, whether it’s beef or rabbit
Or any other fare you’re wont to cook,
If it’s electric power you use to stoke
The works, or gas or coal or wood or coke.
And see, there’s one.more point that needs
attention, * . , ,
And you’ll observe I’ve kept it to the last,
You must be sure not to omit to mention
Of what material the roof is classed
That shelters you from summer’s fierce intension
Or stormy winter’s desolating blast,
Slates, shingles, tiles, tarpaulins patched with
pitch? ,
The Government insists on knowing which.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


WARNING!
The Postmaster-General's Department has
commenced a special campaign against
Unlicensed Radio Listeners
The Australian Broadcasting Act requires
listeners to hold a current licence for
EVERY WIRELESS SET
IN THEIR POSSESSION
whether in the home, place of business,
holiday residence, or motor car.
Those who neglect this obligation are liable
under the Act to HEAVY PENALTIES
including SEIZURE of their sets.
RADIO DEALERS are obliged to notify
the Department of the name and address
of EVERY PERSON WHO PURCHASES
A WIRELESS RECEIVER.
>f LICENCES AND FURTHER INFORMATION
MAY BE OBTAINED AT ANY POST OFFICE
URLVI-82-57
Secured by
Capstan’s Own Blend
No other cigarette can match CAPSTAN
because CAPSTAN’S own blend of forty kinds
of fine Virginia leaf is a jealously guarded
secret. The famous “CAPSTAN FLAVOUR”
. . . Special Mild, Medium, or Full Strength
... is exclusive to CAPSTAN. Thai’s why it
is always . . ,
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE’S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
in the smart HCh? packs
THE SERVICE MAN
General Baba's Crimes.
*‘Ek Dum”; With little publicity, the
War Crimes Court at Rabaul has dealt
with Lieut.-General Masao Baba, who
was responsible directly for inflicting
more hideous suffering on Australian
p.-0.-w. than perhaps any other Japanese
criminal.
He commanded the ,37th Japanese
Army, and it was under his regime in
Borneo that the whole residue of the
Sandakan prisoners, save for a few
stragglers, was wiped out.
There was still a large body of Aus-
tralian and British prisoners in Sandakan
camps in January, 1945. By that time
the whole Japanese position had become
precarious. In order to get the Aus-
tralians away from the port, where there
was only a small Jap force in being, Baba
first ordered a batch of 470 p.-0.-w. to
march off inland under terrible condi-
tions. Only six lived to tell the tale.
In May, with defeat staring them in the
face and with Borneo virtually cut off
and invasion merely a matter of time.
Baba and his staff ordered the Sandakan
camp to be cleaned up. The sick, and
wounded unfit to travel
appear to have been de-
stroyed and the camp burnt
out. The remaining 540,
many of whom wfere unfit to
march, set out for Ranau.
About 180 arrived, many in
such a condition that they
died from ill treatment and
hunger. In August 33 sur-
vivors were callously wiped
out by shooting just before
the surrender.
It was one of the most
terrible episodes of the war.
Though Baba was charged
only with having failed to
control the conduct of mem-
bers of his command, there
was little doubt about his fate
from the beginning. The
Court took only a few
minutes to come to a de-
cision.
The only pity is that justice
was not more expeditious
and that the trial of this fiend
was left until most Austra-
lians who Vere not sufferers
by his callousness had for-
gotten his crimes.
Along with his subordi-
nates, he should have been
tried and executed in Australia
in circumstances of ignominy
which would have advertised the country’s
loathing of their inhuman crimes and
acted as a warning to a complacent popu-
lation of what it can expect in the case of
Asiatic invasion.
The most hardened mind could not
contemplate the proceedings of the 37th
Japanese Army wkhout a shudder, nor
the gallantry and endurance of its vic-
tims without pride.
Naval Bases.
“Ek Dum”: It seems that despite all
the hopes built on the American proposal
that Manus, should becomfe one of the
permanent U.S. bases, nothing is to hap-
pen save for what uses the R.A.N. and the
R.A.A.F. can make of the remains.
The Government, with its usual exaggera-
tion, declared that it was prepared to
develop it as a “big base” for the R.A.N.,
but in present naval estimates there can
be no “development” for five years.
Otherwise the whole £250,000,000 worth
of equipment laid down at Manus can
rot in the jungle.
The Government was full of enthusiasm
for the permanent scheme when it was
mooted last year. Its enthusiasm
apparently faded when there were hints
that the United States might feel that
whatever arrangement was made would
call for mutuality of service as well as
control.
Dr. Evatt and his colleagues were quite
prepared to allow the U.S. to have the
base, even to the exclusion of others.
They were not prepared to incur any seri-
ous expense to help in the maintenance
of what would probably be a spearpoint
of eastern flank defence in a major war.
Admiral Louis Denfeld, C.-in-C. of the
U.S. Pacific Fleet, arrived in Canberra
over the week for discussions on the
matter. It is to be hoped that the dis-
cussions are being carried on on bases
of greater knowledge and judgment than
Dr. Evatt usually exhibits in matters
connected with defence.
As General Blarney has pointed out,
Manus is vital to Australian defence,
and there should not be need to talk of
i° int control as distinct from the joint
rl S ht . of usa § e for the R °y al and us -
Navies, which should be allowed their
• °wn facUities them.
. Th , e latest.idea is that Singapore is to
o’ 5 - ( . d ' s P' aced . *>y Sydney as the mam
British base m the Paciflc-Indian Ocean
are , a ' ®° far , th , ls ,s ™ e , re talk and any
real and useful plan will have to be based
on guarantees.
It is no secret that in the period when
the Royal Navy was working desperately
t 0 be ready for the 1946-47 campaign
against Japan, its operations in Sydney
were brought almost to a standstill at
times by strikes, loafing and other forms
of resistance to its policies,
At one time, because of industrial con-
ditions, Admiral Fraser was unable even
to have a couple of destroyers scraped in
the Graving Dock—which would never
have been built had the present crowd in
office had its way.
Before Sydney can be accepted as a
“ Dammit , steward , you know I don't like my
poultry underdone
main base, these conditions will have to
be altered.
Defence, Britain and Japan.
“Ek Dum”: The Government is
already feeling the results of its policy of
trying to “poll” on other people while
trying to dominate international political
situations. Its attitude appears to be that
Britain and the United States should
attend to the defence of the Pacific
according to Australia’s prescription,
while allowing Dr. Evatt because of his
superior knowledge—the British having
none after having spent 200 years build-
ing an Empire in Asia —to dictate policy.
The evidence of what is taking place
is to be found in Dr. Evatt’s statement,
delivered in Parliament —as usual —on
the last day of a confused session when
there was neither time nor inclination for
critical discussion.
Dr. Evatt declared that there was a
natural tendency among groups in the
United Kingdom to become engrossed
with problems of foreign policy on both
sides of the Atlantic to the exclusion of
problems in the Pacific and South-East
Asia (he did not mention India, which,
beyond all doubt, has engaged the atten-
tion of said “groups”) and that lessening
of British interest, evidenced by failure
to give South-East Asia and the Pacific
their rightful places in British political
thinking, should be guarded against.
He added that there would, in the future,
be problems of great magnitude in the
area which could be satisfactorily solved
only if Britain, Australia and New Zea-
land made a joint approach, bringing to
bear on them the full contribution of
experience and knowledge which each
has to make.
The trouble about Australian ii.e.,
Evatt) policy is that it is selfish, and when
“Hang Hirohito!” was part of it, it


R<**c*y
m/
m
/
m
m
Sm
m
EVERYWHERE
INS GRIP
REPAIRS;
BROKEN CHINA 9
9 KITCHEN UTENSILS
FURNITURE 9 WOOD-
WORK 9 ANTIQUES 9
FABRICS 9 JEWELLERY
9 ORNAMENTS 9
LUGGAGE 9 LEATHER-
WARE 9 GLASS TO
OTHER MATERIALS 9
FISHING RODS AND
GEAR 9 WATER AND
ST EAM PIPES 9
BROKEN FAUCETS 9
LEAKY CAR RADIATORS
GASOLINE TANKS 9
9 CAR WINDSHIELDS
CRACKED MARBLE 9
9 TILES 9 DOOR
HANDLES 9 TOYS 9
9 DOLLS' FURNITURE
MODEL AEROPLANES 9
And a host of things foo
numerous to mention.
I numen
m
m
m
m
When something breaks, bring TAR-
ZAN'S GRIP to the rescue and
restore easily, quickly and per-
manently many of your household
commodities for useful service. Every
housewife . . . every handy man . . .
every hobby worker, should always
keep a tube of TARZAN'S GRIP in
the home, workshop, or garage.
TARZAN'S GRIP is the strongest
adhesive known, and resists moisture,
cold, acids and extreme heat. Buy a
tube to-day, and look for the Trade
Mark, "Tarzan gripping the lion's
jaws," on every genuine tube of
TARZAN'S GRIP.
Never be without TARZAN'S GRIP
Manufactured by TARZAN'S GRIP MANUFACTURING CO. LTD.
449 Willoughby Rd.. Willoughby, N.S.W.
TG5.82.57
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
was dangerously ill-informed. While
demanding co-operation, Dr. Evatt claims
the right to thwart both Britain and
other Dominions at every turn, aligning
himself with Latin American republics
and the like in opposition to British
Commonwealth consensus of opinion.
His method of procedure is in any case
ill calculated to make for accord. It
usually follows procedure which is de-
ceptive and irritating. First, he finds out
what the British Government may be
willing to do. Then he loudly demands
it, at the same time leading press and
public to believe that he is fighting for
something which will be bitterly resisted,
e.g., Australian representation at the Jap
surrender. The British Government at
once agrees—it has always been ready to
agree, but has not always been given the
opportunity to do so until Dr. Evatt has
had his publicity as the Strong Man of
the Pacific.
Instances of this sort are to be found
in the arrangements for the discussions at
Canberra of peace in the Pacific, and in
the London defence conference last year.
At that affair Messrs. Chifley and Evatt
secured agreement to plans which they
gave the appearance of having fought
for like tigers, though agreement to them
was just as much a foregone conclusion
as that they would be just another torn
scrap of paper so far as practical imple-
mentation by Australia went.
The British and American Govern-
ments have long since learned that agree-
ment with Dr. Evatt in practice cannot
mean anything when—as in the case of
the ban on shipping to and trade with
Indonesia —it is subject to ratification by
the Central Committee of the Communist
party which, via the new waterfront legis-
lation, has now become virtually part
of the Administration.
The British Government made certain
arrangements with the Australian Govern-
ment regarding the Dutch East Indies at
the end of the war. The Australian Gov-
ernment was unable to carry out its part
of the arrangement because the Com-
munist leaders of Waterside Workers and
Seamen wouldn’t let it.
The British Government was so
anxious about the Dutch shipping prob-
lem that it sent Lord Louis Mountbatten
to Australia to try to settle the matter.
Lord Louis impressed the urgency of a
settlement on the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, on the editors of newspapers
and on the unions themselves. He pointed
out that every Dutch ship tied up was a
British ship tied up, and that the position,
among other things, affected the return
of Australian troops to Australia. He
got empty expressions of sympathy from
the Australian Government, but no help.
The same thing is happening now with
regard to peace in Japan. It is Russian
policy, and thus Communist-controlled
union policy, that Japan shall remain
disarmed for a very long time —“perma-
nently prohibited from owning any naval
or military aircraft during the period of
control” and from achieving any resur-
gence of power and becoming another
Germany.
The Case of Germany %
Here Dr. Evatt is unconsciously follow-
ing Moscow’s “realistic” policy—both
Moscow and the Doctor are fond of the
word “realistic”; and it is because of
Moscow and Moscow’s plans that the
other Grfeat Powers have been going
about their settlement in their own ways.
It will take a great deal more than Evatt
policy to prevent Japan becoming an
armed and belligerent Power; and the
German analogy is false.
After 1914-18 Germany was totally
disarmed. Its war potential was con-
trolled until people of Dr. Evatt’s own
kidney had reached the point of opposing
continuance of control Dr. Evatt
and his friends always conveniently forget
that until 1932 Australian unions were
prolific of resolutions protesting against
interference with Hitler’s plans in
Czechoslovakia. In any case all that rigid
control did was to make the Germans
war-minded again.
The prohibition of military training
failed because ’the “good” neighbor Rus-
sia gave the Germans facilities for train-
ing officers on Russian soil. The basic
training of the German armies of 1939
all stemmed from what had taken place
in training in Russia up to 1936.
Even now the Russians are collaborat-
ing with large sections of the German
Army headed by Von Paulus, “the beast
of Stalingrad” till taken into favor.
If sapan is “totally controlled” under
the Evatt plan the same thing is bound
to happen. The real relationships be-
tween Russia and Japan are not known.
But Russia can always point out that
in the recent war Red Army men shed
scarcely a drop of Japanese blood.
Russian efforts are at present directed
towards Communising Japan and Korea
under the noses of the inter-Allied com-
mand. This policy is linked with a
Moscow demand for permanent Jap dis-
armament, while Russia apparently has
several hundred thousand Jap war
prisoners working for the U.S.S.R.
Japan is very intimately connected
with Russian policy for the control of
the world. Statesmen abroad are well
aware of this and act up to the necessities
of the world situation. Dr. Evatt acts up
to the necessities of the Australian situa-
tion, as he conceives them. Realism, ex-
cept so far as the safety of his Govern-
ment goes, dofes not enter into the matter.
Blarney on Defence.
“Ek Dum”: The Dedman “defence”
programme has joined the large museum
of myths created by the Dedman party:
Brisbane Line, “ope Australian in three in
the fighting line” and the rest. It is billed
as a five-year plan, and to those who could
estimate it the thing looks far worse than
it did before details were announced, for
the reason that it definitely attaches a
number of matters to routine expenditure.
An expenditure of £54,000,000 is
assigned to the first year. This seems to
include all capital costs in munition pro-
duction, experimental research and pur-
chase of new air and naval units, with
everything costing about four times as
much as it did in 1938.
There are to be two aircraft-carriers
-costing about £3,000,000 each. Ships like
the Renown and Repulse with 15-inch
guns were built for that at the end of
the last war.
The Army will be a shadow army, with
a large, proportion of clerks. The other
services will be little better. And, as
General Blarney remarked during the
week, “the provision for air and military
forces indicates that we have learnt very
little as the result of either the First or
the Second World War.”
The criticisms of the man who was
Monash’s Chief of Staff and C.-in-C. Land
Forces South-west Pacific were pungent
but—in the circumstances—restrained.
He repeats in his own words what, during
the past few months, has been said in
these pages again and again:
We look in vain for any indication of the
inescapable fact that recent experience
teaches us war demands the whole of the
national effort if we are to live. This lesson
has been learnt in the United States and
in Britain, where the Government has
shown its intention that the whole nation
shall undergo some degree of preparation,
and where proposals are in hand to ensure
that the whole population is basically
trained to take its part in the event of war.
The Citizen Air Force —about 200 men
—General Blarney describes as “inade-
quate.” It is worse than useless. The
military force he calls “ridiculous”;
When one remembers that nearly 800,000
men were employed in the military forces
during the war, while fewer than 200,000
were employed in the Air Force and a total
of some 60,000 in the Navy, the hopeless
inadequacy of the military preparation is
clear.
The General condemns the proposal to
revert to a diminutive regular army on
the old British plan. The army provided
for he characterises as just sufficient for
the maintenance of the Japanese occu-
pation force ; one which “can have little
to do with the preparation of Australia
to meet the demands which war will
make should it come.” And he knows —
no one knows better—that the world
situation is perilous.
The Dedman army, General Blarney
says, if intended to be separate from
the Japan force —which it does not appear
to be—amounts to only a division on
very low establishment without technical
troops. A single division permanently
employed merely means taking an equiva-
lent number of men out of industry and
enlisting them for no obvious purpose.
Beside this small permanent force, the
able Victorian points out, only the volun-
tarily-enlisted militia of 50,000 remains;
and experience of voluntary enlistment
has; been sad. In 1938, with war clouds
looming, voluntary military forces had
diminished to 35,000, and it needed an in-
tensive campaign to bring the numbers up
to 70,000 —“about ten per cent, of our
total war-time requirements.”
And the “responsibility will be thrown
upon the officers of the Army to endea-
vor by every possible means to maintain
the strength of this puny force at 50,000.”
The former C.-in-C. added that, under
modern conditions, no system of military
defence could be considered sufficient
which did not lay the foundations for
the preparation, not only of the armed
forces but of the whole nation. And
unless this conception were adopted the
money expended would be largely wasted,
as it will be.
In effect, the “Labor” policy is based
on wishful thinking, ignorance and
civilian conceit of politicians who have a
distaste for anything which the more sel-
fish among the community wish to avoid.
In World War II Australia had a
narrow escape, if not from invasion, at
least from heavy raiding. But the lessons
its experience of 1942 produced and the
panic which reigned at that time at the
thought that even a single bomb might
fall on the holy ground of Sydney have
been completely forgotten.


FOR
w
MAKERS OF GOOD WINE FOR 100 YEA
PERSONAL ITEMS
Last week Tom Playford topped R. L.
Butler’s record of eight years 212 days
in office as Premier of S.A. Butler had
two bites at the cherry, with an interval
on the Opposition benches; Playford’s
terra has been continuous since Butler’s
retirement in 1938, and his record is all
the more remarkable for the fact that it
includes two elections won under the
Liberal banner during a period when
Labor was in office at Canberra and in
every other State. Under his leadership
S.A. has attracted many new industries,
some of them snatched right from under
the noses of other State Governments ;
for this most of the credit is due to
Playford.
Diggers, Young and Old, approve the
choice of Blackburn, V.C., as chairman of
the Services Canteen Trust Fund which
will administer the £4,500,000 accumulated
from canteen profits during the war.
Arthur Seaforth Blackburn , is an
Adelaide barrister with a distinguished
record in two wars. He was called to the
Bar in 1913, but joined the A.I.F. when
war came in the following year, went
away with the 10th Battalion and won a
V.C. at Pozieres. He came home seri-
ously wounded, and after a while resumed
his law practice in Adelaide, put in a
term as member for Sturt in the S.A.
Assembly and became City Coroner.
World War II found him back in the
A.I.F. He commanded the 2/3rd
Machine Gun Battalion in the Middle
East and, promoted Brigadier, led the
“Black Force” on a forlorn hope in Java.
His next three years were spent in Jap
prison camps; he tasted captivity be-
hind barbed-wire and bamboo in a variety
of unpleasant spots stretching in a long
line from Java to Manchuria, and his ex-
periences during that time have given
him an intimate understanding of the
problems of p.-0.-w. —an invaluable asset
in his work as chairman of the Trust
Fund.
When Dubois called upon N.S.W.
District Court Judge Kirby (Richard
Clarence Kirby), His Honor was work-
ing upon his report as Royal Com-
missioner on the transfer of police Sgt.
Keogh, He was bora at Charters
Towers (Q.) and educated at The King’s
School, Parramatta (N.S.W.) —he rowed
in the first fours, which won the Yaralla
Cup in the 1922 G.P.S. regatta. Gradu-
ating "as LL.B. from Sydney Uni.,
he practised as a solicitor before being
called to the Bar in 1933. Service in the
A.I.F, (Army Education) preceded his
appointment as a N.S.W. District Court
Judge. Then with Queensland Chief
Justice Webb and Justice, Mansfield, he
was on the Australian War Crimes Com-
mission which, in New Guinea and
Morotai and at Singapore and Kandy,
INQUIRIES AND COMMISSIONS.
investigated reports of atrocities ; at
Kandy Lord Mountbatten invited him to
remain for two months as an adviser on
war crimes. For the Tasmanian Gov-
ernment he investigated Forestry Depart-
ment operations, and for the Common-
wealth Government the murder of three
Australian officers in Indonesia. This in-
volved a journey into Indonesian-held
territory under the personal escort of
rebel Prime Minister Sjahrir to see re-
publican President Soekarno.
They’ll be “Waltzing Matilda”:
Graham Humby’s tramp ’planes won’t have
the air entirely to themselves —an Australian
concern has much the same idea. Aircarners
Pty., which plans to run an air-treignt
service between Sydney and the Far North,
packs some fair experience in its 95 per
cent, ex-servicemen composition —to say
nothing of its plane, “Waltzing Matilda
a converted Halifax with the war record of
51 operational flights (she came through with-
out a scratch) and'the first “peace mission
of bringing Capt. Geoff Wikner, his wife and
family and 11 other migrants to Australia.
f‘Waltzing Matilda’s” crew includes two men
who flew in her in operations over Europe—
the skipper, Edmund Hourigan, who captained
her on ops., and Bill Mab'e, who is now her
service engineer—and one, Flight Engineer
Douglas Keene, who helped service the Kite
when she was with 466 Squadron. First Officer
is Arthur Kell, who captained Lancasters in
R.A.F. squadrons, and John Woods, who was
navigator in R.A.A.F. Lancasters, will look
after her charts. Radio Officer Len Mclntosh
is a newcomer to the air; he’s a Merchant
Navy sparks with radio and navigation licences.
Hourigan and Kell are two men who have
proved themselves very capable of looking after
themselves —Hourigan, after a forced bail-out
over France in 1944, dodged the Nazis for
four months and escaped to Britain; Kell has
a fine record. as an amateur boxer. Both
hold a D.F.C., Kell’s with a Bar, and the
same distinction was won by Ted Eagleton,
Operations Officer for the company. Ground
staff and executive staff are all ex-servicemen
enthusiastic to turn war-time experience to
peace-time advantage. Managing-Director A.
W. Ford spent some time in the Islands as a
Commissioner of the A.C.F. and H. Parkinson,
general manager of the show, was also with
the Comforts Fund —as assistant secretary.
Peter Came, who will be Overseas Represen-
tative of Aircarriers; is an A.I.F. man who saw
service in New Guinea.
Thomas Henry Reynolds, dead in Syd-
ney at 81, was at the time of his retire-
ment in 1938 The Bulletin’s “Oldest In-
habitant.” Tom joined the paper as a
journeyman comp, in the early ’eighties,
and was in the composing room for 55
years. He was a young man in the days
when Archibald was editor and John
Haynes manager and the Tank Stream
used sometimes to flood the basement of
the office and hold up the presses. A
cheery little fellow, Tom had a wealth of
anecdotes about the weird characters who
frequented the office, including the irre-
pressible Theodore Argyles (“Harold
Gray”), the scapegoat son of a London.,
solicitor, and Henry Cargill (“The Dipso-
maniac”).
“Becks” on a forthright Canadian:
There’s nothing of the sleek, urbane diplomat
about Lester Bowles Pearson, although he has
for years been one of the most active men in
the Canadian Diplomatic Service, which like
Australia’s has sprouted luxuriantly in the last
two decades. A rugged type who believes in
the straightforward approach he fought in
Europe with the Canadian Expeditionary Force
in the First World War, then resumed his edu-
cation at Toronto University, did a bit of
schoolmastering, poked around the Chicago
stockyards and went on to Oxford, where he
graduated M.A. He returned to Toronto as
history professor, but the outbreak of the second
war found him in London as secretary to his
country’s High Commissioner; later he was
Counsellor at the Canadian Embassy in
Washington and then Ambassador. After Dum-
barton Oaks and San Francisco he was well
in the running for the job of Secretary-General
of U.N.0.; Russian opposition scotched the
chance of that. As Under-Secretary for Ex-
ternal Affairs Pearson turned up a few months
ago in New York to address a Pan-American
gathering and took the opportunity to get
off his chest a few things he would probably
have liked to say when he was Ambassador.
He asked his audience to wipe from their minds
the picture of Canada as a colony paying taxes
to an outside King and “fighting in far-off
fields the battles of other countries at the
dictation of others.” He stressed that Canada
has won her independence fighting at the side
of Britain, not against her, and added “Pos-
sibly we should have arranged a sham battle
with the British, had a mock capitulation, and
signed a peace treaty.” While Pearson has
anything to do with Canada’s external policy
there is no likelihood of the Dominion dis-
sociating itself from the British Commonwealth.
He told the same meeting, “we are not likely
to become isolationist even in a hemispheric
sense. The grim fact that Canada’s 100,000
war dead lie in Flanders’ fields and not in
the Saskatchewan prairies has shown us that
isolation is, for us, an impossible delusion.”
Pearson’s latest assignment was chairman of the
U.N. committee hearing the evidence of Zionist
and Arab groups on Palestine. ■ Just 50, he
should be a power in Canadian affairs for
many years to come.
Councillor R. H. Solly, the man who is
leading the Melbourne City Council in
the fight against the Federal Govern-
ment’s socialistic Bank* Act compelling
councils to do business with the Com-
monwealth Bank, is the son of Bob Solly,
once a noted Victorian trade-unionist and
M.L.A. R.H, is one of the chief
executives of Wunderlichs and the only
non-Labor member for Victoria Ward.
He has been a City Father for 13 years
and is chairman of the C.C.’s financial
committee.
C. N. McKay, who succeeds Lionel
Robinson as president of the Victorian
Chamber of Manufactures, now holds
kingpin positions in both primary and
secondary industries in Victoria. Last
year he was elected president of the
Agricultural Society in succession to
Charles Merritt. He is managing director
of the agricultural-implement concern his
father founded and chairman of directors
of several others. Flying is his present
recreation —he is 48 —but in his younger
days he pulled an oar in a crew that won
the King’s Cup.
When Hitler invaded Poland, Thomas
Walter Holmes, of Perth, drawn here by
ScoVfield, was a 19-year*old law student
at Sydney Uni. He joined the R.A.A.F.,
trained in Tiger Moths, Oxfords and
Ansons and went to Britain in 1940 to
join Bomber Command. Six years later
he came back to Australia, a squadron-
leader with a galaxy of ribbons on his
chest, including a D.S.O. and D.F.C., and
with 98 bombing sorties to his credit. In
Britain he first flew Wellingtons with 416
Squadron stationed in Yorkshire and
later at Skellingthorpe, in Lincolnshire.
His first raid was on Kiel, a favorite
target in 1940, and during his years
in Wellingtons he flew over most of
occupied Europe. Graduating through
Manchesters to Lancasters, he finished up
with the elite of Bomber Command in
the Pathfinder Squadron —Falkinder, now
SORTIES AND BOMBS.
M.H.R. for Franklin, was a colleague
and Queenslander Air Vice-Marshal
Bennett A.O.C. The job of the Path-
finders was to locate and light up the
targets for massed raids, and to the ac-
curacy of their work was due the final
success of the bombing offensive against
Germany. Holmes’s 98 missions covered
targets all the way from Norway to
Italy and as far east as Berlin, with
Essen, Dusseldorf and the Rhine Valley
getting most favored treatment.
The Ballet Rambert, due in Australia
shortly, will include the first Australian
to return to his homeland as the prin-
cipal of a ballet. He is David Hunt, a
young airman who, after serving with the
R.A.A.F., joined the Borovansky Ballet
in Melbourne. He later wop a scholar-
ship at the Sadlers Wells school and
graduated into the Ballet Rambert.
The only thing that prevents American
baritone John Charles Thomas bring
taken for a wrestler is the spiritual ex-
pression that suffuses his broad counten-
ance when he is thinking of his singing.
Except for a cauliflower ear, he has all
the equipment of a bruiser or a wrestler
—enormous chest, huge shoulders, big
hands, six feet and over of weight and
muscle and a voice that can boom like a
steam calliope, though it can also whisper
like the breeze in the pine-trees. His
father was a Methodist parson who
took his family about the country
on horseback on his evangelical mis-
sions. John sang in a trio composed of
himself, his mother and his father. Later
he did medicine at Baltimore Medical
School, mixing that with singing at the
local conservatorium. A scholarship lost
the world a surgeon but put him on the
vocal path which led to his becoming
one of the most recorded singers. On
the Westinghouse circuit he sings to
16,000,000' people evfery Sunday morning.
Thomas raises pheasants at Los Angeles
BLUEBIRDS AND PHEASANTS.
in his leisure moments. He was once
the medium for a psychiatrical experi-
ment on men in a hospital for the
mentally war-damaged. He sang “Drink
to Me Only with Thine Eyes” and “Ol
Man River,” and was subsequently told
by the doctor that three of the patients
had responded to his musical therapy.
Died in Melbourne as a result of an
illness brought on by marching in the
rain on Anzac Day, Brigadier-General
James Campbell Stewart, C.M.G., D.S.O.
and Bar. Born at Port Fairy, he was a
banker and held a commission in the
Victorian Scottish when the First World
War broke out. He went overseas as
captain and adjutant of the original
Fifth Battalion saw frontline ser-
vice from the Gallipoli Landing until
the Armistice, and at the finish was
G.O.C. 14th Infantry Brigade of the Fifth
Australian Division, After the war he
continued to serve with the militia, was
Chairman of the Farmers’ Relief Board
and a member of the Closer Settlement
Board. One of his most strenuous cam-
paigns was fought in conjunction with
J. J. Liston when they organised the anti-
prohibition forces in the liquor poll of
1938, Too old to serve in the last war,
Stewart commanded the V.D.C. He
helped J. J. Liston to establish Blarney
House at the request of General Blarney.
He was marshal of many Anzac Day
marches.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 89, William Wells Robinson,
solicitor since 1883, member of Cobar Copper
Mining Syndicate, director of Victoria Park
Racecourse and Australian Woollen Mills.
In Melbourne, Colonel Wilfred Saunders, one
of the pioneers of the Salvation Army in Aus-
tralia and a son of one of its founders. He
was to the citadel in Melbourne for
most of his '’career.
At Mount Bryan (S.A.), suddenly at 54, John
Cyril Murray, one of the State’s leading sheep-
breeders, and captain of the Mount Craw-
ford polo team. His stud at Catarpo, Mount
Bryan, became known throughout the Com-
monwealth. He was one-time judge of the
Perth Royal Show.
At Apia, Samoa, at 48, Victor Ranfurly
Gentles, who, since 1920, filled many
posts in the commercial life of the island.
Following a period as branch manager ot
Bums Philp Co. at Saluilua, Savaii, he became
manager of the N.Z. Reparations Estates stores
department.
In Adelaide, at 47, N. L. Williams, a slow
bowler who took 116 wickets for S.A. in first-
class cricket. In grade matches he took the
greatest number of wickets in 11 seasons, nine
in succession.
In Melbourne, at 63, Alfred E. Goode, of
the Union Bank. He joined the bank as a
junior, served it in Victoria, W.A. and N.S.W.
and was its general manager at the finish.
In London, at 76, Peter Menzies Dewar,
until last year chairman of the whisky concern
with which he had been associated for half
a century.
At West Tamworth, Walter Duncan, former
Senator and a Digger of World War I. At
the end of his term as Senator he lived in
retirement until the commencement of World
War 11, when, rejected for active service, he
joined the Commonwealth Loans organisation
and became representative for the n.-w. division
of N.S.W.


Women's letters
From Melbourne
That some elegance is creeping back
into race dressing was seen at the Wil-
liamstown Race Club’s meeting held at
Moonee Valley. Young racegoers who
once came bareheaded now confine their
locks in a bowler or little breton sailor.
Many women who chose black —which
still retains its popularity—wore a silver
fox fur or a stole of either sable or stone
marten for high relief. Despite keen
opposition from ribbon, ostrich feather
and osprey the flower hat holds its own.
Mrs. Gordon Fuller, who wore a very
gay little floral number with her black
frock and ermine coat, was with Mrs.
C. M. Day, from Sydney, tailored in fine
black wool over which went a wallaby
cape. Mrs. A. G. Hunter, of Seymour,
caught the eye in a coat of soft rose
wool which featured dolman sleeves. It
was worn with a small black turban. With
Premier Cosgrove, of Tasmania, was his
wife, Dame Gertrude, whose American
Beauty wool frock was ornamented with
bead trimming. Her matching hat had
an upturned brim finished with touches
of gold.
The dull shades had competition from
the more vivid ones. Lime, sage green,
mustard, purple and bright red all had
their day out. With her cyclamen
tailored coat Shirley Watts chose a sou'-
wester hat in powder-blue felt. Ella
Marcovitz (she leaves at the end of the
month for her home in America) had a
jacket of beige trimmed with gold but-
tons and banded in nigger brown to
match the skirt; over this suit she wore
a mink coat. Her brown felt turban
hat had a turret crown from which fell
a tassel of brown silk fringe. Mrs. Vic-
tor Cornaga was tailored; in a black suit
with a white hair-line stripe. Mrs. Fred
Irvine wore a small black hat with a
swathe of pastel-blue satin ribbon at the
front of the brim to go with her black
coat. Highlighting her Persian lamb coat,
Mrs. C. Curtain chose a small hat of
bright mustard-toned felt trimmed with
black.
Constance Neville-Johns, concert star
and lecturer, is back home in this city
after an absence of 20 years. It i 5,25
years since she was a student at the Uni-
versity Conservatorium with Florence
Austral, She first went to America, later
studying opera in Rome under Madame
Valera. While here Miss Neville-Johns
is staying with one of her sisters, Mrs.
W. S. Calcutt, of East Malvern. In
Chicago she has a studio where she
teaches singing, speechcraft and radio
technique; most of her pupils are,
strangely enough, war veterans. In addi-
tion to teaching Miss Neville-Johns gives
lectures to women’s clubs up and down
the country on Australian life. A movie
camera which she will use freely while
out here will, she hopes, give added zest
to future lecture tours in the U.S.A.
Big log fires burned in the reception
rooms at the Brighton home of Mr. and
Mrs. E. H. Storen when they entertained
members of the Ballet Guild and their
friends at a cocktail and buffet dinner
party. Mrs. Storen, whose attractive
dinner gown Was of navy-blue crepe em-
broidered in silver beads, was assisted
by her two daughters ; Helen wore pastel-
blue crepe and Barbara a navy crepe
jacket suit. Laurel Martyn, in black and
with the hair curling to her shoulders
caught by two black velvet bows, was
with her husband Lloyd Lawton and
Mrs. Helpmann, who as a committee
member of the Ballet Guild represented
the president. Lady Best. With her
daughter Sheila Mrs. Helpmann leaves
on the Tuscan Star at the end of the
month, and hopes to be in London in
time to see her son Robert in his ballet
appearances. Taking a night off from
her Red Cross work, Mrs. Garnet Cur-
wen chatted to members of the ballet
Strelsa Heckleman, Noel Murray, Grace
McLean and Max Collis. A lot of pre-
paration has gone into the ballet season
which opened last Monday, and Lady
Dugan has promised to pay them a visit
at the Union Theatre on the night on
which all the proceeds are for the Queen
Victoria Rebuilding Fund.
. Helen Rose, formerly of Perth and now
m Japan with the Y.W.C.A., writes of
life in that country. With other Y.W.C.A.
workers, she is stationed at Kure
V.W.C.A. Leave Hostel, which has ac-
commodation for 40. The hostel over-
looks the harbor and the lovely green
terraced hills beyond. Meals are well
cooked and excellently served by
apapese girls. The Y.W.C.A. girls live
m cottages —four girls to each—and these
are surrounded by flower-beds, fish ponds
and shrubs.
June Raeburn Brown and her husband
David motored down from their station,
Broadleaf, Tumbarumba, N.S.W., to be
present at the late-afternoon party given
by June’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. K.
Burnside. It was both June’s birthday
and wedding anniversary. Her brown
frock was worn with twin orchids, a
feather wing was in her hat. Mrs. Burn-
side received her guests also wearing
brown ; narrow pleatings of beige chiffon
were set at the hem of the full skirt and
at the edge of her elbow-length sleeves.
Her hat was of brown 'and orange
feathers. A gfoup of guests included Sir
John and Lady Latham, Buller Murphy
and his wife Dr. Deborah Murphy and
Dr. and Mrs. A. E. Coates. Dr. Coates
was a p.-0.-w. in Changi and has been
decorated for his work among the Aus-
tralian prisoners. Mrs. Maurice Nicholas
and her sister Mrs. Alan Stuart were
there; Mrs. Stuart’s hat of turquoise
velvet was high in front and tied at the
back in a large bow. Back from their
honeymoon were the Ron McDonalds
(she was formerly Bea Foster, of Maffra),
and with Consul for China Martin
Wang was his wife, whose Oriental
gown was of duck-egg green crepe em-
broidered in silver. Mrs. Grace Mac-
donald pinned a bunch of autumn berries
in her sable scarf, which she wore with
a tobacco-brown frock and matching hat.
Here is Mary Louise, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. G. L.
Fowler, of Sunshine, taken at her wedding
at St. Patrick’s Cathedral to Dr. Des-
mond Hollywood, only son of Dr. and
Mrs. J. J. Hollywood, of West Maitland,
N.S.W. The bride’s gown was simply
fashioned of white and silver satin bro-
cade made with long sleeves, with padded
true-lovers’ knot scrolls of the material at
the shoulders. Similar scrolls were fea-
tured on the long trained skirt. The
lovely French lace veil was caught at the
back with a half-circlet of orange blos-
soms, The ’groom’s sister Deirdre was
the only attendant. Her period frock of
powder-blue velvet was trimmed with
silver-threaded leaves of the material.
The small,, muff she carried was of the
same material. In her hair she wore a
matching corvette of velvet, draped to
one side. Wing-Commander Peter Parker
was bestman.
The reception was held at Grosvenor,
Toorak. Mrs. Fowler wore gardenias on
her black Persian lamb coat, her black
frock being of French silk brocade crepe ;
Dr. and Mrs. Hollywood received the
guests. Her black jacket, worn over a
beige frock, had lapels of the frock
material. Also assisting to receive the
guests were the bride’s grandfather J. J.
Ryan and her aunt Eileen Ryan. Visi-
tors from West Maitland included Cyril
Moxham, John O’Brien and Stanley
Grice. With Dr. A. Gorman, of Denili-
quin, N.S.W., was his wife and daughter
Joan. Dr. J. Carter, of Adelaide, came
with Mrs. Carter, who chose burgundy
accessories with her frock and coat of
pastel-blue wool crepe. Sydney guests
included the P. T. Kavanaghs and Mrs.
P. Tindale. The bride’s sister, Mrs. Peter
Parker, wore a cigar-brown ensemble
and large hat. Peter’s parents, Captain
and Mrs. C. A. Parker, and his twin
sisters Susan and Mary were also there.
Among the host of other guests were Mr
and Mrs. T. Playle, Dr. and Mrs. Charles
Byrnes, Kathleen Pappadakas, whose
winter-white crepe frock was worn under
a black Persian lamb trimmed coat and
a pastel-blue felt hat trimmed with match-
ing ostrich feathers, and Barbara Bert-
ram, of Sydney.
From Sydney
The most comforting thing in a week,
the background of which to the imagina-
tive mind was an India of blood-splashed
turmoil, was the voice of Lord Louis
Mountbatten making his historic speech
to the leaders of the Moslem and the
Hindu parties. There were wisdom and
understanding in his words, and friend-
ship in his voice. None of those listen-
ing to him could fail to recognise the
sincerity of the man, his own wishes and
the wishes of those he represented, that
India might live in peace, flourish in pros-
perity. Australia, listening, could picture
the good-looking admiral it had liked so
well when he visited this land.
Sydney woman Constance Paul has
just returned after 17 years in England.
She left here an artist and comes back
an architect —an architect, too, who
knows her line of country intimately and
lovingly. London, with its old and solid
mews, its bricked courtyards, its base-
ments which were havens of security
during the hell blitz England endured
with such fortitude, is the city Constance
hopes to have a hand in rebuilding. The
ballroom of the Dorchester, great spread-
ing hosiery factories, her own house in
Berkeley-square, a remodelled mews built
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ


The
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
invites your discussion
of any matters affecting Wills, Executor-
ship, Trusteeship and Estate Manage-
ment. With over sixty years of
experience. The Union Trustee offers
specialised knowledge in all such
matters. Its comprehensive organisation
ensures permanent, competent and sym-
pathetic administration, in complete
confidence. Charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance .
£jf»crii „. siwSS
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South IVales
and Queensland.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS;
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e. ; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD;
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c.; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman):
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e. ; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant’Manager: C. D. Wrigley,
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street —A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stunlm, J. S. Lipscomb.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361 Branches in All States. w
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ŵ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and n.anufactmersof machinery, including stamp batteries.
Can also quote for all classes of m^" g dassifiers, agitators, everlasting
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separat , explosives and accessories,
valves, water- and oil-filters. Rendrock and all otner exp i
Electric motors and Ellison switcn gear
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
,0-12 PARRAMATTA RD.. CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY. HAW.
The WILDCAL COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
Dividends * To Nominal
Pref. Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 5.8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
£ £ £, £ £
1939.. 107.695 43,593 5 p.c.= 62,500 1,602 93,592
1940. .110,950 43,594 *5 ~,, 62,500 4,856 88,448
1941 111,732 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 5,638 94,086
1942.. 110.353 43,594 5 „ ~ 62,500 4,259 98,345
1943. .109,257 43,594 5 „ ~ 62,500 3,163 101.508
1944. .111,385 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 5,291 106,799
Reserves.§
Surplus after revaluing plant, £316,153]
Goodwill (£273,153) written off .. 1 106,799
To depreciation reserve, £48,000 ..J
1945. 43,594 5 p.c. = 62,500 8,667 115,466
5.9 p.c.
1946. .119,735 44,297 6J „ „ 68,750 6,688 122,154
6 p.c.
1947. .145,704 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 25,704 147,858
j Subject to goodwill, etc., £273,153 until 1944.
§ Excluding depreciation reserve (now £154,697).
Mark Sheldon exchanged the chair-
man’s seat for another at the board table
last year. Chairman since 1926, when
the present co. bought for £2,900,000 the
almost-century-old business from which
the Hordern family has won a large for-
tune, he did much to expand and
modernise the big emporium and to
strengthen its financial structure. The
seat at the head of the table has been
taken by S. G. Rowe, the well-known
lawyer, who also enjoys a wide reputa-
tion in commercial circles.
Never before have retailers enjoyed
such easy trading conditions as prevailed
last year. A strong sellers’ market con-
tinued, and the public had plenty of
money to spend, thanks to completion of
demobilisation and a state of virtually
“full” employment at increased wage
rates. How retail turnovers generally
bounded along is illustrated in the fol-
lowing table, which shows percentage
changes in aggregate sales of 22 Sydney
stores compared with the corresponding
period of the previous year:
Average Three Months Ended
A
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 —2.4 +B.O
1942- —6.0 —19.3 —lB.B —6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 —1.6 +1.3 —l.B —5.7
1944- +6.6 +7.4 +4.8 +3.2 +5.4
1945- +22.5 +30.8 +37.2 +35.3 +31.6
1946- +34.6 +25.0
And the market might have been livelier
still but for shortage of many lines and
continuance of clothes rationing, which
has now ceased to serve any useful pur-
pose in those lines where supply has
caught up with demand. In such cases
the\ upper limit of gross margins fixed
by price-control tends to become the
minimum price, thus eliminating the in-
fluence of competition on mark-up. Costs
continued to advance, owing to wage
lifts and extension of deliveries, but they
were outdistanced by gains from increased
turnover.
The spring in the year’s net earnings
was £25,969. That was after allowing
for depreciation (£56,819, up £1090) and
adding £108,340 net to the tax reserve
(£387,898). The £145,704 of profit, the
best yet, was 7.3 p.c. on the £2,000,000
of share capital, of which £750,000 car-
ries a cumulative 7 p.c., subject to the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act. Half
a point was added to the ord. div., making
it 6 p.c. Hence the distribution to the
prefs. was lifted from 5.9 p.c. to 6 p.c.
The immediate outlook favors mainten-
ance of a high level of turnover, thanks
to abundant employment and buoyant
incomes. Nevertheless, the recent spate
of buying appears to have passed its peak,
and textiles and many other lines are be-
ginning to come forward in better volume.
Also costs, which have not yet felt the
full effects of wage lifts, strikes and other
forms of industrial retardation will be
further inflated by introduction of the
40-hour week in N. S. Wales as from July
1 next. However, the co. has a sound
financial structure and an able manage-
ment, which has won a reputation for
service, careful buying and a firm grip
upon controllable outgoings, all of which
augurs well for earnings as the sellers
market gives way to a buyers’ market
and competition gets more of an edge
on it.
The financial position further un-
proved :
' 1937. 1946. 1947.
Ord. capital . . £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
Debentures .. 000,000 —* T~ ,„
Creditors, etc. . . 84,633 230,745
Tax reserves . . 43,582 279,558 887,898
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 1,281,236 1,119,715 1,111,911
Plant, etc. .. 256,951 338,847 356,663
Stocks . . . . 757,221 855,733 1,192,820
Book debts .. 224,469 158,867 260,566
Cash, etc 63,289 328,172 128,662
To carry an extra £337,087 of stocks,
add £101,699 to debtors’ balances and
£10,012 net to the book value of fixed
assets the cp. went outside for a further
£71,432 and drew upon cash, etc., for
£194,510. The high level of stock is an
insurance against rising prices and delays
in delivery. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£893,982) was
£66,513.
The market counts on maintenance of
an all-round 6 p.c. div. and prices both
prefs. and ords. at 295. 3d. each. The
return at that figure is 4.1 p.c. on the basis
of last year’s distribution. Net tangible
cover is 575. 3d. prefs", and 225. 4d. ords.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1937 .. 13,887 12i p.c. = 9,375 4,512 49,607
Estab. exes., etc., capitalised, £24,924.. 24,683
1938 .. 10,895 5 p.c. = 4,000 6,895 31,578
Net addition estab. account,' £13,777.. 17,801
Pref. Ord. 1
7 p.c. 6 p.c.
1939 .. 11,266 8,683 4,000 16,434
7 p.c.
1940 .. 16,755 5,600 5,600 5,555 21,989
1941 .. 12,698 6,600 5,600 1,498 23,487
1942 . . 13,945 5,600 5,600 2,745 26,232
Unexplained addition reserves, £4250.. 30,482
1943 .. 14,180 5,600 5,600 2,980 33,462
To tax provision, £18,145 .. .. 15,317
1944 . . 13,018 5,600 5,600 1,818 17,135
3| p.c.
1945 .. 5,774 6,600 2,800 .14,509
Unexplained addition res., £12,960 .. 27,469
From “Special Depreciation Reserve,”
£52,015 79,484
7 p.c.
1946 . . 16,247 5,600 5,600 6,047 84,531
The co.’s title no longer describes its
function: operations in New Guinea
ceased in 1942 and will probably not be
resumed. Whether they can adequately
be replaced by new avenues is a question
which the capable directorate has so far
been able to defer by various expedients,
but the issue may soon have to be faced
outright.
First year in the above table, 1937,
was actually the ninth in the co.’s life.
.Dividends till then had averaged 25 p.c.
yearly, besides a bonus issue of £20,000
in scrip. But after 1936 the co. met
keen competition in its work of air
transport between the coast and the Lae
goldfields. War in the Pacific suspended
the service altogether, much of the co.’s
property suffering from enemy action.
Now it is found that a war-time road
built to the goldfields has enabled cheaper
motor transport to take over the co.'s
former business.
As early as 1937, steps were taken to
find alternatives. A service between
Adelaide and Darwin was begun, as well
as a comprehensive fretwork within S.
Australia. The co. has depended largely
on mail contracts from the, Government.
Since the lapsing of war-time contracts
for maintenance of U.S. and R.A.A.F.
aircraft, the Darwin route has been the
main source of revenue. The Government
itself now intends to fly this route,
through T.-A.A*. (B, 4/6/’47), and loss
of official business would be fatal to the
co.’s service.
Possibility of such an impasse was fore-
seen by the board over two years ago,
when it twice advised shareholders to
accept a merger arrangement with
A.N.A. By its terms each share would
have received the equivalent of a steady
10 p.c. div, from A.N.A. on a preferential
basis, besides valuable rights, but Guinea
shareholders rejected the offer. Directors
suggested on that occasion that if the
merger were refused the co. might have
to dissolve later. Their subsequent policy
has clearly been to strengthen liquidity ;
in liquid assets alone there is now net
backing of 235. Id. for each £1 ord.;
1936. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £75,000 £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Special depre- c
ciation reserve 49,959 50,251
12 ’ 648 2, - 851 { 2«:"§
Fixed assets.. 70,950 91,645 44,375 70,998
War claims.. 98,230 9,318 9,493
Debtors . . 26,662 72,400 44,814 4.278
Cash etc. . . 40,033 _ 9,167 185,480 247,851
“Special Depreciation Reserve” was a
consequence of war-damage cl P™ s V
the co. had been conservative in valuing
its assets, the replacement c ,
which it was entitled for dest' >
property was much greater than
value; difference was offset in tne
balance-sheet by this special reserve a
damage claim of £92,499 was admitted by
the Government —for property m N- •
which is not likely to be required again.
Since last balancing-date, £20,000 of cast
holdings have been myested m Aust.
National Hotels Pty. Ltd., a co. formed
to buy the West Point Hotel in Hobart.
This may presage entry into the tourist
business, after the example of the Ansett
airlines.
Capital consists of 80,000 ords, an
80,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs., all of £l. for
the ords. there is a total net tan gib
backing of 435. 3d., and they are pnceci
around 295., yielding 4.8 p.c. on last
dividend. Yield from the prefs. at present
price of 245. 6d. is 5.7 p.c.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ »
1937.. 29,515 6 p.c. = 29,474 41 51,251
1938.. 21,291 4 „ „ 19,649 1,642 5.2,893
1939.. 34,685 7 „ „ 34,386 299 53,192
1940.. 33,872 7 „ 34,386 62,678
1941.. 33,261 7 „ „ 34,386 61,003
1942.. 35,033 7 „ „ 34,386 647 52,200
1943.. 34,821 7 „ „ 84,386 435 52,635
1944.. 35,215 7 „ „ 34,386 829 53,464
To inner reserves, £3OOO .. •• j 0,464
1945.. 23,471 5 p.c. = 24,562 49,373
1946.. 10,788 2 „ „ 9,824 964 50,337
The recession in earnings over the last
two years was due to drought, which
affected the 1945 figure, and the State-
wide strike of meat workers last term.
The strike began in April and ended in
June, when the Queensland Government
belatedly stepped in and ordered the
unions to make labor available for re-
opening the works, which had been idle
for about 14 weeks. Since this idleness
occurred at the beginning of the killing
season, thousands of cattle which, in the
ordinary course of events, would have
been treated were lost to the industry, and
the dispatch of carcasses and canned
meats to Britain and elsewhere was
greatly impeded.
There was a sharp drop of £12,619 in
net earnings, which were the poorest for
15 years. The £10,788 of profit was a
mere 2.1 p.c. on capital as against 4.7,
7.1, 7, 7.1, 6.7, 6.9 and 7 p.c. back to
1939. The div., which had been steady
at 7 p.c. for the half-dozen years to end
1944, dropped from 5 p.c. to 2 p.c.
As for the outlook, seasonal prospects
have been brightened by recent rains, and
the British meat contract runs until
September, 1948, at prices around present
levels, subject to review at the request of
either Government on grounds of sub-
stantial alteration in conditions. Another
feature of the agreement is provision for
progressive export of chilled beef as suit-
able shipping becomes available. Export
of canned meat is subject to annual regu-
lation. Owing to the acute shortage of
food in Britain, Europe and parts of Asia,
there should be no lack of demand for
export during the current term.
The co. considers that price-control for
tallow and hides should now be removed,
and Complains that full details of the
contract with Britain for purchase ot
meat have not been disclosed to those
in the industry, as they should be. Chief
danger to the meatworks lies in rising
costs, aggravated by strikes and condi-
tions on the waterfront. And there
is always the possibility that t


w
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
PIPE SMOKERS
REPAIR SERVICE
An old pipe is like an old friend. How long
have you enjoyed his quiet companionship.
The mouthpiece may be broken, or the stem
cracked, but we can replace the mouthpiece,
and, by fitting a silver mounting, remedy the
cracked stem. If you think your pipe is too far
gone to repair, give our experts the opportunity
to decide. Acting on their advice, we will
communicate with you at once and let you
know their decision.
Genuine Vulcanite Stems, straight,
bent or square, each . . . . 57-
Sterling Silver Mountings, each . . 3/6
Plus postage for return.
All pipes returned per registered mail in
7 days. N.Z. and island trade catered for.
Trade enquiries invited.
RICHARDS & HAMILTON,
2nd Floor, 756 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 2056.
Large Industrial and Commercial
House in India requires
a Very Capable and Influential Firrri
in Australia to act as
SELLING AGENTS
for • LINSEED OIL.
• CASTOR OIL
• GROUNDNUT OIL
• KAPOK OIL
• and other VEGETABLE OILS
and also to act as
EXPORT AGENTS
for ELECTRICAL GOODS, HARDWARES,
CHEMICALS, WOOLLEN PIECE GOODS,
HOSIERY, BUTTER AND TINNED
PROVISIONS, ETC.
Applying firms must have a good hold
of the Australian Market,
Detailed applications stating terms, past
experience of lines handled and furnishing
Commercial and Banking references, should be
addressed to
Swaika Export & Import, Ltd.
“Pollock House,”
28a Pollock Street,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ' SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ROBERT BROWN late of Wollongong.
—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS BROWN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1722 of 1947 on the
grounds of your desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 30th
June 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 297
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
Public Notice,
I, PIETRO VAIENE, of Italian nationality, born
at Teglio, in the province of Sondrio, Italy, and resi-
dent 22 years in Australia, now residing at 43 Brown
Street, Paddington, N.S.W., intend to apply for natu-
ralisation under the Nationality Act, 1920-36.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
More than £24,000 a day
paid to members and their
families in 1946
Chairman announces record year
In the course of his speech at the Annual Meeting,
the Deputy Chairman of the A.M.P. Society (Mr.
C. H. Hoskins) informed members as to the great
stability and progress of their Society:
• The year 1946 was a
record year in the Soci-
ety’s History. It arranged
for £58,431,530 of new
Life Assurance for old
and new members.
# Through their A.M.P.
Policies members are now
■protected to the extent
of £520,000,000.
% Last year the Society paid
out in claims to members
and their families
£9,114,195, which is
equal to more than
£24,000 a day.
• The Reversionary .>o,.ases-
for 1946 to be allotted at
the end of this month
total £6,008,000.
• Members’ assets at 31st
December last were
conservatively valued at
£172,771,922.
• The Society grows from
strength to strength. It
is truly co-operative and
mutual. It belongs to the
policyholders absolutely.
If you are not a member, become one. Don’t delay. Seize
on membership while you are in good health. Ask the nearest
A.M.P. Office or Representative to advise you how best you
can use the Society to strengthen your financial position.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Deputy Chairman.
Sir Frederick H. Tout, J. Hubert Fairfax, W. A. Mackay, Dr. S. A. Smith,
Septimus G. Rowe.
Sydney Osmond, General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
STATEMENT
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES NEW ISSUE
Finance for Big
Reconstruction Programme
Mr.* R. S. Thomson, Chairman of Direc-
tors of Richards Industries Limited,
announces that to cover the cost of
reconversion from war-time to a greatly
expanded peace-time production pro-
gramme, existing shareholders are to be
approached to provide funds for additional
issues of 59,915 ordinary shares of £1
each (being all the unissued ordinary
shares) and 230,170 “B” ordinary shares
of 10/-.
The Member Companies of Chrysler
Dodge Distributors (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
are prepared to take up the whole of the
Ordinary and “B” Ordinary shares com-
prised in this issue, and have entered into
an agreement whereby, without charge to
the Company, they undertake to purchase
all of such ordinary shares or such lesser
number as the Directors may allot to
them. In addition, the Member Com-
panies of Chrysler Dodge Distributors
(Australia) Pty. Ltd. have applied for an
aggregate number of 230,170 of the B
Ordinary shares reserved for issue to
them by the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of the Company. The success
of the issue is thereby guaranteed with-
out cost to the Company. '
The Directors, however, consider that
ordinary shareholders should be given an
opportunity to participate in the issue of
the 59,915 Ordinary shares, and this right
will be reserved for them until the 24th
June next.
The Company’s future manufacturing
plans envisage an increased Australian
content in cars and trucks on a progres-
sive basis, in addition to an enlarged out-
put of car and truck bodies.
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Keswick, South Australia
Government will step in and take over
the works.
The co.’s offshoot in Malaya, the Singa-
pore Cold Storage Co., is under way
again, but progress is still hampered by
control of imports into Singapore and of
exports from Australia, and by shortage
of shipping space. The parent’s holding
in the pup and the Ross River (Towns-
ville) works, where new construction is
in progress, together appear in the books
at £421,134:
1939. 1943. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £491,232 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* '.. 319,459 306,756 308,074 269,140
Fixed assets, etc. 329,155 436,024 425,248 421,134
Stock. .. 283,079 18,516 15,720 20,006
Stores .. 18,992 36,004 34,916 42,667
Debtors .. 65,143 97,574 129,522 87,721
Cash etc. . . 201,900 226,500 216,000 199,004
Shares subsid. 50,000 50,000 50,000
Advances subsid. 20,391 1,834 •
* Including provision for contingencies.
The shares in subsidiary item is the co.’s
holding in Northern Manufacturers Pty.,
which took over the can-making section
of the business in 1941. When the books
closed more or less liquids (excluding
shares in subsidiary) exceeded liabilities
(including the div.) by £70,434, an im-
provement of £5078 over the twelve-
month.
The market sums up the risks by
pricing the f.-p. 15s. shares, covered by
16s. 6d. in net tangibles, at par.
The anticipated maiden div. from Mt.
Isa (Q.), paid capital £1,994,202, has been
declared. It is an interim 2s. a share
(=' 10 p.c.) in respect of the year to
June 30 next, for which a profit of about
£875,000, before taxation, is expected
from silver-lead bullion and zinc con-
centrates, production of which had been
suspended for nearly three years to May,
1946. The new share issue, one-for-one
at par, has been underwritten free by
American Smelting and Refining Co.,
New York. The new capital is wanted
to help finance plant extension, etc., in-
cluding erection of a modern copper
smelter (capacity 1500 tons blister a
month) and addition of a 30,000-ton-a-
-month unit to the mill to handle copper
sulphides. Loans of £701,870 are to be
repaid in cash to the Mining Trust,
Britannia Lead, and American Smelting
and Refining cos., which will then be
offered a further 561,496 £1 shares at
255. (Aus.) each. When the new smelter,
etc., gets going—about two years hence —
annual production is expected to reach
37.000 tons lead, 18,000 tons copper,
50.000 tons zinc concentrates and
2,775,0000 z. silver. Taking lead at £44
(stg.) a ton, silver at 3s. (stg.) an ounce
and copper at £95 (Aus.) a ton, a profit
of £1,155,000 (Aus.) is spoken of. That
is on the basis of present costs and before
allowing for taxation and other contin-
gencies. The actual amount available for
distribution among shareholders will be
governed mainly by the course of metal
prices and costs, and is likely to be less
than half the figure mentioned.
Interest in the hunt for oil in Australia
has been revived by the activities of
several major groups of cos. which have
undertaken, or are about to undertake,
large prospecting programmes. The
search covers four localities: (1) an area
of about 100,000 square miles north of
Lake Frome, where N.S.W., Q. and S.A.
meet, (2) a large unexplored area around
Bonaparte Gulf, on the border of N.T. and
W.A., (3) an area of about 133,000 square
miles in from Broome (W.A.) to the edge
of the Desert Basin, and a coastal strip
of some 33,000 square miles south of
North West Cape (W.A.), and (4) an area
of about 60,000 square miles in the Roma
(Q.) district. Vacuum Oil, Zinc Corp.
and D’Arcy Exploration (a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Anglo Iranian) are
jointly interested in the first area, where
the Federal Bureau of Mineral Research
is assisting in preliminary work. The
same three cos. are also interested in the
second and third areas. In the Roma
district Shell (Q.) Development Pty., an
offshoot of the big Shell Oil Co., is on
the hunt, and so is a group of four Aus-
tralian cos. —Roma Blocks Oil, Kalimna
Oil, Australian Oil Development and
Roma North Oil.
*r* * *
Still beating the optimistic drum, Evan-
ston Gold (W.A.) says that, while the
recent return of 325 fine ounces from
1210 tons was low in tonnage and grade,
owing to mechanical difficulties and water
shortage, the current month’s is expected
to show a substantial improvement. The
mine is said to be almost ready to fur-
nish higher-grade ore than any previ-
ously treated. Shareholders hope so.
v * * *
Lake View Investment Trust, formed
in London in 1920 to acquire the assets
of Lake View and Oroya Exploration and
now possessed of a large block of world-
wide gilt-edged securities as well, shows
a profit of £69,643 stg. for year ended
March last. Dividends of 5 p.c. pref. and
11 p.c., plus 1 p.c. bonus, ord. are an-
nounced.
* * * *
London-controlled Boulder Perse-
verance, whose 24-acre holding is right
in the centre of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.), will pay 7 } p.c., less U.K.
income tax 9s. in £, on July 3, making
total distribution in respect of 1946 15
p.c., compared with 12} p.c. and 10 p.c.
for the two preceding, years.


ŵ
PRODUCTION AND BANKING
HE PRINCIPAL
BUSINESS of a
bank is to lend
money. Most of its
income is made by lending.
A bank is a machine tor facilitating
tbe production and distribution of
tbe goods and services produced by
its customers <— * it is tbe servant of its
customers. It progresses only as tbey
progress and prosper.
Yet a bank must lend in sucb a
way as to leave unimpaired tbe com-
plete confidence of its depositors in
its stability and good judgment. It
must lend wisely, otherwise it would
soon be out of business.
Tbe Bank s Managers in Head
Office, and in more tban 500
Branches, are always glad to discuss
tbe question of Credit with those
desiring it.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LID.
Missing Friend. _____
michaelTgaffney sought. - ”
twit PUBLIC TRUSTEE for Victoria (who is
administrator of the estate of MARY GAfT-
KEY, Deceased) desires to communicate with the
abovenamed Michael Gaffney, who is believed to have
been born at Sugarloaf, Victoria, in or
vear 1859, and who was married to the above
named Mary Agnes Gaffney (maiden surname
Kennedy) at Brisbane, Queensland, on the 26th Feb
ruary 1885. The said Michael Gaffney is believed
to have followed the occupations of contractor and
drover Would any person having information which
St help to trace the said Michael Gaffney if he
i the date and place el hi. death « he »
dead please communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS
TEE FOR VICTORIA, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Protect your Property—insure with
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
’Phone:
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000
NSW Branch: 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
B W 8131 (3 Lines) c. R. CORNWELL. Manager^
SUNDRY SHONS
Good Tiv. Bill.
There’s a pickpocket at large at Sydney
Tivoli, but with the full approval of the
management and the audience, which
takes an almost breathless delight in hav-
ing its collective pockets investigated and
the contents displayed on the stage. Vic
Perry is the genial dip, a young man who
has been in the business since he was
ten and whose father and grandfather
before him followed the same calling—
on the stage, of course.
The speed and dexterity with which
Mr. Perry empties his victims’ pockets
and then fills ’em and empties ’em again
baffles not only his subjects but also an
audience with its eyes glued on his hands.
A Bulletin showman, rather doubting
Mr. Perry’s ability to perform bis feats
without some form of trickery or assist-
ance, ambled around backstage, where,
after offering him a cigarette and lighting
it, Mr. Perry kindly returned the show-
man’s wallet, cigarettes, handkerchief and
small change which he had painlessly re-
moved, apparently while lighting the
cigarette. l In the process Mr. Perry
also effectively removed any doubts
the showman had previously entertained
as to his ability to make —or obtain —a
living anywhere in the world, except
where natives run about in their bare
pelts.
The audience’s appreciation of Mr.
Perry’s excursions into their pockets is
equalled by its enjoyment of the assaults
on its risible faculties by one Chaz
Chase, a diminutive comic with a seem-
ingly omnivorous appetite. In the course
of the evening he devours his cigarettes,
matches, handkerchief, buttonhole, cloth-
ing and other odds and ends with the un-
ceasing and industrious voracity of a ter-
mite. Underlying Mr, Chase’s stunting
and gagging, however, there is something
better than routine comedy, something
of the true clown. Like “Mo” and
George Wallace, he has the gift to possess
his audience completely and make it
laugh simply by looking at it.
Along with Chase and Perry, the Tiv.
has half a dozen or more good acts, mak-
ing its current show a tiptop vaudeville
bill, Alphonse Berge, “The Great
Drapo,” in the space of a few seconds,
conjures up glamorous gowns for his
equally glamorous models using straight
bolts of cloth for his raw material; there
is an animal-like sinuosity and grace
about Marlene Starr’s dancing and a
startling familiarity about Ivan Diedrich’s
impersohations of Tauber, Churchill and
others.
Warren, Latona and Sparks are three
happily-abandoned fallabout merchants ;
Latasha and Laurence are two dancers,
the latter half being also an excellent
contortionist who switches his vertebrae
from series to parallel without effort;
Lela Moore turns on one of those double
impersonations with such skill that it
seems, if there aren’t two people on the
stage, the young lady must be schizo-
phrenic ; and the Three Florays strain
and twist their torsos in a manner that
would confound a double-jointed octopus.
Claudio Arrau.
The Chilean pianist came to Sydney
with something in his swag for every
taste. His liking for the dramatic was
particularly noticeable in his reading of
the recitative in the Bach Chromatic
Fantasy and Fugue. In the swirling fury
of the fantasy, s with its extended soaring
runs and descending chromatics, the
piano itself seemed injected with passion.
The fugue that followed was stark in its
austerity.
The Beethoven F Minor Sonata (“The
Appassionata”) was the essence of drama,
the pianist putting tremendous vitality
into the allegro assai. In a later concert
he showed Beethoven in the carefree,
early mood —the Sonata Opus 31 No. 3
in E Flat Major. This was captivating
in its entirety, the pianist achieving
phrasing and tonal shadows of great
beauty.
Arrau’s Chopin, even in the Ballade
in A Flat Major, the Berceuse and the
Nocturne Op. 27 No. 1, where delicacy
is called for, was never anaemic—the
lightest touch had vibrancy. Schumann’s
Etudes Symphoniques was exciting, the
finale to the nine variations being par-
ticularly brilliant. Pieces by Granados
and Albeniz had rather more repose than
is usually expected of the later Spanish
school.
As interesting as any of the shorter
French works were Chabrier’s Scherzo
Valse and Debussy’s Prelude, Sarabande
and Toccata —like shimmering silk trans-
lated into sound.
Charles Bush.
Most grfeat artists have said at
time or another that they had painfully
to unlearn what they learned at |the
academies. Charles Bush, who was one
of Melbourne National Gallery’s most
successful pupils, is apparently in the
first stages of the struggle, judging by his
exhibition of oils and drawings at
George’s, Melbourne,
“Family Outing, Elwood,” depicting a
group of people squatting on the fore-
shore surveying a wilderness of breakers ;
“Sunday Afternoon, Flagstaff Gardens” ;
and two studies of foaming ocean
labelled “Storm Sketch” are in a sense
records of the battle Bush is making be-
tween what he feels and observes and ,the
dictates of the Gallery conventions.
In his academic “Nude,” the Gallery
is the winner, but in “The Professor and
the Shrimp Girl” he seems to have made
some headway, the picture on the wall
behind the figure being a good souvenir
of Hogarth’s picture. “On St. Kilda
Pier,” one of the most ambitious paint-
ings, has wipd blowing through it.
"My Favorite Brunette."
There are dark and dreadful doings
in this current offering at Sydney Prince
Edward. A child photographer, who
aspires to the calling of private detective,
is called in by a beautiful baroness to
solve the mystery of her missing uncle.
The trail leads to a castle full of crooks,
to a lunatic asylum similarly populated
and to luxurious hotels and night clubs.
Violence and murder are done and there
are screaming car chases and other hair-
raising forms of excitement.
The plot, tangled and tortuous, calls
for a highly competent actor. Mr. Bob
Hope is the player assigned to the task,
and he further tangles and tortures it to
an extent that fills the Prince Edward with
a veritable storm of mirth and displaced
waistcoat buttons. Dorothy Lamour is
the brunette. She wears enough hard-
ware to stock a jeweller’s shop and
enough furs to feed a whole colony o
moths for a decade.
"The Locket."
On the back of a seat in Sydney Cen-
tury the cleaners will find an admirable
“Chad” drawing asking “What —no
respite?” The artist was probably re-
ferring to the run of “psychological
films, of which “The Locket” is the latest
example.
The film has its moments— right at the
end —and if the filrhgoer could time his
run to turn up then he would probably
enjoy the show immensely. If he arrives
at the beginning, however, he will learn,
by means of flashbacks within flashbacks,
that Laraine Day, as a small girl, be-
came all twisted up inside. The person
who supplied the mental indigestion was
a formidable lady who accused the in-
fant of pilfering a locket. Her cerebral
hiccups are still going strong ih woman-
hood, when she takes diamonds and hus-
bands where she finds them, and one
successful pot-shot at an old jewel-
fancier. From her admirable marksman-
ship in hitting him squarely in the pot it
is easy to see that Laraine has become
a bad girl all because she was frustrated
in her childhood.
Towards the end of the film, when
Laraine is donning her veil and the
bridegroom is downstairs awaiting the
axe, his mother enters the dressing-room
intent on giving the bride an old family
heirloom in the shape of a locket. Yes,
you’ve guessed it! The remaining five
minutes of the film are very good, very
graphic and very necessary after the two
hours odd of drivel which come before.
Reviewed Briefly.
Artbursls
C. Salis Lloyd (Kozminsky’s, Mel-
bourne) is another ex-Gallery student who
dates back to Bernard Hall’s day. He
has been more easily content to fulfil his
artistic mentors, and some of his Vic-
torian landscapes have a touch of the
enamelled sweetness of the Buvelot tradi-
tion. A self-portrait is one of his most
distinguished efforts.
Stage and Concert
After postponing a concert because of
laryngitis, John Charles Thomas pro-
duced a baritone in as good a condition
as ever at Melbourne Town Hall. An
audience that was almost sitting on each
other’s knees gave its usual instant re-
sponse to the American s popular
numbers, and he obliged them with
“Sing a Song for Sixpence” and the grim
tale of “Danny Deever.” It was equally
appreciative of his classic items.
At the Films
“The Egg and I” (Sydney State):
Comical adventures of young ex-service-
man and his wife who buy a broken-
down poultry-farm and make out through
flood, fire and foolishness. Fred Mac-
Murray and Claudette Colbert are the
pair, with solid support from Marjorie
Main and Donald Macßride. Good light
entertainment with several touches of
human comedy.
* * * *
“The Arnelo Affair” (Sydney St.
James); Villainous John Hodiak owns
a revolver, a night-club and an over-
powering love of things beautiful.
Among the art pieces which he collects
are the wives of other men, a hobby
which eventually finds him a use for
his armament. His marksmanship has
its points, however, for while it liquidates
a brunbtte, it also brings to light a new
actor, Warner Armstong, who gives an
exceptionally good performance as a
feasible detfective.


No. 10 of Series
Bath Salts ...
00
BATH salts consist of alkaline crystals mixed with
a dye and a perfume. The crystals generally
used are sodium carbonate decahydrate and sodium
sesquicarbonate, that is sodium carbonate combined
with “soda bicarb” and water. They act as water
softeners. Except for the distilled water in car and
radio batteries, all water used in the home contains
impurities in varying degrees. It is these impurities
which for one thing make the water hard and prevent
soap lathering, the most usual being carbonate and
sulphate of lime and compounds of magnesium and
calcium. The sodium carbonate in bath salts com-
bines with these substances to form new ones which
are not soluble in water, and so sink to the bottom
of the bath or wash basin and leave the water soft
and pleasant to use. The sodium carbonate, sodium
bicarbonate, dyes and many of the
perfumes used in making bath salts
are products of the British chemical
industry.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
I Cl
Sound Investment —Sayings Certificates
IL-24-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUF SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILLRUM.
The first day of the AJ.C.’s Winter Meet-
ing at Randwick bumped solid opposition in
the form of major football matches in two
codes, with the result that attendance suffered
somewhat. Those who stayed away missed
about as glorious an afternoon for racing as
one could imagine, but as to the results they
may have been showing good judgment—the
shortest-priced winners were a couple at 7 to 1.
An animal of very in-and-out form, Cold
Shower gave punters a poor trot for their cash
in the Flying. At his previous start he won
like a champiofi. Winner of the Flying, and
thus earning a trip to Doomben, was Earl
Pentheus, who received 71b. allowance for
apprentice L. Fox and carried a handy 8.5.
Earl Pentheus dashed to the front at the leger,
but had to be hard ridden to hold the lightly-
weighted Gay Monarch, who was beaten only
a neck. Consistent Brazier was third.
When Buonarroti Boy won at Rosehill the
previous Saturday Avalanche finished out of
a place, but meeting Buonarroti Boy on 101 b.
better terms in the Homestead Handicap Ava-
lanche effectively turned the tables. The pair of
them fought out the finish, with Buonarroti Boy
looking the winner as he got his head in front
nearing the line, but Avalanche (B. Robards)
came again to receive the camera’s verdict.
Fort Denison was third, her fifth minor placing
from six recent starts.
Another consistent filler of minor places is
the two-year-old Set Purpose, who will probably
start winning when he tries a bit of distance.
He gets out of his ground early and finishes
stoutly but too late. Running this type of race
in the Two-year-old Encourage he finished third
behind Boycott (T. Mullane) and Caribbean,
who’s heading for a win. Boycott is the neddy
who won a few weeks back as Shyster; higher
authorities shared this page’s expressed opinion
as to the unsuitability of the name, and they
requested a change.
Although four out of the nine runners were
preferred in the betting, Active Service (J.
Thompson) was the street-corner tip for the
George’s River Handicap and duly won it in
decent style. However, more worthy of keep-
ing in mind were the efforts of some of the
others. Two Grand finished most promisingly
into second place, the mile being probably a
trifle short for him. Decorate’s third also
suggested a coming win in suitable company,
and old Kiaree, though he finished nowhere,
gave promise of winning a middle distance race.
Active Service took 1.421 to run the mile,
times altogether during the day being un-
accountably poor. The track was soft, but
certainly not a bog. Other times recorded
were 1.30| and 1.30 for seven furlongs and
2.411 for a mile and a half; the course record
is Beau Vite’s 2.29. A son of Beau Vite, in-
cidentally, in Beau Robert, made a good im-
pression in winning the Three-year-old Encour-
age. Making it tiis third win from five starts
this year, Beau Robert (A. Mulley) had far
too much finishing dash for the strongly-fancied
pair Coalition and Rotoiti.
Best of the bunch of Novice gallopers who
ambled rather than galloped over 12 furlongs
proved to be the Double Remove gelding Ex-
press. The vigorous riding of E. Fordyce
decided the issue in a photo.-finish, Never
Free and Midwinter filling the minor places.
In every way it was a bookmaker’s race, the
prices of the placed horses being 12 to 1,
33 to 1 and 20 to 1, while Express and
Midwinter are, moreover, owned by book-
makers.
The grey Publicity gelding Granite, whose
wins are about as frequent as income-tax cuts,
downed Gallant Law and Oberon in the High-
weight. Perhaps taxpayers may take heart.
* * * *
Grand National candidates just beginning to
limber up were catered for with a Hurdle and
a Steeple at Moonee Valley. Both produced
fine races and close though rough finishes.
Raising the National hopes of his connections,
the Regular Bachelor five-year-old Bell Tower
downed a good field in the Port Phillip Hurdle.
With E. Sellars up, Bell Tower battled it
out with John Masefield from the home turn
to the judge, where, under a 41b. disadvantage,
John Masefield was just shaded. Bumping
honors must have been considered about even,
as, surprisingly, no protest was entered. Five
lengths further back, Cheery Boy was third
and looked in need of the run, as did Spawater.
Sellars also participated in a rough finish
in the Steeple, he being on the receiving end.
His mount, Salvo, had a ding-dong go with
the S.A. galloper Kingly over the final two
furlongs, but coming on to the course proper
Kingly knocked Salvo against the rail and
went on to pass the judge a couple of lengths
clear. Salvo came in streaked with paint;
Sellars entered: a protest and it was upheld.
Leicester Square was a good third.
High Play’s recent run of successes ended
when he tackled the six furlongs of the Marine
Handicap, for which he was a warm favorite.
He was blocked from getting through near
the turn, just when he looked likely. The
winner, giving jockey H. Williams his first
success on a Melbourne course, was old Millais,
who won the Oakleigh Plate upwards of four
years ago. Partial to the Valley and suited
by the softish going, the old fellow was never
far from the leaders, and when given his head
made short work of Sir Charles, Aggressor, etc.
Having broken the ice, Williams made it a
double by getting Fine Fettle home ahead of
Gayness and the favorite, Bronx, in the Esplan-
ade Handicap of a mile. Millais and Fine
Fettle are stablemates, trained by R. Shaw.
When the field settled down after they’d
travelled a short distance in the Juvenile, Beau
John was leading Black Beau and Traddles,
and, with nothing*' else ever looking likely, the
three went round the mile and passed the
judge in that order. The favorite, Girl James,
dashed supporters’ hopes by dislodging her
rider during the running. By strange co-
incidence, when Beau John won at Moonee Valley
a few weeks back the favorite on that occasion
also came down during the race.
Winner of the 13-furlongs Point Cook Handi-
cap was the aged Manitoba-Queen Thaura
gelding Nepal, who just saw it out ahead of
Clatterbag and Lady Antog.
* * * *
The extent to which English horses suffered
on a war-time diet was further emphasised by
the results of both the Derby and its sister race
The Oaks, both of which went to French horses.
British racegoers recognised the superiority of
the French filly Imprudence, making her a
7-to-4 favorite for The Oaks, which, with Aus-
tralian “Togo” Johnstone aboard, she won in
“That’s the trouble with you , Whiskers —yer don’t know y’re own
strength.”
a canter by five lengths from Netherton Maid
and Mermaid.
When it came to the Derby those seemingly
good judges—the Derby crowd totalled 750,000
—would have nothing to beat the British gal-
lopers. Tudor Minstrel, at odds-on, was one
of the warmest favorites on record. Unfor-
tunately for British hopes, the Derby “hoodoo’
on Gordon Richards didn’t lift. The previously
unbeaten Tudor Minstrel was that otherwise
successful English rider’s 22nd Derby mount,
and he still hasn’t scored. Far too good for
them when it came to the real staying test,
the French colt Pearl Diver, at 40 to 1, had a
very easy win. Migoli (20 to 1) was second
and the second favorite, Sayajirao, ridden by
E. Britt, a close third.
Another reported Derby Day result —it cer-
tainly couldn’t have been a result of the Derby
itself —was the sentencing to quod of 40 bookies
for welshing.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
June Juvenile: Nizam’s Ring, 1; Overland,
2; Kindly Light, 3. Trial Stakes: Montrose,
1; Skymaster, 2; Frontal Attack, 3. June
Nursery: Caribbean, 1; Marine Victory, 2;
Boycott, 3. St. Aubin’s Handicap: Love Star,
1; Joan Dale, 2; Jackie, 3. June Stakes:
Dutchman, 1; Bold Beau, 2; Gay Monarch,
3. Ellesmere Handicap: Kiaree, 1; Spearex,
2; Avalanche, 3. Exeter Handicap: Field
Captain, 1; Man o’ War, 2; Beau Pebble, 3.
*'* * *
For the first time in nearly two decades,
a N.S.W. Rugby Union team on Satur-
day bfeat a New Zealand team. The
game at Sydney Cricket Ground was fast,
tough, spectacular, and with the scores
12-9 there was always some doubt of the
issue. N.S.W.’s greatest individual asset
was winger Bastes, who reproduced his
N.Z. form of last year. Col Windon
shonfc in the loose, and Piper, too, rose
to the occasion. However, with lighter
forwards, the All Blacks were dominant
in the rucks, and their full-back, R. Scott,
is a polished goal-kicker, an asset the
opposition team has yet to find.
Despite the victory, it is probable the
All Blaqks will prove a different proposi-
tion in the Tests. The Australian team
will be largely a N.S.W. team, and may
not, as a team, be superior to the one
that played on Saturday. And some of
the all Blacks’ best men were resting.
* * * *
The S’African Soccer team had its
first defeat in 13 matches when Australia
won 5-1 at Newcastle. Reg Date again
was outstanding, being switched from
inside right to centre-forward, his normal
position. There he scored three goals,
and was instrumental in Hughes and
Kemp scoring.
* * * *
After Saturday’s V.F.L. matches the
“four” became; Carlton at the top, Mel-
bourne slightly ahead of Footscray on
percentages, Collingwood in fourth place.
Melbourne’s move up coincided with its
champion forward, Fanning, moving to
the head of the goal-kickers. He scored
10 goals of his team’s 15.15 against St.
Kilda, 5.13, taking his total to 41 for
the season. Wood (Footscray) is next
with 40 ; Prior (Hawthorn) has 37. Wood
kicked seven when ’Scray, 12.11, ran all
over Fitzroy, 7.7; Prior got three when
Hawthorn outpaced North Melbourne in
a stirring finish to win by 10.15 to 10.11,
There was another close finish when
Richmond managed to beat South Mel-
bourne, 15.13-15.9. Carlton walloped
Geelong, 16.21-7.10, and Collingwood
beat Essendbn, 11.16-9.14.
« * * •
That much overworked word “sensa-
tional” could be applied to th? golf in the
Australian Open at Brisbane. Young
McWilliam, a Second A.I.F. veteran,
started it with an astounding 65 —a
record —and turned for the fourth round
four strokes ahead of the holder, Pick-
worth. Then Pickworth rattled off a 69,
whereas McWilliam weakly hit a 78, and
Pickworth held the championship by five
strokes.
In the third round of the Spalding
tourney on St. Andrew’s old course Von
Nida’s cut tee shot finished beside a
guide post. Though there was a local
rule making the post immovable, the
Queenslander pulled it out and played
his ball. After discussion he replaced the
post and played another ball. His de-
fence was that he didn’t know the rule;
the offence cost him two strokes, but for
which he’d have been second instead of
third. London “Daily Express” declares
that Von Nida swore he’d never play at
St. Andrew’s again. He’s no Cassius ; he
talks too much.
* * * #
“Dick Tafone”: The tragic killing of
a Brisbane golfer by an accidental blow
from another player’s club must be one
of the most curious of all happenings in
the history of the royal and ancient game.
At the tenth hole one player missed his
putt and walked up to hit his ball off
the green. His opponent had picked up
his own ball and stood close behind him
on his left side. He missed, felt a crash
on the club in the follow-through, and
looked round to find his friend lying
dead from a fractured skull.
Providing the finest rowing event seen
on the Nepean for years, the inter-
Varsity race for the Oxford and Cam-
bridge Cup was won by the crew from
Sydney University. Sydney defeated Mel-
bourne by a length and a half, with
W.A. next, followed by Adelaide and
Queensland. Stroked by A. Robson, a
son of L. C. Robson, Shore’s headmaster
and rowing coach, the winning crew com-
prised nearly all ex-G.P.S. rowers, in-
cluding Alan Brown, a former High
oarsman who was subsequently a member
of the R.A.A.F. eight which had much
success in England.
* * * *
Though height, reach and weight were
all his way against Ray Coleman (8.12|)
in their encounter at Leichhardt, Jackie
Wilson (9.4 x) apparently concluded that
discretion was the better part of valor
and kfept backing away. On rare occasions
Jackie did more work with his fists than
his feet, but Coleman was mostly land-
ing punches at the ratio of five to one,
winning decisively.
* * * *
Though Norm Gent (9.9|) clearly out-
pointed Les Fuller (9.9) at Melbourne
Stadium it was a dingdong scrap. Fuller
had the bad luck, or the unwisdom, to
run into a clinking right jolt to the jaw
in the first round, which could have
affected him all the way—it dropped
him for “eight.” Still, Gent fought beauti-
fully.


Commonwealth
advt
of Australia
Legal Service Bureaux
For the purpose of giving legal advice and
service to present and former members of
the Forces and their dependants, the Legal
Service Bureau was established in 1942, as
part of the Commonwealth Attorney-General’s
Department. This Bureau is available to
assist both men and women. Addresses
throughout the Commonwealth are:-
4th Floor, Mercantile Mutual
Building
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone BW 1852
Saxon House
450 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Epworth Building
PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. House
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH
Crown Solicitor’s Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and G. Building
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9124
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
A.W.C. Building
CLEVELAND ST., TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
Commercial Banking Company o£
Sydney
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON
Telephone 3169
Police Building
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6658
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Offiee
DARWIN
Under Part II of the Re-establishment and Employment Act
1945, members and ex-members of the Forces are entitled to
preference in certain circumstarlces in engagement for
employment. They also have other special rights—for
example, in relation to housing and tenancy, and moratorium
and re-establishment benefits.
The Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Legal Service Bureau
advises, without charge, on all legal matters affecting service-
men or their dependants. Any member or ex-member of the
Forces who believes he has not been given the treatment to
which he is entitled, under the Re-establishment and Employ-
ment Act or otherwise, is invited to place the facts of his
case before the Legal Servicp Bureau, either by letter or
by personal call.
H. V. EVATT,
Attorney-General of the
Commonwealth.
II
i I
ii
1
n
n I
The Guardian of the Emu Totem,
Central Australia.
One of the series of plaques
depicting aboriginal life, modelled
by Ralph T. Walker, cast in
bronze by Wunderlich Limited,
and incorporated in the bronze
doors of the N.S.W. Public
Library.
Reproductions in Metals
The craftsmen in metals at Wunderlich Limited are adept at faithfully
interpreting the designer's modelling for plaques, entablatures, memorials
and lettering in metals; cast, wrought, or stamped.
Architects planning the employment of metal doors, grilles, coats-of-arms
and other metal-work in future construction are invited to collaborate with
Wunderlich Limited. 'Phone MX 2411, write to S.P.O. Box 474, Sydney, or,
better still, visit our nearest showrooms.
Architectural metalwork
I I IN B*ONZ£ - ALUMINIUM • STAINLESS STtfL CTC
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, MANUFACTURERS OF BUILDING
OF QUALITY FOR OVER 50 YEARS, BAPTIST ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
Branches: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., BRISBANE. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LAUNCESTON, HOBART.
PERTH: Associates. H. L. BRISBANE & WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
Business Rollery.Ete
Lost Opportunities
If Australia is to support a substantially
larger population, with a high and rising
standard of living, industrial expansion
and efficiency will have to be the central
aims of public policy. Two things essen-
tial to industrial expansion are markets
and production of the right type of
goods at the right price. Since plant
capacity in many industries is now cap-
able of taking care of a larger demand
than the home market provides, it is to
external markets that we shall have to
look for large-scale growth and future
benefits. Here our highly efficient iron-
and-steel industry and lead and zinc re-
fineries, comparable with anything of
their kind in the world, have pointed the
way, despite the hampering tactics of
organised labor.
Opportunity still exists for the
chemical, textile and canned foods indus-
tries to capture and hold markets in
Indonesia, India and China. The first
essential to establishing'goodwill in these
hungry markets is to produce and deliyei
the goods, and then, as the transition
period merges into the post-war era,
quality and price will become the deter-
mining factors in holding and expanding
our connections. The failure of manu-
facturers to seize the opportunities offer-
ing, and to make the most of them, has
been due not to .any lack of enterprise
or technical efficiency on their part, but
mainly to failure of labor, capital’s co-
partner in production, to do its full share
in producing and delivering the goods,
and partly to the tardy efforts of the
Government in paving the way for export
opportunities.
While management can plan, and has
planned, to meet changed conditions and
to make the most of its opportunities,
results depend not only on the few who
direct but also on the many whose job
it is to co-operate in doing the physical
work involved. Costs and selling prices
are being bumped up and output per
man-hour reduced by persistent wage
lifts, shorter hours, strikes and other in-
dustrial hold-ups. The alternative and
more desirable course, especially during
the transition period of shortages, would
be to hold wages relatively steady, in-
crease production and reduce selling
prices as output and turnover increased.
Everybody would then be better off, and
a lift in wages and reduction in hours
might be possible without endangering
our present high standard of living.
And the Government, with a Cabinet
manned by socialists and trade-unionists,
has allowed the seamen’s and waterside
“You re looking for money? Then I'LL help you look!"
workers’ unions to dictate in a practical
way the country’s external trade policy
with Indonesia. All these things, to-
gether with maintenance of high war-time
company taxation, have combined to re-
duce our competitive power in external
markets. To step up production and
keep costs in check industry needs an
adequate supply of coal and power, and
many other things the output and supply
of which are dependent upon coal and
power, as well as a co-operative labor
force, conscious of the fact that its place
in the life of the community depends, no
less than that of management, on squar-
ing its purpose and methods with the
public interest in efficient and unrestricted
service.
The Position in N.E.I.
Before the war the N.E.1., which lies
. across the route from Europe to Aus-
tralia via Singapore and from South and
South-East Asia to the South-West Pacific,
occupied an important place in world
production of such commodities as sugar,
rubber, tin, pepper, quinine, tea, copra,
edible oils and petroleum. With the aid
of mainly Dutch and a little British capi-
tal a highly-efficient economy, backed by
large-scale auxiliary services, such as
banking, transport and insurance, had
developed.
As a result of the Japanese occupation
the productive capacity of the islands has
been severely disorganised, and, in some
cases, destroyed, for the time being at
any rate. Politically the occupation
stimulated and strengthened the nationally,
movement, and, in place of a weak and
disorganised opposition, the Dutch
authorities have found themselves faced
by men, some of capacity and ability, in
charge of large armies of Japanese-trained
troops armed with Japanese materials.
Moreover, the Indonesian economic
system is drifting and falling into dis-
repair. To rebuild it foreign credits will
be needed. Much will depend upon
whether the Dutch Government is able
to provide these credits in the volume
required. The Dutch have the necessary
knowledge of the country and the people
and the trained personnel, and, despite
the present execrable feelings, century-
old financial, economic and cultural links
are not easily broken. It is*,high time that
the Commonwealth Government and Aus-
tralian trade-unionism, having registered
their moral indignation against our recent
allies, the Dutch, began to give a little
attention to their country’s and their own
self-interest by fostering and not imped-
ing trade with the N.E.I.
Toward the end of the war the Japanese
ceased buying from the natives, because
of inability to move strategic raw
materials. With no incentive, the natives
simply stopped collecting copra, resins,
rubber, oils, etc., and concentrated on
raising enough food for themselves and
their families. It is estimated that about
one-third of the sugar mills will have to
be completely rebuilt and re-equipped.
Tin dredges, sunk by the Dutch but
raised and worked though not maintained
by the Japanese, need extensive recon-
ditioning and re-equipment. It is reckoned
that about two-fifths of the tea planta-
tions will have to be replanted. Strenu-
ous efforts are being made to get the oil
refineries in Borneo, wrecked by bombing
and shelling, producing to capacity again.
The oil refineries in Sumatra are re-
ported to have suffered little damage.
The acute shortage of inter-island ship-
ping-large numbers of native dhows
and other small vessels were confiscated
or sunk —is hampering recovery.
Speaking generally, there are shortages
of all types of capital equipment and of
many classes of consumption goods,
especially textiles, throughout the islands.
To hold up their shipment in Australian
ports, because our seamen and waterside
workers don’t like the political climate
in these islands at the moment, is an
act of the economically blind and indus-
trially backward.


Union Bank
of Australia Limited
( Incorporated in England)
&
qmppe
to
provide
every
banking
service
d
OF
&
&
•k
Established 1837
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
-
wmmt
mm
//
jmmM.
'Xlli
C
' ...j
SSS
Wi
iilillliill
lllliilii
iiiiiiii
Mil,-
> :>>, «> OYERPftOOF -. , < , *
mg,CAssoH 4 co, ptt. itp. .. est. ««
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
of the Directors’ Report Presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
held Wednesday, 28th May, 1947
at the Offices of the Society, No. 31 6 Collins Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
9 ■- ■
AIX DEPARTMENTS.
New Policies issued during the year .. .. .. 84,353
Assuring (excluding Accident and Sickness Benefits) .. .. £37,496,976
Total Income for 1946 7,966,537
Interest Income 1,655,000
Total Payments to Policyholders during 1946.. .. 3,019,785
Total Surpluses. 1,073,078
Special Reserve for Contingencies .. .. .. .. .. .. 3,430,701
Total Funds as at Slst December, 1946 .. .. .. .. .. 43,633,710
' CONTINUED ECONOMY. The percentage of Renewal Premium Income
of the Ordinary Department absorbed in Expenses (excluding Taxation
and self-charged Rent) was only 8.053 p.c.
The Society is wholly mutual, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the Policyholders only.
TOTAL PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS SINCE INCEPTION —£48,179,477
Interest earned on mean Assurance Funds of the three Departments—£4/2/9 p.c.
Ihe Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render exceptional service to the assuring public.
PURELY MUTUAL NO SHAREHOLDERS
PIONEERS OF GROUP INSURANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
The Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.0.M.G., Chairman;
Sir DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B.; GEORGE D. HEALY;
Major-General VRANK P. DERHAM, 0.8., D. 5.0., Y.D.;
r. v. s. McPherson.
General Manager: CECIL B. HEARN, C.8.E., P.C.I.S.
Actuary: D. DRYBROUGH, M.A., F.F.A
Chief Medical Officer: A. E. ROWDEN WHITE, M.D..
F.R.A.O.P.
LOCAL BOARDS OP.DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS;
NEW SOUTH WALES: 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors: Sir SYDNEY SNOW, K.8.E., Chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS, Assoc. Inst. C.E.; Hon. Sir GRAHAM
WADDELL, K.8.E., M.L.O.
Medical Director: A. HOLMES a’ COURT, M.D., F.R.C.P.
Manager: JOHN ANDERSON,. P.A.1.1.
QUEENSLAND: 289 and 291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Director: JOHN E. TRUDE.
Medical Director: S. F. McDONALD, M.D., F.R.C.P.,
F.R.A.C.P.
Manager: W. TRAVERS, F.O.C.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 45 King William Street, Adelaide.
DirectoV: Brigadier-General G. H. DEAN, C.8.E., V.D.
Medical Director: Sir TRENT OHAMPION-de ORESPIGNY,
D. 5.0., F.R.C.P.
Manager: A. J. GROSS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 53 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Directors: H. B. JACKSON, K. 0., Chairman; CHARLES
DIAMOND.
Medical Director: D. M. McWHAE, M.D., F.R.C.P-
Manager; J. A. EDWARDS.
TASMANIA: 18-20 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Director; Hon. Sir JOHN McPHEE, K.C.M.G., M.H.A.
Manager: A. de JONGH.
M. B. John, Ltd. (Vic.)
Having decided recently to convert to
a public co., the directors of M. B. John
Pty., Ltd., first effected a very substantial
writing up of capital from reserves, with
a further capital increase by subscription
from shareholders. Then, to obtain the
“spread” for official listing on ’Change,
a parcel of 60,000 shares was offered
to outsiders. The offer has been taken
firm by clients of the co.„’s broker, J, T.
Vinton Smith.
Established in Ballarat in 1896, and
a proprietary co. since 1927, it is now
probably the largest Australian co. en-
gaged exclusively in valve manufacture.
Hitherto, membership has been confined
to the John family and the co. has evi-
dently operated on a capital of £33,904,
backed by much larger reserves. When
official listing is granted, capital will stand
at £203,424, in £1 ords. The expansion
by £169,520 has been carried out as fol-
lows: —
Issued free to original members :
101,712 shares, created by
capitalising £75,149 of existing
visible reserves, and by writing
up assets by £26,563 .. . . £101,712
Issued for cash to original mem-
bers ; 67,808 shares at par .. 67,808
£169,520
From this enlarged capital, 60,000 shares
are now being sold to outsiders at a pre-
mium of 6s. 3d. each, plus brokerage.
Directors state that a balance-sheet
drawn up for the co.’s position at Dec.
31, 1946, and adjusted for these subse-
quent developments, would now read;
Paid capital .. £203,424 Freeholds .. £41,509
Reserves .. 4,831 Plant, etc. .. 61,381
Overdraft .. 56,24'9 Stocks ~ 71,885
Creditors .. 6,936 Debtors, cash .. 57,367
Tax provision 38,595 Cash to be re-
ceived for new
shares .:. 67,808
Goodwill .. 10,085
£310,035 £310,035
A table has also been published show-
ing net profits, before taxation, earned
over the last five years ; and the amount
of tax which would have been incurred
if the co. had been public with a capital
of £203,424. These are the figures since
1943:
June SO, 1943. 1944. J 945. 1946.
Profit, subject to
tax .. .. £42,912 £37,291 £25,894 £27,175
Hypothetical tax
payable .. 19,301 15,417 8,944 9,588
Net profit—
Amount .. 23,610 21,874 16,950 17,587
As per cent, of
£203,424 .. 11.6 10.7 8.3 8.6
Earnings for the half-year ended Dec.
31, 1946, have been £25,828 before pro-
viding for tax ; the net figure is estimated
at £12,578. Directors anticipate that a
dividend of 7 p.c. will be paid for the
full year (ending June 30) —yielding 5.2
p.c. to a buyer at 265. 3d. ; the shares
offered rank for dividend from May 1.
A new 30-acre site has been bought at
Ballarat, where it is intended to erect an
improved factory and transfer all plant.
Chairman and managing director, M. W.
B. John, is the son t of the founder, and
has been in the business since its com-
mencement. Fiye other members of the
John family are on the board, and were
recently joined by H. L. Lewis and J. T.
Vinton Smith,
Steps are being taken by Coote and
Jorgenson, Ltd., a Sydney engineering
concern, to raise paid capital from
£60,000 to £300,000. In the first
place, a bonus issue of 40,000 £1
ords. will be made to present ord.
holders in the ratio of one for
one. Capital will then consist of
80.000 ords. and 20,000 7 p.c. prefs., all
of £l. It is then proposed to raisfb a
further £200,000 by issuing 150,000 £1
ords. and 50,000 5 p.c. second prefs.,
both at par. Of this issue, present ord.
holders will have the right to apply for
80.000 ords. and 20,000 prefs.; the general
public will be invited to take up the
remaining 70,000 ords. and 30,000 prefs.
The whole issue has been underwritten
by Sydney broker, Charles H. Smith.
Application dates and terms of subscrip-
tion will be announced later in June. The
co.’s scrip first appeared on the official
list of Sydney Stock Exchange in 1938,
but was withdrawn in 1941 at the request
of the directors, because they themselves
held practically all the shares, both pref.
and ord. Early quotations for the ords.
had been around 215., but the last official
sale in 1941 was at 18s. Earnings for the
three years to mid-1940 averaged £6121
and, after payment of the 7 p.c. to prefs.,
ord. dividend averaged 6.6 p.c. Reserves
were £11,084 at June 30, 1940. For the
three years to June 30, 1946, net profits
are stated to have been £10,894, £10,234
and £8413 respectively, and the ords.
received a steady 10 p.c. The balance-
sheet at the end of that period
showed net tangible assets of 28s. for
each of the 60,000 £1 shares. So far,
the co. has published no details of the
purpose for which the very large expan-
sion of capital is being sought. Further
information may be expected later in
the month. Directors are E. R. Coote,
O. H. Jorgenson, G. C. Colburn and
C. D. Service,
* * * ♦
Adelaide brokers estimate that 95 p.c.
of shareholders in the expiring Adelaide
Electric Supply Co. have chosen to con-
vert their shares to dhe new Electricity
Trust debentures. It follows that over
£7Jf million of new debenture scrip will
appear in July. The Trust has already
applied for quotation of the debentures
on the Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney
Stock Exchanges: and will mark trans-
fers from the day of quotation (expected
to be this month) though the actual
scrip is hot available. The debentures are
guaranteed by the S. Australian Govern-
ment and bear interest of 4 p.c. calculated
from June 2. Half is to be redeemed at
face-value on June 1,1952, and the balance
on June 1, 1957. The debentures will be
a trustee investment in South Australia;
and some appreciation above par values
may be expected when trading begins.
* * * *
Latest development in the theatre busi-
ness in Maoriland is the transfer of His
Majesty’s, Auckland, from His Majesty’s
Arcade and Theatre Co., Ltd., to J. C.
Williamson (N.Z.), Ltd. So ends 44 years
of control by a £50,000 concern, which
for a long time has given J.G.W. (Sydney)
lessee powers. In the palmy days, back
in the ’twenties, dividends of 15 p.c. were
paid, but in the ’thirties slump and land
tax gave the co. such a knock that divs.
to ord. shareholders slumped heavily, and
in recent years have been only 4 p.c. The
capital is in 20,000 pref. and 30,000 ord.
shares. Assets at the end of December
totalled £55,820, including freehold and
leasehold land £29,000 and buildings
£11,208.
* * « *
Maoriland’s top holding co. in the con-
struction industries, Fletcher Holdings,
Ltd., with 10 subsidiaries, made a good
showing for the year ended April 30 by
expanding profits by £3292 to £50,391,
despite bottlenecks. Turnover increased
in every branch of the group. Earnings
showed a margin of £5391 over dividend
requirements of £45,0t)0 on a 6 p.c. (un-
changed) basis. One of the moves
Fletcher’s is most proud of is linseed
oil production, which the co. claims
puts M.L. ahead of every other Empire
country except Canada. Timber-milling,
steel, asbestos fibre and home-building
are other Fletcher offshoots.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Billy Stevens and Lemon-
ade Lewis —who never drank the stuff —
were faced with a 30-odd mile ride from
Barham to Noorong, in the Wakool
c. antry, on a cold winter’s night, so
they fortified themselves heavily with in-
flammable liquors and set forth. Some-
where beyond the Thule turn-off Lemon-
ade somehow got the idea that they
were both drunk and that, in con-
sequence, he was on Billy’s horse. The
amiable Billy didn’t mind changing, but
Lemonade remained doubtful and they
changed mounts thrice in the next mile.
The effect of Billy’s potations was
wearing off and so was his amia-
bility, and when Lemonade wanted
the fifth change he argued about
it. They sat their saddles in the cold
darkness and hurled abuse at each other.
Then Billy saw a light up to their right
and insisted upon making for it. It turned
out to be the hut on Whymoul, where
dwelt Kelly, a man of many parts and
pranks. Kelly gravely listened as each
strove to put his case, got them into the
hut “for a warm,” left them by the fire
while he went outside, unsaddled -their
nags, put the saddles on Dolly, a fat
spring-cart mare, and Sandy, a rangy
chestnut hack, then got them forth and
mounted and watched them ride happily
forth into the night for Noorong. Then
he mounted Billy’s horse and, leading
Lemonade’s, cut through the Storm
country and beat them to Noorong, where
he awoke the boss and hands and primed
them up. It would need a volume to
tell adequately of the hilarious hours that
followed the arrival of the travellers at
that station.
* * * *
“Fang”; From June on till August
Archie gives the rabbit-traps a spell and
concentrates 6n fox-shooting. Not a bad
show, either, when the short season nets
him around the hundred skins. That’s
why I thought it odd when he spoke of
giving this season a miss. “It’s on account
of me an’ Charlie Tollis both doin’ a line
with Spriggs’s daughter,” he said. “We
always had a workin’ agreement f’r him
t’ shoot along the stretch one side o’ the
creek an’ me the other. But this year we
decided that one c’d do all the shootin’
an’ the other have the girl. So we tossed
an’ Charlie won. If Lucy turns me down
I git the shootin’ rights next year.”
* * * * .
“Wippegong”; Nobody who has
known an Indian well is at all surprised
at the tremendously difficult bargaining
with which Mounlbatten is faced. The
hawkers we knew were shrewd men all,
and only fools flattered themselves they
ever bettered the dusky dealers. The
group which worked Gippsland were
Moslems, and the pick of this bunch —
and, incidentally, their priest—was Jellal
DeCn. Short, nimble and clean, he had
a quick wit camouflaged by a twinkling
smile and a soft chuckle. When he was
camped by Naracan Creek a couple of
louts bailed him up. He gave a fine
simulation of terror and flung a heavy
bag of coin far from the waggon. The
amateur Kellies rushed for it and Jellal
let fly over their heads with his breech-
loader, whereupon the intruders streaked
for their car and burnt a track in the
general direction of Melbourne. The sage
from the Punjab calmly finished his
hookah, retired, and in the morning re-
covered his bag of coppers from the long
When on a buying trip he always
stayed in Fitzroy, and there, as he was
strolling along with arms full of groceries,
a “sportsman” grabbed his watch. Jellal
Deen promptly broke a packet of flour
over the thug, who, thus branded, was
smartly caught and given six months in
which to ponder on the supposed
superiority of the white race. Jellal
reached our valley once just as a family
was flitting and leaving numerous des-
pondent creditors. Lesser men would
have asked for cash ; Jellal gave them a
handsome present from his stack and
his best wishes for the future—and got
his cheque in, full. In the Riverina I was
cobbers with a fine old Sikh, and, in
helping him with his accounts, verified
his suspicion that one woman was swind-
ling him for ten bob. “Will you ask her
for it?” I queried. He flashed a lovely
smile at my innocence. “Oh! No! No!”
he said. “I put two shillin’ on this, two
shillin’ on that —I get it all right.” We
send selected students, at great expense,
to try to learn what most Indians from
infancy acquire in the bazaar.
* # * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We were stacking chaff
on the railway ramp at Ganmain and
were up about 12 bags high when dinner-
time came. Mat had his tucker and then
climbed to the top of the stack for a
spell. The boss arrived in his car to see
how we were going, came on to the ramp.
“ Tasty , isn't it?”
saw me and called, “Hey, where’s your
mate?” Next instant Mat, who’d missed
his footing, landed with a thump be-
tween us. The .boss, torn between alarm
and humor, said, “Gripes, didn’t take you
long to get here.” Mat sat up and felt
himself carefully. “No,” he remarked,
“she was downhill all the way, though.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: I agree with
“Salmon Gums” rather than “Notaden”
that lightning-struck trees meet their fate
by reason of their roots leading to under-
ground water (B. 26 /3 / ’47); it doesn’t
always apply, but most times it does.
Around Euston the mid-Murray thunder-
storms are attracted by the river and
billabong water, and it’s generally a
redgum that lightning smacks. Inland,
too, where square leagues of mallee are
relieved only by Dillon bush flats and
box waddies —the latter water-indicators
—it is always the box that’s struck and
not the adjacent mallee. Incidentally,
whilst lightning-struck timber burns well,
it is the hardest wood I know to split.
* * * *
“Betcha”: For some time I’ve seen
it coming. Now, the signs are every-
where. With the shortage of building
material, folks began using bark, shingles,
grass thatch, stone, or whatever happened
around in their locality, while the for-
tunates with houses watch them slowly
disintegrate through the impossibility of
repairs. Further, it is common enough
nowadays to see blokes getting around in
shorts and boots, and women’s apparel,
too, is fast becoming less. With the
uncertainty of transport, the only reliable
means of getting anywhere is to go walk-
about, and every month man grows more
accustomed to eating not what he fancies,
but what is available. The newspapers
show that a chap in E. Gippsland (Vic.)
brought down a wedgetail the other day,
with a bow and arrow; but I don’t see
that he has much on the rest of us, who
since the shortages have developed con-
siderable skill and cunning with different
missiles. The one bright spot in our pros-
pects is the increase in game; and while
I huddle in the shreds of my pre-war coat
waiting to dong a rabbit or spear an eel
for supper, I wonder whether the abos
will do anything for us in a few years’
time.
* * * ♦
“Flight”: We were putting in a new
telephone line on the W.Q. plains. Over
quarter of a mile away the old line was
dismantled, only the posts left standing.
A flock of budgerigars, several thousand
strong, came hurtling along, their flight
at right-angles to the wires. When they
reached the place where the old line had
been they rose as one bird, jumped the
imaginary hurdle, then settled down to
their normal flying height. Then, despite
the fact that the new wires glistened in
the sun, the mob smashed into it, leaving
dozens of crippled victims screeching on
the ground.
* * * *
“Korero”: Wandering along the fore-
shores of Evening Bay, just north of Port
Jackson, I came on a gibber-gunyah at
the foot of Dark Gully. Near by, beneath
a layer of damp silt and leafage, I found
a pile of old shells, evidence that it had
been once a squatting-place of the gap-
toothed Dharruk blacks. Looking out
across the wide stretch of water that lay
between me and Long Nose, I realised
that probably I had stumbled across the
cave to which, on March 3, 1788, an old
black had taken Governor Phillip and his
little party of explorers to shelter from
heavy rain. In that setting it was easy
to picture that long-past scene: the two
longboats out in the bay, a curtain of
heavy rain obscuring the far shore ; the
old black and his women (“one of them
very lively and cheerful”) watching the
white men with wonder and, no doubt, a
little awe. Not enough awe, however, to
prevent old Binghi from trying to
souvenir a spade! Luckily for future
relations with the Dharruks, when the
theft was noticed Phillip faced the men-
ace of old Binghi’s upraised spear calmly
and without flinching or ordering his men
to use their arms. And, as one gap-
toothed man faced the other —Phillip also
had an incisor missing the old black
lowered his spear. Had he done other-
wise, the shedding of blood might have
marked the first official naming of any
place in Australia —Pittwater ! It would
be interesting to know whether and how
much His Excellency’s lack of a front
tooth influenced the gap-toothed Dharruks
in their friendly attitude towards him,
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Although it no longer
reads like a miracle, there is still some-
thing fascinating in the report that a
surgeon, on noticing that the heart of a
patient under anaesthetic had ceased to
beat, massaged -nthe organ, thus virtually
restoring life to a person who was tech-
nically dead. It appears to be generally
accepted that a person is dead if his heart
stops beating for more than a limited
number of seconds; by the same token
the heart should cease to function im-
mediately death occurs. But does it? I
once broke a bunny’s neck, gutted him
and was amazed to see something pulsing
in the entrails as the dog nuzzled them.
The rodent’s heart still throbbed as I held
it on my palm. If anybody doubts my
veracity there are plenty of rabbits. Then
let him catch a yellow-tail (I’ve never
been able to catch a bigger fish), disem-
bowel it and take the diminutive heart in
his hand. If the organ doesn’t continue
to pulse I’ll cheerfully accept the pen-
bashing 1 should certainly receive.
* * * *
“Hanko”: We’d got the mob of
weaners across the river when the boss
drover came out from Deniliquin with a
bandy-legged bloke perched in the cart.
“Here’s our cook ” said the trump, jerk-
ing his thumb at Bandy. The new cook
glanced at me, took a long look at Lofty
and then climbed out of the cart. He
was back over*the bridge almost as soon
as was the boy with the piloting wether.
The boss and I stared at Lofty for an
explanation, but we were well into the
Old Man plain before it came. “He plays
the bagpipes,” said Lofty. “Gripes,” said
the boss, “that would’ve been all fright
out here on this blasted plain.” “I
thought so, too, on a trip to Booligal,”
said Lofty. “But I finished up
his bag with me skinnin’ knife.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I agree that “any
bushman who is a bushman knows the
four main compass points day or night.”
But I’m amazed at the number of bushmen
who aren’t bushmen. Recently struck a
Chap whose faith in the Southern Cross as
a direction-finder was shattered by the
illuminating discovery that it changed its
position as the night advanced ; and I’ve
since found his disillusionment shared in
unexpected quarters. Of course the Cross
moves. It circles the south pole—roughly
—its tip always pointing to the inside of
the circle it describes. Take a line along
its longest axis, prolong it four and a
half times the length of that axis from
the “tail,” and a line dropped perpen-
dicularly from the point arrived at will
give you due south. To get the point
fairly accurately, divide a stick into 11
equal sections, hold it and sight so that
the tip is at the head of the cross and
the second notch is at the tail star. Then
the other end of the stick, or eleventh
notch, corresponds to the point directly
above south. In daylight, given a watch
and a view of the sun, it’s even simpler.
Hold the watch so that a line drawn
from the centre to 12 o’clock points to
the sun. Then a line bisecting the angle
between 12 o’clock and the hour hand
points due north. This applies only to
the southern hemisphere. And make sure
your watch is giving correct time.
* * * *
“Bufo”: “Spinifex” (B. 14/5/’47) errs
in saying that the classification of
poisonous snakes as viperine and colu-
brine is based on the shape of their fangs
relatively to depth of injection. The
terms really apply to the respective types
of poison which they secrete. Viperine
poison acts mainly on the nervous system,
causing paralysis and death by respiratory
failure. It has little action on blood cells
or vessels and does not bring about coagu-
lation. Colubrine poisons mostly coagu-
late the blood, although they may also
have some nerve-poisoning effect as well,
particularly in the case of the copper-
head {Denisonia superbd). Weight for
weight the most deadly of all Australian
snake venoms is that of the tiger snake.
It is several times more potent than that
of the death-adder, itself considerably
more deadly than Indian cobra venom.
“S.’s” A.M.C. corporal followed well-
known methods in using a hypodermic
syringe to withdraw blood from the bite-
site, but he should first have used it to
pump in permanganate of potash solu-
tion to neutralise the venom and followed
up with a second shot.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: That strident - voiced
bird the peewee being habitually more
vociferous immediately after rain, I took
little of the piercing cries that
seemed to be following me. Suddenly
the excited whistlings became almost
shrieks, there was a flutter overhead, and
two of the birds hovered in front of me,
fighting viciously. For two or three
seconds the battle was an aerial one, then
both dropped to the ground, rolling and
tossing in a melee of black and white.
Abruptly the fight stopped—so abruptly I
thought the bird in the underneath posi-
tion was dead. For a space neither
moved, one bird lying on its back, wings
outspread, looking like a pinned wrestler,
the other, with cruel claws dug deeply into
the breast of the defeated, poised as
though awaiting a movement before
delivering the death-thrust. Four more
peewees shrieked and swooped overhead,
but whether they were signalling “thumbs
down” or trying to distract the attention
of the top-dog wasn’t clear. Until I was
within a yard of them the two held the
little tableau; then with a sudden flurry
of wings they were in the air again, the
position little changed—one shooting
through the air like a racing pigeon, the
other repeatedly diving into its back.
Above, the four spectators whistled en-
couragement — or reproach until, the
scrub hiding them from sight, I was left
to wonder whether I’d been witnessing a
domestic quarrel, a duel of suitors, or
the execution of Nature’s law; destruction
of the unfit
THE BOUNDARY HUT,
I know a boundary-noer s hut
Oh, many years away,
Where, after gorge and creek and rut
I’d passed, 1 used to stay.
The hut was by a wire fence
That ran into the sky;
And to the left, in timber dense,
Oft came the eagle’s cry.
Within the hut —I see it still —■
A! box hung on the wall
From out of which I ate my fill
Of breadcrusts —dirt and all;
There was a bunk, too, by the door
Where the boundary-rider slept
(Ah, what could dreaming boy want more?)
And on to which I crept.
Upon it I would sit or lie,
There in that lonely hut,
And through the doorway watch the sky
And let my fancy strut
And build within that quietness
The sweetest dreams I had:
The dreams that sometimes come to bless
A simple country lad.
And I had spurs and leggings on
And horse as fine and grand
As e’er the sunlight looked upon,
The finest in the land.
I rode the fences wide and far,
’Cross hill and slope and plain,
Beneath the moon and twinkling star,
And then rode back again.
And as I rode the old grey posts,
Like soldiers, marched with me;
Marched on, it seemed, in long grey hosts
As far as eye could see.
Tramp, tramp they marched close by my side,
Taking no track or cut,
As I rode dreams, with boyish pride,
Inside that boundary hut.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACLSTON.


“ Don't go in, Joe — there's a bad undertow this morning!"
“Nagheer”: Stories about full-flavored
Australian language emanating mysteri-
ously from seemingly uninhabited wild
bush country are causing old northerners
to wonder hopefully whether “Simmy’s
parrot” may not still survive. A corella,
owned from fledgling days by Albert
Simpson, chief engineer of the Brisbane-
Gulf coaster Wandana, the bird was for
17 years a member of the ship’s company,
noted for its unusual powers of
mimicry and objurgation. Its star turn
was a lifelike imitation, though on a larger
and richer scale, of a seasick passenger,
omitting no detail of retching, hiccups,
groans or interspersed language. But
Simmy’s pet fell a victim at, last to
its own artistry. Perched in the shrouds
above a passenger performing over the
side during bad weather off Portland
Roads and triumphantly outdoing all his
vocal efforts, voluntary and otherwise, it
was swept out to leeward by a sudden
squall, to be seen no more.
* * * tt
“Nor’-west”: Although the West Kim-
berley (W.A.) has little to show of the
mountain magnificent, its ranges being
mostly the remnants of what was once a
high tableland of sedimentary rock, now
eroded into cliff-faced ridges and wide
valleys, it presents some of the roughest
travelling in the world. The hills, ex-
cept by rare passes, are untraversable
even to the pack animal, so the traveller
breaking through little-known country
keeps as much as possible to the valleys.
Many of these are vast in floor extent,
but others are narrow, with tall grass
concealing shattered pancakes of sand-
stone as abrasive as a grindstone. And
here the horsetailer notes the respective
merits of the horse and its hybrid relative
the mule. Over Kimberley country, even
at its best, the horse can’t stand up to
continued long journeys, and in extra
bad spots is apt to injure itself by
frantic plunging. On the other
hand ths mule not only displays
considerable intelligence in picking out
the easiest way but even when by mis-
chance it happens to get a bit pickled will
keep calm and finally pick a way out.
Thus it will do three times as much work
as a horse and finish the day in much
better condition. The wise traveller lets
his mules take the lead, which position
they take over from the horses naturally.
The mules, however, have a queer affec-
tion for the horses —like to camp in their
company and show a fractious disposition
if denied the privilege.
* * * *
“Greenhide Bob”: “Shrewdest horse I
ever had,” said Monkeystrap, “was a bay
that used t’ disappear, clean as a whistle,
with no tracks and no noise; and it was
maddenin’ on a frosty mornin’ searchin’
the dead finish an’ waitawhile bushes.
Sure enough y’d find him when it got a
bit warmer, sunnin’ himself inside one o’
them circles o’ dead finish that are like
a round horse-yard fence. We sat up
an’ watched one night. We saw him
break off a branch o’ sandalwood with
his teeth an’, walkin’ backwards, drag
it on the ground to wipe out his tracks! ”
* * * *
“Terrapirma”; The method by which
the great stone heads on Easter Island
(B. 21/5/’47) were placed in position is
no mystery; they were carved from soft
tufa obtained jfrom the crater of an
extinct volcano. In this quarry there are
still incomplete heads, one a giant of
60ft, Apparently the face was carved
first, then the front and sides. The back
was shaped and smoothed when the mass
was finally undercut from the rock and
erected in its resting place. Although
the rock is comparatively light, the larger
images weighed over 20 tons, but as they
were hauled down the slope and not up,
the effort required * was not beyond a
small team of lusty men, using wooden
rollers. Also, these larger images were
all erected just below the crater, and
though considerable numbers of them
were hauled to various parts of the island,
especially along the old roads, their
weight diminishes with the distance
covered. Those placed near the shore,
having some significance concerned with
burial, were imposing things 15ft. high
but weighing only three or four tons.
Only their original significance and place
in the local culture remain unexplained.
Like so many native peoples who. felt the
impact of western civilisation, the history
and native lore died with the king, his
son and most of the learned men when
they were carted off by Peruvian traders
in 1862, to finish their days digging
guano.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: The new hand had just got back
from the township with the new Win-
chester he’d bought and was showing it
to Carter when a rabbit popped out
from near the woodheap and made a
break for a clump of bracken behind
the house. The hand, all of a dither,
slammed a bullet in the breech and,
waving the rifle around wildly, fired.
Mum happened to be going past with an
armful of firewood from the heap, and a
stick of wood flew, out of her arms, the
bullet ricocheting off and tearing through
the 800-gallon tank a rung or two from
the top. At the crash against the iron
Carter looked disgustedly at his employee.
“Y’ blinded idiot! ” he said, “Look where
y’ aimin’ next time. If that’d hit the
bottom o’ the tank we’d have had to
cart the blasted house water up from the
crick! ”
* * * *
“Niloc”: When Blue’s champion grey-
hound bitch produced her first litter,
there occurred two pups so like one
another that even, Blue found it hard to
tell them apart. One became a Stakes
winner; distemper delayed the other’s
track career till Blue entered it for a
“Maiden,” at the same time setting its
champion brother for the Stakes. Word
went round the town that he was plotting
the perfect ring-in, and as starting time
for the Maiden drew near
approached Blue. They told ’film they
had heard all about it, and ordered him
to switch his saddle-cloths. Blue’s pro-
tests were useless, and the champ, won
its “Maiden” by half the length of the
course. Worried now, the stewards
ordered Blue to enter the dog again in its
rightful evept. To compromise, he offered
to nominate the unknown brother; and
to this the stewards agreed. At 100 to
1 with a mere 2s. of Blue’s aboard, the
second hound won its first race, the Stakes,
in a canter.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Like “G’snatcher” (B.
7/5/’47) I have played tricks on the
predatory wasp returning to its nest with
its prey. However, I suggest that the
insect’s repeated inspections of its nest
are due not to a lack of intelligence but
to a lack of a time sense. Because of
some tribal memory it evidently expects
an enemy to be waiting at its nest, hence
the preliminary inspection prior to de-
positing of its prey and the laying of its
egg. But it is obviously unable to realise
the very short lapse of time due to “G.'s”
mischievous interruption. The idea that
lower creatures react purely by instinct,
and that intelligence is something purely
the prerogative of man, is a relic of the
time when that biped imagined that the
whole of the universe had been created
solely for his benefit. The evolutionist
surveying the slow growth of intelligence
from the amoeba to a Darwin perceives
no difference in kind, but only in degree.
» * * *
“Bray Rock”: Freshwater catfish are
certainly not attractive-looking, but not-
withstanding widespread popular preju-
dice against their looks they are excellent
tucker when properly prepared. A four-
pounder, skinned, boneless, filleted down
each side, and grilled, boiled or fried to
taste, will provide a most appetising meal
for a few people. They occur throughout
the Murray River system from Queens-
land to South Australia, also in some
Westralian rivers, and can be bred in
dams for home supply with very little
trouble. They are easily taken by spear-
ing or netting at early morning or even-
ing, the erect back fin showing their
whereabouts. Catfish require careful
handling on account of the sharp spines
in their back and side fins, but the yarn
about their having poison glands is a
myth. A quaint family feature is that it
is daddy catfish who hatches the eggs and
looks after the youngsters while mum
gads about and enjoys herself after the
very brief honeymoon is over. Several
species of sea-catfish are also good eat-
ing and some grow to 401 b. or more.
As with their freshwater relatives, poor
daddy carries the family burden round,
anything up to 26 youngsters cradled
in his capacious mouth at once,
* * * *
“Khasi Rokok”: I spent a lot of time
observing flying fish closely from the
bows of the Bungaree, through the Barrier
Reef, the Coral Sea and up to the Ad-
“Don't take me hat of —I gotta cold!"
miralties. As the cut-water comes up to
the fish it starts to panic, gathers speed in
three or four zigzag*, and leaves the
water with all fins flapping vigorously and
quite audibly. However, it steadies into
a glide immediately it clears the water,
and from then on there is no discernible
movement whatever of the fins. When
coming down it makes sure the tail
touches first, by bending it down ; the tail
threshes vigorously, the rest of the fish
still being air-borne, and the flight is
continued. It ends with a sudden plop,
after perhaps two or three tail-refreshers,
perhaps none. It is easy for the finny
flier to do a 90 'degree change of course.
The fish may be helped by air currents
over choppy water; but it flies just as
easily and as far over a glassy, flat, un-
ruffled surface. The half-grown ones seem
to do somewhat longer flights still; com-
paratively, they present a larger spread of
canvas, front and rear fins almost touch- 1
ing. The adults are much slenderer, with
the lines of a Spitfire, Babies not much
bigger than bees take readily to the air.
Another mystery in propulsion was the
porpoises, seen from the same viewpoint.
They would pack in tiers around our stem
and do a steady 10 knots, apparently,
without moving a muscle; however,
every time they wanted to blow they
would give two or three bucks to gather
speed. If they jumped extra high they
were always careful to land on their
sides. Watching them playing chasings,
nipping each others’ holding “hands,”
swimming upside down and showing off
generally, one could never think of them
as fish, but rather as dogs of the sea.
* * * *
“Chuck”: “Hear shearers ain’t gonna'
work no more on Sat’d’y mornin’s,” re-
marked Dad Martin. “No?” Robbie
digested the news for a few minutes. (
“Shearin’ll take longer then, that’s all,”
he decided. “Not quite,” replied Martin.
“Y’ got t’ pay ’em for it, just the same.”
“Aw, don’ be mad, Dad,” came Robbie’s j
protest. “It ain’t a weekly wage. They
git paid be what they do.” “Don’t
matter. Y’ got t’ average it out,” ex-
plained Martin, “an’ pay ’em f’r what y’
reckon they don’t do on Sat’d’ys. Well,
that’s what they tell me. An’ their wages
will most likely be goin’ up again, too.”
The following week Dad Martin ran
into Robbie driving his mob of hairy l
crossbreds towards the saleyards.
“Gripes, y’ goin’ out o’ sheep?” he ex-
claimed. “It ain’t that,” scowled the
small sheepman. “I got t’ buy fine-
w’oolled jummies in their place.” “But
I thought that strong-woolled stock suited
your place better,” puzzled Martin, “Y’
alwus said y’ wouldn’t have merinos.”
“Yair, I know. But, don’t y’ see, a bloke
will have t’ go in f’r better-priced wool,”
Robbie pointed out, “or he’ll never get
enough money t’ pay his shearers.”
* * * *
“Flathead”: Succulent and plentiful
along our coasts are the big colored
leatherjacket. Beside the ecstatic things
which they can do to one’s palate, they
are noted for the resounding squarks
given while being separated from a line.
If science is correct about the sound-
carrying capabilities of water —15 times
louder and further than air—the fish with
the sandpaper clobber would be among
the worst of undersea ear-bashers. Ac-
cording to recent data on piscatorial
noises, most fish carry on such a hulla-
baloo down below that their various
voices had to be analysed when science
began serious work on underwater sub-
marine detectors. During the experiments
it was found that some fishes’ voices break
at a certain age as young men’s do, and
that they mumble thereafter on a lower
key, Other finneys, like the maligned
“bastard” trout, remain sopranos through-
out. The undersea party warms up con-
siderably at feeding-time, when the
different noises resemble a bar at five to
six. The row is attributed to “grinding of
the pharyngeal teeth,” and at close
quarters is “louder than the loudest city
traffic,” Any bites?
THE PHOTOGRAPH.
Said Quinn to me one morning—
Twas in the Bearded Age—
“ Though this young land is scorning
Its writers, I’ll engage
Some day they’ll be adorning
A proud historic page.
Ere Time brings home the bacon
I think that we should go
And have our photos, taken —
Three poets in a row;
It later would awaken
Kind memories, I know.”
Without prolonged digestion
Or wordy argument
To Roderic’s suggestion
I freely gave assent.
And then arose the question
Of where one sitter went.
He’d made a short appearance
But left our rendezvous
To get, he said, a clearance
Of work he had to do—
Expect his reappearance,
Within an hour or two.
With counter-lunch and flagon
We dallied till, alack!
Convinced a fiery dragon
Was holding Lawson back
Or else a tram or wagon
Had crossed the poet’s track ...
Next week, in sunny weather,
On that same mission bound
My good mates went together
And vainly sought around
A bird of kindred'feather
Who nowhere could be found!
Next month again on Harry
I chanced in Pfahlert’s Inn
And —lest the plan miscarry,
That photograph to win—
We swore we would not tarry
But go at once for Quinn.
Like eager miners dishing
The wash dirt, forth went we,
At each turnover wishing
His golden head to see;
But Quinn had gone a-fishing
For starlight in the sea.
From this Bohemian ditty
Expect no moral, pray!
I left that Harbor City
One blue September day,
And Lawson—more’s the pity!—
To London sailed away.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


w
ŵ
MANUFACTURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY
IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 DIXON STREET. SYDNEY
MA 7858
Mall this coupon to Maximum Spray
Irrigation Co., or to any of the agents
listed. Learn more about "Maximum"
... how it can help you!
Name
Address
B 2
DtvnogaS
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyartogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
.
Safe in his hands...
AML & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the’ technique of flu A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged. that they'll bring forth from the buyers eve y
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con-
fidently at A.M.L. & F. sales.
Gel in touch now with
Australian# Wlercantile, Land & Finance
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, tB6S.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
-t.,, w—rastle. Wagga. Moree. Henty and Hay.
————■*— — l — l - I——ah.22
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS"
Beff in the Tropics.
“Agric”: Writing to “Queensland
Country Life” from Cambridge Univer-
sity (Eng.), Neil Yeates suggests that
changes in the pituitary gland may be
the reason why British breeds of cattle
tend to become “leggy” under the tropical
environment of North Queensland. Views
that “legginess” was a purposeful adapta-
tion, enabling a beast to range over a
wider tract .of country, or that loss of
the “chunky” trait was an adaptation to
withstand extreme heat confused cause
and effect, and in any case it was an open
question whether short legs were not at
least the equals of long legs for purposes
of locomotion. The fact was that in the
tropical environment superior beef cattle
of British breeds failed to leave their
mark on succeeding generations. There
was a falling away in constitution and a
reversion to the “scrubber” type, char-
acterised by long legs, general rangy
appearance and harsh coat.
Yeates thinks that the most immediate
good would probably arise from an in-
tensive programme of selection for most
suitable types from among herds already
grazing in tropical areas. Such work,
would have to proceed hand in hand with
experimental research, but unfortunately
present knowledge was such that ■ selec-
tion could not be done with precision or
real hope of success. Until the physiology
of heat regulation and certain other fun-
damental principles were understood it
could not be clear which were the char-
acters most required.
The onset of puberty in animals coin-
cided with cessation of growth in the long
bones, and if there was delay in reaching
sexual maturity it was quite conceivable
that it would result in an inferior beef
conformation. In the matter of securing
for the tropics a stable system of animal
production there were fruitful fields for
scientific research and field studies, and
any effort would be well repaid.
Cattlemen in the Gulf country com-
plain of the losses they sustain among
bulls purchased in southern districts
and travelled long distances, after which
they have to live under much harder
conditions than before. They are
hoping to get the Minister for Agriculture
to consider improving the quality of
Gulf cattle by subsidising a bull-breeding
station in the Gulf in conjunction with the
C.S.I.R. ■
Dipping Losses.
“Graz”: Arsenic absorbed through the
skin sometimes causes death of sheep
after dipping. C.S.I.R. investigations
show that sheep immersed in normal-
strength dips, 0.2 .p.c. arsenic solution.
absorb between 63 and 88 milligrams of
arsenic without ill effect. In the test the
heads were not dipped—to prevent any of
the fluid being swallowed ; arsenic was
found in the blood, saliva, fasces and
urine, the arsenic content of the bladder
taking 14 days to return' to normal.
If so much arsenic is absorbed when
dipping under ideal conditions, how
much greater would it be when heated
animals with skin pores wide open are
pushed into the bath? When this hap-
pens and is followed by a sudden cold
wind or shower to close the skin pores
on the absorbed poison, losses occur. In
the test the C.S.I.R. did not use heated
sheep.
Downs Soil.
“Herbert”: With considerably less than
one-fourth of the total number of dairy
cows in the State, the Darling Downs
produced nearly half of all the milk in
Queensland during the 1945-46 statistical
period. The fertility of the Darling
“Now look what you've done!"
Downs is evident from this, but unless
soil erosion is stopped the Downs is go-
ing to slip. Gully and sheet erosion is
yearly taking toll of the undulating
country. Of approximately 800,000 acres
of cultivable land on the Darling
Downs about 700,000 acres, including
over 400,000 acres of wheat land, are
cropped annually - more than 40 p.c.
of the cropped acreage of the State.
It is expected that over half a
million acres will be sown with wheat
this season, nearly 100,000 acres more
than in the record acreage year, 1938-39.
Manpower shortage affected wheat plant-
ing in the war years, the acreage sown
dropping to 281,000 acres in 1943-44.
Reports of increasing erosion brought
the Bureau of Investigation, set up under
the Land and Water Resources Act,
along to survey the Downs, and alarming
damage was catalogued. It was found
that deep gullies, some more than 55ft
wide and 10ft. deep, scarred most sloping
farm lands, with sheet erosion evident
after every storm rain. The Bureau cal-
culates that approximately 1,600,000
acres of undulating agricultural land on
the Downs is subject to erosion to some
degree, and that a minimum of 40,000
acres of formerly highly fertile land has
become useless for further cultivation.
In four years, in one place, 200 acres
of farmland was rendered useless.
Inspecting after heavy rain in the Free-
stone (Warwick district) wheatbelt, the
Bureau found that “about 80 p.c. of the
topsoil to a depth of three inches was
washed away from one field of 40 acres.”
This loss is the equivalent of 300 cubic
yards per acre, or 12,000 tons of topsoil.
Unfortunately this great loss in such a
short period is not appreciated by the
casual observer as several subsequent
ploughings leave little evidence to attract
attention. It is only because of the high
fertility of the Darling Downs that serious
repercussions have not been felt before
this. What occurred in the Freestone
sector has occurred elsewhere. Erosion
from farms has filled up watercourses on
a wholesale scale.
It’s the old story of careless land use.
Darling Downs farmers know their
slopes and the erosive nature of
their soil, yet they bare fallow in
the storm season, burn off every
vestige of stubble, and hasten erosion by
intense shallow cultivation, which does
not give the farm a chance to absorb
heavy rainfall. Too many of them reach
for the axe if there are a few trees near
the wheat paddock ; scores of farms are
minus a tree save a few struggling pep-
perinas around the house. Few see the
wisdom of sowing a strip of lucerne to
provide a belt of stubble on cultivated
slopes and, worst of all, when erosion
begins they let it rip. Shire Councils
don’t help as much as they could and
show little foresight when road-making ;
they turn water off the roadsides wherever
there is a shallow dip without thought of
ŵ


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO.. Box 4109, Q.P.0.. Sydney.
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
' REQUIRE EMPTYING.
— WARNING!—
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
i _
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1937.
DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Austialiat R. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
TIM>
RELIEF FROM Jl
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, Illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph ivntchell - I*. T. VV. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Lee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET* SYDNEY
PHONE:' BU 5901.
Box 543 G.P.0.. Sydney.
BP *M.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
Blue Gillettes'
sharper titan
a surgeon *s
scalpel
The sharpest edges known to science, electrically tempered to glass-
cutting hardness. Built on sturdy supporting shoulders for extra strength
and longer life. Every blade anchored in its wrapper, to ensure that
the keen cutting edges reach you untouched and undamaged. Only
Gillette, constantly seeking better methods,
can give you such perfection and shave
you so quickly and cleanly.
1
m
%
<
C"
<
gh
23
*Gnod Mlarnings 9
begin with Gillette
PACKET OF 10... 2/11
PACKET OF 5... 1/5*
,34/837
w
little more zinc than the acid can dis-
solve should always be added. The flux
will be all the better if it is allowed to
stand overnight before being poured into "
glass or earthenware jars. The lead re-
leased by the dissolving of the zinc will
have sunk to the bottom as sediment by
that time and the flux should be fairly
clear.
“Wottle Y’av”: If no wood-rasp is
available a hacksaw blade makes an ex-
cellent substitute. Fix article to be re-
duced securely, take hold of blade at
each end, teeth towards you, and with it
almost flat on the wood, exercise a slant-
ing backwards and forwards movement
—pulling at the same time. The blade
may also be used in the frame, holding
the latter at both ends and working in the
same way.
“H.G.G.”: Should the farm not run
to an anvil a wagon axle is next best.
Secured on a couple of blocks at the re-
quired height, or in two stout forks,
nothing better is needed. There is the
flat surface behind the collar, the round
tapered arm in lieu of horn, with the
lynch-pin hole at end for use when re-
quired.
“W. Court”: When the kerosene lamp
burner becomes dogged with carbon,
remove the wick and boil the burner in
water well seasoned with soda for a few
minutes. Every particle of carbon is re-
moved and the burner is as good as new
for the time being. Repeat the treatment
once a month.


frrm..
OUTSIDE —a drizzling cold winter's
night.
INSIDE —a snug and warm home with a
minimum use of fuel.
Home Insulation with 8.1. Slagwool is simple and inexpensive, helps to
keep the cold out and warmth in. You will use 33 / a less fuel if your home
is insulated with 8.1. Slagwool. Slagwool is a real investment.
SlagwooPfn ’granulated form over ceilings prevents heat leakage,
eliminates condensation and drip-stained ceilings.
WALLS ... . .. |
Slagwool in batts, or loose, is easy to install during construction. In
granulated form may be poured into side walls if house is already built.
SLAGWOOL Is fireproof, reduces sound transmission, keeps homes warm in
winter, cool in summer.
Surveys and estimates made without obligation
'nsulation
PTY.
LTD.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM, Shell House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T. ,F. HANTKE, 294 Murnay St., Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER, DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin.
. djjfe.
COMMONWEALTH
AGRICULTURAL
RE-ESTABLISHMENT
LOANS
ALLOWANCES
FOR EX-SERVICEMEN
Now available to eligible discharged mem-
bers of the Forces engaged or intending to
engage in agricultural occupations.
APPLICATION FORMS AND
FULL PARTICULARS ARE OBTAINABLE
FROM THE HEAD OFFICE
AND BRANCHES OF THE
FOLLOWING AUTHORITIES;
•
Queensland:
Authority for Loans
THE AGRICULTURAL BANK
OF QUEENSLAND
Authority for Allowances
DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE AND STOCK
New South Wales;
THE RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
•
Victoria;
THE SOLDIER SETTLEMENT
COMMISSION
South Australia:
THE STATE BANK
OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
•
Western Australia;
THE RURAL AND
INDUSTRIES BANK
OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA
•
Tasmania:
THE AGRICULTURAL BANK
OF TASMANIA
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKbOIH $
o'satiiiiVAN
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
c/Vlote ikatt
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s *
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
In
Phone BW 1361 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
of Ted. “Where’s that fellow got to?” he
said, grumbling. “ I don’t know what he
does all Saturdays. Gets down in that
Settlers’ Club. Well, I don’t mind a spot
or two myself, but”
When the car at last drew up beyond
the privet hedge, the old man had worked
himself into a cranky frame of mind. But
Ted, flushed and hearty, disarmed him.
He clapped his father-in-law on the back,
called him Dad, asked cheerily, “Well,
have you made up your mind yet, Dad?
Are you coming to stay with us on the
block?”
Bella tried tactfully to sidetrack him,
but the old man hardened his jaw. “I’m
staying by the river,” he said.
“Well, please yourself. If you want to
knock yourself up, that’s all right with
me. We’d give you something better’n
stoking boilers.” Become aware at last
of the old man’s flintiness, he went on,
pacifically, “Of course, it’s a fair job
you’re doing. Dad. Don’t know where
we’d be without you. I was saying only
this afternoon, that pumping station of
yours . . . well, it’s been the making of
this town. Remember what the country
was before irrigation came? Sandhills
and mallee scrub, desert almost . . .”
“The river was alive.”
“A string of barges and steamers.
What’s that?” He sat down, took the boy
on his knee, ruffling his sandy hair. “Re-
minds me, Dad. Met a cove you might’ve
known down the Club. Just passing
through. Morgan or somewhere he comes
from. Name of Fawcett.”
“Captain Fawcett?” the old man asked,
with new eagerness.
“That’s him. Captain Hugh Fawcett.
Know him?”
“Do I know hihi! Wasn’t he the man
that took the old Charles Sturt 13 miles
across country in the ’94 flood! One of
the great feats of the river, son. He had
stores and provisions they wanted bad at
Eucla station. So he steams across pad-
docks and over fences, all flooded, mind
you . . . and when he tries to come back,
he gets bushed.”
The old man threw his head back,
laughed with huge enjoyment. His
wrinkled face opened out; color darkened
his sallow flesh.
“He said something about that,” Ted
said without interest. “Over a pot of
beer. There’s a real identity for you,
Know what he’s up here for?
This’ll do your heart good, Dad, He’s
planning to put one of the steamers back
on the river. Run passengers up and
down, kind of weekly tourist show.”
“He’s going to do that?” said the old
man, hushed.
“Why not? If Seligson can”
“Seligson! We don’t want no more
showboats.” Then, brightening, he added,
“What I know of Fawcett . . . he’s a real
River Man. I tell you, the river’s not
dead yet. There’s a few of us alive, we’ll
get things going again. One day”
THEY went out to the street, Captain
Hyde jigging young Robbie along in
his arms. He put him down at the gate,
returned for his bicycle.
“Can we give you a lift. Dad?”
“I’m right,” he said, bending to slip
on his bicycle-clips over oil-stained work-
ing trousers,
Ted, sitting expansively at the wheel,
returned to the subject which had, so
unexpectedly, bridged the gap between
them. “I’ll be seeing Fawcett again,
Dad. Any message for him?”
The old man flashed him a jealous
look. “I’ll see him myself, thank you.”
“Well, just as you like.”
Bella, touching her father’s arm, slipped
in quickly, “You want to get together.
Dad. Do you good to have a real yarn
If he really gets something going”
“But where’s he to get the steamer?”
Hyde leaned wearily over his handlebars,
feeling his heart flutter against the cage
of his ribs. “They’re gone, broken up . . .
They destroyed them all. You can’t wake
the river up that easy.”
“It’ll come good again sometime,” she
said, trying to raise an enthusiasm that
might comfort him.
The aged, gaunt look had smothered his
face again. His mouth had gone loose,
and she saw with sudden clarity the real
depths of his exhaustion.
“It’ll come good,” he said, drawing the
threads of his spirit together. “One day it
will. It must. Not yet. Not in our time,
maybe. Not in your time, nor even the
boy’s here. But I’ve seen it, Bella . .
seen the river alive with traffic, and the
barges swinging, and the paddle-wheels
churning up the old brown water round
the bends. One day, when the whole
valley’s settled . . . that’s when you’ll see
the river come into its own. It’ll be a
great arterial highway, and all the side-
roads running off it . . . the Darling, the
’Bidgee, the Edward . . , You’ll never gel
railheads up to every creek, nor trucks.”
With a dogged insistence he added, “Nor
even planes.”
“Well, I hope you’re right,” Ted said,
rather bored. “See you next week, Dad.”
He pressed his foot on the starter.
Drifting across on the still air came a
hoarse whistle, briefly. The old man
turned to look up-river. There she was
again, the Rose Everard, churning up the
still brilliance of the water beyond the
bridge. He could see the flutter of
bright dresses on the forward deck;
figures kept moving in and out of the
saloon, where, ultimate horror, young
larrikins would no doubt be jigging to
saxophones. Well, let Seligson have his
day. Soon his might not be the only boat
upon the river.
He said good-bye absently to Bella and
young Robbie, who leaned out of the car
to put soft arms around his neck., Then
they accelerated away in a cloud of dust.
Captain Hyde pushed his bicycle along,
one foot on the pedal, hoisting his other
leg stiffly over the bar. The bicycle
wobbled, lurched into a rut, righted itself,
and he began to pedal laboriously along
towards the pumping station.
The Rose Everard had passed under the
bridge now, on the last lap of its brief
pleasure trip. He could hear the panting
of the engines, the rustle of water beneath
slow paddlewheels. Then he saw a little
puff of steam rise up, detaching itself
from the thin funnel. The hoarse whistle
floated across to him on the still air.
It seemed to hold a note of defiance,
aloof and mocking.
He pedalled laboriously on.


■ nt S,ir* *'* t 1 "”'
*
m
r
m
s
m
<x
%
m
i Jig
MOTOR SPIRIT
a quality product of the
NEPTUNE OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN N.S. W.)
Marketers of Quality Petroleum Products throughout Australia since
AUSTRALIA
NCEv
*9 0^
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Wanted for cash, discarded babies or chil-
dren’s clothes, in good condition.”
—Suburban paper.
A good chance to get rid of those
darned kids.
*b *b *b *b
“At a Sydney factory skilled workers were
making new shoes look old.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.’'’
“Cold Shower at that sage was six lengths
behind the leaders, and he raced around the
home turn still in the middle of the track.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
However, being a seasoned performer,
he hit the front in thyme to land a mint
of money for his connections.
4* 4* 4*
“Your eyelashes are wet with a special
solution, and each (false) eyelash attached in-
dividually.”—Sydney “D.T
“For sale, overcoat, fit girl 12-13 years, also
football boots.”— "Daily,” Mosman (N.S.W.)
An outdoor lass should get quite a
kick out of these.
Bathing suits have developed a new sophis-
tication with elastic.” — Woman’s paper.
Requiring no stretching of the imagin-
ation.
4* 4* 4*
“Columbia is looking for a troupe of photo-
genic moths.” — Film guff.
Surely they can get some social butter-
flies who aren’t snobs and use them as
stand-ins.
4* ■s"
Gone.
“Jack On pleaded guilty at Central Court
to stealing 10 chaff-bags valued at ss. On
was well dressed, showed no signs of the moral
disrepair mentioned by the police.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
With stolen chaff-bags off went On ;
He thought that looking like a toff
Would lull suspicion, but a John
With eagle eye was “on” to On,
And ere he knew it On went off.
Cal.
•b
“When given tinned camp-pie during the
gas strike her husband threw it into her face,
a woman told the Divorce Court.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
But not still in the tin, surely!
“Lam 6 hats were worn, also some leghorns.”
—Social Note.
Many by old chooks.
*b *b *b *b
“What are some of the innovations which
Romano wanted Australian turf clubs to
adopt?” queries racing commentator.
Printing race-books in Italian, say?.
“Cold weather meant less crime in city.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
A New-fangled Persuader.
. “In Detroit (U.S.) a Judge said it was all
right—legally—if Mrs. Grayce Milton wanted
to do her shopping with Nokomis, a six-foot
pet king snake, coiled around her body.”^
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.’’
Although her fad was legalised,
No sanction ever yet devised
Would have the slightest chance of
stopping
A person with a fault so whopping
From being promptly ostracised.
And yet her queer eccentric way’s
Should win enthusiastic praise
From shoppers, for a wholesome’fright
Engendered by a serpent’s gaze
Should help to resurrect those days
When customers were always right.
D. H. E.
The world is surely going mad.
For how can one describe as skill
The power to do what any lad
Can do, and darn well does, at will ?
BERT.
Once milady’s lashes fell
O’er eyes so full of dew;
Now when they drop she says “Oh, hell.
My eyes are full of glue !”
M. G.
Sweet and Low.
“In Virginia it’s legal for a husband to cuss
and abuse his wife —if he does it in ‘a low
voice.’ ” — Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Those heroes who have had recourse
To this rare legal safety-valve
Need never feel the least heart-broken
Because of twinges of remorse.
Since conscience has this healing salve —-
Their criticism was not outspoken.
BERT.
Very Puzzling.
“Reputed to be worth £150,000, the 80-year-
old widow of an American manufacturer living
in the Isle of Wight is to marry a handsome
30-year-old ex-Merchant Navy man. ‘All the
women look at Guy because he is so striking,’
she said. “I can’t for the life of me think
why he fell for me.’ ”
“It has been most gratiying,” said
Ben, “to observe the speed with which
the Bill to allow ourselves to grant our-
selves an extra ten pounds a week was
put through—it must just about consti-
tute an ajl-time Parliamentary record.
Awareness that the public—with which it
is obviously popular—was anxious to
see it on the Statute Book in case we
changed our minds had us all ‘on our
toes’, so to speak. But one thing has me
beaten —that is the complete absence of
recrimination and bickering about it.
Every other measure during the session
was marked by snarling and snapping,
yet the chief feature of the passage of the
Bill was the generally happy air and
good fellowship prevailing. I just can't
make it out at all!”
“I have heard,” said Uncle Joe, “that
awfully sweet of you, porter —I simply COULDN’T get a taxi !”
the Fascist reactionary M. Nagy has
thought fit to resign following the failure
of his vile plot against Hungarian demo-
cracy, One thing about the affair that I
fail to grasp, though, is how the Western
Nations could possibly have got the
notion that his resignation stemmed from
any pressure by Soviet Russia. Such a
thing, as all the world knows, is com-
pletely foreign to our democratic way of
life. But the thing that puzzles mfe even
more is, whatever possessed Nagy to go
rushing off to Switzerland, and why he
refused our kind invitation —at least that
of the Communist party in Hungary,
with which, of course, Moscow has no-
thing to do —to come back to Budapest to
stand his trial. This becomes even more
puzzling when it is realised how abso-
lutely impartial is the justly-celebrated
Communist method of administering
justice. Now you’ll have to excuse me
—l’ve got another liquidation to attend
to.”
“I just can’t make some things out,”
said Jimmy McGirr. “I promise to build
90,000 houses in three years and nobody
believes me. Why, last month alone we
must have completed fully 23, and of
course as soon as my 40-hour week comes
into operation output will jump owing
to everyone working we’ll say 10
per cent, less a week. That’ll mean
everything will be less expensive
and more plentiful, and things’ll
get that way that houses’ll be-
come so cheap we’ll practically have to
give ’em away. Just why there are so
many doubting Thomases in the com-
munity, in view of my logical summary
of the position, has me beat.”
“One thing I can never stop marvellin’
at,” remarked the secretary of the Log
Rollers’ and Hair Splitters’ Union, “is
how us leaders keep control o’ the
union, in view of all our lib’ral idees.
Why, except that we pack our meetin’s,
rig the ballots o’ union officials an’ bash
up any member that questions wot we’re
doin’, we do absolootly nothin’ to keep
in office. I caii’t make it out.”
“One thing I can never get the strength
of,” said the Famous Boxing Promoter,
as he selected another double Corona, “is
how, me being as generous as I am, I
still manage to go on. making tens of
thousands a year. If I’d treated the
pugs in a lousy way I could understand
it. But everyone knows I’m content with
taking only about seventy per cent, of
the gate for myself; and' when a bruiser’s
been knocked silly after working for me
for the best years of his life, I’m bene-
volent enough to allow the State to look
after him for the rest of it. Someone else
can work it out how, being such a
walking comforts fund for pugs, I still
keep on piling up the shekels —I can’t.”
“One thing that’s got me stonkered,”
said Arthur Calvell, “is why the reffos
think so highly of me. Anyone would
think I’d specially gone out of my way
to get them here, when it’s common
knowledge that practically all my energies
have been bent on bringing British
migrants out. As to the way the reffos
who left Germany with only the clothes
they stood up in are able to buy eighty-
thousand-quid blocks of flats after they’ve
been here only six months—well, I must
confess / was puzzled until I realised
what hard workers and thrifty people
they really are.”
“One thing I just can’t fathom,” said
Sydney Police Commissioner Mac Kay, “is
how so many people choose to regard me
as a false alarm. They talk of criminals
being able to do practically as they like,
and say Sydney has more crime than any
other city in the Empire. I’m not going
into statistics, but do people stop to
think there’s more crime in Port Said
or Marseilles? When you come to think
of all my brilliant exploits, such as charg-
ing a Government bus crew I’d tracked
down in the early hours of one morning
with being drunk—though the Court
wouldn’t believe me —and seeing at my
favorite dinner-dance joint week after
week and year after year a fellow I was
after on a murder charge, ‘Rom’s’ hat-
waiter, too —well, it is puzzling how any-
one could fail to accept me as a paragon.”
BO.
“These chilly nights are dreaded,”
Says the copper on his beat,
“By gangs who, though hot-headed.
Have got the coldest feet.”
YAIR.


THEOTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2jd. per line.
Merchant Seaman Once
I was recently offered training benefits
at the W. A. University under the Recon-
struction Scheme, but decided it was
more convenient to do the course at Mel-
bourne University. After about six weeks
of study there I was told that a mistake
had been made and that I should never
have been accepted as a trainee in W.A.,
as I was not eligible. The money I spent
on train fare and books was wasted.
Before a number of people I made
several half-hearted appeals. I under-
stood now that my service in the R.A.A.F.
had been too brief. Was service over-
seas in the merchant marine of any help?
Not much; certainly not as important as
a few months in a R.A.A.F. training
camp in Ballarat. But perhaps I could be
accepted for training by getting a pension
I did not want for a small permanent
injury I had sustained at sea.
“Why isn’t the fact that I was in action
at sea enough?” I asked. Surprisingly,
everyone concerned, Rehabilitation,
Appeal Board and R.S.L., gave the same
answer —“Because you made so much
money during the war.”
Maybe some merchant seamen made
big money, but a lot of us did not. Those
of us who went to sea after being dis-
charged medically unfit from the forces,
and who served a year as deckboy and
two years as ordinary seaman before be-
coming able seaman, think enviously of
the aircrew pay we would have received.
And we were deckboys and ordinary sea-
men in 1940, ’4l and ’42 when the war
at sea was at its worst.
In 1941 and ’42, as the senior o.s. in
an English freighter on the Atlantic run,
I received £5 16s. 3d. a month wages,
plus £5 a month war bonus. To earn this
we worked • a 64-hour week, extra
on sailing days and days of arrival. No
overtime was paid for work for the safety
of the ship. Some overtime was sd. an
hour, some 6d.; we were often worked
12 hours a day. Anyone who knows
the cost of living in New York will
appreciate how far even the maximum
rate of 6d. an hour overtime went
when we were sailing out of that port.
We bought all our own clothes, and even
cutlery, crockery and towels.
Along with the belief that we made
huge wages is the furphy that we received
■fat bonuses for carrying explosives.
While on this run we loaded thousands of
tons of explosives off the New Jersey
shore in a slow freighter which sailed
without benefit of convoy. We did not
receive a penny extra. We still made
the same money when in # tankers loaded
with millions of gallons of aviation
pfetrol.
Not that we complained—some of us
loved every minute of the life. But to
others, such as my unlucky ex-watchmate
in an oil-tanker who was totally disabled
by enemy action, and who now exists in
Adelaide on a British pension of
£5 12s. 6d. a fortnight, reports of our
fabulous riches make sour reading.
Mathros (Vic.).
R.A.N. and R.N.
“E.D.’s” discourse (B. 28/5/’47) could
be expanded to show further anomalies
in Navy emoluments and conditions.
About the only benefit in the much
vaunted promise of new pay rates seems
to be the proviso that no man will re-
ceive less than he gets at present.
Pay goes up, but many allowances will
be reduced or abolished. Non-substantive
pay will disappear. Specialist pay, charge
and other allowances are to be
absorbed in the common scale with a few
exceptions. Command money is to be
paid in seagoing ships only. Hard lying
money, a compensation for discomforts
afloat in small ships, will be reduced
from 3s, to Is., and only half that on
corvettes ; the biggest type to qualify, for
it. Marriage allowance drops from
4s. 6d. to 45., but an extra 3s. will be
payable to all ranks and ratings as a pro-
vision allowance for those at home, and
as a separation allowance to those away.
In typical “Labor” style the Government
covers this extra payment by abolishing
child allowance, at present 3s. for the
first and 2s. for the second. Not much
encouragement there!
Allowances for flying pay and sub-
marine pay are under consideration. Such
will be of little moment at present. The
R.A.N. has neither submarines nor
carriers and with “Labor’s” policy it is
unlikely to have either.
The press quotes Naval Board as trying
to attract the best types. It also wants
them to stay single—another saving of
money. There is no better type than the
steady family man; and there are many
such in the service.
Naval personnel are victualled on
Is. 9d. a day. They live fairly well in
Australian waters, but prices are high
overseas. In most ships this means that
the men pay “mess debts” or go hungry.
Crews’ quarters comprise a small locker
for personal effects, and sufficient space
to sling a hammock. lack does not know
what a real bed is. Privacy is unknown.
But the rating may soon expect to pay
tax on this assessed as worth 4s, 6d. a
day.
Ratings have asked for alcoholic drinks.
An obvious answer would be the adoption
of the R.N. system of a daily “grog”
issue. Duty-free to the Government, it
would cost the taxpayer little.
Abolition of 2s. a day for the central
stores officer will make him reluctant to
assume financial responsibility for ship’s
stores. He has to pay for anything lost.
This should be tried on the wharfies.
Officers of the executive branch, who
might reasonably be expected to be the
highest-paid, are actually the lowest.
Under the new pay code they will receive
the same as those in most other branches.
That the captain of a ship is rarely the
highest-paid officer on board may amaze
people, but it is often a fact. One man
commanded a major vessel as a “seagoing”
reserve lieutenant for 20s. a day, with
the ludicrous sum of 3s. a day command
money added. His second in command,
a “wavy navy” lieutenant, dental
mechanic in civilian life, was paid Is. 6d.
“Would you care to slip in and try it for size, madam ?”
a day more. The extra was a progressive
increase payable after a number of years
as a “Saturday afternoon sailor.” The
C.O. got no progressive pay for having
spent an equal number of years as a full-
time and fully qualified mariner _in mer-
chant ships.
It was, even so, this practical merchant-
navy experience together with a master’s
ticket which caused Navy Board to put
merchant-navy types in command of
most of the ships during hostilities. At
the time, this C.O. was with a flotilla of
similar class vessels, most of which had
lieutenant-commanders both in command
and second in command. Why those
latter were fit for higher rank and pay
while not considered fit to take charge
of a vessel is puzzling. Eventually the
half-stripe was granted, but only for the
period of his current appointment. Trans-
fer to thfe command of a similar ship
put him back to lieutenant, the navy
being unable to afford commanding-
officers at 31s. 6d, a day. It can, how-
ever, afford to have “depot stanchions”
and other forms of dry-land sailors con-
firmed in the higher ranks, although
many of them hardly know one end of a
ship from another.
The discontent in the R.A.N. is not
found in the R.N. In that service officers
and ratings join to have a career. They
are proud to be in the King’s Navy and
patriotic and dutiful. They know they
will be looked after and given a pension
up to £2 2s. per week for ratings at the
age of 40, and better for officers. An
R.N. lieutenant after 20 years’ commis-
sioned service can retire on a pension of
£495 sterling. This is taxable, but U.K.
cost of living is lower by comparison.
In the R.N. not only do marriage and
child allowances apply to all, but they
actually increase on promotion. This
gives a man an incentive to get on in the
service and to bring up his family in a
manner creditable to his country. Ex
Reserve (N.S.W.),
“Ratted”
Cargo-poaching has grown to great
proportions and business people and
private individuals are never sure
how far the ship’s manifest and the landed
goods are going to harmonise.
When a steamer from Sydney unloaded
at Burnie (Tas.) the waterside workers
found cases split open and the con-
tents removed altogether. Obviously
this had happened on the mainland. One
case, supposed to contain £2OO-worth of
underwear and clothing, had a solitary
child’s singlet nestling within. Everything
else was missing. A box of insulators
in the same consignment had been
opened, but it was otherwise untouched:
evidently the blackmarket in this article
is not yet fully organised.
From another ship, this time from
Melbourne, a consignment of shirts was
expected by a country firm. It got
the cartons which had contained them.
Business people are helpless and the
shipping companies say they’re doing
their best to deliver parcels intact, but
can’t perform impossibilities. The
“Government”? Inert, as usual. — Tasma
Jun. (Tas.).
Economic; History
“Dutigalla’s” criticism of economic
history as. taught at universities (B.
14/5/’47) does not apply in every case.
The Queensland University set book for
Economic History (1947) is Bland, Brown
and Tawney’s Select Documents, a collec-
tion of historical papers dating back
to beyond the Domesday Book, with only
the scantiest of editorial comment. For
additional reading Trevelyan is given a
prominent place, and in the lectures refer-
ence is frequently made to his works.
The study of any work on economical
history will demonstrate how social and
industrial relationships have always been
in a state of flux ; and the student becomes
convinced that the existing conditions
are also fluid. That, combined with the
eagerness, impetuosity, idealism and in-
experience of youth, js the reason for
the trend of ’varsity thought to Leftism.
What is not sufficiently stressed in the
’varsity course is that any changes have
been brought about by slow, selective
evolution, and not sudden, disruptive
revolution.
France had its “great” revolution,
resulting in the rise of a powerful
military caste beginning with Napoleon.
For France it set the clock back cen-
turies to the feudal days of the military
overlords. Today she is a nation groping
for stability.
The Russians also revolted. Perhaps
their revolution is too recent to be faith-
fully recorded by historians. But surer
every day can be traced the significant
and dreaded rise of the military caste,
certain forerunner of semi-servile soldier
and factory status for the bulk of the
community.
Industrial relationships in Britain and
Australia today have evolved over 700
years through three definite stages. Firstly
the “guild” period, when each craftsman
owned his own machine and his own raw
material, and disposed of his own pro-
ducts, Next, the “domestic” period, when
the craftsman owned the machine but not
the raw material nor the finished pro-
duct. Finally came the “factory v period,
when the craftsman owned neither
machine nor materials.
With the “factory” system there was
exploitation of labor —though even then
many employers realised the economic
wisdom of considering the welfare of their
workers —principally of \fromen and
children, because these particularly lacked
organisation. Today the employee has
organised so powerfully that, with the
aid of legislation from a sympathetic
Government, he is in a position to con-
ciliate with the employer. Logically,
therefore, the time has arrived when a
system of arbitration could function suc-
cessfully for many years to come. This
hope of millions of decent, willing Aus-
tralians will be realised if the noisy out-
cries of a vociferous minority are treated
with the scant respect they deserve, —
Professor (Q.).
“Landlord” and 1 Tenant
The “landlord” today has so little
right of control over his property that he
might just as well be without it. He may
not sell except at a price nominated by
a Government official, and it generally
takes the department many months
to make up its mind what the price should
be. If he decides the price permitted is
below the value of the property he has
no right of appeal to any tribunal, and
can only approach the department again
and again ad desperandum. He may, of
course, cast his scruples to the winds and
sell on the blackmarket, becoming a
criminal in the process.
t If he wants his property back for a
home for himself or for his dependants
he must apply to a magistrate for an
order giving him possession, a process
which may take six months of litigation
and end in failure because the magistrate
regards the tenant as having superior
claims. A plea that the owner let his
premises when he enlisted for active ser-
vice carries only nominal weight and, in
these enlightened times, brands him as
a fool for sticking his neck out.
His tenants may sublet his premises
or assign their tenancies without regard
to his wishes —except, once more, in a
nominal way. True, should they do so,
he may give them notice to quit, but that
matter also must be referred to a magis-
trate, and involves long waits and, again,
the question of relative hardship. And,
anyway, under the Conveyancing Act an
owner may not unreasonably withhold
his consent to transfer or assignment or
subletting of a tenancy.
If his tenants pack his house with rela-
tives or lodgers and the property suffers
accordingly he can obtain no compensa-
tion. The Government nominee decides
arbitrarily what rent he must charge and
what services he must provide in return.
It is likewise his bad luck if the tenants
decide to have all their relatives come to
stay when an action for possession is
pending. The owner’s case will need to
be superlatively good before a magistrate
will give him an ejectment order which
might put seven or eight people in the
street. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Stock Transport
Some Tasmanian Federal representa-
tives never tire of talking about what
they are doing to give the State adequate
sea transport. A north-western farmer,
whose farm at Forest in the Circular
Head district is all that a dairyfann
should be, thinks otherwise.
After months of effort to have
prize stud Jerseys shipped to a
newly-bought property in the Goulbum
Valley, he approached Trans-Australia
Airways. The herd, consisting of two
bulls, 22 cows and heifers and 21 calves,
was flown across in four trips on Satur-
day and Sunday to Essendon. A vet. and
cabin attendant travelled with the beasts,
which, were on- and off-loaded without
the slightest fuss -- and were quite uncon-
cerned in the air.
To get to the airport at Western
Junction (Tas.) they had to travel by rail
(as per Governmental regulation), which
necessitated entraining on Thursday night,
being jolted leisurely along the 150 miles
of outmoded track all day Friday and
detraining the same night. They could,
and should, have been in the paddocks of
their new home in the Goulbum Valley
18 hours after leaving Forest, had road
transport been sanctioned in the Apple
Isle. Instead they were en route for over
40 hours. On the Victorian side road
stock transports met the ’planes at Essen-
don and landed the cattle at Kyabram
in a few hours.
Meanwhile, Mr. Drakeford has said
he can’t see his way clear to sanc-
tion the expenditure of £30,000 to com-
plete a first-class airport at Smithton,
which would serve all the rich north-west
coast districts. I don’t suppose £30,000
is much in excess of what it would cost to
send a fully-equipped staff, with all at-
tendant trimmings, on a jaunt to Canada.
—Pegasus (Tas.),


New States and Population
There is one path to population staring
Mr. Calwell in the face—smaller States
and more of them, on the American
plan. /
American figures demonstrate the
success of smaller States, and of a real
immigration policy.
Uncle Sam has increased the number of
his people so fast that overpopulation is
already in sight, and there is a growing
surplus that can be spared for migration
to Australia and other countries where
America has interests that need watching
and developing. In 15 years Aus-
tralia has gained 1,000,000 from immigra-
tion and natural causes, while the number
of childless marriages, the decline in the
birthrate and the fertility of marriages
have dropped so sharply that ' even Mr.
Calwell is alarmed, or says he is.
At the same time the colored races over
our back fence are swarming in hundreds
of millions, increasing like rabbits, and
turning hungry eyes towards Australia,
where it will be 50 years or more at
the present rate before we have 10 or 12
millions. Even then our density will
be only about four persons to the square
mile, against America’s 100 to the same
area.
Europe is bulging with good potential
migrants, clamoring to get to Australia
or some place like it. There are Nor-
wegians, Dutch, Czechs, Poles, Austrians,
Germans—the kind of people who filled
America and helped to make it the nation
it is today. We have great areas of land
all over the Commonwealth, undeveloped
or locked up for grazing, which could
provide a paradise for these eager
migrants. Populated with good agricul-
turists these areas would rapidly attract
secondary industries, and thus further in-
crease population and wealth.
The first step should be the establish-
ment of at least half a dozen more smaller
States, with self - government and the
consequent incentive to go ahead and
work for their own benefit. The second
would be a vigorous immigration policy
that would open its arms to all decent
men and women of the white race
willing to work for the land which
would become their own in reasonable
time. Go after the farmers first, and there
would be no need to seek for the others,
—Alfred O’Toole (N.S.W.).
Darwin
Since the end of the Pacific war Dar-
win has once more dropped into ob-
scurity.' The town now has a population
of approximately 6000, and more Com-
mos per waterhole than in any other
place in the Commonwealth.
Southern newspapers find no space for
complaint when, for instance, a ship full
of food is allowed to leave the port un-
loaded because the Commos have a
grievance, A week before the Westralian
ship was due to arrive the wharfies
coolly announced they were going on a
24-hour strike as soon as it docked.
With food prices in Darwin so high
and so many essentials scarce it is hard
to understand the mentality of these
“workers.” The housing position in Dar-
win is as acute as in Sydney, and
materials and labor are not forthcoming.
How, then, can the present Government
expect or hope to populate the north?
Darwin is in a bad way. Indeed if the
crowd at Canberra persists in its present
attitude toward the N.T. it will one day
find it peopled almost entirely by
foreigners.— Martinique (N.T.).
Town and Country
During every Victorian transport strike
m which country trains are withdrawn
press and radio loudly declare that
the city’s food supply is endangered.
Only in crises of this kind the city re-
members its dependence upon the
country. But what is being done to en-
courage the man on the land, or give
him those little amenities which are taken
for granted by city dwellers?
Plains predominate in most of inland
Australia—country eminently suitable for
aerodromes. Instead of competing with
established airways, the Government
should open up air services to the larger
country towns in the plains. Then the
country dweller may get his morning
paper and mail no later than his city
brother. By facilitating visits by
musicians and artists, fast transport could
greatly improve the country’s cultural
life.
Water, however, is the greatest need of
inland areas. A good country town is
one with a good water supply, and the
same can be said of farms, especially in
the Mallee. Having only a poor rainfall,
this fertile area needs abundant water,
to make it capable of full production.
For the lack of it, farmers struggle on
in the face of droughts and poor harvests,
with the bitter knowledge that their land,
given water, would be both productive
and profitable.
Such irrigation as there is in the dis-
trict is through open channels, and m
some cases only 10 per cent, of the water
—and certainly never more than 50 per
cent. —reaches its destination. The rest
is lost through soakage and evaporation.
Soil erosion is another problem, and
to keep the Wimmera-Mallee irrigation
channels free of sand-drift the Victorian
Government spends £250,000 annually.
Taking the long view, it would surely be
a better proposition for the Government
to spend the admittedly large sum of
£52,000,000 to convert the system to an
effective pipe-line supply.
Instead of such vital works as these,
we learn of 1 a plan to build a wall round
portion of Port Phillip Bay to prevent
erosion of Melbourne’s beaches. —H. C.
(Vic.).
In Queensland
In addition to heavy sheep and cattle
losses, the drought pulled the Queensland
sugar cheque down by £1,600,000 and cut
butter and cheese income by £3,000,000.
The sugar position has been worsened by
transport hold-ups. Perhaps more than
any other State Queensland is suffering
from the strike mania and resultant short-
ages, and it has a growing number of un-
employed, some of whom have been told
that they can’t go on drawing Common-
wealth unemployed-relief.
Among other things, Queensland ex-
pects most of its painters to be sacked
because there is no paint, there being no
linseed oil with which to make the stuff,
though the new Indian “Government” has
promised to send some.
All this in the State which, on the'score
of resources and extent, should be the
richest in the Commonwealth. I daresay
its resilience will pull it through, and,
as the visiting Welsh expert said, it has a
“Promise to give us half an hour's
Warnin' before the beer goes off?"
great future in coal production if energy
and vision are applied to the problem.—
Norther (Q.).
Child Delinquency
Much has been said and written by
learned and well-meaning psychologists
who study the subject from a distance.
I sought the opinion of a lady who had
charge of a group of ’teen-age girls dur-
ing the war-effort. She gave her solution
in four words: “Too much pocket
money” and expressed her reasons briefly.
“My girls were allowed to smoke and
talk. Their conversation was all about
boys, ‘shows,’ hairdos, makeup, dances,
parties and dress, and every day I heard
open confessions that would have shocked
the rigidly righteous. Social engagements
seemed to average two shows, two dances
and a party per week. Wednesday even-
ing might be spent at home when funds
were exhausted. Thursday was pay day
Contributions to the home were small;
the parents were usually both working
for good wages.
“Those girls were not bad or vicious.
They were simply having a good time
according to their lights and their income.
They had more money than sense and
more liberty than mental balance. The
same lot, with empty pockets, would have
been quite content to knit, sew, read or
help with the housework.”— Simple
(S.A.).
Blood Money
When, through illness, I had to cease
making donations to the blood bank my
card showed that I had given 5400 cubic
centimetres of blood —the result of 11
trips to the centre.
Recently a friend of mine, needing a
surgical operation immediately, managed
to find a vacancy in the private section
of a Government hospital. After the
operation he suffered a haemorrhage
and was given a blood transfusion. Im-
mediately I sent my name and address
to the hospital, explaining that I was a
donor and would give any further blood
required, or would replace any blood
drawn from the blood bank. Several
nights later another haemorrhage occurred
—and the patient died while being given
a transfusion.
When the account was presented to the
widow she was asked for £7 for the
transfusion. I protested to the secretary
and was told “We expect a relative or
friend to replace the b%ood to the blood
bank.” When I agreed with that, but
objected to the widow being charged £7
for blood that was donated free, the reply
was “It’s not the blood you pay for;
it’s the upkeep of the pathology depart-
ment That prepares the blood into serum.”
When I pointed out that the Red Cross
supplies the blood to the hospitals in
serum form, ready for use, at no charge
whatever, I was told that the charge was
for the house doctor’s attention in giving
the transfusion.
I could have asked just what the hos-
pital fees were paid for, but I just decided
I wouldn’t be using my blood donor’s
card again.—H. C. B. (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Training
A strong case has been made out for
compulsory military training, but to en-
sure that it will be of military value first
things should be taken first. Men should
be taught to fire rifles accurately before
they learn to present arms. They should
learn how to advance across country
under fire before they learn the cere-
monial slow march.
In early 1942 ground-staff recruits
called up by, the R.A.A.F. spent more
time learning to salute and perform
parade-ground manoeuvres than in fitting
themselves for active service. I know, be-
cause I was one of them, and qualified
for my active-service
badge before I had fired
more than five rounds with
a rifle. Unarmed combat,
bayonet practice and com-
mando tactics played no
part in the rookies’ course,
but we knew all about
saluting flight - lieutenants
and below and squadron-
leaders and above in the
approved manner.
In any system of peace-
time training emphasis
should be on the things
that matter. Fatigues
should be the duty of a
staff employed for the pur-
pose, and trainees should
spend all their time being
trained. But unless civilian influences are
brought to bear professional military con-
ventions might make compulsory camps a
waste of time. — Butt-Salute (N.S.W.).
N.T. and N.G.
In the N.T. and in New Guinea indi-
vidual settlement may have a funeral
if the present state of affairs continues,
since the only settlers with an apparent
survival value are those who have
the money and connections to wield
a big stick. Others are so harassed
and policed that they lose heart.
Thus new planting in New Guinea
appears to be a thing of the past, and
the reopening of the goldfields is repre-
sented by the efforts of Bulolo and such
concerns, the only ones able to deal with
Canberra at all effectively. Here Can-
berra policy seems curiously in line with
that at Tennant Creek (N.T.), where the
miners, except for two or three shows, are
entirely dependent on Government bat-
teries, and they are nearly always closed.
At Tennant one plant was able to
work throughout the war. The rest were
shut down and their owners conscripted.
—V. E. (N.Q.).
Salary Grab
Payment of members was introduced
with a view to cover out-of-pocket ex-
penses, not to make well-paid jobs. Mem-
bers know what the salary is to be be-
fore they nominate. Once elected they
fight hard to retain their seats at each
approach to their constituents —rarely is
there a voluntary withdrawal. ‘ If the pay
is insufficient why don’t they seek some-
thing more remunerative?
The average elector’s viewpoint is that
if they are dissatisfied with the present
conditions they can get out, because there
are many more men, just as capable,
really to take over. Further, no one can
hide from the fact that, apart from about
three men on either side of the House,
the rest just make up* the team. —
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Patent Medicines
I don’t think a degeneration from the
“sulphur-and-treacle” days is the reason
for the increase in the number of chemist-
shop lines (B. 28/5/’47). Competition
among medicine-makers has become
keener so that aspirin is now sold under
about 50 different names and in about
500 different combinations, the same rule
applying to almost everything else, in-
cluding cosmetics. In older days you had
your choice of, say, six cough-mixtures;
now you can ramble through shelf after
shelf of them.
But I don’t think we’re “coddled into
softness.” Science has progressed so that
perhaps 20 causes of common headache
are now treated separately instead of all
being doped with the one “headache-
cure.” Patent-medicine manufacturers
might make a fortune rather undeservedly
sometimes, but at least the endless variety
of pills and potions testifies to science’s
ever-inquiring mind. Eve Merritt
(N.S.W.).
“Pitchers”
As American dollars are so scarce,
surely it’s a bad policy to squander those
we have borrowed on 80 per cent, of the
talkies dished up to the Australian pub-
lic. About 20 per cent, of the stuff is
worth looking at, but the rest is just so
much filling so that the pictureshows,
like the wireless, can be on all the time.
I ventured 2s. 7d., and was rewarded
with about 3d. worth of entertainment.
First a “serial” which meant nothing to
those who had not seen previous instal-
ments, although that was no loss judging
by the sample submitted. Next a “Pop-
Eye”—distorted drawing and distorted
speech. Then two good “shorts”—that’s
where I got my 3d. worth.
After the interval there was a trailer of
the next “stupendous feature”—the life
of Gershwin, who, we were told, com-
posed the finest music ever written. Then
came the main picture. Its story was of
the type which I had given up reading in
Chums and The Boy’s Own Paper over
30 years ago. Of course the kids loved
it, but that was not what I had paid
2s. 7d. for,—Ceg (Vic.),
The Butter Subsidy
The butter subsidy of paid by
the Government on production during the
drought had some cockeyed results. The
young chap on the hill lost three cows,
and output was so light that his sub-
sidy was a bare £l3. The chap just be-
low him on the flats doubled him in pro-
duction on the same acreage, had no loss
in stock and came in for a subsidy of
£3O. — Bungle (N.S.W.).
Lifeless?
The lack of life and energy in Aus-
tralians is perplexing. In the Army it
was noticeable in the inordinate length
of time devoted to “spine-bashing.”
Amenities and sports officers met with a
lethargy from which it was difficult to
rally young men to join in sport or to
take enough exercise to keep fit.
Certainly the climate of the north and
the islands was enervating, but other
abuses and causes may also have con-
tributed to the prevailing lassitude.
In 1945 the Army took a census of
soldiers’ plans for civil life. The purpose
was to obtain information to guide and
help in rehabilitation by ascertaining
what each man wished to be and do. I
helped many soldiers fill in their state-
ments, and was amazed at the high pro-
portion who either had no idea what they
wanted to do or else wanted an easy
job. There was little thought of finding
a position with some future, or in which
a man might work himself up the ladder.
The tired, purposeless, lethargic, “near
enough” spirit is everywhere evident. In
B. 1/1 / ’47 it was suggested that the main
cause was climatic and that the decline
could be checked only by a steady flow of
immigrants bringing new blood. The
writer pointed out that to maintain the
speed and stamina of our racehorses we
must import bloodstock. But if climate is
to blame there should be a clearly observ-
able difference in the vitality and birth-
rate of, say, Tasmanians and Queens-
landers. The Bananalanders I’ve seen
have as much energy and go in them
as Tasmanians.
I received new thought on this subject
in Elyne Mitchell’s book. Soil and Civil-
isation. Mrs. Mitchell argues that all
energy, vitality and fecundity come from
the soil, and that where there has been
misuse of the soil resulting in soil erosion
there is lack of harmony between man
and nature which adversely affects man
physically and psychically. Man cannot
receive from the impoverished soil the
creative energy and fecundity he requires
for racial preservation.
Soil and Civilisation is a challenging
book. The Asiatic countries which have
maintained their soil fertility over
thousands of years have ako retained a
creative vitality and high birthrate.—
Alpha (8.C.0.F., Japan).


- ‘ .>*!i
■?*'
Mor
0
« %, <*•
mea
ns
Mor
Steel
e
m
mm
AHS
11
zr ~**3^
Cfs
I
1
Afor
i&**'
li'WV: '
e
||\-)| HJ
x. £
:!\li
HAULAGE; Steel
wire rope being
manufactured at
Newcastle. N.S.W.
mi
FOR
m
wm
si
| HI
e
■I
i
RBW
V
SHIPPING; A 6.000-ton freighter
ready lor launching at the B.H.P.
Whyalla Shipyard. S.A.
fi
ENGINEERING: A huge press shapes
Australian motor car bodies.
mSSt
m
■ ! i
FENCING: Wire netting being gal-
vanised at Hylands* Wire Mills.
Newcastle, N.S.W.
STEEL : A glowing ingot of B.H.P. steel emerging from the bloom
mill at the Newcastle Steel Works.
■i
kps
. W
«v m
mmmi
TRANSPORT: Motor car assembly line welders on the job.
HOUSING; Galvanised corrugated steel
sheets being packed at Lysaghtrs New-
castle Works, NS.W.
EMPLOYMENT; Some of the Newcastle Steel Works.
7.000 employees coming off shift.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth
London, Singapore and Philadelphia.
STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W. SHIPYARD, WHYALLA, S.fl.
