

GREAT WESTERN Sparkling Wines
ARE PRODUCTS OF THE
a®
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3534
Wednesday, November 5, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, fojf Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MIGHTY FORTRESS OF THE FAITH IS MONAGHAN CATHEDRAL
gOME fifty-two miles from
Dublin, on the Ulster Canal,
Monaghan township grew up round
a monastery and, has remained a
notable centre of ecclesiastical cul-
ture and education. Built during the
incumbency of a Bishop, Donnelly,
this modern cathedral is a reminder
of Monaghan’s ancient name, for the
word “Monaghan” is derived from
“Muinchan” or “the dwelling of the
monks.” Prior to the reign of
Elizabeth, the district around Mona-
ghan was known as “McMahon’s
country.” The town of Monaghan
itself contains few relics of great
antiquity, but the surrounding
countryside has many interesting
temples, raths and towers. Mona-
ghan was the residential seat of the
Bishop of Clogher, said to be
identical with Ptolemy’s Regia and
was made a Bishopric in the year
493 by St. Macartin.


Story, Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit,
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name ...
My Address .
S B. 247 AGE
A DARING NOVEL THAT HAS
CREATED A FURORE IN ENGLAND
Francis King,
has created a
a leader among Europe’s poets,
furore with his first novel . . .
TO THE
DARK TOWER
This intense human
drama has char-
acters that live,
situations alive
with passion, sus-
pense, fast-moving
action.
A Shakespeare
Head Novel.
1
The Red Page
A LIFE OF SHERIDAN.
Few men have provided better material
for their biographers than did Richard
Brinsley Sheridan. He was a spectacular
fellow and, in an appropriately spectacu-
lar setting—watching from the Piazza
coffee-house his Drury Lane theatre bum
down —he made one of the most magni-
ficent remarks ever uttered: “Cannot a
man take a glass of wine by his own fire-
side?”
Lewis Gibbs, who retells the life story
in Sheridan (Dent), hardly does justice to
these spectacular qualities in the play-
wright. He mentions once or twice
Sheridan’s fondness for practical joking,
for instance, but only in one short para-
graph does he go into specific details:
It was about this time, too (to take a
view of Sheridan in yet another light), that,
in the disguise of a police officer, he ap-
peared at Lady Sefton’s and arrested her
for unlawful gaming; and, as a guest at
the Pavilion, took advantage of the dark-
ness during a “phantasmagoria” to sit on
the lap of a haughty Russian lady, whose
screams were loud enough to be heard
from one end of Brighton to the other.
Here, where there is a chance for pic-
turing Sheridan in his setting, and for
further instances of his extravagances of
humor—an opportunity to enrich the
book and the portrait together—Gibbs’s
record ig too bare and too brief. Simi-
larly, though he mentions Byron’s affec-
tion for Sheridan, he never shows the two
together; resists, indeed, with altogether
too much restraint the temptation to
digress at all into a portrayal of Byron.
And again, while there is not exactly an
evasion of Sheridan’s many and colorful
love affairs, and certainly none of the
absurd moralistic castigation that D. B.
Wyndham Lewis indulged in in his recent
life of Boswell, Gibbs shows a disposi-
tion to make the least of these episodes.
It is all very correct, no doubt, but a
biographer might as well make the most
of his subject.
Gibbs’s special contribution to the
analysis of Sheridan’s life is a prolonged
examination of his debts. These, again,
were spectacular, and many and mys-
terious. As nearly as was humanly
possible Sheridan solved the problem of
how to live like a millionaire without
really possessing a penny of his own. To
be precise, he owned £I3(K) when he
bought a £lO,OOO share in Drury Lane;
then later, when he sold that share and
took over a controlling interest of
£45,000, he got back bis original £1300;
and thus, as Gibbs says, “accomplished
the considerable feat of buying property
to the value of £45,000 without spending
a penny of his own.” On this largely
imaginary fortune, and on what came in
from the theatre —never enough to meet
his enormous obligations Sheridan
floated through life and only once, near
the end, when “thousands and thousands”
were due to him from the theatre,
found himself temporarily in a debtors’
prison. Gibbs, quoting Boaden’s life of
Kemble, describes the floating process:
Sheridan’s habit was to keep his visitors
distributed variously, according to their
rank or intimacy. Some penetrated into
the library; others tired the chairs in the
parlors, and the tradesmen lost their time
in the hall, the butler’s room, and other
scenical divisions of the premises. A door
opening above-stairs moved all the hopes
below, but when he came down his hair
was dressed for the day and his counten-
ance for the occasion; and so cordial were
his manners, his glance so masterly, and his
address so captivating, that the people,
for the most part, seemed to forget what
they actually wanted and went away as
if they had come only to look at him.
From a mathematical viewpoint,
Gibbs’s unravelling of Sheridan’s en-
tangled finances is impressive ; but almost,
concentrating on the figures to the ex-
clusion of the man, he reduces his hero
to an algebraic formula. One glimpse of
Sheridan in action is worth many pages
of statistics—even a glimpse as remote
as this:
When William Smyth called on him he
found that Sheridan’s town house was in
Grosvenor-street. His son Tom, however,
to whom Smyth was to be tutor, was run-
ning wild in his father’s mansion at Isle-
worth; and as for the house which the
tutor and* his pupil were to occupy, it
was at Wanstead. Sheridan himself turned
out to be living at none of these places,
but at Nerot’s hotel.
The book may also be open to criti-
cism on the grounds of Gibbs’s refusal —
a surprisingly common error in literary
biographies— to portray Sheridan prim-
arily as a man of letters. Certainly, when
he gave only five years of his life to the
writing of the plays that have made his
name immortal, there is a case for re-
garding Sheridan essentially as a theatre-
manager and a politician, the man who
ran Drury Lane (into debt) for 30 years
and the man who was the inveterate
opponent of Pitt, the loyal, though
capricious, follower of Fox, the rival of
Burke m the denunciation —in flowery
and somewhat hollow tones of righteous
indignation—of Warren Hastings. Gibbs,
believing that Sheridan’s prime motive
in life was to shine amongst the nobility,
out-facing and out-glittering what was
thought a lowly origin as the son of an
Irish player, says that he took to play-
writing simply as the most obvious means
of making money in his time. He says,
too, and truly, that Sheridan’s “Pizarro,”
though immensely popular both with
audiences and its author, showed no trace
whatever of a genius for tragedy:
“Ha! Be it thy horror here to know
we shall meet hereafter! And when thy
parting hour approaches, hark to the knell
whose dreadful beat will strike to thy des-
pairing soul. Then will vibrate on thy ear
the curses of the cloistered saint from
whom you stole me. Then the last shrieks
which burst from my mother’s breaking
heart as she died, appealing to her God
against the seducer of her child! Then
the blood-stifled groan of my murdered
brother —murdered by thee, fell monster!
—seeking atonement for his sister’s ruined
honor. I hear them now! To me the
recollection’s madness! At such an hour
what will it be to thee!”
But Gibbs is on less sure ground when
he asserts that the brilliant comedies ex-
hibit a “lack of invention.” The comic
genius of playwrights manifests itself not
so much in invention of plots—which are
usually a juggle of absurdities —as in wit,
spirit and the creation of character; and
Sheridan’s plays certainly had their full
measure of those qualities. It is not
really likely that, though he may well
have thought he did so, any man ever
turned out a lasting work of art for
money; artists obey the dictates of their
genius. The writing of “Pizarro,” and
Sheridan’s tavern bets that he would come
back to play-writing, showed that, beneath
all his political and social activities, he
was still haunted by the dream of
creation; and his excessive drinking, if
he is to be regarded as primarily a.
creative artist—which is how the world
remembers him—might well enough be
considered a drugging of the artistic con-
science.
What a name Sheridan could have
made for himself and what a contribu-
tion to English comedy if he had given
30 years instead of five to his art! Did
he really, in his heart, think that attack-
ing Pitt was more important? In the
biography of a literary man one would
at least like to see this point of view con-
sidered before it is rejected. Gibbs,
though once again there is no actual
evasion, does not seem disposed to dwell
on the plays as he might have done.
For all that, Sheridan is a creditable
and pleasant biography. If the color is
toned down, and if there is no profound
and dramatic analysis of character, there
are the compensating virtues of restraint
and balance. Though it is a lesser work,
the book resembles Edmund Blunden’s
Shelley in its judicious quality and avoids
not only the moralistic ranting of both
Wyndham Lewis’s The Hooded Hawk
and C. E. Vulliamy’s Ursa Major (re-
cently reviewed here), but also Wyndham
Lewis’s other errors of period overstate-
ment and psychological oversimplifica-
tion. An example of Gibbs’s admirable
moderation is • his refusal to picture
Sheridan, in spite of his drinking, his
money difficulties and his exclusion from
Cabinet office, as an unhappy man or as
a theme for a sermon:
It is easy to think of Sheridan, dying
miserably in debt, as an awful example of
lost opportunity, imprudence, dissipation
and want of principle; but the picture is
misleading. He had had too much out of
life to see it in that way. He could be
magnificently indifferent to his material
fortunes —a characteristic which always
annoys those who set much store by such
things. Political life, in particular, gave
him much that he would never have fore-
gone willingly. His speeches won him ad-
miration, and this flattered his vanity; but
then, they also won him fame, and the
treasury of British eloquence would be
the poorer without them. They were quite
independent of the success or failure of
his party The truth is, Sheridan’s
speeches, like his comedies, were manifesta-
tions of his artistic powers and satisfied
broth his need for self-expression and his
thirst for applause. They began, signi-
ficantly enough, when the comedies ceased,
and it is easy to find the same touch of
genius in both.
A slightly ironical style, a little thin,
adds a touch of grace to the sobriety of
Gibbs’s judgments and, though he “plays
down” the facts, color and excitement
keep forcing their way into the book in
spite of him, or at any rate lie close be-
neath the surface: for he is careful to
record all the significant events of Sheri-
dan’s life, and even the bare outline of a
career which was enlivened by a flight to
France with Elizabeth Linley and two
duels before the age of # 21, and subse-
quently by play-writing, theatre manage-
ment and a political career at the time
of the French Revolution, is sufficiently
charged with the spectacular.
A Journalist in Chile.
Hakon Mielche’s Land of the Condor
(William Hodge, Ltd.) is an account of
the author’s wanderings through Chile.
Mielche is a journalist, and makes no
bones about it; and the book skims
pleasantly through geography, economics
and politics.
Thus, on pages 37, 38 and 39, along-
side amusing thumbnail sketches of
humpies, picturesque ruffians and sinister
knives, there is something about the roto.
The roto, Mielche opines, has been much
maligned. Tourists who have stayed in
Chile only a few days have been fond
of picturing him as an assassin “sneaking
around with a curly knife up his sleeve
and burning with impatience to plunge
it into the back of some innocent citizen.”
But the roto does not kill for profit. He
can, and does, kill people with his curly
knife, but only when he has been insulted.
And that, apparently, is an ancient
Chilean custom.
The roto, as described in Land of the
Condor, is a fascinating phenomenon. He
is “underprivileged,” but doesn’t know
it. He is no teetotaller, and has no fond-
ness for work, although he sometimes
sells lottery tickets, 'and:
In his picturesque rags he saunters with
the greatest unconcern and naturalness along
the pavements among smart ladies in Paris
models and gentlemen in the latest thing
from Savile Row. He stops at a street
corner and lights the black cigarette stump
that he has just picked up from the gutter,
with all the grandezza of an oil king in-
haling the first pull of his Henry Clay.
He spits a long, black jet right past the
nose of a stiff, smart carabinero and so
demonstrates his superiority over everything
and everyone, and then wanders on towards
the benches of the Plaza where sunshine
and green trees invite one to spend the
long hours of happy vacuity called the
siesta, that royal inheritance of the Latin
races.
On page 40 is a sketch of a Com-
munist, heartily orating from a forum,
and the accompanying paragraphs are
interesting, in the light of recent happen-
ings in Chile and the expulsion of two
Yugoslav diplomats for Communist
agitation.
The Government of Chile, Mielche
states, is Leftish, with tendencies towards
a Popular Front structure. There are
Communist agitators in plenty but the
people as a whole—particularly the roto
—are apathetic to Communism or, in-
deed, any form of politics. Which, of
course, by no means rules out the likeli-
hood of a Communist, or any other,
coup d’etat, as history has frequently
demonstrated.
Land of the Condor was published this
year, and the implications are that it is
based on recent observations. Mielche is
inclined to believe that even the Com-
munists would fight shy of a revolution,
owing to the extraordinarily primitive and
inflammable nature of the lower classes,
who would probably treat it as a gigantic
and exhilarating bonfire, and show no
political discrimination in the use of their
curly knives; a melancholy prospect for
agitators.
More valid reasons are the strong
Catholic dislike of Communism and, to
a less degree, the influence of American
capital, which has been responsible for
most of Chile’s industry—although this
influence has been, and is being, whittled
down.
In any case, Mielche observes, the real
ruler of Chile is alcohol.
From the roto it is a far cry to South
Chile, where there are German colonies
more German than Germany. This is an
extremely interesting chapter on a colonis-
ing experiment.
But the most interesting, although the
least quotable, sections of the book are
those dealing with two industrial under-
takings, a coppermine and a saltpetre
town, both under American control, both
imposing unheard-of reforms on the
native workmen including, in the
coppermine, prohibition; a thing no
Chilean Government has dared to attempt
—and with an equally fantastic standard
of living. High wages, good food, married
quarters, low rent, educational, medical
and other free benefits. A possible com-
parison might be the B.H.P. town of
Whyalla, but the differences in national
culture make the Chilean cases infinitely
more dramatic.
In the mining town of Maria Elena,
for instance, the Americans were troubled
by their employees’ strong bent for kill-
ing each other. The town was isolated.
drinking and gambling palled and the
workmen were driven by boredom to this
typically Chilean occupation. Pay was
another problem. Unlucky gamblers used
to waylay the paymaster on his way in
from the coast. By what must have been
a masterpiece of organisation the Ameri-
cans re-planned the town, attracted
married men, weeded out undesirables and
spent a fortune on pipes to ensure a good
and abundant water-supply.
The desert didn’t exactly bloom like
a flower but there was greenery ; families
cultivated trees as other folk would pets.
Houses were expertly designed to be cool
in summer, with the most efficient labor-
saving gadgets. There were places for
flowers on the window-sills. There are
public baths, and children are compelled
to bafhe three times a week. Their
elders cannot be forced, and some of
them regard the practice as dangerous,
if not impious, but they are becoming
more tolerant. And the experiment
worked—“ When a man is married and
has flower-pots on his window-sill and
has seven children at home, he thinks
seven times before he throws up the job
that gives his family food and clothes
and tickets for the cinema.”
The author is a Dane, and the trans-
lation is by M. A. Michael. On the
whole, the book is bright, amusing and,
in some of the questions it raises, thought-
ful. Geography and economics are never
piled on so heavily as to lead to dulness,
although there is evidence that Mielche
is scrupulous with his facts. The more
so since frequently he advances them in
defiance of his personal sympathies, which
appear to be Leftist and anti-clerical.
Soil Erosion.
From a genuine alarm and with a
genuine desire to awaken civilised man
to the danger of making the world un-
inhabitable many books are being pub-
lished on soil erosion. In one of the
latest, The Earth’s Face (Faber), Dr.
Ehrenfried Pfeiffer quotes from no fewer
than 87 separate works by European,
American, African and Australian writers
—the last, and the only Australian one
quoted, being the anonymous author of
Conserve Your Soil, published by the
Bank of N.S.W., Sydney.
Dr, Pfeiffer, though this is his fifth
or sixth book on the subject, doesn’t
quite get the effect he is seeking, per-
haps because he is confused between his
sense of urgency regarding soil damage
and his obsession with landscape garden-
ing. All the same, he is, without knowing
it, a strong supporter of the Australian
Jocelyn Henderson and her ambition to
make every country town grow, tend and
manage its own community forest.
Pfeiffer makes, the point, again and
again, that the world will be brought to
an end by man himself unless he mends
his agricultural ways, and backs it with
such devastating evidence as this:
For Yucatan the time consumed in the
transition from intensive cultivation to
wasteland was a scant 50 years.
The Earth’s Face is plentifully illus-
trated with photographs, but more dra-
matic pictures leap out of the printed
pages: —
Japan took over industrialism as a
weapon and tried to transform the ancient
spirit of the small Chinese peasant. The
methods practised on the grain steppes of
America, whose end may be a desert, fight
against the irrigation methods of the East.
Between these opposites stood the old Euro-
pean culture, where healthy tradition and a
biologically founded world conception,
engineering science and hand labor, in-
dustry and art, toil and contemplation,
tried, before mental dissipation created the
present chaos, to unite in harmony and
create a balance If man fulfils his mis-
sion then culture will be preserved. If not,
then Nature demands her rights; wounded
in majestic beauty, as in the Grand Canyon
or a desert plain or the Rocky Mountain
wastes, she creates for herself the peace of
death. The fate of the Judean desert stands
before us as a warning.
As, it might be added, the fate of the
Victorian Mallee stands before Aus-
tralia as a warning . . . Unhappily, this
scientist-author wanders in those regions
where altruism, science and the jargon
thereof make a mixture far too com-
plicated for ordinary persons to analyse.
His message is clear enough; but a
simpler book for a wider audience might
do more good.


< ——
A
Anthony Horderns'
124 Years of Service
■?
For business or pleasure . ,
In near lands or far,
You’ll travel in style . , #
Wherever you are!
1-—Leather Suit Case made from selected
cow-hide in grained or plain polished sur-
face. Two English locks, leather capped
corners, overturned edges, covered metal
frame, cloth lined with two Jnside pack-
ing straps. Size 24in .. £5/18/-
26m. ... £6/7/9 28in. ... £6/17/6
2- — Cabin Case, cloth covered, two wooden
bands, two locks and centre clip fastener,
metal frame and valance. Colour; Dark
Blue; lightweight. Size 28in. Price, 52/'
M
—Man’s Fitted Toilet Case, made from
fancy grained leather, containing hairbrush,
razor, -nail file, mirror, soap container,
shaving brush. Price 47/-
mmm
4.— Leather Bowls Case, made from genu-
ine cow-hide, polished surface, two English
locks, strong handle, reinforced with metal
corner-pieces, four leather loops to carry
bowls. Size, 1 Sin. Price 51/-
s. —Fibre Utility Cases, can be used as
Attache Case, Suit Case or Hat Case.
Centre lock, two clio fasteners, fibre
capped corners, metal frame on body
and lid of case; lined throughout.
Size, 16in. Price 23/6
6.— ‘Leather Travel Bag, made from
selected hide, with slide fastener, two
secure ringed handles: doth I’ned, with
inside pocket. Size, 1 Sin. Price, 72/6
• Travel Goods—Ground Floor, Pitt St.
*
Freight not paid.
y 'j
*r
m
’PHONE; M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


SUPERFINE
LIQUEU RS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
d
[Beehive Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
The "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
fd
Immediate
Delivery.
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
cluding saw and planer
olades, £l7/10/-. Also
woodturning: lathe outfit.
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
IJin. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, docs
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States.
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
mm/M/mm
W.
Airway Cases. In
woven-striped,
waterproofed canva*
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited ...
but increasing!
Made
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
0
0
0
(for
>U)
•m
2JIIIII!II!I!!II!III1\'
;illlllliilllililllllllllllllllllllilllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|||||||||||||||||||||||lilllilllllllll!lj|||||l!lllllll|lillllllllllilllllllllllllllllll!^
For holders of
FIVE-YEAR SECOND LIBERTY
AND AUSTERITY LOAN
BONDS AND STOCK MATURING
NOVEMBER 15. WHO
CONVERT
Wl W Elm. i
their Maturing Securities 3j%
FOURTH SECURITY LOAN
BONDS AND STOCK
Conversion is the easy, safe and profitable way of re-investing your
funds. No worries finding other investments, no complicated transfers—
just fill in the application form sent you recently and return it to your
bank. Your investment continues at a higher rate of interest —Fourth
Security Loan Bonds pay 3i% for a 12-year term —a more generous
return than any other investment of comparable security and negotiability.
Don’t delay ... convert to-day!
And why not have more of this fine investment? Make a cash or instal-
ment subscription to the Fourth Security Loan as well.
FACTS ABOUT THE FOURTH SECURITY LOAN
1. All you lend will be used to finance continuing war commitments,
important national works and the continued rehabilitation of ex-service
men and women.
2. Bonds (for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO or Inscribed Stock) may
be purchased for cash or by instalments through any Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker. Interest is payable each six
months at 3i% per annum for 12 years. Your bank will hold your
Bonds in Safe Custody free of charge and credit interest to your account.
3. Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the Commonwealth.
Bonds and Inscribed Stock are readily saleable to meet an emergency.
4. On your application form, credit your subscription to your district to
help its quota
INTERNATIONAL QUIZ: Australia v. united states., all stations, Monday, November io. at 8 p.m.
45L.3.113S j
f
df
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con- , . ;
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO _ Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy The Tore of the Lyre Bird by
Ambrose Pratt.—4l2s.
To' buy copy of Three Men in a 80at. —4126.
To buy books on breeding and history of the
cocker spaniel.—4l27.
Information Sought.
(1) Whom did the former Duke of > Kent
marry and how many children did he leave ?
(2) What is the position of his children in regard
to the order of succession to the throne?
(1) The former Duke of Kent, brother to
King George VI, married Princess Marina of
Greece and Denmark. He was killed on active
service on August 25, 1942, leaving two sons
and one daughter: Prince Edward (the present
Duke of Kent), Princess Alexandra and Prince
Michael. (2) Order of succession to the throne
is the daughters of the Sovereign, and after the
younger daughter the Duke of Gloucester and
his sons; then the Duke of Kent, his brother
and his sister.
* * * ♦
What is the meaning of hedonism ?
It is from the Greek word meaning pleasure,
the doctrine of ethics in which pleasure is
regarded as the chief good, or the proper end
of action. This was, in a certain sense, the
doctrine of the Cyrenaic school, outlined in
“Aristippus, or the Joviall Philosopher,” a
dramatic sketch by Thomas Randolph (1605-
1635), an acquaintance of Ben Jonson.
* * * *
Principle on which an alcohol petrol gauge
on an old Ford V 8 car works? Is such a
gauge easy to repair? The alcohol appears to
have evaporated.
It works by the transmission of pressure from
the petrol tank through a tube containing air
to a U tube containing colored fluid on the
dashboard. The end of the tube in the petrol
tank is open and extends to the bottom of the
tank. When petrol is introduced into the tank
it rises in this tube and compresses the air in
the tube and thus forces the fluid in the indi-
cator down one side of the U tube and up
the other. The movement of the latter is
visible on the dashboard, and when suitably
calibrated indicates the amount of petrol in
petrol tank. Cannot say whether the gauge
can be repaired, as we are not aware of its
condition. As this gauge is out of date you
may have some difficulty in obtaining the
colored fluid for ✓it. Suggest you get in touch
with Cossey Bros., Adelaide-street, Brisbane,
who are the Ford distributors in that city.
» * * *
Words of the first verse which “Bellerive”
contributed to The Bulletin’s “Answers to
Correspondents” column ?
Verse printed in the “Answers to Correspon-
dents” column is not indexed and “Bellerive’s”
first effort is buried soipewhere in our old files.
He assures us, however, that the following, so
far as he can Remember, was his first con-
tribution;—
Where was Jack Johnson born ? From whom,
and where, did Johnson win the world’s heavy-
weight championship, and to whom, and where,
did he lose it? Is Johnson still alive?
Jack Johnson was born at Galveston, Texas
(U.S.A.), on March 31, 1878. Won world
heavyweight title from Tommy Burns at Sydney
Stadium on December 26, 1908, and lost it to
Jess Willard at Havana (Cuba) on April 5,
1915. Johnson was killed in a motor-car acci-
dent at Raleigh, North Carolina (U.S.A.), on
June 10, 1946.
Brief Answers.
D.G.: Cow manure should be stacked,
watered occasionally and allowed to rot for
at least three months, then turned, broken up
finely, and dug into the soil. Cow manure is
particularly suitable for sandy and light soils.
F.S.R.: Vine vegetable seeds will germinate
up to the third year after being gathered. Un-
used seeds should be stored in boxes or tins
(in which small holes have been made) and
sprinkled with naphthalene or tobacco dust to
combat insects C.C.W.: Provided the soil is
built up with sandy loam, drainage provided
for, and the position is free from strong winds,
Geraldton Wax shrubs can be grown in Bris-
bane. Lilacs, however, need cooler areas. If
Brisbane merchants are unable to supply plants,
write Anderson and Co., 399 George-street, Syd-
ney. Plants are quoted at 2s. 6d. upwards, plus
postage J.C.: Prune off browned foliage and
branches and give the boronia shrub a surface
top-dressing of rotted leaves. Avoid fresh
manures, lime and strong fertilisers, and re-
strict watering. Like other native flora boronia
often wilts off after a few years. The less
native plants are cultivated the better results
are obtained R.D.C.: Suggest that you con-
sult The Pacific Islands’ Year Book, available
most public libraries F.H.8.: (1) The old
Tivoli Theatre, which stood in Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, near King-street, was once known as
the Garrick Theatre. (2) The Victoria Theatre
was in Pitt-street, between King- and Market-
streets, near where McCathies, Ltd., now stands.
(3) Have been unable to trace the date
L.M.Y.: Bradman was born August 27,
1908; S. Barnes June 5, 1916; E. Toshack
Dec. 15, 1916; A. Morris Jan. 19, 1922; D.
Tallon Feb. 17, 1916; A. L. Hassett August 28,
1913; R. Lindwall Nov. 3, 1921; C. McCool
Dec. 28, 1918 S.N.: Cut helichrysums (ever-
lastings) for preserving during dry weather when
blooms are fully expanded. Hang the flowers
head downward in an airy room until thoroughly
dry. and they will last indefinitely indoors
L.H.: If a batsman thinks he is out and walks
away from the wicket the umpire is not re-
quired to intervene except on appeal or should
he consider a decision has been misconstrued.
Any umpire may alter a decision if, in the
hurry of the moment or by a slip of the tongue,
he has given a wrong one, provided that such
alteration is made promptly A.D.R.: Write
to the Cement and Concrete Association ot
Australia, 14 Spring-street, Sydney.. ..P.W.8.:
We have posted a copy of the Standards Assoc,
of Aust. specification on fibrous-plaster pro-
ducts. The Standards Assoc, will shortly issue
a more up-to-date specification on the subject.
Write to them at Science House, Gloucester-
street, Sydney, and ask that a copy be sent
to you A.E.G.: Write to Mr. Cox, Munitions
Supply Laboratories, Maribyrnong (Vic.), who
specialises in the preservation treatment ot
textile materials... .R.G.: Consult your doctor
if trouble persists. Under medical supervision
a local tissue haemorrhage may be cauterised if
adrenalin styptics fail. A home remedy is
liquid witch-hazel. Place the neck well back
• over high-back chair with pressure on nape
of neck. This procedure definitely lessens the
blood flow A.E.McL.: Write Industrial
Registrar’s office, Dept, of Labor and Industry,
53 Martin-place, Sydney... .V.N.L.: Sodium
peroxide is not made in Australia, but n*a>
be obtained from Elliott’s and Australian Drug
pty Ltd., 20 O’Connell-street ; H. B. Selby
and Co. Pty., Ltd.. 254 a George-street; and
Townson and Mercer (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 23
Lang-street —all Sydney.
FOUND DEAD IN , THE STREET.
SLUM RHYME OF THE EARLY ’NINETIES.
A unfortunate woman was—
Found dead in the street.
By a policeman on duty.
On his early mom beat.
Borne to the morgue—
For a doleful inquest.
From squalor and sin—
Her soul was at rest.
After the coroner’s verdict.
The remains of the dead.
Were coffined for a—
Pauper’s burial bed.


Legal Notice.
SNOWBALL.—IN THE MATTER of the Estate of
JAMES SNOWBALL late of Stirling Street Perth in
the State of Western Australia Retired Builder De-
ceased.—WlLL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
GORDON BRUCE SNOWBALL son of GEORGE
HUNTER SNOWBALL late of Stirling Street Perth
m the State of Western Australia and a grandson
of JAMES SNOWBALL late of the same address or
the whereabouts of any child of the said Gordon
Bruce Snowball please communicate with THE WEST
AUSTRALIAN TRUSTEE EXECUTOR & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED of 135 St. George’s Terrace
Perth in the said State, The said Gordon Bruce
ftnowball was last heard of in Sydney in the State
Df New South Wales in the year 1914 he being then
23 years of age.—HARDWICK, SLATTERY AND
GIBSON, of Victoria House, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, Solicitors for The West Australian Trustee,
Executor and Agency Company, Limited.
Divorce Notice.
10 CHARLES ALFRED NEEDHAM of address un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the 2nd day of October 1947 has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of Western Australia in its
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction citing
you to appear and answer the Petition of LILY
DOREEN NEEDHAM of 603 Murray Street Perth in
the said State Married Woman praying for disso-
lution of marriage In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition proved
and pronounce sentence in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you within forty-live days from the date of
the publication of this Notice are to attend in person
°r by your Solicitor at the Central Office of the
said Supreme Court of Western Australia at Perth
and there enter an appearance in a book provided
i?*^ a L P^ rpose - —(L ’ s ’> J - BOYLSON, Registrar.
MARGARET BATTYE, 8.A., LL.B., Southern Cross
Chambers, 7 Howard Street, Perth, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
STOPvDunßupture
Worries/
Mark ® locaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance Free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defi-
nitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed
no matter where you
live. Call or send stamp for details
rPTMOTIf frvrrM* nnJ 1
ui seau stamp tor details. Self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE BOUSSEE APPETANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27) 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
'THAT'
HAVE YOB
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against
difficulties and loss which might arise should your Executor die or
become incapacitated. By means of such a codicil you can name Burns
Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint Executor with your present appointee or,
if you wish, as sole Executor. In this way you gain positive assurance
of continuous and sound administration and are relieved of a serious
anxiety. The Company will willingly forward full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P, T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen JLoxton - Erie* Priestley Eee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R, Overton APIA
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY L I M I T E D
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE » AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE I BIT 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
THE MAGIC ALPHABET
The Lessons of which are specially compiled
for HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BKTEN HOABE,
M.8.1.M.5c. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump ouf
of Bed In the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
Of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
•nd the_ world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
GILBEYS is the
ALL-ROUND FAVOURITE
m
am -
m
m
m
m
Jtl
h m
m
m
m
mm
mm.
Wr :
%
& fc'O^
m
< i. :•>
S
4»
'
S'
i?S
3??^
«f.
c„
CS
«! S
Oi^x-rt
o*v*»
"
CTILL leading the field after
nearly 100 years is Gilbey’s—
a thoroughbred gin.
Don't say GIN say
ILBEYS
THE WORLD STANDARD BY WHICH AII'GINS ARE "JUDGED^
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
P.N.8.: All the imagery is secondhand
J.C.R.: If that is the best you can write in
your “midday reveries” you’d do better to take
a siesta.. . .MJ.C.: Keep at it L.H.: The
last line is fair enough, but as a whole it’s
prosy M.C.: An idea for a poem rather
than the finished article M.C.8.: For a
woman’s paper.... Riverbender: Come again;
keep them short W.A.: Plod a pace, then:
I have found I’m slowly turning
Into a domestic clod.
’Gainst my will my feet seem burning
In rutted ways to slowly plod.
When I feel with my feet for Holey
Always lying near my bed
I awake realising my folly
For Holey is long since dead.
A.M.D.: Thin... .T.N.; If the newsboy
really had to listen to that story it’s no wonder
he walked away sobbing R.D.M.: Your
humor would sink a battleship J.P.S.: You
might get into politics that way, but not into
poetry 8.J.L.: You’re well at sea already:
They say I’m crazy going to sea
But God knows that’s where I really should be.
A life-loving lad, a healthy sailor.
Happy on liner, cargo or whaler.
... .Quantong; “I enclose another inspiration
received over one glass of ale.” Stick to water:
Taxation is a worry,
As most of us agree,
But without work instead of shirk
Where is this beaut Aussie?
... -.G.H.: “It has not been previously pub-
lished.” We accept the assurance, but what
is remarkable about the fact? K.M.S.: Don’t
tell us that those two prospectors are still
trudging across “a waterless, arid tract, be-
neath a blazing sun, with a flock of' vultures
hovering above” E.J.P.: Sorry, but you
can’t launch your rocket ship in our pages....
V.M.: Call and collect the erring damsel and
her unwanted babe A.J.F.: We found that
collection of rustics a very maddening crowd.
J.M.B.: Why must you go back to the
Napoleonic wars? A.S.: For all its detail,
local color and atmosphere it never seems to
come to life L.L.: Your rambling reminis-
cences received an unenthusiastic reception
F.A.L:. Your hero, “the eldest son of a
noble family, born to fabulous fortune, and
educated at the best centres of learning,” does
not belong to the setting in which you have
placed him G.M.: Your writing belongs to
a period when taste was more florid and
sugary than it is now W.H.T.: It doesn’t
qualify for a Bulletin “Thank heaven that’s
paid” cheque M.E.; A pale ghost of O.
Henry in modern dress G. 8.: There seems
to be a wide gulf between intention and per-
formance in your work S.P.P.: Impassioned
plea for art for art’s sake with its fin de siecle
theories wrapped in lavender and returned....
Bellerive: Enter, and pay your tribute:
.. . .P.D.G.: A callow self-consciousness and
artificiality show through your work... .H. 8.:
“I am seeking a ready-made public for my
youthful efforts.” Seek elsewhere, young man.
A.E.J.: You mistake the short story for
a platform and a soapbox C.K.R.; Refuse
to admit to our pages those “cruel and sinister
denizens of the grim and silent jungles of
Brazil” R.8.W.: Your prose has a some-
what overladen quality S.L.D.: As crude
and immature as the average first effort
E.T.A.: Your failure is due to the fact that
you’re not familiar with your subject K.N.:
Put it aside for a couple of years and come
at it again T.R.: There is a dreadful
monotony about the thoughts and speeches of
those tedious pedants W.J.H.: Too much
gore in your crime story for our liking
N.8.H.: Try it on a woman’s paper....
A.D.H.: Tale of the waterfront too much like
a yarn by W. W. Jacobs C.W.: Since your
“tall and thin aesthetic” wouldn’t make a meal
for the office lions he was spared and is now
on his way home K.A.: P.C. Muldoon is
not the first copper to be served with a bottle
of water instead of gin by a shrewd sly-grogger.
L.N.S.: Found your flirtatious A.W.A.S.
more than a trifle tedious by the time we
reached the third page P.W.: Send story
about sportive choir boys to a parish magazine.
H.R.H.: As exciting as a railway time-
table G.H.C.: Effort to present Hitler as
alive and a shearer’s cook was a dismal flop.
S.R.: Susie, despite all her cuteness, didn’t
make the grade J.G.: Your preoccupation
with food suggests that you would be better
employed compiling a cookery book E.N.S.:
Humorous writing is not your medium.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R. 8.: “Have I much to learn?” Plenty,
brother, plenty T.F.: About the only thing
you got right were the spots on the Dalmatian
dog M.A.: Wash drawing has the appear-
ance of having been given a mud-bath before
being sent to us E.D.T.: A paddock of
nettles each bearing a label doesn’t make a
political cartoon H.S.M.: “I have studied
all the best modern black-and-white artists.”
It’s hard to believe C.H.M.: Our nautical
expert tells us that you’re all at sea J.F.L.:
The girls in that harem are certainly no beauties.
R.B.K.: The jest belongs to World War I.
H.N.B.: Who is the queer-looking politician
with a ball and chain fastened to his ankles?
RECOLLECTIONS OF MY BELOVED MOTHER.
Fondly mother dear predicted.
When my gift was but a spark,
Prom a flicker ’twould flasheth,
Like a searchlight in the dark.
The critic of my early verses,
In my boyhood days of yore,
Gently on a summer evening,
She fell asleep for evermore.
As the years did rolleth onward,
When to trials my life was cast,
Vividly her fond prediction
Echoed from the distant past.


■
Shaping the spear,
Kimberley district.
One of a series of Cast
Bronze Plaques, depicting
aboriginal life, modelled
by Ralph T. Walker, and
cast by Wunderlich
Limited, for entranqe
doors to Public Library of
N.S.W.
of design
. . and faithful workmanship are exemplified by Wunderlich crafts-
men, in the portrayal of the bas-relief or modelling designed for
cast or fabricated Metal doors, entablature, plaques, coats-of-arms,
and similar architectural embellishments.
Architects and Builders planning ahead for the employment of
distinctive metal-work cast, wrought, or stamped are invited
to consult us. Call MX 2411 or write to G.P.O. Box 474.
Architectural metalwork
I Ik in bronze ‘Aluminium - stainless st£€l*€tc
VISIT OUR SHOWROOMS OR WRITE TO WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY. TEL.: MX 2411, G.P.O. BOX 474.
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.; BRISBANE, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, LAUNCESTON, HOBART,
PERTH, ASSOCIATES: H. L. BRISBANE 8i WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
1
Thanlcs
for the acclaim!
OF
ACHIEVEMENT
IN AUSTRALIAN AVIATION jj
\\
w -
THE name of Qantas, now celebrating its
silver jubilee, has been associated with 25
years of continuous airline operation. This
pioneer company inaugurated Eastern Australia’s
first regular air service—between Charleville and
Cloncurry on November 2nd, 1922.
Since that humble beginning, Qantas has
progressed from strength to strength, blazing
new sky-trails, drawing Australia closer to the
world. To-day, the original inland route has
extended to Darwin at one end, to Brisbane at
the other.
Further afield, Qantas operates from Sydney
to New Guinea, New Caledonia, Fiji and (in
association with 8.0.A.C.) to Malaya, India,
Egypt and England. The 21,000 miles of routes
already flown will soon be increased considerably,
as Qantas Empire Airways carries the Australian
flag to more and more corners of the globe.
Qcmtad
empire airways
Australia’s INTERNATIONAL Airline
Mr. Stoke hdd no Complaints
By
RODERICK
FINLAYSON
MR. Stoke lives with his wife in
“Bay View CoUage” at Polbay.
He retired from country store-
keeping a few years ago and
nowadays spends his time gardening.
Mrs. Stoke keeps the cottage, which is
cosy and small with white walls and a
green roof, like a doll’s house. And in
front of it Mr. Stoke’s neat garden of
flowers and shrubs is very much admired
by the garden-lovers of the bay. They
say it sets off the little cottage to per-
fection.
Mr. Stoke is very particular about his
garden tools. They are all of the best
and he keeps them in good nick. So you
can imagine how annoyed he was when
a man named Tupper, an outsider who
rented a neighbor’s place for a week’s
fishing, borrowed Mr. Stoke’s garden
fork (to earth up the owner’s potato crop,
he said) and didn’t return it.
Mr. Stoke says never ’borrow, never
lend. But this fellow was so plausible,
only wanted the loan of it for a jiffy.
Then when he packed up and went the
fork went with him. So, it turned out,
did the neighbor’s potato crop, potatoes
being scarce at the time.
THE only thing to do was to buy
another garden fork. ,Mr. Stoke went
to town to pay his county rates and to
complain to the council about the state
of the road in front of his place.
“I’ll pick up a fork at the ironmonger’s
while I’m in town,” he told his wife.
But after a long heated discussion with
the county engineer (during which Mr.
Stoke said he’d be hanged if he would
pay a penny of his rates until the road
was put in order) there wasn’t time to
go to old Tom Juddery’s ironmongery
in the suburbs where he usually bought
his tools—not if he wanted to catch the
last bus for Polbay. So Mr. Stoke, re-
luctantly, went into Super-Metals Ltd.,
the big new hardware store in the city,
“I don’t like those big concerns,” Mr.
Stoke used to say to his wife. “They
don’t seem friendly-like.”
Going into this store was very different
from going into the neighborly old iron-
monger’s. Mr. Stoke felt uneasy at once.
Juddery’s Family Ironmongery had a
homely tool-pitted counter with big dusty
scales on it for weighing out nails and
bolts, and hanging over 4 it a huge spool
of twine on a fitting with cast-iron grape
leaves on it. There were boxes of nails
on the floor, and grates fit to hold a
bushwhacker’s log, and all over the place
were spades and axes and other tools
that you could take up and feel the
balance of. And there was a nice smell
of iron and packing-straw.
BUT in this hardware store Mr. Stoke
scarcely knew where to go, what
with the vistas of glass-and-chromium
show-cases and the neon signs flaring red
and green. He couldn’t find any tools,
only snappily contrived electric gadgets
and streamlined ornaments.
Although only a short time before he
had been dressing down his county
engineer now he diffidently approached
a counter with a spotless top of blood-
red where, in place of the old iron-
monger in waistcoat and black apron, he
saw several salesmen in monogrammed
linen smocks looking like doctors or pro-
fessors.
However, the one that looked most
like a professor with iron-grey hair and
pince-nez came forward and spoke quite
cheerily with a nice Lancashire accent;
and he seemed to know about garden
tools.
In his agitation Mr. Stoke had been
pressing his hot fingers on the gleaming
counter-top and a large steamy smudge
was spreading around them. Fancying
that the salesman noticed it Mr. Stoke
guiltily took his hand away, leaving its
smeary print on the blood-red glass more
noticeable than ever. He was glad to
follow the man to the rear of the shop,
where he chose a handy-looking fork
and was about to pick it up to carry
home when the salesman said, “Oh, don’t
bother carrying it. It’ll be a nuisance
on the 5 o’clock bus, won’t it? Our
delivery service doesn’t cost you a penny,
and you’ll get the fork first thing to-
morrow,”
“Oh, well —thank you very much,” said
Mr. Stoke as the man took the fork
from him. After his diffidence this
chap’s helpfulness and his nice voice and
even something about his large protruding
ears pleased Mr. Stoke so much he felt
suddenly quite a brotherly liking for him.
He went home really pleased.
NEXT day as Mr. Stoke was enjoying
the shade of his back verandah a
fast delivery van pulled up outside and
the driver brought in a garden fork—■
not the sample one that Mr. Stoke had
handled in the showroom, but one beauti-
fully wrapped in greaseproof brown paper
and cellophane. When Mr. Stoke un-
wrapped the fork he noticed at once that
it had a peculiar bend.
He stepped out of his slippers on the
back-door step, pulled on his garden boots,
and went down to the old onion bed to
try out the fork.
“By jings!” he exclaimed to himself,
“she’s a beauty. Perfect balance, you’d
never tire your back with this. And it’s
all due to that special bend. Strange I
didn’t notice it in the shop.”
Mr, Stoke was so pleased that he called
over the hedge to Mr. Tong, his nearest
neighbor, to let him try the fork and ask
him if he’d ever seen anything like it.
“No, never,” said Mr. Tong after try-
ing its lovely balance. “I wish I had
one myself.”
“I tell you what,” said Mr. Stoke, “I’ll
pop into Super-Metals and get them to
send you one like this when I’m in
town next Monday. I want to go over
for a little yarn with the county
engineer.”
“Oh, about the road?”
“Yes, about the road.”
ENTERING Super-Metals’ big store
quite breezily next Monday Mr.
Stoke went up to the shopman with the
nice Lancashire accent and the friendly
ears and asked him to send out another of
those garden forks for a neighbor. “That
new pattern you sent me,” he said. “I’ll
pay for it now.”
“Oh yes,” said the shopman, bringing
out one of the other kind. “This Easy
Earthshifter model.”
“No, like the one you sent me. The
kind with the bend.”
“With the bend? This is our only
model. It’s standardised.”
“Oh no, mine has a special kind of
bend. Perfect balance, you know. Easy
forking, lifts itself almost.”
“But we carry only this line. 'lf there’s
a bend in it it must be damaged.”
“Damaged! I tell you it’s perfect,”
said Mr. Stoke. “My friend wants one
like mine or nothing at all.”
The shopman looked puzzled, and a bit
worried, as he wanted to be helpful. “Tell
you what, sir, you go up to the com-
plaints department. They attend to
damaged stock.”
“But I’m not making any complaint.
It’s a perfect fork,” Mr. Stoke insisted.
“Oh well, that department handles all


—keeps
lower/
kills Quick
Spray with SUPER QID! Its unsur-
passed combination of 5% D.D.T.,
plus Pyrethrum and Thanite, makes
it deadly to flies and other insects.
It not only hills on contact —but
keeps on killing for weeks and
weeks.
6
m.
m
R
m
I
\i\t^
Boz 1/8
16oz 2/11
YOUR HOME NOW!
Rid your home NOW of the health-
endangering menace of FLIES and
other insects—quickly, easily, surely!
Simply spray SUPER , QID on ceilings,
walls, light fittings, in garbage cans and
wherever flies gather. It is sudden
death! Knocks them cold with a lethal
dose that KILLS for certain in double-
quick time.
Get SUPER QID now. Flyproof your
home for the whole summer.
THE KNOCKDOWN RESIDUAL SPRAY
.
mm
RUM
OVERPROOF
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD ESI. 1848 {mil
ALL -YEAR- ROUND
COMFORT your home
SHE
i
m ■
B. I. SLAGWOOL
IN SUMMER, when temperatures soar, you will
doubly appreciate the cool comfort that 8.1. Slag-
wool brings to your home. Rooms are 8° to 15°
cooler, even on the hottest days. Bedrooms are no
longer like ovens—you sleep soundly, wake
refreshed, feel better and eat better,
because 8.1. SLAGWOOL keeps the heat OUT.
IN WINTER, you will no longer be spending
considerable amounts in keeping the home warm,
if you insulate with 8.1. Slagwool. And what a
difference 8.1. Slagwool makes—it holds the heat
inside the home—all rooms are uniformly comfort-
able—colds are fewer, and the whole family enjoys
better health,
because 8.1. SLAGWOOL keeps the heat IN.
/ -•
insumuom
LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 190 Sussex Street. Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins St., Melbourne; Shell House, Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM. Shell House, North Terrace, Adelaide.
T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray Street. Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. FLOWER, DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent:^ WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin, gj Q 2 4
inquiries. Just a matter of formality.
Take the lift to the third floor, sir.”
After having had such faith in his one
friend in this bewildering store Mr. Stoke
felt just a little hurt. However, he went
up to the third floor and on leaving the
lift found himself facing the long polished-
wood counter of a large office. A violet
neon sign read COMPLAINTS.
There were three or four young men
in a group before an imposing battery
of cabinets studying records of some sort.
About half a dozen girls sat in front of
typewriter-desks or stood gracefully near
by. Huge white columns mushroomed
into the high ceiling. The whole place
was full of magnificent office equipment.
A FTER a moment or two of sidelong
. appraisal (during which she evidently
liked the look of Mr. Stoke’s trim grey
hair and bristly moustache and lively
eyes) one of the young women drifted
over to the counter.
Her flimsy white bodice and swaying
red skirt were cut to the fashionable idea
of Hollywood peasant dress. She rested
her long bare arms on the counter, tilted
her head of fair hair—done in the style
of Scandinavian film stars —and fluttered
her round blue eyes a moment without
speaking. Then she softly drawled, “Yes?
You want to see Mr. Hooser?”
Mr. Stoke was taken aback at first. He
blinked foolishly at the girl. Something
reminded him of other days, but the
Hollywood effect confused him, and the
words that were on the tip of his tongue
got all mixed up. This annoyed him.
You oughtn’t to be disturbed like this
when on business. He wanted to settle
the matter of the garden fork and that
sort of thing was very upsetting and
annoying. It seemed quite the wrong
place to mention a garden fork. A silly
thought came to him. He could see him-
self standing there in that immaculate
office with the fork plastered with garden
soil in his muddy hands.
He said sternly, “About a —l have a
complaint to make. That is, I have no
complaints—l better see Mr. Hooser,” he
finished.
“This way please, Mr. ?”
“Stoke,” he said.
The girl swung ahead of him to the
door of the inner office. “Mr, Stoke to
see you, Mr. Hooser,” she announced, and
stood aside with a cool smile.
< < ODD afternoon, Mr. Stoke,” said
Mr. Hooser, a forcefully polite
young man with handsome yellow hair
and a faint moustache. He smiled charm-
ingly, his eyes narrow with suspicion.
“Please take a seat. Some little com-
plaint?”
“It’s about a garden fork I bought
here” —r— Mr. Stoke began reluctantly and
then hesitated. He didn’t want to talk
about his garden and his eye for good
tools to this man impatiently fingering
his bundles of papers in this deadly
place.
However, Mr. Hooser’s eyes made a
good pretence at cheeriness as he smiled
his relief. “Oh, a garden fork —we’ll
soon adjust any claims for compensation
arising in connection with that. We be-
lieve in friendly contacts and entire satis-
faction for our customers, you know. If
you would like it replaced right away”
He seemed about to usher Mr. Stoke
happily and helpfully out.
“I don’t want it replaced,” said Mr.
Stoke. “I want another like it.”
Mr. Hooser raised his faint eyebrows.
“But I can’t get one. They make out
it’s—well, a freak or something.”
Mr. Hooser looked troubled, and a
little anxious. Mr. Stoke went on to
explain, but that didn’t make Mr. Hooser
any easier. “That Easy Earthshifter
model is our highest standard of per-
fection, you know,” he said accusingly.
“The fork with the bend in it is per-
fect,” Mr. Stoke insisted. “I want another
like that.”
Mr. Hooser laughed a little dry laugh.
“This is rather extraordinary,” he said.
“It’s hardly a matter for my department.”
He seemed to have taken a dislike to
Mr. Stoke, a man with no complaint.
“You had better come, with me to the
General Manager,” he said in a tone like
that of a teacher taking a boy to the
Head. “Follow me, please.” And he
wept from the office to the lift, keeping
His back turned to Mr. Stoke while they
awaited it
As they entered the lift Mr. Stoke had
the satisfaction of slightly jostling Mr.
Hooser in the doorway. It was such a
sly jostle that it left Mr. Hooser wonder-
ing if it was intentional or not. Squeezed
chest to chest with Mr. Stoke in the
crowded lift he squinted at him sourly.
When they came to the General
Manager’s office Mr. Hooser went in
alone and spent some minutes in whis-
pered conversation before he reappeared,
said, “You may go in now,” and left.
THE General Manager was a large
loose bored-looking man on the far
side of a vast expanse of polished desk,
its surface unmarred by papers of any
kind, but in front of the Manager were
batteries of telephones, dictaphones, press-
buttons and colored lights.
Wearily and without conviction Mr.
Stoke began tp explain about his garden
fork. “What a fuss over a garden fork! ”
he thought to himself. A gadget on the
desk quacked right in his ear, the tele-
phones continually interrupted him.
The Manager, casually picking up one
or other of the ’phones and talking into
it in a undertone, didn’t appear to take
much notice of what Mr. Stoke was say-
ing. Without realising it Mr. Stoke began
to speak louder and louder.
“Yes, yes,” said the Manager to Mr.
Stoke at last, “this is great weather. Too
good to be in here ... I said too good
to be in here,” he repeated, raising his
voice above the quacking gadget. The
colored lights * winked in front of Mr.
Stoke’s eyes. “Oh, hang it all,” said the
Manager, “let’s switch off all these fiddle-
de-dees. It’s too nice a day to spoil.”
He flicked over a row of switches and
all the gadgets went dead. “So you
have a garden. Grow roses?” he asked
suddenly. “And sweetpeas? . . . Ah!
Oh, well, I tell you what,” he went on
absentmindedly. “Leave the complaint
with me and I’ll see that our representative
calls on you and settles everything. At
the moment, you see how I’m fixed . , .”
He spread large loose tired - looking
hands. /
' Mr. Stoke tried to say something, but
the Manager had switched on again and
only nodded wearily but encouragingly
from beyond the battery of quacking,
buzzing instruments.
So Mr. Stoke went home. He told
his neighbor that there was something
very fishy about the business. It seemed
that his was the one and only such
garden fork.
“Extraordinary!” said Mr. Tong,
looking as though he thought his friend
had been boozing.
THE following afternoon two young
men in a car arrived and they walked
over to where Mr. Stoke was hoeing his
bean rows.
“My name’s Fox, Product Investigation
Department, Super-Metals Ltd.,” said the
young man with the chestnut hair and
black-rimmed glasses. “Meet Mp Rawns-
ley, ohr Field Advertising Specialist.”
Mr. Stoke nodded and shook hands
with both of them.
“I contact users of agricultural imple-
ments,” said Mr. Rawnsley, smooth and
dark, “and I study slogans against en-
vironment and the individual case. Earth-
shifters Shape the New World, you
know,” he announced, confidently, staring
hard at Mr. Stoke.
“Well, we’ve called to examine the
garden fork you made a complaint
about,” said Mr. Fox with an air of
getting down to business.
“I made no complaint,” said Mr. Stoke.
“It’s the best fork I ever handled. I only
asked your firm for another like it. And
they make this fuss about it!”
“Oh, I understand the fork was dam-
aged in transit. Anyway, may I see it?”
When Mr. Fox was shown the fork he
whistled softly. “Damaged all -right!
Look at this bend, Rawnsley. It would
soon go there. Metal must be badly
crystallised.”
“Y-e-e-s,” Mr. Rawnsley agreed. “A
little job for the lab. crowd, eh?” He
turned to Mr. Stoke. “Of course isolated
casks of crystallisation occur in the best
of products due to circumstances over
which we have no control,” he explained.
C Continued on page 32 .)


BLEMISHES
F
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and oom-
il Use Cuticura
regularly Its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
£
lexl
ap
r
V
The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop, the
“MARS” Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. All essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - all gear teeth are generated.
d
fd
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
f
I
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Qld. of
“Meeiianitb”
Metals
HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS* 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
Americarij African and Australian ricae
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautijuliy
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY.
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MAKING A NEW GERMANY.
On November 25 the four Foreign
Ministers representing Britain, the U.S.A.,
France and Russia are due to continue in
London their hitherto abortive discus-
sions on the peace for Germany; and
U.S.-Britain —with France ready to join
them —are all set in advance to confront
the expected further Soviet obstruction
tactics with an alternative working plan
of their own.
Under the alternative plan—agreed to
in London in August —a Germany would
be shaped on a pattern vastly different
from that intended in the savagely venge-
ful and economically laughable Morgen-
thau scheme of changing an essentially
industrial country into a dairyfarm, and
also different —pro tem., at least —from
pre-war Germany. The London August
agreement —briefly, to raise production
goals in the U.S.-British combined zone
nearly twice as high as those set for all
of Germany in 1946, or approximately at
the production level of 1936 —was gruffly
“protested” by Russia as contravening
the Berlin (Potsdam) agreement, to which
U.S. officially answered with a hearty
snub: —•
The failure of the Soviet Government to
implement the Berlin agreement has placed on
the United States a heavy financial burden, and
the United States Government is unable to
accept the thesis that nothing can be done to
alleviate the financial burden until the consent
of the Soviet Government has been obtained.
The new U.S.-British policy shows the
strong influence of former U.S. President
Hoover, who stated in advance of it:
Russia and France are taking industrial ex-
ports from their zones which, under the Potsdam
Agreement, would contribute to paying the food
bill in the American and British zones. Thus
we are paying reparations.
In view of violation of the Potsdam Agree-
ment to unify German economy in both Russia
and France, we are surely no longer bound
by that Agreement as to reparations and in-
dustrial policies. We should immediately carry
out the present project of a temporary centralised
German Government over the American and
British zones subject to our military direction.
We might even contemplate a separate peace
with this Government if the next Conference
of Foreign Ministers docs not succeed in more
constructive policies.
We should, in our German zones and in
Japan, suspend the whole concept of “levels
of industry,” placing restrictions upon only a
few specified industries, such as shipping and
aviation.
Mr. Hoover further stated:
There has been announced an American policy
of defending the frontiers of Western civili-
sation. The most vital of these frontiers are
Germany and Japan. If they are lost, all Europe
and the Far East are lost.
The reasons for continuous obstruction by
Russia to every effort which would restore
production have at least some expression in the
Russian press as a method by which the United
States can be bled white by relief measures.
We should wait no longer. Russia will not
make war about it.
Strengthens the West
Against that Hoover view of Russian
tactics, a writer in N.Y. “Times,” de-
scribed as “an authority on American
foreign policy who has recently made a
special study of the economic aspects of
this policy in Europe,” attacks the build-
ing of a strong Germany bn the interest-
ing ground that that is exactly what
Stalin is also working for:
We may yet find a revived Germany an ally
of Russia against us. Russia is certainly work-
ing in that direction. It is very indicative, and
should give us pause, that Russia, while thun-
dering against the efforts of monopoly capital
in America to control the Ruhr, makes no
direct attack upon rebuilding German economy
and was, instead, the first to urge such a
revival. Russia would like nothing better than
to revive Germany under Russian influence.
In this respect Mr. Hoover and Mr. Stalin are
following the same line but with different
motivations.
Be that as it may, the present arrange-
ments in expectation of another Foreign
Ministers’ flop have been widely endorsed
in the U.S. As a merely typical example,
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” commented:
From a purely economic standpoint the
Anglo-American agreement to raise the level
of industry in the German zones under their
control strikes a refreshingly realistic note.
At a time when the whole world is struggling
with grave shortages of all manner of goods
and services, it would be criminal folly to fail
to use the resources in materials, plant and
manpower which are available in Western
Germany. Moreover, the earlier production
levels imposed upon the conquered country
made it necessary for Britain —already wrest-
ling with a most serious economic crisis—and
the United States (confronted with so many
calls on her own resources) to support the
Germans in their zone. The new levels should
permit the American and British zones to pur-
chase food out of exports, while supplying
Europe and the world with much-needed manu-
factures.
“Of course,” the “Herald Tribune”
added, “the Russians object to the whole
proceedings; the Anglo-American pro-
gramme provides for its adaptation to
whatever four-Power agreement may be
reached in London by the Foreign
Chicago "Tribune.”
TOO MANY COOKS, NOBODY EATS.
Ministers, but the Russians are not
pleased with the notion of confronting a
fait accompli at the London meeting,
particularly one which notably strengthens
the West.” *
Separate “Trizonia” Peace
William Henry Chamberlin, as another
typical example of American welcome to
the New Germany proposals, commented
in “Wall-street Journal” that “allowing
Germany sufficient industrial production
to make it self-supporting” must seem
“elementary commonsense” ; it “deserves
praise when one remembers the abysmal
economic follies of the first phase of the
occupation and the hopeless crippling
straitjackets which were prepared for
German industry.” A Washington corres-
pondent of N. Y. “Herald Tribune” sees
present British weakness as a strong spur
in the matter:
The real danger has been that the British
Cabinet, faced with an almost impossible
economic situation, might decide to abandon
Germany, in a sudden frenzy of desperation.
It is to avert such a disaster that American
policy-makers have decided to act before disaster
happens The British have unofficially made
it clear that they cannot afford to support the
dollar drain in Germany beyond the new year,
and probably not beyond December 1.
Stating that “Informally, but clearly,
the French leaders have indicated to
American officials that if the November
Foreign Ministers Conference ends like
its predecessors in weary stalemate, the
French will willinff tn meroe their
French will be willing tomejgQ men
zone with the Anglo-American zone, the
same correspondent reported: —
Thus, barring a miraculous Soviet change of
heart in November, the shape of the German
future is beginning to emerge dimly from the
fog. There will be, for the foreseeable future,
two Germanics. Already the western region
has been dubbed “Trizonia” by the technicians,
A separate peace treaty will be concluded be-
tween the Western Powers and Trizonia, and
a separate Trizonian currency will come into
existence. The frontier of Trizonia will be on
the Elbe, and it will be the main barrier be-
tween the Soviet world and the West. It will
perhaps be fortified, and certainly guarded by
military force, for a very long time to come.
a j- . u
According to World Report the new
U.S.-British planning inemdes an im-
portant food limit to a German recovery
loarlimt Pmwpr efrpnoth •
U •. 8 ■ strength. •
The idea is to turn the Potsdam formula
upside d0wn....t0 utilise most of Western Oer-
many’s industrial capacity, but keep the area
heavily dependent on the rest of the world lor
f°°d. .
An arrangement something like this is almost
inevitable, in fact, if Germany continues to be
split down the middle. There is now little hope
that Russia will co-operate with the three
Western Powers in governing Germany as a
unit. This means that Britain, France and the
U.S. may have no choice but to tie Western
Germany into the Marshall plan for Western
Europe. [Western German production is, in
fact, an integral element in the plan.]
The separation of Western from Eastern
Germany could turn out to be a blessing in
disguise. Under both the Kaiser and Hitler,
Germany was an unbalanced economic unit.
Western Germany was an efficient, prosperous
industrial area. Eastern Germany, where most
of the country’s grain and potatoes came from,
was always heavily subsidised by the West.
Under the proposed alternative to the Pots-
dam formula (of making Germany into a big
farm, with only light industries) armament
plants and industries primarily designed for
war would be ruled out, as they are by the
Potsdam decree. Otherwise, the mines and
factories of Western Germany would be en-
couraged to re-build and produce both for
Germany and for Europe. The farms of
Western Germany would also be urged to pro-
duce, but only the crops suited to the area.
There would be no attempt to make the area
self-sufficient in food. Grain and much of
the meat and fats needed would have to come
from other countries. An efficient industry,
geared up for export, could finance such
imports.
Western Germany thus would follow the
pattern of England, Holland and Belgium. The
reasoning is that, whatever its industrial power,
an area without its own source of food, lacking
in large reserves, never could start a war.
London “Times,” which still clings,
though more and more doubtfully, to the
myth of a possibly co-operative Soviet —
a notion totally abandoned in America —
takes a guarded view of the future shape
of things in Germany:—
It seems clearly probable that the United
States, with the active co-operation of Great
Britain and perhaps with that of France, will
proceed with the establishment of a unified
Western Germany with its political capital in
Frankfurt-on-the-Main. Even if a final break
in four-Power unity were not admitted, and
the quadripartite machinery in Berlin continued
to exist, if not to operate, the prolonged par-
tition of Germany would then be assured. The
45,000,000 Germans who live in the three
western zones would be expected to grow into
the economic and political structure of Western
Europe, and to make this their first duty rather
than the regaining of unity with their 20,000,000
fellow-countrymen who inhabit the eastern zone.
But the map of Germany, as well as every
example in history, cries out against the likeli-
hood of any such revolutionary change. For
over a hundred years the Germans have striven
directly and deliberately for the unity of their
country. Is it likely, and especially after years
of Nazi indoctrination, that they would allow
any thought of moral or legal duty to hinder
their attempt to end a partition for which no
German party or patriot could dare to admit
responsibility? There is indeed every reason
to believe that this new German State would
first and always, and if necessary at any cost
in temporary alliance and ill-conceived
manoeuvre, strive for reunification with the
central and eastern provinces. Upon such
promising soil the worst kind of nationalism
must soon grow strong again, and the wildest
extremism flourish.
Despite all that, the “Times” has no
expectation of the coming conference be-
ing other than a flop: “it would be rash
to suppose” that any one of the Foreign
Ministers “now expects the London con-
ference to produce the kind of agreement
upon which a reunified Germany might
be restored. So slender does the hope of
success now appear that fusion of the
western zones seems no longer accepted
by British and American military Govern-
ment as a counsel almost of despair, but
rather as a fruitful and constructive means
of advance.”
“Refugee’s Revenge”
On that basis, U.S.-Britain —meanwhile
agreed on, among other increases, raising
German steel production to 10,700,000
tons, which is about the figure British ex-
perts put forward at Potsdam, and were
laughed at for it —are ready to proceed
with the remaking of Germany without
Soviet agreement or permission. A
separate peace would then be a foregone
conclusion, with a sudden end to “de-
nazification” and “dismantling.” Ameri-
cans have been strongly urging the end-
ing of “denazification,” on which a strik-
ing article has appeared in N. Y. “New
Leader,” written by Karl Brandt, who
fled Germany as a political exile from
Hitlerism and hence cannot be suspected
of any sympathy for Nazis and their
crimes. Chamberlin comments on the
article in “Wall-street Journal”:
According to Brandt the denazification plan
was shaped by a refugee lawyer named Fritz
Oppenheimer, who conceived the idea of re-
taliating on all Germans who had ever been
even slightly associated with Nazi organisations
the inquisitorial methods by means of which
Hitler undertook to root out victims of his
political and racial prejudices. A formidable
questionnaire was drawn up, with no fewer than
131 questions, every one of which had to be
answered on pain of liability for criminal
prosecution.
This questionnaire pried into every detail
of the individual’s life, asked whether the signer s
grandparents held any title of nobility, de-
manded an exact record of income for the last
15 years. Perhaps its most objectionable feature
was the requirement to denounce any relative
who might have been a member of the Nazi
party or any affiliated organisations.
As a scheme of individual revengq this may
have been ingenious. As a method of ad-
ministering a country which had been reduced
to a subhuman living standard, where all avail-
able forces were needed for the work ot
reconstruction, it was a disastrous blunder.
Professors were purged wholesale from univer-
sities, doctors were forbidden to practise in a
disease-ridden country, railway workers were
dismissed at a time of acute transport crisis.
A most unfortunate result of this wholesale
purge, which seems likely to drag on for many
years, is the creation of a hard bitter core ot
individuals who are debarred from any employ-
ment except manual labor and who are psy-
chologically conditioned either for an extremely
embittered form of nationalism or for Com-
munism. Denazification, as practised under
American pressure, has often led to renazihca-
tion.
Regarding “dismantling,” the number
of plants listed for reparations in the


Safeguard the future
... of your family
. ; . by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your "entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he has these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and combine the first-hand personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W.
ADDRESS; 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
.PEKHANEBCE,
Board of Directors
A. E. Bond,
Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
F. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Faviell
Manager:
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Mgr.;
C. N. P. Whittle
Angus & Robertson’s Book
GALLOPING WHEELS, by Will Lawson. This is a story
railways, a book to Interest all Boys and Girls.
72 ESSAYS, by Walter Murdoch. A selection.
UNPUBLISHED POEMS OF SHAW NEILSON.
Edited by James Devaney.
TRY ANYTHING ONCE, by Frank Clune. New edition.
THE MAN IN BROWN. A novel by Maurice Walsh.
THE TALE OF BENJAMIN BUMBLE, by D. H. Gilmore,
for children, with charming illustrations.
Available at all Booksellers.
Selection
of the romance of
8/6 (post 4d.).
12/6 (post 6cL).
7/6 (post 3d.).
7/6 (post 4d.).
8/6 (post 4d.).
A delightful book
6/- (post 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
U.S.-British section has been cut from
the previous 1636 to 682, and many of
these would have had to stand idle in
any case. The decision to dismantle the
much smaller number of plants springs
directly from the decision to raise the
level of industry. As a London “limes
correspondent has summed it up:
The British and American authorities soon
found that the level of industry in their com-
bined zone was too low. Even a united Ger-
many could hardly exist at such a level, and
certainly the western zones could not exist
when they were largely cut off from the eastern
zone and were forced to import food and raw
materials at high prices from abroad. To make
the zones eventually self-supporting the British
and American authorities fixed a new level of
industry geared to a steel production of
10,700,000 tons a year. More factories were
accordingly needed for the German economy,
and fewer were available for reparations. That,
in brief, is the economic background to the
new list.
Another “Times” correspondent has re-
ported that there will be an end of
attempts “to refashion Western Germany
into a new political image,” which must
now make way for “practical measures
of reconstruction. The socialises and
decartellisers may expect to be displaced
by experts in management and produc-
tion, with the uninhibited aim of raising
output.” Since the “socialises” all along
have been the British, the new Western
Germany can fairly be labelled: Made
in U.S.A.
VENDETTA IN GREECE.
With his usual devastating strength of
accurate information, London “Nine-
teenth Century and After” editor F. A.
Voigt, in a series of articles, has exposed
that Communist-colored version of hap-
penings in Greece which gets a remark-
able presentation in cables. The follow-
ing extract is from his fourth, concluding,
article:
If we consider that in Palestine 100,000 British
troops are needed to defend the existing order
against some 4000 of the Irgun and abouU2oo
of the Stern Gang, we shall begin to realise
what an undertaking it must be for 100,000
Greek regulars and 30,000 gendarmes to deal
with some 12,000 armed bandits in a larger
and much more difficult country. Many scat-
tered communities have no protection at all.
When the law cannot protect, men will protect
themselves. The “vendetta” or “blood feud,”
which died out between the two wars, revived
in Greece during the Second World War. Last
summer, before the massacre at Skra, murders
committed by Communists only slightly out-
numbered murders committed by loyalists in
reprisal. Many murders were purely personal
—vengeance being taken by friends or relatives
of murdered persons irrespective of political
opinion.
Nevertheless there is no comparison, for
abundance or for cruelty, or for destructiveness,
between the deeds perpetrated by Loyalists and
those perpetrated by the “bandits.” The latter
are incomparably worse. The massacres per-
petrated all over Greece in December, 1944,
and those, far less numerous but not less
fiendish, that began with the murder of 33
men, women and children at Skra, have no
counterpart in Greece. Indeed, they are un-
Hellenic in character and combine the ruthless-
ness in the taking of life that characterises the
Communist International jvhere it has the power,
with certain particular cruelties that reveal the
Slav-Macedonian influence in the Greek re-
bellion.
If the “bandits” are quelled, and as the
rule of law is fully re-established, the Loyalist
bands will disappear, though it will be a long
time, several years, perhaps, before the “ven-
detta” is wholly suppressed. The GreekJState,
if it succeeds in extirpating armed sedition
(which it must do at any cost), will have to
make a difficult decision with regard to the
future of the Greek Communist party. , Ex-
perience has shown —abundantly—that the party,
when it has suffered defeat, accepts the con-
stitutional order only so as to recover and
re-organise in secret and prepare armed sedition
afresh. This it can do the more easily because
it can transfer its cadres to Yugoslavia, Bul-
garia or Albania, where they will be safe from
molestation. If the Greek Government com-
plains to the Powers, the party can always
count on the diplomatic support of Russia
and her dependants.
There can be no real security for Greece
against armed sedition, civil war, massacre, and,
indeed, the loss of independence, unless her
three northern neighbors and their patron,
Russia, are made to understand that inter-
ference, whether direct or indirect, in Greek
internal affairs will not be tolerated. The fate
of Greece depends, ultimately, upon the relations
between Washington, London and Moscow.
And on the fate of Greece, Voigt
clearly shows, the fate of much more
depends. For “the Greek crisis is no
special case, but a manifestation of the
general European crisis.” The so-called
“bandits” (popular-press euphemism for
the Soviet-directed mixture of Greek and
Balkan Communists) “are the Communist
International in action.”
It is their purpose to overthrow the existing
order, to replace it by a Communistic order,
and to enlarge the Balkan Federation, so that
Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Albania, Macedonia and
Greece (that is to say, what would remain of
Greece after the forced secession of Macedonia)
would form a Federation of Balkan Soviet
Republics under indirect Russian sovereignty,
to be reinforced, later on, by a Soviet Republic
of the Straits under direct Russian sovereignty.
It was to promote this -Federation that the
Greek and Bulgarian Communist parties nego-
tiated an agreement nearly four years ago.
This Federation is the raison d’etre of Marshal
Tito’s dictatorship. Its ultimate purpose is to
transform south-eastern Europe into an
operational base for the conquest of the Middle
East. This conquest will be pursued by
political, conspiratorial and subversive action
(and, whenever circumstances are favorable, by
local armed action). There is a Russian coalition,
strong enough, by comparison with the United
States and Great Britain, to engage in general
belligerency.
Greek independence obstructs the advance of
Russia into the Middle East. It is, therefore,
vital to the Anglo-American defensive system.
The Greek army and gendarmes are today fight-
ing for their country, for the integrity of the
Middle Eastern countries, and for the security
of Great Britain and of the United States.
FRENZIED FINANCE.
Occupation money having to be created
—that is, printed—the American authori-
ties prepared sets of plates. Somebody
in Washington—nobody there seems eager
to take the credit —apparently suggested
that, to have everything shipshape and
in accord with the grand Allied unity,
sets should be given to the other occupa-
tion parties. The British and French
have faithfully accounted for every mark
they printed; with the Russians it has
been somewhat different.
The Russians started the printed presses
going, and nobody knows how many
billions of the marks they turned out.
In reply to repeated American protests
and demands to have the plates returned,
the Russians a month or two back gave
their word that they were not printing
any more. But even if they have stopped
the presses, they don’t say, and still no-
body—-probably not even themselves—
knows how many of the phony marks
they have distributed or have on hand.
To the Russians it was so much money
from heaven. They used the printed
marks for paying their occupation troops
—dues stated to be as much as three
years in arrears. Then, a N.Y. “Journal-
American” correspondent reported from
Berlin, “The impoverished Russian
soldiers, suddenly enriched, swarmed out
over Germany with gobs of bright new
military marks in their hands, prepared
to buy the works. They began one of
the most amazing ‘buying sprees’ ever
recorded”:
As the marks were paid out to the Russian
troops they were told that this money could not
be sent to Russia. The soldier must go out
and spend it in Germany. He went out and
bought right and left. He bought the very
shoes off an American G.l.’s feet for a fabulous
price.
The American soldier quickly found that for
a wrist watch costing perhaps $2O, the Russian
would pay him 10,000 marks. So the G.I. sold
and rushed to his finance office, where he found
that he could cash in these marks at the legal
rate of 10 cents. For his $2O wrist watch he
now had 1000 good American dollars. This is
not fantastic. It happened on a grand scale.
These frenzied transactions continued on an
incredible scale until the United States finally
found itself with immense sums of military
reichsmarks for which it had paid but good
American dollars, which the American G.I.
financier was banking back home.
The smarter Russians on the top levels
bought more valuable things than a watch at
10,000 marks or American cigarettes at $lOO a
carton. They bought real estate. Beautiful
houses in Berlin suburbs, undamaged by war,
have been pointed out to me. Russians now
own them. They were bought with the reichs-
marks printed on Uncle Sam’s generously be-
stowed engraved plates. *
Estimates vary on the amount the
American Government will find itself
“stuck” with over these transactions. The
figure ranges in some publications much
higher than the $250,000,000 guess of the
“United States News.”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Triumph for Democracy. —As reported by
London “Times,” a former Prime Minister
of Japan, and a Japanese Imperial prince at
that, Prince Higashikuni, is now a grocer. One
thing that might stand to him in his new
role—going by'under-the-counter practice else-
where—is that it was he who, in August, 1945,
ordered the Japs “to conceal all materials likely
to be of value to the Allies” in the event of
“Time and Tide,” London.
MAKE WEST, YOUNG MAID.
[ln last week’s voting in the politically-
decided French Municipal elections General'de
Gaulle’s party, Rally of the French People,
attracted a most distinct rally to the General’s
anti-Communist platform, the party winning
twice as many seats as the next largest party
and about six times as many as the Communists.
Warranting General de Gaulle’s demand for a
dissolution of Parliament, so that the same issue
could be tested on the higher level, the elections
marked a significant victory not only for De
Gaulle but for the Western European recovery
plans backed and buttressed by America; hence
a severe defeat for the Soviet delay-and-
destruction tactics. It produced the most favor-
able reactions in America, strengthening the
Truman-Marshall position as Congress was
called for its special session to consider urgent
aid to Western Europe.\
occupation. But, apart from rice, what does
a Japanese grocer sell?
* * * *
Low Cost of Atom. Commenting that
“Total destruction will be on the bargain
counter soon,” N. Y. “World-Telegram” states
in support: “Dr. J. R. Oppenheimer, one of
the great scientists who put the atom bomb
together, says ordinary explosives cost us about
$lO a pound f.o.b. the enemy. That’s 50,000
tons for $1,000,000,000. ‘lt seems certain,’
he says, ‘that with atom bombs such costs might
be several hundred times less, possibly even a
thousand times less.’ ” The paper quotes
General Arnold, who headed the U.S. Army
Air Force, as stating: “A dollar’s worth of
atom bombs did $3OO worth of damage, and
the best T.N.T. bombs could do was $50.”
* * * *
“Poison Squads.” Former U.S. President
Hoover takes a rosy view and coins a descrip-
tive term': “Russia’s obstructionist tactics do
not constitute a substantial threat to the peace.
The free nations of the world can ma£e their
own peace and can subjugate her international
poison squads.”
* * * #
German Scientists Help U.S. —Curious report
by a North American Newspaper Alliance cor-
respondent: “Nearly 100 German scientists,
spurred on by the hope of an ultimate revenge
on Russia, are working untiringly at Wright
and Patterson army airfields to help the Army
Air Force plan its sky fleets of the future.
At the big research and experimental base near
Dayton, Ohio, the scientists who helped forge
Hitler’s war machine have become an integral
part of the A.A.F.’s development programme.
T wish we had more of them,’ said one army
officer at Wright. ‘They are wonderful
workers.’ Distributed throughout the field’s
many activities, which include all phases of
aeronautical research, the Germans can be seen
bending over their desks and work benches
all day long with an absorption which seems
just a little bit short of fanatic. Officers who
have talked with them have received various
answers as to why they volunteered to leave
the Reich for the U.S. The underlying thought
in almost all their minds, however, is that by
their efforts the Soviet will one day be defeated.
The German scientists seem to think it a fore-
gone conclusion that Russia and the United
States will fight.”
* * * *
Poles Guessed Wrong. —A special correspon-
dent in “Christian Science Monitor” has re-
ported that when the “Marshall plan” was first
announced Poles thought the Kremlin would
agree to their participating; that they would
be considered useful as a bridge between Russia
and the West. “Even 48 hours before the
Government’s decision to reject the invitation,
Warsaw political circles —including some Cabinet
members—were convinced Poland would accept.
Advisers and experts who usually accompany
Ministers to such conferences actually were
packing their trunks for Paris. But this was
not to b'e. Russia turned out to be far more
determined than its alleged enemies and its
friends had thought. Hence the bitter dis-
appointment, silent and hidden, in Poland to-
day.”
« * * >0
Socialistic Experiments. —Analysing in N.Y.
“Journal-American” the present fancy for cen-
tralised State Socialism, former president of
the University of California Maj.-Gen. David
P. Barrows sums it up as a product of popular
fear, “the fear in peoples that their own
capacity is insufficient and that they cannot
raise themselves again except by submitting to
public authority.” The writer expresses a
prevalent U.S. view of Britain and elsewhere
in adding: “They lack faith in themselves.
They will not venture. They will no longer
work hard, for men will only work hard for
themselves. The socialistic experiments now
going on in Europe, and this includes Great
Britain, will have stern lessons for peoples to
consider in the end. In most cases it threatens
disaster. The world can only be saved today
by hard work, by long hours, by sweat, by
fatigue, by sacrifice, by pinching, by saving
wherever saving is possible. But men and
women will not do so much as this if they
are mere employees in a State machine,”
« * * «
Swiss Merchant Navy! Airing a heartfelt
grouch on Uncle Sam’s wholesale parting with
his merchant ships, U.S. Maritime Commis-
sioner McKeough instances that “landbound
little Switzerland is now operating 10 cargo
carriers in ocean trade in competition with
America.” Out of a total of 950 American
ships offered for sale in March this year, 620
went under foreign flags. Since then foreign
shipping interests have bought in the U.S.
363 Liberty ships, 85 Victory ships, 50 tankers
and 122 smaller vessels. “We have created
maritime nations where none existed before,”
states Mr. McKeough ruefully.
* * * *
U.S. Policy 124 Years Old. —Dipping deep
into U.S. history, Sir Norman Angell lights on
“the significant fact that the form it is now
proposed to give to the Monroe Doctrine [ e.,
the Truman-Marshall policy] was regarded
favorably by Monroe himself; was urged still
more definitely by his predecessor in the
Presidency, Madison, and was implicit in advice
preferred to Monroe by still another ex-
President, Thomas Jefferson.” Noting this in
a N.Y. “Times” letter, Sir Norman comments:
“It has thus taken a century and a quarter to
put into political practice a principle which
three American Presidents one of them the
author of the Declaration of Independence,
another having led his country into war against
Great Britain —were disposed to approve in
1823. If the form those elder statesmen favored
had been adopted in their time, instead of 124
years later, many wars, including probably two
world wars, might have been avoided and
civilisation might be in better shape than it
happens to be at the moment.”
* h= * *
The Overworked Dollar. —As summarised by
“United States News”: “U.S. dollar is being
asked to carry too much of a load, is getting
a bit groggy, weak in the knees, under strain
of the job it is asked to do. The dollar is
expected to give people in U.S. everything they
want. It then is expected to bolster living
standards for 250,000,000 or so Europeans.
After that it is counted on to help Turks,
Chinese, Iranians and many others. No wonder
the dollar wobbles, loses purchasing power. It’s
overworked. Just to show what’s happening to
the U.S. dollar; People in U.S. count on the
dollar to give them all the beefsteak, new cars,
new houses, butter, eggs, everything in the
quantity desired. Government uses the dollar
to try to take away from people in U.S. some
of the things they would like to have in order
to send them to people abroad. People in
Europe, and elsewhere, expect the dollar to
supply them with five-day weeks, adequate
diets, more social security, lots of other things.
It’s fine if it can be done. Only dollar buys
less as goods get short.”


fl THE HALLMARK OF QUALITY
mm
m
mmmi
PURE AUSTRALIAN
VIRGIN WOOL
YARRA
FALLS
LIMITED
cM an u Facture rs oF
. FINE WORSTEDS
ABBOTSFORD,
VICTORIA,
AUSTRALIA
N?.'
liliS
:
s ; xVv * \ % ' . - •• %
va> »*\.
, __
iuj* —,.v—fiscLMS
■


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3534
Wednesday, November S, 1947
CALLING MR. CAIN.
“Daddy!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
VICTORIA'S OPPORTUNITY.
Prom the outset of the three weeks’ cam-
paign in Victoria the Liberal and Country
parties have held the initiative. “Labor”
never had any reasonable hope of limit-
ing the issues to one of purely State con-
cern, the action of the Legislative Council
in challenging the Cain Ministry. The
Opposition parties, with overwhelming
public endorsement, have made the
Socialist Banking Bill at Canberra the
cause on which the election will turn next
Saturday. That is proved now beyond
all doubt.
It is proved by the liveliest public in-
terest in any Assembly election that
modern politicians can remember. Meet-
ings, especially those of the Opposition
parties’ candidates, have been so thronged
as to recall to Mr. Menzies the rallies of
old time. Electors of both sexes have
been stirred from the Murray to the sea.
Two citizens’ organisations, the Peoples’
Freedom Movement, headed by the Lord
Mayor of Melbourne, and the Victorian
League of Rights, formed “to fight
socialism and regimentation,” have been
arousing spectacular public support in
their own campaign to expose the dangers
of the Chifley Government’s legislation.
Against this demonstration of popular
feeling the “Labor” party’s attempt to
steer the debate on to topics of purely
State concern has been a complete failure.
If anything were wanting to clinch the
matter, the local Communist party, whose
president is standing for Port Melbourne
—where the party hopes to get a water-
front vote sufficient to admit of its brag-
ging of what it could have done in other
electorates had it tried —called Mr. Cain
into line. From his platform there the
president jeered at the Premier and his
“parrot-like denials”:
Mr. Cain appears to be blind, deaf and
dumb on the banking issue. He has been
intimidated by the propaganda of the
Liberal party. Main industries will have
to be nationalised after the banks.
Comrade Sharkey, general president of
the Communist conspiracy, backed this
up from the same platform by saying
“This [banking bill] is only the commence-
ment, but a very important commence-
ment, the most important ever taken by
the Labor movement here. Because or
this, we are throwing our weight behind
the Labor-party candidates.”
So much being clear, the Opposition
parties have been spurred to their utmost
efforts. A victory for the Cain Ministry
next Saturday would be hailed by
“Labor” throughout Australia as a Vic-
torian endorsement for the Chifley bill,
and for full-speed-ahead in the socialisa-
tion of all industry. A “Labor” defeat
would correspondingly so fortify the
Liberal-Country party stand against the
Chifley Government that steps would
thereupon be taken to establish the extent
of the public resentment oyer the widest
possible area of the Australian electorate.
After an emphatic “No” vote in Vic-
toria, the Chifley Government could not
be allowed to proceed with its measure
as though nothing had happened. The
course foreshadowed is that Governments
in Victoria, S.A. and Westralia will co-
operate in organising State referenda to
test wider feeling on the Banking Bill. It
has even been suggested that the Tas-
manian Ministry, which just scraped back
last year, will be forced to choose be-
tween a referendum and an election.
The line of appeal taken by the, Vic-
torian Opposition parties is an amplifi-
cation of these simple theses, to which no
“Labor” speaker, Federal or State, has
yet attempted any answer. Said Mr.
Holloway for the Liberals, Mr. Mc-
Donald coinciding:
Once Mr. Chifley; obtains control of the
individual savings of every citizen, he will
have control of the private life of every
citizen.
Although in the Federal Parliament this
interpretation of the Chifley plan is de-
scribed as nonsense by “Labor” speakers
—the Prime Minister gave the lead in that
line and his party has followed it —
in the open debate on the election plat-
form not one “Labor” speaker. Federal
or State, has attempted to answer it.
The only response is from “Labor’s”
embarrassing Communist allies, who
endorse the Opposition’s outline of the
plan but add that the denial of freedom
entailed will be good for Australians.
How many Victorians agree in thinking
so wifi be shown by next Saturday’s yot-
ing. The old, bold Australian spirit of
individualism has run to seed a lot in
cities, although even there the fanatics
for regimenting everything and everybody
are numbered chiefly among those who
hope to do the bossing and to distribute
the loot. But country people, mindful of
the fact mentioned by the “Age” in a
startled sentence (“Melbourne has six of
every ten Victorians”), and mindful also
of the general cause, are aroused as they
have not been for many a long year.
The last straw upon the burdens im-
posed on country people by city poli-
ticians is the realisation that “the city
crowd” is now trying to fasten
socialisation on them without a mandate.
They know, none better, the messes that
Governments have made with control of
apples and pears, eggs, milk, wheat and
everything else the bureaucrats have
touched. They have seen their wheat col-
lared by this Federal “Labor” Govern-
ment and sold for years ahead to New
Zealand at Jess than one-third of the
current market price, and the only
apology expressed is the excuse that a
Minister and his experts “guessed wrong.”
Farmers were paid not to grow wheat be-
cause the same gang “guessed wrong” in
that too ; and they guessed wrong again
this year when the farm areas turned up
a bumper crop, and the whole centralised
guessing organisation in Canberra went
into a panic, having been caught short of
bags.
It is the farmers’ wheat and butter and
meat that “Labor” has been “controlling”
so far; now, under the Chifley bill, it is
to be his money, his overdraft, his mort-
gage if he has one, his every relation with
his banker. For, after all the blither from
Canberra about “public control of credit
facilities,” whose money is it that Mr.
Chifley wants to take control of when
he socialises the banks? Is it not money
belonging to depositors which they
placed in those banks, or is it something
about which, thinking they own it, they
suffer some distressing illusion? “Why
did you put your money in the bank?”
asked one speaker at a meeting. “Was it
not so that when you wanted all or any
of it, you could go and draw it? Well,
Mr. Chifley is now ‘taking it over’ —for
your good, he says. Are you quite sure
that when you go up to a Government
official to draw it you will be able to rely
on your right to have it?”
This socialisation sounds to some
people all right until the “pushing
around” begins. “Labor” was never more
uncertain —not to say afraid —of the elec-
tors as in this crisis. Even some civil
servants —and “Labor” counts a great
deal on their vast numbers and their
docile support —are not so servile as they
are supposed to be. The teachers at the
Auburn Central and Chelsea schools
have each published widely their protests,
signed in a body, against an advertise-
ment issued by the Victorian Teachers’
Union, seeking teachers’ “active sup-
port” of Government candidates.
So enormously important is the Vic-
torian vote that, outside that State, at
any rate, uncertainty will remain till the
numbers go up. But there is nothing un-
certain in the mood of spectators on the
sidelines in every other State. They
envy Victoria its opportunity of denounc-
ing this monstrous legislation.
Churchill Resurgent.
One of the agreeable developments of
these anxious times, and all the more
agreeable because unexpected, is the re-
turn of Mr. Churchill to top form.
One of the effects is shown in the
smashing defeat of “Labor” in the Eng-
lish and Welsh borough elections.
Electioneering in July, 1945, the leader
in glorious wars which brought victory
at a terrific price looked and spoke like
a worn-out old man. Very probably the
overstrain palpable in his appearance and
manner and the querulous speeches in
which he turned on men who had been
his close associates in the national Gov-
ernment for five years cost his party
many votes. They must have produced
the impression—as newsreels of his pro-
gress through the constituencies certainly
did in this country —that his Govern-
ment, if returned, would have to get a
new leader long before the expiry of the
Parliament about to be elected; and no-
body could say who would succeed him
or what his successor would do. It might
be a Chamberlain man like Sir John
Anderson, Mr. Stanley or Mr. Butler;
and the brisk young Reds and Pinks of
the press who were for intervention every-
where, intervention without preparation-
many of these imbeciles are now “Labor”
back-benchers —had been all too success-
ful in persuading the electors that Cham-
berlain men were all Guilty Men.
Current Churchill newsreels, speeches
and articles tell a very different story.
Like Gladstone in 1885, when the
G.O.M. “came back to power for the
third time at the age of 76, and entered
with unquenchable ardor on the most
astonishing period of his career,” Mr.
Churchill, at just on 73, seems to have
taken a new lease of life. Only a man
whose powers are unimpaired could do
what he is doing as leader of the Opposi-
tion and chairman of the Conservative
organisation (itself an arduous post) and
say what he is saying on all manner of
subjects, from the condition of Europe
under Communism and makeshift com-
promises to the condition of Britain under
socialism and the condition of the Em-
pire, which the socialists are giving away
piecemeal. Whether he lifts his voice or
takes up his pen, no opponent can hold
a candle to him in argument. Stalin,
Molotov, Vishinsky, Attlee, Morrison,
Shinwell —he knocks them down one by
one. He sees his way through every
question and irradiates it as none of his
contemporaries can.
If full employment were all-in-all, as is
asserted by our tribulations in Australia,
Britain should be the envy of the world,
for Britain has it. But it is full employ-
ment with crazy socialism and crazy
socialist finance and poor production,
chiefly of the commodity most required ;
“result, misery,” on which misery is to
be piled. During the war Lord Woolton,
one of those Chamberlain men, was care-
ful to see that the nation was sufficiently,
if frugally, fed. Beggarly by comparison,
and dangerous according to dietitians, is
the new weekly ration, announced, along
with other deadly deprivations, by the
Minister of Economic Affairs, Sir Stafford
Cripps; and the, comparison is sub-
joined :
Woolton Week. Cripps Week.
Meat 1/2 to 1/6 Is.
Fats Boz. 7oz.
Cheese 3oz. 2oz.
Bacon 4oz. loz.
Bread Unrationed 4-jlb.
Tea 2 to 2ioz. 2oz.
Milk 2 to 2±pts. Hpts.
Potatoes, never rationed during the
war, are to be “controlled.” And the
war-time soap ration has been reduced
25 per cent.
“An important and courageous speech,”
said Mr. Churchill with fine irony when
the Minister had finished prescribing
austerity in larger doses. “It proclaims
the failure of the whole policy of plan-
ning and peace-time management of in-
dustry.”
Sir Stafford Cripps calls for a new spirit
of unity in bearing new national sacrifices
so that he may continue with greater vigor
the socialistic experiments which have
already made our economic survival doubt-
ful. Mr. Attlee intends to nationalise the
iron and steel industries as a contribution
to industrial recovery and to establish
single-chamber government as a stimulus
to national unity.
The Government’s policy of equalising
misery and organising scarcity, instead of
allowing diligence to produce abundance,
has only to be prolonged to kill this island
stone dead.
Had the Conservatives an alternative?
Yes; a return to “the high level of eco j
nomic production under free enterprise,”
which “State control cannot approach.”
A recourse to “personal initiative, com-
petitive selection and the profit motive,
corrected by failure and personal inge-
nuity,” which “constitute the life of a
free society.” For “nationalisation has
proved a failure ; dear food and coal,
and soon dearer transport, have weakened
Britain’s competitive powers in foreign
markets ; we are not able to earn a living
in the world because we are not allowed.”
Exports? It was “right to emphasise
them; but exports are only the steam
over the boiling water in the kettle: no
long-term scheme for keeping a vast
community alive can be based upon ex-
port trade} alone.” If the Conservatives
were in, what would they do? —
Establish a basic standard of life and
labor and provide the necessary basic food
for all. Then set the people free. Get
out of the way and let them all make the
best of themselves and win whatever prizes
they can for their families and their
country.
To Mr. Herbert Morrison all this was
“dreadfully reactionary,” but it laid
down the only policy for British recovery
and restated the only principles suited to
the genius of the English-speaking race,
abandoning which no English-speaking
community can prosper and remain free.
Having said enough in a grave mood,
Mr. Churchill struck with impish de-
light at Mr, Shin well’s successor, Mr.
Gaitskell, “a representative of socialist
intellectualism and the Old School Tie.”
With coal production getting worse in-
stead of better—as is the case everywhere
when a Communist is at the head of the
almighty union—Mr. Gaitskell had been
moved to recommend the people to take
fewer baths. “I have never had a great
many myself,” burbled the fatuous doc-
trinaire, “and I can assure those who
are in the habit of having a great many
that it does not make a great difference
to their health if they do not. As to their
appearance, most of that is underneath
and nobody sees it.” On which Mr.
Churchill commented, bringing the House
down:
When Ministers of the Crown speak like
this the Prime Minister and his friends
have no need to wonder tfhy they are
getting into increasingly bad odor. I even
asked myself, when meditating oh these
points, whether you, Mr. Speaker, would
admit the word “lousy” as a Parliamentary
expression in referring to the Administra-
tion, provided, of course, it was not in-
tended in a contemptuous sense, but purely
as one of factual narration.
In a sense removed from “factual
narration” all Labor-socialist Govern-
ments are lousy when they inflict their
lousy Mad-Continent doctrines on free
peoples. And considering what, with un-
surpassed opportunities of promoting
national unity and welfare, the crowd in
office at Canberra has done and left un-
done, and what it proposes in the way
of making Australia a rotten imitation
of a Soviet State, at least on the financial
side, we have the lousiest of the lot in
this country.
A Minister of the Crown!
Among Mr. Cain’s election liabilities is
Mr. W. P. Barry, his no-Housing
Minister.
Two years ago Mr. Barry had a Com-
munist opponent in his electorate of
Carlton, the engaging Dr. O’Day. It
must have taken an electric crane to pick
up Dr. O’Day from the precincts of the
electoral office and deposit him in a place
where he couldn’t nominate, but the
deed was done, the Moscow party having
decided to throw its support to Mr.
Barry. Along with a lot of other Catho-
lic “Labor” politicians, Mr. Barry has
been placed on Moscow’s exemption list,
partly, perhaps, because he has bitterly
attacked three returned-soldier Liberals.
One of the three is Archie Michaelis,
member for St. Kilda since 1932. A
native of St. Kilda, Mr. Michaelis en-
listed in 1914 and served throughout the
war which began in that year. For very
properly objecting to the manner and
matter of a “speech” in which Mr. Barry
alleged that the banks had paid the costs
of the Melbourne City Council’s success-
ful intervention in the High Court case
on the compulsory transfer of accounts
to the Commoliwealth Bank, and in which
he referred to Mr. Oldham (Malvern) as
“a sissy” and offered to kiss him, Mr.
Michaelis was branded by the Minister as
“the St. Kilda refugee.” Mr. Oldham
objecting, Mr. Barry barked “What is
St. Kilda whispering about now?” “I
don’t want to talk to larrikins,” said Mr.
Michaelis ; “and I don’t want to talk to
‘reflfos’” was the Barry retort.
Another of Mr. Barry’s aversions is
Mr. R. B. Hamilton, the member for
Toorak, a 14th Battalion veteran of the
First World War. An architect by pro-
fession, Mr. Hamilton, like Mr. S. H.
Lang, Mr. Barry’s present opponent,
who, as Director of Building and
Materials Procurement, was in the best
position to size up Barry administration,
has been a pertinacious critic of Mr
Barry’s no-housing performances, in
respect of servicemen especially, while
allowing that Mr. Barry has a fine house
of his own and has sanctioned the build-
ing of other fine houses in fashionable
suburbs.
Long exposed to Barry threats,
Mr. Hamilton was served with an
election-campaign summons charging
him with “having assisted in carrying
out a building operation at Lilydale not
authorised by the Minister” —Mr. Barry.
The alleged offence was committed in
1945-46. At the same time a hotelkeeper
who said he had “refused to pay Hamil-
ton’s fees” was fined £2O for having con-
travened the building regulations. Hear-
ing of the charge against Mr. Hamilton
was postponed until after the election.
The third returned soldier whom Mr.
Barry has honored with his enmity is
Colonel Kent Hughes, member for K
who has given ten years of his adult lire
to service in the King’s uniform. He en-
listed for his second war at 45—Mr.
Barry was then 40, and the Barry war
record is a blank. Colonel Kent Hughes
Mr. Barry described as “a soulless, spine-
less Fascist,” adding, with a character-
istic Bouverie-street touch, that ‘ a tew
years in the Japanese camps did not do
him much good.” This was too much tor
returned servicemen of both wars and
Prisoner-of-war Relatives, who hold
Colonel Kent Hughes in high honor tor
his work for fellow-captives in Changi
camp. Protests poured in.
Pointedly reminded that there are
many Jews in his .electorate, Mr. Barry
apologised to the Jewish community,
though not to the Old Digger whoin he
insulted so vilely. He also apologised in
his way to the R.S.L. —he had been taxe
by the League with “another vile state-
ment,” that “young men who died over-
seas would not have been in their graves
today had they been able to find jobs a
home.” But his way of apologising was
to repeat the lie, first minted by Mr. Cai-
well, that many of those “from Carlto
and elsewhere” who thronged the re-
cruiting camps in the spring and summer
of 1939 enlisted primarily because tney
wanted jobs, not because they wanted to
fight for their country.
And this low-minded and foul-mouthe
political lout is a Minister of the Crown.
Yes, a Minister of the Crown!.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Alexander MacCormick.
These words are devoted to the memory
of a man to whom, in the course of two
generations, many Australians of both
sexes owed their lives and many more
the recovery of their health.
Poor in boyhood, Alexander MacCor-
mick turned to good account the passion
for education, nobly endowed, which has
always distinguished the Scottish people.
He had no easy passage' to Edinburgh
University, and he was 24 when he gradu-
ated M B. At 27 he came to Sydney, and
thenceforward for 48 years he accumu-
lated honors and distinctions. He served
the Empire in three wars, in the second
of which his elder son fell at Loos, fight-
ing as a lieutenant in the Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders—he himself was
born in Taynish, Argyllshire.
For many years Alexander MacCormick
was recognised as the greatest surgeon in
Australia, and one of the greatest in the
English-speaking world. To the service of
suffering humanity, rich and poor alike,
he brought an iron nerve and an almost
magical skill. Powerful in mind and body,
he never let a patient down by any weak-
ness on his part. He took care to be in
perfect shape always, and he was known
to rebuke a doctor who lit a cigarette to
relieve the strain of an operation. The
profession did not resent such manifes-
tations of the Covenanting spirit. It ad-
mired and respected MacCormick im-
mensely, and extolled his work, the in-
struction he gave and the example he set.
It said of him that he could operate on
anyone for anything operable, with unsur-
passed knowledge and care. By a cruel
stroke of fate a greatly-loved member of
his family died of inoperable cancer.
Over half a century “Dr. MacCormick
will take the case” was a message of
cheer in many thousands of homes. Very
often it was “Dr. MacCormick will
operate first thing in the morning and
there will be nothing to pay.” No sur-
geon of his time performed a greater
number of operations or had a greater
measure of success. At 75 he laid down
the knife for ever, retiring to Jersey —
not to avoid taxes, as was meanly alleged
(taxation on his Australian income he
could not avoid), but to spend his de-
clining years in an agreeable part of his
native land, the pull of which he always
felt. Retiring, he gave his Sydney hospital,
the Terraces, together with adjoining land
and £25,000, to the Presbyterian Church.
Alexander MacCormick married a Syd-
ney girl who was his gracious helpmate
for 52 years. She, with a son and two
daughters, survives him. Naturally, the
news of his death did not inspire the
“Parliament” sitting in the city in which
he wrought to set on record any apprecia-
tion of his majestic and merciful career.
“Parliament” was concerned with other
matters, notably a debate on the dis-
qualification of a racing crowd, ending
with a “Labor” publican’s passionate plea
for the appointment of a District Court
Judge to decide gambling disputes or
something of the sort.
Playford's Challenge.
Tom Playford, of South Australia, is the
first champion to enter the lists against
the crowd at Canberra with notice of a
challenge to the Chifley Banking Bill so
soon as it receives G.-G. McKell’s assured
consent. There will be others to follow in
a variety of causes concerned with viola-
tion of the Constitution or special injury,
ranging from impairment of the States’
rights under the Federal compact (as in
S.A.’s notice of intention) to the assailing
of individual freedom.
Mr. Chifley, who can no longer main-
tain sangfroid in silence as he formerly
did—his party is much too disturbed by
the prospects, particularly in Victoria —
comments on the S.A- Premier’s an-
nouncement that he is not surprised ; he
expected the challenge to come. His role
before his party is that he “has all the
tickets” ; has foreseen everything. Pos-
sibly he has, but it has not made for con-
fidence, however bold a face he may
present to the clamor of public resent-
ment arising on all sides. For he included
a special clause in the bill seeking to pro-
vide that if any feature of the legislation
shall be successfully challenged as ultra
vires the Constitution, the defect shall
not impair the rest of it.
This proviso flatly refutes the air of
righteous confidence in procedure that
Mr. Chifley and party affect. The P.M.
should know that the whole business is
unconstitutional in many respects as well
as undemocratic in his refusal either to
consult electoral opinion or even to recog-
nise the manifested public feeling in
opposition to the bill. The vast majority
of the Australian people are behind the S.A.
Premier’s challenge, and no doubt Mr.
Playford’s State, and other States, too, will
in due course test the public’s verdict as
well as the judgment of the High Court.
“Lkbor” is palpably doubtful of the
case it can present before either of these
tribunals. If it means to stake everything
on ‘ the supposed willingness of the Aus-
tralians to accept any imposition of
tyranny, then it will wreck itself with
the most hearty approval of the majority
of the electors.
Birds on the Wing.
Our Foreign Policy has again “changed
its plumage in mid-flight,” the peerless
expression of Mr. Paul Hasluck.
One change occurred when Dr, Evatt
essayed ineffectually to smooth over the
ill-feeling caused in the South African
Union by “Australia’s” abstention from
voting in U.N.O. on South Africa’s case
for annexation of “German South-West”
and on its issue with India aver Indian
settlers. By abstaining, “Australia” an-
tagonised a brother Dominion equally
vulnerable with us to any demands for
living-room from Asiatic peoples. The
German South-west issue having been
raised again, “Australia” voted for South
Africa when an “Australian” vote could
do no good.
But changes of plumage “in mid-flight”
have been most noticeable in our rela-
tions with America over Japan, and our
gratuitous interference in Indonesia. Dr.
ON THE ROAD FROM MANDALAY.
“The Anglo-Burmese treaty, to take effect on January 6, provides for the independence
of Burma, as a country ‘not within His Majesty’s dominions and not entitled to His Majesty’s
protection.’”
“Come you back, you British soldier..."
“You’ll want us back before long."
Evatt left for Tokyo breathing fire and
brimstone against General MacArthur’s
administration of Japan. He arrived, and,
having talked with the American com-
mander, promptly jettisoned all those
ideas; indeed, he rounded on the
astonished Mr. Ball to such effect that
Mr. Ball threw up his job, as Mr. Has-
luck had thrown up his.
The Indonesian policy of Canberra is
now notorious for its moods and shifts.
Communist-controlled waterfront unions
first directed it —venomously anti-Dutch.
Canberra followed reluctantly, passively
hostile to the Dutch ; and the Chifley an-
nouncement of Australia’s intervention at
U.N.O. as a neutral convinced nobody.
The American U.N.O. delegation
promptly took action to restore the
Dutch-Indonesian dispute to its properly
domestic status. A committee of three
(one an Australian), using “good offices,”
after a preliminary meeting in Sydney
was flown to Java. Meanwhile Dr. Evatt,
who defended Russian policy in 1946 as
being concerned merely with “security
against future attack,” let fly at it in a
U.N.O. debate, and Communists in Aus-
tralia let fly at him.
Thus another change of plumage
became expedient. So “we” sud-
denly declared “our” support of the
Russians, who at U.N.O. have been
demanding that “all troops” in In-
donesia shall withdraw to lines held
before fighting began. It would be a
sentence of death to masses of Chinese.
Eurasians, Indians and anti-Communist
Indonesians, thousands of whose com-
patriots were butchered by “our Inder-
nesian comrades” before the Dutch
arrived as liberators ; but that seemed to
be as immaterial to Our Foreign Policy
as it is to Communists. The Russo-“ Au-
stralian” manoeuvre failed.
Another development of “Australian”
policy agreeable to Moscow is the send-
ing of one S. P. Lewis to Mexico City as
an “Australian” delegate to the
U.N.E.S.C.O. conference.
Lewis is leader of the Reds and Pinks
of the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation who
boycotted the Workers’ Educational As-
sociation because one of its lecturers had
in a lecture indulged in some criticism
of Moscow proceedings, mild compared
with what thousands of others have pub-
lished since. To the confusion of Edu-
cation Minister Heffron, Darby, M.L.A.,
himself a member of the Teachers’
Federation, revealed last week that the
years-old boycott is still on, Wollongong
members of the Teachers’ Federation
having, under orders from the Lewis
gang, withdrawn from an Adult Educa-
tion Week because it had been sponsored
by the W.E.A.
Mr, Lang has recalled that S. P. Lewis
stood —and lost his deposit—as a “State
Labor” candidate for Federal Barton in
1940, when Dr. Evatt was elected for the
constituency, “State Labor” being one of
the aliases taken by the Communist con-
spiracy when it had to go underground.
Not all the “State Labor” candidates and
supporters were Communists or fellow-
travellers ; mugs deceived by the label or
influenced by hostility to the A.L.P. were
gathered in. Lewis claims that he is a
“Left-wing Socialist” or something of
the kind. Anyway, he is a cheeky and
intolerant fellow, decidedly the wrong
sort of person to represent Australia
or the teaching body at any U.N.O.
conference. There are many teachers
with unexceptionable qualifications and
records, hundreds of servicemen among
them. But when “Labor” is dispensing
patronage in the form of overseas trips
no serviceman ever gets a look in.
"Mr. Nolan's Union."
Union-boss comments on his adminis-
tration have goaded Queensland Commis-
sioner Wills into revealing war-time acti-
vities of Certain of his critics over which
a veil was drawn at the time:
In January, 1942, when the Japanese
menace was at its height, Mr. Nolan’s union
[the A.R.U.] threatened to declare a section
of the railways “black” because of a dis-
pute regarding fettlers’ camps.
In February, 1944, the same union and
another issued an instruction to all fettlers
to travel to and from work in the Com-
missioners’ time. The enormous war traffic
being handled then prevented the depart-
ment taking risk of a railway strike.
And the attitude of “Mr. Nolan’s union”
is the same in peace as in war. Plac-
ing of an overseas order for modern-
type locomotives was followed by a union
instruction that if employees were not
satisfied with the locos, they needn’t man
them. And a Nolan demand for “greater
-service to the public” by the over-
burdened department coincided with a
Nolan condemnation of shiftwork and
with a Nolan “rejection of proposals to
work overtime on repairs.”
“Mr. Nolan’s union” is wholly com-
posed of Government employees.
Hostages to Fortune.
The “Labor” notion is that the next war
will be one of atom-bombs and controlled
robot rockets. When Mr. Chifley—if still
there—pushes his buttons, the enemy
across the sea will push his—unless, as is
' most probable, the enemy across the sea
does his button-pushing first.
; But surely the corollary to the “defence
i system” of which the Ghifleys are so
• enamored, to the extent of ignoring the
i need for any army of trained soldiers, en-
i tails also an urgent dispersal of industries
[ and of Big-City populations. Yet there is
■ smug satisfaction in “Labor” circles at
■ the census returns, which show in every
, State inordinate growth of metropolitan
’ areas, all as vulnerable as they could be
; from sea and air, but all predominantly
; “Labor.” “Labor” holds, among other
i city electorates, Perth and Fremantle,
i Adelaide and Port Adelaide. Melbourne
and Port Melbourne, East and West Syd-
ney, Newcastle, Brisbane and Hobart.
Since the last census Sydney and Mel-
bourne, disproportionately big then, have
. added each another quarter-million to
their numbers, and Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth another quarter of a million
among them. That is to say, in a total
Australian increase during 14 years of
951,000 people, nearly 750,000 appeared
in the five mainland capital cities.
More than half the people of
Australia live in the six capital cities, and
well over a third of them in Melbourne
and Sydney. Push-button war would
either destroy these city populations or
put them into such a panic as would
effectually counter any capacity for
national resistance in organised modern
war. Yet, from the way things are shaping
all “Labor” politicians concern themselves
with is the business of reorganising the
electorates, building on this desperately
baneful condition to the end of assuring
permanent “Labor” control of Parliament.
National suicide has been proceeding
apace in this country because of the futile
efforts, never sincere with “Labor”
till the events of 1942-43 scared “Labor”
out of its five wits, to “encourage immi-
gration.” There is no better way of hasten-
ing the process than to permit the con-
tinuance —let alone the increasing—of the
swollen sprawl of the capital cities. We
shall pay a steadily-rising penalty for this
stupidity even during years of peace, if
only because these cities have outgrown
the services necessary for populations
which, in any strike, can do next to noth-
ing for themselves.
Mr. Chifley has said there is no defence
against the push-button enemy. He is
wrong. There is the absolutely necessary
' defence measure of decentralising fac-
tories and reducing concentrations Of city
people—a passive measure, perhaps, but
approved all over the world as prudent,
however strong or weak militarily a
country may be. Dispersal of city popu-
lations could be assisted by a substantive
measure warranted on grounds of good
government in its widest sense; the
formation of new States.
"Controls."
Everywhere and in every circumstance,
the panacea of these “Labor”-socialists
and “Labor”-Communists for shortages
and high prices is to bring the affected
goods under Government control. There-
upon the shortages become worse and the
prices higher.
Almost every essential item of food,
wearing apparel and building material is
under some form of “control” in Aus-
tralia —many of them under several dif-
fering “controllers.” When to all this is
added the control exercised by the “mili-
tant” unions, which can stop production
on the flimsiest pretext without fear of
penalty or even “Government” interfer-
ence, it should puzzle nobody able to
understand why goods are scarce and dear
and why blackmarkets thrive, despite the
threats and whimpers of those whose duty
it is to smash them —though threats and
whimpers are as scarce as the goods.
The most striking illustration of the
control fallacy is seen in the fact that
unessential, as well as extravagant and
for the most part useless, uncontrolled
dil-dols and fal-de-rals can be bought
without stint. Retail stores are full of
them. The housewife c&nnot buy soap
for the washing, but she can buy orna-
ments for the dresses she can’t wash. The
motorist can’t get a necessary working
part for his car, but he can buy gadgets
galore to stick around it. Cigarettes have
to be hunted, but holders are there in
stacks. Children’s shoes which won’t
wear out in a week or two are almost
prohibitively dear, but handbags, wallets,
pouches and ash-trays are in ample sup-
ply. There is a dreadful shortage of
school text-books, but not of s.-p. supple-
ments, novelettes and colored comics.
And there are more of these examples
—hundreds of them. Not that it matters
how many are shoved before the socialist.
He has one faith and one idea. To sug-
gest that ordinary human enterprise be
given a go without the crippling business
of having to fill in forms, obtain permits,
pay licence fees and all the rest of it is
to invite abuse. No, “control” is the
socialist fetish, and “controlled” we shall
be, even unto socialism’s last day ; and if
ruin be our reward then it will simply
mean a new department for the Control
of Controlled Persons,


mu
L
CRAVENA
for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LTD. ■ OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
4
6744
POLITICAL POINTS
Borough elections in England and
Wales showed that Churchill’s description
of the Attlees as a “lousy Government”
was not straining “factual narration” of
the electorates’ sentiments. The Socialists
were resoundingly defeated in 687 muni-
cipal seats, all, with only a handful of
exceptions, lost to Conservatives.
“Labor’s” number is up in Britain, as it is
in Australia, and for the same reasons.
Speaking in the Queensland Assembly,
Donald, “Labor” member for * Bremer,
cited the Attlee Government’s Budget sur-
plus—the only surplus of any kind to be
found at present in Britain —as conclu-
sive proof “that the ‘Labor’ party is fit
to govern and can govern better than
any other party the world has ever seen.”
“Hansard” had barely printed his remarks
when the British people had the oppor-
tunity of showing through the municipal
elections their opinion of two years of
“ ‘Labor’ Government”; “Labor” lost
687 seats.
Artie Fadden and Archie Cameron
made rattling good speeches on the Bank
Grab Bill —Fadden under difficulties, for
laryngitis still had him in its grip. Said
Fadden: —
The Commonwealth Bank holds
£268,000,000, deposited by the trading banks
as trustees for the people It has no
resources of its own to buy out the
trading banks; unless it resorts to inflation
it will buy them out with their own de-
posits, compulsorily lodged.
One would almost think Artie was hark-
ing back to Lang’s method of getting
advances from the N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank, the one that went bung.
Darby (Manly) to the superfluous
N.S.W. Minister of Building Materials:
Will the Minister say whether it is a
fact that the Sydney Turf Club [McKell’s
contribution to the victory over Japan] has
moved into the Sydney premises occupied
by the American Centre and that, a con-
siderable quantity of material now in short
supply was used in the conversion.
The superfluous Minister replied that he
“wasn’t aware,” but would “have an
investigation made.” The automatic
“Labor” answer when the privileges
showered on the Sydney Turf Club, to
the detriment of houseless Diggers, are
challenged.
N.S.W. ‘ Local Government Minister
Cahill has had the gall to suggest that he
has been guided by English examples in
wiping out most of the municipalities in
the County of Cumberland. Not even
an English “Labor” Government would
dare to do what Cahill is trying to do by
recourse to the gag—it was the proud
boast of McGirr, made recently, that
“Labor” had never, never, gagged de-
bate. If Cahill really wants an English
precedent he has one to his hand in the
crushing defeat of “Labor” and the Com-
munists in the borough elections —the
Commqnists lost “all their nine seats.”
With the good-as-“ Labor” Parry abroad,
“Labor” may not be able to push its
measure through the Legislative Coun-
cil, which has been refused the “allow-
ances” it has been claiming. McGirr
offers it a referendum on Legislative
Council abolition. With characteristic
“Labor” inconsistency and effrontery, he
refuses the ratepayers a referendum on
municipal-council abolition. •
Until the coalmines were nationalised
“the largest colliery owners in Britain
were Powell Duffryn Technical Services.”
So it was announced —incorrectly—in
Queensland, the first Australian State to
go in for Labor-socialism on a massive
scale, together with the news that Powell
Duffryn’s chairman of directors had
arrived in search of concessions and had
presented “a report and recommenda-
tions” to the “Labor” Premier. This in-
vasion of “Labor”-socialist Queensland
by British concessionaires is a fantastic
development. It can scarcely have escaped
the notice of Churchill, Eden and John
Anderson, but if they have made any
comment on it in Parliament or elsewhere
it hasn’t been cabled.
Calwell, blithering for Cain in Vic-
toria, boasted that “Australia is the only
country in the world with a sound
economy.” Drakeford’s contribution was
that “it is necessary to go abroad” —
Drakeford has been abroad several times,
everything paid—to “realise that Aus-
tralia is the best-governed country in the
world.” This stuff means only that Cal-
well and Drakeford enjoy place and play
and are “fulfilled and satisfied.”
Drakeford has had the face to brag
that his “Government” has “reduced un-
employment figures to the lowest in the
country’s history.” So are British unem-
ployment figures the lowest in British his-
tory ; but then so is production and so is
the food ration, so the Attlees do not in-
vite ridicule by hogging the credit.
With a dreaded winter coming on, and
with the coal position worse than it was
in the autumn of 1946, when Shinwell
affected to believe that position and out-
look were marvellous, there have been
more cruel losses of coal production in
Britain because of strikes. Why do these
miners strike? Because, an American
authority explains, “they were led to be-
lieve that nationalisation of the mines
would bring a brighter day and have
been completely disillusioned” ; in effect
“their present unrest is but a natural
human reaction to political failure.” 'Hie
American authority is the “United Mine-
workers’ Journal,” organ of John L.
Lewis and his union. The “Journal”
went on to say that the United Mine-
workers had “voted down proposals for
nationalisation” and asked for nothing
more than “improved safety legislation.”
In bank expropriation and in reduction
of County-of-Cumberland municipalities
from 66 to 16 W. H. Spooner, N.S.W.
president of the Liberal organisation, sees
“an identical technique,” as well as the
contempt for the electors shown in each
case.
Both measures seek complete political
control. Both seek centralised power. In
each bureaucracy is to replace individual
initiative.
True, and pithily put. McGirr having
bragged that “Labor” never used the gag,
the measure is naturally being whisked
through the Assembly by recourse to
the gag.
Under judgments of State industrial
tribunals, Queensland, South Australian
and Westralian unionists are to get the
40-hour week. Said Morgan J, in
Adelaide: *-
I am unable to express any opinion as
to the extent to which a reduction in work-
ing hours might reduce total value of pro-
duction or increase costs. That it will do
the former is probable. That it will do the
latter is certain.
And don’t wagepayers, taxpayers and
housewives know it!
Mikolajczyk, the Poles’ P.M. during
the war and Peasant-party leader after-
wards, seems to have escaped the fate of
Petkov, the murdered Bulgarian, by taking
refuge abroad, Maniu, the Rumanian
Peasant leader, after languishing in prison
for months, is being “tried” by a Com-
munist “people’s court,” thirsting for his
blood. Petkov, Maniu and Mikolajczyk
contended against the Nazis when the
Communist blood-drinkers among their
peoples were on the Nazi side. They will,
have an honored place in history when
their enemies are forgotten except by
students and historians of Communist
crime.
To the bitter indignation of Calwell
and his pals, G. J. Coles, back from a
business tour of Britain, the Continent
and North America, has reported that
“the British people are listless and
apathetic, always filling in forms and
generally living under a mass of red-
tape,” The transition from Britain to
the United States was like “going from
a cage to open country” ; in America
“business is brisk and unrestricted,” and,
high as prices are, “the average Ameri-
can workingman buys more with his
money than any other workingman in the
world.” “Labor’s” indignation has not
rendered it speechless. That would be
a physical impossibility.
The forthright G. J, Coles is head of
the concern from which “Labor” took
another Coles and placed him at the head
of its airline concern at a salary equiva-
lent to nothing under a pyramid of half-
crowns. That Coles it was who, with
Wilson, voted “Labor” into office in
1941. Wilson was rewarded first with a
power-alcohol plant in his electorate
which never processed a bushel of wheat
and then with the Norfolk Island job
previously reserved for A.I.F. veterans —
“brasshats” to Ward, who hates all ser-
vicemen suspected of lacking “Labor”
sympathies.
“Every aim of the Communist move-
ment throughout the world is based on
the teachings of Christ.” That was said
by Holloway, member for Melbourne
Ports, Minister of Labor and National
Service, and No. 3 in the Cabinet at
Canberra. Apparently Archbishop Man-
nix waited to see the monstrous lie in
“Hansard” before he let fly at the author,
which he did to some purpose, but with
a questionable addition;
The atrocious remarks were, for the time
being, allowed to pass without a protest,
even from Catholic members. Later, I
understand, protests were made.
If any protest came from any Catholic
“Labor” member it was not published.
Australia is the only part of the English-
speaking world in which Catholic
“Labor” and union bosses
make a practice, not only of stringing
along with Communists in pursuit of their
common “objective,” but of crawling to
them like the worms of the field.
The P.M.G. Cameron’s latest contribu-
tion to the peace, order and good gov-
ernment of the Commonwealth was to
rise in the Senate during the debate on
the Appropriation Bill and applaud all
the recent strikes —against his “Govern-
ment” though most of them were. The
only fault of the strikers, he said —much
in the tones of Holloway depicting the
Christlike quality of Communism —is
that they don’t strike enough. He wished
he were younger —he will be 70 on
January 19 —that he might ginger them
up. “If it were not for strikes,” was his
crowning sentiment, “this country would
still be a convict settlement.” The
agonised cry heard from the direction of
Victoria could not be mistaken for Cain
applauding.
Trying to defend Pollard from charges
that he failed to make adequate provi-
sion for the wheat harvest, Perrett (or
Parrot) admitted for the Board that
about 20 million bushels in N.S.W. alone
will “have to be held on farms till bags
are available.” That alone knocks out
Pollard, and, anyway, the 20 millions
looks as much of “a guess” (“Labor”
term) as was made when the 18 millions
was sold to N.Z. at ss. 9d. Perrett went
on to say that farmers will have to “pile
up wheat in paddocks,” and where no
cover is available leave it in mounds at
the mercy of rain, birds and vermin:
American experience has shown how
minor these risks are. Rain runs off, and
the only damage after several months was
to a small quantity round the base and
under the mounds.
They must have timid mice and birds in
the U.S.A.! Australian experience is
that Perrett, like Scully and Pollard,
talks through his neck.
The interest of Powell Duffryn Tech-
nical Services in coal resources outside
Britain isn’t confined to Blair Athol and
other unexploited fields in Queensland
which chairman Robert Foot has been
looking over. London “Times” notes
that the concern “is already engaged in
Nigeria and Borneo investigating the de-
velopment of the coal deposits in the two
colonies on behalf of the British Gov-
eminent” —yes, the British Government.
Strange!
There have been morose objections to
Dr. Ross, Dr. Coombs’s No. 2 in the
Post-War Reconstruction business, com-
ing out as a newspaper champion of the
seizure of the trading banks. This is
unfair, for the man must have something
to do if he is to keep his weight down.
Like Napoleon, though a long while after,
he can’t reconcile himself to fattening
like a hog in a sty.
Somehow lottery finance doesn’t help
the Governments that go in for it,
whether they claim to run their lotteries
for hospitals or for the general good. In
1946-47 Tasmania’s lottery tax contri-
buted £485,813 to a total tax-revenue of
£2,495,583, the increase for the year being
£106,313. Yet Premier-Treasurer Cos-
grove had to confess a deficit of £66,186
and an “accumulated unfunded defi-
ciency of £310,430” ; and though he anti-
cipates getting £523,500 from lottery
tax this current year, he has budgeted
for a general loss of £527,318. In Canada,
the U.S.A., South Africa and New Zea-
land they won’t have lotteries, and they
get on much better without them in every
way.
Country shires are becoming curious
about the proportion of Commonwealth
petrol-tax revenue they are supposed to
get for construction and maintenance of
their roads. The P.M., who sometimes
remembers that he is (or was) a shire
councillor, mentioned to the Premiers in
August that, although his Treasury had
been paying proceeds to the States for
some months, he didn’t know of any
N.S.W. shire which had received its share.
Later Cahill (Local Government, Syd-
ney) denied that any Commonwealth
money was being withheld from the
shires, „ Meantime, Muller, M.L.A., said
Queensland local-government authorities
would be bankrupt in a few years unless
they got some financial help, and Evans,
M.L.A., said they had had only £500,000
from the Hanlons’ £2,300,000 “State de-
velopment tax.” Still, with a Common-
wealth Government holding most
peculiar views about the ownership of
money, it’s scarcely to be wondered at
that State Governments of the same
political color are growing somewhat —
well, careless.
“George Bernard Shaw, one of the
world’s greatest thinkers, has advocated
bank nationalisation.” So said Roberts,
the “Labor” M.L.A. for Nundah (Q.);
and Roberts was upset when Macdonald,
the C.P. man from Stanley, drily ad-
vised him not to take Shaw seriously.
So were other people when the thing
was published. But in matters unrelated
to the writing of plays why should any-
one fiike Shaw seriously? No clever
man of his time has written sillier things.
For example, the stuff he wrote a few
days after Russia was forced into the
war: —-
Yesterday Britain and America faced the
tremendous job of smashing Hitler, with.
Russia looking on smiling. Today we
have nothing to do but sit and smile while
Stalin smashes Germany.
Within four months the Russkis were in
so desperate a plight that Britain, with
two enemies on its hands and another
coming, had to draw on its scanty re-
sources to send aid to the squealing
Stalin lest he twist again.
From one of those roving reporters:
Eire, like Victoria, is to have a general elec-
tion, in the Eire case because the De Valera
Government has lost a couple of by-elections
to a Republican group. Which brings me, with
not too violent a jolt, I hope, to the situation
in Portland, where Labor-member Holt is
struggling to hold on against a C.P.-Lib. chal-
lenge—it used to be a C.P. seat. There is a
Killarney in Portland, though it has no blarney-
stone. The inhabitants grow potatoes and talk
about ’ninety-eight and Dan O’Connell and the
good old days when there was always Home
Rule to fight about. Since 1917 there has been
another live topic. In that year two Killarney
fellies voted for conscription and the colony has
been trying ever since to find out who (hey
were. Visiting canvassers for the parties noticed
the preoccupied look on the faces of the people,
asked, and were told that was it. They’re still
hunting for those two voters.


THE LEANING TOWER OF P.S.A.
“Of 2,295,100 persons in civil employment last August, 567,000 were drawing pay from Commonwealth, State and local government. Commonwealth employees
numbered 159,200 —on June 30, 1938, the number of full-time Commonwealth employees was 47,697."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Uco”: Civic pride reveals itself in
strange ways. A comic song “If the
Yarra Were Only the Danube,” at pre-
sent amusing audiences at a Melbourne
theatre, contained in its original version
the line “We’d waltz every morning to
Footscray.” Along to the theatre went
Footscray’s mayor, who later complained
that when his suburb was mentioned the
audience laughed. He protested to the
management, claiming that Footscray
had been held up to ridicule, that the
song was an insult and that in any case
the odor —which hadn’t been mentioned
in the song—didn’t come from ’Scray at
all but from South Kensington. The
comedian responsible for the offending
line claimed that he was born in Foots-
cray and had mentioned the suburb be-
cause he wanted to give the place a
boost. But Footscray wanted no boost
of that sort, so the theatre agreed to
change the line. Henceforth we’ll “waltz
every morning to Fitzroy.” Fitzroy is
not complaining.
* * * *
“Anketell” : I hold no decided views
on the ways and means adopted by
N. S. Wales police to get evidence of the
illegal sale of booze in “dine-and-dance”
joints and other places, but it is interest-
ing to note, the ruling of an English
Judge in quashing the conviction of a
barman alleged to have taken a bet from
plainclothes policeman. Although the
conviction was wiped on other grounds,
the Court noted “with strong disapproval
that a policeman was sent into a public
house to commit an offence,” and held
that he was just as guilty of breaking the
law as was the barman-bookie. After
that the cop must have felt rather like
that smoker who insured £3O-worth of
cigars, smoked ’em, took the ash to the
insurance company and asked for his
money, claiming that the goods had been
destroyed by fire. In the subsequent
court case, so the story goes, the Judge
awarded the claimant his 30 quid and
then, finding him guilty of arson, sent
him up for a couple of years.
* * * *
“Miss Tout”: My boss is a pretty
smart lawyer and a human one, and his
bills of costs vary according to the
means and manners of his clients, as far
as he can judge ’em —a good businesslike
customer is invariably let off some of the
incidentals and honest hard-up cases get
far more for their money than they
realise, but cantankerous, time-wasting
ear-bashers are generally slugged for
every minute and item of service. Bull-
whistle was one of the latter kind, and
the account for attending to some petti-
fogging legal business for him listed
every possible chargeable item. But
he had the last word. He came into
the office and insisted on handing his
cheque to the boss. “I notice,” he said
a little wryly, “that youfldidn’t charge for
the three times I rang your office and
found the number engaged.”
* * * *
“Flathead”: As I ambled along Syd-
ney’s Bligh-street—the only place on
earth where the wind can hit you Sim-
ultaneously from ' everywhere—a small
willywilly descended and removed my
hat. As I grabbed for the lid my suit-
case popped open and dumped the lot
on the pavement. The situation called
for system. After anchoring my hat to
the concrete with my foot I began reach-
ing out for the straying clobber —hard
work, but eventually 1 had the case
battened down, sat on it and mused on
what an uncharitable town I’d landed
in. Then my gaze wandered down to
my hat. Ninepence already lay in the
crown and another threepence fell as I
gaped.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: I went fishing on Syd-
ney Harbor last Saturday. On the way
to Manly I leaned back in the ferry seat,
at peace with a peaceful world and ad-
miring the quiet beauty of the harbor and
its foreshores. Suddenly a monstrous
sound assailed me and I turned to see an
apparently normal young couple poised
over a portable radio from which moaned
the vocal agonies of Frank Sinatra. I
shrank away. Later, after I’d rowed
out to my tried and favorite fishing spot,
I sat dreaming happily in the sun while
my line floated in the depths. Then, like
an explosion, there came from a boat
about 50 yards away the hoarse, excited
voice of an announcer describing a horse-
race. Still later in the day I rowed ashore
to a small secluded beach and stretched
out on the warm sand for a snooze in
the sun, but I’d barely closed my eyes
when a hideous cacophony shattered the
tranquillity of the place and the after-
noon. About 20 yards away a flapper
and her boy-friend were sitting arm-in-
arm nodding their heads and swaying
“ What's all the hurry? Where's the fire?”
their bodies in ecstatic appreciation of
the horrible discordance called “jive”
which was emanating from their “port-
able.” I know we have little privacy left
these days, but surely, in the maze of
regulations and by-laws that control our
lives, there is just one little section to
say that we shall not be followed even
to the quietest‘sanctuaries by one of the
most maddening habits of the madding
crowd.
* * * It
“Youanmi”: I doubt very much
whether Mr. Chifley will leave the nation
more than a headache and a thumping
bill for socialism, achieved or attempted,
but he can already claim to have added
one word to our vocabulary. A friend
of mine who contributes regularly to the
upkeep of Sydney bookmakers returned
from the races last week 'and, sadly dis-
playing his empty pockets, made the
graphic announcement that he had been
“completely nationalised” by the bookies.
Then, in the local the other day, I heard
a burly character holding forth to his
mate: “I didn’t mind the so-and-so try-
ing to bite me for a fiddly, but when he
called me a lousy I up an’ ’it
’im fair on the jaw. ’E was nationalised
for ten minutes.”
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: Humor in unexpected
places? A closed truck plies the back
lanes of Kalgoorlie’s unsewered areas in
the early mornings, and on a recent morn-
ing miners riding to work were amused to
see chalked in large letter on its side
“Fourth Security Load.”
* * * #
“Harold Hardupp”; There are some
men who when they are possessed of a
fairish sum of money have no other idea
than to “cut out the cheque.” The
queerest way of doing it in my acquaint-
ance was that of a man who, having re-
ceived a big tote win, walked on to a
New Zealand steamer. He kept well
drunk all the journey, and when it ended
he bought a ticket for his return. Then
he transferred to another N.Z. boat and
started again. He was months travelling
backwards and forwards across the Tas-
man, always in a pleasant state of tight-
ness, and never quite certain whether he
was in N.S.W. or N.Z. waters. When a
man hailed me a few weeks ago with
the declaration that we had met some-
where, I recalled this long-ago wanderer:
we had met a couple of times. Invited to
have a drink -he surprised me by declar-
ing that he had not tasted a drink for 20
years and hated the stuff. I should have
liked to learn how long that boozing
voyaging of his lasted, but he wouldn’t
be drawn.
* * * ♦
“Pedro”; Those pars, about the freak-
ishness of the memory recall an experi-
ence of a friend of mine. Several “Old
Girls” who had been classmates at a
Brisbane school 20 years ago ran
a stall at a fete in the school grounds.
During the afternoon they re-explored the
school buildings, and, coming upon their
old classroom, decided to look for their
names carved in the desks. After 10
minlites’ vain search my friend realised
she was seeking her married instead of
her maiden name. She has been married
only 12 years, but, perhaps, it seems
longer.
* * ♦ *
“McOatcake”: As my crystal-set will
pick up nothing but static and the station
broadcasting from Canberra, my quota of
radio entertainment is somewhat limited.
However, I do get a little mystery when
the noises are from Parliament. From
somewhere in the house comes a “ghost
voice” with a distinctive gruff tone of
about low E rising to a more jovial pitch
immediately after the Parliamentary
dinner break. Special conditions are
needed to detect it, for when an Opposi-
tion member takes the floor the voice
vanishes as if it has heard the morning
thurch-bells. But when a “Labor” mem-
ber starts speaking the phantom returns,
doling out “hear! hears!” and “jolly
good points” to direct the listener’s atten-
tion to what it considers an epic state-
ment which shouldn’t be missed.
* * * *
“Bethune”: No one can tell me the
British Socialist Government isn’t doing
its best to keep up the morale of the
people. I have just received a letter from
an old lady to whom I had sent a food
parcel. It tells the familiar story of short-
ages and deprivation—no fires throughout
the whole of last winter, leaky roofs and
no plumbers, a shiflingsworth of meat a
week, butter a rarity and’eggs a memory.
From beginning to end it was a picture
of unrelieved gloom, the outpourings of
an elderly woman in the twilight of her
life who sees no hope of ever again enjoy-
ing the common comforts of existence.
Chastened, I put the letter back in its
envelope, and as I did so my eye caught
the slogan Britain’s P.M.G. had used to
cancel the stamps —“Look for the Silver
Lining.”
)j{ jJ; jjj jJ{
“W.D.”: During World War I the
transport Wyreema put in for water at
Durban the day after the Melbourne Cup.
Wireless silence was the rule at sea, so
nothing was known on board about the
great race. As we approached the wharf
the boys on the rail shouted to the white
men on the shore “What won the Cup?”
After a pause came back “What Cup?”
A look of disgust spread over the faces
on board. A red-faced Digger shouted
“The Melbourne Cup, of course.” “Never
heard of it,” cried a chap below. “Blime,
these blokes are ignorant,” complained
the Digger.
* * * *
“Butch”: Ratcatchers are not the only
tradesmen objecting to their traditional
title (B. lO/’47). At a meeting of the
Meat and Allied Trade Federation of
Australia recently exception was taken by
many to being called butchers. They com-
plained that the name suggested men
dripping in blood.
* * * *
“Laetitia”; With the appointment of
an amenities officer to our show things
began to hum. His first move, the in-
fusion of a clublike atmosphere in the
men’s wet canteen, met with general
acclaim, but his formation of a debating
circle gave rise to much argument as to
its probable success or failure. The first
session planned was a
and, with his political knowledge appar-
ently half a century behind the times, he
chose “Home Rule for Ireland” as a sub-
ject. As orderly stooge for the day I was
able to testify with peculiar accuracy as
to the success of the discussion, which
commenced after the beer session in the
canteen cut out. I had 12 compulsory
guests in the guard-tent that night.
* * * *
“Mullum”: “G’roper” (B. 22/10/’47)
is right regarding the virtues of narrow
streets, but “wide streets for cold, wet
climates”? Never. Any Sydneysider who
strikes a wet day during his Melbourne
holiday will sigh for narrow Pitt-street,
which can be crossed in the heaviest rain
without being drowned.
♦ * * *
“S.S.”: The importer had just been
down to the wharf examining with the
shipping company’s representative his case
of ladies’ gloves The case had been
badly pillaged, only a few gloves remain-
ing in it. The importer was still chewing
the rag as he walked up the hill to the
tram. At the tram-stop a character sidled
up to him with “Would you be interested
in a decent pair of gloves for the wife,
mate? Genuine imported. I just got me
hand caught in a case of them —look.”
He could run, too.
* * * *
“Sach”: Saw a variation of the “In,”
“Pending,” “Out,” trays usually found on
the desks of Government officials. The
chap who labelled them was apparently
feeling bitter. The labels on the side of
the trays facing the public were labelled:
“This Year,” “Next Year,” “Never.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Mention of Vosper,
“the Western State’s most picturesque
legislator” (B. 8/10/’47), reminded me of
the tales my Dad used to tell of those
stirring times. The one that fired my
imagination most was of Vosper, in an,
electioneering speech, promising to have
John and Alexander Forrest behind the
bars within a few weeks of his being
elected. Can’t recall his charges, but I
think they concerned the trucking of
cattle, free of charge, on Government
railways. Vesper’s untimely death spared
the long-haired founder of the “Sunday
Times”—so years old on October 24 —
the task of making good his boast.
* * * =f=
“Laetitia”: Andy Fisher’s greater in-
terest in a chance-seen lizard than the
majesty of Victoria Falls (B. 10/9/’47) re-
minds me of old Woolbales, who, on his
first visit to the city for years, was
dragooned into attending a talkie theatre.
Through Clark Gable’s heights of heroism
and Turner’s sultriest strutting the
old man sat unmoved. But his stentorian
interruption of a “newsreel,” “Look at
the bloody pig,” reddened the rouge on
the cheeks of his city granddaughters, the
more so because the customers clapped
him to the echo. In the face of this
demonstration the huskies in Ruritanian
regimentals, who were advancing upon
him with grim purpose, retired in dis-
order.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Casual handling of wealth
(B. 24/9/’47)? In 1930, when the trading
banks were required to hand over all their
gold coin to the Commonwealth Bank in
exchange for Australian notes, I was
stationed in a N.S.W. town, and
received notice to send our “treasury
gold” to Sydney. We had over 6000
sovereigns, and the instructions from head
office were most explicit. The cash was to
be bagged, boxed, securely bound with
wire or steel tape, sealed with the bank
seal and a police escort obtained. With
one of the clerks as additional escort, and
armed with revolvers, we went by cab to
the railway station. There the box had
to be handed over personally to the
station-master and a receipt, with two
signatures, obtained. This was all faith-
fully done. Late in the afternoon, I
visited the station to meet the Sydney
train, and saw the box of gold sitting
between two cream-cans at the far end
of the platform, waiting for the out-
going train.
* * * *
“Brolga”: “Our local correspondent”
is usually a reliable bird who sends faith-
ful dispatches, but I remember one re-
port, published in a Hawke’s Bay (M.L.)
daily, which created a stir. Subject was
a fancy-dress ball alleged to have been
held in an outlying settlement. The
editor’s phone began to ring. It turned
out that the thing was pure fiction—to
anyone who knew the persons named the
dresses they were held to have worn were
impossible. An 18-stun lady was listed as
having appeared as a fairy, the chief
wowser as a boy scout and a lady whose
features plainly showed that somewhere
in the past one of her forefathers had
loved a Maori maid was Snow White.
The editor stoutly refused to divulge the
identity of 0.1. c. For Which Ive always
been grateful, as although I wasn’t the
gent in question I helped to write the
report.
THE GOSPEL OF DON CAMERON.
“If it were not for strikes, this country would
still be a convict settlement.. . .He sometimes wished
that he was back again among the workers so that
he might urge them to strike and resist.”
—Senator Cameron, P.M.G.
A curious figure, this, among the band
Of Ministers who run our suffering land
And claim presumably to represent
All that is best in ordered government,
And help to frame, as being the elect,
The laws we’re all expected to respect.
A voice to startle one above a bit
If you devote a moment’s thought to it.
In gusty passion for the workers’ cause
He scoffs, it seems, at Arbitration laws.
Let milder tribunes pin their faith thereon,
They cut no ice for Brobdingnagian Don.
die yearns to see employees win their rights
No more by arguments but open fights
(An interesting view for worthy souls
In the department he himself controls).
“Strikes our Achilles’heel? ” one hears him bray,
“Where would we be except for them today?
Back in the dawn of Austral history,
The lamentable years of ‘Bond or Free.’ ”
What matter how they go or whom they hurt,
One seems to hear him doggedly assert,
They blazed the track we else had sought in vain
To nationhood, with blessings in their train.
Most men have panaceas to suggest
For all the ills by which the world’s distressed,
Nostrums to set us further on the stage
Towards illustrious Chifley’s Golden Age;
But only Cameron’s, I think you’ll find,
Is strictly of the homoepathic kind.
Note him, defiant in the pose he likes,
Vociferous protagonist of strikes!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Jasby”; There’s to be a review of the
Army penal system, including the pro-
visions for the censoring of prisoners’
mail. Which reminds me. Four years
ago my mate Bill, for some minor trans-
gression of Army law, found himself on
the wrong side of the barbed-wire in a
Moresby detention camp. His troop
commander visited him and asked if there
was anything he could do. Bill
asked whether his father could be in-
formed of his whereabouts. This was
apparently against regulations, and the
officer demurred, but later wrote to Bill
senior telling him not to be alarmed at
not receiving any letters from Bill as “I
have had to send him away on a special
job. He will be away about 28 days.”
The sequel was a letter to Young Bill
from Old Bill, himself a veteran of Galli-
poli and France. “So you’re in the boob?
Your loot tried to cover up for you, but
I know there’s only one job in the Auny
that takes 28 days.”
* * *
“B. A. Ker”: I too have just finished
featuring a shiner (B. 15/10/’47). Rather
prettily colored—in a garish kind of way
—it caused friends to roar with mirth,
male strangers to smirk behind their
papers, and female dittos to keep a tighter
grip on their handbags while fixing a pro-
tective eye on the children. It was the last
insinuation that cut me deepest, because
I should be protected from kids, not kids
from me. But who would believe that a
fellow could get a stinker through blow-
ing up a kid’s balloon, even if it did bust
in his face?
* * *
“Niloc”: Uncle Sam’s Navy has been
almost snapping its mainstays since its
Government recently created a “Secre-
tary for Defence,” as in the matter of
gun salutes the S.F.D. will have to"
be sandwiched in between t the Sec-
retary for the Navy with* 19 and
“Between you and me, I never wear them!”
the President with 21 guns. They
cannot give the man a 20-gun salute,
such action apparently being likely
to tear the keel off all naval traditions.
Questioning a naval bloke on the sub-
ject I was told: “This odd-number salut-
ing is common through most of the
world. Eastern potentates greet each
other with hereditary, dynastic and per-
manent salutes of from seven guns up-
wards. The British ruler collects 101
when entering Indian waters —other mem-
bers of the Royal family travelling in the
area rate 31. There is a salute of one
gun accorded a cove on his way to court-
martial —possibly it accounts for the
phrase ‘getting the gun.’ In the old days
when a foreign vessel came into sight a
seaman would be sent to the masthead
with a sort of crib-board on which he
would count the salute ... but, heck, I
don’t know why they only fire odd
numbers.” Come in, my hearties!
* * * *
“Becks”: Of the reluctance of Holly-
wood filmsmiths to consider manuscripts
from outsiders (B. 29 /10/’47) I have
very recent proof. On August 26 I
dispatched a manuscript to Hollywood
by registered air-mail. Naturally it was
of outstanding quality and would un-
doubtedly have brought in millions of
dollars to the fortunate studio to which
1 offered it. I have just been examining
the postmarks on the envelope. It
reached San Francisco on August 30 and
Los Angeles on the 31st. On September
2 the postman endorsed it “Refused” and
it was rubber-stamped “Return to
Writer.” Los Angeles bade it farewell
the same day and ’Frisco on September
3. Sydney dead-letter office received it
on October 16 and passed it back to me
with contents intact. If I. Arthur Rank
wants the masterpiece he can get in touch
with me through The Bulletin.
* * * #
“Volts 35”: lam happy to announce to
the electricity-consuming public, as well
as to those engaged in the practice of
electricity, that the turbo-encabulator has
been brought to perfection. This machine,
it should be understood —
Will not only supply inverse reactive
current for use in unilateral phase de-
tractors, but will also be capable of auto-
matically synchronising cardinal grammeters.
Early attempts to construct a suffici-
ently robust spiral decommutator largely
failed because of a lack of appreciation of
the large quasi-piestic stresses in the gremlin
studs Electrical engineers will appreci-
ate the difficulty of nubing together a
regurgitative pugwell and a sumpramitive
wennel-sprocket. This was a stumbling-
block until 1942, when it was found that
the use of anhydrous nangling pins enabled
the kryptonastic boiling shims to be
tankered.
Henceforth, no dremcock oil is required
so long as the operating point is main-
tained by constantly fromaging the bitu-
mogeonous spandiels.
* * * *
“Tumbe Munda”: It still happens.
On our narrow-gauge line the mixed
goods carrying a, few passengers was
puffing its leisurely way between swamps
when it down and halted. The
guard walked up to the engine, and after
a brief conversation the train shunted
back a short distance. Then, removing
his boots and rolling up his trousers, the
guard waded into the swamp and re-
trieved the duck he had shot. The train
resumed its journey.
* * * *
“Bo”: On November 4, 1847, Felix
Mendelssohn died, aged 38 ; and as ex-
actly a century later a bunch of fiddle-
faced animals were rushing around a
track at Flemington, deepening our cul-
ture, it naturally followed that the cen-
tenary passed almost unnoticed in Aus-
tralia. But in England he would be re-
membered. Felix made ten visits there,
and they were some of the happiest
periods in his happy life —indeed, he
claimed to be “half an Englishman,” He
was as much at home improvising on the
piano at Buckingham Palace, to the de-
light of the young Victoria —to whom he
dedicated his “Scotch” Symphony—and
her consort as he was in the homes of
his many English friends. Mendelssohn’s
life revolved around friendships—he was
the type that makes friendships last
until death. A great pianist and the
greatest organist since Bach, his music is a
reflection of the happiness of his life. Be-
sides music he was a many-sided genius.
He was one of the world’s great letter-
writers —and he wrote everything in
copper-plate handwriting. From the age
of 12 he kept, in dozens of neat volumes.
“Previous experience? What, all of it, or just about work ?”
every letter he ever received. A fine
billiardist and a chess-player, a water-
colorist of considerable talent and a com-
petent draughtsman, he translated Terence
into German, He was an intimate friend
of Goethe, and he met and admired
Dickens. Short and slight, of great per-
sonal charm, he had a face that
Thackeray described as the most beauti-
ful he had ever seen. He and his beloved
sister Fanny were, next to Mozart and
his sister Nannerl, the world’s most
famous pair of prodigies. He died, of
course, through overwork, which brought
on apoplexy, the same malady that took
off his sister, father and mother —they
were a short-lived family. The Nazis
proscribed Mendelssohn’s works. Actually
Felix was a Protestant, as was his father
Abraham.
* $ * *
“Disgusted Spinner”: “Three men
jumped 15 feet into the sea at Bronte to
escape police who raided a two-up school
near Waverley cemetery”—so said one
of Sydney’s dailies, making almost far-
cical one of the nation’s oldest institu-
tions. In a report dealing with some-
what similar circumstances, a recent
London “Times” announced
Mrs. Norah Strong and Louis luff
were each fined £2OO at Guildford today
for being concerned together with the
organisation of an unlawful gaining party
at Mrs. Strong’s residence ten guests
were also charged with being present at a
gaming party the gambling paraphernalia
was ordered to be destroyed.
Mention of “guests” and “gambling para-
phernalia” cloaked with some semblance
of dignity the game of chemin-de-fer
which Mrs. Strong had been operating.
# * * *
“Plop”: Proudly I placed it in front
of the house, then stood back in admira-
tion, for, gleaming, brand-new, fluted and
ex-disposals it was the handsomest gar-
bage-tin in our street. When I returned
that evening it was gone, and in its place
lay a hopeless derelict with concertina
sides. However, by looking at them
standing bewildered by their gates, I saw
that my plight was shared by all the other
chaps who journey home by the five-ten.
After a huddle we called it a misdeal,
had a new shuffle and carted our rightful
containers back home. Next time the
collectors called my wife questioned them
and learned that the bloke responsible
for the mix-up had received news of a
lottery win while doing the last week’s
rounds. He played his joke and retired
from the business the same evening.
* * * *
“Zake”: As our suburb’s produce-
merchant was weighing up the dog-
biscuits I’d ordered he jerked his thumb
in the direction of the door out through
which his last customer had just gone.
“Never see a fellow like him,” he ob-
served. “A bit queer.” “Most of us are,
I suppose, on some subject or other,” I
replied. “What’s he cracked on —politics,
religion or saving trey-bits?” “Oh, noth-
ing like that. He’s been coming in here
for years, and, d’ you know, he’s never
once gone over to the wheat-bin, picked
up a handful like everyone else does and
let it trickle through his fingers! ” Letting
the last of it slide through my four digits
I reached for my pocket to pay him.
**_ * *
“Coongan”: Bill, who has a nursery
just outside the city, was running a de-
livery van of his flowers into market in
the small hours of the morning when he
was bailed up by a waving man
in dressing-gown and pyjamas. The chap
explained that he expected to be a father
in a matter of minutes, that he could not
start his car. Would Bill take his wife to
hospital? Bill had no objection, but he
was less than half-way to the hospital
when the country’s population was in-
creased by one. Bill stopped his van.
brought the little chap into the world
and then, after making the mother com-
fortable, drove on to the hospital, where
he was relieved of his charges by an
anxious white-coated specialist and wait-
ing nurses. “I’ve never heard anything
about it since,” Bill says now. “So I
s’pose the specialist got his thirty guineas
and the hospital its twenty quid, though
I dunno what for. Guess I should change
my job—it’s easier than growing flowers
and not half as worrying.”
* * # *
“Mrs. Postie”; Once again I must pro-
test against unfair discrimination against
my sex. The P.M.G. has just announced
the new summer kit to be issued to post-
men and postwomen throughout the
Commonwealth. This is it: Men, semi-
tropical shirts and trousers ; women, blue
azelin blouses, blue skirts, with either
caps or felt hats. Fair enough, you say.
Right, but here’s the catch. Postmen who
do their rounds on bicycles are to be
issued with double-seated trousers to
allow for extra wear and tear while de-
livering His Majesty’s mails. There’s no
mention of any special consideration for
postwomen who ride bicycles. I’m one,
and I don’t mind telling you I wear out
more than my patience in the service.
And the coupons!
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: At his posh city resi-
dential club, where he spends about a
month yearly in slaking the 11 months’
thirst accumulated on the Barkly Table-
land, old Bill Spinifex regularly provides
a wealth of diversion for fellow-members
and a minimum of trouble for house-
stewards. Accordingly his housephone
request to have the possum removed from
his room produced an assurance that this
woqld be done, and thereafter a degree of
fierce inactivity. Eventually the sixth
phone-call produced the head-steward
himself, who entered the room with the
idea of humoring the occupant by re-
moving the phantasmagorical possum.
Old Bill was ready with deadly aim, and
201 b. of very material possum, which had
strayed in from the adjacent park, took
the astonished steward foursquare in the
chest.
* * * *
“Yair”: I’ve seen a cafe called The
Tavern. I’ve even seen one called The
Tavern Inn. What I’m waiting for is to
see a pub go the full distance and call
itself The Tavern Inn Hotel.
* * * *
“Barkly”: A cobber of mine employed
at a State fuel depot where industrial
briquettes are carefully rationed out to
starving industry made friends with a
seven-year-old lad who every morning
before school came into the yard bowl-
ing an old truck tyre taller than himself.
The youngster had personality, and he
quickly won freedom from interference
in his play with the old tyre. After some
weeks had passed he brought his mates
along too, all laughing owners of worn-
out tyres. For an hour they romped and
played, but when they came to leave the
big wire-gates were closed. My cobber
had wakened up. The first little visitor
was brought forward, complete with tyre.
Inside the capacious rim, packed tight all
round, was a nice load of briquettes.
Every tyre was similarly loaded. It was
a clever bit of thieving that might have
gone on indefinitely but for the original
villain’s desire to show his mates how
easy it was to overcome the fuel short-
age.
RATS!
“Sydney City Council ratcatchers, whose ‘duties
include interviewing business executives and discuss-
ing methods for achieving their professional objec-
tives,’ 1 are in future to be ‘rodent-exterminators.’ ”
It’s wrong to stigmatise a chap’s vocation
By anything with an invidious sound
When there’s a more euphonious appellation
And equally expressive to be found.
For instance, speaking of Town Hall dictators
And musing on their crotchets and their fads,
I find “municipal administrators”
A more imposing term than “City dads.”
To designate a constable a “copper”
May jar upon the feelings of police
Who naturally hold it far more proper
To be entitled “guardians of the peace.”
And when in some brisk tour de force they’re
actors
Note how much more agreeable it looks
To know they’re “apprehending malefactors”
And not, in vulgar parlance, “nabbing crooks.”
These euphemistic synonyms! How often
For classical derivatives we reach
Mildly to mitigate and subtly soften
The crude asperities of Saxon speech.
The word that some might reckon an infliction
No more antagonises and repels
When decently embodied in the diction
Of Greek or Latin polysyllables.
These experts whom we’re regularly needing
To combat furry pests round marts and quays
May be zoologists of light and leading,
For all you know, with ’Varsity degrees.
Never assume they’re blokes who’ll hump their
load hence
Of scalps for monetary tit-for-tats ;
Their mission is “exterminating rodents,”
Nothing so cheap and mean as “catching
rats.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


*
J
m
M=.
(, y
U
*
X 947
BOOK SUGGESTIONS
FOUR FAMOUS BOOKS
i ISLES OF DESPAIR
By lon L. Idriess
lon Idriess has here seized upon one of
the most thrilling and amazing of all the
true stories connected with the early days
of settlement in Australia. It is the story
of Barbara Thomson, the “White Savage,”
sole survivor of a wreck in which her hus-
band was drowned, who was captured by
members of a primitive tribe and claimed
by them as the dead daughter of their
chief returned to earth.
Illustrated. 9/6 (post 6d.)
2. THE KING’S GENERAL
By Daphne du Maurier
Menabilly stands bare and desolate on the
Cornish coast, its ivy-covered walls hiding
the secret which two people will carry tc
their graves: Honor Harris, so injured as
a girl that she never walked again, and
Sir Richard Grenvile, the King’s General
in the West, resentful, proud, bitter to the
end; the only man Honor ever loved.
12/6 (post 5d.)
3. LORD HORNBLOWER
By C. S. Forester
Horatio Homblower concludes his private
war with Napoleon in this new novel by
Forester. He risks his life and reputation
to cut across the Channel in a ship and
quell a mutiny. He captures a province
and knifes his way into the heart of
France, meeting his old love, Marie, and
very nearly forgetting his glamorous wife,
Lady Barbara, sister of Wellington.
9/6 (post 4d.)
4. THE GREEN YEARS
By A. J. Cronin
“The Green Years” is a deeply-moving
novel which will keep the reader’s emotions
constantly in play. Showing a segment of
life as dramatic as any Dr. Cronin has
pictured, full of humour and excitement,
it is at the same time inspiring in its
spiritual overtones which give its most poig-
nant episodes a warm, comforting glow.
To read it will be a richly rewarding ex-
perience.
12/6 (post 6d.)
FOR THE YOUNG CHILDREN
5. THE COMPLETE ADVEN-
TURES OF SNUGGLEPOT
AND CUDDLEPIE
By May Gibbs
An omnibus of joy containing “Tales of
Snugglepot and Cuddlepie,” “Little Ragged
Blossom” and “Little Obelia.”
Profusely illustrated by the author.
12/6 (post 6d.)
6. THE COMPLETE ADVEN-
TURES OF BLINKY BILL
By Dorothy Wall
The Blinky Bill Omnibus containing the
three books “Blinky Bill,” “Blinky Bill
Grows Up” and “Blinky Bill and Nutsy.”
Profusely illustrated by the author.
12/6 (post 6d.)
7. PEGMEN TALES
By Ella McFadyen
This charming story tells of the doings of
Mrs. Peg and her sons Dan and Nobby, a
lively family of clothespegs who have
come to life.
Coloured and other illustrations.
8/6 (post 4d.)
8. BENJAMIN BUMBLE
By D. H. Gilmore
Benjamin Bumble was a cheerful and hard-
working little bee who lived with his two
lazy brothers Bizz and Buzz under a sunny
bank. Charmingly illustrated and attrac-
tively produced, this is yet another example
of D. H. Gilmore’s gift for telling the sort
of story children most enjoy.
6/- (post 4d.)
FOR BOYS AND GIRLS
9 NEMARLUK: KING Of
THE WILDS
By lon L. Idriess
This is the story of Nemarluk, Chief of
the Cahn-Mah, King of the Wilds, and
the scourge of the Northern Territory
Mounteds.
7/6 (post 4d.)
10. HEADHUNTERS OF THE
CORAL SEA
By lon L. Idriess
An exciting story of the adventures of
two white boys who lived amongst islanders
in the Coral Sea.
7/6 (post 4d.)
11. THE GREAT TREK
By lon L. Idriess
One of the most remarkable expeditions
in Australia was led by two lads. lon
Idriess tells of their adventures on the
1800-mile trip.
7/6 (post 4d.)
12. ANNE OF GREEN
GABLES
By L. M. Montgomery
The first of the famous “Anne” series.
7/6 (post 4d.)
is. ANNE OF AVONLEA
By L. M. Montgomery
The sequel to “Anne of Green Gables.”
7/6 (post 4d.)
Miss Montgomery is one of the most
natural story-tellers of the day. There is
a freshness and sweetness about her work.
14. POPPY FACES THE
WORLD
By Pixie O’Harris
As an art student. Poppy Treloar enters
a new world of absorbing fascination.
She learns to accept responsibility, and
also experiences the delight and disillusion-
ment of youthful romance. For girls from
10 to 15 years. 7/6 (post 4d.)
15. ANNETTE OF RIVER
BEND
By Irene Cheyne
Annette —sparkling, imaginative, impetuous
and loyal—is youth itself —an Australian
Pollyanna. Here are lovable characters
that will live as real people for countless
youngsters.
7/6 (post 4d.)
is. ANNETTE &CO
By Irene CheynJ*
“Annette and C 0.,” a worthy sequel to
the much-loved “Annette of River Bend,”
will win the hearts of readers young and
old.
7/6 (post 4d.)
17. THE LITTLE BLUE
MOUNTAIN
By Irene Cheyne
This is a charming tale, blending the magic
of dream-fantasies with the stir of fun
* and adventure.
7/6 (post 4d.)
18. POLLYANNA
By Eleanor H. Porter
The first of the famous “Pollyanna”
Series.
7/6 (post 4cL)
19. POLLYANNA GROWS
UP
By Eleanor H. Porter
The sequel to “Pollyanna.”
7/6 (post 4d.)
Pollyanna needs no introduction to the
book-loving public. She is now known
and loved by both young and old in every
civilised country in the world.
20. GALLOPING WHEELS
By Will Lawson and Tom Hickey
This is a story of a country boy who ran
away to be an engine-driver. A book
for every reader who has felt the romance
of the galloping wheels.
8/6 (post 4d.).
PRESENTATION EDITIONS OF DELIGHTFUL CLASSICS
21. THE APPLE TREE
By John Galsworthy
In “The Apple Tree,” the author’s most
delicate and poetic tale, Galsworthy has
expressed all human restlessness and long-
ing, all human craving for beauty.
3/9 (post 3d.)
22. THE PERFECT TRIBUTE
By Mary Raymond Shipman
Andrews
A story woven about Abraham Lincoln’s
famous oration at the dedication of the
national cemetery at Gettysburg.
3/9 (post 3d.)
23. THE BAR SINISTER
By Richard Harding Davis
“The Bar Sinister” is a classic. Unques-
tionably one of the greatest dog stories
ever published, and its charm and sim-
plicity will capture the heart of every dog-
lover.
3/9 (post 3d.)
24. THE TURQUOISE CUP
By Arthur Cosslett Smith
This exquisite little love novel has a dainti-
ness and charm that is reminiscent of that
gem of fiction, “The Cardinal’s Snuffbox.”
3/9 (post 3d.)
25. the quiet man
By Maurice Walsh
This short story, with its strong, clear-cut
characters, its humor and its gravity, its
philosophy and its fisticuffs, shows Maurice
Walsh at his very best.
3/9 (post 3d.)
26. MISS EMILY IN BLACK
LACE
By Nina Murdoch
Miss Emily is a gem of character drawing,
warmed with a kindly humour. A prettily
written little holiday romance that will
make an ideal gift book.
3/9 (post 3d.)
27. the wells of
BEERSHEBA
By Frank Dalby Davison, author
of Man-Shy and Dusty
Frank Davison celebrates the part played
by men and horses of the Anzac Mounted
Division in the last great cavalry cam-
paign of modem warfare.
Illustrated by Will Mahoney
3/9 (post 3d.)
28. LITTLE BROWN HOUSE
By Marie C. Oemler
A happy story that will move and delight
all readers. None but the author of “The
Butterfly Man” could have written it.
3/9 (post 3d.)
FOUR SPECIAL SELECTIONS
29. WILDFLOWERS OF
AUSTRALIA
By Thistle Y. Harris
With descriptive letterpress, this volume
portrays over 250 Australian wild flowers
in natural colour from paintings by the
late Adam Foster. And the plants have
been chosen to include, as far as possible,
the commonest wild flowers of all States.
In its new quarto format, with colour
jriates enlarged and more beautifully pro-
duced than before, it is a book that any-
one would be proud to own.
65 plates in colour. 17/6 (post 6d.)
30. THE MAGIC PUDDING
By Norman Lindsay
Here is a new and handsome edition, with
illustrations in colour, of the best-loved
of Australian nursery classics. Witty and
wholesome, “The Magic Pudding” has
enormous zest. Children delight in it,
and grown-ups remember it with abiding
affection.
Illustrated in colour. 12/6 (post 6d.)
31. WALTER MURDOCH:
72 ESSAYS
This new selection comprises the 72 essays
that Walter Murdoch himself values most
highly. That such a stern critic of his own
inimitable work should have chosen the
essays jn this volume is more than suffi-
cient recommendation of their quality.
“How wise, how human, how amusing,
how unconventional he is!”
12/6 (post 6d.)
Books are the ideal gift for young and old
32. FLYING DOCTOR
CALLING
By Ernestine Hill
This is the true story of one of the
greatest human achievements in Australia’s
history—the story of the Flying Doctors.
The people of the Inland, sketched with
sympathy and humour, emerge in unforget-
table reality, and even more striking is
the picture of the land itself, with all its
harsh cruelty and strange beauty. War is
still being waged by heroic men and
women, not against their fellows, but
against suffering, death and the tre-
mendous powers of untamed nature.
Illustrated. 10/6 (post 6d.)
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA


BOOKS FOR THE
GENERAL READER
s
33. BEN HALL THE
BUSHRANGER
By Frank Clune
An exciting and absorbing novel based on
the life of the famous bushranger.
10/6 (post 6d.).
34. BRINDLE ROYALIST
By Henry G. Lamond
An unforgettable picture of outback
Queensland and of the life of man and
beast on the big cattle stations.
8/6 (post 4d.).
35. MINE IS THE KINGDOM
By Elizabeth Webb
The story of a vicar, his wife, and their
four daughters and their conflicts and
emotional storms. 8/6 (post 4d.).
36. CONFLICT
By E. V. Timms
The theme of- this finely-written romance
is the conflict of national policy, of life
and individual passion. 6/- (post 5d.).
37. HALF-WAY TO ANYWHERE
By Norman Lindsay
A study of later adolescence both hilarious
and very wise, wise in its understanding
of the youthful mind and heart.
9/6 (post 6d.)
38. RIGBY’S ROMANCE
By Tom Collins (Joseph Furphy)
The unabridged form of Furphy’s second
novel, full of the same wit and wisdom,
keen observation and abundant humour.
8/6 (post 5d.).
39. THE WITS ARE OUT
By Gavin Casey
Bringing together a group of living and
distinct characters, the central point of
this unusual novel is a keg of beer.
8/6 (post 4d.)
40. READER’S DIGEST READER
Here in one book are presented selected
articles and features of 18 years of “The
Reader’s Digest.” 12/6 (post BdL).
41. ALL THAT SWAGGER
By Miles Franklin
One of the finest and most enduring Aus-
tralian novels. 8/6 (post 6cL).
42. not only in stone
By Phyllis Somerville
A rich study of character and a penetrating
chronicle of family life. 8/6 (post 4d.)
43. the cripple in black
By E. V, Timms
The story of a noble character whose great-
ness of mind overcame his incapacity of
body. 7/6 (post 4d.).
44. LEVIATHAN’S INCH
By Brian Elliott
A warmly human novel of brilliant por-
traiture. 7/6 (post 4d.).
45. CYCLONE
By Vance Palmer
A story of conflict and emotional tension
that reaches its climax and solution in a.
cyclonic storm. 8/6 (post 3d.).
46. the twig is bent
By Capel Boake
A romantic tale set against a background
of early Melbourne. 7/6 (post 4d.).
47. DUSTY
By Frank Dalby Davison
This story of a half-kelpie and his owner
is another masterpiece by the author of
“Man-Shy.” 8/6 (post 4d.).
48. CAPRICORNIA
By Xavier Herbert
A novel of North Australia.
10/6 (post 6d.).
49. THE DEATH OF A
SWAGMAN
By Arthur W. Upfield
The murder of a swagman in a sheep hut
is the theme of this new Upfield detective
story. 8/6 (post 4d.).
so. MAELSTROM
By E. V. Timms
“Maelstrom” gives us back the France of
Richelieu, the France of Mazarin, that
age of magnificent pomp and dismal
misery. 7/6 (post 5d.).
si. PASTORAL SYMPHONY
By J, J. Hardie
The beginnings of Australia’s history form
the background to this stirring pioneering
novel. 6/- (post 4d.).
52. OUT OF THE ROUGH
By Joseph T. Shaw
An easy-to-read, entertaining tale that takes
the reader in hand, corrects his faults and
teaches him the secret of the golf stroke.
7/6 (post 4d.).
53. LAUGHING STOCK
By Bennett Cerf
Over 600 of the latest jokes and anecdotes,
indexed for easy reference.
9/6 (post 6d.).
54. A MAN; A DOG; TWO
HORSES
By J. C. Bendrodt
An ideal gift book for all lovers of animals.
Four delightful and moving stories.
6/6 (post 3d.).
55. SHEEPMATES
By William Hatfield
A vivid picture of life on a large sheep
station, which has not been surpassed by
any Australian writer. 6/- (post 4d.).
56. WHAT ELSE IS THERE?
By Margaret Trist
Her stories are without bitterness, racy
and robust: they accept life and affirm it;
they have about them the warm feel of
the sun and the freshness of earth.
7/6 (post 4d.).
57. DOWNHILL IS EASIER
By Gavin Casey
Told in Gavin Casey’s direct and masculine
style, this novel has the Western Australian
goldfields for its setting.
7/6 (post 4d.).
58. WHEN COBB & CO. WAS
KING
By Will Lawson
A graphic and convincing picture of life
in the early coaching days.
6/- (post 4d.).
59. COOKABUNDY BRIDGE
By Brian James
These are not stories to be read and for-
gotten, but are a distinguished contribution
to our literature. 7/6 (post 3d.).
60. try and stop me
By Bennett Cerf
A collection of humorous anecdotes and
stories. It is a bright and mirth-provoking
book. 12/6 (post Bd.).
61. BET IT’S A BOY
By Betty Bacon Blunt
This hilarious, wordless, pound-by-pound
description of Inf anticipating has reached
its 176th thousand. Fifty side-splitting
illustrations. 5/- (post 3d,).
62. SKYHIGH TO SHANGHAI
By Frank Clune
In this book the author goes rollicking up
to Japan, across to Korea and Manchuria
and China, down to Siam and home again.
15/- (post 6d.).
63. CAMEOS OF CRIME
By M. O’Sullivan
The many exciting, weird and trade ex-
periences of a deputy Commissioner of
Police. 10/6 (post 6d.).
64. BEHIND BAMBOO
By Rohan D. Rivett
The grim and splendid story of the Aus-
tralian prisoners of Japan.
12/6 (post 6d.).
65. A BOOK ABOUT THE BIBLE
By George Stimpson
Here you will find the many odd, interest-
ing and important facts about the Bible
that everybody wants to know.
20/- (post Bd.).
66. YES, YOUR HONOUR
By C. K. Thompson
Humorous, tragic, dramatic and absurd
anecdotes from the law-courts.
8/6 (post 4d.).
67. VOUZA AND THE SOLOMON
ISLANDS
By Hector MacQuarrie
The experiences of a District Officer in
the Solomon Islands.
Illustrated. 10/6 (post 5d.).
68. LITERARY PARTICLES
By R. G. Howarth
Lightness of touch and a finished prose
style distinguish these essays on books
and authors. 6/- (post 3d.).
69. TOBRUK
By Chester Wilmot
The story of the fighting in and around
Tobruk as told by the famous Australian
correspondent and commentator.
Maps and illustrations.
15/- (post 6d.).
70. COLLECTED VERSE OF A. B.
PATERSON
With their tales of bush life and adventure,
their humor and irony, “Banjo” Pater-
son’s ballads are as fresh today as they
ever were. 10/6 (post 4d.).
71. LEAVES FROM A WOMAN
LAWYER’S CASEBOOK
By Marjorie Woodson
Sound advice based on technical knowledge
is presented with humour and understand-
ing.
Illustrated. % 7/6 (post 3d.).
72. AUSTRALIA’S ALPS
By Elyne Mitchell
The standard introduction to the Kosciusko
country.
Illustrated. 12/6 (post 6d.).
73. EVERYMAN’S
MATHEMATICS
By F. G. Brown, 8.A., B.Sc.
Crammed with live information on thou-
sands of points, it teaches the average man
how to work out his daily problems by
applying the basic principles of mathe-
matics. 36/- (post 7d.).
74. GREEN ARMOUR
By Osmar White
The magnificent story of the New Guinea
campaign. 10/6 (post 4d.).
75. POETS OF AUSTRALIA
Chosen by George Mackaness
This comprehensive anthology of Austra-
lian verse covers the whole course of
Australian poetry from 1810.
10/6 (post 4d.).
76. SKYSCRAPERS IN THE MIST
By George H. Johnston
This is an enjoyable book in holiday
mood, giving an Australian’s impressions
and experiences in war-time New York.
10/6 (post 4d.).
77. ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF BIBLE
LIFE
By Madeline S. Miller and J. Lane
Miller
In one volume an unparalleled reference
work for ministers, teachers, libraries and
homes.
100 pages of photographs.
26/- (post 1/-).
78. A WAY OF LIFE
By Sir William Osier, M.D.
An inspiring address delivered to the
students of Yale University by the famous
physician. An ideal small gift book.
4/6 (post 3d.).
79. FLYING TIGERS
By Russell Whelan
The story of the American Volunteer
Group in China and their magnificent air
operations. 7/6 (post 3d.).
so. AUSTRALIAN POETRY 1946
Selected by T. Inglis Moore
Australian Poetry in this anthology is
worthy to be ranked with similar collec-
tions of contemporary writing.
6/- (post 3d.).
81. A BUNCH OF WILD
FLOWERS
By Ida Rentoul Outhwaite
This beautifully-illustrated book of flowers
and fairies will be loved by children.
17 colour plates. 12/6 (post 4d.).
MORE BOOKS FOR YOUNG CHILDREN
82. PADDY BOW WOW
By Hartmut Lahm
The picture story of a dog in search of a
master. Paddy is an endearing fellow.
32 pages of coloured pictures.
Price 4/- (post 3d.).
83. THE wizard of jenolan
By Nuri Mass
The marvels and wonders of the Jenolan
Caves are brought to life.
Illustrated. 6/- (post 4d.).
84. the antics of algy
By Musette Morell
The story of how a lazy ant learnt to work.
Here in simple and entertaining form is a
study of one of the most fascinating
branches of nature.
Delightfully illustrated by Lahm.
6/- (post 3d.).
85. the land of the
TALKING TREES
By Michael Noonan
A fantasy for children set in New Guinea,
concerning the adventures of Private Dusty
among the tiny jungle people. The 14 full-
page coloured illustrations are by D. H.
Gilmore. 8/6 (post 4d.).
86. CHILDREN OF THE DARK
PEOPLE
By Frank Dalby Davison
An Australian story for young folk. This
is a book with very deep roots and a wide
appeal, belonging to the childhood of man
and of time.
Illustrated. 6/- (post 3d.).
87. MAGIC AUSTRALIA
By Nuri Mass
The adventures of Del and Bushbo
through the length and breadth of our
continent —in forest, desert, underground,
undersea and upper air.
Illustrated. 7/6 (post 4d.).
88. THE LITTLE GRAMMAR
PEOPLE
By Nuri Mass
The story tells of the adventures of two
children among the quaint little people who
lie at the roots of our language.
Illustrated. 7/6 (post 4d.).
89. DAVID OF THE STARS
By Irene Cheynd*
Children will love the adventures of David,
and thrill with excitement when he dons a
flying jacket and goes winging off to the
Blue Star. 6/- (post 3d.).
90. THE TALE OF GREGORY
GRASSHOPPER
By D. H. Gilmore
The charming story of a foolish grass-
hopper who was always in trouble.
Illustrated. 6/- (post 4d.).
91. TONY THE TUG
By Ollie Briggs
Tony is a little red tug who chugs up and
down the river, working hard for Mr.
Green and his little boy, Barry.
32 pages of coloured pictures.
4/- (post 3d.).
92. PEGMEN GO WALKABOUT
By Ella McFadyen
The Pegmen are off on their travels again.
They travel to Antarctica; find pearls in
the Pacific; and finish their voyage at
Windsor Castle. A delightful book for
young children. .
Illustrated. 8/6 (post 4d.).
93. SUSAN AND THE
BOGEYWOMP
By Lawson Glassop
Filled with fantastic characters, this is the
story of Susan and her adventures in the
magic upside-down country.
Illustrated. * 7/6 (post 4d.).
94. JUNGLE VAGABONDS
By T. Stuart Gurr
The thrilling adventures of Selim the Tiger
and his jungle friends.
Illustrated. 6/- (post 4d.).
95. THE ADVENTURES OF
CATKIN AND CODLIN
By D. H. Gilmore
Illustrated. 4/6 (post 4d.).
96. THE TALE OF
CHRISTOPHER CRICKET
By D. H. Gilmore
Illustrated. , _ 4/6 (post 4d.).
Two delightful books for young children.
Order these Books from your
Bookseller. Use this form.
ORDER FORM
Please send me numbers
*
(a) for which I enclose payment, (b) charge to my account.
NAME .
ADDRESS
S.B./l l/’47


THE
LONG
LIFE
BATTERY
fcxt^e
EXIDE BATTERIES STILL KEEP GOING
WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
''///I 1
EXIDE BATTERIES
OF AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
*24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
When Matthew Flinders was explor-
ing the South Australian coast in the
Investigator Earl Spencer was president
of the Admiralty Board. Flinders per-
petuated his chief’s name on the Aus-
tralian map in at least three places—
Spencer Gulf, Cape Spencer and Althorp
Island, the last being the seat of the earl
and the courtesy title of his eldest son.
The present Viscount Althorp will
probably be seeing the features named
after his ancestor before long. He has
been appointed A.D.C. to S.A.’s Gov-
ernor, Sir Willoughby Nome. The vice-
regal party arrived back in Adelaide
from Britain last week.
Prof. Horace Belshaw, recently ap-
pointed economic adviser to U.N.0., with
headquarters at Washington, is short of
♦5O, and was formerly in the Chair of
Economics at Auckland University. He
resigned in 1945 to go to New York as
international research secretary for the
Institute of Pacific Relations, and later
bdtame Prof, of Agricultural Economics
at the University of California. Lanca-
shire-born, Belshaw arrived in N.Z.
when a boy, taught in several parts till
he won a travelling scholarship, went to
Cambridge, became Ph.D. and was ap-
pointed lecturer on economics. His
reference book New Zealand, published
by the University of California Press,
sold well in U.S.A.
Walter Crichton, on whom the Liberals
pin high hopes of wresting Moonee Ponds
from Labor, is a First War Digger
who left a leg in France, spent a period
in a German prison camp and has been
prominent in the public life of the dis-
trict for many years. He was a founder
of the Flemington sub-branch of R.S.L.,
a committeeman of Essendon Football
Club for 22 years —president for the last
eight and since 1945 has represented
Hopetoun ward on the City Council.
Eric Muspratt, who is now busy putting
the finishing touches to a biography of
Unk White, has had quite an imposing
list of books published since his first suc-
cess over 20 years ago with My South
Sea Island. That work has gone through
13 impressions, the latest published by
the Travel Book Club this month at the
same time as a paper-back edition from
Duclcworths reaches the shops. Mus-
pratt was born in Essex 48 years ago.
He first hit Australia in 1918 when
he permitted an American steamer
which numbered him among its crew to
sail from Sydney without him. He hiked
to Melbourne, joined the A.1.F., got oyer
the other side just before the Armistice,
came back to Australia and grew coco-
nuts in the Solomons and pineapples in
Queensland. The first venture resulted
in his writing My South Sea Island; the
second sent him carrying his swag all
over the Commonwealth. A ramble
across Europe produced Wild Oats and
The Journey Home; then in a small
schooner he knocked around the isles of
Greece and with a couple of kindred
spirits sailed across the Atlantic and spent
some time in the West Indies. Greek
Seas and Going Native were the fruit of
these adventures. When war broke out
in 1939 Muspratt was in Noumea ; he
joined the A.1.F., transferred to the Navy
and finished up as naval war corre-
spondent in New Guinea, Borneo, the
Philippines and so on to Tokyo. And
See the World, a Commonwealth Literary
Fellowship work, tells this story. The
Unk White book will be an elaborate
production illustrated with many ex-
amples of the artist’s work.
Thumbed his last charcoal, George
Frederick Arthur Belcher, R.A., painter,
etcher and graphic artist, whose sketches
in “Punch” and the “Tatler” immortal-
ised characters of Cockney life,, especially
charwomen and street-corner loungers.
Belcher was born in London (September
19, 1875) and lived there all his life, and
when he died just outside it, at Chid-
dingfold, in Surrey, on October 3, he had
won a fame which, in the “Times’s” esti-
mate, placed him in succession to Row-
landson and Hogarth, He was a member
of “Punch’s” Round Table, and his oil-
sketches and color etchings enlivened the
walls alike of the National Sporting Club
and the Royal Academy. He was elected
an associate of the Academy in 1931 and
a R.A. in 1945. Like Phil May, he
helped to chronicle indelibly that London
of the last days of the horse-drawn buses.
Once again in the news is Ernest Wil-
liam Barnes, Bishop of Birmingham.
Appointed to this position
by Ramsay MacDonald in
1924, he has been the subject
of much criticism. Before
being given his gaiters he
was Junior Dean - of Trinity
College, Cambridge, from
1906 to 1908 and Lecturer in
Mathematics there from
1902 to 1915. Was also a
Master of the Temple from
1915 to 1919 and served as
chaplain to the Bishop of
Llandaff from 1906 to 1920.
He seems to have bitten off
something in his latest book,
as ecclesiastical action ap-
pears certain to be taken against him.
When he obtains his discharge from
the War Office later in the year, Brigadier
C. Scales, M.C., will finish 34 years as
an M.O. in the British Army, Aus-
tralians with the 8.C.0.F. in Japan re-
member the ol’ brig, and his hobby of
philately. Until early this month, he was
deputy-director of medical services with
the 8.C.0.F. He greatly admired the
physique of the Australian soldier. A
Yorkshireman, he has served his country
well in two wars —India, Malaya, Hong
Kong and France in the first, and China,
Egypt, Malta, Iraq in the recent dust-up.
He intends to settle at Alice Springs.
When artist Mcßeath and a Bulletin writer
called on “Bellerive,” whose rhymes have
graced the “Answers to Correspondents”
column for nearly 40 years, they received a
warm welcome. He lives with his wife —“my
greatest living friend,” he calls her—in a freshly-
painted house in an old terrace near Mel-
bourne’s Victoria Markets. He invited them
into a parlor crammed with furniture and old-
fashioned bric-a-brac. There were objects in
glass-cases, a portrait of Lord Byron, photo-
graphs of sailing ships, racehorses and of five
Digger nephews who were killed in World War
I; also an original painting of Carbine and
a framed Digger’s hat. There was also a large
photograph of “Bellerive’s” father, a dignified
old man with a powerful frame, who was a
builder in Dunedin (N.Z.). “Bellerive,” who
prefers to remain anonymous except to the
editor and the accountant, was brought to Aus-
tralia as a baby. His mother was a musician,
his sisters were musicians and dancers and he
was in the show business for a long time. He
has looked after elephants, was a circus clown
and a cornerman in a minstrel show. All his
photos show him a spruce young man looking
very sprightly in a bowler-hat. He got his con-
certina out and entertained his two guests with
“The Last Rose of Summer.” He played
well and also gave a demonstration of the
chimes, whirling the instrument from side to
side as he played.
“Bellerive” began to write verse as a boy,
with the family din all round him, and his
youthful inspiration was Mrs. Hemans, who
wrote “The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck.”
Modern poets are not earthly enough for
“Bellerive,” who always runs to poetry for
solace and claims he writes at least one poem
“BELLE RIVE.”
a night. “Poetry,” he confessed to his guests,
“pursues me like my own shadow.” Despite
his 76 years he is very cheerful, although a
bit shaky on his pins. He didn’t fancy being
sketched by Mcßeath, but relented and hoped
that the artist would endeavor to make a decent
sort of Rip Van Winkle out of him. There is
something of an old windjammer sailorman
about him, and the number of photographs of
ships suggested that he had been one, but
although he loves the sea his acquaintance is
confined to trips down the bay and along the
coast and a visit to Tasmania half-a-century ago.
“Bellerive’s” earliest published verse is reprinted
on page 4 of this issue. A comparison between
it and his latest effort on page 5 bears out
Douglas Stewart’s assertion that no Australian
poet’s work shows such evenness of quality
over so long a period.
John Eldershaw, here caught, hat and
all, by Heth, might reasonably be mis-
ELDERSHAW.
taken for a cattleman from the north or.
a woolman from somewhere out west;
actually he’s an artist, domiciled in Syd-
ney, and president of the Australian
Watercolor Institute. For all that, in the
pursuit of art he covers more territory
than the average grazier in search of
agistment in a bad season. He has re-
cently returned from a six-months ex-
ploration of western and northern
Queensland, finishing up on the Mitchell
River Mission, where, he states, there is
splendid material for painting. His
strength lies in watercolor; he is one of
the finest painters in that medium now
practising in Australia. His range of
travel is reflected in the variety and
spaciousness of his paintings, in his ex-
ploration of light and in the use of a full
clear wash. He painted with Gruner at
Emu Plains (N.S.W.), and the Tasmanian
Government has bought one of his Tas-
manian pictures as a wedding present to
Princess Elizabeth. The Gloucester com-
missioned him to do paintings of beauty
spots round Yarralumla, so the Royal
family probably know his work. Elder-
shaw watercolors will be on exhibition
in Brisbane today.
“T.P.”: Inspector-General of Prisons
(Vic.) for a quarter of a century, J.
Akeroyd, just retired, did formative
educational work as State school inspec-
tor before the 1914-18 world war, which
left him with a legacy of shrapnel and
other mementoes. When a man with
backbone and vision was sought to clean
up the jails director Frank Tate strongly
recommended Akeroyd. Akeroyd was
always prepared to consider suggestions,
and was always accessible to the news-
papers. At a farewell to Chief-Inspector
John Gray he begged lady teachers who
knew him "of old to stop him in the street
for a talk. “I can’t make the advance my-
self,” he said, “because I am often doubt-
ful whether I met the lady in a school or
in a jail. If the latter she would naturally
object to any reminiscence!”
Mapmaker George R. Broadbent, dead
in Melbourne at 84, had more to do with
the making of Victoria’s present magnifi-
cent highways than all the politicians and
Government departments lumped to-
gether. Most of the roads he marked
down so meticulously on his landcharts
he covered per boneshaker, solid 7 tyred
bike and first model tin Lizzie. As
founder of the Good Roads Movement
in Australia (1880), he forced Govern-
ments to attend to their appalling high-
ways, and didn’t let up until the Country
Roads Board was established 35 years
later. Broadbent pioneered cycling in
1880 and motoring in 1898, and, moving
with the times, became organiser and
manager of the R.A.C.V. touring depart-
ment. He published the first Victorian
road-map, now in its 45th year of pub-
lication, and dozens of sectional maps.
The last time he inspected the highways
he went by bike because he could see them
better. On six occasions he broke the
Australian 100-mile record for unpaced
cyclists, and one of his world records —
six hours 20 minutes for 100 miles—still
stands. It was made* on solid tyres.
One of' his house surgeons remembers:
In 1916 Alexander MacCormick was the
leading man of the world’s six best surgeons,
though “old Mac” himself thought the honor
belonged to Murphy of Chicago. Of tremen-
dous physical strength, he had enormous
hands, a gentle touch, was a bit slow in humor,
though his eyes smiled with a twinkle; a
glutton for work, truly kind and charitable and
as honest a man as there was under the sun. He
never criticised another doctor’s mistake'. He
enlisted for three, wars —Boer, World I and 11;
he had no time for a slacker who did not
enlist if able. He was a perfect anatomist-
read Cunningham’s Anatomy for 15 minutes
every day. He never read novels and had
no time for music other than simple Scots
ballads. His “asepsis” was perfect. He was
conservative^ —never operated if non-operative
measures could cure, no matter how long they
took. That’s why he was a good surgeon.
Melbourne has a one-armed artist in
Napier Waller, who, after losing his
right arm in World War One, cultivated
the other until he was able to execute
the huge murals in the Town Hall. In
Emery Poole the city also has a one-
eyed artist. An Englishman who came
to Australia under the lure of a gold
rush, he lost all his money and one of
his eyes on the Westralian goldfields.
Subsequently he settled in Melbourne
and became a leading illustrator for the
dailies. In his later days he devoted him-
self to bookplate designs and creating a
fairytale world in line and color which,
whatever it does, doesn’t show the
slightest influence of Walt Disney. Loss
of an eye has proved no detriment to him
artistically, though he uses a magnifying-
glass when working. He recently held a
show at the Park Galleries.
Monte Holcroft, who won the Hubert
Church Memorial Prize last year with
his collection of essays, Tireless World,
has carried off the same prize this year
with Encircling Seas. The prize is
awarded annually by the M.L. P.E.N.
Club for prose work. Holcroft is editor
of the “Southern Times” and his essays
and works of fiction have established him
among the Dominion’s foremost writers.
His essay “The Deepening Stream” won
the Centennial Literary Competition in
1940.
The vacancy created in Maoriland’s
Ministry by the death of James O’Brien,
will be,filled by T. H. McComb, member
for Lyttelton. Born in Christchurch 43
years ago he was educated at Canter-
bury and Waitaki High Schools and
Canterbury Uni. Parliamentary Under-
Sec. to Finance Minister Nash has been
his job of late. The Lyttelton seat has
been held by a McComb since 1913.
When James McComb died in 1933, his
wife, Elizabeth, captured the seat and held
it—the first woman M.P. in M.L. She
died two years later and her son, T. H.,
succeeded her. He is a Master of Science
With honors in Chemistry, and devoted
some time to wheat culture before Parlia-
mentary ambition beckoned him.
Dead in Melbourne at 77, Herbert
Thomson, Australian pioneer of the
motor-car. His “horseless carriage in
1896 was the first successful motor vehicle
seen by Australians. Its first public run
on the Malvern Cricket Ground attracted
an Australia-wide gathering. He drove
it from Bathurst to Melbourne in 10 days
at 8.72 m.p.h. on 42 gallons of kerosene.
When 12 he made his first steam engine.
Seven years later he was steaming up the
Yarra in a launch powered by another
of his early engines. Thomson built the
first motor vehicle for the Melbourne Fire
Brigade.
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 67, Henry Gilbert, president
and life governor of Adelaide Children s H? s ‘
pital. Born at Williamstown (S.A.), he studied
medicine at Adelaide and Melbourne Umversi-
ties, graduated at Melbourne and after lurtner
studies in Britain became a F.R.C.S. He
joined the hospital staff in 1907 and was ap-
pointed president in 1934. In World War I he
served with the A.A.M.C.
In Sydney. Harold Earlam, for 35 years
superintendent of the N.S.W. Institution for the
Deaf, Dumb and Blind. Born in England,
he early resolved to make the care of the deat
his life’s work and joined the Liverpool In-
stitution for the Deaf in 1897. The Sydney
appointment came in 1911, and soon after he
arrived in Australia he began to urge com-
pulsory education for the blind and deat.
He lived long enough to see this realised.
Three weeks before his death the Education
Department invited him to join an advisory
1 committee on the education of the deaf
1 In Melbourne, at 86, Edward Findley, former
: Victorian Senator. Born at Bendigo he drifted
to the city to become M.L.A. at 40. He was
expelled for reprinting an article on Albert
Edward—“ Foul Libel on the King’ the Argus
called it. From 1903 to 1919 and again from
1922 to 1929 he was a Senator.


CEYLON ASSOCIATION.
It is suggested to form a Ceylon Association
in Sydney. Any ex-residents interested should
ring H. W. Hawkeswood, 8W1847.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
Today is the great day at Government
House. Marjorie, elder daughter of the
Governor, Lieut.-General John North-
cott, is busy preparing for her wedding
to Major Donald Coburn this after-
noon. Everything is in order: the
five-tiered wedding cake, made in
the vice-regal kitchen, is in its place of
honor; the reception rooms are ablaze
with roses and delphinium and other
horticulture from the home garden. The
jedding will be celebrated in St. An-
drew’s Cathedral; Sydney’s Archbishop
H. W. K. Mowll and Major-General the
Reverend C. A. Osborne blessing the
vows while a full burst of choir boys add
choral accompaniment to the whole.
According to information received,
Mrs. Northcott’s frock will be of brightly-
patterned silk, while the ’groom’s mother,
Mrs. E. R. Coburn, who arrived from
England some time ago for the wedding,
will wear dove-grey crepes. The wedding
frock has a close-fitting bodice of silver
lame starred with tiny blue and silver
flowers. Its skirt of blue-white chiffon
is very full and graceful, its train very
long. The veil is of Honiton lace
mounted on tulle. Sister Elizabeth,
Sheila Graham and Sheila Collett will
’maid in full-skirted frocks of blue-white
nylon. Government House will throw
its doors wide to over 300 guests for the
reception.
There is only one flower you can
wear next Friday—it is the poppy. On
that day, November 7, the United Re-
turned Soldiers’ Fund will benefit by
every poppy bought by Mr. and Mrs.
and Miss New South Wales. For 28
years the public has worn its poppy with
a great sorrow and a great pride. On the
first days of remembrance there were the
dead of World War I to be commemor-
ated. Now, alas, there are the dead of
still another world war to bear in mind,
and, remembering, we will buy our
poppies. In honoring the dead we will
be helping the living soldier —the sick
and the mainled.
Back to Australia in the Orion came
two local girls who have made good.
They were the Dowager Countess of
Kenmare (formerly Enid Lindeman, of
Sydney) and Lady de Bathe, who was
born in Adelaide. With the Countess
of Kenmare came her daughter
Patricia Cavendish and her sons
Roderick Cameron and Caryll Cavendish.
This is the countess’s first visit to Aus-
tralia for 19 years. Dr. Grant Linde-
man was down at the ship to greet his
sister. On her first visit to Australia is
Lady Brooke, widow of Admiral Sir
Basil Brooke, who was treasurer to the
Queen. Lady Brooke will be guest of the
Overseas Club next Friday, when a buffet
lunch will be given in her honor.
The Health Week Exhibition in the
Town Hall was opened by the Governor,
Lieut.-General John Northcott. The place
was so crowded that next year the com-
mittee might organise a plan to run the
exhibition in the Domain on the site of
the Chelsea Flower show —the atmos-
phere would certainly be less enervating.
Popular were the Anti-T.B. display with
its free X-rays-Miere was a never-ending
queue; the St. John Ambulance clinic
complete with patient reclining on bed
languidly waving a fan. Then there
was the road - traffic quiz. A line
of illuminated photographs showed every
conceivable mistake of human and
vehicle. Below was another line of
photos showing the way to avoid the
accident inevitable in the picture above.
These came to life when you pressed a
button. It was quite a game.
According to Minister for Health Kelly,
it’s just sheer cussedness that causes us
to be ill. In his speech in Martin-
place during Health Week he told
that the State each year spends £33,000
telling the people how to keep healthy,
bat that the advice is often ignored. Well,
all this Letter can say is that it’s not
much use telling people to drink more
milk, and eat more salads, when the prices
of both are on the up and up. Stimulus,
however, was given to milk consumption
by newspaper photographs showing the
Minister for Health and Prof. Harvey
Sutton (both healthy-looking lads) absorb-
ing bottles of milk through straws at
the Health Week lunch in Anthony
Horderns.
Major and Mrs. Manley, who were
among the home-comers in the Orion
last Wednesday, found the Customs
ordeal the most strenuous going of their
long sea and land trek. There were so
many passengers, such mountains of
luggage, that finally the two fled the
Customs sheds, and made for the Kirri-
billi yacht squadron, where lunch with
friends awaited them. England, America,
Switzerland, Sweden (glorious food and
hotels) were some of the countries they
visited. Mr. Manley reports clothes in
Paris superb, but prohibitive in price,
clothes in London impossible to buy ow-
ing to coupon restrictions, and clothes in
New York, as smart as paint, and just as
New York-ish as ever. Skirts in the last-
named capital are getting longer and
longer. In Paris only the trig little figures
of the women prevented their looking
almost dowdy in the streets, so down-
wards droop the skirts. But London can’t
afford the extra material, so skirts are
calf-length, and the women and the manu-
facturers are determined they will stop
there.
It was in Washington that Mrs.
Manley bought the frock of her heart.
She and the wife of General John Chap-
man, of the Australian Military Mission,
did an afternoon’s shopping at the ex-
clusive little shop run by Sydney’s old
friend, Mrs. Wilson Flake. This frock
is a cocktail or dinner number. It has
a long skirt of black flat crepe. Above
this is a blouse of heavy white crepe,
the sleeves of which can be worn long,
or pushed up into bell-effect. The white
background is completely covered with
women’s heads, their hair sleekly dressed
and ornamented with ostrich plumes.
Heads and feathers are all worked in
opalescent sequins.
N.S.W. Agent - General Tully and
Mrs. Tully gave a cocktail party in
their super flat to farewell the Manleys.
Mrs. Manley’s first request to her friends
in Australia is “Don’t waste a spoonful
of dripping, England needs it all.”
Pat Keating in the name part is one
of the reasons _why the revival of “No,
No, Nanette” is such a success. Pat is a
Melbourne girl, has been dancing since
she was seven and might be called a
Jennie Brennan honors student. She has
danced and sung in pantomime, ballet
and musical comedy.
Patricia Gibson, of Riversleigh, Forbes,
and Kim Patterson announced their en-
gagement last week. Patricia is the elder
daughter of the Herbert Gibsons ; Kim
is the only son of the George Pattersons
of Bellevue, Hill, and of the well-known
advertising firm.
The Smilin’ Thru Club never forgets
its special pets, the boys at the 113th
Repatriation Hospital. Now the mem-
bers are busy on the fund for giving the
lads a cheery Christmastide. Last Sun-
day night there was a gay Riviera party
at the home of June Russell, Dover
Heights. In addition to dancing, compe-
titions and a phantom broadcast of the
1947 Melbourne Cup there were turns
by theatrical and radio stars. The occa-
sion was also an au revoir to Myra
Dempsey, founder and president of the
club. Myra goes off to the country for a
health holiday amid tranquil Nature.
Josephine Rienits, who produced
Priestley’s play “The Long Mirror,”
a Kuringai Theatre Guild presentation,
has been connected with the theatre for
some years, both as amateur and profes-
sional. During the war years she was
one of the Tin Alley Players at
Melbourne University.
Everyone who loves a thriller is talking
about Agatha Christie’s The Hollow and
Mignon Eberhart’s White Dress.
Mrs. Tony Pfeiffer got back to town
from her trout-fishing holiday in time
for the Spring Carnival at Prince’s. This
was last week’s big effort for Legacy,
and probably this ballroom has never
welcomed a more radiant company. Mrs.
Pfeiffer, who is secretary of the enter-
tainment group which fan the dance,
wore a bouffant frock of black net glitter-
ing with sequins. She gave a dinner-
party before the dance, and among her
guests was Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones,
graceful in almond-green chiffons. Pink
moire was worn by Mrs. Lionel McFad-
yen, who was president of the ball. Black
lace over pale-pink satin was worn by
Mrs. Lennox Bode.
From Melbourne
The 1947 Derby was notable for its
recapture of pre-war glamor—even a rash
of grey toppers broke out among the
men! The real race-frock and -hat made
a welcome reappearance. But hats were
the real winners in the fashion race ; the
large cartwheel creation of fijmy tulle or
fragile silk straw lent an air of flippance
and gaiety and an invitation to summer.
Only a few bowed to the dictates of the
manufacturers who, in league with
Paris, decided on the longer skirt; and
those who did looked dowdy. The flared
pephim on coats was popular, and coats
with nipped-in waists featured full-flared
skirts with, perhaps, one or two unpressed
pleats at the back. Bustles and bows
on frocks were seen dotted round the
lawns.
Mrs. Gordon Chirnside chose a bustle
frock of black moire taffetas. As she
walked the back-buttoning skirt revealed
a few inches of black underskirt with its
deep hem of fine lace. Mrs. Lionel New-
ton wore a green-patterned frock with a
hat of pale-cream straw which had the
edge of the wide brim sewn at intervals
with creamy tulle roses. Mrs. John Mol-
lard’s hat of natural straw was crown-
less, the edge of the brim trimmed with
roses of black tulle. With her bolero
suit of navy wool Mrs. W. Hill Smith,
of Adelaide, wore a frilly white blouse
and sash of colored striped silk; her
small hat with its ostrich feathers set
at the back picked up the sash tonings.
Sydney visitor Mrs. John V. Clayton was
a devotee of the black ensemble, her
black frock highlighted with a Chantilly
Jace yoke, her large black straw hat
trimmed with deep pink roses and veil-
ing. Mrs. J. Kauffman’s navy jacket suit
had the pockets and sleeves trimmed with
blue beads, the skirt being fully pleated ,
her small navy-blue hat was trimmed
with veiling. Mrs. Neville Palmer wore
a dusty-pink crepe frock with three-
quarter sleeves ending in deep cuffs and
a cartwheel hat of natural straw edged
and banded in aqua velvet. A two-tone
ensemble was Mary Morris’s choice ; over
a royal-blue Angora jacket suit she wore
a burgundy wool romaine coat; her small
burgundy hat was banded in blue. The
skirt of Mrs. John Linton’s banana-
yellow jersey frock had unpressed pleats ;
navy blue her small bonnet. Mrs. Frank
Davies was smart in eggshell-blue wool
suit and large natural-straw hat simply
trimmed with beige silk ribbon. Mrs.
Ken Hooper’s grey ensemble and cart-
wheel hat of black silk straw with a
double edging of black tulle was a notable
combination.
Mrs. Tim Jones favored burgundy and
grey floral under a burgundy wool coat;
her small burgundy straw hat was clus-
tered with grey flowers. Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell’s neat navy ensemble went with
a wide-brimmed hat which had a navy
ostrich feather curling round the crown.
Mrs. Norman Spry’s suit was of navy and
white checks ; her large white hat had
a brilliant red satin band and bow for
trimming. Mrs. Leslie Sangster’s en-
semble was nut-brown, her small hat of
brown and green feathers. With her gay
cerise wool suit Mrs. Basil Glowrey wore
sage-green gloves, her small cerise hat
being untrimmed. Her mother, Mrs. H.
C. Hooper, wore a patterned frock of
green and yellow, a green coat with large
beige fox collar and green straw hat
sporting one large yellow rose. Mrs.
Maurice Nicholas repeated the tonings
of her floral frock in her shoes, which
were composed of red, green, yellow
and blue suede straps. Mrs. J. T. Dowd’s
navy suit was patterned with a green
diagonal stripe. With it was worn a small
navy hat trimmed with matching cherries.
Mrs. Morris Sallman’s hat was a lovely
thing of white silk straw, very wide of
brim, under one side of which were two
hand-made white roses. Her daughter,
Mrs, Eric Abrahams, allied black and
yellow silk with a hat of bright yellow
straw and matching accessories.
That redoubtable champion of war
widows’ rights Mrs. G. A. Vasey has
organised the War Widows’ Craft Guild
so energetically and capably that its shop
at 437 Collins-street is now an established
concern. Welcoming the guests to the
party which celebrated this happy in-
auguration Mrs. Vasey, tailored in navy
with, white pin stripe and small sailor hat
with a floral touch, said her committee
was optimistic as to the welfare of the
Craft shop. Among other articles visitors
were given a glimpse of the cushion cover
which is being woven by the guild as
their gift to Princess Elizabeth. The
material is pure silk woven with gold
thread, and it has a bird design in the
centre. Among committee members
present were Mrs. Rupert Downes, wear-
ing a burgundy coat over her grey frock
and a feathered burgundy hat; Mrs.
Hamilton Sleigh, in navy with an off-the-
face navy-and-white-striped hat; and
vice-president Mrs. W. A. Robinson, in
black wool dressmaker suit and azure-
blue hat and accessories.
One of the big Derby Day parties was
that given by U.S. Consul-General
Richard F. Boyce and Mrs. Boyce, at
Fairlie Court, their South Yarra home.
Guest-of-honor was Harold Shantz,
Charge d’Affaires at the U.S. Embassy,
Canberra. The U.S. Cousul, Ralph H.
Hunt, and Mrs. Hunt, with the Vice-
Consuls, Messrs. Martin P. Blackmun,
Armistead M. Lee, Herbert Leggett and
the recently-arrived Vemon Zirkle, and
their wives assisted Mr. and Mrs. Boyce
at the party. The 80 guests included
Commander G. H. Gill and his wife (well-
known artist Esther Paterson, who has
just completed a portrait of Mrs. Boyce,
which was hung in the drawing-room).
Mrs. d’Ranatz, wife of the Netherlands
Charge d’Affaires, was outstanding in a
white jacket suit and large white straw
hat. Mrs. Boyce received her guests
wearing a long black evening skirt and
black velvet jacket with a deep white
Venetian point-lace, collar. Among other
gtiests were Mrs. Herbert Allen, the
Norman Robinsons, Mesdames S. Saar
and Ralph Michaelis and Mr. and Mrs.
L. J. McConnan.
Broothorn took this portrait of Mrs.
Maie Hoban, who leaves in January for
the U.S., where under the direction of
the English-speaking Union she will tour
and lecture on the “Cultural Develop-
ment of Victoria.” Mrs. Hoban is the
principal of the Australian School of
Speechcraft and Drama, and while in
America she will study remedial speech
at well-known clinics. She is also the
director of the Pilgrim Theatre, which
she established some years ago and which
has since fostered much young Austra-
lian talent, including Gwenda Wilson,
Pat Kennedy and Keith Hudson.
Guests bidden to a party by Mrs. D. E.
Rowlands found when they arrived that
the hostess had two months before
changed her name to Mrs. L. V. Ottaway.
•General Thomas Blarney proposed the
toast of the newly-wedded couple, and
Tom and Diane Ottaway and Fred Row:
lands, the former Mrs. Rowlands’s son,
and his wife heartily endorsed it. At the
party were Mrs. Ross Macfarlan, in red-
and-white-spotted organdie ; Jean Camp-
bell, who heightened the Spanish effect of
her red-and-black frock with a high comb
in her hair; Madame Paulette Pol, in a
black ballerina frock ; Mrs. David Body-
comb, in black lace and tulle. Diane
Ottaway was in blue taffetas with red
roses at the neckline.
Three hundred guests accepted the in-
vitation of Mrs. Tim Jones, her son Ben
and daughters Betty and Pat to a dance
at Ripponlea on Derby night. Mrs.
Jones received her guests in a black
gown which featured a filmy black tulle
scarf. Betty wore a crinoline frock of
hyacinth-blue taffeta ; Pat chose a white
gown and white Arctic-fox coat. A gown
of grey crepe was chosen by Mrs. J. E.
Shilliday, who was accompanied by her
medico husband and daughter Wanda, the
latter in a bouffant frock of red-and-
white-spotted organdie with red ribbon
threaded through the waist and the deep
flounce Of the skirt. Mrs. John Linton
was in deep royal-blue net and tied her
fair hair with a royal-blue velvet ribbon ;
her mother, Mrs. Lionel Newton, wore a
bouffant frock of black net. Gloria
Ladd’s moire gown featured the off-the-
shoulder style; Merle Tomkins’s frock
of black tulle had panels of black Chan-
tilly lace. The bodice of Mrs. M.
Nathan’s gown was heavily encrusted
with sequins and gold beads, the skirt
draped ; over it was worn a three-quarter-
length cape which had the shoulders
corded and ornamented with gold sequins
and beads. Lil Wightman’s flowing gown
was of beech-brown tulle; Mrs. H.
Simpson was in black velvet with the
top of the bodice finished with white
ermine, which also formed the shoulder
straps.


Missing Friends.
TO JOSEPH O’LEARY formerly
of Victoria House Victoria Street East Melbourne m
the State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife BETA NOEL O’LEARY has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne on or before the
Twenty-first day of December 1947 and file your
answer therein on or before the Thirty-first day of
December 1947 the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs.—RAYMOMJ
HUDSON DUNN, of 421 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner. _____
' LIEBIG—NEXT-OF-KIN SOUGHT. ~
WILL ANY PERSON having any information which
might be of assistance in tracing the whereabouts
of FREDERICK CHRISTIAN LIEBIG, also known
as Frederick Frame (who is believed to have been
born in Western Australia in or about the year
1905) please communicate with the PUBLIC TRLS-
TEE 412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria, who is
the administrator of the estate of Ernest William
Liebig, deceased.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce,
TO WILLIAM HAINING formerly of King Street
Newtown.—TAKE NOTICE that LUCY JANE
BERTHA HAINING has filed a Petition for Divorce
No 1324 of 1947 on the grounds of desertion
Without just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and the Court is being asked to exercise its
discretion in favour of the Petitioner under Section
19 12) (a) If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Pl Street Sydney by the 24th day of November
1947 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from D. W. MACPHERSON, of No. 21 Prince
Street Grafton, Solicitor, or his Sydney. Agents,
MESSRS. T. MARSHALL MARKS & JONES of 67
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Solicitors.—(l.s.) C, K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
The R.S.L. at Canberra.
“Ek Dum”: The conference of the :
R.S.L., held at Canberra, stirred the dry
bones of departments in, more than one
way. The' “Government” is becoming
more and more uneasy about the habit 1
powerful bodies have developed of hold-
ing meetings on the doorstep of Parlia-
ment during sittings.
It disturbs the peace of the place. It
makes it difficult for Ministers to evade
main issues which seem remote abstrac-
tions when they are, discussed a few
hundred miles from the unrealities of a
capital in which any movement in the
streets looks like a riot in a Californian
cemetery.
Ward’s New Guinea
Among the matters which had airings
last week were conditions in New
Guinea, which were dealt with so effec-
tively by Colonel H. T. Allan, of Mont
St. Quentin and Tobruk, that even the
jeering Minister was moved to promise
an “investigation,” which should not be
needed if he is doing his job.
The colonel painted pictures of natives
housed in model dwellings at the cost of
Commonwealth taxpayers, and of one
village (it was destroyed by accident) re-
built at a cost of £150,000, while white
women lived in tents and shacks in a
mass of mildew, and returned soldiers,
prepared to pioneer the worst climate
within the Australian ambit, were denied
the rights of land settlement, war-service
homes and repatriation.
According to Colonel Allan conditions
are such that Australia may not be able
to hold the country; and he is right.
Apart from the fact that New Guinea is
already a gangrenous mass of red-tape
and maladministration, the chances are
that soon every individual in the islands
who is not the representative of a big
monopoly company—the only kind which
receives any favors from the supposed
enemies of monopoly who “govern” the
islands —will abandon it to the tender
mercies of Brown Brother, who will soon
be infiltrated by Indonesian Communists
in the process of trying to add New
Guinea to the Greater Soviet Empire.
Widows’ Pensions
A second matter which came up for
discussion, and which was dealt with by
a deputation to Minister Barnard (Re-
patriation) that asked for 32 other
changes in repatriation benefits, was a
claim for an increase of £1 a week in the
basic war widows’ pension of £2 15s.
Mr. Barnard, however, presented a
stony front to the proposition that he
should add £1 per week to the allow-
ance to widows without dependants,
though he promised overall considera-
tion of the general request.
He believed, he said airily, that such
women should be “encouraged to take
full employment, improve their standard
of living and mingle with people of their
own age.” His policy was “to encour-
age them to take their place in society,”
and he was “not going to encourage
them not to become employed.”
This is the miserable socialist attitude
of a man to whom regimentation is every-
thing, and it has no justification from
the point of view of humanity, justice or
the equitable obligations of the country.
Some of these women are frail and sick.
All have suffered grief and loss and the
complete dislocation of their lives. If
their husbands had been run over on the
way to work instead of dying in battle
or through illness on service in circum-
stances of year-long anxiety, culminating
in grief to their dependants, they would
have received lump sums running into
thousands of pounds.
Their cases are, however, different
from such civilian cases. Their hus-
bands were in most cases volunteers.
They themselves were parties to the vol-
untary sacrifice, and they should be
assured of the right not merely to a bare-
bone pittance which would scarcely buy
food for them much less pay their rent,
but to a sufficient income to assure them
that they will be able to continue the
domestic life which they could have ex-
pected had their husbands lived, even if
they cannot enjoy the improvement of
circumstances which age and promotion
would have brought most* of them through
their men. The sum should be sufficient
to mark also, in every case, whether they
be childless or have children, the gratitude
of the country, and the means, test, as
requested by the R.S.L., should not enter
into the question.
Australia came out of the war with a
comparatively small death-roll. And we
can, therefore, especially afford to be
generous. Any decent man must stand
appalled at the attitude of this “Labor”
Minister, whose most generous gesture
was contained in the remark that he “had
some sympathy” with requests which the
deputation made to him, though he would
not agree to any all-round increases. He
had a few weeks ago shown no reluct-
ance to support an increase in Parlia-
mentary salaries equal to three whole
war-widows’ pensions, and to a further
thumping increase in Ministerial salaries,
in contempt of the “Government’s” own
wage-pegging regulations.
Decorations Held Back
Another matter upon which members
of the conference showed justifiable heat
was the withholding of 200 United States
decorations, recommended by General
MacArthur for various types of gallant
service, but held up by the Government.
The matter was raised by Brigadier
A. S. Blackburn, V.C., who said that the
men involved were members of the Allied
Information Bureau who had done dan-
gerous commando work in enemy terri-
tory.
Recommendations made at the same
time for awards to British and Polish
“And Well make this the eighteenth hole, Prendergast."
soldiers doing the same work had been
granted in full.
The president, Eric Millhouse, K.C.,
said that though (as Brigadier Blackburn
had stated) there was information that the
list of names had been handed to Dr.
Evatt in Japan, no one had been able to
find out whether the Government had
even considered the recommendations’.
Colonel Allan said that he had been
associated with some of the men, many
of whom were now dead, and for two-
o’clock-in-the-morning courage he knew
nothing better than their records.
Mr. Dedman fell back on the excuse
of “one decoration, one action.” Passing
the buck according to “Labor” custom, he
blamed the British Government for insist-
ing on the principle, and also on an
arrangement under which the number of
British awards from foreign countries to
British servicemen should equal the
number of British awards to foreign ser-
vicemen. He said that the matter had
been taken up with the U.K. authorities.
But this is a quibble. The King in the
matter of decorations acts on the advice
of his Australian commanders and Min-
isters, and this principle is well estab-
lished.
Mr. Dedman’s tale is merely one more
feeble evasion.
Brink of Civil War.
•‘Ek Dum”: As the cold weather
approaches matters in India come closer
to crisis.
On October 28 it was reported that the
Maharaja of Kashmir, Sir Hari Singh, had
left Srinagar for Jammu, where he will be
lodged in a Hindu area.
Before leaving he appointed an in-
terim Government headed by one of
Kashmir’s majority Moslems, himself
head of the Kashmiri Congress party, who
is brigaded with a Hindu minority
Premier in a supposedly common object
of unity with India in preference to
Pakistan. Sir Hari Singh announced this
as his policy.
This action was taken at the point
when the Moslem invaders) were only 30
miles from the capital, being held back
by Sikh troops who had been flown in.
The Maharaja’s attitude had compli-
cated matters somewhat, since he had
accused Pakistan of forcing a premature
decision from him as to where his future
allegiance lies. His demand for time to
consider his position is linked not very
diplomatically with suggestions that the
arming of the Moslem invaders cannot
have been achieved with official Pakistan
help.
All through the week there was a dis-
ordered sort of fighting, owing to the fact
that most of the Afridis and other Pakis’-
tanians adventuring in the far north are
in “plain clothes,” capacious enough to
hold a whole armory. And though the
Sikhs are efficient in this kind of guerrilla
warfare, having training and discipline
which are always too much for the “par-
tisan,” there are not yet enough Sikhs.
If the Kashmiris secure Dogra troops,
officially or unofficially, as they may, it
will be a good fight. The situation is the
more difficult since the Moslems have
field artillery. s
On October 30 it was reported that the
attack was moving in the wrong direc-
tion toward Srinagar, but new support
Was being flown in hurriedly in a variety
of aircraft, much of it piloted by Britons
and some Australians. By November 2
fighting was in progress in the Srinagar
suburbs.
Towards the week-end the' main ques-
tion of interest lay in speculation as to
what the Government of Pakistan might
be tempted to do, especially in view of
provocative and partial statements by
Premier Nehru of India, himself a Kash-
miri, and the fact that the bulk of the
Kashmiris are Moslems.
Sheikh Abdullah, the Congress-party
leader, is moving swiftly for a plebiscite
supervised jointly by Pakistan and India.
It is difficult to see the overwhelming
Moslem majority voting for allegiance
to India or the Hindu minority or India,
governed by Nehru, bowing down to a
Moslem Government. One of the wilder
Moslem provinces of Kashmir is in re-
volt.
A Perilous Position
The only thing which at present stands
between India as a whole and civil war
over Kashmir and other problems is the
wisdom and British coolness of the Vice-
roy and his experienced advisers, who
are more generally trusted than all the
rabble of Congress agitators into whose
hands the country has fallen.
At the end of last week they were en-
deavoring to compose the situation by
negotiation. This originally was to have
been held at Lahore on October 29. But
Pandit Nehru was that day “indisposed.”
The position of the British officers still
in India forms something of a key to the
military situation. Sir Claude Auchin-
leck, joint C.-in-C., is reported to have
stated that if the two Dominions came to
blows all British officers and Dominion
Cs.-in-C. must resign.
That this would leave both Indian
native armies! a mere rabble is a side
issue. The important fact is that a
general with so cool a head and so close
a knowledge of India should feel that he
needed to say it. His announcement was
apparently prompted by the knowledge
that Mr. Jinnah had suggested to General
Gracey that he should send Pakistan
troops to defend Srinagar against India’s
Sikhs. Had the order been carried out
India and Pakistan would be at war.
Korea and Jap Prisoners.
“Ek Dum”: The Far-Eastern situation
is going the way of all situations “con-
trolled” by U.N.O. and Allied agree-
ments.
One bone of contention is Korea, which
is due to become a “nation.” On the
Russian side of the dividing line it is
already an armed nation—armed and
trained by the Russians with non-Com-
munist elements wiped out.
On the American side little has been
done to regiment political feeling and
nothing to arm the multitude.
The United States has proposed that
Korea shall become united on March 31
under a provisional Government, Ameri-
can and Russian troops remaining till
after that date to see fair play, and with-
drawing in terms to be determined by
negotiation.
Russia’s plan is that all troops of the
Allies should be withdrawn by January
1, leaving the Koreans to choose their
Government without interference.
Arrangements, of course, have already
been made in the Russian zone to see
that, in this event, nobody will be able
to interfere with the plan to place Korea
under complete Communist domination,
with Russia as tutor and supervisor. This
has little or no appeal to other allies;
less even than some other proposals
to mature when the Japanese peace treaty
comes up for discussion.
One of these will be trade-unionist
organisation of Japan, for which Mos-
cow and its Australian satellites are
working.
Jap P.-0.-w.
The other question will be that of
Japanese prisoners-of-war who, like an
unspecified number of German and
Italian prisoners-of-war, are still in Soviet
hands. Virtually all other p.-0.-w. have
been sent back to their own countries or
otherwise reasonably provided for in
accordance with the agreements.
Mr. W. J. Sebald (U.S.) said at a meet-
ing of the Allied Council for Japan that
the U.S.S.R. had agreed in December,
1946, to repatriate 50,000 persons a
month. He declared that it was esti-
mated that more than 761,000 were still
in Soviet-controlled areas.
General MacArthur, he added, was
ready, if the Soviet Government would
agree, to accelerate repatriation to
131,500 men within a month and to
160,000 within another month, indeed, to
bring every Jap p.-0.-w. home within
five months. Anglo-American shipping
is, of course, making all the transfers.
Instead of bringing the men home the
Russians, he said, were telling their cap-
tives that the British and Americans
were responsible for their non-repatria-
tion.
Tippoo’s Methods
The Russian delegate, General Kis-
lenko, denied all charges id the
customary brusque and unfriendly Rus-
sian manner, asserting that 562,000
Japanese had been repatriated from the
Russian zones and that “there has ob-
viously been a tendency to incite un-
friendly feelings between Japan and the
Soviet Union.”
There are well-informed people who
believe that the Jap p.-0.-w. will never
see home, save as formations of an in-
vading army.
Russia’s methods of dealing with
p.-0.-w. recall those of Tippoo Sahib in
Mysore in the eighteenth century.
P.-o -w. who refused Tippoo’s overtures
to become Moslems and join his armies
disappeared in short order.


Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Bank Bill and “Employment
What is the result of a central-Govern-
ment policy of “full employment” that
satisfies its sponsors when everyone has
a pay-envelope each week, regardless of
the quantity, quality, cost or desirability
of the goods and services produced by
those in receipt of the pay?
On evidence available over a period
of years the answer is: “Inflation and a
production depression.”
Money possessing no more of a defi-
nite character than face value is extremely
easy to create. It is a matter of printing
notes or making entries in bank ledgers.
But money so created has an exchange
value only equal to its ratio with the
amount of goods available. Its buying-
power, in other words, is restricted to
the quantity of goods and services created
in return for the issue of the money.
The present “Labor” party in Canberra
has but the vaguest ideas about produc-
tion, about the costs factor, about de-
velopment of our resources, about win-
ning markets abroad that will enable us
to buy overseas goods in return for our
exports. It has greatly damaged our
prospects of trade —vital reciprocal trade
—with the Netherlands Indies because of
its attitude towards the “Indonesian
question.” It is not much interested in
the solvency of private industry, or in
the effects of heavy taxation on urgently
needed industrial expansion. Its regula-
tions and red-tape have a most restric-
tive effect upon the efficient production-
and marketing of goods.
But, while it avoids the realities of
production questions and surrenders
whenever faced with problems of in-
dustrial lawlessness, Canberra “Labor” is
extremely cocksure about its “full-em-
ployment” policy. It aims, apparently,
to maintain “full employment” regard-
less of any other circumstances. In short,
money will be created to keep “employ-
ment” at the full, even though this “em-
ployment” may only be of a payroll
nature and quite useless from the stand-
point of productivity and lining standards.
In keeping the population “employed”
there have been vast additions to the civil
service. Excluding rural workers, domes-
tics and the defence forces, one person
out of every four employed is now a civil
servant. Over 160,000 new civil-service
jobs have been created since 1939. The
increase in the number of civil servants
in the past eight years exceeds the total
of all the trade-union unemployment that
existed in the depths of the depression.
“Labor” without any question believes
that credit-expansion represents the solu-
tion to unemployment and depression.
This is evident from the blame it has
placed upon the banking system for not
expanding credit on a greater scale
during 1930*33. It condemns the
Premiers’ Plan, which attached a good
deal of regard to the necessity for eco-
nomical production in order to meet the
difficulty of selling our exports overseas
on a competitive basis.
Further evidence of “Labor’s” sublime
faith in credit-expansion has been seen
in its method of financing war-time and
post - war Government expenditure.
Budgets for several years have been un-
duly inflated, and all have involved
credit-expansion, even though there has
been some reduction in the Treasury-bill
debt lately, described by the Common-
wealth Bank as “temporary redemption.”
“Labor” members and supporters have
been heard asking why money created to
finance war could not be just as readily
made available to finance peace-time de-
velopment. They are not nearly so ready
to investigate the question of the crea-
tion of commensurate production, or to
debate the likely effects of the 40-hour
week on output. Nor do they choose to
take notice of the gross inflation in
spending-power that has been concurrent
with “Labor’s” credit-expansion policy-
an inflation that has been kept in partial
control only by arbitrary prices regula-
tions that cannot continue unless we are
to regard ourselves as living for ever in
an emergency, debilitated economy with
a growing surplus of unspendable “sav-
ings.”
One objective of the “Labor” Govern-
ment’s present banking legislation is to
maintain “full employment” regardless of
all other conditions. Credit will be made
available to keep payrolls full in defiance
of any laws of supply and demand.
Efficiency and output per man-hour
mean little to Caucus. The heroes of the
party are those who were on the dole
during the depression; but none have
any alternative plan to offer except the
creation of more and more money to
swamp unemployment.
In this process production and the
value of money must be swamped, too.
We have already seen, during a period of
credit-expansion, prices rise, the value of
money fall and production decline in
many of our essential industries. We
have, in fact, a production depression.
But the unmistakable warning means
nothing to “Labor.” Give it enough con-
trols and monopolies, it believes, and it
can live on the nationalised bank credit
—even if it has to keep pushing everyone
round in order to make things “work”
even temporarily.
The Kind of Planning Wanted
This country has seen some amazing
—almost incredible—things happen in
“Government” over the past half-dozen
years. Ministerial whims have resulted in
great departmental activity for a period
in different spheres ; but rarely have these
whims had much to do with the progress
or betterment of the community.
Dr. Evatt created a big staff of young
and oldish “diplomats” for External
Affairs, Young and oldish, they have
been resigning from the service at a pre-
cipitate rate lately, and most of them
would say that they have spent their years
with the Minister in vain. Our diplo-
matic services are important, but the job
has to be tackled in the right way.
Dr. Evatt has a full share of
of their kind—and still this happens.
“I’m against the Guvverment interferin' with them private banks. Spike!"
Then what chance has, say, the Depart-
ment of the Interior, in charge of an
egregious blunderer like Mr. H. V. John-
son, or External Territories, looked after
by that nark and professional rabble-
rouser Eddie Ward? As for Immigra-
tion—well, the position speaks for itself,
with gestures.
Yet Ministerial obligations have never
been greater in the history of Australia.
This increased responsibility arises from
the fact that the country has not before
been so “controlled” by a central Gov-
ernment — never have persons or indi-
vidual enterprises been subject to such
tight restrictions. In pre-war days
industry tackled whatever tasks it felt
capable of doing, sometimes with loss to
itself, but almost invariably with results
beneficial to the community. Industrial
initiative was the mainspring of economic
development and of productive employ-
ment.
Now this mainspring is made largely
inoperative by Government edict. But
Ministerial “responsibility” is not suffi-
cient to serve in its place. There are too
many political parasites and time-servers
in the Labor Ministry, all of them keenly
interested in grand political schemes like
the nationalisation of banking, but prac-
tically none of them doing a tap to-
wards the development and expansion of
Australian industry. What can happen
to one of Australia’s oldest industries —
wheatgrowing when “controlled” by
Canberra can be seen in the present panic
arising from a record wheat crop that
needs to be harvested, transported and
marketed. True, the Government is prob-
ably unused to high production. Its
economic policy is all against it. It is
interested more in payroll “employment”
than in production.
From Manus Island in the north to
South East Cape in Tasmania, Australia
and Australian territOrities are crying
aloud for development. While 160,000
largely useless civil servants have been
added to the Government payroll since
1939, there has actually been a reduction
in the number of men working in mines
and quarries. Coal remains in wholly
inadequate supply. Production of
rubber, copra, gold and other things
in New Guinea has never properly re-
covered since the war, nor is it likely to
so long as the frustrating labor and trans-
port restrictions imposed by Minister
Ward continue in force. Producers in
New Guinea are left out on a limb, their
fate in the hands of the member for East
Sydney.
It has remained for British private
enterprise to make plans for the develop-
ment of Queensland’s huge sub-bitu-
minous coal resources. There are a
hundred other essential materials that
Australia could be producing in greater
quantities for use internally and for sale
abroad ; but are there any central-Gov-
ernment plans for such increased produc-
tion? Any attempt, for instance, to
further the northern N. S. Wales hydro-
electric scheme put forward by Earle
Page, and which would undoubtedly add
greatly to the butter-producing potential
of that area, among its many other pro-
duction- and population-increasing vir-
tues? Of course not; the “Labor”
Ministry at Canberra is far too doc-
trinaire, far too preoccupied with putting
all kinds of powers in its own hands
without carrying out the responsibilities
attached thereto. In any case, the city
vote interests it a great deal more than
land production.
The Commonwealth Government civil
Budget this year is £215 million. Before
the war it was under £lOO million. And
at the present time the £l6B million “de-
fence” vote includes much outgo more
properly chargeable to civil departments.
If only £2 million a year were set aside
to provide for intensive geological surveys
(in co-operation with State Governments),
for water-conservation investigation, for
industrial planning in association with
private enterprise, in adding to the re-
search resources of the C.5.1.R., in foster-
ing overseas markets and in subsidising
small new industries with large future
prospects a great deal more good would
be served than is now the case with the
expenditure of tens and tens of millions
of taxpayers’ money and the obvious
overstaffing of the civil service.
It is the correct task of Government to
assist private enterprise develop the re-
sources of the country to the widest pos-
sible extent and promote the highest rate
of productive employment. In this way
a greater nation can be built, its people
housed better, its living standards in-
creased, its defence potential expanded.
But this job obviously implies co-
operation between Government and
private enterprise. Its performance de-
mands the reversal of that policy so evi-
dent in the behavior of “Labor” Gov-
ernments for so many years—a policy of
dividing the people and promoting class-
distrust. It requires that Government as
well as industry must get down to busi-
ness and study all the problems attend-
ing production, and that the Canberra
“Labor” attitude of solving problems by
nationalising banking (or something else)
or deficit-financing a payroll form of
“full employment” must be jettisoned.
The Marxist philosophy of “from each
according to his ability, to each accord-
ing to his need,” should be at least modi-
fied to the point where ability is not
drained of all its lifeblood, and incentive
and thrift not starved to death.
The burden of the bureaucracy and its
drain on manpower resources needs to
be reduced. We must put greater em-
phasis on bigger, more efficient produc-
tion.
On the basis of Government co-opera-
tion with private enterprise we need
national plans for finance, production,
development, migration and defence. The
Department of Commerce, and Agricul-
ture has great responsibilities, not satisfied
by rendering the usual bureaucratic
“services” of the times. External Terri-
tories, the Department of the Interior,
Transport, Air and Aviation, Works and
Housing, Labor and National Service,
Supply and Shipping—all these Canberra
establishments and their State opposite
numbers should be rendering big practical
service to the industrial side of the nation
at the present time, helping to co-ordinate
the financial, raw-material and transport
resources of the country with the assist-
ance of the Commonwealth Bank, the
trading banks and representatives of
trade and industry.
In essence, the Ministerial attitude
needs to be benevolently paternal in the
case of legitimately-run industry, whilst
Government competition is justifiable
where there is evidence of abuses by
private enterprise. We must break away
from our condition of chronic production
scarcity, and, by competition within all
types and sections of industry, ensure that
arbitrary maximum prices do not be-
come the minimum, and that there shall
be rewards for enterprise and diligence,
as well as encouragement for thrift. It
is out of thrift that we get the only real
resources for capital expenditure.
Once a Government has shown that it
is capable of contracting Budget expendi-
ture and establishing reserves in boom
times it can be given authority to ex-
pand credit, directed in a manner that
reliable economic surveys indicate, in
periods of slackness. This is the only
Budgetary way any sound form of maxi-
mum employment can be implemented.
Tariff reductions covered by the agree-
ment between Britain, the United States
and 21 other countries will not be re-
vealed in detail until later this month.
Australia’s participation in the plan has
yet to be ratified by Parliament. It has
been said that Imperial preference is not
greatly affected by the agreement, and
that the United States is offering a moder-
ate cut in its wool tariff. Success of any
world tariff readjustment must depend
greatly upon concessions by the United
States, the largest exporter of all
nations.
* * * *
During the year to June 30, 1947,
77 p.c. of the lead produced by B.H.
Associated Smelters was exported, and
of this 80 p.c. was taken by the United
Kingdom. The 23 p.c. used in Australia
was marketed at £22 a ton (pegged in
1940); at present £9O to £lOO is received
for export lead. Because of the high
overseas price North Broken Hill, Ltd.,
has declared 100 p.c. on its ss. shares
for the last half-year, and Broken Hill
South 90 p.c.
» * * *
Queensland Government has decided
to engage Powell Duffryn Technical
Services, Ltd., of London, to make a
complete survey of coal resources. R.
W. Foot,’of the co., has already made a
wide but superficial inspection of the
State’s coalfields, and Premier Hanlon
talks of 2000 million tons of coal re-
serves. A more exhaustive survey is ex-
pected to be finished by the end of 1948,
by which time the qualities and possi-
bilities of each type of coal are also
hoped to be known. At least'two senior
mining engineers, one junior engineer and
a Powell-Duffryn senior chemist will
work in conjunction with Mines Minister
Foley and his department in making the
survey, which will cost about £3OOO a
month to carry out.
* * * *
J. J. Dedman, Minister for Self-Denial
and Reconstruction, in supporting the
Bank Bill last week spoke of the rise in
industrial-share prices that had occurred
some time after announcement of the
legislation. One of the biggest factors
influencing the high level of share prices
in the Commonwealth today is inflation,
just the same as house-property values are
high because of rising costs and depre-
ciating money. It would cost twice as
much to equip a textile plant today as it
would in 1938. The sharemarket is justi-
fied in expecting even greater inflation if
the Dedman-sponsored One Big Bank
comes into being.
Prime Minister Chifley told the Reps,
last week that cash receipts by the Dis-
posals Commission to August 31 totalled
£88,077,000. Credits arising from dis-
posals were used in reducing “defence
and post-war charges” in the public
accounts, Mr. Chifley said. It is prob-
able that total sales exceed the figure
given by Mr. Chifley. An outline of the
commission’s activities was published in
B. 22/10/’47.
* # * *
Output of Portland cement in Aus-
tralia during July was 89,200 tons, a
record, and considerably above the
monthly average in any year before the
war. Yet the demand is greatly in excess
of output. Cement is at present being
supplied on priority only, with new hous-
ing No. 1 on the fist. Government and
semi-Government construction projects
may have to give way to housing de-
mands in order to help the home-building
programme along. The increased pro-
duction of cement in N. S. Wales has
been helped by peace in the colliery at
Kandos.


VO*
4
s
J: O
i <3 v
1
>4
Vi*'
i?
The strenuous schedule main-
tained during the recent
Empire tour of a Vickers
Viking included a number of
outstanding individual flights. Many were over open
water and off the usual air-line routes —an indication
of the confidence inspired by the Viking’s standard of
performance. The total distance flown was 40,000 miles,
including 11,000 miles of demonstration flights.
Although a full complement of spares was carried, the
flight was trouble-free.
iited
AIRCRAFT SECTION
VICKERS HOUSE, BROADWAY, LONDON, S.W.i
Bombay to Cairo
287 0 miles, in 14 hr*. 55 mins, (one day)
Rangoon to Vizagapatam
880 miles, across the Bay of Bengal.
Broome to Singapore
1910 miles, in one day,
Sydney to Auckland
1350 miles, across the Tasman Sea.
SHIPBUILDERS * ENGINEERS * AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS
sbv*v ,
hutchinsons
BOOK CLUB
fd
BulM i)Orwi own. Home. L'JUofiy
Become a member of Hutchinson’s Universal Book Club, and
promptly at the beginning of each month, the selected book
will be posted to you. A six-months subscription is £l/1/—,
and 12 months subscription is £2/2/-. Both Post Free!
or, you may join on a pay-as-you-read basis, by paying 3/6,
plus 3d postage, monthly,’ upon receipt of each book. The
books are by such famous authors as Naomi Jacob, Rafael
Sabatini, Philip Gibbs, Peter de Polnay, Philip Lindsay, Denis
Wheatley, and many others. Each book is a current best
seller of standard size and quality, and would normally cost
much more.
It’s the economical way to build your own home library with
books by famous authors. Send Enrolment form now—or you
may, if you wish, enrol through a bookseller.
ANOTHER ADVANTAGE
Apart from receiving the selected book each month, members
may obtain any of the previous selections, still in print, by
forwarding 3/6 plus 3d postage, for each book. A list of
previous selections is forwarded to all members.
HUTCHINSON’S UNIVERSAL BOOKCLUB
396 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
I wish to join your club and enclose £ .... .subscription
NAME..
ADDRESS
BCS/10 : '
SPORTING NOTIONS
Queensland Paintings.
The watercolors in John Eldershaw’s
exhibition which opens in Brisbane to-
day are mainly Queensland in inspiration,
and demonstrate strikingly some of the
artist’s major characteristics —breadth
and range of vision, the ability to use a
similar range of material and, in the Best
of his work, 'to extract the most from it.
Two lagoon studies, in morning and
evening light, are from n.-w. Queens-
land, and are delightful images of gleam-
ing, shallow water, water-lilies, coolibah-
trees and light. Both are masterly repre-
sentations of the varying moods of light,
but the morning-light phase is, by a
narrow margin, the more successful.
The best work in the exhibition is con-
cerned with light: a different, clearer
light, with a touch of opalescence in it,
and, in a painting of a building on the
Mitchell River Mission, a touch of
mirrored purple from the mighty back-
drop of the sea. Here, again, it is morn-
ing light, and it has that mysterious
blend of coolness, clarity and color which
is characteristic of tropic mornings, and
from this a hint of that illimitable
quality of the sky which Gruner achieved
by other means. Half-fading, half-start-
ing out of the sky are the feathery heads
of palms —a minor but masterly touch
accenting the color which is the pivot
of the picture.
Eldershaw skies, in this exhibition, are
superior to those in most of his paint-
ings. And in a swift impression of the
Sugar Loaf Mountain, near Brisbane, he
has caught the distance in the sky
above the rearing top of the mountain.
Blue mountains in the distance and a red
road complete the impression.
An example of another phase of Elder-
shaw’s work is a fine, free, yet delicate
study of golden gums and pandamus
palms. The painting is from the Gulf,
and is a satisfying and dramatic image
of it. Some paintings of natives’ heads
are neither purely documentary nor do
they approach the excellence of the
lagoon and mission scenes; but they are
full of character and color and —if any
were needed —further proof of Elder-
shaw’s range.
The exigencies of caravaning in North
Queensland may account for the fact
that there are more fresh-looking, lively
landscapes in John Rowell’s current show
at Melbourne Athenaeum than in previous
exhibitions. In “A Canefield” the salient
features of green crop and mountain
have been stated with a simplicity which
is absent in his “gallery” type of picture
like the topographical “Mount Mograni.”
Others are the flaming red and orange
of “A- Mountain Road,” the lively sun-
light of “From the Jetty,” the lurid
tropicality of “An Island Home,” the
loose and sprightly “Mending the Flatty”
and “After the Storm,” a quick impres-
sion which has much dampness in it.
Mr. Rowell’s portraits aren’t in the same
category as his landscapes. “Mr, C. W. B.
Littlejohn, F.R.C.S., 0.8. E.,, M.C.” is the
best —the eminent sawbones is in surgical
battledress, and by the focussed look on
his face is hard on the heels of a delin-
quent appendix.
* » * *
Sydney artists who have been flayed,
scarified or mildly rebuked by “S. M.
Herald’s” art critic Paul Haefliger may
find much to delight them in an exhibi-
tion of his paintings at the Macquarie
Galleries. There are badly-drawn nudes,
anatomical absurdities and rough paint,
and, for all the artist’s determined Aus-
tralianism in such pictures as “Road to
Gundagai” and “Old Mine,” there is
evidence of a strange inability to portray
the fundamentals of Australian light and
color. Two paintings only, “Young
Girl” and “Annette,” have something of
charm and vitality under the paint.
* * * *
Some of the best drama in Sydney
has been seen in the suburbs, and now
art exhibitions are turning up in the
same places. A successful art competi-
tion was held recently at Mosman, and
the new North Shore Art Society, judging
by its first annual exhibition at Mosman
Town Hall, promises to be a healthy
child. A rich, sparkling oil, “Balmoral
Pool,” by H. A. Hanke, was outstanding.
Equally rich, and the only exhibit depict-
ing action, was Richard Ashton’s “Harbor
Southerly,” a study of yachts in full sail.
Only five portraits were shown, including
two by Mary Edwards of native sub-
jects, and “The Red Jacket,” a gay por-
trait of a lady by Hilda Townsend.
* * * *
James R. Jackson’s “A Victorian
Landscape,” an oil, 32in. by 26in., has
been' bought by the Victorian Country
Women’s Association as a wedding-
present for Princess Elizabeth.
"No Room at the Inn."
The prologue to Joan Temple’s “No
Room at the Inn” at Sydney Minerva in-
troduces the corpse of a murdered pros-
titute and five guilty-looking children
billeted with her during the war tb es-
cape the London blitz. The promise of
a sequence of interesting events leading
up to that situation is not fulfilled, how-
ever, and as the play proceeds it becomes
distressingly obvious that Miss Temple is
delivering a lecture on the indiscriminate
billeting of children during the war, and
illustrating her sermon with a virtuous
melodrama from which the only things
lacking are a villain with handlebars, a
mortgage and a helpless heroine.
Maupassant, in “Madame Tellier’s
Excursion,” had something interesting,
accurate and amusing to say about a
youngster and prostitutes, and Shaw,
pleading on behalf of English children,
suggested that there should be an annual
open season for shooting them and a
closed season on them for the rest of
each year. Miss Temple approaches no-
where near the wit, wisdom or percep-
tion of Shaw or Maupassant, and none
of her characters or situations that matter
are credible —in fact, her crusading
spinster, the only normal character in the
play, is too normal to be acceptable as
a crusading spinster.
Lyndall Barbour, as the harpy, swigs
Mother’s Ruin, drags at cigarettes and
maintains a prancing kind of swagger
until she looks for all the world like the
awful result of Fanny’s First Cigarette.
Hilda Scurr, as the spinster who gets in
everyone’s hair on behalf of the children ;
Leslie Victor, as the socially-inclined
vicar; and William Rees, as the police
inspector, give the best portrayals in a
play which is generally sordid, without
the redeeming features of credibility or
power.
* * # *
The Ballet Rambert showed much more
versatility in their second programme
than they did on the first night. Their
art is exquisite, and one of the most
exquisite of their ballerinas is Sally
Gilmour, who showed in “Facade” that
she was just as good in a comic tango
as she was when she went mad as Giselle.
In fact, she gave a fantastic burlesque
of her previous performance. She was
equally unsolemn in Anthony Tudor’s
“Jardin aux Lilas,” to Chausson’s music,
as the betrothed bride who thinks she
ought to marry her stiff fiance but doesn’t
want to and wants her former lover but
doesn’t think she ought to. This simple
theme was weaved through the music
by Frank Staff, Walter Gore, Brenda
Hamlyn and Miss Gilmour in brilliant
fashion.
At the!* Films.
There is a fascinating ingenuity in the
manner j n w hich the filmsmiths have
fi n fi ed the natural and supernatural and
a j. same time, kept them apart in
“stairway to Heaven” at Sydney Em-
foassy—originally it had the much better
dde of Matter of Life and Death”
and receiyed a Command Performance.
The pilot who bails out of a burning
Lancaster w i t hout his parachute believes
he should be a mist ake on
the t of a heavenly messenger, re-
ceives an extra i eaS e of life, during which
he falls in love when the messenger
eventually comes to collect him he
applies to the heavenly Court of Appeal
for a remission of his sentence, his ap-
j being fi ear£ i a t the same time that
£ arthl d “ ctors perform a de ii C ate brain
on him to cure his hallucina-
,£ns .. Fact .. and {antasy and techni-
co|or an<J monochrome are ingeniously
Mended into the yarn in which David
Nj R Li Raymo nd Massey,
Kim Hunt er, Marius Goring and Abra-
ham Sofaer kad an excellent cast,
, * * *
Sydney Mayfair is showing an excel-
j ent f dm version of the Hemingway short
story “xhe Short Happy Life of Francis
Macomber.” The brief span referred to
j n t fi e title consists of the few minutes
between the moment Macomber redeems
himself from a life of cowardice to the
time his wife shoots him in the back. The
se tting—a big-game hunt in Africa—is
admirably depicted; the characters—
Robert Preston as Macomber, Joan
Bennett as his wife and Gregory Peck as
Wilson the white hunter and guide—are
intelligently acted ; and the story is well
and powerfully told without any of the
usua i concessions to sentimentality,
Worth seeing,
* * * *
From London comes news that a direct
descendant of Rin Tin Tin has been
arrested for biting people. ” The dog
should be completely exonerated if evi-
dence turns up that it had witnessed
“Singapore”—a film which is now giving
human beings at Sydney’s State a great
desire to bear their fangs and sink ’em
j n a neighbor. Fred Mac Murray, who
can ac t fight comedy, wanders through
the rock-bottom drama looking be-
wildered and ashamed,
* * * *
There’s a revival of the old prison
dramas in Mark Hellinger’s “Brute
Force” at Sydney Capitol. Burt Lan-
caster, Charles Bickford, Sam Levene
and sundry other tough capable actors
conspire to break the yoke of prison
discipline administered by that able
character actor Hume Cronyn. There’s
a good deal of sweat and dirt and savage
hatred culminating in a spectacular but
unsuccessful jail break to prove the
author’s moral that “No one ever
escapes.”
* * * *
“Xhe Man Within,” at Sydney Esquire,
j s a n excellent technicolor version of
Graham Green’s novel. Richard Atten-
borough, who played the young pilot in
“School for Secrets,” has the main role,
a nd plays it like a veteran, but, as the
brandy-smuggling “gentleman,” Michael
Redgrave gives the best performance,
* * * .*
“Wild Harvest” (Sydney Prince Ed-
ward): The audience was wilder.


No. 20 of Series
Neon Sign.
• •
P
iiiil
iniii
m
iii
Hi
iS
rs'mm
mmumiHßH
EVERYONE knows that electricity will travel
along wires. It can also be forced to flow
through gases and in so doing often makes them
glow. Neon, a gas existing in minute quantities in
the atmosphere and discovered fifty years ago by
the British scientist. Sir William Ramsay, is
frequently used because of its attractive red glow.
If helium is used instead of neon a whitish light
is emitted. Other colours can be produced by
changing the composition of the gases and in parti-
cular by using mercury vapour in addition to neon
or argon. Mercury vapour gives a blue-green light
which can be changed to green by a suitable
coloured glass tube. The glass can also be coated
with chemicals which glow with different colours
when in contact with an electric discharge passing
through mercury vapour. “Neon Sign,’ which has
come to mean almost any kind of electric lamp used
for advertising, would not exist had not British
chemists discovered the gases neon, helium and
argon, and the British chemical indus-
try played its part in evolving means of
producing and storing these rare gase's
in commercial quantities.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment—Savings Certificates
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In May, 1937, South Australian owner G. W.
Badman won a Piccaninny Handicap at Moonee
Valley with his two-year-old filly French Gem,
a daughter of Beau Fils and Fission, a brood
mare that has been a wonderfully prolific
producer of winners. In his wildest dreams
then Badman could scarcely have visualised the
host of good races which were to come his
way through that filly.
As a two-year-old French Gem had only
five starts, winning twice and running second
to Lambent, the dam of Flight. At three
French Gem filled several minor placings and
won a single race the Oaks. So much
for French Gem herself winner of a few
races, including the fillies’ Blue Riband. In
the past three racing seasons Badman has won
26 races and collected 17 minor prizes with
three sons of French Gem, one making his
debut each season.
First of them was Royal Gem, by Dhoti.
During those three years Royal Gem won 17
races, including the Caulfield Cup, and was
only five times unplaced in 29 starts. When
he won the Caulfield Cup last year Royal Gem,
with 9st., beat Columnist, carrying 7.13; this
year Columnist won with 9st. Next of the
French Gems was Crown Gem, also by Dhoti.
Crown Gera won half a dozen races, but
seems unable to recapture his outstanding two-
year-old form. Then, last season, came Beau
Gem, not once unplaced as a two-year-old and
going on to beat the best three-year-olds of
three States in the Victoria Derby at Fleming-
ton last Saturday.
As he had done in winning the A.J.C. classic,
Valiant Crown went straight to the front in
the Derby, setting a smart pace. Into the
straight he was followed closely by Beau Gem
and Chanak. Weakening, Valiant Crown was
passed by the other pair, with Chanak setting
after Beau Gem. Inside the final furlong
Chanak had gained the upper hand and looked
the winner until Beau Gem, displaying that
rare ability to come again when evidently
beaten, drew level and on the post gained the
camera’s verdict. Only a head in it, and
Conductor was five lengths back in third place.
Regarding the relative merit of things present
apd past there is with horses only one stand-
ard of comparison—running times; and they’re
improving continually. Covering the Derby
12 furlongs in 2.30|, Beau Gem wiped Phar
Lap’s name from one of the few places it still
held in the record books. With Hall Mark
and Feldspar, Phar Lap had shared the race
record of 2.3 H for the Victoria Derby.
Beau Gem was not only B'adraan’s first
Derby winner but his first starter in the classic.
On the other hand, Darby Munro, who rode a
beautiful race on Beau Gem, has now, between
Melbourne and Sydney, brought home nine
Derby winners.
The mile Wakeful Stakes for three-year-old
fillies was run this year in two divisions, and
it is interesting to note that the respective
winners were by Nizami and Dhoti. Success-
fully represented in the second division by
Jalna (J. Purtell), Dhoti has for the past two
or three seasons dominated Melbourne racing,
particularly in two- and three-year-old events.
Evidence suggests that a few seasons hence
Australian-bred progeny of Nizami will be
similarly prominent in Sydney. All the Nizamis
seen here as yet were bred in New Zealand,
but F. W. Hughes now has the grey stallion
at his Kooba Stud. A considerable percentage
of Nizamis are, like their sire, grey in color;
a fact soon explained when one glances back
through Nizami’s pedigree and finds that his dam
Mumtaz Mahal was by The Tetrarch —“The
Spotted Wonder.”
In the first division of the Wakeful the books
showed they had learned their lesson. Nizam’s
Ring (E. Swinton) had won at unbelievably
good odds at her previous two outings, but
this time it was “Take 10 tp 9!” Though lump-
ing a 141 b. penalty, the grey filly again won
with ease, downing Nell Gwynne and Shading
in half a second better time than recorded by
Jalna. It certainly looks like Nizam’s Ring
for the Oaks tomorrow (Thursday).
The Hotham Handicap saw Hiraji, another
grey Nizami, enhance his previous reputation
as the most tough, versatile, consistent and
unlucky horse racing. This time he beat all
but Dark Marne, to whom he was conceding
71b. Dark Marne previously beat him in the
Doomben Cup, on that occasion being in receipt
of 121 b. TJiird in the Hotham was Stenelaus;
and Hiraji, in addition to being the most un-
favorably handicapped horse in the field, struck
bother in the running, Purtell being forced
to drop back from a pocket on the rails and
come again on the outside.
After Murray Stream had taken on the, for
him, unaccustomed job of pacemaker, the finish
of the 10-furlongs Mackinnon Stakes developed
into a grand tussle between Don Pedro (R.
Heather), Attley and Columnist, who finished in
that order with heads between them. A
promising two-year-old, Don Pedro lived right
up to promise as a three-year-old, but last
season, at four, he had 14 runs without taking
a race.
South Australian form seems, as usual, pretty
hot. In addition to Beau Gem’s success, the
Manitoba horse Money Moon (W- Briscoe)
scored another tiptop win in the Cantala over
his pet journey of a mile. It was four lengths
to Star of India, with another two lengths
to Tamerlane, and the winner clocked 1.37.
Left flat-footed at the barrier when heavily
backed at his previous start, O. R. Porter’s
St. Magnus colt Scotwyn (R. Heather) made
ample amends in the Maribyrnong Plate for
two-year-olds. He hit the front shortly after
the start to run out a very comfortable winner
from Gay Archer and Bengal, and covered the
five furlongs in an even minute. The favorite,
Bengal, ran erratically in the straight, but that
scarcely accounted for the four and a half
lengths separating him from the winner.
* * * *
Sydney punters, suffering a surfeit of 20-to-l
shots for weeks past, had a feast of success-
ful favorites at Canterbury on Saturday. Grey
Nurse (T. Mullane), at evens for the Juvenile
for fillies and untroubled to down Sheba and
Alabama Queen, started the good run for
backers. Earlier the Manitoba colt Manipu-
lator (A. Mulley) had accounted for a field
of juvenile colts and geldings. Leetona (W.
Fellows), at 7 to 2, was too good for Mixed
Stakes candidates over nine furlongs, while the
11-furlongs Mixed event went to Sir Alex
(A. Ward), at 6 to 4.
Withdrawal of Tamaroa, Silent and other
fancied candidates left Deep Sea a 7-to-4
favorite for the Flying; with F. Williams up,
he finished too stoutly for Tynedale, Yankee
Lad and others. Like Grey Nurse, Deep Sea
is a Nizami. Completing the main double,
“Just ignore the bounders, Waterhouse —they dont know their
bally place.”
Courier (R. Kerrigan) was the popular choice
for the nine-furlongs Park Handicap. After
trailing the field early he made up ground
round the turn and finished on strongly, appear-
ing to cause some interference to Air Flare,
who finished second ahead of Smooth Action.
A protest was entered, but the winning margin
of three lengths gave it little chance of being
upheld.
The first division of the Welter saw the
favorite, Pearler, just touched off by Kuvera
Hope (A. Hazelton) at 33 to 1. For the second
division Sonning (F. Walker), though not
favorite, was well backed at fives and landed
the money.
* * * *
Consistent supporters of the leading Queens-
land three-year-old Sefiona obtained a remark-
ably good price about the colt for the Q.T.C.
Derby. Apparently many were expecting a
reversal of the result of the Guineas, for
Sefiona, at 3 to 1, started equal favorite with
Proud Monash. Forge, a son of Hebrus, went
closest to downing Sefiona; Proud Monash
third.
* * * *
Frank McGrath —always as frank as his name
and one of the finest of Australian trainers —
passed on at his Sydney home, Stormy, named
after the pony that many years back set him
on the right road. When McGrath was born
in 1865 only four Melbourne Cups had been
run and Toryboy that year won the fifth.
Forty-odd years later McGrath was to lead
in his first Melbourne Cup winner. Prince
Foote. Later still he won two more Cups
with Peter Pan, but the horse for which Mc-
Grath probably had greatest regard was his
other champion, Amounis. Other good ’uns
to pass through his hands were Denis Boy and,
more recently, Beau Vite. McGrath had a
wonderful way with horses, in handling them
personally, in attending their ills, and in pre-
paring them for a run, but above all he was
a master at placing a horse —at setting them
for just the right race. Ex-serviceman Frank
junior, carrying on the family tradition, has
Russia as a worthy star in his stable.
* * * ♦
When this page went to the printer they
were all set to line up for the Melbourne Cup,
with; this year, one regular Cup feature miss-
ing, Wirths’ Circus having been delayed in
Queensland. But the Wirths’ traditional gold-
mounted whalebone whip was there for presen-
tation to the winning jockey.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Maiden (colts and geldings):
Phalanx, 1; Hippocrene, 2; Young Vergure, 3.
Two-year-old Maiden (fiHies): Revenir, 1;
Huarette, 2; Gold Glow, 3. Mixed Stakes (7f.):
Caruso, 1; Impudent, 2; The Toff, 3. Mixed
Stakes (10f.): Royal Duke, 1; Leetona, 2;
Menelik, 3. Flying; Tamaroa, 1; Yankee Lad,
2; Double Mint, 3. Rosehill Handicap: Mel-
goda, 1; Silent, 2; Buzz Off, 3. Welter:
Smooth Action, 1; Coronation Lad, 2; Cabinet,
3.
* * * *
Past his 30th birthday, old Man o’ War
has died in America, where for years past he
was the object of idolising, some 50,000 wor-
shippers going to Faraway Farm in Kentucky
every year and signing the champion’s “visitors’
book.” He was definitely a great horse —
beaten only once in a racing career that
amassed for his owner just under quarter of
a million dollars in stakes. After that Man o’
War sired winners of 3,250,000 dollars. Only
a few months back a leading U.S. sculptor,
Herbert Haseltine, completed a larger-than-life
sculpture of Man o’ War on which he had
been working for seven years. Standing 20
hands, the statue is to be cast in 30001 b. of
bronze and erected on a green marble base
at Faraway Farm, where Man o’ War was
buried in “an oak casket lined with satin of
the £oJoa he carried ia action.”
The Indian tour:
Closing stages of India v. South Australia
were crammed with bright cricket —all in the
visitors’ favor. On the third day India vaiscd
the first-innings tally to 451 —a fine recovery
from six for 197, and only 67 behind S.A.’s
518. Amarnath’s 144, the first century for
the side, included 14 boundaries. With 180
minutes to score 287 runs for a win, after
S.A. had closed at 219 for 8 wickets, the
visitors lost five for 60, but after that Mankad
(116) and Amarnath (94) handled the attack
so easily that 235 were on the board with-
out further loss when time was up.
Moving on to Victoria, the Indian opening
batsmen, like many other internationals, found
the M.C.G. strip of earth full of tricks, and
three wickets crashed for nil all to W.
Johnston off 12 balls. Then Amarnath with
Sarwate (32) piled on 107 for the fourth wicket,
and with Nayudu (58) added 153 for the
eighth. All out for 403; Amarnath’s 228 (not
out) a masterpiece of grit and fine batting.
Victorian batsmen, too, began badly, with three
out for llj Loxton (77) and N. Harvey (87)
added 152 for the fourth wicket, but the innings
ended with Victoria 130 in arrears. Eight
Indian bowlers had a turn (obviously to sort
out players for the Tests), and the reliable
Mankad (4 for 55) did best. On Monday the
visitors were all out by lunch-time for 203, then
had the satisfaction of seeing Victoria again
begin badly, 1 for 1.
Queensland dished N.&.W. at Brisbane in
the first Shield match of the season. Down 14
runs on the first innings (281 to 295), N.S.W.
rattled up 279 for seven wickets in the second
knock, and then closed, leaving Queensland
a full day to get 266, with rain in the offing
and against a strong N.S.W. attack. The runs
came with 15 min. to spare and a couple of
wickets in hand. There were reported
grumblings about “bumpers,” “incidents” and
umpires’ decisions. Squealing is becoming a
nasty commonplace in Australian sport.
* * * »
The Wallabies beat London Counties
20-8 in a fast, open game on a dry
ground—conditions which favored the
Australians. The Windon affair being in
abeyance, Shehadie substituted as break-
away. Buchan, an expert cover-defence
man, played up to his best home form,
and Walker, one of the most versatile
backs of the team, played well at inside
centre.
* * * ♦
At Victorian Schools’ Association com-
bined sports P. Kent (Mentone Grammar)
put up a rare show, winning five open
events: the 100, 220 and 440 yards, the
broad jump and the high jump. In the
high jump Kent cleared sft. 6iin., knock-
ing spots off the record, which had stood
at sft. 3 since 1941.
* * * ♦
Singles tennis championship title in the
British Commonwealth Occupation
Forces was collected by Captain John
Diggle, former Victorian schoolboy
champion and Linton Cup player for
three years, Diggle beat Cpl. Gregory
Dews, Richmond (N.S.W-X in straight
sets —6-1, 6-1, 6-4.
* * * *
Boxing like an old master, Rex Murphy
(10.4) outpointed Tommy Ward (10.3|)
at Leichhardt, and now rates as an out-
standing contender for the Australian
welter title, held by his elder brother
Geoff ( nom-de-guerre , Tommy Burns).
Trained finer than for some time, Ward
could not keep pace with Murphy early,
and though forceful fighting after round
five brought Ward nearer even, Murphy’s
great variety of punches (particularly left
and right uppercuts, which are seldom
seen nowadays) held the winning margin.
And a jolly good fight, too,
* * * »
Extra-well matched, Archie Kemp
(9.8 j) and Leo Barry CL7|) made a capi-
tal scrap of their Melbourne Stadium
encounter. Both fought hard and clean
throughout the 12 rounds, despite each
of them suffering early eye damage,
Kemp taking it on points.


d
Have You Made
a Will?
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a
will because it is regarded as a final and
irrevocable step. But a will may be altered
or changed completely any number of times
during the life of its maker.
In all cases it is advisable to engage the ser-
vices of a solicitor, and, in appointing
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Ltd. as Executor, you avail yourself
of the services of Australia’s oldest trustee
company. It has more than, 68 years’
practical experience in estate administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,559.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.}
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng,
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WARES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Reslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W, Russell French.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’’AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends N Nominal
Net Pref. » Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
£ £ £ £
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries.!
Share premiums, £99,694 .. .. 2,770,122
’4O 433,271 15,750 7 p.c. = 251,229 3,004,532
Share premiums, £99,694 . . 3,104,226
’4l 410,777 15,750 8 p.c. t= 320,003 3,179,250
May,
Share premiums, £49,847 .. .. 3,229,097
’42§ 427,864 15,750 7+p.c. = 318,273 3,322,938
Loss, sale of assets, £1869. . . . 3,321,069
’43 329,324 15,750 6f p.c. = 302,821 3,331,822
Loss, sale of assets, £295.. .. 3,331,527
’44 341,851 15,750 6J p.c. = 302,821 3,354,807
Profit, sale of assets, £3063 .. 3,357,870
’45 392,186 15,750 7 p.c. = 314,037 3,420,269
Loss, sale of assets, £7,792 .. 3,412,477
’46 402,578 15,750 7 p.c. =■ 314,037 3,485,268
From inner reserves, £823,360 .. 4,308,628
’47 475,761' 15,750 7 p.c. = 314,037 4,454,602
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (now £2,366,342).
! Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
§ 14 months.
It was left to private enterprise to step
into the breach and circumvent failure of
the Government and its “planners” at
Canberra to capitalise the country’s un-
doubted opportunities to win and develop
external markets for its manufactures.
High and rising costs eliminated the pos-
sibility of supplying Australian-made glass
to Asiatic markets, the potentialities of
which now appear to be substantial. So
A.C.l.’s enterprising and forward-looking
management decided to set up a factory
for production of glassware at Singapore.
A subsidiary—Singapore Glass Manu-
facturers —has been formed for the pur-
pose, and is now well along the road to
production, scheduled to begin early in
1948, subject to receipt of adequate
supplies of soda ash. Later plastic and
engineering works are also to be set up
at Singapore.
Subject to reasonable tariff protection,
the co. also proposes to commence large-
scale manufacture of crockery in Aus-
tralia—a new industry—and representa-
tives have been sent abroad to investigate
latest technical and other developments.
And a factory ft) turn out glass con-
tainers is to be erected at Hobart (Tas.)
as soon as conditions permit.
Exactly how much all this, and further
expansion of the score or more of sub-
sidiaries#which cover a wide range of
industrial activities, will call for isn’t
mentioned. “We are not able conveniently
to finance these projects out of our own
resources,” the chairman says. So
nominal capital has been lifted to
£8,000,000 by creation of 3,000,000 new
£1 shares, to be issued as and when re-
quired. Amount and terms of any new
issue must receive Treasury approval, and
a premium is now insisted upon.
Last cash issue was 996,941 £1 ords.,
two for seven, at a premium of ss. each
in Sept., 1939. A few months earlier the
nameplate had been changed from Aus-
tralian Glass to the present title, the
business split into a number of sub-
sidiaries, the scope of activities widened,
and £2,558,814 of bonus scrip handed
out (11 for four) from a surplus of
£4,331,718 (about half goodwill) on re-
valuation of assets.
Last term mounting costs were more
than offset by increased turnover. De-
mand continued to run ahead of produc-
tion, which was affected by shortage of soda
ash, industrial troubles in Victoria and
absenteeism —many glass furnaces were
idle for part of the term. On the other
hand, a new furnace at Sydney helped to
quicken and cheapen output there ; pro-
duction of flint and blown-glass was a
record ; another subsidiary, Aerex (Aust.)
Co., was formed to make industrial and
mining fans; a plastic factory, was
opened at Adelaide ; Bernard-Smith Pty.,
the structural-engineering offshoot, is
engaged on big jobs for Bitumen and Oil
Refineries and Sydney County Council,
which is putting up a new powerhouse ;
and continued progress is recorded in
Maoriland.
Combined net earnings of the group
sprang £73,183, reaching £475,761. That
was after setting aside an extra £112,283
for depreciation (£452,581), allowing
something for taxation and for an
aggregate loss of £11,072 by two sub-
sidiaries. The £475,761 covered the pref.
div. and 10.3 p.c. on the £4,486,233 of
ord. capital, compared with 8.6, 8.4, 7.2,
6.9 and 9.1 p.c. back to 1942. All that
leaves out of the reckoning £143,720
dropped from somewhere into a con-
tingencies reserve and £679,639 taken
from inner reserves accumulated since
1939 (average £97,091 p.a.) and now put
in the window. The div. was kept at
7 p.c. The £4,454,602 of reserves is sub-
ject to £2,366,342 of goodwill, etc.
The market heavily discounts its bene-
fits and prices the ords. at 665. as against
625. a month or so ago. Immediate re-
turn at 665. is 2.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for only
a shade over 3 p.c. on his money counts
on a one-for-four new issue at, say, 50 p.c.
premium, and a lift in the div. to 9 p.c.
The prefs. at 455. yield 4 p.c.
Combined balance-sheet figures of the
group compare as follows:
Consolidated Balance-sheet Figures,
1940. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital ■. . £ 4,062,601 £ 4,661,233 £ 4,661,233
Outside interests* 38,117 42,290 45,483
Sundry creditors! 509,706 1,775,874 998,001
Freehold .. .. 1;185,654 1,707,414 1,664,742
Plant, etc. .. 1,268,013 1,965,752 2,103,312
Shares, etc. .. 753,847 763,358 805,838
Stocks .. .. 1,454,793 1,944,148 2,150,755
'Debtors . . .. 500,427 892,372 822,486
Consols and cash 167,870 446,162 389,758
Intangibles . . 2,377,385 2,373,661 2,366,342
Inter-co. balance! 43,946 47,907 32,200
* Including proportion reserves, f Including tax pro-
vision, etc. I Dtie to differences in balance date.
The contraction of £777,873 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
is connected with the disclosure of inner
reserves, which is further reflected in the
growth of £852,722 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£3,170,831). Plant, share-
holding, etc., and stock increased by
£137,560, £42,475 and £206,607 respec-
tively.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
i — : ——Dividends
T Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7£p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£* ■ £> £/ £ £,
1940.. 39,230 8,438 6 p.c.= 30,000 792 202,655
1941.. 31,263 8,438 4 „ ~ 20,000 2,825 205,480
1942.. 22,550 8,438 2i „ ~ 12,500 1,612 207,092
1943. . 25,572 8,438 4 ~ „ 20,000 204,226
Written off shareholding, £2,426 .. 201,800
1944.. 30,312 8,438 4 p.c. =20,000 1,874 203,674
1945.. 18,198 8,438 4 „,, 20,000 193,434
1946.. 36,963 8,437 4 „,, 20,000 8,525 201,959
1947.. 40,202 8,488 5 „ ~ 25,000 6,764 208,723
‘ * After deducting intangibles, now £lB,OOO.
This co. turns out reinforced concrete
pipes for water supply, drainage, irriga-
tion and sewerage, together with a range
of other cement products, from factories
scattered throughout the Commonwealth
and Maoriland. It also owns most of
the £291,681 of paid capital in Hume
Pipe (Far East) and two-thirds of the
£250,000 of ord. capital in Hume Steel. •
Since war ended orders have been
received in growing volume, but plant
has been unable to work at capacity,
owing to shortages of materials and
labor. Because of this and wage lifts
and the general rise in prices operating
costs are now between 40 and 50 p.c.
above pre-war level. Still, technical im-
provements and incentive payments under
a profit-sharing scheme have lifted the
co.’s output per man-hour about 10 p.c.
above pre-war level, and the business has
been free of internal industrial trouble,
thanks partly to work of the manage-
ment-employee factory committee.
Cement and steel reinforcing wire are
chief bottlenecks, shortage of coal being
the prime cause. However, there was a
marked increase in turnover last term;
but operations in Maoriland again re-
sulted in a loss. After allowing £21,209
(up £1440) for depreciation and ear-
marking £34,000 (up £11,000) for the
Government by way of taxation, the net
result was £3239 stronger at £40,202.
That covered pref. requirements (£8438)
and 6.1 p.c. on the half-million of ord.
capital as against 5.7, 2, 4.3, 3.4, 2.8,
4.5, 6.1 and 11.3 p.c. back to 1939. A
point was added to the div., making it
5 p.c., leaving £6764 for reserves, now
£208,723 in excess of the book-value of
patents (£18,000) but subject to intangibles
in the subsidiaries.
Hume Steel, which put out 100,000
p.c. prefs. at a premium of 7s. 6d. each
a couple of years back, has plenty of
orders on band, but shortage of steel and
the metal trades dispute in Victoria have
hampered earnings. The co. paid 2\ p.c,
for the three years to end September,
1944, but nothing since. For year to end
September, 1946, it netted £32,586, of
which pref. divs. took £16,875, leaving
£15,311, or 6.1 p.c. of its ord. capital.
The Far East subsidiary at Singapore
resumed on a limited scale in October,
1945. It netted £18,745 for the year to
end March last, and has made substan-
tial progress since. Its war damage and
rehabilitation claims, covering Malaya,
Hong Kong and Manila, total £651,501,
but the board “cannot express an opinion
as to what proportion, if any, of the
amount will prove recoverable.” Pros-
pects for this offshoot are encouraging,
subject to adequate supplies of materials.
Subject to similar limitations, the out-
look for the parent is also one of ex-
pansion. Over the last two years
£103,360 has been added to the buildings
and plant, of which £78,704 was in respect
of the last term:
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £608,900 £612,500 £612,500 £612,500
Liabilities ~ 113,385 210,797 253,532 416,502
Freeholds, etc. 73,862 88,991 98,396 100,286
Buildings, plant,
etc 189,442 117,398 142,254 220,958
Stocks . . 95,773 100,321 100,187 101,484
Work in hand 40,659 15,470 13,272 24,908
Book debts .. 112,973 85,619 111,280 139,533
Advances subsid. 94,244 236,057' 224,924 283,665
Cash, etc. .. . 25,589 25,303 28,784 13,358
Shares & invests. 67,919 63,469 63,625 63,625
Shares sub. cos. 168,900 277,529 277,529 277,529
Asbestos deposit 30,792 30,960 31,503
Work in hand increased by £11,636,
book debts by £28,253 and advances to
subsidiaries by £58,741, while £162,970
was added to the outside debt. The more
or less liquid surplus (£497,695) showed
a shrinkage of £68,374.
At 255. 3d. (245. 6d. a year ago) the
ords. return 3.9 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 31s. 9d. yield 4.7 p.c.
Net tangible cover (book - value) is
£7 6s. prefs. and 28s. 4d. ords.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1937.. 23,331 4! p.c. = 23,375 110,527
1938.. 28,665 6 „ „ 27,500 1,165 111,692
1939.. 31,428 5 „ „ 27,500 3,928 115,620
1940.. 37,072*' 6„ „ 33,000 4,072 119,692
1941.. 34,605 6 „ „ 33,000 1,605 121,297
1942.. 40,664 6 „ „ 33,000 7,664 128,961
1943.. 51,715 6 „ „ 33,000 18,715 147,676
1944.. 58,310 6 „ „ 33,000 25,310 172,986
1945.. 65,279 „ „ 41,250 24,029 197,015
1946.. 71,423 7| „ „ 41,250. 30,173 227,188
1947. . 70,066 '74 „ „ 41,250 28,816 256,004
This big department store operates at
the Valley end of the city. The contrac-
tion of £1357 in last term’s profit figure
was due to the growth in operating exes,
Turnbver continued to expand, though
at a less pronounced rate than for the
previous year. Here are percentage
changes in aggregate sales of a dozen
leading department stores in Brisbane
compared with the corresponding period
of the previous year:
Average Three Months Ended
/ j,
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1938- .. + 3.7 + 1.1 + 0.7 + 3.5 -f 2.6
1939- ~ + 6.1 + 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 + 8.5
1940- . . + 5.3 + 3.0 + 5.9 + 8.8 + 5.8
1941- .. +12.3 +10.6 +22.2 1.0 +ll.O
1942- . . 0.0 + 0.7 + 1.4 +13.9 + 4.1
1943- .. 2.1 + 3.5- + 3.0 + 4.6 + 2.4
1944- .. + 7.6 +lO.O + 1.0 0.3 + 4.5
1945- .. +16.5 +27.7 +22.4 +24.8 +23.3
1946- v.. +14.6 +9.3 +9.9 +15.8 +12.4
Sales for 1946-47 were nearly 87 p.c.
above the 1938-39 level. The lift is due
largely to price increases, though mer-
chandise has come forward in better
volume during the last 18 months.
The spring in the co.’s gross earnings
last term (£339,270) was £30,231. Includ-
ing £60,000 (down £10,000) for taxation
and £8709 (down £2203) for depreciation,
exes. (£269,204) were £31,558 heavier,
due mainly to wage lifts, resumption of
deliveries and higher price of everything
used in connection with the business.
The £70,066 of profit, second-best in the
last 17 years, was 12.7 p.c. on capital as
against 12.9, 11.8, 10.6, 9.4, 7.4, 6.3, 6.7
and 5.8 p.c. back to 1939. The div. re-
mained at 7j p.c., leaving £28,816 for
reserves, making them £256,004, or nearly
double the 1942 figure.
Another feature of the year’s trading
was the swing from cash to credit sales:
1940. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft . . 117,697
Creditors . . 33,837 34,319 65,886 55,655
Tax reserve .. 15,000 76,573 90,956 83,823
Freehold and
plant . . 438,940 401,079 389,799 400,626
Stocks . . 299,380 328,051 306,091 379,844
Book debts . . 113,892 52,608 63,492 99,448
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 3,266 100,920 195,274 86,189
To carry an extra £35,956 of debtors’
balances, add £73,753 to stocks —largely
as a hedge against scarcities and rising
prices—spend £10,827 more than was
written off on fixed assets and clip
£10,231 off the amount coming to trade
creditors the board drew upon cash and
investments for £109,085. Still, the more
or less liquid surplus (£426,003) was
£17,988 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Chief threat to net earnings during the
current term is rising costs, which will
be accelerated by the 40-hour week, in-
evitable lift in the basic wage and rise
in shipping and other transport charges—
about 80 p.c. of merchandise handled by
Brisbane retailers comes from the
southern States. Still, the wide margin
between earnings and distribution gives
the p.c. div. a comfortable appearance.
At 31s. 6d. the pound shares return
4.7 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 295. 3d.


« JES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt,
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Puilding, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt,
FOR SALE, TIGER MOTH
with C. of A. just completed. British manu-
facture. In excellent condition. Inspection
Brisbane. Delivery can be made anywhere in
Eastern States. Also spare motor (British)
available. Price £550 complete with spare
motor.
Apply SOUTH-WESTERN AIRWAYS,
Union Bank Chambers, Brisbane, Queensland.
fd
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Tru»toe.
CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINfZANO C/^
n
Sweet and Dry
Some want them Sweet, and some want
them Dry, but everyone wants Cinzano as
the basis of good cocktails. Cinzano sweet
or dry, the world's best Vermouths!
GINZA
VERMOUTHS
£ince A f/6
OR»
m i •
tINJANO Si
**rmooth
yiRMOUTP*
0
Why drag around, dull, listless and sluggish?
Why tolerate that sick headachey feeling, that
miserable bilious condition? You must clear
your system of poisonous wastes before
you can feel right or be right. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, gentle in action, will
help promote the daily regularity so essen-
tial for toning up the liver and kidneys. The
ingredients are purely vegetable and act as a
general corrective of constipation. Try a dose
to-night and see how much better you feel
to-morrow. Ask for and insist on, Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
DR.MORSES
PILLS
' s S%i
TRAVEL IN GREAT BRITAIN
Recovery from war-time conditions is still proceeding
although handicapped by fuel shortages. We are
anxious to welcome visitors from Australia and if
they find train services not quite so frequent or speedy
as before the war, we are sure they will understand.
The world-famous FLYING SCOTSMAN, which never
failed to run during the war, continues its daily journey
over the historic route between LONDON and
EDINBURGH.
LONDON & NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
of England and Scotland.
Representatives in Australia:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 7 Bridge Street, SYUiVEY, and branches.
d-H Old o?
un NORWICH.
m
m
■
I
iv':*
Protect your engine against
DRY START
“Dry start” does more to prematurely age afar engine than any
other factor. That’s because, with inferior oil, metal touches
metal until the lubricating oil gets around pistons, cylinders and
bearings. It’s the quality of the oil you use that determines how
quickly it does this. Because of its high Viscosity Index—ability
to maintain efficient lubrication over a wide range of temperatures
—Atlantic Motor Oil gives maximum protection during
the vital starting period as well as at high operating temperatures.
Keep your new car NEW by lubricating
api
WITH
iITIANIIC MOTOR fill
w ( (PURE PARAFFIN BASEJ
H Glways on its Metal
M 05.47
Listen to the ATLANTIC SHOW, starring 808 DYER, every SATURDAY, 8 p.m. • 2UW * 3DB/LK • 4BC • and country stations
Exploitation and development of tin
deposits in Australia have been retarded
by Government price-control; this despite
the fact that local consumption of the
metal is running over 20 p.c. ahead of
production. On Dec. 23, 1946, the Sydney
price for clean concentrates assaying
70 p.c. or over was lifted from 665. to
765. a unit, or from £231 to £266 per ton.
On Sept. 9 last the figure was given a
welcome and overdue lift to 925. a unit,
or £322 per ton. From the same date the
Sydney smelter price for refined tin was
raised from £4lB to £515 per ton. The
London price for August was £5437
( £A546 55.) per ton, and the New York
figure 80 cents a pound (= £A554 16s. a
ton). A lift in the London and New
York price is anticipated at the begin-
ning of 1948, when the existing U.S. con-
tract with Bolivia runs out. Output of
world’s chief producing centres compare
as follows since 1940 :
June,
1940. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Bolivia , . 37,940 42,483 37,619 3,003
N. .. 44,563 327 8,747 1,017
Malaya .. 85,348 7,284 2,750
Xigeria . . 10,257 11,028 11,257 1,400
Here are world production, consumption
and stock figures over the same period :
June,
1940. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
World—
Production . 235,500 84,000 90,000 11,000
Consumption 160,000 126,000 116,000 11,600
Stocks . . 61,000 135,000 113,000 90,000
The significant feature there is the drop
of 23,000 tons in world stocks during
the first half of 1947. Much will depend
upon the speed of recovery in production
in Malaya and the N.E.I,
* * * *
The outlook for Hill 50, now
Westralia’s biggest locally - controlled
goldmine, has improved. The co. (paid
capital £69,112 in 375,000 shares of 4s.
each) is working the lenses in greenstones
and jasperites at Mt. Magnet (W.A.),
and has been since it took over the
property in 1934. After deducting gold
tax (£12,272), spending £16,279 (up
£10,119) on diamond drilling and pros-
pecting and allowing £6945 (up £386) for
depreciation, the co. netted £30,140 (up
£17,144) for the year to June 30 last.
Three 6d. divs. (total Is. 6d. a share)
called for £28,125. The improvement
was due to higher throughput, better re-
covery and lower mining and treatment
costs, to which improvements and addi-
tions to plant also contributed. The co.
treated 52,264 (up 5540) short tons ore
for 13,9250 z. fine gold. Despite lifts in
the basic wage and price of materials, ex-
traction and treatment costs were reduced
by 2s. sid., leaving them at 355. 2£d. a
long ton. Development was 4s. Id.
heavier at 7s. a ton, and administration
and depreciation lighter at 4s. Id. a
ton. Ore reserves at June 30 were esti-
mated at 110,000 tons, averaging 5.5dwt.,
an improvement of 600 tons and drop of
O. respectively. The 3183 ft. of
diamond drilling done during the year
disclosed some new lenses, but a lot of
driving and crosscutting will need to be
done before full value of these exposures
can be assessed. If enough pay-ore is
proved a new shaft is to be sunk
1000 ft. north of the present one, and the
treatment plant enlarged, thus enabling
a fresh assault to be made upon costs.
* * # #
Production at Ora Banda Amalgamated,
Grant’s Patch (W.A.), has been suspended
following a fire on October 11 that de-
stroyed the 10-head battery. However,
damage has proved less severe than
originally anticipated, and insurance is
expected to cover most of the cost of in-
stalling a new set of stamps —it is not
possible at the moment to say exactly
when they will begin to fall. Repair of
the Hornsby engine is already in hand.
For the four weeks to September 30,
1492 tons ore were treated for 4460 z. fine
gold, an average of s.9dwt. A 14ft.
winze on No. 7 level has disclosed a
patch of* 12d\yt. stuff over a width of
60 inches.
* * % *
London-domiciled Mt. Charlotte (Kal-
goorlie), Ltd,, reports that preliminary
borings have disclosed wide ore-bodies
carrying gold over a length of a quarter
of a mile. These bodies are thought to
be extensions of the lode formations tra-
versing the co.’s Hannan’s Hill and Mt.
Charlotte mines at the north end of the
Kalgoorlie belt (W.A.). Latest annual
statement shows cash £42,998. Rhodesian
mines, on which much hard cash was
spent, have been disposed of.
« « * #
“Bullionist”; Next crushing of 250 tons
from the Mountain View block, part of
the old Gt. Fingall mine (W.A.), is tipped
to yield £20,000 worth of gold. Millions
of pounds worth of gold were "taken out
of the Fingall, which was the greatest
quartz mine ever opened up in Westralia.
Some mining men think it would be
still producing had different work-
ing methods been adopted. H. C.
Hoover has been billed as a former
manager of the Fingall. Wrong—he was
boss for a short period at the Sons of
Gwalia.
« $ * ' *
U.S. gold production for the first half
of this year is estimated at 1,090,814 fine
ounces. Production for the 12 months
of 1946 was 1,625,431 ounces and for
1945 996,502 ounces. A lot of the gold
produced in U.S. comes, from mines
operated by private cos. in which big
corporations are large shareholders. Some
of these properties are surrounded by
barbed-wire fences, with signs of “Keep
out —This means you” stuck here and
there. Newspaper mining reporters are
especially disliked.


ABORIGINALITIES
“C.E,”: Andy had heard of the widow
Connors, but hadn’t met the lady till the
day he called to collect a couple of
killers. “I’m afraid they aren’t very fat,”
she apologised regretfully. “I’m no good
at fattening stock. Just Can’t judge their
feed properly.” Andy looked the wethers
over, and declared himself well satisfied.
“The trouble is, I’m not much of a
manager,” the lady continued. “I should
have sold out when the boss died, instead
of puddling along, just getting into debt.”
That night Andy was very quiet. He
stared dreamily into the fire, unaware of
Mike’s covert glances. At last, he shook
his head with a sigh. “That widder
woman,” he remarked. “Gripes, she’s .. .
she’s diff’rent, ain’t she?”- Mike grinned.
“Bet there ain’t another woman in the
world like ’er,” Andy added seriously.
“If y’re thinkin’ o’ hangin’ y’r hat up,”
Mike informed him, “it’s; only fair t’ tell
y’ her property’s mortgaged for more’n
its value already.” “I know,” Andy
chuckled good-naturedly. “She told me.'
No, it ain’t that,” he added soberly, “but,
cripes, she’s the first woman I ever met
that didn’t think she c’d run a place
better’n any man.”
* * * ♦
“Salmon Gums”: “Dunsborough”
wouldn’t be amazed at the manner in
which arum, lilies spread (B. 8/10/’47) if
he’d ever tried to eradicate the pest. They
thrive best in swampy ground, sending
tough fibrous roots well down into the
mud and defying removal in big clumps.
Consequently the bulbs must be axed, a
job accomplished by “blind” swipes below
mud level. It’s impossible to hit twice
in the same spot, which means that many
chips of bark are left in the mire. As
every piece of bark will strike and grow,
the sole results of heart-breaking toil may
be to re-sow and cultivate the pest. My
guess is that the Busselton (W.A.) area,
where “they seem to grow everywhere,”
was once the scene of a determined and
prolonged effort at eradication,
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Through the jangle of
trams, brakes, motor horns, pneumatic
drills, compressors and newsboys that
perform along my road to work, there
rings one clear sound which is not of that
world—the ring of the hammer on an
anvil. Bill Brown was the blacksmith
where I first heard that sound, and noth-
ing was more wonderful than to be sent,
on a winter’s morning, to have the old
mare shod. The ride past frosted pad-
docks, the wonderful clarity- of distant
sounds, the spurts of “steam” from your
own and the horse’s nostrils, the tingle on
the fingers and toes all worked up to the
grand finale—the sight of Bill and his
striker in grey flannel shirts, bare arms
glowing in the light of their roaring fire,
and both sweating! You hitched up the
mare and went over to the fire; perhaps
were even allowed to blow the great
bellows and reach the summit of bliss —
to be told to “ease up a bit; you’re gettin’
her too hot.” Then the showers of sparks,
the smell of coal smoke —we burnt only
ti-tree at home —and later the pungent
odor of the burning hoof as a shoe was
tried for size. Summer trips were less
interesting, though there was always the
puzzle of how the striker, obeying some
mystic signal I could never catch, would
take up a big black billy, disappear up
the street, and bring it back full of what
looked to me like soap-suds, which
was joyfully handed round between the
smiths and favored customers. The first
bitter taste of thwarted ambition came
when, on leaving school, I failed to get
a job at Bill’s, so I have never sent
showers of sparks flying on a frosty morn-
in ; but I have found out what makes that
froth.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were stocking hay
in the Vic. Mallee down near Speed and
Mat was sick of it—he had an urge for
the Murray and was at me to chuck
the hay and jump the rattler north. I
liked the Murray, too, but I wanted to
hit it a few quid to the good, so I resisted
his hints and pleas. One hot night we
“Got a puncture outfit on you ?”
were lying out on the ground, saying
nothing, when the curlews opened up. I
was dreamily listening to their wild, lonely
calling when suddenly Mat jumped up
and roared, “Shut up, y’ big-eyed, long-
legged screamers. Anyone’d think y’
hadn’t a flamin’ feather t’ fly with or a
bit o’ bark t’ chew. What are you. yellin’
about, y’ silly gawks? You ain’t got to
work on the flamin’ place or put up with
a pig-headed, money-mad mate —y’ can
clear out up t’ the river whenever y’
like! A flamin’ lot you got to scream
about!” With a sigh I arose and went
to tell the boss we were pulling out at
the end of the week.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: I’ll back storm-lashed
King Island in Bass Strait as the home
of rainbows. During showery southerly
weather —mostly it is the order of the
day there—when the sun comes out be-
tween the flying squalls of the island’s
special horizontal rain I’ve counted up to
10 different rainbows at once. On moon-
light nights there, too, you still see these
variegated sky-decorators.
*•••••
“Horseless Horseman”: For volume
the song of the familiar blue wren takes
beating. On the s.-e. coast of King Island,
Bass Strait —where at the moment the
birds abound—you hear no other bird-
music than the melodious singing of these
vivacious fliers above the roar of the surf.
For a while I wondered why the scrub-
fringed, sand-duned shore attracted the
blue-bonnets until I noticed the birds hop-
ping among the granite rocks, catching
the insects which breed in the rotting
kelp everywhere.
* * 1)! *
“Narrin”: If you have a properly irre-
verent mind you’ll find no literature on
earth to assay as many laughs to the
ream as good, solid scientific treatises. In
my time I’ve digested such solemn in-
formation as methods of raising pink
rabbits without recourse to the rum
bottle and have chuckled over pages of
detailed instructions on how to breed
aseptic maggots; but I award the plastic
autoclave to the following dissertation
on laundering bumblebees (for cross-
pollination purposes): “The bees are
trapped in large test-tubes (Williams
1931), and washed for about half a
minute by partly filling the tubes with
water and shaking, the water being
changed several times. The water is then
poured off and the tubes placed in a rack
for two or three minutes, after which the
bees are rinsed two or three times before
being placed in a wooden box to dry.”
There is no mention of starching and
ironing, and it isn’t made plain whether
bees are rinsed by the squeezing and
twisting method, or whether the wings
and legs should be folded in before pro-
ceeding.
H* * 3*
“E. 2”: It was a perfect spring day as
the Carters, Rod and Vic, brought the
Herefords down from the slopes above
Tigercat Creek. The baldies quietly
plodded the well-worn track through the
gorge and spread out wider on the flats
below. Rod, his thoughts fixed on a
change from the alfresco meals of the
past three days, started to push them.
Then it happened. The leaders baulked,
the mob dammed up and milled around,
split and tore away suddenly into the
hopscrub and wattles on both sides of
the track. The dogs found business hot
on the trail of a wallaby startled from its
feeding. The packhorse bolted, scraping
off its load in fragments against each
passing tree. The brothers galloped,
swore and yelled at each other, and
finally got the cattle headed in the right
direction in separate mobs a mile apart.
The cause of it all, a dark-brown mound
with quills erect, decided to leave its de-
fensive pose in the middle of the track
and seek fresh wonders over the small
porcupine horizon,
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Unique air passengers
were recently carried from Wanganui to
Invercargill (M.L.) —a consignment of
worms impressively named AUolabaphoia
jaysensis. They were consigned to
a Mr. Ivon Wilson, and travelled
in sections of their native turf, wrapped
in wax paper. The turf was buried at
different points in his garden, from which
the worms will spread out to do
their work on the soil. Alio. jay. was
originally peculiar to Rumania, but by
some chance the first worms of their
kind found in M.L. were unearthed near
the roots of a tree which had been im-
ported and planted at Raetihi. But the
tree was not imported from Rumania,
so the origin of the immigrants is a
mystery.
* * * * *
“Alpine Willie”: James Hackston (B.
8/10/’47) may be right about his “Moun-
tain Gully,” but those I know in the
shadows of mountain ranges rising to
something ,over 4000 ft, don’t echo the
lines:
Never here the sound of birdsong
Soothes the gully in its grief.
Here in the regions of Mt. Bogong (Vic.),
the deepest gullies are mossy-damp, sun-
less and shrouded in ferns and under-
growth, but the ringing songs of lyrebirds
and coachwhip birds are heard up and
down their lengths. And there are scores
of robins and scrub-tits and small fry
that keep these haunts a-twitter with their
chattering. In my experience, the gullies
are more favored haunts than the slopes
and ridges, and may be described as hav-
ing a rare charm and peacefulness rather
than an air of depression.
* * * *
“Crawley Spit”: Before fish became too
scarce to render the game no longer
profitable I used to keep a couple of fish-
traps (drum nets) in the Swan. And like
“Zake’s” friend (B. 8/10/’47) I used to
find deceased shags in them. Not
with their heads stuck in the wire-netting
—Swan shags have too much grey matter
for that—but right inside the body of the
traps, having found their way in through
the cone-shaped entrance. But the odd
thing, there would never be any fish in
the trap at the time. The traps were never
baited; fish found guidance in by means
of a wing fence, but there must have been
fish in at the time the shag made its raid.
Evidently, although trapped, the glutton
must have scoffed all the fish; which
seems contrary to the belief that a cor-
morant must come to the surface with
its catch in order to swallow it.
% % He *
“F.L.”: When Joe gets hold of a knife
too soft for his use he leaves it out in the
weather to become properly rusted, and
claims that the process hardens the steel
to the correct degree. A crosscut saw, he
says, shouldn’t be used on frosty morn-
ings unless the chill is first taken off;
otherwise it may shed some teeth in the
first log. When I saw one of Joe’s axes
driven into a sappy whitegum and left
for weeks I inquired the reason. He
explained that the temper was too brittle,
and he was taking some of the rashness
out of it. I’m a bit dubious on all counts.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: I can sympathise with
“S. Gums’s” commercial traveller com-
plaining of the heat in Broome (B.
1/10/ ’47). He was probably wearing too
much underclothing, had some whisky
inside him, and so was in a lather of
sweat. Alcohol in any form is the poorest
stuff with which to endure heat. It’s
liquid fuel to the body, and any observant
person partaking in Broome or even
Kalgoorlie can feel his temperature rise
after every swill. On the other hand a
man on the track is well away from the
stuff, and so gets that he sweats only with
difficulty. And it’s sweat that really makes
a man feel overcome with the heat. Also,
the man on the track way back in the
mulga or the pindan soon learns that
there is only one essential upper garment,
a shirt-flannel, for preference. But even
too much swilling with water on a dry,
hot track will put a man under. Thus
hard trampers make it a practice not to
drink more than three times a day, and
then usually only tea. On the Carnegie
Expedition of 1896, from Coolgardie to
Hall’s Creek, up the W.A.-S.A. border,
the hardest and driest stretch on the Aus-
tralian continent, Carnegie permitted him-
self and men to drink only twice a day:
at the breakfast start and again at evening
camp. They didn’t halt for dinner,
♦ * * •
“Canine”: I’d rate “Anketell’s” theory
of cobbering up with a savage dog, by
presenting him with one’s perspiration
rubbed on the palm of the hand (B.
22/10/’47), as an even quicker way of
losing fingers than fish-blasting. Old
stuff, to conscientious Aboliars, is that
fear in human beings produces a sub-
stance called adrenalin, pumped by glands
into his blood as a sort of bracer. This
adrenalin apparently works its way
quickly into the sweat glands, from which
its smell can be detected by animals. So
if “Anketell” has any doubts about a
wild-eyed hound, he’d be wise to steer
clear of confirming the dog’s suspicions
of adrenalin in the air.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Young Norton had been
collecting orphan lambs from drovers for
three years when his family decided to
move to the city. The lad sold his flock to
McNiven for a tenner and delivered them
the night before he left. Next morning
McNiven, a bachelor, awoke to find 15
sheep stamping about the hut, nuzzling
his blankets and raiding his bread box.
He arose and “shooshed” them, but they
merely dodged about and eyed him re-
proachfully. McNiven w'ent out, un-
chained his kelpies and attempted to
muster the hut. But those sheep had
hobnobbed with the town dogs and
would stand no nonsense from kelpies
trained never to bite. McNiven man-
handled them out of the hut, shut the
door, mustered the 1100 wethers in his
creek paddock and emptied them on to
the 15 pets in the hut paddock. Then he
drove the lot back into the creek paddock.
By mid-afternoon there were 15 sheep
hanging round the hut door. McNiven
lit his pipe and did some thinking. The
kelpies, obviously worried and unhappy,
sat nervously about and eyed the
unusual sheep. McNiven suddenly
sprang at the sheep, waving his arms
and yelling ferociously, the kelpies
ran excitedly about, McNiven’s old
hut cat fled to the ridge-cap, the 15
sheep regarded him in pained astonish-
ment. McNiven calmed down, got his
horse and rode into town, where he had
dealings with the butcher ; then he went
to the P.P. Board meeting and put up
such a convincing argument: about
“threat to flocks” and “bad practice of
dropping lambs” and so forth that the
Board altered the stock route and moved
the nearby T.S.R. four miles further on.
ON THE CLIFF.
“Would you really build a house here?
“Well, hardly a house—rather say
A hut, thick-walled with these cream and tawny
stones
Worn smooth by wind and spray—
The rock-scattered heights south, west and
north for my windbreak, .
Ten steps from my sun-warped door the drop
to the sea — ,
Looking out through the harbor mouth where
the great ships go, ,
With wave-sounds and good smells of seaweed
rising to me ....
And mollyhawkg tapping my window in stormy
weather,
And here my garden will be.’
“And what will you grow in your garden?”
“Sea-rosemary for a hedge—
Look, thick and green, sweet with small flowers,
already
It rims the crumbling edge—
Shells and lavender along the white sand path,
Geraniums scarlet where only the brave would
grow, . . . , . , ,
And in spring the prickly natives of this harsh
Will scatter their hoarded gold and rose-flushed
snow
Down the rocky clefts unasked, and over them
all
The salt sea airs will blow.”
“And when will all this happen?”
“When someone I do not know —
Some mad and rich old bird —will lay me a
nest-egg
So that I need never go
To work in the city again, but alone with the
sea
Pass the long blue days and the wild grey, at
peace with my fate,
On the rocks fishing, or up in my garden, still
watching
The ships, not impatiently, knowing that soon
or late ‘ ■
She will glide in on the green swell, proud
through the morning,
The one for whom I wait.”
“And what things must come to pass
Before that ship sails-home? ”
“Time must roll back and the floor of the deep
must rise
To thrust through the glittering foam
Her bows, where rich sea-anemones cling now,
and coral,
Grave-trappings that do her cold, swift beauty
wrong,
Stopping her guns’ black mouths, that must
salute
The splendid sun —and oh, alive and strong
They must walk her decks again, those men tin
sea
Tas hidden away so long.”
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.


“Zake”; For three Sunday after-
noons Big Joe, from over at Noonan’s
Ridge, five miles away, had drifted in,
looked over the paddocks, the pig-pens
and the horses, had a silent tea, hung
around for an hour and then went home.
On the fourth Sunday the city visitor re-
marked on his absence. “With all your
family married,” she said to her hostess,
“he seems a bit out of place, for he
doesn’t appear to talk to anyone much.”
“Oh, Joe was courting Millie till she took
up with the chap she married twelve
months ago,” explained Mum, “He’s
been coming out of habit every Sunday
since, but it looks now as if he’s be-
ginning to get used to the idea of Millie
being gone.”
* * * *
“Anthropo”; If “H.A.L.” (B. l/10/’47)
discounts the theory of the old land-
bridge between Australia and Asia, does
he think then that our abos came across
Torres Strait by canoe? All evidence
proves that the native Australian every-
where other than on the northern coasts
was so deficient in the art of boat-build-
ing that the idea of his traversing any
wide stretch of sea may be discounted.
He must have walked or waded across
the Torres during the last or the second-
last Ice Age. The Tasmanian likewise
walked into Australia, only during a still
earlier Ice Age. He was finally pushed
south and across to the Speck by pressure
of the later invasions—just as the abori-
ginal was pushed out of New Guinea by
the influx of better-armed Papuans.
* * * *
“Fang”: “Yair, I had a pet frawg
once,” said Roaming Harry. “One of
them grey blokes with green stripes an’
a fluty tenor voice. He was great com-
pany while I was humpin’ me drum acrost
the dry stretches west o’ Bourke. The
music he’d turn on of a night on them
hot, dusty plains was better’n y’ get on
the wireless. An’ not as expensive. I was
real mis’rable when I lorst him in the
big drought,” “Too hot an’ dry, I s’pose,”
I ventured. '‘Well, not exackly,” said
Harry. “But I had to carry me water
longer distances. O’ course, C’ruso was
right ridin’ in the billy while the water
lasted. But I got real thirsty one day
while makin’ a break for a station tank.
Must’ve bin a bit shaky on it, too. While
wringin’ out me pet f’r a quencher me
hand clenched an’ I throttled the pore
cow.”
* * *
“Seedy”: As the conversation be-
tween myself and the police sergeant
turned on the intelligence of dogs a fat
old half-bred fox-terrier waddled in
the half-opened station-door, through
which a chilly wind was blowing, and
squatted at the sergeant’s feet. “There,”
said the proud owner. “That proves what
I was just saying about how knowing
dogs are. Look at him—keeping the
draught off me! ”
* * * *
“Solitude”; The youth, propped in the
pub doorway chewing his cud, looked
Seventyfiver over critically as he
dropped off his horse. “You’re the old
cove that told our coach how y’ used t’
play football,” he challenged, as Seventy-
fiver approached. “Y’ know, football ’s
improved out o’ sight since your days.
It’s skill now, an’ practice. Did you
ever practise?” Seventyfiver looked the
cud-chewer over, and sadly shook his
head. “Course y’ didn’t,” sniffed the
other. “Anyway, it wouldn’t be worth y’r
while. I s’pose y’ only played two or
three games in the season.” “Well, no,”
protested the old bloke, “we played over
the winter an’ well into spring. Must’ve,
’cos I remember durin’ the finals one
year there was eggs in a maggie’s nest in
the branches o’ that whitegum there on
the bound’ry.” “Aw, go on, that tree
don’t branch till it’s half-way up,” scoffed
the youth, “an’ by the look of the trunk
it’s been like that for over fifty years.
How would you know there was eggs in
a nest there?” “Seen ’em, sonnie,”
Seventyfiver declared stoutly. “All of us
took a squint, though it wus Big Mac
spotted ’em first, on his way down from
takin’ a mark!”
* * * ♦
“Chuck”: It was Friday afternoon, and
at half-past five the shearing engine
chugged, spluttered and sighed itself to a
relieved silence. When the hands had
departed for bath and tea, Dad finished
sorting the wool, pressed a bale, branded
out, and took the sheep back to their
paddock. Then, after a quick change
and a cup of tea, he caught a hack and
rode into the moonlight. Next morning
he was 50 miles south, waiting for Ted
Henderson. “Come f’r me cows y’ bin
grassin’, soon’s I could, Ted,” he apolo-
gised. “Give us a hand out with ’em,
“Who fed it d doughnut?"
will y’? Want t’ put a good day in, so’s
I c’n get back t’morrer an’ drag a coupla
loads of firewood before it’s time t’ draft
an’ shed up.” “Shearing, are you, Dad?”
“Yair,” Dad sighed, “and with hands so
scarce, it keeps a bloke goin’.” All day
Dad pushed the cows, made a dry camp
at night, and next day neared home by
mid-afternoon. Leaving old Rover to
bring the herd, he jumped off, mended a
gate, propped the fence and, calling the
pup, began mustering sheep for the next
day. With them yarded, and the cattle
safely in, he fed the nag and turned
wearily towards the house, passing the
verandah where the scratch crew of
shearers sprawled, enjoying the shade
and liquid refreshment. “These flamin’
money-grabbin’ capitalists,” Dad heard as
he passed. “Too lousy t’ knock orf even
on Sundees. I tell y’ us blokes is mugs t’
shear their blasted sheep f’r ’em at any
price.”
* * *% *
“Dronestung”: So “Gipps Apis” (B.
24/9/’47) believes he caught a colony
of bees in two minds about the super-
seding of its queen, a doubtful occur-
rence even in a hive subjected to manipu-
lation or undue stimulated excitement of
the stingers. The condition “G.A.”
noted, with two queens being balled,
rather suggests a homeless swarm having
entered the box, whereupon the bees of
each faction fell on the rival queens.
* * * *
“Herbie”: When Larry and Fred realised
that economic security was more easily
come by than from fossicking they
slapped up a humpy on a reserve on the
Upper Clarence (N-S.W.) and agreed to
fifty-fifty the joys and sorrows of the rest
of their days. They listened attentively
to the monologue of the P.P. inspector,
had two looks at the khaki weed and
burr on the reserve, and signed a receipt
for a couple of hoes. The inspector, on
his periodic visits, was satisfied, as were
Larry and Fred, for he didn’t
moan about the brace of
cracker cows and the handful
of poddies passing drovers had
dropped as gifts to the battlers.
Came a day when the partners’
herd got tangled with a mob
of mixed sorts from Queens-
land and, after a bit of curs-
ing, Larry and Fred agreed
that their beasts could go
under the hammer. Then came
the parting. Larry was shy a
couple of fingers on one hand
and Fred had done the milk-
ing. He claimed that, as lead-
ing hand in their dairying acti-
vities, he was entitled to
higher pay than a mere farm
laborer, and he produced
the Dairy Award to back his
argument. That stonkered
Larry. He accepted 40 per
cent, of the ninety bob the
joint herd fetched, emptied
the milk Fred had set in his
wash dish all over him, and
headed for his old fossicking haunt,
Fred’s still chipping burr,
* * * *
“Theo D. Lite”: “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
15/10/’47) is in deeper water than the
tidal depth he quotes when he gives the
moon sole credit for tidal phenomena.
The partner that “G.” forgets is the fiery
orb. Both sun and moon attract the
ocean water and, at the equator, pull it
towards them, thereby raising its level.
At the poles the level drops. At full
moon the earth lies between the sun and
the moon; at new moon, the moon
is between the earth and the sun. Half-
way between new and full moons — i.e.,
at the “quarters”—the moon is square off
the line from the sun to the earth. The
maximum ocean tide is only a couple of
feet and keeps working round and round,
varying in height as they either pull in
different directions or together. The varia-
tion in tidal height around the coast is
more complex, but is generally due to
the huge energy of an ocean of water
travelling fairly slowly being transferred
to a relatively small amount of water
moving up the continental shelf of the
coastline at high speed. Some coastlines
are better suited for this energy transfer
than are others.
* « * *
“Bo”: The middle-aged drum-humper
with the long sad face waited outside the
kitchen door of the farmhouse while the
woman of the house rustled up a hand-
out for him. A brown-eyed, curly-headed
three-year-old stood looking at him in
dumb, shy wonder. When the child’s
mother came to the door again she was
struck by a touching scene. The swaggie
had a hand on the child’s head and was
looking into the innocent eyes with a
look of inexpressible yearning. There
was a suspicion of moisture in his faded
eyes as he murmured “Yes, she’d ha’ bin
about your age, too, little one.” As his
benefactor handed him the tucker she
said softly: “I’m very sorry. You lost
your little girl, I take it. What was her.
name?” The swaggie looked up in sur-
prise. “I ain’t lorst a little girl —never
had one; never bin spliced. It was a
kelpie bitch I lorst —picked up a bait a
few months back. She’d ha’ bin a
champeen if she’d lived! ”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Took the stores out
to Big Ted, who does three men’s work
on his mixed farm and doesn’t rest on
“ O.K ., Eva—you can quit pumpin' now an'
hand me a spanner!"
Sunday. “I think you’ll find them all
there, Ted,” I said as I placed them on
the table. He picked up a tin and
examined the label. “That’s jam,” he
muttered, “and that”—another tin —‘is
milk. Y’ know,” he confided in his slow
drawl. “I often wish I’d never learnt to
read or write. A man just sits and reads
the same old labels over and over again.”
* * * * .
“Betcha”: Anyone who plumps for
reason against instinct should consider
Mac’s horse. The animal had been
foaled, bred and broken in a southern
Victorian district and had never been off
its home range. When Mac bought it he
took the animal by road some hundred or
more miles north, A couple of years later
the\ horse found the gate open, and its
boss, guessing where it’d head, set out
in pursuit. A few inquiries, plus a spot
of tracking, soon brought to light the
fact that the escapee had left the main
highway and was making south-eastward
through dense bush country, It was then
Mac remembered an unused and little-
known short-cut leading direct to its
home district through that region. The
difficult route included a couple of river
crossings and an intricate gap through a
high range. Jumping in his car, Mac
made the trip by highway, and was on
hand to welcome the horse when it
arrived.
? * * * *
, “Blime”; Big Roger drained his glass
, and walked from the bar, followed by all
eyes. “There’s a man for y’,” murmured
Bung, admiringly. “Come here twenty
years ago without, a flamin’ razoo, an’,
game as Ned Kelly, went into the cattle
business. Took up one o’ those back
runs, an’ camped out there most o’ the
time. Jus’ shows what a man c’n do, eh?
Couldn’t afford t’ buy, ’e told me, so he
bred ’em. Bred up from the limited stock
he c’d get. Now he owns hundreds, an’
never bought a beast. Clever, ain’t it,
what he’s done?” “Clever?” Old Ned
wagged his head slowly sideways. “I tell
y’ it’s a ruddy miracle,” he informed the
mob. “The stock Roger started with was
give to him be ol’ man Cousins, f’r
cuttin’ a bit o’ wood. An’ cripes, I
oughter know. It was me that helped
him out t’ the run with it, so he c’d start
his breedin’. Yair, an’ bein’ on its own,
it give a flamin’ lot o’ trouble, too, that
slab-sided ol’ bullock.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I miss not only
the kerosene-tin but the article in
which it was encased. Made to
contain two tins, the box was cup-
board, medicine-chest, tool-box and
general hold-all in every camp. Stood on
end, edge or side it provided a comfort-
able seat for the smallest or the tallest.
I’d like a quid for every game of crib I’ve
played on the primitive card-table, or
every ferret box or canary cage I’ve made
from its softwood timber. But most
vivid of all memories on the subject is
the magic a bush Mum could work with
a handful of tacks, a few yards of
cretonne and a couple of kerosene-cases.
“Pandarra”: With the recently-praised
kero.-tin, which has been the outbacker’s
boiler, oven, meat safe, bush ’cello and
unnationalised bank, they couple the
humble goat as the chief prop and stay
of the spirits of the pioneer. The efficient
garbage-disposal expert kept him and
his family supplied with milk, butter
and beef, floormats, coats, mattresses and
bootlaces. Like the pioneer the goats are
disappearing into the sunset.
* * * *
“Hanko”; Wun Sin padded into the
hut and went straight to Snowflake. “You
getee me emlu egg, soon, sometime,” he
said, and placed a large split-cane-
enshrouded jar at the abo.’s elbow. Snow-
flake nodded, and with a bland smile
the old gardener departed. He was barely
out of the door when the abo. had the
lid off the brown jar. “What dis stuff?”
he asked, and his muddy eyes roved in-
quiringly from face to face of us. “A
favorite Chinese food,” Big Joe shot in
quickly, “ ’S’matter of fact, Snowflake,”
he said with a grimace, “it’s dogs’
kidneys pickled in soya sauce.”
The abo. sprang to his feet and
pushed the jar from him. “The
peanut-eyed cow,” he roared.
“What he think I is, a plurry
caramel?” and he dashed out of the hut.
Hastily we portioned out the contents of
the jar, the tenderest of ginger aswim in
heavy syrup. It was delicious, and we
were still licking our chops when Snow-
flake came back. “The old cow said it
was ginger chow,” he snorted. He spat
in disgust. “I wouldn’t eat ’em if they
was red kelpies or blue heelers,” he said.
* * * *
“F.T.H.”: “Kendon” (B. l/10/’47) has
made a bad guess when he refers to the
termite pile at Condon (W.A.) as being
at the terminus of the world’s longest
fence. The ant-hill may be at Condon,
but the northern end of the No. 1 rabbit-
proof fence is some 40 air miles further
up the coast at Cootenbrand Point, which
forms one side of a large bay whose
name is unprintable. Here is the true
terminus with the fence running down to
a sheer cliff and thence to a sea-wall
built of cement and shell about 50yds.
long, ending in a large rock-hole blasted
out of the coral to ensure that tl\e water
would always form a barrier at low tide
(24ft, of rise and fall at this point).
Here also is a fisherman’s paradise, for-
tunately -known only to the fence bound-
ary-rider, the station-hand of the coast
and hinterland and the prospectors of
Marble Bar and Nullagine. The ant-
hill in question would stand little chance
against any of the “willy-willies” for
which this section of coast is notorious.,
NIGHT IN THE BUSH.
Cool breathes the bush after the day
’ That bore the, bursting heat,
And softness bathes each branch and spray,
Bud, leaf and blossom sweet.
The dim, dark trees in shadowed halls
Now hide each burnt, black scar;
Here where the moonlight floods and falls
O’er plain and mountain bar.
Now comes the silent whispering
Of rock and grassy bed,
The breath of every leafy thing
Blows soft about my head;
In gully deep or mountain high
While stars like candles burn
They seem to light some presence nigh
’Mid tree and shrub and fern.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


BUYING STATION SUPPLIES IS
EASY!
A.M.L.&F. clients haven't a worry in the world!
A.M.L.&F. experts do all the work for them, make the best possible buy. take
care of the financial arrangements if necessary, and ultimately freight their require-
ments by the best possible means. The A.M.L.&F. Merchandise Department has
trade contacts that make it easy to provide supplies for the station, mechanical
equipment, vehicles, machinery, and even your personal requirements . . .
"everything from teacups to tractors!" You ask for it . . . they 11 get it.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1865.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree, Henty and Hay.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock . . .
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders . • •
* os. 6a
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour is purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. hme.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes: 4058 Melbourne —76 8K Brisbane —712 F 588 Perth.
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and A CERTAIN
KILLER
s..\C
m
* vv
</>y
r
’i Uv
Vj *Jji] v tV
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
™, „ B . u £y OTT - ass.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR
THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY: qvdnpv tlie cost of residence
Providing all fees payable to the PnivexsityofSydneyt payable a t the
at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, p
discretion of the Trustees,
OK
HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGEI: annum.
Providing all fees and text hooks not exceed g pe ayailablg under tbe
Applications are invited for the above Bursai e ,
Will of the late James Murphy of Como bose meang are insufflc ient
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic paren o must sa tisfy the
to enable their sons to study f o |Sydney, or of Entrance to
requirements for Matriculation at the University £ y ° n a e /’ be .
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College. the « completed not later than
Forms of Application (which must b ®/«"™n r ies tenable at the Hawkesbury
the sth January, 1948, in the case of ®?|||s b e^ February, 1948, in the case of
particulars may he
obtained flo ™ tRUSTBE COMPANY
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Farms and Fat Lambs.
“Pat O’Day”: Departmental instructors
in agriculture and stock, stationed in
country districts, do a good job. Their
knowledge and experience come free to
farmers and graziers whose holdings
aren’t as productive as they should be.
One man on the N.S.W. southern table-
lands, out from Gundagai, proudly
showed me his formerly rather poorly-
paying farm, now become a model 800-
acre fat-lamb property. All his life a
farmer, he needed a spur to start on a
new venture and was able, with the aid of
two departmental men, one of whom per-
sonally supervised his work, to make a
profitable change in a short time.
The advice given him was based on the
methods adopted by leading farmers,
some of them prizewinners in farm com-
petitions, and he has followed it to the
letter. Running a flock of 650 breeding
ewes on his modest acreage, growing 250
acres of wheat, 200 acres of oats, 100
acres of lucerne subdivided into five pad-
docks, he is still improving his carrying
capacity by putting in small areas of Jap-
anese millet and Sudan grass for summer
fodder to “top off” 300 Border-Leicester
cross-lambs for the Christmas market.
Two hundred of the ewe lambs he will
join to Southdown rams.
The district agronomist told him to
sow the quick-growing Jap millet through
the combine at 101 b. of seed per acre
with lewt. of super. This millet need not
be sown deeply, but the seed-bed should
be thoroughly prepared. The crop may
be fed off green and then allowed to pro-
duce growth for hay. After hay-cutting
the stubble should be harrowed to loosen
the soil and conserve the moisture, thus
obtaining a good second growth.
Sheep Dogs.
“R. Ney”: It is a fairly noticeable
characteristic of men who have once'
worked among sheep that, transplanted
to city life in their later years, all of their
reminiscences of their outback life will
be liberally sprinkled with admiring tales
of the sheep dogs they knew, owned and
loved. I know several such men, and
make bold to say that they remember the
dogs they worked with better than the
men. It can be imagined with what
pleasure people like that will read Di.
R. B. Kelley’s Sheep Dogs (Angus and
Robertson), a work that covers pretty
well the whole gamut of the breeding,
rearing, keeping and training of Border
Collies, Kelpies and Barbs.
As a book for the sheep-owner, drover,
dog-breeder and station-manager it is one
of the best put out. In chapters to which
he brings his knowledge and experience
as a veterinary scientist, animal geneticist
and breeder and trainer of sheep dogs,
Dr. Kelley leaves little ground uncovered,
and at the end there is a list of the
rules applying to sheep-dog trials at
country and city shows.
From Scotland to Australia the evolu-
tion of the sheep dog as we know him is
carefully traced, and there are frequent
little histories of outstanding dogs and
the men who made them. The chapters
on training are especially valuable, and
are so simply written that any intelligent
and persevering man, given a good pup,
could very quickly turn him into a worker
of which to be proud. Troubles and
diseases of dogs, with the cures, together
with advice on diet and breeding and
handling, make it a book that no man or
his dog —should miss reading.
Tomato Culture.
“Rooster”; In Victoria the present
annual tomato area is estimated at
7000 acres, yielding about 3,100,000
bushels of fruit. Processing firms alone
consume 2,500,000 bushels. The annual
return is £600,000.
Tomatoes can be grown commercially
on soil types from clay to light sands,
provided a balanced mineral content is
maintained. Examples of good soils in-
clude the Murray River silts, the sedimen-
tary soils of the Goulburn Valley, the
alluvial loams of Bendigo, the light loams
near Burwood, the red loams and light
sands of the Momington Peninsula, and
the mixed loams and sandy soils of Port-
land. Yield of “crinkled” tomatoes in
any of these is 500 cases per acre.
High fertility and a good humus con-
tent go together. If this cannot be main-
tained by the introduction of stable
manure, then rotation of cover crops
should be practised. The depletion of
humus in a soil through continuous crop-
ping results in decreased production.
Good drainage of both the soil and sub-
soil helps to maintain even temperatures
and moisture content under varying
climatic conditions. Underground drain-
age is the only satisfactory method of
improving badly-drained land. Where
there is free access to river-flats, the
fertility of a sandy soil can be greatly
improved by top-dressing it liberally with
the heavier loams. The latter are in-
variably rich in potash and humus.
When planting large acreages by
machine the rows should have a
northerly aspect, so that the plants
are provided with the maximum
amount of sunshine. A machine
will plant 15,000 a day as against
1000 per day by hand. It must be
remembered that the tomato is not a
hardy plant. Under even temperatures it
will thrive. Unsheltered by summer heat
or winter frost it wilts and dies. A good
temperature to maintain is 70 deg. F.
Wait for the ideal day to plant.
Should artificial watering be required
before transplanting tepid water should
be used in a fine spray every evening.
Ordinary water-cans are too coarse for
this purpose and special cans are pro-
curable. Cluster types are by far the
heaviest croppers and, unlike the “crink-
led” and “canning” types, require drastic
pruning. If left unpruned the plant will
bear thousands of berries no bigger than
marbles. They should be pruned to a
single leader and staked, the clusters of
fruit being thinned soon after the sets
have formed. It’s essential to, know your
varieties. A comprehensive list can be
obtained from the Department of Agri-
culture in every State. From my own ex-
perience I’ve found the tomato a profit-
able sideline in places as far apart as
Tallangatta (Murray Valley) and Port-
land (Western Coastal District). Annual
rainfall at Tallangatta is 20in.; at Port-
land 37in.
Conserving Soil.
“Don Drone”: Much fertile arable land
would be saved from ruination, and much
expense averted, if farmers would treat
eroding land in the early stages. Such
treatment presupposes the ability to re-
cognise the evidence of sheet erosion.
This is by no means easy, but the follow-
ing points may be taken as a fair guide
to the presence of active sheet erosion:
“Do you hear a sort of echo, too, Steve?"
Periodical examination of the soil profile
will give some indication as to whether the
depth of topsoil is decreasing. Keep
records of the depth of the surface layer,
and the rate of decrease is then readily
available. Loss of fertility or carrying
capacity is not always due to bad seasons,
and the possibility of erosion should
not be overlooked.
Examination of logs, fences, etc., will
, give valuable information, as debris, soil,
grass, etc., piled against such obstructions
is a sure sign that topsoil is being eroded
either by wind or water. The so-called
“growing of stones” is another sure sign.
Stones don’t grow, but the soil can be
washed or blown away exposing more of
them. The ultimate result of such action
is amply demonstrated on gibber plains.
The same action causes the roots of trees
and other plants to be bared. Bare
patches in a paddock should always be
suspect and closely watched. Blown
patches in fallows are an indication of
wind erosion. Discolored water usually
contains soil, which is therefore eroding
somewhere.
Mining the Pastures.
“Outback”: The Australian Meat^
Board, after referring to the decline m
sheep numbers in Australia from
119,305,000 in 1939 to 96,396,000 m
1946, says the great problem of the
mutton and lamb industry is to find ways
and means of ensuring continuity of pro-
duction by the prevention of drought
losses. Basically, the problem is one of
pastures —the determination of the carry-
ing capacities of the natural pastures and
the strict control of their use within their
capacities, their renovation where pos-
sible, and the related questions of sown
pastures or feed crops and fodder con-
servation.
The board adds that even the powerful
and hitherto apparently inexhaustible
Mitchell grass may, with overstocking,
fail to respond to the rain, weaken and
die out. From a semi-official concern like
the Meat Board criticism of a Govern-
ment land policy could not
be expected, but a lot of
the harm caused to our
natural pastures is the re-
sult .of graziers in the past
being given too small an
area, with the result that
when the season was favor-
able they had to stock to
the limit if they wished to
keep their heads above
water.
Within more recent years
even Labor Governments
have drastically changed
their views as to what con-
stitutes a living area, but
unanimity on this point is,
for obvious reasons, im-
possible. As the Meat
Board report points out,
nature and the constitution
of the Merino have pro-
vided the golden fleece for
many years. With the
spreading over the continent
of the Merino husbandry
was at a discount, the pas-
tures were “mined,” and
only the immense area de-
layed the day of reckoning.
It should be the aim of all
Governments to see that the
soil is handed on to the next
generation at least unim-
paired and improved as
much as possible. Graziers and farmers
are waking up to soil value, and if Gov-
ernment departments will regard land
lessees as trustees and treat them accord-
ingly much can be done to repair the
damage of the past. This does not mean
that all and sundry should be given all
the land they think they want, but it does
include the giving of an area sufficient to
enable land to be used rotationally.
To Beat Rushes.
“Curlew”: Damp situations always
carry vegetation suited to the conditions,
and very largely it is of a poor class
very suitable for checking soil erosion,
but not worth very much for the produc-
tion of beef, mutton, butter, wool, etc.
Recently an article in a farm paper sug-
gested that the land be ploughed, if
possible, worked up, drained either by
files or the mole plough and crops grown
until the rushes wfere eliminated. Another
scheme, where the growth was scattered,


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted. '
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
""THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a traction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Built entirely in Australia by
MORE IN ONE
♦ SPECIAL GUN*
-AND RIFLE OIL-
GUARANTEED TO REMOVE FOIL-
ING AND RUST, PREVENTS PITTING
This oil was used exclusively by the
American armed forces in the S.W.P.A.
ALL HARDWARE AND SPORTS STORES.
Wholesale, S. Hoffnnng, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents; W. S. IKIEND, Sydney.
m
m
m
m
m
m
&
Plan vour new home COMPLETELY. Don’t wait for sewerage connections.
The Hygeia Dissolvenator will provide all the conveniences of city sewerage.
The Hygeia .Dissolvenator is a completely self-contained sanitary system in which
sewage material is chemically transformed into a sterile solution that runs off
into'the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
NECESSARY. Spare yourself embarrass-
ment flies unwholesome odours and
dangers of disease. Thousands are installed
throughout Australia today. Write for
illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED
Established 20 years
Hvgeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn Street, Sytofy-
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Woolworth s Buildings, Adelaide
Co-op. Co., Ltd. 67S Little S lj e “fje
e* a.
Tasmania: Win. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
FOR THE
WORKERS
11
(T ' ;
i '
ir-^l
Hi
P>
Hi I
lift tv
ta plan a
Fixed Faint
Tea Service
Obviously the basis of your planning must be the number
of workers for whom the fixed point tea and snack bar
service is intended. The second consideration is the availa-
bility of a suitable point of service. It may be that you
have in mind a position in your existing premises but find
it too small to accommodate all the personnel at one
session. The solution, of course, is to stagger the breaks,
leaving intervals just long enough to allow for clearance
of dirty cup's and washing up. In considering this, it is
well to bear in mind whether or not parties going to the
fixed point will have to pass through other workshops, with
the possibility of distracting the workers in those shops.
This applies, too, when no site is available inside present
premises and a separate building has to be erected. Size
of the serving point will depend on whether it is intended
for tea-breaks only or for use during the luncheon interval,
and these points will also govern the type and amount of
equipment and staff.
VC, I
1/ ; I
*
r ttj
Mi w#-p^L,
m. »■-
1 h t
Hi tm
Each industry, and even each factory or workshop in
that industry, has its own individual problems. It is im-
possible to outline a general plan to cover all, but specifica-
tions will gladly be supplied on request to cover your
particular requirements. Many industrial and commercial
undertakings called in The Tea Bureau during the
war to advise on the planning of tea-services, and
the benefit of that experience is offered to you freely
and without cost. A brochure giving details of the
advisory service offered by The Tea Bureau will be
sent free on request.
"TEA AND SWftCK BAR” SERVICE SET-UP
Suitable for serving 120 persons without re-fill.
The illustration shows the service in operation at a
well known food processing factory in N.S.W., where
it caters for approximately 80 persons.
Time of service:—3 to 4 minutes, which allows
for serving tea and food.
Staff required to operate service :— 1 attendant.
Quantity of tea and food served: —80 cups of tea.
4-doz. filled bread rolls. 3-lbs. fruit’ cake.
THE TEA BUREAU
If you have any Tea problems, write or ’phone The Tea Bureau,(Service De P*J>
31 Macquarie Place, Sydney (Tel. 8W6692 ) and 47 Queen St., Melb. (Tel. C. 1100)
for two men with shovels to work
opposite each other digging the clump
out and tossing it aside, afterwards col-
lecting and burning. With a 40-hour
week and £1 per day per man it would
not take many rushes for the men to own
the farm.
Owning rush-infested land, I have
found it inexpensive to burn the rushes
when dry—usually in April before heavy
rains have set in. With some wind the
flames carry on nicely. Afterwards sow
some sub.-clover seed and rye grass. In-
deed, if sub. grows naturally in the flat
there may be enough seed to establish the
plants on the burned ground. The cost
of seed is trifling and makes a job of it
straightway. Any young growth of
rushes will be checked by cattle.
Home-Made Spray.
“Sarina”; Colloidal copper spray is
very effective against downy mildew of
tobacco and other crops, and also rids
fruit-trees of various parasites. It does
not noticeably stain maturings fruit and
is easily and cheaply made on the farm.
To make a gallon of a stock solution
that may be preserved for up to three
months in a closed non-metal vessel, first
dissolve lib. of bluestone (crystals or
fines) in a quart of water in a wooden or
earthenware vessel. It is necessary to put
the bluestone in a bag of hessian and
suspend it in the water, since it will not
dissolve well If merely thrown into the
water. When the. bluestone has dissolved
pour in a pint of molasses and mix
thoroughly. Then in another vessel dis-
solve soz. caustic soda in three pints of
water. Finally, with constant stirring,
pour the caustic-soda solution little by
little into the first solution.
The solution is now ready for dilution,
and two to three pints of it may be added
to lOgal. of water to make a wash for
seedlings. Use up to 3gal, to 40gal. of
water for large trees, but do not make
use of the stock solution for a few days
after making. Its turning a yellowish
color is a signal that it is ready for use.
If storing, mark the level the mixture
reaches on the inside of the vessel. Be-
fore using, if evaporation has occurred
during storage, pour in enough water
with vigorous stirring to bring the mix-
ture back to the original level. The solu-
tion is poisonous and should be kept
away from inexperienced persons and
stock.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”; In preparing baconers the
open-air system of movable houses and
the use of short, succulent pastures as a
portion of the ration has many advan-
tages. It is only during the three to six
weeks’ topping-off period that pigs require
intensive indoor conditions. This is the
stage when the pig has attained full
muscular development. See that feeding
in the sty is done under hygienic condi-
tions.
“C.S.”: Never give a cow a drench of
any sort while she is down with milk
fever. Because of her comatose condition,
some of the liquid is liable to reach the
lungs, and there is a grave danger of
pneumonia developing.
“Dekko”: “Tilga’s” method of eradi-
cating lantana by annual brushing and
grubbing extending over four years (B.
3/ 9 / ”47) may be effective, though it
won’t appeal to a good many Queens-
landers who clear it up in one go by a
very simple and expeditious process, en-
tailing the use of a couple of plough-
chains and a horse. Link the end of
one chain to the other, take a couple of
turns with the middle part of the chain
round the lantana stem close to the
ground, hook on to the swingle-bar and
the horse will drag out the whole plant,
as it is only a surface rooter. When dry
a fire will finish the job.
“Mr.”: For brown rot in peaches, nec-
tarines, plums and cherries, use a dry-
mix sulphur-lime spray (161 b. sulphur,
81b. slaked lime and lib. calcium case-
inate spreader). Apply at monthly inter-
vals or when warm and humid weather
favors development of the rot. Don’t
spray nearer than six weeks before har-
vest or there may be a noticeable residue
on the fruit.
“Gip”: If the auto, radiator over-
heats when not carrying a load, try put-
ting a handful of washing soda into it.
Then drive around and let it boil for
about a quarter of an hour, drain the
water out and refill with clean water.
This should be repeated twice. I did
it and the radiator has not boiled since.
“W. Court”: Speedy bagging of har-
vested spuds, storage in mothproof sheds,
etc., will protect sound spuds from potato
moth. Plants in the field are often
attacked by the moth grubs, but the
tubers rarely suffer injury before digging
unless the sets were already infested with
moth grubs. Rooting around growing
spuds to find how the tubers are forming
is a fool’s game. It not only causes loss
of potatoes by injury to the roots, but
also exposes the tubers to moth attack.
“Sarina”: Running the harrows over
black-soil flats, hillsides and clay-pans
helps grass growth in inland districts.
Where the surface soil is disturbed, more
water is absorbed during rainy spells,
making half an inch of rain as beneficial
as an inch would be in hard, resistant
soils. Breaking the surface also allows
the scattering of some grass seed on bare
spots —some hardy subject like Rhodes
or Mitchell.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout^Australia
JACKSOIN 3
O'SUIXJVAA
wiaST <
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS ANC
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“.TACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SECURITV%
f
Making provision for the
family’s future welfare is a
big responsibility. It can be
so easilyand definitely fulfilled
by taking out a suitable life
assurance policy with the
Equitable Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice on all insurance
matters on request.
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
6- GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
//eaSoffice:37/'37ioueenft, Brisbane
WINCEUO HOUSE, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE. COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country. •
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
V
f£k
«S!O«3R
k
m
'■
••■ m
■m
I
■
Still the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR
C&&BREKS TROUSERS & SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
“I tell you it’s the bend that makes the
fork,” said Mr. Stoke, at last getting in a
word and trying to take the fork from
Mr. Fox.
“Do you know that our experts spend
thousands of pounds investigating such
questions as efficient work-angles?” said
Mr. Fox querulously. “We’ll have to take
this back,” he said, grasping the fork like
a gun at the trail.
“Look here, old man, I want it just as
it is,” Mr. Stoke protested.
“But the good name of our company,
you see,” said Mr. Fox.
“Yes ? Mr. Stopes, Super-Metals never
let you down,” Mr. Rawnsley assured
him.
“But I say, old chap, this is no joke.”
“Look here, Mr. Stopes,” said Mr.
Rawnsley in a confidential tone, “Just
you listen to our radio session every
Tuesday. You’ll like our Spicy Sue in
Hot Tune Parade. She’s just the girl to
make your mind easy—yes, sir, easy. Put
you in the mood to listen to the little
pep talk by our selling specialist. Then
you’ll just know that you can take our
word for it every time!”
“Well, we have several more contacts
j to make,” Mr. Fox said briskly before
j Mr. Stoke could speak,
j “Yes, and I have quite a lot of terrF
tory to cover yet,” said Mr. Rawnsley.
“Good-bye, Mr. Stopes, good- bye.”
Limply Mr. Stoke watched them get
into the car. As it sped out of sight
he realised that he had let them get away
with his fork.
NEXT day Mr. Stoke went to town
in an angry mood. He made straight
for Mr. Hooser. He wanted to have it
out with that man. But first he had to
deal with the mock peasant girl who
stopped him in the outer office. That
complicated things. Mr. Stoke’s anger
was choked back by the necessity to
speak somewhat civilly, if distantly, with
the young woman. He blinked at her
absentmindedly.
“It’s warm today,” he said, impatiently
waiting for Mr. Hooser’s entrance signal
to change from red to green..
“For the time of the year,” she said.
“Oh! Now Mr. Hooser will see you,
please.”
Entering the room Mr. Stoke declared,
“Well, I have a complaint this time.”
“Oh?” said Mr. Hooser, as if to say he
was rather late with his complaining.
“Yes,” said Mr. Stoke with a masterful
air. “Where’s my fork?”
“Oh, that,” said Mr. Hooser, “I’m
afraid the matter is out of my hands, but
we shall see what the position is,” he
said coldly.
He went to the outer office and in a
minute or two was back with a record-
card marked Complaint P 249008. Tossing
it on to the desk he informed Mr. Stoke
that the damaged implement had been
sent to the melting-down works. He
couldn’t quite keep a note of triumph out
of his voice,
“I shall see the Manager about this,”
said Mr. Stoke.
“Oh, certainly.” Mr. Hooser spoke into
one of his desk telephones. “Yes, if you
can spare him a moment Complaint
P 249008 coming up.”
Mr. Stoke stopped in the doorway.
“Damn it!” he shouted, to the joy of the
outer office. “I won’t be referred to like
a numbered criminal, do you hear?”
BUT with the General Manager it was
different. When Mr. Stoke had ex-
plained his visit the Manager smiled
frankly but wearily.
“Yes, it is damnable,” he agreed. “Let’s
just chat it over and get it straight, shall
we?”
Mr. Stoke was forced to smile wryly.
He spoke of his trouble with the firm
almost resignedly.
The Manager sat hunched in his chair.
“You see, we have to keep the organisa-
tion functioning. You don’t know what
a job it is! You’d never believe what
I’m up against! The questions you raise
would wreck the whole organisation! ”
He left his desk and paced the floor to
the window, where he stood looking out
over the city to the open waters of the
Gulf. “You don’t know how lucky you
are,” fie said cryptically before the buzzer
recalled him to his desk.
“Anyway your case will go direct to
our Australasian principals,” he said
hurriedly. “Excuse me.” He smiled
apologetically.
“Hallo! hallo!” he called softly into
the telephone, with his kindly eyes still
on Mr. Stoke.
As before, Mr. Stoke tried to say
something, but saw that it was useless.
For a moment the two men looked at one
another across the expanse of the desk,
the one smiling his tired and apologetic
smile as he spoke into the phone, the
other moved to a resigned grimace of
fellow-feeling before he slowly walked
out.
Thinking the maddening business over
at home Mr. Stoke told his wife that he
would see his lawyer about compensa-
tion. But before he could make up his
mind a packet arrived by airmail. The
enclosed note, from Earthshifter
Machinery Amalgamated (Australasia)
Ltd., read:
We note with pleasure your interest in
Earthshifter Mechanical Equipment. Here-
with latest catalogue. Re your request tor
information about advanced improved
machinery we have much pleasure in re-
ferring you to our Continental Headquarters,
Consolidated European Metallurgical In-
dustries, Ltd., who will make immediate
contact with you per airmail. We are,
dear sir, etc.
“Well!” said Mr. Stoke, gazing dully
at the illustrated catalogue of bull- and
angle-dozers, scoops, drags, grabs and
caterpillar tractors.
AFTER that Mr. Stoke said to blazes
with the lot —he would get old
Nickson, the blacksmith at the Junction,
to make him two garden forks to his
pattern. It would be well worth it. So
he took a drawing with him and ex-
plained carefully to the blacksmith what
he wanted. Old Nickson said, All right.
I’ll make you two real good forks. Give
me until end of next week.”
When Mr. Stoke returned in due time
old Nickson, trotting to the back of the
shop to rummage for the finished job,
said accusingly, “There was a bit of a
kink in that there drawing of yours.
But I made the forks all right. You see,
I made ’em just like them nice Earth-
shifter forks that everyone is using nowa-
days/' .


J%> ?t(X?ZZdj 4-0-
db dtdsO-'ic*
Prices: 30/-, 37/6, and 44/9
Obtainable from Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD-
-255 A George Street, Sydney
1/127
\
GEM
SPECIAL!
T^r
cEM
o£!ll
m
THIS
GEM SET
GEM RAZOR - 2 GEM BLADES
IN BAKELITE CASE— NOW FOR
FROM most Stores, Chemists
and Tobacconists.
GEM
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
“KEENER THAN EVER”
NOW 5 FOR 1/9
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Fashion designers laugh at the idea that
hems have anything to do with stocks and
shares.”— Woman’s magazine.
Yet they have dropped a few points
just lately.
“Found. shaggy black medium-sized young
male dog .“—Sydney suburban paper.
He’ll probably have a good story to
tell.
“The new fashions are like dreams come
true.” — “New Idea.”
Real nightmares, in fact.
“In the old days, when police wanted to
mark a man so they’d be able to identify him
next time, they lopped off one of his ears.”
To crop the other wasn’t done,
Because they couldn’t fail
To realise they needed one
To lug him off to jail.
BERT.
Nemesis.
“When women first started setting endurance
records at the ’phone, ‘Ahoy’ instead of
‘Hullo’ was the standard greeting.”
—The Bell Story.
He picked up his gear, kicked a hole
through the wall of his cabin and waded
ashore. Long John Silverfish was home!
Straigb' vay the townsfolk made them-
selves scarce. A dog sniffing its way
around a corner and meeting Silverfish
point-blank dug three feet through the
concrete before the pirate had passed. The
Law, as was its custom with Silverfish in
port, had locked itself in the cells, keys
inside.
Long John paused. Ahead of him,
gleaming red, was the first public tele-
phone he had seen. If she had seen
Long John approaching, the woman in
the box would be certainly well hidden
by now. Oblivious, she yapped on, hung
up and dialled another number.
“Ahoy!” she started.
“Why, flood my magazine,” murmured
Long John, “she talks my language! I’ll
wait for the wench and thank her for the
greeting. Someone has spoken to me—-
Long John! I’ll scuttle Old Tinsides and
join the clergy.” .
The pirate from the Spanish Mam
waited outside the box. He waited for
hours; waited till his mainpins failed.
Finally his scuppers gave and he went
down, weakly clutching at the gun’l of the
gutter.
As the corsair lay there, a lifeless mass,
the Law stealthily approached and
batoned him into the place where all the
bad buccaneers go.
Long John Silverfish thus became the
first recorded victim of that latest triumph
of civilisation —a woman in a phone-box.
PLOP.
“Go into reverse, Henry — they'll HAVE to stop then!"
“Sound waves killed a white mouse.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.'
They might be effective with Red rats,
too.
•F 4*.
“Give me a cure for a lazy wife.”
—Sydney “D.T.
Just give her a job now and then.
Single Blessedness.
“The Post Office Workers’ Union is demand-
ing £1 4s. a week for wooing costs in its
latest claim on the British Government.”
“Ah! Geordie, lad, you’ve courted me
When snowdrops pierced the carpet white,
And in the spring-time when at night
We two were walking o’er the lea;
And now in summer by the sea
You woo me still; but is it right
To dally so our troth to plight?
Are we not ’groom and bride to be ?”
“Dear Joan, let’s be resigned to fate
And thankful for our present state;
No wedded happiness I seek
While paid to woo you by the week;
The scheme has so much to commend it
I simply don’t propose to end it!’’
D. H. E.
A Hive of Industry.
“The chief executive officer of the Potato
Marketing Board in Sydney has suggested to
the Tasmaniap State Fruit Board that the name
of the Stunner apple, ‘a harsh and unromantic
sound,’ should be changed ‘to the more glamor-
ous Golden Blonde.’ The chairman of the
Fruit Board has decided to defer action, ex-
pressing the fear that if Sturmers became Golden
Blondes ‘only the male population will buy
them.’ ”
The chairman of the Pumpkin and
Cucumber Board looked up with a frown
as the Personal Clerk to the Assistant-
Under-Clerk to the Chief Clerk staggered
in with a file of papers.
“What is it now?” he asked testily.
“You can see I’m busy.”
“It’s about those four truckloads of
pumpkins from that grower at Willies
Flat,” the P.C. began. “You’ll recall
they’ve been held up at Gumbough Sid-
ing while the board decides whether to
send them to Sydney or divert them to
Newcastle. The sixth letter from the
Railway Department demanding demur-
rage has just come in. I’ve put it on the
top of the file, sir.”
“Look, I’ve no time now to deal witti
that. It will have to take its turn with
the other matters. They can’t expect us
to upset the routine of the board and be
rushed into making rash decisions be-
cause of another department’s impor-
tunities. Mark the file ‘resubmit m
two weeks.’ ” .
As the P.C. staggered away again witfi
the file the chairman turned to his steno-
grapher, tilted his chair back, put the
tips of his fingers together and said
dreamily “Now what were we on when
we were interrupted?”
“You told me to take a letter to the
Egg Plant Marketing Board, sir.”
“Oh, yes. Now let me see. ‘To the
chairman. Dear Sir, um —I have noticed
in your latest campaign to popularise the
fruit and /or vegetable your board handles
that you are making lavish use of color
photography stressing the bright purple
of this fruit and/or vegetable.
“ ‘ln my view this will do immeasur-
able harm to your sales. Apart
from the fact that the very shape of the
fruit and/or vegetable suggests embon-
point, and will therefore be looked at
askance by prospective buyers who view
a possible expansion of their waistline
with trepidation, the color mast inevi-
tably be associated in the minds of those
with any imagination with dangerously
high blood pressure, which must immedi-
ately start a train of uneasy thought in
the consumer’s mind.
“ ‘I would therefore suggest that you
alter the color in your advertisement to
plain black-and-white; or that, if you
must have color, you demand from
the Minister a grant of £50,000 for
hybridising experiments with a view to
evolving an egg plant which would be
streamlined and of, say, a delicate pastel
shade which must have a strong appeal
to the ladies, who, I understand, do a
certain proportion of the family shop-
ping. I am, etc.’
“Oh, and before you go. Miss Yorner,
I have one more important letter which
must go today without fail. Just take it,
will you?
“To the chairman, Cocky’s Joy Board.
‘Dear Sir, has it ever struck you that
the poetical approach may effect a vast
—nay, a vital —difference in your board’s
trading? I see no reason why, should
you adopt the suggestion I make here-
under, your board should not have so
unprecedented a trading success as to keep
your annual loss to under £250,000.
“‘Here, then, is what I suggest. In-
stead of putting your product up in
screw-top glass-jars and/or tins, why not
use gaily-striped paper bags which would
bear a dignified poem, sample of which
I hereby submit:
Cocky's joy is a delightful and ideal
comestible
Which makes you ask for a lot more.
It’s not thin enough to make you dribble
And it’s too thick to suck up through a
straw.
“ T venture to say that not only would
Cocky’s joy in paper bags eliminate the
naturally heavy losses in breakages and
dents in jars and/or tins, but the novel
idea of the poem printed on the bag would
appeal to the aesthetic sense of consumers
and eventually lead to a sharp cultural
uplift in the community. I am, yours,
etc.’ ”
About a fortnight later the chairman
of the Pumpkin and Cucumber Board
was sitting at his desk making a rough
draft of some suggestions he proposed
making to the Canary Seed Board, the
Gherkin Board and the Tomato Sauce
Board for the improved marketing of
their products when the Chief Clerk came
in and put a letter in front of his chief
with a “What do you think of that?”
It was from the chairman of the Blood
Orange Board, with a suggestion that the
Pumpkin and Cucumber Board could
make the public more pumpkin-conscious
by launching a tremendous press, radio
and film campaign to get men to wear
pumpkin flowers in their buttonholes.
As the chairman finished reading he
flung the letter down angrily.
“The damned hide of these people,” he
exploded. “As if we don’t know how to
run our own board! Leave it with me —
I’ll write them a snorter that will —well,
well, what is it now?” he broke off
angrily as the Personal Clerk to the, etc.,
with the help of a hefty junior clerk,
staggered in with a huge file.
“This is the file about the Willie’s Flat
pumpkin consignment, sir,” the minion
said. “You remember you ordered it
resubmitted. I was wondering if you
wish to have it filed permanently now,
sir. We’ve just been advised the four
truckloads of pumpkins had to be dumped
at Gumbough Siding—they’d all gone
rotten!”
BO


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4 id. per linej all'others 2£d. per line.
Progress
In the depths of the depression a school
in Dunedin (MX.) conducted a survey
of the health of its scholars. Ten per
cent, were suffering from malnutrition.
Since then our Labor Government has
gone all out to raise the standard of liv-
ing. Every schoolchild receives its free
daily pint of milk, in season each is
provided with a free apple, and
there are free medical attention and free
medicine. Unemployment, so we are
told, has been abolished, wages have
never been higher and, as well as all the
Government benefits, there are many
“Health Camps,” funds for which are
raised by private subscription and by the
sale of health stamps.
This year the same school has taken
another survey of its scholars’ health.
The number suffering from malnutrition
is 10 p.c. And that figure applies
roughly to all schoolchildren examined
by the school doctors throughout M.L.
It all illustrates the futility of “trying
to do good to others.” The raising of
living standards must come from the in-
dividual and cannot be imposed from
outside by act of Parliament. What the
Government really should do is send
parents of undernourished kiddies to a
school to learn cooking and child
management. But just imagine how
popular that would sound on a party
platform!
So 1 suppose our next “progressive”
move will be hot midday meals for
schoolchildren. Then taxes will go up
another notch, the “benefactors” will get
a beatific glow of self-satisfaction and
malnutrition, no doubt, will remain at
10 p.c.—D. MX. (MX ).
Russian Propaganda
Recently the lads in the Repatriation
sanatorium at Kenraore complained that
they were not getting enough entertain-
ment. The Australian-Russian Society
was approached and asked whether it
would do something for the troops. It
was most willing to come once a month
and show “cultural films.” The boys
were most grateful.
The first night arrived and the
scheduled programme consisted of three
films “Swan Lake,” “Ballet” and
“Puppet Show.” The programme, how-
ever, didn’t run true to form; “Swan
Lake” and “Ballet” weren’t screened, but
“Puppet Show” was. This was a ludi-
crous item showing the people as a cat
and a big ogre representing the Czarist
regime. The ogre had the power to
change his form and, when the people
were driven to desperation, he was per-
suaded to change himself into a mouse.
The masses, in the form of the cat, ate
him up. The propaganda wasn’t even
done with any finesse.
Then came a ring-in entitled “Indo-
nesia Calling.” The sound-track in both
shows had broken down and a flesh-and-
blood comrade was able to give his own
commentary and reveal how the poor
“Indernesian comrades” were oppressed
by the wicked capitalistic Dutch.
Australian wharfies played a prominent
part in the picture. The whole show was
too much for the boys of the Old Brigade,
who rose and left tnfe hall in a body,
despite the fact that there was more
“culture” yet to come. — Momokan (Q.).
Fire
The next war will be sudden and un-
heralded by any ultimatum. Australia
is not prepared to repel an attack in
force from any quarter, but even if it
were armed to the teeth it w(*fid still
have an Achilles heel. Hundreds of fac-
tories, large and small, are locked up at
night as if they were lolly shops and left
without adequate means of fire preven-
tion. Millions of pounds worth of irre-
placeable machinery and highly com-
bustible goods are at the mercy of enemy
agents. They could be destroyed cheaply,
swiftly and simultaneously in every State
with practically no danger to the firebug.
Even in our darkest hour I often groped
my way through acres and acres of blacked-
out machine-shops and timber-stacks with-
out meeting a civilian watchman. There
was not a sentry, a rifle, a bayonet or a fire
brigade within miles. With a little strategy
and a box of matches one of our most
vital war industries could have been re-
duced to ashes and scrap iron.
The price of immunity from incendiar-
ism is merely the appointment of a
reasonable number of fire-watchers to
patrol danger spots. Without this insur-
ance premium the country is in constant
danger from a threat more terrible than
an army with banners and bombs. The
recent series of disastrous conflagrations
all over the world may have been
“mysterious” or innocent in their origin,
but they show what a holocaust could
easily be caused by deliberate intent. —
B. Ware (S.A.).
Transport
The Bulletin itself, in “State and
Slavery” (B. 8/10/’47), gives such a com-
plete answer to “L. 1.8.” in the same issue
that there is little more to be said. His
basic theory that we are squandering
millions on different ways of carrying
smaller quantities of goods is ridiculous.
The real facts are, of course, that we
simply cannot get the goods moved fast
enough by road, sea or air, and if there
were some fourth-dimensional method of
transport it would be extremely welcome.
Without road-transport last year far-
mers would have been tragically short
of superphosphates. Loss of that super,
would have meant less wheat, less pro-
duction —the direct antithesis of “L.1.8.’5”
argument., As it happened road-transport
came to tbe rescue.
There are many more instances —whole
lists' of commodities and industrial pro-
ducts lying around in factories, on
wharves and in warehouses for lack of
transport. The present position regarding
wool is acute. A steel traveller told me
today that his firm had nine tons of saws
on the wharf at Sydney. I cannot get
one.
If “L. 1.8.” were to forsake his dream-
world of figures, statistics and graphs
for the real world of hard facts he would
realise that our economy is not con-
tracting—it is struggling against the
artificial bonds of Government “plan-
ning.”—R. if. G. (W.A.).
Road Accidents
- Even when relatively familiar with the
machine he is riding there is still the
danger of a motor cyclist doing the wrong
thing in an emergency (B. 15/10 / ’47).
Because of what psychologists call “re-
gression,” if a rider panics or becomes
excited he may meet the situation with
an action which would have been correct
on the cycle which he first learned to
ride.
Years of investigation by technicians
and psychologists have shown that similar
causes underlie most of the pilot-error
accidents in aviation. Steps have been
taken to prevent these accidents as far
as possible by standardising aircraft con-
trols. Analysis of aircraft accidents and
a study of men, machines and equip-
ment have led to high standards of safety
in aviation.
Road accidents, on the other hand, are
just allowed to happen with little or
no attempt to find and eliminate the
causes. Scientists estimate that five per
cent, of truck-drivers are red-green color
blind and that “the number of people
suffering from defective night vision is
greater than would be expected.” Surely
a few thousand pounds of the petrol tax
could be used to investigate these and
other causes of road deaths. — Kanguhrec
(Vic.). •
Wonderland
Discharged from the Army, I applied
for an advertising course under the
Commonwealth Reconstruction Training
Scheme. The course was granted
promptly enough, the C.R.T.S. official
almost begging me to complete also a
journalism course begun with Army Edu-
cation Service. After six months’ study
my job took me to live in the country.
I wrote to C.R.T.S. asking to do the
courses by correspondence.
Then the fun began. C.R.T.S. wrote
that, advertising could not be done by
correspondence, and asked when I would
be able to be present at further city
classes. I replied that I didn’t know,
that I wouldn’t bother about advertising,
but that I would like to go ahead with
journalism.
Another letter: Did I think I could
manage two courses at once? If so, I
could do both journalism and advertis-
ing by correspondence. Slightly mixed,
I replied that I wished to drop advertis-
ing and continue with journalism. After
five weeks there was a memo asking me
to reply to “Our letter dated .” My
reply was terse, and C.R.T.S. found my
“lost” letter in its files. After this I
was told to “contact” A.E.S., which, of
course, had no record of me. However,
matters were adjusted somehow and I
settled down to my journalism.
Then another memo from C.R.T.S.:
Was I likely to be in the city in the near
future in order to complete the advertis-
ing course? No, I would not be there,
but was I eligible for further training in
journalism when the present lessons were
completed?
Still another memo; My application
for further training was being considered.
In view of the facts, would I be willing
to abandon instruction in advertising?—
“Kindly reply within fourteen days.”
I began writing to C.R.T.S. in Sep-
tember, 1946, and in October, 1947, I
still don’t know exactly where I stand. —•
Mac (N.S.W.).
Hospital Staffs
After the death of her husband, a
friend of mine, well past middle-age, was
thrown on her own resources and had to
find a job. Since she had no special
training, she decided to do whatever work
was possible in a Repatriation hospital.
She applied and was welcomed with open
arms by the “personnel officer,” who sent
her to a large institution where there was
an extreme shortage of staff.
My friend lasted just five days and then
resigned; It wasn’t that the work was too
hard or that there was too much of it.
But she was treated no better than a piece
of furniture. She was appalled by the
curt and often rude manner of the people
in charge, and she was bossed and bullied
in a manner to which she was not ac-
customed and could not tolerate. She did
not expect to be treated with kid-gloves
or favored with work, but she resigned
because of the hardness and unsympa-
thetic outlook of her superiors.
Here was a woman prepared to work,
and work hard, yet for want of en-
couragement and a little understanding
she is now lost to that most needy pro-
fession. Apparently there are others,
including trainee nurses, in the same boat.
Surely the authorities must realise that if
they want staff for hospitals and similar
institutions they must substitute a little
humanity and friendliness for the all-too-
rigid discipline that obtains at present. —
Attendant (N.S.W.).
British Justice
A case recently came before the High
Court of Justice in England which
should give food for thought to Zionist
extremists and others yelping for British
blood.
In 1931 an English firm of leather
merchants appointed an Austrian Jew,
resident in Vienna, as agent for the sale
of their goods, on terms by which he
received a commission on all sales in
Austria. In 1938 Hitler marched east,
and Adstria was incorporated into the
German Reich. Almost immediately the
blitz on Jews commenced.
A decree empowered the commissars to
take possession of Jews’ property. In pur-
suance of this decree a commissar seized
control of the agency, the Jew himself
being placed in a concentration camp.
At that time he had a credit balance of
£2258 with the English merchants. In
May, 1938, he wrote to the merchants
"The car's two-fifty , and for another three hundred we throw in the dog."
telling them that his business had been
“taken over,” and that “no dealing with
my credit balance with you without the
consent of the commissar will be legally
binding.”
The merchants naturally inferred from
this that they were intended thenceforth
to deal with the commissar. They sent
no further goods, but instructed him to
sell on their behalf the goods already on
consignment. He did this, and sent back
notices of the sales but no money. The
merchants therefore debited the Jew’s
credit balance with .the purchase price of
goods sold by the commissar and not
accounted for. The Jew, on being re-
leased after the war, brought an action
in London to recover the £2258 which
was due to him in 1938.
The Court invoked a principle of law
laid down as long ago as 1789, to the
effect that the penal laws of a foreign
country were strictly local, and could
not operate to transfer ownership of
property outside that country. Although
Britain as a nation had recognised the
Hitler regime in Austria, it did not re-
gard this confiscatory law as having extra-
territorial operation. The Jew accord-
ingly was awarded his full £2258.
To anyone nurtured on English law
there is nothing extraordinary in that de-
cision. It is a simple illustration of that
freedom from racial or any other parti-
ality which we have come to expect from
a British Court. But can anyone imagine
it happening in a jurisdiction where the
English tradition does not run, or in that
paradise which will come into existence
in Palestine when the British quit? —
Jake B. (Vic.).
Conversation Piece
Four years ago I boarded a bus and
sat down beside a stranger who sized me
up at a glance, told me correctly to
which races my mixed ancestors belonged
and accused me of being a bookworm.
He them repeated the Lord’s Prayer in a
version older than Caedmon’s, and
rapidly traced the evolution of the Eng-
lish tongue from Boethius to Shaw.
Having engaged my interest he swiftly
sketched the progress of Communism
from Lenin up to that date and went on
to prophesy the activities of the Soviet
in the future. In a masterly way he
foretold the gradual but inexorable spread
of Russian influence over Europe and the
East until the whole Earth would be
divided into two camps, each preparing
politically and militarily for the final
trial of strength. The defeat of Germany
and Japan would make no difference
to the global struggle for supremacy be-
tween two ideologies. A superficial peace
would be only camouflage for under-
ground war until zero hour struck.
Up to the present that prophecy has
been fulfilled in every detail. The
prophet was no fool, and the onfy reason-
able explanation of his ability to foretell
is that he was well informed about the
secret plans of Moscow, and that these
plans were already blue-printed while
planners were appealing to capitalists for
a second front to save Sovietism. Book-
worm (S. A.).
The Whiners
Some American psychologists have
stated that the characteristics of a people
are reflected in the songs they sing, and
that the state of a nation is revealed by
the current popular hits. In view of
post-war happenings arid events, I am
convinced that they are right. Today
there is a preponderance of crooning,
particularly the whining variety.
Never have we had so many whiners;
never so many weak, spineless creatures
whose last thought is to do something for
themselves. The general impression seems
to be that the “Guv’ment” will spoonfeed
every undertaking that anyone who
wishes to branch out on his own,
whether in business, matrimony, parent-
hood or any other normal avenue, will
be subsidised with grants, loans or some
other form of assistance. These grants,
loans and other forms of assistance are
expected to cover the results of in-
efficiency or of plain laziness.
The continual cry is for less work and
more pay, and when these are not im-
mediately forthcoming, there is a grizzle.
Hardship and hard conditions, no
matter how worthy the object, are
generally regarded as things to be
undertaken by fools only. Any work that
entails other than soft living conditions,
with entertainment provided, will not be
done unless there is liberal compensation.
And today our popular music is whin-
ing in its composition and maudlin in
its wording.— Autocles (Vic.).


The Banks
In a debate between Harold Holt,
M. and Senator Sandford, the latter
claimed to know of a case where a bank
called up a £2OOO overdraft, sold the
security and “netted a cool £4000.” The
obvious inference was that the bank mis-
appropriated £4OOO that should have gone
to its customer.
There is a lot of misconception about
this mortgage business. Selling as mort-
gagee is often referred to as “foreclosing,”
which is quite a different legal process
and one that is rarely followed in this
country.
By “foreclosing,” certain rights under
the mortgage are lost to the lender and
the usual practice is to sell as mortgagee
—in fact it is almost the invariable prac-
tice. When selling as mortgagee, very
careful regard must be paid to the rights
of the mortgagor, and if there is any
surplus from the sale after the debt has
been satisfied, then such surplus goes to
the mortgagor. The Senator should have
known that.
People who talk glibly of foreclosing
seem to live in the atmosphere of the old-
time melodrama when the wicked mort-
gagee stalked on the stage and seized the
cottage and anything else he could lay
hands on, including the lovely blonde
heroine. The last thing a bank wants to
own, and be bothered with, is a farm —
although some of the younger clerks
might be interested in the blonde. —
G. D. R. (Vic.).
In 30 years of competition with the
trading banks the Commonwealth Bank
has failed to obtain the business of the
N. S. Wales Government, which banks
with two different institutions. Not even
Chifley’s best friend found it desirable
to make any change during all the years
he was going along quietly as Premier. —
Jindivick (N.S.W.).
■l’ve worked for a trading bank for some
years now and I’m about half-way up
the ladder. I like the job and it likes me
and, given a fair spin. I’ve a good chance
of finishing in the upper reaches of the
business. My greatest aversion is to ever
becoming a Government employee, be-
cause I believe that the public service
stifles initiative and does not offer ade-
quate opportunity for ability to reward
itself. Yet, if Chifley succeeds in nation-
alising banking, I’ll be unable to follow
my chosen profession and, unless I be-
come a public servant, I’ll be out of a
job. If that’s not conscription of labor,
I don’t know what is.—D. D. (W.A.).
In buying, a bank, the principal asset
acquired is “loans, advances and bills dis-
counted.” The quality of these depends
entirely on the sufficiency of the relative
security. This may be the personal re-
sponsibility (and nothing else) of the
borrower or it may be in tangible form
such as farmlands, grazing properties, city
and suburban real estate of all descrip-
tions, mortgage debentures, guarantees
by third parties and a host of others too
numerous to detail.
Unless he is prepared to buy on the
blind and accept the seller’s assurance that
the advances are all good or covered by
reserves, the purchaser would need to
satisfy himself that the various securities
provided good cover for the relative over-
drafts. This would be a gigantic job, as
each individual item of security would
need to be inspected—not only the rela-
tive legal documents but a physical in-
spection of the real estate involved. Time
would most certainly not permit of this
work being properly done before the next
election.
Mr. Chifley is apparently so satisfied
with the good quality of all the trading
banks’ advances and the complete in-
tegrity of the different managements that
he is prepared to pay out to the share-
holders and swallow the lot. — Ceg (Vic.),
Profits made by trading banks are dis-
tributed to shareholders, of whom there
are 100,000 in Australia. Hence they
create more employment and are of Tar
more benefit to the community than
would be the case if they fell into the
hands of a Government, already drunk
with power and an overful Treasury, to
be squandered in the payment of non-
productive boards, inflated salaries and
pensions for politicians.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
“Retired Banker” (B. 8/10/’47) deals
only with the Sydney side of the crisis of
1893. The brunt of the storm fell upon
Melbourne, where certain banking chiefs
faced it and successfully rode it out, their
action softening the blow for Sydney
banks.
These bankers, ignoring the fatuous
lengthy holiday decree of the panic-
stricken Patterson Government, kept their
doors open and met all clamoring de-
positors’ demands, paying out in gold.
The immediate effect was such that some
of the surprised depositors tried to with-
draw their cheques, while the confidence
of other clients was confirmed. As a
result the day’s takings equalled out-
goings and the run collapsed. Those
banks which observed the holiday did not
open until after reconstruction.
The N. S. Wales Government, in mak-
ing banknotes legal tender, complemented
the action of the Melbourne banking
chiefs, the value of which has never been
sufficiently recognised. But for their
action there would have been panic
throughout Australia. Melbourne
(N.S.W.).
At the Scout Jamborees in Sydney and
Melbourne before the war, and at the
Corroboree at Loftus early this year, the
Bank of N. S. Wales set up a special
bank building on the grounds to give the
boys the privilege of banking facilities
whilst in camp. They banked their money
on arrival and withdrew it —in amounts
usually ranging from one penny to two
bob —at all sorts of hours—lo a.m. to
3 p.m. did not mean a thing to them.
One youngster who wanted to go for an
early-morning swim dug the living-in
member of the staff out of his bed at
6 a.m. to draw out a penny, and got it
without a growl. Imagine a Common-
wealth public servant letting himself be
dragged out of bed to give a kiddie a
penny at 6 a.m., or the institution haying
enough imagination to open a bank in a
Scout camp!—C. G. I. (N.S.W.).
During the war the private bank in our
shopping centre had to close its branch as
a result of the regulation restricting the
number of branches of trading banks.
That left a branch of the Commonwealth
Bank with a monopoly of local custom.
The private bank reopened its branch
only a week before Chifley announced his
intention to nationalise banking and has
since done excellent business, being well-
supported locally and by people who
come from adjacent centres to bank there.
That an establishment under threat of
extinction should get such encouraging
custom is a striking indication of public
recognition of the need for trading banks.
—Tom (N.S.W.).
Dr. Lloyd Ross, one of Canberra’s
bureaucrats, says that the people control
the Commonwealth Bank through Parlia-
ment by means of their vote. Nonsense.
The only control people have today over
the Commonwealth Bank is exercised by
their ability to go to other banks for
accommodation. Take away that choice
and democratic control disappears.
The number of voters who understand
the Government’s banking policy would
be well under one per cent. Yet we are
asked to believe that a mass vote taken
during the hysterical propaganda of a
general election, when everything except
banking was mentioned, represents the
people’s will on banking.—J. G. (Tas.).
From a private bank one can withdraw
whatever money one has in account and
no questions are asked. Try drawing a
large sum from the Commonwealth, even
after giving the necessary notice, and you
find an official politely asking why you
need it. Authorities explain it is just so
that they can keep a check on the channels
into which money flows and that the
client is not compelled to answer. Not
now, of course, but it is frightening to
think what will happen when and if the
Commonwealth show gets a monopoly of
•the business. — Mark Time (Q.).
Processions
Time was when workers rolled up in
thousands to march proudly beneath their
respective banners on Labor Day, identi-
fying themselves with their trade or call-
ing. The glass-blowers, for instance, were
each armed with a wand of their own
handiwork ; they were class-conscious and
not ashamed of their badges.
The scene has changed. The “slaves”
now line the route as spectators, dressed
like bosses, equipped with racquets or
field glasses and ready to rush off to
beaches, racecourses and playing grounds.
The actual processions have degenerated
into advertising displays for big business.
Take away the handsome vehicles of
capitalist producers and distributors and
there would be little left to look at or
applaud.
A few weatherbeaten banners and a
pitifully few diehard marchers still strive
to preserve the old traditions, but they
alone would not stop the traffic or draw
a crowd. Can it be that the gloriously
arrayed youths of today are too aristo-
cratic to walk humbly before men and
before their glamorised girls, openly ad-
mitting that they earn the basic wage by
the sweat of their brow and the soiling
of their manicured hands? — Dainty
(S.A.).
Home Building
Wanting to build my own home I
applied to the War Service Homes
Department for one of the blocks it
has reserved for us in my locality. After
three weeks filling in forms and getting
my wife to run backwards and forwards
with them I received an entirely new one,
which had “come into being since you
first made application.”
I filled that one in and was then told
that I must make a second choice of
blocks as there was no guarantee that I
could buy the one I wanted. In the
meantime I consulted a private builder
and architect, who is proceeding with the
blueprints for the home. He has been
out and is starting on the job, but I still
haven’t heard yet whether or not the land
will be sold to me. That in spite of the
fact that the department received transfer
of gratuity 12 days ago.
The architect refused to allow me to
finance the project through the W.S.H.D.
because of the “red tape.” He insisted
that Igo to a bank. What an advertise-
ment for the W.S.H.D. when a builder of
experience and integrity refuses to deal
through it.— Repatriate (Q.).
Contrast
A young ex-serviceman bought a small
business at a seaside village. The place
has a permanent population of about
200, with holiday crowds of
up to 1000, but cannot boast
one commercial refrigerator.
Milk and smallgoods come
by bus from 13 miles away.
Cold drinks are unobtain-
able.
The young Digger
naturally wanted to expand
his business. He proposed
to install a refrigerator. But
his rented premises were
“inadequate,” and the local
health inspe c to r had
dropped a hint that they
were not up to require-
ments. Application to build
a new store, costing about
£3OO, was refused on the
ground that all materials
were required for housing.
Visiting a country golf
club less than one month
after the refusal I found builders
extending what appeared to be ade-
quate premises. I was told that a
new room, about 16ft. square, would
house the bar and poker-machines, while
enclosing the verandahs would make
more room for social functions. This
club has no liquor licence, its poker-
machines are illegal and its social func-
tions are usually grog-and-gambling
affairs with admission by invitation and
no entertainment tax paid.
And N, S. Wales Premier McGirr said
“To hell with everything except hous-
ing!”—South Creek (N.S.W.).
Unionism
A boot-machinist who attended her
first union meeting in Adelaide’s Trades
Hall affirms it will be her last. Only a
few unionists were present, and it was evi-
dent why such gatherings are dominated
by a handful of extremists.
On the agenda was the appointment of
a new secretary. He was duly elected,
but refused the job until his salary was
increased to £9 a week only £2 10s.
more than a top tradesman receives. And
the secretary has an assistant.
The question of incentive pay was
introduced, but it was ruled out.
The comrades were opposed to “blood-
suckers sweating employees.” Incentive
pay would have meant 9s. extra pocket
money for the girls, but that was im-
material.
Union bosses wield absolute power,
and a showdown is long overdue before
Australian workers become serfs like
their brethren in “the workers’ paradise.”
—A. D. (S.A.).
“Tied”
“P.R.” (B. 8/ 9 / ’47) tells how the
scheme benefits small chemists. The same
system affects thousands of small store-
keepers to the benefit of all concerned.
Jones has £lOO and decides to start a
grocery business. He gives a bill of sale
over his stock and plant to a wholesale
house and gets proportionate credit to
fill his shelves. Bills are paid monthly,
subject to discount. There is an under-
standing that Jones will handle a fair
quantity of his backer’s proprietary lines.
The storekeeper is his own boss, and
there is nothing to prevent his enlarging
his business or profits if he has the
energy and ability. If he loafs he will
wind up behind somebody else’s counter.
The wholesaler gets a market, the store-
keeper a living, the public well-distributed
service. Competition keeps courtesy high
and prices low ; industry is rewarded and
misfits are weeded out.
Of course the system is capitalistic, but
if it were suddenly eliminated the com-,
munity would suffer a worse jolt than it
receives from all the strikes and hold-ups
put together.— Service (S.A.).
Root of the Matter
Is the Government ever going to deal
with blackmarketing? The small fines
imposed on the few caught don’t mean
a thing and are only regarded as part of
business expenses. There should be im-
prisonment without the option, with
a heavy fine as well. The gentry who
engage in blackmarketing are the last
type to appreciate hard labor in H.M.
prisons. And, after a conviction, the
taxation department should make an
immediate search for the hidden lucre.—
Simple Simon (N.S.W.).
“Momokan” (B. 3/9/’47), in describing
the reaction of his Papuan “boys” to theif
“liberation,” is sound in his psychology.
Our black brothers go walkabout
oftener as their pay gets higher. Our
white brethren do likewise. — Unquote
(S.A.).
Why are kids still lined up in hot old
playgrounds and marched into school?
Even tiny tots know where their class-
room and individual desks are. To make
them all be seated at their desks within
a few minutes of bell-ring would give
them a stronger sense of independence
and self-imposed sense of duty and
punctuality.— Eve Merritt (N.S.W.).
In a recent newspaper report, details
were given of Sydney slums, and I noticed
the familiar names of streets which were
known as slums 35 years ago. Yet, in
that time, N. S. Wales has had its share
of “ ‘Labor’ Government” and more than
its share of Mr. Ward. When Mr. Ward
has remedied the conditions under which
many of his own constituents live I shall
be prepared to give a more attentive
hearing to his views on the exploitation of
the proletariat by banks and industry. —
Obelist (Tas.).
A property-owner earning £lOOO a year
who spends a hundred or more on
assurance and doctors’ bills receives cor-
responding tax rebates. If, however, he
gives £2OO to help the suffering folk in
Britain he will find that, instead of being
£2OO poorer, he has been made to pay a
further £52 on the money he gave up and
is thus £252 worse off— Springrove
(S.A.).
At the official welcome to the first of
the Lockheed Constellations at Mascot
early in October the Minister for Air
constantly referred to “Mr. Hudson
Smith” instead of Hudson Fysh and, al-
though he was welcoming an aircraft
named Ross Smith, failed completely to
mention the fact that Ross Smith’s
brother Keith was present at the func-
tion. His knowledge of people and
matters connected with Australian avia-
tion is peculiar but not extensive. —
Recco (N.S.W.).
Wholesale butchers are still delivering
carcasses to the retailers in the same old
filthy way. I watched a wholesale de-
livery wagon stand open to the dust of
George-street, Sydney, for 30 minutes one
day while the driver was delivering. A
strong wind was blowing. Surely it is not
beyond the inventive genius of Aus-
tralians to produce something more suit-
able for the wholesale delivery of meat.
—Bogan Joe (N.S.W.),
Add to the good work of the R.A.A.F.-
operated Australia-Japan courier service
(B. 15/10/’47) the R.A.A.F. Catalina
crews who pioneered the Pacific route
now used by A.N.A. and other airlines.
All of the 170 Catalinas used by the
R.A.A.F. during the war were ferried
by Australians from California to Rath-
mines (N.S.W.). . These crews flew over
1,500,000 miles, yet today we never hear
even a thank-you from the big chiefs
controlling civil aviation in Australia.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Since petrol rationing seems to be here
for a long time, car-registration fees
should be adjusted according to the petrol-
ration scale. My ration* of six gallons
allows me about 200 miles a month
one-sixth of the journey that “Govern-
ment” Chrysler made to fetch Mr. Ward s
luggage—but I know others with similar
cars who receive anything up to 20 gallons
for business reasons. It seems most un-
fair that I should pay the same registra-
tion tax for my 200 miles as the man who
does 600—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).


5
t
P>T"
*•* -MWiis
aa'se*'
jIL
WIRELESS
At Sea, On Land,
And In The Air
Incorporated in 1913, A.W.A. laid the foundations of the
wireless industry in Australia. It rapidly expanded and set
up the manufacture of Wireless Telegraph and Telephpne
Equipment, Broadcast Transmitters and “Radiola” Receivers.
The achievements of A.W.A. have been of a very high order,
and to-day the industry in Australia is comparable in manu-
facturing and technical efficiency with the extensive wireless
organisations of Great Britain and America.
The policy of developing every phase of wireless in Australia
and the Pacific largely accounts for the goodwill and prestige
A.W.A. to-day enjoys.
★
Designers and Manufacturers .
of
Broadcasting Transmitting Stations
Wireless Telegraph and Telephone Stations
Marine Wireless Telegraph Equipment
Aeronautical Radio Equipment
Public Address and Sound Amplifying Systems
“Radiola” Broadcast Receivers
*
Broadcast Station 2CH
Marconi School of Wireless
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’SIAy LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
