

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 68 -No. 3504
Wednesday, April 9, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as ? Newspaper
Seppelts
THE GTAVE PF GERALD GRIFFIN.
TN this series of views presented by The House of Seppelt, unusual
A interest attaches to this scene from the Fair Hill cemetery of the
Christian Brothers and the grave of Gerald Griffin. One of
Ireland’s most famous sons, Griffin was born in Limerick, 1803.
His works include Tales of the Munster Festivals and The Col-
legians, a novel published in 1829, used by Dion Boucicault in his
play The Colleen Bawn. As well as dramatic works and novels.
Gerald Griffin wrote much verse, but his name is chiefly
remembered in connection with the teaching society of the
Christian Brothers which was founded by Griffin. The scene pic-
tured recalls Thomas Gray’s lines :
“Hark how the sacred calm that breathes around
Bids every fierce tumultuous passion cease;
In still small accents whispering from the ground,
A grateful earnest of eternal peace.”


nimitel
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovt obligation, your New Fret
(i oaklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
it/?/ Name
My Address
8.8. 247 AGE
The Red Page
POINT LOOKOUT .
Whiter and bluer the water,
The cliff too stark
But for bent fisherman
Grey gull, black shark.
Let in the sea to
The tunnel under the land,
Bring down the sudden storm
With lightning, and
Suffer the hardest rain
To wash away
The years and the soil,
Today and yesterday.
But change must come so slow,
A shadowed sorrow
Slides off pandanus leaves
With sun tomorrow.
Not half a mile beyond
The battering sea
Shell mounds recall
Archaic corroboree.
Black men, fish feasting,
Love and song and rhyme —
Will all return here,
Swimming out of time.
Here is the end of a world;
Earth, sea and skies
On this scarred rock
Have reached a compromise .
N.S.W,
NANCY KEESING.
Australia's "Billy."
There is a great book still to be
written around the Life and Times of
William Morris Hughes. He is now 82£
years old, and 62 of those years he has
spent in Australia.
As an Australian citizen he is thus just
a little older'than the Labor party, and
he has sat in Parliament —first in the New
South Wales Assembly and then in the
Commonwealth House of Representatives
—for 53 unbroken years of active political
life, nearly all of them in representation
first of West and latterly of North Sydney.
For roughly the middle 16 of those years
(the most important of his career) he
held the Victorian seat of Bendigo, but
as careers "go the man known as “Billy”
from one end of Australia to the other is
Sydney’s own indelible, undeniable con-
tribution to the rough-and-tumble in the
political life of this democracy for half
a century.
It is surely a reproach to this genera-
tion, if not the one that went before it,
that no biography of him has been
written. We have not cultivated in this
country the leisured class necessary to
produce such a work, for the research re-
quired would be considerable; and while
University endowments remain things un-
fashionable in our community, and, like
culture, a bit of a luxury as well as poor
sort of bait for election votes, research
students are unlikely to spend their prime
of life in the unprofitable labor of his-
torical biography. Nor is W. M. Hughes
a good sitter for such a portrait.
He is not, of course, a good sitter for
anything, as many a stalker, well or
evilly disposed, has found out. But for
the job which, one may safely postulate,
must be done sooner or later, “Billy”
has to more than one personal inquirer
let it be known that he has no papers,
correspondence or diaries that would
provide any sort of biographer’s guide.
Added to which he has a conviction —
well rooted by now —that nobody could
possibly tell his story as well as himself.
His reminiscences just published, Crusts
and Crusades (Angus and Robertson), are
carefully selected “tales of bygone days.”
They are “Billy yarns,” but not of that
choicest sort to which many men have
cheerfully listened for His pre-
face confesses a desideratum that his
audience shall have a knowledge of his
early background. And for these “tales”
it probably has not.
Mr. Hughes offers 25 of them with a
chapter for each, but he strictly eschews
any stories of his Parliamentary life, or
of politics since the ’nineties, giving as
excuses (1) that “people are sick of party
politics” ; (2) that he refuses to be guilty
of “telling tales out of school” against
brother Parliamentarians ; and (3) “be-
sides, I have written two books which,
with my speeches and pamphlets, cover
the intervening years more or less ade-
quately.”
Well, among Mr. Hughes’s contem-
poraries, or part-contemporaries, during
those exciting years of Australia’s early
struggles to nationality, this citizen, "at
any rate, begs to differ. The published
writings and speeches invoked do not by
any means give us the whole loaf from
which these Crusts are cut. For the his-
torical truth is, however much his friends
and foes may have to forgive him, that
William Morris Hughes’s life and work
are wrapped up inseparably with three
great stages of democratic growth in
this Commonwealth. They are the rise
of the common man’s enthusiasm for poli-
tical reform in the ’nineties which gave
the early Labor movement, as Hughes
says, the aura of a religious crusade;
the acceptance thereafter of citizen re-
sponsibilities as well as citizen rights; and
the trial and vindication in war of the
principles thus endorsed by the people
of the young Commonwealth.
The Labor party, when it drove
Hughes out in 1917, not only
lost a great leader, but also jet-
tisoned ideals by which it had claimed
and received the popular confidence, and
for the next 25 years it was a rabble.
Till the great split over the issue of con-
scription for the First World War —the
logical corollary of universal military
training in time of peace—Australian
Labor did not appreciate how much
Hughes represented of its favor with the
Australian electorate. Hughes was its
chief captain in the fight for industrial
and political rights of .the working man.
He was the first, and remained the lead-
ing champion, in the early Federal Par-
liaments for universal military training as
a duty owed by the citizen to the State
which protected his rights and his standard
of living. Hughes converted first
his own leader, then Deakin, and finally
Reid to that principle; in no wise more
strikingly did he emerge from dominating
influence in a party to the full stature
of a national, leader.
Whatever the source of his inspiration
—whether he was swayed by a logical
mind, well stored , from study of history
and of the political philosophers with
whose .works the Domain Crusaders
fascinated public audiences of the ’nine-
ties, or by a Celtic prescience of stress to
come —Hughes was soon proved by
events to be right, and the decade from
1911 to 1921 was the high tableland of
his career. He led Australia through
the war with the same bold resolution
that he had shown in the great fight for
establishment of the trade unions and
the elevation of the Labor party in Par-
liament. Whatever Australians may have
thought about it, the British people and
those of other Dominions recognised,
in Hughes’s political elan in the debates
by the Imperial War Cabinet on conduct
of the First World War, the perfect
counterpart of the A.l.F.’s prowess on
the battlefield. If one man above others
during the past 50 years has led Australia
into nationhood, it is William Morris
Hughes. When all his faults arp cata-
logued, that claim to Australia’s gratitude
stands unimpeachable.
Robespierre “passing up the French
Revolution” is no parallel for him, but
of Robespierre Hilaire Belloc wrote an
exordium which could nearly fit Hughes:
He held first a group, then a great poli-
tical machine, then a sovereign assembly,
and at last a nation, attentive. He be-
came the title and front of the republic;
the kings regarded him; .he put some fear
into the priests; the armies converged upon
his tenement; the general run of society
stood aghast at his supposed enormities;
the most generous, the most practical, and
the most violent of the great Reformers
alike insisted upon his bearing their stand-
dard; he may become for the martyrs and
prophets of complete democracy an idol,
as he has already become their legend.
Whence did this astonishing contrast be-
tween his native probable career and his
actual fate proceed? It proceeded from the
fact that his character contained a some-
thing which the special nature of the time
craved, which it insisted upon and would
not abandon He had to an inhuman (or
if the word be preferred), an heroic degree
the potentiality of complete conviction; for
God had given him a kind of stone taber-
nacle within the soul where he could
treasure absolute truths, and this tabernacle
remained impregnable.
So Crusts and Crusades, which people
will read from cover to cover, seeking
always something a bit better than “Billy”
is giving them in the chapter just con-
cluded, leaves this reader at least look-
ing up like one of Lycidas’s hungry sheep.
Better “Billy stories” than these have been
told by Billy himself, and newspapermen
from the Leeuwin to Sandy Cape could
add to them without much difficulty.
Would he really lacerate personal feelings
here and there too severely if he set him-
self—granted that he were capable of the
effort as an octogenarian— to recount how
Labor in office had, and still has, to be
re-educated in democratic practice ; of the
fight for establishment of compulsory ser-
vice ; of Sinn Fein in Australian politics ;
of how he barnstormed war-time Britain ;
of how he challenged Merton’s; of the
back-stage scenes at Versailles? David
Low’s Billy Book might serve to illus-
trate some of it.
As for Billy stories, the trouble is not
to start but to stop them. Older London
pressmen still remember one of Hughes
as a guest at an informal Cabinet dinner
given by Lloyd George after the Armis-
tice of 1918. The table had been cleared
of all but the fruit and wine, and some-
body contributed Deakin’s name to the
talk on the professional matter of sway-
ing public audiences. “Ah, Deakin,” said
Billy, "'now he, by God, could make you
believe anything he wanted. Silver-
tongued is right. He could whistle fish
out of water or coax a duck across a
desert. If he”—and Billy reached across
to a fruit dish and seized a banana —
“if he chose to talk on this banana, and
to convince the mob that it was a torpedo,
by God, in five minutes it was a bloody
torpedo” ; and with that he flung it over
their heads into a corner of the room.
Probably there would be wigs on the
green if he came out in print with the
story he told at a North Sydney meeting
in 1929 when a well-known citizen
entered the local lists against him with
the cry that the time had come for the
old families in this land to stand together.
Still, that story was the real “Billy.”
ORION.
Lords of Lord's.
Three sticks are poked into the ground,
close together. A chain away a man
crouches, runs, bounds and hurls a ball
at them. Another man, armed with a
wide stick, guards the three stakes from
the man who hurls the ball.
If the man with the wide stick hits
the ball, he runs rapidly in the direction
of three more sticks poked in the ground,
But if he fails to hit it, and it collides
with fhe three sticks he is guarding, he
trudges sadly from the scene and another
man takes his place. Thousands of
people go to sports grounds to see this
sort of thing happening. Mr. Neville
Cardus makes his living describing how
the man with the stick hits the ball,
And at a place called Lord’s, in Eng-
land, schoolboys from Eton defended
their three sticks so valiantly against
some more schoolboys from Harrow that,
in 1869, the following spectacle was re-
There was an orgy of wild ekciteS-
ment such as I had never dreamed of and
have never witnessed since; and in the
?t. k w°L i Proust of*|S”, d Drp»&:
transformed into a Bacchanal, dancing bare-
headed, and waving his hat like the mad-
dest of us all.
Pelham Warner’s Lord’s: 1787-1945
(Harrap) is a history of the piece of
ground in England where this incident
occurred. A foreigner, of course, would
be quite justified in thinking the title
indicated a history of the British peer-
age; and in fact the author records that
when a British was elected a
member of the M.C.C., and a cable was
sent to him stating that he had been
“elected to Lord’s,” his Italian guards
BaVe
h '^S a Mr.
Thomas Lord who in 1786~backed in-
deed bv two peers—started a private
ground tte stick game might be
played. And qn that ground—or on a
Ltrh nf that kent the name of
Lordk when the pkyers were forced to
change their notable men
were seen. The Rev. Lord Frederick
Beauclerk, D.D., for instance, a descend-
ant of Charles II and Nell Gwyn. Lord
Hrederick used to bet larae sums on the
LreaeriCK usea 10 net targe sums
matches in which he played ; and wms-
pers have come down through the years”
that the rev gentleman would sometimes
sell a match.
There was also a William Waid, who
wielded a bat weighing four pounds, and
used it for fifty years. And a player
named George Osbaldeston, nicknamed
“the Squire.” He killed 98 pheasants in
100 shots, fought a duel, lost £200,000
on the Turf and “was pretty handy with
his fists, promoting many a fight.”
And Arthur Haygarth who
batted for three hours for 16 for the M.C.C.
for H r P CeMl’em» rpi?yer? a “1846 Sen
he was in four hours for 26.
There was George Parr, who led a
team to Australia in 1864. He excelled
in hitting to leg; and “to this day there
is a tree at Trent Bridge—‘Parr’s Tree’ —
into which he hit many a ball. When
he died, a branch of this tree was laid
on his grave.” There was the player
named Julius Caesar, a genuine name;
and “there is a match on record in which
twelve Caesars took the field.” And—
who remembers them now?—Tiger, King
Cole and Dick-a-Dick;—
A team of Australian Aboriginals, the
first Colonial team to visit this country,
met the M.C.C. and were beaten by 55
runs. The Aboriginals played no fewer
than 47 matches. Their names make inter-
estmg reading—“ Tiger,” “Redcap,” “King
Cole,” “Dick-a-Dick” and ' “Twopenny”—
and in the field each man wore a different-
colored scarf pink, yellow, magenta.
During intervals of a match they often
gave us exhibitions of throwing the boom-
erang. \
Coming to 1878, Warner records “a
landmark in cricket history, for the Aus-
tralians paid their first visit to this
country”; and the astonishing match
which “established the fame of Aus-
tralian cricket for all time” when “in
one day, in the short space of four and a
half hours of actual play, on a very
sticky wicket, they defeated a powerful
side by nine wickets.”
And so there are Spofforth, Trumper
and W. G. Grace Grace who made
54,896 runs in first-class cricket. And so
to Bradman, of whom Warner wrote in
1930:
Bradman looked every inch a cricketer
.... One was particularly struck by the
fit of his cricket boots on his small feet;
and I think that he should present his
boots to the Australian nation, to be placed
in the pavilion in Sydney, there to be kept
.in a glass case for future generations to
gaze on, and to inspire them to some-
thing like his own nimbleness of foot.
We are all a little mad. Talking about
the England v. Dominions match in 1945,
Warner remarks “the tone and pace of
the match was set in the opening innings
by the New Zealander M. P. Donnelly,
a great left-hander, who scored a splendid
133”; and Martin Donnelly, though
Warner doesn’t know it, came from the
noble town of Eltham ; and at Eltham,
though the great world knows it not,
Uncle George hit one clean over the high
macrocarpa hedge at Taumata Park and
it landed, right across the road, on top
of the cheese factory. A feat never to be
forgotten.
It is, after all, a sublime sort of mad-
ness. And, appropriately, one of the last
incidents Warner mentions is that on July
29, 1944, during the Army v. R.A.F.
match, a flying bomb landed very close
by. “The players and umpires lay on
the ground, and spectators were to be
seen in curious postures in # the pavilion
and round the ground.” When every-
body discovered he was still alive the
game continued and, “amid tremendous
cheers,” J. D. Robertson hooked the first
ball for six.
Reviewed Briefly.
Wind in the Heath: Phyllis Downe
(Georgian House). A travel book in the
form of letters. Miss Downe, visiting
Sydney in 1939, was impressed by the
Bridge, visited Taronga Park and ob-
served “the clear blue sky, and the golden
sand, and the great, foamy breakers” at
Coogee. England is described in a like
manner. Chief merits are details of fares,
etc., some good photographs and warmth
of feeling.
Treasure Lies Buried Here: Frank H.
Goldsmith (C. H. Pitman: Robertson and
Mullens). Concerns wrecks off the Wes-
tralian coast, with figures, maps and de-
tails calculated to stir the pulses of trea-
sure-hunters: also a four-act play based
on the wreck of Pelsart’s Batavia.
The Outlook of Science : R. L. Worrall,
M. 8., Ch.M. (Staples Press). Leaves one
with the comforting feeling that scientists
may, in some respects, be as mad as their
fellows. As an explanation of what may
loosely be called “dialectic materialism”
it is unconvincing: although one may
well bfc worried by passages such as this
—chosen arbitrarily from page 112:—'
If Hogben could realise that the concep-
tion of the dialectic is' derived from the
contradictory relations and development ot
the material universe, he would perhaps be
less ready to read idealism into Zavadov-
sky’s paper. One who advocates “recognis-
ing the implications of the behaviorist stand-
point” would do well to recognise the
materialism of dialectic materialism, which
■ gathered the grain of Hegel’s logic while
leaving behind the chaff of his idealism.
Great play is made with the names of
Whitehead, Berkeley, Jeans, Engels, Hal-
dane, Marx, Lenin, Einstein, Pavlov
and Levy. Lenin, perhaps, in the final
analysis has the best of it. Amid the
chaff of dialectics there are some genuine
grains of scientific fact, and philosophers,
being an argumentative race, and apt t°
disagree on the interpretation of simple
words, should find much to quarrel with.
Much of the material seems ill-digested;
and, from a particular premise, such as
the influence of the pituitary gland on the
human organism, the author is apt to
plunge into general conclusions concern-
ing the necessity for a “proletarian” con-
trol of society.
Heed McGlarity: A novel by Stephen
Kelen (Mingay Publishing Co.). Con-
tains excellent opinions concerning Aus-
tralia, population, immigration and the
like, thinly sugar-coated by characterisa-
tion. ‘ But Professor McGlarity, once
started, is apt to run on for pages in the
style of a leading article, and the expedi-
ent seems altogether too thin. Factual
essays would have served the purpose
better.


GIVE A DONATION TO-DAY TO THE FOOD FOR BRITAIN APPEAL AT OUR OFFICIAL RECEIVING DEPOT, GROUND FLOOR, PITT
4
We can supply your every Chemistry need from headache
powders to callous cures. Visit our well-stocked Pharmacy
to-day for your remedies and also to have your prescriptions
promptly and accurately dispensed.
{ m
4
m
: ■
lli
rui *
> r <.
:- I | I iiW I'll r : i IB I\ I Mmm4
f.
\ :- i mßmp i h?M 1*111' :
4-A\ ill
R
~V A
! nJ
I :
HP* I trfpq UUyfl llll^^' 5 ' I wi*
ri&fi IBlPCZ:::::: * j jfe«
«Mtwoc».v ■;&• •< Latowwo- i' - f >•* » , ' V, L |* • . I «• li*j»cec<^ v l<l?9v. I v A ‘ w
1 iR/
r »N
' >
/vm*;
II:" ::B\' v|y
'>•« ! . -f
‘ !' i ..o
*:
\ •
J,l:l^lssss
'V -i.
\\ V \
\ \f-4
is:ei
!
S"
y
v*- /
' / • ••
I
/
*
j v ISM;
w
✓ V
i
i
£
s^:
/ '
I i
' f I : I
m
m
m
mm
USS
SSS
£*S
‘l3^>
e v
- /
\l'
w
s
r
..~s:*
\
4 .'
•’A
m
m
m
GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET
VIMALT GENERAL TONIC, a fruity.
flavoured, vitalizing, nutritious malt containing Halibut Liver
Oil with Iron and Mineral Salts. 1 lb. jar 3/9
PENTA-KAPS, the soluble gelatin capsules
containing vitamins A, B, 82,B 2 , D and C, Nicotinamide, Panto-
thenic Acid and Pyridoxine Hydrochloride. 100 capsules.
Price, per box 24/-
CLOTABS. Halibut Liver Oil extract tablets, rich in
Vitamins A and D. Tested by the highest authorities for their I
nutritive value, they are priced at 100 tablets for
VIBETONE, a general tonic, is enriched by
the addition of appreciable amounts of Vitamins
B x and Iron to a tonic of glycerophosphates and
strychnine. Price for a 1 lb. jar 3/9
ELASTIC ATHLETIC SEPPORTS
Only the highest quality of material and craftsmanship
are employed in the manufacture of Johnson & Johnson
Suspensory Bandages and Athletic Supporters. A com-
plete line is made to meet every need. Price ... 4/- each
ELASTIC TRESSES. ,w e have supplies of
all styles of Elastic Trusses, made from best quality
British elastic. Price, from 19/6
w
PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C. G.P.0.. SYDN


li
•to
Tested and /
found correct K
The photograph ehows the safety test for the
Hawkesbury River Bridge, N.S.W. Clyde-
built locomotives—also tested and found cor*
rect—were used for the purpose.
CLYDE
—”
ŵ
ẁ
every product of Clyde i$ subjected to exhaustive tests for quality, long
life and efficiency. That is why Clyde Batteries for cars, trucks, buses
radio and home lighting are preferred by countless battery users.
An *dvL of The Clyde Engineering Co. ted.. Granville. N-S.W.
Merchandise Sales Division—
BTDNET. BRISBANE. MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
EYE LOTION
lor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose &Co..Pty..Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
HARTS
Circular Charts io> all types d
Recording Instruments (or any class
o< Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Gel our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. o‘lD.
“When I was younger..
I discovered how to RELAX”
“You know the old adage, ‘Care
killed the cat.’ Care looked like killing
me, so I set myself to learn deliber-
ately to relax to shut my worries
away when I shut my office. It wasn’t
easy until I tried the effect of
taking a couple of whiskies before the
evening meal. That was all I needed!
Just something to break the tension!
“If you’re contemplating the same
routine, here are two hints. Be mod-
erate ration yourself. And choose
a well matured whisky. Whisky is at
its best when it
reaches a certain age.”
A Whisky does not enter its prime
until beyond the age of five years. In
its first five years, a steady progression
of changes brings it from the rawness
of immaturity to the mellowness of
fine bouquet and smoothness on the
tongue. The brands of the United
Distillers Pty. Ltd., Distillers Cor-
poration Pty. Ltd., and Federal
Distillers Pty. Ltd., are fine whiskies
and are not offered for sale until
over five years old (more than
double the minimum prescribed
by Commonwealth law).
mm
: ■
\ V*
m
w
Whisky
at its prime over 5 years old
Wl6/33
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy a copy of Journalism A to Z. —3978.
To buy Maynard’s The Australian Dairy
Farmers’ Handbook. —3979.
English girl (18), 12 months’ nursing experi-
ence, seeks position in or near Sydney as gover-
ness or children’s nurse.—3980.
To buy copy of Archbold’s Criminal Plead-
ings. —3981.
Teacher of Science (Chemistry, Physics and
Biology) with experience in S.A. and N.S.W.
seeks position in N.S.W. or Q’land.—3984.
Information Sought.
What diet is beneficial for rheumatoid
arthritis, and what foods should be avoided?
There is usually a cause—fatigue and debility
in any form tend to aggravate the trouble in the
uric-acid subject. Diathermy, hot foments and
vapor baths, and massage with warm oil are
remedies of repute. Sulphate of soda in a glass
of warm water each morning is a useful
aperient—your doctor may prescribe iodine in
an assimilable form if symptoms persist. In the
diet (always subject to those rationing fellows)
avoid pork, veal, ham ? bacon, corned beef,
tomatoes, rhubarb, onions, peas, cucumber,
nuts, sauces, pickles and pastry. The following
are permitted: Mutton, lamb, chicken and
white meats, fresh 'fish, cabbage, spinach, celery,
cauliflower, pumpkin, marrow, apples, oranges,
weak tea, cocoa, milk, barley-water, butter,
toast and clear soup. Eat sparingly of jam,
sugar, stewed and preserved fruits, cheese, rice
and tapioca.
* * * *
Is the Venus of Medici still accepted as the
most perfect female figure? If not, what are
the measurements of the female figure adjudged
perfect by present-day standards?
Although adjudged the most perfect human
figure, the Venus of Medici is not generally
accepted in present-day standards of measure-
ment- There are certain rules of proportion for
different parts of the body to each other upon
which both the anatomist and beauty judge
base their opinions as to requirements of femin-
ine beauty. Generally accepted measurements
are: Height sft. 4in., waist 284 in., hips 36in.,
thigh 19|in., knee 13iin., ankle Biin., bust
34iin., wrist 6|in.
* ♦ * «
How is the date of Easter calculated?
Easter Sunday is always the first Sunday after
the full moon which happens upon or next after
March 21. If the full moon falls on a Sunday,
Easter Sunday is the Sunday after. Church of
England Prayer Book-contains tables by which
Easter can be calculated up to the year 2199.
* * * *
Who waj Thomas the Rhymer? /
He was Thomas Learmont, of Ercildoune
(1220-1297), a Scottish poet and prophet. He
had a reputation almost equal to Merlin’s, and
in the “Scotichronicon” he foretells the death of
Alexander. Wyntoun asserts that he prophesied
the result of the battle of Kilbane. He is
mentioned in the works of Barbour, Harry the
Minstrel and Hector Boece. See Murray’s The
Romance and Prophecies, Brandt’s Thomas of
Ercildoune and Mumby’s Early Scottish Prophe-
cies and The Whole Prophecies of Scotland.
* * * *
How is wood prepared to make a school
blackboard ?
The wood must be smooth and free from
knots, shakes and cracks. Proportions for
dressing are 11b. shellac, 1-gallon methylated
spirit, 2oz. lampblack, 2oz. powdered emery and
2oz. utk marine blue. Dissolve the shellac in
the spirit. Place the lampblack, emery and
ultramarine on a cheesecloth strainer and pour
on part of the shellac solution, stirring con-
stantly and gradually adding the solution until
all the powders have passed through the strainer.
Stir well and use quickly.
* * * *
(1) What Australian boxing championships did
Dave Smith win? (2) Is Smith still living?
Smith won Australasian amateur heavyweight
championship in 1908 and professional heavy-
weight championship of Australia in 1913.
Smith retired as champion in 1914, but returned
to ring in 1917, when he again won the heavy-
weight title, after which he retired for all time.
(2) He died at Mosman (N.S.W.) on May 29,
1945.
* * * *
How to oxidise copper?
Copper can be oxidised or colored to various
shades from light brown to black by dipping it
in a solution made by dissolving ioz. of potas-
sium sulphide in one gallon of boiling water
and then adding a spoonful of ammonia. A
green color can be obtained by dipping in a
mixture containing loz. of sal. ammoniac,
of common salt and one quart of water. The
metal is left in the solution for about an hour,
removed and dried, the process being repeated
until the required effect is achieved.
* * * *
From whom did Jackie Paterson win the
world’s flyweight championship? Also who did
Gus Lesnevich and Tony Zale beat for the
light-heavy and middleweight titles?
Paterson gained international recognition as
flyweight champion when he knocked out Peter
Kane in the first round at Glasgow on June 10,
1943. Lesnevich won light-heavyweight title by
outpointing Tami Mauriello (15 rounds) in New
York on August 26, 1941, and Zale established
himself as middleweight champion when he out-
pointed Georgie Abrams (15 rounds) in New
York on November 28, 1941.
Brief Answers.
M.M.; There is no such law in Australia
R.8.H.: Write Society of Genealogists, Chaucer
House, Malet-place, London, W.C.I J.C.:
Need to know the voltage of the generator
before we can answer your question S.S.:
See recent issues of The Statesman’s Year Book
and Whitaker’s Almanack... .C. F.McD.; (1)
There is no general award of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court covering rural workers.
The following prints are available at the prices
stated: Pastoral Industry Award (7s. lid.),
Dairying Industry Award (5d.), Harvest Workers’
Award (6d.) and Fruit Growing Award (2s. 6d.).
(2) The conditions of any employment which
does not fall within the scope of these awards
would not be regulated by any award of the
Court but would be a matter for private con-
tract. .. .C-M-C.; Question too vague. Furnish
full details... .W.L.S.: Acoustics of Buildings,
by F. R. Watson (215.) and Acoustics for Archi-
tects, by E. G. Richardson (9s. 6d.), obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney C.P.:
Curtis Brown, Ltd., 347 Madison-avenue;
Hughes Massie and Co., 40 East 49th-street;
Paul R. Reynolds and Son, 599 Fifth-avenue;
Brandt and Brandt, 101 Park-avenue —all New
York R.N.: Verse begining “I’m sick of fog
and yellow gloom” is entitled “Homesick”
and was written by Dorothea Frances McCrae.
It will b - e found in the anthology The Wide
Brown Land, edited by Joan S. and George
Mackaness L.S.L.: Origin of the term “hat-
trick” in cricket is uncertain; there are many
versions. Generally the bowler who got three
wickets with successive balls was presented with
a hat or some memento; nowadays the ball is
mounted and handed to the bowler inscribed
with date and place E.W.: Write Mines
Dept., Brisbane M.T.T.: Tattooing is seldom
associated with plastic surgery. In Australia
skin-grafting is usually preferred. American
schools have advanced the tattoo theory in
beauty culture R.McM.: The so-called “gold
cure” for chronic alcoholism has not been
largely exploited in Australia. Stanford Park
suggests hypodermic colloidal gold injections in
alcoholic neurasthenia, morphine habit and
the like, with bitter tonics and digestives by
mouth. Meanwhile hospital supervision is re-
quired. See local doctor... .A.A.: Get in touch
with Tung Oil Mills Pty., Ltd., Gardiners-road,
Mascot (N.S.W.), who have extracted sunflower-
seed oil in the past... .A.J.G.: Solicitor's
charges are very reasonable. He was entitled
to a scale fee of £4 4s. for the transfer and
has only charged £1 Is. for two applications for
the Treasurer’s consent. You would have no
hope of getting them cut down M.W.: On
the facts stated it would appear that you could
give notice to quit on either or both of the fol-
lowing grounds permitted by the regulations:
58 (5) (c) “That the lessee has failed to take
reasonable care of the premises, or of any goods
leased therewith, or has committed waste,” or
(d) “That the lessee has been guilty of conduct
which is a nuisance or annoyance to adjoining
or neighboring occupiers” (which includes the
landlord) M.R.: On facts stated B is not
entitled to commission.. . .C.L.B. : No,


Missing Friends.
Re GEORGE KENT SMITH (otherwise known as
George Kent) Deceased.—WlLL any Solicitor or
other person having possession of or knowledge of the
existence of a Will or other papers of the abovenamed
GEORGE KENT SMITH (otherwise known as George
Kent), formerly of 112 Nightingale Lane, Wands-
worth Common, in the County of London, but late of
Gregory Terrace, Brisbane, in the State of Queens-
land, retired gentleman, who died at Glenrowan
Private Hospital in the said State of Queensland
on the 29th November, 1940, please communicate
with the PUBLIC CURATOR of Queensland, Edward
Street, Brisbane.—F. M. ALLSOP, Public Curator.
WOULD EVELYN ISOBEL TIPPING, last heard of
in Christchurch, New Zealand, about 12 years ago,
or any children of the said Evelyn Isobel Tipping,
or anyone knowing of their whereabouts, kindly
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Christchurch, New Zealand ?
HERBERT GEORGE STOCKLEY, or anyone knowing
of him, is asked to communicate with the under-
signed. He was born in London in 1887 and was
apprenticed to the Softgoods Trade in Australia about
1906, and is a beneficiary in his late mother’s
estate.—GOßDON GUMMOW. Solicitor. 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
muui
■ V
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
"Phone BW 1361 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
NEW BOOKS, NEW EDITIONS
SUNDAY AT YABRALtIMLA. By Ethel Anderson. Sunday at Yarralumla
is in the tradition of Ethel Anderson’s earlier poem sequence, Squatter’s
Duck, in that it has all the musical lyricism, the witty directness and the
mastery of technique that distinguished the first publication. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
BEN HALE, THE BUSHRANGER. By Frank Clune. An exciting and absorbing
novel based on the life of Ben Hall, the Bushranger. 10/6 (post. 6d.).
FLYING FOX AND DRIFTING SAND. By Francis Ratcliffe. This is unques-
tionably one of the best books ever done in Australia, and we are proud
to add it to our list. Numerous illustrations. 13/6 (post. 6d.).
ALL THAT SWAGGER. By Miles Franklin. All That Swagger has been
acclaimed by critics as one of the finest Australian novels yet written.
8/6 (post. 6d.).
FREE AND EASY LAND. By Frank Clune. The record of a journey from
Brisbane to Cloncurry, to the Gulf round Cape York, and down the east
coast. Illustrated. 8/6 (post. 6d.).
IN CROCODILE LAND. By lon L. Idriess. This—the latest Idriess—is a tale
of a crocodile-shooting expedition round Australia’s northern coasts. Illus-
trated. 8/6 (post. 6d.).
BEHIND BAMBOO. By Rohan Rivett. The grim and splendid story of the
Australian prisoners of Japan is simply and forcibly told by Rohan Rivett,
himself a prisoner for three and a half years. Illustrated. 12/6 (post. 6d.).
AVAILABLE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
MA 6511.
ẃ
or why be ill?
"" With good health a long life fill.
Why have colds or coughs or ’flu?
I will whisper words to you.
Take the best khown thing —the sure,
Certain Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Of life’s nectar take your fill,
Dissipate that passing ill.
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Care,
For Coughs and Colds, never fails.
Blue Gillettes
are tempered
electrically!
s'
ẅ
%
M
Ci.<>
<
o
&
&
o
a
cs
1
SI
‘‘Good Mor *
begin tvith Gillette
3 Vi 11 V IV N 31 Ana
: ■ .... . .;.X'.
68/397
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany . MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
A.M.L.: Your poem to Peggy bumps on
one leggy G.D.: “Having little else to do
at night I have turned my hand to poetry.”
Take up plumbing H.J.8.: You really cant
rhyme “measles” with “tintinnabulation’’
V.M.: “Roll up, bowl up, tumble up and sing.”
Roll out, bowl out, tumble out and sing some-
where else... .G.Z.: Take “The Pet” to the
R.S.P.C.A. and put it out of its misery
Auntie P.: No, Auntie Y.M.: Paterson and
water F.E.L.: “He looked at me with such
a peculiar expression, as if I gave him a sink-
ing feeling.” You’d better stop reading him
your stories S.S.: No use for free verse
H.D.: If it’s a magpie why call it a “feathered
minstrel”? R.McG.: Thin and tinny
U. 8.; Read some of this century’s poetry
J.O’L.: No sting in “The Bee” A.N.S.:
“This is my first attempt.” Yes, but what at?
W.P.D.: Laborious Anne Onnymus:
A harmless trifle... X.D. (London): Off our
beat M.R.:,Come in and get it off your
chest: —
....W.E.: “A rattling good story,” declares
your friend. We were also shaken by it....
Kek: Forwarding peanuts:—
Coriolanus: Rhymes ragged, metre rocky,
thought hackneyed, handwriting fearful; other-
wise it’s quite as good as your friends told you.
B.W.E.: Drought’s out D.A.F.: The
point, if any, is invisible W.Y.: Write about
what you’ve seen and forget about reforming
the universe T.T.: The Religious Editor gave
one fearful howl and dashed off reading the
poem W.D.: “The Swimmer’’ sank three
times in the first stanza J. 8.: Polish and
condense... .E. 8.; Wordy Old Bung: She
went bung P.S. : A small poem for a large
bird..,.E.H. and J.O’G.: You move us to
tears... .L.N.S.: “The Mountaineer” has too
much paunch. Slim him down and try again....
J.H.: “The Eighteenth” rather a tall story....
P.G.; Verses dull and meaningless R.N.:
Your story far too long. And double-space
your typing to allow for sub-editing
C.0.L.; Verses nearly bad enough to see print
in this column A.G.: Article on chirography
appreciated, but not suitable for this paper,
P.A.L.; You say you are a butcher and you
like verse-writing. The butchering will give us
more satisfaction P.H.L.: We paid extra
postage for an air-mail return T.X.0.: No
compensation for “The Fire at Simpson’s
Farm” M.T.: Burn it G.L.: Cut down
it would make a good par.... .S.F.: Also
padded out of shape C.K.: Study your
market and please cease sending us epics like
“Love Me, Oh Please!”... .C.R.: Appeared
to have been written under water in bad light
and then been wrapped for some days around
a roll of garbage. You should not have re-
trieved it from the tin....Y.H.: Nowhere near
your best R. 0.: It is old advice, but try
knocking off your opening paragraphs. Very
often, as in your case, they merely give the
author’s mental processes in getting on to his
theme C.M.: All right, since there are only
seven words:
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Q.P.: Failed to identify the animal your
stockman is riding. Zoo authorities could not
help us Oss: Don’t use indelible pencil on
thin paper. Gags may be used Zipper: Put
some clothes on the girls. They are all humps
and angles.., .S.X.: Bush people do not wear
tweed caps in this country E.V.S.: Take
those atrocities away and bury them L.F.:
No market for lopsided dwarfs... .W.J.: Jest
was born about the dawn of this century
E.M.S.: They are merely fashion-plates
K. 8.: The drunk is an old friend F.R.:
Same old plumber and same young woman in the
bath T.M.: Your swagmen are sleeping it
off in the basket TJ.K.: From what over-
seas periodical was that gag lifted? J.G.:
Conversation between cross-eyed charlady and
bandy-legged window-cleaner too tame for pub-
lication.
The guile of Machiavelli,
The wealth of Tamerlane,
The boldness of Ned Kelly,
The ruthlessness of Cain,
The magic of Houdini,
The strength of Hackenschmidt,
The art of Paganini,
The fluency of Pitt,
The cheek of Tommy Trinder,
The nerve of William Tell,
The poetry of Pindar,
The influence of McKell,
The mind of Aristotle,
The charm of Danny Kaye—
All these for just ONE bottle
Of beer to take away!
My friends when admonishing me.
For my garb of a peeved chimpanzee.
Are quite apt to forget
The queer birds that I’ve met,
As I hang by ray tail in a tree.
My hat,
Wombat,
Your rump
Is plump.


MY CATTLE
By
HERBERT DAIRSON
n M Y cattle, Mr. Ralston?” The
lyl drover turned his horse, edging
I ~ \ it towards the gap in the
boundary fence through which
the last of a mob of eight hundred and
forty-odd fat Shorthorn bullocks were
suspiciously passing.
“All yours, Ben. Eight forty-two, she
is.” The manager leant over in the saddle,
shook Ben’s hand, “Good trip. Wire
me when you truck.”
“Right.” Ben was laconic, dark eyes
straying to the cattle, to the black pack-
horse, the neat toes of his kangaroo-hide
boots tensing a little in the stirrup-irons:
not impatient, actually, but ready to
move. His dark-brown eyes returned,
smiled calmly at the manager. “No
trouble at all, this lot. And a season like
this —good water, lashings of grass—a
kid could do it.”
KEN CLELLAND, aged 16, poised
respectfully in the background on
his bay mare, burned with hero-worship,
his wide eyes taking in every detail of
Ben’s gracefully slight, saddle-easy figure,
his swarthy, black-moustached face. Ken
would have cheerfully bargained away
half his future life to be Ben Davidson,
great cattleman, great horseman, great
drover. The casualness, too, of his hero
lightly dismissing the job of taking a big
mob over scrubby, almost trackless dis-
tances —by courtesy called stock routes:
the many anxious days before they would
come to fenced roads and lanes.
But was Ben ever anxious, really? Ken
doubted it. To him Ben was always
Ogilvie’s “the man that steadies the lead.”
The man “with the coils of his whip lying
idle, his eyes on the mob at his side and
the daintiest touch on the bridle”...
And so on, through as many bush ballads
of the heroic school as Ken was familiar
with.
A real hero, Ben.
He rode up the wing, the coils of his
whip hanging over his thigh, his bridle-
rein lightly hooked over his left thumb
and his keen dark glance ranging over
the roans, whites, reds and spotted cattle
as they strolled along through the hop-
bush and sandalwood snatching a mouth-
ful of scrub-grass or a leaf of prickly
pear ; leaning a horn against a sapling or
bough to bring down a spray of foliage
to add variety to the morning meal;
leaving behind them the scent no bush-
man ever forgets—the scent of warm,
bovine bodies, bruised grasses and fresh
dung ; the scent of travelling cattle.
Having helped Ralston put up the
boundary rails, Ken mounted his horse
and looked back at the vanishing mob.
Ben, up along the wing, was quietly turn-
ing in a bullock that was walking a bit
wide of the mob—a small, pretty, square-
built strawberry with beautifully-shaped
“cock” horns, black at the tips.
Ken remembered him: he had taken
his eyes before. Not the best-bred beast
in the mob by any means —he had a
touch of Hereford in him —but he was
neat and well balanced, and his horns
were beautiful.
The sun, just peeping through the trees,
shone on their curves now as he turned
with quickened steps towards his mates;
shone, too, on the glistening coils of the
whip gently shaken at him by the Boss
Drover. They made a picture before they
vanished in the hop-bush scrub, Ken
thought.
‘‘\A Y cattle! ” How possessive that
AY 1 expression! Ken was to learn that
this was a formula always used by Ben.
And, indeed, it was something more than
a formula.
Ben was quite aware of his qualified
property in cattle while they travelled in
his care, and knew just how far it went.
And he was jealous of his Tights. From
the moment that he lifted a mob to the
moment he delivered it they were his
cattle. And he was proud of his reputa-
tion. To deliver them at their destination
on time with a minimum of loss and in
good condition was his object—one he
very seldom failed to achieve.
It must be great taking away a mob of
bullocks like that, Ken thought, glancing
back over his shoulder as his mare, fol-
lowing Ralston’s horse, turned in the
direction of the homestead.
But the hop-bush and sandalwood
boughs had closed behind the tail of the
mob. Only the murmuring of travelling
cattle told they were moving down over
the watershed ; down along some insig-
nificant scrub-tangled gutter that would
become a sand-bedded gully.
He could see it all; the gully, where the
big hooves of heavy bullocks, turning up
damp sand beneath the powdery, dry
surface, released cool earth-odors to blend
with the heavy scent of pollen-burdened
golden blossoms that powdered roan, red
and white hides as the bullocks pushed
their way through low-flung wattle
boughs, with sun-dappled bloodwood and
gum crests above. The gully, leading
miles further on into a wide, sandy creek,
with apple-tree flats flanking its winding
course; with its occasional waterholes
in the bends where wood-ducks would'
fly off ahead of the leading bullocks, the
white of their wings flickering away into
the gloom of the tree shadows down-
stream.
Down the creek, following cattle-pads
over hard pine- and ironbark-clad ridges
to cut off horseshoe bends, and finally
Down River —that magic phrase that con-
jured up pictures of a broad-flowing
stream below steep oak- and gum-fringed
banks, and the great stock route through
blue-grassed coolabah flats and crossed
box and ironbark spurs and the big reedy
swamps.
He had never been Down River, but
he had listened greedily to the conversa-
tion of drovers and stockmen, and he
knew the names of many of the camps
and the features of the route. He could
picture them all: Bradley’s Yards, Curlew
Flat, Black Bullock Gully, Campbell’s
Crossing, Dick’s Camp ~.
THE next year when Ben Davidson
lifted the Emu Downs bullocks Ken
went with him. He felt a new importance
as he slammed in the boundary rails: he
was going droving—Down River at last.
Every mile of the trip was a delight to
him. He compared the camps and the
crossings of the river with his precon-
ceived ideas of them. He watched Ben
and emulated him with almost religious
fervor. He secretly hoped the bullocks
would rush some night. He yearned for
that wild experience above all things.
When it came it came suddenly, and it
frightened him. The stage had been a
long one that day and the weather hot.
The cattle, despite Ben’s nursing of them,
were tired when they reach camp, a
sandy flat above a bend of the river
where the banks were steep. Before dark-
ness had fallen the bullocks were all
lyipg down.
Ken, who was on first watch with Yel-
low Jack, the half-caste, remarked that
they should have no trouble keeping the
cattle on the camp.
“Dunno! ” said Jack. “They tired, and
tired cattle rush. Go fast asleep and
plurry possum scratch bark running up
tree. Then you see!”
It seemed unlikely, Ken thought. The
cattle were so peaceful—just an occa-
sional heavy sigh coming from the
shadowy mass in the gloom under the trees.
He sang and whistled as he rode his
horse backwards and forwards along his
side of the camp. When he reached the
steep river bank, he paused for a few
moments to listen to the ducks feeding
and playing in the water down in the
pitch darkness below before turning to
ride back to the point where Jack would
meet him.
He could hear, as he paused in his sing-
ing, the half-caste’s rendering of Swanee
River on a box-leaf, drifting across the
sleeping camp. And so on and on, while
time slipped away with the eternal march
of the stars across the sky.
At last Ken noticed a faint paling of
the sky towards the east. The moon must
be coming up. He was feeling sleepy
now. For a while a feeling of excitement
had kept him wide awake and half ex-
pectant. Jack, on one occasion when they
met on their beat, in response to Ken’s
repeated inquiry as to the prospects of
a rush, had said “Well, Boss must think
so. Didn’t you see him saddle Flash Tony
an’ tie ’im up along the night-horse?”
But the moon would soon be up uuw,
and then, even if they did rush, being
able fo see about them, they might not
rush properly . . . Ken yawned.
A stick cracked somewhere in the
middle of the sleeping bullocks. Then a
wild flurry of sound that he never could
properly set in order in his mind; a
rolling thunder of hooves, and faintly
above the turmoil he could hear Jack’s
“Whoa, boys! Whoa, boys!”
He realised that his mare, a smart little
chestnut, was racing under him, and that
great bodies were hurtling along in the
darkness beside him in a torrent of sound
and movement. Sticks cracked like rifle
fire; sandalwood boughs whipped and
tore at his head and hands, and the leafy
tops of saplings thrashed madly in the
terrible flood in front and beside him. On
one side only. The little mare must have
seen to that herself.
He breathed his thanks. The glow of
the camp-fire flitted past, and the mare
left the ground in a long, reaching leap,
'"THE black gulf of a broken gully slid
\ away below her as Ken held his
breath. Landing safely she sped on,
apparently hanging on to the flank of the
flying mob, Ken left the job to her. He
knew she was one of Ben’s best night-
horses, an old hand that could be trusted.
Fear was giving place to a wild ex-
citement now. He did not know if he
was doing the right thing, but he felt
that if he kept on the wing until they
tired, he should be able to swing and
hold the leaders eventually—if he did not
get knocked off. His blood chilled again—
to go down so near to the van of the mob!
Through a belt of box saplings, the
swishing of their leaves like surf on a
beach, and out on to a little plain, rend-
ered dimly visible by the moon now peep-
ing over the tree-line —a black wall of
brigalow scrub two hundred yards ahead.
“Swing ’em in! Swing ’em in! ” yelled
a voice behind him. Ben! Confidence
surged up in Ken at once, and he jammed
hard up on the racing bullocks, yelling
like fury until he managed to turn the
point of the lead a little, but the briga-
low loomed up suddenly in front. He
tugged at the reins, and a horse and rider
flashed past him. “Come on! Back me
up, and swing ’em!”
In the half-light of the rising moon
Ken again gave the mare her head and
pulled in behind Ben’s flying mount;
swerving—with a kind of rapid wriggle
the black horse went —into the brigalow
and wilga scrub, the mare gallantly kept
to his tail.
A mad ride. Stooping, and swinging
in his saddle under low wilga boughs,
twisting through the close-grown trunks
of the brigalow at a pace that caught his
breath and dimmed his vision, his con-
fidence in the man ahead of him was
such that he made no attempt to check
or guide the mare. He knew she would
follow Flash Tony’s movements exactly,
and he had the task, besides looking after
himself, of preventing any cattle break-
ing through behind Ben, who had to
catch and swing the leading bullocks.
Ken knew he would succeed. To him
Ben was above failure. And then they
were closing on the leaders now and
gradually swinging them where the briga-
lows stood less thickly.
The mare was flying, but a length
ahead the iwo white hind feet of Flash
Tony flickered on through the gloom like
startled white rabbits. Through the boy’s
head flashed a bit of advice Ben had
given him the previous day: “Always
ride steadily until you have got to ride
fast, and then ride fast.”
The rush slowed down —it could not
have continued long at that pace—and
they broke through to another plain, with
Flash Tony turning the leaders in, his
rider’s soothing “Wurp! Wurp!” reduc-
ing the panic of the mob. The bullocks,
their pace reduced to a trot, commenced
to ring on the plain, and the moonlight
bursting clear of the brigalows gleamed
in dancing flickers on the polished curves
of agitated white horns, as the bullocks
swung round and round in a churning
circle, the smell of their hot bodies hang-
ing heavy on the still night air.
SLOWER and slower, until their
movement was merely a tired shuffl-
ing. And now they lifted their voices in a
chorus of bellowing—separated mates
calling to one another. The rush was
over. But it could be repeated later in
the night, as Ben well knew. The cattle
would be nervy for some time.
When Yellow Jack and one of the
other men brought a few stragglers in and
the cattle, cooled down, were being
quietly moved back to their camp, Ben
rode up to Ken. “Good work! We’ll
make a drover out of you yet, Ken.”
Ken glowed.
There were many more trips with Ben
Davidson, and more rushes. Ken was
taught by the great drover how to avoid
“ringing” when swimming a mob; how
to manage dry stages, and all the other
things a good drover must know.
Two wars passed over Ken’s life. Middle
age arrived and was passing. For him
Ben Davidson and the droving days lived
only in memory. His calling as a country
traveller took him through the bush a
good deal, but by car. He had long
since forsaken the saddle.
One day, surrendering to an impulse
born of his not infrequent nostalgia for
the cattle country, he pulled in to the
side of a saleyard where a cattle sale
had apparently just ended. Buyers were
settling for their purchases; cattle were
being delivered by the agents.
An old man, thin and wiry with white
hair and moustache, on a good sort of
old horse, a blue cattle dog at heel, was
steadying ten or twelve head of common,
dairy-bred stock out of a small yard.
Plain-looking cows with big-bellied calves
and a hard, short-haire4 bull.
Ken thought idly that they did not
look the sort of cattle that the old chap
had probably been used to. He watched
him, left thumb lightly hooked in the
end of the bridle reins, shake his shining,
coiled stockwhip to turn the bull on to
the road behind the cows and calves;
heard him as he spoke to the agent.
“\AY cattle, Boss?”
IVI “Your cattle, Ben,” the agent
replied, and turned to another yard.
Ken stared at the wiry old figure on
the good-looking bay horse following
the insignificant little m«b down the road,
and, turning, asked a group of men near-
by “Who’s that old chap?”
“Oh, that’s old Ben Davidson,” one
man said with a laugh. “Bit of a hatter.
He does a little quart-pot droving from
the yards here. They say he used to be
a corking good drover in the old days
- “Yes, too right he was,” Ken replied
“The best ever.”
He swung round towards his car, un-
mindful of the surprised looks behind
him, hesitated, and turned round to stand
gazing after the drover and his pathetic
little mob.
No, he reflected, better not. It might
not be a kindness, and, anyway, neither
of them belonged to Ben’s real world.
The dust drifted away behind the horse-
man and the plodding beasts ahead of
him, but through the haze of it Ken was
seeing a splendid, lithe figure on a smart
stockhorse, swinging the shining coils of
a stockwhip at a pretty strawberry bul-
lock to turn him into a big mob of fat
bullocks—reds, roans, spotted, fading
away into a mist of hop-bush and sandal-
wood on their way Down River.
The Lightship.
She is more feared than the toothed reef
she guards —
That lightship riding in the empty waste
Of the Gulf seas, with all her rigging and
yards
Frosted by salt and gulls, white on the
sky —
The blue-black sky of the monsoonal
storm.
Hail her, you hear no living tongue reply ,
A ship without a heart, her warning bell
Rings hollow across the water as she rolls,
Rising and falling on the oily swell.
All through the night her yellow shaft
will stream
Over black, sliding waves; and it is well
No hand is needed, now, to tend that beam.
Hers is the knell that sounds above the
grave ;
Hers the lamp shining clear within the
tomb:
One after one, good seamen, skilled and
brave,
Went mad there, listening for a human call,
Stared till their brains burnt out in the
water’s blaze.
The searchers found no trace of them
at all.
The storm-wind rises; louder the bell
tolls —
Lord God, how lonely is man on this
dark sea !
Have mercy on us, and on all drowned
men’s souls.
N.S.W.
NAN McDONALD


V*
/
zm
Wm
. , tei9 ht Offices «*
i«iW“ •"*“'" ~
err-i—• •■
reverse side. , fw IRA NS-Afi STRA ' -,A Al * U> *'
TAA.^rio6oo
AUSTRAUAH NATtOHAt
' • ..£ ,
COMMWKPH
NO DEPOSIT
wifh this
AIR TRAVIL/IREICHT
CREDIT CARD
Business men will find TAA’s new
AIR TRAVEL / FREIGHT CREDIT
CARD unequalled for convenience
and utility. Amongst other unique
features, it gives cardholders imme-
diate credit at any TAA Booking or
Freight Office, for air travel or the
despatch of air freight.
★No deposit required to obtain Air Travel/Freight
Credit Cards.
★As many Air Travel/Freight Credit Cards as you
require.
if Credit immediately available for air freight as well
as personal air travel.
RING THE TAA BOOKING OFFICE for a representative to call.
SYDNEY, B 0526 . . MELBOURNE, MU 6751 . . BRISBANE, B 1341 . . ADELAIDE, Ceßt. 754 S
PERTH, B 2453 . . HOBART, 7411 . . LAUNCESTON, 2061 . , CANBERRA, FfjNS
A MIXED GRILL
“Exkewex”: Old Sydney! In my time
every barber’s had photos of Slavin,
Peter Jackson and Fitzsimmons; and
Sydney has never had three finer
boxers of their weight. There were also
pictures of Carbine—unlike present-day
pictures of racehorses, unsullied by ad-
vertisements for somebody’s cigarettes
which you caq’t buy. And Frank Me-
Grath can tell you that Australia never
had a greater horse.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: If Bland Holt was “always
in trouble when he raced horses on the
stage” (B. 12/3/’47) he was not the only
one. We were playing “The Flying Scud”
on the west coast of M.L.: the great
moment of the show was when the Derby
winner was brought on the stage after
scoring its win. It was sometimes diffi-
cult to get a horse that would face the
footlights: at Westport all we could secure
was an old also-ran, Seabreeze, which
habitually carried 6st. 71b. and never gave
the handicapper cause to lift its weight,
The “house” had been well worked up by
the description of the race as given by
the crowd on the stage, and it was ready
to burst into applause when the great
Flying Scud was brought on. But the
applause failed to comb. Directly the
horse appeared one great, devastating
whisper seemed to sweep right round the
big Victoria Theatre. “Seabreeze!” it
said.
“Bug Eyes”: Though the N.S.W. State
Government is being jeered at for its
Eastern Suburbs Railway Bill, most
people being convinced that work on the
thing won’t begin for at least a genera-
tion, I’m not sure that it hasn’t shown
foresight. There is already a diminution
Q f the number of public hole-sinkings
being performed in the city, which in-
tensities both the lunch-hour and casual
crowds of sightseers who gather for such
elevating and educational spectacles, and
if it were not for the coves now doing
their stuff on the Quay railway and a
bunch of ex-Diggers tearing Erskine-
street to pieces, there’d be really nothing
to see. The odd times that a manhole
cover is lifted is becoming a public
scandal and candidates seeking metro-
politan seats would be wise to include a
promise of more activity along these
lines in their election speeches. Another
aspect that needs attention is the effect
of the prevalent “no work between meals”
policy of our Communist rulers. Fre-
quently of late I have received notice of
some public hole-digging or street-
tearing, got to the spot early in order
to obtain a ringside stand, only to find
that the performers adopt various atti-
tudes of ease from which they, in turn,
watch the watchers. I suppose this
comes of encouraging amateurs. All the
same, to remove them to some suburban
railway job during the current shortage
of labor would seriously inconvenience
people like myself, and no Government
can afford to attack an inalienable right
without due consideration to its effect at
the ballot-box.
* * * *
“Uco”: Don't know who first called
a spud a spud ; but in Creca’s Cronica de
Peru, published in Seville in 1553, it
is mentioned under the name “battata”
or “papa.” The former is near enough
to potato for me. The tuber originated
in South America, and, although Raleigh
is usually credited with introducing it
to England from Virginia, best evidence
suggests that it was unknown in that
colony until a century after Raleigh’s
time. Hawkins and Drake also have their
supporters as the pioneer of the spud —at
Offenburg in Germany there is a monu-
ment to Drake, honoring him as the
“introducer of the potato into Europe in
the year of our Lord 1580” —but the credit
most likely belongs to the Spaniards.
* * * *
“Re-Tread”: In Burma the Nips,
anxious to keep their army of navvies up
to full strength, ordered vaccinations and
inoculations ad lib. Accorcfing to our
own medical authorities the serum in
every case almost was quite useless, either
because of becoming stale or because it
was originally “ersatz.” We were inocu-
lated for smallpox, typhoid, cholera,
bubonic plague, several times for each
disease. And those needles! Once the
whisper got around that there was a
needling in the picture there was a wild
stampede to get first in the line, as one
very inferior needle had to do a devil of
a lot of very tough-skinned blokes, and
no matter how blunt it became there was
no hope of replacing it. Some of our
patient M.Os. used to look thoroughly
worn out by the time the line-up was
finished. Most of us had our own par-
ticular nightmare among the horrible
diseases that threatened. Mine was bu-
bonic plague. Someone had told me that
source of infection was a flea, which left
the rat it had lived on immediately the
host expired; if you were unfortunate
enough to be near the rat at the fatal
moment you were a goner. However, at
Nekompaton, in Thailand, a new horror
made its appearance. A Dutch prisoner
was suffering from leprosy, and a young
Javanese developed the loathsome disease.
Next morning we were all paraded naked
before the Dutch medical colonel to be
examined for symptoms of leprosy. Even
after all the ordeals we had been through,
it was a bad moment for most of us, and a
great mental relief to get the “all clear.”
* * * *
“D.”: On the rare occasions when
tobacconists in my city have cigarettes
or tobacco to sell they seem unwilling
simply to hand over the smokes in ex-
change for money. Even if it is only a
packet of 10, it must first be wrapped
in a piece of brown paper or placed in a
paper bag. Some even tie the wrapping
with string. lam interested in the psy-
chological cause of this ritual. Is it fear
that a packet of fags carried openly may
provoke civil disorder, or is it shame at
weakening after so many refusals?


WEUff’;
blotchy'
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder., sjj
DAILY IRREGULARITY
Don't Wait Too Long For Action
If you suffer from nausea, biliousness, headache or other
symptoms of daily irregularity or, in other words, constipation,
do something positive about it now. Delay may aggravate
the symptoms. To-night, take Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
the gentle-acting vegetable laxative. This household remedy
usually relieves constipation quickly and thoroughly, without
griping or unpleasant after-effects. Get an economical bottle of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills and keep handy.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter.
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S.-SOVIET DISARMAMENT REVERSALS.
Well enough known that the main point
of difference between the U.S. and Soviet
stands on atomic and other disarmament
is that the U.S. insists on complete in-
ternational inspection to guard against
violations and Russia will not have in-
spection at any price.
Not so well remembered, perhaps, that
this represents a complete reversal by
both parties from the stand each took
on disarmament moves in the 1920’5.
What the reversal signifies for America
is clear enough—the vast extent of the
advance from isolationism towards inter-
nationalism. What it signifies for Russia
might be fairly accurately deduced from
the facts, which are here extracted from
a historical survey of disarmament
attempts written by Allen W. Dulles for
the American quarterly “Foreign Affairs.”
For years prior to 1933 the U.S. stand
was one of strong opposition to inspec-
tion on the various national territories.
The official U,S. position as stated to the
Preparatory Disarmament Commission
in September, 1926, was;
The American delegation has opposed the
proposition to establish supervision and
control of national armaments by an inter-
national agency, since it has felt that any
limitation agreements must rest primarily
upon international good faith and respect
of treaties.
How completely American outlook has
changed since then has been shown by
the plan for complete inspection of all
countries by the international authority
that would be set up to control and
supervise development of atomic energy,
and by authoritative American comment
thereon. Such complete inspection, de-
clared Senator Vandenberg, chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
is the U.S. price for sharing its atom
secrets and destroying its stock of atom
bombs, “and the price must be paid;
we shall not trust alone to fickle words,”
Also, Bernard M. Baruch, largely re-
sponsible for the U.S. plan, commented;
“Previous failures have been recorded
in trying the method of simple renuncia-
tion, unsupported by effective guarantees
of security and armament liqiitation. No
one would have faith in that approach
alone.”
Reversal could not be more complete;
and the same is exactly true of the
directly opposite Soviet change.
In practically all the discussions that
went on during the 1920’s Russia, mainly
represented by Litvinov, took precisely
the same stand that is now taken by
America. A Soviet proposal submitted
to the Geneva Preparatory Commission
in November, 1927, went the limit. All
armed forces were to be abolished, as
well as war, navy and air Ministries;
military budgets were to be outlawed;
scientific research in armaments was to
be forbidden ; this programme to be con-
trolled by a “permanent international
commission, with local commissions of
control in every contracting State.” The
decisions of the control commission were
to be by majority vote and were to be
binding on all countries.
When, recalls Dulles, the Soviet Dele-
gation saw that proposals for total dis-
armament were not likely to be success-
ful, they submitted a programme for pro-
portionate reduction, going up to 50 per
cent, for the heavily-armed States and so
on down a graduated scale for the rest,
with control measures no less rigid than
those that had been proposed for the
total disarmament scheme. One clause
of the Soviet proposal read:
With a view to ensuring genuine control,
the Permanent International Commission of
Control shall be entitled to carry out in-
vestigations on the spot in the event of
reasonable suspicion of a breach of the
present Convention and of the subsequent
supplementary Agreements on the reduction
and limitation of armaments, and to appoint
for this" purpose special commissions of
inquiry.
Looking into the motive for the Soviet
stand of those days, Dulles sees the
advocacy of disarmament and control as
according with the general Communist
ideology of that time: “According to
Lenin, the modem State was an instru-
ment of the capitalist class, and the
organs of that State existed to maintain
the capitalist class. The future Socialist
State, according to Lenin, would need
no armies, navies or similar State organs,
which existed only to suppress the pro-
letariat.” ,
With so complete a change of the
Soviet position it would seem that “sup-
pressing the pro-
letariat” in Russia
has meanwhile be-
come accepted
Communist ideo-
logy.
Leaving motive
and inference out
of it, the facts of
the two extreme re-
versals are as
stated, with pos-
sibly the grand
finale enacted in the
Security Council a
few weeks back,
when Soviet dele-
g a t e Gromyko
savagely attacked
the American con-
trol - and-inspection
plan as based on
“vicious premises”
and U.S. delegate
Austin retorted, re-
garding the Russian
proposals: “They
do not provide for
a n international
system of control
at all. They pro-
vide for a system
which at best
would give no
security and at
worst would be a
constant incentive
to distrust and
war.”
Commenting on the Gromyko state-
ment of Soviet policy N.Y. “Times” on
March 7 stated editorially that it meant
“complete Russian rejection of all the
work done on atomic energy control”:
Russia rejects the whole idea of an in-
ternational Atomic Development Authority
monopolising ownership, operation, control,
inspection and research in the atomic field,
on the ground that this would constitute
a “peculiar international trust” which Would
interfere in the economic life of the other
countries and violate their sovereignty. In
other words, “socialistic” Russia rejects
what amounts to an experiment in inter-
national socialism proposed by a capitalistic
United States in the name of peace.
“The new Russian stand,” N.Y.
“Times” further commented, “raises the
question whether Russia wants any
atomic agreement at all. Until it is clear
that she does, the American answer can
only be to stand on our own plan and
safeguard what we have.”
Two other important .facts help in
an interpretation of the changed Soviet
position. One is that the Soviet opposi-
tion to inspection is maintained despite
the fact that Russia was, of course,
represented on the scientific committee of
12 countries which unanimously reported
to the Atomic Energy Commission on
the dangers that would exist “unless ade-
quate safeguards were established against
the use of atomic energy for destructive
purposes.” There will be no question.
if general atom war comes, of where
the criminal responsibility lies.
The other striking fact is that in the
pre-war disarmament moves the U.S. had
already by 1933 come round to the posi-
tion of accepting the principle of inspec-
tion, and it was only Hitler’s Germany
that would not hgar of controlled dis-
armament.
JAP TRIAL APATHY.
For every yard of cable-column space
that was given to the Nuremberg trial
there has been something less than an
inch for the Tokyo trial of Tojo and the
25 other leading Japs accused as war
criminals. That is almost as true of
British and, more remarkably, American
reporting as it is of Australian.
The Tokyo trial has now dragged on
for about 11 months. The prosecution
closed at the end of January; several
more months may be occupied with the
defence and closing proceedings.
Explaining the length of the trial,
Washington “Post” has pointed out the
—Richmond (U.S.A.) “Times-Dispatch.”
ATOMIC RADIATION.
“colossal handicap” of language differ-
ences : “Not only is it a matter of getting
Japanese translated into English and vice
versa. In many instances German docu-
ments have been used, necessitating three-
way translations. And, of course, further
complications are encountered when
Russian, Chinese or Dutch witnesses or
documents are employed”;
One other complicating factor of great
importance has been the paucity of docu-
ments taken in Japan. In Germany the
investigators collected many tons of the
most damning records made and preserved
by the Nazis themselves. The Japanese war
criminals were more foresighted. Most of ■
their incriminating records have been de-
stroyed, thus making it necessary for the
investigators to build their case out of
fragmentary evidence gathered from many
sources. Fortunately, the Nazis’ files yielded
an abundance of evidence tying the Japa-
nese adventure in aggression very closely
to that of Hitler. These documents became
the basis for examination of numerous
Japanese war criminals. Confronted by
written evidence of their conspiracy against
the peace of the world, the defendants have
often been constrained to fill in further
details.
Another big difficulty encountered
would seem to have a very definite bear-
ing on the question of whether “re-
educating” the Japs in the ways of de-
mocracy and all that is more than a
peace-time variety of wishful thinking. It
has come out in the trial that, while many
Japs have been ready enough to talk to
investigators/ in private conversations,
“they frequently reverse their testimony
and deny their affidavits when they get to
the witness stand.” That is, they have not
been prepared publicly to give evidence
against their former masters. It would
seem they have been too long and too
thoroughly thought-conditioned to be
easily changed.
To some extent the slight reporting of
the trial would account for the “curious
apathy” regarding it which has been
noted by N.Y. “Times” as the general
American attitude; applying here also,
and in Britain and elsewhere as well.
Still, the N.Y. “Times” itself has given
comparatively long reports ; yet it has
commented;
The public has not seemed to care what
the testimony revealed, and even the most
authenticated details of treachery and
atrocity have stirred little indignation.
That attitude could hardly have been
forecast when the Jap war was raging and
Jap war methods and treatment of
p.-0.-w were being freely publicised.
Seeking an explanation, N.Y. “Times”
stated:
There seems to be an assumption that the
Pacific war is a mass of bitter waters re-
leased forever from a broken dam. We
seem to assume that Japan is so thoroughly
subdued that she can never again rise as a
menace, that the Japanese people having
forsaken their old gods will never return
to them. That, indeed, is a broad assump-
tion which the evidence at the trial hardly
supports. Our experiment in Japanese de-
mocracy may or may not succeed. Yet
these proceedings at Tokyo should establish
for the entire Orient the same principles
confirmed at the Nuremberg trial. Supple-
mental though they may be, they should
knit into the whole body of human thought
the fact that aggressive war is a criminal
plot against mankind and will be penalised
accordingly. It is a fact we have freely
accepted. It governs our international
policy. But it is a lesson Japan is still
learning.
The simplest, possibly the truest, ex-
planation of the “curious apathy” could
lie in the natural reaction against all
thought of war that follows any war,
intensified in this case by a surfeit of war-
trial publicity. After all, the Tokyo trial
is in most respects a repeat performance
of a drama, all the essential elements of
which are familiar to everybody.
Another explanation might well be
doubt over the original performance of
the drama. That doubt is still the theme
of a great deal of published discussion
overseas. For all the very strong defence
of Nuremberg that has been and goes on
being written, the stubborn feeling per-
sists in many, and keeps on cropping up,
that what it really all boils down to is the
ancient recipe of “woe to the van-
quished.”
PIG FABLE.
Revised version of the Gadarene swine
episode, as related by English humorist
Anthony Armstrong in a London
“Times” letter:
I was talking the other day to a pig of
my acquaintance who seemed to be very
proud of his pedigree. It was descended,
it said, from a very old Gadarene family,
its distant ancestor having been the sole
survivor of a mysterious catastrophe when
the whole herd charged violently down a
steep place into the sea. This particular
pig’s progenitor, however, held different
views from the rest and stopped halfway,
being of the opinion that there was no
future in it. The rest of the herd plunged
onwards, shouting back contemptuously as
they did so, “Reactionary!” A pig on the
extreme left even shouted, “Fascist reac-
tionary ! ”
Everyone to draw his own moral.
That drawn by “Saturday Evening Post”
in quoting Armstrong’s story was:
“Suicide is not necessarily the most con-
structive course, just because the majority
favors it.”
The “Post” also used the story to have
a fling at the value of “public opinion
polls”: “A Gallup Poll among the Gada-
rene swine would have shown 99.4 per
cent, in favor of diving off the cliff into
the ocean.”


What a Trustee should know. ..
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection:
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all , he must have time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
w
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W- Hixson
F. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
N. L. Shaw (Mgr.)
C. N. P. Whittle
(Asst. Mgr.)
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. ITD,
ADDRESS; 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PT.4.6
U/)e “MARS” PLAIN MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
advt
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFC. COY. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers-
Brldge St., Valley, Brisbane.
Licensed Manufacturers in Qld. of
MEEHANITE METALS.
METAR
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VICTORIA — Servian Machine Tools
(Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne. Q’LAND —Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane. W.A. —The
Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA —Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor
Specialties, Ltd., Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road. > BOMBAY
PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East
Aoiafie f!n T.trf
m
; m i
'.V
J.
SOVIET WEAKNESS.
In a widely-held notion of the present
post-war set-up Soviet Russia and the
United States figure as dominant giants
of about equal stature. Britain, it has
become the fashion to suggest, is a mere
third-rater, if it’s that; this despite J.
Bull and Co’s, second-to-none war per-
formance or the fact that J.B. and Co.
among them still appear to hold a pretty
useful strategic position in the world.
While the figure of J.B. is thus being
rather riskily underrated, as would be
demonstrated if it ever came to a show-
down, it can’t be said that that of Uncle
Sam is being exaggerated. On all counts
he is every bit as powerful as he looks,
having, apart from his home strength,
spread out his economic, political and
military bases since 1939 to an extent
that would have brought charges of im-
perialism if done by J.B,
Can it be said that the real strength
of the Bear is also all it is claimed to
be? There may be no need for any war
to provide an answer ; it could well come
out through happenings in Russia and in
the adjoining Soviet-dominated countries
over the next few years. The feast of
U.N.R.R.A. relief —72 per cent, of which
was provided by the U.S., and the huge
total of $1,460,000,000 of which, more
than a third of the whole U.N.R.R.A.
budget, went to Russia and its satellites
■ —is over, and the new U.S. policy of
independently distributing relief “only to
friendly countries that can prove they
need it” is going to be felt a lot more
in those quarters than they may yet real-
ise.
How the change in relief distribution
will affect countries which show (and
most probably those which have shown )
hostility to the U.S. can be inferred from
an “American Mercury” article by Eric
L. Pridonoff, who was economic analyst
to the American Embassy at Belgrade
while the U.N.R.R.A. supplies were pour-
ing into Yugoslavia, Under the heading
“How U.N.R.R.A. Bolstered Tito,” the
writer states that of the huge amount of
U.N.R.R.A, relief sent to Russia and
satellites no less than $400,000,000 worth,
upwards of 3,500,000 tons, went to enable
Tito to establish his control. “There can
be no doubt,” says Pridonoff, “that the
whole of the Yugoslav army and air
force was maintained on our supplies.”
Yugoslavia “received as a gift goods equal
in sales value to several years of its total
pre-war national budget, and to three
years of its gross national income. Yugo-
slavia has thus been saved from com-
plete collapse, despite Soviet depredation,
only by movement of U.N.R.R.A. sup-
plies into the country.”
With those supplies cut off, Tito will
have to turn to Russia, and by all ac-
counts he will get little, or nothing, there.
The U.S. condition for giving relief, that
none will go to “nations judged to be
maintaining unnecessarily large, non-pro-
ductive armies or to be using food as a
political weapon,” hits most directly at
Yugoslavia. The effects will not be evi-
dent for some time, but, since Tito de-
pends on his outsize army and secret
police to keep him in power, those effects
when they evolve are likely to be severe.
They would help to expose the evidently
considerable Soviet internal weakness.
The actual condition of Russia itself
has been hidden behind the “iron cur-
tain,” but most reports coming out agree
that it is very bad. In the March issue
of the U.S. publication “International
Conciliation,” N.Y. State Chamber of
Commerce president Peter Grimm states
in an article headed “Russia Seen from
Within”: “The impoverished condition of
the country, after the destruction and
effort of the war, could not be hidden
from the most casual observer.”
A more detailed report, by “an Ameri-
can expert in international affairs returned
from two years in the Eastern European
region,” has been quoted by Edgar Ansel
Mowrer in his N.Y. “Post” column. The
quoted writer notes “a basic change” in
the Eastern European situation, which
would seem to be brought about wholly
by Soviet weakness:
At the bottom of the new situation lies the
vast devastation inflicted upon the Soviet Union
by the Germans. The Nazis systematically
went about their work of making the areas they
abandoned unliveable. In parts of southern
Russia, the Ukraine and White Russia, they
succeeded.
Not only is there no industry or machinery
left in vast areas, but in some regions there is
no housing at all. In parts of White Russia
thousands of poor people are living in primi-
tive, improvised shelters. In some Soviet cities
the level of food available has temporarily
dropped to 800 calories a day—hardly more
than half of that of “starving Vienna.”
More than at any time since the Bolsheviks
took over, they need aid from abroad and they
need maximum manpower. For this reason,
they are: (a) concentrating on getting every
single scrap of available “reparations” from the
countries they occupy; (b) angling for Ameri-
can assistance and (c) withdrawing their gigan-
tic armies from occupied countries in order to
put the men to work.
Within Russia the new five-year plan is meet-
ing horrible difficulties because there is so little
left to start with. Hence the repeated purges.
Moreover, Soviet soldiers are returning from
abroad with open eyes and a disruptive spirit
of independence. Former Soviet marshals have
been deprived of their commands and cannot
get civilian jobs where
they might “influence
people.” The infam-
ous N.K.V.D. has
been divided into two
organisations so that
each should watch
the other.
In a pathetic effort
to Satisfy the soldiers’
demand for consumer
goods, the Govern-
ment has recently
opened a “watch fac-
tory.” What this “fac-
tory” really does is to
put new dials on the
Swiss watches confis-
cated from returning
Red Army men. The
Government sells them
as “Made in Russia.”
The morale of the
Soviet armies abroad,
with the exception of
that in Bulgaria, is
frankly bad. Soviet
soldiers go a.w.l. into
other occupied zones.
They fraternise with
Russian - speaking
foreigners and grouse
about home condi-
tions to them.
Within a reasonably
short time the Red
Armies should be
completely out of Bul-
garia, Ruma'nia,
Hungary and Austria.
Therefore they are
seeking feverishly to
consolidate in these
areas before they leave
Communist - domin-
ated “friendly” Gov-
ernments that can
stand by themselves.
This explains the wave
of terror in Bulgaria and the terror in Hungary.
Whether without direct Soviet support such
regimes can stand in any of these countries is
anybody’s guess.
The overshadowing fact in each and every
country where the Red Army has been —except-
ing Czechoslovakia —is hatred of Moscow and
of the Moscow-made puppet regime.
The Red Army will not pull out of Poland
or relax its hold on Czechoslovakia —deemed
necessary for defence against Germany.
To sum up the situation—the Soviet Union
has emerged from its victorious struggle strong
in appearance, triumphant in spirit—but terribly
weakened in fact.
On this report Mowrer concludes that
U.S.-Britain hold the high cards; “This
time the democracies need nothing from
Russia. They should be able to obtain a
great deal in exchange for positive con-
tributions towards Soviet reconstruction.”
On which it can be said with certainty
that no contributions for that purpose will
be passed by U.S. Congress unless an
extraordinary change comes over the
Soviet attitude. America, most definitely,
has had ’em.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
U.N.O. Shooting Party. —A new U.S. maga-
zine called “ ’47” —no doubt to be changed each
year, if it lasts—repeats a story that has been
‘‘going the rounds of the American delegation
and secretariat at the United Nations.” Some
members of the U.N. Military Commission de-
cided to take a few days off and go out to
South Dakota together lo shoot pheasants.
Hearing of this, a correspondent of Tass, the
Russian news agency, appeared at the Military
Commission h.q. and buttonholed the press
secretary. “Tell me,” he asked, “are the
sians going shooting, too?” “Look, Ivan,” the
press secretary replied, “I said pheasants, not
peasants.”
* * * ♦
U.S. Middle East Oil— One of the compelling
reasons for the increased U.S. interest in the
Eastern Mediterranean and beyond is oil. A
case in point is the agreement of four big
American companies lo share oil development
in Saudi Arabia. Explaining this move, N.Y.
“Journal of Commerce” has stated: “In view
of the inroads that have been made into our
domestic oil resources, it is generally agreed
that foreign oil reserves are vital to national
defence, as well as to the economic future of
the nation. Hence, the orderly development of
the American-owned oil concessions in Saudi
Arabia must be a fundamental objective of
national policy.” It will not make action on
the lines of U.S. Zionist Palestine propaganda
any easier that, to attain that objective of
national policy, “tranquil relations must be
maintained with the Arabian and other Govern-
ments concerned.”
♦ ¥ * *
War, Same Old Slugging. —Eisenhower was
lately quoted debunking the talk of the next
war being a “push-button” affair. U.S. atomic
expert Dr. Vannevar Bush agrees with him.
Talk of the sort, Dr. Bush declares, has done
a good deal of harm: “The trouble is that the
American people have got to thinking in terms
of our pushing the button, and lose sight of
—Chicago “News.”
DEMOCRACY.
the fact that if there were a war tomorrow it
would be the same tough slugging match that
the last one was.”
* # * 9
The D.D.T. Touch. —Nelson’s Victory, built
in 1765 (“She is 11 years senior to the United
States itself,” states a deeply impressed U.S.
commentator), is not so old that she couldn’t
do her bit in the last war; she was a Navy staff
h.q. She suffered some bomb damage, but
survived. However, borers were in her heart of
oak, and the fight against them had been going
on since 1930. “Fortunately,” N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” has recorded, “D.D.T. came to the
rescue; the insecticide was blown into holes
bored in the timbers, and last year some 6000
beetles a day succumbed.” The grand old ship
is now considered to have at least another 50
years of service left in her.
» * * *
Peacemaking Contrasts. —Setting down in
“Foreign Affairs” his impression of last year’s
peacemaking in Paris, Harold Nicolson, who
was a member of the British peace delegation
there in 1919, has stated: “The Russians cer-
tainly sought to use the conference to convey
the impression that they could be a formidable
enemy and a potent friend; the Americans and
British, being mild men on the whole, con-
veyed no such impression.” Nicolson found
it regrettable that “no statesman from the
Western group displayed the same burning con-
viction in the liberal theory as the Russians
and their associates displayed in the Communist
theory.” The entire proceedings left him with
the belief that “the liberal Powers, while being
fair and generous to Russia and her associates,
must maintain united vigilance and strength.”
Also, if U.S.-Britain are to maintain the unity
and consistency he believes vital “Britain must
be more cautious about her commitments,
America more aware of her reponsibilities.”
Canada Allegiance Oath. —Once when some-
thing done over in Maine was more than he
could bear. Colonel McCormick, top dog of
the Chicago “Tribune,” was reported to have
grabbed a pair of office scissors, ascended the
“Tribune Tower” and cut a star out of the
huge Old Glory draped there. Going by the
“Tribune’s” whoops over the Ottawa bill estab-
lishing Canadian citizenship—previously Can-
adians had been classified “British subjects”—
maybe the colonel has put the star back, with
a maple-leaf pinned to it. In which case it
would not last there long if he read the new
Canadian oath of allegiance embodied in the
legislation. It reads: “I swear I will be faith-
ful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty
King George VI, his heirs and successors,
according to law, and that I will faithfully
observe the laws of Canada and fulfill my duties
as a Canadian citizen. So help me God.”
* * * *
Air Travel Gains. —Figures published in
America show huge increases continuing in air
travel. In international flying the U.S. total of
passengers last year was 1,038,000, a rise of 118
per cent, on the previous year. For last year
the airlines of 35 countries flew scheduled ser-
vices to nearly 200 countries, dependencies and
islands. The international route mileage more
than doubled on the previous year. Naturally,
the recent tragic crashes have led airline people
to come out with safety figures; these for U.S.
domestic airlines show that in 1946 fatalities
amounted to 1.24 per 100,000,000 passenger
miles, compared with 2.14 for the previous year.
The British order of air policy priorities has
been officially stated by the Air Ministry:
“Safety first, safety second, safety third, regu-
larity of service, development of service, com-
fort, speed.”
* * * *
Strange Scotch Story. —Repeated, with grief,
from N.Y. “Journal of Commerce”: “Some
imported Scotch whiskies are ‘Scotch’ only so
far as the water in them is concerned. Water is
being exported from Scotland to various
countries on the Continent where it is used to
manufacture inferior grades of whisky. The
whisky is being labelled ‘Scotch’ On the strength
of the water in it, and is being exported through
the world.” The sun should be shining brighter
than ever on Loch Lomond.
* * * *
U.S. Export Boom. —How the war years
bulked out Uncle Sam’s stature as a world figure
is shown by the huge increase of his exports—
expected to be over 10.7 billion dollars this
year, compared to three billion dollars a year
before the war. U.S. imports this year are
expected to be about half the exports, some
5.4 billion dollars. “The gap,” Chicago “Sun”
has commented, “will be bridged mainly by
loans. From this source the rest of the world
will realise something like $4.6 billion, almost
enough to balance our [U.S.] large outflow of
exports. But what happens when the loans
stop, as they must stop in time? Obviously,
unless we then buy more goods abroad —unless
we permit more imports—what we can sell
overseas must drop sharply. If foreign markets
bump down to the pre-war level countless
Americans will be thrown out of work.”
« * « »
Palestine Heat in U.S. —On only this one
issue, Palestine, is there at present any con-
siderable criticism of Britain in America. News-
papers which support Britain as strongly as
during the war can be on this one subject almost
screamingly savage. A London “Daily Mail”
correspondent in New York has reported that
Britain is “getting a bad press, a worse radio
and a most vicious newsreel coverage.” He
added: “The fact that Britain has proved her-
self over and over again the best friend the
Jews ever had has been mutilated and torn to
shreds.” One explanation: “The big political
machines are geared to the vote and can find no
Arabs on their registration lists.” It is esti-
mated that something over half of all Jews in
the world are now in the U.S., more than
5,000,000; and close on half these are in New
York, representing a very big and very im-
portant vote. There should be some interest-
ing sidestepping on the issue in U.N.O. with the
Presidential elections coming up next year.
» * * «
Medicine v. Mars. —U.S. Surgeon - General
Kirk has given some arresting figures on the
triumphs of medicine in the last war, the first,
he has reported, in which the U.S. “lost more
men in battle than died of disease.” The “over-
all disease rate was .6 per thousand men per
year, as compared to 16.5 in World War I.
Thanks to penicillin and sulfa drugs, the mor-
tality from pneumonia has been reduced from
24 per cent, to .6 per cent. Likewise the death
rate in meningitis has been reduced from 38
to 4 per cent.” General Kirk also reported
that of the 599,000 U.S. battle casualties
377,000 were returned to duty in action; only
4£ per cent, died of wounds. “Tetanus was
almost entirely eliminated as a cause of death.”
» ♦ s> •
Vast Car Markets. —In countries that were
directly affected by war, states “World Re-
port,” “from one-third to four-fifths of ail
automobiles were destroyed during the fighting.
In Denmark 81 per cent, of all automobiles
were destroyed or stolen; Luxembourg, 72 per
cent.; Norway, 54; Greece, 41; France, 36;
Italy, 79; China, 74 per cent.” The same pub-
lication reports that, towards making up some
of the leeway, British occupation authorities
are considering the export of the German
“people’s automobile,” of which factories are
now turning out 1000 a month and could turn
out 16,000 a month, which could be sold at
about half the price of equivalent British cars.


m
m
%
m
ta
>4
£SS
AS
IE
ire
m
m
VS
(fy
&
ms
2
t
•■s
T&
■W S
rS y^k
**
»■*»
■*-i
?«>
S SB
5P
T.;r
•i.<r
n
a
tv
SSSB
s<
&
V I
S?*' |p .m’’ ,*M
B : #’• *»’ ; :ipN
vtii -raff* pjo r ' #VV!
ss.
T*V/?
rt‘iaiTv*
I*
* •
•‘r; . /<> . ; .iJV
•M .&*» :pV
:'. > >‘i;v •
. w» r * *■
:%v
r>k
-•:H r .• "'jrk*. t - '■"•■■suiv ; -Sf>, V .Vi
• Apo\tK‘&'.'*yy.
I # „ P jr .aa® .Mm'-
& m W S' - .<3o*
6 / J-' up
» A.*-* 1 * » . t
/ *4>•-
r V#
SvWVSW"""'"''
&
'/ .A\
vt
ft gjjp
. W
s»i*
*'V t.*
*Hia
OIL
<V fs
m
■m.
I
li
i
m
mm
m
i
iwMWfil
mii/lIIIWES
i
sli
flM s
CAI-t
as
1
1
i
/
// #^-
m
V
rseStim.
i
WA
ik:
/i
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
m
<
M
P 467
VACUUM
0
L C
PA N Y
0
M
LTD.
P T Y


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3504
Wednesday, April 9, 1947
DISQUALIFIED.
In admitting 500 new members, the bosses of the Sydney Waterside Workers’ Federation have refused preference to ex-servicemen, although preference is supposed to
be the law, and although 89 per cent, of the 4300 applicants are ex-servicemen. Each applicant’s industrial record is to be examined.”
“Loaded ships at Army rates of pay, did y’? You’re OUT!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directorsw
H. K. Prior J. E. Wehb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB: ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
COUNTRYSIDE THOUGHTS.
The return of the Royal Show, after six
years, is a reminder to a part of Sydney’s
teeming population that Australia still has
a countryside, cherished by those who live
there, and to another part that it is more
difficult to buy votes in the country than
in industrial areas and still more difficult
to keep them.
These times the countryman, especi-
ally in N. S. Wales, is a prey to deep
dissatisfaction and disgust. He has had
enough of the unchallenged mob rule
which has rendered the transport of his
produce by land or sea uncertain at the
best, and which time and again has
condemned cargoes of potatoes and
swedes to rot in undischarged holds.
Subsidies notwithstanding, he is under-
paid for his butter, and knows it. Despite
huge losses of sheep in the drought those
whose wool was commandeered have
been denied profits on dealings in that
commodity on the ground that the trans-
actions which turned in the profits—
from £7,000,000 up—were outside the
strict letter of the commandeering
arrangement. Above all, commandeered
wheat has been and is being sold at arbi-
trary prices ; in the case of New Zealand
ss. 9d. a bushel, and to Australian flour-
millers, so that the price of bread may
be kept down in the cities and towns
from which “Labor” draws most of its
votes, at 3s. plus Is. 4d. flour-tax,
when the current export price is 16s.
The arrangement for the sale at ss. 9d.
was made by Mr. Scully on the ope hand
and Mr. Sullivan on the other. It was
entered into for some obscure reason
connected with the N.Z. elections or with
some queer international bargain of Dr.
Evatt’s, but “Labor” can never explain
its explanations. One thing and one thing
only it makes clear; in all “Labor’s”
meddling with the wheatgrowing industry
—and “Labor” never stops meddling with
it—the political needs of “Labor” are the
main consideration.
It might indeed be said that the “Gov-
ernments” now in office in the Eastern
States and in Canberra —where union
bosses and mobs are concerned, they are
never in power—are completely divorced
from reality in regard to country produc-
tion, and the city press is largely in the
same state of mind. There is a school
of writers who regard any person foolish
enough to live out beyond the range of
neon signs and the lights of picture shows
as a “hillbilly.”
In N, S. Wales and Queensland the
station worker, the shearer, the harvest
hand, the dairyfarm laborer and the
Government railwayman have already
had their wages raised and are all to have
their working hours reduced by city edicts
and enactments. But the countryman is
the sport of workstoppers and of all
manner of “controllers,” all bureaucrats.
Without subsidies, to which he himself
has to contribute in taxes, and which he
would gladly abandon for something ap-
proaching fair market value, the land-
man would, ip thousands of cases, be un-
able to carry on. And many a pastoralist,
scourged by drought and “controls,” ex-
posed to strikes, threatened with
£400,000,000 Budgets and sneered at by
Ministers like Mr. Dedman, who said
before the general election that Is. 6d. in
the pound from an income taxed 18s. 6d,
ought to be enough for any man, is won-
dering how he can carry on.
City “Labor” Governments are fertile
of projects like Sydney’s eastern rail-
way, which will cost £50,000,000, and
the Ward unification scheme, for which
the estimate is £230,000,000. Nowadays
no person to whom time is precious
travels by rail if he can travel by air; and
large sections of the outback could dis-
pense with railways if they could buy
heavy-duty trucks.
But if the Chifleys and Wards remain
in office the £230,000,000 scheme will
be proceeded with, for a “reason” stated
by Mr. Ward: “What better way is there
to give employment?” What, indeed —
and what better method of shifting a
handy floating vote and of influencing a
local one, cost regardless?
There are non-“ Labor” projects that
would be welcomed even if “Labor”
undertook them, and even if in the pro-
cess large bodies of unionists were drafted
into country electorates. Of such is Earle
Page’s statesmanlike and long-advocated
plan to provide the country from well
north of Brisbane to south of Sydney
with cheap hydro - electric power,
electric railways and irrigation. This, if
adopted, would certainly result in the
development of a large new industrial
area and the permanent settlement of a
large new population. But it carries no
more appeal to “Labor” than the doctor’s
proposals for the swift production of in-
creased food for Britain. The coalminers
would object; and in these matters what
the coalminers say goes. In any case there
is the other obstacle that the thing has
been proposed by a member of the Oppo-
sition.
It seems to be taken for granted in
ci(y union circles that countrymen will
blithely work the clock round so that
they may go on selling necessaries at cur-
rent prices to the 40-hour-week protdgds
of the McGirrs and the Hanlons. Cer-
tain “Labor” politicians, notably Mr.
Calwell of Melbourne (“the 40-hour-
week should have been introduced ten
years ago”), share this illusion. Others
of the tribe are soberly contemplating the
election results in South Australia and
Westralia, where country “Labor” mem-
bers polled badly, being defeated or
reduced to microscopic majorities almost
everywhere, and are wondering how cor-
responding disasters can be averted in
N. S. Wales, Queensland and Victoria.
And some of them during the current
month will read with moody interest the
reports of a High Court case in which
wheatgrowers are challenging the con-
stitutionality of the sale of commandeered
wheat at arbitrary prices, whether for
home consumption or export. These
wheatgrowers are taking their stand on
the sub-section (XXXI) which empowers
the Commonwealth Parliament to “make
laws with respect to the acquisition of
property from any State or person for
any purpose in respect of which the Par-
liament has power to make laws.”
“Property” is an elastic expression, but on
one vital point the sub-section is very
definite: “the acquisition of prbperty”
must be on “just terms.”
Asian Relations.
One of the first acts of Sutan Sjahrir after
his signing with the Dutch of the Cheri-
bon agreement which recognised de facto
his Javanese republic was to open dis-
cussions with Australia for revival of
trade. That would apparently require the
appointment of an Indonesian “special
commissioner” to this country “as soon
as the Australian Government is prepared
to accredit him” (A.A.P. report). In a
statement made immediately before his
departure on a week’s visit to India,
Sutan Sjahrir said he was anxious to pay
an official visit to Australia also, “to dis-
cuss the watersiders’ ban and other means
of immediate economic co-operation be-
tween the two countries.”
There need be no mistake about the
meaning of that statement. The leader
of “our Indernesian comrades” knows
exactly where he has got the Chifley
Government, and where the authority lies
in the direction of Australian policy in
the N.E.I. Sutan Sjahrir went on to de-
clare in the same statement that he “will
not ask Australian watersiders to lift their
ban on Dutch ships” until the N.E.I.
Government compels the Dutch to cease
the “use of naval vessels against the re-
public.” “His republic,” he said, “had
not yet received one acceptable reason
from the Dutch why it should change its
attitude over the watersiders’ ban.”
The effect on the Australian wharfies’
Communist executive was immediate.
Some days previously their Federal secre-
tary, Healy, had said the ban on Dutch
ships would be withdrawn as soon as his
federation heard of the ratification of
the Dutch-Javanese Cheribon agreement.
But Sutan Sjahrir had not spoken then.
As soon as Sjahrir’s statement quoted
above had been received, Healy’s assis-
tant-secretary, Roach, hastened to accord
to the Javanese Republican Government
that loyal obedience which his executive
withholds from Canberra. Sutan Sjahrir,
said Roach, need not fear that the ban
would be lifted until full independence
had been granted his republic and was in
operation—that is to say, until Sjahrir
gives the word. If Mr. Chifley and Dr.
Evatt take that lying down, they will take
anything; and any pretence that their
Ministry directs any foreign policy save
that dictated to it by outside interests
will be shown up for what it is worth.
After their colleague Calwell’s exhor-
tation to “the workers” to “keep their
grievances on ice” until after the N.S.W.
and Queensland elections, it would cause
no surprise if Mr! Chifley were to request
Moscow’s agents in the watersiders’ union
to have Sutan Sjahrir’s visit to Australia
postponed on the same pressing political
account. But, to adapt what the show-
man said of thfc Ornithorhynchus para-
doxus, “when he do come, lor’, ’ow he
will enjoy hisself.” It is to be hoped
that electors in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land will enjoy themselves in tfte power
they will have on May 3 to say what
they think of all this.
Sutan Sjahrir’s visit in the interim to
India cannot be unconnected with the
current meeting in Delhi of the Asian
Relations Conference, called by Mr.
Nfehru, that aspiring head of another and
bigger republic which his Congress party
plans for India. Our “IndemeSian com-
rades” were already represented there,
along with some 200 delegates and ob-
servers from other parts. Its general pur-
pose was to forward the movement of
“Asia for the Asiatics” which Japan ex-
ploited for its own aggressive purposes.
But for the war fought by the Western
Powers, Japan’s game would have put an
end to any chance of self-government
for the Southern Asian peoples. '
Mr. Nehru’s conference met in Delhi
Old Fort to the cheers of some thousands
of sheltered spectators and the liveliest
communal rioting outside the Fort walls.
Indeed, throughout India Hindus and
Moslems marked the event by celebrating
national freedom in the bloodiest fashion
against each other. In Delhi after the
first day’s meeting the situation became
so grave that an early curfew had to be
imposed, to the discomfiture of guests
and hosts alike—creating, as one reporter
supposed, “unfortunate impressions” in
the minds of the visitors. Yet to those
from Palestine, China and the Caspian
littoral it all must have seemed just like
home.
The list of countries represented at the
opening, as recorded m the London
“Times,” is highly interesting. They
were;
Afghanistan Kerghiztan
Azerbaijan Malaya
Bhutan Nepal
China Palestine
Egypt Siam
Georgia Tajikstan
Indonesia Tibet
Iran Turkey
Uzbekistan
Delegations from Korea and the Philip-
pines arrived late, Japan, late entre-
preneur in the business of bringing co-
prosperity to Asians by the sword, had
also received an invitation, but the
Allied occupation authorities unkindly
objected, and the Tokyo Foreign Minister
could send only fraternal greetings.
Of those listed as present, four dele-
gations came from Soviet republics (the
“Times” says there were six such delega-
tions in all); Bhutan is a minute State of
200,000 people in the eastern Himalayas
and as proud of disowning Tibet as is
Tibet of disowning China ; and the Tajiks
are a non-nomadic sect of Afghans who
prefer to cling to Persian speech. Why
Egypt was present as an Asian State is
not clear. The Palestine party, when
examined, proved to be one of Jews, and
they duly provoked a row on the opening
day with the Arab League delegates. The
leader from Iran (which at U.N.O. had
changed its name back to Persia) ex-
plained several times publicly that he and
his colleagues were visiting India on a
commercial mission and were attending
only out of courtesy. While Viet-nam
was,“unable to accept” (though appar-
ently the Commander-in-Chief in South
Viet-nam turned up later), its proxy dele-
gate as noticed by the London
“Observer” correspondent writing in
“S. M. Herald” —was “visibly embarrassed
by the near-by presence of three Indo-
Chinese delegates headed by a French-
man.”
Among “observers” were persons from
the United States, Australia, New Zea-
land, the Arab League, the Pacific Rela-
tions Conference, and the London In-
stitute of International Affairs. The
Indian Moslems refused to send even
observers. Although the communal riot-
ing outside the very precincts abated not
at all during the sessions of the Con-
ference, Mr. Nehru, in his opening
address, extolled the contribution which
united Asians would make to world
peace, “as contrasted with the moral
bankruptcy of the West,” which had
“only led the world into wars and con-
flicts.” What the Asians’ contribution
might be did not emerge from a gather-
ing in which the Chinese on the dais
were already looking askance at the
Tibetan “independents,” and Nehru him-
self had to intervene in a fracas between
Jews and Arabs which ended in the Jewish
leader leaving the gathering “in a huff.”
It was no doubt in consideration of
Indian Moslem feeling outside that Mr.
Nehru ventured the comment that he
had always regarded Palestine as an
essentially Arab country. But Pales-
tine, being still under British occu-
pation, remains in Mr. Nehru’s view
at a disadvantage. He said he be-
lieved Jews and Arabs would compose
their differences if “the third party” —
as in India, of course —would withdraw
from the country. By all the signs Mr.
Nehru would be exceedingly unhappy if
British troops were not at present still
in India and maintaining a check on riot-
ing that comes perilously close to a
state of civil war.
As the conference sessions ran on into
other days, the Soviet’s puppet delega-
tions, which had already recommended,
as a means towards the idealist objective
paraded by Nehru, a study of the Soviet
system of political government, pressed
for the implementation of resolutions
concerning racial problems. They were
particularly keen on a submitted report
urging equality for citizens of all races
everywhere—the same high-sounding plea
that the Soviet’s agents use, as executives
of Australian unions, for demanding the
abolition of “White Australia.” With
the help of these local disloyalists and
their “Indernesian comrades,” Asian rela-
tions are likely to become before long
a very explosive problem for this country.
Indeed the conference closed with a
“private session” at which, according to
A.8.C., it was suggested that India should
take up with the Australian Government
“the question of White Australia” on be-
half of all Asiatic peoples.
Rotten Potatoes.
“Rotten potatoes,” said the Duke of
Wellington—“rotten potatoes have done
it all; they put Peel in his damned fright.”
The old Duke was referring to the
Irish famine of 1845 and its immediate
consequences to his greatest political
friend. He surmised, correctly, that the
rains that rotted the Irish potato crops
would wash the Peel Government out of
office, and they did, but not before they
had “rained the corn laws away.” In
Ireland itself they brought about a situa-
tion so terrible that “from 200,000 to
300,000 perished of starvation or of fever
caused by insufficient food.” By April,
1847, “743,000 persons, representing a
family aggregate of 3,000,000,” were on
relief work, and there had meanwhile
begun that vast emigration of Irish,
breathing hatred of and vengeance against
England, whose political effects not only
operated for generations but are traceable
here and now.
It will be a strange and ironic caprice
of history if a potato issue brings down
a Government headed by a -descendant
of one of those Irish emigrants. But Mr.
James McGirr, the Sydney “Labor”
Premier, has all too much reason to fear
that this will be the case.
There are in the Sydney area 43
Assembly electorates, and in nearly every
instance there is a substantial majority
of women. And to all these ladies who
are housewives or bachelor girls the
potato is no “precarious exotic,” but a
staple of their dinners —when they can
get it. Green vegetables are scarte and
dear, but, because of the Commonwealth
subsidy, potatoes are fairly cheap—when
they can be gotand when that is the
case they have to be carried home, often
after an acrimonious argument with the
greengrocer. But the achievement of
potatoes is an uncertain triumph, so
rendered by the whims of the Sydney
members of the Waterside Workers’
Federation, who formed the habit of
holding up cargoes of Tasmanian
potatoes till they rot, and then demand-
ing “stench” money at 10s. an hour be-
fore they will shift the rottenness,
physical effect of the moral rottenness of
their union.
In the latest waterfront strike, which
was ordered by “moderates” of the same
racial origins and political affiliations as
Mr. McGirr, 43,000 tons of Tasmanian
potatoes were in the holds of three ships
tied up in Sydney for a fortnight. Eighty-
five other ships were tied up and some
of them contained food for Britain, but
that seems to have been immaterial to
Mr. McGirr, and it was certainly of no
consequence to the Coughlans and Ferrys.
Potatoes had been scarce before the strike
broke out and they were off the average
domestic menu for three weeks. During
that period did potato-starved housewives
and bachelor girls get any comfort or
hope from Premier McGirr? Not a
skerrick!
On the contrary, Premier McGirr sided
with the strikers as far as he dared. Two
Liberal members who had tried to
arrange for the unloading of the potatoes
and swedes (they rotted) by volunteer
labor were denounced by Premier Mc-
Girr as unscrupulous electioneers, even
after they had been assaulted by a Com-
munist basher-gang at a Sydney Domain
meeting. They had apprised one of Mr.
McGirr’s Ministers of their intention to
hold the public meeting and secured his
permission to instal a loudspeaker;
nevertheless, Mr. McGirr professed to see
in the public meeting “an incitement to
mob violence,” and the forms of the
House were used to stifle debate on the
whole wicked business, as was the case
also at Canberra, here at Mr. Chifley’s
instance.
Mr. McGirr had to say something be-
fore the gag was applied, and he said
enough to show where his sympathies
lay and how obsequious he and his
“Government” are whenever union
wreckers issue their writs;
The wharflaborers are prepared to unload
the ships during ordinary working hours.
But they are now being directed to work
overtime; therein lies the real dispute.


If this is a matter of such great urgency to
the Leader of the Opposition, why doesn’t
lie go to his masters the shipowners and per-
suade them to let the men unload the
ships during ordinary working hours?
That was said on March 20, and on
March 25 the wharflaborers returned to
“work” with a point gained—two over-
time nights instead of three, as “directed”
by the pathetic Stevedoring Industry Com-
mission, which is under severe union-boss
and “Labor” pressure all the time; And
this was the position on April 2 v-r
The back-lag of 200,000 tons of cargo,
accumulated before and during the strike,
has not been reduced. At the pick-up on
April 1 five overseas ships had no labor; 29
others and 11 of 22 inter-State ships were
short of the labor they required—B6oo
men, and only 5000 working; an average
“maintained” since the strike. During the
February-April quarter 13 food ships for
Britain will have been diverted to New
Zealand because of the “policy” of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation in Australia.
There are people who noted sourly that
the McGirrs closed their “Parliament,”
whose principal achievements during
its 1944-47 term were the Sydney
Turf Club, Bung and the Brewer and
Assemblymen’s Pensions Acts and the
transfer of Mr. McKell to Government
House, Canberra, without voting an ounce
of food to the British people in their
desperate plight, though a gift of money
was promised on the day Assembly nomi-
nations closed. There are others, women,
who will never forget that, in a spirit of
utter servility to unwhipped demagogues
and mobs, the McGirrs were ready to
let cargoes of potatoes and other perish-
ables rot rather than address even a
whimpering word to the wharfies.
PLAIN ENGLISH
State Elections.
Comparisons of 1946 Federal-election re-
turns with those of corresponding divi-
sions of N.S.W. State electorates in 1944
mark the development of the swing
against “Labor” which was reflected at
the November-March State polls
strongly in Tasmania, more strongly in
South Australia and more strongly still in
Westralia.
In South Australia the swing was evi-
denced to the extent of nearly six per
cent, of the votes. Going on State-elec-
tion figures only, the same result in
Queensland three weeks hence would
overturn the long-standing “Labor” hold
on that State, even though the electoral
boundaries favor the party on the
Treasury benches, as has been the case
for nearly 30 years. And it has to be
remembered that at the end of Septem-
ber the Queensland electors rejected
Army Minister Forde (his only defeat in
quarter of a century), reduced the
majorities of his surviving colleagues in
the House and elected three Opposition
Senators —the only State that did.
On the basis of Federal-election figures,
ten “Labor” seats in the N.S.W.
Assembly should turn over, and the Op-
position parties’ decision to support a
single candidate in Goulburn and in
Albury (as was done in Capricornia, un-
fortunately for Mr. Forde) augurs well
for winning these two seats, also. The
gaining of five more from “Labor”, and
two from “good-as-‘Labor’ ” Indepen-
dents, all shakily held, would send the
McGirrs packing. In the present
temper of the constituencies this task
should not be difficult, especially as Mr.
Treatt and Colonel Bruxner have arrived
at an agreement as full and friendly as
that with which the electors declared
themselves satisfied in Westralia, and
which has been followed by a friendly
and fair distribution of Ministerial
offices. On excellent terms also are Mr.
Nicklin and Mr. Pie and their parties in
Queensland.
The “chain” which Mr. Chifley asked
the S.A. electors to complete a month ago,
and was signally rebuffed, is broken past
repair. In Victoria “Labor” will lose
Parliament any day now, and May 3 will
provide the opportunity for Queensland
and N.S.W. electors to throw off the
“chain” on the remaining two mainland
States. All the signs are that the swing
is developing a course too strong and
wide for Chifley-McGirr-Hanlon election-
month concessions to arrest.
Dr. Evatt's Playmates.
Events in the External Affairs Depart-
ment show how it is run, and go far
towards explaining why Australian
foreign policy is not a considered reflec-
tion of opinion, Parliamentary or public
—as Was instanced at U.N.O. in the
abandonment of the sister Dominion
of South Africa, faced with color
problems which should have won it
the unswerving help of the Common-
wealth.
Some of our own color problems have
apparently proved too much for Dr. Evatt,
since he has allowed Dr. Sjahrir, of the
Indonesian Republic, to establish direct
relations with the Communist bosses of
the wharfies and concert not only an
important part of our external policy but
the internal management of our harbors
—a menacing impertinence to which
only a “ ‘Labor’ Government” would
submit.
The External Affairs Department left’
its old life behind in 1941, when the
Communists demanded that Dr. Evatt
should appoint a Minister to Moscow and
he complied, as a preliminary to plung-
ing into the diplomatic world on a mil-
lion-pound-a-year scale.
It is true that diplomacy calls for
lifelong skill and experience, but Dr.
Evatt was able to dispense with such
trifling qualifications, the main equip-
ment of an Australian diplomat, judging
by recent appointments, being that the
appointee should have proved himself
consistently fluent as a University lec-
turer and should be gifted with the assur-
ance of a radio uncle.
The system has come into prominence
through the sudden withdrawal of Mr.
Paul Hasluck (or Hadluck) from an Am-
bassadorial position as a “world leader”
FRANCO TO ALL AND SUNDRY.
“Yielding to the irresistible arguments of you. Dr. Evatt, and your young
friend, I am here proclaiming my decision to retire —when I die.”
among the Bevins and Marshalls, to which
he was elevated at one bound from a
university lectureship. Mr. Hasluck’s
retirement, like the betrayal of South
Africa, has not been explained, but
it would seem that he was refused
the right to make his own policy about
Pacific defences and United States annex-
ations, and abruptly decided to revert to"
the obscure state in which his recreations
{vide Who’s Who ) were not baiting
statesmen but “theatre, riding, old
colonists’ stories and printing.”
Even more astonishing than the Has-
luck resignation is the appointment of
Colonel Hodgson temporarily to fill Mr.
Hasluck’s (or Hadluck’s) shoes. Colonel
Hodgson’s original transfer from the
Under-Secretaryship to an Ambassador’s
office in Paris was understandable. The
fact that it removed from control of the
department a man with a fighting record,
a knowledge of European languages and
the only real experience of diplomacy
in the Australian Civil Service, and
that he might have resisted turning it into
a million-a-year playground for amateurs
and an advertising agency for the
Minister, was sufficient justification for
sending him abroad. It is to be noted,
however, that he is the inconvenient ex-
ception, and that he will be used in
U.N.O. for as short a period as possible,
since he is needed to carry out positively
overwhelming Ambassadorial duties in
Paris.
In Japan Dr. Evatt has not been so in-
discreet as to break with policy as he
did in Paris and, perhaps as a measure to
reassure our diplomats that all is well with
Australia {i.e., Dr. Evatt), he has created
a “diplomatic mission in Tokyo” and ap-
pointed a Mr. Macmahon Ball, who is to
have the rank of Minister. Mr. Mac-
mahon Ball, a Melbourne University lec-
turer and radio commentator, announced
on September 1, 1939, that Hitler wouldn’t
fight because the German workers
wouldn’t let him’; and since then Mr.
Macmahon Ball has carried all before
him.
Commonsense and precedents would
suggest that, since Japan i§ virtually
ruled by General MacArthur, and that
the realisation of a proper foothold for
Australia in the Far East depends on
having someone there who knows General
MacArthur and his mind, the doctor
might have chosen Lieut.-General Frank
Berryman. This distinguished fighting
officer was the Commonwealth’s military
liaison with the American command, and
he must know more about General Mac-
Arthur’s thoughts than any other Aus-
tralian. He might possibly have secured
for Australia a share in the advance dis-
tribution of Japanese reparations, in
which important matter Mr. Mac-
mahon Ball’s influence has proved
negligible.
No Admittance or Exit.
Why are these European Jews so keen
on crowding into Palestine or into Syd-
ney and Melbourne, lately to the em-
barrassment of their patron Calvell?
Why aren’t these people flocking to
Russia? To Russia, which, with 1940 and
1945 annexations, now has 8,600,000
square miles of territories, verjr, sparsely
populated in Asia, and whose Government
“in 1928 allotted” to Jews “an area of
36,490 square kilometres in the district
of Biro-Bidjan, the Jewish Autonomous
Region of the Far East: population,
1935, 60,000” {Statesmans Year-Book )?
Or why aren’t they remaining in coun-
tries with Communists in office or
Russian armies on the premises
eating their heads off: Yugoslavia,
Czechoslovakia, Rumania, ’ Hungary,
Austria and Poland?
A New York “Times” writer, Albert
J. Gordon, put the conundrum on Jan. 30
to the secretary of the Jewish Labor
Committee, a Mr. Jacob Pat, of New
York. Said Mr. Pat:
Unfortunately we cannot say that dis-
placed Jews can look for a haven in Soviet
Russia, since no one is admitted into the
Soviet Union. In addition 150,000 Polish
Jews who escaped Hitler tyranny are most
anxious to leave the Soviet Union, and when
given the opportunity ( practically all chose
to return to their unsettled conditions in
the country of their origin, Poland.
“No one admitted” into the Workers’
Paradise! Not even one of those Jews
who have declared war on Britain! As
a Jew Mr. Pat can scarcely be called a
“Jew-baiter.” Perhaps he will be de-
nounced as a “Red-baiter.”
But even this will be difficult, for just as
no foreigners are admitted to the U.S.S.R.,
so no Russians are allowed to leave.
This has come out in the cases of 15
Russian girls married to British soldiers
and officials who have been refused per-
mission to join their husbands. News-
paper remonstrances, a House of Com-
mons debate in which reprisals were sug-
gested and personal representations made
to Mr. Stalin by Mr. Bevin have gone
for nothing ; the cruel ban, ordered in
the spirit of complete Oriental despotism,
remains.
A natural inference is that it was issued
and is maintained because the internal
condition of Russia is terrible, and be-
cause the 15 brides know it and would
tell too much.
Lesson from S.A.
After T. A. Hiley, deputy leader of
the Queensland People’s party, had
visited S.A. to seek “reasons for the
Liberal party’s recent success and its
State’s industrial progress,” he returned
to Brisbane slightly dazed by the progress
in housing and the low cost of the houses
built by the S.A. Housing Trust.
Imagine a brick home with three bed-
rooms, rented at not more than 225. 6d.
a week! South Australia is building
them, with cavity brick walls, tiles, sewer-
age, gas or electric stoves, bath-heater,
stainless-steel sink, wood or gas copper,
food cupboards, linen presses, right down
to clothes lines. Attractive brick homes on
good land are being sold at £l4OO for 1280
sq. ft., £1270 for 1120 sq. ft. and £ll9O
for 1060 sq. ft. Construction costs in
Adelaide are about £95 to £lOO a square,
substantially below our cost here.
The returned wanderer put this down
to the Trust’s habit of makihg sure a
house would be finished without interrup-
tion once it was started and to a strict
supervision of contract prices. “There-
fore South Australia has built more
houses and better houses for less cost.”
This report stung Premier Hanlon, who
has to win an election next month, into
replying that brick-on-edge construction
in S.A. reduced costs about £3O a house,
and that this type of construction was
“frowned upon here” and “probably
would come clattering down in the first
cyclonic blow.” Mr. Hanlon added that
in S.A. houses were built in pairs, which
saved up to £lOO a house, but Queens-
landers did not like semi-detached homes.
To which thousands of homeless
Queenslanders reply that they’d chance
the S.A, house in a cyclone, and that a
semi-detached home is better than no
home at all.
Free Health Services.
In Health Reform in New Zealand, a little
book published by Whitcombe and
Tombs, the eminent surgeon and medical
counsellor of Auckland, Dr. Douglas
Robb, has produced an authoritative and
impartial review of the operation and
effect of his Dominion’s free health
measures, upon the planning of which
the Canberra people have largely drawn
for their own schemes.
The N.Z. Social Security legislation of
1938 was, like its Australian facsimiles,
“political in its conception, and technical
and professional considerations were al-
most entirely 'ignored.”
Surveying briefly what has been done,
and emphasising that the politicians had
ultimately to recognise ’ that they could
not force the doctors, Dr. Robb comes
with all speed to the weaknesses which the
experiment has exposed. His preliminary
comments cover also some sharply arrest-
ing figures concerning the cost of these
services.
The charge on wages is a con-
siderable burden, and the crisis will come
if this yield, as he expects, falls off., In a
population of 1,691,000 (including
Maoris) the cost of free medical and
hospital services in 1945-46 was
£5,536,564, and of all social-security bene-
fits £31,399,000 —respectively £3 ss. sd.
and £lB 12s. per capita. From consoli-
dated revenue £7 millions had to be trans-
ferred to social-security account to supple-
ment receipts from social-security taxa-
tion at Is. in the £. For 1946-47 the direct
levy has been raised to Is. 6d. in the £,
and will require assistance by £lB millions
from the consolidated revenue. And to
what end, thus far?
Doctors have rapidly become extra-
ordinarily prosperous... .The emphasis is
placed on the number of acts done (fee
per service) rather than on quality
trifling things that ought to be done by a
nurse or secretary... .The tendency is to-
wards quick superficial work and the avoid-
ance of difficult subjects, times and places.
Perhaps the worst feature of present
arrangements lies in the assumption that
the style and scope of general practice as
we knew it before 1940 left nothing to be
desired. Many medical leadens were trying
to wean both people and doctors away
from their addiction to the old style and
methods with their inevitable bottle of
medicine. Far from helping this endeavor
the Social Security Act has confirmed the
old methods and entrenched their already
vested interests with richer rewards than
ever Present arrangements cannot last.
Not indefinitely can a system of rewards
be justified in which a doctor newly quali-
fied can earn double or even treble the
salary of a professor of medicine.
Dr. Robb has little better to report on
condition of hospitals and of the nursing-
service than on that of general practice.
He sees the true lines of advance in the
organisation of health centres, on the
British national scheme’s pattern, in
which groups of doctors will work co-
operatively, and each centre is equipped
with a “complete set of facilities, from a
full-length base-hospital-downward.” In
a community educated in this vision he
believes “politicians and organised pro-
fessional groups would tumble over each
other to get on with the job.”
Will another enthusiast have to write
the same lament on the Australian
scheme?


1
-- • ■
mmm?.
For greater smoking
enjoyment —give me
CRAVENA
%tf***y**1 f
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
w
POLITICAL POINTS
To hold the line against inflation, a
Rooseveltian phrase, Federal “Labor”
went in for wage-pegging and price-
control. An army of price-controllers
still exists, and so does a pyramid of
wage-pegging regulations ; but, as Chifley
put it last week in response to the des-
perate representations of Cain, McGirr
and Hanlon, wage-pegging is to be “re-
laxed further by conferring on all in-
dustrial authorities the power to alter
rates of remuneration in any type of case,
provided the Chief Judge of the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court is satisfied
that alteration is not opposed to the
national interest.” Poor Chief Judge!
He must look back longingly to the
days when he was a battalion commander
in Gallipoli and a brigadier in France
and had only fighting men to deal with
—not scared and buck-passing “Labor”
politicians, and Communists and “moder-
ate” union secretaries, bidding hard
against one another.
Calwell can’t be seeing his Archbishop
so often as when he said, in that en-
dearing way of his, that the Red Hat
should have gone to Dr. Mannix instead
of to “a comparatively junior member
of the hierarchy,” and that Archbishop
Panico, whose presumed recommendation
had caused “widespread consternation and
bitter resentment,” had worn out his
welcome. Communists were discussed
by Dr. Mannix and the Minister for No
Information on Immigration the same
afternoon. Calwell affected to laugh at
the notion that Communists are mischiev-
ous or dangerous—“it is surprising how
few people have turned to the Com-
munist party ; I don’t believe the workers.
are urged into disputes" by minority
groups.” Dr. Mannix agreed as to Com-
munists being a minority group, but re-
ferred to them as “controlling this coun-
try at the moment they are able to
seize strategic points in the economy of
Australia and paralyse the whole coun-
try.” It is not in the Archbishop’s nature
to twist as Calwell has twisted.
In their arrangements for and conduct
of their victorious election the Westralian
Liberal and C.P. leaders set an example
to their opposite numbers in N. S. Wales,
Queensland and Victoria, and their good
feeling was continued in the distribution
of Ministerial offices —ten. They have
been equally divided, with McLarty as
Premier (he has a slight advantage in
numbers in both Houses) and Watts as
Deputy Premier and Minister of Educa-
tion. Land and Agriculture, Works and
Water Supplies, Railways and Transport
are to be in the hands of C.P. Ministers,
Thorn, Doney and Seward respectively.
Mrs. Cardell-Oliver is to be concerned,
as assistant, with Education and Health.
A better division could scarcely have
been made.
Ex-Speaker Troy returned to Westralia
by the Orion after eight years in the
London office. On the wharf to greet
him was the Agent-General-elect, W. H
Kitson, who was Chief Secretary in the
late “Labor” Administration. Had the
appointment of Troy’s successor been
delayed till after the Assembly elections,
as it should have been, Kitson wouldn't
have had a Chinaman’s chance; but
when there are cushy jobs to be filled
“Labor” never loses a moment.
In B. 2/4/’47 the Westralian
Assembly electorate of Nelson was in-
correctly assigned to the Liberals. It was
held for “Labor” by E. K. Hoar with
an increased majority—unique save for
an improved vote against Hill, the C.P.
member for Albany. In the 28 other
contested electorates the “Labor” vote
slumped; decisively in half a dozen.
Hoar had very weak opposition.
An organisation with 133,000 members
has suggested to the Government that it
reduce the meat and butter rations by “at
least one-half,” the surplus to be sent to
“the distressed people of Britain.” Any
union? Any Labor Council? The A.LP.
or the A.C.T.U.? No ; the New Zealand
Returned Soldiers’ Association, more
power to its elbow!'
Just when the McGirrs in N.S.W. were
being reminded by one of their number
that they’d be hard put to it to hold coun-
try seats Chifley came to light with a de-
cision to force State “Governments,” shire
councils, municipalities and pastures pro-
tection boards to transfer their accounts
to the Commonwealth Bank. Nothing
would be more apt to stir up the bush
than that.
Hanlon’s 40-hour-week promise looked
good election bait until the Trades Hall
urged him to call Parliament together
and shove it through, as McGirr has done
in Sydney, before polling-day. Hanlon
hasn’t answered the demand and, with
the elections in S.A. and Westralia in-
flicting frightful defeats on ''o-hour-week
parties, the bait now looks slightly moth-
eaten.
Electioneering in Queensland rural dis-
tricts, Hanlon and. his cohorts had a lot
to say about decentralisation. Then some
nark caifie out with figures to show that
under “Labor” rule large lumps of the
country had lost electors to Brisbane ;
and after that the Hanlons began to talk
about something else.
Nearly all the 32 electorates mentioned
by O’Sullivan as having been lost 15
years ago are now in “Labor’s” pos-
session, most of them precariously.
Among them are Kogarah, Petersham,
Mudgee, Goulbum and Granville, which
all rejected Ministers in 1932 ; and Mc-
Girr himself, then Minister of Trans-
port, and now Premier, whose stocks
have slumped heavily because of the
craven nonsense be talked on the subject
of the latest wharf strike, was hard put
to it to hold Bankstown. It wouldn’t re-
quire anything like the 1932 swing to
deprive “Labor” of those 32 seats or
the equivalent.
British “Labor” has had its conscrip-
tion split; 75 members, pacifists and
near-Communists, voted against the
Attlee National Service Bill, which
provided for thfe calling up of 18-year-
olds for 18 months’ full-time training in
the Army, Navy or Air Force and 66
months in reserves; and, another 100
“Labor” members “abstained.” If the
Australian precedent is followed there
will be two “Labor” parties M a few
months and a coalition Government by
the end of the year. But to appease the'
opponents and abstainers the full-time-
service period is to be altered to a twelve-
month.
At Bendigo last week Menzies said
some characteristic things about the sort
of industrial peace to be ushered in by
Dr. Evatt’s 15 Conciliation Commis-
sioners, “all to hold office till they reach
65 and to be paid £l5OO a year.”
I told one Minister that the only thing
I could see was there would be such a rush
of Labor members for the jobs that there
would be a decent crop of by-elections.
But why should there be? In the course
of four,months six “Labor” members
were defeated in Tasmania —two were
Ministers, ousted by members of their
own party —another four in S.A. and an
additional six in Westralia. Surely they
are eligible.
Even when they are up against it the
British never lose their sense of humor
and they must have been moved to gales
of laughter by the ultimatum that reached
them from Tito for immediate delivery
of £l5 millions’ worth of food from the
U.K. and 200,000 tons from U.N.R.R.A.
Receiving no reply the former Balkan
beauty boy had a crack at the U.S.A.,
alleging that its Minister departing from
Belgrade “constantly interfered in Yugo-
slav affairs and slandered Yugoslavia,”
adding, in his frenzy, that “Russia is the
only country that does not threaten Yugo-
slav independence” ; “Yugoslavia appreci-
ates U.N.R.R.A. contributions, but re-
gards them as its right” Australia fur-
nished some of these “contributions.”
There will be no more from any “capi-
talist” quarter so long as Tito and his
gangsters are about.
When the Orion reached Fremantle the
Orient Co.’s I. C. Geddes intimated that
she had had to leave_hehind 250 tons of
cargo for Westralia, and gave the reason.
By a rule of the Stevedoring Industry
Commission the wharflaborers there have
been relieved of their obligation to work
after noon on Saturday, and, arriving on
Saturday morning, the Orion couldn’t
hang round till Monday waiting on
punters. At Sydney Geddes said ship-
building costs had been trebled and
running costs doubled, and it rested
with the Waterside Workers’ Federation
to decide whether the company’s pro-
gramme could be continued.
The array of guests who attended the
welcome luncheon to R.M.S. Orion sat
stunned while Calvell praised the shipping
cos., particularly the big ones, and dilated
on his “plans” for using the Orient ships
to carry 70,000 immigrants a year from
Britain to Australia. It did not dawn on
anybody that it was April Fool’s Day till
well after the show was over.
One day last week Edmunds, MX.A.,
was formally censured by Melbourne
University undergrads., many with their
tongues in their cheeks, for saying too
much about Communists, fellow-travel-
lers and sympathisers in teaching bodies.
On the same day one J. F. Cairns, lec-
turer on economic history at the Uni-
versity, unwittingly came to the Hawthorn
man’s rescue with a sweeping attack on
all critics of Russia and Communists,
winding up with a fool-question: “Is
there any acceptable evidence that Com-
munists are acting as agents for the
U.S.S.R.?” That day the electors of
Cartier, Montreal, voted in the by-elec-
tion caused by the conviction of the
Polish Jew “Rose” for his part in the
Soviet spy plot. They chose a supporter
of the Government that placed “Rose” on
trial, rfelegating the Communist candidate
to a bad third in a field of three. Cairns
is obviously a bad case of Moscowmania.
If the University authorities think he is
worth trying to cure they should place
him under treatment —12 months with a
pick and shovel.
Westralian “Labor” is still reeling from
the shock of its defeats in the outports of
Geraldton and Bunbury, which were
“Labor” long before the first German
war, and were never anything else till
March 15. And neither could have
been lost if a fair number of wharf-
laborers and their womenfolk hadn’t
voted the other way. Pity the Liberals
didn’t contest any of the Fremantle elec-
torates. One or more of those, added to
Geraldton and Bunbury, might have had
a chastening effect on the Healys,
Healeys, Roaches, Morans, Coughlans
and Ferrys of the Waterside Workers’
Federation.
A plague of mice is infesting the Vic.
Mallee, eating wheat stacks and newly-
sown seed from the paddocks, raiding
stores and destroying furniture and cloth-
ing. They’re being attacked with fumi-
gators and traps, and presently they’ll
fade away and not be seen again for
years and the loss they cause will be
marked only against this year. Ruthless
measures are necessary when plagues of
this sort appear. The Red rats that infest
our industries, stop coalmines, tie up
ships and put thousands out of work
are a different proposition. Their de-
structive work goes on and not a single
finger of authority is raised to stop them.
There was a coal conference in Can-
berra, the umpty-sixth such conference,
but nothing much was said about it, pos-
sibly because it has at last dawned on
Canberra that people have no more
faith in coal conferences. However,
Playford was there, in search of an assur-
ance that his State would get enough
coal from N.S.W. to “tide it over the
Easter holidays.” He got the assurance,
but not the coal. All Adelaide suburban
trains had to be cancelled for the first
three Easter days and domestic gas users
had to put up with a 90-minutes supply
on Saturday, Sunday and Monday; be-
sides which, radio and tram services were
curtailed. You would almost think S.A.
was being punished for rejecting “Labor.”
According to the A.L.P. man Ormonde,
whom “S.M. Herald” puts up once a week
to state “ ‘Labor’s’ case,” “not enough
recognition is given to the efforts indus-
trial ‘Labor’ is waging to establish peace
in industry.” Ormonde is wrong. The
people are giving it full recognition, as
“Labor” candidates discovered in W.A.
and S.A. and will shortly discover in
Queensland and N. S. Wales.
The N.S.W. Full Court was not long in
deciding unanimously and emphatically
that W. G. Magrath should be granted a
new trial of the case in which Justice
Owen had directed the jury, on a tech-
nical point, to find against him (B.
5/3/’47). Nevertheless, the “Govern-
ment” at Canberra is preparing, at
the taxpayers’ expense, and in de-
fiance of a verdict vindicating one
injured taxpayer’s rights as a free
citizen, to appeal against that verdict,
“if necessary, to the Privy Council.” For
once it is up against a man who can
fight, “if necessary, to the Privy
Council.” The great majority of tax-
payers are not in this position, and such
of them as are the victims of excessive
powers unjustly exercised have to take
what their masters prescribe for them.
“What great events from trivial causes
spring!” The Greek King George died
suddenly last week, and as a result our
Court had to go into mourning. So
although His Excellency Mr. W. J. Mc-
Kell had arranged to quit Yarralumla
for Admiralty House, Sydney, during the
Doncaster-and-Cup period he couldn’t be
at Randwick to lunch with the A.J.C.
committee and condole with his young
friend Browning the bookmaker on the
defeat of Rotten Idea—the Browning loss
was £5OOO, according to one paper ;
£lO,OOO, according to another. When His
Excellency was a mere “Labor”
Premier he worked himself into a great
state of admiration for the owner of
Rotten Idea, who, he stated, had given
£lO,OOO or £12,000 to a hospital—-he
didn’t mention that Mr. Browning could
claim the gift as an exemption from tax-
able income. Mr. Browning has since
had the worse of an argument with the
Taxation Commissioner on the score of
a massive “understatement.”
For the 90 N.S.W. Assembly seats 217
candidates nominated, and eight members,
five “Labor” and three C.P., were elected
unopposed. Among them are Education
Minister Heffron (Botany), C.P. leader
Bruxner (Tenterfield) and Watterson
(Sturt), who beat Horsington in the pre-
selection ballot. Ten women are in the
field, two of them members: Mrs. Quirk
(Lab., Balmain) and Mrs. Fowler (Lang
Labor, Newtown). Their prospects are
good, but no better than those of Mrs.
Harvey (C.P.), who is making an obvious
impression on the people of Dubbo,
normally a borderline country electorate.
Stalin’s refusal to allow the 15 Russian
wives to join their British husbands is
just one more manifestation of the
Oriental despotism that masquerades
under the title of the Workers’ Father-
land. But Joe’s reply to Foreign Minister
Bevin’s personal plea for a permit for
the unfortunate women suggests that he
has been studying the Chifley technique
of passing the buck. He said such per-
mits could be “granted only by the
Supreme Soviet? Leftists throughout
the world, a humorless breed, will
doubtless accept that one without a
smile.


Poor Mrs. Rydge,
She went to the frig.
To get some potatoes and duff;
But all she espied
On looking inside
Was a vile and inedible tough.
“Put your grievances in the refrigerator, at least till the State elections are over.”— Colwell to the workers in N-. S. Woles, with Queensland to copy.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“L.P.”: Our unit was only about 40
strong but we, too, had kit inspections
every time some trivial article happened
to be mislaid. Results were nil until
L.A.C. Drongo on one of the frequent
“do-overs” (a fountain-pen had dis-
appeared from the orderly-room) was
found to be in possession of a spoon,
two table knives and a fork not shown
on his card. Our O.C. let off properly.
“It’s miserable rats like you who, by
stealing from their mates, bring dis-
credit on the service,” he fumed. “But,
sir,” pleaded Drongo, “I didn’t steal from
my mates. I wouldn’t be so low. I
took that stuff from the sergeants’ mess.”
* * * *
“Hep-2-3-4” at the Sydney Show:
Livestock exhibits, I was told, were up—
samples, I found from personal experience,
were decidedly down. This is no help to
one whose juvenile family’s howls, if he brought
them home a Hereford steer, could only be
surpassed if he didn’t turn up With the little
bags of novelties. However, I was luckier than
some, and with all the Showground’s streets
still photographically recorded on my mind
from sweeping them while in the Army, I
managed to track down some samples at last.
They were lighter in weight than before the
war but were balanced by a proportionally
heavier cost. Suitably equipped, I proceeded
to make my way around the grounds, and
found that things started coming back "on me.
The first was the dinner just consumed at one
of the cafeterias. Surely none but an Army
cook could concoct an atrocity like that. A
recent faux pas in “S. M. Herald’s” Column 8,
which stated: “Pigs are back in the pavilion
where thousands spent their first night in the
Army,” caused me to remember that my own
first night was'in the comparatively posh sur-
roundings of the Dog Pavilion. 1 headed there
last week and found a massive Great. Dane to
be the’ present occupant, snoring contentedly,
and looking far more at home than at least
one of the former tenants. With his prize-*
ribbon attached, he slept in happiness. Not
for him was the task of polishing his “rookie”
boots until they looked like those of veterans
and then belied his newly-issued uniform. Nor
was he worried by the fear that at any moment
he might collect some herculean “fatigue”
which would bring ruin to the spinebashing he
had planned. I looked around at some of the
other bunks. “Long” Harry’s claim had been
restaked by a Pekinese. Poor old “Blue” was
now two panting bulldogs. The lump that
formed in my throat as I picked up my samples
to leave happily proved soluble at the nearest,
just as it had when I hopped the fence and
sought the same solace five years ago.
/ * * * *
“Col M.”: Crediting the Japanese
war-lords with the hides of calloused
rhinoceroses, I doubt if even they can
talk their way out of the War Crimes
trials. When the last count was made,
over 4,000,000 words of evidence had
piled up against Hideki Tojo and his 24
top associates. Statements of 102 witnesses,
signed affidavits of more than 1000
others, and 1100 pieces of documentary
evidence have been presented to the
tribunal,, which has on its establishment
11 Judges, 50 prosecuting attorneys and
23 defence attorneys. Court reporters at
the trials can expect to suffer Pitman
elbow until the proceedings conclude. All
the reams of notes so far have been of
charges—the defence is still to come, and
from Hideki and Co. it should be ex-
ceptionally long and flowery.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Who pinched the Exhibi-
tion Building organ, the largest in Mel-
bourne? Except for its impressive fa?ade,
in front of which Melba and other
famous singers have sung, it has wholly
vanished. A few disjointed pipes which
look as if an atomic bomb had hit them
lie in their own dust at the back of the
ponderous instrument, but most of the
fittings have gone, including the manuals,
and any organist who could get a note
out of it would be a magician. Nobody
knows who got away with the thing, not
even the trustees, and the depredations
might have started in 1913, which is the
last time the pipes made music. Lead
and other metals were scarce in the last
two wars, which may be an explanation
of the most remarkable burglary in the
city’s history. •
* * * *
■ “A-8.5.”: World War I produced
many stories of lives saved by Bibles
carried on the person. I know of one
case where the Bushman’s Bible per-
formed the same service. A postal
orderly with mail-bag slung over shoul-
der was going up Shrapnel Gully with
First Divvy letters from home. A sniper
had a crack at him with a high velocity
bullet. It pierced the mail-bag, passed
through several letters and came to rest
“Give me a go, Tony —YOU’LL never hit her!”
in a copy of The Bulletin. The paper,
dated February 25, 1915, was addressed
to a soldier who had already fallen. I
still have it, unopened with wrapper un-
broken, and complete with Turkish
bullet.
*** . *
“Ramac”: We spotted the 'six Liber-
ators coming in over the sea, and then
the siren went. The wharf was teeming
with Chinese and Jap coolies, and the
first bombs were dropped a mile away be-
fore somebody noticed that the place was
deserted. Even our guards had ske-
daddled. The next bombs were too close
for comfort, so we dived for the nearest
shelter, precipitated into a stinking mass
of yabbering Orientals by the blast of
another explosion. The planes were
directly overhead when we came out
again gasping in the dust-laden, powder-
acrid air. Crrrrrump, crrrrump, errrump!
—very close. “From now on,” said
Blue, “I’ll take my chance on top, until
the boys start dropping gas bombs.”
* * + *
“Harold Hardupp”: My friend, who
was known as “The man from Hong-
kong” at the pub we both favored, was
farewelled there by people who thought
they were seeing the last of the genial
chap ; but, exuding prosperity, he is back
again. He had indicated that he hoped
to pick up some fragments of his pos-
sessions in Hongkong ; actually he ex-
perienced no difficulty in recovering the
lot. And among the things that have hap-
pened to him has been the sale of his
home for something like ten times the
pre-war value. The population of the
place has more than doubled ; people
lousy with money have poured into the
settlement, and the bidding for housing
is more fantastic than the brightest
dreams of Australian blackmarketeers.
Trading is as fantastic. Goods are pour-
ing in, too, at cheap prices, from China,
which have no.relation at all to the prices
they are fetching in other parts of the
world. The man from Hongkong has
got out with his money, which still seems
as unreal to him as a hatful of sweep
prizes. He reckons the Hongkong boom
is a bubble that will burst; and he likes
living in Australia, anyway.
* * * *
“F.S.”; What looks like the biggest
buying year in the history of the Felton
Bequest began with the purchase of the
first Rubens to come to the National Gal-
lery in Melbourne. It’s a fierce, restless pic-
ture depicting Antaeus, the wrestler who
was invincible while his feet were on the
ground, receiving a fall from Hercules,
and it cost £3750 ; surprisingly little for
a good Rubens. That artist was a phe-
nomenon. , He not only conducted a
thriving artistic business and built palaces,
but acted as Ambassador to the Court of
Spain for his patroness, the Regent of the
Netherlands, and while in the thick of
diplomatic business continued to paint
enormous pictures, even copying several
of Velasquez’s paintings when he was in
Madrid. Van Dyck was one of his ap-
prentices, and stayed with him 15 years.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Soldiers standing
firm (B. 12/3/’47)? Sixth Divvy p.-0.-w.
at a Stalag were refusing to work,
and the Hun commandant had lined them
up before a tommy-gun squad. He re-
peated a lot of offers, enticements, threats
and warnings, and finally commenced to
count —in English. “One, two” The
men were half-starved, many were ill.
One sign of weakening would have
cracked the entire line’s morale. “Hold
it, mob,” The voice was that of a pri-
vate near one end of the line. “Three!”
Not a man moved. The guns remaiped
silent. Then, in a towering rage, the
commandant withdrew his gunmen/leav-
ing victory with the near-breaking Aus-
tralians, who still don’t know whether he
actually weakened at the last moment or
had been staging a bluff.
* * * *
“Hist”: The proposal to issue a stamp
to mark Princess Elizabeth’s 21st birth-
day by no means breaks new ground in
philatelic royal portraiture. As far
back as 1932 Newfoundland showed the
six-year-old princess on a six-cents
stamp, and again two years later on a
four-cents value. She appeared on the
one-cent value of Canada’s George V
jubilee issue of 1935, and it is among
these stamps that philatelists seek a
variety known as the “weeping princess.”
A spot of color on one stamp in the
sheet has the appearance of a tear on
the princess’s cheek. A charming stamp
depicting both royal, lasses was issued by
Canada on the occasion of the royal
visit in 1939 ; printed in black and green,
it has the effect of a delicate miniature.
If only our postal authorities would take
it as an example! The present royal
visit to South Africa has also occasioned
a stamp showing both princesses. Com-
ing nearer home, Maoriland used their
portraits as motifs for its health stamps
in 1943 and 1944, All these stamps have
had wide collector appeal, so the Com-
monwealth’s venture should show a nice
profit from collector-sales —enough, say,
to pay for the vice-regal Rolls-Royce.
* * * ♦
“Slingsby”: The recalling of the trick
of striking a wax-match on the leg of
one’s pants (B. 12/3/’47) brings back
a memory of a barmaid of the not-so-
Naughty ’Nineties. Sheltered behind her <
bar counter Hebe would raise her ankle-
length skirt, rfest her foot on the under-
counter shelf, and with a deft stroke
ignite a match on her knee-length calico
unmentionables, much to the delectation
of a male audience, which inwardly con-
gratulated itself on witnessing about as
risque a thing as was possible for a girl
to do. But, really, what dear modest
creatures those barmaids were—for the
match-striking Hebe didn’t use the lucifer
to light a cigarette. Had she done that
her boss might have expected a riot in
his bar.
“Ex-C.G.”: Splitting a match into four
usable igniters was a stunt we kids learned
almost as soon as safety-razor blades
appeared. As for adults, I had it demon-
strated to me in hospital in 1928 by a
patient from a prison farm. I knew
the trick even then, but that young
man went one better—he showed me how
to carry a razor blade stuck to a piece
of chewing-gum under a boot.
* * * *
“Silker”: This talk of restoring the
tombs of the deservedly famous dead (B.
2/4/’47) reminds me of the somewhat
melancholy fact that in Australia
notoriety rather than fame is more likely
to keep a name before succeeding genera-
tions. Ask the first few persons you meet
(a) who was Edmund Barton or Albert
Jacka and (b) who was Ned Kelly and
you’ll see what I mean. There is a
pointed reminder of this in our town. Its
pioneers and its meh of local renown lie
in the cemetery with others; the best-
kept, most frequently Jooked-at and
most frequently mentioned grave is the
one which contains the dust of Ben Hall.
♦ * * ♦
“Uco”: I don’t like paying high rent
and I groan every time I make out my
weekly cheque for two quid for the privi-
lege of occupying a humble suburban
cottage, so when I read in Sydney
“Tribune” that “Soviet housing regula-
tions ensure that no worker pays more
than 4\ p.d. of his wages for rent,” I
was moved to say “Hurrah for Joe.” The
article went on to explain that rent was
based on floor space excluding kitchens,
bathrooms and hallways, the highest rate
being about Is. 4d. per square metre
and the lowest 7d. 1 decided to work
out my own rent on that basis to see
just how much the landlord was fleecing
me. Excluding k., b. and hs. my dwelling
occupies about 1000 square feet —call it
93 square metres. This works out at just
over sd. a square metre I am paying my
capitalistic landlord —tuppence a time
less than the Soviet wage-plug forks out.
On the “Tribune’s” figures a hou’se similar
to mine would cost Ivan Moscovski at
least £2 14s. 3d., but as this is only 4\
p.c. of his weekly screw he’d hardly miss
it out of his pay envelope of £6O ss. 6d.
I’m sure the “Tribune” wouldn’t make a
misstatement, but there must be a catch
in it somewhere, probably in the diffi-
culty in finding a Soviet toiler with more
than one room in which to house his
whole family.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Though he’d never have
dared to admit it while seeking votes from
his comrades of the working class, it
seems our Gee Gee is just as anxious
as anyone else to prove he has blue
blood or something in his veins. Any-
how, the London correspondent of an
Australian newspaper asserts that the
Scottish Ancestry Research Council in
Edinburgh has been tracing Billy’s genea-
logy at his request. The S.A.R.C. hasn’t
been supremely successful, for though an
admiring reporter declares that the Gee
Gee can “look back upon a highly re-
spectacle Scottish ancestry dating back to
the eighteenth century,” the only proof
offered is that a certain Robert Pollock
McKell, a small farmer, had a son
Thomas, who emigrated to Australia in
1838. This, so they say, was either the
Gee Gee’s great- or great-great-granfer.
Come back to earth, Thackeray, and write
some more “Snob Papers!”
* * * *
“Gawler Road”: I note that a bunch
of Adelaide students have held a tug o’
war by stretching a 150 yd. rope across
the Torrens, each team pulling from the
opposite bank and the losers being those
first pulled into the water. It might well
be named the Australian Tug o’ War,
for, heaven help us, we all seem to be
trying to pull each other into a mess.
* * * »
“Spoke”: Lecture-giving (B. 26/3/’47)
has been elevated to a fine art in U.S.
I once attended a lecture in Sydney by
a woman globe-trotter. Entitled “My
Impressions of the Sistine Chapel,” it
was a charming, intimate description of
the lecturer’s feelings, with some almost
personal recollections of Renaissance
giants thrown in. A few weeks later I
was in Melbourne and dropped in at an-
other lecture. A different lady was lec-
turing and thfe title of her address was
“My Impressions of the Sistine Chapel.’
It was word for word the same as the
Sydney example. There are bjureaux in
■the States which will supply for a small
fee informative addresses on anything,
from the Social Habits of the Amoeba to
the Love Affairs of Richard Wagner.
AT LEAST.
“The -workers of New South Wales will be well
advised to put their grievances in the refrigerator,
at least until the State elections are over.”— Calwell.
In ordinary times he’d not be chiding
Those who down tools or reprimanding them.
He doesn’t ask them to be law-abiding
Uninterruptedly but just pro tern.,
In other words, until the last deciding
Vote has been registered at 8 p.m.
Upon the third of May, the destined date
For settling who shall run the Mother State.
You workers, cease the way you’re always
raving .
Of real or fancied wrongs, is his advice.
Think of the votes to comrades you’ll be saving
By putting noisy grievances on ice.
A few brief weeks’ impeccable behaving
Is surely not too burdensome a price
To pay if by such self-denial you’ll
Ensure another term of Labor tule.
Think of electors day by day confronting
Fresh hardships that they never knew of yore,
And with a natural desire for shunting
Those whom they hold responsible therefor,
WhoTe just as likely to go scapegoat-hunting
In days of peace as in the years of war
By the one means for disillusioned souls
To indicate resentment —at the polls.
Quit bucking Arbitration Courts and setting
Class against class, and bottle up your bile.
The present clearly is the time for letting
Wisely alone, although it cramp your style,
Industrial upheavals, not forgetting
It’s only for a very little while.
And contumacious pranks should be deferred
TUI polling-booths are closed on May the third.
Just now, in Calwell’s view, you’ll make a
blooming
Error and forfeit for your side a host
Of votes by any of that furious fuming
’Gainst law and order of which Commos
boast.
But after the event —that is, assuming
Your crowd returns once more to rule the
roast —
The inference is that you’ll be free to strike
As early and as often as you like.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: Two Auckland (M.L.) butchers
have been charged with causing “unneces-
sary suffering” to a greyhound, it
allegedly being full of fleas. Far from
warranting prosecution, the cleaver-
wielders’ indulgence merits nothing but
praise. Look at any pampered Peke that,
dusted regularly with perfumed D.D.T.,
is forced to lead a flealess existence. It
looks even more miserable than Calvell
when there’s not a packed reffo ship in
the offing. I am master to a middle-aged
,tyke who, though he merely grunts good-
humoredly when I roll him over on his
back and massage his belly with my boot,
and grins'when I pull his ears, is, I am
proud to record, something of a larrikin
outdoors. Yet the obvious delight which
suffuses his homely, whiskered dial after
he has cleaned up a few neighboring
cats and fellow canines is as nothing to
his look of pure bliss as he sits precari-
ously on one section of his rump while
he plays the fiddle on himself. If further
proof is wanted that he wouldn’t part
with his fleas for the world, I simply refer
to the look of deep reproach he bends
on me when he sees me get the bathtub
and soap out at the week-end, and his
immediate reaction in sneaking under the
couch.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Feeding Wirths’ elephants is
a costly business, but no pachyderm ever
had as expensive a meal as a team of
goats belonging to the Greatest Show on
Earth did. Finding themselves amongst
a strange, exotic, colorful and dazzling
display of living vegetable-matter which
must have made them think they had died
and entered the goats’ heaven, they kept
on munching until an attendant caught
them at it. They had strayed into the
Garden Week exhibition, amongst the
prize delphiniums, gerberas, tigridia
hybrids, lilium durations, fuchsias, vallo-
tas and colchicums, some of them worth
a guinea a blossom.
* * * ♦
“Q.Q.”: The suggestion that C. J.
Dennis plagiarised an American poet in
his Sentimental Bloke, denied by Gu£
Innes (B. 26/3/’47) with Dennis’s own
"This club' s going to pot — look , hats!”
statement that he hadn’t read his alleged
mspirfer until he was told about him, re-
minds me of my own case. I wrote a
!l or y from the East for the old “Lone
anc * to m y surprise Arthur Adams
billed me as “Australia’s Joseph Conrad.”
In my youth I had a sniffish attitude to-
wards contemporary novelists, and I had
•
never read a line of Conrad. I promptly
bought the entire set of his works and
avidly read every word of his succeeding
output. Subsequently another editor re-
turned a batch of my stories with the
comment “Don’t want secondhand
Conrad,” and I am afraid I have never
got the Polish writer wholly out of my
system.
* * * *
“G.S.H.”: Plastic surgery is generally
regarded as a modern development, but
nearly 50 years ago a Melbourne surgeon,
Dr. William Moore, did a lot of practi-
cal work in this field. As a junior assist-
ant in the main operating theatre at the
old Melbourne Hospital, I had many
opportunities of seeing the work of Dr.
Moore and other outstanding surgeons
of the day. I recall one case that created
much interest, the patient being a young
man who had been kicked in the face by
a horse and whose nose was completely
destroyed. Dr. Moore performed a
series of operations spread over several
months. The first was to clean up the
fragments and prepare a base on which
to transplant the flesh for a new nose.
Flesh was obtained from the upper por-
tion of the arm, and remained semi-
detached until the graft had grown to
the prepared section between the eyes—
and what a masterpiece of bandaging it
was for the arm to be held in position
across the face until the graft had taken!
Half the new nose was thus provided,
and the same procedure followed with
the other arm and transfer of flesh to the
face. The two sections of flesh were
sewn together and nostrils shaped over
moulds, which from memory were of vul-
canite ; then a “V”-shaped section of
skin was brought down from the fore-
head over the nose and replaced with
skin removed from one of the patient’s
legs. I saw him on the day he was dis-
charged, and he was able to take his
place in the community without any sense
of inferiority; a tribute to his fortitude
as well as to the enterprise and skill of
the surgeon.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: It is certain that Beet-
hoven’s Sonata in C Major never had
such a unique interpolation as that ex-
perienced at a recital given by Lily Kraus
in Auckland (M.L.). Lily was in the midst
of the famous sonata when she threw
up her arms and shrieked. Then she
brushed something from her neck, turned
round and smiled at the audience and
continued her playing. She had been
bitten by a weta, a beetle with a par-
ticularly vicious bite.
* ♦ Jf:
“Curate’s Egg”: Air Force “types” (B,
26/3/’47) certainly organised. The
wall maps in ops. rooms of some R.A.F.
squadrons in Britain were studded with
colored tabs. To the uninitiated these
would have appeared as markers of sig-
nificant areas in the operational scheme
of things. To the initiated they were top
secret beacons pointing to pubs where the
beer was good, the colors denoting the
quality of the beer or the service. Cer-
tain pubs were by gentleman’s agreement
deemed the preserves of particular squad-
rons. The newly-posted man was ex-
pected to study his wall-charts; trespass-
ing on a sister-squadron’s pubddrn placed
him beyond the pale.
* * * *
“Macnell”: Most sailors know the
stoker who, a bit out of station, opened
the breech of a four-inch gun in Mel-
bourne to show his popsy “where the
bullet went,” and found he couldn’t shut
it. He overcame his diffi-
culty with an airy “She’s
right! All breeches are left
open till sunset.” On April
10 five years ago a pom-
pom’s crew, all stokers,
wiped out the stain. De-
stroyer Vampire was fight-
ing for her life in the Bay
of Bengal, Already Jap
dive-bombers had planted
their armor-piercing loads
on the carrier Hermes’
flight-deck and blown her
to the bottom. Then it was
Vampire’s turn. The first
plane pulled out at 1500 ft.
and landed his bombs just
off the stern. The next
stick shot over the bridge,
narrowly missed the whaler,
and washed her upper-deck
with its explosive splash.
In charge of the pom-pom
was the chief stoker, a
veteran of Greece and Crete.
He was watching for a good
target. There came sud-
denly the screaming wail of
a diving plane. As it pulled
out of its dive a crash of cannon shells
and bullets slashed into the sea hundreds
of yards ahead. The fighter whipped over
in a tight turn and came driving in again,
grey balls of smoke breaking from his
nose and wings. Still the stokers waited.
Then as he pulled his nose up, exposing
his dirty underbelly, they opened fire.
The lines of tracers reached out and
nailed him. With a slewing rush the Jap
hit the water, bounced, hit again, and dis-
solved into a shapeless mass of fire that
shot over the sea like snakes’ tongues.
Under punishing conditions as exacting
as any experienced gunners have had to
face, those stokers kept their gun firing,
in the finest gunnery traditions, till, ripped
“Now Madam may Wear the new
padded hips!”
apart, the game little ship settled under
the sea.
♦ * * ♦
“X.S.”; The conscious wit of the Gent
Ones is sometimes surpassed by the art-
less humor of the layman. Asked by
counsel whether his evidence couldn’t be
described as unusual, a witness at South
Melbourne retorted; “.Yes; I’m telling
the truth.”
* « * %
“Becks”: I don’t know whether Chif.
was listening in when the Quizmaster
asked his victims what the J, B. stood
for in the Prime Minister’s name, but if
he was he would hardly have been flat-
tered at the lack of knowledge on the
part of people who could probably have
reeled off the Christian names of film
stars and jockeys as readily as they could
their own. First guess was John Benja-
min, then John Benedict, next James
Benedict. There was a lull then and
listeners could almost hear the sands of
time running out. Then just as the gong
sounded an optimist piped up with John
Bonaventure.
* * * *
“Plop”: “Are you baffled by the terms
used in Parliamentary broadcasts? The
‘Listener’s Guide,’ published in the
‘Herald,’ will solve your problems.” This
enthusiastic outburst in a recent Mel-
bourne “Herald” must be the primest
piece of optimism since Mein Kampf.
By broadcasts of Parliamentary proceed-
ings, most particularly by “Question
Time,” I am completely baffled. When a
member says “Mr. Speaker, I wish to
address a question without notice to the
Honorable Minister for Circumlocution,”
he receives a long-winded answer, obvi-
ously coming from prepared notes. So,
Mr. Speaker, I, too, would like to ask
a question. “Just what is meant by the
term ‘question without notice’?”
* ♦ * *
“Kilt”: Bagpipes have been mentioned
several times in recent Bulletins —
poetically by Douglas Stewart in “Glen-
coe” and humorously by “Angus Mc-
Bungstarter” and others. If there is such
difficulty in getting ebony and reeds for
the manufacture of pipes today, how did
the original Highlanders make their in-
struments lang syne? The model has
not been changed since the days of Ossian,
and the first samples seem to have been
equal in tone and volume to the last
releases. It is certain that as instruments
of war they were just as efficient in the
horn spoon epoch as they are in the
atomic age. And why are pipe-bands so
popular while the pipes are the most
jeered-at noise producers on earth? 1
recently viewed a procession furnished
with three brass bands and a kiltie wood-
wind orchestra. The only one that was
cheered was tartan-clad. Primitive, dis-
cordant, shrill, without a semitone or a
soft pedal, limited to one minor key,
their only accent a drum beat, the pipes
roused more enthusiasm than the stream-
lined trumpets with their infinitely varied
nuances and harmonies.
» * * «
“Gambas”: My vote for incompetence
goes to the Services Inquiry Branch of
the Army. In 1945 I deposited at the
kit store at Central Station, Sydney, a
case containing two modern laminated
flatbows and another case containing two
sets of target arrows. Next day, when
I called to collect the gear, one bow and
one set of arrows had gone; their value
was £B. I reported the theft and gave
a minute description of the missing gear,
down to the number of threads of flax
in the string and the color of the crests
on the arrow shafts. It was the sort of
job a civil police force would hand to
a junior constable; the thief
must have been hanging
round the kit store, must
have been seen carrying away
something nearly 6ft. long,
and must have known some-
thing of archery, as he had
taken the best bow and the
set of arrows which went with
it —they weren’t on the top
of the case but at the bot-
tom. But what did the 5.1.8.
do? Promised to make
“every effort to ascertain”
and a few days later an-
nounced that it had recovered
the missing property. It
sent me at great cost through
the m.f.o. a long wooden case
corded like a treasure chest,
and when I opened it I found
inside a rotten little native
bow with a rattan string, of
the type made by the innocent
Boong to sell to the troops.
It bore.about as much re-
semblance to my bow as it
did to a Catalina flying-
boat. When I pointed this
out to the 5.1.8. I again re-
ceived a promise about “every
effort to ascertain,” but I still
haven’t got my bow.
* * *
“Hamer”: Recent C.S.I.R. experi-
ments in rainmaking were by no means
the first in Australia. Years ago at the
urging of some theorist the Government
of the day decided to see what the army
could do in a case of national emergency
caused by drought. A battery of artillery
was sent to Broken Hill to loose some
special types of shells at the heavens. An
initial failure was followed by'a period
of waiting for clouds to act as targets —a
heartbreaking business in that area. At
last some prOmising-looking clouds
loomed up; the mayor and dignitaries
were warned, and the battery galloped
spectacularly into action. There was a
lot of noise but no rain; in fact some
of the locals declared that the clouds
which might have normally yielded some
rain were frightened away.
» * * «
“Sucker”: As one who has spent a
small fortune over the years trying to
drop cane rings over brummy clocks on
hoop-la stands, I let out a whoop of joy
when police at Adelaide Show ordered
the proprietors of the joints to cut down
the wooden blocks on which the prizes
repose. “Never give a sucker an even
break” is an O. Henry axiom that has
been practised since the world began,
but it can be made too hot and any
devotee of hoop-la knows that, in later
years, his chances of ringing anything
have been reduced to an absurd mini-
mum. Another practice worth watching
is the smartness with which the bloke
running the joint can whip off a ring
which, by some defiance of the mathe-
matical laws of diameter and circum-
ference, has’encircled prize and pedestal
before the thrower has a chance to see
whether he landed the bacon or not.
Which reminds me of Bindertwine, who
came in from the Mallee scrubs to Hope-
toun show one year, spent about a quid
trying to ring a clock worth Is. 9d.,
rung it and had his feat denied by the
ring-seller. Bindertwine went through
that joint like a cyclone and, when the
police finally sorted out the wreckage,
emerged torn and bleeding, firmly clutch-
ing his clock. It awoke him to few more
Mallee mornings—a few months later he
came out of second Buljecourt and died
of wounds.
W • ♦ •
“Shopkeeper”: The stranger asked me
to cash a cheque for six pounds. He ex-
plained that he was second officer of a
cargo boat, had missed his ship and was
out of funds. The cheque was drawn on a
London bank and I suggested that he
leave it with me and return again in half
an hour. I then stepped across the street
to the bank and the manager, advising
me not to cash the cheque, went to the
police. When the stranger returned to
my shop a constable escorted him to the
station. Next morning he called again
and informed me that the police were
quite satisfied with his explanations. He
again tendered his cheque. I reasoned
that had he been dishonest he would
not have returned after being examined
by the police, so I cashed the cheque
without further question. It proved to be
a stumer.
A GALLUP STRAW.
"At a Gallup poll, taken to get a line on public
oninion about a reported movement at Canberra in
favor of raising legislators’ salaries, 50 per cent,
voted that £lOOO a year was enough and 41 per cent,
that it was too much.”
Revealing things, these Gallup polls,
Annoying too, it’s safe to say,
To quite a lot, of worthy souls
Who’re wishful of a rise in pay.
They’ll reckon it a trifle tough
To learn their present screw is such
As five in ten account enough,
And four in ten pronounce too much.
A thou, a year in solid dough,
With perks and travel on the nod,
Was reckoned, not so long ago,
A singularly handsome wad.
Your seat was deemed by those who set
You there an enviable berth.
The trouble is, the more you get,
The more you seem to think you’re worth.
Take heed, you Senators and Reps.
Who hold your worth too low assessed,
The time has come to watch your steps
And give this horseleech game a rest.
Straws show the way the wind may be
And, apropos your latest roles,
The same significance you’ll see
As straws provide, in Gallup polls.
Are you already reimbursed
Well for the jobs wherein you star
Or twinkle? Well, to put it first,
Full five in ten opine you are.
Another four dissent, because
They’re just as sure the tin you touch
For helping frame your country’s laws
Is not too little —but too much.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


DIESEL FUEL
INJECTION EQUIPMENT
Anticipating the demand for a Diesel Fuel Injection Service
in Australia, PYROX PTY., LTD., many years ago established
service facilities in all States, thus making possible the rapid
development of Diesel power in this country.
In all capital cities, repair and maintenance services and spares
for all leading makes of British, American 'and Continental
Fuel Injection Equipment are provided by PYROX. Injection
parts not obtainable through ordinary trade channels will be
manufactured by PYROX according to specification.
Py
TOX DIESEL INJECTION SERVICE
IN SYDNEY - - - - PYROX PTY., LTD.
Australian Enterprise Australian Skill Australian Achievement
V
f#
r
/fVf
NrfSa
a
r>
Cv
Cfc
•-/-':
VC
-j
U
m
sa
CONSOLE MODEL 327
Five Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
TABLE MODEL 847
Four Valve Dual Wave
(Vibrator Operated)
Without electricity . . , you can bring the
choice of the world’s programmes to your
home. These new. Dual Wave Receivers
maintain the high level of performance asso-
ciated with the famous “His Master’s Voice”
Qr|n mn«|r
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
true-to-lif e RADIO
Ask your nearest H.M.V. retailer to demonstrate
these new H.M.V. radios.
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Incorporated in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
... eliminate
the main cause
excess URIC ACID
with
8/H PHIS
Rheumatism is often caused through Weak
Kidneys permitting excess uric acid to
escape and collect in the system.
Correct this condition-—help your Kidneys
back to proper functioning by taking
GIN PILLS.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills act directly on the
Kidneys, stimulating their action, reliev-
ing inflammation. They quickly help your
Kidneys to work normally again, filtering
out accumulated poisons from your body,
and so bring relief from Rheumatic pains.
27 pills, 1/9—60 pills, 2/9.
DR. SHELDON'S
ŵ
Don’t put up with Rheuma-
tism any longer—get quick
relief by taking a course of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
3m mm
l* , / jr; y%
•■• f
THE SERVICE MAN.
A Job and a Communist.
“Ek Dum”: On March 7, Mr. J. P.
Abbott moved the adjournment of the
House of Representatives to secure dis-
cussion of the dangers inherent in allow-
ing Communist scientists to operate in
bodies in which they could obtain in-
formation of value to Soviet Russia.
On March 27 Mr. Abbott asked Mr.
Dedman whether Arthur William Rudkin,
a bachelor of science, was employed in a
research post in the Forest Products Divi-
sion of the C.S.I.R. in Melbourne;
whether Rudkin had been a member of
the Communist party (W.A. branch) and
editor of its Westralian organ, the
“Worker’s Star,” which was suppressed as
subversive in 1940; and whether he had
been sentenced to a term of imprisonment
in Westralia. Mr. Dedman replied in the
affirmative to all these questions.
“Our Leader”
At the end of May, 1940, Communist
newspapers were suppressed for their
“Digging a bit deep, aren't you ?”
attitude of surrender, their attacks on
Britain and their support of Russia, as
Poi . m „ n „, c „ r
oermany s partner.
In Maoriland, early in June, 1940, four
prominent members of the party were
v , , , . n . r . •' .
sentenced to terms of imprisonment,
ranging up to nine months, for seditious
utterances.
T r, rwr a \ i, *u a
In Perth (W.A.) the same week,
police raided Communist h.q. at the
Radical Bookshop and seized the papers
of William Dean, (he State secretary.
Among those papers was a letter m
which Dean stated that he recognised
Stalin as his leader and teacher There
were also a black notebook and various
loose documents.
Dean was charged before Mr, Wall-
work, P;M., With being in possession of
information which might be directly used
by the enemy and with issuing a docu-
ment, a circular, to branches of the local
Communist party which contravened
thp National Cruritv Art
tne National security Act.
Mr. Lappin, for the Crown, said that
the charges were “the most serious and
grave which had occupied the attention
of the W.A. Courts since the outbreak.”
In the Black Book
In the defendant’s possession, in the
black notebook already referred to, was
found the following entry: —
First A.I.F. (evergreens). Shoulder
green square with black centre, evergreen
SSS < S,°e f ,a S 'and
B companies are already formed, about 150
men in each company. C Coy to be formed
shortly; most machine-gunners. Object
of forming regiment, garrison duties, to re-
lieve young men for front, but may be sent
for garrison duty abroad. A and B eniisted
chiefly from unemployed, and physical fit-
ness is not marked, but no doubt will im-
prove with good food and other con-
ditions. C Coy composed of men of better
stamp- Ah qu i ck iy fall again into military
life. Quite a large proportion of C Cby
were previously n.c.os., and therefore the
best from a militaristic point of view. They
are composed of men of all types and arms
—infantry, artillery, cavalry, air force, etc.
—and are therefore conversant with all
types of arms, though they have yet to
learn recent improvements in arms, methods
and organisation. Possibly C Coy when
formed will be most useful as being mostly
machine-gunners. A and B Coys have
men experienced in trades unionism and
unemployment, are not particularly im-
perialistic and some would certainly jib
at taking part in industrial trouble. The
question arises as to whether C Coy would
be used to force them if necessary.
At this point Mr. Lappin ceased quot-
ing to the Court, but stated that the con-
tinuing entries in the book referred to
tanks, artillery, fortifications at Rottnest,
location of guards at vital spots, move-
ments of troops, food and accommoda-
tion of troops and discipline.
The rest of the notes in the book, he
said, were “in the nature of a memoran-
dum which read”;
All information about tanks number,
size, armament, speed, range, load, arma-
ment personnel, repairs and renewals,
sources whence number can be increased,
whether from W.A. or Eastern States.
Air Force: Number and type, speed,
range, load, armament, personnel, repairs,
. renewals, other sources, landing places.
Sea Forces: Ships of war, minelayers
and sweepers, booms on Gage Roads,
personnel both naval and others, stations
Measures of co-operation
between land, sea and air forces and especi-
ally between arms of land .forces, infantry,
cavalry, artillery, tanks. How. much
motorised and mechanised? Where
stationed? What considered as vital points?
What is at Guildford? What organisational
connection with Federal leadership? What
organisational connection with civil author!-
° £ ° rBanisa,ion
There was much otter information which
cou i d not be disclosed in Court
The circular was headed “Communist
Party of Australia, West Australian
Branch; To all branches.” It was signed
by Dean ; and it began;
Comrades; The Communist International
warns that the war may spread rapidly to
the Eastern Mediterranean, the Balkans and
the Pacific. The Comintern message says
| / at workers mu^ t demand the return of
their husbands > brothers and sons. The
party mus t fight for the return of the Aus-
tralian troops abroad,
Mr. Lappin interrupted his reading at
this stage to say;
It might be of Merest that the Comintern
is now settled at h.q. in Vienna, in an
enemy country. Those were the h.q. from
ch . the inst ( uctlons were obtained,
Df interest it was. Australians were
beating back Italian troops in North
Africa. Germany was sending forces
there. And an Australian party, in link-
««? with the U.S.S.R., which was closely
allied With Hitler, was collecting detailed
information of military organisation and
„ __ f ~
passing on Comintern for the
withdrawal of the Australians who were
inconveniencing the enemies by fighting
them l
, r. . ~
Britain S Bloody Rulers
Mr. Lapp i n continued with the read-
. ~ \ . , , {l _,
in B WOids in the circular. The im-
perialists must be confronted with further


Missing Friend.
WILL ERNEST’ARTHUR GLADSTONE MICKLE,
who left New Zealand in 1913 and came to Australia,
or anybody knowing his present whereabouts please
communicate with STEPHEN JAQLES& STEPHEN,
Solicitors, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
What does their future hold?
ẁ
HOPELESSNESS or
HAPPINESS?
Hundreds of thousands of homeless and
starving men, women and children face a
bleak future in the occupied and liberated
countries of Europe. To enable them to survive,
huge sums are required for the purchase of
food, medicine, clothing and other necessities
of life. You can help to renew their faith in
mankind by giving as generously as you can
afford. Every penny is welcome in this great
cause to help the innocent homeless victims of
ravaged Europe. Please give us your help as
quickly as possible. We shall do the rest and
allocate the relief impartially where the need
is greatest.
THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
( QUAKERS )
INTERNATIONAL RELIEF COMMITTEE
in collaboration with the
OCCUPIED EUROPE RELIEF SOCIETY
Please forward your donations to
THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
N.S.W.: 119 Devonshire St., Sydney. Vic.: 20 Russell St.,
Melbourne. S.A.: c/o Mr. George Hutchesson, Box 779 G.P.0.,
Adelaide. W.A.; c/o Mr. J. H. Crosland, Albany Rd., Gosnells.
Q’LAND; c/o Mrs. H. F. Jones, Thozel Rd., Nth Rockhampton,
or Miss Kate Sauer, 8 Balaclava St., Woolloongabba. TAS.: c/o
Mrs. Ruth Erskine, Burdoc, Rosetta. N.T.: Box 48, Alice Springs.
i
'-v
/
V.
■m
i
3
'O/vTu?!... S& ca*itsfc/nd.
■youA. 6!(roCotA
Avoid the embarrassment of afternoon stubble with
Gem. Give yourself a professional skin level shave
once a day with Gem and you’ll be clean and neat all
day and evening. Buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID
3 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
ẃ
evidence of mass opposition to war with
the Soviet Union.”
Criticism of the British Government and
mSy commands, the fall of Chamberlain
and the removal of General Gamelm show
fhat military reverses will shake Govern-
ments The places of those people, how-
ever, have been taken by others who want
more war and a more intense war. Their
aim is not toward peace, but for more and
□nicker slaughter... .Australia is contro led
by lackeys of the incompetent bloody rulers
of Britain, and Australians must be brought
home. Greetings, State Executive, W.
Dean.
To see the thing in all its enormity it
is needful to realise that this was issued
just before the fall of France—issued
during a year in which Australians were
fighting and British workers were killed
in thousands by bombs and U-boat tor-
pedoes, forged in the enemy country in
which the Comintern was receiving
shelter and facilities, only 50 miles from
where the Messerschmitts were being
turned out in thousands to kill Britons
and young Australians,
“Military Intelligence’ 1 ’ ,
There was no attempt at denial beyond
a feeble plea, not persisted in, that the
documents in the black book were notes
for a speech.
Sergeant Hugh M’Lernon, of the
Security Police, gave evidence regarding
Dean’s black book:
I turned to the last page, on which were
numbers and letters, *and said to accused :
What does this refer to? Is it a code?
Is it a reference or index? He said: No.
I don’t remember what I made that for.
It is my writing but I don’t remember what
it is about.
Mr. Lappin; Actually what does it refer
to, Sergeant?
Sergt. M’Lernon: It refers to the organi-
sation of Military Intelligence.
The magistrate remarked: “There is
little doubt that the prejudice to the
safety of the country would be great if,
that got into the hands of the enemy,
and I have no doubt that it was intended
for that purpose.” And he said that he
believed the circular had been intended
to injure the Allied cause.
Then, in the mild Australian way, he
sentenced Dean to two terms of three
months’ hard labor, cumulative!
Rudkin and the A.R.P.
In Dean’s possession at Communist
headquarters, which were also the H.Q.
of the official Communist journal, the
“Star,” and of its editor, Arthur William
Rudkin, were found other documents
which led to the immediate arrest of
Rudkin, a man named Troy and Eric
Oliver Knowles —the last denied that he
was a Communist. Rudkin applied for
a remand and bail. The magistrate re-
fused bail.
Mr. Lappin, pointing to the three men
in the dock, said: “Your Worship has
heard of the Fifth Column... .There it
is.” He proceeded with Rudkin’s case:
The charge is very simple. A document
was found in possession of William Dean
and was signed by Rudkin. Rudkin ad-
mitted that it was his signature.
Rudkin was charged with having pub-
lished in a letter information which might
be useful to the enemy, contrary to Sec-
tion 10 of the National Security Act,
Regulation 17.
Parts of the letter:
Party members as air-raid wardens: 1
understand that with the exception of Com-
rade Zog and myself, the party membership
in W.A. ignored the circular advising that,
where possible, they should become air-
raid wardens. The question should be taken
up again. Victoria Park is the most ad-
vanced suburb in this work; others are
extremely short of wardens. In North Perth
there are only three wardens and over 100
required. Any party members becoming
air-raid wardens in suburbs where there is
an extreme shortage would be sure of
almost immediate promotion to the rank of
senior warden (about 20 required for each
ward). Party members not known as such
would have a fair chance of promotion to
a position that would enable them to get
more confidential information than I have
any chance of getting. The question of
A.R.P. is sure to give rise to some con-
siderable mass agitation in the event of gas
being used in the present war and we will
have a much better chance of leading this
agitation if we have plenty of men on the
inside of the organisation.
Portion of the letter was not read—it
was indicated that it dealt with gases that
might be used in air raids, the alleged
possession by Britain of a special neW
gas and methods of protection against
that gas.
Rudkin, after dealing with this matter,
had written:
I suggest that the above information be
passed on to Comrade J.B.M. [it was given
in evidence that “J.8.M.” was J. B. Miles,
general secretary of the Australian Com-
munist party] before he leaves, as it will
not be safe to send it through the mail.
He should be asked to pass the informa-
tion on to the C.P.G.B. [Central Communist
party of Great Britain] if there is
any means of sending them an uncensored
communication. I have reason to believe
that all letters going into Gt. Britain are
subject to secret censorship. Probably the
C.P.G.B. knows of the above facts; but if
so it is strange that they have not worked
out a way of making use of them... .This
information is not supposed to have been
given to any one Australian below the rank
of Deputy Head Warden, but the anti-
gas lecturer at Victoria Park passed it on
to. a group of senior wardens in strict
confidence.
“A Loyal Communist”
Portions of the document were marked
in pencil in such a way that police were
inclined to believe that this was an indica-
tion that the information had been
passed on.
Rudkin attempted no denial beyond re-
marking that the information which he
had was not new, that he had been exer-
cising the right of free speech which
“Menzies has said existed in Australia,”
that, in any case, the Communist party
was opposed to the Nazi system, and that
he had no wish to make what he had ob-
tained available to Germany. He said
that he had wished to pass the informa-
tion to the Communist party in Great
Britain to “obtain the advice of Professor
Haldane, a loyal Communist.” He ad-
mitted that he had advised party members
who joined the A.R.P. to remain un-
known, since in that way they could “do
better work from a party standpoint.”
Mr. Lappin: You were told when the
information was being given to you that
it was being given in strict confidence.
Accused: 1 believe that was the phrase
used.
Mr. Lappin: Your party’s policy is to
overthrow the Government, is it not?
Accused: So is the Labor party’s.
Mr. Lappin: You would not hesitate to
precipitate a civil war?
Accused: We would not hesitate if the
Government opposed the will of the people.
Rudkin’s wife, Ruth Rudkin, went into
the box and said that she held a degree
in science with a major in chemistry at
the University of W.A.
Mr. Lappin pointed out that Rudkin
had sent the information which he had
collected, and which had been given to
him as an air-raid warden in official con-
fidence, to another member and official
of the Communist party who was appar-
ently in communication with the Comin-
tern (in the enemy city of Vienna), and
who was engaged in collecting informa-
tion regarding guns and fortifications,
etc., “he said to help the poor unem-
ployed.”
Mr. Wallwork, P.M.:
The last paragraph deals with the white-
anting of the A.R.P. organisation by the
introduction of Communist party members
and the meaning of the concluding para-
graph [concerning mass agitation] is quite
clear. That meant the seizing of control
by the Communists when morale was at
its lowest, that is, during an air-raid.
He sentenced Rudkin to four months’
hard labor. Thereupon Mr. Lappin said
that the question had been asked what
the authorities would do after such sen-
tences, had expired. Recommendations
would be made for internment for the
duration of the war.
As Rudkin left the dock four leading
Westralian Communists rose in court,
stood to attention and gave him the
clenched-fist salute. They were arrested,
charged with contempt of court and
cautioned by the magistrate.
Suppression Follows Trials
At the end of the week during which
the trials ended —this was, of course, in
the time of the Menzies Government —
the Communist party was declared an
illegal organisation and was suppressed.
It remained suppressed until Dr. Evatt
removed the ban, after accepting pledges
which the party cynically broke from
the outset, and which everybody who
knew them knew they would break.
This Mr. Rudkin now has a Govern-
ment research job in one of the most
vital departments of war —in a de-
partment of science, which enabled
Britain to develop aeroplane plastics, to
make the Mosquito possible and to revo-
lutionise the aerial war. It is a depart-
ment full of secrets —not our own but
mainly secrets obtained from Britain and
the U.S., which the Russians would give
their ears to own, and which become
more vital and dangerous in the hands
of an enemy every day as the cult of long-
distance warfare continues. He has a
job ideal for scientific white-anting. He
has this despite his record, despite the
fact that it is clear that, in 1940, he was
so versed in overseas communications that
he was aware of the ramifications of the
British domestic censorship, as his cir-
cular showed. He got his job also in
spite of returned-soldier preference. Got
it as softly and unobtrusively as Mr.
Mountjoy, whose relative was mentioned
from the dock by one of Mr. Rudkin’s
companions of the “Fifth Column” as
“Mountjoy, the local leader of the Com-
munist party.”
The Government has a lot to explain
about this appointment and some of its
other appointments.


THE
LONG
LIFE
BATTERY
EXIDE BATTERIES STILL KEEP GOING
WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
' /
N
■v.
\W\
EXIDE BATTERIES
OF AUSTRAL!*
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
X 2.24.47.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lewis William Douglas, American
Ambassador to Britain, who was ap-
pointed when the former nominee died be-
fore taking up office, has had a varied
career. He holds degrees from eight uni-
versities and was for several years prin-
cipal and vice-chancellor of Canada’s
McGill. He left that post in 1940 to
become president of Mutual Life Insur-
ance of New York, and a couple of years
later became Deputy-Administrator of
U.S. Shipping. Earlier in life he had
tried his hand at war and politics. He
served in World War I with the A.E.F.,
and won the French Croix de Guerre.
As a politician he sat in the Arizona
House of Reps, and later went to Wash-
ington as a Congressman. In 1933 he be-
came Director of the Budget, but he dif-
fered with F.D.R. on New Deal policy
and resigned. At another stage of his
career he practised as a mining broker.
He’s 53.
Back in Perth after eight years in
London as Agent-General for W.A.,
Michael Francis Troy took over that
position after 35 years in the State
Assembly as member for Mt. Magnet.
Born 70 years ago in the Richmond
River district of N.S.W., he first entered
the Westralian Parliament in 1904. In
1911 when the Scaddan Ministry took
office he became Speaker, continuing in
that capacity under the second Wilson
Government. When the long Labor reign
began in 1924 Collier made Troy Minister
for Mines, and he held portfolios in
every Labor Government from that time
until his London appointment in 1939.
Troy has no intention of trying to re-enter
politics.
Another Agent-General who came
home in the Orion was Queensland’s
Leonard Henry Pike. Son of a Queens-
lander, he was bom in England, and has
spent nearly as much time outside Aus-
tralia as in it, though his absences have
mostly been in the service of his country
in one way or another. He fought in
the Boer War with the City of London
Rough Riders before he was 18 and
backed up for another dose in the Kaiser’s
war. In that dust-up he served with the
14th Light Horse and the 3rd Divvy
Ammunition Column. After that he was
private secretary to Queensland Premiers
and in 1927 was director of the tour of
the Duke and Duchess of York in the
northern State. Sent to the Queensland
Government’s London office, he became
Acting A.-G. in 1932 and in 1936 had the
acting tag removed. He was adviser on
sugar to the Australian delegation at the
Ottawa Conference, and again at Con-
ferences in London in 1933 and 1937.
He’s back here to report on conditions in
Britain and to brush up on local affairs.
The Joint Intelligence Bureau recently
formed to co-ordinate the eyes of the
Army, Navy and Air Force as an integral
part of the Empire defence scheme will
have as its director Lieutenant-Colonel
A. P. Fleming, of Melbourne. An Arts
graduate, he joined the A.1.F., won his
commission and served in the M.E.,
Greece and Crete and earned a couple
of ms.i.d. Later he got the 0.8. E.
for supervising Air-Army co-operation at
Pacific land headquarters. At the
moment he’s a Melbourne “Sun-Pix”
journalist.
Newly appointed successor to Harry
Robbins, M.C., as Sergeant-at-Arms in
the N.S.W. Parliament, I. P. K.
(“Snow”) Vidler went from Newington
College to the Macquarie-street Assembly
Office as junior clerk 19 years ago. An
original of the 2/17th Battalion, he
served from 1940 to 1944 before being
discharged on medical grounds. He is
the third ex-serviceman in succession to
hold the commission: Harnett (South
African War) and Robbins, M.C. (World
War I), preceded him.
The only Master of Engineering in
a very big Adelaide Uni. commemoration
of the moment is W. W. Johnstone, of
Scotch. After getting the B.E. at Adel-
aide, he gained experience in Sweden and
in Britain, and he is now in the aeron-
autics division of the C.S.J.R.
An English flood story mentions Philip
Hargrave, the one-time infant prodigy
of the piano whom the Taits toured in
pre-war days. People watching the torrent
streaming through the houses at Henley-
on-the-Thames were astounded to hear
the strains of a Liszt piece coming from
one of the half-submerged dwellings. It
tourned out to be the Adelaide pianist
sitting at a grand piano with the water
swirling around his feet.
A link with the First Fleet was broken
recently when Arthur Hope Balmain, of
Monaro, died in Parramatta as a result
of a traffic accident. He was a descendant
of Dr. William Balmain, surgeon of the
Fleet, after whom the Sydney suburb
was named. Arthur was 65 and he had
been driving motor cars almost ever
since the things were invented. His
first Car was a Zero Fiat, imported from
Italy when buses were so little thought
of that driving licences hadn’t been in-
vented. A few years later in 1904 he was
summonsed for driving a car near the
Spit Junction (Sydney) at a speed in
excess of four miles an hour. With his
brother he founded a motor firm in
Cooma in 1909; it is still going strong.
When the Prince of Wales visited the
Monaro district in 1920 Balmain acted
as chauffeur on a three-day tour of the
district. At different times in his life Bal-
main was active at Rugby, polo and skiing.
J.- H. Ackland, new member for Irwin-
Moore in the W.A. Assembly, is a South
Australian who moved to the West with
his parents as a small boy, took up
scrub land near Wongan Hills a few years
before World War One —in which he
served with the 28th Battalion—and after
years of hard toil developed it into one
of the best properties in the W.A. wheat
country. A Royal Show prize-winner for
wheatgrowing and stud stock, he is a
director of Co-operative Bulk Handling,
and a member of the Council of the
Royal Agricultural Society.
Robert Hall Chapman, depicted here
by Coventry, joined the S.A. Railways
in 1923 with a commission to design and
build a new railway bridge across the
river at Murray Bridge. He held a
master of engineering degree from Ade-
laide ’Varsity and as a captain in the
Royal Engineers had a fine record of
railway construction under difficulties;
he picked up two ms.i.d. and a brace
of wounds. Within a year he became
Chief Engineer and was responsible for
most of the work in connection with the
rehabilitation of S.A.’s railways during
the 1920’5.' During World War II he
was in charge of the construction of
munition works at Finsbury and for much
of the huge plant at Salisbury. But if
bridges are the most tangible memorials
RAILWAYS COMMISSIONER.
an engineer can build for himself, Chap-
man’s name should long be remembered.
In addition to the Murray Bridge and
scores of smaller structures all over the
State he built another railway bridge
across the Murray just below Renmark
and, more recently, the Birkenhead
Bridge, which spans the Port Adelaide
River, Last year, on the retirement of C.
B, Anderson, he became Acting Railways
Commissioner; he has now been ap-
pointed Commissioner for a seven-year
term.
“W.H.M.”: Padre John May, who has
been awarded the 0.8. E. for the
specially-good job he did while Anglican
chaplain with the
Australian forces,
hails from Tas-
mania, his father,
Canon May, being
rector of Holy
Trinity, Launces-
ton. The citation
records that the
padre’s calm cour-
age under the Jap
landing at Rabaul
dissuaded Japanese
troops from mo-
lesting or massac-
ring six nursing
sisters and 100
patients in hospi-
tal. The young
man was later re-
sponsible for ob-
taining improved
conditions for his
fellow p.-0.-w. in
Japan. He is at present in England
freshening up his theological work and
absorbing experience of church life there,
but will return to Australia later. A
product of Hutchins School and Christ
College, Hobart, he was assistant-curate
at Holy Trinity when he joined up as
chaplain.
“Becks” on some air tragedies:
At one stage last week search parties were
seeking three planes lost in Northern Australia.
All machines were found but only in one case
were there any survivors. The first craft located
was an R.A.A.F. Mosquito which crashed with
a crew of two near the top of Saddle Mountain,
a forbidding peak about 20 miles south-west of
Townsville. Search parties, their way pointed
by air-spotters, scaled the steep slopes of the
mountain to the wreckage of the plane- and
recovered the bodies of two airmen, Flight-
Lieutenants F. Langsford and G. W. Blatzloff,
both of Sydney. A second *Mosquito, one of
three N.Z. planes flying from Singapore to
Maoriland, had been missing for over a week
when a. native walked into Mbrnington Mission
Station on the Gulf of Carpentaria and re-
ported he had seen wreckage on Sunday Island,
20 miles away. A party set out from the
Mission and found that, like their colleagues
on Saddle Mountain the crew of the plane
had been killed instantly when their craft crashed.
They were Wing-Commander B. R. O. B.
Hoare, D.S.O. and Bar, D.F.C. and Bar, and
Flying-Officer J. Colvins. - Both men were
Londoners and had fought in the Battle for
Britain. A Catalina bore their bodies to Towns-
ville, where they and the two R.A.A.F. men
received a military funeral.
The third plane was a Dutch Navy Dakota,
which came down on the way from Cloncurry
to Darwin, with a crew of four and three pas-
sengers. Their story, fortunately, has a happy
ending. Forced to make a crash landing in
wild country, the pilot, Van Nesterick, managed
to put his plane down without injury to any
of her complement, then, with his wireless
operator, Van Roon, and two passengers,
Houniet and Barnaart, set out to reach civili-
station. They reached the Katherine after a
hundred-mile journey by rubber canoe down
the Katherine River and an exhausting hike
over rough country. Meanwhile R.A.A.F.
planes had located the wrecked Dakota and
instructed the remaining three men to stand by
until a rescue party arrived; a ground party
from Katherine subsequently reached them.
A reporter “covering” the Dakota story from
the air said of the four Dutchmen who set
out on the hazardous journey “it is believed
they will not get far,” and reported that search
crews were amused to see a dinghy packed
with luggage in the river near the plane, “in
which the survivors had intended to paddle to
civilisation.” Amusing or not, they got there
all right; Dutch naval men, like their fellows
of the R.N., make light of difficulties by land
as well as sea.
Frederick Lewis Edmunds, M.L.A. for
Hawthorn, who caused a storm in Vic-
torian education quarters, later trans-
ferred to the University in Melbourne, by
asserting that both institutions are riddled
by Communist influences, is himself a
teacher, though some of his verbals aren’t
exactly academic. Besides referring to
students as “dingoes,” he has called Lud
Mayor Connelly “the spokesman of the
liquor interests,” accused churches as
being “soggy with alcoholism” and
described the proposed State lottery as
the sordid exploitation of the incor-
ruptibly noble horse and dog by an ani-
mal of higher intelligence and lower
morality.” His animadversions on the
Uni. brought angry denials from Pro-
fessor R. M. Crawford and others of
the professorial body. Edmunds is 48,
shouts in the house like an Old Testament
prophet and looks like a suburban
Savonarola,
Those who know their badges of rank
may wonder what a rear-admiral and a
lieutenant-commander are doing cheek by
jowl in this Dubois sketch. The explana-
tion is simple: on the day the artist
caught them George Dunbar Moore,
ANCIENT MARINERS.
C.8.E., Rear-Admiral-in-charge H.M.A.
Naval Establishments, and Lieut-Com-
mander Harry Gordon Ker Melville
were for the moment equals in rank, hav-
ing just been initiated into membership
of that salted collection of shellbacks and
tars the Ancient Mariners. Moore,
Queensland-born, trained in the old
Qonway—he won her King’s Gold Medal
back in 1912—and served throughout
World War One in the Mediterranean,
North Sea and the Atlantic ; the last three
years of it as a lieutenant on H.M.A.S.
Melbourne. During that time Melville, a
Windsor (N.S.W.) product who went
from Geelong Naval College to join the
battleship Agincourt as a smooth-chinned
middy, was also serving on the other side
of the world. In 1930 Melville retired
from the Navy through ill-health ; Moore
was by then a commander, and his cap-
taincy came five years later. At the time
of Munich Melville rejoined the R.N.,
taught Asdic in the south of England and
became senior S.O, of First Destroyer
Flotilla, In October, 1942, he returned
to Australia to train anti-sub. personnel,
and is now in temporary command at
Rushcutter depot. Moore was in com-
mand of Dauntless when Hitler’s war be-
gan, transferred to Australia in June,
1941, and to Canberra six months later.
Brought ashore as Second Member Aus-
tralian Naval Bqard shortly before Can-
berra left on her last mission, he held
that position till his present appointment
in October, 1944. Membership of Syd-
ney’s Ancient Mariners does not imply
advanced age or an ability to pester
wedding guests. Prime requisites are a
master’s ticket and a reputation as a good
bloke.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 84, Frederick William Turley,
former Curator of Parks at Ipswich. He propa-
gated more than 30 new varieties of bougain-
villea.
At 63, in Melbourne, William Rupert Dean,
educationist and author. He was acting chief
inspector of technical schools, a trustee of the
National Museum, a member of the faculty of
architecture at Melbourne University and an
associate of the Royal College of Arts, London.
He wrote several art books.
In Sydney, Reginald Campbell, Usher of the
Black Rod in the N.S.W. Legislative Council
from 1933 to 1939. He became secretary to
Gregory Wade when Wade was Opposition-
leader. Later he transferred to the Parlia-
mentary Library and then to the Legislative
Council. He became Clerk Assistant in 1939
and retired in 1944.
In Sydney, at 74, Arthur Gibson Manning,
one-time member of N.S.W. and Federal Par-
liaments. He represented Albury in the State
Assembly 1917 to 1920 and was M.H.R. for
Macquarie 1922 to 1928—Chifley failed to un-
seat him in 1925, but did in 1928. Arthur
Manning, an excellent fellow, owned properties
at Narrabri and Parkes, and later at West
Wyalong.


Women's Letter
From Sydney
By Saturday afternoon the sky was sad,
the earth sodden and a Randwick walk-
about was as exhilarating as a cold un-
buttered scone. Here and there the
guttering of the stands overflowed into
miniature waterfalls, the rain blew in on
seats even four or five back and brand
new plastic and nylon coats were spread
over knees rug-wise. It wasn’t a day for
loitering, but even if it had been there
were officials very firmly keeping the
gangway clear at the entrance to the
official stand. And for all that if you
thought the best Easter hats stayed at
home you are mistaken. Women have
the courage of their millinery. True, the
wearers stayed mostly in the stands, and
when they ventured afield hoist bright
petunia, yellow, red and rose sunshades —
rather like prize dahlias bobbing about
in the rain.
The plastic raincoats did not have all
the color at this autumn meeting. Color
rich and bright has woven itself into
tailored suit and woollen frock. Favorite
felt hats are soft, high-crowned and
sprout feathers —coque or goose. That
worn by Mrs. E. P. Strelitz was light
beige in tone and had goose feathers
cascading over its high crown and the
right of its up-swept brim. A cross
between Welsh and witch was Mrs.
Henry Rosenthal’s black hat with its
shoulder-length snood. All in the new
shade of winter white was Mrs. E. P.
Houghton’s jersey suit and turban. This
had a sweep of greeny-black coque
feather across the back and down
alfnost to the shoulder. Mrs. Roy Buck-
land was another of the smart. Her dark-
blue hat wore its feathers at the side.
Dark blue, too, was her suit. Mrs. Mar-
cel Dekyvere’s high-crowned black hat
with its pheasant feather was worn
with a smart black suit. Two who wore
yellow were Noreen Dangar and Mrs.
Frank Rogers. Mrs. Rogers’s suit was of
deep daffodil yellow, and her tiny yellow
hat was wreathed in daisies with yellow
centres. With her was her mother, Mrs.
Nelson, of Dubbo.
From Killara Mrs. E. H. Saleqger and
dark-eyed daughter Margaret brought two
of the nicest hats present. Mrs. Salenger’s
was of blue-and-cherry felt worn with a
dark-sapphire ensemble. Margaret’s hat
was of soft blue felt and was bunched
with soft satin ribbon at the side.
Mrs. Anderson Stuart had a black
astrakhan collar to her black ensemble.
Her small sapphire-blue felt hat wore two
feather pom-poms. Mrs. Noel Vincent’s
flared coat was of emerald - green
corduroy, and Mrs. Clement Chapman’s
was dahlia-pink. Browns and golds were
allied in Mrs. Bill Adams’s outfit. Mrs.
P. H. Osborne was one of the lunch
hostesses of the day. Mrs. Keith Morris
was among the noted ; so was Mrs. Denis
Allen in her grey suit and her berry-red
hat. Joan Allen in huntsman green and
Wendy Playfair in yellow came sweet as
incidental music.
Romano’s was flittering and fluttering
with gaiety last night. Masked characters
in full and swaying frocks in silken,
sinuous, shfeath-like satins, their escorts in
tails and white ties equally anonymous
to the eye of the beholder were descend-
ing the staircase. It could have been by
the thousand if space had permitted. The
idea of the masked ball took on from
the word “go.” Mrs. Ernest Watt, who
made almost a hundred of the trifles in
velvet and tulle and leather and feather
to be bought at the foot of the stairs by
forgetful or neglectful comers, was one
of the night’s hostesses. Dinner was at
eight-thirty and the masks wfere judged
at nine-thirty by a group headed by Mrs.
Bertie Kelly and Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere.
Mrs. Dekyvere’s mask was of black tulle
on a stiffened foundation. It had a
saucy frill of black tulle around the
edges. Her frock of black chiffon was
bouffant and rather period in style. One
mask with its greeny-black coque plume
that swept up above the forehead and then
curved down over the left ear was among
things admired.
Last week Miss Nellie Veitch, of
Neutral Bay, who was a Melbourne per-
sonality for many years, received a letter
telling her of the death of Lady Car-
michael, one of her oldest friends. Lady
Carmichael was the widow of a former
Governor of Victoria who later became
Governor of Bengal. Lady Carmichael
died at her home, Skirling, Biggar, Scot-
land, from the effects of heart trouble
and pneumonia. Skirling had been the
Carmichael home since Baron Car-
michael returned to Scotland from India.
The Duchess of Gloucester will hear this
news with regret, for Lady Carmichael
was godmother to H.R.H.
By tram, by truck, by car, by taxi,
thousands of citizens all last week made
for the Royal Show. If you didnt arrive-
practically at the crack of dawn you
couldn’t get a programme of events which
carried one of those handy little plans of
the grounds, and you were dependent on
good-natured policemen to direct your
steps. And let it be recorded now that
the police officers at the Show were the
best-mannered men to be met in this fair
city. Best-dressed women at the Show
were, of course, the women riders. From
the very young upwards they were smart
as paint. Most women visitors on sunny
days wore printed cotton or washing silk
frocks, shady hats, comfortable shoes
and sample bags. When the rains came
then the frocking, but not the sample
bags, changed.
In the Hall of Agriculture the whole
workings of Australia’s underground
movement was displayed. And what a
glorious victory was unfolded: wheat and
barley, apple and pear, pumpkin and
melon and cauliflower; everything that
has its roots in the soil of this land of
ours raised triumphant head, ready to
face and overcome the enemy of this post-
war world —famine! Really, if our friends
in England could but see this display it
would give them heart —knowing that
what is ours is theirs also!
There was no more fascinating display
than the Wool Board’s. This was in
Anthony Hordern’s pavilion. On the
various stands were tweeds soft and
supple, tapestries suitable for hangings
and bedcovers in bold and subtle shades,
and woollen fabrics so fine that they
would make ideal afternoon or evening
frocks. One of these had on a creamy
background a Persian-like design of a
vine from which drooped heavy sprays
of blossom among which a futuristic little
yellow bird, was poised. Then there were
the black woollen astrakhan, and the
carpets and rugs. A word, too, for the
amusing mural by English artist Barbara
Jones.
It shows the wool industry as she sees
it in 1997, with the sheep growing the
completed article on its back, say a rug,
a bright tartan design, or again a sheep
weaving from the wool on its back a
shirt for the torso of a young man.
He is standing patiently waiting while
the job is finished on him.
One of Australia’s finest women riders
is Mrs. F. N. Chenhall, wife of Dr. Chen-
hall, of Tusculum-street, Potts Point.
Visitors to the Show took pleasure in
watching hei - ride in many of the
events. Horselovers throughout Aus-
tralia remember Mrs. Chenhall as Phyllis
Bray, of Adelaide. Norton Trevaire
photo.
When the Orion sails from Sydney on
April 12 she takes with her a great covey
of well-knowns. Many of them are visit-
ing relations in England, and it is to be
hoped they leave instructions for lots and
lots of food parcels to be sent from Aus-
tralia. England is now in such a state
that simply every mouthful counts.
Among the travellers are Mrs. Philip
Ashton, of Coreena, Junee. Mrs. Ashton,
whose husband is one of the famous
Ashton polo team, is on a visit to her
parents in England. There will be three
Christmases on this voyage: Mr. and
Mrs. and their daughter. The T. A.
Fields and the H. G. Horners, of broad-
casting renown, will also be in the ship’s
company; Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar and
the Scott Waines, too. The Apostolic
Delegate, Dr. Panico, and the R.C. Bishop
of Bathurst, Dr. Norton, are also out-
ward bound, the one for Italy, the other
for Ireland.
From Melbourne
Fitting end to the solemnity of Good
Friday was the Passion Music. At St.
Paul’s Cathedral the choir, with Dr. A.
E. Floyd at the Organ, sang Stainer’s
“Crucifixion.” At the Town Hall the
Philharmonic Choir and the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra under Bernard
Heinze joined in a notable presentation
of Bach’s sublime “St. Matthew Passion.”
William Herbert deputised in the part
of the Evangelist for John Dudley, who
was indisposed. Thea Phillips, stately in
black velvet with diamente trimming, sang
the soprano role ; Joan Jones, wearing a
graceful white frock with long bishop’s
sleeves and bodice cut high to the throat,
was the contralto. Stanley Clarkson was
the bass and. Morris Williams the bari-
tone.
Rosemary, daughter of S.A.’s Governor
Sir Willoughby Nome, was 21 last week ;
she has with her a cousin Eleanor who
was born the same day as Princess Eliza-
beth. Both girls, therefore, will have
celebrated their majority before sailing
for England in the Orion. Lady Norrie
goes with them, and the Governor flies
later. But this is only a short holiday
visit. A boy goes in the Orion, too, but
three younger Norrie children remain in
Adelaide under the care of Miss Sybil
Roberts till their parents return.
Margaret Miller (in private life Mrs.
Charles Davis), of the auburn hair and
very blue eyes, began her choseh career
of beauty culture in one of London’s
West End salons. On coming to Aus-
tralia she joined the staff of Cyclax, of
London, Australian girls, Margaret says,
have naturally good features and com-
plexions, but owing to the climate the
skin has a tendency to dryness which
necessitates constant nourishment and
toning up. A lover of old furniture and
china, Margaret, who has some beauti-
ful examples of the past periods in her
South Yarra flat, is noted for her charm
as a hostess. Photo, by Broothorn.
Six workers of the Y.W.C.A. have left
for Japan, where they will work in leave
centres for all British servicewomen. This
project is under the directorship of Jean
Begg, at present in Japan and whose work
for servicewomen in the Middle East
and S.E.A.C. is already well-known.
Miss Begg’s deputy in 8.C.0.F. is Muriel
Wilson. Miss Ryan, who was a Y-W.C.A.
Senior Representative in Australia dur-
ing the war, is in charge of the party.
The next Y.W.C.A. team from Australia
for Japan is scheduled to leave in May.
The exhibition of sculpture at the Koz-
minsky Galleries is the work of Fredda
Brilliant, who is the wife of the English
film producer Herbert Marshall. Miss
Brilliant, who was born in Poland, was
taught by her father to carve in cork-
wood at the age of five. At 16 she was
experimenting with soap carving. Before
the war she was commissioned to carry
out portraits of celebrated men. She was
recently asked by the Polish Govern-
ment to submit models of proposed
monuments to the people of Poland for
Warsaw and Lodz. Miss Brilliant does
not confine her time to sculpture, how-
ever ; she is also a radio and stage
actress, and has appeared in musical pro-
ductions in New York and played oppo-
site Michael Redgrave in the London pro-
duction of “Thunder Rock.” The sculp-
tress will return to London early in
May, going thence to Yugoslavia and
Bulgaria, where her husband will produce
two films for Arthur Rank’s “Magic
Globe” series. While in Melbourne she
is staying with her sister, Mrs. S. Scher,
at Armadale.
Wendy Anne, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. L. Fanning, of Toorak, was
married last week to Ken, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Kennett, also of
Toorak, at the Littlejohn Memorial
Chapel, Scotch College, the ceremony
being performed by the Rev. Alec
Fraser. The wedding gown, which had
also been her mother’s, was of ivory
georgette and satin. The filmy yoke was
appliqued with satin leaves, outlined with
seed pearls, the bodice finished with a
swathe of satin which extended to form
a bustle at the back. Mrs. Crealock
Price lent the Honiton lace veil, which
was held in plape with a coronet of
orange blossoms. The bride carried a
shower bouquet of white cactus dahlias,
tuberoses and bouvardia. The brides-
maids, Joan Christian and Noni Sampson,
wore off-the-shouider frocks of powder-
blue crepe and coronets of dark-red roses
and they carried trails of the same lovely
flowers. W. G. Campbell was bestman
and R. J. Moore groomsman. Guests,
who were later entertained at a dinner-
dance held at 14 Queen’s-road, were re-
ceived by Mrs. Fanning, who wore a
draped dinner gown of champagne crepe
ornamented op the belt with gold. Mother
of the ’groom chose a simple frock of
black moss crepe with a bead-
embroidered bodice. Among the special
guests was the bride’s grandmother, Mrs.
Hugo Wertheim.
Mrs. Helen Wessells, Director of the
U.S.A. Information Library, was hostess
at a “drop in” party held to celebrate
the Library’s third birthday anniversary.
She was assisted by members of the
Library staff, which included fellow-
Araerican Eleanor Booth, smart in a black
suit and white satin blouse; Lysbeth
Boyd, who chose a blue frock patterned
in large white polka dots, and Diana
Medley, whose parents, the J. D. G.
Medleys, also came. Among others who
“dropped in” were Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
Professor Maurice Belz and his wife,
whose small white feather toque was worn
with a smart black suit, and the recently-
married Purves-Smith couple. She was
formerly on the staff of the Information
Library. U.S. Consul-General Richard
Boyce came with his wife ; her formal
black gown was covered with a black-
satin, gold-buttoned coolie coat lined
with baby lamb. Mrs., Armistead Lee
was in black with a hip-length white Aus-
tralian lamb coat worn over it. Mrs.
Harold Rabling’s smart black suit and
black ribbon hat was worn with a sable
scarf.
News has been received of the mar-
riage at Chingkiang last month of A. H.
(Harry) Bishop, of Oakleigh, to Mabel
S. Moehring, of Minnesota, U.S.A. Both
are members of U.N.R.R.A. China Mis-
sion at Shanghai. The ceremony was
quite an international affair. Dr. R. T.
Richardson, an American Presbyterian
missionary, officiated ; Karl Koneke, of
Denmark, gave the bride away ; Valda
Markham, of Wellington (M.L.), was
bridesmaid and P. Davenport, of Mel-
bourne, best man. Graduating in science
from the University of Minnesota, Mrs.
Bishop instructed in nursing at her Alma
Mater from 1942 to 1945 and then
joined the staff of Cornell Uni-
versity. Joining U.N.R.R.A. for service
in China early last year, she was highly
commended by the Director of
U.N.R.R.A. China Mission, General
Edgerton, for her courage when the
Madam Sun Yat Sen Peace Hospital at
Kwaian was bombed. Harry Bishop
joined U.N.R.R.A. on his release from
service as captain in the 2/2 Pioneer
Battalion, with which he saw service in
Syria and Java and was a p.-0.-w. in
Burma. He is a Bachelor of Agricultural
Science and has worked in an adminis-
trative capacity on the Yellow River
and Grand Canal reclamation schemes
in Northern China.
Members of the Professorial Board,
the Ladies Committee of the Melbourne
Symphony* Orchestra and representatives
of musical societies were guests at the
Conservatorium welcome - home party
given to Professor Bernard Heinze. Noted
among the guests were Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, wearing a beech-brown suit and
hat; Mrs> Beatrice Campbell, a former
Lady Mayoress; Mrs. Guy Bakewell,
whose lime-green suit was worn with a
platter hat of lime-green felt trimmed
with cyclamen and pale - gold ribbon;
Mrs. H. V. Richardson, who had two
white quills adorning her black straw
hat, which was worn with a black suit
relieved by saxe-blue; Mrs. Clarence
Weber, who chose black, as did the
Angliss lady; and Bertha Jorgensen,
leader of the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra, in a brown ensemble. Pianists
Raymond Lambert and Lindsay Biggins,
Paul Fiddian, who for some years was
concert manager for the A.8.C., and
Horace Stevens were also there to give
Bernard the glad hand.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, president of the
Australia-America Association, gathered
members of her Younger Set together in
the drawingroom of Menzies Hotel for
their first meeting of the year. The Y.S.
well help the president and her committee
in the forthcoming Coral Sea Ball, which
will be held in the St. Kilda Town Hall
on May 8. All proceeds from the ball
will be handed to the American Women's
Auxiliary for the Children’s Hospital.
The stage presentation in which the
Younger Set will appear promises to be
“one out of the box.” Martha Sebree,
elder daughter of General Sebree, U.S.
Military Attache, and Mrs. Sebree, will
be Miss America.


That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 68
years’ specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet .
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WADES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hiider (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W, Russell French, jfr
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
liqueurs
m
m
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
liqueurs
it's "good taste" to serve them!
HIGHEST AWARD AND FOUR FIRST
PRIZES 1947 ROYAL EASTER SHOW
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY,, ETD. —Established 18i&
FBD(a).
The WILD CAT COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* to Funds.
1937.. 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
To staff fund, £15,000 * ■ ) Ano
1938.. 5,740,376 3,589,587 567,186 )
Written off properties, £lOO,OOO.
1939.. 5,931,144 3,448,244 550,359 1,932.541
1940.. 6,076,026 3,626;703 529,996 1,919,328
Unexplained addition Invest. Res., £13,958.
To staff fund, £20,000 ..} 2,185,393
1941.. 6,339,456 3,610,362 523,701 )
Unexplained reduction Invest. Res., £1419.
1942.. 6,301,785 3,690,127 523,701 2,087,957
Unexplained addition Invest. Res, £18,777
1943.. 6,552,288 3,619,596 528,133]
Written off premises, £lOO,OOO • 2,104,559
Written off other assets, £200,000 _
1944.. 6,884,448 3,683,893 568,572
Written off premises, £lO,OOO ■ 2,668,032
To staff fund, £3,950
1945.. 7,208,804 3,822,276 626,481
Written off fixed assets, £12,270' • 2,743,727
To staff fund, £4,050 ..,
1946.. 7,886,078 4,051,405 839,673
Written off fixed assets, £96,654 2,698,346
Exchange adjustment, £200,000
* Excluding income tax and rates.
Second-largest of Australia’s five big
mutual life offices, the 77-year-old
National continues to exhibit satisfactory
margins in all matters upon which
soundness and progress depend. It
gathers its income from all over Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, Britain, Ireland, S.
Africa and elsewhere. Outstanding fea-
tures of the latest accounts are (1) record
amount of new business put on the
books, (2) jgrowth in surplus for division
among policyholders, (3) slight improve-
ment in the scale of bonuses, (4) substan-
tial strengthening of actuarial and other
reserves, (5) further easing of interest
rates, and (6) changes in the investment
portfolio.
New business figures compare as fol-
lows :
loon
Policies .. 28,382 26,46*9 39,59*6
Amount . . £10,158,497 £13,169,847 £20,468,143
Annual premium 363,755 560,398 802,421
Av. per policy 358 497 517
Av. premium p.e. 3/11/7 4/5/1 3/18/5
The amount written last term was 55.4
p.c. more than in 1945, and over double
the 1939 figure. Since money the world
over appears to be permanently depreci-
ated compared with pre-war days, annual
new life business might well be estab-
lished at a permanently higher level.
Much will depend upon continuance of
present income rates and of “full” em-
ployment, and upon whether the Govern-
ment damages thrift by forcing interest
rates too low. Deferred demand for
assurance from service personnel, and
the popularity of group assurance in the
superannuation schemes of commercial
houses, helped to bump up last year’s
figures, which were exceptional.
The year’s income from all sources was
£677,274 stronger at £7,886,078 —pre-
miums £5,699,696 (up £605,786) and in-
terest, etc., £2,186,383 (up £71,488).
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., £2,995,000 remained. Of this
£50,000 was written off the book value
of premises, £46,654 off fittings and fur-
niture, eliminating them from the
accounts, and £200,000 was used for ex-
change adjustment in connection with
transfer of funds to S. Africa—this, the
chairman says, involved the co. in no
pecuniary loss. The other £2,698,346 was
added to the assurance fund, making it
£61,421,302, which more than covers lia-
bilities under policies. And it had the
support and assistance of £2,130,154 of
other reserves as well. Also, over the last
four years £423,000-odd has been written
off premises and other assets, thus
strengthening inner reserves.
Owing to the large amount of new busi-
ness put on the books, not much notice
need be taken of the growth in adminis-
trative exes., which were 10.9 p.c. of
total income as against 8,9 p.c. for the
previous year. After deducting normal
reserves accumulated against policies,
total net loss from war claims over the
last six years was £993,000, against which
special provision amounting to £550,000
had been made.
The cost of life assurance, like every-
thing else, is higher than it used to be.
Bonuses to policyholders have been
severely cut since 1939, owing to inflation
and the Government’s cheap-money drive.
It was to help offset the effects of this,
and protect future bonus-paying capacity,
that the co. lowered the valuation of its
liabilities on participating policies from 3
p.c. to 2\ p.c. in 1940. The cost was
£515,000, which was charged against the
surplus for that period.
The distributable surplus (excess of
life fund over policy liabilities), and \yhat
was done with it, for the last three tri-
enniums is shown in the following table:
, —Date Triennial Valuation— N
Sept. 30, Sept. 3(f. Sept. 30,
1940. 1943. 1946.
£ £ £
Total surplus .. 4,068,428 3,339,736 3,608,830
Appropriation;—
Bonuses .. .. 2,674,205 1,571,052 2,870,176
Reserve ctg. . . 94,222 1,618,684 138,654
Staff super, fund 20,000 150,000 50,000
Actuarial reserve 515,001 500,000
Mortality pro-
vision .. 250,000 —•—
Tax reserve .. 50,000
Bonuses last year were on a slightly
higher scale. They totalled £1,100,000 as
against £1,770,000 for the two preceding
years combined. Among other things,
the further strengthening of actuarial and
other reserves is to help offset the effect
of the continued drop in interest rates,
which have now reached a point where
the blessings are no longer unmixed.
Gross interest return on the mean
assurance fund was Is. lOd. lighter last
year at £4 3s. sd. p.c. The net rate (after
deducting taxation) was £3 14s. 2d. p.c.
(down Is.), as against £4 3s. 9d. p.c. in
1939 and £5 3s. sd. p.c. in 1919. But
for the leavening of old blocks of in-
vestments acquired at more remunerative
prices the contraction would have been
even more marked.
War-time increases in resources were
invested in Government securities, up
£2,980,588 last term:
f 1939 N , 1946 ,
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds ..£1,694,387 3.5 £1,489,471 2.2
Public securities. 24,333,802 50.7 45,880,067 70.2
Mortgages .. 10,641,640 22.2 9,022,190 13.8
Foreclosures .. 816,369 0.7 244,573 0.4
Loans on policies 5,449,406 11.2 3,659,757 5.5
Other assets .. 5,600,307 11.7 5,183,250 7.9
Since the Government target now appears
to be 3 p.c. for Commonwealth securi-
ties, life offices are beginning to turn
attention to ordinary stocks and shares,
in which the National invested £267,285
last term; and their book value was
“considerably below market value” at
September 30 last.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
t Dividends—— N Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pret. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1937 .. 34,940 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 .. 42,265 8 „ 10 „ 30,072 12,193 169,685
1989 .. 53,104 8 „ 12$ „ 37,390 16,714 185,399
1940 .. 53,788 8 „ 125,, 37,391 16,397 201,796
1941 .. 58,286 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 13,577 215,373
Staff fund inaugurated, £lO,OOO.
1942 .. 41,423 8 p.c. 12$ p.c. 37,390 4,033 219,406
1943 .. 44,101 8 „ 12$ „ 37,391 6,710 226,116
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1944 ~ 47,642 8 p.c. 12$ p.c. 37,391 10,251 236,367
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1945 .. 59,237 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 14,528 250,895
1946 .. 51,830 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 7,121 258,016
1947 .. 76,328 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 81,619 289,635
Easily the best showing since the present
co. took over from McDowell and
Hughes, Ltd., in 1920, and eight fully-
paid ords. were handed out for every five
held in the old co. Circumstances were
exceptional last year. The seller’s market
continued, more goods became available
from both local and overseas sources,
and the public had plenty of money in
its pockets, thanks to a state of virtually
“full” employment at increased wage
rates. Also the management has a repu-
tation for > shrewd buying and careful
administration. And the position of the
store, facing George- and King-streets,
one of the busiest intersections in the city,
is another factor very helpful to turn-
over.
Retailers generally were in clover, as
the following table shows —it gives per-
centage changes in aggregate sales of 22
Sydney stores compared with the corres-
ponding period of the previous year;
Average Three Months Ended.
t A —^
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- +2.6 +5.6 +8.2 +6.3 +4.5
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 f 12.3
1941- +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 -2.4 +B.O
1942- —6.0 —19.3 —lB.B —6.0 -T2.6
1943- —19.3 —l.O +1.3 —l.B —5.7
1944- +6.6 +7.4 +4.8 +3.2 +5.4
1945- +22.5 +30.8 +37.2 -U35.3 +31.6
1946- +34.6 _
And the market would have been livelier
still but for clothes rationing, which Mc-
Dowells and other retailers say no longer
serves any useful purpose and should be
abolished. The upper limit of gross
margins for a large proportion of goods
is fixed by price control, which means
that competition no longer has much in-
fluence on mark-up. Advertising and
delivery costs are still restricted, and;
though wage lifts have considerably in-
creased labor costs in the aggregate, the
sharp rise in turnover reduced the
wage cost per sale. Under present con-
ditions retail profits are, therefore, largely
a matter of turnover.
Last term the spring in McDowells’
gross earnings (£442,675) was £58,963.
Including provision for taxation (£75,000,
down £30,000) and depreciation (un-
altered at £4200), exes. (£366,347) took
£34,645 of the gain. Thus the net result
(£76,328) benefited by £24,498. It was
enough to pay the small pref. div. (£800)
and show 25.8 p.c. on the £292,726 of
ord. capital, as against 17.4, 19.9, 16, 14.7,
13.8, 19.6 and 18.1 p.c. back to 1940.
The distribution was kept at 15 p.c., of
which 5 p.c. is labelled bonus. The
£31,619 that remained lifted the lay-by
to £289,635, That is to say, each pound
of paid capital had the support and
assistance of 19s. 4d. of visible reserves,
which also helps to explain the high rate
of earning on capital alone.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of turnover. But
costs are still on the up-grade, and there
are signs that spending generally is be-
ginning to ease a little, and buyers are
becoming more discriminating in their
purchases. Still, the co. is well equipped
financially and otherwise to earn satis-
factory profits, and the wide margin be-
tween earnings and distributions gives
the 15 p.c, to shareholders a comfortable
appearance, for the present at any rate.
There is nothing to worry about in
balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1944. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £302,726 £302,726 £302,726 £302,726
Mortgages .. 75,000’ 50,000
Overdraft .. 54,670 18,002 2,957 21,288
Sundry creditors 37,109 88,645 90,995 181,345
Tax reserve .. 41,614 160,011 224,772 194,015
Freeholds, fit-
tings, invest-
ments, etc. 890,945 452,601 609,495 492,215
Stocks.. .. 165,154 251,677 193,233 272,320
Book debts .. 81,490 72,337 99,148 98,060
Cash, etc. . . 6,777 10,587 16,309 20,183
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903 90,903
The high level of stock (up £79,087 last
term) is largely an insurance against
scarcities of supplies, delays in delivery
and rising costs. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£129,818) was £48,949.
The f.-p. pound ords. have advanced
from the old official ceiling of 565. 3d. at
end 1946 to 775. 6d. in the market. At
the higher figure the return is 3.9 p.c. on
a 15 p.c, div. basis.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
, Di vi denas N
, Pref. •, Ord. Towards Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 8 p.c. Reserves, serves.
£, £> £ £> £>
1938.. 35,052 5984 3012 15,600 10,456 46,039
Prom tax reserve, £3437 .. .. 49,476
4 p.c.
1939.. 13,202 5984 3012 7,800 45,882
A. G. Healing and Subsidiaries,
6 p.c.
1940.. 27,883 5984 3012 11,700 7,187 53,873
8 p.c.
1941.. 28,730 5984 3012 15,600 4,134 58,007
1942.. 35,800 5984 3012 15,600 11,204 69,211
10 p.c.
1943.. 51,190 5984 3012 19,500 22,694 91,905
To staff funds, £BOOO .. .. 83,905
1944.. 68,417 5984 3012 19,500 39,921 123,826
To staff funds, £lO,OOO .. .. 113,826
1945.. 63,882 5984 8012 19,500 35,386 149,212
To staff funds, £lO,OOO .. .. 139,212
1946.. 86,84 6598 4 3012 19,5 00 5 8,36 0 197,562
To staff funds, £12,000 ... .. 185,562
Adaptable management enabled the co.
to thrive under war-time restraints: then
to find itself well provided for the out-
break of peace, having a finger in several
pies of excellent savor. Radios, re-
frigerators, vacuum-cleaners and steel-


Public Notices.
AGENCIES AND BUSINESS CONNECTIONS re-
quired. Write to S. R. ROSBROOK, A.F.1.A., 48
Russell Street, Toowoomba, Queensland.
BLUE ASBESTOS (Chrysotile). Persons interested
large deposit 30 miles rail to port communicate D. L.
FRASER, Craigilee House, Rockhampton, Queensland.
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
*
JACKSOX 4
OSUIXIVAn
man
*J*»S Bt'?SJ' '■'
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers,.Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
•
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype & Linotype Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Copperplate Printers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Photo Process Engravers
Envelope & Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rubber Stamp Manufacturers
Rulers, Bookbinders, Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists & Illuminators
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twine
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Mining.
Owner of a Queensland mining property containing
about 300,000 tons of I.4dwt. tailings is prepared
to consider propositions for re-treatment. Consider-
able buildings and plant that could be utilised are
already on the ground. Reply Auriferous, care
Bulletin Office, Brisbane.
Incorporated in England by Boyal Charter in 1835. The liability of the member*
is limited.
THE
Bank of Australasia
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. . • • • • • • • • • £1,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of tbe Bank) .. .. 2,500,000
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the Bank) .. 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter .. .. 4,500,000
£13,500,000
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO
14th OCTOBER, 1946.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
HELD ON THURSDAY, MARCIJ 27, 1947.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 14th October last, with the Profit
and Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for United
Kingdom, Australian and New Zealand rates and estimated taxes on profits for the year, and after making
a transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account out of which account provision for all bad and doubtful
debts has been made, the net profit for the year amounted to £223,014.
To this (has to be added £246,921 brought forward from the previous year’s account, making a total
of £460,935. From this £86,625 was paid as an Interim Dividend on 27th September last, and the
Directors have now appropriated a further sum of £123,750 to pay a Final Dividend of 5/- per Share,
less Income Tax at the full standard rate of 9/- in the £, making, in all, £210,375, equal to 8/6 per
Share, less Tax, and representing for the year a distribution at the rate of 8J per cent-, less Tax. There
will remain £259,660 to be carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia, and New Zealand on 28th March.
His Grace the Duke of Devonshire, K.G., had been appointed to a seat on the Board, and his name
will be submitted for the approval of the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with
the provisions of the Deed of Settlement.
The Directors retiring by rotation are s—His Grace the Duke of Devonshire, K.G., and Donald
Forsyth Anderson, Esq., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths & Co., offer themselves for re-election.
An Extraordinary General Meeting of the Proprietors of the Bank of, Australasia has been called,
by advertisement (to take place immediately after the Annual General Meeting), at which a Resolution
will be proposed to effect certain alterations in the By-laws of the Corporation as referred to in the notice
of the Extraordinary General Meeting. These alterations are to bring the By-lawS more in aqpord with
present practice, and will be useful when the time comes to puf before the Proprietors for their
consideration a proposal for the amalgamation of the Bank of Australasia and the Union Bank of Australia
Ltd. Notification of this proposal has already appeared in the Press, and in due course Proprietors will
receive circulars giving full details and notices of the dates of the necessary further Extraordinary General
Meeting.
Since the date of the last Report the Branch at Katamatite, Victoria, which had been closed in
1942, in accordance with the official policy with regard to Rationalisation of Banking, has been reopened.
New Branches have also been opened at Burwood, Essendon, and Ormond (suburbs of Melbourne), Flinders
Lane (Melbourne), and Wodonga, all in Victoria; at Annandale and Auburn (suburbs of Sydney), in New
South Wales; at Woolloongabba (suburb of Brisbane), in Queensland; at Smith ton, in Tasmania; at
Mitcham (suburb of Adelaide), and Whyalla, in South Australia, and at Lower Hutt and Otahuhu, in
New Zealand.
G. C. GIBBS, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 17th March, 1947.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
From October 16, 1945, to October 14, 1946.
(Expressed in Sterling.)
Balance brought forward from October, 1945
Profit for the year to October 14, 1946, after deducting Rebate ( £2230) on Bills
current at Balance date, and after making a transfer to the credit of Contingencies
Account, out of which account provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been
£246,921
made
LESS:
Charges of Management—
Australia and New Zealand—
Salaries and allowances at 217 Branches and Agencies
General Expenses
London —
Salaries and allowances
General Expenses
Directors’ remuneration
.. £1,500,597
£499,400
205,820
44,139
27,772
12,930
£790,061
11. Rates and estimated Taxes on current year’s profits-
Australia, New Zealand, and London
From which deduct:
Dividend paid September 27, 1946
Dividend payable March 28, 1947
Balance carried forward per Balance Sheet
487,522
1,277,583
223,014
£469,935
£86,625
123,750
210,375
£269,560
BALANCE SHEET, OCTOBER 14, 1946.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. .. •• £2,630
Deposits at Interest .. .. • • 22,940,222
Current Accounts .. .. •• 52,240,758
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit, and
other Accounts, including provision
for contingencies .. .. . • 6,416,056
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra .. .. .. .. .. 384,835
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes, and
Bank Balances £11,379,162
Money at Call and Short Notice .. .. 525,000
Treasury Bills —Australian 1,500,000
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia .. 21,394,000
British Government Securities .. .. 1,698,594
Australian and New Zealand Government
Securities, and other Investments, in-
cluding Tax Reserve Certificates .. 15,011,607
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
transit 4,335,580
Advances to Customers, and other Ac-
counts 34,342,696
Liability of Customers for Acceptances,
as per contra .. 384,885
Bank Premises and Sites in Australia,
New Zealand and London, at Cost less
amounts written off 796,337
£91,367,811
Liabilities of Customers and others on
outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc.,
as per contra 4,136,058
NOTE: The Australian and New
Zealand assets and liabilities are
included at the par rates of ex-
change and the net difference
which would have arisen had they
been converted at the rates ruling
at the date of the Balance-sheet
is covered by Currency Reserves.
£95,503,869
G. C. COWAN, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books of the Bank in London and with the Returns
received in London from the Branches in Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the Bank
Balances, Bills Receivable, and Investments held in London. Having obtained all the information and
explanations we have required, we report that, in our opinion, the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn
up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs, according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books in London and the Returns
received from the Branches.
DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & 00., Auditors.
London, 121. th March, 1947. ,
tube furniture are now manufactured and
distributed, in addition to the established
business in cycles and motor accessories.
A good market in all lines seems assured
for some time. .
The 50-year-old Healing cycle busi-
ness became a public co. in 1926. After
four successful years, the co. suffered its
only loss in 1931. The loss (£23,902),
together with £27,500 of goodwill, was
cut by writing ss. off each pound ord.
share. Thereafter the co. advanced
steadily by deployment. Two subsidiaries
were formed, one dealing in radio and
electrical goods, the other in hire-pur-
chase business. Between 1934 and 1937
six branches were opened in country
towns of Victoria and South Australia.
It was a failure of country business
through bushfires and drought that
brought on the relapse in 1939.
But war gave new importance to the
co.’s engineering plants, electrical .work-
shops and plating machinery. A large
switchover was made to the making of
lathes and precision tools, and by 1942
the bulk of output was for defence. Pro-
duction of radios and refrigerators
ceased, radio and cycles were severely
limited, and the motor business suffered
from petrol-rationing, but was compen-
sated later by the demand for overhaul
of ageing vehicles. All these activities
revived last term.
Last year’s achievement was more re-
markable than the introductory table
indicates. Before tax deductions,
was £213,920, an improvement of 74.6
p.c. on the figure for 1945 (£122,537).
Tax took all but £20,583 of the increase,
having itself risen from £65,000 to
£135,800. After allowing for adjustments
in reserves, net profit was £22,904 better
at £86,846. It represents 17.8 p.c. of
total shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined), compared with 14
p.c., 15.9 p.c., 12.3 p.c. and 8.7 p.c. back
to 1942. After paying pref. divs. it was
39.3 p.c. of ord. capital. The last £lO,OOO
of goodwill was written off ; and reserves,
having risen by £116,351 in four years,
are now equal to 57.9 p.c. of paid capital.
The war-time strengthening of finances
is seen in the following table:
A. G. Healing and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £320,000 £320,000 £320,000 £320,000
Overdraft .. 59,346 71,477 ■ — l ““
Mortgages, etc. 128,360 120,870 110,023 102,619
Sundry creditors 96,283 142,366 140,963 136,668
Tax reserve .. 3,535 18,699 127,397 194,492
Freeholds, etc. 120,198 117,208 160,097 166,669
Plant, etc. .. 45,924 53,035 60,833 66,204
Stocks.. . . 273,305 363,112 400,769 412,633
Book debts .. 230,297 214,480 162,743 330,970
Cash, etc. . . 6,506 15,631 115,116 38,628
Goodwill .. 16,000 16,000 10,000
Capital consists of 260,000 ords. of 15s.
and 125,000 prefs. of £l. Liquid assets
exceed liabilities (including tax provision)
by £348,452, an improvement of £48,207
over the twelvemonth. The co.’s strong
position, combined with the leeway in
supplies still to be overtaken, augurs well
for the current term. In 1945 a factory
site was acquired at Northcote (Vic.),
where it is intended to build and to
transfer all manufacturing plants. Plans
have been held up by the Government s
refusal to issue a building permit.
The 15s. f.-p. ords. were quoted at
12s. 6d. in 1939, at 16s. in 1943, at 21s.
9d. a year ago, and now they fetch 355.
6d. At 355. 6d. the yield is 4.2 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Because war prevented the original
arrangement between Zinc Corp. and
New Broken Hill Consolidated for the
mining and treatment of the latter co. s
ore being carried out, N.B.H. suffered con-
siderable loss. To compensate for this, a
new arrangement has been entered into,
whereby Zinc Corp. will sell to New
Broken Hill (at cost) 10 p.c. of its annual
ore output from the beginning of 1946,
until total lead content aggregates
30,000 tons. On the basis of the present
production programme, this point will be
reached about the end of 1949. After
that Zinc Corp. has the right to buy a
similar tonnage on like tefms from New
Broken Hill. Ore from both mines will
be treated at Zinc Corp.’s big all-flotation
mill. Production programme for the
decade to 1955 is as follows:
From From
Z.C. Leases. N.B.H. Leases. Total.
* Tons. Tons. Tons.
1946 . . 448,000 42,000 490,000
1947 . . 510,000 74,000 584,000
1948 .. 539,000 127,000 666,000
1949 .. 520,000 173,000 693,000
1950 . . 509,000 184,000 698,000
1951 . . 693,000 198,000 891,000
1952 .. 693,000 242,000 935,000
1953 .. 693,000 270,000 963,000
1954 .. 693,000 300,000 993,000
1955 .. 693,000 330,000 1,023,000
A year ago the lead and zinc lodes
running through the Corp.’s property had
been proved to continue into N.B.H. s
ground for approximately 1000 ft., over
which distance they are expected to
yield 10,000,000 tons of high-grade ore.
Recently the diamond drill intersected,
at a depth of 1800 ft., a strongly mineral-
ised ore body 3000 ft. south of Zinc
Corp.’s boundary. Zinc Corp. holds 28
p.c. of the share capital of N.8.H., and
a “major interest in what appear to be
attractive possibilities on the Broken Hill
field and elsewhere.”
* * *•
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.) is again
dimmed, this time by the fact that the
co.’s Waratah venture has proved a
costly dud. Work has been discontinued
because quantity and values of exposed
ore were far short of expectations, and
the gold carrier pinched badly. Operations
for the year to end July last showed a
loss of £6051. The co. had £9 in the till,
stores, etc., totalled £641, debtors £l4.
There was £342 owing to the bank. Plant
at the Waratah is to be sold, and the
remainder, if any, transferred to the co.’s
Wiluna East property, still held under
exemption conditions.
« * * *
Accounts of London-controlled Paringa
Mining and Exploration, Ltd. (W.A.), for
year to August 31, 1946, show a profit
of £15,587, or a little less than half of
that for the previous 12 months. Divi-
dend of p.c. absorbs £18,593. The
co. operates a group of mines at the
north end of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile.
* * * *
Directors of Burbidge Gold Mines
(W.A.) have agreed to the request of
the committees of the Adelaide, Mel-
bourne and Sydney Stock Exchanges to
extend the closing time for application of
the new share issue (100,000 2s, shares at
par) until April 11. Co, works an auri-
ferous deposit near Southern Cross on
the Yilgarn field.
* * * *
Westralian Gold Items: Reporting on
March 18 the first clean-up after the re-
sumption of milling on March 6, Triton
(W.A.) says the grade of ore treated was
low, much of it having been obtained
from old ore passes in the course of re-
conditioning work. About 3000 tons
were crushed for a yield of 2370 z. Man-
agement states that in 40 weeks 1400 ft.
of development was done, of which 247 ft.
was in ore averaging 5.5dwt., over a width
of 72 inches Evanston Gold (W.A.)
treated 1360 tons for 5350 z. bullion for
28 days to March 16, but does not say
what the fine-gold content was. Latest
report says “everything is proceeding
satisfactorily; both tonnage and grade
are expected to improve.” Co. is on the
market with 187,500 new 4s. shares at
par.... Bewick Moreing and Co. have
agreed, subject to acceptance of their
terms, to supervise the future develop-
ment of the Blue Spec antimony gold-
mine (W.A.).


■I
mm
*
.
;SS¥S
mm
sas-fs
w*~
■l*
If
,
'
ftxSg £ :§* * '****&■»
V./ N *
V
3
ill
i ?
M 3M
From “a room for meals”
■
to modern, comfortable dining room
GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL NEWCASTLE
It's a pleasure to eat ... a pleasant meal requires two things
—good food and pleasant surroundings. Modern, well-appointed dining
rooms are a feature of many hotels in N.S.W. to-day, and this service has been
made possible, to a very great extent, through Tooth’s hotel reconstruction
programme —the aim of which is to provide hotel amenities in N.S.W. equal
to the world’s best—and which will be resumed as soon as the housing shortage
is overcome.
r iP €D €H TT H & CO•1LRlMl II HP IB lIB>
SYDNEY
Makers qf Good Beer since 1835
T. 10.248
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
No. 2889 of 1946.
TO RICHARD WILLIAM BARRETT late of Gosford.
—TAKE NOTICE that EVA FLORIS BARRETT has
filed her Petition for a Divorce No. 2889 of 1946
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards. If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, King Street, Syd-
ney, by the 22nd day of April, 1947, and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from Messrs.
Barkell and Peacock, Solicitors, of 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
DATED the 3rd day of April, 1947.
BARKELL & PEACOCK, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
THE SYDNEY SHOW.
By some unfortunate oversight ring
events were continued while the N. S.
Wales Governor, Lieut.-General North-
cott, officially opened the R.A.S.’s Royal
Easter Show. Bursts of applause for the
young women as they took their horses
over the jumps must have bewildered the
General, whose back was to the ring,
and, if he thought the plaudits were
evoked by any passages of his speech, he
was quickly disillusioned when" his refer-
ence to the unhappy people of Britain,
starving after the ravages of war and
floods, was greeted by a most enthusiastic
burst of cheering and clapping , For-
tunately the Governor’s closing remarks,
“I have much pleasure in declaring the
R.A.S. Show of 1947 officially open,”
coincided with the final jump of one of
the performers in the ring, so he may
have felt that a modicum of the applause
was levelled in the right direction.
Something of the same spirit per-
meated the whole Show. A record crowd
of 116,000 was just about at fighting pitch
on the opening day. The following day
also broke attendance records with nearly
100,000, and on Good Friday 200,000
people jostled and fought to get in and
see what little was visible the mill-
ing crowds. About 70 feet of fence were
torn down and 2000 streamed in before
the police could take control. Fifty
ambulance men and 30 nurses were busy
with over 250 casualties.
The festive spirit reached its happy
peak on Easter Saturday, when 260,000
souls converged on the grounds. Around
midday over 40,000 people were ganged
up for admission when small detachments
rushed the exit gates to try to force their
way in. The rush swelled to 5000, women
were knocked over and separated from
their children and casualties sometimes
had to be passed over the heads of the
mob. Later, in the grounds, another mob
of about 10,000 “demonstrated” outside
the Hall of Industries, whistling, counting
and shouting, until the doors were opened
and then repeated the earlier scene, rush-
ing the doors, trampling women and fight-
ing with men trying to protect their
families against the onslaught. Ambu-
lance men treated nearly 400 people dur-
ing the day.
There was little of the holiday or fair
atmosphere about the Show. It was more
like a Friday shopping rush with grim-
faced people shoving and trampling each
other in almost desperate determination
to do the rounds. Customers were parted
from their coin a little more ruthlessly
and blatantly than usual—programme-
sellers with two different programmes re-
fused to sell one without the other ; ad-
mission fees were charged for some of
the displays ; children’s balloons cost as
much as 4s. 6d.; sample bags, in most
cases, were leaner than in previous years ;
and “coffee and sandwiches” cost 6d. for
a weak cup of tea and 6d. for a strong pie.
Spangle Alley literally did a roaring trade,
walking sticks and “lovely bubbly rubber
bubbles” sold fast, and the amusement
booths had a surprising number of cigar-
ettes to give away to anyone fortunate
enough to win a prize.
Somewhere, behind the tumult, was the
calm, solid backbone of the land. The
sheep, cattle and horses seemed as fine
as ever and unconcerned by the hysteria,
and in the Agricultural Hall there seemed
to be everything that this land can pro-
duce, from corn and cucurbits to
pumpkins, preserves and honey as clear
as gold wine. The land men who came
down to see their displays and watch the
animals must have viewed tjie fruits
of their labors, and the behavior of the
mob which came to see them, with very
mixed feelings. And no doubt they have
returned to the country with long, long
thoughts about the city which lives on
them.
"Faust."
The audience which packed the Sydney
Town Hall to hear Gounod’s masterpiece
was probably sorry to see the unfortunate
lover of Marguerita yanked off to the
nether regions. His singing seemed to
atone for all his faults and his departure
marked the too-early close of the A.B.C.
season of concert-opera which has —with
one exception—proved extremely popu-
lar.
“Faust” was notable for the choral
work by the Hurlstone Choral Society.
Concise and not afraid to open their
mouths, they must have given some un-
easy moments to the sleepless pigeons up
above as they steamed into the fortissimo
passages of the waltz from the Kermesse
scene.
About the only thing missing from
Raymond Beatty’s representation of
Mephistopheles was his traditional leap
from behind the burst of flame as the old
alchemist asks for a final fling before he
gets even mustier than his parchments.
His “Calf of Gold” and the cavatina
“While You Play at Sleeping” were
rendered with admirable sardonic vocal-
ism. William Herbert’s “Faust” was
sung with fine resonance and clarity,
marred only by a timorous high C in the
“All Hail Thou Dwelling” aria.
Strella Wilson’s “Jewel Song” was itself
a gem which coruscated in its final pas-
sages. Douglas Cribbe’s Valentine lacked
drama in the death scene, though his
farewell song to Marguerita was well
sustained.
"Black Limelight."
Staged in the Y.M.C.A. Hall, “Black
Limelight” was another good offering by
the City of Sydney Theatre Guild, though
it must have rocked the rightful inhabi-
tants of the hall. The play deals with
murders of the fruity type, more fitting,
morally, to older-established vice dens
than the Wyem.
Carlotta Kalmar, a young Hungarian
actress with eyes like Micky Mouse, first
made her mark on Sydney as a particu-
larly supple Tondelayo in “White Cargo’’
at the Royal. As Mrs. Charrington, in
“Black Limelight,” her performance is
even better, though her particular type
of dramatic acting is too big for the
tiny stage. Although the other players
are in excellent form, Miss Kalmar
carries most of the production on her
own, keeping the audience’s programmes
screwed up in suspense until the last 10
seconds. Then, after exposing the bad
bloke, she crashes to the floor in a bone-
breaking faint and takes a well-earned
rest.
Peter Bathurst, known for the remark-
able things he can do to a radio micro-
phone, is the lawyer in “Black Limelight,”
shows he is just as much at home on
the boards. He is well cast, figuratively,
as a kindly legal porpoise who turns out
to be another Grey Nurse in the end.
The reason for the dim illumination
cast on the Charrington household is an
erring husband, particularly well played
by Deryck Barnes. As the lady who leads
the husband astray, Patricia Firman
acted so well that it seemed a pity she
had to get it in the neck in the end.
Reviewed Briefly.
Stage and Concert
Melbourne’s most musical suburbs,
Camberwell and Brighton, invaded the
metropolitan Town Hall with an orchestra,
soloists and 200 voices led by Dr. Her-
man Schildberger for Handel’s massive
“Israel in Egypt.” The grim story of the
Seven Plagues and the smiting of the
first-born was told with magnificent
abandon and the passing of the Red Sea
had a choral weight behind it which
could have done service for a description
of the bombing of Hiroshima. Handel’s
only oratorio for double chorus antici-
pated modern descriptive music and prob-
ably did it better. The buzzing of the
flies, the leaping of the frogs, the hail-
storms and the drinking of the poisoned
river were uncannily expressive.
31= * * *
John Dudley’s reappearance at the
Assembly Hall in Melbourne, after 12
years overseas, brought a large and appre-
ciative audience to listen to his melodious
outpourings. The Dudley voice has im-
proved, his breath control is good and,
although there was some forced tone and
somewhat affected sobbing in the “Elu-
cevan le Stelle” from “La Tosca,” there
was for compensation a fine interpre-
tation of Handelian oratorio. Best of all
was the English panel, where the voice
was dramatic, poised and expressive.
* * * *
A complimentary concert to the
talented young Melbourne pianist Valma
Lewis, at Melbourne Town Hall, com-
bined the emotional quality of a revival
meeting with as high an artistic quality
as any concert heard for a long time.
Melbourne audiences tend to coldness on
most occasions, but after a Schumann
panel, played by Miss Lewis with glit-
tering abandon, the noise of stamping
feet sounded like thunder. Her Liszt and
Chopin were of the same order and her
ability to switch from the gay to the
grave bespoke an experience older than
her years. She is off to Europe with the
blessing of Professor Heinze, who has
detected “the true spark of genius” in her.
* * * *
Jascha Spivakovsky has gained in power
since he appeared as a member of the
Spivakovsky-Kurtz trio. In a farewell
concert at Melbourne Town Hall before
his return to Europe, he selected as the
highlight of his season the gigantic . Max
Reger variations and double fugue on a
theme by Bach, which has been a sort of
Everest for most outstanding musicians.
In places the work sounds like an argu-
ment between two mathematicians on the
rival merits of the Einsteinian and New-
tonian conceptions. The Russian vir-
tuoso skated through and around its in-
tricacies without once taking a tumble,
and if the audience didn’t get much
musical edification out of the perform-
ance it got a breath-taking display of
acrobatics. In his less fiery moments
with Chopin, Brahms and Mozart, Spiva-
kovsky showed his versatility to perfec-
tion.
« * * *
Giving a series of recitals at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall is Karel Zoubek, a
young Czech violinist who spent two and
a half years as a civilian internee in the
Tatura (Vic.) Internment Camp, his
offence being thtt he didn’t happen to
have a passport. The internment turned
out to be a fortunate circumstance for
Zoubek. It was his most productive
period as a composer, and several of his
works composed there are being pub-
lished in Australia and the U.S.A. Some
got into his programmes at the Town Hall
and proved very pleasant, if'unpreten-
tious. One was a succession of musical
portraits of women whose names were as
engaging as the music. Another was a
reminiscence of the bagpipes heard in
the camp at Tatura, the only recorded
instance of torture being applied to
p.-0.-w. in concentration camps in Aus-
tralia. It was a charming piece that
brought tears to the eyes of every Scotch-
man present.


No. 5 of Series
Ink Remover . *.
V
11J HEN a writing mistake or an inkstain is erased
|| by means of an “ink remover” several chemical
reactions take place. The colour of ordinary writing
ink is due partly to a blue dye and partly to iron
salts of gallic and tannic acids which on exposure to
the air develop a permanent black colour. One
bottle in an ink remover set contains a solution of
sodium hypochlorite and the other a dilute acid.
When mixed, these liquids react to produce a tiny
quantity of chlorine gas dissolved in water. The
chlorine, in its turn, reacts with the ink and two
chemical changes take place. The blue dye in the
ink is completely destroyed and the organic iron
salts react forming ferric chloride. In bulk this is
a yellow substance, but in the minute quantities
formed from handwriting and small ink marks it is
practically white, so that the ink is no
longer visible. The British chemical in-
dustry supplies all the chemicals used
in the manufacture of ink eradicators.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ICI
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates
IL-19-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT !
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM .
As always, the Doncaster at Randwick on
Saturday was a grand race. It amply recom-
pensed the tidy crowd of
comfort of a drizzling, wet, cold afternoon.
The track was very heavy. _
The original 150-odd Doncaster entries had
thinned down to two dozen, and for the first
time they were started from the barrier stalls.
Also for the first time the camera was usea
to judge a Doncaster, and Dudley Smith must
have been very grateful that he was able to
pass the responsibility on to the machine.
Wellington,- near the front all the way, was
going like a winner nearing the post until
joined by Crusader, finishing fast from a long
way back. This pair staged such an exciting
struggle, locked together over the last 50 yards,
that many did not notice Blue Legend flash
up on the extreme outside under the judge s
box, but he was the winner.
Beginning slowly, as he does, Blue Legend
commenced a sustained run at the three-furlongs
mark, but still looked hopeless as they rounded
the turn. Then H. Badger moved his mount
right out past the centre of the track where
the going was evidently firmer, and the game
little four-year-old unwound a Bernborough-like
finish. The camera was called on to decide all
the places, there being very little between Blue
Legend, Crusader, Wellington, Dutchman and
Victory Lad in that order.
Blue Legend has achieved the unequalled
record of winning two successive Doncasters
and, between times, an Epsom. Mildura is
the only previous horse to have won two
Doncasters, and the closest to Blue Legend’s
effort was that of Chatham, who won two
Epsoms and a Doncaster. Rather on the
smallish side, Blue Legend is a neat black
colt by the Limond stallion Waikare, winner
of the AJ.C. Metropolitan and the Q.T.C.
Derby. Blue Legend’s dam was the David
mare Dalarosa, so he has good Carbine and
Wakeful blood in his veins.
Time for the Doncaster was 1.415; on a
similar track last year Blue Legend took 1.40,
but to show his liking for any sort of goiqg
he won the Epsom in 1.365.
The rich Sires’ Produce Stakes was a gift
for the outstanding two-year-old Temeraire,
bringing his record to five wins from as many
starts. He went out at 7 to 4 on and gave
his backers no anxiety, leading all the way.
Deep Sea finished stoutly to get within half
a length of the winner, but Moore was whaling
into Deep Sea, while Cook, on the winner,
was merely sitting his mount and watching the
other disdainfully. Third was The Groom.
The Sires’ Produce is a sweepstakes of £3O
each (with forfeits of £3 or £1), this year plus
£5 each for the 74 sires nominated and. with
£4OOO added by the AJ.C. As nominator of
Felcrag, sire of the winner, P. Reynolds re-
ceives £l5O from the prize.
Run in the usual farcical manner, the St.
Leger went to Vigaro (D. Munro), who was
allowed to set any pace he pleased nearly all
the way. Passing the stand first time round
Munro had slowed the field to a near-walk,
yet none of the other four attempted to make
a break for it. Proctor challenged as they
turned for home, but Vigaro had him safely
held and won by a length, Sweet Chime run-
ning past Amelia and Concerto to pick up a
little easy third money; Sweet Chime hasn’t
missed a place at her last 10 starts and has
won at five of them.
Even allowing for the heavy track the time
for the St. Leger was very slow, 3.10$ —the
worst since Limarch took 3.17 in 1934, and
a very long way from Lucrative’s 2.575*. Speak-
ing of Limarch, his five-year-old son Loyal
March (G. Moore) made it three in a row by
downing Silver Rocks and Mentone in Satur-
day’s Tocal Handicap of 10 furlongs. Silver
Rocks seemed a bit stiff, Breasley finding him-
self hemmed in on the rails and unable to get
a clear run till they’d passed the distance; then
the Brueghel horse failed to get up by only
a neck.
Making her “positively last public appear-
ance” in the Autumn Stakes of a mile and
a half, Flight led them a merry dance till
collared by Russia (D. Munro) at the Leger.
Flight lasted it out to just pip Cordale for
second place.
Flight is to be sent to E. A. Underwood’s
Warlaby Stud to be mated with Dhoti. Need-
less to say, the progeny will not be for sale.
The Manitoba gelding Alderman deserved
full marks for his effort in winning the seven-
furlongs Vaucluse Handicap. For unruly be-
havior at the barrier he was sent to the extreme
outside of 23 runners, and from that near-
impossible possie had to carry 10.2 on a sodden
track. Fordyce had him smartly., away at the
start and in front entering the straight, but
he had to fight all the way from there to the
finish to hold off Kuvera Hope, to whom he
was conceding 231 b. The camera gave it to
Alderman, with Allied Power third.
At Randwick on Monday W. Briscoe brought
off a double for the D. Lewis stable in the
opening events, landing the Keelie colt Wilcuma
a winner from Sea Spartan and Eudesia in the
Wentworth Handicap (first division) and get-
ting Victory Lad home ahead of El Grandee
and Puffham in the C. W. Cropper Handicap,
both over the six-furlongs course. Always a
good performer at headquarters, the Brueghel
filly Shading, kept by D. Munro right up with
them all the way, comfortably outlasted Nizam’s
Ring and Santa Maria in the seven-furlongs
Easter Stakes.
Having a long-range pick in the Doncaster-
Sydney Cup double when the weights came
out, this page went for Blue Legend and Rain-
bird and in the selections before acceptances
went for Rainbird 1, Proctor 2, in the Cup.
It nearly came off, Blue Legend duly doing
his part of it and Proctor proving a shade
too good for Rainbird, with Spam third, mak-
ing three for Briscoe and the Lewis stable.
* ■* * *
Apart from bookmakers, who had a field
day, the luckiest man at Mentone on Satur-
day was jockey N. Powell. Approaching the
three furlongs peg during the running of the
Canterbury Handicap for two-year-olds his
mount, Fiddle, came a cropper in the middle
of the’big field. Powell appeared to be kicked
along by half the field, but got off with a
shaking. As they used to say in the R.A.A.F.,
“a good landing is one you can walk away
from.”
The winner of the Canterbury, running an
impressive race, was the Collingwood colt
Colin’s Pride (L. King). He began slowly
and was a dozen lengths from the leader when
Fiddle came down, obliging him to go out
wide right round the field. Colin’s fride finished
"Pluggers stiff pickin' a champeen harrier for his first opponent."
stoutly to head Solar’s Cub on the post; the
favorite, Birmingham, third.
Birmingham was the first of a long series
of punters’ downfalls, only one favorite man-
aging to do the right thing. Salvation for those
punters who lasted long enough came when
Noble Prince (W. Williamson) finished in great
style to down Fine Fettle and Keplerian in
the Ascot Thousand. A huge animal, reputed
to stand over 18 hands, Noble Prince is a
son of Greenwich, who was brought out with
Dhoti to race for the late Duke of Kent.
The manner in which punters keep backing
up on Cherie Marie is a testimony to in-
credible faith and perseverance. They made
the mare equal favorite with Panmure for the
Winchester Handicap, and again she failed,
finishing with only two behind her. The
recently excellent form of Real Guy 90 pro-
vincial tracks was pretty generally ignored.
Starting at 10 to 1, this Burlesque gelding,
ridden by W. Williamson, marked up his fourth
successive win, accounting for General Cun-
ningham and Kisiming.
Rather a different case was that of June
Actor (R. Hutchinson), who has been racing
with no success on the country tracks, but
ran put a very easy winner of the 13-furlongs
Bristol Handicap. Four lengths behind her,
Bonny Bob was also too good for the favorite,
Solsgrace.
Other winning efforts at Mentone were those
of Robin Fairlie (T. Unkovitch), who dished
Purple Star, Cyclotron and other three-year-
olds over a slowly-run mile, and Calawind
(A. Moon), who won the Hurdle from start
to finish, Sir Valiant and Jung Bahadur being
closest. Brought over from Perth originally
with the Newmarket in view, the Law Maker
gelding Lord Campbell (G. Bougoure) paid ex-
penses by carrying topweight of 9.1 to win
the mile Scarborough Handicap from Dureisani
and Opera Boy.
* * * «
The High Caste colt Mentmore scored his
second successive win in the six-furlongs Easter
Stakes at Flemington on Monday, finishing
on very stoutly to hold off the outsider Kong-
meng, with topweight Royal Mark third. Simi-
larly, the South Australian Air Fox made his
Melbourne record two in as many starts by
lumping topweight and soundly beating John
Masefield and Patio in the two-miles Seaholm
Hurdle. Under the lighter scale of weights for
the mile J. J. Liston Stakes Valcurl went a
lot better than on Saturday to win in excellent
style from Tea Cake and Nagation, In the
Easter Cup (one mile five furlongs) Field
Balloon finished brilliantly on the outside to
land the money from Knockarlow and Drama
in a photo.-finish.
* * * 1 *
Passed on in Melbourne a really great rider
—Bobby Lewis. Born in N-S.W., he did most
of his riding in Melbourne, though finding
time to bring home four winners of the A.J.C.
Derby. In Melbourne he won every important
race at least once: the Derby eight times, also
eight St. Legers, seven Oaks Stakes, nine Ascot
Vale Stakes, and a host of others. But Lewis
will always have a special place in Miller’s
for his remarkable record in the Melbourne
Cup, in which he had 33 mounts for four
wins, four seconds and a third. He first rode
in the big handicap in 1895 and was still fight-
ing fit to win on Trivalve in 1927. Bobby made
plenty of money and—unlike some of his con-
temporaries—invested it shrewdly.
• * * ♦
India’s captain;
Vijay Madhavji Merchant, captain of the
Indian team for Australia, is rated equal as
batsman to Ranjitsinhji. Aged 35 and standing
only sft. 7in., Merchant is a brilliant opener.
With the 1937 Indian XI in England he was
third batsman in the earlier matches, but, after
a spell with a broken finger, came back as
opener, and in a great season scored 1745 runs,
av. 51.32, including a fine 114 in the Man-
chester Test. Against the Australian Services
XI in India in 1946 Merchant’s innings in the
rep. matches were 27 and 69 (top score) in the
first, 12 and 155 not out in the second, and
11 and 35 in the third —309 runs, av. 61.80.
Joe Hardstaff, dead in England at 64, was
a hard-hitting batsman and the most likeable
of good fellows. Here with A. O. Jones’s
1907-08 team, his best effort in Tests was the
“double” of 61 and 72 (top score) at Adelaide,
and in all matches he piled up 1384 runs, av.
51.25. His son, “Young Joe,” was in the
1936-37 and 1946-47 teams in Australia.
« * * *
“Long-leg”: This season’s first-class matches
in Australia didn’t disturb any cricket records,
but young players showed sufficient form to
prophesy that Australia will have a grand team
for England; Bradman (captain), Hassett,
Miller, Morris (the four topped the thou-
sand runs this season), Tallon and Saggers
(wicketkeepers), Meuleman, Hamence, Carrigan,
Lukeman, Loxton ; with Lindwall, McCool, lan
Johnson, Toshack, Freer, Dooland bowlers. The
makings of a very strong batting, bowling and
fielding team.
“S.T.S.”: The most runs from one hit?
I have seen an eight all run in a good match
at Fenner’s ground in Cambridge. There was
a little garden annexe, and from a hit to
that all eight were run. I never supposed I
should wait for over 60 years to see that
beaten. It was on the Adelaide Oval, which
is narrow and, perhaps, too long. Kitto, a
defensive batsman keeping his wicket up for
Bradman, snicked one which just didn’t reach
the river boundary; as the fieldsman cleverly
saved it the batsmen (Bradman had a man to
run for him), ran five. The last was a quick
one, and with the ball back there was a wild
throw at the stumps 5 and it went to the
Cathedral boundary for a further four.
« * * *
Next year’s London Olympic Games
are threatened by European countries
seeking a revision of the constitution to
permit payment for the loss of time.
Britain and America have always opposed
such payment. Inaugurated in 1896, the
first Games were held at Athens, scene
of the ancient Greek contests 20 centuries
before. Trouble in the Balkans ended
the Greeks’ endeavor to promote the
Games in 1910. Berlin was allocated
the 1916 fixture. The First World War
silenced preparations. After a break
from 1912 the Games were revived at
Antwerp in 1920. Those slated for 1940
having been allotted to Tokyo, Japanese
authorities withdrew —“because of the
China situation,” they said. Finland took
the Games over, but the European war
ended that arrangement. Now, after a
lapse of 12 years, London for the second
time is the setting.
* * * *
“K.E.”: Big prizes in N.S.W. and Vic-
torian country centres have produced
a revival of professional running, re-
calling when the Botany and Carring-
ton Handicaps attracted the world’s top
athletes and fortunes were staked. May-
be it’s hard now to imagine horseraces
being postponed because of a clash with
the foot-runners; yet this acually hap-
pened in 1889. The actions—or lack of
the right actions —of runners eventu-
ally brought about their downfall, and
C. G. Wade’s Betting Act completed the
liquidation of the sport in N.S.W. In
Victoria the Stawell Easter Gift sur-
vived, and is still the world’s biggest
professional foot race. This year the
Stawell Club reached' its 70th year. From
the initial £24 in 1878 the prizemoney
has kept going up; in the Diamond
Jubilee year of 1937 the Gift was worth
£BlO.
* * * *
Of the southpaw persuasion, Roy Trea-
sure (9.6) thumped too hard for Frank
Donnelly (9.7) at Leichhardt and Frank
had already taken plenty when a left
to the bingy put him out of business.
Harry Stone’s Queensland protegd, Art
Denham (9.6), seemed at least a stone
lighter than A 1 Johnson (9.1 in the
supporting 12-rounder, and Denham
could have thought up better ways of
offsetting that difference than leaving his
chin wide open to Johnson’s right swings,
which hearty deliveries dropped him for
over 10 seconds in round six.


ŵ
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY *( Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;'
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Careful stocking
and
wise improvement
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
has long and varied experience in the
management of sheep and cattle proper-
ties embracing practically every district
of the Stale.
The Company does not believe in
over-stocking nor in over-improvement.
Judicious balance in such things is the
aim of the pastoral inspectors employed,
and their first consideration is always the
livestock.
If you would know more of the
Company’s Service and what it costs,
write for a copy of the booklet, “Your
Executor and Trustee.” It will be gladly
sent on request.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company 'Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGEINGY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cor mack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Pitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Representative; J. L. McElroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
THE AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL
ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD
&Ir. Edmund S. Paul, Chairman of the Company, at the annual meeting held on February
11, said:
The New Business amounts to £1,743,972, showing an increase over 1945 of- £426,841, or
practically 33| per cent. The expense of writing such a large volume of. New Business has
resulted in a smaller surplus available in the Life Department.
The Board regret the Department of the Interior are only now vacating our A.P.A.
Building, Sydney. We are still carrying on our business in our own building, and portion
in Federation House. Promises have been made, but so far such promises remain unful-
filled. The unfortunate Taxpayer pays, and the Government seem quite indifferent to the
amount of money being squandered in the renting of buildings of this nature.
An amount of £lO,OOO has been' transferred from “Reserve for Income Tax” as the
Auditor’s advise, the amount remaining, £30,000, is ample to cover all liabilities in this respect.
We have also had to transfer £9OO0 —“Dividend Equalisation Reserve” —and £5OO0 —“Re-
serve for Bonus to Policyholders”—in order to maintain the dividend of 2\ per cent.
The Commonwealth Life Assurance Act, 1945, which is now in force, protects Policy-
holders by limiting the percentage of profits, which shareholders may take—a very wise pre-
caution in case Directors should pay out dividends beyond this amount.
The other Life Companies make their Actuarial Valuation on a 2$ per cent, basis, and
The A.M.P. hold money in reserve, and are in the course of changing over from 3 per cent,
to 2j per cent., whereas we have valued on a 2\ per cent. There is no doubt we will shortly
have to come to that basis as the interest rate on Commonwealth Bonds is £3 2s.*'6d., or
deducting Income Tax, £2 15s. and the bottom of interest rates has not yet been reached
The effective London rate on loans now being floated is 2% per cent., and all loans in England
are being issued at this rate.
One of the reasons of the small dividends paid to Shareholders is this —War Claims to
the extent of £70,000 were paid without compensating premiums. This, w.e felt, was a reason-
able gesture to those who had joined the Armed Forces and paid the supreme sacrifice.
The investment in Bonds increased by £85,500 and Industrials, by £27,600 during the year.
As soon as the time is propitious, the Board has in hand plans for a large building pro-
gramme, consisting of modern Flats and Shops on valuable sites in the Metropolitan area
of Sydney, Newcastle and Perth.
We again stress the unfairness of Land Tax. The A.P.A. Chambers, Sydney, the A.P.A-
and Australian Buildings, Melbourne, and the A.P.A. Building, Newcastle, show a return
of 3.8 per cent, without Land Tax, but deducting Land Tax, 1.8 per cent. It is essential to
build to the full height on any land so as to minimise the paying of Land Tax.
Before I close, I would like to thank the Shareholders for their continued support, evi-
denced by the largest number of proxies received for the past ten years.’
Mr. Thompson, in seconding the adoption of the report, emphasised the adverse results
to the Company in the cheap money policy of the Government on the one hand, an
rising costs of conducting business on the other; that, whereas the costs of business
interest rates should run on parallel lines, the Government was contriving to make tnc
travel in opposite directions.
Business, Rollery. Etc.
The Geneva Trade Talks
The International Trade Organisation
of the United Nations will hold its in-
augural conference at Geneva this month.
A preparatory committee, which met in
London in October last, hammered out
the framework for the talks in the form
of a draft charter. The central aim, with
which there is general agreement, is to
stimulate world trade on a durable basis,
and so contribute to maintenance of
“full” employment and rising standards
of living by reduction of “harmful” trade
barriers.
It will be the task of the conference to
clothe the aims and principles put for-
ward by the committee with practical
detail. This will be no easy matter, since
war has changed the pattern of inter-
national trade, and every nation is en-
titled to adopt and maintain, without
external interference, form of
economic organisation it prefers. Also,
rules that apply to diverse trading systems
—some based on individualism, some on
collectivism and others on a combina-
tion of the two —must necessarily differ
in detail; the difficulty will be to prevent
them differing in principle.
One of the chief problems will be to
harmonise Empire trade conceptions with
those of other nations, especially the
United States. Among others things, the
U.S, seeks a substantial reduction of
tariffs and elimination of preferences and
quotas—except in specified cases, such as
the' U.S. arrangements with Cuba and the
Philippines. In other words the U.S.
sponsors the opinion that British prefer-
ences are an obstacle to the revival ot
world trade, and therefore prejudicial to
world economic progress.
This opinion fails to recognise the faci
that British countries made a better re-
covery from the depression than most
other nations, and assumes that Britain
and the Dominions can now pay for their
imports in “hard currency” or gold as
easily as in sterling. Actually Britain’s
balance-of-payments troubles has created
a scarcity of dollars. The root of these
troubles is largely in the switching of
British food purchases from European
countries, which suffered heavy damage
and economic dislocation during the war,
to “hard-currency” countries. Also, a
large proportion of Britain’s investments
in the U.S. had to be sold, with conse-
quent reduction of invisible exports.
Meanwhile, the American loan to Britain,
one of the strings to which is abolition
of Empire preferences, fills the gap. But
if the loan is to be repaid, British goods
must be allowed to enter America in
greater volume than they do today, other-
wise further difficulties will arise which
might lead to the creation of yet further
“lines of credit.”
It was the U.S. Smoot-Hawley tariff
of the early 1930’s that drew members of
the British Commonwealth together in a
system of Imperial trade preferences.
This system, consummated at the Ottawa
conference in 1932, is a maze of fiscal
arrangements, whereby Empire countries
admit one another’s goods at lower tariff
rates than are imposed upon the same
class of products originating elsewhere.
Pre-war about 62 p.c. of Australia’s total
exports was to Empire countries, and
about 59 p.c. of imports came from the
same countries.
According to the Commonwealth Year
Book, Australian exports to Britain dur-
ing the calendar year 1939 totalled
£61,984,000, of which more than half re-
ceived preferential treatment. Had the
lot been subject to British duties on
foreign goods, an extra £5,500,000-odd
would have been payable in duty. This
amounts to a rebate of 17 p.c. of the
value of goods receiving preferential treat-
ment.
The Australian preference for British
goods is based on the principle that
protective duties will give U.K. pro-
ducers full opportunity of reasonable
“If any suspicious characters make y ’ nervous while I'm knockin' this bank
job off y' better ring the p'lice!”
competition on the basis of economic and
efficient production, except in the case
of industries not fully established. The
value of Australian preferential imports
from the U.K. in 1939-40 amounted to
£47,608,000, on which £4,217,000 was
collected in duty. Under the general
tariff an extra £9,189,000 would have
been collected in duty on the same goods.
Both Britain and the Dominions will
need to be assured that the U.S. will buy
their exportable products on terms equal
to or more favorable than they now ob-
tain in Empire markets before they agree
to any arrangements that would reduce
their chances of sales in these markets.
The dependence of Empire products upon
Empire markets will not be removed by
elimination of bilateral agreements.
No many-sided trade arrangement, how-
ever impressive, could compensate
Empire countries for anything that might
compromise inter-imperial relations.
When Mr. Churchill agreed to the
Atlantic Charter in 1941, he accepted the
American conception of equality of trade
with the reservation of “existing com-
mitments.” In connection with the Lend-
Lease agreement of the following year,
he said “I did not agree to Article 7 of
the Mutual Aid agreement without hav-
ing previously received from the President
the definite assurance that we were no
more committed to the abolition of
Imperial preference than the American
Government was committed to the aboli-
tion of their protective tariffs.”
The De Bernales Tangle
Claude Albo de Bernales is in trouble
again. At the end of last month Mr.
Justice Atkinson, of the King’s Bench
Division of the British Courts, ordered
him to pay English income tax on
£1,382,000, which was considered to be
the profit on sales of certain mining
shares, unless he could prove that the
mines in question actually increased in
value on transfer of ownership from the
Australian Machinery and Investment Co,
to 31 other Australian cos.
De Bernales and his family owned
most of the shares in A.M.1., which was
formed in Australia in 1925. Later
A.M.I. bought the rights of a number of
abandoned goldmining ventures in West-
ralia, paying in all approximately
£AIIB,OOO for them. These rights were
subsequently transferred, about the time
England went off the gold standard, to 31
Westralian cos. in exchange for shares
to an aggregate nominal value of
£A3,500,000. Then, in the early 1930’5,
De Bernales formed seven cos. in London.
To these cos. A.M.I. sold the shares it
had acquired, or most of them, in th
31 Westralian cos., receiving in all abou
£1,500,000 stg. The difference betwee
this figure and the £AIIB,OOO originall
paid for the rights the Court held to b
taxable profit, subject to proof of in
crease in value of, the mines as ahead
mentioned.
In 1941 half a dozen of the cos. De
Bernales had formed in London decidec
to .wind up voluntarily, and transfer thei
assets to a Westralian co., to be known
as Australian Gold Production; but th
British Treasury refused its consent. In
March, 1946, the British Courts mad
an order for the compulsory winding up
of these cos. Action is still pendin
against De Bernales and 34 others for
alleged breaches of the English Com
panics’ Act, including flotation misrepre
sentations.
Post-war trade buoyancy has boosted
Maoriland exports for the first clear
year of peace to £99,406,000, which leaves
the 1945 peak £17,870,000 behind, and
sets an all-time record. Is this the crest
of the prosperity wave? Leaders have
been warning Maorilanders that exports
can’t keep on expanding if fewer cows
are milked and meat shipments fall; but
against this wool has brought in extra
millions lately. For those in quest ot
guidance, trends after 1918 are not much
help, because a bumper year in 1919,
when a then export record of £53,907,925
lifted hopes high, gave place to an ebb
in the early ’twenties, and a flood of
imports tilted the balance in the wrong
direction. Today imports have to be
squeezed through a bgttleneck of per-
mits, restrictions and quotas, and there’s
a roomy margin of £27,772,000 between
sales and purchases in the favorable trade
balance for 1946. Imports that haven’t
come to charge yet, because Britain can't
keep pace with orders, will swallow up a
big slice of the accumulated sterling funds
of a hundred, millions (Maoriland cur-
rency). Maoriland merchants and manu-
facturers are bracing themselves for worse
shortages of goods and materials before
the corner is turned.
• * * •
Moulded Products (A/asia), Ltd., re-
cently added a 2 p.c. bonus to its ord.
div,, making 10 p.c. for the year 1946.
Profits prior to taxation jumped from
£23,417 for 1945 to £64,230 last year.
But the taxgatherer, who called for £BB7B
in 1945, is expected to make off with
£44,851 of last year’s takings. This is
due to the incidence of war-time (co.)
tax, which gobbles 78 p.c. of any profit
remaining after provision for ordinary
income tax and allowance of 12 p.c. on
capital invested in the business. So,
although the improvement in profit be-
fore taxation was £40,813, the Govern-
ment is expected to pocket all but £4840
of the gain. And this refers only to taxes
on income and profits, not to sales tax,
payroll tax and other imposts; and
when the shareholder receives his div. the
Government steps in for another cut. Any
decline in the current year’s earnings,
owing to industrial disturbances, will be
largely offset by reduction in tax provi-
sion.


DEVELOP
your
BUSINESS
&
■jgjoC
K
pi
39
iw
with the help of the “Wales”
Business men are vigorously seeking to
overcome the current scarcity of goods and
to improve their services.
Those who have sound projects for the
expansion of trade and commerce are invited
to discuss their credit requirements with the
Bank of New South Wales. Each proposal
will be considered on its merits.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
ww
Xl23d
It
It
SAYS WESTERN FARMER, ARTHUR HOWELL
You can look around this farm and see the
flourishing crops, and at to-day’s prices
they’re good paying propositions. But you
can’t see Farmer Howell’s best crop . . . the
one which needs no work, and which drought,
flood, fire and pests can’t harm.
“It’s very satisfying to sec the new crops
spring up after the rains,” said Mr. Howell,
“but at the back of one’s mind there is al-
ways the fear of frosts, hail, or withering heat.
“I’ve found a sure way to overcome the fear
of all these setbacks—simply by investing
all my surplus money in Commonwealth
Securities.
“Safely earning better than bank interest,
my money just grows and grows, regardless
of the seasons.”
First-grade Cumberland cricketer and fast
bowler, Arthur lives at Emu Plains with his
family. There are three children. A typical
outdoor Australian, he is a son of the famous
international, Bill Howell, who will be long
remembered for his prodigous batting ex-
ploits. The most famous of these was the
hitting of a ball clean over the tower at
the Cricket Ground into Moore Park.
A Golden Harvest for You, Too!
Plant your savings and surplus money safely arid
profitably in Security Bonds and reap a golden
harvest later on.
Bankers, economists and trade union leaders all
agree that now is the time to save, not to spend.
Start now to ensure a prosperous future; make an
advance subscription to the Third Security Loan.
H
m
m
■ g si
m
■
■I
:
m
MAKE AN ADVANCE
subscription TO TUB
*The Third Security Loan opens on April 15:
Bonds will be available in denominations of £lO,
£5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO, paying interest at the
rate of 3i% for 12 years or 2% for three years.
You can make a fully paid advance subscrip-
tion at once, and interest will be paid from the
date of your application. Invest to-day through
any Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
Listen to the
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL
QUIZ CHAMPIONSHIP OF 1947
k state FinaI—CAPITAL CITY V. COUNTRY
All Stations, Monday 14th April, 8 p.m.
(South Australia, 7.30 p.m.)
P.35L.29.83. •«
“Graz”: Total wool exported from
Australia for the seven months ending
January 31 was 2,563,161 bales, valued at
£70,856,000. J. F. Murphy, chairman of
the Wool Realisation Commission, esti-
mates that the season’s total may exceed
£9O million. Average price for greasy
was 24d. Australian wool held by J.O. in
July, 1945, was 6,890,000 bales, and Mr.
Murphy expects that 3,107,000 will be
left in stock by next June. Offerings of
stock-pile wool began in Sydney in
March, 35,727 bales fetching on the
average 40 p.c. more than when
appraised; 250,000 bales of old stock
will be offered before the season ends in
June. Larger quantities have been sold
on British markets, where increased offer-
ings failed to bring prices down to British
limits. In March, 1946, Australia had
96,000,000 shfcep, but drought losses since
have been heavy. It will take at least
three or four years of favorable condi-
tions to get flocks back to normal.
Graziers, after hearing that revenue from
the contributory charge on the present
clip would be £.4\ million, and charges
against the fund would not be one-third
of that amount, are protesting against the
impost. They hold that a charge of
0.5 p.c would be ample.
* * * *
Alfred Lawrence and Co. is to lift
nominal capital to £250,000, by creating
150,000 new £1 ords., of which 23,145
are to be offered to those on the register
at par, nine for 25. The new money is
wanted for extension of factory buildings
and plant, and to carry more stocks and
book debts. Established in Melbourne in
1882, as wholesale and manufacturing
chemists and cork merchants, and
formed into a public co, in 1927,
moderate profits were earned pre-war.
War bumped up turnover and profits have
continued high since. For seven years to
1946, 10 p.c. was paid, sweetened
with a 2j p.c. bonus during the last three
of them, when less than half the profit
was distributed. Net asset backing is
465. per £1 ord. share. Costs are mount-
ing, and current industrial troubles are
no help in keeping costs down. Still, the
wide margin between earnings and dis-
tributions gives the 12| p.c. a comfort-
able appearance, for the time being at
any rate.
* * * *
0.T., Ltd., which took over John
Dickson’s mineral-water factory at Prah-
ran (Vic.) in 1909, and began to manu-
facture “0.T.” and other non-alcoholic
beverages, now turns out many of the re-
quirements of the family pantry, includ-
ing soups, custard powders, coffee essence,
vinegar, canned fruits, plum-puddings,
spaghetti, etc., plus ice-cream cones,
straws, milk wads, and corrugated and
wooden cases. Production is concen-
trated at two factories, the one at
Prahran (Vic.) and another at Botany
(N.S.W.), whilst at Mornington (Vic.), the
co. grows passion-fruit, strawberries,
raspberries and tomatoes. A London
subsidiary, formed in 1913, proved highly
profitable. Offers for this business of
£200,000 in 1927, £250,000 in 1928 and
£315,000 in 1929 were refused. Later in
1929 an offer of £410,000 cash from
Schweppes, Ltd., was accepted. The sur-
plus on the deal was £362,587, of which
£133,598 was capitalised in a one-for-one
bonus share issue, and the balance was
placed to reserve. Following the sale the
parent’s div. dropped from 20 p.c. for
the three years to 1928 to 10 p.c. on the
enlarged capital in 1929, and was passed
in 1930. For the five years to the close
of last accounts 8 p.c. was paid, sweet-
ened with a bonus of -2 p.c. in 1945.
Although the profit rate on ord. capital
rose from 19.3 p.c. for 1945 to 24.2 p.c.
for 1946, the bonus was not repeated. At
535. the f.-p. pound ords. return a shade
under 3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, with
possibilities. Net tangible backing is
695. 6d.
* * * *
Dunlop’s interim ord. div. is at the rate
of 7 p.c. p.a., same as for the five years
to 1941. Profits dropped in 1942, owing
to the narrow margin on defence con-
tracts, which constituted the bulk of
turnover. At the same time the div. eased
to 5 p.c. p.a., and remained steady until
the close of accounts in 1946. Net earn-
ings, which covered the pref. div. and
8.2 p.c. on ord. capital last term, cap
be expected to further improve despite
a heavy increase in overhead. In
November last two new subsidiaries,
Dunlop Semtex Pty. (flooring contrac-
tors) and Dunlop Chemicals Pty. (indus-
trial chemicals), each with a nominal
capital of £lOO,OOO, were registered in
Melbourne, Through the Barnet Glass
subsidiary, Dunlop’s holding in Bradford
Cotton has been increased to 177,031
shares, or 13.3 p.c. of Bradford’s paid
capital. Other subsidiaries include Latex
Products, manufacturing rubber uphol-
stery, whose prospects are “decidedly
promising”; Dunlop Weatherproofs is
producing several thousand garments
weekly, and reported “singularly success-
ful” ; and Bentley Bros., manufacturers
of gut. for tennis rackets A,t 365. 3d.
Dunlop’s ords. yield £3 11s. 9d. p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis.
• * * * *
It hasn’t been all plain sailing for
Maoriland’s three officially licensed tyre
manufacturing concerns. First off the
mark was Reid New Zealand Rubber
Mills, Ltd., Auckland member of
the trio, which expects to be in
. full production by the end of 1947.
Dunlop New Zealand, Ltd., the mil-
lion and a half Wellington concern, which
was deluged with applications when it
made its £BOO,OOO new capital issue last
August, reports a profit of £3773 for the
year ended December. But after meeting
preliminary exes, there wasn’t enough left
to pay the pref. div. (£1687), whicn is
guaranteed by the big English Dunlop
Co. The year was characterised by
“delays and disappointments” connected
with plant deliveries. Third in the
chain, Firestone Tyre and Rubber Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., which will operate at
Christchurch, has not been much in the
public eye. It’s not known yet whether
the three cos. will be zoned, restricted
to making certain sizes and types of
tyres, or free to compete Dominion-
wide.
* « * •
Sounds overstretched, but ex-soldiers,
who were never more house-conscious
than now, declare there are between
15,000 and 17,0.00 unoccupied homes in
Maoriland. They blame landlords and
the Fair Rents Act, which landlords say
has destroyed rental values for property,
and they call for “vigorous measures.”
The Government is going more cannily
than a while ago, because it’s beginning
to see that control is a boomerang. Rents
held down to levels that were outdated
years ago have made landlords shy of
renting. Ex-soldiers say that if a man
owns two or more homes he should have
to decide which he wants to live in, and
let the other or others to returned men.
Truth is that owners have been so badly
bitten they’re shy of any arrangement.
* * * *
Melbourne-controlled Victory Tin,
which is developing a sluicing lease in
the New England (N.S.W.) district, hopes
to gather most of its 5000-yards-a-month
plant locally. It claims 500,000 c.y. of
IJ-lb. ground, plus a probable half-million
cubic yards of similar value. Including
600 paids to the vendor, 2000 shares
have been issued and called up to £2 each.
Buyers offer a small premium for the
scrip, without attracting sellers.


ABOURIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: We got into an empty old
house down on the Yarriafmbiack (Vic.)
and made camp for the night. Just be-
fore dark an ancient battler arrived,
emitted greetings and spread his nap in
another room. My mate and I yarned
on the doorstep for awhile, and the old
cove, though he sat on his haunches
hard by, said little. Presently we turned
in, observing that the breeze had dropped
and the air turned sultry. Pretty soon a
thunderstorm came up and filled the
night with sound and the darkness with
vivid flashes. At the height of the storm
there was a tremendous crash, with a
simultaneous green flash that lit up the
whole place and a streak of fire which
seemed to shoot through the open door,
flicker in the room and then die out. The
storm passed and we heard movements ip
the next room and discovered the old
cove rolling his knot. “I’m orf,” he said
with a resigned determination. “I bin
chased be lightning all over this blasted
country ever since I crossed the Murray.
I’m headin’ straight back for Noo South.
Man can’t get a night’s rest or stay in a
decent camp without some blinded
thunder comes round chuckin’ fire at him.
Gripes, it’s bad enough in Noo South,
with ants an’ snakes an’ motor-cars an’
things, but a man don’t have spirits
flingin’ lightnin’ at him. Hooroo, youse
blokes.” And he tramped into the night.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: In answer to the plea (B.
26/3/’47) for means of keeping a kero,
lamp going without a glass, we were once
glassless in an outback hut with a month
to wait for a new one. We cut a 4in. by
2in. vertical hole in one side of an empty
■kero.-tin, placed the lamp therein and, by
turning the tin to dodge draughts,
managed to get enough light for two of
us to read by.
* * * *
“Old Junee”: When anybody is
troubled by an invasion of ants there is
always advice in plenty about the best
method of outing them, but I’ve never
seen one more efiicient than that adopted
by a Riverina bloke who came home one
night and found the missus complaining
about ants and was shown a tiny hole
at the junction of wall and floor through
which the busy line entered and departed.
“Righto,” he said, “I’ll fix ’em Saturday
when I have a bit o’ time.” Came Satur-
day and the destroyer, armed with a
slipper, squatted by that hole and bashed
every ant that appeared. It took him
three hours or more, but he wiped the
whole colony out. In those parts it isn’t
wise to bring up examples of patience.
* * * * .
“Gravelsnatcher”; I’m trying to deter-
mine which of my many candidates I
should train for the Allcomers’ Stakes to
be held in Perth next spring. I’ve got a
rosebush, rising three years old, which
can produce a water shoot at the rate
of six inches a day, a speed which draws
cynical laughter from the bamboo clump.
That grass races into the blue at the
rocket speed of half an inch an hour,
fully extended. My runner beans could
run rings around them, but the political
cows couldn’t go straight if they were
grown in a rifle barrel. Had something
really good in a line of pumpkins. I got
the seed from a crop that had been grown
in Canberra by ofle of Calwell’s reffos
at a time when one of Eddie Ward’s
boxers was training to come south and
fight the Japs or something. Could they
move! Thought I had the race sewn up
until they started to flower. Came a
swarm of bees. Some cow yelled “Zeros,”
and with a wail like an air-raid siren
they were off. I copped a heavy bill for
damages—they strangled cows, tramped
down crops and held up traffic —but I
wouldn’t have minded that. What narked
me was the fact that, since the bees
couldn’t get near them, the flowers
weren’t fertilised, and I got no seed. Now
I’ve got to start all over again.
* * * *
“Bughouse”; “Kenwood” (B. 19/2/’47)
is miles off the mark when he compares
soil acidity and its action on metals with
the digestive processes of the emu. The
action of either sulphuric or hydrochloric
acid in soil on metal is purely chemical,
while the action which takes place in an
animal’s stomach is really a process of
fermentation, the most active part of
which is due to the action of bacteria.
As any gardener knows, a pumpkin or
a melon seed will resist soil action for
months, yet will dissolve inside a bird’s
crop within an hour. Animal heat is also
a factor which assists in this process of
digestive fermentation.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; “Salmon
Gums” (B. 19/3/’47) is evidently not
acquainted with the bagmen of western
Queensland of other days or he wouldn’t
refer to them as “swagmen.” They were
mostly out-of-work stockmen or station
employees who travelled the stockroutes
with horse and packhorse because dis-
tances were too great between home-
steads. Although quick-boiling quarts
and billies were part of their set-up, their
pride was their horses, and their ambi-
Willie has just started his course for the piano in ten easy lessons
tion, it seemed, to be mounted on a good
stamp of a touchy ambler; they drove
their “packs” and loose horses before
them. One of these blokes rode up to
the Toorak homestead with 37 horses
when I was there, and he insisted on
putting all the mokes in the horse pad-
dock. Eventually he was employed as a
boundary-rider out at the Dickies’ Creek
hut, but you never referred to him as
that more than once—“he was manager
of that part of the run.” He would tell
you he was a squatter—only the banks
were minding his place for a while —and
all he had taken off the place was the
blood of “these there here horses.”
Among them was an exceptionally good
sort of a thoroughbred mare, and some
of the boys at the homestead thought if
they could lease her they could win the
Julia Creek Bangle. But that’s only what
they thought. One Sunday when they
rode out and asked him the old man was
so incensed he ordered them off that part
of the run. He hadn’t been specially
breeding horses for 40 years to have them
knocked about on the blanky racecourse.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Tom was one of those coves
who, once having seen a snake disappear
into hiding, left nothing unturned to get
it. The haystack, the chaffshed floor and
the cellar had been ripped apart in fruit-
less endeavors to get the latest Joe fre-
quenting the place, and one morning it
was seen to slither into the large wood-
heap. Tom, though a bit dubious about
the hollow ones, hopped in and tossed
the logs to a fresh stack a few feet away.
Sure enough, the last half-dozen yielded
a snake which wriggled rapidly and en-
thusiastically into the new heap. By now
incensed, Tom gathered a pile of kind-
ling, set fire to the wood and kept watch.
Five snakes slid forth, and others may
have perished in the blaze. You couldn’t
drive a 4in. nail into the spout of any
log Tom brings in for firewood now.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”; Rodondo (B.
19/2/’47) is a name which links oddly
with other worthwhile-exploring islands
along Australia’s south coast. Out from
Sydney early in 1894 s.s. Rodondo, with
a load of optimists bound for Cool-
gardie, crashed on what is known as
Pollock’s Reef. With difficulty boats
were launched, and the couple of hundred
castaways found refuge on one of the
islands of Recherche Archipelago, situ-
ated at the western end of the Great
Bight. All were ultimately taken off.
Cause of the disaster —a big steam boiler,
booked for the W.A. goldfields, which
was carried as deck cargo; its mass
affected the compass so that the captain
kept too much to the north. The
Recherches are still there and have plenty
of craggy islets for anyone with a flair
for island exploration.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: The Bumbles of Bobbegong
are holding a meeting in the dusty, corru-
gated-iron hall. The Chief Bumble occu-
pying the chair rises up and announces
that “We are gathered ’ere t’night t’ see
about fixin’ a few culverts an’ things an’
beeyutifying the township f’r the Guv’-
nor’s wife’s visit in a coupla weeks.” Old
Henderson, who takes the opposition on
any matter, immediately chips in on the
matter of cost and the “false pertences
of doin’ up the joint with frilldolls jist
f’r the sake o’ showin’ orf t’ the Guv’nor’s
missus.” If allowed he will go on all
night, during the first hour swinging from
one view to the other as the mood takes
him and then proceeding to air at great
length his aversion to tourists cluttering
up the district. But he is deposed in the
clamor from the back seat demanding the
why and wherefore of the vice-regal visit.
“Well, we don’t know much jist at the
moment,” the Chief Bumble says. “But
Carter got a telegram the day before
yestiddy sayin’ that the Governess would
be ’ere on the twenty-sixth. Seems the
burroocrats mus’ be runnin’ the joint
where he’s bin writin’ f’r someone t’ teach
his kids, ’cause that’s where the wire
came from.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: I’d tried tins, mirrors, scare-
crows and every other weird and wonder-
ful preventive measure recommended for
home orchards* but still the birds got
first pick of my fruit. I even got hay-
band and tied loads of newspapers on
the trees, only to come out later and
find a couple of magpies scrapping over
who should have the hay-band when
they’d untied the knots. Then I heard
old man Rogers had hit on a solution, so
I rode over. Rogers had erected a tall
pole at ehch end of his orchard and
run a single wire between. Attached to
the wire with ring, chain and swivel was
a big speckled chickenhawk. The chain
was light, and the tethered bird coul’d
fly the length of the orchard and land
comfortably on the top of either pole.
Rogers fed him well, provided shelter
in bad weather and made quite a pet of
the big fowl. His trees were heavy with
fruit, and there wasn’t another bird in
the orchard. It’s a grand idea, all right,
but what gets me is where and how the
blazes a bloke gets hold of a big live
hawk.
* * ♦ «
“Dicky Beach”: “John Dory” (B.
19/3/’47) is badly off his bearings when
he says that the biggest of all sharks are
not found in tropic waters, and that the
biggest ever landed was 30ft. long. Just
as we had got the engine of our 30ft.
launch back into going order a mile or
so outside the Townsville (N.Q.) break-
water our abo. deckboy quavered through
the skylight; “Be-ee-eeg feller shark ’e
come.” Less than 20ft. from the boat
there lay, just under the surface, a white
shark which overlapped her by a good
3ft. at bow and stern alike. We were glad
to see the huge brute sheer off when the
engine started. Of captured specimens
biggest I’ve seen was 32ft. 6in. over all,
also a white shark. It was hooked on a
cask-buoyed set-line off Cape Sidmouth
(N.Q.), finished off with rifle fire and
towed ashore for extraction of the oil
from its huge liver. McCulloch, Fishes of
N.S.W., states that the white shark attains
a length of 40ft. and ranges over all
warm and temperate seas. Not many
years ago there were well-attested reports
of a shark measuring over 80ft. having
been seen off Port Stephens (N.S.W.).
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Many a bushwhacker be-
sides “Choom” (B. 19/2/’47) has, after a
day’s travel, found himself back where
he started from. Out past Kumalpi
(W.A.) Donovan and his mate left us
early one morning with the expressed in-
tention of trying the country still further
out. Two evenings later we wfere sur-
prised, and they too, to find them back
at our camp. The explanation was
simple. Camped the first night out on
hard ironstone country, Don and Co. had
omitted to take bearings. Starting again
in the morning, they had spent the day
tramping back over country previously
travelled. And that can happen even to
old-timers should they become careless.
Few bushwhackers carry a compass, so
if one doesn’t take notice of the lay of
the sun on the previous day’s travel it is
easy to start off in a wrong direction in
the morning. Much tramping around a
camp soon beats the soil into a circle.
Have known bushies who laid out a line
of stones as an indicator of next day’s
direction. For myself, I always drew a
long line as a pointer—silly, but it saved
a lot of worry.
• * * 9
“Solitude”; We hadn’t been up over
half an hour when Seventyfiver dis-
covered he’d lost his pipe from his hip
pocket. Knowing there’d be no peace
till it was recovered I joined in the
search, and soon it was located. On our
way to the yards a bit later he again
began slapping his hips and looking on
the ground. “It’s a blasted hole in me
pocket,” he growled. “An’ a man gets
used t’ droppin’ things in that side.”
Again the pipe was restored. An hour
of odd jobs, then I spotted him wander-
ing round the yards, once more searching
the ground. “Well, I never asked y’ t’
look f’r it,” he defended stoutly, as in
a sarcastic silence I followed my nose
to the offending prize and held it out.
“Y* joined in y’rself.” The rest of the
day he spent dummying a boundary
fence, but as I came over the rise that
evening there he was, walking slowly up
and down, his eyes concentrating urgently
on the ground. With a sigh I dismounted
and started back along the fence. Ten
minutes later I turned, and was still
searching when I came abreast of the old
bloke. “Just shows what moisture ’ll
do t’ this country, Sol,” he remarked
solemnly, as he straightened up. “That’s
four different clovers I’ve found here
that’s shot since the rain.” And with-
out a quiver he drew forth his pipe for
a smoke,
* * ♦ ♦
“Frank Mauri”; Flying-foxes are
much prized by the mountain natives of
Nakenai, New Britain. The meat is a
luxury ; the fur ornaments are spears and
shields, and the thin wing-bones are used
as needles in matmaking. But the ani-
mals roost on the coast, only flying over
the hills in long lines at dusk or by night.
The natives expend much labor in cutting
narrow swathes through the timber on
the mountain ridges. Through these
lanes the flying-foxes learn they can
avoid high winds and save altitude. In
a fe\v weeks there is quite a traffic.
Then the natives rig nets across th?
openings and into these the giant batj
blunder. The traps are effective only
for a few. nights, for the survivors be-
come wary and a new lane must be cut
elsewhere.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The picture of Chips
Rafferty galloping cattle through the
termite “cemeteries” along the Adelaide
River, N.T., brings home to southerners
the size of the northern termite. But the
builders of those giant mounds are the
least troublesome of the white-ants that
afflict the north. For there are three
kinds, the worst being a species with
the same habits as the smaller termite of
the south; building around trees or any-
thing else of an edible nature. Darwin,
in the days when it was known as Palmer-
ston, was built originally of wood, mostly
painted white. Inside a couple of years
only the paint shell remained. The
next effort was with stone ; up such walls
the termite rapidly built covered cause-
ways which enabled the tribe to dine on
the roof rafters. But such cellulose ban-
dits have the virtue of being a delectable
item of food —for the abos of the past,
and a few of the present. Gathering a
hatful from rotten wood a gin will toss
them in her coolamon, sift out the debris
and present them, delicately toasted, as a
hors d’ceuvre to her lord. The secret of
this trick is in the size of the insect:
few are less than lin,; most are as thick
through as a full grain of wheat.
THE CREEK.
Above the present culvert there still lie
The slippery cobbles of the earliest ford
By which men crossed the creek and, passing by
Tall trees of promise', rode to lands more broad
Than these green foothills: harsh lands of the
plain
Withered sheep pasture, venture, drought and
pain.
Small farms began to circle the hills around
The ford where horses slipped and horsemen
swore,
Where women’s skirts were spoiled and children
drowned.
They changed it, packed the road, the old creek
floor
Was levelled; thus winter floods are seldom
known:
The past remains, preserved in cobble stone.
In parching summer there is a cool place
Beneath the culvert, there the slimy stones
Grow tentacles of sensuous green grace
To float upon the water, and the tones
Of curling ferns and tiny plants that creep
Merge with soft mosses growing moist and deep.
The creek runs down through fields, deserted,
wild,
Past an old orchard whose neglected trees
Still bear sour crops well known to every child
For several miles about, and blackberries
Trail over acres and arch from bank to bank,
Sheltering thin snakes and eels in waters dank.
Further, again in bush, the stream becomes
An underground wanderer and hides its courses,
Bursts forth in a ravine of giant gums,
Sprays over boulders, mad with pent-up forces
Tumbles down gorges to the Hawkesbury,
Is lost, and flows sedately to the sea.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


“Wester”: One of the most remark-
able bush papers I ever mst was out in
western N.S.W. A weekly, it was run by
an elderly cove and his daughter, the
girl attending to the business end and her
dad to the setting-up and printing. With-
out a lino, machine, he had the most
casual views on type-setting, and never
bothered how a line was filled out, so
that any word was likely to be broken at
the end of the line anywhere and turned
over into the nexfi “Which” was often
set as “w-hich” and “speaking” as
“speakin-g” and so on, and frequently
the punctuation mark from the preceding
line was set in front of the following one.
We had our moments reading that paper,
and what could happen when a line or
two were transposed is best shown by the
following, when some poultry notes got
mixed with the personal column:
Mr. J. Strong, who has been a bl-
oody old hen with the crickens h-
acksmith for some years, will now s-
educe the proportion of the flock, h-
ell his business and go farming,
aving white eye,
Jim’s missus, a woman with a sense of
humor, remarked that it showed how
necessary it was for her to get Jim away
from the town.
“Ex-M.L. A.” * “Zake” (B. 19/3/’47)
had better be careful how he uses “Wagga
rug,” because its component parts (two
cornsacks sewn together) are not
generally known. A constituent going to
the country once asked me to get him a
Government blanket. '/Tliat would have
meant delay, and I suggested making him
up a Wagga rug. Next day I offered it to
him and he said “What, a blanky chaffbag!
I thought you were going to give me a
possum rug.” At the next elections he
followed me round asking me if I said a
chaffbag was plenty good enough to
cover any working man. The long ex-
planation needed didn’t appear to carry
much conviction.
« » ♦ ♦
“Atlanta”: Fishing at Kow Swamp
(Vic.), which fills from the Murray
through Taylor’s Creek, F. J. Marett
must have gone close to the record for
the one that didn’t get away. His five-
day taJly of 12 cod, averaging 501 b.,
was surpassed three months later when
in 14 days he had the remarkable catch
of 40 fish, weighing 14121 b. A few days
later the old man of the Murray wan-
dered along—a 106-pounder which went
4ft. 9in. in length and 39in. around the
girth. In three months over 40001 b. of
cod was landed, including one 95-
pounder. On the Melbourne market
these fish brought top prices, the 1061 b.
cod realising the highest price per pound
of fish from the Murray in 35 years.
*** * *
“Bo”: Old Crandon was preparing his
midday meal at his shack when his dog
Scratches a whiskery, shaggy-haired cross
between a foxie and an Airedale, trotted
in, dropped a greasy old felt hat at his
feet and started barking. Crandon looked
at the dog and said “Where’d y’ pinch
that? Take it out, boy,” and went on
with the job in hand. The dog con-
tinued to bark and then put a paw on
his master’s trouser-leg. Crandon picked
up the hat and slung it outside. Scratcher
shot his boss a quizzical look and de-
parted, Half an hour later he returned,
dropped a handkerchief from his mouth
and began barking again. Crandon
looked at the handkerchief, drawled
“Whose camp y’ bin rattin’, boy? Y’
mustn’t git bringin’ all this stuff in here.
Now nick off —I’m goin’ to have a
snooze.” At odd times during the after-
noon the dog came back with odds and
ends of personal belongings and clothing
items, only to be reprimanded. Late in
"It's that ‘Song of India I've been practising!"
the afternoon the animal disappeared.
Just on dusk the trooper came along, with
Scratcher at his heels. “Your dog
brought a vest to the township,’'’ he
announced. “I followed him back and
he took me to where Jim Matthews was
lying with a broken hip—his horse put
a hoof in a rabbit burrow.” “Well, I’ll
be blowed!” Crandon said slowly.
“Scratcher brought in a hat an’ a
handkerchief an’ a . few more things
today. They musta bin Jim’s, too.” The
trooper looked astonished. “And didn’t
you wonder where he got them from or
try to follow him?” he asked. Crandon
shook his head. “To tell y’ the truth, I
didn’t give it a thought,” he said. ‘ Y
see, old Scratcher here’s such a fool of
a dorg!”
* * * *
“Bohemian”: For the first time on
record a shark hooked a man and got
away with him. Fishing in the Manukau
bite (M.L.), a fisherman foolishly went
to bed in his launch and tied his line
round his waist, realising that the tug
of a shark would wake him. He was
fast asleep when a violent tug pulled him
right out of his bunk. From the deck he
attempted to play it, but the shark darted
off and pulled his “captor” overboard.
The fisherman • did his best to keep
his head above water. Luckily the
slipknot gave way before the shark
dived, and the fisherman had suffi-
cient strength to swim back and regain
his launch. Later the shark, a 10-footer,
parked close to the launch and was des-
patched with a gun. When hauled
aboard it had the hook and line attached.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Up the river from
where we had our wood-cutting camp
dwelt a farmer with a family which in-
cluded a couple of eligible daughters ; a
fact *which made Mat very wary of in-
vitations to card-evenings and Sunday
“Would you mind showing the little Woman your most expensive
jewellery?”
dinners. One Sunday we were drowsing
beside our lines on the river bank when
a boat appeared containing the two girls,
one rowing and the other sitting in the
stern. Right opposite us that boat cap-
sized. We threw off everything except
our pants, dived in and fished the girls
out. The one I assisted was a fair
swimmer and we got ashore fairly
quickly; Mat’s patient gave him some
trouble and I went in again to help.
Girls, brothers, father, mother, cousins
strangers, friends and even the dogs of
the district were profuse in their grati-
tude and the girls seemed to think they
now’ had the freedom of our camp,
hopes, ambitions and culinary arrange-
ments. Among other things, they loaded
us down with books and old periodicals,
and in one of the latter, dated the sum-
mer before, was a picture of the two girls
after each had won her heat in swimming
races down at Mildura. Mat simply
handed the thing to me, grabbed the
writing-pad and began the letter that
cancelled our contract.
* * * *
“Con D. Mine”: I doubt if Lawson
ever had much to do with brigalow scrub
(B. 5/ 3 / ’47) —at least he never men-
tioned it in any of his writings. It was
the loneliness of the she-oak forest and
the desolation of the mulga scrub that he
wrote about. .But one thing still intrigues
me: how were the “melon holes,” which
are peculiar to brigalow and belar scrub
country, formed? They vary, in size from
potholes to channels half a mile long,
30yd. wide and up to 10ft. deep. At
times these holes are dry for up to nine
months on end, during which the frogs
vanish; yet the storm that fills the holes
is hardly over before countless thousands
are hopping about —in three days they
have laid eggs and in less than a week
the tadpoles are hatched.
s.' # ♦ *
“D.R.H.”: Jimmy the Nut turns an
honest but precarious penny by catching
snakes. Snaring the ophidians alive and
unhurt, he ships them off to have their
poison extracted. I was with him the
other day when he caught a five-footer
which was sunbathing on a little clay
flat not far from a rabbit warren. Jimmy
saw him from a distance as the sunrays
bounced off his scales, and immediately
went into action. Jerking open the breech
of his ancient shotgun he pouched the
cartridges and dropped what looked like
an extra-long pullthrough of stiff cord
down the barrel from the breech. He
then tied the breech end of the cord to
the trigger-guard, picked up the weighted
end and threaded it back down the barrel
until he had its end in his hand while a
loop remained at the muzzle. Then, with
thfe cannon in both hands and the cord
wrapped round his right index finger he
advanced, keeping between the serpent
and the burrows. Joe woke up, tried a
sprint past and, when blocked, did his
block in the usual manner of brown
snakes when irritated, and made a swift
pass at Jimmy. As he did so the gun-
muzzle swished forward, the loop dropped
over the wicked head and Jimmy’s right;
hand jerked down, tightening the loop
and squeezing the reptile’s neck against
the steel muzzle, whose edge, catching
under the scales, stopped any backward
or forward movement. Mr. Blake was
then transferred to a bag, the free end
of the cord released and pulled back.
*•* * *
“Blime”: The stranger eyed the work-
clad figure that nipped into the bar and
called for a quick one. “Slip over in the
boss’s time, eh?” he grinned, “Who,
me? Gripes, no ; lam the boss,” replied
Brownie. “The mob know where I’ve
gone. They don’t mind.” The stranger
showed interest. “Got many on?” he
asked. “ ’Bout eighteen. Why?” “Just
\ wondering,” murmured the
stranger, “if you have any troubk
with your workers out here,”
“None at all,” declared Brownie.
“Y’ don’t, y’ know, if y’ treat ’em
right. Mine get anything they
want in reason, but I expect a
decent day’s work, mind y’. Then
again, I meet ’em on equal foot-
ing, if y’ understand. Be friendly,
I say, an’ y’ll find they’re always
ready t’ do anything for y’.”
“Well, there’s a lot on strike in
the city,” mourned the other,
“You must have the knack of
handling yours. Have another
drink? Now, tell me, what do
you do if your gang gets dissatis-
fied and starts wrangling?” “Well, if y’
take the trouble,” explained Brownie
solemnly, “y’ll gen’rally find there’s a
ringleader. So what I do is stick him
somewhere t’ work on his own. If that
doesn’t end the trouble I get rid of him,”
“Right idea, too,” agreed the stranger.
“Have another before you go. Not often
one strikes a man that’s game to carry out
ideas like those.” Brownie downed his
third heartily, nodded his thanks and
strode off back to his pack of 18 rabbit
dogs.
« * * •
“Gravelsnatcher”: If “B. A. Ker”
wants to see what an angry swan really
can inflict (B. 19/2/’47) in the way of
punishment, let him see one in action
against the only foe that is a match for
him —another swan. Such a fight is
usually to the death and finishes when
one secures a beak-hold at the base of
the other’s neck. Then it’s only a ques-
tion of manoeuvring until he “scalps” the
loser with a vicious wing-blow. Some-
times, of course, it’s a draw ; sometimes
the loser escapes with his life ; but, what-
ever the verdict, the witness of the scrap
is treated to an exhibition of strength,
science and viciousness that will leave
him with a healthy respect for the bird.
* * * ♦
“Zake”: Visitors to the famed lime-
stone caves of Jenolan (N.S.W.) usually
are deeply impressed by the guide’s
revelation of the extremely tardy growth
of the stalactites, and the millions of
years necessary to encompass the forma-
tion of columns that are still riot so far
from the roof is given as an indication
of the great age of the oldest of con-
tinents. Well, the tramway bridge over
Sydney’s Eddy-avenue has certainly been
up less than a century. Yet I have ob-
served stalactites under the arch up to
a foot in length—dozens of them. They
are formed by rain carrying lime from the
mortar between the blocks of masonry.
Any sewerage engineer knows that stalac-
tites will form in large sewer pipes, and
grow at the rate of almost a foot in a
decade. It seems that the astronomical
figures quoted regarding our tourist caves
seem somewhat fanciful.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Considering that it is
naturally gregarious the horse is amaz-
ingly individual in traits and characteris-
tics. And surely “wind-sucking” is the
most peculiar of all equine idiosyncras-
ies! “Wind-suckers” are not common,
but they are not rare enough to be re-
garded as freaks; I’ve encountered several
and heard of a lot more. As distinct
from “roarers,” who, of course, suffer
from a physical affliction, the wind-sucker
appears to have no respiratory trouble,
yet he will spend all his leisure time
with top teeth hooked on a post, neck
muscles straining to the utmost, as he
gulps in and blows out deep lungs-full
of air. Many a man has tossed in his
Wagga rug while a wind-sucker in a
nearby paddock kept up a roar like a
blast-furnace all night. Fortunately there
is a remedy: a strap placed around the
moke’s neck and buckled tightly enough
to prevent any straining of the neck or
throat muscles, yet allowing freedom for
normal breathing, will ensure a restful
night for man and beast. The thing that
puzzles me is why the creatures in-
dulge in the practice. Men who should
know have only been able to give me
two solutions: (a) it is an hereditary
habit; (b) they do it because they like
doing it.
THE LOCAL RAG.
Though the shire consists of hamlets with no
claim at all on fame
It’s bound to run a paper with a scarcely-nttmg
The “Protector” or the Mushroom
Valley “Age”—
A sheet of steel and fervor, and at least one
double page. ,
And yet, despite its title, it will bear one
homely tag— .
Were it written by a Dickens it would be tne
local rag.”
The grammar often falters and the print gets all
awry .
With spaces for conjecture where, it seems, tne
ink ran dry.
The “sports” and local items get their topsy-
turvy spells —
With “Brown was caught at thirty in tne
column “Wedding Bells.”
But if you deal in cattle or you wish to buy a
You’ll miss an issue of the little “local
rag.”
The “Personal and Private” brings a message
penned in ire—
A certain slandered lady warns of legal action
dire! ,
But if one gossip blanches, fifty more will seek
to know:
“What is this little tit-bit that annoys* Miss
Flighty so?”
The heads bow down together and the tongues
with relish wag—
But it helps the circulation of the little local
rag.
And yet, with all its bathos, all its harmony—
and spite;
Its bantam-rooster challenge to the powers that
threaten Right;
When far away you’ve wandered where your
itchy feet have led,
To fields that looked much greener than the
ones where you were bred,
Nothing gives your heartstrings such a tug and
such a jag
As the simple homely trifles in the little local
rag.
ẁ
H. C. BAKER.


m
Safe in his hands
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique of the A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged. that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con-
fidently at A.M.L & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
Australian, Mercantile, Land & F:
mance
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1865.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
A 8.22.17
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
.(jft-®*
SterHi™'*
ẃ
ẅ
J
g m
DESTROY THESE PESTS
with
(Regd.)
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD. •
MA 6311
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
%
IS THE REGISTERED BRAND OF
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(.Established 1898)
Farm Qates • “Ringlock” Fence • Wrought Iron Work
Prefabricated Farm Buildings • Ornamental Qates and Fences
Playground Equipment • Stock Transports • Tubular Equipment
for Dairy Sheds • Chain Wire Machinery and Window Quards
Tennis Court Enclosures • Flywire • Steel Scaffolding.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - ADELAIDE - PERTH
CGB/6
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT OT GRAZCOS."
Coast Sickness.
“H.A.L.”: It has been known since
S.A. was first settled and is peculiar
to the calcareous soils of some S.A.
coastal regions and most of the islands
off the coast. Sheep depastured there
would seem all right for a time, then
fall away in condition, and only a change
to inland pastures or from the island to
the mainland would make them pick up
again ; the fleece grown in such areas
was poor and breeding was well-nigh
impossible. The C.S.I.R. found the
cause to be a deficiency of minute traces
of cobalt and copper in the soils. The
change which has followed that dis-
covery has to be seen to be believed.
Thistle Island, off the s.-w. comer of
Eyre Peninsula, is fertile, but was re-
garded as a “white elephant,” as sheep
taken there would be dead within a few
months in spite of an abundance of that
wonderful fodder juniper bush. Only
horses and turkeys seemed to do well.
Things have changed since Chris Wade
went there. As there is so much salt
in the vegetation, the stock won’t look
at licks, but Wade overcame this by dis-
solving copper and cobalt salts in drink-
ing water in summer and by drenching
every three weeks in winter. The sheep
are a picture of health as a result.
Wade was one of the first, if not the
actual pioneer, in putting the C.S.I.R.
discovery to a large-scale practical test,
and the results were sufficiently striking
to convince the most sceptical.
As a result, many similar islands can
now be used as sheepruns; some of
them are somewhat isolated, transport
costs are high, goods have to be ordered
far in advance of requirements and the
date when they will arrive is always un-
certain. But there are compensations ;
the sea forms the boundary fence, many
mainland pests are absent, climate is
good and there is no fear of bushfires.
Cows and Pigs.
“E. 2”: Dairying and pig-raising are
often combined or the latter may be just
a butter-production sideline. In Victoria
at least there is much room for improve-
ment in methods.
The piggery should be a separate por-
tion of the farm, well apart from milk-
ing sheds aqd outbuildings. Nor should
the pigs be allowed the run of grazing
paddocks used by the herd. Paddocks
reserved for pigs should be securely
fenced.
With skim-milk, maize and other
cereals raised on the farm the costs of
rearing pigs are low, and profits are apt
to be judged without consideration of
other factors. The practice of running
cows and pigs on the same pastures has
proved unsound economically, and losses
of milk production and fodder reserves
offset the gains.
Pig-raising has been profitable in late
years, and can be made a better proposi-
carried on in business-like fashion,
as^e f rom other farm operations.
~ 7
lll Mushrooms,
. “Rooster”; With care and attention to
light, moisture, soil and warmth, and
careful selection of spawn, the common
held mushroom (Agaricus campestris)
can > under the right conditions, be suc-
cessfully grown outdoors all the year
round.
The ideal fertiliser is horse-manure, col-
lected from stables where the occupants
are fed largely upon oats (or corn) and
bedded down with straw. Collect manure
an( f straw together without shaking out.
See that it is fresh and well turned, so
as to purify and generally sweeten it. It
should be collected daily and deposited
a foot deep on the floor of an open, but
watertight, shed.
A suitable depth for a bed under a
“Joes a wizard on the bulldogging!"
staging of a cool house, frame, or even
a heated structure will be 9in. to 18in.,
according to the period of the year. The
lesser depth suits the warmer months, ris-
ing a little at the back if against a wall.
The bed should be “rammed” to a firm
consistency.
Soil or loam used for covering the
beds should be obtained from a good
pasture, preferably of a calcareous
nature, if possible, the turf being
“chopped” off in thin clods. Only the
top 6in, should be taken ; the hard, pasty
subsoil is undesirable on the beds. If
loams are used, they should be stiff,
rather sandy. Any soil which has been
under water for any length of time is
useless for spawning.
The spawn is the most important part
of successful growth. Most growers make
their own. Here in Gippsland, where
autumn and spring rains are usually
plentiful, the spawn can be started from
the freshly-gathered spores of mature
mushrooms. In the case of agarics, to
which the commercial mushrooms belong,
the lower surface of the cap bears numer-
ous thin plates or “gills” hanging down-
wards and radiating from the stalk to
the circumference ; on the sides of these
gills the spores are formed. Unless spawn
is fresh and sound, full of active my-
celium, it is of little, or no, use. For
this reason “bricks” should be bought
only from firms of repute. They should
be full of mycelium “threads,” which
appear white and living, and have a
pleasant mushroom-like smell when the
cakes are broken.
During the early spring months
I’ve cropped up to 201 b. of mushrooms
to the yard from outside beds. In heated
houses I’ve obtained sufficient quantities
to market them four times a week.
As for gathering: the mushrooms
should be twisted right out of the soil,
stalks included, the latter severed after-
wards. Reason for this is that the decay-
ing stalks left in the ground induce animal
and vegetable pests to congregate. Those
already infected with the larvae of the
fungus gnats {Mycetophilidce) should
be used only for ketchup; they’re not
wanted at the markets.
Snails and slugs can be kept down by
trapping, using scalded bran or brewers’
grains. Phosphorus paste is deadly to
woodlice, cockroaches and weevils. Most
insect and larvae pests can be destroyed
by a weak solution of saline (loz. to the
gallon) sprayed evenly over the crop.
But, if the spawn is artificially prepared
from pure cultures of mycelium, there
will be little danger of disease.
Paspalum.
“K.W.R.”: Experiments with Paspalum
scrobiculatum in the G.S.I.R. plots at
Gatton and on the Darling Downs have
proved its suitability for Queensland.
Plots worked under row cultivation at
Gatton have carried 4.3 sheep per acre
throughout the last two years. Here are
the results from plots laid out to test row
spacings of varying widths and row spac-
ings with a combination of lucerne and
scrobic;
(1) Sheep grazed on pure scrobic top-
dressed with ammonium sulphate have
done almost as well as those grazed on
a scrobic lucerne combination, but plots
of pure scrobic without topdressing
failed to achieve the same development,
and growth slowed up when subjected to
dry spells. (2) In 3ft., 4ft. and sft. spac-
ings lucerne was a serious competitor
with the grass for soil moisture, and
grass yields showed an appreciable re-
duction. Although the lucerne had made
some growth during the early spring
months, total bulk from these plots fell
below the total bulk of similar plots of
scrobic which had not been topdressed,
(3) Pure scrobic topdressed with nitro-
genous matter showed remarkable in-
crease. Although all plots carried 4.3
sheep per acre, untreated plots of both
pure scrobic and scrobic-lucerne com-
binations were possibly over-grazed,
whereas treated plots carried more feed
than the sheep could eat.
The Fruit-fly.
“Bill C.”: In Queensland first steps
to beat it should be the destruction of all
guava- and native fig-trees in the neigh-
borhood, for the fruit of these trees,
which habitually goes to waste, is a
breeding place for the fly.
Trapping fruit-flies while they are
looking around for suitable fruit to sting
considerably lessens their numbers. Glass
fly-traps containing a lure attractive to
the flies are suspended from the branches
of the trees from six weeks before the
fruit begins to ripen until the crop is
finished. The lure formula is synthetic
vanilla essence one teaspoonful, house-
hold ammonia one tablespoonful, and
water 26 fluid ounces, sufficient to charge
five or six fly-traps. Every few days
the traps should be examined, captured
flies removed, and fresh lure substituted
for the old.
Of course," some fruit will be stung
despite all precautions. This should be
boiled in a drum of water over a fire.
I prefer to shake stung fruit down rather
than wait for it to fall of its own accord,
for, should it fall at night, or when no-
body is about, the fruit-fly maggots will
escape into the soil. Fruit should be
sterilised in boiling water immediately it
falls.
Digging Out.
“Myrrhee”; It’s easy to slum the job,
and the digger has to be conscientious if
side runs and deep ends are to be investi-
gated to their extremities. Don’t leave
partly-dug burrows overnight or their
occupants will have departed by morn-
ing. Move from corner to corner around
the paddock when digging, gradually
working to the centre, where the biggest
haul will be made.
If work is done straight through from
end to end of a paddock a proportion of
the rabbits will move ahead of the
diggers, doubling back later to reopen
their old burrows. After a paddock has
been dug sow the disturbed soil with
grasses if the time of year is right.
Artichoke for Pigs.
“E.H.S.”: A hardy plant, it yields
heavily on volcanic or alluvial land, will
give a worthwhile return even on poor
land and requires little attention after
planting. The tubers may be eaten off
by the pigs or dug as required. Plant in
the spring in rows 3ft. apart for the first


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen*
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
“THIPCS NOTHING
im /wooer to
MOMI SHOTS SP/C j
SPAM AMD PTPDYI
fop wry/" A
JVOGGET
SHOE POLISH
\s
NOW “Portable” Rain
With These Flexible, Jointed
Spray Pipes
Your parched land can now have all the benefits
modern and adaptable irrigation system—the MAXIMUM
SPRAY. Each installation is individually designed and built to
fit your particular needs.
The "Maximum” Coupling allows continuous spraying and changing
of pipe positions without stopping pump or motor. It is the only
coupling on the market with such flexibility and ease of connection
can be coupled by a simple movement to any inclination up to
1 5 degrees, in any direction, and remain watertight.
“Maximum” connecting pipes with the
famous Flexible Coupling will solve all water-
conveying problems. 1, They are portable.
2. Can be laid by anyone. 3. Available m
standard lengths and bores. Write or enquire
now!
Agents: Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 154-156
Clarence St., Sydney; M 2977. Waugh &
Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane; J 1456. Pascoe & Co., Ltd.,
282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia;
M 7127. Welling & Crossley Pty., Ltd., 143-149
Clarendon St., South Melbourne; MX4889.
MANUFAC-
TURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 Dixon Street, Sydney. MA 7858.
(M 2)
11 your
cog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, won’t eat
or la out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nina on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
fng is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BABKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BABKO lodine Dog Soap.
a niTA CONDITION POWDERS l/«
KAKMI SKIN L.OTION */»
unutw lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live. Call
or send stamp for details. Self-measurement
form, testimonials and 14 days free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Bent. 27). 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
mim
It. 'V tlvi'lV f,
• i I. ' ■* . f iVr ' ,•< . • • • ■•; ~J V ,•< / ,-V«
m
VV • '
•fffc
aMHBB •>*<.:;
m..
?&te
SM
•Vvv
. A'-i
I'-r: I’, 1 ’,
Xtf)
S V>‘.
I!
• 'r;.
Us
>1 » f . y:s\rfy 'V; r
rWiV&VJ #V‘ > ,!
ifi,,.B
: .;*i:;|, >:<,>>;<
cn
♦Vi (■■■ :•:
ffl»;.-. "- { :i 1 ' ,w _;
'•*<•-,:<;■ f-( <)»*V » *>s\ ’. *VV< » • '** *
.■. V. v- h t < ■'.( ■ ■ ,'i ■
■ v v, . '<f < t., i • ;■ a ■,,
Si. .v^V-J ■ : . •; /r ■.,'.' f - •
■ . '.A * U ■{■■ , '• \ ’ •. . i . ;
w
tio aoiovi
psstpsi*
#
*
The gruelling motoring conditions of today
demand an oil with a high viscosity index—
which is one of the most important factors
in guaranteeing safe, complete lubrication
of your engine.
The oil which retains its free-flowing pro-
perties at low temperatures and its "body 1
at high temperatures has a high viscosity
index. Neptune H.Y.I. Motor Oil has a high
viscosity index . . . resists wear and friction
. . . lets maximum power flow from your
engine . . . and reduces your repair bills
to a minimum.
Ask at your local service station for Neptune
H.V.I. Motor Oil.
NEPTDNE OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
{ lncorporated in New South Wales )
MARKETERS OF QUALITY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA SINCE IJW^
crop and leave a few tubers when dig-
ging, to seed the next. Artichokes may
be grown for several years in succession
with a light dressing of manure harrowed
in before the tubers begin to shoot. Dig
as required as the tubers keep better in
the ground. The feeding value is about
equal to that of the potato. One of our
cheapest pig foods on account of its
cropping power, facility of cultivation
and nutritive value.
Sunken Gardens.
“Pat O’Day”: There is nothing to
prevent a country gardener making a
sunken garden and thus adding variety
to the homestead surroundings. An area
of about 70ft. by 30ft. should be suffi-
cient. Landholders have a great variety
of ornamental trees to choose from for
outlining the ground above the sunken
garden. Districts with a rainfall of
25in. or more a year should be ideal for
various cypresses suitable for growing in
tubs to adorn points of vantage.
Hibiscus (there are at least a dozen
types) requires little attention and is
very attractive; azaleas may be grown
in large colored pots, and dwarf pome-
granate and frangipanni, though they
must be covered from frost, are worth the
trouble.
Drainage is essential. After the area
is scooped out and the ground within the
garden graded, good drains, running
round the edge of the sunken part, should
be dug, and inch piping laid to divert
water to a grating at each corner. Natural
rock or stone steps leading into the
garden look well. A hollow wall sur-
rounding or outlining the area may be
used wherein various flowers, including
hardier types like salvia, geraniums and
similar vividly-colored specimens, may
be grown. A very beautiful result is
obtained in a Gundagai (N.S.W.) garden.
Two Macrocarpa cypress (spaced sft.
apart) are placed on the high ground at
each corner, and pelagoniums are used
as a low hedge to shape out the top.
In the sunken part itself are grown alys-
sum, centaurea, lobelia and heeria. These
ferns are suitable : Davielia (Hare’s foot),
phlebodium and the various lace ferns
(nephrolepis).
Mangoes.
“Gip”: They have been grown on a
commercial scale for many years in N.Q.
and are becoming more popular as a
fruit in cities and towns. Mangoes can
be grown in any kind of soil, and once
established will yield prolifically for many
years. In establishing a mango orchard
a plentiful water supply is essential for
young trees, and the soil should be en-
riched with humus. No other fertiliser
is required.
Seed should be obtained from a well-
developed tree. Be sure it is a market-
able variety. Most popular are Bowen
Stringless, Peach, Bullock’s Heart and
Kensington. The latter is best for can-
ning. Peach is usually smaller than the
others, but a nice pink bloom and string-
less pulp make it a highly marketable
type. Recently Bowen Stringless mangoes
fetched the record price of 38s. per bushel
case in the market. Bullock’s Heart fruit
grows to an enormous size, the record
being three pounds.
Seed should be planted in summer, in
river sand, in boxes six inches deep to
encourage the trees to grow fibrous side-
roots rather than the usual long taproot.
Plant out when 6in. high with not less
than 40ft. between the trees. Full-grown
trees, even carelessly planted, have been
known to occupy a space double this area.
The first fruit is borne at three to four
years and full production is reached in
ten years under favorable conditions.
Usual yield is 30 bushel cases per tree
per annum, representing about £25 per
tree on normal price levels.
Hints for the Farm.
“Calos”: There are certain bovine
diseases about which so little is known
that it would be better for the farmer to
get rid of infected animals than to
attempt a cure. “Bush vets.” will always
be found ready to prescribe for these
specific diseases, but experience teaches
that with cattle, as with diseased poultry,
the first loss is usually the safest.
“Maid”: If there is a colony of meat-
ants in the locality they may be en-
couraged to deal with termites and will
clean them out just as thoroughly as
will poison. Tie pieces of steak to the
walls where termite damage is apparent.
When the steak has been removed the
meat-ants will attack the termites and
carry them off to the last cocoon and
egg. Meat-ant colonies should never be
destroyed where wooden buildings, cow-
bails, etc., are likely to be affected by
termites.
“Johnny”: Approximate north may
be calculated from the sun, using a watch
set to correct time. Hold the watch
horizontally with 12 o’clock towards the
sun. North will then be half-way be-
tween 12 o’clock and the position of the
hour hand.
“Buro”: The advantages of climbing
beans over the dwarf varieties are that
they are less liable to disease, are easier
to pick and not so difficult to prepare
for cooking. The long stakes necessary
for their support should be placed in
circular groups and tied together at a
convenient height. Beans can be planted
in fairly wide circles after the sticks have
been placed in position. It is better to
leave a depression (or bury a perforated
tin) in the centre so that water can be
conveniently supplied to each group or
“wigwam” at convenient intervals.
“Bill C”: When cutting fence-posts,
mark the lower and upper ends. Set the
posts with the upper end in the ground.
Moisture does not creep up the posts
when they’re planted upside down to the
extent it does when they’re set right
way up and they don’t rot so quickly.
“Box 41”: At this time of year, when
fowls are off the lay and going through
the moult, thick milk, like junket, is un-
beatable as a tonic. Since giving it to
my fowls in the last three days the egg
increase has been threefold. Place the
milk in vessels in a shady spot and allow
them to eat it in the mornings before giv-
ing their usual feed.
“Prof.”: Water may be brought to a
temperature approximating blood heat
(lOOdeg. F.) by adding seven parts of
boiling water to 20 parts of water at
average room temperature. When water
is relatively warm it may be necessary
to add only five parts boiling water, but
if very cold up to nine parts must be
used. The water may be maintained at
about this temperature by packing around
the containing vessel with straw.
Handy Hints for the Farm is as de-
serving of a place in the farm bookcase
as any other publication. Containing
advice and hints on almost every aspect
of farming, it is available for Is.
(Is. 2|d, posted), and is the cream of
The Bulletin m. 0.1. contributions of
recent years. From newsagents or direct
from 252 George-street, Sydney.
(“Land” page continued overleaf.)


CUT TIME LOSSES
\ •*
FRtVCHT
aQ V4 EASIER •• •
ON THE 0* 0
SYONET - * sER viCE
When your Freight must be shipped quickly,
when delay means time and profit wasted—send it
by air. Tasman Empire Airway’s freight service
opens new fields for business in New Zealand.
No matter whether it is bulk cargo or a ten-ounce
packet, Tasman Airways present you with fast,
reliable transportation for your use and profit.
Discover how little this Air Freight Service will cost
you from any office of Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
TASMAN
EMPIRE/?'.
-y'jvutkuj#.
S / LIMITED f
Head Office: MECHANICS’ BAY, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S - GILBEY’S
8
There are many Gins—
hut only ONE
fill RFVS
The delicate, true flavour of Gilbey's Gin is
the same today as always. The name Gilbey's
on every bottle is a guarantee that its
contents are gin at its best the world
standard by which all gins are judged.
A DELICIOUS
‘LONG ’ DRINK,
1 - glass Gilbey's
Gin, ice and any
mineral water, or
with squash and
water.
X
x.;
14
1
<
of
Cl
- a
t<i f
9\V^
m
A
mm
3r
f
4 V
£x
m
Ki
:y
>l,
L>
V--
X
4?
o >~y<
V
wt
2
/
AN IDEAL
* SHORT’ DRINK
f Gilbey's Gin,
J Dry Vermouth.
G/805
THE
Don’t say Gin—say GllßEY’S...and get it.
WORLD STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
fhe limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£l4 0
« « «
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia; - ”
12 months .. .. 15 0
«» * ®
8 „ 40
By airmail to members ot the forces in the
Islands—3 months .. ..£lBO
Sydney Beef Show.
“Bulago”: Although Sydney Show did
not function during the war years, the
beef cattle associations persevered with
annual shows and sales in Sydney. They
were held indoors on a woolbrokers’
show floor, and the congestion added
considerably to the normal headaches that
a judge must expect, judging rings being
too small to accommodate some classes,
which had to be judged in divisions.
The spacious, new, open-air judging
rings at Moore Park added considerably
to the attraction of Sydney Royal this
year, and although there were heavy
entries judges performed their tasks
smoothly and speedily. Judging of Polled
Shorthorns and Polled Hferefords was still
going on when this was written. Total
entries were nearly double those of the
previous Show in 1941 —total of beef
breeds being 859. Herefords were in great
numerical strength—their 311 being
nearly twice as many as in 1941. There
were 165 Shorthorns, 126 Aberdeen
Angus, while Polled Shorthorns and
Polled Hferefords showed the remarkable
progress they have made in public favor
by more than doubling their 1941 entries.
Despite lack of imported blood during
the war years quality was high through-
out, and the inevitable tail was less notice-
able than usual. Young stock were
present to a greater extent than ever be-
fore, and in the open championships their
challenge was frequently sustained.
Some breeders doubt the wisdom of
allowing juniors to compete in open
classes, contending that young, untried
stock have much in their favor as regards
appearance against cattle that have been
used for breeding. It is true that since
juniors were allowed into the open cham-
pionships the number of entries of
mature cattle has decreased. Bulls and
heifers that win junior championship
honors one year may still come back and
put the seal on their performance later
in life.
An interesting innovation was an
associate judge in each class. These were
mostly younger breeders or sons of
breeders, and as each one had the oppor-
tunity of handling the entries simul-
taneously with the official judge the ex-
perience gained should be of tremendous
value to the men themselves and to the
industry.
Shorthorns provided stylish parades in
every class. While there were no out-
standing bulls such as we have seen in
some years, there was little evidence of
tail and a general evenness of quality
throughout. Most of them were reds,
and even the roans had a strong leaning
to red, particularly in female classes.
New exhibitors were in evidence and
several scored remarkably well against
the better-known studs. The class for
bulls, 15-18 months, was particularly
strong and provided one of the finest
parades of reds and rich red roans ever
seen in Sydney. A classy youngster from
Borambola, which handled particularly
well, headed this class and went on to
win the junior championship from Coo-
nong Quartermaster. Champion bull
was bred by Woomargama, and Turan-
ville won reserve bull and both open
female championships.
Herefo.rds were in great strength—both
in numbers and in quality—and there
were many new exhibitors. One class in
particular—for bulls 15-18 months—
brought 52 entrants and filled the ring
completely. This class was won by an
outstanding animal —Vern Milton (imp.
in dam) the property of J. R. Allen, South
Boorook. This young bull went on to
Win the junior championship and finally
the open championship from Bexley
Demonstrator. The reserve bull, which
also filled the same place at last year’s
show, had all the advantage in scale, but
the beautiful head and better hind-
quarters of the young bull were the de-
ciding factors. Hereford awards were
widely distributed and the ribbon winners
were a wonderful lot of animals. There
was an obvious tail, however.
Devons attracted one new exhibitor;
it is a pity that this hardy breed does
not get more support. Admittedly the
domination of the Havilah cattle is some-
thing to contend with, but Devons de-
serve far more space in the show cata-
logues than they have ever received.
Although seven of the eight champion-
ships went to Havilah (Ban Ban won the
female championship), the other com-
petitors won a fair share of ribbons. The
young bull that won both junior and
open tricolors is a wonderfully propor-
tioned animal, low and thickset, with a
beautiful topline.
There was better competition for Red
Poll honors, but most of the ribbons were
divided between Perry Bros, and Mt.
Parry. The former were most successful,
winning all female and both junior male
championships. The cattle were of high
standard on the whole, but there was a
definite tail and the proportions of beef
v. milking qualities varied a lot. Mt.
Parry’s Bundure Bachelor repeated his
triumph of last year by winning the
champion bull ribbon.
Aberdeen Angus were strongly sup-
ported and competition was keen in every
class. Quality of the tops was very high
but there was a falling off in several
classes. The championship was never in
doubt from the moment Booroomooka
Ossian entered the ring. He is a beauti-
fully balanced animal, very typey, and
handles remarkably well. He has im-
proved steadily since winning junior
championship honors last year and the
Milong bull which was reserve last year
had again to be content with the same
position. Booroomooka cattle scored
well throughout, particularly in the
championships, winning five of the eight
top ribbons; the females were especially
good. A.As. attracted one new com-
petitor who seems to have named his en-
tries deliberately with a view to tongue-
twisting the broadcast announcer. Is it
necessary or fair to christen a cow Wam-
banumba Togjiminti?


With lively recollections of petrol quality
most motorists
want
w
motor spirit
‘‘Opinion Research”, which is supervised by Roy Morgan, founder
and manager of the Australian Gallup Poll, recently conducted an
Australia-wide poll among car and truck owners. One of many
questions asked was, “When the pool ends , which petrol are you likely to
try first?” # , ,
Nearly all named a brand in answer to this question. Of those who
so answered, substantially more than 50% said: “Shell”.
SHELL PETROL IS IN THE PUMPS AGAIN
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Inc. in Gt. Britain)
ŵ
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
4 1 4*
“Tilemakers deny racketeering,”
—“Sydney Sun.”
Still, they’re always a little above the
ceiling.
4*
“Dentures and Bunnerong are worries for
N.S.W. State members.” — “D.T.”
They’re afraid that if there’s a black-
out they’ll get badly bitten at the elec-
tions.
“A Chicago theatre has introduced a cough-
drop bar which supplies free drops to coughing
patrons.” —Film guff.
What fans really need are deodorants
for films that are “on the nose.”
•J* *J* 4* ffr .
“The average life of a £1 note is four
months.” —News item.
In the case of married men, however,
it vanishes overnight.*
Talked Out.
“Bell Telephone Laboratories have invented
a talking robot which can read.”
—“Sunday Telegraph."
And any scientists who plead
They did it to fulfil a need
Are under some misapprehension,
For women, it will be agreed.
Can, long before they learn to read,
Eclipse the chattiest invention.
P. M. Lusk.
•J* *l*
“Let’s remember that a housewife is at least
her own boss.” —“New Idea."
And a boss of everyone in the house.
. *J* •!* •I*
“Airline hostesses are rubbing beer in their
hair.”—“ D.T."
Xo ofl their locks?.
Judged on the Hoof.
“One firm in the animal division has de-
veloped water-proofed, zippered goloshes to
protect cows’ feet. — “Sun.”
“Bring forth the cows!” The cows were
brought
Into the ring, and judges sought
For flaws in quarters, head or joints
While moving round assessing points.
They came to Strawberry, and I
Leaned back with a contented sigh,
For she was round and plump and sleek
Of noble mien, yet docile, meek.
With shining coat like watered-silk,
A cow that you would love to milk.
Alas ! since then my heart has bled
And secret tears I’ve even shed ;
I still can’t realise it’s true
That Gum-Flat Daisy took the ‘‘Blue’’ —
The judges, curse the fickle coots,
All fell for her zip-fastened boots.
D. H. E.
Ro-mance.
“Women appear to want sex equality, but they
are not willing to pay for it. They still take it
for granted that men should bear all the cost
of an evening’s entertainment.”
—Correspondent to Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Cyril opened the gate and Cynthia
glided through and along the path. At
the steps their hands met, and they gazed
into each other’s eyes.
“It has been a lovely night,” murmured
Cynthia softly.
“Lovely!” echoed Cyril tremulously,..,
“and not too expensive, either.” *
“Don’t let’s spoil it by going indoors
to check up,” said Cynthia passionately.
“It’s too beautiful out here.”
“Yes,” breathed Cyril. “The moon is
high, and we can see plainly enough
here.”
“It was wonderful of you to pay for
everything like you did. However did
you do it?” she whispered.
“Because I trust you,” replied Cyril,
kissing her nose.
Cynthia sighed and rested her head on
his shoulder. “Couldn’t we leave it till
tomorrow? Just this once?”
“Well, I would like it fixed up tonight.
That is, if you can,” said Cyril anxiously.
“Of course I can, darling,” said
Cynthia, tittering. “I was just teasing
you.”
They sat on the second step. “Tram
fares, sixpence,” calculated Cyril in a
faraway voice. “Cover charge, seven and
eight. Incidentals —say, five shillings”
“Taxi fare, four and sixpence,” added
Cynthia helpfully.
“Five shillings, dear,” corrected Cyril.
“It was only four and sixpence last
time, I know.”
“It was five shillings tonight. You
don’t think I’m trying to”
“Of course not, dear,” and her hand
stole from, her bag to his wrist.
“We’ll skip the cigarettes,” said Cyril
magnanimously.
“That’s eighteen and fourpence,”
Cynthia said briskly. “I don’t think I’ve
got the right change. Here’s nine shillings
and threepence.”
“To the nearest threepence will do,”
said Cyril, putting his spare arm around
her shoulders.
“Darling! ” whispered Cynthia.
Woody.
The Patter Comedians.
“ ’Tis the elections will be on us imme-
jut,” said Jimmy, as he pored, his brow
corrugated, over an analysis of the con-
stituency voting for N.S.W. seats at the
Federal elections. “It looks a soda for us.
Oi can see us winnin’ seventy seats out
o’ the ninety.”
“True, Jimmy McGirr, if not more,”
rejoined Jimmy’s Minister for Strap
Hanging. “Like as not we’ll collar the
silvertail seats like Vaucluse and Gordon
“I’ve been waiting around this department now for three days.
“ H'm —you seem to lead a very idle life!"
for the first toime, especially if someone
can persuade ‘ “Granny” Herald’ to run
some more of her ‘outstanding’ candi-
dates against us an’ the official Libs. The
voters will realise we stand four square
for Democracy, sane Guwerment and the
British way of loife, that we are explorin’
every avenue and leavin’ no stone un-
turned in tryin’ to find a formula for
industrial peace that will satisfy ivery-
body and ensure that the worker isn’t
thrown to the wolves and” ——
“Stiddy, Maurie, stiddy. Tis a shame
to waste such grand soap-box stuff on a
felly-politician—keep it for when ye’re
on the hustings along Oxford-street. Oi’ve
been thinkin’ o’ one thing, though—how
grateful we should all be to Ben for
app’intin’ Vice-King Billy. The prestige
o’ the party has shot up so high you’ve
got to get down now on y’r hands
and knees to see it. His Magnificence
has made himself so popular an’ all.”
“True for you, Jimmy, an’ with naw-
body more popular than Eddie an’ Deddie
an’ Arthur an’ Ben himself. What with
’em bein’ fed in grand stoile at Yarra-
lumla, with liveried butlers an’ finger-
bowls an’ what not.”
“Oi’ve heard tell, though, Maurie,” put
in Jimmy, “that its austerity meals—
nothin’ over twilve courses —that he’s
throwin’ for Ben an’ the bhoys, an’ not
a drop to drink except champagne,
whisky, brandy an’ beer.”
“It’ll be Vice-King Billy’s kind heart
that’s makin’ him set such an example
of austerity,” said the O’Sullivan.
“You’ll mind how, when he was sittin’,
between Caucus fights, in the chair you’re
in now how he worked his brain to the
bone devisin’ ways of helpin’ the Food for
Britain appeals just like Ben’s doin’ now.”
“Well, His Magnificence ought to be
worth quarter of a million votes,” said
Jimmy complacently.
“To us or to thim?” asked Maurie.
“Shut up! And another thing,” went
on Jimmy, warming his electoral hands
at the fire of his rising enthusiasm, “what
happened in South Oss. and Westralia
couldn’t happen here, could it, now?”
The Paddington Platitudinarian let slip
a ghastly, fleeting grin; then in a faraway
voice he said, “Of course not, Jimmy.
If anything it makes our chances
broighter. There’ll be a sympathetic re-
action to us by May the third, you see.
Why, we’ll go in on the crest of a wave
of thankfulness tfor scotching all the
strikes. It’ll be a great victory of en-
lightened progress over the powers of
tyranny and exploitation. We’ll go for-
ward to greater triumphs, united as
niver before, our banners proudly un-
furled an’ ”
“Maurie, for love of Hivin, bury all
that tripe under one of your fifty-year-old
trams. But getting back to dictions—
sure, the way McLarty romped in in the
West won’t affect our chances at all, at
all. Didn’t Shake-speare—or was it Jack
Lang?—say East is East an’ West is West
an’ niver the same shall meet, or some-
thing? So, ye see, it couldn’t affect us
now, could it?”
“No, Jimmy, o’ course it couldn’t,”
quavered Maurie bravely. “Except it will
strengthen our hands entirely. But the
greatest contribution to our coming vic-
tory will be the cold courage with which
you and His Magnificence gave the strik-
ing Left Wingers everything they wanted.
And then, again, the fighting speech ye
made against Darby after the Domain
shindy, when you upheld the rights of
the wharfies to bash any citizen who
wants to exercise his right of free speech,
was a grand thing now.”
Jimmy rose and thumped his chest.
“Yes, Maurie, Oi’m a wonder. Oi’m a
born foighter, though Oi says it meself.
Oi’vfc heard ’em say in Caucus if Oi was
provoked enough Oi could foight me way
out of a paper-bag. Oi’ll show inny wan
who tries to”
Just then a secretary poked his head in
the door and said an angry combined
deputation from the Miners, Ironworkers
and Wharfies was demanding to see the
Premier.
After Jimmy had got his hair back to
flat again and was only about five shades
paler than usual, he grabbed his hat, said
to his Minister for Strap Hanging, “See
what they want, Maurie —Oi’ve got to see
a felly about an Alsatian!” and hurried
out the side door.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
ẁ
Running a Pub
On discharge, after five years in the
army, I took a lease of a medium-sized
Queensland country hotel, putting all my
deferred pay and small capital into buy-
ing the lease, with a balance of about a
thousand pounds to be paid off over five
years. Weekly rent was eight pounds.
There were three other hotels in the
town —population about 2000, mainly
railway employees and their families —
and I soon found that, as far as the bar
trade was concerned, I had a good busi-
ness. I was popular and tried to give
good clean bar service without overcharg-
ing and blackmarketing- Anyhow, you
couldn’t get away with too much in a
staunch Labor town with plenty of strong
unionists.
The house trade was different. The
hotel, a large wooden building and hard
to keep clean, had accomodation for
about 30 guests. Charges, fixed by the
Prices Office and repeatedly checked,
were: casuals, bed and breakfast, 6s. 6d.;
daily, 12s 6d.; weekly, £3 35.; perman-
ents, £2 2s.
Staff required was three girls, a cook
and a casual laundress. Allowing £5 a
week for my wife as salary for managing
the house, the wages chargeable against
the boarding side of the business averaged
£22 a week. The dearest of foodstuffs —
meat —cost about £5 a week. Takings
from the house were between £25 and £3O
a week. Other expenses against the house
were groceries, fruit and vegetables, wood,
light and power, amounting to about £lO
in all. That left all the rfent, instalments
on the lease and license fee —£80 a year—
as a charge against the bar. My house
trade showed a loss every month I was in
the hotel, and any other country publican
I have ever met has told me that you’re
lucky to break square on the house.
I might have been able to battle along
financially if we had been able to get and
keep a full staff, but for at least half the
time we couldn’t get anything like it. As
with dozens of other country publicans
and their wives, my wife and I had to
work long hours to keep the house open.
For weeks on end I had to help with the
housework, laundry, scrubbing and pol-
ishing and cleaning for three or four
hours every morning—before opening the
bar for the day. By the time I closed up
the bar at night I had put in about 16
hours for the day, and some of them
fairly strenuous hours at that.
After about twelve months of battling
with lazy, inefficient and over-paid staff
—the award rates for a female hotel em-
ployee in Queensland would make any
city office-girl envious—my wife and
I. decided to close up half the
house, try to manage with less
staff and to admit only regular
commercials and a few others whom we
knew. Each of the other hotels in the
town had been forced to do the same.
From the financial point of view I de-
cided that no sane man in any other form
of business would waste much time and
energy on a non-paying side of his busi-
ness when such energy could be. profit-
ably spent on the paying side of it.
Most of the house troubles in the hotel
business are due to the fact that while
wages have risen about 30s. a week since
1939, and costs of foodstuffs have risen
sharply, tariff charges are fixed at pre-war
levels. Balancing up my accounts for two
years in the hotel, after getting rid of it,
I find that the business gave my wife and
myself the bare basic wage, plus fairly
decent living conditions. But there was
no return for our overtime. A holiday in
Sydney convinced me that a block of
“holiday” flats at Manly is a far better
short-cut to wealth. —C. R. (N.S.W.).
Cost of Justice
The cause of the high cost of justice
in our courts (B. 19/3/’47) should be
laid on the right doorstep. Has “X.
L.” had the experience of attending before
a magistrate in the Court of Petty Sessions
with a summary ejectment case, only to
be told after waiting an hour and a half
that none of six other magistrates is
available to hear the case, and then attend-
ing on an adjournment to find his case
third on the list, and again being com-
pelled to an adjournment because of a
magistrate unable or unwilling to hear
two cases in one afternoon?
Each of those occasions represents time
and opportunity lost to barristers appear-
ing, as well as a day’s wages for both
complainant and respondent. Yet neither
barrister nor solicitor increases his fee
in suph a case. The loss is theirs. Per-
haps “X. Leckes” has not attended the
Supreme Court on a formal application
before the Chamber Judge, and waited
two hours until his case was reached, nor
had dealings with an understaffed
Registry which, while insisting that solici-
tors conduct their businesses there with
experienced clerks, shows a disregard for
the long waits endured by those clerks in
attending to the simplest matters of pro-
cedure.
A rigorously policed scale of costs is
laid down for litigation conducted in the
Supreme Court, a scale which has been
increased once only since 1920, when in
1933 the profession secured a 13 per
cent, increase on all charges. This may
be compared with the general rise in
prices over the same period.
I venture the opinion that delay is the
real enemy of reasonable costs. It is time
that those vested with authority realised
that time means money and that neither
the profession nor the public can afford
the cost -plus system. — LeGlerc (Q.).
Friendly Societies
“N.K.” (B. 19/3/’47) could have gone
much further in his condemnation of the
“ ‘Labor’ Government’s” “social services”
scheme. Few members of friendly
societies will disagree with his protest
against being asked to contribute towards
the cost of free medicines for the citizen
who has been too lazy or too thoughtless
to provide for such a service. But how
many friendly societies’ members have
given thought to the wider and more
serious implications of the scheme?
In return for becoming “agents” for
the distribution of free medicines, dis-
pensaries may be allowed to trade with
the public where they haven’t that “right”
now. The result will be, if the Parliament
agrees, that hundreds of dispensaries will
be opened all over the Commonwealth,
trading in competition with the chemists
in all kinds of goods from cosmetics to
contraceptives. The A.N.A. (which used
to be strictly non-party in its political
deliberations) supported the move at its
conference in Geelong (Vic.) recently.
The extraordinary thing is that delegates
to this conference did not raise one voice
in protest.
If the open trading right is granted,
friendly societies’ funds will be used to
capitalise commercial chemists’ shops,
and before they know where they are
these shops will be taken over by the
“ ‘Labor’ Government” and made the
basis for a grand national “social' ser-
vices” scheme. In other words, the funds
of friendly societies will be confiscated
to the State in order that medical and
medicine services can be completely
socialised.
There is no doubt that it can be done.
In that seventh heaven of “Labor” legis-
lation Queensland co-operative societies
have been given a wide power of resump-
tion in order that they may commence
trading businesses which accord with
their objects. Such a power has no con-
sideration for the rights of private
traders (be they chemists or any other
class of trader) who have sunk their
own capital in a small business. The
same thing can happen in the Federal
sphere. Turning mutual benefit dispen-
saries into open trading ventures is only
the beginning of a trend which will end
in the swallowing up of all private enter-
prise by the “socialist” State as “Labor”
conceives it.— Bendy (Vic.).
Strange that “N.K.” should object to
paying one shilling in the pound for
social services while he does not con-
sider his lodge fees spent amiss. The
social-service taxation covers more than
his lodge subscription:
The membership of a friendly society
is four guineas a year and entitles the
member to (1) free medical advice except
when a specialist is required, (2) free
medicine on prescriptions except patents,
and (3) the right to buy ordinary patent
lines from the dispensary, except lines
which are protected by “chemists only”
contracts. These exceptions are worthy
of consideration. (1) Only a few special-
ists agree to treat lodge patients free
of charge to the patient, so the choice is
automatically restricted. (2) Patent
medicines include all tablets as well as
miscellaneous mixtures, ointments,
lotions, etc., and approximately one-third
of lodge prescriptions call for patents.
(3) Stock for the dispensary’s trading is
very limited. Several well-known firms
making a range of good-selling lines re-
fuse to supply friendly societies because
it gives their dispensaries an unwarranted
advantage over the chemist, who will
display and recommend a reputable line
with a fair profit-margin.
“N.K.” mentions the voluntary self-
taxation of these societies. The volun-
tary self-taxation is as necessary as a
tenant agreeing to pay a landlord rental.
Friendly societies pay no Government
taxation, being classed as charitable
institutions —why I cannot understand,
since they do not differ from any co-
operative buying society. Also they have
very little overhead expenses.
“N.K.” draws attention to an inci-
dent in Brisbane when bottles of free
medicine were thrown away—“that cer-
tainly never happened at a friendly
society’s dispensary.” Well, that all
depends on the meaning of “thrown
away.” Has “N.K.” ever considered, on
visiting his dispensary, how familiar the
faces were? Week after Week medicine-
swilling members arrive to have bottles
filled with rhubarb and soda or “A.P.C.”
mixture, which they regard as a dietary
commodity comparable with table salt.
They want'“my pink tonic that did me
so much good last time.” Then they hie
themselves off to the doctor to get a
repeat to cover the next bottle. Theirs
is the hobby of a lifetime and I wonder
that they do not souvenir the bottles.
Still it must be admitted that their throw-
ing away is not so flagrant as the Bris-
bane example.—P. P. P. (Vic.).
The Country Life
I live 250 miles from the city and 17
from the nearest small township, and,
therefore, I can claim to know a little
more about country life than “South
Esk” (B. 12/3/’47).
Despite crippling droughts and the
normal months of heat, dust and flies the
scattered inhabitants of this district are
a cheerful, hospitable and gregarious lot.
Although few of them are more than
small sheepmen, many houses have elec-
tric light—wind-generated—and kerosene
refrigerators are becoming common. The
little township is crowded on Saturdays ;
shopping, gossip, sport and a dance fill
the afternoon and evening. Most families
get library books and subscribe to several
papers and magazines.
Actually, although they live in what
would seem the ultimate desert to a Tas-
manian, these people live better than city
families on 50 per cent, more income.
Each homestead grows its own milk,
butter, eggs and some vegetables, and kills
its own meat. Fowls, cows, gardens and
butchering take time, of course, but the
practical countryman realises that the
farm products used by his family repre-
sent a largely untaxed income of several
pounds a week. Perhaps because he’s
getting past Mr. Chifley’s Shylocks, he
eats more meat and dairy produce than a
city family could afford.
The general tendency here is to buy
improvements and amenities whenever
good seasons provide the cash. Houses
which may have been a bleak couple of
rooms in the beginning acquire additions
—verandahs, gardens and a few fruit-
trees. Water is laid on from the home
well or bore. The telephone, an electric
generator and the refrigerator follow.
These improvements are valued —their
owners know too much about real hard-
ship to whine at a bit of roughness or
some small deprivation, and they know
their homes would seem palaces to their
pioneering fathers and grandfathers.
In such a district, where courage and
faith are the local watchwords, the only
real sufferer is the transient worker,
from laborer to schoolteacher. He,
necessarily, takes a house no one else
wants or will live in. Renting a house,
perhaps for only a few months, he can-
not obtain the improvements to make
life comparatively easy. He has to buy
what others produce, and he has not the
“Caught any birds yet, Mister?"
satisfaction of knowing that his work is
building up a property.
But the permanent resident, in com-
mon with other men on the land, sees his
property increase in value slowly, year
by year, and his home become increas-
ingly more comfortable to live in. Above
all —and this is true of all rural dwellers
who are landholders —in times of social
stress and change he alone has security,
—D. R. H. (S.A.X
Better Islanders
Like “C.C.” (B. ; 19/3/’47), I have a
longstanding and affectionate regard for
the island folk of Torres Strait. My first
acquaintance with them dates back more
than 55 years, and its further develop-
ment up to 1927 included the visiting of
every inhabited island, from Boigu to the
Murrays, under conditions which per-
mitted careful study of them and of their
customs and traditions. Also, like
“C.C.,” I have written Bulletin articles
and paragraphs praising their good quali-
ties and advocating better treatment and
consideration than they then received
from the Queensland Government.
But, apparently unlike “C.C.,” I de-
veloped also a strong regard and admira-
tion for the earlier white residents of
Thursday Island and their families, those
gallant pioneers who first developed the
trochus, beche-de-mer and pearling in-
dustries without which the Torres Strait
natives would have remained in primal
poverty and ignorance. To the Jardines,
Hockings, Farquhars, Vidgens and their
contemporaries the islanders owe the vital
beginnings of their present prosperity and
advancement. Japanese dress-divers were
introduced because the islanders did not
—and still do not —possess the fatalism
and resolution required for deepwajter
work, but white employers of both saw
to it that island crews were protected
from Japanese brutality.
Hurriedly evacuated from their homes
when Japanese invasion threatened four
years ago, T.ls. are now returning to find
homes looted and wrecked by mili-
tary occupation, luggers and gear
lost or damaged beyond repair,
means of livelihood gone, and pros-
pects of receiving anything like fair com-
pensation from State or Commonwealth
“Governments” poor in the extreme. The
islanders are in virtual possession of the
town, inflated with the prospect of wages
all same whitefeller and destitute of any
gratitude to those who treated them so
well and fairly in the past.
These are the “Better Islanders.” Even
if they do happen to be small in voting
strength and a long, long way from Bris-
bane and Canberra they are White Aus-
tralians in every sense, and deserve a fair
deal from the “Governments” who are
really responsible for their present sad
and undeserved plight. It has arisen from
their obedience to the orders of their
country’s responsible officers, and it is
their country’s plain and obvious duty
to ensure that they do not suffer through
that obedience.— -Nagheer (Q.).
Women Are “Scabs”
I’m writing to give myself up.
According to McGirr’s 40-hours Bill
(B. 12/3/’47);
Any person making a contract or agree-
ment, express or implied and whether
verbally or in writing, which provides for
the working hours in excess of those
prescribed by or under this part.... shall
be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty
pounds, recoverable before an industrial
magistrate.
My confession to at least an 84-hour
week won’t bring any taxation sharks out
on my trail, though. Not content with
my present wage from the Government
(for this 84-hour week), I confess also
my intention to claim another 7s. 6d. for
overtime when the present infant is well
on her feet. — Mrs. P. (S.A.).
The N.S.W, Rural Workers’ (Shearers’)
Accommodation Act is, for the most part,
a crazy Act of a crazy State.
True, a provision requiring mattresses
and pillows for shearers is not unreason-
able, as such items are cumbersome
baggage by either rail or car. But to
ask an employer to line and in some
cases re-floor buildings in one to four
months is more than unreasonable when
building materials and manpower are
already insufficient to meet previous
demands and priorities.
Suppliers tell me it will take up to six
months to meet orders already in hand,
apart from any rural demands. In most
country towns I doubt if one could buy
enough springhead nails to put a roof on
a dog-kennel.
The only solution appears to be to
join forces with wharfies and coalminers
and declare the whole Act black. ~~
J.S.E. (N.S.W.).


Housing in M.L.
As a visitor from Maoriland 1 was
surprised that the Australian Govern-
ments had not made a more intelligent
approach to the housing problem. In
M. the Government has built many
thousands of houses, constructed mostly
of brick. Under a paster builder re-
turned men are set to work on them, thus
learning a trade and serving a useful pur-
pose. You may see as many as 20 men
on a block of houses, all working under
an instructor.
The houses belong to the Government
and the tenants pay a reasonable weekly
rent _f rom £1 15s. for a six-roomed
house to 18s. 6d. for one unit of what is
called a double-unit dwelling. These con-
sist of two houses in one block. Each
has three rooms, as well as a bathroom,
wash-house and lavatory. The houses
are all sewered and “all electric.” There
are a hot-water service and a good patch
of garden to each, which the tenants keep
in order by agreement. If any returned
man has a-block of land the Government
will build him a house and he pays it off
as rent according to his means.
Since no Government is a benevolent
society, I presume this scheme is a paying
proposition and should work well enough
in Australia. —E. M. D. (Q.).
Price and Quality
Public taste is the main reason why
the quality of many articles is lower today
than it was a generation ago. I once
overheard two men discussing motor-
cars. On one mentioning a certain
English car his companion exclaimed
“I’ll grant it’s a splendid car, but it
doesn’t appeal to me. The darned thing’ll
last a lifetime, and I want one that will
wear out in a few years so that I can
get a new model.”
This attitude is typical of the majority
of people today. They do not want En-
during goods, but prefer something that
will be ripe for discarding before the
sheen has worn off it. Industry natu-
rally complies with the strongest demand,
and thus modern preference is of advan-
tage to the manufacturer, enabling him
to dispose of a larger output at a higher
profit.
Time payment has made the system
possible. When people had to pay cash
they wanted value for their money, but
so many articles can now be obtained
for a small deposit and moderate weekly
payments that there is strong tempta-
tion to replace such goods at frequent
intervals. Hence quality is not much
considered —price is a greater factor, and
the cheaper the better. — Sam (N.S.W.).
Tram Fares
Before tram fares are increased in
N. S. Wales, why not try introducing
uniform fares for the whole or part of
any journey? At a rough estimate, about
50 per cent, of tram passengers travel
one section, 30 per cent, two sections and
about 20 per cent, the complete journey.
On this basis a changeover from vari-
able fares to a uniform rate of 3d. would
increase the revenue by 2s. 6d. for every
100 persons.
That would not be the only increase—
uniform fares would dispense with the
expense of printing different tickets. The
conductors’ work would be simplified and
the number of sections considerably re-
duced. If uniform fares were adopted
it would be possible to install turnstiles
at the entrance to Wynyard tram terminus
and all passengers would have to pay
before admission to the platform above.
It would then be a very simple matter
for the guards to collect the balance of
fares from passengers embarking en
route. A similar scheme could be man-
aged at Central Railway simply by caging-
in portion of the departure platform.
—C. E. T. (N.S.W.).
Road and Rail
“R.H.G,” (B. 5/3/’47) is obviously
more concerned with the welfare of the
railways than with the convenience of
the public. Railways are specially fitted
for long and heavy haulage; motors are
designed for dodging round corners and
calling from door to door. They can-
not compete with each other in these re-
spects, but they can and frequently do
co-operate, combining strength and stay-
ing power with mobility.
The. first spinning jenny was decried
as the enemy of hand-spinning. The
first locomotive was cursed as the enemy
of all horsebreeders. Between them they
made England great. The motors were
condemned by the saddlers and coach-
builders, but they have created more em-
ployment than any other invention.
Motorised farming is feeding the rail-
ways. Motor transport is opening up
land which would otherwise lie idle.
Each new acre ploughed increases the
demand for more rails. If the railways
rust into decay it will be because they
ignore or despise the heavy tasks for
which they were designed and spend their
time trying to eliminate alleged enemies
who are really their best friends. —
Rattler (S.A.).
Immigration
Bringing immigrants here is possibly
the easiest and cheapest part of The busi-
ness. Settling them is a vastly different
proposition.
Not so long ago a leading actuary pub-
lished figures showing that well over 90
per cent, of our population consists of
people in non-productive callings. It
would also seem that many avenues of
unskilled labor have reached saturation
point, judging by the long strikes and the
arguments now being used to attain the
40-hour week.
Any ‘intrusion by immigrants upon
present union conditions will certainly
add to the chaotic position of industry.
Workers arriving from England have been
used to working 48 hours, and, to obtain
jobs, would readily compete with our
own workers and cause friction thereby.
Their settling in Sydney and other capital
cities is deplorable—housing and trans-
port conditions are serious problems,
school accommodation is inadequate,
hospitals are overcrowded and food is
still rationed. Also, our own returned
" Five years, eh? Well, Judge, I'll make y' a sportin' offer-loss y'
double or quits!”
men are training for future jobs and it
will be just too bad if immigrants fill the
vacant places in the meantime.
All of these conditions should be care-
fully considered before bringing strangers
to our land. Simply to swell our popu-
lation without careful consideration of
requirements is likely to add to our diffi-
culties. —C. E. T. (N.S.W.).
The Census
According to the Prime Minister
approximately 11,000 people will be em-
ployed to take the census next June.
Some collectors will be paid upwards of
£l2 for their work, and those who have
been given country districts are going
to earn their pay. For weeks Divisional
Returning Officers have been mapping
out boundaries in Federal electorates, in
many instances taking creeks as boundary
lines and beginning and ending a census
district on portions of land which may
or may not be occupied. Many country
collectors, to get an idea of their dis-
tricts, will have to study Shire maps and
obtain much help from Shire clerks.
The expense of the census could have
been saved. The Commonwealth could
have made an occupation survey along
with the issue of ration-books last Decem-
ber. It is not yet too late to save many
thousands of pounds —another ration-
book issue appears certain this year, and
a condition of issue could be the return
of a census form. — Why Not (Q.).
Leprosy
As “Galenus” states (B. - 12/2/’47),
“Ghaulmoogra oil has been known for
centuries in connection with the treat-
ment of leprosy.” Legend has it that a
former ruler of Assam, having con-
tracted leprosy, abdicated his throne and
voluntarily isolated himself in the jungle.
He found that the seeds released from
the fallen fruits of the Chaulmoogra-tree
not only lent a pleasing flavor when
added in minimal quantities to his food,
but effected a gradual cure of his leprosy.
The Chaulmoogra-tree referred to
must have been the Taraktogenos kurzii,
which flourishes in Assam and Burma,
whereas • Hydnocarpus wightiana, to
which “Galenus” refers, was originally
found mainly in s.-w. India. Hydno-
carpm anthelmintica, which also pro-
duces the oil, is widespread in Siam and
Indo-China. The two Hydnocarpus
varieties have been spread throughout
the Empire, largely through the prac-
tical interest ; of the British Empire
Leprosy Relief Association.
The oil can safely be taken by mouth.
In small doses, varying with the indi-
vidual, it can be and is taken, and oral
treatment is regarded by many lepro-
logists as a most useful adjunct to in-
jection treatment.
Reports from the Central Leper Hos-
pital at Makogai, in Fiji, tend to reverse
the preference shown by “Galenus” for
the ethyl esters and other derivatives of the
oil, in comparison with the oil itself.
Many of these derivatives have been
thoroughly tried at Makogai, and the
consensus of opinion is that they are
more dangerous and liable to provoke
“reactions” when given by intramuscular
injection than the plain oil with 0.05
per cent, iodine. Their advantage is
that they are less viscid and more easily
injected, but this is only of importance
in the case of intradermal injections
where the risk of generalised damage is
smalk
During Makogai’s 35 years, 2845 cases
of active leprosy have been admitted, and
738, or over 25 p.c., have been discharged
as “arrested.” No patient is discharged
until he or she has shown no sign of
clinical or bacteriological activity for two
years. As each patient is repeatedly
examined during this period of “survey,”
it is a fairly stringent test. Another 436
“improved” cases, many of whom would
have gone on to “arrest” under continued
treatment, were repatriated to India at
their own request. The word “cure” is
avoided in all reports, as in tuberculosis;
but, though a “specific” cure has yet to
be found, the above results appear good
enough to lend support to Makogai
opinions regarding treatment. —A. L. A.
(Fiji).
Building Costs
High wages are only one reason why
building costs are high. The inability
or unwillingness of many building-trades
employees to give value for their wages
makes present-day home-construction
much dearer and slower than it need be.
Because of the war-time ban on home
building there are many inexperienced
and poorly-trained employees in the in-
dustry. Steps could be taken to help
such workers become more efficient. The
worst aspect for the prospective home-
owner is that union policy in the build-
ing trades is to restrict output to the
capacity of the least willing workers, and,
in effect, to demand more and more
wages for less and less work.
There is no hope of reducing costs in
the building industry until the trade-
unions concerned reverse their policy and
encourage their members to give a rea-
sonable day’s work for the very good
wages they are receiving.— Wusslean
(Vic.).
A Unified Commonwealth
Federation has proved its value in the
last 46 years—Australia could not have
taken such a prominent part in two major
wars and preserved her freedom without
the Federal machinery. International
trade would not have developed and
such national institutions as the . Com-
monwealth Post Office and the Common-
wealth Bank would not exist.
The natural development from the first
step of Federation should have been the
absorption of State Parliaments and their
replacement by some form of local ad-
ministration preventing duplication of
public departments. The opponents
of Federation, however, have done their
work only too well. It was not until
the 1939-45 war that the Federal Govern-
ment gained complete control of the
public purse. Each State still maintains
a Governor as a social figurehead and an
expensive Parliament which is completely
unnecessary.
True, a single Federal Government
makes for centralisation and some form
of local control must be maintained. But
that is no excuse for the lack of uni-
formity in laws, education and the like,
nor for the preservation of six useless
Parliaments and all the politicians and ex-
penses that go with them. — Beja (Q.).
Juries
The present system of selecting juries,
particularly for criminal cases, is wrong.
Frequently the Judge has openly rebuked
juries on their findings; many have been
called up for jury duty admitting their
complete lack of knowledge of legal pro-
cedure and even elementary law. For
more serious court cases, at least, there
should be definite jury teams or per-
sonnel trained in their duties by lectures
and attendance at actual trials.
As the position stands at present, clever
legal men can dwell on sometimes irrele-
vant points that they know from ex-
perience will win over a jury ignorant of
legal technique.
The jury, after all,'does the most im-
portant thing of the trial—finding the
prisoner guilty or otherwise —and should
be given some instruction in arriving at
unbiased, just decisions. —C. S. (N.S.W.).
Colonialism to Communism
Australians who are able to give their
political state a little analytical consider-
ation must see themselves as a people
numbering over 7,400,000 being directed
in their behavior by Communists and
other militants in key positions. These
fevered agitators in the beginning caused
trouble in industries, like coalmining, on
which the whole national activity de-
pends ; with the start of a vicious circle
of industrial trouble in key industries
(affecting living costs and standards) it
has been all the easier to work up strife
in dependent trades and callings.
Australia at the present time has the
opportunity to extend its economic re-
sources at a great rate and Jay the basis
of vastly-improved living standards, with
an expanded population. The markets
of the world are crying out for our food,
our wool, our metals and our manu-
factures but productive and transport
efforts are being frustrated on all sides
by trade-unionism-gone-mad. And the
union-ridden, socialistic Federal Govern-
ment is almost as obstructive.
Forty-seven years ago Australia ceased
to be a group of colonies and became a
self-governing Dominion within the British
Commonwealth. Whatever repressive
effect British “vested interests” were
alleged to have had on this' nation
prior to Federation they were not nearly
so throttling as the grip of trade-union
vested interests in the Commonwealth
today. Australia, in effect, has ceased to
be a self-governing community in many
of those respects in which rational ad-
ministration is of the utmost importance.
The “Labor” Government is being bluffed
and the people blackmailed by a racketeer
element whose spiritual home in Moscow.
All the mainland States have within
the past 12 months been the scene
of destructive strikes deliberately
planned as an attack on the people’s wel-
fare. The Federal “Labor” Government
has not dared to take a stand against
union lawlessness and contempt for
public rights on any of these occa-
sions. Mr. Chifley has never been
known to chide strike-leaders. He, has
always chosen to “lead” the country
from behind regardless of where it is
heading.
Palpably sections of the electorate
which helped put the “Labor” ‘Govern-
ment” back on the Treasury benches are
already sorry for their mistake. What-
ever their feelings, the day is not far
distant when tens of thousands of Aus-
tralians are going to awaken suddenly
to the fact that, through an association
of circumstances that includes a morally
bankrupt “Labor” Government in com-
bination with a Communist-dominated
section of the trade-union movement,
their right of self-government is in danger
of disappearing. Let us hope that the
awakening comes in time. Until the
majority of Australian citizens do realise
adequately the need for democratic self-
government and the rule of industrial
law this country will continue to be
divided socially and defeated industrially:
—A. D. (N.S.W.).


“THE UNIT OF
w
BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
m
s.->» •: -
C;>.‘.‘:; Si -■>, :.».tr' I : ; I'-‘‘. ‘;•£
k-a?-; !skj -• • !5 ! ; •
h*\i *•’ ■* j ;. -i
Kas
feiil
*;KSI
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING.
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, PERTH.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.,
SUVA.
New Caledonia:
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phones MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phone: B 6565
