

The Home-of Seppelt. .. producers of
GREAT WESTERN Sparkling Wines
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No, 3506
Wednesday, April 23, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
EDINBURGH: THE OLD TOWN AND WAVERLEY BRIDGE.
TN the United Kingdom there is no other city of a size comparable
with that of Edinburgh where the frontier between the past and
the present is so clearly defined as in the Athens of the North.
During the past century the “lands” —we would call them “flats” —
of Edinburgh’s Old Town have largely disappeared, but enough
remained, when this photograph was taken, for their picturesque
qualities to be preserved. This part of the city teems with historic
associations; known affectionately as Auld Reekie, this, the oldest
part of Edinburgh, lies between the Castle and Holyrood House,
and contains the high-built tenements of Lawnmarket High Street
and Canongate High Street which graphically portray what old
Edinburgh was like. Here, too, is the Waverley Bridge which
straddles the busy lines of the North British Railway where once
flowed the waters of the North Loch, drained to make space for the
insistent demands of modern transport.


s'ioni Wrtnng
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne .
Please send, without obligation, pour New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.**
By Name
By Address
6-B. 247 AGE
The Red Page
"SUNDAY AT YARRALUMLA"
Mrs. Ethel Anderson’s Sunday at
Yarralumla (Angus and Robertson), de-
scribed by the author as a “symphony,”
opens with a few lines in the Chinese
manner addressed to Lady Gowrie:
You watch from the northern tower
A North wind assail
Your English rose.
Where can I buy a pair of shoes
Like swallow’s wings?
The practising of Chinese poetry
should be left to Chinamen. Mrs. Ander-
son, fortunately, does not continue in this
style, but proceeds in “Eve of Sunday”
and “Beauty New Born” to evoke the
history of Yarralumla, blackfellows and
explorers:
It is not possible to say whose eye celandine
or salsifry
Brightened first, whose thirst *
First Meander quenched, Doye’s rill
Filled first cup for, Ganges stream
Dreaming who first crossed;
Lost, who first, in haze gleaming the Olympian
snow.
Though we know.
Know who first
Burst silent onto the Limestone Plain,
Again Trooper Ainslie, Joshua Moore
Or Throsby. They saw Molonglo
Flow out of everlasting into year.
Here time past is the eagle’s wing
The grass-tree spear.
Other historical references follow: a
first settler named Dixon who
with a full jug
Mug of best Van Dieman’s Brown Stout
Shouting sings of home and Rosy;
and an aboriginal gentleman, or perhaps
a myth, named Juggajugga, who appears
to have drowned himself by trying to play
a reed-pipe while sitting at the bottom
of the Molonglo.
There is an amusing little poem about
other blackfellows of royal estate, then
a song about the planting of willows ;
and then Juggajugga, unexpectedly re-
covering from his immersion, tickles his
piccaninny. For some obscure reason
there is inserted at this point an incanta-
tion, apparently from New Guinea
mythology, about one Kunai-mai-pa Mo,
of whom it is pleasingly recorded:
Kunai-mai-pa Mo
Would go, would go.
His mother wept. With many sighs
She made a necklace of his thighs.
From these obscure ceremonies the
poet turns to contemplate the establish-
ment of Christianity in the Canberra dis-
trict, and to the appearance of Govern-
ment House:
Dixon’s hut gone Yarralumla
Comes greenroofed with double gables
(Bridecake-Gothic, frostly snugly)
Ugly porte-cochere. Good stables.
All rooms tall rooms. Ballroom “off-white,”
Quite ah architectural cocktail.
One of the architectural features being
a dial on which is a figure of Cupid, love
comes into the picture and exhilarates a
centipede, the Second Footman and the
wife of the tawny frog-mouth ( Podargus ),
who has twins.
The pofems then, in more or less orderly
sequence, describe a day at Government
House, during which a sailor recounts at
the breakfast table his war experiences
and criticises W. H. Auden and Aldous
Huxley. Mrs. Anderson, very much
under the influence of Hopkins for the.
moment, is moved by a wattle-tree to a
strange and hyphenated ecstasy;
Knot-fringe-finished-silver-stippled-ripples
Knot-fringe-finished-silver-stippled-rippjes
Lapped in ling-sweet filoselle
Lilting tilting lipping dipping
Tripping ripple-tinted swift gavottes to
Muted thrift-thin tunes aeolin,
Mazy happy cloisters!
In the afternoon, tennis is played.
Soldiers march. The Second Footman,
at dusk, is aroused to sing of the laundry-
maid. The darkness “quickens with stars
the welkin’s saffron tones” and —presum-
ably a picture of the trout rising on the
Molonglo;
Their play a prelude to the Masque of Sleep
In minted floods the tinctured fishes leap.
Then, in the concluding section, every-
body goes to sleep and “recreates the
universe” ; so that we
Leave, pulsating in creative sleep,
Yarralumla, rigid in the night.
What is one to make of this extra-
ordinary medley? To call it a “sym-
phony” and let it go at that is too easy
a way out; for poetry is not music. You
might as well try to excuse a poor game
of tennis on the grounds that you were
really playing billiards.
Mrs. Anderson is trying to write
poetry; and if you regard Sunday at
Yarralumla as an attempt at a “long
poem” you must inevitably find it dis-
jointed and capricious; shaky in archi-
tecture, uncertain in movement, vague in
conception and meaning. Taken to-
gether as a whole the various short poems
do not make any strong single impres-
sion ; there is no “total effect,” except of
caprice. The opening, mentioning
Trooper Ainslie, Moore and Throsby,
promises an orderly historical poem which
develops, at best, into a kind of impres-
sionistic ballet; and ballet is not poetry
any more than a symphony is.
Richard Church said of Pound’s Cantos
that they had the quality of “an archaeo-
logical junk-shop” ; Sunday at Yarra-
lumla is like a collection of porcelain—
pieces of all kinds and all periods, be-
ginning with Ming, proceeding to English
pastoral, and ending with bits of the best
Hopkins-ware and Eliot-ware. There are
some astoundingly poor specimens, some
are close to exquisite, and nearly all are
chipped. Like Mrs. Anderson’s essays,
which have been mainly exercises in prose
stylism, the poems show a genuine talent
wasting itself in trifling (and usually un-
successful) experiments, a fine mind
searching for a theme.
"High River."
Nourma Handford’s High River (The
Shakspeare Head) deals with post-war
Australia and brings in Sydney and the
N. S, Wales North Coast.
The story concerns Sheridan, a Sydney
girl who, working as secretary for a poli-
tician, meets David Palmer, falls in Idve
with him and marries him. David is red-
headed, handsome, a pilot with decora-
tions, a flapper’s dream. And in the first
chapters of the book the love affair of
David and Sheridan is described in a
somewhat flapperish way. In a manner
reminiscent of many a magazine story:
interesting enough, with good patches, but
sugary and superficial.
Even when David, essentially the ad-
venturous type, is unfaithful in a casual
kind of way it is hard to feel sorry for
Sheridan. One feels that a good strong
cup of tea and a night at the movies
will probably console her. And when
David shows little interest in a settled
home and a crushing lack of enthusiasm
at the prospect of a child, the tempo and
the atmosphere of the narrative remain
about the same. It is good, of its kind,
but still magazinish.
Then David goes overseas (the war, by
this time, is almost over) and, on reflec-
tion—Sheridan’s reflections —more of his
character is quietly built up. He is un-
stable, a professional good fellow, irre-
sponsible. But —and here Nourma Hand-
ford reveals her promise as a novelist —
in no way exaggerated.
Sheridan has her baby and goes to the
country, to David’s family, living on their
property. High River. Here Sheridan be-
comes accustomed to and fond of the life
of the land, and, with that flowering, as it
were, of her personality, the style of writ-
ing, too, changes, becomes rich with crops
and sun and calves and horses and cows.
That is the background, a rich one: the
characters now come out strong and clear.
Mort, dark and somewhat dour, the head
of the family ; a country man, strong, not
over-sensitive, dictatorial on occasion and
drawn in the round. Mort is David’s
uncle. Then there are Grandmother —
Mort’s mother —an impressive and amus-
ing old tyrant; Edith, the spinster who
has reared David ; and Sylvia, a widow,
and her daughter Lexie.
Life on the farm is described clearly
and accurately, if somewhat narrowly. It
is all seen through Sheridan’s eyes—
from the kitchen rather than the cowyard.
And, as is perhaps understandable, the
cows are sometimes treated a little cava-
lierly. In order to give Grandmother the
opportunity for waxing earthy at the
dinner-table, the novelist sets in train a
conversation concerning artificial in-
semination, in which it comes out, inci-
dentally, that, High River, a large dairy-
farm, has no bull.
But errors such as this, though they
may make the reader boggle, are compen-
sated for by the study of character and
the quiet humor. With such a strongly
feminine cast of characters and interest
and insight the absence of sentimentality
is surprising. At times the writer flirts
with it. But, with a delicacy which is a
component part of her writing, she nearly
always avoids it.
Intentionally the character of Sheridan
is made to develop. She falls in love with
Mort, has an affair with him, and thus
sets in motion a complicated train of
emotions; in herself ; in Mort—who has
ambitions and interests which would be
jeopardised by an open scandal; in
Sylvia, who fears for her daughter’s
social reputation ; in Edith, who, frus-
trated maternally, has designs on the
baby ; and in David, returned from over-
seas and fuff of manly righteousness.
Edith, who so easily could have be-
come a stock character, is well balanced,
sympathetically drawn: strong, ruthless,
bearing few of the externals of her
spinsterish state, calmly indifferent to men
except as begetters of babies. And this,
too, is the unflattering impression—a
weakness of the novel —which is implicit
in the treatment of men as a whole. They
are intensely but narrowly observed, and
always in the background there is the
haunting suspicion that, charming and in-
dispensable as they may be, they are in-
escapably ridiculous. Mort, the dominant
character, largely escapes this taint of the
ridiculous, but not altogether. The
women, on the contrary, are taken seri-
ously. Which leads one to the —conceiv-
ably erroneous—conclusion that they are
thq superior sex.
In t the conclusion the central characters
again flirt dangerously with sentimental
improbability. But Nourma Handford
gets them out of it by evading an open
clash between Mort’s love for High River
and his love for Sheridan, crediting him
with another ambition —a desire to be
done with cow-cockying and branch into
a cattle station. Which, if less romantic,
is much more probable.
VARIOUS VERSE.
Let Each Ripen.
Where the horse and horseman go
Iron is clamorous on stone,
Spark and heavenly bluebell grow.
World enough for flesh and bone.
The black mare in the blue pool
Stamps her image and is still.
Where the tree would spread her bough
Cloud masses fill the chart;
There the skilled explorer now
Satisfies and steels the heart.
The aircraft sings in the thinning air,
Climbs the sHll momentous stair.
Let the living horseman ride:
Sweet and sensuous is earth’s breath;
Scorned by the pilot in his pride.
It will open at his death.
Before his final bed is made
Let each ripen in his trade.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
This Runner.
This runner on his final lap
Sucks wildly for elusive air;
Space is a vortex, time’s a gap.
Seconds are shells that hiss and flare
Between red mist and cool white day
Four hundred throttling yards away.
Each spike-shod muscle, yelping nerve,
Worries, snaps at his stumbling weight;
He goes wide on this floating curve.
Cursing with crazy, hammering hate
A rival glued to inside ground
Who flogs his heart, forces him round.
Friends, here is your holiday ;
Admire your image in this force
While years, books, flesh and mind give
way
To the sheer fury of the source.
Here is your vicious, central shape
That has no need of cheer or tape.
CANADA.
FRANCIS WEBB.
Italy in Camden .
When Mary Quinion rides her horse —
A wooden one, called “Apple Sauce” —
{With Dah’s verandah for a coursef
The magpies wake; then, in a ring,
They sing and sing, like anything!
Till I wake, too; and, from my bath,
Join Fido, outside on the path,
At chorusing—a merry din —
While all the neighborhood joins in;
Bob Adams, first; his deepest bass,
Boomp! Boomp I enough to crack his
face.
The Pattersons, and Evanses,
The Larnachs, too —Good Heavenses!
I nearly left friend Fordham out!
The Graceys, and John Wentworth Stout,
Bruehhausers — and — if he's about —
The milkman, who can safely go
From high C up to higher O.
Great singers all! And, even yet,
There others are I've never met,
But hope to, soon; somewhere ? some-
how ?
Tut-tut! Dear me! What have we now ?
The news has spread from cow to cow
Who’ve formed a group intent to moo
In unison among us, too!
A record surely worth an ode.
This makes us proud of River-road; '
And we acknowledge, every man.
The basis of this all began
When Mary Quinion, on her horse,
(The one she christened ‘‘Apple Sauce”)
Woke magpies up—and me, of course!
N.S.W,
HUGH McCRAE.
A Critic of Baylebridge.
Norman Douglas’s Late Harvest
(Lindsay Drummond, London) offers an
unexpected contribution to Australian
criticism. At the end of the little volume,
which consists for the most part of notes
and jottings concerning Douglas’s earlier
books, there are reprinted a few short
critical articles.
These are not, in themselves, of any
great importance. Since four theological
books are reviewed in one article, four
volumes of poetry in another, a couple
of sociological works in a third, some
travel books in a fourth and three novels
by popular women writers in the last of
the series, and all are criticised knowledg-
ably, with grace and with vitriol, the
notices serve to illustrate the range of
Douglas’s mind and the excellence of his
style ; but at the same time, since there is
no attempt at critical analysis in the grand
style of Matthew Arnold nor any effort
to weld the disjointed articles into the
form of essays, Douglas’s weaknesses
are also exhibited ; and, except for the
inner circle of the author’s admirers, the
criticisms were hardly worth reprinting.
Few of the books dealt with are of
lasting interest. The most valuable of the
notices is that on the novels of Victoria
Cross, Florence L. Barclay and Elinor
Glyn, for not only is it amusing in itself
but Douglas takes the opportunity to point
out the inconsistencies of censorship:
In short, the book [Victoria Cross’s The
Night of Temptation] is the approved mix-
ture of melodrama and lust. A Christian
rector who acquiesces in the misconduct of
his daughter, a bastard born in wedlock:
what more do we want? One trembles to
think of the howl of execration which
would have arisen from the press of the
country if any of our man-writers had
perpetrated such an outpouring of libi-
dinous balderdash. But a woman can do
what she pleases, and of course we are
not trying to put Victoria Cross on the
Index; on the contrary, as she well knows,
we are giving her an excellent advertise-
ment. By all means let us conjure up hot
visions of love from these palpitating pages,
since such is their aim and object. But do
let us try to be consistent. Compared with
this volume, that by Gilbert Cannan, which
also deals with the happenings in a rector’s
family and was recently banned by Mudie’s,
is as pure as the Sermon on the Mount.
This, of course, is as true a picture of
the lunacies of Australian censorship as
it is of English. Norman Douglas gives,
perhaps, an equally valid criticism of
William Baylebridge’s Moreton Miles and
A Northern Trail —certainly an interest-
ing picture of how some naive and un-
couth verses, much overvalued in Aus-
tralia, were received by a highly civilised
European mind:
We confess to a sense of disappoint-
ment on opening Moreton Miles and A
Northern Trail —imprints, as they are, made
in the tenth year of the Australian Com-
monwealth. We anticipated things pungent,
things Antipodean. We smacked our lips
in anticipation of the mirage of salt-en-
crusted deserts and silvery artesian foun-
tains, and pearls and opals, and hirsute
gold-prospectors muttering strange blas-
phemies over their campfires, and gum-
trees, and wallabies and kangaroos. In-
stead of this we are regaled chiefly with
the author’s impressions of himself and of
Europe—old Europe. Well, bis idiomatic
diction, rough and generous, atones for
much. But, oh dear, we do wish he yearned
a little less frequently for his “Beloved”: —
Christ, Beloved, if 1 1 had but thee,
Soft and round and warm,
Close beside my body laid, thee
Would I bless from harm.
No doubt; no doubt . . ,
For the rest. Late Harvest is a some-
what lean harvest. In scrappy little notes
Norman Douglas tells something of the cir-
cumstances in which he wrote his various
books and —presumably for that inner
circle of admirers and collectors —lists the
misprints to be found in different editions.
There are gleanings here and there ; an
anecdote about an Italian opera singer
who lost his voice when his son was
killed in the Libyan campaign; some
account of the German poet Platen; a
noth on the inefficiency of the conjunction
“but” —Norman Douglas holds that
“and” is usually far more-effective; a
renewed attack on D. H. Lawrence for
putting his friends into his novels; a
description of Norman Douglas’s own
methods of novel-writing which explains,
in part, the charm and the weakness of
his books—for he liked to be well-fed
and comfortable when he wrote, so that
his style flowed richly and felicitously,
but he also liked to begin a book in the
middle, or at the end, writing the chapters
out of sequence, so that, however polished,
they lacked organic growth and dramatic
movement.
With the book reviews at the end the
author reprints two of his Summer Islands
travel essays in which he drifts elegantly,
effortlessly and entertainingly from para-
graph to paragraph, never getting any-
where in particular, but never writing
inferior prose. A dash of Baylebridges
native vigor might have been useful to
Norman Douglas; Douglas’s civilised
mind would certainly have been invalu-
able to Baylebridge.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
VV
A
m
4k
N
ir->
o
w
O'
\
2
3
\
4
vi‘: : ; : : : >:
ii
ill
5
m
m
mi
mm
268
STURDY
American Naval Boots
The ideal work boot constructed from an imported Specifica-
tion, in reversed leather, giving a Fawn Suede appearance;
genuine welted clumped soles, iron heel plates ... in full
and half sizes, 7 to 1-1 i; Narrow, Medium and Wide fittings.
The most comfortable work boot produced. Price 26/8
• Men’s Shoes—Ground Floor, George Street.
Tough, Hard-wearing
WORK TROUSERS
(lUmtrated at left)
Specially reserved for our Country Customers! Men's English
made Work Trousers. These are tough, hard wearing Fawn
Cotton, made in England to the rigid standard of the Royal
Navy. These trousers represent a real bargain and we
guarantee satisfactory wear.
1. Body , Rise.
2. Roomy Side Pockets.
3. Deep Pocket Hole and Button.
• 4. Large Flap Pocket.
5.* Double Sewn Seams.
When ordering, please state waist and leg measurements.
Sizes, 3Q in. to 38 in. waist. Assorted leg measurements for
short, medium or tall men. Price .. .... 17/6 and 2 coupons.
• Mens Tailoring—Ground Floor, George Street.
'PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND -NIGHT
BOX 27120, G.P.0., SYDNEY


HER
ofluy
luaok
pO£S
W£V£ STAR
ON NUGGETJ
~ /SA/'T SHE I
br/ght! “J
-NUGGET
S -? 0E p 9 usH />»
NP46/54
HAIMS
Circular Charts ]« all typ«a oi
Recording Instruments lor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. G«l our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. ITB. BRISBANE. 010.
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
2/- per cqpy. 23/6 a year post free.
END your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
IB
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance tree. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and U days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUS SEE APPLIANCE CO,.
(Dept. 27), » Martin Place, SYDNEY!
Iff best to
hoU on
There’s security ahead
go oB gag j 4« top osoigg tog
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MATURING SHORTLY
If you hold War Savings Certificates which
are about to mature— don’t cash them,
keep them working for you!
Savings Certificates are now being issued
in a new five-year series for face value,
in denominations of £l, £5, £lO and £5O.
In five years’ time they will be worth
£l/3/-, £5/15/-, £ll/10/- and £57/10/-
respeetively.
These generous interest rates will also be
applied to War Savings Certificates
maturing this year—if you don’t cash them!
Every pound’s worth, for which you paid
16/- seven years ago, will increase in value
each year, at better than bank rates of
interest, to £l/3/- in five years’ time.
HERE'S WHAT TO DO
1. War Savings Certificates lodged with
your bank for safekeeping.
Just leave them there—the increase in value
will automatically continue.
If you have instructed your bank to redeem
the Certificates on maturity, cancel that
instruction.
2. War Savings Certificates in your
own possession.
Hold on to them and they will auto-
matically increase in value—or,
better still, lodge them with your
bank or savings bank for a further
five years. They will be kept in safe
custody completely free of charge.
* ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ *
There is no better place for your
sayings than in Savings Certificates.
So hold on to all you own, and buy
as many more as possible of the new
five-year series. They are cashable
at any time, and the annual increases
in value are free from taxation.
Regardless of holdings of War
Savings Certificates, everyone can
own Savings Certificates of £250 face
value.
Don't c ash your maturing War Savings Certiiicates y 4
They will continue to increase in value
i •
at the same rate as the
NEW 5-YEAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
r£ \?i
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Pastoral Pioneers of Port
Phillip, by Billis and Kenyon.—3998.
Whereabouts of Gerald one-time
■ Bulletin contributor. D. Richardson inquir-
ing.—3987.
To buy book describing in detail the Swiss
system of initiative, referendum and recall. —
3997.
Words of “The Australaise” by C. J. Dennis.
—3996.
Words of verse written around New Guinea
campaign beginning “Bringing back the badly
wounded, just as steady as a nurse.” —3995.
Words of Kipling’s “Sestina of the Tramp
Royal.”—3994.
To buy the following book: Heaton’s
Economic History of Europe, published by
Harper.—3992.
Words of song beginning: —
I wrote you a letter today, dear,
I poured out my heart on the sheet;
—3991.
To buy Heart of Midlothian, by Scott; The
Return of the Native, by Hardy; To the Light-
house, by Virginia Woolf; The Circle, by
Somerset Maugham; and The King’s English
and Modern English Usage, by Fowler. —3990.
To buy Outline of History, by H. G. Wells;
The Science of Life, by Wells and Huxley;
Psychology, by R. S. Woodworth (edition after
1942); and Reliable Knowledge, by Larrabee. —■
3989.
To buy book of verse by Harry Morant
(“The Breaker”). —3988.*
To buy Chamberlain’s All Things Japanese.
—3993.
Information Sought.
Service Dept. {B. 19/2/’47) published the
number of runs scored each day in three Test
matches Australia v. M.C.C. What were the
daily figures for the fourth and fifth Tests?
Fourth Test. —First day: M.C.C., 4 for 239;
second day; M.C.C., 6 for 221, Australia, 2 for
42; third day: Australia, 2 for 269; fourth day:
Australia, 6 for 194, M.C.C., 0 for 96; fifth
day: M.C.C., 8 for 178; sixth day: M.C.C.,
0 for 66, Australia, 1 for 215. Fifth Test. —
First day: M.C.C., 6 for 237; second day:
no play owing to rain; third day: M.C.C., 4
for 43, Australia, 4 for 189; fourth day: Aus-
tralia, 4 for 64, M.C.C., 6 for 144; fifth day:
M.C.C., 4 for 42, Australia, 5 for 214.
* * * *
(1) What is the distinction between the cricket
terms “flight” and “'‘swerve” ? (2) Distinguish
between a “googlie” and a “bosey” ? (3) What
is a “wrong ’un” ?
(1) “Flight” is a term applied to variation
of height, pace and placement which causes the
ball to drop quickly or carry on; “swerve” is
action of turning the ball in the air before it
hits the pitch. (This is often done by bowlers
lowering their arm in delivery.) (2 and 3)
“Googlie,” “bosey” and “wrong ’un” are terms
meaning the same in cricket. A ball bowled
with apparently the same action but with a
different twist causes it to reverse in the oppo-
site way when it hits the pitch; intent, to de-
ceive the batsman into making a faulty stroke.
♦ * ♦ *
Tfow to (1) wax paper flowers, (2) clean gilt
jewellery, and (3) clean a cast-iron enamel bath ?
(1) Fill deep basin with warm melted paraffin
wax, dip the paper flowers in, heads down, for
a few minutes, hold up to drip and harden.
Stand in vases; keep in cool place. (2) Dip
into soapsuds made with fine flakes; dry by
brushing with dry soft brush; finally, shake in
a bag containing jeweller’s rouge. (3) Remoife
paint with any paint-stripper or use hot soda
water. Rinse well, wipe off all trace of paint
and when dry apply three coats of enamel.
* * * *
A simple method of extracting oil from
olives ?
Wash the olives and allow to drain, then
crush by any convenient method. If a small
quantity only is to be treated they may be
crushed individually with an ordinary carpen-
ter’s hammer, care being taken to see that the
pit or stone is broken in the process. For larger
quantities it would be necessary to pass the
olives through corrugated-iron rolls. Pack the
crushed olives in three or four layers of cheese-
cloth and place between two pieces of flat
timber in dimension each of about 15in. by
15in. by lin. thick. Tie a stout rope loosely
around the boards and insert a motor-car jack
between the top board and the rope. Reasonable
expression will then be obtained by pumping
the jack in the normal manner. The first
material pressed out will consist of oil and
water and this is allowed to stand in a storage
tank until complete separation occurs, when
the water may be siphoned from the bottom.
The residual material in the press is then heated
to boiling in a preserving pan, after the addition
of sufficient water to avoid burning. The heated
pulp is again transferred to cheese-cloth and a
second expression carried out and separation of
oil and water effected as before. The first
pressing will be found to yield the best oil,
which in commerce is known as “virgin oil.”
* * * *
How can the natural colors be retained in
pressed flowers ?
If flowers are cut just at their prime and
pressed between dry blotting paper they will
retain their colors for months if kept in pressing
album. To make color last longer stick flowers
into a lump of clay or putty in the bottom of
a large box or jar and pour iq, slowly and
carefully, enough perfectly dry white sand to
completely cover flowers. Keep in warm, dry
place for some weeks, then press.
Brief Answers.
A.L.: Fortunes in Formulas, by Hiscox and
Sloane (10s. 6d.), from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney A.S.H.: G. F. Dampney, Walworth-
avenue, Newport Beach (N.S.W.) H.M.P.:
Selby Shoes (Australia), Ltd., 53 Renwick-street,
Redfern... .P.J.M.: Treat spider bites with
tincture of iodine as a local application. See
your doctor if numbness or pain persists. The
redback spider, common in most parts of Aus-
tralia and N.Z., is dangerous and a bite should
be treated at once. Scarify the wound, apply a
few moistened crystals of permanganate of
potash as for snake-bite, and take a brisk saline
aperient G.N.E.: (1) Greater London (com-
prising Registration London and “Outer Ring”)
has a population of 8,700,000. (2) New York
has a population of 7,454,995 G.S.P.: (1)
“Hassan,” the play by James Elroy Flecker,
was arranged for stage production by Basil
Dean in His Majesty’s Theatre, London, on Sep-
tember 20, 1923. (2) Try Hall and Cos., 20
Hunter-street, Sydney. (3) Consult the Perpetual
Calendar printed in any recent edition of
Whitaker’s Almanack E.M.L.G.: (1) and
(2) The Quetta was wrecked on February 28,
1890. For a list of those who lost their lives
see the daily newspapers of that period. (2)
Andrew Fisher L.J.A.: (1) There is gener-
ally more than one photographer from the same
newspaper at such events. (2) The photographs
that are published represent a small selection
of the total taken, and naturally only those
having news interest are selected... .E.H.:
Send the drawings to the Editor and a criticism
will be given E.F.: See C. E. W. Bean’s
The Story of Anzac (2 vols.) D.8.M.: (1)
Question referred to “Wild Cat” Editor and
will be answered later. (2) Write Vic. Agricul-
tural Dept., Melbourne L.L.R.: From
Shepherd and Newman, Young-street, Sydney.
D.P.: Write Cement and Concrete Assoc.
of Australia, 14 Spring-street, Sydney....
R.P.W.: (1) Total area of Soviet Russia in
1940 was 8,348,094 square miles and the popu-
lation 193,198,000. (2) White Russian S.S.R.
comprised 40,022 square miles and a popula-
tion of 5,567,976... .G.T.C.: (1) It consists of
the members of the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party. (2) Yes R.C.: A review of
Cookabundy Bridge, by Brian James, appeared
on “The Red Page” of The Bulletin, July 17,
1946 A.A.: The sentence and finding of the
Nuremburg Tribunal in respect of Dr. Hjalmar
Schacht, Reichsbank President and Minister of
Economics, was printed in' “Uncabled
Additions,” Bulletin, October 30, 1946.


Missing Friends.
WOULD EVELYN ISOBEL TIPPING, last heard of
in Christchurch, New Zealand, about 12 years ago,
or any children of the said Evelyn Isobel Tipping,
or anyone knowing of their whereabouts, kindly
communicate With the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Christchurch, New Zealand?
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA, 1946.
No. 145.
TO ALBERT OLAVES OLSEN formerly of Berrigan
in the State of New South Wales But Now of Parts
Unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that Ann Elizabeth Olsen,
of 5 Turnbull Avenue, Toorak, in the State of
Victoria, married woman, has commenced pro-
ceedings in the Supreme Court of Victoria for a
divorce from you on the ground that since the
celebration of your marriage with the petitioner you
have without just cause or excuse wilfully deserted
the petitioner herein and without any such cause
or excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards. Unless you ENTER an
APPEARANCE in the office of the i’rothonotary of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
sth day of June. 1047, the cose may proceed in
your absence; and take further notice that if you
intend to defend this suit you must cause an answer
to be filed in the said office on or before the 15th
day of June. 1947.
This advertisement is inserted by MIDDLETON
MeEACHARN & SHAW of 60 Market Street, Mel-
bourne, in the State of Victoria, solicitors for the
petitioner. >
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
A HOUSE IS BUILT. By Barnard Eldershaw. This novel was the judges’
choice in the £lOO Sydney "Bulletin” prize competition.
7/6 (post. 4d.).
WILDERNESS TREK. A novel of Australia by Zane Grey.
9/6 (post. 4d.).
MEN AGAINST THE EARTH. By John K. Ewers. A novel set in the
Western Australian wheat belt; the period is 1907-1918.
8/6 <post. 4d.).
HIGH RIVER. By Nourma Handford. The author portrays the post-war
scene of Australia as seen through eyes that have rare insight.
8/6 (post. 4d.).
BEN HALL, THE BUSHRANGER. By Frank Clune. An exciting and
absorbing novel. » 10/6 (post. 6d.).
ALL THAT SWAGGER. By Miles Franklin. This book has been
acclaimed by critics as one of the finest novels yet written.
8/6 (post. 6d.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd, 89 Castiereagh Street, Sydney
MA 6511.
dfg
fg
It your
dog's coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
it he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out ot
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN L.OTION «/»
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/fl
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You'll Jump on|
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile doily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. Yougetcon*
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
GIVE
\|\CKt»S
1 Glt» F'Z*
(OR 0 " 0l
R R 0
H usßft H D • •
nut a teaspoon-
into eaCbl ° ng add strand
tul o! sugar, the # generous
’ UiCe ° l 3 f Vickers Gin. ThorougWY
measure o u p the glasses
stir the and serve.
wi* icy-eo'd » Gin -^ays
immediately # satisiy ing'* a
excellent . . • cupboard.
" MUST " in * e fatntly
# wpo
m
/
im
m.
m
'-X *
W
FREE RECIPE BOOK
Recipes for 50 practical
long drinks and cocktails.
Get your free copy. Write
to: The United Distillers
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
VICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
Rex: “Tressider’s Creek” too shallow....
A.Q.M.: Outback story has a city flavor
V.V.; Well-written .article, but not a wide
enough interest for this paper G.R.: You
are certainly a trier, but verses show no
promise R.D.: Keep your rhymes for auto-
graph albums.... X.E.: “A large pack of
dingoes moved across the prairie.” That settled
it J.L.: “Pearlers of the Strait” has good
material badly handled. You can’t “dash off”
a story.,. .D.M.: Illegible writing on air-mail
paper didn’t give it a chance... .F.P.: “The
Orphan” will have to find a home elsewhere.
J.A.: “Will-o’-the-Wisp” is wispy M.T.:
It is always difficult to persuade the reader
that trees talk... .D.H.R.: Hills heavy, and
weak and conventional... .A.T.: Come again,
but not with “croaking”'crickets W.R.8.:
Fair of its kind V.A.: Try a woman’s paper.
W.N.: “Women” is the devil A.McK.:
“They were written under peculiar circum-
stances.” They are peculiar poems N.A.R.:
“Adelaide, City of Churches,” was read with
rapture by Mr. Blair, the Religious Editor
C.M.R.: A clichd to the line T.C.: Not
a hope F.J.S.: Come in and bring your
pearl:—
. ...0.F.E.: True but tame P.S.: Rather like
“The Stag at Ba>” D.P.: Your chewing-
gum is insipid and lumpy 8.C.: Of interest
only to the author L.G.H.: You’ll figure in
this column yet A.S.: The coincidence was
more than we could swallow J.R.L.: Dull
and dreary J.J.A.: No hiding-place in our
pages for your bushrangers R.A.: Send it
to a temperance magazine C.R.R.; We are
still yawning... .G.M.: Material that has been
broadcast not required by us L. 8.: We
take our hats off to your loyal blackfellow but
cannot see him as a hero in our pages....
V.H.N.: A very tame finish..A.H.C.: Forget
Mr. Fitchett C.McG.: You labored hard
but merely produced a squib... .J.G.: Unreal,
especially the section about the bushed police-
man. .. .J.G.C.: Too slight for us H.D.W.:
It didn’t give us the shudders you thought it
might... .L.H.C.: No laughs in that light-
weight. .. .I.O’B.: Do adults talk and act like
that in your part of the world?... .J.A.: Far-
fetched S.T.: More an article than a short-
story D.E.T.: Another page of that chatter-
ing and we would have been in a mental home.
A.R.D.: The wife is unconvincing....
M.L.G.A.: Big Billy’s mate left to his gloom,
N.G.F. : Not enough kick in it D.F.:
Found conversation between two railway car-
riages' most unexciting M.0.C.: No room
for your history lessons A.F.: “Homeward
Bound” is homeward bound A.H.: Misses,
but not by much... .N.G.: There’s not much
point in it, is there? F.M.: Sentimental
twaddle J.T.: Rabbit trappers didn’t reach
publication standard N.R.W.: It takes a
smarter pen than yours to write semi-scientific
stuff of that description R.J.; Hopeless....
H.H.: No epics based on the R/H factor,
thank you —.F.N.: You “’ope we’ll ope’
our cheque book.” Nope H.L.: A little
more work on it will make a vast improvement.
....D.J.: Next time you “go down to the sea
in a dingy” stave a plank and “sink gloriously”
yourself D.C.: Another of the crop of fire-
side “sea-dogs” which turn up with the first
cold snap of winter. Avast there, all of you!
We now have on the establishment enough
yarns of mizzens, marlinspikes, main braces
and lee-cock scuppers to rig a four-masted
schooner... .H.K.P.: There was force in your
couplet:
Subtle D.D.T. gives not
The satisfaction of a swat.
P.G.; Cut back all those wandering
branches and it may blossom CM.: Appre-
ciating the deep sentiments in your poem, we
print it here:
....Toti: Verses to your cat failed to make us
purr Pug: Boxing yam took the count in
the first round S.G.: “Tales of the Cane-
fields” are pretty tall. Try some cutting and
trimming P.V.: You typed 5000 words and
said nothing new N.P.C.: A dull story about
dull people R.C.: “Jackeroo Jingles” have
too many jangles Hank: “Tonkin’s Store”
was wiped out under Section 9, Sub-section B
of the Pure Foods Act N.N.: Rhymes about
nothing at all of no interest to us E.M.P.:
Just a magazine story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.D.: Baldheaded barber trying to sell his
victim a bottle of hair fertiliser was first pic-
tured on the stone tablets of ancient Babylon.
Sid: Fisherman gags as exhilarating as a
long-dead mullet... .C.McN.: Your picture of
elongated poet unloading his work on a pub-
lisher does not ring true. No poet ever looked
so happy.,. .B.B.: Badly done... .X.M.:
Worse Pop: Suggestions are welcomed and
paid for when used. Present batch not suitable.
... .R.M.: Did you really intend all your char-
acters to be cross-eyed? L. 0.: Try again, but
use stout white paper or white card. Work
must be well enough done to reproduce-....
T.0.T.: Humorless drunks sent to inebriates’
home... .K.R.: You have certainly studied the
physical endowments of your barmaids, but
make them say something bright and snappy.
Evolution through the ages
Has produced on earth today
Homo Sapiens from oysters,
Long and weary was the yay.
Dining in my lonely suite,
I heard outside my door a bleat.
And found a mournful-looking steer
Quite out of place mid wood-veneer.
“Come in,” I said, “what is your woe f’r?”
He came, and squatted on my sofa.
“My friend,” he mooed, “perhaps you know
The game they play at Sydney Show,
Wherein they chase us till they catch us.
Then hurl us down like useless matchus.
I come for sanctuary ’gainst more bruises,
For in the game we’re always losers.”
“Just make yourself at home,” I said,
“And I will guard you till I’m dead.
You and I appear twin souls,
For, torment their respective goals,
Your ‘doggers’ came off horses’ backs’s.
While mine arrive collecting taxes.”


THE SWING TO
i S.A,
IV. A
N.S.W
GLAND
THE PEOPLE HAVE HAD ENOUGH of a Govern-
ment which has failed to remedy industrial unrest.
THE PEOPLE HAVE HAD ENOUGH of bureau-
cratic controls and restrictions, of housing shortages
and a chaotic transport system.
THE PEOPLE HAVE LOST FAITH in government
by a Party which reserves important diplomatic
and administrative appointments for defeated or
retiring politicians, and conveniently forgets prefer-
ence to servicemen.
In Western Australia and South Australia this year,
the electors have chosen a Liberal Government. In
New South Wales, too, the swing to-day is to the
Liberal Party , and a return to good Government for
our State.
'
mm
,' , i
A CAPABLE LEADER
The Hon. Vernon Treaff, M.M., K.C., M.L.A.
Leader of the N.S.W. Liberal Party
The Liberal Party has the
leaders, the candidates and the
policy to bring sane, progressive
government to New South Wales
The Liberal Party stands for Industrial peace
and full production, and the immediate de-
velopment of our State's resources to over-
come shortages in the least possible time.
The Liberal policy is sound and progressive,
and the Party has the Leader and the team
with the vigour, enterprise and ability to put
this policy into effect.
CHANGE THE GOVERNMENT
Authorised by F. R. Burton, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.


TH E FLAG
BY CECI L MANN
SOMETHING the major said about
the flag in proposing the toast to
Our Fallen Comrades made Mac-
Gowan think of it.
“There’s no question about it,” he said
to Bricky alongside him, “she was a
bloody funny show that! In lots of
ways.”
Mac grinned, remembering, and Bricky
grinned with him. They touched glasses
and had a swig on the strength of it be-
tween toasts.
“Plenty flags out today,” Mac said.
“One thing about ’em, they do th’ Day
proud. Run ’em up everywhere.”
“Yair,” Bricky agreed. “Millions of
’em.”
Mac thinking maybe there weren’t that
many, but there was a helluva lot. There
was one in the street he lived in, because
the mayor happened to live there, too,
and had a full-rigged flagpole. It was
fluttering halfway up it when he’d walked
past, coming in to the March. And then
all the others ; up on the roofs and stuck
out from the balconies. Making the
whole city look bright.
Bricky thinking more without flags. He
didn’t take much stock of them. There
was that burr about “flag-waggers.”
Anyhow, they looked all right up there,
waving in the sun.
“You’re right, there, Mac,” he said,
getting back on to MacGowan’s original
thought; “some
funny things hap-
pened in that
show right
enough. Remem-
ber Darky Alder-
son? Y’ know,
aboard th’ boat
there when they
paid us in gold
old Darky said t’
me ‘How’d y’
like t’ go off,
l’d like
t’ get it with me
arms round a sheila. Y’ wouldn’t know
anything about it.’ We were havin’ a game,
an’ I’d just thrown a flamin’ nine and
was rakin’ th’ gold across th’ blanket in
handfuls. When I got th’ drift of what
he was talkin’ ’about I thought ‘Well,
that’s a funny sorter thing t’ think about
in th’ middle of a game of hazards,’ I
reckoned ‘This’d do me, Darky. Just like
this. Rakin’ in th’ old golden goblins.’
“Y* know,” Bricky told Mac, wander-
ing off on his trail of golden sovereigns,
“I know a bloke up in th’ bush who’s got
a whole flamin’ sock full of them to this
day,”
“Old Darky, eh?” said MacGowan, a
shade absently. “There wasn’t any more
sheilas for him.”
“No, you’re right there,” Bricky said.
“I dunno, though. He’d have his arm
round one when he got it just th’ same.”
There was a lot of banging on the
table and stamping of feet, and along at
the top another of the heads was up pro-
posing the Day We Celebrate.
“Wasn’t it Beachy /got him?” Mac-
Gowan asked in a lowered voice, leaning
his head close to Bricky’s.
“S’pose it could ’a’ been,” Bricky said ;
“but he got it right up there on th’ corner
above Shell Green. Shell Green was right
for him, Mac. He got a whole flamin’
shellful of shrap, pellets in him. Dozens
of ’em. They reckoned there couldn’t
have been a single flamin’ one of them
missed him.”
“That’s bloody funny, too, when y’
come t’ think of it,” MacGowan said ;
“I mean th’ difference. Y’d remember
Minnane, wouldn’t y’? He was there in
th’ first mob. He’s just along there on
th’ other side of th’ table. That’s him
this side of Sergeant Noland. Y’ talk
about Darky gettin’ th’ lot; I was down
on th’ Beach with Minnane when he got
cracked. Y’ know that time they had us
on that ammo lumpin’? Y’ didn’t cop
it. It was both ends and th’ middle. Up
those bloody hills, right along th’ Beach
an’ up th’ gully there right t’ th’ top of
Shell Green. Minnane’s only a little
bloke, but he could do it as well as any
of ’em. Y’ wanted t’ be a flamin’ moun-
tain goat.
“I was sayin’, th’ day he got hit. Y’
wouldn’t believe it, but it’s a fact. Y’
can ask Minnane himself. We was there
at that stack of ammo along past th’
end of th’ pier. I was givin’ Minnane a
hand up with a couple of shells on to his
shoulders. Well, he’s got ’em up there
like that,” said MacGowan, clenching his
fists inwards out in front of his shoulders,
holding the shells in “I was just
goin’ t’ bend down t’ pick up me own
lot when one come over from Beachy and
burst in th’ air a bit away from us about
thirty foot up. I just happened t’ look
at Minnane as it burst, an’ I saw it with
me own eyes. Y’ can ask him y’self.
One of th’ pellets hit him fair in th’
left’eye. There was just a whoosh of
wind, like that; but I never stopped a
flick of one.
(iW’ know,” said MacGowan, “if y’
I told people th’ bloody funny
things that can happen they wouldn’t
believe y’.”
“You’re right there, Mac,” Bricky
agreed, “These damn’ speeches I
dunno —too damn’ longwinded.”
“He always was a bit of a gasbag,”
MacGowan said, “but he was all right;
he got hit five times. Yes, as I was sayin’
about Minnane. Th’ damn’ funny things
that can happen. Y’ know, that pellet
went clean through his eye an’ through
th’ roof of his mouth, and he spit th’
bloody thing out on th’ bloody sand and
he says t’ me ‘Jumpin’ hell, that’s hot!’ ”
Bricky leaned back and let out a
guffaw, and there was a roar of “Shush! ”
from the table ; mostly from the top end
where the Day We Celebrate was still
having the honors done to it.
MacGowan bent closer again. “You
ask him after,” he said.
“I can believe it, all right,” Bricky
assured him. “That’s th’ flamin’ funny
part about th’ whole flamin’ thing. Y’
can’t believe some of th’ blasted things
y’ve seen with your own blasted eyes.
Here’s th’ best, Mac—this bloke’s goin’
t’ talk all day.”
Sitting low in their chairs they drained
their glasses, Bricky getting hold of the
bottle they were sharing and filling them
again ready for the toast.
MacGowan was still on the Beach,
“You were right there about things y’
wouldn’t believe,” he said. “I saw
another bloody funny thing that same
day. For all I know this bloke could
have got it from th’ same one that got
Minnane. But I didn’t notice him till
after. When Minnane spat her out he
went a bit white round th’ gills. He
dropped his couple of shells and he’s
saggin’ a bit, but I got hold of his arm
and walked him along into that sort of
a dressing station they dug into the cliff
there back up from th’ pier. His face was
white as bloody chalk, and there’s blood
round his mouth, but th’ joker in there
said there wasn’t anything much wrong
with him. Gripes, as long as y’ could
walk. Anyhow, they took him over, and
I went an’ got me shells and lugged ’em
up t’ th’ guns.
“She’s gettin’ well on in the after-
noon,” MacGowan said, “when I get th’
drum t’ go down for another lot. It
was just before
that big go in they
had about th’
middle of August.
You were still
there, weren’t y’?”
“Too ri g h t,”
said Bricky. “I
was round on No.
3 gun when you
got hit y’self.”
“That’s right,”
MacGowan said.
“Let’s see now;
it’d be just about
a couple of days
before that. Y’ remember she was
gettin’ pretty hot just then in the’ day-
time. That’s how I come t’ get taken
for one of th’ heads. When I went down
again I’d took off me shirt an’ only had
on me ridin’ strides hacked off into
shorts, an’ me boots, an’ a square hunk
of bag with knots tied in th’ corners for
a lid. Y’ know, Bricky, we must’ve
looked almost like bloody pirates. One
thing, th’ heads looked th’ Strike
me, I passed a bloke there one day—l
dunno, something’ about th’ look of him
made me do it, an’ I says, ‘Saieda, wallah.
How’s th’ crabs?’ He just says, ‘Good-
afternoon, gunner.’ Course he’s one of
th’ heads; one of our own mob, too. In
fact, he was one of th’ biggest flamin’
fish-heads in th’ outfit, and y’ wouldn’t
have given a zack for him.”
There was a general burst of applause
as the sarge, who’d been supporting the
toast, cut it short and got them to their
feet. The hired entertainer at the piano
in the corner struck up “Australia’s
Sons” and they all sang what they knew
of it and ad libbed the rest.
THEN it was all talk up and down
the table, and MacGowan could go
on in his normal voice.
“Y’ remember, Bricky,” he persisted,
“I was sayin’ about goin’ back down
t’ th’ beach. Y’ know, there’s a boat
or two duckin’ about and t’ hell with
Beachy ; like the mob in swimmin’ about
half-way along as if they was at Manly.
I felt like bein’ a bit with ’em; but we
went down. She was down there I got
taken for some sort of a head m’self.
But that was nothin’ t’ what else hap-
pened. I never saw anything t’ beat
that in th’ whole bloody show. Funniest
thing you ever saw. I dunno whether
it was th’ same one that got Minnane,
but when we got down t’ th’ ammo
there’s a bloke lyin’ there a couple of
foot away from where we’d been stand-
in’. Y’d think he was asleep ; but he
was dead all right. Somebody says—y’
know th’ way they do —‘He’s fixed,’ an’
we got on t’ th’ shells. I’m doin’ th’
Boy Scout act helpin’ each bloke get ’em
on to his shoulders, an’ I noticed a couple
of bits of kids standin’ there lookin’ at
me an’ lookin’ down at th’ bloke lyin’
there. I wasn’t takin’ much stock of
them. There’s about half a dozen of
us on th’ job, and I got th’ last bloke
off and happened to look across at th’
couple of kids. They were some sort of
navy chaps. None of us was so damn’
old ourselves, but this pair was only a
couple of brats.
“Anyway, one of them touched his cap
and says, ‘Excuse me, sir’ —I liked th’
bloody ‘sir.’ He says, ‘Excuse me, sir,
would it be all right for us to take him
away?’
“Well, he didn’t belong t’ me. He
was dead. So I says, ‘Certainly, that’s
all right, lads. Course y’ can take him.’
They were a couple of nuggety little
blokes, and they both touched their cap
at me, an’ one of them got him by th’
boots and the other one got him round
th’ shoulders, and they marched off. I
just thought they were takin’ him away
t’ bury him, an’ I wouldn’t have taken
any more notice only I happened t’ see
’em turn out on t’ th’ pier. I thought,
‘Now, that’s bloody funny. What th’
hell are they takin’ him out there for?’
Then I see a flamin’ boat there. It’s one
of them towboats they used t’ bring some
of th’ stuff ashore in. I could see th’
few other blokes on board shakin’ their
heads an’ sayin’ somethin’ to them, and
they stood there for a bit as if they was
goin’ t’ come back with* him. Anyhow,
they must have got told it was 0.k., an’
they lifted him across an’ th’ blokes
aboard took him.
“I thought, ‘Well, that beats th’ band.’
I see then they were doin’ somethin’ with
him, an’ th’ whole damn’ thing’s so bloody
funny that I got up on top of the
ammo t’ take a decco. I see them undo
th’ rope an’ get her goin’, and she wtfs
headed sort of side on t’ me, makin’ out
t’ sea. An’ there they had him, lyin’
straight along in th’ middle of th’ deck.
They’d wrapped him up in a flag. It was
a Union Jack. Y’ could see it; it looked
spankin’ new. Th’ sun was shinin’ on it.
know, Bricky,” MacGowan said,
i “I’m damned if I know, but that
got me. What could y’ make of a damn’
funny thing like that? Those couple of
kids couldn’t have known that bloke
from Adam. I dunno —it’s only the idea
that struck me —but it seemed t’ me they
just wanted t’ take him. I mean what got
me was, the way it happened it seemed
as if they was a couple of English kids an’
they just wanted t’ take one of our blokes
off an’ sort of pay him th’ compliment
of givin’ him a burial at sea. I reckon
it could have been. Some bloody funny
things happened in that show.
“Anyhow, that’s all I could make of
it. I stood up there on top of th’ stack
watchin’ them headin’ out. Y’ know,
th’ sea there was as smooth as a lake.
They were headin’ away out across a bit
t’ tfi’ Ibft. Y’ could see th’ sun shinin’
on th’ flag on the deck. Th’ last I saw of
them they was still headin’ right away
out, an’ y’ could see the sun on th’ flag
wrapped round him. I dunno. Bricky; I
always think that was about th’ proudest
bloody sight I ever saw.”
“Lissen,” Bricky commented, “if a
bloke could tell ’em half th’ funny damn’
things that happened, Mac, they’d start
t’ know somethin’. I’ll tell y’ what could
have been somethin’ extra funny, too,
Mac. Could easy ’a’ been. There was a
good few of ’em with us in th’ first lot.
Wouldn’t it have been extra bloody funny
if he’d been an Englishman! ”
MacGowan gave the idea a grin.
“Yes,” he said ; “but I reckon he wasn’t,
though. He was Australian, all right.
Anyhow, he wouldn’t worry.”
THE CHOKO VINE
BY OLIVER FILTER
MY grandfather, a keen gardener
who always planted by the stars,
once planted a choko when the
moon was full. Actually, accord-
ing to the best astrological authorities, he
should have been harvesting artichokes*
on that particular evening, but he was
misled either by a typographical error or
criminal carelessness on the part of his
favorite astrologer. Anyway, whatever
the cause of the mistake, it proved to be
his undoing.
There were no grounds for suspicion at
first The young grfeen plant came
divinely springing, inclining itself to the
sun and soaking up the water and fer-
tiliser which Grandfather lavished upon
it. Its soft green tendrils reached out as
gently as a baby’s hand and caught the
fence and supports we erected for it. It
seemed almost that the slightest breeze
would tear the seedling from its supports.
Then, almost overnight, the vine estab-
lished itself.
Grandfather was delighted and
wrote an article on growing chokos
for his morning paper’s gardening
column. And all the while he boasted of
it and reaped its fruit for ourselves and
for distribution among his relatives, the
vine grew and grew, .
In less than twelve months its coiling
stems had invaded the backyards of three
houses behind our place, and had moved
into the yards of both our next-door
neighbors
They objected at first, but soon suc-
cumbed to the temptation of the heavy
green fruit they reaped from the vine.
In our own home our lives were domi-
nated by the thing. The whole backyard
was enclosed by it; mother was experi-
menting with choko omelette and cheese-
and-choko savories, while the shelves of
the pantry would have groaned under
bottles of choko jam and mushroom and
choko sauce if shelves could groan.
Although we were wearying of the
things. Grandfather was exuberant —the
vine was the light and triumph of his
fading days and he gloried in it
The first hint of trouble came with the
milkman. He tired of having to brush
his way past a tangle of choko vine every
morning and, in a temper, tore off
several stems. Next morning when we
went to bring in the milk the jug was
empty. Mother complained and the
milkman gave her a fresh two pints, but
when the same thing happened three
times running both Mother and the milk-
man became sick of the business and
therfc was a terrific row. The following
morning we found the jug shattered to
fragments on the back steps.
Mother was furious and rang the milk
company and threatened to sue them,
but, on the same morning, I found milk
dripping from the tendrils of one of the
choko creepers. I was immediately sus-
picious, but the enormity and apparent
ridiculousness of the idea kept me silent.
(i Continued on page 32.)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MOSCOW MANOEUVRES.
Allowing that all the four parties at
the Moscow conference —the British,
U.S., French and Russian Foreign
Ministers, their deputies and their ad-
visers—have been acting in good faith
and with goodwill, then all the issues
discussed, the dilemmas to be resolved,
the compromises to be made, and any
peace treaty for Germany to be roughed
out, would centre on the one main
problem: How to re-establish a Germany
that can function in its normal, natural
role of supplier and consumer, vital to
the economic welfare of all Europe, with-
out rebuilding a Germany able and will-
ing to launch a third world war.
The dangerous alternative to re-estab-
lishing Germany in its natural economic
role—and without much further delay—
is, as the N.Y. “Times” has simply
stated it, that of “converting her into a
moral and economic plague spot that
would poison all Europe and the world.”
This has already been very largely
brought about by the partial implement-
ing of the now notorious “Morgenthau
plan,” premised on naked and bitter
vengeance. What even the partial en-
forcement of that “plan” has brought
about has been plainly shown in scores
of reports, above all the most capable
tloover report, on not only the dreadful
conditions of starvation and disease in
Germany, but on the disastrous effects
this has had elsewhere in Europe, to say
nothing of the immediate cost to the
U.S. and Britain, and now the probable
cost to Russia through diminished repara-
tions.
Because of these and related effects, the
purely vengeful “Morgenthau plan,”
which, in contempt of the simplest tenets
of economics, aimed to convert over-
night the major supplying and consum-
ing nation of a-'-cpntinent into a goat
pasture, is now, by h huge turn of irony,
hastening the re-establishment of a Ger-
many stronger than might otherwise have
been agreed to for years. The controlled
Germany has been reduced to a stage
of collapse which is impelling Germany’s
U.S.-British controllers to consider its re-
vival as a matter of first urgency, as much
in their own self-interest as on grounds
of common humanity and European and
world welfare and peace.
Apart from the larger grounds, the
self-interest of both Britain and the U.S.
is to end the costs to their taxpayers of
occupying Germany and getting it func-
tioning again in its vital role, and also
recovering the past and future costs. The
self-interest of Russia is a Germany
capable of paying vast reparations. The
self-interest of France —offset by a natural
fear of a strong Germany not so menac-
ing to the others —is that without a nor-
mally functioning Germany France can
no more function prosperously itself than
can any of the other countries whose
prosperity inescapably depends on a pros-
perous Germany.
Soviet Folly
Under the “Morgenthau plan” not one
of those self-interests, as time has mean-
while been steadily proving, could pos-
sibly have been met.
That plan can be dismissed now as a
mere mean-spirited prostitution of states-
manship, but it is not the only colossal-
folly having present ironical effects in the
peacemaking. It is, if anything, over-
matched by a Russian folly, natural
enough in view of the devastation Russia
suffered in the war, and the current
dangerously explosive Soviet domestic
troubles, but also not to be dissociated
from common gluttony.
Like the prime fool of the fable, the
Soviet’s first act in victory was to set
about killing the goose that might lay the
golden egg. Thfe dismantling of German
factories and the transporting of them to
Russia —all that folly of hasty greed is
well known. Every plant taken made the
German payment of reparations less pos-
sible. Certainly too late, the Russians
called a halt to it; now, at the Moscow
palavers, they find it necessary to press for
building a Germany of a strength night-
marishly frightening to France.
The measure of the Russian folly is
most readily seen in the Soviet retreat
from Potsdam to Moscow on the issue of
the steel production to be allowed to
Germany. At Potsdam the British sug-
gestion was for an allowed production of
11,000,000 tons a year. The howls of
those who had swallowed the Morgenthau
folly were outmatched by the Soviet
screams, of course imputing the most
sinister designs to Britain. The brilliant
Soviet economists insisted, at Potsdam,
that Germany must be allowed an annual
steel output of not more than 3,500,000
tons. Again of course, this sum became
a magic figure in the Communist abra-
cadabra everywhere.
And now, at Moscow, the same bril-
liant Soviet brains —or those succeeding
them if they were liquidated for the
Potsdam folly—have insisted on an al-
lowed steel production for Germany of
“between 10,000,000 and 12,000,000 tons
a year,” which, as Mr. Bevin redundantly
pointed out, was simply what Britain ori-
ginally sflggested, and, as Mr. Marshall
with like redundancy recalled, was in con-
siderable contrast' to the Soviet insistence
at Potsdam that “the reconstruction of
German economy for reparation pur-
poses was undesirable.”
The Vital Issues
The central issue for Moscow and sub-
sequent peacemaking efforts getting
Germany functioning usefully again on a
lasting basis without endangering peace
—can be broken down into a host of
related issues, some of them, apart from
that of reparations, neatly enough packed
into this series of questions posed by
N.Y, “Daily Mirror”;
Shall Germany again be a sovereign nation
with the right of its people to choose their own
Government, unmolested and unhampered? If
so, is it to be all of Germany or a Germany
divided into four or three or two parts?
If Germany is t%be a sovereign State, are all
foreign troops and foreign agencies of control
—Frankfurt ( Germany ) “Neue Presse.”
"I’d like to buy a puppy
"For how many people?”
to leave her territory? If not, how many of
them stay and for how long?
Under the terms of the Morgenthau plan
Germany is being reduced to a standard of
living lower than Russia. Is the Morgenthau
plan to be totally discarded? If it is to be
discarded, what economic steps are to be taken
for German rehabilitation and who is to take
them?
Austria is economically incapable of living
alone. She does not possess the foodstuffs for
her people or the raw materials for her in-
dustries. Is Austria to be united to Germany?
If so, is she to be united to the whole of
Germany or is a Catholic German State to be
created consisting of Austria and Bavaria?
The Austro-Hungarian Empire lived on the
economy of the Danube. Is the Danube to be
a free river or is it to be controlled by a pro-
Russian Danubian League? Is Austria to be
inside or outside the League? If in the League,
then Austria will be a Soviet satellite State;
if out of the League, then Austria must be
federated with Germany.
•To a living Germany, the Ruhr is what the
Ohio Valley is to a living America. If the
Ruhr is taken from Germany, how can Ger-
many live? If both the Ruhr and Silesia are
taken from Germany, how can that country
be rehabilitated? If Germany is not to be
rehabilitated, who is to feed and clothe and
care for the people of Central Europe? Can
the world carry the millions of human beings
in Middle Europe everlastingly on a non-
productive basis? Can the United States?
To the foregoing summary N.Y.
“Daily Mirror” added the comment:
“These problems, rather than boundaries,
face the Council of Foreign Ministers.
They will have to mefet them with states-
manship or the cost of Germany’s im-
poverishment will drag us all down.”
The Hoover Report
A grim picture of that impoverishment
was given in the report made in February
by former U.S. President Herbert Hoover
on the economic investigation of Ger-
many he undertook for Mr. Truman.
No one reading that report could fail to
be impressed by Mr. Hoover’s great
ability and integrity and his humanity;
and, after all, the decisions of Moscow
and subsequent peace conferences must
all depend on the human element in the
long run.
The report, dealing only with the com-
bined American and British zones, pro-
vides at once a’guidance and a dramatic
background to the Moscow proceedings.
It points out that the 1939 population of
about 34,200,000 for the two zones has,
by expulsions from the Russian and
Polish annexations and elsewhere, been
increased to about 43,000,000, or some
9.000. above what it was when U.S.-
Britain took over. The increase, how-
ever, is made up of anything but skilled
manpower:
For the whole of Germany, it is estimated
that 5,700,000 were killed or permanently in-
jured [in the war]. It is also estimated that
over 3,000,000 prisoners-of-war are held in
work camps in Russia, 750,000 in France,
400.000 in Britain and 40,000 in Belgium. The
detention of large numbers of skilled Sudeten
German workmen in Czechoslovakia bears on
this problem.
As applied to the American and British zones,
this represents a present subtraction of over
6.000. of the most vital and most skilled
workers in the population. Likewise, the 90,000
Nazis held in concentration camps, and the
1.900.000 others under sanctions by which they
can only engage in manual labor, naturally
comprise a considerable part of the former
technical and administrative skill of the country.
It means also a great disproportion of
the sexes —between six and seven million
more women than men; living in these
almost unimaginable conditions:
The housing slfWtion in the two zones is
the worst that modern civilisation has ever
seen. About 25 per cent, of the urban housing
was destroyed by the war. Therefore, 25 per
cent, of the urban population must find roofs
from among the remaining 75 per cent., in
addition to all the destitute “expellees” and
other groups brought in. There has ,been
little repair of damaged houses because of lack
of materials and transportation. The result of
all this is that multitudes are living in rubble
and basements. The average space among tens
ot millions is equivalent to between three and
four people to a 12ft. by 12ft. room. Nor
is the overcrowding confined to urban areas,
for the “expellees” have been settled into every
farmhouse. One consequence is the rapid
spread of tuberculosis and other potentially
communicable diseases.
It must be borne in mind that about 25 per
cent, of the German pre-war food production
came from the 'areas taken over by Russia
and Poland. Moreover, the Russian military
zone in Germany was -a large part of the bread
basket of Germany. Some millions of tons
formerly flowed into the American and British
zones from these areas. These sources now
contribute nothing.
The British and American armies and civilians
are entirely fed from home. The large Russian
army is fed upon their zone.
This terrible winter, with frozen canals and
impeded railway traffic, has rendered it impos-
sible to maintain even the present low basis of
rationing in many localities. The coal shortage
and the consequent lack of heat, even for
cooking, has added a multitude of hardships.
The conclusions in this report as to the food
situation are, however, not based upon the effect
of this temporary dislocation, but upon the
basic conditions, to which the winter has added
many difficulties.
Over half of the 6,595,000 children and
adolescents, especially in the lower-income
groups, are in a deplorable condition. Their
situation is better in limited localities where
school feeding has been undertaken, but outside
these limits stunted growth and delayed de-
velopment are widespread. In some areas famine
edema (actual starvation) is appearing in the
children. A study of groups of boys between
the ages nine and sixteen years showed 5.5
pounds under minimum standard weights, with
girls 5.1 pounds below such standard. Other
groups studied showed even worse conditions.
A considerable part of the “normal con-
sumer” group of 17,910,000 is likewise in
deplorable condition.
This group comprises the light physical
workers and is in large majority women, and
many are aged. A large part of the group
shows a steady loss of weight, vitality and
ability to work. A study in the British zone
shows urban adult males 19 pounds and females
nearly five pounds under proper weight. A
study in the American zone showed from five
to twenty pounds under proper weight. Famine
edema is showing in thousands of cases, slated
to be 10,000 in Hamburg alone. The increased
death roll among the aged is appalling. In
persons over 70 in three months last autumn
the increase was 40 per cent.
While the workers’ rations, with supplements,
are perhaps high enough in themselves, yet the
universal tendency is for the worker to share
his supplement with his wife and children, and
therefore it does not have its full effect in
supplying energy for the worker himself.
Holding that “No one can say that in
her utterly shattered state Germany is a
present economic menace to the world,”
Mr. Hoover made detailed recommenda-
tions on recovery measures, including a
recommendation regarding repayment by
Germany which has been entirely adopted
not, as suggested in cables, originated
by both Mr. Bevin and Mr. Marshall
at Moscow. Mr. Hoover declared that
“the great sums spent on relief of the
German civilian population,” as well as
the sums he recommended should be still
spent, should be a first charge on German
production—a recommendation he also
made after the other world war, when i;
was adopted and the expenditures duly
repaid. Mr. Hoover’s report concluded
Our determination is to establish such
regime in Germany as will prevent for ever agai
the rise of militarism and aggression within
these people. But those who believe in ven
geance and the punishment of a great mass o;
Germans not concerned in the Nazi conspirac
can now have no misgivings, for all of them —
in food, warmth and shelter —have been suite
to the lowest level known in a hundred year
of Western history.
If Western civilisation is to survive in Europ
it must also survive in Germany. And Germany
must be built into a co-operative member o
that civilisation. That, indeed, is the hop
of any lasting peace.
After all, our flag flies over these people
That flag means something besides military
power.
Headache for Russia
Adopting Mr. Hoover’s proposal, Mr
Bevin at Moscow, with Mr. Marshall’s
full support, said he could not agree to
any payment of reparations from curren
German production (sought by Russia;
until “Germany had a balanced economy
could repay all that had been advancec
to her, and could pay her external occu
pation costs.”
Stating that “This burden of the British
taxpayer must be lifted,” Mr. Bevin went
even further. Going on the Potsdam
principle that Germany should be treated
as an economic whole, he stated: “There
shall be an equitable sharing between the
occupying Powers of the burden of the
cost of the occupation of Germany, past
present and future; and expenditure so
incurred shall be recovered from Ger-
many as a first charge on production”—
that is, before any deliveries of repara-
tions.
What this means to Russia, which has
a bill in for $10,000,000,000 reparations
(of course dismissed by both Mr. Bevin
and Mr. Marshall as an utter impossi-
bility), has been neatly pointed out in
editorial comment by London “Times”:
Britain and America do not object in prin-
ciple to reparations out of current production
but the first claim on any German expor
surplus should in their reckoning be for re-
payment of costs incurred by Britain am
America in occupying western Germany and
importing essential food and goods. On present
plans western Germany cannot possibly reach
equilibrium on a minimum living standard, let
alone achieve an export surplus, before 1950
By that time the British claim for repaymeni;
alone may amount to some $1,500,000,000;
the American will be little less. These claims
could scarcely be repaid before 1960. In effect
reparations from west German current produc-
tion could not begin to be paid for nearly 15
years.
Nor is this all, for, say the Western Powers
all this presupposes the establishment of
economic unity—and that will involve an equa'
sharing of costs “past, present and future,’
as Mr. Beyin puts it, and an agreement that
no occupying Power shall use any German
resources, such as local food supplies for troops,
or locally-produced goods for reparations, save
by four-Power agreement.
Mr. Bevin and Mr. Marshall are in, effect
offering Mr. Molotov, in return for economic
unity and the remote prospect of reparations
from the current production of a perhaps higher
level of German industry, the opportunity of
forgoing the handsome dividend now drawn
from eastern Germany and contributing insteatl
a sum certainly not less than $100,000,000
year to meet the German deficit. To expect
Mr. Molotov to show interest in this propo-
sition is indeed to expect a lot. Yet it is the
most prudent offer that, in their own interests
and in those of the European economy as a
whole, the Western Powers can afford to make,
for, as they must inevitably see it, anything
less would involve what Mr. Marshall has
described as»paying in money at one end of
Germany to enable reparations to flow out at
the other.
Merely typical of the whole string of
dilemmas the difficulty of satisfactorily
resolving which makes it practically cer-
tain that only some sort of makeshift
peace can possibly be roughed out at
Moscow, the reparations deadlock could
be overcome by the huge loan from
America which the Kremlin has long
befen angling for, but by its own clumsy
arrogance has long since made utterly
hopeless.
As far as Britain is concerned, no
twinges of conscience attach to the huge
Soviet reparations claim. The U.S. con-
science is not so clear, though it was only
as “a basis for discussion” that Roose-
velt agreed at Yalta to the total repara-
tions sum of $20,000,000,000, half to go
to Russia. Not only did Britain stand
out of that absurdity, but at Moscow Mr,
Bevin has been able to produce what
London “Times” has described as “a
remarkably prophetic telegram” sent by
the War Cabinet in London to Mr. Chur-
chill at Yalta warning him against any
such commitment:
The Cabinet considered it “quite inadmissible
to state any figure for German reparations
until the possibilities are properly investigated
on the spot”; $20,000,000,000 spread over 10
years came to £500,000,000 sterling a year,
roughly equivalent to Germany’s pre-war gross


TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
“WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
“B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE,
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to —*
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY.
Brisbane, Queensland.
Safeguard the future
... of your family
... by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he has these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and combine the first-hand personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENCE
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond,
Chairman
Sir T. Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
P. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
Manager:
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Mgr.:
C. N. P. Whittle
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY PT . S
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops Itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic . Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—-
Cuticura Ointment, Soap
and Talcum Powder. .
CH&»
exports-that is, not allowing for any imports
““ItVnot’to be thought,” the telegram said,
“that this should be paid by Germany, b °mbed,
defeated, perhaps dismembered and unable to
pay for imports.” Ability to pay for unp
must have at least priority with reparations
Otherwise “we shall find ourselves paying for
the imports necessary to keep _ Germany alive
while others obtain the reparations.
Surviving German Mood
The Hoover report also makes an
appropriate, it could be a most significant,
background to another aspect of the
whole German problem —what likelihood
there will be of a re-established Germany-
being not merely able but also willing to
have another shot at war.
London “Times” commented on the
early Moscow discussions of German
disarmament, demilitarisation and de-
nazification, that “for all the recrimina-
tions exchanged, there is no doubt what-
ever that each has been substantially
accomplished long since in all four
zones” ; but what is the real mood pre-
vailing deep in the German people under
all this well-meaning endeavor at puri-
fication?
Of the many reports of failure to
accomplish what has been aimed at under
those heads, one of the most trustworthy
w'as probably that given in a statement
by the British Commander-in-Chief in
Germany, Sir Sholto Douglas, on March
25. Stating that the British zone had
“touched bottom” during the winter
privations, the Commander-in-Chief de-
clared that “the inhabitants have shown
themselves to possess a general lack of
faith in the benefits of democracy.” He
added: —
It is quite natural to expect that some form
of Nazism would look attractive. The Ger-
mans are saying they were better off under
Hitler than under democracy. Every story of
a German dying of cold, every report of a
breakdown in food distribution, every aggra-
vation of Germany’s situation is reported in full
in the German press, and it has been easy to
see to what extent this has helped to foster
the mood of brooding depression already
present in the German mind before the winter
started.
A yet more revealing indication of the
prevailing German mood can perhaps be
gained from the following extract from
a letter written by a German in thfc British
zone, Hans Georg Studnitz, and given
first place in the London “Times” corres-
pondence columns;
It seems very unlikely that any self-respecting
German, whatever may be his political creed,
will commit himself to the voluntary acceptance
of anything similar to the permanent political,
economic and cultural dismemberment of his
country. No threats will move him in that
direction. In a country where millions are
starving and freezing, where housing conditions
have become comparable only to Asiatic stand-
ards, in which millions of able-bodied men
are forcibly prevented from returning home and
other millions have been discriminated against
on account of their political past, in a country
where the terrible years of war, with ceaseless
bombing, have already acquired the fame of
the good old time, threats have lost their power
and the fear for the worst has gone. It seems
equally improbable that mere promises will
induce a majority of Germans to sign away
what they regard as the only right left to them:
to maintain an attitude of silent protest against
the breaking up of the German State and
nation. If Germany must be destroyed it will
have to be done without the consent of its
people. Honest Germans will rather prefer
the prolongation of foreign rule in the rest of
Germany for another 100 years than to re-
nounce German sovereignty over the Ruhr or
the Polish-administered territories.
In his further stated belief that “the
issue is not whethfer the peace terms shall
be introduced by Allied statute or by
means of a German Government, but to
shape them in a form acceptable to the
German people,” the German writer is
as good as certain to be greatly disap-
pointed. At Moscow Mr. Marshall, while
urging that “German representatives
ought to have the opportunity of stating
their views at the peace conference,” pro-
posed that “To avoid placing the respon-
sibility of signing the treaty on German
officials the Allies should require the
future German Constitution to contain a
clause placing the obligation of fulfil-
ment on the Gferman people,” a sugges-
tion which M. Bidault, with true Gallic
enthusiasm, hailed as “reasonable, accept-
able and elegant,”
However, with such things as the poll-
tical organisation and the geographical
shape of Germany added to all the other
ex t reme difficulties to be resolved, any
treaty is clearly still i long way off ; and,
going on the manceuvres in Moscow, if
what is eventually agreed to even
approaches being a wise treaty the age
of miracles will be here.
BEAR’S CLUTCH.
Based largely on information provided
by the Russian radio and press, London
“Economist” —“a reliable journal not
unfriendly to the Soviets,” as N.Y.
“Times” describes it —has drawn up a
damning indictment against Soviet Russia
on what is happening in Estonia, Latvia
and Lithuania.
Molotov had piously protested some
time back that it was “all nonsense
about the Sovietisation of the Baltic
countries.”
As quoted editorially by N.Y. “Times,”
the “Economist’s” report declares that the
—N.Y. "Sun.”
WORRIED BIRD.
Russians are deporting increasing num-
bers of the Baltic States’ populations to
the forced-labor camps in the Russian
interior and replacing them with tested
Communists. “The national leaders and
much of the intelligentsia of these States
were killed off or deported during the
first Russian invasion in 1940; the de-
portation of the larger populations,
classified according to progressive degrees
of ‘untrustworthiness,’ began after the
Russians returned in 1944.”
Today “All the principal officials are
Russians, sometimes under assumed
Baltic names, and Russian is the official
language. Imported Russian peasants
take over the holdings of the deportees,
sometimes under the names of the former
owners, and thousands of Russians are
being settled in the cities.”
The “Economist” commented: “If the
present rate of deporting Balts and im-
porting Russians is maintained for a few
more years the national characteristics of
Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia will dis-
appear.” Stating that “Since the total
population of the three States was only
six million, this process will not take
long,” N.Y. “Times” added:
The purpose of this drastic action, similar
to that already carried through by both
Russia and Poland in the German terri-
tones they annexed, is apparently to elimi-
nate a population which fought and .is still
fighting in the underground for national
independence, and to fortify Russia’s new
self-proclaimed borders with a human wall
from the interior whose adherence to Mos-
cow will be beyond doubt. But in the
process three nations still recognised as in-
dependent by the United States, and other
countries are, as nations, being annihilated
while the United Nations looks the other
way.
Americans have certainly tried hard
in bolstering U.N.O. into a really effec-
tive world force, but this sort of thing is
beating them. The present very wide-
spread feeling is that U.N.O. is a proved,
and only needs to be certified, utter
futility.
ZIONIST COMS.
It has died down appreciably since
J. Bull got fed up with the Palestine job,
and particularly with American criticism
and interference, but beforehand the anti-
British feeling being whipped up in the
U.S. on the Palestine issue was reaching
a dangerous state.
An aspect of it that hasn’t had the
attention it may have merited is the
Corns’ hand in it. In N.Y. “Journal-
American,” for example, Upton Close
reported at the height of the shouting;
The Left-wing press unanimously is pic-
turing the British as oppressors, terrorists,
Nazi-like killers, Fascists, anti-Semites.
You are expected soon to be hating
British soldiers as if they wore swastikas
and heiled Hitler,
A movie is on the way which will pic-
ture British soldiers in Palestine in the
same role as Nazi soldiers in Germany were
pictured not so long ago.
By going along with the Zionists, the
U.S. Corns had discovered a useful way
of doing their fifth-column job:
The most dangerous situation lies in the
fact that the Communists have at last found
a device which may separate the United
States and Britain.
The Palestine issue is the fuse.
If Americans can be made to hate
Britain sufficiently then Stalin can safely
bring about a blow-up in Palestine.
Look how Stalin is playing the game:
He is refusing admittance of Jews to
Russia but is helping them get into
Palestine, thus putting more and more pres-
sure on Britain. Meanwhile, his agents are
fanning the most violent anti-Sertiitism
among the Arabs.
“Make no mistake about it,” the
writer concluded, “this is the most dan-
gerous propaganda campaign Moscow
has yet launched.”
Like much else from that quarter, the
campaign would seem to have been over-
done. It was, however, uncomfortably
effective for a while, making the wishing
of the Palestine headache on to U.N.O.
a timely move.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Kathleen Mavourneen. —On March 24 Lon-
don “Times” commented on Mr. Bevin as
believing that “after all the upheaval and de-
struction of the war, and after years of Nazi
teaching and practice, it will be more than a
generation at best, and nearer 50 years, before
Europe can be considered safe from renewed
aggression.” By a neat coincidence, on the
same day the British political representative
in Tokyo, Mr. Gascoigne, was saying that
“whether the Japanese will assimilate democracy
remains to be seen —we will probably have to
wait 50 years before that is known.”
* * * *
Independent Burma. —One important thing
some of the “liberated peoples” who have been
whooping about their new-found “indepen-
dence” have yet to discover is how they will
really shape at managing their own affairs. A
London “Times” special correspondent, re-
porting from Burma that possibly proportion-
ately more British officials would be prepared
to stay on there than would want to stay in
India if they had some assurance of stability,
added that “there is no prospect of that in
Burma for the next few years.” The corres-
pondent further commented: “It is a sadden-
ing spectacle, for never in Burma’s history has
she had more need of experienced officials than
today. Partly owing to the political turmoil,
partly to the helter-skelter Burmanisatiqn of
the senior posts, the administrative machine is
running down at an accelerating rate. One only
has to walk round the streets of Rangoon to
realise that, and every report from the country
confirms it. The young nationalists have dis-
played little appreciation of the problems and
importance of administration.”
* * * *
Depression Prophets. Debunking the
numerous prophecies of depression in America,
N.Y. “World-Telegram” writer on economics
Lawrence Fertig points out that depressions
usually come along without warning. “In the
summer of 1929, just a few months before we
were engulfed in one of the worst depressions
in history, all the experts made rosy predic-
tions about the future.” Also, “hardly anybody
foresaw the sharp depression of 1920-21; yet
today everyone knows that a depression in
1947 is a certainty.” Adding that “a bust,
large or small, is generally taken for granted,”
Fertig himself looks into the crystal and finds
that “the much heralded depression will prob-
ably turn out to be nothing more than a mild
re-adjustment in some lines.” He finds comfort
in the fact that “businessmen have become very
prudent recently, and that action itself removes
one of the main causes of depression —wide-
spread speculation.” To which can be appended
the “World-Telegram” pronouncement; “If all
the economists who are predicting a ‘recession’
in 1947 were laid end to end, it might be a good
idea.”
• * * * *
Iron Horse’s Change of Diet. — In a fair
measure influenced by the Lewis-run coal strikes,
American railways are turning in a large way
to oil as a change of fodder for the Iron Horse.
The American Locomotive Company’s presi-
dent, Robert B* McCool, has stated that “95
per cent, of all new locomotive orders by the
nation’s railroads are for Diesel-electrics.” As
recently as just a few years before the war,
McCool stated, only 20 per cent, of new orders
were for Diesels. Most of the mere five per
cent, now being ordered for steam are “for
use on railroads that derive most of their freight
revenue from hauling coal.” Efficiency, econo-
my and ease of operation were other factors
mentioned as influencing the change, but N.Y.
“Times” has quoted engineers as stating that
“each new coal strike helped swell the demand
for oil-burning equipment.”
* * * »
Britain and Turkey. “Times” cor-
respondent in Turkey, discussing U.S. aid to
that country, has commented that “The grant
of American assistance, far from affecting ad-
versely Anglo-Turkish relations, has served to
emphasise the solidarity of the affiance.” The
correspondent made the further very pointed
comments: “President Truman’s message apart,
the issue upon which the attention of people
here [Turkey] is focused is the possibility of
discussions taking place in Moscow for the
extension of the Anglo-Soviet alliance. It is
believed that the question of the Straits would
be one of the matters surveyed by Mr. Bevin
and Mr. Molotov. This belief is based upon
the joint Anglo-Russian guarantee given in
August, 1941, which ‘expressed their loyalty to
the Montreux Convention, declared that they
had no aggressive designs nor any demands to
formulate in regard to the Straits, and pledged
themselves to respect the territorial integrity
of Turkey.’ The date of this guarantee fol-
lowed shortly after the Anglo-Russian Agree-
ment of July 12, 1941, and preceded the formal
Treaty of Alliance of May 26, 1942, Article 5
of which provides that Great Britain and the
Soviet Union will act in accordance with the
two principles ‘of not seeking territorial aggran-
disement for themselves and of non-interference
in the internal affairs of other States.’ ”


i
mm.
m
f*
mi
m
m
M
‘
ii
I
I
IB
■h
■
3
ARBITERS OF FASHION
IN the hey-day of Victorian grandeur, Courtaulds were firmly established as acknow-
ledged leaders of fashion. Outstanding among contemporary manufacturers, they were
producing rich and beautiful fabrics unique in design and finish, which exactly accorded
with the stately formalism of the period.
Demand became so insistent that many additions and extensions had to be made to all
of the company’s mills in Essex, England, where by the early ’Sixties several thousand
workers were employed.
To the present generation Courtaulds are famous for the development of rayon and
the lovely fabrics made with it. Tomorrow the name will be associated with new
developments destined to benefit mankind in a manner not less notable than the evolution
and perfection of rayon.
df
the largest rayon manufacturers in the British Commonwealth
Distributors overseas of Courtaulds Fabrics : Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
Distributors in Australia s
VICTORIA : (Head Office) Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty, Ltd.,
Qualeta House, 175 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Queensland i Erik B. Milne, 172 Edward Street, Brisbane.
new south wales : Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty, Ltd.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
south Australia : K. T. Flint. 178 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
west Australia : A. C. Mackie, Economic Chambers, 76 William Street, Perth.
Distributors overseas of Courtaulds Rayon Yarns : Lustre Fibres Ltd., Coventry, England.
Distributors in Australia :
n.s.w. : Vance & McKee Pty. Ltd., 235 Clarence Street, Sydney.
victoria : Vance & McKee Pty. Ltd., 40 William Street, Melb., C.l.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3506
Wednesday, April 23, 1947
ANOTHER DIET OF WORMS.
“While N.S.W. electors were trying to digest the McGirr election 'policy,’ which is a 1947 edition of Mr. Lang’s 1930 effort, 10,000 earthworms Were flown to Panama
for the platypus trio on their way to the Bronx Zoo.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H, K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior < David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
ANZAC.
On Friday all Diggers, and other Aus-
tralians and New Zealanders with them,
will commemorate Anzac in part,
Anzac the place; above all, what the
word stands for.
That is still a mixed quality, as the
commemoration feelings testify ; in none
more mixed than in the Diggers them-
selves. For them, as for many others —
more in this second post-war than ever—
the Day is a memorial of mates and
brothers and fathers. It is also a revival
of the old mateship; something to be
grateful for and celebrated. And, mixed
as yet inseparably with these feelings and
shared in by all, there is, quite distinct,
noble, intense and uplifting, the Spirit of
Anzac.
Naturally, because of its other associ-
ations for them all, the Diggers claim the
day as theirs. They have a prior right
to it. To dissect the Spirit of Anzac is
to find the heart of courage,' and they are
the living embodiment not only of that
highest of national qualities but of every-
where that the proof of it has been given,
by land, sea or air. Hence it is of no
account that few of them saw Anzac the
place. They have seen Alamein, and
that can stand for the rest.
For that, in the last analysis, is what
this Day is about. It has to do with
courage. That is its matchless value to
Australia. It is the flame of the nation.
If ever it should go out there would be
no Australia. That it is never likely to is
shown by the fierce clearness with which
it burns. Any other form of national
day is a pale candle to it. Neither would
it have any more life in it if, like the rest,
it was a mere halting and looking back
on the past. Its heart is all courage, and
courage never looked back only. That
is the full worth of Anzac, and it is tre-
mendous. It is not a mere dream out of
the past, but the inspiration to be some-
thing very great. For individuals if they
have it in them; for the nation because
it is there.
That is tradition; and while tradition
was never stronger it was also never
. stranger than this. Not that a touch of
strangeness ever harmed a tradition, but
this one of Anzac is quite singularly
strange. What other entire highest
national tradition is there anywhere
sprung from failure? Everywhere else
it is success, achievement, victory. The
bare story of Anzac is not only one of
failure in the end, but of failure at its
beginning, and even before that. The
failure was foredoomed, and not by the
insuperable in nature or enemy, but by
error and confusion. All that followed
was presaged and made inevitable by
that original failure.
The fault is now of no account, and
blame is worthless. But the fact is all-
important to the tradition. It brings
Destiny full on to the stage as leading
character in the drama, so lifting it right
at the beginning from the mundane level
to the plane of Homeric epic, at once
human and of the gods. That, in its
singular richness and completeness, is the
peculiar quality of Anzac. Other epi-
sodes of war the Diggers have been in
have their given measure of it, but none
in such a degree of immensity.
The recent war may be too near for
any comparison, if there could be any;
but most of what figure in the histories
as the bigger episodes of the other war
have little enough of the true dramatic.
There is not much difference in point of
size and none whatever in point of cour-
age between Anzac’s 400 acres and that
“tiny tongue of ground just over a mile
deep” by the Somme, the winning of
which in six weeks of bitter fighting
cost the Anzac Corps 23,000 men. But
in the dramatic comparison there is all
the difference.
The Somme is remembered only by
those dwindling numbers who were there,
and by these it is remembered as sordid.
Those dwindling others who were on
Anzac, even at its summer worst, think
of it exactly as it is thought of in
imagination. They see it, as all do, iso-
lated in legendary grandeur, with the
figure of Destiny towering over it. All
the other Digger fighting episodes have
their own particular qualities, but none
of them has anything of which Anzac is
not the epitome and the prototype. It is
not only first; it is unique.
The actual story of Anzac has been
clearly told by the Australian Official His-
torian ; it has been draped in the mantle
of poetry by the poetic current in Mase-
field’s masterpiece of laudatory prose ; it
has been finely narrated in their different
styles by lan Hamilton and Compton
Mackenzie and Nevinson. Another, and
no less notable, contribution to the tell-
ing, not known as it deserves to be, is
John North’s Gallipoli: The Fading
Vtsion, published|pnly a year or two be-
fore the later war. Despite the sub-title
Anzac and Gallipoli altogether were any-
thing but a fading vision to North. At
Cambridge when the Landing happened,
he saw the Peninsula years after with the
Navy. Its own isolated grandeur and the
isolated grandeur of its story fascinated
him. He set down the whole of it; and
the circumstances, with his clearness of
vision, give his book the notable merit
of representing Anzac as it is seen today.
He wrote of the Anzacs after they had
taken possession:
Although they were never in real danger
of being pushed back into the sea, these
twenty thousand men were called upon to
fight strenuously and heroically to defend
their cavelike existence on the slopes of
those hills which they were to consecrate
by such a “sum of bravery” that there must
for ever reside in the name of Anzac a
magic and a splendor to uplift all hearts.
Individualising the Anzac, he wrote of
him:
when it was a question of putting up
a fight, the Australian soldier was as near
an approach to an unleashed devil in
human form as the annals of war are ever
likely to celebrate. He walked the earth
with “careless and dare-devil self-confi-
dence”: the navy, far out at sea, could
always tell an Australian by his “casual
gait He affected towards shell or rifle
fire an attitude of complete indifference
which was simply the natural expres-
sion of his self - respect.” He went
into battle to the cry of “Come on, Aus-
tralia!” He demanded neither leading
example; he engaged in war as an in-
dividual enterprise: “eveay man did his
job', got ahead, and wanted no call to do
so.” In fine, he was perfectly equipped for
the personal type of warfare that was in-
evitable on the corrugated Anzac front.
When North adds that “He was also
equipped—and to a better purpose—to
make a dash for the Narrows” he is think-
ing of what might have been but for
human failure ; he is bringing Destiny in
person on to the stage. Apart from a
prior hand in the full advance advertise-
ment of the campaign, Destiny was there
as guide to the Landing. As North
records that all-important contribution to
the early failure, hence to the failure as
a whole and all else that makes up the
tradition:
It was half-past three in the morning—
half an hour after the moon’s setting—
when a line of twelve tows in the black
darkness, carrying 1500 men, set out on the
last stage of their t critical journey to the
beach north of Gaba Tepe. Twelve small
steamboats, each towing three ships’ boats,
formed the flotilla... .The naval officer in
the steamboat on the right of the line was
responsible for giving direction, and steer-
ing by compass to land his own tow on the
extreme right of the selected beach; the re-
maining tows having been instructed to keep
in line at a lateral interval of 150 yards.
Shortly after four o’clock this officer caught
sight of Ari Burnu on his port bow. However,
the northerly current that sets along the
Gallipoli coast was “stronger than the
sailors had realised”; and being unaware
that it had already imperceptibly carried the
line a full mile to the north, he mistook
this headland for Gaba Tepe, and in the
belief that he was a mile south of his course
he at once starboarded his helm: where-
upon the whole flotilla swung northwards.
At the same time the naval officer in charge
of the flotilla, on the extreme left of the
line, realising that the covering force was
now likely to land at least two miles north
of the intended landing place, at once
swung his tow to the south, and placed
himself on the extreme right of the line.
The flotilla was now nearing the coast,
and by heading for Ari Burnu he could
do no more than partially retrieve the error.
Day was just breaking when the steam-
boats cast off their tows and the ships’ boats
began to paddle the remaining 50 yards to
the still silent shore. A few minutes be-
fore the boats grounded, and as the first
bullets from a sentry group on Ari Burnu
were “striking sparks out of the shingle,”
the voice of the naval officer in charge of
the flotilla broke the silence with perhaps
the most fateful cry in the whole history
of the Gallipoli Campaign. “Tell the
colonel,” he shouted, “that the damn fools
have taken us a mile top far north.”
So, with the equipment-loaded Anzacs
leaping waist-deep into the water, their
wading ashore —not all ’of them—and the
fighting joined in the semi-darkness of
that unknown place, began the dramatic
epic of Anzac. What might have been
suggested itself to North, treading again
many years afterwards those gravelled
hills and gullies where once in places
the whited bones had looked like snow-
drift :
Even the casual explorer of the ridges and
the gullies of Anzac must be weighed down
under the feeling that he walks within
prison walls; not until he emerges into
the plain of Maidos does he breathe again
the air of freedom. It is a reasonable pre-
sumption that the Australians would have
breathed this air of freedom to some pur-
pose, and in the light of later knowledge
there can be little doubt that an absolutely
forthright attempt to throw them direct
from Gaba Tepe to the Narrows —between
Sari Bair and the Killid Bahf plateau —
would have brought the campaign to a
singularly abrupt and successful conclu-
sion.
But Destiny would have none of that.
His will was bent on another and far
greater thing altogether. With the sweep-
ing military success which North indi-
cates there could not have been the singu-
lar epic of Anzac. There might have been
instead a mere feeding of vainglory. There
was, as it happened, the proving of the
highest qualities within the reach of mor-
tals, and the handing on of the tradition
of that as a national heritage and inspira-
tion. In a word, Anzac.
ONE Man with Guts.
When strikes in Victoria and N. S. Wales
and election defeats in South Australia
and Westralia had brought the expecta-
tion of disaster to the “ ‘Labor’ Govern-
ments” headed by Mr. McGirr, Mr.
Hanlon and Mr. Cain, Mr. Chifley an-
nounced the unpegging of wages. In
conformity with party practice he
passed the buck to the Acting Chief
Judge of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, at the same time entering upon
a process of shearing that Court of all
its judicial powers save for the deter-
mination of the Commonwealth basic
wage, annual leave, minimum rates of
pay for female employees and working
hours; and, in respect of N. S. Wales,
the McGirr “Government,” in a
paroxysm of election bribery but with
doubtful constitutional validity, has
taken the working-hours issue out of
its hands. The Federal Caucus, for its
part, had decided to remove water-
front labor from the Court’s juris-
diction and to appoint a host of
Conciliation Commissioners with arbi-
trary powers of legislation on wages
and working conditions in other trades
and callings, each Commissioner a law
to himself.
During the Commonwealth election
campaign the Prime Minister insisted,
and continued to insist until last month,
that control of wages and prices foi' an
indefinite period was necessary to combat
inflation. Either he was putting up a
pretence during that campaign and after-
wards, and his Attorney-General with him
(Dr. Evatt’s idea was that wages and
prices should be controlled till at least
the end of 1947), or he has sacrificed
the national interest, as he then viewed
it, to political expediency. That he will
have to go on and surrender control
of prices is obvious. This is realised
by Mr. McGirr. That worthy,
in a policy speech which promised
the moon to everybody except “the
capitalists,” Booze and Betting capi-
talists doubtless excepted, said that the
Commonwealth was “about to vacate the
price-fixing field,” and that his “Govern-
ment,” if re-elected, \vould, “as soon as
Parliament reassembles, introduce a
Price-Fixing Act,” empowering a “com-
petent and impartial tribunal to fix prices
equitable to both producer and con-
sumer”—again, though he did not say
so, regardless of constitutional obstacles,
and also of what the dogs are barking
about bribery and corruption in the
existing price-fixing business.
Before Mr. Chifley weakened the
A.C.T.U. had taken up the Communist
cry that wage-pegging must be abolished
but price-control maintained, and the
Communist-engineered strikes in key in-
dustries, particularly in N. S. Wales and
Victoria, were aimed at enforcing this
demand. Maybe in the A.C.T.U.’s
opinion “Labor” had been concentrating
on placating Sydney militants and. letting
Melbourne fend for itself. At any rate.
Communist-controlled unions in Victoria
proceeded to reduce the Cain Ministry to
mumbling impotence by threatening to
extend the metal-trades strikes into a
general stoppage. So Mr. Cain went to
Canberra to see Mr. Chifley, and Mr.
Chifley went to Melbourne to see Mr.
Cain. There followed the Chifley edict
that the pressure groups would be placed
in a position to get what they wanted,
conditionally on the Acting Chief Arbi-
tration Judge certifying that their appli-
cations to the Court would not con-
flict with “the national interest.”
But the inglorious Chifley form of
appeasement failed to produce the im-
mediate effect ajmed at. The metal-trades
strikes went on. A reference of the
engineers’ case to Conciliation Commis-
sioner Mooney resulted in an offer of
wage-increases, ss. to 9s. a week, pro-
vided the strikes were called off. The
offer was refused and the case was taken
to the Arbitration Court in the impudent
expectation that the Arbitration Court
would disown its Conciliation Commis-
sioner. It, of course, upheld him, the
Acting Chief Judge reminding the unions
concerned, particularly the Amalgamated
Engineering Union, that “it is the practice
of the Court to refuse to hear applications
while either or both parties are violating
an existing award.”
In the result, after feeble A.C.T.U.
manoeuvres, the Communists and “mod-
erates” of the Amalgamated Engineering
Union carried out their threat to extend
the strikes, and the Communist-controlled
Railwaymen’s Union joined them and the
Ironworkers in their war on the Victorian
people. In a distracted statement from
the sidelines Mr. Cain imparted this in-
formation to the community, already con-
cerned with the loss of jobs, takings and
transport, and with fuel and lighting re-
strictions, adding that there was one
gleam in a dark sky:
Communists have failed to induce the
tramwaymen to join in the unauthorised
strikes. The tramwaymen realise that the
Communists are trying to make them pawns
in their plans to dislocate industry further
and cause untold hardship.
And thereby hangs a tale of continent-
wide significance. Only a few weeks ago
these tramwaymen had a union election
on which the Communists brought their
full force to bear, appealing no doubt to
sectarianism and bespeaking support for
candidates of Irish origin who, with, Mr.
Brown, of the A.R.U., had seen the
Red light. A Mr. Cullen had put up for
president and a Mr. O’Shea for secretary,
and after the votes had been counted
Mr. Cullen and Mr. O’Shea were de-
clared elected. Their election was hailed
by Mr. Brown as a victory for the
Revolution or something.
Egged.on by Mr. Brown, Mr. Cullen
and Mr. O’Shea summoned a mass meet-
ing of the union, intent on securing its
authority for a strike or, in the alternative,
for the running of trams under restric-
tions which the Federal secretary of the
union, who can’t be a Communist, pro-
nounced “impossible.” A Communist
official of the Engineering Union was on
hand to “remind the men that the A.E.U.”
had “supported the Tramways Union,
and that it was up to the tramwaymen to
reciprocate.”
This A.E.U. Communist, a Mr. Rowe,
had been preceded by Mr. Cullen. Mr.
Cullen said his “executive” had “pointed
out to the Tramways Board that running
of trams to handle all metropolitan traffic
would subject passengers, crews and equip-
ment to considerable danger. Mr. Bell,
chairman of the board, had replied that
the trams would run.”
And the trams did run. All last week
they ran, whei* there was power to service
them, and Communists and “moderates”
looked on in impotent fury. Hector
Hercules Bell the chairman’s name is,
and his trams not only give the com-
munity a modern service but return
steady profits while the McGirrs and
Heffrons and O’Sullivans see their trams
and buses pile up terrific losses and
scurry for cover when the unions take
them off the roads. He knows, this old
man —he is 68—that the great mass of
decent unionists want to do their
duty to their fellow - citizens and
their State and their Commonwealth, and,
in the teeth of Communists and “moder-
ates,” he has given them leadership-
leadership for which they look in vain
to the Chifleys and Holloways, the Mc-
Girrs and O’Sullivans, the Cains and
Clareys, the Hanlons and Gairs. For
he has guts, and the main troubles of this
country proceed from the. fact that its
bosses in fields immeasurably more im-
portant than the field in which Bell’s
trams ply are wholly lacking in intestinal
fortitude. Any blatant Moscow crawler,
any parcel of wharfies or wheelers, can
put the wind up the lot of them.
Electors in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land are about to have the opportunity
of pronouncing judgment on this ignoble
business of government by pressure
groups. The majority of them should
know that there can be no hope of a fair
deal from “Labor” in power as a matter
of impartial administration. A vote of
confidence in the McGirrs and the
Hanlons would be the straight office
to them to go ahead with the
“Labor” policy of surrender to the
militants —not only by condonation of
shameless sabotage through strikes of the
country’s economic resources but actually
by yielding up the conduct of govern-
ment to union leaders, Communists and
“moderates.” And, especially where the
Clareys and Holloways are concerned,
“moderates” are, if anything, more con-
temptible than Communists. Mr. Mfenzies
has likened Mr. Holloway to “a decapi-
tated fowl” —expressive as to his acro-
batics in emergencies ; but you can eat
decapitated fowls. Forgetful not only of
his country but his colleagues and their
proclaimed arbitration policy, Mr. Clarey,
as president of the A.C.T.U., surrender-
ing himself into the hands of Communists,
called the May Day strike for the 40-
hours week and the rest. Had it come
off he would have had to go through the
motions of leading the strike and then
leading himself back into Mr. Cain’s
Cabinet —meeting himself going and com-
ing, as it were.


PLAIN ENGLISH
No Debate on Keane.
In the House last week attempts to have
the Goldberg-Keane-Kelly affair debated
were made by the Opposition. An ad-
journment motion, in the name of
Deputy-Leader Harrison, for “discussion
of the need for an inquiry into the ad-
ministration of the Division of Import
Procurement arising out of the Goldberg
case” was ruled out by the Speaker on the
ground that it would “involve reference
to matters that are sub judice.”
Moving disagreement with Mr. Rose-
vear’s ruling, and speaking on the fol-
lowing day, Mr. Menzies argued that
“the matters” were not “sub judice ” since
there were “no proceedings before the
Court.” Hfe added that “any newspaper
or individual can comment on the Gold-
berg case, but, according to the Speaker,
it cannot be discussed in Parliament.”
Mr. Holt, who had prepared notes for a
speech, was waiting for the Speaker’s call
when Minister Dedman came in with the
gag. This two d[ays after Mr. McGirr,
whose memory is imperfect, had boasted
that his crowd had never applied the gag
in the N.S.W. Assembly in his time as
Minister and Premier, being too high-
minded.
Mr. Dedman entered the House as
member for Corio (Vic.) \ia a by-election
held on March 2, 1940. During the by-
election campaign he and his leaders made
great play with an incident in which Mr.
Lawson, one of Senator Keane’s predeces-
sors as Minister of Trade and Customs,
had leased a racehorse from W. L
(“Knockout”) Smith, who was after
a car-manufacture contract. It was a
piece of folly on Lawson’s part, and it
wrecked his career. He resigned his
Ministerial post while Mr. Dedman was
campaigning, and seven months later lost
his seat,/Macquarie, to Mr. Chifley, whom
he had twice defeated.
This Lawson was a much younger man
than his successor, Mt. Dedman’s late
colleague. What is more, his breach of
Ministerial tradition was less serious in
every way than that imputed to Senator
Keane in the statement made to the
Customs by Goldberg concerning the
3000-dollars transaction in which he was
concerned with his “very dear friend.”
And when Mr. Dedman opened fire on
the unhappy young Minister Lawson’s
case —except that there were no Court
proceedings nor could there have been
any—was morally sub judice. Mr. Ded-
man’s troubles, and “Labor’s” troubles,
about that!
In the political-humbug line Mr. Ded-
man is about the nastiest piece of work
in sight. Unforgotten in Adelaide is his
damning of the Food-for-Britain move-
ment, and not even with faint praise, when
it was launched. While paying lip-
service to soldier-preference, he has
tried to justify the appointments to the
C.S.I.R. of the rejected politician
“Russia is always Right” Mountjoy and
the convicted Communist Rudkin. As
coldhearted as Earle Page is warmhearted,
he attempted to break the force of the
doctor’s able and telling case for in-
creased production and shipments of food
to Britain by alleging that the veteran had
bespoke rations for Grafton “when there
was a ‘yacaranda’ festival there” —to
which paltry irrelevancy the man from
Cowper replied that “there were
10,000 people away from their homes
and they were foodless.” And
apropos of Dr. Page’s plea that,
out of its abundance, well-nourished
Australia should supplement the British
rations of a shillingsworth of meat, two
ounces of bacon and ham and half an
egg per week, the Minister who is dead
from the diaphragm up bleated that
“when Mr. Fadden was P.M. he and his
party did not have the courage to impose
rationing.” It would have been a world's
folly, for then —August 29-Octpber 7,
1941 —Australia was bursting with food
for which there were no ships.
No division has suffered more than
'Corio from Communist and “moderate”
strikes and their sequels. If the Corio
electors could get at him they would
make short work of the dreary and dis-
ingenuous Dedman,
Two Coalmines.
Queensland’s Mr. Hanlon, electioneer-
ing at Mackay, ran into a couple of advo-
cates of a railway from Mackay to Blair
Athol as part of the development of coal
deposits at the latter place. “There will
be no interference,” boomed Mr. Hanlon,
“by any section looking for its own ad-
vantage or profit out of the Blair Athol
coalfield development scheme.”
The “Labor” Premier added that no-
body was going to “kid” him that any-
body knew any more than he did. After
saying something about the water re-
sources of the coastal belt, he got on to
Blair Athol:
A survey has given a reasonable assess-
ment of the vast quantity and quality of
the coal. It is one of the proposals before
the North Australian Development Com-
mittee Queensland can sell a million tons
of coal a year in the south, and if we can
get it through mechanisation at Blair
Athol at a price that will allow it to be
sold in the south, it will be a source of
tremendous energy The first thing the
experts have to establish is the economic
soundness of the project.
Fine words, but only words. If Mr.
Playford heard them amidst his labors
in Adelaide, it must have been with envy
for the luck of the Queenslanders in
having a coalfield like Blair Athol, with
an estimated 200,000,000 tons in a seam
70ft, thick, 50ft. below the surface, and
all 250 miles from the port of Rock-
hampton. It has lain there all the long
years of “Labor” rule.
Mr. Playford’s State has a coalmine at
Leigh Creek, about 400 miles from
Adelaide. In quality or quantity of coal
it is not to be compared with Blair Athol.
All the same, when Mr. Playford’s Gov-
ernment discovered that strikes and go-
slow on the N.S.W. coalfields and failure
to deal with them by the Sydney and
Canberra “ ‘Labor’ Governments” re-
sulted in the stoppage of S.A. industries
and transport, and the denial to S.A.
homes of electricity and gas, that Govern-
ment, in the face of open opposition
from Canberra and snarls from the
N.S.W. strikers, went to work and got
and used Leigh Creek coal.
It is still getting and using Leigh Creek
coal, and right now is putting in plant
to increase production to 20,000 tons a
week, almost four times present output.
And, strange as it may seem, Leigh Creek
workers don’t object to overtime or shift
work when told it is necessary to keep
“THE TIME HAS COME, THE WALRUS SAID”.
“Tactics may have to be changed several times in the period of a given stage of the
revolution according to the flow and ebb, the rise and fall of revolution. From the
“Foundations of Leninism ,” by Stalin, a textbook printed in Sydney and circulated by the
Communist party.
“Calling all comrades! Get ready for another twist!’
industry and other things going. It often
is necessary, since supplies of N.S.W. coal
are frequently held up by strikes, either
in N.S.W. mines or in ships or wharves
or on the Commonwealth Government
railways.
Mr. Playford’s is not a “Labor” Gov-
ernment and is therefore unimpressed
by outside opposition. It has just been
re-elected with an increased majority.
The South Australians —“hillbillies” to
the young lions of Consolidated Press,
Sydney —prefer deeds to words.
Hearts of Stone.
If Australians are set on any one thing
more than another it is on relieving the
worst necessity of the British people.
Irrespective of class, creed and politics—
though not all varieties of politics—
there is a tremendous impulse of kindli-
ness, inspired by respect for a courageous
kinsfolk and by the good old Australian
characteristics of sympathy, generosity,
loyalty and gratitude.
Any Commonwealth Government
claiming to be representative of the
pfeoph? would long sihee have recognised
that impulse and set in motion a great
flood of foodstuffs as a national gift.
That the name of Australia is planted in
British hearts is due solely to private
efforts which have not only never been
encouraged by the Canberra “Govern-
ment,” but have had to surmount its
opposition.
Even when the plight of the British
people was intensified, first by snowstorms
and then by floods, both of which de-
stroyed property, crops and livestock on
a vast scale, the Australian “Government”
could not rise above indifference.
The Prime Minister, unable to ignore
continent-wide demonstrations of senti-
ment —made clear in renewed appeals for
food and flood relief, in suggestions for
meatless days, in offers by producers and
processers and shippers of impressive
quantities of meat, and, in the State that
could help most, though its “Govfern-
ment,” save for a small and belated gift
of money, has chosen to ignore the sub-
ject, a R.S t L. “drive” for free fat lambs
initiated by an offer of 1500 lambs from
Digger-farmers—got off the absurd state-
ment that the Australian ration cannot be
reduced.
People who want more food to go to
Britain can achieve this end by a little
sacrifice. If they are determined not to use
all their coupons the saving would be very
considerable and would i provide an addi-
tional surplus for export.
A great many Australians, by sending
food parcels, from which Mr. Chifley s
post office collects sky-high postage,
have been making very real sacrifices for
a long time, both in food and money, and
when people on small incomes offered to
sacrifice food coupons they were snubbed
by the “Government’s” Dedman.
Mr. Chifley has been moved to appoint
a “Cabinet sub-committee, to meet next
week .” Australians know what these
Cabinet sub-committees are worth.
There was one on blackmarketing.
Action on the hold-up of food ships by
wharf strikes and stoppages would be
more to the point. Though the Orion’s
crew was itself prepared to load food
from Melbourne wharves, there was the
familiar “24-hours stop-work” and the
ship had to leave behind 5000 boxes of
butter, enough for a week’s 2oz. ration
for 2,240,000 British people.
This Commonwealth “Labor” Govern-
ment is guilty of many sins, but its failure
to do anything for the hungry British
(it gagged three times in five days a
motion to send the British £25,000,000-
worth of food) is one for which hun-
dreds of thousands of Australians will
never forgive it.
Political Journalism.
The N.S.W. Opposition-leaders lack what
Mr. Playford had in South Australia and
Mr. McLarty in the West —influential
daily-press support in the One Big City.
The “Advertiser” and the “West Aus-
tralian” are unexcelled among their con-
temporaries for fair reporting and for
honest and searching criticism, and neither
has lost its hold on steadygoing readers
by publishing starting-price supplements
and glorifying bookmakers, sporting pub-
licans and persons like Romano, if there
is any imitation of Romano beyond
Romano’s chosen stamping-ground.
Since David Syme died it has been
beyond the power of any newspaper or
group of newspapers to decide a general
election or a referendum. But honest and
fearless journalism can still guide and
swell and accelerate the current of public
opinion, and this the Adelaide “Adver-
tiser” and the “West Australian” did, in
each case without losing the respect of
opponents, always accorded to steady
principles and fair dealing.
Because of the gyrations of the racing-
mad Sydney daily and Sunday newspapers
their positive influence on general elec-
tions has been negligible for years. But
they may still produce some effect on the
unthinking by hinting doubts and hesitat-
ing dislikes and letting paragraphists play
their favorites ; and this ignoble game is
going on again in respect of the Assembly
contests.
Nomination day moved the “Morning
Herald” to a feeble show of opposition
to the “ ‘Labor’ Government,” notorious
for its subordination of housing, soldier-
settlement and industrial-law enforcement
to the Booze and Betting interests, pen-
sions for Assemblymen and the wicked
performances of strike bosses and mobs
—“the Opposition parties have real pros-
pects of shaking its large majority if ”
Startled by the silly and dapgerous pro-
posals of the McGirrs, the “Herald” has
since done better; but what a spirit to
carry into an election when the Wes-
tralian counterparts of the Opposition
parties have just triumphed over greater
odds! And the “Herald’s” junior con-
temporary, after questioning whether the
Liberal party was not another incarnation
of “the U.A.P. gang, which lived for
years on empty promises, fatuous vague
oratory, platitudinous pronunciamentos
and sheerly ignorant bavardage,” de-
clared that “whatever happened in South
Australia and Westralia is irrelevant to
N. S. Wales,” and returned to its carping
because Mr. Treatt had failed to compass
the earth in his policy speech on which
an hour’s broadcasting limit had been set
by A.B.C.
The “Daily Telegraph” may be an
authority on starting-prices, “glamorous”
bookmakers and beach brats in brassieres
and loincloths. What it doesn’t know
about public affairs and political trends
would fill all the bound volumes of the
“Women’s Weekly,” its flapper-partner in
its campaign for 10 o’clock bar-closing
—adverse majority, 400,000.
Both these papers seem to be support-
ing a Mr. Browne, an Independent,
against the young A.I.F. Colonel Robson
in the solid Liberal electorate of Vaucluse.
Mr. Browne’s chancfes are on a par with
those of the teams of “Labor” Cahills
(4) and retiring Independents Macdonald
(Mosman), Fitzgerald (Gloucester) and
Beale (South Coast), each assured of the
A.L.P. vote, for what it is now worth in
their districts. If the “Herald” and the
“D.T.” want to back the eight, their
favorite bookmaker Browning, who has
had the worse of an argument with the
Taxation Commissioner, would no doubt
be delighted to accommodate them
“under the lap.”
Houses and Hallucinations.
Calling Mr. Lucky:
A N.S.W. Housing Commission ballot is not
a very exciting affair. Many thousands ot
people have “put their names down for homes,’
but as a rule only a few score turn up at
the “radiotorium” of the ‘Labor” broadcast-
ing station where tlje drawings take place. Of
those who do, most are there for the first
time and almost all are there for the last time.
Before the drawing, speeches are made by the
deputy-chairman, Mr. Kelly, and others on the
great job the N.S.W. “ ‘Labor’ Government” has
done, the great job the N.S.W. “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernment” is doing and the great job the
“ ‘Labor’ Government” is going to do.
At a typical meeting last November Mr.
Kelly said that the Commission had built 5294
homes, 4107 were under construction and sites
had been chosen for. 3354 more. He further
stated that “at present 4500 building opera-
tives” [private builders employ workmen and
tradesmen, but the N.S.W. “Labor” Govern-
ment Housing Commission pins its faith to
operatives] “are working for the Commission
in 100 suburbs and 60 country towns.”
The draw then took place and 100 names were
announced. Among them was a man whom it
is fair enough to refer to as Mr. Lucky, since
anyone whose name comes out of a raffle hat
is entitled to feel that luck is on his side.
Mr. Lucky felt rather happy at the prospect
of a home for his wife and children after
years of sharing; and he quite naturally
concluded that his home was among the 5294
announced as “built.” A visit to the Com-
mission’s office soon disillusioned him. No
information could be given him of the loca-
tion of the house or when be would be per-
mitted to take possession. Nor could he find
out whether it was completed, half-completed,
or even begun. _ _
His spirits a tiifle dampened, Mr. Lucky
went home and discussed the matter with Mrs.
Lucky. After he had got over his initial dis-
appointment he cheered up a little. “Never
mind” he said. “It won’t be long. There were
only a hundred of us drew the lucky marble
and Mr. Kelly said they’ve got another 4107
houses on the way. Ours ought to be finished
soon.” Mrs. Lucky,wasn’t quite so sanguine.
“How long does it take 1.096- operatives to
build a house?” she wanted to know; and she
pointed out that if the .Kelly figures were
correct there were 1.096 workmen available
for each house. Mr. Lucky checked his wife’s
calculations and they decided not to make
any hasty plans for shifting.
During the next few weeks the Luckys made
a couple more visits to the Housing Com-
mission, but were unable to discover in which
of the 100 suburbs their 1.096 operatives were
at work. A month after the drawing Mr. Lucky
came home looking very worried, for Mr.
McGirr had stated that “since the end of
the war the Government has built 4111 homes/’
“They’re losing ground,” said Mr. Lucky. “A
month ago they’d built 5294. Now it’s down
to 4111. They’re slipping back.” When Mrs.
Lucky pointed out that the McGirr figures
were reckoned from the end of the war, while
the Kelly figures possibly went back further,
her husband brightened up, until a day or so
later when Mr. McGirr admitted to a per-
sistant enquirer that his figure of 4111 in-
cluded 1200 “dwellings” carved out of con-
verted Army huts.
During January there were more visits to the
Housing Commission, fruitless except for a
non-committal statement that the Lucky man-
sion, when available, would probably be some-
where near the district in which Mr. Lucky
worked. Several ballots had been held since
the Luckys’ win, but Mr. Lucky had been un-
able to find out whether any of the “prize-
winners” had been more successful than he in
securing a home instead of a promise.
Mr. McGirr became Premier of N.S.W. and
an announcement was made that occupants of
Commission homes would ultimately be given
the option of buying them. After nearly
three months of waiting, this statement had only
an academic interest to Mr. Lucky, but- at
least it suggested to him that there were some
people occupying Commission homes.
Mr. Clive Evatt took over the Housing port-
folio from Mr. McGirr and a few days later
(Continued on page 14 0


in
.
■
:
i»5£W
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10’s & 2«’s
CARRERAS LTD.—OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
6745
further figures were “released.” Ever the
optimist, Mr. Lucky went home smiling. “Why,
6564 homes have been completed since the end
of the war,” he said. “That means 2453 in the
last two months. Things must be improving.
It shouldn’t be long before we get ours now.”
Mrs. Lucky looked dubious. “Does it say
how many of them are Army huts?” she asked.
On March 26, when the Government was still
trying to make up its mind on an election date,
Mr. C. Evatt announced that 700 homes would
be ballotted for during the next nine weeks;
as an earnest of this, 100 names were pulled
out of the hat next day. Mr. C. Evatt did not
say how long the 700 would have to wait after
their names were drawn, nor could his Housing
Commission give the Luckys any more news.
April came, and more ballots, but no new
address for Mr. Lucky. He read of the hand-
ing over of the key of the 6000th home (in-
cluding, presumably, huts, tents and humpies),
but it wasn’t his. Then came Mr. McGirr’s
policy speech with a promise of 90,000 homes
within three years. This has bucked up the
Luckys no end. They still have their moments
of despair, but behind it all they know that
somewhere in N. S. Wales, in one of the 100
suburbs and 60 country towns, 1.096 operatives
are working feverishly on a home for them.
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal “Labor” was badly rattled in
the House last week, and for once even
Chifley lost his composure. Harrison’s
charges of hanky-panky in the Prices
Branch ; the beginnings of a debate on the
Goldberg-Keane-Kelly case, ruled un-
debatable by the Speaker, whose ruling
was challenged, and a no-longer-gaggable
discussion on Food-for-Britain brought
obvious signs of perturbation to the
quarter where cocksureness is wont to
prevail. Not for years has “Labor” been
so glad to reach the haven of the week-
end adjournment.
Victorian “Labor” approached the
Assembly meeting, called for yesterday,
with feelings of trepidation, voiced by
Cain in a despairing appeal for unity
against Communists. Members on both
sides are ill, and there is uncertainty
about the attitude of the Speaker—a
Liberal —who has been on the sick list and
the two Independents Gardner and Mc-
Laren, especially since blundering old
Cameron, the P.M.G., blithering at the
State party conference, came out for
opposing all Independents in their consti-
tuencies. Gardner comes from Ivanhoe
and McLaren from Glen Iris, suburbs
largely populated by season ticket-holders
who have been hard hit by the current
frenzy of strikes and have every reason
for despising the bleating inaction of
“Labor” and its facing-both-ways Clarey.
The 520 Middle East “migrants” whom
Calwell didn’t see at Fremantle, although
he made a special trip, arrived in Mel-
bourne on Sunday in the 7000 - ton
Egyptian ship Misr—two letters omitted.
The vessel is reported to have been
bought by the Societe Misa de Naviga-
tion Maritime to transport displaced
persons and refugees to Australia. Press
photographers were banned at Fremantle,
but a “Daily News” man got a few
revealing photos and another heard “the
babel of foreign tongues that rose from
ship and shore,” also the comments of
“an Englishman aboard” :
“Hear that din? That’s the language
you’ll be speaking soon.” And then, in
tones which would have overpowered the
Ring on Cup Day, he gave his summing-up
of ship and trip.
All this in Calvell’s .hearing. Calvell,
“standing directly in the line of fire, got
one of the most outspoken broadcasts
he’s had yet.”
The Misery party reached Calwell’s
Mecca when it was in the throes of a
transport strike, a strike of newspaper
hands which reduced the dailies to
the size of broadsheets, an engineers’
strike which has paralysed industry, a
war between militants and “moderates”
on the A.C.T.U. inter-State executive,
gas and electricity restrictions and a city
brown-out. Pickets were intimidating
bus drivers and their patrons, the bulk
of the population had taken to Shanks’s
pony, and the “Labor” Premier an-
nounced that he couldn’t “see daylight”
in the deepening chaos.
A useful meat-for-Britain plan has
arrived in Westralia, Producers are to
send stock direct to treatment works for
two weeks, during which period stock
sales are to be cancelled. Butchers are
to make slaughtermen . available, local de-
mand to be met from meat unsuitable for
export. It happened almost as soon as
the Liberal-C.P. Government assumed
office. To do the Wises credit, they were
not callous to Britain’s needs, but their
thoughts ran to a money grant.
“Wingella”: There must have been a
“Labor” Housing Department in King
Solomon’s day. Turn to Kings I, chapter
9 ; “And it came to pass, at the end
of twenty years, when Solomon had
built the two houses”
Last month one of N.S.W. “Labor’s”
bookmaker-friends, “Joe” Matthews, was
fined £lOO for having made expensive
additions, “a new brick garage” among
them, to “the old home” at Turramurra,
a fashionable suburb, “without the con-
sent of the Minister,” presumably Mc-
Girr. Matthews is a name to conjure
with in the Peak Hill subdivision of the
very doubtful Ashburnham electorate.
Last week, in a moving speech to the
N.S.W. Police Association, a sergeant,
A. J. Keogh, declared that he had been
summarily transferred from Peak Hill be-
cause he had refused to let “sports” have
an “open go” at a local “meeting.” He
said further:
Certain individuals have waxed fat and
secured power and reputation of a kind
through sacrificing the morals of the com-
munity. The police should give a lead to
decent people who are unorganised against
crime and vice.
Reference of the case to Minister Heffron
brought a denial of the statement attri-
buted to him that the affair “does smell,”
and a bit of buck-passing which could
have been taken as read ; “It is a matter
for Mr. McGirr.” That promiser of all
things to all electors with decisive votes
promised, first, a police inquiry, then an
“independent public inquiry,” time un-
specified. The election date is May 3.
Expounding his “rural policy” at
Inverell, the McGirr promised to
establish a chain of country woollen mills
to process greasy wool and treat sheep-
skins. He blathered that the mills would
employ 100,000 men and women, who
would be trained by overseas skilled
workers, but didn’t say where he was
going to find them in a State where he
boasts he has already provided full em-
ployment. After quoting the huge bene-
fits that would accrue to N.S.W. under
the scheme, he remarked fatuously
“ ‘Labor’s’ plan will help Britain to bal-
ance her Budget.” Two days before Mc-
Girr made his Inverell speech Britain’s
Treasurer, Dr, Dalton, announced that
he was budgeting for a surplus of
£248,000,000. Two days after Inverell,
McGirr released his own Treasury figures,
showing a deficit of £BBl,OOO for nine
months.
Running to a schedule that allows time
enough for full loading even at the re-
duced rate of handling now in vogue at
Australian ports, the liner Orion had to
leave behind in Melbourne 5000 cases of
butter, 13,000 crates of rabbits and 3600
cases of cheese. Time lost in Port Mel-
bourne was 42£ hours, 18£ through rain
and 24 through a slopwork meeting of
watersiders. The wharfies don’t control
the rain yet, but they make good use of
it when it comes. Seamen on the liner
Were not happy at leaving the urgently-
needed food behind, but when it comes to
real comradeship Australian wharfies’
thoughts turn more to colored Indo-
nesians than to their own kith and kin.
During the Food for Britain debate —
permitted at last after repeated gagging
—Mr. Pollard mentioned 300,000 cases
of canned vegetables in Australia “be-
longing to the United Kingdom” and
which Britain had asked to be “disposed
of in Australia at approved prices.”
Britain’s problem is to use her funds
available for food purchase to buy the
goods most needed, which apparently
don’t include canned spuds and carrots,
but if Chifley, as a gesture from the
Australian people, buys the stuff “at
approved prices” and still ships it to
Britain, that will be a real gift, not a
book entry.
Pie hits back at Hanlon:
The Premier’s story is that I am an
ingrate, that the “Labor” Government
made me. Then he tries to make out that
I am a war profiteer. Who were the war
profiteers? If we could have got the
Royal Commission on that tobacco racket
we would have shown them something.
Queensland “Labor” forgot to remember
that N.S.W. “Labor” made District Judge
Kirby available when the timber trans-
actions of ex-Minister D’Alton and others
were challenged in Tasmania what time
D’Alton was Federal “Labor’s” High
Commissioner in N.Z.
A Westralian woman-murderer under
death sentence, which wouldn’t have been
carried out had “Labor” remained in
office, cheated the hangman by knifing
himself in his cell. It was his misfortune
to have committed his crime in West-
ralia, and not in Queensland or N. S.
Wales.
The Fraser Government expects
to regain its war trophy, the barque
Pamir, in a day or two ; and it may be
a long time before Sydney sees her again.
Last year she sailed from Wellington to
Vancouver in 58 days. She was held up
longer than that in Port Jackson by
strikes and their sequels. One of the
strikes was ordered by the Communists
of the Waterside Workers’ Federation;
the other by the “moderates” who found
such a fervent champion in Jimmy Mc-
Girr.
The “Labor” “Standard” and the Com-
munist “Tribune” are on such friendly
terms that the “Tribune” has taken to
quoting the “Standard” as if it were the
Ark of the Covenant. For example:
The “Standard” points out that the
“Labor” party is contesting 76 seats out
of 90, but neither Opposition party is
running enough candidates to form a
“Liberal” or Country-party Government.
Ah, but the same Was true of the Libs
and C.P. in Westralia, and where is the
Westralian “Labor” Government now?
Melbourne and bayside municipalities
are up in arms against the £2,000,000 to
be spent on a 40-mile seawall from Wer-
ribee to Frankston, “to prevent erosion
and improve the beauty of the foreshore,”
being raised by a differential rate, fixed
on a zone basis. They should come out
against the whole business. Erosion can
be combated by other means than by
converting lovely beaches into a desert
of concrete, and the cost of housing is
far too high already without putting an-
other impost on it.
Healy, the one who is Federal boss of
the Watersiders’ Federation, has been
busy blaming wage-payers for the
criminally slow turn-round of ships at
Sydney, alleging that they aren’t using
the labor available to the best advantage.
Presumably they should consult Healy
about it. The truth is that the Federation
won’t permit transfers of men from one
job to another. If a wharfie is paid off
one ship, he must cool his heels for the
rest of that day, though men who are
real workers and not s.p.
and the like would be willing to go to
other ships when finished with one.
Cargoes move towards a port on a 24-
hour day' schedule, but for about half
that period Communists and “moderates”
render the wharves idle.
When A.I.F. Colonel Murray Robson
gave his opening election address in
Vaucluse, Sydney, he got his biggest!
roars of approval when he said he would
do all one man could do as Liberal
M.L.A. for Vaucluse to get food to
Britain and to have any immigrant
trumpeter of industrial sedition deported.
In disagreement with Calwell on the
Communist issue, Dr. Mannix is now at
odds with McGirr, The Archbishop,
in an address to Melbourne tramway-
men, who, urged by their “militant”
leaders to strike, went on working:
If this country is to be prosperous it is
necessary to find overseas markets. What
prospect is there if wages are too high and
hours too few?
McGirr committed his “Government” and
party to the payment of higher wages for
less work; and to the devil with over-
seas markets.
What is A.B.C. coming to? In a
news-of-the-world “session,” broadcast
from its principal national station,
it reported a death and gave details of the
funeral arrangements. A past or present
national figure? V.C. winner? Poet or
scientist? No; a leger bookmaker, one
of 140 licensed to bet at Randwick.
Anyone who has taken the trouble to
comnare the nolicv speeches of McGirr
and Treatt must have been struck by the
deadly materialism of McGirr. Where
Treatt called for toil and production and
for a return to honesty and fair dealing,
McGirr offered more money for less
work. And he had nothing to say about
food for Britain, perhaps because if he
had said anything the “moderates”
Coughlin and Ferry would have objected.
The Chifleys are out with a 10- year
plan for the “development of Australian
external territories.” Long before the 10
years are up they will have gonfe the way
of the Scullins, but meantime a large
committee of Government chaps is to
report to Ward about growing, “on a big
scale,” tea, copra, cocoa, rubber and
so forth, all to “be related to secondary
production in Australia.” Of course,
settlers, traders and planters won’t be
consulted. They're “exploiters.”
Some joker has been trying to get Mc-
Girr to come out strong against the
Booze interest, particularly in relation to
tied houses. In Queensland, Nicklin and
Pie have bfeen so precise in their state-
ments that they will have the Booze in-
terest examined in all its ramifications,
and otherwise attended to, that Booze has
come out flat for “Labor.” In city and
country Bung has torn down Opposition
election posters from his pubs.
During his “policy” speech McGirr
merely made great play with the fact that
in “Labor’s” time the State basic wage
rose from £4 10s. to £5 15s. What McGirr
didn’t say was that that old £4 10s. would
be worth about £7 today. What’s more,
housewives with their share of it could
buy things and get them delivered. Under
“Labor,” necessaries, when procurable,
are scarce and dear, and deliveries are
off, but McGirr has undertaken to be
implacably stern with the unions con-
cerned, as only “Labor” can be.
As in other States, Queensland in-
dustries are short of hands, and Queens-
land itself is short of essential things,
from houses down to socks. Yet nearly
11,0001 people in Queensland were either
receiving or had applied for Common-
wealth unemployment relief at the be-
ginning of March. The “Labor” Govern-
ment, faced with an election on Satur-
day week, is trying to pass the 11,000 off
as “seasonal workers ”
McGirr has had the effrontery to say
that his crowd won’t tolerate any
more blackouts at Bunnerong, Sydney’s
main power-house.
If there are any more the Government
[his Government, if he has one after May
3] will order an immediate investigation
into the administration of the County
Council,
Bunnerong had “Labor” origins, and very
smelly origins at that. These last few
years its troubles have been caused by
(a) refusal of maintenance men to do
shift work and ( b ) lack of coal, suitable
coal especially, through chronic coal-
stoppages ; and McGirr’s mob has never
done a thing about either, though always
ready to pass the buck.


As the Stars that are Starry in the Time of our Darkness,
To the End, to the End, they Remain.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“T.McN.”; “El Verdugo” must be
deeply interested in the lineage of our
celebrities to have made such a search
for the antecedents of the McKell (B.
16/4/’47), and I’m sorry he had bad
luck, I’ve had less difficulty in tracing
the ancestors of another “Labor”
Premier; indeed it was by chance that I
discovered the information in Scott’s Guy
Mannering, tied up with the family-tree
of the Laird of Ellangowan:
Godfrey Bertram, of Ellangowan, suc-
ceeded to a long pedigree and a short
rent-roll, like many lairds of that period.
His list of forefathers ascended so high
that they were lost in the barbarous ages
of Galwegian independence; so that his
genealogical tree, besides the Christian and
crusading names of Godfreys, and Gilberts,
and Dennises, and Rolands, without end,
bore heathen fruit of yet darker ages—
Arths, and Knarths, and Donagilds, and
Hanlons They had made war, raised
rebellions, been defeated, beheaded and
hanged, as .became a family of importance,
for many centuries.
No doubt, had he lived to see it, Scott
would have been suitably impressed to
discover one of them in the person of
the Queensland Premier, Mr. Hanlon,
jousting in the political lists next Satur-
day week.
“Nakhoda”: I, too, have been delving
into genealogy. What surprised me was
not the number of bars sinister which
decorate the family-trees, but the number
of incarcerations, assassinations, judicial
executions, burnings at .the stake and cut-
ting off of heads even in the most respected
families —mostly for political reasons.
One hasn’t to go far back to find the
normal reward of an excessive or even a
mild interest in party politics was a
messy end on the scaffold. Apparently
there was no alternative in the case of
the unfortunate aristocracy of bygone
times, and even those who sat as care-
fully on the fence as some Australian
politicians do didn’t escape at least a life
sentence in a castle dungeon. And
Shelley’s progenitors were no exception.
For his part in an endeavor to set up
Richard 11, Sir Thomas Shelley was sent
to the scaffold and another Shelley pro-
vided a public display of the same kind
for conspiracy against Queen Elizabeth.
In those days the loser went to the
scaffold as a matter of course. Today
he gets a cushy job with the Department
of Information, the C.S.I.R. or the Com-
monwealth Bank Board or is given Am-
bassadorial status.
« * # *
“Uco”; An interesting sidelight on the
shortage of textbooks is revealed in the
annual report of Sydney Municipal
Library. Books are issued gratis, but
there is a “fine” of one penny a day for
any books kept out more than 14 days.
In 1926 fines collected totalled £650; last
year the pennies mounted to £2352. The
number of borrowers was the same in
each case, 27,800. The librarian considers
that the increase is due mainly to the
demand for textbooks in short supply.
His report observes: — . -
Once having obtained a copy of the re-
quired book, the modern borrower selfishly
retains it and stifles his social conscience
by willingly paying a library “fine” when
he eventually returns the book.
Social conscience is apparently not only
stifled but buried and unmourned in the
case of book thieves, who got away with
1901 books since the previous stocktak-
ing. Textbooks were again chiefly in-
volved, the sections that suffered most
being Linguistics, Navigation, Nursing,
Radio, Aviation, Auto. Engineering,
Domestic Science, Building Construction,
Drawing, Photography and Fiction.
* * ♦ *
“Wish-Wash”; Son, a new Boy Scout,
returned from his first Easter camp look-
ing as if he urgently needed a good scrub.
He explained how difficult it was to re-
move dirt in cold water, and said that
was why his towel was completely coated
with grime. He added, however, that he
really was clean when his turn came to
do the washing-up for the patrol. Who-
ever was assigned to this duty had a
good sluice in hot soapy water before
tackling the dishes —in the same water!
“Niloc”: “Hep-2-3-4” (B. 16/4/’47)
may have been wrong in classing Minnie,
the signal pigeon who disappeared, as
a deserter. Another bird, long a.w.L,
recently turned up in Forst, Germany,
with its message cylinder containing a
"Y'r fowl-run's goiter be thirty feet from y'r dwelling !”
three-year-old note from a Fritz infantry
battalion:
We are cut off in Southern Italy. No
hope is left for breaking through.
Being a pigeon, he could not be expected
to know the Army axiom of “Better never
than late,” and may have just taken his
time. But supposing Minnie and Fritz,
both a little off their course, met some-
where, and Minnie, learning from the
other’s coos the nature of the message
he was carrying, decided to martyr her-
self and prevent him getting through at
all costs. This idea would explain the
long absences of both birds, and is sup-
ported by any Hollywood spy picture I
have ever seen.
* * * *
“Ben Backslider”: That strange literary
product of the emotional evangelism of
the late nineties the religious tract cer-
tainly vied in sensationalism with the
Deadwood Dick and Yellow Back. Per-
mit a retired distributer, known to the
Faithful as a Tract Bearer, to add his
testimony to that of “Pontius Penwiper”
(B. 26/3/’47). Part of the solemn Sun-
day routine of my righteous youth was
the delivery of these melodramatic
pamphlets to the homes of the heathen in
a once-thriving Victorian mining town. I
well remember with what fear and
trembling I approached the abode of
one particularly hardened sinner, who,
when proffered the evangelical script,
always exchanged a brochure by Thomas
Paine or some other freethinking author.
The exchanges went on for a long time.
Surveying my subsequent career I’m in-
clined to think he won,
* * * ♦
“0.R.”; Every time I hear mention of
a Task Force it takes me back to Brigh-
ton, Sussex, where a School helped
aircrew to fill months of waiting. Here
a handful of bored Navy types gave in-
struction in ship recognition, naval eti-
quette and the meaning of the doodads
slung about the naval figure. One sar-
donic individual gave us a long lecture
about the American Navy Task Force,
which he hailed as the greatest Yank in-
novation of the war. He gave us ex-
amples of typical task forces, and went
into details about different jobs they had
done. It was all said in a most unusual
spirit of enthusiasm for a rival service,
but I shall always remember the conclud-
ing words of his lecture. “Of course,” he
confided, “the British Navy has had the
same thing for nearly 400 years. It’s
almost exactly the same thing, but there
is one important difference. We just call
it a ‘Force.’ ”
* * * *
“Tarcoola”: Shades of Donald Dinnie!
At Midland Junction (W.A.), where there
is more than a sprinkling of Slavs, the
Thistle Society held a Highland sports
gathering at Easter. To the skirl of bag-
pipes a gentleman with the grand old
Scottish name of K. Mateljan won the
shot putting, with another Scot named
J. Barbarich in third place. The hammer
throw was won by a bloke with the
Gaelic monicker of Rakich, with Matel-
jan third. The traditional Scottish event,
tossing the caber, was won by Mateljan,
after which the victors retired to partake
of a repast of haggis. Oh where and oh
where have our Hielan’ laddies gone!
» * * *
“Penelope’s Mate”: A Jap civilian
laborer at Haisho, Hainan Island, had a
talent for drawing, and made shrewd use
of it. We first saw him digging ditches
near the aerodrome, and at “ yasmae ” he
would settle down with drawing-board,
paper and colored inks, and make excel-
lent sketches of his mates, the Chinese
coolies and the general landscape. The
“warrior gods” of Nippon eventually
picked him up* and later on we found him
in luxurious and permanent residence at
the air force barracks doing large porno-
graphic studies for Nippon’s supermen.
One of our fellows wanted one of the
masterpieces, but the price was 20
yen. Previously for 50 sen I had
bought a postcard sketch of workmen
swarming over the skeleton of an air-
craft hangar, but I lived to regret pos-
session of the early Jap “Turner.” Dur-
ing a camp search it was found in my
kit. After five hours of interrogation with
accompanying treatment I cleared my-
self of espionage but lost the work of
art. Incidentally a Jap overseer at Hokari
rail siding did some crayon drawings of
our work parties, faithfully depicting
emaciated, near-naked Australians slaving
under the sword-sticks of brutal guards.
If the drawings still exist they would be
damning evidence before a war crimes
tribunal,
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I don’t like motor
cycles; they seem to become involved
in accidents so easily. But I borrowed
the mate’s beezer the other day ancj, at
the risk of being laughed off the road,
kept within the- speed limit and tried to
obey the traffic regulations. Returning
home late that night I passed another
cyclist minus head and tail lights. He
seemed grateful when I offered to
“shadow” him home, and kept close be-
hind me until we reached a straight stretch
of road, when he drew alongside. “Have
you got a speedo?” he yelled. I had.
“Well,” he suggested, “How about trying
me out along here to see what speed I
can get out of my bus?” He was quite
hurt when I refused.
* * * *
“Mrs. P.”: The assistant of an Adelaide
bookshop regretted he hadn’t a copy of
the book I wanted, but, seeing the dis-
appointment of my youngster, he called
up the chief. Magic Pudding ? He’d never
heard of it. When I murmured “Norman
Lindsay” he gave me a look of deep
suspicion and snapped; “Certainly not.”
Perhaps he has a copy of the Red Page
list of banned authors or something.
« « * «
“Macnell”: Much was made of the
liner Orion’s recent re-establishment of
peace-time sea connections with the U.K.
but nothing of a small cheese-shaped
radar reflector on her mast which repre-
sents a revolutionary concept of mer-
chant marine navigation. Orion is one of
the first merchant ships to be fitted with
this Type 268, developed and used by
the Navy with conspicuous success in
detecting enemy surface vessels. She can
proceed on the darkest night or in the
thickest pea-souper with the same navi-
gational accuracy as by day. Icebergs in
mid-ocean show on her radar screens 15
miles away. The 268’s radar pulses are
so sensitive they can plot a rain squall
and “ping” on an approaching storm
centre. Coming up-channel small buoys
and beacons return their electro-mag-
netic echoes as ranges and bearings and
the ship’s course is plotted mathematically
exact.
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: Bureaucracy in action?
Because the Federal Government would
not waive a regulation banning the export
of new cotton goods, Tasmanian Red
Cross people have been busy putting
through the wash 1200 pairs of new sur-
plus-war-stock cotton pyjamas,
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A couple of blokes dressed
like workmen with hammers stuck in
their belts strolled along Collins-street
carrying a 20ft. plank on which was
inscribed in large letters the information
that “Nine Radio Stars” would perform
at the Town Hall in an exclusive pro-
gramme in aid of “Food for Britain.”
Every hundred yards or so they put the
plank down and propped it against the
kerb, rolled cigarettes and slowly smoked
them. Then they picked up the board
and went on for another hundred yards
and pulled out their makings again.
Having thoroughly done Collins-street,
they turned up Swanston-street and were
last seen disappearing up Bourke-street.
Police who saw them are still wondering
whether they were workmen engaged on
their lawful avocation of taking a sign-
board to the place where it had to be
nailed up or sandwich men breaking one
of the city’s most sacred regulations.
* * * *
“Plop”: Rarely have I listened to more
glorious hiccups. Surprisingly rich, well-
voiced peals, they could be clearly
heard over the grinding of the
tram. In the moments of
silence when the vehicle
halted, we received the full
benefit of the lass’s “holes,”
and those with newspapers
rattled them, attempting kindly
muffling. We welled will) sym-
pathy, and old ladies called the
grinning gent, who sat oppo-
site the stricken one “a brute.”
The young woman herself
hurled a scathing glance on
him, aud turned to look out
the window, her diaphragm
still rating 30 to the minute.
Quick as a flash the monster
moved forward, pulled a terrible face at
her and bellowed “800-err.” When the
newspapers had been picked up off the
floor, and the driver made sure his main-
fuse had not blown, we continued —the
young woman, not a hie left in her, giving
her savior a grateful smile.
* * * »
“Cathay”; Ninny, affectionately known
up and down the China Coast as a chief
engineer with one of the big companies,
was large and rotund, and exuded
good fellowship. During the Singapore
debacle we heard that his ship had “got
it,” but that most of the men had
reached Sumatra. A month or two
later I met him in the lounge of the
Grand Oriental in Colombo. Describing
his journey across Sumatra he said, in a
voice of disgust, “I’d been 24 years at
sea and never crossed the Line, and then
I cross it in a blasted truck! And by
hokey, I felt the bump.”
* * t * *
“Ceg”: If the rotting prawns at La
Perouse are typical of public grounds
around Sydney it would be an excellent
idea to introduce some of those hawks
which did such good scavenging work
around the military camps in Egypt. The
big A.I.F. camp at Heliopolis, near
Cairo, was well supplied with these birds,
and scraps of food would hardly touch
the ground before a hawk would pounce
on them. Soldiers, carrying food from
the cookhouse to mess huts, needed to
keep a wary eye, and I once had a piece
of meat neatly picked from a plate I was
carrying. I venture to say that the aroma
of rotting prawns would soon depart
from La Perouse if a few of those birds
were about.
* * * *
“Emjai”: Is the straight razor steadily
vanishing into the limbo of forgotten
friends? My seven and sixpenny Bengal
has shaved me 15,000 times, and al-
though now a stumpy it is as reliable as
ever. But the new generation of safety
addicts shy at the cutthroat. Travelling
down from Townsville in ’43 in the Sun-
shine Express, with oscillation aplenty, I
essayed a shave at the washbowl. A
Yank officer yelled to his cobbers “Say,
come and watch the guy cut his throat
with a straight razor.” From an amazed
audience emerged the remark “Gee! And
I reckoned they only used those things
in nigger fights.”
OUR SIR ORACLE.
“The actual handling’ of foreign affairs for Aus-
tralia is virtually the private preserve of Doctor
Evatt. Whatever he says or thinks at any given
moment is Australia’s foreign policy.” —“Saturday
Evening Post” (March 8).
The Lord High Chancellor is styled the keeper
In Britain of the conscience of the King,
Into which task he claims an insight deeper,
It’s held, than anybody else could bring.
And Doc., your job, though rated somewhat
cheaper,
Is quite an indistinguishable thing
From his. You fix what shall or shall not be
Your native country’s foreign policy.
L’etat, e’est moi, some frank and forthright
Louis
Of France was once accustomed to declare,
And though it sounds a bit of boastful hooey
It’s an opinion you seem to share
And one that’s far from being reckoned screwy
Not only here but almost anywhere
Abroad, from shore to shore and sea to sea,
London and Washington to Gay Paree.
You’re the sole arbiter on what relations
We should maintain, or choose wherefrom to
swerve,
With quite a lot of near and distant nations.
This field is recognised your close preserve,
Fenced off from Parliamentary disputations.
Even your colleagues would require more
nerve
Than they possess, it seems, if they should dare
To an act of trespass there.
They delegate, avoiding fuss and friction,
To your decision all such points as those.
They only wait to learn what's your conviction
To back it up—whichever way it goes—
Quoting perhaps a line from Omar’s diction;
“He knows about it all —He knows —HE
knows.”
Tomorrow they’ll endorse, it’s safe to say,
Whatever view you may announce today.
But, Doctor, isn’t it a bit surprising
When Com-led wharfies, sailormen and such
Work at aggressively antagonising
Our trusty friends and staunch allies the
Dutch,
With all your genius for supervising
Foreign affairs, you never show a touch
Of shame or pique but, like your own P.M.,
Obediently knuckle down to them?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Claygate”; During Sydney Cup week
0I ? e /h e stores dressed out a window
with shirts and a photograph of Bern-
borough. I’m still wondering whether
it was naivete or heavy sarcasm 'that
brought the outburst from one window-
shopper. “Great Scott!” he exploded,
“They’ve commercialised Christmas,
they’ve commercialised Mothers’ Day
and now they’re commercialising racing.”
* * * *
“Jasby”; A popular radio hit of a few
years ago presents a peculiar example of
literary censorship. This is the cliche-
filled mixture of warbled sentiment and
banal recitative, “Bluebird of Happiness.”
As I recall it the original version insisted
that somewhere or other the Bluebird
was waiting for everyone from the psalm-
chanting evangelist to the s.p. bookie, and
the catalogue of deserving and not-so-
deserving cases wound up with “the
woman on the street.” This morning I
heard tear-jerker John Charles Thomas
giving the piece an airing on the radio.
The street-walker has disappeared—she
apparently no longer rates benefit of
Bluebird—and her place has been taken
by “the sailor in the Fleet.” I don’t
know whether there is any significance
in the change. Still, sailors don’t care.
* * * * •
“Bo”: The morals of book-lovers and
talkie-addicts are shielded from the
Brutal Facts of Life with more*or less a
fanfare of trumpets by everyone from
delicate-minded cops to Customs nabobs,
but who knows that Australian admirers
of the cacophonous outpourings of Tin
Pan Alley are equally shielded from the
withering blasts of Impurity? And not
only recorded music but sheet music too.
One song sent out here has been banned
"I Wonder what Dad's going to be when he grows up ?”
completely. The words? They could
be read to a Band of Hope meeting or
your mittened .Aunt Agapanthus, and
they would receive no whit of dis-
approval, being of that gentle sentimental
drivel which is the stock-in-trade of the
tripe-dispensers. It is the title, dear, the
title! It’s called “The House of Blue
Lights,” and the edifice thus illuminated
here apparently means something vastly
different from what it does in the
U.S., where the ears of listeners to hun-
dreds of radio stations are bashed nightly
by crooners giving the “woiks” to this
latest of the “hit” tunes.
“Weff”: Calculation of the date of
Easter? Bulletin Service Department
(9/4/’46) stated “If the full moon falls
on a Sunday, Easter Sunday is the
Sunday after.” As the full moon fell
this year on Easter Sunday it would
appear that Service Department was
nodding. Actually it was right, but the
moon referred to is not the real moon
of the heavens, but a hypothetical moon
on whose “full” the date of Easter de-
pends, and the lunations of this “Cal-
endar” moon consists of 29 and 30 days
alternately, with certain necessary modi-
fications to make the date of its “full”
agree as nearly as possible with that of
the real moon. The day of the “full”
of the hypothetical moon depends upon
certain tables whose essential points are
given in the early pages of the Church
of England Book of Common Prayer.
* * * *
“Ess”: Disposals must have wondered
how they were going to get rid of their
huge stocks of Army dixies, but a couple
of firms in Sydney have bought a large
quantity, and by attaching a pair of axles
and four wheels and painting the lot are
retailing a child’s toy at 2s. lid.—and
they are selling.
* * * •
“Plum”: Competition in the car market
gets tougher every day. My neighbor,
carhunting for months, mentioned the
fact to the barber while having a haircut.
The barber was co-operative and told
him of a woman in the next street with
a car for sale. My friend burned-up the
pavement in a rush home to collect his
wad, then broke records in a dash to the
address given. The woman was sympa-
thetic. “What bad luck!” she said.
“I sold- it five minutes ago to a
man who heard about it at the barber’s
shop round the corner. It’s funny how
these things get around, isn’t it?”
* * * *
“Milo”: My dentist prides himself on
having every modern appliance for the
“painless” removal of teeth. The other
day a wee lass was taken there to have
a very loose baby tooth extracted. She
would not look at any of his modern
instruments. To his amazement she in-
sisted, with a shrill emphasis, that would
not be denied, on his taking the tooth
out “Grandma’s way,” that is, with a
piece of thread. At first the dentist re-
fused to listen to the proposal but, as the
kiddie was firm in her decision, he at
length gave in.
* * * *
“Minto”; Folk who take up residence
at a Clayfield (Brisbane), guesthouse can’t
say they haven’t been warned. As he
walks over the threshold the incoming
guest is welcomed by a large notice:
“East, west,‘home’s best.”
* * * #
“Lord Luvus”: Professor Wood, of
Melbourne University, in conjunction
with the A.C.T.U., wants a school for
trade-union secretaries. It is presumed
that the course would be comprehensive
and would include classes in the tech-
nique of go-slow strikes, shipping hold-
ups, irritation tactics, methods of
dealing with scabs and the necessary steps
to be taken by a trade-union official who
aspires to be a Governor-General. Travel-
ling scholarships to Moscow will no
doubt be granted to the best pupils,
degrees will be awarded and in future
no barefooted Billy Hughes will have a
chance as a shearers’ organiser unless he
can write B.U. after his name. The new
Chair will doubtless be filled by a dreary
professor who has never been in a strike,
organised a hold-up or met a worker,
unless it was a plumber repairing the taps
in his bathroom, but who has read all
the books ever written on the problems
of the worker, from Mafx and Lenin to
Webb and Laski.
* * * *
“Cressy”; Party lines in the country
district were humming with the news.
Mrs. Repp, traveller for a city corset firm,
was making calls to take measurements
and deposits. “Did you say corsets ?”
said Mrs. Doc when ’phoned by a friend.
"We don't teach THAT kind of drawing at this school , Miss Glammer!"
“How I need them! Send her along.”
Mrs. Repp arrived at lunch-time and was
invited to join in, Mrs. Doc afterwards
parading in scanty garments. After a
little expert patting and smoothing and
measuring by Mrs. Repp she dressed and
paid over the deposit. The corsets not
arriving as promised, the firm was con-
tacted. No traveller had been sent out
by them, and they didn’t know they had
Mrs. Repp on the staff until the police
arrested her ... or, rather, him !
* * * *
“Cathay”: Reading lately ajjout the
thousands of pounds lost by hotels through
souvenir-hunters recalls to mind my first,
and last, attempt at surreptitious “collect-
ing.” Nineteen at the time, I was in Cal-
cutta, and the latest craze of collecting
ash-trays was making heavy inroads into
hotel stocks. One night, after a few
snifters, the dainty little damascene ash-
trays beguiled me. Unobtrusively one
found its way into my pocket. A few
more drinks and I conceived* the idea of
matching ash-trays for my desk —a
second one went the way of the first.
Towards 1 a.m., glowing with satisfaction
at my neophyte success, I proceeded to
leave, only to be stopped at the door by
the manager, who asked very politely for
the ash-tray. I handed one over and,
grinning sheepishly, said “0.K., old man,
you win this time.” I turned away only
to hear that voice of doom say “And
now, how about the other?” Dejectedly
I handed it over. Any ash-trays I have
since possessed have been bought on the
legal market.
* * * *
“Eureka”: My faith in padlocks was
badly shattered the other day when a
13-year-old schoolboy demonstrated how
easy it was to open these locks. He had
gone to school without the key of his
school desk, but one of his mates told
him not to worry about such a trifle be-
cause he could open the lock. He did so
in a few seconds with a bent bobby-pin.
I’ve a number of padlocks, cost 3s. 6d. to
12s. 6d., but every one is easily opened
with a bent bobby-pin.
• * * ♦
“Conda”: An unexpected development
of Admiral Byrd’s Antarctic expedition
was in the radar field. Screens showed
a medley of echoes, which operators
naturally identified as the usual “ground
wave” and noise, turned their amplitude
down, and disregarded them. One inquisi-
tive operator, however, developed his in-
vestigation, and found the increased
echoes to be reflections not from waves
but from scores of icefloes. So now if
the next scrap ranges sufficiently north or
south radar operators will know better
than to tune down, and so possibly miss
an important target.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Minto”: Syndicated lectures (B.
2/4/’47)? In pre-war days with a retail
store, my job included the training of
future executives. On return from active
service I found a home-fronter in my
shoes and I had to undergo a refresher
course under his instruction. Handing
me a typewritten screed he urged me to
study it closely and do my best to re-
member it. I glanced at the first para-
graph and offered to repeat the whole
thing back ta him there and then. I’d
written the lecture myself six years before.
* * * *
“Peter”; Occupation stamps (B.
15/l/’47)? The “B.C.O.F.—|apan--
1946” overprint was only on sale for a
couple of days, in mid-October —and only
in the Id. and 3d, values. Its rapid with-
drawal may have been caused by the
authorities waking up to the fact that
they would not impede the blackmarket.
Occupation stamps are to be issued again,
in seven values —55., 25., Is., 6d., 3d., Id.
and |d. —but not until May 8, 1947. Two
days before that, the 8.C.0.F. will follow
the example of its Allies, and issue special
occupation currency, which will be sole
means of purchasing goods in canteens,’
etc., and stamps in post offices. As- no
yen, even if legally obtained, will be con-
verted into occupation scrip, black-
marketeers will not be able to transmit
their ill-gotten gains to their homes in the
form of stamps.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: Le Grand Seigneur,
as he styled himself, was a New Guinea
District Officer of the old school. The
laws he administered were his own, not
found in any of the recognised codes, but
quaintly suited to the people, time and
place. No white man ever lodged an
appeal against any of his unorthodox
verdicts. As a host he lived up to his
name, but visitors whether on pleasure
or business were expected to remain as
his guests for at least a week. One busy
planter tried to escape after 24 hours.
“You can’t,” said the D.O, “I antici-
pated your move and had your boat’s
crew arrested an hour ago. They will
be released on parole—yours, to be bind-
ing for seven days,”
* * * ♦
“Col M.”: Americans looked up at
their light-bulbs and thought great things
about Edison on February 11, the cen-
tenary of his birth. Intimates cele-
brated it by breaking their way into his
roller-top desk, seeking “news of
momentous discoveries” which spiritual-
ists, supposedly in contact with the in-
ventor since his death, had claimed were
hidden in his fountain pens. Handled
by Edison, the pens no doubt 'did contain
a host of inventions, but the eager
searchers after golden eggs found only
ink. “Izyestia” marked the occasion by
declaring that Edison had really kid-
napped his electric-light brain-child from
a Russian scientist; but then Russians
invented everything except , the atom
bomb.
* * * ♦
, “Sarge”: With a thousand or so others
I landed in Singapore 14/9/’45, and we
were welcomed at Changi by the boys of
the Eighth, who made us comfortable and
fed us. After a couple of days our
cooks took over the kitchens and for
the first time I heard p.-0.-w. whinge.
After feeding themselves “well” since the
Nip collapse, they seemed quite peeved
when our cooks’ first offering turned out
to be a breakfast of rice.
* * * *
“McFad”; “Pitt St.’s” inopportune
tramcar ad. (B. 5/4/’47) recalls my war-
time friend Mac Nozzle. Mac, too old
for combatant service, was accepted as a
fire-auxiliary, taking his turn on night
duty. A meek, inoffensive little chap, it
shocked us to learn of his expulsion for
riotous and unseemly conduct. Mac’s
first week on night call had been a suc-
cession of false alarms, or incipient out-
breaks in the early morning hours,
mostly quenched before the brigade’s
arrival. Sleepless and red-eyed, Mac
turned out for his final call at 2 a.m., and
as the station doors swung open the
engine’s headlights beamed dazzlingly on
a hoarding opposite, upon which a new
poster had been erected but a few hours
before. With a finger pointed accusingly
at him, it enjoined Mac and the world in
general to “Stop Getting Up Nights.” It
was then he cracked, pushing the engine
over, biting through the hose in three
places, and squirting a chemical ex-
tinguisher in the face of the superinten-
dent before being overpowered.
A SENSITIVE OFFICIAL.
“Belittling references to Tasmania as ‘The Speck
were deprecated by Agent-General James in a speech
at Launceston.”
Consider, chaps, albeit no offence is
Intended, little japes and quips like these.
May jar upon refined intelligences
And delicate susceptibilities.
The term applied to them is claimed to rile
The sturdy patriots of the Apple Isle.
No need exists to ask Victorians pardon
For any sting that may be lurking in
The designation of “The Cabbage Garden”;
The chances are ’twould merely raise a grin,
An inference that their feelings might be hurt
By such a tab, however malapert.
You wouldn’t set a South Australian fuming
By playful hints of how his forebears were
Addicted on occasions to consuming
The crow among their culinary fare,
Or chaffing him on how he came to get
The label that he hasn’t outlived yet.
It doesn’t get the goat or raise the dander
Of anyone in our far western land
Who’s dub’bed a Groper or a Groperlander
(A word suggesting wastes of scrub and sand).
He’s too much sense and humor to protest
Against an antiquated, outworn jest.
But Tassie finds her latest appellation,
To quote S’Claude, a title to resent.
He views therein a subtle intimation
Of supercilious disparagement.
It starts an ache in his official neck
To hear his land referred to as “The Speck.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


X
%
m
to
/ J
m&
The oldest established 24
hours (human paced)
cycling record is that of
M. Cordang, who covered
991 kilometres 451 metres
at London in 1897.
Australia's Hubert Opperman holds
the present 24 hours (unpaced)
record of 489 miles 596 yards, estab-
lished at Sydney in 1940.
Records past or present cannot beat
the record of the quality of Champion
tobacco amongst keen sporting
smokers. Champion—the Champion
Smoke.
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the Pipe .
Mir
mm
m
w>
wa
mm
ANY COUNTRY HOME CAN
HAVE A CITY KITCHEN
•••
IN
r
The AGA Cooker brings all the comforts and conven-
iences of city cooking to country homes. Modern
appearance; sparkling "easy-clean 1 ' baked enamel
finish; special insulation—keeps kitchens cool—delicious
cooking by scientific stored heat in roomy ovens and
the convenience of having the AGA operating con-
tinuously at no extra cost.
Economical, too! Country owners have proved that fuel
costs are (ess than cost of wood—even when drawn
from their own properties. Every AGA is British made
and carries a double guarantee.
1, It is guaranteed not to burn more than an amazingly
small specified quantity of fuel per annum.
2. It Is guaranteed against faulty material or workman-
ship for ten (10) years.
If unable to see the AGA in operation in our showroom
write for catalogue—showing the complete range of
models.
AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 {lnc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney.
432 Bourke St.. Melbourne
Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert
Sts., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents; A. G
Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth,
MM
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TT^tßxzlZeivn*
The limitations on Subscriptions to Ihb
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are; —
12 months £l4 0
6 12 6
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —•
12 months .. .. .. IB 0
6 .. .. .. « 0
8 .. * 0
By airmail to members of the forces In the
Islands—-3 mouths .. .. £1 8 8
THE SERVICE MAN
Rudkin and the Atom Bomb.
“Ek Dum”: Recent debates in the
House were sufficient to raise uneasiness
in the public mind about the safety of
scientific secrets on which the security of
this t country and of the whole British
Commonwealth might depend.
The case of Arthur William Rudkin,
research chemist in the C.S.I.R., was
mentioned last week by Mr. Abbott. Mr.
Dedman replied that Rudkin’s appoint-
ment had been recommended by the
C.S.I.R. executive, and that the Minister
could not believe that Rudkin’s record
was as alleged by the member for New
England.
Mr. Dedman obviously finds it easy to
disbelieve what he wishes to disbelieve. It
was here related (B. 9/4/’47) how Rud-
kin, an immigrant chemist, who edited
the Communist official organ in Wes-
ralia, was convicted in 1940 of white-
anting the A.R.P. organisation in Perth
at a moment of dire national peril;
how the proof was obtained at the head-
quarters of the Communist party in
Perth ; how Rudkin was sentenced and
recommended for internment for the re-
mainder of the war; how leading
Communists rose and reverently gave him
the clenched-fist salute after he left
the dock under sentence and how the
Communist party was suppressed through-
out the Commonwealth a day or so after
"She says all she Wants for the bridge party is an of-the-face hat!”
his trial and that of his fellow-con-
spirators.
That a man with such a record should
be employed as a research chemist by
the country at whose instance he was
convicted, in a position in which war
secrets might be obtained and from
which other branches of the C.S.I.R.
might be red-anted, would, in the light
of the Canadian spy-plot disclosures, be
unbelievable in any other country but
Australia, even if Comrade Rudkin had
disavowed his principles. But he has not
disavowed his principles. He still crawls
to Russia, the only country from which
civilisation is today in danger.
He is, inter'alia, the writer of the Mel-
bourne letter in a publication called
“Focus.” This paper boasts as its editor-
in-chief a Mr. Mendelsohn, “a Melbourne
man of science,” and has in Hobart a
Hungarian who is lecturer in organic
chemistry; a Perth representative named
Rosendorff; a New York agent named
Nemkov and a Tokyo correspondent
named Roskolenko.
The “British Jackal”
Comrade Rudkin, apart from his efforts
to picture the life of Melbourne, devotes
himself to the study of the atomic bomb
and the rocket. In September last he
wrote:
The only industrial countries one can
safely say are not capable of producing the
atomic bomb are Britain and Canada,
which have introduced so much restrictive
legislation to preserve the secret they
haven’t got (Truman accepted all the help
he could get from British Empire scientists
but was very careful not to let them into
any of the' engineering secrets) that they
have brought atomic research practically
to a standstill in their own territories. This
amazing metamorphosis of the British lion
into a sneaking jackal, humbly accepting
whatever scraps the lions of Wall-street
“ ke *°. leave it > mus l ha y e mad ? a pro-
round impression oh British scientists, who,
unlike British politicians, retain some of
the British pride that won the Battle of
Britain and who would prefer to do their
°,Y n huntin g ••• • If America and Britain
allow swashbucklers like Bevin and Byrnes
to remain in positions of authority, scien-
tic research in those countries will inevitably
be shackled until British-speaking countries
lo ? e the s™ ll u lead the y have , toda y i n
science and technology; and when their
carefully-planned atomic war does break
forth, other countries will probably be
able t 0 bit back s 0 bard that the new
m ltler u and Mussolini* have P ull ia
their horns before they have time to smash
up civilisation beyond hope of reconstruc-
lion,
For “Brass Hats”
Again Comrade Rudkin wrote:
Naturally politicians as dumb as Truman
and Bevin are dumb enough to try to use
compulsion on scientists, and in an attempt
to terrorise them have imposed heavy gaol
sentences on two leading physicists, Dr.
Nunn May and Dr. Charles Boyer, for
carrying out perfectly normal scientific
activity of discussing their work with scien-
tlsts of a nation to which Mr. Churchill,
when Prime Minister, pledged all possible
scientific and technical. assistance [Dr.
Boyer’s case is still undecided] Scien-
tists ? re get , tin B tired of churning out dis-
covenes to be used by brass-hats, crooked
politicians and mud-brained profiteers for
their anti-sotial ends....
Omitting the fact that Dr. Nunn May,
so far from being convicted of discussing
scientific facts in a normal way with
friendly scientists, was actually convicted
of selling secrets which he had sworn an
oath to hold inviolate to the military in-
telligence officers of a foreign Power, to
the danger of millions of his fellow-
countrymen, the writer’s loyalty to
Russia and malice against the leaders of
the British Commonwealth and the United
States are evident in every word. It merely
needs an article on the rocket-bomb
convicted “fifth columnist” (Crown
counsel’s expression) to make his attitude
clear. The article is headed “Rocket
Bombs v. Science.”
Here Rudkin says “the rocket-bomb
testing scheme in Central Australia will
undoubtedly lead to extravagant secrecy
regulations and witch-hunts among
scientists of the type which are vitiating
scientific research in the U.S. and Great
Britain”:
The famous Liberal intellectual Archie
Cameron has already set off on a pre-
liminary canter with a witch-hunt directed
against C.S.I.R. executive member Don
Mountjoy, which, if successful, will no
doubt be extended to cover all C.S.I.R.
employees suspected of humanitarian lean-
ings.
There is a lot more of the stuff. It
all suggests a curious laxity in the


/
gdf
FIRST CHOICE
OF WORLD TRAVELLERS AND
LEADING AIRLINES
Now cruising between capitals of the world, swift Lockheed
Constellations are the standard-bearers, the first choice of
leading airlines everywhere. The great airlines which have
selected the Constellation include:
AER LINGUS • AIR FRANCE • AMERICAN
OVERSEAS AILINES • BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS
CORP. • EASTERN AIR LINES • KLM ROYAL
DUTCH AIRLINES • KNILM ROYAL NETHERLANDS
INDIES’ AIRWAYS • L.A.V. (LINEA AEROPOSTAL
VENEZOLANA) • PANAIR DO BRAZIL • PAN
AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS • QANTAS EMPIRE
AIRWAYS LTD. • TRANS WORLD AIRLINE
The Constellation is the most modern air transport in global
service todav queen of the world’s airlanes, acknowledged
world leader.
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, Burbank, Calfornia, U.S.A.
LOCKHEED
WORLD LEADER
Sole Australian Agents: RHEEM AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Aircraft, Sparc Parts, Accessories. Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
No. 8
THERE ARE NO BETTER TYRES THAN
Olympic
Produced
wyMBMHffWPHw
Australia's most
modern tyre
factory for
every
Australian
transport
purpose
A PRODUCT OF
THC OLYMPIC TYHt
nUBBM CO. LTO.
Save for
Security.
Invest in
the Third
Security
Loan.
regulations governing selection of candi-
dates for posts in the C.S.I.R.
Even apart from the question of re-
turned-soldier preference, there should
be no room for a man with such a record,
especially one engaged in such propa-
ganda, in any public service in the Com-
monwealth.
Thornton and His Pals.
Employing the usual tactics when Com-
munists or their friends or stooges are in
danger, Mr. “Balance-sheet ’ Thornton,
who boasted in a war-time pamphlet that
“we made strikes our business,” has been
able to secure wide publicity for his
meditation that too great reliance has
been placed on the strike weapon.
Attention was first called to Mr. Thorn-
ton, previously obscure, with the publica-
tion of his official the “Iron-
wofker.” The first issue came out in
November, 1939, and the first words re-
marked on the necessity for opposing
National Security Regulations and a
National Register. There followed an an-
nouncement that because of “the complete
change in the scene which has taken place
in Poland since the outbreak of war,
owing to the cowardly flight of the brass-
hats and politicians who were supposed to
be Poland’s leaders,” the Committee of
the Ironworkers’ Association had come
to the following conclusion: —
That th'is committee, after considering
every aspect of the present war situation,
declares that it is in the interests of the
working class of the world that the present
war should cease.
It declared that Britain should take the
initiative of offering peace — i.e., surrender
—to the enemy, who was then working
hand in glove with Russia, adding:
British Conservative politicians say there
can be no peace with Hitler because no-
body can believe Hitler’s word. If it came
to that nobody could believe Chamber-
lain’s word. Remember how he promised
not to introduce conscription., Neither
can the word of the Prime Minister of
France be accepted in view of the 64-hour
week and the prohibition of the Com-
munist party.
When B.H.P. proposed to establish a
shipbuilding industry at Whyalla (S.A.),
(as it did) at a time when U-boats were
sinking ships by the hundred and drown-
ing thousands of workers, Thornton op-
posed it tooth and nail. In March, 1940,
on the verge of the German drive into
France, Thornton demanded the with-
drawal of the A.I.F. from overseas on the
ground that it was to be used to attack
Russia, and that the A.I.F. and any-
body else involved would be destroyed
by “the mighty force of the Red Army
using its strength to the
fullest possible extent.”
With the invasion of France and Bel-
gium and the rape of Norway, Holland,
Luxembourg and Denmark, Thorn-
ton came out with a new spate of pro-
German resolutions—“that we declare
that the Australian people have nothing
to gain from the continuance of the war.
He was still shouting this treacherous
propaganda in June, 1941, when Ger-
many turned on its Russian partner.
Thereupon the war became the only thing
on the Thornton horizon. He gave a
conference a “ringing slogan”; “Whoever
is for the Soviet Union is an Australian
patriot; whoever is against the Soviet
Union is an Australian traitor.”
The Thornton attitude to the Japanese
war when Australia was threatened with
invasion and Mr. Curtin wass yelling for
help was: “We do not want any assist-
ance at the expense of our [Russian]
allies,”
A fortnight after Jap submarines had
invaded Sydney Harbor “Balance-sheet”
said: “Our main enemy is abroad, the
Nazis and Japan,” Germany always com-
ing first with him because it was at war
with Russia. He continued:
Towards the end of the year [1941] after
our management committee decided to
support the war [i.e., after Russia had come
in] Japan entered into it. This did not
alter the character of the war for us.
[i.e., as the entry of Russia did.]
Did not alter the character of the war!
This after Darwin had been bombed and
New Guinea ravaged and enslaved ; after
Australian naval men had been killed
within sound of this ruffian’s office in
Sydney ; after nearly 20,000 Australians
taken in Ambon, Timor, Java, New
Guinea, Malaya and Singapore had been
flung into horrible captivity, thousands
of them never to return.
All the time, as now, Thornton had no
interest save Russia ; po thought that was
not first uttered by Stalin,
In other countries the fellow would
have faced a firing squad. Here, under
“Labor,” he and fellows like him occu-
pied privileged positions. They ap-
peared, and still appear, to have merely
to lift their little fingers and “Labor”
Ministers fall down in awe.
They can squander union money
brazenly without accounting for it as
companies have to account for their ex-
penditure. They can carry on lawless
arid seditious strikes which amount to
forms of civil war. They had paper to
print unlimited quantities of Communist
literature straight from Russia early iii
1942 when others had no paper. The
telephone department during the war ran
to provide their party H.Q. with bat-
teries of instruments when 30,000 decent
citizens had no chance of telephone con-
nection.
Why wouldn’t Thornton soft-pedal his
attitude when “Labor” is in danaer of
losing more elections?
Censorship.
“Ek Dum”: A curious phenomenon,
perhaps the natural emanation of con-
sciences which carry the load of war-time
reporting, is the outburst of various news-
paper executives of Sydney against the
war-time censorship.
The leader of the pack is Mr. “Fight
for Australia in Java” Penton, editor
of the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” which
yelled for a Communist “people’s
army” in 1942, which rejoiced when, at
the most crucial period of the war, a chit
of an airline hostess turned the Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Australian forces
out of a window seat in an aircraft, and
which, until Alexander and Montgomery
made it look silly, was constant in its
endeavors to show that all British generals
were blimps and mugs, and that Russianis
should be imported to teach them how
to fight the Western Desert war.
It was the “Daily Telegraph” which,
at its own expense, was allowed to bring
a Yankee broadcaster who had been
rightly thrown off the air in Singapore,
where he was vomiting base libels
on his British hosts, to Sydney and
arrange for him to do his stuff under its
wing with the help of broadcasting ser-
vices.
Now Mr. Penton has been joined by
Associated Newspapers, whose principal
organ took leave to endanger the lives of
the troops in the first convoy of the
Second A.I.F. by printing a cartoon show-
ing “Three Wise Monkeys” contemplating
their departure. A favorite Associated
Newspapers picture at a time when
national morale needed all the sup-
port it could get was a Japanese
photograph of General Percival surren-
dering to the enemy, accompanied with
Communist-inspired innuendoes which
had no basis in fact. Despite these and a
hundred other tolerances which Associ-
ated Newspapers enjoyed one of. its lions
is quoted in “Newspaper News” as say-
ing :
I remind you that this kind of discussion
about our own press would not have been
held during the war. During the war the
standards I have enumerated truth,
honesty and freedom —took a terrific beat-
ing.
Truth was bound and muffled by an
incredible censorship, which we finally
broke. Honesty was hamstrung by the
same censorship, which forbade criticism
of even the most arrant mistakes and .in-
efficiencies. Freedom became the slave of
the official handout, the newly-important
bureaucrat, and the whims of the Services.
We published much which we suspected
of being half-true. We winced when the
only kind of authority we had for news
was some silly phrase like “Ankara radio
reports that Basle radio said that Stock-
holm radio has broadcast an interview with
a traveller from Berlin.” We knew that
many published statements were, kites flown
to test the wind of reaction in an enemy
country, and we had to carefully prune
the reactions we published—whatever we
privately thought of them —to fool the
kiteflyer.
We have scars on our consciences about
those war years, I assure you.
It is no mystery to servicemen that
the present scribe, during the years
1940-45, Wrote hundreds of columns deal-
ing almost exclusively with military and
military-political information.
Everything he wrote, printed in proof,
was submitted to censorship. He was
never forced to descend to printing any-
thing which would leave a scar on his
conscience. He was never forced to
refrain from denouncing anything pub-
lished —statements like the Sydney “Sun’s”
solemn asseveration that the Russians had
thrown two German armored divisions
into a creek before lunch, or that paper's
tale of the rout of two German armies
(27 divisions) on the Black Sea one morn-
ing, the rfemnants being driven shrieking
to the Dnieper by slaughtering Cossacks
on horseback.
Relations throughout the war between
this paper and the censorship, which it
found a great improvement on that of
1914-18, when an innocuous Low cartoon
was condemned to the scrap-heap (it was
published), were on a friendly and
mutually co-operative basis. It would
have been an exacting journalist indeed
who would have complained.
Allowing for the lack of training and
experience which handicapped some
members of the staff, the Sydney censors
did a good and faithful job. If there
was a fault it was that they were some-
times too lenient with papers like the
“Sun” and the “Daily Telegraph.”


Hxibt
/////
*1
'W
STIU KEEPS GOING WHEN
THE REST HAVE STOPPED
EXIDE IS THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
EXIDE
BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.. 44 BRIDGE ST..
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Judge William Raymond Kelly, who
had a shot at holding the scales between
the metal workers and their employers in
Melbourne the other day, was born in
Calcutta and divided his education be-
tween Xavier College, Calcutta, Christian
Brothers’, Adelaide, and the University of
Adelaide. He practised law in Yorke-
town (S.A.), was the town’s mayor for
a period, and had an early acquaintance
with labor problems as Deputy President
of the S.A. Industrial Court. One of the
youngest of the Arbitration Judges, he is
also the most taciturn,, but his adroit
handling of some of the most complicated
cases in recent history has gained him
respect from both sides. In private life
a fanatic on football he is the author of
one primer on the rules of the Australian
game and is engaged on another. He
married a granddaughter of Paris Nesbit,
in his day Adelaide’s most famous K.C.
A candidate for the vacancy on the
A.J.C. committee caused by the resigna-
tion of George Main, Norman Fraser,
managing-director of Cockatoo Docks
and Engineering Co., is the type of sports-
man likely to be an asset to any concern.
Facially and in stature an almost exact
double of Field-Marshal Montgomery,
Fraser, a Northumbrian, is also full of
Monty’s calvinistic zeal and rectitude.
He had little time for racing during
the war years, his job at Cockatoo being
one of the round-the-clock variety. Few
big ships entering Sydney Harbor up to
1945 did not call for major services from
his dockyard, and in his spare time he
earned the R.A.N.’s gratitude by building
the three most powerful units—all of
them now with historic war records —
added in recent years to the Common-
wealth Sea Forces. These were the de-
stroyers Arunta, Warramunga and Bataan.
He also built a large number of smaller
naval vessels. Though Randwick and
large pastoral interests have had to take
second place' to construction, the candi-
date has owned some good racing
them very effectively. One of the best-
known was Freckles, whose seven-furlong
Australian record is still unbroken.
For the first time in the sequence of
monthly Sunday meetings of the Mel-
bourne Bread and Cheese Club there has
been a feminine visitor: Ella Shields,
shadowed by “Burlington Bertie of Bow.”
Ella Bertie was there to further the in-
terests of the Food for Britain and the
Australian Outback Children Funds —£27
came in.
Medical-director for A.N.A., E. H.
Anderson, was educated at North Sydney
High and Sydney Uni. and was practis-
ing at Gloucester when the R.A.A.F.
called in 1939. He became principal medi-
cal officer specialising in aviation prob-
lems at the R.A.F. research laboratory
at Farnborough, Oxygen blackouts,
bends, night vision, fatigue, noise pre-
selection, flying clothing and a host of
other flying subjects received his atten-
tion. Back in Australia in 1943, he
went to Air Board as staff officer in
charge of aviation, and carried on his
research work at E.F.T.S. and S.F.T.S.
schools. Appointed medical director to
A.N.A. in 1946, he went to America to
see what his Yank counterparts were
doing. Harvard and the Mayo Clinic were
visited, and he was made an associate
member of Aero Medical Association of
America and a member of the Medical
Directors’ Association. His present job
covers medical efficiency of all air-crew
members and the safety, hygiene, sani-
tation, first-aid on the workshop side.
The troubles of hospitals in Melbourne
owing to rationing of this and that sound
trivial to just-returned doctors George
Oldfield and Lindsay Michael. The firsj
has been missionising in the Poona dis-
trict in India and the second attending
to the medical needs of the Indian Army.
Caste etiquette in that mysterious coun-
try demands that when a patient is taken
to hospital his relatives go with him, do-
ing his cooking for him and sleeping on
the floor beside him. In some wards six
cubicles have had to be built to accom-
modate the chefs of different castes, but,
with all this hostility to one another,
they showed no hostility to foreign
doctors, even during the hectic times of
the Bombay riots. Dr. Oldfield and his
wife have been in India for 20 years.
Dr. Michael went there nine years ago
and likes the country so much that he
is going back after a refresher course
in Melbourne.
Warwick Braithwaite’s energy isn’t con-
fined to wagging a baton at his orchestra.
When he arrived in Sydney from Britain
HOMING MAORILANDER.
just before Easter he stepped out of the
flying boat at Rose Bay at 6 a.m., break-
fasted and was whirled off on a round of
receptions and interviews. After lunch
A.B.C. couldn’t find him and assumed
he had crept away for a quiet sleep to
recuperate after his journey. Next morn-
ing they found he had spent the whole
afternoon and evening jostling and being
jostled by record crowds at the Sydney
Show. Pressing on to Melbourne, he
threw himself into a round of rehearsals
with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
and opened his Australian season at Mel-
bourne Town Hall on April 12, Braith-
waite, sketched here by Prior, is a Maori-
lander who left this part of the world 30
years ago. During that time he has be-
come one of the leading conductors in
Britain. After a time as musical director
of 8.8. C. Western Regional programmes,
and conductor of the National Orchestra
of Wales he became conductor of Sadler’s
Wells Opera in 1932, leaving it nine years
later to conduct the Scottish National
Orchestra. They work their musicians
hard in the Land o’ Cakes; one season
Braithwaite conducted 150 concerts.
“Uco” on a great American:
Henry Ford, dead in America at 83, leaving
a fortune so vast that estimates of it vary by
tens of millions, was a justification of the sav-
ing that hard work takes a long time to kill
a man. He worked hard all his life. Born at
Dearborn, Michigan, during the Civil War, he
designed a threshing machine —his father was
a farmer —while still in his teens and then
tackled a “horseless carriage.” His first model
alarmed the horses and humans of his neigh-
borhood in 1890, but he didn’t produce seriously
until 1903, when he founded the Ford Motor
Co. with himself as president. Introducing mass-
production methods, he soon had the'T-Model
Ford rolling off the assembly line and chugging
forth first to all parts of America and then to
every country in the world. Preceded, accom-
panied and followed by Tin Lizzie jokes and
anecdotes, it was the first car to bring motoring
within the reach of the man on a low income,
and Ford’s mass-production methods, adopted
by other concerns, brought in the Automobile
Age. Henry banded over the presidency of the
firm to his son Edsel in 1919, but took over
the reins again in 1943 when Edsel died. Stig-
matised by Leftists as an enemy of the worker,
Ford was always an advocate of high wages
—he introduced a profit-sharing scheme
over 30 years ago—and, a hard worker him-
self, he looked for a high standard pf endeavor
from his employees. Outside his own business
he was a little unworldly—his Peace Ship
venture of World War I was an outstanding
example of this side of his nature —but he
probably left his mark on industry more than
any other man *of the age.
South Australian B. Austin Ninnes,
who won the Australian junior farmers’
competition sponsored by the A.B.C. ai
the Royal Sydney Show, hopes to col-
lect his agricultural diploma at Rose-
worthy College this year. At Nuriootpa
High (S.A.) Ninnes won a bursary at 14,
then studied agricultural science at Ade-
laide Uni. for two years before entering
Roseworthy last year. He’s 20.
Maoriland authors are well among the
books London publishing houses are
issuing this year. John Brodie (“John
Guthrie”), New Plymouth, author of So
They Began (film version The Little
Country), kicks off with The Man in Our
Lives, a Book Society recommendation
for March. Major-General Kippen-
berger, war historian, will issue his remi-
niscences this year. Geoffrey, Cox, of
London “News-Chronicle,” has The Road
to Trieste on the stocks,* while a manu-
script found among the effects of John
Mulgan, after his death in the Middle
East, will be published under the title
Summary Experience; John was a son
of Alan Mulgan, of N.Z., author, poet
and journalist. Shadow of War, by James
Bertram, will be published in London
and New York this year. Son of a Pres-
byterian parson who served St. Peter’s,
North Sydney, about 25 years ago, Ber-
tram wrote Crisis in China and North
China Front, as a result of his experi-
ences in the Jap-Chinese conflict prior to
the bigger war. Due this year also is
For the Rest of Our Lives, by Daniel
Davin, ex-Aucklander, now of Oxford
University Press ; he also has The Gorse
Blooms Fade due for publication in May.
A King departs:
Christian X of Denmark, one of the three
Scandinavian countries that were an example
to the whole world of decency and sanity until
Hitler pillaged two of them and isolated the
third, succeeded his father, Frederik VIII, in
1912. He was then 42; he died this week
at 76. A well-loved constitutional monarch, his
proudest moment was probably in July, 1920,
when he made a State entry into North Schles-
wig, restored. to his country under the Treaty
of Versailles after half a century of German
rule; his saddest, April 9, 1940, when German
troops occupied his kingdom. Although Chris-
tian submitted to German rule, neither he nor
his people ever accepted it as anything other
than a temporary misfortune to be borne as
stoically as possible and resisted wherever prac-
ticable’. Christian is succeeded by the Crown
Prince, who becomes Frederik IX. The new
King is 48 and is married to Princess Ingrid
erf Sweden.
Many Australians who lived in the
Connaught Club, London, before the
First World War will remember Archi-
bald Raymond Wiggins as the club’s
assistant secretary a’nd their own good
friend and adviser, especially if newly
come to London. He was a member of
the Salvation Army then —though few of
the residents knew it—and has been since
the age of 16. Now, at 54, he has come
to Australia a lieutenant-colonel in that
organisation, to be editor-in-chief of the
Salvation Army’s publications in this
country. After passing through the
Army’s training college he devoted him-
self to the literary side; during the past
25 years he has written 89 poems and
101 songs for the Army, and has edited
its papeh, the “Musician,” for 13 years.
He has travelled in Europe extensively
in the interests of the international
“War Cry,” and is the author of several
books, including Father of Salvation
Army Music, the life story of Richard
Slater, and Campaigning in Captivity, an
account of the “Salvos’ ” work in intern-
ment and p.-0.-w. camps from the Isle
of Man right round to Japan. When
Colonel Wiggins recently arrived in Aus-
tralia he was given an unusual reception
at Camberwell (Vic.) —an evening recital
of his own songs. Colonel Wiggins was
SALVATION SONGWRITER.
in Sydney for the Army’s Easter Tent
meetings, when Heth did the sketch. He
is no mean caricaturist himself.
Retiring from the managing-dirfector-
ship of General Motors-Holden, L. J.
Hartnett, who held that position for 13 ■
years, and during the war period added
to it the job of Director of Ordnance
Production for the Commonwealth and
chairman of the Army Inventions Direc-
torate. His post-war job was reconciling
American capital to the problem of pro-
ducing an all-Australian motor-car. His
successor is H. E. Bottle, since 1945
regional manager for Australasia. Born
in U.S.A., Bettle took the degree of
Bachelor Science, served with the
American Army in the First World War,
joined General Motors in 1923, and has
held important jobs in S. Africa, Europe
and Argentina.
Any ghillie transferred to these harsh
climes and yearning for the sound of a
haggis or the sight of a pibroch would
need but one glance at this face to ex-
claim, “Yon’s frae Aberrrdeen.” And from
Aberdeen came Alexander Keith, blow-
ing into Sydney along with the Royal
Easter Show, as part of a goodwill tour
which has already embraced the U.S.A.
and Argentina land will take him heaven
knows where, so long as there is a black
poll for a lodestone. He is secretary of
the parent Aberdeen Angus Society, and
when his goodwill tour was mooted
naturally had some difficulty in per-
suading the treasurer of the Society to
FRAE ABERDEEN.
advance the needful /bawbees. The
treasurer is one Alexander Keith, who
also happens to be secretary. However,
after Keith had argued with Keith, every*
thing went smoothly and A.A. societies
throughout the world have not only en-
countered a personality as fresh and
breezy as the Hielahs, but one who could
bring to them a deep knowledge of breed
society work and a conviction that the
black polls are .steadily advancing to a
high place in the beef world.
Into the silence:
At Christchurch, M.L., at 73, Arnold Wilfred
Skrimptoti, at one time assistant lecturer to
James Might in history and economics at
Canterbury Uni. College. He co-operated with
Alan Mulgan in a history of N.Z. and was
engaged in research preparatory to writing
Julius Vogel’s life. For 40 years A.W.S. was
editor for the publishing firm of Whitcombe
and Tombs.
In Sydney, at 77, Alick Mackenzie, who
played cricket with Paddington in the days of
Trumpet and Noble, for Waverley with Syd.
Gregory, and for N.S.W. at the turn of the
century. Later he took up bowls and won
several club championships. For many years
he was an Audit Department man.
At East Devonport (Tas.), at 82, W. D.
Winspear, for almost 60 years the best-known
man in Tasmania among cattle- and sheepmen.
A hunter, Royal, carried his colors in show rings
for many years and he also bred the cross-
country performer, Topaz, successful in Tas.
and on the mainland.
In Melbourne, at 65, William Mercer
Catanach, one of Melbourne’s leading jewellers
and an authority on diamonds. A son, Squad-
ron-Leader Catanach, was killed in an attempt
to escape from a German p.-0.-w. camp in
1944.
At Watsonia (Vic.), at 82, Robert Wyburn
Hodgins, founder of Hodgins Nurseries, and
one of the State’s leading horticulturists. He
introduced an uncounted number of new shrubs
which decorate suburban gardens. His three
sons are all nurserymen.
In Sydney, Charles Langdon Sadgrove, well-
known in the business, social and sporting life of
Brisbane for nearly 40 years. He had beep
managing-director of James Hardie and a lead-
ing figure in Rotary.


Woman's Letter
From Sydney
With all Australia this Letter wishes
Princess Elizabeth many happy returns of
her birthday, which fell on Monday. The
princess is now 21, a charming, attractive
and thoroughly unspoiled girl, a daughter
worthy of Royal parents who have proved
themselves so much one with their people.
A feature of the birthday celebrations in
Sydney was the number of young groups
and youthful organisations who held
parties rejoicing among themselves at
their princess’s coming of age. The
Young Contingent of the Victoria League
served cocktails last Friday to honor the
occasion. There was song and dance at
the Memorial College of Household Arts
and Sciences at Kirribilli on Monday
afternoon. In the evening the Anzac
Fellowship of Women celebrated at their
club rooms in Scot Chambers. The Royal
Empire Society has sent a cheque (as a
birthday gift) for £9OO to the Food for
Britain Fund instead of the opal necklace
it intended. A small engrossed booklet
goes to H.R.H. commemorating the event.
It is almost too much of a let-down
after two hours or so of the Boyd Neel
orchestra to have to go out into the chilly
wet of a Sydney autumn night. The
trouble about such an orchestra is that
it stirs all the aristocratic instincts.
Listening, you are lulled into the idea
that the glorious sounds are vibrating
through some marble, tapestry-hung
palazzo when the Medicis were in flower.
Then at the final note you toil out look-
ing for a cheap taxi to take you home to
a flat where the plumbing is probably
better, but where the radio sounds more
inadequate than ever. The Boyd Neel
orchestra is a thing not to be missed.
On the opening night of the season
Charles Wilmot, of the British Council,
was host at a supper party that turned
into a movable feast between the foyer
and the buck of the hall itself. Mr.
Neel and the members of his orchestra
shook their ears free of the heavenly
sounds with which they normally dwell
and became part of the vox Humana
chorus. Could it have been fancy, or did
the player lads show preference for the
sausage-roll and the cocktail sausage?
Heard one girl saying to a member of
the orchestra: “Oh, yes, you will like
Sydney—there’s something hbout it.”
“It wouldn’t by any chance be the food,
would it?” queried he, stretching for
another sausage.
Out to Rose Bay to meet the
Qantas flying-boat went British High
Commissioner E. J. Williams and
Maoriland’s High Commissioner J. G.
Barclay. They, were the first to
welcome Lord Killearn, Britain’s special
commissioner in South-East Asia, who
with his wife and young children
has arrived for a short holiday} in Aus-
tralia and Enzed. Lord Killearn’s job
deals with the all-important problem of
food —food in the Far East or the near
North, according to your position on the
map. Lady Killearn is small, dark and
sparkling. Victor, the eldest child, is
a little over five, then comes Jacquetta
Jean, and the baby is Roxena Rose. Her
nurse is Miss Timms, who came with the
Wakehursts to Government House as
nurse to Robert Loder. When at home
the Killearns live in a palace in Johore.
It was smart to go to the opening of
Loudon Sainthill’s exhibition last Wed-
nesday. The pictures were served with
sherry, from five to seven. The intro-
ductory words were spoken by the deco-
rative Mrs. Eleanora Arrighi. The popu-
lar Hubners —he is Minister for Chile —
came from Canberra for the occasion.
Doone at Darling Point will be
getting its name up as an artistic and
intellectual guest-house. Doone went all
Celtic the other night, and in one of its
reception-rooms nearly 100 enthusiasts
gathered to hear Mrs. George Lambie’s
fascinating talk on the Hebrides —she
knows every inch of the isles. Alice
Prowse sang such haunting folk songs as
“Sleeps the Noon in the Deep-blue Sky,”
“Deirdre’s Lament,” “Peat Fire Flame”
and several others ; Mrs. Lambie giving
the legend of each song. Flora Bunning,
of Perth, was the night’s solo pianist.
Gladys Hart and composer James Brash
were the accompanists. “Food for
Britain” benefits, and the Anderson lady,
an untiring worker in the Cause, spoke.
Principal of St. Andrew’s College, Rev.
Dr. Cumming Thom, made graceful
thanks. Earlier in the evening Mrs.
Kiernan, wife of Eire’s Minister to Aus-
tralia, sang a group of old Irish songs.
General and Mrs. Sidney Herring, of
Killara, are welcoming home daughter
Diana (Mrs. Clifford Lake). Mrs. Lake
has been away from Sydney for 10 years,
many of which have been taken up with
a war job. However, her singing was not
altogether neglected, as she travelled to
Belgium, Holland and Germany wijth
SrTwfbrlToW
status - Ihc >f ar before warßroke out
ahe san S at the £amed Glyndebourne
Wilmo. of the British Council,
°P ened ! h f ™ rre , nt f*T E /h™ T?™™
V o ™? ** Soctety last Friday atenoon
“ ,he Ed “ aMo " Dep t art ™ h „w?
There are . 150 ‘ odd P ain ' mgs sho ™'
fill both big rooms, and among them the
c£. “and “ “I
™ STV'd??
Ahson Rehfischs Road to Grose Vale
was an ’°?g things liked. There was a
f eat . rol| - u P ° £ ,he P amters and ‘ h „ e ' H r
fnemS-and the rooms were charged
, c “ rrents f ° f Y outh ea ™ e^ ss > s °
that d “ y°tr self an enemy to a
S reat deal o£ th j e . c ?, n u I m
* a
McCallum, general secretary
of the Country Women’s Association, is
busy at all times - Now she has two big
iobg Qn hand _ there is the c.W.A. sea-
side homes appeal, the big Silver Jubilee
effort, and the C.W.A. conference in June.
Photograph of Margaret is by Norton
Trevaire.
Cards are out for a lunch given by the
Women’s Section of the Australian-
American Association. This will be held
at the Savarin, in George-street, at half-
past 12 tomorrow. The guest of honor
is Mrs. Robert Butler, wife of the Am-
bassador of the United States of America.
In the Grosvenor Galleries yesterday
David McNicoll opened a show of paint-
ings by Violette Whitley.
Victoria Leaguers are still talking about
the letter from London telling them of
the new V.L. home. This is a mansion
on the corner of Belgrave-square and
Chesham-place, and in addition to ad-
ministrative offices and residential floors
it has three large reception rooms —lined
with silk brocade. There is also a dining-
room which will hold 50 and a snack bar
which will hold even more than 50 for
quick-lunchers. The new V.L. home in
London is really a war memorial, and
branches of the league all over the Em-
pire are contributing to its purchase.
Big Sydney effort will be the Empire Ball
in the Trocadero on May 22. Tickets are
one guinea each, and are on sale from
Monday to Friday between one and three
o’clock in the Victoria League rooms, 19
Bligh-street.
On May 1 Canonbury, in Darling
Point-roaci Darling Point, will be opened
as an adjunct to the Women’s Hospital,
Crown-street. The A.J.C. has leased
Canonbury to the Women’s Hospital for
“a peppercorn a year if demanded,” and
the hospital board has arranged for the
necessary renovations, furnishing and
equipment. Canonbury will house post-
natal cases. Mothers and their babies
will be taken from Crown-street by ambu-
lance three days after the babies
are born. The Governor of New South
Wales, Lieut.-General Northcott, will
make the opening speech at three o’clock.
Remember, Lorna Sydney sings in the
Town Hall tomorrow at eight fifteen.
Also on Tuesday next.
Such consistent concert-goers as Ernest
Lashmar are talking with bated breath
of the art of Ninon Vallin. This French
singer last Tuesday night brought to the
Town Hall exquisite singing, grace, a
sensibility of style and a feeling of hori-
zons beyond that of the singing studio.
The Town Hall audience rose to her
qualities and gave her an ovation. It was
a singer audience —Marie Bremner,
Natalie Rosenwax, Maude Telfer, Gladys
Verona, Margaret Gillespie, Alice Prowse
were keen applauders. Painters, too, who
had heard Ninon in Paris rolled up, Dora
Jarrett among them. Frenchwomen
among the listeners must have sighed for
those exclusive little shops along the Rue
St. Honore when they glimpsed the
singer’s frock so gracefully draped, its
warm yet subtle amethyst shade being
just right for the personality of Ninon
Vallin.
Still in the news for its fragrant flowers
and interesting guests is the Fyvie Watts’
farewell party given in the Macquarie
Club to the Alan Watts. Mr. Alan Watt,
brother to the host, is Australia’s newly-
appointed Minister to Moscow, and he
and his wife are among the travellers in
the Orion.
Stephanie Edye, now in London, and
still with the Polish Ballet Company, was
rehearsing with her former teacher, the
famed Brunelleschi, when she noticed a
man visitor to the studio who seemed to
regard the dancing with the eye of the ex-
pert. Stephanie thought she knew him,
and later on discovered he was Vladimir
Launitz, who had been in Sydney with the
Dandre Company and later with De
Basil’s Ballet Russe. In those days he had
a pet lizard, Willie, and a carpet-snake.
In reply to the Sydney girl’s inquiries he
said he had left Willie behind him in
Vaucluse, and the snake has been sent
off to a zoo outside England—its diet was
largely raw eggs.
Travel note from Major and Mrs.
Manley. They had a glorious trip across
to U.S.A. on the m.v. Mangarella. They
had perfect weather during their stay in
San Francisco, where they put up at the
enormous St. Francis Hotel. From there
they went on to Chicago.
From Melbourne
For the gala opening of “Life with
Father” at the Princess, women wore their
loveliest gowns and jewels ; one playgoer
wore two sets of earrings, one at the top
of the ear, the other at the lobe. Coronets
of flowers adorned well-dressed hair;
long gloves set off many of the gowns.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s gown of old-gold
crepe was patterned with gold sequins ;
her Edwardian hair-do featured three
gold Chinese stick-pins. Mrs. Con Cur-
tain’s gown of pale-pink lace had the
pattern outlined with crystal beads to
form the bodice ; the full skirt was of
deep-purple velvet. Hazel Honeyman’s
gown was of beige satin. Ivy Parker set
off her auburn hair with a gown of
sapphire-blue Chantilly cobweb lace with
sequins set in the centre of each cobweb.
Mrs. H. A. Charlwood, wife of the man-
ager of the theatre, chose a taffeta gown
in pale-orchid tonings. With cartoonist
Sam Wells was Mrs. Wells, her black
velvet evening coat featuring yoke and
sleeves of gold brocade. Mrs. Frank
May wore a gown of leaf-green crepe.
Mrs. Alan Tate, who was with her medico
husband, chose one of the new short
dinner gowns in beige lace and over it
wore a mink coat. *Mrs. A. Coleman,
who was with the Fred Irvines, wore a
black gown and dyed ermine coat. A
black coque feather encircled the head
of Mrs. Alan Potter, whose gown was of
rust-striped black satin.
The original “Merry Widow,” Carrie
Moore, enjoyed all the glamor and excite-
ment of a “first night” wearing a grey
lame gown patterned with small sprays
of gay flowers. Over it was a
crimson velvet evening coat. Bare
shoulders were evident when wraps were
removed. Mrs. Allan Ryan wore a white
embossed velvet gown, one shoulder of
which was covered with a frill of the
material which swept round to the front
but left the right shoulder bared. With
her was Mrs. Gilbert Walsh, whose pastel-
blue ninon gown was finished with shoe-
string strapS of purple-velvet.
Smart women went in their hundreds
to Albury for the two-days racing festi-
val. Vying with the beds of glowing
flowers were the colors of the dresses.
There were blues in all shades from deep
midnight, royal and aqua through to the
pastels. There were corn yellow and
mustards ; glowing cherry reds and green
in varying shades made their contribution
to the fashion picture. There were classic
suits and the more popular dressmaker
suit, the latter featuring the accent of
shoulder treatment. Hats, too, were well
in the picture. Many of them were large,
with more shape than of previous seasons,
and they were more heavily trimmed.
Feathers were used to trim the more
dressy models, but ribbon as trimming on
smart hats came into its own.
Mrs. M. Falkiner favored a smartly-
tailored suit in beech brown; her small
upturned felt hat was banded in brown
and beige ribbon. Also favoring a trim
tailored suit was Mrs. Max Welsh, from
Upper Murray ; hers was of grey flannel,
and with it she wore a grey hat banded
in white. Mrs. Colin Chisholm chose a
brown crepe frock, a check of brown and
henna trimming her brown hat. Mrs.
David Carnegie’s grey tailored suit was
worn with a grey hat banded in white
grosgrain ribbon. Mrs. Alex McMeekin
(from Wagga, N.S.W.) wore a black coat-
frock piped in gold and trimmed with
gold buttons. Mrs. A. A. Rogers- caught
the eye in a tomato wool-crepe frock and
a wide-brimmed black hat trimmed with
a sweep of black ostrich feather curled
round the brim. Mrs. W. F. Arnold’s
green tweed suit was worn with brown ac-
cessories. Mrs. J. T. McGrath, who pre-
sented the rider of the winner of the
Albury Cup with a gold-mounted whip,
was outstanding in a mist-blue crepe
frock which had a yoke of grey guipure
lace which was repeated on the short
sleeves of the full-length matching coat.
Her upturned hat was of grey straw
with grey velvet trimming. Mrs. Ken
Hooper topped a black frock with a high
turban in royal-blue and emerald-green
satin. Mrs. Des McCormick’s coat-frock
was banded in pale blue and cyclamen.
Mrs. M. Matenson’s navy jacket was
ornamented with white scrolls ; her
daughter Deborah was in saxe blue with
navy accessories. Mrs. F. Grant, of
Wodonga, wore a beige ensemble with a
hat in nut-brown velvet.
On the night of the Albury Cup Mr.
and Mrs. J. T. McGrath entertained
guests at the George Hotel with a dinner
dance. Across the road the Town Hall
was decorated for a dance which was
organised by a large committee to help
the funds of the /ftbury Free Kinder-
garten. Over 150 dancers were entertained
during the evening with floor shows.
Messrs. J. Braid and W. Pay, the official
hosts, were assisted by Mrs. H. J. Roarty,
whose white crepe evening gown was
trimmed with silver sequins, and Mrs. K.
Padman, whose full skirt of burgundy
crepe was allied to a tunic patterned with
blue and cyclamen flowers.
Mrs. Les Sangster, a traveller on
Orion with her husband, was guest of
honor at a luncheon party at Menzies.
Mrs. J. Hattam was hostess, and among
those invited to say “farewell” included
Lois Green, star of “Follow the Girls,”
whose deep mulberry crepe suit was worn
with a high-crowned, wide-brimmed
matching straw hat, flower-trimmed. The
guest of honor chose a black suit, a small
black hat and silver foxes. Mrs. Hattam
had cross-fox fur bands on the sleeves
of her burgundy wool coat; her black
hat was trimmed with ospreys. Mrs.
Alan Bernaldo wore an English knitted
suit in rust tones with a rust-toned felt
hat.
The lass pictured here is Velie Ander-
son, who is chairwoman of the com-
mittee that is organising the St. Cath-
erine’s Old Girls’ Association “At Home
which will be held at the St. Kilda Town
Hall on April 30. All the proceeds will
be devoted to the funds of the school.
After leaving school Velie went for a
trip to England. On returning she trained
for X-ray work, and is now a fully-
fledged operator. Off the job Velie plays
tennis and bridge. •
Planned at a time when the autumn
season is in its full glory, colorful foliage
will be brought from Macedon gardens
and used to decorate the St. Kilda Town
Hall for the St. Catherine’s “At Home.”
Kathleen Lascelles, who is one of the
ticket secretaries, some years ago formed
the Gloucester Auxiliary, made up of
public school boys and girls, to work
for the Prince Henry Hospital. Pam
Cowper, Angela Fink and Betty Mc-
Connan are also busy disposing of
tickets ; they hope that over 1000 dancers
will take the floor.
Geoffrey Warwick, infant son of Mr.
and Mrs. Noel Spicer (she was formerly
Judy Peters, of Sydney), wore a 150-year-
old robe of fine Indian lawn lent by Mrs.
H. F. Maudsley when he was christened
at Christ Church, South Yarra, by the
Rev. H. Housden. Godparents were Mr.
and Mrs. George Brookes, of Sydney,
and Dr. H. H. Maudsley and his daughter
Ann, of Melbourne. Later in the after-
noon, Mr. and Mrs. Spicer entertained
at their J!at, Mrs. Spicer wearing a frock
and full-length coat of hyacinth-blue
crepe. Her matching felt bowler hat was
trimmed with blue birds’ wings—and veil-
ing. Ann Maudsley was also in blue,
hers in pastel tonings and worn under a
tailored black coat; her small blue hat
was trimmed with streamers of ribbon
and ribbon flowers.


gdf
g
Have You Made
a Will?
Sometimes there is hesitation In making a
will because it is regarded as a final and
* irrevocable step. But a will may be altered
or changed completely any number of times
during the life of its maker.
In all cases it is advisable to engage the ser-
vices of a solicitor, and, in appointing
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Ltd. as Executor, you avail yourself
of the services of Australia’s oldest trustee
company. It has more than 68 years’
practical experience in estate administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
I BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WAXES DIRECTORS;
B. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Xeslle Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French,
Incorporated in Victoria In 1878.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR LIMITED
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 6C
Notice is hereby given that a first interim
dividend of 121 P er cent. (6d. per share sterling)
in respect of the year ending 30th June, 1947,
less United Kingdom income tax at the stand-
ard rate to be fixed by the British Government
on 15th April, 1947, has been declared and will
be payable on 29th May next to all persons
registered as holders of shares on the Australian
register at the close of business on 19th April,
1947, The transfer books will be closed from
21st April to 23rd April, 1947, both days in-
clusive.
From Lake View and Star Limited, R. D.
Morrison, Local Secretary, Kalgoorlie, W.A.
11th April. 1947.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
. ( Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. 8 p.c. 4 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30.000 136,421 373,948
16 p.c.
1937. . 157,543 24,000 120,000 13,543 887,491
26 p.c.
1988.. 243,251 24,000 195,000 24,251 411.742
Additional taxation, £31,000 .. 380,742
16 p.c.
1939.. 146,303 24,000 120,000 2,303 383,045
Tax reserve brought back, £13,150.. 396,195
24 p.c,
1940.. 114,082 24,000 180,000 306,277
12 p.c.
1941.. 134,112 24,000 90,000 20,112 326,389
*14.6 p.c.
1942.. 134,702 24,000 110,000 702 327,091
Tax and insurance reserve brought
back, £37,000 364,091
16 p.c.
1943.. 145,469 24,000 120,000 1,469 865,560
Excess tax provision written back
£109,696 475,256
17.4 p.c.
1944.. 155,796 24,000 131,000 796 476,052
40.5 p.c.
1945.. 122,191 24,000 305,000 —■ 269,243
From inner reserves, £74,088 .. 343,331
26.4 p.c.
1946.. 214,367 24,000 198,000 335,698
Rubber manufacturers made a good get-
away in the transition race. The switch-
over from war to peace production pro-
ceeded quickly and smoothly, because,
except for adjustment of methods made
necessary by substitution of synthetic for
natural rubber, war-time activities of the
industry did not in general compel any
major alteration of productive equipment
and layout.
Like other important producers, the
industry now has the overflowing order
book that goes with a sellers’ market.
Last year saw the end of tyre and tube
rationing, and there was a heavy accumu-
lated demand for replacements—owing
to rationing, most privately-owned cars
in Australia had long continued in re-
stricted use on patched shoes. Good-
year’s sales, which “substantially exceeded
the £5,000,000 mark,” were the best in
the co.’s history.
Declared net earnings shot up
£92,176, reaching £214,367, third-
best showing in the co.’s history. That
was after setting aside an extra £260,000
for the taxgatherer (£321,000) and allow-
ing £75,826 (down £29,072) for deprecia-
tion. And £74,088 of “income earned in
previous years” was brought from hiding
and put in the window. The £214,367 of
profit claimed covered the pref. div. and
25.3 p.c. on the £750,000 of ord. capital
(all held by the big parent co. in U.S.A.),
compared with 13.4, 17.5, 16.2, 14.7 and
14.6 p.c. back to 1941. The div., lifted
from 17.4 p.c. in 1944 to a juicy 40.5 p.c.
in 1945, was dropped to 26.4 p.c. The
distribution in 1945 was doubtless in-
fluenced by the growing scarcity of
dollars.
Since the co. was formed in 1927 —
to sidestep tariff and other difficulties, it
took over iTie ready-made importing busi-
ness built up by the parent—the ords.
have had an average of 12.2 p.c. For
the first five years no div. was paid, sur-
plus earnings being reinvested in the
business. The policy ,has been to pay for
additions to fixed assets largely out of
earnings and then from the same source
severely write them down. The effect of
such a policy is to enhance competitive
power and earning ability in relation to
a fixed capital account.
During the year production of syn-
thetic rubber was discontinued, except
for certain specialised products. The
growth of £463,567 in stocks is largely an
insurance against possible interruption in
the flow of supplies and price fluctua-
tions :
1938. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Pref. capital.. £BOO,OOO £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital. . 750,000 750,000 750,000 760,000
Goodyear (U. 3.) 54,800
Creditors .. 146,5,83* 558,756 178,721 334,805
Tax reserve .. 245,867 80,300 561,837
Freeholds,
plant, etc. .. 407,063 347,667 330,844 360,543
Stock . . . . 683,857 1,318,522 747,139 1,210,706
Book debts .. 298,008 474,643 229,102 656,929
Cash, etc. .. 80,501 51,151 271,680 54,163
Java subsid. .. 197,300
* Including taxation, etc.
Resumption of normal trading is reflected
in an expansion of £427,827 in debtors’
balances. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£1,025,156)
was £36,256.
At 38s. the prefs. yield 4.2 p.c., which
is a very satisfactory return from a well-
protected stock these days.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 56,645 7J p.c.= 37,500 7,500 1 17 0
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO f 6645 173 ’ 741
1937.. 67,124 9 p.c. = 45,000 22,124 195,865
1938.. 74,417 10 „ „ 50,000 15,000 9,417 205,282
1939.. 92,225 10 „ „ 60,616 20,000 11,609 216,891
1940.. 98,135 10 „ „ 72,137 20,000 5,998 222,889
1941.. 94,741 10 „ „ 72,208 20,000 2,533 225,422
1942.. 83,038 10 „ „ 72,208 10,830 236,252
1943. . 81,216 10 „ ~ 72,208 9,008 245,260
Inner Reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO ..345,261
1944.. 82,249 10 p.c. = 72,208 10,041 355,302
1945.. 84,757 10 „ „ 72,208 12,549 367,851
1946.. 89,692 10 „ „ 72,208 17,484 385,335
1947.. 93,987 10 „ „ 72,208 21,779 407,114
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of this co.’s scrip, is pre-
pared to wait for its benefits. Since the
lifting of controls at the end of 1946,
it has lengthened its bid for the f.-p.
pound shares, visibly covered by 31s. 3d.
in net tangibles, from 625. to 675. 3d,
At the higher figure the return is 3 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div, basis. The investor who
looks for approximately 4 p.c. on his
money counts on the div. going to 12
p.c., or on a one-for-three bonus scrip
issue ; neither seems likely until the board
is more certain as to what the future holds.
The co. has a pleasing history. Over
the last 23 years £250,000 of reserves
has been capitalised (in 1924 and 1928)
and £354,133 of inner reserves disclosed.
The last shake-out was three years back,
when £lOO,OOO, . previously reserves
against advances, was dropped into
visible accumulations. The div., which
was kept steady at 10 p.c. for 13 years
to the close of accounts in 1931, dropped
to 6 p.c. during the slump, then rose to
10 p.c. again in 1938, and has remained
steady since.
Pre-war the purchase of hotel proper-
ties and absorption of the Walkerville
Co-op. Brewery' widened and tightened
the co.’s grip upon the trade in S. Aus,
And inner reserves benefited by £139,691
from the Walkerville deal. Consumption
of beer increased during the war, and
growth of population following rapid ex-
pansion of industrial activity in S, Aus.
augurs well for maintenance of the co.’s
turnover, which also extends to the
thirsty mining centre of Broken Hill
(N.S.W.). Net earnings averaged £85,947
for the half-dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1946 as against an average of
£77,709 for the preceding quinquennium.
Sales continued to increase last term.
After providing whatever was considered
necessary for depreciation and taxation,
and including £2205 dropped from some-
where into reserves, the declared net
result was £4295 better at £93,987. That
was 13 p.c. on capital as against 12.4,
11.7, 11.3, 11.2, 11.5, 13.1 and 13.5 p.c.
back to 1940.,
It is now mainly the level of turnover
and costs that determines brewery profits.
Selling prices are fixed by official edict,
and it seems unlikely that they will be
lifted at the moment. Production and
distribution costs are still on the up-
grade, and are likely to remain so for a
while, witness the interim lift in the basic
wage and recent release of the peg in
other wages, and the dislocation caused
by fuel and other shortages and labor
hold-ups. The question of a 40-hour
week still * awaits the decision of the
Arbitration Court. And there is no sign
of any recession in the price of barley,
hops, sugar and other items of outgo.
Though well ribbed financially, the co.
has been unable to get ahead with its
programme of construction, repairs and
replacements to brewery and hotels, be-
cause it has to take its place in the queue
of applicants for construction materials:
1938. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £722,080 £722,080 £722,080
Creditors* .. 126,345 833,257 338,394 350,835
Freeholds ■• 1 1 962,154 867,673 821,834
Plant, etc. .. } 084,140 [ 80,417 30,324 32,858
Stocks .. 25,525 61,393 109,054 88,043
Book debtsf . . 36,805 117,907 160,006 202,221
Advances .. 152,536 83,912 131,759 137,051
Cash .. .. 72,617 21,911 183,096 234,126
* Includes taxation, f Includes shareholdings.
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded the amount coming to
creditors, etc., by £327,606 (up £82,029).
And the position is stronger than it
looks, because assets are worth more
than their book value; and the amount
coming to creditors includes an unspeci-
fied provision for taxation. Since 1942
the book value of freeholds has been
reduced by £140,320, of which £45,839
was in respect of last term, when cash
was strengthened by £51,030.
Afforestation (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
Many of those who bought one or
more acre lots in this afforestation venture
some 20 years or so ago are beginning to
wonder when, if ever, they will get the
£750 net per acre they were led to expect,
or even part of it. The co. itself is unable
to give any worth-while indication; and
no other body or person is better fitted
to do so.
It is a Melbourne concern, operating in
conjunction with Afforestation Pty. Ltd.,
and was formed during the boom in this
class of speculation in the 1920’5. Both
cos. have the same management. Some
25,000 acres freehold were bought, at an
unstated price, in the Auckland (M.L.)
district. This area has been divided into
sections of 1000 acrfes each, and the
sections have each been subdivided into
acre lots. The public was invited to take
up a “beneficial interest” in these acre
lots at £3O each.
In return for payment of this sum
(= £750,000 on 25,000 acres) the co.
undertook to plant each acre with
approximately 680 pine-trees (radiata),
pay rates and taxes for 20 years, and
transfer the title of each section (1000
acres) to trustees, whose job it is to see
that the co. carries out its contract with
lot-holders.
The “beneficial interest” amounts to
this: Each section is to be held in trust
until returns from the products thereof
yield £750 net for each acre lot, when-
ever that might be. After that returns
from each section, still held in trust, will
belong one half to lot-holders and the
other half to the co. Meanwhile the co.
will have gathered whatever profit there
may have been on sale of the original
“beneficial interests,” and there are good
grounds for assuming it has been substan-
tial. Since the co. is a proprietary con-
cern, it does not publish its balance sheet.
There is nothing in the contract be-
tween the co. and its lot-holders to say
that it should replant lots damaged by
fire before maturity of the trees, or to
indicate who would be responsible for
the conversion and marketing of forest
products and for financing these activi-
ties. Whether these omissions were de-
liberate or not the “Wild Cat” cannot
say. What it can say is that in the con-
tract the co. reserved for itself an in-
terest in prospective future profits from
the trees, and early in the 1930’s literature
put out by the co. suggested that lot-
holders themselves would be responsible
for conversion and marketing.
Last year a fire “killed the timber on
sections A, B, C and H.” On three other
sections, E, F and G, “the damage ap-
pears to be so slight as to render any loss
almost negligible.” Other sections of the
plantation have not suffered material
damage. Salvable milling timber on sec-
tions A, B and C is estimated at 10 mil-
lion super feet. In addition there is esti-
mated to be 12 million super feet avail-
able for “chemical utilisation” (presum-
ably pulping) on all sections damaged by
the fire.
Last month the co. circularised lot-
holders whose interests were affected say-
ing that it had attempted to go ahead with
two plans for utilisation of fire-damaged
and other salvable timber. The first was
to mill such timbers as could be so treated
and the second was “chemical utilisation”
of unmiliable timber.
As for “chemical utilisation,” the circu-
lar says “it was found that any Australian
co. operating such a project in New Zea-
land would have to pay taxes amounting
to 17s. 6d. in each £.” And nonchalantly
the co. adds that “under such circum-
stances the timber unsuitable for milling
must be allowed to rot and the lot-holders
concerned suffer a total loss unless some
relief from such taxation can be ob-
tained.” Lot-holders in section H are
those mainly concerned in this loss. No
offer is made by the co. to replant the
area for them. And they are virtually in
the position of creditors with their teeth
drawn, and other lot-holders are not in a
very different position.
So far the milling plan has proved an
abortive effort, too. The Maoriland Gov-
ernment “would not permit any plant or
skilled labor in New Zealand being made
available,” and “it was found to be im-
possible to purchase plant in Australia
at all, or in overseas countries at earlier
than 18 months to two years for de-
livery.” So the co. decided to have mill-
ing plant planned and built in Australia ;
but the ironworkers’ and engineers’ strikes
have “disastrously delayed construc-
tion,” which is in progress.
As for the terms on which the timber is
to be milled and sold, it is considered
these “could be arranged as between the
lot-holders and the co. at a later date.”
On the strength of these proposals, lot-
holders concerned are asked to give the
co. a blank cheque in the following form:
I have considered the plans formulated
for the utilisation of the fire-killed timber.
I consent to the proposed plan to mill and
sell as much of the fire-killed timber as is
practicable.
The co. has had ample time in which to


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys,
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.
Collins
Austra-
—Advt,
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Letterpress & Offset Printers
Lithographic Printers
Typographers
Monotype & Linotype Operators
Steel and Copper Engravers
Copperplate Printers
Die Stampers, Embossers
Pns)TO Process Engravers
Envelope & Carton Manufacturers
Stereotypers
Rubber Stamp Manufacturers
Rulers, Bookbinders, Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists & Illuminators
Advertising Creators and
Counsellors :: Publishers
Engineers
Systems and Office Equipment
Wrappings and Twine
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
jACK-SOiy
OSUUJVAN. /
vtara . * AJ
MARK
BRISBANE
I
i«iu
e fra
c.-
.va>-
y&te tit ait
H FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
In
*Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Ml ■ ■ I—l
&
&
&VJr,
ftb.V,
m
«
CO’nsf 'TtlCt'i
rfUt Soi&eA s/uu^tcr//
That afternoon stubble is embarrassing and unnec-
essary. Your morning shave Gem keeps you
clean all day and right through the evening. Save your
pride and your skin with Gem.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
GEM
dfg
dfg
df
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
RAVAGED EUROPE
NEEDS YOUR HELP!
We appeal to you in the name of Humanity to help
relieve the terrible distress in the occupied and liberated
countries of Europe.
Millions are on the verge of starvation and living under
the most appalling conditions in ravaged, wartorn towns
and villages.
Huge sums are required for the purchase of food,
medicines, clothing, blankets, footwear, and many other
necessities of life, of which vast territories of Europe
are practically bare.
Please give us your help, and help quickly, to prevent
mass starvation and epidemics.
We shall do the rest and allocate the relief impartially
where the need is greatest.
THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
(| QUAKERS)
INTERNATIONAL RELIEF COMMITTEE
in collaboration with the
OCCUPIED EUROPE RELIEF SOCIETY
Please forward your donations to
THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
N.S.W.: 119 Devonshire St., Sydney. Vic.: 20 Russell St.,
Melbourne. S.A.: c/o Mr. George Hufchesson, Box 779 G.P.0.,
Adelaide. W.A.: c/o Mr. J. H. Crosland, Albany Rd., Gosnells.
Q’LAND: c/o Mrs. H. F. Jones, Thozel Rd., Nth Rockhampton,
or Miss Kate Sauer, 8 Balaclava St.. Woolloongabba. TAS.; c/o
Mrs. Ruth Erskine, Burdoc, Rosetta. N.T.: Box 48, Alice Springs.
formulate its financial proposals in con-
nection with milling and selling and to
put them before the lot-holders con-
cerned, but here it has failed.
Lot-holders are unorganised and unin-
corporated, and therefore unable U> speak
and act as a single body. Many* of them
have never seen a copy of the trust deed,
and therefore have no certain knowledge
as to what extent, if any, the trustee might
be empowered to act for them. Provided
it fully carries out the terms of its con-
tract with lot-holders, all money handed
over by the co. to the trustee in terms of
the contract belongs to the co., not lot-
holders.
The whole position calls for early
action by the Victorian Government,
which should pass legislation providing
for incorporation of lot-holders and for
appointment of an independent tribunal
to arrange terms and conditions as be-
tween lot-holders and the cos. for con-
version and marketing of the forest pro-
ducts and other matters. Such a course
was taken by the Maoriland Government
with considerable advantage to bond-
holders in N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
Tin output in Malaya steadily increased
last year. For the final quarter of 1946
the figure was 3008 tons, compared with
5424 tons for the preceding nine months.
Of the 3008 tons, gravel pumping ac-
counted for 990, dredging 859, dulang-
washers 553 and hydraulic workings 224.
The number of mines in production grew
until the coal crisis hit the industry in
December last. There were then 216 tin
concerns operating, of which 102 were
gravel pumping, 23 hydraulic sluicing, 18
dredging, one opencast, six miscellaneous,
and 66 small holdings were worked with-
out machinery. Owing to the strike in
Malayan collieries and consequent cut in
the supply of electric current, tin produc-
tion for the first quarter of 1946 is ex-
pected to be less than for the preceding
quarter.
* * * *
“Towersite” on Queensland State Bat-
tery charges:—
The Venus State Battery (N-Q-)> worked
nearly to a standstill and then idle through
manpower shortage, has been partly re-
conditioned and changed from steam to
electric drive. The crushing section has been
hired on tender to Paul Millican, who earned
out the reconditioning. Jhe cyaniding section,
also on tender, remains in the hands of Ike
Douglas. Crushing charges range from 15s. od.
to 195., according to the size of the parcel.
Cyaniding charge is 19s. 6d. a ton, and a per-
centage of the value of the gold contents, less
this charge, is paid straight out to the owner.
Percentages are 75 up to sdwts., 80 over
sdwts. to lOdwts., and 85 over lOdwts., gold
being valued at £8 16s. per oz. fine. These
cyaniding figures apply in the absence of com-
petition. Tailings, normally sold by tender,
are run into pits, and then treated by vat
percolation. The Prospectors’ Association is
in early with a complaint about the charges
At Cracow (Q.), according to one re-
port, the department is subsidising the public
crushing co. 2s. per ton up to 5000 tons, and
also paying the prospector a subsidy ss. per
ton on ore under lOdwts. Hopes are that the
practice will spread and include other min-
erals. South Aus. State battery charges for
both crushing and cyaniding range from 10s.
to 17s. 6d. a ton, with a redaction of 2s. 6d.
a ton on parcels over 25 totis, and treat free
first parcels up to 25 tons from new mines.
Charges in W.A. are much the same,
with a transport subsidy ranging up to 12s. 6d.
per ton. South Aus. charges on small parcels
are met by a recovery of 2dwts. (fine) gold per
ton. Venus (Q.) requires 4dwts. per ton, even
on parcels over 50 tons. On the other hand,
Queensland prospecting allowances have been
increased to 30s. per week for single and 50s.
per week for married men.
* ♦ * •
The price of Wiluna shares hardened
in London on news from Kalgoorlie that
an early start is to be made with develop-
mental work on the Mt. Charlotte group.
Men and plant are to be brought from
Wiluna for this work. Lake View and
Gold Fields Australian are associated
with Wiluna in the venture. The same
three cos., which are also jointly interested
in the Porphyry mine on the North Cool-
gardie field, have been granted six
months’ extension of their option over
this property from March 31.
« * * •
Yankee-controlled Big Bell, a gold pro-
ducer of renown, near Cue (W.A.), hopes
to draw another auriferous prize, on the
neighboring Meekatharra field, where it
holds options over large areas, including
the Fenian, Marmont and Ingliston mines,
A lot of wealth was taken out of these
properties in the past. Big Bell proposes
to make a geological survey, do some
diamond-drilling and install a pilot plant
to treat a trial parcel of 10,000 tons of
ore.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas (W.A.) is
negotiating for a Commonwealth loan to
rehabilitate plant and machinery and do,
further development on the White Hope
mine, south of Kalgoorlie, in the Hamp-
ton Plains area. Co. is issuing to share-
holders, on a one-for-ten basis, 50,000 of
its holding of Blue Specs at 2s. 3d. a
share. The board feels that raising of
more money in this way will obviate the
necessity for calls during the develop-
ment programme.
* * * *
Exemption from labor conditions has
been granted to five more De females
Westralian goldmining cos. by the Kal-
goorlie Warden. They are Australian
Mining and Industrial Finance, Ltd., Sand
Queen-Gladsome, Ltd., Riverina, Ltd.,
Woolgar, Ltd., and North Kalgurli
United, Ltd. Applicant said the cos.
were being liquidated, and exemption was
required to protect the interests of share-
holders. He claimed that North Kal-
gurli had spent £92,756, Riverina £62,768,
Sand Queen-Gladsome £156,123, and
Woolgar £10,851. No expenditure was
given for Australian Mining and Indus-
trial Finance, Ltd.
* * • •
Wandering Hansel Mundy, N.L., has
abandoned another goldmining option,
this time at Belgravia, a suburb of Kal-
goorlie (W.A.). One of the blocks in-
cluded the old Devon Consols mine. In
the past 35 years the co. has probably
held options on more auriferous duds
than any other mining co. in Australia.
It is long overdue for a turn-up.
* * * *•
Two luckless and now-idle Adelaide-
controlled Westralian goldmining cos.,
Slavin’s Block 8 and White Hope West,
issued accounts for 1946 the other day.
The former lost £l9, leaving £562 in hand,
and the latter made a profit of £2, and
showed a credit of £903. Both were
formed during the Hampton Plains boom
in 1921.


c
FLY...By “Kangaroo” Service
0 Services Weekly
via
Sydney Bowen
Darwin Sourabaya
—Singapore Rangoon
Calcutta Karachi
Bahrein Basra
Cairo Augusta
Marseilles London.
By Hythe Flying Boat and
Lancastrian Mail Plane. 1
Qcmtab
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
in association with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
SUNDRY SHOWS
"VOLPONE."
Doris Fitton’s Independents are play-
ing Jonson’s “Volpone” at their North
Sydney threatre, and playing it so well
that the rush 'on the box office looks like
a queue for an unlimited supply of
cigarettes at half-price. It’s heartening to
see —both the play and queue. The play
because it’s an excellent comedy, the
queue because it has been left to people
like Doris Fitton’s Independents, May
Hollinworth’s Metropolitans and other
repertory or “little” theatres to keep the
stage alive in Sydney. Because they’re all
doing a fine job and because their exist-
ence —and the existence of the living stage
in Australia —is a continual struggle for
such things as accommodation, support,
members, audiences and a dozen other
factors, the best thing that actors, pro-
ducers, managers and the rest of ’em can
see is an audience ganged up and almost
fighting for admission.
The history of the Independents is a
fair sample of the difficulties confronting
the Australian theatre, and, with it, Aus-
tralian playwrights. Doris Fitton was the
founder, and for 12 years the Independents,
as an amateur concern, have presented
a fine variety of Greek, Elizabethan,
eighteenth-century and modern plays at
various addresses in Sydney. One of their
greatest needs—and the greatest need of
all the “little theatres” —was their own
playhouse. They got it in 1939 at North
Sydney just over the bridge. The move
was risky. The war and the change of
address outside the city itself meant a
severe drop in membership. But the
theatre made out, working continually to
improve its building, stage, its audiences
and, of eburse, its players. In its 17 years
it has presented 170 full-length plays, in-
cluding the first production of 18 by
Australian writers. Their current season,
an “international festival of classical
plays,” is typical of what the Indepen-
dents are doing, and their current play,
ths fifth of the series, is typical of the
way they are doing it.
There is, incidentally, another hearten-
ing thing about the queues ganged up at
the Independent. It’s an object lesson to
those who would censor anything in art
that incurs their personal dislike. “Vol-
pone,” being an Elizabethan comedy,
naturally has a healthy coarseness about
it, and, of course, a “Disgusted Playgoer”
and an “Also Disgusted” turned up in
“S. M. Herald” correspondence columns
suggesting, even, that a well-intentioned
police constable should be sent along to
decide whether the work of Ben Jonson,
first played in 1605-06, is fitting matter
to be presented in 1947 to playgoers in-
terested enough to wend their way to the
“little theatres” to see worth-while plays.
The would-be censors can never realise
that a play that has lasted 300 years has
more than they can see in it and that all
that their kind of criticism can do is to
swell the audiences —it’s not unlikely that
a leavening of the crowd waiting to see
“Volpone” would never have heard of it
but for “S.M.H.’s” correspondence
columns.
But it has always been like that—
coarseness on its own or for its own sake
dies as quickly as last week’s smutty joke ;
art withstands practically anything and
endures and flourishes under attack which
is, after all, a sign of interest. Shak-
spfcare, Rabelais, Balzac, Boccaccio, Field-
ing, Chaucer and the rest of them
would, if they could, laugh as loudly and
heartily in their coffins as they did during
their lives at the efforts of those who
have tried to suppress them. Jonson, for
instance, went to prison for his part with
Nashe in the now-lost “Isle of Dogs,”
but it did him no harm then and none
since. In 1597 the Lud Mayor of London
wrote from the city to the council asking
for the playhouses to be suppressed:
They are a special cause of corrupting
their youth, containing nothing but unchaste
matters, lascivious devices, shifts of cozen-
age and other lewd and ungodly practices,
being so as that they impress the very
quality and corruption of manners which
they represent, contrary to the rules and
art prescribed for the making of comedies
even among the heathen, who used them
seldom and at certain set times, and not
all the year long as our manner is. Whereby
such as frequent them, being of the base
and refuse sort of people or such young
gentlemen as have small regard of credit
or conscience, draw the same into imitation
and not to the avoiding the like vices which
they represent
Even in those times there was “nothing
new” about the Lud Mayor’s complaipt,
and the same theme has been harped on
ever since. But what a squeak it is com-
pared with the blasts from the giants and
the theatre they wrote for, and what,
thank heavens, a negligible effect it has
had on- the theatre!
Still, however futile its final effect,
censorship is one of the many things
against which the stage and those inter-
ested in it must be continually on the
alert. The Independents’ presentation of
“Volpone” is the last thing to be
threatened with it. It’s an excellent
comedy, good, rich and strong. Pepys,
after seeing it for the first time, wrote
“An excellent play ; the best, I think, I
ever saw.” There may be more caricature
than characterisation, but what cari-
cature! Vigorous, colorful, almost
vital. And, anyway, don’t both
the plots and people of most comedies,
Elizabethan and present day, gener-
ally verge on caricature? And Jon-
son’s play—or Dr. Silberman’s adap-
tation of Stefan Zweig’s version of it —
with its unflagging gusto and energy
has more “plot” and meat in its
and hatching than a dozen modern bed-*
room comedies.
John Cameron, as Volpone, the vigor-
ous scoundrel who feigns approaching
death to extort money, gold and women
from the would-be heirs who x hover
around his death bed, is magnificent. The
essence of rascality and comedy. His
“parasite,” -the nimble witted Mosca who
executes his master’s plotting, is played
just as well by John Faassen. The three
presumptive heirs Voltore, Corvino and
Corbaccio are played with similar fine
gusty spirit by David Ratnfer, Desmond
Rolfe and John Clarke; the excellent
Charles Caspersonn, as a Judge of Venice,
and the always versatile Pamela Bromley-
Smith, as Columba, the wife who just
escapes being delivered to Volpone, could
not, it seemed, have played their roles
better. And the same can be said of the
rest of an excellent cast.
Sydney Art Shows.
Time was when a Contemporary Art
Society’s show would evoke some emo-
tion, if only of a violent and combative
nature, but the current exhibition at the
Sydney Education Department Galleries
is innocent of either surprises or sensa-
tions. Everything tends, on the whole,
to a dead-flat level.
But if there are no fireworks there is
at least one excellent imitation of the
exterior of a Chinese cracker, color-
ing and rigid figures, which on close ex-
amination take on the pseudo-Byzantine,
lifeless peculiarity of Justin O’Brien’s
paintings. Practically everything in the
exhibition seems strongly “influenced” —
mainly by “modern” painters who by
now, even in Sydney, must be considered
somewhat long in the tooth. So it is not
surprising to learn that “Annunciation”
was painted not by Justin O’Brien, as even
Mr. O’Brien might suppose at a hasty
glance, but by Peter Dodd, who, pre-
sumably, is strongly O’Brien-influenced.
And there is, perhaps, a profound and
valuable moral in this. It is possible that
the majority of artists exhibiting at the
Contemporary Art Society’s show could,
if they choose, paint exactly like each
other. And there is evidence that the
tendency is widespread. James Cowie’s
“Cafe Society” is Dobell-influenced. It
might almost be a Dobell, one of the
lighter Dobells. And Tiber Wiener, with
“The Yellow Clown” and “The Village,”
although he comes a long way behind
Orban, is obviously similarly influenced,
although superficially.
R. Balson’s two “Constructive Paint-
ings” are good studies in tone and would,
with their simple patterns and warm
coloring, make excellent designs for
kitchen linoleums. Bernard Hesling’s sad
and solemn tiger, although it bears a
strong resemblance to the great family
of comic-strip animals, at least stands out
from the general run of exhibits. Sylvia
A. Rapley’s “Carnival,” light-hearted and
slight, is remarkable for a pool of light
outside a door, and both Margaret Olley
and M. Cilento have claims to considera-
tion apart from the general level. Mar-
garet Olley’s “Landscape” has a rather
theatrical violence about it, combined
with a kind of stammer in technique,
which misses the mark of expression. But
her figures in “Woman Resting With
Child” have a sculptural quality, power
and solidity, though no beauty. M.
Cilento has power in her “Landscape,”
luminosity and some drama. Roland
Wakelin, departing from his usual style,
has painted a ferry scene which in inspira-
tion, but not in treatment, brings to mind
“The Last of England.”
Loudon Sainthill, who has an exhibi-
tion at the Macquarie Galleries, is a
much more ardent experimenter whose
creations are odd, and fanciful, but
seldom pleasing.
There is a spurious, nightmare kind of
statement about his figures, and in the
oil, “Casino Palace Hotel, Port Said,”
that building is lurid, the sky green,
and the landscape convulsed in the
colored dismay which is part of the con-
temporary convention. “Amphitryon 38”
has the advantage of a border, in
which one may rediscover that the human
nose is not as Mr. Sainthill would
have it.
Boyd Neel's Orchestra.
Three impressions immediately stood
out on first acquaintance with the Boyd
Neel String Orchestra: the balance
maintained between the four sections;
the co-ordination between the 18 players
and the conductor ; and the fascinating
volatility of the leader, Frederick
Grinke,
At his first concert in the Sydney Town
Hall Boyd Neel opened with Handel’s
Concerto Grosso Op. 6 No. 1. The two
violins and the ’cello which comprise the
solo voices stood out against the rest of
the strings, and their embellishment of
the principal themes of the work was the
essence of vivacity. Similarly in Mozart’s
Divertimento in D (K 136), the gaiety of
the final presto movement was never over-
expressed.
Of the eleven movements of Benjamin
Britten’s Variations on a Theme by
Frank Bridge (Op. 10), three reached a
good standard of musical intelligence,
which is a fair average for this composer.
Dvorak’s Serenade for Strings in E
Major, Op. 22, a veritable flood of lilting
melody, brought out all the tonal rich-
ness which the orchestra has at its com-
mand.
Warwick Braithwaite.
The Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
fired the opening gun of the 1947
bombardment (which promises to be a
major uproar) with Warwick Braithwaite,
the bearded Maoriland conductor, at the
controls. It was a curiously-mixed explo-
sion. The complicated rhythms of the
Bach D minor concerto (with Vera Brad-
ford at the piano), a sober and exquisitely
calculated piece of music, came between
the light, flighty and colorful muse of
Berlioz in the “Benvenuto Cellini” over-
ture and Cesar Franck’s “Accursed
Hunter.” The tally-hoing of the maddened
count struck a strange note, and was
almost terrifying coming after the Bach.
It was given a splendid and vigorous per-
formance, but there was some hesitation
in the concerto until it reached its climax
in a lengthy and difficult solo passage in
which Miss Bradford revealed musician-
ship of a high order. Hastiness in re-
hearsal may have caused the slight lapse
of memory on the part of the soloist, who
at one stage borrowed his score from the
conductor, who couldn’t get it back
quickly enough; but there was no evi-
dence of lack of preparation in the Sym-
phony No, 4 of Brahms, which ended
the evening in a suave cloud of melody
and sweetness.
Ninon Vallin.
Sydney concertgoers rarely hear sing-
jn g 0 f suc h artistry as that of Ninon Val-
Hn, who opened her Australian seasonal
T ° wn HalP hls e „ nt ,0 ?.
tenor Georges Thill showed how ugly
d l6 French language is when badly sung;
Ninon Vallin demonstrated how beautiful
h can be,
O n h er opening group, a fifteenth-
century French air, Rameau’s “Accourez
Riante Jeunesse,” Martini’s
D’Amour” and Suzann’s aria from The
Marriage of Figaro,” the singer could
have been classified as a mezzo ; this im-
pression was confirmed in the Bizet
section of the second group. She
gave a magnificent impassioned rendi-
tion of the Habanera from “Carmen.”
It was not until the final numbers, Grieg’s
“A Dream,” the Mimi’s Farewell Song
from “Boheme” and the “One Fine Day”
from “Madame Butterfly” that Nmoc
Vallin soared into the realms of the pure
lyric soprano. Henri Penn was the efli-
cient accompanist.


No. 7 of Series
Snapshots ...
, 111
) n
ft
JH
m 3
m «
■ m
it
PHI
JE
I
MPgHM!
1
mm
UIITATCH for the dicky bird!” The camera-
|| shutter clicks and in that instant light reflected
from the object being photographed pierces the lens
on to a strip of celluloid ccfeted with a film of gela-
tine containing silver salts. When this film is
treated with chemicals known as “developers” a
black deposit of metallic silver forms wherever light
has touched. From the untouched parts the silver
salts can be dissolved away by sodium thiosulphate,
or "hypo.” This leaves a "negative” of the portrait
or scene, the main light-feflecting surfaces being
represented by the blackest deposits. When the film
is placed over a sheet of paper also treated with an
emulsion of silver salts and this is exposed, deposits
come where there were no deposits on the film and
a true print or photograph is secured.
Celluloid, silver salts, “developers” and
"hypo” are all provided by the British
chemical industry.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates
IL-21-16
» '
Spotting Notions
SPORTIN NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
REDQ MILL RUM.
Not even the delightful weather could recom-
punt” “for thfgrief and pain they mos y
offered at Randwick on Samrday a City
Tattersall’s Club meeting. Though on paper
the programme seemed strewn with pitfalls for
backers; 34,000 attended and were duly put
through the mill.
Probably the most disastrous event was the
Club Handicap, in which Lady Mane started
an odds-on favorite and finished last m a
field of five. Though it was a 10-furlongs
iace and Lady Marie has usually won her races
from behind, H. Darke had the mare going
smartly from the start to wrest the lead irom
a noted front runner in Buzz Off. L e °sffi s clear
of the others, this pair cut at each other until,
with half a mile to go, Lady Mane showed
signs of having had enough. Both in lact
had had enough, and it was left to the ex-
Melbourne galloper Rimfire (G. Podmore) to
come through for a very easy win. Huamight
and Buzz Off filled the places.
An inquiry into the running of Lady Marie
was opened and adjourned to enable books
to be examined. Actually it was surprising that
Lady Marie should have been quite sucn a
hot favorite; she hasn’t run a decent race
for ages.
After suffering a severe bleeding attack .at
Randwick recently, the Titan gelding Tactician
appears now to have struck form. With only
7.4, less 41b. allowance for apprentice 1.
Mullane, he made hacks of the sprinters
engaged in Saturday’s Gus Mooney Stakes.
It was Tactician all the way, with Earl Pentheus
running his usual honest race to finish second
ahead of the country galloper Golden Empire,
who will do better on a firmer track.
The McCurley stable, which turned out
Tactician, almost made it a double with Fort
Denison (T. Mullane) in the mile Welter. The
Midstream mare looked the winner until joined
in the last couple of strides by Castlereagh.
The judge left it to the camera, which showed
Castlereagh (D. Weir) in front by the twitch
of a whisker; Roatom was third. Unusual
to see two apprentices fighting out such a good
finish.
Curiously, some of those who were loudest
in demanding the introduction of the camera
are now proclaiming that it favors the horse
on the outside. The human eye might favor
the outside horse in a close finish, but to say
that the camera does so is sheer nonsense.
The Three-year-old Handicap of seven fur-
longs went to the Beaupartir-Fernstone geld-
ing Beau Pebble, who scored his first success
as a two-year-old at the corresponding meet-
ing last year, and has won only one race be-
tween times, also at Randwick. With Mc-
Growdie up, Beau Pebble finished strongly from
the distance to stall off Dark Marne and
Concise.
An interesting runner in the Youthful Stakes
was Lysander, a full brother to Shannon.
Lysander, who fetched 4000 guineas at the
1946 yearling sales, did not manage to fill
a place but nevertheless ran a tiptop race and
should certainly win before long. Coronation
Lad (G. Moore) won the race very easily from,
the favorite Chronicle, a promising Ajax colt,
but the judge left it to the camera to sift the
third placegetter from a bunch of four. Kar-
della, a Hellespont colt having his first run,
received the verdict. One to remember was
Royal Reward, finishing better than anything in
the race.
Strange to relate, since in every way it was
a bookmakers’ day; the only winning favorite
was Coalition, a singularly unhandsome Nuffield
gelding owned by a bookmaker —W. A. Mc-
Donald. Coalition accounted for Survivor,
Cadilly and others in the Novice first division.
The second division went to the maiden gal-
loper Bell Rock, from the same stable as, and
a full brother to, Turn Again. Dryad and
Lacomar were closest, but making no impres-
sion at the finish.
The tactics successfully employed by Badger
on Blue Legend in the Doncaster have evidently
aroused Sydney jockeys to a consciousness of
the firmer going available wide out on a heavy
track. It was amusing to see them heading
for the outer, with mixed success, on Saturday.
Thompson started it by taking Coalition right
out as they entered the straight in the first
race; quite successful. When they rounded
the home turn in the following race half the
field headed straight for the leger fence, where-
upon G. Moore brought Ccyonation Lad
through the gap thus presented and, hugging
the rails, won comfortably.
j* * * *
The transport strife in Melbourne led to
the Mentone meeting being transferred to
Caulfield, and though no special trams were
run there was a surprisingly good attendance
of 25,000. By the time the last race came
round most of those present were wishing the
fixture had been transferred to Echuca.
As has happened more than once before,
despite those who hold that two-year-old form
is hard to follow, the only successful favorite
at Caulfield was Carnage (9 to 4) in the Avon
Two-year-old Handicap. And strangely, as
happened at Randwick, the sole winning favorite
was owned by a bookmaker —Dave Price.
G. Bougoure gave the Shakuni colt the run
of the race, which he had won whenever he
chose to go to the front. Two and a half
lengths to Tumult and a further three lengths
to Field Dress, an aptly-named filly by Enfield
from Wrapper.
At the surprisingly good price of 7 to 1,
the Burlesque gelding Real Guy (S. Burgoine)
brought his winning record to five in a row
by downing Scaramouche and Don Pedro over
12 furlongs. Though his ill-behavior at the
barrier of late suggests that he has turned
sour, Don Pedro did seem a class above the
field, and started at 11-to-8 favoritism. After
he had finished well, but too late, stewards
held an inquiry which resulted in explanations
being accepted all round.
• - • • » •
The only other winner that anyone might
reasonably have supported was Gilwell (S.
Martin) in the Three-year-old Handicap of a
mile. Bookies were taking no risks on the
event, having seven of the runners at 7 to 1
or under. The three placegetters came frpm
this number, margins of a length separating
Gilwell, Our Love and Meadower.
In other events it was a case of “Heavens,
what next!” Esquire (K. Rhimes), at 33 to 1,
won the Hurdle from a fancied pair in Prince
Danilo and Night Life. Also at 33 to 1,
Grand Legend (W. Beresford) downed the
favorite, Invasion Chief, and Law List over
six furlongs, while the Welter went to Single-
script (J. Gilmore) at fifteens, with Star Shell
and Solitas next best.
* • * •
For RosehilT (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Maiden Stakes (colts and geld-
ings) ; Karachi, 1; Chronicle, 2; Royal Reward,
3. Maiden Stakes (fillies): Million, 1; Santa
Maria, 2; Compact, 3. Encourage: Coalition,
1; Mt. Hpwitt, 2; Bell Rock, 3. Flying:
Tactician, l; Prince Consort, 2; Brazier, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: Two Grand, 1; Air Flare,
.2; Royal Peer, 3. Welter: Concise, 1; Mael-
strom, 2; Clipper, 3.
“That’s the idea—keep his attention till I get in close."
Run on a dreadful track and in vile weather,
the Aintree Grand National went to the Irish-
bred Caughoo, owned by a Dublin jeweller,
■J. J. Macdonald, whose brother, a vet., trained
the winner. Bought as an unbroken two-year-old
for £5O, Caughoo is now rising nine. He’s by
the Son in Law stallion Within the Law and
out of the Vencedor mare Silverdale. Winning
in brilliant style and looking remarkably fresh
after it, Caughoo downed a compatriot, Lough
Conn, by 20 lengths, Kami being third and
Prince Regent fourth, anchored in the mud with
his 12.7. The books who lay the odds against
any particular runner completing the course had
to pay out on 18 of the 57 starters. Caughoo
started at 100 to 1 and the two lucky people
who correctly picked the tote double of Lincoln-
shire and Grand National collected a divvy of
£8899 10s. for the five bob.
# » * ♦
St. Fairy, who has a proved liking for
Adelaide courses, heads the list of weights in
both Adelaide Cup (2 miles, May 14) and
Goodwood Handicap (6 furlongs, May 10). In
the long *r&ce he has 9.12, and the nearest is
Don Pedro with 9st., then Rainbird (8.12),
Sydney James (8.6), Knockarlow (8.3). In the
short race St. Fairy is at 10.2, with Royal
Geqt 11b. less; Gay Queen 8.7, Ava 8.2.
* * * *
Brisbane Amateur Turf Club is again putting
up £lO,OOO for its big sprint run at Doomben
in July. It’s to be known this .year as the
Doomben Ten Thousand; distance, seven fur-
longs less 93yds. Run a week after the Ten
Thousand, the Doomben Cup of 11 furlongs
less 22yds. is also to carry the same prize as
last year, £5OOO, and a £2OO trophy.
* * ♦ *
Though without electric trains and with
trams and buses cut to a minimum,
about 100,000 Melbournites managed to
get to the six opening matches of the
V.F. League on Saturday, the largest
number turning up to see Essendon,
16.23, beat South Melbourne, 10.8. The
crowds came by car, taxi, sulky, lorry,
push-bike and boot, mostly good-hum-
ored because of the novelty of it, though
the strikers can’t expect the good humor
to last. If Shakspeare had lived in Mel-
bourne he would not have written, “Who
steals my purse,” etc., but “Who does
me out of football on a Saturday, he
risks a bitterer fate than came to
Caesar.” There were no surprises in the
other matches. Collingwbod, Carlton,
Footscray, Geelong and Richmond were
the winners.
* * * *
With the All Blacks coming and then
the side for the trip to Britain to be
picked, Sydney Rugby Unionists are very
much on their toes. So far it seems that
there may be a bit too much value given
to dash and not enough to defence; and
the dash mightn’t look quite so good
when it comes up against the hard de-
fenders of the All Blacks. First of the
selecting trials for what’s ahead will be
the City v. Country clashes at the Show-
ground on Anzac Day ; Dr. P. Hardcastle
(East) captaining City I and first choice
to captain against the All Blacks and on
tour.
From the two premiership clashes so
far Northern Suburbs and St. George
have come through unbeaten,. North on
Saturday downing Manly 17-12 and St.
George having an 18-14 victory over
Gordon, mainly decided by goals. The
day’s surprise was the defeat of Rand-
wick by Eastern Suburbs, though it was
close going, 15-13. University got there
just as narrowly, 18-17 over Western
Suburbs; Parramatta downed Eastwood,
9-6.
* * * *
Wesley, Geelong College and Mel-
bourne Grammar turned out on the Yarra
for the final of the Victorian Public
Schools Head-of-the-River, rowed on
Saturday, and the big crowd saw a fine
race, the three crews pretty well abreast
most of the way. At the finish Wesley
had less than half a length to the good
from Geelong, with Grammar not much
further back.
* * * *
For no less than the eighth time this
season young John Treloar clocked 9 3-5
sec. for the 100yds. in an ejdiibition race
at Lindfield Oval '(Sydney) on Saturday,
There had been heavy rain all through
the week, so the track must have been
on the heavy side. Definitely Treloar
needs only the right conditions and a little
pushing to touch the world record for
the hundred. So far not many Australian
Olympic prospects have shown up, but
the tall Sydneysider looks the goods,
* * * *
Averaging 73£ strokes for the four
rounds of the £lOOO Ampol tournament
at the Australian (Sydney), H. Pickworth,
294, beat W. J, Bolger by a stroke, with
Eric Cremin third. Cremin began with a
71, but in the gale on the second day
crashed with an 85 and only a record 66
last round pulled him into third money.
Pickworth, Australian open champion, had
76, 77, 72'and 69, earned by splendid
golf and ability to get out of trouble.
Bolger played his usual consistent game
for 73, 76, 76, 70.
* * * *
“Old Chap”: The Australian abo.
cricketers, to whpm Plum Warner makes
brief reference in his book Lords 1787-
1945 (R.P., 9/4/’47), were selected from
the Lake Wallace tribe by W. R. Hay-
man and G. W. Graham, and underwent
15 months’ training, both to teach them
the game and to civilise them to white-
fella methods. England’s cold weather
and the rich food which isn’t there now
brought on a lot of sickness and spoiled
the tour. Still, the team’s record was
fairly good: 14 won, 14 lost, 19
drawn.
* * * *
Built up as a testing of Bruce Wood-
cock for a meeting with Joe Louis, the
British heavyweight champion’s engage-
ment with Joe Baksi ended in the seventh
round, when the ref. called a halt and
the battered Woodcock, who was down
for “nine” in the first minute and more
often than not thereafter, went to hospital
with a broken jaw. Still, it might have
been worse—-he might have met the
other Joe.
* * * *
The style in which Ken Bailey (10.2)
stopped George Sands (10.6) at Leichhardt
suggested that Bailey could worry
Tommy Burns in a welter title scrap.
Sands wasn’t in it after the first round.
Bailey belted him with solid rights in
the second and outboxed and outfought
him in the third, at the end of which
Sands indicated a small gash on his left
eyelid and was happy to get but of it.
* * * *
Turned pro. after holding the Aus-
tralian amateur welter title, Archie
Kemp (9.7|) showed too much skill for
Jimmy McDonald (9.8|) at Melbourne
Stadium. It went the full 12 rounds, but
Kemp had it nicely on points.
« * * *
In their return encounter at Sydney
Stadium, Dave Sands (11.4-J-) evened his
account with cullud import Emory Jack-
son (11.5), but only just, Dave, with a
slight edge on Emory from the start, took
it narrowly on points. There’s since
been talk of them wanting Sands for
scraps in America ; he’d need to improve
a lot on this and other recent displays.


low to plan for
financial happiness
gdfdfgdf
When a man is young and married it is usual
for him to have his life assured in the interests of his
wife and children.
That is as it should be, bpt more is desirable-
While he is still young, every man ought to be using
the A.M.P. to make the most
of life.
He should be planning
(1) that, in the event of his
death, his wife shall be
reasonably protected; (2)
ftiat there will be money to
help his children get their
feet firmly on the ladder of
life, and (3) that his own
middle years and old age will
be happy and carefree.
The early years are the best years in which to lay
down such plans. The monthly outlay required for
such planning is much less than most people imagine.
Learn how other men are using the Society to enrich
their lives. Write today. Ask the nearest A.M.P.
office or representative to prepare a plan for you.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation
, SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, K.8.E., Chairman.
SYDNEY OSMOND, General Manager.
H. B. G. WALKER, Manager, New South Wales Branch.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
tin \ ' ' i
113 vmmm
fa aim a
a/ at m all
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS ;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. Y. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Safeguard your
dependents from losses
due to inexperience
few men have any actual experience
of Trust administration. Should they be-
come Executors and Trustees they are engulfed,
suddenly, in administrative procedure and tech-
nical problems with which they are not
familiar. They find, too, that a great deal of
time is demanded of them in this work.
A growing appreciation of these difficulties
is evidenced by the increasing number of men
who appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) as Executor and Trustee. By this
choice they safeguard their dependents from
inexperience, and assure to them the protec-
tion of a financially strong organisation
specially constituted for Estate management
and free from personal business distractions.
In this important role, Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited) provides the under-
standing of a friend and the collective
judgment of many trained minds.
Call or write for a copy of the Company’s booklet, “Your
Executor and Trustee,” which others have found most
helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE -
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Biverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District. Representative: F. T. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamvrorth.
Western District Representative: J. U. Mcßlroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
Business, Roĺery, Etc.
Should the £A Be Revalued?
For the last year or more recurrent
suggestions have come from certain
quarters, mainly importing interests, that
the value of the Australian pound (£A)
should be officially appreciated in terms of
the English pound (sterling). From other
quarters, in particular the Left wing of
Labor, has come the opposite suggestion,
namely, that devaluation of the £A in
terms of sterling would be more advan-
tageous. While appreciation could bring
limited and temporary advantages, the
possibility of it creating more problems
than it set out to solve is so great that
any prudent authority would hesitate to
take such actioriV Those who imagine
that solution of our immediate problems
lies in devaluation are at least 16 years
behind the times.
The precedent for appreciation 's the
upward valuation of the Canadian dollar
and Swedish krona about the middle of
last year. Both countries revalued their
currencies with the declared object of
preventing the rise in U.S. prices from
unduly influencing their internal price
levels, though the two countries are by
no means on the same footing—Canada’s
economic tie-up with the U.S. is fay closer
than Sweden’s. The move was pre-
mature, because prices, wages, production
and efficiency in the U.S., and everywhere
else, had not settled, nor have they done
so yet. Still, the suggestion that Aus-
tralia should follow the example in order
to lessen the impact of the rise in British
and U.S. prices upon the Australian cost
of living, and upon service of our over-
seas debt, continues to be made.
Technically we could revalue the £A
by anything up to 10 p.c. either side of
its present par value without consent of
the International Monetary Fund, of
which Australia is now a member. We
are in no difficulty over our balance of
payments, though dollars are scarce. And,
at the moment, Australian import of
British and American goods is limited
more by the capacity of manufacturers in
those countries tp produce and deliver
than by the level of prices What needs
to be remembered is that we pay for our
imports and service our overseas debt
from the proceeds of our exports. These
are subject to such a wide range of in-
fluences that the whole problem needs
to be approached in its long-term rather
than short-run aspect.
At the moment there is a sellers’ market
at high prices for practically all our
exports. That is because war created
huge economic vacuums which are still
absorbing these products. But what will
happen when the vacuums are filled?
Some shrinkage in the volume of demand
can be expected, competition will sharpen
and the tendency will be for prices to
ease. To appreciate the value of our
currency now would greatly accentuate
our problems in what looks like the'not-
too-distant future by having arbitrarily
reduced the value of our exports in terms
of our own currency. And, apart from
the rising cost of imports, our own in-
ternal costs, and therefore price levels.
“Quit stallin', mug; I've got y' covered!"
are climbing at an unhealthy rate. In
these circumstances the country cannot
afford to expose its export industries to
such a reduction of income. The danger
lies in profit margins in these industries
falling to a level that would threaten the
volume of production, or alternatively call
for heavy Government subsidy, and so
land us in Queer-street.
The complicated question of any altera-
tion in the value of our currency is also
interwoven with protective tariff duties
and the development of secondary indus-
tries. Since currency revaluation is less
flexible and has more of a sting in its
tail than tariff adjustments, the problem
qf the impact of rising overseas prices
upon Australia’s standard of living can
be best dealt with, at present, through the
machinery of the Customs.
As for devaluation, to depreciate the
external value of our currency at a time
when we can export to capacity would
simply amount to making a free gift to
foreign buyers, without any compensating
advantages. Also, it would eventually
accentuate the spiral of rising prices,
wages and costs, and would have unfor-
tunate psychological, if no other, reper-
cussions, because it would, in fact,
amount to an attack upon the export
trade of both Britain and America.
The equilibrium level of currency
values at the end of a world war presents
an almost insoluble problem. Trade has
begun to flow in new channels, for the
time being price has ceased to be the
determining factor in supply, and no-
where are wages, costs, prices and pro-
duction on an even keel, while labor
troubles have brought about shortages
and stoppages. Up to a point things
have to be allowed to work themselves
out. Those countries first to achieve
domestic stability, social and economic,
will fare best.
Car-hungry Maorilanders, who have to
pay up to £lOO more than Australians for
new cars in the now-popular, but inflated,
price range of £7OO to £BOO, have their
Government to thank for the hefty addi-
tion. Sales tax swallows up 20 p.c.
of the sum —and this after buyers have
been hit by import duties that start
with a gentle 5 p.c. on unassembled
British cars, rise to 15 p.c. dn built-
up British models, become pretty stiff on
Canadian makes, and are a crushing 72
p.c. on unassembled foreign, with, a
further 10 p.c. if anyone has the
effrontery to buy built-up cars from out-
side the Empire. But present-day prices.
which usually include a couple of hundred
at least for taxes, only whet appetites to
buy. Long lists of waiting orders with
distributors grow longer, and demand
grows keener under threats of further in-
creases of up to £5O in the prices of
some cars. In this car-hunger prices
seem to be the least of all worries. But
it’s a sore point with distributors that
they’re tied down to the same commis-
sion as in pre-war days on each car sold,
which means a cut in their profit from
about 22 p.c, to 8 p.c. A buyer
of a new car can make nearly that much
by turning it over to another owner at a
rise after a few weeks’ use.
* * ♦ *
Fulfilling its prospectus promise, Bruck
Mills (Aus.) has asked for and received
consent of the Attorney-General to pay
interest at 5 p.c. p.a. out of capital on
its £250,000 of 5 p.c. pref. money.
The price of these £1 shares, called to
15s. each, has strengthened to 175., or a
trifle better, yielding approx. 4.4 p.c.
Perhaps with an eye to the lower tax scale
next financial year, the board have chosen
early July for the first interest payment,
which will be pro rata according to the
amounts called up. Two additions have
been made to the board —R. J. Mc-
Arthur, legal adviser to the co. since its
inception, and L. S. Lee, who comes from
Canada to take charge of operations and
administration. Mr. Lee has been associ-
ated with Bruck Silk Mills in Canada
since it was established in 1921, and
recently became one of its vice-presidents.
During the war he was technical adviser
to the rayon administrator of the
Canadian Prices and Trade Board. The
pound ords., called to 10s., fetch 19s.
in the market.
* * * ♦
For the last half of 1946, A. G. Heal-
ing, Ltd., reports considerable expansion
of sales. Exes, were also considerably
higher, with a tendency to run at a
slightly faster pace than sales. The full
effects of the metal trades strike, which
is seriously interfering with production
.of several of the co.’s factories, will be
felt during the balance of the year. De-
spite this temporary setback, satisfactory
results are anticipated. The ords. get
their annual hand-out in one lump in
October. For the last four years the
rate has been steady at 10 p.c. and profits
have averaged 27.32 p.c.—the rate in
1946 was 34.45 p.c. Wide margins be-
tween earnings and distributions have
left ample for reserves, and the f.-p. 15s.
shares now have a net asset backing of
28s. 9d. In common with most other
stocks, the shares have firmed around 355.
6d., to yield 4{ p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
Recent announcement by Woolworths
(W.A.) of a new issue, one for four at
par, in no way reflects the policy of the
Capital Issues Board. Existing regula-
tions permit any co. to issue up to
£25,000 of ord. scrip in two years,
without Treasury consent. This issue
follows one of 1,116,499 ords. of ss. each,
one-for-four, at par, by the parent co.,
Woolworths, Ltd. (Sydney), for which
Treasury consent was obtained.


CONTINENTS
the
o
From the pen of a
prominent criminologist
come chronicles of real-
life crimes—the Jones
and Hulton case, Petiot,
the Paris sadist, etc., etc.
At all booksellers, 6/6
National Mutual’s Record Year
FEATURES FROM SEVENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT
Results from year ended 30th September, 1946.
NEW BUSINESS—AN ALL-TIME RECORD.
EXCERPTS FROM THE CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH.
In the course of his speech at the Annual Meeting of the National Mutual Life Association
of Australasia, Limited, held on 1st April, 1946, the Chairman, Sir Harold Luxton, said:—
A YEAR OF TRANSITION
The past year is commonly described as a
year of transition and resettlement. If to this
description there is added “reconstruction” —by
this I mean reconstruction in relation to
premises, equipment, methods and services—
then that is essentially what it has been for the
Association. The changeover in all these
respects, including the reabsorption of our re-
turned men, has demanded much thought, effort
and the exercise of patience on the part of our
Executive Officers, Branch Officials and Staffs
throughout the organisation. The object of this
reconstruction —which costs money—is to im-
prove working conditions and by the employ-
ment of mechanised and other modern methods,
to reduce costs and save time, to improve and
extend our services and generally to increase our
efficiency. In this connection I may remark that
our Officers who have returned to us after long
absences on National Service have settled down
to their normal. occupations remarkably well,
and have been of much assistance jin overcoming
the many difficulties that occur.
NEW BUSINESS—AT ITS HIGHEST
The outstanding feature of the year has been
the extraordinary increase in the amount of
New Life Assurances written by all Cpmpanies.
In Great Britain, for instance, New Life Assur-
ances were twice as great last year as in 1945,
and 60 per cent, greater than in the best pre-
war years. Here in Australia where a higher
level of production was maintained during the
war years the volume of New Business was over
50 per cent, greater than in 1945. Our own
over-all production rose from thirteen millions
to the relatively high total of over twenty mil-
lions in Sums Assured. When I speculated at
our rheeting two years ago upon the future of
our Association in the post-war era I did not
anticipate that such convincing evidence of the
need for our services would be forthcoming so
soon. Many reasons have been ascribed for the
remarkable increase—such as the necessity for
further protection to offset monetary deprecia-
tion, the accumulation of new assurances
deferred because of war service, superannuation
benefits required for men on service returning to
industry, completion of other schemes delayed
until peace came, the weight of money seeking
investment and so on. However, after making
full allowance for special influences, our experi-
ence has been that there is a widespread de-.
mand for more Life Assurance protection. Cer-
tainly when one contemplates the effect of taxa-
tion and the rising cost of living, particularly in
the case of our young married and professional
men, the need for family protection is readily
seen.
INCOME AND THE EFFECT OF CHEAP
MONEY
Our total net income derived principally, from
premium payments, and investment income rose
by £677,000 to £7,886,077. Interest earnings were
well maintained, the net rate earned on the As-
surance Fund at £3 14s. 2d. per cent, being only
Is. per cent, less than that for the previous year.
This is a very satisfactory result, but we must
not delude ourselves by regarding it as a mea-'
sure of probable future earnings. Our present
income is still substantially drawn from invest-
ments made when interest rates, were higher.
The funds so invested are for the most part sub-
ject to repayment at fixed dates, and conse-
quently to reinvestment at whatever return can
then be secured. It follows that if Govern-
ments continue to pursue a cheap-money policy
and force down still further the rate of remuner-
ation for the use of money—or even if it is held
at the present reduced level —the average rate
which w© can —or are permitted to —earn must
inevitably continue to fall. On this ground
alone there is good reason for taking a con-
servative view of future prospects when we come
to deal with the question of reserves. Whatever
may be said for and against “cheap money”
which is part and parcel of current economic
policy it can at best only be regarded, like
Bretton Woods, as an experiment the outcome
of which cannot yet be foreseen. It is, how-
ever, one which, as an authority has pointed out,
is arbitrary and inequitable in its effects and
creates difficulties for trustees and all con-
cerned with pension and provident funds.
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS AND
EXPENSES
. Payments to policyholders or their representa-
tives exceeded four million pounds. War
claims continue to come in, and for the year
amounted to £196,000. New Business expenses
were relatively slightly less than those of the
previous year, but on the other hand expenses
of management were appreciably higher. The
increased cost, not all of which is of a re-
current nature, was due to higher charges for
practically all supplies, equipment and services
necessary for the conduct of our affairs and to a
substantial increase in the amount disbursed for
salaries and wages arising from the resettlement
of ex-servicemen and cost-of-living increases at
various Branches.
THE BALANCE SHEET
We closed the year with an Assurance Fund
of £61,400,302, and the Balance Sheet shows
how this Fund, which is your secu»ty, is em-
ployed. There is no dead wood. That is a
happy position in these disturbed times.
THE ACTUARY’S REPORT
The results of the Investigation made in
accordance with the Articles of our Association
are set out in the Actuary’s Report which has
been adopted by the Board. The Assets. All
loans were found to be amply secured, specific
reserves being held against any loans in respect
of which the margin of security had fallen
below that normally required by the Board.
The Liabilities. The total Sums Assured (in-
cluding bonus additions) in force at the date of
Valuation amounted to £171,487,619. The
Policy reserves held in respect of all this busi-
ness, i.e., all the Association’s Assurance and
Endowment contracts, were placed on a 2\ per
cent, interest basis, with mortality for the Assur-
ances according to the rates of the Institute and
Faculty of Actuaries’ Assured Lives Table
(A1924-29). The Surplus. The total surplus
for the valuation period, 3 years, on the bases
indicated, was found to be £3,608,830, leaving,
after deduction of the cost of the bonuses
allotted at 30th September, 1944, and 30th Sep-
tember, 1945, an available net surplus of
£1,838,654.
ALLOCATION OF SURPLUS
In view of the uncertainty of the economic
and financial outlook and the absence of any
definite evidence That the continual reductions
of interest rates have reached their limit, our
Actuary recommended that £500,000 of the sur-
plus now disclosed be retained to provide addi-
tional security for the Association’s contracts.
Your Directors have decided to accept this
recommendation and to apply the balance of
surplus as follows; —
£1,100,000 to provide bonus additions to
Members’ policies upon an improved scale.
£138,654 as an \addition to the Invest-
ment Contingencies and Exchange Reserve.
£50,000 to Income Tax Reserve.
£50,000 to the Staff Superannuation
Trust Fund and to establish a Female Staff
Provident Trust Fund.
In determining the basis of valuation and in
making these allocations the Directors and
Management have followed the advice of our
founder, tendered to Members at the first In-
vestigation Meeting of our Association when he
said: “The main object of an Investigation is
to ascertain that sufficient funds are invested
to meet future claims, and to this the members
ought to give earnest heed; their motto should
be—‘First—ADEQUATE RESERVE FUNDS;
Then—A FAIR AND EQUITABLE DIVISION
OF THE SURPLUS.’ ”
The results of the Investigation are very grati-
fying and I hope will be received with satisfac-
tion.
LIFE OFFICES AND PUBLIC OPINION
A recent review of Life Assurance observed
that for better or worse politics now bear very
directly upon business of all kinds and upon
Life Assurance in particular. Members of the
Association are drawn from all sections of the
community, and they embrace every shade of
political thought. There are those among them
' who consider that it is our duty to comment
upon matters of public interest, social and
financial, which bear directly upon their in-
terests as policyholders or upon Life Assurance
Societies in the wider general sense. There are
others who hold, the contrary view and con-
sider that we ought to be entirely negative and
let whatever will happen; such complete stultifi-
cation, however, would create an impossible
position. Discussion, consultation and criti-
cism are necessary. However, it is our constant
care to avoid controversy so far as, possible by
limiting comment to observations of a construc-
tive character calculated to be of assistance in
crystallising public opinion in piatters directly
affecting our members as policyholders and our
services to the community. With this introduc-
tion there are two matfcrs to which I desire to
refer, namely National Pensions and Income
Tax Rebate on Life Assurance Premiums.
National Pensions: According to a recent Press
announcement the Federal Government was
contemplating the provisions of National Pen-
sions free of any means test. It was suggested,
rather vaguely, that the many private superannu-
ation trust funds, including those secured
through the medium of life assurance, would
in consequence be taken over or otherwise
compulsorily liquidated. It is difficult to con-
ceive that a Government would attempt such
an arbitrary interference with private * super-
annuation trusts.
However, official assurances reported in the
newspapers that no such interference would
occur are very welcome. Although it may not
be generally recognised, Life Assurance is the
genesis from which all national pensions plans
have developed. Life Assurance is a truly co-
operative movement without class or creed
among individuals to provide for their depen-
dants and old age, and being available to every-
body on equal terms is in fact truly democratic
in character. It has been well said that Life
Assurance is practical socialism of the best kind.
Great care should therefore be taken not to
damage the fabric of our great Australian
mutual insurance institutions. Any such damage
must affect adversely the millions of Australians
who are policyholders in these institutions. In
other countries such as England, the United
States and New Zealand, where National Pen-
sion Plans have been introduced, Life Assurance
and private pension trust funds to supplement
the National Schemes are actively encouraged.
Judging by the results, the people are more
conscious than ever of the benefits of Life
Assurance.
INCOME TAX REBATE
Income Tax Rebate on Life Assurance
Premiums: While encouragement has been
given to employers, through income-tax relief,
to assist in providing for the old age of their
employees, and much has been done in this
direction in recent years, the position of the
professional man, the farmer and other simi-
larly situated is by contrast unenviable. Par-
ticularly is this so with the professional man,
who generally has to undergo long years of
training and is left with a shortened period of
active earning capacity. After income tax has
been levied at present high rates the income left
can do little more than meet living expenses.
For him the income tax allowance in Australia
limited to premiums not exceeding £100 per
annum is totally inadequate to enable him to
make proper provision for his dependants or his
old age. There is, in fact, little financial attrac-
tion to many professions. The present allow-
ance compares very unfavourably with those
granted elsewhere, and we strongly urge the
Government to grant an increase in the allow-
ance on premiums! up to, say, £250 per annum
or some rational percentage of income.
In conclusion I must take the opportunity to
express our thanks to our field staffs for their
wonderful effort in securing for the Association
a record volume of New Business.
Ladies and Gentlemen, I have the honour to
move that the 77th Report and Accounts be
received, adopted and approved.
[All the above figures relate to “Ordinary”
Assurance business. The Association does not
transact Industrial Assurance.]
Conditions in the U.S.A.
From a Bulletin man in New York:
In the United States there are wide-
spread fears of a business setback, but
some “high-uppers” in the financial and
industrial world are using all possible in-
fluence to avert a depression or even a
“recession.” In Los Angeles and other
places on the west coast it is noticeable
that prices are already lower than in
Chicago and New York ; Los Amgeles in
particular got a great industrial boost
during the Pacific war, and its population
expanded astonishingly. Even the Holly-
wood film community, which makes a
practice of laying something by out of
its big salaries for the time when retire-
ment comes, is getting a little concerned
about investments in California. Be-
cause of its great war-time expansion
many Americans say Los Angeles will
feel first any pinch that is coming.
On the other side of the continent, in
Boston, a very visible slackening in the
demand for woollen goods is causing con-
cern, and eventually Australia may feel
some effect. Worsted mills are still work-
ing on a full-time double-shift basis, but
blankets and knitted woollens have been
overproduced. Boston is also concerned
about Government action in controlling
the price of domestic wool. With imports
of Dominion wool falling off, manufac-
turers in the U.S.A. are finding the home-
grown article uneconomic. It remains to
be seen whether this situation will stimu-
late imports of, say, Australian wool.
The mixed complexion of the U.S.
economic scene may be judged when it
is known that, in spite of all this un-
certainty, many manufacturers are show-
ing record profits. High profits being
earned in many quarters prompted
J.T. Straus, head of R. H. Macy and Co.,
the world’s largest department store, to
ask for a general reduction of profit
margins by manufacturers and retailers.
This was necessary, he said, in order to
bring costs and prices down ear!y*enough
to prevent a slump. He made the appeal
on Easter Saturday by full-page advertise-
ments in leading New York dailies, and
already New Yorkers were predicting that
spring sales would be seen along Fifth-
avenue weeks earlier than usual.
An economic development that has its
light as well as instructive side is the
story of the ball-point fountain pen. Tens
of thousands were sold at $l5 to $2O.
After a period in which ppinion on the
virtues of the various makes of bail-points
was highly controversial, Macy’s have
cut the price to 59 cents. Other places let
them go even more cheaply if you buy a
tube of shaving-cream, too. Certain
brands of bail-points are higher, but re-
duced greatly’ compared with original
prices.
Congress has before it a bill to outlaw
“strikes against the public, interest,” and
in view of what happened to John L.
Lewis it seems there’s “no kiddin’.”. The
Lewis incident greatly raised Truman’s
flagging prestige in the U.S.A., and the
present bill will, if adopted in its existing
form, make the closed shop a thing of the
past by giving non-unionists equal rights
of employment and prohibiting “second-
ary boycotts.”
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills, Ltd.,
formed in 1936 to turn out fine printing,
writing and typewriting papers from pulp
made from local timbers at Bur hie (Tas.),
is to lift nominal capital to £5,000,000 by
creation of 2,000,000 new £1 shares.
Subject to Treasury approval, those on
the register at May 17 are to be offered
1.600.000 of the new shares, one for
one, at par, thus doubling present paid
capital (£1,600,000). Of this issue 196,367
will go to Zinc Investments, Ltd. (paid
capital £250,000), which in turn will offer
them to its own shareholders, who will
have no right of renunciation in favor of
other persons. All whose names appear
on Associated’s register at May 17 will
be free to dispose of the rights as they
think fit. The extra money is wanted to
help finance installation of two more
paper machines, to erect a sawmilling
plant to cut pulp-wood and building and
furniture timbers, and to further develop
the co.’s forest areas. Pre-war local de-
mand for the co.’s products was around
50.000 tons p.a., and has increased since.
The co.’s output is about 21,000 tons
p.a. First of the new paper machines
will lift output by 30-40 p.c., and is ex-
pected to be in production about end
1947, Owing to delivery and other de-
lays, the second machine is not expected
to be running until 1950. Shareholders
have had a regular 6 p.c. p.a. for the
last half-dozen years. On the market
the scrip has advanced from the old
official ceiling of 345. to 435. * At the
higher figure the cost ex rights is 31s. Bd.
The value of the rights is 11s. 6d.
* * * *
For the eight months to end February
Australia’s wool cheque was £56,416,334,
or £12,888,849 more than for the corres-
ponding period of the previous season.
The average price per pound, greasy and
scoured combined, was 24.64 d., an in-
crease of 8.14 d. Sales totalled 1,855,634
bales, including 26,421 bales bought by
Joint Organisation. It is a handy addition
to the national income, and augurs well
for maintenance of easy money condi-
tions. Although there is a big backlog
of demand still to be overtaken by the
world’s millmen, present buying pressure
will not continue for ever.
* * » *
Australian Banking : Professor J. K.
Gifford, Queensland University, and J.
Vivian Wood, A.I.C.A. (Watson, Fer-
guson and Co.). This textbook on the
mechanics of Australian banking, and on
the part played by money and banking in
the economic set-up of Australia today, is
a timely addition to literature on the sub-
ject, much of which has been rendered
out of date by the big changes brought
about through State intervention in prac-
tically every sphere of economic activity,
especially banking. The work is of special
interest to students, bank officers, ac-
countants and secretaries. And the busi-
nessman will find in it many signposts to
technical and economic detours in the old
pre-war road along which banking
travelled.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”; As I write Australians
in Japan will be watching the cherry
blossoms scurry through their well-
advertised spring display. A fortnight
ago they looked dead, although daphne,
camellias, white magnolias and a few
prunes had kept an eye on the calendar
and put on a seasonal show ; but these are
like men who use an alarm-clock —the
cherry resembles a man who wakes with
the stirring of dawn, no sooner, no later.
For in the first week of April there floats
over the Inland Sea Jhe caress of spring
itself ; within a couple of days the season
has changed in a manner completely
foreign to our erratic weather, and the
earth stretches and stirs and lights appear
in a landscape of hitherto unequalled
drabness. Then it is that points of pink
appear on the bare branches of the
cherries ; the flush deepens and then pales
as clouds of. petal form along the streams
and hillsides. From April 10 to 15 is
the peak of the season, and during that
week our chaps wandering along the river
at Bofu, or tripping through Yamaguchi
to Hagi will pass picnic parties at their
Cherry Blossom Festivals. Within a week
of the full flush the ground will be
white with petals and young leaves will
be suffusing the blooms above with a soft
red-green. In private gardens japonicas
and flowering peaches will carry on till -
the azaleas and wistaria arrive about
Anzac Day, but “blossom-time” as the
world has been told about it is all over
in that one swift week. Our chappies
will be able to assess the spectacle in com-
parison with wattle-time in the Dande-
nongs or Loftys, and maybe set a higher
value on the southern gold.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Having caught and
cooked millions of prawns, I am a bit
tricked by “Old Pot’s” injunction (B.
26/3/’47) that these crustaceans should
first be dipped in fresh water to shift the
dirt and help them to spit up rubbish.
What dirt? What rubbish? What does
the prawn feed on, anyway? Dragging
in W.A. estuaries I have found it neces-
sary merely to work backwards and for-
wards over sizable patches of green vel-
vety weed. This was their feeding ground,
the prawns nibbling at the juicy weed
and picking up tiny microscopic life,
crustacean mostly, that also found the
weed a feeding ground. Certainly one
might take up a few jellyfish, or even
small whiting and other small fry, which
needed to be picked out from among the
prawns; otherwise the prawns were as
clean as a mermaid emerging from her
bath.
* * * *
“Zake”: A young magpie which has
been eking out his meat ration by hop-
ping into the bones left outside my
hound’s kennel while its occupant was
temporarily away seeing another dog
about a man was attracted by a hairy
caterpillar which essayed a sortie across
the lawn. Apparently Maggie Jnr. was
entirely unsophisticated, for he decided to
have fresher meat on the hoof. Driving
his bill through the caterpillar, he flew on
to the fence, where he proceeded to bash
the wriggler about. The expression on
his face was like unto that of a “Labor”
candidate who is being praised by a
Commo. If the pied fowl had had a nose
he’d have held it. As it was, he lost no
time in getting fid of his captive. By
which I gathered that the caterpillar ex-
udes a noisome odor and is withal never
on the menu of mature, worldly-wise
maggies.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Coast dwellers in these
S.Q. parts don’t need barometers or
meteorological reports to warn them of
heavy weather likely to come down from
northward in the autumn season. When
those graceful black pirates the frigate-
birds float over the beaches awaiting the
evening homecoming of honest workers
from offshore, it generally means that
they are avoiding discomfort at home.
To their streamlined bodies and 7ft. wing-
spread a thousand miles is a mere jaunt.
Now and then they glide down to pick
up a floating dainty from the surface, but
the real meal of the day is being col-
lected for them out over the horizon.
As the boobies, terns and gannets labor
in, crops full of fish, the robbers select
their victims and swoop. Knowing that
any dodging or delay will bring a fierce
peck from a long-hooked beak, possibly,
“Speak up! What are you trying to say?”
too, a dislocated wing, the unwilling
provider jettisons its cargo. The pirate
collects it in mid-air and soars aloft to
look out for the next course. When they
have eaten their fill each pair will seek
a high tree and sleep till morning. When
the s.-e. season comes in mid-April they
fly far northward on a brief honey-
moon, thereafter to take up family cares
on some lonely island amid their own-
predatory kin.
* * * Jj:
“Betcha”: It has been our district
custom in the early summer months to
burn fire-breaks around the edges of the
bush country. Selecting a suitable day,
gangs gather and, commencing on the
outer fringe, the fires are burnt in a face
back into the scrub. At these working-
bees, Dad Wilson was always missing.
Remembering his ready response to every
emergency call, I could not accept the
accusation of laziness, and at the first
opportunity broached the subject. “Even
when we burnt the break behind your
own property,” I went on inquiringly,
“you weren’t around.” “No,” he ex-
plained. “It don’t make sense t’ me,
that’s all. No use teilin’ all you pig-
headed blokes, but come an’ I’ll show y’.”
He led me to a scene of our recent
activities. “Now, there’s what y’ reckon
’s a safe break,” he pointed. “Y’ve
burnt a few dead leaves an’ rub-
bish on the ground, but look up
there.” He indicated the wither-
ing and fire-scorched tree tops. “All
them leaves are gonna fall soon an’ make
more rubbish than before, an’ a lot o’
these small bushes y’r fire’s run over are
gonna die an’ lace the scrub with a beaut,
lot o’ dry sticks t’ encourage any flame
the summer brings along. See? No,” he
concluded decidedly, “I don’t b’lieve in
burnin’ breaks.”
*-* * *
“C.E.”: Dad was turning in his gate as
Ted Henry’s truck came tearing down
the road towards town. “There’s a strike
on in town, Dad,” he bawled, slowing as
he passed the gate. “Half the fact’ries
shut, I believe.” “Good-oh,” waved Dad,
gleefully. “I’ll be in soon’s I swaller p,
bit o’ dinner.” The meal over in record
time, Dad chucked a saddle on the mare
and dashed over to Simpkins’. “Hey,
Bill, there’s a big strike on in town,” he
called excitedly. “Thought I’d better let
y’ know. Fact’ries are shut.” “Yair?
Well thank goodness f’r that,” sighed
Simpkins. “ ’Bout time they come out.
Been workin’ in there damn’ near two
munce, now. Wait an’ I’ll come in with
y’.” Five weeks later, Ted Henry’s truck
again rattled along the road and stopped
opposite Dad. “Well, the strike’s over
again,” he remarked, reaching for the
makings. “How’d y’ git on?” “Aw, not
bad, Ted, not bad,” came the reply.
“Long’s there’s another before the autumn
rains, I’ll make out. The couple I got
weren’t good workers, mind y’; still, I
got most o’ me crop in, an’ I reckon it’s
on’y fair f’r them coots t’ work in the
fact’ries sometimes.”
* « * *
“Old-timer”: When old Mac an-
nounced that he was going to buy a
motor-car the boys became greatly ex-
cited and began an argument as to who
was going to drive it home, all three of
them having got in a bit of practice on
neighbors’ cars. Mac put his foot down.
“She’s my car, an’ I’m goin’t’ drive her
home,” he announced. They tried to tell
him that you couldn’t just get in a car
and drive it, you had to learn about the
gears and use of the brakes and accelera-
tor and so forth, but Mac scorned them
all. “Had t’ learn how t’ do things all
me life,” he boomed. “Think a bloomin’
motor-car can beat me?” He got a lift
in with Bob Nelson and carefully watched
Bob change gears on the sandhills. In
the town the car agent put him behind the
wheel of the new car and tutored him
along the roads for a couple of hours.
Night came, and Mac’s apprehensive
family watched the road. Cars came and
wept past. By midnight there was no
more traffic. Charlie tramped two miles
across the paddocks to Judkins’ and
telephoned the town. They told him Mac
had left just before dark and should have
been home long ago, Charlie tramped
back home, Bob ran the horses in and
three boys, mounted, set off along the
road. Fred saw a light on the T.S.R.
about five miles out of town and rode
over. Mac sat by the fire contentedly
smoking, and near by stood the new car.
“What’s wrong?” Fred asked. “Nothin’
much,” Mac replied, “only when I come
t’ light the flamin’ lamps on her I
couldn’t get the glass off.” Fred reached
in and switched the lights on. “Strike
me fat,” marvelled Mac. . “An’ me
strikin’ matches an’ tryin’t’ unscrew them
glasses. Y’ never know what they’ll think
of next, do y’?”
* * * *
“Atlanta”: We were surprised to hear
that Aub and George had dissolved part-
nership, for they had bfeen inseparables
for years. Draped across the bar at
O’Shea’s pub Aub told us about it, “We’d
been out of fresh meat for a week,” he
related, “before I dropped an old red
buck, and George reckoned he’d grill
some ’roo steak for breakfast. George
considers he’s a pretty fair hand at the
game, and I thought so, too, until I seen
that steak. The cow spoilt the lot by
cuttin’ it across the grain!”
* * * ♦
“Ratbag”: I wondered why my
pet octopus had been bellowing all the
morning. Then I noticed the newspaper
on the table alongside the glass of his
aquarium. It was opened at an article
which told in glowing terms of jet pro-
pulsion in aircraft, and then I under-
stood—his tribe had been using the “jet”
method to get around for the last billion
years, and to show his contempt for the
human race for “lifting” his family’s idea
he swirled his legs at me and shot away
to complain to the goldfish. This snub
made me think. Very soon we should be
able to travel faster than the speed of
sound. Then a horrible thought struck
me. Though we thus might be able to
get away from the parting shots of our
in-laws, what if we might be too fast and
miss, say, the blissful sound of the clink
of beer bottles in a suitcase? Grabbing
the octo. from his haven I exacted a just
vengeance on him for a stupid idea by
tying his legs in a knot and tossing him
to the cat.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: So “J. Dory” (B.
19/3/’47) can kill sharks by inserting a
heaped tabiespoonful of caustic soda or
quicklime into a body of a big mullet,
or even the opened shell of a cray. Well,
apart from the fact that it would be diffi-
cult to keep either substance from coming
into contact with the water and being
immediately diluted and neutralised, I
doubt whether even the caustic would
do the shark much immediate harm.
Knew a native kid who helped himself
to a tin of caustic soda with a spoon.
Certainly it corroded his throat and
stomach badly, but six years after his go
at the suppdsed sweets he was well on the
road to recovery, though without much
power of speech. As for quicklime, the
water in the flesh of either the mullet or
the cray would slake that long before it
touched the shark’s interior. Further, I’ve
fed fowls on quicklime, accidentally,
without it doing them the slightest in-
jury, Caustic soda is not a poison ip the
arsenic, stryqhnine or cyanide sense: it is
merely a corrosive, and though it might
give the shark a gastric ulcer it would
do little more. But cyanide the size of a
pea would stiffen the biggest sea tiger.
• * * *
“Atrax”: Don’t agree with “Naturala”
(B. 26/3/’47) in his gloomy outlook for
those ancient and vigorous Australians
the bull-dog ants against competition
from Argentine interlopers. Long ago
similar pessimistic prophecies were made
about the evil abilities of the Singapore
ant in the same direction, but our “living
fossils” continue to do quite well for
themselves. Mere numbers and gregar-
ious instinct are not the only determin-
ing factors in survival. Fighting ability
and aggressiveness are the qualities which
count most of all against competition
from members of the same family,
Formicidce, which includes all known
ants. Unless that highly dangerous and
irresponsible mammal Homo sillyens
busts up the whole show in the mean-
time I’m willing to wager that the good
old Aussie bull-ants will still be carrying
on in another 30,000,000 years.
* * * ar
“Mat’s Mate”: We had in the camp
one of those cunning coves who, before
beginning to skite, made sure nobody
could trip him up. Thus, after work,
he’d start something like this: “Ever bin
up t’ Mildoora? Bin in Ballarat or
Maryborough?” And when nobody
answered he’d pitch some yarn about one
or other place. One night the talk got
on to fishing, and we were vocally
dragging some fair cod out of the Murray
and its feeders when Joe looked up from
his paper and said “It reckons here some
bloke caught a twenty-foot shark near
Port Melbourne.” There were exclama-
tions of wonderment, and one or two
weighed in with something they’d read
or heard about monsters of various sizes.
The skite jumped in. “Ever bin t’ Syd-
ney? Crikey, that’s the place for sharks.
All over the joint. People always gettin’
grabbed, an’ they’ll even tackle boats an’
that. I seen one more’n twenty-five feet
long. ’Mother time I” Mat stood
up and said “Garn. The worst sharks in
Sydney is between five an’ six feet long.
Bite like the dickens, too. They’ll bite y’
for anything from a smoke t’ a insurance
policy. Y’ can’t tell me you ever bin
there; y’ wouldn’t ha’ got out with y’r
shirt on.” And the talk swung on to race-
horses.
* * * *
“Naturala”; For 15 years the 6in.
square of galvanised sheet on top of the
jarrah house stump had done its duty in
keeping the termites at bay. Then, visit-
ing the bush tenement after a long
absence, I found the ants feasting on the
interior lining of light jarrah. Investigating
under the floor, I discovered that the ter-
mites had built up one side of the stump,
found the metal stop somewhat time-
corroded, built along it for two inches
and so gained footing on a jarrah floor
joist. Up over this joist, seemingly un-
palatable, they had a finger-thick tunnel
which carried them to the upper floor
and dadoes. Promptly I destroyed the
tunnel and bent the edges of the ant stop
down to an angle which I thought un-
climbable. However, by next morning
they had repaired all damage, had built
down the bent edge of the stop, around
the knife edge, up the metal slope and so
regained the jarrah floor joist. But the
amazing point was: up across the 4in.
width of the joist they now had two tun-
nels. Evidently their engineering heads
had decided that, since one large tunnel
had somehow failed it would be better to
build two smaller ones. Can you beat
them? I have hopes of the efficacy of
hot tar.
SEA MEMORIES.
The steep green hills are straight and still —
When shall I see again
The stiff-winged shrill Pacific gulls
Sweep calling to the fishing hulls
Through a web of misty rain?
Remember the motor-yawl we brought
In the tail of a mad typhoon,
From Gladstone south with the whistling blast
Filling the harried clouds that passed
In mist across the m00n...
With that blade-keen wind to hurl us on
And the rain-squalls fleet before,
Out to the east by Bustard Head
To the salty splash of a searching lead,
Then south on a grim lee shore.
On through the dimming hazy dusk,
The clouds and the waves’ wild fume,
Till the middle watch of that frenzied night
When we raised the Lady Elliott light
Through the toss of the circling spume.
With eyes half-closed to the spearing rain
On a footloose compass-card
We battered down the reeling seas,
Wheel hard-gripped and wide-braced knees
And rigid muscles jarred.
As the sullen night gave way to light
Upon our starboard hand
Was twisted Crook-neck’s straining shape
And sleepy blinks from Sandy Cape
In the dim blue cloud of land.
Hurled, fast hurled by the diesel’s hum
And the singing seas astern
We came, at last, when 4he dusk was red
South-west around Caloundra Head,
Where the bobbing buoy-lights burn.
So safe we ran to Moreton Bay, j
Safe in by Cowan light, i
Then west again toward the Pile
To see the river’s welcome smile,
The channel-markers bright.
Steep and still are the tall green hills,
Heavy with earth my brain —
And the stiff-winged shrill Pacific gulls
Are calling yet to the fishing hulls
Through the web of misty rain.
QUEENSLAND.
BILL SCOTT.


“Bo”: The eucalypt has, I am aware,
many solid medicinal properties. The
antiseptic qualities of its oil are well
known. I have heard asthmatic bushmen
claim) to have derived benefit from sleep-
ing on a pillow of gumleaves, and
sufferers from rheumatics, sciatica and
associated complaints are often equally
enthusiastic. I knew one chap who
soaked his feet in eucalyptus oil for long
periods in the fond belief that it would
cure his tinea. He thought he should
cease the treatment only when his soles
looked as if they might curl up and peel
off his hocks at any minute. He still had
his tinea, but his faith in our national
tree received only a slight dent. From its
many admirers I have gathered that a
spot of the oil rubbed on the outside of
a boot will make the corn of its wearer
shrivel up; that if even the label from
the bottle is put inside his hat a man
with a burnished dome shortly will have
hair as long and thick as a piano virtu-
oso’s ; that a touch of it smeared on a
cocky’s utility truck will cure the bron-
chitis of the garageman who services it.
It seems pretty certain that a teaspoonful
rubbed on the wall of the Taxation De-
partment will cure the rubber of further
assessments. It is, in fact, so efficacious
that I think if M. Molotov could be in-
duced to drink about a quart of it, neat,
the Foreign Ministers’ conference could
even end in success.
* ; * * *
“Solitude”; Got back after a fortnight
and found Seventyfiver unsaddling. “Had
that there religious cadger stuck here f’r
two days,” he said curtly. I chuckled,
“Get stung for a quid?” “Two,” he
“Will you be much longer with the bath, Mr. Perkins?”
mourned. “Reckoned he missed me last
trip.” I was still enjoying the come-
back as we neared the hut, and I sud-
denly spotted a black snake disappearing
under the floor. Ten minutes later I
glimpsed a foot of snake near the fire-
place. “Aw, he won’t hurt y’,” reiterated
Seventyfiver. “Not a bad bloke —five feet
or more an’ lives under the floor. Oh,
awright,” as I made a mad swipe at a
swinging strap that tickled the back of
nay neck, “y’ c’n whang him if he starts
bitin’ y’.” Seated in the middle of the
hut, I three times glimpsed the “not a
bad bloke” before bedtime; then, as
Seventyfiver snored through the night, I
watched the cracks in the moonlight. The
place grew alive with reptiles, and eyes
and ears were strained keeping track of
the beastly things. At daylight I tackled
Seventyfiver good and proper. “You
were a goat,” I snorted, “letting a blasted
nuisance like that get in the hut.” “Y-
-yair, but what c’d / do?” came his de-
fence. “Do? Well, y’ve got a gun,
haven’t you?” I challenged. “Or you
could have belted the poisonous crawler
■ out with a (Stick. But no, you jolly well
invite the cow in.” “I know,” he sighed.
“I know. But, cripes, Sol, I couldn’t see
him stuck, could I? Not when his car
was bruk down.”
* * * *
“Greenhide Bob”: On Tinnenburra,
after Jimmy Tyson died, they j|sed to tell
the story of how Jimmy, at 'a Sydney
hotel table near some silvertails who
didn’t know him, listened to a long dis-
cussion on how tight Jimmy was with his
wad. The final story was of how he rode
on to Tinnenburra after he had bought it,
looked at the fruit and vegetable garden,
called his overseer and ordered him to
cut down the fruit-trees and dig up the
vegetables, as a man who couldn’t live on
hard tack (damper and mutton) was too
soft to work on Tinnenburra. As they
rose to go Jimmy challenged them to lift
their plates and show what tips they had
left. His was the only one with any
money under it. So he announced that
he was Jimmy Tyson, and not the meanest
man south of the equator by at least the
number of silvertails present.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: We were demonstrat-
ing the effect of rifle-fire to wild natives
in previously unexplored country in New
Britain. The .303 in. tore through a dozen
shields and penetrated a tree. The on-
lookers were impressed, except one old
sceptic who could not associate cause and
effect. “You don’t throw that short, blunt
spear,” he said. Carefully the processes
of loading, aiming and firing were ex-
plained. The empty shell and a spent
bullet were exhibited. “Maybe,” he said,
“but make it go slowly so I can see.”
r * * »
“Tiamu”: Although it is acknowledged
that the coconut is a native of north-
west South America, the theory advanced
by “Puyyaka” (B. 26/3/ ’47) in support
of the drifting trip planned by some
Norwegian ex-servicemen in an effort to
prove that the Polynesians came from the
Americas has been an exploded myth for
many years. The “drift” theory never
has held water in view of the voyages
of thousands of miles in each direction
undertaken by the Polynesians in their
two- and three-masted canoes between
New Zealand, Rarotonga, Tahiti, Hawaii
and other islands. It is fairly certain that
there was no aboriginal population of the
Pacific when the Maoris invaded from
the east. It can be assumed they brought
the nuts from South America on one of
their many visits there. As for “P.’s”
contention that the stone statues on Easter
Island could not have been raised except
by enormous manpower or by mechanical
means, has he any idea of what can be
done by, say, 500 men equipped by three
or four drag ropes? In any case, what of
the monoliths at Guam and Tinian? No ;
the Polynesians who came down into
India with the great Aryan flood about
1500 or 1000 b.c. were a Caucasian
people. They left India about 475 b.c.
and sailed to Indonesia, settling at various
times in Sumatra, Java, the Celebes,
Ceram and Borneo. They left Borneo
finally about a.d. 400 in two convoys, one
going direct to Hawaii and the other pass-
“That sign means admission to the theatre—not in here!”
ing down the coasts of New Guinea and
the Solomons to the Lau group and ad-
jacent islands. The last great migration
was to New Zealand in a.d. 1350.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Most of the dead sea-birds
(B, 19/3 / ’47) found on Barrier Reef
shores particularly at this season are
ferns, noddies and mutton birds which
have got themselves tangled up with
pisonia seeds. These exude an extremely
sticky secretion whose obvious purpose is
to enable the seed-bunches to be carried
to fresh ground elsewhere by birds which
happen to come in contact with them. As
is quite often the case, Mother Nature
overdoes the business and the intended
carriers are liable to become so help-
lessly overburdened whilst building or
roosting in pisonias, or gathering nest-
materials below them, that they starve to
death, unable either to fly or swim. The
chicks do not suffer in this way to any
serious extent, as the seeds have dried
off before they begin their first trial
flights, and only when both parents get
gummed up more or less simultaneously
do they go short of tucker.
* * * *
“Bubblo”; First take a sizable clear-
glass bottle. Then about 3ft. of fairly
heavy fencing wire. Lay bottle on wire
at centre and wrap wire one turn round.
Tap out any kinks with a piece of flat
wood. Then, with a file, cut off one of
the wire ends. This now gives a single
loop fitted with a fairly long handle.
Heat loop to redness and place round
heel of bottle. Leave there half a minute,
then plunge bottle into cold water. Deftly
done this should result in the bottom of
the bottle coming off. Repeat process
at neck. So “Qwert etc.” (B. 26/3/’47)
should have his lamp glass. Procure jam-
or fruit-tin, latter for preference, fill
with dripping, without salt if possible.
From the nearest source obtain a long
dry banksia (honeysuckle) flower. Insert
down centre of fat and he has the best
natural wick obtainable. Set glass over
or around flame, using two flat sticks ;
and here is a good bush lamp complete.
Failing a banksia cone a dry pithy bul-
rush peeled down one side will do. Or
a dry elderberry stick. Or even a dry
section of sunflower stalk. All these
wicks burn sweetly; the lamp has in it,
too, a flavor of frying chops.
“C. D. Mine”: No need to worry about
shortage of lamp glasses. An ordinary
hurricane-lantern glass reversed will fit
most kerosene lamps and gives a good
light.
* * * «
“Sur Cingle”; My neighbors up the
track have had staying with them some
Adelaide relatives who brought with them
a cocky tan-and-white fox terrier which
apparently considered he had a mission
to teach the hayseed dogs the superiority
of a city upbringing. He started on the
fowls and was surprised to find his liberty
temporarily curtailed and his person
threatened with violence. Worse, the
three dusty-looking red kelpies belonging
to the homestead openly laughed at him.
It’s suspected that they thereafter filled
him with yarns about what was expected
of a dog, for he was shortly after dis-
covered trying to turn the poddy lamb
into mutton chops. When he’d' re-
covered from that lot he decided to go
out with the son of the house to set
rabbit traps. Inevitably he stepped into
one and, when released and reprimanded,
went off sulkily to sit in the scant shade
at the entrance to a burrow. Unfortu-
nately there was another trap immedi-
ately under the spot he sat on. After
that he lost all interest in rabbits and
turned to bigger game, in this case the
pet kangaroo. He was lucky there was
assistance at hand to save him from the
corner of the netting into which Bluey
manoeuvred him before setting to work in
the usual ’roo style. After that he showed
a savage interest in the gory euro hides
which someone was pegging out in one
of the sheds. Recovering from the im-
pact of a shoeing rasp with his port ribs
he was still determined to show these
hicks something, so he fell on a tin of
arsenical skin paint and drank a pint or
so. Whether it was the poison or the
subsequent salt treatment no one knows,
but he waited in the car after that for
the day of return to the city.
He * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: No bush belief
dies harder than the one that if a goanna
is bitten by a snake the victim counter-
acts the effects of the venom by eating
the leaves of a plant. I’ve heard tell of
the happening in half the districts in Aus-
tralia. Yet the peculiar thing is that,
although the monitors seem to have
access to the plant anywhere in the conti-
nent, no one has apparently discovered
what the herb is. Moreover, holders of
this belief fail to explain how an acid
passing into the stomach can counteract
a poison injected into the bloodstream
and which operates on the nerve system.
Eyewitnesses to the go.’s selection of the
herbal antidote are, of course, non-
existent. The points of the case (apart
altogether from the fact that the snake is
more often bitten by the goanna) are
that either because of his crocodile-like
skin or of some fact not yet determined,
the tree-crawler is near-immune to snake-
bite. My idea is that the tale was started
by some early shepherd, probably some
imaginative Highlander or Irishman, to
lend color to the yarn which would other-
wise not be believed.
* * * *
“Hanko”: In almost every ibis
rookery there’s a sprinkling of spoon-
bills’ nests, and when the pin-feathered
chicks of the two species of birds make
their first shambling foray from a
nursery it’s a giggle from curtain-rise.
Stumbling and falling and righting them-
selves with flipper-like wings, the surge
of the preponderant ibises carries the
spoonbills out to the near-by grassland
and the hunt for insects. I’ve wept with
mirth at the sight of infant spoonbills
striving to harpoon lively insects with
their ridiculous ladles ; I’ve cringed in
rib-tearing torment when they gave up
the chase and stood piping mournfully
among the jostling ibises, and I’ve sighed
with relief when an age-old instinct has
urged them back to the lignum swamp.
The comedy is over when the spoonbill
youngsters get their spoons into the ooze
and start dredging for their lunch.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Cleaning up the household
veg. garden for the winter crop one came
across a slender-stemmed fungus with a
knobbed top. Gently dug out, it revealed
itself as growing from the head of a big
dead grub whose originally soft body
tissues had been replaced by a firm white
fungoid material. These “vegetable cater-
pillars” are originally the larvae of a kind
of big, handsome moth whose family
relatives, the Swift Moths, are found also
in Maoriland and Patagonia. They are
responsible for a lot of damage to crops
and pastures by eating their roots, and
would do much more were it not for a
fungus belonging to the genus Cordyceps.
Its windborne spores get soaked into the
ground by rain. Should any of them be
eaten by a burrowing grub they germin-
ate in its living body and gradually kill
it by converting its tissues into vegetable
matter. From this stationary food-reser-
voir they send up a stalk to the upper air,
and in due course a fresh lot of spores
drifts off from the knobbed end to con-
tinue the perpetuation of the species.
THE KNOWLEDGEABLE SUB.
He sits within the background of his job,
Away from the publicity of print,
Wrinkling his brows and scratching his wise nod,
Repolishing the coins the writers mint;
Touching with deftness sure the ragged phrase,
Refurbishing the jolting, dragging line;
Giving the needful rub,
The literary glaze;
Making the tinished thing look superfine:
There, in the back, the knowledgeable sub.
Oh, writers young, and those of great renown,
What of the comma you so oft misplace?
What of the colon, aye, so oft let down,
The dash the sub. so often must efface?
Do you remember really what you wrote?
Did you compare yours with the printed line,
Learn what he had to grub,
And his additions note,
And say he’d spoilt your stuff, the rotten swine?
Of course you did —that knowledgeable sub.!
What of that word you thought was good
enough?
Friend, those who read the thing will never
know
The groans and rage expended on your stuff,
The agony you causecf, the debt ypu owe.
And so within the clear and printed page
With everything within its proper place,
Though names on him you dub
(For ignorance must rage)
Yet he will ever help to save your face:
The man who knows, the knowledgeable sub.!
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


THE
TOP
PRICE
warranted for
your wool is assured when you're with A.M.L. & F.
because it leads in its standards of valuing, displaying,
lotting and auctioneering; because it has the confidence
of buyers as well as its clients.
Consign YOUR next clip to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga, Moree. Henty and Hay.
A 7.22.17
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
; .(JcJt
J Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour Is purely a bone product without admixture
Of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
J
y“"~' \
V'
DESTROY THESE PESTS
with
OnogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.. LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
n
CARRIES WATER FOR ONE MILE
AT PRESSURES UP TO 100 POUNDS PER SQUARE INCH
For . . .
• IRRIGATION
• TANK TO HOME
• DAMS TO PADDOCKS
Your water-conveying problems are ended when you install “MAXIMUM
connecting pipes with the famous Flexible Coupling which is the only one on
the market with such all-round flexibility and ease of connection. Maximum
piping will fit all usual irrigation systems, is extremely adaptable, and eacn
installation is individually designed and built to fit your
particular needs. Thanks to the “Maximum Coupling,
pipes can be connected by a simple movement to any
inclination up to 15 degrees in any direction and remain
watertight. Write or enquire now!
Agents: Smith & Gluyaa Pty., Ltd., 154-156 J Clarence St.,
Sydney, M 2977. Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne St., South Brisbane, J 1456. Pascoe & Co-, Ltd.,
282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia, M 7127.
Welling & Crossley Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon St., South
Melbourne, MX 4889.
(Illustrates irrigation)
11 -..<SU
v.'XsV-’l!
m\
w
Manufacturers:
MAXIMUM SPRAY
IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY— MA 7858
(M.o)
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WO RRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Flock Improvement.
“K.W.R.”: Many sheepmen are re-
luctant to spend a little more money on
good-quality rams, forgetting the fact
that the additional three or four guineas
per fiead will come back multiplied
through increased returns from progeny.
Poor sheep require just as much —and
possibly more —time and attention as do
high-quality sheep, and they eat just as
much feed.
Nothing can evolve a line of top-
quality ewes if low-grade rams are used,
and, apart from smaller wool returns,
the poor sheep can’t be sold at the price
of its well-bred competitor. Introduction
of better rams should noticeably increase
wool production within three or four
years, the standard of the whole flock
will be raised considerably, and similarly,
improvement can be continued until stud
standard is reached.
In fat-lamb production it is the same.
Lambs must develop quickly and combine
plumpness with symmetrical form at an
early age, and although feeding on suit-
able pastures or crops is essential, car-
cass quality is largely determined by the
sire. Lambs which have inherited early-
maturing plumpness from a pure-bred,
shapely sire can usually be marketed at
from 11 to 12 weeks, but the progeny of
an inferior sire of the same breed may
require three or four weeks longer to de-
velop prime condition, and then cannot
be classed as prime sucker lambs, for
they are too old to carry the sucker
bloom. The additional expense and
trouble of feeding and attending the
slower-maturing lambs for an extra three
or four weeks is a further argument for
top-quality rams.
Birdsville Disease.
“Outback”: Reporting in the “Aus-
tralian Veterinary Journal” G. R. Moule,
Queensland Government vet., states that
it seems unlikely that the etiology of the
disease will be known until a careful
study can be made of its exact course and
pathology, and its distribution delineated
in terms of specific plant communities.
Moule admits that the earliest known
reference to the disease in the department
is a letter dated February 27, 1889, written
by the late James Irving, a Brisbane vet.,
to the then Chief Inspector of Stock for
Queensland. The letter referred to four
horses suffering from “Birdsville Horse
Disease” forwarded to Irving by stock-
owners in the Diamantina district. As
the disease was said even then to occur
sporadically over a large area of western
Queensland, as far east as Windorah,
“where it occurs frequently,” and at
times caused heavy losses, the depart-
ment did not appear to have been in any
great hurry to endeavor to control it.
Veterinary officers from the N.T, who
visited Brisbane recently stated that the
disease had been encountered as far south
as the N.T.-S.A. border, and as far north
as 21 deg. s. latitude, and that the indica-
tions were that losses in the Territory
had been extremely heavy. Now # that
scientific personnel from the services have
resumed duty with the C.S.I.R. and State
Departments a definite effort should be
made to clear up “Birdsville” and other
diseases which are identified by local
names. “St. George” disease is now found
in various parts of Queensland, and
'graziers in the St. George district natur-
ally resent their district being tagged with
the disease. “Mackenzie River” disease
is another locally-named disease which
should be correctly identified and named.
Efficient Milking.
“Prof”: The secret is to collect all the
milk from each cow as quickly as poss-
ible. American authorities tell us that
each cow should be timed, the machines
being left on for only three minutes. By
“Keep yr hair on, gents — I like me snags Well done.”
rigidly culling the seconds our average
per cow is now four minutes where once
it was six or seven. The result is more
milk from a more contented herd.
To achieve this speed one must know
the various processes of milking: letting
down, full milking and slackening-off
stages. Lastly, the milk not removed by
the machines may or may not be stripped
out by hand. A cow lets down under a
nervous influence stimulated by normal
procedure associated with milking, such
as being baled up, teats being washed or
the teat cups being placed on them. Some
old cows, used to hand-milking, will,
when they begin to dry off, refuse to let
down at all to machines, and must be
hand-milked until a full flow of milk is
ensured. Cases where the milk flow is
stimulated before milking actually begins
must not be baled up till the last possible
moment or the secreting muscles will tire
before all the milk can be removed (this
is said to take between five and six
minutes).
In the full milking stage the main
volume of the milk is secreted. Near the
end of this stage the teat cups tend to
creep up the teats and cut off the flow.
As soon as this occurs cows must be
machine-stripped by pulling down on the
milking claw with one hand or weighing
it down with half a brick or piece of
wood or iron about the same weight. Im-
mediately the flow again diminishes take
the machines off.
Whether or not the last portion of the
milk should be removed by stripping is
a question that has not yet been
answered satisfactorily. We strip, but I
am sure if we suddenly stopped about
three-quarters of the herd would be un-
affected. From other local experience it
seems thaCa cow can get into the habit
of not being stripped just as it can get
into the habit of holding back a cupful
for the milker to remove by hand.
Saving the Soil.
“C.S.”: So many Victorians have be-
come convinced that it will have to be
done by Act of Parliament that legisla-
tion for the purpose is being considered.
H. Hanslow, a State Rivers and Water
Supply Commissioner, who is satisfied
that Mallee farmers—and indirectly the
rest of the State —are losing the battle,
favors it. Hanslow should know. He
has toured the Mallee many times, thrice
with the judge in soil erosion control
competitions and four times as judge of
the competitions. His Commission is
vitally interested in drifting soil, since it
runs water into the Mallee and drifting
sand obliterates its channels. So are
road and rail authorities for the same
reason. In his tours Hanslow has seen
more and more roads made impassable,
more wind-chutes built on railways and
more sub-soil exposed on farms.
For 15 years before 1944, average cost
of cleaning drift soil from Mallee channels
was £72,600; in 1944-45 it jumped to
£125,600; and in 1945-46 to £325,000,
when 12,000,000 cubic yards of sand
had to be removed. For 1946-47
£160,000 was made available, much of
the drift being left over from the previous
year. In 1945-46 516 farmers got no water
by channel because their channels were
completely blocked.
These high costs have embarrassed the
State Government. Money that should
have been made available for mainten-
ance of irrigation channels has sometimes
had to be diverted to the Mallee for
channel cleaning. Finding sufficient
money for the job is a perennial head-
ache.
Capital cost of works to supply water
to Wimmera-Mallee districts is nearly
£4,000,000, of which approximately
£2,800,000 goes to Mallee districts alone.
The State bears the whole of it. Com-
pared with the high annual costs of clean-
ing Mallee channels, water revenue from
the Mallee is about £85,000 per annum.
In addition to channel-cleaning costs is
regular annual expenditure on normal
maintenance, administration and opera-
tion of the water supply.
To these costs must be added those
incurred by the railways in keeping lines
clear of sand—trains have frequently
been held up for hours, some have been
derailed—and by shires and the Main
Roads Board in clearing roads. Any
motorist leaving a main road in the
Mallee must carry a shovel. There are
miles of impassable roads, thousands of
miles of buried fences, numbers of par-
tially-buried buildings, hundreds of sand-
filled dams, to say nothing of bared hills
and the increasing sand dunes which creep
inexorably over everything.
The causes are many and various;
they have been stated again and again.
Because the Mallee has just had a “good
year,” the various destructive agencies
are likely to intensify the destruction by
heavier stocking, increased cultivation,
burning of stubble, irresponsible share-
farming and so forth.
Hanslow grimly reminds Victorians
that his Commission —always short of
sufficient money to maintain irrigation
works in highly-productive districts —the
railways and the shires cannot go on
spending at such a rate to keep their
facilities clear of sand while the land-
owners, as a whole, go on with the prac-
tices that cause the drift of soil. Plainly
the time has come when the responsibility
of stopping erosion must be forced upon
owners of eroding lands. No longer
should a freehold title or a lease give
the holder the right to destroy the land
and, at the same time, destroy the lands
and amenities of his neighbors. And
Victoria is not the only State which,
sooner or later, will have to consider the
introduction of laws to protect the soil.
Horse Care.
“Sundowner”; Horses with light limbs
and heavy bodies and with, flat, spreading
feet are very prone to laminitis, an acute
inflammation of the hoof. Working unfit
horses in hot weather, overfeeding of grain
or green feed and overwork may also pre-
cipitate attacks. Symptoms cannot be
mistaken, as laminitis occurs in one foot,
two fore or two hind feet or all four feet,
never in one fore and one hind foot.
If fore feet are affected they are “pointed”
in front of the animal, if the hind feet
all four feet are drawn under the body.
A rise in temperature occurs and the hoof
itself is hot to the touch.
An acute attack is usually followed by


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
2J.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
liqueurs
mmm
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
FESQ
liqueurs
it's "good taste" to serve them!
HIGHEST AWARD AND FOUR FIRST
PRIZES 1947 ROYAL EASTER SHOW
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY., LTD. —Established 18!,» FBD(a).
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
HI
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all MARS
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
from a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
V
V
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty.,
Ltd. VICTORIA —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.),' Brunswick,
Melbourne. Q’LAND—lntercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
VV.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA
f'arles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. OALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chownnghee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q’LAND OF
meehanite
METALS
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORPINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
Jrtf
m
m
■
1
m
> it
m
■
pi
r- ?«J
■
53. SAC
THE OWL IS PROVERBIALLY A WISE BIRD, SO BE SURE
YOU FOLLOW HIS EXAMPLE! TILLEY LAMPS ARE
SO SUCCESSFUL THAT COPIES OF THEM ARE BEING
MARKETED. TILLEY LAMPS ARE MADE ONLY IN ENGLAND
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
MELBOURNE: T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
some change in the hoof such as drop-
pine of the sole and lengthening of the
to e * Best treatment is a quick purgative
plus the application of cold packs to
affected hooves. The same end can be
achieved by placing the animals on a
swampy piece of ground.
Egg Hygiene.
“Bat”: Eggs deteriorate in quality very
rapidly if left uncovered, especially in hot
weather. A cool room will repay the ex-
pense of its upkeep if eggs are sent to
market. The shells are porous, and
evaporation causes a hollow to form in-
side the shell. The egg’s defence against
deterioration is then destroyed. Go
around the nests early in the day and
cover the collection as soon as cool. Any-
thing that is damp or offensive should
be removed from the egg-room because
of the absorbent quality of the shells.
Damp packing and nesting material is
always dangerous.
Washing of eggs should never be per-
mitted if they are intended for market.
Dry nesting material, regular collection,
prompt covering, careful packing and
early delivery are things’ worth remem-
bering if good-quality eggs are desired.
Correct feeding is only part of the job.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jumbuck”: Kurrajong is a poor sub-
stitute for grass and is at best perhaps
only a filler (B. 12/3/’47), but if fed
judiciously to sheep during a drought,
kurrajong or any other edible scrub
will prove its worth. If forced to exist
on scrub alone sheep may die from im-
paction, and a supplementary fodder is
necessary. With a suitable lick and given
an allowance of about 4oz. per sheep
of wheat, maize or oats, drought-stricken
sheep will hold their own on scrub. But
scrub-feeding should begin early, before
the sheep have lost too much condition.
“Curlew”: When ringworm appears
among cattle it is too frequently neg-
lected, so that the disease spreads and
may even be transmitted to humans.
Kerosene put on with a brush will clean
up every spot. The longer treatment is
delayed the biggfer the job, as affected
beasts rubbing on posts, etc., or other
cattle may continue the infection for a
long time.
“Myrrhee”: As a bone-builder calcium
phosphate is needed by growing stock,
breeding and milking animals. The best
way to supply the mineral to stock is to
topdress the pastures with super, or give
31b. of a mixture of four parts lime to
one part salt with each 1001 b. of grain to
horses, cattle, sheep and pigs. This is
essential where the bulk of the diet con-
sists of grains.
“Mr.”: Don’t feed pigs immediately
before loading for market. Food eaten
at this stage may cause them to be sick
and it won’t help to bring higher prices.
Buyers won’t be influenced when esti-
mating carcass weights by fullness of the
pigs’ stomachs; when buying live
pigs over the scales they usually make
allowance for pigs with full bellies.
“Billjim”; An application of 10-121 b
per acre of copper carbonate under
general conditions gives the greatest
benefit to pasture and cereal crops and
to the health of the animals grazing
thereon.
“Big Billy”: As a grain oat with
drought-resisting characteristics, Algerian,
sown early, is probably the best. For a
dual-purpose oat capable of early growth
for feeding-off and then making light
hay or grain, Kherson is good.
“Bennie”: The long white bush mar-
row is an excellent variety. It crops
quickly and heavily and needs only a
small space. Dig the area deeply and
mix in some well-decayed animal manure.
Sow about half a dozen seeds and keep
the area well watered and free from
weed growth.
“W. Court”: Poison baits put down
for rats and mice in storage sheds often
are ignored because plenty of other tucker
is lying around. They’ll not touch stuff
that man has handled closely if there’s
anything else handy. So clean up all
spilt grain, etc., and s§w up gnawed
sacks before getting busy. A few slices
of fat bacon into which strychnine
powder has been worked with a knife-
blade will get the entire population in
a few nights. The bacon should be
secured to the floor or shelves with tacks
to prevent a few gluttons from hogging
the lot and taking it home; a few tins
of water near the baits will ensure the
pests dying on the spot.
“Big Billy”: Trees suffer a good deal
from the inroads of the honey fungus
•
(i amillaria mellea), one of the common
toadstools which attacks the roots and
basal portions, weakening the tree and
eventually killing it. Vic. Department of
Agriculture biologists advise that when
forest-clearing for horticultural purposes
trees should be ringbarked in the autumn
prior to felling, thus making any roots
less liable to infection. Wooden stakes,
fencing-posts and underground drains may
be attacked by the fungus and all should
be creosoted before putting in the ground.
“Plane Creek”: I used to be a great
one for turning cockroaches out for the
poultry to eat, but I’ve had veterinary
advice to the effect that it’s a dangerous
practice. The cockroach is a carrier of
eyeworm, a parasite that gets into the
eyes of fowls and causes blindness. The
parasite, fortunately, is confined to the
wet Q. north coast, so there wouldn’t
be any harm in feeding ’roaches to
southern chocks.
“Coiirtcreek”: Kerosene emulsion will
wipe out all parasites in a hen-house and
discourage others from taking their place.
Make a stock solution by boiling ilb.
of hard soap in 1 gal. of water until
dissolved, then take off the fire and pour
two gallons of kerosene into the mixture
while still hot. Stir' the solution with a
spray pump until a foaming emulsion is
obtained. You may use the mixture
very strong, but a dilution of one part
to six parts of water is highly effective.
If the mixture is sprayed into every crack
and cranny in the house, effects will be
lasting. Dilute with 10 to 15 parts of
water before using the emulsion on fruit
trees, and stir at intervals while spraying
to keep the kerosene mixed with the
water.
“E.M.R.”: Turkeys are not worth
keeping for their eggs but there’s profit
in them for table purposes. Eggs take 28
days to hatch. The young poults require
crushed grain, hard-boiled eggs and
minced onion tops, all mixed together.
Later, finely cut lettuce can be added to
the feed. The main thing seems to be
freedom from damp, as once they get wet
and cold mortality is high.


City architect
gives timely advice to
Home Planners
Sp-4
Be sure to consult an archi-
tect before bifilding your
home. You will save his
fee many times over as the
years go by because he will
save you from making the
mistakes which lead to costly
repairs. Here is some advice
in advance from a leading
city architect. /
v^ y ,
m
Big home or small?
Don’t try to build a big home
if you’ve got to use cheap
materials to cover the cost.
Any good architect can design
you a home that will be small
and attractive to start off with
and which can be added to
as your family grows.
Cane-ite walls and ceilings
are so simple and inexpensive
to instal they stretch your
home-building budget much
further.
* * *
Ground plan
A simple ground plan cuts
building costs.
* * *
Spaciousness and dignity
Keep your exterior simple
big windows and a beautiful
entrance can give even the
smallest home an appearance
of spaciousness and dignity.
Continue this impression in-
side with the clean-cut look
that Cane-ite walls and ceilings
give to a room. You can
paint or Kalsomine over Cane-
ite. And there is an Ivory
Cane-ite for ceilings.
♦ ♦ ♦
Warmth and coolness
The temperature of your rooms
is as important to your
comfort as their lighting,
furnishing or shape. Cane-
ite walls and ceilings insulate
against summer heat and
winter cold make it much
easier to keep an even tem-
perature all the year. Cane-
ite is easy and inexpensive to
instal and stretches your homer
building budget much further.
Insulate and Decorate with
Wails and Ceilings
Sold by hardware stores and timber merchants everywhere.
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Would that I had spoken then and
therfe. The following day the milkman
disappeared. Vanished! Just like that,
His cart was found outside our gate, and
the police haunted our place for days
making all kinds of investigations and
asking all sorts of questions. They finally
decided that the poor fellow was schizo-
phrfenic or was suffering from amnesia,
I knew what had happened, but I was
afraid to disclose my knowledge in case
Grandfather was arrested for murder or
charged with harboring a dangerous
criminal.
AFTER that I was as careful as an ex-
plorer in a snake-infested jungle. I
kept my dreadful secret, but never went
near the choko vine—it knew that I knew,
and as I sat at the dining table I could
see its trailers waving balefully outside
the dining-room window. I had to lock
my bedroom window at night. When I
heard the cats wailing outside I knew that
what sounded like their amorous articu-
lations were really the dying shrieks of
the poor beasts as the choko vine seized,
strangled and hid them in the green
jungle of its leaves.
Then Mrs. Baillie’s Willie disappeared
—the day before I had seen him picking
young chokos from the vine to throw at
his brother’s pigeons. Mrs. Baillie swore
that he had been kidnapped. “The
poor little lamb was just playing down
there by the choko vine in the sun,” she
told the police. “I saw him myself from
the window not five minutes before those
brutes grabbed him.”
The police discounted the kidnapping
theory after seeing a photograph of
Willie, and after discovering that his
father had an overdraft with an s.p.
bookmaker. It was finally concluded that
the child had crawled down the storm-
water pipe in the next street and had been
washed out to sea.
Where I might have had some doubts
before, I was now absolutely certain.
There were all manner of strange noc-
turnal happenings. Garbage-tins were
overturned and their contents scattered
all over the place, other plants were up-
rooted and thrown over the fence, and
both eggs and chickens began disappear-
ing from the fowlhouse—which, by this
time, was covered with choko vine, like
everything else.
I wanted to warn my grandfather, but
didn’t know how to approach him about
it. Then I realised he was becoming sus-
picious himself. I think he and the vine
must have shared some kind of affinity,
and that he had come to sense its latent
hostility and even, perhaps, its canni-
balism. At any rate, when a passer-by*
knocked on our door and complained
that the vine had ripped off his hat and
nearly strangled him, Grandfather did
something he had never done before —
took out" his shears and pruned the vine
most severely.
L_J E should have known better. Two
1 t nights later when he was de-snailing
his cucumbers a hairy feeler suddenly
gripped his ankle and threw him to the
ground. He was badly shaken, and only
by using his pitchfork as an ice-pick was
he able to save himself from being drawn
into the green hungiy maw of the vora-
cious vegetable which he had nourished
from a seedling.
I had been standing beside him holding
the lamp when it happened, and he
realised that I knew the terrible secret
of the vine. White and trembling, he
whispered to me, “Get the axe quick
while I hold it at bay with the fork.”
Afraid of the menace that was all
around us, I ran to the woodshed and
sped back with the axe. Grandfather
seized it and attacked the vine. By the
light of the lamp he cut and hacked and
chopped until he was gasping for breath
and the perspiration was running off him.
When he could do no more he leaned
on the axe and said: “That’ll do for
tonight. Sonny. Tomorrow we’ll cut it
right out and burn it. But don’t tell any-
one.”
I went to bed, but couldn’t sleep for a
long time. Then, when I dozed off, I
kept waking from nightmares in which I
felt the hairy tendrils of the vine twining
themselves around my throat. I had just
fallen off far the fifth time when I heard
a terrible commotion from Grandfather’s
room. There was the noise of a terrific
struggle and Grandfather was shouting
for help.
As I rushed to his room I heard him
gasping for breath above the insidious,
deadly rustle of leaves, but by the time
j reached his room and turned on the
uht there were on , hjs rumplcd she els
overturned c hair to show wh at
~,,T u a * oc
had happened. I rushed outside, but as
* r f n down the gar f" 1 “ 1 J
drd me around the throat - Then 1
taia „ T , ~ , , ..
, When I recovered Mother and the
doctor were b ™ d f ™ e - Poor b° y i . sde
) vas saying. He:s had a terrible fnght.
W e knew Grandfather was getting old,
but we never realised his miryl was slip-
ping-”
And that was the opinion of the police
and the neighbors. Grandfather was
never found. The choko vinfe died
presumably from an overdose of Grand-
father. We moved from the neighborhood
because, although they didn’t say so,
everyone thought that Grandfather had
done away with both the milkman and
little Willie and, finally, in a burst of
homicidal fury, his garden and then him-
self,
It’s a libel, of course. He was a lovable,
kindly old fellow, and I always think of
him when I eat chokos.,
A MIXED GRILL.
“Returned Empty”; How do pegged
land prices affect this transaction?
During the last year of the war we
prisoners in the civilian camp, Sime-road,
Singapore, were a sorry lot. Our guards
ran a blackmarket of sizable dimensions.
They would buy from us jewellery,
watches and fountain pens at inflated
prices, sell them in the town at at least 100
per cent, profit and buy food for resale to
us at another 100 per cent. We could
buy an egg for about £A4 and an ounce
of sugar for six shillings. A pal of mine
sold a heavy gold signet ring to a Nip
for $2500 (approximately £A4OO).
Half of this he laid out in eats and
smokes. With the other half he bought
from a fellow-internee a building block
in a Sydney suburb. The transaction was
handled by a lawyer for a fee of one
egg and five cheroots, the original deeds
being transferred all shipshape and
Bristol fashion. Vendor, purchaser and
lawyer all survived the internment.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Cheering news for dipso-
maniacs and other unfortunates comes
from America, where the scientists are
reported to have discovered tracks from
the brain which control the emotions.
Nerve-impulses travelling along these
tracks determine our emotions. If a par-
ticular tendency becomes a habit it wears
a track which the impulses will follow,
and the surgeons say that some day it
will be possible to chart these tracks so
that an expert surgeon will be able to
sever a track that serves an undesirable
habit which the patient would willingly
get rid of. If so, it would mean that the
surgeons could go methodically through
a patient and by a series of simple opera-
tions rid him of one set of associa-
tions after another, and the psychologists
would have to go out of business, unless,
of course, the patient started making a
new track. The scientists are silent on
this point.
* * * *
“Uramao”; Red tape, is it? During
the war, hearkening to an appeal by the
Maoriland Government to use old enve-
lopes to conserve paper supplies, I turned
my used ones inside out and dispatched
my Bulletin contributions. Back came
one envelope that had been opened by
the censor, with the intimation that used
envelopes were not permitted overseas.
Exasperated at a topical item being side-
tracked, I wrote to the department de-
manding a refund of my twopence. A
few days later two P.O. officials arrived at
my place in a truck. I was not at home. A
few more days elapsed and the same two
called again, when a sheaf of corres-
pondence concerning the complaint was
submitted to my inspection. I signed a
document, as requested, and handed the
officer the returned envelope. A fortnight
later the same truck and men pulled up
at my place ; I signed a receipt for the
tuppence and two bright pennies were
placed in my paw.
* * ♦ •
“V. Cluse”: Jephson awoke on a re-
cent humid night with a thirst, blundered
through the house to the refrigerator,
saw a glass of water therein and downed
it. Back to bed he informed his wife
that there was nothing like ice-cold water
for a thirst and went to sleep. Next
day he felt very well at work and, when
he got home and found his offspring in
a heated argument, was in a good mood
to settle it. He separated them, bade
them be quiet and then invited the elder
to explain. “Well,” said the boy, bitterly,
“I was making an experiment. I put
a glass of water in the frig, last night,
with a big slug in it that I caught in the
garden and” —but at that point Jephson
experienced a sudden change in his con-
dition and withdrew.
» * * •
“Melton”; That the clearance of war
surpluses isn’t always a prosaic business
was demonstrated when the Disposals
Commission sold two batches of re-
volvers. The first lot went to U.N.R.R.A.
officials to help dissuade Chinese pirates
from trying to loot precious cargoes of
food and medical equipment. The second
lot, duly rendered innocuous, will provide
a touch of realism when flourished by
the Rangers in yet another revival of
“Rio Rita.”
* * * •
“Hamer”: Some drunks swell to
absurd dignity as they imbibe; the
queerest instance I recall was a remittance
man in the days when remittance men
were a feature of the Australian land-
scape. Quarterday liked to mix with
Bohemians and was welcome among them
while his allowance lasted. After a few
drinks he owned the world, and his great
desire was to visit its wide-flung pubs.
He had cabs called to convey himself and
his pals from bar to bar. There was no
overcrowding. Our lordly friend even
objected to travelling in the same cab as
his own overcoat and stick; there was
always a special conveyance to carry
those. Quarterday and his chief guest
travelled by the leading harisom, his hat
and coat followed in the next and the rest
of his pals came after that —a noble pro-
cession which usually had to travel no
further than 50 yards, Quarterday’s
affluence never lasted long, but he enjoyed
it while it did last.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Nakh”; Verbal misunderstandings can
often be unconsciously apt as well as
funny. Daryl Lindsay, Director of the
National Gallery in Melbourne, was in-
troducing Professor Burke, the “Herald”
Professor of Fine Art at the University
of ■ Melbourne, preparatory to the occu-
pant of the new chair delivering a lecture
on Art and Life or something of that
sort. When he had finished an old lady
leant over and whispered loudly to a
well-known painter: “Young man, can
you tell me what this Chairified Art is
the gentleman’s been speaking about?”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Australia is no nearer enter-
taining itself theatrically than it ever was.
Last year 2064 standard-size films were
imported to the country, 49.2 p.c. from
U.S.A- and 24.5 p.c. from U.K. By con-
trast, 99 p.c. of pictures at art shows were
painted by indigenous artists, although
the discrepancy between what they made
and what importers of celluloid amass
is colossal.
* * * *
“Ex-Q.M.”: When American and
Aussie units were acting in concert, much
confusion was caused by the different
names each had for similar items of
equipment. Some —as cot for our
stretcher —were easily understood, but I
was dumbfounded one day when a Yank
came seeking a skillet. I would have
turned him away empty-handed had he
not pointed to the utensil hanging on the
wall —a frying-pan.


110 X3OHI AXISO3SIA H9IH
m
IStfd Vldt/JS mojJ
ensures instant, complete lubrication
e
mm
& nA
48&S4S’ "• & S
:iSP' w «h
. y ana-.'
* . ipliii
s *., Cl f
~,,? # ' ' / '
Right from the instant your engine responds to the starter, you get safe,
complete lubrication with Neptune H.V.I. Motor Oil. For Neptune H.V.I.
Motor Oil possesses a high viscosity index
—it retains its free-flowing properties at
low temperatures and its "body" at high
temperatures, protecting every moving
part from start to fast,
,
HIGH VISCOSITY INDEX is simply this.
Some oils, like treacle, may thin out very
quickly under heat and thicken or congeal
when cooled —these have a low viscosity
index. The oil which retains its free-flowing
properties at low temperatures and its
"body" at high temperatures has a high
viscosity index.
Get Neptune H.V.I. Motor Oil from your
local service station.
.
'
NEPTUNE OIL CO. PIT. LTD.
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
MARKETERS OF QUALITY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA SINCE
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS REMY MARTIN BRANDI
“Hanlon on Pie.”
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail” heading.
And very likely on toast after May 3.
A? *l* *l* ~
“Extra strong child’s playground, 15/-.”
—Hornsby “Advocate’ 1 ’ (Sydney.)
Present occupant has taken to reefing
the dowells out.
* 4* •!• 4* 4 1
“Wanted to buy Pearls, loose, or strung, in
good condition, up to 4d. each paid.”
—Suburban paper.
Must be genuine!
•J*
“I say if a woman sins let her take the con-
sequences.”—“New Idea.”
Not leave them on someone else’s door-
step.
4* 4* 4* •i 1
“If you want to become a fun
gallery will oblige for 75 cents.” —“ D.T.”
Some can save themselves this expense.
•J* *l*
“Gov.-General McKell has sent to Scotland
for information about his ancestry.”
It’s things like this that make Caledonia
wild if not stern.
4* 4*
“A woman always gives more thought to
her bridle gown than to any other.”
—Suburban paper.
Well, she wants to put it over without
a hitch.
“A man in America has the unusual job of
removing pencilled moustaches off railway
hoardings.”— Magazine.
Here there’s an opening for a man to
take the whiskers off radio comedians’
gags.
4*
“How to acquire a larger vocabulary in only
15 minutes a day.”— Advt.
Wait outside a public phone box whilst
a woman makes a three-minute call.
Misnomer.
“According to Mr. Richard Chipperfield, of
Hampshire Circus, elephants today are double
their pre-war price, but smaller.”
—"Sunday Telegraph,” Sydney.
When they took Willie to the Zoo
The child, who knew a thing or two
(Or thought he did) about the size
That would surprise his goggling eyes
When he beheld the elephants,
Demanded with some petulance
Why those with which he was confronted
Appeared to have their stature stunted.
And having heard the self-same word
Used to interpret what occurred
After a gorge of macaroons
Or when you blew into balloons,
The lad’s already loaded brain
Collapsed beneath the sudden strain
Of swallowing the explanation
That this was also termed inflation.
P. M. LUSK
Charm.
“Airline hostesses are rubbing beer in their
hair.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
'Twas not the soft light in her eyes
That took my senses by surprise,
Nor did her scrumptious cheeks or lips
Inveigle me on needless trips
Athwart the sky, intoxicated
When she was near. Then what created
in my fond heart this wild devotion ? •
One. whiff of her divine hair-lotion !
D. H. E.
The President Speaks.
Gentlemen, —I have called this meet-
ing of the Amalgamated Employers be-
cause, helping my son with his home-
work, I discovered the cause of our recent
nation-wide upheavals. To illustrate my
theme, “Science on the Mat,” I use an
anecdote:
“Miss Jones,” said the science profes-
sor, “would you tell the class what happens
immediately a body is immersed in water?”
“Sure,” replied Miss Jones; “the telephone
rings.”
Gentlemen, writers of our physics text-
books have become apprehensive. “If
Miss Jones,” they declare, “can do that to
Archimedes, what will happen to
our edicts?” Well might they be worried,
for their rules are about such unstable
utilities as electricity, gas and motive
power. Before we become involved in
more strikes affecting them I propose to
expose the real ringleaders: they are,
gentlemen, Messrs. Ohm, Boyle and
Newton.
Take “Bunnerong” Ohm:
Strength of an unvarying electric current
is directly proportional to the electro-
motive force, and inversely proportional
to the resistance.
“Gas-house” Boyle:
Volume of gas is inversely proportional
to the pressure.
“Tramway” Newton: —,
A body continues in a state of rest or
uniform motion unless acted upon by an
external force.
Now I come to the crux of the matter
—the doctrines of Marx. They are all
incitements to resistance, pressure and
force!
In effect, our children listen to
volumes of gas about currents and pul-
leys, and with their juvenile resistance
and their minds kept in a state of
uniform motion by the teacher they soak
up those doctrines and grow up into strike
leaders. There you have it, gentlemen.
I thank you.
COL.
"Conditions Perfect.”
“Mr. Calwell described as exaggerated re-
ports that slum conditions existed on the
migrant ship Misr when it reached Fremantle
from the Middle East with 620 passengers,
mostly European aliens. The Minister, who
made a special trip to the West to see for
himself, returned without having boarded the
ship.”
The Eggsacook (Capt. Ali Ahmed
Oink) had arrived at an Australian port
with another large consignment of Cal-
“Skite!"
veil’s “hand-picked” reffos. As it came
flown the harbor a gull injudiciously flew
over the deck ; it gave a loud squawk
an fl plummeted into the water, asphyxi-
ated.
In an interview over the side as the
wa§ gett i n g pra tique, the Gyppo
captain, who was clad in sandals, blue
fl ungareeS) an o ifl football guernsey and
a bowler hat, described the accommoda-
tion as “high class,” with emphasis on
. „ There had been &n average
G nly 17 brawls a day among the
passengers, the crew, or among passengers
and crew. He attributed this unusual
fulness to the good temper occa-
*
sioned by the splendid food —potato-
soup twice a day and one meal of sauer-
kraut and spaghetti. He denied allegations
by some passengers that the cook’s socks
had several times been found in the stew.
Only one pair of socks, the cook’s only
pair, had been found, and not in the stew
—in the soup. It was because the diner
who got the socks had stuck to them that
the crew had recourse to mutiny, resulting
in a riot during which one passenger, who
had fled from Germany two months ago
with only two pfennigs in his pocket,
had had stolen from him a bucketful of
diamond rings.
Apart from this minor incident,
the voyage had been enjoyed thoroughly,
and everybody had expressed satisfaction
and thought the fare, £275, was cheap.
Later that day, when the ship had tied
up to the wharf and after it had been
sprayed with several barrels of D.D.T.,
the Melbourne Master Mind went aboard.
As an earnest of that true democratic
freedom of which his “Government” was
so enthusiastic a sponsor, he permitted a
reporter from a paper which “sometimes
reflected the ‘Labor’ viewpoint” to accom-
pany him.
“There, you see?” observed Arthur,
waving his hands about in a manner
strangely resembling that of his Chosen
proteges. “Vot —I mean, what—is wrong
with that?” He indicated a still reek-
ing hold which had accommodated 200
passengers on the 8000-mile voyage. It
was illuminated by a single smoking
camel-fat lamp. “It’s restful, there is no
glare on the eyes, and it is subject to far
less ship movement down there than a
stateroom in the Queen Elizabeth when
it is ploughing through an Atlantic gale.
Certainly they all had to sleep standing,
up, but isn’t that more hygenic than lying
all over each other?”
“There doesn’t seem to be any furniture
or fittings here,” remarked the reporter
as they came to the stripped lounge-
room.” ~ A , ~ ~
“I understand,” said Arthur blandly,
“that one of the ship’s officers sold it to
a syndicate among the passengers. That
was it you saw going over the side in
slings as we came aboard. There s no
doubt,” he went on enthusiastically, “they
have keen business intellects, these new
citizens of ours. Our economic body
badly needs an infusion of new blood.
“That doesn’t look too good, does it,
Mr. Calwell?” said the reporter, as they
came to the dining-room. Every win-
dow was smashed and sauerkraut and
spaghetti clung to the panelling where it
had obviously hit and run down.
“It’s probably the passengers’ idea of
decoration,” replied Arthur easily. “No
doubt they regard our method of using
flowers as being uncivilised. It will be
the privilege of my department to edu-
cate them in these matters.”
As they moved into the communal
bathroom a group of swarthy, bearded
men in greasy ankle-length overcoats and
bowler hats pulled down'over their ears
brushed past the Melbourne Master Mind
as he pointed to the four washbasins.
“There!” exclaimed Arthur trium-
phantly. “So much for those foul
charges of inadequate washing ac-
commodation. There were 690 pas-
sengers, and I am reliably informed
by my officers that only three
of them washed. That means there was
actually a basin to spare! Admittedly
there was no soap on board, but the only
inconvenience this caused was that the
children couldn’t play at blowing
bubbles.”
As the Master Mind and the reporter
stepped over the pile of empty tins,
dough, mouldy fat and crusts that littered
the writing-room, a bearded, swarthy,
scrofulous-looking passenger in a greasy
ankle-length overcoat and bowler hat
over his ears stopped them, looked fur-
tively around and produced a timepiece.
“You Aussie shentlemans can ’ave this
for ten kvid,” he whispered hoarsely. “It
vunce belong to old Thuringian noble.
Eighteen carat gold, Swiss moofment,
blenty chewels”
Arthur peered closer, then his eyes
popped out like organ stops. In his
astonishment he fell naturally into the
speech of his beloved proteges.'
“Yell, vot do y’ know!” he exclaimed
to nobody in particular. “If it ain’t me
own votch!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
ONLY P.-0.-w.
No one, least of all European ex-
prisoners, will deny the privations suffered
by prisoners in Japanese hands. How-
ever, it is unfortunate that the public
has been deluded into believing that
prisoners in Europe spent a delightful
four years’ vacation on the Continent, and
that officer-prisoners in particular had a
topping time. Most of the ex-p.-0.-w.
arrived home from Europe just as the
Japanese were crumbling and when all at-
tention was focused on our prisoners in
the Far East. Thus the Australian people
received very little first-hand information
regarding the sufferings of the men from
Europe.
Mr. Chifley implies that officers lived
in luxury in the Tyrol (B. 2/4/’47). I don’t
believe that any large proportion of Aus-
tralian officers were in Austria for any
length of time. Some were in Bavaria,
but only for the last two years or so. Has
Mr. Chifley ever heard of the infamous
Salonika camp, where officers and men
subsisted for the first few months of their
captivity on horseflesh-soup and bread,
where indiscriminate shooting by German
sentries was a nightly occurrence and
where there were more vermin to the
square inch than could be imagined?
Has he read the medical reports on the
physical condition of the prisoners, when,
after six to twelve months’ captivity, they
received their first Red Cross parcels?
. Has he heard of the Nazi soldiers who,
set loose in a certain prison camp, bashed
down British and Australian officers with
rifle butts? Has he heard of the suicides
in one officers’ camp—deaths which
moved the German High Command to
give the inmates some relief from their
cramped conditions? Has he heard of
the troops who worked in saltmines and
factories? Or has he heard only of the
few who enjoyed the comparatively good
conditions of a German farmhouse?
Perhaps he has been deluded by the
German photographs of a swimming-
pool in one camp which, though only
about 12ft. square, was made to appear
of Olympic proportions. A tiny ice-rink
scooped out of the snow was similarly
enlarged by photographic ingenuity.
Regarding Mr. Chifley’s allusions to
our “safety,” does he know how many
camps, including officers’ camps, were
subjected to bombing and machine-
gunning by Allied air forces? Does he
know that General Kurt Wolf was re-
cently sentenced to seven years’ jail for
exposing British prisoners to air-raids?
Is he aware of the strafing from our own
’planes when we were on forced marches?
Does he know that thousands of Aus-
tralian officers and men were forced to
march varying distances across Germany
in order to prevent their being released
by the advancing Allies? That there were
many who spent their last three months
in Germany marching, first, westwards
through deep snow from the approaching
Russians, and then eastwards away from
the American advance? How many of
those who dropped out from sheer ex-
haustion perished in the snow or were
finished off by a bullet?
Perhaps the Prime Minister will ask
one of his five Defence Ministers to obtain
the necessary reports on these matters, —
Ex-Kriegsgefangener (W.A.).
You always have to pay for things,
but, like all ex-p.-0.-w., I object to the
cold qash which it cost myself and my
relatives for me to be a p.-o-w. In case
anyone thinks that I should not have
surrendered, I might mention that when
our aircraft was blown out of the sky,
four of the crew of seven hit the ground
alive. Alone, unarmed, wounded, burned
and 200 miles from England I was cap-
tured by two armored motor-cycles and
eight heavily-armed soldiers controlled
by two officers. Errol Flynn might have
escaped.
From that day on I was slugged. The
R.AA..F. stopped £6 per month because
the Jerries handed out the equivalent
amount of Lagergeld —tokens for reichs-
marks, the purchasing power of which
was useless to us. After a while the
Jerries did not hand out the money, but
kept a book credit for it. One-third of
this credit we donated to n.c.os., mem-
bers of the Merchant Marine and Russian
p.-0.-w., who were worse off than our-
selves and who could buy stuff for the
money. Most of the remaining two-thirds
was taken back by the Jerries to pay for
damage caused to German property by
our attempts to escape.
Over three years £2OO was docked
from my pay and I was given a refund
of £6O for reichsmark credit. 'Loss so
far, £l4O. Twelve clothing parcels, of
which I received five, cost £37, I esti-
mate that my mother, brothers and my-
self donated £75 to the Red Cross because
it supplied food to p.-0.-w. I bought
necessities from American p.-0.-w., such
as a leather jacket (£25) and a pair of
second-hand shoes (£ls).' Incidental ex-
penditure on chocolate at £l5-£2O per
pound and cigarettes at £1 for 20 was
paid to American and Canadian p.-0.-w.
Cigarettes at Is. each were traded to
German guards—lo-20 for one egg and
50 for a small loaf of black bread.
Without adding the cost of personal
property taken by the Germans on cap-
ture, it is obvious that it cost me more
than £lOO a year to live as a p.-0.-w.
People in Italian hands were even worse
off—it cost junior officers their full pay
to live.
This is a financial argument for the
refund of subsistence —perhaps politicians
will understand it better than an appeal
on the grounds of humanity.
For the other ranks who were p.-0.-w.
I suggest that, if the Government does
not like to part with their three bob a
day, a commission should be appointed to
work out the prizemoney due fb these
chaps for the sabotage they did. No one
deserves prizemoney more, and a fair
payout like that for the Navy after the
last war would set most ex-p.-0.-w. up for
life. — Kanguhrek (Vic.).
[“Kanguhrek,” as well as “Ex-Kriegs-
gefangener,” gets prize rates.]
Health v. Politics
Brisbane’s reputation as Australia’s
most insanitary capital city has been
getting some more limelight. Its City
Medical Officer resigned recently, stating,
amongst other reasons for his action, his
disinclination to continue serving under
a sanitary inspector as his official
superior, neglect by the City Council to
enforce its own by-laws and combined
neglect by the Council and the State
Health Department to take proper steps
for the control of tuberculosis.
Minister of Health Foley thereupon
slated the Council for failure to enforce
the Health Acts in its area, particularly
with respect to demolition of rat-harbor-
age, rat-proofing of buildings and exer-
cise of its powers for bringing the mos-
quito nuisance under control. Vice-
Mayor Moon tartly replied that the
Council’s rat-gang had killed 29 rats at
the Government’s police court buildings
last January, and that the Council’s letter
requesting specified jobs of rat-proofing
there hadn’t even been acknowledged.
Nor had a gross nuisance at the Queens-
land University’s Physiology Department
been attended to, although reported.
“Labor” Councillors thought that the
whole uproar was due to a “disgruntled
medical officer” who wanted a bigger
screw. Meanwhile, rats, nuisances, mos-
quitoes and the spread of tuberculosis
apparently carry on as before. — Puyyaka
(Q-).
Timber
“Sugar” (B. 19/3/’47) describes as
“useless” a hill covered with “good pine
and other building timbers,” and suitable
for cultivation when cleared. His idea
of really useful land must be worth seeing.
He implies that he imported Oregon pine.
In the first place, Oregon is not easy to
import in this casual manner, and, second,
when you can get it it is 201 s. per 100
super feet, which puts housebuilding
right out of the question unless “S.” is a
millionaire. As a contrast, jarrah ex bush
mills, Westralia, is 30s. per 100 super feet
—one-seventh the price of imported
Oregon.
“Sugar” would be most ill-advised to
start sawmilling operations in the round
with a “few odds and ends of machinery.”
You need an absolute minimum of 30
horsepower before you can even think
of breaking down logs, and small ones
at that; 80 h.p. is the accepted figure
for a “spot” mill with twins and a big-
bench. The ironwork, shafting, bear-
ings, pulleys, belting, woodwork and saws
would run away with £lOOO before you
could turn round. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
Democracy
South Australia, in spite of strikes,
shortages and other man-made or natural
handicaps, has put on its best and biggest
industrial exhibition.
The million-pound Show is a cross-
section of the productive activity of the
State, from machinery to needlework, and
from music to cosmetics. The bewilder-
ing display of human ingenuity and
energy is almost entirely the outcome of
private enterprise; the progress shown
in every department is the result of keen
competition ; the sum total is a triumph
for our much-maligned educational
system.
Every item exhibited, utilitarian or
artistic, owes its existence to the profit
motive, and the prosperous look of the
thousands who come to see and admire
is a proof that the profits are widely
shared.
Many of the important exhibitors were
once wage-earners in humble trades or
callings. Their promotion has been due
to their own efforts and their ability to
offer something more beautiful or useful
“Wot —SHIFT IT? But I've just had the electricity and water connected !”
or cheaper than could be produced by
others. Their success proves that
democracy does not keep good men
down, but offers rich prizes to those who
are willing as well as ambitious.
Visitors of all classes ought to be
proud of such a monument to their own
industry. There are few who have not
contributed in some measure to its success
by their work in schools, factories, or
farms, and all will benefit from the mag-
nificent advertisement of their varied
skills.i— Worker (S.A.).
“An Economic Blessing”
“If you’re a family man, children are
an economic blessing to you, not an
economic hazard.” So runs an appealing
sentence in a R.A.A.F, advertisement call-
ing for skilled tradesmen. But what an
indictment of Australia it is!
Here we are, living in a country en-
dowed with rich natural resources and a
splendid climate and lacking only popu-
lation to be great and powerful. Yet
children are “an economic hazard.”
Everyone knows it—the breadwinner
struggling to make ends meet reluctantly
limits the size of his family. The Gov-
ernments, all sevfen of them, mouth sym-
pathy for the family man, but do nothing
to help him. The Air Force, recog-
nising the unhappy lot of the man whose
quiver is full, seizes on its family allow-
ances and benefits as a prime recruiting
feature. So it is, no doubt, but the pity
is that, outside the services, the plight of
the Australian parent is disregarded.
We will have to populate the country
with our own offspring or another more
prolific race will take it from us. The
will to multiply and to undertake the
cares and trials that the large family
brings must be fostered and strengthened.
But, most important, the large family
must once more bfecorpe an economic
possibility.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Anzac Day
We servicemen of the 1939-45 war
can’t say that we weren’t warned about
our fate when the war ended. Didn’t the
Old Diggers tell us often enough how
the bands played and the crowds cheered
in 1914 and 1915 and how politicians
made high-sounding promises for their
welfare “after the war”? Didn’t the
Old Diggers tell us just how they were
treated in the post-war years? And if
we read between the lines of our history
books couldn’t we have found support
for their statements?
But we were young and the bands
played as we marched through the cheer-
ing crowds, and we thought that this
time it would be different —though some
of us did mutter “Oh yeah” as we listened
to politicians’ speeches.
Now, nearly two years after the end
of the war, we have lost the anger that
came with disillusionment. We have
kissed goodbye to our deferred pay —
gone mostly in searches for homes and
clothing that were not to be had. We
have realised that Repat. assistance
meant a lot of mucking about, ending
in the offer of a pick-and-shovel job. We
have seen our wives struggling to keep
us fed through strikes which meant they
could get little to cook and no gas to
cook it and no current for the electric
iron when baby’s clothes were in the
wash. And, in the distance, we can
hear war threats again.
Still, most of us are battling along.
Those of us who remember the depres-
sion know that there have been harder
times. And we wouldn’t have liked to
have been out of the war, because we
should have missed that finest mateship
of all. Time is dimming the memory
of many experiences, but we clearly
remember our mates.
But some of us find that Anzac Day
marches, with lip-service by politicians
and others who have never heard a shot
fired, with newspaper ballyhoo and
arguments and with all the sham of a
grateful country’s alleged thanks, are
hardly to our liking.—C. R. (N.S.W.).
Moving In
Ninety-two years ago three banks
opened for business in a goldfields town
when it was more or less in the canvas
stage and gold was being won in large
quantities. The three banks provided a
much-needed service to the diggers, and
gave them a fair price for their gold so
that they were no longer at the mercy
of sharks. Years went by and the gold
gave out. Most of the miners departed
for other fields, and the town was then
dependent on farming and grazing on the
indifferent auriferous land surrounding
the town.
Good seasons and bad alternated and
the town, went into the doldrums. How-
ever, the three banks stuck to it and
financed the struggling farmers so that
eventually many of them made good.
They had built solid premises in the town,
maintained staffs and paid rates and taxek
over the 92 years. As the town was a
centre and had enterprising citizens
secondary industries were started, and tq|-
day, after all its ups and downs, the old
place is reasonably stable.
The three banks are still there, blit an-
other one has come to town —the Com-
monwealth Bank—with the job of imple-
menting “Labor’s” pledge that private
banking will be abolished. First step in
the “killing” is the purchase of a free-
hold in the best part of the main street.
Before finally selecting the site, the bank
frightened the life out of old-estab-
lished shopkeepers by announcing that it
had power to resume compulsorily any
place that took its fancy.
The decision having been made a price
was paid which, had the buyer been a
private individual, would have been
vetoed by the delegate to the Treasurer.
However, the Commonwealth Bank is
above such restrictions on inflation. As
one of the occupants of the shops bought
has a long lease still to run out, and as
even a Commonwealth Bank hasn’t the
hide to attempt building while the hous-
ing shortage remains acute, temporary
prefabricated premises have been put up.
They arrived by large motor-trucks, fol-
lowed by the necessary stationery and
equipment.
During the erection of the prefabri-
cated premises the borough council served
notice on the builders to cease work, as
the building did not conform, to any of
the building regulations. This, of course,
was waste of time and ignored, as once
again the bank is above such petty inter-
ference with its activities.
The next move was an announcement
from Canberra that all State bodies must
transfer their business to the Common-
wealth Bank as soon as possible. It
matters little that ever since the town was
a town the private banks have given ex-
cellent service to these various State
bodies. The new bank is unnecessary and
unwanted, and it is grossly unfair that
it should come in and, with Government
assistance, scoop the pool after all the
pioneering has been done by the private
banks.
The one cheerful thing about the whole
business is that the public seems in no
way interested in changing its bank.
'Many of the older residents—and they
are usually the ones with the cash —are
suspicious of anything “Government”
where their money and private business
is concerned. And many have a sense of
gratitude and appreciation for what the
private banks have done for them and
the district. — Nugget (Vic.),


New Field for Preference
With Sydney’s Garden Island dockyard
notoriously exposed to Communists and
their foul propaganda, why not employ
ex-naval men, such as Ordnance arti-
ficers in the gun-mounting depart-
ment, engineroom artificers in engine-
rooms, telegraphists on radio sets, and so
on? Each man worked on the machines
he’s lived with and operated under all
conditions for 12 years or more. Warrant
officers in the various branches would
make excellent foremen.
With a sense of discipline and a sense
of fair play which would ensure an
honest day’s work for a day’s pay (I’ve
seen a destroyer’s engineroom staff sweat
in shifts continuously for five days to
boiler-clean their ship in dangerous
waters), strikes would be non-existent. A
quick repair service would result, plus a
saving in so-called “danger money”—
paid to dockyard workers who, on ship
trials, go bravely sailing out past Sydney
Heads. There would be close co-opera-
tion between ship’s staff and dockyard,
obviating ridiculous situations like that
aboard a frigate recently where a couple
of torpedomen, the ship’s electricians,
almost caused a strike by obligingly dis-
connecting electric leads of a gun that
had to be lifted out.
The R.A.N. would have, in an emer-
gency, a solid core of trained men, who,
instead of having gone outside into a
grocery business when their time expired,
would be completely up-to-date with all
the latest modifications in fighting ships’
equipment. And, most important from
a recruiting angle, a man on completion
of his 12 years would bfe assured of a
good job, and not hounded by the exist-
ing bugbear of what to do in an outside
world grown strange during his years
at sea.— Macnell (R.A.N,).
Wharf Strikes
The Australian community seems to
stand t helpless while the Waterside
Workers’ Federation wages persistent and
successful war on it. Yet the remedy is
surprisingly simple. The wharfies derive
their power from the Arbitration Act,
which gives them preference and makes
their union a close corporation.
Whenever they strike their union
should be promptly deregistered. This
would mean that their preference and
close corporation would be gone and
that work on the wharves, at Arbitration
rates, would be open to anyone. Any
able-bodied man would do, for there is
neither trade nor skill nor much physical
strength required in modern “lumping.”
Once deregistered, the union should
be kept deregistered for at least a couple
of years. No more of this remitting “the
boys” their fines and the like. — Old
Unionist (W.A.).
Wool for Japan
“K.Mc.” (B. 2/4/’47) evidently pre-
fers. commonsense to sentiment when he
advocates the supply of wool to the Japs.
Before 1914, Norman Angell proved by
simple arithmetic that post-war indem-
nities were a delusion and a snare. He
taught that for every . shilling squeezed
from the vanquished nation the victor
would lose two shillings.
After the knockout France demanded
German coal and ruined her own mines.
Britain demanded customs as well as
goods. German factories buzzed while
English workers were unemployed. Hav-
ing proved by trial and error that Norman
Angell was right to a fraction of a penny
the conquerors reversed gear and began
pouring money into Germany. They
were convinced of the obvious, that one
rotten apple in a case is bad for the lot.
The experiment may have satisfied poetic
justice, but it cost the world its second
Great War.
The Boer War was fought bitterly, but
was followed by a real peace. Hands
were shaken across the sea. Trade was
resumed. That policy has paid incal-
culable dividends to the British Empire
through two Great Wars. The atom bomb
did not disrupt the laws of economics.
We may not love our enemy. We can-
not exterminate him. If we can get him
to toil and spin for our mutual benefit we
will be doing something towards estab-
lishing peace and prosperity in the
Pacific. —Nous (S.A.).
The Wheat Commission
The appointment by the Federal Gov-
ernment of a commission to inquire into
the wheat industry, and costs of produc-
tion, is another prime example of passing
the buck.
In 1933 or thereabouts I remember
seeing Herbert Gepp and an extensive
retinue arrive at a small town on Eyre
Peninsula (S.A.). They established them-
selves in the local hall and for about
four days heard evidence covering the
ramifications of the man on the land.
This concourse of costly officials travelled
all over Australia gathering data which,
I understand, was eventually collected into
a voluminous report and filed with the
department concerned. It’s still filed.
I grew up on a wheat farm and jrave
spent nearly 30 years in banks in agricul-
tural areas and I know that commissions
do little good for the wheat-farmer. The
costs of growing wheat, vary so much
and are governed by so many factors —
including type of land, rainfall, distance
from markets, size of the farm and the
human element—that any general sum-
mary of the business is impossible. A
farmer’s ability to develop other avenues
of revenue, such as growing df oats,
barley, etc., and carrying sheep, cattle,
pigs and poultry, all enter into the matter.
They may be only a side issue, but they
have an important bearing ®n the overall
aspect of making a farm a payable pro-
position.
My suggestion is that wheat-farmers
be guaranteed ss. per bushel at their
nearest railway siding or point of delivery
for, say, 10 years. The question of mar-
ginal lands should be handled firmly and
courageously by each State to eliminate
those uneconomic areas from payment
of Government grants. Such a policy
would obviate many of the farmer’s diffi-
culties, particularly if settlers in marginal
areas were not eligible for State assist-
ance when droughts or other troubles-
arise. “Marginal” farming has caused t®o
much trouble and the aid given has meant
substantial losses to taxpayers.
The cost of growing wheat can be
determined satisfactorily by a conference
of State Agricultural Departments, who
have all data available on every phase of
the business. The present wheat com-
mission will assuredly prove as useless as
its predecessor and probably much more
expensive.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Two Farms
I wish Mr. Chifley could visit two ad-
joining farms in Victoria which I saw a
while ago. One, of less than 60 acres, is
run by a man getting up in years. By
hard work and expert farming he has
made good money, but he now refuses to
“work for Chifley.” He runs a few cows,
uses the milk to fatten calves —his own
and his neighbors’— and has a good vege-
table garden for his family’s use. When
relief from taxation comes he will start
work again, re-stock and produce milk
for the market. Meantime he is having
a rest and enjoying himself.
The adjoining farm provides a con-
trast. It is run by a Young Digger,
veteran of the Middle East and New
Guinea campaigns. Tired of waiting for
the Federal or State Governments to do
something about soldier-settlement, he
used all his money to buy the farm and
arranged finance with a private bank.
Working from daylight to dark, seven
days a week, he is making the place pay,
but when the monthly milk cheque comes
along he is not as well off as the Sydney
wharfie with his 44 hours, no overtime,
appearance money and what-have-you.
His constant worry is what will happen
if he gets sick. City life is so easy that it
is impossible even to get a boy to work
on the farm.
So long as we have men like this in our
community Australia still has the chance
of becoming great.— Dutigalla (Vic.).
Education
Millions of pounds were thrown around
Sydney Town Hall when a crowd of
more or less earnest people gathered for
what they called a “New Deal in Educa-
tion Conference.” Mr. Heffron, the
N.S.W. Minister of Education, who
might have been Premier if the Governor-
General had had his way, opened the
betting with £10,500,000, “allotted to
education this year by the State Govern-
ment ; a record amount.”
The assembled teachers, unionists,
Communists, journalists and so forth saw
the bet and raised him to £17,000,000,
“necessary to finance education this year.”
Mr. Heffron studied his cards again and
went to more than £20,000,000: “It
would cost more than that to bring old
N.S.W. schools up to date; the difficulty
is not in getting the money but in getting
labor and material.”
This steadied the other players, but
only momentarily. Remembering that
elections were in the offing and that Mr.
Heffron’s political party was almost in
the discard, they raised the ante to
£100,000,000, to be got by “a Federal
grant for education in Australia.”
Here Mr. Heffron apparently threw
in his hand and the N.D.E.C. went on
with its business, winding up with several
resolutions ranging from censure of a
Sydney daily newspaper to a decision to
form “campaign committees” to promote
a New Deal for Education.
Government schooling in Australia
needs radical reform. The evidence of that
is piled up on every hand. But calling on
Governments to spend millions won’t do
the job, neither would it be done if
twice .a hundred millions were spent. Re-
form must begin in both the attitude of
the teachers themselves and in the- atti-
tude of the public towards the teachers,
A beginning ought to’be made with a
demand to remove education from the
blight of party politics, which in turn
would remove teachers from the at-
tentions of party politicians and would
remove party adherents from the teaching
profession. The control and administra-
tion of a free and obligatory system of
education should be in the hands of
educationists, themselves above party
politics and in no way dependent upon
or subservient to parties. The absurd
assertion that a teacher must be a trade-
unionist, and the fact that teachers’
organisations have to use the familiar
jargon of unionism in order to obtain
from the community a fair standard of
living, are sufficient evidence in themselves
that the whole system is wrong and a
failure. If any other evidence is needed,
let the observant look around- them. —
O. T. (N.S.W.).
r. a a r-
The R.A.A.F.
In reply to a pressman’s question about
air-freighting food and clothing to British
flood victims “an Air Department spokes-
man” in Melbourne evaded the issue by
stating that the R.A.A.F. did not have
sufficient maintenance personnel to place
enough planes in an airworthy condition
for cargo mission to England.
The mysterious “spokesman” was only
talking about relatively easy-to-maintain
transport planes. It is not hard to
ipiagine just what shape the more highly-
strung operational fighters and bombers
of our Air Force are in. What will be
our chances in the next war, when we
will get about as much warning as did
Londoners of the V.2s, which, arrived
before they heard them coming?— Squizz
(Vic.).
_ . L . _ ,
(Jur Vanishing rreedom
The balance between human freedom
and serfdom is today a very delicate one.
Events of apparently little importance
could, with startling rapidity, snatch every
Queensland citizen’s basic rights away
from him and leave him at the mercy of
a dictator and, furthermore, leave him
with no means of redress. That may seem
a gross overstatement, but few realise the
rapid encroachment by bureaucrats and
Ministers of the Crown upon the rights,
assets and privileges of the citizen.
Act after act is passed enforcing more
surveillence on our actions, insisting on
permits for this and for that, calling upon
us to notify officials about our affairs,
insisting that we are registered in our
callings, demanding that we submit to
inspections of sur bodies, businesses and
homes, insisting that we make “returns”
of many kinds, calling upon us to collect
taxes for the Government, putting our
goods under the control of boards, and
constantly adding many new impositions
“by regulation under the Act.”
We do not particularly notice this con-
stant inroad into our liberties except
where it directly affects us, but the sum
total represents a very great loss of liberty
plus a very great amount of regimenta-
“It does this sometimes when y' put the brakes on too sudden."
tion. And thfe process is a continuous
one.
There is another constant attack being
made on our liberties, and this is on our
right to appeal. Act after act is passed
containing some such clause as “Against
the decision of the Commissioner there
shall be no appfeal.” Sometimes the words
“Minister” or “Court” or “Board” appear
instead of “Commissioner,” but the effect
is the same.
The Transport Commissioner can,
under the State Transport Facilities Act,
take away a carrier’s license and his liveli-
hood and there is no appeal. The carrier
may have paid thousands for the good-
will of his run, but there is no compensa-
tion. There is no appeal from a decision
of the Licensing Commission or of the
Arbitration Court. A man’s land can be
declared a Special Area and the land
then resumed by the Crown at a price
fixed by an official. There is no appeal
against either the resumption or the price,
The vicious system of “averment” has
been introduced, and it is laid down by
law that if an official avers a thing in a
set way the Court must regard that thing
as fact unless it can de disproved. The
Taxation Commissioner can declare that
a taxpayer has not made proper returns,
and that is regarded as proved unless the
taxpayer can prove otherwise. Thus a
man is held to be guilty until he proves
himself innocent—a complete negation of
the British idea of justice,
In Queensland we have a single House
of Parliament because a “Labor” Gov-
ernment abolished the Upper House in
the teeth of ,the people’s opposition,
registered at “Labor’s” own referendum,
The Communist party has only to obtain
control of this single House by as little as
one v o t e to be able to pass any legislation
it "* s h es - It could suspend the existing
Bill of Rights, the Habeas Corpus Act,
an d any other act it wished. It could
p i ace the Government of the State in the
hands of one or more men, at the same
time indemnifying them against any of
their acts. It could set up a Communist
state and seize all property without corn-
pensation, extend the life of the then
Parliament for 20 years, and finally go
into recess for an indefinite period,
That may seem improbable, but don’t
forget the Lang Government in N. S.
Wales, or the fact that it required only
two men to cross the floor of the House
to put Federal “Labor” into office. They
we re later rewarded with the Governor-
ship of Norfolk Island and the Chair-
manship of the Airlines Commission,
There is only one way in which a
citizen can protect himself against the
Government and other citizens, and that
is through the Courts. He must, there-
fore, be guaranteed access to these
Courts, and his basic rights must also be
guaranteed to him in an ironclad Bill
of Rights. The Queensland People’s
party has in its platform a “Bill of
Rights” containing the clause “The
Right of Redress with appeal to all Courts
in all matters.” The Bill will provide that
no Act to suspend, amend, repeal or limit
it may be presented to or received by the
Governor for assent until it has been
'submitted to the people by referendum
and is in accord with the result of such
referendum. A similar provision appears
in the N. S. Wales Bill dealing with any
proposed abolition of the Upper House,
and it has been declared valid by the
Privy Council.
There is another possibility. The Gov-
ernment or any of its Ministers or officials
may not obey the Court’s orders, and the
Government may not supply the
machinery for enforcing these orders,
That situation arose in Westralia. Up
to the present the Courts have always had
the right to appoint some of their own
officers, but this right has been steadily
and increasingly limited, and in some
States it has been removed. It should
be made clear that if necessary Courts
may appoint deputy sheriffs to deal with
cases of contempt and arrest and
imprison offenders should the normal
arrangements fail.
In England today the Socialist Govern-
ment has seized all private transport, and
is compensating holders of shares in rail-
way companies with bonds equal to about
half their real value. There is no appeal.
The same Socialist Government proposes
to take away th’e freedom to work from
doctors, forcing them to be civil servants
or else cease to work as doctors.
Australians would feel much happier if
they knew that their rights could not be
violated or their assets confiscated without
proper protection or compensation.—
R. Palmerston Rundle (Q.).


■
ns
2*" - ,*> .
m
Steel
e
Atjn
cm
ano
I Va
e
ges
For
M
5
fm
ffff
m
i - *
r -wmmmmMmn
mm
m
JON*^ssae
STEEL: A glowing ingot of B.H.P. steel emerging from the bloom
mill at the Newcastle Steel Works.
HAULAGE; Steel
wire rope being
monufactured at
Newcastle, N.S.W.
ENGINEERING: A huge press shapes
Australian motor car bodies.
.
'
...
■ :
i liii Jzmk
i ; " ; ■ ..
• ,
' ,fi ■ ■
S ■ •J “
iV
SHIPPING: A 6.000-ton freighter ’
ready for launching at the B.H.P.
Whyalla Shipyard, S.A.
■
7.r;
mm
SSSi'
1
11
H. .ri
I I
f* M*
■; ;•,
FENCING; Wire netting being gal-
vanised at Hylands' Wire Mills,
Newcastle, N.S.W.
mm mm
111
W&pf *
/' -'l
m
««f *1
... W*"3*
* u-
KT*
TRANSPORT: Motor cor assembly line welders on the job.
f
A
HOUSING: Galvanised corrugated steel
sheets being packed at Lysaght's New-
castle Works. N.S.W.
EMPLOYMENT: Some of the Newcastle Steel Works
7,000 employees coming off shift.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Oifices a! Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane. Perth
London, Singapore and Philadelphia.
N.S.W
SHIPYAR
WHVALL A
