

EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OP
THE
a®
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3531
Wednesday, October 15, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
A SHRINE OF OLD MASTERS IS GLASGOW’S FAMOUS ART GALLERY
THIS magnificent building rising from sloping green lawns in
Kelvingrove Park is the centre of attraction to all Glasgow
lovers of art. Some idea of the grandeur of this Palace of Art
can be gained from the knowledge that the building alone cost
approximately a quarter of a million pounds.
Glasgow’s famous art-collection, which represents European
painting from the fifteenth century onwards, is said to be superior
to any other municipal collection. It is rich in examples of the
figgaish, Dutch and Barbazon Schools, and has many priceless
canvases by such masters as Rafael, Turner, Whistler and Van
Dyck. Additions are continually being made, and the directors
of the Gallery are constantly bringing the works of famous masters
before public notice.
In this building also is an excellent museum. Its section ot
prehistoric relics is of direct local importance, and contains a
replica of the burial site which was found at Mt. Vernon, east
of the city. The collections of early ship-models and ot arms and
armour are thought to be among the finest in Europe.


rS***s&
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Addrest
S.B. 147 AGE
NEW NOVELS
CORNERSTONE
By Dorothy M. Catts. An absorbing
romance from the drama-packed pages
of Australia’s history 8/6
HIGH RIVER
By Nourma Handford. Yon’ll live the
joys, sorrows, hardships and triumphs
at High River Farm 8/6
DADDY SOWED A WIND!
By Cynthia Reed. An analysis of the
inner secrets of a woman’s mind, 8/6
At all booksellers. Write fpr free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty. Ltd.
Central House, Little Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
DETECTIVE STORY.
Only the corpse on the floor was out of it all.
The sprawled insensate hulk with timeless eyes
That would never see his mad old aunt again.
Wringing her hands in the corner; chirping
cries
Like those of unfed nestlings flopped from her
lips:
His mad old aunt weeping against the wall.
Nor could he see the girl, the bitter blonde
Slumped in the armchair and regarding him;
jd, bought the dagger, she of your first guess,
And he cannot tell the truth, being over the rim,
Buried the second day, gone from the story.
Far past the edge of the shadow, there beyond
The family circle, solid, immutable,
His box of tricks neat, ready for the fray
The Man from the Yard stands smiling.
It was luck' that caught him here on holiday
In a lost village of one dumb constable
Sullenly puzzled by the inscrutable.
Here we leave something to your imagination —
I he scratch on the window, fat butler’s evidence.
The lines from Hamlet; a well-hidden clue
Pushed through the ivy on the backyard fence;
Quaint flutterings of the aunt about the house
And village comments on the great sensation.
His aunt it was, of course, for an addled reason.
She who recalled him as a grubby boy
And often scrubbed him raw at a day’s end;
She who chose well a favorite game or toy
Could not accept man’s toys not of her choosing.
She thought, this way, to keep him for a season.
Craftily planned and had him for a visit,
His life to prove her art and loving care:
Then, perfect attainment, no further aim or
striving —■
The shattering bleakness of profound despair
With nothing proved, an ear- to-a-m istress
nothing.
You could read the book, but it isn’t important,
is it?
This daft old dame, lonely, puzzled and mild]
Within her withered arms held only dreams.
Fancies, dissected throughout two hundred pages
While police tramp in and out and torchlight
gleams:
Not the first crone to pin a dream on a knife
Nor yet the first who’d kill to keep her child.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
Fish and Chips.
w
stances, is not entitled to complain of a
surfeit of this delicacy. But, as the novel
progresses, when Harry (who has been
eating sandwiches this time) throws away
“his greasy lunch-paper,” and when “the
greasy and sticky paper-bags into'which
her mother’s hand was always wander-
ing” make Ruth, their daughter, “sick
with disgust,” one feels that the authors
are rather overdoing things. It is not
quite certain that Harry, sketchily as he
is drawn, is really the sort of man who
would notice a greasy lunch-paper or
object to it very much if he did. It is
not clear why the lunch-paper should be
greasy at all. And so one cannot help
suspecting that all this criticism of fish
and chips and “snacks, sweet or greasy”
and “titbits out of crumpled paper-bags”
is coming not from the characters but
from the authors.
Again, when Harry is working as a
lift-driver after a series of depressing
adventures —leaving his poultry-farm; a
child dying of convulsions ; losing several
jobs; bickering with his wife—he is
credited with a peculiar distaste for “big
bosoms”:
Most of all he hated the big bosoms.
He took them up and he brought them
down, load after load of self-satisfied big
bosoms He spent all the time shoving
big bosoms along, which was hard work
because, of course, he must not on any
account ever touch a passenger There
was going to be war. Let it come. Let it
wipe out the whole bleeding lot, all the
cramped and crowded houses in the narrow
streets, the big shiny places and the walled
gardens, the shop and the elevator and the
big bosoms.
This paragraph raises some interesting
questions. Is it submitted, for instance,
that, in the interests of justice and civili-
sation lift-drivers should be allowed to
“touch” passengers? Is it suggested that
only rich women are endowed by nature
in this way—that everybody earning, say,
less than £SOO a year is lean? Are all
large ladies necessarily “self-satisfied”?
In the socialistic new world envisaged by
Tomorrow and Tomorrow will big
bosoms, along with fish and chips, be
prohibited ; or at least restricted? Once
again, one is led to suspect that this is not
so much a political novel as, simply, a
depressed one. It purports to attack a
political system; it appears, rather, to
attack the whole richness and rotundity of
human life.
It is possible, of course, putting aside
the question of its merits as a novel, to
read Tomorrow and Tomorrow as a kind
of Socratic dialogue. Though the ideas
are heavily loaded in favor of the Left —
the central theme is a denunciation of
the profit system—there is some attempt
to preserve a balance of argument. The
book seems, by its ferocious picture of
the destruction of Sydney (an image
which Marjorie Barnard presented in a
powerful short-story “Dry Spell” and
which forms by far the most impressive
chapter of Tomorrow and Tomorrow ),
to be meant not as an instrument of
revolution but as a warning of the horrors
that might come if the profit system is not
abolished. As such, though the ideas are
familiar and are much repeated, the
book may give some dim and lugubrious
pleasure to lovers of political tracts; who
may note, perhaps, the two paradoxes
that, though the book appears to advo-
cate pacifism, one of the heroes is an
Anzac, and that the young rebel in the
Communist dictatorship of the future
seems to be hungering for something very
much like a return to the profit system
... at least, undeniably, for power, ex-
citement, competition.
But a Socratic dialogue is not a novel.
In fiction one looks for characterisation
and an interesting story, and in both
these respects Tomorrow and Tomorrow
is weak.
Set in the future, when the Australians
have been replaced by a vaguely
“oriental” race, it is particularly disap-
pointing in its half-hearted attempts to
describe the scenes and people of 400
years from now. A great deal of the in-
terest of Brave New World came from
Huxley’s imagining of scientific gadgets.
Except for a “votometer,” which
records people’s thoughts. Tomorrow and
Tomorrow has practically nothing of this
sort of thing.
The principal characters in this section,
Ord, Knarf and Ren, are little more than
abstractions. Knarf is writing an his-
torical novel about the Australia of 1920-
1950; Ord is his patient and mildly
cynical audience; Ren, Knarf’s son,
represents the eternal rebelliousness of
youth. When the book begins, there is
some attempt —shown in an amusing
argument as to whether a figure recovered
from the ruins of the Anzac Memorial in
Hyde Park was the work of “Raynor,
an Englishman” or “a Dutchman named
Hoff” —really to convey the “period
atmosphere” of a future 400 years from
today; but thereafter Knarf becomes
practically indistinguishable from M. Bar-
nard Eldershaw, knowing all the details
of Australian life—even to such facts as
that N.E.S. arrangements in the war were
under the control of Mr. Heffron —in a
way altogether improbable in a historian
of the distant future. The novel becomes
simply a novel of today.
Or, rather, an analysis, from the Leftist
viewpoint, of present-day sociological
conditions. The characters, who work,
lose their jobs, love, stray and eat fish
and chips in a generally dismal way,
are seen as victims of the profit system ;
and, being conceived as victims, are never
quite human: at the worst, puppets; at
best, remote, lost in a fog of ideology.
When, as in the scene in which Ally, who
ought to be lamenting the death of her
husband, is overcome by hunger for a
piece of chocolate, there is a genuinely
profound flash of characterisation, the
effect is marred by the complaining tone
in which it is written.
Tomorrow and Tomorrow 'is one of
those books, increasingly common in Aus-
tralian writing, which seem to be made
by Leftist writers for an audience of
Leftist writers: a kind of cerebral dance
of ideas, above the heads of the people;
dealing with the slums, yet lacking the
flavor of life; humorless, glum, political.
Fundamentally, they are an expression
of over-sensitiveness; but the production
of them is undoubtedly fostered by the
entirely erroneous theory that a novel,
as a first essential, must be a sociological
textbook; whereas, of course, the first
essential of a work of art is that it should
be a work of art. Sincere convictions
are not enough; good prose is not
enough. We do not remember Dickens
because he attacked the Yorkshire
schools, but because he created the im-
mortal Wackford Squeers ; and we would
remember a portrait of a fishmonger long
after an attack” on fish and chips had
been forgotten.
"Hail Tomorrow."
There are no reach-me-down themes in
drama. It is the function of art to trans-
form the factual without interfering with
facts, and in an historical play where fact
takes the place of invention the play-
writer has still to create much, as Shak-
speare did. For one thing he has to bring
the past, a particular period, vividly alive
for us. That’s why Vance Palmer’s Hail
Tomorrow (Angus and Robertson) is a
tame play on a tremendously interesting
subject. There are plain prose accounts
of the great shearers’ strike of 1891, such
as Randolph Bedford’s brief summary in
The Story of Mateship, which are far
more dramatic than this drama.
Palmer’s desire to star William* Lane as
the hero of the piece has led him into
transforming a fiasco into a glorious
achievement. What unionist today thinks
of Lane as other than the trusted leader
who abandoned his followers? The
extreme Communist bfecame the dyed-in-
the-wool Tory. After only a few months
he seceded from his New Australia and
started a rival show of his own, Cosme,
which he also abandoned. He took a job
on the conservative anti-Labor New
Zealand “Herald,” and for 17 years, to
the day of his death, he was its leader-
writer or editor and a staunch Imperialist.
The play therefore fizzles out in anti-
climax with that final melodramatic
“Hail tomorrow! ”
The personal “Open letter to E. H.
Lane by Way of preface” is an artistic
mistake in the first place, and it doesn’t
give the author the advantage intended.
It directs the reader what to sfee in the
play, but a work of art must stand on
its own merits without any sort of special
pleading by the artist from outside. In
the matter of dramatic values, the author
apparently attaches undue importance to
the trivial in his prompting us (in the
preface) not to miss “the grizzling
woman who peers in from the verandah
during the fourth act.” The dust-jacket
directs attention to the “two romances,”
but these in fact do not belong appropri-
ately to this particular play at all, and
are the mildest affairs without a spark of
“romance” anyway.
Thb older dramatists, from Shakspeare
down, got everything by dialogue. Today
playwriters add a prose introduction to
each act, giving age and appearance of
the personae, something of their char-
acters, details of the scene; and in this
Palmer follows the moderns. But it is
still true, of course, that a play stands or
falls by its dialogue. In Hail Tomorrow
the dialogue is not that of the early
’nineties, and also it is “literary” rather
than conversational. It smells of the
midnight oil.
McCristal, Rennick, Paterson, Wilkie,
Lonergan—they all talk in exactly the
same way, because each of them is really
Vance Palmer talking, and we don’t re-
member any one of them afterwards as
an individual. Whfere there are long
alternate speeches, each carefully rounded
off while the rest listen, we have the old-
fashioned stage and not the natural con-
versation of men who meet and talk in
short exchanges. Glover says, “I’ve learnt
since that violence is a short-winded plug
that makes a good showing for the first
mile or so but knocks up long before the
post.” Very good, but such things are
written in a study, not spoken in a
strikers’ camp.
In the case of the romanticised William
Lane, ordinary talk rises to oration. The
author tells us that he has been at pains
to use Lane’s own words from his printed
articles, but written prose is not at all the
same thing as casual conversation:
“My God, what wouldn’t I have given
for the power and eloquence of one of the
old prophets! I wanted to raise myself on
•wings above the town. X wanted to call
to that drifting, passionless crowd; ‘The
world you inhabit is a graveyard. It reeks
of craziness and corruption. Raise your-
self from its paralysing dust. Come out
of the body of this death.’ ”
This is not Lane yarning to his mates, but
Lane being eloquent in the “Worker.”
Vance Palmer has an intensely inter-
esting period to work upon, and has
carefully mapped out a good play. But
there’s no lift, no firfc in it. It’s a matter
of selection of material as well as of
treatment. The dummying of immense
areas by squatters, the importation of
Kanakas and Chinese, the holding of
131,000,000 acres by 18 banks and 27
financial companies in Queensland alone,
Colonel Tom Price’s “Fire low and lay
’em out! ” —such things were the burning
topics of that time. The playwright is
concerned chiefly with smaller matters.
The conversation of a few strike leaders
does not make a convincing play be-
cause it does not communicate to the
reader the tremendous excitement and
bitterness of those times. Hail To-
morrow smacks too much of the
stage. The machinery of the play
is strained at times to get the right char-
acters together for the dialogue ; as when
Glover’s daughter and closest mates do
not bother to meet him on his arrival at
Sydney from Queensland after his two
years in jail. They are required on the
stage.
Here, as in The Passage, one can al-
most see the list of suitable racy terms
at the author’s elbow for working in;
and time and time again these make the
dialogue that of today. Dinkum, barrack,
hot air, stone the crows —these are not
the lingo of over half a century ago.
Worse, Palmer’s people are given to
using Yankee terms that came in only
with the comparatively modern invasion
of the movies and Wild Westerns—
“tough bunch” and “pronto”; “poor
mutt” ; “dumb.” Australians did not talk
like that in 1891.
ROSS PARKER
Period Piece.
ŵ


Anthony Horderns'
Your Packard Shoes are your friends for
life! Ask the fellow who wears them.
This is a statement of fact when comfort,
style and construction are the keynotes
of Packard footwear. For
a healthy and carefree foot,
comfort in footwear is
essential, and with the many and
varied Multiple Fittings of Packard
Shoes, your always important
“Comfort Fitting” is assured.
The
i
C
m
■
w
i
_____
sssss
m
mu
m
m
ty
w
COUNTRY CLIENTS. Packard Shoes have been
made in normal standard sizes, but with the
many Multiple Fittings in each size. For your
selection we have in each size a NARROW,
MEDIUM, WIDE or EXTRA WIDE FITTING.
So, when ordering, don’t forget your size, PLUS
the fitting your foot requires.
Multiple Fitting Dept.— ,
Ground Floor, George Street,
IA. For free and easy walking, this Packard No-Cap
Derby Shoe is the footwear for you ! They have all the
features that make for ease and enjoyment in walking . . .
soft pliable uppers of Black Glace Kid, Black Box Calf or Tan
Elk , . . genuine welted leather soles . . . Multiple
Fittings in sizes sto 11. Price, 49/4
(Not illustrated)
18. Both golfing and hiking demand a shoe of
balanced construction to take you through a
long walk in perfect comfort. Such a shoe is this
one in Brown Elk . . . flexible rubber
soles . . . Multiple Fitting sizes 5 to 11. 49/4
2. (Left.) A Brogue with conservative
distinction and masculine good looks, as
well as all the characteristics a good
brogue possesses. Uppers of Black Elk and
Double-Decker genuine welted
soles. Built for solid wear . . .
Black only ... in your
Multiple Fitting sizes 6 to 11. 59/2
3. (Right.) Comfort unlimited with
a Packard Oxford. Men of
distinction wear this one, which
is available in Black Box Calf
with genuine welts, in your Multiple
Fitting sizes sto 11. Price, 49/4
i,
A
y
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


ŵ
f BABY
' LOVES
to revel In the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap. It
v keeps his tenderskin.
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous<
trio-Cuticura Soap, |
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
530
LOOK!
Beehive Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
The "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
ẁ
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mojildings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
cluding saw and planer
blades, £l7/10/-. Also
woodturning: lathe outfit,
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
liin. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, does
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States.
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
,ightw£im t
Finished in woven-striped, water-
proofed canvas, with leafier-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
it increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
FSSS
m*m
Tlae Ibest
As a game bird the duck is at
its best, off the water, at about
2% years. At this age it can
fly at more than 63 miles an
hour down wind and gives
shooters exceptionally keen
sport. It reaches its prime as
a table bird at 3% but by
then is usually gun shy
which means that the best
“eating” birds are
rarely eaten!
i/ovto speaal
f\wn
mm [
A whisky “comes of age”
around the five year * mark.
Until then, Corio Special lies
undisturbed in old oaken casks,
while Nature slowly but surely
brings it from raw immaturity
to smooth mellowness. Not until
it is over 5 years old is
Corio Special marketed
more than double the mini-
mum prescribed under
Commonwealth law.
Corio Special
Whisky at its prime .
BRANDAUERjS
ns
e m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed- -
do not experiment with Imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wauls.
To buy copy of Life of Captain Matthew
Flinders. —4107.
To buy What Butterfly Is That? by Dr.
Waterhouse. —4108.
To buy small machine for making fairy floss.
—4109.
To buy roll-film holder, any type, \ plate
or 120 size.—4lll.
Words of poem beginning “Queensland,
thou art a land of pests.”—4llo.
To buy copy of Animal Breeding, by A. L.
Hagerdoorn.—4l24.
Copy of an old Bulletin cartoon entitled
“Courtship in the West,” showing bushman
on a bike chasing a lubra across a salt-hush
f1at.—4123.
To buy, six copies of Chats on Rowing, by
Steve Fairbairn, —4122.
Young English girl (17) would like to corre-
spond with young Bulletin readers. —4125.
Information Sought.
I have several pieces of mahogany and cedar
furniture which have received no attention since
originally French-polished. Can you recom-
mend a polish to remove a slight dullness?
To repolish, shake together equal parts of
limewater and raw linseed oil. When thoroughly
blended, thin mixture with turpentine (till like
very thin cream) and apply mixture with wad-
ding. Rub well to remove dust and dirt and
wipe well. Now make a firm pad, sprinkle
with methylated spirit, press in till pad is moist
and polish the wood smartly. Use a second
pad to finish.
(1) What is anthracite and semi-anthracite
coal ? (2) How are coals of lower rank classed ?
(3) Is Blair Athol (Q.) coal an anthracite coal?
(1) The terms as used in different countries
vary somewhat, but in the classification recently
proposed by the Standards Association of Aus-
tralia coal with a fuel ratio (i '.e., proportion
of fixed carbon to volatile matter) of 6.1—11.5
is semi-anthracite, while if greater than 11.5
it is anthracite. (2) Coals of lower rank are
classed as bituminous, cannel, sub-bituminous,
lignite or brown coal. (3) No.
(1) What flow of water is required to keep
an aquarium from getting stagnant? (2) What
is a good compound to join the glass of the
aquarium to the framework?
(1) If an aquarium is provided with aquatic
plants there is no necessity for water to run
through it nor for the water to be changed,
provided of course that the plants are thriving.
Aquatic plants such as Vallisneria, Anacharis
or Sagittaria will be found the most suitable
and they are usually obtainable from aquarium
dealers or in the absence of these from other
aquarists. They should be planted in coarse
river sand which should be laid to a depth of
about 2in. along the bottom of the aquarium.
(2) A good aquarium putty consists of equal
parts by weight of litharge, zinc white and
whiting mixed with varnish, gold size or boiled
linseed oil.
What are the fouls for which boxers are
disqualified ?
Low punches, the kidney punch, rabbit
punch, blows behind the neck, hitting with
open glove, wrist, or other than knuckle part
of glove, hitting after being ordered to break
from a clinch, rubbing palm of glove across
opponent’s face, holding in clinches, hitting an
opponent while he is down, going down without
being hit, holding and hitting, butting or knee-
ing an opponent, and throwing him to canvas.
What is the latest rating of world lightweight
boxers ?
According to last American “Ring” ratings,
the world’s first 10 lightweights are: Ike Wil-
liams (champion), Enrique Bolanos, Larry
Cisneros, Eugene Burton, Bob Montgomery,
Roberto Proietti, Johnny Bratton, Freddie Daw-
son, Billy Thompson, Tony Mar,
Brief Answers.
EJ.G.: Thanks. Australia defeated U.S.A.
‘at Haverford (Philadelphia) in 1939 by 3-2 for
the Davis Cup. Australasia won it in 1907-
8-9, 1911, 1914 and 1919. The last time an
Australasian team repped was in 1922 at New
York, and U.S.A. won 4-1....M.E.: You
added the “trace element” solutions at double
the strength recommended. Cucumbers would
be expected to be more sensitive to the con-
centration of these than would tomatoes, and
this probably explains the non-success of the
former crop. Cucumbers are very subject to
attack from mildew and this also may have
had some influence on the results. In future,
add only half the quantity of each of the
“trace element” solutions to the general formula.
S.D.: (1) We do not agree that the position
is so hopeless. There appears to have been a
clear abandonment of the contract, (2) Matter
seems sufficiently important to consult a solici-
tor R.J.M.: (1) A blue book in England is
a Parliamentary publication, so called from its
blue paper cover; in some other countries, any
similar official publication. (2) A white paper
is a Government report on any subject, especi-
ally an English publication, usually less extensive
than a ‘blue book E.H.: Bougainvilleas
should be pruned when flowering is finished.
After cutting out cross-growing limbs tie the
runners in position. As a safeguard against
white ants treat the structure on which it is
grown with crude kerosene B.P. : (1) Laven-
der can be propagated from cuttings or side-
shoots set in sandy loam. Remove the tips
of the limbs to force strong root-growth. In
about six months the rooted plants can be set
out in the garden 18in. apart or in large earthen-
ware pots. (2) Consult florists re market pos-
sibilities. .. .J.H.8.: Distilled water must always
be used for first filling and always for future
topping up, otherwise you will permanently
destroy the plates. Never use rain or boiled
water. Never pass distilled water through iron
tanks, vessels or iron pipes... .S.H.: Laurie
Petersen and Tommy Burns met only once, at
Brisbane Stadium on August 18, 1944. Burns
knocked out Petersen halfway through first
round E.D.K.: Leason’s sketch “Sunday
Morning at the Shearing Shed” appeared m
The Bulletin of October 23, 1923. A copy
of that issue would cost 4s. 6d E.G.W.:
Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Sydney, for
leaflets “Poisoning Green Timber with Arsenic
Compounds” and “Kikuyu Grass as an Aid
in Bracken Fern Control” W.H.S.: In Vic-
toria the motor-mechanics trade is amongst
those gazetted as skilled trades and comes under
the control of the State Apprenticeship Com-
mission. An apprenticeship must be served,
with compulsory attendance at % technical
school, and on completion of the apprenticeship!
together with the trade course of instruction,
a certificate of competency is issued. In addition,
the Victorian Automobile Chamber ( of Com-
merce holds examinations for their “A” Grade
Certificate....E.H.H.: There is little likelihood
of the violin being genuine. There are thousands
and thousands of copies bearing those labels.
It would be impossible to give any idea ot
value without seeing the instrument, and it
would be necessary for you to submit it to
a qualified expert, such as A. E. Smith, 9
Hunter-street, Sydney D.H.McK.: Submit a
specimen of the wood-boring worm to me
nearest university or museum for identification.
They will be able to furnish some advice re-
garding means of treating the timber. Copper
naphthenate in kerosene is an effective appli-
cation for the hulls of boats and could be
obtained from paint or chemical manufacturers,
such as Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd., i
New Zealand. Spartan Paints Pty., Ltd., /*
Commonwealth-street, Sydney, manufactures
special solution of copper naphthenate for tms
purpose.


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump oak
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcon.
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
und you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pilla
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
21- per copy.- —-22/6 a year post free.
Angus & Robertson’s Book Selection
CROWDED YEARS. A book of reminiscences, by the Most Rev. James
Duhig, Archbishop of Brisbane. 4/6 (post. 4d.J.
HISTORY OF MAGAZINE PUBLISHING IN AUSTRALIA, by Frank S.
Greenop. A fascinating story and a sound textbook. Illustrated.
25/- (post. 4d.).
THE 1946-47 INCOME TAX GUIDE, by J. M. White and W. Benjamin.
Solves your tax problems. 3/6 (post. 3d.).
POINT PIPER PAST AND PRESENT, by G. Nesta Griffiths.
A valuable contribution to the history of Sydney. Illustrated.
27/6 (post. 4d..)
HUMAN DESTINY, by Lecomte Du Nouy.
“A book of such fundamental grasp and insight as cannot be expected
to appear more than once or twice a century.” 21/- (post. 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
RUM
OVERPROOF
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848 [m]
ms
m
m
Mare men
share with
Gillette
because
Gillette
edges are sharper than
a surgean 9 s scalpel!
9 The hardest, sharpest edges known to science give smoother, cleaner shaves.
9 Sturdy, supporting shoulders mean extra strength and longer
service, more shaves for your money.
• Every blade anchored in an individual wrapping so its keen,
cutting edges reach you untouched and undamaged.
9 Tested at every stage of production to ensure uniformity,
• Only Gillette’s fifty years of constant development
could give such perfection . . . and shave
you so swiftly, luxuriously and cheaply.
‘Good mornings 9 begin
GI/337 with Gillette!
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Gl-<S>
c-
<s>
-v
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
ẃ
something similar would not do. Something
twice as good might just scrape in S.D.:
They show enough promise to make another
nib a not overreckless speculation... .J.R.: A
square of paper scratched like a barnyard floor.
A.C.B.: It knew its own way into the
basket F.H.: Subject calls for a light touch;
yours suggests the hoof of a mastodon....
L.P.: The gag dragged it under... .M.C.M.:
Don’t like labels attached to people G.B. :
Crude R.P.: Acceptable as an idea—there’s
always a market here for ideas that will illus-
trate A.S.T.: Like the griffin, your flapper
is a mixed and dubious animal J.T.: Kinder-
garten stuff A.G.: Vapid... .8.D.P.: You
haven’t arrived yet. It is doubtful whether you
have started... .L. 8.: Scratchy, but vaguely
promising W.A.H.: You’re a well-meaning
patriot, but a disastrous cartoonist... .J.D.K.:
They look like the artistic compositions of a
capsized inkpot G.W.: Specimens submitted
don’t indicate an unsuspected Phil May....
E.8.T.: Three echoes from the past embellished
with scratches... J.G.D.: A hundred miles off
our beat R.H.: Sorry, can’t offer any encour-
agement.


“SOCIALISATION IN TEN YEARS”
What Lies Behind the Banking Issue
In 1921, on the votes of an “All-Aus-
tralian” Trade-Union Congress held in
Melbourne, “Labor” abandoned its old
manly official objectives, “cultivation of
an Australian sentiment,” “development
of an enlightened and self-reliant com-
munity,” and took a single objective from
the aspirations of men who, as Mr.
Theodore remarked, had been “reading
of developments in Russia and reading
the preamble of the 1.W.W.” This objec-
tive was: “The socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange.”
The objective was to be achieved by a
series of “methods” designed by a com-
mittee headed by Mr. Scullin, on which
Messrs. Curtin, Arthur Blakeley, J. S.
Garden, R. x S. Ross, A. C. Willis and
J. M. Baddeley sat. These “methods”
were outlined by Mr. Scullin, who steered
the scheme through both conferences.
“They” would “employ Parliamentary
machinery to nationalise industry to give
the workers control of industry” ; then
“they” would have “government by the
workers in industry.” Separate industries
would become groups, and each group
would elect representatives to a “supreme
economic council.” The “supreme
economic council” would “really take the
place of our Parliament today,” though
the * old Parliament would not be
abolished, as there were still “lots of
things” it could do in “social” and “inter-
national” affairs.
The driving force was to be a big group
of powerful industrial unions—“one in-
dustry one union”—which were to take
the place of the smaller craft unions, and
apply their weight to the persuasion of a
“Labor”-controlled legislature.
It was made clear that all this could
not happen until “Labor” was firmly in
the saddle. Apart from Messrs. Scullin
and Curtin, Garden —then general secre-
tary of the Communist party—and Willis,
Messrs. Drakeford, Lawson, Makin and
Beasley were associated with the
adoption of this scheme. Messrs. F. M.
Forde, Scullin, Frank Brennan, Makin
and H. P. Lazzarini stood for Federal
seats on the new platform in 1922 and
1925, and Messrs. Chifley and Curtin in
1925. But the issue then was job-control
of shipping, and “Labor” got a hiding.
The Years of Disaster
After that, while the means of obtain-
ing it remained, the supreme economic
council idea was placed in cold storage
by resolution moved by Mr. Forgan
Smith at the 1927 Federal Conference, the
“methods” clause of the platform being
redrafted to omit it. The new objective,
however, was retained intact.
During the Lang years a socialisation
committee was approved by the N.S.W.
A.L.P. Conference. Mr. Donald Grant,
Mr. Jock Stewart and a Mr. W.
Macnamara were among its members.
Its “literature” promised that in the new
era “everything” would be “rationally
planned in advance by a central economic
council,” and that “no ond* shall go
hungry whilst there are goods in existence
to be consumed.” “Present-day demo-
cracy” was described as “a sham its
boasted universal suffrage a hollow farce
as long as there exists an iconomic pluto-
cracy and aristocracy, corrupting, bribing,
controlling the minds of voters and their
elected representatives.”
The authors of these sentiments are still
guiding socialisation movements in N. S.
Wales. Mr. Donald Grant, who pro-
gressed “Through Six Jails” to a “Labor”
senatorship, was chairman at the noisy
meeting which Mr. Dedman addressed in
Sydney on October 3 by way of opening
the campaign for the “nationalisation” of
the banks. Mr. Stewart, as A.L.P. secre-
tary, is head of special socialisation
machinery. Mr. Macnamara has been
associated with a startling scheme now
in process of being completed.
Dr. Lloyd Ross Appears
After the electors had punished “Labor”
so severely at the 1931-32 elections —it
did not leave its sick bed for years, and
then apparently only in a state of delirium
—a new figure appeared in the socialisa-
tion world—Dr. Lloyd Ross, son of R. S
Ross, one of the framers of the 1921
scheme. At a “summer school” in 1934
Dr. Ross laid down his plans.
He declared the first “necessary and
practical step” to socialisation to be “to
make the Commonwealth Bank the instal-
ment for carrying out the financial policy
of the Government” ; the next “to set up
a board to control investment” ; the next
again to bring the trading banks under
“control.”
Finally, he called for the setting up of
the old “supreme economic council” to
“organise development and bring discon-
nected State socialism, or retreating capi-
talism, into a general plan and philo-
sophy.” He “emphasised the need for
socialising the banks” as a beginning, say-
ing that “all plans must be inadequate
that do not interfere drastically with
private property, that do not socialise the
main methods of producing and distribut-
ing wealth.” He concluded:
He who would plan economic develop-
ment, even in Australia, must learn more
fr °m the Bolsheviks than from anyone
e se *
In 1940, Mr. Rosevear, now Speaker of
the House, described Dr. Ross (Hansard,
May 2, 1942, p. 507 and 510) as a
“notorious Communist,” adding that
“wherever a Communist places his
leprous touch there is trouble for the
workers.” Mr. Beasley helcf Dr. Ross
and a few others responsible for the fact
that “the Communist party now controls
the policy and domestic affairs of the
Labor party in New South Wales.”
Socialisation Revives
At the end of m2> Dr. Evatt removed
the ban from the Communist party, which
kad been suppressed since a month after
Mr Beas i ey ’ s speech about Dr. Ross,
At once t he Prime Minister appointed a
Trade . Union Advisory Panel to help him
run the war There were eight Com-
mun j s t s 0 r representatives of Communist-
run unions among itg 13 mem bers, includ-
j ng f our mem b ers G f the Communist
Central Committee—Thornton, Healy,
Wells and Thomson. Within a fortnight
after its personnel was announced in
March; 1943 the air was full of talk
of socialisation. Mr. Dedman, now
Minister of Pos t-War Reconstruction,
w bi c h has reconstructed nothing, was one
of those who remarked that he was not
ashamed of being a socialist.
n , lf nnA
l>Ut 1943 WBS 8G CICCtIOII VCcir, 8.11(1
M 0 .. flt .. ’
t Y ♦ y ,’- a
. pr l W( t have not socialised
A u ff aha and , we don ‘ P ro E° se ,0 do ]t
*! l , LSC , . we a l e at ....
. Mr. Wardtwodays afterwards shouted
! n t Par *A tha U Labor gamed control of
both Chambers, banking and insurance
shouid be nationalised. He went fur-
ther; To provide for the returned soldier
after the , war the country would have to
Properly organised, and tins could only
very radlcal ° hanSeS
The Curtin Government was returned
with majorities in both Chambers on
August 21, 1943. Dr, Coombs became
Director of Post-War Reconstruction and
“Economic Adviser to the Treasury,” and
Dr. Lloyd Ross, Mr. Rosevear’s
“notorious Communist”—he had left the
party in 1940, but not on the socialisation
issue—was made Deputy-Director and
Director of Public Relations,
Federal Conference Orders Socialism
At the Federal A.L.P. Conference
(Dec. 13) the Prime Minister was a dele-
gate. Also present were Mr. Calwell and
Senators Fraser, Donald Cameron and
O’Flaherty, the Premier, Deputy-Premier
and Speaker of the Queensland Parlia-
ment, the Premier of Tasmania (Mr.
Cosgrove), the S. Australian Opposition-
leader (Mr. Richards) and various State
Ministers and members,
Xhe » A .L.P. Constitution, Objective
and pj nan ce Committee” consisted of
Messrs> P j C i arey (Vi c .)_Mr. Cain’s
Labor Minister—W. C. Taylor (then a
d i rec tor of the Commonwealth Bank and
now one of the heads of “nationalised”
a j r ii n es), Mr. Richards, Mr. Brooker (a
Tasmanian Minister), Mr. Devries, M.L.A.
(Q) and Mr x G Davies (W . A .). It
bro ught down from the exec^tive ' a list
D f banking measures to be implemented,
the details f of which> Mr> Xayl £ r told the
ra A u„
conference, had been approved by the
Treasurer . Mr. Chifley. These measures
the conference ordered the Common-
wealth Government to implement “im-
mediately” along with-the rest of the
P ar ‘y’ s banking platform.
They included every measure since
carried out regarding banking. The
whole programme, which was steered
through the conference by Mr. Taylor,
was implemented within little more than
two years—abolition of the Bank
Board; resolution of war-time security
regulations on banking into legislation;
complete control of the banking system by
the Commonwealth Bank, including fix-
mg rates of interest; licensing of banks;
control of sales and amalgamations; m
fact, everything which was done before
the nationalisation proposal was brought
in, including attempted compulsion of
State Governments and municipalities to
bank with the Commonwealth Bank.
Campaign for Socialism
X h e Constitution and Objective Com-
mittee quietly brought down another
resolution for adoption:
Th a t a nationwide campaign for social-
ism be started immediately and the imple-
meriting of the campaign be left in the
hands of the Federal Executive.
Passed by some harebrained local com-
mittee, this might have meant little. But
it was passed by a conference which in-
cluded the Prime Minister, other Federal
Cabinet Ministers, State Premiers and
Ministers and Federal and State mem-
bers of Parliament; by, in fact, a con-
ference whose power was shown by the
fact that all it otherwise ordered in
regard to finance was carried out to the
letter without delay.
So was its order for the campaign
on socialism. The official organ of the
party in New South Wales announced
(26/1/’44) that the Federal Executive
would meet shortly (as it did), to send
delegates abroad to “secure working-class
collaboration to abolish capitalism as
soon as possible.”
Regional conferences were held
in N. S. Wales, following a set pattern.
Mr. Taylor or Dr. Ross, or both, would
attend as “guest speaker.” Their speeches
would deal with the matter in hand.
Then, “arising out of the address” of
Dr. Lloyd Ross or Mr. Taylor, a stock
resolution would be passed:
That this regional conference recom-
mends that the plans for post-war plan-
ning of the Commonwealth Government
can be best effected by the implementation
of the party’s policy of socialisation of
industry, production, distribution and ex-
change; (2) That the resources of the
country shall be vested in the Common-
wealth Bank, operating under powers
defined by the Commonwealth Government.
This meant, of course, immediate im-
plementation of the socialisation objec-
tive. And Dr. Ross must have been
acting under direct Ministerial orders.
Otherwise the Public Service Board
would have interfered, since he was
regularly committing, otherwise, a gross
breach of public-service regulations.
On June 6, 1944 (D-Day), when this
campaign had been in progress some
time, an A.C.T.U. Federal Conference
was called by the Federal Government,
It forced from the almost-weeping Mr.
Forde the promise that in future all
Ministerial doors would be open to
“legitimate trade-union representatives.”
“In Ten Years”
The week afterwards the N. S. Wales
annual A.L.P. Conference was held in
Sydney. What happened there was not
reported in the press—though “S.M.
Herald” had a few lines announcing that
the conference had passed “a long
resolution on socialisation.”
This is the official account:
Decision to draw up a ten-year plan for
the socialisation of the means of produc-
tion, distribution and exchange in logical
stages was one of the outstanding results
of the Conference. Moving the motion on
behalf of the executive, the vice-president
(Mr. W- C. Taylor) said that with Labor
in charge of the Commonwealth and most
of the State Parliaments, the time had come
for a more definite statement of the party
objective and for the development of a
plan for the instruction of Governments to
achieve socialisation.
“We must set out an order of priority
for the things that must be done to that
end,” he declared. “For too long poli-
ticians have been allowed to regard them-
selves as having a use only at election
times as party laborers. They must be
given faith in the desire of the party to
achieve the objective. It does not exist
to preserve for individuals the vested
interests of jobs and positions, but to
achieve socialisation for the common
good.”
Then this resolution was passed:
Conference recognises the necessity for
stating the objectives of the A.L.P. in posi-
tive form, and believes it necessary to take
steps to secure the achievement of our
ideals in the immediate post-war period.
Conference approves of the proposal of
the Central Executive to embark on a ten-
year plan for Australia and calls upon
trade-unions, Labor Leagues and members
to assist in achieving this ideal.
We direct the incoming executive to pre-
pare draft plans for discussion by trade-
unions, branches and regional conferences,
with a view to presenting the proposals to
a special conference of the A.L.P. where
endorsement of the details of such plans
will be sought.
The resolution was supported by Mr.
T. McCleery (Federated Engine-drivers)
and by Mr. Millis of Mr. Chifley’s
Katoomba branch council, who by reso-
lution made it clear that what was to be
done was to implement the official social-
isation objective.
Mr. McKell was at the conference. He
made no protest. He said later it was
“vital” that “Labor should be in office
when the war ended We have made
plans for co-operation with the Federal
Government and the workers will not be
disappointed.”
The Powers referendum campaign
was soon raging. The Sydney committee
for Yes consisted of three members of
the Central A.L.P.—Messrs. Stewart,
Taylor and Dickson —and three mem-
bers of the Communist party, among
them T. Wright (vice-president Central
Committee of the Communist party) and
Bert Chandler. The referendum resulted
in a Government defeat.
Mr. Taylor on Tour
Conferences of Federal Electoral
Councils were now called throughout
N. S. Wales. The first was at Parra-
matta —visitors, Messrs. Taylor and Lloyd
Ross and W. Macnamara.
The Macquarie District Assembly,
with Mr. Chifley and Senator Ashley
present as visitors (17/9/’44), passed a
resolution that, “recognising the consti-
tutional difficulties now confronting the
Government, our party should go ahead
with its progressive policy for peace-
time rehabilitation despite any doubtful
legality!”
After the vote, Wollongong held its
conference and, “arising out of the
address of Dr. Lloyd Ross, Deputy
Director of Post-war Reconstruction,” a
resolution urged the Federal Govern-
ment “to implement to the full its post-
war policy” and “not to be influenced by
the result of the referendum” “We also
urge the nationalisation of banking and
insurance and the progressive implemen-
tation of other points in the official Fed-
eral Conference Report”—which included
the resolution for socialisation.
A month later Dr. Lloyd Ross wrote
in the “Standard” that “democratic
socialist society must replace the rapa-
cious system of monopoly capitalism.”
Finally, there was a special conference
at the beginning of November, 1944, of
the A.L.P. Federal Executive, State and
Federal Ministers (Messrs. Ward and
Ashley) and Mr. McKell, present with “a
full team.”
In February, 1945, Mr. McKell
opened the Labor College, of which the
leading mentors included Dr, Lloyd
Ross and Mr. Abie Landa’s protdge Pro-
fessor Stone; also Mr. J. N. Rawling, of
Literary Fund fame, a former Com-
munist.
In 1945 there were further regional
conferences, some of which were attended
by Mr. Dedman himself in addition to
Messrs, Lloyd Ross, Taylor and Stewart.
Early in the year a Federal secretariat
of the A.L.P. was formed, it having been
found that State delegates were too sub-
servient to State influences, the State
framework of the body too remote from
“democratic centralism.” But little leaked
out while State and Federal elections
were pending.
Before the Federal election (1946)
N.S.W. “Labor” had proposed as a basis
of Federal fighting policy “nationalisa-
tion of banking and credit and of mono-
polies and near-monopolies and a
National Planning Council” —listed as
“constitutional reform” under the
general heading of “development of
policy of socialisation,” and to be set
up “to plan the volume and direction
of production and distribution, to co-
ordinate the remaining private section of
industry and to control prices.”
The Platform Is Altered
At the next Federal A.L.P, Conference
(November, 1945), of which not much
more was let out than would have
emerged from one of Stalin’s Cabinet
meetings, it was decided to appoint a
committee to “revise the party platform
and rules in the light of present events. ’
The official organ already had an-
nounced (June 21, 1946) that “the A.L.P.
has worked out its own programme and
plans for attaining democratic socialism
in a way acceptable to the people.”
For the first time in 25 years a New
South Wales delegate was elected presi-
dent of the Federal A.L.P. (Mr. Mc-
Alpine), Prime Minister and Deputy
Prime Minister, also from N. S. Wales,
were present. So was the Premier, who
was soon to be appointed Governor-
General.
At the 1947 N.S.W. A.L.P. Confer-
ence Mr. Chifley attended. A sociali-
sation report covering plans to proceed
actively with socialisation and carry the
organisation for the Ten-year-Plan
through all States was part of the busi-
ness. Mr. W. C. Taylor, now a nation-
alised civil-aviation magnate, came back
upon the scene. So did Mr. Garden.
And nationalisation of banking was soon
under way.
Back to 1921
The term of the modern plan is the
same as that outlined by Mr. Holloway
when he presided over the 1921 All-
Australian Trade-union Congress. Mr.
Chifley’s Minister of Labor and National
Service, now No. 3, said then that
“socialisation of industry is the culmina-
tion of the teachings of Marx,” adding
that “if we are going to make the next
decade the transition period from capi-
talism to socialism all sections must come
together.”
Much of what is happening has been
covered up. But “Labor” politicians be-
hind the scenes know all about it. Hence
the panic of many “moderates” and the
real concern of Opposition veterans like
Dr. Page.


October, 1946, marked the dawn of your Airline Service
%
On this, its first anniversary, Trans-Australia
Airlines pledges itself to continue to provide the
travelling public with Australia’s finest airline service
It is fitting that after 12 months of operation Vs a public utility, TAA should voice
appreciation to the 220,000 passengers who, by their patronage, have made TAA’s
inauguration an outstanding success. In the coming year, TAA will continue to
introduce every new comfort, convenience and safety feature that will improve our
aerial transport, and will again provide the courteous, efficient arid friendly service that
has made TAA ~ . your Airline .. . Australia’s finest.
ft
A Short Story
TOM
By Myra Morris
OLD Miss Badger was at it again,
whining, scolding, her eyes pop-
ping out of her little wizened,
yellow face. The cats had been
at her seedlings. . „
“Not to mention the noise, she hissed,
“Disgusting! I won t put up with it any
longer. It’s that big black creature from
across the back paddock. He s after
Mrs Bvans’s httle” grey Persiam-after
“He’sTbig brute all right,” admittted
Tom with a grudging admiration.
Tom leaned sideways on his spade, glad
of a legitimate excuse to stop work even
for a few moments. If he laid off for a
couple of seconds to roll a cigarette—a
ticklish job in the wind—there was Miss
Badger peeking out of one of the
windows, and the house on these occa-
sions seemed to be all windows.
There was no getting away anywhere.
Tap on the glass she would, then straighten
up and look as if she had done it by
accident with her elbow sharp as an ice
pick.
<<\A/ANTS a jug of cold water heaved
W over it,” he said with a memory
of that black furry body, belly close to
the ground, streaking over the road.
“A jug of water!” Miss Badger’s voice
was vicious. “A dose of shot more
likely!”
She stood twisting her crooked little
hands in the apron-band that circled her
waist. Obviously Miss Badger was wait-
j n g } but Tom said nothing, standing
stolidly, staring* at the earth,
“y ou ’ve got a gun, Tom?”
j B got « gun> » he admitted
„
Well, it s up to you, said Miss Badger.
‘ 1 e x pect my odd-job men to do any
sort of odd job about the place. She
laughed a little snickering laugh that
seemed to come in jerks down one side of
her nose.
Tom smiled a slow, sycophantic smile,
He had got Miss Badger’s meaning,
Threatening him, eh? Well, what odds?
Plug a bit of lead into a cat or two and
it was neither here nor there,
“You’d better do it tonight,” said
Miss Badger briskly. “It’s moonlight. You
can come along on your bike.”
“Can’t tonight.” Tom scuffled his feet
in the earth. “Meeting a girl.”
Miss Badger pulled in her lips,
“Well, tomorrow then! ” Her glance
was scathing. “Not meeting another girl,
are you?”
Tom managed a slow smile that
finished as a leer.
“Might be,” he said. “Anyhow, it’s
me day up at Taylor’s right at the other
end of the town. It’s a long way
down”
“Rubbish!” Miss Badger pushed past
him on her way to the drying lines be-
yond the vegetable patch. “You can
manage somehow. I’ll add it on to your
day next week as overtime.”
She skirted the grub-riddled cabbages,
snatched a few clothes off the line as if
she were picking fruit, and went back to
the house.
Tom went on digging. He was about
40, and handsome in a brazen way. His
eyes, which rarely looked at anyone
directly, were deep, dark blue, set off
with prickly lashes that gave him an
impudent look. His legs under their
cotton “tweed” pants that were shrunken
and creased with washing were long and
straight. There was a liveliness about
him, a sort of hard animal maleness that
had to do with his coarse black hair
and narrow ears.
Smoothing the earth now with the flat
of his spade, giving a neat edge to the
bed by the black, finished dahlias, Tom
thought of Joe’s and the girl who would
be" waiting there that night, nibbling
potato chips on her little front teeth like
a rabbit. She was smart as they make
’em, Connie. Her eyebrows were painted
on like the eyebrows of a doll. She
was scented with rose talcum and her
plastered down hair was as smooth and
golden as honey running out of a jug.
Sliding his old battered watch out of
his pocket and looking at it furtively,
Tom decided that it was time to take the
last load of garden refuse down to the
compost heap, and be off.
THE compost heap was spilling over
into the wild bracken-grown paddock
that ran at the back of Miss Badger’s
block, and Tom stood at the sagging wire
fence looking over. As usual life was
stirring there under the quietness.
A flick of light among the bracken was
the white blob of a rabbit’s tail.
Sparrows quarrelled in the box-thorns
and there was a whirring of wings and
the metallic sound of starlings’ voices
under the sketchy tea-tree branches. A
paradise for cats.
Tom smiled as' a long, black body
threaded a way between the bracken
stems. That was him all right. A beauty!
There was a sudden scuffle and a wail-
ing cry Jrom behind the box-thorns, and
the blame cat moved off, picking its way
among the fern fronds with the delicate
spurning feet of a ballet dancer.
“Your number’s up, my boy!” Tom
moved away to the shed by the wood-
heap, dragged his bicycle out and
pedalled smartly down the drive. That
would be something now to tell Connie.
But Connie, wrapped in the blue, oily
fog at Joe’s, wasn’t interested in the pro-
posed murder. She wanted to talk about
{Continued on page 32.)


The British Labour Minister, in introducing the
“1946 Assurance Companies Act,” stated that “The
1946 Act”:—
“Acknowledges the inherently international
and comprehensive character of insurance.”
The Labour President of the Board of Trade in
the House of Commons also stated that it would
be proper to inform the House of the attitude of the
Labour Government toward the future of British
Insurance business. The Government, he stated, had
no intention of interfering with the transaction of
Insurance business by private enterprise. It is, he
stated, the desire of the Government that Insurance
should be, in the future, as in the past, dealt with
on an international basis and as business of an inter-
national character.
FOR 69 Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
urn *
ill
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners* and Householder s’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O. SHOWDOWN ISSUES.
As the General Assembly meeting pro-
gresses it becomes more and more evi-
dent that this is the most important and
interesting U.N.O. gathering to date.
Before it is all-over there will no doubt
be compromising and crabwalking in
committee meetings out of the public
gaze, as there have been in U.N.O. pro-
ceedings before, but, as was clearly
pointed by the opening speeches of the
American and Russian chief representa-
tives, Mr. Marshall and Mr. Vishinsky,
this is to be at least a further step towards
complete showdown in U.S.-Soviet rela-
tions and a severe testing of U.N.O.
pretensions.
What the U.S. is intent on, as generally
interpreted in U.N.O. itself and reported
from there by a N.Y. “Times” corres-
pondent, is nothing less than “to change
the structure of the United Nations, which
has obviously failed to work according to
the concepts of San Francisco.” That,
of course, intends keeping U.N.O. going,
and, reported the correspondent, “To put
it mildly, the atmosphere is pessimistic.”
“Christian Science Monitor” editor
Erwin D, Canham interpreted the U.S.
moves as “seeking, through the Assembly,
to rally an overwhelming majority of
world opinion to its side. The Assembly
can rally world opinion, and perhaps by
making this rallying strong enough it
can slow up the aggressive policies of
Russia. That, at least, is the calculation
of American diplomacy.” ' Canham also
asserted that “behind Secretary Marshall
is an America united as it has rarely been
in time of peace.”
Pending compromises and final de-
cisions, the opening Marshall and Vish-
insky speeches left little ground for hope
of any resolving of the U.S.-Soviet dead-
lock. Those speeches gave the Assembly
a dramatic launching on considering the
upwards of 80 issues on its agenda, with
four or fiyfe of those issues the main
deadlock signposts. Nothing quite like
the bluntness, on both sides, had hap-
pened in U.N.0., or in peace-time world
diplomacy, before.
Marshall v. Vishinsky
Both speakers, as N.Y. “Times” put it,
“dealt with the all-pervading issue of
our time: the conflict between the United
States and the U.S.S.R.” Since so much
is involved—above all, the great issue of
peace or war, and such an important
related issue as the making or breaking of
U.N.O. and all the wealth of world hope
it should represent—this public opening
of the drama has a special and it could
be a historic interest;
Secretary Marshall spoke for 26 minutes.
His voice had little emphasis or inflection; he
used no gestures; he couched his phrases; he
used restrained language. What he had to say
was of towering importance.
He ran the gamut of Russian-American
relations. On each East-West issue he blamed
Russia squarely for the deadlocks. He called
for a showdown in the Assembly. In effect,
he asked the delegates to make their choice:
the United States or Russia.
He painted a dark picture of the world
situation: “Men look anxiously toward the
future, wondering whether a new and more
terrible conflict will engulf them. In place of
peace, liberty and economic security, we find
menace, repression and dire want.”
He issued a challenge, directed obviously at
Russia, with an implied criticism of her use
of the veto: “The large Powers bear special
responsibilities because of their strength and
resources. While these responsibilities bring
with them special advantages, the great Powers !
must recognise that restraint is an essential
companion to privilege. The United Nations
will never endure if there is insistence on i
privilege to the point of frustration of the .
collective will.”
Mr. Vishinsky spoke for one hour and thirty- 1
two minutes. His voice was vigorous; he ‘
gestured for emphasis. On Issue after issue
that Mr. Marshall had brought up he reversed ,
the charges. And, going far beyond the ,
specific issues, Mr. Vishinsky delivered .an
impassioned attack on American policy in
general and accused the United States of pre-
t paring for a third world war. Mr. Vishinsky
said that the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall
Plan were attempts to subjugate European
peoples to the United States. He singled out
American publications and groups as jingoist.
He put John Foster Dulles, sitting four seats
away from Mr. Marshall, into the category o. 1
“violent warmongers.” He called on the
Assembly to urge all countries “on pain of
criminal punishment to prohibit war propa-
ganda in any form.” His speech was studded
with statements like these:
“This propaganda of a new war is being
carried on under various flags and pretexts.
But. ...the essence remains the same: to
justify the furious armament race in the United
States, atomic weapons included; to justify the
limitless desires of the influential circles in the
United States to fulfil the expansionist plans,
the keystone of which is a crazy ‘idea’ of world
domination. This is the way warmongering
propagandists of a new war are acting. Being
afraid of a new crisis, they are instigating a
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
ABOUT TIME TO BAIL OUT.
new war, expecting to remove by such means
the approaching menace of collapse and loss
of their profits.”
“Loud-mouthed 111-manners”
Thus N.Y. “Times,” its verbatim re-
ports of the speeches giving support
enough for the comparison drawn by
William Henry Chamberlin in “Wall-
street Journal”:
The opening sentences of Marshall’s speech
were characterised by a candor and a profound
grasp of the international situation which are
not always to be found in diplomatic utterances.
Vishinsky’s speech was an excellent illustra-
tion of the psychosis of ranting fury which
overcomes spokesmen for dictatorships when
they find themselves balked or contradicted.
It is precisely the kind of address Goebbels
would have delivered, if Nazi Germany had
been a member of the United Nations. There
is the same turgid rhetoric, the same mixture
of half-truth and pure fiction, the same audacious
attempt to charge other regimes with faults
which are conspicuous in his own.
Vishinsky has experienced good practice in
working himself up into calculated rages. It
was his former job as Soviet State prosecutor
to denounce the cowed and docile victims of
Soviet treason and sabotage trials on the basis
of evidence that was, to put it mildly, highly
questionable as to authenticity.
In this case, however, Vishinsky was not
speaking as I have sometimes heard him in
Moscow, flanked by grim-faced uniformed
guards of the Soviet political police, with Klieg
lights playing on the faces of the doomed
defendants, and with the assurance that no
contradiction of his prosecuting efforts would
be possible in the controlled press. He was
addressing an international forum that was
free, except for the Soviet satellite States.
In N.Y. “Sun” George E. Sokolsky
commented on what passes current as
“diplomatic frankness” but what many
see as a definite danger in U.N.0.:
Just as international law has been abandoned
by the proletarians who currently pass as states-
men, so have they completely discarded
diplomacy. Instead of gathering about a table
to find a way to peace, they have adopted the
rostrum for a breast-beating exhibition of
brutal rudeness, not to find a road to peace
but to exhibit forensic skill in loud-mouthed
ill-manners. Diplomacy has gone by the board
and in its place has come the raucous shoutings
of a bar-room argument. No treaty of peace
ever came out of that kind of table-beating,
although many wars were started by boasting
and strutting.
Main Points of Conflict
N.Y. “Timbs” commented that the
Vishinsky excitement was “that of a
fanatic who finds himself in an arena
where free discussion prevails, and in
which he is likely to be outvoted—and
doesn’t like it.” The major issues listed,
with the Marshall-Vishinsky statements
on them, are;
The Veto. —Under the U.N. Charter
the Security Council can take no action
—except on procedural matters —unless
all the Big Five permanent members
agree. This voting privilege is called the
“veto.” In the Council’s 20 months
Russia, the most frequent user of the
Big Five privilege, has invoked the veto
on the average of once a month. The
new concept of the United Nations,
developing from the Marshall proposals,
assumes continuing disagreement between
the U.S. and Russia. It is to by-pass the
veto and increase the power of two-thirds
majorities to take action despite Russia,
or against Russia. Only on such matters
as atomic energy and disarmament, where
universal agreement is the essence, will
the veto still have real force. On other
matters, the veto will have little value.
The ve to, for example, can keep the
Security Council from setting up an in-
; ternational police force. But it cannot
; prevent two-thirds of the U.N.O. mem-
i hers, backed by an Assembly recommen-
dation, from organising an international
! army of their own.
Marshall: The abuse of the right of unanimity
has prevented the Security Council from fulfilling
true functions. The United States would be
willing to accept the elimination of the unani-
nuty requirements with respect to matters arising
under Chapter VI of the Charter [which pro-
vides tor settlement of international disputes
by means short of the use of sanctions or
me T d T l° rce - 11 should . he said that originally
the u.S. was just as insistent as Russia on
having the veto power].
Vishinsky; One of the most important prin-
ciples of the United Nations organisation [is]
the principle of unanimity and accord among
the great Powers. The Soviet Union feels it
!S its duty to resolutely fight against any
attempts to shake this principle.
Standing Assembly. —Because U.S, has
been blocked by Soviet vetoes in the
Security Council, the American policy
planners have looked more and more to
the vetoless Assembly as the best place
to work out problems before U.N.O.
But, unlike the Security Council, which
is in permanent session, the Assembly
meets normally only once a year.
Marshall: lam proposing that this Assembly
proceed at this session to create a standing
committee of the General Assembly, which
might be known as the Interim Committee on
Peace and Security. The committee would not,
of course, impinge on the matters which are
the primary responsibility of the Security Coun-
cil, but it might consider situations and disputes
impairing friendly relations. [As all member
nations would be represented on the committee
it would really amount to a standing Assembly.]
Vishinsky: There is not the slightest doubt
that the attempt to create the interim committee
is nothing but an ill-conceived scheme to sub-
stitute and by-pass the Security Council. Of
course the Soviet delegation can in no way
accept it and will energetically oppose it.
Atom Bombs. —The U.S. and U.S.S.R.
have clashed repeatedly in the UN
Atomic Energy Commission on how to
control atom discoveries, especially the
bomb. The American plan,packed by
the majority, would set up an interna-
tional authority to control and inspect
world atomic energy facilities; outlaw
the atom bomb once the international
system was functioning; provide for
vetoless punishment of countries that
break atomic agreements. The Russian
plan would outlaw the bomb immediately
and destroy existing bombs; then work
out a control system with the Great
Power veto over punishment intact.
Marshall: Two nations [Russia and Poland]
have been unwilling to join the majority. This
is a disturbing and ominous fact. Failure to
agree will accelerate an atomic armaments race,
lire majority is convinced that its proposals
provide the only adequate basis for effective
control.
V ishinsky: The United States resists any
attempts to dismantle the existing stock of
atomic bombs and outlaw their further pro-
duction. The Soviet Union proposed in the
interests of universal peace to conclude a con-
vention outlawing the use of atomic weapons
in all circumstances. [The Soviet insistence
all along has been on destruction of America’s
bombs as a first step. After that there would
be a gentlemen’s agreement. Both aims are
patently either so naive or so impudent as to
become definitely funny.]
Greece. —Where the Grecian frontiers
meet those of Soviet-orjented Albania,
Yugoslavia and Bulgaria, there has been
spasmodic warfare for many months. The
fighters are soldiers of the Greek Govern-
ment, which is backed by U.S. aid, and
Leftist bands which, the majority report
of U.N.O.’s investigating commission
stated, hay*e been helped and supplied by
the three Soviet satellites. American efforts
to blame the Kremlin’s satellites for the
trouble and to keep a “surveillance com-
mission” in the Balkans have been
blocked by Russian vetoes in the Security
Council. The deadlocked Council, acting
on a U.S. resolution, dropped the Greek
question.
Marshall: The Assembly cannot stand by
as a mere spectator while a member of the
United Nations is endangered by attacks from
abroad. If the United Nations should fail to
protect the integrity of one small State, the
security of all small States would be placed
in jeopardy.
Vishinsky: The Soviet delegation feels necessary


•u
«
-J
<
z
o
-♦RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS v •
* B.o^
*
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL RANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
<
9. ,6
* soaaN ivNosaaj aoj abnow sonbt hnvb ivana
BANK LENDS MONEY FOB PERSONAL Nff
Ufie “MARS" PLAIN MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
ẅ
w
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFC. COY. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers-
Bridge St., Valley, Brisbane.
Licensed Manufacturers in Qld. of
MEEHANITE METALS.
I
Eflrfl
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VIC. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.),
Brunswick, Melbourne. S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide. W.A. —The Western
Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—Charles Davies,' Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd. BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta
& Co. Ltd., Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI —The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
to state only that the very raising of tins
question is devoid of any foundation. *he
charges against Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and Albania
are utterly arbitrary. [Actually, they were the
findings of U.N.O.’s own investigators; merely
confirming countless reports by other inves-
tigating observers.]
Palestine Also
To those issues openly projected in the
curtain-raising speeches has to be added
as another major one the Palestine
problem. Since that was dealt with here in
detail, Britain has officially announced its
intention to get out, thus leaving file
awkward and ugly issue wholly with
U.N.O. As expected, Zionist “disap-
pointment” began to be heard instantly
hitherto execrated Britain announced its
overdue decision. Palestine now lies
directly in the way in the U.S.-Soviet
clash of interests, with the oil-owning
Arabs able to watch the moves in that
clash with greatly increased confidence.
The Zionist “disappointment” must be
looked on in Britain as a wry turn of
poetic justice. Palestine certainly must be
included among the big deciding issues in
the U.S.-Soviet head-on clash in the halls
of U.N.O.
The oil the Arabs own is the main
ingredient of the U.S.-Soviet clash in that
particular quarter, but the real issue is
the same there as elsewhere —the old one
of balance of power. The Alsop brothers
(included in the Vishinsky list of “violent
warmongers”) touch on this aspect of
the clash in “Saturday Evening Post”;
Assume that the Soviet Union wins the con-
test for the Near and Middle East. The fol-
lowing consequences will ensue: without oil,
Britain will be prostrate —and the only power
centre in Europe or Asia capable of sustained
resistance to the Soviets will be conveniently
eliminated. At the same time, the Soviets will
gain control of an immense wedge of territory
at the heart and crossroads of the Eurasiatic
land mass, commanding the Mediterranean to
the westward, Egypt and the approaches to
Africa to the south-west, India to the southward,
and the trans-Asiatic land routes to the east.
In short, victory in the present contest will
confer on the Soviet predominance in Europe
and Asia, and, by extension, in Africa, which
is now a European colonial dominion. [Thus
the Arab countries hold a very strong bargain-
ing position, with Palestine caught in the
squeeze.]
U.N.O. Majority Views
N.Y. “Times,” unanswerably demolish-
ing Vishinsky statements in a cutting
editorial, also indicates lines the U.N.O.
consideration will take on the declared
issues: —-
Mr. Vishinsky says the United States resists
“every attempt to dismantle the existing stock
of atomic bombs and outlaw their further pro-
duction.” But the United States proposals,
which seek to do what Mr. Vishinsky says
they seek to avoid, have had the support of
a majority of the United Nations Atomic Energy
Commission—usually by a vote of ten to two.
Mr. Vishinsky says the Truman Doctrine and
the Marshall Plan are attempts to impose our
[U.S.] will upon Europe. The essential fact
of the Truman Doctrine is that we took over
obligations assumed by Britain with Allied
assent during the war. The Marshall Plan
was eagerly accepted by 16 nations, and would
have been accepted by several more if it had
not been for Russian pressure. Russia herself
was invited to participate. The principles of
this plan can command a heavy majority vote
in the Assembly, and Mr. Vishinsky knows it.
Mr. Vishinsky finds the majority report of
the Balkan Commission “full of contradictions
and gross exaggerations.” But these findings,
made by a Security Council agency, were sup-
ported by an eight-to-two vote. Possibly Russia
is in step and the rest of the regiment out of
step. But the truth is that Russia’s rhythm,
as conveyed by Mr. Vishinsky, is not that of
the majority of the Assembly, that of the
majority of the Security Council, or, in short,
that of the majority of the United Nations.
After the speeches, the issues Were
hurried into relevant U.N.O. committees,
no doubt with the feeling that “open dip-
lomacy” has its limits of safety and that
Mr. Vishinsky had exhausted them. The
real decider, however, will be the votes
in public, which should lead to an end
of all fence-sitting, could lead to the end
of present U.N.0., and might lead to an
end, one way or the other, of h peace
which is about as phony as anything of
the name could very well be.
EQUALITY OF SACRIFICE.
In its correspondence columns London
“Times” has given prominence to a dis-
cussion on the principle of “equality of
sacrifice” as between U.S. and Britain in
the war; a principle put forward in the
first place by Mr. Roosevelt and also
subscribed to by President Truman.
The discussion, reflecting British resent-
ment of American criticism of Britain’s
recovery effort, can be fairly represented
by Sir Geoffrey Whiskard’s contribution:
Great Britain has emerged from a war which
she and the United States, with their allies,
fought in common, and with common aims, im-
mensely poorer than when she entered it. The
United States has emerged substantially richer.
Why is this? The American “man in the
street” tends, I gather, naturally enough, to
assume that this result is due partly to the
superior efficiency of the Americans ovcr_ the
British, and partly to the fact that Great Britain
has (so he is told) “gone red”; and he is there-
fore quite prepared to think either that Great
Britain should stew in her own juice, or that
any help given by the United States is a form
of charity for which Great Britain should be
becomingly, and politically, grateful.
Holding that that is a point of view
which should be corrected, the writer
makes the following points as additions
to the unequal share of the financial
burden shouldered by Britain:
Although the population of the United States
is more than three times that of Great Britain,
their respective losses in dead (apart frofti the
Washington “Post.”
BUT DON’T GO NEAR THE WATER.
50,000 British civilians killed in air-raids) were
numerically roughly equal. The dead were all
actual or potential producers, and this great
comparative disproportion has therefore, apart
from all other considerations, imposed a heavy
economic handicap on Great Britain as against
the United States.
In the interval of more than a year between
the outbreak of war and the institution of lend-
lease, Great Britain and the British Dominions
bore alone practically the'whole cost of the war.
This involved the loss of foreign investments,
which had previously made so important a con-
tribution towards closing the gap between our
visible imports and our visible exports. No
corresponding burden fell to the United States.
During the same period. Great Britain was
compelled to convert, and did convert, practi-
cally the whole of her productive peace-time
industry to the non-productive manufactures of
war. When the United States entered the war
it was unnecessary for her to make anything
like so large a conversion. Consequently the
change-over from war to peace was materially
easier and quicker, and very materially cheaper
in the United States than in Great Britain.
Great Britain emerged from the war with a
considerably smaller mercantile marine and the
United States with a considerably larger one
than before the war. This again has diminished
Britain’s capacity to close the gap between
visible imports and exports.
There are other aspects — e.g., the fact that it
was convenient that the United States should
concentrate on the manufacture of bombing
aircraft (which could be flown across the
Atlantic) and that Great Britain should con-
centrate on fighters (which, if manufactured in
the United States, would have had to be brought
to Europe by sea), with the result that the
United States has temporarily acquired practi-
cally a monopoly in civil air transport. But
those which I have mentioned are sufficient to
show that, whether measured by population
or by national income, Great Britain has borne
and is bearing a far higher share of the financial
and material burden of the war than should
be hers if the principle of “equality of sacrifice”
were implemented.
These things are in no way the fault either
of the United States or of Great Britain: but
they ought to be known and they ought now to
be taken into account. They are, of course,
known by the United States Government: but
they are not known, or, if known, thfey are
not appreciated, by any but a very few members
of Congress or of the American public.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
“U.S. Provoked Japan.” —lf the new-risen
Japs want that as a future catchcry they will
be able to use it on high authority; former
U.S. President Herbert Hoover. In an inter-
view for the “American,” Sidney Shalett states
that “Hoover still does not believe it was neces-
sary for the United States to enter the war.”
He quotes: “My theory,” Hoover said, “is that,
if we had kept out of the immediate conflict,
we could have put our sword down on the
table, with our economic resources intact, and
made a decent peace when the time for peace-
making came. I never believed Britain was
in danger of defeat. When Germany attacked
Russia it made a British victory possible. And
we never would have been attacked by the
Japanese if we had not given them provocation.”
* * * * _ , .
Blaming Britain for India. All those who
were lately so clamorous for Britain’s departure
from India (they were even noisier in America
than in India itself) may find little satisfaction
in reading a London “Times” Delhi corres-
pondent’s report; “More Indian people have
been killed during the short space of the past
month than in all the civil broils of the past
50 years. Millions have been rendered home-
less. A transfer of populations has been enforced
on two Administrations reluctant and ill-fitted
to cope with it that, already dwarfs in scale
anything caused by war in Europe. India lives
on a bare margin of subsistence at the best
of times, and already the twin evils of pestilence
and famine loom large on the horizon. The
mood of the people has turned to bitterness
and frustration. Men on both sides of the
new boundaries talk of the opposite community
with a venom and anger that the British rarely
expressed towards the Germans or even the
Japanese in the worst days of the war. All
their old suspicions of the British have re-
turned, and, the British are blamed for causing
this mess, for partisanship, for taking pleasure
in seeing that the predictions of the pessimists
have been realised, even for having quitted
India too soon.” Such blaming will no doubt
now become the fashion elsewhere. It takes
almost as much to satisfy clamorous wiseacres
as to silence them.
* * * .*
. Soviet Break-up. —Whatever chaos might pos-
sibly follow the passing of Stalin, N.Y. “Journal-
American” veteran correspondent Karl H. von
Wiegand has reported from Europe that nothing
of the kind is likely to occur as a result of
internal troubles that Russia is currently suffer-
ing. Wiegand reports that “the Soviet Govern-
ment has been having difficulties, in fact, great
difficulties particularly grave in the Ukraine,”
but these are being overcome, and, apart from
the dictatorship control still being able to
enforce anything, there is another reason why
no change inside Russia or in Soviet foreign
policy is likely to result: “Russia is a primitive
country, and its people can and do endure and
put up with hardships and conditions no
Western people could or would tolerate.”
* * * *
War Would Be Long. —Discounting 'the
notion that another war “would consist chiefly
of a few air excursions with atomic bombs,”
U.S. Rear-Admiral Zacharias contends in
“United Nations World” that it would prob-
ably be “the longest war in history,” and would
result in complete destruction of vast parts of
the inhabited earth: “Humanity is deeply
divided, and in case of such a conflict hundreds
of millions of people would be unable to de-
cide with whom to align themselves. It would
be the most ruthless atomic, biological, bac-
teriological, rocket and genocide war that
humanity has ever experienced.” Also, “If
war begins outside of the United Nations frame-
work it will be almost impossible to establish
the real aggressor. Each side will contend that
it is fighting for the highest ideals —the Western
world will proclaim that it is fighting for the
establishment of democracy everywhere in the
world, while Russia will say that it is fighting
for the establishment of universal socialism,”
Still, the winners would have the Nuremberg
precedent to guide them.
** . *
German Farmers. —In a “Saturday Evening
Post” article written after over two and a half
years of active service in Europe, William G.
Downs, advocating bringing in Europeans for
U.S. farm-work, declares: “My own prefer-
ence would be for German labor.” That, he
adds, “is the result of careful and objective
thought, with no special love for the Germans”:
“My reasons are that the German of today
who wants to come here and work is thoroughly
tractable. He has had his belly full of .political
and economic isms. Now he wants it full of
food. He will be everlastingly grateful for an
opportunity. His living standards of cleanli-
ness, neatness and sanitation nearly approach
our own. He will be more than willing to put
Germany behind him for ever. He would be
not greatly different from those millions of
Germans who came over from the Rhineland,
the Main valley, Baden and Bavaria in the last
century, and whose families are today among
our finest farmers and best citizens in Pennsyl-
vania and in the Middle West and on the
Western plains.” Much the same view prevails
in Britain, where many who worked on farms
as war prisoners are staying on as free laborers.
A far greater number are doing likewise in
France.
* * * *
Cocky Jap on Britain. London “Times”
Tokyo correspondent has reported from the
U.S. Army paper “Stars and Stripes” state-
ments “said to have been made by the Japanese
Prime Minister, Mr. Tetsu Katayama, to a
representative of an American newsagency.
According to the published account of the
interview, Mr. Katayama states that “Japan in
defeat has a better chance of surviving than
victorious Britain, because the Japanese long
ago learned how to tighten their belts.” Britain,
Mr. Katayama said, had begun her campaign
of austerity “too late.’> “The tone of Mr.
Katayama’s remarks as printed,” the corres-
pondent commented, “was strongly reminiscent
of that of Japanese militarists before the war,
who never failed to insist upon the softness
and luxury-loving propensities of the British.
Japan, as opposed to Britain, was, Mr. Kata-
yama said, endeavoring to rebuild her economy
without raising for the time being the living
standards of her people. The Japanese had
carried out already in 1940 many of the
measures which Britain was now trying to
enforce.” The “Times” man dismissed the
Katayama denials as “on a par with those made
by Mr. Ashida, the Foreign Minister, last June
over Japan’s desire for the return of the Ryukyu
Islands and the Kuriles.”
# * * *
Peasants’ Paradise. —One of the Com. promises,
in the Balkans, as elsewhere, was that the
peasants would get the land. As personally
observed by “Christian Science Monitor”
writer R. H. Markham it is working out rather
differently: “At present Eastern Europe is
moving toward a new serfdom. All large farms
throughout the whole area have been seized
and distributed to peasants. This means the
independent farm-owning class is being ex-
terminated. It looks on the surface as though
the 70,000,000 or 80,000,000 peasants in Eastern
Europe are at last to receive land. But that
is deceptive. There is nowhere near enough
land to go around. Not only have very few
peasants received enough new land to live
from, but millions upon millions have received
nothing at all. There is general impoverish-
ment. Consequently most peasants will be
forced into collective farms and labor brigades.
The change is moving toward that and not
toward the independent peasant. This develop-
ment will eventually make all the agriculturists
dependent upon a few powerful bosses. And
any dissenter will be helpless deprived of
bread, home, job. With all independent farmers
wiped out and the peasants forced into work
brigades, every cultivator of the soil will be
subject to party and State control.”


STEELBILT . , . PARTNER OF MODERN INDUSTRY
Wmmm
I mmm
m m
I B
m
»
m
m
111
m
ill
iH- ffi
■Mil
::3
■HIE
m
188
?■
m
ms
™—pin
II
m.
mgmm
mm
-
mm'
■V.: :
. • ■ r. ...
«, m,.J» ■'&" •
-
a
■
m
■■ >* ■•;■-
■
: • •
m
m
i
H
n
H
- ? j
H BlMliMßlßil
w-MtM
HI
/fv
FLOOR SPACE
Behind every Steelbilt storage installa-
tion is a plan. A carefully-designed layout-
plan based on a meticulous survey before-
hand by Steelbilt experts.
There is no guesswork. Right before the
installation the survey proves just how a
Steelbilt Storage Layout can stretch valu-
able floor space . . . how it results in the
faster handling of stock and materials . . .
how it guarantees time-saving and greater
facilities for increased production.
Because Steelbilt Standardised Shelving
is adjustable ... it is adaptable to all
methods of storage.
If you have a storage problem, a telephone
call places a Steelbilt expert at your service.
LIMITED
(A WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRY)
Sydney and Melbourne
Represented elsewhere in Australia and New Zealand by
Wormald Brothers Pty. Limited.
LOCKERS, CABINETS, STORAGE BINS, FILING CABINETS AND FACTORY EQUIPMENT
cafr a


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3531
Wednesday, October 15, 1947
ALL SET FOR THE SWIM-THROUGH-MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adam#
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"BLANK CHEQUE."
At the beginning of March six of the
seven Governments called themselves
“Labor.” Intervening in the South Aus-
tralian Assembly election, and sending
two of his Ministers into the constituen-
cies, the Prime Minister urged Mr.
Richards, the Opposition-leader, to “com-
plete the chain.” In that Mr. Richards
failed dismally, and the Westralian link
of the chain was unexpectedly but effi-
ciently snapped only a week later. The
country can now see, country people
especially, why Mr. Chifley wanted to
complete it.
If the electors approve of expropria-
tion of the banks, there is nothing more
to be said. But throughout Australia,
and above all, in the inland, they have
been making very plain that they do not
approve.
In the first Parliamentary engagement
on the expropriation issue a South
Australian country member (A. G.
Cameron) said “I don’t know whether
the Prime Minister lost his temper;
but I do know that the decision
which he has now made has created the
most dreadful apprehension that has beset
the minds of the Australian people since
Federation.” And a Victorian country
member (John McEwen) said:
If the Australian people are prepared to
accept the printing of some 26-year-o!d
words in the Labor platform as justification
for this • overnight revolutionary decision,
and thus show that they no longer expect
a political party to declare and explain its
intentions when seeking, election, then the
prospect for the future is positive night-
mare One must, while the Labor party
remains in office, rush each morning for
the newspaper in order to learn whether
the right honorable gentleman has decided
overnight upon collective farming or the
complete nationalisation of all transport
services or grocery shops an intolerable
prospect under which business will not
plan beyond tomorrow and private enter-
prise will wane.
The sentiments and warnings of these
members and others have been expressed
at hundreds of public meetings and in
scores of protesting petitions—forwarded
to Canberra in the full knowledge that
they would be consigned, as it were, to
the Chifley incinerator —unparalleled in
modern political history. The Chifley
Ministry’s deceit of the electors is abhor-
rent to every citizen who believed —and
still believes —that the Constitution and
Parliamentary custom gave him the right
to pronounce in advance upon the policy
which an elected leader undertakes to
follow. One speaker after another in
debate in the House showed from election
records that the Chifley programme now
exposed has no warrant whatever from
the electors, and that whenever “Labor”
had ventured to espouse nationalisation of
industry at the polls it had been defeated.
The Chifleys, from a position where
the electors cannot get at them for an-
other two years, propose to fill in for
themselves, as Mr. Dedman puts it, “a
blank cheque.” They never had a blank
cheque, nor did any other Australian
Administration before or since Mr. Ded-
man’s arrival in Australia ; what the in-
effable immigrant of the 1922 vintage
means by that term is that at the election
in September, 1946, his leader “made it
clear that he did not intend to promise
anything.” Mr. Chifley certainly did that,
and everybody who heard his lame and
mournful radio recital of his policy
speech—he did not even present himself
on a public platform to deliver it—will
semember the gloom with which the
ranks of “Labor” received it. It was a
lifeless offer of a lifeless programme.
Mr. Chifley did not know whether to bacK
a “Golden Age” or a Recession, and was
trying to get a bit on both ways. And that
is what he allows Mr. Dedman to describe
now as seeking and receiving a blank
cheque for socialisation—“open cheque”
is Mr. Rosevear’s expression when Mr.
Rosevear leaves the Chair to become as
rank a partisan as Mr. Ward.
Even Mr. Chifley himself does not go
as far as to proffer that excuse. No;
declares that he is justified in expropriat-
ing the trading banks because the Fathers
of the Constitution half a century ago
agreed to the Federal Parliament’s having
power to make laws with respect to
banking. He does not express it in those
words, nor does he add the vital clause
about “peace, order, and good govern-
ment,” which is very pertinent now.
Having taken that hurdle by the simple
device of running around it, he next says
that the “Labor” platform has through-
out the party’s existence “never left any
doubt in the public mind that it believes
in the complete control of the financial
and monetary system.” That again is
but the mildest description of an “objec-
tive” hitherto so repugnant to the mass of
electors that it has always been kept
as mere window-dressing for the attrac-
tion of militant voters, the Communist
“objective” being precisely the same. The
“Labor” platform stands for:
The socialisation of industry, production
and exchange (by the methods of)
nationalisation of banking, credit and in-
surance (including sick, accident, life and
unemployment), monopolies, shipping, pub-
lic health, wireless transmission (including
broadcasting) and sugar refining.
Further, as a means to socialisation of
everything, the aims (set out in the plat-
form) are to abolish the Federation by
investing the central Government with un-
limited legislative powers, even the power
to abolish the Senate. To all this State
“Labor” platforms, aiding and abetting,
add the abolition of Legislative Councils
and of State Governors.
Is it, therefore, enough for Mr. Chifley
to say, as he prepares to start without
notice on this programme, that his party
“never left any doubt in the public mind
that it believes in complete control of
the monetary system”? His further plea
in justification is that he had made it
clear in his minority report on the Bank-
ing Commission’s inquiry of 10 years
ago that he favored “nationalisation” of
the trading banks and that therein he was
acting as spokesman for his party. He
was not then a “Labor” M.H.R., and if
he had been that still would not furnish
him with a mandate from the electors for
expropriating the banks. And there is no
mistaking the resolution of the country
that before Mr. Chifley goes any further
he shall either produce a mandate or have
a whale of a fight on his hands.
The doubts and fears within the
“Labor” movement are highly instruc;
tive. They were voiced in the Canberra
Caucus itself by W. P. Conelan, a Queens-
lander with an unsafe seat. In Adelaide the
A.L.P. has carpeted P. H. Quirke, M.H.A.,
for having publicly attacked the party
president’s description of bank share-
holders as “bloodsucking parasites” and
for a reference to some others’ “ill-in-
formed. rantings.” The A.L.P. branch
at Narrabri (N.S.W.) solemnly held
a meeting of “about 25 persons,
including some from other branches,”
to rescind a resolution (“highly
embarrassing to the Government”) which
declared that “the majority of the
people” were “opposed to ‘nationalisa-
tion.’ ”
This country-branch protest had fol-
lowed a public meeting, attended by 600
people, at which the chairman, a school-
teacher, speaking in favor of expropria-
tion “as the Government representative in
Narrabri,” was hooted with derision, and
in a statement to the branch changed
his mind. The atmosphere was reflected
in a statement by a Mr. Gleeson, “a
staunch Labor man”* and former vice-
president of the branch:
We decided to protest [he said] because
we believed the public was not ready for
nationalisation My own view is -that
bank nationalisation would be most un-
wise and can do nothing but harm to the
Labor movement. 1 do not believe the
Government has a mandate, and I am con-
vinced that if it had been mentioned speci-
fically in the party’s policy at the last elec-
tion campaign the Government would have
been beaten On this issue the people are
against the Government.
And a Mr. Griffiths, of the Sydney A.L.P.
executive, writing on “the Labor view-
point” in “S. M. Herald,” tied himself
into knots.
Mr. Griffiths railed at the Communists
for “mischievously” supporting “Labor’s”
expropriation policy, on the ground that
the community will deduce that “there is
a relationship between them.” Mr.
Griffiths applied the term “poppycock” to
“the Communist plea that bank nationali-
sation will cushion the effects of overseas
and local depression.” But Mr. Griffiths
must have had a rush of blood to the
head when a week later, in those same
columns, he read Mr. “Fighting Bill”
Taylor, Mr. Chifley’s trusted jack-of-all-
administration, writing precisely that same
phrase as Mr. Chifley’s view and his own.
So much for “Labor’s” pretence of a
mandate. There should never be any
pretence henceforth. When Mr. Cain
goes to the electors, when Mr. Chifley
goes, when any of the other “Labor”
leaders go, it should not matter what
they say in their policy speeches. Mr.
Chifley has made that plain. The electors
have had notice that any “moderate”
stuff is all hooey; that whatever is said
on the platform, “Labor,” if elected, will
go ahead with “socialisation” regardless
of the election policy its leader may have
proclaimed.
Even constitutional referendum re-
turns, however positively “No,” are
ignored. This Government was .defeated
at the referendum on aviation powers.
It ignored the vote and established an
inter-State air service, which, as is
admitted, is losing money hand over fist.
It was turned down on a referen-
dum (the latest of a series) seeking powers
over industry. The expropriation of
the trading banks without a mandate is
calculated to bypass the majority “No”
vote at that appeal, as well as to seize
powers over the citizen and his bank
balance undreamed of by the framers of
the Constitution when they wrote their
“Chapter IV. —Finance and Trade.”
Victoria to Have Its Hour.
A tactical blunder on the part of 19
Victorian Ms.L.C. has secured a dissolu-
tion of the Assembly, in which a “Labor”
minority ran the show by grace of a
“Liberal” Speaker, who —unlike Mr.
Rosevear at Canberra —considered him-
self above the party battle, and a couple
of Independents. This is no public
calamity, for the House thus constituted
was neither useful nor ornamental, and
the “Government” made a poor fist of
everything it tackled, especially housing.
If defeated in the constituencies, as it de-
serves to be, the “Government” will be
favorably remembered only by the. racing
interest for the revival of week-day
“meetings” and for the legalising of
night trotting, with bookmakers.
But because of the tactical blunder the
election issues will be confused —
“Labor” will see to that.
The intention of the Council majority
was that there should be only one issue,
the One Big Bank issue, and it is emi-
nently desirable that the One Big Bank
issue should be put to the vote in a repre-
sentative State, There was nothing to
prevent the Assembly Opposition pro-
posing a referendum, one argument for
which would have been the Cain “Gov-
ernment’s” support for the Chifley
attempt to compel State Administrations,
willing or unwilling, and municipalities,
nearly all unwilling, to bank only with
the institution of which Mr. Chifley, as
Treasurer, has taken cintrol.
Such a manoeuvre would have placed
the Melbourne “Government” on the de-
fensive and reduced it to a choice
between abandonment of Chifley compul-
sion and abandonment of the referendum
plank of the “Labor” platform, which
has been part of that structure from the
beginning. Cain refusal of a One Big
Bank referendum would have given the
Leg. Council fair ground for refusing
temporary Supply, particularly as it
could have been argued that temporary
• Supply is inconsistent with Parliamentary
control of the public purse. For Parlia-
mentary control of the public purse many
brave English-speaking men laid down
their lives, and to it British “Labor”
itself adheres. As a standard English pub-
lication puts it;
The Committee of Supply controls the
public expenditure by considering the grants
of money that will be required for the
Navy, Army, air services and civil services
during the current year upon the estimates
of that expenditure proposed by Ministers
of the Crown.
But to Australian “Labor” this is only
food for laughter. With three months of
the financial year gone and no Budget in-
troduced, Mr. Cain chose to follow the
slipshod and dangerous custom of ask-
ing for piecemeal Supply.
The Council was in fact asked to vote
Supply for a month. In rejecting this
measure, and a subsequent measure in
which the period was extended to two
months, it acted within its constitutional
rights. In the debate on the first impro-
visation the constitutional position was
stated with'rare and refreshing candor by
one of the “Labor” Ms.L.C., former
Minister Beckett:
The Constitution provides that if this
House and the other House disagree the
Council can force the Assembly to the
country, but if the Government is returned
to power we are required to pass the
measure. If we refuse to do so we must
go to the country, and if, after that, the
two Houses still disagree, they must meet
together.
But, as it happened, rejection was
moved by a member, Frank Clarke, who
four or five months before had depre-
cated Second Chamber interference with
money bills. He is, moreover, the director
of a bank, and within a few days his
bank, with others, was offering to ad-
vance to civil servants the equivalent of
the pay they had been unable to collect
because of the refusal of Supply. Within
another few days his bank had announced
a profit of £421,951 for the year to Sep-
tember 30. Though this is by no means
excessive for a very well-managed insti-
tution with a capital of £6,726,025, nor is
the annual dividend (6 per cent.) any-
thing out of the way—it would be
chickenfeed to “Labor’s” patron Wren—
the unfortunate set of circumstances will
provide election ammunition for a party
sorely in need of it. The whole business
will be described by every “Labor”
speaker on the hustings and by every
“Labor” and Communist scribbler as “a
bankers’ plot.” It was, of course, nothing
of the kind, but many resentful and un-
thinking persons may swallow the story.
If they do they may live to regret it.
Certainly they will have bitter cause for
self-reproach if the Cain mob —composed
entirely of bank expropriators, like the
Chifley mob—is returned. Even if the
Cain mob has to depend, as hitherto, on
the favor of a couple of nondescripts, the
result will be hailed by “Labor” and
Communism everywhere as a Victorian
verdict for bank expropriation.
After all, what the Council did was
trifling compared with the outrage com-
mitted and the mob demonstrations
threatened by Brown, the Communist,
who, giving one more arrogant example
of the dangerous power Communist ruf-
fianism has been permitted to seize,
stopped railway traffic for two hours,
though his trainmen had no grievance—
their pay wasn’t stopped. It is nothing
to the threat to Australia conveyed in
the revival of the Comintern and the
sinister language in which the declara-
tion of a total war of espionage and sedi-
tion on the democracies was proclaimed,
Nothing, indeed, to what the people of
Victoria will suffer, in common with the
people of other States—and, above all,
the country people —if “Labor” grabs
the banks and runs them in the spirit
exemplified by the sale of 17s. wheat at
ss. 9d.; by the appropriation of sheep-
men’s profits on trading in wool; by the
salary steal, which violated “Labor’s” own
wage-pegging “policy” ; by the fat jobs
made for defeated “Labor” politicians;
by the riot of dollar-squandering “Labor”
jaunts abroad, with the 1.L.0. racket as
the principal pretext, and by the Speaker,
who descends from the Chair to become
a merchant of mob passion and hate.
And a “Labor” banking monopoly
would be run in that spirit, with crass
incompetency added, for “Labor” knows
no other.
"Go West. Young Man!"
Australia has cause to envy United
States population fi i.
From June 30, 19„., lo September 30,
1946, Australia gained little more than
800.000 people from natural increase and
immigration, going from 6,629,800 to
7,466,400. The further advance to be
revealed by the recent census, when dis-
sected, will be immaterial. But on July
1, 1946, U.S. continental population, tak-
ing in servicemen overseas, was reckoned
by the Census Bureau at 141,228,600, an
increase of 9,160,000 in six years. The
actual addition was greater than was
suggested by a brief cablegram published
in one or two Australian newspapers.
One significant feature from which this
country can take a morsel of comfort
when it contemplates the Pacific scene
is a vast movement of Americans to the
Pacific Slope. “Go West, young man!”
has become an inspiration to present-day
Americans, as it was immediately before
and immediately after the Civil War.
During the 1940-1946 period California,
Oregon and Washington added 3,281,000
to their numbers, a total not far short
of the combined increase in the other
45 States and the Alaskan territory:
3.712.000. California’s increase was
2.485.000, giving it a population of
9.342.000 and raising it from fifth to
third among the States, being exceeded
only by New York (13,693,200) and
Pennsylvania (10,004,200). Exclusive of
armed forces overseas, those States had
comparatively small increases during the
six years —New York, 262,600; Penn-
sylvania, 123,500.
Before many years are out California
may be the first among equals. For
Australia that will be all to the good, for
in no part of the Union, except possibly
some of the small Southern States, is
feeling for the British Commonwealth so
warm. But to turn from California and
its two Pacific sisters to our own western
State is a rather melancholy proceeding.
The population of Westralia at the end
of 1943 was a mere 495,300, about one
per two square miles, and 263,000 were
set down as living in the capital city.
The increase for 13i years was only
56,500. Under the impulse of scare when
the big cities were discovered to be mili-
tary liabilities “Labor” had vague plans
for shifting city industries to the country
and populating the two big frontier States.
The scare over, and “Labor” more of a
Big City party than ever, the plans, but
not the people, have gone West. Indeed,
“Labor” is set on depriving country
towns and townships of nearly all their
bank staffs.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Big or Little Australian?
Mr McKell, no longer “the Prisoner
of Zenda,” cast up in Perth (W.A.) last
week posing as a Big Australian. An
“Argus” report had him saying at “a State
luncheon” that “in the eyes of some
people he had not been true to his own
State, biit he had always taken the view
that it was Australia, pot the States, that
counted.”
Who are these “people”? No betting
man will admit that Mr. McKell was not
“true to his own State.” Didn’t he give
it his wonderful war-time creation the
Sydney Turf Club, and didn’t he save one
of its seedy racecourses from being
desecrated by a Nuffield factory?
There was more in the “Argus” report
of the McKell speech, which perhaps
reads better in the third person and the
past tense:
On occasions when he had attended
Premiers’ conferences on behalf of New
South Wales he had always felt that the
chief consideration was the Commonwealth.
He had always felt that there was a deep
obligation on the part of those represent-
ing the more populous States to ma|e their
contribution toward the development of the
less populated States. It was a contribution
every Australian should make.
What and when were these “occasions”?
Mr. McKell went to his first Premiers’
Conference and Loan Council, as
Premier, at the beginning of August,
1941. The war was then going badly, and
worse was in store. Britain, hard-pressed
on the sea and in the air, had been driven
out of France and Belgium “with the loss
of all its B.E.F. equipment at Dunkirk.
The British Commonwealth forces had
been driven out of Greece and Crete.
Beasley’s—no, Morshead’s— men were
beleaguered in Tobruk. Was Mr. McKell
chastened? He was not.
At the Loan Council Mr. McKell de-
manded £18,163,000 from the pool “to
carry out the policy on which we were
elected.” His press agent pictured him as
“fighting like a tiger,” and contending
that “certain features of his social pro-
gramme paralleled the war effort.” Told
by Mr. Fadden, then Treasurer, that he
would have to get along with £7,405,000,
since the resources of the loan market
were limited and £3,482,000 was needed
for Commonwealth defence works,
“Tiger” McKell growled horribly. A
sympathetic Sydney paper recorded one
of the growls:
It is an infamous state of affairs that a
couple of mendicant States with popula-
tions comparable only’with that of the City
of Sydney should be able to deny the
people of Sydney facilities.
“Mendicant States”! So the gentle-
man’s 1941 way of discharging the deep
obligation he claims now to have “always
felt” was to come out against “the
development of the less-populated States”
by trying to grab an inordinate share of
the loan money then available, and add-
ing insult to attempted injury.
“The people of Sydney,” it should be
said, are still denied “the facilities”
promised on the hustings by Mr. McKell
and party —all except “facilities” for
buying Government lottery tickets and
betting on horses, dogs, football matches
(on Sundays as well as Saturdays), boat-
races and the rest. Not because of any
failing on the part of “mendicant States,”
“the people of Sydney,” after six years
of McKell “Labor,” are worse off for
housing and transport facilities and
soldier-settlement than any other com-
munity, but their measure of “facilities”
for gambling is full and brimming over.
Mr. Graham and Mr. Pollard.
In August it became evident that if the
good season held the whole Australian
wheatbelt, parts of W-A. excepted, would
strip a heavy crop. It was here stated (B.
24/9/’47) that there wouldn’t be trains
enough to cart it, ships enough to lift it
or silos or bags to store it unless some-
body did something mighty quick.
Presently Mr. Graham, the N.S.W.
Minister of Agriculture, was heard de-
claring that there was nothing to worry
about; he had been assured that there
was sufficient of everything.
It is harvest-eve now; within a fort-
night the headers will be in the early
north-west N.S.W. crops. But Mr.
Graham has had to announce that his
own State’s crop faces a “grave shortage”
of trucks, bags and silos, and Mr. Graham
—a pig-farmer, by all accounts —pro-
poses to rush the building of galvanised-
iron bulkheads. Where he is to get the
iron is another matter. Even if he does
he’ll be lucky if he can make enough
bulkheads to hold a million bags. The
N.S.W. crop is tipped to go better than
30 million bags.
Mr. Graham is “Labor.” He was foolish
enough to leave everything to Mr. Pol-
lard’s Wheat Board —Mr. Pollard is also
“Labor”—and the Pollard Wheat Board
“controls” everything from the seed to the
ship’s hold. Mr. P.’s Board told Mr. G,
that he would get 11,700,000 bags. Then
it cut the figure to 10,500,000. Presently
it was down to 9,000,000. Said Com-
rade G. sadly, “Some of the figures which
the Wheat Board has given me in writing
must be inaccurate.”
What bags the Wheat Board (Mr.
Pollard, “Labor”) has are to be rationed
four to the acre in non-silo districts and
one to the acre where there are silos.
Anybody familiar with harvest conditions
can imagine what sort of messing about
and delay that means. Nobody cares
to imagine what the loss in vermin-
and weather-damaged grain will be, nor
need anybody imagine that Mr. Pollard
(“Labor”) or his Wheat Board will admit
failure to meet a situation that has been
staring them in the face for weeks.
Meantime there is no mention of
any check to the “Labor” movement of
wheat to “Labor” New Zealand;
18,000,000 bushels at ss. 9d.; current
export price, 17 s.
Coal in the North.
All Queensland is astir with stories
about the great Blair Athol coal deposits,
concerning which it was alleged that the
Federal “Labor’s” bank-grab proposals
had scared the London company—Elec-
tric Supply Corporation— out of its in-
tentions to develop the field.
Early in the month Premier Hanlon
—“Labor,” but in this matter he has
abandoned “Labor”-socialism, having
found that it won’t work wi(£ coalmines
was assuring his Parliament that every-
thing was going well, and that he had had
the first draft of the agreement from the
E.S.C. solicitors. This brought J. M.
Mulherin, secretary of Mackay-Blair
Athol Railway League, up with the state-
DUTY PAID, DUTY CALLS!
“Car Goes 1200 miles for Ward Luggage....The Collector of Customs said Mr. Ward had
made a formal declaration of the goods brought in and paid a considerable amount. Mr.
Ward and party left Australia early in June.” — Brisbane “Courier.”
“Get the stuff aboard, Joe, and I’ll be in Sydney before you. I’m due there
immediately to tear the tripe out of those greedy cows of privileged plutocrats.”
ment that in late August the League had
been “officially advised by letter” that
the deal was off.
The Federal Government announced
intentions which make it impossible for the
company to go ahead with the project, at
least for the present.
Mr. Pie, the Q.P.P, leader, then gave
notice that he would ask the Premier if
this were true. Whereupon J. T. Hirst,
the E.S.C. representative, informed the
“Courier-Mail” that his company was
going ahead and the “negotiations are in
an advanced stage.” He also suggested
that a little patience was necessary, point-
ing out that a big thing like Blair Athol
couldn’t be got going in a week or two
or a year or two “because big machines
take a long time to obtain.”
Meantime a Mr. Foot, chairman of the
Powell Duffryn companies—one of the
biggest in England before British
“Labor” nationalised coal —was expected
in Queensland on Saturday. Beaten to
the Blair Athol prize, he’s to have a look
at the Bowen, Callide, Burrum Bluff,
Ipswich and Rosewood fields to see what
English capital can do with them.
The Bowen people want the proposed
Blair Athol railway taken through
Collinsville to Bowen, claiming that the
terrain is easier for rail construction and
that Bowen harbor leaves Mackay and
Broadsound far behind in suitability.
What’s more, Bowen claims that its own
coalfield, only 45 miles from the port —
Blair Athol is 140 miles away—is 20
square miles in area and has reserves esti-
mated at 400 million tons, twice the esti-
mate for Blair Athol. Anyhow, Bowen
is out to impress the E.S.C. people with
its claims, and to show that a line to
Collinsville will not only touch big coal
deposits but will pass by gold, copper,
silver, lead and bismuth deposits only
awaiting development.
These and related things have stirred
up other parts. A hundred miles out of
Rockhampton lies the Bluff field, said to
be Queensland’s biggest with 500 million
tons of coal, and around Callide they’re
crying about their 100 ft. seam accessible
to open-cut mining.
One way and another Queensland is
discovering that in all the years that it
has been subject to the whims of the
N.S.W. coalminers it not only had
enough coal for itself but could have been
supplying the rest of Australia, and that
from open-cut mines, which don’t con-
duce to strikes or the making of mining
communities that become insular and
alien from the rest of the country. Why
the coal wasn’t opened up long ago is
one of those questions only likely to arise
in a country dominated by Big-City
Governments.
St. Gabriel's Trump.
England has a vicar who promises to
become as famous as the Vicar of Bray,
though for a very different reason. No-
thing like that vicar, and nothing like
those Russia-is-always-Right worthies the
Dean of Canterbury and the Bishop of
Goulburn, neither of whom has been
heard from for some time, the Rev. Irving
Bulman, Vicar of St. Gabriel’s, Crickle-
wood, was moved to robust Christian
anger by what Mr. Shinwell said of the
middle class (“We know the organised
workers arc our friends and the rest don’t
matter a tinker’s cuss”); and what he said
delighted everyone but the Shinwells and
friends.
Asked by the Mayor of Willesden to
start another national savings group in
his church, the Vicar of St. Gabriel’s re-
plied with an apt quotation of Mr. Shin-
well’s attack and with an abrupt re-
fusal, crisply explained:
We belong to the class whose incomes
were reduced during the war and have gone
down further since. We have paid for two
wars, and we are having to draw on past
savings to keep our heads above water
because of the penal and predatory taxation
of the Labor Government—God save the
mark!
This time, dear old Comrade, we are
going to stand aside and watch the humor-
ously-styled “working classes” pay the trill.
It’s about time they did, but I think you
will have a tough time persuading them.
You’ve had it, chum. Kiss Mr. Dalton
for me —twice.
Fulfilling the delighted anticipations of
half the nation, the vicar returned to the
subject in a sermon, and again what he
said was plenty. “Leaning over his
marble pulpit,” and offering a hearty
welcome to “spivs, drones, eels, butter-
flies and tinker’s cusses,” he accused the
Labor party of “preaching envy, hatred,
malice and uncharitableness. Some of
them go further, saying ‘Be my brother
or I’ll knock your bloody head off.’”
Instead of the Christian unity of love we
are given the devilish unity of hate. It
cannot be too clearly realised that the dif-
ference between English socialism and the
Russian variety and the German variety is
only one of time.
Cabinet Ministers abuse and deride the
middle class. “Government by insult”
might be the motto of the incompetents
masquerading as the King’s Government.
You must not run your own little cars,
but you may rejoice in seeing the Rolls
Royces and Daimlers bought for Cabinet
Ministers.
“Rolls Royces and Daimlers,” eh! In
Australia “Labor” Ministers and their
friends were content with a fleet of fluid-
drive Chryslers till these war-time pur-
chases were used up; then they bought
r another fleet of 1947 Buicks—just before
they introduced their restrictions on cars,
[ parts and petrol for But let
: us return to the vicar:
1 England is now a vast concentration
i camp. Foreign travel has been stopped
; for ordinary people. The coinage has been
, debased. The cost of 46 essential articles
increased last month. Our ancient aris-
tocracy has been shattered, the country
i gentry have been ruined, and now it is the
; turn of the professional and middle classes.
. We must fight!
i The vicar concluded the service by
i asking the congregation to sing the
: “National Anthem—not the Red Flag
this time!” Labor members sang that
: “funeral march of a fried eel” at the
; opening of the Parliament which ushered
m the rule of the most disastrous legis-
i lative body and Government Britain has
' known since the days of Lord North.
Two or three days later the vicar had
the satisfaction of learning that Mr. Shin-
well had been taken from the Fuel
Ministry and the Cabinet and relegated
to the War Office —perhaps to make war
on the middle class.
Exit Qantas.
At midday, October 2, at the Wool
Exchange, Brisbane, there died Qantas,
a gallant company, the brain-child of
Hudson Fysh and Fergus McMaster.
Cause of death was asphyxiation caused
by socialism, a virulent disease trans-
mitted by raucous demagogues.
Qantas was born in 1920. Born
of the first England-Australia flight in
the brain of Hudson Fysh, who surveyed
the route for the competitors and marked
out landing grounds for them from Dar-
win southwards. Combining with Fergus
McMaster, like himself fresh home from
active service, he began an uphill fight,
with small and few aircraft and amid
the laughter of the groundlings, to con-
stitute a typical Digger enterprise.
The career of Qantas was typical of
the normal process of solid Australian
growth. It was an outback enterprise
first with headquarters at Longreach in
Central Queensland. Then it moved to
Brisbane.
From the sturdy boy-adventurer class
it was not long before it became an even
sturdier adult concern, respected by all,
solid in everything it did, conservative
but progressive and finally the parent of
an enterprise much bigger than itself,
which became its major financial interest
—Qantas Empire Airways.
To Qantas and its directors Australia
mainly owes the fact that Australian in-
ternal and external air communication
on a large scale was established; and
it was established on a scale commensur-
ate with the country’s needs and on a
basis of safety and consideration for the
travelling public known nowhere else in
the world.
In war Qantas proved itself worthy of
its origin in the inspiration of Diggers.
When the story comes to be fully
written, some of the most notable
heroisms of the difficult times of 1942 —
including the providoring of Milne Bay
by overstrained flying-boats without even
a toy pistol aboard to ward off Zeros —
will be chalked up to the credit of Qantas
civil pilots ; this apart from what was
done by the gallant band of skilled young
men who transferred themselves from the
line to the R.A.A.F., on whose technique
they had an early and salutary influence.
Qantas started with money subscribed
by friends. Fergus McMaster gave his
services throughout its life at a modest
remuneration. Often he was seriously
out of pocket.
Now his effort is to be taken over by
the Government and his partner with it.
Hudson Fysh continues the general
management of the new Commonwealth-
controlled corporation in which Qantas
interests will be imbedded. Fergus
McMaster goes into retirement with the
thanks of the country and a vote of £2500
from the company.
The developments of the past few
years had made the position of the com-
pany in both local and overseas air trans-
port untenable. The new and savage
supervision of private companies and
their load of taxation no doubt per-
suaded the directors that the writing was
on the horizon for them and that if they
did not sell out the “Government” in
Canberra would find means, legitimate or
illegitimate, to push them out.
In the process the main sufferers would
have been the western towns, which,
though they have provided only a morsel
of the great business of Q.E.A., have
been given services quite out of balance
with their ability to pay, through the
enterprise and insistence of the aerial
pioneers.
If the Government can give service
as good, as courteous and as charac-
teristic as did Qantas in its prime it will
need to let Fysh and others of his kind
have a free hand, which it won’t.


8557
You can
always rely on
'IP
A
kb
kb
■jL^
CRAVEN
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
His luggage cleared by the Customs
without examination and his (or our)
fluid-drive Chrysler waiting at Brisbane,
complete with chauffeur and petrol, to
take it to Sydney, Ward returned to his
native haunts, plus confidential typiste
and private secretary, who straightway
ambles into another job, worth £l5OO a
year and expenses. In a forgetful
moment the five-months tripper held
forth on the wonderful trains he saw in
“capitalist” America. If it is true, as he
boasted when Curtin was about to go
to London, Soviet Russia has “made
more progress in 25 years' than any
‘capitalist’ country has made in ten times
that period,” he should have seen far
more wonderful trains in Russia, and, by
all accounts, the Communist paradise
would have been glad of some of the
50,000 or 60,000 dollars with which he
and party must have been supplied from
the bottom of the pool. But he confined
his wander-year to “capitalist” countries'
and “Labor” Britain, where socialism is
travelling very badly.
Victoria is to have a lightning
Assembly election. Writs were issued and
rolls closed on Tuesday; nominations
day is October 24; polling day is Satur-
day, November 8. “Labor” talks of con-
testing 56 of the 65 seats if it can get the
candidates, meantime asking all the faith-
ful to support the Independents Gardner
(Ivanhoe) and McLaren (Glen Iris) and
the Speaker, Knox (Scoresby). In which
case Gardner and McLaren will Cease to
be Independents and Knox Liberal.
Rosevear has been debasing the
Speaker’s office again, this time by attack-
ing the High Court Bench as “a circus”
of “incompetent septuagenarians.” Rose-
vear’s party named Collings Minister of
the Interior at 76 and kept him in office
until he had turned 80; and it appointed
Gavan Duffy Chief Justice of the High
Court when he was 79.
It would be flattering the Sydney daily
papers to attribute their antagonism to
the Vic, Leg. Council’s action in the dis-
pute with the Cains to a design to assist
the Liberals through VictorianV well-
known antipathy to advice from Sydney
on how to run their affairs. Neverthe-
less, that isn’t the most likely effect. For
many months now Melbourne house-
holders have not known what it is to
turn on a gas tap and be sure of getting
a flame, oi; to go to take a train into the
city (supposing one was running) and be
certain of getting one home again. It
makes them love Sydney more than ever
—especially when volunteering political
advice.
Rosevear, as Speaker, refuses to permit
House discussion of the Goldberg-Keane
case on the ground that it is sub judice ;
but he let Falstein discuss a traffic-case
appeal in which Falstein, refused the ad-
journment he applied for, was accused by
Crown counsel of having been at Rand-
wick on Wednesday when he wasn’t. He
could have got his disclaimer on the
record in another way without being in-
sulting. But, emboldened by the privilege
extended to him, Falstein went on to
allege that Frank Gavan Duffy, his suc-
cessor, his son and Menzies were parties
to a plot to force the father off the High
Court Bench and appoint the son to the
Victorian Supreme Court Bench. Then
at last the fellow was called to order.
Chile, to James Edmond “a long, thin
republic with murder in its eye,” has
enraged Communists the world over, Tito
and his gangsters most of all, by run-
ning two Yugoslav “diplomats” out of
its terrorities for being concerned in “a
wave of strikes.” One of the expelled
“diplomats” came from Argentina with
incriminating documents in his luggage,
and Argentina has made common cause
with Chile in taking “joint and simul-
taneous action against the Sovietisation
of South America,” directed as to Yugos
from “the new Communist International
H.Q. at Belgrade.”
In the “counter-revolutionary” war
South and North Americans are on
common ground, so South' America may
be lost to the Commos. But they still
have Australia (with, of course, Indonesia,
Indo-China and China), where “Labor”
will do nothing to them. Holloway,
replying to an Opposition demand for an
inquiry into the whole ramifications of
the Communist conspiracy, said as much
last week, though he promised to talk the
matter over with Dr. Evatt when that
worthy returns, for a few days or weeks,
which won’t be for a long time.
So far the new Queensland Parlia-
ment’s record of constructive legislation
is a blank, but its debates and exchanges
are providing plenty of material for club
chatter. Last week Q.P.P. leader Pie
invited Aikens to “come outside,” and
Minister Foley said he would “take up
the challenge any time you want it” (no
fight); and Hanlon said of Pie “He will
regret that he ever heard of the [tobacco]
case,” to which Pie retorted “You can’t
threaten me.” Then Pie fell foul of the
Speaker and had to withdraw an asser-
tion that Brassington was “endeavoring
to protect the Governmefit.” This was a
sequel to the Speaker’s disallowance of
one or two questions alleging that Gold-
finch, one of two persons convicted in
“the tobacco case” (Foley was acquitted),
had landed a £10,571 contract with the
Townsville Regional Electricity Board.
Giving the State Electricity Commission
as his authority, Hanlon said, in sub-
stance, “No contract; no work done.”
The disallowed question, asked by Kerr,
insinuated that there had been a contract
and that it had been cancelled. Kerr
thereupon sought details of “hotel ex-
penses, £422 16s. 2d.,” paid for Minister
Bruce during the year to June 30. Details
refused.
From the liveliest proceedings of the
session at Brisbane Patrick Kerry Copley,
member for Kurilpa since 1932, was
absent. He was in the Criminal Court,
defending a charge of having, with Arthur
Joseph Stevens, a bag-store manager,
extorted £5O from Samuel Stephen Wood
by alleging that Stevens was a Common-
wealth health inspector who could make
things hot for Wood. The latter described
himself as a homoeopath, a client of
Copley, a contributor to his election
expenses, a member of the A.L.P. for
six or seven years and a J.P. He admitted
“convictions” ; admitted also that he had
paid the £5O in two amounts between
drinks. The defence was that it was
simply a case of Copley’s borrowing £5O
for “a cobber” temporarily “short,” and
that Stevens, going to Toowoomba, had
sent Copley a Sydney bank cheque “for
loan, kindly arrange with Steve”;
the cheque (it was for £5O) Copley
thrice took to Wood’s premises but
found them closed. The jury, retiring 27
minutes, brought in a verdict of not
guilty.
One character disgustingly familiar in
Australia Ward, Amour, Daly and
Kennelly could not have met in Ireland
because he doesn’t exist there —the
Catholic politician or union boss who
strings along with Communists. He
doesn’t exist in Britain or America either,
being confined to these parts. It was
good to hear Frank Brennan in effect
disassociating himself from the con-
temptible creature by saying, in the de-
bate on the Communist conspiracy,
“Communists are loyal only to a foreign
Power and are un-Christian”; but on
this matter the veteran is in a lone,
though honorable, minority of one.
A correspondent in “S.M. Herald,”
summing up the doctor-patient relation-
ship under McKenna socialisation, said
“the patient would bear the same rela-
tionship to the doctor as the horse to the
veterinary surgeon.” Fairly accurate, but
for “horse” read “donkey.”
It must be distressing to the Chifley-
Evatts to see how their friend General
MacArthur is euchring their efforts at
intervention in the N.E.I. Canberra, of
course, asked for trouble when it moved
U.N.O. to investigate the “dispute” as
international. The Consuls in Java —the
Australian seconding the “Indernesian
comrades,” the Belgian seconding Hol-
land and the American seeing fairplay—
have “examined the general situation”
and prepared a report. Now the Ameri-
can says he won’t sign it until a U.S.
military mission, “with orders straight
from General MacArthur and the War
Department,” has conducted its own in-
vestigation. It is more than likely that
this American stand will have the effect
of reducing the dispute officially to the
purely domestic status which it always
possessed.
If commonsense warnings from busi-
nessmen make any impression at Can-
berra, there is no sign of it. At a self-
summoned “industrial relations confer-
ence” Chifley .uttered some general re-
marks (in the light of his socialisation
proposals, with his tongue in his cheek)
in support of manufacturers’ advocacy of
incentive payments to raise the low level
of production. The A.C.T.U. represen-
tatives mildly agreed, but, caned at their
own conference, they reneged. Chifley
refused any contribution of incentive
from the Government side, such as re-
duced taxation. The chairman of Cresco
Fertilisers has said that by no other means
can rising prices be checked and Turned
back. Even unionists will not fault his
assertion that “cost of living is going up
in a lift while wages are only walking
upstairs.”
The great lot’ry contest between
Queensland “Labor”, and N.S.W. “Labor”
goes on. Any day now a “super-lot’ry”
is likely to break out in Sydney with a
first prize of £20,000 at a pound a ticket.
Queensland has “seen” the N.S.W. “raise”
to £12,000 and “upped it” to £15,000.
As with pugilists when crisis comes, “the
bigger they are the harder they fall,” and
that position will be reached some day.
An exodus of Yugoslavs to Titoland
is beginning in these parts. As Austra-,
bans they would be welcome to stay, as
Communists they are welcome to go ;
but a lot of them will be sorry.
Chifley has been baited into admitting
that his crowd has sent 32 “Labor”
members overseas, “several more than
once.” He omitted Frost and Breen from
the calculation, nor did he mention that
fully six of the listed 32 saw some form
of service in one or other of the World
Wars. Nor did he give individual or total
costs in dollars.
Homelike touches in a London “Times”
article (Sept. 22):
Trade-union membership has increased
by several hundred thousands. The
biggest internal problem is how to keep
prices from rising above wages. The
biggest banks are likely to have been
nationalised by the end of October, bringing
most of industry under indirect State
direction.
“The biggest” Australian banks? No,
“the biggest” in Hungary —now, as the
result of a faked election, “policed” by
the Russian soldiers who raped and looted
wholesale, a Communist State.
Strachey, the British Food Minister, is
to be kept in his job, perhaps because he
has a Plan. A Plan to “ensure big-scale
grower-to-housewife” deliveries of fruit
and vegetables.
It will do such things as providing market
space for producers, organising transport
and combining road and rail transport. We
think that pressure of competition and the
work of this organisation will get you sup-
plies at reasonable prices, but you must not
expect immediate spectacular results.
The Plan? Oh, the same dreary, thread-
bare old notion of bringing fruit and
vegetables under Government control.
Only the poet who sang of Kelly and
Burke and Shea could do justice to the
fidelity to Chifley of Beazley, Lemmon
and Burke, the young men from West-
ralia. The trouble is that they are so apt
to be too zealous. Burke, blithering for
the expropriation of the banks:
No future Government will have any
legal difficulty in repealing- the legislation.
Then came Calwell with his poultry-
farm illustration: “We are in process of
plucking the fowl, and not one feather
will be put back.”
Two items from the A.B.C. “news
service”;
Oct. 7, 11 p.m. “A third Supply Bill
will go before the Victorian Legislative
Council tomorrow. The Premier, Mr. Cain,
cannot ask the Governor for a dissolution
until this has been rejected try the Council.”
Actually there was no constitutional bar
to Cain’s asking for a dissolution after
the rejection of the first Supply Bill or
the second;
Oct. 8, 9 p.m. “The Victorian Premier,
Mr. Cain, will probably agree to a dis-
■ solution to enable public servants to be
paid tomorrow.”
Senator Amour (“L’Amour” in County
Clare) was the proud progenitor of this
“news service,” which is costing about
£20,000 a month. He swore by all the
archive# of the Bankstown Council that
it would “give both sides.”
While Dr. Evatt is “settling” the Pales-
tine quarrel, and preparing to attend
Princess Elizabeth’s wedding, maid-of-all-
work McKenna is overseering the draft-
ing of the bill to expropriate the trading
banks. It is a much stickier business than
the Attorney-General represented it to
be when he washed his hands of it and
packed his bugs for his sixjlh trip to the
U.S.A. McKenna says “New clauses are
continually being added as various points
arise.” Meanwhile McKenna’s own pet,
the bill fof a socialised medical service,
is held up,
Replyinjg to the British protest against
“the judicial murder” of Petrov, the Bul-
garian patriot and Peasant-party leader,
the “Government” of the ruffian Dmitrov
brazened it out, declaring that Petrov
had been “hanged for the common crimes
of espionage and treason.” Common
crimes they are, but if they were hanging
matters in the British Commonwealth and
the U.S.A. what a heap of Communists
would be missing from their haunts!
If Dedman’s Department of Post-War
Reconstruction is stuck for something to
do it might consider putting studs on
threepenny bits so that they’ll be easy to
pick up from glass-counters, and when
dropped on pavements. The man-hours
lost by people trying to retrieve thrip-
pences under present conditions, though
far below those lost by strikes and stop-
works, must be fairly substantial, and
a Dr. Coombs achievement such as
that suggested should not be lightly
scorned. So far the Department of Post-
War Reconstruction has reconstructed
nothing but the salaries of its bosses.
Current year’s estimates for the Depart-
ment of External Affairs run to salary and
office expenditure reckoned at £1,032,000;
up £276,000. For “building, works equip-
ment and furniture,” £177,600 is added.
For Eire, to which Australia doesn’t ex-
port a bale of wool and from which it
doesn’t receive a bag of potatoes or a
side of bacon, the estimate is £28,800.
A Mr. Dignam, a defeated “Labor” can-
didate, is the High Commissioner in Eire.
An Air Force officer, back from New
Guinea, is convinced that the place is
“more fantastic than Alice’s ‘Wonder-
land,’ ” since the Ward theories hit it.
He speaks of native “contractors” doing
such business at Lae, Moresby and
Wewak that they offer white men £l5 a
week to drive trucks; of war damages
paid to natives in such amounts that they
have more money than they know what
to do with; and of unions and rackets
among the natives, winding up with the
statement that though hundreds of Army
Disposals trucks. have been bought by
natives there is no petrol rationing. What
ought to be done is to make Ward go
to live in New Guinea.


WELL MET.
“The Comintern, alleged to have been abolished in 1943, has had another incarnation under another fancy name."
“Where have you been these four years, Joe?”
“Joe, I’ve never really been away!”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Jasby”: Why should those Sydney
corporation laborers object to being
called ratcatchers (B. 8/10/ ’47)? The
rabbiter doesn’t despise his name
and the blokes who catch fish
when Government regulations permit
them to ply their trade—see no shame
in the title fisherman. I’ve never heard
of a lion-tamer asking for a new form of
address. Snake-charmers, dog-fanciers,
pig-farmers, white-ant exterminators,
whalers and bullfighters seem quite
satisfied to acknowledge in their titles the
creatures of their choice. The rat being
an enemy of society, men whose lives are
dedicated to its extinction should be
proud to be styled ratcatchers. In the
nineteenth century, as John Bright (B.
8/10/’47) pointed out, the franchise was
extended to “a ratcatcher with two dogs.”
Meantime, in Brisbane one trade-unionist
has been suing another for calling him a
rat, the gentleman sued' pleading that rat
is a word frequently used in the industrial
movement and that the use of it in refer-
ence to a man does not necessarily in-
dicate enmity towards him.
* * * *
“L. de R.”; A modernist had his pic-
ture hung upside down at the Paris
Salon and it remained undetected in that
position until the end of the exhibition.
At a recent “contemporary” show in Mel-
bourne a painting catalogued. “Nude”
attracted much attention. The fact that
it comprised a couple of tin sheds, three
telegraph posts and a stretch of roadway
didn’t surprise the modernists. While
they were gathered round speculating on
the esoteric significance of the picture
the. manageress came along and pinned
up a notice stating that the title was a
printer’s error.
* * # sk
“Clooter”: When my Irish mother was
transplanted to Australia she' brought a
small quantity of visual and a large
quantity of invisible luggage. From the
latter she peopled the hills around Ade-
laide with leprechauns and banshees and
credited the “little people” with hanging
the glorious showers of clematis blossom
on the mallee in Victoria, Mother is
dust these many years and the brilliant
Australian sunshine and the hard Aus-
tralian ways have burned out of us all the
beliefs she transmitted. My niece,
a science graduate, is the best ex-
ample of this. She went to the
races and came home triumphantly
flourishing a fistful of notes. “Ha!” I
said, enviously. “This is the reward of
applying your science to a thing which
most people regard as a matter of
chance.” She flushed, made some flip-
pant reply and departed. “The grocer's
wife read the stars for her this morning,”
said my missus, “and told her the color
for her today was purple.” Yes, Murray
Stream won the Metrop. at 25 to 1, his
rider in a purple jacket.
• * # * *
“McGlum”: At Haisho we were
warned against eating wild fruits until
their edibility had been safely established
—a Dutch authority on tropical plants
had last say. Someone found a shrub
laden with an attractive nut-like fruit.
A tentative nibble, exclamations of rap-
ture and soon we were eating heartily and
filling pockets for the benefit of friends
back in camp. Then along came a party
of Chinese. Their howling and gesticulat-
ing conveyed the sad news that we were
heading for a big bellyache and a per-
manent sleep. There was a mad rush for
camp. In no time we were lined up out-
side the R.A.P. guzzling huge quantities
of salt water. Cheered on by an appreci-
ative audience we retched until exhaus-
tion came, and then, finding more
strength, forced down more emetic until
no further traces of unquotable fruit
were visible. The Dutch expert was un-
able to identify the fruit, and I’m still
wondering whether the Chows were
dinkum or merely protecting their pro-
perty. V
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”; Yes; the memory is
freakish. A man who came from Poland
27 years ago changed a name that
was something like Pcyshymski to Smith.
Recently a new arrival chased him along
Pitt-street excitedly calling “Pcyshymski!
Pcyshymski!” but not until a passing
stranger drew his attention to the pursuer
did he realise that the shouting was in-
tended for him. Turning, he was em-
braced by a man whom he had no diffi-
culty in recognising as an old school-
fellow in a town with a name as hard
to pronounce as his own ; but he assures
“He WILL have his little frolic!”
me that, having grown used during a
quarter of a century to being called and
to thinking of himself as Smith, he found
it very difficult to recognise his old name ;
though the new arrival often brings it
up, it always sounds unreal to him. He
found also that his memory of the pro-
nunciation of his old hometown was
entirely different from that of the recent
arrival from there.
♦ * * *
“Yair”: Breakfast-time in the ham-
burger. The undecided-looking cove
blinked uncertainly as the waitress sug-
gested “Steak and eggs, and toast?”
“Aw, no, just gimme the toast,” he said.
Then, as she moved away, he called after
her, “Aw, you can put a coupla eggs on
the toast, if y’ like.” Again she moved
away, and again he called after her,
“And a bit of steak on the side, please,
miss.”
* * * *
“Karrimba”; I know Aussies will bet
on anything, but I’ve struck a new one
lately. My bus-route runs past a large
motor-works with an elaborate entrance
gate, lawns and so on, reminding one of
baronial halls rather than a Workaday
factory. When the bus stops outside the
gate for the connie to punch the bundy,
passengers have full sight of a large
“positions vacant” notice. Two months
ago the offer was £5 10s. in one depart-
ment only. Last week it was £8 ss. in all
branches. Regulars on the bus bet on the
figure, nearest to the placarded wage col-
lecting the pool.
« * * *
“Squizz”: Wouldn’t be surprised if
there was an ex-p.-0.-w. of Stalag IVB
among the crowd which overwhelmed an
interjector at a bank-nationalisation pro-
test meeting in Sydney by drowning him
with applause. Ex-inmates of IVB recall
the Prussian unteroffizier Blondie, who
began a blitz on the crude shelves and
cupboards which the boys knocked
together to keep their tucker and personal
gear off the dank floors. Deciding that
this was against regulations Blondie began
smashing down the shelves with an axe.
He got away with it the first time. The
barrack commander’s protests only
spurred him on to greater efforts such as
kicking over the boys’ precious cans of
turnip-top “skilly.” Then one genius
cheered Blondie the next time he came
round on his blitz. The rest of the mob
enthusiastically took it up. Cheers, claps
and stamping of feet followed the Hun on
his destructive way. The unusual reaction
baffled his Prussian psychology so much
that after a few weeks of being greeted
with uproarious good humor and approval
he apparently decided he was bringing
too much light into the boys’ lives and
finally allowed the shelves—which had
obstinately reappeared every time they
were knocked down —to stay put.
« * * »
“Macnell”: That “revolutionary” pilot-
less flight of an American plane had
already in its essential features been per-
formed by a British electric brain a
hundred times. There are other out-
standing products of the British ingenuity
for which other nations received most of
the credit. The variable time-fuse, a
complex and beautifully-designed radio
set in a shell-fuse 2in. long, which bursts
the shell on approach to a target, was
invented by Britain. Although generally
accepted as American, the fuse was only
mass-produced there; I’ve fired a VT
fuse before the U.S. Navy knew what
they looked like. The radio-controlled
target plane was fifst used by the British
Navy. As early as 1935 in the Medi-
terranean we were blasting away with
single four-inchers and an archaic fire-
control table at a Tiger Moth whose cata-
pult-launching and open-sea landing were
perfectly controlled by buttons on
cruiser Australia’s bridge. Much pub-
licity was given to American flat-tops’
operations in the Pacific, but it was hardly
known outside official circles that the
systems of flight organisation, fighter
control, vectoring and even radio-tele-
phonic terms were adopted almost in their
entirety from the British Fleet Air Arm.
And, of course, the Royal Navy’s asdic
set the standard for anti-submarine war-
fare.
* * * *
“Zake”: We’re due for a prolonged,
period of rainy weather in Sydney any
time now, but the residents of our street
in an outer “bush” suburb aren’t worried
about it—not like we were last year.
Then, when we had 12 inches in three
days, the street was a quagmire. On the
third day of torrential rain someone
rang the council and complained that two
boys were breaking the council’s regula-
tions and refused to desist. Ten minutes
later the council’s car came to the end
of the street and stopped for the very
good reason that had it attempted to
venture along it it would have bogged
to the running-boards. The two occu-
pants got out and faced the sea of mud
on foot. Then they saw a neatly-painted
notice-board stuck in a pothole several
feet deep. It read: “Fishing Here
Strictly Forbidden. By Order, Shire
Clerk.” Two boys were standing in oil-
skins keenly watching the floats as they
held their rods. Our street is now nicely
macadamised.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: I see that the manager of
a cinema in England fainted and died as
a result of looking at one of his own
in which a sword is pushed
slowly into the body of Mirin Dajo, a
Dutch commercial artist who claims to
have studied Yogi with Indian fakirs.
One would expect cinema managers to be
tougher, considering the pabulum of
murders, shootings, Nazi atrocities,
Indian riots, famines, perverted Freudian
psychology and whatnot they expect their
patrons to swallow. I have seen a fair
amount of the Yogi business, from Singa-
pore firewalkers to Tamils who have
hooks on chains attached to a huge wheel
thrust into their flesh and are then
whirled round until they splay out like
the skirts of a ballet-dancer, but I have
never seen any which didn’t have a trick
in it somewhere. The Indian magician
who thrust his thin collaborator into a
basket once in Java and then drove a
sword through him in all directions only
impressed me when he said that, in return
for a bottle of whisky, he would make
his impaled friend walk in from the
garden. lam rather sorry that we de-
cided that the revelation wasn’t worth
the bottle.
* * * *
Eve”; There’s a big old home at
Pofts Point afflicted with “squatters.” I
am told they have some temporary agree-
ment with the council. This signed note
on the gate one morning last week had
a lovely touch of complacent permanency,
though; “Milkman. Please leave 26
pints daily.” ,
* * * ♦
“5G.R.”; The tall copper on duty at
the Melbourne Show bent down to answer
a question with a smile ; he did the same
with everybody and indicated the way
with a hairy hand, fore, after and side-
ways while leaning against the wind.
“Must /be a bit tiring?” I suggested.
“No,” he said, “it’s interesting. That
bloke with the bundle of photographs
under his arm is mad on goats; he tried
to sell me one. The undersized chap I
just spoke to wanted to know where he
could buy chocolate bunnies with cello-
phane on them. But I am afraid I was
short with one woman. She wanted to
know if the Taroona had arrived from
Launceston. I told her it hadn’t passed
this point so far.”
» * * *
“Oliver Filter”: War-time in Sydney,
and he was out on leave from a con-
valescent depot, wearing his A.I.F. uni-
form, except that his footwear consisted
of sandshoes instead of boots. He
accosted each Yank who came along
and never seemed to miss. " Curious,
I asked him how he was doing.
“Good enough, mate,” he said, and
ducked off after another American.
He made a .successful touch and returned,
apparently eager to talk. “She’s a good
lurk,” he told me. “You oughter be in
it—l’ve made a tenner today.” He was
off again to stop a Yank who was shunt-
ing a popsie into an eating-house. The
American, anxious to be rid of the
beggar, pulled out a handful of silver and
gave it to him without even listening to
the hard-luck story. The biter hardly had
the money in his pocket before he spotted
another victim and cut across the
street to intercept. He returned with,
“Blast, I got that so-and-so half an hour
ago. Reckon I’d better move up to
Market-street.” He did, and I can well
believe that he returned to camp that
night with at least £2O in his pocket.
* * * *
“Niloc”: “But, my dear,” said the lady
in the phone-box, “what she told me was
. . . blah, blah, blah . . ; and then I said
. . , blabber, blabber.” The man already
standing outside the box told me this had
been going on for quarter of an hour.
“I’ve gone through the usual manoeuvres,”
he said. “The rasping sigh, whistling, and
prolonged bouts of coughing. But they
don’t have any effect on her. She’s just
warming up.” As she blithered on
we agreed that her* case deserved
a duet, and while he gave a loud
oration on the long-winded I produced
tympanic effects by clicking my -pennies
together. We paused for a breather and
smiled as we heard her say “I’ll have to
go now, dear” —but she had forgotten
something and burst forth again. We let
her have another five minutes before
playing our trump. Knocking at the door,
the other man asked her if she would tell
him the ambulance phone number printed
in the box. She turned back to the mouth-
piece: “Well, I must go now —there’s
been an accident or something. I’ll see
you this afternoon.”
» * ♦ ♦
“Laetitia”: In mentioning Mrs. Beeton
“Lord Luvus” (B. 24/9/’47) treads on
what for me is hallowed culinary ground.
As a week-old benedict I found that the
partner of my Torres Strait Island joys
and sorrows had gained her cooking
knowledge in the rooms of a city
optometrist. Every batch of bread she
turned out became quite green when put
in the oven, despite faithful adherence
to recipes passed on to her by old hands.
After some months on tinned biscuits I
found a tattered copy of Mrs. B. As a
result of a recipe for yeast found therein
we ate bread on which I still fondly muse
when eating the doughy stuff delivered
by our suburban flour-spoiler. The yeast
was potent all right. One stilly night a
loud explosion drew me to the kitchen.
I found that the beer-bottle, stoppered
with a patent metal capsule, in which the
brew was left to ferment had exploded.
The kitchen was littered with glass and
the neck of the bottle, with capsule still
aflhxed, was driven firmly into an over-
head joist.
THE FRIENDS OF RUSSIA.
Where are they now, the band who based their
claim
To public notice on this sounding name,
The noisy brotherhood who deemed the Russ
Misunderstood and sore misjudged by us,
When everything pertaining to the nation
Should merit universal approbation?
With soapbox rhetoric, their point to stress,
And lucubrations in the daily press
Time was they made a devil of a row.
1 wonder what they think about it now.
Where are they now whose generous sympathy
Was lavished on the lords of Muscovy,
Who lauded all they could, and found as well
Excuses for the inexcusable,
And bade us with what seemed like virtuous
zeal
“Grapple them to our souls with hoops of
steel,”
Insisting that the Soviet was a State
All other lands should strive to emulate?
Where are they now? And faintly on the air
I seem to hear an echo answer Where?
These Friends of Russia! Is it that they’ve seen
Such amity as that can only mean
Black enmity and treachery foul and base
To all the old traditions of our race,
Honor and honesty, good faith as well,
Justice unsmirched and incorruptible,
Loathing of tyranny so bare and bleak
Using a giant’s strength to crush the weak,
And all that we can hope from war’s surcease,
Mercy and truth and righteousness and peace?
Where are they now, these self-styled Rus-
sophils?
Gone, like the winter’s snow upon the hills.
One doubts they’ve even bothered to supply
A balance-sheet to be remembered by,
The which, if they should manage to present,
Might prove an interesting document.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Bo”: I switched on the radio just in
time to hear the announcer’s final words:
“ —from Oigan an’ Oigan.” A rather
peculiar name, I thought. Then I was
puzzled, for surely it should have been
Oigan Bros. —only a firm of solicitors,
who wouldn’t be advertising anyway,
would use the names in that fashion,
though in such a case they probably
wouldn’t start in partnership until there
were enough legal Oigans available to
make it the mom impressive Oigan,
Oigan and Oigan. Then the record
started scratching, and I recognised the
music: excerpts from Tchaikowsky’s
opera “Eugene Onegin.”
*** ' *
“Philp”: One of the most successful
experiments I saw in providing liquor
facilities for the troops (B. 8/10/’47) was
the establishment of an airmen’s mess at
Learmont (W.A.) in Exmouth Gulf
(where Bluey Truscott went in). On most
isolated units, of course, o.rs. generally
received a grog issue of one or two bottles
a week, but the Learmont arrangement
was better than that. A bar was built
in the recreation-room and was open for
an hour before the evening meal and for
an hour or more afterwards; bottled
beer was sold by the glass, and the men
were able to sit in comfort and enjoy a
noggin or two before and after dinner.
The innovation changed the recreation-
room from the usual dull hole of old
papers, quoits and chequers to some-
thing more like an officers’ mess. Profits
made from the bar were used to “turn
it on” once a month. If there’s another
war coming up, the idea might well be
extended throughout the services—it goes
a long way towards removing the o.rs.’
deep-rooted grouch against officers and
their “privileges.”
* * * *
“Smouge”: Spectacular hair-dos (B.
24/9/’47)? I was paying the Navy's
penalty for crime in a British Army
detention barracks. Well thatched and
with 6iri. of carefully-nurtured chinweed I
confronted the sergeant at the entrance
“One of you blokes asked me to wake him at four-thirty .”
gates. He looked me over for a moment,
noted the profusion of hair, then roared:
“It’ll have to come off \ any objections?”
I had, but they remained discreetly un-
voiced. The sarge produced a pair of
blunt hair-clippers, sat me on a nearby
bex and there and then—and weekly
thereafter —1 was shorn, with two con-
cessions. A small crest of hair was per-
mitted to remain “to distinguish me from
a rdal convict.” And towards the end of
my sojourn the last weekly operation was
omitted—“to give you a flying start,” the
sarge explained.
* * * *
“Staff Sarge”: Although Corporal
Blue’s name appeared on the nominal
roll of our i.t.b., tew of us ever saw him.
Blue had an uncanny knack of getting
himself sent to some school or course
while his fellow n.c.os. carried the burden
of regimental duties. He had done a
n.c.os.’ school and a course for p.t. in-
structors before he landed a job in the
orderly-room. He was no sooner there
than he was sent off on a clerical course.
Back with the unit he dug himself in
the Q store, then went away to a Q
school, then to an ordnance-training depot.
There he spent a period doing part-time
studies with a city engineering firm,
attending a motor-transport school and
attending another course for n.c.os.
From ordnance he drifted into the
A.A.S.C., where he took a course in
hygiene and worked another spell at a
Q school. I lost track of Blue for months,
hut ran into him one day at Liverpool
camp. A corporal with the pioneers, he
was learning to be a cook. Afterwards
he was sent to New Guinea, but. he got
no further than Port Moresby, where he
jumped from one unit to another and
took as many courses in his stride as he
could. The last time I saw him was at
Glenfield (N.S.W.). He had gained his
third stripe, was a unit-education n.c.o.
and attending an A.E.S. school. “When
this is finished,” he confided to me, “I
think I’ll take up learning Japanese. I
reckon that ought to carry a bloke
through until the war ends.”
* * * *
“Yair”: Yet another way to get a
shiner: In the early hours of one morn-
ing I tried to pull the top blanket up. I
gripped the edge and heaved, but it was
tucked in so tightly my fist flew back off
the blanket and crashed squarely into
my right eye. It’s very awkward.
People grin if you say “Bumped into a
door,” but they positively roar when you
mutter, “Aw, I was pulling up a blanket.”
* * * ♦
“Becks”: In' a streamlined age most
forms of greeting or salutation have lost
through compression most of their
original meaning and now convey little
more —possibly less —than a nod or a
gesture. “Give you good day,” or earlier
still, “May God give you a good day”
was a form of benediction ; “Good day”
—or more often “G’day” or just “Day”
—is a mere acknowledgment of your
existence. I have no doubt that after a
year or so of the Nazi regime the formal
“Heil Hitler” became just as meaningless
to millions who used it. These remarks
are prompted by a conversation I over-
heard recently. Two friends were dis-
cussing an acquaintance known to me —
a notorious bore. “Well,” said one, “he’s
the type of fellow who, if you say ‘How
are you?’ thinks you really want to
know.”
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: The Sydney Show-
man in reviewing Max Alford’s “Awake
My Love” (B. 24/9/’47) mentioned a
fictitious love affair between Adelaide’s
founder, Colonel Light, and Linda Man-
ners. I once climbed Light’s statue, when
it stood in Victoria Square, to see if the
sculptor had shown any traces in the
colonel’s lineaments of another love affair,
still surrounded with mystery, which
occurred between his father and a Portu-
guese-Eurasian damosel named Resells.
The story is contained in the ancient
archives of Penang, where there is also
current a pantun, “Kapitan Light men-
jadi rajah.” It records how the captain,
then a clerk in the employ of the East
India Company, practically alone and un-
aided made the island into a great free
port and a refuge for all the oppressed
minorities of the neighboring peninsula
and islands, meeting in the process official
opposition, as his son did later in Ade-
"Oh, George, I’ve another surprise for you —the washing machine's
busted again!"
laide. Very little is known of Resells
except that she was born in Malacca and
was wealthy, but mixed marriages in
days were looked on with the same
disapproving eye as they are now, and
the affair would have been sufficient for
John Company to break Light, as it did,
although he had presented it with a bit of
empire. It is rather curious how the son
repeated his father’s .history and got the
same treatment. There’s good material
for a play along those lines about the
Founder of Adelaide.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: The most recurrent of
all lines in film dialogue (B. 8/10/’47)
are, I think, the question “Are you really
serious?” or “Surely you’re not serious?”
and the inevitable reply, “I was never
more serious in my life.” I’ve seen most
of the films “released” in Australia over
the last 10 years, and I think I’ve heard
practically every Hollywood “star” use
those lines. And that includes Donald
Duck.
* * * *
“Melbn”: A silver net purse at the
Loan Exhibition of antique silver at the
Melbourne Town Hall nearly caused a
rumpus. It is a legend in the family
which owns the relic that it had been
given to Mary Seton by Mary Queen
of Scots. There was some con-
sternation when an expert discovered
a hallmark of 1624 —Mary lost her
head at Fotheringhay in 1587. Happi-
ness was restored when another ex-
pert found another hallmark, which,
although no date could be accurately
given it, was obviously older. It was
pointed out that silver was often sent
back to the smiths for repairs and reno-
vations and fresh hallmarks engraved
upon them. My criticism of the exhibi-
tion is that none of it looks antique—
most of it looks as if it had just been
bought from local silversmiths. In every
case the patina of time which gives works
of art half their beauty has been carefully
polished off.
* * * *
“Ebor”: When a motorist gashes a
tyre on a broken bottle on the roadway
he is loud in denunciation of the nitwit
who left it there. But he seldom displays
the commonsense and conception of citi-
zenship shown by a 10-year-old youngster
in a North Coast (N.S.W.) town the other
day. After a stream of car-drivers had
turned aside to avoid a patch of broken
glass the boy got off his bicycle and swept
the road clear of the danger.
* * * *
“Weff”: He was zig-zagging along
Hickson-road on the Darling Harbor
(Sydney) waterfront when he hailed me.
“Ah, mate,” he cried, swaying from side
to side, “can tha’ tell us the way to the
Bootle Arms?” “The Bootle Arms?” I
answered, keeping well away from him,
“I’ve never heard of it.” He drew nearer.
“Oh, tha’ hasn’t, has tha’?” he said.
“Well, what aboot Larry Gynane’s poob
—the Royal Alhambra?” I took a few
steps backward. “I don’t know it, either,”
I replied. He looked puzzled and slightly
angry. “You don’t, eh?” he yelled,
advancing towards me. “Well, tha’ll be
telling me tha’ don’t know Pat Kelly’s
St. Winifred’s or Jack Price at the Wel-
lington?” “All new ’uns to me, mate,”
I said, still edging away. He made a
sudden lurch, and grasped me by the
sleeve. “Tha’ knaows nowt! ” he shouted.
“What sort o’ goon are tha’? Tha’ll be
telling me tha’ don’t knaow Rimrose-
road or King Edward-street. Or Great
Howard-street, or the Brocklebank or the
Canada Dock.” “Where do you think we
are?” I asked. “Where are we?” he
thundered in a voice that startled into
flight the pigeons pecking at grains of
wheat in the roadway. “Where are we?
In blanky Liverpool, in good old blanky
Lancashire, the best old town in the
blanky world, tha’ blanky fule!”
♦ * * *
“Penelope’s Mate”: A young Australian
officer who had spent several unfortunate
years on Ambon as a compulsory guest
of Nippon was sent to Tokio to give
evidence against the beasts who had
bashed, starved and murdered his mates.
His greatest disappointment was that
some of the worst offenders had not been
traced. With considerable satisfaction
the Australian saw justice meted out to
wretches who trembled to see a former
victim facing them from a position of
authority, honor and judgment. The job
done, he was sightseeing in Yokohama
when a cocky Jap in semi-civilian attire
strutted by in the old manner. The Aus-
tralian caught a glimpse of sullen pock-
marked features, and in a flash recognition
came. The ex-basher suddenly felt a
strong hand on his sagging shoulders and
swung around to look into a face he
should have remembered. Justice took
over then, and by now one of Ambon’s
worst criminals has probably gone to
join his ancestors,
* * * *
“K.”: That par. in Dragnet Digest
(B. 1/10/’47) about the “amazing” pro-
portions which the industry of lobbying
has reached in Washington recalls that
shortly before Hitler’s war broke out
the Louisiana Legislature passed a bill to
provide that lobbyists should be required
to wear a uniform or to pay out of the
emoluments they receive a fee to a
Senators’ fund. The uniform specified
included gaudy plaid trousers and a green
skull-cap. The fee payable is the half of
any receipts in excess of 10 dollars a
day. An unsuccessful Senate amendment
sought to compel each lobbyist to pay
a further fee of 1000 dollars to a “fund
for the entertainment of Senators” from
which Senators would have the right to
draw up to 100 dollars daily.
*** * •
“Alexander”: With Christmas shopping
approaching its peak, I knew better than
to venture forth in the lunch hour, but
I had no choice. My wife had got wind
of a shipment of nylons, so there I was
tangled up in a mass of fighting females
in an exclusive ragshop. I wasn’t in the
race —it was all over in a few minutes.
As I walked laboriously back to my
office, trying vainly to recover my respect
for the so-called weaker sex, I was
attracted by a large throng struggling to
get into a shop alcove. With the vision
of nylons driving me forward I joined in
the mill. Pushing, fighting, cursing and
being cursed I eventually reached the
goal. There, staring straight at me out
of the display window with what ap-
peared to be a satirical grin were the
wedding photos of an over-publicised
jockey and his bride. And my wife
wonders why I snarl when she mentions
nylons!
OUR BAFFLED ARCHERS.
“A proposed expedition against kangaroos by
Sydney archery enthusiasts, equipped with the latest
in bows and arrows, was vetoed by the police, who
pointed out that the open season had closed.”
The coppers queered their pitch, which seems
And Sternly warned them, doubtless for their
good,
Not to attempt to leave the crowded city
And chase the bounding Too through weald
and wood
Armed and accoutred like those bold banditti
Who flourished in the days of Robin Hood
And Friar Tuck and other chaps we know
Who did their stuff in Sherwood long ago.
They aimed to introduce a retrospective
And jald-world flavor into modern sport,
Using marsupials as their objective
For long outmoded weapons of the sort
Our warlike ancestors found so effective
Alike at Crfccy and at Agincourt,
The storm of deadly shafts they learned to loose
To win the day and cook the Frenchmen’s
goose.
One features them with sedulous attention
Bestowed upon their bows and arrows, too,
Crusaders of the archery convention
Enrolled for making targets of the Too.
Their bows of course —it hardly merits mention —
Pieces of immemorial English yew,
The tree that grows the only dinkum oil
For suchlike gadgets, teste Conan Doyle.
Pity their enterprise was deemed nefarious.
Think what a priceless snap it would have
been,
A picture of the local Sagittarius
Bow in his hand, arrayed in Lincoln green,
Emerging in triumphant and hilarious
Mood with his trophy from some sylvan scene
And heading homeward with a cheerful whoop
To get the tail converted into soup!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


STORY
THE
F
ENDURANCE * ,
At the 1924 Olympic
Games, Paavo Nurmi of
Finland dominated four
events, each of which set
a new Olympic record!
He won the 1500 and
5000 metres events within
an hour of each other!
In the 10,000 metres
cross-country race, held
in very hot weather,
only 15 of 39 starters
finished. A few stag-
gered and fell, several
suffered sunstroke, and
one runner, in a daze,
ran into a brick wall.
Nurmi came in two min-
utes ahead of the field,
breathing easily, as
though he hadn’t been in <****<*
the event.
&
I
w
YOU MUST HAVE TO
BE AN OLYMPIC GAMES CHAMPION!
£nc(cOt-cutcje is built into Olympic Tyres by
skilled Australians, using the finest raw materials
in Australia's most modern tyre plant.
Olumpit
TYRES
100% AUSTRALIAN
AND CHAMPIONS
OF THE ROAD!
A product of the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. Ltd.
IN AUSTRALIAN SKIES
:■
m
m
gwaii
Kfis
mmwm
m
wm
I ■ V,:
m
m?
m
nitf
: s a
£sS ■ :
Setting a new world standard in perform-
ance and dependability—combining
highest speeds, longest range, biggest load
carrying capacity, greatest rate of climb
and “over the weather” flying at normal
altitude comfort—the new Constellation
will soon be introduced on the Sydney-
London “Kangaroo” Service.
fl*f*A and
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS IN ASSOCIATION WITH
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
Missing Friend.
TO ADA NELLIE HOOK (nee SHEED), last heard
of in Melbourne, married to Walter John Hook, late
of Aitape, in the Territory of New Guinea. Please
communicate with the Curator of Intestate Estates
of the Territory of New Guinea, administrator of the
estate of the abovenamed Walter John Hook, de-
ceased. ANY PERSON having knowledge of the
whereabouts or of the death or divorce of the said
Ada Nellie Hook is requested to advise the under-
signed.—G. T. WEJjLS, Curator of Intestate Estates.
Port Moresby, 3rd October, 1947,
THE SERVICE MAN
The "New" Comintern.
“Ek Bum”: Those who have been
studying the World Communist Move-
ment and preaching its dangers for many
years have cause to feel cynical at scared
newspaper reactions to the “new” Com l
munist Information Bureau in the
Balkans. Some of the papers which are
now yelling their heads off held Com-
mumsts in their laps three or four years
, . ~ ,
As has been said here, there never has
been a Comintern save as an adjunct to
the Soviet Union Foreign Office. The
majority of the executive of the Comin-
tern has always consisted of Soviet Union
Commissars. The minority included
Sharkey, of the “Australian” party. The
duty of this minority has been to see that
the orders of the Russian majority were
earned out m their own countries. These
people are overseers of the Kremlin,
"Mate says if you'll call off y'r sit-down strike you can join the
rummy school!”
pledged to enforce Rule 10 under the
“Australian” party constitution, which
said:
The Communist party of Australia is
affiliated to the Communist International
and participates in international congresses,
together with the Communist parties of
other lands. Resolutions and decisions of
international congresses shall be considered
and acted upon by the supreme authority
of the Communist party in Australia, the
National Congress, or between congresses,
by the Central Committee.
This rule was not formally annulled
when the Comintern allegedly retired to
its grave in 1942. An interim set of rules
was brought into force until after the
war.
Not the Comintern
The Information Bureau which has
been established in the Balkans is not
the Comintern. The Comintern has been
operating at full blast under cover all
the time, and so soon as peace came its
agents—that is, the agents of the Soviet
Union Foreign Office —returned to their
normal habitats and went on with their
labors.
Two years ago it was written in these
columns that Russia was actually at war
with the Western Powers. The truth of
this has been proved more strongly every
day. All that is happening is that a new
phase of the war is developing. In this
phase an advance is to be made against
the Middle East and Western Europe.
The Kremlin has produced one set of
effects which it has all along openly and
brazenly tpld a stupid and unbelieving
world that it intended to produce. It
plainly advocated in its manifestoes the
destruction of Britain’s colonial empire.
In this it has had startling success.
Australia? Anybody who saw its Par-
liament could scarcely recognise it as a
British deliberative assembly. It is a
shouting, raucous Soviet, in which
the dominant majority does what it
wishes. Members of the Caucus —
Ministers included—derive their quali-
fication as members of the “Labor” party,
and thus their right to represent “Labor”
in Parliament, from the tickets of unions
whose secretaries are Communists,♦even
members of the Central Committee of the’
Communist party.
Removing the Obstacles
The Kremlin has produced chaos in
the Balkans and in Asia. It has a large
trained army in China and another,
nearly trained, in Korea. And it has had
its way in Germany heedless of its 1939-
41 alliance with that country. The fate
which befel Germany and Japan was, of
course, generated by their own abomin-
able conduct, but an instigator and
abettor of that conduct was in each, case
Stalin. History is the witness.
Russia, casting aside the proffered
agreement with Britain, made a treaty
with Germany in 1939, having first made
elaborate plans to safeguard the world
Communist party. Within a matter of
weeks, Germany and the Western Powers
were at war.
Matsuoka went to Moscow. Within
next to no time Japan had also turned
aggressor against the Western Powers.
From earlier events it might be possible
to deduce a similar course of events lead-
ing to the outbreak of the Japanese-
Chinese war, which Russia, in any case,
could have stopped in 10 minutes if the
Kremlin’s own account of its strength
and influence in the Siberian region had
had any claim to validity,
Japan and Germany out of the way
and Britain and France reduced to skin
and bone in the process of achieving
Moscow’s primary objectives, the process
of cleaning them up in turn is now be-
ginning.
Since 1941, of course, their policies
have been entirely dictated by the neces-
sity of not offending Russia. There was
no belief in diplomatic circles that Russia
would ultimately form part of the Western
world, living in complete amity with
“capitalist countries.”
Plenty of documents are already avail-
able to make it certain that the guiding
factor of the policy of Mr. Churchill and
Mr. Roosevelt was the knowledge that
they were dealing with a double-crosser,
who was ready to make peace with Ger-
many at any moment if he did not get
his way.
Another factor was that, with the help
of an enormous red-ant organisation in
the “Labor” movements of all free coun-
tries, Stalin had succeeded in capturing


Divorce Notices.
IN THE " SUPREME COURT OPIIEW SOUTH
WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in Matrimonial
Causes.
TO JAMES DOUGLAS—TAKE NOTICE that ANNIE
DRAIN DOUGLAS has pursuant to Part 111 of the
Matrimonial Causes Act (Federal) 1945 filed her
Petition for Divorce No. 1995 of 1947 on the grounds
of Desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 19th of December
1947 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from WILLIAM LANDER, Solicitor, 79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney— (1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LAWRENCE SMALLEY formerly of Palmerston
North New Zealand but late of Tamworth N.S.W.—
TAKE NOTICE that HARRIETT JOYCE SMALLEY
has filed a petition for divorce No. 3611 of 1947
on the ground of your desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in tlje
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Ist December 1947 and may obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from ALEXANDER
J. P. ROPE, Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO LORNE MARGARET JACKSON formerly Lome
Margaret Little.—TAKE NOTICE that WALLACE
MALCOLM JACKSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2769 of 1947 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 18th day of December 1947 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from J. R.
THOMAS, Solicitor, of 39 Martin Place, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Deputy Registrar.
LN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO the Respondent ALEXANDER THOMAS HAZEL
late of 2/17th Australian Infantry Battalion, A.I.F.
Regimental No. NX2I444.—TAKE NOTICE that the
said JESSIE MAYDAY HAZEL has commenced a suit
No. 3277 of 1947 against you in this Court for divorce
on the grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the 23rd day of December next and in the
event of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner wil pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to the under-
mentioned Solicitors free of charge. Dated the second
day of October, 1947. —For the Registrar, C. K.
BODY, Clerk in Divorce. N. J. BELL, PHILLIPS
& CADOGAN, Solicitors for the Petitioner, 117
Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE DOMINICK WOODS late of Woollahra
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that JEAN ELIZABETH WOODS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3122 of 1947 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and she is asking the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) A If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 17th day
of November 1947 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from R. W. FRASER & PARKINSON,
Solicitors, 51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.;—(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
m
> i
, f -
ANY COUNTRY HOME CAN
HAVE A CITY KITCHEN
The AGA Cooker brings all the comforts and conven-
iences of city cooking to country homes, Modern
appearance; sparkling "easy-clean" baked enamel
finish; special insulation—keeps kitchens cool—delicious
cooking by scientific stored heat in roomy ovens and
the convenience of having the AGA operating con-
tinuously at no extra cost.
Economical, too! Country owners have proved that fuel
costs are less than cost of wood even when drawn
from their own properties. Every AGA is British made
and carries a double guarantee.
1. It is guaranteed not to burn more than an amazingly
smnll specified quantity of fuel per annum,
2. It Is guaranteed against faulty material or workman-
ship for ten (10) years.
If unable to see the AGA in operation in our showroom
write for catalogue—showing the complete range of
models.
AG
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney.
432 Bourke St.. Melbourne.
Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert
Sts., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G.
Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloeh
Bros. Ltd.. Perth.
(I
0
aa sSSffITHE33 J .
4b
m
555
«(t, ciGfc** 1 tS
m
«OD-V47 '
public opinion. Succeeded, that is in
nrnnaeatiuE the idea that Russia was the
Te P Se oVthe white world and that it
was doing all the fighting.
This impression was achieved by means
of an iron censorship at the Russian end,
combined with a vast system for the
dissemination of lies so base and tre-
mendous that they carried conviction to
dull minds by sheer weight of their own
falsity.
“Operation Soft Underbelly
One of the features of Churchillian
strategy w as based on the necessity of
attacking “the soft underbelly of Europe.
But it turned out that the softest part of
the “soft underbelly” could not be
attacked because the Russians required
that it should be reserved for their per-
sonal conquest. It was even softer to
Communist penetration than to external
military attack. Thus the war was prob-
ably lengthened a year or two. An attack
on the /Egean region would have been
easier than an attack on Italy.
Timed with an assault on Italy this
offensive that never happened would
have caused the Germans considerable
reason for concern. It would have opened
the Dardanelles, brought about a sea
junction with the Russians and generally
played merry hell with Germany s
eastern plans.
The Russians, however, needed the
Balkans lor the plans which they have
now put Into operation. They needed a
method of progress under which each
successive step would lead to the instal-
lation of a new Comintern official in the
headship of Government of each freshly-
conquered country as they moved West-
ward.
General Bor and Others
When Russian troops had a chance to
junction with the gallant forces of
General Bor in Warsaw, the Red Army
Command drew back and brutally allowed
these heroic Poles to be wiped out, be-
cause General Bor was merely a patriot.
Once in Warsaw they installed a Com-
munist-dominated regime, the heads of
which were not all Poles,
In Yugoslavia, they tricked the Western
Powers into installing a Red Army
Genera], “Marshal,Tito,” who apparently
does not dare to trade under his own
name, as hero-dictator.
It then became almost as much as an
Australian journalist’s job was worth to
question the repeated assertions that this
ruffian and his Red rabble were holding
at bay “more German divisions” than
were the Allied armies in Italy.
When the psychological moment came,
the real patriots of Yugoslavia, deserted
by their allies, were caught and murdered
by “people’s courts” — i.e., Communist
ruffians —for the crime of opposing a
foreign Communist dictatorship which it-
self had sided with and worked for Hitler
at the period of Britain’s greatest peril.
Bulgaria, a brutal aggressor country,
became the real capital and favorite
Russophile centre of the Balkans, dictated
to by two former general secretaries of
the Comintern —Dmitrov and Kolarow.
From both of these criminals the Aus-
tralian Communist party had accepted
orders for years.
It can be taken for granted that spe
of these murderers is Governor-General
of the whole of the nine conquered
nations behind the Iron Curtain.
In Bulgaria, the Opposition was wiped
out by these bloodstained wretches.
Those particularly susceptible to destruc-
tion were the Bulgarians led by Petkov,
who had supported the Western allies to
the hilt from the beginning, during the
period when his country was fighting
alongside the Germans.
It is in Bulgaria, as everywhere in the
Russian zone, a greater treason to have
been on the side of the Western Allies
than to have been on Germany’s side.
And Hungary is in the hands of the
Comintern. One of its officials, Rakosi,
who admitted the Australian Communist
party to the Kremlin brotherhood, is its
governor. Eastern Germany has become
a Russian province with an organisation
which makes the permanence of its
status clear.
Albania has been Communised by
cheeky ruffians whom Moscow aided and
abetted when they murdered the crews
of British destroyers. Greece and Tur-
key are under direct threat.
Freedom Comes to Vienna
The Vienna papers are full of the
stories of Russian kidnappings of young
Austrians who are unfriendly to Com-
munism. They are never heard of again.
This is from “Weltpresse,” the British
Occupation Zone official journal, July 5:
On June 4 R. Nosobad, a Polish student,
was pushed into a car by uniformed men
and never seen again. Simultaneously a
16-year-old student, J. Schlossnickel, was
taken away by two men in grey-green uni-
forms assisted by a civilian. The student
was pushed into a car marked E 21.460.
Bystanders, who wanted to assist on account
of the screams of the protesting boy, were
covered by a pistol by one of the uni-
formed men. Another bystander ran to
the Russian post for help. A soldier came
immediately and because the car would not
start was able to order the civilian driver
at pistol point to stop. The soldier, how-
ever, had to obtain assistance and, in tne
meantime, the car was started and driven
away. ,
On June 22 a woman was seized, covered
with a rug arid spirited away. Ihe Aus-
trian authorities were unable to find her.
There were seven further cases in June
and July, including that of Sequard, a clerk
in the Austrian Ministry of Commerce who
was ordered to report at the Russian H.O.
The Austrian Minister for the Interior
declared that he was powerless to act
once any Austrian has entered vehicles
of any of the occupation forces.
The British and Americans occasionally
have got wind of impending Russian kid-
nappings and have intervened with an
armed guard.
But it is obvious that Austria is now
marked down for slaughter. Even the
Czechs, who have made their own bed,
joining with the Russians in destroying
political elements of Slovakia whose
operations were purely patriotic and not
allied to Germany, are having reason to
regret that they did not throw in their
lot wholeheartedly with the Western
Powers instead of selling out to Moscow’-
Western Europe is in for grim years.;
Russia is bent upon war, and world war
at that. And, as usual with such enemies,
Russian intentions are being taken too
lightly.
The picture has become blacker in
India with the increasing wave of
murders and the increasingly marked in-
ability of the two Governments to control
the disorder. A sign of the times was an
Indian C.O.S.’s appeal to soldiers to kill a
few rioters so as to save the large numbers
of their victims. The move for independ-
ence in Kashmir —Nehru’s own home
territory—and the growing reluctance
of the more powerful native princes, led
by the Nizam, is adding to the disorder
which may culminate in the break-up of
the Hindustan peninsula into a boiling of
rajs, nawaubates and sultanates, all
appealing to Britain to come and restore
the law and feed their people. Famine
will undoubtedly stalk the land on an
enormous scale if the present chaos con-
tinues and spreads, and the Moslemf
north-west will certainly feel the impact
of the troubles in Palestine. Arab war
against the Jews, if it begins, will be pur-
sued as a jehad by all the Moslem States,
and the unfortunate Hebrews will live to
curse the name of the murder advocate
Ben Hecht and those New York sup-
porters who have egged them on. They,
too, will probably soon be yelling to
John Bull to protect their proteges.


1947
■
* r
m
I
mm
Ik ?
s|:«
m
Mi
■'•»
*
PERSONAL ITEMS
Speaker George Knox, who refused to
step down from the Chair to help the Op-
position defeat the Cain Government, is a
soldier and a farmer as well as a poli-
tician and the son of a politician. He
commanded the 23rd Battalion at the
Landing, at Lone Pine and the Evacua-
tion, served in Egypt, Sinai and France,
was sent on special service overseas in
1919 and was C.O. sth Battalion Victorian
Scottish, becoming when the new war
broke out an A.M.F. commander.
He farms at Kent Park, Lower Ferntree
Gully, and was chairman of the Dairying
Commission of 1929. Politically he
entered the State House in 1927 as M.L.A.
for Scoresby and Upper Yarra, and was
secretary to the Cabinet under the Mc-
Phersons. Bora in 1885 in Melbourne,
Knox was educated at Scotch College. As
Speaker he draws £1250. In England he
would get £5OOO and a mansion,' plus a
peerage and a pension of £4OOO on retire-
ment to ensure that party politics no
longer interested him. He was knighted
two years ago.
Appointed Fourth Naval Member of
the Commonwealth Naval Board, Com-
modore Edmund Walter Anstice came to
Australia last year. His career in the
Royal Navy has been one of hard work,
with plenty of fighting and responsibility.
In the First World War he served on
London, Renown and Achates, seeing
action in the Dardanelles and the
Atlantic. After a short period polish-
ing an Admiralty seat at the start
of the recent strife he gained his dearest
wish —command of a carrier. A born
leader, he wop the respect of his crew
when fighting the Germans from H.M.S.
Fencer in the Atlantic. But the R.N.
knew it had a good man and brought
him back to Britain, where he held train-
ing appointments until he left for Aus-
tralia.
General Sir lan Hamilton, G.C.8.,
G.C.M.G., D. 5.0., dead last Sunday at
94, spent a long lifetime as a soldier. He
lived through the golden age of Queen
Victoria’s Army, when service in India
could be counted upon to provide those
minor wars in which young officers
earned rapid promotion. He was a
protege of Lord Kitchener, chief of staff
in the Boer War to that great man of his
time, and to that owed chiefly his appoint-
ment to command the Dardanelles expedi-
tion in 1915. In the history of modern
war he will be remembered as much for
his pen as for his generalship, and his
Staff Officers’ Scrapbook, written after
his service as Military Representative of
the Indian Army with the Japanese in
Manchuria in 1904-05, earned him a high
military reputation ; it suffered irrecover-
ably after the disastrous failure of the
Suvla Bay landing in August, 1915. lan
Hamilton did great work after World
War I as president in Scotland of the
British Legion.
D. H. C. Duplessis, inspecting the
W.A. Government railways with fellow
Royal Commissioner A. J. Gibson, has
spent 32 of his 49 years in the service
of the South African railways. Among
other jobs he has managed the trains of
the Orange Free State and the Western
Transvaal, and since 1945 he has been
Chief Harbor, Shipping and Development
Manager in the Union. Last year he went
abroad in charge of a mission which
studied transport developments in Britain,
U.S.A., Canada and the Argentine, and a
few years ago he was secretary of a com-
mission which conducted an inquiry into
the South African railways similar to
the one he and Gibson were com-
missioned to carry out in the West. »
Brisbane had a visit from an interesting
seadog recently—Albert Toft, skipper of
the Norwegian motorship Talabot; at
sea 37 years, master for 16 years. In
1942 Toft took a vessel* loaded with
petrol and ammunition to Malta. The
Jerries hit her, and there was a danger
that she might blow up and wreck ’the
whole harbor. Toft successfully scuttled
her and averted the disaster. For this
act he was awarded an 0.8. E. Talabot is
a 10,000-tonner built a year ago as a
first instalment towards replacing Nor-
way’s war-time shipping losses.
George Spencer Whiteman, of Young
(N.S.W.), passed the 100th milestone
going strong on 3/10/’47. A native of
Camden, he went to Young over 60 years
ago and ran a general store, from which
he retired 40 years ago. An alderman
and seven times Mayor of Young, he was
coroner until he was 90 and is still sec-
retary of the council of the F. and S.
Association.
A Tasmanian who will watch the pro-
gress of the Bank Expropriation Bill with
more than academic interest is Frederick
Arthur Marriott, M.H.A. for Bass, drawn
here by Morrissey. He was on the staff
of Union Bank for 17 years, resigning
after his return from the war to enter
POLITICS.
business on his own account. Born at
Elliott (Tas.) in 1910, he joined the A.I.F.
and served with the 2/3 M.G. Battalion
in the Syrian and Wewak campaigns;
malaria, a legacy of the second show, kept
him in a hospital bed on election day
last year, but he won the seat his father
had held in the previous Parliament
Marriott senior, blinded in action in
France in 1917, sat in the Tasmanian
Assembly for nearly 25 years, first as
member for Darwin, later for Bass.
India at present is a land of headaches
and heartaches and General Frank
Messervy, C.-in-C. of the Pakistan Army,
must be coming in for his share of both.
He has seen plenty of war since he joined
Hodson’s Horse as a lieutenant in 1914.
In World War I he fought in France,
Palestine and Syria and in 1919 took part
in a dust-up in Kurdistan. When World
War II broke out he was a colonel
in the Indian Army. He led the Gazelle
Force in the Sudan and Eritrea in 1940-41
and an Indian brigade at Cheren before
going to the Western Desert, where he
commanded in turn the 4th Indian Divi-
sion, the Ist Armored Division and the
7th Armored Division, and became
Deputy-Chief of the General Staff, M.E.
Forces. In Burma he again led an Indian
division —in Arakan and at Kohima, and
in the final victory took the 4th Corps
from Tamu to Rangoon. After the sur-
render he was for a while C.-in-C. in
Malaya, and before the dissection of
India he was G.0.C.-in-Chief, Northern
India.
“Feng-shui” on a seer and her pro-
tege :
I never met Annie Besant, whose centenary
Australian theosophists are celebrating this
month, but I met her strangest creation,
Krishnamurti, on several occasions. Mrs.
Besant was a remarkable woman, brilliant,
cultured and extraordinarily determined. After
her separation from the Rev. Frank Besant,
whom she married at 20, she joined forces with
Charles Bradlaugh and preached birth control
to a horrified mid-Victorian England. Then
she joined the Theosophical Society, went to
India, became a thorn in the side of British
officialdom, tried, like Gandhi, to revive village
crafts and served a term in prison for her
part in the nationalist movement. Then she
discovered in a shy young Indian youth, the
son of a minor official, the avatar of all the
great teachers, educated him in the belief that he
was the new Messiah and presented him to an
astonished cosmos as the destroyer of the old
world and the forerunner of a new one. 1
met Krishnamurti in Sydney when he had
already become a world figure. Temples had
been erected in expectation of his advent in
various countries; there was one at Balmoral,
in Sydney Harbor, with a star on the platform
on which the new teacher was to alight and
an auditorium in the Greek style whose seats
had been reserved, at prices up to 100 guineas,
by Chinese, Javanese, Hindus, Americans, Nor-
wegians and Australians who wanted to be
eyewitnesses of the Second Advent. Sub-
sequently there were huge congresses of devotees
in Chicago, where a gigantic omelette was
cooked for the occasion, and 'in Scotland and
Holland. One reporter, Interviewing the Teacher
in Scotland, is said to have extracted the in-
formation that he was a plus-four golfer. When
Krishnamurti lost his dynamic mentor in
1933 doubts seem to have entered his head
as to the validity of his godhead. He was
heard asserting that he was not, a deity but a
philosopher and only on the threshold of his
subject. When I met him in Melbourne I
found him an exceptionally intelligent, sensitive
young man, very interested in the education
of children. He was invited to an artist’s studio
to give his views on the subject, but the artist
had viewpoints of his own and poor Krishna-
murti couldn’t get a word in. He was lecturing
in America when 1 last heard of him.
Sir Willoughby Norrie, now returning
from Britain, figured in an interesting
reunion when he met at a luncheon in
London two of his predecessors at
Adelaide Government House. They were
Lord Gowrie, who as Sir Alexander Hore
Ruthven was Governor of S.A. from
1928-34, and Sir Henry Galway (1914-20).
Still active at 88, Galway had a varied
career in the colonial service before com-
ing to S.A. As Deputy-Commissioner of
the Oil Rivers Protectorate he concluded a
treaty with the King of Benin in 1892 ; he
commanded a Hausa force at the capture
of Nimbe in the following year and again
at the capture of Benin City; took part
in several minor scraps in Nigeria; be-
came Divisional Commissioner of
Southern Nigeria, and was Governor of
St. Helena and the Gambia before he
arrived in Adelaide.
H. C, C. Petley put 53 years of book-
selling behind him when he retired the
other day from the service of Melbourne’s
veteran book business, Robertson and
Mullens. He was one of George Robert-
son’s original apprentices, and served in
the shop continuously from 1894, except
for one break when Holman Hunt’s The
Light of the World made its extraordin-
ary tour of the Empire, producing scenes
in the galleries similar to religious re-
vivals in the Middle Ages. Petley super-
vised the tour in Australia and M.L.
At 33 Leslie George Oxby, manager of
the Adelaide branch of the A.M.P.
Society, is on the young side, but
doing things aheafd of schedule has be-
come a habit with him. At 19 he passed
his examinations for the Australasian
Insurance Institute and at 20 he qualified
as an associate of the Institute of
Actuaries; he had to wait until he was
21 before being admitted, and by that
POLICIES.
time he was ready to pass his Fellowship
exam. —the youngest Australian to attain
that distinction. In 1936, while in the
London office, he attended the Inter-
national Conference of Actuaries in Paris,
and on his way back to Australia made
a brief study of life assurance in U.S.A.
He became secretary to the general
manager in 1940, served four years with
the R.A.A.F. as a navigator, and was
grabbed by the Commonwealth in 1944
to carry out some actuarial investigations.
Oxby is a keen cricketer and his favorite
hobby is talking sport, any kind of sport
: —except horse-racing.
Latest accession to N.Z. Supreme
Court Bench is Kenneth Macfarlane
Gresson, a Christchurch native, now 56.
A grandson of the first Supreme Court
Judge appointed in Canterbury province,
he, like the majority of N.Z.’s Supreme
Court Judges, served in World War I as
a captain in the. Canterbury Battalion.
Wounded at Gallipoli, he was invalided
home with the rank of major. For 20
years he has been Dean of the Faculty
of Law at Canterbury Uni. College.
For the first time a N.Z. citizen has
received America’s Medal of Freedom,
awarded to Americans not in the armed
forces or persons pot resident in the
U.S.A. who have rendered valuable ser-
vices to America in war. He is Dr. E.
Marsden, who was war-time secretary of
the Department of Scientific and Indus-
trial Research in N.Z. and is now in
England on scientific liaison work.
“0.F.”: During the war the head-
quarters and other city branches of the
armed forces invariably had a parking
space reserved outside their buildings for
the use of service cars only. Harried
civilian motorists looking for room to
park often took a chance and left their
buggies in the service preserves. The
Air Training Corps in Perth was afflicted
with parking-space poachers and the com-
mandant, Captain C. W. Snooks, origin-
ated or approved of a polite corrective
in the form of a roneoed letter;
You have parked your car in a space
reserved for the R.A.A.F. This has caused
considerable inconvenience and if it happens
again we will be forced to notify the police.
The letter was left in all cars parked
without authority in the A.T.C.’s reserve.
Possibly it had some effect, but one copy
was returned with a pencilled reply
added:
Dear Sir,
Urgent necessity forced me to park in
the only space available.
D. Hunter,
Commissioner of Police.
David Hunter, a Victorian, joined the
Westralian Police Force in 1901 and was
Commissioner from 1934 until his recent
retirement.
Into the Silence:
At 76, in Brisbane, John Edward Burke,
whose life-story was the story of Cape York
and Carpentaria shipping, a business which he
learnt as captain of a coaster in the gold days.
Without his enterprise many a lone outpost of
the North would have been completely isolated.
In his later days Brisbane sport owed a good
deal to his generosity, and he was an ardent
follower of the turf.
In Adelaide, at 73, Captain Robert Sylvestel
Jalland, one of the old windship masters. He
put some of the first A.I.F. troops ashore on
Gallipoli, was later in Commonwealth Line
freighters, and at the finish Senior Marine
Surveyor in Port Adelaide.
In Adelaide, at 58, Col. H. J. Copley, of an
old S.A. family. He was early on Gallipoli
with the A.1.F., and in 1926 commanded the
6th Cavalry Brigade. In business, he was
manager of Elder Smith’s stock department,
and chairman of directors of the “Stock and
Station Journal.” He gained an 0.8. E. in
1940, and was president of the Naval and
Military Club.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 87, Archdeacon W.
Curzon-Siggers, a big figure in Anglican circles
25 fears ago. An M.A. of Durham University,
he came from South Africa in 1887 to Hamil-
ton and Ballarat (Vic.), before crossing to N.Z.
in 1895.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 63, Mrs. Pirihira
Heketa, chieftainess of the Ngati-Whatu-I-Apiti
tribe. In recognition of her services in all
Maori patriotic and other movements she re-
ceived the B.E.M.
At Wallaroo (S.A.), at 92, Peter Sullivan,
vice-consul for Norway. As W.A. manager for
George Wills at the beginning of the century
he formed a progress league at Albany, and
helped to get the goldfields children a summer
holiday ait the seaside.
At Dogura, at 81, Henry Newton, former
Bishop of New Guinea. A pioneer of the
New Guinea Mission, he was consecrated
Bishop of Carpentaria in 1915 and succeeded
the late Archbishop Sharp as Bishop of New
Guinea in 1922. »He stayed in the diocese
after his retirement and engaged in translation
work and the training of the native clergy.
At Mosman (Sydney), at 88, Victor Brans-
combe Hall, of Bundong Station, Coolabah
(N.S.W.). Born at Lake Bathurst (N.S.W.),
he went as a jackeroo to Willeroon Station on
the Bogan in 1874 and was to become its
owner. A fine old bushman, he was a grandson
of Edward Hall Smith, who founded the
“Monitor” in Sydney in 1826 and was a storm-
centre in the early life of the colony.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Hats made the headlines at the Caul-
field Guineas meeting, and never have
they been prettier or more flattering.
Many women chose hats which were
small and close-fitting ; others were large
and had the new sweeping elliptical line.
Some were in felt but many were
fashioned of natural straw or panama.
Mostly they were worn back from the
brow and showed a smooth hairline.
Flowers were seen in abundance, but many
of the smartest hats were trimmed with
striped or plain satin ribbon. Because
of a cold, biting wind, comfort demanded
the warmest of suits and coats. Where
the outfit was black —still a fashionable
color—uplift was lent by the gaiety of
the hat. One of the favorites, the grey
tailored suit, was well in evidence, and
here the colorful blouse was called for.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of
V.A.T.C. chairman, wore a powder-blue
wool suit with a small matching hat.
Mrs. John Cain’s pastel-blue blouse was
matched by her gloves; both were worn
with a black suit with a silver-fox collar.
Mrs. J. C. Haydon was in black. Mrs.
George Maxwell’s suit was grey, with
hat to match. Mrs. C, L. Parsons, of
Sydney, wore a navy ensemble with up-
turned hat. Mrs. K. M. Niall favored a
currant-red frock and black straw halo
hat, with plumage. Olive Rosenthal was
tailored in grey; hat and veiling sharing
the color scheme, Joan Hume merited
top marks with a halo hat of burnt
straw trimmed with masses of cherries,
Barbara Sellick’s bandeau was of blue
and white mixed straw and blue flowers.
Pat Green’s wide-brimmed natural straw
hat had flowers massed in front of the
crown. Mrs. Edgar Noble’s light navy
wool ensemble, the jacket featuring large
flap pockets, and teamed with an up-
turned white panama, banded and veiled
in navy-blue, was the day’s sartorial high-
light.
The shop window lent by Glen’s music
warehouse to> the committee of the
Ministering Children’s League has been
drawing the Collins-street crowds. There
are nightgowns which would delight the
heart of any bride-to-be, for they are
fashioned of shimmering satin and hand-
made lace. There are attractive aprons,
silverware and old jewellery. These are
some of the things which will be for sale
to the public in a drive to swell the
League’s funds. Mrs. Walter Carnegie,
president of the League, told presswomen
over the luncheon table at Menzies of the
work which has been done by the auxili-
aries. Many of them have not only made
the fashion goods, which will be sold
free of coupons, but have provided the
materials. The Mildura auxiliary sent
down a generous supply of jams and
fruit; members of the Geelong branch
will come to the city to assist in staffing
the shop. All the year round there are
never fewer than 60 children at the
cottage at Queenscliff, and during the
summer months children from country
centres are given two months’ holiday
there. The League is especially interested
in the children of ex-servicemen.
Toward the turn of the century
heavily-veiled ladies entered almost fur-
tively the beauty salon in London newly
opened by Cyclax. To celebrate the
50th anniversary of this beauty firm and
to assist the funds of the Whernside
auxiliary of the Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital, all the fashions between the gay
’nineties and now were shown to an
audience which gazed in wonder' and no
little awe at the frills and furbelows.
The frocks, authentic period gowns
from the collection of Mrs. Doris Lang-
ley Moore, which had been shown in a
similar parade at London’s Dorchester
Hotel in April, were brought to Aus-
tralia by Mrs. Vyvyan Holland.
A carriage dress worn by Lily Langfcry
in 1897 was modelled by Mrs. lan Potter.
The jacket, worn with the dress, was the
forerunner of the jacket so popular to-
day. It was of black velvet, elaborately
trimmed with silver beads, and with it
went a demure little ermine-trimmed vel-
vet bonnet which tied under the chin.
Mrs. Geoffrey Smith wore a rich creamy
satin ball gown with a very full skirt
embroidered with pink roses and green
leaves. It had an off-the-shoulder line,
with net sleeves trimmed with bands of
green velvet. Mrs. Noel Dixon bravely
wore a swim suit of the ’nineties ; a full
skirt of heavy navy material covered
long frilled panties, and a mob cap con-
fined her hair. So to the hectic ’twenties,
when fashion decreed the long-waisted,
loose-hanging skirts which ended be-
tween the calf and ankle. Joy Youlden
and a group of Uni. students danced the
Charleston, all of them in frocks of the
period. Mrs. Holland, who compered
the parade, wore a dinner gown of black
crepe and a small hat of black velvet and
flowers.
The Australia-China Association cele-
brated the Chinese Republic’s National
Day with a luncheon at the Victoria.
Guest speaker was W. Kent Hughes,
M.L.A., who spoke of his experiences
with the Chinese while a p.-0.-w. in
Malaya. The president of the associa-
tion, S. L. Prescott, added his quota of
praise for the Chinese people. Consul
for China Martin Wang proposed the
toast of Australia. Among the impor-
tants 'Who furthered the cause of inter-
national goodwill were the Lieut-
Governor, Sir Edmund Herring, and his
wife; the Chief Justice, Sir John
Latham, and Lady Latham ; Chancellor
of the University Mr. Justice Lowe and
Mrs. Lowe and the U.S. Consul-
General Richard Boyce and Mrs. Boyce.
A garden-set stage and flags of all
nations fluttering from the balconies of
St. Kilda Town Hall made a nice back-
ground for the brilliant national costumes
worn by dancers at the first post-war
ball given by the International Club of
Victoria. Many of the national groups’
tables were decorated in ' distinctive
fashion —the French group centred theirs
with a model of the Eiffel Tower. Presi-
dent and founder of the International
Club, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, who re-
ceived the guests assisted by Lady Harri-
son Moore, chose a gown of black French
crepe trimmed with jewelled bands.
Among the official guests were the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinze, in white
silk patterned in field flowers. Other
guests included Mrs. I. H. Moss, Mrs.
Arthur Hordern, whose gown was of
black floral satin, and Mrs. Dick Hamer
in a pastel-blue satin. King Mouey,
convenor of the national, committee,
wore a Chinese national costume.
Attractive subject of the subjoined
Broothorn study is Evelyn, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Parish, of Mel-
bourne. A “Miss Australia” Quest
entrant, she has been sponsored by the
Victorian Trainers’ Association. Evelyn,
who is just 18, tall, slim and fair, with
vivid blue- eyes, is a mannequin. Swim-
ming, aquaplaning, tennis and cycling are
her recreations.
The buffet-dinner dance at the Col-
chester, which was sponsored by the Vic.
Trainers’ Association for Miss Parish was
a handsome surprise packet for all who
attended; as well it came home an easy
financial winner, Evelyn danced in a
black net frock, the bouffant skirt and
short jacket trimmed with deep cream
lace. Mrs. Theo Lewis, whose pastel-
blue dinner gown sparkled with diamente
trimming, had plenty of scope for exer-
cising her flair for organising. Among
the guests were Evelyn’s parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Herbert Parish, and her two aunts,
Mrs. J. Pierce, the bodice of whose gown
of mushroom-toned crepe was trimmed
with gold studs, and Mrs. F. I. Cooling,
in silver-sequined pastel-blue crepe.
Mrs. Des McCormack’s beige frock was
pleated ; Grace McCann’s black French
crepe dinner gown featured a heavily-
beaded yoke ; Mrs. Harold Badger was
smart in a black lace dinner gown.
From Sydney
Mrs. J. Northcott will open the Chel-
sea Flower Show at half-past two this
afternoon. Location, as usual, the Syd-
ney Domain, just inside the main gates
near St. Mary’s Cathedral. The Royal
Art Society is again holding an exhibi-
tion of floral, still-life and garden scenes.
Red Cross benefits.
The chandeliers in Government House
ballroom have glittered down on the
young dancing generation after many
wars: the Sudan, the Boer, World
War I. The graceful ballroom welcomed
still another company of post-war
dancers last week when nearly 250 of
Sydney’s budding citizens were the guests
of the Governor, Lieut.-General John
Northcott, and Mrs. Northcott. This
ball was in honor of daughter Marjorie
and her bridegroom-to-be, Major Donald
Coburn. Even the flowers in Govern-
ment House gardens seemed to have
bloomed with special radiance for the
occasion, and they were a shining delight
in the entrance-hall and drawing-room.
Only the weather was a nark. All day and
night long the rain fell, just as it did for
the Government House ball a year ago.
The gardens, which were to have been
floodlit, remained in darkness; but the
wide terrace outside the ballroom was
kept snug with red-and-white canvas.
White frocks were very popular. Miss
Marjorie Northcott’s white chiffons were
graceful with a finely-pleated skirt and
softly-shirred bodice. Sister= Elizabeth’s
picturesque frock of broderie Anglaise
was bouffant and had a softly-ruffled
~ , , 3 , ~
neckline. Major Coburn helped the
Governor s daughters to receive their
guests. Later the Governor and Mis.
Northcott and Mrs. Coburn, Major
Coburns mother, JO ine d the party for a
little while. Mrs. Northcott s frock was
of parma-violet crepe. Gold butterflies
were meshed in the deep berthe of
Sheila Collett s full-skirted pink mar-
quisette.
Marjorie Northcott, elder daughter of
the Governor and Mrs. Northcott, whose
wedding with Major Donald Coburn will
be Sydney’s social event in November,
Norton Trevaire photograph.
The Old Ignatians’ Union and the
Riverview Younger Set will go gay on
October 16 in the Trocadero. Reason,
to aid the Riverview War Memorial.
The war memorial is Kilmory, the old
home of Surgeon Alexander McCormick
at Point Piper. It is now known as
Campion Hall. Committee promises a
March Gras festival with all the trim-
mings.
A shrewd wind slapped the front of
the Randwick stands at the mid-week
meeting known as Ladies’ Day. Officially
it was named Craven Plate Day, and the
racebooks bore the title across their
covers. As far as a fashion display,
Derby Day won by lengths. Nothing to
equal that gladsome surge of styles,
stockings and sweeping brims was seen
on the later days. Still, each day had its
moments. By Wednesday nobody
bothered to exclaim over low necklines
or the sleeveless frock. They had become
fashion currency. One frock remembered
was beige, sleek and of lizard-slimness.
Its wearer must have learned to step
small. But all the material it had saved
from its width bloomed into a bosker
bow on what a U.S. fashion scribe once
described as the lower spine.
„ This Letter liked the Quaker»girl top to
some of the cotton frocks —Judy Cooper’s
brightly-striped little number among
them. White roses on the edge of its
brim made a real picture-hat of the soft
white straw worn by Mrs. John Bovill.
The tone of her flowered frock was a
freshly-opened petunia-blue, and she
really was one of the belles of Randwick.
White azaleas cascaded from the left side
of Carol Coles’s hat, small and deep-blue.
Two large pink roses were coy beneath
the brim of Mrs. Tom Bateman’s large
black lace hat. Dark-blue sheer nylons
brought a sigh of envy from many. These
clad the legs of life’s blessed. Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones wore them with her
navy lightweight wool suit. This had been
designed by Pierre Balmain, and flew one
of that designer’s favorite hip-bows. This
time of navy-and-white check.
Mrs. Jane Bernays, now quite re-
covered, brought daughter Gay. Jane
loves the horses, and talks of soop run-
ning a racehorse of her own. Banker
C. R. McKerihan’s wife was there win-
ning large sums of money to pop into the
family money-box. She owned to being
five shillings up on the tote by mid-week.
Of the whole meeting nobody neater and
completer than Mrs. Lennox Bode and
Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones, The latter’s
trig, upturned white-felt hat wore a veil
of fine blue mesh, and from the narrow
chin ribbon dangled two large white
pompons. Margaret Salenger, now off
with the Leslie Stewarts to the Nar-
randera races, and Mrs, Frank Rogers,
whose small Hat was inspired by wine
and white hyacinths, added to the meet-
ing’s gaiety.
The White Ball launched in 1936 added
another happy voyage to its history last
week. Once the wearing of white frocks
was compulsory, but owing to present-
day dress difficulties any color now
goes. Still, most of the 1947 frocks
were white, and at one time in the
early part of the evening the foyer of
the Trocadero, garnished and gar-
landed with white flowers on tall white
standards, suggested the decor for some
modern ballet. The really intriguing
question was: where did the supple and
gleaming satin in some of the frocks come
from? It was the real thing. Perhaps
the women who discover these materials
in the shops have developed some special
sense —like water-diviners. High marks
among the satin-clad went to Mrs. Roy
Buckland, president of the ball. One
shoulder-strap of the frock was of
diamante, the other of white gardenias.
Another wearer of lustrous satin was Mrs.
L. R. Coleman. Her frock was thickfy-
crusted with pearl embroideries.
Mrs. Noel Vincent’s fine embroidered
lawns were admired; so was Mrs. John
Bovill’s lovely white moire frock. This
was full-skirted, and white roses outlined
its one shoulder-strap. The judges of the
most attractive frock gave her first place.
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere and Mrs. Dudley
Hardy wore striking black frocks, Mrs.
Dekyvere’s being a fine-wool weave.
Probably there were never more pretty
girls gathered together in one place than
at this year’s ball. The young flower-
sellers were really radiant. The Roy
Bucklands entertained the official guests:
Knights Alfred Davidson and Ben Fuller
and their wives, Admiral G. D. Moore
and Mrs. Moore. Draped white chiffons
and white orchids were worn by Mrs.
Harry Meeks, and a lace frock, allied with
red roses won her and Mrs. W. J. Smith
second and third places respectively in the
most attractive frock contest. The judges
were Roy Buckland, Marcel Dekyvere
and Frank Packer.
Interesting guest at the Ballet Club’s
lunch to George Formby and his missus
(though George was ill and had a date
with his bed instead, and Mrs. Formby
couldn’t come as she was being minister-
ing angel to her husband) was overseas
producer Casper Middleton. He was
there with his wife, Peggy Ford-
Carrington. He talked of the early
days of picture-making in Australia;
he helped to direct many locals
before he went to London, In those
days they filmed The Octoroon and
Gambler’s Gold, very popular movies.
At the lunch, too, was Mrs. Lacey Per-
cival, who played a child part in one of
his pictures. This was a surprise meet-
ing after more than 20-odd years. He
says that the photography now has
nothing on the photography then.
The lunch was an enormous success.
The Ballet Club Rooms hold about 120;
there were about 160 guests. President
Mrs. Vera Lacey was so pleasant a
hostess that she made people forget the
absence of the distinguished guest.
Knight Ben Fuller and his lady and
Aubrey Halloran were there.
The big afternoon “do” after Wednes-
day’s races was the Australian Club’s
cocktail party. Hundreds streamed into
the Macquarie-street male fastness that
had turned itself into something of a
floral fete for the occasion. Nice touch
for the women guests was a box of choco-
lates for each as she left. This was the
first time since pre-war days that women
have sauntered at will through the club.
The whole was set to music by a string
orchestra. One wondered who listened
to it.
Dinner parties were a feature of
October race week. The Dudley Hardys,
Rosemary Parker and Barbara Finlay,
and Mrs. J. D. K. Roche and her daugh-
ters Diana and Judy entertained before
the White Ball. The dance at the Royal
Sydney Golf Club given by the P. H.
Osbornes, of Tarago, the P. J. B.
Osbornes, of Bungendore, Colonel and
Mrs. T, F, L. Rutledge, of Bungendore,
and the Geoffrey Ashtons, of Binda, was
preceded by a dinner at Princes for all
the hosts and hostesses. Their cards had
gone out to 300 guests, one of them
pretty Dinah Fielding Jones, just spread-
ing her wings as a social butterfly.
Tasmanians in Sydney added their
brew (do you think it was apple cider?)
to race-week festivities. The Tasmanian
Association staged a bright five to half-
past seven onwards in the Lyceum Club.


UNION mUSIEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
offers a comprehensive service
covering every phase of Estate Manage -
ment 9 Executorship and Trusteeship,
and providing for the efficient control
and administration of all related matters,
or your personal affairs.
The expert knowledge gained through
sixty years of Union Trustee experience
in these matters simplifies the handling
of all details.
This efficient service is available at
moderate cost.
101*
*sr.
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c.; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g. ; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., M.X..C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector; Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager; C. D. Wrigley.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—J. C, Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street —A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
—Protect your Property—insure with —
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LIMITED
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £7,000,000
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: BW 8131 (3 Lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 65,089 8 p.c. - 40,000 25,089 231,269
1938.. 50,047 74 „ „ 41,240 8,807 240,076
1939.. 47,910 7 „ „ 88,500 9,410 249,486
1940.. 53,226 7 „ „ 38,500 14,726 264,212
1941.. 43,908 7 „ „ 38,500 5,408 269,620
1942.. 37,732 6 „ „ 33,000 4,732 274.352
1943.. 49,548 7 „ „ 38,500 11,048 285,400
Inner reserves disclosed .. 100,000 885,400
1944.. 56,809 7 p.c. = 38,500 18,309 403,709
1945.. 53,659 7 „ „ 38,500 15,159 418,868
1946.. 57,156 7 „ „ 38,500 18,656 437,524
1947.. 64,386 7 „ „ 38,500 25,886 463,410
It was the high prices received for wool
and livestock that put most of the spring
(£7230) into last term’s net earnings.
Other helpful factors were purchase of
the well-established stock-and-station
business of Robert Gibson and Sons,
Harden (N.S.W.), opening of a new
branch at Rockhampton (Q.) and
improved turnover in the Brisbane
machinery section of the business.
In both N. S. Wales and Queensland,
where the co. has wide connections, many
growers sheared the lightest clip since
1943. During the. intervening years
drought dried up pastures and water-
courses, with consequent heavy stock
losses, as the following comparison of
sheep population in each State shows:
March, March, March, March,
1943. 1945. 1946. 1947.
’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO.
N. S. Wales .. 56,044 46,662 44,076 43,015
Queensland .. 25,650 21,292 18,944 16,084
Still, growers generally received record
cheques last season. The clip for the
Commonwealth realised £92,335,940 (up
£34,175,940); the average price per pound
(greasy and scoured combined) was
25.15 d., an increase of 56.3 p.c., thanks to
resumption of auctions, a hungry world
market and the judicious handling of
accumulated war-time stocks by J.O.
Sheep were worth about twice as much
as they were in the previous season, and
fat and store cattle fetched unusually
high prices, too. However, much of the
gilt was taken off the grower’s "ginger-
bread by sharp increases in production
and shearing costs, higher freight rates
and a greedy Treasury.
The co. sold 14,735 fewer bales wool
and 113,573 fewer sheep, but put an
extra 592 head of cattle under the
hammer:
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1939 ~ 207,354 395,256 29,272
1942 .. 242,581 493,326 18,931
1944 .. 255,330 616,852 23,347
1945 .. 222,995 521,743 21,727
1946 .. 227.552 436,266 22,474
1947 . . 212,817 322,693 23,069
However, higher prices offset lower
handlings. After allowing for de-
preciation and taxation, profit was
the best for the last decade. The
£64,386 claimed was 11.7 p.c. on
capital as against 10.4, 9.4, 10.3, 9, 6.8,
and 8 p.c. back to 1941. The careful
board kept the div. at 7 p.c., leaving
£25,886 to put on the shelf, thus lifting
reserves £463,410 in excess of goodwill
(£41,983), not treated as an asset herein.
Recent rains have brightened the sea-
sonal outlook in both States ; and good
to average fleeces are fetching still higher
prices. Mainly because of this there has
been little buying so far on U.S. account.
And since wool is our chief source of
dollars, further cuts have had to be made
in our imports from the dollar area.
Although the world hunger for wool tex-
tiles has not yet been overtaken, the
international situation is so fluid as to
make any estimate of the future level of
demand and prices highly speculative.
Nobody can say how long the present
network of exchange rates will remain at
present levels ; adjustments might result
in a drop in wool prices in terms of Aus-
tralian money.
The co.’s financial position strength-
ened : —-
1940. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Capital .. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Creditors .. 285,862 347,865 364,784 602,736
Overdraft ~ 282,759 285,291 198,481 91,221
Freeholds .. 220,624 260,241 274,326 279,388
Plant.. .. 16,452 10,686 9,585 18,397
Stocks .. 65,775 48,828 73,979 93,276
Advances, etc. 1,107,380 1,274,725 1,198,878 1,824,284
Investments and
cash .. 11,851 26,294 11,272 11,272
Last year’s growth of £237,952 „in the
amount coming to sundry creditors, re-
daction of £107,260 in the overdraft and
addition of £125,406 to advances, etc.,
are interrelated. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£734,875) was £14,011.
On a 7 p.c. div. basis the f.-p. pound
shares at 375. 9d. return 3.7 p.c. The
lOs.-paid contribs. at 20s, yield 3.5 p.c.
Net tangible cover is 365. lOd. per pound
of paid capital.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends >
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 8| p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1938.. 105,211 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) 9Qr qn .
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..) 3 ’
1939.. 106,659 12,000 28,000 35,000 I 999 rri
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J
10 p.c.*
1940. . 112,331 12,000 28,000 40,000 ) 00 ,
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J J 49 >° 94
8J p.c.
1941.. 110,044 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) Q7Q o qb
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..J 379,938
74 p.c.
1942.. 93,115 12,000 28,000 30,000 ) , oanr ,
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j 3y8 * u ' id
1943.. 92,718 12,000 28,000 30,000 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 415 > 771
8J p.c.
1944.. 100,389 12,000 28,000 35,000 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .ISM OO
„ 10 p.c.
1945.. 102,397 12,000 28,000 40,000 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 453,557
1946. . 112,224 12,000 28,000 40,000 ) ,„ n
To staff fund, £5OOO . . f 480,781
1947.. 114,902 12,000 28,000 40,000 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. j 510,683
* Including 1J p.c. statutory bonus.
For the big department stores and other
retailers business hummed like a hive of
bees in summer-time during the 12
months to end July last, thanks to a
buoyant national income, lengthy pay-
rolls, and high and rising wage rates.
Also goods came forward in better volume
from both local and overseas sources,
including the U.S. Another factor helpful
to this co.’s turnover is The position of
the store, which occupies the entire end
of one of the busiest blocks in the city.
Despite a steady rise in prices, re-
tail turnovers bounded along, as the
following table shows —it gives percentage
changes in aggregate sales of 22 Sydney
stores compared with the corresponding
period of the previous year:
Average Three Months Ended Year.
t - A >
Sept. Dee. Mar. June. Year.
1939- +2.6 +5.6 +8.2 +6.3 +4.5
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 —2.4 +B.O
1942- —6.0 —19.3 —lB.B —6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 —1.6 +1.3 —l.B —5.7
1944- +6.6 +7.4 +4.8 +3.2 +5.4
1945- +22.5 +30.8 +37.2 +35.3 +31.6
1946- +34.6 +25.0 +14.9 +20.3 +23h
And trade would have been livelier still
but for continued shortage of some lines
and maintenance of clothes rationing,
which now serves no useful purpose in
lines not in short supply. In these cases
the upper limit of gross margins fixed
by price-control tends to become in-
flexible minimum price, thus eliminating
the influence of competition upon mark-
ups.
Farmers showed the best profit yet.
After allowing for taxation and other
contingencies, the figure was £2678
stronger than the previous year’s at
£114,902, That covered full contract
rates for the prefs. and 18.7 p.c. on the
£400,000 of ord. capital, compared with
18, 15.6, 15.1, 13.1, 13.2, 17.5 and 18 p.c.
back to 1940. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 7.6 p.c. So the pref. money,
which calls for an average of 6.6 p.c.,
is earning more than its keep. The div.
remained at 10 p.c.
Although the recent spate of buying
is no longer gaining speed, there is no-
thing at present to suggest an abrupt and
early contraction in earnings, though they
may ease a little. The dollar crisis and
cuts in imports from U.S. will restrict
supplies from that source; but there
is room for further expansion of
output from Australian factories.
Employment is still abundant and
incomes buoyant, though how long they
will continue so remains to be seen.
Ugliest feature is the high and rising
level of costs, which are likely to prove
a rigid and very troublesome factor on a
falling market. However, the wide
margin between last term’s earnings and
distributions gives the 10 p.c. div. a com-
fortable appearance.
The co. has an able management and
is well-ribbed financially:
1939. 1941. 1946. 1947.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage .. 50,000 480,000 225,000 175,000
Creditors*.. 206,902 811,469 585,994 681,695
Staff fund 15,146 30,631 55,600 60,541
Freehold and
plant . . 1,467,511 1,406,829 1,207,486 1,197,856
Stock .. 373,644 . 473,930 513,564 749,939
Book debts 184,048 270,091 143,685 271,059
Cash and in-
vestments 44,409 71,188 502,640 229,065
* Including contingencies provision.
Last term’s addition of £236,375 to stocks
is partly an insurance against rising
prices and supply difficulties. To meet
the outlay, carry an extra £127,374 of
debtors’ balances and clip £50,000 off
the mortgage the board drew upon cash.
etc., for £273,575. The more or less
liquid surplus (£332,827) was £39,532
stronger than at the previous balance.
Noting the co.’s comfortable position,
financially and otherwise, the market
prices the ords. at 465. 3d. At this figure
the return is 4.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The first and second prefs. at 28s.
6d. and 335. 6d. respectively each yield
approximately 4.2 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £7 11s. 4d. firsts, £3 ss. 6d. seconds
and 455. 6d. ords.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 134,118 10 p.c. = 104,167 ) 27 451 „ 10 qnn
Provident fund, £2500 J 2 '’ 401 210.900
1938.-102,555 8 p.c. = 90,101) q qr;4 99n s ..
Provident fund, £2500 ( ’ 220,854
1939'. . 140,669 10 p.c. 125,000 ) -.o -i«q 9 0. q9 q
Provident fund, £2500 f 13,169 234, °" 3
1940.. 133,307 8 p.c. = 113,115 ) 17 fio9 71 -
Providcnt fund, £2500 \ 17,692 251,715
1941.. 138,683 8 p.c. = 120,000 ) 9fi7 BQ9
Provident fund, £2500 ) 16,133 267,898
1942.. 113,360 7i p.c.= 112,500 ) _
Provident fund, £2500 J 20b,Z08
Intangibles disclosed, £ll,lOO ~ 277,358
1943.- 139,204 74 p.c.= 112,500 ) 9 , _ nl
Provident fund, £2500 { 24,204 301,562
1944.. 142,653 8 p.c. = 120,000 1
Provident fund, £2500 j 20,1,>3 321,715
1945.. 141,621 ,Bp.c.= 120,000 ) IQI9I „, n oo R
Provident fund, £2500 \ 19,121 340,836
1946.. 140,928 8 p.c. = 120,000 )■,o . 9S q Kq 9R ,
Provident fund, £2500 . . \ 18,428 359,264
Prom Cont’gies prov’n, £100,000.. 459,264
1947. ._151,620 8 p.c. = 120 000 ) 20 12Q 433 334
Provident fund, £2500 .. ) *
Service demands for the hard stuff, both
from our own and Allied forces, tapered
sharply and profits eased in 1946. But
sales got a lift again following demobilisa-
tion, when everybody was in the mood
and had the money to buy his neighbor
a drink. Meanwhile, a bumper export
income and “full” employment at high
and rising wage rates contributed to main-
tenance of boom conditions, and beer
rationing ceased in March, 1946. The
cessation, however, didn’t mean all that
it might, because the shortage of barley
and hops stood in the way of immediately
stepping-up brewery output. But the
position eased as the thirsty summer
months (1946-47) arrived, and this co.
and Queensland Brewery between them
enjoy a lion’s share of the trade in
Queensland.
C.P.’s net earnings shot up £10,692 for
the year to end July last, reaching
£151,620, which was 10.1 p.c. on the
million and a half of paid capital, com-
pared with 9.4, 9.4, 9.5, 9.3, 7.5, 9.2, 9.4
and 11.2 p.c. back to 1939. That was
after allowing £165,000 (up £30,000)
for taxation, £8567 (up £7) for deprecia-
tion and providing something for con-
tingencies. That the providing has been
generous in the past is now obvious from
the fact that £IOO,OOO previously set aside,
for contingencies was brought from hid-
ing and put in the window at the close
of last accounts. In the published figures
provision for contingencies is lumped with
sundry creditors £308,825 (down
£32,644) at end July. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c., a policy with which discerning
shareholders will not quarrel, and the
usual £2500 was sent to the staff fund.
The £29,120 that remained lifted visible
reserves to £488,384, equal to 4s. Bd, per
f.-p. 12s. 6d. share.
In the years ahead it will be the relative
levels of turnover and costs that deter-
mine the measure of brewery profits.
The Government makes off with far the
biggest whack of takings; excise (4s. 7d.
a gallon) alone accounts for about 73 p.c.
of the brewer’s gross receipts for bulk
beer; the other 27 p.c., approximately
ss. sd. in the £, has to cover production,
distribution and other costs (including
co. tax) as well as profit. Treasury esti-
mates of excise revenue don’t anticipate
any falling off in beer consumption during
the current year, and the co. will get
some benefit from the abolition of
war-time (co.) tax —it operated on a slid-
ing scale, gobbling from 6 p.c. to 78 p.c.
of the excess of taxable co. profit oyer
5 p.c. on capital employed (share capital
plus reserves). On the other hand there
is no sign of an early recession in the
price of barley, hops, sugar and other
brewing ingredients; transport and ah
other costs continue to rise, and introduc-
tion of the 40-hour week from the begin-
ning of 1948 will aggravate this aspect of
the problem. All things considered it is
doubtful whether anything better than
an 8 p.c. div. need be expected at present.
When materials and labor become
available deferred repairs and mainten-
ance of hotel properties and outlay on the
brewery will call for substantial outlay.
The next table shows, among other things,


DAVIES & COLUSON, , Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Established 18G8
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACICbQiy
OSIIMJVAN ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER ?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
ẁ
ẃ
n/J’er
inti
Cylinder
i
ẅ
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightlully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American, African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos. \
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Aluminium, satin finished, awning ceiling and oxidised bronze fascia to
Protestant Alliance Building, Sydney.
Awning Ceilings
IN ALUMINIUM OR BRONZE
The installation of Wunderlich Metal Ceilings for Awnings, porticos, and the interiors of
shops, offices, and other buildings is again proceeding.
AVAILABLE NOW are modern designs in Wunderlich Metal Ceilings which can be
readily installed over faulty ceilings (of other materials) without creating inconvenience
or litter.
We invite your enquiries now. ’Phone MX 2411 or write S.P.O. Box 474, Sydney.
c/erttc/i
ETAL CEILINGS
Beautiful* permanent • modern
VISIT OUR SHOWROOMS OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS. WUNDERLICH
LIMITED, ESTABLISHED OVER 55 YEARS, BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.; BRISBANE. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, HOBART.
LAUNCESTON. PERTH, ASSOCIATES: H. L BRISBANE & WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
Trinity Grammar School
SUMMER HILL AND STRATHFIELD
A Church of England School for Boys
-■
m
,
--»■ ,
(The additions to School House, Summer Hill).
The School accommodates its 500 boys in three separate, but closely
allied, establishments; the Senior School at Summer Hill, and the
Preparatory School and Junior House at Strathlield. Boys of protestant
denomination are taken from Kindergarten to Matriculation Honours in
all subjects. A number of valuable scholarships is awarded annually.
The new additions to School House at Summer Hill, and the recently
acquired Junior House at Strathlield, provide unsurpassed boarder ac-
commodation. The School has 17 acres of fine grounds and playing
fields and an up to date Swimming Pool with filtration plant.
Although the completed building scheme will provide considerable
extra accommodation, immediate enrolment for 1948 and subsequent
years is advised. For School Prospectus and all other details apply
to the Bursar at Summer Hill.
Headmaster: J. Wilson Hogg, M.A. (Oxon).
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
Fire.
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, # J. W. DUNLOP.
Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
t wn t jams npnpral Manager.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
what the board has done to meet this
contingency:
1935. 1940. 1946. 1947.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 781,250 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Creditors* 251,984 316,898 341,469 308,825
Tax reserve
houses, etc. 329,732 005,197 | 2 ,026,684
Hotels . . 774,170 1,523,471 1,510,369 j
Stocks 74 244 122,764 122,956 134,004
Debtors ” C 4.710 95,159 78,261 96,908
Cash, etc..'.' 13,715 82,237 181,459 267,113
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
Last term cash, etc., was further streng-
thened by £85,654, while £18,647 was
added to debtors’ balances, £11,048 to
stocks and £ll,llß more was spent on
fixed assets than was written off. When
the books closed more or less liquids
exceeded outside liabilities by £24,200, an
improvement of £118,002 during the
twelvemonth.
The market sees no cloud in the co.’s
sky and prices the scrip at 28s. 3d., at
which figure the return is 3.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
King Island Scheelite (1947), Ltd.
The present flotation is intended to buy
the undertaking of King Island Scheelite,
N.L., formed in October, 1937, which
at present has an issued capital of 250,000
ss. shares. The old no-liability co. will
take 750,000 fully-paid ss. shares in
the new co. in full consideration, plus
£250,000 needed to discharge a debt of
about £500,000 owing to the Common-
wealth Government. This cash sum, with
£62,500 of additional working capital, is
being provided for by a public issue by
the new co. of 1,250,000 ss. shares, which
have already been overapplied for.
The ore deposit is at Grassy, on King
Island, Bass Strait, and is the largest
known single deposit of tungsten ore in
the world. It has been worked by the old
co. since June, 1938, and over 1000 tons
of concentrates were produced up to
February, 1944, yielding a profit of
£146,788, out of which divs. of £46,875
(3s. 9d. a share) were paid, and the re-
mainder used to finance plant extensions.
The cutting-off of Empire tungsten
supplies from China followed the Jap-
anese offensive in the Pacific, and a plant-
enlargement programme began early in
1943 with the aid of the Commonwealth
Government. The new treatment equip-
ment started in October, 1944, and profits
have been used to improve the mine.
With the aid of the Government advance
the value of the mine property (£136,218),
plant and housing grew to £628,097 at
June 21 last, and total assets, including
ores on hand, were £745,940 : deducting
bank overdraft and sundry creditors of
£58,648, net assets were £687,292, subject
to the £250,000 to be paid to the
Treasury. The Government’s acceptance
of 10s. in the £ for its debt helps to
keep capitalisation of war-time expansion
within reason.
Ore reserves are estimated at 3,132,000
tons proved to sea-level only, and the
mine average has been 0.6 p.c. scheelite.
T. R Victor talks of 85 p.c. extraction
from the new flotation-cwm-gravity plant,
against 50 p.c. hitherto, and the mine
manager (A. R. Bruhn) forecasts a 75 p.c.
recovery during the first year’s opera-
tions of the new co. On this latter basis,
treating 120,000 tons of 0.6 p.c. ore
and with concentrates selling at £6 per
unit (against £7 6s. 2d. over the past six
months), a net profit of £llO,OOO a year
is estimated on paid capital of £500,000
(in 2,000,000 ss. shares).
During the 12 weeks to August 16, with
50 p.c. recoveries, operating profits from
the treatment of 29,817 tons were £40,060
(subject to depreciation and taxation),
tending to confirm estimates. Mr. Bruhn
says: “Increased tonnage as projected
(the ultimate aim is 200,000 tons or more
a year) and an increase in the extraction
rate to 85 p.c. will, of course, materially
increase the profits, or, in the event of a
decline in world metal prices, tend to
offset any such fall.”
Scheelite, like wolfram, is an ore of
tungsten. Mass-production in manufac-
turing has greatly increased the demand
for tungsten in cutting steels and tungsten-
carbide drill tips, and there are many
other uses for the metal. As a strategic
mineral, 20 p.c. of the profits from
scheelite-mining are exempt from tax.
Raub Australian Gold, which has head-
quarters at Brisbane and operates at
Pahang (Malaya), has been offered a
Government rehabilitation loan of
2,850,000 Straits dollars (about
£A459,375). Interest is at 3 p.c. and loan
is repayable in 28 half-yearly instalments,
commencing January, 1951. Raub has a
claim outstanding against the Govern-
ment for material requisitioned by the
Army before the Japanese occupation ;
if this claim is not settled by December,
1948, the Government agrees to increase
the loan by $300,000. Raub’s directors
believe that the full amount of the loan
may be needed, and, since the co.’s articles
prohibit them from borrowing more than
the amount of nominal capital (£200,000,
all of which is issued and paid), a meeting
has been called to obtain shareholders’
permission.
* * * *
Bigger tonnage treated, increased pro-
duction, the opening-up of further rich
ore and larger reserves are the highlights
of North Kalgurli’s latest annual report.
In all 129,283 tons was treated, and gold
production at 42,386 fine oz. was up
87350 z. on previous year. Grade showed
little alteration, but costs rose lid., to
13s. 9d„ a ton. Ore in sight expanded
by 100,000 tons. Dividends aggregated
Is. 6d. a share, but the report warns that
increased working costs may prevent
maintenance of that distribution “until
the effects of the enlarged treatment plant
coming into operation begin to be felt.”
* * * *
Latest annual report of Gold Explora-
tion and Finance, big shareholder in
Western Mining Corporation and other
cos., speaks favorably of Western
Mining’s interests on Block 59, near Cool-
gardie (W.A.). Ore so far developed is
estimated at 90,000 tons, averaging
13.4dwt., and a large mining undertaking
is contemplated to work these interests.


ALWAYS
A SAFE CHOICE
As a stimulant for home use aAd a standby
for emergencies, Wolfe’s Schnapps is always
a safe, reliable choice. The
njime “Wolfe’s Schnapps” is
world-famous . . . and its good
qualities have been well known
in Australia for over 100
years. No other stimulant is
quite the same as
Schnapps—make sure
you always have a
bottle in the home.
WOLFE'S
c TZrnvmdhc
SCHNAPPS
Renowned for Generations
wa.i»s.ia
WOLFES
mmm
GEM
SPECIAL!
lx
G EM
cm
ißli
=sg(^
r
THIS
GEM SET
GEM RAZOR . 2 GEM BLADES
IN BAKELITE CASE —NOW FOR
FROM most Stores, Chemists
and Tobacconists.
GEM
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
“KEENER THAN EVER”
NOW 5 FOR 1/9
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Concert.
The centenary of an important com-
poser’s death is usually the occasion for
a festival crammed with his most im-
portant works and often extending over
a month. Felix Mendelssohn died in
Leipzig on November 4, 1847, and it
might have been expected that musical
Australia would have honored the cen-
tenary with a comprehensive programme
of his works. The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, which has been heard publicly
only once in the past three weeks, has yet
given no sign that it is aware of this
important event. The St. Andrews
Cathedral Choir did “St. Paul,” an im-
mature work that is in no way compar-
able to the “Elijah” which Mendelssohn
wrote a decade later, A few snippets
have been given over the A.B.C.’s stations.
But the centenary calls for more than
that.
A survey of Mendelssohn’s output in
his brief span of 38 years indicates that,
next to Mozart, he was the most versatile
of the great classical-romanticist school.
As a composer of choral works he ranks
with Handel; his songs, with and with-
out words, are infused with refinement,
beauty and that meticulousness' which
governed his life; chamber music he
greatly enriched —his Octet alone would
have made him famous; his “Scotch”
and “Italian” symphonies have the same
rhythmic grace and delicacy that marked
the symphonies of Haydn and Mozart
and the first two of Beethoven’s; his
organ music is the greatest since Bach ;
his violin concerto is in the repertory
of all great fiddlers, and his overtures —
“The Hebrides” (Fingal’s Cave), “Ruy
Bias,” “Melusina,” “Calm Sea and Pros-
perous Voyage,” and above all “The
Midsummer Night’s Dream” —are Men-
delssohn at his sparkling best.
Brisbane’s Twelfth Night Theatre made
a good feat of Helen Jerome’s drama-
tisation of “Jane Eyre.” The play loses
little in dialogue and characterisation,
and the leading roles of Jane Eyre and
Rochester were well played by Marjorie
Mant and Graham Macdonald. Between
them they carried the play—several of
the supporting players gave weak per-
formances. Poise, animation and youth-
fulness characterised Miss Mant’s sus-
tained interpretation; and Macdonald
gave life to a well-balanced and studied
characterisation of Rochester. Producer
Rhoda Felgate was responsible for the
effective stage settings.
The rhymes and rhythms of “Come of
Age” were so distressingly obvious in the
Sydney Theatre Guild’s presentation of
the Dane and Addinsell fantasy on Chat-
terton that this commentator was still
bouncing up and down in perfect time on
a ferry seat two hours afterwards. Verse
plays are one thing, but when rhyme
and metre send the players off into a
kind of .rhythmical gallop they might just
as well call in an orchestra and do the
thing in the best Gilsullivan tradition.
Graham Curran played a very tortured
Chatterton, and Cynthia Carroll was
slightly more animated as the twentieth-
century woman from whom the poet
gains experience of love when Death
grants him a brief reprieve after his
suicide.
Cabot and Dresden continue to be the
highlights on Melbourne Tivoli’s new
bill, “Stardusters,” and their act con-
tinues to impress all connoisseurs of the
dance outside highbrow circles. Present
commentator was overawed when Mr,
Ted Shawn did his whirling Dervish act
for five minutes without stopping. The
masculine member of the Cabot-Dresden
duo does the same thing, but carries a
girl as big as himself on his head at the
same time without showing the slightest
sign of physical discomfort. The present
opus, “direct from Broadway,!’ is a glitter-
ing torrent of Tivoli lovelies, fearsomely
arrayed in costly raiment and hats de-
signed by a freakish fashion expert.
Sibyl Bowan, “America’s First Lady of
Laughter,” is a bright and vivid person
who supplies a series of impressions of
important people ; she achieves a surpris-
ing variety of portraits with a minimum
of make-up.
Artbursts.
An exhibition of engravings and etch-
ings of the 16th to 18th centuries, in-
cluding “The Little Masters,” Lucas van
Leyden, Heinrich Aldegrever and George
Pencz, is on show at Joshua McClelland’s
print room, Melbourne. Most of them
got out to Australia in the eighties and
they form an extraordinarily varied and
interesting collection. Two studies of
beggars by Jan Joris van der Vliet, a
pupil of Rembrandt, show how a pupil
picks up the accent of his master, even
in subject-matter.
In Len Annois’s latest exhibition of
watercolors at George’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, almost everything has the same
texture, whether it is trees, rocks, sand,
sea or houses. Nothing seems to be
related, so that the eye rests nowhere and
wanders over the picture identifying facts
rather than feeling an impression. “A
View of Williamstown,” with boats and
wharves in the distance, is a more sen-
sitively rendered subject; so is “Camp-
belltown Bridge.”
Impressionism has a fling at the 29th
annual exhibition of the Twenty Mel-
bourne Painters at the Athenamm and it
gives more body to the show than is seen
at most current displays in Melbourne.
One of the most substantial examples is
“Spring Street,” by Polly Hurry, a lively
view of that thoroughfare with a tall
building in th& foreground. Alma
Figuerola has a free sketch of green grass,
a pool and gum-trees in “Natural Pat-
tern.” Max Meldrum has a portrait of
the Rev. T. M. Robinson which looks as
if a terrifically strong light has driven all
color out of the picture; his portrait of
a woman has more variety about it.
William Prater’s self-portrait looks un-
considered. From the point of view of
size, John Munro’s “Away from the
Factories” is the most important. It
looks like an attempt at a modern idyll
in the style of the late Rupert Bunny.
The factory gals, no doubt stiffened by
their toil, are relaxing on the grass in a
sylvan landscape which has gone stiff
with surprise at the invasion. Everything
is attenuated in the composition except
the shoes the girls are wearing. They are
shiny black shoes and whichever way one
looks one can’t get away from them.
“All God’s Chillun Got Shoes” would
have been a better title.
At the Films.
Four of Sydney’s first-release houses
are showing English fllms-two unam-
, ... „ 6 i
bilious comedies, which are delightful,
and two melodramas, which are not.
bmee Mr. Rank and others aspired to
greater things in the way of epics, tech-
nicolor extravagances, world markets
and what not, English films have shown
disturbing decline in quality. The early
“hand-made” productions, which were
generally based on good plays and books
and acted with some initiative by com-
petent stage players, are slowly disap-
pearing under the weight of “colossal
productions” and “stars” whose acting
seems to be confined to doing what the
director tells them. In short, to compete
with Hollywood, English studios are
adopting Hollywood’s methods and,
though they may produce quantity, they
are disastrous to quality.
, ,■ „ ~ . , . ~ ,
Leslie Howard s;son makes his first ap-
pearance m While the Sun Shines
(Sydney Victory), an excellent film ver-
sion of Terence Rattigan’s comedy. The
young man bears a striking resemblance
to his father in looks, intonation, gesture
and the promise of considerable acting
ability. The story is a light romantic
hotchpotch with Ronald Squires, Bar-
bara White and, particularly, Brenda
Bruce turning in admirable perform-
ances. In “This Man Is Mine,” another
diverting English comedy (Sydney State),
an unusually subdued Tom Walls demon-
strates commendable calm while his
daughter dumps her fiance and joins issue
with a young servicewoman for the
attentions of a Canadian soldier billeted
on the household for Christmas* Both
films are tiptop light entertainment.
In “Hungry Hill” (Sydney Esquire) the
Martins and the Coys appear to have
migrated to Ireland to carry on their
feuding under the names of Broderick
and Donovan. The Brodericks, their
fortune and their Coppermine are
soundly cursed by the Donovans,
and it takes an hour or two of
riots, brawls, births, deaths and tongue-
tied love affairs for the curse to
run its course. Hardly less melodramatic
is “Men of Two Worlds” (Sydney Em-
bassy), in which Eric Portman and
Phyllis Calvert appear to enjoy a running
fight in technicolor in their efforts to
supplant witch-doctory in the African
jungle with the benefits of medical
science. Britain can make it? You’ve
said it, guy—just like Hollywood.
Ron RandelTs first run in Hollywood
—“Bulldog Drummond at Bay”-«is show-
ing at Sydney State, and the actor carries
so much bellerdramatic deadweight in a
feverish hunt for some stolen jewellery
that it’s a miracle he ever passes the
fadeout clinch with Anita Louise. Ran-
dell plays Drumrhond in the same vein
as Ronald Colman, John Howard and
others have done—Hollywood long ago
reduced “Sapper’s” massive, genial beer-
drinking adventurer to the familiar smart,
smooth-talking detective of a thousand
and one films —and seems to have
modelled his performance largely on that
of Colman. It’s not a very promising
trial-run for Randell. Still, Errol Flynn
did no better for a start and he, at least, is
still in Hollywood,
This scribe’s hat tastes terrible, but he
dutifully chews on after viewing “Cross
Fire,” an excellent murder mystery at
Sydney Empire. Reason for the cady-
eating is that the film came from Holly-
wood producers, whose general run of
mysteries could be solved by even Wat-
son, In “Cross Fire” the audience is
brought to the stage where it needs a
gasper in the opening scene, and con-
tinues to do a fair shiver until the end,
despite the fact that Robert Young un-
earths the criminal fairly early with some
of the best detecting yet seen. The re-
mainder of the film consists of clever
trapping manoeuvres which, if copied by
the home-gardener, might even disclose
the guilty party in the case of his per-
forated lettuce plants.
Robert Young is at the receiving end
of the pother in “They Won’t Believe
Me” (Sydney Plaza), a kind of “Rake’s
Progress” in which an errant husband
flits from female to female, retaining
sufficient connection with his wife’s for-
tune to finance his philanderings. The
character is well sustained, the acting is
good and the story neatly manipulated
until a forced conclusion is tacked on to
it, no doubt to satisfy the Hays office
or anyone else who believes that virtue
must always be triumphant within the
running time of a film.


« Nev)
NOW AVAILABLE IN AUSTRALIA
n«*WIHOW
gU/W*
\C\
fßiocts
CA*
< < y, . V .•■ * \/% .. ?;
' - 4 f*-
§ /. ...... '
I
k
fy
<&i
'(A
ON
Ceo
«.o
to'"
i<*°
fCIAL
iCU
A GOOD GUN deserves a GOOD CARTRIDGE.
“ICIL SPECIAL” Cartridges long famous
for their fine shooting qualities are now avail-
able featuring the new STAR CRIMP.
PERFECT PATTERNS-REGULAR PER-
FOR MAN C E-WATERPROOF. Keep in touch
with your Ammunition dealer for supplies.
lAM-K2S
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
In the Debutante Stakes for fillies at Caul-
field punters were given a demonstration of
nearly all the better-known ways of doing their
cash in cold blood. Prior to the field getting
away which gave the starter all the trouble he
wanted for one day, the strongly-fancied
Cyndora was severely kicked and, on veterinary
order withdrawn after she’d been in the starter’s
hands’ When they did get away, quarter of an
hour behind time, Lady Caxton stayed at the
post. Shortly after the start the hot favorite,
Dollar Princess, and the outsider Siren Song
both fell; the promising Dollar Princess had
to be destroyed. Surviving this string of mis-
haps Harella (W. Briscoe), at 5 to 1, defeated
Head Mistress and Lady Sinclair, both at long
odds.
One way of doing it cold which punters were
spared in the Debutante, they were later to
suffer in the Caulfield Guineas, when the 5-to-4
favorite Chanak was beaten wholly through his
rider’s overconfidence. On the favorite, Breasley
always had the field safely covered, allowing
Denhoti to set the pace. With Denhoti weaken-
ing Breasley took Chanak to the front a fur-
long from home with the race apparently well
won —so much so that he eased his mount
nearly to a canter nearing the post. In a flash
Briscoe, on the 33-to-l chance Hororata, seized
his opportunity and shot up to win by a
half-head, Star Port being third after striking
interference. Stewards gave Breasley a month;
more painful just now than a three-months
term would be at other times of the year. He
apologised to the stable and the punters.
The bunch of Queensland jockeys at present
doing most of their riding in Sydney, including
Briscoe, Moore, Fordyce, Sellwood and Mc-
Growdie, are a particularly good lot. As others
before Breasley have discovered, they’re not to
be trifled with.
Of all the large crowd at Caulfield, the
trainer of Hororata must have been pretty
well unique in his reported opinion that but
for being interfered with in the straight his
horse would have won by more than a half-
head. When it comes to assessing prospects
for the Victoria Derby most people will assume
that Chanak won the Guineas and won well.
His toughest opponent should be the Sydney
colt Valiant Crown, who won the A.J.C. Derby
like a really good stayer.
The best Caulfield Cup trial noted in the
Herbert Power Handicap, run over the Cup
course, was that of Clatterbag in finishing the
closest of thirds—the only fancied runner to
be anywhere near the money. Four horses
went past the judge together, with the 33-to-l
chance Riot (R. Mornsey) squeezing through
a timely opening to just land the money ahead
of Sir Actor, Clatterbag and Sunrocks. Clatter-
bag had come with a strong run from a nearly
hopeless position rounding the turn. Riot car-
ried his Cup weight of 7st.; Clatterbag had
8.4 and drops to 7.5 for the Cup, which should
account for Riot at least.
Other Caulfield Cup hopes contested the mile
Toorak Handicap, in which Don Pedro (R.
Heather) gave further evidence of a return to
form by clocking 1.37| to down Commend
and Hiraji. Hiraji had ill luck, getting away
badly and being knocked off balance when
making his run in the straight. Hiraji has been
consistently unlucky throughout the past season,
but with any sort of a turn of the tide he
should make amends in the Caulfield Cup.
The hardest for him to beat should be Valiant
Crown, Columnist, Fresh Boy and Clatterbag,
possibly in that order. So for the Caulfield
Cup: Hiraji, 1; Valiant Crown, 2; Columnist,
3. And for a Cups double, Hiraji with Sweet
Chime.
In other events at Caulfield, Gay Archer
downed Big Fox and Poona in the Debutant
for colts and geldings, with Poona looking a
good ’un to follow in the first five-furlongs
event he contests. Divisions of the lola Welter
went to Constable and Nagation, both ridden
by Breasley. Sam Martin was given two months’
suspension for crossing over too sharply on
Gay Archer, which seemed a stiff penalty in
comparison with Breasley’s month for care-
lessly losing a race.
* * * ♦
Wednesday at Randwick saw a continuation
of the very rough trot Sydney punters have
been enduring for some weeks past. The only
at all satisfactory result was the success o'
Silent, one of three equal favorites for the mile
Suburban Handicap. In the Flight Stakes for
three-year-old fillies, hot favorite Shading was
just touched off at the end of the mile by
Nizam’s Ring, who will now proceed to Mel-
bourne for a crack at the Oaks.
Punters reckoned it was about the last straw
when Russia, at the surprisingly good odds of
8 to 1, downed Shannon and Columnist over
the 10 furlongs of the Craven Plate. Only
the three started, with Shannon at 3 to 1 on.
It must have been particularly galling for
D. Munro, who had been associated with most
of Russia’s successes in the past year or so,
but was, of course, on Shannon in the Craven.
J. Thompson rode Russia a beautiful race to
win by a half neck. Subsequently W. J. Smith
announced that it was Shannon’s last race in
Australia and he’s now off to America.
On Saturday, last day of the A.J.C. Spring
meeting, Russia again had only two opponents.
Silver Link and El Senor, in the Randwick
“ Steady , boy — I'll give you your head when we hit the straight !”
Plate of two miles. Most of the way Russia
simply toyed with them, though El Senor,
with Munro up, caused some anxiety by join-
ing Russia three furlongs from home and
hanging on quite tenaciously to the distance.
From that point Russia raced away to an eight-
lengths’ win from El Senor.
The Randwick Plate, run on Saturday for
the first time since Dashing Cavalier scored
in 1941, has been won by a host of good
horses. David recorded three wins and a
second in successive years; Pantheon, Phar
Lap and Dashing Cavalier each won it twice,
but the bun goes to old Lough Neagh, who
had two wins, a second (to Rogilla) and three
thirds between 1932-37. Conditions of the race
provide for a reduction in the prize if it is
not run in 3.35 or better —a fair margin against
the Randwick record of 3.201. Russia took
3.3 IF.
The 10-furlongs Clibborn Handicap for three-
year-olds went to the maiden performer Stamen
(N. Sell wood), first prize of £7OO plus sweep-
stakes being a good return on the 300 guineas
he cost as a yearling; he’s run sufficient minor
placings in the past to pay feed bills. Run-
ning along in second place early, Stamen took
charge at the leger and cleared out to an
eight-lengths win from Marine Victory and
Sovereign. One of Mildura’s first crop, Stamen
is a well-bred colt. Mildura’s performances
speak for themselves, as do those of his sire,
Manfred, both as a racehorse and a stud
stallion. Stamen’s dam Corolla was a Night
Raid mare, and his great-granddam D’Oro,
a sister to Desert Gold.
Heliofly (W. Cook) and Phalanx, a likely-
looking pair of youngsters from E. A. Under-
wood’s Warlaby Stud (Vic.), contested the finish
of the five-furlongs Canonbury Stakes. Phalanx,
raced by Underwood and trained by McCarten,
led them up till collared near the distance,
then hung on well to finish a length behind
Heliofly and well ahead of Foxzami. Heliofly,
raced by Underwood in partnership with
F P. Cruttenden, is trained by F. T. Cush
and had the advantage of a previous outing
in the Breeders’ Plate. Brown in color, he
is more the rangy type of colt, while Phalanx
(Dhoti-Battle Royal) is a beautifully solid,
nuggety little chestnut.
Benefited by her outing in the Gimcrack,
the Ajax filly Oasis (A. Ward) defeated Huarette
in the Widden Stakes, with Grey Nurse nosing
around in third place. The Chester Handicap
of six furlongs saw Earl Pentheus (E. Fordyce)
score very narrowly from Tahmoor and Raleigh,
while Dark Marne (J. Thompson) defeated
unlucky Homelcigh Dick and Buzz Oft in the
Final Handicap.
* * ♦ *
The Seven Fifty colt Sefiona, with R. Mad-
dock aboard, added the mile Queensland
Guineas to his excellent record. Starting a
warm favorite, he just headed Proud Monash,
with Prismatic third. As a two-year-old last
season Sefidna had 10 starts for four wins,
two seconds and a third.
* * » •
At Morphettville the S.A. Derby provided
an upset, with the favorite St. Don beaten
a short head by Basama, a Baccha Sakao colt
who was only lightly raced as a two-year-old.
• * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Novice: Lone Duke, 1; Pigeon Pie, 2;
Bluesaic, 3. Frank Walton Two-year-old:
Simpkin, 1; Oasis, 2; Huarette, 3. George
Hersman Stakes; Warspite, 1; Puffham, 2;
Tactician, 3. City Tattersall’s Club Cup:
Avalanche, 1; Buzz Off, 2; Invictus, 3. Walter
Baker Three-year-old: Slander, 1; Darius, 2;
Rabelais, 3. Club Welter: Indarra, 1; Tyne-
dale, 2; Tamasha, 3.
* * * *
The Wallabies beat South of Scotland
15-6, scoring only one try against the
redoubtable south Scottish defences.
South Scotlapd is the home of the seven-
a-side competitions, a game which breeds
a tough and unorthodox type of forward,
with tons of stamina.
Surprise was expressed in Sydney at
Col Windon’s' appointment as temporary
captain of the Wallabies, on the ground
that he had not been a club captain
here. But Windon captained good teams
in the Middle East, when he was with the
2/3rd Battalion, and had the reputation
of being both keen as mustard and a
relentless trainer, given to hunting his
players out of their roosts before day-
break.
* ♦ # ♦
Indians arrive:
The advance guard of 13 Indian cricketers
arrived last week to open the Australian tour
against Westralia next Friday, with four more
due later.
Lala Amarnath (captain), a fine all-rounder,
heavily smote Jardine’s bowlers at Amritsar
in 1934, scoring 109 (out of 264) for Southern
Punjab; two matches later he rattled up 118
in the first Test. In England in 1936 Amarnath,
after scoring 613 runs, av. 32.26 (including a
“double” of 130 and 107 v. Essex), and taking
36 wickets at 20.57, was “sent back to India
as a disciplinary measure” {Wiscten}. Amarnath
also had a crack at the Australian Services XI
bowlers at Delhi in 1945 and rattled up 163
(out of 401), followed with 64 and 50 in the
first Test, 0 and 48 in the second, and 113 and
9 in the third.
Others in the side likely to please Australian
crowds include Gul Mahomed and V. Hazare,
who hold a fourth-wicket world’s record of
577. K. S. Duleepsinhji is with the tourists
as guide, adviser and press correspondent.
* * * *
On a sodden Sydney Showground Scots
athlete David Watts won the G.P.S.
100yds. (10.75ec.), 220yds. (22.55ec.) and
440yds. (51.1 sec.),,the first triple-honors
winner in the senior events since 1892.
Watts’s burst in the “quarter” notched
sufficient points to give Scots (86) its
second win ; Shore (83), Grammar (79)
and Kings (78) came next. Starter Tas.
Ferguson summed up: “Watts is the
most promising all-round sprinter I
have seen for many years.”
* * sic *
Victoria is likely to exceed its quota of
£B5OO in the Commonwealth fund to
sponsor Australian athletes at next year’s
Olympic Games in London. Frank
Beaurepaire, Australia’s Olympic swim-
ming star of 20 years ago, has been
chasing Victorian sporting bodies extrac-
ting cheques for £4O0 —the estimated cost
per athlete.
* ♦ ♦ *
S.A. Football League had odd luck in
its gamble with rain in the final match.
It had insured for £5OO against 10 points
of rain between 8.30 and 12.30, and again
between 10.30 and 2.30 ; and it won both
—though with only 11 points and 12. Yet
it got also a £2683 gate, which is nearly
record for Adelaide. The whole day
was so wet that all racing was cancelled,
as well as all cricket and tennis.
* * * *
If clocking was right, Australian Cpl.
Clarrie Hayes, in the all-Japan athletic
championships', twice equalled Eddie
Tolan’s Olympic Games record of
10.3 sec. for the 100 metres. The world
record is 10.2 sec, Hayes also won the
200 metres by four yards easing up in
(according to possibly doubtful clocks)
21.55ec., and covered 22ft. 7in. for the
broad jump.
* * * *
London flyweight A 1 Peterson (7.13|)
made little impression on Melburnian
Spider Tymms (8.1) at Leichhardt, and
went down to a k.o. in the third round.
Inches shorter in height and reach, Peter-
son was on the attack all the time he
lasted, but he found Tymms’s long straight
left too effective for him. Billy Murphy
(9.8) outpointed Leo Ison (9.9|) in a
supporting 12-rounder.
* * * *
Norm Gent (9.9) fought a fine draw
against Roy Treasure at Melbourne
Stadium, a particularly game perform-
ance as Gent finished strongly despite a
broken hand, which he was reported to
have done in the third round. Bad hands
figure largely in the present low ebb of
Australian pugdom.


YOUR WILL
How your intentions may be
frustrated if you sell or change
your assets
A SSETS specifically left to indi-
viduals by Will are sometimes
changed, sold or given away by a
Testator in his lifetime, with the
result that those he wished to benefit
might not receive anything at all.
If you deal with any of your posses-
sions, pause to consider the effect on
your Will.
You might like an opportunity of
discussing the matter in confidence
with a Senior Officer of Perpetual
Trustee Company, or, if you prefer,
first for a copy of the helpful
and informative booklet "Your
Executor and Trustee” which de-
scribes the Company’s services and
its charges.
The Company has had wide experi-
ence in the management of Estates
of many different kinds.
Its service is human and friendly,
but always impartially efficient in
the best interests of the beneficiaries.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited,
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX:
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.; D. R. LYSAGHT •
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Executor and Trustee Agent under Power of Attorney
for Absentees, and others, Administrator, etc,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY”
Southern and Kaverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: F. T. B, Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth,
Western District Representative: J. I>. McElroy, 140 Eords Place, Orange.
ZC*/l€Ztf(Zmzf
w/u-
/
ZC* CZ&
T
t&.
Prices : 30/-, 37/6, and 44 f9
MABIE TODD & CO. £AUST.) PTY. LTD.
255 A George Street, Sydney
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The National Income
That accomplished twister and shifter
J. J. Dedman got loose for an hour or so
among figures appearing in the Budget
papers; and though he was quick enough
to see some of the inconsistencies of A.
W. Fadden’s economic arguments
(apparent, alas! to others at times), his
attempted rebuttal of Fadden’s justifiable
charges of uncollected taxes was specious
and really more typical of the fellow.
“The Meenister” who objects to workers
owning their own homes because owner-
ship would make them “little capitalists”
then proceeded to glorify the Govern-
ment’s administration, using as his basis
the national-income figures provided by
the Commonwealth Statistician.
The Bureau of Census and Statistics
gives the following details of its compu-
tation of the national income in the years
1938-39 and 1946-47:
1938-39. 1946-47.
£mil. £mil.
Wages and salaries .. .. 432 725
Pay, etc., armed forces .. 4 31
Company income .. .. 89 140
Govt, business surplus 33 32
Business, professional, farms 165 260
Institution income retained 16 23
Rent of homes ...... 59 69
Net rent and interest paid 5 —-15
National income .. .. 803 1265
The Statistician comments: “The total of
income produced in the community is
derived from two main forms —wages and
salaries, and the excess of income over
expenditure of companies, ' institutions
and individuals engaged in business,
farming or professions either as em-
ployers or on their own account. Wages
and salaries, together with pay and allow-
ances of members of the forces, have
increased by 73 p.c. from £436 million in
1938-39 to £756 million in 1946-47.
Other income produced has increased
over the same period by 39 p.c. from
£367 million to £509 million. Total in-
come has increased by 58 p.c. from £BO3
million to £1265 million.”
It was the greater increase (of 73 p.c.)
in wage and salary income as compared
with the 39 p.c. expansion in “other in-
come,” including that of farmers, small
and large businessmen and companies,
which pleased the socialistic Dedman so
much. The merits of business enterprise,
of the thrifty, of the industrious farmer or
the professional man meant little to this
cross-grained political humbug who is
accustomed to denying statements he has
made which have reacted against him.
The Minister for Reconstruction also
made a good deal out of the total mone-
tary increase in the national income,
shown in the table. Although trade-union
secretaries protest, and often with justice,
that the cost of living has risen far beyond
the Statistician’s index, Mr. Dedman used
an extremely low percentage in allowing
for the amount of price-inflation in the
1946-47 figure; and he gave no con-
sideration whatever to the taxation aspect.
The Statistician’s figure for the national
income is based on payments in connec-
tion with the production of “goods and
services,” and it includes taxes redistri-
buted in paying the civil service. But
taxes levied for all purposes, direct
and indirect, totalled £395 million in
1946-47, compared with £139 million in
1938-39. Pensions and other social-
service costs (not regarded as national
income) rose to £B4 million, com-
pared with £34 million before the war.
The producer of real national income
has a great deal of his proceeds taken
away from him in taxation, and these
proceeds are used to pay wages, etc., to
civil servants and others who do little to
increase the volume of desired goods and
services, though their pay figures as
national income in statistics.
Allowing for this boosting of the
national-income figure by items based on
payments rather than production, and
acknowledging that the actual increase in
prices and living costs has been not less
than 35 p.c.—wage rates in the manu-
facturing industries have risen by over
40 p.c. for males since 1938-39, and by
over 60 p.c. for females—the real growth
in the national income dver the past eight
years shrinks surprisingly.
It is positively certain that the real
national income, expressed in pre-war
values, is nothing like as large as the in-
flated official calculation. The Statis-
tician himself comments; “All the items
in the tables represent money values, and
hence the changes which appear arise not
only from changes in the physical volume
of production and the numbers engaged
in production, but also from changes in
prices. These price changes have not
affected all items in the tables uniformly,
and some reflect price increases to a much
greater extent than others.”
At the end of June this year it was
shown in statistics that total employment
in Australia, excluding rural workers and
domestics, was 1,649,400 persons, com-
pared with 1,293,100 in July, 1939. Of
the increase of 356,300, growth in civil
servants, Federal, State and local-Gov-
ernment (total 472,000), accounted for
122,200.
Under “full employment” we have 27
p.c. more people in jobs than in 1939,
but it is obvious from the foregoing
analysis of the national income that the
productivity of the country has increased
by no mfeans in the same proportion. It
is doubtful, in fact,. whether the total
volume of production has increased at all.
The Labor Government has succeeded,
in its policy of “full employment” that is
accompanied by heavy taxation and
semi-tdtalitarian controls, in redistributing,
the national income at the cost of an
almost general decline in living standards.
The only classes which appear to have
benefited to any great extent from Labor’s
policy have been the unemployed and
unemployabies. There are not enough
“wealthy” in Australia to cause much rise
in living standards of the masses even it
all their “wealth” were taken from them
and redistributed. Labor has long held
otherwise, but present statistics show the
truth of the position.
Any person who can find real satis-
faction in the national-income and Bud-
getary figures of Australia at the present
time is a fool or a knave. We have only
a paper-money “prosperity,” only a pay-
roll form of “full employment.”
The most significant feature of Aus-
tralia’s overseas trade during the first two
months of 1947-48 has been a big rise in
imports—from £33.8 million during the
same period of 1946-47 to £55.9 million.
The fact that exports have fallen from
£54.5 million to £45.8 million, leaving an
adverse balance of £lO million against a
favorable one of £20.7 million, for the
same period is not particularly impor-
tant: wool prices are higher than # 'last
year and the clip is not greatly altered
in size, whilst there is a record wheat
harvest in prospect, and merchandise ex-
ports up to December 31 next should be
greater than for the same part of 1946-
47. But the cost of imports is obviously
rising steeply, and even the apparent
buoyancy of our overseas income may
turn out to be little more real or bene-
ficial than the inflated incomes of wage-
earners internally. We may be needing
all our London funds within the next few
years.
* * * *
Bricks are still a major difficulty in
the Australian building industry. Pro-
duction of bricks, tiles and cement during
various periods is compared in this tabu-
lation of Commonwealth figures:
Monthly Bricks, Tiles, Cement,
Average. thousands, thousands, tons.
1937- .. .. 57,403 3023 71.000
1938- .. .. 60,046 3307 72,300
1943-44 .. .. 8.996 254 57,700
1946-47 .. .. 40,162 3036 75,000
Monthly
Total,
1947.
June .. .. 45,021 3093 84,300
July .. .. 51,703 3514 89,200
Though tile output is now higher than
before the war the supply is still not
adequate, mainly because of the number
of fibro-cement cottages being put up.
Cement itself is still scarce, and is par-
ticularly difficult to get in Sydney, despite
production that is greater than before
the war. Coalmining and steel figures
compare as follows:
Black Pig- Ingot
Monthly Coal, iron, Steel,
Average. ‘ tons.* tons. tons.
1937- .. 221,000 77,473 96,590
1938- .. 235,000 92,050 97,509
1941-42 .. 275,000 129,803 141,384
1943-44 .. 264,000 108,780 126,957
1946-47 .. 270,000 94,681 101,981
Monthly
Total,
1947.
June .. 309,000 ’ 93,653 96,276
July .. 106,940 104,179
* Weekly average.
The record outputs for 1941-42 have
never beep reached again, even though, in
individual months, coal production has
shown promising expansion. The de-
mand for coal still greatly exceeds
supply.
* ♦ * £
Large operations for a diminutive profit
are surveyed in the report of N.Z. Forest
Products, Ltd., for the year ended last
March, for the edification of its 70,000
shareholders, of whom 45,000 are Aus-
tralians. Profit from manufacturing was
£103,960, against £89,517 in 1946; net
profit was £37,872, against £28,268, on
paid capital of £6,203,065, and once again
investors, many of them purchasers of
£25 bonds 22 years ago, see the carrot of
dividends still out of reach. Sales of
wallboard, cases and timber are a record,
and would be higher still but for short-
ages of railway wagons, coal and electric
power; but the biggest gainer is M.L.’s
Government, a sleeping partner, which
netted another £50,000 in taxes, while
directors ground their teeth but couldn’t
do anything to get a fairer deal. Timber
output is climbing towards a goal of
60,000,000 feet a year when all mills
operate, and the company counts on Aus-
tralia buying a big share, mainly board
and pulp products. There is still a lot of
machinery and plant to arrive before trees
can be turned into money as fast as they
mature, and meantime the company is
pushing hardest to boost pulp output to
sell to a needy world. It is paying for
current projects by mobilising half a mil-
lion of liquid resources. Later it will
have to look around for another three
millions to carry through the programme
outlined by chairman David Henry in
August, in which paper production, is to
figure prominently.
* * * *
“E.C.F.” writes from Auckland:
For a generation New Zealand has been
groping its way towards a forestry goal that
isn’t clearly visible yet; but now the State
Forest Service wants to start a new gamble—a
vast' public forestry corporation. Says the
S.F.S.; “All previous conceptions of logging,
sawmilling and other means of utilising in-
digenous or exotic fo/ests must be abandoned.”
Inspired by socialistic ideas or leanings, it aims
to give the k.o. to “rugged individualism,” and
tells investors—tens of thousands of them Aus-
tralians—who have sunk fnillions of capital in
commercial forestry in M.L., mainly through
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., and Whakatane
Paper Mills, Ltd., that they’re backing the wrong
horse. If they listen to what the State propa-
gandists say, they will decide they ■ haven’t a
dog’s chance. But more likely they’ll treat
this as special pleading for a merger of private
and Government enterprise, in which it is hardly
likely that the Government contemplates taking
a back seat. Not a word about tax burdens
loaded on the backs of forestry concerns in
-their tender years, or of greedy State demands
while investors still wait for their first dividends.
The companies that have pioneered, against big
handicaps, are handed no credit by the State
Forest Service. But it isn’t above borrowing
their ideas when it talks of hungry overseas
markets, in Australia and the East, and even
as far off as Britain, for MX. exotic softwoods.
If there is wealth to be won in these fields it
is the commercial concerns that have laid the
basis, and if MX. has a great future as a
forestry country, again it’s these concerns that
have paved tbe way. Only today is tardy official-
dom beginning to wake up, now that hundreds
of thousands of acres of vigorous young pine
forests owned by private enterprise are almost
at the milling stage.


PACIFIC
BRITISH
B.C.P.A
Take your flying the easy way! If it’s business
you’re after when you fly to America, you’ll
arrive as fresh as a daisy . . . after a wonder-
ful 27-hour stay in Honolulu. Whether
your destination is San Francisco or Van-
couver, depend on B.C.P.A. for comfort,
cheery hospitality, and safe flying all the way!
SYDNEY - FIJI - CANTON ISLAND
HONOLULU - SAN FRANCISCO - VANCOUVER
Thrice Fortnightly from Sydney • Fortnightly from Auckland
See your local travel agent or write to
BRITISH COMMONWEALTH PACIFIC
AIRLINES
44 Martin Place, Sydney
81/U7
TO DEFEAT TYRE HEAT...
%
&
w
%
$
i
M
V A
m
M
wm
■jmcMS^sisi scoc<'
WITH RAYON CORD IN
I 9 3 z
First Rayon Cord tyres to give satisfactory service were
built by Goodyear in 1932 after years of research.
Rayon had greater natural resistance to internal tyre
heat than cotton cord. Goodyear found a way to make
rubber adhere to rayon, then devised new processes of
making suitable rayon. The enthusiasm of truck and
bps operators for the greater mileage they got with
rayon cord tyres proved that Goodyear pioneers
of pneumatic truck and bus tyres in 1917 had
achieved another outstanding “first”.
For 32 years it has been true that more tons are
hauled and more people ride on Goodyear tyres than
on any other make.
GOOD/YEAR
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
First CHOICE THE WORLD OVER
The Sharemarket
Those paying present prices for most
shares on the Stock Exchange are taking
a lons-rang" view. Yields are generally
low in the case of soundly-established
concerns, and often long-dated bonds give
a better immediate return.
But the market’s view is largely justi-
fiable in the case of industrial shares.
If we ever emerge from a regi-
mented economy and decide to use our
natural resources to the best advantage,
which implies a resurgence of private
enterprise, then ordinary shares in good
industrial stocks should reflect the bene-
fit. There are great development and in-
dustrial activity ahead of this country
if only we return to a sensible form of
political economy, and if trade-union in-
discipline gets its proper treatment from
tiie ordinary processes of law, democratic
government and public opinion.
The rise in all commodity prices and
costs that is resulting from Budgetary in-
flation, the fall in production per man-
hour and the increase in wages has de-
preciated the value of money. This also
justifies an increase in the price of many
ordinary shares, since it would cost a
great deal more nowadays to set up, say,
the factory of Bradford Cotton Mills,
Yarra Falls, Broken Hill Prop, or Associ-
ated and Pulp and Paper. The expense of
establishing shipping lines at present, too,
would be vastly greater than before the
war. Costs of machinery keep rising
overseas, and prices are still advancing
in this country. If inflating costs are any
indication of what capital values should
be, then plant, premises and stock —or
shares that are backed by the value of
such assets —should be rising in value, too.
This normal process of reasoning is to
an extent defeated at the present time by
arbitrary controls imposed on selling
prices and profits, and by trade-union
job-control in some industries. A 10 p.c.
dividend on a £1 share valued at 60s. in
the market is now of less value than a
10 p.c. div, four years ago, when the
share may have been at 40s. Price-
control and taxation are having the ten-
dency of keeping dividends at a fixed
level during a period of rising costs and
prices. The basic wage has risen from
795. to 106 s. a week since war began, but
returns to shareholders, on the average,
have fallen in that time, regardless of in-
creased living costs.
Where undistributed profits have been
ploughed back into a business, and the
capital employed has thus risen consider-
ably during the past 10 years, it may not
be possible or prudent under present
economic controls for the concern to
increase its distributions to shareholders
even in proportion to the growth in
shareholders’ funds. Yet if earnings
allowed to industry are to be at all equit-
able an increase in dividends should
be permitted on a greater scale even than
the ratio of capital expansion; that is,
there should be an allowance for the fall
in the earning-power of money (best ex-
pressed as an increase in living costs).
the same as in the case of Arbitration
Court wage awards.
Dividend rates are periodically the sub-
ject of political criticism, especially from
the direction of the Labor and Communist
parties, and sometimes from the bureau-
cracy. But if shareholders are to be
granted fair treatment under the present
or any subsequent Government, then the
depreciation of money values will have
to be considered in relation to ord.-share
dividends on pre-war capital investment.
As a matter of equity, many companies
should be allowed to recapitalise
their undertakings at something nearer
present-day values.
The Treasury has to date taken an
opposite view. It has, especially in more
recent months, demanded that a premium
be charged on new capital issues, the
premium having in most cases borne some
relation to the market value of the co.’s
scrip. It has managed to be inconsistent,
however, some concerns having, within
the premium-charging period, been
allowed unaccountably to make issues at
par in spite of the high price of their
shares in the market.
The premium charged adds to the capital
actually employed by the business and
makes a low, stable dividend worth to the
premium-paying shareholder even less
than it appears. This charging of share-
premiums may be fundamentally a part of
the Government’s cheap-money policy,
but it is likely to be a creator of political
mischief and economic confusion later
on. It calls for the payment of an even
higher dividend than that warranted by
the depreciation in the value of money,
since more capital is at work than is indi-
cated by the par value of the shares.
Most supporters of the sharemarket
appear to believe that Labor-socialism
will one day disappear from the political
horizon and that private enterprise will
have a great deal more scope than at
present, even though taxation will remain
higher than before the war if for no other
reason than that of the cost of “social
security.” It certainly seems unbeliev-
able that this community will remain in
its present self-frustrated state, or that
political parasitism and expediency on the
existing scale will be tolerated indefinitely.
The time must come, even if hard lessons
have to be learned in the meantime, when
the community will decide to make the
best of the manpower and material re-
sources of the country ; and in a country
like Australia private enterprise must be
given priority if speedy, efficient and
economical development is to be achieved.
Governments can be of vast assistance,
of course, but they need to take a broad
view of the situation, with the principles
of economic fairplay and national pro-
gress at heart.
“Ten per cent, more!” is the call to
Maoriland dairymen by W. E. Hale,
veteran leader of the dairy industry and
chairman of the Auckland Farmers’
Freezing Co., Ltd. If they lift outputs
this much and Australia does the same,
he says they’ll shorten food-rationing by
12 months for John Bull, who is apprecia-
tive of the comparatively modest prices
charged for N.Z. produce.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: In its surrounding sea of ti-tree
the Post-splitters’ Arms looked to Daw-
son, as he came upon it, like a couple of
old sheds that had been slammed up
against each other in a hurricane and
were held together by the weatherbeaten
verandah that leaned against its com-
bined front. Nevertheless, it offered
spirituous and fermented juices, some-
thing that tasted vaguely like food,
and what “W. McCullough, Prop.” de-
scribed to his new “guest” in the bar-room
as “the second-best bedroom”—there was
no third-best. Dawson sat for long over
wassail and desultory conversation, then
declared his intention to seek slumber.
Mac handed him a hurricane-lamp and
wished him a restful snooze. Thirty- two
seconds later Dawson rushed into the bar,
his eyes projecting like organ-stops. “Th-
there’s a big snake coiled up on the
pillow!” he burst out when he could
find his voice. “I nearly” “Ar,
that’ll be Porky, me pet ratter,” Mac said
casually. “I keep tellin’ the old swine to
keep orf pillers, ’cause washin’ water’s
scarce. Kick him down t’ the foot o’ the
bed — that’s his proper place.”
* * * *
“Gabba”: We had gone nine miles out
with the paymaster to Mick’s camp at
Tennant Creek Water Pumps. Mick
appeared from his tent —a huge, jovial
Territorian, dressed in grey flannel, baggy
cotton trousers, enormous dust-caked
boots and sweat-stained hat. Almost be-
fore introductions were over, Mick, quick
to seize this rare opportunity, launched
into a one-man conversation. “Yair, lived
in the Territory all me life. Born under
a big gum-tree up ’ere at Borroloola” (a
vague sweep of his hand disposing of
500 or so crow miles). “Y’ can still see
the gum-tree if y’ go up there,” he went
on, in a manner that suggested we might
care to stroll across the desert to it some
week-end. I told him that a Mr. Potter,
whom we’d met, seemed to know the
country pretty well. “Old Potter!” Mick
exclaimed. “I know him. Lives just up
here at Howley” (over 500 miles north).
“He’s a stranger f the Territory, though.
1 seen his outfit come inta this country —
on’y 12 years back. Y’ don’t want t’
lissen t’ him!”
* ♦ * *
“Metax”; A performance by two men
running a sawmill at Guildford Junction,
Tassie, will be regarded with much
chagrin and more horror by union advo-
cates of go-slow and “darg” applications.
Breaking their own logs, docking and
driving the engine, the pair cut 16,892
super, feet of myrtle in one week.
* * * *
Bridle-track”: Nardoo, a half-civilised
a j nd f rec l u ent punter, had been
robbed on his way home. When next
day he died of the injuries inflicted by
the robber the council of elders erected
a burial platform on a secluded spur in
the ranges. Chanting his ochred corpse
on to it, the myalls “christened” each of
a circle of stones they had placed under
tpe remains, each stone representing a
native, after which one warrior named
them after certain horses. Then they
squatted around the burial tree, waiting
silently and patiently. The sun blazed
down fiercely on Nardoo and the myalls,
and presently a drop of grease splashed
on to a stone. The grim old men arose,
and one of them stalked off eastwards,
loaded with spears. Days later he was
back at the camp emptying a bag contain-
ing—to the great delight of the tribe —
knives, axe-heads, bright cloths and gew-
gaws. He had sold his spears, backed
Ceremonial (the horse indicated by the
dripped-on stone), traded his winnings
for the junk-heap and brained the unlucky
murder suspect on his return journey.
* * * • *
“Zake”: I have heard it claimed that
the name for the “sods” munched by
bachelor outbackers derived from William
Dampier, which seems rather far-fetched,
though the redoubtable Dr. John Dun-
more Lang once supported the theory.
Damper nevertheless goes back quite a
while. Dr. Peter Cunningham, in his Two
Years in N.S.W.: 1825-26, wrote that
“Farm men usually make their flour into
flat cakes, which they call damper, and
cook them in the ashe§.” The quaint ex-
planation of Archbishop W, B. Ulla-
thorne, an early churchman, was that
the “heavy, unleavened cake” was so-
called because of the “damp” it put on
one’s digestion.
* ♦ * *
“Oliver Filter”: We, too, had a cook
given to earbashing anyone available
with long and colorful accounts of utterly
imaginary prowess and adventures (B.
1/10/’47). When the A.I.F. came to this
part of Westralia and camped on the
homestead, Cookie was soon in his
element. It didn’t take him long to
acquire sufficient information to pose as
a Middle East veteran, and he even
fooled some of the younger soldiers with
Ills second-hand tales of desert fighting
and Jerry dive-bombing. But he was
“I'Ve told him repeatedly about flying low!”
effectively silenced by a youngster from
Melbourne whose fresh face and clear
skin belied wounds and wisdom gained
in over a year of hard desert combat.
“Tobruk wasn’t bad,” Cookie told him
airily. “Syria was a pushover, of course.
But you should have been in Greece and
at Alamein. They were tough.” The
youngster from Melbourne feigned in-
terest: “I can well believe it,” he said,
“but, tell me, were you at the Siege of
Footscray?” “Was I!” said Cookie.
“That’s where I got my third stripe and
a lump of Jerry shrapnel I’ll carry till
my dying day!”
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: On Westralia’s- “Golden
Mile,” where hundreds of mines are in
operation at depths varying from 100 to
4000 feet and in a surface area of a
square mile, a miner may be working on
a level on his own, trucking or the like,
and hear through solid rock several drills
boring in the country around, above and
below him. The method that old-timers
swear by to locate the nearest of these
machines is to hold a nail lightly in the
teeth. Then, slowly turning the head, at
the same time pointing the nail up and
down, it will vibrate slightly when it is
pointing directly to a machine that is
drilling.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: “Maluka” (B.
6/8/’47) says the number of road horses
carried by top drovers up north ranges
from 50 to 80 and no drover takes more
horses than he requires. I entirely agree.
However, the instance I mentioned was
one of those invariable exceptions.
Twenty years ago drover Mick Sullivan
—a champion roughrider—used to over-
land horses, when seasons permitted,
across the Territory to the Kimberleys,
breaking-in and even packing water as
he went. The 1926 drought caught him
with 220 horses. “M.” also hastily ques-
tions my one-time boss for driving his
“outsize plant over the Julia Creek
downs —cracked, loose, ashy and covered
with Mitchell-grass tussocks.” Asa :
boss-drover myself since, I have at times
reluctantly had to put wagonettes over
worse country than that, and I know
those downs from mustering on Toorak
station, where earth-cracks used to bring
our horses down, sometimes on top of
us. But I must hold “M.”—Chief Boss,
as his monicker proclaims him —
to the facts recorded. Where I said
Sullivan “bumped” his mule - drawn
wagonette was along the Julia Creek-
Dalgonally stock - route, and in 1926,
after a million jumbucks tramped north
ahead of us, there wasn’t a decent
Mitchell-grass tussock anywhere, let
alone on that route. If this had not been
so I would never have gone droving up
the ruddy Gulf or met Mick Sullivan
with his mob of 220 road horses.
* * * *
“Blime”; Ted scowled at the verandah
wall, and declared immediate war on a
couple of resident swallows!. Grabbing
a towel, he chased the pests from door-
frame to rafters, and from rafters to
door-frame, till, getting mad, he went for
the rifle. It was a risky shot, but Ted
hoped for the best, missed, and left a
miniature geyser in the water-tank. Vow-
ing he’d beat the little cows or bust, he
laboriously removed the top boards
from window- and door-frames. The
swallows preened themselves indifferently
on the rafters. Up the rickety ladder
once more, Ted had almost completed
the job of ramming spare shirt and
pants, plus face towel and three pairs of
socks, in between rafter and iron, when
there came a threatening creak, a lurch,
and he landed spectacularly through the
front-room window. Words failed him
as, picking glass and splinters from his
anatomy, he leaned on the wall, breath-
ing hard. Came a step on the path.
“Hello, Ted, admiring yT swallows?”
called Bert, following the direction of
the other’s gaze. “Gripes, I dunno what
y’ keep them things around fT, even if
they are supposed to bring y’ good luck.”
* * »
“Barwon”: “Gravelsnatcher’s” oil-and-
water stove (B. 24/9/’47) worked on
somewhat different lines but with similar
effect to the “chooffers” which boiled our
laundry at First Tactical Air Force H.Q.
on Morotai. A small drum of petrol,
attached to a coconut-tree trunk about
4ft. from the ground, gravity fed the
juice through a quarter-inch copper pipe
which ended in a coil with the short open
end pointing up through its centre. To
get the thing going we turned on a thumb
tap at the tank to saturate the ground
round the coil, dropped a match in it
and waited a minute or two until the coil
was sufficiently heated to vaporise the thin
stream of petrol. It came through in a
series of angry “choofs” and bursts of
flame somewhat like an asthmatic blow-
lamp, but it boiled the water with spe?d
and required no attention save the initial
priming. The gadgets were fairly severe
on petrol supplies, but in a place where
thousands of 44gal. drums of the stuff
lay about it was considered as a cheap
form of insurance against derma-
titis, which lurked in damp, soiled cloth-
ing. We were inclined to laugh at the
Yanks, who were credited with establish-
ing coca-cola factories and laundries as
soon as they consolidated anew position,
but we finally agreed that, in the latter
at least, they were right on the beam.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: A dodge I learned in the
N.T. was the use of antbed (B. 1/10/’47)
for floors —there were many and various
formulas, ranging from antbed, charcoal
and fat to plain antbed and water. Some
years later, a crowd of us on a small
RA.A.F. station in n.-Westralia had
good reason to appreciate the lurk—it!
was sandy country, and the only thing
available to floor our tents was the mud
which the ants had industriously cemented
into their castle-like homes. We used to
blow the anthills down with gelignite
(looted from a nearby A.W.C. camp),
truck the stuff back to camp, pound it
to powder on the tent site and then
“puddle” it with water, using our hands
as improvised trowels. The floor thus
made set very hard, but had a tendency
to dust off every time it was swept. To
remedy that trouble, we wet the antbed
and covered it with hessian (old palliasses
slit lengthwise), which dried into the mud
like a crust. The resulting floors are
probably still there. Incidentally, when
blowing down the beds we often found
snakes—death adders and copperheads —
among the rubble. Anyone know if they
live with ants by arrangement, or if they
are just interlopers? I’d always under-
stood that an army of ants could polish
off Joe in double-quick time.
♦ * * *
“Anketell”: Dunno why Seventy-
fiver (B. 1/10/’47) had “considerable
trouble” poking a rabbit out of a log—
if a log is straight enough for poking
it’s also straight enough for winding
bunny out, which is a very simple opera-
tion. A length of fencing-wire with about
three feet of it twisted to form a rough
spiral is all that’s necessary. Push the
spiral end up the log and start winding
—the wire will soon twist itself into the
rabbit’s fur and the rest is easier than
falling out of bed.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were lounging on
the pub verandah at Wallendbeen when
the hummer drifted up. He commented
tritely on the weather and the state of
affairs and then asked, “You got any
tobacco, mate?” Mat fished a tin from
his pocket, looked into it, said, “Yairs,
thanks,” and put it back. Somewhat
staggered, the hummer inquired, “Ain’t y’
goin’t’ gimme one?” “One what?” “A
smoke.” “Y’ didn’t ask me for a smoke.”
“Er-~well, that’s what I meant.” “Then
whyinell don’t y’ say what y’ mean?”
Pause, while the hummer stole furtive
glances at me and bewildered ones at
Mat 4 He tried again. “How about that
smoke?” “What smoke?” “The smoke
I arst y’ for.” “Y’ didn’t ask me for any
smoke.” “Well, I’m arstin’ y’ now.”
“No you ain’t, you’re only tellin’ me y’re
askin’ me ; that ain’t askin’ me.” Another
pause. Then the hummer tried again.
“Whatta y’ want me t’ do—go down on
me knees t’ y’?” “I never asked y’ t’
do anythin’ like that.” “No, but —well,
anyway, what about that smoke?” “What
ruddy smoke?” “The one I arst y’ ”
Mat stood up and roared, “Don’t you
start that again! I tell y’ y’ never asked
for no smoke. I’m sick o’ blokes cornin’
t’ me an’ mumblin’ sideways an’ then
arguin’ the point about it. I’m” But
by then that hummer had disappeared.
That was how the rumor got around
Cootamundra district that a couple of
loonies were camped out at Wallendbeen.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: “There was a fight in
the town t’day,” announced Harry.
“Tommy Regan got full an’ started
chuckin’ his weight about. He picked
on the Dorsey brothers over that cattle
deal they had with his old man, an’
they bath took to him. After downin’
him they started sinkin’ the boot, an’
Dickie Rawson watched ’em do it without
liftin’ a finger.” “Gripes, there’ll be a
court case about this, won’t there?” Joe
asked. “Well, they reckoned the John
might be round later t’ ask a few ques-
tions,” Harry said. “But I don’t think
there’ll be anything come of it. Poor
old Tommy was bunged up an’ Weedin’
a bit, but he c’d still walk. Anyway, it
ain’t the John’s business t’ push ’em into
court t’ settle a friendly stoush between
neighbors.”
♦ * * *
“Plip”: In the days when honesty
beamed from all four faces of the post-
office clock, toilers coming in from South
Bombina for their afternoon pot used
to pause on the hill-top and anxiously
gaze down to calculate their drinking
time. Recently the southerly dial became
a liar and declared, with no tremble of
conscience in its hands, that the time was
five to six even when its brothers were
proclaiming midday. To the parched, the
shock produced “Strewths” which echo
through thp hills. Even when they have
been “had” more than once, that horrify-
ing greeting makes them shudder at the
thought. The clock-face itself, however,
may be forgiven; it is exonerated by the
postmaster, who admits that he brought
it to a standstill. As he is a naturalist and
poet while not stamping letters, and can
therefore be dismissed as “bats,” the mob
from “South” forgive him, too. But feel-
ing runs rather high about the swallow,
discovered by the postie to be nested
down on the back of the southerly dial
land laying an egg at that critical hour.
MAGPIES IN THE MOONLIGHT.
The magpies are wakeful, tonight, and no
wonder;
A round moon is riding the slopes of the
west.
She has been peering and parting asunder
The shadowy curtains that shelter their rest.
The vagabond cuckoo that vaguely has haunted
The hill, for the last time, has fluted and
flown.
Earth is transformed and the night is enchanted
And the moon and the magpies have made it
their own.
On uneven pauses and intervals threaded
The rounded notes rise and the wild chanties
fall
Until even I am a little lightheaded,
A little bemused with the charm of it all.
A flood of warm flower is rising, has risen
Already on apple and apricot tree,
And thought has flung open the doors of her
prison,
And half-frozen fancy may rise and go free.
Free as the air that their song is enriching,
Out through the fruit-blossom’s delicate froth,
Free of a world that the moon is bewitching,
Now either Arcady, Eden, or both.
Through a harlequin motley the night moths
are flitting,
And the black is so black and the white is
so white —
They are part of the pattern, so what is more
fitting,
How could the magpies be silent tonight?
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


ẃ
“ Joe'll be walking out on us once too often!”
anything from busted milking machines
or a windmill to an egg-beater or sewing
machine. The day before the annual
show at Bunglewingie he was called to
start Pearson’s tractor, which had back-
fired and sprained Alf’s wrist. Alf gave
him a ticket for the show. It was Tim’s
first show and, arriving early, he spent
most of the morning goggling at the
machinery on demonstration; then the
“ n hnt nhnt mice nhnt mice” nf the meiXY-
PbUt-phUt-miSS-pbUt-miSS OI tne .merry
go-round motor drew him irresistibly, it
wasn’t long before he was probing that
engine’s innards and coaxing it to run
, r-™ , r*
sweetly. That afternoon the cr
treated to the sight of Tim astride one
of the merry-go-round horses, his face
flushed, hair streaming wildly and coat
flapping as he rode the neddy to a stand-
still. “By cripes, I had a great day
yestiddy,” he confided to Bob next day.
.. Afte /j flxed the engine fr the merry-
go-round bloke he said I C’d have as many
free rides as I liked, and I never got orf
* sundown. _ It’s a pity them
shows am t held more n once a year.
*. * * *
“Goldie”: “Larry was a hatter at
Sleepy Bend,” related Ted. “He fos-
cirlrpH pnnnah alluvial from the
sicked enough alluvial stun irom me
gullies round about to earn a crust.
There was a yarn afloat that he’d bin
0 n a rich run of color and had a Stack
hidden away. When someone asked him
straightout Larry howled blue murder
, that J if h ? cau B ht 9 ear his plant
he d B° for em Wlth the shQtgun ; W f9’
that only made people cunouser about his
hidden gold, and tales got around that
had a fortune socked away. A couple
of hardbitten coves trappm thereabouts
B°t very interested an’ went scoutm m
the P ear his humpy. A fortnight
later Larj T remarked casually m the
township that they were tied up to a
fence down the river a bit—had been since
the before—an’ if anyone was mter-
ested ln rescuin’ ’em he wouldnt stand
in the ir way. Y’ see, they’d found Larry s
P lant all ri Bht, and when he caught em
the y was easy to handle, especially alter
the y’ d bin back once to °, 9 ften t( ? san ) pi !
the mountain dew hed bin producm at
#
t£ „ , . , „ <txT . „
1A Gmvel snatcher : Nor -west ( .
10 / 9 . 47 > excusab y m etror when he
credl . ts ° erb7 TlZi t tie
f ls ? 4or tbe YlY* f oast y ) L |. 4 .-, ,
belongs to a httle-known locality Doubt-
“ w Y ch Y, ai \. produC ! 3 E*' a
Nor ‘West, Ive never
accepted explanation. Of course the tide
™es with the moon Top spring occurs
S™ hdf after the change of the moon
™u s . if the change occurs on, say the
thll l Ya , , nth ’,&Ti, firs?
d de dn the fifth will be top spring. Seven
days later will be dead neap—the lowest
dc * e and m exactly another seven days
tbe next ckan 8 e moon you II
bave to P s P rm § again. But, since the
same moon operates to produce Fie-
mantle’s 2ft. 6in. rise, the explanation lies
elsewhere.
“Wippegong”i Old Paddy, kuown afar
f hi ability to hook a cod when no-
J getting a nibble, was
J., ki * the B side bar ’ B
“ , y , , . „,f.. „
watched him wi g ? that
Judging his time remmded Patrmk that
11 was T u - u 'j ?■’ . . ' , th
spent, that fish had been promised for the
morrow, that he, P., was the one man
who could supply that want, and that it
was time he was doing something about
it. Thus approached, Paddy downed a
couple more for the road and departed.
Unhurriedly, and by a rather erratic
course, he reached the Long Hole, and
settled down to serious fishing, but not
for Paddy himself would a fish nudge
the bait; so he rolled up and headed for
the Two Mile. Again he baited, cast,
settled himself comfortably and waited ;
but even Walton couldn’t catch fish
where there was none. Anyway Paddy’s
pride was fast going down before
an overpowering longing for sleep, so he
shifted again, this time to the long reach
below the black rock, which was one of
his favorite spots for a set line. He
baited liberally, gave a couple of deft
whirls and sent his line far into the
dusk, a soft swish assuring him that it
was somewhere about midstream ; then
he pegged it down and departed, mum-
bling, for the hut. The sun was climbing
high when Paddy stirred, and though
still slightly foggy he remembered they
“Take yer hat off while they're lowering the body!”
would be wanting his cod for dinner, and
set off to collect it. The accurate report-
ing of Paddy’s behaviour must cease
here, for on arrival at the river the sight
of a small object dangling a foot above
the water moved him to unseemly speech.
It was his sinker, hanging from the red-
gum branch into which he had hurled
it the night before.
sic # * *
“Goldie”: Tom and Charlie were bor-
ing a half-upper in the face of their long
tunnel. The ground was flinty and stub-
born, and Tom turned the drill and kept
it steady while Charlie swung forceful
hammer blows from close to the floor to
the head of the drill at waist height. With
every stroke Charlie gave a savage,
wheezy grunt which added to the rumb-
ling echoes along the drive; Tom, when
he changed over to the hammer half an
hour later, accompanied his blows with
a feeble hiss through his teeth. “Sissy
noise y’ make,” Charlie gibed him.
“Whyinfell don’t y’ grunt decently like a
man?” Tom wiped his perspiring fore-
head with the back of his hand. “Ain't
got the henergy,” he replied. “Put all I
got into sloggin’ the drill. Anyway, there
ain’t no sense me makin’ a helluva noise
like you do when I don’t need t’ pretend
I’m workin’.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: For the smallest area'
in which a man can be bushed, by which
I mean literally lose all sense of direction.
I’ll nominate a 2000 gal. tank. I was cemen-
ting the inside of one and, working around
the walls, I accidentally covered the
outlet to the tap. Simultaneously with this
discovery I found that I hadn’t the faintest
idea where it was, and, after a few futile
guesses, I tried to work it out, I knew
that the back of the house ran due east
and west, and that the tank was sited on
the west corner. But where was west? It
was a cloudy day without a breath of air,
and from the bottom of the tank I
couldn’t see a tree or any object by which
I could orient myself. At length, sup-
pressing a natural repugnance to cheat-
ing, I stood on the steps and looked over
the top.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Wiping his mouth, the
sleek-looking young man stepped off the
pub verandah and began to polish the
windscreen of his equally sleek-looking
car. Having thus impressed on the locals
that he was the owner, he leaned against
a post near a sturdy middle-aged man,
yawned and said “What a dump this is!”
His civic pride touched, the local man
scratched his thinning hair and protested
“Aw, I dunno” ; but the critic continued.
From the roads to the railway station,
the shops to the smithy, nothing found
favor with him. A healthy-looking
girl rode down the street on a chestnut
pony. “A warby-lookin’ piece,” the
visitor sneered', “could you imagine
her in a French swimsuit?” The older
man gave the subject careful considera-
tion and confessed that he could not.
“Her moke’s seen more birthdays than
good feeds too,” opined Sleeky. The
next second a rough palm spread on his
nose and sent him reeling backwards.
Twelve feet away he recovered his
balance, stood glaring a second, then
came in fighting. Six punches only
were thrown; the visitor threw the
second-last one. He was on his back on
the road he had condemned when the
girl he’d disparaged asked: “What did
you hit him for, Unc.?” Licking back
a loose piece of skin on the knuckle of
his right hand, Unc. gave his reason:
“He reckoned your dad starves his
horses.”
“C.E.”: Andy took a job with old
Samson, liked the sheep work and got
on well with the boss. When the several-
months drought broke Andy donned his
heavy military issue, went round the
ewes, and was whistling his way back
when he ran into Samson. “Gosh,
haven’t y’ got an oilskin?” The old bloke
stared at his hand concernedly. “Hang
it man, I can’t have y’ goin’ out like
that. Y’ll git soaked.” “Aw, I’ll be
right, boss,” Andy chirruped heartily.
“This coat’s good an’ tough. Don’t you
worry.” “But it’ll hold water like a
sponge,” Samson protested, running a
hand worriedly over Andy’s shoulders.
“Y’ll have t’ get an oilskin if y’ want t’
stay on. I’ll advance y’ a couple o’
weeks’ pay, an’ y’ c’n send t’night.” “Ar,
no thanks,” Andy laughed. “I won’t
catch cold or nuthin’.” “Whoin’ell
cares what y’ catch,” snorted Samson.
“I tell y’, y’ got t’ ’ave a oiler so the
rain’ll run orf y’ on t’ the paddick.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver walked into
the store, “Want a good strong pair o’
work in’ pants, George,” he told the
proprietor. “Y’got any?” George turned
to a shelf. “You’re darn’ lucky,” he
declared, tossing down a garment. “Just
got these in the other day. Not bad,
eh?” Seventyfiver turned them over.
“Gripes, we used t’ git this sort years
ago,” he grinned. “They was seven-’n’-six,
I remember, an’ ~ . ” Suddenly he
dropped the pants, shook his fingers, and
rubbed them on his coat-sleeve. “Yair,
only these ain’t such good quality,” he
continued. “Still, a man’s got t’ have a
pair. Y’ better wrap ’em up for us,
George.” The storeman ripped off a sheet
of paper. “Thirty-nine shillings they
are, and I bet you won’t get quality like
. . . hey, what’s the matter?” he broke off
as Seventyfiver again dropped the pants,
and blew on his fingers. “ ’Sawright,
George, ’sawright,” reassured the old
bloke, “It’s just that flamin’ little
white ticket on the back of ’em. Take
it off, will y’? The writin’ on the thing
burns me fingers!”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Had a big crossbred ewe in
the bunch that always went out of her
way to locate my old kelpie and either
spill him or course him to blazes. She
had him well and truly bluffed, so on
Herb’s advice I borrowed a dog of his
—a big solid fellow with white collar
and chest. He met the crossbred’s rush,
grabbed a faceful of neck wool and
woofed iff, rolling her over several times
before she cried finish and dashed for
the mob. Thinking she’d learned her
lesson, I returned Herb’s mong, but a
few days later the ewe was again scooting
my old bloke up the paddock in the
wrong direction. As she was in a bunch 1
yarded often, we had quite a bit of
trouble during the next few weeks; then
Herb rode over one day when I was
mustering. Some distance from the
others, the belligerent ewe caught sight
of his dog, threw her head up and
stamped, then turned quickly and streaked
for the shelter of the mob. Now I’m
wondering how it’ll work if I paint a
white collar and shirt on my black kelpie.
THE BIRD-LOVER.
He is the bird-lover and the solemn mender
Of shoes; in shop half-light endures the leer
Of a ceiling, leather’s irritation, taste
Of tacks and the petulant thump of a hammer’s
head
Beating above the tremor of his heart.
Around his feet the chips of leather fall
And tumble like crumbs he throws to wagtails,
sparrows,
And pardalotes in spring, when “week-end”
means
A closed shop door, an open heart, and the
songs
Of a valley miles away by zig-zag track,
A thought by a passion of 10ve... Maternal
trees
There brush from him the dungeon-dust that
smells i
Of drab routine. Cupped in the earth’s contours,
He drinks a thousand lyric syllables
To toast the day and sits upon a rock
Illumined with flecks of congealed sunset, feel-
ing
A legend warm his bones... Here he pounds
A mite of pointed steel into a shoe
Which, in its dark restored perfection, seems
To his dreaming eyes a moment like a bird
At rest, and he fondles it with rough hands.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID H. ROWBOTHAM.


"Power and Stamina
for the fouqh Jobs
V
SSSB «•
m
Full information
regarding deliv-
eries is avail-
able at our
branch house
showrooms or
from any of our
metropolitan dis-
tribntors or
country dealers.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (me. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES FACTORY: GEELONG
MTIS3—I2
i TRUCKS
RUGGED CONSTRUCTION
It takes International power and stamina
to do the tough jobs all the time—on time,
and at low operating costs. Internationals
give outstanding economical performance
in quarries, sand pits and building excava-
tions, on highway construction and other
heavy haulage jobs. Every International
is all-truck built. Choose an International
for your next truck investment. The full
range of the new “KB” Internationals
covers all haulage requirements—capaci-
ties up to ten tons.
Safe in his hands...
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique of thj A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged. that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con*
fidently at A.M.L. & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
ustralian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
AT SOUTHPORT,
QUEENSLAND
FOR SALE
The large, well-known residence, “Paradisia,” Narrow Neck, Pacific Highway.
Charming position on Nerang River and facing ocean beach, approx. 100 yds. distant.
Particularly well built, with tiled roof and on high brick foundations and piers.
Three large bedrooms, dressing-room, maid’s room, all with set-in basins. Large
drawing-room with fireplace; dining-room;’ both panelled and with wall-to-wall
carpets. Cocktail lounge, with refrigerator and sink. Tiled kitchen, with A.G.E.
elevated electric stove. Two bathrooms and W.Cs. upstairs, and electric hot-watei
service throughout. Spacious verandahs on three sides, all with superb views. Under
building all enclosed and concreted; space for three cars; laundry, gardener’s
quarters, shower-room, and W.C. Well furnished and in excellent order throughout.
Area, 2 roods 11.9 perches, all under well-kept lawns and gardens. Vacant possession
February, 1948. Could be readily converted to two very roomy flats
and more could be constructed underneath. Ample room for further
building in grounds without detracting from outlook. Price, Furnished,
£7BOO
Also, af
Coolangafta,
Queensland
Substantial brick house, built 1936, commanding magnificent
views, five minutes from surfing beach. Three bedrooms,
dining-room, sitting-room with fireplace; septic system; fully
furnished. Separate garage. Vacant possession
anticipated in approx, six months. Valued for
Nat. Sec, purposes at £2563. Price, Furnished,
£2500
Sole Selling Agents:
HARDING SMITH, ARMSTRONG & SPENCER
SOUTHPORT, QUEENSLAND.
Phones: Telegrams:
Southport 302 and 327. Harding Smith, Southport, Q.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Toxaemic Jaundice.
“Bogan Joe”: Investigations by the
Australian Wool Board have ..brought to
light some interesting facts. A form of
copper poisoning, it may occur spon-
taneously in various areas, and sporadic
outbreaks may occur in sheep which have
been moved from such areas somfe
months before.
Localities in which the disease is mainly
found are the Murray Valley, north-
eastern Victoria, central-western N.S.W.
along the Lachlan River. It is confined
virtually to British breeds and their
crosses, is mainly found in ewes, and
there is a close correlation between the
incidence of the disease and the age of
the sheep. Mortality may reach 30 p.c.
per annum in older ewes. There is also
a close correlation between the occur-
rence of deaths and the development of
nutritional stresses due to drying off of
pastures or suckling of lambs. Only
animals in a susceptible state are affected
and it depends on the quality of the
pasture, including its botanical composi-
tion, that has been consumed some
months before. The nutritional stresses
are mainly responsible for the “break-
down” or deaths, but not for the high
copper status which is really the diseased
state.
In N.S.W. the disease has occurred in
18 districts, and the largest number of
recorded deaths in any one year is 50.
On the central-western slopes it is associ-
ated with the high copper content of the
soil, which may be patchy in distribution ;
but in contrast with the Murray Valley
the copper content is not abnormaliy
high, and the reason for the high copper
status in the sheep on the Lachlan would
appear to be complex.
For the most part soils in the affected
areas are of the red-brown earths which
are acid in reaction. The perennial native
grasses are depleted, and under some
seasonal conditions the pasture consists
of almost entirely annual herbage. With
summer rains heliotrope, an annual her-
bage plant, grows abundantly. These
herbage plants have a high mineral con-
tent, including copper, and a high intake
of herbage favors the development of a
high copper status in the sheep. Whether
or not there is, in' addition, a lack of
mineral balance in the diet has not yet
been determined, but the incidence of the
disease is increased when the sheep have
had access to heliotrope, and the harmful
effect of the plant may be due to or
augmented by the presence in it of hepa-
totoxic substances other than copper.
Pasture improvement with sub. clover
does not help. Dominance of grasses in
pasture results in relatively safe grazing
for sheep in areas naturally affected.
Observations on experimental as well as
commercial flocks have shown a very
wide individual variation in copper con-
tent of the liver of apparently healthy
sheep. Sheep dying of the disease usually
show a high level of copper in the liver.
Iron sulphide, when added to diet under
controlled conditions, prevents the de-
velopment of high copper status even
when the intake of copper is three times
“She'll be broken in for the plough in a couple of days."
above normal levels, but the use of iron
sulphide in salt licks is not practicable
because of the very irregular consump-
tion by sheep and the variation in their
capacity to store copper in the liver. In-
vestigations are being continued.
• Fats from the Cooper.
“Archaps”: The value of the Cooper’s
Creek channel country in fattening cattle
was demonstrated at the Brisbane Show.
The Kibee Pastoral Co., Eromanga,
entered for the fat-cattle exhibit, and
after being walked 150 miles to trucks at
Quilpie and travelling 620 miles by rail
to Brisbane its beasts won second-prize,
beaten only by bullocks of the famous
Lyndley property, near Dalby on the
Downs.
The Kibee bullocks, which were straight
off the natural pastures, were sold at
auction at up to £2B ss. per head. Kibee
is on flooded country between Wilson and
Cooper Creeks, and adjoins Nockatunga
on the western side. This part of the
State was highly regarded as fattening
country by the Queensland Royal Com-
mission on the cattle industry, but will
never come fully into its own in the breed-
ing of commercial beef cattle until it gets
rail communication from Quilpie or
Winton. The proposed north-south
standard-gauge line would tap this dis-
trict, but the grazing industry considers
that the huge sum which it would cost
would be better spent on irrigation
schemes, and the. provision of one or two
rail links, to connect existing railway
systems.
Table Ducks.
“Mr.”: The best breeds are the heavies
—Aylesbury, Pekin, Aylesbury and Pekin
cross and the Muscovy. Muscovies are
good sitters and careful mothers, are quiet
and do not run about much. Shade is
essential, so is protection from the wind
during cold spells. Duck houses facing
north or north-east and open-fronted are
best in Victoria, with a ventilation space
in the back wall which can be closed
when necessary. If an outside run is
provided the house should allow two or
three square feet of floor space for each
duck. Keep the birds warm and com-
fortable at night.
Strongest ducklings come from eggs of
well-matured, vigorous stock. With the
heavy breeds one drake can be mated to
three to five ducks. Breeding can go on
throughout the year, but only approaching
Christmas are table birds in most demand.
Ducklings can be successfully hatched in
incubators or under hens; Muscovies
are usually hatched under the ducks.
When breeding from Muscovies place
the nest, containing a little sand and
litter, in a convenient position. The bird
will complete her own nest. Hatching
period for Muscovies is 35 days; 28 davt
for other breeds.
Biggest part of the ration is wet mash
Begin with a good chick mixture, and as
the birds grow use one of the following;
Ground wheat, 401 b.; ground hulled oats
201 b.; ground maize, 201 b.; bran, 101 b.;
dried buttermilk, 101 b. ; salt, £lb. Or
wheat, 30 ; oats, 10 ; maize, 40; bran, 10;
dried buttermilk, 5 ; meatmeal, 5; salt,
Or wheat, 50 ; oats, 30 ; bran, 10; meat-
meal, 10 ; salt, }. Give the birds plenty
of greenstuff. Pekins and Aylesburys can
be marketed at nine to 12 weeks weighing
b. to 61b. After 12 weeks the flesh
deteriorates and weight decreases. Mus-
covies are at their best between 14 and
16 weeks.
Carcass Appraisal.
“Myrrhee”: A service which ultimately
should benefit consumers is being offered
to pig-raisers by Victorian Department of
Agriculture and some leading bacon fac-
tories and meatworks. The service, which
will provide a pig-owner with a detailed
report on the carcass of any pig he may
care to nominate, will also give him an
idea of how good (or bad) his pig is from
the buyer’s viewpoint. Measurements of
fat and lean, body-length and other
features of economic importance will be
included. The department emphasises that
it’s not for the grading of all pig carcasses,
but rather for the farmer who desires to
check his pig-breeding and feeding prac-
tices with the quality of the finishing pro-
duct. This can be done by the farmer
selecting one average member of the herd
and nominating it for appraisal. The
pig will need to be appropriately branded
or earmarked for identification after
slaughter.
Bloat in Cattle.
“Sarina”: It is usually caused by feed-
ing on rain-soaked lucerne or other legu-
minous crops, or by a too abrupt change
from hard, dry feed to soft, green stuff.
Don’t let them fill themselves with water
after a meal of kurrajong or willow foli-
age. The trouble often appears among
driven cattle, which, when bedded down
after a long trek, turn eagerly to varie-
gated thistle and other toxic herbs.
There are many remedies; one that
will usually give relief is a drench con-
sisting of pure turpentine and aromatic
spirits of ammonia, one tablespoonful of
each, stirred up in a pint of raw linseed
oil. If the case is not serious, it often
suffices to put a gag in the animal’s
mouth, and let it get rid of the gas by
belching.
Bearing Failures.
“Endeeay”: Cast-iron and brass or
bronze are used in many bearings on farm
machinery and when adequately lubri-
cated give little trouble. Engines usually
have a soft anti-friction metal in the bear-
ings ; usually alloys of tin, lead and anti-
mony (white metals), cadmium and
nickel, cadmium and silver, a mixture of


For Sale.
LIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.: has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
cation in America. 2/6 pkt. ,
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders.
him on a course
of BAKKO Con-
dition Powders,
sign of Eczema
Constant scratching is often a
sign oi • Give him BAKKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
ẅ
w
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
%
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
Ifin. Ring Surcingle, l|in, best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephone: FA 5013.
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and A CERTAIN
KILLER
v-
K'Vv
n
Vj t/ffiP |'l'»
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere
BUZAGOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE; MA 6311.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
«SU
Q
A
m
M
m
Still the Same High Quality
TOP DOG
HEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR
&&BREKS TROUSERS & SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
copper and lead known as copper-lead
bearings and sometimes lead bronze.
They are all much softer than the shatt
and if overheated will melt and run out
they are made replaceable because it is
much easier to replace a bearing than a
shaft. Bearings are not everlasting but
have a long life, eventually needing re-
newal. Premature failures, of which the
causes are numerous, can be minimised
by care. There is little likelihood of a
bearing failure being due to the oil, but
it will fail if the oil supply fails either
by blockage of oil lines, or a drop in
sump level in a splash-feed engine.
Bearings are designed to operate up to
a set temperature ; if this is exceeded the
strength of the metal drops rapidly till
it will no longer support the load, the
metal is forced out of the bearing and a
loud knock is heard. Lack of oil will
cause rapid overheating and the metal
may actually melt.
A bearing is designed to carry more
than the normal pressures generated in
the engine operating under its designed
load. If the safety factor is exceeded the
metal will not be strong enough and it
may be pounded out. Carrying loads far
in excess of the designed load of the
vehicle will often do this ; overspeeding
in the lower gears has often caused bear-
ing failure, particularly when the lower
gears are used down hill to save the
brakes. Speed down hill in the lower
gears should never exceed the speed
normally employed up hill in that gear.
Prolonged and heavy “pinking” causes
higher pressures than the engine was
designed to take and bearing failure can
follow. The chance of failure is increased
if an engine is “hotted up” by raising the
compression ratio.
A Firelighter.
“Curlew”; In bracken country or for
lighting rushes and other rubbish matches
are too slow. There are kerosene
lighters, but I prefer motor tyre. It is in-
expensive, easily procurable, lasts well,
gives a strong hot flame that quickly gets
things well under way. A carrying cage
is necessary. Double several feet of No.
8 fencing wire. Twist the loop end for
about 2Aft., then bend the free ends to
make a cage about Sin. deep by about
6in. wide and Sin. across —large enough
to carry two pieces of tyre Sin. x Sin.
These will burn perhaps 20 minutes.
Burning ferns, one simply keeps going
straight ahead, prods the ground with
the lighter, swings it on two or three
yards and so on. If a woman is help-
ing, see that she swings the lighter clear
of any danger of setting fire to her
clothes. The precaution is even more im-
portant when using oil lighters. Oil is
apt to get on one’s clothes and be ignited
by the flames.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Leg lice can cause sheep
sufficient irritation to make them bite
their legs until they are raw. A mixture
of 2oz. of nicotine sulphate (40 p.c.) to a
pint of warm, soapy water is effective and,
for a small flock, may be applied by dip-
ping the feet in the solution, care being
taken not to stain the wool. For larger
flocks use a footbath filled at least six
inches deep with a dip which contains
derris root.
“Malo”: A N.S.W. tomato-grower
claims that he has produced from 101 b.
to 121 b. of good tomatoes from every
plant in his garden this season by atten-
tion to soil fertility, planting at correct
intervals, spraying regularly and keeping
the plants pruned and staked. Tomato
roots should be pruned and disinfected
before plants are transplanted.
“C.A.A.”: To beat disease and pests
in stone fruit trees, except apricots, spray
with Bordeaux mixture followed by dry-
mix sulphur lime at the rate of lib. to
4gal. of water one month afterwards and
thereafter at monthly intervals until about
six weeks before the fruit is picked. Dry-
mix sulphur lime is prepared by mixing
161 b. of fine sulphur, 81b. of hydrated
lime and 11b. of calcium caseinate to
every 100 gallons of water. Keep agitator
working continuously until all the spray
has been applied. Two sprayings of
Bordeaux mixture —at the pink-bud stage
and the pink-white stage —will deal with
pests on apricot trees. Peach-leaf curl
may be combated by spraying with the
same mixture at bud-bursting.
“Will C.”: Burning a formaldehyde
candle, obtained from a good chemist, in
the incubator will rid it of harmful
bacteria (B. 17/9/’47). Light the candle
and close the incubator door lightly.
After fumigation, the incubator should be
thoroughly aired before eggs are placed
in it.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department .)
How to grow w amt ah from seeds?
If seed has been kept dry throughout the
winter it may be sown in early spring. Seeds
require a well-drained sandy loam soil and
planting to a depth of about fin. in seedboxes.
Charcoal below the loam facilitates drainage.
Place the boxes so as to be protected from the
direct rays of the sun and out of the wind,
as the soil should never dry out. When seed-
lings have four or five leaves transfer to pots
or tins with similar well-drained soil and allow
to develop till suitably grown for transplanting
to permanent sites.
* * * *
A simple, method of scouring wool ?
The usual method is to pass the wool through
three or four bowls containing soap and alkali.
The water in the first bowl should be about
120 F., the second bowl can be slightly cooler,
and so on. In the first bowl use potash soap
at the rate of lib. to about 15 gallons of water
with carbonate of potash (alkali) at the rate
of 11b. to 50 gallons of water. The second
bowl needs only half soap strength with no
alkali, and if after this treatment there is still
some yolk present some soap will be required
in a third bowl, otherwise a rinsing in clean
water should suffice. While in the water the
wool should be moved gently, not squeezed
severely out, or it will mat together. It can
be passed through a wringer to assist in drying.
This treatment does not remove burns, so
“free” wool should be used for the purpose.


'THAT
V*
§
the
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against
difficulties and loss which might arise should your Executor die or
become incapacitated. By means of such a codicil you can name Burns
Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint Executor with your present appointee or,
if you wish, as sole Executor. In this way you gain positive assurance
of continuous and sound administration and are relieved of a serious
anxiety. The Company will willingly forward full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P, T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Dee.
Manager—E. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE m AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY ’
PHONE: 8U 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
w
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction o§
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
6uih mtircly In Australia by SEND FOB ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
■ ■ 1 SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ~
a
GUARANTEED TO
REMOVE FOULING
AND RUST.
Prevents Pitting,
This oil was used exclusively
by the American armed
Forces in the S.W.P.A.
Obtainable at Hardware and Sports Stores.
N.B.W. Agents:
W, S. FRIEND & CO. PTY., LTD.,
York Street, Sydney.
mm
HOW
\S
Aj bott
Alf aols
n
Anders
Sfrer
pfr a g*n
foster
r°frn
r ra batn
Gra nt
ray
S r f>a
H a “
*St soa ■
rlvnter
friand
*rwi n
j c kso n
Jztnes
T° htls on
J Ol)g«
Kelly
£: g nedy
fright
froib
frtie
ft Wr **ce
kg h
Mcr° nal( i
|Sf
fr tc heU
A‘T rs °n
tit"'
§S*n
°‘h°n° r
*e a<; " n
Scolds
fr^ett
frown
fr^pbeU
garter
rt ottlaa
r hot *so n
frmbull
frtner
°°Pe r
avi es
fe in »°n
upfrrns
avi ds
frwsofr
pfr le
lit tt
M
r **Bon
Nfr°
t'plls
frr>
N °rth
P, erts
fran
frsseli
Z c °tt
fra*
frotair
frith
v &tis
tx Sht
er Sus
w
on
°Oq
°Utl
m
L
;
Fourth Security Loan
' THESE PEOPLE
WILL LEARN "SOMETHING
TO THEIR ADVANTAGE”
More money in the years to come . . . additional income obtained without work . . •
comfort and security in the future—these advantages are available not only to the
people whose names are listed above, but to every Australian who reads this message
and follows its suggestions.
To-day, in Australia, with shortages of many kinds and black markets in scarce com-
modities still existing, there is more money about than there are goods to buy with it.
This creates an inflationary tendency which helps force up the cost of living and reduces
the benefits we should be gaining from the nation’s greater wealth.
Until production overhauls demand the only way out of these difficulties is to control
our spending carefully, to buy essential goods only, to pay no more than fixed legal
prices, to avoid extravagance and useless luxuries.
In this way inflation is successfully combated, industry recovers faster from wartime
dislocation, and you benefit by your regular savings out of income, building up substantial
funds for future use.
Invested in the Fourth Security Lban, your savings will further increase, at better than
bank rates of interest—giving you a handy addition to your income and helping to
secure your future.
FACTS ABOUT THE FOURTH SECURITY LOAN
The Fourth Security Loan opens on October 29: Bonds will be
available in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO,
paying interest at the rate of 3\% per annum fot 12 years. You
can make a fully-paid advance subscription at once, and interest
will be paid from the date your application is received by a bank.
Invest to-day through any Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
SAVE FOR SECURITY . . . MAKE AN ADVANCE SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
INTERNATIONAL QUIZ: AUSTRALIA v. GREAT BRITAIN...aII stations, Tuesday, October 28, at 8 p.m. South Aus., 7-30 p.m.
£45L.?.113
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERB acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 24E) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
herself ; about the past and the present;
and about the girl Tom had taken to the
pictures the night before. Her common
little voice cracked with earnestness, her
pale fluid hair flowed over her face half
concealing it, her scarlet nails scratched
a groove along the greasy counter.
‘ ‘ j T’S that I can’t trust you, Tom, that’s
I how it is. If it isn’t me you’re out
with it’s someone else! Anyone! That
girl now! What’cha do it for, Tom? She
was only a pick-up, wasn’t she? It’s
cheap-like—that’s what it is! Cheap!”
“Aw, shut up about it, honey, I was
only being kind!” Tom winked, and a
ripple of laughter ran over his face like
water over sand. “How about a plate
of fried? Hey, Joe, fried and chips.
Two!”
Connie ate her “fried” nibbling genteely
with her small mouth open only wide
enough to accommodate the blunted tip of
her fork. She was still offended.
Tom’s eyes slid away from his plate
and made a stealthy survey of the room.
A new face up against the stained wall
at the back. A real redhead, with a
green sweater, and a vivid red mouth,
and dark, vital eyes.
Connie was rambling on.
“Well, I got to get that cat, see?” Tom
said patiently. “Can’t go against Miss
Badger. I’d lose me place. Anyhow, I’ll
try what I can do—but don’t pin it on
me. I got to find the beast first —see?”
When he went out, shepherding Connie
politely through the doorway, the red-
head was smoking a cigarette, holding
it with her little finger crooked as if
she was holding a fancy cup of tea.
|\l night the moonlight was even
1 . brighter. Pedalling along the road
with the soft, swishing sound of the sea
m his ears, Tom told himself that it
would be a simple matter to spot any-
thing at all. He was tired after the
day s work, his arms ached—he had been
pruning an old cypress hedge up at
Taylor s—-and the feel of the gun slung
across his shoulders nagged him into an
irritated reminder of what he had to do.
He brooded, crouched over the handle-
bars as the bicycle slipped past the clump
bouses w ith their lighted windows,
ihe redhead had been standing at the
side door of Casey’s pub as he passed.
“Off to the pictures,” she had told
him after a little display of standoffish-
ness that he had quickly broken down.
, J '^ n ybow,” bad a dded quickly,
“I’ll be here afterwards. I work here —
in the dining-room.”
But would she be there? Standing
with a snood round her head among the
ivy-geranium? Tom turning into the sandy
lane that ran along Miss Badger’s fence
and opened into the bracken paddock
knew a creeping doubt. And there would
be Connie, sure as mud, sitting inside Joe’s
with her eyes fixed steadfastly on the
door. Connie as usual —waiting.
Propping his bicycle against a tea-tree
stump, Tom walked down the slope of
the paddock loosely carrying hi§ gun.
There were pines here, old, twisted, black
as ink in the moonlight, and his feet
treading the carpet of fallen needles made
no sound. For a moment he stood
letting the noises of the night seep into
him —the wash of the sea from beyond
the dark foreshore, the long - drawn
“shush - shush” of the pine - tops, the
mysterious crepitations of spindly stem
and branch around him.
Whistling under his breath, he went
further down the slope into a grassy
circle ringed by pines and shadowy box-
thorns. The whistle died on his lips.
Here in the centre of the circle, a moon-
lit area, the black cat crouched, a jet
stone, with pricked ears and a tail like
a brush.
Tom stood silent fingering his gun;
there was a ripple of movement in the
grass.
Stealthily a lean, tiger-striped tom was
withdrawing from the circle, limping.
And under the pines in the deepest
shadow were more cats, bodiless cats with
jewelled eyes, fires and scurries and
trembles of faint sound in the darkness.
“ ’Struth! ” breathed Tom.
THE gun hung limply in his hand. He
drew a great quivering breath and
loped over the grass. The black cat drew
back its ears, lashed its insolent tail from
side to side, and suddenly became un-
caring, fixed again in its rigid trance.
Tom stooped down and ran his fingers
along the cat’s broad back, feeling its
hard bone and muscle.
“You beauty!” he looked with a naive
wonder round the circle of ghostly eyes.
“All of ’em,” he muttered. /“All of ’em!
King of the Cats, you are!”
His fingers tingled. He felt queer, lost,
standing there in the circle of moon-
light, queer and lost, but somehow com-
fortable and at ease, at one with the
cat in a little sharp moment of under-
standing.
A wind blew through the pines. There
was a scuffle in the grass, and the black
cat leapt. Turning, Tom gave a little
uncontrollable laugh. A shame to shoot
him, a cat like that!
He wheeled his bicycle out into the
lane and swung his leg over the seat. It
wasn’t late yet. There’d be Connie
waiting at Joe’s and he could give her
the slip nice and early and get away.
Thinking of the redhead standing flat
against the ivy-geranium with a snood
over her head, he broke into a whistle
as he pedalled through the sand.


fi"
I MU '•
I
jf 'lf
/.VC,
-lA
ip'*i m
u -Ipifi
' im
t-
vm
-
VAUXHALL INN, GRANVILLE
THIS IS A TOOTH’S HOTEL
The first Vauxhall Inn was built in Sydney
over 90 years ago, and it served well the needs
of that time. Now, however, on the adjacent
site, is the modern Vauxhall Inn illustrated
above. Built under Tooth’s pre-war reconstruc-
tion policy, it is a fine example of suburban
hotel planning, meeting fully the requirements
w
of to-day and to-morrow. Plans for modernising
and, where necessary, rebuilding many other
N.S.W. hotels are already well advanced, and
this new reconstruction programme will be
commenced immediately the more urgent need
for housing has been met.
TOOTH
& CO. LIMITED, SYDNEY
MAKERS OF GOOD BEER SINCE 1835 T 1630
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
ŵ
“Fight much?”
“For three hours.”
“A struggle, eh?”
“Hands cut. Sweating, exhausted.
“You land it?”
“Yes, but nearly lost it/*
“What happened?”^
“Shark came along.”
“Big fellow?”
“Fourteen-footer.”
“Get the fish?”
“No.”
“Why not?” , £ ,
“I let out more line. Gave the fish
room to play.”
“Then?”
“Fish swallowed the shark.’
“Remarkable! ”
“Not at all. A big fish.”
“Gaff it?”
“Eventually.”
“How old do you reckon he is, boss ?”
“Get it home?”
“Yes ; in a truck.”
“Stuff and mount it?”
“No, left it hanging outside.”
“Disappear?”
“Completely.”
“Rats ate it, I s’pose?”
“No—cat.”
“But what about the rats?”
“They ate the cat!”
Oliver Filter.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Once she’s turned 30 a woman might as
well b'uy a canary.” —Weekly paper.
If she still expects any whistles.
•J* 9
“For sale: Indian, good appearance, £45.”
—Suburban paper.
Quite a decent scout, evidently.
•f 4* 4* 4*
Spellbound.
Serge Maiksmeskinich, high official in
the office of the Commissar for Political
Murders, was relaxing after a busy day.
Early in 1941 Serge had been in
Slovakia, organising the Slovak Com-
munist Party for its allotted task of
assisting the occupying German army
and spying on the populace. When
Adolf turned dog on his pal Joe and
the Commos had to go underground,
Serge’s life had been saved at great per-
sonal risk by Boris Borislov, the Slovak
patriot and resistance leader, who had
thereafter ceaselessly harried the Ger-
mans until hostilities ceased. When the
Red Army came in and the Communists
took charge Boris became Opposition
leader.
One day Borislov was observed
laughing with some friends. He, was im-
mediately arrested for anti-Democratic
conduct, and later charged with secretly
raising a Slovak Fascist army which
was to attack the U.S.S.R. Serge, reject-
ing all pleas for clemency, had Boris
liquidated. , . x .
Serge had been working hard lately,
for this last week had been one of terrific
pressure, with daily conferences at the
Kremlin. He might have been tempted
to growl about having to work a 78-hour
week, but he remembered that Bumpoff,
Deputy Commissar for Party Purges, had
once grumbled about long hours to his
daughter, who had reported him to the
N.K.V.D. Bumpoff now found that the
loss of a tongue and 10 fingers made the
uttering of a complaint a most difficult
process.
The buzz of activity at the Fiihrer’s
headquarters had covered a host of deci-
sions consequent on the new anti-
imperialist drive.
The Comintern had been given a face-
lift and been told it could now talk in
the open. Instructions had been given
to Communist parties in the effete pluto-
cracies to increase their sabotage and
espionage activities, at reduced rates
of pay.
The Stalin Youth Movement had been
launched. Membership was compulsory,
and all members had to swear to protect
personally the Red Fiihrer to the death.
They were required to do the goose-
step for two hours daily past huge photo-
graphs of the Fiihrer, chanting in unison
“Heilski, Joe!”
The Fiihrer himself had had written
out for him by Losovski a speech de-
manding more lehensraumski, and in-
veighing against the Western bloc for
endeavoring to encircle the Soviet. This
had been broadcast for home consumption
by Joe himself, for Joe’s natural squeaky
voice was too well-known to deceive
Soviet citizens. For the overseas broad-
cast a stand-in was used, and it was hoped
that his deep resonant voice would warn
the bloodthirsty self-styled Democracies
that the Fiihrer was indeed a he-man of
steel that not even vodka could rust.
The Kremlin, too, had that week dis-
covered that a Russian minority (a
stranded ballet company) was being per-
secuted ruthlessly by the aggressive, re-
actionary Principality of Monaco, and
that it might be found necessary to dis-
patch detachments .of the Red Army to
liberate their oppressed compatriots.
Several north-western European countries,
too, had been selected to be “protected”
against a possible invasion by the Fascist
forces of Ecuador.
Also, a Joyski Through Strength Move-
ment had been inaugurated. A feature
of this was that every Soviet citizen who
could perform a cruciform lift with five
anvils would be granted a week’s vacation
at Yalta on half .pay. Then there was
the decision to build a gigantic factory to
make a “people’s sled.” This was to cost
only 2500 roubles, which every citizen in
the U.S.S.R. had to pay immediately. The
project was to be incorporated in the
Eleventh Five-year Plan, and the first sled
was expected to roll off the assembly lines
in 1972. The factory was to be in the
heart of the Urals, where already the
great Red Revolution factory was turn-
ing out every day 200 of the famous atom
bomb, invention of Professor Nutski,
which, the size only of a loquat, was
capable of blasting a hole in the earth
10 miles in circumference.
All the week Serge had been absorb-
ing the new party line: The Soviet was
the one true Democracy ; the Imperialist
Western Powers were decadent imitations
of Hitler’s Germany; if they hadn’t
helped the Nazis the Red Army would
have defeated Germany years earlier. As
he now sat reading “Pravda” he was
becoming more convinced of the strong
democratic ideals of the Soviet.
He switched on the wireless, and was
just in time to hear a recording of a
fiery speech at U.H.O. by M. Vishinsky,
hero of many Moscow trials, which
threatened the stability of the Vishinsky
striped pants and morning suit.
As he listened to the thundering philip-
pic, the theme being the greatness of
Soviet democracy, a strange enthusiasm
enveloped Serge. Russia was a demo-
cracy. Wasn’t freedom of speech a great
democratic right? Didn’t he have that
right—the right to criticise the country’s
leaders?
Looking round to make certain his
wife wasn’t in the room, for he suspected
her of being a secret special N.K.V.D.
agent, he got up, thumped his chest and
said “ Joe!”
But Serge was stiff. He’d forgotten
dictaphones. His wife had planted one
•under the edge of the carpet.
They planted Serge next day, after he’d
died from violent lead poisoning.
80.
Splitting the Atom.
ẃ
P. M. LUSK.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Illegal Organisations?
Disclosure of the prodigious increase in
the number of telephones at Marx House,
Sydney, has caused some people to ask
why Marx House should be given tele-
phones which are vainly sought by ex-
servicemen. Others ask why Marx House
should exist at all. -
The name signifies that the Communist
party adheres to the revolutionary doc-
trines of Marx. Because of the legal con-
sequences of this fact, of which it is
fully aware, the “party” has adopted
sheep’s clothing and been at some pains
to hide its revolutionary teeth.
Nevertheless, it is obvious to every
lawyer who combines a knowledge of his
trade with a knowledge of the true aims,
methods and associations of the Com-
munist party that it is an illegal organisa-
tion.
At present the Communist party is not
an illegal organisation so declared. But
it is open to anybody to show, should
occasion arise for judicial proceedings,
that it is illegal. The evidentiary diffi-
culties are not so formidable as might
be supposed.
Of course if you send a case to counsel
for his opinion and you ask him to assume
a fact that a certain animal is pure
Merino, has a most natural bleat and
vegetarian habits you will get an opinion
that the animal in controversy is a sheep
and is fully qualified to be admitted into
any bona fide society of sheep. But it is
worth noting that it would be beyond
the power of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, which is authorised to legislate for
the peace, order and good government of
the country with respect to certain
matters, to legalise the admission into
the sheepfold of a revolutionary wolf in
whatever guise.— Miles Gregarius (Q.).
No Escape from Paradise
One of the humors of William White’s
Report on the Russians, the book that
the Communists tried to have suppressed
in the U.S.A., is the story of a number of
Communist enthusiasts from “capitalist”
countries who, in their first ecstasy on
entering Paradise, cast away their nation-
ality and became Soviet citizens.
Within 12 months most of them were
besieging the Embassies of their native
lands, imploring and begging for assist-
ance to escape from Russia.
Nothing could be done by the Em-
bassies, but the rulers of the Paradise soon
did something. Such supplications were
considered to be anti-Soviet activities, so
the supplicants found themselves in the
hands of the Ogpu and automatically
sentenced to 10 years in a political
prisoners’ camp without privilege of cor-
respondence.
The Kremlin, of course, dislikes such
incidents, which probably is why Stalin
and his brethren no longer encourage
enthusiasts from the outer world. —
W. C. C. (W.A.).
Dairyfarms
With new restrictions on newsprint
some daily papers-—which Usually boast
of their country-wide influence —are re-
ducing space given to land matters. They
would do better to increase any service
which assists the farmer even if it means
cutting out some of the blurb about
parasitic sport and fashion. There is
always a need for well-organised discus-
sion and investigation of farm problems,
particularly those of an economic,
marketing or political variety.
One matter urgently needing attention
is the fall in dairy production caused by
low profits and high taxes. A possible
solution might be the encouragement of
efficient and economical production by
giving taxation relief in direct proportion
to the degree of efficiency. Suppose, for
example, it cost Is. 4d. to produce a
gallon of milk, excluding the farmer’s
wage. His income from that milk is the
difference between Is. 4d. and the price
paid by the milk company. But if, instead
of the actual net income, the income for
taxing purposes were calculated at, say,
4d. a gallon of all milk supplied, each
farmer would then strive for lowest pos-
sible production costs in order to make
the maximum untaxed income.
Such a scheme might also cause an
expansion of dairying in good districts
where costs are low, and a reduction
where costs are high. As we are now
subsidising far too many ill-advised and
badly-established farms of all kinds, such
a sorting-out could only be to the national
advantage.— Aerogenes (N.S.W.).
Vandalism
Why do normally decent, law-abiding
people seem to lose all sense of decency
and civic pride when they become
“tourists”?
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.), for instance,
is a popular holiday resort, and among
the things that all tourists “must” see
there is the Church of St. Thomas. It is
one of the oldest churches in Australia
(built, 1824) and stands, austerely beauti-
ful,. on a hill behind the town. The
fittings and ceilings are of solid cedar, and
the church is full of interesting historical
objects and data. It is truly a place to
be preserved and treasured.
“Tourists,” however, have scratched
names in the beautiful wood of the pews
and all original fittings and portable
furniture have been “souvenired.” The
rector was startled one day to find a
girl sitting on the altar and being
“snapped.” Vandalism became so bad
that the church is now locked, except at
certain hours when it may be inspected
under the eye of the caretaker. Signs
placed here and there ask visitors to re-
member that their grandchildren will find
the church just as interesting as they do
now.
Litter and rubbish are synonymous
with the tourist trade, but desecration of
things of both sacred and - historical
importance is surely the last straw.—
D. R. I. (N.S.W.).
Nationalise Racing
Why not? The sport is at present a
purely capitalistic concern, exploiting the
many for the enrichment of a few. It
employs a vast number of men and
absorbs huge sums of money in the up-
keep of establishments which should be-
long to the people who contribute lavishly
to their support.
Of all forms of private enterprise, rac-
ing is the most anti-social. It works its
“operatives” to the extreme limit of
equine and human endurance. The stop-
watch, the spur, the whip and monetary
incentives are all used to obtain greater
effort and better results, regardless of
life and limb. Workers who excel are
loaded with weights and handicapped,
but are still expected to increase their
speed. There is no place in the soulless
scheme for average ability or the average
man.
Under Government control these
abuses could be eliminated. Sweating
could be stopped. Fair standards could
be set up and safety measures enforced
to replace the profit motive and exploita-
tion. “Every avenue” could be “ex-
plored,” leading to a more equitable dis-
tribution to the public of the money in-
vested.
A referendum on the question would
show how sincere and widespread is the
demafid for socialistic principles in the
conduct of our most important national
industry.—Punter (S.A.).
“Ward’s Wards”
“Three months’ furlough each year”
and “profits of plantations” which per-
mitted it (B. 17/9/’47) are figments of
“R.W.’s” imagination. The most liberal
furlough any N.G. white ever enjoyed
was three months each two years. He
needed every day of it to recuperate and
fit himself for another bout of work.
Many, after living on tinned foods and
saturated with malaria, spent their leave
in the hands of doctors. Others, if well
enough, hit the high spots, lived at a
millionaire rate for a month or so, and
went back broke. These no doubt were
the gentry whose names graced the social
pages of the flapper press.
And what if a tennis team, or more
likely a combined tennis-cricket team, did
fly from Wau to Port Moresby? Port
Moresby would reciprocate 12 months
later. And why shouldn’t they? It was
no dearer to fly and none could afford
the time to travel by boat.
As for profits, planters smile bitterly
when they remember that for at least
12 of the last 20 pre-war years the market
prices of rubber and copra brought little
or no profit, and in several years did
not cover the bare cost of production.
In Papua few owners, company or in-
dividual, weathered the struggle to keep
going. Most were forced out or became
tied to banks or storekeepers. One small
local company which commenced plant-
ing coconuts in 1916 brought a large area
into production with its own capital.
Because the cost of production exceeded
the long-continued low market price of
copra it was forced to obtain a bank
overdraft; on top of that it had to borrow
from its shareholders on debentures and
get extended credit from a storekeeper;
then finally to reconstruct by reducing
share values from £1 to 13s. 6d. Fortu-
nately, since the war ended, the selling
price of copra has been profitable and
the company was enabled to pay its
patient shareholders their first div. in
1946. •
Looking back over 40 years I cannot
count more than five individuals in Papua
who made any money worth talking
about, and they were not planters.
Conditions covering every phase of
native employment have always been pre-
scribed by law and rigidly enforced. The
“3d. per day and keep” is the 7s. 6d.
per month minimum prescribed in the
Mandated Territory. The Army adopted
that minimum for its native conscripts
when it took over. When the Army
Minister publicised a “New Deal for the
Fuzzy Wuzzies” after the war, it was sug-
gested that he needn’t wait so long to
begin his benefactions. Soon after the
minimum was stretched 2s. 6d. to accord
with the pre-war Papuan minimum of
10s. The minimum fixed by law today is
155., which, measured in goods the native
“Which one of you blokes called me a 'mug copper'?”
wants, would certainly not buy more than
10s. did in 1939.
Many earn more than the minimum,
but that was always so. Six pounds a
month and keep was not uncommon, and
many received more.—E. C. H. (Q.).
Those who worked under the old order
are unanimous in their assertions that
“before wartime ’e more better.” There
is no question of the chosen few being
given the right to exploit the natives,
who are worse off now that their con-
ditions have been “bettered.” The value
of the shilling has dropped out of- all
proportion to the increase in wages.
“R.W.” can find a parallel in this coun-
try.
The only use the native has for his
higher wages is to gamble them on cards.
That may not seem a very serious offence
to southerners, but it is disastrous for
the native. It has been the cause of
murder or riots in more than one part
of the Territory, including my own camp.
And why condemn those who flew
from Wau to Moresby to play tennis?
Mainlanders who fly from Brisbane to
Melbourne for the Cup aren’t accused
of exploiting anyone.
“Spoiling things for the planters when
they returned” is a ridiculous statement.
The majority of planters never left N.G.
They fought for the country and many
met their deaths at the hands of the in-
vaders. They work under irksome and
often insurmountable difficulties. They
suffer shortage of skilled labor, for which
they pay £2 to £lO per month and
keep. Incidentally, a boy on only 15s.
per month wages costs his employer
about £7O a year in incidentals —housing,
medical attention, food, repatriation to
his home village, etc.
Then take the case of the copra-
planter, the “big capitalist” of the islands.
He produces copra which Mr. Ward’s
Production Control Board buys f.o.b. at
Rabaul for £2B per ton. That was the
price in March, 1947. The world copra
price at that time was £3B-£7l per ton.
N.G. copra arrived at Sydney to, find
that it was worth £36 per ton. The costs
of production, for “R.W.’s” benefit, are
£l7 per ton.
If Mr. Ward is sincere in his aim to
assist the natives, he should look to the
prohibitive cost of food for them. He
could ask Mr. Chifley to lift the export
tax on rice and wheatmeal from Aus-
tralia. Just before I left the Territory,
the R.P.C. Fas borrowing food from me
to feed the constabulary, and the 0.1. C.
Police had to issue two coconuts per day
in lieu of rice. Mr. Ward’s sympathy
for his black brothers didn’t relieve their
empty bellies. We fed our employees in
spite of the apathy of Commonwealth
Ministers.— Momokan (Q.).
Motor-cycle Accidents
A cousin of mine, out for a trial spin
on a borrowed motor-cycle, suddenly
put on speed at a bend and ended up in
a fence with a broken jaw and a battered
face. The son of a friend, on a new
machine, went for a spin on a bush track
and, instead of slo.wing down and stopping
when a wire gate came into view, accele-
rated and tore straight into it. Some
people left the footpath to board a city-
bound tram, only to be mown down by
a young man on a motor-cycle who
speeded up as he drew near instead of
slowing. Similar cases could be quoted
by the dozen.
Such behavior can hardly be delib-
erate, so the reasons must lie with the
machine. The most probable cause of
the trouble is in controls which work one
way in some machines and the opposite
way in others.
To decrease the toll of the roads, abso-
lute uniformity of motor-cycle controls
should be enforced. Anyone who wit-
nessed what I saw when that motor-cycle
suddenly speeded up and hurtled through
the unsuspecting group of tram pas-
sengers, leaving a trail of bodies which
included that of the rider, would realise
that the matter is a very serious one. —
Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Two Settlers
In May, 1947, there was a land ballot
in Queensland for two blocks in some
of the best grazing land in the State.
They had a carrying capacity of
approximately 4000 sheep and were a
very good investment. The two success-
ful applicants had long service records
and were the type of men who should
have got the blocks —as they did. One
was a tanksinker, the other a stationhand.
Both men were on their blocks within
a fortnight of the ballot and each applied
to the State Agricultural Bank for £5OOO
with which to start work. Their requests
were very reasonable considering the high
price of stock and building material, but,
after waiting nearly four months, they
were told that the bank would advance
£2340 and £2330 respectively.
One man, when applying, put down
£3OO for a house —anyone with any
knowledge of building knows what sort
of a house would be built for that amount.
But the bank replied that it would
advance £l5O, then send out an inspector,
and, if he were satisfied, advance the
other £l5O.
The other applicant, who has his own
tank-sinking plant, applied for money to
put down two tanks on the recommenda-
tion of a station manager with intimate
knowledge of the country. Refused—
the Lands Office advised that there were
ample watering facilities already.
Fed up, the two would-be pastoralists
took their cases to trading banks —the
’Wales and National —and within a few
hours were told that the money would
be available.
Unfortunately, during the delay there
has been another rise in the price of wool
and that, of course, has lifted the price
of sheep. With the good rain which has
recently fallen nobody wants to sell. The
same applies to agistment—when the
blocks were drawn the two Diggers could
have got agistment stock on at a good
price, but today everyone has teed and
agistment is hard to get.
There are probably better arguments
against “nationalising” banks, but the two
Diggers have all the arguments they needj
—C. M. N. (Q.).


Property Sales
About the time that report on Sydney J
Land Sales Control (B. 1/10/’47) was
tabled, a furnished" house was put up for
sale in Sydney. The auction-room was ■
packed, and the auctioneer had hardly
delivered himself of the usual what am
I bid?” before a dozen voices screeched
amounts far in excess of a fair market
price for the property.
The auctioneer stopped the bidding,
saying that there was always a chance
that the Treasury would give consent to
a high-sale figure and that the successful ;
bidder would need to pay a 25 p.c. .
deposit on signing the contract.
On they went, and over £12,000 was
bid. The auctioneer took advantage of
a lull to knock the property down to die
present tenant. A feature of the bidding
from £7OOO onwards was the number of
foreigners whose guttural tones advanced
the bids by £5OO and £lOOO at a time.
Under the present Land Sales Control
regulations, persons are enabled to bid
to fantastic figures, secure in the know-
ledge that on judgment day the price will
be adjusted to what the ruling official
considers a fair market value.
Because a deposit of 25 per cent, must
be paid on signing the contract, the
ordinary man is not in the race at these
“sales” —he can’t possibly pay as a de-
posit an amount which will probably ex-
ceed the final contract price for the
property.
In this particular case the auctioneer
did the right thing, since the present
tenant has as much right to buy the pro-
perty as the next man. But had he
been unable to find the necessary deposit,
the property would undoubtedly have
gone to one of the foreigners, on their
own admission prepared to go on bidding
for the rest of the morning. The ultimate
result would have been the eviction of an
Australian to make room for a foreigner.
This sort of thing is happening every
day, and will continue to happen as long
as the iniquitous and inept regulations re-
main in force.
Sales reports appearing in the week-
end press give an entirely wrong impres-
sion of current values because so many
of the properties listed are sold at
auction under the foregoing condi-
tions. Although prices are later adjusted,
no public announcement is ever made.
It should be clear that until the regu-
lations are removed the property market
will remain largely in the hands of the
“black” (because the seller cannot legally
obtain his price for his property) or in
the hands of the rich (often recent arrivals
of obscure origin), because the local home
seeker is unable to compete with the
weight of shekels required for this initial
shakedown. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Free Medicine
As a practising doctor I use the Aus-
tralian Pharmaceutical Formulary (B.
24/9/’47) when I can, but most of the
prescriptions which over 40 years of ex-
perience have taught me are best for my
patients are not in the A.P.F.
During years as a hospital doctor I
was continually up against the red-tape
hospital pharmacopoeia and was com-
pelled to put up many a hard fight to get
what was best for the patient.
During other years as an army M.O. I
had similar difficulty, but I found, par-
ticularly in the last war, that the heads
of the Medical Services in the Army and
Air Force were imbued with the desire to
help, and a good case almost invariably
received all possible help.
The sponsors of Free Medicine, how-
ever, are too strongly tied to the prin-
ciples of bureaucracy and are too ignor-
ant of the problems and requirements of
efficient medical practice to permit of
any hope for satisfactory consideration
from them.
By all means let us have a Formulary,
but it is not in the interests of good
medical practice to restrict the doctor to
its use. No committee can be devised,
medical or lay or both, which would be
capable of compiling a formulary that
could be satisfactory in practical medicine.
—M. B. (Q.).
A 30-hour Week?
Most of the people I know who were
in the “lower middle income” group be-
fore the war —and living comfortably—
are now battling to retain some semblance
of their accustomed living standards.
Most of them have had salary in-
creases, but they’re all still flat out to
keep up with the increased cost of exist-
ing. Many of them have resorted to
odd-jobbing, backyard work and part-
time employment to supplement the
weekly pay envelope.
Their troubles will soon be over, how-
ever, when Labor attains its latest objec-
tive —the 30-hour week. With a six-hour
day, industry will then have to work four
shifts in 24 hours, an arrangement that
will mean a tremendous increase in pro-
duction costs. But there’ll be nothing
to worry about, because, with four shifts
a day instead of three, we’ll all be able
to work two shifts in 24 hours. And we’ll
have to do it to keep up with living costs.
It’s not as ridiculous as it sounds
many are doing something like it now
and I’ll bet my bowyangs that a 30-hour
week will mean an unofficial 12-hour day.
—Anketell (Vic.).
Those Marine Engineers
When a ship enters port it is the prac-
tice to dispense with the usual sea-
watches in favor of day work. This was
the case with the Corio, but one fireman
seemed to be of the opinion that he could
come and go as he pleased. In the end
he was discharged.
The fireman appealed to one of those
useless commissions set up by “Labor.”
When the commission gave him authority
to go back the engineers refused to sail
with him. The commission suspended
them, in effect denying them the right of
following their calling in any ship under
Australian articles.
When discharged from the Corio the
fireman was at liberty to sign on another
ship. He proceeded to Newcastle, where
he was engaged to sail in the Iron
Warrior. At that stage the dispute could
have been settled ; the fireman had joined
another ship and the suspended engineers
were ready and willing to take the Corio
to sea without him. But this didn’t suit
the Communist-controlled union’s book.
The Newcastle secretary of the Sea-
men’s Union, together with the Harbor
Master, intercepted the Iron Warrior as
she was leaving port and replaced the
Corio man with another fireman, order-
ing the Corio man to proceed to Sydney
and stand by the Corio.
In the days of sail the master had
supreme power to hire and fire. With'
the introduction of steam the master
called upon his chief engineer to relieve
him of these duties as far as the engine-
room staff was concerned. Therefore the
chief engineer is, in reality, a sub-
employer acting on behalf of his captain
and the shipping co. If the master and
chief engineer are unable to retain this
right they are unable to maintain dis-
cipline and without discipline it is im-
possible to run a ship.
For years it has been the object of
the Seamen’s Union to gain control of
shipping, to overrule the shipping office
and supply crews direct from the Trades
Hall, to reduce the ship’s master and
his officers to the status of servile instru-
ments of its “policy,” The plan of attack
is to break down sea traditions, the
standard of discipline and reduce tha
shipping industry to a hilarious joke.
Marine engineers have long been aware
of this plan ; the Corio incident is by
no means the first of its kind.
Mr. Healy condemned the engineers’
action as “a violation of trade-union
principles.” This from the Communist
boss of the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion! But the Institute of Marine
Engineers is not a trade-union. And its
members behaved like gentlemen when
they gave a month’s notice —ample time
for a solution. Has there ever been a
case where a body of Communist-
controlled strikers gave a month’s notice?
The A.C.T.U. referred to the engineers’
stand as “a flimsy pretext for paralysing
the nation’s industry.” A.C.T.U. unions
have paralysed the nation’s industry on
flimsy pretexts scores of times. — Yagoo
(S.A.).
No 40-hour-week Cows!
To land men, grimly trying to
assess the effects, direct and indirect, of
the 40-hour-week on them, the section
of the judgment referring to rural indus-
tries must have been bitterly amusing:
The added costs, which cannot be passed
on, will, in the opinions of the economists,
which have mostly impressed us, be com-
fortably carried because of the very greatly
enhanced prices of rural products, which
look like being maintained for a substantial
period. In addition, the first impact will
be cushioned further by a most bountiful
season, which seems now assured.
It might have occurred to the persuasive
“economists” that “very greatly en-
hanced prices for rural products” are, in
part, an effect of inflation, and in any
case are good for only so long as the
consuming urban population at home can
continue to pay them (it already shows
signs of reducing its purchases of what
it can buy), and for only so long as the
hungry populations abroad can find the
money or credit with which to buy them.
The judgment had scarcely been made
public when woolbuyers from America,
one of the very few countries that can
pay for their requirements and fancies,
absented themselves from the sales on
the ground’ that wool prices were too
high. Last year they bought about
£36,000,000 worth and their buying kept
the market at high levels.
The bit about “a most bountiful
season” is all right as far as it goes. But
there have been three to five years of
drought in various parts of the Com-
monwealth —Queensland alone has lost
nearly a third of its sheep and cattle, and
Westralia part of this season’s wheat.
And, even in periods when taxation and
service charges —now rising all the time
were low and when there was no
scarcity of labor or material require-
ments, all of which are now scarce, it
took more than “one bountiful season
to overcome the effects of drought.
0.-T. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
Australian magazines and newspapers
almost invariably contain a large per-
centage of o verseas photos. They seem
to prefer a photo, of an American girl
in bathers to a photo, of an Australian
girl similarly dressed, or a snow scene
in Switzerland to one of Mt. Kosciusko.
Whole pages are devoted to pictorial hog-
wash about the lives of film stars. Ameri-
can magazines contain 99 per cent.
American illustrations. English publica-
tions are equally loyal to their own
country. Why can’t Australian maga-
zines, at least, follow suit in that respect?
—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Mr. Chifley has told us that we can’t
buy new cars, trucks or buses because
we haven’t enough dollars for such
luxuries. A week later the Common-
wealth Bank inserted in my pass-book
a pamphlet offering to help me buy new
trucks, buses, cars, farm machinery,
tractors, industrial plant, machine tools,
etc. On inquiry at the Bank I was told
that I could get the money for my car
for a deposit of 33i per cent., the balance
to be payable over three years, with
interest at a flat rate of 4 per cent, per
annum. — JDomino (N.S.W.).
There is something in this nationalisa-
tion. I went along to visit my old firm
the other Saturday morning, fully expect-
ing to see my ex-colleagues all working
busily at their desks—though with one
eye on the clock as usual. To my as-
tonishment I found the place deserted.
Finally one old friend strolled out of a
room yawning. “Where’s So-and-so?” I
asked, “Oh, he never comes in on Satur-
day now we’re nationalised,” he said.
“How do you like the change?” I asked
him. “Oh, it’s all right,” he said. “Bit
boring —Government stroke and all that ”
—R.V. (Vic.).
Australians should be proud of the
record of over 4,000,000 miles flown by
the R.A.A.F.-operated Australia-Japan
Courier Service with twin-engined air-
craft and without one major accident.
Servicemen, Government officials, sick
troops and others have all been carried
safely over the 7000-mile route during the
past two years. Before long it is expected
Qantas will take over on charter and
the C47s (Dakotas) will be replaced by
four-engined Lancastrians, flying from
Darwin via Manila to Tokyo. But what
will become of the R.A.A.F. crews who
have pioneered the service? —A. A. M,
(Q-).
It was a pleasure to read “L.S.P.’s”
spirited reply to my par, (B, 24/9/’47),
but he missed my point, which was that,
after the 1914-18 War, many men with in-
sufficient experience were placed on the
land. I contend that a carefully arranged
points system would give better results
than the ballot. “L.S.P.” and his fellows
“Can you make a noise like a shin of beef , lady-I want him to look
round!”
are obviously the right men for the job,
but are all the settlers like them?
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
“Saving”
A fair sample of socialist thinking
was Mr. Chifley’s announcement that the
abolition of war-time company tax would
“cost about £3i million.” If the abolition
of the tax is to represent a “cost,” one
can only presume that the £3| million
taken under the name of “war-time com-
pany tax” is to be debited somewhere
else in Mr. Chifley’s Budget— i.e., it is to
be reefed off the taxpayers under some
other name.
The kind of announcement one would
like to hear, but never does, is that with
the abolition of departments created dur-
ing the war and with a consequent reduc-
tion in the payroll, it has become prac-
ticable to reduce expenditure. Therefore,
the income from such-and-such a tax is
no longer required and the tax is to be
abolished.
Of course we’ll never hear that kind
of announcement from Mr. Chifley—
socialist Governments with their hordes
of departments, bureaucrats and civil
servants have strange economic theories.
They meet decreasing efficiency with in-
creased charges (as with their trams and
trains), and they “justify” exorbitant taxa-
tion by finding or creating fresh white
elephants to spend it on. — Philp (Vic.).
Morale
During the war the greater part of
Australia’s armed forces (B. 17/9/’47)
were kept in camps close to capital cities
or large country towns. Thousands of
men would have been happier in a war
area doing a fair dinkum job of work.
Under the conditions in which they
were employed, however, they were dis-
contented and difficult to handle. Con-
ditions under which leave was granted
were laid down by L.H.Q. and covered all
areas of service ; naturally they presumed
that a unit on operational service had
other things to worry about besides leave.
That meant troops kept in comparative
idleness at home were subject to the same
orders and regulations as those in for-
ward areas.
Some C.Os. took the realistic view and
saw that men living close to their homes
got plenty of leave. Others stuck to the
letter of the law and dispensed justice
to all who made their own arrangements
for their spare time.
Without “amenities,” these units would
never have hung together, would never
have been anything but an undisciplined
rabble. When opportunity took these
men overseas they settled down to their
jobs as model soldiers. The bulk of them
held that while there was a job to do they
would do it, but as long as they had to
hang around home they would have their
share of “home comforts.”
* The great-mystery of the war was why
so many thousands of keen men were
kept hanging around Australia while
veterans of the M.E. and the early N.G.
campaigns were thrown into campaign
after campaign until they died out from
sheer exhaustion. “Good morale in the
back area” was destroyed by a process
of attrition as men spent month after
month, year after year, waiting for the
movement orders that never came, and
watching farms and businesses that could
have contributed something vital to the
national war effort disintegrating through
disuse while the manpower to operate
them spent its time marching back and
forth over the countryside, washing trucks
and playing two-up.
Morale is not much better now. Con-
ditions brought about by that wasted man-
power aren’t conducive to the develop-
ment of hope, courage and zeal in the
breast of the ex-soldier whose wife and
kids are sitting in a ccfrner of someone
else’s home while he seeks vainly for a
house or flat or a block of land on which
to build one—or the materials with which
to build it. —K. S. (N.S.W.).


:>r
«5>
H
y /
m
mm
*4 ' I
:• :•;■■■■
mm
m
mm
%
m
ill
ii
ii
mi
m
■ i
i
When the climb is very severe
II
■■■■
With petrol restrictions so much eased, it’s five years
since your engine was tested under conditions of such
prolonged hot weather running as will be planned for this
year’s touring.
Safeguard your engine beforehand by draining out the
old oil and refilling with Shell Drag-Free Motor Oil For
Extra Protection.
The extra oiliness, and freedom from drag, of Shell
Motor Oil keep every bearing and friction surface 100%
lubricated no matter how hot the weather or how severe
the running conditions.
MOTOR OIL
fi
wr
L
BEFORE TOURING, LET YOUR
GARAGE OR SERVICE STATION
DRAIN, FLUSH AND REFILL YOUR
ENGINE WITH SHELL MOTOR OIL.
ŵ
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain.)
