

The House of Seppelt ... producers of
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 68—No, 3521
Wednesday, August 6, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
GLASGOW UNIVERSITY IS ONE OF BRITAIN’S GREATEST
'THE magnificent buildings shown here represent the modern
■*- structures of Glasgow University, Gilmorehill. They were
designed by Sir Gilbert Scott, but after the University migrated
to them, in 1870, many notable additions were made. After the
demolition of the old College in High Street Sir William Pearce
purchased the outstanding architectural pieces of masonry and
built the present gatehouse at Gilmorehill. Used for graduation
. purposes, Bute Hall was the gift of the late Marquis of Bute, and
Randolph Hall is another benefaction the name of which perpetu-
ates the memory of its donor. Glasgow University has faculties
in art, science, divinity, medicine and law. Women, equally with
men, are admitted to its degrees, and for them there is Queen
Margaret College, founded in 1883. Among noted Scotsmen who
were educated here were Adam Smith, Sir William Hamilton and
John Wilson. The first meetings of Glasgow University were held
in the Lower Church of the Cathedral, after James II of Scotland
had secured for his friend Bishop Turnbull the authority to
establish the University, in 1450.


fkeVmce Journalism
at HOW
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
6.8. 147
AGE
The Red Page
THE TRAGIC CLOWNS.
Ciano's Diary (Heinemann; Angus
and Robertson) is the secret inner history
of Italian diplomacy from 1939 to 1943.
There are probably things in it that Chur-
chill and Montgomery didn’t know.
Essentially, it is not a “war book” at all,
but a fascinating human document which
though it has not the endearing univer
sality of Pepys, may take a permanen
place with the minor and accidenta
treasures of the world’s literature
and will certainly be invaluable to the
historians, the novelists and the play
wrights of the future. Sumner Welle
sums it up accurately in his foreword
when he says “I can imagine some future
Gibbon or even Lytton Strachey coming
upon it with a gasp of delight.”
“Delight” is a curious word to use
for this cynical portrayal of the men
who made the war, yet it is the righ
one. The book offers not only that kinc
of black delight which Matthew Arnold
found in tragic drama, but, from the
first page to the last, the irresistible
delight of comedy. Ciano has wit and
he cannot help laughing, if ruefully, a
the way Italy conducted her war:
November 9, 1941. Libya needs materials,
arms, fuel, more and more every day. And
a convoy of seven ships left, accompanied
by two 10,000-ton cruisers and 10 de-
stroyers, because it -was known that at
Malta the British had two battleships in-
tended to act as wolves among the sheep.
An engagement occurred, the results of
which are inexplicable. All, I mean all,
cur ships were sunk, and one or maybe
two or three destroyers. The British
returned to their ports after having
slaughtered us. Naturally today our vari-
ous headquarters are pulling out their
usual and inevitable imaginary sinking of
a British cruiser by a torpedo plane; no-
body believes it. This morning Mussolini
was depressed and indignant.
November 10, 1941. The photographs
taken by our reconnaissance planes show
four British ships moored in the port of
Malta. Notwithstanding, it is reported in
the bulletin that one of the cruisers has
been hit. Pricolo insists upon it, and argues
that the ship had been moored near the
dry dock. This is equivalent to declaring
that a man is probably slightly dead be-
cause he has gone to live near the cemetery.
Clowns, tragic clowns, who have brought
our country to its present necessity of
accepting, in fact of invoking, outside in-
tervention for protection and defence.
Above all, the diary gives the delight
of the truth. Its authenticity is guaran-
teed both by Sumner Welles (to whom,
when he was on a diplomatic mission to
Italy, Ciano reads parts of it) and by
Malcolm Muggeridge, who supplements
Welles’s foreword with a well-written
introduction. Muggeridge says that while
Ciano was in prison awaiting execution he
was able to “make arrangements for con-
fiding the diary to his wife” (Edda,
Mussolini’s daughter) and that Edda
smuggled the manuscript to Switzerland,
where it was microfilmed and sent to
the United States.
dano’s Diary is not the full story of
Italy’s unhappy adventure, for there were
secrets —including some of his conver-
sations with Hitler—that Mussolini did
not share with his Foreign Secretary.
The narrative is colored in favor of its
author, and often one must read between
the lines. Yet, by and large, the book
has the unmistakable ring of truth.
Here, sketched direct from life, are the
men, some evil, some “tragic clowns,”
who shook European civilisation to its
foundations. Hitler:
October 1, 1939. I found Hitler very
serene. He was wearing a grey-green jacket
with his usual black trousers. His face
bore traces of recent fatigue, but this was
not reflected in the alertness of his mind.
What impressed me most was his con-
fidence in ultimate victory. Either he is
bewitched or he really is a genius. He
outlines plans of action and cites dates
with an assurance that does not admit of
contradiction The eyes of Hitler flash
in a sinister fashion whenever he talks
about ways and means of fighting.
Mussolini:
March 6, 1940. Within a short time the
guns will fire by themselves. It is not
possible that of all people I should be-
come the laughing-stock of Europe. I
have to stand for one humiliation after
another. As soon as I am ready I shall
make the British repent. My intervention
m the War will bring about their defeat.
Count Ugo Cavallero, Italian Chief of
Staff:
February 13, 1942. Cavallero has pre-
sented Mussolini with a list which indicates
that we are producing 280 anti-tank guns
a month. When this figure was questioned
he confessed that it was not correct but
represented our theoretical possibilities, and,
in pencil, in front of the Duce himself, he
corrected the 280 to 160. This was a
sensational reduction Mussolini was in-
dignant and said the only reason he did not
throw Cavallero out was because after so
many changes he realises that all generals
are equally deceitful.
Goring:
February 2, 1942. Luncheon with Goring
at Cavallero’s. As usual he is bloated and
overbearing Following the example of
that perfect clown Cavallero, who would
even go so far as to bow to the public
lavatories if this would advance him, the
three heads of our military staff acted to-
day in the presence of that German as if
he were their master. And he strutted
blissfully 1 am told that he plays with
his gems like a little boy with his marbles.
During the journey he was nervous, so his
aides brought him a small vase filled with
diamonds. He placed them on the table
and counted them, lined them up, mixed
them together, and calmed down com-
pletely. One of his aides said last even-
ing, “He has two hobbies —beautiful objects
and making war.”
Ribbentrop—“An out-and-out war-
monger” ; Ley—“a heavy person who in
the past was a well-known drunkard
living in a brothel in Cologne” ; Himmler
—“who in Munich in 1938 was in des-
pair because an agreement had been
reached and war seemed to be averted.”
These are the principal villains. The
Germans, as Victor Emmanuel says every
time Ciano talks to him, and as Ciano
himself believed, are “an ugly lot.” The
most interesting of them, because he
remains a mystery, is Hitler, for whom,
even when he “talks and talks and talks
and talks and talks,” Ciano always feels
a kind of awe. But, though he responds
to Hitler’s “cordiality” and discusses a
mistress who apparently preceded Eva
Braun—Sigrid von Lappus—the diarist is
never able to make a human being out
of the inhuman Adolf. Treacherous,
fanatical, implacably determined on war,
Hitler remains the familiar talking auto-
maton, and the only touch of warmth
in this icy portrayal comes in some of
his meetings with Mussolini, particularly
their “spontaneously cordial” conver-
sation in Germany in January, 1941:
We arrive at a small station. I think it
is Puch. Hitler and his Chiefs of Staff
are waiting for us on the platform in the
snow. The weather is fair and the cold not
too intense. The meeting is cordial and,
what surprises me most, spontaneously
cordial. There are no hidden condolences
in the air condolences that Mussolini
feared On his return Mussolini is elated,
as he always is after a "meeting with Hitler.
It seems possible that Hitler really
liked Mussolini; to adapt a line of
Yeats’s that seems to fit the case, “The
two old scoundrels talked together.” They
were, after all, the two worst men on
earth and perhaps only in each other’s
company did they really feel comfort-
able.
Musso, however, was not so comfort-
able as Hitler. The Fuhrer’s liking for
him must always have been nourished by
the pleasure of patronage and Musso,
though inspired and fortified at their
meetings, knew himself,,when he thought
things over in Italy, to be the lackey:
June 10, 1941. What a strange anniver-
sary of our entry into the war. Using as
a pretext the increased Germafi meddling
in Croatia, Mussolini uttered the harshest
charges against Germany that I have ever
heard from him. “It is of no importance,”
he said, “that the Germans recognise our
rights in Croatia on paper, when in prac-
tice they take everything and leave us only
a little heap of bones. They are dirty
dogs and I tell you this cannot go on for
long Personally I’ve had my fill of
Hitler and the way he acts. These con-
ferences called by the ringing of a bell
are not to my liking; a bell is rung when
people call their servants. And besides,
what kind of conferences are these? For
five hours I am forced to listen to a mono-
logue which is quite fruitless and boring.”
Ciano’s portrayal of Mussolini —done,
of course, in far more intimate detail
than the Hitler portrait—is singularly
unflattering. It is, essentially, a picture
of a stupid man—a vainglorious fool
who would not face facts. .
In mitigation of this picture, it might
be argued that Musso, perceiving that
Italy must march with Hitler or be
destroyed by him, was wiser than his
Foreign Minister, who wanted to come
to terms with the Allies. And, too,
Mussolini was undoubtedly sincere when
he said, time and again, that honor
obliged him to fulfil his promises to the
Nazis, Yet that would be only a more
polite way of saying that he went to war
out of fear of Hitler and fear of being
laughed at. True, he entered the big war
only when he thought it was safely won
—an inglorious but prudent action; but
it remains difficult to disagree with
Ciano’s picture of childish vanity and
stupidity when the Duce, because he
wanted to believe Italy was a great mili-
tary nation and himself a modern Jenghis
Khan, refuses to face even the simplest
facts of arithmetic:
April 30, 1941. Today our paratroops
occupied Cefalu. They are only a few,
about 150, and we hope they will not be
thrown into the sea by the local garrison.
The Duce is anxious to make the announce-
ment “because since we now have a good
number of paratroops we can, even if it
be only a regiment, say that it is a division.”
This upsets me. We are at it again, and
the lessons of the past have taught us little.
The diary shows Mussolini in a hundred
moods: ordering Franco to shoot all the
anti-Fascist Italians—Communists and
Anarchists —taken prisoner in the Spanish
war “because dead men tell no tales” ;
determined, in February, 1939, to force
a war with France —“The Italians already
hate France, but the Duce intends to
work this hatred to a climax in the
course of the next few months. When he
■ has waged war and beaten France he
will show the Italians ‘how a peace in
Europe should be made.’ He will not
ask for indemnities, but will go in for
wholesale destruction. Many cities will
be levelled to the ground.”
He is shown dismissing Roosevelt’s
suggestion in April, 1939, of a 10 years’
European truce as “a result of
infantile paralysis”; and talking, in
August, 1939, of proposing a world
peace conference because —and for
no other reason —Italy was not then
ready for a major war —“The Duce
is anxious for me to prove to the
Germans, by documentary evidence, that
the outbreak of war at this time would
be folly. Our preparations are not such
as to allow us to believe that victory
will be certain. Now there are no more
than even chances; at least so the Duce
thinks. On the other hand, within three
years the chances will be four to one.
Mussolini has constantly in mind the
idea of an international peace conference.
I believe the mood would be excellent.”
He is shown vacillating when the war
breaks out; tempted to desert Hitler;
“warlike, talking of armies and attacks”
when the encouraging news comes through
of the German agreement with Moscow ;
“really out of his wits” when Ciano and
the Chiefs of Staff demonstrate to him,
arguing the impossibility of going to war,
the “pitiful” state of the Italian forces —
“His military instinct and his sense of
honor were leading him to war. Reason
has now stopped him. He has had to
confront the hard truth. And this for
the Duce is a great blow.”
But above all, and through it all, Mus-
solini is shown refusing to face that “hard
truth” of Italy’s hopeless weakness. It
was not merely that Cavallero and the
rest lied to him; they did, because they
were frightened to tell the truth to a
man to whom it was dangerous to
mention even his age or his indigestion;
but Mussolini knew the truth. Only, a
great war was raging in Europe, he “ffelt
left out” and “this pained him.” And
so, though he had said the Italians
were “a race of sheep,” a people he
would like to “beat and beat and beat,”
he would declare to Ciano —even after
Italy had entered the war and its forces
had gone from one defeat to another —
that the Italian divisions on the Russian
front were “superior to the German, both
in men and equipment.” In April, 1942,
speaking to the Society of Friends of
Japan, he said, “The Italian soldiers and
the Japanese soldiers and the other armies
of the Tripartite Alliance will wage war
until victory”; and this, though it was
probably spoken in an anti-German
mood, is typical of the sort of “wishful
thinking” with which Mussolini con-
stantly deluded himself. “Oh, his eternal
illusions!” cries the exasperated Foreign
Minister.
Sometimes, as Ciano paints him,
Mussolini seems as simple as a child —a
small boy who wanted to play with his
battleships—“lf we do not take advantage
of this occasion to pit our Navy against
the French and British forces, what is the
use of building 600,000 tons of war-
ships?” A child; but a frightful child:
when Italy finally entered the war the
Duce was, says Ciano, “the picture of
happiness.” Mussolini destroyed Italy
because he wanted to be a great military
leader—a Caesar, a Tamerlane —and
this without any qualifications for the
role, without any reasonable' hope of
success and without himself taking part
in a single battle. One could not improve
on Ciano’s own phrase, which he applied
specifically to Cavallero, that rather like-
able old noodle to whom all defeats
were “logical”: “clowns, tragic clowns.”
The phrase applies to Ciano himself
far more tellingly than his diary shows
him to realise. It is as a self-portrait
that, from the literary viewpoint, the
book is most valuable; yet this is an un-
conscious revelation, in which what is not
said is often more important than what is
stated. Only from foreknowledge, or from
Welles’s foreword, for instance, could
one be aware that Ciano, full of brave
words in his writing, would “quail” in
the Duce’s presence ; that he strutted and
postured in public, aping his master;
that he was financially corrupt; and that,
more than likely, he was personally
responsible for the assassination of
several enemies of Fascism during his
early years as Foreign Minister. His
spectacular private life, referred to in
Muggeridge’s introduction, is not men-
tioned by Ciatjp himself.
On this count alone, Muggeridge is
obviously in error
an excellent comparison of MussS
with Macbeth, with Hitler for the HorS
Sisters (Lady Macbeth would be S
correct), he finds a likeness between CW
and Boswell. Boswell was frank
knew what he was doing; Ciano £
sofar as he does tell the truth about him
self, does it by accident.
It is typical of Ciano’s powers of
self-deception—in some respect sunerin
even to Mussolini’s—that in his mJ
scnpt, written in, prison, he purports to
offer the diary for publication on the
grounds that “an honest testimonial of
the truth in this sad world may still be
useful in bringing relief to the innocent
and striking at those who are respon-
sible”: what he means by these noble
words is that he hopes to be revenged on
Mussolini.
When the book opens, on January ]
1939, it is probable that Ciano has
already lost faith in his leader.
Yet his tone at this time is gener-
ally adulatory; something of the
old spell remains. He is able to per-
suade himself, or at any rate he says, that
“victory in Spain bears only one name,
and that is the name of Mussolini, who
conducted the campaign bravely, firmly,
even at a time when many people who
now applaud him were against him.” At
a meeting of the Fascist Grand Council
when the Duce speaks on the necessity of
uncompromising loyalty to the Axis, he
is described as “logical, cold and heroic.”
This is the sort of stuff Ciano had to
say in public, and from time to time he
says it to himself in private. But in
the next sentence we find him recording
an “unfortunate remark” of Balbo’s:
“You are licking Germany’s boots.” And
although Ciano says he “protested
violently,” and no doubt did, he never
fails throughout the book to record, with
obvious concurrence, the most outrageous
insults to Mussolini. His last observa-
tion on his respected father-in-law is an
accusation of “base cowardice.”
Seeming at first, while the Spanish
war and the Albanian adventure
occupy the stage, no more than
a playboy in politics, completely
unscrupulous and with an appalling con-
tempt for the humanities—he thought the
Albanian invasion was admirably timed
because Zog’s wife was pregnant (“And,
frankly, I cannot imagine Geraldine run-
ning around fighting through the moun-
tains of Unthi or Mirdizu in the ninth
month of pregnancy”)—Ciano appears
to suffer a remarkable sea-change when
it becomes certain that nothing will stop
the Germans marching against Poland
and that the world war is about to begin.
Thereafter he is all for Britain, and
all for peace. When, in the midst of his
new humanitarianism, he applauds
Mussolini’s invasion of Greece —“The
Duce seems determined to act now. In
fact, I believe that the military operation
will be useful and easy”—he is totally
unaware of any inconsistency.
A man, perhaps, should be given credit
for his noble sentiments, even if they
spring from fear and he abandons them
the moment he sees a chance of some
easy villainy. So one may note that
Ciano liked and respected Chamberlain,
admired Churchill, always spoke well of
Britain and never once in the whole
course of the book accuses Britain or
America of causing the war. And, like
many of the Germans but unlike Musso-
lini, who said he did not care if the
Japanese spread to the Persian Gulf,
Ciano thought the early victories of the
Japanese were “a fearful tragedy for the
white race.”
The outbreak of the world war, and
the death of his father, do seem to
have brought out both statesmanlike and
humane qualities in Ciano, but too late
in the day and, as the invasion of Greece
showed, uncertainly. He was, says
Sumner Welles, “the amoral product of a
wholly decadent period in Italian and,
for that matter, in European history. To
him morality in international relations
did not exist.”
Playboy, gangster, opportunist, assassin,
statesman, patriot, coward, “clown, tragic
clown” —any and all the labels can be
applied to his complex and variable
character. At any rate he left a fascinat-
ing book behind him and, in his account
of his frantic efforts to persuade Musso-
lini not to enter the big war, an unfor-
gettable picture of terror.
Ciano’s Diary is a long book, rich
with anecdotes to which no review
could possibly do justice. Two, at
least, must be mentioned. There
is a grimly funny story, accepted by
Ciano as true, of some hapless Russian
prisoners eating a German sentry; and
there is a picture of Mussolini in Libya
when, apparently, he came into contact
with the Maoris —“He told me that he
had found groups of fierce-looking New
Zealand prisoners ‘who were so far from
reassuring that he always kept his gun
close at hand.’ ”


Anthony Horderns’
—/ t — /
✓9s.
■JSS
,\^
/-
C)
/ '
$/
And oflf we go in style with luggage from Sydney’s
favourite Travel Goods Department Anthony
Horderns’! Go anywhere in New South Wales —in
Australia —in fact, travel the world over and see
how our baggage stands up to the toughest wear.
MM
y
/
■
w
I
mm
rnmmmm
'AL/ Lightweight Leather Suitcase, our own
favourite for air travel . . . tastefully lined with
inside pocket, two locks, finished in grained hide,
with rounded corners, in Fawn with Brown piping
and Blue with Fawn piping. Size 24in. £B/9/6
And to match this Leather Suitcase,
is this horseshoe-shaped Hat Box, your ideal
protection for holiday hats. Size 18in. £5/17/3
• Travel Goods —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Overnight Bag ... a definite
"must” in all travelling . , . with slide
fastener, cloth lined, with inside pocket,
two ringed handles, made from attractive
grained hide in colours of Fawn, Brown,
Blue or Tan. Size 18 inches. Price, 69/8
Business Folio Case, fashioned from
grained hide, with slide fastener extending
along top and on one side; 4-inch gusset for
extra carrying capacity. Cloth lined with an
inside pocket. Size 15in. x llin. Price, 43/
Travel Bag with slide fastener, cloth
lined inside, two leather ringed handles with
supporting straps, inside pocket, piped seams.
In colours Brown with Fawn piping and Fawn
with Fawn piping. Size 20in. x Sin. x 12in. high.
Price . . £5/7/
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 27!20, C.P.0., SYDNEY


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia f
JACKSON
O'SUUJVAN
!g>. WYCm **
BR»*
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” WINDOW FACE
ENVELOPES
-NATIONAL BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
“NATIONAL FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
NATIONAL” WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
*
LET
r ATLAS )
CARRY THE
i BURDEN i
W
1
sb
'S
mu.j.
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
F. V. MIEBS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
r W
fii
mi
is
£
i
m
£*> 1
*»
ess;&■ *«* '■
c?Z>>
A
Go«">“
Z&f
3s*
t-.
m
*
m
z *
#-
CAS.
«SSOM
Stfg&B
•£>3
gins
All
WHl c il
rv
standard bY
GE p
jUP
are
ALL over the world critical people
place a trust in the name of
Gilbey's that is more than a com-
pliment to the product: it's a
tribute to uniformly high quality.
Today, after almost 100 years of
painstaking care in distilling, the
name Gilbey's is your assurance
of excellence unchanged, un-
challenged, quite beyond compare.
jPcn 'tsay -say
ILBEVS
G/f659
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Select Documents of Eng-
lish Economic History, by Bland, Brown and
Tawney.—4o62.
Copy of print of “The Flowing Bowl,” by
Livingston Hopkins (“H0p”).—4058.
Old prospector, 40 years’ experience, mainly
Cloncurry (Q.) district, needs party of young
ex-servicemen interested mining to take over
propositions worth attention.—4os9.
Location in N.S.W. of “Conroy’s Gap,”
title of a “Banjo” Paterson p0em. —4066.
To buy recent copies of leading English-
speaking newspapers published in South Africa
and Rhodesia. —4065. %
To buy copies of “National Geographic
Magazine” for August, 1926, and September,
1927.—4063.
Words of verse “Hard Tack,” by Capt. Fred
Aarons, concluding “The toughest blanky shed
I ever shore.” —4061.
Words of verse beginning “They ration our
potatoes, they ration our beer,” and ending
“But, thank God, they don’t ration women.”
—4060.
Information Sought.
How to clean a .22-calibre rifle which has
become “leaded” after about eight years of use ?
Quicksilver will remove the lead in the barrel.
Your local chemist will advise the necessary
quantity. But you will find after removing the
lead that the rifling of the barrel will be con-
siderably worn and pitted and that a new
barrel will be needed.
* * * *
I wish to instal a 32-volt home-lighting plant
and make use of an engine 600 yards away.
Where should the batteries be placed to prevent
any undue loss of power ?
Place the batteries at the house to avoid a
voltage drop between the batteries and the
house lights. There will be loss of power in
any case, due to the distance between the
generator and the batteries, and they should
be connected with ample thick copper wire, but
with the above arrangement the loss in power
would be taken up by running the generator
at a higher speed when charging the batteries.
However, if the generator is designed to deliver
a good margin of volts above the bat m
voltage, this may not be necessary
* * * ,
Formula for arriving at a. fair rent of *
cottage? 1 “
UsnaHy 5 p.c. is allowed on the valuation
of the land and buildings; but the Rent Con-
troller may allow a different percentage if he
so desires. To this sum he adds (1) Annual
rates and insurance premiums. (2) Estimated
annual cost of repairs, maintenance and re
newals of premises and fixtures thereon n\
Estimated annual depreciation and estimated
vacancies. (4) Any services provided by lessor
or lessee in connection with lease. The sum
arrived at in this manner will be the fair rent
If either party is not satisfied with this de-
cision he may appeal to a magistrate.
* * * «
Will returned soldiers from World War II
receive a war gratuity similar to that received
by returned soldiers from World War I ?
War Gratuity is payable to service members
and is credited at the following rates in accord-
ance with the War Gratuity Act, 1945; £3 IS S
per month for overseas service, and 15s. per
month for service in Australia subsequent to
7/12/’4l on the completion of six months’
continuous full-time service. Members eligible
for War Gratuity should lodge applications
with the Finance Office of the service and in
the State of enlistment; these forms are avail-
able at all official post offices. The due date
of payment of War Gratuity is March 3, 1951,
and only in special proclaimed circumstances
can earlier payment be approved. War Gratuity
is not alienable whether by way of or in con-
sequence of sale, assignment, charge, execution
bankruptcy or otherwise.
* * * *
(1) Is it legal to keep bees in a N.S.W.
fown? (2) Must hives be registered? (3)
Can honey be sold wholesale or retailed legally
in N.S.W. or has it to be pooled?
(1) A local council has power to control the
keeping of bees in towns and villages. Mainly,
however, the onus is on the beekeeper to have
his hives so situated and to employ good
methods of management to ensure that the bees
will not constitute a nuisance. (2) It is neces-
sary to register hives of bees, and a form of
application giving particulars of fees, etc., is
obtainable from the Department of Agriculture,
Sydney. (3) No Honey Marketing Board or
pool exists in N.S.W., but sales are subject to
price-control regulation. A maximum price of
6jd. per lb. at the apiary and l\d. per lb. on
the market for wholesale quantities has been
fixed. Retail sales by packers of honey is a
matter for decision by the Prices Commission.
* * * *
Meaning of the term “narangy” as used by
Tom Collins in “Such Is Life”?
Miles Franklin, who has made a close study
of Such Is Life and written a book about the
author, believes thdt “narangy” is synonymous
with jackeroo: probably a blackfellow’s word,
She knows it only in Such Is Life, where it is
always used for the jackeroos, otherwise “gentle-
men apprentices,” on a station and others who
were entitled to eat with them. They ate in
the barracks on big places like Runnymede
and with the family on small stations such as
she grew up on.
* * * *
The leaves of Lisbon and bush lemons on
my Queensland property are turning yellow and
falling. The rind of some of the fruit is
brownish-green instead of yellow and rather
wooden. Cause and treatment ?
The leaf symptoms described suggest that
the lemon-trees are suffering from some soil
trouble affecting their food and water supply.
The excessively wet weather experienced earlier
this year resulted in many cases in the de-
velopment of root rot and in a depletion of
some of the plant foods normally stored in
the soil. The soil is now drying out and the
plants are commencing to feel the effect of a
diminished intake of their normal requirements.
If this is true in the present case, correct
manuring and watering of the trees should
remedy the trouble. The fruit symptoms may
be due to the presence of the Maori mite.
This pest can be satisfactorily controlled by
dusting with sulphur.
Brief Answers.
C.P.: The longest railway passenger plat-
forms in N.S.W. are at Albury (1510 ft.) and
Cronulla (1275 ft.). The longest freight plat-
'orms are at Flemington stock yards (two of
2177 ft. each) and at Albury (two of 1100 ft.
each) 5.8.; Sweden has an area of 173,416
square miles and a population of 6,597,000.
Principal cities are Stockholm (655,000), Gothen-
burg (296,000), Malmo (168,000), Norrkoping
(76,000), and Halsingborg (65,000) G.J.H.:
Obtain a packet of varnish remover from an
oil and color store. Failing that, to one gallon
freshly-slaked limewash add 11b. washing soda
and a few lumps of rock ammonia. Apply
with fibre brush. Scrape off varnish as it
softens. Swill with water, brush with vinegar
(to kill soda) and wipe dry G.D.; Modern
English Literature by Enid Moodie Heddle,
Theatre in Australia by Allan Aldous, Womans
Place in Society by Margaret Harland, Art
Appreciation by R. Haughton James, Adver-
tising by Harry Harte and R. C. Luckie, Facing
Philosophical Problems by Q. B. Gibson, and
Education-Press-Radio by Lewis Wilcher. All
are obtainable from F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd.,
338 Little Collins-street, Melbourne F.W.:
(1) Commonwealth Clydesdale Society’s Year
Book, 1947, will be published shortly; price
11s. posted from Royal Agricultural Society
of N.S.W., Endeavour House, Macquarie-place,
Sydney S.J.K.: Tarraleah is native Tas-
manian and means “brush kangaroo” C. 8.:
Burial Trees by Lindsay Black, obtainable from
Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne H.A.:
Farm Tenancy in N.S.W. by Moodie and Butler,
obtainable from N.S.W. Govt. Printer, Sydney.
H.S.P.: Jack Donaldson ran 100yds. in
9|sec. at Johannesburg (S. Africa), 12/2/’10;
120yds. in 1 lisec. at Pretoria. (S. Africa),
13/11/ ’O9; 220yds. in 21 l-10sec. at Glasgow,
26/7/T3. Figures are from Miller’s Sporting
Annual. ,. .L.M.: In the Australian swimming
championships last year John Marshall (Vic.l
won the 220yds. in 2min. 20 3-10 sec., and the
440yds. in smin. 2sec. T. Taioli (U.S.A.) was
third in the 220yds. and second in the 440yds.
A.V.E.: Engineer Arthur Elliot was shot
by an Arab during Sir Arthur Cobham’s flight
to Australia. The bullet passed through the
side of the cabin, the mail bag, dispatch case,
gas pipe, Elliot’s arm and side, piercing lobes
of the lung, and entered his back. He died in
Basra Hospital.


Missing Friends.
WILL JOAN SMITH, daughter of Sydney Smith, for-
merly of Edward Street, Gordon, or anyone knowing
her whereabouts, please communicate with PER-
PETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39
Hunter Street, Sydney, reference LJM?
To CHARLIE O’BRIEN formerly of Peel Street
Colling wood in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown TAKE NOTICE that your wife
VIOLET O’BRIEN has instituted proceedings for a
divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS you
enter an Appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on
or before the Third day of October One thousand
nine hundred and forty-seven the case may proceed
in your absence IF you intend to defend the suit
you must also file an Answer in the said Office on
or before the Thirteenth day of October One thousand
nine hundred and forty-seven AND 1 FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the sealed copy Petition and copy
Citation in the suit may be inspected at the office
of the Petitioner’s Solicitor JOAN ROSANOVE 415
Bourke Street Melbourne Solicitor for the Petitioner.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump on
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn t
digest, Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcom
Btipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
•nd the world looks blue. _
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ‘*up and up.’’_ Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you nt.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
fife* 3/-&V3.
>rura£ turn ntfoirjinsHit ww rersonav
n ffffyv
BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL Nf
Os
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL RANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
RURAL BANK LENDS MONET FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
BANK IS N OS MONEY FOB PEBSON6V
*
IiRANDAUERS
PENS
E«ery point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANOAUER * CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
New Invention Controls
RIiPTJJRI
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method ol
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE,
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23Z) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
LISTEN TO YOUR BETTER SELF .
(VPAT A
root i'p ee ro
pay w
prices 7
mi
? 'AM
m
mx
m.
H-Kv..
VSA SKS«.
ggg
m
m
SS»:sk>
V
V.vS
..
m.
Later on, you'll be glad
you listened to your
own common sense
There are many things you want to buy ...
some are necessities, some you could do
without at a pinch, some are pure luxuries.
When you see goods on display, when you
read about the things that are now coming
back on the market again—then it’s very
tempting to splash your income, and even
to draw on your savings.
But many prices are a shock, aren’t they?
You find your money won’t go nearly as
far as you thought.
That’s when your better self comes on the
scene. You know you’d be foolish to spend.
You know that when production is in full
swing again, you’ll have a far wider choice
of better goods. You know that values will
improve as quantity and quality increase.
Then listen to your own common sense .. •
buy only necessities . . . save your money,
and invest your savings, at better than bank
5 WAYS TO SECURE YOUR FUTURE
—AND AUSTRALIA'S
1, Buy only what you really need. Spend
wisely—get full value. Save all you can.
2, Pay no more than the fixed or regular
prices. Always surrender coupons.
3, Don’t waste money on blackmarket
goods.
4, Pay your way. Settle your debts. Buy
for cash.
5, Invest your savings, at better than bank
interest, in Commonwealth Bonds, Savings
Certificates and Stamps,* Later on you’ll have
the money, plus the interest, to spend on
better goods in plentiful supply at better
values. Hold all the Bonds and Certificates
you own.
interest, in Bonds and Savings Certificates
. . . that’s the way to secure your future—
and Australia’s.
B'lY BONDS AND SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
N 520.113.67
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
, nn the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
Name and address ffs wm b, e returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
submitted; ana no mo,
to the Editor.
You certainly do flounder m t pap er.
Near-nusses. be M.C an F ark j delve in dregs
, • ‘ ~ vL take up plumbing,
and nnetrv' Rip Van Winkle; Go to sleep
not poetry....KiP v t but conven-
agam E.E.. doi y see mushrooms
tional. £nd where <ledge”? ...-Ox Junior:
growing on a JM F • Why not
The poems a fair cow....hM. ■ _ “Come
wflh'protagtd S' at the vmes abmtt to
d Tß,c s f”C Sng° i&nrs.ji,
nine * * 2* reading Bellenve:
as important to keep rea “V° rri stacks of
Welcome back after those sharp attacks
the cold shivers and rheumatics .
AF.: Colin and Peter got what they de-
served for talking two pages of platitudes.
PTJ ' We haven’t the space for a
rambling effort of that length....C.K.: Give
us something with more sparkle in it....
E T • It got away to a bad start and finished
lameiy M.C.: Story in which every third
or fourth word was a polysyllable made heavy
reading ...J.D.: Send it to your worst enemy
to read M.M.: Article on Leichhardt re-
veals no new facts..-. .H.G.L.: That go-getter
is not the comic character you think he i 5....
RM.: Sleep overtook us before we reached
the end of “Death Comes to Dinny”
E.H.W.; Pirate story belongs to a boys’ paper.
....H.K.E.: Come in and bury the wandering
waif:
M.D.S.: Please remove at your leisure that
atomic research worker and the three foreign
spies R.H.: You, too, can call for your
millionaire playboy and the poor but honest
typiste... .J.O’G.; You’ve an eye for plot and
situation, but your style is sluggish A. 8.:
Bret Harte was a long way ahead of y0u....
D.D.: A muddled and tedious effort L.W.:
Back home goes the bloke who was scared of
becoming sharkbait T.0’8.: So the refined
young suitor turned out to be a man of wealth?
How original! 8.W.: False to life....
W.P.E.: Old, old story of outcasts making good
by an unexpected deed of bravery... .E.G.:
Amelia had better see a psychiatrist as soon
as she can G.K.: Despite the somewhat
obvious ending old McTavish almost saw print.
. ...R.8.: You should be able to do a lot
better than that N.S.; No nest
in our pages for “Birds of a Feather”....
S.E.; Farm girl who ran away and became a
gypsy queen this week’s most incredible heroine.
A.T.: It didn’t survive a first reading....
J.G.: An echo of one of Price Waning s
early Bulletin stories H.M.A.: Rejected.
E.M.L.; “The Schoolboy Detective” might
gain a place in a high-school magazine
J.M.D.: Give us something Australian
A.H.K.: Somerset Maugham did it better ....
E.P.: Would like you to try again, if only
to get another look at your fine handwriting.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
* CORRESPONDENTS. •
L.M.G.: No cage at 252 George-street for
your 1i0n... .C. 8.; Why is Chif. dressed
up as a Red Indian?... .H.M.: All fell by the
wayside P. 8.: It’s a toss-up which is the
worse —the fish or the fisherman... .J.L.; As
much like a Manly ferry as a matchbox floating
down a drain... .K.F.: At least you managed
the butcher’s striped apron... .R.S.D.; Another
lion-shooting picture that missed the mark....
E.A.: We bolted and barred that bathroom
door ages ago V.S.: Slight signs of im-
provement. .. .G.M-: Found it hard to dis-
tinguish barmaids from beer-pumps... .K.H.:
Even the talking elephant failed to raise a
grin B.B.: Complete your course before
you send another... .E.H.P.: Subdued little
sketch and a wheeze that grandma used to
titter over at school... .H.N.: The landlady
is neither well drawn nor amusing G.C.:
Accept statement that beast is a dingo; dispute
assertion that man with pipe is Chifley... .D.F.;
Time that mother-in-law had a long holiday.
H.F.M.: Why don’t you give your men
and women ears? M.A.; Don’t dress our
drovers like American cowboys... .J.N.: Looks
as if they had been hacked out of hardwood.
TO THE MEMORY OF ADAM LINDSAY GORDON.
Poet, scholar and jockey,
He prevailed in his time,
Wrote his grand poems
In our Australian clime.
A cross-country rider
Who spectators did thrill,
Over steeples he’d glide
At the risk of a spill.
During racing exploits
Among daredevil men,
Stirring verse did
Plow from his pen.
But short was his life
In the long year gone,
By grim suicide on
A bleak winter morn.
Security! This cry! This sad endeavor!
This mouldering mortgage on mortality!
Shall this safe and smug behavior
Be the sluggish end, the drab finality,
The puny politics of the “saviors”
Of men?
Is this fool’s banality the gutless goal
For which Youth was bartered and extinguished ?
Shall the locust years of warring waste take toll
In sweat, tears, toil and the anguished
To be requited thus ?...
0! Pity us! ..
Lest these smug depressing fools engulf us
In their turgid swamp of lies!
For Man was not by Man created.. .made.
Nature, his Dam, sired by Futurity, laid
A fledgling on the deep bosom of the Earth,
Since when this wandering waif has strayed
Aimless, undirected, without plan or path
Yet thro’' all the million ageing years, has flayed
His upward way. Shall then this final blasphemy
Be his reward, his struggle’s testimony?
Then must he slowly sink in dull despair
To meet his end...
Since a million ageing years of sweating fret
May—in parenthesis—be insufficient yet
To teach him Nature’s infinite Security,
Her gift at birth, her shared divinity—
Man’s unconditional power.. .Adaptability 1


Product of the same organization that produced
the valiant Hudson Bomher and the famous P-38
Lightning, the Lockheed Constellation now offers
swift, comfortable schedules to most world capi-
tals. Among the great airlines selecting ConsteU
lalions for their leading flights are: aer uncos
. . . AIR FRANCE . . . AMERICAN OVERSEAS AIR-
LINES . . . BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORP. . . .
EASTERN AIR LINES . . . KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIR
LINES . . . KNILM ROYAL NETHERLANDS INDIES
AIRWAYS . . . LAV LINEA AEROPOSTAL VENEZOLANA
. . . PANAIR DO BRASIL . . . PAN AMERICAN WORLD
AIRWAYS . . . QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS, LTD. . . .
and trans world airline. Book passage with
travel agent or airline.
Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Cal., U.S.A.
Sole Australian Agents; RHEEM AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Aircraft. Spare Parts. Accessories. Sydney. Melbourne. Brisbane.
w
They took the risk
sa
v ; fe
i 1 i
•vi -I
On the 21st November,
1783, in a field near Paris,
occurred an event that
was destined to have far-
reaching effects on
modern aviation.
Jean de Rozief made the
first ascent in a free
balloon and, by staying
aloft for 25 minutes and
steering a course for 5
miles, actually paved the
way for aerial navigation
as we know it to-day
V
—a hundred years before this historic event—
was already Established as the world’s leading
Insurance Organisation, a position that has
remained unchallenged until the present day.
In Australia thousands of policies covering all
types of insurance are underwritten each year
by the oldest and largest Lloyd’s Brokers in
Australasia
EDWARD LIIMLEViSONSPTVLTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, and 9-11 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
and 33 WATT STREET, NEWCASTLE.
Melbourne: 287 Collins Street. Adelaide: T. & G. Building. Brisbane*
A.M.P. Building, berth: 156 St. George’s Terrace, hobart: "82 Collins
Street; and Canberra, A.C.T. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch,
Dunedin, new Zealand, and London, new york, Montreal, Paris, Colombo
and Singapore. „
TERRA AUSTRALIA
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
THE departure of the Italian prisoner-
of-war, Mario Stefano, from Alex
Denholm’s farm was a distressing
affair for all concerned.
After moping for several weeks, eating
practically nothing, and taking two bottles
of medicine for his mysterious complaint
(which the Control Centre Medical
Officer diagnosed as “worry guts,” a
common ailment among Italian prisoners)
there seemed to be nothing left but to
agree to Captain Pillory’s proposal to ex-
change him for another prisoner who was
in trouble with his employer,
“Nothing like a change of environment
to cure their kind of illnesses,” said the
captain with a world of assurance. “He’ll
be tearing around doing two men’s work
in a couple of days.”
When the military truck arrived Mario
suddenly looked very much worse. Alex
was astonished that a sun-tanned, olive-
skinned Italian could go so pale. Mario,
beginning to lose control of himself,
asked Alex’s permission to “salut” his
family.
He began to weep when he farewelled
Mrs. Denholm, affecting her so much
that she remembered all his' good quali-
ties, and asked if he couldn’t stay after
all; he wept more when he said “good-
bye” to the astonished children.
Then Mario put his hand limply
into Alex’s hand, and left a parting
message for the “belladonna” his sister
(who was the real cause of his decline)
and he cried like a heartbroken child.
It made Alex feel very brutal. He
supposed that his new man might be in
a similar condition and was making his
way rather reluctantly to the truck when
he heard a loud, very hearty and unmis-
takably Italia® laugh. He felt a bit
better immediately.
STANDING beside the truck as if he
owned it, and wearing an unquench-
ably optimistic smile, was a sturdy,
black-eyed Italian. He studied Alex
candidly for a moment, then his face lit
up with respectful approval. He sprang
to attention and saluted, as if he enjoyed
saluting a man like Alex.
“Guiseppe Maringoni,” he announced
himself.
Alex caught a glimpse of Mario, being
hustled by the n.c.os., both hands full
of luggage while the tears ran down his
bowed face and even from the point of
his nose; and his heart warmed toward
the smiling newcomer. He returned his
salute, feeling like an officer of high rank,
and enjoying the sensation.
When the truck started up they both
turned to wave a hand to Mario, now
looking as if he was on his way to his
execution, A very sympathetic look
came over Maringoni’s face, but as he
turned back and met Alex’s eye, he
shrugged his shoulders. He stood at
attention waiting for instructions.
Alex asked him a few questions about
his knowledge of farmwork, and received
very satisfactory answers. Maringoni
knew a fair amount of English, and made
a lively usfe of gestures and pantomime.
He was not abashed if he didn’t make
himself understood the first time.
It appeared that he had worked on a
farm on the other side of Waghurst for
six months, for a certain “Mista Gools,”
He could drive a tractor, handle sheep,
milk cows, feed poultry, dig gardens. It
was really rather astonishing that “Mista
Gools” had consented to part with such
a treasure.
When Alex had no more questions to
ask, Maringoni had a look around. He
studied the house, a huge imposing brick
structure surmounted by a complicated
roof running out into a tangle of gable
ends, which had been built by Alex’s
grandfather when the Denholm property
comprised what was now 50 farms. He
turned to Alex and the approval gave
place to unrestrained admiration.
“Mista Gools, no similar,” he said, pop-
eyed with awe, “similar palazzo.”
Alex showed him his quarters in a
workman’s cottage also dating from the
grand past. With a wave of the hand he
gave him the whole building, although
Mario had been confined to one room.
then left him to settle in. Maringoni
hurried after Alex to open the house-
yard gate. Men like Alex, he made it
plain, should not demean themselves by
opening their own gates.
NEXT morning Alex decided to make
Maringoni acquainted with his
farm. As they walked across the back-
yard, Maringoni beside him, but a
respectful half-pace to the rear, Alex
stopped at a large, richly-green lemon-
tree, studded with big, ripe fruit, to pick
a couple of lemons. Maringoni studied
the tree admiringly; “Mista Gools, no
similar,” he said.
Alex began to eat one of the lemons.
He had a perverted taste for eating
lemons straight, dating from his singing
days; that they strengthened the voice
was his peculiar delusion. He gave the
other to the Italian. Maringoni thanked
him as if he had been slowly dying for
want of a lemon ever since he was cap-
tured. His eyes shone with gratitude
through the tears which the tartness of
the lemons induced. He looked at Alex
worshipfully ; “No similar Mista Gools,”
he said.
Alex had thought of doing the tour in
his old farm sulky, but suddenly it seemed
a pity to reduce himself to the level of
“Mista Gools.” So he got out the car.
It increased his prestige even more.
The car was a huge vehicle dating from
the spacious past, and its appearance in
the streets of Waghurst invariably in-
spired some brat to shout after it;
“James, bring out the limousine.” It had
figured plush seat covers, and great
tasselled cords to hold on to.
Most of that model had been converted
to hearses, and only‘car salesmen could
tell that they had not been hearses from
the beginning. It seemed to fit in with
Maringoni’s conception of the kind of
gentleman his “padrone” was. He shook
the dust off his boots and brushed a hand
over his uniform before he got in. Most
certainly “Mista Gools” had no similar.
Likewise the sheep, the cattle and the
crops were inestimably superior to those
belonging to “Mista Gools,” and as for
the “terra”: here he broke into exclama-
tion marks. Every time Maringoni got out
to open a gate he picked up a handful
of the friable red loam and shook his
head over the wonder of it; and as they


went from paddock to paddock “Lf“ t °°j
his head even more over the extent
ft When they finally returned to the
homestead Maringoni addressed A
with impressive conviction.
“One man in Italy, plenti bu P na
similar you ; quello man no work, semp
siddown, sempre eat, sempre drink \ ,
sempre go Roma, go Milano for opera,
for divertimento.”
Alex smiled to
himself at the accu-
racy with which the
Italian had described
the decline of the
house of Denholm.
He thought it was
time to get the
nonsense out of
Maringoni’s head, so
he showed him his
work - hardened
hands. The Italian
looked at them for
a moment, then his bright eyes lit up
with understanding.
“Plenti man go soldier; no stop work
farm. In Italy similar.”
Alex let it go at that.
"THINGS were rather slack for a while
1 and Maringoni soon took over all the
odd daily jobs that had to be done. He
made such a fuss if he saw Alex doing
any work, rushing to seize anything he
was carrying, or to finish anything he had
begun, that Alex gave in to him and
spent a lot of time in his den.
Alex went to town on a couple of
occasions to do all the less important bits
of business which he never got time to do
usually, and on one of these he met his
bank manager on the street.
Mr. Stringer said he was glad he had
met Alex. Mr. Stringer had a hard face,
and a carefully cultivated persuasive
manner. He took Alex into the nearest
hotel and raised his suspicions by talking
to him affably for some time, fib asked
Alex how he was getting on with his
Italian prisoner, and when Alex told him
how he had to get rid of the first one,
Mr. Stringer began to reveal his true
colors.
“Tell me now,” he said, “do you think
it really worth while to get another? Of
course they don’t cost you much, but
isn’t it a fact that mostly they can only
paint your house or dig your garden and
do other non-income-producing jobs?
That’s what you farmers should think
about; not only how little the prisoners
are costing you, but how much extra
money they are going to bring in.”
He then told Alex abom a new service
his bank was offering to its clients (for
a small fee), particularly to those clients
who have “accommodation” from them.
It was an actuarial survey, designed to
show men, particularly farmers, which
part of their business was profitable, and
which would better be discarded. He
urged Alex to put his name down as re-
quiring the service.
Alex ordered some more beer. He did
not owe the bank so much that they.could
press the actuarial survey upon him; but
neither did he owe them so little that
he could tell Mr. Stringer to go to blazes.
He told him that he did not fancy the
idea of an actuarial survey; then he told
him that he did not need one ; then, that
he didn’t want one. But Mr. Stringer
kept acting as if it was just a matter of
another drink, and Alex would agree. He
persisted until the beer suddenly ran out,
and Alex contrived to lose him in the
general exodus.
AFTER a couple of weeks of ease, Alex
suddenly felt the need of action. He
decided it was time to overhaul his
tractor. He turned out on a Monday
morning dressed in suit of engineers’
overalls. Maringoni became more and
more distressed as it became apparent that
Alex was determined to get grease all
over himself. Presently he had a great
idea.
On a farm near by, there was an Italian
prisoner named Veracini, who was a
qualified mechanic. He was a wonder
With any kind of engine. Why not get
Veracini’s padrone to let him come oyer
for a few days? He knew that Veracini
would like it, because on his farm there
was no tractor, and he was pining for
engines.
Alex was working on the magneto and
he didn’t see the need of accepting his
prisoner’s advice. He liked fiddling with
the magneto.
He operated it and showed Maringoni
how the sparks flew from the ends of
the leads. He tried to get him to take
hold of a lead but Maringoni was not
to be caught like that. He backed away,
laughing cautiously. Alex gave himself
a whole series of shocks without blink-
ing, and Maringoni thought he was
wonderful.
Then he pulled the magneto into 50
pieces which the Italian washed in petrol
and dried with painstaking thoroughness.
Alex put the magneto together again and
turned the armature. There were no
sparks. Great concern appeared on
Maringoni’s face. Alex laughed it off
and took the magneto apart again; he
reassembled it with meticulous care; it
still wouldn’t spark.
“Blooda bastardo magneto,” said
Maringoni, showing how well he was
learning the art of combining both their
languages into a common basic verna-
cular. He saw the defeated look on his
master’s face and again, very tactfully,
suggested telephoning Veracini’s master.
Alex agreed this time. He’d had trouble
with magnetos before.
Ben Heinrich was a good friend of
Alex’s, but the Control Centre did not
approve of prisoners leaving their plages
of employment. It appeared that if they
were allowed to congregate and talk to
each other in their own language, Heaven
alone knew what diabolical intrigues they
would plot. Alex began cautiously by
asking Ben if his prisoner knew anything
about magnetos.
Ben gave a great, boastful laugh into
the phone.
“Take ’em apart blindfold behind his
back,” he said. “Why, Simpson had one
that wouldn’t work; in Waghurst they
told him it would cost a fiver to make it
go. My bloke fixed it in ten minutes.”
Alex had to listen to half-ai-dozen
similar anecdotes before he could ask if
the miracle worker could come and help
him.
“Sure thing,” said Ben. “Ever since
he came here he’s been wanting to fix
a tractor. And if you’ve got anything
else that’s out of order ; sewing machines,
gramophones, wireless sets, telephones;
it’s all the same to him. He’s fixed every-
thing we’ve got, and he’s been itching
so much for more, that sometimes we
break something just so he can repair
it. Then he’s happy again. I’ll send
him over in the morning.”
NEXT morning when Alex got up,
Maringoni met him with a beam-
ing smile.
“Arrive Veracini one hour. Magneto
reparare good. Plenti fire ; flick! flick! ”
The mechanic was a little red-headed
fellow with that look of worried con-
centration which many mechanics get on
their faces. Heinrich had given him
(quite contrary to regulations) a khaki
engineer’s overall to wear over his red
working clothes and he looked so much
like an Australian that it was astonishing
to hear him burst into quick Italian
speech, and to see his blue eyes flash
excitedly like the big brown eyes of the
other Italians.
He pointed to the magneto as if it
was a mere past detail of little import-
ance, and continued on his self-appointed
task of pulling more parts off the tractor,
parts which Alex had never dared pull
apart.
Hfe looked up, though, when Alex
turned the magneto and praised him for
the “plenti fire,” giving an abbreviation
of his usual delightful smile; then he
returned to the tractor with a worried
frown. He showed Alex some parts very
badly worn; “Consumare,” he called it,
“no good troppo consumare.”
He shook his head over it for a long
time until he discovered that several
grease nipples had been blocked, making
Alex’s daily greasing ineffective.
“Molto negligente Australiani,” he
said in a scandalised aside to Maringoni.
Maringoni whispered “Si, si,” as if it
was a self-evident fact that Australians
were very negligent. Neither realised
that Alex could understand them. He
said nothing, but he soon won their
respect by insisting that all parts which
were worn in the slightest degree should
be repaired or replaced with new ones.
Veracini became enthusiastic.
Since it was obvious that he would be
heartbroken if he could not see the job
through Alex phoned Heinrich again, and
arranged for him to come over each
morning until it was finished.
Alex left the men to work on the
tractor alone at times while he rode
over his farm. Wherever he looked he
could not help wondering what the
Italians thought of the things he saw.
Although his farm had the advantage of
a prosperous past and expensive “im-
provements,” the statement “Molto negli-
gente Australiani” kept recurring in his
conscience. He drew up a very extensive
list of repairs and renovations during his
rides.
I T took over a week to finish the tractor,
i Even all the dents in the mudguards,
and bends in rods and stays, normally
considered as natural developments in
the life of a tractor, were straightened
out. Then they painted it. Next day,
after they had a triumphant remon-
stration in the paddock, Maringoni
approached Alex, obviously with some-
thing qn his mind,
“Trattore very good, Mista Denoom,
ma, poseebile two, tre month, plenti con-
sumare, me no mechanic.” fife paused
and eyed Alex calculatingly, while Vera-
cini stood by, listening intently, “Ma,
Veracini stop farm Mista Denoom,
trattore no consumare.”
Alex realised it was a sound idea. A
man like Veracini would save more in
repair bills than the pound a week and
keep which a prisoner cost, apart from
the value of his other work. But he was
quite sure that his bank manager would
not look at it that way. A few days ago
Mr. Stringer had sent a letter “arising
out of our conversation,” enclosing a
form, the filling of which was the first
step in undergoing an actuarial survey.
It required to know all his assets and
liabilities, the type and condition of his
farmlands, the acres of wheat and oats he
expected to harvest '(with approximate
yields), how many sheep he would shear,
how many fat lambs he would have to
sell.
It was Quite plainly opening the way
to a grimly businesslike future. Alex did
not burn it, because he knew that it
needed only one bad season to put him
in a position where the bank could put
pressure on him. He had put it in a
drawer of his desk labelled “for further
reference,” a drawer which he did not
open very often. He saw Maringorii
watching his face like a gravely expect-
ant Collie dog.
“No poseebile; Mr. Heinrich want
Veracini stop farm Mr. Heinrich,” Alex
said.
On the next visit of the P.W.C.C. truck,
however, he did mention casually to the
w.o. in charge that if ever Heinrich
was getting rid of Veracini they should
give him a ring.
“It’s not likely,” the w.o. said. “Hein-
rich thinks he’s a treasure.”
Alex did a shift on the tractor each
day while Maringoni hurried through the
chores, getting a good deal of dust and
grease on himself.
“No good,” Maringoni lamented, “No
similar in Italia.”
That went on for a couple of weeks;
then the Control Centre telephoned to
ask Alex if he still wanted the mechanic
Veracini. Alex irrelevantly and guiltily
remembered that he still hadn’t replied
to the bank ; then, obeying a very strong
reflex impulse, he answered “Yes.”
Veracini was delivered very definitely
in disgrace and he received a severe
lecture from the interpreter before the
C.C. truck left. But he worked very well
for Alex. Heinrich told him all about it
when they met in town.
“It started off all of a sudden. One
day he was happy and contented; the
next he was moody and sullen. I had to
dig him out of bed in the morning and
nothing went right all day. Next morn-
ing he wouldn’t get up at all. He said
he wasn’t sick, and would hardly answer
me. I didn’t know what to do, so I rang
the C.C. Captain Pillory came out full
of bounce, with a couple of sergeants
and the interpreter. All they could get
out of him was that he wasn’t going to
work any more. So they took him off
with only one blanket and shoved him
in the cells for four days on bread and
water (and he was a bloke who loved
good tucker). Then he said he would
workj but not on my farm.
“I just can’t understand why he turned
against me,” said Heinrich, scratching his
head and looking woefully puzzled all
over his big, honest face. “It was on a
Monday he started like that. I remem-
ber on Sunday he had some visitors (your
bloke was among them) and I never
heard such a lot of talk and laughing.”
(Continued on page 32.)
“Have you ever seen anything as snappy as this. Colonel?"
Fighter Pilot’s Mate.
Look! See the tiger! It lay asleep twenty years
Or played with toys and school-books; but
leapt awake , , ,
In a glistening sky, ready. And mauled by
wild fears, . ,
He twirled the horizon about his thumb and
finger
As a schoolboy spins his cap. H<e was quick
to steady.
To learn the mastery of eye and muscle.
The right button-pressure. And in a high ice
haze
He hunted with his eyes and guns ablaze.
Go ask the jungle. Whom should the tiger
marry ?
A gentle girl, corn-fair, web-haired and merry -
Her love was sunlight; swift about her face
Starling emotions fluttered. Them was the grace
Of sun w,ith rain. And while she walked or
shopped.
She’d sing above tight pain; but song and heart
stopped
Each time the post-boy passed her in a hurry.
i
Well, the war’s underground. And who can
blame him —
Cat whiskers shorn, delight locked up tn
hangar —
If he scorns saucer milk, seeks life, adventure
In pub and foreign arms? Would you have
her tame him ?
Now look again. Prize: find the missing girl.
At sundown I have seen a vivid eye,
Heard the branch break, the pad and feline snarl
Of beasts in their kitchen. But let her mother
sigh,
On elephants of grief, scorn, love and hate,
And scream for separation. She comes too late.
The tigress knows that she has found her mate.
The starlings have settled.
Still, if you wish to weep —
For sentimental endings are in fashion
Weep for young Tommy warm in his baby
carriage,
All licked and polished and reaching for the
light;
Weep for the child conceived last Saturday night
Between the claw and reconciliation.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


A large percentage of economic waste is
caused by the destruction of property by FIRE,
and while such waste cannot be eliminated, the
individual can avoid financial devastation by
making adequate use of the valuable and
necessary service rendered to the community
by Insurance Companies.
The prompt service given enables reconstruc-
tion to commence immediately, and is the
means of restoring to the workers employment
which might otherwise be lost to them.
The Australian public has been brought to
realise that the support of Australian indus-
tries by every individual is helping the country
generally to right its difficulties, but continued
patronage is necessary in order to reduce our
country’s “total indebtedness” and thus speed
the return to prosperity and financial stability.
FOR 68 Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Why drag around, dull, listless and sluggish?
Why tolerate that sick headachey feeling, that
miserable bilious condition? You must clear
your system of poisonous wastes before
you can feel right or be right. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, gentle in action, will
help promote the daily regularity so essen-
tial for toning up the liver and kidneys. The
ingredients are purely vegetable and act as a
general corrective of constipation. Try a dose
to-night and see how much better you feel
to-morrow. Ask for and insist on, Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
rm
fje
SMOKERS
Direct from Manufacturer to You
Special money-saving offer of high-
class toasted pipe tobaccos blended
with the best imported tobaccos.
RICH DARK MEDIUM PIPE
MIXTURE, 15/- per lb. Posted.
MEDIUM HIGH-CLASS PIPE
MIXTURE, 13/6 per lb. Posted.
HIGH-CLASS TOASTED READY-
RUBBED FINE CUT TOBACCO,
17/- per lb. Posted.
Make your post box your nearest store.
Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERMANY’S NEW ROLE.
In its July 15 issue “World Report”
stated; “Western Germany’s days of
poverty are numbered.” This reflects
the U.S. State. Department view—the one
most likely to prevail, despite difficulties
still to be overcome.
The view was also put forward in the
latest directive sent a few weeks ago by
the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff to the
American military commander in Berlin,
Lieut.-General Clay. Dealing chiefly with
“the necessity of giving Germany a re-
vitalised economy,” that directive laid
down;
The United States Government seeks the
creation of those political, economic and moral
conditions that will contribute most effectively
to a stable and prosperous Europe.
“In effect,” N.Y. “Times” commented,
“the order was a ‘green light’ for General
Clay to go ahead with steps necessary
to restore German production. The
United States and Britain have already
decided to permit a doubling of the in-
dustrial output of their zones.”
There are still differences between the
U.S. view and the views of both Britain
and France. On a typical, comparatively
minor, difference with Britain, N.Y.
“Times” London correspondent Raymond
Daniel has reported;
Having a Labor Government at home, the
British favor socialisation in Germany, but the
United States position is that this issue is one
for the Germans to settle themselves by demo-
cratic processes when their political development
permits it. However, Britain’s shortage of
dollars is so acute that it is doubtful whether
she can continue to bear her share of the burden
of feeding the Germans, and it is unlikely that
she will hold out for the principle of sociali-
sation so long as American financing of the
Ruhr takes the form of public rather than
private loans.
Britain’s “dollar crisis” was alarmingly
reported in cables on July 29, but if in
any way news in Britain it is an old story
in America, where it has been widely dis-
cussed for at least the past six months,
much of the comment decidedly acid.
“Wall-street Journal” Washington corres-
pondent Jay Reid stated on July 14 that
the Marshall offer “came just in time to
save the Labor Government in London
from the anguish of applying for another
loan.” It is a most compelling force in
Britain’s policy in Germany.
Much the same applies to the issues
raised by France. “Christian Science
Monitor” Washington correspondent
Neal Stanford reports that “France’s de-
mands, as understood in Washington, are
for security, priority in help, and renewed
efforts to get Russia back into the fold,”
In regard to this last, it can be said that
America, official and unofficial, has had
more than enough of trying to “get along
with Russia,” and now holds that if
France and others care to go on deluding
themselves that it’s possible, that is their
pigeon. As Stanford reports the official
stand: “As Moscow voluntarily wrote it-
self out of the Marshall programme, only
Moscow can write itself back.” Mean-
while, “The door is still open.”
Isolationism Shows Up
The same correspondent mentioned, re-
garding France’s insistence on security,
that “American officials are known to be
considering offering France a defensive
alliance,” such as was offered to Russia
but turned down by the Kremlin. Re-
garding France’s insistence on prior aid,
this runs into “fundamental American
objections”:
It is the American position that the Ruhr is
the key to European recovery whether one likes
it or not —that France will obtain more help
by letting the centre of Europe’s economy be
restored than by stopgap aid around the edges.
These and other such difficulties, how-
ever, would probably disappear overnight
if it came to a point where the alterna-
tive was no American aid—a much more
likely alternative than those inclined to
haggle over the Marshall offer would
seem to realise. There are many reports
of increasing isolationism in the United
States. A Washington report in N.Y.
“Times” on July 20 stated;
Isolationism has reappeared on the national
political scene. To many close observers here
today it stands threateningly across the path
of such large-scale programmes for the economic
rehabilitation of Europe as presumably would
be embraced in the Marshall plan.
The correspondent further stated that
“few Capitol observers deny that the spirit
of isolationism has reappeared with
astonishing vigor.” They are getting very
tired there of endless U.S. spending in
Europe. It has much to do with the
changed plans for Germany.
Ironic Change
Under those plans, the grim irony of
things as they have worked out, a strong
Western Germany industrially is now in
me making; necessary to
offset the agricultural weak-
ening of the country by the
Polish annexation and Rus-
sian occupation in the East,
and also to help bring about
the recovery of Europe be-
fore all goes down in chaos.
Supporting this change in
U.S. policy, but arguing for
more frankness regarding it,
George E. Sokolsky, in
N.Y. “Sun,” declares that
“the real purpose of all the
manoeuvring in Paris is the
reconstruction of Europe
with Germany at the centre.
That is what we are get-
ting at.”
It is not a matter of any
sudden sentimental forgiv-
ing of the Germans. It is
simply the hard driving
facts of necessity; recogni-
tion that the industrial
strength which sprawls idle
now like a crippled giant
over Western Germany is
indispensable to practically
all Europe.
There is also as a driving
force the hard fact of the
“Marshall plan,” which
puts it squarely to the par-
ticipating war - damaged
countries of Europe that ad-
vancing any further U.S,
dollars towards their re-
covery must be conditional on mutual
agreement among them to do some-
thing about helping themselves and
each other. The participating countries
are now drawing up the report on their
joint and individual requirements and
assets. It has to be presented in Washing-
ton by September 1. In the words of
“World Report”:
Leading nations of Europe who helped to
crush Hitler’s Reich two years ago are now
more interested in qualifying for U.S. dollars
than in punishing Germany. As a result,
Germany’s conquerors are studying plans to
stimulate industry in the former enemy land so
that Germany once again can play the role
of dynamo for Europe’s economy.
What it will amount to —a staggering
reversal from the Morgfenthau days of
policy based on vengeance, with no con-
cept whatever, or only a childlike one,
of the most obvious forces of economics
—is that Germany is actually to be “one
of the chief beneficiaries under the
Marshal] plan to revive Europe's
economy.”
The Occupation Failure
Apart from the main driving force of
economics, it has long been evident that
the kind of occupation agreed to among
tire disagreeing Allies has been in all
quarters an utter failure. A frank ex-
posure of the different elements in that
failure in each of the four occupation
zones has been made in London “Fort-
nightly” articles by Dr. W. Friedmann,
who a few months back was appointed
to the Chair of Public Law at the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, after having been
with the Military Government of Ger-
many for about two years.
“The success or failure of that gigantic
experiment,” Dr, Friedmann contends,
“cannot be measured by cheap compari-
sons or phrases, such as: ‘Think what
the Germans would have done,’ or ‘They
have asked for it’ The only proper
measure is the task set the Allies when
they entered defeated Germany, as
masters over the fate of a big and highly-
developed country, more absolute than
any victors have ever been.”
The task was, first, the joint govern-
ment of Germany “as an essential step
towards Allied integration and super-
national government”; secondly, the
conversion of Germany into a peacefully*
minded, reasonably-contented but not
menacing country. But, “the accomplish-
ment of these tasks demanded a width
of outlook, a clarity of purpose, an art
of government and administration and a
spirit of devotion without comparison.”
With those essentials lacking, the bal-
N.Y, "Times.”
COAT OF MANY COLORS .
ance-sheet is a bad one, both for the
Allied nations jointly and for each of
them separately. Instead of the Allies —
or former Allies —being made to appear
to the Germans as a powerful force to be
respected and an example worth emulat-
ing, the failure of the occupiers to get
together or even to do a passable job
separately has given the Germans the
impression of their split-up country as
merely a symbol of Allied disunity. In-
stead of winning the Germans, by ex-
ample, to democracy, the occupation has
confirmed a great many in a retained be-
lief in Nazism.
Moreover, “the Germans know that
the four Allies depend on the success or
failure of their German administration
no less desperately than they themselves.
They [the Allies] have linked their own
mutual relations, their prestige and, to
a large extent, the peace of the world with
it.”
Why Each Failed
The reasons for failure, as analysed
by Dr. Friedmann, are:
The Russians failed mainly owing to three
factors: The total collapse of discipline, especi-
ally during the first six months, the indis-
criminate but often contradictory character o
then- economic policy, the mixture of industria
reconstruction and destruction due far mor
than is generally believed to conflicting Ru
sian policies; and finally the realisation by th
Germans that the Soviet attitude towards in
dividual hberty was fundamentally akin to tha
of the Nazis.
. The French, bent as before mainly on th
mcorpoiation of their zone of occupation int
the French orbit, have failed again in the:
attempt to persuade Germans of the blessing,
of being Frenchmen. They have, on the whole
the easiest zone to administer: the zone leas
destroyed and most thinly populated, with th
rich Saar territory in it. Their failure is mainl
due to the indiscipline of their troops and th
openly-professed objective of getting as muc
as possible out of their zone, regardless of th
consequences.
Economically, both the Russians and th
French have undoubtedly got something out o
their zones. The net benefit of the thousanc
ot machines and factories dismantled and trans
ported to Russia and France respectively ;
sadly out of proportion to the damage suffere
by German industry. The very manner o
dismantling made many machines useless from
the start, and the transport, in conditions o
chaos, often took many months, spoiling
large proportion of the machines which die
not get lost on the way.
The Americans have done their best, and
not altogether without success, to introduc
their conception of democratic institutions Bu
no one can pretend that their occupation force
. lived up to the ideals of a superio
civilisation. Before a special currency wa
introduced for occupation troops, the amoun
of money sent home by the American occu
pation forces, in one month, was three time
the total pay owed to them. Generosity, in
discipline and rapaciousness are strangely
mingled. But the greatest difficult is the menta
gulf between the average American and the
European problem.
For the first year of occupation the British
alone seemed to have won the genuine respec
of the Germans. They were, on the whole
reserved but humane and seemed essentially
intent on keeping the rudiments of life going
or restoring them. There was little corruption
The last year has brought a radical change:
this is due to four factors. For two of them
the British have only limited responsibility
First, in the zone which has by far the biggest
concentration of ruined towns and destroyed
industries, the influx of nearly two million
old people, women and children from the East
has been disastrous. But the British Govern-
ment could not help this, once it had given
its fateful assent to the de facto frontier with
Poland running along the Oder-Neisse line.
Secondly, the British made a psychological
mistake in doing everything, during the first
year of occupation, to keep industry going on
the substantial accumulated stocks of raw
materials, while starting to apply the dismantling
policy and closing down of industries in the
second year when the physical and mental
reserves of the Germans were exhausted and
their readiness to accept such measures was
far smaller. The Russians and French here
have a psychological advantage in having been
ruthless at the very beginning. There is, how-
ever, thirdly, an undoubted deterioration in
the British personnel, both civil and military.
This is hardly so at the top level; but the
trained Military Government officer and the
disciplined veteran soldier have been replaced
by a mass of second- and third-rate business
men, and by young troops whose first period
of active service means barrack discipline in
duty hours and absolute power off duty. Lastly,
initiative and improvisation have been replaced
by an incredibly complex bureaucratic system
handled by a conglomeration of people inferior
in quality and integrity to the trained Civil
Service at home.
The Mass Expulsions
In assessing the total failure. Dr. Fried-
mann finds that two facts overshadow all
others, both in their economic and
political consequences and in their psy-
chological effect upon the Germans: the
mass expulsions from Eastern Germany
and Czechoslovakia, and the disintegra-
tion of Germany into four zones.
The immediate effect of the expulsions
from the East—their long-range effect in
the implanting of bitterness and hatreds
is incalculable—is that “the richest grain-
producing area in Central Europe is
today a wilderness, while the people who
cultivated it are an unwanted addition to
the overcrowded West, mainly to the
British zone”:
Hundreds can witness the desolation of the
East which the Poles are unable to fill with
adequate numbers of settlers. Of the three
million Sudeten Germans, the Czechs have ex-
pelled about two-thirds, realising at last that
they were not equally guilty, and, above all,
that many of them were among the most skilled
craftsmen, engineers and farmers. But the prac-
tice, recently adopted, of retaining the skilled
men, while continuing to expel their families,
is not much superior to the practice of the
Nazis. Even a fusion of the four zones of
Germany could not today produce anything


BABY
LOVES
to revel In the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap. It
keeps his tender skin
heal thy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
trlo-Cuticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
530
BOOKS FOR THE DISCERNING READER
ISI.ES of despair, by lon L. Idriess.
One of the most thrilling and amazing of all the true stories connected with
the early days of settlement in Australia. 9/6 (post. 4d.).
BRINDLE ROYALIST, by Henry G. Lamond.
An unforgettable picture of outback Queensland, and the life of men and
beast on the big cattle stations. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
THE BOOK OF MUSICAL KNOWLEDGE, by A. Bison.
An encyclopedic illustrated guide to Music. Instruments, Orchestra,
Symphony, Opera, Lives of Composers, etc. 21/- (post. 1/-).
THE THCRBER CARNIVAL, by James Thurber.
A selection of concentrated brilliance, wild humour, and innocent wisdom.
12/6 (post. 7d.).
TWO BOOKS FOR CHILDREN
SUSAN AND THE BOGEYWOMP, by Lawson Glassop.
Pilled with fantastic characters, this story of unusual charm has the
inconsequence and unexpectedness of Alice in Wonderland. 7/6 (post.' 3d.).
PUMPKIN THE PUP, by Ursula Bloom.
A story of the circus, peopled with many quaint and humorous personalities.
11/6 (post. 5d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
approaching self-sufficiency in food, because th
bulk of Eastern Germany is outside [held y
the Soviet occupation and by the Poles,
Soviet backing, though the boundary line i
not considered as final by either Britain
Psychologically, it is impossible to exaggerate
the effect of the mass expulsions on the Ger-
mans. There, to the minds of both idealists
and cynics, is a living and ever-present vin-
dication of the Nazi theory that victory means
only a turning of the tables and that the woist
thing is not to make war but to be beaten.^
Dr. Friedmann sums up on the varied
methods of the occupiers:
The Russians have vacillated between a policy
of utter spoliation of their zone and a partial
economic reconstruction, the latter policy being
advocated by the Russian Military Government,
the former by Moscow. The French have gone
for downright exploitation of their zone, and
this may alter only in the case of the baar,
which they now consider to all intents and
purposes as French. The Americans have
executed the most radical turnabout, from the
insane Morgenthau plan of complete de-
industrialisation (including the closing down
of coalmines) to the Byrnes policy of restoring
the German economy to reasonable prosperity.
The British have, in principle, pursued a policy
of moderate reconstruction from the beginning
but have been far top weak and inconsistent
in carrying it out.
Reviving German Industry
Along with those joint and separate
failures of the occupation has gone the
steady drain on British and American
taxpayers. For the British —by far the
worst sufferers in this —the burden has
become insupportable ; by the Americans
it is increasingly resented. Giving a
friendly hint which “the French might
well weigh,” N.Y. “Times” manager
Edwin L. James has stated:
There is a limit, which next year [Presidential
election year] may become more definite, of the
amounts the United States will spend in Europe.
We have already invested $20,000,000,000 in
European peace, and while it is our present
intention to spend more in the implementation
of the Marshall plan, it is just as true that
much depends on what Europe can do for
herself and, in the minds of our Government,
German industrial ability should work as a
factor.
“World Report” states that the revival
of that industry is now to proceed on
these lines:
German industry will be allowed to wmk
at about 75 per cent, of the 1936 production
rate, instead of the 55 per cent, level set last
year by agreement of the four occupying
Powers. It is possible that the restrictions
will disappear entirely in the next two years
because of Russians’ refusal to throw their zone
into unified operation with the others.
Germans will have an implied promise that
the plants required to meet the new level will
not be taken away as reparations. Now in
preparation are lists of factories, once intended
for shipment out of the country, that will be
allowed to remain.
The types of exports allowed out of Germany
will be increased. Germans will be allowed
to ship heavy chemicals, machines, iron and
steel goods as well as the coal, precision in-
struments, cameras, chinaware and toys they
have been selling. All Europe wants spare
parts and replacement machines from Germany.
The German revival will not be limited to
the heavy goods that other European countries
require. Officials are becoming convinced that
Germany’s basic industries will not pick up
speed unless consumer goods are made avail-
able as an incentive to farmers and labor. The
result may be a revival in every peace-time line
of German industry.
On that revival of German industry,
“Wall-street Journal” Berlin correspon-
dent Joseph E. Evans comments:
Where does all this leave the old idea of
security through economic disarmament? Not
quite in the ashcan, but fairly well on the way
to it. Anglo-American planners emphasise that
the new plan will no more overlook the need
for security than it will that for reparations;
in other words, there will still be prohibited
and restricted industries. It is just that one
does finally have to make a choice —a choice
between economic ruin with theoretical political
security (the argument for this kind of political
security was never very convincing even on its
own merits) or the chance of economic recovery
with the concomitant danger of leaving too
much war potential in Germany. The planners
hope that the new level of industry will be
not so much a direct choice as a compromise
between the two.
What is now accepted—at any rate by
U.S.-Britain —is simply that, “Once Ger-
man industry prospers, this biggest in-
dustrial Power on the Continent of
Europe can lead the way to general
European * recovery.” Conversely, with-
out that revival there cannot be that
recovery. Hence the changed role
planned for Germany; an extraordinary
reversal from what most were led to be-
lieve would happen, but evidently the
only way out of chaos for a Europe over
whose diseased body the vultures are
hovering.
SOVIET-NAZI PACT.
Hitherto it had been generally accepted
that the German-Soviet pact, which more
than any other single agency started the
guns firing in 1939, was arranged on a
Hitler-Ribbentrop initiative.
That the first move in arranging the
pact came from the Kremlin was, accord-
ing to N.Y. “Daily Mirror” Berlin corres-
pondent George Herald, given out by one
of the Allied historians making a study
of documents from the archives of
Hitler’s Foreign Office. The study was
ordered by the U.S., Britain and France,
and the results are to make up a number
N.Y. “Herald Tribune. "
COUNTRY DOCTOR.
of historical volumes being prepared
for publication in 1950.
The German Foreign Office papers,
Herald reports, “were the only files not
introduced at the Nuremberg war crime
trials.” They disclose that the actual
first move towards the pact was made by
the Soviet Charge d’Affaires in Berlin, in
February, 1939. He broached the pro-
posal to Baron Ernst von Weizaecker, then
Senior State Secretary at the German
Foreign Office, the Soviet representative
stating:
“Soviet foreign policy is not motivated
by ideologies, but solely by interests.
There is no conflict of material interests
between the Soviet Union and the
Reich, therefore a mutual agreement is
desirable.”
The documents show that the Germans
did not react immediately. According
to the files, the first German advocacy
of such an alliance was put forward by
Goring in a conversation with Mussolini
and Ciano in April, 1939. A few days
later the Germans notified Molotov that
they were interested in the Soviet pro-
posals.
The Russians opened parallel negotia-
tions with the Germans and with the
British and French, all on the same day.
In July Hitler had one of his “crises”
and ordered the Foreign Office to “term-
inate negotiations immediately and call
the whole thing off.” That was one
occasion on which the Fiihrer was not
taken seriously. Ribbentrop continued
the negotiations until their successful
conclusion.
The correspondent quotes the Allied
historian as further stating:
The Germans were informed all along about
every detail of Anglo-French discussions with
Russia by means of excellent secret service.
Thus they managed to “outbid” British Prime
Minister Chamberlain “at the right moment.
The ultimate reason for Chamberlains failure
to come to terms with Russia was this: Cham-
berlain wanted to save Poland, but how could
he and at the same time give half of Poland
to the Soviet? „
The Soviet accepted Germany’s better otter
because it believed war was inevitable and
thought it could stay out that way. The files
definitely establish German and Russian war
guilt.
Finally, the correspondent quotes his
historian informant as stating: “This
time was not like 1914, where doubts
could be raised. This time the files show
the Germans deliberately were bent on
aggressive war and the Soviet aided and
abetted them.”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
British-French Strength. One argument in
America in opposition to the Marshall plan is
that the U.S. is bolstering up a Western Europe
that' is done for anyhow. Against this diehard
isolationist view, a N.Y. “Post” European cor-
respondent points out that, “Not counting
their Empires, France and Britain together have
a population of 85,000,000. That’s more than
Germany had before the war. If Belgium and
Holland are added, the figure goes over
100,000,000. France and Britain have also a
high industrial potential. If the Ruhr were
internationalised and made the nucleus of a
Western European economy, this potential
would be increased. The possibilities are
enormous.” France, since the launching of
the Marshall plan—rather, since Marshall and
Bidault were together in Moscow, where they
probably discussed that plan—has given in-
creasing evidence of readiness to co-operate
with U.S.-Britain. That, in the “Post” writer’s
view, is vital: “The key to Western Europe
is France. Whether we like it or not, this is
a fact. It’s a geographical fact. Without
France, Britain can do little or nothing on the
continent of Europe. Nor can the U.S.”
* * * *
Gem of Debate. —In a “brisk gallop” through
the mazes of the U.S. Congressional debate on
aid to Greece, the “Saturday Evening Post”
came across a gem. Attacks on Greece for
being undemocratic having irked Senator
Brewster, who had spent some time in Greece,
that Senator produced copies of Communist
papers published in Athens, in which Stalin
was praised and Truman blistered. To this
evidence Senator Taylor responded that his
impression was “that publication of such papers
was permitted in order to impress people with
how fair they [the Athenians] were.” The
“Post” commented: “This takes us back to
the archaeologist who proved that the ancient
Egyptians had wireless telegraphy because he
found no wires in the tombs of the Pharaohs.
It also suggests a possible explanation for
Soviet Russia’s refusal to permit anti-Communist
newspapers to flourish in Moscow. Stalin must
be attempting to conceal from the world the
tolerant and democratic nature of his regime.”
* * * *
Italy Battles On. —Though so far it is what
has been called a “cold war,” the struggle
between the “Truman doctrine” and Com-
munism is as intense in Italy as anywhere. In
the view of Washington “Post” Rome corre-
spondent M. W. Fodor, the Truman side has
the better weapons—money, food, seed for a
starved agriculture and coal—and, as well, the
general mass of Italians, despite the political
shakiness of their country, are working harder
than most Europeans towards their own re-
covery. Italy’s Foreign Minister Sforza told
the correspondent: “Go around the country
and see how people work. If you will find
a square yard of arable land untilled, call me
a liar. You know,” Sforza added, “that is
not the case in France.” The correspondent
does not expect any dramatic change in Italy’s
steady progress. He recalls art Italian Com-
munist leader going to Lenin in 1921 and
promising to “revolutionise Italy,” to which
Lenin said: “Fool! And who is going to give
you coal?” The situation, the correspondent
comments, has not changed; the same question
could be asked of present Communist leader
Togliatti. Another sign of steadiness noted is
“the growing inclination of the Italian masses
(except the extreme Left) to a more conservative
policy.” “Supporting the present policy of
companies between Right and Left,” the cor-
respondent concludes, “means a thorny way,
with many crises ahead, but ultimately Italy
will work out her destiny.”
* * * *
Uncle Sam, World Cop. —With the failure
of U.N.O. to produce anything even remotely
resembling the “world police force” that was
optimistically planned, and with J. Bull’s
troubles forcing him to get rid of as much of his
world burden as possible. Uncle Sam, as
“United States News” puts it, “is being forced
to take over the main part of the job of world
policeman.” Uncle Sam’s commitments are
certainly widespread. As well as his being
“sole trustee” —a U.N.O. euphemism for “sole
owner” —of three strategic island chains in the
Pacific and holding Atlantic bases under the
99-years agreement with Britain, “American
military missions and liaison teams are showing
up in Iran, Great Britain, Latin America, the
Philippines, New Guinea, China and Canada.
Plans are made for sending - such teams to
Greece and Turkey. Arms standardisation,
on the U.S. pattern, tends to go along with
these missions. U.S. armaments now appear
in the hands of Britain, Canada, Australia,
China, the Philippines, Latin-America nations
and India, and will go to Greece and Turkey.
The U.S., with British co-operation, already
is in a position to police all of the world’s
non-Russian areas. Further, U.S. bombers
from existing bases now can cover the areas
under Russian control. That air coverage is
supplemented at present with U.S. bases in
occupied Germany and Japan.”
* * * *
Europe in the Shadow. —Looking at the Euro-
pean scene, N.Y. “Sun’s” very sound columnist
George E. Sokolsky sees it largely as a mass
of peoples who, still in the shadow of war and
in fear of another war, have given way to it
all as inevitable: ‘‘Most are reduced to clods.
Hunger, persecution, fear, break down the will
to hold ideals high. Hungry men fight for
bread alone. Starving mothers think of starving
children. Tire faith of a people can be stamped
out for generations by the brutality of govern-
ment and the assurance that hopelessness is the
only goal in life.” Unless what has happened
to the minds and spirits of millions of Euro-
peans is understood, “it is impossible even
to approximate the trends in their conduct.
Why do France and Italy march so swiftly
into a barbarous world? Why has even Great
Britain, the mother of free institutions, taken
on the characteristics of a Socialist State? Why
does Christianity seem to have no power of
resistance to the great darkness that is envelop-
ing Europe? The answer.,is hunger, fear and
hopelessness. A continent is committing suicide
because it has become as accustomed to death
as to life, because fear has replaced hope,
and ideals of living have given way to begging
for bread.”
* * * *
German Patents, Etc. —The taking by Russia
and France of practically everything movable
that they could lay hands on in their German
occupation zones and thought they could put
to use is well enough known. Not so much
publicity has been given to what U.S.-Britain
have taken. In one of his excellent articles
in London “Fortnightly” dealing with the
occupation failure, Dr. W. Friedmann stated
that the amount of open reparations taken by
U.S.-Britain —except for certain items such as
merchant shipping—“is very small in relation
to the burden of keeping the zones fed. One
qualification is needed; hidden reparations, in
the form of patents, trade marks and, above
all, thousands of special machines taken away
for the use, more often than not, of specific in-
dustrial competitors, are substantial and should
be accounted for as an'item of reparations
Many hundreds of German firms feel that the
result of the work of generations has been
taken away from them, often by disguised com-
petitors under thin official pretence, and the
psychological effect far outweighs the material
benefit.”


K
m
■
-
H
• -
, :
:■
m
m
m
■
M
PSlSiiiii
■
iiiii
m
m
i
if
p|
' ffi
im
mm
ii
,'yWr.
mmm
m
X- .
m
m
m
i.-: :
5 V
IT WAS RE-NAMED “RAYON”
JT WAS at the 1900 Paris Exhibition that Courtaulds first interested themselves in the
the viscose process of manufacturing rayon yarn, the British rights of which they later purchased.
Subsequently, they became the first firm in the world to make a commercial success of rayon.
Success did not come easily. Disappointments and set-backs beset the path of progress: but
if genius be indeed an infinite capacity for taking pains, then Courtaulds’ scientists and technicians
of those days deserve to rank high in the order. Patience, perseverance and financial fortitude
brought their reward, and in due course the original Courtaulds rayon was made available to
the public.
In those early days scientists were trying to emulate the silkworm, in much the same way
as the first motor cars were designed as imitation “horseless carriages.” But later, it was realised
that “artificial silk” was a misnomer; it was neither artificial, nor was it silk. So the name was
changed to rayon in the 1920’5, and to-day the old term is obsolescent.
the largest rayon Manufacturers in the * British Commonwealth
Distributors overseas of Courtaulds Fabrics s Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
Distributors in Australia :
victoria: Samuel Courtauld & Co. (AuBt.) Pty. Ltd., new south wales: Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
oueensiand- Frit r Miw in i^ rS T7 j ane, j lb ° u ™ e :. Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND, Erik B. Milne, 172 Edward Street, Brisbane. south Australia: K. T. Flint, 178 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA : A. C. Mackie, Economic Chambers, 76 William Street, Perth.
Distributors overseas of Courtaulds Rayon Yams : Lustre Fibres Ltd., Coventry, England.
Distributors in Australia :
N.s.w. : Vance & McKee Pty. Ltd., 235 Clarence Street, Sydney. victoria : Vance & McKee Pty. Ltd., 40 William Street, Melb., C.l.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3521
Wednesday, August 6, 1947
DUTCH KNAVE OF HEARTS ON TRIAL.
[Canberra Version, a long way after Carroll and Tenniel]
Queen Chifley: “Sentence first; verdict afterwards; never mind the evidence!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
BRITAIN AND AUSTRALIA.
In London last week you could buy a
Government bond of the January issue,
bearing interest at 2\ per cent., for
£B7 10s., plus a bit of brokerage, if it was
a broker’s transaction. That’s how things
are in Britain, and they are going to be
worse before they get better.
National expenditure is exceeding
national income at the rate of nearly
£700,000,000 a year. The American loan,
which was to have lasted three years,
looks like being exhausted within the
first 12 months. Coal production, on
which so much depends, persistently re-
fuses to hit the Shinwell “target,” though
it was never much of a “target.” Sur-
veying the position with grave, though
belated, thoughts of the effect on the
Australian economy, the Chifleys “con-
sider that the fight for recovery will be
a battle of years, and doubt whether
Britain can ’pull through and remain a
significant international Power.”
There is no occasion for the Canberra
tail to droop as much as all that. Britain
has endured worse crises and pulled
through. Though further belt-tightening
is a certainty, and though there will be
pitiable consequences to people who
have already suffered much, the nation
cannot _ go down unless it loses its
courage, and that will be never. Britain
will always be “a significant international
Power,” Apart from the wars and their
effects, which are serious enough in all
conscience, the worst of its present
troubles arise from the fact that there has
been thrust down its throat quack
medicine familiar in Australia, and that
without any mitigating or delaying effects
such as this country owes to its favorable
export position; above all, to the world-
wide demand for the produce of its
greatest industry.
Britain has a “Laljor” Government of
course, and in its “Labor” party practical
men are at a discount, like the February
loan. This is its composition in the
Commons:
Trade-union officials 124
Publishers, journalists and authors . . 48
Municipal politicians 45
Barristers and solicitors .. 41
Businessmen 41
Schoolmasters 34
Co-operative employees 12
Doctors and dentists .. .. 12
University teachers .. 10 ,
Farmers 10
Army, Navy, Air Force officers .. .. 5
Miscellaneous 5
Civil servants .. 3
Free Church Ministers 3
Policeman .. 1
Somewhat different from the composi-
tion of our Federal “Labor” party, ex-
cept as to the proportion of trade-union
officials ; but the collection started with
the samfe general views as to the greed and
ineptitude of capitalists and its own
capacity to transform its country “in
our time” into a socialist commonwealth
in which everything would be efficient
and everybody ’appy.
What would our Federal “Labor”
party have done in a corresponding situ-
ation, supposing it had had only two
brief periods of office in 40 years, neither
long enough to rid it of its socialist
moonshine?
It would have introduced the five-day
week on the coalfields “to increase pro-
duction.” It would have reduced work-
ing hours in other industries. It would
have “taken over” the Bank, the coal-
mines, Cable and Wireless, railways and
road haulage, and have unsettled other
industries with vague plans for “taking
over” them. It would have grabbed
every foreign loan offered and raised all
the “cheap money” available on the home
market without regard to the reckoning.
It would have multiplied the number of
officials. It would have raised Parlia-
mentary salaries. .All this, and more,
British “Labor” has done, with devastat-
ing results.
British “Labor” might have learned
from a study of Australian statistics that
Government ownership of railways is a
short cut to the bankruptcy of those con-
cerns and that “socialism in our time”
spells prodigious and ever-growing masses
of Government employees with vast in-
dustrial and political power, which in this
country—particularly in the transport and
clerical fields —is increasingly exercised
by Communists, Instead, it looked to
“the Dominions” for guidance and assist-
ance in the annexation of Cable and
Wireless. The inspiration came from
Canberra.
There have not been so many strikes
or so much “absenteeism” in “Labor”
Britain as there have been in “Labor”
Australia these last two years, one reason
being that the T.U.C. has guts, the
A.C.T.U. none. But every now and then
there are “unofficial” strikes, especially
on the waterfront, centre of the concen-
tration of Communist hate in every
English-speaking country infested with
Stalin’s agents, and “absenteeism” is on
the increase, especially among coalminers.
For ,once the wofkshy have a pretext
for being workshy in that the food is
monotonous and unsatisfying. But it is
better, if anything, in the mines than in
trades where hard and excellent work is
being done, the motor trades especially,
so that excuse won’t wash. Which is not
to say that the general food position
capnot be improved; and improved it
should be to the greatest extent possible
from Australia, with the Government
adopting as its own the sound construc-
tive measures proposed by Dr. Page. It
would be some atonement, however tardy,
for the initial churlish opposition of
Food Controller Murphy and Minister
Dedman to the sending of food parcels;
and that great work of humanity—expres-
sion of the real Australian spirit—could
be greatly expanded if the Postmaster-
General, who is rolling in easy money,
arranged for a 50 per cent, reduction
(even if he had to bear it himself) in the
heavy cost of postage, which presses so
hard on good people of small means.
By an odd coincidence which will
doubtless be noted in London, while Gov-
ernment ownership ofi coalmines is al-
ready a ghastly failure in Britain Queens-
land “Labor”—first of the litter to go in
for “nationalisation” on a Targe scale,
including even fish-shops in its operations
—is arranging to give “British interests”
a vast Blair Athol coal concession. At
the same time it is sending a Labor and
Industry man round the North (he is
Director of the Secondary Industries
Division) with a new gospel: “The Gov-
ernment does not intend to launch any
more State enterprises.”
It realises that industries are urgently
needed in the North. It is up to the people,
by their enthusiasm, to encourage private
enterprise, which will be fully supported,
financially and otherwise, by the Government.
So far so good. Unfortunately, the evils
of Government ownership live after it,
and the industrial progress of Queens-
land was arrested for many years by the
crazy Ryan-Theodore experiments, ac-
companied as they were by threats to
other industries and followed by savage
taxation. And whereas Mr, Hanlon has
seen the light, Mr. Chifley seems set on
wiping out airline companies and private
operators, and freight-rates have been
bumped up in Queensland and South
Australia, with N. S. Wales and Victoria
to follow immediately, in a desperate
attempt to make the Government rail-
ways solvent.
There is one warning to Australia in
the British emergency, if Canberra and
its instruments are capable of receiving
warnings and profiting by them. Going
to Queensland, the Governor of the Com-
monwealth Bank, full of plans for “180
new banks throughout Australia, with a
tremendous increase in staff” —antici-
pated consequences of the doubtfully
constitutional measure compelling muni-
cipal councils and State Governments to
transfer their accounts to the Common-
wealth Bank —made a cheery reference
to “full employment”:
While full employment exists in Australia
1931 depression conditions cannot be re-
peated. " Every man and woman prepared
to work can get a job today.
So they can in Britain. Britain has “full
employment.” In fact, as Mr. Calwell
has discovered, possibly to his chagrin,
it has a great labor shortage. But it
lacks an Armitage to move it to derisive
laughter by pointing out that having “full
employment” (nature, quality and output
immaterial) it can’t possibly go bung.
Abdication to Communists.
There has never been anything more
abject and disgraceful in Australian
political records than the surrender of
the Chifley Government to Communist
union bosses over the Dutch-Indonesian
quarrel. It was revealed in Brisbane, in
an order sent from the Stevedoring In-
dustry Commission in Sydney to the Bris-
bane port committee, instructing it not
to receive from employers any applica-
tion for waterside labor for Dutch ships
“in dispute.”
The Stevedoring Industry Commission
of war-time still functions pending pro-
clamation of the tribunal established by
recent legislation to regulate waterside
labor. Its chairman is a Conciliation
Commissioner, and one hailed as an
exemplar of the appointments the
Government .would make under the
new amending Arbitration Act, which
in effect abolishes the jurisdiction of the
Court in industrial disputes and sub-
stitutes that of a swarm of new Concilia-
tion Commissioners. On the committee
are three representatives of shipowners
and three Waterside Workers’ Federation
men, the Communists Healy and Roach
and “another” —probably one of the
Communists who recently regained control
of the Sydney branch from the “mode-
rates,” of the McGirr-defended strike.
In the light of the official direction —
the implications of which are many and
profound, and all of them alarming—its
antecedents should be fully examined.
When the vDutch took action in Indo-
nesia, the Chifley Cabinet was unable to
make any representations which might
fairly have come from a neutral Govern-
ment interested only in offering counsels
of mediation. Its “very favorable atti-
tude” was stressed in wireless messages
from “our Indernesian comrades,” who
also addressed appeals for intervention to
India, Britain, the U.S.A. and principally
Australia.
Federal “Labor’s” previous acceptance
of the 22-months boycott of Dutch-Indo-
nesian shipping imposed by the Com-
munists of the W.W.F. had wrecked
whatever chance there was of its media-
tion being accepted by the Dutch. While
the Prime Minister fumbled about, Com-
munists clamored for immediate banning
of all Dutch shipping and Canberra
“pressure” on the Dutch.
These pathfinders for violence and dis-
order did not even wait to gauge the
effect. They proceeded to act at once as
though they were the Government.
Healy’s lieutenant Roach, whose contact
with the Indonesian extremists and the
Australia-Indonesia Society, together with
that of the other Healy, formerly Mc-
Cracken, who is secretary of the Brisbane
Labor Council, is complete, announced
that his union’s ban on Dutch-N.EJ.
shipping had been extended to cover all
Dutch shipping plying between Australia
and Holland or anywhere else —pas-
senger, freight and mail services; and
that the ban, as extended, would con-
tinue “until the Dutch troops leave Indo-
nesia and Indonesians regain their full
freedom and recognition.”
The Canberra “Government” was well
aware, especially with Dutch ships from
Holland waiting (one at the entrance to
the Brisbane River to discharge a cargo
for Australia), that employers could not
possibly lie down under this impudent
assumption of the watersiders’ union,
and would apply for labor to handle the
Grootekerk’s cargo. Whether or not they
had time to do so, on the heels of the
Roach announcement came the instruc-
tion from the Stevedoring Industry Com-
mission to the Brisbane port committee,
on which there are three branch bosses
of the Waterside Workers’ Federation.
The immediate effect is clear. The
Chifley Government surrendered to
union pressure and took sides against the
Dutch. Whether this is, in diplomatic
parlance, an unfriendly act will be for
the Dutch to construe. That it is an
embarrassment to the British Government
is already plain. Britain in its extremity
is engaged with, Holland and other
Western States in a joint effort for
economic reconstruction of Europe.
Other consequences of the Chifley
Cabinet’s surrender are full of menace
for peace and good government in in-
dustry. It has intervened in the jurisdic-
tion of the Stevedoring Industry Com-
mission simply and solely to appease the
wharfies once more. Shipowners have
not forgotten that the “Government,”
in November, 1944, upset an administra-
tive decision of this Commission which
deregistered certain wharfies, with the re-
sult that the chairman, then Chief Arbitra-
tion Judge Piper, and the deputy-chair-
man promptly resigned. The Communists
on the waterfront thereby were con-
firmed in their defiance. Doubtless their
representatives on the Commission shook
their big stick at the “Government’s”
representative , there. The compound
arbitral-administrative tribunal took its
orders and affirmed the Communist ban
without consideration of anything, so far
as appears, save political expediency.
This sort of judicial tribunal is as far
removed as the poles from the
authority which the Arbitration Court
insisted upon upholding. During the de-
bate on the Arbitration Bill, passed last
session, every effort of the Opposition to
preserve for the Court —or, failing that,
for the Commissioners who were to re-
place the Court —the dignity and inde-
pendence it has won were rebuffed by the
Attorney-General, who is also Minister
of External Affairs, and by other
Ministers. The assertions of these
Ministers that they were not destroying
the arbitration system as we have known
it were most indignant—even while it was
obvious that they were sabotaging that
system in sheer submission to union
blackmail. Witness Senator McKenna’s
defence of his “Government’s” refusal to
call for volunteers on the Sydnfey wharves
to load cargoes for Britain which the
wharfies at the time would not load, and
whose strike was marked by Communist
mob violence at a public meeting, called
by State Opposition members with the
authority of the State Administration: --
This is not a matter for the Government
but one for the body which has been set
up for the express purpose of dealing with
waterside operations. Were the Govern-
ment to call for volunteers it would be
usurping the function of the very body
set up to control this industry.
That was in aid of showing how impartial
and independent of political influence the
new “streamlined” arbitration, under a
swarm of Conciliation Commissioners in
place of the bench of Judges, was going
to be.
The waterfront Communists have now
blown that “Labor” pretence full of
holes, and the new arbitration system
along with it. They have made it quite
clear—and got away with it—-that the
waterside tribunal exists to give them
what they ask for and accept any ulti-
matum they may issue; and this in the
name'of arbitration. And all the proba-
bilities are that this rot will spread into
every other industry which is to be
fitted out with a Conciliation Commis-
sioner to regulatp its conditions. How
does the “Government,” which has twice,
with open eyes, and at the command of
the Communist union bosses, sabotaged
this Stevedoring Commission as an in-
dependent tribunal, propose to save all
its tribunals under the new system
from a similar fate? Is there not
justification now for the suspicion at the
time which greeted the Attorney-General's
refusal, against all argument, to allow
any appeal from a Conciliation Commis-
sioner’s finding, even that which the exist-
ing Arbitration Act permits from a single
Judge to the Full Bench?
The Commos have persistently pro-
claimed their aim to destroy arbitration.
With the connivance of the Chifley “Gov-
ernment” they are now doing it, with the
utmost impudence and in full sight of
every citizen. “Labor” is not only unfit
to govern ; where union bosses and mobs
are concerned it does not, by all appear-
ances, even wish to govern.
Parkes.
July 25 was the 108th anniversary of
Henry Parkes’s arrival in Sydney, though
he did not land that day. Days elapsed
before he could go ashore with his wife
and three children —one “bora in all the
misery and squalor of that overcrowded
ship”—to “a little low, dirty, unfurnished
room without a fireplace,” in which he
found himself “without threepence in
the world and no employment.” M. D.
McLaurin has written, and Whitcombe
and Tombs have published, a book about
him/ When it goes into a second edition,
as it should, some typographical faults
will need to be corrected; but these are
minor blemishes: by and large, it is a
very good book.
Few immigrants have ever been so hard
up as Parkes was when he came to
Sydney, and for years afterwards; and
none has done more to shape the destinies
of his adopted country. McLaurin quotes
a letter to Sarah Parkes:
When I had nothing to eat, and no means
of getting it in the wild hush, a convict
brought me a share of his rations.
Another convict, Barrington, is, rightly
or wrongly, credited with the authorship
of the wittiest couplet in the world:
True patriots all; for, be it understood,
We left our country for our country’s good.
Henry’s convict benefactor is worthy
of equal immortality.
McLaurin gives a glowing account of
Parkes’s chequered fortunes as laborer,
journalist, public man, merchant, bank-
rupt, squire of dames, immigration agent,
friend of Tennyson and Carlyle, versi-
fier, Premier (five times) and constructive
statesman, ending as founder of Federa-
tion. More of his verses would be
appreciated, not because they were good,
but because they were bad; so bad
as to be almost unique. But the lines
“To Eleanor,” his second wife, are re-
produced. In 1889 “under the rigid code
of Queen Victoria,” Eleanor, made an
honest woman 12 months after the death
of Clarinda, “was not acceptable as a
guest at Government House.” Her hus-
band was then in his fifth Premiership,
and to Lord Carrington he wrote a letter
at which Melbourne and Palmerston, who
had their own “entanglements,” would
have rejoiced;
Sir Henry Parkes regrets that he cannot
accept the invitation of His Excellency the
Governor to dinner on May 24. He owes
it to his wife, whatever the occasion, not
to enter the door that is closed against
her, but he desires at the same time to be
understood as not seeking a reversal of
her exclusion, while he insists upon sharing
any indignity to which she is subjected.
The best of Parkes’s recorded speeches
on Federal Union are reprinted in this
volume, and they are grand speeches. It
was at Melbourne in February, 1890, that
he uttered a sentence which has passed
into the currency of the language - “The
crimson thread of kinship runs through
us all.” At Melbourne also he said, hav :
ing been accused of republican views:—
The flag of a United Australia means to
me no separation from the Empire. Let
it not go forth for a moment that in seek-
ing complete authority for our own affairs
in this fair land of Australia, we seek any
separation from the Empire.
Unfortunately his greatest speech on
Federal Union, delivered at Tenterfield


~ IQ tSBQ was “very badly
on October 19, 1889 was v y
reported.’ But wrote
was present and the Engl rough
of speech and speaker tha
homely features were as eloque
words; for the first time me v
of an authoritative statesman gave
soul and utterance to the aspirations or
a people .... Truly memorable and not
without a touch of sublimity.”
Brave old Henry 1 What a bio-
graphical film his career would make!
As it happens, film-producers are set on
(hemes like the overrated episode of the
mem, iik w ; t h the
Eureka Stockade (no ■x nd
Communist Eureka Youth - 8 )
the one in which a pugilist with a
Wilde haircut” (shades of Parkes s COI \
temporaries Larry Foley, Slavin an
Fitzsimmons!) is to be the hero or
of the heroes,
PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor" and U.N.O.
Without consulting the British and
American representatives or without
heeding their advice, Australia (which
means Dr. Evatt’s External Affairs De-
partment) asked the Security Council of
the so-called United Nations, invoking
article 39 of their charter, to order the
cessation of hostilities in Java.
The Communist bosses of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation had already pre-
judged the issue and imposed sanctions
by way of a boycott of Dutch shipping
in Australian ports. And before the
Dutch took action to end a situation in
which neither life nor property was safe,
Britain and the United States had
warned the Australian Commos’ “Inder-
nesian comrades” that the Dutch case
for honest performance of the Cheribon
agreement was fair and reasonable.
Australian delegates at U.N.O. have
consistently advocated fact-finding com-
missions for the better information of
that polemic-minded body. One of these
commissions proceeded to the Balkans to
inquire into and report on the invasion
of Greece from Albania. The facts it
gathered were accepted by all parties ex-
cept Communist Russia and Communist
Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and Albania. These
countries refused to accept them, and
Russia came in with a veto just before
“Australia” moved in the Java business.
And Russia is certain to come in with a
veto if the Security Council report, if
any, on the proceedings in Java and
Sumatra is favorable to the Dutch.
It will be interesting to get the views
of China, one of the five major Powers
on the Security Council, on whether
“Labor” is right in assuming that the
Indonesian fireworks are an international
and not a domestic affair. In China, as
well as on the Balkan borders. Com-
munists are waging civil war. And as
Chiang’s Government has indignantly
testified, “our Indemesian comrades”
have killed many Chinese and destroyed
many Chinese properties in the Nether-
lands East Indies.
"Slowly Strangled."
Who and what are “displaced persons”?
Australia, as the R.S.L. leaders in Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales ace insisting, has
a right to know, since Mr. Calwell has
undertaken to bring out droves of them
from Europe, regardless of cost, of the
housing position and other considerations.
But he has dodged giving the definition
asked for, and going on favors already
extended to Jews from Europe, Shanghai
and Palestine, and requited in Tel-Aviv
with the naming of a Calwell street, it
may qui(e fairly be inferred that many,
if not most, of his “displaced persons”
to be introduced in masses will be Jews.
“Displaced persons” is certainly the
Palestine-Jew designation for Jews in
Europe. This was shown when a foot-
ball team from Palestine arrived in
New York, where Ben Hecht and his
associates are carrying on a murder pro-
paganda against the British, to play a
series of matches. There was a
newspaper conference at which Chaim
Glovinsky, “president of the Palestine
Football Association,” was one of the
speakers, and the New York “Times” of
April 11 reported the gentleman in these
terms:
We have two missions. One is to close
the door of our goal to the ball on the
Soccer field. The other is to open the
door of Palestine to displaced persons.
In the hell which the Jewish terrorists
have made of the Holy Land, backed by
Hecht and other criminal agents of
provocation whose own hides are safe,
an atrocity as fiendish as anything in
history came to light last week. Two
young British Tommies, both sergeants,
had been kidnapped as a “reprisal” for
the death sentence imposed on three
Jewish gunmen, who were executed. The
sergeants, blindfolded and their hands
tied behind their backs, were found
“hanging from a eucalyptus-tree in a grove
three miles south-east of Nathanya,”
itself a few rftjles from the city of blood
which has the Calwell street. They had
been “slowly strangled.” When their
comrades came upon the dreadful scene
some of them were injured by the ex-
plosion of mines and booby-traps; the
latter, hidden in the sergeants’ clothing,
such as it was, “blew pieces of the bodies
over a wide area.”
Months ago it was here suggested that,
in the interests of Australia, as well as
Britain, it should be laid down as a
policy that no European Jew from any
staging place would be admitted to this
country until the terrorists and their
financiers called off the murder cam-
paign. If such a proclamation is not now
issued, Australians who have been horri-
fied .by this latest and most ferocious
Jewish outrage will want to know the
reason why, nor will they be fobbed off
by Calwell equivocations.
Crippling Their Pinions.
Having reduced the R.A.A.F. to a
parody, “Labor” is bent on wiping out
private commercial flying. Imposition of
THE FEATHER-STRIPPER.
“Back in Australia after one of his family trips abroad, Mr. Drakeford, who attends to
Civil Aviation as well as the R.A.A.F., announced special taxation of airline operators, who
already pay petrol tax calculated on a road basis.”
“Now see if you can fly!”
savage charges) for the use of civil aero-
dromes, succeeding the establishment
of T.-A.A., staggered private airline
operators and public alike. They were
still staggering when the N.S.W. Mc-
Girrs, their railways threatened with a
loss of £7,000,000 in 1947-48, came out
with a proposed tax on airlines opera-
ting within their State.
From now on the following Common-
wealth charges must be paid by com-
mercial aircraft: —
Sydney to Melbourne, Adelaide or Hobart,
DC3 £4 14s. 6d., Skymaster £l3 15s. 6d.;
Adelaide to Perth, DC3 £9 95., Skymaster
£27 11s.; Sydney to Tamworth, Anson
11s. 3d.; Brisbane to Charleville, DC3
£2 7s. 3d.; Adelaide or Melbourne to
Broken Hill, DC3 £2 7s. 3d.; Perth to
Wiluna, DHB9 7s. fid.
According to the wandering Drake-
ford these are but examples of the
charges to be inflicted, and he
holds that they won’t “seriously affect
developmental air services in the more
remote areas.” He added that Govern-
ment-owned airlines would pay—as a man
pays himself rent for using his own
garage.
Meantime, private airline operators,
after waiting up to two years, learned
that 23 new “feeder-line” air services
would be granted permission to start
flying. The long wait had filled most
of them with suspicion as to the designs
of the Government show, a sus-
picion confirmed when the new Com-
monwealth charges were announced and
when neither Mr. Drakeford nor Mr.
Coles would say whether or not
T.-A.A. would be an applicant for any
of the new routes. Nor is either gentle-
man at all willing to discuss the financial
position of T.-A.A., which will end its
first year’s operations in October. It be-
gan with a grant of £3,000,000, but no-
body outside it knows how it is faring—
though many can guess.
Mr. Drakeford holds that since private
airlines use “facilities” provided 'by his
department they should pay for them.
Superficially a just ‘claim until the
charges and other charges are studied.
A.N.A. alone has paid £2,000,000 in
income tax in seven years and £1,167,000
in petrol tax since 1944. It estimates its
yearly petrol tax at £360,000 and re-
minds the Minister of an assurance that
petrol-tax receipts would go towards the
upkeep of civil aerodromes. Mr. Dralce-
ford’s Director-General of Civil Aviation
was above subterfuge:
The money raised by the new fees will be
devoted to the maintenance of airports,
now costing £1,300,000 a year... .Money
from the petrol tax has been earmarked
for aviation purposes.... But this revenue,
plus the new charges, is only about half
the cost of the service now provided free.
When he heard that, Mr. Walsh
(A.N.A.) remarked caustically that it was
time someone else was given the job of
looking after the ’dromes and that,
though American airlines paid landing
fees, they paid no petrol tax and that
their landing fees decreased as the num-
ber of landings increased, whereas the
Canberra charges would remain fixed.
Enter Mr. O’Sullivan, the Sydney
Transport Minister, with authority to
prepare a bill to tax planes.
If people want to travel by air, all right.
But passengers and freight should not be
carried to the detriment of the railways.
The tax will be used in the same manner
as the tax collected on both passengers and
freight from road-users who compete with
the railways; it will go to the railways!
This the manager of New England
Airways described as “the last straw” for
private airlines—“We cannot continue
paying, these burdens ; all we can do is »
to pass them on.”
Questions and Answers.
“Tummas McNark”: One of the things
that madden me is the way the crowd
at Canberra, overstuffed with tax-money
and hungry for more, keeps on paying
out for big advertisements urging me to
“Save for Security.” One of the adyts.
spread over a half-page of my morning
paper asked me seven questions and
supplied answers. If I could have
answered it would have gone like this:
(1) Do you ever buy goods at more than
fixed prices?—How do I know? Must I
carry a huge tome of Prices Commission
orders about with me?
(2) When did you last buy a luxury item
you didn’t need? —You must think I’m a
bookie or a blackmarketeer.
(3) Have you drawn money out of the
Savings Bank lately?—Yes. I had to so
as to square up with the tax people and
it left my account tottering.
(4) Do you gamble—at cards, horses,
poker machines? —A group of us used to
play threepenny solo. Now we play with
beans at 3d. a dozen. Still, if our security
is threatened we could make it Id. a
dozen.
(5) Do you know the fixed legal price
of the everyday commodities you buy?—
Where can I buy everyday commodities?
(6) Do you spend carelessly without
realising that better values wjil be available
in the future? —Well, I’m hoping to get a
Government job soon, so it doesn’t really
matter.
(7) Have you bought Bonds or Savings
Certificates in the last three months? —See
reply to No. 3.
I was just kidding myself on this
effort when the wife showed me a full-
page advertisement in her woman’s
weekly paper. It had a picture of a
poker-machine, cum warning;
In these machines and by other methods
of gambling, hard-earned money and honest
savings are being carelessly squandered.
I’m posting it to Premier McGirr, in
whose State I live. Premier McGirr’s
Government runs a lottery almost every
day of the week at ss. 6d. and 10s. a
ticket. It brought a turf club into exist-
ence ; it is about to bring in night-trot-
ting ; it authorises Sunday football at
which beer flows and betting is rampant;
it encourages dog-racing, and it makes no
more effort to suppress the growing s.p.
“industry” than it does to stop strikes
that deprive half Sydney of milk.
California Was Different.
Rosehill was the one Sydney racecourse
which didn’t suffer occupation by troops
during the war. In 1942 an A.M.F. unit
moved in, to the consternation of officials
hastily summoned to the scene of the
outrage. There was an offstage noise
of strings being pulled furiously, and
the troops were hustled back to their old
address the very same day.
Rosehill emerged from the war un-
damaged. With returned servicemen and
their wives in thousands of cases sleep-
ing under canvas and in garages and
huts, Mr. McKell’s war-time creation the
Sydney Turf Club proceeded to pour
bricks and other building materials into
“improving” Rosehill. There were more
elaborate stalls for the horses and,
among other things, a great circular
concrete tower. For this the S.T.C. was
fined £lOO, a “punishment” which hurt
nobody except the official put to the
bother of signing the cheque. No pro-
ceedings were taken against a good-as-
“ Labor” building contractor who had
got 123,250 bricks from the Govern-
ment brickyards for Rosehill and no
questions asked.
There wasi recently a vaguely similar
case in America involving Tanforan,
a proprietary racing club in California.
Tanforan’s racecourse was used during
the war as a Japanese detention camp.
When the U.S. Navy handed it back the
company, making illegal use of building
materials, proceeded to restore it for
racing. It soon found itself in
court. To the McKell Turf Club case
there was no other parallel.
Tanforan —the club —was fined 90,000
dollars!. Its president, secretary and the
building contractor were each fined 7500
dollars and three months in jail. The
construction foreman was fined 1000 dol-
lars and a month.
Unhappily for those concerned,
Tanforan and instruments didn’t have a
“ ‘Labor’ Government” behind them.
Soap and Sugar.
Of old, when something festered
on a finger or there was a pain in an
awkward part or a rash broke out on the
back of our neck, mother used an in-
fallible remedy. She smeared thick
brown kitchen soap on a clean rag,
sprinkled it liberally with Queensland
sugar, worked it into a stodgy mass and
slapped it on the seat of trouble.
It was guaranteed to draw out all
.foreign matter, from a splinter to a four-
inch nail, together with the pus and “bad-
blood,” and soon the patient would be
healed and cheerful.
Not many mothers could make a soap-
and-sugar poultice today, because in heaps
of households “there ain’t no soap an’
there ain’t no sugar.”
What has happened to these commodi-
ties is merely a corollary or accompani-
ment or echo or something of what has
happened or is happening or about to
happen to other things sorely needed—
from tintacks to tobacco, eggs to electric
motors, bricks to billycans. The material
itself or the stuff from which it’s made
or the means to make it aren’t lacking,
but, what with strikes and shorter hours
and “go-slow” and blundering “Labor”
Governments) slapping “priorities” on
this and “controls” on that and en-
couraging “workers” to regard them-
selves as front-line fighters in the war
against the boss —whether the boss be a
private person or the Government itself
—the material isn’t being made, or if
made isn’t being transported, of if trans'-
ported isn’t being distributed ; and so on.
And rioting through all this festering
mess go Communists and their serfs,
boring into industry and commerce
and spreading the infection and slowly
but surely poisoning the nation with
the virus of the loafer, the sponger,
the waster and the mad revolutionary.
What the country needs is an equivalent
of mother’s old remedy—that and some-
body with the guts to mix a thumping
great poultice and slap it hard on the
affected parts and leave it there until the
foul matter is drawn out to the last iota.
“Labor” will never do it. “Labor”
wouldn’t be game to put a poultice on a
sleepy lizard if the lizard held a union
ticket.


m
n
m
r
A
é
CARRERAS LTD.-—-OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
i
6576
POLITICAL POINTS
Zero hour for the compulsory transfer
of municipal accounts from trading banks
to the Commonwealth Bank was fixed
at 10 a.m. on Friday, August I—Monday
was a bank holiday—as far as Chifleys
and Armitages could fix it. But well be-
fore that hour Barwick, K.G., counsel
for the Melbourne C.C., and other legal
men filed into the High Court at Sydney,
Latham, C.J., being on the Bench, and
applied for an injunction restraining the
Commonwealth Government from forc-
ing the change until the constitutionality
of the relevant clause of the Banking Act
had been decided. The CJ. granted the
injunction in most precise and emphatic
terms. It is the nastiest facer Chifley has
had since he became P.M.
Chief Justice Latham in the Common-
wealth Bank case;
It is difficult to conceive why August 1
should be a critical date for the defend-
ant’s purposes.
Surely it is most undesirable to take any
action under a law while the Court is
carrying out its duty to interpret that law.
It is surely further undesirable that the
Court should have to grant an injunction
when a commonsense view could preclude
such a course. _ Failure to preserve the
status quo in this instance might seriously
prejudice the plaintiff and other interests,
including all banking business and the
Commonwealth itself.
So “22 municipalities and shires in Vic-
toria and 104 in N. S. Wales” went on
exercising their right, which in most cases
was theirs before the Commonwealth and
its “financial institution” were thought
of, to keep their accounts in the banks of
their preference.
John Leahy, founder of the Queens-
land C.P., its immediate past-president
and a life member, got mixed up with
two cousins, W. J. Low and D. A. Low,
in the Cooroora part of the State elec-
tion. D. A. Low was official C.P, candi-
date and won the seat. Leahy supported
the other Low, “unofficial” C.P. candi-
date, objecting to the pre-selection. Now
the party has “expelled” Leahy—the first
time it has ever expelled a member—
and Leahy threatens to contest Carnar-
von at the next election to prove some-
thing or other.
If the McGirrs ever considered diver-
sion of the Snowy waters into the
’Bidgee as a grand unemployment-relief
scheme they’ll have to think of some-
thing else. The Commonwealth Commis-
sion which examined the N.S.W. propo-
sal and a Victorian one, to divert to the
Murray and use the water for hydro-
electricity and irrigation, has plumped for
the Victorian project. It annoyed the
Sydney papers so much that none of
them referred to it.
The Hanlons have bought Culwulla
Chambers, Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
for £175,000 and will use two floors as a
tourist bureau. Hanlon calls it a good
investment. What might have McGirr
worried is whether Hanlon can use this
Queensland property in Sydney to sell
Queensland lottery tickets, “foreign”
lottery tickets being barred in the McGirr
State as in the Hanlon State.
At Wonthaggi, the Victorian coalfield
run by the State Government at a huge
annual loss, the miners objected to a
weighman waiting for the water to drain
out of the coal before he weighed it, and
demanded his dismissal. A weak-kneed
Minister of Transport, Stoneham,
ordered his removal. The manager pro-
tested on the ground that he had given
the order that the weighman obeyed.
The Minister then “decided” on an in-
quiry into the point at issue if and when
work in the mine was resumed. The
men rejected this prbposal, apparently on
the principle that weighmen should be
penalised for obeying the orders of those
who employ them. N.S.W. miners, all in
accord with this* principle, talked of a
sympathy strike.
Thus Playford, who when off the chain
cultivates his garden, as Voltaire or
somebody advised:
Bureaucratic pinpricking, industrial
wrangling, high taxation and unnecessary
controls all sap the confidence of the
people. So, too, does the practice of
running round the country saying that
there will be another depression.
Now who’s been doing that?
While these “Labor” Governments
persist in gassing about Australia’s great
“potentialities” and “future development,”
two of them aim at throttling progress,
each for its own ends. The Canberra one
to kill competition with its airlines, the
Sydney one to kill competition with its
railways.
All Government transport concerns
lose money. All become inefficient when
competitors are forced out. All eventu-
ally regard themselves, not as services but
as privileged little autocracies whose con-
duct and administration are beyond the
reach of complaint or criticism. And all
become double brakes on the wheels of
progress.
The only way of ascertaining the real
causes of strikes and lockouts is to have
them inquired into by an impartial per-
son accustomed to weighing evidence,
such as a Judge. This the Playford
Government is proposing to do. But
“Labor” fiercely objects, and Bardolph, a
“Labor” M.L.C., shouted on Adelaide’s
equivalent of Yarra Bank that “the fight
will take place on*the floor of the House.”
There was another Bardolph, who stood
before a prince saying, “My lord, do you
see these meteors? Do you behold these
exhalations?” The prince, as unim-
pressed then as Playford is now, mur-
mured something about their portending
halters.
In an Act of 1914 it was provided that
Maoriland’s nominee Lefe. Council should
be made elective, but it never has been,
and it has survived periodical threats of
abolition ; one more has come from the
Opposition. In theory all persons qualified
to vote for the House of Representatives
are eligible for appointment as Ms-.L.C.;
but “Labor” restricts its favors to Valued
Members of the Party, excluding even
servicemen. Sutherland, an Opposition
M.H.R, from North Hauraki, reviewing
the last 21 appointments—more than half
the number—said 20 of the worthies had
been “trade-union secretaries or trade-
union bosses” with “conscientious objec-
tors among them,” but “not one
served his country overseas.” Same here,
Sutherland; same here!
One day’s lottery news from the
Sydney dailies:
State Lottery office will make a record
pay-out of £84,350 this week, as prize-
™oney for four lotteries, including the
No. 3 £12,000 special.
A derelict who won a first prize (£5000)
and spent it in six months pleaded guilty
to a vagrancy charge; three months’ hard.
The Deputy Director of Posts and Tele-
graphs said that large numbers of letters
containing lottery tickets and “literature”
were being posted to Malaya and Singa-
pore and there destroyed, being under a
legislative ban.
So the dingy business, destructive as it
is of thrift and a sense of responsibility,
makes Australia look cheap in countries
to which it claims superiority.
General Vasey’s widow, who has be-
come a pillar of flame in the cause of war
widows, scorched Minister Barnard again
the other night;
I have never felt so sick as on the day
he told me that many women had married
. during the war hoping their men would
never come back. What kind of men does
Mr. Barnard think the Australian fighters
were if they were supposed to have married
“tarts”?
The brave lady then cited cases of war
widows working at night and in the early-
morning hours to sustain their young
families, and going without their proper
rest to look after the children in the day-
time. Mrs. Vasey carries too many guns
for the Barnards and their rank-and-file
supporters who, asked to take up the
case for wa’r widows, “make excuses
which are a play upon words.”
For many years it has been the custom
of Broken Hill miners to betake them-
selves and families to Adelaide for
Christmas on a cut-rate fare, 30s. return.
When they heard that, in the desperate
plight of the S.A. railways, the fare would
have to be raised to £2 11s. 6d. the “picnic
committees” bucked and made tentative
plans to take the holiday in Sydney.
“Labor’s” Mr. Hartigan became excited
about it, but had to inform the miners
that he would have to charge them
£3 11s. 9d. second-class. The “picnic
committees” were still chewing that over
when the McGirrs announced an all-
round 20 p.c, increase in fares. It looks
like Adelaide or the bush for the Barrier.
Veteran Ms.H.R, thought Chifley un-
feeling when he vetoed any more resolu-
tions of condolence with the families of
deceased old-timers. They now agree
that it would have been awkward to apply
the old rule in the case of T. I. Ley,, dead
in Broadmoor asylum, though the circum-
stances were unique. In 46 years only two
Federal politicians have been jailed, and
neither was a Federal member at the
time; and no Federal member has suf-
fered disqualification as “an undischarged
bankrupt or insolvent.”
Just when the Tasmanian “ ‘Labor’ 1
Government,” following McGirr’s rotten
example, was about to introduce 40-hour-
week legislation, the Hobart dairymen
gave notice of intention to strike unless
they got more for their milk. It knocked
Premier Cosgrpve all of a heap. Rally-
ing, he said “I have no doubt that the
dairymen are entitled to an increase, but
I regret they have found it necessary
to resort to direct action.” Then, in the
grand old formula (“It’s a matter
for” ) and practice of “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernments” ho passed the buck to Can-
berra.
There will be nothing compulsory about
the Government’s free-medical scheme,
according to Senator McKenna. If a
patient doesn’t fancy the public-servant
doctor he may consult a private practi-
tioner, In short, the thing will be as
“voluntary” as the same Government’s
air service and bank. Nobody is obliged
to travel by a T.-A.A. airliner or have
his account in the Commonwealth Bank;
if these socialised concerns, backed by
Caucus laws and the new Money Power,
drive competitors off the market it will be
just too bad. A medico who has built up
a practice in a Victorian country centre
by sheer ability and interest in his
patients, none of whom is wealthy, ex-
pects to lose most of the patients the
moment the free doctor opens up for
business.
In the second week of a Sydney milk-
carters’ strike, started because a carter
had been sacked for what it is to be
hoped are odd habits, and featured by
outright defiance of the Industrial Com-
mission and of the union itself, there was
an “Industrial Relations” conference at
Canberra. It had been summoned by
Chifley as a “Peace-in-Industry” confer-
ence, but the A.C.T.U. objected to this
title, and also demanded preservation of
the right to strike,” which was supposed
to have been abandoned 40 years ago
when the,unions agreed to enter the “new
province of law and order.” In the
sequel there was issued a very long state-
ment beginning with the words “Increased
production is essential.” Chifley, it seems,
is in favor of it.
At U.N.O. Gromyko tabled an
amendment to the Indonesian resolution,
proposing that both sides should with-
draw to the positions they occupied be-
fore the hostilities. It was defeated.
Next day it was reported that the Dutch
had accepted the cease-fire order, but
that the Indonesians would not accept
unless both sides withdrew behind the
demarcate lines fixed in October, 1946
Holland is prepared to accept Unde
Sam as a mediator; Indonesia wants
ritam, since the Dutch won’t accept
Australia. Any offer from America k
suspect in Russia, but, of course, no one
ti ea r ? f su 88 esti ng that what
Russia thinks has any effect on “our
Indernesian comrades.”
About the only sensible point about
Canberra s handling of the Indonesian
situation is the apparent curbing 0 {
iY ar ?r S xT a^ bltl ° n t 0 shove his oar into
the U.N.O. proceedings. It would have
been a great opportunity for the Pad-
Pet to tell the world “How I
freed New Guinea from the Soap Barons
and Kept Australia Dirty.” 5
Chief Arbitration Judge Drake-Brock-
man, referring to certain applications for
reduction of hours under Federal awards
said they would have to wait till the
nST °t the , 4 °- hou r case was coin-
To „^ slc us t 0 de al with them
at this stage, he said, “shows the dread-
ful position that has been produced bv
x?cw a . a r Ctlon in v New South Wales.”
N.S W. Mmister Hamilton Knight had
the face to reply that the “dreadful posi-
tion had been brought about by the
Court s delay it had in the main been
caused by the number of union “appear-
ances.” Ham. Knight went on:
If the Court had dealt promptly with the
application for a 40-hour week there would
not have been any need for N. S. Wales
... .to take other action.
In effect, not only were the merits of
the application prejudged and the Court
expected by the N.S.W. “Government”
to give the unions what they demanded
but the said “Government,” intent on
giving the electors a bribe, refused to
wait even for the event on which it thus
counted. To such depths has “Labor”
descended.
Nearly everything of significance in
the Parliamentary career of Joseph Cook
happened during winter months:
TT Ju ! y ■*» 1891.—Elected M.L.A. for
Hartley (N.S.W.).
i«oQ ly 4 7, 1 , 894 >/“ ly 24 > 1895 > July 27,
1898.—Re-elected for Hartley
August 3, 1894. Named PostmaSler-
General.
x>£r U £ USt . x 2 7-’ • 1898.—Transferred from
P.M.G. to Minister of Mines.
June 2, 1909.—Became Deakin’s Minis-
ter of Defence.
June 24, 1913.—Sworn in as P.M. and
Mmister of Home Affairs.
Jffjy 9, 1913.—Meets Parliament as P.M.
July 30, 1914. —Dissolves Parliament for
the double-dissolution election.
August 4, 1914. —Leads Australia into the
first German war.
July 28, 1920. — Ceases to be Hughes’s
Navy Minister; sworn in as Treasurer.
He died in Sydney on July 30. Billy,
was, of course, one of the pall-bearers,
and another was W. H. Kelly, the last
surviving member of the Cook Adminis-
tration. Others at the funeral were T.
H. Williams (M.L.A. for the Upper
Hunter, 1891-94) and Albert Gardiner
(MX.A. for Forbes, 1891-94, for Ash-
burnham 1894-95, for Orange, 1904-07,
and Senator for 16 years from 1910, be-
ing the one Laborite in the Chamber,
“leader of the Opposition” and every-
thing, part of the time).
The chief target of the U.N.O. babblers
meddling in South African affairs is
the Asiatic Land Tenure Act passed last
year. In India this has been called a
“Ghetto Act. 5 ' It is nothing of the sort.
It divides the city of Durban into “free”
areas, open to Europeans and Asiatics
alike, and “controlled” areas, mainly
European. Property already owned by
Indians in the “controlled” areas is not
affected, but other land may only be
sold to them with the approval of a
Board of five members,'Two of whom
are Indians.
Salary of Conciliation Commissioners
is to be £l5OO ; same as for Federal
members. Coincidence? Or a far-
sighted provision to ensure that defeated
“Labor”-party hacks won’t suffer any
diminution of income?


REDUCTION ON TAKING A QUANTITY.
“It’s only eighteen months since I put him on the treatment, gents, and look at him now!"


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
Alpha”; In a Japanese bookshop in
Kobe I was intrigued to find on a
secondhand shelf a Dummellow’s Com-
mentary on the Bible which had been
extensively and deeply studied by a
Japanese owner, for there were references
and comment nearly the whole way,
through in Japanese signs and script. The
only section where he had apparently
bogged down was in Leviticus, and I
must admit I’ve found the going hard
there myself. Alongside was C. E. W
Bean’s- On the Wool Track and Rolf
Boldrewood’s Robbery Under Arms.
Japanese, sandwiched in between sea and
mountain on their narrow coastal and
man-made plains, and accustomed to
small farmlets of half to one acre, must
find it hard to visualise a country where
a team of musterers could enter a man’s
property, erect holding and branding
yards, muster and drove off a thousand
of the owner’s cattle.
** * * ♦
“Findy”; Mention of a race between
pedestrians and the Fremantle Flier (B.
30/7/’47) set me wondering whether pas-
sengers on the last carriage of Port Line
trains still enjoy the spectacle of the
Adelaide platform gallops which in my
day never failed to raise enthusiasm.
Steam trains, being slower on the pick-up
than electrics, give the last-minute arrival
a sporting chance of overtaking them.
It s all a matter of how much start the
train has. Many a time I have dashed
through the gate and cantered down the
platform, to be hauled aboard by willing
hands. Many a time, too, I have galloped
m vain. It’s a humiliating experience.
You rush through the barrier, the porter
standing aside to give you a fair go.
The train, puffing slowly out of the
station, has perhaps 20 yards start on you,
and for a while you steadily decrease its
lead. When you are about five or six
yards off, going flat out and cheered on
by those standing on the little platform
at the rear of the last carriage, you
realise that you are no longer gaining.
For a few more strides you hold your
own ; then the gap between you and those
grinning faces begins to widen. The
cheers turn to jeers and the engine gives
a derisive whistle as you give up and sub-
side on a seat to await the next train.
It s a grand old custom ; I hope it hasn’t
died out.
* * * «
Billjim”: Unusual spectacle of workers
striking for more work comes from War-
wickshire. Bellringers of St. John’s in'
the ancient village of Knowle have
silenced the bells because of the vicar’s
objection to weekly practice peals inter-
fering with lectures. Belfrymen are in-
censed that the ukase.should break a tra-
dition that bellringers, being the best men
of the village, are above such edicts,
’i* ♦ jft
“Cedi Mac.”: Where did “Philip
Street” get his romantic tale about the
Beauforts’ possession of an unbroken
male line of descent (B. 16/7/’47)? Of
the sons of John of Gaunt and Catherine
Swynford (one of whom was the power-
ful Cardinal Beaufort) only John, Earl
of, Somerset, provided male heirs. He
died in 1410. His elder son and name-
sake, for whom the earldom was raised
to a dukedom, died in 1444, leaving only
one a daughter; and his younger
son, Edmund, took the title and the re-
' s P°nsibility of ensuring the continuance
or the male line. After Edmund’s death
on the battlefield of St. Albans (1455),
where he led a Lancastrian force, his
three sons were the sole remaining male
Beauforts. All, like their father, were in-
volved in the struggle with the Yorkists,
and all met violent deaths). Henry, the
eldest, was captured at Hexham and exe-
cuted (1463). John, the youngest, was
killed at Tewkesbury (1471), and Ed-
mund, last of his line to bear the title of
Duke of Somerset, was taken prisoner at
the same battle and beheaded the fol-
lowing day. In less than 100 years after
John of Gaunt’s death the male Beaufort
line was extinct. One more point;
Eleanor of Castile could never have been
married to John of Gaunt. She was his
great-grandmother, first wife of Edward
I. Gaunt’s first wife was Blanche of
Lancaster, who, according to the custom
of those days, brought her husband not
only all the possessions of the dukedom
but the title as well,
* * * *
“Aztec”: At the rear of my home is a
large paddock which during the war was
utilised by the Army, who set up a num-
ber of huts housing clerical staffs. It
was a self-contained unit—cookhouse,
sleeping Quarters and a fence on three
sides. Some months back a Disposals
squad stormed in, stayed a week and left
".... to love, honor and-er-obey !'
nothing but the fence. I needed a new
fence and ’phoned the Town Clerk for
permission to buy. Tie suggested contact-
ing the owner of the land and, when told
the council possessed it, said in a very
surprised voice, “Oh, does it?” He tele-
phoned back. The fence had nothing
to do with him; contact Disposals. We
did, to be told it was the Council’s busi-
ness but that a Disposals man would
come out and give us the right to pur-
chase. None came. Another call to the
Town Clerk. Yes, they’d send someone
to look it over. Finally the Council dis-
claimed all connection with the matter
and advised us to see Disposals again.
But by this time the fence had gone. And
if you think I wasn’t about when it went,
you’re wrong.
• • ♦ *
“Ex-Mister”: A fine old lady of the
sea went to her last resting place when
the stripped‘hulk True Blue was scuttled
to provide a breakwater for launches at
the Yarrabah (N.Q.) mission station.
Built in 1869 at Sunderland and rigged
as a three-masted barque, she traded
overseas for British owners under the
name Mathias. Bought in 1884 by W.
R. Cave, an Adelaide merchant, she was
for the next ten years on a trading run
between Adelaide, W.A., Mauritius and
South Africa. Steam competition laid
her up, and in 1896 the Adelaide Steam
Tug Co. bought her for lightering work
at Port Adelaide and Port Pirie. In 1944
True Blue was towed to Cairns as a
coal hulk and did useful war work there.
* * ♦ *
“Fancar”: Perhaps Norman Lindsay
is right in declaring that Dickens fell
short of Balzac because Johnson did not
measure up to Voltaire (R.P. 16/7/’47),
but could England, with Habeas Cor-
pus and revolutions behind her, pro-
duce a Voltaire as naturally as did
France of the Lettres de Cachet era?
Logically England should have produced
its Voltaire in the days between Shak-
speare and Milton, but with a prose too
immature and an England with its ele-
ments still in a state of fusion a Vol-
taire would have been wasted had he
appeared then.
* * * *
“Minto”: Monty was due to pass my
shop in ten minutes’ time. Customers
emptied into the street and I sent the
salesgirls out to watch the great man go
by. Only one woman remained, and she
wouldn’t budge, “Where can I get
served?” she demanded. I explained the
ten-minute closing, but it was useless.
“Montgomery,” she shrilled. “Never
heard of him. The only Montgomery
I’ve heard of was some soldier in Egypt,”
* * * *
“Buro-Krat”: Brisbane punters have
rebelled at last —called on the Prices
Branch to take action. But don’t think
the bookmakers are in for it. No one
would dream of questioning their prices.
No ; the trouble is that sixpence is being
charged for a cup of tea.
♦ * * *
“V.M.” : Those pars about ocean fore-
casts remind me of the author who went
to sea in a windjammer to get color for
his stories. In due course they ran into
rough weather. That evening he wrote
how the wind shrieked through the rig-
ging, how the great green combers
crashed on the deck, and how the
pitching vessel touched her yardarms into
the sea when she rolled. Next day he
happened to glance into the ship’s
and saw what the Old Man had recorded:
“Wind freshened, shipped a little sea.”
Chastened, the author tore up his text.
* * * »
“Bat”: Power black-outs have meant
a lot of cold or half-cooked meals for
me and they have often sent me groping
to the pantry in search of candle-ends,
but since reading a Sydney “Sun” cable
I am convinced that I get out of the
dimness lightly;
Lord Strathrarron, 23, who married Miss
Valene Cole last February, is seeking nullity
or the marriage.. . .The wedding was cele-
brated _ by candlelight at St. Margaret’s,
Westminster, during the electricity cuts.
* * * *
“Tutup Mulut”: Melbourne “Herald’s”
New Delhi correspondent has started the
silly season by cabling that there is go-
ing to be a unique demonstration at
Meerut, Central India, when Gandhi
reaches his 79th birthday in October.
The citizens of that town will hold a
79-day celebration, 79 men, 79 women
and 79 boys and 79 girls will spin 7900
hanks of yam in the 79 days, and all will
present the result and 7900 rupees to the
aged Mahatma. “Here,” continues the
correspondent, “is a scheme some Aus-
tralian town might consider worthy of
adoption—perhaps to honor the Com-
monwealth’s oldest statesman, Mr. W.
M. Hughes, on his 83rd birthday.” The
G.O.M. of Australian politics would
enjoy the joke if Warwick (Q.) adopted
the suggestion—B3 hens will lay 83 eggs
in 83 days, and 83 boys
* * * *
“Jobber”: About that hobby of col-
lecting railway tickets (B. 2/7/’47). On
leave in France during the Kaiser’s War
I bought a ticket in Paris for Nice. On
arrival I searched every pocket as well
as my wallet, but could not find it. One
of the Frogs could speak Australian and
I convinced him that my tale was true.
He let me through the barrier, but I had
to pay my fare back to Paris. A year
mrnS° aftGr Coming home the ticket
urned up among other souvenirs ; if that
bloke in Canada would like it he has only
to let me know, y
* * * ,
i Those casual Toorak
ladies of last month or 20 years ago who
hired a taxi to take them to Alice Springs
recall to me a friend who left Ireland
m the eighties. As he was getting his
luggage aboard the ship a lad standing
alongside the wharf with a diminutive
yoked t 0 a sma H ca rt asked
Where ye gom’?” “To New Zealand”’
was the answer. “Where’s that?”
Twelve thousand miles away in the
South Seas.” “Och, that’s a long way
m ireby,” said the lad. “Mould on an’
111 be wid you” ; and he went to the
shipping company’s office on the wharf
bought his ticket and stepped aboard in
what he stood up in.
* * * *
“Bombina”: Down in Sydney for a
change from sheep and gum-trees, I
headed for King’s Cross, At my query
tor a room, the desk clerk at the big
hotel twirled his key-chain in amusement
Working down, I finally found a place
with half a room to let, “and you’ll share
it with another gent.!” Meekly, I
accepted and found the quarters to be a
dusty chamber with a high partition at
one end showing light above it. I nodded
to my room-mate and turned in. Half-
way through the night the noise began,
coming like the light from beyond the
partition; “Glug, slup, 00-00-er,” it went
My room-mate declared “He couldn’t be
drinking beer. Too consistent.” When
the noise was still going strong at 2 a.m.,
I realised that my guess of extra-long
gargling operations was also a miss. It
sounded more like a never-emptying
bath-tub. My curiosity by then too
strong for sleep, I suggested we ask our
neighbor what the blazes he was doing
The other bloke thought it would be far
more satisfying to see for ourselves, so
we moved our bunks hard up against the
partition, stood on them and slowly
strained upwards. Another inch and our
eyes were level with the top. Then the
man in the next room switched his light
off, I took the next train back to Bom-
bina, where narks are rare.
* * * *
“Jemac”: Surely one of the most in-
teresting and important jobs women are
doing in Sydney today is that of the
girls working on chart corrections at the
Potts Point Hydrographic Branch. As
new lights and beacons are added or new
shoals discovered in the Yangtse Kiang
or Funa Futi atoll their copper-plate
green-ink letters record the change on
the relevant charts for the guidance of
all mariners. There is drama in their
work, too. While I watched a corrector
was handed an Admiralty Notice to
Mariners. She busied herself with
dividers a moment, measuring latitude
and longitude, and then on the eastern
edge of a reef in the Coral Sea she drew
a neat little figure of a ship, its stern
under water: it was the symbol for a
wreck. Somewhere out on that lonely
expanse a ship and a man had been
blasted—the story of his failure told
briefly for all seamen to see in that tiny
symbol from the hand of a girl from
Drummoyne.
* * * *
C.A.L.”; Wishing to build, an arri-
val from Perth was told of suitable
vacant blocks near a Kalgoorlie suburban
school. So he set forth in his car to look
around the locality, but, unable to find
any sign of a school, he hailed a passing
baker. “Say, mate,” he called, “could
you tell me where there is a school
around here?” “You won’t find one
here, Dig,” the baker replied, “the police
won’t allow one so close to town. You
will find it about a mile and a half on
the other side of Kal.; and you can get
‘set’ for any bet you like.”
* * * *
“Carlyle”: An unusual defence was
put up by the accused in an “unlawful
assault” case at Ararat (Vic.). Evidence
was given that a girl walking home from
a dance alone had been overtaken by a
car. As it drew level a man jumped out
and seized her. She screamed, and
struggled; a second man attacked her
and a passer-by came to her rescue,
whereupon her attackers released the girl
and drove away; but not before the
rescuer had taken their car number. He
told the court that both men had been
lifting the girl into the car when he in-
tervened. The two men admitted they
had spoken to a girl on the night in
question, but the driver claimed he had
not moved from the front seat. His
companion’s story was that he had got
out to look at a bad tyre, tripped on the
running-board and to steady himself put
a hand on the shoulder of a girl passing
by. The girl had screamed and fallen
to the ground. He re-entered the car and
they drove off. “Six months,” said the
Beak.
THE DOMINANT WHARFIES.
Who is it settles dictatorial^
Just what our foreign policy shall be
Towards our neighbors, and to whom of those
We should behave as friends, to whom as foes?
The chosen rulers of our land who’re sent
For purposes like these to Parliament,
Chifley and Evatt, and the rest who tell
Just what they ought to do to Bill McKell,
Are these the men who really run the show?
In theory, Yes, of course. In practice, No.
They know, none better, when for safety’s sake
Orders to give, and likewise when to take.
To keep their jobs they’ve little chance or choice
Unless they listen to their Master’s Voice.
From where? Well, anywhere, you may depend,
When those who speak are those they daren’t
offend,
Stern union bosses, sturdy democrats
Or demagogues, to whom they touch their hats,
Meekly agreeing with what these decide
Is best, when once the acid is applied.
Who is it formulates our politics
Towards adjacent nations? Canberra? Nix
Who is it warns us to regard the Dutch
As allies or oppressors? Chif.? Not much.
He stated long ago, in one blunt phrase,
His fear to “set the waterfront ablaze”
By even venturing, in these high affairs,
Any opinion that might clash with theirs.
Twas not for him, one gathered, to forbid
Aught that the wharfies chose to do —and did.
Who runs our foreign politics today?
Itinerant Evatt, did I hear you say?
Well, he can talk expansively, it’s true,
But what’s the use of words when knocked
askew ,
By what the wharfies are allowed to do?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pitt St.”: The installation of what
the installers delightfully describe as
“honesty boxes” on Sydney trams
people who are missed by the conductor
are expected to drop the amount of their
fare therein, and on the first day
trams carried them the total amount was
10s. —received notice from an old wharfie
who sighted the thing when he clambered
into a King’s Cross tram. “Ha,” he said,
“I see y’ got one o’ them ruddy poor-
boxes. Well, I always believe in
helpin’.” And he dropped thrippence in.
I don’t suppose Premier McGirr or his
Transport Commissioner would appreci-
ate it, but what a fitting comment on the
state of public transport in Australia’s
largest city!
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Paper collars (B.
23/7/’47) are no innovation: Dickens
in his gallery includes a boy who wore
one. In the days when the “white-collar-
worker” phrase was invented not only
paper collars but paper “dickies” were
much in use. Even when collars were
“done-up” by the laundries at a penny a
time they were a saving. They suffered
an eclipse when celluloid collars, dickies
and cuffs came in; these had only to be
rubbed over with a damp rag. But the
celluloid was liable to yellow on the
edges: with perspiration, and the stud
holes wore so badly that they could not
hold put on the studs. Moreover, they
were dangerous ; on contact with a spark
they were liable to burst into flame, with
sometimes fatal, results. Their importa-
tion was finally prohibited.
# * * *
“Nakh”: Eight prisoners who escaped
from Beechworth jail in the Kelly country,
where Ned waited his trial 70 years ago,
showed a touch of decency seldom found
in their kind. Having overpowered their
jailer* they conveyed him to a remote
cell and confined him in it, leaving his
revolver on the floor outside with a mes-
sage scrawled on a slate: “Don’t blame
the warder. What would you do if four
men took you?”' They then left through
the kitchen, taking tea, sugar and con-
densed' milk with them. One was a half-
caste and another a full-blooded abo.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Ethnologists and artists
are agog about the rediscovery of a
batch of abo. paintings in caves near Gibb
River, 100 miles from Derby (W.A.),
first located and described by Grey. The
four torsos of women and the full-length
figure in what looks like a nightdress are
quite unlike the traditional Binghi motif,
and one authority sees in what looks
like letters on the headdresses the langu-
age of Red Sea merchants who traded
in the Persian Gulf centuries ago. A
parson 60 years ago said they were
Malay-Sumatran letters, which is quite
likely, as they look like attempts at
copying the Arabic script used by the
Malay as well as by Red Sea merchants.
The costume worn by two of the figures
is obviously the sarong hung from the
breasts and in one case caught in at the
waist by a girdle in typical Javanese
fashion. The designs on the sarongs
could easily be attempts at depicting the
batik pattern. The faces are mouthless,
and it would require a lot of imagination
to see any racial characteristics in the
other features ; but Binghi was a poor
realist until the advent of Namatjira. The
likeliest thing in the world would have
been for some Binghi artist to make
sketches of a crew of Bugis or Macassar
fishermen blown south by the monsoon.
They are as recognisably Malayan as the
figures of Dutch Company men in their
frock coats and tophats carved on Balinese
temples are European,
“Gravelsnatcher”: Biggest job of its
kind in Australia is nearing completion
as over Sin. of insulation is being wrapped
around the 9000 ft. of nearly 12in. pipe
which will convey steam- from the Perth
powerhouse to the new Royal Perth
Hospital—and, later, to a State laundry.
“I think it would be wiser if we used SAFETY pins on this, m' dear.”
The contractors, a Sydney firm, reckon
to lose 30 degrees find deliver steam at
640 degrees F. There are possibilities in
steam delivery—it’s employed largely in
America —and the contractors expect to
see similar projects launched in Australia,
even to the extent of supplying steam to
individual houses as well as factories.
Canberra is showing interest, but the job,
nevertheless, will be completed,
# Sc * *
“Junior”: Many an ex-R.A.A.F. type’s
eyes must have glinted enviously on
reading that 16 Lincoln bombers of 617
Squadron had left Binbrook, Lines., on
the first leg of a 14,000-mile goodwill and
training trip covering Canada and the
United States. Who wouldn’t be satis-
fied with that kind of training, especi-
ally those of us who had experience of
either or both countries when -world tours
at Australia’s expense were made by
others than politicians? But, of course,
617 is, or was, the gen squadron of
Bomber Command, originally formed by
Guy Gibson in two. days, with its prime
object the destruction of the Dams, and
later to add scalps like the Tirpitz to its
belt. Its new home, Binbrook, will be
well remembered by ex-members of 460,
the senior R.A.A.F. Lancaster squadron
in Britain.
* * * *
“Bo”: In a changing world one of the
unchanging things is the manner in which
the south and central American banana
republics conduct their periodic revolu-
tions. The latest ripple to disturb the
Latin-American political pool occurred
in, or just off, Dominica. There a revo-
lutionary junta, allegedly trained in near-
by Cuba, were, a week or two back,
poised to strike in an effort to
“Hurry, Ruby —the taxi is waiting!”
overthrow the Trujillo Government.
Three troop transports, with a destroySr
escort, had then been waiting for the
arrival of the revolutionary high com-
mand in bomber planes, and no doubt
optimistic eyes still scan the skies for
the arrival of the Spiggotty deliverer of
the oppressed masses. But it’s pesetas to
pea-pods that somewhere in equatorial
regions a small greasy-lopking Com-
mander-in-Chief, in a uniform like a
cinema-theatre floor colonel’s, is toting
round some bomber planes among likely
buyers, and that a relieved President
Trujillo is putting back into the national
peter the handsome wad he had had
ready stacked in bags, just in case the
revolutionary C.-in-C. unaccountably
didn’t fall for the temptation to hock
his means of transport which the mugs
had so kindly provided, I confidently
anticipate that the Spiggotty deliverer
has already got a nice deposit on the
sale of the transports and destroyer.
* * * -t
“Col M.”: At last I’ve found him!
There went out a decree from Caesar
Augustus that all the world shall be taxed.
—Luke II: I.
I know there were taxgatherers before
C.A., but he is a convenient bloke to
blame for the plague of taxation officials'
that infests the globe. According to re-
ports the local tribe this year propose
to attend first to those taxpayers due
for refunds. Optimists who fancy them-
selves in this class may be interested in
the case of an American who did get a
refund. He expected about 23 dollars.
The cheque arrived for 555,555 dollars
55 cents. He had hardly recovered from
his blissful collapse when the taxation
people flattened him again by declaring
“It was all some horrible mistake.”
* * * *
“Ceg”: Optical expenses are now an
allowable deduction for income-tax pur-
poses. Such expenses are becoming an
increasing item in the average budget,
and I wonder how much of the present-
day defective sight is attributable to the
fact that many city-dwellers have their
vision limited to a few feet. The average
suburbanite wakes in the morning
hemmed in by walls about seven or
eight feet from the tip of his nose. He
goes to the bathroom, an even smaller
room, and then sits down to his break-
fast in one not much bigger. After a
hurried run to the tram or train he
finds himself again cooped up in a com-
partment of small dimensions. As he
will be peering at his morning paper for
most of the journey, the size of the
carriage doesn’t matter much. A short
walk to his place of business, with a
corresponding chance to “stretch” his
eyes, then into the lift. For the rest of
the morning he is hemmed in by his
office walls. Lunch in a crowded cafe,
where he is lucky if he can see more than
20 feet without interruption, and then
back to the office. Perhaps he goes to
the pictures in the evening and fo( the
first time in the day uses his eyes for
sight of more than a few feet.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: These days no virtuoso
can land in Australia without announcing
that he has a piano, a fiddle or some
other instrument of incredible value
—a Stfad. worth £20,000, a Guar-
nerius worth £38,000 or a piano
which once belonged to Rachmaninoff.
No doubt great executants require
these expensive implements to pro-
duce their best performance, but I have
a sneaking admiration for one world-
famous artist who didn’t seem to care
what instrument he played on. Some
Melbourne friends of mine were motor-
ing home from a Sunday trip into the
country and overtook a pedestrian. They
offered him a lift and were astounded
to find that their passenger was Heifetz.
As the hour was late they drove him to
their flat in St. Kilda and offered him
some dinner. After the meal he asked,
“Have you a violin in the house?” They
had, but protested that it was a cheap
one, bought for two pounds, “Any
old instrument will do me,” replied the
virtuoso; and to their intense delight
he played on the cracked old fiddle the
whole evening.
* * * *
“Thornba”: Some years ago a railway
booking clerk gave me, instead of a shil-
ling, a rummy-looking coin well preserved
but undated. Next morning he refused to
accept responsibility, so the dud remained
unidentified and unhonored for a long
time, until in a burst of curiosity I took
it to the Melbourne Museum’s coin room.
It was a Maryland sixpence, struck about
1650. I got two quid for it.
* * * *
“Lord Leonard”: A country chemist
was working in his dispensary when the
silence of the afternoon was broken by
the sound of running feet, pounding the
earth in urgent haste. The noise was
punctuated by a loud, clattering bang,
followed by a heavy thud. The apothecary
left his pills and potions and hastened
to the front of his shop, to be engulfed
by a wave of perspiring cockies brandish-
ing coins and notes, and shouting for
toothpaste, baby powder, soap, anything,
anything! He served them in a daze, his
feeble attempts at questions unheeded by
his anxious panting customers. Later
came elucidation. Further up the street
was the billiard hall, the backyard of
which was the favorite haunt of the two-
up devotees. The cops had sneaked up
without warning, and the boys, suddenly
finding the law upon them, took the only
way out, which was over the tin fence
into the next yard, across that and over
the next tin fence and so on, till they
gained the haven of the chemist’s shop.
There they were immediately transformed
into law-abiding citizens “doing a bit of
shopping for the wife.”
* * * *
“yEsop Jnr.”: Is nothing safe from the
bowdlerising influence of prudish minds?
I overheard my seven-year-old telling his
younger brother the old fable of Henny-
penny, who, on being hit on her silly
head by a shot from a pea-shooter —this
being some centuries before the dis-
covery of flying saucers —thought the sky
was falling and set off accompanied by
most of her barnyard friends to inform #
the king. When I was a lad, and for
many generations before that, one of the
first to join the ducky old Orpington was
Cocky-locky. In the modern version there
is no such character —his place has been
taken by some priggish creature called
Rooster-pooster.
» * * #
“Cine Ma”: Influence of the movies.
A Melbourne mother asked her seven-
year-old what he would like to do. “Go
into the country and shoot people up,”
he said. “And what would I do?” asked
his mother. “Oh,” was the rejoinder, “you
could come, too, and cook, but I wouldn’t
let you be seen.” Then she asked his
five-year-old brother what he would like
to be. “The ambulance man,” replied
the infant.
♦ * * *
“Clooter”: There is a young woman in
Adelaide who, in 15 or 20 years from
now, will be able to listen with superior
disdain to the claims of pfcople who
allege they were born with cauls, silver
spoons in their mouths, teeth, curly hair
and all the other natal gifts which give'
the claimant some small title to fame.
Her mother, in “an interesting condition,”
•went out with a pea-rifle to knock over a
rabbit. Somebody heard a shot and a
cry and the unlucky sportswoman was
picked up with an accidental bullet
wound. Taken 20 miles to hospital, she
underwent an operation and recovered.
Five days later her baby was born, two
months premature but otherwise all right,
except for a bullet wound in the right
thigh. It was stitched and subsequently
healed. Baby probably won’t carry the
operation scar, though she’s presumably
the first Australian to be shot before she
was bom.
THE COLUMNIST.
What is a Columnist? you ask. I wonder
Mysetf at times. But strictly, 1 Pg sume ’
He’s anyone who pens a colui ™ de-plume
His own sign manual or a n °™: d *l d ore
Yet what precisely is the> why’ a
Of his appearance on the Inky way
Like some new star, in short, just what
there for
Is somewhat hard to say.
Still, let us try. He seems to hold a station
Below the leaders but above the ranks,
This curious journalistic innovation
We’ve borrowed holus-bolus from the Yanks.
The first objective of the r6le he s filling,
I’d sav is to suggest in black and white
Things that his paper would be hardly willing
To voice itself —outright.
To give us genuine news he doesn’t bargain,
But mostly deals with items that he s heard
In casual talk or, in colloquial jargon.
Something that’s reached him from a Uttie
And should he venture on some comment
packed with ,
Rancor or spite, some virulent on air,
Always remember that it isn’t backed with
The editorial We.
To spice his copy he should have a shipment
Of wisecracks in his brain-box, old oi new,
And ’long with these, to balance his equipment,
A highly moral apothegm or two.
His aptitude for starting hares or nymg
Kites when required would 4 cause him to
be missed
In certain walks of life, there s no denying.
Here’s to the Columnist!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


\ :*C2SS3SSaSSSS?
X.
\•:
\
mm
; .
r .
m
E a
i
m I
H B
I H
I ■ ■
mty j
■■■
i
Photograph by Davis Boulton
offijJ i}ehy rSetxynuruji, .
• andlovely Valerie
Hobson wears the
Dickensian ensemble with fine demureness for her part as Estella
in “Great Expectations”. But, once ‘shooting’ is over, out
come the modern clothes and new Clarks shoes which trans-
form Estella into a very twentieth - century Miss Hobson.
Made by C. & J. CLARK, Ltd.
(Wholesale only). Street a Somerset, England,
London Office: Mitre House , 277, Regent Street f
London , W.l
cLLojU<
5
SHOES
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
- by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA.
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
saw Millers timber merchants
THE SERVICE MAN
Java and U.N.O.
“Ek Bum”: Mr. Chifley’s announce-
ment that Australia had referred the
Indonesian-Dutch dispute to the Security
Council of U.N.O. provided another in-
stance of the Chifleys stepping in where
angels fear to tread.
With their usual clumsiness they put
forward a resolution that the belliger-
ents be ordered to cease hostilities and
that arbitration by a third party be
initiated. This involved recognition of
the Japanese-formed Indonesian “Re-
public” as a nation, a recognition which
Britain and other nations on the Council
were not prepared to stomach. By tak-
ing sides on that matter Canberra and
India robbed the British Commonwealth
of all chance of becoming the mediator.
The U.S, delegates promptly took the
business out of “Australia’s” hands.
They moved for the cessation of hostili-
ties and called on the parties to settle
the disagreement “by arbitration or other
peaceful means,” at the same time
offering the good offices of the United
States Government, The Dutch as
promptly ordered a cease-fire. “Our In-
dernesian comrades,” egged on by
Russia, demanded that their agreement
“ Who's in charge here ?”
“The elephant, sir!"
should depend on the withdrawal of the
Dutch to lines occupied in October, to-
gether with the withdrawal of all Dutch
troops from Java, Sumatra and adjoin-
ing areas of Soekarno’s “republic”; a
j a i
demand with which the Dutch are un-
likely to comply since, as they have an-
nounced, “terrible retaliations” by the
Jap-trained savages of Jogjakarta would
all too probably follow the removal of
Dutch protection.
Canberra’s move was designed to
secure limelight for “Labor.” It pleased
Moscow and its Communist parties. It
will assure definitely the enmity of the
Dutch, who will do their best to see that
the immense loss in trade which Aus-
tralia has suffered during the past two
years will be continued indefinitely. Aus-
tralia having no ships for overseas trade
and Britain having none to spare, this
matter is entirely in the hands of the
Dutch
And the manoeuvre will lose consider-
able food for Britons, who badly need it.
It will lend moral courage to the savages
of Java, who have been burning British-
owned plantations, destroying Chinese-
owned property amounting to “many
millions of guilders” and shooting
Chinese, whose Nanking Government, as
well as protesting against these “out-
rages,” has “appropriated a million
guilders for the relief of Chinese in
Indonesia.” All this according to an
Australian Associated Press report, pub-
lished in Melbourne but not in Sydney,
where the Communist champions of
“our Indernesian comrades” have their
headquarters.
The “Australian” move will further-
establish Australia’s reputation as a
“nark” nation allied with little' brindie
countries with which “Labor” consorts
when the interests of European races and
colored races conflict.
Dr. Evatt on the Security Council
There will, however, be no useful re-
sult from Security Council decisions, ex-
cept such as may be obtained by the in-
dividual action of Britain —now standing
momentarily aloof—and the United
States. This the “Government” at Can-
berra knows well enough.
Dr. Evatt himself thus described Se-
curity Council operations in Parliament
in November last:
The Security 'Council is in this appalling
position that nothing may be done about
a dispute which has come before the
organisation. From the beginning you
know that nothing can be done about it.
Bitter speeches are made, this way or that
way, and you are always conscious of the
threat that at the end the next business
will be called and no recommendation or
suggestion can be made by the Council.
The position is complicated because
the Indonesian “Republican Govern-
ment” is not a Government or a U.N.O.
member.
Its emissaries have come to an agree-
ment twice to observe certain conditions,
but each time they have gone back to
their headquarters at Jogjakarta and their
arrangement has been repudiated by
their own people. London “Times” de-
dared on July 22:
The influence which Britain, the United
States and Australia have brought to bear
upon ultra-nationalist circles in Jogjakarta
to secure acceptance of the Dutch demands,
reasonable in themselves and entirely in
accordance with the Linggadjati pact, has
in the last resource proved unavailing. The
£
a p wn ,|f e Dutch spheres of influence;
it has declined to issue a cease-fire order
to its troops; and it has either sanctioned
„ . £t _ „ .. , ~
Fanatics the Times called the
Indonesian leaders. It needs to be men-
tioned again that Sydney papers seem re-
luctant to quote such words about these
hemes of the Communists who set fire-
to British properties m Java
I J I defiance of their undeitakmg under
the Linggadjati agreement to respec
neutral and Dutch property. The paper
speaks of the provocation so long and
patiently sustained by the Dutch.
r , •
* n< *ian Opinion
What the Dutch have been doing, with
the approval of the people of three-
quarters of the area of the Indies, is to
clean up a brigand gang of Japanese-
sponsored traitors with whom they have
been more than patient and accommo-
dating.
Those persons are incapable of fight-
ing them or of fighting anybody save
with a knife in the dark. In consequence
they retired and, in doing so, followed the
precepts of their Communist teachers,
leaving behind them a trail of burned
and ruined buildings, starving people and
wrecked plantations which it will be im-
possible to repair for years. They are
also leaving behind them a decade of


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER HERBERT McCUTCHEON late
of New Lambton, Newcastle, New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that MARIA ELIZABETH Mc-
CUTCHEON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2693
of 1917 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the sth day of September 1947 and obtain a copy
of the Petition free of charge from W. H. BAKER
& LOVE, Solicitors, 27 Bolton Street, Newcastle, or
JOHN CORCORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall,
2 York Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
—ln Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO BARBARA JOAN GREEN formerly of Oressy in
Tasmania (wife of Arthur Percy Green) and RONALD
LORRAINE SEYMOUR formerly of Hobart in Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to you to
appear and answer the charges in the Petition of
ARTHUR PERCY GREEN of Research Farm Cressy
in Tasmania Driver praying for a dissolution of mar-
riage In default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of this publication
an appearance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Mac-
quarie Street Hobart or at the Launceston District
Registry Cameron Street Launceston.— (1.5.) W. H.
VERRALL, District Registrar.
&
&
%
the
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
Importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Joseph Mitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Eoxton - Eric Priestley Fee.
Manager—L. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R Overton. A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE:' 'BU 5901, Box 543 5.P.0., Sydney*
BP 4-M.
RECRUITS
WAXIER
for
12 YEARS SERVICE
in the
ROYAL
AUSTRALIAN
NAVY
Good Pay. Free Medical and Dental Treat-
ment. Opportunities for Promotion, Travel,
Sport and improvement of education.
AGE GROUPS
(Tradesmen will be required to pass a trade test before entry )
ALL CANDIDATES will be required to comply with
the Educational and Medical Standards prescribed
for the Branch they desire to enter and produce
Birth Certificate and a Certificate or Statement from
the Headmaster of their last school, showing the
highest Educational Standard attained.
CANDIDATES UNDER AGE OF 21 must have
parent’s consent.
EX R.A.N. AND RESERVE RATINGS
are invited to RE-ENTER for 2, 5 or 12 years, or the
period additional to previous service to complete 12 years.
For full details apply to:
The Naval Recruiting Officer, Beach Road, Edgecliff.
F.M. 5001, Extension 1.
misery for the Javanese common people
by Communist agitators has reached such
a point in Australia that when affletol
aircraft, without Red Cross mark mgs
was brought down when about to land
on the Jap-built airfield of the Jonesian
headquarters (formerly also Japanes
headquarters), ostensibly by the
Air Force (this was denied, th °ogh the
charge has been repeated) there was more
newspaper and radio publicity about the
incident than there was about the brutal
and senseless burning of the lovely city of
Malang, one of the model towns of the
Indies, with all the ruin, starvation and
death that it will cause. More, indeed,
than there was about the murder oi three
Australian officers, and about the mas-
sacre with hand grenades of women and
children and of 1000 Chinese last year,
or about the deliberate cold-blooded
butchering by the watersiders civilised
friends of Indians and British captured
from an R.A.F. plane, which made a
forced landing in Indonesian territory
while a truce was supposedly in being
in 1945. Australian newspaper readers
have scarcely been told at all that the
Indonesians are holding thousands of
hostages, including women and children.
The bombing of Samarang—lndo-
nesians were among the killed —and the
brutal machine-gunning of the city by
Indonesians using Japanese aircraft on
July 28 have scarcely been mentioned.
' At the week-end, the Dutch were in
control of virtually all the main cities
and productive areas of Java and Sum-
atra. The Dutch East Indies outside
Java and Sumatra and- one or two small
islands adjacent had never shown any
disposition to argue with them and the
Government. The rich East Indonesian
Republic has approved the Dutch action
in fighting. Indeed, the bulk of the “In*
donesians” have learnt their lesson. They
know that from the Japanese puppets of
Jogjakarta they can expect nothing save
pillage, disorder and slaughter.
Meanwhile “Australia,” while sur-
rendering to the Communist conspiracy
once more, is helping to establish
“principles” violently dangerous to the
White Australia policy.
Dedman: Miracle-worker.
“Ek Dum”: Old and not so old
soldiers are wondering what sort of citizen
divisions the “Government” proposes to
produce under its volunteer training
scheme.
It proposes to produce them upon the
following basis:
A field force of two infantry divisions,
one armored brigade group and selected
corps units with a total strength of 48,850.
Fixed defences with a strength of 1150.
Total 50,000.
These are to be obtained by voluntary
enlistment. And “the annual Citizen
Force training periods will comprise 14-
days camp and 24-days home training
(comprising 12-days obligatory and 12-
days voluntary training).” Officers and
non-commissioned officers will be encour-
aged to attend additional courses at
Army schools.
It is set out that the “other ranks” of
citizen forces “on completion of engage-
ments will constitute a potential reserve.”
Quite obviously there is a wide diverg-
ence of opinion between thb Field-
Marshals of Canberra and other military
authorities on what a division is. The
constitution and training of divisions vary
somewhat in different countries.
The English infantry division is some-
what different from the French and
American, and the Russian from all of
them. But they all have something in
common. Their devisers set out to pro-
duce well-knit, highly-trained formations
of skilled men, versatile and able, apart
from indulging in cohesive action, to
move swiftly over long’ distances and to
handle a great variety of complicated
weapons, transport appliances, signals,
bridging plants, radio, radar detection
and, in fact, all the difficult logistical
problems of internal fuel and water
supply which have become integral in
modem war in the past few years. A
primary objective is to make them self-
contained.
The division, in fact, is equivalent to a
small Australian city, such as Albury, in
total population, with every man a
mechanic, ranging in skill from ordinary
journeyman to scientific and technical
ability of a very high order. If it is to be
of any use at all in modern war it must
be in such a state of cohesion and effi-
ciency that it can be moved entire and
in one piecfe at short notice by road, air
or rail for long distances. As long ago as
the Imphal campaign on the Burma
border a division was moved 1000 miles,
tanks and all, in the course of a few
days, ready to fight when it started, ready
when its journey ended. ,
What facilities will support the
standard division in five years’ time is still
a matter of uncertainty. But the most
modern divisions in existence today are
the U.S “infantry” divisions on the basis
adopted this year, and five years will cer-
tainly increase their scientific complica-
tions.
These recognise the principle that all
arms and means of progress on the battle-
field must be cohesive and integral to
any fighting formation.
They recognise the power of massed
armor and the conception that in all
fighting armor and infantry must co-
operate ; that armor must be used in mass,
that its action must not be independent,
and that it must be used under the divi-
sional command.
The new American division rosters
897 officers, 51 w.os. and 16,720 enlisted
men. And its appliances include the fol-
lowing :
Aircraft, liaison, 16; boats, utility, 2;
a bridge, 250 ft., floating; compressors, air,
truck-mounted, 6; cranes, 4-8 tons, truck-
mounted, 5; a 5-kilowatt trailer-mounted
power plant; 4-ton semi-trailers, low-bed
type, 4; a large-scale motorised engineer-
ing shop; a 35-40 d.b.h.p. Diesel tractor;
six 90-h.p. Diesel-drive tractors; one 8-ton
low-bed trailer ; 13 21-ton pole-type trailers;
water-purification plants for 17,000 men;
welding plant; 32 multiple-gun carriages,
M-16; 32 carriage-motor twin 40mm. guns,
M-19; 17 full-track armored carriers for
personnel; 60 heavy cal. .30 machine-guns;
147 light cal. .30 machine-guns; 297 cal.
.50 machine-guns; 54 105 mm. howitzers;
18 155 mm. howitzers; 81 60mm. mortars;
39 81mm. mortars; 81 57mm. recoilless
rifles; 42 75mm. recoilless rifles; 9 light-
armored trucks; 129 medium tanks, M-26
(long 90mm. gun); 12 medium tanks, M-45
tr'ershings), which carry the 105 mm.
howitzer and powerful supplementary
armament; 24 chemical mortars, 4.2 in.;
8 tank-recovery vehicles, plus 1989 trucks
and specialised vehicles, such as weapon-
and ammunition-carriers and hundreds of
bazookas and light automatic rifles, all
complicated.
This is the kind of division Australians
may expect to fight against or with in
any war which comes in a short period
of years.
To be of any immediate use either for
defence or offencfe the Australian divisions
will need to be of the same type and
standard.
If Mr. Dedman has a few minutes to
spare during the next session of Parlia-
ment he might explain his process for
training such divisions in “14-days camps
and 24-days home training (12 days only
obligatory).” If he has a process for
doing it, the Commonwealth should
patent it, since it is saleable for such
fabulous sums as would make it possible
to take off income tax and liquidate the
national debt.
The British Mediterranean Fleet visit-
ing Sevastopol last week took a galaxy
of officers and men who should have had
Russian gratitude. These included Com-
mander E. G. Roper, who helped to take
five convoys to the U.S.S.R. through
Polar seas, on one occasion being en-
gaged in two weeks of almost continuous
fighting in command of the destroyer
Impulsive—it earned him a D.S.O. Com-
mander P. M. Chavasse, D.S.C., was in
10 hard-fighting convoys, and it was his
salvoes as torpedo officer of H.M.S.
Jamaica which actually sank the Scharn-
horst. Another still is Lieutenant J. P.
Donovan, who was awarded the Russian
“Order of the Patriotic War, First-Class,”
for his part in the convoy action off
Bear Island, in which Captain Sherbrook,
the flotilla commander, was badly
wounded and won the V.G. The Rus-
sians will not be able to set up “opposite
numbers” to these heroes. The “mighty
and invincible Red Navy” had to leave
the convoying of its supplies to the effete
English and Americans, including a large
force of naval and merchant Canadian
seamen, the president of whose Seamen’s
Union, Mr. J. S. Sullivan, was last week
placed under police guard after he had
resigned his office and declared that his
union’s leadership “consists of members
of the Communist party, and all Canadian
Communist activity is directed from
Moscow.”


A C U CAD
Msiv rUK
MAKERS OF GOOD WINE FOR 100 YEARS
e
PERSONAL ITEMS
General Marshall’s new offsider,
Robert Lovett, who as Under-Secretary
of State will have his' hands full imple-
menting the Marshall plan for reviving
war-tom Europe, brings plenty of ad-
ministrative ability and experience to the
job. Eight months before Pearl Harbor
he became Assistant-Secretary for Air,
and those who should know give him
much of the credit for the rapid expan-
sion of the U.S. Army Air, Force. He
was one of the many men. who came
into Roosevelt’s war-time team with a
background of success in the business
world, and applied business methods to
Government Administration. Further
back he was an airman himself ; he went
from Yale into the U.S. Navy in 1917
as a flier, put in two years on oversea
service and came home with a Navy
Cross.
Chosen as manager of British Common-
wealth Pacific Airlines, Commander A. A.
Barlow has been in the flying game nearly
20 years. He started with the Citizen
Air Force in 1928, flew the Melbourne-
to-Launceston mail service for the Hart
Aircraft company for a couple of years,
then went barnstorming around Victoria
until 1936, when he joined Holymans—
now A.N.A. When the present job
turned up he was still with National —
as assistant flight-superintendent in Mel-
bourne —but he had sandwiched in six
years’ service with the R.A.A.F. His
logbook shows 7500 hours aloft in various
types of aircraft.
Vic Perry is a tyro compared with
Ernest Glanville Hicks, F.C.I.S. (Lond.),
just retired from the office of secretary
and chief organiser to the Lud Mayor’s
Fund in Melbourne. During his 25 years
of service Hicks has persuaded upwards
of £2,225,000 from the public’s pocket
and, like Perry’s audiences, the public
has had it all back with interest in the
benefits accruing to over 100 charitable
organisations, from Melbourne Royal
to a host of creches and kinder-
gartens. Hicks is also a poet and
has published Songs of a Season
and Turn of the Tide and Other
Poems, as well as numerous short stories.
A journalist to start with, and once editor
of the “Daily Times” of sulphurous
Rotorua, he joined the A.I.F. in 1915,
and when he got to the Middle East was
given the job of revising the War Graves
problem in Egypt; ultimately he took on
the whole of War Graves Registration
from Egypt to Gibraltar. During the
Somme offensive he organised hospital
supplies and comforts until he was dis-
abled, being twice mentioned in dis-
patches. Later he organised the training
of disabled servicemen. Hicks was born
in 1877 at St. Mary’s in the Scilly Islands.
Resigned his seat in the Vic. Assembly,
Tom Tunnecliffe, G.O.M, of State politics.
His service dates from 1903, and since
1921 he has represented Collingwood.
Three times a Cabinet Minister, Tom was
Acting-Premier during the Depression
when Hogan visited England, Leader of
the Opposition in 1935 and Speaker from
1937 to 1940. He is 78.
Air-Commodore J. P. J, McCauley,
C.8.E., appointed Chief of Staff to
General Robertson in Japan, is one of
the younger generation of R.A.A.F.
cadets who followed the veterans of the
first war into the service. He served in’
Malaya and was in charge of Palembang
aerodrome in Sumatra, from which five
R.A.F. and three R.A.A.F. squadrons
fought against overwhelming odds to
stem the Jap advance. He had previously
commanded the R.A.A.F. station at Sem-
bawang, Singapore. Returning to Aus-
tralia he became Deputy Chief of Staff
to Air Chief Burnett, He handed over
to “Dad” Bladin (whom he now suc-
ceeds in Japan) in 1944 to take
an important job in the second T.A.F.
with the R.A.F. He served through Bel-
gium, Holland and Germany and saw
the Ardennes battle at very close
quarters. On return to Australia he was
appointed Director of Organisation, but
at the time of his new appointment was
again Deputy Chief of the Air Staff, hav-
ing taken over from Bladin when that
officer was appointed Chief of Staff to
8.C.0.F. Troops who served under
“Blackjack” McCauley up in Malaya and
Sumatra consider him the fightingest
R.A.A.F. senior officer they met.
Australian musicians continue to make
good in England. Latest is Raymond
O’Connell, the Brighton (Vic.) pianist
who nine years ago won a scholarship to
the Royal College of Music, London. He
has been elected chief study pro-
fessor at the institution, the first Aus-
tralian to gain the position. In 1942 he
was handed the Worshipful Company of
Musicians’ medal as the most dis-
tinguished student at the college.
“Becks” on the passing of an ex-P.M.:
Joseph Cook, dead at 86, was bom in
Staffordshire four years before Wales acquired
Hughes. Billy came to Australia in
1884, two years ahead of Joe, and for a long
time there was a parallel between the lives of
the two old warriors. Both became trade-
umon secretaries—Cook, after working a couple
of years on the Lithgow coalfield, was named
general secretary of the Miners’ Federation;
Hughes was first secretary of the Sydney water-
siders. Joe, though he entered Labor politics
three years before Billy, in his case as M.L.A.
for Hartley, didn’t remain Labor as long; after
a couple of years he broke with the party
over the caucus pledge it was twenty-odd
years before W.M.H. dumped the anti-
Conscriptionists and crossed the House.
Cook was the first to reach the Ministerial
benches. In 1894, the year in which Hughes
was returned as M.L.A. for Lang, George
Reid chose Cook as P.M G . but when all three
JOE COOK , as Low saw him.
meu switched from local to national politics
with the opening of the first Federal Parlia-
ment, Billy became Minister for External Affairs
l n ihe short-lived Watson Ministry of 1904.
J° e had to wait till the pendulum had swung
a couple of times before he got his first Federal
portfolio. Defence, in Deakin’s third Cabinet.
11 was , d F. in s his term as Minister that uni-
versal training was placed on the Statute Book
and the first units of the Australian Navy were
ordered.
When Labor came back to office in 1910 Cook
he^came Leader of the Opposition—George Reid
had retired—but at the elections three years
i ate r he ousted the Fisher Government and
was Prime Minister when war came in 1914.
/ immediately pledged full help to Britain,
but with the turn of political events it was left
to other hands than his to carry out the pledge.
He lacked a Senate majority, and a double-
dissolution election put him again on the
Opposition benches, from which he, saw
Hughes succeed Andrew Fisher as Labor Prime
Minister, break with his party over conscrip-
tion and form a National Government. After
mor l than 30 . yeaTS th e two men were again
Cook served under Hughes as Minister for
the Navy and Treasurer, and went with him to
die Versailles Conference. Their long asso-
ciation in politics ended in 1921, when Joe,
Commissionefto sifyears anS hVa frS
deal to do with the formulation of the prin-
ciples of the 1926 Imperial Conference, which
f A °l med u - he b f sis °! the A St f tl i te Westminster.
After his return to Australia his interest in
politics was as an observer only, but his keen
and alert mind was active to the end. He
was a hue old boy, fatherly to supporters and
opponents alike, and with a natural courtesy,
Throughout his political career he hit hard,
but he never made an enemy. In his day he
was one of the handsomest of Australian poli-
tidans, tall, trim and clear-eyed, and one of
the most friendly and equable. Almost entirely
self-educated—he went to work in the mines
at nine—the fact was not apparent in his speech,
which suggested a university education,
“Yowi”; The northern tropical clime
certainly kills ’em, but takes a dam long
time to do it. Of 10 recent deaths of
veterans in Townsville, Ingham and
Charters Towers the youngest, Don
Mclnnes, who carried a limp from a
broken thigh for 38 years, had turned
80, and 10 years older at least was
Scottish-born John Ferguson, a car-
penter in the railway workshops until
he retired 25 years ago. W. C. Thomp-
son, 85 when he passed on, carried
samples and peddled insurance through
the north-west and Gulf outback,
and came out of retirement to storekeep
for the Yank Army during their Towns-
ville invasion. He walked a mile to
town for exercise, and followed the horses
every Saturday, up to a week of taking
the Long Trail. After half a century in
one Townsville suburb, Mrs. Margaret
Farquahar had topped 81, while ex-
shearers’ cook Ed Benyon, who spent 60
years in and around Longreach, and the
last couple of years at Townsville, was
about the same age. Staunch Salvationist
to the last and tractor-driver for Towns-
ville Council until 15 years ago. Bill
Batten was 85.
“E. Stroke O.” has a happy experience:
1 ave i ust received from the Navy office on
behalf of the Admiralty a cheque for services
rendered as a member of the crew of H.M.A.S.
Burnie in salvaging S.S. Homeford on March
13, 1943. I assume the other 70-odd ex-
members of the crew of the little warship have
been similarly treated. Homeford was built as
a “mystery” ship in World War I. She had
a clipper bow and a similarly-shaped stern. The
vertical funnel was dead amidships. There
was no bridge to speak of and in silhouette
it was very hard to tell which way she was
heading. However, she was not serving as a
* mystery” ship in World War II; she was
carrying valuable cargo from South Africa
to the Mediterranean when she ran on a reef
near Lamu in Northern Kenya.
Most of her crew of Cape colored boys made
an unauthorised departure in the lifeboats,
leaving the master and his officers to themselves.
She was bumping heavily at high tide and was
making wafer through opening seams in the
enginerooml •
It was a case for quick decisive action, and
Lieut.-Commander Terry Christy, C.O. of
Burme, was the man for the job. Coal and
°ffier cargo was jettisoned from the stranded
ship, a naval crew was placed in charge and
at high tide, an attempt was made to pull her
off. lire towing arrangements parted owing to
the ripe old age of the Homeford’s gear.
Twenty-four hours later, with Burnie’s stout
anchor cable secured to the leaking ship, we
were on our way to a distant port, where the
Homeford was patched up again. The Flag
Officer-in-chajge, East Africa, was impressed
with the efficiency of the salvage operation,
and sent a warm congratulatory signal to
H.M.A.S. Burnie.
. Simon Barere, sketched here by Tram
with his favorite piano, once Rachmanin-
off’s, was born at Odessa. A pupil of
Madame Essipoff, he studied in Petrograd
before the 1914 war, then with Blumen-
feld, the composer, and won .that most
coveted of all pianistic distinctions the
Rubinstein Prize. He then became Pro-
fessor of Music at Kiev Conservatorium.
In 1937 he made his London debut as
soloist with the London Philharmonic
under Beecham. American critics ques-
tion whether any keyboard .artist has
surpassed him in digital dexterity. Barere
likes to play only when in the mood,
and for that reason gives fewer concerts
PRIVATE PIANO.
when on tour than any other artist of his
calibre —and he doesn’t like recording
because it has to be done to schedule.
Asked by a Melbourne parent what ad-
vice he would give her budding virtuoso
son Barere said: “Tell him to practise,
practise and strive for evenness of touch
and evenness of tone, and never to forget
that fast playing means slow practice.”
Captain Walter Fish, Marine Superin-
tendent of Federal Government Tonnage
Snipping, started as apprentice in sail in
the Sydney trader Cromdale, joined the
in 191 and was with
it tdl 1943, when he took command
of the newly-built Commonwealth Gov-
ernment steamer River Burdekin. In
World War One Fish served as lieutenant
GOVERNMENT SHIPS.
R.N.R.; he saw service on the Gallipoli
beaches. In Hitler’s war, his ship
Komata was sunk by a German raider
off Nauru, and Captain Fish was kept on
board the raider until put ashore with
other prisoners on Emirau Island. After
the Jap surrender the River Burdekin
was the first vessel to return to Nauru to
land troops and remove Japanese
prisoners. On that voyage Captain Fish
held a service at the spot where the
Kqmata had been sunk, and in memory
of his chief officer who had been killed
by enemy shellfire threw overboard an
inscribed wooden cross. For any libellous
lines contaiAed in the accompanying
sketch. Drover, a fellow-Burdekinite,
accepts full responsibility.
“The Sky Pilot” to Six Divvy com-
rades in Greece and during the long
days of Stalag captivity, Padre Rex
Dakers, will shortly leave for Japan as
chaplain of the 65th Batt—after
a few months in charge of the Moorab-
bin (Vic.) Methodist Church, he has been
unable to resist the call of service life. An
expert gymnast, Dakers was one of the
most popular padres of the late war with
his emphasis on comradeship and field
sports. ' One of his activities in the
Stalags was organising classes and lec-
tures for lay preachers to fit them for
civil life. Recently at Moorabbin a visit-
ing dignitary found Dakers in shorts
ploughing an area for a tennis court. He
is a native of Scottsdale (Tas.) ahd had
his first ministry in the “Kelly country”
of Victoria, later roughing it in the
Mallee before receiving an appointment
to Footscray, from where he enlisted at
the outbreak of war.
Into the silence:
At Brighton (S.A.), on his 86th birthday,
John Pearce, a Methodist minister for the last
62 years. He was a Cornishman, who came
to Australia at three, worked in the copper
mines of Moonta, and much later became sec-
retary of a Home Mission Society and governor
of the Methodist training home. George Pearce,
of the Elder Conservatorium at Adelaide Uni,,
is a son.
At ’ Wanganui (MX.), at 91, Hope
Gibbons, a big figure in commercial circles
in Wanganui and Mayor from 1924 till 1928.
A native of Launceston, Tasmania, he arrived
in Maoriland when six years old and spent
half a century in Wanganui. Service as chair-
man of the Patriotic Fund in the first war
brought him a M.B.E. and he was a Com-
mander of the Order of St. John.
In Brisbane, on his 92nd birthday, Sydney
H. Tooth, a son of William Butler Tooth, who
bought Clifton station on the Darling Downs
in 1853, only 13 years after the Leslie brothers
had established the first white agricultural settle-
ment at Canning Downs. His mother was a
daughter of George Harris, a very early resident
of Brisbane, and his wife a granddaughter of
Samuel Marsden.
At Johannesburg, S. Africa, at 68, Dr.
Andrew Hardy Mackenzie, brothel of the late
Sir Colin Mackenzie. Educated at Melbourne
Scotch, he took medicine, joined the kitchener
Force in M.L. and served in the Boer War.
In 1914 he joined the Sussex Regiment and
served in Europe and later practised in J’burg.
He had a remarkable memory and could recite
whole chapters of Carlyle’s French Revolution.
A son was in Tobruk. In his young days the
doctor played football for Melbourne.


Missing Friends.
MACKAY or KAY, James, late of Woolloomooloo,
died 20th August, 1946. Would his next-of-kin or
any person knowing their whereabouts please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
INFORMATION WANTED concerning whereabouts of
BENJAMIN BANKS, formerly of Keighley, York-
shire, England. Apply The Bank of Adelaide, Sydney.
JOHN O’DONNELL, now aged (if alive) about 97
years who left Berkeley, near Wollongong, New
South Wales, about 1904, communicate with under-
mentioned —news to his advantage. Anyone knowing
his movements since then or his present whereabouts
or anv other information concerning him, please
advise* D’APICE & D’APICE, Solicitors, Wollongong.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Enthusiasts who have been packing
the Town Hall under the magic spell ot
Miklos Gafni’s wonderful voice seem
at a loss to know whether to dress
formally or informally. Rubbing shoul-
ders in the foyer was one concertgoer
who wore a swagger coat of water-mole
fur over her long black formal gown
and a lass wearing a brilliantly-flowered
plastic raincoat and matching hood. Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Tait were among those
who listened to the tenor and to the
stamping and unified handclapping be-
tween groups of songs. Mrs. Tait wore
a squirrel coat over her black frock. With
Penelope Nettlefold, also in a fur coat,
was Penelope Rous.
One of the brightest parties of Sheep
Show week was that given at No. 9
Darling-street concertedly by Mrs. T. S.
Austin, of Wanganella, Deniliquin
(N.S.W.); Mrs. Thomas Millear, of Stud
Park, Deniliquin; Mrs. T. O. Guthrie,
of Thermopylae, Willaura (Vic.), and
Mrs. A. R. Wiltshire, of Toorak. Guests
of honor were Peggy Austin, Anne Mil-
lear, Joan Wiltshire and Oliver Guthrie.
Massed blossoms decorated the ball-
room and reception rooms. Many of the
200 guests were from the country dis-
tricts of N.S.W., Victoria and Tasmania.
Mrs. Austin’s white crepe evening gown
was decorated with hand - painted
flowers; Mrs. Millear was in powder-
blue crepe; Mrs. Guthrie’s black
romaine gown featured an accordion-
pleated skirt; Mrs. Wiltshire was in
black lace. Peggy Austin wore an off-
the-shoulder blue brocade gown ; Anne
Millear wore white tulle; the skirt
bouffant, the bodice fitting ; Joan Wilt-
shire wore a strapless black faille taffeta
gown. Among the guests were Everil
Murray, who wore an orchid-mauve
brocade gown with an unusual waistline,
Molly Herring, whose blue-and-silver
brocade gown was worn with a match-
ing bolero, and Jennifer Chirnside in a
black satin gown spotlighted with
gardenias.
A letter received from Mrs. Sammy
Lee is full of Hollywood gossip. She
saw Ron Randall, who is busy on another
film, and she was .entertained by Gene
Tierney and her husband. Mrs. Lee says
Gene is a very lovely person and good
fun. She met Sonja Henie, who told her
she was going to New York for a rest —
“and that’s a laugh, for you can’t rest in
New York,” adds Mrs. Lee. Among other
celebrities she met Loretta Young, “very
sweet,” and Clark Gable, looking quite
slim and graying, but who has a “terrific
personality.” Mrs. Lee still thinks Aus-
tralian girls have more natural beauty
than any of Earl Carroll’s “lovelies,”
most of whom sport a beauty that is too
artificial.
Rev. Father Ebbsworth celebrated the
marriage of Pauline Margaret, elder
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. H. Roy Cash,
of Malvern, and Dr. Harry Greig Gum-
ming, elder son of Mrs. M. C. Gumming,
of Deepdene, and the late N. D. L. Gum-
ming at St. Peter’s, Toorak. The bride
wore a gown of ivory moire taffetas cut
on simple lines, with a roll-over collar
featured on the bodice and the very full
skirt falling away into a slight train at
the back. Her only ornament was a
single string of pearls which kept (he
long tulle bridal veil in place. She
carried a sheaf of arum lilies. Brides-
maids were the bride’s sister Margery,
Pat Green and Nan Kelly. Their gowns
were of powder-blue crepe and they
carried bouquets of daisies. Dr. Jack
Swann was bestman and David Gum-
ming and Dr. Douglas Marshall grooms-
men. The reception was held at
Menzies’.
At the Australian Steeplechase meet-
ing at Caulfield most women preferred
tailored suits and coats, but here and
there a luxury fur coat worn with the
plainest of accessories was seen. Flower
hats, although unsuitable for the day,
were in great demand. It was as though
they were, worn to bolster up flagging
spirits, and the high wind played havoc
with veils. Tailored in a black coat,
Lady Clarke added a cheery note to her
ensemble with the gay red feather which
trimmed her black hat. Mrs. Bernard
Heinze was wrapped in a fur coat, and
with it wore one of the new bowler hats
in olive-green felt. Mrs. Norman
Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C, chair-
man, set off her fair coloring with a
black velvet pancake beret which she
wore with a black coat. Mrs. Ralph
Michaelis, just back from Manila, where
she spent a short holiday with her hus-
band, Col, Ralph Michaelis, U.S. Army
Air Force Attache, was attractive in a
cream flannel coat with full bishop
sleeves and a flat beret of green angora.
Mrs. Jim Buchanan wore an unusual hat
of light-blue felt which toned with her
darker blue suit. A little touch of bur-
gundy in Mrs. Len Buxton’s navy-blue hat
was a contrast to her navy-blue wool
ensemble. Mrs. Harold Holt wore a
bottle-green tweed suit with a bottle-
green upturned felt hat.
Broothorn took this attractive picture
of Denise Boulton just before she re-
ceived her guests in the Marina Room of
the Australia for her 21st birthday party.
Denise, who is the only child of Cr. G.
R. and Mrs. Boulton, of East Melbourne,
joined the W.A.A.A.F. on leaving school
and was stationed in Melbourne for her
period of service. She is now doing sec-
retarial work. Tennis and golf occupy
her spare moments.
At the party Mrs. Boulton wore a
white crepe dinner gown, the front of the
bodice trimmed with copper sfequin coin
spots. The guest-of-honor was also in
white crepe with crystal beads embroider-
ing the bodice and cap sleeves. Bunty
Lee wore a pale-mauve crepe gown with
a draped hipline and a short white ermine
coat. Jess Reid pinned an orchid on the
shoulder of her black crepe dinner gown ;
Margaret Sellick had silver sfequin trim-
ming on her pretty aqua-blue crepe
gown. Mrs. Alan McKay, whose husband,
Dr. McKay, proposed the health of the
guest-of-honor, wore a blue-and-silver
brocade coat over her blue silver-em-
broidered gown. Mrs. Alex Slonim’s red
gown suited her brunette coloring. Mrs.
Peter Ferrie chose blue. May Angliss
covered her checked gown with a brilliant
red velvet fitting coat. At the end of the
dinner-party, Denise took her young
guests on to Claridges, where they danced
until the early hours.
Linda Parker, who 17 years ago went
to London to seek fame, has returned
home. She is here for an A.B.C, con-
cert tour, after which engagements with
the Sadlers Wells Opera Co. will take
her back to England. It was as a pianist
that Linda went away; then she dis-
covered she had a voice. Heard often
over the 8.8. C., she toured Germany
after the war giving concerts to the
troops. Linda is an arresting figure in a
black fan-tail coat and skirt of black
wool worn under a tailored coat of
green and mustard tweed.
Mrs, A. E. Shilladay and Mrs. Tim
Jones were co-hostesses at a party held
at the Shilladay Box Hill home in honor
of Mrs. A. Silk, who, with her daughters
Judith and Joan, leave this month for
America, and Margaret Crisp and Cap-
tain Bruce Cornish, who will marry at
St. John’s, Toorak, on August 30. Many
of the guests came on from a dinner
party which had been given by a few
friends to Mrs. Silk at the Australia.
Mrs. Shilladay wore a gown of black
crepe romaine. Mrs. Jones’s lame even-
ing gown was in pastel pink and silver.
Mrs. Silk’s black crepe gown was
splashed with gay flowers centred with
sparkling sequins. Margaret Crisp’s
powder-blue crepe gown was trimmed
with crystal beading. Ena Smith’s bal-
lerina frock was of dove-grey satin, the
full skirt allied to an off-the-shoulder
bodice which was centred with a cluster
of matching roses. Mrs. Jim Tuber’s
ensemble was of pale hyacinth-blue
crepe, the skirt draped, the top showing
one shoulder bare.
From Sydney
The late-afternoon party given by the
Governor and Mrs. Northcott for
Admiral Creasy and his officers sparkled
with youth. There were lots of Sydney’s
prettiest and best-dressed girls to talk to
the many young officers present. It
must have been the presence of so many
attractive girls which reminded Admiral
Creasy of his query when visiting Perth
some years ago: “In this city do you let
only the pretty girls live?” The party
ran on from 5.30 to the accompaniment of
a spirited composition of drinks and
savories. It was pleasant coming in from
the chill of the winter afternoon to the
spacious hall and reception-rooms warm
with firelight and the glow of camellias.
The Governor and Mrs. Northcott and
Admiral Creasy and Mrs. Creasy re-
ceived the guests inside the ballroom.
Mrs. Northcott’s afternoon frock was
cocoa-brown in shade. She wore a string
of pearls. Mrs. Creasy’s frock was in
two shades, the skirt black, the draped
bodice of primrose to tone with her off-
the-face felt hat. Marjorie Northcott,
whose afternoon black frock was long-
waisted, tucked a red rose in her dark
hair. Sister Elizabeth was in autumn-
browns, Premier McGirr came with his
wife, her silk frock cosily caped in fur.
The four captains of the visitirlg squadron
were among the guests ; so were Rear-
Admiral H. B. Farncomb and his wife.
Chief Justice Frederick Jordan and his
lady were at the party. From Mel-
bourne came the First Naval Member,
Admiral Sir Louis Hamilton, with his two
sisters —Mrs, Ronald Douglas and Miss
Hamilton,
Barbara Moore was with her parents,
Admiral G. D. Moore and Mrs. Moore,
who later were giving a buffet dinner in
honor of visiting naval officers. Rear-
Admiral Leighton Bracegirdle and his
lady were there. From Canberra came
U.K. High Commissioner Williams, his
wife and daughter Ivy.
Mrs. C. L. Jones’s grey frock was
worn under a grey Persian lamb coat.
Dr. Eugene Goossens and his wife were
among the noted. Her shoulder cape of
leopard-skin was worn over a black crepe
frock. Lois Graham, president of the
Victoria League Young Contingent, wore
a fur cape over a smart black afternoon
frock.
Mrs. Kenelm Dormer, who is at present
visiting her homeland, has spent much
of her life in Kenya, and has written
several novels which have for background
that part of British East Africa. Mrs.
Dormer is a member of the P.E.N. Club,
and mother of the late Hugh Dormer,
whose “Diaries” were published early
this year by Jonathan Cape. A Norton
Trevaire photograph.
Men of the Royal Navy and the Royal
Australian Navy 2000 of them
marched through the city last Thursday.
And where they get the chance to prac-
tise on their ships all cluttered up with
aircraft and guns and the decks so impec-
cable that a heel print makes the captain
cluck with disapproval, is a mystery. But
those boys certainly have the step and the
swing of it. They stepped from Mac-
quarie-street leaving behind them the
Domain, where the grass was bright green
and the trees glittered and expanded in
the still sunshine. They marched down
Martin-place led by Captain R. K. Dick-
son, Commander of Theseus, arms glinting,
and the'erowds hung the ways cheering
and applauding. They saluted the Ceno-
taph and, brave with the music of many
bands, they swung to the Town Hall.
Here the Governor, Lieut.-General
Northcott, took the salute. Here Sydney’s
populace thronged and packed the ways,
their plaudits splitting the midday air as
Captain Dickson lifted his sword to his
lips, and then swung the point downward
in what the Navy calls “the old sword
salute.” That was a sight to see.
With the Governor at the saluting base
were Rear-Admiral Creasy and Mrs.
Creasy, her grey topcoat matching her
grey hat; Premier McGirr and Mrs.
McGirr, and the U.K. High Commis-
sioner E. J. Williams, his wife and
daughter, Ivy, Lieut.-General Berryman
and Mrs. Berryman, Mrs. H. J. Buchanan
and other Navy importants. After the
parade the official group were entertained
in the Lord Mayor’s room. Alderman
William Becker was host in the absence
of the Lord Mayor, who is ill.
With his grand Norwegian opera
“Gerda” half completed, composer
Dudley Glass sailed away on Monday
in Marine Phoenix for New York,
There he will meet Madeline Mason,
who is writing the lyrics, and he
is hoping that soon the work
will be ready for production. In
the meantime he is booked for a lecture
tour throughout the States. This will be
the second of these tours he has made,
the first being the result of a 8.8. C.
broadcast heard in America by the Rcrd-
path Line Bureau, which immediately
booked him for seven. “Music round
the world” is the subject of these talks.
During the week the Jack Glass couple
gathered together a group of their friends
to wish their nephew goodbye and good
luck, and also to give them an oppor-
tunity of hearing some of his works.
Ron Jackson sang some Russian love
songs, and Mollie Grouse’s beauti-
ful voice was raised in arias from
“Gerda.” * “The Toymaker of Nurem-
burg,” another of this Australian’s works,
has been produced with great success in
London.
Before playing his own works, Dudley
warmed up the company by playing some
of the beautiful Strauss waltzes, and
works by Franz Lehar and Jerome Kern.
Dudley’s father came up from Mel-
bourne for this “do.” The Harald
Bowdens called in, also singer Alice
Prowse and her husband Hamish Brasch
were there. Knight Arthur Rickard and
Clive Evatt were two who voiced the
appreciation and good wishes of the
company.
The Women’s Section of the Australian-
American Co-operation Movement had
for its luncheon guests the daughters of
the Governor, Marjorie and Elizabeth
Northcott, W. J. Miskoe, newly-elected
president of the American Society, and
Miss Hurley, of the just-closed American
library. Marjorie Northcott made a neat
and compact little speech of thanks to
president Mrs. Florence Taylor, and Miss
Hurley said how sorry she and her col-
leagues were to leave Australia, where-
upon Eileen Fitzpatrick said how much
they and the library would be missed. Mr.
Miskoe spoke on co-operation in industry.
Other guests were Maoriland tenor
Newton Goodson, who is on his way to
England with a N.Z. Government scholar-
ship to study singing, and Elsa Stenning,
principal boy at the Tivoli.
Sydney certainly was not starved for
culture last Saturday. Tenor Miklos
Gafni met with uproarious applause from
a crowded Town Hall in the afternoon.
At the same address Della Chiesa, of the
beautiful soprano and beautiful clothes,
sang to an appreciative house in the
evening. At the Theatre Royal, ballet
on the grand scale was produced by
Borovansky. This ballet season has been
more than a success. It has become a
habit-with both grown-ups and children.
On Saturday night the big work was the
colorful and exotic “Scheherazade”;
romance breathed through “Lfe Spectre
de la Rose.” The final number, all
gaiety and fun, was Borovansky’s own
ballet, “Capriccio Italien.”
The S.U.D.S. opened a season of
“Hassan” to a crowded Con. last Satur-
day night The Elroy Flecker poem-
drama was repeated again on Monday.
Costumes and backgrounds are very
decorative and authentic, as they follow
the general directions of H. Wulff, who
spent some years in Persia. Dmitri
Makaroff took the name part, and John
Laurence the Caliph Haroun-al-Raschid.
Pauline Gallagher was Pervaneh, and the
role of Yasman was played by June
Wimble. This she will share in later pro-
ductions with Anne Pitsch.
Over £6OOO was raised for the Food
for Britain Fund from the All-Star Con-
cert in Theseus on Sunday night.
Of Princess Elizabeth’s speech after
having been given the freedom of the City
of London, Stephanie Edye says: “I will
never forget it. It*was so simple and so
beautifully spoken; it made me feel
prouder than ever of being British.”
Stephanie went to this ancient ceremony
with Sir George Elliston, who is a member
of the City of London Corporation. The
Guild Hall was massed with blue and
pink hydrangeas. Here were the Grena-
dier Guards, Came the Lord Mayor,
very gorgeous in his glorious red robes,
complete with chains of office and 50
members of the City of London Corpora-
tion, all very resplendent. Then came the
colorful procession of Lord Mayor and
his company down the hall to meet
Princess Elizabeth. In the procession
back to the dais it was on Princess Eliza-
beth that all eyes were fixed.


'EVERYBODY LOOKS UPAT
'big ben when they
WISH TO KNOW THE TIME"
A
to
■>
3Nr
n, Im 1
P^i=S=}=
asm
■” .. . • .X. v<-
R
w/. •• v
[.» :# ,:
"YES and they look out for
'BLACK & WHITE' WHEN THEY
WISH TO HAVE FINE SCOTCH WHISKY'
By Appointment
to H.M. King George VI
m
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
BLACK i: WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns
• W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, served.
1939.. 290,286* 10 p.c. = 181,250 109,036 1,914,998
Unexplained addition, £38,809.. 1,948,807
1940.. 260,621 10 p.c. = 200,000 7 R9l , QQQ . 0Q
To staff fund, £lO,OOO ) 50.621 1,999,428
Unexplained addition, £93,982.. 2,093,410
1941.. 270,657 10 p.c. = 200,000 70,657 2,164,067
Written off plantations, £35,000.. 2,129,067
Docking and repair a/c, £150,000 2,279,067
Unexplained addition, £217,129 2,496,196
1942.. 194,435 10 p.c. - 200,000 2.490,631
Unexplained addition, £305,399 5?,796,030
1943.. 201,464 10 p.c. = 200,000 1,464 2,797,494
Unexplained addition, £105,743 2,903,237
1944.. 226,572 10 p.c. = 200,000 ) ....... . aftQ
To staff fund, £25,000 ) 1,572 2,904,809
Unexplained addition, £112,658 3,017,467
1945.. 225,190 10 p.c. = 200,000 t
To staff fund, £21,373 ) 3,81/3,021,284
Unexplained addition, £121,516.. 3,142,800
1946.. 232,835 10 p.c. = 200,000 7
To staff fund, £30,100 ) 2,735 3,145.53 a
Unexplained addition, £57,438.. 3,202,973
1947. . 300,801 10 p.c. = 200,000 ) R 9 o 9ftl
To staff fund, £42,738 ) 58,063 3.261,036
8.-P.’s scrip is one of the leaders in the
market. The price advanced sharply
from the old official ceiling of 68s. 3d.
at end 1946 to 755. 3d. in January, 1947,
and then by halting steps to 82s. 9d. in
June. It is now 81s., giving an immediate
return of 2.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The investor at 81s, who looks for
approximately 3.5 p.c. on his money
counts on a 14 p.c. distribution, or other
benefits. He also values the undertaking
at £8,100,000, or £2,838,000-odd more
than its published net tangible book value.
Through good times and bad the
cautious management has kept the div.
steady at 10 p.c. over the last 28 years.
It is doubtful whether a better rate
need be expected until the present
economic fog lifts —and it seems likely to
become thicker before it clears. For the
same reason, an early issue of bonus
scrip looks even more doubtful, and the
flush state of the finances rules out pros-
pects of shareholders being asked for
more. There is, of course, the possibility
of a part return of capital, but that, too,
seems unlikely until the board can see
more clearly what lies ahead in relation
to shipping, island and other activities.
Despite delay in the rehabilitation of
war-devastated areas, owing to shortage
of shipping, materials and labor, there
was a brisk revival of trade last term.
Turnover increased by £1,450,831, reach-
ing a record £17,068,611, thus more than
regaining the ground lost during the
previous term, following the sharp taper-
ing of activity on war account. Gross
earnings stepped up £201,852:
1940. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Gross £ £ £ £
earnings. .1,284,081 1,593.523 1,473,807 1,675,659
Exes. . . 845,020 1,110,446 1,095,799 1,147,921
Balance .. 439,061 483,077 378,008 527,738
Depreciation,
bad debts,
etc. .. 178,440 288,642 145,173 226,937
Profit claimed 260,621 194,435 232,835 300,801
The growth of £52,122 in exes, was
moderate considering the lift in wages
and costs generally, and reinstatement of
staff from the services. The extra
£81,764 written off for depreciation and
bad debts was in respect of two planta-
tion cos. in New Guinea and one in the
Solomons. The net result (£300,801, up
£67,966) was 15 p.c. on capital as against
11.6, 11.2, 11.3,* 10, 9.7, 13.5 and 13 p.c.
back to 1940. That leaves out of the
reckoning £57,432 tossed into the insur-
ance reserve, etc., making it £1,911,319,
some or all of which might be genuine
profit.
The big merchandising, agency and
shipping business is handled from Sydney
headquarters and has 11 branches in Aus-
tralia, two in Maoriland and one* in
London. There is a subsidiary in San
Francisco, and a new offshoot, Burns
Philp (New Guinea), Ltd., took over the
parent’s interests in Papua and New
Guinea last term. Another subsidiary,
Penneys, runs a chain-store business in
Queensland' and the northern rivers dis-
trict of N.S.W. A substantial interest is
held in Burns Philp (South Seas), Queens-
land Insurance, Bankers and Traders In-
surance and Jantez (Aus.), Ltd., all
flourishing concerns. And during the last
few years the board has turned attention
to purchase of, or acquisition of a com
trolling interest in, old-established
country stores in N.S.W. (Albury, Wagga,
Cowra and Goulburn). Also, two hotels
at Cairns (Q.) were bought last term,
and Murrays, the big drapers at Parra-
matta (N.S.W.), was added to the list
since the close of accounts. In these in-
terests the board finds “less worries and
troubles” than in shipping.
The co.’s shipping interests suffered
considerably during the war. Six motor
vessels were lost, but only one replace-
ment has been ordered. The board is not
prepared to risk loss of shareholders’
money in planning and ordering future
tonnage until more is known about the
Government’s policy of nationalisation
of Australian coastal and island ship-
ping. Loss of that portion of
our national income represented by
this co.’s island and other shipping is a
socialistic extravagance the country can-
not afford. Suitable exemption from the
hobbling provisions of the Australian
Navigation Act should be granted, and
that without delay, to enable the co. to
compete against foreign shipping outside
Australian waters.
As soon as materials and labor become
available, the co. has a large building
programme ahead, both in Australia and
the islands. War-damage insurance is ex-
pected to cover only about 50 p.c. of cost
of re-establishing branches and island
properties.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1989. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Capitai . 2,ooo?ooo 2,009,000
Liabilities ..1,992,789 2,850,082 2,988,017 8,077,817
Pro ertiesand
sMpping. .1,758,140 2,625,008 2,223,678 2,341,901
investments,
Stock, advances! 60 ’ 373 2,047,903 3 > 989 ’ 330 3 ’ 585 ’ 366
etc.’ ..1,185,302 1,126,486 1,021,892 1,377,243
c2“'*:: 1, SoS:«; |« ; ™. »W|
The year’s growth of £355,351 in stocks,
etc., and £152,073 in book debts reflects
expanding trade. Shares in subsidiaries
(£1,036,045) increased by £178,219, mainly
because of country-store purchases and
formation Of the New Guinea subsidiary.
The £118,223 added to properties, etc.,
mirrors purchase of the two hotels a -
ready referred to. Government securities,
denosits and shares in other cos
snares in oiner cos.
(£2,549,321) were drawn upon for
£572,183
Malley’s, Ltd. (SydnevJ
... ,
J~~. —Dividends N Towards
a -i -> i re “ ~ . Ke " Ke "
April, profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£££ - £ £
1938.. 2400 Bp.c. = 16,000 10,545 6,016
moA l ' o ™ o r ®*“ n P ro P eTt y’ 299 • •
1939.. 28.328 2400 8 p.c. = 16,000 9,928 14,645
Profit sale property, £324 .. .. 14/969
6-97 p.c.
“ 15 ’ 149 28 ' 11S
1941.. 15,098 2160 7 p.c. = 14,000 1,998 so.iie
1942.. 22.502 -2100 7 „ „ 14,000 6,402 36,518
1943.. 21.873 2100 7 „ ” 14000 5773 42291
8 p.c.
4944 ■• 39 ’ 939 8 ” - P9 > 999 “> 989 ® 3 > 989
1945.-28,449 2400 8 „ „ 16,000 10,049 64,000
1946.. 33.365 2400 8 „ „i 6,000 14,965 78,974
„ 9 p- c -
1947.. 36.755 2700 10 „ ~25,983 8,072 87,046
A strong demand for the co.’s pro-
ducts is expected to continue for some
years, said the chairman 12 months back,
So an 11-acre block, on which a new
factory and offices is 1 to go up, was
bought at Auburn, near Sydney. To help
finance the purchase, provide for instal-
lation of plant and carry more stocks
and book debts, 100,000 new £1 ords.
were offered and snapped, one-for-two
at par, at the beginning of last term.
The following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows how the new capital,
and more besides, has been used;—
1940. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital. £230,000 £230,000 £230,000 £328,526f
Liabilities .. 127,620* 91,831 103,726 159,273*
Freeholds . . 90,738 100,275 112,006 122,842
Plant, etc... 49,072 43,578 56,287 68,231
stock .. 106,991 123,005 165,654 204,358
Book debts.. 139,239 116,109 106,737 143,857
Cash, etc. .. 1,791 5,954 12,075 58,194
* includes provision for taxation, t includes calls
paid in advance, £18,560.
Allowing for calls paid in advance
(£18,256), there was only £6476 of the
new capital to come in when the books
closed. Liabilities (up £55,547) now in-
elude provision for taxation. Additions
to asset's were freehold £10,836, plant,
etc £11944 stocks £3B 704 book debts
at
£37,120, cash, etc., £46,119. More or
less liquids exceeded liabilities by
£247,136 (up £66,396), a comfortable
position.
The works at Alexandria (N.S.W.)
turn out builders’ and plumbers’ hard-
ware, dairy utensils, kitchen equipment,
etc.; and there are three selling branches
in the N.S.W. metropolis and one at Bris-
bane, thus enabling the co. to gather a
retail as well as a manufacturer’s rake-
off. In Sydney and suburbs alone* the
value of permits for new buildings, alter-
ations, etc., totalled £23.5 millions for
the 11 months to end May last, compared
with £13.7 millions for the correspond-
ing period of 1945-46.
After allowing £8241 (up £2818) for
depreciation and an unspecified amount
for taxation the board figured net earn-
ings £3390 better at £36,755. That was
equal to 12.6 p.c. on average capital em-
ployed (pref. and ord. combined) as
against 14.5 p.c. for the previous year
and an average of 9.8 p.c. for the six
years before that. Last year’s new capi-
tal has not yet had a chance to develop
full earning power. The div. was lifted
from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. and the prefs.—
30,000 9 per cents., subject to the out-
moded N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act-
got their full contract rate. The £8072
that remained lifted reserves £87,046 in
excess of goodwill (£22,682), not treated
as an asset herein.
As for prospects, the outlook on the
demand side is bright. It will be years
before the backlog of home and other
building is overtaken. The uncertain
factors affecting net earnings are high
and rising costs and price control. The
full effects of the 40-hour week and re-
cent wage lifts have yet to be felt.
Rumors of a merger of the business with
General Industries have been emphati-
cally denied by the chairman of each co.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the ords at 40s. 6d., at which figure
the return is 4.9 p.c. so long as the 10
p.c. div. continues. Sellers ask 355. for
the prefs., at which figure the yield is
5.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribution,
Edwards Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 33,005 9J p.c. = 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 .. .. 316,147
19387. 37,091 9§ p.c. 2,180 318,327
1939.. 39,681 10 „ „ 37,596 2,085 320,412
Contingency reserve disclosed, £23,000 343,412
1940.. 42,020 10 p.c. =: 37,596 4,424 347,836
1941.. 43,100 »10 „ „ 37,596 5,504 353,340
1942.. 37,702 10 „ „ 37,596 106 353,446
1943.. 88,006 10 „ „ 37,596 410 353,856
1944.. 38,200 10 „ „ 37,596 604 354,460
Added contingencies reserve, £22,000.. 376,460
1945.. 38,674 10 p.c. = 87,596 1,078 377,538
Warehouse reserve, £36,000 .. .. 413,538
1946.. 89,500 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,904 415,442
Net addition reserves, £64,165 .. 479,607
1947.. 40,789 10 p.c. = 37,596 8,193 482,800
Declared profits don’t tell the full story
and larger handouts to shareholders
would easily have been possible in recent
years. Instead, great strength has been
added to the co.’s financial resources; a
policy in line with the traditional
prudence of the directors, though it may
hint at plans for expansion. At present
there are branches in Melbourne and
Brisbane, besides the Sydney head-
quarters, helping to conduct Edwards
Dunlop’s wholesale business in paper,
printers’ requisites and stationery.
• Of the £64,165 added to published re-
serves last term, “part” came from the
year’s profit, says the chairman, and
“part” from inner reserves. Moreover,
£5380 spent on new plant and vehicles
during the year doesn’t appear in the
balance-sheet because the full amount
“has been written off”—apparently
against profit.
Similarly, in 1946 the £36,000 added to
published reserves was partly supplied
from the year’s profit and partly from
inner reserves. In addition, “certain inner
reserves” themselves were strengthened
from profit.
Thus the true earnings in recent years,
or the actual rate of improvement, cannot
be computed. Shareholders may only
note that disclosed profit rose by £1289
last year ; that turnover, according to the
chairman, “shows a large increase” ; and
that provision for income-tax, which
amounted to £76,910 in 1945, is now
approaching twice that figure:
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £375,965 £375,965 £375,965 £375,965
Liabilities .. 109,650* 229,601 227,059 221,414
Tax reserve . . -—■ 76,910 116,977 135,766
Freeholds . . 120,565 126,381 126,381 126,381
Stocks . . 137,258 187,407 258,447 344,987
Debtors . . 445,781 284,026 336,712 391,111
Cash, bonds
and shares 118,822 471,599 423,303 3 62,865
* Including tax provision, etc.
Some indication of the increased turn-
over appears in the rise in book debts by
£54,399 (or 16 p.c.) and in stocks by
£86,540 (33 p.c.). But each of these items
appears in the balance-sheet after deduc-
tion of an inner reserve —and changes in
the latter may have affected movements in
the published figures. These higjier stocks
and debts were financed from the year’s
surplus earnings and by £60,437 drawn
from cash and investments. Investments,


Miscellaneous.
EXECUTlVES—Opportunity to secure the services of
PRIVATE SECRETARY (male). Highly experienced
in top positions. Aged 35 years. Comm, salary
£5OO. —No. 322 C/o “Bulletin,” Sydney.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest,
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc,,
Headmaster.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT SPECIALS.
Guitars from £5/5/-. Clarinets, ,£6/10/-.
Drum Outfits, Saxophones, Piano
Accordions, etc. Write for Lists.
Our Shop is as near as your Post Office.
CLEMENS MUSICAL SERVICE,
31 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ring Central 1808.
The Mutual Life and Citizens 7
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
. a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £51,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£7,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
TRADE MARK
“CELLOPHANE”
NOTICE is hereby given that British
Cellophane Limited, of Bath Road,
Bridgwater, Somerset, England,
Manufacturer, is the registered
owner in the Commonwealth of
Australia of the following Trade
Mark:—
“CELLOPHANE”
which is registered under No.
40461 in Class 50(3) in respect of
Cellulose sheets made from pulp
and all products and articles
manufactured from the said sheets.
The application of the word
CELLOPHANE ” to goods of the
above-mentioned class means that
such goods are the goods of
British Cellophane Limited.
é
PUBLIC 7 TRUSTEE
Acts A.s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nott, Public Trustee.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 11 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
« « » *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
TRAVEL IN GREAT BRITAIN
JLn ouj. :
UU, NORWICH
Recovery from war-time conditions is still proceeding
although handicapped by fuel shortages. We are
anxious to welcome visitors from Australia and if
they find train services not quite so frequent or speedy
as before the war, we are sure they will understand.
The world-famous FLYING SCOTSMAN, which never
failed to run during the war, continues its daily journey
over the historic route between LONDON and
EDINBURGH.
LONDON & NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
of England and Scotland.
Representatives in Australia: j
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 7 Bridge Street, SYDNEY, and branches.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ê
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
J-viv
A Customer for
112 years
In the year of its commencement this
Bank had the honour to be appointed as
Bankers to the Colony, and since the Colony
became a State the arrangement has been
continued.
In advising the Secretary of the State of
his action, Governor Bourke on January 12,
1835, wrote:
“Towards the close of last year a third
banking establishment of equal solidity and
credit with either of the others has been formed
in Sydney . Application was made to me by
the directors to place some of the Treasury
balance in their bank . . . I thought it desirable
to accede to their request and have directed
the Treasurer to lodge and keep up £5,000 in
the Commercial Bank under the same regula-
tions as to Government deposits in the other
two.”
Thus began an Association with the State of
New South Wales that still endures. In addition,
the Bank has had the honour of serving the
Government of Victoria for many years.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Board of Directors;
EDWARD R. KNOX. Chairman.
GEOFFREY P. HUGHES, Deputy Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS,
DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT, Dr. EDWARD W. FAIRFAX,
R. J. VICARS.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNE.
also, are taken in “at cost less reserve
and so appear “at less than market
value.” In spite of which, cash and in-
vestments nearly equal the co. s paid
capital.
Overseas paper shipments are now
coming in better (particularly from
Scandinavia), although the outlook in
North America is doubtful. With im-
proved stocks at the beginning of the
new term and a growing local output,
the co.’s supply position seems better than
for many years. As for demand, there
is so far no sign of a fallingnotf. Co. s
advances to the printing trad&fare large,
' but less than pre-war, and the eminently
t cautious board says all book debts “are
adequately covered by securities and re-
l serves.”
Since becoming a public co. in 1915,
' Edwards Dunlop has never paid more
t than a 10 p.c. div. (and only the slump
in the ’thirties has ever made it pay less).
The large addition to published reserves
; last year brought the free-reserve fund
(apart from contingencies reserve, etc.)
level with paid capital; but the board
may still decide to continue beyond that
, figure, or to increase inner reserves. At
current price of 645. 6d. each, present
yield from the co.’s shares is 3.1 p.c.
To yield 4 p.c. on that price, div. must
advance to 13 p.c. Net tangible backing
is 465. 2d. per £1 share.
“Ex”: A syndicate is overhauling the
Ewan (Kangaroo Hills Field, N.Q.) tin
battery, idle since 1942, with a view to
treating ore dumps and reopening some
of the old mines worked about 1890 in
Dr, R. L, Jack’s time. Another party,
Little Bros., has landed 20 tons of lead
ore at Townsville from the Macaulay
Creek area, a few miles south of Ewan.
Early in the century a blast furnace
operated in Ewan on ores from these
areas as well as from the Thekla mine,
on Oakey Creek, about five miles north-
west from Ewan. Smelting troubles and,
finally, lack of feed from these mines
led to a closure, and the smelter was re-
moved to Hampden-Cloncurry district.
Dr. Jack reported on the area in 1892
and Government geologist Reid in 1931,
* * * *
“O.B.”: Deep-level developments along
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile are good,
especially in Great Boulder and North
Kalgurli. Rising costs, owing mainly to
more expensive supplies and increases in
the basic wage, and paid holidays are the
troublesome problem. Chairman of
Boulder Perseverance (Dr. K. B.
Edwards) recently told shareholders that
costs rose last year by £32,ooostg. with-
out the co. getting any more for its main
product—gold. Last year Is. 7d. a week
was added to the basic wage, making the
minimum rate £6 7s, a week. Early in
1947 the rate was further increased by
6s, a week, and the number of paid
holidays rose from 15 to 22.
* * * *
Two local speculators, George Moss
and Richard Burt, have taken options
on the Mountain View goldmine
at Day Dawn, and on adjoining
ground formerly worked by the defunct
Great Fingall C(j. The price asked for the
Mountain View, from which rich crush-
ings have been extracted in the last few
years, is said to be “one of the biggest
known in the State.” Since 1942 Moun-
tain Vie\y has produced approximately
£325,000-worth of gold from some 8000
tons ore, and a further 200 tons just
broken is expected to yield 1400 oz. The
intention is to test the Mountain View
at greater depth, and to unwater and
explore the upper levels of the Great
Fingall.
* * * *
Shortage of fuel, owing to scarcity of
labor in the firewood areas, has given
rise to talk of supplying Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile mines with coal by rail from
Collie. This is not regarded as a very
practical solution for two reasons: (1)
difficulty in producing the extra coal and
(2) difficulty in transporting it. State
railways are short of both engines and
trucks, and it will be some time (probably
three years) before enough are available
to convey sufficient coal to meet the
requirements of the Golden Mile cos.
* * * »
Westralia’s gold yield continues on the
up-grade. For the first half of 1947 pro-
duction at 324,367 fine ounces was 72,382
ounces more than for the first half of
1946. Bulk of the Output still comes
from the Kajgoorlie group of producers,
with Sons of Gwalia, Central Norseman
and Big Bell contributing most of the
balance. Increased tonnages from some
of these mines helped swell recent re-
sults, and so did good, and in some in-
stances rich, returns from outback smaller
shows.
* * * •
“Bullionist”: Mauricio Hochschild,
described by the International News Ser-
vice as ruler of the big Bolivian tin-mining
industry and owner of one of the world’s
great fortunes, was in Westralia about 40
years ago. He then represented a Ger-
man firm which was interested in one
big Kalgoorlie goldmine and in a group
of copper shows at Ravensthorpe
Hochschild in those days was well
groomed. He shared with Claude de Ber-
nales the distinction of being the best-
looking, best-dressed man on the gold
fields.


a
m
TOOTH’S SHEAF STOUT . . . Brewed by TOOTH S CO. LIMITED
SS 154 2«
Personal.
THOMPSON Jessie Louisa (also known as Janet),
Nee Muir, late of Parramatta Widow died intestate
■Both April 1946 and administration of her estate has
been granted to the Public Trustee of N.S.W. She
was born on 9th July 1862 at Sandridge Victoria
to ARCHIBALD JAMES (or WILLIAM) MUIR
Labourer and Louisa formerly Marshall and in 1884
married at Balaclava Victoria Warden Carle Baker
who died in 1889 and in 1892 married at Paddington
N.S.W. Charles Lindsay Thompson who died in 1936.
It is believed that no children were born to her.
Her mother the said Louisa Muir formerly Marshall
died 24th December 1879 at Emerald Hill Victoria
when her father the said Archibald James (or
William) Muir was believed to have been present
and if he survived the said Jessie Louisa Thompson
deceased he would be entitled to her estate which
otherwise will pass to the children (or issue of de-
ceased Children) of the said Archibald James (or
William Muir and the said Louisa Muir formerly
Marshall or of either of them. Therefore let the
said ARCHIBALD JAMES (or WILLIAM) MUIR and
all such children or if deceased their issue and their
Legal Personal Representatives particularly ROBERT
CHARLES MUIR, ARCHIBALD JAMES MUIR and
REUBEN JOHN MUIR submit their claims to the
undersigned within four months from the publication
hereof when the estate of the said Jessie Louisa
Thompson deceased will be distributed having regard
only to those claims of which notice is received.—
PUBLIC), TRUSTEE, IB O’Connell Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"THE BEGGARS' OPERA."
It would either make a great hit or be
damned confoundedly.— Congreve.
An assertive and safe criticism. Even
though the doubt has been resolved con-
sistently over the last 200 years, however,
and is being further resolved by Doris
Fitton’s Independents at North Sydney,
it is as understandable as Pope’s cautious
indecision: “It will make a great noise,
but whether of claps or hisses, I know
not.”
At first it was topical, and no doubt
the topical point to its satire accounted to
some degree for its first and record-
breaking run of 62 performances—a
record that stood for nearly a century.
But Walpole, Molly Skerrit, Jonathan
Wild, Jack Sheppard and their times and
politics—and the great vogue for Italian
opera—are buried beneath 200 years and
any claims to topicality along with them.
Then, of course, it was “dangerous.*”
When, as Boswell records, “the common
question” was “whether it was pernicious
in its effects,” the censors of the day
no doubt saw it as a threat to public
morals, and it would have been vastly
entertaining on that score alone. While
some worried with Johnson “that it may
have some influence, by making the
character of the rogue familiar, and in
some degree pleasing,” others must have
agreed with the “ingenious observation
by Mr. Gibbon that ‘The Beggars’ Opera’
may perhaps have sometimes increased
the number of highwaymen; but it has
had a beneficial effect in refining that
class of man, making them less ferocious,
more polite—in short, more like gentle-
men.”
And, no doubt, while the controversy
raged and “Pro Bono Publicos” wrote to
the papers about it, the majority went to
the theatre and agreed with Boswell that
“there is in it so much of real London
life, so much brilliant wit, and such a
variety of airs, which, from early associ-
ation of ideas, engage, soothe, and enliven
the mind, that no performance which the
theatre exhibits delights me more.”
For a while it was a museum piece in
several ways—an old political commen-
tary ; Gay’s “most ample satisfaction
upon King, Queen and Ministers” ; an
attack on Italian opera ; or the beginning
of what Gilbert and Sullivan finished, or,
at least, exploited to the stage of tem-
porary exhaustion. And then, in 1920,
it kicked off again at the Lyric, Ham-
mersmith, for a marathon run of 1463
performances, a record that could not by
any means be accounted for by the re-
furbishing jt had received.
And, having been written off and
accounted for as topical, dangerous, a
museum piece, and other things, it is
still bringing ’em in. Possibly its light,
tuneful ditties have something to do with
it —operettas and musicomedies form the
larger part of any list of long runs.
More probably, Johnson hit the nail on
the head when he attacked with “There
is in it such a labefactation of all prin-
ciples as may be injurious to morality.”
Audiences, provided their own principles
aren’t attacked or provided their assump-
tions of Catholicism aren’t destroyed, will
always line up to see principles “labefac-
tated”—as Shaw has proved to his profit.
Whatever it has lost, “The Beggars’
Opera” still has its “brilliant wit,” which,
although it may have had added point
in its day, is as enduring as it is old
because it is directed as much at human
behavior in general as it was at people
m particular. Hazlitt confirmed that:
“All sense of humanity must be lost
before ‘The Beggars’ Opera’ can cease
to fill the mind with delight and admira-
tion.” It doesn’t need Walpole or Molly
Skerrit to give point to:
How happy could I be with either
Were t’other dear charmer away
light though it is. And
When you censure the age
Be courteous and sage
Lest the Courtiers offended should be:
If you mention vice or bribe
Tis so pat to all the tribe
Each cries “That was levelled at me.”
does not apply only to the early
eighteenth century.
The Independents are playing Caspar
Middleton’s production and, although
they could have given it a little
more of the lusty vitality with
which they invested “Volpone,” they
are playing it well. On the open-
ing night it began slowly but came
to life from the moment Edward Smith
(Peachum) entered with a burst of song
—he contrived the grand manner, lace
ruffles at his wrists and fancy footling
with a lace handkerchief as though accus-
tomed to them from the cradle. John
Faassen, as Macheath, at first showed a
little of the nimble skittishness of his
fine performance as Mosca, but soon
slipped into the role of the swaggering,
wenching highwayman and played it near
to perfection. He’s an excellent actor
and sings well. Polly Peachum, by
Peggy Ford-Carrington, was slightly
underdone, and Mrs. Peachum, by Mary
Hosking, was slightly overcooked ; Diana
Perryman (Lucy Lockit) and Perk Alison
in a brief appearance as Jenny Diver
were warm and natural.
Roy Nettheim (Lockit) and John Craig
(Filch) were both good, and the rest of a
cast of “turnkeys and rusners” and
whatnot made up for any histrionic limi-
tations by seasoning the general flavor
of the piece, particularly in the colorful
choruses. The music (two pianos), under
the direction of Dorothy Wood, was
excellent, as were the costumes designed
by Elizabeth Jacobs and Ken' Kennedy.
Four Singers.
Last week Sydney had a feast of songs
which ranged over 400 years.
The art of the feminine duet, almost
dead in Australia from long neglect, was
revived by Viola Morris, soprano, and
Victoria Anderson, contralto, at their
recital at the Con. In some pleasing
solos each revealed a voice short of the
super class yet of fine timbre and tech-
nically well-equipped. Together, the
voices blended to perfection with a
volume balance beautifully maintained.
This latter quality was especially notable
in the more fragile songs such as Brahms’
“Phanorrien,” Schumann’s “Schon Blu-
melein” and Heinrich Schutz’s “Herr Ich
Hoffe Darauf, Psalm 13, 6.” In the
more robust numbers, “My Dearest, My
Fairest” and “Sound the Trumpet” were
sung as such Purcell fare should be sung
—with a lilt and disciplined vigor. From
Dvorak’s twentieth century Moravian
airs to those of Couperin’s seventeenth
century France, from Handel and Cesar
Franck to Max Reger and the present-
day Englishman Frank Bridge—his
Graceful Swaying Wattle” delightfully
sung every song was given an interpreta-
tion which had obviously been well
analysed.
Vivian Della Chiesa, at the Town Hall,
chose from as wide a repertoire as any
visiting singer has presented, again show-
ing the best of her vocal paces in opera.
J n the “Sake, Sake” (“The Willow
Song ) from Verdi’s “Othello” the pas-
sionate |Hjgency of the ill-starred Desde-
mona s death presentiments was admir-
ably captured in the asides to the chief
melody. “One Fine Day” from “Madame
Butterfly” and the lively “Voi Che
Sapete from “The Marriage of Figaro”
brought swelling volume and, in the
lighter passages, a sweetness that never
cloyed. A bracket of Andalusian love
songs was given with the right degree
of coquettishness. And for an American
singer of Italian extraction to sing
Cornin’ Through the Rye” with complete
conviction is certainly a feat. Again
William Sumner was an alert accom-
panist.
Miklos Gafni was short of a laryngeal
gallop for his opening number, “Panis
Angelicus,” by Franck, at his Town Hall
matinee. He struck better form in
Handel’s “Ombra Mai Fui,” and by the
time he reached the operatic group he
was almost at his top, though the higher
reaches of “Vesti la Giubba” didn’t pro-
duce quite the mass of tone he had man-
aged in earlier concerts. An aria from
“Eugene Onegin” was given “the works”
in the true Tschaikowsky opera manner.
Again the Hungarian folk songs and
Neapolitan numbers were rendered with
delightful persuasiveness and limpidity of
tone. Leo Demant, the accompanist, was
impressive in Respighi’s arrangement of
some ancient Italian airs.
* * * *
The tramp of thousands of feet was
introduced into the Town Hall at
Gafni’s first Melbourne recital. The
noise didn’t arise while the young Hun-
garian tenor was singing his classical
panel of Giordano, Scarlatti, Caccini,
Schubert and Mozart, but when he turned
to a Neapolitan ditty it became devastat-
ingly apparent. It rose to a shattering
crescendo when he followed that up with
“Santa Lucia.” If A.B.C. continues its
propaganda about new who
aren’t Carusos, yet, the result will prob-
ably be the premature demolition of the
Town Hall building. Mr. Gafni is a
natural singer, but he may have a long
way to go before he justifies the exalted
label put upon him. There were lovely
moments in “This Vision Is Surpassing
Fair” of Mozart, and sensitiveness in
Caccini’s “Amarilli.”
The Dominant Sex.
Sex equality, with its inevitable argu-
ments, i§ the main theme of Michael
Egan’s amusing play “The Dominant
Sex,” produced by the Australian Theatre
Guild in Brisbane. The author shows
a remarkable knowledge of the workings
and wiles of the female mind, but
whether he solves the problem of sex
equality and proves which is the domi-
nant sex is left to the audience.
In extremely long parts the main
theme is presented by a husband (Peter
Buchanan) and wife (Coila McCracken),
both of whom prove capable of produc-
ing the light and shade necessary to
make them interesting despite their being
almost never off stage. Miss McCracken’s
timing and diction were excellent, but
she showed a faint over-emphasis in her
acting at times. Buchanan started
slowly in the first act, but improved to
give a good characterisation.
In minor but amusing roles Gloria
Birdwood Smith and Frank Evans were
good, and John Francis, Edna Fenner,
Blair Heffernan and Tony Dick com-
pleted a capable cast.


TIME -
iIMFffID
For over 54 years CAPSTANS have
teen firm favourites all over the British
Empire. At present, unfortunately,
the full demand from eager CAPSTAN
smokers cannot te met, but the output
is gradually improving. The consistently
fine quality of CAPSTAN’S OWN
BLEND (whether Mild, Medium or
Full Strength) ensures that it is always ~
TIME FOR A CAPSTANI
fl
* m
f
m •
SPEC
mv
Tim tfw a
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE’S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
in fhe smart MU> packs
666 P-8.47
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
D. Munro put in an appearance at Rosehill
on Saturday, having three mounts for a winner
and a second. That’s been about his average
for the season just concluded, in which, with-
out doing enough riding to be in the running
for leading jockey, he still beat the others
hollow in percentage of winning mounts, rne
fickle mob cheered him to the echo when he
returned to scale after winning a seven-turlongs
Mixed Stakes on Man At Arms. The ghost
of'a grin hovering round Darby’s granite dial
suggested that he recalled other occasions.
Ignoring the paint shortage, Man At Arms
stuck to the rails in downing Chessman and
All Gold. Chessman, a Veilmond four-year-
old, might be worth remembering as having
finished much the best of the three. One
wonders if Mulley, who rode Chessman, has
not, possibly, developed a Bernborough com-
plex. He has a tendency to ask his mounts
to put up the sort of brilliant late finish in
which Bernborough excelled, but the mounts
are no Bernboroughs.
On Murray Stream, the hottest favorite of
the day, Mulley almost erred in the opposite
direction. Taken to the front near the furlong
mark, the Midstream horse began to loaf on
it and, with Mulley hard at work, was within
a nose of going down to the fast-finishing
Nepean River. The race was the Rosehill
Handicap of 10 furlongs, and Silver Link’s
third indicated that he should still be capable
of winning this type of event.
Following on his excellent effort of the pre-
vious week, Lackaboy (J. Thompson) finished
much too stoutly for the other 20-odd who
contested the Flying. Connections of Decorate
chose the sprint, for which he was favorite,
in preference to a nine-furlongs Welter. They
missed out by three parts of a length, but
should get a return of the money soon, as
should those who made Monogram second
favorite; Monogram finished well to be third.
The Welter passed over by Decorate went to
High Tide, lacing Blanmar and Drummer Boy.
The next month or so should reveal whether
or not Temeraire has stamina as well as his
undoubted brilliance. If he hasn’t there are
likely-looking customers ready to wrest Derby
honors from him. Sure to be one of the best
of them, Karachi made a reappearance after
a spell in the seven-furlongs Mixed Stakes,
and did all that one would expect of a really
good ’un. Karachi appears to have grown
considerably and must stand over 17 hands.
One of the most beautifully-bred colts racing
here, he looks and gallops every inch the
part of his pedigree. He had only turned
three the previous day and, as well, needed the
run, but was still able, well-ridden by Sellwood,
to down Prince Midas, Menelik and others
older and in better condition than himself.
Another promising one to be in the money
again was the four-year-old Lucky Robin. One
would have expected him to have expended
all effort after seeing G. Podmore practically
standing in the stirrups fighting to hold him
throughout the greater part of the 12-furlongs
Mixed Stakes, yet, given his head in the straight,
Lucky Robin fairly sailed away from them.
It was five lengths to Regal Light, just shading
Binnia Lassie. Like Karachi, New Zealand-
bred and bred well, Lucky Robin, with due
allowance for the poor quality of the bunch
he beat, looks the makings of a fair stayer.
There’s certainly ample room for such in
Sydney.
Just-turned three-year-olds had a lash in a
handicap for that age which saw Staunch win
from Willie’s Choice and improving Sibelius.
* * * *
For the running of the Australian Hurdle
at Caulfield, Melbourne produced what an
English writer had in mind when he said that
“the ’chasing season does not coincide with
that of strawberries and cream.” It was really
bitter, with a howling north wind. Stilt, a
favorite or two did their best to alleviate the
punters’ misery.
Not among them was First Aid, favorite for
the Hurdle. He looked likely as he ranged up
to The Feline approaching the final jump,
but muffed the jump and lost all chance. G.
Godfrey reported that The Feline was pulling
so hard that he had no option but to let him
go to the front about a mile from home.
From that point to the finish the winner had
no opposition apart from First Aid’s- brief
challenge. Boondaie and Repeater both passed
First Aid to bag the minor placings. Trained
by Alec Fullarton, The Feline is a gelding by
the Solario horse Solar Bear, who was a winner
in England at up to two miles.
Doing nothing to raise the hopes of his
prospective Australian Steeple opponents,
Formidable started at 11 to 4 for the Godfrey
Watson Steeple and comfortably justified the
odds. From his Grand National 9.2 he was
bumped up to 10.6 for the Australian Steeple,
but carried 10.10 on Saturday without much
strain. He’s big enough to carry a ton. In
the Watson Steeple, Bickham sat hard against
Formidable for two miles before giving him
his head over the final three furlongs. Gold
Rein ran a fair race for second money; Krallis
was third.
A few weeks back on a course not equipped
with the camera, Thor and St. Buzz staged a
grand tussle to dead-heat for first, Thor con-
ceding his younger opponent 171 b. St. Buzz
having since then had another start for another
head-heat, the pair met again in the Morning-
ton Welter, which produced almost a repetition
of the previous effort with the pair of them
locked together at the finish. This time, how-
ever, the difference in weights wa£ reduced to
91b., which plus the camera, decided the issue;
Thor (W. Williamson) by a head, and Star of
India third.
Another tiptop effort under a Big weight on
the heavy track was that of Hellenist (H.
Badger) in the Balaclava Shakes. The handi-
oapper had them summed up aright, Nos. one,
two and three in the book being Hellenist
(9.13), Drama (8.13) and Stenelaus (8.7) which
is how they finished. Badger started the season
off on the right leg, being also successful on
the Dhoti horse Hindu Prince in the six-furlongs
Moondah Plate. With three furlongs to go
Hindu Prince seemed hopelessly out of it and
blocked by a mass of horses, but quick advan-
tage was taken of an opening which onerea
in the straight. Responding gamely, Hinou
Prince came through and was leaving them at
the finish; Lone Wind and Aggressor next best.
The Elsternwick Stakes for three-year-old
fillies provided two fields of 21 starters each.
Ridden by A. Dewhurst, Fiddle was the popular
choice for the first devision and again won
impressively, downing Astorette and Voucher,
“Now, look what you've done —gone and busted the paddle!"
with Angiya a fourth worth noting. In_ the
second division Grecian Gold, a Pure Gold
filly, led all the way to defeat Del Rose and
Kindling in one and a half seconds better time
than Fiddle had recorded.
* * * *
Most interesting events of the Bank Holiday
meeting at Randwick on Monday were a couple
for just-turned three-year-olds. The one for
fillies (approximately six furlongs) went to
Rosewell (D. Weir), defeating topweight Sqeanne
and Rhapsody; Sueanne’s a promising run
after being a long way back. The event for
colts and geldings (approximately a furlong
further) was won by Royal Lad (E. Doon),
downing Skip Court and Marine Victory. Royal
Lad may be better even than this win indicates,
* * * *
The track records of Maa Leesh, Highstrung,
Felt Force and others were not the only new
figures set in Queensland racing during the past
season. The stakemoney distributed reached
an aggregate of £187,805, close to £30,000
higher than the previous best. Altogether it
has had the appearance of a boom year, but
pointing the other way are the cold facts of
declining tote turnovers and the nearly incredible
story of a bookie handing in his licence be-
cause the game wasn’t paying. At the same
time several paddock bookies were lowered
a peg when inspection of their books confirmed
complaints that they weren’t doing business
on a sufficient scale to justify their continued
operation in the paddock.
* . * • * *
With the stars of all States in Hobart
for the Australian Rules carnival, the
V.F.L. contented itself with three games
on Saturday and the only astonishment
was Essendon’s downing Carlton in the
last quarter. The 40,000 who watched
it were nearly hysterical at the last change,
the scores having run Essendon-Carlton,
1.5-1.4, 4.8-4.8 and 7.10-7.10. Then the
Dons unwound one of their “Same Old”
bursts and swamped the Blues to score
6.6 to 2 points, making it 13.16-7.12. At
St. Kilda the locals made a fair showing
against • Fitzroy, but were beaten, 10.17-
9.9, and at Richmond the Tigers had a
gambol with Hawthorn, 13.17-8.7.
In Hobart Tasmania beat N.S.W, and
Queensland; N.S.W. beat Canberra;
S.A. beat W.A. The giants clash next
Saturday when Victoria meets S.A.
♦ * * *
Combining smoothly, Rugby Union
premiers Eastern Suburbs downed St.
George 43-21 at the Showground. St.
George five-eighth Ron Campbell played
a dashing game and East’s full-black Noel
Hey wood scored 16 points, converting
eight goals, including some tough ones.
Gordon winger Bruce Paterson also
scored 16 points, his team beating Uni-
versity 19-5. Bill Wright, the hooker, was
outstanding for University. Northern
Suburbs beat the weak Eastwood team
36-16, Roger Cornforth playing an excel-
lent loose game, and scoring 12 points.
Drummoyne stopped Randwick rushes
effectively, standing up on the backs and
finally winning 18-12, and West beat
Parramatta 15-3, West’s pack working
like horses. Boland made good openings
but often found himself on his own:
Parramatta badly needs a goal kick.
The Union match of the day was St.
Joseph’s v. “Shore” for the Great Public
Schools premiership. “Joeys,” very hard
pressed towards the end, won a grand
game, 12-11.
* * * *
S’Africans in England:
It was England easily by 10 wickets in the
fourth Test at Leeds, Winning the toss, the
c’Africans crashed on a rain-damaged wicket
for Mitchell 53, Nourse 51. Fast bowler
B„.l” 7 for 34. Edrich 3 for 46, Wrtght
2 Between rainstorms Hutton (100) and Wash-
brook W (75) r gave England a good startand
g SH6SJWS wtfh'M (Nmnse
57) Hutton and Washbiook quickly hit up
She runs Butler “ok 7 wjekets for 66
in thp match Cranston s 4 for 12 (all witn six
deliveries 1 in the last over) brought the sudden
“over the 500-runs mark in the Tests
$?. fv! n i
Wright ( ( 15 14 fo? V 292 Tuckett (16 Sr 506)
lead the wicket-takers. Smith, of S’Africa,
bagged 7 for 189 in the first Test.
Umpire Frank Chester, of Worcestershire,
ordered the replacement of fast bowlers Butler
and Edrich (Eng.) and Tuckett and Dawson
(S’Africa) by slower trundlers in the fourth
Test. Bad light was given as the reason. The
matter will be reviewed by the M.C.C. Chester s
authority comes under Law 43, which stipulates
that “umpires are entitled to intervene without
appeal in the case of unfair play.” Chester
has umpired in half a hundred Tests, so he’s
not likely to be disturbed by any such outburst
as that of Bill O’Reilly: “No Australian cap-
tain worthy of his salt would be dictated to
by any umpire in such drastic manner.”
* * * *
One of Britain’s lighter forms of
summer lunacy, Channel swimming, has
taken on a new lease of life after being
understandably in the discard for some
years. Since Captain Webb first swam
the English Channel in 1875 so many
have done it that it has become almost
a matter of personal achievement rather
than “news.” An original version has
been a team of boy scouts making a
relay job of the trip. Also, for the first
time the North Channel of the Irish
Sea has been successfully tackled by a
33-year-old Englishman with a whale-
like monicker, Tom Blower. He did the
33 miles of rough water in 15 hours
26 minutes. Having also the English
Channel to his credit Tom has something
to blow about.
*** . *
“Colonel Bungstartef” greets an old
champ:
Dapper Billy Tingle, former bantam and
flyweight champion of Australia, is back on
his native heath for a holiday from the East
before going to the Olympic Games as coach
of China’s footballers, boxers and swimmers.
After beating George Mendies in 1922 in four
rounds Tingle went after the world flyweight
championship held by Pancho Villa, and in
Manila won the flyweight and bantam cham-
pionships and drew for the featherweight
title. Settling in Shanghai, he won the
local lightweight championship, gave up
boxing, and was elected to the Shanghai
Municipal Council, afterwards becoming physi-
cal instructor to local schools. Completely free
from any of the facial or mental trademarks
usually associated with a long and arduous
ring career, Billy’s only personally prideful
claim to .sporting distinction is that he rode
Don Robledo to victory in the Far' East at
odds of 3037 to 1.
* * * *
Yarrasider Jackie Wilson (9.5) started
like a sure winner against Les Fuller
(9.9 i) at Leichhardt, and, shooting long
straight lefts to the Fuller phiz, was
in front at the end of the third round.
Then Fuller began paying particular at-
tention to the body and Wilson steadily
weakened. It was nearly a k.o. in the
eleventh round, a right to the chin, then
left to the body, flooring Wilson for
“eight.” Lacking nothing in grit, the
Victorian recovered, to fight back toe-to-
toe through the last round, but Fuller
maintained his lead, and ref. Art Maw-
son awarded him a, for once, popular
decision.
* * * *
Back from a good string of wins in
Adelaide, Ray Dunn (10.7£) didn’t have
to put up much of a show to beat Billy
de Belin (10.5 i) at Melbourne Stadium.
A tame scrap, it went the full distance,
with Dunn always ahead on points.


ē
A.M.P. Insurance cheers
thousands oi families
l-Jife Insurance is a cheerful business.
All over Australia thousands of widows are
rearing their families in comfort because their
husbands were members of the A.M.Pt, and
made the necessary arrangements for their
protection.
Through the A.M.P. any man in good
health can arrange that on his death there
will be the money available to pay his debts and
to provide an income for his widow,
A.M.P. policies are a great reservoir of
cheerfulness.
AMR
SOCIETY
Sl 'C( f
,^' 0N
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, K.8.E., Chairman.
SYDNEY OSMOND, General Manager.
H. B. G. WALKER, Manager, New South Wales Branch.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
<lhc
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
( Incorporated in England)
is the •
traditional policy
of the Union Idanl
to •
yive
personal service to
every customer.
OF
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Dollar Famine
Behind the threat of a dollar famine
lies the fear of a world-wide economic
crisis. True the aid given by America
to other countries has already reached
colossal dimensions ; but it has so far
acted only as a palliative—it has saved its
patients from collapse, but has not cured
them. Europe continues in a state of
acute malnutrition, physically and
economically. It still lacks adequate
supplies of capital equipment, raw
materials and food, and America is the
storehouse from which most of these
requirements are drawn today,
American exports to the world’s six
main trading areas during 1946 were at
the monthly average of $Bl2 millions,
whereas the monthly average of imports
was little more than half that figure; •
Monthly average U.S. trade.
' Exports, Imports,
SOOO,OOO $OOO,OOO.
North America .. .. 212 137
South America .... 96 91
Europe 341 66
Asia 112 76
Africa 41 26
Australia 10 • 15
f
Total 812 411
Only Australia showed a favorable
balance, thanks mainly to sales of
wool. The position has become worse
during the first half of 1947, and South
America is now beginning to feel the
dollar strain more acutely. Basically,
however, the problem of American
foreign trade is the European one.
The problems inherent in this situation
endanger the economy not only of
Europe but of America and the rest of
the world as well. A dollar famine is
threatened because other countries are
not producing and selling to America
enough goods to pay for American goods
shipped to them. In other words,
American exports are siphoning dollars
out of world markets faster than they are
being pumped back by American buying
abroad. Without dollars Europe’s buying
power in world markets would be drasti-
cally curtailed at the moment; and
failure of America to maintain exports
would leave her with surplus equipment,
materials and food far beyond the
capacity of her domestic market to
absorb. Among other things, the results
would be an abrupt contraction in the
volume of international trade, collapse of
prices, widespread unemployment and a
falling standard of living. No country
would escape. The ones to suffer least
would be those which produced most of
what the rest of the world required at
the lowest cost.
Australia, whose costs are rising at an
alarming rate, would first feel the impact
through a fall in both the volume and
price of exports, and the effects would
soon snowball throughout the whole
economy. Australia can best help her-
self, Britain and the rest of the world by
checking her own costs inflation and step-
ping up production, especially of basic
foodstuffs urgently needed by Britain.
Means to these ends are elimination of
senseless industrial stoppages and go-slow.
“Battery must be flat , Steve."
increased productive efficiency (now about
10 p.c. below pre-war level), better co-
operation between labor and manage-
ment, more coal and power, and incen-
tive payments in industry and reduction
in co. taxation.
Apart from the economic and financial
consequences, ugly political developments
might appear, too. Conditions like those
now threatened are precisely those in
which Communist political ideology
flourishes. Recognising all this, President
Truman and his advisers have decided
that the best way to combat the whole
situation is to promote economic stability
and prosperity throughout Europe and
the rest of the world. The Marshall Plan
is the first step in this direction, namely,
pump-priming by further dollar loans.
“It would be neither fitting nor effica-
tious,” said Mr. Marshall, “for this [U.S.]
Government to undertake to draw up
unilaterally a programme designed to
place Europe on its feet economically.
This is the business of Europeans.”
A start has been made to hammer out
a joint programme under the leadership
of Britain and France. Russia and her
satellites have stood apart sniping at the
American gesture for political reasons.
America is not prepared, and rightly so,
to set herself up as a purely philanthropic
institution. Moreover, she is entitled to
expect that the beneficiaries will do all
they can to hasten their own recovery and
lighten the impact of the programme on
the American economy by speedily put-
ting their own houses in order. The
problem is rendered complex by the fact
that the position in relation to balance
of payments, the budget situation, prices,
wages, production, savings, etc., all in-
extricabjy interwoven, differs from
country to country.
It would be unwise to assume that Con-
gressional reaction to the Marshall Plan
will be immediately enthusiastic. The
executive and legislative branches of
government in America are of different
political complexions, a position which
scarcely provides the most desirable back-
ground for quick and decisive action, and
there is a section of the American public
which is strongly anti-British. Also, if
Congress is to swallow the Marshall Plan
it might have to reorient some of its ideas
about taxation. Moreover, there is al-
ways the possibility that the amount of
aid, when granted, might prove too small
to achieve its objective.
As for Britain, at the recent rate of
spending her dollar loan looks like run-
ning out early in 1948, leaving her with
her gold reserves and current transactions
to pay her way. Mr. Dalton recently
said that unless the gap in the balance
of payments—estimated at upwards of
£400,000,000 this year—was 'closed soon
there would have to be grievous cuts in
imports of food and materials. The
British Government’s plan for dealing
with the threatened crisis is to be an-
nounced this week. Retrenchment by
further cuts in the food group WO nld
mean fresh hardships for the people as
Ti/tn m K g th f b ° r force dangerously
near the border-line of malnutrition
with consequent loss of industrial effi-
ciency. The alternative of a cut in raw
materials might defeat its own ends by
its reaction upon exports and the pur-
chasing power of countries from whom
the materials are bought. A tight hold
is already being kept upon importation
of luxury lines. A very substantial relief
would be gained from a down-turn in
commodity price levels. Meanwhile the
British people are faced with the neces-
sity to work harder—and longer.
Middle East oil will flow to Maori-
land when the British Petroleum Co of
N.Z., Ltd., formed by M.L.’s Govern-
ment and the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co., goes
into operation, which might not be until
the latter half of next year. Fifty-one
per cent, of the shares are Government-
owned, which means that over a million
of State capital might have to be put up,
as part of the two millions v needed for in-
stallations, transport and office organisa-
tion before trade begins. Because there’s
little spare room for large fuel installa-
tions at the Dominion’s four main ports,
land will have to be found, perhaps some
distance away, and pipelines laid from
wharves. In Maoriland an eight-inch
pipeline costs up to £2 a foot laid down,
and the cost might be higher if the ground
is hilly. Storage of six million gallons,
to empty a tanker and leave a million or
two in reserve, will be needed at each
port. Looking ahead, precious dollars
will be saved when M.L. can switch a
good part of its demand to the sterling
area, and there’s a promising market for
heavier liquid fuel when locomotives are
converted to oil-burning. Meanwhile
M.L. has a direct interest in the scramble
for new oilfields in the Middle East.
* * * *
Repco, Ltd. (Vic.), will have £240,000
additional funds when its new issue
is fully paid in mid-September. It is a
Considerable advance, previous paid capi-
tal being £300,000. The directors’
explanation is the general need to expand
manufacturing and to “consolidate the
co.’s marketing organisation.” Repco is
a holding co. whose four wholly-owned
subsidiaries make castings and motor
parts, recondition car engines and distri-
bute a wide range of accessories and re-
placement parts. Last term £19,124 was
spent on plant extensions for the whole
group, and at balancing-date (September
30, 1946) bank overdraft stood at £37,020.
In the current term manufacturing work
has suffered from the long metal-trades
hold-up in Victoria, and an interim div.
last May was at rate of 8 p.c. instead of
the 10 p.c. paid for the previous three
years. Nevertheless the shares have con-
tinued to rise on ’Change, latest price
being 495. 6d., equal to 435. ex rights.
The 160,000 new £1 ords. are being issued
at a premium of 10s. each. All but
10,000,, which go to employees, are
offered to present shareholders in the ratio
of one for two.


DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
Built entirely tn Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd,
- -• SYDNEY AND BRISBANE '■■■ ' V.S
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
and pave the way for
a Prosperous Future
Write Now!
BOX 17. P. 0.,
CHATSWOOD, N.S.W.
PLAN FOR HIS,
ETO
EUT
Wise is the father who
plans ahead and makes
provision for his family’s
future welfare by arrang-
ing for a life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Expert advice available I
EQUITABLE PROBATE
6 GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
faoJ/?flfaJ7/-373C > vee/ift, fr/sfiane
WIHGELLO*ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HQUM, COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS,
and
NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to send for particulars of
the magic alphabet
rpv.p Lessons of which are specially compiled
lor HOME STUDY.
PHILIP O’BBYEN HOABE,
M.8.1.M.5c. (London).
Consulting Specialist in Speech & Nervousness.
270 Queen Street, Brisbane, Australia.
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the hona fldes
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation,
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
FOR THE
WORKERS
Is it more
advantageous
to send . . •
WORKERS TO THE TEA .
The break from the bench is always acceptable, but how far
have they to go? Does the going mean waste of time to you—
and, from the workers’ angle, a scamper there and hasty gulping
of tea to get back to their work in the allotted time ? Can all
workpeople leave their work or are they engaged on some job
or machine that simply cannot be left? Are your
workers to come in batches or all together? If the
latter, what accommodation can you provide ? « Will
they sit or stand ? What about boilers ? Will the
crowd overwhelm their capacity?
ĕ
D
D
K
£1
Sjmm.
ja.
or TEA TO THE WORKERS?
Let us assume that for some reason the tea must be taken to
the workers. Is your factory single-storied, or are there lifts
or stairs? What is the nearest or most central and convenient
place for the depot ? Is there any existing building than can be
adapted, or must something new be planned ? Are there gang-
ways leading to all workers ? If not, are there points to which
trolleys can be taken, and at which the workers can assemble?
Or will there be some workers so tied to their work that there
must be a steward-and-tray service from such trolleys?
JT is easy to answer questions such as these. The difficulty lies in coping with the
problems raised by the answers. When factories were converted during the war for
the production of war material, there were often big changes in the interior layout. There
were also many factories where existing tea-services, which had been suitable for peace-
time conditions, were inadequate for the increased personnel and the changed nature of
the work. It was in these circumstances that The Tea Bureau was often called in to advise,
and the wide experience gained should be of great value to managements now considering
the installation or adaptation of a tea-service. The benefit of that experience is offered to
you freely, and without cost. A brochure giving details of the advisory service offered
by The Tea Bureau will be sent free on request.
THE TEA BUREAU
If you have any Tea problems, write or ’phone The Tea Bureau, (Service Dept*),
31 Macquarie Place, Sydney (Tel. 8W6692) and 47 Queen St„Melh , (Tel. C. 1100)
Wool and Tariffs
“G.F.D.”: The heaviest item in the
cost of wool is land, and U.S.A.’s price
preservation really maintains a high value
for its sheepruns at the expense of its wool-
consuming public. Moreover the money
value of sheepland generally is now
higher than when it was bought. A very
small number of landowners seem to
be powerful enough to squeeze the whole
population; everyone who needs a
blanket has to contribute.
In Australia protection may increase
as more labor is worked into an article,
but prices of raw materials are kept down,
not up. Australia reduced import
duties a great deal when the price of
gold was raised in 1931. America should
have done so in 1933, when she raised
the price of the yellow metal. The need
was more urgent in U.S.A. s case because
twice previously she had boosted import
duties —Fordney-McCumber and eight
years later the Smoot-Howley tariff of
1930.
It is not widely known that Australia
gave the world such a lead. No other
country has reduced import duties at all,
whereas we have reduced them 25 p.c.
A 30 p.c. tariff rate is in effect only 24
p.c. ad valorem. This comes about be-
cause the Government instructed the
Customs to take the value for duty in
sterling in order to avoid fluctuations in
the rate of exchange Sydney-on-London.
That old ruling still holds. Even if goods
come in from America, the value for
duty is reckoned in sterling, and the tariff
rate applied to that figure. The result-
ing amount is paid in Australian money
without adding exchange. That is to
say, our actual import duties are still cut
by 25 p.c., a reduction dating from 1931.
The improvement in B.H.P.’s profit for
the year to end May last (£1,245,893, up
£466,601), and lift in the div. from 5 p.c.
to 7 p.c., fitted in with market anticipa-
tions. The price of the f.-p. pound shares,
which had fluctuated between 455. 9d.
and 48s. 6d. over the three months to
end March, shot up to 535. in April, and
then came down in halting steps to 51s.
The drop was mainly the result of the
McGirr Government’s clumsy introduc-
tion of the 40-hour week in N. S. Wales
and trouble with the union about stag-
gering the work roster in order to mini-
mise the effect upon production. The
return at 51s. is 2.9 p.c. on a p.c. div.
basis, with prospects. The £1,245,893
of profit, which is approximately 9 p.c.
on the £13,884,902 of capital, was written
after allowing an extra £1,100,000 for
taxation (£1,475,000) and £33,594 less for
depreciation (£979,374). The improve-
ment in net earnings appears to have
come in almost equal proportions from
the holding (all the 4,700,000 £1 ords.)
in A.I. and S., which paid its first ord.
div, (5 p.c.) since it took over Hoskins’
Lithgow works and transferred them to
Kembla about 18 years ago, and from
increased output at the big Newcastle
works. Here production was severely
curtailed for three months during the
previous term, owing to shortage of coal
following strikes and absenteeism. Last
term production was on a fairly even
keel, though well below both capacity
and demand, until toward the close of
accounts, when trouble with the miners
and ironworkers again retarded output.
Besides a huge unsatisfied demand for its
products, the co. and its associates have
a large development programme, includ-
ing establishment of new industries, ahead
at Kembla.
A start has been made with the million-
pound, two-year expansion programme at
the Osborne (S, Aus.) works of I.C.L
Alkali (Aus.) Pty., a subsidiary of
1.C.1.A.N.Z. These works, which ori-
ginally cost £1,500,000, began to turn out
soda ash, caustic soda, refined bi-
carbonate of soda and calcium chloride
in 1940. They were designed to take
care of Australian demand not only for
immediate war purposes but for many
years to come in the post-war era. The
rapid war-time expansion of industry,
however, ran ahead of anticipations. De-
velopments that would normally take, say,
20 years or more were compressed into
half a dozen. Demand for the co.’s pro-
ducts has increased accordingly and,
since imports failed to fill the gap, it was
decided to lift annual productive capacity
from the present aggregate of 45,000 tons
of alkali products to 100,000 tons. Two
of the basic materials from which the
products are made are salt and limestone.
The salt comes from evaporation of sea-
water in beds covering some 2000 acres
at Dry Creek on the shores of Spencer’s
Gulf, from where it is pumped to the
factory by pipeline. The extent of the
beds is to be increased by 1000 acres or
more, and the annual harvest of salt will
be nearly doubled, making it 200,000
tons. Production *of limestone, which
comes from quarries on a 277-acre hold-
ing at Prentice, near Angaston, is also to
be stepped up to 200,000 tons p.a.
Registered in Victoria at end May, 1928,
1.C.1.A.N.Z. is an offshoot of the big
Imperial Chemical Industries Co., Eng-
land, and 8.H.P., A.C.1., the Barrier
lead-zinc producers. Electrolytic Zinc,
Commonwealth Fertilisers and other
leading Australian industrialists'also hold
parcels of the 5,453,239 £1 ords. Public
interest is confined to a million £l5 p.c.
cum. prefs.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Teka”: A fat and prosperous Maori
waddled into my small back-country post
office and demanded that I fill in the
old-age pension form for his benefit.
“But,” I protested, “you can’t get the
pension. What about all your land and
your dairy cattle and pigs? A man with
plenty of money can’t apply for the pen-
sion.” He said, “Never mind all the
talk, I want my bension. Te other Maori
fellas, they get te bension —kaipai for me,
too,” he pleaded. I shook my head. “No
good,” I told him, with finality. He went
slowly and sorrowfully out, to sit on a
rock near by for nearly an hour, deep
in thought. Then he came bouncing
back, all smiles. “You fill in te paper
now, like I say,” he stated, confidently.
I looked at him and waited. “Yes, t’at
right,” he nodded complacently. “Yester-
day—all my land, my cattle, my pigs—
I give t’em all away to my brother!”
* # * *
“Frank Mauri”: The coconut crab of
some Pacific islands, a fearsome creature
with nippers capable of breaking a man’s
finger, lies, during the day, deep in a
burrow under the palm roots, but at night
he climbs the trunk and nips off the nuts.
Back on the ground he finds his harvest
and gouges a hole in one end from which
to scrape out the meat. The natives
regard the oily crab flesh as a delicacy
and take advantage of his habit of
descending backwards to trick him to
destruction. They tie a piece of turf
high up the palm trunk. The crab ignores
this going up, but coming down he for-
gets it and thinks he is back on firm
ground. He lets go and falls heavily, to
be killed or crippled, the shell being very
thin. Next morning he is collected fpr
the pot.
“Metax”: Any of the Council tried
a bit of grapefruit peel as a moistener
for his smoking material? Have found
even the cheapest and nastiest mixture
becomes pleasantly usable after this
treatment,
* * * *
“Kenden”: Earthquakes in Australia
(B. 2/7/’47)? In ’4l Perth caught the tail
end of one that reached down from
Geraldton. The framework of the new
Perth Hospital was about seven stories
high at the time, and the top members
oscillated in a way that gave us a new
idea of the elasticity of steel. In the
completed building they’ve installed lifts.
Recalling the speed and manner of our
descent, I’ve wondered why.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: The launch was across
the bay, I had neither book nor paper, so
there was nothing for it but to find a
corner out of the wind and settle down
to watch somebody working. The
“niggers” weren’t biting, so the three
blokes on the jetty promised still-life
studies only; then 50yd. out a spurt of
foam shot Bft. in the air, there was a
flurry in the water, and strong wings beat
upwind till the hunter was again airborne
and wheeling to regain altitude. About,
40ft. up he joined three others, and they
worked a patch a couple of hundred
yards across, moving into the breeze until
one spotted quarry. Then there would
be a sudden twist, and, the wings half-
bent and white back gleaming in the
sun, the gannet would hurtle down, clos-
ing the wings at the last instant. They’d
stay under two or three seconds only,
and I couldn’t see how or when they swal-.
lowed their fish. Up north the gannets
—mostly the brown fellow there—had to
be lively to dodge the man-o’-war birds
that poised higher to dive on the
and make him disgorge his catch ; here
there doesn’t seem to be any preying para-
sites to worry him—rather a reversal of
the human position. Counted 36 dives,
but must have missed a few, forthe sun
was low over the water and in my eyes
and the flying saucers pretty thick ; then
a big formation of albatrosses came over,
in echelon right, their engines throbbing
till the jetty shook. They passed on,
growing fainter. Blast that launch;
missed it again! Well, what’s the use of
a Sunday afternoon if a bloke can’t
snooze in the sun?
* * * *
“Flip”: When the bank manager re-
cently broke his toe by closing the safe
on it, Harry Barr smiled his only
witnessed smile for 30 years; in fact,
since the railway was extended to Bom-
bina. In those days Harry was a happy
man. The engineers had told him that
his home would have to be resumed and
gave him an estimate of what he would
get for it. He planned to build the new
house cheap and to use the surplus as
a wad for the next picnic races. Not so
jovial about it was Bill Harrison, then
only assistant manager of the bank, but
with enough of business in his head to
kick about having his home resumed.
“Any ole rags or bones?”
It was a neat brick cottage and just
where he wanted it. With the diplomacy
that goes with his profession, the banker
finally gained an audience with the chief
engineer. The outcome of the session
was that when the railway came it missed
his house by 50 yards ; and to compensate
for the change the planned line had to
be moved away from the original for
about a mile back. Harry Barr acquired
that bloodhound look of his 1 when he
suddenly discovered that his home would
not be resumed, and that the races would
be run without the benefit of his w^d.
* * * *
“Nolly”: We were en route for Bourke
when a stray lamb joined the herd. The
cattle were sheep-shy at first, and the lamb
got many a nasty kick, but by the end
of a week it was ignored. The Paroo
was in flood when we reached it and we
reckoned this was where the lamb would
be frustrated. But when the last bul-
lock had taken to the water the jumbuck
ran bleating along the bank and plunged
into the river after it. The same per-
formance was repeated at the swollen
Cuttaburra. After that the lamb became
the mascot of the outfit.
♦ * * *
“Muggins”: From boyhood onward
I have .heard saddlery referred to as
“pigskin.” Yet never during my long
pilgrimage have I seen a pig skinned,
though I have seen hundreds killed and
have eaten tons of bacon, all of which
had the skin on. Now, will some Abo-
liar enlighten my ignorance, or innocence
—what kind of leather is it from which
saddles are made?
* * * *
“Bad Australian”; As to that
U.S.A. report (B. 16/7/’47) that
roots of alfalfa were found 120 ft.
below * the surface, my experience
suggests that, where the sub-stratum is
gravelly or sandy, alfalfa will persist until
permanent water level is reached. I once
saw roots of alfalfa extending from the
surface to a depth of more than 80ft.
exposed in the face of a washout. The
main roots terminated in a layer of root-
lets several inches thick similar in appear-
ance to coconut fibre, which indicated the
position of the permanent water level
before the washout occurred. .“Zake’s”
suggestion that the American record
might be beaten by some of our rich
river-flat lucerne overlooks the fact that
on any of our river flats permanent water
level would be encountered long before
the 120 ft. level was reached.
* * * *
“Aperist”: Hearts are not the only
organs that retain movement after being
parted from the body. The sting of the
bee lives for an appreciable time after
being torn from the Apis abdomen.
Observed under a magnifying-glass, it
may be seen pulsating in the effort to
thrust its point deeper into the skin of
the victim. Incidentally, when extract-
ing such a sting, don’t grasp the protrud-
ing lobe with the fingernails or with
forceps, for that squeezes the considerable
amount of venom still retained in the
lobe down into the wound, thus increas-
ing both damage and pain. Use the
blade of a knife, or similar edge (in the
,bush a stiff gum-leaf will do), and scrape
the sting out sideways.
* * * *
“Chookie”: Well, I suppose “B.A.K.’s”
foxy deserved to be shot (B. 9/7/’47), if
only for lack of brains. Our foxy used
to do better than thats No Gellert ever
guarded flocks more faithfully, though
at times we were puzzled about clutters
of black feathers found in obscure spots
around the adjacent vacant land —all our
stock were white Leghorn. O’Halloran,
who farmed black Orps. about a mile
away, used to complain bitterly of the
stock he lost; reckoned there must be
foxes around,, though none was ever
heard or seen. Then one morning we
found foxy hiding in his barrel, his hide
well peppered with shot. A couple of
days later O’Halloran, down at the rubby,
got talking about a disturbed midnight
and a quick shot at a white something
that was bolting with a squawking fowl.
Foxy was clever; he travelled a mile to
do his killing.
* * * *
“Lub”: I was surprised at “Gryllus”
(B. 16/7/’47) chipping in with his con-
tradiction of the “eerie, hollow booming”
of the frogmouth. Why he brought the
mopoke in I don’t know, but I’ve heard
more frogmouths in one night than “G.”
could poke a stick at. They were hold-
ing session from the dry trees in the
bends of a wide, still creek and their
hollow booming, though not earsplitting,
was both eerie and maddening. And if
“Gryllus” can read in my par. where
Charlie was attacked by one of these
fowls I’ll gladly send a donation to the
writer of his favorite nature book.
Charlie was set on by the looming shape
— i.e., the blackberry clump—and if “G.”
had ever been embraced and savaged in
a real ’berry patch, he’d know better than
hop out with a set of improbabilities that
weren’t mentioned.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”; With the passing of
the good old four-sided kerosene-tin
country life has lost one of its most-
valued amenities. As bucket, boiler, or
bread-tin it was a mainstay of the kitchen
and laundry. Cut lengthwise down one
corner, rolled back and braced at each
end it furnished the ideal two-compart-
raent wash-up tin. With holes pierced
in its sides and bottom, and hinges and
a catch soldered on to a door cut in
one side, it was a useful fly-proof safe.
Cut to shape along the sides and ends and
fitted with a 3ft. upright handle it pro-
vided as good a back-saving dust-
pan as any housewife could wish for.
Mounted on a clap fireplace and fitted
with a lift-off cover made from another,
it was a serviceable camp-oven. A pair
with their top sides removed and fitted
back into the case in which they had
come made a useful pair of drawers,
capable of being extended to any size or
length by vertical and horizontal braces.
Opened out, hammered flat, and painted
on one or both sides, they have provided
durable and weatherproof roofs and walls
for innumerable sheds and shanties. Any
bush-dweller can tell of a score of other
uses. Peace to their memory!
* * * *
“Nagheer”: The Alice Springs-Darwin
road is fringed with the bones of thou-
sands of kangaroos and wallabies, the
whole 980-odd miles of it, a tragic sight
to any true Australian. Hundreds more
are being killed every week by the big
night-driven trucks, which have accounted
for most of the other victims. They
seek the still sun-warmed bitumen surface
as a comfortable winter sleeping place.
The truck drivers use it at night because
sun-heated bitumen is bad for tyres.
Awakened by the glare of headlights,
poor ’roo hops ahead for a few bounds,
then invariably turns and usually slips
on the smooth surface, rolling to its death
under the swiftly oncoming wheels.
* * * *
“Maluka”: “Horseless Horseman’s”
droving plant of 220 horses (B. 25 /6 / ’47)
stirs me to incredulity. When he adds
a mule-drawn wagonette in which
the boss drives this outsize plant over the
Julia Creek downs —cracked, loose, ashy
and covered with Mitchell grass tussocks
—he is letting his fancy bolt with the bit
in its teeth. All top drovers have large
plants, but none takes on the road more
horses than are necessary to the efficient
handling of the stock in hand, plus a
few spares. For N.T. and Queensland
droving the number of road horses ranges
from 50 to 80. Any larger number needs
too much care and results in inefficient
handling of the stock, a fact which “H.H.”
unconsciously stresses in his own par.
My original statement still holds, that
“N.7Y.’s” 30 bells greatly exceed the
normal requirements of a droving plant.
Unless, of course, “N.7Y.” works to the
theory that a bell to every couple of
cuddies keeps the horses awake all night
and so makes them easier to catch in
the morning, they then being too tired
to run away.
* * * *
“Charles Henry”: My mate and I were
loading sleeper blocks into railway trucks
at a Queensland siding and in rolling one
over we disturbed a fat. Sin. centipede.
It was curled around some 13 round,
gelatinous eggs about an eighth of an
inch in diameter. On being exposed to
the light the creature immediately swal-
lowed the lot, and then crawled under a
handy piece of bark. What I want to
know is this: Will those be ejected
later from the mouth or do the digestive
organs take over?
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Recently at Port
Davey, that magnificent mountain-
surrounded harbor on the southern por-
tion of Tassie’s uninhabited west coast,
a party killed a badger at Bramble Cove
and left the animal on the water’s-edge
of the landlocked harbor. Next morning
the beach around the carcass was alive
with crayfish that had come out of the
sea to feed on it. Captain Kelly, who
discovered the place in 1815 in a whale-
boat, reported the same happening in
the vicinity. When occasionally in sum-
mer months a Hobart fishing-boat after
a load of deep-water trumpeter makes
the arduous trip —the coast is the wildest
and most storm-lashed in the Common-
wealth —flounder are so plentiful they
use them as cray-pot bait. But it won’t
be for long. Don Fraser (in pre-war days
a Wau pilot, and he had a fine war record)
is basing up to 50 fishermen there. With
three privately-owned Catalina flying-
boats he intends to fly fish to Melbourne
daily in seven-ton loads. An experi-
mental trip the other day up the west
coast and across the strait to Williams-
town took three hours 20 minutes.
“Dicky Beach”: My last visit to Port
Davey, 40-odd years ago, was with a rescue
party seeking survivors from a Scottish
barque wrecked on the ironbound coast
outside. Only the cabin boy, keeping
watch beside his dead captain, had been
found by a visiting fishing boat. Traces
of four others of the ship’s company
who had tried to reach the settlements at
Macquarie Harbor revealed grim evi-
dence of cannibalism. Ironically enough,
their tracks passed by numerous wombat
holes with springers, left by a hunting
party only a few weeks previously, ail
ready for resetting.
* * * *
“Philp”: That discussion about find-
ing due south by the Southern Cross (B.
23/7/’47) reminds me of a map-reading
instructor we had in the army. His ex-
planation, delivered like a burst from a
Bren, was: “Theintersectionoftheprojec-
t i o n ofthemajoraxisof theCrosswiththeper-
pendicularbisectorof alinejoini ngthetwo
pointersoverheadduesouth.” It’s quite
simple once you work it out —I’ve never
forgotten it.
THE MUTED VOICE.
A whip, from words in Webster,
He plaited for the backs
Of hypocrites and humbugs
And legislative quacks.
Before that verbal stockwhip
The venal creatures fled,
Until an angry punter
Rose up and shot him dead.
He’d loud and long demanded
An infant nation’s meed
Of nourishments more suited
Unto its growing need:
He vowed the quacks and humbugs
Were giving it hot air,
With newsprint highly flavored,
And bits of bone and hair —■
The hair from Derby winners,
The bones of party strife,
A diet calculated
To terminate its life;
And which, when boiled by boneheads
In billycans of booze,
Will make the strongest infant
Obituary news.
That prophet patriotic
Our future greatly feared;
He knew a growing menace
Had in the North appeared.
And tried to rouse the people
By shouting day and night
“Get busy while the chance is
To make Australia white!’’
The prophet’s words were potent,
He might have won support
Had he not boldly charged them
With deifying Sport.
He said: “No nation ever
Is built upon a game.”
They buried him in quicklime,
And went on just the same.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Zake”: One of the horses had been
missing since the gale two days before
and search by the boss along the roads
had failed to reveal any signs of him.
At tea on the second night the new hand
mentioned casually that the missing moke
wasn’t missing—he was down where the
stack was in the eastern paddock. With-
out waiting to question him further the
boss grabbed a hurricane lamp and set
off with the hand at his heels. When
they got down to the stack the boss found
that it had partly blown over on to the
horse, which was standing and support-
ing the weight of it. “When did y’ first
see him here?” asked the boss testily,
“This mornin’,” replied the new hand.
“Well, why the hell didn’t y’ come and
get help so we could release him?” roared
the boss. The hand looked surprised.
“Gripes, he was in the shade, and there
was plenty o’ feed for him —I thought
he seemed to be enjoyin’ himself!”
* * -< *
“8.A.K.”: If the average Aussie re-
gards Leichhardt as an explorer superior
to Hume, Hovell, Sturt, etc. (“Colonel
Bungstarter,” B. 9/7/’47), he didn’t go to
my school. World War I was raging
when our teacher instructed the class to
write an essay on the Australian explorers,
placing them in their order of merit, with
a few lines devoted to each. Hume and
Hovell won on first preferences—princi-
pally because the squabble over the fry-
ing-pan tickled childish humor. As for the
rest, I heard “Old Johnno” talking it
over with a fellow-ped.: “They men-
tioned Sturt, Mitchell, Blaxland, Lawson,
Wentworth, Burke, Wills, Kennedy—in
fact, every explorer excepting Leichhardt.
By Jove, the anti-German spirit is strong.”
It was. But that wasn’t the only reason
not a kid could spell Leichhardt’s
name!
• • ♦ *
“Shamuseen”: For speed in transmis-
sion and decoding of sign language I
hand the palm to the Torres Strait island
Binghi. Observing through binoculars
the precarious perch on a tossing lugger
taffrail occupied by a seven-year-old
youngster of a white neighbor, I cursed
aloud the departing Binghi crew, to whom
I had entrusted the lad’s safe passage. A
"I'll fill yer billy. Miss!”
store “boy” standing near, observing my
alarm, volunteered “You gib me look
glass, Bawss! And I tell dem dam pool
pfella sumfink bluddiquick! ” Given the
mirror, he sent up a series of quick
flashes. Next he executed a swaying
movement with his two cradled arms,
followed by a vigorous forward and up-
ward gesture with his right. Through the
glasses again I saw the youngster moved
immediately to a position of safety. The
instantly intelligible message, which took
no more than a few seconds in trans-
mission, was simplicity itself. The flash-
ing mirror directed attention to the
sender, the cradled arms and rocking
movement indicated the small boy, and
the vigorous forward motion enjoined his
immediate stowage in for’ard safety.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: Far down the road
something moved in a little cloud of
dust but we couldn’t identify it until we
overtook what proved to be a jockey
of a man humping two great swags, with
their nose-bags, billy-cans and so forth.
“It’s me mate,” said the little man.
“Bruk his arm about six weeks ago an’
bin in the ’orspital at Temora. I bin
knockin’ about the district, waitin’ for
him t’ get well. Got a letter from him
Chewsdee t’ say he’s right an’ headin’
there now.” Mat eyed the load. “Couldn’t
y’ have left his knot at the hospital?”
he asked. The little bloke appeared
startled. “Well, strike me blind,” he
said, “I never thought o’ that! Gripes,
Tom’ll go crook when he hears —but he
needn’t know. He don’t like me t’ be
stoopid. Y’ won’t put a man’s pot on,
will y’, mate?” Gravely we assured
him that his secret was safe and invited
him to share our tea.
* * * ♦
“Minapre”: Agree with most of
“B. A. Ker’s” remarks about budgerigars
(B. 30/7/ ’47), but hasn’t he got off the
line a bit in saying that “long ago we
called them grass parrots”? Grassies
in my mis-spent youth were a very differ-
ent fowl from the shellies —our name for
budgerigars was shell-parrots and
whereas the shellies were one type before
the cross-breeders got among them,
grassies were divided into several varieties.
Two I can recall are Princess of Wales
and Chestnut-shouldered.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: “The 0.D.”
(B. 18/6/’47) is right. My description
of the bugling of black swans as a “honk-
honk” was admittedly inaccurate. But
how do you describe this call? I’ve
listened to it now most nights for a
month, I’ve asked my bush-minded cob-
bers with little result, so I perused those
authorities Neville Cayley and A. J.
Campbell, to find that, though they in-
terpret most bird calls, they both balk at
the swan’s except to refer to “trumpet-
like calls” or its “wild cries.” The
nearest I can get to it is a shrill “hank-
hank” as high-pitched as a Kimberley
abo. would sing it. Incidentally, “The
0.D.” thought I was “confused between
black swans and wild geese.” I had the
impression the black swan was the water
counterpart of a land goose and there-
fore was a goose. However, I’ll bite!
Isn’t it?
* * * *
“Esk D.”: The road past Joe Sudds’s,
clay flat till it strikes the red, loamy
hill, had been churned up by trucks cart-
ing wood in a long spell of wet weather.
Joe got more bad-temptered as his services
were called on for helping get bogged
cars out, and he was ripe for a row when
he spotted the sewing-machine agent
making across the paddock to him, “Not
bogged, surely?” he leered. “Well not
exactly,” the agent said, “but I can’t get
up that greasy hill.” “Didn’t anyone tell
y’ there’s no gettin’ through without
chains?” Joe asked. “Well, yes, I’ve
got chains on,” came the reply. “A new
pair that I haven’t had t’ use before But
I can’t get up with them.” “Let’s have
a look at ’em,” Joe said, resignedly. He
found the green coupe deep in mud;
the agent got in and started the engine,
and the back wheels revolved slowly
without gripping. “Where’s y’r chains?”
Joe asked. The agent pointed to the
front wheels. “Wotinell did y’ put ’em
on there for?” roared Joe. “Well, natur-
“Be patient. She's not due for another five minutes."
ally, I thought that so long as the front
wheels got there the rear ones are bound
t’ follow,” said the agent. Joe was
speechless, but only for a second or two.
Then he pointed to the still-spinning rear
wheels. “Well, y’ can work it out f’r
y’rself,” he said, turning to leave. “But
I reckon if them hind wheels stay there
it’s more’n likely the front ones’ll keep
’em comp’ny.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Pocket-knife had had a
heavy week, having been successively
thrown from a horse, scalded while wash-
ing his shirts, rammed by a charging
Merino buck, roared up by the boss twice
and dunned by a travelling tailor to
whom he owed money for a long-since
worn-out and discarded suit. On Sunday
Little Curl came in to announce he’d
found a bees’ nest and Pocket-knife, a
good bee man, collected tins, axes and
so forth and followed Little Curl into
the bush. An hour later he was back,
one hand and the left side of his face
puffed with stings. He made straight for
the boss, half-asleep on the homestead
verandah. “Gimme me time,” growled
Pocket-knife. “It was bad enough you
an’ ol’ Mickey an’ that tailor pickin’ on
me, but now the ruddy bees have got me
snouted. I’m orf!” It took three of
the boss’s jealously-guarded whiskies to
persuade Pocket-knife that the animus
against him was only temporary.
* * * *
“Bo”: When Bartlett’s store in Bring-
emup caught lire early one afternoon the
14 inhabitants of the township got a
bucket brigade going to the creek at the
bottom of the hill behind the store. For
a time they held their own, but gradually
the fire began to get the upper hand. It
was then Bartlett remembered that the
weatherboard store was a movable one —
it had been brought by tractor a few years
ago from a township 20 miles away—
and suggested that, as they couldn’t bring
the water, to the fire quickly enough,
they might take the fire to the water.
Jim Lewis went for his heavy truck. In
about five minutes, during which time
the fire had gutted all the back of the
house and, despite the relay of buckets,
was quickly eating its way through the
living quarters towards the store itself,
Jim hove in sight riding young Bill’s
grid. He waved to the firefighters.
“Where y’ goin’?” yelled Bartlett. “Over
to Tom Crealey’s along the Ridge,” re-
plied Jim. “Me batt’ry’s flat and I’m
goin’ to borrer his. I ought* to be back
in half an hour with it —that’s if Tom
ain’t out with his truck!”
* * * *
“Kelms)”: Squids (B. 2/7/’47) are
about the tastiest of all fish foods —to
other fish; one theory of the origin of
ambergris is that it is vomit caused by
cuttlefish beaks. Portions of beaks are
always found in the greasy fortune.
♦ * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Evolution, natural
selection and survival of the fittest are
terms that come easily to the tongue.
But think what they mean. The rabbit
that sprang from almost under your feet
merged with the ground so well because,
millions of years ago, Nature demon-
strated the importance to a rabbit of
not being born white in a habitat where
brown predominated. White rabbits fell
to the tooth and the flung stone;
their grey brothers and sisters squatted
unseen in scrub which was being simi-
larly adapted to its surroundings. For
the rain was lessening, and trees and
shrubs were fighting for life, some vainly
Those that lived thrust roots down, fol-
lowing the lowering water-table, flower-
ing and reproducing plantlings which
grew for a few winter months and then
perished because their roots were un-
able to follow the vanishing life stream.
Here and there one survived, little mon-
strosities' which, unaccountably, had at
the moment of germination developed
miniature tap-roots. They grew, de-
veloped and reproduced plants which, re-
verting to type, perished in the dryness.
But an occasional one bred close to its
parent’s abnormality and lived. Gradu-
ally by this slow painful process of
elimination, tap-rooted plants became the
rule amongst that species and in that
climate, while man himself developed.
His path to thought was slow and hard.
He almost perished for lack of it. But
here and there survived a being born
with that restless germ, an abnormality
who mated with his like and produced
beasts and men. The thinking men
lived. They are still living. So are the
grey rabbits and the tap-rooted trees.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; From my camp I often
chuckled at the quaint, high-stepping gait
of the short, thickset chap who appar-
ently walked the couple of miles to
town every day. Six or seven weeks
passed before, with a sickening feeling
of self-reproach, I learned that the poor
fellow was totally blind. But his sense
of direction was uncanny—he even took
the short cut across the paddock. Along
this track, one day, he suddenly stopped
short, detoured several paces, then re-
turned to the worn path. After a lot of
amazed conjecture I decided that he must
have heard the breathing of the cow that
had chosen the middle of the track to
enjoy a siesta. Contriving to time my
trip into town with his passing, I fell
in step, found him an agreeable conver-
sationalist, and plucked up courage
enough to ask whether my guess was cor-
rect. “Partly,” he replied, “but I would
have known anyway. Suppose a car
was pulled up along this road, I wouldn’t
bump into it; I’d know something was
there, although I might not know what.
Most of our people are the same —ex-
cept the ones that are deaf, too. There
is something—well, the nearest I can
describe it is a shadow, but it comes
back, and the more acute your hearing
the stronger you feel it.” A hundred
yards farther on he stopped and pointed
about five paces up the road. “There is
something strange there,” he said. It
was a large sheet of newspaper.
* * * *
“Chuck”: I’d been telling the boss
for years that one-man dogs were little
more than a liability on the place, but
he couldn’t see it. Then Mick joined the
payroll, and brought his own sheep
worker. “One-man dog, is he?” grinned
the old man. “Y’ can’t beat ’em. No
danger of anybody pinchin’ y’r dog or
spoilin’ him on y’.” Three days later,
Mick was seven miles out, inspecting a
mob of jumbucks for fly-strike. While
Ringer held them, he took a final look
through the bunch ; then, whistling weakly
against the wind, he made for his nag.
At chain time. Ringer was missing. The
following afternoon Mick was still puzz-
ling over the the dog’s absence, when the
boss arrived in a lather of sweat. “Y-your
blasted mong,” he bellowed at Mick.
“G-get a nag. He’s seven miles out, hold-
ing a big mob that don’t look like they’ve
et fr 24 hours. I’ve called him, an’
whistled, an’ chased him round the mob,
an’ threw sticks at him. Gripes,” he
spluttered, “that flamin’ pig-headed cow
wants shootin’!”
THE SMOKE OF AN OLD FIRE.
I love the smoke of an old-fire;
No longer flushed with heat
It rambles through the wattle leaves,
Eddies at my feet.
It is like a widening river of mist
Flowing upward, on
Into the waveless sea of the sky,
Feeling toward the sun.
Rising with stealthy warmth from the coals
In the ashes buried it cools
As softly blue as the wraiths of fog
That drift on morning pools.
Sometimes a sinuous tongue of white
Slips out sideways to lick
A trembling fern or fold its length
Wisp-like around a stick;
Sometimes an errant margin puffs
And billows in a whirl
Of wind and subsides on wattle like sunlight
On the golden hair of a girl.
I love the smoke of an old fire;
It travels like old dreams
From an old mind’s dying intensity
In sober, vanishing streams.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID H. ROWBOTHAM.


yT
J
i
i".
DESTROY THESE PESTS
with
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
OnogaS
THE TOP PRICE warranted for
your wool is assured when you're with A.M.L. & F.
because it leads in its standards of valuing, displaying,
lotting and auctioneering; because it has the confidence
of buyers as well as its clients.
Consign YOUR next clip to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
i /♦!/» in tiTnv> ri 1015 9 \
(Inc. in England, 1863 )
4 Bligh Street Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 7.22.17
{IFsT^GHTTS
m
A, •
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
r~
iMs*
■ TT"
JS*
-i-4
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents .
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing Lore.
R- Ney”; Any young man —or old
one »_. f° r . that matter —who is tackling
classing is apt to become confused by
the variety and multitude of advice avail-
able. As far as Merino classing is con-
cerned, the beginner can’t do better than
base his work on a foundation suggested
by John Fegan in his book, Merino Wool.
Fegan points out that “No one can
tell another person how a clip should
be classed without himself seeing the
woolt— it is all a question of relative
values... .It may easily be claimed that
no two pairs of eyes see exactly the same
things when they envisage wool, despite
the fact that they may belong to acknow-
ledged good judges.” So long as a
classer doesn’t depart from the principles
of grading as established by certain basic
factors, he will not do much damage
through innocent errors. Those basic
factors can be what Fegan calls the
sheet-anchor” of the timid or inex-
perienced classer and he offers an outline
of them in this way:—■
“The three major constituents of wool
are density, length and quality (or degree
of fibre fineness). Density is the pre-
dominant component of style, and style
is the most important factor in the deter-
mination of value. Style as applied to
any given line of sheep usually is con-
sistent throughout the flock. The classer’s
job is to determine whether the style is
super, good, good-average, average or
inferior and base his method of classing
accordingly.”
Having got that far the classer will
then have to base his method of classing
on the other two constituents —length
and quality:
tt Length for Noble combs runs from
t good” to “average to good,” thence to
“medium.” In good-style wools showing
density “good” means warp wool, “aver-
age to good” means warp and half-warp,
‘medium” indicates half-warp. Where the
body of staple does not measure up to
warp and half-warp style, the same general
principles apply, but the minimum length
in the medium group should not be below
2|in. Wools of IFn. to 2Fn. are usually
combed on French combs and wools from
Hin. downwards on' other Continental
machines.
Quality of an average Merino clip runs
from 60’s_*to 70’s but varies according to
seasonal influences. Normal and correct
practice is to grade 64’s with 70’s or 64’s
with 60’s, but never 60’s with 70’s. Where
the clip has become finer, the finer grades
should be kept separate from the medium-
quality wools. Classers should always be
on the alert for these seasonal changes,
otherwise grades of 74’s to 80’s may be
spoilt by the inclusion of 64’s-70’s.
So long as he observes these limiting
factors and tries to maintain regularity
within those limits the classer won’t go
far wrong. If conditions make some
divergence necessary, then avoid mixing
extremes in length and/or quality.
Joining Wet Ewes.
“Gambol”: The research officer all
Haddon Rig Merino stud says that ewes
suckling lambs will conceive again within
five weeks of lambing. The evidence was
obtained at an autumn joining when
pastures were good. A ram was joined
to ewes that had lambed at recorded
times in the previous few weeks. Some
had lambed only a few days before join-
ing, but no ewes conceived earlier than
in the fifth week after lambing.
An interesting point was that ewes did
not conceive so soon after lambing unless
they had been running with the ram for
at least eight or nine days. If this latter
point is borne out by further tests it will
be a score for old-timers who always
maintain that the presence of a ram
brings ewes “on,” though scientists be-
lieve that occurrence of heat in ewes is
independent of external influences except
underfeeding.
A Big Paddock.
“Ben Cubbin”: Out in the wheat coun-
try when it came time to tell tall tales,
invariably someone would bring up the
one about the American farm so big that
two tractor drivers started off from oppo-
site ends each morning. They met in the
middle for lunch, then went on and spent
the night, each at the other’s end, having
ploughed one round, and returned next
day. Well, according to the Washing-
ton “Post” it’s not so far stretched. The
paper announces that Tom Campbell, of
Hardin (Mont.), “the nation’s best-known
and greatest individual wheat producer,”
has 25,000 acres under wheat this year,
the other 25,000 acres of his farm
lying fallow for next year. In “the
old days,” Campbell had 75,000
acres and was then, as now, the wheat
king, of the U.S.A. He employs 25
farmhands all' the year round and at
harvest the numbers run into hundreds.
What will interest Australian growers
is Campbell’s method, put like this by
the “Post”;
On some of his land, where the annual
rainfall averages less than 16in., he gets
50 bushels to the acre—three times the
national average. He does it by scientific
farming. He studied his acres, discovered
that the wild plants in that partly-arid land
were widely spaced.
“Nature grew just enough to be supported
by the limited moisture, so we took our
cue from nature.” Instead of sowing the
usual 601 b. of wheat to the acre, he sowed
181 b. and the yields amazed him. During
the “rest” he gives his acres every other
year he keeps down weeds and permits only
those plants that provide natural fertiliser
to grow.
The explanation can only be that the
thinly-sown wheat stools so well that each
plant carries sufficient heads to equal the
yield of more heavily-sown stuff. Whether
Australian dry-country wheats would
stool like that if thinly sown is a matter
for experiment. A point of difference is
that Campbell ploughs 6in. deep—“the
order for dry farming”—which is a lot
deeper than the average on the light soils
in the drier Australian wheat country.
A Handy Layout.
“C.SWhen the
“Victorian Journal
of Agriculture” in-
vited readers to sub-
mit plans of farm
layouts, yards and
so forth, it received
some ideas for yards
that were at once
simple and practical,
among them one
from C. J. Hutch-
ings, of Callawadda,
near Stawell, that
lends itself for adap-
tation by any man
running a few thou-
sand sheep. As shown
in the accompanying
sketch, used by per-
mission of the
“Journal of Agricul-
ture,” the yards are
about 50yds. long by
25yds. broad, con-
taining the shed and
such necessary ad-
juncts as dip, draft-
ing race, branding
race, etc. The shed
is built high enough
above ground to
accommodate sheep
after shearing, and
to permit sheep to
be held undemeam
it in wet weather.
The item is pub-
lished ini full con-
sciousness of the
scarcity of building
materials and labor,
which doesn’t alter
its desirability. Any-
how, since so many
town-dwellers have
to be content with
dreaming about
houses, to erect it
now might cause a
rush of squatters.
Concrete Stock Tanks.
“Atlanta”: On Manfred, near Long-
reach (C.Q.), R. L. Davidson has built
six concrete tanks, ranging in size from
5000 gallons up to 32,000 gallons. The
latter has an internal diameter of 28ft.
4in., and is Bft. in height. Tanks of
reinforced concrete have eliminated the
need for lining leaking iron tanks with
plaster, which has proved unsatisfactory.
For tank construction first dig a circu-
lar trench 2ft. deep and of the required
diameter. In the middle of this trench
space vertical half-inch steel rods 2ft.
apart, pushing them a few feet into the
ground so that they remain upright.
Horizontal reinforcement tied to the up-
rights consists of yin. rods which are
spaced about 6in. apart in a spiral to
about 3in. above ground level. The
trench is then filled with concrete to
mixture used is one cement, sand and
2y gravel. Both sand and gravel are
fairly uniform.
To support the wet concrete on the
inside of the tank wall, fairly rigid formes
made of angle iron and Sin. x lin. hard-
wood faced with 6ft. x 2ft. bin. sheets
of plain iron are used. Outside formes
consist of 24-gauge corrugated galvanised
sheets bolted together. Measure circum-
ference of the inside forme and make
circumference of the outside forme 3ft.
2in, larger for a 6in. wall. After the
inside forme has been placed in position,
more horizontal reinforcements should
be tied on to about 2ft. 6in, above ground
level. Then place the outside forme in
position. A 2in. x lin, board cut into
s|in. lengths and placed between the
formes will keep them in relative posi-
tion. Levelling of the bottom formes be-
fore any concrete is poured in is of para-
mount importance, as any error here will,
be increased when formes are raised for
the next pouring.
In black soil, a concrete bottom in
these tanks is unnecessary as there is no
seepage provided the wall is let 2ft. into
the ground. -Where no bottom is used,
larger tanks are relatively cheaper, as
cost increases with the diameter while
capacity increases with the square of the
diameter.
For a bottomless 20,000-gallon tank
22ft, 6in. in diameter with 6ft. walls 6in.


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—_
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
ę
ě
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
c
%
THE
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, well-made Poley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree, narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
l-|jn. Ring Surcingle, Uin. best quality
bevelled and,numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australia's Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephone; FA 5013.
m
FH
H
m
By NOUBMA HANDFORD
The story of a woman torn be-
tween her loyalties and her love.
The development of the dramatic
incident brings the reader to a
climax that is a classic example
of a writer’s skill.
Sensitive characterisation and vivid
pictures of the Australian country
scene make this an outstanding
novel. O /£.
AT ADD BOOKSEDDERS 8/0
Write for the Shakespeare Head
Free Catalogue.
e
Central House, • Little Regent Street, Sydney .
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
PRODUCTION FOR EXPORT
WE ARE PLEASED TO INFORM OUR *
FRIENDS OVERSEAS OF NEW AND
IMPORTANT PREMISES ACQUIRED TO
FACILITATE PRODUCTION FOR EXPORT.
ALSO OUR POST-WAR MODELS ARE
NOW IN FULL PRODUCTION AND WILL
BE ON OFFER IN ALL PARTS OF THE
WORtD. TILLEY S“ANDARDS ARE MAIN-
TAINED AND INCORPORATED IN COM-
PLETELY MODERN DESIGNS OF LAMPS.
BRENT WORKS,
HENDON, N.W.4
NEW BRENT WORKS,
CRICKLEWOOD, N.W.2.
THE TILLEY LAMP CO. LTD., of ENGLAND
London Offices and Showroom: 33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd., 123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
in thickness, and foundations jjj
ground, the material ,‘ s
three tons of cement, about 12cwt. ol
steel rods (mostly Tin., but |m. can be
used for top section or umversaUy if
more closely spaced), about 360 four
gallon tins of sand and about 360 tins
of gravel or small stones. Three men
should easily do the job, ihcludmg gather-
ing and carting sand and gravel, in 12
da On Manfred', 17 troughs water 12,000
sheep, and more are being built. Cost ot
keeping troughs clean is a disadvantage,
bu? iflheep can be made to water away
from the windward side, less dust will be
collected.
Poison Antidote.
“Plane Creek”: The best antidote for
strychnine poisoning m ammals CB-
9/ 7 / ’47) is a large spoonful ot mustard
mixed with as little warm water as pos-
sible and poured down the victim s throat.
Almost always it will cause vomiting and
the animal will soon recover. Even it
there is no vomiting, the patient will
usually survive. Bone charcoal in a little
water may be used, but if possible should
be followed by an emetic.
A dog that has taken a strychnine bait
wobbles in its movements, arches its
back, shows its teeth, and stands shaking
with its forelegs close together and its
hind legs far apart. Between spasms it
lies in an exhausted state, but the slightest
touch brings on a new spasm. No other
poison that can be taken through the
mouth produces similar symptoms.
Hints for the Farm.
“E.H.S.”: In hilly country where a
wheeled vehicle can’t go the delivery ol
fencing wire on line is usually done by
packhorse. When a packsaddle is not
available an ordinary cait saddle can be
used. Put the saddle and breeching on
the horse and girth up. Place a roil of
wire at the required height at each side
of the animal and pass a trace-chain
through the near-side roll, then over
through the chain channel and through
the offside roll, back through the chan-
nel and hook up at the opposite end.
Hitch the breeching to the wire at each
side and the job is complete.
“M.E.L.”: On Murrumbidgee country
like that around Gundagai, a fine-
stemmed hay comes from sowing 151 b.
of lucerne seed per acre. On inferior
soil from 61b. to 81b. per acre should
ensure very good grazing lucerne. Sheep
camps on hilltops help considerably to
manure and establish small plots, several
methods are used to level the soil over
the freshly-sown seed, but the best ad-
vocated is by using an upside-down
harrow.
“C.A.A.”: Milking machines should
be dismantled, cleaned and lubricated
regularly. When a rotary pump is used
it should be oiled daily and flushed at
intervals of three months with a mixture
of 15 parts of kero, to 25 parts of oil to
ensure smooth working of the spring-
loaded vanes.
“Billjim”: Night-blindness and more
serious things like partial paralysis, still-
born young and reduced production of
eggs (in birds) are usually caused by a de-
ficiency of vitamin A in animal foods
supplied by greenstuffs and yellow
varieties of carrots, maize and sweet
potatoes. In drought fish-liver oil is
useful.
“Sarina”: When looking for new
land for clearing shy off the flat below a
ridge down which runs a stream during
the rainy season. The temporary flow
may have made little impression on the
hillside and the flat below, but it will
soon start cutting down and back when
the flat is cultivated. Such inter-row
cultivated crops as maize or sugar-cane
are particularly unsuited to such erod-
able country, as they do nothing to shield
the ground from running water. All
run-off from the area swells the gully in
time of rain and the loosened soil is
washed away in tons. If such land is put
under the plough in any place likely to
have heavy rain it is necessary to have
it under a close-broadcast legume crop
during the dangerous, season.
“Plane Creek”: For a few years
Beagle hounds have been at work against
the wallaby pest in the Cower Burdekin
cane areas —the wallabies eat growing
cane when the natural grasses are dying
off during the cool, dry months; and
when they are numerous cause consider-
able damage. Beagles are good hunting
dogs, more likely to keep on a trail than
kangaroo dogs. The fine-haired Beagle
weighs around 301 b. when full grown
and the coarse-haired between 351 b. and
401 b.
“Girrawheen”: Production of milk
and butterfat by dairy cows under nor-
mal conditions is maintained at its best
up to the sixth year. The length of time
she will maintain her maximum produc-
tion depends on the care and feeding of
the cow. Well fed, a cow will not show
any falling-off of production until after
10 years of age. Heifers use a portion
of their food for body tissue, therefore
they require a larger portion of nutri-
ments for production of butterfat than
do older cows. ,
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
M'Sthod of pickling olives grown on a farm ?
Care should be taken not to bruise, the olives.
Grade them and place in a solution made up
as follows to remove bitter taste; 2oz. soda
lye, loz. lime, loz. salt, and 1 gallon water.
Boil the water and allow it to cool again before
mixing this solution, and allow it to stand for
an hour before using. The olives must be
kept submerged (to prevent discoloration). When
the bitterness has left the fruit, pour off the
lye and cover them with water, which should
be renewed morning and night. This washing
should be continued so long as the fruit has
the peculiar hot taste due to the presence of
lye. When the caustic taste has completely
left them the olives are ready for pickling.
Some use brine only, at a strength of 2oz.
salt to 1 gallon water. The brine should be
replaced by a salt solution containing 4oz. salt
to 1 gallon water. Two days later the strength
of the solution is again increased to 6oz. salt
to 1 gallon water; then, two days later, Boz.
to the gallon; two days later again, lOoz. to
the gallon; and finally the brine should contain
14oz. salt to the gallon. Some prefer to process
the olives, at a temperature of 180 deg. F. for
25 minutes after adding the Boz. brine, and
they should be made airtight while at that heat.


è
é
ntedJm
RUM
OVERPROOF
FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. EST. 1848 [ml
Q
-
SAVE HEIGHT
YOU
9
USE
AZIZ*,
I “ eBA6S
Finished In woven-striped, water*
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
Is increasing.
Made by FORD SHERI NSTON LTD.
Wholesale only
ê
I.
*
&
WHS
wa/fMU
OUTSIDE—a drizzling cold winter's
night.
INSIDE —a snug and warm home with a
minimum use of fuel.
Home Insulation with 8.1. Slagwool is simple and inexpensive, helps to
keep the cold out and warmth in. You will use 33% less fuel if your home
is insulated with 8.1. Slagwool. Slagwool is a real investment.
CEILINGS ... ,
Slagwool in granulated form over ceilings prevents heat leakage,
eliminates condensation and drip-stained ceilings.
WALLS ...
Slagwool in batts, or loose, is easy to install during construction. In
granulated form may be poured into side walls if house is already built.
SLAGWOOL Is fireproof, reduces sound transmission, keeps homes warm la
winter, cool In summer.
Surveys and estimates made without obligation
Insulation
PTY.
LTD.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM, Shell House,
North Terrace, Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murnay St., Perth.
Agents; BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street. Brisbane. FLOWER. DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin.
Glamorous Interlude
w-
§
m
FROM Aswan to Cairo the age-old course of the Nile penetrates
the very soul of Ancient Egypt. Along its banks stand awe-
inspiring monuments bearing witness to the splendour of a
bygone civilization. Luxor with its stately temples ; the Valley
of the Kings, Tutankhamen’s Tomb, Memphis, Sakkara, Giza
the Pyramids ! And finally, Cairo, that city of delightful contra-
dictions. Here especially does the sophistication of today mingle
with the strange history of the past, for the brilliant season
presents a round of social gaiety including music, dancing, opera
and every attraction for the sportsman.
Egypt offers a glamorous interlude and everywhere a
courteous, friendly welcome —to those on their way to
Europe. Her luxury hotels are world-famous, and there is
no lack of first-class pensions. The climate is delightfully
exhilarating. Travel facilities are up-to-date. Many clubs
admit temporary members.
Special Tourist Visas obtainable in the British Common-
Wealth and Empire . Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
LAND OF ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
Alex tried to comfort him and advised
him to try another man. When he
got home he tackled Maringoni about it,
but he established complete innocence.
“Veracini like trattore. Mista Eenric
no trattore. Veracini no stop farm
Mista Eenric.”
Alex looked into the big, soft, guileless
eyes of Maringoni and remembered that
Machiavelli had been an Italian. He
decided there was nothing he could do
h t - t
THE main job of ploughing land for
the next year’s wheat crop proceeded
at good speed, requiring only occasional
supervision from Alex. In the intervals
he had his men working on his pro-
gramme of repairs and renovations. They
started on the most obvious gates and
fences, then sheds and outhouses.
They tackled the worst cases of soil
erosion, making dams and crossings over
the biggest gutters in the steep hill
paddock. While they were working on it
the C.C truck called with canteen and
mail, and drove out to them. They had
in the truck a prisoner whom they were
taking away from his farm for fighting
with his fellow-prisoner. He was a dark,
hairy Calabrian and Alex’s men were
“Reporting ‘house full,’ sir.”
not very friendly with him, being
Northerners.
That, however, did not worry him. He
got out and had a good look at what
they were doing. He stared up the gutter
and down the gutter, noting how it
divided a good paddock into two parts,
Then he said to Alex, in tones very like
contempt; “In one ’undred anni, finish
terra Australia. In Calabria one farm,
two ten ’undred ann’, no finish terra.”
Alex looked at him with interest,
acknowledging that there was something
in what he said
The Italian struck himself on the chest
and said, with great assurance; “Me
unnerstan terra. Me one farm in Aus-
tralia, no finish terra”
~ , , . . u -
Alex smiled at him, encouraging him
to go on.
“In Calabria, said the man, plenti
farm on montagna. He indicated the
incline of the land much steeper than
Alex’s eroded paddock. Plenti ram,
plenti ram, ma no consumare terra.
“Come?” asked Alex he knew a lot
of Italian key words by now.
The Italian made an irritated gesture
at the language barrier, he looked around,
then pounced on a pile of loose earth,
“Questo mio farm in Calabria,” he
said, drawing a square on one slope,
Then very deftly he constructed a series
of terraces across the incline. The other
Italians had now finished with the can-
teen, and both joined in praising Italian
systems of. farming, though both were
city men.
“Very good Mista Denoom farm, ter-
razza similar Italia,” said Maringoni.
Alex shook his head dubiously. “Too
much money; troppo moneta,” he said,
thinking of his bank manage:,
All three Italians looked puzzled. Alex
tried to explain that it was uneconomic to
spend, say,, 10 pounds per acre in restor-
mg land which was worth only eight
pounds. The Calabrian gave a derisive
. ,
I n fifty anni, finish terra Australia,
No grano, no erbe, no frutto, no vege-
table. . Tutto Australian! dead finish,
He grinned sardonically as if he found
the prospect not at all displeasing,
But Maringoni looked very worried,
He began to talk excitedly to the Cala-
brian, both using a lot of “Que?” and
“Perche?” because they had trouble in
understanding each other’s dialects. The
truck staff soon began to fidget but Alex
persuaded them to wait. Presently Mar-
ingoni turned to Alex with a look of
great decision on his face. He indicated
the Calabrian,
“Rizzio unnerstan fare terrazza ; plenti
esperiensa in Italia,” he said. “Poseebile
Rizzio stop farm Mista Denoom, re-
parare farm Mista Denoom, Prisoner
no plenti money.”
K A R. Stringer waited a long time for a
reply from Alex, then finally went
to see him. He was directed to the hill
paddock by Mrs. Denholm, and was so
astonished at the behavior of his poten-
tial actuarial-survey client that he just
stayed in his car and stared.
Alex sat on a camp stool, sighting
through a theodolite (borrowed from a
surveyor), dressed in collar and tie as
befitted his station and occupation. Mar-
mgom ran hither and thither hammering
wooden pegs into the earth at Alex s
direction Veracim was on the ractor,
and on the seat of the large wheel scoop
he was hauling was Rizzi * blacker tha j;
ever, with a layer of dust all over him,
s hoating directions to Veracini and look-
-ng both important and contented, as
built up the contour banks which
snaked right across the upper half of
t jj e paddock.
Alex saw his visitor out of the corner
Q f his eye, but went on with his work.
xhe blood of the ancient family of Den-
holm began to pulse turbulently through
his veins. Fifty years before there were
any banks or bank managers in Aus-
tralia the Denholms had bought 50,000
acres of virgin land from a tribe of
aborigines for 80 sacks flour, 10 bales
tobacco, four gross steel tomahawks and
one large case assorted trinkets, and had
defied three successive Governors to force
them to repurchase it from the Crown.
And now Alex knew that at any
moment he was going to be interrupted
in his vital work of reclaiming some of
that land, to explain why there were four
men on his farm, all engaged in non-
income-producing labor. He wondered if
it would not be simpler to shoot Mr.
Stringer and bury him under one of
Rizzio’s banks.
He ignored the bank manager for half
an hour, expecting a tap on the shoulder
all the time. But when he finished plot-
ting the next contour, and Maringom was
walking back to him, he turned to face
Mr. Stringer. All he saw, however, was
the dust Mr. 'Stringer’s car had made
when he drove away.


Correct these ailments
. . . . strengthen
WEAK
KIDNEYS
with
.
mih:
ē
Backache, Rheumatism, and pains in the Joints should
be recognised as early symptoms of Kidney Weakness
and no time should be lost in taking a course of Dr.
Sheldon’s GIN PILLS.
GIN PILLS assist the Kidneys in their action . . . help
them to become stronger . . • more active . . . and
free from inflammation. Then with your Kidneys work,
ing normally again, Backache and other Kidney
Ailments are Soon relieved. Give your Kidneys the
assistance they need by taking a course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills NOW.
ĕ
DR. SHELDON'S!
27 pills, 1/9 ; 60 pills, 2/9.
@agj
AW
OX
JCT
K
fj
'0
a
m
m
fl
S&L &Acs fcAsm. C&n,
Tuft <&*c&cA s/uxdctoJ"
Don’t risk offending with afternoon stubble. Shave
once with Gem and you shave clean a professional
skin level shave that keeps you neat all day and
evening . . buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
ė
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
ë
“A woman in love will study her subject.”
— Woman’s paper.
And make him the object of her atten-
tion,
* * * *
“One way to cure a woman’s cold shoulder
is to wrap it in a warm coat.” — Weekly paper.
A fur one is guaranteed to cure the
coldest shoulder.
“Girls blessed with good looks, will always
have their band of admirers.” — Woman’s paper.
A young thing of beauty has a boy
for ever.
“For sale; Sports coat, boy 16, women’s
size.” — Suburban paper.
Will go with any skirt, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lawn mower, 12in. ball-bearing.”
—Suburban paper.
Cannon-balls will do nicely for re-
placements.
"It's all right going, but how will it be coming back ?”
Hot on the Scent.
“In Oakland, California, a prowler who
eluded his pursuers by plunging through a
rosemary hedge was arrested two blocks away.”
— “Time” ( U.S.A .).
A bloke detected lurking round
With doubtful motives will be found
In general to shift his ground
Before the charges you’re alleging;
But, bruising thus a herb whose scent
Is held by bards to represent
Remembrance, he might soon repent
An injudicious bit of hedging.
For though a cop who has to draw
His clues from what you thought you saw
May find the job no bed of roses.
This would be different, one supposes.
In fact, the bloodhounds of the law
Were merely following their noses.
P. M. LUSK.
To a Girl Friend.
Ah, could I call you, sweet, my own!
Were I a king you’d share my throne,
And this my heart, no longer mine,
I’d lay all quivering at your feet;
But now you’re living on our line
Don’t dream I’ll give you up my seat!
BERT.
The Infallibles.
Kings make mistakes, and clerics slip
At times, and millionaires go broke;
A captain sometimes wrecks his ship,
And even optimists may croak.
Some gents, at least, brunettes prefer ;
A doubter, at Death’s nod, will pray;
But let this thought to you occur —
That treble-bookies never pay!
P. O. M. C.
Among the Side-steppers.
“Asked pointblank what percentage of Jews
would be among the 4000 ‘displaced persons’
coming to Australia this year by his arrange-
ment with the International Refugee Organisa-
tion headed by a Mr. Altmeyer, Mr. Calwell
said persons would be selected according to
their economic value to Australia.”
Questioned as to the assistance —purely
technical and advisory—the Government
might feel disposed to offer the wharf-
laborers in their handling of Australia’s
foreign policy, should it be asked for,
Mr. Chifley said the price of barracouta
was one exclusively for the State Govern-
ments concerned. He personally was
quite unaware of any restlessness in the
trade, although he understood the matter
had been referred to in the press. He
would, however, mention it to the
Minister for Barracoota when he came
back from Peru, or Monte Carlo, or
Latvia, or wherever he was.
Asked if, in view of the sharp in-
crease in N.S.W. train, tram and bus
fares and electricity charges, he still was
of the opinion that the introduction of
the 40-hour week would not increase the
cost of living, Mr. McGirr said that so
far as he knew there was no acute short-
age of soap, as had been alleged by
certain sections of the press which were
always anxious to embarrass Labor Gov-
ernments. It was in any case a matter
entirely for the Federal Government.
However, he had had some of his depart-
mental officers inquiring, and they had
confirmed his own view that there was
definitely no shortage. And if there were,
the Premier added, it would be the cumu-
lative result of'the bungling and inepti-
tude of the Liberal (then U.A.P.) Govern-
ment in 1933.
Asked if, as C.-in-C. of all the
nation’s land, sea and air forces, he had
worked out any overall strategic plan
for the use of the available army of 780
men in case of any invasion threat, Vice-
King Billy said he thought night-trotting
was a splendid form of relaxation which
would go far to solve the problem of the
extra leisure time now available to the
worker through the overdue 40-hour
week. The workers, among whom he
was proud to be numbered, should insist
on the immediate introduction of night-
trotting, a truly democratic sport on the
same high plane as Rugby League and
professional boxing. He thought improve-
ment in the breed of trotters was one of
Australia’s most urgent needs. Only the
cares of State with which he was now
sorely burdened prevented his devoting
more time to this important aspect of
the country’s economics.
Asked by an Australian pressman when
he was *in Dublin if he agreed with a
charge from Australia that the present
crippling shortage of copra flowed
from his native policy for the territories
under his control, Mr. Ward refused, on
principle, to mention names or places.
But he said: “Me and Amour have just
been in a country where the workers
have been ground down for centuries
by the capitalistic octopuses. I also
noticed the crook state o’ the cities, as
if the buildings hadn’t had any paint on
for years, due to neglect by the grasping,
cheeseparing landlords. If they had to
fight a war like we did in the Pacific I
could understand the poverty. But their
country is supposed to have bin top dog
in Europe for centuries and look at the
mess they’re in now! It comes o’ the
unbridled use o’ the profit motive,”
Asked if the new aerodrome tax was
part of the Government’s plan to put all
private airline operators out of business,
thus leaving T.-A.A. with a monopoly’
the Minister for Air said the introduction
of television here was a matter for the
P.M.G. As for the shortage of tripe, it
was well known that unscrupulous manu-
facturers were hoarding it in anticipation
of a price rise. This attitude he couldn’t
too strongly condemn. “Tripe for the
People”, had long been the slogan of the
Labor Government, and he personally
would do his best to see this given effect
to.
Questioned as to the reason why the
Dolls’ Eyes Marketing Board, which had
started only three months before with a
typist-secretary and junior clerk to assist
him and now had a staff of 176, despite
a falling off since then in the production
of dolls’ eyes, the chairman of the Board
said he had a great admiration for the
scones obtainable at railway refreshment
rooms. Some people likened their tex-
ture to that of flexible sandstone, but
he personally relished them, particularly
when eaten with mustard pickles and
rhubarb. He also considered that the
better quality in tie-wires, currycombs,
brassieres and concrete tubs was a heart-
ening sign.
Replying to a cable from the R.S.L.
protesting against mass importation of
“displaced persons,” Mr. Calwell sent a
spirited message:
Cannot too strongly condemn use of
chipped cups in restaurants and dummies
for babies stop Will certainly inquire into
both practices when I return stop Meanwhile
endeavoring arrange ample supplies crockery
from Poland and Czechoslovakia stop
Regarding former suggest you contact Hotel
Restaurant Employees’ Union hold stopwork
meetings stop Dummies matter for Health
Minister stop Heartily assure Australian
women my keenest support for above just
causes stop Yoi stop.
Bo.
Division in the Home.
“A divorce petitioner alleged that when she
served steak and onions her husband ate up
all the steak, left her the onions.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph' 1 ’
Now, if her husband bet his shirt
On horses or was wont to rollick
Till dawn with cobbers alcoholic,
And left his better-half to languish.
You’d Say she had some cause for anguish.
But when he made her go without
The steak, which his keen appetite
Demanded as a husband’s right,
The lady, so it seems to me.
Had nothing left to beef about.
D. H. E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The J.P.
Would you like to be a J.P.? If you
are known to be a convicted criminal
you haven’t much chance; otherwise it’s
yours for the asking if you vote the ticket.
Since the first Js.P. were commissioned
by Edward 111, over six centuries ago,
they have been the backbone of the gov-
ernment of British countries. With the
paid magistrates, who did not come on
the scene until the 1830’s, Justices dis-
pose of nearly all criminal cases them-
selves and take the preliminary hearing
of the balance. Parliament has steadily
increased their powers and their field.
And from the first commission to the
present day their first and main duty
has been to conserve the King’s Peace.
In ordinary times they do so from the
Bench, but in times of riot and disturb-
ance they must do so at the source, in
the open air.
If a basher gang is getting the best
of a lone policeman it is the duty of the
nearest Justice to take command, call
on all lawful citizens for assistance and
put the bashers where they belong. It
is the duty of every citizen to wade in
and give a hand, for that matter, but the
J.P. especially is supposed to come for-
ward and take charge. And the law—if
it is administered—will punish a failure
to do so. But don’t worry about that —
Governments nowadays don’t like citi-
zens governing themselves, and it is a
long time since bystanders were crimed
for watching somebody being kicked to
pieces.
Something of the trust and responsi-
bility of this honorable and important
office remains in the swearing-in cere-
mony, performed (generally) by a Judge
of Quarter Sessions, who stands and ad-
ministers the oath of loyalty and'the oath
of office, the citizen swearing, in the
grand and simple English of a former
time, that he “will do right by all men,
without fear or favor, affection or ill-
will.”
One would expect that appointments
would be hand-picked and that
fellow-townsmen would be told be-
forehand of them. After all, an
applicant for, say, a spirit mer-
chant’s licence must first advertise his
intentions. So must an applicant for ad-
mission as' a solicitor, and he must run
the gauntlet of a thorough inquiry into
his qualifications and character.
To be a J.P., though, all you need do
is to get your member to nomin-
ate you to the Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment. Your name will be referred to
the police, and if you are not “known”
to them you’ll be right. You might
be bigoted, brainless or the biggest mis-
chief-maker in town, or all three, but
that’s all right—nobody will know you
are in the running until you are sworn in.
Once sworn in, so long as you are not
in a Stipendiary District, you can take
your place on the Bench whenever it
sits, and the feelings of a man who finds
his reputation and liberty in the hands
of a flapper or a couple of s.-p, types are
no business of yours—or of the Govern-
ment’s.
The Government is not to be blamed
too hardly, of course. Most of its mem-
bers have never lived in a country town
and probably don’t even know that
Js.P. still sit on the Bench—paid magis-
trates do all that in the cities. A J.P.
is just someone who witnesses one of
their forms, and obviously you could
not have too many of them these days.
And, in any case. Socialism can’t stand
the thought of local government.—
Khasi Rokok (N.S.W.).
Can Australia Make It?
“Lord Luvus” (B. 16/7/’47) wonders
how the old-time craftsmen produced
their artistic furniture. I’m old enough
to answer for some of those who used
the same methods as the armoire makers
of the Middle Ages.
We worked, not in factories, but in the
“spare” rooms of cottages. We served
long apprenticeships at early ages and
stuck to the same trade through life.
Practice made us expert, if not perfect,
in repeating endlessly the same patterns
and operations, but investing them never-
theless with that personal touch which
distinguishes handwriting from type-
script. We were responsible for
every step in the process from the
choice of timber to the last rub of the
patina. Careless work meant loss of
custom. To go slow was to go hungry.
Our wants were few, our entertainments
simple and usually home-made. Holi-
days, sickness and accidents were charged
to our own account. Old-age pensions
had not been invented. The aged were
supported by their families.
Artistic armoires, etc., were cheap and
plentiful because wages, overhead and
amenities were low. They were artistic
and everlasting because they were built
with pride by free men of “independent
mind.” Australia could make them under
the same conditions, but under the present
regime it cannot even supply the
demand for bricks and corrugated-iron.
—Worker (S.A.).
Free Medicine
“Jock” (B. 25/6/’47) should not ac-
cept so readily all the propaganda
against “free” medicine. If he asks in-
dividual doctors what they think about
it he will find, particularly among young
medicos from the services, much sup-
port for the scheme. Most of the ad-
verse criticism comes' from older doc-
tors in well-established practices and
specialists in the big money. Despite
what “J.” says, the B.M.A. is fighting
the Pharmaceutical Benefits scheme, not
so much for itself, but because it sees
in it the thin end of the nationalisation
wedge. If doctors were really antagonis-
“Sorry, I can't come tonight, George — I’ve got a
date.”
"Then how about Thursday night?”
tic to the principles of the scheme why
do they rush lodge work (at a recently-
increased figure) and why do they give
such consideration to lodge panels when
assessing the selling value of a practice?
Hasn’t “J.” drawn the wrong conclu-
sions from his facts? Take, for instance,
the hypochondriac who wastes so much
of the doctor’s time and who is finally
ushered out of the surgery with a bottle
of free medicine or, rather, the prescrip-
tion for it. Why doesn’t the doctor tell
this patient the truth —that the medicine
cannot help him? It is because the
patient is a source of revenue and must
not be offended. Cut out the profit
motive from medical practice and the
doctor will tell the patient the truth and
devote more time to those who really
need his care.
Those who should know —doctors and
chemists who have actually seen and
studied the Commonwealth Pharmaceuti-
cal Formulary—are practically unani-
mous that it is excellent and most com-
prehensive in its coverage. Almost every
doctor relies on a formulary of some
kind, usually that of the hospital in
which he trained and one which isn’t
nearly so modern or nearly as compre-
hensive as the new Commonwealth
formulary.
There are only two more ingredients
necessary to make the free-medicine
scheme a great success, and unfortu-
nately they are in short supply just now.
They are honesty of purpose and sincere
co-operation.—A. M. C. (W.A.).
Money
The history of economics repeats it-
self like an Edison record. In 1717 a
Scot named John Law offered to liquidate
the French national debt of 200 millions
sterling if he were granted a few Govern-
ment monopolies and permitted to print
notes to the value of 10 times the amount
of the debt.
His plan seemed foolproof and he was
told to go ahead. At first the scheme
worked like a miracle, but soon it be-
came evident that instead of wealth
being multiplied by 10 the value of com-
modifies was being reduced to a tenth
of their original worth. In spite of
national backing and clever financial
juggling the bubble burst in 1720, bring-
ing thousands of rich men to beggary,
reducing millions of poor people to star-
vation, and almost doubling the national
debt.
Since then other nations have tried the
same trick with a flood of counterfeit
money. Some immersed themselves
gradually, others dived in boldly. They
all committed financial suicide.
In spite of these repeated tragedies the
John Laws of today are still at the old
game of grabbing monopolies and print-
ing valueless paper. In addition they are
limiting the production of commodities,
thereby hastening the process. Already
we have “rich” men who cannot buy
bricks and “prosperous” workers com-
pelled to live in hovels. Wages are rising
while comforts are disappearing. History
is repeating the story of the French easy-
money idiocy with only the place-names
changed.— Aussie (S.A.).
Science and Religion
Herbert Mulvihill’s dictum (B.
16/7/’47) that “a law that applies to a
part of the cosmos applies to the whole”
is an example of “the fallacy of com-
position.” Thus the companion star of
Sirius is computed to have a density of
27,000 —about a ton to the cubic inch.
The behavior of matter in this star and
in those circum-
stances is unascertain-
able from laws
formulated from
what occurs under
mundane conditions.
Further, when the
evolutionary theory
was first applied to
the heavens, our
private universe was
supposed to have
built its way up
from a primordial
nebula. This theory
has long been out,
and the one *4hat
now finds favor
postulates that the
planets of our
system were formed
under the attraction
of another star upon
the sun. Matter \tas
pulled out of the sun
by tide effects, and
hurled to different
distances. This is
merely the new
theory. What is not
so theoretical, how-
ever, is the concep-
tion {e.g., by Jeans
and Eddington) of
an expanding uni-
verse which came
from a centralised creation in Time-
Space.
The finite thermo-dynamic machine
which is our cosmos (not chaos, as “H.V.”
would make it seem) is a construction
whose potential is decreasing. It is a
watch that is continually running down.
As its entropy increases, so does all
possibility of change decrease, so that the
day will come when the sun will be un-
able to yield sufficient heat and light to
maintain life as we know it on our globe.
“H.V.” is free to call these processes
(the cosmic and the latest theory about
our planetary system) evolution, but it
was not the evolution envisaged by the
nineteenth century. A far better name
for it is “devolution.”
Again, despite “H.V.,” the moon has
a very definite use for this earth. By
causing tides, the moon acts as chief
agent in scouring out rivers and, in
general, gives us
The moving waters at their priest-like task
Of pure ablution round Earth’s human shores.
“H.V.’s” attitude to the moon in
particular and to the universe in general
is too utilitarian.
Significantly, astronomers mostly have
been and are deeply religious men. Some
of the world’s best are Jesuits, who, by the
way, conduct at Riverview (N.S.W.) one
of the best observatories in the Southern
Hemisphere. The trouble with “H.V.”
and others is they cannot bear to hear
so many scientists ( e.g Dr. F. Sherwood
Taylor, of Oxford, Professor E. T. Whit-
taker, of Edinburgh, Millikan, Jeans,
Eddington, Whitehead) speaking out so
well on behalf of religion. They evidence
only too clearly the fact that there is
no quarrel between Religion and Science.
—Credo (Q.).
Letter from Batavia
As an Australian living in the
N.E.I. my position is an invidious
one. It is galling enough when living in
Australia to see and hear the colossal
blunders of the present regime, but now,
living abroad, it has become incumbent
upon one to defend it —and one has no
possible defence.
Since September, 1945, Australia has
prevented any loading of ships for the
N.E.1., and in so doing has aroused the
anger and the contempt of the Dutch.
How useless it is to explain that the
“ideals” of the Waterside Workers’
Federation are not those of the average
Australian or that the present Australian
“Government” is so pitiably apathetic
and narrow-sighted as to allow a small
body of Communist-led laborers to dic-
tate its foreign policy and trade relations
with the country’s nearest neighbor, and
its best potential market in all the Asian
lands.
After the publication of the July 10
issue of the daily paper at Batavia my
position as an Australian becomes not
only invidious but also ridiculous. A
translation of a leading article reads:
Australian Government Offers Her “Good
Services.”
According to advice from Canberra Dr.
Herbert Evatt, Australian Minister of Foreign
Affairs, has “offered the good services of his
Government in the negotiations between the
Dutch and the Indonesians.
“The Australian Government,” the Minister
declared, “wishes both parties to understand
that when in the interest of an agreement be-
tween the Dutch and Indonesian authorities
concerning economical and political matters the
good services of the Australian Government
should be of importance, Australia shall con-
tinue to do all in her power to assist both
parties.
“Besides, the Australian Government shall be
willingly prepared to lend advice and assistance
to the Indonesian Interim Government in
matters pertaining to trade, communications
and economical reconstruction and develop-
ment.”
All of which caused amusement, tinged
with bitterness, on the part of the Dutch.
They especially appreciated the assur-
ance that the Australian Government
would continue to do all in its power to
assist.
May I suggest to the Australian Gov-
ernment that, having irrevocably en-
gendered the contempt of not only the
Dutch but also the British and American
residents of this country over the shipping
ban, to which is now added, via the
medium of Dr. Evatt, a generous helping
of ridicule, it approach this area, either
by words or action, with circumspection,
tact and the realisation that knowledge
and understanding of the problems here
are nil. — Sub Day (N.E.1.).
White Australia?
Approximately 1,000,000,000 people
live in Asia, on the sunny side of a line
from Karachi to Tokyo, and if medical
science operates as well as it did before
the war that population will be doubled
by the end of the century. The popula-
tion of Java has just about done that in
50 years, and the Javanese are now
stacked about 800 to the square mile.
Throughout the area maternal mortality
rate is being reduced, retaining more
women to continue childbearing. The
same success is noticed in the infant
mortality rate, so that more females will
reach maturity with a better chance to
produce more babies than mum did,
and with less risk.
Australia’s population has been
doubled in the last half-century, thanks
to the numbers of immigrants who
arrived here before 1914. South-East
Asia has done as well, while supplying
laborers by the thousand for other parts
of the world. We pin our faith to immi-
gration to counterbalance the extensive
practice of birth-control. Brown brother
does not interfere with Nature and hopes
to emigrate. He may soon be asking
pointed questions of a country wanting
immigrants. These people have been
presented as unaggressive, but is there
any certainty that they will remain so?
Independence, especially if there is
any strong liaison with Moscow, may
work strange changes as the overcrowd-
ing becomes more severe. We heard
little about Japan before Commo-
dore Perry’s action in 1853, but the Japs
have been a big enough nuisance since.
Where is all the surplus to go?
Borneo is lightly populated, but could
not accommodate the millions who must
emigrate or starve. Manchuria and
Northern Australia are sparsely-popu-
lated areas just over the fence, Russia
has the strength to kick out intruders.
Are we showing sufficient interest in
tropical Australia to have the White Aus-
tralia policy approved by such Western
Powers as have forces to make the
approval stick?
If the Labor party can commence a
scheme that will bring in a couple of mil-
lion migrants in the next ten years, and
keep most of them from settling in the
south-east corner of Australia, its mis-
deeds may be forgiven. Equally import-
ant, and definitely a job for Labor, is
the persuasion of individual workers to
increase their productivity. For any
migration scheme to have a chance of
success the materials, at least, must be
available for the migrant to build his
own home.
Placed, as Australia is, on the
boundary of this overcrowded area, her
small families and short working week
are a fine way of committing national
suicide. — Noonamah (N.S.W.),


Adelaide’s Airfield,
If H. Bowden Fletcher (B. 9/7/’47)
lived in S.A. he would have another
reason for pointing the bone at Civil
Aviation. I refer to the continued lack
of improvements at Parafield, the city
airport, 12 miles from Adelaide G.P.O.
Beneath a photo, of a bogged Dakota
which nine men are attempting to free,
Adelaide “Advertiser” comments:
The effect of wet weather on the un-
treated surface of Parafield aerodrome has
forced big four-engined Skymasters to use
Gawler airstrip for several days. Even a
lighter two-engined airliner encountered
difficulty at Parafield.
Further. comment seems unnecessary,
except to mention that Gawler (used
occasionally by the Americans when their
Libs, had to bypass Parafield in wet
weather) is 25 miles from the city.
Adelaide people have been treated to a
spate of “official statements” describing
the amenities of the “proposed” West
Beach airport, about five miles from the
city. The site, we are told, has been sur-
veyed. Certainly many people have had
their building blocks in that district
“acquired” for something like half the
price obtainable on the open market.
Of the airport nothing has materialised
after 12 months’ propaganda. Nor,
apparently, has anything been done to
improve the existing “facilities,” which
not only hold up commercial schedules
each winter but imperil crews and pas-
sengers. Aircraft have been known to
skid for yards on the black mud of the
Adelaide plains.
S.A, is not looking for new airlines, as
Queensland may be. On the contrary,
T.-A.A. is vigorously opposed here on
the score of its new project of wellnigh
duplicating Guinea Airways’ Adelaide-
Darwin route. Be that as it may, with
intra-State schedules constantly increas-
ing, the number of aircraft using Parafield
is more likely to increase than slacken off.
The only solution for this is multi-direc-
tional runways, sufficiently long and dur-
able to take any type of plane considered
likely to use the field. —G. K. B. (S.A.).
R.A.A.F. Pay
Since the publication of “Wusslean’s”
letter (B. 25/6/’47) the R.A.A.F. also
has ceased to recognise the family man.
The new scale of pay, which came into
operation from July 1, makes no provi-
sion for children. Family allowances
have disappeared, and even the wife’s
allowance has been cut. Living-out
allowance rates at 3s. a day, but is taken
back in rent.
Any “personnel” having the temerity to
requisition one of the condemned and
broken-down tin sheds on some of the
abandoned sites and make it habitable
leaves himself open for rent —10 p.c. of
the daily rate of pay. The new scale of
pay goes nowhere toward making up
this deficiency, as taxation is on the
civilian rate. The average family man in
the R.A.A.F. today is no better off than
his counterpart in Civvy-street.— Still
Serving (Darwin),
Attention, Mr. Chambers!
If Mr. Chambers is reauy seeking re-
cruits for his new army he should buy
a copy of Dale Carnegie’s How to Win
Friends and Influence People,
A young friend of mine has just shown
me his pay book. This lad is still offi-
cially in the army although, totally in-
capacitated, he was medically evacuated
from the Occupation Forces in Japan. He
has spent six months in a Repat. hospital
and has been receiving army pay all
that time.
Until his last pay, he was getting 9s.
6d. a day as a T.G.I mechanic, plus 2s.
a day deferred pay; 11s. 6d. Though
deferred pay has now ceased, he gets
a rise of 2s. 6d. in his daily pay, bring-
ing it to 12s. But Mr. Chifley now takes
out of that a daily tax of Is. 2d., so the
lad is now receiving 10s. lOd. instead of
the 11s. 6d. he got before his rise!
And if he were discharged from the
army, he would now be entitled to
draw a tax-free Special Pension of £5
Is. for his particular disability.—Repat-
riate (Q.).
Road and Rail
I agree that railways must function
(B. 25/6/’47). They have their uses,
obviously, and they are by now such a
vast public vested interest that they
couldn’t be altogether scrapped without
a major economic upheaval. Without
being altogether fanatical, however, 1
believe most firmly in proper use being
made of road transport, which, with air
transport, is here to stay whether people
such as “L. 1.8.” like it or not. But I am
bordering on the fanatical in the belief
that a truck-owner should be allowed to
carry his own goods over roads which
he paid for, and pays for all the time.
If there is anything which makes small
bubbles of blood-flecked foam appear on
my lips, it is the sight of a stretch of
road which I helped to construct, and on
which I am not allowed to transport my
own goods in my own truck, for which
I pay a thumping licence.
But in his closing remarks “L.LB”
surely invites comment from more than
a mere road-transport fan. “Our con-
tracting economy”! We are slowly
perishing, he implies, and haven’t room
for more than one system of transport!
I leave him with the belt for this stagger-
ing piece of long-range economic plan-.
ning.-r-R. H. G. (W.A.).
The Worker
Here in Brisbane we hear much of
“the rights of the worker.” Letters to
the press and idle gossip at street corners
continually refer to workers’ trams and
trains and workers’ beer and tobacco.
What is a worker?
I know a managing director of a big
firm. The idea of referring to him as a
worker would cause laughter. Yet he
works more than twice as hard as any
I’ve seen lolling at street comers uphold-
ing the rights of workers. He is on the
job all the time, and after he shuts his
office he takes his work home with him.
I know a lawyer who does the same thing.
Admitted they’re both comparatively
wealthy men, but they work in a manner
that would brand them as “scabs” in any
labor union. I know a few doctors.
They’re not workers; they’re slaves.
That just touches the fringe of the so-
called non-workers for whom no special
provision is made. They’re not given
workers’ trams in this country, nor special
“Don't know how Mrs. Firefly puts up with him, coming home lit
up every night!”
niches in the hereafter. But I’d stake
what’s left of my soul they work harder,
longer and to better effect than any
down-trodden slave of labor. — Plug (Q.).
We hear a good deal about the needs
of the working man. Who is he? The
man who, employed by the Government,
has a safe job for life with light work-
ing hours outside which there are no
responsibilities'or worries? Is he an in-
dustrial employee on a 40-hour week,
well rewarded for specialist service, pro-
tected from accident, compensated if it
does occur, and well cared for by union
officials? '
Is he the clerk sitting in palatial bank
offices and similar institutions, virtually
with all the comforts of city
life, spending the required hours at his
job because he must earn some money
somehow?
Or is he the stout-hearted chap, some-
times called the boss, who has the guts to
run his own business, whether it be in
town or country, who wins or loses simply
by his own ability to serve the com-
munity, who provides employment for
the rest of his fellows, who works the
number of hours required to complete
the job, who loses a large slice of his
hard-earned income in taxation to pro-
vide amenities for the crowd, who works
because he is a real worker and likes it?
Labor is a good name for an institu-
tion which looks after the interests of
the working man, but “working man” is
a misnomer for the cove who is always
fighting to do the least work for the
most reward. — Bluebell (N.S.W.).
Films
“Hist” (B. 25/6/’47) does not exag-
gerate the influence of American pro-
ductions on our ’teen-agers. Where I
work there are about a hundred boys
and girls, nearly all movie-mad. The
girls copy the hairdo of their favorite
“star,” raise their plucked eyebrows in
imitation of their ideal, converse in wise-
cracks and croon “hot” numbers. It is
easy to see by their dress and gestures
that they identify themselves with the
brilliant blonde or sultry brunette of
their choice. They flatly refused to cover
their “crowning glory” with safety caps
until one of their number was scalped by
a machine belt.
The boys are just as much under the
influence of masculine stars. They affect
“side - burns,” repeat sure - fire gags,
flourish spanners like six-shooters, speak
with a nasal drawl and act “tough” to
the girls. They talk of little else than
the shows they have just seen or are
going to see.
These “fans” are representative of
their generation, and there can be no
possible doubt that their minds are filled
with synthetic glamor and romance to
the exclusion of the realities and respon-
sibilities of life. It is frightening to
know that the future of our nation will
be moulded by voters whose only “cul-
tural pursuit” is the study of moronic
puppet shows. — Stupendous (S.A.).
Shipping Problems
Where has the Commonwealth’s ship-
ping policy been leading us? What has
been the cost, and what will be the effect
when requisitioned Australian shipping
is handed back to its owners? These are
important questions.
The Government never seems to con-
sider any aspect but that of appeasing
the unionists. Seamen are still getting
war-risk bonuses and waterside workers
are drawing appearance money. The
Stevedoring Industry Commission, a war-
time expedient, is now a permanent peace-
time imposition. An Australian ship now
spends about two-thirds of its time in
port as against one-third pre-war.
The Government apparently intends to
insist upon new ships for the Australian
inter-State trade being built in Aus-
tralia, yet shipowners opine that two
ships only can be built here for the pre-
war cost of five. One thing is certain —
freight-rates must be substantially in-
creased or subsidies paid, and in either
case the public will pay in increased
prices.
The time has surely arrived for an in-
vestigation into these matters. The Gov-
ernment’s way of dealing with industrial
disputes and its admission of helplessness,
together with the absence of-effective
leadership, will make our shipping prob-
lems immensely more difficult to solve.
For an island continent their solution is
a vital factor in our economic structure. —
Nautic (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
When advertising for staff, it is the
practice of many firms to ask applicants
to “state salary required.” Advertisers
know exactly what is required of the
prospective employees, so why don’t they
state what they are prepared to pay?
Are we to infer that if two men of
similar qualifications offer themselves, the
job will go to the man who sells his
services for less? —T. J. L. (Vic.).
I’d like “W.P.T.” (B. 18/6/’47) to come
up here (Callide Valley) to see if any
dairyfarmers have, by 8 a.m., finished
mustering cows, separating, feeding calves
and pigs, cleaning dairy and pig pens,
carting cream to the road for pick-up
and turning cows into grazing paddocks.
Admittedly machinery has eased the lot
of the dairyfarmer, but things haven’t
reached the “push-button” stage yet. And
I’d like to know how one could manage
“sleeping between milking” and still
attend to dipping cows, fencing, build-
ing and machinery repairs, ploughing,
cultivating, clearing new land and har-
vesting and storing fodder. —F. M. S. (Q,).
Compulsory unionism sticks in the
gullets of many Queensland workers.
Power has been taken by union bosses to
expel members for alleged misdemeanors
which have no standing in English
Common Law. By holding a worker ex-
pelled, the union bosses, under existing
regulations, can automatically hold him
unemployed with all the usual hardships.
—P. E. S. (Q.).
A friend of mine has spent 15
years perfecting an invention which
should assist to alleviate the housing
shortage. To handle his scheme a large
company is necessary, but should he be
given, say, 25,000 shares for his patents
and formula he would be called on by
the taxation people to pay them £12,000
in hard cash. As he is unable to do
this the company cannot be formed and
his advisers have been unable to find any
method of avoiding the iniquitous, im-
position. The fact that the inventor spent
15 years perfecting the idea apparently
dices not count fo,r anything with the
taxation people, and the shares issued in
payment are regarded as income for the
particular year in which they are issued.
—Simple Simon (N.S.W.).
In that R.S.L. business it was not a case
of one man one vote, but one sub-branch
one vote. The League gave a branch of
100 members exactly the same voice as
one of 1000 or even 2000 members. So
a couple of No votes in a small branch
could negative the verdict of thousands of
Ayes in a big one. — Recco (N.S.W.).
The publicity experts of the Common-
wealth Bank should look to some of their
poster advertising. One, exhibited on
many railway stations, urges people to
save for sickness, education and old age.
But just have a bit too much in the bank
and see how you get on when applying
for the old-age pension. —C.G. I.
(N.S.W.).
Whenever there is “industrial trouble,”
newspapers publish every inflammatory
statement made by any cheer-chasing
agitator concerned. That is the surest way
to gratify the vanity of the spouter, to
encourage defiance of the law and to
widen and prolong the dispute. If these
provocative explosions were ignored by
the daily press they would have no cur-
rency outside a few sycophantic admirers
of the demagogue. Full publicity should
be given only after the trouble has been
settled.—Y. J. (S.A.).
It is difficult to know why the census
could not have been taken by post instead
of by a costly army of collectors. Five
years ago we had a second National
Register. What has become of that in-
formation? This modern habit of quizz-
ing the people every few years is Gil-
bertian. For instance, in the census the
Government is seeking information on
housing, but it will take five years before
the information is tabulated. By that
time many Diggers will need, not a house,
but a shroud.—A. D. (S.A.).
We shall or should trade exten-
sively with our neighbors, and it will be
to our great advantage if we teach our
children all we can about the countries
and islands that surround us. Dutch
would be of more value to Australian
children than French; Japanese and
Chinese would be more useful to them
than Latin or German. And if they are
taught that the Pacific Islands are noted
not only for grass skirts and coconuts,
but for many other things of great value
to Australia, the future adults of this
country will be much better fitted to
carry on its government. —W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
New Guinea was a fairly large pro-
ducer of copra. Largely because of the
present Government’s monkeying around
with the native labor system, the present
output is a feeble trickle of 4405 tons a
year against 80,000 tons before the war.
Copra yields 65 per cent, coconut oil, and
it is a better oil than that obtained from
whales; yet the Government is wrecking
the economy of an Australian territory
that produces it. — Coconut Cocky
(N.S.W.).
From a radio announcer I learned that
a new industry is projected by the C.S.R.;
from a newspaper, same day, that
Miss So-and-so, A.F.1.A., who is also
a member of the R.A.0.U., has been
appointed first woman president of the
F.N.C.V. Once, a few letters meant
merely an individual degree of achieve-
ment, bestowed rank or some very com-
mon and well-known abbreviation. Now,
one grapples with honors, institutions,
diseases, unions, boards, places, organisa-
tions, explosives, patent medicines, trad-
ing companies and, in fact, practically
anything that can be reduced to initials.
—Chuck (Vic.).


è
A
P'.-
<>;
'b-^rft
a&&: .&&££&&*
"'t
■• ••■ -■ ..... "■■ "■• .-4
2
\
ISiSiii
: g
fe
■
tV* f NP,»
m
a . 'f'
tf '********£-
V x /t=4M-2\
\n>
fe*=
ijt'lmM
m .
! kl WK\ *
ili
I
v rLk ■
T'JZ.
JL
*****
-
/7*~
J i •■' T
* ***
<1
Vs T-
-7/ I: m'~ .
Xhs*t
■ 0
=*•••::
_ M
/^D
3
I I
w ■ ;
✓5
A^air^
■■;■ ■
- %
.
ACCURACY— BuiIt to recognized and certified
standards of accuracy— BALANCE —All necessary
revolving parts are Dynamically Balanced — FINISH
—All surfaces are Machine Ground— MATERIALS
—Finest Matured High Test Alloy Castings through-
out— SMOOTH RUNNING— AII Gear Teeth are gen-
erated— VERSATILITY— All lathes have generous
Detachable Gap Bridge. "MARS" Lathe Lead
Screws are cut from a certified
and tested Master Lead Screw.
★ With the great demand for increased
production, these machines, by their
Accuracy, Simplicity and Exceptional
Versatility have won recognition in all
States of Australia, in New Zealand
and Overseas.
In the making of such
machine tools, the Aust-
ralian engineering craftsman
has enhanced the reputation
won by him during the exact-
ing years of war.
"MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use In the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds forward, 8
speeds reverse, 4ft. Sin. arm.
Built to SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF
ACCURACY.
I
Licensed Manufacturers
in Queensland
of
MEEHANITE" METALS
The “MARS”
No. 4 Full Universal
MILLING MACHINE
Fully automatic Rapid Tra-
verse in Vertical, Horizontal and
Cross Traverse. 18 Spindle Speeds
—l6 Feeds. Table 64in. x 13|in.
FOR FORWARD DELIVERY
Distributing Agents:
N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney. VlC.—Servian Machine
Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne. S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., Adelaide.
W.A—The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA—CharIes
Davies. Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties Ltd., Auckland. CALCUTTA
—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road. BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S.
Mehta & Co., Ltd.. Fort Bombay. HONG KONG AND SHANGHAI—The
East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
1
i
-v
Sole Queensland Distributors for
SERVIAN MACHINE TOOLS
The “MARSM6 1 / 2 in. SHAPER
A high-speed Machine for all classes of Shaping work.
The Ram has been specially treated to prevent seizing,
thus ensuring firm, even movement. All necessary revolv-
ing parts are Dynamically Balanced, and all surfaces are
machine ground.
é
MACHINE TOOL
M ANFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGES?. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advt,
