

.producers of
fcA DRY
The Bulletin
“TKe Bulletin,” Vol. 68-3511
Wednesday, May 28, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CLIFDEN CASCADE IN IRELAND’S RUGGED CONNEMARA
TN this land of craggy mountains, beautiful loughs and swiftly
flowing rivers scenes such as that pictured above are common.
The Clifden Cascade, close to the village of Clifden at the western
extremity of the railway from Dublin far to the east, is typical
of many a view in Western Galway which scenically is a traveller’s
paradise. This is fairy country where a man may fence off part
of his garden for the fairy folk. They’ll tell you, hereabout, of
great mysteries, part tradition and part make-believe, which go
back into ancient times when the druids from Mil forced the
forefathers of the fairy folk, the Tuatha de Danapn, into secret
places. Here fairies still have their haunts where no true son or
daughter of Galway would dare to intrude for fear of dreadful
penalties, of which bad luck would be the least. Perhaps of more
importance to the visitor, Clifden is the commencing point for
many journeys along the shores of Galway, where mighty Atlantic
rollers thunder against -the ruggedly indented coast.


fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation; your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin.^
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
"LIGHT IN THE VALLEY."
The best stories in Cecil Mann’s The
River were concerned with fighting and
fishing: two highly honorable Australian
institutions. There were “The Gun,”
a study in steel, and “Stiff Luck for the
Colonel,” a study of steel gone rusty in
the peace after the 1914 war; there was
“The Pelican,” showing a wowser re-
deemed into fishing on Sundays; and,
bringing fighting and fishing into a unity
symbolising the ferocity of life and the
need to accept and master it, there was
the title story dealing with a refugee
from Europe who comes to an Australian
town on a tidal river.
In Light in the Valley (Dymock’s), an
experimental novel dealing with the same
locality as the majority of The Rivpr
stories, Cecil Mann has, as well as a
good deal of war, a bit of boxing:
The heavy rain, fell on their shoulders,
and coursed down their bare bodies, break-
ing in cascades over the tops of their trunks.
Both were bleeding freely from their eye and >
temple gashes, which between rounds their*
seconds could do nothing to stop in the
downpour. Carried by the pelting rain, the
blood coursed down over their bodies in a
crimson wash.
And for all that, when one of them
slipped on the wet canvas the other stood
poised and waited for him to get on his
feet. Then they stood and slogged again.
The crowd, hunched in their dark bivouac
in the rain, now yelled and shouted from
dripping mouths at every water-squirting
punch. The fierce spectacle of blood and
spirit was nearing its end.
The war is that of 1914, which by
now begins to become legendary. Cecil
Mann deals with one private legend, the
fantastic episode of the poet and bee-
keeper Frank Godwin who brews mead
in his bath and who saw his brother,
killed years before on Gallipoli, walk
into a tree in the centre of the river-
town of the novel: a kind of ghostly
embodiment of all the wild and tremen-
dous experience which soldiers have
brought back to enrich, deepen and
harden the Australian mind . . . One
private legend, and one public—Gallipoli.
For “Old Rosy,” which has appeared in
The Bulletin in short-story form, is not
only a moving tragicomedy of an old
military-minded Dane who wanted his
son to be a soldier and was led to be-
lieve, until the war broke out, that he
was going to be a parson, but is also
an analysis of the Australian spirit which
might have been entitled “The Making
of an Australian.” The Dane’s son
never becomes the Germanic sort of
heel-clicker the old man had in mind ;
he becomes one of the men who made
the greatest of Australian legends : —-
Carl in one of the first of the ship’s
boats to ground its bow on the shingle.
Leaping with the rest into the thigh-deep
water with rifle and bayonet. Splashing
on up to the beach they had been told was
ahead of them in the dark. The flashes
of the firing rifles and machine-guns in
front of them. The crack and whine and
zipping splash of the angry bullets. The
yelling of men drunk with the fire of life
and death commingled in them. Of men
crying out as the sudden avalanche of
pain seared them. Falling to drown
wounded in the water.
On to the firm bit of beach. Darker in
there in the shadow of the cliff. And
another kind of yelling. The howls of
death and defeat, the mad ' shouts of
triumph.
On and up as the day broke. Through
the prickly gorse and the myrtle shrubs and
the wild thyme. On up to the heights
above. Shooting now at the leaping
silhouettes. Using cover as the day became
clearer. At their backs, the sea. Ahead of
them, nothing tangible that they could have
named. Nothing but Turks to be killed,
to be picked off and shot down in their
tracks as they leapt and twisted like moun-
tain animals from cover to cover.
There is fighting, then, in plenty:
private fighting, private experience in
war, and the making of the national
legend. There is also, in the activities
of a monster of a dog named Whiskers,
who concludes his career of banditry by
killing a man, comic fighting. And, as
Whiskers is gun-shy (as also was his
original owner, the boxing Andrew
Nolan) there is the reverse of the fighting
spirit; something not exactly condemned,
but noted.
Of fishing there is less than might be
expected. Andy Nolan, in the chapter
entitled “Champion of the Valley,” pre-
pares to enjoy “a little perch fishing in
against the bank among the willows and
eddies above the railway bridge,” but
the book a one-day novel —is ended
before he gets there. Which, from a
fisherman’s viewpoint, is a pity.
As far as the balance of the book is
concerned, however, the fact that no
fish are seen landed from the river—
unless Superintendent Clarkson hooked
a couple before the ricochet solved the
“murder” of Herbert Matthews —is of
no importance. There is plenty of what
fishing stood for in “The Pelican,” the
earthy comedy of small-town life, to
surround the fighting with a mitigating
mellowness: the prophet Bull, a “Wool-
loomooloo Yank” who makes a living
by announcing the end of the world;
the newspaper which works on the prin-
ciples that anything which might damage
the circulation is “best left to the
imagination” and that if a dog bites a
man it is news enough for the “Star” ;
its editor, who was once going to write
a highly original Australian novel about
the pioneers; the workman who dropped
his pipe off the bridge and, without think-
ing, dived after it; and Micky the Ram
—a symbol of the type of pioneer “best
left to the imagination”—who charged
the pub door and burst it open with his
head, and who swam out into a great
flood to salvage a pig for himself....
This is the comedy of the town, earthy
or salty. And here, too, as in the title
story of The River, every now and again
there is the outbreak of sudden, pas-
sionate profundity, a gashing of the
placid surface to show life’s underlying
savagery: as when two simple followers
of the prophet Bull believe, in the midst
of a thunderstorm, that the world is
really coming to an end)
It came suddenly, after a lull of humid
evening stillness, with a shattering thunder-
clap that rattled and all but broke the
window beside the Salters’ bed. They
startled up from their sleep, feeling, as
well they might have done without any
Professorial inspiration, that the End was
upon them. They felt, too, though they
clung trembling together, that they, and
perhaps they alone, were ready for it.
With each flash of the chain lightning,
coursing its jagged violence down the
window, the room about them was momen-
tarily lighted. It showed them holding each
other tightly, wan faces drawn in an
ecstasy of expectation.
Their limbs and bodies locked together,
breathless at each vivid flash, breathing
again in the alternate pitch darkness, they
were being swept, even as the Master had
foretold they would be, into their vast
Unknown.
The storm passed; but they clung to-
gether, their warm lives locked in their
supreme moment. Or is the right thought
the comic jig of a pair of scarecrow
puppets?
Striking as are most of these episodes,
there are times, particularly in the chapter
headed “Champion of the Valley,” when
the book is difficult reading. The author
himself has been doing a bit of fighting.
Mr. Mann has, in fact, endeavoring to
present an “Image” of the valley, as
seen in sharpened perspective on a day
in which there is to be an eclipse of the
sun, forced on himself the problem
Conrad battled with in Lord Jim and
Nostromo : a reminiscent method of con-
struction which necessitates going back
and back in time when the reader is
naturally anxious to go forward... Still,
one goes back to Andy Nolan’s fight in
the rain: Borrow and Hazlitt would have
thought the journey worth the effort.
And as the “Champion” episode
“comes good” at the end, so does the
construction of the book as a whole.
Opening with the dawn breaking through
the fog, the book has had hardly more
than the movement of the light through
the valley for its central theme. That,
and an intellectual concept. Fierce,
humorous, and as a whole fiercely
humorous, the stories are gathered in
the final chapter into a curious and mov-
ing unity; for as, watched from a hill-
top by all the characters of the novel,
the sun is eclipsed, the author takes in
his hand, as it were, the whole life of
the valley, extinguishes it and then, when
bands of light begin to ripple across the
landscape, gives it breath again. The valley
and its people, the fishing and the fight-
ing, are an image of Australian life as
a whole; and in the moment after it has
been freed from the threat of extinction#
it is seen, in a singularly beautiful piece
of writing, as “all a place of gay enchant-
ment. A Valley dancing with light and
shadow and shadow and light.”
Substance and Shadow.
To pick up Charles Williams’s 4ti
Hallows Eve (Faber) just after renewing
acquaintance with Samuel Pepys is to
find a strange contrast. Pepys, opened
at random, runs like this:
25th. To Whitehall, and so to dinner at
the Wardrobe, where my wife met me, and
there we met with a venison pasty, and
my Lady very merry and very handsome,
methought. After dinner my wife and I
to the Opera, and there saw again “Love
and Honour,” a play so good that it has
been acted but three times and I have seen
them all, and all in- this week; which is
too much, and more than I will do again
in a good while.
Coming out of the house we met Mrs.
I seeming willing to stay with them to talk
my wife grew angry, and whether she be
jealdUs or no I know not, but she loves
not that I should speak of Mrs. Pierce.
Home on foot very discontented, in my
way I calling at the Instrument maker,
Hunt’s, and there saw my lute, which is
now almost done, it being to have a new
neck to it and to be made to double strings.
So home and to bed. This day I did give
my man Will a sound lesson about his
forebearing to give us the respect due to a
master and mistress.
Charles Williams, it is immediately
apparent, offers a more shadowy fare than
venison pasty;
It had gone, that indrawing cry, where
only it could go, for the eternal City into
which it was inevitably loosed absorbed it
into its proper place. It could not affect
the solid houses of earth nor the millions
of men and women toilfully attempting
goodness; nor could it reach the paradisal
places and their inhabitants. It sounded
only through the void streets, the apparent
fa?ades, the shadowy rooms of the world
of the newly dead. There it found its way.
Other wanderers, as invisible to Evelyn
as she to them, but of her kind, felt it —
old men seeking lechery, young men seek-
ing drunkenness, women making and believ-
ing malice, all harbourers in a lie. The
debased Tetragrammaton drew them with
its spiritual suction; the syllables passed
out and swirled, and drawing their captives
returned to their speaker The souls in
that place know their own proper sounds
and hurry to them.
Pepys, who in modern times would
probably have been a novelist, submits in
his diary what tradition has recognised
as the proper material of the novel: the
ordinary lives of men and women in all
their fascinating detail. Yet Williams’s
novel, the opposite in almost every respect
from Pepys, is now in its fourth edition.
When, in 1945, All Hallows Eve was
first published it was unreadable because
Faber, due to war-time shortages, had
been forced to print it on a villainously
thin yellow paper ; now much improved
in this respect, it is still difficult to read,
being vague, thin, mystical and remote.
More than anything else, it is like T. S.
Eliot’s poetry, from which—“the void
streets, the apparent fapades, the shadowy
rooms of the world of the newly dead”
—it obviously derives:
0 dark dark dark. They all go into the
dark,
The vacant interstellar spaces, the vacant
into the vacant^
The captains, merchant bankers, eminent
men of letters.....
1 said to my soul, be still, and let the dark
come upon you
Which shall be the darkness of God. As,
in a theatre,
The lights are extinguished, for the scene
to be changed
With a hollow rumble of wings, with a
movement of darkness on darkness,
And we know that the hills and the trees,
the distant panorama
And the bold imposing facade are all being
rolled away...
The publishers have claimed, and with
some justice, that All Hallows Eve may
be read as “an ordinary thriller.”
Divorced from its mystical interest it
would be, indeed, a very ordinary thriller.
There is a Mr. Simon Leclerk in whose
character is not a singlb redeeming trait,
nothing but villainy. And in his power
lies a weak-witted girl named Betty, whom
Simon Leclerk proposes on several
occasions to murder; but on each
occasion hs is foiled by the altogether too
timely arrival of the hero or the heroine.
Simon is of course defeated in the last
chapter—he vanishes, as it happens, in
“a fume of crimson” —and Betty marries
Jonathan.
In Ihe best fiction as in the worst it
is sometimes necessary for villains to be
destroyed and virtue to triumph. It
happens in life ; it happens, essentially, in
“Macbeth.” Whether or not such a plot
is acceptable as a work of art depends
wholly on the characterisation. There
must be what is called the “sympathetic
bridge” between the villain and the
reader, some touch of humanity in his
composition that will make one feel sorry
for him even while condemning him.
Lacking that sympathetic bridge, you
have melodrama: the villain is outside
life, beyond credibility, a monster. And,
regarded from this point of view, Simon
Leclerk being a monster and, in conse-
quence, the whole development of the
story obvious, creaking, mechanical, All
Hallows Eve is something less than an
“ordinary” thriller; a mere melodrama.
Of course, as an incarnation of Anti-
christ, or, possibly, the Devil, Simon is
necessarily “outside life” in one sense.
He is portrayed as an adept in black
magic, of divine or devilish origin, who is
seeking to gain control of both the
physical and spiritual worlds. Betty is to
be murdered so that he will have an
agent in the spiritual world and another
girl, Evelyn—in her feeble and wretched
way the most effective piece of charac-
terisation in the novel—is to be drawn
from the spiritual world and given a
living body (for she has recently been
jaiiibuuiittUiyyiiA
familiar on earth. Simon is fought in
the ghostly sphere by a third girl named
Lester, who was killed in the same acci-
dent as Evelyn, and on earth by Betty s
lover Jonathan and Lester s former
husband Richard, both under ghostly in-
fluences. *
It might be suggested, then, that All
Hallows Eve is a special kind of ghostly
thriller to which the ordinary rules of
art might not apply. But if that were
true, the book would be beyond criticism.
It is submitted as a novel ; as such it
must be assessed and as such, normally,
it would be read ; or, more likely, not
read —to the extent it has been.
For Charles Williams, in contrast to
most writers who have made a success
of ghostly or spiritual dramas, including
Milton and Goethe, does not believe that
the Prince of Darkness is a gentleman.
Perhaps he is right; the Devil may well
be the very devil, pure evil. But in that
case he is most intractable material for
art. There is nothing of the human
interest of Milton’s Satan in Simon Le-
clerk, so that even on its spiritual level
the novel lacks movement, suspense and
drama, except in a mechanical way.
Normally, then, the appeal of All
Hallows Eve would be slight. There is
some faint interest in the minor charac-
ters ; and, by a sort of p'aradox, since
the book is an attack on black magic,
there is some scientific and historical in-
terest in the author’s descriptions of
magical rites, particularly when Simon,
with dust and flame and incantations,
“makes” a dwarfed old woman so that the
dismal Evelyn may enter her body. But
neither the minor characters nor the black
magic would carry this novel through
four editions.
The times are not normal. It has been
pointed out before on the Red Page that
there is something of a religious revival
going on in English literature. The
sequence of events leading up to it would
appear to be: first, the novels after the
Great War, full of rage and despair;
next, the tremendous interest in books
dealing with economic subjects during
the slump ; next, the books of journalists
such as Douglas Reid and Van Paassen,
warning of war again ; and now novel
after novel (and plays and poetry) on
mystical or religious themes, a movement
ranging at its best from Eliot and C. S.
Lewis to Emlyn Williams’s play “The
Wind of Heaven” at its worst. The whole
process is a picture of a sick world des-
perately seeking for a cure.
In its latest as in the earlier phases,
the movement has essentially little to do
with literature. All Hallows Eve, a poor
novel, has run through its four editions
because, with considerable imagination
and plausibility, it seeks earnestly and
intelligently to explore-the world of the
dead. Nobody could really believe that
Simon Leclerk is going to destroy the
universe with an instrument as feeble as
Evelyn; but everybody in war-torn
Europe must be interested in the fate of
the individual after death. The book
fails as creative literature ; succeeds as
metaphysics.
The great novelists, generally speaking,
have been interested more in life than
in death ; interpreting their function as
the presentation of the substance rather
than the pursuit of the shadow. All
Hallows Eve is a profound book, but
there is no joy in it, only talk about joy.
Reading it after Pepys is like shaking
hands with a ghost. It is as well that,
while turning to works of this kind in
hunger for spiritual nourishment, the
English have also read Trollope very
widely during the last few years; for
that great man, like Dickens and like
Fielding, like Boswell and like Pepys, is
reassuringly solid.
Reviewed Briefly.
An End to Tears: Russell S. Clark
(Peter Huston). An essentially journa-
listic account of observation in territory
lately occupied by the Japanese, differing
in no important details from newspaper
accounts at the close of the war.
Out of the Strong: Patricia Costello
(Collins). Novel about south-western
Western Australia and Brian Rule, an
exceedingly clean-cut sort of a hero who
has a fair portion of his life dealt with in
253 pages, including war, which is dealt
with thus:
And, on the other side of the world,
lost in the vacuum of that hellish four
tears, the youth and flower of Australia’s
manhood fought their way through to the
bitter end. Some of the boys who had
left Little Creek did not return ; others
came back grave-eyed men—and among
them, Captain Brian Rule, M.C.
Settling down, and marrying, and taking
part in the normal life of the district, the
r.nn t ;,v,p t to hp. ac SC


give a donation today to our food for hritain appeal, official receiving depot, GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET
i
mem
mmm
m
•1
m
m
•SS
m.
m.
n
1
W
V\
u.
\s
#
m
mam
Because we realise a modern Pharmacy demands modern equipment,
we have installed a modern Refrigerator for the keeping of Penicillin
We now stock all brands of Penicillin Preparations.
Obtainable only by Doctors’ Prescriptions.
m
i
<**
*SS
9
iS
m
m
W
Surgical Elastic, strong elasticity.
Width of 1 1 inches. Per yard, 5/9
Athletic Supports
• For all kinds of Sports
Johnson and Johnson’s Athletic
Supports will give you that comfort
during play that will mean out-
standing improvement in your
game. They’re the champions’
choice. Price 4/-
Just received from America, these
Athletic Supports (on left) . . .
used extensively by American
.Sportsmen . . . sure to be popular
here, too. See them now at
Anthony Horderns’ Chemistry Dept.
Prirp
This Surgical Elastic, made in England,
is | inch wide. The elastic is strong and
durable and is priced at 2/9 per yard.
“Model” Elastic Trusses
No. g
No. ii
We have all types and
sizes of Elastic Trusses
made from the best
British Elastic . . .
these trusses will give
you the comfort you are
seeking. No. 9 (illus-
trated at left) is priced
at 27/6. No. ii 3 32/6
t
All sportsmen will be able to play their game in
comfort with no fear of harmful injury by wearing
one of these modern trusses.
Prices differ according to truss required.
• Chemistry Department—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
TELEPHONE M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


TH4>
4*
A
£
iris'
v
I'M E
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —Janies Burns - Josejih iviitchell - P. T. W. Black - Frederick
Ewen Foxton - Eric Priestley * Fee.
Manager—F. S. Parker. Secretary—E. R Overton, A.F.FA.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE:' 'BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0.. Sydnty.
BP 4 44.
f
THIS
DUPLICATOR
k gs all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
DETAILS AND PRICES cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
ON APPLICATION. Plans. Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
2/- per copy. 22 j 6 a year post free.
Jk &
the whole
street
talked
■C
0 0 •
m
f
&• “
ySi
; N
V«N
■ ■■■' |ppi?v. f
*si IC \
'>?■ livN
i 1
K 'l ' 7 ’
WHEN M RS JON
WAS ARRESTED!
I
" .
pu k ,t * nd .
*./ aci : -* *■*,/ 4u «
l . kla *tke t S a «d ..
isr! p.v? ,a^
fj ie of a :r ; -
o* er ° f *« Pr ,
fc eaefi t 3 "' es u ° , ' er «n l e,
du «es, of ' J°ile s J Pub! ‘
*
There a?e thousands of women to-day who
would have to plead guilty to such a charge .. . brought
about by their careless spending, indulgence in luxuries,
and little everyday extravagances that so quickly mount
up. Such thoughtless use of money is a two-fold danger.
5 FIRST, it dissipates your income
and savings, so that later on, when
goods are ‘plentiful again and better
values obtainable, you won’t have the
money to enjoy them. ,
SECONDLY, careless spending encour-
ages inflation, fosters the blackmarket,
reduces the value of money, loVers living
standards.
That’s why we must exercise self-control
. . . that’s why we must save money now,
to help prevent inflation, to speed recov-
ery, fo secure the future. And the best—
most profitable—way to save is by holding
all your Bonds and Savings Certificates,
by buying more of thejiew 5-Year Savings
Certificates regularly, and by subscribing
in advance to the next Commonwealth
Loan.
Save for
Security
5 WAYS TO SECURE YOUR
FUTURE AND AUSTRALIA'S
1. Buy only what you really need. Spend
wisely . , . get full value. Save all you
can.
2. Pay no more than the fixed or regular
prices. Always surrender coupons..
3. Don’t waste money on blackmarket
goods.
4. Pay your way. Settle your debts. Buy
for cash.
5. Invest your savings, at better than
bank interest, in Commonwealth Bonds,
Savings Certificates and Stamps. Later
on you’ll have the money, plus the inter-
est, to spend on better goods in plentiful
supply at better values. Hold all the
Bonds and Certificate;; vmi nu/n
BUY BONDS AND SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
N 54.113 57
Position Vacant,
ROYAL PRINCE ALFRED HOSPITAL.
MATRON AND SUPERINTENDENT OF NURSING.
Applications in writing are invited for the above
position to this Hospital. 1400 beds. Applicants
are required to provide details of age, qualifications,
positions held, war service (if any). The successful
applicant will be required to live in. Remuneration
commensurate with ability. Applications close 21st
June with the undersigned General Superintendent.
DR. H. SELLE, General Superintendent.
-as*
£
£5
<
ea
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
0. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To bruy second-hand copy of Economic
Geography, by Jones and Darkenwald. —4018.
To buy or lease a one-horse mower. —4019.
To buy copy of Aerodynamic Theory, vols.
4 and 5, by Durant, and Elements of Aerofoil
and Airscrew Theory, by Glanert. —4020.
To buy machine for making candy floss. —
'4021.
Information Sought.
(1) Can gift parcels of foodstuffs or clothing
not exceeding 11 lb. weight be sent to Germany?
(2) If so, what items may be sent? (3) Rates
of postage? (4) Can money orders be sent to
Germany ?
(1) Yes. (2) The contents of the parcels are
restricted to essential relief items consisting ot
non-perishable foodstuffs, clothing, soap and
medicines. No writing or printed matter may
be enclosed in a gift parcel. Only one parcel
each week may be sent by the same person
to the same addressee. (3) Up to 31b., 4s. 7d.;
over 31b. and up to 71b., 6s. 6d., and over 71b.
and up to 111b., 9s. 3d. (4) There is no money-
order service with Germany at present, but it
may be possible to arrange a transfer through
the Commonwealth Bank.
* * * *
Names of Australian aircraft manufacturers
and their products?
(1) Department of Aircraft Production,
Salmon-street, Port Melbourne. The Beaufort
division of this department is now producing
Lincoln bombers and Tudor II transport air-
craft. (2) Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation,
Fisherman’s Bend, Port Melbourne, manufac-
turers of Mustangs and Wirraways. The cor-
poration’s aircraft engine plant is situated at
Lidcombe (N.S.W.), and is now devoted to the
production of Rolls Royce Merlin and jet
engines. (3) De Havilland Aircraft Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney, Australian makers of Mosquito ,
Tiger Moths and other De Havilland produ -
ce General Motors-Holdens, Ltd., p ort Me-
bourne, • Australian manufacturers or ' JI P y
Major engines.
* * * *
(1) When is the hop-harvesting season in
Tasmania? (2) In what districts are hops
grown ? (3) Chances of employment as a.
hop-picker next year? (4) To whom should
I write for work ? ~
(1) From the end of February to about mio-
April. (2) In the Huon, Derwent Valley and
D'Entrecasteaux Channel districts. The largest
acreage is concentrated in the Derwent Valley,
New Norfolk and Bushy Park districts. (3)
Chances of employment during the season ot
1948 appear to be good. . (4) Get in toucn
with Mr. W. T. Toney, Secretary of the Tas.
Hop-growers’ Association, 105 Macquane-street,
Hobart.
* * * *
Under what Act of the Commonwealth Par-
liament are R.A.N. officers who enlisted for
the duration of the war retained in the R.A.N..
Can you quote the relevant regulations ?
Certain officers are retained in the R.A.N.
by virtue of the Defence (Transitional Pro-
visions) Act, 1946. This Act amended Regu-
lation 5 of the National Security (Naval Forces)
Regulations to read as follows: “5. Any
appointment, promotion or extension of the
age for retirement of an officer or man of the
Naval Forces, and any transfer of an officer
of the Citizen Naval Forces, effected under
the National Security (Naval Forces) Regula-
tions as in force prior to the first day of Janu-
ary, 1947, and subsisting immediately prior to
that date shall, unless sooner terminated by the
Governor-General, continue until the prescribed
time.” The prescribed time is December 31,
1947.
* * * *
Must all the questions to be asked at the
forthcoming census be answered? What is the
penalty for not answering any particular
question ?
All the questions on the Census Schedule
to be used at the Census on June 30, 1947,
have been prescribed under the Census and
Statistics Act, 1905-1946, or by the regulations
(Statutory Rules, 1947, No. 3) made under
that Act. Penalty for failure to supply anj
information is £lO, and for knowingly furnish-
ing information which is untrue, £SO. There
is, however, no penalty for omitting or refusing
to state the religious denomination or sect to
which one belongs or adheres.
Brief Answers.
A.W.: Not possible from description of the
symptoms given to diagnose the cause of the
trouble with the dog. Consult a vet J.R. :
Skins of cross-bred sheep, approximately six
months after shearing, should be selected. When
removed from the carcass they should be sun-
dried and painted on the skin side with an
arsenical preparation as a preventive against
weevil infestation. For most satisfactory results
the skins should then be forwarded to a
reputable furrier for tanning R.K.H.: It
would be difficult to obtain near Sydney a
reasonable poultry farm as a going concern at
the present time, though occasionally a few
do come on the market. An area of 6-8 acres
running from 2000 to 2500 birds would be
suitable for two people, and the present price
would be in the vicinity of £3OOO to £400(2
depending upon state of buildings and type ot
home. Leaflets giving general information on
poultry farming and costs of production are
obtainable from Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney.
I.McN.: Unable to trace the word in any
vocabulary of aboriginal place-names... .J.A.S.:
England Under the Angevin Kings, by K.
Norgate, Geoffrey de Mandeville, by J. H.
Round, and article by H. W. C. Davis entitled
“The Anarchy of Stephen’s Reign” in English
Historical Review for 1903.... J.H.R.: “A
Letter from Conrad” was printed on “The Red
Page” of The Bulletin, March 23, 1916
J.C.: (1) Peter Lalor was born in Ireland. He
represented Ballarat in the Vic. Leg. Council
for one year (1855-56), and South Grant in the
Vic. Leg. Assembly, 1856-71 and 1875-87. Dur-
ing his terms in Parliament he held the Trades
and Customs portfolio, was Postmaster-General
for a short period, and for seven years Speaker .
of the Leg. Assembly. (2) December 3, 1854.
(3) Five soldiers were killed and about a dozen
injured. Sixteen miners were killed and at
least eight others died of their wounds....
E.M.P.: The line should read “The old order
changeth, yielding place to new.” It is from,
Tennyson’s “The Passing of Arthur” J.J.J.:
Yes... .1.M.M.: (1) In non-contact heater
verdigris originates in external condensation.
Drip stain affects porcelain base only. Note
that contact water is not for drinking purposes.
(2) The Epsorp salts 'sponge (loz. to quart
water) is in order. Stronger solutions in bath,
etc., used for tissue reduction. For neuritis,
rheumatism, etc., add pinch of salts to morning
glass of hot water... .F.S.: Laxative areca nut
is not sufficient for worm eradication in dogs.
Purchase santonin and calomel powders (two
or three with dosage according to weight) from
your chemist. Give one on empty stomach
twice a week.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce,
TO HERBERT CHARLES WOOD late of North Syd-
ney.—TAKE NOTICE that WINIFRED CHARLOTTE
WOOD has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 5235 of
1946 on the grounds of habitual drunkenness during
three years and upwards and cruelty and habitual
drunkenness during three years and upwards and
non-support If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the 24th June 1947 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from JOHN
CHARLES PAYNTER, Solicitor, of St. James Build-
ing, 109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New . South
Wales.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
•M
a
* i-K *“• ■* "- •- S -
FACING H PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Ventworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and bustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park , . . yet
it is merely "round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
tn
S*
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
A STIRRING APYIiiIMLTALE FQR BOYS]
m
m
Set in the days of Good
Queen Bess, and capturing
the swashbuckling atmos-
phere of the period, this
is the story of brave Hal
Munday, a young London
apprentice. He stumbles
from one danger to an-
other as he carries a
precious jewel across Eng-
land. A thrilling, amusing
and instructive book which
makes) an ideal gift.
Price - - - 7/6
A SHAKESPEARE HEAD BOOK
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You'll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Foil of Vim.
The liver should rive out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, Vousuffer from wind. You getcon*
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel "up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3. , .
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when*
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23R) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.'
d
fdfd
fd
f
df
jmmz
•W#
s£o Jp|
*®Si,V5
$
S&S
m
dfj(
Siw2
m
Msft!S'
f«sa' 1
8&
SSSSiS
r iB
M
$$
«m2^
55t»»
mv
es
0 0
£
£
b* c *t
e&
Irrespective of the price you pay for a
motor vehicle, the basic satisfaction
factor is value. Thus if you gain the
highest class refinements in the medium
price field—as you do when you select
a car from the Chrysler, Dodge, De
Soto range—you arc gaining value
that cannot be surpassed.
The styling, finish,, and interior
trim of Chrysler, Dodge, De
Soto and Plymouth bodies con-
form to highest international
standards, and are pre-eminent
in the field of Australian Body
production. When body work
of this quality is fitted to a superbly
engineered chassis, the final product is
a car which inspires pride of ownership,
and challenges competition in any price field.
You can pay more without gaining a single
pound's worth of genuine value. You can pay
less, but no such saving will compensate for
refinements which you lose.
For style, comfort and performance—COMPAßE
and you will choose Chrysler, Dodge, De Soto or Plymouth,
the
v\v\\
D^D
(AUSTRALIA! P T Y.l T D,
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: York Motors Pty. Ltd,. Buckle Motors (Trading Company) Pty. Limited, Harden and Johnston Ltd.
• MELBOURNE: Lanes Motors Pty. Ltd., Automobiles Pty. Ltd., Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited. ' ■■ " "
• ADELAIDE: Waymoutb Motor Co. Ltd., Flinders Motors Limited.
• PERTH: Winterbottom Motor Co. Ltd., Wentworth Motors Ltd.
• HOBART: Co-Operative Motors Limited, H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd., Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.
f*krysler
coin
answers to correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
LC • Put it aside for a while and come
at it again M.A.: What else did the gaol-
bird expect D.P.: Heavy-handed humor....
MH S • Note on Wells too sketchy. Verse
close' .'. .Dukie; Try a woman’s paper...*.
FW T : A youngster who read only “Dead-
wood Dicks” might have written that wild
yam M.O’C.: Give us something Australian
and half the length... .J.K.L.: You appear to
have some wild times up in your part of the
W orld D.P. (Moree); The “ghastly secret”
is safe in our keeping K.T.H.: Your airman
was grounded J.A.M.: Keep on trying
X. Farmer: A harrowing ditty:— ■
R.K.: Henry Lawson made a real story out
of the subject A.McD.: “The Boy from
Boggabri” is on his way home S.N.: What-
ever your facts may be, it isn’t short-story
writing W.R.: The Religious Editor was
the only one to show any interest in the
servant-girl who ran away with the curate....
E.S.H.: We prefer yarns set in White Australia,
not “Darkest Africa”... .G.D.W.: Detailed
descriptions, unless essential to an understand-
ing of a story, are unnecessary E.W.:
Although smoothly told it is off our beat. Try
elsewhere J.C.: This week’s most melo-
dramatic R.W.H.: Madman’s daughter who
plunged into river at midnight left us unmoved.
R.W.: “Dixon Was Different,” but not
different enough from others of his type to gain
admittance to our columns T.P.M.: We
spotted the ending half-way down page four.
R.H.: The pony, although an also-ran,
merits a second gallop V.M.: A feeble
effort G.McG.W.; Decided that Big Jack
was too noisy to have about 252 George-street.
J.M.: Hot as bad as you suggest, but still
not up P.R.W.: Why is it that the only
salesmen we hear about deal in vacuum
cleaners? G.G.: It saddened us so much that
we had to go out for a malted milk.. ..F.M.:
No payable ore in that mine L.S.J.: Not
for The Bulletin but it ought to get by
elsewhere A.C.F.: We’ve nothing but
sympathy for the bishop whose brother was a
blackmailer TJ.: One death (natural
causes), four murders and a suicide —too thick
fbr us M.N.C.: Don’t like those secret
agents who, “with information of national
importance,” forget the job to court a natural
blonde... .0.W.: Another prospector murders
his mate, then dies in the desert. Once again,
No! C.F.; Might suit a school magazine.
.... A.M.M.: Unmoved by grandmother’s
sacrifice for her spoiled granddaughter
B. : Entombed in the dungeon we keep
especially for that discarded-lover-saving-the-
life-of-his-rival’s-child yarn... .E.J.C.: It had
one distinction —the first story to arrive inspired
by McKell’s rise from boilermaker to G.-G
R.T.W.: Give us something we can smile at....
E.H.: That yarn must know its own way here,
and back, by now C.S.: “I am posting you
a story which I wrote in half-an-hour under
unusual inspiration.” How many did it take?
. ...R.L.: Noted with resignation that you’ll
write more for us if you can find the time '
T.D.: Charmed by your pickpocket who hands ;
back the wallet because a pretty girl, whom !
he doesn’t know, is in love with the victim.... !
W-M-: We deciphered the first three pages i
and then gave up the unequal struggle \
C. : “The Female of the Species” no |
better than the dozen others we regularly get j
with the same theme K.R.S.: “The value
I place on the enclosed story is ten guineas.”
It would be dear at tenpence
After four readings we were still hazy regarding
what it was about A.F.: You’re ten years
too late with that story about the drunkard
and the tin hare N.R.R. (and others):
Prospectors, explorers or others killing their
mates for gold are definitely off V.G.:
You’ve crammed more unlikely coincidences
into five pages than we should have thought
possible S.B.: Try to make your characters
talk more naturally Old woman’s
drunken inspirations failed to interest L.W.:
Some crisp humor, but the story failed to
survive a second reading H.H.: Admired
your opening sentence of seven words, but
failed to make sense of the remaining 4993.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.McG.: Can’t accept the dusky fdlow in
the foreground as an Australian abo H.M.:
Why build all your characters to resemble
telegraph poles? 9.. .E.F.D.: Mere portraits of
cats and dogs, however well drawn, are of no
use S.C.: Badly drawn, and gag was favorite
with long-dead bankers... .N.McK.: More like
tree stumps than humans, and the gags are just
as lifeless J.L.D.: Figures seem to have
been painted on the floor G.M.A.: As a
creator of fantastic blots and smudges you’ll
take some beating C.R.: Even your offer
to part with them at cut rates failed to tempt
us H.A.S.: Give large and detailed picture
of lobster and prawn in conversation to your
local fishmonger.. . .N.D.D.: You’re short of
ideas and too heavy-handed with the pen.
Why are you desiring keenly
To possess a farm again?
Why illuse yourself so meanly
By resuming things so vain?
Such as scanning skies with yearning,
And begrudging time to cough.
And yourself to work returning
Overtaking knocking off?
Why should you a farm be wanting
With a herd of swine to chase
And a big deficit haunting
You to hate a desert place ?
Ruled and fooled by city duffers
Acting like a sightless hen,
You will know a farmer suffers
Needless near three score and ten.


dfd
f
Oantas
means
The World
to you
Qantas operates the following Services:
THE "KANGAROO” SERVICE, Sydney, Bowen,
Darwin, Sourabaya, Singapore, Rangoon, Calcutta, Karachi,
Bahrein, Basra, Cairo, Augusta, Marseilles, London.
THE "BIRD OF PARADISE” SERVICE, Sydney,
Brisbane, North Queensland, “New Guinea, Rabaul.
THE "INLAND” SERVICE, Brisbane, Western Queens-
land, Darwin.
THE "ISLAND” SERVICE, Sydney, Brisbane, Noumea,
Suva.
Australia's INTERNATIONAL Airline
in association with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
mi
fl n 0
IN THE B
|| |ll B^A
&
c
&
=y
1/
/
w/
m
sassxm
L^£«ciok« l T ,M
mi
THE VINDICATION OF
TOMMY WALSH
By DON
EDWARDS
EVERYONE in Dudgenby, and most
of the people for 50 miles around,
knew Tommy Walsh. If anyone
didn’t know him it wasn’t Tommy’s
fault, for he was always telling yarns
about himself, yarns that were so amaz-
ing and improbable that they were eventu-
ally believed.
Tommy had been telling the same
yarns for so long that he believed them
himself. Now and then a new yarn
would be added to the old ones. “When
I was up in Arnhem Land,” or “When I
was managing a mine out past Tennant’s
Creek,” Tommy would say, leaning back
against a post of the hotel verandah, and
soon the new yarns would be known far
and wide,
“Did Tommy Walsh ever tell you about
that experience of his with the wild
black in Arnhem Land?” someone would
ask someone else proudly, and another
story would be added to the Tommy
;Walsh tradition.
His stories were always worth hearing,
too; neat, lively, adventurous ahd ex-
citing, with more than a touch of humor
in them; they did credit to Tommy, to
Dudgenby, and to the district.
The people of the township were as
proud of Tommy as they were of their
lucerne flats or their new hall, as proud
almost as Tommy was of himself.
HE was rather a wizened, fiery little
fellow, with a face as creased and
wrinkled as the mountain ridges and as
brown as the weather-worn wall of Ran-
kin’s pub. There was a sparkle in his
blue eyes and an upward twist at the
sides of his big mouth that gave him a
humorous expression as if he were hold-
ing back some joke that was likely to
burst out at any moment. His face had
a scar down the left cheek, an ugly-look-
ing red welt, done by a spear when he
was holding off the blacks at the Ninety
Mile Soak (d near thing that), and he
walked with a limp, caused by a big
buffalo that gored his horse Paddy to
death (poor old Paddy, the best friend
a man ever had, saved his life that day,
■ without a doubt).
Indeed Tommy had dozens of scars
and marks and disabilities, each one the
result of some hair-raising experience,
some adventure to be related at every
opportunity with a perfection that came
from frequent repetition, and a gusto
that resulted from Tommy’s intense and
abiding interest in himself.
“Talking of sharks,” said Stinson the
postmaster, one day, “have you ever seen
the sharks at Suva?” Stinson was a
sceptic and cynic; a tall, saturnine fellow,
officious and unpopular.
“No,” said Tommy. “I haven’t been
but of Australian territory.”
Tommy was a true patriot. Australia
was good enough for his yarns, even if
he did encompass most of it from Thurs-
day Island down to the West Coast of
Tasmania, and from Geraldton to Cairns,
with occasional sallies out to The Great
Barrier Reef or across to the valley of
the Fly River in Papua.
“No, I haven’t, but take a look at that,”
and he dragged the leg of his trousers
up above his knee to show, encircling his
leg, marks that could have been tooth
marks, scars of an old burn, or just
natural blemishes in Tommy’s tanned and
leathery skin.
“Don’t talk to me * about sharks,” he
said. “An old man crocodile did that.
Twenty feet long if he was an inch. A
great, ugly, stinking brute, he was on me
before I had time to swing up out of the
mud into a mangrove tree. I kicked him,
instinctively, just as he opened his jaws,
and in went my leg. His jaws closed just
as I snapped two shots at his eyes with
my revolver and killed him. His jaws
flew open as he died, the way a ’gator’s
jaws will, and, well, I was damned lucky
not to lose my leg.”
He pulled down his trouser leg and
stared belligerently after Stinson, who
had grunted his disbelief and walked off.
*‘ A FELLOW ought to crack that
Cv cove.” Tommy clenched his fists
and struck a pugilistic pose. No one
laughed, for they remembered Tommy’s
tales of the time he had knocked out the
bully of the mining camp at Bonanza
Creek, and how he had belted the hide
off the lightweight champion in a gym-
nasium in Sydney.
And, of course, some of them had seen
him give Mick Carey two stone and a
hiding when he and Mick had come to
blows over the ownership of a cattle pup
that Tommy had brought home from the
limestone hill. Tommy still had the dog.
That was the way with Tommy Walsh ;
he gave people enough evidence of his
prowess to shake their original and in-
stinctive disbelief in his stories, and soon
they joined the ranks of the believers.
Some, indeed, added to the store of
yarns concerning him, and if these yarns
were good enough Tommy gave them
his approval and later his support, but if
they fell below the standard he demanded
he not only disowned the yarns but also
dropped a hint to the originator of them
that he wouldn’t stand for any lies being,
told abouf him.
“But Tommy,” protested Percy Sinclair
from the store. “I remember you telling
me yourself about the, time you were
lost out in the Simpson Desert and how
you were lucky to find your way to
water.”
Tommy fixed Percy with his eye and
leant forward slightly, balancing on his
toes. “Not me,” he said slowly. “It must
have been someone else. I’ve never been
lost in my life,‘in the Simpson Desert
nor anywhere else.”
There was silence for a moment. Percy
Sinclair looked at the little man and
went red. “Yes, it must have been some-
one else,” he admitted grudgingly.
Tommy disliked Percy almost as much
as he did Stinson and he wasn’t going
to be patronised by anyone he disliked.
He was nothing if not independent.
But if Tommy liked you he would
invite you to his small cottage, down
near the railway yards, and show you the
rifle he used when he was a buffalo
hunter, the two revolvers he always car-
ried on his hips, low down, with the
triggers filed for quick firing, when he
was at The Granites, the spear that put
the red scar on his cheek, and the photo.


df
SEWtfUcf
%
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
£BOO,OOO
LOAN
OFFERING
£3so
PER CENT
PER ANNUM
GUARANTEED BY THE
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
An Authorised Trustee Investment
in Queensland, N.S.W. and Tasmania
• ISSUED AT PAR
• CURRENCY 20 YEARS
• INTEREST PAID HALF-YEARLY,
FREE OF EXCHANGE IN AUSTRALIA
• INTEREST MAY DE CREDITED TO CURRENT
OR SAVINGS DANK ACCOUNT
INTEREST ACCRUES IMMEDIATELY FROM DATE OF INVESTMENT
THIS GILT EDGED INVESTMENT will close not later than 9th
June. Minimum subscription is $5O, PAYABLE IN INSTAL-
MENTS IF DESIRED, FREE OF EXCHANGE. Stock is readily
saleable at any time.
APPLY IMMEDIATELY
to any office of the
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
or to Members of Recognised Stock Exchanges, or the Sydney
Water Board , from whom the full Prospectus can be obtained.
Loan underwritten by lAN POTTER & CO.,
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
W 6
of himself, looking like a film cow-
boy.
Perhaps he would bring in a bottle of
his own special home brew and force a
glass on you while he tossed off three
or four tumblers of it himself. A few
gulps of the stuff and you began to think
that Tommy might be as tough as his
stories indicated.
Tommy’s greatest trial, before the
arrival of Mrs. Elliott, was the Reverend
Fowler, a lean and cadaverous fanatic
who went through life seeking what he
regarded as the truth. However, he and
Tommy hadn’t spoken for almost two
years, so the townspeople had come to
accept the trouble between the two men
so entirely that it wasi ignored.
But with the coming of Mrs. Elliott,
Mrs. Gertrude Elliott, Tommy /found a
new and bitter opponent,
p ERTRUDE ELLIOTT, or Gertie as
'•J Tommy delighted to call her, was a
quick, waspish woman of late middle age,
always in a hurry, always talking others
smacked Tommy on the side of the face.
“You’re a silly little liar,” she shouted,
and this time her voice carried past
Rankin’s pub to the houses on the creek,
and that meant it was heard all over the
town. “A liar, a silly boaster,” she cried
as she left Tommy’s house. “Why don’t
you wake up to yourself?” she screamed
from the gate.
And from that mombnt it was war be-
tween them, unrelenting and vigorous,
with Mrs. Elliott doing the attacking, and
Tommy’s defence a passive endurance,
WHENEVER Tommy appeared, on
his front verandah, in the yard, at
the woodheap, Mrs. Eliott would dart out
of her house and send Tommy scurrying
inside by asking, in a ringing voice, such
questions as “How is your leg where the
crocodile bit you, Mr. Walsh?” or
“Have you ever tried goanna oil for that
leg of yours where the buffalo butted you? ”
Then she would laugh, aggressively and
insultingly. If she met Tommy in the
street she would ask similar derisive
questions.
Plainly, she didn’t believe any of
Tommy’s yarns, and just as plainly she
wasn’t going to be defeated by any of
Tommy’s usual methods. What is more,
a few other doubters, heartened by the
leadership of Mrs. Elliott, came into the
open and opposed Tommy.
Soon Tommy was unashamedly in re-
trfeat, and his retreat looked like becom-
ing a flight, for he hardly ventured out of
his cottage at all in the daylight, and
when he went up the street he kept glanc-
ing about furtively for any sign of Mrs.
Elliott.
Most of the townspeople began to feel
sorry for him, but his opponent was un-
relenting. She began to tell all sorts of
ridiculous stories herself about Tommy’s
down, and always asserting herself. She
had a penetrating voice that could be
heard for hundreds of yards, and a laugh
that was a direct assault. Her husband
had died recently—“probably she killed
the poor coot and ate him,” Tommy re-
marked—and she had come to Dudgenby
to live in the small cottage her husband
had owned, the place next to Tommy’s
house.
At first Tommy had been willing to
be friendly. The woman had impressed
him so much that he had invited her into
his place, shown her his exhibits and
told her one of his stories; the one about
his saving of the woman and her daughter
from the bushfire in Gippsland.
And she had put her head back and
laughed so loudly that the lumpers in the
railway yards had heard her.
Now Tommy had some stories that
evoked laughter from the audience, but
this wasn’t one of them. This was a
serious effort, so Tommy looked puzzled
and pained, and told another tale, a very
serious one about the cyclone up near
Innisfail.
Gertrude opened her mouth and bel-
lowed so loudly that the men in Rankin’s
bar came to the door to see what was
causing the noise. They heard Gertrude’s
voice, strident and amused. “Oh, Mr.
Walsh, you are a one. What lies you do
tell!”
If Tommy had let it go at that things
might have been all right, for Mrs.
Elliott obviously took Tommy as a good
joke, but such an attitude was a bitter
insult to Tommy Walsh. When he re-
covered he told her she was a silly, cack-
ling old hen, with no bloody sense or
manners. Her laughter stopped abruptly
and she flung over a quick left and
exploits, tell them with a grin and a
laugh that made the hearers understand
exactly what she wanted them to under-
stand. Instead of being proud of Tommy
the people were fast coming to regard
him as a liability, like old “Jake the
Guzzler,” who lived in a permanent
alcoholic fuddle in a humpy up the creek.
The more Tommy surrendered the
more buoyant and aggressive Mrs. Elliott
became, till one morning the township
awoke to a sensation that set everyone
gossiping, laughing and speculating.
HP OMMY had gone, Tommy’s mare and
1 one of Rankin’s horses had gone, and
so had Mrs. Elliott.
The story of their going came from the
Reverend Fowler, who told it hysterically
(Continued on page 32.)
APRICOT EARS.
The wild dog leaves the savaged ewe,
And the crow the lamb’s unpupilled eyes,
But the master killer flaunts his pride
In the stream of blood that never dries.
He carries unending trophies to vaunt
Of the violence achieved on the flesh of
the slain :
A thousand pieces attest the Cross,
And a million skulls great Tamburlaine.
So, proudly, in village of far Luzon
The wrinkled old Bontoo warrior smiled
Toothlessly, showing me there the heads
Taken ffom foes in his youth, in the wild
Headhunting days of the past: three
skulls
A stare on a ledge under the roo f
Of his grass-thatched hut—his bridal
spurs,
Pledge of strength, and manhood’s proof.
In his smile were the ghosts remembered
—the beat
Of the war-gong, the dances raising the
foam
Of the blood-lust, the stroke of the
battle-axe,
And the head-basket borne triumphantly
home.
A.C.T.
So, too, yarning in hospital beds
In New Guinea, a fellow officer told
Me how well his Papuan Infantry
Battalion fought; how one of the bold
Men in his troop, a soldier tall
And black as charcoal, without fears.
Honored his Solomon Islands tribe
By slitting off with a knife the ears —
Right ears only—of all the Japs
He had killed, to wear them down his
back
Strung on a wire, shrivelled like dried
Apricots, bobbing along the track.
Seven apricot ears, sliced
From the heads of seven killed sons
Of Heaven, dangled, preserving today
A strange, old law of the Solomons.
So honor rises, hollyhock high.
Fed on blood, rooted in bone
Of the victim ; while history still drools
In murder’s barbaric monotone.
Rubble of Hiroshima renews
The primitive rite, and through tribal
years
Our battalioned crosses of death outdo
The Bontoo heads, the apricot ears.
T. INGLIS MOORE.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders',
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
1
min
mm m mm
MW
ft 111 Mil'll I
4S>
m
Modern high-ctess accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
' Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telenhones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
For 53 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Mofor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius.
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
s, 11 7 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
J. BULL BATTLES ON.
“Is Britain actually unable to carry
on ; or is it making an excessively poor
mouth as a build-up for another loan?”
Thus N.Y. “Daily Mews” ; a publica-
tion, however, which often gives the im-
pression of trying hard to believe 1 per
cent, of what it says.
Even Chicago “Tribune,” whose fond-
ness for pulling the Lion’s tail is equalled
only by the industry it puts into that
simple pastime, can probably be credited
with having its tongue in its cheek in de-
picting J. Bull —in the cartoon on this page
—as a wicked old rake enjoying a bender
at the expense of poor, deceived, virtuous
and skeletonised Uncle Sam.
The worst that could come out would
be that J.B.’s troubles had got him so
rattled that he couldn’t still enjoy humor
when he sees it, even though he might
consider such samples perhaps a little far-
fetched. Anyway, he has enough on his
mind without worrying, as he sometimes
excessively had done in the past, about
being purposely misunderstood.
How J.B. got into his present bother
has been neatly stated in a London
“Times” letter, carrying a retort implicit
to “Daily News,” “Tribune” and any
others:
Britain has emerged as the one great debtor
nation because she put every ounce of her,
resources into winning the war, and even bore
the brunt alone for one year, while undertaking
colossal commitments in all parts of the world.
Hence an American Loan instead of an Ameri-
can Debt (towards the cost of this period).
Hence debts to such countries as Egypt and
India of £400,000,000 and £1,000,000,000 re-
spectively, incurred in defending them from the
invaders. In consequence of such astounding
indebtedness we have to export so many things
we so desperately need ourselves. One would
have thought that the total cost of the war
might have been computed and that each nation
should then contribute in proportion to its
national income.
Down, But Not Out
J.B. might well repeat, “Another such
victory will be the end of us.” He is
battling on, and nobody really knowing
him doubts that he will pull through ;
but the going could hardly be tougher.
One thing he cannot complain about —
apart from such isolationist papers as the
N.Y. “Daily News” and Chicago
“Tribune” (and, quaintly enough, the
Com. publications that are anathema to
both of them), the U.S. press in general
has certainly been giving Britain’s
troubles full publicity.
If anything, there has befen erring at
the other extreme —a representing of
J.B. as not only down but out. Suffi-
cient samples of this have already been
given here in an earlier article; lately
there has been a tendency to modify the
view. The British themselves deny it
emphatically; among them the Ambas-
sador to the U.S., Lord Inverchapel, who,
denying that Britain is “ruined and the
Commonwealth and Empire falling to
pieces,” told a U.S. audience;
Britain’s-achievements last year were not those
of an “old, horse-and-buggy, broken-down
country.” Despite the loss of 25 per cent, of
the national wealth in the war, inability to use
2,000,000 in the armed forces or employed pro-
ducing for them, and a falling off of imports
to 70 per cent, of pre-war volume —despite all
this, by the end of last year we were exporting
in volume 110-115 per cent, of our 1938 ex-
ports ; we had reached a building rate of a
quarter of a million houses a year; in 1946
we built nearly a million gross tons of shipping,
equal to 1938; and our agricultural industry,
oddly enough the most intensively mechanised
in the world, showed an increased output of
35 per cent, in value and food content.
That, however, and much more can all
be true, and yet be beside the point. The
question is not whether what has been
and is being done is wonderful, but
whether it is enough. To which might be
added, whether it can be kept up in the
faefe of what J.B. is going through in
order to do it.
The “Half-starved” Diet
Those in countries of abundance, like
America, and Australia also, who may
find it hard to get a mental picture of
what things really are like in Britain
today could not find it put more clearly
than the husband-wife writing team of
Francis and Katharine Drake have set
it forth in an “Atlantic Monthly” article.
They see J. 8., “in frayed shirt and multi-
mended socks,” anxiously eyeing the
clock, which was wound up last year by
the $3,750,000,000 voted by the U.S. “to
help the war-mauled British to their feet.”
These dollars are running out frightfully fast
—6O a second, 5,000,000 a day. By autumn
half the loan will be gone, but Britain is still
much less than halfway to the goal.
It is not enough to be making twice
as much headway as before the war;
NO! NO! IT CAN’T BE THE SAME MAN!
( Singular view of J. Bull’s troubles, as Chicago ’‘Tribune” represents them.)
twice as much again has to be made.
The writers point out that unless J.B.
can do this he will be unable to pay even
his food bills when the loan runs out.
Whether he can succeed in doing it “is
a question of towering importance not
merely to Britain, but to every nation
hopeful of keeping the world in demo-
cratic balance”:
To make the loan last longer the British are
continuing to live on an austerity diet, a regime
of skimping monotony that would raise goose-
flesh in an ordinary American home. They are
being urged to superhuman effort on this basic
ration per week: 1 quart of milk, 1 egg, 2oz.
of butter, 20 cents-worth of meat (the equivalent
of two small lamb chops), 2|oz. of tea, 2oz.
of cheese, loz. of cooking fat, 3oz. of bacon,
Boz. of sugar, 21b. lOoz. of bread.
Hobbled by the fat famine, British cooking
has deteriorated to an all-time 10w... .For seven
lean years families have faced each other across
unending vistas of boiled mutton, boiled fish,
boiled potatoes, boiled cabbage, boiled and
insufferable Brussels sprouts, boiled fruit, boiled
pudding. In the shortage of sugar and season-
ing, nothing has taste. Grey, stodgy war bread
stuns the stomach like a dip from a cement
mixer. A fresh orange, a lemon, a fresh any-
thing, is almost beyond price. A whole young
generation has been bred without a working
knowledge of a home-made cake, a fistful of
salted peanuts.
The Battered Island
Even that grim living has been de-
pendent to a large degree on the Ameri-
can loan, to further conserve which J.B.
has been driven to cutting—naturally,
against very strong protest—imports of
tobacco and films:
There are a thousand other ways in which
it would be bliss to spend part of the Loan.
Every house screams for paint and plaster, for
wallpaper, for repairs. If a ceiling falls down
—and they are constantly falling—it stays down
for six months and then only plasterboard,
without the plaster, is permitted. Every chair
calls for new covers, every bathroom for towels,
every bed for linen. The fact that even Sir
Stafford Cripps is poking toes through tattered
sheets at night, that even Buckingham Palace
is minus curtains in the upper windows, is no
longer news. In all walks of life people are
out at the knees, the elbows, the seats of their
pants.. On top of licking the spoon, the
British have had to learn how to patch, mend,
turn, make over, haunt second-hand shops,
to renovate clothing that few Americans would
keep to wash the dog. They have learned how
to dry dishes on scraps of old shirts and table-
cloths, to cover chairs with pieced potato sacks,
to extend the lives of tens of thousands of
dilapidated underclothes with worn-out sheets
and pillow slips.
Isolated reminders of Britain’s superb work-
manship—a heavy silk dressing-gown, a pigskin
bag, a tea set far removed from coarse utility
ware —will find their way occasionally into
West End shop-windows and stay there for a
week or two, magnificent against a background
of dingy consumer goods. The tag reads
plainly: “For Export Only”; and the passing
stares, while wistful, are seldom surly. The
people know how necessary it is to eat. With
80 per cent, of densely-populated England under
cultivation, using more tractors proportionately
than any other country in the world, Britain
has already pushed her food production to the
limit —a limit that maintains only one half the
austerity ration.
American visitors going down for the third
time in a morass of Brussels sprouts let fly
impetuously with: ‘‘Why do you stand for it?
Surely some decent food and a few rounds of
clothing aren’t going to bust the country?”
The British are standing for it because they
must. They have no choice between present
living standards and bankruptcy. A quarter of
all their assets were wiped out by the war:
factories, machinery, houses, half of their ship-
ping, half of their foreign stocks and bonds —
a total of 30 billion dollars. These losses are
over the dam, but their foreign responsibilities
are a continuing burden. If they abandoned
these it would free about 1J billion dollars
annually to relieve pressure on the home front.
But to pull out of Palestine and India might
precipitate civil war between Arab and Jew,
Hindu and Moslem, bring death to millions
in India through famine, and extend an open
invitation to Russia. If Britain withdrew from
the Rhineland, who would feed her zone in
Germany?
With such a set-up, Britain’s hope qf solvency
lies in the amount of raw material, she can ram
into the industrial hopper at home and sell
abroad for hard cash. Only goods can help
to meet the food bills when the Loan runs
out; only time can get the goods rolling. Time
is what U.S. dollars are giving—not much, per-
haps not enough, but at least some time.
The real heart of England’s trouble i 5....
arithmetic. Statistics are tiresome, but in the
following external balance-sheet, familiar as
their own family budgets to British men and
women, is the key to their predicament:
Outgo, 1946
Imported food and raw materials $5,200,000,000
Military forces abroad .. .. 1,200,000,000
Help to Germany, Italy, etc. .. 500,000,000
Total Outgo Abroad .. .. $6,900,000,000
Income, 1946
Shipping, etc $600,000,000
Interest on foreign investments 400,000,000
Exports 3,800,000,000
Total Income from Abroad $4,800,000,000
Total Deficit for 1946 .. .. $2,100,000,000
This statement is the activating force behind
Britain’s policy today. •It explains why she
dare not import more and better food, why
she cannot improve the clothing ration, why
she is building ships night and day to boost
her shipping income to its pre-war level, why
she wants a self-supporting Germany.
Wanting to Emigrate
It makes its own comment on what
the British are going through that a
public opinion poll a month or two back
revealed that no less than 40 per cent, of
the population between the ages of 20
and 30 wanted to emigrate.
That is easily a record. At present,
lack of shipping is holding up the exodus ;
but even if the shipping could be found
steps would certainly be taken to prevent
anything like such a mass migration. As
the writers of the “Atlantic Monthly”
article point out, “In the struggle toward
recovery, Britain’s most harrowing short-
age is manpower.”
The writers put Britain’s war casual-
ties, killed and disabled, at 600,000. To
that they add “the handicap of inexperi-
ence in nearly all skilled tpdes” brought
about by the numbers that had to be
held for years in war service. As well,
there are the numbers who have still to
be kept in uniform for occupation jobs
and similar service abroad.
All these things—wretched living con-
ditions, little and poor food, manpower
shortage—are obstacles to J.B. achieving
the enormous production objectives he
has set himsdf. The “Atlantic Monthly”
writers see another cause for doubt:
A house that is divided against itself can-
not stand. More than deprivation, a growing
disunity between Government and Industry
must reduce almost to a vanishing point Great
Britain’s chances of reaching her production
goal. Even with working harmony, the chances
of reaching it before tne Loan runs out are
none too good. If she cannot better them
she will find herself face to face with collapse.
If she cannot feed herself she cannot succor
others. With no alternative but starvation
it is hard to see how she will be able to avoid
making a move of world consequence, by
scratching from her balance sheet these two
vital items: Military forces abroad, $1,200,-
000,000, and Help to Germany, Italy, etc.,
$500,000,000. If Great Britain is driven to do
this the democratic world will find itself con-
fronting a question-mark of very grave sig-
nificance.
As far as Britain is concerned, such a move,
combined with a moderate rise in exports,
would enable her to keep herself afloat
economically. But it would be a sorry day
if the British, working their hearts out to be
free from debt, were, to find that in their pre-
occupation they had lost a deeper freedom,
one that had always been their best-loved,
most fiercely-guarded heritage.
The Planned State is being put together in
Britain by men of honest purpose and ideals.
But Planned States have been put together
before by well-intentioned men, only to be
hijacked, prostituted, concluded in chaos and
in a nation’s shame. When the minority voice
is silenced, the road to serfdom is opening up
ahead. Already in Britain it is becoming a
condition of employment to belong only to
unions affiliated with the T.U.C. No approved
union, no job. Already there have been
attempts to limit the jurisdiction of the Courts,
to deny the individual full rights over his house
and land, to deprive him of the rewards of
initiative. Doing what one is told to do is
not so many steps away from thinking what
one is told to think.
Outwardly, the people of England are carry-
ing on much as before, short though they are
of almost everything but patience. The people
may be shabby, but they still keep their island
neat and pretty as a park. Crimson-robed
Judges still dispense the same incorruptible


A fine drink for a wintry night
WOLFE’S
<zJhomabc
SCHNAPPS
I
ml
m
r//
f//,
BiW
M
• b m
**ni
L ‘ • »n
C£
m
f - - ■ ■-
n
Fl - 0Z»
justice. Housewives still share their rations
and fight their everlasting battles of making do.
Men still put their shilling on the dogs, stop
for a pint of mild-and-bitter, for an argument
about the Test match.
Inwardly, there is a slow, growing uneasiness.
The people, so patiently working for better
days, are less patiently watching the growing
invasions of their individual freedom, so
scrupulously respected by every previous British
Government. Something more than rationing
is worrying the< British people. During a recent
attempt to strong-arm the nurses of a big Lon-
don hospital into a closed-shop union, the
nurses protested and were roughly dismissed.
Instantly headlines blazed. Editorials crackled.
A long, menacing growl arose across the nation.
The Government backed down, the growl sub-
sided. But for a moment there had been pre-
science that the vast irrevocable powers of
Nationalisation, if misdirected, could lead, over
the dead body of John Bull, to One • Party,
One Leader—to Despotism.
Still a “Good Risk”
Despite all the foregoing, present
American expectation of J.B.’s ulti-
mate recovery matches the goodwill
that is father to it. Thus the “Saturday
Evening Post,” commenting on those pro-
claiming J.B.’s demise and speculating on
Uncle Sam taking over, adds: “For our
part, we expect the British to outlast
this toying with the millennium and re-
main on the scene for some time. They
are suffering from a want of dollar ex-
change and an excess of doctrinaire
muddling. Britain, with her assets of
character, has fought off worse combina-
tions.”
As Americans watch J.B.’s struggle
with the admiration he deserves that
view is once more steadily gaining ground,
replacing the very pessimistic views of
only a month or two back. As another
typical example, Dr. Nicholas Murray
Butler, president emeritus of Columbia
University and probably the most re-
spected of all American scholars, sees
hope in the Federal system of the British
Commonwealth:
By this system the power and influence of
the British people should be greatly increased
so soon as the present difficult economic and
social problems are 501ved...,! have faith that
these will be wisely and constructively solved
in the years which are to follow.
Quoted with Dr. Butler and others in
a canvas of views widely published in
America, former director of the U.S.
Office of Price Administration Chester
Bowles conlmented;
The British Empire is in its final stages, but
the British Commonwealth of Nations, freed
of the expense and responsibility of empire,
will continue as a vigorous democratic force
in world affairs. It may be that the British
Commonwealth of Nations, with its middle-of-
the-road economic and social philosophy, will
eventually provide the leadership necessary to
bring the East and the West together.
Also showing the much improved view
of J.B.’s survival chances, the “Christian
Science Monitor” reports U.S. Govern-
ment officials as “emphasising that Britain
is far from collapsing economically or
politically; Washington is not writing
Britain off as a bad risk,”
THERE’LL ALWAYS BE....
A footnote to the foregoing article on
Britain ; and perhaps of more real signi-
ficance than all the statistics and econo-
mists’ theories put together:
In the House of Commons the Minister
for Agriculture was speaking of the agri-
cultural losses by the frost, the snow and
the floods. He put the loss, through
exposure and starvation, at 2,000,000
sheep and 30,000 store cattle. Most of
the sheep died in the hills, where there
was no means of getting fodder to them,
though some were saved by dropping
bales of hay from the air.
The Minister gave other figures. Some
600.000 English acres had been flooded,
with serious damage to 70,000 acres of
corn and the loss, which “housewives
will feel for another three months,” of
80.000 tons of potatoes. The wheat
acreage would be at least 500,000 short
of the target set for this season; the
equivalent of one month’s bread ration
for everybody.
The member for Bury raised the ques-
tion of whether existing stocks and con-
tracts with India and Ceylon could enable
the tea ration to be maintained.
The responsible Minister was uncer-
tain ; a strike in Ceylon and delay in
shipments from Calcutta made it hard
to say whether the “present level of dis-
tribution could be maintained during the
summer months,” the “present level” be-
ing about 71b. per person per year.
The Minister further mentioned that
the livestock losses had “increased anxie-
ties about meat supplies.” He was sin-
cerely grateful to the Argentine Govern-
ment for deciding to let Britain have,
under its contract, the whole of Argen-
tina’s exportable surplus of meat for the
next few months, though this “could not
remove our anxieties or by any means
fully offset the losses from home pro-
duction.”
The Minister sat down, and Earl Win-
terton arose to ask if the Home Secretary
would “consider circularising local police
authorities calling attention to the need
for seeing that the wild birds protection
law was enforced.” The future existence
of the kite and the golden eagle was
threatened. “In the opinion of many ex-
perts the golden eagle is in danger of
extinction in the next 30 years. It is in
danger not only from gamekeepers and
shepherds, which might be understood,
but also from egg-collectors, who are
thieves and gangsters who make a busi-
ness of breaking the law and stealing the
eggs of rare birds.”
Thb Labor member for ' Bedford:
“These dastardly thieves are offering as
much as* £lO a clutch for rare eggs.”
Earl Winterton: “It is a shocking state
of affairs.”
The Labor member for Bedford: “It
JOSHUA COMMANDS THE SUN TO STAND STILL.
(A more representative U.S. view of J. Bull today; from Minneapolis "Star.”)
has been a sickening sight during the
winter to find poulterers’ shops displaying
the dead bodies of those delightful birds,
piovers and curlews.”
The responsible Minister declared that
he would “take the most active steps to
bring the scandal of the destruction of
the curlew to an end.” As for the golden
eagle, it was true that the depredation
against it threatened to make it extinct
within 30 years, and “the Secretary of
State for Scotland intended to take all
steps open to him to avert such a
disaster.”
The House adjourned for a fortnight.
As the song has it, “There’ll always be
an England”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
#
Dragons’ Teeth. —Whatever other dragons’
teeth get sown in the peacemaking, there are
already signs that one of the sowings most
certain to sprout will be that along the eastern
boundaries that are fixed for Germany. An
authority on central Europe, J. Emlyn Wil-
liams, has reported in “Christian Science
Monitor” that, “the Russians are far from
winning over the Germans,” the Soviet dilemma
being to give them “one of the things most
desired, namely, an appreciable alteration in
their frontier with Poland without at the same
time affronting the Poles,” and it’s no help to
the Soviet that both Britain and U.S. openly
favor shunting the Poles back at least some
of the way across the huge area from which
they have ousted 7,500,000 Germans and been
able to replace them with only half that num-
ber of Poles. “There are,” Williams reports,
“already indications of a growing feeling of
nationalism among the Germans,” and “this
will increase and show itself particularly in
opposition to the east, in the first place against
Poland.”
* * * 9
U.S. Policy Against ‘War. —Commenting on
the “Trunjan doctrine,” N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
has emphasised what it is not: “It is not a
proclamation of an American imperialism. It
is emphatically not a declaration of war upon
Russia; it suggests nothing to which Russia
could legitimately take exception (unless she
were bent updn a programme of deliberate
aggression), and it seems much less likely to
lead to'war than to lead to a facing and settle-
ment of the Russian-Western issue.” The
“Herald Tribune” further points out that the
policy “represents considerably less than the
policies which Moscow has without hesitation
applied to the border countries within its own
orbit.” And: “This is not a challenge to war.
It is a challenge to test and prove the relative
effectiveness, politically, economically and
socially, of the Russian and the Western sys-
tems. To accept the challenge is not to invite
a war but to help force the settlement which
will prevent one. There is no more danger
of war with Russia today than there was before
the message was delivered, indeed, there is
probably a good deal less.”
* * *
Cost of Potsdam. —Directly stemming from
the Potsdam Agreement folly, in which was
incorporated as a main element the now-
notorious “Morgenthau plan” for turning Ger-
many into a pastoral nation, not only Germany
but most of Europe as well now verges on a
state of general collapse which could have
frightful consequences for the whole world, and
which only continued vast spending by America
is likely to avert. “United States News” puts
the cost to U.S. taxpayers at $2,000,000,000,000
a year “for the privilege of keeping Germany
and Japan frdm working, with next to no
chance that any appreciable amount of that
expenditure can ever be recovered.” Regarding
Germany, “It has taken about 18 months and
gradual collapse in Europe to convince the
statesmen that the Potsdam plan wouldn’t work,
a conclusion that was reached 18 months ago
by most economists.”
* * * *
Corns Outdo Fascists. —Commenting on a
Leftish statement that “to lump Communists
with the Fascists is an atrocious reading of
4ft
history,” the “Saturday Evening Post” points
out some differences: “One is that the Fascists,
either through carelessness or corruption, per-
mitted a lot of people to escape from their
slave States. These refugees were <able to tell
the rest of us what thp Fascist ‘wave of the
future’ was like in practice. The Stalinist
Communist regime has been tougher; very few
escape, even today. Another difference is that,
whereas the Fascist fifth-column [in the U.S.]
had to depend on a handful of dubious York-
ville Germans and the American wives of
broken-down Italian counts, the Communist
fifth-column includes some of the fanciest in-
tellectuals of the The “Post” quotes
from Arthur Koestler in the Socialist “New
Leader”: “Today the Left is silent about the
crimes of Stalinist totalitarianism, silent by
dint of its moral lassitude, because of its false
allegiance; the Left, by the sin of omission,
becomes an accomplice of this eastern neo-
Nazism.”
* * * *
Understanding a Bear. —As well as the big
issues involved, quite a lot of small irritations
have helped to convince Americans that trying
to be friendly with the Russian Bear is exactly
the same as trying to be pally with a grizzly.
Fed-up with his own attempts, the U.S. Am-
bassador in Moscow, Lieut.-Gen. W. Bedell
Smith, sent a blunt letter to Molotov inquiring
• —“not too politely,” N.Y. “Daily News” says
—just how many of Russia’s “we-want-to-be-
friends” claims he was expected to believe.
What eventually got the Ambassador’s hair up
were the results from his sending to Stalin no
fewer than nine separate proposals from
“friendly, trusting American organisations and
institutions.” Among these were offers by Yale,
Princeton and Rockefeller Foundation to ex-
change scientists and scholars. Boston Sym-
phony Orchestra volunteered to go over and
play—“for free,” as the American idiom puts
it. Also, the U.S. Public Health Service wanted
to send some men over to collaborate in cancer
research, and another group wanted to swap
medical scientists with the Russians, and give
them a penicillin plant to boot. One of the
proposals was turned down; the other eight
were not even answered. “Hence,” says the
“News,” “Gen. Smith’s undiplomatic letter,”
which the fed-up Ambassador was further “un-
diplomatic” enough to circulate for publication.
* * * *
Television Not YeU —ln America radio manu-
facturers have been speaking of impending vast
production of television sets, but a meeting of
television engineers in New York gave out that
there will not be mass installations for some
years. President of the Viewtone concern,
Irving Kane, stated that “there are still a num-
ber of unknown quantities in television; even
the best engineers have been baffled by them.”
Apart from a television receiver having 10 times
the number of parts contained in an ordinary
radio set, with servicing problems highly
complicated-, there are still such hurdles to be
got over as apparently identical receivers react-
ing quite differently under the same conditions.
To service them apparently calls not only for
knowledge but “for a certain genius in elec-
trical matters.”
* * * *
Britain As U.S. States. —How very doubtful
some Americans have been about J. Bull’s
recovery was shown by the suggestion of
Senator Russell that “Great Britain might have
to end up by becoming the forty-ninth, the
fiftieth, fifty-first and fifty-second U.S. States
and the comment of the sober “United States
News” that the Senator “wasn’t being altogether
facetious.” “The Georgia Senator,” the pub-
lication added, “isnT the only one who wonders
what U.S. is to get out of it if this country
takes over all the British liabilities and leaves
Britain with all of her assets.”
♦ * * *■
Limits to U.S. Aid. —Apart from those who
are only too willing to serve Russia whatever
the issue and the very few diehard isolationist
publications like Chicago “Tribune,” it has been
accepted almost unanimously in America that
U.S. aid to other countries is thoroughly sound
in principle. Issues of discussion have chiefly
been how that aid should be given (to all or
to some) and how much Uncle Sam can afford
to give. Thus, Scripps-Howard financial editor
Ralph Hendershot, while declaring that “the
world is much closer to bankruptcy today than
most people suspect,” contends that “the United
States cannot puli the rest of the world out of
its economic hole.” He adds: “Our leadership
should be directed toward correcting funda-
mental inequalities. At best, we can only help
the people of the world to help themselves.”
Even so, he admits that the countries on which
Russia is trying to impose its control “are
powerless to resist unless they receive outside
support support from the United States.”
Hendershot really represents far the greater
section of present American feeling, which
amounts to having no liking for the world-aid
job but admitting that Uncle Sam has no choice
but to do it to the limit of his capacity


i
/
—I
mm
iili
v
I
; : :v
■M
If
***
■ X. ..V
mi
m
m.m
m
v
1
V.
aw
r
• ■
.... •--••-
*
m
#
m
r
wiPPI
■ : -v : -
'•: - .-S
fo*wrr.«»:v
i*y
PIONEERING
*
IN WELFARE
JN AUSTRALIA in the ’fifties, dramatic happenings were afoot—the gold rush and the
development of schemes of responsible government —but England ? s problems were different.
In those days social reform was a major issue, for few employers were over-zealous for
the welfare of their workers. ’ But as early as 1852 the silk firm of Courtaulds provided a hostel
for young girls, an institute with a library, an evening school and even a day nursery. A
responsible person was engaged to visit and assist sick workers and a canteen service was
instituted with hot soup at a penny a pint!
From its inception, Courtaulds have built their business on two sound principles: concern
for the quality of their products, and concern for the well-being and happiness of their workers.
This policy has made a fundamental contribution to their success.
the largest rayon manufacturers in the British Commonwealth
Distributors overseas of Courtaulds Fabrics : Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
Distributors in Australia :
victoria: (Head Office) Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., new south wales: Samuel Courtauld & Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
Qualeta House, 175 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Erik B. Milne, 172 Edward Street, Brisbane. south Australia; K. T. Flint, 178 Bundle Stieet, Adelaide.
west Australia : A. C. Mackie, Economic Chambers, William Street, Perth.
Distributors overseas of Courtaulds Rayon Yarns : Lustre Fibres Ltd., Coventry, England.
Distributors in Australia :
N.s.w. : Vance & McKee Pty. Ltd., 235 Clarence Street, Sydney. victoria : Vance & McKee Pty. Ltd., 40 William Street, Melb., C.l,


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3511
Wednesday, May 28, 1947
HANDS OUT ALL ROUND.
“We’re all getting rises, Jack. Pound a week for you, nine bob for unionists and a tenner for us.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.). Wellington.
POTTING THE OOF-BIRD.
The N.S.W, and Queensland Assembly
elections over, and “Labor” returned
with substantial majorities—of seats, not
votes —the N.S.W. Assemblymen’s Pen-
sions Bill is now in active, as distin-
guished from tentative, operation.
Introduced at the end of the first Ger-
man war, instead of at the end of the
war with the Japanese ; introduced, as it
was, without warning, and with a higher
value set on the “work” of even home-
keeping war-period politicians who had
very little to do than on the sacrifices of
war-wrecked soldiers, seamen and airmen
and of the entire body of servicemen’s
widows, this measure would have received
almost unanimous press condemnation
and brought about a change of Ministry.
But this generation is not politically-
minded, and what would have been an
act of suicide in 1920 did not, in 1946
or 1947, inspire a solitary protest at a
public meeting. The racing-mad Sydney
press, for its part, was either languidly
favorable or lukewarm. The Opposition
parties seconded their hostile vote in the
Assembly with a repeal pledge; but this
had little publicity, except in country
papers. And so on an issue which would
have been fatal in the past, and which in
existing circumstances scarcely amounted
to an issue, “Labor” succeeded.
During the election campaign, “Labor”
pleaded that a defeated “Liberal” mem-
ber, a Mr. Lethbridge, a solicitor, was
already drawing the pension—in his case,
£5 a week. Mr. Lethbridge was an
Independent for nearly all his period of
membership, eight years, and as
such voted for the Assemblymen’s
Pensions Bill, which no Liberal or
C.P. man did. This notwithstand-
ing, the Liberals in a fatuous moment
accepted his offer to resign his Corowa
seat and run for Federal Riverina
as a Liberal. It was one of the worst of
their mistakes, and they made many;
among other things it embittered their
relations with the Country party, which
had opposed Mr. Lethbridge in each of
his three successful contests and had been
beaten because he got the “Labor” vote
or preferences.
Mr. Lethbridge not only failed to cap-
ture Riverina but by standing contributed
to the defeat of a very good Country-
party candidate, Mr. Roberton ; in fact,
the “Labor” man’s majority (524) was
less than half of Lethbridge “Labor”
preferences (1145). Coming out again
for Corowa Mr. Lethbridge lost to a C.P.
man who, at the general election, got in
again by a majority of 3286 in a poll
of 11,990.
Two strenuous campaigns in a couple
of months do not suggest that Mr. Leth-
bridge is so worn out as to need, much
less deserve, a pension of £5 a week, but
he is assured of it for life or until repeal.
And there will be no repeal while “Labor”
remains in office, unless another financial
blizzard sweeps the country.
Mr. Lethbridge has now been joined
on the list of pensioners by four extin-
guished “Labor” members: Messieurs
Horsington, Sweeney (both retired),
O’Halloran and Greig (both defeated).
Having been a member for upwards of
15 years, Mr. Horsington, who was re-
fused another party nomination, gets £6
a week. As well these four “Labor”
members will draw or have drawn £7OO
or £BOO from a party provident fund
into which they and their fellows had
paid 10s. a week; to the Assembly pen-
sions fund since instituted last year they
contributed 30s. a week —all out of their
Parliamentary salary of £875 a year,
which was alleged to be far too little.
And when retired or defeated Assembly-
men die the taxpayers are to find £3 a
week for their widows. The flat rate of
pension for a serviceman’s widow is £2
10s. a week, and the widow of one of the
most famous generals in the A.1.F., who
died on service, leaving no more than the
equivalent of a minor Federal politician’s
year’s pay and perks, can claim only
£3 ss.
With five empty seats in the party
room, the winners gathered for another
distribution of spoils, in this case Minis-
terial offices, by Caucus election. There
were so many candidates, and claims and
calculations were so conflicting, that after
many hours the gentlemen had failed to
agree as to three Ministers, there being
six aspirants with the same number of
votes. In the words of “S. M. Herald,”
which promises to be as indulgent to the
new Premier as it was to his predecessor
(“Mr. McKell can fairly plead that he
has best served the State and the nation
by going along quietly”), Mr. McGirr
“dramatically broke the deadlock by
announcing that he would create a new
portfolio”—without, of course, mention-
ing, or anyone protesting, that the tax-
payers would foot the bills. Thus
heartened and speeded up, the party
chose the four Ministers, two old and two
new, in the process passing out the most
experienced member of the McKell and
McGirr Cabinets and their one Old
Digger, Mr. Dunn.
So N. S. Wales is to have 16 Ministers.
Sixteen, and, since Canberra has taken
over a great many of the duties which
State Ministers had to attend to, among
them income tax and social services,
there is not really work enough for a
dozen. One of the new men, a city
lawyer, has been named Minister of
Lands. Another city lawyer is Minister
of Conservation —or Conversation, per-
haps. A third city chap is Minister of
Immigration (there is none except for Mr.
Calwell’s “reffos”) and Tourist Activities,
thin disguise for a rank sinecure. An-
other, a former railwayman, is to be
Minister of Building Materials. Like the
first Minister of Immigration and Tourist
Activities, he begins without a department
or even a Parliamentary grant of funds,
but these things will, of course, be prodi-
gally provided until the money gives out.
While the N.S.W, “Labor” Caucus was
adding to its calls on tax-revenue —to
which, after all, there is a limit, as will
be unpleasantly realised some day when
bad times coincide with the exhaustion of
capacity to pay—the Federal “Labor”
Caucus, in which there are six Senators
and 19 Ms.H.R. from N. S. Wales, among
them the P.M., the Deputy P.M., and four
other Cabinetfeers, was engaged in the
same business, with greater effrontery
and liberality to itself. “By an over-
whelming majority” it “decided in favor
of an increase of members’ salaries from
£lOOO to £1500.” Mr. Duthie, a Tas-
manian member of the 1946 vintage,
objected that £5OO was too much. A
conscientious casuist, as it were, he argued
that members should be satisfied with
helping themselves to another £250
“while wage-pegging remains.” Other
members, unnamed in the reports, hinted
doubts on the score of wage-pegging—
that wage-pegging, maintained without
reduction of taxes, which has been the
cause of industry-shattering strikes and
which, though perforce “relaxed,” is still a
source of dangerous discontent. They
were all faced down and outvoted, though
only seven voted, seven others “abstaining.”
Nobody questioned the morality of the
projected brigandage, of which not a
shadow of a hint was given in the elec-
tion programmes and speeches served up
to the voters last September.
The Adelaide “Advertiser” has ad-
dressed itself to the subject of what
members already receive in allowances
and concessions in addition to their
£lOOO a year, and has compiled this cata--
logue:—
Gold pass for rail travel value un-
assessable. [lt is good for travel over all
the Government railways in New Zealand
as well as Australia, and almost any
“Labor” member can wangle an all-
expenses-paid trip to New Zealand. In-
deed, it would be hard to find one who
hasn’t had an overseas jaunt on the same
basis, at a minimum cost of £2OOO, apart
from, or in addition to, many days of
committee Work at £2 2s. a day.]
Stamp allowance, £BO a year.
Services of a secretary-typist, whose
salary, £2BO, is paid by the Department of
Information. Some members have relations
holding this job.
Parliament House meals at 2s. 6d.
A free air trip to and from home each
session for other than N.S.W. members
[they catch the 4.15 to Sydney on Fridays],
with a free trip monthly if a session lasts
more than two months. /
Special income-tax deduction of £250 for
election expenses.
Canberra allowance of £1 2s. 6d. per sit-
ting day; the minimum, £lOO a year for
members from N. S. Wales and Victoria;
£125 for members from other States and the
Northern Territory.
This £1 2s. 6d. a day was added to the
£lOOO p.a. in March last year. At that
time and until the strikes forced a change
of “policy,” the Chifleys insisted that
continuance of wage-pegging and sky-
high taxation was necessary to the
struggle against inflation. Trade-union
bosses, Communists and “moderates”
alike, to the grave injury of the guiltless
nation exploited the invidious and irre-
concilable difference between the Chifley -
measures for the common herd and for
members of the political aristocracy.
The Communists among them and Com-
munists in general are already exploiting
the resentment aroused among workers by
the projected misappropriation of another
£55,500 p.a. for members, and thereby
may conceivably revive their fading for-
tunes.
In other English-speaking countries
Parliament is still looked up to as a
model of probity and behavior. In this
country “Labor,” which started out with
so many fine professions, and which still
commands the devotion of worthy people,
is, in its hot pursuit of the oof-bird,
setting a rotten example to persons on
the make ; and they have never been so
multitudinous. There are rackets in
nearly everything, from car and land sales
to butcher’s meat, and from building
materials to bananas. The übiquitous
blackmarket has become a national dis-
grace. Indeed, there has never been such
a stench of corruption so widely diffused.
And lawgivers and lawcourts, seldom
reached, are held by the corrupt in almost
equal contempt.
"Indernesian" (and Other)
"Comrades."
Despite Dr. Evatt’s discounting it when
questioned in Parliament, a certain
verisimilitude makes anything but a bald
and unconvincing narrative of the report
—which he admitted has been recorded
by his Security Branch—of a scheme con-
ceived by Australian and Indonesian
Communists to establish a monopoly in
Javanese trade with Australia for a com-
pany of their own. The monopoly would
be secured by the Indonesian Govern-
ment’s refusal of licences to competitors,
and the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion’s refusal to handle other cargoes.
Admittedly the project is. a bit out of
the ordinary, but it conforms to the
general Communist design. Facts beyond
dispute are that the wharfies’ Com-
munist leaders have, in defiance
of frequent appeals from Canberra,
maintained for 18 months past their
boycott of Dutch shipping in Australian
ports, and that their assistant general
secretary has been attending an “Indo-
nesian Republic Trade-Union Congress”
in Malang, Java. At this conference a
continuance of the boycott was urged, as
also was an extension of it against Dutch
ships throughout the world.
Dr. Evatt disowned for the “Govern-
ment” any official acceptance of the
much-publicised C. H, Campbell as
“Indonesian Trade Representative in Aus-
tralia.” Why Sydney newspapers should
constantly salute him with this title is
one of the minor mysteries in the develop-
ment of the wharfies’ influence in this
Indonesian affair. Campbell is alleged
to have worked on the wharves in Sydney
—one Campbell did, but not this Camp-
bell—and, according to a Trades Hall
statement, he “supported visiting colored
seamen in their campaign for better con-
ditions” —euphemism for aiding them as
deserters from their ships. The fellow’s title
to speak for “our Indemesian comrades”
—which he does aplenty—is apparently
one he gave himself or persuaded
“Premier” Sjahrir to give him. Dr.
Evatt states that Canberra refused to
accept the “appointment,” the Dutch dis-
own it, and Sjahrir himself, in comment
a fortnight ago, said Campbell would be
“replaced as soon as possible,” adding
that “Mr. Campbell is at present studying
commercial affairs in Indonesia and
himself proposed the change.”
Nevertheless, this Campbell continues
to flit by aeroplane from “his office in
Sydney” to Singapore, and thence by
“private ’plane” to his Indonesian friends.
It was from his Sydney office —as the
wharfies’ assistant secretary, Roach, an-
nounced last month —that any decision
to lift the shipping ban would come, “on
request from the Indonesian Republican
Government.” The watersiders. Roach
added, would not accept such a request
from any other source.
It is high time that the Minister of
External Affairs cleared his own national
backyard of a nuisance and his official
authority from insolent usurpation by an
industrial union. He has the duty, also,
to free Australian traders from a criminal
ban which, according to their recent
statements, has already cost the Common-
wealth more than £3O millions’ worth of
commercial exchange with the N.E.I.
Challenged on these facts last week. Dr. “
Evatt told the House that “Aus-
tralia is anxious to resume trade with
Indonesia,” and that “a special mission
from the Departments of Supply and
Shipping, Commerce, External Affairs,
and the Commonwealth Bank is visiting
Indonesia to discuss such a resumption.”
But another special mission, from the
real controllers of our Indonesian policy,
was also on the spot last week to assist
in deciding, at the “Indonesian Republi-
can Trade-Union Congress” (called
“Sobsi”) the future direction of those
affairs which Dr. Evatt supposes to be
in his own hands. Two of the delegates,
the aforesaid Roach and Healy, (alias Mc-
Cracken), of the Brisbane Labor Council,
are Communists. Co-fraternisers at
“Sobsi” were representatives of that off-
spring of the Comintern the World Fed-
.eration of Trade-Unions, from India,
Ceylon, Burma, Malaya, the Vietnam
“Republic,” the Philippines, China,
Holland, Britain and Russia.
Campbell, now styled “Acting Indo-
nesian Trade Commissioner to Australia,”
was also there. He brought, he said,
“fraternal greetings from trade-unions in
Australia”:
We in Australia are proud of what we
were able to do for Indonesia, but we are
not satisfied with our effort. One of my
reasons for coming is to see what more can
be done by Australia. Contrary to the
wish of some trade-unionists in Europe,
Australian unions decided not to lift the
ban on Dutch ships in Australia, or to re-
lease any supposed mercy ships.
Angry but impotent noises from the
wings thereon ensued. Mr. Clarey, put-
ting off his Victorian Ministerial guise
and speaking as president of the
A.C.T.U., was heard to splutter some-
thing about “unwarranted disregard of
A.C.T.U. decisions.... disloyalty to de-
cisions of the trade-union movement,”
and then, in almost Evatt-like tones:
The A.C.T.U. is not prepared to sur-
render to people outside Australia its right
to make trade-union policy... .The full
executive of the A.C.T.U. last year recom-
mended that the ban on Dutch ships here
should be lifted, because of an understand-
ing between the Minister of External
Affairs and the Dutch Minister in Aus-
tralia. That decision has not been acted
upon by the unions which imposed the ban.
The equally ineffectual Chifleys have
been making, they aver, “constant efforts
to have the ban lifted.” To all of this
Healy—the watersiders’ general secretary,
not the Healy who became known to the
Queensland police as McCracken —re-
joins :
The continuance of the ban will depend
on a report by Mr. Roach when he re-
turns to Sydney in a fortnight.
And what did Roach say at “Sobsi”?:
American imperialism is watching In-
donesia closely. It tries to make the world
believe it wants to attack the Soviet, but
that is really a smokescreen to cover its
own drive for world conquest, which is
just as positive as the drive of Hitler and
Japan.
(It was rather awkward that a Dutch
cruiser should immediately afterwards
have arrested an American-chartered
ship running for the Indonesian “Re-
public,” and that an Indonesian battery
should have fired on the arresting cruiser
off-shore.) Roach proceeded:
In the very near future Australian
workers will also face a struggle to retain
their independence, because the Australian
Government is playing too closely with
America The Australian Labor party
now mainly represents capitalism, and the
Australian “Sobsi” has attempted to
sabotage the watersiders’ ban on Dutch
ships for the past 12 months. The ban
flowed from the rich democratic conditions
established by the Australian working class.
Australian workers will fight just as hard to
assist India or any other colonial country
as they have done for the Indonesians
through boycotting Dutch ships.
That will do for a pin-up self-portrait
of the leader of the union which, in order
(as Mr. Ben Hecht, of New York, would
say) “to make a little holiday in Com-
munist hearts,” has for eighteen months
been sandbagging Australian industry,
and has robbed the country of £3O mil-
lions’-worth of trade.
Three Netherlands delegates in turn
followed Comrade Roach to the rostrum.
Mr. Schuurhof (Netherlands Union of
Trade-Unions) warned “Sobsi” against
“sentimental decisions,” He said Socia-
lists throughout Holland wanted peace
and co-operation, and a world ban of
Dutch shipping would only be to the
disadvantage of the Indonesian people.
Mr. Kupers (World Federation of Trade-
Unions) endorsed this opinion, and said
there was no reason why the ban should
not be lifted. Mr. Blokzijl (Left-Wing
Unions) said Australian plans for ex-
tension of the boycott should be sub-
mitted to the W.F.T.-U.
Meanwhile the new Premier of East
Indonesia, the vast area outside the
Soekarno-Sjahrir “Republic,” has, with
support from his Parliament, condemned
the Australian boycott, and means to visit
Australia on his. own trade mission.
The 12 million Sundanese inhabiting
west Java have had enough of
the “republic” and have declared
for a separate State of their own
in the ultimate Union, pointing their de-
claration by evicting the republican civil
administration from Buitenzorg and plac-
ing their own regime under Dutch pro-
tection, And the Indonesian Red Cross
is appealing to U.N.O. for help in relief
of the destitution of half of Indonesia’s 70
million people. Plague and other diseases
have broken out among them and many
have died, conceivably for lack of medi-
cines and hospital requisites from Aus-
tralia.
It is a fair assumption that a lot of
the dissension in Indonesia, and even of
the Government’s “difficulties” in Can-
berra, would disappear if Mr. Chifley
and Dr. Evatt could find courage to
threaten the waterfront’s Commo leaders
with enforcement of the Crimes Act,
and mean it. They will have to reach
some decision or become figures of fun
in the sight of the world, for in a joint
letter to our Consul-General at Batavia
Dr. Van Mook and Sutan Sjahrir have
asked them to declarfc the shipping boy-
cott at an end.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"The Lucky Last."
was also the victim of a bad system; but
that the man who sold Squeers’s cane had
really acted with great indiscretion and
ought to be spoken to kindly.
Very different were the methods of
“our fathers”;
No doubt they were often narrow and
often visionary. No doubt they often looked
at a political formula when they should have
looked at an elemental fact. No doubt, in
short, they were all very wrong; and no doubt
we are the people and wisdom shall die
with us. But when they saw something
which in their eyes really violated their
morality, such as it was, then they did not
cry “Investigate.” They did not cry “Edu-
cate.” They did not cry “Improve.” Like
Nicholas Nickleby they cried “Stop! ” And
it did stop.
The main trouble with “Labor” is that
it never cries “Stop! ” to Communists and
other union racketeers and black-
marketeers, so Communists, other union
racketeers and blackmarketeers never
stop.
Where Are the Police?
“Clooter”: I confess to some bewilder-
ment upon reading in the Sydney news-
papers that the N.S.W. Police Depart-
ment is unable to attract sufficient re-
cruits to the force because the entice-
ments —in wages and hours —are not en-
ticing enough. It seems to me that ex-
amples of how service in the police can
lead to fortune, if not a modicum of
fame, are not being properly spread be-
fore possible recruiting material. Not
as a matter of policy anyway.
For instance, it was only by accident,
as it were, that the very comfortable
circumstances of Joe (Joseph Patrick)
Ryan were revealed to all and sundry.
A cynic might infer from recent pro--
ceedings of “Labor” politicians in Can-
berra and Sydney that they made a close
study of the N.S.W. Assembly polling and
arrived at the conclusion that it will be
many years before they carry the “key
State” again.
In their craze for racing and s.p,
supplements Sydney papers stopped pub-
lishing election figures before late returns
were available, thereby leaving the im-
pression that “Labor” had a towering
majority of votes, as well as seats. In
actual fact, “Labor” was well behind in
two-thirds of the 90 electorates —eight
were not contested —on total votes. Ex-
cept where “Labor” members had only
Communist opponents —everywhere the
Communists polled miserably—nearly all
the 1944 “Labor” majorities were greatly
reduced. Actually, all the big majorities
were on the Opposition side, especially
in metropolitan electorates.
There follow party results in 25 metro-
politan constituencies, Independent
figures—in no case substantial —being ex-
cluded :
Ministry. Opposition.
Ashfield 9,316 12,972
Blacktown .. .. 13,392 8,939
Bondi 12,145 10,488
Burwood 9,352 14,194
Canterbury ~ .. 13,598 10,926
Concord 12,197 10,423
Coogee 11,984 11,191
Cook’s River .. .. 13,972 7,337
Croydon 8,292 13,838
Drummoyne .. .. 10,561 11,255
Dulwich Hill .. .. 11,931 10,109
George’s River .. .. 15,645 14,236
Hornsby 6,495 16,851
Hurstville 15,113 11,319
Kogarah 14,445 10,713
Lane Cove 10,256 12,823
Manly 10,101 17,345
Neutral Bay .. .. 6,659 17,323
North Sydney .. .. 11,699 10,933
Parramatta 7,385 13,263
Randwick 13,014 9,757
Rockdale 12,305 10,146
Waverley 13,480 8,095
Willoughby .. .. 8,397 14,501
Woollahra 8,385 19,332
Results in 31 country electorates fol-
low, Independent polls again excluded:
Ministry. Opposition.
Albury 7,533 7,561
Armidale 5,984 7,596
Ashburnham .. .. 6,471 7,152
Barwon 6,948 7,086
Bathurst 8,799 6,102
Casino 5,195 9,201
Castlereagh .. .. 6,932 5,709
Corowa 4,352 7,638
Dubbo 7,204 6,391
Goulburn 7,965 7,186
Hawkesbury .. .. 10,018 9,265
Illawarra 8,918 6,025
Lachlan 5,133 6,001
Lismore 5,686 9,628
Liverpool Plains .. 6,894 5,662
Maitland 5,963 9,245
Monaro 8,723 4,302
Mudgec 6,497 5,295
Murray 4,067 6,307
Murrumbidgee .. .. 8,201 6,466
Namoi 6,631 6,307
Nepean 7,642 9,988
Orange 6,529 8,907
Raleigh 5,477 11,479
Tamworth 6,076 8,004
Temora 4,876 8,538
Upper Hunter .. .. 5,379 9,354
Wagga 9,408 5,141
Wollondilly .. .. 5,013 9,919
Yass 7,403 4,863
Young 7,599 6,801
As well the Opposition registered com-
manding majorities over “Labor”-sup-
ported Independents in four electorates
—10,486 to 4886 in Byron, 12,773 to
10,218 in Mosman, 16,097 to 7790 in
Vaucluse and 19,241 to 357J2 in Gordon.
Mr. Lang, in his “Century,” has made
no secret of his opinion that this
Assembly voting is an omen of disaster
to Federal “Labor” members Haylen,
Daly, Scully, Langtry, Fuller and others,
and to the next N.S.W. Senate ticket —
six or eight, as may be decided. And he
is no mean judge.
Missing Word.
In G. K. Chesterton’s introduction to a
reprint of Nicholas Nickleby there are
observations very pertinent to the situa-
tion in this country.
“Nickleby,” Chesterton wrote, “wan-
ders through the world ; he takes a situa-
tion as assistant to a Yorkshire school-
master ; he sees an act of tyranny, of
which he strongly disapproves. He cries
out ‘Stop!’ in a voice that makes the
rafters ring; he thrashes the school-
master within an inch of his life; he
throws the schoolmaster away like an old
cigar and he goes away. The modern
intellect is positively prostrated and
flattened by this rapid and romantic way
of righting wrongs.”
If a modern philanthropist came to
Dotheboys Hall he would petition the
Government to appoint a Royal Commis-
sion to inquire into Mr. Squeers The
Royal Commission would report about three
years afterwards and would say that many
things had happened which were certainly
most regrettable; that Mr. Squeers was the
victim of a bad system; that Mrs. Squeers
GANDHI TO THE RESCUE.
“Fierce rioting continues in India, and over wide areas in Bengal and the Punjab
administration is breaking down.”
“Now, now, wait till I read my latest non-violence proclamation .”
Joe joined as a constable at a period
when hours were longer and wages
lower than they are now. Five years ago
he resigned, after Commissioner Mac Kay
had asked whether he wanted to resign,
whereupon Mac Kay “reinstated him as
third-class sergeant as an act of grace”—
Joe had been “demoted to constable
(first-class) after a fight.” Joe remained
friends with the Commissioner, a man
of many friendships in the world in which
he moves and throws his weight about;
so much so that, in the words of counsel,
Joe “was able to approach Mr. Mac Kay
about a small matter affecting Rose’s
Restaurant ip which he” (Joe, not Mac)
“was interested.”
Rose’s is not the only enterprise in
which Joe is interested. According to
his own account he “resigned from the
force to conduct a night club called the
Roosevelt.” A resident of Bondi, he is
“a partner in Walter Hayes, general mer-
chants, a director of” (and shareholder in)
“the Parkes broadcasting station” and a
person of consequence in Peak Hill,
where he “financed my son-in-law and
daughter in the purchase of the Com-
mercial Hotel licence.”
Conceiving the idea of a sports “carni-
val” at Peak Hill, Joe contributed £lOO,
got another £lOO from his son-in-law —
who had been “successfully prosecuted
for two breaches of the Liquor Act” —
and collected £BOO more from Sydney
“sports,” mostly bookmakers. Among the
bookmakers was Joe Matthews, hailed by
the other Joe as “the ‘King of Peak
Hill,’ ” whose kingship was of no avail
when he was prosecuted for adding to his
fashionable outer-suburban home in
breach of the building regulations, which
are supposed to' protect, not bookmaker-
kings, but houseless servicemen.
The sports “carnival” seems to have
been a flop. For this Sergeant Keogh,
stationed at Peak Hill, was blamed. He
refused to permit betting on the “carni-
val,” although bookmakers were there
with bags, if not bells, on. Very
soon afterwards Sergeant Keogh re-
ceived notice of transfer to Bathurst —
to deal with an outbreak of immorality
in that place. Commissioner Mac Kay ex-
plained, to the vast indignation of police
and people in the City of the Plains,
To the Commissioner Keogh pot,
of course, friend Romano, who had
that unfortunate dispute with the Taxa-
tion Commissioner —albeit honest, “a
good general-duty policeman, an excel-
lent traffic-duty man” and almost quixoti-
cally truthful (“he will tell the truth
always, even if it is against him”), had
become “a pain in the neck.” Why “a
pain in the neck”?
He is Irish and I am Scotch; perhaps
that is one reason. Disloyal? Mo more
than any Irishman is disloyal.
Kelliher, the Digger V.C. from Eire,
was not on hapd to object. Neither were
the many Irish-Australian V.Cs. of the
last war, Larry McCarthy, Jack Carroll
and the rest, nor the shades of Finucane
and Fogarty Fegen.
The career of Sergeant Keogh, worthy
as it is by testimony of the Commissioner,
to whom he is “a pain in the neck,”
would scarcely form material attractive to
lagging police recruits. There is no occa-
sion for beating up recruits to the book-
making profession ; if there were, Clarrie
(“Spider”) Johnson’s account of himself
would bring a multitudinous demand for
licences and s.p. joints which would re-
duce the police recruiting sergeants to
confusion and baffled rage.
Clarrie, a Parkes bookmaker, is also,
on his own evidence, a moneylender.
a director of a radio station—together,
as it seems, with Joe Ryan and Spicer, a
good-as-“ Labor” M.L.C. —an investor in
a “loan investigation company” and in
three hotels, and a property-owner at
Parkes, Narromine and Peak Hill.
Clarrie has three telephones. He was at
the sports “carnival” ready to take wagers
from “the mugs”—whom presumably he
accommodates as moneylender—but Ser-
geant Keogh frustrated these financial
operations.
All this came out at an inquiry into
the transfer of Sergeant Keogh. As I
write, the report of the able and con-
scientious Judge Kirby is expected any
day. *
The Palestine Mess.
For sixteen days the Palestine business
t was debated by a special session of the
55 United Nations, in a debate described
by “S.M. Herald’s” Godfrey Blunden as
“all of it bitter and most of it confused.”
During its progress the murder gangs
in Palestine pursued their terrorist cam-
paign without abatement, and full-page
advertisements in New York papers ac-
claimed their attacks as “amazing military
feats,” U.N.O. debates as “a mock trial,”
and every injury done to Britain as
creating “holiday in Jewish hearts.”
The General Assembly spent one day
appointing a steering committee to decide
whether or not it should appoint a
special commission of inquiry, and an-
other week in debating the question
whether, and by what body, any or which
of several Jew committees should be
heard. There were the Hebrew Committee
for National Liberation and the Zionist
Organisation of New York —both sympa-
thising with the terrorists —and the Jew-
ish Agency, which tried to split British
and American official co-operation by
demanding to be heard before the full
Assembly. America rather wanted to
assist this, but the British pointed out
that there is nothing in the book of the
words about admission of non-Govern-
mental delegates. After days of so-
called debate, the Assembly compromised
by turning itself into a political com-
mittee of the whole for hearing interested
parties. London and Washington suc-
ceeded in excluding any debate on the
general Palestine issue.
But it took most of the 16 days fo
get the original British proposal adopted
—that a Commission of 'lnquiry should
study the problem and report to the
Assembly’s autumn session. The Arab
League won a point by getting a hearing
equally with the Jewish Agency, much to
the Jews’ annoyance ; but the Arab States
were incensed at the widening of
terms of investigation to include the
visiting by the Commission of displaced
persons’ camps in Europe. As finally
fashioned, the terms of reference —a
matter of more protracted wrangling—
do not specify the question of Pales-
tinian independence, which the Arabs
wanted and the Jews opposed, but, as a
sop to the Arabs, do include “considera-
tion of the religious interests of Islam,
Judaism, and Christianity.” The Com-
mission numbers 11, and Australia is on
it. So are Guatemala, Peru, and Uruguay.
The choice of India as a member suggests
malicious humor in the selectors.
Nobody expects very much from this
investigation except the delay necessary
to settle American general policy on Pales-
tine. Russia’s Gromyko, surprisingly
enough, concluded a lengthy period of
bickering by declaring that the Soviet
would support either a combined Arab-
Jewish State or partition, but partition
only if the single State should prove
impracticable.
When September comes U.N.O, will
really be holding the baby. The British
Government, having got the new nurse
to take charge, has said in the plainest
words that it will accept any decision
U.N.O. may determine, but that U.N.0.,
not Britain, will have to carry it into
effect.
Lord Lloyd, in the House of Lords,
produced the best comment. He said:
“History will write of us that our sins in
Palestine were not so much of omission as
of commission after commission.”
"Where the Apple
Reddens"...
A kindergarten “session” sponsored,
one hopes, by the Commonwealth Health
Department, with the connivance of the
entire medical profession:
Good-morning, children everywhere. This is
your kindergarten and we will now have the
story of the apple. The apple is a noble, useful
fruit, not to be laughed at, chaffed at or made
into cider unless your Daddy pays excise duty.
You may not know it, but the apple is a
historic and geographic fact. I’m sorry to
have to use such big words, but anyway the
Jewish people say that it was first used to prove
how ladies simply will not do as they’re told
and when gentlemen get into trouble they
always blame someone else.
Of course, dears, the Jewish people weren’t
the only ones to know about apples. The
Greeks used to have golden ones growing in
a place called the Hesperides and one of their
best girl athletes used to win races by throwing
apples at the boys. But then, in those days,
there were no picture papers and no matter
what sort of legs a girl had you only heard
about them —you couldn’t actually see them
like today; and so a girl had to do something
if she wanted to attract attention. Anyhow,
what I’m trying to make you see is that apples
have a real place in our history. Which re-
minds me of that—ha, ha—funny—ha, ha-
story of the little boy, quite a new story it is,
really, who was eating an apple—ha, ha—and
when asked what he intended to do with the
core —and this is the really funny part
answered, “There ain’t gonna be no core!”
Ha, ha, ha, ha, isn’t that funny? And
there is another quite funny story about a
commercial traveller with a big red apple and
a waitress on Princes Bridge, or perhaps it
was the Echuca Bridge and—er, ahem, ha, ha
—yes, well, we really haven’t time for that.
So, you see, we come right down to the
present day and we find that even our brave
soldiers knew about apples, because when they
were in the trenches up in New Guinea and
Puckapunyal and those other awful places and
their brave commanders asked them if they
were all right and could the Minister for the
Army come and see them, the brave fellows
would laugh and shout and wave their swords
and cry, “My oath. She’s apples!” Which
meant how proud they were to be fighting for
such a leader. And this brings us to our
quiz for the morning. Now everybody get a
pencil and paper and write this down. Ready?
Then here we go:—
Apples are well known in our country.
Our apple farmers grow at least one thou-
sand million apples a year. Apples cost
threepence to fivepence each in the shops.
Why is it that so many little children
never get an apple?
Now, my dtars, you can ask your daddies
and mummies to help you find the answer, but
you must be careful not to put down naughty
words if you hear them, as I’m sure you will.
There, isn’t that a good quiz? But listen,
we have obtained four apples and we are going
to give a prize of one-quarter apple to each
of the 16 best answers we receive. Good-
morning, little ones—here comes your melody
man.


fd
itaatt
■
it HUimfUff timtwoitiuj
A
mA V
m
m
6576
CARRERAS LTD.- OVER ISO YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Claude Hilton Matthews, “Labor”
M.L.A. for Leichhardt (Sydney) since
(934, is one of those rare specimens who
await the touch of greatness to bring
out their latent talents. Claude is now
Minister of Building Materials, the only
one that ever was anywhere ; and Claude
means business. At one blow Claude is
to stop strikes and go-slow, rub out black-
marketeers and Communists and stoush
the bureaucrats:
1 have been given wide powers to remove
bottlenecks in production and remove red
tape. I propose to use these powers to
provide adequate supplies of tiles, sinks,
stoves, baths, electrical equipment and other
materials.
This can only mean that Claude will set
wharves, mines, factories and transport
systems humming, where all his colleagues
in Sydney and Canberra have failed. It
will be a change to have a wonder-
worker called Claude, although there
was a great poet yclept Percy.
Moscow Radio to Norway in June,
1946 —preserved for future reference by
British Labor, and quoted last week in
a vigorous, if belated, reply to Soviet
invective:
This little country England went to war
because it and its Fascist reactionary
leaders love war and thrive on war. The
attack on Hitlerite Germany was purely
incidental.
A liar is bad enough; a clumsy liar
excites only contempt. And clumsier
liars than Communists, from top to bot-
tom, the world has never seen. Two years
ago they had a favorable audience every-
where. And everywhere they have baited
friends into bitter enmity by sheer vin-
dictive, mendacious tomfoolery and
greed.
Since Forde arrived in Ottawa he has
seldom been mentioned. On the other
hand Makin is getting plenty of pub-
licity in Washington, He is due to re-
ceive honorary degrees in New York and
Ohio, and Chicago University has re-
quested an address on “The International
of the Moral Philosophy
of Medicine,” This ought to make a
name for Australia in the diplomatic
world.
Five of the 10 Queensland Ministers
are A.V/.U. men. Though it seems a
liberal allowance, the old union was more
strongly represented in all the previous
“Labor” Cabinets back to 1915.
The R.S.L. in Victoria and South Oss
is complaining about the continued pre-
sence in Tanunda (S.A.) of Becker, re-
puted head of the Hitler organisation in
these parts before the war. Becker’s
trouble seems to be that he failed to dis-
guise himself as a “reffo” and get some
kind person in Melbourne to assure Cal-
well he was a worn-to-a-shadow victim
of Nazi persecution.
Debating the Federal Aid Roads and
Works Bill, which among other things
promises the State Governments an
annual increase of £2,500,000 —to
£6,000,000 —for roads, James, who fancies
himself as a homespun philosopher,
said “one thing necessary” was “the
widening of roads.” Surely the existing
roads are wide enough for the lux-
urious car which the “Government” has
placed at James’s service—only it and he
know why.
A Sydney paper had it that Truman
Democrats were all of a tremble because
a Henry Wallace man, one Savage, had
beaten one of their men in a Washington
State “primary”—an enlarged pre-selec-
tion ballot. It transpired that Savage had
merely regained the party nomination for
a district in which a Republican had de-
feated him at the Congressional elections
by nearly 6800 votes in a poll of 88,000.
Washington has only six of the 435
members in the House. The contest be-
tween Truman and Wallace will be de-
cided in the Atlantic States and the
Middle West—Wallace hasn’t a ghost
of a chance in the South.
A, would-be Digger-settler whose
patience is nearly exhausted has cast up
in Queensland with an application for a
block in the Dalby district —not much of
a block, he said, but it was the only thing
in sight. Since his return from the* war
he has figured in 28 land ballots in N. S.
Wales and Queensland and drawn a blank
every time. The N.S.W. outlook he has
found “dismal” and the position in
Queensland, if anything, worse —about 20
successful applicants out of 4000 and
“fewer than 12” settled. “If this process
of attrition and complacent flapdoodle
is maintained a little longer,” the
wanderer said bitterly,. “soldier-settle-
ment as a problem will be solved —it
will have ceased to exist.”
Ward’s stocks have slumped heavily
since he squibbed it on the Bretton
Woods issue—an issue of his own choos-
ing and making—and almost every time
he opens his mouth they slump still more.
For refusing Earle Page the right of
reply to a muddy attack he was snubbed
by the P.M. himself, and his reference to
Falkinder and Gullett as “burly young
men who will probably offer as recruits
for the basher gangs” was received with
such disfavor on his own side that he
elected to mumble an apology (“I wasn’t
reflecting on their war records, of which
I know nothing”) that only made his
offence fouler. Championing his Com-
munist friends he tackled Anthony, and
again got all the worse of the exchanges.
Said Anthony:
If Communism gained control in Aus-
tralia, the only person on the Government
benches who would not be liquidated would
be you. Then we would find you in your
true colors.
Rough when he reached Canberra,
Anthony has made good use of. his
opportunities, and become an effective
debater, though he needs to beware of
carrying zeal to excess.
The Bulletin has been informed from
two sources in Westralia that it was un-
just to the Nelson Liberal in saying that
the re-elected “Labor” member had “very
weak opposition.” The Liberals are satis-
fied that their man was a good candidate
who will do better when he is better
known —he was a comparative newcomer
—and when the Nelson population re-
turns to normal. It was swelled before
the election by an influx of strange
unionists at least equal to the “Labor”
majority. They arrived under engage-
ment to the “Government” in time for
enrolment.
What’s the use of sending Dedman to
Geneva to argue with the Americans
against lifting their wool tariff 50 p.c.,
as has been done —provisionally —in the
House? They will only persuade him,
by dint of his own arithmetic, that it
will mean 50 p.c. more in the pockets of
our woolgrowers.
About the only wise thing done by the
N.S.W. Liberals in their Assembly elec-
tion preparations was to run two candi-
dates for Hornsby: Storey, the sitting
member, who had come over to (Jiem
from the Independents, and Blaxland, a
promising young ex-serviceman. To-
gether they polled 16,851 votes against
the “Labor” man’s 6495 and figured in the
last count, Storey winning on preferences.
The example was lost on the Libs, in
Evelyn (Vic.), who have discarded ex-
Speaker Everard, M.L.A. for Evelyn since
1917. The election or rejection of an
old member is a matter for his constitu-
ents, not for any small band of officials.
Blocks of flats are among the McGirr
building projects. One, if was stated be-
fore polling day, for the instruction of
publicans and shopkeepers as well as
hopeful tenants, is to go up in North
Sydney, where Geraghty’s majority was
dangerously reduced. Queensland
“Labor” won’t have anything to do with
them, and its Colin Clark has given the
reasons:
Flats are unsuitable for families with
children.
Compared with dwellings, they require
stronger walls, deeper foundations, larger
plumbing and electricity connections, and
often lifts.
The Manchester City Council found that
a three-bedroom house could be provided
at two-thirds the cost of a three-bedroom
flat.
Very good reasons, too ; and the able
young Under-Secretary of the Labor De-
partment had another shot in his locker:
“The people behind this propaganda for
flats are landowners and financiers
anxious to keep up land values.”
The new Westralian Government is
anxious to write off £975,000 due by
farmers under the Rural Relief Act, 1935,
but Federal “Labor” refuses to assist.
Yet it is squandering the public funds in
scores of less worthy ways. It has even
subsidised suppliers of Sydney milk,
when Sydney “Labor” had more easy
money than it knew how to spend.
Ashley has “warned” union bosses on
the N.S.W. coalfields that if they “cannot
enforce discipline, action will be taken.”
Poor Curtin issued much the same
warning five years ago. The only
“action” taken was against a parcel of
wheelers and the like, who were passed
into the army, and passed out again after
a pleasant paid holiday. Truman had
other ideas, and as a result the U.S.A. is
getting all the coal it wants..
In reply to one of the S.A. Senators
Ashley threatened “nationalisation” of
the iron and steel industry. How about
“nationalising” the bookmaking industry
instead? The Ashleys know a great deal
more about bookmaking than about iron
and steel production, and profits on
capital are vaster beyond all comparison.
When Professor David Jones, the Welsh
expert who has been looking into Aus-
tralia’s coal resources, saw what Queens-
land had in that line he couldn’t refrain
from audibly wondering why those who
drew up his itinerary had put Queensland
last. The millions of tons lying just
under the ground in seams 50ft. to 90ft.
thick at Blair Athol impelled him .to say
that “Queensland will become the lead-
ing coal State in the Commonwealth
when its resources are tapped.” Why
they haven’t been tapped long since is a
question to which there are various
answers, but Queenslanders who know
what, the SA. Government did with a
field much poorer and harder to get at
oughtn’t to stop asking their Mr. Hanlon
about it. In the parlous state to which
steelworks, gasworks, electricity plants
and factories have been brought by de-
pendence on N.S.W. coal, it is a case
for energy, for audacity even, and not
only Queensland but the rest of Aus-
tralia will be the gainer.
There are no sillier yobs in these parts
than Communists. Whispering and mut-
tering, as their London congeners did
during the blitz, and doing a surreptitious
midnight job with a special issue of
“stickers,” they tried to foment ill feeling
against U.S. Task Force 38. They suc-
ceeded only in working up a special
demonstration of friendship for the
Americans, officers and ratings. Rear-
Admiral Ginder replied with an invita-
tion to a return visit from the R.A.N.,
and it is an invitation that must be
accepted.
Earle Page’s plea for a £25,000,000
food gift to Britain was a feature of last
week’s debates. The ex-Priminister spoke
not only with knowledge of the supply
situation and outlook in Australia and
of the meat- and butter-starved British
nation’s requirements, but with warm
feeling, here comparing, altogether to
his advantage, with the aridities of
Beazley and Falstein. There is some
stuff in Beazley, but it is not enough for
an aspiring statesman to have a mind.
He must never neglect the resources of
the human heart.
Referring to the uranium deposits at
Mt. Painter, Playford said his State pro-
posed to reserve them as a source of
power. Thereupon Chifley fished out
an Atomic Energy (Control of Materials)
Bill and announced that it established
Canberra’s right to control the deposits.
“Control” has become a word of fear
to most people, but at Canberra it is still
as magic as those casements “opening on
the foam of perilous seas.”
The dreadful threat has been issued
that Canberra “will control and direct
hospital services through the agency of
State Governments,” which are short of
hospitals, equipment, staffs and every-
thing, especially for t.b. cases. This con-
trol and direction are to form part of
the social-services scheme, expected to
cost £72,000,000 for the financial year
beginning on July I—equivalent1—equivalent of the
entire Commonwealth expenditure in
1934-35, excluding £4,000,000 fpr special
farm-relief. The “Labor” plan is to give
everyone “social services” except those
who provide their own. Finance will be-
come increasingly difficult if population
trends go on. Last year 24 p.c. of the
population was under 15 (35.1 p.c. in
1901), 7.8 p.c. was 65 and upwards (4 p.c.
in 1901) and children per family, 4.05 p.c.
in the first five years of Federation, had
slumped to *2.18 p.c. in the five years to
the end of 1940, But after “Labor” the
deluge.
N.S.W. Government has revealed plans
for opening up new coalmines in Burra-
gorang Valley and elsewhere to give an
estimated production of 3,500,000 tons a
year. The best brains of the Miners’
Federation are now working out their
estimated non-production figures for the
new mines.
Ashley again—-he told the Senate
last week that until Dutch and Indo-
nesians agreed on their attitude to the
Australian watersiders’ ban on Dutch
ships the matter was no concern of his
Government. They have agreed, so
Ashley will now have to think up a new
one beginning with the eternal “Labor”
formula “It’s a matter f0r”....
Without quoting Chifley’s declaration
that Australia “has done all it could”
for foodless Britain, the chief inspector
of Victorian butter factories has pointed
out that, because of unrestricted sale of
table cream, Victoria’s butter exports
are being reduced by 390 tons a month.
British people get two ounces of butter
a week. Table cream would seem like
the dream of a madman to them.
While the building industry in N.S.W.
is crying out for the stuff, 3,000,000 super,
feet of sawn timber and 2200 logs are
stacked on Cairns (N.Q.) wharves await-
ing ships to take them to Sydney. Slow
turn-round of ships as a result of the
crazy philosophy of Communist-controlled
wharfies and congestion of wharf space
through malicious strikes by the same
gentry are the main reasons for the ludi-
crous situation. Borers are reported to
be playing Old Harry with the stacked
timber. There are pests everywhere—
borers and Red-ants in the North; Red-
ants down South.
Queensland Opposition-leader Nicklin
intends to press for a full inquiry into
the state of the Queensland rolls.
Taking the estimated population of his
State and applying the adult percentage
shown at the last census and deducting
official figures for disenfranchised per-
sons —insane, unnaturalised, and convicted
persons undergoing sentence —he arrived
at a figure of 654,000 people eligible for
enrolment. Total number on the election
rolls was 697,205. Nicklin wants to know
where the extra 43,205 came from. He
also expresses himself as convinced that
there were considerable plural voting, im-
personation and manipulation of postal
votes. Years ago the Queensland Elec-
toral Act provided for a quarterly revision
of district rolls. “Labor” altered that,
and now the obligation is on a dead man
to prove he is no longer alive.


FIRST PATIENT.
“The National Medical Service will be introduced before long, and it is persistently reported that ‘Mo’s’ double, Dr. Gaha, will be Director-General."
“Strike me lucky, there’s a malignant growth on your foreign policy.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Pitt St,”: When Joe Lyons made his
last solemn journey through Sydney
I was with a friend in Park-
street to witness, as one among thou
sands, the passage of the cortege. As
we pushed into the crowd we encountered
a bewildered pair of ladies, mother and
daughter, and the elder of them looked
at my friend with a sort of exasperated
annoyance and asked, “What is wrong?
Has there been an accident or something?”
We were too stricken with astonishment
to satisfy her curiosity. Many times since
we have recalled the incident as an ex-
ample of how people can live in complete
ignorance of what is going on around
them. There are others. I was unable
to witness the march of the American
members of U.S. Task Force 38 through
Sydney last Wednesday, but my friend
was there. He swears that he stood on
the G.P.O. steps beside a young man,
well-dressed and apparently intelligent,
who watched the march in silence and
then, unable to Contain his enthusiasm,
turned to my friend and burst out, “By
ghost, the Japs had better look out now! ”
“Quilliam-strefct”: An unusual job fell
to the lot of a team of Adelaide Tram-
ways Trust bus drivers. They were sent
to Sydney to bring back three double-
decker buses, the first of a batch of 15
to be added to Adelaide’s bus fleet. The
new buses are a composite job—British
Daimler chassis, Gardner Diesel engines
and bodywork by a Sydney firm.
Mechanics accompanied the drivers on
the 1070 miles passengerless trip, but the
buses got through without giving any
trouble. The long journey recalls a device
resorted to by a private bus company in
Adelaide many years ago to get around
S.A.’s first Transport Strangulation Act.
An efficient bus service which operated
down the Port Road, then on to the
Semaphore, was marked for the chopper,
as it competed with trains and trams.
Some shrewd brain converted it into an
inter-State service and put it, for a time,
outside the provisions of the Act. The
buses ran their normal schedule at normal
fares, but all tickets were made out to
Murrayville (Vic.). To accommodate
narks who wanted their full ride a service-
car ran from Adelaide to Murrayville
once a week, and the charge for excess
luggage was sufficiently high to choke off
would-be trippers. It worked for a while,
but the tramways won in the end.
♦ * * *
“Macnell”; Water-wading Ward will
be gratified to learn that at the moment
in his tropical Utopia the Port Moresby
“Simon Legree” exploiters are reduced,
through failure of shipping, to smoking
trade tobacco. Any people looking less
like a down-trodden race than the Papuans
I’ve yet to see. A group of them are
loading a merchantman astern of us. I
notice two points of difference between
them and the wharfies down south —they
are working like Trojans and they are
laughing.
* * * *
“Silyius”: “Loc’s” reference to a
“midnight flit” from an American hotel
by means of a rope (B, 7/5/’47) only
goes to show there is nothing new
under the sun. A young jockey once
essayed the same feat from a pub at
Glenelg (S.A.), He went a step further
and had a pony harnessed to a four-
wheeler utility into which an accomplice
was to lower his suitcase whilst he him-
self descended per rope. Unfortunately
the suitcase came untied and landed in
the wagon with a bump, so scaring the
pony that he bolted, taking part of the
fence with him and leaving the “hoop”
to argue it out with an irate publican.
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: Tolerated by “Labor” Gov-
ernments, the Kalgoorlie s.-p. bookies
and the man who runs the “game” find
that all is not now well since the C.D.L.-
Lib, Coalition crowd have taken over in
Westralia. Under the “Labor” regime the
virtually untrammelled traffickings of the
bookies and two-up barons caused indig-
nant outbursts from the Opposition
benches, especially from Mrs. Cardell-
Oliver, the Liberal member for Subiaco.
Now with her party in power she has
been responsible for an all-out “blitz” on
what were to her the menaces of
“fields” society. Recently the Kal-
goorlie “game” was raided, the owner
fetching 20 quid, and the man who picks
up the pennies £l5. Raided on the
same day were s.-p. joints, the cops
going for the head men, and not the
“stooges” whose practice it was to dummy
for them and be fined for “obstructing
the traffic,” If this continues we’ll have
the pubs observing Sunday closing,
* * * *
“Tuart”; Referring to the “£700,000
paid out to the indirect descendants of
“You’ve got a good headline here”
Lord Nelson,” subject of a debate in the
Commons, a “Nineteenth Century and
After” man has this note:
Fortunate that Shakspeare’s last descend-
ant was Lady Barnard of Abingdon. Col-
laterals of the great lineage exist still, I
believe, in Australia. I have not heard
that they claim rights in the performances
of Shakspeare’s plays. Certainly they have
no pensions.
Are there “collaterals of the great line-
age” in Australia? There may be in Tom
Playford’s State; long ago a William
Shakspeare was president of the Com-
mercial Travellers’ Association there. I
remember suggesting wnat I thought an
appropriate quotation for his letter-
paper :
Time hath, my lord, a wallet on his back,
Wherein he puts alms for oblivion.
He did not acknowledge it; probably
because he never read the rag in which
it appeared,
♦ * » *
“Ad Rem”; Service dentists (B.
14/5/’47)? A flight-lieutenant drilling at
one of my bicuspids found it nfccessary to
call his O.C. into consultation. After ex-
pressing his sentiments on the current
operation, the boss peered into my chasm,
perused my dental card and then wanted
to know the whereabouts of my four-
toothed, R.A.A.F. issue denture. I ex-
plained that as the denture had been
forced on me against my will, and as it
didn’t fit properly and I was compelled
to roll it around my mouth with my
tongue out of sheer irritation and, further,
that as none of the teeth on it met up
with any on my lower jaw, it was now
languishing in my kitbag. “What!” he
thundered, “Don’t you know your Air
Force Orders? If you don’t wear your
plate you must carry it about with you
in a tin. Why, man, if you were sud-
denly transferred to the war zone you
wouldn’t be dentally fit! ”
* * * *
“P.M.”: The nebulous persons who
calculate the basic wage—on which
I’d like to see Chif. and some
of his minions exist for a few
weeks—will have to do some rapid
recalculation if they study the basic re-
quirements of life as detailed by a gent.
haled before a Sydney Court charged
with stealing. His rather mixed
haul ran to a shoe-cleaning outfit, a shav-
ing brush and razor, three tomatoes, an
apple and a bottle of methylated spirits,
Before being sent back to quod he ex-
plained to the S.M.: “I have just come
out of jail. I was hungry, thirsty and
dirty. I wanted the shoe-cleaning outfit
to clean my shoes, the shaving brush and
razor to shave my face, the tomatoes,
apples and metho. to eat and drink.”
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: Another family business
to become an impersonal company is
Bird’s, of custard-powder fame, ac-
quired by General Foods Corporation,
The formula for this custard has
been in use for three generations
of the family, although the scientist
inventor, Alfred Bird, did not turn it to
commercial account. His wife was unable
to eat anything made with eggs, so he
provided a substitute, designed only for
his family and a few friends. The
second Alfred Bird developed the
idea and gained a title; the third
of the dynasty, Sir Robert, has carried
on the business till now.
* * * *
“Xenexer”: In army workshops there
were at times so many officers that the
C.O. had to be a skilled strategist to find
an occupation for them. At an army
workshop in Sinai a loot had been ap-
pointed Officer in Charge of Mechanical
Drawings, complete with office, furniture,
filing cabinet, clerk and paper. A cap-
tured Itie lathe required a new step
pulley and the old one had been taken
to the machine-shop as a sample. When
the turner commenced work on the new
one he was stopped. The old pulley had
to be sent to the O.C. Mechanical Draw-
ings, He measured it, then made a draw-
ing, complete with filing number. A
print was made and given to the turner,
who went to the scraphfeap, resurrected
the broken pulley and made another to
the same measurements. Officialdom was
satisfied when the drawing was returned
to be filed by the clerk.
* * * ♦
“Horseface”; I nominate No. 17
Battery, First A.1.F., for the most original
piece of camouflage in the Kaiser’s war.
In the Tel El Kebir camp, after the
Evacuation, the officers got in a G.S.
wagon full of kegs of beer for a shivoo.
As the wagon passed our tents one of the
kegs mysteriously disappeared. The camp
was combed for hours by every man
available, but not a sign of the keg was
discovered, and the search was aban-
doned, Then our mob had a night of it
with the contents of the kfeg, which had
been camouflaged by placing one of the
new lidded sanitary boxes inside the
hessian screen over it and closing the lid.
* * * *
“Viz”: “Eureka’s” par. (B. 7/5/’47)
about old buildings not considered worthy
of preservation leads to the hope that
they will at least be properly photo-
graphed before the wreckers have their
way. Collections of photographs stored
in the Mitchell Library would provide
some consolation for those who value
completeness in our historical records.
Completeness in these matters is not one
of our strong points ; there are numerous
gaps in the history of all our country
towns and districts, most of them caused
by those zealous souls whose idea of
“tidying up” is to throw all the family
papers into a heap and burn the lot.
Ophir, the scene of our first gold rush,
is a case in point. Hargraves, Lister and
the Toms are given all credit for finding
“payable gold” in 1851, but a nugget was
found there in the ’4o’s by a shepherd
whose name has been forgotten. In
those days the place was called Yorkey’s
Corner after another shepherd, a York-
shireman, who made it his headquarters.
No one now knows Yorkey’s real name.
* * * *
I was outside Pretoria jail
when the volley was fired. “The
Breaker” and Captain Handcock died like
heroes, refusing to be blindfolded. Cap-
tain W. J. Press, of Adelaide, was with
them throughout the previous night and
drank a last toast with them. At sunset
several Australians gathered at the jail
gates and claimed the bodies. The writer
was one of the bearers to> the graveside,
and we gave them a decent burial in the
Pretoria cemetery, a clergyman officiat-
ing. Later we subscribed to a fund
organised by the chief of the Pretoria
fire brigade and erected two crosses on
the graves.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Tennyson said that “his
s’s hissed at him like snakes” (R.P.
14/5/47), and I suppose most people
would agree that the letter is one of the
least euphonious in the alphabet. I re-
member James Edmond once writing a
long par. in The Bulletin on what he
called its sinisterness, stuffed with ex-
amples. Still, there have been poets who
could get away with it. Is there any
single verse in Browning’s multifarious
works more often and more appreciatively
quoted than this one? :
The year’s at the spring,
And day’s at the morn;
Morning’s at seven
The hillside’s dew-pearled;
The lark’s on the wing;
The snail’s on the thorn;
God’s in his heaven —
All’s right with the world!
Thirteen s’s in eight lines!
* * * *
“Eureka”: 1 wonder how much
revenue is lost to the State by the misuse
of duty stamps. A typist who worked for
a “foreign” gentleman told me that be-
fore his old receipts were destroyed the
duty stamps were soaked off, so that they
could be used again. Most duty stamps
are carelessly cancelled in such a way that
they might easily be used over and over
again. A remedy seems to be to alter
the color or design at regular intervals,
and make it obligatory to use only
current duty stamps.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: During a recent “session” of
the Quiz Kids a very old fallacy was
repeated by the quizmaster. It was given
out as a fact that a small parcel of land
at La Perouse on Botany Bay belonged
to France. This land certainly does not
belong to France, though the story that
it does has been told and written many
times. In 1917 the N.S.W. Government
actually prepared a bill for the purpose
of presenting it to France as a gesture
of goodwill, and as a token of the bond
between Australians and French fighting
side by side. The bill was never passed
because it was pointed out to Premier
Holman that too many difficulties and
complications would arise if a piece of
land, however small, within the confines
of Australia, became foreign territory.
For example, the land would be exempt
from all Australian laws ; a criminal, by
vaulting the fence around Father
Receveur’s grave, could defy the police
until extradition papers were taken out.
* * * *
“Mullum”: Americans have formed a
National Society to Discourage the Use
of the Name Smith for Purposes of Hypo-
thetical Illustration. They don’t seem to
have met with much success. If they had
the Joneses would have formed a similar
club, also the Whites and Robinsons.
* * * ♦
“Salvage”: I see the windows are full
of aluminiumware again. During the
war our town, like every other one, was
urged to be patriotic and tip out all its
aluminium kitchenware to make aero-
planes. After a word with the wife, who
watched the looting of her cupboards
with tearful eye, I trundled a sackful of
aluminium saucepans, jugs, kettles, basins,
dishes and so on to the salvage depot.
There some of it was violently hit with
hammers to make it non-recognisable—
a large section was left just as it was.
Later the wife' saw one of her saucepans
in a silver craft that flew over our house,
so she declared. I hadn’t the heart to
tell her that the stuff was- still lying in
its sack wrappings, until one day the
paper had an intimation that the alu-
minium drive had been a bit prema-
ture, and that officials boosting it had
made an error. The other day a friend who
lived near a big air station on the main-
land where there was also a fair-sized
dump revived the matter of the wasted
kitchenware by saying “Aluminium!
Why, you should have seen the amount
of it that was just thrown out on the
dump.” Still, I suppose someone bene-
fited by the effort, even though the wife,
like a good many other wives, gazes re-
proachfully at the mixed outfit which-re-
places her former glistening stuff.
WELL-TIMED.
“One thing is certain; if the next elections were
six months away instead of nearly 30, nothing would
have been done.”
— “S.M.H.” on the Federal salaries grab.
If you’d be springing something unexpected
On fellow-men in any place or clime,
There’s one precaution shouldn’t be neglected,
You’ve got to hit upon the proper time.
A point on which they’re noticeably dabs,
Our legislators bent on money grabs.
To blare, wi(h an election in the offing,
Their projects for a thumping rise in screw
Would start a lot of sneering and of scoffing
And stinging criticisms not a few
Directed at such too-outspoken souls,
And bound to be reflected at the polls.
It wouldn’t do. You’ll see upon reflection
How foolish it would be the beans to spill
That might upset your chances of election.
The right procedure is to wait until
You’re safely in and can be sure the day
Of reckoning, should it come, is far away.
Offences rank enough to smell to Heaven,
Which moralists would acidly define
And pillory as ramps in Forty-seven
May be forgot (who knows?) in Forty-nine,
Or viewed as maladies that can’t be cured
And consequently have to be endured.
There is a time to laugh, a time for crying,
Some poet tells us in an artless rhyme,
A time for growing old and one for dying.
And, if it’s chosen cutely, there’s a time
When Labor lords can vote themselves a bit
More salary—and get away with it.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Zake”: The supplement of my Sun-
day rag. written in the new journalese,
liberally subscribes to Pooh-Bah’s dictum
about detail “adding verisimilitude to an
otherwise bald and unconvincing nar-
rative,” particularly in its rehashing and
padding of cabled items. Thus a state-
ment by, say, Britain’s Foreign Secretary
will be quoted with a preface like “Ponti-
ficated beefy, heavy-jowled, lank-haired,
hammer-toed, Soviet-hating Ernest Bevin
or “Quipped sloping-shouldered,
ageing, lantern-jawed, big-eared, greying
General George Marshall.... ” In-
tended to stun the reader with the special
knowledge enjoyed by the writer —whose
stuff is usually tinged with Left-Wing
propaganda—of the personal idiosyn-
crasies, habits and physical condition of
the man under discussion, the tripe is
mostly as colorless as it is unpalatable.
But the choicest bit was a “detailed”
description of a 75-year-old diplomat as
“balding, bespectacled.” I should like to
meet any septuagenarian diplomat who
sports a full thatch and reads without
glasses.
♦ ’ ♦ %
“Laetitia”: The contention that the
Melbourne City Court was violating its
own statutorily defined procedure (B.
7/5/’47) reminds me of a stipendiary
magistrate’s sitting in a s.-w. Queensland
town about 20 years ago. During legal
argument between counsel involving
competency and compellability of a wit-
ness, there came an intervention from
another solicitor, whose shirt-sleeved and
slightly bibulous appearance in the public
gallery betokened his non-engagement in
thfc case. In no time he was leaning over
the magistrate’s shoulder, and darting and
returning via the doorway leading to the
adjoining C.P.S. office with tomes for the
assistance of His Worship. Then the
S.M., in sudden realisation of the highly
non-official standing of his honorary
“Ah, ah, madam! Mustn't touch!”
adviser, waved him off the bench,
thereby restoring a more formal but de-
cidedly less exhilarating atmosphere to
the hearing.
* * * »
“0.W.W.”: Well known to every Kiwi
who served in the Middle East, the Maadi
Tent, about half a mile from N.Z. base
camp, was easily one of the best soldiers’
centres in Egypt. Run by women volun-
teers from Maadi village, in six years its
profits amounted to £13,000. At a wind-
up meeting held last December it was de-
cided to divide the money for the benefit<
of servicemen who used the tent. As a re-
sult £7500 N.Z. has been sent to Governor-
General Freyberg to be distributed
among disabled-soldiers’ institutions.
* * * *
“Melton”: The lasses settled them-
selves beside me in the tram ; one began
to click a serenade to winter with a pair
of knitting needles, and her companion
produced a Crime Club book, flicked over
the pages till she reached the end of the
book and started to read. Her mate
gently upbraided her. “You’ll spoil a
detective yarn by reading the last
first.” “Yes, I know,” admitted the other
with a sigh. “But I have to. Otherwise
I’d be scared I’d hate the wrong guy right
through the book.”
* * « *
“Silvius”: Yes, a “boilermaker” is a
nobbier of whisky neat followed point-
blank by a beer chaser, with no interval
for even a breath in between. At least, it
was so in Sydney in 1936, where I was
introduced to it by some Yank speedway
riders, it being their favorite beverage
when relaxing. As to the origin of the
name I haven’t a clue. I heard infrequent
references to a “boilermaker” from
American airmen in Sydney as late as
1944, but as to its effects!
* ♦ * •
“Bagot”: Some blokes have queer rea-
sons for signing the pledge. A chap I
know had for years been a heavy beer-
drinker, particularly at week-ends, when
he thought nothing of bowling over a
dozen bottles. One Sunday he imagined
he noticed an unusual flavor in the supply
bought the previous day. Next night he
mentioned the matter to the barman, a
jocular soul who, with a wink to a
couple of other customers, explained that
the complainant had apparently drunk
part of a consignment the brewery was
frantically trying to recall; reason being
that a drowned cat had been found in a
vat from which a large number of bottles
had already been filled and dispatched.
That was 11 years ago, and my friend
hasn’t touched the stuff since.
* * * *
“W.D.,” his experience:
Some time ago I read that the N.S.W. Rail-
ways Commissioner had plans for establishing
a State airline. Unless he intends to give pas-
sengers much better service with his ’planes
than he does at present with his trains, he’d
better forget the whole idea.
I arranged to send my two children up to
Rylstone for the school holidays and naturally
wanted them to be as comfortable as possible
on the journey. Several days beforehand my
wife went up to book their seats. She was
told that all first-class seats were booked out,
but that if she bought unbooked first-class
tickets there would be no difficulty in getting
satisfactory seats when the time came. When
the time did come we spent an hour longer
than necessary on bleak Central station through
the booking clerk giving us the wrong departure
time, and then found there was only one first-
class carriage on the train • and it was fully
booked.
Porters told me another would be hooked
on before the train left, so with other pas-
sengers we hung around on the platform until
10.35 p.m., 10 minutes before departure time.
A carriage was put on all right—an old box-
type second-class car. In the rush I had to
put my youngsters in the compartment next to
the engine—about the worst position on the
train, although I had paid, for decent accom-
modation and my wife had been more or less
guaranteed it.
After a long search I found the chief porter
and complained. He told me there were some
seats set aside for unbooked firsts in one of
the second cars, and reluctantly led me to it.
It was full. 'Time for departure was near, so
I rushed back to the head of the train just in
time to see my children start off on their
uncomfortable journey.
* * * *
“Edgeways”: In questioning “Niloc’s”
duck storv (B. 7/5/’47) “M 8” has surely
overlooker the reason for the birds’ con-
sternation, as originally told: “a ’plane
appeared and flew backwards and for-
wards over the marsh.” The spectacle of
a pilot putting his aircraft into reverse,
like a motor-car, would startle more
stolid beings than ducks. Except in auto-
gyros and helicopters, this achievement
has eluded aircraft designers. Nearest
instance which comes to mind is of the
Tiger Moth which flew backwards for
20 miles on a trip from Point Cook to
Seymour (Vic.) some years ago. But
that was because the Moth was facing
into a headwind whose speed was greater
than its own.
,-. . . .
tainer” : The pigeons and other birds,
just like the ducks (B. 14/5/’47), have
accepted roaring ’planes as one of the
ordinary unharmful ingredients of life,
“Aim the cork at the blonde, Waiter."
and now take little notice when they pass.
When pioneer Bill Hart flew his ’plane
over Randwick racecourse the agitation
of the pigeons, flying in panic in all
directions to escape this monstrous hawk,
was amusing ; and the city birds gave ex-
hibitions of panic whenever later ’planes
flew over their haunts. Now they are in-
different, just as horses and cattle, which
used to stampede at the sight of a car,
accept them with complacency. Maybe an
instinct about what is dangerous and
what may be accepted as safe is inherited
from the parents, although the example
of the parents in remaining unperturbed
at the approach of these terrifying con-
traptions is a more likely explanation,
* * * *
“Jasby”: Despite his many tight-rope
crossings of Niagara Falls (B. 21/5/’47)
Blondin lived beyond the normal span
and died in his bed at 73, He retained his
nerve and marvellous sense of balance to
the end ; his last tight-rope performance
was given in Belfast less than a year be-
fore he died. Most of the dare-devils
who went over Niagara the other way—
over the brink in a barrel—weren’t so
fortunate. The craze probably owed its
inspiration to Blondin’s feats, but most
who attempted it were dashed to death.
One of the exceptions was Bobby Jones,
who undertook the nightmare ride more
than once. Years later he was walking
along a street in Napier (M.L.) when he
trod on a piece of orange peel, slipped
and broke his leg. Blood poisoning set
in and he died in hospital.
* * * *
“Ceg”; Hoarded notes? White-ant
experts, prowling round under roofs and
under old floor coverings, sometimes come
across planted money. When an ant-ex-
terminator took up linos which had been
down for very many years he found about
£lOO of the old notes previously issued
by trading banks. The property had
changed owners and tenants many times,
and it would be a nice point to decide
who was entitled to the find.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: In the U.S.A., where these
big- stories usually start, there has been a
move to have “The Merchant of Venice”
removed from the school lists. Jewish
objections were alleged ; but I doubt if
they are general. Australia’s own Alfred
Dampier, who was one of the best Shy-
locks, always declared that Shylock was
the “only gentleman in the play” ; and
any actor in that master part who has
failed to give his audience sympathy with
the character when the old man, waging
a war against prejudice in his own way,
is broken in the last act has failed. In
the Yiddish theatres of Europe, which
were very strong before Nazism stepped
in, and were fond of Shakspeare, “Shy-
lock” was always regarded as a good
test for a star. It was while Maurice
Moscovitch (one of the many Jews who
have been glad to impersonate Shylock
before English audiences) was playing the
part in Yiddish in an East End theatre
that an entrepreneur made him an offer to
play in English; and Moscovitch, having
to learn it in an unfamiliar tongue,
was ready within a fortnight. It was a
remarkable start to his long career as an
English-language actor. It’s safe to say
that a vote amongst educated Jews would
oppose any ban of this most staged of
all Shakspearean plays.
“2315”: Elections are . not worth the
effort these days ; they’re too tame. When
the Westgate line was being built as a
branch off the Charleyille-Cunnamulla
railway a train of gravel-hoppers was
provided for the navvies to ride into
Charleville to vote. My mate and I took
in the sights, which included a scion of
a squatter family riding his horse into
the pub, where it drank beer from a dish
for **! e edification of the voters; a beer-
drinking competition, in which the con-
testants faced two rows of pots set
out on the counter and sank them
with speed one after the other ; a fight in
the main street, where we saw a man on
the ground covering his face with his
drms while his opponent booted him
heartily with footgear that had hobnails
antf* toeplates. The crowd barracked
for its fancy and the referee explained
that it was all fair —Lancashire style,
with the odds on the man on the
ground returning the compliment in the
next round. And a brass band played
beneath carbide torches at one candi-
date’s meeting. On the way home the
navvies picked up a dissentient by the
heels and the shoulders and, strengthened
by good red rum, threw him out of the
hopper into the night without bothering
about his future.
* * * *
“Melton”: The silver parlor coach;
deposited its complement of tourists at
Echo Point in the Blue Mountains, and
the trippers made their way to the look-
out. Most were prepared to enthuse at
the view, but there was one grim realist
among them. He shrewdly calculated the
sheer drop to the tree-tops in the valley
below, and announced in a stage whisper,
“What a beaut spot for a bilious attack! ”
* * * *
“Ex-1.C.0.F. goes shooting:
Fukimoto is a small village deep in the
mountains near the borders of Okayama and
Hyogo Prefectures, site of a land reclamation
project. The sweet potatoes of the newly-
settled farmers, now almost ready to be har-
vested, were being eaten by wild boars. It was
not possible for the Japanese to destroy them,
as the only hunting weapons they had been
allowed to keep were fit only for killing birds
and small game. Destroying larger game had
become one of the most pleasant chores of
the Occupation Force and this time it was
30 Battery’s turn. The schoolhouse was full
of officers and men.
Breakfast over soon after dawn, we went off
in trucks to join the beaters. At the assembly
point there were about three hundred men and
boys, and two dogs. Dogs are now rare in
Japan, for though, as an official said, “The
Japanese people love much dogs,” most of them
had been eaten during the war. Three or four
of the older men sported dirty white armbands
on which were printed the words “Licensed
Hunter” in English and Japanese. They were
armed with antiquated shotguns and had in
their belts cartridges, apparently home-made.
The country consisted of a number of roughly
parallel ravines, at the bottom of each of which
a small stream splashed its way to the river.
Generations ago peasants had built ricefields at
the bottom of the ravines and had excavated
level plots out of the mountain sides above
the level of the irrigation channels. Above
these plots of tobacco or sweet potatoes, tea
bushes or bamboo or kiri trees utilised any soil
that remained. ' Above these again began the
scrub, which clothed the hillsides to the summits.
In the scrub, the inhabitants declared, the boars
dwelt.
The guns placed along the summits, the
beaters, with some guns as cover, were to
advance through the scrub. After beaters and
guns had joined, the guns were to take post
on a path used by collectors of forest mush-
rooms and fungi leading to the foot of the next
ravine; the beaters were to advance downhill
through the scrub.
During the whole morning only two shots
rang out. Back at the assembly point about
noon one sergeant claimed to have heard a pig
squealing in the scrub and had fired in hope.
The rest of us had been mocked by spoor
alone.
The chief of the Land Reclamation Bureau
of the Prefecture gave us a dinner. When all
were seated, Jap fashion, he rose to make a
speech of welcome. “This dinner,” he said,
“is to show our gratitude to the officers of the
Occupation Force who assisted to drive away
the boars from Fukimoto. I wish to apologise
for the cowardice of the Japanese boars, who,
hearing of the valor of the Occupation Force,
refused to come out and be killed, but hid
in the deepest thickets of the forest.”
MONEY.
Say, did you ever scrutinise a shilling
Or any other coin and note the string 4
Of letters utilised for the recitals
Of quite a bunch of immemorial titles
Conferred by custom on our gracious King,
And wonder when it would be realised
The time had come for such to be revised?
Ind. Imp. is surely ripe to hit the scrapheap,
The affix that ingratiating man
Dizzy the Jew invented as a present
For good Queen Vic. It’s clearly obsolescent
blow that we’re pulling out of Hindustan,
And leaving Indians, Moslems and the rest
To choose what sort of sovereign suits them
best.
Then there’s Rex Omnium Britanniarum,
Scaled down for brevity to Br. Omn. Rex,
A good sound claim that couldn’t be indicted
When the United Kingdom was united,
But one that since is liable to vex
Punctilious folk and, in this Eire era,
To get the goat of Eamonn de Valera.
As for Fid. Def., some hold it, too, outmoded,
This mouldy heritage from bluff King Hal.
But on that point I’ll venture no suggestion.
Being loath to interfere in any question
That verges on the theological.
More crude inaccuracies well might be,
I think, deleted from our currency.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


73E
%
mm
m
MR
r r % w
wi'
BMP
2 SM
no
W
a
«■
*Our experience to-day is die key to to-morrow. ’ V-Voltaire
A happy truism from the otherwise
vitriolic pen of the greatest of French
philosophers . . . categorically proved
in the design rooms of Babcock &
Wilcox.
From a legacy of priceless experi-
ence we have developed the modern
high temperature and pressure hoiler
—apparently the ultimate in effici-
ency and operating economy. Yet
our research staff, in workshop and
laboratory, and a world-wide net-
work of Babcock engineers, are con-
tinually advancing the suggestions
and ideas which will be incorporated
in the Babcock boiler of to-morrow.
Here then is the reason why Bab-
cock engineers are always interested
in the problems presented by steam
users in every industry. We have
the experience and technical re-
sources to solve these problems and
an alert designing staff who appreci-
ate the significance of problems
and solutions. There is a Bahcoclc
engineer in each State at your con-
stant service.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS-INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
Looking to to morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . . . maintain to
Babcock users our wotld standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
f
THE SERVICE MAN
Defence and Manpower.
“Ek Dum”: There are two phases into
which the defence of a continent like
Australia naturally divides itself: the
task of keeping would-be invaders out-
side ; the task of dealing with them if
they break in.
The job of guarding the front gate is
one which Australia cannot do alone.
The enemy must be kept at as great a
distance as possible by an external chain
of defences, the range being at least 3000
miles. To do this it is vitally important
that all the line of islands from China
to New Zealand should be in our own
or in friendly hands.
This line of islands—Ryukus, Vol-
canoes, Mariannes, Carolines, Marshalls,
Gilberts and Ellice, also Tahiti, Tonga,
the Fijis and finally New Zealand, with
the nearer belts, including New Guinea,
the Solomons, the New Hebrides, New
Caledonia and Norfolk—forms Aus-
tralia’s outer defence areas.
The irregular chain more distant from
Australia lies along the mid-Pacific axis
line. It is like the fold in an open book,
with the Australian page on one side, the
American on the other. From it a foe
with a 3000-4000 mile range could strike
with almost equal ease, on one hand at
Australia, on the other at the Ameri-
can Pacific coast. No risks are likely to
be taken with it. At present the
northern end of the line is anchored to
Korea and Japan, where the anchor
crew, under General MacArthur, is
actually holding back a Communist tide
trying its hardest to break the dam of
the U.S. Korean zone border and to
bubble up underground in Japan itself.
The eastern approaches are now the
safest for Australia, because they are tied
by nature to U.S. defences. It is in the
north and west that Australia’s position
has changed vitally.
An Open Flank
Right up to the last war Australia was
secure on her western and immediately
northern flank. The guard of the Royal
Navy and the armies of India and the
Middle East were there.
When momentarily, for a month or
two in 1942, the Royal Navy found itself
in a state of defeat in the East Indies
zone, then Australia was in real danger
—theoretically, at least —of invasion.
But in a month or so more, with amaz-
ing speed and an even more amazing
lack of advertisement, the Royal Navy
moved in once more. British aircraft
squadrons spread their wings in Ceylon
and dug their talons into the face of the
first batch of Japanese that showed their
noses in that part of the world. Never
again was there any risk in that quarter.
Ships poured supplies through the
Indian Ocean into India and into Aus-
tralia, within reach of Japanese long-
distance reconnaissance aircraft. The
Japanese lurked in Indonesian harbors
and in Singapore. They did not challenge
attention. And presently Royal Naval
units —again without much advertising-
roamed the enemy’s South-east Asia
Co-Prosperity Sphere, tearing its ports to
pieces and reaching its very heart.
All this, however, is over. The Royal
Navy is a shadow of its former self,
though it has yet to be made plain—
despite Admiral Nimitz’s recent survey of
its supposed deplorable condition —
whether it is really a wreck or whether.
with its characteristic foresiehtedness
which has placed it ahead of everybody
in the adoption of new theories and new
mechanisms, it is merely “lying doggo”
while it puts on its new suit of armor
and decides how to apply new weapons
. „1 - Lw appiy ucw weapons
to naval warfare. It is certainly perilously
short of manpower.
Whichever way the matter is con-
sidered, there has been a frightening
change in the direction from which
attack would come in the case of a war
directed against us. In the north-west
and west we have no longer a covered
flank. India is no longer ours ; neither
nave we lull control over the Suez route.
Whether an attempt were made to in-
vade us by air or by sea it would almost
certainly come from the north-west next
time—it would have to come that way
“See, no game in sight. They've smelt a rat!"
in view of the nature of American plans,
on the eastern side.
Compulsory Training Must Come
This is the most vital fact about our
whole defence. The vital conclusion
from that fact is that nothing less than
preparation through universal compul-
sory training has a hop© of coping with
such attacks if they are serious and not
merely raids.
Along the north of Australia lie,
within from 300 to 500 miles, the great
chains of the Indies, from which a rocket
travelling at normal speeds of today, if
it has the range, can reach the Australian
coast in anything from six minutes to 20
minutes. A modern aircraft with jet-
propelled speed can make the distance
in from less than 40 minutes to an hour.
Gliders can probably be hauled in some-
thing under three hours in good weather.
And the enemy who happens to hold
positions in those islands has the option
of attack at any point along 1000 miles
of coast at comparatively short range,
so that defence must be provided along
the whole length of the coastline and for
a great depth.
The day has gone when only certain
points of the littoral were suitable for
landings. Anywhere that an aircraft
strip cart be built quickly five or 100
miles inland, or where one already exists
which is not sufficiently guarded, is suit-
able for an enemy landing.
And the task of preparing to deal with
such a landing is not one to be carried
out with a few volunteers or to be de-
layed while the Defence Department is
training a force after the actual outbreak
of war.
The Elements of Defence
The elements needed for internal de-
fence include:
(a) A sea patrol and offensive force
capable of knowing the enemy’s movements
at all times within a range of at least 1000
miles of the coast; capable also of dealing
with any concentrations which may be
found, or with shipping movements.
(b) Effective radar along the whole length
of the coastline to detect and classify any
forces or raiders that may approach.
(c) A sufficient guard against attack by
anything up to a couple of airborne
brigades, fully equipped on major aero-
dromes of military value.
(d) An internal air force mobile enough
and of sufficient strength to strike at any
point within Australian territory at a
moment’s notice, to disrupt an enemy’s
communications in the event of landings,
and to make it impossible for him to con-
solidate.
This force would need to be a fairly
complex organisation. It must include
powerful fighter squadrons heavy enough
to cope with major enemy air units. And
it must include equally powerful and
flexible transport squadrons able to move
instantly either a small or large glider
or parachute force to any given point,
along with full equipment and supplies
necessary to enable the units carried to
fight the moment they hit the ground, and
tt> go on fighting for some time.
It must include proper air support and
reconnaissance machines for either one or
two large forces or for a number of small
forces.
(e) Large artillery, infantry and ancillary
forces trained in modern methods, capable
of making parachute jumps, accustomed
to air travel and trained in the technique
of going into action “off the parachute
cord.”
(f) Proper communication and transport
forces for the needs of all the fighting
troops on sea, air and land in all emer-
gencies.
(g) An intensive fortress and air pro-
tection force for munition and administra-
tive areas.
(h) Trained reserves on an effective basis
for all the foregoing.
(i) The necessary skilled personnel for
training men for the expansion of the forces
as the war goes on.
From this it will be seen that no inva-
sion war is likely to be a push-button
war. If the whole of the present army,
for instance, were capable of being
turned into a department;
if it were giren a year’s training and
werq applied to the job of detection
and radar alone in a war-time defence
force, it would not be enough.
If the whole of the R.A.A.F. were at
the moment called on to defend a small
North Queensland or Territory town —let
alone the continent—against a single raid
by aircraft of the type of the U.S. Super-
super-fortresses it could not do it, even
if the raid were run by the M.C.C. and
a notice were posted at Lord’s a month
in advance.
Too Little, Very Late.
“E.D.”: The announced rise in services
pay is welcome, but still leaves the per-
manent forces well below civil and
British standards.
It also leaves them well below British
standards in the matter of pensions and
gratuities.
The basic pay of a recruit in any
of the three services is Bs. 6d. per day.
When he qualifies to “improved standard”
he receives 11s. per day. It is virtuously
announced that this is for seven days
a week, but then he may be called on to
work seven days a week; and his life
belongs to his service.
An adult trainee seaman gets 10s. per
day. A two-star corporal—stars are for
efficiency—-or a fourth-class naval
artificer —both of whom must be pretty
good types of men —get round 17s. a
day. Is. a day more than a wharfie
gets for attendance money when he
has not done any work at all. A leading
seaman in the R.A.N. gets 15s. 3d. per
day.
Of course quarters and food have to
be taken into account, but these are
accounted as worth only 4s. 6d. per day,
a figure which would not pay board for
an infant in arms at the present time, for
a single man living privately. A married
man, according to rank, may rise to the
dizzy heights of an allowance of
9s. 6d. per day, though, “while present
accommodation conditions exist,” the
rate will stay at 6s. minimum.
When the soldier or sailor goes out
after 12 years’ service, he can draw up to
£360 gratuity, or, after six years, £l2O,
provided he agrees to serve on the re-
serve. Fancy what would happen if a
gratuity to the wharfies were made con-
ditional upon the recipient becoming an
honorary wharfie, at his employer’s call,
for as long as he was deemed fit for
service!
However, a pension and superannua-
tion scheme is “being considered.”
Officers are in the same box. Their
pay will be considerably improved, but


:S
£3
■JR
•73
A
A
//
K
\
r n~i
*6
r
&S
//./
*
1915 From Southport to St. Kilda
bathing beauties wore stockings with two-
piece swim suits which did NOT show any
bare mid-riff. That same year Goodyear had
proven that its tyres gave 3 times the mileage
of other tyres. As a result of improvements
such as this Goodyear became the World’s
most popular tyre and, every year since then,
has stayed the World’s first choice.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALEXANDER PAGETT late of Newcastle
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that ELSIE MELBA PAGETT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3462 of 1943 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under the provisions of Section 19
(2a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
within 14 days from this date and obtain a copy of
the petition free of charge from A. ALISTER
JOHNSON & McDONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN & CO.,
Solicitors, Assembly Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LAWRENCE HAROLD PATRICK WILLIAMSON
late of Armidale.—■TAKE NOTICE that SARAH
WILLIAMSON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1331 of 1947 on the grounds of desertion for 3 years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 16th day of June 1947 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from J. 0. RICKARD
& DIND, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO CHARLES STROWNIX late of Oharlecott Street
Dulwich HiII.—TAKE NOTICE that MONA STROW-
NIX has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4665 of
1946 on the grounds of your desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 28th July 1947 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from CHARLES
M. CRANITCH, Solicitor, 297 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
For 32 years-more people,
the world over, have ridden on Goodyear
tyres than on any other make.
* :
e*.
cZ e J° od^
T *• £
Brought 1913
p. 1931
It was research, testing and constant develop-
ment that enabled Goodyear tyres, thirty two
years ago, to give three times the mileage of
any other tyre.
Ever since then Goodyear, with the greatest
resources in the world for rubber research
and tyre development, has been able to keep
on putting added mileage , added safety , into
its tyres. The convincing testimony of that lies
in the fact that Goodyear has remained . . •
World’s first choice every year for 32 years.
Cl 1-47
GOODYEAR
—you don’t stay first unless you’re best
they will still remain the most poorly-
paid of their professions in the English-
speaking world, when all things are con-
sidered. And whoever decided the rates
of pay did not know even equivalent
ranks as between the services.
Thus a lieutenant in the R.A.N., whose
rank is equivalent to that of a captain in
the Army, is provided with the same pay
as a lieutenant in the Army—23s. per
day. The British basic pay for a married
lieutenant of 25 is about £575, and he has
the knowledge that his pay will rise
steadily and substantially even if he has
no actual promotion in rank. In Aus-
tralia the married lieutenant is on an
entirely different basis. He would be
lucky to have £5OO a year Australian
(£4OO stg.), including allowances, in any
circumstances, whereas in England
marriage automatically brings him an
additional £228 sterling—£2Bs Aus-
tralian.
And he is assured of a pension when
he goes out, if he serves the regulation
term.
A lieut.-colonel on the new Australian
rate gets £2 10s. per day—£2 a day in
English money. A lieut.-colonel in the
British Army, with six years in the rank,
has £1049 per annum plus £274 marriage
allowance —£1323. In terms of Aus-
tralian money he is well off as a major-
general was under the old Australian rate.
Taking into account the right of the
civilian to double time, compulsory holi-
days at stated times, the benefit of free-
dom and week-ends which are completely
his own in all circumstances, the right to
change his employment, overtime and
other perquisites, the Australian forces
will still be underpaid.
And the merit which a Government
makes of raising pay by £3,000,000 is a
shame upon it —its provision for potato
subsidy this year is £2,400,000.
General Imamura Sentenced.
Imamura, last of the Japanese Generals
to be tried on charges of general respon-
sibility for crimes and atrocities against
Australians and others,/ in the New
Guinea area, has been sentenced to 10
years’ imprisonment by the War Trials
Tribunal at Rabaul.
General Imamura commanded the
Japanese troops in New Britain, and for a
time over the whole of the Solomons
and New Guinea in general.
No direct responsibility was alleged
against him, but he was convicted of
having failed in his duty as commander
in not enforcing the laws of war by
compelling his troops to observe them.
The sentence was light, but the
General’s rule belonged to a period dur-
ing which it was difficult to sheet home
war crimes directly to the High Com-
mand.
It would’ be a good thing if all trial
reports now were assembled into a White
Paper and tabled in Parliament, so that
both Australia and Japan could know
the full and horrible facts.
Greed and the Helping Hand.
“Ek Dum”; One of the meanest lines
of policy pursued by the Commonwealth
“Government” relates to the taxation of
rehabilitation gifts to returned soldiers.
A case cited by Mr. Fadden in Parlia-
ment illustrates what is happening and
what families who do their own rehabili-
tation have reason to expect.
Mr. Fadden quoted a letter from a
Queenslander who transferred a half-
share in his business to his son, on the
son’s return from captivity in Japanese
prison camps. Under Queensland law
gifts to a returned soldier, if for rehabili-
tation, were exempt from gift tax up to
£2OOO. But the rapacious Taxation De-
partment, after the Commonwealth took
over, demanded 3 p.c. from this father
whose son had not asked a penny from
the country.
The aggrieved taxpayer wrote:
If parents are prepared to rehabilitate
their own returned-soldier sons some con-
sideration should be given them by the
Federal Government. Large numbers of
returned men are receiving over £3 per
week for a number of years from the
Federal Government, but those who help
their relatives to stand on their own feet
are taxed or fined for their generosity.
Seeing that the Treasurer introduced the
tax, purely as a measure to “protect
revenue” by deterring persons from mak-
ing gifts to avoid taxation, there is no
excuse for applying it to genuine re-
habilitation cases, especially since gift
duty, budgeted to yield £393,000 for the
current financial year, actually yielded
£449,000 in 10 months. But thus far
Mr. Fadden has failed to make any im-
pression on the Government’s determina-
tion to collect the inequitable tax.


Jk jm tJt wrn mm*
ASK FOR
$0 + . '.K/y-%\ "
v ' „ y? i
1847
. '
001 mi 3NIM qoop do s
PERSONAL ITEMS
Judge H. W. Moffitt, retired from the
N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Commis-
sion, was born on the Upper Shoal-
haven (N.S.W.). His young days
were spent mustering cattle with
his father and making the acquaint-
ance of aboriginals, swagmen and varied
outback characters whom he was to put
into many Bulletin black-and-white
drawings. As a young man he was in
charge of a small bush school, and was
transferred to the city, where he taught
for 20 years, ending up as English master
at the Sydney Boys’ High School. He
was called to the Bar when he was 40
and was elevated to the Bench nine years
ago. A genial fellow, a first-class teller
of tall stories and an amateur actor of no
mean ability, he was always a popular
figure at convivial gatherings of artists
and writers. His years on the Bench
have not lost him his sense of humor.
Italy’s desperate political condition last
week brought back into the spotlight for
a moment two of her World War I states-
men, both ex-Premiers. First Francesco
Nitti was asked to form a Cabinet, but
found the task beyond him; then Victor
Orlando was called on with the same
result. Nitti is 79, Orlando 87. Orlando
was Premier in 1918, but in the Peace
negotiations he failed to agree with the
Big Three —on Fiume especially—and re-
signed in June, 1919, a week before the
Treaty of Versailles was signed. Nitti
took over and remained in office for a
couple of years. Lloyd George, who knew
them both in their prime, regarded Nitti
as “a man of exceptional quality as an
administrator and a statesman.” His
opinion of Orlando was not so high.
In quieter days, William Webb, presi-
dent of the War Crimes Tribunal in
Japan, who recently made a scathing
attack on the U.S. Army newspaper
“Stars and Stripes,” was Chief Justice of
Queensland, and when the long-drawn-out
Jap trials are over he’ll take his seat on
the Commonwealth High Court Bench.
He was appointed to the State Supreme
Court in 1925, and in the same year be-
came president of the Queensland Arbi-
tration Court. In 1940 he succeeded
James Blair as Chief Justice. Four years
ago he was appointed Commissioner to
investigate Japanese atrocities and
breaches of Rules of Warfare ; the job
with the War Crimes Tribunal followed.
Webb referred to the newspaper as a
“wretched publication” which “by lying
and misrepresentation” was belittling the
tribunal in the eyes of the Japanese.
The vacancy on the AJ.C. committee
has been filled by T. L. Baillieu. Apart
from bearing a family name long associ-
ated with racing, T.L. has himself been a
member of the V.R.C. and V.A.T.C. for
27 years, and of the A.J.C. for
14 years, of his 49. Business in-
terests are divided between a pastoral
property at Cassilis and duties as
a director of several Sydney com-
panies. Baillieu saw Air Force service in
both wars, collecting a D.F.C. in the
first, and serving as a wing-commander
in New Guinea and the N.T. in the
second.
“Becks” on a modern fairy story;
The death, at 64 of the Earl of Harewood,
husband of the Princess Royal, has already
revived the flapper-press story of how he came
to inherit the “Clanricarde Millions.” Accord-
ing to the tale the Marquess of Clanricarde
was a notorious miser who wandered around
London in rags, with his shoes tied up with
string, shunned and ignored by everyone. In
1915 Lord Lascelles, his grandnephew, at the
time a colonel on leave from France, saw
the forlorn old man in his club and said a
few kind words to him, the first the old boy
had received for years—and no wonder, if the
first part of the story is true. Like the fairy
godmother of legend who poses as a beggar
woman to test out the youngest prince, Clan-
ricarde thereupon left all his wealth to Lascelles,
and obligingly died the following year. Another
version makes the meeting take place in Hyde
Park, with Clanricarde preparing to bed down
on a bench and Lascelles in complete ignorance
of the old man’s identity. Clanricarde did leave
his money to the Earl of Harewood and he
was eccentric, but the truth of the yarn ends
there. The Marquess was at one time in the
diplomatic service and for some years held an
Irish seat in the Commons. Lascelles also put
in some time in the diplomatic service and
was interested in politics —he contested the
Keighley seat just before World War I. These
common interests probably influenced the old
man in making his will; he had no near
relations and, his English titles became extinct,
though an Irish earldom passed to the Marquess
of Sligo. Lord Harewood served with the
Grenadier Guards in the Kaiser’s war, won a
D.S.O. and bar, a French Croix de Guerre,
was wounded three times and three times men-
tioned in dispatches. He finished up as C.O.
of a Guards battalion. His heir, who succeeds
to the title at 24, served in the Guards in
World War 11, and was captured in Italy in
1944.
With the taking of silk by J. W.
Nelligan, R. R. St. Claire Chamber-
lain, E. Phillips and K. L. Ward, S.A.
now has nine K.Cs. Phillips, a product
of Saint’s, got his on his 59th birthday;
he was admitted to the Bar in 1910.
Chamberlain (46) has been Crown Pro-
secutor for many years. Nelligan is 47 ;
Ward —who represented James in the
famous dried-fruits case —is 48.
G. S. Bridgland, of S.A., who steps up
to become First Secretary of the External
Affairs Office in London, where he has
been Second Secretary since 1945, held
a similar post for three years with the
Australian Legation in Ottawa before his
London appointment.
“Weff” on a Bush Balladist:
There was launched last week at Leeton
(N-S.W.) a movement to honor poet J. W.
Gordon (“Jim Grahame”), known to Bulletin
readers for nearly half a century, by the publi-
cation of the best of his verse in a single
volume. Leigh’ Marchant, from Yanco, who
is one of Jim’s keenest barrackers, has been
entrusted with the job of raising subscriptions
at a guinea a time for a copy of the proposed
volume and asks that orders should be sent
to him, care of the “Murrumbidgee Irrigator”
at Leeton. Local Rotarians subscribed about
£6O at their last weekly dinner, sure evidence
of Jim’s popularity in his home town and a dis-
tinction probably never before conferred upon a
bush balladist. An old friend of Henry Lawson,
Jim, who will be 73 next October, first saw
print in The Bulletin in 1900. He recalled,
on a recent visit to 252 George-street, that when
he set out to try his fortune on the track
as a stripling his father presented him
with a ’possum-skin rug, a small sauce bottle
of wine and a copy of The Bulletin. Inspired
by the backblock bards of the period he wrote
his first poetical effort, “The Diamantina
Rager”—a gem of 16 stanzas, each with a
different metre from the other. It landed in
the basket and so did the next attempt which
ended
and it’s worth its weight in gin,
It’s the paper for the bushman,
Is the Sydney Bulletin.
and earned the comment “Would publish your
paean of praise—if only for ‘it’s worth its
weight in gin’—but modesty forbids.” “Another
bloke would have crawled up a hollow log
and stayed there,” confessed Jim’, “but I kept
on bombarding Archibald with verse and
finally scored with a piece called ‘Boundary
Riding.’ ” He’s lost count of the times he’s
scored since.
Years ago when Edgar Allen, now
Deputy-Director of Education in S.A.,
was teaching physics to intermediate
students he discovered that one of his
pupils knew more about the subject than
hb did. This sort of thing is bad for
the morale of both teacher and class;
EDUCATION.
when the physics period arrived Allen
solved the problem by sending the lad off
to carry out experiments on his own.
When Marcus Oliphant, of atomic-
research fame, visited Adelaide a few
months ago he thanked his old teacher
for giving him the opportunity for private
research so early in his career. Coventry
did the drawing, including cap, tie and
eyebrows.
Oldest guest at the annual dinner of the
Company of Master Mariners of Aus-
tralia, held in Brisbane last Week, was
Captain A. Bishop, who at 90 is a good
advertisement for a seafaring career. It
is 77 years since he joined his first ship,
the barque Pacific, in London, on a
round-the-world voyage during which he
called at Brisbane and Rockhampton.
Apart from his age he has another dis-
tinction which no one else at the dinner
could match ; Bishop Island, at the mouth
of Brisbane River, was named after him.
When author Frank Clune, in a recent
“Roaming Round Australia” broadcast,
said “hello” to the C.O. of Truscott
operational base, he was renewing a war-
ROAD SAFETY.
time acquaintance with James Sivight
Barry, who, in civil life, is advertising
manager for C.O.R. As a squadron-
leader Barry commanded Truscott during
late 1944 and early 1945, when squadrons
of Australian, U.S. and Dutch heavy
bombers were pounding thfc Japs from
Sumatra to Timor. During his time some
1000 sorties originated from the field, and
only four craft were lost, two falling to
Zeros and two crashing at the take-off.
Barry was a qualified pilot in the ’thirties,
and became a close friend of Kingsford-
Smith and Charles Ulm, doing most of
the ground organisation for the barnstorm-
ing tours these two famous airmen made
in Maoriland. Medically unfit for service
flying, he was appointed to an administra-
tive commission in the R.A.A.F. in 1940,
and held a senior enginfeering staff job
at H.Q, for two years before being
appointed to a command. He regards
as the brightest effort of his 25 years in
the publicity business the just-released
C.O.R. Road Safety Children’s Painting
Competition. He was bom in M.L.
Pushing bicycles long distances for
pleasure seems to be a pastime with a
particular fascination for Victorians —
possibly the example of Hubert Opper-
man is fhe inspiration. A couple of
months ago Ernie Old, a youngster of
70 who has been doing such things for
years, arrived back from a ride to Bris-
bane, looking younger than when he
started off. Last week another habitual
cyclist returned to Melbourne with a
heavily-laden bike and the longest beard
that ever got tangled up with handle-
bars. He is 30-year-old Jack Orr, who left
Melbourne 20 months ago and pedalled
8300 miles, via N.S.W. and Queensland,
to Darwin. The trip was a kind
of walkabout on wheels; Orr took
when and where he could get it, snatched
his time when he had earned enough to
see him through the next stage of his
journey, whistled up his bike and pushed
on.
An Adelaide man, Roger Willoughby,
who went abroad last year on a travelling
scholarship to study at North-Western
University, Chicago, has been awarded
that university’s degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery. He gained his B.D.S. at
Adelaida Uni, in 1938 and served in the
R.A.N. during the war. . Before return-
ing to Adelaide to start a practice
Willoughby intends to visit Canada and
Britain ; he is one of the first batch of
ex-servicemen chosen for training over-
seas under the Commonwealth Recon-
struction Training Scheme.
Retired at 72 from M.L.’s Supreme
Court Bench, after 13 years as Judge,
Harold F. Johnston, son of Sir Charles
Johnston and grandson of Dr. Isaac Earl
Featherston, first superintendent of Wel-
lington Province and first Agent-General
in London. Oxford polished him off ; he
graduated B.A. in 1897 and was called to
the English Bar. Judge Johnston is one
of half a dozen present M.L. Judges who
served in the 1914-18 war; he joined the
London Scottish as a private and finished
up a captain.
E. J. Breakwell, senior lecturer in agri-
culture and plant-breeder at S.A.’s Rose-
worthy Agricultural College for the past
14 years, transfers next month to Sydney
’Varsity as senior lecturer in Principles
of Agriculture. There he will concentrate
on soil-fertility problems, but as the
breeder of Rapier, Scimitar and Javelin
wheats, and improved strains of barley
and field peas, he won’t be forgotten in
S.A.
Hail and farewell:
Major-General Edwin Tivey, C. 8., C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., dead in Melbourne at 81, was when
out of uniform a stockbroker. He won fame
in the old A.I.F. as the commander of the
Eight Infantry Brigade—renowned throughout
the force as “Tivey’s chocolate soldiers.” The
brigade was formed in Australia in mid-1915,
and Colonel Tivey, who had served in the
volunteer and militia forces for 35 years, was
given the task of organising and commanding
it. Of its four battalions, the 29th and half
the 31st were raised in Victoria, the 30th in
N.S.W., half the 31st in Queensland and the
32nd in South and West Australia. Most of
the subalterns Tivey had trained himself as
Commandant of the officers’ school at Broad-
meadows, and before the brigade left A us f ra^a
he had already, as the Fifth Division’s historian
wrote, “endeared himself to all ranks by his
unaffected sincerity and his vigilant personal
care of their interests.”
In March, 1916, from its training area around
Tel-el-Kebir in Egypt, the Fifth Division was
ordered to take over the Suez Canal zone near
Ismailia. Survivors of the other two infantry
brigades—the 14th and 15th, especially the 14th
—will never forget their gruelling two days’
march through the desert to Moascar on the
way to that position. Scores of men dropped
in their tracks under the heat and the heavy
going, and the first man of the 14th to stagger
into Moascar, challenged by a N.Z. sentry,
threw himself on the ground and replied “I’m
Burke and bleeding Wills.” Tivey’s Eighth
Brigade did the journey by train, and were for
ever afterwards known as “Tivey’s chocs.”
The old man kept up his reputation for
paternal care of his men all through the cam-
paign in France. After the Armistice he took
over command of the Fifth Division.' His
D.S.O. was won in South Africa while serving
with the Victorian Mounted Rifles. He finished
his military career at 60, having then for five
years (1921-26) commanded the Second Cavalry
Division, A.M.F. His son, Major E. P. Tivey,
died in 1943 while a p.-0.-w. in Italy.
Into the silence;
In Melbourne, Dr. Westmore Stephens, a
grandson of the founder of Stephens and Watts,
afterwardsi Stephens and Sons (“The Post Office
Is Next”), absorbed by Myer’s. The Stephens
family gave the land on which the Armadale
(Vic.) Baptist Church is built and found most
of the money for the building.
At Wellington, Maoriland, at 78, Patrick
Joseph O’Regan, M.L.C., former Arbitration
Court Judge. First a journalist, he represented
Inangahua and Buller "seats in Parliament for
10 years, then studied law, specialised in com-
pensation cases, and became eventually a Judge
of the Supreme Court. On his retirement
about a year ago he was named M.L.C.
In Adelaide, at 41, Geoff. M. Martin, secre-
tary of the Baseball League and leading
umpire. He was S.A. delegate to the Aus-
tralian Baseball Council, manager of the State
team four times, and League official on the
war-time Allied Services Welfare Co-ordinating
Committee.
In Melbourne at 61, Dr. Arthur Theodore
Langley. For the past 16 years he earned on
a practice at Auburn; before that he had
practised at Tatura and Ringwood. With ms
brother and sister he was a trustee of St.
Catherine’s School in Toorak. He was the
youngest son of the first Bishop of Bendigo.
In Brisbane, Donald Cameron Loxton,
grazier, of Bollon (Q.), sometime secretary of
a Kimberley diamond mine. After returning
from South Africa he went into partnership
with his uncle, William Ross Munro, in the
Heather holding at Bollon. Later he bought
Ross Munro’s interest, and also acquired Mona.
At Hanmer Springs (M.L.), at 54, Major
G. H. Macan, who served in the two wars.
After the first he joined the regular forces and
during the second was supply officer to the
M.L. forces at Norfolk Island.
In Melbourne, Sister Muriel Peck, the mych-
loved nurse who opened the first baby health
centre in an old church in Richmond in 1917.
She was the first infant welfare nurse in Vic-
toria and the first matron of the Infant Welfare
Training School at South Melbourne.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
In the round of parties which were
“programmed” for the visiting U.S. Task
Force the one given to Rear-Admiral
Carson and his officers by Commander
Brendan Moynahan, Assistant U.S. Naval
Attache, and Mrs. Moynahan, at 14
Queens-road deserves special mention.
Mrs. Moynahan’s black frock was high-
lighted by a lei of white carnations. h£rs.
T. Tompkins, wife of the U.S. Naval
Attache, wore beige crepes, with a black
hat and accessories. General Blarney and
his wife were there ; so were the Consul
for China, Martin Wang, and Mrs. Wang,
whose Oriental gown of mushroom-pink
was trimmed with gold embroideries. Air-
Marshal Williams and Mrs. Williams and
Air-Marshal George Jones dropped in.
The R.A.N. was also to the fore. Cap-
tain H. Burrell brought his wife, who
was in beige with a small floral hat for
contrast. Captain and Mrs. H. Rosen-
thal, her ensemble of black with a net
yoke embellished with beads, and Com-
mander F. Cook and Mrs. Cook, she in
a navy-and-white spotted frock, bade hail
and a regretful farewell to the Americans.
Final up-ending of glasses for the Task
Force personnel was the consular func-
tion at Fairlie Court, South Yarra, the
home of the Consul-General for U.S.A.
Richard Boyce and Mrs. Boyce. Mrs.
Boyce, who had just returned from
Sydney, wore a midnight-blue veiled
hat with her black frock. Mrs.
Martin G. Blackmun’s brown afternoon
frock had matching sequins trimming the
collar; Mrs. Armistead Lee covered her
black dress with a cherry-red box coat.
Mrs. H. B. Leggett wore a maroon moire
cocktail frock, Mrs. James B. Lindsey’s
two-piece black woollen frock sported a
large bustle bow. Mrs. Ralph Hunt’s
black ensemble was finished with gold
accessories. Captain John Blood squired
Penelope Nettlefold, whose long black
dinner gown was ornamented with
appliqued powder-blue leaves. Joan and
Judith Silk, Joan Keast, Lindsey Webb
and Diana Medley were happy young
attenders.
The Boyd Neel Orchestra, which has
been dispensing such splendid string
music, was entertained at a supper
party given by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Bernard Heinze, who had invited other
guests to meet the distinguished conduc-
tor and his nine women and nine men
players. Bowls of autumn flowers
and tropical plants made the rooms
gay. Mrs. Heinze received her guests
wearing a wine - toned net frock
spotted in white and with a deep white
band at the hem of the long full skirt.
The Lord Mayor, Councillor Ray Con-
nelly, and Professor Bernard Heinze
were there to extend the glad hand to
these ambassadors of British culture.
Others who nibbled savories were the R.
Himmers, Mrs. Herbert Brookes (her
sage-green crepe dinner-gown was worn
with a brown ermine cape), the Tristan
Buessts and the Ken Myers—the latter
pair have just returned from honeymoon-
ing, and are settling into a new flat in
South Yarra —Penelope Nettlefold, wear-
ing a long floral gown and white fur coat,
and Penelope Rous in red blouse, even-
ing skirt of royal-blue crepe and a full-
length brown fur coat.
An autumn day with warm sunshine
brought an unusual number of racegoers
to Moonee Valley, Women came out in
well-cut tailored suits, many in
bright tonings. A smart outfit was
worn by Mrs. R. Smith. Her English
tweed coat in brown and mustard
diagonal stripes was cut with the new
dolman sleeves, and the wide back panel
which came from the shoulders was
centred with an inverted pleat. Her
fisherman’s cap was of mustard-toned
wool. With a midnight-blue jacket suit
Madge Joseph wore a brown felt hat the
large upturned brim of which was
trimmed with sweeping feathers in dark-
brown and beige. Mrs. Ivan Guest,
owner of Bay David, chose a brown
jacket suit and matching hat. Mrs. A.
A. Lord wore a cheerful-looking cherry-
red jacket over a black frock. Mrs. L. A.
Coleman’s light-grey English tweed box
jacket suit had the collar and edges of
the coat trimmed with grey Indian lamb.
Her hat and accessories were London
Tan. Mrs. W. S. Cox, wife of Moonee
Valley Race Club’s secretary, wore an
attractive slate-grey edge-to-edge coat
featuring jewelled buttons which matched
the clasp on the belt. Mrs. Ralph
Michaelis’s beige cloth coat was high-
necked and had back fullness. It was
trimmed with gold buttons.
To give news of the forthcoming “Aus-
tralia Can Make It” Exhibition which
opens in this city on June 12, members
of the Queen Victoria Hospital Rebuild-
ing Fund, entertained presswomen at
lunch in the hospital board room. Mrs.
H. R. Hamer, acting president of the
committee in the absence of Lady
Brookes, who is in England, was hostess.
During the exhibition the committee will
be prepared to cater for cocktail parties
and dinners for up to 120 guests. Reser-
vations may now be made for intending
hostesses by ringing Central 3312. The
greater part of the luncheon was pre-
pared by Dr. Deborah Duller Murphy,
and she also was responsible for the
artistic decorations of the luncheon tables.
Arminell Judith Reynell, only daughter
of Mrs. David Taylor of Campbell Town,
Tasmania, and the late David Taylor, has
just announced her engagement to Allan
McLean, younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
G. L. Madcinnon, Conara, Tasmania.
Arminell is an Old Girl of Toorak Col-
lege, Frankston and of Invergowrie. The
wedding will take place early next year,
and the young couple will make their
home at Glen Esk, Conara. Picture is
by Spencer Shier.
St. John’s, Toorak, was the setting for
the wedding of Rona Dorothy Benton,
only child of Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Ben-
ton, of Toorak, to Robert William, second
son of Mr. and Mrs. C. V. Robertson,
of South Yarra. Rona’s long-sleeved
gown of off-white crepe was made with
a deep U-shaped neckline, the fullness
in the skirt extending from the hips and
forming a bustle bow. Her lovely veil of
Venetian lace, lent by Mrs. Graham
Austin, was worn with tulle and held in
place with a soft tulle coronet. A little
bow of Robertson tartan ribbon was tied
to the bouquet of gardenias and tuberoses
she carried. The bride was given away
by her father; the Rev. H. M. Arrow-
smith performed the ceremony, Jacque-
line, the ’groom’s sister, was the only
attendant; her off-the-shoulder. frock of
white moire taffeta was finished in front
with a posy of taffeta flowers. Pink Cecil
Brunner roses were in her hair and her
bouquet. John Frayne was best man.
The reception was at No. 9 Darling-
street. Mrs. Herbert Benton received
thb guests in a black frock with beige
lace appliqued on the tight-fitting bodice,
and Mrs. C. V. Robertson also chose
black. Mrs. Harold Holt covered her
short black dinner frock with a box-
coat of black Indian lamb. Pauline
Priestley’s white satin gown had an im-
print of Parma violets. Long detachable
sleeves were a feature. Mrs. Bill Mc-
Gown was in dove-grey chiffon, the skirt
finely pleated and embellished with
pastel-toned flowers. Mrs. Dan Reddan’s
pastel-pink French taffeta gown
featured a large bustle bow, Lynette
Walker was gowned in black chiffon,
fashioned shirtmaker style. Peggy Mol-
lard wore ice-blue moire, the skirt bouf-
fant, the bodice having a deep-cut back
and puff sleeves. Cr. Morton and Mrs.
Morton, she wearing a blue and silver
lame frock, and Mrs. John Woodward,
in small cyclamen flower hat and powder-
blue gown, were there to congratulate.
News comes of travellers abroad. Dr.
and Mrs. Jim Peters are still in London,
Jim having just received his F.R.C.S.
degree. Mrs. Peters was the former
Moira O’Collins, and her parents are
waiting eagerly to see the grandchild
Moira will bring when she and Jim re-
turn. Michael and Nura Hall evidently
did not find the housing problem so
grave a difficulty, for they are settled in
a house in Percy-street. Norval Morris,
who is doing a post-graduate course in
law, and his wife Elaine have found a
flat at Red Hill. Norman Vivian and his
wife, the former Joan Gravestock, have
been staying at Nottingham before leav-
ing to make their home in New York.
From Sydney
On May 24 the whole of the British
Commonwealth waved its flags, lit its
bonfires, let off its fireworks in celebra-
tion of Empire Day. The ships in Sydney
Harbor were flag-decked, American as
well as Australian. Maybe some of the
visitors wondered what the fluttering flags
exactly signified. They signified pride in a
great Empire, great in courage and re-
sources and family loyalties.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron
held its dinner in honor of Empire Day
last Friday night. The comfortable and
conservative old clubhouse at Kirribilli
blazed with lights from half-past six on-
wards. Extra tables had been squeezed
into the dining-room, and the crowds of
members all wore smooth plumage and
a proud, patriotic look. The top table at
which speaker of the night Daniel Mc-
Vey sat entirely surrounded by the club’s
flag officers and their wives and other
nautical importants, had a background of
Union Jacks and Australia’s flags. The
flower arrangements on all the tables
were in tones of red, white and blue and
the place cards —attractive trifles designed
in red, white and blue and dusted over
with gold stars —call for special praise.
Daniel McVey, among other dizzily-
important jobs, held formerly the position
of Director-General of Posts and Tele-
graphs. That of course proves him a
man of letters, but he is a man of words,
not to say oratory. He gave the toast
“The Day We Celebrate” in stirring style
with just the right, dash of Celtic fire.
Do you remember the line of that song
the radio was always handing to us
during the war? It goes:
And we glory in the title of the United
States Marines.
Well, the Marines of Task Force 38
looked as though that line were an article
of Faith with them as they and their
comrades marched through our city last
Wednesday morning. The morning was
one % of mixed sun and cloud, but the
sky was shining and blue when the men
stepped out from the Domain. There
were 1600 Americans in the march:
ratings, marines and aircrews from, the
aircraft-carriers. They looked fine and
upstanding, and most of them were so
terribly young. The populace in thou-
sands lined the way and girls, blonde-
and brown-haired, threw streamers and
cheered. The Governor, Lieut.-General
John Northcott, took the salute at the
Town Hall steps, and near by stood Rear-
Admiral S. P. Ginder, Commander-in-
Chief of the Task Force. America’s
Consul-General Nielsen was there, too ; so
were Premier McGirr, Lord Mayor
Bartley and Admirals, Generals, Vice-
Marshals, and Minister for the Navy
Riordan,
After the march the civic drawing-
rooms held a bright company of about
200 Americans and Australians mixed by
the deft hand of the Lord Mayor and
his wife. Her double-breasted suit of
black Angora had Tor complement a
small larkspur-blue felt hat bunched at
the side with three-toned satin ribbon'.
The Governor came to this party. Star-
spangled guest, of course, was Admiral
Ginder, and he, according to Sydney
hostesses, is a guest of surpassing ease
and friendliness. Noticed were Mrs.
Orsen Nielsen, wife of America’s Consul-
General, and Mrs. J. Riordan, wife of
our Navy Minister.
Elizabeth Northcott, younger daughter
of the Governor of New South Wales,
Lieut.-General John Northcott, has added
her charm and warm smile to many of
the parties given in honor of the visiting
U.S. Task Force. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Sympathy is widespread for Colonel
Alfred Spain, of Kurraba, whose friendly
and bright-faced wife died suddenly last
week. The Spains have friends all over
Australia. «and letters and messages are
coming from all over the Commonwealth,
Mrs. Spain’s presence will be missed at
functions of the Royal Empire Society,
of which the Colonel is president. She
has been a gracious little hostess on in-
numerable occasions.
The rains swept up just in nice time
for the Government House reception for
Admiral Ginder and his officers. The
curtain was timed to go up at five o’clock,
so that a soft autumn evening stroll in
the gardens might be savored. But the
skies were a grey smudge and the rain
was too heavy to be laughed off, so it
was an indoors affair after all.
The Governor, Lieut.-General John
Northcott, Mrs. Northcott and Admiral
Ginder gave heartening smiles and hand-
clasps to the guests. Mrs. Northcott’s
toque was a charmful arrangement of
violets and tulle, and her black frock
wore a white lace jabot. Marjorie and
Elizabeth Northcott assisted their parents
in entertaining the many guests.
America’s Consul-General was there with
Mrs. Nielsen. Premier James McGirr and
his wife were at the party. Mrs. Claude
Healy’s leopard-skin coat and muff were
followed with the gaze of open admira-
tion. The big blue roses which made Mrs.
Wal Anderson’s flower hat also came
in for commendation. The Morshead
lady and the wife of Chief Justice Jor-
dan, the Rear-Admiral Farncombs, and
Lieut.-General Berryman and Mrs. Berry-
man were among the notables.
St. Michael’s Church, at Vaucluse, has
been booked for four o’clock on the after-
noon of June 25 for the wedding of Eliza-
beth, only daughter of Lieut.-General
knight Leslie Morshead and his lady. The
bridegroom will be Michael Kidd,
whose parents are the James Kidds,
of Echo Hill, Kootingal, near Tamworth.
The bride will have three attendants,
who were all at school with her dt Fren-
sham.
Tsckaikovsky’s “Eugene Onegin” will
be given for five nights at the Conser-
vatorium. But the Russian scene on
which the curtain goes up is scarcely
that now lived behind what , the news-
papers call “the iron curtain.” Still, this
opera, with its romanticism, its wavering
aspirations, never fails to attract. The
opening is on May 31 at eight o’clock.
Mollie Grouse, David Barwell and Ray-
mond Nilsson will be in the cast. This
will be Raymond’s last appearance in
opera before he sets out for England.
The United Service Institute swung
into the dance on the eve of Empire Day.
There were about 300 guests at this the
first dancfe of U.S.I. since 1939. Nearly
all the men were in uniform, and there
were lots of young officers of the last war
years. There were, too, a number of
British uniforms seen among the various
groups, and such cascades of flags as the
A.M.C. Drillhall has never seen before.
It was party day for Lieut.-General
Berryman and his wife, who came on
from Admiral Cinder’s dinner in ‘the
Shangri-la, and had gone on to that from
the party at Tresco given by Admiral and
Mrs. Moore. Chairman of the dance
committee, Brigadier Holland, and Mrs.
Holland entertained an outsize in official
parties. Captain Keith Morris and his
wife gathered a crowd of son Barry’s
friends around their table. Admiral and
Mrs. G. D. Moore were among the
revellers.
Last week Sydney had what might be
called the week of the dancing feet. By
the thousands girls and the lads of the
American Navy danced in the Shangri-Ja,
and in the Antietam. It was a week of
big balls, too, and at all of them there
were companies of U.S. Navy officers.
American hostesses planned parties, and
there seemed to be lunches for some of
the Navy every day. But the two lads
seen walking across the Quay nibbling
meat pies must have slipped on their
invitation. There was a party in
H.M.A.S. Shropshire given by Rear-
Admiral Farncomb and Mrs. Farncomb,
there were parties given by Rear-Admiral
Ginder in the Shangri-la. Even Cupid
was stirred out of his drowsiness, and let
fly a fe,w arrows dipped in the virus of
matrimony.
Many congratulatory cables and tele-
grams were received when Edwin, the
graceful, fair-haired daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. Saxby, was married to John,
son of Commander and Mrs. A. J. Lou-
doun-Shand, in the century-old church,
Holy Trinity, Kelso. John served in the
Middle East and New Guinea during the
war, and is an old Melburnian and St.
Peter’s Collegian. The Loudoun-Shands
are well known in all the States of the
Commonwealth. The Commander was
in charge of Flinders Base throughout the
war.
Once more with song and dance the
ever-popular Junior Red Crossers will
entertain' friends and admirers who
attend their exhibition in the Town Hall
on Friday, May 30. Mrs. John North-
cott, wife of the Governor of N.S.W.,
who is president of the J.R.C., will attend
the morning session and - speak to the
Juniors. The Lady Mayoress will be
present at the afternoon session. The
exhibition, as always, will be a display
of many hundreds of beautifully-knitted
garments and other gifts made by
members of the J.R.C. for the children
of invalid ex-servicemen.


The
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
invites your discussion
of any matters affecting Wills , Executor-
ship , Trusteeship and Estate Manage-
ment. With over sixty years of
experience , The Union Trustee offers
specialised knowledge in all such
matters, its comprehensive organisation
ensures permanent , competent and sym-
pathetic administration , in complete
confidence. Charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance .
•ert
. The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager; C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c. ; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.Cj
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman): R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e. ; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street—A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic , Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder. e
df
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO..
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Wunderlich. Ltd. ...
, Dividends <,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 p.c.=30,800 16,875 45,686
1939.. 59,804 11,200 7 „ ~30,800 17,804 63,490
To staff fund, £3OOO 60,490
1940.. 62,520 11,200 7$ p.c. =33,000 18,320 78,810
To staff fund, £3OOO .. .. .. 75,819
1941.. 50,553 11,200 8 p.c. =35,200 4,153 79,963
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 74,963
6—7 p.c.
1942.. 68,957 10,699 6 p.c. =26,400 31,858 106,821
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. .. 96,821
1943.. 56,531 10,697 6 p.c. =26,400 19,434 116,255
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. .. 106,255
7 p.c.
1944.. 64,488 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 22,488 128,743
To staff partners, £14,600 ~ ..114,143
1945. . 54,386 11,200 7 p.c. ==30,800 12,886 126,529
To staff partners, £11,750 .. .. 114,779
1946.. 60,826 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 18,826 133,605
To staff partners, £9400 .. .. 124,205
1947.-63,744 11,200 7 p.c.=30,807 21,737 145,942
To staff partners, £lO,BOO .. .. 135,142
* After deducting bonuses to staff.
Turnover is governed by conditions in
the building trade. From factories spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, the co. feeds the trade with
architectural terra-cotta, tiles, asbestos-
cement (durabestos) sheets, shop
fronts, showcases, pressed-steel par-
titions, etc.
During the war the alert and versatile
management was able to keep plant busy
fabricating components in metal for de-
fence purposes. So, despite evaporation
of private building and the rise in taxa-
tion and costs, net earnings for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1945
averaged £58,983, compared with an
average of £55,900 for the preceding
quinquennium.
No time was lost in switching back to
normal production again; and there is
a huge backlog of demand waiting to be
overtaken. Chief factors limiting pro-
duction are labor, materials and indus-
trial hold-ups. Still, there has been.an
encouraging growth in the number of
private building permits issued in metro-
politan areas throughout the Common-
wealth, as the following table shows:
Monthly Averages.*
Six Mths.
f Year Ended June to Deo.,
1939. 1943. 1945. 1946. 1946.
£OOO. £OOO. £OOO. £OOO. £OOO.
Sydney .. 1111 117 183 943 1809
Melbourne. 702 77 132 593 1090
Brisbane .. 171 10 62 241 452
Adelaide . . 192 49 80 260 392
Perth .. 145 14 50 136 220
Hobart .. 32 5 13 25 38
Six capitals 2353 272 520 2198 4001
* Permits issued by Local Government authorities,
excluding Government buildings.
In addition all State Governments have
entered the field with expansive private
home-building programmes. But owing
to the uneven flow of materials to the
building scene —tiles are the bottleneck
at the moment —construction is delayed
and protracted, and costs are rising to
exorbitant levels. Costs are increased
not only by wage lifts and waiting and
delay, but also because labor tends to
stretch out work when materials are short
in order to avoid lay-offs.
Unprecedented demand for building
materials at high prices lifted the co.'s
turnover to a record figure last term —
about double pre-war level. But the
advance in costs outstripped the advance
in selling prices, which are controlled.
Hence the gain in net earnings was only
£2918. That was after allowing £39,135
(up £1537) for depreciation and something
for obsolescence and taxation. The
£63,744 of profit covered the full contract
rates on the prefs. and 11.9 p.c. on the
£440,200 of ord. capital, as against 11.2,
9.8, 12.1, 10.3, 13.1 and 9 p.c, back to
1941. An all-round 7 p.c. was handed
out for the fourth year in succession, and
£lO,BOO was allotted to staff partners.
The £10,927 that was left lifted reserves
£135,142 in excess of intangibles
(£73,888), not treated as an asset herein.
The year’s brisker trading is reflected
in expanding balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1943. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,200
Creditors .'. 107,878* 215,564 215,069 267,031
Tax reserve .. 97,924 131,821 155,4^0
Staff funds . . 30,601 52,050 81,300 90,560
Freeholds ~ 318,703 323,679 329,891 342,815
Leaseholds .. 200
Plant, etc. .. 158,307 158,491 159,420 193,192
Stocks.. .. 188,873 335,346 357,588 365,465
Book debts . . 118,623 183,787 115,309 160,659
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 56,328 89,539 212,524 209,405
* Including tax provision.
The financial position is comfortable.
The more or less liquid surplus (£313,018)
was £25,523 less than at the previous
balance, owing to a net addition of
£46,194 to the book value of fixed assets.
The price of the f.-p. pound ords. has
advanced from the old ceiling figure of
28s. 9d. at end 1946 to 38s. Bd. At the
higher price the return is 3.6 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. For each of the three
lots of 7 p.c. cum. prefs., buyers offer
335., at which figure the yield would be
4.2 p.c.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. serves, serves.*
1937.. 30,044 9,000 20,000 1,044 95^03
1938.. 32,961 9,000 20,000 3,961 99,864
1939.. 29,111 9,000 20,000 111 99,975
1940.. 29,414 9,000 20,000 414 100,389
12J p.c.
1941.. 34,003 9,000 25,000 3 100,392
1942.. 33,998 9,000 25,000 100,390
7J p.c.
1943.. 24,022 9,000 15,000 22 100,412
1944.. 24,366 9,000 15,000 366 100,778
12J p.c.
1945.. 36,689 9,000 25,000 2,689 103,467
1946.. 45,825 9,000 25,000 11,825 115,292
1947.. 43,705 9,000 25,000 9,705 124,997
* After deducting goodwill (now £16,659).
Retail store shares have been among
the most keenly sought scrip on the
Stock Exchanges since share-price con-
trols were lifted at end 1946. That is
because retailers are less subject to in-
dustrial hold-ups than those in the pro-
duction industries, and retail profits these
days are mainly a question of turnover.
With a public largely starved of goods
during the war years, the problem has
been to get rather than sell merchandise.
The upper limit of gross margins for a
large number of lines is fixed by Gov-
ernment edict, which means that compe-
tition no longer exerts much influence
on mark-up—the fixed price tends to be-
come the minimum, hence the request for
jettisoning of both rationing and price
control on lines no longer in short supply.
Advertising and delivery costs are still
restricted, and though wage lifts raised
labor costs they also helped turnover,
and there has been little, if any, increase
in wage cost per sale.
This co. specialises in tailoring,
mercery and sporting goods, and its store
is at one of Melbourne’s busiest corners
—Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, opposite
the G.P.O. ’ Turnover increased again
last term, but the margin of gross profit
declined, which probably meaqs that pur-
chase prices rose faster than selling
prices owing to official control. Selling
exes, were higher following wage lifts,
and there was a certain amount of dislo-
cation owing to re-organisation and alter-
ations to the store. The declared profit
was £2120 less than the previous year’s.
However, there was enough to cover the
pref. div. and show an attractive 17.3
p.c. on the £200,000 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 18.4, 13.8, 7.6, 7.5, 12.4, 12.5
and 10.2 p.c. back to 1940. So there was
no difficulty in maintaining the \2\ p.c.
distribution, of which 5 p.c. is labelled
bonus. The £9705 that was left lifted re-
serves £124,997 in excess of goodwill
(£16,559).
The current term’s figures will suffer
from the effects of the recent engineers’
and transport workers’ strikes. There are
signs that the public is becoming more
discriminating in its purchases, and costs
continue on the up-grade. However,
there is still plenty of money about, em-
ployment remains practically at the full,
and the wide margin between earnings
and distributions gives the 12i p.c. a
comfortable appearance, for the present
at any rate.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 106,282 112,204 121,838 128,828
Tax provision 5,000 13,000 37,000 30,000^
Property, etc. 414,888 415,838 438,518 441,366*
Plant, etc. ~ 6,360 5,886 3,811 1,509
Shares in other
cos 5,804 5,804 5,804 4,189
Stocks . . 88,146 93,413 76,411 95,406
Book debts . . 6,127 4,735 7,096 12,910
Cash, etc. . . 10,348 24,918 67,489 42,947
The large amount invested in bricks and
mortar and the comparatively small sums
represented by stocks and debtors’ bal-
ances suggest a lively cash turnover.
Liabilities include a mortgage of £99,000.
The more or less liquid surplus (£27,123)
was £7839 lighter than at the previous
balance.
Uncertain as to what the future holds
for this class of business, the market
prices the f.-p. pound ords. at 495. 6d.,
at which figure the return is 5 p.c. on a
121 p.c. div. basis. The 9 p.c. cum.
prefs. at 395. yield 4.6 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £1 13s. Id. ords. and £4 6s. 2d.
prefs.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
J To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Added replacement reserve, £11,897 .. 185,749
1937.. 47,185 9 p.c. t= 44,325 2,860 188,609
Added replacement reserve, £12,582 .. 201,191
1938.. 49,812 10 p.c. = 49,250 562 201,753
Added replacement reserve, £18,960 .. 220,713
1939.. 53,577 10 p.c. t= 49,250 4,327 225,040
Added replacement reserve, £1547 .. 226,587
1940.. 49,443 10 p.c. = 49,250 193 226,780
Added replacement reserve, £9147 .. 235,927
1941.. 34,039 7 p.c. = 34,475 235,491
Added replacement reserve, £14,744 .. 250,235
1942.. 8,909 Nil 8,909 259,144
Added replacement reserve, £16,211 .. 275,355
1943.. 7,376 3ip.c. = 16,006 266,725
Added replacement reserve, £13,919 .. 280,644
1944.. 34,525 5 p.c. = 24,625 9,900 290,544
Added replacement reserve, £13,901 304,445
1945.. 43,749 7 p.c. = 34,475 9,274 313,719
Added replacement reserve, £5809 ~ 319,528
1946.. 2,192 5 p.c. = 24,625 297,095
♦lncludes replacement reserve, £286,960 at
31/12/’46.
Flood damage to crops caused the col-
lapse of earnings of this Bundaberg
grower and miller in 1942 and 1943.
Last year drought, one of the most severe
experienced in the Queensland sugar belt,
and damaging winter frosts severely re-
stricted cane crushings and the mill out-
put of ralvs. The co. doesn’t broadcast
its crushing and mill figures, but after
allowing £B2BB (down £6364) for depre-
ciation and whatever was considered
necessary for taxation, net earnings were
£41,557 lighter at £2192. And that was
after capitalising £22,082 of “field ex-
penditure against future workings.” The
£2192 was 0.4 p.c. on capital as against
8.8, 7.1, 1.5, 1.8, 6.9, 10 and 10.8 p.c. back
to 1939. However, the board considered
the outlook good enough to pay 5 p.c.,
making the average rate of distribution
over the last five years a wink over 4 p.c.
as against an average of 9.4 p.c. for the
preceding quinquennium.
Thanks to recent rains it is expected to
cut 450,000 tons cane in the Bundaberg
district during the current season, com-
pared with 262,000 tons last year. But
there has been a sharp advance in wage,
transport, refining and other costs, in-
cluding jutfe goods; the industry has not
yet recovered from the cramping effects
of war-time shortages of manpower, fer-
tiliser, tractors and other essentials, and
further recession in the price received for
raws for home consumption is anticipated
—the figure eased from £24 to £22 2s. a
ton over the six years to end 1945, and
dropped to £2l 18s. last season. The
saving factor has been the increase in the
price obtained for exports. It advanced
from around £A7 pre-war to £AI9 10s.
per ton for the 1946 season, and is ex-
pected to exceed £A2S a ton for the
current crop. The effect has been to
strengthen the over-all average price to
millers and growers, and thus take some
of the sting out of rising costs.
Chief fears of the industry at the
moment are as to what might happen at
the international trade talks at Geneva
concerning (1) the embargo against sugar
imports into Australia; (2) maintenance
of a stabilised domestic price independ-
ently of export values and (3) Empire
preferences on sugar. These things under-
pin the structure of our sugar industry,
destroy them and the collapse of the
industry would be threatened. Produc-
tion in Java and the Philippines is ex-
pected to be in full swing again by 1950,
and if by then the European beet-sugar
industry is also rehabilitated a sharp
drop in the Australian export price of
raws can be looked for.
As for the copra plantations of the
subsidiary Malayta Co. in the Solomon
Islands, inspection had not been com-
pleted at the date of the annual meeting.
A year or so ago damage was not ex-
pected to exceed 3 p.c. of the book value
of assets concerned. Appearances are
that copra didn’t contribute much to the
pool pre-war, when the stuff was fetch-
ing around £9 a ton in London. The
present price is over £26 a ton, and there


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys,
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.
Collins
Austra-
—Advt.
PATENTS. TRADE MARKS,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH, HASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS—EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St., Telephone
SYDNEY, N.S.W. * BX 2649
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF.
d
fd
Biter
Cylinder
i
fd
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty, Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS $
OSIII.IJVAN
A pmro
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : 1 PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MINING PARTNERSHIP.
Experienced miner (aged 77) needs assistance,
on partnership basis, to work claim for platinum
and gold. Has mining rights for about 25 acres.
Estimated cost to bottom shaft and drive, £5O.
For full details, write Thomas H. Little, San
Remo Platina, Box 16a, Fifield, N.S.W.
ill
■ tm '.J
iii rr
♦
liii
■«: J
5?? HH* ,M- ■ ■f?
’m4 CASSOH 4 CO. PT* ITP. BST. 1848 (NO
Treasures of Antiquity
AT least once in a life-time Egypt’s awe-inspiring records of
an earlier civilization should enchant the eye and dazzle
the imagination. But Egypt calls equally to the pleasure-seeker,
for hare visitors may enjoy all the luxuries of today while
exploring the grandeur of the past. The bright, exhilarating
climate affords ample opportunity for every form of sport, and
the fashionable round of gaiety provides music, dancing, and a
night-life of sparkling variety.
By breaking their journey to or from Europe this season,
travellers are afforded a splendid opportunity of enjoying
the friendly welcome that awaits them in Egypt. Here
they will find luxury hotels whose comfort is unsurpassed
in the capitals of the world, as well as plenty of first-class
pensions. Up-to-date travel facilities. Many clubs admit
temporary members.
Special Tourist Visas obtainable In the British Common-
wealth and Empire. Full particulars from the usual Travel Agencies.
I
LAND OF ENCHANTING CONTRASTS
c4mlmlian metfcpolHm£ife
tflmv Budneu Up29.lZ
The 51 st Annual General Meeting was held at the Head
Office of the Company in Sydney on the 29th April, 1947,
when the accounts for 1946 disclosed a very satisfactory
record of progress, some of the salient features being:—
New Business
Total New Business for the year was £1,312,714, comprising
Industrial £765,681 and Ordinary £547,033, and represent-
ing an increase of 29.1 p.c. for the year.
Payments to Policy-holders
£231,631 for the year bringing total payments since the
inception of the Company up to almost £3,000,000.
Assets at December 31, 1946
£3,246,1 79, of which 75.5 p.c. is invested in Commonwealth
Government and Municipal Securities.
Valuation Basis
The Industrial Department basis has been reduced to 2f p.c.,
while the existing Ordinary Department basis of 2£ p.c.
has been further strengthened by a special Actuarial reserve.
These and other features signify
Today*s protection - Tomorrow*s security
A USTRALIAN
ASSURAMCi COMPANY LTD
( Incorporated in Queensland, 1895.)
The Metropolitan Building,
Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
E. W. Robinson, General Manager.
are no signs of an early recession. Obvi-
ously much depends upon the extent of
Hamase to the plantations and how soon
they can be got into production again.
Here are balance-sheet figures, incor-
porating those of the Malayta Co.:
1938. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid Capital.. £492,500 £492,500 £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* .. 84,484 273,553 185,392 186,995
Estates .. 330,681 338,218 338,786 338,786
Factories etc. 360,124 463,426 494,467 521,680
Stocks etc .. 45,648 211,484 44,510 56,654
Book debts 85,066 17,234 142,910 56,528
Cash, etc. . . 6,468 5,657 5,413 5,487
* Including provision for taxation.
When the books closed outside liabilities
exceeded more or less liquids by £68,326,
a slip of £75,967 over the twelvemonth,
owing partly to the addition of £27,213 to
fixed assets, partly to capitalisation of
field expenditure and partly to payment
of divs.
After sales at 335. 6d. buyers recently
offered 325. for the f.-p. pound ords.
without attracting sellers. At the higher
figure the return is 3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 4.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribution.
Net tangible cover is 285., including re-
placement reserve (£286,960).
Mt. Isa (Q.), paid capital £1,944,202,
will offer those on the register 2,000,000
new £1 shares at par next month. Mining
Trust, the big London investment and
finance co., which holds about 80 p.c. of
Isa’s issued capital, intends to make
available a number of the new shares to
those on Isa’s pay-roll. The new money
is wanted to help finance plant expan-
sion, including erection of a modern
copper smelter (capacity 1500 tons
blister a month) and addition of a 30,000-
ton-a-month unit to the mill to handle
copper sulphides. The co. is also in-
vestigating the possibility of opening up
its own coal deposit near Hughenden
(N.Q.). Some of Isa’s floating debt to
Mining Trust, Britannia Lead Co., and
American Smelting and Refining Co. is
to be funded —loans figured at £832,407
at end June, 1946. With a ready market
for all base metals at high prices, Isa’s
prospects of paying a div. in the near
future look bright.
* * * *
“Dimbula”: Jump in wolfram prices,
which have almost doubled over the past
few months, has brought a revival of
activity at Mt. Carbine, Petford, Wol-
fram Camp, and other wolfram deposits
of the Cairns (N.Q.) hinterland. These
deposits, or most of them, have been
worked intermittently for over half a
century. Mount Carbine, active pro-
ducer in the late ’eighties, has had many
ups and downs, but a few hardy spirits
have always kept the field open. Today
something like 40 shows are being
worked, and each coach day brings new
arrivals. Wolfram is not classed as base
metal, and is therefore not covered by
the concession recently granted Broken
Hill South in this area.
* * * *
The rising cost of production, diffi-
culty in obtaining machinery, stores, ex-
plosives, etc., and one demned thing and
another in the way of getting fuel were
stressed by President F. G. Brinsden at
the annual roll-up of the Westralian
Chamber of Mines. Ore mined and
treated in the State during 1946 was
2,194,477 tons, an increase of 457,885
tons on the 1945 figure, and the grade
was |dwt. above the 1945 average. This
indicates the need of mining higher-
grade ore to meet rising , costs and alter-
natively the need to re-calculate ore
reserves, especially in low-grade proposi-
tions. Number of men employed in the
industry at the end bf 1946 was 6391,
and the wages bill for the year totalled
£5,943,835. Employment of more men at
Kalgoorlie and other mines and resump-
tion of operations on closed-down proper-
ties accounted for the addition of 1637
names to pay-rolls during 1946. The
president deplored the fact that the min-
ing industry could not pass on the cost
of lifts in the basic wage and additional
holidays, which other industries could,
and did. He urged a highep price for
gold. According to the Chamber’s tabu-
lated figures, Lake View and Star, with
132,204 fine oz., headed the list of Wes-
tralian gold producers. Gt. Boulder came
next with 87,343 oz., and then North
Kalgurli with 38,160 oz., followed by
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie 36,758 oz.,
Central Norseman 35,959 oz. and Boulder
Perseverance 29,106 oz.
*** * .
A seam of rich gold and telluride ore,
15in. wide, has been exposed in an east
crosscut at the 300 ft. level of the Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie Associated Northern
Block at the northern end of the Golden
Mile. The seam was intersected by a
diamond drill some time ago. It appears
to be a small offsider of the great Brown-
hill Oroya shoot, which, in the early days,
was struck near the surface of the Brown-
hill mine and which, pitching at a flat
angle, crossed the southern boundary of
that property and went through the
Brownhill Extended, Associated Northern
and Oroya North Block into Associated,
where it petered out. Its length was
estimated at 4500 ft. and the value of the
gold extracted from it £7,000,000.
* * * *
At end 1946 Golden Horseshoe, Ltd.
(W.A.), held cash and investments total-
ling £135,441, against which were lia-
bilities, including div. payable, of £12,967.
Directors say reasonable profits should be
earned from Boulder Perseverance tail-
ings dump of 600,000 tons, treatment of
which is expected to take about a year.
Initial operations for the month of April
resulted in a loss of £4517, owing to the
presence of a large charcoal outer ridge.
With costs as they are it is not yet pos-
sible to say whether No; 2 dump of
2,000,000 tons can be profitably treated.
It is proposed* to convert existing 2s.
shares into stock units of similar amount.
* * * *
London-controlled Mt. Charlotte Gold
Mines, Ltd., vendor of the Kalgoorlie Mt.
Charlotte group now under option to
Wiluna, Lake View, and Gold Fields
Aus. Development cos, announces an
underwritten new issue of 400,000 2s. 6d.
shares, three-for-ten at par. The new
money is wanted to acquire the Maritana
areas, south of the Mt. Charlotte group,
and the Queen Margaret blocks at
Bulong.
* * * *
Adelaide Mines Development, N.L.,
which hopes to turn the old and hitherto
unpayable Ives Reward goldmine (W.A.)
t 0 profitable account, offered share-
holders 53,325 shares at a shilling apiece
™ the P ro P ort '“ n of one for two hc < !
on May 14. The new money is wanted
to carry on until the revenue-producing
stage is reached. Milling is about to start
on some 5000 tons of 6 to 7dwt. ore,
which the directors say is ready for
stripping in the upper levels. They add
that further supplies of better-grade stuff
are expected within the next four
months. Paid capital is now £11,625 in
59,363 10s. shares paid to 3s 1 Id. each.
Last reported sale was at f 2s. 4d. (
„ OB „. Imperia[ Gold Mines> Ltd>
has taken an option on an auriferous
area at widgiemooltha, between Cool-
gardie and Norseman (W.A.). Co. is said
to have got hold of a real good thing,
but during its 50 years’ existence Widgie-
mooltha has not had a mine that has
gone to any depth worth mentioning, or
one that has produced much gold. The
field seems to be one of shallow enrich-
ments.


Km* /V
w
LEA &
PERRINS
THE ECONOMY SAWCf
Missing Friend.
TO ROY EDWARD WILLIAM COOKE formerly of
Forrest Lodge New South Wales but now of parts
unknown Baker—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ALICE MARY EUNICE CORA COOKE has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in Mel-
bourne within fourteen days from the date of publi-
cation of this advertisement and file an answer in the
said office in twenty-one days from such date the
case may proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs. —ERNEST ALLEN, 443 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for Petitioner.
AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING
COMMISSION
an Australia-wide Competition
MUSIC—DRAMA—VARIETY
1947 A.B.C. NATIONAL RADIO
EISTEDDFOD
A quest for undiscovered broadcasting
talent among Amateur artists.
No age limit. No Entry Fee.
£2500 Cash Prizes £2500
SECTIONS FOR CONTEST
MUSIC
Set Classical pieces and own
choice Classical selections for—
VOCAL PIANO VIOLIN
and any other Instruments.
DRAMA
Dramatic recitals from Shake-
speare or any modern play.
Duologue from Shakespeare or
any modern play.
VARIETY
Crooner or Rhythm Songs.
Instruments, Popular or Novelty.
Comedy Entertainer,
■AUDITION CENTRES
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART
and many country towns in all States.
Entry Forms with full information
available from A.B.C. Offices in all
States.
Last day for entries —
THURSDAY, JULY 31, 1947.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA."
Since Shaw set up in competition with
Shakspeare there’s no good reason why
he shouldn’t enter the field against Cecil
B. de Mille in the production of super-
colossal celluloid epics—even to the ex-
tent of permitting his first effort to be
labelled “temptation in technicolor.” At
any rate, in his first assault on the domain
of Mr. de Mille, Mr. Shaw has, with the
aid of Gabriel Pascal, been singularly
successful “Caesar and Cleopatra”
(Sydney Regent) has all the extravagant,
spectacular qualities dear to the most
enthusiastic of Hollywood producers.
It is all the more singular in that,
apart from its spectacle, it has little else.
Pascal’s productions of. Shaw’s “Pyg-
malion” and “Major Barbara” made ex-
cellent entertainment —brilliant comedies
overflowing with Shavian exuberance, wit
and mental acrobatics. The essence of
“Csesar and Cleopatra” is little more than
a lecture, and, in the filmed form, not
a particularly witty one—certainly not
witty enough to stand, like the best of
Shaw’s plays, on that quality alone. So,
without wit and, like most of Shaw, with-
out credible characters, it stands or falls
as an historical extravaganza. Since
Pascal had over a million pounds to spend
on the opus, the extravagant side has been
lavishly treated. A first impression is
that enough masonry has been stacked
together in the re-creation of Alexandria
to rebuild London, and that the number
of players employed would have been
sufficient to do the rebuilding.
The result of the expansive spending,
however, is not altogether satisfactory.
Many of the sets have that unreal, studio
atmosphere about them ; there are few, if
any, panoramic scenes and little action.
The whole is more like something out of
an Arabian Nights’ dream than anything
out of Egypt. With a million to spend
Mr. Pascal might at least have managed
something comparable with:
The barge she sat in, like a burnished throne,
Burn’d on the water: the poop was beaten gold;
Purple the sails, and so perfumed that
The winds were love-sick with them; the oars
were silver,
Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and
made
The water which they beat to follow faster,
As amorous of their strokes. For her own
person,
It beggar’d all description: she did lie
In her pavilion—cloth of gold tissue —
O’er-picturing that Venus where we see
The fancy outwork nature: on each side her
Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids,
With divers-color’d fans, whose wind did seem
To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,
And what they undid did.
That is “temptation in technicolor.”
And what of the characters that people
the extravagance? Caesar, part beast, part
woman and part god, as Shaw describes
him, is unreal —not a man at all. The
role is, allegedly, Shaw’s attempt to
create a dominant male character and, as
with all his men, he aims to portray some-
thing more than a man, but creates some-
thing less. His men lack masculinity ;
his women, femininity. The girls have a
peculiar sexless quality which, suited as
it may be to such Shavian creations as
St. Joan or Major Barbara, is utterly
incongruous in a character like Cle6-
patra.
It is not surprising, then, that Claude
Rains and Vivien Leigh do not get very
far with the two roles. There is no doubt
about Rains’s histrionic ability nor of
Vivien Leigh’s competence to portray a
seductive lass—as in “Gone With the
Wind” and “Waterloo Bridge”—but be-
tween them in the Shavian opus they give
an excellent depiction of a kindly old
uncle educating a kittenish and sometimes
vicious wench in a selection of
Shavian theories on good government,
war, pacifism, the qualities of greatness
and what-have-you.
Among the minor oddities with which
Shaw likes to people his creations are
Apollodorus, played by Stewart Granger,
beautiful in technicolor; Ftatateeta,
Cleopatra’s fearsome nurse, played with
resigned abandon by Flora Robson ; and
Britannus, a British tribesman in Caesar’s
retinue —a Shavian anachronism ap-
parently designed as an opportunity to
unload a few Irish observations on the
English. All of them seem to enjoy the
technicolor joyride at Mr. Shaw’s ex-
pense.
John Charles Thomas.
John Charles Thomas plays on two
instruments —his voice and his public—
and it is difficult to say which he uses
more successfully. The first seems still
to be in remarkably good order and, if it
weren’t, he has the art to conceal any
inroads time may have made upon it.
The second appears to comprise nine-
tenths of the population. Both have been
filling the Town Hall in Melbourne
with the kind of audience which remains
absolutely inert until the accompanist
strikes up a bar ; then it becomes suffused
with an agony of pleasurable anticipation
and, towards the conclusion of the pro-
gramme, makes almost as many apprecia-
tive noises as the singer himself.
Having the physique of a wrestler, with
enormous shoulders and arms like a
boxer’s, Thomas is all the more impres-
sive when he uses his voice-box to pro-
duce the subtle nuances of a panel of
French songs or some lyrical delicacy of
Schubert. Half-way through an evening
it becomes plain that half his art is
demagogic. He sings, in a rich, resonant
and expressive baritone that is as easily
produced as a healthy man’s breathing,
songs by Brahms, Franck, Massenet and
other exalted people with the serious ex-
pression of an undertaker. Then a smile
illumines his face and he announces that
he is going to sing, by imperative demand,
a song he hasn’t sung for 10 years—
though he sang it the night before last.
It is, of course, “The Open Road,” and
his audience immediately becomes deli-
quescent. Then he sings “The Minstrel
Boy,” “Mr. Jim,” “Lindy Lou” and
“When My Boy Comes Home,” all ditties
calculated to bring tears to the eyes of
a cast-iron monkey. Or he warbles the
folksongs of the gambling men of Ken-
tucky and in the space of 15 minutes
conjures up a picture of the primitive
culture of the Mississippi Valley.
Incidentally, Thomas sang a song on
one night in which a distinct eructation
interrupted the flow of the first verse. A
listener hearing him for the first time
would naturally conclude he was suffer-
ing from a complaint commonly known
as wind on the stomach, and would feel
very sorry for him. When the hiccup
occurred in the next verse, however, it
transpired that Mr. Thomas was playing
another of the jokes that seem to endear
him to his enormous public and which
a less accomplished singer couldn’t play
at all.
A Chopin Exponent.
Closer acquaintance with Henryk Mier-
owski, the Polish pianist, especially in
the “long short” works such as the
Ballades and the Scherzos, reveals him as
one of the most forceful interpreters of
Chopin Sydney has heard since Moisei-
witch. It is good to hear, in the dramatic
passages such as in the Scherzo in B
Minor, Op. 20, and the Ballade in A Flat,
Op. 47, left-hand playing of dynamic
force and sureness. The Polonaise in B
Flat, Op. 71 No. 2, is more of a patriotic
outburst than a dance measure, and this
quality was given its proper recognition
in a reading that, in the middle and final
sections, reached into the pinnacles of
pianism.
Mierowski’s second and third Sydney
recitals included the Chopin Sonata in
B Flat Minor, Op. 35, and the B Flat,
Op. 58. In the former, the psalmody
of the scherzo movement, with its chords
alternating between the two hands, evoked
a tone of haunting beauty. The Finale
following the Funeral March was taken
with tremendous verve, yet with no slur-
ring of phrase. Lyricism marked the
playing of the Largo of the B Minor,
the pianist sweeping through the technical
snags of the brilliant Finale as if they
didn’t exist. Brahms’s Variations and
Fugue on a Theme of Handel, and the
Busoni arrangement of the Bach Organ
Toccata and Fugue, were examples of
well-disciplined virtuosity in which the
pedal, particularly in the Toccata, was
used to fine effect.
"Piccadilly Incident."
Made in the best British style, directed
with imagination and artistry by Herbert
Wilcox, and sticking to a note of under-
statement, this current film at Sydney
Embassy points the problem of a child’s
legitimacy as it arises ‘from the old
Enoch Arden situation —this time in re-
verse. The wife, a Wren, is marooned
for three years on a Pacific atoll with
another Wren and four British sailors,
survivors of a torpedoed ship out of
Singapore.
The drama is salted with some good
Cockney humor, but the scenes on the
atoll are delicately handled, although one
disgruntled A. 8., on being told that the
girls insist on strict decorum, has the re-
mark wrung from him that the atoll they
are on must be one of the Virgin Islands.
Anna Neagle turns in a good stretch
of dramatic acting, and Michael Wilding
is a blase, well-bred husband to the life.
An impressive newcomer in a strongly
masculine role is Michael Laurence.
"Americana."
Out of deference, no doubt, to certain
visiting naval units, “Percy Athos Follies,
1947,” Melbourne Tivoli’s current con-
fection, has been labelled “Americana,”
Inasmuch as Mr. George Wallace, re-
cently returned from Nippon, is the life
and soul of the production, this almost
amounts to trade misrepresentation. Mr.
Wallace’s humor is broad and long and
so typically Australian as to be com-
pletely incomprehensible to any overseas
visitor who happened to drop in, though
there is something universal about his skit
on justice, with himself as Judge, prose-
cutor, defence counsel, witness for both
sides and Lord High Executioner with a
hiccup.
Apart from Mr. Wallace there are the
Kermond Brothers, whose acrobatics are
astounding, and a lady who is the only
person in the world to turn six somer-
saults without visible means of support;
a conjurer, Duval, who arouses the envy
of all smokers by producing smokes from
invisible tobacco, and Chung Doo, who
thrills you with songs you love if you
love the songs he sings. Why Americans
join the Navy is to a certain extent ex-
plained by a couple whp are billed as
“direct from New York.” Otherwise the
show is f.a.q. Tivoli entertainment.
Reviewed Briefly.
Films
“Suddenly It’s Spring” (Sydney Prince
Edward): Inconsequential comedy with
Paulette Goddard as a W.A.C. officer
whose job it is to advise other W.A.Cs.
what to do about their tottering
marriages. She returns home to find her
own husband, Fred Mac Murray, clamor-
ing for a divorce. Mr. Mac Murray’s
attempts to get his separation and his
wife’s attempts to get him keep a lightly
amusing situation afloat for the full
running time.
3» * * *
“The Magnificent Lady” (Sydney
Lyceum): History as she is wrote in
Hollywood. Ginger Rogers as Dolly
Madison, Burgess Meredith as James
Madison and David Niven as the vil-
lainous Aaron Burr. Niven does a sur-
prisingly good job, but there’s a good
deal of high-flown speechifying, and Miss
Rogers even refers to the American
nation as a baby tied up with pink rib-
bon, Or something. ’
* * * *
Those who lap up the “series” pictures
can revel in the double bill at Sydney St.
James, where, in “Dark Delusion,” Lionel
Barrymore lavishes his considerable talent
on the not very exacting role of Dr. Gil-
lespie of the Blair General Hospital,
while Anne Sothern does not give quite
the same impression of wasted talent as
she again deals with the no more exacting
role of Maisie in “Undercover Girl,”


m
r 7 a
m
m
-spa.
u
Dear Motorist,
Early in May we began sealing all
Shell pumps once again, just as was done for
years before the war.
Everyone prefers to buy and sell
guaranteed quality, so everyone, public and
trade alike, was always in favour of this Shell
service—which no other company ever offered, or
offers now.
Shell completely controls your
petrol from the ocean tanker to the tank of your
car. The Shell pump is again your faithful
servant.
m
fS. YOU CAN BE SURE OJ SHELL
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)
54710 F
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Facing conditions which promised anything
but well, a smallish crowd had a better than
fair afternoon at Randwick. The track was
on the soft side, fields were very open and an
additional hazard was provided by the heavy
rain which had upset training during the week;
yet favorites won four of the seven events.
The handicapper deserved full marks for the
fine race produced by the Warwick May Handi-
cap of a mile and a half. With seven runners
weighted between Spearex’s 8.7 and a minimum
of 7.6, any one of them could have been the
winner with less than a furlong to go. After
tailing the field to the half mile Spearex (W.
Cook) made up his ground rapidly to be one
of several disputing the lead at the distance.
Spearex and Buonarroti Boy drew ahead and
crossed the line locked together. It was near
enough to a deadheat, but what the backers
of Buonarroti Boy would no doubt refer to
as the Evil Eye. Camera gave its hairline decision
to Spearex—the favorite. Fort Denison third.
The Midstream five-year-old Cold Shower
added the six-furlongs Flying to his winning
record, which is surprisingly meagre for a
galloper of such obviously good class. It was
only his fifth win in four seasons of racing.
He has been confined chiefly to sprinting, and
it would not surprise if toe were to do better
over a spot of distance. Ridden by J. Thompson,
Cold Shower, finishing ahead of Gay Monarch
and Brazier, gave the impression that he could
have won at any stage.
With eight acceptors, of whom seven actually
faced the starter, the Payten stable would have
been stiff to miss getting some return from the
Two-year-old Novice, run in two divisions.
Slander (B. Robards) was the stable and public
elect for the first division, which he won well,
though unlucky Set Purpose was fast overhaul-
ing him at the post. The New Zealand-bred
Outbreak (Nizami-Dawning Light), having his
first outing, was a promising third. Bought
as a yearling for 1500 guineas, Slander is a
product of P. Miller’s Kia-Ora stud and is bred
along lines which that studmaster greatly favors,
being by Midstream from Tittle Tattle, a Con-
stant Son mare with the Magpie blood.
The second leg of the two-year-old was won
in thrilling fashion by a Beaupartir gelding
bearing the unattractive name Shyster. Nearing
the post the race appeared all over, with Royal
Reward safely holding Jannock; then the little-
fancied Shyster (T. Mullane) suddenly found
an astounding burst of speed and flashed past
them. If such a finishing effort is regular part
of his make-up Shyster could win much better
events.
The Greenwich mare Even Time was the
most fancied for the nine-furlongs Carlita
Handicap, restricted to three- and four-year-
olds of the sex. While she duly landed the
money it was not without giving her supporters
a nasty moment or two. With Briscoe holding
her in the “box-seat” all the way, she seemed
never in doubt until given a touch with the
whip, which sent her veering off towards the
outside rail in the final furlong. Just as sud-
denly she straightened up and finished true
to down Burnley and Flying Swan.
Both sons of that fine galloper Beau Vite,
Beau Robert and Beau Brummell had the
finish of the Three-year-old Novice to them-
selves, but punters had picked the wrong beau
in making Beau Brummell favorite. Beau
Robert, who got there by half a length, with
a further couple of lengths to Joan Dale, was
a winning ride for A. Mulley, who gets Very
few opportunities of late.
* * * *
If the National Hurdle were to be run to-
morrow there is little doubt as to what would
be favorite. In the Ardmillan Hurdle at
Mqonee Valley on Saturday Latani (K.
Rhiraes), although not overburdened with
9.11, was giving weight to all but Dog
Watch (10.2). Showing considerable improve-
ment in his jumping, Latani went to the front
at the half-mile and made a farce of the race
from that point on. Passing the post it was
20 lengths to Reynard, four more to Charles
Smart and a further 15 lengths to Dog Watch,
fourth. Time for the two miles was 3.35 —
good anywhere and a Usee, improvement on
the previous best for the course. Quite a
youngster as jumpers go, Latani is a four-
year-old black gelding by John James.
Latani represents the D. Mcßae stable, which
houses the strongest team of leapers in Mel-
bourne, and which made it a double success
when the David gelding Quixotic, already a
National Steeple winner, showed that he re-
tains ability by landing the Lindsay Gordon
Steeple. Quixotic (R. Hall) and Garofil took
the last fence together well clear of the rest
and staged a bumping tussle to the judge,
where Quixotic was going slightly the better;
20 lengths further back Tente and Leicester
Square dead-heated to split third money.
Meenan, the rider of Garofil, fired in a pro-
test, but it was turned down.
Continuing the remarkable sequence of dead-
heats on courses not equipped with the camera,
New Warrior and Void could not be separated
after covering the 13 furlongs of the Empire
Handicap. New Warrior finished on stoutly
to just draw level with Void, who had shown
the way over the last half-mile; Chatsol third.
It was certainly not a good day for favorites,
four of the “good things” finishing into minor
places and the rest failing to achieve even that.
Closest to success was the Hellespont colt
Stormy Sea in the mile Belinda Handicap for
three-year-olds. Giving supporters a sterling
run for their money, he failed by only a
half-head to peg back the Dhoti gelding Natural
—no disgrace since Stormy Sea was conceding
the winner 221 b. and the third horse, Sir
Charles, 201 b.
J. Purtell was the rider of Natural, also of
New Warrior., He made it a treble by taking
the Highweight on High Play, a clear winner
from Greek Myth and Fine Fettle. The
favorite, Rhythm Queen, displayed her custom-
ary speed but failed to see out the six fur-
longs. “Lucky” Porter owns High Play and,
with three good winners also at the recent
Adelaide “carnival,” is beginning to appear
more deserving of his nickname.
Apprentice D. Snart lost his allowance with
his success on the Theio filly Broadcast in the
first division of the Two-year-old. Broadcast,
who is part-owned by the 1914-18 V.C. winner
R. V. Moon, accounted for Gay Megsie and
Chartist, Surma running a fair race to finish
fourth. A warm favorite for the second
division, Dumfries was going along very easily
when he suddenly tumbled, giving H. Badger
"Wring the other one out now , Mauler—that one's dry!"
what appeared to be a nasty spill. All present
were relieved to hear later that Badger, who
is riding at the top of his form, had escaped
serious injury. The winner was Beau John
(E. Preston), downing Jalna and Sandy Bay.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—
Two-year-old; Set Purpose, 1; Bikini, 2;
The Gaffer, 3. Mixed Stakes (seven furlongs):
Sajakeda, 1; Kuvera Hope, 2; Dieppe, 3.
Mixed Stakes (10 furlongs): Skymaster, 1;
Frontal Attack, 2; Rifle, 3. Flying: Dutch-
man, 1; Field Captain, 2; Brazier, 3. Rosehill
Handicap: Buonarroti Boy, 1; Avajanche, 2;
Mentone, 3. Welter: Lord Neith, 1; San court,
2; King’s Glen, 3.
* * * *
What thfe war correspondents used to
call “a state of fluidity” exists in the
V.F.L. competition, where the “four”
changes its identity every Saturday. Ten
days ago it was Collingwood alone in
front, with Footscray on the outer. On
Saturday the twain met and ’Scray pre-
vailed, 13.12-10.16. Carlton, having over-
whelmed St. Kilda, 23.17-7.11, shares the
lead with Footscray, Fitzroy in third
place and Collingwood just ahead of Mel-
bourne. All this was confusing enough
to thfc barrackers, but the 10,000 or so
at North Melbourne almost bit pieces out
of the goal-umpires in their excitement as
North, 7.2 behind, tore into Essendon in
the last quarter and won by 15.12 to
14.10. South Melbourne made hacks of
Fitzroy, 15.11-8.15, Richmond suppressed
Gfeelong by 18.18 to 11.11 and Melbourne
licked Hawthorn 12.9 to 9.12.
* * * *
In Sydney a Queensland Australian
Rules team went down by 17-13 to 15.17
against a N.S.W. side after being 3.1 be-
hind at the final change. A week-end
deluge of rain reduced the match to a
mud scramble, with odd flashes of good
play.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union team downed
Queensland 25-11 at Sydney Showground
in a fast open game, the local backs
having the edge in speed. Bastes scored
three tries, and Tonkin, after running the
full length of the field, the first half very
fast,'the second half much slower but fast
enough, scored a freak try, having taken
the ball from the Queensland full-back
after kicking it from his own line. For
Queensland, Broad, five-eighth, and Mc-
Master, McLean and Winning, forwards,
were outstanding. Cornforth and Keller
were the pick of a good N.S.W. p£ck, and
all the N.S.W. back line were brilliant,
# , * ♦ •
At Brisbane the South Africans beat
the Australian Soccer team, as was not
unexpected. Scores, 4-2.
* * * *
Pipped in the London “Daily Mail”
golf tournament, Norman von Nida col-
lected 200gns. for second, and brought his
winnings in England on the present tour
to over £lOOO. A poor first round set
him back, but the little Queenslander
finished with a brilliant 69 to be 281, two
strokes behind Dai Rees, the Welsh
crack.
* * * *
By his showing in outpointing Leo
Berry (9.7?) at Melbourne Stadium,
Archie Kemp (9.9) staked a claim to be
regarded as the best recruit to the pro.
rank from the amateurs for some years.
It was Kemp’s third victory in succession
since he changed over, and he both boxed
and fought in most promising style,
* * * *
Named here by Jack Read some time
back as the pick of the recent importa-
tions, cullud American O’Neill Bell hit
too hard for Englishman Alec Buxton —
last seen in Australia as a fighting Royal
Marine —in their Sydney Stadium engage-
ment. Bell was given several cautions
for hitting outside the approved parts of
the anatomy, but he went so well all
through that he must have won it anyway.
♦ * * *
Ken Hatcher (8.5 i) was unlucky to be
beaten by Billy Williams (8.2) in their
scrap for the bantam title at Leichhardt.
Somewhat like a beanpole—he is sft.
lOin. tall, and only a little over the fly-
weight limit —Williams could not with-
stand Hatcher’s vigorous attack, and
Hatcher, though an accidental clash of
heads opened his left eyebrow in round
two, won the first five rounds decisively.
Official champion Mickey Francis hav-
ing been in England over six months,
Hatcher and Williams were billed as
fighting for the residential 8.6 title. Aus-
tralian championship rules say that a
title is automatically declared vacant
when the champion has been absent from
his homeland longer than six months.


Commonwealth
of Australia
Legal Service Bureaux
For the purpose of giving'legal advice and
service to present and former members of
the Forces and their dependants, the Legal
Service Bureau was established' in 1942, as
part of the Commonwealth Attorney-General’s
Department. This Bureau is available to
assist both men and women. Addresses
throughout the Commonwealth are:-
4th Floor, Mercantile Mutual
Building
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone BW 1852
Saxon House
450 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Epworth Building
PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. House
ST. GEORGES TERRACE, PERTH
Crown Solicitor’s Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and G. Building
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9124
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
A.W.C. Building
CLEVELAND ST., TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON
. Telephone 3169
Police Building
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6658
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
DARWIN
Under Part II of the Re-establishment and Employment Act
1945, members and ex-members of the Forces are entitled to
preference in certain circumstances in engagement for
employment. They also have other special rights—for
example, in relation to housing and tenancy, and moratorium
and re-establishment benefits.
The Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Legal Service Bureau
advises, without charge, on all legal matters affecting service-
men or their dependants. Any member or ex-member of the
Forces who believes he has not been given the treatment to
which he is entitled, under the Re-establishment and Employ-
ment Act or otherwise, is invited to place the facts of his
case before the Legal Service Bureau, either by letter or
by personal call.
H. V. EVATT,
Attorney-General of the
C ommonwealth.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Shipping and the Waterfront
Modern civilisation is based on an
economy which functions through a
system of international trade that em-
braces the whole world. Overseas ship-
ping is a vital instrument in the con-
duct of this trade. And since trade is
the indispensable handmaiden of material
prosperity, anything that dislocates or
interrupts it also impedes progress to-
ward the target aimed at by all pro-
gressive nations today, namely, a high and
stable level of demand and a high and
rising standard of living.
The shipping scene, as it existed pre-
war, has been largely rubbed out and is
now remade. During the war the British
merchant marine suffered heavy losses.
Moreover, it was arranged that the U.S.,
because of its knowledge of mass pro-
duction and fabrication, should concen-
trate on construction of merchantmen,
while the U.K. devoted itself to building
warships. Thus the U.S. alone among
the maritime Powers has emerged with
a greatly increased fleet of merchantmen,
and the U.K., heavily handicapped by its
losses, has made a relatively slow get-
away in the transition race.
Apart from questions relating to the
number of ships in service and the
cargoes available, the problem has become
largely one of costs. The ready answer
is, of course, to lift fares and freight
rates by appropriate' amounts. But this
might tend, ultimately, to damp down
the volume of trade by bumping up prices
of goods to levels which would endanger
stable demand. So management has
rightly sought partial solution of the
problem by building bigger and faster
ships, at about double pre-war cost. But
higher speeds, improved accommodation
for passengers and crew and greater
cargo capacity are only economical when
there is a regular flow of both passen-
gers and cargo in both directions, so that
ships can be run to a tight schedule. The
extra cost is recouped by running a ser-
vice with fewer units; increased speed
increases the annual carrying power of
a ship, and thus reduces the number of
ships required to handle a given volume
of traffic over a period. But while man-
agement can plan to meet and overcome
changed conditions, results depend not
only on the few who direct but also on
the many whose job it is to co-operate in
doing the physical work involved.
Since the war ended, Australia’s pro-
gress toward the target referred to
has been retarded and undermined by its
Communist-led waterside and dock
workers, who have also dictated in a
practical way Australia’s foreign policy
toward the Dutch in the Indies.
The speed at which the loading
and discharge of cargo and stores are
carried out and repairs effected in Aus-
“ Nineteen-nineteen — haven't you got any of THIS years models ?”
tralian ports has been greatly reduced by
go-slow and hold-up tactics of the
workers’ organisations, thus immobilising
ships and their crews for long periods.
This delay in the turnabout of vessels
represents a dead loss to both shipowners
and the public ; it needlessly increases the
burden of the already sharp rise in other
costs, all of which, in the long run, are
paid for by the public in higher freight
and passenger rates. And these higher
rates finally express themselves in higher
selling prices for goods, and so contri-
bute to the inflationary spiral.
The present deplorable position is due
not only to a succession of general and
sectional stoppages, but also to the shame-
less use of monopoly power by the union
in an -effort to perpetuate the shortage
of manpower on the waterfront, and so
maintain a sellers’ market for this class
of labor. Following settlement of the
recent Sydney waterside strike (it began
on March 10, when the Stevedoring In-
dustry Commission, a Government-
appointed body, ordered overtime to be
worked for three hours three nights a
week, and ended on March 24) 500
new members were to be admitted im-
mediately to the union. It was six weeks
before the first batch was admitted, and
the full 500 names have not yet been
added to the books, though some 4300
applications for new membership were
received—obviously other workers were
anxiohs to “get in on a good thing.”
For the week ended May 5, 1947, which
can be taken as a typical one, 5143
watersiders worked in the port of Sydney,
and only 818 of them received less than
£B, while 1942 were in the £lO to £l5
group, and others earned up to £lB.
During the same period in the port of
Melbourne, 3581 watersiders worked, of
whom 1688 drew from £lO to £l5 each,
1099 were in the £l5 to £2O bracket, and
316 received more than £2O each. The
higher earnings in Melbourne are ex-
plained by the fact that the second shift
there is from 8 p.m. to 7 a.m. with pay
at the rate of £3 12s. 9d., whereas in
Sydney the second shift is from 5 p.m. to
11 p.m., with pay at the rate of £1 16s,
4id.
Those on the Sydney roster who work
44 hours —8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday to
Friday and 8 a.m. to noon on Saturday—
receive £8 17s. lOd. One extra three-
hour shift, from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m., would
raise the contents of the pay envelope to
£9 16s. By working 54 hours in six
night-shifts—from 9 p.m. to 7 a.m., start-
ing 9 p.m. Sunday and finishing 7 a.m.
Saturday—the pay envelope would be
swelled to £2O 12s. 3d.
In Sydney the labor force on the water-
front is inadequate, overaged and in-
efficient; and the union is using its
monopoly powers to prevent the position
being remedied. Among the things that
would help to ease the situation are (1)
a labor force large enough to permit of
continuous work ; (2) greater mobility
of labor —co-operation of the union in
permitting labor to be switched from one
job to another in the same class of work ;
(3) increased mechanisation of the
wharves ; and (4) introduction of the
secret ballot in all matters involving
stoppage of work. These things involve
major questions of economic policy, and
are therefore the responsibility of the
Government, which has adopted the role
of economic guardian.
Shareholders in the Queensland
National Bank, over 75 p.c. of whom have
agreed to the merger with the National
Bank of Australasia (B. 2/4/’47), will
be asked presently to amend the co.’s
articles to permit of early completion of
the deal. They will then receive five
f.-p. £1 National shares for each f.-p. £5
Q.N. share. Q.N. shareholders who have
not already done so are asked by the co.
to forward their assent and share certi-
ficates immediately. Those unable to
convert for legal or other reasons are
to be paid cash at the rate of £8 for
each £5 Q.N. share. The deal is a very
satisfactory one for Q.N. shareholders,
who can see a 20 p.c. increase in dividend
income, a stronger net tangible backing
and substantial gain in the market value
of their investment.
* * ♦ *
The 82-year-old Bank of Adelaide has
issued a statement refuting recent
rumors of a likely merger with another
bank. “Your bank renders a most useful
and comprehensive service, particularly
to the State of South Australia, where it
is the only private bank governed entirely
within the State,” "says the chairman.
There always has been a good deal of
State loyalty in banking throughout the
Commonwealth. The Adelaide is one of
the few banks in Australia which didn’t
close their doors during the economic
blizzard of the early 1890’s. Paid capital
is now £1,250,000 in £lO shares paid to
£s—the other £5 is a reserve liability
callable only in the event of liquidation —
and it has the support and assistance of
£1,052,547 of visible reserves. Divs. have
averaged 5.2 p.c. over the last decade.
At the current price of £7 16s. 6d. the
scrip yields 3.5 p.c. on a 5j p.c. div. basis.
* * * ♦
Sydney Water Board’s £BOO,OOO p.c.
20-year loan at par (page 7 of this issue
of The Bulletin) was oversubscribed
within five days. The issue, which is
guaranteed by the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment and is a trustee investment in
Queensland, N. S. Wales and Tasmania,
was underwritten by lan Potter and Co.,
the Melbourne brokers.
* * * *
Resigning from General Motors-
Holdens last month after 13 years as
managing-director, L. J, Hartnett made
it clear that he hoped “to take further
part in the industrial growth of Aus-
tralia.” Whilst absent on a five-months’
visit to England and America, he has been
nominated to fill a vacancy on the board
of Kelly and Lewis, Ltd. Simultaneously,
the latter co. announces plans for an
ambitious programme of expansion,
which will involve doubling the present
paid capital. The Treasury has been
asked to approve an issue of £200,000 in
new shares: of which 94,000 are 5 p.c.
second prefs. of £1 at par; and 106,000
are £1 ords., to be issued at a premium
not yet disclosed. All the ords. will be
offered to existing ord. shareholders,
whilst present pref. holders also will have
“some priority” in the allotment of new
prefs. Only in 1939 did* the public be-
come interested in this Springvale (Vic.)
engineering business, though it is now
in its fiftieth year. It has eight almost
wholly-owned subsidiaries as well as an
independent offspring, K. L. Tractors.
Ltd., born last year. The parent manu-
factures centrifugal pumps, air compres-
sors, internal-combustion engines. Pro-
ducts of the subsidiaries include gene-
rators, agricultural machinery, repe-
tition parts and laundry machinery.
K. L. Tractors, Ltd., is construct-
ing factories at Hobart and Spring-
vale, where it will make tractors ot
a type previously imported by the parent.
It recently announced a call of ss. each
on the shares, making them paid up to
15s. —on the market they are priced
around 13s. lOd. Kelly and Lewis’s own
ord. shares have remained unaffected to
date by the issue proposals ; investors are
presumably waiting until the Treasury
hurdle is cleared and amount of the
premium is known. At 295. 9d., yield is
5.4 p.c. on the 8 p.c. div. which has been
paid regularly since 1941.
* * * *
Extension of Ansett Transport Indus-
tries, Ltd., into the hotel business (B.
19/3/’47) has proceeded apace during
May. In N.S.W., leases of hotels were
bought at Tenterfield and Bateman’s Bay,
raising the total of leases and freeholds
held in that State to eight. Most have
been purchased for transfer to other
sites—it is hoped within three months to
begin building the first of a chain of
modern hotels designed especially for
tourists. In Tasmania, freehold of the
Lufra at Eaglehawk Neck and lease of
the Imperial in Hobart have been
acquired. Co. proposes to build on at
least three other sites in this State, and,
as in N.S.W., there will be an early
commencement. Other leases obtained
lately were those of the Wellington at
Canberra and the Bull and Mouth at
Stawell (Vic.). The latter is for 20 years,
and improvements requiring £12,500 will
be carried out. Negotiations are in hand
for still more hotels in South Australia,
Queensland and N.S.W. All these pur-
chases are being conducted by the sub-
sidiary, Pioneer Tourist Hotels Pty., Ltd.
On ’Change, Ansett’s ords. have moved
up to about 255. lOd. (from 235. 3d. be-
fore the new issue), giving an effective
yield of 4.6 p.c. on basis of last year’s
6 p.c. dividend,
« ♦ * *
Hard economic factors are taking a
hand to arrest, if not reverse, the north-
ward drift of population in Maoriland,
and there’s an even chance that the South
Island might be able to hold its present
ratio of one-third of the total. Seems
like putting the clock back half a century
to northerners. Eighty years ago, in the
gold-rush days, the population balance
was almost exactly the reverse of today.
Now it is southern hydro-electric power
and a labor market less hard-pressed than
in the north that is swinging the pen-
dulum again. So a growing stream of
manufactures should soon be added to
the bulky grain and potato shipments
from south to north.


>«sssjr
fi
<B*
\S*f
/■^
ZSA
"vN
WT^
■Nr*
A
Vi
A
m
AN EFFICIENT SERVANT
FOR ABOUT
A PENNY A WEEK
if s 4k® Aiira®im®
HOME CLEANER
Yesi
. We knew the moment you saw the Airzone brand
on this new home cleaner that you would know it must be good.
You see, the Airzone brand name means so much to us, that we just
couldn’t afford to build an inferior cleaner—and sell it under Aus-
tralia’s best known radio and electrical brand name Airzone. That’s
just commonsense, isn’t it?—-so you need have no doubts about the
quality and long-lasting wearing capacity of this new design hoju©
cleaner from Australia’s foremost radio-electrical factory—Airzone.
WE HAVE MADE IT POWERFUL— Enough power to
clean out all those hard-to-get-at corners in less time than
the usual vacuum cleaner . . . And we made it— QUIET
—because we know you don’t like the head-splitting hum
of most cleaners. LlGHT —because no woman should
do a navvy’s job in the house carrying a cumbersome
machine about from room to room. EASY TO HANDLE
—because apart from lightness every attachment is designed
for balanced control. SAFE —because safety is vital to any
electrical power product—this Airzone Home Cleaner is
double insulated—tested for absolute safety under all
working conditions. ADAPTABLE: With every Airzone
Home Cleaner come attachments—for every cleaning need.
You won’t need ALL the fitments, all the tifne, but they
are there—whenever and wherever you find use for one or
all of them.
JL
Straight Extension Tube.
Straight Extension Tube.
Polishing Mop.
Soft Round Brush.
Hinged Floor Nozzle—ad-
justs easily to position of
greatest suction.
6. Large Oval Brush.
7. Small Floor or Picture
Rail Nozzle.
8. Flexible Insulated Lead.
9. Rubber upholstery
Nozzle.
10. Flexible Suction Hose.
There are wholesale distributors and dealers in all States. If you
do not know who is your nearest dealer Write to Airzone direct.
PRICE £2l-0-0
Slightly higher in West Australia and North Queensland.
IT MUST BE GOOD
—it is good —because
it’s an Airzone elec-
trical production and
it cleans cleaner, faster
and easier for . .
about A PENNY PER
WEEK.
dfdfdfd
Manufactured by
AIRZONE (1931) PTY. LIMITED
A DIVISION OF ELECTRICITY METER & ALLIED INDUSTRIES, LTD.
168-170 PARRAMATTA ROAD, AUBURN, N.S.W.
DOUBLE INSULATED SAFETY UNIT
IRZONES
DOUBLE
INSULATED
SAFETY
UNIT
ELECTRIC
HOME CLEANER


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Every time I read of these
waves which climb up out of the ocean
and swamp a ship or a shore I’m re-
minded of a night at Tapalin on the mid-
Murray when the 1917 flood was at its
full. The homestead was on an abrupt
cliff and below it was the fowlhouse,
which, though that flood was a record ?
managed to stay about a foot or so clear
of the water. One September night we
were awakened by yells of distress from
the fowls and surged forth to see most
of the poultry flapping and squawking out
on the flood and the fowlhouse pushed
over. Moonlight and hurricane lamps
showed that a wave had rolled down the
river and swamped the chookery, and
next morning the gums showed that it
must have been four feet high. No
steamer passed that night and there was
no wind or storm —anyhow, neither of
those agencies could have raised such a
wave on the Murray thereabouts. It
caused a deal of speculation among the
hands, and the boss’s son wrote to the
papers about it and there was some
talk of applying for a lifeboat licence or
something, but shortly afterwards a
plague of water-hens hit the place and we
were far too busy chasing the things out
of the kitchen to worry about tyaves.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Back in the placid ’2o’s
I sometimes went with budding scientists
to a snug hut set apart for their use in one
of our all-too-few national parks. There
the faithful would grovel and clamber
after orchids, or stalk the wary lyrebird,
or note the private affairs of bowerbirds,
while I cooked powerful dishes I pre-
ferred not to introduce at home. This,
too, was research of a kind, and here as
well as in the biological field some know-
ledge was gained by patient observation,
while some came by chance, A grey
possum patronised us, and when chairs
were pushed back from the great log fire
and pipes were drawing well, he would
come down to the table, munch the bread
left there for him, then climb back to a
beam across the warmest corner. One
cold night when a glowing fire was
accelerating the soporific effect of a par-
ticularly noble dumpling and no word
had been spoken for some time, the
calm was shattered by a brisk burst of
machine-gun fire- from somewhere near
the washup bench. Some scientists leapt
in the air, older hands dived for cover,
and the possum above shot out and was
almost airborne when he reached the
top of the biggest turpentine outside. In-
vestigation ended in the big tin dish—
and thus it was discovered that the drop-
pings of a grey possum are hard, dry
pellets like unto those of sheep,
# * * *
“The 0.D.”: Apparently “Exkewex”
(B. 14/5 A’47) is a bloke who easily
loses himself especially in argument,
since he won’t keep to the track.
What the devil blacked-out ships or foggy
paddocks had to do with my statement I
don’t know, and the claim that north
of Rockhampton the sun can get to the
south in mid-summer, even if true, doesn’t
alter the fact that, for all practical pur-
poses, the sun is always in the north in
this country. I was announcing mystifica-
tion over another Aboliar’s statement that
“if one doesn’t take notice of the lay of
the sun on the previous day’s travel it is
easy to start off in the wrong direc-
tion in the morning.” I said, and*re-
peat, that any bushman who is a
bushman automatically knows his
four compass points, the “lay” of the
sun and where he is going. As for
“featureless” paddocks, foggy or other-
wise, a landscape, whether in mountains
or mallee, on coasts or claypans, is only
featureless to those who have no sense
of observation, no sense .of locality and
no memory,
*'♦ * *
“Frank Mauri”; On lonely Aua Island
(n.-w. Pacific) a Micronesian woman,
married to a German planter, had a
strange influence over the wild birds.
Standing in the open, arms outspread, she
would make soft whistles and clucking
noises. Dozens of birds would fly down
to perch on her arms and shoulders, all
showing sjgns of excitement. She could
give no explanation of her powers, said
the sounds she made had no special sig-
nificance and lamented the fact that she
was unable to impart the gift to any of
her large family.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We were felling some
big bull mallee and pine out west of
Cowangie (Vic.) and Mat’s belt fihally
reached the useless stage, so he hitched
up his pants with a length of rope. A
neat dresser, the dangling rope ends an-
noyed him, so he worked out a slip-
knot that allowed him to run the loose
end through the loop at the front, then
round his waist again to the loop, allow-
ing for free movement of his body.
He then improved on this by using the
loose rope on his hips as a carrier for
the axe while using both hands to lift a
log or pull a big branch aside. He had
“Guess who?"
the axe swinging on his hips when the
boss appeared, with his wife, and drove
towards us. Mat stepped away from the
tree, the axe handle got stuck in a fork,
the rope gave and Mat’s pants fell down.
So did he and managed to get himself
rehabilitated in time. But the thought of
what might have happened haunted him so
that he walked nine miles into Cowangie
that night and bought himself a new belt.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Have always
contended that cats, instead of keeping
mice down, merely keep them about the
place. Now I have proof of it. Early
last spring a friend in an outer
Melbourne - suburb shot 42 cats around
his house and his acre of scrub
garden, yet in the course of the
following' week his family trapped 67
mice in the house and outbuildings. How-
ever, the real reason for the feline blitz —
apart from the “catmospherics” on roof-
tops each night—was that the little tigers
were killing and frightening all birds.
Every morning feathers were found on
the verandah mats until only a pair of
jackasses remained. But with the dis-
trict’s cats underground 14 different
species of feathered creatures built in the
garden, and today the place is a natural
aviary with a first-class bird orchestra
always on hand. What use cats are I
cannot conceive.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: I’ve seen water
goannas in the Mitchell and other rivers
of the Cape York Peninsula and in odd
waterways in New Guinea, but I never
knew they existed in Victoria. Recently
in a boat from the head of the Malla-
coota Lakes in East Gippsland we
entered the gum-fringed, high-hill-clad
Wallagaraugh—despite a fire-scorching
still the Cabbage Garden’s least-known
and most picturesque river—and, all the
11 miles upstream to where a waterfall
is a bar to navigation, there was a water
go. every hundred yards or so. They
were mostly about two feet in length, a
shiny dark-green color. At our ap-
proach they raised their sleek heads in-
quiringly, looked for an instant and
then, plopping into the black wafers of
the river, swam off underwater like
young crocs. With treefems and lilly-
pilly shading the water-worn smooth
rocks they were at first a little hard to
see. Any member of the Council know
this amphibian?
* * * *
Gravelsnatcher”: Shortly after read-
ing “Prof.’s” assurance (B. 30/4/’47) that
the most effective way to move a stub-
born cow is to toss your head at it as
though you were going to run it through
with your imaginary horns,” a mate and
I, ’roo-shooting out from York (W.A.),
came across a bunch of steers full of
confidence in a similar method of mov-
ing humans. Admittedly it wasn’t a fair
test for “Prof.’s” theory, which, I pre-
sume, rests on the assumption that you
beat the animal to the employment of the
technique; but, discussing the proposi-
tion from the safety of our respective
branches, we were unanimous in our
determination to postpone a trial until
a more favorable opportunity. Mean-
while we failed to observe the approach
of an elderly lady until she entered the
small clearing surrounding our trees.
She had a billycan full of mushrooms in
one hand, an umbrella in the other, and
the blood of pioneers in her veins; and,
sizing up the situation with heartening
alacrity, in defiance of a warning shouted
by us and endorsed by our opponents,
she advanced on those steers, opening and
shutting the brolly rapidly. We were
on the ground, thanking her, before the
crashes of the retreating steers had died
away. The bush denizens of those parts
are still chuckling over the spectacle of
two men, armed with rifles, being
escorted to their car by a brolly-wielding
old lady exercising the right to roam
the country she’d helped to tame before
they were born.
“Mug”: That idea of paying animals
with their own coin (B. 30/4/’47) works
all right. I now stagger our Jersey bull
with an outsize in snorts and leave Mum’s
pet maggie pop-eyed by ruffling my
imaginary feathers, sharpening my beak
and letting fly some unholy squarks. But
my greatest triumph came when I out-
played the savage mong at the post-
office. That brute always picks me, so
the other evening when I spotted him
coming I quickly dropped to all fours,
ran a hand forward through my black
hair and advanced belligerently. The
mong contributed a growl. I got home
with a louder one. Then,‘stretching out
my muzzle, I sniffed a couple of times
and surprised him with a challenging
bark. Before he could recover I charged
in as fast as my wincing knees would
stand the gravel, but before I could de-
cide between a nip on the leg and a
throat hold hang me if the mong didn’t
let out a yelp and streak for the kitchen.
Old Charlie reckons it’s the rock he
landed on the mong’s rump that did it,
but, cripes, you can’t put that over me.
* * ■* *
“Don Drone”: “Wippegong’s” par. (B.
2/4/’47) brings to mind an old recipe for
“generating bees.” A fine bull-calf was
killed and buried with one horn project-
ing above the ground. After the carcass
was well rotted, the horn was cut off,
thereby releasing large numbers of fine
vigorous bees (we now call them Drone
Flies).
* * * *
“Stokehole Sam”: One of the most
uncanny things is the way in which high-
pressure steam, which one would expect
to be absolutely non-abrasiVe, will eat
away so resistant a substance as heavy
flint glass. Firing water-tube boilers
carrying a head of 200 pounds and over
one became accustomed to the thick plass
water-gauges suddenly exploding and
showering scraps around. In normal
working these tubes would be filled half-
way up with boiling water, the upper half
with high-pressure steam. Usually, too,
the water level would show a slight up
and down motion which reacted, though
the action was not visible, on the sur-
mounting column of steam. It was this
upper portion which invariably burst.
Examination would show that the glass,
otherwise scratchable only by a diamond
or a chilled-steel point, and soluble only
in hydrofluoric acid, had been worn into
deep interior -grooves, simply by the slow
movement of superheated molecules of
hydrogen and oxygen at a pressure of
between 12 and 13 atmospheres.
* * * *
“Bo”: Big Sam was back in the town-
ship after having been out felling timber
for two months, and his attempts to get
a peaceful skinful in Mcßorie’s bar were
being constantly interrupted by a skinny
little man who was full of truculence.
As the big fellow got “riper” his patience
wore thin at sight of the pest dancing
around under his nose, shaping up, and
at last he gave the offender a push that
spun him half-way along the bar. At
that a large bullet-headed person told
Sam to hit one his size. Sam obliged.
Two minutes after the fight began the
champion of small men’s rights would
have been gazing at the ceiling as he
listened to the twittering birdies had he
been able to open his eyes. As the
victor stepped back he tripped over the
skinny little pest who was on hands and
knees. As he got up again it was seen
that Sam was white, and his look of fear
was unmistakable. “G’ bloomey!” he
said shakily. “I’ll git pasted for this
when I get home. The only bottle o’
rum Mcßorie had, an’ it was the one
the missus ordered me to get.” Sam’s
missus was sft. lin., 7st. 61b.
* * 4 *
“Zake”: A bush belief that refuses to
die a natural death is that a snake can
be persuaded to leave a temporary refuge
and invite a waddy on its spinal column
merely by scraping a fiddle or playing a
concertina or even making noises on a
gumleaf, purely on the assumption that
the reptilian family are enthusiastic music
lovers. More often than not the harmony
will be ignored. On a property out from
Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) I saw a snake
disappear behind a lot of boxes in a
room. The owner tried the gramophone
for a while with no results. It was when
thd missus started up the sewing machine
that Joe came out wanting to shake hands.
But perhaps that was Joe’s idea of a
good tune.
“Hanko”: A goanna has no need to
seek an antidote to counteract the venom
of a snakebite (B. 23/4/’47), simply be-
cause a snake can’t poison it or any
other cold-blooded creature. Anyhow,
the snake is a rather helpless creature.
It can’t bite, it must strike to force in
its fangs and so release venom, and it
only carries poison for a short period of
the year. Joe is dangerous only when
he’s got a full supply of venom and a
sitting shot. As for his puncturing a
goanna, don’t make me laff; no Blake
was ever nimble enough to do that. High-
light of a slitherers’ derring-do is the
capture of a mooning frog.
* * * ♦
“Billets”: Just in case “Blime’s” Mrs.
Sanders (B. 30/4/’47) might be tempted
to spoil more of her cups in the effort to
deceive her lord as to the strength of the
anaemic tea, let me say that a piece of
washing soda the size of a grain of wheat
dropped into the teapot will produce a
taste and blackness sufficient to satisfy
the most hardened tannin addict.
* * * *
“Greenhide Bob”: I thought it a mag-
nificent effort, as a raw newchum, to steer
through the dusky mulga scrub from
corner to corner of a 10-mile square pad-
dock —no track, flat as a pancake and
almost invisible 50 yards from me and
my horse. I had followed the direction
of Billy Webeck, the musterers’ boss,
minute by minute, allowing for the tran-
sit of the stars across the sky from east
to west. I picked out what I took to be
Venus, low down on the western horizon,
and a bright star far in front of me to
check by, and plunged into my first real
test as a bushman. When I reached the
fence, near my camp, more than 10 miles
from where I entered the bush, the mare’s
head was over the gate. So I proudly
announced my graduation to Billy and the
musterers at supper. Billy stroked his
mo and asked: “Did you ride the bay
mare, like I told you?” I said I had, and
noticed his sly grin. Later Monkeystrap
told me the mare was Barney’s. Barney
had lived at that camp two years as
boundary ridpr
RINGBARKED.
Gone long ago his hoard
Of gum-blossom, nut and bough.
No b'ee or feasting bird
Cares to visit him now.
Only the bull-dog ants
Scurry about his base,
Or a lone windhover haunts
Some high perching place.
At times the magpies use
Him as a pedestal;
Broadcast their morning news,
Concerts at even-fall.
Or a phantom cuckoo grieves
That spring might soon go by;
Otherwise life just leaves
Him alone with the sky.
Twenty years he has lacked
The leaves that shimmered and laughed—;
How many gales have rocked
Since then that silvery shaft?
Yet, when the bush is drawn
Into the sky’s disputes,
I have seen green kings torn
Up by their mighty roots,
While, last of his tribe, alone
He stands upon the rise
Pointing a useless bone
At the uncaring skies.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“E. 2”: The stock and station agent
had business with one Mick Boaden, of
whom he had heard but had never seen,
Mick, a bachelor, rarely being found off
his place. He drove the car up to the
two-roomed shack, followed the beaten
track to the back door and knocked. A
thin cove with a lantern jaw opened the
door and regarded him curiously. “What
might y’ be wantin’?” he asked. “Mr.
Boaden, if he’s home,” the agent said.
“Could be,” drawled the other. “Try at
the front.” Then he slammed the door.
Mystified, the agent wandered round to
the front door and knocked. It opened
almost immediately, and Lantern Jaw
again confronted him. “Yairs?” he in-
quired, “Er —I called to see Mr.
Boaden,” the nonplussed agent ex-
plained. “That’s me,” nodded L.J.
“Well, I’ve got a truck of cattle waitin’
fr Mick Boaden.” “Mick Boaden?”
“Yes.” “Well, hop round t’ the back,”
said Boaden. “That was Mick Boaden y’
was talkin’ to there.” And the front
door slammed.
* * * *
“F.L.”: Don’t know if it was accident
or otherwise, but the wombat was brows-
ing on the bank of’the stream when the
dog charged from the scrub. In the mix-
up that followed the high bank collapsed
and both landed in the deep pool. The
hound promptly swam ashore, but the
wombat sank to the bottom and walked
across to climb up the shingle beach on
the other side. Average depth was about
6ft. Can’t wombats swim, or was this
one trying evasive tactics?
* * * *
“Prop”: Compared with the Australian
product the Japanese landscape color-
scheme (B. 23/4/’47) is a poor show.
For a dinkum color festival you want to
come to this corner of S.A. Here is the
picture: in the background a mountain
range, ink-blue, sombre and grand. In
the middle distance a few dark hills of
naked rock, and smoky levels of scrub.
In front of these a line of blue-green pine,
mysterious with the shadows of dusk. In
the immediate foreground an uneven
ranking of low trees and tall shrubs,
naked except for the incomparable
blossom. Bare brown limbs blaze
against the dark background in a
smother of pearl-grey and rose pink.
“Nice bit of crazy-paving, eh, Bert!”
This is no subtle sprinkling of tiny
blooms but a lavish heaping of color
masses that seem to weigh down the
trees and to swell the branches. You stand
and soak it in, the color and the con-
trast. When you can stand it no longer
you clap your hands and the thousands
of blossoms sweep with excited cries up
the sky, a thing not quickly to be for-
gotten. And you wonder when Aus-
tralia will have Galah Festivals, and
whether the day will ever come when the
big-footed namesake of the glorious birds
who sneaks out to do a spot of massacre
with shotgun or poisoned wheat will be
hanged to the nearest black oak-tree.
“D.R.H.”; “Zake’s” juvenile magpie
(B. 23/4/’47) had reason for his gri-
maces. Under the microscope the hairs of
some of those hirsute caterpillars are
seen to be fitted with minute barbs. The
infinitely sharp hairs penetrate easily, the
barbs engage, and the brittle hairs break
off, which is the reason for the irritation
“Z.” will experience if he fools with a
caterpillar nest.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Mum’s always had a fad for
growing things round the place, and after
years of seeing the smaller things fade out
in the dry spells, she finally decided on
shrubs. Thereafter, things with unpro-
nounceable names were put in every-
where, till a man was kept busy remem-
bering the whereabouts of the straight-
and-narrows that led where he wanted
to go. “We haven’t a nice house like the
other/oik about,” Mum would point out,
“so we will have the best garden. I’m
sure no one else has a rhododendron like
that one of mine. I paid two guineas for
it,” she’d add proudly, “and I’ll get more
shrubs when the store pays me the egg
money.” So through years of hard labor
she spent her savings on exotic shrubs
or hunted bush specimens, till there isn’t
a space left round the blooming place
where a bloke can get a look who it is
riding up the road. The other day a
neighbor called, and I spotted Mum
showing her around. “Oh, yes, I’ll be
able to get a root of that,” the visitor
gushed delightedly, thrusting back the
foliage of one of Mum’s specials. “You
have some nice shrubs here. I’ll come
over one day and get slips from all of
them.” Gripes, these women get me!
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Wrongly called a love-
bird (the true love-bird has no tail or, at
most, a mere stub) the budgerigar is prob-
ably the smallest member of the parrot
family, and it possesses most of the quaint
characteristics of its bigger relatives —
not excluding the ability to talk and
whistle. But the peculiarity that has
made the budgerigar famous wherever
cage-birds are kept is the amazing range
of colors evolved, and still being de-
veloped, from the original green.
The Japs are credited with having
been the first to discover the possi-
bilities of the birds by breeding the
first yellow; but the story that the end
was achieved by keeping generation after
generation of birds in yellow cages
within yellow-painted rooms, with every-
thing from the feed-container to the coat
of the attendant of the same color, is
most probably a myth. Blues, mauves and
cobalts were bred in Australia, England
and Europe; then came silvers, grey-
wings, albinoes, lutinoes and a host of
others until today there must be hun-
dreds of different shades, colors and
markings. A fortune still awaits the
man who can produce a red or black
budgerigar; I once saw a black!
Just as I was getting appropriately ex-
cited about it the owner admitted, with-
out a blush: “I had too many cocks so
I thought I’d turn half-a-dozen into hens
and sell off a few pairs. With a cupful
of water stained by Condy’s Crystals I
was dabbing the blue wattles of the cocks
so that they would look brown like the
hens’ wattles when that little blighter
fell into the mixture. Now I’m wonder-
ing whether a bloke could be had up for
fraud if bfe sold die onl Y black hndgen-
S ar m * world- * *
“Mrs P.”: Nix on importing hawks
f rom Cairo to clean up the prawns at
La Perouse (B. 23/4/’47)! Sparrows and
starlings daily show infamous example
of what the better-class English bird can
do in a new land. I’d pin my faith on
the crow—he’d eat an abo. Camping at
Wilpena Pound (S.A.), I was warned to
hide the soap from Kelly, and thought it
rather a joke. Returning from a tramp
through the beauty spot I found the tea
towels, which had been hung to dry on
the malice, in shreds, and Kelly, thwarted
of the soap, jeering fit to kill himself.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: The other day I took
from a heap of fencing-posts piled on
an open gibber plain the prettiest and
fiercest little animal I know. One of the
fat-tailed pouched mice, he is an alert
little bloke with a long nose tapering to
a tiny black point and having beneath it
a surprisingly long mouth well equipped
with sharp teeth. He has large and pro-
“I've got a craving for pork!"
minent black eyes, with black spectacles
round them, set in a fawn-colored face;
his whiskers are black and his ears are
grey and erect, except when he folds
them down while resting. He wears a
white shirt front with snowy gloves and
shoes; his coat varies between brown
and grey and is made from the finest and
deepest of furs, slate-grey beneath,
brownish at the tips. His tail is thick-
ened and padded with fat. In captivity
he becomes active at night, running round
his cage, tearing savagely at scraps of
raw mutton or devouring the live grass-
hoppers which are a large part of his
natural diet. Handsome, bold and lively
though he is, his chief point of interest
is his very perfect adaptation to a not-
very-kind environment. Most small ani-
mals, like the house mouse, die if deprived
of food for a few hours —their small
bodies lose heat very rapidly and there-
fore need a constant stoking with fresh
fuel. The little pouched mouse, how-
ever, lives in a land where food supplies
are at best precarious, where bad weather
or drought affects the insect population
drastically. To get*round all this the
tough little Australian beastie wears a
very thick coat to conserve heat and
stores up surplus tucker, camel fashion,
in the form of fat. For his courage and
for his economic value he is worthy of
admiration.
* * ♦ »
“Colbun”: Viewed in a shop window
peanuts don’t suggest anything in the way
of botanical or historical interest, but
their unassuming appearance veils some
curious facts. Originating in South
America, the plant was introduced into
West Africa by Portuguese slavetraders in
the sixteenth century, and the nuts used
as the most compact and nutritious food
then known for keeping their negro
captives in good condition durmg the
voyage to oversea slave markets.
Magellan brought it to the East Indies
and Philippines, whence it was taken to
Japan, China and India, there to become
an important staple of diet for millions
of people. Modern research has shown
that a dozen average peanuts contain as
much energy-producing material as loz.
of sugar, -joz. of butter, lioz. of bread,
or 3oz. of lean meat. The plant has the
remarkable habit of burying its fruit-
stalk ends some inches underground soon
after flowering, thus protecting the de-
veloping fruit from predatory insects,
birds and animals. The Australian pea-
nut industry is becoming an important
feature in national agriculture—the 1947
crop is expected to yield at least 20,000
tons from 53,000 acres under cultivation,
mainly in Queensland.
* * * *
“Bo”: McGuinness was just coming
up from the harness-shed to dinner when
he saw the small stranger standing
patiently outside the kitchen door hold-
ing under his arm a square brown-paper
parcel, “Y’ lookin’ for anyone?” he
asked as he came up. The little man
nodded in an abashed sort of way.
“Well,” he began in a shy voice, at the
same time unwrapping his parcel, “I have
here some beautifully-illustrated mess-
ages.” He pulled out a crude painting
which depicted a gentleman toppling into
a hole in the ground, and underneath was
the text “Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall
therein.” “I am selling these for the
ridiculously cheap price of ten and six,”
went on the meek-looking salesman in
his gentle voice. “You see” “I ain’t
interested,” quoth the McGuinness
starkly. The other pulled out another
painting, with the text “Wine is a mocker,
strong drink is raging,” suitably—or un-
suitably—depicted in water-colors. “Now,
this one” began the meek one. “I don’t
want any,” said McGuinness doggedly.
“YTe on’y wastin’ y’r time.” The small
man pulled out one depicting how faith-
fully were the wounds of a friend, but
when his “prospect” shook his head he
slammed it back, whisked the string
around his parcel and snarled “Y’re a
bloody heathen. You haven’t got a bit o’
blasted religion in your big carcass!”
Then bolted for the gate,
* * * *
“Naturala”: Mention of vast sheets of
Forminifera encountered in our northern
seas (B. 30/4/’47) calls for a little ex-
planation as to how these tiny molluscs,
among the lowliest forms of life, come to
abandon so habitually their microscopic
shells. Classified zoologically as Proto-
zoa, these molluscs are closely related to
the well-known amoeba, which has
secured wide recognition by its primi-
tive method of propagation, the adult
cell dividing into two daughter cells,
which again divide, and so on ad infini-
tum. The Forminifera and their cousins
the Radiolaria propagate in the same
way, only that being housed in a non-
elastic shell the two daughter shells im-
mediately find the parental shell too small,
on which it is abandoned while they en-
case themselves in shells of their own.
And since this dividing takes place under
favorable conditions every four or five
hours, there is a constant rain of billions
of these dust-like shells descending to
the sea bed. The finest kinds of marble
were made from this stuff. During mil-
lions of years thick beds of such shells
were laid down. Elevated by earth con-
vulsions, brought beneath vast blankets
of molten lava, and melted under tre-
mendous weight and pressure, the myriad
homes of the earth’s tiniest molluscs thus
became the stone which has enchanted
the aesthetically-minded from the dawn of
Greek art downwards.
« * * *
“Hanko”: Choom was turning the
grindstone for the boss. “Water,” yelped
the trump. Choom fumbled with the
can, jerked the stone to a bumping halt
and sluiced water in all directions. “Keep
turnin’, blast y’,” howled the boss, “an’
give it water.” Completely flustered now,
Choom rode the handle and slopped a
gill or so of water into the trump’s waist-
coat pocket. The boss sprang aside and
dropped the axe on his toe. “Hey,” he
yelled at me. “Turn this flamin’ stone.”
I blundered blindly to the grindstone and
hung over its handle like a wet bag,
“Sufferin’ cats, you can’t even turn,” the
boss began; and then he broke into a
laugh that set the fowls to high-pitched
and concerted cacklings.
HILLS AT WARCOWIE.
When autumn leaves have fallen from -the vine
I will be gone. But though my way must pass
Beyond the hills, still will I see the shine
Of seeds all silver in the drying grass.
The sunset clouds, when evening shadows sleep
Wrapped in the mallee in the old, old hills,
Will still be flying where the stock-route spills
Red heaving hordes of dusty, travelling sheep.
When, failing one by one, bird calls subside
In the grey ashes of the countryside,
At night, afar, I’ll hear the hill-winds blow
Wave after wave of dark and turbulent pine
That beat and moan on broken rock. ' For
though
The red lanes of the stock-routes will be mine,
Where round the savage upflung range the flags
And ragged banners of sand-armies fly
Their warning to those gibber-plains that lie
Beneath the wedge-tailed eagles from the crags,
My heart will see the mountains in the rain,
And hear the curlews crying on the plain.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


team up
f
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
coy. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND, I 863) • '
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, WACCA,. MOREE, HENTY AND HAY
The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop, the
MARS Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. All essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - - all gear teeth are generated.
dfc.-:
mm
U
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
df
df
d
fd
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd;
Victoria— Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne ;
Q’liAnd— lntercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane; W.A.—The
Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth ; Tasmania— Charles Davies,
Ltd., Hobart; N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd., Auckland;
Calcutta— Boss Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.; Bombay
Province— R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay; Hongkong
and SiiANGiiAi-The Fast Asiatic Co., Ltd.
I
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Qld. of
“Meehanite”
Metals
yT
J
»' ‘i
(Regd.)
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
A L BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL Nf
-♦RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS 4 .
I
$ 5
Sh
I£ you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL BANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
ivNOS»3d boj asnow sonst xnvb ivana#*
AL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL Nf
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing the Small Clip.
“Murrawong”: The job of the classer
is to prepare the clip according to market
requirements and to get the best possible
return for the owner. The definition of
a small clip varies according to the view-
point of owner and classer. In one case
a flock of 500 could be handled in the
shed, whereas in another 1500 could not
be classed to advantage on the property.
Five hundred heavy-cutting wethers of
the same age and mark might be expected
to yield 15 to 20 bales. The proportion
of fleece would depend on the depth of
skirting necessary. On the average, 10
to 12 bales of fleece might be expected
and out of this a good bulky line of AAA
should be got for the Big Lots catalogue.
On the other hand, 1500 sheep might
comprise a mixture of merinos of vary-
ing ages, crossbreds and comebacks of
a mixture of B. Leicester, Romney and
Dorset Horn, the largest straight line
of which might not number more than
200, and they would probably arrive in
the shed scattered through other types.
To handle such a mixed mob the classer
would* need about 20 bins and piece-
pickers that know how to sort to quality
—both circumstances as rare in a small
shed as hens’ teeth—and he could not
expect to make any line of more than
three to four bates.
Every fleece has a maximum value.
To get that value from the buyer these
requirements must be observed: (1) The
wool must rfeach the Big Lots catalogue
—there must be at least five bates in each
line ; (2) It must be classed so that the
extreme limits of length of staple, spin-
ning quality and conditions are within
manufacturing requirements. The classer
must know what these limits are. The
more a line is forced so does its value at
auction decrease.
Each type of wool demands special
classing treatment. A high-class spinners’
wool from the clean districts will bring
high prices if carefully classed. A tender
fleece in an otherwise sound line will
wreck its chances, and so will a variation
in lengths of staple and in spinning
quality. Certain types of spinners’ wools
should not be mixed. Don’t put hogget
fleeces with those from sheep that have
been previously shorn. Don’t mix sound
and tender fleeces. Restrict thfe range of
spinning qualities in any one line—these
wools demand more specialised treat-
ment than topmaking types. Top lines
should be of warp length if possible.
These facts are mentioned, not to be-
wilder the amateur classer, but to show
how money can be lost by unskilled
handling.
- With other merino wools of topmaking
type—those carrying some burr and dust
—the limits are not so rigid. Never-
theless, each line must be made to suit the
manufacturing process for which it is best
suited. Machines are built to handle
wools of certain lengths, so don’t mix
fleeces from- 2in. to 4-2-in. staple. You
may put 64s and 70s together, but any-
thing finer or stronger should be kept
out, even though they amount to only a
couple of fleeces.
In crossbred wools, quality is the main
consideration. Although the classer may
have sufficient knowledge and material
to make good even lines, he will seldom
have a piecepicker who can distinguish
between strong and fine crossbred, let
alone to keep 50s separate. Crossbreds
should be classed through the drafting
"I want ’arf a dozen files , ’arf a dozen mauls, a bottle o' eau de
Col-og-ne, some violet ’air oil an a tin o’ ‘Crushed Pansy ’ talc.”
race before they enter the shed} and
should be shom in flocks of finej me dium
and s t ron g and the skirtings thus kept
apart
~’, , . ,
°? the
much more difficult than merino, and for
this f ason it should be left to expen-
priced classers. Fleeces are a | wa y s best
handted in the shed immediately they are
shorn, but if they cannot be classed there
*° their full value the owner wil
find * more economical to employ other
means. This applies also, to small mixed
fi ocbs which will not give lines of live
bales or more.
Buyers and brokers find it extremely
difficult to copfc with the increased flow
of small lots, and buyers have now
taken a stand and limited the number of
lots they will inspect. Some brokers are
condensing small lots of evenly classed
wools at owner’s expense to overcome the
trouble, but poorly classed or mixed;
wools have to be reclassed.
If classing in the shed will only give
a number of small lots the owner will
save money in every way by sending the
entire clip to a reliable firm for classing.
The broker will help him in his choice
if necessary. In the shed he can then
dispense with classing, skirting and piece-
picking labor. As each fleece is shorn it
should be thrown out as usual on the
table. Only dags and stains should be
removed, and the fleece should then be
carefully rolled and put straight into the
press. For preference, send the clip to
a wool-pooling firm. Such lines as will
make five bates or more are then made
and the smaller lines are built up into
Big Lots with similar types of wool from
other growers, so practically every pound
of the clip is sold to best advantage in
the Big Lots. The advantage in price,
with the cost of classing deducted is
invariably higher than will result from
home classing, and saves the owner shed
wages and many headaches.
Horse Care.
“Vulcan”: I’ve done a heap of hard
thinking about laminitis over a long
time, and I’m not satisfied with the
generally-accepted theories. Laminitis
means diseased or damaged laminae. The
lamina comprises the tissue which forms
the junction between the wall (or hoof
or horn) and the inner foot, and when
healthy must be tremendously strong,
especially to withstand the strain when
a horse is “on his toes,” exerting all his
strength. It would appear to be very
sensitive and to carry numerous small
blood vessels, and may be identified as
a clear line between sole and toe when
trimming the foot for shoeing. It will
bleed readily if cut too closely or when
the horse has run too long without shoe-
ing, or if pricked with a shoeing nail.
I don’t believe the reasons given by
“Sundowner” (B. 23/4/’47) are correct.
I believe that the condition, by the time
the average horseman has noticed it, has
become chronic and definitely incurable.
My first theory is that the seat of the
condition is in the region of the corona,
where most defects of the wall originate,
and whence they grow downward with
the wall. In this case it would probably
be caused by a knock or a kick on the
corona, or perhaps a small stake at some
remote period. I’ve always regarded
laminitis as a sort of septic condition
which rots the-laminse, allowing the inner
foot to drop and make contact with the
ground. My second theory is that the
infection can be started from the level of
the sole and work upwards and around
the foot where the horse has been kept
in filthy yards in wet country. I’ve seen
filth a couple of feet deep in a saw-
mill yard and the horses rotten from the
sole to half-way up the leg. I’ve seen
the sole rot out of one foot.
So I dispute that advice to place the
horse on swampy ground. Under such
conditions a small stick or nail driven up
into the laminae would start infection.
Where horses are regularly shod the
smith usually detects nails, etc., and re-
moves them. I have noticed, on scrap-
ing such a hole out, that the lamina in
the vicinity has rotted away. Such an
infection, if not cleaned up, would result
in time in laminitis, by which time no
cure is possible. The sole strikes the
ground instead of the wall causing in-
tense pain and lameness. No treatment
is of any avail. To work a horse in that
condition is cruelty and the only medicine
is a .303 bullet.
I doubt if the build of the horse affects
the issue. In many cases the trouble
originates in early life and develops
slowly until the horse is put into work,
when the condition is accelerated. Many
a buyer wouldn’t notice it in a young
horse. When buying, examine every foot
thoroughly, or get a smith to look them
over. A knowledgeable breeder would
quickly get rid of a young horse with
incipient laminitis. I seek no debate
with “Sundowner.” 'He has written in
good faith the same as me.
Wheat on Grassland.
“Billjim”: In S.A. there’s a significant
trend in wheatgrowing with the increas-
ing use of grassland or clover lea farming.
Because of temporary shortages of live-
stock and super, all farmers are not using
the land in the manner they’d like. Still,
S.A. Department of Agriculture sees evi-
dence of better farming practice. The
changeover has frequently been caused
by compulsion—soil erosion or decline in
fertility. In other instances it is due to
a realisation of the advantages of main-
taining a maximum of stock on a
property.
Under grassland farming the fallow for
the wheat crop is omitted from the rota-
tion and the wheat is sown on grassland
prepared in the autumn. Although many
wheatgrowers will find it hard to visualise
a system which does not include fallow
this has actually occurred and wheat crops
up to 40 bushels per acre grown on such
land. Successful in the higher-rainfall
areas, there are indications that it can be
successful in relatively dry areas.
The success of lea farming is judged
largely by the yield of wheat, • but if a
grassland crop is some bushels lower than
that grown on fallow it is still a more


For Sale.
CLIMBINO TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, 0.P.0., Sydney.
fd
11 your
dog's coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, ■won’t eat
or la out of
sort* —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
dim on a course «
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS I/fl
SKIN EOTION 2/8
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/f,
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
0
3?.
as
n Ci
ydi
Xz
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
—WARNING!
Before making a purchase ol any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes
of the Hygeia Dissoivenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation,
HYGEIA
, SANITARY CO PTY,, LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
iLS.TT.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S,A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Melnerney & Co.,
Ltd., 411 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
THE SYDNEY BOOK CLUB
Australia’s Leading Circulating Library.
Some Distinguished Publications in Circulation.
NORMANDY TO THE BALTIC, by Field-Marshal Viscount Montgomery of Alamein
EGO 8, by Charles Agate.
HEINE, A biography by Francois Fejto
BEN HALE, BUSHRANGER,
by Frank Clune.
MONTGOMERY, by Alan Moorehead.
LIFE OF OSCAR WILDE,
by Hesketh Pearson.
GOOD NIGHT SWEET PRINCE, Life
MOZART, by Alfred Einstein.
ANZAC TO AMIENS, by C. E. W. Bean.
ENGLISH SOCIAL HISTORY,
by G. M. Trevelyan.
CRIMINAL DAYS,
by Travers Humphreys.
FRIENDSHIPS ODYSSEY,
by Francois Deslisle.
of John Barrymore, by Gene Fowler.
Catalogue with terms, post-free on application.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
II
How Important Is
criQ/
• Pig-iron used by Ronaldson-Tippett' is supplied
to strict specifications and the special alloy irons con-
taining nickel and chrome poured from the cupola
and used in castings for Ronaldson-Tippett Engines
are subject to constant metallurgical control. All
castings prior to machining are cleaned, fettled and
heat-treated to eliminate internal stresses and sub-
sequent warping. Special steels are laboratory-tested
and then heat-treated in furnaces under strict pyro-
metric control to give them hardness and an ability
to perform the work expected of them.
Yes, material IS Important and the Ronaldson-
Tippett policy and practice is to use the best material
and employ the best methods thereby laying the
foundation for the superlative service which you may
expect from all Ronaldson-Tippett productions.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
QTand Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
RQNRLDSON-TIPPETT
8188
h
1
m
You can tell it’s
A "MAXIMUM'' PROPERTY!
• WELL WATERED * • BETTER CROPS
® MORE PROFITABLE
Parched land gives poor profits. You can grow splendid crops
and get good returns for far less effort with "Maximum," the
modern spray irrigation system.
You'll have water where and when you want it!
No other system can be erected and moved
with such ease and speed. "Maximum" has the
famous flexible coupling. You change pipe
positions quickly without stopping pump or
motor. Gives good coverage and cost per acre is low.
Agents: Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 2977.
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. J 1455.
Pascoe & Co., Ltd., 282 Port Road, Woodville, South Australia. M 7127.
Welling & Crossley Ry. Ltd., 143-149
Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. MX4889.
f
MANUFACTURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY
IRRIGATION CO.
■ 39-41 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY
MA 7858
Mail this coupon to Maximum Spray
Irrigation Co., or to any of the agents
listed. Learn more about "Maximum"
... how it can help you/
Name
Address
—. p i
economic proposition. Soil preparation is
cheaper, tWo cultivations as compared
with five or six, the full grazing year is
obtained from the pasture, and there are
long-term benefits bestowed by the pas-
ture in improvement of the soil and
general lifting of fertility.
The farmer on a narrow rotation
cannot change to lea farming overnight.
The fertility of depleted soils must be first
improved. Rotation must be lengthened
and the medics and clovers —seed to be
sown if necessary—encouraged by top-
dressing.
Distemper.
“J.R.D.”: During the past few months
a particularly virulent form of distemper
has taken heavy toll of dogs in country
districts. It is caused "by a germ, and
when one dog becomes affected it spreads
very rapidly to all the dogs with which
he comes in contact. The first stage is
not particularly dangerous in itself, but is
usually followed closely by further com-
plications which may kill the dog or
leave it crippled for life.
When a dog shows the familiar symp-
toms of running eyes and nose and signs
of fever it should be isolated at once and
kept warm. Tho most reliable treatment
is injection of anti-distempfer serum. The
dose depends on the severity of the attack
and the length of time the dog has been
affected. Thus the importance of early
measures cannot be overlooked.
While anti-distemper serum is fairly
successful, there are times when results
are disappointing, chiefly when a parti-
cularly virulent distemper is raging.
Working dogs should be immunised
against distemper. It has to be done by
a vet., and if a number of dogs can be
done at the same time it is less costly.
It is necessary to make arrangements
with the vet. some time ahead, as supplies
of the virus i ake a week or two to obtain
and, as they will not keep for long, the
job must be done as soon as possible.
Dogs can be treated at any age from
four months up, but the younger limit
is recommended.
Immunisation consists of giving the
dog an injection of the living distemper
virus, which brings on a mild attack of
the disease, and this is followed in an
hour or two by injection of the anti-
distemper serum. This immunisation, as
a rule, is sufficient to protect the dog for
its lifetime.
A Roof Wash.
“Atlanta”: Slake from 501 b. to 601 b. of
freshly-burnt stone lime with hot water,
covering with a few layers of sacking
while it is slaking. After 30 minutes add
to the lime 11b. of alum which has been
dissolved in hot water and 11b. of soft
soap, previously emulsified. Stir thor-
oughly until the mixture is like smooth
cream, then again cover and leave stand-
ing for about three days, or until it re-
sembles soft putty.
As required, thin the mixture with
water until it runs like paint, strain
through a fine sieve, and apply. A week
after the first coating has dried, apply
the second. Cool weather is ideal for this
work, allowing the wash to dry more
slowly, thus more deeply penetrating the
material.
Considerably cheaper than paint, this
wash lasts for a lengthy period and if
applied every three or four years is an
effective preservative of iron, brickwork,
cement, stone and rough wood surfaces.
Hints for the Farm.
“A. B. Marker”; That kurrajong hint
(B. 12/3/’47) was of nutritive value only ;
not how to feed scrub in a drought. Have
had long experience of feeding scrub to
stock, and find after about six months
of continuous feeding of scrub and salt
and molasses that the stock generally
are suffering from digestive trouble, re-
quiring a change of diet to grain and hay.
“S.Mc.”; After many years of striving
with the varied agricultural implements
available, I have come to the conclusion
that the only way to combat the broad-
leafed “variegated” thistle is to attack with
a Sin. hoe. This has been done now for
five consecutive years on an area of
approximately 500 acres and still the weed
persists, not even showing signs of thin-
ing out. Can anyone tell me how long
these seeds will be dormant —or, better,
is there any alternative method of eradi-
cation?
“Sundowner”: Early deep ploughing
to bury fallen leaves plus an application
of Bordeaux mixture when shoots are up
to Sin. long just after flowering, repeated
three weeks to a month later, makes an
effective insurance against infection of
vines by downy mildew.
“Bill C.”: Stable manure in heaps is
a great breeding place for the house-fly.
If the heaps cannot be covered, beat
them with the shovel to impact the sides,
which prevents the flies from depositing
their eggs deep in the manure. Then-
spray the heaps with a solution of borax
and water, lib. to every six gallons of
water. The borax will not have any
adverse effect upon plant life unless the
manure is applied at a rate in excess of
15 tons per acre. Don’t go barefoot
among moist horse manure if you have
any large cuts or wounds; the manure
is a favored place of tetanus germs.
“Plane Creek”: The custard apple is
easily produced in warmer parts. The
tree is hardy and needs no spraying or
pruning. Save the seed from good-sized
custard apples (now in season) and sow
them in boxes of soil. Watered well,
seedlings hop along and soon make bear-
ing trees. Bullock’s Heart is the giant
variety, but a poor bearer. The common
small variety produces more generously.
“K.C.”: Humus pits are excellent, but
do not throw diseased leaves and plants
into them. Into the incinerator with
tomato 1 plants, potato haulms, rust-
affected beans, thistles (which are
often the aphis carriers in the garden)
and all diseased fruit. If home gardeners
followed this rule it would do much to
check disease.
“Calos”: Paris green is effective for
termites where they attack fruit-trees and
shrubs. When the roots have been
attacked a hole should be bored in a
sloping direction from a few inches above
the soil to the centre of the tree. Paris
green is then blown into the cavity and
the opening sealed with gum or putty.
An ounce of the poison is sufficient for six
fruit-trees.
“Adelaide”; The S.A. vintage, of great
importance to that State and to Aus-
tralia’s crop in general, promises well,
largely from an odd reason. In the heavy
rain at Christmas currants and the like
suffered heavily, and were rushed to the
distilleries to “save their lives.” Thus
the dried-fruit industry suffered, but the
wine crop looks like approaching last
year’s record of nearly 20 million gallons.
“H.W.U.”; If gathering up Bathurst
burrs that have seeded use a shovel in-
stead of a hoe and you won’t knock the
seeds off by jarring them as you strike.


How much may I pack ?
o
Much more than you think ! 66 ID. is the free baggage
allowance on all Speedbird routes, plus what you carry—
overcoat, magazines and books. Here is how your 66 lb.
might be made up. A big lightweight case (weighing about
6i lb.) in which you can pack, say, the following 391 lb.
of clothing: lounge suit - tweeds and flannels or dinner
jacket - 2 tropical suits - 3 pairs of shoes - 16 shirts - and
all you need in the way of pyjamas, underclothes and
etceteras. This leaves about 20 lb. for toilet kit and extras
in a small nightstop case. In fact, for you, sir, 66 lb. means
all you want for a month’s air travel. For you, madam,
because of your much lighter clothing, more than enough of
everything.
Australasian Representative: Shell House, Carrington St.,
Sydney. General Agents: QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane. Townsville, Cairns,
Darwin, Port Moresby, Lae, Rabaul. Booking agents in
all cities.
Speedbird Routes across the World
BO AC
Linking
p AUSTRALIA with:
BRITAIN . ZEALAND .
FAR EAST . /A/DM . MIDDLE
EAST . SOf/fH, MS7 6
• CANADA . J/.S.A
Q.E.A. operate the Flying-boat service between Australia
and Singapore and the Lancastrian service between Australia
and Karachi. T.E.A. operate the service from Australia to
New Zealand.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN ASSOCIATION WITH Q ANT AS
EMPIRE AIRWAYS, SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS
54/A U
Ilead this Builders
Advice if you’re
planning a Home
Mr. E. A. Richards, well-known city
and suburban builder of Campsie,
Sydney, specialises in modern dom-
estic construction. Mr. Richards
says "For freedom from noise,
for insulation against heat and cold
and that streamlined appearence use
Cane-ite”. Mr. Richards speaks with
all the authority of twenty-five years’
experience in building homes.
K
Mr. Richards also gives these tips
Situation. Many people make the
mistake of placing their home too
near the street. Every home is
improved by a good distance be-
tween the front door and the front
gate.
* * *
Sunlight. In Australia a north-
erly aspect is the ideal but
full advantage of the sun can be
secured by adjusting the shape of
the house. A design "off-square”
with the street breaks the monotony
in-a closely settled area and allows
for originality in garden layout.
* * <t>
Insulation. This is the new, in-
expensive feature which i keeps
houses warm in winter and cool in
summer. This insulation is pro-
vided by Cane-ite for walls and
Ivory Cane-ite ceilings. With a
very attractive suede-like finish,
Cane-ite is so easily fitted that it
actually reduces the cost of
building. Just half an inch will
insulate your, home better than
sixteen inches of concrete or an
eight inch thick brick wall.
Kitchen Location. The average
housewife spends so much time
in the kitchen that it should be
placed where it gets the light and
the wife gets the pleasant outlook,
* * *
Noise Abatement. Modern home
design aims at restful quiet with
noise kept down to the lowest
possible level. In this regard
there is no better building material
for the absorption of noise than
Cane-ite. For years such places
as offices and broadcasting studios,
where quietude is essential, have
insisted on Cane-ite insulating
board. You cannot do better than
follow the lead of these insti-
tutions.
* * *
Restricted Area. Save precious
floor area by ..having clothes
cupboards built-in. This dispenses
with bulky, expensive wardrobes
in all bedrooms. The cupboard
doors can be mirrored or plain
as desired.
Insulate and Decorate with
" a^^- 1
Walls and Ceilings
Sold by hardware stores and timber merchants everywhere\
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
to the sergeant of police, and demanded
that the law do something about it at
onC e.
It appeared that the Reverend Fowler
had been wakened about midnight by a
hammering on the door of his bachelor
home. When he opened the door, Tommy
Walsh thrust a revolver in his ribs, pulled
the tearful Mrs. Elliott into the room,
closed the door, and ordered the parson
to marry them.
“And what could I do?” the Reverend
Fowler almost sobbed. “What else could
I do? He said he’d shoot me if I didn’t,
and all the time he kept jabbing the re-
volver in my ribs. What if it had gone
off?” He went white at the thought.
“The man is a savage, a criminal. And
poor Mrs. Elliott. That poor woman!”
“Well, they’ve gone,” said the sergeant,
serious and official, and hoping he didn’t
look amused. “With two horses, food
and camping gear. Out into the moun-
tains for a honeymoon. He closed the
door of Tommy s house. You d better
get back to bed. I start after them in
th !/sS oini , ng ‘ t. ~
ir oh, „ P? or . Poor Mr j‘
Elhott the Reverend Fowler moaned.
But he said he d shoot me if I didn t
marry them ”
“Now you get some sleep, and as soon
as it’s daylight I’ll be on their tracks.”
The sergeant was as good as his word,
Here and there he gathered evidence of
the passing of Tommy and his bride, but
he lost all signs where the track entered
the foothills of the mountains, and, al-
though he went out into the ranges every
day for a week, he gathered no further
information. Some people said the
sergeant didn’t bother much, others said
he had no hope of finding Tommy any-
wa Y because Tommy was such a great
bushman.
“Remember how once he was going
through the jungle from Port Douglas to
the Gulf?” “Don’t forget the time he was
caught up on the Bogongs by a blizzard.”
The yarns about Tommy began to circu-
late again. People, remembering Tommy’s
recent dashing exploit, dared not con-
tradict or disbelieve them. Even Stinson
and the Reverend Fowler were silent,
Tommy had given proof of his prowess
that couldn’t be denied,
At enc j 0 £ se cond week the
p eo pj e G f Dudgenby woke up one morn-
j ng tQ see coming from Tommy
Walsh’s chimney. The mare was cropping
the grass in the backyard, and Rankin’s
hors l was tied to the hitching-rail at the
~ , u
hotel. Tommy and his wife were back.
A few people scouted round the house
inquisitively, and the Reverend Fowler
rushed off to the police station, and soon
came slowly down the road with the
reluctant sergeant. By this time quite a
crowd had collected outside the house.
“Perhaps you should go in first?” said
the sergeant, but the parson, remembering
Tommy’s revolver, shook his head.
“Well, I don’t hear any shouts for help
from Mrs, Walsh,” laughed the sergeant.
“Perhaps he killed her,” hazarded
Fowler.
“If he did, she deserved it.” Rankin
shouted, and the crowd laughed.
Plainly the people were on Tommy’s
side again.
AT last the sergeant went up to the
front door and knocked. There was
no response. He hammered on it more
insistently and there was the sound of
footsteps from inside the house, foot-
steps coming quickly down the hall. The
people gaped at the closed door, and the
Reverend Fowler drew back a couple of
paces and got behind the sergeant.
The door opened and Gertrude stepped
out on to the verandah, closing the door
behind her. With the door closed the
parson took courage, stepped out from
behind the sergeant, and voiced his con-
cern. “My poor, dear Mrs. Eliott,” he
said.
She cut him short abruptly. “Mrs.
Walsh,” she said and, turning towards the
crowd, repeated, “Mrs. Walsh.”
After the brief silence that followed
her words there was a hum of talk till
Mrs. Walsh silenced it by saying “not so
much noise please or you’ll wake my
husband. He’s very tired.”
The parson had another try. Tactfully,
and gently, this time. “My dear woman,
the sergeant here has come to arrest Mr.
that man who abducted you.”
“That’s right, Mrs. Walsh,” the
sergeant said. “I’ll arrest him if you’ll
stand away from the door.” The
sergeant, judging by his expression, had
a most improper sense of the gravity of
the situation.
“You’ll do nothing of the kind,” the
abducted bride shouted. “I won’t give
evidence against my husband. And, as
for you,” she turned upon the parson
with unreasonable ferocity, “You can
go to hell.”
At that moment Tommy Walsh’s voice
boomed out from the house.
“What’s all the noise out there?
What’s the matter?” and the Reverend
Fowler led the quick retreat.
Now Tommy goes round the township
telling all his old yarns, and no one ever
doubts him, not even the Reverend
Fowler. His wife too, with evident pride,
repeats the yarns that Tommy tells, and
now and then adds a «ew one; while
Tommy, whenever he wants to impress
his listeners strongly, concludes by say-
ing “You ask my wife. Go and ask my
wife.”


The Valet razor
strops itself
%
and every
morning gives
a perfect shave"!
V4/127
mm
w/m
mWj
m
\ mm ii
m
JJt
in
s»
»vw mjsßW
Vd Ki lte
m
■
WAVAV
SSS
mw ..w
W.V'W
■>»*
UARANTEED NEVER *£o FADE OR SHRINK
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“For sale, three-quarter oak bed, and
canaries.”— Suburban paper.
Owner is tired of getting up with the
birds.
4* *F *F *F
“In honor of the forthcoming visit of their
distinguished aunt, they would have to get out
the family jewels.”— Story.
Provided they could find the tickets for
their undistinguished “uncle.”
“Determine to walk whenever you possibly
can.”— “New Idea.”
Don’t give in, girls, when you’re offered
a drive home.
•I* •h 4*
“Australian, women are much too casual
about their make-up.”— Sydney “Telegraph.’ 1 ’
Many have quite an indifferent appear-
ance.
•F *F *F ❖
“A wife said in the Divorce Court that the
trouble between them first started when her
husband became addicted to football.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
They were continually out of touch.
•F *F *F *F
“Never hurry a Taurus-born.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Or he’ll rush like a bull at a gate.
•F *F *F *F
“They carry the lipstick in the holster down
in Texas.” — Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
They’re slick on the draw and always
get their man.
*F *F *l* *F
“According to an expert, animals have a
sense of humor.” — “World’s News.’ 1 ’
Even a cat would laugh at some of
our political jokes.
“Radio frost warnings.” — News item.
Given just before the serial starts.
“Why shouldn’t politicians help themselves?”
argues correspondent.
After all, they don’t help anybody
else.
•F *F *F . *l* , ,
“Modern women have no idea to do
with a baby if it starts crying.”—' “D.T:
Of course, they could reduce it to
shocked silence with a radio gag.
.j. *F *F
“Fred hunted frantically in the crowded hotel
foyer for the slick con. man who had given him
a ‘rubber’ cheque.”— Short story.
The con. man had smartly erased him-
self.
“Feeling desperately ill, my doctor sent me
to a specialist, who insisted that remain in
bed for three weeks.” — “New Idea.”
How this was going to cure the prac-
titioner is not made clear.
Resource.
“A New York scoutmaster has sued for a
divorce because his wife locked him in the house
to prevent his attending scout meetings.”
—“Time” iU.S .)
In seeking thus to do without her
In fields where wives have seldom
shared,
It seems to me that “Be Prepared”
Was not the motto of this scouter;
Else, having once or twice been routed.
You’d think that he foresigktedly
Would have acquired a second key
To stop his plan to scout being scouted.
Ah well, in thus his motives doubting.
It’s likely she suspected hubby —
Fired with intentions slightly grubby —
Was looking forward to an outing
To do a different kind of scouting
With wolves — well, anything but
cubby.
P. M. LUSK.
Jealousy.
“A 6001 b. Illawafra Shorthorn bull arrived
by air at Mascot.” — “S. M. Herald.”
If pigs could fly,
A face they’d pull
And mutter: “Why,
What’s all this bull?”
LOOBY.
Explained.
“Finalism holds the same postulate with
the difference that ‘in the movement of our
finite intellects along successive things, whose
successiveness is reduced to a mere appearance,
it holds in front of us the light with which it
claims to guide us, instead of putting it be-
hind.’” — “Medical Journal,” Australia.
Too complicated, you suppose ?
Tut, tut! You must be blind.
It means we’re dragged on by the nose
And NOT kicked from behind.
YAIR.
Brought to Book.
‘‘ln Seattle, Mrs. Pearl Kendrick, 54, asked
for* divorce on the grounds of cruelty and
abandonment after her 64-year-old husband
Fred spent three days in bed reading Forever
Amber.” — “Time.”
“There’s nothing new beneath the sun,”
Philosophers will ’Still aver,
And those who daily can refer
To tales preposterously spun
When double-harness is undone
At Reno readily concur.
Assured no story can bestir
The jaded reader — no, not one.
In spite of which I feel assured
That even those who are inured
To all the yellow-press sensations
Collected from a dozen nations
No longer blase will agree
This lady had a novel plea.
D. H. E.
“No Fight.”
“Nokrashy Pasha, the Egyptian Prime Minis-
ter, is again ‘demanding’ that Britain get out
of Egypt.”
Magnoon Pasha, the Minister for
Threats, stopped scratching himself for a
moment to grab up a copy of Col. Mc-
Cormick’s Chicago “Tribune.”
He proceeded to translate to the
coffee-colored assemblage the glad
tidings that England and her Empire
were now dead and were merely
awaiting interment somewhere, and
that what was left of the once-proud
armed forces of the British Common-
wealth was now a pushover for even a
platoon of rheumatic Eskimos armed with
sea-pig bladders. Between more scratch-
ings he waxed eloquent on the oppor-
tunity that now existed of hunting the
hated intruder into the sea.
He recalled with pride their own recent
great martial feats. How, despite the
fact that they were handicapped by Mont-
gomery and his Eighth Army, which kept
getting in the way, the fierce warriors of
the land of baksheesh, bints and burning
sands had repeatedly hurled Rommel and
his Afrikakorps back over the Libyan
border.
The enthusiasm was so great when the
speech was published a Wafdist shot a
rival Blufdist in the fez, university
students overturned a tram and set it
and all the Gyppo passengers on fire, and,
following swift raids on the tills of all
Gyppo shops, English banknotes were
piled in a heap in the road and burned.
As the Dafdist paper “El Whatittis” said
the next day, that was only the start of
British losses. The cry went up then for
instant action by the descendants of those
gallant warriors who had sold oranges
and papyrus postcards to Caesar’s invad-
ing army, to rise and crush these deca-
dent English soldiers who so insolently
used to bet on who had the most flies
around their eyes, Gyppos or donks.
Had the British known in what wonder-
ful heart the Gyppo armed forces were
“ 'With reference to yours of the fourteenth
ult.'- Come, Miss Potter, attend to
your dictation."
they must truly have trembled for their
fate.
Only that morning the fleet had carried
out its annual manoeuvres in Alexandria
harbor. The whole four heavily-armed
rowing boats had been pulled around
furiously, and in a practice shoot with
their Maxims at an old hulk, a fellaheen
200 yards away on a flank had his light
dhow holed. Unfortunately the fleet had
been halved when two of the boats col-
lided in the middle of the almost deserted
harbor and sank, the crews being rescued
by a passing British cutter.
The Gyppo Air Force was also formid-
able, or it would be as soon as the C.O.
had put back in one of the Tiger Moths
the engine he was using to run his plant
for making camel by-product cigarettes.
The pilots had, however, been well trained
on the other Moth which made up the
Air Force, the only thing lacking being
experience aloft. This was the result of
a rule —it had been suggested by the
pilots themselves —that no ’plane was
to leave the ground in case somebody got
hurt.. One of the proudest moments the
G.A.F. celebrated was. that on which
they had fired a synchronised machine-
gun through the revolving blades of the
propeller and it wasn’t until the ninth
bullet that one blade went.
It was, however, the Gyppo Army,
warlike in their calico skirts and blue
giggle coats they’d scrounged from a
British army tip, and chanting their war
cries of “Givit baksheesh! ” and “you
come see my sister cheap two piastre”
that was calculated to strike terror into
the foemen, especially if they didn’t have
gas masks and the wind was blowing to-
wards them.
Magnoon Pasha’s impassioned appeal
for action evoked a swift response. Two
days later he succeeded in locating and
awakening the G.0.C., Zubric Pasha,
who, a couple of days
later, went to look for
his army.
Alas! He had to an-
nounce that some dastard
—at least it sounded like
that —had started a rumor
that a battalion of Aus-
tralians were being sent to
meet thfe threat. Without
even waiting to lock up
their women the entire
army had disappeared.
Last reports he had were
that it was last seen pass-
ing the Nubian Desert
without slackening speed
and heading in the general
direction of the Belgian
Congo.
Magnoon Pasha, in a
white hfcat of anger, sought
out the G.O.C. “You’ll
have to get your Chief-of-
Staff, Wallah Pasha, to
recruit a new army,” he
said. “We must”
Zubric Pasha looked
gloomy. “It’ll be no good
trying to get him now,” he
said. “You .know we
haven’t been paid for three months, and
today he heard that a mad British major
who’s probably been out in the sun is
dining at Shepheard’s and paying twenty
piastres to have his boots cleaned. You’ll
probably find Wallah Pasha under the
dining-room table going for his life with
his brushes!”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“Relief”
If you are forced to accept Common-
wealth unemployed-relief, probably be-
cause the job has cut out for lack of
material caused by strikes in other trades,
you get an insight into the ways of these
departments and the masses of officials
they employ.
You go to the bureau on a Friday and
get a form. It has to be returned the
next Friday, with particulars of any
earnings for the week to Thursday. It
is handed to a clerk, who refers to an
index card, and then extracts your refer-
ence card from a cabinet. Then to a
second man, who, after perusal of your
statement, stamps and initials it. You
are now directed to a third man, who
accepts your stamped statement and pre-
sents you with a blank form for the
following week.
On Thursday you receive by post, in
a foolscap-size transparent-fronted enve-
lope, a cheque for £1 55., “not negoti-
able.” This entails a visit to your bank
to pay in, and the use of a cheque form
to draw out. The cheque has to
go from your bank to the Common-
wealth Bank, via the clearing house, then
back to the department as a receipt.
And all about a matter of twenty-five
bob!
With a cashier at the bureau, and
space on the reference card for a signa-
ture as receipt for the 25 bob,
much unnecessary labor and cost —
cheque form, postage, tram fares, etc. —
would be obviated; but perhaps that
would be too simple for a Government
department— Victim (Vic.).
Ron Richards
An appalling case is that of Ron
Richards the boxer, whom the Sydney
police had to take into custody for his
own protection. One reason was that he
was a prey to the violent assaults of
Sydney larrikins, cruellest of their species,
who, coming upon him friendless and
helpless, were addicted to battering him
to the pavement, each to boast afterwards
“I knocked out Ron Richards.”
For upwards of 10 years Richards,
who has. aboriginal blood in his veins
(mindful of this Premier Hanlon has
mercifully promised to take care of him
in his native Queensland), entertained
and received the patronage, for what it
was worth, of scores of N.S.W. “Labor”
politicians, high and low, and they never
thought to give him any sort of legal pro-
tection against being knocked silly and
cast out like an old shoe.
When N.S.W. “Labor” was passing
workers’-compensation legislation it coldly
excluded pugilists, the interests of boxing
promoters being held predominant. Of
course this is of a piece with N.S.W.
“Labor’s” treatment of Government tram
conductors, for whom it never built one
tram without the barbarous footboard,
on which so many good fellows have
scrambled or been hurled to death. Ex-
Sydney (Q.>
Caravans
In the Adelaide metropolitan area
caravan parks are springing up as well
as scores of individually-let caravans set
up on vacant blocks and in backyards.
Rents are in many cases higher than two
guineas a week. What sort of control
is it which allows this?
The Landlord and Tenant Act ad-
ministered by State authorities can be
quoted by tenants with just cause seeking
re-assessment of rental. The State Hous-
ing Trust has been approached by persons
who have undertaken to pay certain ren-
tals, and have subsequently found main-
tenance beyond their means. In the case
of new dwellings no control can be
sought.
A new caravan, or for that matter one
which has not been let before, can be
hired) at any figure which the caprice of
the owner dictates. Couples desperate
for accommodation of any kind gladly
undertake to pay the exorbitant rent
demanded.
Pre-war a good guide to a house id-
vestment as a business proposition was
the “ten-ten” plan of values. This meant
that a thousand pounds invested should
return itself, plus interest, within ten
years. Return above,this figure was a
good investment; while anything much
below, unless the security was excellent,
was treated with care.
On these figures, then, the caravan
proposition is in a class by itself. A
caravan costing, say, £3OO would return
its cost in less than three years. Naturally
there is an increasing number of “cara-
van-to-let” ads. in the classified columns.
—Shavia (S.A.).
t
Nudes, Cheap
If you’re caught selling French post-
cards you’re likely to end in court. Why
■can fun parlors, which cater almost ex-
clusively for youth, get away with their
“beautiful models”?
For a penny a squint there are brightly-
lighted photos of women whose charm
is deliberately from the waist down. Two
nudes are the stars of the show, and
they’re pretty candid shots, too. I’ve seen
more than one youth walk away from
the machine in an obviously restless
frame of mind. Six a penny is the tariff
at some places.
With sex crimes on the increase and
sex instruction still in the early stages I
think fun parlors should be obliged to
concentrate more on the pop-corn cranes
and table games of “skill” than on these
pennorths of excitement for excitable
teenagers. — Eve Merritt (N.S.W.).
Hydro-electric Power
The suggestion made by Senator
Finlay (S.A.) as to the possibilities of
hydro-electric power transmitted from
Tasmania to the mainland has some-
thing to commend it, but why not trans-
port the industries, to Tasmania? In
that State there is plenty of power,
plenty of room, and industrial troubles
are at a discount. This perfectly reason-
able alternative would be far better than
attempting to transmit electric power
across Bass Strait by submarine cable
and consequent heavy loss of voltage.
Senator Ashley promised to examine
the possibility of bringing the power
across the strait. I say bring industries
to the power. — Longford (Tas.).
Timber
“R.H.G.” (B. 23/4/’47) misses the
main point in my condemnation of
royalties on timber. There are millions
of millions of super feet of good hoop-
pine tied up in N.Q. while bureaucrats
are kept in swivel-chair jobs in cities.
Now let me deal Iwith “R.H.G.’s” objec-
tions. Will he tell me the value—-the real
value—of any crop, lucerne, oats, maize,
potatoes or a “useless hill covered in
good pine,” until it is harvested? Those
things only have a picturesque value
until they are harvested. I read his
figures, and they alone let me know he is
a pencil fiend who is lost when away
from a sheet of paper. I never said any-
thing about jarrah ; I knew only that we
could import timber from Canada for
less than it would cost us to mill the local
stuff —after royalties are paid.
Let “R.H.G.” stick to his pencil when
he gives advice about the start of a saw-
mill.. I know two which started on old
motor engines, priced at about £2O in the
market then. Another, now successful,
started with a Ford ton truck. They
jacked one back wheel up and used it
as a pulley wheel. I don’t know quite
what their saws and benches cost. I
know, though, I could, save more than
£9OO out of “R.H.G.’s” estimated £lOOO.
I referred to N.Q. West Australia isn’t
the continent. — Sugar (Q.).
It’s Up to Civilians!
Throughout Australia ex-servicemen’s
organisations, struggling against building
restrictions, shortages of materials and
labor and vested local interests, are trying
to establish halls and clubrooms. In
some instances, where these exist (mostly
in the cities and larger towns), they have
been outmoded by the necessity to secure
more commodious premises to cater for a
larger membership.
In Victoria only one case has come to
my notice where a building has been
provided, ready for use, by a prescient,
loyal and public-spirited community. This
is at Casterton. What has been accom-
plished there should serve as a model to
and incentive for all other towns.
Have we, the civilians who bore the
burden of the home front during the
war, let down our fighting men in this
respect? What a splendid gesture it
would have been to those who gave so
much if this service could have been
rendered them! Even now it is not too
late for governing bodies and public
organisations to assist the Digger who is
tackling his new task so well. — Plain
Australian (Vic.),
A Fearless Union
The existence of- the National Union
of Railwaymen shows that Communists
and alleged “moderates” can be dished,
or at least held in check, by a few reso-
lute men.
This N.U.R. was -sued for libel by
one of the bosses of the A.R.U., which
has Communist affiliations and is fond
of threatening strikes. Plaintiff had the
face to claim £lO,OOO damages, and gave
enlightening evidence of “a trip to
Canada”;—
The Commonwealth Government paid the
expenses except for two weeks’ leave, which
he had taken. In that case, if the Com-
monwealth Government did not pay, the
union would.
And a guard from Dubbo went into the
box: —•
Did he consider N.U.R. men “scabs”?
No, he didn’t like that word ; he preferred
to call them “loyalists.” Asked by the
Judge what he meant by that, he said
“loyal to the Commissioners.” Asked by
the N.U.R. council if he was loyal to
King and country, he said he was “loyal to
his union.”
The Judge summed up in favor of the
N.U.R. and the jury found for it, with
costs. If the A.R.U. tries to bring rail-
way transport to a standstill, the N.U.R.
will be readv for duty, as always.—Wod-
gil (N.S.W.).
Waiting at the Chemist’s
I sat for a weary half-hour in a
chemist’s shop waiting for a prescription
to be dispensed. To relieve the boredom
I began counting the different nostrums
on display, but gave up when I reached
the five-hundred mark.
There were stimulants and sedatives,
cure-alls and specifics, pain-killers and
pick-me-ups, pills and potions, beauty
aids in endless variety —they were given
pride of place. f
If our “systems” and complexions re-
quire so much vetting there must be some-
thing radically wrong with our habits of
living.
Time was when a home-made mixture
of sulphur and treacle was the chief agent
of inward cleanliness, and when soap in
solution was the only begetter of
“glamor.” We lived the simple life, went
to bed earlier and attended fewer parties.
Can it be that we are coddled into soft-
ness with too much too often of the
things that once were luxuries but are
now standard equipment? What is cer-
tain is that the increase of comforts and
cures is about equal each to each, and
that many of the cures are related to over-
indulgence and the symptoms of the
morning after.— Scrip (S.A.).
Our Sturdy Beggars
Obvious reasons for the success of
“Labor” at the recent elections was that
“Labor” promised more and told more
crammers than all the other parties to-
gether, and that the voters were hungrier
for handouts and crammers than ever be-
fore. In degree it was nothing new —
merely an acceleration of the system of
running to the “Government” for every-
thing that has grown up since the days
when a real Australian would throw a tip
"No wonder you're tired, Gregory—you forgot to let your middle
legs down!”
into the gutter and consider punching the
donor on the nose for, offering it.
Nowadays public bodies, from Parents’
and Citizens’ to Chambers of Commerce
and sporting clubs, dive for the Treasury
for everything they want without stop-
ping to consider the price they will have
to pay to a socialistic Government that
conceals the whip behind its back while
holding out the bait of easy money.
An example of the depths of mendi-
cancy to which our once-proud public
bodies have descended was given recently
by one in northern N.S.W. This concern
carried a resolution, and sent it to the
local paper for publication, stating
plainly that if it did not get what it
wanted in this particular instance it would
use all its strength to have the sitting
member defeated.
The beggar complex is not confined to
pink-tinted bodies. It is as strong in
anti-“ Labor” electorates as anywhere else.
Before Australia can expect to return to
healthy forms of State and Common-
wealth government it will have to throw
overboard the beggar instinct and get
back to the working bee and the tar-
paulin muster; to careful financial
management in local affairs, and a little
of that extremely beneficial spirit of going
without the things it cannot afford until
it has the money—and then setting about
raising the money without cadging it
from a “Government” that sets the price
of Socialism on its gifts.
Johnnie Government is the usurer of
Australia under our social regime. It is
mere waste of wind to run to him beg-
ging for handouts while condemning him
as unfit to have the right to hand out.
Local bodies of every denomination
throughout the country need to get back
a little of the dinkum pioneer spirit that
made us great, and to blush a little
(as of old) when their neighbors go crawl-
ing to Johnnie for baksheesh every time
they want a bit of work done or some
equipment supplied.
It can be done. It is being done in
some outback districts —the further out-
back the more frequent and successful
But it is a long way from becoming
again the national trait it used to be,—
2315 (N.S.W.).
“Enemy No. 2”
At a Sydney conference of the Aus-
tralian Newspaper Proprietors Mr, Eric
Kennedy had the face to assert that “to
the Communists the daily newspaper is
enemy No. 2, their enemy No. 1 being
the law.”
When the Communists were under
the Menzies ban the Sydney daily
press saw fit to whirl itself into sullen
hostility to Menzies. Menzies laid low,
it and its offshoots became Russo-
maniac. A Sunday edition of one
paper denounced members of the Opposi-
tion as “Anglophiles,” and a Kennedy
sheet presented a Communist account of
the Singapore surrender as ascertained
fact. In the meantime the daily press
extolled the Red Army and its ravishing
girl “guerillas” as incomparable.
The plain truth is that nothing has done
more to make Communists “respectable”
and dangerous than the sentimental
Leftism of thq Sydney daily and Sunday
press.—S. G. (N.S.W.).
NECESSARY Imports?
At a time when it is the declared policy
of the country to restrict expenditure on
foreign products to necessaries and de-
vote all trade to Britain, where it is sorely
needed (and more economic), there is
squandering on imported fashions and
fashion parades.
Last year mannequins and fashions
were brought from France at the cost
of about £30,000. This year two con-
cerns. are each importing Parisian
fashions, mannequins and designers
at tremendous cost. Prices for some
of the dresses amount to £l5O apiece to
which duty and charges have to be added,
No expense is being spared; the goods
are air-freighted. -
Small traders rightly object, and so do
those who have been denied licences to
import essential machinery replacements
and other goods needed to support their
industry. Anyway, instead of lavishing so
much money on the importation of finery
for idle women, what about doing some-
thing to import or manufacture clothing
for the shabby Australian male?.—.V.N.
(N.S.W.).


Food for Britain
The Geelong Repertory Society has
sent food parcels to writers and players
in England and has received grateful
acknowledgments from A. A. Milne, I B.
Priestley, Noel Coward and Phyllis
Calvert. ’ I enclose copies of the
latest two letters, one from John Mills
and another from Esmond Knight, who
was blinded in battle. His wife is the
actress Nora Swinburne. — Dulcie B.
Meakin (Vic.).
Although the present sad conditions in
Britain affect all alike there are some who
have suffered more than others during
the war and succeeding years. Amongst
these are the widows and orphans of
members of the Royal Air Force, killed
or reported missing.
From the secretary of the R.A.F.
Benevolent Fund I have obtained names
of a number of these widows and
orphans, and he has expressed “great
appreciation, and warmest thanks” to
senders of food parcels to these people,
“who have already lost so much and
who will be so grateful for any help of
this kind.”
Although 220 of these names have now
been taken over by individuals or groups
desirous of helping in a practical way, this
only touches the fringe of the casualty
list of the R.A.F.; and it was and is
mournful—killed, 69,606 ; missing, 6703 ;
wounded, 22,839.
I shall gladly forward one or more
addresses to anyone interested; alter-
natively, I can obtain names of ex-R.A.F.
members suffering disabilities as a result
of their service, for those who would
prefer it.—(Miss) M. E. McKie, The
Hermitage, Geelong, Victoria.
Mr. Chifley has been curiously ready to
accept- the word of unnamed “authori-
ties” against those who described the
British as a “half-starved nation.” Un-
named British visitors “strongly resented
the suggestion.” Anyone who would be a
“British visitor” would be nowhere near
the breadline, and so could no doubt eke
out his rations at restaurants, as
a million others could be doing without
disproving the “half-starved” statement.
Speaking for the rest, Lord Cherwell
has stated in the “Times” that Britain’s
“present-day rations of meat, bacon,
sugar and fats amount to barely two-thirds
of the quantities consumed by even the
poorest sixth of the British people before
the war.” If that isn’t “half-starved” it’s
“one-third-starved,” even though it
strikes an Australian Prime Minister as
“sufficient.” — Macann (N.S'.W.).
“Comics”
Although restrictions have been placed
on the import of overseas publications
and paper pulp, a great flood of so-called
children’s comics is still pouring into the
country, as well as streaming out of
Australian printing presses.
I looked through a bundle of them,
American and Australian. I was amazed
that such muck should be allowed on
the market for the “entertainment” of
young children. Crude drawings,
atrocious construction of sentences and
spelling, incomprehensible plots; and,
here and there, a parade of semi-nudity.
Children with undeveloped powers of
discrimination could not help being in-
fluenced by the tone of these “funnies.”
In their imitative way they start to talk
like the characters and accept the mis-
spellings as gospel. A more profound but
less obvious effect may be made on the
child’s mental make-up. Continual
absorption of this trash could have evil
results on a child incapable of properly
distinguishing between right and wrong.
Yet, whilst these comics*are obtainable
at practically any bookstall, good chil-
dren s books are unprocurable. Some of
the finest ever written were the work of
Australians, but inquiries bring the same
old answer ‘out of print; paper restric-
tions, you know.”—l. D. (Q.).
\ircraft for T.-A.A.
At a time when the British are pro-
Qucmg such aircraft as the Vickers
iking, it is extraordinary that dollar ex-
change should be eaten into for the
purchase or five untried American
i achmes by Trans-Australia Airlines.
L °ia at i 6 picture advertisement with
n exclamation-marks raises other
questions. ,
onl T two motors for a pay-
irark d - ’ accort hng to exclamation-
“ Fortv 4 ’rJ<? roughl T that of a'D.C.4.
Jn ¥ rs in the 300 m.-p.-h.
to tlip ne fis as muc h or more power
and 1 are 'only tf a °' C4 f° U
as'two P 0 “ a ** as powerful
renderecMnoperat.\, tor ' 5 ’ f ? r l" y , reaS ° n ’
on a D.C.4 three ? ’ as the book says ’
available for use ters of full power 1S
■ e - This is ample to climb
away from a take-off, continue the flight
or return, whichever is necessary. On a
two-motored D.C.3 when an engine goes,
half of full power is available, because
these aircraft are relatively lightly loaded,
their engines are low-powered, and thei
is sufficient rudder to hold against th
good one going flat out.
But when one of two widely-spacec
motors in the 3000 horsepower-clas
goes—and they will be more likel
to do so —no human agency will be abl
to hold against the good motor operatin
at full throttle and r.p.m. This mean
that only a limited amount of power wii
be ablfc to be used when one motor is in
operative. Maybe only a quarter of tha
available in normal circumstances, th
actual amount depending on the strengtl
in the pilot’s legs, and the turning
momentum provided by the full applica
tion of rudder one way or the other
D.C.3 aircraft will remain airborne wit!
one motor operating at slightly less than
full throttle.
Mr. Coles’s new purchases may be able
to stay up with a full load and with one
motor operating at considerably less than
full throttle. But Parliament should be
sure (a) that the machines have the bes
safety factor available on the market and
( b ) that they are tried and proved in
practical operation.—D. W. P. B. (Vic.).
Handicaps of Responsibility
Modern methods of wage-control, taxa-
tion and procedure in running commercial
enterprises are creating an unfortunate
outlook among many good types.
In industry it is increasingly hard to get
a foreman, chiefly because the pay isn’t
good enough for a job carrying so much
responsibility and odium. When a work-
man takes charge in any way his fellow-
workmen decide as a matter of course
that he has become “a boss’s man.” So
he finds himself practically ostracised by
his former associates just when the boss
is looking to him for efficiency and drive.
Take another angle. In the institution
in which I am employed as a manager,
after nearly 30 years’ service I find junior
officers getting nearly the same gross
salary. One or two allowances certainly
come my way, but these benefits are
swallowed up by taxation and out-
of-pocket expenses. I am called upon to
spend my own money to protect existing
business and make fresh associations. In
the result members of my staff, reckoning
in lower rates of tax and deductions, get
a better fortnightly net salary than mine.
Yet I, not they, take the knocks from
head office, am a buffer between them
and the customer, and receive a very un-
pleasant reprimand if business is lost.
This is no way to encourage ambition
and induce mfcn capable of shouldering
responsibility to accept it. A different
atmosphere must be created towards men
who take responsible positions, especially
in large factories. The men at the top
must adopt a more understanding and
generous attitude towards the executives
who form the basis of practically all
business enterprises. And workmen \VilI
have to drop the habit of “setting” a man
because he has become a foreman or the
like. Promotion in such cases must
happen everywhere and under every
system.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Letter from Scotland
W. McCail’s voice (B. 30/4/’47) was
indeed welcome from behind the tartan
curtain which has surrounded the Land
o’ Cakes since the beginning of hostilities.
London has had a good press and well-
deserved publicity; Glasgow has earned
great renown, but has not received it. The
Scots are the world’s worst propagandists.
A typical example of self-effacement was
given by the farmer who captured Hess.
He rendered first aid and went on with
his ploughing, refusing to stand still long
enough to be photographed for the press.
Very few Australians have any clear
conception of the part played by Scot-
land in the war —the terrible havoc
wreaked on her industrial cities, the grim,
silent loyalty of her workers, the heroic
deeds of her fighters., Even the fact that
most of her whisky distilleries were
closed to save grain for food was left
unsung.
Private letters kept me informed of
what was being endured, but I looked in
vain for any overall reporting in our
dailies. There is a Doric saying: “The
Scotsman gangs till he gets it.” He does
not seek sympathy, help or admiration,
but, like the aforementioned farmer,
gives the furrow priority over the fame.
And no true Scot at hame or abroad
would have it otherwise. He is proud of
the dour spirit that achieves so much
through economy and sacrifice, leaving
history to tell the story and award the
honors.— Pease Brose (S.A.).
“Push-button War”
When introduced, indirect artillery
fire, HE. bombing from aircraft and
tanks were in turn hailed as weapons
which would be all-conquering or
weapons which would make war so
frightful that no nation would dare to
start it. But elementary military tactics
have remained unchanged and land armies
have played the main part in all wars,
As science has made available better
weapons the soldier has had to be better
trained in their use. And a counter has
been developed for every new one de-
vised.
Atom bombs and rockets are only new
types of weapons, frightful though they
are, and there is no reason to believe that
counter-measures have not or will not be
developed against them. Alone they
cannot win a war. They may destroy
“This is NOTHING —you ought to see me clean a fowl for the missus !”
huge targets, such as cities, but they can-
not destroy small targets of well-dis-
persed troops in the field. Until deter-
mined and equipped land forces have
been destroyed wars are not lost or won.
At the beginning of the 1939-45 war it
was expected that gas would be usee
against civilians. Both Germany an
Britain had large stocks of gas weapons
It was not the Geneva Convention tha
prevented their use so much as the know
ledge that both sides would suffer alike
by the use of gas. Atomic weapons may
never again be used because of a simila
reasoning.
In Australia’s case it is ridiculous to
assume that, because of the developmen
of atomic weapons, there is no need for
fighting forces. First, there are, apar
from Sydney and Melbourne, no targets
suitable for atomic weapons. Second
it is unlikely that anyone on the other side
of the world will be able to fire a rocket
weapon accurately enough to hit either
of these places from a range of at least
5000 miles—or that Australians will be
able to fire at enemy targets at that dis-
tance. Therefore, an enemy will need
bases in the islands to the north of Aus-
tralia —bases which will be vulnerable to
attack by forces armed with standard
shot and shell weapons, though present-
ing poor targets for push-button weapons.
Third, the presence of a welhequipped
army with well-dispersed supply bases in
Australia should make an invader
cautious in spite of the fact that he has
regrettably destroyed Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
If the Government is determined not
to encumber Australia with an army,
preferring to hand over defence to push-
button artists, it might at least consider
this There are a number of
us, ex-officers and senior n.c.os., who still
have an interest in the art of war, though
for the time being we prefer the comforts
of home life to soldiering. Many of us
would appreciate some training scheme
through which we could keep our know-
ledge of weapons and tactics up-to-date.
While we hope that this training will
never be of any use to us, there is just
a possibility that should it be necessary
we could be very valuable as instructors
—if not leaders —in a new Army.—
C. R. (N.S.W.).
Trees
No doubt more landowners are tree-
minded today than 50 years ago, but their
appreciation of the value of green timber
on their properties is still too often nega-
tive. ,
After many years’ absence I revisited
a mid-western station held by one
family, grandfather, father and son, for
upward of a hundred years. Their fussi-
ness about trees is a local tradition of
which they themselves are proud. Woe
betide the station hand who felled' or
only ringbarked a tree without permis-
sion, grudgingly given after mature con-
sideration. The grazing paddocks were
parklike, and river gums made a majestic
avenue along the winding river frontage.
Unfortunately, however, they have
been content only to cherish the trees pro-
vided by nature without themselves pro-
viding for replacements. Lightning, gales,
damage by stock and natural causes have
decimated the paddock trees, and along
the river bank erosion has brought many
of the river giants tumbling. The damage,
obvious to the returned wanderer, has
been so gradual as to be imperceptible
to the resident owners,
Natural replacement does not take
place under the conditions of human
settlement. Selfsown saplings are nipped
off by stock in grazing country, and the
plough gives them no chance on agricul-
tural land. It is rare to find a young tree
except in some accidentally-protected
nook. The only substantial growth of
new timber I have seen in settled country
occurs along rivers and creeks in certain
conditions after floods; elsewhere th
land is progresively becoming more anc
more bare. It is not enough to spare th
trees; one must also plant.—His
(N.S.W.).
Quick-freezing
“Outback” (B. 30/4/’47) has give
quite a misleading impression of th
quick-freeze process. He refers only t
beef and mutton carcasses, at the pre
sent time minor items. Had he mac
further inquiries in America or Canad
he would have known that little carcas
meat of any kind has been dealt with by
this process. There is a simple solution
cut the meat as supplied by the butche
and then wrap and treat.
Dealt with in this manner all item
can be wrapped and packed for expor
from Australia in overseas vessel
equipped with refrigeration. Such cut
are carried in such vessels, termed hard
frozen, at from 12 to 16 degrees F,
I do not think that it has ever been
claimed that quick-freezing definitely
improves meats, but meat so frozen is
almost equal to fresh meat. An expert
from the U.S.A. gave the following com-
parison; “There is about as much differ-
ence between a steak quick-frozen and
stored for six months in a modernly-
equipped locker plant and one that might
have come out of cold storage a decade
ago, one not equipped with quick-freez-
ing facilities, as there is between a
Lincoln Zephyr and Ford’s 1910 Tin
Lizzie.”
The secret of quick-freezing in the
preservation of all frozen foods is to
freeze so quickly that the moisture does
not have time to form large frost cells.
Touching on the sales or distribution
side, processors or packers will have to
co-operate with the manufacturers of
equipment and produce low-temperature
storage cabinets for commercial and
home use; sub-zero storage. This can
be accomplished by the locker-plant
system, home lockers and the dual-
purpose refrigerator, which contains a
sub-zero storage compartment in addi-
tion to the usual refrigerator storage as
sold in Australia. But Australia will have
to build up quick-freezing through its
locker plants, which at the commence-
ment of business will concentrate on
fresh fruits, vegetables, poultry, sea-
foods, pre-cooked meals, dough, etc.
Over 400 varieties have already been suc-
cessfully quick-frozen.
At the end of 1946 there existed 8025
locker plants, with an average of 510
lockers each, and increasing rapidly after
the war restrictions. In addition there
were over 2,000,000 home lockers.
Seventy per cent, of these lockers are in
towns of 5000 and less, 6 per cent, in
larger cities and 24 per cent, in medium-
sized towns and cities.
If “Outback” is true to label he might
also be interested to know that many of
the fair-sized properties or stations have
their own plants with what can be termed
“walk-in” storage. These are some-
what expensive, but are well justified,
because surplus items of fresh fruits,
vegetables, fruit juices, poultry, rabbits
and the like can be dealt with when avail-
able.:—Sando (S.A.).


EYES
EYES
sill,
i \
P
r*i
£ fr
'i
IrSa?
Si m ira
£
oijo
m «r/
/ »
ON 5
BOYSaUG/mS
ENTER NOW!
Jnt
m
PAINTING
COMPETITION
V JBao^
70 PRIZES N 0
C fU Y m **BmS%' a V!!
ACtS op 6&!4
CHILDREN’S
PAINTING COMPETITION
Here’s all you do!
| Obtain the C.O.R Road Safety Painting Competition Book from your
Garageman, Storekeeper, C.O.R Country Depot or Agent.
2 Carefully read, or have your parents or school teacher explain, the
* SIMPLE ENTRY RULES and other interesting information.
3. Make sure you MAIL YOUR ENTRY BEFORE MONDAY, 30th JUNE,
to address shown on the inside front cover.
A MESSAGE TO PARENTS AND SCHOOL TEACHERS. The C.O.R
Road Safety Painting Competition is designed to give children an
appreciation of the Road Safety Precaution Signs . . Encourage them
to enter this competition, and supervise their work and choice of
colours . . Train them to observe the simple Kerb Drill as given in
this booklet, and know they will be safe when you are not with them.
Wi
British petrol
Conducted in the interests
of Road Safety Education by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government & Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
C5/2609
HEED ALL ROAD SIGNS—MAKE TRAFFIC WAYS SAFER FOR YOURSELF AND OTHERS
CURVES
'>y^
v
// -v.
V-'-c
*\
;
o
p a
■ W
NARROW
BRIDGE
-"V
viW.r/
(
Y-l
v. v
. 7
A /)
, )JZ
f
