

CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
)DUCT OF THE
M
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 68—No. 3532
Wednesday, October 22, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
PEACEFUL CONG ABBEY BROODS IN SERENE MAJESTY
the ions Iff- of royal O Conors that have been part of Irish
y history, the greatest was Turloch Mor O Conor. During his
reign early in h twelfth century he not only became king of
greater territories than his forebears, but he also made Cong in
County Corrib an important cultural centre. Years before foreign
influence was felt in Ireland, Turloch Mor founded an Irish Abbey,
and established a school of learning which in time embraced
several thousands of su dents. He thus had at his command
native craftsmen and ;rt ;ans whose work is claimed to rival that
of any age and any country.
The August*man Abbey which Turloch Mor built at Cong
was rebuff, 'after fire by his son, who is remembered in Irish
history as Cathal O Conor of the Wine Red Hand, and who
ascended the Throne of Connacht in 1205. Disturbed now only
by the song of the birds, the sleeping Abbey of Cong suffered
raids and burning until it was finally ruined in the sixteenth
century.
One of the most treasured relics of the Abbey for many
centuries was the Cross of Cong, which is now in the Dublin
National Gallery. It is said to have contained a portion of the
Cross, sent to Turloch Mor from Rome in 1123. However, this
relic was lost early in the last century, and only the beautiful
oaken Cross, commonly known as the “Yellow Crozier,” remains
today.


w
——
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, withovt obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
Sty Name
J/f Address
8.8. 247 ..
recently published
GEORGE AND MARGO
By Roland Hoffman. A deeply-moving
story of a man and his house of dreams, 8/6
PATHS TO THE GALLOWS
The factual, thrilling stories of real-life
crime, fankous modern murder trials .. fl/6
murder *N white pit
By John Harrington. The limited edition
of the mystery romance that thrilled
Europe 4/6
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty.Ltd.
Central House, Tittle Regent St., Sydney,
The Red Page
A BOOK OF BRUNER
In the present contusion of taste and
values in the world of Australian art
the Shepherd Press Elioth Gruner has a
pleasantly durable look about it. The
de luxe edition, limited to 200 copies, is
solidly bound in full morocco. Gruner’s
paintings—24 of them reproduced in
color with eight drypoints—look safe
inside it.
Also, of course, they look beautiful.
“Spring Frosts,” Gruner’s masterpiece in
the N. S. Wales National Gallery, a paint-
ing so scrupulously faithful to nature that
one can almost feel the frost on the
post-and-rail fence, and so transfigured
by the artist’s personal vision that it seems
not merely to include but to radiate the
ripple of morning light, has not been
included ; but the morning-light period is
represented by an almost equally exquisite
example, “Dissolving Mists.” There are
two paintings both entitled “Frosty
Morn” ; another, “Blue Morning,” in the
same key of pastoral tranquillity; and, as a
variation, an impression of morning light
on the sea in “Morning Sheen.” “Spring-
time in Devon,” in which there are the
floating Gruner trees —as graceful as any
of Corot’s, from which they derive —as
well as the unique Gruner light, shows
that Gruner, when the business of ex-
hibiting in London took him abroad, had
something profoundly original to say
about English landscape as well as Aus-
tralian.
Gruner will always be best known by
this period. It showed, as his life went,
his limitations. There was to be nothing
of the drama of man against nature in
his work—the sort of thing that Streeton
did once and never again in the superb
“Fire’s On.” Nor was there much of the
drama of nature itself, storm, violence,
the moods of scarlet and black. Gruner
never developed the range of Turner. He
was, in his supreme works, a painter of
light, a lyrist. He was like Keats, a poet,
one feels, who might have written an
“Antony and Cleopatra” but who never
went further than the “Ode to a Night-
ingale.” But the “Ode,” after all, unless
“The Ancient Mariner” beats it, was the
loveliest short poem in the English langu-
age ; and Gruner’s morning-light period,
if it revealed his limitations, showed also
his genius: “the greatest painter of pure
light,” says Norman Lindsay in his intro-
duction to the Shepherd Press book,
“that the world has ever seen.”
Norman Lindsay deals with all
phases of Gruner’s art, and his methods
of painting, and also gives a personal
sketch of the painter, but the essay
begins with a tribute to the morning-
light paintings, and comes back to them
at the end: for that period is Gruner
the peak of his achievement. Though
Lindsay’s praise is high—no higher than
Gruner deserves, but made a little early
for those who are made uneasy by
greatness and those who do not be-
lieve that any Australian could ever be
a great artist —there are the reproductions
to support his case, and the estimate, as
well as being generous, is careful anc
critical:
The greatest painter of pure light the
world has ever seen.... I am not even
excepting Turner in this respect, though
no one has ever yet equalled Turner’s
power of constructive unity in landscape;
of extracting from nature a concept greater
than its factual reality Light was for
Gruner the symbol of happiness. Those
early-morning light subjects of his are a
lyrical outburst of delight in the beauty
of light’s mysterious penetration from outer
space. For Gruner’s skies have the fourth
dimension of infinity. They go beyond
the dome of the atmosphere.
I consider that Gruner’s impetus towards
his own outlook on landscape was vastly
stimulated from two sources. One was the
technical command of the brush-stroke in-
sisted on by Harley Grifiiths; and the
other, the inspiration derived from Corot’s
“Bent Tree” in the Melbourne Gallery.’...
On the impetus of ideas simmering within
him for his own approach to landscape he
went to Emu Plains, and there produced
those astonishing morning-light subjects
which now, with the best works of Streeton
and Heysen, place the Australian school
of landscape painting far beyond the stand-
dard of any works produced in any
country since the era of Turner in Eng-
land and Corot in France It must have
been with a queer exultation of inspired
emotion that Gruner, wrapped up in chaff-
bags to keep the chill out of his blood,
watched for those clear, colorless dawns
to arrive, with a palette set to a key that
would paint the unpaintable, light itself.
Gruner was a great landscape painter,
and therefore it is necessary Jo detine his .
status in the great tradition of landscape
painting. And this, we see, places him as
the direct successor to Corot, though with
a much greater range in achievement than
Corot ever attempted. But then, Gruner had
the advantage of an analysis in color
values made by the Impressionists, wjjich
Corot lacked... .He picked up the crude
analysis of color made by the Impression-
ists and turned it from a dissonance to a
pure harmonic. They painted light im-
pacting on surfaces. Gruner painted light
as a permeation of surfaces and substances.
His trees flame with light. They are not
just tree-masses against light; they are an
emanation of, and a penetration by,
light... .Gruner has added a new power of
seeing to the human eye—the power to
see light as a radiation as well as a radi-
ance. Only an inspired artist can bestow a
gift on humanity as great as that.
Gruner had, of course, other gifts to
bestow besides the morning-light paint
mgs; lesser gifts, or less impressive as
pects of the same gift, but landscapes no
far below the others in both technica
achievement and attraction. In fact, the
richest painting in the present volume
not a typical misty morning subject bu ;
On the Sovereign River,” a canvas o:;
clouds and trees and cattle and under
growth and water, full of the poetry of
the earth rather than the illumination o
the sky.
There are, too, illustrating the range
of Gruner’s achievement, some of those
hot, typically Australian noontide sub-
jects of blue skies and gum-trees and the
red earth showing through the grass
which he painted in the hills around Yass
and Canberra; a couple of flower-pieces
an interior; a remarkably fine self-por-
trait, somewhat in thei Meldrum manner,
which has not previously been repro-
duced ; and, most nearly matching as
class his morning paintings, a group of
seascapes, notable among which is “Pacific
Beach”—a glimpse of the splendor of the
N. S. South Coast, painted with
dramatic appreciation of height and
space as well as with the most subtle
observation of the graduations of green
and buff in the colors of sea and sand.
Considering Gruner’s art as a whole,
the word that springs to mind is
“delicacy”: delicacy of perception, deli-
cacy of craftsmanship, delicacy of
achievement; something at once slender
and strong, subtle and far-reaching; like
light.
It is not very long since nearly all the
great Australian paintings in the New
South Wales Gallery were dumped in the
dark of the cellars and a circus of crude
French prints took their places. The
Australian works have been back on
view in recent weeks, and at present,
with a gigantic Rupert Bunny, Tom
Roberts’s “Bailed Up,” Gruner’s “Spring
Frosts” and other paintings on the grand
scale in one court and with Hugh Ram-
say’s “The Sisters” to be seen close by
through the archway, the Gallery looks
magnificent. But elsewhere the attack on
Australian art continues: and for that
reason alone the Shepherd Press EUoth
Gruner is welcome. It is a reassertion of
faith; and a substantial one.
Moreover, it is in itself a beautiful
piece of craftsmanship. The blue morocco
binding is unobtrusively embellished in
gold, and there is a gilt dust edge to the
pages. Text and plates are reproduced
letterpress, and the paper is a good
Georgian. The plates, interleaved with
hand-made paper, reproduce the subtle-
ties of Gruner’s palette with admirable
fidelity. Reproductions, printing, title
page, binding and finishing combine to
make it the outstanding production of
the Shepherd Press to date, a book which
must rank very high among Australian
editions de luxe and which could well
bear comparison with the best work of
the fine-art presses overseas. Gruner’s
art, in short, has been treated with the
respect it deserves.
Three English Poets .
The arrival of three little books of
poems from Dent’s proves at last that,
however much publishers are hampered
by restrictions and maddened by the
Government, the war has given way to
peace. It is almost as if the war had
never been. As Stanley Snaith puts it in
the best of his verses in The Inn of Night.
the wild rose goes on flowering:
When lightning gripped the wild rose tree,
Left her with paper leaves, and lame.
The sap soon came to terms with flame.
Something was anxious not to lose
The outrageous partiality
For serving its arboreal brent—
Intent upon its own intent.
Though she is only wood and juice,
Nor presumes to prove a use
In breeding leaf and flower and fruit,
And has no tears to spare for war,
Her heresy could take worse turns
Than going about her own concerns,
For all the world as if she thought
The world worth living for.
The three little books are too light and
slight for one to draw prodigious con-
clusions from them. Still, so dolorous
has been most of the Faber poetry for
the last 10 years, it is not only pleasing
but mildly astonishing to see that Mr.
Snaith finds “the world worth living for.”
It is also noticeable, now England has
achieved the Socialism that most of the
Faber poets asked for, that these Dent
poets are agin it. Hal Summers in
Hinterland turns in mockery on Plato, the
father of all Utopianists:
You were right, Plato, to drive us from your
city;
In your city should live none such as we;
Drive us beyond your borders without pity,
Crowned it may be and treated honorably;
But away with us and our dangerous heresy.
You would have truth and we bring you our
pretences,
Your badge is abstinence, the ivy is ours,
We bring you dangers, you would have defences,
You would restrain the heart from laughter and
tears,
Therefore you must expel us, for they are our
wares.
And John Short in The Oak and the
Ash has a socialistic Punch saying:
The ways of our Puppet Master
Are curious to relate.
But briefly, He aims at forming
A worshipper of the State.
(Call it the stage we dance on,
The term is never defined)
Your infant’s function is simple:
To work with the communal mind.
Again, all these poets, though speak-
ing freshly enough, use
traditional forms, and are comprehensible
and (moderately) melodious.
But these are all very minor versifiers.
They belong to the English rustic tradition
—the Georgians—without having any-
thing remotely like Blunden’s strength <br
Davies’s flashing vision. John Short, the
weakest of the three, opens with a pleas-
antly bouncing sort of poem about West-
moreland, but afterwards descends to die-
scribing a swan as floating “like a billidrd
ball over baize.” Hal Summers, saying
the usual sort of things about snow,/rain
and seashells nicely enough, dips less
successfully into a surrealist nightmare
world where demonic voices say “A
hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hq” at
him; and, speaking of the delights of
silence, he offers at least one quatrain to
which silence would certainly be pre-
ferable : \
But against these few favorable and vernal
Occasions, how many fatal! And for choice
Of the two worst, I name here the internal ,
Combustion engine and the human voice.
Snaith, as the “Wild Rose” quotation
ishould indicate, is by far the most)
promising of the three. He derives his\
conversational style from Robert Frost/
but seems to have a genuine response
to nature, with a lyrical touch of his
own. If he has nothing like Yeats’s “Wild!
Swans ,at Code,” at least his description;
of that bird as a “white thunder-blossom”!
is more encouraging than a billiard ball. }
America and Australia .
The surprising thing is that Dr. Werner
Levi’s well-documented survey of
American-Australian Relations (Minne-
sota Press, Minneapolis) should come
out of the traditionally isolationist Middle
West. The author is assistant professor
of political science at the University of
Minnesota.
Dr. Levi begins his history with Captain
Reed, who, in his ship Alliance, from
Delaware, sailed the Tasman Sea —the
first American to do so —some months
before Phillip founded his settlement,
and did so in the course of opening a
new route to China via the Cape of
Good Hope. Others promptly followed
him, and one of them, a Captain Patrick-
son, put into Port Jackson in November,
1792, with a cargo of “assorted notions”
(including rum), on the suggestion of
Philip Gidley King, a member of Captain
Cook’s crew in the Endeavour, and later
Governor of New South Wales.
This started something. The young
colony badly wanted provisions and (as
Governor Macquarie recorded a few
years later), “the Nature of the Inhabit-
ants of this Country is such that Spirits
Must be had.” The American skippers
carried rum for the sake of acquiring
specie for the purchase of their China
cargoes, and so to compete with the
British East India Company.
American whalers and seal-fishers were
the next. Convicts wanted to get away
and American whalers wanted fishing
gangs, the hardier the better. Their
skippers would hire colonists and some-
times drop them S.N.L.R. on some far-
away island. The native islanders suf-
fered most of all. In Westralia one U.S.
whaler was discovered assisting some
Irish Fenians to escape from the colony.
The Westralian coast was the favorite
meeting place for American whaling
ships, and their growing custom hastened
the formal British settlement of the West
in 1829. What hustled the Admiralty was
the appearance there of an American
man-o’-war, not (as the colonists sup-
posed) to take possession but to protect
the ‘whalers.
The first American Consul arrived in
Sydney in 1836, a Mr. James H. Williams,
and had a very friendly welcome. Even
in those days, when the colony was striv-
mg to produce some exchange trade
commodity, the Americans raised arti-
ficial barriers against the import of Aus-
tralian wool, and just as incomprehensibly
to Australians then as now.
Gold discoveries brought the two coun-
tries into much closer popular acquaint-
ance. To the ’49 rush in California
800 Australians had migrated by
the end of that year, and the Cali-
fornians were soon protesting against
the influx of “the convicts of Mexico,
Chihli [Chile] and Botany Bay.” San
Francisco vigilantes at length took mea-
sures of their own against “Sidney gangs,
and Dr. Levi says the anti-foreign senti-
ment aroused “can still be found in Cali-
fornia today.”
Relief came with the Australian gold
discoveries—or rather the proclamation
of goldfields which Government officials
had known of since 1823, but kept secret
for fear of exciting “the convict popula-
tion”—and therewith the tide of migra-
tion set the other way. Miners and
merchants came in from California, the
former mostly to leave again dis-
appointed, but many merchants re-
mained. Samuel McGowan, of Boston,
built the first magnetic telegraph line
from Melbourne to Geelong and Ameri-
cans managed the line. Trade across the
Pacific leapt in value. American clipper
ships appeared and were introduced to
the Australian-English run, also, and in
1853 the first Australian Steamship Line
was established in New York. Cobb and
Co. pioneered inland communications;
the buggy and the bush-coach were per-
haps the most widely-familiar benefits
from imported American business enter-
prises. Levi does not mention the
debt owed by Australians to American
irrigation farming and the engineers and
planters who established it in this country.
The closing chapters of American-
Australian Relations, following a lucid
survey of the growth of American
political interest in the south Pacific
and of Australia’s instinctive welcome
to “the standard-bearer in the Pacific
of the white race,” are necessarily in-
complete. Dr. Levi mentions some
aspects of Dr. Evatt’s foreign policy, but
not its most conspicuous recent achieve-
ment of chasing the American Navy
Department out of a base at Manus where
we should be glad to have a strong ally.
Drover And Sailor.
A simple land you traverse, much like sea,
Like open ocean, trafficable road
For a herd of ships—your horses, sheep.
You have been seeing sheep like waves;
the sky
With an open look, the sea’s gaze; no
shade
To escape the aquiline sun; no sleep
To be snatched under tidal trees; no rest;
No new vista in valley, from wave’s crest.
It has the sounds of the. sea; shell-
silences.
And winds that speak in whispers, drums
rolling.
Plains are, no place for city limpets,
whelks,
Hugging sheer coasts; afraid of distances
On land or ocean. This no road for
strolling.
May as well walk at sea. Here, nobody
walks.
The dust is blowing in on you. You in
the dray
Learn dust hates water, as sea hates land
in its way.
But people become accustomed to land,
or water.
The sailor is at home in deserts; the
drover, too.
Has love of the sea. Both watch the
swans fly over :
Guided by similar signs; stars, fellow-
laughter,
And bells—the drover has his bells. How
few
The differences between these two, sailor
and drover.
How vast a plain divides them, land and
\ sea,
Reaching between them Earth's great
\ unity.
OUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


HOME FURNISHINGS MONTH
||| |||||p
& M
li
m
\
ii r
1
mMM
i«S
:¥«*>
sSb&W'SS
SWS
. v.
s
riMK
I
• :; v.
iiii
«*»«*
■ '
*
S
»
i
Wc>,. s
PS**-
/i-r^
7 ; f *
rs
I'U
i_j\-
fir
is.
TYr
2^f
r*
Xv vvo«*fc:
iiSSiw
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
’PHONE: lyl 240 f, DAY AND NIGHT BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY
EIGHT-PIECE DINING ROOM SUITE in Veneered Walnut, consisting of
Sideboard, Refectory Table and six shaped-back Chairs with seats upholstered
in selected materials. Finished in medium Walnut colour. Price, £6l/13/-
TABLE RUNNERS made from Velvets, Chenilles, Damasks, Brocades, with silk
fringed ends. Prices from 5/11 to 15/11 each
TAILORED TUFTED CHENILLE CURTAINS, 6ft. 6in. drop. 13 cpns. £3/13/- ea
CENTRE NET CURTAINS made from 50in. open mesh Fisher Net. 6ft. 6in. drop.
No coupons. Price 19/6 each
• Furniture and Furnishings Department—Third Floor.
MEAKINS ENGLISH FINE SEMI-PORCELAIN TEA SET, 20 pieces. Cotswold
pattern, an underglaze decoration showing a floral spray of Pink, Blue, also
Yellow colourings and Brown leaves on an Ivory finished ware. Set comprises
6 Cups and Saucers, 6 7-inch Bread' and Butter Plates, 1 Sugar Bowl, 1 Cream Jug,
Price 41/3 set
China and Glassware Dept.—Third Floor.
THREE-PIECE CHROME LOUNGE SUITE suitable for sunrooms, lounges, clubs,
hotels, guest houses, professional rooms, etc. Frames are of sturdy Hin. diameter
chrome steel tube. Upholstered in Tapestry Moquette or Fabricord with sprung
seats and padded back and arm rests. Prices, from £34/ ■• /
STANDARD LAMPS AND PLASTIC SHADES. Metal bridge standard Lamps,
solidly constructed, complete with push bar switch and flex. Finished m
Cream, £4/15/9. Burnished finish, £4/13/9. 16in.- Washable Plastic Shades
in Amber, Lemon, Blue, Green, Pink and Cream 15/9 each
• Fufniture and Furnishings—Third Floor.
SELF COLOUR FIGURED DAMASK CUSHIONS, fancy or plain shapes
No coupons. Price '
FLORAL PRINT AND LINEN CUSHIONS with piped, pleated and rolled edges,
kapok filled. Prices range from 25/11 to 45/ eac


WEIGHT
APPROX.
4i TONS
The “MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY.
MARS MACHINE
TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VIO. —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —-
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI —The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
I
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q'LAND OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
O
*
■
-■
H K
■ -
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
Airway Caret, hi
woven-striped,
waterproofed canvas
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
it limited . . .
but increasing!
A
in any Hudyiny/
First past the finishing buoy, this majestic winner
compares well with the famed Tintara Wine—Tin-
tara Gold Label Port—first in its class. After any
form of sport, exercise or work, a glass of Tintara
Gold Label Port restores energy and soothes un-
settled nerves. After meals and before retiring.
Gold Label Port acts as an aid to digestion and
a promotor of sound sleep. MEET THE
CHAMPIONS: Adelaide Wine Show —Cham-
pion Prizes—Florfino Sherry; Old Castle
Riesling; Fine Old Liqueur Port. Sydney
Royal Show Champion Prize Old
Liqueur Port; First and Second Prize—
Old Brandy. First Prizes Vintage
Port; Export Port; Export Muscatel;
Fine Old Liqueur Port. Melbourne
Wine Show —Champion Prizes—
Fine Old Liqueur Port; Old
Castle Riesling.
7
\
- 7
Of TIC in
- nri
□n"
u
7 often wonder what the vintners buy
One half so -precious as the goods they sell”
OMAR KHAYYAM
TH67
MADE BY THOMAS HARDY & SONS LTD., ADELAIDE, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Seven Pillars of Wisdom by
T. E. Lawrence. —4132.
To buy, copy of Old Age—Retirement and
the Last Messenger by Bishop Montgomery.
4131. _ .
To buy copies of Southward Ho by Nossiter,
Singlehanded Round the World by Pidgeon,
and Voyage of the Tai-Mo-Shan. —4126.
Meaning of aboriginal word “Eula.” —4130.
To buy copy of Round the World With a
C ircus. —4l27.
Plans of aii Bft. or 10ft. bondwood-covered,
single-sail dinghy.—4l29.
Metallurgy of Lead, by H. O. Hofman, and
Lead and Zinc, published by the American
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.—4l2B.
Information Sought.
Some particulars concerning the Burnewang
Estate (Vic.), recently made available for soldier-
settlement ?
This estate adjoins the township of Elmore
and runs north-easterly for a distance of about
six miles. It is about 30 miles from Bendigo
with good road access. The property has re-
cently been used for grazing purposes and
about 1450 acres have been cleared, the balance
of about 2850 acres being lightly timbered with
box and bulloak, with odd sheoak trees through-
out and redgum timber along the whole of
the river frontages. The whole of the estate
is fairly level, with a slight fall to the Campaspe
River, and the land is suitable for mixed farm-
ing and cereal growing.
* * * *
What is the pledge required of Parliamentary
candidates by the A.L.P. in N. S. Wales?
“I hereby pledge myself not to oppose any
selected and endorsed candidate of the Aus-
tralian Labor party, New South Wales branch.
I also pledge myself, if returned to Parliament,
on all occasions to do my utmost to ensure
the carrying out of the principles embodied in
the Labor Platform, and on all such questions,
especially on questions affecting the fate of a
Government, to vote as a majority of the Labor
party may decide at a Caucus meeting. I
further pledge myself not to retire from the
contest without the consent of the Executive
of the Australian Labor party, New South Wales
branch. I also pledge myself to actively sup-
port and advocate at all times the party’s
objective the socialisation of industry, pro-
duction, distribution and exchange.”
♦ * * ♦
How to clean white marble?
A solution of potassium permanganate about
\ p.c. strength is made, the permanganate being
dissolved in hot water. This is then brushed
into the marble until uniform penetration is
obtained. Before it is allowed to dry it is
treated with a solution of ammonia and a little
sodium hydrosulphite in warm water. Add the
ammonia first, as otherwise the hydrosulphite
will be decomposed; this is then sponged on
to the marble, when the violet coloration of
the permanganate will entirely disappear, leaving
a clean white surface. If one application is not
enough it can be repeated without harming the
marble. If the marble is greasy an initial .wash-
ing with soda ash rriay be resorted to, being
well rinsed with clean water before applying
tire permanganate solution.
*,* * *
(1) 7 have only had failure in trying to grow
Geraldton Wax shrubs in a Sydney suburb.
What is the reason? (2) Can these shrubs be
propagated from cuttings?
(1) Probably the soil you have been using
is too freely impregnated with lime or chemical
manure. Before planting native shrubs all soil
should be replaced with bush loam. Also good
drainage and minimum of watering are essential.
(2) Short pieces of two-year-old wood placed
in pots containing a mixture of sand, loam
and pulverised charcoal will give a big per-
centage of “strikes.”
* * * *
Who are the present amateur boxing cham-
pions of Australia ?
Neville Rincheval, flyweight; O. Hardy,
bantamweight; Laurie Birks, featherweight;
Kevin Thurbon, since turned professional, light-
weight; Archie Kemp, since turned professional,
welterweight; W. Gough, middleweight; A.
Holmes, light-heavyweight; J. Belford, heavy-
weight.
» * * *
Treatment for rust on the foliage of Canadian
Wonder beans?
Remove affected leaves and burn them;
where disease is bad dig up plants and throw
them in the incinerator. Plants left should be
sprayed with lime-sulphur mixture (make sure
to treat the under part of the leaves). Such
land should not be used for another crop of
beans during the season; but after being heavily
limed the plot is suitable for carrots, beetroot
and other root vegetables.
Brief Answers.
V.D.: According to available statistics, in
1945 there were 3.59 divorces per 1000 popu-
lation in the U.S.A. For the same year there
were 12.26 marriages per 1000 population. De-
tails about divorce rates in specific cities and
localities are not available in Sydney....
C.G.D.: Paspalum dilatatum is a native of the
Argentine. No record of how it was in-
troduced into Australia H.M.: Unless you
served in the Darwin area for a period of three
months between February 19, 1942, and Novem-
ber 12, 1943, or are certified to be suffering
from pulmonary tuberculosis, you are not
eligible to participate in Service Pension benefits,
as you did not serve in a theatre of war, as
defined in Section 23 of the Aust. Soldiers
Repatriation Act. You should get m touch
with the Department of Social Services, Aus-
tralia House, 52 Carrington-street, Sydney, with
the view to obtaining an Old Age Pension, as
you have attained the age of 65....A.A.:
Write General Secretary, St. John Ambulance
Assoc., 21 Macquarie-place, Sydney
“Laundry Advertiser,” 26 Jamieson-street, Syd-
ney L.H.A.G.: Song beginning “The Law
is the true embodiment of everything that s
excellent” is sung by the Lord Chancellor in
Gilbert and Sullivan’s “lolanthe” A. 8.; The
Light Horse and Pony Control Council ot
N. S. Wales, Endeavor House, 33 Macquane-
place, Sydney, will be pleased to forward you
their rules and regulations for show-ring riding
and judging....M.J.C.: Whenever new moon
occurs two or three days before September i
the crescent moon will be seen near the western
horizon on that date. For example, it would
have been seen on September 1, 1946, when the
new moon occurred on August 26....J.L:
Get in touch with the United States Infor-
mation Library, care N.S.W. Public Library,
Sydney 8.C.: The chairman of a meeting
is in order in accepting an amendment to a
motion that has been moved under a notice
of motion given at a previous meeting....
R.K.M.: Suggest that you get in touch with
the Director, National Art Gallery of N.S.W.,
The Domain, Sydney J.S.: Write N.S.W.
Govt. Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin-
place, Sydney M.S.: Non-lummous infra-
red lamp favored for rheumatic conditions,
joint pains, arthritis, etc. Luminous for localisea
skin disorders. In short supply, prices range
from 10 to 20 guineas.. . .J.D.H.: The C-LA.
law concerning the lead in solo whist is tnai..
“In every case the lead shall .be made by tne
player on the left of the dealer.” The C.IA.
law concerning the lead in auction solo is-
“ The lead in every case to be next to tne
dealer, with the exception that when a player
calls an Abondance Declaree with no trumps
he has the 1ead”.... C.G.P.: Write Heniy
Disston and Sons Pty., Ltd., Vine-street, R
fern (N.S.W.) D.R.; Narraweena means A
quiet place on a hill” R. 8.: Ernest Lenn,
192-194 George-street, Sydney R.S.H.: top
seal is a name or nom-de-plume reading img
shan.” The bottom seal seems to read Beau-
tiful Collection Hall.” They are apparently
seals used by an artist C.H.P.: Suggesttha
you write to Whitcombe and Tombs, book
Lifers! Wellington, N.Z L.H.D.: Soag
that you write to Prof. A. L. Sadler, Profess
of Oriental Studies, University of Sydney••• •
A.8.C.: If you will send us your name ano
address we shall forward you a copy or me
“Disston Saw, Tool and File Manual
A.T.H.: That co.’s latest balance-sheet will oe
reviewed shortly. Previous history bas
covered in some detail in Wild Cat Mon™
for June and July, 1947 .. .D.S.M.: Formate
is given on page 425 of Kemp’s Engineering
Year Book, 1945.


Missing Friend.
TO ADA NELLIE HOOK (raee SHEBD), last heard
of in Melbourne, married to Walter John Hook, late
of Aitape, in the Territory of New Guinea. Please
communicate with the Curator of Intestate Estates
of the Territory of New Guinea, administrator of the
estate of the abovenamed Walter John Hook, de-
ceased. ANY PERSON having knowledge of the
whereabouts or of the death or divorce of the said
Ada Nellie Hook is requested to advise the under-
signed.—G. T. WELLS, Curator of Intestate Estates.
Port Moresby, 3rd October, 1917.
Angus & Robertson’s Book Selection
JOY IN THE MORNING. A new novel by P. G. Wodehouse. 9/9 (post 4d.).
THE BRACK ROSE. An historical romance by Thomas B. Costain. 9/9 (post 4d.).
CHALLENGE TO DESTINY. By Ethel Boileau & Baxter Ellis. 11/6 (post 4d.).
THE HOLLOW. A new novel by Agatha Christie. 8/6 (post 4d.).
PEGMEN TARES. By Ella McT ad yen.
m hn ppo-men family are only clothespegs to begin with, but we soon forget
.. we follow the adventures of Mrs. Peg and her sons, Dan and
Nobby. Dlifstrated. 8/6 (post 4d.).
IV THE RAND OF THE TARKING TREES. By Michael Noonan.
" . M * (ininea fantasy about the adventures of Private Dusty among the
Any jungle people. Illustrations by D. H. Gilmore. 8/6 (post 4d.).
POPPY FACES THE WORRD. By Pixie O'Harris.
A new book by the author of Poppy Treloar.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
1
H
RUM
OVERPROOF
FESQ. CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. ESI. 1848 [mil
SC&L DODGE?
Va
DODGE
TRUCKS
FMeowxn
CHRYSLER, DODGE
DE SOTO, PLYMOUTH
DODGE & FARGO TRUCKS
■■■wiT- - //
in Engineering
=Ts
IS 11 J ;■»
\\\W
jin the past 23 years, Chrysler-Dodge engineers have pioneered,
developed or introduced a greater number of noteworthy engineer-
ling features than any other group of engineers in the Automobile
[lndustry. [You always get the good things first from C.D.D.!
★ FULL PRESSURE LUBRICATION FOR MODERATE PRICED CARS * HIGH COMPRESSION * HY-
DRAULIC 4-WHEEL BRAKES * CRANKSHAFT VIBRATION DAMPER (RUBBER & STEEL) * RUST-
PROOFED BODY, FENDERS & SHEET METAL PARTS * RUBBER-CORED SPRING SHACKLES * OIL
FILTER * CARBURETTOR AIR CLEANER * SMALL DIAMETER ROAD WHEELS * ENGINE
HEAT INDICATOR ON INSTRUMENT PANEL * DOWN DRAFT CARBURETTOR * STANODIZED
(TIN COATED) ALUMINIUM PISTONS * FLOATING POWER * BALANCED CAR WEIGHT
★ ROLLER BEARING UNIVERSAL JOINTS * ALL STEEL BODIES ★ ELECTRIC SHIELD
WIPER * HELICAL GEARS THROUGHOUT TRANSMISSION * EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS
★ SAFETY SIGNAL LIGHT ON INSTRUMENT PANEL * AUTOMATIC OVER-DRIVE TRANS-
MISSION * THREE PASSENGER FRONT SEAT * INDIRECTLY LIGHTED INSTRUMENT
PANEL * AMOLA STEEL * TAPERED LEAF SPRINGS ★ RUBBER INSULATED STEERING
GEAR * SAFETY STYLED BODY INTERIORS ★ RUBBER INSULATED BODY MOUNTINGS
★ CHAIR HEIGHT SEATS ★ FULL-FLOW OIL FILTER ★ TWO TONE UPHOLSTERING ★ FLUID
DRIVE * ROTOR TYPE OIL PUMP * COUNTER-BALANCED TRUNK LID * SAFETY RIM
WHEEL ★ BY-PASS THERMOSTAT FOR COOLING SYSTEM * AUTOMATIC UNDER DRIVE
TRANSMISSION * ELECTRIC PETROL GAUGE ON INSTRUMENT PANEL * SWAY
ELIMINATOR ★ SUPERFINISH
C hrpler
Wribuiors
(AUSTRALIA) PIT.ITD,
Ltd .
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty. Ltd., Harden and Johnston Ltd.. York' Motors Pry. Ltd.
• MELBOURNE: Automobiles Pty. Ltd., Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic■) Ply. Ltd., Lane sMo y.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pry. Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.
• ADELAIDE: Waymouth Motor Company Limited, Flinders Motors Limited.
• PERTH: Winterbotlom Motor Company Limited, Wentworth Motors Limited. ,
• hobart: H. C. Heathorn id Co. Ltd., Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Co-Operative Motors Limited, CDIIT
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS, will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
E.Q.: It is possibly the first totally incom-
prehensible poem about a railway engine yet
written F.R.: “Paddy Murphy’s Liz” fell
to pieces in the w.p.b Smokedrift; If you’re
talking about a forester’s shack don’t call it
a “woodman’s cot”... .8.M.: That’ll fix them:
What an insult to the nation
Is the present proclamation
Of Nationalisation
Hallmark of incompetency ,
Who cannot save his money
Should not be quite so . funny
As to make conspicuous others
That are his competent brothers.
A.L.C.; Prefer the old white sow to the
“gems on memory strung”... .E.M.; Have a
look at Furnley Maurice’s “Melbourne Odes.”
J.T.: Could be a lot worse, but it takes
a Kipling to sound that trumpet J.8.L.:
Read with relish by the Religious Editor
V.J.F.: One line, then: “Let freedom of bank-
ing be our 50ng”....A.0.: In the midst of
familiar thought and conventional imagery there
is a trace of genuine lyricism... .Anne: Just
the title, then:. “Ye Banks and Frays”
L. : Once again, learn restraint G.W.:
You’ve far to go J.V.M.: Found poem on
work exhausting E.D.: Description’s not
enough; see if you can tell a story... .E.H.:
Try a woman’s paper 1.D.: We’d need to
know who wrote it....8.C.; Unab'le to take
more than a passing interest in the conversation
of wasps and bees.... J.V.C.: The gumtrees
“frowned in anger” at the dingo who “sneaked
away to hide”—fair dinkum? ... .K.R.C.: For
a first attempt it tackles too ambitious a theme.
Ox: Park here:
‘
. ...W.8.; Your fighting parson, “as fine a
specimen of muscular Christian as ever existed,”
went down in the first round A.H.C.:
“Superstition” was read on the 13th, which
might explain why it was rejected J.A.:
It’s tough enough having to cope with a crop
of spring poems without having to struggle
with a 10,000-word story on the season....
M. : “Romance in a Puppy Shop” is a
little too puppyish for us 8.C.: More a
sermon than a short story L.J.K.; Must you
use every adjective in the dictionary? 8.L.:
Chifley might appreciate your story about the
dauntless enginedriver W.S.N.: Halfway
through we turned to the end and, as we
expected, the last line read: “The beating of
the rain on the iron roof was music to his
ears”... .C.W.: It could happen, perhaps, but
we have never met an “eminent judge accom-
panied by an ecclesiastical dignitary” at a two-
up school A.R.8.: It falters badly towards
the end... .T.T.H.: So, the stolen money
turned out to be counterfeit. It always does
in that class of story R.G.: Your charac-
ters talk as if they hailed from Brooklyn
(U.5.A.)... .C.P.H.: Reads like a slab from
“Hansard” G.G.; Yours reads like an ex-
tract from a tourist guide A.N.P.: Having
had a long experience of the inside of a news-
paper office we can’t believe that pressmen
behave like that while on the j0b....W.D.:
Not wanting stories told in diary form....
D.V.: Even the office cat was suspicious....
A.G.W.: Send story belonging to lavender-and-
old-lace school to a woman’s magazine
K. 8.: As dry and as old as the dust of Pompeii.
... .Y. 8.: That trick has been worked on s.-p.
bookies many times N.P.: We found
your blue-stocking a terrible bore W.A.: A
long array of statistics has no place in a short
story G.T.: Just a long-winded sigh for the
good old days when beer was fourpence a pint.
S.W.: One of these days a doctor, called
on to operate upon his wife’s lover, will forget
the ethics of his profession and allow the
rogue to die....J.D.: The one-legged digger
whose lass lost a leg to a shark has our sym-
pathy... .E.F.: Watch your grammar and avoid
cliches... .A.Q.: No room in a short story for
those frequent and lengthy flash-backs
A.H.H.: It may be historically sound but it’s
a poor yarn.... W.T.A.: “He was a sun-
bleached Bananalander, she is a rosy-red Apple
Islander; Ralph was a Cabbage Gardener.”
Send your fruit-salad elsewhere T.H.W.:
Your opening sentence: “After all Man is a
human being” is this week’s most original and
profound observation P.P.: Not interested
in small-town religious feud N.T.T.: Your
collection of snake yarns strung together, with
frequent pauses for a swig of rum, doesn’t make
a short story... .P.C.: Gallant attempt to base
a story on the fact that a bloke slipped on
a cake of soap in his bathroom was a failure.
... .M.P.: Other yarn-spinners have beaten you
to the post with that idea... .A.L,: No cheers
greeted the arrival of that ancient, friend
M.R.J.: Your sole ambition in “A Night at
Joe’s” appears to be to see how many drinks
you can pour down ,your characters’ throats.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.G.D.: Did you take your lessons in a wax-
works? ... .A.P.R.: Others have thought of the
burglar who beat politician to strong-room
H.S.: Passable as illustrations for fairy stories.
. ...R.McD.; Received poster-sized portrait of
“The Man in the Moon.” Suggest that you
send it to the Astronomer Royal L.F.: Any
abo. rock-carver could teach you a lot about
the game D.D.: Gag tottered as far as our
front doorstep, where it collapsed from old age.
M.D.T.: Can’t see you reaching the pub-
lication standard this side of the half-century.
. ...E.H.P.: In the olden days you might have
made a fortune —or had your head chopped
pff—as a designer of gargoyles... .E. 8.5.: The
situation in Palestine is complicated enough
without your adding to the tangle with your
confused cartoons... .P. 8.; The chief trouble
is tl>at the caricature is unlike the subject....
L.D.: Fair go, mate! We published that gag
a couple of weeks back... .A.M.H.: Your
friends are kidding you up a gumtree T.R.:
Too much like Thurber at his worst....
K.McK.: Your tight-rope walker overbalanced
into the basket... .S.W.: All the tubes of China
white in the world wouldn’t conceal your faults.
... .A.A.; Our dungeons are full of such dead-
beats L.M.A.: That gag always turns up
with the approach of the Melbourne Cup
J.L.: Why do you always give your ladies a
small moustache? A.F.M.: You can’t draw
a goldfish; you can’t even draw a goldfish
b0w1... .T.V.J.: There’s some good drawing
in “Sunday Morning at the ’Shearers’ Arms,’ ”
but where’s the joke? ....W.H.: Promising;
keep on trying... .A.C.D.: We’re looking for
a brighter line of gags than the ones you send
along... .S.C.; You had better give the game
away... .T.McW.: Only faintly amused by
what the chap in kilts said to the lass in
long skirts J.E.P.: Look us up when you’ve
grown up....A.N.: The gags .pulled them
down S.P.M.; Sorry, but we can’t see you
breaking into our next Christmas Number with
your first effort... .A.P.: None of them stood
a chance.
HYDE PARK.
Where nothing is hidden
And all can be seen
From the Archibald fountain
To statue of Victoria, Queen.
Where lunch crowds assemble
On seats or on green
Enjoying the sunshine
And the interesting scene.
Where shoppers rest for a while
After a trying day
And brace themselves for the battle
Boarding trams on their way.
Where the Anzac Memorial
That reverent pile
Is a conspicuous landmark
For many a mile.


(heck these features--
\
<■ ■*&
&
I
ll's simple as A B C. It means that if you wish to
enjoy the real comforts of life you should insulate
your home with 8.1. Slagwool.
• IN SUMMER: B.L Slagwool keeps your home
from 8° to 15° cooler even on the hottest days.
® IN WINTER: Your fuel bills will be up
to 35% lighter. 8.1. Slagwool keeps all the
rooms uniformly comfortable.
insulation rr*
HEAD OFFICE: 190 Sussex Street. Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins St., Melbourne; Shell House, Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM, Shell House, North Terrace, Adelaide.
T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray Street. Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street. Brisbane. FLOWER. DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD.. Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin.
81.82.3
Cvv
geM
cm
?
GEM Set
Today s Best Value
British made, this full Nickel Plated Gem Razor is offered,
complete with 2 Gem Double-Life Blades, in serviceable Bake-
lite Case for only 3/-.
Stocks are limited. Buy yours today. Obtainable from most
Stores, Chemists, and Tobacconists.
AVOfD *S O'CLOCK SHADOW*W/TH
GEM
RAZORS and BLADES
K
IS
MIKE MALONEY'S HORSES
By
OLAF RUHEN
MIKE Maloney’s saddle was hung
about like a Christmas tree.
There was a blanket roll on the
pommel, and a slicker roll on
the cantle. There was a picket rope, and
a tomahawk in a leather holster. There
was a pig-skin wallet stuffed to bursting
and a long roll of half-cover slung over
th© knee-pads on the near side.
The saddle itself was mounted with a
breast - plate and a crupper, and big
Mexican four-bar stirrups. It was a
Queensland Breaker with big knee-pads
and thigh-pads, and though it was well
worn it was ornate in its way, but the
bridle was a simple one-strap affair, with-
out even a neck-band, plaited out of deer-
hide in a cunning five-ply plait of which
you couldn’t find a stray end. The reins
were the same, and looked well used.
There was a billy too, fire-blackened,
and rolling and bobbing about on the
grey mare’s flanks from the corner of the
slicker roll. It was fire-blackened, but
shiny above the color, and it seemed as
though it were much more used to the
warmth of horse-flesh than the heat of a
camp-fire.
THE first time I saw Mike was in the
Pass itself. I was driving the old
Chrysler, so I was going pretty careful.
And in any case I knew too much about
the Pass to let her head go. There were
about sixteen leaks in the hydraulic
system and I didn’t have any brakes at
all, but even if I had been driving some-
thing ten years more up-to-date I couldn’t
have put on any speed there.
Tourists used to come through the
Pass in summer time from our end, and
we’d see their dust as they rolled up
the river flat and hit the first bend, but
a lot of them were going slower when
they came out at the other end, ten
miles further on.
The road followed the river pretty
well. It was a natural route, and it was
overhung by the rimrock, a couple of
hundred feet above. In the gaps that
slashed the marching line of rimrock, the
gravel slides came right to the road.
From the rimrock upward to the top
of the hill there was a steep slope for
2000 feet. Daley Pass was marked on
the map as 7990 feet high, but that wasn’t
really the height of the Pass, It was the
height of the peak above it.
The peak was rock and rubble. The
road side of the Pass lay to the sun,
and was as bare of fodder as a winter
beach. The rock had rotted and
weathered, and the gravel slides were so
bad we kept the dogs booted in the
mustering season, and we wouldn’t have
tried to get off the road with a hack that
wasn’t bred in the country.
On the dark side of the Pass, the
tussock grew lush in the summer, but
the winter feed grew on the sunny side
amongst the rocks. It was rich country
as high country goes. In good years it
ran a sheep to six acres, but there was
a heavy mortality in seasons when the
snow came early.
Speed was dangerous in the Pass.
There were always sheep down on the
road, and sometimes a few Shorthorns
wandered in from the river valley. They
weren’t used to traffic, and when a car
came along they had only one place to
go, and that was up the edges of the
gravel slides between the rimrocks. As
they went up, the gravel came down, and
I’ve seen more than one piece go through
the hood of a car like a swamp-hen
through the reeds, I say gravel, but it
came in pieces the size of car batteries,
some of it.
SO, driving through the Pass, I had
plenty of time to look at Mike
Maloney. He was well mounted. He
rode a grey mare that had plenty of life
in her. She was hill-country bred, with
stocky pasterns that would keep her sure-
footed. She’d had a cobbed tail, but
the hair was grown long again. She
looked a sound type of 14-stone hack,
though Mike, thin and all as he was,
wouldn’t ride more than 12, even after
you allowed for all the gear about the
saddle.
On top of the roll on the pommel was
a dog, a terrier, black-spotted on white,
but with a long furred tail that denied
any claim to decent ancestry. The old
man rode with a hand on the dog, the
hand that held the rein, and didn’t look
about him as I passed by him. He looked
straight ahead, though the mare was
picking her way carefully on the brink of
the fall to the river.
I told the boss about him when I got
in. Most of the men in that corner were
quiet men, but the* boss used to talk, and
so they called him “Brag”—Brag Denton.
I told him about the old man on the
good horse coming our way through the
“He’ll be along in half an hour,” I
said. “He’ll probably stay here, for he
couldn’t make Appleby’s by dark.”
“That’s Mike Maloney,” said Brag.
“And he’ll be along here at sundown,
and no sooner, for Mike never made any
place yet before dark.” He chuckled.
“He’s the last of the sundowners, I
guess,” he said. “And the only one of
them yet that ever rode a horse. He’s
out of his time, is Mike.”
Sundowners I knew about. The year
before I’d been working at Bull Grade,
a fairly thickly-settled area, and plenty
of afternoons there was a party of sun-
downers camped in the bush in the gully
quarter-of-a-mile from the homestead
gate.
There they’d stay till sundown, when
all the work would be done, and they
could be sure of having to do little or
nothing for their tucker. They had to
get tucker and a bed. You wouldn’t turn
a man away. Very few did, anyway.
Nobody ever wanted a sundowner to
work, for the work that he would do
would be worth nothing in any case.
This sundowner was different. Sun-
downers didn’t ride horses. There’s a
proverb about it.
Not many sundowners came our way.
It was 14 miles to Appleby’s, and 12
back the other way through the Pass to
the rabbitter’s hut by the Dollypot.
I said “He’s been a hell of a long
time coming up from Mcßride’s” —Mc-
Bride was the rabbitter —and Brag agreed.
“He aims to by-pass Appleby’s,” he
said. ' “To-morrow he’ll make a long
day of it, and stop the night at Currie’s
at Wairiri. He can’t stand Appleby.
“You want to watch him when he calls
in here. He’s cunning like a fox,” he said.
“He’ll never ask a bite for himself —he’ll
spin a tale about the mare, or that dog of
his —did he have the foxy with him?”
“He had a dog with him,” I said.
“That’ll be it then. He’ll come in and
whine —‘A little bit of milk for the dog?’
and hold out his billy. Or ‘you got
some chaff you can spare, and any oats?’
I know him. That’s what he’s got against
Appleby. Appleby turned him down for
a feed for the horse one night. .Mike
came in from the other side, and he
hadn’t had but five miles to come from
Currie’s but he didn’t make Appleby’s
till night. So when Appleby turned him
down, Mike went away quietly enough,
but in the morning Appleby’s sheaf stack
was spread about the paddock. The
thieving old rat had ripped the hell out
of it to get to some of the clean sheaves
in the centre. And then the hack didn’t
eat more than the heads of three-four
sheaves. He was riding the roany pony
stallion then. He’s got a whole string
of horses, one kind and another.”
Sure enough the tea was set, and I
was pumping up the petrol gas-lamp by
the time Mike Maloney came round.
“Is the missus in, or the boss?” he
asked me. His voice was clear and good
but a little hang-dog, a good voice spoilt.
BRAG came from behind the cow-
shed, where he’d been tying up his
dogs. ' .
“Hello, Mike,” he said. “Looking for
a meal?”
The old man stiffened.
“For myself I’d not ask for a thing,
and you know that right well,” he said.
“I was wondering, though, if you had a
lot of chaff, perhaps, that you could spare
a little for the mare. It’s a long way
she’s come, and that on short rations.”
“She’s in pretty good nick,” said Brag,
and that was true enough. But the boss
was already walking down to where the
grey mare’s reins were looped across the
post of the stable-yard gate.


n
\\
t
/
%
m
r
m
w ■■
s»r
I
IBli
'
w V
5-y
k
l- N #1
V \
a
INTRODUCING THE f NEW
POST-WAR CAR TYRE . . .
Dunlop “Super 90” is the
FIRST NEW post-war tyre
to be introduced by any
manufacturer in Australia !
In exacting factory and road
tests it has exceeded all
expectations for long mileage
and all-round performance.
The secret of it’s success lies
in the fact that it is a tyre
of entirely NEW DESIGN
—incorporating these basic
features: High-Profile Casing,
Tread Rubber in Compression
and a New Design Tread.
Its construction is the result
of Dunlop research and
developmental work extend-
ing over the past ten years.
The new DUNLOP “SUPER
90” is a tyre that will give
LONGER LIFE and
GREATER MILEAGE than
any previous car tyre AT
NO EXTRA COST ! Only
limited supplies are available
yet, but more and more of
these wonderful new Dunlop
tyres are being distributed
to Dunlop dealers through-
out Australia. Before long
the new “SUPER 90” will
be readily available to
every motorist.
iks Dukitt 9ndust>uf
AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INC
IN VIC.)
i
“I’d not ask you,” said Mike, from
behind him, “but she’s had a long day
and the feed’s God-awful scarce on the
Long Acre in a season such as this.”
Brag just grunted, and the little dog
roused itself from behind the horse’s
heels and came to meet us, trying to
wag its great long atrocity of a tail.
Brag led the way to the stable, and
old Mike followed, looping the reins
about the crook of his arm. The mare
came along with her head low, as though
she had known the place the whole of her
life. When she was stabled, Mike took
a handful of chaff, and blew it about
his palms, as critical as a Show judge
from the next county,
“It’s many a year since I saw the
ryecorn amongst the oats,” he said ap-
preciatively. “Many a year. It’s a fine
sample, and should carry her. If there
was a handful of oats to go with it, a
king’s nag couldn’t wish for better.”
Brag turned away and went out the
door.
“Show him the oats,” h*e told me over
his shoulder, “before he finds it for
himself.” .
Two steps outside he relented, and
came back.
“There’s a cup of tea at the house,
Mike, and something to go with it if
you are hungry.”
Mike took a peck and a half of the
chaff in a kerosene-tin and topped it with
a couple of quarts of oats. His eyes lit
up when he saw the grain, good South-
land black duns, and he stirred it round
and through the chaff like a baker with
his cake-mixture, while the grey mare
nickered, and tried to crowd him to one
side,
DRAG’S wife Mollie was waiting for
*■—' us at the house and she gave Mike
Maloney a smile and a welcome. ,
“There’s a place for you set, Mike,” she
said, but she seemed to expect it when
he said:
“I’ll have it out here on • the step if
it’s all the same to you, Missus! The
little dog’s well enough, for he jumped a
rabbit today in the scrub by the Six-mile,
but it would warm his belly for the night
if you could spare him just the milk to
fill a saucer.”
Mollie pointed to a dish ready filled
with milk by the door, and stood aside
to let me in.
All through the tea-hour she was look-
ing out the window, to wljere the old man
sat on the step of the wash-house with
his plate. He had his knife and his fork
set carefully beside him, and ate his way
through the stew and the potatoes with
his fingers. He had four plates heaped
high, and each time he finished Mollie
went out to him with the pots again.
“I wonder how many cups of tea he’ll
want,” she said. “Last time it was ten.”
But he stopped at six and pushed his
plate and his mug away, and set the
knife and fork carefully on the platd, as
though he had been using them all the
time, and wiped his fingers on a clump of
cocksfoot that grew by the shed door and
pulled out a black pipe and filled it with
tobacco from a screw of newspaper. The
dog came and curled against his leg.
Afterwards, when I had turned our
own two hacks out, I found him sitting
on the verandah step in my own place,
talking away to Brag and Mollie about
the neighbors as though he had danced
them on his knees.
When I went to the stable in the
morning, the grey mare had been fed.
Mike Maloney was down the road before
I had finished my breakfast, and I didn’t
see him again until May.
MAY was a busy month for us in the
High Country. There was the
May muster, of course, when we brought
the ewes down on the summer blocks
close in, so we could turn the rams out
amongst them where they were not too
scattered.
Besides the muster, May gave us a
chance to get at the deer. It was the rut,
and the stags were coming out of the
summer wallows in the valleys to team
up with the hinds. They were easy in
the wallows, and they were still easier
with the hinds and all our spare time
we were out with the rifles.
It was a hard time for the horses and
dogs, too. We mustered on foot —we
had to in that country —but we used
horses to get to the top of the block
each morning. Then we stripped the
' bridles off them and left them to find
their own way back.
The dogs were booted over most
blocks, and we each had a double team,
so they were spelled nearly every second
day, but they felt the work. Half the
time we worked them right out of sight,
and they had to be good.
To get the sheep moving at the crack
of dawn we had to leave the homestead
soon after midnight, and as we didn’t
catch up with the horses as a rule till
mid-afternoon, we had our fill of it, from
day to day. Mollie would get us our tea
when we came in, and then we’d drop
straight into bed.
(Continued on page 32.)


BLOTCHY 1
elltP , SKIN
X marr sd by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cnticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio-Cuticura
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder.... 533
What a Trustee should know
A Trustee must have special qualifications if he is to
administer an Estate to the best advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties and be con-
versant with the law pertaining to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and realisation
of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
&
—have security in excess of the value of your Estate so
as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available at all
times until the completion of the Trust;
and, above all, he must have time to devote to his duties.
If you desire your wife, son, or a friend to be a Trustee,
why not appoint one of them to act in conjunction with
the Company? Your Estate will then be assured of absolute
security and safety, combined with expert administration.
Write for Booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS; 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
————— PT.4A.6
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
P. W. Hixson
F. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
■T. R. Faviell
N. L. Shaw (Mgr.)
C. N. P. Whittle
(Asst. Mgr.)
LOOK!
Beehive Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters
Builders
Cabinetmakers
The "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
echanical parts, in-
arning lathe outfit.
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
liin. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit, does
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free ell States.
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
Immediate
Delivery.
blades.
eluding saw and planer
des. £l7/10/-. Also
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ABUSIVE ARTICLE ON TRUMAN.
On September 25 U.S. Ambassador to
Moscow Walter Bedell Smith strongly
protested to the Soviet against an article
by Boris Gorbatov in the Russian press
criticising President Truman. The Am-
bassador wrote;
I cannot recall that Dr. Goebbels, of un-
savory memory, at the height of our common
struggle against Nazi Germany, ever stooped
to greater ridicule and vituperation against the
head of an enemy country than has Mr. Gor-
batov against the chief executive of a friendly
and Allied State.
This 1 was described by N.Y. “Times”
Washington correspondent Arthur Krock
as “leading with the chin.”
Molotov having replied that “the Soviet
Government cannot bear the responsi-
bility for this or that article” and there-
fore could not accept the protest, the
U.S. State Department on September 25
released the following evidently literal
translation of the offending article:
A man who loves bow ties, wears his pants
two inches shorter than ordinary, and who
has no other external marks of distinction
arrived in Rio de Janeiro on Sept. 1 of this
year. He had a colorless Baptist face that
causes so much trouble to retouchers of Life,
and it was known that he is most average of
all Americans and most provincial of all
Missourians.
If it were general custom to greet a person
according to his real personality and worth,
nobody in Rio de Janeiro would have noticed
the arrival of this person. But, by strange
play of fate, this small man was President of
toe United States, and inhabitants of Rio were
beside themselves with joy.
Orchestras thundered, rain of flowers and
snowstorm of ticker tape fell on pavement. All
THE MAKING OF A WARMONGER.
Minneapolis “Tribune."
buildings of city were decorated with huge
portraits of Truman, President of U.S.A., and
of Dutra, President of Brazil. Presidents stood
side by side, both smiled, and this was especi-
ally touching when one remembered Truman
not long ago loved to call himself modest pupil
of the great Roosevelt and that Dutra was
with Cross by Hitler and with one
of Mussolmi s Orders.
On Sept. 2 President Dutra introduced Presi-
dent Truman to Inter-American Conference,
and Truman, in his own slightly nasal and
squeaky village preacher s voice, next read his
s P eec h which had been written for him, as
always, by Clark Clifford. Harry Truman ex-
plained his course.
He stated post-war world does not please
him. He is dissatisfied with Europe. If Greece
still consoles him, new democracies definitely
up|et him He made some attacks against
U.S.S.R. Not naming it, however. And just
Churchill started to rattle the sabre:
U.S., said he, are fully determined to
remain powerful in military way.
But who is this n.ew apostle of imperialism?
Americans love to state that in their demo-
cratic country everyone can become President,
Eor this it is not necessary to have title or
dollars. It is sufficient to have talent lor State
altairs -
What were talents which helped Harry Truman
to become President? What traits of genius
distinguished this little, old-fashioned Mis-
sourian? What was it that set him off from
millions of his fellow-countrymen and took
him to White House?
Harry Truman was born in 1884 in a farming
family. At school he was undistinguished by
special abilities but was especially docile and
applied himself well. His behavior was exem-
plary He was a serious kid in spectacles, not
Jp° m a„ S d a To r ri„t S, Ha ß viriiS.d W lec b S“
school he wanted to go on to military school
at West Point, but his eyesight was too weak,
From childhood he played the piano well
enough but did not become a musician —he
hadn’t sufficient talent or imagination. Accord-
ingly, he became clerk in bank, and on receiving
his $25 week was quite content with his fate.
“This was happiest time of my life,” he admits.
He did not dream of anything greater! In
April, 1917, Truman was called up. He did
not exhibit any marvels of courage in war but
was an accurate and efficient battery captain.
After demobilisation he returned home, got
married, and opened a haberdashery shop in
Kansas City. Haberdashery turned out to be
too grandiose an undertaking for him. He
was ruined and lost all his own money and
that of other people. However, in course of
13 years he did pay off his debts.
After going bankrupt in trade, he decided to
try his luck in politics. They say that in 1922
he was a member of Ku Klux Klan. Truman
categorically denies this today. It is known
on trustworthy authority that he was a Mason.
Also remained a Democrat.
“Boss” or master of the Democratic party
in Kansas City was Tom Pendergast. What-
ever one may say, he was colorful figure. He
“fixed” elections. He ruled electoral machine
of his party, “most corrupt of all corrupt
machines in history,” and knew how to make
even ghosts vote. People who had died long
ago and some who had never even been born
on the earth were counted in his lists of elec-
tors and “voted” as Tom saw fit.
Victory of his party at election meant each
time a change in whole State apparatus, from
the Governor to head of a post-office. All
these posts were in hands of Tom. He traded
in them. He made Governors, Senators, Judges.
He also made Truman.
Without Tom Pendergast, Truman would
never have been able to rise from ranks. Tom
Pendergast gave him small job t<J start with —
appointed him road inspector, at $5 a day.
After a shower Truman operated street-cleaning
machines. Next Tom “elected” him as Judge
in Jackson County.
He remained in this post eight years and then
“asked” Pendergast to promote him to better
job from material viewpoint. Truman had in
mind job of tax collector. But Tom Pendergast
was a fellow full of humor. He decided to
make Truman...a Senator,
At time he said: “I want to demonstrate
how well-greased machine can get even errand
boy into the Senate.” Tom’s machine was
well greased. At election of 1934 in three
districts controlled by Pendergast, Truman re-
ceived 40,812 votes. These votes gave him
victory. Errand boy got into Senate. From
this time on everybody in America began to
call Harry Truman “Pendergast’s errand boy.”
it was only after 10 years that whole history
of this “election” was known. Investigation
disclosed that in districts where Truman re-
ceived 40,000 votes, only 25,000 had right to
vote. The 15,000 Were “ghosts” of Tom Pender-
gast. But Tom Pendergast was already in grave
and Truman in White House,
After he got into Senate, Truman blindly
followed Pendergast’s orders. He kept his
mou th shut and distinguished himself in Senate
only by one thing—silence. For three years
nobody heard his voice. He broke silence only
to defend Pendergast. Boss had got into
trouble. His operations had become open
scandal. He went to jail. Harry Truman did
everything he could for his boss.
At 1942 election “the messenger boy” didn’t
have a boss any more. Defeat threatened him.
Ghosts couldn’t vote for him any more. He
began to feel small and helpless. Mournfully
looking around he tried to find boss for himself,
and—found him. It was Robert Hannegan,
son of Missouri policeman. He had bad repu-
tation. He was called “the most discredited
boss of most discredited political machine.”
Gorbatov describes Truman’s associa-
.. ° r ~V ucsenoes irumans associa
tions with Hannegan, ending with the
selection at the Democratic party con-
vention in 1944 of Truman as Roosevelt’s
election team-mate, party
preferences having there been split be-
tween Wallace and Byrnes:
„ ,
14 was necessary to find compromise figure,
or even better, colorless one, Hannegan re-
membered the “messenger boy” and proposed
him.
Harry Truman turned out to be suitable
figure—but he had no stature. He was typical
“child of compromise.” He was even born
on borderline State of Missouri on border
between North and South. After election Harry
Truman immediately telephoned his old mother.
“Be a good boy, Harry,” said his mother.
And he tried to be “a good boy.” He “swam
with the current.”
But on April 12, 1945, suddenly, “in harness”
as Americans say, President Roosevelt died,
and automatically Harry Truman, small Judge
from Jackson, became President. He stood in
reception room of White House next to his
large wife and daughter, depressed and lost
and whole world looked at him with curiosity
and expectation. What will he do? Where
will he lead the ship?
Gorbatov quotes various predictions
on Truman’s likely course:
In Wall-street all these statements and pre-
dictions raised a laugh. They knew what
course Truman would take: namely, that which
they are now dictating to him.
First days in White House were honeymoon
for Truman. America showed him greatest
indulgence. People said it was not his fault
that circumstances made him President. Every-
body knew that he was not genius. And
nothing was expected from him.
His hypocritical speeches impressed pious
Americans. They liked his humble appearance
and every haberdasher, in closing his shop, had
pleasure of thinking that maybe if only he had
time he himself could become President —
obviously he was no worse than this haberdasher
in White House, for at least he himself hadn’t
gone bankrupt! But head of the messenger
boy was turned and he began to make mis-
takes.
He had kept his mouth shut too long. Now
he felt urge to talk at press conferences—this
seemed imprudent. He surrounded himself
with evil characters from Missouri —this wasn’t
liked. Quickly and uncomplainingly he sub-
ordinated himself to Byrnes, Vandenberg, had
pleasant meetings with Hoover—this alarmed
Democrats. During the conference in Potsdam
he, pupil-like, looked to Byrnes—this seemed
laughable.
Suddenly he dropped everything and went
travelling in U.S.A. At this point he com-
pletely satisfied his passion for photography.
Reporters wrote how many friends President
visited, how much he lost in poker, how fish
were biting—this seemed .completely irrelevant.
Honeymoon ended. Public indulgence was
exhausted. Fog dispersed—the President was
naked and funny.
“Truman has been hissed more times prob-
ably than any other American President during
w “°i e history of country’ states biographer
or Truman. Tn Coffin, correspondent of New
York newspapers, prints a statement of Long
Island Railway worker: Truman couldn’t be
elected here even as lavatory attendant.”
Billy Rose exclaims: “If comic is needed in
White House, let him at least be talented one.”
Whitney speaks of him: “You can’t weave
silk purse from sow’s ear, just as it is impos-
S ffi t 0 a President out of an ordinary
° w °rker. .
that during November
Congress elections, Democratic party proposed
that Truman not speak for candidates of party
so as to avoid making their situation worse.
The monarch was absolutely naked. And sud-
denly somebody’s powerful hand supported him.
He was still needed, it seems. He is so con-
venient, so obedient and tractable! Only he
shouldn’t be allowed to act according to his
the" better—that San*? he can te JSfied 1“
directly. So small Missourian found his big
t- 1 , T ,, ~ , , tt
1 p ‘ s K eet ,’
r an is what they need a President who is
in every way convenient. He is colorless. So
1C ftnv C l rninr la a f 6 Ttw t
painted any color. And forces of reaction
quickly furnished him his color black.
He is not a fighter, like Roosevelt, nor an
Tfv Th thi R ker - Jo much the better,
y^ de fnH r^f B rwt’ rrff eS ’ri Ho ° ver man '
’ a J? d et , f' ark 9, 1 °y° ung man
a } aga J dceat h ead of blond hair and eyes
l it U Sta V wnt ®, bl ? speeches,, for him.
Tk.c H marl S n y read . thei ? to erab , y , we ;
America toperSm
On March 12, 1947, he addressed Congress
wfih message on aid to Greece and Turkey,
Vandenberg immediately called this programme
national policy of utmost importance,” “new
American imperialism showed its teeth.
War brought on unheard-of profits to Ameri-
can businessmen, but it did not satisfy their
appetites. It only teased them. Only with
this, war brought certain limitations and re-
strictions and obligations. Roosevelt was then
President of United States of America. Wall-
street impatiently wished to throw off imme-
diately every kind of restriction, to refuse every
obligation. Truman obediently began to carry
out will of Wall-street.
On entering White House he solemnly swore
to be true to course of Roosevelt. He broke
decisively with it. He promised to retain
Cabinet of Roosevelt inviolate. He dispersed
it. Fundamental policy of Roosevelt was peace
after war. Truman became inciter of new war.
Churchill could not conquer a live Roosevelt,
but instead he “conquered Truman.”
One hundred and twenty-four years ago Presi-
dent of United States James Monroe pro-
claimed: “America for Americans.” At that
time meaning of this Doctrine was: “Protect
America from European invasions.”
Now Wall-street, from lips of Truman, is
proclaiming new doctrine: “Not only America,
but whole world for Americans.” This is pro-
gramme for invading the world.
Jaws of Wall-street have opened greedily.
For first time in history of United States of
America military men appeared in droves on
political scene. The dollar juit on a uniform.
Government apparatus began to be militarised.
Generals became diplomats. General Marshall
became Secretary of State of United States of
America. General MacArthur rules Japan.
General Wedemeyer went to Chind “to bring
about order.” General Clay is boss in Western
Europe.
Accusing the U.S. of having, under
Truman, begun “to interfere furiously in
European affairs,” Gorbatov proceeds:
Already Harry Truman and Pope Pius XII
are exchanging messages. The head of the
Catholics blesses the Baptist Truman on new
crusade.
But crusade against peace always begins with
crusade against Soviet people. Aggression is in-
compatible with democracy. Robbery is in-
compatible with rights of man.
Spurred on by his bosses, Truman is be-
ginning this crusade too. Crusade against
American people. Against American democracy.
Against trade-unions. Against most elementary
rights of an American. Never before in United
States of America was there such feverish “red
baiting.” Never before was black terror so
openly insolent in United States.
Everything progressive is declared outside
law: Everything honest and brave is exiled or
put in prison. The haberdasher from Jackson
vies for the laurels of the little corporal from
Munich,
This crusade of his Harry Truman called
“crusade against world Communism.” Not
new slogan. Krupps and Shroedere began this
new way, too, putting demoniac Hitler in fore-
ground. Mitsui and Mitsubishi began this way,
spurring on stupid Hirohito. Now Morgans and
Rockefellers are beginning this way, putting
’out ahead the “errand boy.” Humanity knows
how such crusades generally end.
At present Harry Truman continues diligently
to serve his boss. In some respects he has
learned wisdom. He no longer says, as for-
merl that he neyer takes litjca j ’ dec isions
mnc „u; nft
* I, H klaows now
1 v om to consu t
Gorbatov lists Truman Administration
members—Harriman, Forrestal, etc.—as
„„ \ i
Wail-Street representatives, and con-
eludes:
Undef'jSnt GovtiSSSt Waif
i reaffy S rSe As‘
Wall-street’s commissioner, Harry Truman
travels around the country, asks price of Braz-
Hi an oil and delivers speeches. In his speeches
formerly there was much lean-faced hypocrisy,
but now there * s ever more and more of
malicious, growl. In his squeaky voied already
j s heard sound of military wheels.
t> nt etremm. tt,;™ u to
thft breathes from fhese speeches. It is
power which dictates these threatening words,
but fear. Fear before the coming day. Fear
before menacing approach of a crisis. Fear
before his own people, before democracy, be-
fore peoples of the world who have conquered
d ° ”°‘ WiSh AmCricaD
Fear'and malice, these are sounds in Truman’s
speeches. Fear in spite of atom bomb. Lack
of strength despite dollars. No one can avert
unavoidable. No one can halt tomorrow’s


Hi
m
' V'-. ■
wms
IH
Mi
i ■■■ ■
? !“ mm
m
m
SIDNEY
8“ ■ ,: >
A\!
m
I&LE WA 1
i*i
GIVE YOUR DRINK A SPARKLE
*.. The serving of
Schweppes Table
Waters exclusively
is a sure sign of
the standing of any
hotel or restaurant-
fore
e*
DRY
GINGER ALE
sun. Even masters of the errand boy are
powerless here. . . . . . . , -
Perhaps clearest expression of historical in-
eptitude of American imperialism is precisely
the figure of the man whom Wall-street has
hailed as its apostle, the figure of Harry Truman,
the small man in the short pants.
PALESTINE MOVES.
When Mr. Creech Jones told the House
of Commons that, failing a U.N.O. settle-
ment of the thorny Palestine problem,
Britain would be getting out anyway, a
London “Times” correspondent reported
some Jews in Palestine as expressing
doubt that there would be any drastic
withdrawal; they saw inconclusive
phrases in the Minister’s speech which
would allow Britain to stay. Hence their
disappointment at General Sir Alan
Cunningham’s forthright statement that
the decision to withdraw was no bluff,
with the grim addendum: “Misery,
economic loss, chaos and possibly blood-
shed will follow Britain’s withdrawal.”
The “Times” Jerusalem correspondent
further reported that, with the announced
British withdrawal, many Palestine Jews
have realised that “the prospect of a
Jewish Stat£ materialising is again
dimmed”;
They declare that the power of veto has been
placed in Arab hands. They are also out oi
countenance because, having written so often
that British policy was one of Machiavellian
delay to maintain her hold on Palestine, they
find they have had the boot on the wrong foot.
Moderate Jews may now be regretting the
rancor directed so persistently against Britain,
and in their chagrin are inclined to pour scorn
on Britain for “quitting.”
Zionist feeling in Britain, as expressed
in a severally-signed letter in the “Times,”
was that Britain should, if necessary
alone, impose the partition of Palestine
on the Arabs by force. This brought a
crushing, and informative, answer from
Major-Gen. Sir Edward Spears, expert in
affairs of the Near and Middle East:
If an attempt to impose these proposals is
made the Arabs of Palestine will revolt and
will be supported by every Arab State. Any
Arab Government that did not take the strongest
line would be swept away by popular fury.
None know this better than the Zionists. They
and their sympathisers will therefore use every
argument to prevail on some Power or Powers
to stand between them and the anger of the
Muslim world.
If other nations are prepared to risk lives
and treasure for the sake of denying the sacred
right of a people to their own land, let it not
be the British, who expended their last penny
and bled themselves white in defence of the
very rights the Arabs are prepared to die for
today.
To advocate that Britain should impose the
U.N. Committee’s partition scheme so as to
avoid our final eclipse in the Middle East is
a bitter mockery, for were she to do so she
would infallibly incur the implacable hatred
not only of the Muslims of the Middle East
but of scores of millions of their co-religionists
the world over. To suggest [he refers to the
Zionists’ letter] that to risk the lives of British
soldiers in such a cause would result in their
feeling that the purgatory they have endured
in Palestine was not a vain sacrifice if it resulted
in the establishment of a Jewish State is well
calculated to outrage the feelings of our already
overtried troops.
Another British soldier, on leave from
Palestine, wrote in the same issue of
the “Times”:
“Imposing” and “enforcement” of partition
will be no exaggeration. If we remain to
impose and enforce alone, it is inevitable that
the two rival peoples will come to forget that
we are only carrying out instructions from the
United Nations. For it will still be the luckless
British soldier who has to impose the curfew
and search the villages for terrorists. If Palestine
is to be partitioned by the United Nations,
then they must take the responsibility for its
imposition.
One thing must be said in favor of
U.N.0.: its current hearing of the dis-
pute has forced full publicity for the
Arab case and the determined Arab stand,
especially important in the U.S., where
there had hitherto been little heard of
it and where, partly in consequence, the
hate-abuse of Britain by the Ben Hechts
has had more effect than it otherwise
might have had. A model of the finest
journalism in such respects, N.Y. “Times”
gave almost two pages to the Arab delega-
tion statement to U.N.0., the core of
which was:
We have one glaring, all-embracing fact:
That we are there and have always been there
in actual possession of our own country, and
we have one binding, lawful and sacred duty:
To defend it against all aggression. We ask
for no favors and we desire nothing that is
not ours by birthright.
The Zionists are conducting an aggressive
campaign, in fact, an invasion. For no matter
with what apparel it is clothed—- religious,
humanitarian, or political—the Zionist move-
ment for the possession of Palestine is nothing
but an invasion that aims, by force, at securing
and dominating a country that is not theirs
by birthright. . „ . .
On one side, therefore, there is self-defence;
on the other side, an aggression. The raison
d’etre of the United Nations is to assist sen-
defence against aggression.
This is the case before you in a nutshell.
The Arabs of Palestine are solidly determined
to oppose, with all the means at their disposal,
any scheme that provides for _ the dissection,
segregation or partition of their tiny country
or that gives to a minority, on the ground of
creed, special and preferential rights or status.
They will oppose such schemes, in the same
zeal and with the same sacrifice that any other
people would do under the same circumstances.
We are alive to the fact that, if they so
desire, big Powers could crush, _by brute force,
such opposition. But this realisation will not
deter us from drenching the soil of our beloved
country with the last drop of our blood in the
lawful defence of all and every inch of it.
In putting the Zionist stand to U.N.0.,
Rabbi Silver discounted the Arab threats
of force as “exaggerated,” That holds
also for accounts in cables of vast “Arab
armies” massing on the borders. In fact,
reports on Palestine just now need to be
taken very cautiously. Instance, after
days of scare stories about Arab armies
massing, the report last week of a corres-
pondent who flew hundreds of miles
along the borders without seeing a solitary
sign of military movement.
Dr. Silver also said the Zionists would
accept partition because thereby they
would get a national State, although
he regretted the exclusion of Jerusalem
from it, and described it as entailing “a
very heavy sacrifice on the part of the
Jewish people.” He added; “The Jewish
people in Palestine is prepared to defend
itself. It is not impressed by idle threats.”
America’s U.N.O. delegate accepted the
partition proposal in terms not quite as
precise as they might have been, though
suggesting certain geographical modifica-
tions, most important among them the in-
clusion of Jaffa in the Arab State, which
"Verdens Gang,” Oslo.
“Well, boys, Monroe wanted to prevent Europeans from interfering with Ameri-
can affairs. We’ve got to prevent them from interfering with European affairs."
had previously been strongly urged by
a Middle East expert writing in London
“Times.” The U.S. delegate stated:
“Certain elements have resorted to force
and terror to obtain their particular aims.
Obviously this violence must cease if
independence is to be more than an
empty phrase in the Holy Land.’ It
would have been more honest to name
the “certain elements,” with the rider
that they could not have done much with-
out American financial and other backing.
Also, after the past American official
and unofficial record in Palestine inter-
ference while lives of British lads were
at stake, it came as a rather sorry anti-
climax to hear that “both the U.S. Army
and Congress are strongly opposed to the
use of regular U.S. troops” for the par-
tition-enforcement job, and that President
Truman —who, in past pre-election vote-
bidding came out for the instant admis-
sion into Palestine of 100,000 Jews,
despite the desperate appeal of Mr. Bevin,
at the time on the verge of what he had
hopes would be an Arab-Jewish agree-
ment —had told the United States U.N.O.
delegate “not to make any commitment
that could obligate the United States to
use Government troops to carry out any
settlement of the Palestine problem.”
Whatever U.N.O. may decide, all the
signs point to grim days ahead in the
Holy Land, with, in American politics, a
football most inconveniently turned into
a nasty porcupine. Meanwhile, British
sergeants may walk safer in Palestine.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
[7.5. Gifts. —Odd items to try to fit together:
rn “Christian Science Monitor” reports that
“Outright gifts from America to prostrate
peoples in Europe, Asia and Africa now amount
to $7,215,000,000. Of this, individuals and
institutions gave $1,500,000,000 worth in parcels
and money.” (2) N.Y. “Journal-American _
correspondent George Rothwell Brown reports.
“Perhaps the most remarkable phenomenon in
Europe today is the dislike of the United States.
Americans as individuals may have and ot
course do have very pleasant friendships in
Europe, but Americans abroad are not popular.
* * * *
Candid Comment on U.N.O. Chicago
“Tribune” opposes the grandiose plans for
U.N.O.’s home on 17 acres of Manhattan:
“We shall hear the argument that, if U.N.
were packed off to Geneva? it would be in-
fected with the futility and failure of the old
League, but the contention is not valid. U.N.
is not looking for a place to live, but a place
to croak. Its record on almost every issue
involving peace and justice has consisted of
flight from duty into the realms of chicanery,
fraud and deceit. It is already moribund and
doesn’t need 85 million dollars’ worth of mortu-
ary granite to mark its uneasy resting place.”
Okinawa. —In the final settlement it looks a
certainty that U.S. will hold on to Okinawa.
Miles W. Vaughn, a leading U.S. United Press
representative in Asia, Quotes a high American
officer”: “The United States suffered some
35 000 casualties, including an estimated 15,000
dead for all branches of the armed services,
in conquering the Okinawa area. I can’t
imagine we would be silly enough to relinquish
it.” As one of the greatest battlefields in U.S.
history Okinawa thus has a strong appeal to
senffinL As well, it has strategic value
second to none. Planes based on « could
dominate the whole East Asian area from the
Vladivostok-Habarovsk region in the north to
the Singapore-Batavia line in the south.
jjj *
Stronger Germany. Chicago “Tribune
makes no bones about the strengthening of
Germany • “Without Germany, Russia cannot
be “opjed in Europe. . When Hitler began to
treacherous forays against his neighbors there
were two supposedly strong Powers opposed
to him, France and Great Britain, and even the
smaller’ Nations had strength. The supposition
proved to be a bad one. Now there is nothing
but an eggshell defence against Soviet rulers
who see the golden opportunity for world con-
quest. They imagine themselves, not without
good cause, to be on the threshold of a Marxist
dream of supremacy.” #
Controls for Control's Sake.— From a memor-
andum prepared by the British Federation of
Industries: “It is in our view more than ever
necessary that the Government should recognise
the feeling in industry that controls are imposed
for control’s sake. They must dissipate that
feeling, and must prove that xn fact controls
are subject to constant review. The country
can no longer afford to retain a single un-
necessary man in a control office who can be
released for more productive work, nor can
industry effectively operate under the delays
inseparable from controls... .We put forwar
the general proposition that control can itselt
cause or accentuate shortage and we would
expect marginal shortages frequently to clis-
appear within a few weeks under the stimulus
of a free market and the operation of the price
mechanism. We therefore urge that as soon
as shortage is merely marginal, control should
g°” *
* * * *
Desperation in Greece. —How bad are the
conditions in Greece, which the U.S. is trying
to correct and Russia trying to profit by, are
sufficiently indicated by a few sentences from
a N.Y. “Times Magazine” article by Dana
Adams Schmidt: “Really desperate misery
begins outside Athens, in the dusty villages
among the seared hills of Epirus, Macedonia
and Thrace. After seven years of fighting
Greece is a land of 100,000 orphans, of 180,000
uprooted peasants, of 1700 burned villages. The
bone growth of children has been so retarded
by lack of food that a recent group of visiting
American Congressmen underestimated chil-
dren’s ages by two to four years. In many
villages of Epirus 25 per cent, of the children
have tuberculosis.”
«. * * *
Glasshouse Stone - throwers. When issues
which South Africa insists are purely its own
domestic concern were last before U.N.0., in-
eluding that of discrimination against Indians,
the U.S. lined up with those supporting U.N.O.
interference. In advance of further U.N.O.
moves on South Africa, an article by a N.Y.
“Times” Washington correspondent suggests
that South Africa might as reasonably support
the reported U.N.O. action by a negro group
on grounds of discrimination in the U.S. Stating
that Washington often draws the color line, the
correspondent says that “separation of the races
[white and negro] runs all the way from com-
plete segregation, as in the commercial theatres
(in the movies no less than in the only legiti-
mate house)” to the free mixing in street cars
and buses. “In general, public places of lodging,
dining and entertainment, including the hotels,
restaurants and theatres, are open either to
white patrons or to negroes, but not to both.
The churches, by tradition, draw congregations
along color lines, while the public schools pro-
vide the only instance in the District of Colum-
bia of segregation by statute.”
* * * •
Liars by Policy. —Asking, with reference to
the Gromyko-Vishinsky performances in U.N.0.,
“Why lie when everyone knows you are a
liar?” Scripps-Howard writer Ludwell Denny
concludes: “Even dictators, or especially dic-
tators* must justify their policies to the people
in the long run. And the Soviet’s war-breeding
policies today require a great deal of justifying.
The dominant desire of the people in Russia
and the satellite States now is for peace, peace
at almost any price. The growing conflict be-
tween the Kremlin and the democracies is too
big even for totalitarian ‘thought control
agencies to cover up. The people are appre-
hensive. Stalin at all cost must persuade them
that this threat to peace comes from the West
instead of from the Kremlin.” A further
thought is that “a Government preparing for
peace does not deliberately day by day propa-
gandise its people with hatred and fear ’ ol
the other side, which “is what the Kremlin is
doing*”
* * * *
Neville Chamberlain. Quoting R. H. S.
Crossy.an, British Labor M.P., who, in re-
viewing Professor Failing's biography of the
former Prime Minister, added his own high
praise of Chamberlain as “a man of first-class
intellectual capacity,” a N.Y. “Times” letter-
writer says: “Today I hear from those who
know far more than I that had the war come
in 1938 Hitler would haye won it. Was not
Chamberlain successful in bringing about a
degree of rearmament despite the Socialists and
others who opposed it? To whom belonged
the clearer vision then? Chamberlain in power
and at every stage of his life had friends,
and in history he will continue to have them.’
« * * »
German Trials. —As good as forgotten by the
world, the war-crimes trials are still going on
in Germany, with German Jury Courts set up
to operate on the Nuremberg ruling that be-
longing to Organisations constituted criminality.
British visitors to Germany have returned to
express considerable uneasiness oyer these trials;
as a typical example, Nigel Birch, M.P., m
London “Times”: “The most unfortunate case
is that of young members of the Waffen S.S.
who fought throughout the war as ordinary
soldiers. All with the rank of sergeant or
above have been imprisoned without trial since
the end of the war. Some of these men were
nine years old when Hitler seized power, and
joined the Waffen S.S. at the age of 17 during
the war because it was in German eyes a
corps d’elite. It is difficult to believe that
they could have retired from the Waffen S.S.
during the war and lived. If found guilty
however small the punishment, and it is often
only a small fine —a man is under German
Law Vorbestraft, that is to say, he has a
criminal record against him Tor the rest of his
life. If he- is acquitted he is probably dis-
charged as a category 3 man, which means that
he cannot vote, must register with the police,
can get only unskilled work and has his property
blocked. To imprison a man for a long period
without trial, to punish him under a retro-
spective decree, and to discharge him. under
conditions which leave him no hope but the
overthrow of the regime cannot be right or
wise. And it is not much consolation that we
have succeeded in fathering the system on to
ffie Germans.”


w*\
fIUBXHfILMEMr
(rJfihdff a,
1847
■rfifn
* « YS - yM
'/ wi lui ams y/ly/i
%
a
w/T/rnm^
\\
V
~tA
y
///.
' n n /,,
1111,5
HERE GOMES A NEW HOME!
m
ft (VftOV
Timber for homes is the byword today. Speed is vital but timbergetters must cut and haul logs without
destroying young growth, without jeopardising the future production of our forests.
Tractors haul bigger loads greater distances without injury to seedlings. With their power-operated tow
lines they recover valuable timber from otherwise inaccessible areas. It is tractor power, too, which cuts the
logging path from woods to mill.
Tractor power enables the development of economical opencut mining methods to win precious coal and
metals from the earth.
On the farm, record-breaking crops of urgently-needed food are produced with the aid of tractor power.
These accomplishments point the way to an ever-increasing use of this mobile'power as an effective instrument
in the development of a more abundant life for all the peoples of the world.
As manufacturers of machinery since 1847 and one of the world’s leading makers of tractors, Allis-Chalmers
are proudly participating in such an inspiring endeavour.
c
0
□
• AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS
• ROAD BUILDING MACHINERY
• INDUSTRIAL TRACTORS
industrial Distributors for New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia:
TUTT-BRYANT PTY. LTD. Tasmania: A. G. WEBSTER & SONS LTD., Hobart and
Launceston. Western Australia: WESTRALIAN TUTT-BRYANT PTY. LTD., Perth.
Agricultural Distributors for Western Australia: WESTRALIAN FARMERS’ CO-
OPERATIVE LTD. South Australia: JOHN SHEARER & SONS PTY. LTD. Victoria:
MITCHELL & CO. PTY. LTD. N.S.W.: MITCHELL SHEARER FARM MACHINERY
PTY. LTD. Queensland: ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. (AUST.) LTD. Tasmania;
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS LTD.
11/107FP


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3532
Wednesday, October 22, 1947
FUEL FOR THE SOCIALISED SHIP OF STATE.
“Pile it on, Ben, and we’ll take her to Moscow.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
REVOLT IN THE BUSH.
“A house divided against itself cannot
stand,” said Lincoln, nobly adapting
Scripture to a national emergency ; and
it took a terrible struggle between men
who “spoke the same tongue and prayed
to the same'God” to ensure the perman-
ency of the structure. From the effects
of that war, though memories of it are
no longer bitter, some of the beaten
States have never recovered.
Lincoln’s warning should be always in
the minds of men who rule, in their
fashion, a.people so like the Americans of
his time, ‘and who are unworthy heirs
of a system of government modelled to
a large extent on that of the Union he
preserved. And the present state of the
world should sharpen the warning for
them, as it does for others.
In Indonesia, and over a great part of
Asia, from Palestine to China, human
conflict rages. In the only part of. the
Balkans where the British Common-
wealth has real friends, Greeks, assisted
by Communist brigands from three con-
tiguous countries whose “Governments”
are in the pay of Moscow, are fighting
Greeks. The recovery of France, in the
past so resilient even after lost wars, has
not only been halted by internal strife
but may be blasted by civil war; and it
is the same with Italy. All worthy
people in those Communist-threatened
countries would give their ears for the
priceless blessing of unity. Except for
criminal Moscow minorities, now on the
run, Canada has this blessing ahd so has
the U.S.A., and the material fruits of it
they are sharing generously with dis-
tressed members of the human family in
the two stricken continents. Australia
could have it, and it is Australia’s
greatest need.
But in contempt of everything but the
gratification of its grudges, of its envy,
hate and greed of power, the party in
control, egged on by the Moscow party
—which, having no Truman or King Ad-
ministration to deal with, only a crowd
half inclined to it, half scared of it, is
more arrogant than ever —is throwing
the blessing away.
This, of course, is nothing new with
“Labor.” To divide the nation is as much
a part of “Labor’s” philosophy and prac-
tice as is the division of wealth wrung
from the of other men’s faces
among “Labor’s” clients and supporters.
“Labor” affects the poisonous belief that
there are two nations in Australia, the
rich and the poor. “Labor” would seem
to have a “two-of-everything” complex.
During the war against Japan “Labor”
virtually maintained two armies, with
separate staffs, headquarters and the rest.
This partly explains why that war, admir-
ably fought as it was by the comparatively
small number of men actually engaged,
and admirably as these men were ser-
viced, cost twice as much as it need have
done, and partly explains also why there
was a desertion rate which staggered
Old Diggers acquainted with the imper-
fectly concealed facts. It didn’t stagger
“Labor,” nor did “Labor” ever brand
the deserter from forces enlisted or con-
scripted—with a “Labor” string to the
conscription measure which prevented
even willing conscripts from being em-
ployed in the rescue of nearly all the
Australians in the enemy’s horror-
camps—to save his country and his
womenfolk from Asiatic pollution as
the lowest thing at large. To “Labor” he
was merely a naughty boy, not a de-
serter but an absentee without leave ; and
there is a standing invitation to all* the
naughty boys, issued by “Labor’s”
Minister of Forceps, to call and collect
their deferred pay.
In 1944 “Labor” turned from its “war
effort” to play politics. It divided the
nation on the powers referendum, which
events have made ridiculous ; the powers
it alleged to be disappearing it still
possesses. A characteristic diversion, for
“Labor’s” natural tendency is to be in-
visible in war, though it claims to be
invincible in peace.
Now, when unity is equally essential,
when without it the weaknesses which the
war revealed cannot be remedied, the new
and grave problems it brought cannot be
solved, the great tasks it rendered neces-
sary cannot be accomplished, “Labor” is
dividing the nation once more. Dividing
it on an issue which its leader, his associ-
ates and followers never once mentioned
in their election speeches.
This time “Labor” cannot whine to the
Americans for succor “without any in-
hibitions.” Whether it goes forward
blindly on its wild way or beats an
ignominious retreat it must save itself by
its own devices —if it can. Concerned
only with victory in “the class war,” it
has blundered into another war in which
no temporary possession and abuse of
Parliamentary power can prevail.
Country people everywhere interpret the
threat to the existence of the trading
banks, implying, as it does, the removal
of rights which have been theirs since the
beginnings of settlement in their districts,
political control of their balances and
overdrafts and the permanent loss of a
valuable element of country-town popula-
tions —good citizens all, their careers now
darkened —as a challenge from City to
Country. And everywhere they accept
the challenge.
In its composition, as well as in its sins
of commission and omission, the “Labor”
Caucus has ceased to be a representative
Australian body. Nearly all its members
come from cities, and most of the others
are from the coastal fringe. Trade-union
secretaries, organisers and the like pre-
dominate, there being also four lawyers,
three or four promoted civil servants, a
couple of journalists, a clerk or two, a
doctor, a dentist, a retired publican and
a former draper—all city chaps. In the
whole band there are at most four men
who can boast a direct association with
any of the splendid inland industriesi
which produce most of the wealth that
keeps the nation solvent, and without
which the cities would starve. Nor, of
course, is there anyone who can speak
for the great manufacturing interest, the
great mining interest, the great iron and
steel industries; indeed anyone who
ever praises 8.H.P., which the Ameri-
cans admired so much and still extol in
representative publications like the “Satur-
day Evening Post” —they smiled at our
Government trains and railways. “Labor”
mention of B.H.P. is usually made in
opprobrious terms, ending with a threat
of “nationalisation.”
And of the small farmer-group farmers
in general now wish they had never
heard. One of these worthies, that
eminent dog-racing judge Mr, Scully,
caused £2,000,000 of tax-money to be
paid to Westralian farmers for not grow-
ing wheat. He it was also who arranged
the “stabilisation scheme” under which
a 1945-46 wheatgrower’s equity in most of
the net proceeds ceases on death or en-
forced retirement, and who negotiated
the sale of 18,000,000 bushels to “Labor”
New Zealand at ss. 9d. when the
export price was 14s. 6d. —it is now
18s. 6d. bulk and 19s. 3£d. bagged,
and for bagged at least it will prob-
ably go to a pound. Mr. Pollard
completed that unspeakable transaction,
the first annual instalment of which —de-
liveries are spread over four years—is
costing the taxpayer £2,300,000. Then he
addressed himself to the job of “prepar-
ing for the 1947-48 harvest,” a job on
which, as is already evident in N. S.
Wales, everybody concerned except the
farmers who grew the wheat —“Labor”
Ministers, boards, departments, the whole
boiling—has fallen down.
In the drought years the man who
grows wheat in the State to which the
three principal Federal Ministers belong
(or which belongs to them) had no crops,
and often he had no labor, petrol, wire
or machinery parts. Now that he has a
crop he may have no bags, no silo-space,
no galvanised-iron for shelter and pro-
tection and no labor (unless he can find £3
a day for it); and he is more than likely
to be told that the Railway Department
has no trucks, and in any case has no
coal. Naturally men in the state of mind
produced by such an accumulation of
blows and by so many years of Com-
munist strikes and stoppages in coalmines,
factories and workshops, on wharves,
ships and railways, see red when told by
the greedy and incapable crowd respon-
sible for their worries that they shall have
no trading banks. And nowhere is feeling
running higher than in Mr. Scully’s elec-
torate, where a meeting of farmers and
townspeople denounced bank expropria-
tion “without a referendum” as “a dic-
tatorial act, part of a plan of which the
object is dictatorship control of Aus-
tralia,” winding ,up with the words “This
Citizens’ Rights Organisation is prepared
to resort to all means available to a
courageous people in defence of liberty.”
It won’t come to “all means,” but
the quoted resolution —adopted at In-
verell, and one of hundreds—is evidence
that the people of the inland are aroused
as never before. On the issue into which
“Labor” in its intolerant folly has tumbled
the Bush will meet this city crowd and
beat it.
Chess Without Vodka.
“The problem of Palestine is so urgent,”
said the American delegate at U.N.O.
Assembly, “that the Assembly must
reach a solution this session.” The
urgency developed when the Foreign
Office announced that the British with-
drawal would begin at the end of the
present Assembly debate unless an agreed
solution were found, and would do so
even if the debate were adjourned till
next session. The British forces are ex-
pected to leave early in 1948.
Who, then, will keep the country quiet
during the transition period? President
Truman declines “any commitment at
U.N.O. which could obligate the United
States to use Government troops” for
that purpose. He leans towards a
“voluntary international police force,”
but from what countries raised, how
directed and by whom paid are questions
to which there are so far no answers.
Yet some effectual police force there will
undoubtedly have to be, especially if, as the
United States desires, 150,000 Jewish im-
migrants are to be permitted to enter dur-
ing the interim period. That, on top of the
U.N.O. agreement on partition —Russia
has smoothly acceded to the decision —
would sting the Arab League to action.
When the Arab Higher Committee
greeted U.N.O.’s partition agreement
with the retort that it would mean war,
and the Arab League States began
staging “military measures” on the
frontiers of Palestine, a British \varning
was issued not to Egypt (with its en-
raged-sheep plans for a modern army
and navy), or to Saudi Arabia, or to
Iraq, but to Syria, where that stormy
petrel the Anglophobe ex-Mufti Hus-
seini had raised his head. The warning
came, like a breath of the good old days,
from the British Charge d’Affaires in
Beyrout—“acting on his own responsi-
bility” with subsequent endorsement by
Whitehall—and its purport was that “any
action against the inhabitants of Palestine,
for the peace and order of which Britain
is responsible, will be considered an act
against Britain.” The effect on a con-
temporary meeting of the Arab leaders
at Amman was reported to be salutary,
and presumably the Gyppo army, adver-
tised as awaiting orders to march on
Palestine from the south and inviting
Iraqi planes tc join it, promptly went to
ground west of the Canal. Using that
lingua franca acquired in every country
which has attracted the attention of the
oil contractors, King Abdullah of Trans-
jordan commented, through a spokesman
—“Everything is now 0.K.”
No less interesting than the American
reaction to Britain’s successful unload-
ing of ultimate responsibility upon
U.N.O. is the Russian support of Ameri-
can policy in respect to the “Jewish
State.” That the Soviet refrains from
backing the Arab League, and thereby
soliciting Moslem favor, against a de-
cision for Palestine made primarily
among the Western Powers is significant
enough to awaken curiosity in the West.
This is power politics—international
chess without vodka, as Russians call it
—being played out in the strategic cross-
roads where three continents and their
trade-routes meet. Russia’s interest in
Palestine and Syria is that they sit right
astride the oil-pipe deliveries and the
military highway along which every con-
queror in history has marched between
the iEgean and India, whether making
for the Nile Valley or for that of the
Euphrates. Russia’s siding against the
Arabs may betoken any one of a variety
of motives at the Kremlin, but it does not
fit in with a policy to woo Moslem
favor anywhere from Afghanistan right
around to that former Italian African
colony of Tripoli in which Moscow last
year generated a fictitious interest.
Coming on top of the failure of the
Security Council to provide the peace-
keeping machinery prescribed in the
U.N. Charter, the Assembly’s ultimate
decision for policing the partition in
Palestine must be particularly important.
If it can engineer a “volunteer interna-
tional police force” for Palestine with
or without Russia there is no reason why
it should not do the same in Macedonia.
Around such tentative proposals the pro-
ject for a “little Assembly,” as executive
between general Assembly sessions, is
being planned ; and herein lies a possible
remedy for Russian sabotage of the
Council. If the democracies are deter-
mined that the , United Nations shall
assert authority to keep the peace they
have no other resort but to some such
move. Whether it will prove a lever
capable of lifting the iron curtain is
another matter.
The short-range aim is to call the
Soviet’s bluff. The Marshall Plan began
that process, and the Western Powers
must see it through. “Getting tough with
Russia” is one expression of it, but it is
straining the situation to presume, as
some Americans do, that another war
must be the result. There are signs—and
Mr. Churchill is the latest to read them
—that Moscow is leading from weakness
rather than strength, and that if Stalin,
from an advantageous post-war position,
were as strong as he would like to be
bluffing would have finished before this..
Apart from the coming British retire-
ment from Palestine two other events will
shortly bring the West and Russia to close
grips—one, the November Four-Power
conference over Germany (apparently
foredoomed to futility); the other the
eleven-Power settlement with Japan.
What the Western democracies, especi-
ally the United States, have had to learn
is that the defeat of Germany and Japan
not only removed essential sources of
consumer goods from international mar-
kets but also abolished long-established
balances against Russian political pres-
sure. On both sides of the U.S.S.R. in-
ternational counterweights have been
suddenly and simultaneously released —
that of Japan in Manchuria and of Ger-
many in the Baltic and on the Danube.
The result is a problem in dynamics.
Until the necessary checks are devised
to this Muscovite force, by nature “ag-
gressive and expansionist” (as Dean Ache-
son described it), Russia will continue to
create alarums and excursions among the
nations.
No doubt some sort of a Western bloc
will appear, inevitable as tomorrow’s
sun, to take the place of a strong Ger-
many on Russia’s European flank. Like
Germany, it will grope south-eastward
down the Danube to maintain the
counter-balance which pre-war Europe
found necessary. By the same natural
instinct Russia today (through her satel-
lites as well as with some force of her
own) sits astride the great military corri-
dor of the Morava-Vardar valley, an-
ticipating Western Europe’s move.
On the far Asiatic flank of Russia the
Chinese Communists hold virtually all
Manchuria and with it yet another re-
nowned military passage —that from the
old Mongol plains into China. Whether
or not these Chinese Communists are
designedly conforming to a Russian
policy, at least they are doing Russia’s
work, They are demonstrating once
more, as history has demonstrated many
times, that China does not and can not
control Manchuria, that the Great Wall
was built in acceptance of that truth
centuries ago, and that, if anything, Man-
churia controls China. It was a defect
in American diplomacy, though surely
Mr. Churchill could not have suffered
any illusions, that the Cairo Conference
of 1943 assented to the proposal that
Manchuria should be restored to China
as a step in establishing post-war
security. Thereat Stalin at the Kremlin
must have grinned behind his moustache.
He was not present at that conference,
but he conformed with its decision in
the Russo-Chinese treaty of 1945. With
puppet Communist republics in Outer
Mongolia and in Manchuria he can
always decide how much peace and
security China shall enjoy—while he lives.
With his successor, or the struggle for the
succession, may come the deluge.
If another clash should occur between
Russia and the West over the Japanese
settlement Australia ought to be pre-
pared for consequences that one authori-
tative English commentator calls “per-
plexing indeed.” What exactly is the
role planned for “satellite Japan” —the
satellite, that is, of American policy?
Sir Paul Butler, who has spent a lifetime
in the British diplomatic service in the
Far East, writes in the London “Spec-
tator” :
The wheel may be turning full circle. In
Korea, Formosa and Manchuria material
conditions are far worse today than under
the oppressive Japanese regime; and it may
in time be realised that the Japanese ex-
ception of their mission as a “stabilising
force” in East Asia, which was never ques-
tioned by world opinion before the Man-
churian Incident, had some justification.
This follows several pretty plain inti-
mations in recent months from General
MacArthur that Japan may have to be
set on its feet again as some sort of a
buffer against Russia in the Far East.
When the first American plan to groom
China for this role was frustrated by the
failure of the Kuomintang Government
to fill the bill, the substitution of Japan
for the job was the only alternative.
Of course there are risks in that policy,
and there are obvious political risks in
restoring Japan’s industrial economy.
Japan’s military strength, like Germany’s,
was built up on her tremendous manu-
facturing enterprise. Yet for both of
them today the victors dare not prescribe
too limited a measure of economic re-
covery. Asia is starved for those com-
modities which Japan was relied upon to
supply, just as Central Europe relied upon
the manufactures of Germany. The basis
of each of these great industrial produc-
tion units was the natural energy and
skill of its people. Those peoples and their
industrious proclivities are still there. No
less than the Russian political driving
force, they are among the immutables m
any international account-taking.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Communists and Churchmen.
Addressing the Legion of Catholic
Women at St. Mary’s, Sydney, Monsignor
O’Regan suggested that holding of union
meetings in work hours “might pay Aus-
tralian industry a worthwhile dividend.”
He went on to declare that “today it is
either Rome or Moscow.” Trades Hall
worthies and employers replied agree-
ing for once—that union meetings on the
job wouldn’t work. They did not discuss
the unfortunate “Rome or Moscow” re-
mark, but the issue is one that Com-
munists themselves raise.
There is not so much sectarianism in
Australia as there used to be, and it
seemed in a fair way of disappearing until
it was revived by Communists and by an
extreme Protestant element which finds
its worst expression in the paper called
the “Rock.” To the “Rock” the Com-
munist conspiracy is the “Commo
bogey,” and Protestant clergymen who
take this view are extolled in it as regu-
larly as the Catholic clergy are attacked,
in the case of individuals often foully.
The “Rock” also devotes to execration
“the extreme anti-Russian policy of
Truman,” and sees the U.S.A. “stabbing
Britain in the back” in pursuance of a
policy “highly colored by the Vatican.”
All raving nonsense, but it finds buyers
and believers.
The “Rock” is useful to Communists,
since they trade on anti-Catholic feeling,
particularly in unions, Labor Councils
and the like. They exploit it against
Catholic union bosses' who string along
with them as well as Catholics who aspire
to union office. They have an asset also
in the craven fears of Catholic “Labor”
politicians, who won’t do a thing to them,
even when they seize control of foreign
policy, and who, when challenged to take
such action as has had to be taken in
Canada and the United States, to say
nohing of South America, profess to
believe them harmless while knowing the
contrary.
It is no mere accident that many of
the Communist leaders have Irish names.
One of them changed his patronymic
from McCracken to Healy—he has never
said why, but it is easy to guess. Another
Communist in a big union job who gets
an astonishing vote at union elections
was educated for the priesthood.
In a contest between a Communist who
has or is supposed to have left the
Church and a Catholic who is ready to
go three parts of the way with the Com-
munists the extreme Protestant vote goes
to the Com. So does the vote of the
section which, neither Communist nor
Catholic, nor anything in particular, pre-
fers even an extremist to a fellow who
won’t fight for his religion or his country.
There are extreme Protestants who tag
along with Communists in America, too,
A party of seven recently went to Yugo-
slavia at the invitation of Tito. They
returned with the report that Tito, so
far from being a murderous ruffian, was
really an estimable character, and that
one of his victims', a Catholic arch-
bishop now languishing in a Communist
prison-hell, was a “Quisling collaborator
with Hitler.” The leader of the party
was the Rev. Dr. Shipler, editor of
the “Churchman.” Accused by a lady
member of the “Churchman” board in
a letter of resignation of having, with
his colleagues (one was Dr. Mellish,
associate rector of the Church of the
Holy Trinity, Brooklyn, and chairman of
the National Council of American-Soviet
Friendship), “attempted to whitewash
Tito’s regime despite the appalling facts
on official record,” Dr. Shipler replied that
“increasing numbers [of Protestants] are
determined to fight the type of political
clericalism that has been so disastrous to
other countries.” When this is the atti-
tude of church dignitaries in the U.S.A.,
the attitude of sectarians in this country,
unionists or “Rock” writers, is under-
standable. But it is having evil effects.
Not Quiet on the Molonglo.
From one of the crowd:
The Speaker lolls in his chair, exchanging
occasional badinage with “Labor” front-benchers.
One of them is the Minister of Forceps, and
his Honor pats the Minister’s hand.
Mr. Chifley comes in. It is a few minutes
before he is timed to begin his speech, and
he sits among the back-benchers, waving here
and there, like a boxer in his corner.
The P.M. goes to the, table. He beckons
to Mr. Scully, who draws a Minister’s salary
for moving that “the question be now put.”
Mr. Scully sits on the Treasury bench, crouched
like a leopard for the spring.
Mr. Harrison rises on a point of order. Mr.
Chifley raises his little finger. Mr. Scully
springs with feline swiftness to move the gag.
Mr. Chifley then sets new standards in Par-
liamentary decorum for his followers, who
assume a perhaps fictitious air of enjoyment.
From the first word to the last the P.M.’s
back is turned to the Speaker. His speech,
whoever prepared it, is addressed to the galleries,
which have been filled under the supervision of
Commonwealth police.
Standing Order 256 says “A member shall
not read his speech.” Mr. Chifley reads every
word of his (or theirs), a thing no Opposition
member would have dared to attempt.
It was the dullest performance ever listened
to from a Prime Minister. Even some “Labor”
members could not last out a full hour of it.
One of them, in the second row, directly be-
hind the Ministerial bench, and only about
10ft. from the orator, lay down with his head
over one arm of a bench, a pair of tan boots
reared up over the other.
Anyone versed in seventeenth-century history
must have felt throughout that the ghost of
Cromwell might rise at any moment.
Playing up to "Labor. 11
What’s the matter with the Employers’
Federation? It must know by now that
the frequent 1.L.0. conference is just a
racket, and a hollow excuse for the
racketeering jaunts of “Labor” and
union (often Communist) deadheads.
Yet it has obliged the “Government” by
agreeing to send a representative to “the
Preparatory Asian Regional Conference
of the 1.L.0.” (New Delhi, October 27-
November 8) and another to “the next
meeting of the 1.L.0. governing body,”
to begin on December 6.
One of the paradoxical features of
the times is that a section of employers,
and not only those who derive their sub-
stantial incomes from the “Labor”-
favored Booze and Betting interests,
“MR, HOLLOWAY PRESENTS”
“Every feature and objective in the Communist philosophy are based on the teachings
of Christ.” — Holloway, who is Minister of Labor and National Service.
“Ain’t he Christlike?”
plays up to “Labor.” As “Labor” would
say (and did say privately) there were
employers who “ ‘scabbed’ on their mates”
by finding jobs for Victorian metal-trades
and Sydney dockyard and I.C.L unionists,
summoned by Communists to strike
against the “Labor” wage-pegging policy,
which “Labor” itself abandoned in thd
process of feathering its own nest.
Thereby these greedy employers inflicted
on worthy people of,all parties injuries
the effects of which are still evident.
Employers’ Federation participation in
more racketeering 1.L.0. conferences was
announced simultaneously with Deputy
Opposition-leader Harrison’s indictment
of the 1.L.0. racket .as “a jauntirfg expe-
dition,” with “nine” dollar-squandering
“Government members” as beneficiaries
“within fourteen months.” It was an
immediate sequel to Senator Amour’s
“explanation” of his being refused a pas-
sage in the plane which was to carry him
back to Sydney after his most expensive
wanderings. Senator Amour denied
that he was put off the plane because he
was fighting drunk. He admitted the ex-
pulsion, but attributed it to his having,
in a thoughtless moment, lighted a
cigarette, as he had done in the Senate.
He accused Old Digger Abbott of
having attacked him under cover of privi-
lege, choosing to forget that, under cover
of privilege, he himself had attacked
A.I.F. officers who somehow annoyed
him during his period of First World
War service.
This Employers’ Federation or the
Council of Employers’ Federation should
look to itself. It should have withdrawn
from the 1.L.0. racket immediately it
became evident that the thing was a
racket. Instead, it is helping to prolong
an unsavory business on which Australia
is paying dear for being made to look
cheap.
Arbitration Ringbarked.
Hardly had the Chifley “Government”
proclaimed its new Arbitration Act, side-
tracking the Court and installing a host
of new “temperamentally-fitted” Concili-
ation Commissioners, when the whole
thing started to fall down.
Three Commissioners resigned before
the ink was dry on the warrants appoint-
ing them. Simultaneously two waterside
unions set out to make nonsense of every
assurance from “Labor” politicals that
the New Conciliation was a sure-fire
remedy for industrial insurgence.
At least one Commissioner threw up
the appointment because the industries
allocated to him for regulation were not
those he expected or felt qualified to pre-
side over, or something of that sort.
Another, a Westralian magistrate, pre-
ferred the relative peace and contentment
of his home State to “being pushed
around” outside it. The third, a Victorian,
decided to go back to his own job.
The Foreman Stevedores’ Association
struck in Sydney and threatened to lay all
Australian shipping idle, because it re-
sented as “outrageous” the decision of the
Senior Conciliation Commissioner, Mr.
Stewart, that the stevedores should return
to wo>k, pending a decision on the issue
that 12 supervisors employed by a certain
stevedoring company should be compelled
to join the stevedores’ union. The particu-
lar “outrage” was the Commissioner’s im-
position of a fine for non-compliance with
his order, which was the second of the
sort he had made against this unibn. Heat
developed rapidly when the union pro-
tested to the Attorney-General against
“the conduct of the Commissioner.”
Commissioner Morrison, brought to the
scene, conciliated the dispute by directing
that the 12 supervisors should be sus-
pended while the State Industrial Com-
mission pronounces on the union
matter.
Meanwhile, the Communist-controlled
Clerks’ Union declared all Westralian
cargoes “black” for more than a week
because certain Fremantle shipping
clerks, being in a union of their own, re-
fused to join the Commo-run concern.
“Demarcation disputes,” outlawed in
the U.S.A. by the Taft-Hartley Act, are
disputes in which a stronger union tries
to “liquidate” a smaller union. Nearly
all recent stoppages in Australia have
been caused by this internal strife, and
the public has been the sufferer always.
The stoppage produced by the clerks is
now lifted while a Conciliation Commis-
sioner produces a solution.
If the unions are allowed to use the
new Conciliation Commissioner system
to enforce purely union decisions for
compulsory unionism, then industrial
arbitration will be well and truly ring-
barked.
Missing—a Soldier-Settler.
About two years ago the trustees of
the Morrice estate offered Glenrock, near
Marulan (N.S.W,), an area of 5730 acres,
for soldier-settlement. The offer was ac-
cepted. State Lands officials subdivided
the place into three blocks. Common-
wealth officials wouldn’t have three
blocks, insisting on two only.
There followed the usual passages of
words, conferences and letters, and the
usual passage of time. The trustees, sick
to death of the whole business, waited
hopelessly for some solution. So did the
three men who had been granted the
blocks. Young Digger Bate, M.L.A. for
Wollondilly, comes in here:
O’Brien, Brewer and Jolly applied for
the three blocks in August, 1946. On De-
cember 2 the N.S.W. Lands Department told
them the applications were approved, sub-
ject to Commonwealth consent, the inference
being that there was no doubt of that
consent. Nine days later the men weapon
the property on a tenure of tenancy at
will, O’Brien taking with him his mother,
wife and two children. There was a home-
stead, buildings and fences. All that was
needed was some sub-divisional fencing
Brewer now has 1100 sheep with lambs
at foot, but nowhere to put them. O’Brien
had a few sheep but no income. He spent
his deferred pay, his insurance money, then
some money he borrowed, and finally he
pawned his wife’s property to carry on.
In March this year the Federal authorities
refused to agree to the subdivision.
The three settlers then sought their
Federal member, Mr. Fraser, who “con-
ferred” with Minister Dedman. Minister
Dedman revoked the refusal and ordered
another inspection. Meantime the men
“had spent all their resources and were in
a pitiable state.” After the inspection the
Commonwealth officials held out for two
blocks. This was agreed to, O’Brien and
Brewer offering £4 15s. Bd. an acre for the
3800 acres. After more shilly-shallying the
Federal authorities again refused consent,
this time to the slightly increased price
caused by the exclusion of poorer land.
O’Brien made one mistake. He was sec-
retary of the Burwood Labor League. If
,he had remained in that office he might
have been showered with concessions, but
he made the mistake of going to the war.
Mr. Bate exempted N.S.W. Lands
Minister Sheahan from his animadver-
sions, saying “I know that if he can do
anything to improve the position he will
do it.” He concluded with a request for
an inquiry “in the widest possible terms
—entirely dissimilar from the narrowness
of the Lands Sales Control inquiry, which
resulted only in a few bouquets being
thrown at the Federal Government.”
Mr. Sheahan had no bouquets for the
Federal authorities when he replied, as
he did —in substance as follows:
If O’Brien did not get a Glenrock block,
nobody else would.
When appointed to the Ministry he found
Glenrock negotiations under way. He
himself would not have chosen it for sol-
dier-settlement, but chosen it was and he
went ahead. On a two-block basis it would
have cost the State £20,790, and the State
had fixed a limit of £ll,OOO for settling a
soldier: £7OOO to £BOOO to buy the property,
the balance for stocking, improvements, etc.
The estate was a practicable proposition as
a three-farm basis at its three-farm price,
£3 16s. lOd. an acre; a “reasonably good
investment.”
When he became Minister the men were
already in a state of frustration. Common-
wealth officers suggested to him that the
land was no good for pasture improvement.
A N.S.W. Department of Agriculture officer
made two different reports, the first before
he was offered a Commonwealth position
—he changed, evidently on that account.
Proceeding, Mr. Sheahan said he had got
Mr. Prell (Prell, of Gundowingra, an
acknowledged pasture expert) to inspect the
property. Mr. Prell was satisfied that it
would lend itself to pasture improvement.
He himself had urged the Common-
wealth Director of War Service Land Set-
tlement to review the case.. Commonwealth
officers remained obdurate till October 1,
when they agreed to the three-farms
proposition. But there was a catch. The
Commonwealth wanted the State to accept
the responsibility of “planning, financing
and executing the pasture-establishment pro-
gramme and capitalising the cost with the
land.”
There the matter lies, after more than
two years. O’Brien, broke and dis-
heartened, has temporarily vanished —he
was last heard of working for wages out
of Oberon. Brewer has a little money left
and is hanging on. What happened to
Jolly didn’t come out.
Mr. Sheahan has taken the steady
stand that where State and Common-
wealth officers disagree on matters of
values, areas and so forth, the respon-
sible State Minister should have the
power to make a final decision. But
simple solutions are not in the lexicon of
bureaucracy, and at Canberra it is the
bureaucrats who rule in matters like this.
Meantime, the tragedy of O’Brien, the
wearing-down of Brewer and the dismay
of Jolly are being repeated all over the
‘ country as the dreams of would-be
soldier-settlers, as, according to Mr. Bate,
O’Brien has done, “vanish into thin air.”


CRAVENA
inode specially to prevent
soie tfmdts
a-
-6558
Obtainable
in lO’§ & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Cain’s plea that banking is “a Federal
matter” convinces nobody, not even him-
self. He made a “State matter” of it when
he spent State funds in backing Chifley’s
attempt to force State Governments and
municipalities, successfully resisted by
Melbourne City Council, to do all their
business with the Commonwealth Bank.
And, as Fadden points out, if there is
to be. only One Big Bank, Victoria and
the other five States will lose a whale of
revenue from stamp duties. That will be
a “State matter,” and a very nasty one.
There were powerful passages in Lang’s
speech on what was (and what wasn’t)
brought out at the Sydney Land Sales
Control inquiry, but he weakened the
general effect by trying to prove too
much. Had he stuck to and argued from
the it |good-as-“Labor” Parry affair he
would have been more telling. Even so,
he contrived to make Chifley uneasy)
and angry. He himself was unmoved
when the P.M. called him “a life member
of the Society for the Cultivation of the
Dirty Tongue.”
Queensland has had another bad Gov-
ernment railway smash. At dead of night
the Townsville mail crashed into the
Rockhampton mail at Tamaree siding,
and when crews and passengers had been
attended to, six persons were dead and
15 injured, some badly. That makes the
tally for two accidents 22 killed, 45 in-
jured, which is dreadful. At the coroner’s
inquest, if not at the departmental in-
quiry, some consideration should be
given to the Communist propaganda with
which railwaymen are incessantly plied.
Introducing in the N.S.W. Assembly his
measure to strangle 50 of the 66 self-
governing bodies in the County of Cum-
berland, with cancellation of the
December elections as a first manoeuvre.
Minister Cahill said “Every thoughtful
person in the community realises the
necessity for the bill.” This, despite the
fact that he had refused to give those
thoughtful persons a chance to express
their thoughts at a referendum and had
altered the Local Government Act to take
away their right to demand one. So far
those who have expressed their thoughts
have been violently opposed to the change
and the two councils most vocal in pro-
test —Mosman and Strathfield —have been
reprieved, though they can scarcely have
missed the threat implicit in Cahill’s
remark that' any question of extension
of the functions of the 16 bodies allowed
to remain “will depend on the manner
in which they acquit themselves.” Apart
from generalisations the only argument
so far advanced by Cahill in favor of
the Greater Sydney part of the plan is
that it will make possible a municipal
ferry service. The eleventh-hour reprieve
of the North Shore suburbs spragged
this argument and there was no mention
of it in the Minister’s speech.
Those crusaders for the freedom of
British and American scientists to reveal
all they know about atom-bomb making,
whether State secrets or not, may now
learn from the Presidium of the Soviet
Trade Union Central Council exactly
how the Russians regard the ethics of the
business. A new decree by this body
inveighs at great length against trade-
union tendencies to adulation of “the
putrefying reactionary culture of the
bourgeois West.” Press articles accom-
panying it indict Soviet men of science
and inventors who, “propelled by petty
personal glory, are making haste to pub-
lish abroad articles on their work which
is really the property of the Soviet State.”
Most people would suppose it impossible
to commit such an offence.
Having read that Graham, the Sydney
Minister of Agriculture, was talking about
building galvanised-iron bulkheads for
storing wheat, the managing director of
Lysaghts was moved to say that because
it now takes nearly thrice as long to
load a ship at Newcastle as in 1939,
8022 tons of galvanised and sheet iron
was packed and ready for shipment at
Newcastle on October 14. The stuff was
needed for housing and the backlog of
orders from other States was “alarming”
—48,958 tons. Under present wharf con-
ditions the distribution position was “im-
possible.” And McGirr alone has
promised to build 90,000 houses!
Ashley disclosed his age to the com-
pilers of the 1947 Who's Who —it had
previously been a well-kept secret, as
Holloway’s age still is. Ashley, it seems,
was “b. 1886,” which means that he was
13 when the Boer War broke out. He
did enlist for South African service, but
didn’t see any fighting, nor did he see
any on other fields in 1914-18.
Sidney Webb, who became Lord Pass-
field when accepting office from a
“Labor” Government, is dead at 88. He
was the founder of Fabian socialism,
which made such an appeal to “clever”
people, and with his wife he wrote a
number of dull books which, stuffed with
statistics as they were, appealed to the
“clever” people as authoritative. In one
of them the Webbs extolled Sovietism.
The husband lived long enough to see
it become a merciless Oriental despotism,
carrying on and extending the greedy
imperialism of the Czars, and to see his
native country reduced to a dreadful
plight by a Government which followed
his precepts blindly ; but he was incapable
of perceiving, much less admitting, the
possibility, which events made appalling
certainty, that he was wrong. Socialists
are as vain as peacocks, though in another
way.
Calwell has had the face to assert that
“the private banks manoeuvred the clos-
ing of the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank in 1931”:
I have no time for Mr. Lang, whom I
have always regarded as a political impostor
and humbug, but the closing of the bank
was not his fault.
A glaring falsification of history, and
when did Calwell regard Lang as a
political impostor and humbug? He
never said a word to Lang’s detriment
when the pair were contending against
Communism (Lang kept going, but Cal-
well twisted), and opinion at Canberra
not long ago was that Calwell, Ward
and the Big Fellow were friends,
Cosgrove anticipates a loss of £527,000
on the Tasmanian accounts for the
current financial year; and that’s about
£2 a head. The “Labor” Premier blames
“Federal legislation, particularly uniform
taxation,” and sees no hope of ever bal-
ancing the Budget. Reduction of un-
necessary expenditure would help, but no
“ ‘Labor’ Government” ever goes in for
that.
Divided on so many other subjects,
Attlee and Churchill are at one on the
abusive and threatening attitude of
Moscow. Attlee on Sept. 28:
The virulence of Russian attacks on the
Western democracies is a measure of the
difficulties confronting the Russian Govern-
ment at home.
Churchill on Oct. 14:
If the minds of these men in the Kremlin
were set on war I cannot believe that they
would not lull the easygoing democracies
into a false sense of security. The abuse
is for internal purposes.
In effect the masters of the Communist
world have to scare their dumb, driven
cattle to keep them dumb and driven.
Obviously “Labor” has never forgotten
that the “pitcher” interest helped if to
office in 1929 when Bruce threatened to
“tax the children’s films.” Hollywood’s
“dollar remittances” to the U.S.A., round
seven millions a year, are to be reduced
by a mere 30 p.c., and it is to be free to
spend or invest the 30 p.c. in Australia
as it pleases. What is left after “pay-
ment of capital debts, capital expenditure
on existing structures” (listening, Digger?)
and the like may go towards making
films. What a thing it is these times to
be a Parry, a Goldberg, a “sport,” a
touring “Labor” politician or a film co.!
Minister Lemmon didn’t inherit his
aggressive manner, and he could profit by
his father’s example in other ways. Father
Lemmon, M.L.A. for Williamstown
(Vic.) since 1904 and in the field again,
bracketed with Ted Cotter, in a touching
tribute to that departed worthy’s memory,
spoken on September 30, “members who
have graced other parties in this House
—men of sterling character and worth
who served the people faithfully accord-
ing to their convictions.” Let the son cul-
tivate that spirit—if he can—and he will
get along better.
There is a horse called Four Freedoms
in the Melbourne Cup. It has a better
chance of winning under V.R.C. rules
than the Four Freedoms have of surviv-
ing in Australia under Chifiey-Evatt
rules.
The risk of Australia losing millions of
bushels of .wheat through a shortage of
bags, transport and storage space is
mounting every day. The harvest is now
expected to go 245,000,000 bushels, and
from Pollard down the “wheat authori-
ties” are twittering like a lot of maiden
ladies suddenly confronted with an
urgent confinement case. But even among
, maiden ladies one or two could be found
to carry the thing through. The “wheat
authorities” seek refuge in silly excuses.
As a necessary sequel to the assassina-
tions of a roomful of Cabinet, Ministers
in Burma, done in by a mob of “patriots”
while making final preparations for in-
dependence of British rule, law and order
and every other familiar feature of a
quiet and prosperous life, a new Ministry
has been set up ; and it answers to the
roll-call thus:—-
Thakin Nu, P.M. and Education.
Lun Haw, Foreign Affairs.
Bo Letya, Defence.
Kyaw Nyein, Home.
U Tin Tut, Finance,
U Mya, National Planning.
Ba Cyan, Commerce.
Two former Ministers, who escaped death
through being a.w.1., and are now booked
for diplomatic posts abroad as consola-
tion prizes, assuring a measure of safety,
are Pe Khin and U Win. Out of the race
were Paint Tin and Bo Kun Go.
When Molotov arrives in London for
another Foreign Ministers conference he
is likely to find 15 Englishmen on his
doorstep demanding freedom for their
wives—Russian girls whom they married
while on military and diplomatic service
in Russia. All Britain, the Communist
rabble excepted, has taken up the case
of these women, and Government and
private persons, as well as the husbands,
have exhausted every possible means to
effect a reunion of the couples—five of
the 15 wives have children. One woman,
Mrs. William Greenhaigh, got a letter out
to her husband in London reading “I am
being sent to Archangel, help me now.”
To Russia-Is-Always-Right ladies like
Mrs. Jessie Street, who has had two very
expensive trips abroad at the expense of
the Australian taxpayer, the poor crea-
ture doesn’t exist.
Ward, after praising American trains
and being tartly reminded that they
are privately-owned, whined that “I also
referred to the great deal of waste in the
operations of the railways under private
ownership, but that the press failed to
publish.” The old contemptible dodge!
If there is waste on American railways,
it could not possibly exceed the waste
on our Government railways, and in any
case the companies, not the people, would
have to pay for it.
Hollway’s deputy, Oldham, told a
Malvern audience, the other night that a
Lib.-C.P. election win in Victoria would
be followed by a referendum on banking
in the three States. The Fireman-Fiihrer
would stop it if he could, but he can’t.
Chifley pleads that the Commonwealth
Bank is worthy to be entrusted with the
monopoly he proposes to create for it.
its record stands as a great justification
of publicly-owned banking and demonstrates
beyond question that a publicly-owned
banking institution is capable of being
highly efficient, progressive and adaptable. .
But the Commonwealth Bank’s trading
branch plainly could not progress beyond
a certain point, otherwise the Chifley-
Wards would not be trying to extinguish
the free-enterprise banks. And whatever
degree of efficiency the Commonwealth
Bank attained in this field was due to the
spur of competition. That removed, the
the One Big Bank as a servant of the
trading community’s day-to-day needs
could not be expected to be any more
efficient than any other service run solely
a bureaucracy—the Government Ship-
. Line for instance or Government
pin f r me * or . instance, or uovernmcut
coalmines, trams or trams.
A New York paper, the “Sun;' declares
he leaves the Army at the end of the year,
if fie does he will be a very formidable
rival of Dewey and Taft. The Americans
have an old weakness for war veterans
as Presidents. Between the war of 1812
and “the war between the States” they
elected Jackson, the first Harrison and
Taylor, and after the Civil War their
choice fell on Grant, Hayes, Garfield,
Arthur, the second Harrison and Mc-
Kinley. When Jackson took office he
was 62 (he had two terms); W. H. Harri-
son was 64 and Taylor 65. Eisenhower
turned 57 on October 14.
There have been suggestions of seces-
s'on movements if the Bank Grab goes
through. Those responsible should drop
th ? id( ; a at . once. Th ,®
cr immal idiocies of Canberra Labor
a . re no e , xcuse for J> reakin g UP the Federa-
tlon and Pitting the clock back 50 years,
Governments of the Chifley type bring
a^ out their °. wn . deduction provided
their opponents keep their heads and
d °u t ad y9 cate counter-lunacies.
Blitz is a word that has survived the
war. The Victorian Government an-
, .. . ,
nounced a blitz on something almost
weekly. It declared blitzes on rent
racketeers, the blackmarket in meat, rising
p r i ces and speeding motorists. In 1945
jt started a blitz on slums and the housing
shortage. Barry, Minister of Housing,
recently announced the result—since its
inception the Housing Commission has
built 4502 houses and has 3346 under
construction. No mention of tennis-
courts; but perhaps tennis-courts are
not a Housing Commission matter.
“More drastic dollar cuts” are
threatened by Courtice, the Customs
Minister who, in a bad “Labor” depar-
ture from wholesome precedent, is in the
Senate. The threat was issued when
people exposed to dollar cuts were
wondering how Romano could arrange to
go to the U.S.A. to see a Bernborough
foal and W. J. (“Knockout”) Smith to
send his horse Shannon to race there, and
how it came about that a negro pugilist
and his manager, both consigned to
Wren’s Stadiums, were permitted to
transmit the dollar equivalent of £3OOO
before they left this country. Are
“sports,” as well as “Labor” politicians,
exempt from these dollar restrictions?
One item of Tasmanian expenditure
which should not cut is the for
the Lib Board, which has Morris>
CJ > for chairman. Since the Libraries
(1943) was proclaimed substantial
improvement has been made, though
muc fi remains to be done before it can
sa j d t fi at Tasmania has an adequate
Ht> rar y system. In 1946-47, £30,789 was
vo t ed f or libraries whereas less than
£2OOO was spent five years before. By
j unej 1945, 11 municipalities were spend-
jng money on books and three more have
qualified for State aid. One of the
brightest instances of library develop-
ment is Longford, where the council
bought a building in the centre of the
town and had it renovated, attractively
furnished and stocked.


STIRRUPS HIGH AND SPIRITS LOW.
“Stone the crows, Arthur—do you want to stiffen us altogether?”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”; The audience at our suburban
concert had sat with dumb resignation
through the henlike cackles- of an ageing
coloratura, a recitation —save the mark!
—by a seven-year-old brat with Shirley
Temple curls who spaced each word with
maddening accuracy, and the sawing
operations of a juvenile Torquemada
whose catgut wailings roused In his
hearers only an intense wish that he
could be the immediate victim of an
auto da fe. Then came the final straw:
the flute sonata of some modernist. The
flute is a beautiful instrument in the
hands of an expert and as one of the
concerted voices of an orchestra. Wielded
by one who should be still in the tin-
whistle class it conjures homicidal
thoughts even fiercer than those for the
bagpipist who insists on playing flat out
in a small lounge-room. Twenty minutes
after it started the soloist, with a blithe
disregard for the murdered notes that
strewed his path to virtuosity, was in
the middle of a passage where the piano
accompaniment struck three notes and
paused to allow the flautist to repeat
them. At about the 15th repetition, when
the audience’s chief interest was in
watching the open pianoforte score for
the blessed end page and final relief, a
deep voice from the back of the hall
boomed out “For Gawd’s sake get a trot
on an’ catch up with her!”
* * * *
“Oxmead”; I find the views of our
legal fraternity on philological questions
conflicting and confusing. A few weeks
ago we had a Sydney magistrate
dismissing a charge against a man
for addressing two police constables
as “mug coppers” and advising the
latter not to be so thin-skinned.
Only the other day an offender
was fined a fiver for exactly the same
term of non-endearment. But I wonder
how many people noticed an even more
glaring case of disagreement over a word.
Quite lately a Sydney beak, trying an
assault case, snapped at a witness for
using the word “bash” and testily told
him to “speak English.” Yet within a
month a Supreme Court Judge, in his
summing up of a similar case, employed
the same word mor# than once. I con-
cur with his Honor in regarding it as too
well-established a verb to be ruled un-
English.
* * * *
“Legree”: ,“Pitt Street” is right (B.
1/10/’47) —the man who has bought
a puppy is almost as great a men-
ace as the newly - blessed father.
Every time the pup tears up a carpet his
misdeeds are broadcast, and if he hap-
pens to pass a day without noteworthy
achievement the suffering audience is told
again of his perfect breeding, his intelli-
gence, his symmetry and so on. Our
office is cursed with one of these babbling
fanciers, and derived genuine pleasure
from seeing his usual beaming expression
replaced by one of glumness and hearing
his explanation: “I think I’ve been had.
When I bought my puppy there was some
hitch with his pedigree, and they told me
in the shop they would have the docu-
ment for me in six weeks. A few days
after I got him I noticed that the pup’s
back legs were going bandy. An expert
told me he had rickets, and although he
is well again now, he still has the bandy
legs. So I called him Ricky. I received
the pedigree this morning and find among
his ancestors Rick, Rickly, Ricochet and
Ricardo.”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: When the Methodist
Church down at Renmark (S.A.) caught
fire the townspeople turned out to watch
it. Somebody saw a rather large Alsatian
dog in the uncertain light from the flames,
but before he could pat or kick it the
thing let out a scared “whoof” and backed
away. Then those Renmarkians who had
read “Kodak” O’Ferrall’s Lobster and the
Lioness realised the sensations of his
lesser characters who discovered the
lioness in the boarding-house, and were
about to call out the artillery or some-
thing when some circus attendants
arrived and took the poor old thing away.
at ♦ ♦ *
“Clooter”: One of those obliging
visitors to these shores, in this case “a
Texan oil magnate, rancher and scientist”
named T. B. Slick, cast up in Mel-
bourne and was soon telling reporters
that Australian inventors whose ideas
had never been exploited in their own
country might get their chance in his,
since he represented a research founda-
tion in San Antone which invited in-
ventors to submit their ideas. These, if
acceptable and capable of development,
were taken in hand by the foundation
and brought up to market standard. Then
Brother Slick incautiously admitted that
he had started the business with a million-
dollar endowment, and there ensued such
“He follows very well, doesn't he?"
a rush of inventors from all over the place
that the man had difficulty in getting in
and out of his pub and had to call for
assistance. Whereafter he withdrew, and
somewhat hurriedly announced that
henceforth all inventions would have to
be submitted in writing. For a while the
inventors hung hopefully about, but
presently they wrapped up their models,
rolled , their plans and silently faded
away.
* * * *
“Malander”: It was hardly to be sup-
posed that the voice of Walter Nash,
N.Z. Minister of Finance, speaking in
the Dominion Parliament on something
or other and being broadcast over the
N.Z. national radio, should ride the
stormy Tasman and bring a lonely air-
man home. But it happened when young
H. B. Newton, ex-R.N.Z.A.F., who had
flown to Australia from Belgium in a tiny
monoplane, on his way home to N.Z. —
he had worked in a Belgian aircraft fac-
tory and saved enough money to buy the
’plane as his only means of getting home
—saw bad weather over Norfolk Island
and, though briefed to land there by
Australian Civil Aviation authorities,
gave it away and headed for Auckland:
I was hoping for a homing signal and
was getting a bit worried in the murk when
the radio brought in the unmistakable tones
of the Minister of Finance, speaking like
a, son of a gun I cannot say how grate-
ful I was to him.
The young man flew blind on the radio
beam provided by the Nash voice and
landed on the flare-path at Whenuapai
12hrs. 50min. 'after taking off from Coff’s
Harbor (N.S.W.) and with an 18min. stop
at Lord Howe to fix the engine cowling.
His is the smallest-powered aeroplane to
make the crossing.
* * ♦ •
“Danyo”: One of those queer human
associations came to a sad end in a bag-
and-tin shanty near Scone (N.S.W.), when
the female partner poisoned herself. She
had masqueraded as a man for the eight
or nine years she spent with her rabbit-
trapper and bush-rouseabout companion,
posing to the outside world as his son,
“Joe,” being 20 years the junior of the
58-year-old trapper. The daily press
made a great to-do about it, holding that
her secret had been kept for the whole
time, though it came out at the inquest
that five years ago her sex was revealed
to a country hospital staff. Nobody
knows why she suicided, or if anybody
does he didn’t tell the coroner, and her —
er —de facto widower maintained that
their association was a happy one. She’s
not by any means the first woman to take
apparel ahd do man’s work in the
bush, and she might have continued the
masquerade for many more years if things
hadn’t become too much for her.
* * * *
“Karrimba”: A grimly humorous side-
light on the Bismarck Sea battle was re-
lated to me by a N.G. missionary. Shortly
after the battle he was approached by
several small piccaninnies who insisted
that he follow them up the track to the
mountains. He did so, and was amazed
and not a little shocked to find two Jap
officers, a major and a loot, strung up
by their belts on trees. The kids asserted
that they had found the two in the jungle
and recognised them as “Japan man, no
good.” By throwing dirt, stones and
sticks they so tormented the wretched
survivors that after a couple of hours
the exhausted Nips apparently decided
they had lost enough “face” at the hands
of children. Unarmed, and lacking the
conventional implements of hara-kiri,
they hanged themselves with their belts.
*** * .
“5 G.R.”: Our country racecourse had
just been “wired” for broadcasting. The
early afternoon was fine and the horses
for the first three races went to the post
more or less on time, the broadcaster
on the top of a ladder doing his stuff in
grand -style. Heavy squalls swept over the
course as the principal race was due to
start, and the broadcaster could just
discern shadowy horses turning their tails
to the storm as it lashed the course.
“Come on down,” a friendly voice said.
“They won’t start in this.” In the bar
a few minutes later he was told the race
was over. Rushing to his microphone he
gave a broadcast of the event; a very
vivid account, too, but some nark in a
racing club timed him and found that the
mile must have been run in one minute
three seconds.
* * * *
“Ramac”: I cannot lay claim to being
an expert on the preparation of snails for
the table (B. l/10/.’47), but having cap-
tured, cooked and consumed large
quantities of the loathsome things I regret
1 did not know of that aperient angle at
the time. At Haisho, armed with tin and
“slug-snatcher” (a short stick with a
wire noose at one end), we would rise
before the sun, go to the fence of our
cage and with great care and dexterity
reach through small gaps in the wire to
drag in midget shellbacks grazing in the
lush grass—for a good reason grass would
not grow inside the A certain
amount of excitement could be derived
from the thought that every strand of wire
carried a lethal kick of electric current.
After many hours at the chase we would
retire to our private kitchens, remove the
infant from its home, soak in salt water
until a good deal of the slime could be
skimmed off, then boil. They were the
nearest thing to soil I have ever tasted.
At any time I would have traded my
snails for a mouthful of Bungaree red-
loam.
“Barkly”: The morning Paddy awoke
to find his private rice hoard missing he
began a season of moaning that threat-
ened to go on for ever. A moaning man
is rotten company in a prison camp, but
we appreciated his feelings and gave him
our sympathy. After a week’s wingeing
he suddenly found time to notice that a
fellow sleeping near him was putting on
weight. Paddy made inquiries at the
cookhouse, and, sure enough, the suspect
was having rice cooked every day. A
swoop search was made and Paddy’s
gunny-sack was discovered in the thief’s
blankets. After the villain had been
punished Paddy grew more disconsolate —
silently so. Then he rushed to the R.A.P.
and informed the Doc. that his stolen
rice had been dosed with powdered glass.
This information was passed on to the
thief. The dire tidings drew a grin.
“That’s 0.K.,” he said. “I saw Paddy
grinding the glass one night, worked out
what it was for, and, while he was away,
I tipped out the glass and filled the tin
with salt. But 1 say, Paddy, how were
you going to get the glass out of the
rice?” “Strewth,” said Paddy. “I hadn’t
thought of eating it. At 10 yen a kilo, I
was going to sell it. I didn’t want
some blankard to pinch it!”
* * * *
“Col M.”; Travellers coming south
arrived at Hawkesbury River station
(N.S.W.) in a coma after being battered
by the horsehair seats for many hours.
All they wanted from that station was a
moment of quietness ; what they received
was “FRESH HAWKESBURY RIVER
OYSTERS!!!” bellowed in a dozen
different keys. That has changed now,
and since competition has crept in, the
oyster-vendors have become masters of
applied psychology. The paper-boys now
do the shrieking. They bawl the headlines
through train windows, let the traveller
hear the city’s worst, and, with swiftness
that is callous, make him realise that his
holiday is over. Quiet sympathy comes
from the oyster-men, and they murmur
their lines in tones as soft as the oyster’s
own, which could never provoke a
traveller to leap out and bolt, bag in hand,
back up along the railway track. As the
train pulled out I noted that the paper-
sellers were hoarse now and still with
heavy bundles the oyster-men were
counting coins in the bottom of their
empty baskets.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Gelignite is unpre-
dictable stuff. It will respond to a con-
cussion much less severe than that
generated by a detonator. A rifle bullet
will detonate it, provided it is held against
a firm background. And it is dangerous
when frozen, because the nitro-glycerine
forms crystals which will explode if
rubbed sharply together. A mate of mine
in the Western Desert —a loot in the
engineers—smiled at the sensationalism
of an army instruction which said gun-
cotton could beicarried safely only when
it possessed a given percentage of mois-
ture, A stray piece of shrapnel, which
should have been harmless, penetrated a
box containing g.c. whose moisture con-
tent the loot had permitted to drop. He
was near it at the time, and the authori-
ties wrote «a touching letter to his next-
of-kin.
* * * *
“North by North”: As resourceful as
their pioneer mothers, bushwomen of
the present era face up to things that
would send many city-bred sisters into
hysterics. With no man about the place
—all were out mustering—Mrs. Charlie
Wallace, of Butcher’s Hill station, 80-odd
miles north of Cooktown, and as lonely
as the middle of the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, didn’t wait for advice or assistance
when her only companion, an aged black-
fellow, breathed his last at his tribal
camping grounds. Instead she got a
shovel, dug a grave that wild dogs
wouldn’t have a chance of redigging,
wrapped the old warrior up in a make-
shift shroud, read the burial service and
sent him on his last long journey in
“proper”-white-man style. Then she sat
down and wrote a report to the police
at Cooktown.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; I read that history was
made on September 19 when 91 cells in
Bathurst jail were equipped with radio
receivers. Actually cell radios have been
common for years. Known as “jiggers”
by the “crims,” the miniature crystal sets
were ingenious gadgets made from
scraps scrounged from the workshops,
bartered or thieved from fellow-boarders.
They were small enough to be hidden—
though in recent years “screws” didn’t
look very hard for them. My first know-
ledge that radio had entered prisons came
when, a member of a building gang, I
heard prisoners in Parramatta jail dis-
cussing the nightly programme. A little
later two “crims” informed me that
“Musso’s chucked it up; it came over the
10 o’clock news.” Next day I chanced
upon a lag, his head resting on his
hand, poring over a Bible. Between
the pages two pieces of metal tooth-
paste tube were placed ; a wire attached
to each led to the receiver and set
combined—a disc small enough to be
concealed in the hand. Should an in-
quisitive “screw” arrive the Bible
student had merely to whisk the gadgets
into a pocket to become a reformed
character improving his soul. Remark-
ing on the cleverness of men who could
make such sets, I got a fitting answer.
“Yes, they’re clever all right—they’ll
tell you how clever they are and what
mugs the coppers are. But the mug
coppers are outside and they’re in
here! ”
EVATT’S BOOK.
“Referring to the Bank Bill, Mr. Menzies pointed
out that in ‘The King and the Dominion Governors,’
by Dr. Evatt, it was contended that public approval
should be obtained for vital Constitutional changes.”
“O that mine enemy had written a book,”
Said Job three thousand years and more ago.
But such may well have been a task that took
Considerable effort then, you know,
And from the context it seems safe to add
The patriarch’s opponent never had.
How luckier the member who can quote
Against his adversary in debate
Some passage that the other fellow wrote—
Or in this case his trusty section-mate,
As damning comment upon what the two
Have since determined that they mean to do.
Litem scripta, says some Latin bard,
Manet; that is, the written word endures.
A spoken sentiment it isn’t hard
To disavow as not being really yours,
While printed ones unfortunately stay
And can’t be brushed so readily away.
“The King 1 and the Dominion Governors”!
Did Chiliey ever take it from the shelf,
I wonder, or some library’s dusty drawers
(A job I’ve never yet essayed myself)
To seek if any precedent could be
Found against making Bill McKell G.-G.?
Who knows? Assuming, in the stress and strain
Of office, Ben has found no time to look
Into this child of Evatt’s teeming brain,
Someone should surely forward him the book,
With the same passage Menzies has in mind
Lightly, but not too lightly, underlined.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Zake”: Those who pin their faith
to the cockatoo as a “watchdog” will be
sadly disillusioned by the ease with which
thieves who broke into a Darlington
(Sydney) house silenced the screeching
bird—they simply tossed over it a
blanket which they then wrapped around
the helpless bird. That they didn’t
simply knoc|c cocky on the bean proves
that even a burglar may have his finer
feelings. It recalls the consideration
shown to a sulphur-crested cocky owned
by my Uncle Claude. Alone in the house
when the burglars broke in, Screecher
intelligently picked the telephone receiver
off the hook and started yelling into the
transmitter “Police! Police!” While
one burglar whipped a leather strap
around his neck and fastened him to the
chair with it the other one, apparently a
fastidious fellow, stopped the consequent
flow of abusive language with one of
Uncle’s ties, tied around his beak. When
Uncle Claude returned to the ransacked
house he immediately started releasing
his pet. As he finished untying the beak
gag Screecher took a deep breath, bent
a malevolent look on Uncle and roared
“Never mind the tie, idiot. Get this
bloody collar off —it’s nearly choking
me!”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: My city, being Australia’s
largest, naturally has a most efficient
police force. Under the supervision of
a Mr. Mac Kay, who is as relentless in en-
forcing the Liquor Act against Diggers’
social clubs as he was in tracking down
the killer of the Pyjama Girl (after ten
years and an expenditure of £70,000, he
caught up with the slayer, a hat-waiter
in his favorite food-joint, Banana’s, who
had taken his cady in custody hundreds
of times), it is equipped with wire-
less cars, riot squads, flying squads,
police dogs, fingerprint and ballistics
experts, laboratories and all the other
appurtenances of modern law-enforce-
ment. Therefore, when a simple
fellow armed with a cowbell appeared
among the homing crowds, sounded his
"I've left some nice soapsuds in the bath for you!"
tocsin and informed all and sundry
that “There’ll be no fight at Sydney
Stadium tonight,”'it only awaited a com-
plaint to turn the whole battery of radio
cars, riot squads, laboratories and so
forth on his trail. The complaint
arrived. Forth went the police cars,
The offender wasn’t there. But with bell
a j^ d voice he Wasn’t far away. Police
, . -iv-• _ c f rpP t ” All WAS calm,
raced to King-Street. .
Then came the alarm from Philhp-street,
and again the cars “raced to the scene.
d —f rom wireless cars to ballistics,
the bell-ringer had “eluded” aU,
*** , *
“Ex-C.G.”: Low and fervent curses
must have echoed in the innermost re-
cesses of the North Melbourne branch
of the National Bank when a team of
safe-busters, after burning their way
through nearly 2in. of steel, a mass of
fireproof material and the inch-thick bars
of a vault grille with acetylene torches,
had the gas supply peter out when
within a fraction of cutting through the
final barrier between them and £45,000
in the vault. Still, perhaps they deserved
to f ad “Labor” has found a much
simpler way to get control of money in
banks in the intervals of seeing the world
buckshee.
* * * *
“McN.”: This business of Sydney’s
official ratcatchers objecting to being
described as such (B. 15/10/’47) reminds
me of an advertisement offering jobs for
“willy-house workers,” which prompted
a man with a thirst for information to
ask what a willy-house worker was i
have never seen an answer. It also re-
minds me of the somewhat uppish son of
a san jt a ry man in our western N.S.W.
town w h 0? on g o i ng to take up a scholar-
shjp at a ’ c j t y co llege, was questioned as
tQ hj s pa ’ s occupation. He replied, with
a p rom ptitude suggesting that he’d given
the matte r deep thought, that his pro-
genitor was a “practitioner in domestic
hygiene,”
* * * *
“Abi Tonus” (Papua): Paludrine was
at first hailed with delight by most tropi-
ca j residents, but they are not so enthusi-
astjc now t Quite a lot of people started
to f a h off in general wellbeing after
taking the stuff, and the sale of patent
medicines rose sharply. Only a few
blamed the paludrine; the others soon
re alised that the daily dose of quinine,
apart f rom its undoubted value in sup-
pressjng ordinary malarial attacks, and
its pract i ca i certainty in preventing cere-
bral malaria and blackwater fever, also
has an exce u en t tonic effect, which was
they were missing,
* * * *
“p a b D.”: Sinks, who, for 25 years,
bas given meek and faithful service to
bis wife and the firm which employs him,
j s a little worried about N. S. Wales
Attorney-General Martin’s proposed bill
decreeing that husband and wife are each
entitled to half of any savings from the
housekeeping money—as if there were any
t b ese days! Under existing legislation
ad suc b savings are the legal property of
the husband—apparently despite the
so i em n “with all my worldly goods I
t h ee endow” of the marriage ceremony
_but it is not the possibility of having
to hand out any coin that is worrying
jh n ks. His problem is very different. “It
see ms,” he told me almost hopefully,
“ t h a t under the new law I will actually
have a right to some of our money. But
w h a t has me worried is how to convince
m y wife of that and get her to hand it
over.”
• * . * * „ 7 „ e
“Melbn’ : A war-time sensation was
revived in Melbourne when a corre-
spondent suggested that the time
was due for the Commonwealth
Bank to restore the swastika to its scheme
of decoration. The furore arose while
Hitler was trampling over Europe, some-
body having observed that the Nazi
emblem was worked into the design of the
carpet which covers the institution’s vast
foyer. Nobody had noticed it before,
though thousands had put their hoofs
upon it. xt was suggested that the
symbol be retained and that it be
the pious duty of every citizen to tread it
underfoot at least once daily, thus con-
“I could have sworn I had a sixpence somewhere !”
tributing to the downfall of Adolf; but
the bank decided to remove the
swastika, replacing it with squares. It
now turns out that the thing was quite
accidental. The design was actually the
Greek key pattern, traditional in banking
circles. Where it turned a comer it
assumed the shape of a swastika. Any-
how, the swastika isn’t merely a Nazi
emblem. It has been found in remains of
the Bronze Age, in parts of Europe, in
India and Asia Minor and is still used
by the Pawnees of U.S.A.
J * * 1= ♦
“Coongan”: I was rather intrigued by
a “S.M. Herald” poster last week which
announced: —
SIX DEAD
IN FAMILY TRAGEDY
JOCKEY BREASLEY
APOLOGISES
The two events were, of course, quite
unconnected, but the effect was a little
startling, Mark Twain was the de-
lighted victim of a similar juxtaposi-
tion when an English news-poster an-
nounced in the same breath, as it were,
MARK TWAIN IN ENGLAND-
ASCOT GOLD CUP STOLEN.
* * * i'
“Hep-2-3-4” exercising an old proverb:
Mud-wallopers stationed in a New Britain
base camp also encountered strife when they
installed butter-box lowboys by their bunks
(B. 15/10/’47). They caught the idea from a
mob of Water Transport whose R.S.M. hap-
pened to be human—when their own sar’major
discovered the containers in each tent, camou-
flaged with photos of the battalion’s better
halves, he blew up in a manner which made
the mortar platoon’s pet missile look a com-
parative fizzer. The island had barely ceased
shaking when some brilliant type, misplaced in
the unit’s Intelligence Section, announced that
five-gallon petrol tins, with their lids cut off,
sunk into the earthen tent floor and concealed
with a cover, gave cupboard space limited only
by the disposition of the guard on the dump.
Seeing that the troops had troubled to provide
wooden squares on the floors “to give their
spare boots a chance to dry,” the R.S.M. was
full of praise and never bothered to look under-
neath. A veteran of the previous stoush tells
me that this counter-sunk idea was old stuff
even then, and that he kept a bottle of “turps
safe in one of them right through Gallipoli.
Yet I see in a home-furnishing journal, panting-
hot from an overseas press, that “the far-
future kitchen will have a series of cupboards
set in the floor with a lift-up principle—the
ultimate in modernity I”
* * * •
“Youanmi”: A Sydney “D.T.”
"columnist” has discovered that lan
Hamilton was one of the world’s worst
tipsters. The young man should read
The Friends of England, published in
1923, and then he may have the grace to
admit that he was wrong. That book is
full of penetrating judgments and almost
uncanny predictions. Of Germany :
“Sixty millions of efficient Europeans
will not kick the bucket without
kicking some other things over first. Ot
the Greeks: “They are the only Balkan
State which cares two pins about us.” Of
Czechoslovakia and its Sudetenland: It
is like some laborious silkworm into whose
body an ichneumon-fly has inserted its
deadly egg.” And I could quote other
extracts as good or better.
* * * *
“Ess”: When a unit moved into a new
area there was always a big demand for
wood to build tables, benches, mess huts
and so on. Scroungers became expert
at discovering broken-down and deserted
buildings. As the wood became scarcer
the soldier’s view of a deserted house
broadened. One enthusiastic party
brought back a great load of timber,
built a shed and was just standing back
admiring it when the owner arrived with
a couple of policemen, claiming that it
was his cow-bails. Another party selected
a likely looking empty house, went out
early one morning, pulled up outside the
front door and got to work. In next to
no time it had the verandah and the
front of the house in the truck. Then,
as another wall was pulled down, a bull-
like roar rent the air and a pyjama-clad
figure leapt from the bed in the room
which Strenuous endeavors had broken
open. That truck left the premises with
the speed of a rocket bomb.
♦ * * •
“Wusslean”: In a Melbourne daily’s
“Situations Vacant” column girls were
invited to “apply to the Forelady.” De-
lightfully genteel I suppose ; but I should
like to be around when someone asks
our six-foot, red-headed workshop boss if
he is the Foregentleman.
* * * *
“Mullum”: I wonder whether the
Commonwealth Railways have any new
engines on the Larrimah-Darwin run
yet. When I first travelled on that line
towards the end of 1941 I was impressed
to see the fireman, at one halt, using a
piece of wire to replace' a bolt which had
apparently fallen out along the track.
A number of us saw the “repair job
done, and agreed that the train crew
were doing a great job with broken-down
engines. Coming back 18 months later
I saw the same fireman do the same job
on the same engine—and the same bolt-
hole. It could have been a coincidence,
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”; Sydney larrikins are a
vicious, cowardly mob. Cutting down a
side street through one of the city’s least-
salubrious suburbs the other night I was
bailed up by two young larrikins smelling
strongly of drink. “Got the price of a
feed, bloke?” one of them asked. I told
him I hadn’t and made to move on, but
he immediately let fly a stream of pro-
fanity and accompanied it with a swing
at my face, catching me a glancing blow
on the eye. I weigh 200 lb. and am not
yet senile and, by a combination of luck
and instinct, managed to hit the lout fair
in the teeth with a solid right. It was
a hard punch, with fear and anger be-
hind it, and it knocked him down, if not
out, and inspired his gallant comrade to
bolt from the scene. The man on the
ground scrambled to his feet and did like-
wise and, even though I still have a
bruise beside my eye, I can’t help smil-
ing at his parting shot: “Arr, y’re just a
bloody bash artist.”
% * * *
“K.H.”: In an Adelaide sauce factory
a newcomer produced a packet of
cigarettes and offered them round. There
were no takers, but plenty of suspicious
looks. “What’s wrong with them?
asked one of the men. ‘ Nothing at all.
replied the owner as he pulled one from
the packet and lit it. Finally, one man
plucked up courage to accept the oner.
“You can toss one over here, mate, he
said. “I’ll risk it.” This led to the com-
plete distribution of the smokes, but even
then some hesitated before lighting up
examining and even smelling them or
glancing around to see what effect the
fumes may have had upon others. Later
on the man was asked why he had given
away the cigarettes. “Oh, was the
reply, “it was just a little experiment.
I’m doing a part-time course in
psychology and I just wanted to see how
the fellows would react.”
HAPPY AS LARRY.
“According to General Sturdee, Chief of the
Australian General Staff, Australian troops m Japan
are as ‘happy as Larry’ and would find demobilisation
a hardship.”
Our troops who’re away there
According to plan
A A s TsVs o ,he a /«n re
Each Tom, Dick and Harry
Would willingly tarry,
For they’re happy as Larry,
Our chaps m Japan.
No job could be tougher
In anyone’s views
b *nd er Te,w S
Or T vlinly A engagfng ’
In plans for assuaging
Mahometans’ raging
’Gainst Sikhs and Hindoos.
But no such annoyance
Can give them the pips
Or darken the buoyance
o.“ffr.RSs
For quelling disorders
In bounds and in borders
Assigned to the Nips,
_ , ,
Th H anv rf P thosc r DlBSer ’
Traditional figures
Employed to disclose
Bliss shining and starry
ButS who'“Surry?
And nobody knows.
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


5634 D-10.47
A
D
>S
Cocker Spaniel
•‘TALISMAN
OF TROY”
A clear red and
white dog. It is
claimed that he
has won more first
prizes than
any other
Cocker Span-
iel of his
colour in
A ustralia.
A WHHW6
i
tobacco
FINiCU]
ready
CHAMPION
READY RUBBED TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the Pipe.
UNDER MEDICAL BENEFITS FUND
diced
UctH
sct^
& wn\
..
gar
YOU CHOOSE YOUR OWN DOCTOR
As a contributor you may go for treat-
ment to your own or any doctor you
may choose. Under the Medical Bene-
fits Fund your doctor is not selected
for you,
YOUR SAVINGS ARE PROTECTED
Regular small contributions to the
Medical Benefits Fund enable you to
budget for your own and your family's
medical care all out of your regular
income by ensuring substantial help
in meeting the costs of medical and
surgical treatment.
ALL DEPENDANTS ARE COVERED
Each member of the contributor's family,
himself, wife, and children under the
age of 17 years, registered with the
fund as dependants, would be entitled
to benefits in a membership year.
NO INCOME LIMIT FOR MEMBERSHIP
Membership is available to persons
under the age of 65 years regardless
of income. Whether you are single
or married the Medical Benefits Fund
assures you of financial protection
against unexpected medical expenses.
MEDICAL
BENEFITS
FUND
banishes the
fear of
emergency
Medical Expenses
, FHL IN AND POST TO-DAY —*j
I Medical Benefits Fund oi N.S.W. Ltd..
: 7 Hamilton Street. Sydney.
Please send me without obligation
full details of
THE MEDICAL BENEFITS FUND
I Name . I
I Address . I
I B. <>9./ 10/’47 I
MEDICAL BENEFITS FUND
OF N.S.W. LTD. 7 HAMILTON ST.. SYDNEY. Telephone: 8U5951
. SPONSORED BY THE
MEDICAL PROFESSION
ẅ
MANAGED BY THE
HOSPITALS CONTRIBUTION
FUND OF N.S.W.
THE SERVICE MAN
Mr. Chambers on Wars.
“Ek Dum”: The dentist who has thd
Army portfolio has told Parliament that
Field-Marshal Montgomery, when in
Australia, said he saw no prospect of
another war for 10 years and believed
the present strength of the Australian
“Army” sufficient.
What Montgomery really said was that
he did not think that any nation would
be equipped and ready for modern war
for 10 years, and in any case the Field-
Marshal is in a “minority of one.”
While nearly all authorities are ready
to concede that the Allies of the last
war, with one exception, would take 10
years to get back into a warlike stride,
they certainly do not rule out the chances
of a war.
In fact, Europe feels that it is living
on the edge of war, and Mr. Chambers's
definite assertion that there are “no
rumblings of a new war,” if made in
any continent but his own, would lead to
his being dismissed from office.
On the borders of Greece there is
"Beg pardon. Sir, the last boat's casting off."
actual war, with massed Yugoslav and
Bulgarian troops at strategic points.
In India there are rumblings of war
and actual bloodshed. In China there is
actual war, which is gradually develop-
ing towards an attempt by the Russians
to Sovietise China.
In Turkey there are rumblings of war.
Under direct Russian threats, the Turkish
Army is constantly partly-mobilised, and
there are known to be large numbers of
Russian troops grouped in fighting forma-
tions on the Kars-Ardahan border.
In Korea there are 500,000 Russian-
trained troops. In every country there
are “Communist parties.”
In Indonesia, there has been actual
war within the past few months —a war
in which the Australian Government has
sided against a friendly white race at the
behest of Communist uniop leaders.
Russian MethocEs
According to Mr. Chambers Field-
Marshal Montgomery believes that
Russia’s industrial position is such as to
render it incapable of war for many*
years. In point of fact Russia is carrying
on war in Australia itself and inside the
Minister’s own party.
What Field-Marshal Montgomery im-
plied was that Russia would not be cap-
able of modern war for 10 years, though
how he obtained his information it is
difficult to imagine. What he did not say,
but what he knew very well, was that
Russia is now quite capable of the kind
of war which she fought in 1944—that
is, a war in which an unlimited quantity
of manpower is pitted against a limited
amount, regardless of the slaughter, and
rolls over the lesser battalions by sheer
weight of numbers.
The Germans were not pushed back by
the Russian Army in 1943-44. They were
rolled out by endless-moving masses of
gun-fodder after they had fallen ex-
hausted with killing and had expended
their ammunition.
The Russian principle in waging a
“democratic” war is that, so long as you
win, it doesn’t matter how many demo-
crats are killed in the process. There are
plenty more where they came from.
At any moment, Russia might very
well start rolling, better equipped than
last time, because the Kremlin now has
at its disposal large numbers of German
slave scientists, about whose fate no word
is ever said by those prophets of scien-
tific liberty who flourish in the Aus-
tralian Association of Scientific Workers,
and who shed tears about the fate of
Dr. Nunn May.
The subject of kidnapped German and
other scientific workers —those of the
little Baltic States in particular—who are
being used by Russia to build up the
Soviet Union war potential should be
given some attention by advocates of
freedom for scientists to propagate their
discoveries or hand over defence secrets
to the Kremlin without inconvenient
interruption by the law.
Most peoplef with any commonsense
would agree with Mr. Rankin that Mr.
Chambers’s Army is inadequate for Aus-
tralian defence. They would also agree
that any man who talks as Mr. Chambers
talks is unfit to be in charge of a defence
department or any other department.
Mr. Chambers’s Sheltered Army
Apart from anything else, however,
Mr. Chambers is determined that he will
maintain only a small army; small and
select and not to be associated in the
public mind with the vulgar, brawling
fellows who were in Mr. Forde’s Army
—quite a different kettle of fish.
Some of these Forde Fusiliers fought,
but' Mr. Chambers will have none of
that in his Army, and all who thus dis-
graced themselves must at least appear
reformed characters if they are not.
Therefore no wound stripes or chev-
rons will be allowed to appear on the
neat, clean uniforms of his warriors, as
evidence of a quarrelsome past. The
only insignia Chambers’s Own will be
allowed to sport are such as relate to ser-
vice in their own formation.
It is a very necessary step, from his
viewpoint, and if he did not take it his
soldiery might get the impression that it
•is intended at some time to make them
indulge in war. As things are, recruiting
advertisements and Ministerial announce-
ments have given the impression that
in the forces now is a lovely,
leisurely, highly paid and gentlemanly
occupation in which one prepares for a
hew civilian life, to be entered upon after
a few delightful years of recreation spent
it the expense of Mr. Chambers.
Two New Aircraft-Carriers.
I“Ek Dum”: There appears to be some
aystery about the Australian aircraft-
arriers which were supposedly xo be con-
tructed for us in England especially for
Commonwealth defence, in consonance
fith the plans laid before Parliament last
une.
It could be expected that each of these
yfessels would take a year to two years to
build.
Work on the two ships seemed to pro-
ceed with such remarkable celerity that


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE ALFRED DOYLE. —TAKE NOTICE
that MONA BEATRICE DOYLE has filed a Petition
for Divorce Ho. 3813 of 1947 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 23rd day of December 1947 and
obtain a copy of the petition free of charge from
WALTER B. DONNELLY, Solicitor, of Mudgee, or
ROBERT LLOYD, Solicitor, 8a Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURTAGE NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM STUART REID late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that VIOLET ROSANNE REID has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1878 of 1947 upon the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse-
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 23rd day
of January 1948 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from NORMAN V. STEWART, Soli-
citor, Yorkshire House, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar, in Divorce.
‘Welcome to New York—
now we can really do business!’
33258
a
u
6
cr<
TO-DAY more and more business men are using the
Speedbird service. Commerce has been given a new
power: to send the right man to the right place—and to
have him back at his desk within the week.
Every year 8.0.A.C. carries 150,000 passengers on 72,000
miles of routes. These passengers are flown by 8.0.A.C.
pilots, of whom too have over a million miles’ experience
each. Men who have learned how in the 28 years of
B O.A.C.’s flying experience. With its associated air lines,
8.0.A.C. links together Britain, Australia and New Zealand,
Middle East, India, the Far East, the African Continent,
Canada and the U.S.A.
Australian Representative: Shell House, Carrington Street, Sydney.
General Agents: Qantas Empire Airways, Sydney. Melbourne, Brisbane.
Townsville, Cairns, Port Moresby, Lae, Rabaul, Darwin,
Booking Agents in all cities.
IT’S A SMALL WORLD BY SPEEDBIRD
Q.E.A. the Flying-boat service
between Australia and Singapore, and
the Lancastrian service between Australia
and Karachi. T.E.A.L. operate the
service from Australia to New Zealand .
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN ASSOC. WITH QANTAS EMPIRE
AIRWAYS, SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
22/A U
BO AC
MAKE
YOUR OWN
ROOF TILES
MAKES 400 to 600 PER DAY
As Demonstrated at Royal Show
AUSTRAL OTIS ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
85 HANNA STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
within a couple of months of the an-
nouncement the Commonwealth Govern-
ment was engaged in a highly expensive
advertising campaign designed to attract
recruits for the naval air force —most of
these advertisements in Sydney dailies
were worth £lOO a time.
Up to October 4 three weeks’ hard
advertising had brought inquiries from
756 officers, 1470 rating pilots, 420 air
artificers, 378 skilled mechanics and 1176
naval airmen.
It is now announced that one of the
two carriers may be H.M.S. Terrible,
“launched some time ago, though work
was suspended on her.” She is now being
fitted for tropical conditions.
She is a sister ship to Glory, which was
here with Rear-Admiral Creasy’s squad-
ron and which took part in squadron ex-
ercises off the Australian coast in con-
junction with the R.A.N.
There is great uneasiness in knowledg-
able circles about the purchase of these
ships. At best they have a value as escort
vessels.
Even in the last stages of World War
II the days of the aircraft-carrier were
numbered. The writer was told by
one of the most experienced of Royal
Naval air admirals that the day was in
sight when the long-distance capacity of
aircraft would make carriers unnecessary.
Newer developments still suggest that
the Commonwealth’s latest purchases
may become liabilities. New types of
submarines with the speed of destroyers
will put a new complication in sea
war. So will the post-war developments
of radar and high-speed rocket weapons
launchable from aircraft, which —like the
fast subs.—are well on the way.
Only last week off the Scilly Islands
R.A.F. Mosquitoes launched at 36,000
feet model rocket aircraft which are be-
lieved to have reached supersonic speeds
approaching 800 m.p.h.
The present Commonwealth Govern-
ment has always had an obsession for
aerial warfare, the reason being the same
as that which predisposes it towards
“push-button” conceptions of fighting. It
chooses to believe that air methods of
defence call for only a handful of man-
power, thus relieving it of the political
embarrassments incidental to compulsory
training.
It actually proposed in 1942 (amid a
gale of laughter) to attack Japan directly
with small squadrons in which the one
or two capital ships were to be light and
obsolescent aircraft-carriers, which would
not have lasted five minutes if they had
met a heavy cruiser or a battleship in
rough weather or at night, when they
could not have got their aircraft off then-
decks.
Light aircraft-carriers certainly have
their uses in present conditions, but only
as a component of forces in which there
are major battle units. Their weaknesses
when equipped with fast aircraft even
in peace-time were illustrated by the dis-
astrous accidents and loss of life which
took place during simple manoeuvres
when the R.N. Squadron visited Australia
earlier in the year. »
An inquiry into these “Labor” defence
plans, undertaken by men whose experi-
ence and impartiality cannot be ques-
tioned, is needed very badly.
Canada's Defences.
“Ek Dum”: A White Paper issued by
Mr. Brooke Claxton, the Canadian
Minister for Defence, who was recently
in Australia, deals with Canada’s war
effort and with its present defence scheme.
Canada called up more than a million
men during the war and —unlike Aus-
tralia, which called up tens of thousands
whom it had not the remotest chance of
using except to occupy camps and admire
the sky—it used them all very effectively.
Including naval men who crossed the
Atlantic “under their own steam,”
Canada sent 349,624 men to serve in
Europe, apart from 60,000 airmen from
the U.K., Australia and N.Z. who were
trained on Canadian fields, largely with
Canadian-built aircraft.
Canada undertook the almost entire
defence of the Arctic route from America
to Britain for a considerable stage in the
crucial years of the war. And though
25 per cent, of Canadian farmers served
in the armed forces, the Dominion in-
creased its annual food production by
40 per cent, over 1939 in order to help
feed the Allies.
Its gifts of money and war material to
co-partners in the British Commonwealth
seem, from the summary available, to
have been modestly ignored or mentioned
only unobtrusively, but they are never-
theless gratefully remembered.
Judged on a population standard —
Canada’s population was 12,582,000 on
June 1, and has increased by nine per
cent, since the last census taken in 1941
—Canada’s present defence scheme looks
even more limited than Australia’s. This,
however, is only a surface appearance.
When closely examined its plan is effec-
tive and serviceable except in one respect,
i.e., that while its cadre training provides
for the most intensive instruction with
modern equipment on the best and most
modern scale, any training for large-
scale war which does not provide the
trainee-officers with large bodies of troops
to handle has a very definite weakness.
Canada’s defence organisation has, like
Australia’s, been moulded to the super-
ficial pattern of Britain’s. Post-war plans
have tended to integrate the three services
more closely, and more attention is given
to higher-grade officer training. Aus-
tralians who visit Kingston Military
College feel ashamed when they recall
the miserable facilities with which the
ardent commandant at Duntroon is made
to do. To the fine Canadian R.M.C., a
National Defence College has been
added, opposite number for Camberley
and Greenwich.
The basic Canadian land force pro-
vided in regular service for all purposes
is only 33,000, and the strength of the
“Army” will be no more than a brigade.
However, a real effort is being made
(which is not being made here) to render
the defence forces attractive to men of
outstanding ability. Special encourage-
ment is given to top-notch university men
to serve as officers. The scheme looks
thprough and effective as far as it goes,
and feasible on the estimates provided,
which the Australian scheme is not on
the money ladled out by the Chifleys
along with a huge dose of advertise-
ment.
One fact must be remembered in con-
nection with Canadian defence. The
stress upon it, despite the huge forces
sent abroad, is largely naval and indus-
trial. The services performed by the
Royal Canadian Navy last war, in their
own ships, were truly remarkable, and
the policy for the future is likely to be
built on the success of the World War II
plan, which earned praise in every
quarter.
On the industrial side Canada’s war
potential is that of a great Power. Be-
hind the modest-looking surface mani-
festations of her peace-time defence
effort there is no a vast and intri-
cate scheme connected with metal supply,
ship - building, aircraft - building, air
training and particularly features associ-
ated with atom-bomb production, which
are (he reality of the Canadian protec-
tive measures.
These affect the security of the whole
British Commonwealth and the Ameri-
can continent.
“Ek Dum”: Dead last week, a
Canadian is acclaimed as the man
who “adapted an old French, tune
to create ‘Mademoiselle from Armen-
tieres.’ ” A generation or two be-
fore the supposed adaptor from
the French was born the air, almost eX?
actly as it is was sung by the soldiery,
was current in ships bound for Australia
to those good old French words:
O landlord have you any good wine?—skiboo!
O landlord have you any good wine? —skiboo!
0 landlord have you any good wine,
That’s fit for a mate of Blackball Line?
Skiboo, skiboo, skiboski, O skiboo.
And I think Frobisher’s men probably
sang it before the Blackballed. I heard
somebody yelling something very like it
among Glasgow’s Light Horsemen —that
proud and heady regiment—in the very
beginning of things and long before an
Australian soldier had seen France. And
1 am inclined to believe that the Canadian
composer must have camped near some
Anzacs before he had his inspiration and
that Mademoiselle was merely the land-
lord’s “daughter fair” grown up. This
belief is strengthened by the fact that
round 1913 there was a song about a
certain “butcher of Grindlebar whose
noble name was Block,” of which the
chorus had the “inky, pinky” of the
“Mademoiselle” well developed in it.


WHEN IT’S AN
v /
/
MORE CARS ARE FITTED WITH EXIDE
THAN ANY OTHER BATTERY
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. f LTD., 44 BRIDGE ST.. SYDNEY
X 1.24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
Rev, Lionel B. Fletcher, at 70 still able
to pack a church almost anywhere, is the
son of John Fletcher, who was a head-
master in many N.S.W. schools and is
youngest of a family of seven boys and
one girl. Three of the boys, besides
Lionel, became ministers and the other
three local preachers. Lionel went
to England as a cabin boy in
a sailing ship, came back as a
steward in steam and, after engaging
in mining and journalism, joined the
Congregational Church. After charges
in Campbelltown, Kurri Kurri, Port
Adelaide, Cardiff (Wales) and New
Zealand he became one of the Empire’s
leading evangelists. A natural yarn-
spinner, he can make his audience laugh
and cry in almost the same breath. He
maintains that no man should take Holy
Orders without first-hand practical ex-
perience of the world. His ideal is a
theological college at which, after doing
two or three years’ study, the students are
turned out to work their way round the
world for 12 months and then return to
finish off their training. He says that
possibly 75 per cent, would not return to
the ministry, but those who did would be
top-notchers; the others would never
have been any good anyhow. It is told of
Fletcher in Charters Towers (Q.) that
he was' keen to get the children of certain
miners christened, and the bully of the
place said “Any Bible-thumper who wants
to christen my kids will have to lick their
dad first.” Fletcher replied “Give me
three weeks to train and I’ll do that.” He
did, too, the kids were christened and
Dad became a regular church-goer.
Don Edwards, who will edit the seventh
annual anthology of Australian short
stories, Cbast to Coast, published by
Angus and Robertson, has been a Bulle-
tin contributor since the early ’thirties.
Born in Sydney 42 years ago, the son of
a schoolteacher, Edwards went teaching
after leaving Sydney University with a
B.A. and Dip. Ed. He taught at various
high schools, among them Canberra High
and Hurlstone Agricultural High, and is
now teaching English at Sydney High.
Edwards’s first Bulletin story was called
“Programme,” and his “He Walks Home
with His Wife” was 1 a runner-up in a
Bulletin competition. Best of his yarns
were republished in the collection High
Hill at Midnight, and “S.M. Herald”
recently serialised his novel The Woman
at Jingera. Australasian Publishing Co.
will shortly put out Don’s Adventures of
Jan and Jennifer, a delightful story for
children, also a “S.M.H.” serial.
Bulli Shire (N.S.W.) wants the Govern-
ment to recommend its shire clerk, W. H.
Mitchell, for a decoration, and he deserves
one. Mitchell, an Old Digger, was one
of the busiest men on the N.S.W. South
Coast during the late war. In addition to
his ordinary shire duties he organised
the N.E.S. and the Comforts Fund, got in
thousands of pounds as the shire Patriotic
Fund’s first secretary, was one of the
recruiting committee of three wheif enlist-
ments were needed, was Town Major,
directed billeting arrangements for troops
when a Jap attack was expected, ran the
First War Loan committee and was in-
structor in rescue work, gas defence and
so forth. Then, having “sewn up” the
shire’s civilian services, he joined the
R.A.A.F. and put in three years with it.
Now he’s chairman of Buffi’s Coalfields
Amenities Committee.
A visitor to the Antique Silver exhibi-
tion at the Melbourne Town Hall who
viewed the show with more than casual
interest was John Henry Coustar, of
Croydon (Vic.), who belongs to that
almost vanished race the craftsman who
served a long apprenticeship to a master,
lived and worked with him and
seldom left him. He was inden-
tured for seven years to Barnard’s,
of London, on four bob a week
and under a bond not to play cards or
dice, visit taverns or theatres or marry.
He was to become a member of the
Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths and
Silversmiths and a Freeman of the City
of London. There were articles in the
exhibition, particularly a copy of the
Warwick Vase, in which he could recog-
nise his own handiwork and there were
others which he could be quite certain
about —one was the Caulfield Cup of
1922, made when he first came to Mel-
bourne, These days he belongs to the
Corps of Commissionaires and sports the
ribbons of two world wars.
Changes at Sydney University:
The new Vice-Chancellor is S. H. Roberts,
Challis Professor of Modem History, author,
newspaper writer and radio speaker. Roberts,
now 46, 8.A., M.A., Litt.D. (Melbourne) and
D.Sc.Ec. (London), was little more than a
youth when he did a research job on modern
French history and life in France which earned
him the London degree. A few years later
he spent 20 months or so in Germany and
wrote The House that Hitler Built, which
ran into 12 editions and was translated into
eight languages. Chamberlain was among those
who read it, as is mentioned in the authorised
biography. Roberts succeeds Professor Robert
Wallace, the Aberdeen Scot who retired last
January after having been a lecturer at Aber-
deen, Professor of English Language and Litera-
ture at Melbourne, an A.I.F. soldier in 1917-19,
then Chief Commonwealth Film Censor, member
of A.8.C., and author of several books on Eng-
lish grammar and literature, all of which earned
him a knighthood in 1941.
About to retire is Professor F. A. Bland,
who has held the Chair of Public Administration
since it was created in 1935, and is a doughty
defender of the rights of public bodies and
local-government authorities against the onset
of State and Federal Governments. Bland is
Sydney-born, and in his 65 years has filled
tutorial positions in London, New York and
Sydney, and been an indefatigable putter-outer
of works on public administration in this
country. Nobody who has ever met Bland
expects him to vegetate in retirement. He is
followed by Professor P. H. Partridge, who is
accused of being “particularly interested in
the study of Australian politics” with interests
in legal theory, and political science and thought.
An Old Boy of Sydney’s Fort-street, Sydney
Uni. and London School of Economics, with
some experience at Oxford, Partridge handled
Moral and Political Philosophy at Sydney anti
Political Science at Melbourne. Presumably as
a form of relaxation he has under way a work
on the Pluralist Theory of the State.
For 50 years Sun Wing Wah has been
a figure at the Victoria Market, Mel-
bourne. It will know him no longer ;
with all his possessions bound up in
sacking the old Chinese is now going
back to the land of his ancestors. The
Yunnan bore him away.
Thomas Tuke Hollway, leader of the
Victorian Liberals, was only 26 when
Ballarat sent him to the Victorian
Assembly in 1932; he was at that time
the youngest Parliamentarian in Aus-
tralia, a graduate in Law and Arts of
Melbourne ’Varsity, and an excellent de-
bater with leanings towards a literary
career —in collaboration with Hugh Mont-
gomery he had published a book of
criticism of modern Verse. When Stanley
Argyle died in 1940 he became leader of
the Vic. U.A.P. and since then in the
confused political scene to which Vic-
torians have grown accustomed he has
been at various times Deputy Premier,
Minister for Public Instruction, Minister
for Labor, and Leader of the Opposition.
Ballarat was a doubtful seat when he first
won it; he has made it definitely his own.
HOLLWAY OF BALLARAT.
The Hollway who delivered his policy
speech at Ballarat last Thursday is a
slightly fleshier man than when Challen
sketched him a few years ago ; the only
other difference his audience noticed was
an increased measure of optimism and
confidence. Hollway has no doubt what-
ever that next month’s election will put
Cain’s men back on the Opposition
benches.
John Stanley Haddin, here sighted by
Prior imbibing his favorite beverage, has
retired from the managership of the
N.S.W. Camden Vale mjlk enterprises
after 27 years on that Menangle property.
A World War I Digger, Haddin made
HADDIN OF CAMDEN VALE.
the Camden Park venture a shining ex-
ample of what can be done when enter-
prise, energy, experience and education
are applied to dairyfarming. Under his
management, the place became a Mecca
for pilgrims from the cow-country seek-
ing advice on herd-building, fodder-con-
servation, pasture - improvement, staff
relationships and a score of other things.
Such is his nature that Haddin was never
too busy to give what help he could. His
influence on the practical side of milk
production in N.S.W. could scarcely be
overestimated, and there was good sense
behind the suggestion, made at a fare-
well dinner to “J. 5.,” that he should be
retained by the milk industry in an ad-
visory capacity. For his own part the
man intends to devote the first months
of his leisure to “seeing something of
Australia,” after which he’ll concentrate
on his properties, one at Canowindra in
the Belubula lucerne belt, the other on the
old Macarthur-Onslow lands at Camden.
The 1946 Natural History Medallion,
gift of J. K. Moir, Knight Grand Cheese
of the Bread and Cheese Club, Mel-
bourne, has been awarded to P. Crosbie
Morrison, M.Sc., editor of “Wild Life,”
for his work in increasing popular and
scientific knowledge of Australian flora
and fauna. First to receive the medallion,
in 1939, was Alec H. Chisholm, and it
has been awarded to David Fleay, C. P.
Mountford (S.A.), and Frederick Chap-
man.
Hubert Foster Clark, who conducts
the orchestra for the Ballet Rambert, at
present in full flight at the Princess,
Melbourne, has had an extraordinary
experience of the ballet business.
When Caryl Brahms’s thriller “Bullet
in the Ballet” toured Britain, he
went with it as conductor for Australia’s
old acquaintances Massine and the
Baronova. He was also responsible for
the arranging of the scores for the first
televised ballets “Swan Lake,” “Peter
and the Wolf,” “Plaisance and Facade.”
Madame Rambert and her corps were
the dancers. A major in the late war
in India and England, Clark studied con-
ducting at the Royal College of Music
under Sargent and in Germany, and was
conductor of the nucleus of the Halle
Orchestra at Manchester, He is now
a 8.8. C. conductor. At the Princess
he is waving his baton over a strong
combination ; the leader Sydney violinist
Lionel Lawson.
Harley Griffiths, winner of this year’s
McPhillamy Prize at the Geelong Art
Gallery, who put in a painting of his
studio, is a son of Harley Griffiths, one
of Max Meldrum’s earliest pupils. He
farms at Bayswater (Vic.), is a foundation
member of the Three A’s, and was a
pupil of A. D. Colquhoun. Some of
his father’s work is at Parliament House,
Canberra. The 30-guineas for a water-
color went to Eric Thake, of Melbourne.
Last year Daryl Lindsay, National
Gallery director, refused to make an
award on the ground that the work sub-
mitted was below par. This year the
judge was Robert Hains, his new assistant.
“Orion” on a flag:—
Everybody in the First A.I.F. knew that
George Murphy, O.C. 18th Battalion (B.
1/10/’47), owned an enormous Australian flag
which he had carried in his kit through
Gallipoli. It was a famous piece of bunting
and George could have wrapped it about
himself several times. After the Armistice I
had the means and the authority to go into
Germany and I invited George Murphy and
“Jimmy” James (24th Battalion) to share the
car. It was a large open car, and outside
Libge we cut a mighty long stick from a hedge
and, anchoring the foot of it under the back
of the front seat and leaning it on the folded-
back hood, we had about 10ft. of it sticking
out behind—and wanted it, too, to hold that
flag off the ground when halted. With this
glorious decoration fluttering in our wake we
drove to Cologne, saluted by the population at
each village as we passed. As we entered
Cologne a Tommy staff-captain warned us of
orders forbidding the flying of any Allied flags
lest the home Fritzies’ feelings should be hurt.
We thanked him for the information and were
about to drive on. “Well, take it down,” said
the staff-captain. “Not on your life,” said
George. “This flag has been all through the
war and it’s going to the Rhine.” And it did.
And next day, walking down the Hohe Strasse,
we ran into two sergeants of “Jimmy” James’s
battalion (quite illegally there). “Well, boys,”
said Jimmy, “enjoying your Brussels leave?”
Broad smiles. “Yes, sir; you see, when we
enlisted together we had a drink in Young and
Jackson’s and vowed that before we had
another we’d have one on the Rhine. We
have just done it, with full ceremony.”
After 40 years with the Savings Bank
of S.A., H. A. H. Neuenkirchen becomes
its general-manager, succeeding H. M.
Caire, whose ill-health got the better of
him. The new g.-m. has been connected
with the bank’s mortgage department and
administration ever since he joined it,
except for four years as manager of
Rundle-street branch. He was sub-
accountant in 1933, acting accountant
1938 and accountant in 1939.
Jim O’Brien, Minister of Marine and
Transport in Maoriland, dead at 72, was a
native of Forest Creek (Vic.). He crossed
the Tasman in 1904, settling on the West
Coast, where he was employed by the
Seddon Government in developing coal
seams. He was an engine-driver at the
State coalmine, Runanga, before enter-
ing politics. Standing against Tommy
Seddon, O’Brien found the mana of the
great Seddon’s name too powerful in
1919, but beat Seddon three years later.
His practical knowledge of working con-
ditions helped him as a Minister, and he
was extremely popular.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 46, Brian Clancy, K.C. Bom
at Coonamble (N.S.W.), he studied law at
Sydney University after his return from the
Kaiser’s war, in which he was wounded. Ad-
mitted to the Bar in 1923, he took silk in 1938,
was a member of Legacy and president of the
Sydney University sub-branch of R.S.L.
In Adelaide, at 78, Herbert Hayter, of the
S.A. Harbors Board, and President of the
Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers’
Association. Once a champion high diver and
swimmer, he was a member of the Port Adelaide
Sailing Club, Port Adelaide Football Club, and
served with the 43rd Battalion in World War I.
In Melbourne, at 73, journalist Neil Rankin,
who appeared on the platform with Ramsay
MacDonald and, coming to Australia, became
one of the leading workers for Dr. Maloney.
Rankin was one of the 12 founders of the
Bread and Cheese Club, Melbourne, and gave
it its name.
In Melbourne, at 59, Thomas Evans Dough-
ton, businessman and president of the Victorian
Golf Association. Other interests were Rotary
and the V.R.C.
In Melbourne, Decimus H. Mott, of the Vic.-
Riverina newspaper family. His father, George
Mott, educated for the Bar, came from Eng-
land in 1852 and joined Melbourne “Argus.”
In ’55 he started “Ovens and Murray Adver-
tiser” at Beechworth, then the “Border Post,”
Albury, and “Federal Standard,” Chiltern; his
family subsequently owned the Hamilton “Spec-
tator,” the Port Melbourne “Standard,” the
Kew “Mercury,” the Essendon “Gazette,”
the Kalgoorlie “Western Argus,” the Cool-
gardie “Miner” and the Traralgon “Record.”
Decimus Mott was destined for medicine, but
altered his plans in the ’93 crash. After a
period in Westralia he and a brother founded
Albury “Border Morning Mail,” and later
he was interested in various Vic. country and
suburban papers.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The yearly fete at Graythwaite Con-
valescent Home is always an event for
residents on the North-side of the Harbor.
The grounds of the home in Edward-
street, North Sydney, will have the flags
flying again next Saturday, October 25.
Mrs. Eva Hordern, untiring hon. secre-
tary for a number of years, tells of
wonderful prizes to be won this year in
the lucky packets: a ’plane passage to
Canberra (no, it is not a life sentence ;
the return ticket goes with it), ’plane
flights over Sydney, permanent waves for
the ladies, a week-end for two at the
Pacific Hotel, Manly, theatre tickets, and
many other really valuable prizes.
Graythwaite is a convalescent home for
soldiers ; some of the patients were lads
at the outbreak of World War I. You
won’t forget the date, October 25, will
you?
The Chelsea Flower Show, from the
entrance-gates, near St. Mary’s Cathedral,
to the exit at the other end opening on
to the lower Domain where a company
of V.As. served tea, at the double, from
a mobile canteen, was a success. The
show is said to have covered five acres.
Even to the uncalloused sole it seemed
more like five square miles before half
the exhibits were visited. Spring loitered
amid the trees, and the brightly-hued
flower-beds, and the enormous terra-cotta
and stone jars, and Sydney, which is really
an alfresco city, went forth and had a
grand time.
There were as many tents as in a gold
rush. They all held treasures —orchids
and roses, cut flowers and flower decora-
tions. Then there was cold-climate love-
liness—primrose and lilac. Wildflowers
from all the other States were flown over
daily, and on the opening day a loud gasp
of admiration greeted the glorious exhibit
from the West. Here were the Kangaroo
Paws of this Letter’s delight, and a yellow
flower that looks like a golden tassel, and
a silvery-looking bloom that must be like
a lyric in the sun. Disappointing,
was the manner in which the flowers from
South Africa—they were in blocks of
ice—were displayed. The blocks were
laid flat on a long table. An expert de-
clared they should have been upright
with the light shining through the ice.
A silver compact and a golden-haired
baby were two of the many “losts and
founds” proclaimed over the loud-
speakers. The Sydney Day Nursery en-
closure provided harborage for the
latter. Loudon Sainthill had designed
a tent that might have been a pavilion for
some glad tourney when Henry V
married his Catherine of France. This
held decorative efforts by Sydney’s art-
conscious world. The tent was a pleasant
place from Hera Roberts at the top
entrance to Barbara Knox at the other
end. The displays were a bit precious,
here and there. But you couldn’t help
loving the china dogs of Mrs. Denis
Allen’s entry, and the simple austerity
of Wal Taylor’s rosewood occasional
table, two dark amethyst candles in a
double candlestick, and an unusual glaze
decked with flowers. All the entries
were titled.
Pretty wife of Dr. George Duncan pre-
sided at the door of the Royal Art
Society’s show. She sold to the many
tickets in a lucky competition, prize a
miniature and to the few —Frank
Albert one of them —flower paint-
ings. In this show there was nothing
more alluring than Mollie O’Shea’s
“Azaleas,” nor cleverer than the “Pot
Plant.” There was the glorious
French floral flag. Small children,
hypnotised by the doll’s house and
the band, kept fond mothers and
grandmothers, Mrs. Jessica Lee one of
these, going from one to the other. In
chort there was everything. But there
was nothing to touch the serene beauty of
the trees. Mrs. Northcott declared the
show open at half-past two. The presi-
dent of the committee was knight Charles
Bickerton Blackburn. The organisers
were M. A. Nowland and J. D. Thomas.
Red Cross benefits.
Film producer Harry Watt and Mrs.
Watt were the guests-of-honor at a lunch
in the Rhinecastle cellars last week. This
was one of three lunches given by Rhine-
castle to help the funds of the Australian
Journalists’ War Memorial. The chef,
who cooks, for love and not as a profes-
sion is Jay M. Stanley, and the dishes
he provided were worthy a special decora-
tion. Mrs. Harry Watt, lately arrived in
Australia, wore a soft blue frock, and her
lustrous black hair, hatless. In England
Mrs. Watt was a film critic. Young son
Christopher made the journey to Aus-
tralia by way of America with his mother.
The Vyvyan Hollands, who arrived in
Sydney last week, are an interesting pair.
Mrs. Holland, formerly Thelma Besant, a
Melbourne girl, is on a world tour repre-
senting England’s old-established cosmetic
firm of Cyclax, Ltd. “Beauty unlimited”
has been the firm’s unofficial slogan for
over 50 years, and an amusing and ab-
sorbing exhibit shown by Mrs. Holland is
a facsimile of an issue of the “Throne
and the Country” of 50 years ago show-
ing her firm’s advertisements. When in
England Mrs. Holland advises Princess
Elizabeth on make-up, and she believes
the princess will choose English-Rose
make-up for her wedding-day.
Vyvyan Holland himself is the only sur-
viving son of Oscar Wilde. He is of
medium height, slim and, as one might ex-
pect from his father’s son, is extremely
easy to talk to, Mr. Holland is a barrister.
He is famed as a translator. He is one
of the council of the Wine and Food
Club of London. During the war the
club became immersed in evolving
methods of turning the meagre rations
of the times into palatable dishes. Son
Christopher Merlin, now 20-months-old,
is making the tour with his parents.
Among Mrs. Holland’s prized possessions
is a silk scarf printed with fans—each
fan bearing the autograph of the player
of a part in the original of Wilde’s “Lady
Windermere’s Fan.”
One of the events in the career
of brilliant pianist Eunice Gardiner was
her recent appearance with the A.B.C.
Symphony Orchestra in Melbourne. The
big work of the performance was the
Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini for
piano and orchestra —Eunice, of course,
being the pianist. This was the first oc-
casion the A.B.C. had been able to obtain
the orchestral parts of this work, and
they have to be returned to the London
distributors immediately they only
arrived just in time from London. John
Lee photograph of Eunice, who in pri-
vate life is Mrs. Robert Curtin.
Joan Spark married solicitor Bryan
Meagher, of Temora, in the chapel of St.
John’s College within the University last
Saturday morning. Joan is the only
daughter of the A, G. Sparks, of Double
Bay. Reception was at the Pickwick Club.
The yearly ball of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers will be held in the
State ballroom, Market-street, on the
night of Friday, the 31st of this month.
Officially this 1 is known as the “1947
Authors’ Ball.” Your dress can be plain
or fancy, and Ruby Illingworth, social
secretary of the Fellowship, will book
reservations. Telephone XM6826.
The archives of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron at Kirribilli reveal that
its first Vice-Regal commodore was Earl
Beauchamp—at that time the young and
very handsome Governor of New South
Wales. Since then the squadron has had
many vice-regal commodores, two of
them being Lord Forster and Lord Stone-
haven. When the Duke of Gloucester
came the squadron achieved the distinc-
tion of a Royal commodore. Commo-
dore-elect is James March Hardie, a
member of the firm of Allard, Way and
Hardie. He sails Windward 11.
Miriam Macrae’s portrait of William
Morris' Hughes will be on its way to the
Welsh National Gallery at Cardiff (the
second-largest gallery in Great Britain)
in a week or so. “Billy” isn’t fond of
having his portrait painted, but he agreed
to this one because it is the gift of a
well-known Sydney businessman to
Cardiff, the statesman’s birthplace.
The portrait was unveiled yesterday in
the Ballet and Theatre Club, ceremony
being the work of Aubrey Halloran.
Toasts to Wales, the artist and the subject
of the picture were drunk’ at as bright a
sherry party as the club has housed.
There are many other paintings on the
walls—the Australian Art Society’s ex-
hibition, which doesn’t open till next
month.
The congregation of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral moved next door into the
Town Hall for its recent performance
of Mendelssohn’s choir “St. Paul.” There
were crowds of young people and
parents with their children who knew
the work of soloists and choir intimately.
Archbishop Mowll and Mrs. Mowll,
with other distinguished clergymen and
their wives, were in the front row —a
very bad place for any but gaitered legs
when the top corridor door is left open.
The work was faithfully, even lovingly,
presented under the direction of Frederick
Foxley. The bass solo “O God, Have
Mercy Upon Me” was very stirring. The
tenor’s great moment was the “Men,
Brethren and Fathers” aria ; and the boy
soprano and the boy alto sang like
young cherubs. The unusual dressing of
the Town Hall stage—black cassock and
white surplice—was very effective.
Sylvia Fisher, Melbourne dramatic
soprano, will give a farewell recital in
Sydney Conservatorium next Saturday.
The A.8.C., for whom Sylvia has ful-
filled numerous concert and broadcast
engagements, is sponsoring this recital,
as it did her farewell to Melbourne a
few weeks ago. Overseas artists, that
master of the smoothly-rounded musical
phrase Alexander Kipnis among them,
have predicted a brilliant operatic career
for Sylvia. The young singer sails next
month in s.s. Orion. Two of her first
calls will be to Covent Garden, where
the management is'arranging an audition
for her, and to the 8.8. C., where she will
present letters from the A.B.C.
From Melbourne
Caulfield Cup racegoers took no risks
with the weather, and were casual and
cool in outfits which looked, in many
cases, as though they had been hastily
assembled. But here and there glimpses
of new trends were seen. The tiered skirt
is a charming new fashion ; one in soft
green not only had three tiers but wats
knife-pleated. Drapery was seen on many
frocks ; one woman who Wore a black
frock added color to it by using floral
crepe to make an inset panel, and re-
peated the floral motif with a large bow
on the shoulder of the- bodice. Bustles
were seen on quite a number of frocks,
and once again hats were in the limelight,
especially the models with the east-west
width.
Lady Dugan, who was with the
Governor, chose a simple shirtmaker
frock of beige crepe; navy blue faced
the lapels of the bodice and piped the
breast pockets, which were finished with
gold buttons. Her large shady hat of
navy straw was veiled. Mrs. Norman
Robinson wore an ink-blue off-the-face
hat with a matching blue jacket suit.
Mrs. McLean’s black silk frock and
jacket were patterned in dusty-pink and
worn with a close-fitting black hat. Mrs.
H. R. Way wore white accessories and a
large white-trimmed navy hat with her
frock of heavy navy sheer, self rouleaux
of the material trimming the bodice.
Mrs. Edgar Noble’s simple navy-tailored
frock had a heart-shaped, neckline ; the
underbrim of her natural-straw hat was
lined with navy and finished with navy
veiling. With her was Mrs. Ivor Man-
ton, whose black jacket-suit was worn
with a filmy white Jblouse and large
black hat. Mrs. Leo Curtis teamed a
muted floral frock and large black hat;
Mrs. Bill McGowan was in primrose-
yellow linen suit and wide straw hat;
Mrs. Norman Carlyon covered her floral
frock with a black edge-to-edge coat.
Mrs. Reg Smith wore one of the smartest
hats of the day. Of fine navy straw, the
brim was upturned with a large bow of
white ribbon; it was worn with a navy-
blue jacket-suit.
Mrs. lan Potter combined a black
frock and a wide brown hat, the edge
slotted all round through which brown
satin ribbon was threaded. Mrs. Con-
stance Day was tailored in grey tweeds,
her lily -of - the - valley green blouse
matched by the ribbon which trimmed
her hat. Sydney visitor Mrs. Hal Watt’s
large amber-toned straw hat had a heart-
shaped brim and was trimmed with
black ribbon to match her frock. Her
gloves were amber-toned suede. Mrs.
Everard Baillieu’s rose-pink chiffon hat
was tied under the chin with streamers
of rose-pink chiffon ; her matching silk
frock was patterned in an all-over de-
sign of small navy figures. Mrs. J.
Bowen Pain chose an ensemble of navy
and white sheer ; her shady straw hat
was trimmed with sapphire-blue and
white ribbon. Mrs. Peter Sturdee’s suit
was of royal-blue wool. Mrs. Theo
Lewis was in soft beige crepe ; the white
organdie petals which formed a frill
round the short sleeves of her frock
were matched by her wide white organdie
hat.
The Clyde Old Girls’ Association’s pro-
duction, “Mystery of Greenfingers,”
which will be presented at the Union
Theatre on October 28 and 30, will benefit
the Isabel Henderson Kindergarten
and the Red Cross British Relief Appeal.
Members of the cast are busy rehearsing
while other members of the association
are planning to make money in front of
the House by flower- and sweets-stalls.
Booking opens at Allan’s today.
Lady Dugan was greeted with applause
as she took her seat at the opening of the
Ballet Rambert season. Her lovely gown
of sapphire-blue orepe was highlighted
with sequin embroidery. Penelope Nettle-
fold’s parma-violet crepe gown had
sequins in a silver toning embroidering
the short sleeves and front of the bodice.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll, who with Mr.
Carroll welcomed the vice-regal party,
wore filmy black net draperies, with a
matching sari over her Edwardian coif-
fure. Mrs. Peter Webster was in flame-
red georgette. Denise Wybrow, who was
accompanied by Geoff Atkins, dohned a
glittering gold-embroidered Chinese wrap
over black velvet. Jennifer Beveridge’s
apricot-toned net banded in ruby velvet
was worn under a short-padded floral
jacket. Mrs. Rupert Downes was elegant
in a black dinner gown and silver-fox
cape.
Miss H. W. M. Wallace, founder of the
Australian Ballet Society, in receiving
members of the Ballet Rambert at a re-
ception given in their honor at the rooms
of the British Music Society, presented
each with a food parcel to send home to
their families in England. Spring flowers
from the garden of Miss E. Northcutt at
Lower Templestowe decorated the rooms.
Assisting Miss Wallace were the president
of the Ballet Society, B. C. Fleming, and
the vice-president, Rosalind Bevan.
Among the many guests was Donald
Holliday, who represented the British
Council.
Well-known amateur Thespian Nan
Summers, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. Summers, of South Yarra, and Rohan,
elder son of Sir David and Lady Rivett, of
St. Kilda-road, were quietly married at the
South Yarra home of Mrs. G. Crabb, by
Rev. Keith Mathieson, of Sydney, who
as a padre had worked on the Burma-
Siam railway with the bridegroom. Nan,
who was given away by her father, wore
a charming frock of ivory French crepe,
the skirt featuring a bustle. She carried
a posy of lily of the valley and gar-
denias and her shoulder-length veil was
caught with a spray of gardenias. Mrs.
Jervis Glasscock attended the bride ; best
man was Norman Carter, also a fellow-
p.-0.-w. Rohan is the author of the
successful book Behind Bamboo. Recep-
tion was held at Menzies.
Barbara, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. F. P. Selleck, of Malvern, who has
just announced her engagement to
Geoffrey, youngest son of Mr. and Mrs.
W. Tolson, of Toorak, is the subject of
this Antoine-Kershaw study. Barbara,
who was educated at the Melbourne C.
of E. Girls’ Grammar School and is
treasurer of the Old Grammarians Dra-
matic Society, puts in two mornings each
week in canteen work for the patients of
the Royal Melbourne Hospital; she is
also a member of the Whernside Junior
Auxiliary for the hospital. A keen race-
goer with a flair for good dressing, Bar-
bara is wearing on her third finger a
sapphire set in diamonds. She -has just
turned 21. ,
A stall in great demand at the Royal
Melbourne Hospital Fair, which was
opened at the Town Hall by Lady
Herring, was the one for Food for
Britain. Here could be bought parcels
already packed and sealed for delivery
at a cost of £l. The Northcote auxiliary
served a salad luncheon and afternoon
tea. Marigold Myer was in charge of
the Whernside Junior Auxiliary stall.
Mrs. Roy Honeyman and Mrs. Ken
Luke, with a band of helpers including
Iris Vincent Smith and Barbara Selleck,
did a roaring trade at their hat bar. A
smart green felt hat trimmed with pale-
yellow flowers was brought in by a man
who said he had made it and stood to
win a bet if his creation was sold. It
was. President and organiser of auxilia-
ries, Mrs. R. W. Chambers, who with
Vivienne Betty Stephens welcomed Lady
Herring, hopes the proceeds will beat last
year’s figure of £l3OO.


tBJm
That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 68
years’ specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are'
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet .
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,359.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
' Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; >
David Wilson, K.C. , Ah
N.S.W, Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. 8* T. RUTTER, General^^Manager.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361
Branches in All States .
129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills (Tas.)
Towards
Re-
Aprlli Lds§i Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £
Rights, development, etc. .. .. 251,233
Preliminary exes., £11,006 .. .. 262,239
1939.. 51,823 Nil 314,062
Added patents, £5007 .. .. •• 319,069
Profit.
1940.. 31,743 3 p.Ci 28,500 8,848 815.826
1941.. 132,092 0 (i it 68,82? 0i,26S 252,561
To stock reserve, £31,150 ii • * 883,711
1942.. 121,631 6 p.c. = 90,300 31,331 252,380
1943.. 108,545 6„ „ 90,300 18,245 234,135
1944.. 125,791 6„ „ 90,480 35,311 198,824
1945.. 101,634 6„ „ 94,620 7,014 191,810
A.P.P.M. and Subsidiary.
Subsidiary’s reserves, £1005..
Plus Reserve from discount on
subsidiary shares purchased, 5g 42 5 132 395
£234,205 .. . . ..
Less Subsidiary’s intangibles,
£175,785 J
1946.. 106,223 6 p.c. = 96,000 10,223 122,172
1947.. 100,813 6 „ „ 96,000 4,813 117,359
* After deducting intangibles (now £432,806) from
reserves; and excluding depreciation reserve (now
£756,054).
Profits allowed by the Prices Commis-
sioner don’t indicate the achievement of
this co., whose formation in 1936 was pro-
pitious from a national viewpoint. After
two years of preparation and research
it managed to turn out quality paper
almost wholly from native short-fibred
eucalypt timbers; and Australia’s war
effort came to rely heavily on the Burnie
(Tas.) mills for supplies of writing and
printing paper, other than newsprint. War
conditions helped to consolidate the co.’s
own position; today its products com-
pare favorably in price with the small
amounts of similar paper arriving from
overseas. Demand for its products well
exceeds present plant capacity.
Shareholders, however, have been
allowed only modest reward for their
enterprise. In the case of Associated
Pulp, price-control has been unen-
lightened and increasingly punitive; the
decline in earning power since 1944 has
been more severe than the introductory
table suggests, tax provision having
fallen by about two-thirds:
Parent. Combined Figures.
1944. 1946. 1947.
Gross earnings .. .. £412,217 £298,400 £285,010
Less —;
Depreciation., .. 107,880 98,139 106,638
. Tax .. .. .. 161,791 75,298 54,074
Other exes 16,324 18,874 23,653
Declared net profit .. 126,722 106,089 100,645
Gross earnings are entered after pay-
ment of wages and other prime costs.
As the eo.’s output has been fairly
steady (at 21,000 tons) for over five years,
the fall of 31 p.c. in gross profits since
1944 mainly reflects expense-increases
which haven’t been passed on. Many
extra costs were deliberately incurred to
revive pre-war standards of fineness —
and directors are conscious of the need
for further improvements —but inflexible
price supervision is penalising progress.
Net profits given in the introductory
table have been adjusted for small changes
in intangible-asset values. Last term’s
£100,813 represented 6.3 p.c. on capital,
compared with 6.6, 6.3, 8.3, 7.2, 8.1, 8,7
and 2.6 p.c. back to 1940, when co. first
reached a profitable footing.
Finished stocks rose last term by 1250
tons (largely because of shipping diffi-
culties), reflected in the balance-sheet by
a rise of £54,326 —cost, not selling-value.
Sale of the 1250 tons would have im-
proved gross revenue appreciably:
Parent
—,» Only. Consolidated Figures.
1939. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital ~ £1,200,000 £1,600,000 £1,600.000
Deprec’tion reserve 653,315 756,054
Liabilities.. .. 341,826 53,635 234,284
Tax provision .. 1,675 170,988 136,827
Freehold land, etc.* 100,834 287,302 294,370
Buildings and plant* 971,967 1,457,772 1,768,203
Stores, etc. . . 61,373 239,166 316,056
Finished stocks .. 52,057 55,295 109,621
Debtors . . . . 26,679 140,657 120,924
Cash, etc 16,529 224,636 49,194
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. 314,062 ,432,974 432,806
* At cost.
To carry these stocks, as well as £76,890
more in other stores, and to add £310,431
worth of plant, cash holdings were re-
duced by £175,442, debtors by £19,733
and liabilities increased by £180,649.
The excess of more or less liquid assets
over liabilities declined by £219,947 (to
£215,184). The deficiency of working
capital will be relieved in November,
when a first ss. call is due on 1,600,000
new £1 ords. allotted to shareholders on
a one-for-one basis last July. These shares
will be eligible for divs. only from
November, 1949.
Some of the new funds are required
for transfer to co.’s subsidiary, Paper
Makers Pty., Ltd,, whose entire share
capital was bought in 1944 as a means of
acquiring the freehold forests at Surrey
Hills (Tas.), adjoining Associated Pulp’s
own freehold. (As full payment for the
344,526 £1 shares'in Paper Makers, the
parent issued 85,000 of its own £1 shares,
valued for sale purposes at £110,321.
Tangible assets brought into account
from the subsidiary amounted to
£168,741). Two new ventures to be dele-
gated to the subsidiary are the erection
of a large saw-mill, with seasoning plant
etc., to cut building timber as well as
pulpwood, and another mill to turn out
hard-pressed fibre-boards, used in house
construction. Last term the parent sub-
scribed £45,000 extra capital to Paper
Makers—including 6d, per share allot-
ment money on 1,000,000 new £1 ords.
upon which subsidiary will make calls
from time to time.
Part of the new capital is also required
on parent’s own account towards erec-
tion of a third paper-mill, machinery for
which should arrive from U.K. early next
year (a fourth machine being due in
1950). The new mill should increase out-
put by about one-third. With an eye on
long-range prospects, investors value the
f.-ps. at 345. 6d. ex rights, yielding 3.5
p.c. on basis of last div. Net tangible
asset backing, exclusive of depreciation
reserve, was 19s. 3d, on consolidated
figures last April. The new shares (19s.
uncalled) are priced around 12s, each.
About half of Associated Pulp’s capital
is held directly by the public, balance
belonging to a number of cos., including
Barrier mining concerns. Zinc Invest-
ments, Ltd., whose holding of 196,367
Associated Pulp ords. constitutes its main
source of revenue, is prevented by tax
considerations from distributing them
amongst individual shareholders and thus
winding-up; but the 196,367 new shares
allotted to this co. in July were taken
pro rata by its shareholders,
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 173,003 7 p.c. = 162,759 10,244 500,635
1938.. 182,927 7 „ „ 162,759 20,168 520,803
1939.. 201,610 74 „ ~ 174,385 27,225 548,028
1940.. 182,815 64 „ ~ 151,134 31,681 579,709
1941.. 180,066 64 „ ~151,134 28,932 608,641
1942.. 191,252 64 „ ~ 151,134 40,118 648,759
1943.. 190,938 64 „ ~151,134 39,804 688,563
1944.. 191,103 64 „ „ 151,134 89,969 728,532
1945.. 191,287 6*,, ~ 151,134 40,153 768,685
1946. . 169,499 6 „ „ 189,508 29,991 798,676
1947.. 169,456 6 „ ~139,507 29,949 828,625
Control over the fleet of 28 vessels (six
passenger and 22 cargo, aggregating
76,417 tons) reverted to the co. in August
after six years of Government chartering.
At the same time the Government has
permitted a rise in passenger fares , of
40 p.c., and in freight charges various
increases ranging up to 38 p.c., with
special subsidies for the transport of coal,
timber, frozen meat, dried fruits and
other items. It is questionable whether
these new rates will meet the enormous
increases in costs. They would hardly
have covered the £2f million debit in-
curred by the Government last year (it
had budgeted for a loss of only £1 mil-
lion), and the more businesslike direction
to be expected henceforth must contend
with higher wage-rates as well as the 40-
hour week after December. More
serious from the shipowners’ standpoint
is the legacy of inefficiency, go-slow
tactics and chronic discontent amongst
seamen and wharfies, all bequeathed from
the period of “nationalisation.”
The Federal Government will not only
continue to stipulate fares and freight
charges. It intends to reserve coastal
shipping for Australian-built ships, to be
delicensed after 25 years’ service—the cost
of new vessels will be about doubled in
consequence —and a new shipping board
is being formed to arrange for the Gov-
ernment’s own entry into the coastal
trade. Whilst little would be feared from
the Government on a strictly competitive
basis, Adelaide Steamship, as an impor-
tant shareholder in Australian National
Airways, is acquainted with the peculiar
ethics of official rivalry. “We are at the
moment hove-to in fog,” says chairman
M. G. Anderson, “but a mercantile
marine wifi always be essential to Aus-
tralia, and in the long run private enter-
prise offers the soundest method.”
The 72-year-old co. operates Australia's
largest coastal fleet, but its two main pas-
senger vessels are at present out of com-
mission. Manoora (10,856 tons) is about
to undergo reconversion for civilian
work; and Manunda (9115 tons) will
probably be ready for service by January
after a refitting period of 16 months
—“she will have occupied the same time
to refit as she did to build.” A new
motor-vessel, Morialta (passenger, 1365
tons), joined the fleet last year after
service with the Admiralty, being refitted
in the co.’s own shops at Port Adelaide.
Necessity for more modern vessels
under post-war conditions is apparent to
the directors, who feel, however, that be-
fore placing new orders they “should be
able to see an adequate return.” T-h®
heavy cost of keeping some older vessels
up to standard is largely responsible for
the sharp drop in earnings since 1945.
Practically all the declared profits in
recent years represent divs. from sub-
sidiary tug and lighter cos. and from the
large wad of outside investments, receipts
from the chartered ships being barely
enough to cover the necessary renewals
provision at present rates. Last terms
£169,456 total profit appears after an
unstated allowance for depreciation (value
of shipping in balance-sheet is down by
£88,345), but includes additions ot
£20,000 to the insurance account and
£lO,OOO to renewals provision.
Besides a further strengthening of the
already powerful financial position, the
latest balance-sheet indicates a general
activity greater than for some years
past. Creditors are more than twice as
large as in 1946, whilst the portmanteau
item “book debts and investments” rose
by £107,500:
1942. 1946. 1947 '
raid capital .. £2,825,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors.. 240,677 ito’tis
Provident fund .. 97,614 122.236 119,713
Steamers, properties, 00 »
etc. .. .. 1,450,293 1,081,515 997,073
Shares in subsidiaries 186,500 i
Stocks and stores 83.377 77,493 101,154
Book debts and in- „
vestments .. 774,411 •. flo’ovq
Consols, cash, etc. 948,984 1,897,250 1,529,273
Liquid assets showed a net increase of
£114,390, their book value now represent-
ing 19s. per £1 of co.’s capital. • About
half a million shares are held in J. and
A. Brown and Abermain Seaham Col-
lieries, Ltd., with other holdings in Amal-
gamated Wireless and A..N.A. all
entered “at cost less depreciation.”
The current financial term, and even
the one following, will not provide a fair
test of the co,’s prospects; and until the
whole shipping fleet is under way, divs.
will continue to come largely from invest-
ment income. The chairman’s faith in
an ultimate revival for private shipping
is supported by investors, who currently
value the £1 ords. at 325. 4d., yielding
3.8 p.c. from a 6 p.c. div. Total net
asset backing, on book values, is 275. 7d.
a share.
Buckingham’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
July. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1937.. 12,656 7$ p.c. = 9,000 3,656 81,033
1938.. 17,881 8 „ „ 10,332 7,549 88,582
1939.. 18,398 8 „ „ 10,840 7,558 96,140
1940.. 19,410 8 „ „ 12,735 6,675 102,815
1941.. 24,098 8 „ „ 15,360 8,738 111,553
Prom bad-debts reserve, £2490 .. 114,043
1942.. 20,012 12 p.c. = 23,040 111,015
From bad-debts reserve, £1220 .. 112,235
1943.. 22,912 8 p.c. = 15,360 7,552 119,787
1944.. 27,173 9 „ „ 17,280 9,893 129,680
1945!! 30,454 10 „ „ 19,200 11,254 140,934
1946.. 46,101 10 „ „ 28,047 18,054 158,988
1947.. 44,951 10 „ „ 28,977 15,974 174,962
* Omitting bad-debts reserve, now £28,859.
In the decade .covered by this table
Buckingham’s more than doubled its paid
capital, trebled the number of its retail
stores (now nine), and quadrupled the
value of its annual turnover. Of profits
earned during the period about one-third
was placed to reserve.
Women’s fashion-goods comprise the
largest part of the co.’s retailing business,
which has always featured time-payment
and cash-order facilities. Nowadays co.
advances under several different banners;
trading as “Ashleys,” it sells women’s
wear in Sydney’s Imperial Arcade
and at Wollongong and Parramatta
(N.S.W.); as “Curzons,” also specialising
in women’s clothes, it has strategic posi-
tions in Queen-street, Brisbane, and Pitt-
street, Sydney; whilst two general stores
being conducted in Parramatta and Bowral
(N.S.W.) retain their former titles—
Henderson and Gregg Pty. and R. S.
Smith and Co. The original shop in
Oxford-street, Sydney, which continues
to trade under its own name, has lately
been joined by another one dose by—
used largely as distributing centre for the
whole group.
Net earnings, which in 1937 constituted
10.5 p.c. on capital, have during the last
four terms been 14.2, 15.8, 16 and 15 p.c.
successively. Last year’s decline would
have been much sharper but for the re-
moval of War-time (Co.) Tax:
1945. 1946. 1947.
Turnover* ;. £1,376,704 £1,734,040 £1,996,516
Taxable profit .. 83,954 123,101 90,951
Less Tax .. .. 53,500 77,000 46,000
Net profit .. 30,454 46,101 44,951
* Excludes cash-order business.
Price-control was more stringent, allow-
ing net profit of about sd. in £1 of


DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKbOIS
osihuvAtv
rjt mm .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMB.OSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
■ ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
FACING G PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. , . . The
Wentworth faces a part ... yet
it is merely "round the comet”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
’Krone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
A copy of the full prospectus dated 2nd October. 1947 has been
duly filed with the New Squth Wales Registrar General
of Companies.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
Of the Issue of 20,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each at PAR
40,000 5% Cumulative Preferred Ordinary
Shares of £1 each at PAR
AUSTRALIAN FOOD STORES
PROPERTY INVESTMENTS
LIMITED
(Incorporated under the N.S.W. Companies Act, 1936)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
(Divided into 425,000 5% Cumulative Preferred Ordinary and 75,000
Ordinary Shares of £1 each)
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION:
40.000 5% Cumulative Preferred Ordinary Shares of £1 each
5/- per share with application
5/- per share on allotment
10/- per share in calls of 5/- at and when required at
intervals of not less then one month £40,000
20.000 Ordinary Shores of £1 each
The whole of the Ordinary Share issue (with the excep-
tion of Directors qualifying shares) has been taken up
by Australian Food Stores Pty. Ltd. as follows:
10.000 shores fully paid up to £1
10.000 shores paid to 1/- each with calls as and when
required £20,000
HELD IN RESERVE:
385.000 5% Cumulative Preferred Ordinary Shares at
£1 each £385,000
55.000 Ordinary Shares £55,000
£500,000
DIRECTORS
HENRY ERNEST COLEMAN, Company Director, (Chairman),
60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
LEONARD BADEN COLLINS, Company Director,
222 New South Head Road, Edgecliff.
JOHN WINCHCOMBE BAVIN, Barrister,
174 Phillip Street, Sydney.
LESLIE AGAR SCARR, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
10 Martin Place, Sydney.
FREDERICK GEORGE OUBRIDGE, Company Director,
68 Kameruka Road, Nbrthbridge.
SOLICITORS
FREDERIC GORDON LENDER, of
Messrs. BARRY NORRIS and WILDES,
60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS
LARCOMBE and COWARD, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
BANKERS
The Bonk of Australasia
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
SECRETARY
ROYDON RODERICK RAEBURN, J.P., A.C.1.5., A,A,A„
Company Secretary,
57 New South Head Rood, Vaucluse
REGISTERED OFFICE
Suite 609, 6th Floor, 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
F. E. HEADLAM
117 Pitt Street, Sydney
Member of the Sydney Stock Excha/ige
This is an abridgement of the full prospectus. The requirements of
Section 138 of the Companies Act, 1936, of New South Woles, have not
been fully complied with in this advertisement.
OBJECTS OF THIS ISSUE
The proceeds of the present shares offered for subscription wHI be
used for the following:—
1. To take over from Australian Food Stores Pty. Ltd. the freehold
store at 694 Old South Head Rood, Rose Bay North.
2. To acquire additional freehold sites as required for expansion by
Australian Food Stores Pty. Ltd., and to build or modernise such
properties to a standard as illustrated by the existing Rose Bay
North Store.
3. To lease the properties to Australian Food Stores Pty, Ltd. as
principal tenants at a rental sufficient to cover:—
(a) The 5% Preferred Ordinary Dividend.
(b) 2% per annum on capital cost of the building as depreciation
reserve.
(c) Rates and Taxes (except Federal Land Tax).
(d) All other outgoings incurred incidental to the maintenance
of the buildings.
STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors, must
be raised by the issue of the shares now offered for subscription is
£61,035, and is required to be provided in respect of each of the
following:—
(i) The purchase price of 694 Old South Head Road,
Rose Bay North, property (at cost)
(ii) Purchase price. and alteration to modern Food Store
of one other property
(iii) Preliminary expenses payable by the Company, in-
cluding incorporation of the Company, Registration,
etc
(iv) Inaugural advertising, including publication of abrid-
ged Prospectus, Memorandum of Articles of Associ-
ation and Prospectus
(v) Goodwill
(vi) Working Capital
(vii) Brokerage
£61,035
£28,500
£30,000
£435
£6OO
NIL
£5OO
£l,OOO
There are no founders, management or deferred shores.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
The Company's Memorandum and Articles of Association fully comply
with the requirements of the Sydney Stock Exchange. Applications will
be made in due course for listing of the shores on this Exchange.
Application for shares wilt be received only on one of the forms of
application and endorsed open a fad prospector. Copies of the full
prospectus and forms of appicatien for shares may be obtained at the
registered office of the Company, 60 Hunter Street, Sydney, or the Com-
pany's Stock Broker, F. E. Headlam, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, Member of
the Sydney Stock Exchange.
A NEW UNIT TRUST
Spreading your Investment
over the shares in 20 of Australia's
foremost companies
SECURITY UNITS PTY. LTD. (whose Managing Director, Mr. Hugh Walton,
introduced the Unit Trust method of investment to Australia in 1934, and
managed the first Unit Trust for 9 years) announce the formation of
FIRST SECURITY UNIT TRUST
The Security resulting from a holding
of Ordinary Shares In 20 of Australia's
leading public companies, will be
apparent to those men and women
who possess but relatively small capi-
tal. They are placed In the same
position as the large investor, for
they can get that "spread" or
"diversification" which is the basic
principle of safe investment and regie
tar income.
SUB-UNITS of First Security Unit
Trust can be bought in any multiple
of 10 subject to a minimum initial
purchase of 20. They are readily
convertible into cash if it is desired
to realise on them. These Sub-Units
will cost around £1 each.
Writ* for particulars and descriptive brochure today to
SECURITY UNITS PTY. LTD.
28 Grosvener Street, SYDNEY. 8W1955
the managers of
FIRST SECURITY UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trusts** are GENERAL ACCIDENT FIRE ft LIFE ASSURANCE
CORPORATION LTD., 105 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, whose assets exceed £30,000,000
Sterling.
Note: The above Unit Trust has no association
or connection with any other Unit Trust.
turnover. It scarcely provides for the risk
of fashion merchandise becoming dated,
requiring occasional marked-down sales.
Last term £66,000 of, turnover was at
marked-down prices, accounting for some
of the fall in profits; but most of these
disposals were of war-time purchases,
and nothing on the same scale is now in
prospect.
Most significant movement in the new
balance-sheet is the rise in book-debts of
£67,084, or 27 p.c. During the year co.
experienced “an incessant call for credit”
and cash-order business exceeded
£250,000. The reserve of £28,859 against
debtors is considered adequate by the
board —“all bad debts have been written
off and our ledgers are particularly
clean,” says the chairman;
1939. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital .. .. £144,090 £288,000 £300,000
Bad-debts reserve .. 18,339 22,484 28,859
Overdraft, creditors .. 142,553 349,126 371,782
Mortgage . . .. 1 — 80,600
Tax provision .. .. 6,307 133,111 106,772
Staff funds .. •• — 1 24,417 27,252
Freeholds .. . . 131,004 399,879 214,562
Plant, etc 66,212 87,051 118,425
Stocks 64,485 287,707 324,325
Debtors .. .. 149,517 241,812 308,896
Shares 1,616 11,288 13,288
Cash, etc. .. . .. 1,225 17,871 3,821
To carry these debts and £36,618 more
stock, to add £31,374 new plant and to
discharge the £80,600 mortgage, directors
drew upon the proceeds (£185,000) from
resale of the Curzons property in Sydney.
That property had been bought for the
same price in 1945, when expiration', of
the co.’s lease was approaching; in the
resale security of tenure has been
“assured.”
Extra funds are needed not only for
working capital but for development of
the Brisbane store, only half of the avail-
able space of which can be used at present
for trading. The Treasury has deferred
a recent application to raise £lOO,OOO
more capital; meanwhile directors pro-
pose to sell the Brisbane freehold under
conditions similar to those in the recent
Sydney transaction. The only large free-
hold then remaining to Buckingham’s will
be the first Oxford-street building.
Co. has no pref. capital. The £1 ords.,
after rising on ’Change from last year’s
ceiling price of 325. 6d. to 50s. in June,
have since weakened to 465., at which
figure the yield on a 10 p.c. div. basis is
4.4 p.c. Their net tangible asset backing
is 345. 6d. each.
National Oil Pty., Ltd.
With the aid of new processing plant
the output of petrol by National Oil Pty.,
working the Newnes-Capertee (N.S.W.)
shale deposits, rose from 1,979,511 gallons
in 1945 to 3,696,981 gallons in 1946.
Costs of producing the greater quantity
rose by only 35 p.c., but a cut in selling
prices and increased interest charges on
the growing debt brought a record loss
of £401,830 for the year. Operations
over the past five years have produced
the following results:
Dec., Loss.
1942 £263,123
1943 296,981
1944 303,788
1945 342,055
1946 401,830
Total losses to 31/12/’46, £1,607,777
Share capital is £325,000 —George Davis,
of the gelatine concern, was principally
interested in this at the beginning—there
is £334,000 of Commonwealth debentures
and £166,000 of N.S.W. Government
debentures, while the Commonwealth is
owed £2,957,735 on advances. Current
liabilities aggregate £462,694, and total
capital , and liabilities amount to
£4,245,429, an increase of £509,499 dur-
ing the year. Fixed assets are in the
balance-sheet at £1,919,302, and have been
written down to the extent of £408,840
altogether. The 1946 yield of crude oil
was 56 gallons to the ton of shale, com-
pared with 45 gallons in 1945; the re-
covery of petrol in the cracking plant was
unchanged at 48 p.c. The plant is now
capable of handling a far greater tonnage
of shale than is at present being mined.
Original production estimate was
10,000,000 gallons of petrol yearly.
* * * *
High values at No. 3 level of the Iron
Duke block are reported by Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie, Ltd. This follows the
announcement of other good develop-
ments at the same level, and the exposure
of 24dwt. ore over 32in. width at 150 ft.
below. The defunct London-controlled
Associated Northern, Ltd., took millions
of pounds-worth of gold out of this
block, which had one of the richest
sections of the now worked-out Oroya-
Brownhill shoot.
London-controlled G.M. of Kalgoorlie,
which also operates Oroya South, Idaho,
Australia East and Brownhill leases, re-
ports total mill throughput of 156,502
tons for the year ended March 31, 1947
an improvement of 39,901 tons on the
previous term. Average yield was slightly
lower, but working costs also fell 3d.,
to 30s. Bd., a ton. Balance-sheet and
profit figures are due shortly from
London, but it’s known that a 5 p.c. div.
has been declared, compared with 84 p.c.
in 1946.
* * * *
Lake View and Star, Wiluna Gold
Mines, Ltd., and Gold Fields Aust. De-
velopment have exercised their jointly-
held option on the Porphyry goldmine,
95 miles north-east of Kalgoorlie and ,
near Edjudina, Price was £BO,OOO, paid
to Porphyry, N.L., in exchange for the
whole of its shares. During the past two
years the option-holders carried out ex-
tensive diamond-drilling and develop-
ment, and they announce that a large
tonnage of low-grade ore has been
proved.


% “Our knowledge is die amassed thought and experience of
innumerable minds. »—Emerson.
A salient definition of knowledge in
principle, and especially true of tlie
particular knowledge resulting from
our seventy-five years experience in
the design and development of steam
generating equipment.
The history of Bahcock & Wilcox
is largely the story of the successive
generations of engineers, metal-
lurgists, chemists and research
workers in Bahcock factories and
laboratories throughout the world
whose co-ordinated efforts have pro-
duced the modern high temperature
and pressure boiler and established
the leadership of Babcock & Wilcox
in the field of thermal engineering.
Steam users in Australia may reap
the benefit of the synthesised know-
ledge of these “innumerable minds
by seeking the freely-rendered advice
of Babcock engineers in every State
on all matters relating to steam in
industry.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS - INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
Looking lo to-morrow, we at Babcock &
'Wilcox are planning to pul to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities , . .
work to common purpose with our
British organisation , . , maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
TIME II AS VKOVF. n - TUt: SK !<]! CH OF 111 It COCK HOI IKK PLANT:
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY - - - - -
CUP DAY
OAKS STAKES - - - -
C. B. FISHER PLATE - -
SATURDAY, Ist NOVEMBER
TUESDAY, 4th NOVEMBER
THURSDAY, 6lh NOVEMBER
SATURDAY, Bth NOVEMBER
K. A. Morrison, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Concert.
As is not uncommon in Sydney the
best current stage shows are being offered
in the suburbs by amateur and semi-
professional groups. Doris Fitton’s In-
dependents are presenting Lillian Hell-
man’s “The Little Foxes” at North
Sydney, and the Mosman Musical Society
is giving “The Quaker Girl” another out-
ing at Mosman Town Hall. Both shows
are admirably done and excellent enter-
tainment.
Englishman Robert Quentin, who, since
he has been in Sydney, has produced
“Mourning Becomes Electra,” “An-
tigone,” “The Importance of Being
Earnest” and other plays, tackled “The
Little Foxes” for the Independents in a
very straightforward, practical fashion.
The production and acting are beauti-
fully keyed to the requirements of the
play, and the only criticism that could
be levelled at it is that, at times, the pro-
duction is too blunt for the subtlety of
the drama. The fetish of understatement
is too often overdone these days, but. it
is often necessary to preserve an even,
mounting dramatic tension towards the
peak of the final scene. The climax of
“The Little Foxes” is the subtle inference
that the cold, unscrupulous Regina has,
by killing her husband and outwitting
her two brothers, condemned herself to
a life of lonely self-conflict, losing even
the love and companionship of her
daughter. That climax, which must be
accomplished practically in one quietly-
spoken line, is very nearly lost in the In-
dependent production because of the
direct and almost too-obvious manner in
which the preceding scenes are presented
and acted.
The cast of “The Little Foxes” is one
of the best the Independents have got
together for a long time. Doris Fitton
as the scheming Regina, Leonard Bullen
as her dying husband, Kevin Brennan and
Norman Blackler as her two brothers,
and Madge Ryan as the unhappy, tippling
sister, all have embracing comprehension
of their roles and more than sufficient
ability to interpret them satisfactorily.
Pamela Bromley Smith’s part as Regina’s
daughter is taken by her understpdy,
June Colliss. Miss Colliss played' the
role capably enough, though she could
have invested it with a little more frailty
in the earlier scenes and a little more in-
tensity towards the finish.
Had he been present at the Mosman
Society’s production of “The Quaker
Girl,” Mr. Chifley might have quaked a
little himself on hearing, not the laughter,
but the vigorously prolonged and heart-
felt applause evoked by comedian George
Browne’s humorous sling-off at the Bank-
ing Bill. There, however, any connection
with Canberra ceases, for “The Quaker
Girl” is a most excellent thing. Making
it so are George Browne as Jeremiah and
Rhondda Baker as his offsider, Phoebe ;
Betty Parsons and Eddie Devereaux as
the leading pair and Valda McMurray
and Mark Gosbell as the associate couple.
Enid Sutton was occasionally too scream-
ingly French as Madam Blum, but gener-
ally good. The chorus and ballet girls
could show some professional troupes a
few points, and it’s a pity that the Mos-
man Town Hall’s stage did not always
give them enough room adequately to
display their charms, their tiptop costum-
ing and their ability. _
In his music Ernest Bloch is almost
always the intense Jew. His “Sacred
Service,” his “Israel” symphony, his set-
tings of the psalms and above all his
rhapsody “Schelomo” all point to the
vehement passion and the profundity of
his racial convictions. In his “Schelomo,”
which was performed for the first time
in Australia by the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra under Eugene Goossens, with
Laun Kennedy as soloist, the ’cello is
allotted the voice of Solomon (Schelomo).
The work is a curious mixture of poig-
nant utterance, frenetic, meaningless out-
pourings in fuff orchestra and some
beautiful writing for the solo instrument.
The tone evoked here by Mr. Kennedy,
especially where sombre introspection or
the prophetic utterance was to be limned,
was deep, warm and mellow. The
masterly hand of Goossens had the
orchestra in fine fettle.
Richard Strauss’s “Don Quixote,” in
which the composer attempts by means
of the variation method to recapture the
fantasy of Cervantes’ mad knight, is a
patchy work, too often impregnated,
especially where the whole orchestral
resources are employed, with a confused
gabble. Strauss is never less impressive
than when he attempts impressionism.
But when he allows his natural gift for
pure melody full rein, as in certain pas-
sages for the ’cello (the Don) and the
viola (Sancho Panza), the charm of his
music is irresistible. Lauri Kennedy and
Robert Wood handled well the colloquy
between knight and squire to the murmur-
ings of the orchestra. It was in the for-
tissimo passages for the entire orchestra,
including wind machine, that the audi-
ence found Strauss trying—as he always
is where he has a hero joss to flog in a
tone poem.
Clement Hosking, who was created a
Bard of the Gorsedd for his profound
researches into Celtic folklore and -songs,
has made the traditional air and the
folksong his especial preserve. Con-
ducting his choir at its Sydney recital last
week, Mr. Hosking culled from a wide
repertoire songs of many lands. Two
songs of London street cries, “Chairs to
Mend” and “Oranges,” were a breath
straight from the days of Nell Gwyn.
The strong cultural ties between Brittany
and Cornwall were strikingly illustrated
in two adjoining numbers; the Breton
“Fishermen’s Evening Song” and the
Cornish “Hal-An-Tow.” A little-known
Highland Lament and “A Legend of
Mullaghmast” were redolent of heather
and potheen. “Once I Was Young,” an
old Isle of Man air, and the Welsh tradi-
tional “Nos Calan” had virility with an
undercurrent of sadness. Thereafter it
was a musical Cook’s tour, from Austria
and Poland to Sweden and Switzerland —
a fascinating array of songs strongly
melodic.
The first night was revived in all its
old-time splendor at Melbourne Princess
for the opening of the Ballet Ram-
bert season. There were gallery
directors. High Court Judges, gents
in their soup and fish and ladies
showing considerably more of Nature
than appeared on the business side
of the footlights; and there were
sufficient jewels to stock a large shop and
enough flowers to start a nursery. From
the moment the curtain went up on the
traditional “Giselle” the success of the
enterprise was assured, and excitement
mounted steadily until the grand cre-
scehdo when Madame Rambert, a little
lady still nimble enough to leap over the
barrage of horticulture towards the foot-
lights, expressed her thanks to the most
discriminating audience in the Empire,
Artbursts.
Two Sydney painters, James Cant and
Francis Lymburner, have exhibitions, at
the Studio of Realist Art and the Mac-
quarie Galleries respectively. Cant is
fond of red, geometrical designs and fish.
The fish, somewhat conventionalised, are
dimly recognisable as designs and the
use of red is such that it does not violently
assault the eye, but it is necessary to
consult the catalogue for the meanings
of a considerable number of the pictures.
Lymburner’s paintings, on the other hand,
with a kind of whimsical sketchiness
and without Cant’s geometrical advan-
tages, offer nothing fresh in vision or
comprehension. Whereas Cant, at times,
is violently obscure, Lymburner is mildly
evasive. The secondary claim of Cant’s
art—that phases of it might be useful as
designs for wall-paper or linoleum —can-
not be made for Lymburner’s paintings.
In fact, there seems little to be done with
them except hang them in the N. S.
Wales National Art Gallery.
The Melbourne Society of Women
Painters has no selection committee and
members can send along two pictures.
There is no reason to suppose that the
show would be any better or any worse
if it had the services of 40 official judges,
though Lina Bryans’s “Nude” might be
missing. It is a free sketch of a girl
lying on a bed with the light streaming
through a window. It is all keyed up
but looks fresh and easy, unlike Winifred
McCubbin’s “Ann,” a girl in a red jacket
who has been severely rationed with
regard to forehead and is very tightly
painted. Kit Turner has two sensitive
impressions in “The- Cable Tram” and
“Early Morning,” and P. Hurry did more
thinking in her “Spring Street” than ever
goes on in the State talking shop, a bit
of which ( appears in the foreground.
Sculpture Is disappointing.
At the Films.
Sydney Embassy’s current offering,
“School for Secrets,” is a winner by any
standards. The film is based on the story
of the scientists who invented or devised
the various radio aids for the Air Force
during the war and, in its lightly humor-
ous and almost deprecatory recording of
momentous happenings, puts over
almost perfectly the “mood” or attitude
that pervaded the R.A.F. —that of light
bantering humor and an affected care-
lessness which cloaked the most deadly
efficiency and scientific accuracy. The
scientists —“boffins” the R.A.F. called ’em
with its genius for descriptive slang—
are played by a genial team of actors,
including Ralph Richardson, John Laurie
and Raymond Huntley, and the R.A.F. is
represented by two dry, attenuated types
who should be bottled for historical pur-
poses.
“See the Ascot Gold Cup! ” exhorted
advertisements for “The Homestretch,”
now on view at Sydney’s Regent. Any
pious punter obeying the command will
be sadly deflated, for apart from a view
of the Royal Standard fluttering in the
breeze and some English bookmakers
doing likewise at the knees, the spectacle
was as much like a Royal Ascot as the
maiden event at Bombina’s Annual Picnic
Races. On the other hand, “Bob, Son of
Battle,” Showing at the Mayfair,, is a
worthy hound. The canine acting, at its
best when Bob and fellow-tykes are
working sheep, is supported by Edmund
Gwenn, a terrifying old Scot who finally
has to shoot his dog, thus causing a
deluge among the handkerchief brigade,
and explaining the small waterfall which
poured down from the Mayfair’s circle.
In “Song of the Thin Man” (Sydney
St. James) William Powell and Myrna
Toy wend their clue-hunting way
through a succession of cocktails,
gamblers, “jive” bands and petty crooks
before lighting on the obvious villain,
who started the trouble by shooting, with
some justification, a dance-band leader.
The criminal in “The Corpse Came
C.0.D.” (Sydney Capitol) is’ a little more
difficult to spot, and George Brent and
Joan Blondell as a familiar pair of com-
peting reporters have quite a hectic time
before landing the imaginative murderer
who, after shooting an actresses’s dress
designer, has the remains consigned to
her in a packing-case.
Containing Abbott and Costello and
producing one distinct laugh (though it
might have been a snore in an unusual
key) “Buck Privates Come Home”
(Sydney Lyceum) is deplorably weak.
A typical scene has both humorists push-
ing a car, Costello at the steering-wheel.
Abbott: “Turn it to the left.”
Costello: “Left?”
Abbott: “Right.”
Costello: “But you said ‘left’.”
Abbott: “That’s right.”
“Mo” is recorded as having chewed
through the bottom of his cradle when
someone tried to amuse him with this
left-right type of humor, which was hoary
even then.


No. 19 of Series
Fireworks.
& Hr
y •
••••
e •
o\o\o
O
la
FIREWORKS suggest Guy Fawkes day, “the
sth of November and gunpowder, treason and
plot.” Yet gunpowder itself is less important in
fireworks than is generally supposed, though
chemicals like sulphur, charcoal and potassium
nitrate from which gunpowder is made, form the
basis of rockets, fountains and golden rain. The
addition of iron and steel filings or lamp-black give
a variety of beautiful effects, including those known
as “Chinese fire” and “spur fire.” Potassium
chlorate is used in making colour and smoke. Mixed
with copper compounds it gives a blue flame; with
those of strontium, sodium and barium it produces
red, yellow or green flames. The metals magnesium
and aluminium in the form of fine powders are
responsible for the dazzlingly brilliant effects of the
most modern fireworks. Practically all
the substances used by the manufac-
turers of fireworks are the products of
the British chemical industry.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment—Savings Certificates
IL-33-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
As a final run prior to the Caulfield Cup,
Columnist tackled Attley, Royal Gem and an
otherwise tiptop field over the nine furlongs of
the w.f.a. Caulfield Stakes at the midweek
meeting. Columnist won in outstanding fashion.
True, the job was made easier for him when
the riders of Attley and Royal Gem elected
to run each other into the ground, but course
record time of 1.491 spoke for itself.
. For the Cup, Columnist started a firm favor-
ite at the decent odds of 9 to 2. Next fancied
were Hiraji and Don Pedro at nines, while
Royal Gem was 10 to 1. Starter Frank
Dempsey, with memories of his own Cup wins
on Lavendo (1915), Bronzetti (1917) and
Eurythmic (1920), got the 26 runners away to
a good start with only Robert Bruce really
tardy.
Valiant Crown and Royal Scot shared the
running until Valiant Crown, no doubt suffer-
ing from the effects of a kick received at the
start, turned it in after about four furlongs.
S. Ralph had Hiraji well placed, while Badger
had the favorite nicely tucked in on the rails
further back in the field; Fresh Boy was travel-
ling along comfortably but unable to get within
coo-ee of a rails position.
With half a mile to go Propontis dashed
clear, and backers of Columnist were becoming
anxious as the favorite appeared to be solidly
hemmed in. Ralph took advantage of this,
shooting Hiraji to the lead possibly a shade
too soon, three furlongs from home. In the
straight Propontis was hanging on well, Clatter-
bag and Fresh Boy coming into the picture
and finding his way through was Columnist.
The favorite seemed to be feeling his weight,
but ran on gamely to win by a length and a
half from Hiraji, holding Fresh Boy. Further
back Propontis just shaded Clatterbag for
fourth prize of £250.
Columnist, second to Royal Gem last year,
was prepared this time by Maurice McCarten,
who strangely did not number a Caulfield Cup
among his very many successes as a rider.
Columnist is a magnificent-looking
beautifully built, and deep chestnut in color.
His sire, Genetout, ran third in the French
Derby and won other races in France and
Belgium up to 11 furlongs. In Australia
Genetout won the AJ.C. Autumn Cup over
12 furlongs. Columnist’s dam was the Marconi-
gram mare Pen Name. Time for the Cup was
2.285, against Palfresco’s course and Common-
wealth record of 2.215.
Fresh Boy, though carrying only 6.12 against
the winner’s 9st., ran an excellent race for a
three-year-old, a 14.2 pony at that. His
diminutive apprentice rider B. Fames was forced
to take him wide nearly all the way. Hiraji,
given every chance, ran his invariable honest
race. He’s well on the way to becoming a
second Silver Standard, with a record over
the past 12 months including minor places in
the Doomben Ten Thousand and Doomben
Cup, the King’s Cup and now the Caulfield
Cup. The Moonee Valley Cup will give him
a chance either to make amends or add to
his unenviable record of stiff luck.
While missing out with Hiraji, F. W. Hughes
had better luck with another of his grey
Nizamis when Nizam’s Ring (E. Swinton) took
the mile One Thousand Guineas for three-year-
old fillies. The race was mainly notable for
the utterly illogical betting. A couple of weeks
back in the Flight Stakes, a similar race at
Randwick, Shading, with a couple of runs
under her belt, started hot favorite only to
be touched off by Nizam’s Ring, who was in
need of the run. In the One Thousand Guineas,
Shading was made a 9-to-4 favorite, Del Rose
and Filgaro were at sevens, and Nizam’s Ring
at 8 to 1. Form being not quite as meaning-
less as all that, the grey filly won the Guineas
by lengths from Del Rose and Shading, and
unless the 12-furlongs trip finds a weakness she
should win the Oaks as easily. In fact, it
would be interesting to see her given a run in
the Derby.
Beau Gem, the South Australian candidate
for the Victoria Derby, didn’t show up in
the Caulfield Guineas, but with Munro up
tackled and very easily beat a rather weaker
field of three-year-olds in the mile Burwood
Handicap. Bon Tout was second and Rio Fe,
who looks capable of winning a suitable race,
third. What a wonderful brood mare is the
Oaks winner French Gem! In successive years .
she has produced Royal Gem and Crown Gem,
both by Dhoti, and now Beau Gem (by Helios).
All three are raced by G. W. Badman, who
raced French Gem.
Whatever the good points of the recently
introduced starting stalls, it’s been made pretty
obvious of late that two-year-olds don’t like
them a bit. The first division of the Gwyn
Nurspry was delayed 15 minutes while the
youngsters energetically aired their suspicions;
they’ve been having similar trouble with the
different type of stall used in Sydney, Starter
Dempsey appeared to lose patience with the
favorite Big Fox (G. Bougoure), but after
heading for the putside this Caithness colt went
back into his No. 2 position, jumped cleanly
and won well from Ralton and New India.
The second division provided further trouble,
but without the happy outcome, Derrymore
(R. Heather), at 50 to 1, downing Bartolus and
Torrent.
The Moonga Handicap over seven furlongs
gave New Zealand-bred Da Vinci (W.
son) his first local success in downing Brave
Leader and Star Act. In the Wyuna Steeple
Priority (K. Denham) accounted for Securities
and Benarca after L. Meenan had taken a nasty
spill on the favorite First Aid.
* * * *
After the running of the last of the six
races at City Tattersall’s Club’s Gold Cup
meeting at Randwick on Saturday, a lady puntep
watching them return to scale was heard muL
tering that she’d “like to have a quiet word
in Cookie’s bloomin’ ear.” Like many others
present she had seen an omen in the fact of
W. Cook having turned down good mounts
at Caulfield to ride instead at Randwick. Cook
had mounts in five races, all well backed, iq»
eluding two favorites, but third on Gay
Monarch was the closest look he had at the
money.
Well up in the weights with 8.9, Two Grand
showed signs of a return to form by running
an excellent race to finish third in the main
event of 12 furlongs. Ridden along vigorously
by Fordyce, he took the lead within the first
furlong and maintained it until headed by Pak-
tong near the distance. Paktong (F. Walker)
went on to win comfortably, and Two Grand,
though beaten also by Silent, was coming
again at the finish; last year Silent was second
to Kiaree.
Training has its pitfalls. G. Johnson, who
prepares Paktong, has had numerous lady
owners among his patrons; a few months back
he married one of them; Mrs. Johnson owns
Paktong. Paktong is a four-year-old Beau
“Calls for an explosive shot, Charlie —hand us the gelignite."
Vite gelding with whom the handicapper has
not yet caught up by a long chalk.
All round, the Randwick meeting was yet
another very bad one for the punter, with the
shortest-priced winner Tactician at 6 to 1 in
the six-furlongs George Herdsman Handicap,
for which six of the 11 runners were quoted
at prices between fives and 7 to 1. At that
it took some courage to support Tactician, who
had finished stone last in a similar field over
the same journey at his previous start. On
that occasion Earl Pentheus was the winner,
clocking 1.14. On Saturday Tactician downed
Mandova and Gay Monarch in 1.12.
F. W. Hughes has no fewer than 24 two-
year-olds in training this season. He appeared
to have a strong chance of getting some return
from the Frank Walton Two-year-old Stakes
in which three of the nine runners carried his
colors, and Court Glamour (R. Holman), a bay
Agincourt filly, did the honors for him by
downing Cadet and Barringun.
One of the three Hughes-owned runners in
the Stakes is trained, not as usual by J. W.
McCurley but by H. Darwon —a gesture of
appreciation for the frequent use the stable
has had of Darwon’s very good apprentice
T. Mullane, who was successful on Tactician
and also took the Novice on Prince Regent.
There was a flavor of Wimbledon about the
Three-year-old Handicap won by Jack Craw (R.
Selkrig). But for the rule against naming horses
after living personages the name would have
been Jack Crawford. A Nuffield colt, he’s raced
by Mrs. Crawford in partnership with G. E.
Ryder and A. Dowling, both of them also
pretty fair hands with a tennis racquet. Senti-
ment and Befanna were in the places.
The Titan horse Tamasha managed to win
three successive races before the handicapper
caught up with him, which he did by imposing
9.4 for the Welter. A much improved galloper,
Tamasha nevertheless battled on well to finish
a close third behind The Gaekwar (E. Crack-
nell) and Edinburgh.
* # * *
There was an instructive lesson for the sap-
headed (who won’t heed it) in the A.J.C. inquiry
into the handling of Good Idea in the Sydney
Handicap at Randwick during the Spring meet-
ing, As subsequently reported, bookmaker-
owner Arthur Browning stated: “I invested be-
tween £6OOO and £7OOO on Good Idea and went
for a big win on him.” This was on an ageing
entire who had his last win in a race in Queens-
land, had not won in three starts since, and
carried topweight (9.6) in the Sydney event,
in which he was ridden by a one-time hurdle
jockey (reprimanded by the stewards for in-
different handling of the horse). The moral
could be: what easy-got money it must be
which can be “invested” in that fashion.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Juvenile Stakes: Court Glamour, 1; Par-
massa, 2; Grey Nurse, 3. Fillies and Mares
Mixed Stakes (6f.): Belle Fille, 1; Befanna,
2; Robyn Lynette, 3. Mixed Stakes (6f.):
Fluent, 1; Kulnura, 2; Young Andrew, 3.
Mixed Stakes (9f.): Mamie Boy, 1; Prince
Regent, 2; Leetona, 3. Canterbury Park Handi-
cap: Silent, 1; Cisco, 2; Avalanche, 3. Fly-
ing Handicap: Deep Sea, 1; Tamaroa, 2;
Alderman, 3. Welter: Smooth Action, 1;
Tamasha, 2; Indarra, 3.
For the Moonee Valley Gold Cup: Valcurl,
1; Hiraji, 2; Open Air, 3.
* * * *
Port Adelaide Racing Club gets a new deal
in officials. Business-magnate James Gosse
resigns as chairman, and stud-owner Walter
Kidman succeeds him. The veteran S. J. Pull-
man, secretary for 34 years (and for nearly
as long of Onkaparinga), retires on account of
ill-health in favor of A. A. Lodge.
* * * *
The reason behind the V.R.C.’s recent move
in limiting doubles bookies to a this-and-the-next
principle became apparent with the announce-
ment that they can now again bet on any com-
bination of races on the day, but in the event
ef the first leg winning and the second leg
being scratched books must pay tote odds about
the successful first leg, instead of merely re-
turning punters’ stake or giving them another
pick, as in the past. Evidently a couple of
weeks of the this-and-the-next business led the
bookies to a change of heart. It is to be hoped
that other clubs follow the V.R.C. lead.
Handicapping in America is far more lenient,
or more reasonable, than it is here. Assault,
Armed and Stymie, each of whom has now
won well over half a million dollars, still get
into handicaps with less than 9.7. In fact,
few of the more important races are handicaps.
Expressing the American attitude to this, sport-
ing writer Joe E. Palmer says; “Personally I
don’t like handicaps much. It isn’t particularly
pleasant to see a great horse under 1351 b.
beaten by a Class C animal under 105. I saw
Discovery beaten under 1431 b. once and I
hope never to see anything of the sort again.”
* # * m
Rain ruined the opening of the Indian
tour; only BOmin. play was possible
on Friday, and none on Saturday, in the
match against W.A. Amarnath, winning
his first toss, sent Westralia in on the
soft pitch, and 28 runs were up for no
yygkcts when the rain came down. Keith
Carmody, W.A. captain, was in India
with the Services in 1945, scoring a
century in the first Test at Bombay. A
flight-lieut. in the R.A.A.F., he was for
over a year p.-0.-w. in Germany; and
through illness failed to strike form in
England.
* * * *
Jack Gregory’s election to the Sydney
Cricket Ground Trust continues an old
family-name association with the ground
and with cricket. Dave (captain)
and Ned Gregory were in the first
Australian XI v. England at Mel-
bourne in 1877; and on May 27,
1878, Dave Gregory’s XI staggered the
top-hats at Lords by defeating M.C.C.
Scores were M.C.C. 33 and 19, Australia
41 and 1 for 12; Spofforth took 11
wickets for 20 and Boyle 8 for 17. Seven
Gregory brothers played for N.S.W.
Jack Gregory, now 54, came to light with
the A.I.F. team in 1919, a grand all-
rounder.
* * * ♦
The Wallabies’ line has not been crossed
in their last five matches, their latest
victim being Cumberland-Yorkshire, a
weak team. Scores, 25-nil. Cawsey did
well as half, and Broad —taken over as
five-eighth—as centre; but the backs have
not penetrated or combined well, and
probably need reinforcements. Some of
the lads have been definitely on the
passenger list. Piper continues to be the
Australians’ best bet as full-back, and
they would probably be in a pretty pickle
if he were injured. There are stern tussles
ahead, the team having gone back to
Wales.
* * * *
Before a record crowd of more than
40,000 S.A.F.L. ' premiership went to
West, which won its first flag for 20
years by downing the favorites, Norwood,
by five goals. In Tassie, North Laun-
ceston eclipsed North Hobart to win its
first State premiership for 41 years.
* * * *
It took a woman to win the only worth-
while singles title collected by the official
and unofficial teams of Australian tennis
players who’ve been batting their way
round the globe. At Mexico City Mrs.
Bolton beat Mary Prentiss of Los Angeles
6-2, 6-3 to take the Pan-American
women’s singles title. A pity leading
American women players can’t be per-
suaded to visit here ; they’d give Mrs. Bol-
ton the practice against worthy opponents
which is all she needs to be a world-
beater,
♦ * * ♦
Hailing from Newcastle, stamping
ground of good scrappers, Mickey Tollis
(9.8) advanced his claims to taking over
the Patrick mantle by outing Les Fuller
(9.8 J) in the seventh round of their Mel-
bourne Stadium meeting. Tollis punched
clean and hard all through, and his k.o.
punch was a clinker.
* * * *
In an exciting 12-rounder at Leichhardt
Queensland flyweight “Stumpy” Butwell
(7.13) fought too fast for Jimmy Hogg
(7.101), reversing the result of their en-
counter in Brisbane last March. With
swift lefts to the face and both hands to
the body, Butwell had an edge in pretty
well every round, winning on points.


pzom/m
TOR YO(/R
FAM/LY’O
TUTOR*
m
||l|
i
i ■
A man’s first obligation to his wife and
family is to arrange that there shall be a clean
slate in the event of his death; to make sure, at
least, that, as his widow, his wife will have the
money to pay his debts.
The second obligation is to provide his
widow and children with a regular income, be-
ginning at his death and continuing as long
thereafter as his earnings will allow him to
arrange.
The third obligation is to provide for his
own old age.
Where do you stand, sir, in regard to these
obligations? You can arrange to meet the three
of them through membership in the A.M.P. Ask
the nearest A.M.P. office to explain just how this
can be done. Ring or write to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Security Through Co-operation
Principal Board:
CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman.
SIR FREDERICK H. TOUT, Deputy Chairman.
J. HUBERT FAIRFAX, W. A. MACKAY, DR. S. A. SMITH,
SEPTIMUS G. ROWE. HON. T. A. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pin STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ŵ
THE
Handy Box
for a
Thousand Uses
linches
LONG
7j inches
DEEP
Two rope handles and lid, bound at each end with Hoop Iron.
Price: 1/6 each. 15/- per dozen. £7 per gross
F.O.R. Albury
Many other items. Write for our Catalogue
BAKER MOTORS
478 OLIVE STREET, ALBURY
Telephone Nos. 629 and 122 f
Business, Rollery, Etc.
LABOR'S ONE BIG BANK.
The power-drunk “Labor” party at
Canberra has given Australia a clear ex-
ample of its ideas of democracy, justice
and freedom of enterprise in its Banking
Bill, and Speaker Rosevear has added
emphasis to its principle that political
might is right.
Both the people and Parliament
have been treated with contempt,
The “Government” will not submit the
banking question to the people by refer-
endum even though there is the strongest
evidence that public opinion is almost two
to one against the nationalisation pro-
posal, and the Opposition minority gets
short shrift when attempting to establish
its rights during the debates. The Labor
attitude is: “We have the numbers in
both Houses, and we’ll do what we like.”
It is typical of petty tyrants who weigh-in
light with principles and real ability.
But the questions being so intemper-
ately decided are not petty. The bank-
ing legislation is’far-reaching in the ex-
treme, and it has received world-wide
attention—as well as almost universal
condemnation. The 1945 banking law
gave the Treasury direct control of the
Commonwealth Bank by removing the
independent board, and the present bill
aims to give the Commonwealth Bank
complete ownership of the trading banks,
The pressure groups and vested interests
that decide the policy of the Labor Gov-
ernment will thus be placed in a position
to dictate the policy of the entire bank-
ing system of Australia, and to use
coercion against industry and enterprise
of all kinds, regardless of lilywhite “in-
tentions” professed now.
Apart from the danger of the
usual selfish, shortsighted and class-
conscious “Labor” exploitation of the
nation regardless of ultimate results
there is the peril of treacherous Com-
munist infiltration of our entire economic
system. Great damage has already been
done on the production side. The country
is only staggering along industrially; and
Communists, accepted by “Labor,” are
very largely to blame.
The 1945 banking legislation is un-
satisfactory, and Mr. Menzies, if returned
to power, is pledged to remove political
control of the Commonwealth Bank.
That done, there is no reason why the
Commonwealth Bank should not function
with the complete powers of a central
bank, and in full competition with the
trading banks.
Mr. Chifley, in introducing his present
One-Big-Bank Bill, said the , opponents
of the legislation had accepted the 1945
Act to the extent of making it “their
rallying cry whilst preparing themselves
once again to die in the last ditch against
a new,, logical and necessary develop-
ment.” It is unlikely that Mr. Chifley
really believes that, or many other state-
ments he made in his introductory speech,
It is certainly untrue. A statement that
has been made by opponents of the
present legislation to the effect that the
Commonwealth Bank has adequate
power under the 1945 law cannot be
taken as approving political control of
the central bank itself, which was the
main danger seen in the 1945 Act.
The One-Big-Bank Bill presented by
Mr. Chifley on Wednesday of last week
is as monopolistic and completely con-
fiscatory as anyone feared. Banking is to
be made the plaything of politics, like
industry and industrial law have been
made political playthings. The Govern-
ment is to take to itself great coercive
powers, and no citizen can consider him-
self unaffected.
The bill provides for (1) the voluntary
or compulsory acquisition of the Aus-
tralian business and assets of the trading
banks, or (2) compulsory acquisition of
shares. Assets within Australia can, if
the legislation is held valid, be acquired
compulsorily whether the banks are
in Australia or London, and
overseas assets of Australian-domiciled
banks can also be taken over. Under the
second process the Treasurer is em-
powered to acquire bank shares compul-
sorily where the majority of them are
held in the Commonwealth,
Only two months’ notice will be given
to banks. If they agree voluntarily to sell
to the Government there will be a taxa-
tion exemption on the purchase considera-
tion. But—and here is a shining illustra-
tion of the tyranny and coercion that may
be expected on a greater scale if the bill
becomes operative—if the assets are
acquired compulsorily “these concessions
will not apply.”
Though “fair and reasonable com-
pensation” is to be paid, accord-
ing to the Prime Minister, the
matter will be dealt with by a Federal
Court of Claims specially established for
the purpose. The Judges of the Court,
according to the bill, will be appointed
by W, J. McKell, former Labor Premier
of N. S. Wales and now Governor-
General. The Judges may be of any
standing from a present Judge of a
Federal Court down to a solicitor of a
State Supreme Court. The bill provides
(Section 34); —■
A judgment or order of the Court —■
(d) Shall be final and conclusive;
(6) Shall not be subject to an appeal to the
High Court;
(c) Shall not be challenged, appealed against,
reviewed, quashed or called in question
in any Court on any account whatever;
(d) Shall not be subject to prohibition, man-
damus or injunction in any Court on
any account whatever;
( e ) Shall, in all Courts and for all purposes,
be conclusive and binding on all persons
affected thereby.
Whether such a Star Chamber can so
sidetrack the High Court will no doubt
be challenged as a constitutional issue,
as will the validity of the entire bill, when
enacted. Section 92 and freedom of
trade, commerce and intercourse between
the States still represents a major obstacle
to the financial revolutionaries.
Payment of compensation, to be made
in cash or bonds, “as desired,” will be a
matter for the Commonwealth Bank to
attend to, and will be achieved by an
exchange of bonds or cash for bank net
assets or shares. So far as the payment
of cash is concerned it will amount to
credit expansion, and the whole acquisi-
tion will be carried out largely by medium
nf bank credit. The central bank has
not the reserves of its own necessary to
finance the deal. It will be using de-
positors’ money, not capital.
Mr. Chifley pleads that there will be
“no interruption or disturbance” to the
banking community during the change-
over from public to Government control.
And when the One Big Bank operates it
will be “charged under the legislation to
be strictly impartial as between customers
and to avoid all discrimination....
A person who considers he has not had
reasonable treatment from a local
manager will be able to refer his case
to a regional authority for reconsidera-
tion.” There was loud derisive laughter
in the House when the Prime Minister
made this announcement. The Govern-
ment’s record in this respect is well
known.
Upon acquiring control of the shares
or assets of a bank the existing directors
will be dismissed with compensation not
exceeding two years’ remuneration. The
Commonwealth Bank, with the approval
of the Treasurer, will appoint the new
board, who shall hold office “notwith-
standing any lack of qualification or any
disqualification arising under any law,
charter or other instrument.” Donald
Grant, author of Through Six Jails,
would be an eligible director.
The rights of trading-bank employees
taken over by the Commonwealth Bank
shall be decided by a committee compris-
ing a Judge of the Court of Claims, an
officer of the Commonwealth Bank and a
third person, “as prescribed,” who will
represent trading-bank employees.
Mr. Chifley has made the promise that
secondary industries will be able to
turn to the bank [One Big Bank] for
assistance of production engineers and
cost accountants to help them with their
problems. Primary industries will have
the aid of agricultural experts.” If the
cost accountants derive from the Prices
Branch and the agricultural experts from
the Wheat Board, producers will be soon
clamoring to be left alone with their
problems.
Mr. Chifley devoted a considerable part
of his speech to misrepresenting the part
the trading banks have played in Aus-
tralia’s economic affairs in good times
and bad. He said that “the banks fed
the boom and promoted unsound develop-
ment in the ’twenties,” adding that “they
helped but little in recovery during the
’thirties, waiting rather for improvement
to come from other sources instead of
taking the initiative and promoting re-
covery.”
This statement, apart from being
largely incorrect, reveals the Prime
Minister’s almost naive faith in the
powers of financial manipulation: it
shows that he believes prosperity can be
attained by financial jugglery, especially
of an inflationary character, and helps to
explain why he has ignored the realities
of our present production depression that
exists in spite of a redundancy of money.
Immediately prior to the introduction of
the One-Big-Bapk Bill Dame Enid Lyons
was gagged when attempting to discuss
the present depression in output of those
things which go to make up our living
standard.
Mr. Chifley, following the line of Mr.
W. C. Taylor, discussed the subject of
“secondary inflation” that could occur
if bank deposits already used for-
cibly by the Government to finance war
waste are again used for commercial or
industrial purposes by a competitive
banking system.
The point that is not mentioned is that
before there can be a “secondary” any-
thing there must be a primary one ; and
the truth is that there has been inflation
—gross primary inflation—in all the
“Labor” Government’s budgeting,
whether for peace or war. It has “fed
the boom”, that has brought us paper
money “prosperity” and a payroll form
of full employment. It has been a consent-
ing party to the severe inflation that has
c-wcurred in production costs arising from
the fall in production per man per hour in
industry. “Labor” has built up the most
ominous economic threat that this country
has ever seen, made the more ominous
by the palpable industrial demoralisation
apparent in key industries.
Drunk with Parliamentary power and
credit inflation the Chifley Ministry is
taking reckless swigs at legislative and
economic bottles'. It has gone so far that
it cannot sober up; its intemperance and
recklessness grow progressively worse.
And while it ties up the economic life
of the community more and more in
bolstering up its own condition, restrict-
ing industrial initiative and undermining
the rule of law, that evil thing Com-
munism gains increasing influence over
the destiny of the whole community.


ẁ
130 YEARS OF
STABLE
BANKING POLICY
A quarter of a century before representative
government was introduced in the colony of
New South Wales, the Bank of New South
Wales was established.
Through all the constitutional and administra- .
tive changes of the past 130 years, this Bank
has adapted its services to the ever changing
economic needs of the community.
The Bank’s stable and progressive policy has
safe-guarded its depositors, supported its
borrowers in good and bad times and has been
a vital factor in the maintenance of financial
stability in times of economic stress.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(Incorporated in New Sooth Wales with limited liability)
A4707D
Everybody^
snapping it
now/1
For the driver of the • lw If •
Spirit of Progress and the driver of
a pre-war cab . . . It’s a real "Break"
to "SNAP" into a man-size block of Small’s Club
Chocolate because it’s "not so
Remember the louder the "SNAP” the better
the chocolate . . . And Small’s Club
Chocolate gives out with a
good loud "SNAP" every
time.
wm
4p
1
i
ft
N -
We girls go for that purest
of pure chocolate flavour,
too. Small’s every time.
Small's make great Chocolate
The Disposals Commission
There has been evidence for a long
while that the disposal of surplus Com-
monwealth property has not always been
carried out with fairness to the customer
or to the best advantage of the taxpayer.
Some buyers appear to have had remark-
able advantages over others, on occa-
sions, and proceeds of sales have been
whisked away officially in ways which
mislead the public when the Govern-
ment accounts are presented. The Dis'-
posals Commission is under the general
administration of the Minister for Supply
and Shipping (Senator Ashley).
The commission has appointed Gov-
ernment departments and authorities to
act as agents' in selling its stock, within
certain monetary limitations. The Audi-
tor-General (Mr, Joyce) has commented
as follows:
The policy of the commission is stated
to be directed towards an orderly and
widespread distribution of surplus goods
at fair market prices and under conditions
that will not prejudice the national economy
and the achievement of full employment in
the post-war period. To give effect to this
policy the following principles have been
laid down to govern the dealings of the
commission’s executives and its agent de-
partments and authorities:—
(a) Where suitable, goods will, in the
first instance, be made available to the
Commonwealth and State Government de-,
partments and instrumentalities prior to
being made available to the public.
{b) Subject to observance of the principle
outlined in (a), goods shall be offered for
public sale as follows:
(1) Distribution through trade channels by
arrangement with recognised trade or-
ganisations and at prices fixed or based
on Prices Commissioner’s determination.
(2) Sale by public tender.
(3) Sale by auction.
(4) Sale by private treaty, but only when
it is established beyond reasonable doubt
that this is the only practicable course.
(c) All sales will be at fair market price;
wherever necessary, disposal prices shall be
arranged in consultation with the Prices
Commissioner and price-control provisions
shall be observed wherever they may be
operative.
The Auditor-General adds: “Sale by
public auction has been used extensively
by the commission as a disposals medium
for used goods, non-com-
mercial stocks, scrap materials, special
war equipment, land, buildings and
plant. Auctioneers have been appointed
in consultation with auctioneers’ associ-
ations, and are remunerated on a com-
mission or agreed percentage basis'. The
commission exercises an overall control
of auctions.”
The commission has handled disposals
for the United Kingdom, some Do-
minions, and the U.S.A. Stores' were
established in 1945 to hold residues, Mr,
Joyce comments: “Audit examinations
conducted at certain stores disclosed the
accounting records to be inadequate, and
representations were made to the com-
mission and the controlling department.
Remedial measures have not been applied,
but the matter is receiving attention.”
During the two years 1944-45 and
1945-46 statistical records compiled from
returns by agencies gave total disposals
at £51,591,597, This total “is not recon-
cilable” with “credits from Disposals
Commission” for the following reasons,
the Auditor-General says: “Proceeds on
account of other Administrations are
credited to Trust Fund Other Trust
Moneys ; proceeds from sale of assets
purchased from a trust account are
credited to that account:; sales on ac-
count of other than war departments are
credited to the revenue of the depart-
ment concerned ; payments by purchasers
in many instances are not necessarily
made in the year of sale ; and in some
instances Cabinet approved of the trans-
fer of goods between departments' with-
out financial adjustment.”
There are, obviously, some rag-time
features about the commission’s activities.
Newspaper reports, apparently based on
some dfficial source, say sales by the
commission to June, 1947, exceeded £lOO
million. Before the war an entire Com-
monwealth Budget never encompassed a
sum like £lOO million. Yet Cabinet ap-
parently doesn’t think it necessary even
to let the people have a proper account
of disposals each year. It has certainly
found it convenient to use disposals pro-
ceeds to understate its departmental ex-
penditures.
Sales themselves have often been very
unsatisfactory, and the Opposition has
been justified, in pressing for an inquiry.
Paragraph (c) of Mr. Joyce’s foregoing
comments is almost amusing; but it is
probably not within his province to in-
vestigate breaches by the Government of
its own price-fixing regulations.
It has been cabled that the aver-
age weekly steel output in Britain for
September was a record at 266,200 tons
—a rate of 13.8 million tons a year. This
is the first time since 1939 that it has
looked like pre-war production of either
steel or pigiron and ferro-alloys being
exceeded, and there is a poor stretch
early this year to be made up before the
year’s total will compare favorably with
1939 output. British coal production is
down about 20 n.c. compared with 1939,
cement and brick outturn is slow to re-
cover, and cotton-textile output is barely
half that of pre-war years. Output of
rayon yarn has increased, and motor-
vehicle production is considerably greater
than the highest pre-war figures. But,
considering the demand that exists for all
British products, overall output of indus-
try is unsatisfactory. There are about
4 .p.c. more people engaged in manufac-
turing than in 1939. Manpower is un-
doubtedly a factor in Britain’s slow re-
covery, but the coal position is funda-
mental, even though it in part is affected
by manpower considerations, too.
* * * *
Profit of Maoriland’s State-owned
Bank of New Zealand reached £435,250
for the year ended March, the first full
year since shareholders were bought out,
and the best since £461,909 was earned
six years ago. The latest figures have
the benefit of large reductions in rates
and taxes, otherwise profits would have
been lower than in the preceding term,
which was partly one of shareholder-
ownership. Ordinary dividend is 7 p.c.
Advances are 45.08 p.c. of deposits,
against 81.6 p.c. in the pre-war year.
Finance Minister Nash, in his report to
Parliament, says the bank’s position is
highly liquid, but there is no profit in
holding so much money. Advances are
starting to respond to post-war trade
recovery, but high costs, wages and prices,
halting industry and a slow flow of goods
are revealing inflation. M.L.’s Govern-
ment wants to hold the rein on bank
credit by turning borrowers away from
the banks to outside channels where share
capital and other money is to be sopght,
so no speeding-up in advances seems
likely. Buoyant payments for exports are
counted on to keep M.L. pockets filled
while banks struggle to maintain stability
against strong pressure from underneath ;
but bankers aren’t finding it easy to
restrain the influence of bulging coffers.
* * * *
If the Federal Government appoints a
Royal Commission to inquire into the ad-
ministration of real-estate controls gener-
ally taxpayers are assured of value for
the money that will be spent conducting
the inquiry. Real-estate dealings repre-
sent the axis of one of the biggest black-
markets in Australia today, and the Lush
case raised queries on the administra-
tive side that warrant a complete lifting
of the lid. Lots of people have their own
particular story to tell to the right
authority.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Oliver Filter”: The hamlet at Sawyer’s
Crossing was completely isolated by
floods, and the only contact we had with
the place was by ’phone to the police
sergeant. For a while he gave a steady,
informative and unexcited report of the
situation as the waters continued to rise.
By the third day, however, a note of im-
patience had crept into his voice, and his
asperity seemed to increase each time we
rang for a progress report. Finally he
made the situation very clear: “Look —
my sheds are gone and my fence is gone;
my garden’s gone, my cow has gone and
my fowls have gone. All I’ve got left
are my bloody ducks, and if you think I’m
going to stand here up to my waist in
water answering your damnfool ques-
tions while I lose them, too, y’ can go to
hell.” That was the last message we had
from Sawyer’s until the floods subsided.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; It is sheer heresy, of
course, but I must admit to a sneaking
fondness for watching the antics of the
sparrow. Even his fights are interest-
ing—if only for the filth he works in.
The little fellow I was watching on the
outer-suburban railway-station hopped
into a flower-bed and emerged with a slug.
A remnant refused to leave the equivalent
of the upper lip. After five or six futile
attempts to shake the piece off “sprog”
flew to the top of a drinking bubbler and
solved his problem by drinking a few
draughts of the water that brimmed to
the top of the narrow jet. Several seconds
later a pompous-looking man turned on
the jet and drank copiously. He was un-
commonly like a bombastic individual
who once objected to the drinking facili-
ties on our little country station. A
canvas waterbag and enamelled mug were,
according to the visitor, positively un-
hygienic—not like the drinking bubblers
on Sydney stations.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Dad woke in the early-morn-
ing hours, remembered he hadn’t set the
alarm, and felt for a light. “Mum! Hey,
Mum! ” he called. “Where’s the matches?”
Mum woke with a start, “I didn’t have
them, Dad. P’raps you put them on the
dressing - table,” she suggested. Dad
blundered across the floor, and fumbling
noises were followed by a crash. Mum
jumped out of bed. “It’s that big bottle
of oil,” she mourned. “Now I sup-
pose it’s run all down into the
drawer of good clothes. I wonder if
you left the matches out on the stove.
Dad.” There was a noisy passage to the
kitchen, punctuated by violent outbursts.
“Well, they ain’t there,” accused the old
bloke, on his return. “Surely y’ c’n
remember” “They might be in your
coat pocket.” “Well, where is me flamin’
coat?” Mum located the garment. “Yes,
here they are, Dad.” She struck a match
and held out the box. “Ah!” There
was a grunt of satisfaction. “Just the
same, there weren’t no need f’r you t’ be
disturbed,-Mum,” he remonstrated. “If
y’d only told me where they were in the
first place I c’d easy ’a’ got ’em meself.”
* * * *
“Zake”: He was a real tough bush
character, with a dial to match, and his
nickname of Thimble appeared at first
sight to be apt. He looked exactly
the type that got around small country
shows, and one could easily imagine him,
ever with a furtive eye for the John, the
while he separated the come-ons from
their coin with thimble-and-pea. But the
cognominal prefix, I found, had nothing
to do with the illegal sport —he was, in
fact, a non-gambler. I didn’t discover
the real reason for his nickname until I
saw him pull out his pipe. The thimble
went on his right forefinger after it was
well alight, and he used it to push down
the tobacco in the hot bowl all the time
he smoked. He’d been doing it for years.
“Anketell”: “Loc” (B. 1/10*47), in
spite of himself, is perilously close to the
truth in his on the effects
of human sweat on dogs. Next time he
is confronted with what looks like a man-
eating hound he should try rubbing his
hands in his armpits and then letting
the dog sniff his fingers. The effect is
miraculous —although the tyke will not
sign a peace pact then and there it will
at least drop any carnivorous intentions
and become curious and watchful, if a
little suspicious, A handler of R.AA.F.
guard dogs put me on to the lurk —there’s
always the risk, of course, that the dawg
will swallow the proffered hand in one
gulp without stopping to smell it.
* * * *
“Meekatharra”: “Billo’s” enthusiasm
for the petrol-drum and its uses (B.
8/10/’47) must have misled him into
exaggerating its capacity—Bo gallons, he
says. I’vf rolled and stacked thousands
of the things (filled with high-octane) in
Air Force fuel dumps, and I’ve never
seen one that would hold more than 44
gallons. Manhandling the 44-gallon size
is hard work, even when you have the
knack of it; an 80-gallon container
would be a proper so-and-so. Any-
“A bit higher, Jacko ."
way, aren’t they better known as “44-
gallon drums” than “petrol-drums”?
* * * *
“Ben C.”: “Colonial Cove” (B.
8/10/’47) had better not let old
Bob Kaleski hear him say that “the
dingo certainly did come from Asia, for
in the foothills of the Himalayas still live
its cousins, the barkless, pack-hunting
Dhole, the wild dog of India.” Kaleski,
who has spent his life studying dog-lore
and breeding dogs, said in his Aus-
tralian Barkers and Biters that the
dingo is the ancestor of all dogs, and
repeats it in his latest book, Dogs of the
World:
Edgeworth David, the world authority on
Australian geology, places the age of our
pliocene-tertiary formations at seven mil-
lion years. It is therefore obvious that, as
the perfect forms of our present-day dingo
existed in the pliocene-tertiary period, it
must be at least three million years old
This makes it immeasurably older than any
known species of dogs Our dingo went
up through New Guinea and the other
islands to India and branched out into
the three red dogs the Buausa of Nepal,
the Dhole of the plains and the jungle
Koola.
Sit down, sit down —it’s Kaleski who says
it, not me!
* * * ♦
“Elgin”: The boss of our W.Q. station
never bothers himself about deticking his
dogs himself—he simply whistles up
Blackie, an elderly Orpington whose
gammy leg is a souvenir of an optimistic
but unsuccessful stoush with a draught-
horse. As each mong is held down
Blackie, with relish, extracts and gobbles
up the blood-fanciers. Her beakwork is
the poetry of motion..
* * * •
“Flip”; Situated with a slight slant to-
wards baulk in the back of Riley’s
barber-shop is Bombina’s only billiard-
table. The boys cherish it like an ageing
god, and any classy shots which, ill-per-
formed, might jeopardise its ageing pelt
are frowned upon. So, when a stranger
entered eating from a bag of bananas
and tossed a skin on to the cloth, a roar
went up against the sacrilege. Riley
himself went over, spoke strong words
to the infidel, and came back remarking
that the banana-eater must be
“Reckoned he thought we were playin’
some kind of golf and was laying us a
hazard.” That game finished, Riley
called for tenders on a “two-bob in,” and
the stranger asked if he could play. Per-
Alf Barnet tried to give
him some hope against the local sharks
by carefully showing him that he might
get better results by not holding his cue
like a cricket-bat. When the newcomer’s
turn came round he finished the game in
two minutes, knocking up his hundred
with cannons and providing a staggering
finish by sinking all three pills. As he
put up his cue, pocketed the kitty and
started on another banana the stranger
declared: “Well, it ain’t a bad sort of
game—think I’ll stick to marbles though.
Lasts longer.” He gave his first sign of
a grin.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; In Ballarat we heard
of a fencing job out towards Bungaree
and headed that way. At Bungaree they
told us it was a wages-and-keep job.
Usually we did our fencing by contract,
but being short of cash we decided to go
out and have a look at it. “It ain’t the
wages so much as the keep,” Mat said.
“If y’re tuckerin’ yourselves y’ ain’t got
nothin’ to growl about if the tucker s a
bit crook, but when the tucker’s part of
y’r wages it’s different.” We found the
place and made for the house, but Mat
stopped when he sighted a stack of pump-
kins on a shed roof. Instead of going to
the front door he went to the back,
looked at a heap of cooked pump-
kin rind and made for the road before
anyone could speak to us. “I bin caught
before at these joints,” he said. “Pump-
kin for breakfast, dinner an’ tea ; pump-
kin pie on Sundees an’ pumpkin scones
for mornin’ an’ afternoon-tea. Not for
mine.” “But” I began. “Look,” he
interrupted, and pulled the Ballarat
“Courier” from his hip-pocket and
showed me the market paj,e and the
headline: “Big Fall in Pumpkin Prices.”
“Yair,” Mat said, as we tramped along.
“It pays t’ use your eyes, son.”
* * * *
“Camsa”: The allegation by jealous
Eastern State stockraisers that South Aus-
tialian bulls are sissy creatures, the result
of being raised on a diet of pansies, is
refuted by the performance of a Jersey
which, with two heifers, was in a horse-
drawn trailer that was hit by a shunting
train when crossing the Panina yards.
Summers, the owner of the bull, jumped
clear and the heifers were thrown out.
Ferdinand was carried along the line for
250 yards. No doubt to impress his brace
of flapper friends he made light of his
adventure, and, with only some hair miss-
ing and a few scratches, he went on to the
Brown’s Well Show and landed second
prize for the under-two-years Jersey sec-
tion. That’s what he thinks of Playford’s
trains!
♦ * * ♦
“Bogaduck”: In addition to the signs
mentioned by “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
1/10/’47) as indicating where the Malay
sea-rovers used to camp along our north-
ern coast, there is one which is quite
unmistakable —the tamarind-tree. When
I was teaching soldiers how to find
food and fresh water in an emergency, I
found that a clump of tamarinds in any
bay or estuary would indicate a good
anchorage and a supply of fresh water
close at hand. A closer search and inquiry
of abos would confirm that it was a spot
where “Macassarman sit down.” What
I couldn’t make out for a long time, how-
ever, was the absence of coconut palms;
plenty of ripe nuts were all the time
drifting ashore. A missionary enlightened
me. “The natives comb the beaches
for nuts washed ashore and eat
every one; if by chance they miss one
and it starts to grow, they kill it by
removing and eating its heart. I
planted out hundreds and all met the
same fate. Even when I showed them
those growing here in the Mission Station
garden, bearing ripe nuts, and told them
that they could have thousands of nuts
whenever they wanted them by letting
the palms grow, they still destroyed
them.” I confirmed this when I
flew on transport planes along our north-
ern coasts; you could sometimes travel
for 50 miles without sighting a single
growing coconut palm, except in areas
where the natives have been gone for
years.
“Gravelsnatcher” is wrong in
describing that slender, straight pine as
“Puan.” “Pohon” means tree in Malay,
no matter what the species may be, and
“Pohon tiang” (Mast-tree) is probably the
one he means.
* * * *
“One J.” from the sting country:
In the early spring I noticed that one of my
bee colonies contained an excessive number
of male bees. Opening the hive, I found
hundreds of young bees emerging from theft
cells and more hundreds clustered on the combs
—all drones. Eggs and larva in all stages of
development were present and all in worker
cells. The queen was a dark-brown creature not
in the least like the orange-colored., well-
developed queen of a few months back. Obvi-
ously the colony had lost its former queen
and had raised another. Drones not being
tolerated in the hive in winter, the mateless queen
had produced progeny, but drones only. After
leaving the colony undisturbed for seven days
I found a greatly decreased number of workers
and a corresponding increase in drones. I
removed the queen. Three days later a queen
cell had been started over a cell containing a
young larva and a copious supply of royal
jelly provided. Ten days later the partly-
broken cell contained a dead drone in the
pupal stage. Thus ended the hopeless attempt
on the part of the bees to re-queen their colony
by changing the sex of one of their infants.
* * ♦ ♦
“Veti”; Supporters of the theory that
vegetation does not affect rainfall should
be interested in the results of experiments
conducted on the wheatfields of Egypt.
It was found that the amount of
water transpiration per wheat plant each
day averaged three pints, equivalent to
50 tons of water an acre per day. Water
stored in the soil is absorbed by the plant
roots, and eventually evaporates through
minute pores in the leaves. By this
mechanism water to be given off to the
air is brought up from the subsoil, while
the covering of foliage keeps to a mini-
mum the evaporation from the surface
soil.
* * * ♦
“E. 2”: Was riding with Dan in his
old utility when we came to the deep
pothole in the lane leading to his place.
Dan accelerated, hit the bump at the edge
with two boneshaking jars as front and
rear wheels bounced over. “That’s the
council f’r y’,” Dan growled, “Must be
six munce since 1 had a go at ’em t’ git
that fixed.” “Hard on the ute,” I
suggested, for the terror was limping
badly on its springs. “It’d pay t’ take a
shovel t’ that hole fr half an hour an’
fill it in.” Dan threw me a sidelong
glare. “What, me do it!” he said. “I
pay me rates t’ the council fr gittin’ them
things done, don’t I? They’ve cost me
enough in damage t’ me truck already,
without me havin’ t’ turn round an’ do
their work f’r ’em. No, I’d see the little
bus rattle t’ pieces before I’d lift a hand
t’ help those mis’rable cows on the
council.”
* • • •
“Wippegong”: “Zake” (B. 24/9/’47),
in limiting his avian nocturnal serenaders
to a quartet, has overlooked that bird
whose night-song combines the wail of
the banshee with the laughter of the
moon, and weaves them both into the
song of the night wind —the curlew him-
self. If ever a song caught the spirit of
the dark hours, that’s it. And what of
the swans winging across the moonpath,
their conversation fading as the formation
moves to new water? Or wood-duck
gabbling to each other as they come out
on the grass after dark? The graceful
stilts, tod, work their inter-comm. con-
tinuously as they fly at night, their soft
yapping taking one back to drowsy days
on the Reef, where the bridled terns
sound more like pups than seabirds. But
for sheer boredom the cuckoos are worst.
In daytime they’re glum enough, but
most of them winge through the night,
too, and the doleful “pee-e-e, pee-e-e,
pee-e-e” of the bronze, with its hopeless
downward inflection, is surpassed for
maddening monotony only by the larger
member of the family, the koel, now
coming down from the tropics. With the
approach of the nesting; —or foisting
season, this cuckoo and his missus shriek
at each other all day and most of the
night; anyone who stayed at the Anzac
Club in Calcutta as the monsoon
approached will remember that even a
possie under the big fan was not sufficient
to ensure a good sleep when koels by the
score were yelling in the figs outside.
SEA-WAIF.
You hear your homeland calling,
Her songs are in your dreams—
The glory of her mountains,
The magic of her streams,
The music of her voices,
The laughter and the tears —
Ah, yes, men hear their homelands
Call to them down the years.
The memories of the homeland
Are bedded in the heart,
Deep down, yet ever ready
At some old song to start
To life from idle dreaming—
But no songs come to me,
I hear no far land calling
For I was born at sea.
The tale is half-forgotten,
Only the record tells,
“Down in the Southern Ocean
Between two parallels.”
’Twas in a tempest maybe—
The sea’s song and the gale’s
Wild trumpetings of anger,
The thunder of the sails..,
Sometimes in* dreams I see her,
The ship where I was born,
As men see snowy mountains
And meadowlands and corn.
So when the world seems foreign
And men for homelands yearn,
I see a tall ship sailing
Where 1 can ne’er return.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Come on, Bill, Well fix that later — it's time
for smoke-o."
“Bo”: The blissful period of the
engagement had drawn in to the inevi-
table and dreaded approach to the wed-
ding preliminaries, and young Harry, out
on the cattle-run, had, as it were, been
yarded into the necessity for filling in a
form. Surname, Christian name,- address
and occupation were comparatively easy ;
then he struck a real snag: condition. He
didn’t notice the asterisk at the end of
the word and consequently didn’t trace it
to the bottom of the form to see that it
referred to “bachelor, spinster, widowed
or divorced.” Harry scratched his head ;
then understanding came to him. He felt
his biceps, thumped his chest, then wrote
down the one word; “Prime.”
* * * *
“G’roper”: “Old-timer’s” mention of
Trundle (N.S.W.) having the widest main
street in the world (B. 24/9/’47) em-
phasises that curious obsession of our
town-planners of yesterday. Kalgoorlie,
one of the most sun-blasted spots on the
face of the earth, has a fine wide
main street; and so has just about every
other township on the whole W.A. gold-
fields, each wide enough for a bullock-
team and wagon to turn in. The idea is
all wrong. Those streets, including that of
Trundle, ought all be narrow. First, there
is the matter of coolness, A narrow street
with just about any sort of buildings re-
ceives shade from one side or the other
through quite a portion of the daylight
hours. Then the question of main-
tenance. How that luxurious wideness
churns to dust under the pressure of
traffic and sun! On the other hand, streets
in cold, wet climates should be wide to
permit the maximum amount of sunshine,
both for warmth and also to dry up the
general sloppiness of the road. Sturt-
street, Ballarat, is a good example of
wise planning in this regard.
* * * *
“Dong”: Golfers, when making
their initial swipe on our N.Q. course,
must beware the slice. If they don’t, they
will certainly land in a forest of notice-
boards which state generally that a dim
view will be taken of
any dogs found on
the course. These
notices were planted
shortly after Bubba
Graham played his
first and only game
of golf. Bubba’s
pointer, well trained
in his hereditary
profession, followed
his boss out to the
first tee and, al-
though obviously be-
wildered that this
antique single-shot
affair had replaced
the honored “twelve-
gauge,” he gave a
snort and “pointed”
towards the green.
Bubba connected
with the pill and the
hound was away.
Finding nothing de-
funct and bearing
feathers, the dog did
the next-best thing
and picked up the
pill, intent on return-
ing the ammo to his
boss. Bubba was
ropable and • said so in a voice
which made them spill things at
the nineteenth; the dog heard, too,
and kept his distance. Then an
amazingly bright idea struck Bubba ; and
he strolled up towards the green, now
whistling and coaxing his dog in kindly
terms. The noble animal came over ana
dropped the ball at his master’s feet, six
inches from the cup. As Bubba took out
his putter to sink it a roar went up from
the regulars ; and, although they argued
loud and long, they had to admit finally
that there was nothing in the rules to
cover it. Thus Bubba set what is prob-
ably a world record still —18 holes with
a score of 36.
• * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: That alleged Scottish
idea of “girdling” trees before “sawing
them down for seasoning purposes” (B.
24/9/’47) sounds odd to Australian prac-
titioners. First, the matter of felling,
which is much harder with a dry tree
than one running with sap. The
same applies to “breaking down.” With
a dry log the twin saws would require
sharpening in half the normal time,
teeth wearing out in due ratio, not
to mention extra wages to the saw-doclor.
Then the timber itself. Wood brought to
lumber while full of sap has many
times the life of dead, sapless wood. The
evaporating sap in sawn lumber leaves
behind deposits of sugars and acids that
add much to the durability of the timber.
With a “rung” tree the sap slowly re-
treats to the roots and is lost. Just how
sap may leave deposits behind was illus-
trated in our mill soon after the close of
the 1914-18 war. Shortage of softwoods
brought importations from Borneo. Most
of this was highly workable, but one par-
ticular wood was so filled with sugary
sap deposits that the cutting edge on saw-
teeth and planing-machine blades was re-
duced to one-quarter normal use,
blunted by microscopic grit.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Nothing strange about
that tame possum (B. 8/10/’47) that bit
its owner when he tried to release it
from a trap. Any tame animal caught
in a trap becomes panic-stricken and will
bite and claw at the hand that releases
it. The only one I knew that didn’t was
a blue-cattle dog—he’d been caught in
traps so many times that eventually, when
so caught, he simply lay down and
waited for someone to come and find
him.
* * * *
“Macnell”: I’ve met some queer fish
in the seven seas, but for savage, insensate
fierceness the killer whale makes a tiger-
shark lamblike by comparison. Just out
from Espiritu Santo, on the bridge at
the time, we saw the polished sea to
starb’d erupt into a bursting mound of
white. It hung a moment, poised between
blue and blue, then thinned to outline a
huge black shape which in a moment
thrashed back into the sea. Again and
again the whale rose, his tail whirling
like a ship’s screw. Closer now, and we
could see several torpedo-shaped creatures
hanging to his head. The long, lateen-
like dorsal fin—distinguishing mark of
the killer —was plainly visible. The big
whale heaved and shook, but they clung
to him with the ferocity of bulldogs,
seizing his huge lid-like lips and biting
viciously at throat and tongue—the only
part the destroyers eat. Soon the crea-
ture’s blood turned the blue into frothy
red, and, crazed by the taste, the killers
savaged great chunks of meat from his
body, rending it with a savagery impos-
sible to describe. The Old Man was all
our way when he ordered the port Bofors
closed up. We were so close the waves
of the giant’s struggles lapped our ship’s
side. The first burst gouged deeply into
the nearest killer’s belly, and the second
explosive chain finished him. Regardless
of our closeness, the rest of the pack
dragged their exhausted victim bodily
under the sea. Before our target sank
we had a chance to look him over. Half-
white, half-black and about 30ft. long,
his body was beautifully stream-
lined, his back the color of polished jet.
His mouth was like an open portcullis,
the teeth vicious ivory tusks, from which
still hung shreds of meat, the fin sticking
up like a sail. This fearsome array, plus a
destructive urge, makes the killer whale
really wholly dominant in his ocean-wide
sphere of action.
# * * *
“Esk D.”; It is the day of the fete
and baby show at Gongalong, and about
30 of the district’s youngest hopes are
yarded in the hall among the super-
abundance of wilting flowers, oversized
pumpkins, jars of jams and pickles and
tables of home-made cakes and scones.
Such a confusing array of the superior
and assorted local produce has never
before been on view. Among it bustle
and chatter uncounted females, the par-
son and a couple of bewildered-looking
husbands. Anxiety shakes the corrugated-
iron building as the brace of visiting
judges try to get the melodious young-
sters and their flustered mothers in some
semblance of order, and serious cogita-
tion takes place between them. At last
little Tommy, Harker’s* Nellie and the
rest are adjudged in their classes and the
winners announced from the stage. The
words are received with an angry mutter,
a jealous scream, and next thing a free-
for-all squabble is in full swing, the
judges barely escaping from the shambles.
Faces are slapped, insults hurled and
enough offence given to keep new
enmities simmering for a couple of
years. Little Mrs. Casey hurries off
with her prize-winning progeny and a
rising shanty over one eye. Escaping
the clamor, the secretary busily scratches
a report to the local rag of the “most
successful fete ever held in Gongalong,
over £l5 being raised for church funds.”
* ♦ * *
“Old-timer”: The tank was well
off any main road and, since we were
all bucks, nobody even thought about
bathing costumes. Eight of us were
in the yellow water of the tank, much
to the disgust of the solitary shag which
sat on a distant dead stick and eyed us,
while Red Mayne and Casey sat on the
bank —Red because he was afraid of sun-
burn, Casey because of an injured foot.
The first dip over, all the swimmers ex-
cept Fred sprawled nude on the bank
beside Casey and Red. Fred, up to his
waist, was standing in the water facing us
when his features changed swiftly from
consternation to alarm, somebody looked
back, let out a startled yelp and plunged
into the water. The whole gang went in
after him, and when we poked our'heads
out there were Casey’s mother and his
two adult sisters staring back at us, the
mother with disapproval, the girls with a
mixture of embarrassment and amuse-
ment. “Gripes! ” howled fully-clothed
Casey disgustedly from the water.
“Thought it must ha’ bin a flamin’ great
snake or somethin’.”
* * * #
“Blime”; Barney and Bill hadn’t been
working at the station long when Charlie
broke in on Barney’s recital of his
achievements. “Don’t want to put you
off or anything, mate,” he drawled, “but
we always make it a rule here to fine
anyone a deener who starts bragging.
Thought I’d better warn you, that’s all.”
Twenty-four hours later Barney had lost
nine bob and much of his enthusiasm
“Anybody else Want toasted sandwiches ?”
for talking. Mournfully he sought Bill,
and found his mate four drinks out of
pocket. Several days passed, then some-
one mentioned duck-shooting. “Yair,
there’s a bit o’ game around,” announced
Charlie, “but it’s pretty wild. Any good
with a gun, Barney?” he inquired. “Who
—me?” crowed the new hand. “Gripes
. . . er, I mean, no, not much.” “Ain’t
he just?” Bill chipped in readily. “Why,
I never see a bloke who could shoot like
Barney,” Charlie showed interest. “That
so, eh? An’ what about y’self? Done
much of it?” “Aw, I dunno ’s y’d call
it that ” Bill depreciated, looking across
at his mate meaningly. “Remember them
snipe, Barney?” Barney nodded, and the
conversation lapsed till later when Bill
caught his cobber outside, “Nice sort o’
flamin’ mate you are,” he accused resent-
fully. “Bloke saves y’ a deener, an’ y’
turn around an’ won’t even tell ’em
about them snipe I shot. See what I
mean?”
* * * *
“Betcha”: The animal world doesn’t
share mankind’s almost unanimous
revulsion to the snake. Have never
known a jumbuck show much interest
in Joe. Cows, too, are mostly uncon-
cerned. Have seen inquisitive dogs that
only luck Saved from a bite, though
most of them will attack the slitherer
on sight. Some cats will attempt to
play with the moving length, but mostly
they become spitting furies at the smell
of one. Had a horse that exhibited
alarm at every black stick in the grass,
and if forced to advance it became a
pitiful hulk of trembling cautiousness.
Riding a narrow cutting round a hill-
side, the high-stepping antics of another
hack interested me, and I discovered
the cause was a large black, travelling
with us in the same direction. Seemingly,
the mare’s one concern was a considerate
desire not to step on the red-bellied one.
* * * *
“Kamil”: On one of those sultry nights
that only North Queensland can turn
on a woman drowsily noted an
area of beautiful coolness under her
shoulders. Then the “ice-pack” moved
and she woke up in a hurry. Taking tea-
spoon-sized breaths, the lady pictured the
head poised to strike ; after an eternity
there was a slow slithering as coil after
coil uncurled, and presently a thud as
the reptile hit the bedroom floor.
Wrapping a corner of a ' blanket,
around her hand she reached for matches
and saw the tail disappearing through the
door. Then she gave a yell which had
the household out of bed and running
in mid-air. The systematic upheaval of
furniture which followed lasted most of
that night, but Joe made no appearance
until three days later, this time the
screeches coming from a featherlcss,
ancient parrot parked on the veran-
dah, and who took exception to 6ft. of
black snake attempting to get in through
his cage. After the boiling-water treat-
ment, everyone was happy,
* * * *
“Dusty Gully”: There were a few in
our bush pub, which has the unwritten
law of non-interference with orderly
after-hours patronage, and at 9 p.m.
Andy started voicing his intentions of
going home. At 12.30 a.m. Smithy
turned on him. “What, you back agen?”
he growled. “That’s the seventeenth time
I’ve heard y’ say y’ was goin’ home.
Don’t y’ reckon y’ll have y’r flamin’
truck wore out dashin’ orf like this ev’ry
ten minutes?”
* * * *
“^Solitude”: Knowing there was a mob
to go on to the tops the following week,
I broached the subject of accommodation
to Wallie when I struck him in town.
Later, I put Seventyfiver wise to the
arrangement. “You’ll be able to turn the
mob into the Dead-bird Gully,” I told
him, “and slip over to Wallie’s place for
the night.” “I won’t,” he declared
definitely. “Don’t care where the baldies
go, but I’m not goin’ there to do a freeze
all night. I’ll light meself a fire outside.”
“Don’t be a jackass,” I expostulated.
“There’s probably snow still in the gullies,
and Wallie’s got a huge fireplace. He
drags big logs in, and” “That’s all
right, I bin there,” Seventyfiver declared,
with a no-surrender look on his stubborn
mug. “An’ I tell y’ the silly cow dunno
how t’ build a fire. Makes it so flamin’
hot a man can’t even sit by it! ”
BLUE MOUNTAIN WALK.
Blue deeps and distances of the long valley
Barred with swift shade and sun;
And wildly through the roaring sea of tree-tops
The sweeping wind-waves run,
Driving the waters of the great falls upward
In glittering clouds of spray,
Till the dazed mind hears through the buffeting
and crying
The stone-lipped mountains say:
“Are you not tired of your little life’s vain
fever,
You, human, who now crawl
With feeble hands of death-sown flesh still
clutching
Our huge and age-scarred wall?
On the edge of the fearful drop—but one false
step—
How easy here to let go!
And we shall be rid of you, and you will lie
quiet
Two thousand feet below.
“Out of the wind and the weather, the sharp,
clear light,
Safe in an endless sleep—
Soft, soft down there, the brown-furred trunks
of the tree-ferns
And moss piled green and deep—
Dark and silent, out of the hopeless battle—
How easy to slip through the door,
With half-shut eyes, here where the wet rocks
dazzle —
One little step, no more.”
Yet I keep my feet on the track, for you may
be old,
My friends, but you are not wise.
You do not know that out of all things created
Only weak human eyes
See the wonder of your dark and sapphire
glories;
For all your million years
You have not learnt that your chill, sweet
waters make music
Only to human ears ;
And. though the white mists soothe your strange,
worn faces,
Stars burn above you,
Only this crawling thing you would destroy
Will dare to love you.
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.


Safe in his hands...
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. The;
know the technique of thj A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged. that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con>
fidently at A.M.L & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
ustralian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree, Henty and Hay.
KILL INSTANTLY
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL and A CERTAIN
KILLER
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE: MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
V-
m
if iv
m
n
A
MM
0 '1
•mnmfwei
iOObd
- V
m
SJJHWSAI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
m
- :■» **
MZ
2*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE
NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dipping Points.
“J.R.D.”: If a property is absolutely
free from external parasites, like keds,
lice, foot-lice or itch mite, dipping is a
waste of time and money. Many sheep-
owners don’t take the trouble to find out
which is the most suitable dip for their
particular parasite. Arsenical dips, for
instance, are the cheapest, but are of
various' grades and are suitable for use
against sheep lice. It has been proved,
however, that better results can be ob-
tained against lice by using an arsenical
dip containing derris or rotenone. Chief
drawbacks of powder dips are the time
and labor necessary to thoroughly super-
vise their mixing. Liquid dips are more
popular because of ease in mixing, but
they are more expensive.
Generally it is best to dip sheep about
a month off shears, when they have
grown a little wool and when all shear-
ing cuts will have healed. Arsenical dips
are very suitable then, but not for dip-
ping straight off the board, when arsen’c
will poison through absorption and re-
tards healing of cuts'. A phenylic dip
should be used under these circum-
stances.
Itch mite, only recently discovered, is
more widespread than is generally
realised. Symptoms are signs of rubbing
visible in the ragged pointed tip and
stringy wool and in advanced cases in
the cotted condition of the fleece. The
mite can only be detected by scraping
material from the sheep’s skin for micro-
scopic examination. Dipping in lime sul-
phur is the recommendation, but this dip
has no effect on keds or lice. An
arsenical dip will keep itch mite in check
but will not eradicate it.
Chief source of dipping failure is that
the animals are not thoroughly wetted ;
many swim dips' are too short and the
sheep comes out insufficiently wet, par-
ticularly if the head has not been ducked
under on the way through. These dips
are being replaced by power spray dips
of various types. The sheep are driven
into the dipping pen and the spray is
turned on. In some top and bottom
sprays! are used alternately, while in
others both come on together. There is
a much greater possibility of sheep not
being thoroughly wet in these spray dips
than in a swim dip, and sheep should be
examined thoroughly on the back of the
neck and underneath the neck after
dipping. Unless the wool shows satur-
ation right down to the skin the job is
incomplete. Such a failure can be
remedied by keeping the sprays turned
on longer. It is important that the time
of dipping be regulated by a
or hour-glass'. Near enough is no good.
It will do sheep no harm to be kept in
longer, but the minimum time must
never be cut down.
Length of dipping time will be
governed by length of wool and breed.
The denser the wool the longer the time
and the greater the pressure. A mini-
mum of three minutes for dips where
both overhead and underneath sprays
operate together should be stipulated.
Beware of overcrowding. If sheep bank
up on top of one another some will evade
the spray. They should have sufficient
room to mill about. It is a good idea to
make a check-pen of a size just sufficient
to hold one dip-pen of sheep.
The new insecticide, gammexane,
promises' to revolutionise dipping. It will
kill ticks, lice, foot-lice and their eggs
and larvae more thoroughly and quickly
than any present dip, and its effects will
remain in the fleece far longer. Sheep
dipped in this fluid will also act as walk-
ing fly traps, as any fly alighting on the
treated wool for some time after dipping
“Neatest bit o' ringbarkin' I've ever seen."
will be killed. Because of its' non-
poisonous nature sheep may be dipped
straight off the board. This may prove
to be the best time of all to dip, as it will
catch all ticks on the newly-shorn ani-
mal before they have time to drop off,
and it will prove much more economical
in that the sheep at this stage will take
less fluid out of the dip.
Dingo Fences.
“Atlanta”: W. H. Purcell, manager of
Tonkoro . station, Lpngreach (C.Q.),
countered the attempts of dingoes to
break through dog-netting by erecting an
electric fence outside and independent of
the netting-fence. Angle-iron posts
averaging 2ft. in length had a fin. hole
punched Hin. from the top to take the
bolt for the insulator, the other end
being sharpened for driving. Posts
were placed about Ift. out from the exist-
ing fence and far enough apart to give
the wire an average ground clearance
of Ift. On a 25-mile unbroken stretch,
over all kinds of country, the posts
averaged 30 to the mile. The
high-tensile galvanised wire was strained
about every 500 yards, depending on the
type of country.
In a 25-mile stretch two chargers with
batteries are used, but indications are
that each charger would charge up to
20 miles of fence, using the netting as
an earth by soldering the earth wire
from the unit to the netting. Batteries
for fence chargers will last eight to 10
weeks without recharging, but ordinary
car batteries require frequent recharging.
Before the electric fence, dingoes had
been constantly coming through the
netting on Tonkoro, but not one has
come through since, and there is almost
an entire absence of tracks close to the
fence. On damp ground it is necessary
for the animal to touch only the electric
wire to, receive a shock, but when the
ground is dry the dingo must touch both
electric wire and the netting. Sur-
prisingly little interference has been ex-
perienced from brumbies, scrub cattle,
donkeys, camels, kangaroos and walla-
roos, all of which are plentiful in un-
fenced country beyond the boundary.
Fumigation of Wheat.
“Bogan Joe”; Following experiments
in the protection of silo wheat from
weevils the C.S.I.R. has sought means of
protecting bagged wheat. Stacks treated
are usually 100 ft. long by 70ft. wide and
20 tiers high with a permanent roof,
making the provision of an air-tight
covering virtually impossible. The experi-
ments showed that if the stack was built
on an air-tight base and air-tight curtains
were put up fumigation could be effec-
tive by the application of certain heavier-
than-air fumigants.
Carbon bisulphide at the rate of 11b. or
methyl bromide at the rate of 21b. per
1000 cubic feet gave a good kill of
weevils and mice. The fumigant was
not so effective on the top layers, but in-
festation was largely restricted to the
lower part of the stack. Carbon bisul-
phide has been employed extensively in
S.A. since 1944 and some 4,000,000
bushels have been treated with entirely
satisfactory results.
Spring Potatoes.
“Bogaduck”: When your spring crop
of spuds shows through the ground and
your district is liable to late frosts start
earthing up at once to leave only two or
three of the top leaves showing above
ground. If a frost cuts them, go along
at once with a sharp hoe, cutting off the
blackened tops. Within two or three
days fresh leaves will be showing and
the spuds get no setback.
If a frost looms, go along with the
hoe before dark and cover the tops com-
pletely with earth ; next morning it is
necessary to do no more than bare the
tips of the leaves again. They’ll soon
push themselves free.
To stop a crop of carrots from running
to seed, cut off with a sharp knife below
the dark base of the leaf sprouts and cover
with earth; months later they will still
be fresh and usable. Rabbits taught me
that trick by eating every part of a carrot
crop which showed above ground ; two
months later I dug up that patch, think-
ing I would find the carrots were rotten,
and discovered that 99 p.c. of them were
still good.
Bearing Failures.
“Endeeay”: A few thousandths of an
inch clearance is left between the bear-
ing and the shaft, depending on size
and design of the engine. If it is too
small there is no room for the oil, or for
metal expansion on heating ; if too large
the oil is not retained. The bearing should
fit in all positions and the diameter
should be the same in all directions. The
shaft must also be round, otherwise a
good fit cannot be obtained. Unfor-
tunately a shaft wears more in one direc-
tion than another, particularly the big-
ends and so it becomes oval or tapered.
If a bearing fails soon after replacement
the shaft should be checked with a micro-
meter, and if worn oval or tapered will
probably require regrinding before a
bearing can be fitted satisfactorily.
Faulty or incorrect bearings are rare,
but it is an expert’s job to remetal a
bearing. When new metal is applied
directly to the shell great care must be
taken to see that it bonds perfectly,
otherwise it' will crack and flake off.
Inferior or incorrect metal can came
failure, and a bearing should always be
replaced with one of similar metal. Some
will carry heavier loads than others of
the same size. The copper-lead bearing
has excellent load-carrying ability and is
frequently used in diesel engines;
ordinary white metal should never be
used to replace copper-lead as it has a
lower load capacity and would require
a larger area. Conversely copper-lead
should never replace white metal as it
requires a harder shaft than the latter.
Bearings do not fail prematurely ; there
is always a cause and it should be ascer-
tained before replacing. However, it is


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEEP CO.. Box 4109. G.P.0., Sydney.
Positions Wanted.
Three Englishmen, all under 30, willing to
take any respectable job. farming preferred.
All have some farm experience. Require *heir
passages paid (to be refunded from their wages),
also letters of introduction to Australian immi-
gration authorities. Address, Andrew Gibson,
26 Charlton-road, Shepperton, Middlesex, Eng-
land.
j V'
wc
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes in a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
5
PROTECT
ycwA/ lueaM J
Protect your children from typhoid,
dysentery, hookworm and other in-
testinal diseases by installing a Hygeia
Dissolvenator, the completely self-
contained sanitary system with attrac-
tive and sturdily built pedestal.
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil. NO WATER
SUPPLY IS REQUIRED. Unwhole-
some odours . . . emptying . . .
disease germs . . . flies are all
eliminated. In use in hospitals,
offices and homes throughout Aus-
tralia.
FULLY GUARANTEED
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 20 years.
BKTErBTTTORS ;
NJi.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W., 82 Loulbum St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
Woolworth’s Buildings, Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co.
Ltd., 678 Little Flinders St., Melb.
South Aust.: 'Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.
(S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide.
Western Australia; R. P. Mclnerney &
Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania; Wlm. Crosby & Co. Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
A
/
mmmm
You can tell it’s
A "MAXIMUM" PROPERTY!
• WELL WATERED • BETTER CROPS
• MORE PROFITABLE
Parched land gives poor profits. You can grow splendid crops
and get good returns for far less effort with "Maximum," the
modern spray irrigation system.
You'll have water where and when you want it!
No other system can be erected and moved
with such ease and speed. "Maximum" has the
famous flexible coupling. You change pipe
positions quickly without stopping pump or
motor. Gives good coverage and cost per acre is low.
Agents: Smith & Gluyas Pty., Ltd., 154-156 Clarence Street Sydney. M 2977.
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.. 102-124 Melbourne St._, South Brisbane. J 11456.
Pascoe 4 Co." Ltd, 282 Port Road. Woodville, South Australia.
Welling 4 Crossley Pty. Ltd., 143-149
Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. MX 4889.
M 7127.
MANUFACTURERS;
MAXIMUM SPRAY
IRRIGATION CO.
39-41 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY
MA 7858
ẅ
Mail this coupon to Maximum Spray
Irrigation Co., or to any ol the agents
listed. Learn more about "Maximum"
... how it can help you/
Name.
Ad d ress
B.6j
/■OUTSTANDING SUCCESS'S
AGAINST
sm
White scours controlled in a
few hours at a cost of only
a few shillings per head.
This new SULPHA DRUG which has
revolutionised the treatment of white
scours is not only quick and effective
but surprisingly economical—a jar of
75 grammes priced at 17/8 will treat,
on an average, five young calves.
OficA&lcti flrodujcif
Sulpha-/?
I TRADE MARK
Also for COCCIDIOSIS in
CALVES, enteritis, dysentery
of pigs, horses, dogs and
COCCIDIOSIS in POULTRY.
•SULPHA-G' is sold in jars containing 7S grammes
at 17/8 or 400 grammes at 82/6. Average amount
necessary for treatment of white scours is from 10
to ISgrammes. Further information on 'SUPHA-G'
itsfulluses and dosages are contained in'SULPHA-
G’ brochure obtainable through your retailer or
postfree from Nicholas Pty. Ltd. (Branch offices
in all States).
COPYRIGHT. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Obtain Sulpha-G from your
chemist or storekeeper situ-
ated not less than four miles
from the nearest chemist and
who is licensed to sell such
preparations. S7/47 A
w
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock . . .
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders . . .
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour is purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes: 4058 Melbourne —768 K —712 F 588 Perth.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders.
Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/f)
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/0
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
BARKO
MORE IN ONE
* SPECIAL GUN *
“AND RIFLE 011“
GUARANTEED TO REMOVE FOUL-
ING AND BUST, PREVENTS PITTING
This oil was used exclusively by the
American armed forces in the S.W.P.A.
ALL HARDWARE. AND SPORTS STORES.
Wholesale, S. Hoffnung, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents; W. S. FRIEND, Sydney.
necessary to differentiate between prema-
ture failure and normal life.
U.S. Stock Prices.
“Agric”; What it means to have a big
population at the farm’s front gate was
discovered by Cyril Butcher, of Winch-
combe Carson, Ltd., Brisbane, who has
been visiting the U.S.A. for some time.
He told “Queensland Country Life” that
steers on September 16 reached the
record high at Chicago of 35.75 dollars
per 1001 b. live weight; hogs touched 31
dollars per 1001 b. live weight; corn the
record of 2.68 dollars per bushel and
wheat 2.78 dollars.
Burcher visited the famous Wyoming
Hereford Ranch, where he saw the
champion bull. Helmsman 3rd, for which
100,000 dollars was refused. In the year
1946-47 Wyoming Ranch set an all-time-
high average record for a Hereford sale
—7O head for an average of 4542 dol-
lars, totalling 317,925 dollars. Thirty-
three bulls averaged 6235 dollars, one
(Royal Helmsman) bringing 35,000
dollars.
Divide the dollars by three for roughly
equivalent Australian values.
At Wyoming University he saw pas-
ture improvement being conducted with
a view to developing practices adaptable
to low-rainfall (13-inch) areas, and he
has been particularly interested in crop-
fattening on a large scale. One of. the
biggest feed-plots had about 8600 cattle
in yards being commercially fed.
The Shed Layout.
“Jock”: “Atlanta’s” idea for a dip
with the entry from the shed (B. 1/10/’47)
means unnecessary ingestion of dipping
fluid and the possibility of sheep drown-
ing—they move out of the shed too fast
for the man on the dip-stick to control
them. A circular crush gate with a
supporting wheel, a decoy pen, and a
side-entry chute are the best combination
for a dip entry.
The association of shed and dip is also
a bad idea —sheep should be handled as
little as possible in the shed and not at
all in the drafting race; it pays when
one day you have to shed up or draft
with only the dog as an assistant. If
sheep get used to going straight through
the drafting race they will run through
without checks. It is worth building
another race for drenching, etc.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: During the summer every
farmer should have on hand and ready
for use one 4gal. knapsack sprayer for
beating fire outbreaks. A 21b. jam-tin
in. the sprayer is better to fill the con-
tainer from a weak water supply than to
fall back on one’s felt hat or cupped
hands. Make use of natural breaks and
try to confine the blaze to them. Always
spray along the line of the outbreak.
In the final stages spray out burning trees
to obviate the need for felling them.
Other items needing attention are logs,
stumps and smouldering manure.
“Will C.”: Half the battle with lucerne
in N.Q. is proper cultivation before the
seed is sown. The life of the crop is
greatly reduced by faulty cultivation,
since the roots of lucerne must strike
deep to find enough moisture to main-
tain growth and vigor during dry spells.
It cannot be a real success on shallow
or eroded soils where the subsoil is hard
and impervious. Like most legumes,
lucerne is most at home on light-soiled
flats where "the ground soon dries up
after rain.
“Sarina”: Planted thickly, elephant
grass makes a better windbreak for small
crops in N.Q. than the tall sorghums
sometimes grown for that purpose. This
grass will grow 10ft. to 12ft. high before
tasselling, and the tall canes never really
dry up. It is not much good for stock-
feed when tall and coarse, but the young
shoots that constantly grow up from the
roots are hard to beat. Like bamboo,
elephant grass holds up wash dirt and
silt during flood-time along the verges
of creek banks, but it becomes a real
pest if allowed to spread across water-
courses when they are dry.
“Sarina”: Lantana is ,easier to kill if
you can get a fire into it during the dry
season. Trouble is that when the lantana
is withered everything else is dry, and
the fire may get out of control. If,
however, the clump is isolated from in-
flammable grass, cut a hole into the
windward side of it and smaller ones
elsewhere. The windward hole is very
important; jam in plenty of dry trash
and a few armfuls of brambles, set fire
to the heap and, when the fire nas taken
strong hold, light all around the clump.
“Sundowner”: Points to remember to
ensure that eggs reach the British market
in first-class condition are ample nests
with clean shellgrit (birds should not roost
in nests overnight), good sheds with clean
litter, provision to close sheds during wet
weather, collection of eggs as often as
possible and market at every opportunity.
Mark suitable eggs “unwashed” ; if any
heavily soiled eggs have to be washed
cases must be so marked.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to cure canker of the ear in a dog?
Canker of the ear in animals tends to develop
through related strains, the long-eared dog
being especially liable to attack. Soften the
ear contents and flap area with warm oil for
two or three nights, then clean out with wool
wound on a wooden probe. Meanwhile cleanse
the ear each day with a lotion of equal parts
methylated spirits and warm water and continue
as required for relief. The formula of stronger
lotion for occasional use is: Sulphate of zinc
1 drachm, boracic acid \ drachm, glycerine 4
drachms, distilled water to Boz. Dilute with
equal parts warm water.
* * * *
(1) How to remove warts on Hereford cattle?
(2) How to remove stable stain from the white
knees of Hereford cattle?
(1) Application of castor oil is often effective
in the removal of warts from cattle. An
alternative treatment is the application of glacial
acetic acid. This could be applied on the end
of a matchstick daity to the affected area.
(2) A commercial dry-cleaning preparation
stirred into hot soapy water in order to form
an emulsion would be effective.


Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & Cti, LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump ont
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel "up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin*
else. 3/- & 1/3.
END your RUPTURE
WDRRIES
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
io do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and Hi day*’ jree
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
I A
Most Favourable Time
to plan your future is
BETWEEN NOW AND
OCTOBER 29 ... m>
If you’ve been thinking about your future . . . planning a
home, education, travel, retirement' or security . . . there’s no better time
than now to take the first step —making sure you will have the necessary money!
Here*s what to do!
FIRST, check your bank balance, and with every penny not needed for
current expenses, make an advance subscriotion in cash to the Fourth
Security Loan.
NEXT, decide how much you can set aside each pay-day as savings for the
future.
THEN, when the Loan officially opens on October 29, you will know just how
many Bonds you can buy by instalments.
In this way you will start earning better than bank interest immediately on
each cash subscription, and you’ll be ready right on the dot on October 29
with your instalment application.
The sooner you buy Bonds, the sooner your savings start really working
for you ... so start your plans right now—all the signs are favourable!
-K
FACTS ABOUT THE FOURTH SECURITY LOAN
The Fourth Security Loan opens on October 29: Bonds will
be available in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and
. £l,OOO, paying interest at the rate of 3i% per annum for
12 years. You can make a fully-paid advance subscription
-K at once, and interest will be paid from the date your applica-
tion is received by a bank. Invest to-day through any Bank,
Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
*
*****************
SAVE FOR SECURITY
Make an advance subscription to the
FOURTH SECURITY LOAN
★ *
*
*
*
*
*
*
¥ ¥
INTERNATIONAL QUIZ: AUSTRALIA v. GREAT BRITAIN... AII Stations, Tubs , Oct. 28, at 8 p.m , South Aus., 7-30 p.m.
P45L10.113
THIS “
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a traction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupfr
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Butit entirely tn Australia by
calof will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
1,,, SYOHEY AND*BRISBANE , i i
Then this Thursday we’d had the
Applebys down to help us with the
Mount Govern block, 12,000 acres at
the back of the run, and came home late.
We were sitting on the verandah. Brag
and I, after the others had gone, and we
were just about to turn in when we saw
the queer figure coming down the road.
We couldn’t make out who or what he
was, and we were too tired to do any-
thing about it. I suppose we should have
got up to see if there was anything we
could do. But we left it until he got
within a couple of hundred yards of the
homestead gate. Then we saw it was a
man carrying a saddle, and we went
down.
It was Mike. He got to the gate before
we did, for we had a fair way to go down
the hill where the drive went along the
creek-bank, and he was standing leaning
against the gate when we got there. The
saddle was set carefully on the ground.
.It still carried all the mountings, and
the blanket roll and the slicker, but he
had dropped the half-cover off some-
where, and he had the plaited bridle
looped and slung over his shoulder. His
old faded denims were torn from the
right knee down, and his right coat-
sleeve had been cut off with a knife,
and the forearm had the skin ripped off it.
“Where’s the mare, Mike?” Brag asked
him; his voice was soft as though he
was talking to his Mollie,
MIKE turned his pale eyes on him
slowly. He didn’t have a weak
face, but it had been a soft face once, and
for all the tanning and the weathering
it had it wasn’t hard, even yet.
“The mare’s over the side in Cataract,”
he said. “She was on the edge of the
track and started a slide. And I nearly
went with her.”
“I’m sorry to hear it,” Brag said, and 1
think he was. “But Cataract? That’s
a long way away. Twenty-eight miles, or
thereabouts.”
“It’s been four days,” Mike said. “And
four weary days.”
The billy lay on the ground beside the
saddle, and I saw that the fire-blackening
on it was fresh.
“You better come up to the house,”
Brag said, and I picked up the saddle and
gear. It was heavy, but the old man had
a sling rigged for it from the stirrup-
leathers, and it was easy enough to heft.
Mike shuffled along with his head
down. “I’ll not be needing anything for
the mare,” he said. “But maybe you
could spare some meat, now, for the little
dog? He’s caught nothing these two days,
being so footsore, with not being used to
holding the road all day.”
“Come up and get your belly full, you
and the dog both,” said Brag. “Don’
be so mealy-mouthed about it. There’s
more bull with you than with two men
twice your size.”
Mike shuffled along behind him, with
his head down.
Mollie rooted out a shirt and a pair of
trousers for Mike, and after he’d had
some tea he sat on the verandah and
told us how the mare had gone over,
and how he’d fallen clear, and the mare
had gone over a rock and broken her
neck, and how lucky he’d been that she’d
never fallen once with her weight on
the saddle, so that it was still good, and
only gouged across the leather in the one
place.
“What’ll you do for a horse, Mike?”
asked Brag.
“Shannon I’ll use,” said Mike. “The
roany stallion —you’ll mind the pony
stallion? He’s out at grass, at Esmond.
But that’s four days away. Boss, you
wouldn’t have a horse you could lend
me?” he asked, leaning forward.
“I’ll let you have one Tuesday, Mike.
That’s four days.”
Mike sat back, disappointed.
“Give yourself a holiday, Mike. I
can’t let a nag go until I have the muster
over. You could stop here. Mollie will
feed you, and you can fill out a bit.”
“That’s good of you, boss, and I’ll thank
you.” Mike looked down at his feet.
“The little dog is fair tuckered out,” he
said.
“Where does he get all these horses?”
I asked Brag, after Mike had gone to
doss down in the stable.
“He’s some sort of a remittance man,
I guess,” Brag said. “He gets a cheque
about once a month. Mostly it goes in
rum, and then he’s a teetotaller till the
next time. But sometimes there’s a three-
four months’ cheque together, and a
likely horse, and then he gets the horse.
I’ve never heard of him selling one. He
just leaves them all about the country,
and run-holders give them their feed for
the use of them. He’s a queer boy is
Mike. He thinks a lot of a nag.”
When I got the horses in just after
midnight, Mike was snoring on a pile of
chaff-bags in the loft. But when we came
back from the muster he had left, saddle
and gear and all.
“I never saw him go,” said Mollie.
“He just ate his breakfast, and then he
wasn’t there.”
HE came in a week, riding the
roan pony stallion, and asked Brag
for a feed of chaff and oats.
“I wouldn’t trouble you at all, only
that he’s been on the hard feed for so
long and what grass there is on the Long
Acre is awful scarce, this time of year,”
he said.
“You know where the feed is. Help
yourself,” said Mike. “I suppose Mollie
will have something for you at the
house.”
The stallion nickered as he saw the
oats.


There should be a
VALET
in your Razor Kit!
Availableeverywhere
IT
These Valet features bring new
enjoyment to your daily shave...
• Self-stropping. A few quick,
strokes on the strop give you
“new blade” speed and com-
fort with every shave.
O Simple in construction. , Easy
to clean, nothing to unscrew,
nothing to take apart.
# Easy-opening clips. Blade
changing takes but a second.
SUPERB TONAL QUALITY
m
m
m
THE NEW
“HIS MASTERS VOICE”
MANTEL RADIO
In keeping with the “His Master’s Voice” tradition
of “true-to-life” reproduction, this new Mantel
Receiver is outstanding for the matchless quality
of its tonal performance. But tone is hot its only
feature—the short-wave reception is excellent,
greatly enlarging your choice of programme; and
the craftsman-built cabinet of carefully patterned
walnut and mahogany veneers will add grace and
beauty to your home.
Model 537 W 5 Valve A.C. Dual Wave Receiver, 28 gns.
Model 46W 4 Valve A.C. Broadcast Receiver, £22/15/-
Both these models available on hire purchase.
Your nearest accredited “ H.M.Vretailer will gladly
arrange a demonstration.
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD. (Inc, in England). HQMEBPSH. W.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
T V V V
Just as Gumph created a wheel out of a
log, so somebody, or rather a collection of
somebodies, created language out of barks,
growls, snarls, whines, yelps, moans and other
animal noises.”— -Prof. Murdoch.
Now the Parliamentary broadcasts
from Canberra are reversing the process.
4* A" 4* 4*
“Wanted exchange nice glory chest for ward-
robe.” —“Great Northern” {Sydney).
When hope goes, she might as well
hang up.
. 4* 4* 4* 4*
Beauty is women’s business.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
But one that requires much building up.
4* 4* *|* 4*
“This descending hemline is more than a
fashion whim.” — Woman’s magazine.
In fact it’s one of the laws of society.
» • • 4
There’s no law against women buying corsets
and brassieres.”— “Woman.”
Many would have a struggle to keep
within it, if there were.
+ + 4*
“Mr. Chifley hasn’t yet nationalised hats.”
— Woman’s paper.
But he’s going ahead with something
just as ridiculous.
ŵ
“ Aw, let ’em go — they'll have to come back for us."
Great Decision.
The Editor-in-Chief of the Great Sun-
day Paper rubbed his hands in joy as the
veritable avalanche of news riches poured
in. .But there was one fly floating in the
beer of his ecstasy —he couldn’t get them
all on the front page.
There was, for instance, the dramatic
incident at Randwick, when the Mys-
terious Lady Punter, after having lost
£2OOO in a sensational plunge on an odds-
on favorite, spectacularly attempted to
commit suicide by throwing herself under
the wheels of a stroller in the Paddock.
Had that been the only notable incident
of the day it would have been good for
front-page banner headlines, a three-
column photo, of the bookie she made
the bet with and enough color in the
write-up to have dyed Wirth’s big-top
a bright puce.
But there was also another vital item
of news. A crazed commercial traveller
had chased his blonde barmaid friend
along a King’s Cross street clad only in
his pyjama coat and wielding a cleaver.
A livewire staff photographer had
borrowed a cleaver from a butcher and
driven it into a telegraph pole and his
sensational photo, of the fleeing Hebe s
lucky escape from a fearful death (X
marked the spot where she was probably
running at the time) was guaranteed to
have the readers goggle-eyed.
Then there was the story of the ’teen-
age bobbysoxer who was in the second
day of her hunger strike because the
theatre where the latest Dick Haymes
film was showing wouldn’t allow her to
sleep in her seat overnight so she could
be there waiting for the first run of the
picture next day. In a sensational inter-
view with the G.S.P. she said she had re-
signed herself to death. Nothing had
passed her lips since her hunger strike
had begun except vitamin pills, ice-cream
sodas and chocolates. Her dramatic
message to the nation was that she' hoped
her death might be the means of bring-
ing home vividly to the parents of other
Dick Haymes fans the soul-needs of
girls. A photo, of the hunger-striker
clad in a very revealing striped sweater
was all ready to be dropped in.
What, too, of the sunbaking Beach
Girl who had defied the beach inspector
when he had ordered her to pull up the
straps of her bra? Splash headlines and
a two-column photo, of the heroine
specially posed with the offending straps
down and a stickful of juicy descriptive
stuff would be good enough to push a
political crisis off the front page any day.
On top of all these there was the
sensational funeral of Bugsy Brogan,
whose bullet-riddled body had been
dumped in a lane. There had been an
estimated £7OO-worth of wreaths preced-
ing the mile-long cortege, and 5000 people
had viewed the lying-in-state. As well
there was a really beautiful photo, of two
expensively-dressed women tearing each
other’s hair across the coffin, and another
of the crowd stampeding over surround-
ing graves as they rushed to get best
positions for the interment, during which
“scarcely one of the great, deeply-moved
concourse remained dry-eyed.”
At Wynyard, too, the usual Saturday-
afternoon brawl had been “highlighted”
by an “ugly scene” when a crowd of 300
menaced a young constable as he tried
to arrest two men he had caught forcing
open a shop-door.
If ever a story called for a front-page
splash it was the one of the 18-year-old
model who had married a wealthy 78-
year-old stockbroker after a whirlwind
courtship. In an exclusive interview the
“radiant bride” had demurely confessed
that it was a case of love at first sight.
Some overseas items simply shrieked
to be put on the chief news-page, too.
There was June Heaver, the film star,
who had resumed her honeymoon after
interrupting it so that she could institute
divorce proceedings. The story of the
Wisconsin man who got his mother-in-law
to strangle his wife so that they would be
free to go away together. And that of
the Tuscaloosa soda jerk who had thrown
himself out of a 42nd-story window of
the Empire State Building, landed on a
passing truck loaded with kapok mat-
tresses, bounced 30 feet, landed back on
the truck unhurt, and in a subsequent
interview with reporters fractured his jaw
when he was laughing about the incident.
As the E.-in-C., with deadline looming,
gazed at the array of galley proofs be-
fore him, he pondered deeply on his
problem.
His every instinct impelled him to give
pride of place to the Mysterious Lady
Punter sensation. Yet how could he pos-
sibly miss the opportunity of the equally-
sensational defiance of the Beach Girl
plus the even more sensational photo, of
the strapless bra? And what of the
dramatic description of Bugsy’s funeral,
or the poignant story of the hunger-
striking bobbysoxer? It was his paper’s
avowed policy to try to get the mental
age of its readers down from 11 to 10.
• Any of these stories would surely further
that laudable ambition.
As he sat trying to make up his mind
the Cable Editor dashed in. “Two
very important items,” he said. “A
wonderful new British drug has been dis-
covered which promises completely to
conquer several ‘killer’ diseases. And
there are full details of a trade agree-
ment between the U.S. and Britain which
Truman describes as ‘epoch-making. 1
Either should make good front-headline
stuff.”
The great man frowned at his sub-
ordinate. “Have you gone nuts?” he
barked, “We’ll give ’em an inch each
among the fill-ups on the back-page.
There’s a story of national importance
I’m running under double-banner head-
lines, four columns —and, boy, won’t
that photo, of the cleaver stuck in the
pole sell it right out!”
BO.
Friend in Need.
“A waist-whittler known as the Cinch Girdle
has arrived in Sydney.”
A girl of more than ample charm
Is likely to create a rumpus
When she discovers with alarm
Her waist is greater than the arm
Of her “intended” can encompass.
Yet, by attacking inch by inch
Her irreducible perimeter.
The girth they term out West a “cinch,”
Assisted by a two-ton winch.
May to a handy armful limit her.
In short, when studying to speed
The weary business of belittling
The female form, you might concede
There is indeed a greater need
For drastic pruning, say, than whittling.
P. M. LUSK.
Complete Meal.
“A woman ran into the chemist’s shop and
mumbled that she had swallowed her upper set
of dentures.” —Maitland ( N.S.W .) “Mercury.’’
I’ve cursed my luck that I’m dyspeptic,
Tied to a diet and a sceptic
Concerning gastronomic joys
That bring untold delight to boys;
And, filled with secret jealousy,
I’ve watched my cobbers making free
With foods, while I in trepidation
Just “pick” for fear of ulceration.
Yet, henceforth I’ll support my pain
And I shall never more complain
Of having to forgo a treat
When it is clear that those who eat
Too freely may have worse befall
Them bolting dinners, plate and all.
D. H. E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tlie contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“Capitalism”
With an all-out socialist offensive now
under way surely it is time “capi-
talism” made some effort to gain public
support and goodwill for the system that
has built up the world as we know it.
Not the least harmful propaganda against
private ownership derives from the
method of publishing company reports
most public companies are too anxious to
impress shareholders and too little con-
cerned with publicising other aspects of
their operations.
One hears too often that Blank and
Co. have had another record turnover
or that Hamburgers, Ltd., have declared
their greatest dividend. That sort of
thing stirs' up resentment among the non-
share-owning public. Companies would
be far wiser if, in publishing their bal-
ance sheets, they set against their gross
earnings, first and conspicuously, their
wages bill, then other costs, then taxa-
tion and, finally, the amount distributed
as dividends. If some estimate could be
made and published of the proportion of
dividends which finds its way back to the
Taxation Department, so much the better.
Publication of a dividend rate based on
the current market rating of the shares
rather than on their face value would
also help to correct many misconceptions
about the income of the shareholding
public.
C.S.R. has given another good lead
with its published diagrammatic explana-
tion of the sugar shortage, for which
many people have blamed the refineries.
The tobacco companies could and should
have made out a convincing case for
the recent id. rise in the price of
cigarettes, but the general public still
feels that, as' the companies had a profit
of some £900,000, they could have
carried the extra id. per packet of 10
cigarettes. Few people who are not
directly interested will read a news para-
graph explaining the actions of a public
company, but they will look at and
understand a cartoon or diagrammatic
explanation.
Another necessity is a far wider spread
of share-ownership. The more .people
who own shares) the fewer there will be
who desire general or piecemeal national-
isation of industry. The provision of
more ss. shares and the sale of smaller
parcels than 50 or 100 would undoubtedly
add to administrative costs, but that
would be offset by the advantage of a
more general interest in share-owning. In
this matter Cox Bros.’ recent announce-
ment of a ss. share issue for employees
was a long step in the right direction.
Finally, there should be a definite
campaign by commercial interests to edu-
cate the public in Stock Exchange and
share dealings. Public ignorance in this
matter is) appalling and dangerous. Few
people outside present share-owners
understand the elementary mechanics of
buying and selling shares and do not
even think of buying shares for them-
selves, believing it to be beyond the
means of the ordinary man. Actually,
share-owning and -buying is one of the
simplest means of saving.
Those interested in maintaining the
capitalist system must seek public good-
will and must advertise the capitalist
point of view, otherwise the struggle
against socialism is already lost. The
capitalist system is solidly entrenched in
America because of the widespread
ownership of shares and because big con-
cerns undertake definite goodwill cam-
paigns'. —F. C. S. (Vic.).
“The Blunt Truth”
Addressing a Labor Day Mass at St.
Mary’s, Sydney, a priest is reported to
have said: “The blunt truth is that most
modern problems exist because there is
no longer a sense of justice in men’s
hearts, and dignity in a man’s work is
no longer recognised in industry.” Re-
ferring to accusations against employers
for their greed and irritation tactics, he
went on: “But we all too frequently find
that these charges come from men who
waste the firm’s time and material and
who do inferior work.”
The statements are only too true, but
there is more to be said. The average
worker is being taught daily to be &
pointer and opportunist. He is con-
demned by his workmates if he tries to
give his boss “a fair go.” His output is
poor and steadily decreasing. His wages
are determined not by skill, but by the
cunning shrewdness of union organisers,
by political blackmail, by victimisation
and intimidation, and by brute-force
methods of holding the public to ransom.
Because of all this there is little incen-
tive to learn a trade or study for a pro-
fession.
In the character of the common people
alone is a nation’s greatness founded, and
the Australian character is being steadily
debased.
There are many highly skilled execu-
tives in local government, the public ser-
vice, tramways and railways and the
building field. They are men who could
be efficient and who could vastly improve
their departments, but they dare not be-
cause they can be told to go to hell by
the lowest-paid man on the job, who has
only to ’phone his union for support. If
the man is absolutely in the wrong the
union is satisfied to obtain an apology
from the executive, but, whatever hap-
pens, the boss knows beforehand that
he is in for a bout of lies, calumny and
misrepresentation.
I am a worker who is sick of the
whole set-up. Just for having thought
this, I can be classified as an enemy of
the worker, a scab, a sycophant and a
paid tool of the capitalistic bosses. Men
adept with words and phrases can prove
I am wrong in all my surmises and
accusations. Yet the truth remains and,
despite the strenuous work of principled
men and women, greed, envy and en-
forced class hatred are gradually weaken-
“That's not a party hat — it's to keep the soup off your knees."
ing the nation in eventual readiness for
the Communist saturnalia.
And I am as bad as anyone for,
though I have let myself go tonight, I
shall have to dissemble all day tomorrow.
There’s no option, for I can’t afford to
lose my job. The Piebald Piper
(N.S.W.).
Synthetic Clothing
In 1938-39 newspapers reported that
clothing of the future would be made
from steel, feathers, aluminium, peanuts,
seaweed, coal, wood, milk, etc. They
outlined the dire threat to the Australian
wool industry and stated that the day
was fast approaching when a suit or
dress of pure wool, cotton or silk would
be a novelty.
Comes 1947. Good wool suitings are
practically unprocurable, and I haven’t
found any shops selling seaweed, coal,
wood or milk substitutes for them.
We were once told that the average
sheep yielded about 81b. of wool a year
in return for two acres of grazing land
and that soy beans planted in the same
acreage could be converted into 1601 b.
of wool. I’m still willing to try a soy-
bean suit if anyone can find one for me.
Wool made from skim-milk was
allegedly being produced in the U.S. at
an annual rate of 1,000,0001 b., yet
America is! still taking huge quantities of
wool from us, and we cannot supply the
world demand. America was
posed to have ample supplies of “test-
tube” cotton superior to the ordinary
variety, yet there is now an acute world
shortage of cotton and our Rationing
Commission is about to increase the cou-
pon rating of textiles' made from it.
Where are these fabulous quantities of
synthetic materials now that they are so
sorely needed? —C. S. (N.S.W.).
The Talkers
“Syllables govern the world.” At
present they govern Australia, and it is
interesting to check up on where the
supply comes from.
Our population is composed mainly of
Scottish, English and Irish, imported or
extracted. The Scots are as sparing of
their syllables as they are of their sax-
pences, and utter as few as possible after
weighing every word. The English are
not so reserved, but are inclined to under-
statement and compromise. The Irish
are talkative and have a genius for self-
expression. Poetic imagery and hyper-
bole come trippingly to the tongue, ready
for every occasion, grave or gay.
The result is that in any community
composed of the three breeds the studious
Scots shine as engineers, the English
succeed as traders and managers,
the Irish excel as orators, journalists and
entertainers. A tabulated list of names
in the various professions and callings
would prove the point.
Who are the most prominent politi-
cians, poets, lawyers, publicans, actors
or scientists? In any friendly gathering,
who is the life of the party? In an elec-
tion campaign, who are the most arti-
culate?
Shaw laughed at the idea of teaching
elocution in Irish schools because every
urchin in the Green Isle knows every
trick of persuasion and inflection. For
good or evil we are ruled by earbashers,
and it is at least interesting to inquire
into the national or racial origin of the
eloquence that shapes our ends. —
B. Larney (S.A.).
Government Railways
I tried to book a seat on the train from
Sydney three days before I was due to
leave that city. “Sorry, no bookings
taken,” I was told. “But be there when
she comes in and you’ll be right.”
Having a journey of 300 miles ahead of
me, I was there when the train came in,
and made a dive for the nearest first-class
carriage. Settling down comfortably, I
was soon disturbed by an “All out of this
carriage!” On asking why, I was told
that all seats in the carriage were reserved.
Arguments were useless, so I tried to find
room elsewhere, but by then, of course,
every seat was taken.
“Coming to light” I managed to poke
myself into a second-class carriage. There
I had a corner seat with a window to
open for coolness —except that the
window would not stay open when the
train was moving.
At 11 a.m. a waitress came round tak-
ing orders for morning-tea. Most people
preferred it to fighting through the re-
freshment-room rush at the next station.
We received our “morning-tea” at
12.50 p.m.
If this is a sample of Mr. Ghifley’s
Government-controlled Golden Age, I
only hope that I may spend the rest of
my days under the heavy yoke of capi-
talism. — Mac (N.S.W.).
The Victorian railways will soon be
qualifying for a place beside those of
Queensland and Westralia, if the vagaries
of the Adelaide Express are any indica-
tion. This, and a train which lingers and
shunts at every station four times weekly,
are the mainstay of all the unfortunates
who live between Ballarat and the S.A.
border.
It is bad enough that the express should
pass through Horsham (centre of a
vast wheatgrowing area) at the ungodly
hours of 1 a.m. on the down journey and
4 a.m. on the up, but it is infinitely worse
when it is, as often, from one to two
hours late—and even its lateness cannot
be relied upon!
One “first and second” combination
carriage is graciously attached to cater
for all intra-State passengers, and it is
the last straw to find this carriage full,
with a 200-mile journey ahead of you.
And for these courtesies we must pay in-
creased fares.
Adding insult to injury is the recent
report that inter-State passengers are to
have luxury “roomettes,” and that the
Overland is to be “the most comfortable
train of its kind in Australia.” We intra-
state travellers would gladly settle for
just a seat. — Horshamite (Vic.).
The R.A.A.F.N.S.
It is rather late in the day to be
amazed that members of the W.A.A.A.F.
were entitled to an issue of two bottles
of beer a week (B. 1/10/’47), thereby ex-
posing these young women to the temp-
tation of excessive drinking. In point
of fact, women officers enjoyed equal
privileges with male officers in all
R.A.A.F. messes, “provided they con-
ducted themselves as officers and”—yes—
“gentlemen.”
One notable exception should be re-
corded—the R.A.A.F, Nursing Service.
To her credit, the Matron-in-Chief (Miss
Lang) insisted successfully on the estab-
lishment of separate messes for her nurses
and the exclusion of liquor therefrom.
Further, unlike the other women’s ser-
vices, the R.A.A.F.N.S. did not ape the
male by adopting high-sounding titles,
such as lieutenant-colonel, wing-officer,
etc., but contented itself with doing an
efficient job under the simple but highly
appropriate ranks of matron, senior-sister
and sister. — Celer (Vic.).
A Letter from Scotland
I received the following reply to an
order for some Scotch tweed;
In five years’ time the British and Empire
public will have forgotten Scotch tweed. The
utility demand of a starved market will have
gone, our export connections will be lost, and
the mills in the Border towns will be standing
idle. Serious as the coal shortage is in Border
towns, where some firms are down to pne or
two days’ reserve, the continued restriction on
exports is regarded as by far the heavier threat.
Before the war the Border tweed trade had
world-wide connections. A large percentage
of its high-grade suitings found a ready
market in U.S.A., Canada, Australia, N.Z.,
South America, Italy, France and other coun-
tries where the emphasis was on quality rather
than on price. Now that the Border firms are
being forced to concentrate almost exclusively
on utility cloths for the home market there is
a real fear that the traditional skill of the
district’s designers, weavers and finishers may
b'e lost for good.
Highly qualified , craftsmen are becoming
weary of the monotonous round of utility suit-
ings which can be equally well made anywhere
in the world. There is certainly nothing dis-
tinctively Scottish about them, and as older
workers are being pensioned off youngsters are
coming into the industry with little opportunity
of acquiring the traditional tricks of the trade.
A good deal of Scandinavian business has
already been turned down by Border firms, who
cannot accommodate these orders in their
export quotas. France and Czechoslovakia
have taken their slice of this market instead
and, once lost, it may never be recovered.
Buyers from Stockholm recently toured the
Border mills and offered to buy as much as
the manufacturers could sell. They were
astounded when their old suppliers could no
longer meet their orders.
It seems curious that at a time when the
emphasis is all on exports the Border district,
for generations owing its livelihood almost
exclusively to overseas trade, should find that
it is compelled to concentrate on home needs.
The Border mills are small, highly specialised
concerns and are in no position to compete
with Yorkshire in mass production. They have
aimed at the fashion houses of the world rather
than at the multiple tailors.
The feeling of frustration is not confined
to manufacturers. Workers trained to a high
pitch of craftsmanship are eager to get back
to the high-class tweeds which they know they
can design and make better than anybody else
in the world.
The shortage of manpower would not be
nearly so acute if we used our human resources
properly. More accurately the situation is a
wastage rather than a shortage. Certain articles
of food and clothing must be rationed, which
involves what is, from the point of strict
economics, waste. It is waste for people to
have to queue for the necessaries of life, it
is waste for shopkeepers to have to clip coupons
for the simplest transaction, and it is waste
for the bureaucrats in their burrows to devise
the forms and the regulations which go with
rationing, and to ensure that the forms are
filled and that the regulations are observed.
It is all a waste of time, which is simply
waste of manpower. The two are synonymous
and the result is devastatingly expensive. Be-
cause Governmental interference with business
life is so expensive and ruinous, it would seem
to be an act of elementary statesmanship to
reduce it rapidly to the lowest possible
minimum. Instead we are doing the precise
opposite. The Government, by intensifying its
interference with trade and industry, is intensi-
fying the problem of insufficient manpower.
The evil has many aspects. It withdraws from
productive labor hundreds of thousands of
people and turns them into non-productive
bureaucrats. It consumes the energies and time
(not to mention the temper) of every adult in
the population. And it throws barrels of sand
into the economic machinery, on whose efficient
functioning a decent standard of life depends.
There has never been and never will be a
prosperous community in which the State strays
outside its sphere and pokes its nose into every
nook and cranny where it has no right to be.
One of the most pernicious manifestations ot
the present Government’s determination to
force our economy into the straitjacket of
official control is the Statistics of Trade Em-
its declared purpose is “to enable certain Gov-
ernment departments to obtain more readily the
information necessary for the , appreciation ot
economic trends and for the discharge of their
functions; to consolidate and amend the law
relating to the census o i production; to provide
for a census of distribution and other services,
and for the purposes connected with the mat-
ters aforesaid.” Even for the preamble to a
Government Bill that is pretty vague, and when
one scrutinises it it becomes largely meaning-
less. But the attitude of the Government
towards trade and industry leaves no doubt
about what it portends —the organisation and
management of our entire economy on the
Nazi model.
J. M. L. (Q.).


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
T^uT^rzlletm.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
■e: —
12 months £l4 0
6 12 «
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —
12 months .. .. 15 0
6 « 0
8 4 0
Free Medicine
“R.W.” (B. 24/9/’47) would apply the
“rigid schedules” and formularies of the
Army to patients in civil life. No doubt
these measures were necessary in the
emergency and relatively efficient when
all the patients were of one gender, of
adult age, living under the same condi-
tions and suffering from more or less
standardised ailments. In the cir-
cumstances, medical care had to be regi-
mented along with feeding and clothing.
In civil life the doctor must prescribe
for all the ills to which both sexes are
liable from the cradle to senility, inherited
or acquired. He has liberty to study
each case on its merits and unlimited
opportunity to prescribe accordingly.
Why fence him in with red tape when he
has been trained to use his brains in
freedom? — Number Nine (S.A.).
One section of Army patients can be
properly treated under a formulary be-
cause the complaints would, in Civvy-
street, be treated from the family
medicine-chest. In the Army the patients
come to the M.O. because the medicine
is free, to waste a bit of time or because
they are young and a long way from
home.
With the really sick soldier, however,
1 was never restricted in my prescribing,
and in rare cases when the dispenser was
unable to supply the drug the Red Cross
would quickly obtain it, Co-operation
like that is unlikely from a Government
department.
Doctors do prescribe from the hospital
pharmacopoeia, but only as a basis—many
special prescriptions are written because
the illness calls for drugs outside the
limits of the pharmacopoeia. The same
argument applies to the Australian Phar-
maceutical Formulary. “R.W.” should
consider the opinions of practising phy-
sicians about “free medicine.” —Jock
(Vic.).
Thirty Years Ago
Many old Diggers must have felt a
pang of regret when they read that
“Labor’s” Governor-General, Mr. Mc-
Kell, miss'ed out on his first march for 30
years on Six-Hour Day. I thought it might
be interesting to go back the 30 years to
1917, so I consulted Volume IV of Aus-
tralia’s Official War History to see what
was happening to Australia’s patriots
while their contemporary, the future
Commander-in-Chief, was strutting along
Park-street in all his glory.
Not being too sure on what day the
great occasion fell, I took one month—
September 20 to October 20 of 1917 —
and found these historic names: Menin-
road. Polygon Wood, Broodseinde and
Passchendaele. In a short 30 days, the
men of our First A.I.F. were embroiled
in these four bloody actions which cost
22,377 casualties.
It was not only combat with the enemy
that the A.I.F. had to face. The fields of
Flanders had turned to liquid mud and,
looking at the conditions as portrayed
on the printed page, one can only be
amazed that any man survived at all. The
squalor and misery of mud and rain took
its toll. Influenza, trench feet and dysen-
tery sapped the strength of the fighting
units. On October 9 the Sixth Brigade
had only 600 available men and the
Seventh Brigade 700.
It would be presumptuous on my part
to attempt to describe the extent of the
suffering and misery that prevailed when
there are words of one who was there.
The Official War Correspondent recorded
in his diary on October 9:
It was on the Menin-road that I first
noticed the condition in which our men
were coming back. A couple passed us,
going very slow. They were white and
drawn and detached, and' put one foot
slowly in front of the other, as I had not
seen men do since the Somme winter
but these men looked whiter A man of
the 20th Battalion limping. He had some
wound inside the thigh which was still
bleeding As he passed us he grinned up
and volunteered, “We got the b ——s good
on the second ridge.”
The four big actions referred to, and
the Third Battle of Ypres, had seriously
depleted the A.I.F. and, because of
diminished recruiting in Australia, the
units in France had to depend to a great
extent for reinforcements on the return
of sick and wounded men. As a conse-
quence, on November 8, 1917, the Prime
Minister announced that another referen-
dum on conscription would be held. We
all know that amateur boxer and foot-
baller McKell and his ilk successfully
fought it, and that the weary A.I.F. in
Flanders went on as before.
So on the first Monday in October in
1917 the future Commander-in-Chief
strode safely along Park-street, Sydney,
with a £lO,OOO a year job waiting in the
future as a reward for his self-sacrificing
patriotism. On the same day there were
men of the A.I.F. on the Menin-road
coughing their way into T.B. pensions.
But for all his £lO,OOO a year, McKell
will never be one of Australia’s truly
great. The marchers of the duckboards
of Flanders have engraven their exploits
too deeply into the hearts of real Aus-
tralians to allow that to happen.— Tidak
Makan (N.S.W.).
The Constitution
The framers of Australia’s Common-
wealth Constitution should have defined
the Commonwealth’s banking powers
clearly enough to leave no doubt as to
their extent. Provision should also have
been made to prevent nationalisation of
any industry ruled within the Federal
Government’s competence unless a refer-
endum were held.
The Senate should also have been
formed on lines that would have rendered
it of real value as a house of revision.
No provision was made for the easy for-
mation of new States. With only six
States, each with a majority of urban
dwellers, it should have been evident
that if the voters wefe the same, far from
the Senate composition differing from
that of the Reps, it was likely to reflect
more sharply a prevalent political trend.
How much wiser were the men who
framed Canada’s Constitution! They took
care to make the Second Chamber an un-
swampable life-nominee House. Had Aus-
tralia’s Senate been so constituted there
would have been no fear of the country’s
future being dependent on a legal deci-
sion, Even with election, better forms
than the one chosen could have been
devised.
Experience has shown that for the
citizen to enjoy real liberty with universal
suffrage, it is necessary to have either
“Well, darling. I'll loddle of now. Say goodbye to your husband
for me."
a conservative Upper House or the civil
rights and the property of the individual
protected by constitutional guarantee,
unchangeable except by referendum.
The greatest danger of revolutionary
action comes from the Left. Conservative
Governments rarely try more than mild
and generally advantageous modification
of changes wrought by the other side.
But when in a position to dominate a
whole Parliament, a Government of the
Left is strongly tempted to run amuck. —
Morris the Tinker (W.A.)*
Army Dress
“Joe” Gullett’s remarks in the Federal
House about the shocking turnout of
Australian soldiers were most opportune.
It is a source of continuing despair to ex-
officers of the A.I.F. to see what the
Australian Army has accepted as a suffi-
cient standard, and the comment of a
“Labor” warrior that Mr. Gullett wanted
our soldiers' “to be glamor boys like
himself” was only to be expected from
a man whose tailor has never had to
make him other than civilian clothes.
It is a great pity those warriors on
Treasury and back benches did not avail
themselves of all the recent opportunities
to gain a closer acquaintance with uni-
forms. If they had they would have
learned that a soldier who does not take
a pride in his appearance is a very poor
soldier indeed. — Sapper (N.S.W.).
Overseas Specialists
America leads in the field of medical
research (B. 17/9/ ’47) because research
went on there during the war more or
less without interruption. Our teaching
methods are good and we turn out ex-
cellent general practitioners, but anyone
wanting to specialise in some branch
must go either to the U.S.A. or Britain
for the necessary post-graduate course.
Thus the latest resources are concentrated
in a few centres, and it is to these that
special cases are taken.
Also, although the percentage of
certain ailments may be nearly the same,
the actual numbers are much greater in
thickly-populated countries. I, for one,
would prefer a surgeon who has drawn
up his own technique and proven it over
a number of cases —a country practitioner
can, theoretically, perform every type of
operation, but he invariably sends the
difficult cases to the specialist in one of
the larger cities.
Anyway, it’s hard to follow “Mark
Time’s” reasoning. If people are willing
to subscribe for a patient to go to
America for special treatment, what’s
wrong with that? We still have some
freedom left. —R. W. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matte*
How many hours a week does a
Unionist expect his wife to work? The
family next door has three unionists —
father and two sons. Mother rises at
6 a.m ; to get her men their breakfasts and
cut their lunches. Their dinner is waiting
for them at 6 p.m. Each man as he
finishes his meal lights a cigarette and
leaves the table. The woman washes up
and then settles down to mending shirts
and darning socks. On Saturdays the men
usually go to the night trots and expect
supper when they come home. As a rule
the woman works over 80 hours a week,
but she seems happy.— Prospero (W.A.).
I can throw some light on stock losses
in Queensland (B. 17/9/’47). If our
Central West members don’t take more
interest in the dingo question they won’t
have any shearers to vote for them in a
few years. I am a very small grower in-
side a netted area. Dingoes have cost
me £2OOO over the last three years, and a
tidy bit this year. One station outside,
the Duchess, lost so heavily in three years
as to have few sheep for the final shear-
ing. Another property not far from here
caught 40 dingoes inside the netting in
12 months. This is a national disaster,
and every property that goes out of sheep
throws a greater weight on those remain-
ing. Remedy: put £3 bonus a head on all
dingo scalps,—J. R. L. (Q.).
The order of priorities for shipping
services to Darwin seems to be (1) Army
cargo, (2) beer, (3) groceries. Darwin is
suffering a shortage of tinned and
powdered milk, tea, sugar, potatoes, flour
and other necessities of life. Yet all
general cargo on the last ship from Bris-
bane was cancelled to make room for
Army cargo and for beer. Shipping
space on Westralian ships was taken away
from grocery firms and allotted to
breweries. There may be some method
in this madness —people fuddled with beer
are less likely to complain.— Wingella
(N.T.).
That Renmark Community Hotel (B.
1/10/’47) has a monopoly for a district
carrying 12,000 people and pays no rent,
rates or taxes. It made £12,000 for the
year. Whyalla (S.A.) has three hotels
for a population of 8000 and they pay
a total of £lO,OOO a year in rent alone.
Presumably they make a profit. If Ren-
mark establishment were required to pay
an equivalent rent its profit would dis-
appear. And the price of drinks and
services is higher than in the Whyalla
hotels. — Monte Fiore (S.A.).
It was the Chifley-Holloway-Ward
gang who shrieked with horror when the
“Tory” Government introduced the
National Security Bill. They yelled “It is
too much authority to give to any one
person.” But as soon as they got control
they used the power in many ways that
were never intended—you even have to
sign a bunch of forms to get a sheet of
iron for your fowlhouse! If it was bad
policy in 1939, why have they changed
their minds in 1947? — Bert (Q.).
There is, I think, a simple explanation
for the apparently unaccountable
acceleration of motor-cyclists in emer-
gencies (B. 15/10/’47). On all motor-
bikes that I’ve had the hand-throttle was
always wound back to accelerate. When
a rider, particularly a novice, is suddenly
confronted by a pedestrian or other ob-
struction he automatically pulls back on
the handlebars in an effort to stop his bike,
and, of course, succeeds only in pulling
his throttle open and increasing his speed.
I did exactly that many times when I
started riding, and I’ve often wondered
why manufacturers don’t reverse the
action of the hand-throttle. Then, when
a rider pulled back on the handlebars in
fear or in haste he would automatically
cut down his speed.—Philp (Vic.).
Add Herbert Spencer to the list of
scientists who deny the conflict between
science and religion (B. 6/8/’47). He
argued that the scientist is prone to be
more deeply religious than his fellows.
The wonders of Nature revealed to the
geologist cause him to stand in awe be-
fore their Creator. So with astronomers
and other scientists. All find that they
reach a point beyond which all is mys-
tery, and the greatest of them stands
humble before it. —Minto (Q.).
Opposition to immigration because of
the housing shortage could be overcome
by importing young people who do not
need houses, and who could be accom-
modated in hostels and the like. There
is a good chance at present to get young
people of both sexes from England,
America and other white countries. They
could go straight to farms, where they
would be assured of good living condi-
tions, or they could be drafted into in-
dustry and housed in Government hostels
in the cities. —M. T. R. (N.S.W.).
Mr. Calvell is reported to have said
that 150 Italians brought here under his
immigration scheme were to do essential
work that Australians would not do —•
supplying timber from the Kalgoorlie'
wood line to keep the mines going. For
similar reasons, 280 Poles were brought
here from England. I’ve no particular
quarrel with all that, but I suggest that
Mr. Calvell apply the idea to other jobs
that Australians will not do. He could
start by indenting labor for the coalmines,
then for the wharves, and then for our
transport concerns, factories, powerhouses
and other establishments that are continu-
ally thrown into idleness because Aus-
tralians won’t work in them. — Rex (S.A.).
Has “Hist” (B. 8/10/’47) never heard
of Mr. Scully’s wheat restrictions? Dur-
ing the war while Mr. Beasley, as Minister
for Supply, was building four wheat dis-
tilleries, Mr. Scully, as Minister for
Agriculture, was restricting wheat acreage
and, even up to 1946, paid Westraiian
growers 12s. an acre not to sow wheat.
This restriction, plus the action of the
Government marketing monopoly, was
more responsible for the fall in wheat
production than were “crop failures.”
Not only was well over a million wasted
building the four distilleries, but scores
of millions were lost through acreage
restrictions and the Government’s failure
to pay growers a more equitable price.
As Macaulay said over 100 years ago,
“Three things invariably happen when a
Government touches any commodity. It
becomes scarce, it becomes bad, it be-
comes dear.” — Graz (N.S.W.).
Building Costs
Home-seekers are sadly aware of the
present cost of building but, even so,
those who have entrusted the work to
private enterprise will be a great deal
better off than the unfortunates moving
into Government-built jobs intending to
take them over on a purchase-loan agree-
ment.
Acomparison of building costs would be
laughable were it not so tragic. Allowing
material costs to be roughly the same,
private enterprise can build a house
cheaper and quicker than the Govern-
ment, the main reason for the latter’s high
costs being “go-slow” on Government
“projects.” That—combined with a readi-
ness to walk off the job, if the foreman is
a conscientious type, to ask the Minister
for extra pay and to demand and obtain
money for time off caused by their own
organisations—results in considerable ex-
penditure of public money for very little
return. There is also the overhead created
by the huge administrative departments
inseparable from all Government “enter-
prises.”
With the Government allegedly intent
on building so many homes, surely the
average price per unit should be below
and not above that of private enterprise,
which has to consider “the profit motive.”
—Homesick (N.S.W.).


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
ERG
••
1 : s
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK. TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING.
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD., •
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia:
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.,
SUVA.
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones; B 6565, B 4448
