

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 68—No. 3501
Wednesday, March 19, 1947
Price 6d.
w
Seppelts
CLOYNE CATHEDRAL.
in ancient times as Cluaincuamhach, meaning “retreat
of the caves,” Cloyne is a small township on the east side of
Cork harbour, Southern Ireland. A notable landmark, the round
tower of Cloyne is one of the oldest in a country noted for these
curious strongholds which are survivals from as early as the ninth
century. The Cloyne round tower was struck by lightning in
January, 1794, its conical top and three of its lofts, with the bell,
Being destroyed. The bishopric of Cloyne was founded by St.
Colman in the sixth century. The old cruciform cathedral dates
from the fourteenth century: it houses a number of monuments to
former bishops and possesses an interesting Georgian woodwork
screen to divide the nave from the choir.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney , ‘Bulletin. ,,
AGE
My Name ..
My Address
8.8. 147 ..
The Red Page
A "NATIONAL" GALLERY.
For my small son, the most important
aspect of a first visit to Sydney was
contained in Taronga Park. For me it
was in the National Art Gallery. Each
of us, in his way, was trying, I suppose,
to enlarge a working knowledge of the
world and the entities it contains; as
well as to satisfy some aesthetic long-
rigs. Neither, of us, fresh from New
"ealand, had any detailed information as
to what we might expect.
I was disappointed, and he wasn’t.
Pleasurable anticipations induced by
the dignity and remoteness of the gallery
Itself were first shocked by the extensive
‘splay of reproductions of the work of
Gertrude Stein’s Sunday visitors. It was as
though the Gallery authorities were afraid
to greet the stranger with an introductory
display of typical Australian art.
I can buy reproductions myself, of
equal aesthetic and comparable intrinsic
value, and in any case I can study them
in the art department of any modern
reference library.
The collection was interesting only in
that Gertrude herself might have done
the choosing of at least ninety per cent,
of the subject?. Derain, for instance, was
contemptuously dismissed, as she would
have dismissed him, with one poorish
landscape, though 1 later discovered
another landscape, an orginal, in another
part of the gallery. For me, Derain’s
greatest attraction lies in the line of his
figure work; and for this I prize him
above his contemporaries.
That is a purely personal preference.
My real objection, after some weeks of
travel, was to be confronted with re-
productions at all. I had seen a good
many of the originals. Even stay-at-home
New Zealanders could have seen, for in-
stance, Marc’s “Red Horses,” which
toured the Shivery Islands in the charge
of Mrs. Elizabeth Delbruck in the early
years of the war.
I would have liked to have seen some-
thing of Norman Lindsay’s. I searched
without success. Hans Heysen was
delightfully represented but with only one
picture. I looked in vain for a gum-tree,
or something of his Ss clear-cut and
typical as the red mountains which were
chosen to represent his work in a (very
uneven) exhibition of Australian art show-
ing in Chicago in 1943. In the same ex-
hibition I had first seen Dobell’s work,
taking particular notice of his “Boy with
a Towel.” I still like it best of Dobell’s;
but I think the Gallery should contain
four of Heysen’s to one of Dobell’s,
rather than the other way round.
This is particularly so because the
Gallery expresses, to the visitor, the Aus-
tralian viewpoint as it affects a very im-
portant aspect of life. You can put a
finger on Heysen’s work and say, “That’s
Australia. Those clean hard colors, that
sparse and happy pattern could come
from no other place.”-. Dobell’s boy
hasn’t even a good Australian tan. He
looks a very recent immigrant, and cer-
tainly he is not home-grown.
Some of my disappointment could be
attributed to the fact that I would have
thought it a graceful gesture to my own
country if our best artists had a place.
At least Peter Mclntyre, official war
artist, could have been represented.
Frances Hodgkins, of whom a recent
acquisition is hung, is included in a group
of English artists.
Sketches reproductions again —of
Toulouse-Lautrec looked out of place.
Surely they were not more worthy than
the work of my countrymen Low and
Minhinnick? Or of Ted Scorfield, Unk
White and a dozen other Australians?
In the same section a German bloke
named Klee is represented by a dozen or
so reproductions. My youngster is no art
critic. He looks up to the drawings of
Emile Mercier, whom we both admire,
and hopes some day to emulate, or even
surpass him. But Klee? “1 can do better
than that,” says Junior. I’ve always
found in his observations a certain valu-
able honesty. Remember in the fairytale
it was a child who saw clearly that the
King wasn’t wearing any clothes at all.
His opinion is backed up by mine. I’m
certain Junior is better than Klee. Put it
down to parental pride if you will. But
in the case of an adult Versus a child there
shouldn’t be any room for doubt at all.
Instead of twelve reproductions of the
incoherencies of Klee, why should there
not be just one original Felix Topolski
drawing, if the international note must be
maintained? Why not one Tchelitchew,
which could show that startlingly original
luminosity which is lost in reproduction?
These things would set a standard more
modern, more mysterious (and possibly for
a Sydney public more incomprehensible)
than any number of cheap reproductions.
There was another insult to my
country, but this time by an Australian
artist, C. Lloyd-Jones tossed" off a light
little thing called “Auckland Blue.” And
here and now I rise categorically to state
that Auckland never saw such a color.
Not connected with its harbor, which
has as strong a hold on the public con-
sciousness as has Sydney’s.
I had always thought Australians were
horsemen. They were and they still are ;
even though their connection exists only
through the S.P. bookmaker. This
thought came to me when studying the
muddiest Munnings I have ever seen.
Almost the only example of the Aus-
tralian’s preoccupation with the horse
in the whole gallery comes incidentally in
Tom Roberts’s “Bailed Up.”
Between a first and a second visit,
Jacouleff’s lovely nude was shifted from
a well-deserved position occupying the
back vista of the Gallery to a completely
obscure one in a side alcove, where it
definitely could not be appreciated from
any angle. This was probably sheer
ignorance on the part of the furniture
shifters. Inquiry revealed that the change
was made so that all the English painters
might be together. A whole crowd of
new people who, I was assured, had been
waiting in London for the last six years
had been admitted to august company.
They looked dreadfully out of place, and
Sir William Orpen and Augustus John
with Lamorna Birch still dominated the
collection.
It’s fair enough to say that I was com-
pletely satisfied with Gruner’s “Spring
Frost,” with Tom Roberts, "Streeton and
some of Rupert Bunny, with a nude of
Rah Fizelle’s and Longstaff’s Henry
Lawson, with Julian Ashton’s prospector
and Power’s “Enemy in Sight.”
But a National Gallery should be con-
cerned with community interests. There
are some pictures that are too big, in
conception, treatment or actual bulk, for
any one member of the public to own.
Russell Flint’s “The Lemnians” comes
to mind as an.example. In Sydney there
are probably no two men who possess
the acme of suavity, the graciousness,
and the surroundings necessary to carry
off ownership of such a picture. Of these
two, if they exist, it is possible that
neither wants the thing anyway. The
result is that the community should own
the picture, if it has any value. And in
this case, the community does.
But too many of the Gallery walls
are occupied with small paintings, small
in conception and small in execution,
which would have even more community
value if they' hung on the walls of a
private home. “Cairns Store,” painted
by Donald Friend, was probably the work
of five minutes. If it was not, that was
the fault of the artist. It was a small
thing, executed at a time when there
were mighty topics in the world for
artists to be concerned with. To my
thinking it should hang beside a juke-
box in a milk bar.
Sydney’s National Art Gallery, as a
place to visit, cannot be written off the
slate altogether. After the Domain itself
with its Moreton Bay figs and its palms,
though, it is anticlimax. It is not Aus-
tralia, and large sections of it are not
even interesting. But the turnstiles are
still clicking at Taronga Park. Maybe
I’ll find my mental level there and learn to
accept ihe fact that Sydney’s aesthetic ap-
preciation comes front imported animals.
OLAF RUHEN.
A Katherine Mansfield
Mystery.
Did Katherine Mansfield write a novel
called Maata? And, if so, where is it?
These are the questions Pat Lawlor
attempts to answer in The Mystery of
Maata (Beltane Book Bureau, Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.).
Mr. Lawlor is inclined* to believe that
such a novel was written, and that he is
on the track of the MSS. In fact, he says
he met a lady who, claiming to be the
original Maata —a friend of Katherine
Mansfield —says she is in possession of
the manuscript, 60,000 words long.
Some time in December, 1940, I was
discussing books with a Maori friend
He said that a friend of his went to school
with Katherine Mansfield He said her
name was Maata, that she had a hug*
bundle of letters written to her by Katherine
Mansfield, also the MSS of an unpublished
novel.
Maata, the story goes on, visited Mr.
Lawlor’s office, where she was found to
be “of medium height, dark-skinned.
attractive and interesting, very serious,
neatly dressed.” She “concluded with
the brief statement that she last met
Katherine Mansfield in London early in
the, century and corresponded with her
until she died.”
“Is there any possibility of my seeing
the manuscript?” I asked.
Maata remained silent for a space of
about thirty seconds.
“I cannot give you an answer just now,”
said in a modulated yet very emphatic voice.
Why not? Well, according to Mr.
Lawlor’s Maori friend, the MSS is tapu.
“His explanation was that the Maori had
a complex regarding such matters. The
inevitable question of the sacredness of
suoh personal objects intruded and they
just went on postponing the ultimate de-
cision.”
And there the mystery rests —except
that Mr. Lawlor has made all possible
inquiries as to whether the MSS of an un-
published novel could be in existence.
Middleton Murry confirms that there was
an original Maata, a girlhood friend of
Katherine Mansfield, and that, amongst
still-unpublished fragments, there is at
least a chapter of the novel Maata in ex-
istence ; possibly a little more, with a
synopsis. But this is not quite the manu-
script Mr. Lawlor is hunting. An in-
quiry to Nelia Gardner White, whose
Daughter of Time was a fictionised
biography of Katherine Mansfield,
brought a reply that seems to suggest
there may have been an earlier and more
complete version of the novel:
I was under the impression that this
novel had been destroyed, but I am not at
all sure of it. At least, I doubt if Mr.
Murry has it The novel was an early
' effort so it may not be too good. Still, it
excites me to think that it may be in
existence.
All admirers of Katherine Mansfield’s
genius will be similarly excited. It’s to
be hoped that Mr. Lawlor manages to
solve his mystery.
Lost in the Dark.
New Zealand has not been very well
served by its 1946 Arts Year Book (H. H.
Tombs, Ltd., Wellington), edited by
Howard Wadman. If it is intended as a
survey of the year’s creative activity, it is
chiefly notable for its omissions. For ex-
ample :
Take him all round, admitting his limi-
tations, Arnold Wall is the most dis-
tinguished poet living and writing in New
Zealand —he has an original mind. He
is neither represented in the contributions
to this book nor mentioned in the text.
One of the leading painters in New
Zealand is Peter Mclntyre, who was
official war artist. None of his paintings
are reproduced in this book, nor is he
mentioned in the text.
The outstanding prose work of 1946
in New Zealand was Roderick Finlay-
son’s novel Tidal Creek. It has not yet
been published in book form (though it
has been accepted by Angus and Robert-
son), but the bulk of it was printed in
Thb Bulletin. No contribution by Fin-
layson appears in Arts Year Book, nor
is he mentioned in the text.
New Zealanders have had most cause
for pride in recent years in the develop-
ment of the short story. Here, be-
yond question, there has been work
of the highest quality, of world standard ;
it has been recognised in England, and
three New Zealanders were represented
in the last Coast to Coast. The Bulletin
has had excellent work from Finlayson,
J. H. Melville, A. P. Gaskell and
Gloria Rawlinson; and other names
have cropped up in New Zealand
New Writing. Until more work
has been done, years of it, it is too soon
to talk about the arrival of major writers.
But a survey of the year’s creative activity
should surely draw attention to first-class
writing. Except for a reference to Sarge-
son, overpraising his “novels”—“He is too
civilised for us” —no mention is made in
Arts Year Book of the short story writers.
Finally, the outstanding critical work
of 1946 was J. C. Reid’s Creative Writ-
ing in New Zealand. It may have been
published too late in the year for notice
in Arts Year Book. Certainly it is not
mentioned, nor is Mr. Reid a contributor.
A publication which contrives to lose
in the dark New Zealand’s best work in
poetry, painting, the novel, the short story
and belles lettres can hardly be regarded
as an adequate summary of the year’s
creative activity. E. H. McCormick, who
finds in an introductory essay “grounds
for mild assurance,” asks “Are we for
ever doomed to live with the secondhand
and the third rate?” And the answer to
that may be “Yes ; if you choose to shut
your eyes to the first rate when it is pro-
duced in your country.”
The inclusion of some photographs of
houses —though always of a certain tragic
charm these days—hardly compensates for
these omissions, nor do copious notes on
the activities of Little Theatres. A general
survey of the year’s writing and publish-
ing would be much more to the point.
If the book is not intended to be a
survey of this kind it is difficult to see
what other purpose it serves. Containing
only a handful of poems (including a
fragment of a verse play by Allen
Curnow—one would need to see the
whole play before commenting) and two
slight essays, the literary section of the
book seems designed chiefly to interest
its small group of contributors and the
actors of the Little Theatres.
The art section is a good deal better,
for at least plenty of paintings are re-
produced. But Mr. Wadmaris preface
must make an overseas reader doubtful
whether the selection is an adequate rep-
resentation of the year’s work. TTie editor,
admitting a preference for “what is
loosely called ‘modern’ work,” has in-
cluded a number of traditional paintings,
but the emphasis seems strongly in favor
of experimental pictures—nearly all de-
rivative and again looking like the work
of a small group. It is noticeable tnat
the only paintings having the benefit of
color reproduction are those of
“modernists,” the traditional painters hav-
ing in all cases to struggle against the limi-
tations of black-and-white reproduction.
Mr. Wadman’s point of view is:
The other kind of art which is concerned
with the expression of an inner vision
teems with difficulty. We cannot know for
certain what the artist is trying to do; we
can guess, and according to Picasso we
usually guess wrong. We cannot say,
therefore, whether he [the artist] has suc-
ceeded or not. We do not even know
whether he is sincere, for such a wide
freedom as we must now grant will admit
many impostors. Yet... .all must be free to
say whatever they wish to say, and we must
accept the risk that it may be nonsense.
This is all very well if Arts Year Book is
meant to express the viewpoint and the
output of youthful experimenters. But
regarding the volume as a national sur-
vey, one would expect rather more cer-
tainty of critical judgment. Mr. Wad-
man’s outlook necessitates, of course, the
complete surrender of the mind of man.
“We cannot say ; we do not know” ...
and a daub with the tail of a dopkey may
be the equal of a portrait by Reynolds.
The literary section contains a couple
of delightful lyricsi by A. R. D. Fairburn:
My head to my heart has said
I’m a fool to feel as I do,
dear, on my way to you,
like a boy just out of school
hell-bent for the swimming-pool:
for I might find you dead
or warm in the arms of a fool.
But I leap into the brightness
as once when I was a boy,
on a mountain, rash with joy,
I stepped off into the whiteness
of a snow-bank shining and beckoning,
delighted, taking no reckoning.
And if, as is surely The case, the merits
of such a poem are immediately recognis-
able, there really is no justification
for a critic of the sister art of painting
to surrender to intellectual chaos. If you
can pick a genuine man in poetry, why
surrender to an “impostor” in painting?
Mr. Wadman is like a watchman in the
night who has deliberately thrown away
his lantern.
Yet, in fact, there is no difficulty at all
in recognising the genuine quality of a
landscape by Rata Lovell-Smith in Arts
Year Book. Likewise a sculpture by
Margaret Butler of “Mrs. Love, Queen
of Rarotonga.”
Whatever faults it may have, and how-
ever much it is under pre-Raphaelite and
surrealist influence, A. Lois White’s “Ode
to Autumn,” reproduced in color as the
frontispiece, is obviously an attractive
piece of work. And a second painting
by the same artist, reproduced in black
and white, is just as obviously too much
influenced by Stanley Spencer.
Mr. Wadman “may not know,” per-
haps he “cannot say,” but anybody with
half an eye should be able to point out,
in rapid succession among the reproduc-
tions, pictures apparently . painted by
those famous New Zealand modernists
Van Gogh, Paul Nash, Hokusai, Gauguin
and Salvador Dali.
Mr. Wadman is responsible for a state-
ment even more remarkable than that he
“does not know” and he “cannot say”:
We acknowledge the skill and ingenuity
spent in making faithful copies of the sur-
face appearance of things, and we know
what useful disciplines of observation and
drawing are involved in doing so. But it
seems to us that no one with any knowledge
of the history or [sic] art can regard such
activity as anything but a fleeting interest
that returns from time to time in the less
creative periods of the human adventure.
“A fleeting interest that returns
from time to time in the less-
creative periods of the human adven-
ture ! ” There was a “fleeting interest” in
faithful anatomy during the flowering of
Greek sculpture ; a “fleeting interest” in
faithful portraiture in the great days of
Roman sculpture ; and, from Titian to
Turner, the masters of plastic art have
never lost their “fleeting interest” in
revealing truth through a faithful copy of
the surface appearance of things—a “copy"
lit with the artist’s personal vision.
While it is edited and compiled in this
fashion Arts Year Book must continue to
show the New Zealand culture flounder-
ing in the lt is not altogether a
fair picture, and the editor may well ask
himself “Wadman, what of the night?”


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
See the
Demonstration
Agricultural Exhibit
Royal Easter Show
Be sure to see the advantages of the Planet Jr.
Hand Tractor demonstrated at our Exhibit at the
Royal Easter Show.
A
Ybs
al
*!PA/
to*
ey
*rABo
ABi*
UR
s*Ovv
wmmm
yky'yyy.
■ m
WgmM
i
m
mmmm
mii- ' - '' - ,l ’ l '
Cultivating Equipment includes
one G.T.I single row equipment.
This is used primarily for
hoeing and cultivating narrow row
vegetable crops.
j
GT-lEOUIPT
A
GT-2 EODIPT.
GT3 EOUIPT
What you have waited for . . . the Planet Jr. Hand Tractor!
Here is a Tractor with features you need. The Planet Jr. Tractor is fitted
with 3 h.p. Motor. The Planet Jr. is supplied complete with a
Three Row Seeder Attachment which will sow almost every type of seed. It
also has a Fertilizer Attachment which will apply
Fertilizer at the same time as seeding. It puts
the fertilizer into the ground up to four inches deep
and either directly under the seed or in a band
beside the row as desired. If desired, terms can be
arranged, and the price of the Planet Jr. complete is
TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED.
G.T.2 single row equipment is generally used in larger growing crops and for heavier
cultivating. Seven 8-inch reversible cultivator steels are furnished with the G.T.2
—two 1-inch steels for making neat the row and five 2i-inch steels.
G.T.3. Three row equipment for narrow rows. It makes an efficient three row culti-
vator for such crops as onions, spinach, beets, carrots, etc. It will handle three
rows from 1 2 inches to 1 5 inches apart, and will do just as good and just as thorough
a job of weeding and cultivating as a one row outfit.
Delivery free within Delivery Area. Country freight extra.
• Agricultural Implements—Fourth Floor , Pitt Street.
’PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
f 51
5
ANTHONY
A
HORDERNS
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


FESQ, CASSON & CO. PTY. LTD. Established 181,8
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
RIGBY’S ROMANCE, by Tom Collins (Joseph Furphy). Author of ‘‘Such
Is Life.” A. G. Stephens wrote, “Who reads it slowly, as it is written,
will learn Australia and acquire virtue.” 8/6 (post. 6d.).
LOST HAVEN, by Kylie Tennant. An amusing, original and gusty novel
about a little lost township in New South Wales. 10/6 (post. 4d.).
OUT OF THE STRONG, by Patricia Costello, An engrossing story of
life in the outback of Western Australia. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
THE OVERLANDERS, by Dora Birtles. An ever popular story.
8/6 (post. 4d.).
DUSTY, by Frank Dalby Davison. This is a book for lovers of animals
and lovers of literature. 8/6 (post.-4d.).
LEVIATHAN’S INCH, by Brian Elliott. A novel of contemporary life,
refreshingly unusual in conception. 7/6 (post, 4d.)
BLACK OPAL, by Katherine Susannah Prichard. A story set in the opal
fields of Lightning Ridge. 8/6 (post. 4d.).
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
MA 6511.
“TWO TICKETS
TO TASSIE FOR POP!
Booking for air travel with TAA is
child’s play. Just reach for your
telephone and make your booking to
any state in the Commonwealth. No
fuss no formality no ticket sign-
ing and remember, you can carry
as much baggage as you wish . . .
35 lbs. free, and excess from as little
as 6d. per lb. Both you and your
baggage are protected by TAA’s free
insurance scheme.
SYDNEY TO
Children under 4 yrs. free (I per
adult pass.), under 15 yrs.. half fare.
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
SYDNEY, Phillip House, 119 Phillip Street, near Martin
Place, Tel. B 0526 . . . MELBOURNE, Myer Building, 273
Lonsdale Street, Tel. MU 6751 (New address as from
17th March, 339 Swanston Street, Melbourne.) . . .
BRISBANE, Terrica House, Cr. Adelaide and Creek
Streets, Tel. 81341 , . . ADELAIDE, Anchor House,
142 North Terrace, Tel. Cent. 7545 . . . PERTH, St.
George’s House, St. George’s Terrace, Tel. B 2453 . . .
CANBERRA, Civic Centre, Tel. F 615 . , . HOBART,
Cr. Collins and Argyle Streets, Tel. 7411 . . . LAUN-
CESTON, Cr. Brisbane and George Streets, Tel. 2061.
F-27-47
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy Vol. 2 (Horticulture) of The
Queensland Agricultural and Pastoral Hand-
book. —3967. „
Words of verse “Maloney s Cockatoo. —
3966. , ,
To buy copies of The Trial and Death of
Socrates, Meditations by Descartes, Principles
of Human Knowledge by Berkeley, Greek
Philosophy by Burnet and Essay Concerning
Pluman Understanding. —3965.
English girl (20) would like to correspond
with young Australians. —3964.
To buy copy of Poems in Praise of Prac-
tically Nothing by Samuel Hoffenstein.—3963.
Information Sought.
Are convalescent and rest homes in N.S.W.
required to be licensed?
Convalescent and rest homes are not at
present licensed, only those institutions which
come under the category of private hos-
pitals as defined by the N.S.W. Private Hos-
pitals Act, 1908. The definition of such hos-
pital is contained in Section 2 of the Act, viz.:
“Any house, building, tent or place (other than
an institution wholly or in part supported by
the State) in which medical, surgical or lying-in
cases are received or lodged or in which it is
intended that they shall be received and lodged
for treatment, attendance or care, and a charge
is made for such treatment, attendance or care.”
Many of the keepers of convalescent and rest
homes elect to register under the provisions
of the Private Hospitals Act. The premises
are then regularly inspected by officers of the
Health Department and the requirements of
the Act must be carried out.
* * * *
Maximum fixed price of pressed wheaten
hay retail to consumers, at August 15, 1945,
by rail to Albury (JN.S.W.) from north-west
N.S.W. ?
Fixed maximum price was £7 10s. per ton
on rail growers’ siding. This means that the
price to you would be £7 10s. on rail at the
station in the north-west whence the hay
was dispatched. This figure, however,
would be much higher on rail at Albury, as
there are freight and other handling charges to
be taken into consideration. If purchase was
made through a retailer at Albury there would
be something like the following: £7 10s. f.o.r.
growers’ siding, plus actual freight involved,
plus up to a maximum of 30s. handling charge,
plus possibly 5s. agenEs fees and plus possibly
a further charge of 5s. per ton for cartage.
This could make the cost at Albury at least
£9 per ton or more.
« * ♦ *
Is there any method of destroying rabbit
burrows by explosion?
Except when dealing with vermin harbor in
stony barrier country the use of explosives is
rarely resorted to. In dealing with ordinary
burrow harbor the safe and effective methods or
digging out, ploughing out or fumigating have
proved satisfactory. Some people when using
bisulphide of carbon for rabbits or wombat
destruction fire the material, which results in
an explosion with generally unsatisfactory re-
sults, wasting the effects of the gas and doing
little or no damage to the burrow or warren.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of Don Tallon’s record wicket-
keeping effort for Queensland v. N.S.W. in
1938-39; who were the players and how dis-
missed? (2) How many wickets did Tallon take
that season in Sheffield Shield matches ? (.3)
Tallon’s age? „ , T
(1) Played at Sydney, Dec. 31, 1938, and Jan.
2,3, 4, 1939. Barnes, Cheetljam, McCaffrey,
Gulliver (twice), Fitzpatrick, Easton, Pepper and
White were caught; Fitzpatrick, James ana
McCaffrey were stumped. (2) Tallon took eight
(four caught and four stumped) v. N.S.W., two
(caught) v. Vic., two (one caught and one
stumped) v. S.A., one (caught) v. S.A., and
eight (four caught and four stumped) v. yic.,
total, 33. (3) Tallon is 31, born Feb. 17, 1916.
* * * *
How to grow bulbs in fibre without soil in
ornamental containers ?
Make a mixture of bulb fibre, crushed shell
and charcoal (sold by plant merchants) and
pack it into containers to within an inch ot
the top. Set bulbs in this, then place con-
tainers in a cool corner until growth shows
through and by stages bring them to the day-
light. Keep the mixture moist but not oyer-
wet, or rot will set in. Bulbs grown in fibre
are not heavily-rooted and must be kept away
from strong winds; also it is essential to turn
the containers every day to let the sun strengthen
growth and evenness of flowering. Daffodils,
hyacinths and lachenalias are excellent for this
type of indoor work.
« * ♦ *
(1) How to propagate azaleas? (2) Best time
to plant evergreen trees and shrubs?
(1) Azaleas are propagated by layering.
Choose a limb growing near the soil and break
it slightly in the middle, then pin the limb down
at the break with a piece of strong wire or a
forked stick. In 12 months it will have rooted
and can be cut from the shrub and planted in
the open garden. The section should be
watered regularly. Azaleas can also he raised
from cuttings under glass and alsp from seed,
but the work is a gamble. (2) Best time to
plant out evergreen shrubs and trees is in March
and April, in order to get the advantage of the
warm soil; always stake them firmly to ensure
upright growth.
Brief Answers.
G.H.T.; (1) The captain of a four is not en-
titled to stop a bowl which has been played on
the forehand in opposition to his request that
the bowl be played on the backhand. (2) It is
covered by the following rule, “Wilful disturb-
ance; No player shall wilfully disturb a
head. Penalty: The result of the end shall be
the addition to the score of the opponent or
opposing team of as many shots as there are
bowls being played at each end by such
opponent or opposing team.” H.J.: Sid
Godfrey won the Australian lightweight cham-
-1 pionship from Harry Stone in 1921, and lost
the title to Hughie Dwyer in 1922. Godfrey is
now licensee of the Horse and Jockey Hotel,
Homebush, N.S.W E. 8.: No course in
landscape gardening is given at the University
of Sydney. A course is given at the Sydney
Technical College. Suggest that you write to
the Superintendent, Technical Education, Edu-
cation Department, Sydney, for further informa-
tion N.E.S.: Write N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, Sydney, for leaflet “Poisoning
Green Timber with Arsenic Compounds
A.A.D.: The artist’s humorous drawings have
not been published in book form—.J.N.C.
and P.McK.: It will be necessary for you to
seek membership of one of the maritime unions
(Seamen, Cooks or Stewards), as preference
is given to unionists. The prospects are not
bright, as, qt present, there are ample numbers
of fully-qualified seamen available to meet the
requirements of all branches of the Mercantile
Marine. In addition there are numerous per-
sons in Sydney, with an extremely small number
of exceptions, unsuccessfully seeking employ-
ment at sea C.S.: (1) Probably because red
is the only distinct contrasting color to brown
earth and green grass. No other color would
be suitable and wear as well. (2) Cricket ex-
perts consulted had no idea when, how or where
it originated J.G.: Suggest you consult Mr.
Downes, of the Melbourne University Appoint-
ments Board J.E.N.; Write Local Govern-
ment Examination Committees, Local Gov-
ernment Department, Bridge and Phillip streets,
Sydney, for pamphlet containing information in
relation to the issue of certificates of qualifica-
tion as electrical engineer.. . .F.J.W.; Have
been unable to trace meaning of the abo. word
“Gunnegaldra” 1.R.: Write N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department for pamphlet “The Propaga-
tion of Fruit Trees” W.8.D.: Meat ants
may be controlled by pouring i-ounce of a
5 p.c. D.D.T. dust down each opening of the
nest. Further treatments later may be required
as the nest may become reinhabited from other
nests connected to it by underground tunnels,
or by other colonies entering from above
W.J.F.: So far as We can ascertain neither of
the two brothers owned such a mine... .G.F.P.:
Figures were given by J. McEwen, M.H.R., in
the House of Representatives. Suggest that you
write to him p.L.S.: Write Building Mate-
rials Research Section, Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, Highett, Vic
A.J.M.: Agency unknown to us R.G.K.:
Under-Secretary, Department of Agriculture,
Bridge-street, Sydney... .W.D.M.T.: (1) Resi-
dents of Canberra pay income tax. (2) Yes....
G.S.: D.D.T. 5 p.c. dust should be effective
in destroying the ants’ nests. This material
should be applied by dusting down the entrance
holes and immediately adjacent to the entrance,
at the rate of one ounce to every four entrance
holes. The insect pest leaflet dealipg with ant
destruction is out of print, but the “N.S.W.
Agricultural Gazette,” September, 1946, page
480, contains detailed information T.A.Y.:
The Maitland (555 tons), a paddle passenger
steamship, was wrecked near Cape Three Points
between Sydney and Newcastle, May 5, 1898,
in a heavy s.-e. gale. She lost 15 passengers
and 11 crew, the rest being saved by a rope
most gallantly taken ashore and hauled through
heavy breakers J. 8.: N.S.W. schoolteachers
are paid salaries in accordance with, the scales
laid down in the salaries agreement st present
in operation. The salary paid to any particular
teacher, whether stationed in the country or the
metropolitan area, depends on length of service,
classification, efficiency and other conditions,


Notice.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red_ tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO.. Box 4109, 0.P.0., Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of ALFRED
EDWARD HUTTON (commonly known as Ted
Hutton), aged about 75 years, who formerly resided
at Skeleton Creek near Glen Innes, then Dorrigo and
then Jackadgerie, all in N.S.W., please immediately
communicate with D. W. ABBOTT & CO., Solicitors.
Glen Innes, N.S.W.
TO JOHN DENIS MCCARTHY, formerly of South-
and, New Zealand, and later of Bendigo, Victoria,
Australia, farm hand, or any child or remoter issue
of his, or any person claiming through or under any
of them.—Pursuant to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are required to
S. yo y r claim to share in the estate of Annie
McCarthy, late of Seacliff, New Zealand, Widow, De-
ceased, so as to reach the undersigned by the 31st
day of July, 1947, failing which such estate will be
rf disregarding your claim. THE SOLI-
CITOR, Public Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
knowing whereabouts of KATHLEEN
GERHARD, wife of Henry Gerrard, or her son,
Arthur Henry Gerrard, aged 20 years, or daughter
Marjorie Gerrard, aged 23 years, last heard of at 2
nf Street, Strathfieid, in July, 1939, formerly
at 384 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, in 1927
communicate with undersigned. Reward to anyone
advising Mrs. Gerrard’s present whereabouts.—JOHN
gjjj SON & BROWN, Solicitors, Broken
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
ulleiin.
The limitations on Subscriptions to Thb
bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
12 months ~ .. .. £1 4 o
* ii 12 6
8 » •• .. .. 7 0
Concession rates for members of the force
serving outside Australia:—
12 months 15 0
I ;; ;; •; •• « j
By i to o of the force* l n th
Islands—3 months ~ .. £1 ff Q
THT> ■=
%
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become Incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Phllp Trust Co. Ltd- as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, a$ sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong: - Joseph
Mitchell - P. T. W. Black.
Manager—X,. S. Parker. Secretary—E. B. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: BU 5901. B ox 543 ~ G.P.C.. Sydney*
SP ?-*4.
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the fines! features of high-priced
Imported machines at only a traction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
fiwtlr entirely In Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE •
«
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids M Sold Everywhere
H.Rose& Co.. Ptij- Ud,» King Street, Sydney, 1
They’re NEW!
5-YEAR SERIES
SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
now on sale at face value
In denominations of
£1 * £5 * £lO * £5O
The best investment in Australia to-day, these new five-year series Savings
Certificates present an opportunity to make the best use of your savings,
and to make regular investments of absolute security and generous return.
Better than Bank Interest
on Your Savings . . •
Maturing in five years, the new Savings
Certificates pay better than bank inter-
est. Certificates you buy for £l, £5,
£lO, and £5O will increase in value in
the five-year term to £l/3/-, £5/15/-,
£ll/10/-, and £57/10/- respectively.
They are cashable at any time, and the
annual increases in value are free from
taxation.
Absolute Security
oI Investment . . .
Backed by the whole assets of the
Commonwealth, there is no safer
investment than the new Savings Cer-
tificates. Interest rates, for such abso-
lute security, are generous.
How to buy them . . •
They’re easy to buy. You can walk
into any Bank, Savings Bank or Money
Order Post Office, pass your money
over the counter and receive your Cer-
tificates immediately. Everyone can
own £250 worth of Savings Certificates,
regardless of holdings of War Savings
Certificates. •
An URGENT MESSAGE
to holders of
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
ABOUT TO MATURE
Don’t cash them—keep them working
for you! The same generous annual
increases in value applying to the new
five-year Savings Certificates will also
apply to War Savings Certificates when
they mature for a further five years,
provided you do not cash them.
Here’s what to do . . .
1. War Savings Certificates lodged
with your bank for safe keeping.
Just leave them there. The annual
increases in value will continue for
a further five years.
If you have instructed your bank
to redeem the Certificates at matur-
ity, it is in your interests to cancel
that instruction immediately.
2. War Savings Certificates in your
own possession. (
Hold on to them, or, better still,
lodge them with your bank or sav-
ings bank. They will be kept in
safe custody, completely free of
charge. In either case they will
continue to increase in value each
year.
The Best Investment for Everyone To-day—
The NEW 5-yenr Series
SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
55C1.113.27
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
H.L.G.: The daisy hasn’t a chance of “coyly
unfolding” here... .8.T.: Come in with your
awful warning:
How often have you to a friend
Made certain remarks, sincerely said,
And had them changed into a different trend,
Causing confusion and blushing red.
A great misunderstanding then ensues
Which you try so hard to retrieve,
Generally followed by more untruths
Causing anger and both to grieve.
Gradually but surely suspicion creeps in
Blighting a friendship of many years,
Till eventually on each other you try to pin
Charges absurd, causing copious tears.
Bellerive: Long may you float: —
P.K.: “Hope Springs Eternal” should
reach home in one bound H.J.: “Mr. Evans
laughed at the joke, ‘Ha, ha, ha! ’; Mrs. Evans
dropped the panful of eggs on him. ‘Ha, ha!’
went her husband; Mr. E. chortled ‘Ha, ha,
ha! Where did you get that hat, dear?
Ha, ha! ’ ” After reading that in the first para-
graph we tied the jovial bloke down and have
sent him back —“Ha-aattaaa! ”... .C.M.: Which
prize novel have you been reading?
R.F.: Shows promise. Try loosening up
that excellent grammar which makes your char-
acters seem stilted in their dialogue E.R.:
Giving your dog his day here:
The rain and snarling wind outdoors,
Brought Fido in with dripping paws.
The carpet, after he’d been on it,
Inspired this —miy only sonnet.
Great patterns on my Persian Zimm,
His massive footmarks followed him.
My art-piece fit for garbage bin,
Great mental "conflict raged within.
About to give him back to rain,
And hurled him through the window-pane,
I then recalled the finer day,
When Fido showed his better way.
For moving at the crucial sec
’Neath ma-in-law, he’d broke her neck.
R. 0.: Returning with all the speed the
G.P.O. can muster G.K.L.: Now that you
have a typewriter, “you intend to experiment
wtih all kinds of writing.” A worthy initial
discovery would be for you to locate the
spacing lever on your machine and give it a
firm pull to the double-line position. It makes
the copy easier to read and simpler to sub.
—K.F.: Your nostalgic little animal allowed
a brief romp here before he returns to his den:
. ...T.O’R.: “Flannigan’s Pub” failed to get
a license L.T.: You have no sense of metre.
—L.McR.: “The Good Ship Benelong”
couldn’t make p0rt....W.P.: You spoilt your
story with too much padding. Prime it well
and submit again Nobby C.: Story of ‘The
Centre” missed the bull’s-eye Tex: .You ask
US if it is poetry. No, mechanical jigjog....
V.G.: A good Story spoilt by clumsy handling.
It is worth another try P.K.C.: The Bulle-
tin does not commission articles in advance,
but is always pleased to consider outside con-
tributions... .B.M D : Forward the Story and
we will consider it for publication S.M.S.:
“The Brumby of Rogan’s Ridge” has stringhalt.
....R.D.M.: “Thee,” “thou” and “thy” are
out of P> ac ,e ! n^ p P oe ™, addre .^ d a modern
miss....A.G.. Well-wntten article, but no room
here. Try elsewhere L.X.: Reads too much
Jjke a le / al document... .D.McK.: Your story,
“Kelly’s River,” has too many snags at present.
Try dearing and it m f ght s b ee pr^ nt ....
S.G.S.: No dead bull, even if he had been a
great prizewinner, is worth 20 stanzas
J.R.P.: A drunk story must be more than just
a drunk story before it staggers into these pages.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
X.T.: The abo in your drawing is too much
like a negro J.H.R.: Gags not suitable for
illustration... .J.1.M.: If you must put trees in
your pictures make them look like trees
P. 0.: Too small for reproduction. Try again.
R.N.: What shall we do with your drunken
sailors?... .R.0.R.: Faint lines on tinted paper
useless. Gags might be used... .G.S.: Lady
w itli large family should have received more
sympathetic treatment X.L.: Carelessly
done. The sulky has one wheel; the horse one
ear....F.P.: Small boys in your work look
like characters from a Mark Twain story....
V.V.: Not suitable for this paper,
SURVIVORS OF A TORPEDOED REFUGEE SHIP:
GRIM EPISODE OF NUMBER 2 WORLD’S WAR.
Adrift on a raft
For eight awful days.
Splashed by the froth
Of the tossing sprays.
Away out where the
Weltering billows roar
Hunger and thirst
They suffered and bore.
Drifting along between
The sea and sky.
With fervent trust in
The Almighty on high.
Grim sleepless nights
Of horror they braved,
When by a ship from
Death they were saved.
There was a young man of Aloaster;
His wife, he decided to toast her,
But when, with a squawk.
She slipped from the fork,
He bunged her in oven to roast her.
POLECAT.
Parva sed potentissima
(Small, but high octane).
“Nobody loves me” is bawled in braes,
Confined to most folks’ childhood days
But yours to carry through a life.
Where people cut you like a knife.
Is it your fault that you have power
To make us sway like Pisa’s tower?
Can you be blamed for nasal jolts
That hit us like 240 volts?
I think not, poor unhappy feline,
That sends us homeward on a beeline—
But what is that, by yonder stump.
Its back arched in an angry hump?
A pole-cat? Ah. Here, gentle crawley,
I am your Boswell (cough)—no Macaulay!


ROYALEASTER SHOW
29TH MARCH TO 9TH APRIL 1947
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
AND
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION
Saturday, March 29, to Wednesday, April 9.


Chicken Dinner
By J.B.Blair
LUNCH was in progress in the Noyse,
household, and the Noyse family,
good trenchermen all, were attack
ing with varying degrees of gusto
a meal of pork sausages.
Mrs. Noyse, blonde and petite, was
giving one of those exhibitions of ambi-
dextrous feeding that are a commonplace
in any home that contains a baby who
has attained the dignity of a high-chair
but still has enough native commonsense
to pretend that he is unable to feed him-
self. Richard, the 15-month occupant of
the high-chair, was opening and shutting
his mouth with the regularity of a young
magpie being fed worms. If occasion-
ally the portion of mashed vegetable that
was rightly his went into Mrs. Noyse’s
mouth or a forkful of sausage intended
for her found itself among his five teeth,
both mother and son seemed willing to
take it as one of the risks inesparable
from two-handed feeding.
The other children were attacking their
sausages in accordance with their in-
dividual characteristics.
pATRICIA, aged nine, was industri-
-1 ously dissecting hers —separating the
meat, or whatever it is that composes the
bulk of a sausage, from the tough, teeth-
resistant skin that, since war gave excuse
for the imposition, has formed the outer
integument of the species.
By way of contrast, Tony, the four-
year-old glutton of the house, whose meal
had been cut up beforehand for him,
was scoffing skins and all. It mattered not
to Tony whether the skins were chewable
dr not; he didn’t waste time trying, but
swallowed the lot, trusting to his amazing
digestion. Already his plate was three
parts empty and his eyes were fixed on
the sideboard, where stood a dish of
stewed fruit and a bowl of custard.
Opposite him sat David, who at seven
was recognised as the thinker of the.
family. His sausage had been pushed
to one side of his plate, after being
liberally decorated with tomato sauce, and
he was methodically making his way
through his vegetables. First the carrot
had been disposed of and he was now
doing battle with the beans. After that he
would demolish the potato. Not till then
would he consider his stomach sufficiently
well-lined to receive that prince of foods
the sausage. Sausages were David’s
favorite dish.
Mr. Noyse’s chair was empty. As be-
fitted the father of four, he was in the
city doing a spot of bread-winning.
Patricia paused a moment in her work
of dissection to impart a little infor-
mation.
“The Quinneys are having turkey for
Christmas dinner.”
“Who told you, dear?” asked Mrs.
Noyse.
“Shirley. They’re getting one from
their auntie at Camden. She’s sending it
down to them.”
Tony’s spoon halted in mid-passage to
his mouth.
“Luck - ee!” he cried. “Turkey!
Mummy, can we have turkey, too?”
“No, dear,” said Mrs. Noyse. “Not a
turkey. But we’ll have a chook. That’s
just as good.”
“Not as big,” protested Tony.
“There’ll be plenty enough for all of
us,” laughed his mother.
“Are you sure? Really, truly sure?”
“Yes, I’m sure.”
“Luck-ee!” rejoiced the anxious one,
and, his fears of Christmas starvation
allayed, he resumed his onslaught on the
meal in hand.
Thdn David delivered his ultimatum.
“|’M not going to eat any chicken for
* Christmas,” he announced.
Patricia stared at him in amazement,
Tony with incredulity, Mrs. Noyse,
absorbed in steering a spoon towards the
baby’s open mouth, ignored the remark.
“But you like chicken. You told me
once it was your very favorite.” This
from Patricia.
Tony said nothing, but continued to
stare at his brother as though he
had uttered some horrible
phemy,
Mrs. Noyse entered the discus-
sion.
“Why aren’t you going to eat any
chicken, David?” she asked.
David looked at his plate.
“I don’t like eating things that’ve been
running around,” he faltered.
“What!”
“Chickens run around. It isn’t fair to
eat them.”
“But you’ve eaten them before.”
“Yes, but I didn’t know they ran
around. I thought they came out of tins.”
“Nonsense!” said his mother. “Why,
you’re eating sausages now.”
“Sausages!” scoffed David with a de-
risive laugh. “Whoever heard of a
sausage running around!”
The suggestion appealed to the sense
of humor of Patricia and Tony.
“Sausages run-
ning around. Silly
old sausages
running around,”
chanted Tony.
Patricia rocked
with laughter and
the baby, who
had been lean-
ing over his
high-chair, dropping pieces of bread to
the floor and watching their fall with the
scientific interest of a Galileo dropping
weights from the Leaning Tower of Pisa,
ceased his experiments and crowed with
merriment.
When Mr. Noyse came home he was
duly apprised of his son’s outbreak of
eclectic vegetarianism, but was not in-
clined to take it seriously.
“Perhaps I had better cancel the
chook,” suggested his wife.
“Cancel nothing,” - said Mr. Noyse.
After a day in the city he felt himself
quite competent to deal with delicate
matters of child psychology. Mrs. Noyse,
after a day with the children, was not so
sure.
DESPITE his confidence, when Christ-
mas Day arrived and Mr. Noyse
sat down to carve the chicken he gave
David an anxious glance. The blue eyes
were fixed unflinchingly upon him but
there was no plumbing their depths.
Mr. Noyse thought it best to play safe,
so instead of giving his eldest son a wing
or a drumstick, which might have been
taken as a direct challenge, he put some
tender slices of breast on David’s plate.
David made no protest, although he
looked disdainfully at Tony, who was
chortling triumphantly, “I got the leg.
Whacko for me. I got the leg.”
Mr. Noyse was a great believer in the
traditional Christmas and he felt impelled
to introduce a Dickensian flavor into the
feast by proposing a toast. From some-
where he had secured a bottle of light
wine, which he now proceeded to open
with due ceremony while bis spouse was
doing the honors with the vegetables and
trimmings. Tiny gl’asses had been pro-
vided for the children, to allow them to
honor the toast in thimble-sized libations.
Mr. Noyse rose to his feet, glass in
hand.
“I give you,” he said, “Christmas. A
Happy Christmas to all the world.”
“Happy Christmas to all the world,”
chorused the family.
Glasses were replaced on the table and
knives and forks picked up.
“Please can I start?” yelled Tony, his
mouth already full.
David, fork in hand, regarded his plate.
. “It’s a Happy Christmas, all right,” he
said reprovingly, “for everyone except
this chicken.”
“Don’t talk nonsense,” said his mother.
“Eat your dinner like a sensible boy.”
David centred his attack on his sister,
who appeared to be enjoying the feast
free from any idealistic qualms.
“I’m surprised at you ! ” he said “eating
a poor chicken that was running around
yesterday.”
He considered a moment and added,
“Or the day before.”
PATRICIA hesitated in the act of
stabbing a piece of chicken with her
fork. Seizing his advantage, the food
reformer pressed on.
“How would you like to be eaten?
How would you like to have your leg on
someone’s plate?”
Patricia shuddered a little at the pros-
pect.
“David! Get on with your dinner,”
ordered Mrs. Noyse.
. “I’ll eat the peas,” said David, “and
the potatoes. And I’ll eat the pumpkin.”
This last was a genuine concession, as
he didn’t like pumpkin.
David’s fork made three trips from plate
to mouth, each time with a single pea im-
paled on its prongs. Then he resumed
his attack, this time addressing no one in
particular, but merely musing aloud.
“Fancy eating chicken. Fancy eating
something that’s been running around.”
Patricia was showing signs of distress.
“I feel a bit sick,” she complained.
“No wonder,” said the relentless David,
“after all the chicken you’ve eaten. I’d
be sick if I ate just a tiny bit. Just one
mouthful. That’d be enough to make me
sick.”
“It wouldn’t be enough to make me
sick,” boasted Tony. “I could eat seven-
teen chickens and not be sick.”
As if to prove it he picked up the drum-
stick and sank his teeth into it.
“Oh, you!” said David in deep con-
tempt. “Nothing makes you sick. You
don’t care if the poor chicken’s been
running around or not. You don’t care,”
MR. NOYSE decided it was time to
take a hand. The interlude had no
part in the Christmas dinner he had
planned. He had pictured his first Christ-
mas dinner with his family after years
in the Army as something with a jovial
flavor happy faces, healthy appetites,
himself as founder of the feast beaming
upon all and the whole atmosphere one
of charity and goodwill to all.
But, unlike his eldest son, he saw no
reason to include the chicken in the
charity and goodwill. It was a
welcome and necessary part of the day’s
celebrations, but its part was to be en-
tirely passive. It was there to be eaten,
enjoyed. For that purpose it had been
sent into the world and he saw no reason
why, its destiny achieved, it should,
through the misplaced humanitarianism
of his son, be permitted to come back
from the shades to spoil the feast it was
meant to adorn.
He looked around the table. Patricia’s
face was almost white. Tears were be-
ginning to trickle down Tony’s cheeks,
Mrs. Noyse was trying to persuade the
baby to open his usually eager mouth
to receive a spoonful of food, but the
infant, dimly sensing the atmosphere, was
stubbornly averting his head,
Mr. Noyse tried tough measures.
“David,” he said sternly, “eat your
chicken.”
The serene countenance clouded.
“But, Daddy, I can’t.”
The child’s face was really troubled.
There were tears in his eyes now. In
contrast, Tony’s eyes, lately tear-filled,
were shining with sadistic pleasure at
his brother’s discomfiture.
“Nonsense,” said Mr. Noyse. “Why
can’t you?”
There was no doubt about the strength
of David’s convictions. But it was be-
yond the compass of the seven-year-old’s
experience to express his feelings in
words. The best he could do was to
repeat falteringly “It’s been running
around.”
At this there was a choking gulp
from Patricia. She thrust her chair back
and rushed from the room.
Mrs. Noyse hastened out to render
first aid and consolation,
MR. NOYSE decided to try reasoning
with David, so he took up the boy’s
last remark.
“Yes, it’s been running around all
right, but that’s no reason why we
shouldn’t eat it. That’s what it was
hatched for. Why, it probably didn’t
even have a proper mother. You’ve
seen incubators?”
“Yes, Georgie Thompson’s father’s got
one.”
“That’s right. Well, that chicken was
hatched in an incubator and fattened-up
specially for Christmas.”
David shuddered.
“The poultryman knew before he even
put the egg in the incubator that some-
one would want it for Christmas.”
“But the chicken didn’t know.”
“That’s just the point. It didn’t know.
So it had nothing to Worry about. It had
a happy life, well-fed and looked after.
As to running around, well, if it hadn’t
been that we pr someone else intended to
have it for Christmas, it would never
have had the chance to run around. It
would never have been hatched. At
least we gave it a few months of running
around. If you look at it that way the
chicken had us to thank that it was ever
able to run around at all.”
Mr. Noyse felt quite proud of his im-
promptu defence of the ancient custom
of chicken eating.' He had almost con-
vinced himself that he was doing the
chicken a favor by eating it. But David
was unconvinced.
“When did Mummy order this
chicken?”
Mr. Noyse fell
into the trap.
“About a fort-
night ago.”
“Well, there you
are,” triumphed
his son. “You said
it was hatched
months ago. How
did the man know
Mummy was go-
ing to buy it when
he put the egg in the incubator?”
“He knew someone would.”
“But h'ow could he? He couldn’t know
for sure, could he?”
“Well, not quite for sure, but he
would be pretty safe in reckoning that
someone would want it.”
“It seems to me,” said David judicially,
“that if Mummy hadn’t ordered this
chicken it’d still be running around.”
Mr. Noyse cast sweet reasonableness
aside.
“You eat that chicken!” he roared.
“But I can’t.”
“Eat it!”
David burst into tears. Mr, Noyse,
feeling a little ashamed at his outburst
and more than a little sad at the way
the Christmas dinner was turning out,
stared glumly at his plate,
Mrs. Noyse and Patricia returned to
the feast. Mrs. Noyse took Patricia’s
plate to the kitchen and looked at her
own with a slight appearance of dis-
taste. Patricia picked up the baby’s
spoon from the floor and commenced
feeding him.
“Mummy, I can’t eat it. I can’t,”
sobbed David.
“Take it out to the kitchen, then.”
David looked doubtfully at his father,
as if expecting a countermanding order.
None came, so he gratefully removed his
plate. Mr. Noyse was disdainfully pok-
ing at his chicken with a fork.
“Running around for a few months! ”
he said scornfully. “This bird’s been
running around for years, if you ask
me.”
HAVING more or less restored his
good humor by this witticism he
thrust his plate aside and almost smiled
at David.
(Continued on page 32.)
A Woman.
A little lyric gift I had
To make a song when I was sad,
So that the tears I might have shed
Were frozen into words instead,
And I would make my crown of them.
Each poem polished like a gem.
Tears are forgotten with their cures.
The diamond or the word endures.
Poor am 1 now that have not power
To weep as woman in my hour,
And even if somewhere secretly
A stranger finds my tears for me.
Taking into warm heart the shy
Cold words, and being pierced thereby—
/ think of bitter comedies
And doubtful immortalities.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


F °r 58 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
seeurity for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies
for their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and
other possessions, which saved them from ruin
when the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land,
and with that security they were able to
maintain that independence so dear to the heart
of Australia’s sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus
outlined forms a material part of our National
life, and provides employment for thousands of
people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car,
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius.
All classes of Agricultural Insurance.
SK: 117 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
m
■
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all “MARS
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
from a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Piy. Ltd.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & 00. Pty-,
Ltd. VICTORIA—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick,
Melbourne. Q’LAND —Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—“-Ross Neil & Sons, Ohowringhee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd.. Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
w
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q’LAND OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
TOBACCO TOBACCO
HE IS BACK
Our postman has been away but is
now back again on active service to
cater for our Tobacco Postal Service
to smokers direct.
We have only available at present
until Tobacco stabilizes itself:
"WINSTONS SPECIAL” PIPE MIXTURE
24/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
"B.S.A. STRONG” PIPE MIXTURE.
20/- lb., in lb. parcels only, plus postage.
Send cash with orders. Send direct to
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
IMMIGRANTS FOR BRITAIN.
When a London “Times” leader headed
“An Essential Import” turns out to be
an argument in favor of increased immi-
gration into Britain, any hope in Aus-
tralia of building up population with un-
limited British migrants seems to be
largely wishful thinking, despite all the
recent fanfare about “the assisted-migra-
tion scheme arranged between the United
Kingdom and Australia.”
Here the idea of Britain as not only
the best but a more than abundant source
for filling Australia’s needs in that line
has been so long taken for granted that
the opposite idea of Britain itself looking
for immigrants seems fantastic. Yet this
position is freely accepted in Britain, and
the need urged on all sides, with some
rather curious angles.
The “Times” leader referred to de-
clared that “a controlled influx of
foreigners” into Britain “is to be wel-
’ corned, even eagerly.” The coal and
cotton industries and. other trades and
services are suffering labor shortages
“serious enough to jeopardise economic
recovery” and “agriculture is making ends
meet only by the use of 140,000 German
prisoners who must shortly be replaced.”
The population of Britain has almost
ceased to expand, and the number of boys
and girls between the ages of fifteen and
nineteen, already far smaller than 20 years
ago, will continue to shrink for perhaps
10 years more, while the number of adults
under 30 will dwindle for at least the next
15 years. Without the aid of suitable
immigrants, a serious deficiency of mobile
and adaptable workers cannot be avoided
for many years to come.
One source on hand the “Times” looks
to is “the 140,000 eligible Poles” in
Britain, a large proportion of them under
30. These Poles —the British Government
figure for them is 127,000 —are being
looked after by a special Act of Parlia-
ment, the Polish Resettlement Bill, one
feature of which is a Polish Resettlement
Corps (not to be confused as meaning any
resettlement of them in Poland). Of the
Poles already asked to decide, 65,400
opted for that Resettlement Corps,
against 19,600 who opted for repatriation
or emigration. It was this which led to
the Polish “Government’s” Notes of pro-
test to Britain —not that that “Govern-
ment” is likely to be taken any more
seriously in Britain than in the U.S.
What number of the Poles wanted to
go back to their own country was not
stated by Home Secretary Ede in usher-
ing the Bill through the Commons, but
the number is certain to be very small.
Some of those wanting to migrate no
doubt have Australia in mind. Against
those who won’t make up their minds
what they want to do the British Govern-
ment is taking firm action to bring them
into line one way or the other.
One thing Mr. Ede said about them
was greeted by the House with cheers:
“The Government,” he declared, “had
given a pledge that no Pole would be
forced to return to Poland against his
will.” This, of course, did not suit Com-
munist member Gallacher, Poland being
now wholly Communist-controlled, under
Soviet domination.
Mr. Boyd-Carpenter asked if Mr. Gal-
lacher was prepared to compel those Poles
who did not wish to go back to go back
against their will.
Mr. Gallacher said he was prepared to
use all power and authority to put these
men back into their own country.
Mr. Boyd-Carpenter said it was a shame-
ful thing for an hon. member to say he
would compel the men who had fought
magnificently in the shambles of Cassino to
go back unless they were willing.
To that the Communist had no reply,
and apart from him the House as a
whole applauded the Bill. The Poles in
question were, of course, every bit the
magnificent soldiers Mr. Boyd-Carpenter
described them (at Alamein, Tobruk and
elsewhere besides Cassino), and some of
them will no doubt soldier on now as
British troops. In regard to this, Mr.
Ede told the House that for centuries
Britain had objected very strongly to
foreign nationals in any number being
in its armed forces, and the present limi-
tation was not more than one alien to
every 50 soldiers. This limit, he said,
was being altered in favor of the Poles.
Incidentally, Mr. Ede also informed the
House that no alien in the British Army
could hold higher rank than that of a
warrant officer, and, remembering when
he’d been a sarnmajor himself, he rocked
the House by suggesting in favor of the
Poles as recruits that “A sergeant-major
with a command of several languages
would be an asset to any unit.”
While the Polish Bill was going through
the Commons the British-held German
p.-0.-w. were being discussed in the House
of Lords, where the Earl of Perth sug-
gested that, in view of Britain’s, need for
immigrants, the German prisoners should
be allowed to remain in Britain “and
bring their womenfolk.” Lord Strabolgi
suggested that they should be allowed to
stay as farm workers and be paid union
rates. “Many farmers,” he said, “are
well satisfied with their work and would
be willing to keep them.”
The “Times,” in its “Essential Import”
—N.Y. “Daily Mirror.
IN THE DITCH.
leader, suggested bringing into Britain
“Baltic or other displaced persons or in-
viting suitable German prisoners to re-
main as free men.” Sir Frederick
Morgan, former head of U.N.R.R.A.’s
displaced persons bureau, urged that the
entire 250,000 displaced persons in the
British zone in Germany should all be
transferred to Britain. As a further indi-
cation of Britain’s need under this head,
the 10,000 refugee children taken into
Britain before the war are being allowed
to become British citizens before reach-
ing the age of 21.
Also, among other press and platform
advocacy of one solution, the “York-
shire Post” has recently urged that “large
forces now being maintained abroad will
have to be reduced to provide more
manpower for industry at home.” The
NY. “Times” London correspondent de-
scribed this as a “typically British under-
statement,” adding: “The true situation
is, of course, not simply that Britain
‘may’ be forced to reduce some of her
commitments, but that it has been for
some time and is being obliged to reduce
many of its international commitments
and to withdraw from strategic positions
hitherto held vital to the existence of the
Empire.” As shown in the army esti-
mates published on March 3, Britain’s
European garrisons have already been
reduced from 1,328,000 last year to a
present 702,000 and garrisons outside
Europe from 943,000 to 469,000. Britain’s
total army strength has been more than
halved over the same period. The feel-
ing, however,. is that this is not yet
enough, unless the manpower shortage
can be made up in other ways, such as
bringing in considerable manpower addi-
tions from outside.
Altogether, there is certainly no ground
for optimism about any large-scale Aus-
tralian British-immigration in this extra-
ordinary set-up, particularly as all the
other Dominions are also bidding hard
for such immigrants as manpower-short
Britain can spare. Canada, for one, in its
objective of 12,000,000 immigrants, is
bidding high.
SPAIN: RUMOR, FACT.
From Berne, Switzerland, the N.Y.
“Times” special correspondent C. L.
Sulzberger has reported what can be
taken as a fair average sampling of
rumors about Spain cur-
rent in Europe —and, of
course, elsewhere as well.
Among other things,
according to Sulzberger,
“the economic crisis there
is increasingly serious,”
causing “increasing grum-
bling among the people,
many of whom see the
Falange as the root of
their troubles.” In con-
trast to such sections of
the people, “there is the
privileged class of wealthy
landowners and profiteers
who made huge sums trad-
ing with the Germans.”
Also, “it is generally
agreed that the black-
market is supplied chiefly
through Army officers and
Falange officials who
manage deals through
economatos that supply
food and clothing at cut
rates to the ‘right’ people.”
Sulzberger further re-
ports :
There is said to be a
growing belief among
Spaniards that important
Army leaders are coming
to the conclusion that they
must help oust General-
issimo Franco to avoid
possible chaos later and to
try to save their own
necks. Gen. Aranda is
popularly associated with
such sentiments, it is said.
Furthermore, reports have
been received here that the
captains-general of the
three military districts bor-
dering Portugal have secretly agreed to aid
Don Juan. , „. . '
It is stated, too, that the British are
aware of these developments but have
taken no part in fostering them.
Similarly, even three months back a
“Christian Science Monitor” special
correspondent was noting “a change in
the political atmosphere of Spain”: “The
breathing spell which Franco received
when national hostility to ‘foreign inter-
ference’ greeted the United Nations reso-
lution renouncing the Franco regime has
been even shorter than had been antici-
pated.”
All this and much else of the kind con-
trasts considerably with the report on
Spain written after a visit to that country
by E. Allison Peers for London “Fort-
nightly.” Till civil and other wars began
interfering, Peers had spent from three
to four months a year in Spain for 20
years. On his latest visit he reported
finding it somewhat different from what
rumor had made out. Regarding the
political situa^on: —
There are two well-developed under-
ground currents of activity, bubbles from
which appear every now and then on
Spain’s placid surface: one of these aims
at restoring the Monarchy; the other, at
bringing in a Third Republic. Neither
appears to have the support of any large
proportion of the people, though, for
psychological reasons, a majority would
no doubt rapidly attach itself to either
could it stage a successful pronunciamento.
While political matters were openly discussed,
the general reaction to such discussion was
sluggish and, as at home, every conversation
soon came round to food problems. Deeply
divided in their political opinions though
Spaniards are, all but an insignificant
minority appear to be agreed that no risk
must be run of another Civil War. Changes
within the next year or two are certain,
but they are likely to be evolutionary
rather than revolutionary—and that means
they will be slow. For my own part, I
should doubt if less than a decade will
suffice to complete them.
Transport was one of the visitor’s
worst troubles: “conditions of travel
much worse than in Britain even at the
height of the war.” Not only are trains,
trams and buses always incredibly full,
but, because of the shortage of rolling-
stock, many trains run only three times
weekly, tickets are issued in advance to
as many people as can be packed into
the trains, and, even after his experience
of queues in Britain, 'he found those
lined up to travel in Spain quite “fan-
tastic.”
The food situation, for residents of
Spain, he found ranged from “unsatis-
factory to serious”; “nobody speaks well
of it, though there is little evidence of
anything approaching starvation.” As a
visitor, however, he found that
he put up at the cheaper kinds —showed
few signs of food shortage, while
“standards of cleanliness and neatness in
hotels, pensions and restaurants were
higher” than he had known them “in an
experience going back 30 years.”
Prices, he found, “are not prohibitive,”
as had been rumored, and “many com-
modities are cheaper and more plentiful
than food —notably clothes.” For the
price of his last British-made suit he
could have bought two made-to-measure
suits and an overcoat, all of similar
quality. Boots and shoes were not only
less than half the British price, but in-
finitely more plentiful.
“Next to reports of high prices,” the
writer says, “the tales which have kept
the greatest number of intending visitors
away from Spain have had to do with an
alleged interference with one’s liberty.”
On his own experience, he declares that
such rumors “have today no sort of justi-
fication whatever.” Even “the trouble-
some pre - Franco regulation which
obliged all foreigners to present their
passports personally at police stations has
mercifully been abolished.” Also, re-
garding personal liberties:
I have seen circulars of a republican
organisation, in tuck-in envelopes bearing
the rubber stamp of that organisation, de-
livered by the post. Political discussions
can be heard in trains, tram-cars and
cafes. There are no posters (as under
certain earlier regimes) warning one to
guard one’s tongue. There is no censor-
ship of letters.
And the British visitor winds up with
(in view of the general line of rumors)
this astonishing finding:
Taken all round Spain is as ideal a
country for the holiday-maker who appre-
ciates good food, magnificent scenery and
an unrivalled culture as at any time in the
past. The material wounds made by the
Civil War have nearly all disappeared:
only here and there do the mutilated win-
dows of Toledo Cathedral and the shat-
tered buildings at Alcala remind us that
a few things have been lost which are
irreplaceable. The new towns, garden
cities and model villages which stand where
once was desert or slum, the new Univer-
sity City at Madrid which has risen from
the ruins of the old, are reminders, in
brick and stone, of a fact, too little realised,


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders,’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
V
<*»
2
<
Z
O
BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS *
®aii
*
■p
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL RANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
>u
5033 N IVNOSB3d BOd A3NOW SON 31 BN V 8 IVBnß*>
blotchy'
cllff r> SKIN
'g marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health.' Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder... 533
which alone makes present-day Spain so
well worth visiting—the energy, vitality and
forward-looking spirit of its people.
It makes an extraordinary contrast to
the general idea of Spain today; but,
then, that idea is mostly fostered by
people outside Spain who have never
been there.
A fair summing-up would seem to be
that, while Spain has its shortages and
similar domestic troubles, it is no worse
off in that respect than any other of
Europe’s countries, and better off than
most of them. Certainly there would
seem to be no threat to Franco from
such causes, whatever else may be acting
against him.
Incidentally, a sidelight on Britain’s
present attitude towards the country was
recently given in the House of Com-
mons when the Cambridge University
Independent member Mr. Wilson Hams
asked why the Palestine question should
not go to the Security Council (instead of
the General Assembly of U.N.0.) “as a
matter endangering international peace,”
and added “It certainly does that much
more than the Spanish situation, of which
the Security Council took cognizance.”
To which Mr. Bevin replied: “I am
aware that Spain and other things went
to the Security Council, but it was rather
a new toy that year.”
“BUSINESS STINKS.”
Nothing if not frank, a Newark, N.J.,
dealer in “waxes, steel wool, sponges and
similar cleaning equipment” has, the
“Wall-street Journal” reports, held a
“Business Stinks” sale. But, going by
the sariie publication, the spirit of this
particular dealer isn’t confined to Newark
nor to cleaning equipment. The
“Journal” has, in fact, been running
feature articles on widespread falls in
prices in the U.S ever since the turn of
the year.
One of these articles opened; “Com-
modity prices crumbled ‘all over the
place’ again this week. Down went but-
ter. Down went wheat and corn and
cotton and hides. Chickens fell off the
roost —taking the egg-basket with them
Milk fell, too. Fresh vegetables pourinj
into produce markets brought less mone;
as nervous buyers backed away.”
Behind “this slump in commodity price
the “Journal” saw “one solid fact: stone
wall consumer resistance”:
It starts with the man on the street. It
starts with the housewife. Both have been
pounding retailers with it for months.
Now the retailers are pounding the whole-
salers. And the wholesalers are “throwing
it in the teeth” of the manufacturers.
The manufacturers, in turn, are through
necessity baulking at the high cost of raw
materials they need.
Hand-to-mouth buying is prevailing at all
levels. Each level is afraid of “getting
caught.” Each believes it can “get it
cheaper tomorrow.”
Butter is an example. Housewives won’t
buy an ounce more than they need ' from
day to day. They, too, read the papers.
They see the trend. They sit tight. And
far up the butter ladder where the bread
spread changes hands in thousands! of
pounds, the market is called “demoralised.”
Used cars, “Wall-street Journal” says,
have also been on the price skids: “Re-
ductions vary from city to city, but
everywhere they are pronounced.” As
for new cars, the “Journal of Commerce”
expects that, despite “consumer resistance
in other fields,” the “backing of demand
for automobiles remains so great that
every car turned out by the manufac-
turers will be quickly absorbed by the
market.” Against that, however, there is
the big cut in new car prices voluntarily
made by the younger Henry Ford, not-
withstanding orders already on the books
for more than a million new cars. On
this highly unorthodox Ford action,
taken, it was explained, as a move to-
wards reversing the “insane spiral of
prices,” N.Y. “Herald Tribune” com-
mented :
By passing on a part of his profits to the
consumer, Mr. Ford makes it harder for
his workers to argue that the capitalist is
getting more than his share. This is im-
portant because public opinion has also
come into the economic equation. Of
course the automobile workers do not
benefit from the lower prices of Ford cars
except as members of the consuming public.
But they would benefit if other entrepre-
neurs followed Mr. Ford’s lead. Our
country is in a situation where it rs
generally believed that supply is going to
catch up with and surpass demand in most
or all fields, and that prices will then drop.
The higher they rise, it is felt, the harder
will they fall.
As “World Report” sees the trend, “the
boom that’s been so exciting since war
ended is due to be punctured sometime
in the months just ahead. Prices will
then drop, jobs become scarcer, goods
will pour on to shelves, building will
slacken as an inflated economy deflates.”
Among the many reported to be cutting
already are picture theatres, “Wall-
street Journal” reporting near the end of
February “the first crack in moving pic-
ture theatre admission prices.”
Retail liquor stores also see stormy
weather ahead: “A price-conscious public
not only is paring its total purchases but
is down-grading its liquor taste. Ex-
pensive whiskies are becoming difficult to
—Washington “Post.”
NERVOUS CATS.
sell.” Because, says the “Wall-street
Journal,” competition has come into its
own, “some stores in New York City and
elsewhere have been advertising ‘clearance
sales’; other stores are quietly giving good
customers discounts of 10 p.c. to 30 p.c.”
One war-time dodge in liquor—’not
confined to America—that isn’t working
any more is what Americans call the
“tie-in” sale, by which the buyer had to
take a certain amount of rum and other
less popular liquor if he wanted to get
any of the more fancied stuff. “That
day is over. The customer is baulking;
and so are some retail dealers.” In other
fields, too, the American picture as
painted in the “Wall-street Journal”
articles is strikingly different from what
Australia knows:
For six years—of preparation for war,
war itself, and recovery from war —busi-
ness firms have been able to make and sell
almost anything at almost any price, with
conscience and Government rules as the
only guides. That day is done.
Emphasis will shift from production-at-
any-cost to production-at-lowest-cost. But
unit production costs will hang so heavily
on keeping putput high that top industrial
executives will spend more time with their
sales chiefs than with their production
chiefs. Purchasing agents will weigh one
material carefully against another, not only
to gauge quality but to pinch a penny here
and there from production costs. Advertis-
ing copy-writers will brighten their copy
with new ideas to push their products.
Distribution engineers will seek to trim the
margin between the manufacturer’s price
and the retail price.
For the consumer, 1947 will bring the
first cheer since before the war.
Indicating the trend in 'another way,
the “Wall-street Journal” gave one
article to warning buyers coming to New
York: “You are entering over-friendly
territory!” The city’s manufacturers,
vendors and company representatives, the
“Journal” declared, “could hardly wait
to greet the buyers, who are engulfed
by a wave of super-cordiality.”
Symbolic to buyers with long memories
is the return of the gift pencil—the kind
with soft lead, good for writing on order
slips. _ These instruments, bearing their
donor’s name, product, ’phone number and
address, somehow vanished during the war.
They are back. Six buyers returning from
seven visits “in the market” together
counted pencils. It turned out they had 303
of them in their bags, ranging from plain
wooden ones to automatic ones cast in
silver (clips for men, chains for ladies).
Every woman buyer, “Wall-street
Journal” adds, is “assured she is as beauti-
ful as ever, looks younger than a year
ago and is still the best-dressed woman
in the business. Men buyers are hand-
pumped vigorously and slapped on the
back with college-mate enthusiasm.”
Altogether, the lavish hospitality extended
by those with anything to sell is on a
scale that “has been unknown since
1941.”
Other sources also report both the
decline in many prices and the “buyer
resistance.” N.Y. “Times” reports the
executive manager of the National
Assqciation of Credit Men, Henry H.
Heimann, as insisting that “the time has
come to realise that the sellers’ market
of the war years is fast vanishing.” He
added: “I believe also the bad ethics and
measures of dishonesty in some busi-
nesses and labor movements will be cor-
rected.” Also, stating that “retailers
warn of mounting consumer resistance to
higher prices and poor quality” and re-
porting the National Retail Drygoods
Association as “providing telling evidence
that the public’s unwillingness to pay
current prices is spreading,” the “Journal
of Commerce” comments;
It is no longer possible to counter con-
sumer unwillingness to buy by lowering
quality, as was done in many instances
during the war. Retailers report that con-
sumers are ever more quality- and price-
conscious, after having seen quality de-
teriorate persistently during the war years.'
Cheapening the quality of goods now, there-
fore, would only serve to precipitate a
buyers’ strike all the faster in most cases.
American prices, of course, like those
elsewhere, are still very high compared
to pre-war, but, going on these and many
other such reports in the U.S. press, the
Newark, N.J., dealer will find a good
many others using his sale sign before
the year is out. And in the “Wall-street
Journal” view “One of 1947’s biggest
price ‘busts’ may well be in foods. Cheaper
eating prospects grow brighter day by
day.”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
High Cost of Revolution. —“The price in
human life Which Russia paid for her revolution
of 30 years ago,” states the “Topics” column
of N.Y. “Times,” “would seem to be one-and-
a-half times as great as the price exacted by
her war of defence against Hitler.” The con-
clusion is based on an exhaustive study of
Soviet population made by Frank Lorimer
under Princeton University guidance. Counting
in “birth deficit” (the children who would have
been born under peace conditions), the huge
revolution cost and the losses in the two wars,
Russia is estimated to have lost something like
50 million lives (outside normal deaths) in the
past 30 years. The population which should
have normally been 175,000,000 in 1926 was
less than 170,000,000 in 1946. Still, barring
more war—or more revolution —it is estimated
that by 1970 the Soviet population will be above
222,000,000. Same old fantastic “estimate”!
* * * *
"Australian Offer to Jews.” —N.Y. “Herald-
Tribune,” which appears to have special sources
of information among terrorist and other Jewish
quarters in Europe, publishes a report from
Paris that “British officials at detention camps
in Cyprus are offering interned Jewish refugees
there visas and transportation to Australia and
other parts of the British Empire if they will
agree to call off their attempts to enter
Palestine.” Crediting the statement to an officer
of Haganah, “the illegal Palestine defence
force,” the report stated that the offer “was
made officially by the internment camp com-
mander.” No such offer could, of course, be
made without Australian Government sanction.
* * ♦
Boom in Whaling. —With fleets of six nations
taking part, whaling this season is expected to
double last year’s catch. By international agree-
ment, the season’s catch is limited to 16i,000
whales and 1,600,000 barrels of oil. “World
Report” puts the Norwegians ahead in the
hunt, with seven floating factories and 63
whaling-boats in operation. Japs, whaling by
MacArthur’s permission, are using converted
tankers to process the whales, all the six Jap
whaling factories haying been destroyed during
the war. One of the main Jap aims is whale
meat to lighten the burden of America’s occu-
pation feeding bill. Britain has out four float-
ing factories and 48 whaling-boats. It, also,
is taking a large amount of whale meat, some
of it to be sent to the British zone in Ger-
many, where, to add to the mystery of such
things, all sausages made must contain at least
10 per cent, of whale meat.
* * * *
Splitting U.S, and Britain. Russian
manoeuvres in world affairs, which have been
“a puzzle ’and a mystery,” are seen by David
Lawrence in N.Y. “Sun” as “now becoming
amazingly transparent,” the Russian attempt
being “rather clumsily to drive a wedge between
the British and American people.” Quoting
a broadcast by the official Russian news agency,
which declared that “none can doubt the in-
timate relations [between U.S. and Britain]
which in fact have assumed the character of
a military alliance,” and noting thtft Russian
propaganda “throughout Latin America, as
well as throughout Europe, aims to estrange
the United States from countries with which
America is on the friendliest terms,” Lawrence
commented: “The Russian tactics are deceiving
nobody. The public complaint against the
British that they like America too well is,
however, the biggest blunder the Communists
in Moscow have ever made. It is true that
no treaty of alliance exists between America
and Britain, because one isn’t necessary. It is
also true that the words and phrases of no
treaty between Russia and Great Britain can
be strong enough as to warrant Britain ever
taking the side of Russia if the latter some
day follows in the Hitler path of unprovoked
aggression against peaceful nations Is there
anyone in Russia who seriously thinks a wedge
can be driven between the United States and
Britain? There is no chance of such a develop-
ment.”
* * * *
U.S. on Polish “Elections .”—Comment in
America on the Polish “elections” generally
adds up to pointing out that, while “nothing can
be done to reverse this travesty of a free
ballot,” some lessons should be taken to heart
from it. The main lesson drawn, as stated
by the “Wall-street Journal’s” noted writer on
foreign affairs William Henry Chamberlin, is
that “a rdgirae which has so cynically repudi-
ated repeated pledges to hold free elections is
a distinctly bad risk for American capital,
politically, economically and morally. Until
a genuinely representative Government is estab-
lished in Poland there should be no American
Joans” to that country.


1
Jii
''p-
4ft
'a
*y
//
/
/
/
*
/>
/
*
*A
S
0
S
ft
/
As the only Company of its kind in Australia
with offices and factories in every state of
the Commonwealth, Claude Neon occupies a
position of unquestionable leadership % \n the field of luminous-tube
products for out-door advertising displays and interior Fluorescent
Jghting. The magnitude of Claude enterprises warrants a sub-
stantial year-after-year investment in research and planning . . *
/our guarantee of the best that modern science and engineer-
ing can produce, when you buy Claude products. In addition,
Claude Neon is in continuous direct touch with overseas laboratory
research so as to ensure that every technological advance is made
speedily available to Australian users of luminous-tube products.
Claude Neon Limited


The Bulletin
Vol. 68-—No. 3501
Wedjrie?d»y' > Mar,fh 19, 1947
REINFORCING THE GUARD.
“America is joining Britain in the defence of ‘free peoples’—specifically the Greeks and Tu [?]—threatened by ‘direct or indirect aggression’


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
BREADTH OF VISION.
No one has yet seen any blueprints of
Mr. Chifley’s ground plan for a new
Golden Age. If any were ever prepared
they -must have been drawn in invisible
ink and the paper used as spills for light-
ing the Chifley pipe ; that would be as
good a way as any of ensuring pleasant
pipe-dreams as an escape from the reali-
ties of the present-day Australian scene.
“Labor” today is not noted for facing
realities. That would mean accepting re-
sponsibilities, and for a crowd that has
spent a lifetime reviling capitalists, private
enterprise and non-“ Labor” Governments
for all the ills of the land, real and
imaginary, the acceptance of responsi-
bility is a thing that simply isn’t done.
There are in the ranks of “Labor” plenty
of visionaries. During the war they in-
dulged in-sdaydreams of a beautiful New
Order that was to emerge as by magic
from the ashes of war —a New Order in
which, despite the huge economic waste
of war, always stressed by “Labor” until
it found itself saddled with the job of
running one, there would be plenty for
everyone, a plenty that could be made
ever more plenteous by working less and
less.
There were many who believed path-
etically in “Labor’s” promises, and there
were many who,’ for various reasons,
Were prepared to push “Labor’s” barrow
and make thousands more believe in
them. Politicians attached to the
machine ; “experts” given the pedestal of
a war-time job and loth to see it vanish
with the peace ; a swarm of semi-public
servants whose pay came from the wholly
public purse; writing boys who fawned
on Federal Ministers and accepted their
vaporings as words of wisdom; radio
publicists short of a subject to bleat on ;
woolly-headed idealists with rose-tinted
glasses who saw in the smoke of war
visions of a Heaven on earth, a sort of
house not built with hands, but by wish-
ful thinking.
After 19 months of “peace,” faith in
“Labor’s” promises has been shaken. Mr.
Chifley’s Golden-Age talk is more pro-
ductive of rueful grins of disbelief than
of hopeful smiles of anticipation. But
the effect of six years of concentrated
hokum cannot be dispelled with the wave
of a wand and there is still a widespread
feeling among unionists that even if the
promised Order has to be postponed for
a few years there should still be a liberal
handout of something for nothing. Hence
the incredible demands for the ending
of wage-pegging and the continuing of
price-pegging; for a large increase in
wages and a large decrease in hours, with
consequent fall in output, already far
below pre-war levels. Despite Golden-
Age talk the Prime Minister and those
near to him seem to have realised the
impossibility of reconciling these oppos-
ing demands; but, being visionaries and
not men of vision, they lack the courage
and the commonsense to tell the rank
and file of “Labor” that they have been
leading them up the garden path and
that improved conditions can be won,
and maintained, only by hard work and
increased production.
In Water Under the Bridges, Sir Nevile
Henderson, sometime British Ambassador
in Berlin, had something to say about
Australian men of vision. Of a visit to
the Australian war graves on Gallipoli
with Mr. Bruce, he wrote;
All his talk was worth careful attention,
for I have never met anyone more level-
. headed and with more commonsense than
he had. Unless it were Mr. Menzies, who
was Australian Prime Minister when the
present war started. I met him in Berlin,
which he visited a couple of months before
the Munich crisis. He was then Attorney-
General of Australia. I had several very
long talks with him alone at the Embassy,
and all 1 can say is that if .here are many
others like him and Mr. Bruce in that
Dominion, Australia is fortunate. Both
had a breadth of vision which seems, since
the first World War ended, to have become
a lost quality in England.
These words were written during Hitler’s
war. Could Sir Nevile Henderson come
back to earth and see his Britain in the
icy grip of winter and theorists, and
come on to Australia in search of men
with breadth of vision, he would be sadly
disillusioned.
He would naturally look first among
members of the Federal Cabinet, since
it was among the ranks of previous
Federal Governments that he found his
first two examples. The Prime Minister
would probably be his first choice. No
breadth of vision there! Seen through
the screen of pipe-smoke there would be
the same old 1917 striker, whom the
years have mellowed, but not broadened,
Breadth of vision! In a man who allowed
his narrow party outlook to influence him
in appointing to the highest position in
the land a party politician to whom half
the population of the country were poli-
tically opposed and who, as it has since
turned out, did not even possess the
confidence of the party he led.
Sir Nevile Henderson might be excused
for expecting to find breadth of vision
in Deputy Prime Minister Evatt, who
in 1940 stepped down from the
High Court Bench to . enter the
National Parliament—but not a National
Government. Again the Englishman
woulej bi disappointed. He would
find a man who pursued no path
far and no policy for long. A man who,
living too long in a world of words, came
to believe in words as" a substitute for
action and became the perfect example
of lion abroad and lamb at home. A
man who sitting in world councils
breathed fiery words at Russian Com-
munists, but did nothing to curb the
activities of Russian-inspired Communists
in his own backyard. A man who aspired
to the “leadership” of small nations, but
gave his own small nation no leadership,
and surrendered its foreign policy to a
Communist minority.
From the figure of Dr. Evatt, the
searcher for breadth of vision would turn
sadly away.. And turning away, to which
of Dr. Evatt’s colleagues could he turn?
To Mr. Ward, basking in mob popularity
and mistaking the cheers of Darlinghurst
hooligans for the voice of the people?
A man who in Opposition opposed
strenuously all attempts adequately to
defend his country, then posed as one
of its saviors, yelping abuse and calumny,
at men without whose efforts he might
never have had a chance to yelp. No
man of vision this ; not even a visionary ;
just a demagogue whom accident
and an ill-advised Caucus made a Minis-
ter.
Breadth of vision in Mr. Calwell? The
thought hardly bears joking about. Or
in Mr. Dedman, from whom the sugges-
tion that workers should be assisted to
buy their own homes brought forth the
remark “We don’t want to create a nation
of little capitalists,” and who is the
Minister responsible for an Ex-service-
men’s Preference Act under which the
best jobs are reserved for non-starters
and discarded party hacks? The searcher
might as well look for it in a seventeenth-
century Covenanter.
And so it is with the rest of the hoil-
ing. Breadth of vision is an ingredient
entirely lacking in the make-up of a
“Labor” politician. Narrow in outlook
and encased in a shell of “class-conscious-
ness” that is as alien to Australia as
the callous selfishness it encourages,
“Labor” runs its purblind, reckless
course, heedless of lessons of the past;
and warnings of the future. And all at
a time when breadth of vision is needed
in Australia as never before.
The Wreckers.
In a decision dictated solely in the interests
of an internal union quarrel, the factions
being led by persons with Irish names, the
Communist-controlled central council of
the Waterside Workers’ Federation re-
buffed the executive of the Sydney branch
(recently elected as anti-Communist) by
declining to authorise extension of the
Sydney wharf stoppage to other Aus-
tralian ports. To which the Sydney gang,
breathing defiance against the central
executive as well as the general com-
munity, retorted that the stoppage would
continue. By that time the port of Sydney
had for morfe than a week been progres-
sively laid idle, each shift picked up re-
fusing to obey the Stevedoring Commis-
sion’s requirement to work overtime (a
traditional feature in the calling) in order
to clear the wharves of congestion.
In the overseas and coastal trades alike,
the number of ships immobilised steadily
rose until those later entering the port
could not tie up at the wharves either
to discharge or load cargo. The wharves
themselves had become heaped with cargo
—food for Britain, of course, among it —
to such an extent that even if the men had
been willing to work they could not
readily have uploaded perishable goods—
cargoes of potatoes, for instance—in-
tended for local consumption. The port
of Sydney was as dead as though block-
aded by an enemy’s fleet —the work of a
gang of direct actionists who have openly
defied the law, the special tribunal which
the union had sought to control and give
law to the industry, and the “Govern-
ment” at Canberra, which was —and is—
going through the motions of making the
special tribunal permanent (estimated cost
£600,000 a year), with two W.W.F. bosses
as paid members and Corns, not barred.
In the course of the wicked strike
the “Government” at Canberra, as
usual, did nothing but appeal in public
for a change of heart, and talk in camera
of conferences for the “prospecting
of all avenues,” etc. The “Government”
at Sydney so far renounced all interest
as to refuse debate to a motion by the
Opposition-leader in the Assembly to dis-
cuss the strike as an urgent matter. But
even “ ‘Labor’ Governments” cannot
mark time for ever against industrial in-
surrection. No tribunal, however con-
stituted, can exist in face of persistent
defiance. When all called-up gangs had
refused to work and been suspended, and
the labor pool was thus exhausted, the
chairman of the Stevedoring Commission
prepared to suspend that body, too. He
requested Canberra to abolish it forth-
with, so that the engagement and hand-
ling of labor might be thrown back to
the employers and the arbitration autho-
rity back to the Federal Court.
Next to a refusal by all coalminers to
produce coal there is no more certain
means of bringing industry throughout
the Commonwealth to a standstill than
by a waterside strike, with sympathetic
(because likewise Communist-led) unions
ready to weigh in with the watersiders
by declaring goods “black.” There is no
mistaking the Communists’ objective.
By destroying Australian trade and
draining the lifeblood of local in-
dustry, they can aim blows at Britain
and Australia simultaneously. Nor is
there anything new in these wreckers’
game. It has been going on for many
years, and always under direction from
the same spiritual home.
The shipowners, together with a real
Government at Canberra, defeated exactly
the same tactics of the wharfies in
1926-27, and of the seamen in 1924. The
watersiders under Communist control
laid Sydney just as idle 20 years ago, and
the culmination of 12 months of go-slow
and sectional stoppages came with the
same objection to double-shift work and
overtime and the same impudent defiance
of the Arbitration Court. When in early
December, 1926, Arbitration Judge
Beeby finally dug his toes ip, and told
the union that it must either obey the
Court’s directions or take what would be
coming to it!; the shipowners, having
accepted his interim award on overtime,
served an ultimatum on the union that
unless the men returned to work within
48 hours they would open free-labor
bureaus.
The Bruce-Page Government, for its
part, introduced without delay an amend-
ing Arbitration Bill providing for a secret
ballot on any industrial question; the
disallowance on petition by any trade-
unionist of union rules unreasonable,
oppressive, or contrary to law; power to
the Court, on deregistration of a union,
to dissolve it and distribute its surplus
property; and forbidding an organisa-
tion to impose penalties on members for
working in accordance with the terms of
an award. Even before this legislation
came before Parliament, the mere rumors
of Government action and the threat of
introduction of volunteer labor had
proved sufficient. The strike collapsed.
This is not a sectional question in our
politics. No political party, least of all
the “Labor” party, can tolerate long-
continued defiance of industrial law and
authority and itself continue to live. The
wreckers have declared war on all parties,
on the country, the public and the demo-
cratic way of life. Yielding to them, as
the Chifley “Government” habitually
does, can lead only to catastrophe.
Now and again some temporary
Leftist leader, before he disappears, ex-
poses the Communist conspiracy. Tom
Walsh did so during the seamen’s strike
in 1924. He had led the seamen
in the same way as the coalminers
and the wharfies have been led, until he
fizzled out, howled down at a mass meet-
ing in Fremantle of seamen and lumpers
in December, 1924. Walsh abandoned
the field and fled eastward again. Leav-
ing, he delivered a parting tirade in the
“Westralian Worker,” then edited by Mr.
Caster, against the Arbitration Court,
White Australia and the political Labor
party in all States. Therein he declared
that the rank and file must control the
party, reorganise its platform, abolish
“White Australianism” and assure that
“the working class must be served by the
army, navy and air force.”
There followed an exposition of the
gospel of direct action for overthrowing
the arbitration system:
Arbitration is no substitute for the class
struggle because the workers want
ownership and control of industry. The
Arbitration Court, however, is capable of
being used in the immediate interests of
the worker. When a dispute comes
within the scope of the Court the
Seamen’s Union finds it useful to force
. the shipowners into Court. Some disputes,
however, are not' capable of adjustment
by the Court, and on my advice the Sea-
men’s Union fought the maritime strike
in 19 19 outside the Court and with great
success. I will have no hesitation in ad-
vising members of the Seamen’s Union
again to seek redress outside the Court
immediately this atmosphere is favorable.
Now you have my idea of arbitration.
Therein Tom Walsh blew the gaff. That
the Communist gang threw him over for
doing so goes without saying. The Com-
munists made him a marked man till the
end of his days, for they do not forget the
treason of those guilty of exposing the
party’s hand. What they rely upon is that
the public does forget, even when prev-
ious efforts to sabotage its industry, its
services and its right to free enterprise
are renewed in the same old way.
A "Go-ahead" Crowd.
Commonwealth-member Joe Abbott’s
references to British and Canadian
scientists who disclosed precious secrets
to Moscow and his incidental mention of
“the Australian Association of Scientific
Workers” recall the praise given to that
organisation by the “Tribune” (Com.).
It was styled “the go-ahead Aus-
tralian Association of Scientific Workers”
in a “Tribune” report of a Sydney con-
ference organised by the “go-ahead” show
nearly three years ago, with the Conser-
vatorium of Music for theatre. There
were present Government directors, uni-
versity professors, doctors, members of
the Teachers’ Federation executive (its
Left Wing had tried to involve the N.S.W.
teaching body in a boycott of a Sydney
University extension lecturer who had in-
dulged in some criticism of the Mighty
Soviet), and the “Arts and Science Com-
mittee of the Communist party.”
Representing this “Arts and Science
Committee” were “Central Committee
member Ernie Campbell”; a certain
“Sid Conway” (presumably the Sidney
Conway who had stood as a Com-
munist candidate for Cook at the
previous year’s Commonwealth elec-
tions) ; a Mi'- Trail from Victoria
and a Mr. Hibbard from N. S.
Wales. Mr. Trail and Mr. Hibbard held
forth scornfully on the small proportion
of the national income spent on scientific
research in Australia compared with the
stupendous sums spent in the U.S.S.R.
Others in attendance were Dr. Coombs,
Director-Genbral of Post-war Recontruc-
tion, and a Dr. Dark, from Katoomba
(N.S.W.). Dr. Coombs thrilled the
assembly by uttering the blessed word
Revolution; but it transpired that the
revolution he proposed and undertook
to bring about was restricted to the “anti-
quated building industry.” With charac-
teristic bureaucratic modesty Dr. Coombs
revealed that “we” — i.e., he and his team
of planners—were “planning a building
programme twice as big as in the best
pre-war years,” though he allowed that
“it will take us two years to catch up on
the housing programme.” Houseless
servicemen are of opinion that it will take
these exploded pedants 40 years to “catch
up.”
Dr. Dark, a figure in a branch of the
“Labor” organisation in Mr Chifley’s
electorate which has since fallen out with
the A.L.P. executive, followed with an
attack on Britain. It was a sequel to an
allegation of his branch, made in Mr.
Chifley’s presence a few weeks after the
1943 elections, that the British Cabinet
had “incurred disgrace through its
failure to take action that will relieve
the intolerable burden borne by the
Russians,” a failure “bringing unneces-
sary suffering and death.” Dr. Dark
alleged that the imposition of the means
test in 1932 had caused “200,000 deaths”
of Britons, and that the medical profession
in Britain had been a party to the crime.
None of the “go-ahead Scientific
Workers” nor any other person within
hearing pointed out that deaths in Eng-
land, Wales and Scotland during eight
depression and post-depression years were
fewer, and death-rates consequently
smaller, than in the last pre-depression
year.
The voice of the Communist scientist
Haldane, a director of the “Daily
Worker,” which was suspended for two
years by a British Labor Minister as
punishment for its surrender-to-Hitler
policy during the blitz, was heard during
the proceedings, being broadcast from
London or somewhere. And “Sid Con-
way” spoke a piece. “Sid Conway” was
concerned with the need for scientific edu-
cation of industrial managements “so that
bluff and bluster may be replaced by
scientific planning.”
If the “ ‘Labor’ Government” really
has “Security officers” engaged in trying
to prevent Communists becoming privy to
rocket-bomb and other secrets, this 1944
meeting should not now escape its atten-
tion, as was obviously the case at the
time. There have been other Communist-
press references to “the go-ahead Aus-
tralian Association of Scientific Workers.
They should be followed up with at least
the same zeal that “Security officers”
showed in the cases of the retired bank
and assurance-co. officials and the Diggers
alleged to belong to the Australia First
organisation, who, pursued by foul Com-
munist invective, were dragged into and
kept in internment camps, from which
one of the Diggers emerged a dying man,
too far gone to learn that he and his
companions had been vindicated by a
Federal Judge and recommenced for
compensation by the Crown.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Vile and Contemptible.
No Australian with any heart, whatever
his origins or political sympathies, could
have read without a stirring of the old
generous impulses of the nation last
week’s reports on the food situation and
outlook in the ancient homeland of the
race.
A million shefep dead in the blizzard.
The autumn ploughing stopped by the
same cruel stroke of misfortune and an-
other harvest in danger—the last, accord-
ing to James Turner, president of the
Farmers’ Union, personally known to
many Australian farmers —was “the most
catastrophic on record.” A food ration
inferior in quantity and variety to those
obtaining in Holland, Belgium and Den-
mark, countries which for four years
were under the German heel. Floods in
England and Wales, London short of
water and Scotland snowbound. And a
dreadful mortality among ill-nourished
people during the period when industry
and transport were stopped or halted—
a 23 to 28 per cent, increase in deaths dur-
ing five weeks of misery ; 30,500 more
dead in districts with less than half the
population of the U.K. than in the corres-
ponding period of 1946, when there was
an influenza epidemic.
But in one quarter there were reactions
as cold as the blizzard. “For the third
time in five sitting days” Federal “Labor”
gagged debate on Earle Page’s motion for
a gift of £25,000,000-Worth of foodstuffs
to the British people. It is on the* record
that “the Prime Minister, Mr. Chifley,
moved the gag, which was carried by 35
to 24.” This Prime Minister saw for
himself the devastation wrought by the
German bombing of Britain, and a little
reflection must have convinced him that,
at best, years of a Spartan regime were
in store for the devoted people; but
what he saw then and what has hap-
pened since left his 1917 striker’s heart
unmoved. Unmoved even to the extent
of calling off the official hostility to the
Food for Britain movement, which was,
and is, in the finest Australian tradition.
In another quarter, that in which
Waterside Federation bosses, avowed
Communists and alleged “moderates”
threw their weight about, there was fero-
cious hostility to the loading of food for
the British people and the unloading of
goods for the Australian people. The
Communist strike against “overtime” had
been followed by a strike of “moderates,”
with the same evil consequences and the
same “Labor” surrender to industrial
dingoes. In the meantime Communists
persuaded the crews of freighters bound
for Britain to refuse duty as a “protest”
against their British union’s wages agree-
ment with shipowners.
In this matter of Food for Britain
“Labor,” Communist and “moderate”
leaders are all alike —vile and con-
temptible.
"Labor" on the Skids.
“Labor” would not be “Labor,” as Aus-
tralia has come to know it, if the Com-
monwealth “ ‘Labor’ Government” had
not intervened in the South Australian
Assembly election, although, strictly
speaking—in the “Labor” jargon—State
elections are not “Federal matters.”
To assist South Australians to vote the
right way Mr. Chifley had promised
delayed-action tax-cuts. He sent some
of his Ministers into the constituencies,
notably Mr. Pollard, to whom was
assigned the job of justifying to wheat-
growers the sale 'of Australian wheat, a
lot of it grown in the central State, to the
N.Z. “ ‘Labor’ Government” at two-fifths
of the current export price, the difference
to be met by taxpayers —the original in-
tention was that wheatgrowers, South
Australians among them, should be
loaded with it. And Mr. Chifley associ-
ated himself with the S.A. A.L.P.’s elec-
tion advertising. On the day before the
electors went to the polls there was issued
a full-page advertisement, with portraits
of Mr. Chifley and the five State “Labor”
Premiers, Mr. Chifley being pictured as
urging Opposition-leader Richards to
“complete the chain.” An unfortunate
expression, which no doubt contributed
to the unfortunate result —for “Labor.”
Obviously the electors filed into the pol-
ing booths very conscious of the fatt that
their Government, that of Old Digger
Tom Playford, was the only non-“ Labor”
Government in Australia. Possibly the
hands of some of them unconsciously
strayed to their necks. When midnight
came the majority of them must have
felt that they had done a proper job. For
even then it was clear that the Playford
Government would no longer be depen-
dent on the support of three Indepen-
dents, though their support had been
accorded in such full measure that the
Liberal and Country League gave them its
votes and influence. By midnight the
return of ‘22 Lib.-C.P. Ms.H.A. was
certain, assuring them a clear majority
of four, exclusive of the Speaker, in a
House of 39 members. They could
muster only 19 votes, including the
Speaker’s, in the last Assembly.
Later returns increased the Playford
majority. A general survey showed that
in all electorates where there was a con-
test of parties the Lib.-C.P. vote was up
and the Labor vote down. Suburban and
country electorates revealed the same
trend. “Labor” members were hard-
pressed even in constituencies which they
regarded as certain: in suburban Good-
wood, for example, the “Labor” majority
of 2833 at the previous election was re-
duced to a few hundred. “Labor” had set
great store on the advent of unionists in
suburban electorates as a result of the
energetic Playford industrial policy. It
is clear that a large number of these and
other unionists and their womenfolk
voted for Liberal candidates.
To Westralia went other Federal
“Labor” Ministers to assist the State
“Labor” party to continue its long and
undistinguished career in office. Appear-
ances and expectations were that they
would return to Canberra triumphant,
for the arrangement of electoral boun-
daries admitted of “Labor” winning 30
of thfe 50 Assembly seats with no more
than 30 per cent, of total votes if the
whole 50 were contested. At the previous
election “Labor” had carried off 31,
though in ensuing years it lost a couple—
one to a Liberal and the other to an In-
dependent. And the closing of nomina-
tions for the 1947 contests gave it an im-
mense advantage in unopposed returns:
15 Labor (including Premier Wise and
THE N. S. WELSH WIZARD.
“Dr. Evatt has introduced bills to amend the Arbitration Act for the 16th time (in this
case by appointing 15 Conciliation Commissioners at £1500 a year), to set up a permanent
Stevedoring Industry Commission and to get appearance money, holiday pay and fees, for
Commissioners (two of them are to be Waterside Workers’ Federation bosses, presumably the
Communists Healy and Roach) by a levy on employers.”
OWEN GLENDOWER EVATT :
I can call spirits of industrial peace
From the vasty deeps of legislation.
HOTSPUR MENZIES:
Why, so can I, or so can any man;
But will they come when you do call for them?
four of his Ministers); four Opposition
and an Independent,
So “Labor” had only to win 11 seats to
be sure of remaining on the Treasury
benches; 10 if it put an Independent in
the Speaker’s chair. Yet at the end of
the second day’s counting it could reckon
only on seven of the required 10 or 11
seats. It had lost ground everywhere ex-
cept on the goldfields. It was travelling
badly, not only in metropolitan, farming,
fruitgrowing and northern mining and
pastoral districts, but even in the port of
Bunbury and that of Geraldton, which re-
turned the now-retired Mr. Willcock, 10
years Premier, for 30 years. The indica-
tions were that if the “Government”
scraped back it would be by an odd vote
or two in Pilbara which, with fewer than
500 people voting (in suburban Canning,
which is to have a Liberal member, the
number was just on 13,000), is not en-
titled to a separate representative.
When Australian electorates turn
against “Labor” they do the job
thoroughly and on a continent-wide basis.
And it is fairly clear that the process is
in operation once more.
A Ferocious Killing.
Murder, brutal and callous, and often
an outcome of sexual passion, is be-
coming an all-too-common feature of the
Australian scene.
A recent victim of sub-human savagery
was a 19-year-old Brisbane girl, Bronia
Mary Armstrong, who was done to death
by a man who by virtue of his position
should have been her protector.
Reginald Spence Brown was secretary
of the Brisbane Associated Friendly
Societies Institute, whose rooms are situ-
ated above a shopping arcade in Albert-
street. Miss Armstrong was his secretary
and typist. Early in January Brown re-
turned from a holiday and found that
the girl had “given notice.” On January
11 she was found dead in the office ; and
suspicion fell on Brown.
A condensed account of the trial;
Police evidence fell into three parts —what
was heard, what was found and what- the
accused said about what was heard and
found. According to the prosecution several
people heard loud screams and thumping
noises coming from' the vicinity of the tragedy
between 4.10 and 4.30 p.m. on January 10.
Some of these people were inside the build-
ing, in one case in the room below Brown’s
office; others were outside in the street.
Next morning the unfortunate girl’s body was
discovered in a position which at first sug-
gested suicide, lying on the floor beside a
couch, head on a pillow and right hand placed
over but not holding an unlabelled atomiser
bottle. Medical evidence spoke of bruises and
brownish marks on the body and considered
death was due to asphyxia. A post-mortem re-
vealed no signs of volatile chlorides in the body,
and the pathologist said he felt certain that “a
singularly unconvincing attempt had been made
to create the impression of suicide.”
A detective who questioned Brown next morn-
ing said his fingers bore several lacerations and
his fingernails were badly bruised. Brown’s
explanation of this was that he had been
assaulted by two thugs the night before in
Turbot-street, his hand being bitten in the course
of his struggles. A drawer In Brown’s desk
contained a pendant belonging to Miss Arm-
strong. Several links were missing from the
chain, and these were found in cracks in the
flooring. According to the detective, Brown
said the girl had more than once hinted at
taking her life. Searched, his pockets yielded
several scraps of paper with phrases and words
scribbled on them. These, said Brown, were
snatches of Miss Armstrong’s conversation he
had. jotted down to cover himself in the event
of her being found dead. According to the
prosecution, the notes were written after the
girl’s death.
Brown admitted to the police that he
had been on the premises at the time the
murder was alleged to have occurred, but dis-
claimed any part in it and said he had heard
no screams. Relations and close friends de-
scribed Miss Armstrong as of a happy, light-
hearted disposition, and none had ever known
.her to show any suicidal tendencies. Several
witnesses were called who had been in Turbot-
street at the time Brown claimed to have been
assaulted; none had seen any signs of a brawl
or disturbance.
The case for the defence was unusually
short. Brown did not go into the witness box.
The jury returned a verdict of “Guilty.”
Justice Mansfield asked Brown’s counsel
if he had anything to say. Counsel replied
“It would be a waste of time for me to say any-
thing.” His Honor, addressing Brown, said
it was one of the most brutal and pathetic
cases in the history of Queensland crime.
But in Queensland, as in other States
ruled by a sentimental “Labor” mob that
regards murderers as unfortunate victims
of the capitalist system, there is no hang-
ing. Through the beneficence of this
high-souled theory Miss Armstrong’s rela-
tions and friends will have the privilege
of sharing with other taxpayers the cost
of feeding and housing her murderer for
probably more years than the poor girl,
who struggled desperately for her honor
and her life, was fated to enjoy.
An "Australian" Abroad.
From a New York “Herald Tribune”
interview:
“In Australia practically everybody goes
to the races,” said the visitor to our shores.
■ “And they drink. Those are the two
principal pastimes. Oh, yes,” added the
visitor, “and cricket. Once I went to a
cricket match at Sydney. Fifty thousand
people. Every ten minutes something hap-
pened. I know it did because 50,000 people
do not yell at the same time by accident.
But I could never tell what it was.”
Thus did the people of New York learn
a little about a country which has pro-
duced two generations of fighting Diggers
who, between July, 1918, and August,
1945, had a great many Americans for
comrades-in-arms. One would expect
such remarks from a representative of
the Chicago “Tribune,” but the speaker
was an “Australian” so-called: — >
The visitor,' speaking between diligent
applications to a bowl of bouillabaisse with
a high frequency of lobster claws, was
Orlando Azzalin Romano, of Padua, Ver-
ona, Vienna, London, Berlin, Nice, Paris,
New South Wales and, currently, the Plaza
Hotel (N.Y.).
Coming from an “Australian,” such re-
marks uttered publicly overseas would
at least be in bad taste. It is outrageous
that they shrould be mouthed abroad by
Romano (or Azzalin), of Padua, Verona,
Vienna, London, Berlin, Nice, Paris and
Sydney, since the best part of his no
doubt considerable fortune must have
been derived from his Sydney joint. Much
of it came from the pockets of Allied
servicemen, on leave from battle areas
during the war, though for a period
Romano’s found itself in disfavor with
U.S. authorities.
Reading further into Azzalin’s inter-
view with Joe H. Palmer, of the “Herald
Tribune,” one learns that he did not visit
the U.S.A. merely to give Australia pub-
licity of a sort. His purpose was
“to study hotels and nightclubs with a view
to using his knowledge in Australia.”
Also, of course, to get the best possible
price for his horse Bernborough, bought
after he (Romano, not Bernborough) had
had to pay £5OO fine and treble tax for
income-tax “evasion”;
“I will get in trouble for selling him,”
Mr. Romano said. “They will say he
should have stayed in Australia. But
if he does as well at the stud as he did on
the track, look what he will do for Aus-
tralian breeders!”
Of course it might be argued that if
Bernborough proved a successful sire
he would have brought more tangible
benefits to the Australian turf by being
kept in Australia. But Australian breeders
would scarcely have paid what the Holly-
wood .film man gave for him, and, in
any case, they would have been short
of the dollars required by Romano (or
whatever his name is) for inspection of
U.S. pubs and nightclubs.
So Romano (or Azzalin) may be left
gobbling up his bouillabaisse, to which,
Palmer noted, “he seemed particularly
partial.”
Mr. Dooley on the Inaugural.
“C” on a resurrection job:
Mr. Hennessey approached the verandah in
thoughtful mood. . ,
“Ph wat’s the matter wid ye, Hinmssey? asked
Mr. Dooley.
“It was a rare, grand, fine, gr-reat, ar-risto-
cratic affair,
Dukes and ea-rls and nice young gerrls and
iverybody was there.
“Wasn’t it so? Or did, ye lose the invitation
card that y’r gin’rous Parliamentary ripresenta-
tive got ye?”
“It was nothing like that,’ said Hennessey.
“Don’t tell me at least it was not a grrand
day for th’ Oirish,” retorted Mr. Dooley. “Oi’ve
just r-read the list in the papers, tnough, be-
gob, of the politeeshians it looks as though
there was giore of them honored .the grreat
occcasion by stayin’ away than prisentin’ them-
selves. And the curtseyin’ was'a bit patchy
among the ladies. Be the powers Oi’d loike to
have been wid ye if only to see Bob Menzies
doin’ what one jour-nail called ‘a most correct
bow’ to Vice-King Billy.”
“Niver you moind, Dooley,” said Hennessey.
“I see be the papers the Minister for Eire
was prisent to welcome the inthroduction into
this fair, advancin’ counthry of the principle
that there’s no umpires for ye in constitootional
disputes like those ye appint y’self,” Mr.
Dooley proceeded. “No toitles for Dev., Hen-
nessey ; but didn’t Labor-r get one fer Sneddon,
the Sikketry of Defence? And I wouldn’t bet
ye more than a dollar that Billy won’t consent
in time to bein’ made Duke of Redfern.
Aren’t his barrackers already boostin’ him as
doin’ rather better than ‘From Log-cabin to
White House’?”
“Oi’m sayin’ nothing,” said Hennessey.
“For a privileged citizen that’s just been
prisent at the event of the year, Hinnissey, ye’re
a disappointment to y’r friend Dooley,” said
that worthy. “Couldn’t ye tell a man who’s
ready to hang on y’r words how Doc Evatt
looked when Vice-King Billy was takin’ the
oath? Wud ye judge he was sayin’ to himself
‘There but for the grace of Caucus goes Bert
Evatt’ —or was he lookin’ as though there was
better things in sthore f’r him? And poor little
ould Jim Scullin, tell me how he looked.”
“Lave Jimmy alone,” said Hennessey.
“Calwell wasn’t there, I belave,” Mr. Dooley
proceeded. “Was Jack Lapg, who gave his bless-
ing to the anti-Communist Labor par-rty of
Jack Beasley, Dan Mulcahy an’ Tommy Shea-
han? I see where Jack’s been saying in his
‘Century’ that Chif. has a scheme to promote
himsilf next, and to a job wid even less cares
and more impartial than Gov’nor-Giniral, and
that’s Gov’nor-Giniral of the Commonwealth
Bank. Jack has been often roight in his
guessin’. Anyway, we’ll agree he sometimes
hits the mark about what his old frinds of the
past are likely to do when the lid’s prised off
the pork-barrel.
“Wud ye say, if that happens, that McKell
wud be left high and dhry in his new, fine posi-
tion, his friend gone from the Prime Minister’s
Lodge and himsilf wid the divil of a constitu-
tional problem to chew over in his grrand new
Rolls-Ryce? Whom to take as his advoi’ser
among the squabbling mobs in Cabinet and
Caucus, and who gits the dissolution and who
gits the raspberry? Still and all, Hinnissey, 1
like his chances of survival, Hinnissey, better
than the chances of Doc Evatt, unless the
doc. gits himself made Minister of External
Affairs in the unbor-rn Cabinet of the United
Nations, or maybe Proime Minister of it.”
“He’d have to have the greaser vote for that,”
said Hennessey. “In any case them South
Americans couldn’t put him in on their own.
o Continued on page 14)


r
♦
0
m
m
m
6576
,;f •;:
OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
CARRERAS LTD.
An’ there’s a Commo inshurrection in Paraguay,
be all accounts.”
“I’ll tell you what I think, Hinnissey,” said
Mr. Dooley. “When the bhoys have cut all the
shillelahs in Bretton Woods, an’ broke ’em all
on one another’s skulls, our Doc Evatt’ll
go to McKell and say T’m the wan that’s
givin’ you the advoice shtraight from the horse’s
mouth, and there’s none knows the twists of
the Constitoqtion better than me.’ And after
that, Hinnissey, you’ll be callin him Sir Herbert
Vere Evatt, Proime Minister, wid the first New
Year that breaks, and McKell could be a Duke
wid the same stroke. Wanst thim two football-
committee fans git togither”
“I entoi'rely disagree wid ye,” said Hen-
nessey. “An’ as for Jack Lang, he’s only pan-
derin’ to indacent moinds like yours.”
“Now, Hinnissey, you’re unfair. Indacent
minds indade! If these bully bhoys polishin’
up careers from Yarra to Yarralumla, and Red-
fern to Red Hill, are goin’ to play their games
regar-rdless of you and me and the taxes and
the stroikes and shortages* at the very least,
Hinnissey, I’m goin’ to allow meself freedom
to say what I think about thim and their capers.
“And, anyway, ye brought all this on y’self'
by cornin’ here after the grand McKell cere-
mony—almost a coronation —and him Viceroy
of the Commonwealth, straight from the Primier-
ship of New South Oireland.”
“Oh, dhry up, Dooley,” said Hennessey,
“I didn’t go.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Long ago, when one, -vote-one-value
was one of the “Labor” principles, The
Bulletin’s “T. the R.,” then editing a
Westralian paper, 'described Frank
Connor, then M.L.A. for Kimberley, as
“the exuberant representative of 33
votes.” Premier Wise and some of his
followers were re-elected as the repre-
sentatives of not many more than 33
voters ; but they were not noticeably ex-
uberant on Monday. With 15 unopposed
returns and only 10 or 11 seats needed,
they were then three or four • short
of requirements. And it must have been
borne in on their minds that one-vote-
one-value would have consigned them to
the cold shades for thrfce years at least.
A gain of four seats would have given
the S.A. “Labor” party a majority in
the Assembly, and Chifley banked on it.
In the event “Labor” lost four seats, leav-
ing it with 13 —one-third. To find a
parallel in .any Australian legislature, it
would be necessary to go back 17 years.
And the party lost a seat in the Leg.
Council, making the position- there:
Lib.-C.P. 16 ; “Labor” 4.
Except for a defence of the McKell
appointment, Ward has taken little part
in the debates at Canberra this trip. He
is expected to bound into the centre of
the stage for he is opposed to
the Bretton Woods agreement, and also to
part of the Evatt Stevedoring Industry
Commission Bill. Evatt was not a party
to the proceedings in which Ward,
Beasley, Lazzarini and James (now per-
haps tamed by his “liaison” job and car)
whirled themselves away from the Scullin
Government and brought it down. Chifley
was, and he must be a prey to gloomy
memories and forebodings.
Over 700 foreign Jews were brought to
Sydney on Sunday by 1 the Dutch vessel
Johann de Witt —about 200 more than
had been anticipated by people who had
read what Calvell said and taken him
seriously. On the same day Calvell had to
admit that he had failed to charter the
Aquitania for British immigrants—an-
nounced as an accomplished fact many
weeks ago—but he alleged that he had
secured three other vessels for British
immigrants. A cold review is that he
doesn’t care two straws for British
immigration, and that on the score of
Jewish immigration, when he isn’t address-
ing Jews in places like the Maccabean
Hall, Sydney, his word isn’t worth a
row of pins.
Calvell has been reported as bleating
something about another referendum.
With the swing against “Labor” now
dreadfully evident, it’s a safe bet that
Chif. and Bert Evatt wouldn’t touch a
referendum now with a 40ft. pole.
A very unusual “Labor” review of the
South Australian'election, in which Play-
ford is presented as “a man of integrity
and certainly one of action,” who has
“played a big part in manoeuvring new
industries to his State:
In this he has shown more interest than
. in the promotion of race clubs, etc. It
is a big factor in success at the polls for a
party to be led by one who commands per-
sonal respect. By the same Tine of reason-
ing we arrive at the conclusion that shady
deeds and dealings, however much they may
be hidden by showmanship, do our own
party very much harm on occasions. In-
deed, Labor has been frequently split and
political chances wrecked by some bounder
on the make. Nobody ever suggests that
Playford is “in the bag,” that he is bought,
that anybody has corrupted him. He gets
above suspicion, even though he resists in
some cases the very legitimate demands of
unionism.
The Old Digger should certainly pre-
serve this unique tribute among his re-
cords. It appeared in the Broken Hill
“Truth.”
Between March, 1943, and March,
1946, Australia lost nearly 400,000 (7.8
p.c.) dairy cattle, and “the number of
dairy calves under one year has decreased
to such ap extent that a further decline in
total dairy numbers seems likely” (Com-
monwealth Statistician). Factory-butter
output fell from 203,500 tons in 1939 to
150,194 tons in 1946, All this notwith-
standing £21,718,000 in subsidies for
butter, cheese and dried-milk production
and £4,605,000 for whole-milk producers.
Droughts, of course, have been to a con-
siderable extent responsible for stock
losses ; all the same the industry is obvi-
ously feeling the effects of bureaucracy
and industrial anarchy, together with the
lack of a fair market price for butter.
When this was printed export wheat
had risen another Is. 6d. a bushel to
15s. Hid. for bulk, f.o.r. main ports. And
Mr, Scully agreed to let Mr. 1 Sullivan
have 18,000,000 bushels of it over four
years at ss. 9d.! Meantime, with seeding
time right on hand, growers are despair-
ingly trying to get hold of fuel, spare
parts and labor to sow the next crop ; and
for the next crop, despite the raving
world wheat hunger, they daren’t work
an acre without first getting a licence
w,hich fixes, on the word of some official,
the amount they may lawfully sow.
McKell swore that he would “well and
truly serve as sovereign lord his Majesty
King Geo,rge the Sixth in the office of
Governor-General and Commander-in-
Chief.” “And Comraander-in-Chief! ”
Well, it must have given two generations
of servicemen a grim laugh!
The latest wharf strike, in addition to
becoming a shindy between Goughian
and Roach, brought a repetition of three
sentences which politicians and news-
paper men mumble in their dreams.
Federal “Labor”: “That’s a State
matter.”
State “Labor”: “That’s a Federal
matter.”
Political roundsmen: “The Government
discussed the matter but did not arrive at
a decision.”
It would save printers’ time in all daily
newspaper offices if these lines were “kept
standing.”
After years of invective and invidious
comparison with Soviet Russia, Ward has
at length found something good to say
for Britain:
The British Government has decided to
give to India the independence promised
many years ago. It has done likewise in
Egypt. In Ceylon the people are to be
given self-government. A very realistic
policy.
So it is “very realistic” to give the Empire
away. When the effects of the “realism”
come home to Australia, as they are sure
to do in very nasty forms, Ward will, of
course, blame the, “capitalists” and extol
Stalin and his crowd who, saved from
certain defeat at the hand of their
1939-41 pals, have used their favored
position to grab every stretch of country
they can get their greedy hands on.
It was like “S. M. Herald” to scold
Opposition members for absenting them-
selves from the Chifley-McKell show at
Canberra on March 11, and to burble
that “this form of protest was needlessly
ungracious.” “Needlessly ungracious” to
refuse the sanction of a personal appear-
ance to the consummation of a low!
Tammany job!
At the 1944 Queensland Assembly elec-
tions 98,551 votes gave “Labor” 12
metropolitan seats, five more than the
Q.P.P. got, though Q.P.P. candidates
polled 99,092 votes. And “Labor” held
seven central electorates with a total of
33,022 votes; 23,927 C.P. and Q.P.P.
votes did not elect a single member.
That’s what the Opposition is up against
in the land of the continuous Govern-
ment. Still, it is only a circumstance to
what the Opposition was up against in
Westralia,
Chifley’s favorite excuse for chicken-
hearted inertia is that “you can’t force
unionists to work if they don’t want to.”
But you can prevent Communists and
other workstoppers from forcing masses
of unionists into idleness, as they have
done in every war and past-war strike.
The Communist and other workstoppers
have gained their foul ends by exercising
the law of the push. They could have
been checkmated by recourse to the law
of the land, and the law of the land is the
thing workstoppers fear most. Invoked
by Truman with results felt round the
world, it has remained unexercised in
“Labor’s” palsied hands.
On March 7 S.A. Labor had a full-
page election ad. in the Adelaide “Ad-
vertiser,” with portraits of Chifley, Mc-
Girr, Hanlon, Wise, Cosgrove and
Richards and a Chifley message to
Richards;
Well, Fob, let’s finish the job and com-
plete the chain!
“Chain” was right; but, as always, it
proved no stronger than its weakest link.
And there are other weak links.
Forde’s successor Chambers in another
of his fatuous moments (Feb. 21):
Members opposite have the temerity to
claim that the Government has not the
confidence of the people. I challenge them
to watch for the results of the State elec-
tions to be held in South Australia.
They watched, and saw the numbers go
up ; Playford’s side, 26 ; Chambers’s side,
13.
When Comrade Millar, president of
the Queensland coalies, was cast in £75
damages, plus costs, for calling some
honest Queensland miners “scabs,” it was
here asked (B. 26/2/’47) who would find
the money. The answer is given by
“ ‘Pitlight,’ issued by the Booval branch,
Australian Communist party”: —•
It cost Tommy Miller £75 for saying
in public that which practically every
member of the Queensland Miners’ Union
thought of the Roughrigg members who
worked during the last strike Every
good unionist knows that there is an un-
written law of loyalty to union principles
that supersedes all others regardless .of per-
sonal feelings Latest reports indicate
that the A.M.I.E.U. has decided to pay the
fine [damages]. This is a commendable
gesture.
No doubt it would be thrice “commend-
able” if the “fine” could be extorted by
levy from the plaintiffs called “scabs.”
Melbourne has had another meatless
week, although there have been confer-
ences galore. At the time of writing
Premier Cain was holding one which, if
it broke down, was to bring in Pollard
with threats that his Government
would ban auction sales and compel pro-
ducers to consign stock direct to killing
and treatment centres. A Mornington
butcher reports that his daily turnover
has doubled since local people began
buying “Bundles for Melbourne” to send
to friends and relatives in the stricken
city.
Just when Dr. Evatt was (as he said)
“opening a new chapter in Australia’s
attempt to regulate relations between em-
ployer and employee”—by, of course,
introducing a bill—the Commonwealth
statistician was disclosing that more than
11,000 men and 3000 women had lost their
jobs through strikes and lock-outs in the
second, half of 1946 and that the Com-
monwealth had paid out £1,144,000 in
unemployed-relief for the full year.
There were other figures:
Laid off because of power rationing,
11,012; because of shortage of materials,
1502; retrenched, including closing of fac-
tories, 1521; received unemployed-relief
June-Dee., 1946, 46,200.
Small figures, perhaps, in a population
of 7,400,000, but they’re growing. And
they are an increasing worry to State
“Labor” politicians with elections to pre-
pare for.
What with lack of ships and the reluct-
ance of wharfies to work any that do
arrive, North Queenslanders are in a
continual fret about the vast accumula-
tion of sugar in stores. With the new
cane season not three months away,
Mackay, Townsville and other ports are
jammed with sugar, the stuff is deteriorat-
ing and all the promises of politicians
and Government shipping “authorities”
haven’t so far moved a pound of it,
though the need —especially in Victoria—
is great. Between Communist outlaws
and Socialist theorists N.Q. is not even
experiencing a Golden-syrup Age.
After a spirited attack on the “Gov-
ernment” for its spinelessness in dealing
with industrial outlaws, C. W. Davidson,
who now represents Capricomia, once
held by a Mr. Forde, pronounced its
soldier-settlement scheme a washout
—“the number of men placed on the
land under that scheme can be stated in
hundreds instead of thousands.” The
colonel was generous.
McGirr’s best bet for the N.S.W. elec-
tion is the asininity of some of the
Liberal bosses. Never tired of girding at
the Country party because it objects to
being smothered, these worthies refused a
Menzies offer to speak for them in the
constituencies on the ground that “the
campaign should be confined to State
issues and State personalities.” “State
personalities” have no drawing power,
and “State issues” are so intermingled
with Federal issues—notably in respect
of coal, taxation and wheat —that it is
impossible to separate them. Scully’s
wheat deal with Sullivan has had palp-
able reactions in South Australia and
Westralia. It. would be crazy to exclude
it from the list of subjects presented to
N.S.W. electors.
One thing is certain about the contest
in Westralia —whatever the outcome, the
Opposition parties will represent a
majority of the electors. They have won
Nedlands, for- which “Labor” could not
dig up a candidate, and they look like
winning Canning, with Hawthorn and
Middle Swan as well. In 1943 these
divisions contained more than one-fifth
of the total enrolment (274,856), and
they have increased in population since,
whereas the population of some of the
“Labor” pocket boroughs has declined.
There are 50 Assembly seats.
Toughest question put to a Minister
at the opening of British Parliament:
When will the secret treaty of 1939 be-
tween Germany and Russia be published?
The reply was evasive. German Foreign
Office documents were in Anglo-American
custody and a team of “independent
historians” was choosing documents for
publication, guided “solely by considera-
tions of scholarship.”
An ex-serviceman, his wife and two-
year-old daughter have arrived in Mel-
bourne, his birthplace, after trekking per
foot and perambulator from Albury to
Newcastle and then to Sydney. The ex-
Digger was engaged in a house search
which has used up all his deferred pay
and cost him a good job—he had to
throw it up because he was homeless.
Calwell’s refugees—another 700 have
landed —are never homeless.


“THE OLD GREY MARE SHE AIN’T WHAT SHE USED TO BE.”
“Though parties of Chifley Ministers were on hand to help, the South Australian and Westralian Assembly elections showed a general and
decided swing against ‘Labor’.”


Society
"ND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Nelson’s Ghost”: Although in the
flesh I was never a one for frills I con-
fess that on the occasions when I did
struggle into Court dress I rather fancied
the dignified figure I cut. Admittedly
modern naval dress uniforms don’t com-
pare in elegance with the vesture of my
day, but compared with the civilian garb
of the present time they are demned neat.
Imagine, then, my disgust at reading in
the celestial edition of the Sydney “Daily
Mirror” that
Mr. McKell wore a double-breasted
dark lounge suit which made dignified con-
trast with the white uniform of his official
secretary, Rear-Admiral Sir Leighton Brace-
girdle
Dignified contrast, forsooth! Who is this
McKell” Who runs this “Daily Mirror”?
Could they be friends, perhaps?
“Wodgil” meets a representative of the
Ring:
Long ago, as perhaps I have mentioned be-
fore, I met the first Billy McKell to get his
name in the papers. In fact, as a cub re-
porter I had something to do with the business
part of a fight Billy McKell had with Frank
Thorn —afterwards a champion for many years,
off and on—in the old Perth (W.A.) Skating
Rink. Billy had been trained in a good school
and was still a clever boxer and game; but he
was stricken in years, and Thorn was too young
and strong for him. They fought 20 rounds
in those days, and I can still see the old boy
staggering about the ropes in the twentieth
round, instinctively ducking Thorn’s ferocious
swings and grinning hideously, his only two
teeth showing. Afterwards the party made its
way to the back parlor of a pub, where the
“gate” was distributed: 60 'gleaming sovereigns,
25 for the defeated warrior. Bung parted up
with the gold in exchange for the silver takings,
keeping the coppers for his trouble. Billy had
taken too much punching that night and on ,many
other nights, and, lobking morosely at his “cut,”
he uttered hoarse cries of fury and threatened to
start the disturbance all over again. He sub-
sided all of a sudden, and during the rest of the
ceremony talked quite pleasantly, recounting
how he had once put every penny he had into
the arrangements for a mill at Orange (N.S.W.),
only to be robbed of his crowd by the Rev.
Dill Macky, the Protestant champion of the
period, always in training and a great “draw”
everywhere for his contest with the Pope. Many
years afterwards I heard the younger Billy
McKell speak in the Sydney Town Hall, droning
the familiar platitudes of flat, stale, unreasoning
Laborism. I am sure Uncle Billy would have
made a much more interesting Governor-
General, but no one ever thought of nominating
him.
* * $ m
“Findy” :* Few Army practices caused
more resentment than the kit inspection
which under the thin guise qf a routine
check was turned on whenever a serious
theft was reported in a unit. It deceived
no one and it recovered nothing, as the
thief was never stupid enough to conceal
his booty in his gear. Worst example I
recall occurred when the unit was on
manoeuvres 50 miles away from the camp.
Loss was reported of a considerable sum
from regimental funds. Before the news
got rfround a muster parade with full kit
was called and every man’s gear was
carefully searched, with the usual result.
While we were repacking our possessions
a truck arrived from H.Q. and oui
stepped Curly, a none too efficient soldier
with a none too clean record. The officer
conducting the search at once swooped
on him and ordered him to unpack his
gear. Curly began to mumble something
about a letter, but his protests only made
the loot, more determined to search him,
and soon Curly’s blankets, clothes and
other possessions were spread out on the
ground and gone through with a fine
tooth comb. After a fruitless search he
was permitted to get a word in and pro-
duced the letter he’d been talking about.
Ii was a message from the adjutant say-
ing that the money had been found back
at H.Q.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: What a pity these quiz-
masters don’t check their answers with
trustworthy authorities! In a recent quiz
listeners were asked to name the country
in which Thomas Bracken, author of “Not
Understood,” was born. The answer
accepted as correct was “New Zealand.”
Bracken was 26 when he went to Maori-
land in 1869, having emigrated to Victoria
from his native Ireland 14 years before.
In another case a competitor was
asked the color of the ribbon of a V.C.
awarded to a member of the Navy.
“Blue” was accepted as the correct
answer. The quizmaster’s reference
“Quick, I Want your answer —‘Yes’ or ‘ no ’I”
book must have been an old one. Faced
with the problem of issuing a third
colored ribbon for the Air Force, it was
decided, in 1918, to cut out the blue
ribbons for the Navy V.C. and issue
crimson ribbons for V.C. winners in all
services,
* * * *
“Ad Rem”: That fruit barrowman who
went through his lottery prize and then
returned to his job (B. 26/2/’47) sug-
gests that there is a human type who will
find his way back to his “rightful”
financial level despite Fortune’s efforts to
elevate him. I was having a drink and a
yarn in a club which sported one-armed
bandits liberally around its bar. Suddenly
the ringing of a bell and a commotion
indicated that an overdue jackpot had
gone off. When the tumult died down
we found that the winner had collected
about eight pounds’-worth of chips.
“Lucky blighter!” muttered my comrade-
in-booze, “Lucky!” put in a barman.
“I’ll bet he’s buying more chips before
half-past five. Not one in ten packs up
when he wins.” Sure enough, before the
stipulated hour the early-afternoon hero
was buying ’em.
* * *
“Marmalade”: In Westralia the
diesel-electriq trains are colored cream
and green. Country dwellers have long
complained that this color-scheme blends
too well with the summer landscape.
Accidents have occurred at remote sid-
ings ; accidents in no way lessened by the
ewe-like bleat of the approaching jugger-
naut. So the Railway Department has
painted the front of the engines in chev-
rons of black and white.
* * * *
“Brid”: I bought a decrepit old
American organ recently for 10s. Its
bellows were torn and only odd notes
sounded, and I decided to turn it into
general utility service. This is what I’ve
got out of it. Blackwood boards were
made up into a bookcase, and wide pine
boards into table tops; narrower
pieces were used as shelves. Carved
brackets —three pairs—fulfil a similar
function on the house walls, and the
springs from the foot-pedal keep the
garden gate closed. Half a gross of
screws found various uses; the flat
soundbox I converted into a tray for
holding odds and ends; and another
section is doing duty as a baby’s feeding
tray. The wooden fingers of the keyboard
were made up into various gadgets for
the children, and the ebony tops of the
keys, cut off and glued, have been turned
into a very modern-looking set of handle-
grips for cupboards. Little odd rollers
and brass pins have gone into the “handy-
man” box to make further toys ; and the
back hinged panelled doors find a home
on a cupboard. The brass reeds I haven’t
found a use for so far; but the stops are
listed for the toy department.
* * sfc
“Horsefeathers”: Salvatore Magaddino
was one of Musso’s empire-carvers. He
was captured in Libya and brought to
Westralia. For many months he helped
relieve the labor shortage in the wheat
country; then last year he was trans-
ferred with others to the Northafm p.-0.-w.
camp to await repatriation. But Salva-
tore wasn’t keen on returning to a
stricken fatherland, so in June he “went
through,” and the provosts couldn’t un-
earth him. Now Salvatore was a
youngster who’d imbibed the Y.M. pre-
cept “Write Home First,” and the sud-
den cessation of his letters woke fear
in the heart of his mother in far-off
Tunis. So the signora wrote imploring
the Army authorities to send news of her
bambino. The press printed her letter.
together with the “gone bush” bambino’s
photograph. A week later the missing
Italian strode into Western Command
H.Q. He carried a copy of the paper, and
identified himself in broken English. He
was returned to custody, to be repatriated
forthwith.
* * * *
“Hamer”: In my salad days, when the
old horse-buses had iron ladders at the
back up which roof-riders climbed, I
saw a drunk rise from his seat, lurch to
the end and step off a bus going at full
speed. He landed on his feet, staggered
about for a moment and then moved off,
missed by inches by the following traffic,
without apparent injury. Had he been
sober he would have tensed to meet the
shock and would probably have been
killed. Again, a man who had been
nursing a parcel of beer while sitting
on the railing above some stone steps
leading down to a restaurant suddenly
unbalanced backwards and crashed down
the steps. A broken neck seemed inevit-
able ; but he was up and reeling away by
the time the ambulance arrived, taking
his beer with him. Like himself, the two
bottles were unbroken.
* * * ♦
“Spasebo”: Flower-growers exploit
Christmas Day, Mothers’ Day and
Father’s Day and other institutions, and
a roaring trade is done on these senti-
mental occasions. None of them, how-
ever, seems to have exploited May Day.
In Paris florists do a brisk business in
red geraniums for revolutionaries and
white ones for counter-revs. There
could be an extra sideline in pink gladioli
for bishops, professors and other fellow-
travellers.
* * * *
“Jayee”: The Yank Air Corps, as a
race, ever had little respect for R/T
silence orders. “The Buster’s” story (B.
26/2/’47) at least gave him a laugh. One
of mine didn’t. Was in one of 12 Balti-
mores lined up for take-off from a P.S.P.
strip in North Italy, and hadn’t taken
much notice of a single Fortress circling
at about 6000 ft. till our V.H.F. silence
was broken by an unmistakable drawl,
“Say, bombardier, those crates down there
look like ours to you?” What made it
frightening \yas that we knew (1) the
Fort’s primary target was cloud-covered ;
(2) one of the alternative targets was a
Jerry field some 50 miles north which
housed JUBB’s; (3) they didn’t know
where the hell they were. If the bom-
bardier got />ut his binoculars we never
found out, but I’ll bet the squadron never
got airborne quicker.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne’s street indenti-
ties, like the city’s picturesque old
buildings, seem to have been trodden
underfoot by the march of progress,
but a few remain. One is the tall,
handsome, bearded patriarch who used
to attend symphony concerts, and
who now solaces himself with cigarette
butts picked up from the pavement.
Recently a citizen engaged him in
conversation when the Old Testament
prophet was pufling at the remains of
a salvaged gasper stuck into a holder. He
carefully detached the butt and dropped
it on the place where it had come from,
“I’m rather surprised to see you dc
that,” said the citizen. “I thought you
collected those things.” “Oh,” said the
old gentleman, “it wouldn’t be charitable
to smoke the butt.”
* * * *
“Puyyaka”: In March, 1847, Robert
Simpson, a 36-year-old Professor of Mid-
wifery, having risked his life several times
in self-experimentation, first introduced
the use of chloroform as an anaesthetic for
surgical and obstetric use. Met at first with
a storm of opposition from many people
who should have known better, its accep-
tance by Queen Victoria for a Royal birth
gained the* day for Simpson and his
splendid work. In the same month was
born, also in Edinburgh, but apparently
without the aid of Professor Simpson’s
discovery, Alexander Graham Bell,
destined to transmit 29 years later at
Salem (Mass.) the first intelligible tele-
phone message in history: “Mr. Watson,
come here, I want you.” It was done
with an old cigar box, two magnets and
200 feet of wire.
* * * *
“Passun”: At our prison-camp one
night Dutch and Australian prisoners
were dragged from their beds, loaded into
trucks and rushed away to help fight a
big fire that had broken out in the town.
The prisoners enjoyed the most success-
ful time of sabotage in their experience.
With Chinese and Japanese yelling and
tearing about in complete disorganisation
the boys found themselves at the hottest
end of a bucket brigade. For the sake
of appearance and self-preservation the
water-thrower went through the motions
of throwing liquid from his empty bucket
into the flames before passing it on to
his mates for delayed refill. With the
fire spreading rapidly as a result of their
labor the prisoners were ordered to tear
down the flimsy huts in the path of the
flames. Given this opportunity for split-
ting up, they took full advantage of the
new strategy. Soon fresh outbreaks were
reported from impossible points. How-
ever, the fun was over ; the Japs, shamed
and afraid to lose face, bundled the
prisoners back to camp. Strangely
enough, inside a few hours the fire was
under control. We were helpless with
laughter when Jap H.Q. put the camp
on double rations for 48 hours as a
reward for the night’s devilment.
* * * •
“Mich”: One of the biggest gaffes in
Australian journalism is recalled by the
cabled announcement of the death of the
Bishop of Lincoln. About 40 years ago
the result of the big English flat race
the Lincolnshire Handicap was cabled to
Australia thus: “Lincoln —Ob Dean
Swift Roseate Dawn.” A cable editor
took Ob to mean “obituary,” and his
news item read: “Lincoln: The death is
announced of Dean Swift, the celebrated
author of Roseate Dawn.”
* * * *
“Simon”: That Digger and his snifter
sheila whose abo blood was hardly
noticeable ’cept for her nose (B. 5/3/’47)
reminded me of Dan O’Connor. The
N.S.W. Government of the day sent him
out west where a short extension of the
railway was being opened. The new
terminus was a spot that in earlier days
depended entirely on the gins for
domestic help. This was Dan’s speech at
the banquet: “Mr- Mayor, a week ago
I was at the Melbourne Cup and there
I saw twenty thousand of the most beauti-
ful women that ever gladdened the vision
of man. The ladies round your festive
board remind me of that never-to-be-
forgotten scene at Flemington, and they
are inferior to them in numbers alone,
sir, never in beauty!” Recounting his
speech afterwards with a foot on the brass
rail he said “It takes an Irishman to say
that to a lot of half-castes.”
EXIT CRICKET.
“Dr. Evatt said that the tour of the English
cricketers had been a great success. The result
was not important.”
They hauled the boodle in by stacks, if that can
be inferred
As the most telling mode whereby success is
registered.
Undue importance to Jesuits is doubtless oft
attached,
Still, one may wish the sides had been a trifle
better matched.
No jolts or jars, no bodyline anfractuosities
Disturbed our mimic warfare with the chaps
from overseas.
No rift within the lute occurred to mar the
tranquil scene
As in the devastating days of Larwood and
Jardine.
Still, as an ageing cricket fan, may I express a
doubt
Whether there aren’t a lot of things that we
could do without
When modern willow-wielders deal with googlies
and with bumpers
As they were dealt with long ago by W.Gs. and
Trumpers.
The hordes of cricket chroniclers, the crowds
of inky blokes
Who cling to Tests like vines to elms or mistle-
toe to oaks,
And blare or bray their views abroad for all
the world to note,
For all their would-be helpfulness, how oft they
get one’s goat!
They tell you, quite a few of ’em, without the
least demur
Where balls are pitched and when in their
opinion umpires err.
And ever on the radio, in proof of former
fames,
How lavishly they levy on each others’ Christian
names!
Well, there are other rubbers left, to win who-
ever can.
This one at least I’ll say was lost before it ever
began.
Meanwhile to me, on cricket’s cranks and quips
while quidnuncs buzz,
A score-sheet gives a truer view than all their
blither does.
N.S.W.
TV THE R.


“Zake”: For those who at dalliance
play, especially married men who elbow-
steer their “fairies” around the city,
street-photographers can be a menace, as
one Sydney Lothario discovered when a
street photo, was put forward as evidence
of his faithlessness. ’ He and his girl
friend happened to be caught by the
camera passing in the background as a
shot was taken. Unfortunately for him
the chief subject of the snap was his
sister-in-law, who recognised him in the
print. A simpler trap which has brought
more than one to the Divorce Court is
the tram ticket. An errant husband care-
lessly shoves two tram tickets in his
pocket. His wife finds them. Suspicious,
she asks him with studied carelessness
where he’s been in the tram, seeing that
he travels to work by train or ferry. He
cooks up a story which is subsequently
blown out by a visit to the tramway
authorities, who from the number can
determine on what line and approxi-
mately what hour the tickets were bought.
* * * *
“Melbn”: The anticipated 25,000
didn’t turn up for the Labor Day pro-
cession in Melbourne, possibly because it
was a fine day for the beaches, but 5000
marched before a crowd of 40,000 which
became demonstrative only twice
—once when the pipers passed and again
when a streamlined parlor-car, headed
by a 1904 model to show the march of
modern progress, broke down and had to
be withdrawn, while the old flivver tri-
umphantly stuttered to its destination.
When I was a boy and the solemn func-
tion was called the Eight Hours Day
Procession, we used to tootle off to the
city confidently expecting to come home
loaded with sufficient “samples” to re-
plenish the home larder for at least six
months. Nothing was given away this
year except advice —somewhat crudely
expressed as in the slogan of one banner
“Bomb the Aborigines: It Is Kinder Iban
the Rocket Tests.”
* * * *
The carrying of delec-
tables for mess shivoos (B. 19/3/’47)
was a common occurrence with R.A.A.F.
aircraft. .When the R.A.A.F. shifted its
North-West Area H.Q. from the 57-Mile
to Darwin it turned on a slap-up ding
and despatched a Liberator to Melbourne
“Wait a bit, Mr. Doolan — here's a cushion to kneel on:'
for the finer lines of food and drink. I
doubt whether an impending Jap raid
could have caused more commotion
than did the Lib.’s temporary ground-
ing at Alice Springs on the way
back to Darwin. But the palm
for strange cargoes should go to Squad-
ron-Leader Clyde Fenton (otherwise
known as the N.T.’s Flying Doctor), who
commanded No. 6 Communications Unit,
and commanded it very well. Known as
Fenton’s Flying Freighters or, because
“the Doc” implemented some very sound
ideas of his own, as Fenton’s Independent
Air Force, the unit consisted of a very
mixed bag of aircraft, from Tiger Moths,
Walruses and D.H. 84s to Ansons, Vul-
tees, Beauforts, a Beaufighter and
Lodestar. Its job was to carry sup-
plies and entertainment in the way of
mail, books, films, projectors, etc., to all
the R.A.A.F.’s outlying units in the
N.T. and to bring mail, stretcher
cases and all varieties of cargo from
fighter pilots forced to bale out to sick
boongs. When they had time and room
the pilots also brought in other inter-
esting things—beer from Broome, big
red crabs from Bathurst Island, geese
from Peron Island, oysters from Trus-
cott —which made a night in the Comm.
Unit’s mess a thing to be attended, even
if it meant a cross-country hike to get
there.
# * * *
“Frank Mauri”: On the Burma-Siam
railway p.-0.-w. were unloading Jap
stores from one train and carrying them
across the broken bridge to another.
Japanese troops, in poor shape, were
moving the other way. They were com-
pletely ignored by the Korean guards
over us. Two of our boys, carrying a
large basket of vegetables, were ap-
proached by a wounded Japanese officer.
In very correct English he asked politely
“Would you mind if I took one of those
little pumpkins? We have had no food
for four days.” The Diggers dropped the
heavy basket. “Take the blanky lot,
mate, they’re not ours,” they said.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: Once upon a time,
when there was considerable rivalry be-
tween R.A.F. and U.S. aircrews and even
greater rivalry between crews of Libera-
tors and Lancasters, an American Lib.
and a R.A.F. Lane, happened to be stag-
ing through Cocos from Australia
to India. It was the third time the
Americans had made the hop and they
were well, they were talking rather
freely about themselves, their Lib. and the
time they would'make. They were still
talking when they climbed into their 824,
what time the Lane, stood by the strip
while its crew, complete with long blond
soupstrainers, lounged around the Opera-
tions Room languidly drinking tea. As
soon as the Lib. was out of sight the
R.A.F. types strolled over to their Lane,
and, in due course, were. airborne for
India. I didn’t witness the respective
landings, but it is reported by a most
reliable authority that \yhen the Ameri-
can crew climbed out of their Lib, they
were slightly surprised to see the Lane,
parked beside the strip while its crew,
complete with long blond soupstrainers,
were lounging around the Operations
Room languidly drinking tea.
SR * * *
“Orion”: Hobart awoke from its
sleep the other morning after a wet night
to find it had rained elephants. One
saw two of them crash
through his front fence; they made for
the backyard, decimated the vegetables
with a swift passage or two, wrenched off
a water standard and collected with hoots
of delight the washing from the clothes-
line. The last item appears to have in-
terested the visitors particularly. They
promptly bore down partition fences on
either side, having spied more washing,
and then, attracted by the reflection in a
window-pane and persuaded that another
brother was beyond it, one of them oblite-
rated the kitchen window, reached inside
and swept crockery, food and saucepans
to the floor. By this time circus attend-
ants had followed the track of devastation
through the fence of the university, past
water-spouts where garden taps had once
stood, past the busted gateway of the
Teachers’ College, and, at the end of the
chase, used appropriate elephant langu-
age to stop the fun. They explained that
the rain had loosened the iron stakes that
had tethered their charges, and assured
the unhappy householders that the trees
to which the delinquents would be tied
up in future would be well selected.
“I wish she'd speed it up — it's more like a funeral .”
“Salmon Gums”: Looking back from
the dreary Westralian election campaign
to the days when elections were considered
important, I reviewed some of the more
notable characters who relieved the
tedium of our township. One candi-
date conducted his meetings from
the back of a flighty mare, first gaining
an audience in some open field by a skil-
ful exhibition of boomerang-throwing.
He was a tough customer and he’d have
looked, and possibly felt, far more at
home in the councils of an aboriginal
tribe than in the drowsy atmosphere of
the House. He polled well. * And there
was Brunton, the Peanut King. Brunton
had some oratorial gifts and a sense of
humor. So his meetings were well
attended, and on one occasion he came
second in a field of three. The third
man, a dentist, gave up politics in disgust
at having been beaten by a man who
was actually in gaol on polling day.
Many people voted for these oddities on
the grounds that their return might inject
life into Parliament. No one would be
so optimistic now.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The Como (W.A.)
murder case (B. 26/2/’47) might never
have come to Court but for a remarkable
coincidence. The body of Stella Farns-
worth, weighted with a cement slab, was
disturbed and brought to the surface at
the Como jetty by the propeller of the
Emerald, Perth’s ocean-going pleasure
boat and probably the only cruft on the
river capable of doing the job. And the
Emerald only touches at Como once in
a blue moon.
* * * *
“Eurfcka”: Another historic Australian
building is in danger of demolition. This
time it is the Parramatta
home of three generations of doctors,
built of red bricks by convicts 126 years
ago. Visitors can still see built into the
northern wall the eight of diamonds, the
story concerning which is that it com-
memorates a game of cards at the old
Woolpack Inn in which ex-convict John
Hodges won £lOOO, with which he bud!
Brislington. Whether the story is true
or false the building is a capital example
of the workmanship of the early convicts,
well worthy of preservation.
* * * #
“Ceg”: “Listening Insect” (B. 5/ 3 / ’47)
doubts whether there are 20 thoroughly
bad swear words in the English, language.
At Cobham Hall, in Kent, seat of the
Earl of Damley, where hundreds of Aus-
tralian officers of World War I spent their
convalescence, there is a book bound in
white leather giving a complete list. It
was printed for private circulation in a
limited edition. Many Aussies who
thought they were pretty good at swear-
ing found that they had touched only the
fringe of the subject. In addition to the
words the book gave • definitions and
sources, and it was surprising to find what
a number of oaths had a religious origin.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Shipping re-
porters seem to have died out with the
war, when waterfront subjects were taboo.
They have been succeeded by a breed
that writes about vessels being delayed by
“rolling seas” and waves that “dash
aboard,” and is far more interested in
passengers (especially lady passengers)
than in ships, ports and cargoes. An ex-
ception was a billboard story by a Mel-
bourne daily: “Ketch Missing in Bay.”
The “200-ton” ketch Defender had
entered the bay three days previously in
heavy easterly weather and had “dis-
appeared.” The same day another daily
reported the ketch to be sheltering at the
Swan Bay mine depot, except Corio
Bay the only anchorage in an easterly
between the Heads and the Yarra.
Although the missing ketch was a
front-page story, and the Defender the
Yarra’s best-known ketch, nothing was
said of her colorful career —holder of the
blue ribbon for the fastest Bass Strait
crossing, and ashore and on fire too many
times to count. Instead they multiplied
her tonnage by three to make the
story look important. Why, 20 years
ago a Melbourne daily reported
the Defender hove-to in Bass Strait
“under a close-reefed mast,” and the
waterfront was talking of it for months
afterwards!
* * * *
“Niloc”; Never have I witnessed so
many lineal feet of human tongue hang-
ing limply downwards as at Canungra
(Queensland), where Diggers did the 28
days’ “Jungle Training Course” designed
to prove to the individual that, even
though he might think he was dead from
exhaustion, he couldn’t be —provided he
could still hear the ex - wrestler
sarge telling him to “keep doubling! ”
Whoever named Canungra’s paper
“Tonic” (B. 26/2/’47) must have had a
classical sense of humor, and if “Ex-
C.G.” intends to visit the town on the
strength of its publication’s name, he will
probably find unhappily that the hills
are still echoing the million grunts and
sighs uttered there during the war. A
more cheerful place for him to spend a
holiday, where every morning he could
read the local rag knowing confidently
that it held the belt for strangely chris-
tened newspapers, would be Linn, Mis-
souri (U.S.A.); its journal—“ The Un-
terrified Democrat.”
♦ * * *
“Tarry Rope”: My Sunday doze-pro-
dtfcer mentioned that the present passage
money to N.Z. from Sydney is £2O single
and that Ben Fuller had crossed over at
the start of his Australian career at a
cost of ss. That was, of course, at the
height of the' freight-and-fare war for
the command of the Tasman trade. The
low price was for steerage passages. The
Thames goldfields rush being at its
height, after the rich Waihi strike,
goldseekers packed the accommodation ;
there were, besides, shearers who regularly
included N.Z. in their round and hus-
bands getting away from their wives for
safety. The official lowest fare was 10s.;
but many got over for less. H.P.
and Union boats lay at neighboring
wharves ; ships of both firms sailed on the
same day, and the companies actually
had touts out to buttonhole and capture
intending passengers. They were quite
prepared to sink the price rather than let
the rival firm make a catch. An old-
time purser tells of what happened to a
batch of five. Two paid the ten bob with-
out question ; one, arguing the point, got
a cut of five bob ; the others, scenting a
chance of a further saving, stood out, and
finally paid 2s. 6s. each. That probably
was the low-water level.
A “LABOR” TRAIT.
Once “Labor” is in office firmly stabled
You’ll note how rapidly it finds new roles
For party hacks whose fate Was to be labelled
“Not Wanted” at the polls.
True charity, some hold. Yet doubt arises
Whether it’s logical to style it thus,
This handing out of consolation prizes
To those who’ve missed the bus.
Will they make good as more exalted actors
In steadier jobs? Well, only time can say.
But if they don’t, it’s not their benefactors
But all of us who’ll pay.
The roundest pegs in squarest holes are battered,
The squarest pegs forced in the roundest
holes,
Till you may guess the only thing that mattered
Was these were loyal souls.
Is this the way, regardless of reliance
On things like training, diplomats are made,
Or chaps to render ‘ services to science
And stimulus to trade?
Say, brother, would you claim to be selected
As ideal candidate for place and pelf
Merely because electors had elected
To shove you on the shelf?
No? Well, there’s quite a few to furnish witness
That ouster from a Parliamentary berth,
When there’s some cushier job for requisiteness,
Counts as conclusive evidence of fitness
And guarantee of worth.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


mm*
mm
t t
u.
1
ANY COUNTRY HOME CAN
HAVE A CITY KITCHEN
YW
The AGA Cooker brings all the comforts and conven
iences of city cooking to country homes. Modern
appearance; sparkling "easy-clean" baked enamel
finish; special insulation—keeps kitchens cool—delicious
cooking by scientific stored heat in roomy ovens and
the convenience of having the AGA operating con-
tinuously at no extra cost.
Economical, too! Country owners have proved that fuel
costs are less than cost of wood even when drawn
from their own properties. Every AGA is British made
and carries a double guarantee.
1. It is guaranteed not to burn more than an amazingly
small specified quantity of fuel per annum.
2. It is guaranteed against faulty material or workman-
ship for ten (10) years.
If unable to see the AGA in operation in our showroom
write for catalogue-showing the complete range of
models.
AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St.. Sydney.
432 Bourke St.. Melbourne.
Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert
Sts., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G.
Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
I
«CtLa
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
/
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE SERVICE MAN
"These Men!"
“Ek Dum”: Discrimination against
servicemen has entered into and become
rooted in Federal “Labor’s” mean soul.
While the Chifley “Government” has
made provision for lavish attendance pay
for wharflaborers, even when they turn
up at work with a fixed intention to loaf,
it has decided not to pay the 35.-a-day
sustenance for which the surviving
p.-0.-w. from the Eighth Division in
Malaya have fairly asked in consideration
of the ferocious treatment to which they
were subjected in captivity, and to which
many of their mates succumbed.
Men on active service in Australia who
were absent from home a couple of
months received But, as
Mr. Turnbull (himself an Eighth Division
p.-0.-w.). pointed out in the House, men
who were reduced to living skeletons in
Asiatic prison camps on a food allowance
of Is. 2d. per day are denied the equiva-
lent of Australian “sustenance.”
It should be repeated that there were
many p.-0.-w. who did not return because
they died of starvation. There are few
who did return who do not still, 18
months after their release, bear the marks
of privations and disease. Many of them
were kept alive only by the heroic efforts
of outsiders like Dr. Taylor, of Sanda-
kan, who risked their lives to provide
them with money to buy extras, and
“Who gave HIM permission to fish ?”
afterwards suffered torture for their pains.
Hundreds were saved and kept just in
life by the exertions of comrades with
better credit than themselves, who pledged
their resources in Australia in horrible
blackmarkets in order to buy food for
them. On this score one Queensland
grazier has recently paid £2OOO to ghouls
in the dollar-exchange market. Like
others of his noble breed, this man
should be fully recouped for what he
spent.
No Australian force has ever gone
through such an experience as the Eighth
Division and their comrades who became
prisoners of cruel Asiatics. None showed
itself more a credit to its race and coun-
try in adversity. But the most a miser-
able, cold-footed Government can be
persuaded to do for its remains is for
Mr. Chambers to “consider the question
with great sympathy” and pat himself on
the back at the thought that “already a
great deal has been done for these men ;
further payments are not justified.”
“These jnen!” ThiS Army Minister,
fit successor to Mr. Forde, would not
dare to speak like that of the Communist-
led wharfies who, for a fortnight in the
last few weeks, have held up food cargoes
for Britain, or. the Communist-led seamen
who, with the connivance of the “Labor”
Government, refused to go to sea when
Westralia was in deadly danger of in-
vasion without war-time loading on their
pay, and some of whom netted wages of
up to £lBO for a return voyage from
Sydney to Perth, at a time when southern
Australian waters were as safe as “Labor”
politicians in Canberra.
Defence of Canberra.
“Ek Dum”: With rumors current that
compulsory training will be introduced
later in the year, the attitude of the
Prime Minister and his colleagues when-
ever the question is raised is that of the
rabbit,
Questions on defence matters are asked
almost every day Parliament sits. Mostly
they concern some attempt by somebody
to get something back from the Army,
and these are answered fully and en-
thusiastically by Mr, Chambers. So long
as he can show, that he is giving the
electors something, the safety of the
country can look after itself.
One question he answered was about
alleged misuse of Army cars in Mel-
bourne. Mr. Chambers, his voice rising
in pleased excitement, answered that as
all Army vehicles had been reduced in
total number from 100,000 to about 4000,
there could be no misuse.
When Ministers blurt out this sort of
information the foreign snooper sits
hushed less he deter his informer from
telling him more. .
Perhaps, however, snoopers have ceased
to bother about Australia. They realise
that its only real defence at present is
its voice. And the Ministry seems to
realise this also, and to be glad that it
has been proved by experiment that when
it yells for help help will come from
Britain and the United States,
Meanwhile, it is content to allow the
present position to drag on in which it
has an “army” which could dig up a
brigade at a pinch—at least, in a month or
two—and motor-transport equipment of
4000 vehicles in a country of 3,000,000
square miles.
Mr. Chifley was cornered m the House
by Mr. Anthony, who asked whether any
steps were being taken to deal with the
matter of the post-war army. He replied
that a Cabinet sub-committee had been
appointed, but that no country seemea
‘to have reached the stage of knowing
what manpower .would be needed to carry
out its defence under the new conditions.
When the Government found out what
would be needed in Australia it would
do something.
If the Cabinet sub-committee is not
more up to date with its information
than this it might as well retire,
Britain and the United States have
brought down estimates or foreshadowed
estimates which provide jointly for more
than 3,000,000 men in the forces in
1947-48, Russia is providing for the
conscription this year of 7,000,000 men
and women. ~ . .
The U.S.A. is developing protective in-
dustry on a large scale—it recently has
bought the Canadian flashless P.ropeHant
factory whose products mystified the
Japanese when they were used by tne
Royal Navy. New aircraft types have,
since the war, been developed on sucn
a scale that all war-types already are
outmoded. Rocket research is going
ahead and the basic principles of rocket
usage and defence against rockets is well
understood
And in Russia, Britain and the United
States compulsory training is the rule,
All that the advent of th f
and the atom bomb has done—and othe!
explosive weapons just as powerful and
dangerous are on the tapis—has been
to change the need of war preparation
from merely a large trained force
to universally trained peoples, hme h^m*


WHEN THINGS SEEM TOO
BIG
FOR YOU
• ••• ''V' "i <' A y ’' ,s>t x
If '' l ? k 7 : v. O
111
: :
&
n
IT’S TIME FOR A
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
—in fhe smart \i€lO packs.
?maM.
BBWS'i
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FUR
LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM, MAY sth-16th. 1947
This is your first opportunity in seven years to
see your old suppliers in Britain and to meet new ones.
Overseas Buyers are invited to Britain for the
1947 British Industries Fair. It will enable them to
establish personal contact with the makers of the
immense range of United Kingdom goods displayed
in the London (Lighter Industries) and Birmingham
(Hardware & Engineering) Sections of the Fair. The
careful grouping of exhibits will assist buyers to
compare the products, of competing firms with a
minimum of time, trouble and expense. Special
arrangements to suit individual markets can be dis-
cussed and terms and conditions of business settled
direct with the manufacturer, since only the actual
producer or the sole selling agent may exhibit.
For full details of the 1947 Fair apply to the nearest British
Commercial Diplomatic Officer or Consular Officer, or the
British Trade Commissioner in your area.
BRITAIN PRODUCES
THE GOODS
become more than ever before the
essence of the contract in defence.
The crowd at Canberra, however,
apparently fails to see the issue. It will
not jeopardise votes by introducing com-
pulsory training unless the issue is forced
on it. Better risk the country than risk
a few “Labor” seats!
Mr. Truman's Bombshell
“Ek Dum”: The “Peace Conference”
of Foreign Ministers opened in Moscow
with a bag. of surprises. It had been held
in the inconvenient Russian capital on
Russian urging, Soviet policy through-
out the war having been to insist that
those who saved them from immolation
should come to Moscow on all major
occasions.
M. Molotov threw the opening shot
with a verve which showed that he in-
tended to make the race throughout.-. He
demanded that China’s problems should
be included in the discussion, a fact
largely due to the knowledge that all was
not going so well with Communist armies
in the China war as Moscow had bar-
gained for and that the U.S. had given a
check to Moscow plans in Korea.
This was followed by a savage attack
on the British for employing Nazi mili-
tary units —“3,000,000 military members
of the Wehrmacht” —it being inferred
that this was standard practice in all the
Allied zones except Russia’s, in which
hatred of everything Fascist was the
guiding factor. The technique, of course,
was the same as is employed by the Aus-
tralian Communist party —pin the word
“Fascist” on your opponent, any
opponent.
No instances were given. None could
have been. Mr. Bevin calmly replied
that the only Nazi units which still ex-
isted were 80,000 banjo-wielders engaged
in cleaning up bombed cities. He then
read a list of a few of the well-known
Nazis employed in the Russian zone:
Dr. Augustin, designer of the Tiger tank,
now chief of a metal industry depart-
ment ; Dr. Frederick Haase, a former
S.A, Stormtroop leader, who would
almost certainly have been hanged if he
had been in any other zone, now a lead-
ing official in fuel-control at Leipzig ; Dr.
Konze, one of Hitler’s inner group of
economists, in command of a Russian
technical mission, and Franz Frische, an
executive member of the who
is in Moscow on a 15-year contract.
Mr. Marshall stepped in with the re-
mark that he had been disturbed by re-
ports from the Russian zone that former
active Nazis could have themselves
cleared by joining the Russian-sponsored
“Socialist Unity” party.
Nobody said anything about Italy,
where the rolls of Communist leaders
look like a list of Mussolini’s main sur-
viving lieutenants.
Russian Aggression in Flower
While this argument was going on Rus-
sian aggression was at its worst through-
out Eastern Europe. The United States
had protested fruitlessly against brutal
interference with civilian government in
Hungary. In Bulgaria foreign missions
were beset by a rabble Of 'Communist
police. Diplomats were insulted and one
of them —the French Minister —even
assaulted. M. Dmitrov, lately secretary
of the Comintern and for'years boss of
the Australian Communist party, to
which he gave direct orders even while
his German pals were at war with the
British Empire, has been using the wea-
pons of the concentration camp and the
N.K.V.D. with joyous abandon.
Greece continued to be infiltrated with
raiders from Yugoslavia. And the Yugo-
slavs had stopped the U.N.O. Inquiry
Commission, to which the whole U.N.O.
organisation was a consenting party, at
the border.
Russia, via its radio, was complaining
to a wall of silence which surrounded
the disappearance of a posse of its
soldiery lost on the Turkish border. But
it appeared, from what could be gathered
later, that the wanderers were poor
geographers and were very far inside a
vital Turkish military zone. At latest it
seemed that, like “Malbrouck” who went
to the wars, they “will never come back
no more.” But the Turks were earnestly
searching for them.
The Turks have been half mobilised
for months as the result of Russian
threats and bullying.
Enter Mr. Truman
It was at this stage that a hand
stretched across the Pacific and Siberia
and North Europe and fell on M. Molo-
tov’s shoulder. And when he looked
rounded he found it belonged to Mr.
Truman.
What Mr. Truman said was welcome
indeed to the British Commonwealth. It
involved the permanent alignment of the
United States with the United Kingdom
and its Dominions in the protection of
weaker peoples and the assumption of
part of the task which hitherto had fallen
entirely on John Bull’s shoulders.
He asked for an appropriation of 400
million dollars for loans to Greece and
Turkey. And he expressed in straight-
forward terms a policy which appeared
to have the support of the great mapority
of Congress, and of which the principal
features were:
(1) Firm support of Greece,'“the very ex-
istence of which is threatened by several
thousand armed men led by Communists.
(2) Full support for the integrity of
Turkey, which would feel the effects of
Communist subjugation or disappearance of
neighboring Greece, leading to complete
confusion in the Near East.
(3) Immediate help to be on the broadest
basis short of armed intervention, with
civilian and military training personnel sent
to the countries involved, together with sup-
plies and equipment for the Greek army,
and in general all measures necessary to
establish and maintain the Governments
and constitutions of the countries con-
cerned.
(4) Extension of this policy to all small
countries threatened internally by Com-
munist terrorist aggression.
The President said that “free peoples
must be helped to remain Tree from the
advance against' their national integrity
by aggressive movements seeking to im-
pose totalitarian regimes on them.”
The United States, he added, had
spent 341,000,000,000 dollars as its share
of winning the war. It was only com-
monsense that the nation should protect
its investment in world freedom. The
United States had protested against co-
ercion and intimidation, in violation of
the Yalta agreement, in Poland, Rumania
and Bulgaria. •
Tffe President described the*Commun-
ism which his Government had decided
to oppose:
It relies on terror, oppression, a con-
trolled press and radio, lixed elections and
suppression of personal freedoms... .We
cannot allow changes in the status quo in
violation of the United Nations Charter
by such methods of coercion, or by suth
subterfuges as political infiltration We
embark on a serious course.... I would
not recommend it save that the alternative
is much more serious.
Immediately following the Presidential
statement, the House of Commons in
London voted a gift of £19,000,000 to
Greece, plainly for military purposes.
Moscow’s Shock
Moscow was struck dumb for nearly
24 hours, except for the subdued voice
of M: Molotov agreeing to give the num-
ber of German prisoners in Russian
hands and promising to destroy German
warships, in accordance with agreements
under which they should have been de-
stroyed long ago.
And well might Russia have been
struck dumb. The President’s address to
Congress would scarcely have been de-
livered except with assurance of the
backing of the whole of American
opinion worth considering. In effect, it
declared war on world Communism and
Russian expansion. It declared, in effect,
the intention of the United States to be-
come a full partner with Britain, integral
in an Empire of Peace, and it warned
Moscow that Greece, ifurkey and any
other country threatened by it was hence-
forth guaranteed against Russian attack
by infiltration by the two greatest nations
on earth.
The new American policy can only be
a preliminary to further action in the
matter of the Baltic States. And it must
have the most important repercussions
upon U.N.0., if U.S.A. is to survive.
It is clear that Russia cannot now live
long in U.N.O. unless it conforms other-
wise than by lip-service to U.N.O. ideas
and to the policy in which Britain and
the United States are now combined.
When Moscow did speak, through
“Izvestia” and Moscow Radio, it sounded
like a man indignant at having been
put in hospital by a rabbit-bite.* The
blow was the harder to take because
Stalin's confidence that the United States
would never break away from its isola-
tionist policy, even if the rest of the world
went 'Communist, had led him for 20
years to preach the excellence of Uncle
Sam as an example in technocracy and
to play up America as a fairy godfather
during the war, while indulging in sneers
at and libels on Britain.
The speech will have an effect on the
politics of every country surrounding
Russia, particularly the Scandinavian
countries, which more than once have
been compelled to re-orient their policies
in the face of veiled Russian threat and
blackmail.
There can be no doubt that Mr. Tru-
man is in earnest and that his policy will
become American policy. The determin-
ing factor in evolving it has been far
nearer home than the Balkans. It was
framed as a sequel to an exhaustive in-
vestigation —unofficial but with all the
marks of official backing upon it—which
showed the magnitude of Communist
activities in South America and the ex-
tent to which Communism was supported
there by direct Russian effort. And it
was preceded by some very firm U.S.
talking, about the evils of totalitarianism
in Mexico.


/MW*#!
■
,
in
> « -V ' * s* •'. i
- 5 I $' • *>
mHIPi
: : ii
ma mm SI m . \ 5 :? .
S 3&
:: <
■■
‘ -■ ■ : ,
m
3 •■:
sg a
M
m ..
HH
PERSONAL ITEMS
Group-Capt. Deryck W. Kingwell, of
Brisbane, who commands the Liberator
that is making long-distance flights into
the Antarctic to investigate flying condi-
tions, was the youngest Australian to
attain that rank. It came at 27/ King-
well was largely responsible for the ex-
cellent bombing work by R.A.A.F.
squadrons in preparation for the attack
on Labuan. He led the Liberator squad-
rons, and by switching targets kept the
Japs guessing as to the actual point of
attack. One of his squadron commanders
at the time was Russell Bell, commander
of the Duke of Gloucester’s flight, who
flew H.R.H. back to the Old Dart. A
member of the permanent Air Force, he
was awarded a D.S.O. for good work
against the Japs,
Municipal councils seem to be a good
training-ground for Parliamentary candi-
dates in S.A. Four Libs, who won or
regained seats on March 8 have held
office as Mayor. A. R. Moir, back again
for Norwood, which he represented from
1941-44, is Mayor of Kensington and
Norwood ; Baden Pattinson, new member
for Glenelg, is Mayor of that city and
some years ago held the same position in
Maitland on Yorke Peninsula —he was
Assembly member for Y.P. for eight
years and is a former Government Whip ;
E. G. Whittle, who won back Prospect,
his for six years to 1944, has also beep
Prospect’s Mayor, and his connection
with the Council goes back 25 years. F,
T. Perry, of the family engineering con-
cern, sometime Assembly member for
East Torrens and a former Mayor of St.
Peters, is back in Parliament again, this
time in the Legislative Council.
Professor Bernard Heinze stepped off
a plane in Melbourne last week after
having conducted 17 concerts for C.B.C.
Through the virile conductor Canadian
audiences were introduced to the works
of Clive Douglas, Margaret Sutherland,
Robert Hughes, Alfred Hill and other
Australian composers, and now the
Dominion milkos whistle “Waiata Poi”
on their daily round. Heinze’s energy is
astounding. He comes back to the biggest
orchestral season ever contemplated in
Melbourne, and to a new scheme for
childrens’ concerts. The Ormond Profes-
sor of Music wants to see grand opera
produced on the grand scale in Australia.
There is immense enthusiasm for opera in
Canada, though public orchestras aren’t
as handsomely endowed there as they are
here, nor does C.B.C. monopolise the field
as thoroughly as its opposite number
here. Which may or may not be a good
thing.
Returned to Australia to take up the
job of lecturer in English literature at
the University of Melbourne, poet
Michael Thwaites. Victorian Rhodes
Scholar for 1936, Thwaites won the New-
digate Prize with his “Milton Blind”;
the first Australian to carry off the New-
digate. Later he wrote The Jervis
Bay and Other Poems, which attracted
worldwide interest and ran into English
and American editions. From Oxford
he joined the R.N., which gave him the
background for his “Jervis Bay” epic. In
1940 he was awarded the Royal Medal for
poetry in London, porn in Brisbane,
Thwaites was educated at Geelong Gram-
mar and Melbourne Uni. He is 32.
From “spud-barbering” to “scrambled
eggs” was the R.A.A.F. experience of ex-
Group-Captain Hal Harding. In the
Royal Horse Artillery from 1914 to 1923,
Harding passed through the Royal Mili-
tary Academy at Woolwich, and was
commissioned before he was 18. He
served in France, Italy, Greece and
Russia, and was wounded. Coming to
Australia, he joined the R.A.A.F. when
“spud-barbering” at Point Cook was the
first step towards becoming a pilot.
Harding was tops in both departments,
but in 1935 he resigned his commission
to join General Motors-Holdens. Rejoin-
ing when World War II broke out, he
became C.O. at Parkes and Temora,
which became famous as “Harding’s
Country Clubs” because he had ex-
tensive gardens laid out and grew
sufficient vegetables to support the
stations. In 1943, with the “scrambled
eggs” braid of a Grouper on his cap, he
returned to Point Cook as Station Com-
mander ; after war experiences took him
to Manila and Japan. He is now G.M.-H.
Industrial Welfare Officer at Fishermen s
Bend, and on the Vic. executive of the
Air Force Association,
Granted leave of absence before re-
tirfement> Walter Albert Selle has been
R e gj s t rar of Sydney University since
m 4 a membw q£ (he Uni sta£f
. ~ n . ... ..
J™» Born in Albury 64 years ago
“ a Fort-street boy who went back
t 0 j“ s ° ld f„ h ° o 1 *° mathemat cs,
and put m 10 years at it before the Uni.
made him Clerk of Examinations as a
stepping stone to the job of Registrar.
To the Aonsands ot students he has seen
.come and go and whose careers he has
watched from enrolment to graduation
and beyond Sellfe is as much a part of
Sydney University as the Great Hall or
the Main Building itself, and the place
W on’t seem the same without him.
, . , , . - t ,
A second instalment of rocketmen has
an ™= d “ Australia en route to the Long
*»£ LieS -
ver Never i neil 1 . r 1S ~. ;
°™ eral /■ Evetts senior military
ad v«er ‘° the Mims ry of Supply
arK Ac. Ut ir • Fl* e ° L 3F bnpcna
general Stoll in the war, Others are R.
W. Cambridge-trained raathefliati-
? lan > Charles Bayly, armaments designer
fr .°™ “f B ulded Praiftile establishment
at Westcott, S, A, Hunwicks, who has
bee!nworking on airborne rockets, and
W- -V J ' Bntentent who helped to de-
yel°P radar ,« tlma , t ,°. hel P Spitfires
™ *e Battle for Bntaim There is one
Australian-born army officer in the con-
tingent—Lieut.-Colonel J. Caddy,
m n .. ,
Stephen W C Marks, Deputy-Director
9^ osts and Telegraphs m S.A., has been
m some warm spots m the course of his
career in the P.M.G. s department, but
initiation to the service was rather a
Gcdd one - e ll^ e I f an te^gr a ph mes-
at Walhalla (Vic.). It was mid-
Wl ? er ’ then L was snow on the ground,
and young Marks s red uniform was a
tar^e f. r the snowballs of the youth of
tFe dlstr . lGt - This may have acted as a
s P ur > as it wasnt long before he qualified
as , a youngest m Vic-
toria‘, Continuing his studies, he was pio-
moted. engineer, and when the 1914 war
can ] G joined the forces and was sent up
n f °* h m cha ff th f ereGtlon of wireless
lslands ‘. F ° r years
M ar Ls has been associated with the re-
STAMPS AND TELEGRAMS.
organisation of the telegraph service, and
he had a lot to do with the introduction
of automatic teleprinters throughout the
Commonwealth. Before his transfer to
Adelaide he was superintendent engineer
in Queensland.
Melbourne’s parks and gardens now
have the services of 300 men armed
with every modern gadget, but when
James Sherry, just retired after 34 years
as curator of the city’s parks and gardens,
started on the job the scythe was the
only implement provided. The hand of
Sherry can be seen all over the city. He
helped to make the gardens at the Shrine,
the Domain, Royal Park, the Queen Vic-
toria and Alexander and the banks' of the
Yarra. At one time he was one of
Andrew Carnegie’s gardeners in Scotland.
“Ek Dum’s” collection of effete Scots:
Mackinnon of Mackinnon (35th of his line)
just failed to make the century which so many
Highland chieftains attain. His friend Sir Fitz-
roy Maclean, of Duart, did it, and the last
Macquarie chieftain hit 103, after
having served as a lieutenant on
active service at 63. At Harrow
in 1862, McKinnon played cricket
for Kent in the seventies, and took
part in the first Test match of 1878.
He had no record of war service
because he was too old before any
war came along for which British
volunteers were wanted —he was 54
when the South African show
finished. He, however, was a
major in the West Kent Yeomanry.
His last missive, which arrived
almost at the moment of his death,
proved that the Mackinnon line
has not lost its toughness; for he
wrote to tell of a young Australian
kinsman, Captain John Mackinnon,
of the Cameron Highlanders. This
young Australian Mackinnon lost a
foot during the Tobruk campaign,
and, therefore, failed to find him-
self fit for any military service
nearer Britain than Africa after
his convalescence. On his way
thither his ship was torpedoed,
and before fie was rescued he
spent several days on a small raft by
sharks. The Army thought he had had enough,
but he appealed to Sir lan Hamilton as umpire
and was given not out, though for the rest of
the war he had to serve as a brigade major in
Britain. After that he went to Cambridge, and
his ancient chieftain wrote proudly that last
year he had come out not only first in his ex-
aminations but first in the bowling analysis of
his college eleven. His father, incidentally, was
a member of the Victorian Horse Artillery
team selected to compete at the Royal Military
tournament at Islington in 1893.
At Mt. Gambier (S.A.) two citizens
have recently passed the 93rd milestone.
Johnny Locke is probably the only re-
maining personal link with Adam Lindsay
Gordon ; as a small boy, on his pony, he
often accompanied the poet from his
dad’s hotel to “Dingley Dell.” In this
year’s pilgrimage to the poet’s home
Locke made a short speech. The other
oldster, Tommy Dodd, recently decided
to call it a day after 56 years as Odd-
fellows’ branch secretary. He was not
born in the district, but has been there
60 years, having given municipal service
and military service—in the days of the
redcoats. ,
News comes from London of the death
of Major Frank Holmes, the Maoriland
engineer who induced the Sultan of
Bahrein Island, in the Persian Gulf, to
permit him to explore for oil. In the
face of adverse opinions of geologists
Holmes persisted in his boring operations
and “struck it” in 1930. Much more to
the Sultan’s delight was Holmes’s dis-
covery of water during the process.
Standard Oil took over the fields, and
when the bombing of them by the Italians
before America entered the war led to a
protest by Uncle Sam, Musso pleaded
that Bahrein was a British protectorate.
“Colbun”: A Victorian police magi-
strate of long ago, widely known as
“Alphabetical” Conant on account of his
then record number of given names, has
been outclassed by a Central Queensland
elector on the 1946 rolls. “Alphabetical'’
scored Peling Hugh Gough Pigott Stainsby
Conant as full monniker. The northern
victor is Gerard Edward Denis Anthony
Peter Damian O’Sullivan Prenderville,
winning by two whole Christian names
and a total score of 55 letters against 35.
Shortest surnames so far located are Ek,
Ey and Re, of Dutch and Italian origin.
Appointed Deputy Chancellor of the
University of Melbourne, Dr, Leslie Scott
Latham, brother of the Chief Justice of
the High Court. A Scotch College and
Melbourne University product, the doctor
served in Egypt with the A.I.F. in the first
World War, attaining the rank of major.
He was president of the Vic. branch of
the B.M.A. in 1923, is a councillor of the
Royal Australasian College of Physicians
and is the A.M.P.’s chief m.o. Sixty-
eight, he is two years younger than his
brother.
No one should be better qualified to
advise Australian coal authorities on the
dust problem than Professor David Jones,
who, as this caricature by Heth proves,
is walking testimony that it takes more
than food rationing and Arctic weather
WELSH DUSTMAN.
to kill a determined Welshman. Profes-
sor of Mining at Cardiff, he was ap-
pointed Director of Mining Research
in 1939, when coalowners set up a
research lab. Since then he and his
associates have reduced the dust menace
in the coalfields of South Wales by 80
to 90 per cent. —and those coalfields were
the dustiest in Britain. With the adop-
tion of the methods of wet mechanical
cutting and water infusion it is expected
that similar results will be recorded on
other British fields. Professor Jones took
D.Sc. and Ph.D, degrees at Birmingham
University and was senior mining in-
vestigator there before he went to Car-
diff. After his mission in Australia is
completed—he is here under the auspices
of the C.S.I.R. and will visit mines in
every State —he will return to Birming-
ham to take over the Chair of Mining.
Shortly before coming to this country he
was asked to report on Dutch and Bel-
gian coalmines, and as a result of his visit
experts from those countries are now in
South Wales studying his methods.
Into the silence:
At Ashgrove (N.Q.), aged 84, William Stanley
Codings Warren, a Victorian-born resident ot
the Herbert River district for 70 years. A
pioneer grazier and farmer, he bred and raced
some notable steeplechasers.
At Nuriootpa (S.A.), A. A. J. Tonkin, a
country vice-president of the R.S.L. and
manager of the Barmera Community hotel. It
was a sudden affair; he had been selected to go
with Millhouse, K.C., to an Empire meeting
in in June.
In London, David John Gilmour, second son
of the late proprietor of the Southland “Times.
Himself manager of the concern till 1919, he
went to London to represent a group of M.L.
papers, and remained there.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 77, Lawford God-
frey Reeves, owner of Sir George Grey’s his-
toric Mansion House at Kawau Island. Member
of a well-kno'wn Dunedin family, he spent some
time goldmining in South America; then he was
indent agent at Auckland, and afterwards presi-
dent of the Stock Exchange there for two terms.
In Melbourne, Dr. R. E. Weigall, first Aus-
tralian 0.8. E. A member of the R.A.C.V. for
43 years, he met all returning troopships as
president of that motoring organisation. After
retiring from his big surgical practice he be-
came one of Victoria’s leading woodcarvers.
At Jervis Bay, at 59, E. J. Gravestock, im-
presario and theatre man in general. No entre-
preneur brought more distinguished names on to
Australian billboards: Backhaus, Clara Butt,
Levitsky and scores of others. Gravestock
joined J. and N. Tait as concert manager
after coming to Australia with the Quinlan Opera
Co. When Charles Wenman retired he stepped
into his job as general manager for J.C.W.
In Melbourne, at 79, Ernest Horatio Willis,
architect and surveyor. He was one of W. M.
Hughes’s henchmen when that statesman was
forming the Nationalist party in 1916. Mayor
of Prahran during the 1914 war, he was awarded
the 0.8. E. for Red Cross work. With the late
Kingsley Henderson he built the homes at
Victory Place, Armadale.


Missing Friend.
PETER, PLEASE WRITE HAMPSHIRE,
QUINTON.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Cool white and pastel linens were joint
favorites with the many racegoers who
went to Moonee Valley for the Labor
Day meeting, with the printed-silk
frock running them close. Picture
hats were popular, but among the
younger set clusters of flowers did service
for hats. One of the most outstanding
outfits of the day was worn by Mrs. F.
Matthews, whose white-linen pleated
frock was banded, both on skirt and
bodice, with navy-blue linen. Barbara
Sellick and Shirley Watts both chose
pastel-blue frocks cut on tailored lines ;
Barbara’s white straw hat was flower-
trimmed, while Shirley’s burnt-straw was
trimmed with bands of blue, gold and
rose-toned ribbons. Mrs. Mac Falkiner
was in navy linen, her small crownless
navy hat flowered and veiled. Mrs. R.
Smith’s linen suit, in mustard toning, was
worn with a wide brown straw hat and
brown accessories.
Mrs. W. S. Cox, wife of the secretary
of the M.V.R.C., wore a wide-brimmed
white straw banded with black to go with
a frock patterned in black skyscrapers on
a white ground. Mrs. John Quere topped
with a crownless white straw hat a strik-
ing white silk frock patterned in playing
cards. Bunty Lee’s grey frock had cap
sleeves buttoning on the shoulders. Mrs.
Frank Watts chose brown accessories for
her deep cream silk frock, on which were
patterned pale-brown flowers. Hazel
Raff’s hat was very smart. Fashioned of
fine white straw, it was boater in shape
and banded in ribbon and finished with
navy veiling; her tailored frock was ot
blue-and-white patterned crepe. Mrs. R.
Coldham’s pastel-pink frock Was worn
with white accessories ; Mrs. Tom Luxton
wore a burgundy felt hat swathed in veil-
ing in the same shade and carried a
matching bag with her beige frock, pleated
round the neckline and on the edges of
the three-quarter sleeves. Juanita Fendick
tucked a spray of soft pink feathers in
her blonde upswept plaited hair-do.
For her marriage to Kenneth Myer
Prue Boyd chose Christ Church, St. Kilda,
as the venue, for her grandfather, the
late Rev. G. Pennicott, was vicar there
for many years. Prue, or to be more
formal, Prudence Marjorie, is the third
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Boyd,
Chatsworth Park, 8 Tabilk; her bride-
groom, Kenneth Baillieu, is the elder
son of the late Mr. Sidney Myer and of
Mrs. Myer, of Toorak. Rev. E. White
officiated. The bride chose a gown of
opaque cream ninon which was made
with a shirred bodice and square neckline.
The skirt fell in soft folds from the
waistline to form a train. Her fine tulle
veil, of finger-tip length, was surmounted
by a headdress of pearl orange-blossom ;
she carried a sheaf of tuberoses and
gardenias. Jewelled bar brooches, the
gift of the ’groom, were pinned in the
frilled bertha collars which finished the
off-the-shoulder necklines of the frocks
worn by the four bridesmaids —Lysbeth
and Susan Boyd, sisters of the bride,
Marigold Myer, the bridegroom’s sister,
and Anne Baillieu, the bride’s cousin.
The bouffant frocks were of cream angel-
skin patterned in pink, blue and yellow
flowers. Bandeaux of cream velvet
looped ribbon graced their hair; each
carried posies of tuberoses and gardenias
backed with white tulle. Baillieu Myer
was best man, and groomsmen were
Gordon Byron Moore, Ronald Baillieu
and Bruce Matear.
Guests went to Menzies’ for the recep-
tion, where Mrs. Sidney Myer assisted
Mr. and Mrs. Boyd to receive them. Mrs.
Boyd wore a tailored frock of marine-
blue crepe satin, her small matching hat
being trimmed with a chou of feathers.
Color relief was the small posy of pink
rosebuds she pinned in her frock. Mrs.
Sidney Myer was gowned in black chiffon
trimmed with bands of rose and cream
chiffon; her off-the-face black hat was
trimmed with a rose in the same pastel-
pink. Mrs. Norman Myer wore a lovely
bottle-green ensemble with a high-
swathed bottle-green velvet turban which
had a fold of the velvet falling at the
back to the shoulders. Pamela Myer,
who was in a grey-tailored suit featuring
the new pleated skirt, left next day by
flying-boat to England, where she will
study fashions for the next six months.
Mrs. C. Lloyd Jones, of Sydney, wore an
aqua-blue silk frock patterned in white,
her upswept picture hat simply trimmed
with a large pink ribbon bow. The
Fraser lady, smart in black, came with
her daughter Peggy, who was in ice-blue
crepe, the skirt featuring the new peg-
top line. A halo of matching leaves and
flowers set off an attractive ensemble.
Mrs. R. G. Menzies chose a hyacinth-blue
frock over which she wore a tailored
black coat, her small pink hat being
flower trimmed. Mrs. Everard Baillieu
wore a black crepe-tailored frock with
small shell-pink hat of feathers covered
with a fine brown veiling on which were
pink chenille dots.
Muriel Stevens (in private life Mrs.
Kett) came to Australia 25 years ago
to be married, having met her future
husband in her native England. Although
she has eschewed the professional stage —
home-life has kept her too busy for that
—she has created many parts in amateur
theatricals. In the current Melbourne
Little Theatre’s play. “House of Regrets,”
she was chosen to play the role of
Madame Natalie Carlovna Krohne.
Muriel is also the possessor of a fine
singing voice. She is cousin to that great
oratorio singer Horace Stevens. Photo,
by Ronald Esler.
A very live body is the Ladies’ Council
of the Opportunity Clubs in Victoria.
Their latest venture is a garden fete, which
is to be held at the home of Mrs. F. D.
Brockhoff, in Queens-road, Melbourne,
next Saturday. All the proceeds will be
devoted to the foundation of a holiday
house for girls. The Opportunity Clubs
provide all types of recreation for boys
and girls who live in closely-populated
suburbs. The boys spend holidays on
the farm property at Camp Mailer, Nar-
bethong. The girls having nowhere to
go for a break from city life, the Council
decided to sponsor this urgent need.
Features of the miscellaneous stalls,
which are being organised by Mesdames
V. Morehead and S. H. Henderson, will
be the rag dolls and the babies’ clothes.
Well-known artist and lecturer Stephanie
Taylor will be in charge of the oppor-
tunity bowl, and there will be jams, pro-
duce, cakes, sweets, flowers, fancy goods
and soft drinks for all. Lois Savage
is the president of the Ladies’ Council
and Mrs. V. A. Dartnell the hon. sec.
Miss Ella Shields was guest-of-honor
at an informal late-afternoon party given
by Mrs. D. W. Reddan, at her South
Yarra home. Ella, who gave many in-
teresting anecdotes . about well-known
theatrical personalities whom she has met
in many parts of the world since she was
here eight years ago, was chic in a black
georgette frock which featured soft black
lace ruffles at the high neckline. Her
high-crowned hat of black felt had a dash-
ing cockade of black ostrich feathers set
at the side. Mrs. Reddan received her
guests wearing a pastel-blue romaine
frock with white beading on the shoulders
and the upper part of the sleeves.
Sung in English and without benefit
of stage effects and costume the A.B.C.
Melbourne Orchestra and the Royal Mel-
bourne Philharmonic Choir under the
direction of Joseph Post presented a con-
cert version of “Aida” in the Melbourne
Town Hall. Sylvia Fisher sang “Aida” in
a gown of soft delphinium-blue, the
bodice lavishly trimmed with silver em-
broideries. Wilma Whitney, as Amneris,
chose a graceful white crepe gown em-
broidered in gold sequins. Sylvia Mac-
Pherson as the High Priestess was gowned
in a flowing ice-blue crepe frock. Other
soloists were William Herbert, Fred
Collier and William Crougey. In the
audience were noted singer Joyce
Macartney, in a beech-brown ensemble,
her matching coat featuring a collar of
beige fox; June Richardson, smart in
black; Gay Mcllvogue, contrasting hep
black frock with a small natural straw hat
trimmed with burgundy ribbon ; Kathleen
Furlong, silver foxes worn with her black
frock and small black, hat; and Mavis
Hotmer, whose black taffeta frock had
fine lace forming the yoke and sleeves.
From Sydney
The wife of the Governor of N.S.W.,
Lieut.-General John Northcott, was the
guest «of the Society of Women Writers
last Thursday.. In coming to the lunch
Mrs. Northcott was following the tradi-
tion of all previous Governors’ wives
since the society’s beginnings. The rooms
at the Chelsea were packed with women
writers and friends who nibbled the sand-
wich and savory of the present-day “hard
to get service” lunch. The flowers
brought by Mrs. Lister of “Little Round
House” fame glowed with the rich shades
of autumn, and behind the top table
decorations Northcott’s turquoise-
blue frock had a cool, lagoon-like quality.
Mrs. Northcott made no speech, but
daughter Marjorie, who came with her,
gave interesting details of her life in the
A.A.M.W.S. when she was at Ita Jima.
She was struck, as is every visitor to
Japan, with the intensive cultivation —the
terraced hillsides are set with vege-
tables and fruits. Incidentally, she con-
siders the Japanese women superior to the
men. The party was easy and informal.
Mrs. Northcott met and talked to each
guest, and had a special word with Mrs.
Ivy Moore, who made the speech in
reply. Among the treasures in Mrs.
Moore’s handbag was a Christmas card
from Queen Mary—a garden scene. A
great welcome met convalescing Marjorie
Quinn, in town for the first time for over
a year ; Mrs. W. Holman is also just off
the sick-list. Secretary Etta Cowan, as
usual, had done a good job.
About 1000 U.S. sailors were let loose
on Sydney during the week-end, and if
some of those boys got into hot water —
well, who could blame them, after the
long freeze they endured down the South
Pole way? Saturday and Sunday were
nice and sunny, too, so the lads of the
U.S. seaplane tender Currituck, the
destroyer Henderson and the tanker
Cacapon got a chance to thaw out still
further. Lots of welcome parties have
been arranged for the officers and the men
of the expedition. Rear-Admiral Moore
and Mrs. Moore entertained yesterday at
Tresco, and the Bertie Kellys shook cock-
tails for the visitors on the same day.
Tomorrow the Governor, Lieut.-General
Northcott, will entertain’ Captain C. A.
Bond and his officers at a late-afternoon
reception at Government House.
Joseph L. Hollingworth and James
D. Eason, of the Byrd Antarctic expedi-
tion, were not 24 hours in Sydney when
they were hurled to death in a motor-car
accident. Sydney is still sad over the
fate of these two lads, the elder 24, the
younger 19, and sympathy goes out from
every corner of Australia to their families
in America. The accident happened in
Edgecliff-road, Woollahra, at five in the
afternoon. The driver of the car was
Mr. Ellis (now seriously ill in hospital),
of Dover Heights, who was giving the two
sailors a lift from Bondi to the city. The
bodies of the two Americans are being
taken back to their own land for burial.
New arrivals in Maoriland from Aus-
tralia are Major-General J. J. Murray and
his family. He has gone to Enzed as Trade
Commissioner for Australia. This is a
photograph of Mrs. Murray, -taken just
before she left Sydney. Norton Trevaire
studios.
One housewife in the audience at the
A.B.C. version of “The Barber of Seville”
had her own view on why it wasn’t
give in opera form. “Couldn’t be done,
my dear. Where would they get all the
towels for Figaro at the present coupon
rating?” Anyway, presented in concert
form, “The Barber” gave a lot of listeners
the pip—they thought most of the gaiety
had been squeezed out of it. Still, the
music remained. The solo and chorus work
were good, and the orchestra led by
Farnworth Hall did effective work. The
two girls in the piece, Rene Goossens
and Heather Kinnaird, put a bit of dazzle
on the stage with their dressing. Rene,
who was Rosina, wore cherry-red lame
and a long string of pearls, and Heather,
as the housekeeper Berta, wore black
taffetas, thickly embroidered in sequins.
The skirt was bouffant, the sleeves were
tiny puffs, and right on the top of her
head she wore a black velvet bow.
The King was in the counting house
Washing out his shirt,
The Queen was in the parlor
Sweeping up the dirt,
The maid was in the garden
Eating bread and honey,
And listening to a neighbor
Who was offering her more money!
Mrs. Bertie Kelly quoted the above as
an example of how present conditions
are affecting even our nursery rhymes
when she was hostess at a lunch discuss-
ing the appeal for a Maternity Hospital
wing at St. Vincent’s. The young
mother, with her extra burden of
domestic duties and shopping difficulties,
needs all the comfort and help we
can give—and well-equipped maternity
hospitals are very vital to the health
of mother and child. Mrs. Kelly ought
to know sometliing about the subject—
she has been working on the committees
of the Women’s Hospital, Crown-street,
and St. Vincent’s for more than 40 years.
The lunch was in the Pickwick Club
and friends of the Darlinghurst Hospital
filled the top half of the ballroom. An
art union is to be the chief money-
maker for the appeal—first prize a fur-
nished home. In addition there is a long
list of other prizes—jewels, model yachts,
bicycles, and even a carpet. Mrs. Tom
Bateman, Mrs. Duval and Dorise Hill
were among keen committee-wom en
present. Mrs. Phyllis Bourke is the art
union organiser.
Last.week was a sad one for J. C.
Williamson’s Harald Bowden. One of
his first friends in Australia, E. J. Grave-
stock, died in Nowra after a short illness.
Concert-going Sydney of 15 or so years
ago will recall Mr. Gravestock as a
dignified and popular personality in the
concert world. The small Gravestock
girls, who used to come to concerts with
their parents, are now grown up, one
facing marriage and life in America ; the
other makes her home in Maoriland.
Mr. Gravestock for some years past had
been connected with the theatre world
of Melbourne.
Cards are out for the Masque Ball in
aid of the Peter Pan kindergarten. There
hasn’t been a masked ball in Sydney for
some years, so Romano’s should be be-
witched with mystery from half past
eight till midnight on April 8. It doesn’t
say so on the cards, but presumably, fol-
lowing tradition, masks will be off as the
clock strikes twelve. Mrs. Ellis Fielding-
Jones is president of the ball, Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere the organiser—in fact, the
whole list of 'office-bearers is made up of
the best-knowns in Sydney’s social world.
Tonight at the Town Hall soprano
Lidia Paolozzi and pianist Leo Demant
will give a concert of grand-opera num-
bers and Neapolitan folk songs and
modern compositions of Spain, Italy,
France, Russia and Sweden.
The last fortnight or so has been a
round of parties for the Max Munros,
of Killara. Max, who is on the admini-
strative side of the Commonwealth Bank,
has been transferred to Melbourne. He
flies there this* week, and she follows as
soon as an expected exchange of homes
is finalised.' The Ernest Salengers, of
Killara (Mrs. Munro’s parents), gave a
party of great dimensions last Friday
evening to speed the parting ones.
Mrs. Orsen Nielson, wife of the new
Consul-General for U.S. in Sydney, was
the guest of honor of the Australian
American Movement last Thursday.
Sydney is yet another of the world’s big
cities in which the Nielsons have made
their home. He was attached to the
American Embassy in Oslo, Norway, and
was Consul-General in Munich. On the
menu was a special American dish as
compliment to the guest.
Well-known photographer Noel Ruble
is showing a collection of his paintings
and drawings in the Grosvenor Galleries,
219 George-street.
Up in her studio in Paling’s last Thurs-
day night Frances Scully gave an unusual
ballet party. It was enlightening because
with a group of her successful students
she showed the shaping of a ballerina
literally step by step, movement by move-
ment. This is the technique of the dance,
and when a girl is perfect in it she can
get her R.A. London certificate, but she
has to go further. She has to prove
herself a dancer before she gets the
coveted red seal on the diploma. To the
lay mind the difference would seem to
be that between being a craftsman and
a creative artist.
Anyway the young girls with their
delicately poised hands and slender limbs
pleased a company of ballet enthusiasts,
sculptor Dr. Fleischmann and Professor
R. E. R. Stout among them. The night
was airless and humid, and the sylphs
visibly melted in the fire of their exertions,
but their elegant skirts stood up fresh and
crisp to the ordeal. Kathleen Danetree,
of London, and Frances Scully shared
the duties of Mistress of Ceremonies.
There was one lone lad —a Queenslander
—among the dancers.


The
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
invites your discussion
of any matters affecting Wills, Executor - -
ship. Trusteeship and Estate Manage-
ment. With over sixty years of
experience, The Union Trustee offers
specialised knowledge in all such
matters. Its comprehensive organisation
ensures permanent, competent and sym-
pathetic administration, in complete
confidence. Charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance,
1102
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885 s
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J- C : Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Viae-Chairman) •
bir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay,
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
/IT- ?? n ; Sir F ei H y Braddon, K - B - E - (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(\ ice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l c • A E Heath
c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k’c ,‘m l.c.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, klc.b. cmg nso vn rru n ‘
J. W. Flelcher 0.. . (A,-fchair™„'f i'
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan. ’
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager; C. d"WrmW
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street-E N Tobst
TOOWOOMBA. Margaret Street-J. C.'Vidgln
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitaroy Street-A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
The ''Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ẁ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
r - Dividends N
Year, Pref. Towards De-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. Reserves, flcit.f
Added intangibles, £846 .. .. 306,739
’39..389,099 48,293 6 p.c.= 241,870 98,936 207,803
Added intangibles, £12,947 .. 220,750
’40..404,491 50,000 6 p.c.= 242,n8J 112,373 108,377
Added rights, etc., £163 .. •.. 108,540
’41..354,981 50,000 ’5 p.c.= 213,9401 91,041 17,499
Rights, etc., disappear, £lBO .. 17,319
Reserves.!
’42..376,788 50,000 6 p.c.= 224,6371 102,151 84,832
Added intangibles, £l2B .. .. 84,704
From inner reserves, £1843 .. 86,547
’43..394,616 50,000 5 p.c.= 235,8691 108,747 195,294
Unexplained additions .. £ 198 1
From inner reserves, -£lO7 .. ( 10 .
Intangibles reduced, £B4 .. f ’ ‘
, Outside equity bought, £B4 .. ]
’44..391,517 50,000 6 p.c.= 247,662 93,855 289,622
Net reductions reserves .. £294 ) _ aQ _
Intangibles reduced .. £36) 489,rft>4
’45..308,698 50,000 4* p.c.= 238,839 19,859 309,223
Net reduction reserves, £lB,OOB ) OQ ,
Added to intangibles .. £179 J
’46..413,302 50,000 5 p.c.= 272,662 90,640 381,676
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. t Deducting
intangibles (now £653,505). 1 Paid in scrip.
This big manufacturer of heavy chemi-
cals is an offshoot of Imperial Chemical
Industries (Eng.), which owns most of
the £5,453,239 of ord. capital. Others on
the ord. register include leading Aus-
tralian industrialists, such as 8.H.P.,
A.C.1., the big mining cos. at the Barrier,
Electrolytic Zinc and Commonwealth
Fertilisers. The million of pref. capital,
carrying a cumulative 5 p.c., was put up
by the Australian public at the end of
1938 to help finance expansion, includ-
ing establishment of a big alkali plant
operated by a subsidiary at Osborne!
(S. Aus.).
With its team of chemists, metallurgists,
engineers and others the co. provided
Australia with the chemical sinews of
war, which basically are those of peace,
too. So the group has become an im-
portant contributor to industrial develop-
ment, now and in the years ahead. The
policy followed has been that of the
parent. One unit has been added tq an-
other, until today a series of inter-de-
pendent industries has been built up upon
efficiency in research, production and
marketing.
The demand for alkalis has expanded
so rapidly that preparations are now be-
ing made to double output at the Osborne
factory. Here Australia’s requirements of
soda ash and caustic soda are produced
from the treatment of salt, obtained from
evaporation of in beds some
six miles away on the shores of Spencer’s
Gulf. Last term output of ammonium
sulphate on behalf of the Federal Govern-
ment began at the munitions factory at
Albion, and similar production is to
follow at Villawood and Ballarat, all in
Victoria. Several new chemical products
were added to the list of manufacture,
and additional plant was installed for the
purpose. Also, steps are being taken to
mechanise the explosives factory at Deer
Park (Vic.) on lines of the latest practice
overseas.
During the year factory production
was hampered by shortages of coal, raw
materials and manpower, and by an
inter-union dispute which shut down the
explosives factory for nine weeks, and
bumped up mining costs on the Wes-
tralian and other goldfields. Import
supplies were below requirements, too.
However, a hungry market awaited prac-
tically everything the group could turn
out. Sales were a record. Net earnings
sprang £104,604, reaching £413,302, of
which £162,700 (up £12,260) came from
wholly-owned subsidiaries. That wag
after allowing £250,527 (up £48,565) for
taxation and £259,890 (down £24,345) for
depreciation, but excludes an unexplained
reduction of £lB,OOB in reserves. The
£413,302 covered pref. requirements
and 6.6 p.c. on ord. capital as against
4.7 p.c. and 6.9 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. Half a point was added to the
div., making it 5 p.c. again. The £90,640
that remained lifted reserves £381,676 in
excess of intangibles (£653,505), not
treated as an asset herein.
The fundamental weakness in our
economy today is repeated interruptions
of production by frivolous labor disputes.
The general position now is worse than a
year ago. Fuel is scarcer, costs are higher,
and- likely to go higher still, and many
bottlenecks which have been restricting
production of essentials persist. Exhorta-
tion has failed. Time will inevitably prove
that a new social-benefits slicing doesn’t
really mean much when the cake is
smaller.
Continued expansion is the keynote of
balance-sheet figures;
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1988. 1945. 1946.
Paid Capital .. £4,639,409 £6,453,239 £6,453,239
Outside interests* 17,211 17,660
Sundry Creditors. . 271,271 936,985 1,351,009
Taxation, etc. .. 213,247 348,868 389,996
Freeholds, etc. .. | t 1,358,164 1,380,422
Plant, etc. ..) ‘ } 1,811,759 1,714,226
Stocks .. .. 1,090,747 2,453,487 2,746,894
Debtors . . .. 511,987 917,452 1,036,235
Investments . . 857,859 1,209,796 1,495,900
Cash .. .. 1,106,483 563,796 502,265
* Including proportion reserves.
To carry an extra £293,407 of stocks, add
£118,783 to debtors’ balances and
£286,104 to investments the outside debt
was increased by £414,024. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£4,040,289) was £181,606.
The market prices the well-protected
prefs. at 265. 6d., at which figure the yield
is 3.7 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£6 16s. Bd.
Pelaco. Ltd. (Melb.)
t Dividends
A B '
Prefs. Prefs. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5869 12,920
1937.. 16,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
1938.. 17,090 2082 9000 Nil 6008 1,403
3 p.c. Reserves.*
1939.. 21,042 2081 9000 4950 5011 3,608
5 p.c.
1940.. 20,780 2081 4500 8250 5949 9,557
1941.. 16,640 2081 4500 8250 1809 11,366
3 p.c.
1942.. 13,025 2081 4500 4950 1494 12,860
4 p.c.
1943.. 18,046 2081 4500 6600 4865 17,725
1944.. 21,054 2081 4500 6600 7873 25,598
5 p.c.
1945.. 22,771 2080 4500 8250 7941 33,539
6 p.c.
1946.. 25,443 2082 4500 9900 8962 42,500
* After deducting book-value of goodwill (£10,000).
The co., which is in the highly-competi-
tive men’s-wear manufacturing business,
specialises in the production of shirts,
collars, pyjamas, etc. Last year’s profit
is the best since the palmy days of the
early 1920’5, when, with the aid of over-
seas <loan money, Australia set out on
a rake’s progress. For the first time in
the last half-dozen years production was
devoted entirely, or almost entirely, to a
hungry civilian market, which more than
filled the vacuum caused by evaporation
of defence contracts.
Turnover was a record. It would have
been better still had plant been able to
work to capacity. Cotton yarns and
fabrics are in short supply the world
over. Hence the co. was unable to im-
port all the raw materials it needed, and
shortage of female labor, especially in
the younger age groups, and difficulties
associated with Australia’s skeletonl-in-
the-cupboard, coal, further restricted
operations. The cost of materials, labor
and distribution continued to climb, while
selling prices remained controlled. The
Sydney plant, set up a year or so ago to
look after the needs of N. S. Wales and
Queensland, and the units at Frankston
(Vic.), are very helpful in overcoming
some of the co.’s difficulties.
The spring in the year’s gross earnings
was £23,622:
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Gross.. ..£109,493 £66,412 £93,404 £117,026
Exes 88,713 53,387 70,633 91,583
Net .. £20,780 £13,025 £22,771 £25,443
Including an allowance of £5068 (same
as previous term) for depreciation and
whatever was considered necessary for
taxation, exes, took £20,950 of the gain.
The net result (up £2672) was enough to
pay the prefs. their full contract rates and
show JL 1.4 p.c. on the £165,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 9.8, 8.7, 6.9, 3.7
and 6.1 p.c. back to 1941. A point was
added to the div., making it 6.p.c., and
the £8962 that remained lifted reserves
to £42,500 in excess of goodwill (£10,000),
not treated as an asset herein. For the
half-dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1945 profits averaged £18,719, as
against an average of £13,953 for the
preceding six years. The ords. have had
an average of 4.4 p.c. over the last eight
years; for the nine years before that
they went hungry.
As for the outlook, the fight promises to
be one mainly against the inevitable rise
in costs. Just how sharp this rise will be
remains to be seen. The first instalment
has arrived with the lift in the interim
basic wage. Others will come with the
final adjustment of wage rates, including
increases in the margin for skill, and
with introduction of a shorter working
week. At the moment the Australian
economy is artificially protected by pre-
vailing world shortages and high prices,
which are apt to obscure the future con-
sequences of any immediate lift in costs.
Meanwhile, the production of all cotton
goods in Australia is heavily subsidised,
especially in respect of raw materials
from America. The position is one of
concern to both manufacturers and
public. There is little to worry about
so far as demand for finished products
is concerned for some time at any rate.
The high level of the co.’s stocks (up
£47,915 last term) is largely an insurance
against both scarcity of supplies and
rising costs: —•
1940. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Capital .. £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 131,897 73,815 40,638 71,740
Tax provision 14,503 27,472 32,678 41,913
Premises ... 103,571 101,825 98,558 97,469
Plant, etc. .. 46,883 42,023 43,280 41,436
Book debts . . 114,551 30,072 53,167 64,020
Stock.. .. 143,966 177,243 156,104 204,019
Cash, etc. . . 6,556 13,253 15,314 7,134
To meet the outlay on stocks, and carry
an extra £10,853 of book debts, the co.
went outside for an extra £31,102 last
term. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£162,522) was
£11,253.
The £244,736 of capital is in 29,737
7 p.c. A and 50,000 9 p.c. B prefs., all of
£1 each, and 330,000 10s. ords. The
market prices the A’s at 295. 3d. and the
B’s at 335. 3d., at which figures the yield is
4.8 p.c. and 5.4 p.c. respectively. At
13s. 3d. (11s. a year ago) the ords. return
4.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
covbr is £9 13s. 3d. A’s, £5 3s, B’s and
12s. 7d. ords.
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. (Brisbane)
Net To Re-
June Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
' £■ £ £ £
1936.. 19,341 Bjp.Cj= 15,007 4834 11,556
1937.. 19,817 8J„ ~ 15,007 4810 16,366
1938.. 21,822 8i „ ~ 15,007 6815 23,181
1939.. 22,324 8J „ ~15,007 7317 30,498
1940.. 20,063 8| „ ~ 15,0 0 7 50 5 6 35,554
1941.. 18,502 8i „ ~ 15,007 3495 39,049
1942.. 20,120 8i „ ~15,007 5113 44,162
1943.. 25,062 8J „ ~15,007 10,055 54,217
To contingencies account, £10,055.. 44,162
1944.. 34,515 -10 p.c. = 18,009 16,506 60,668
To contingencies account, £5O 00 .. 55,668
1945.. 30,555 10 p.c. = 18,009 12,546 68,214
To contingencies account, £9945 .. 58,269
1946.. 31,184 10 p.c. = 18,008 13,176 71,445
To contingencies account, £lO,OOO .. 61,445
* Excluding depreciation-reserve (now £193,553),
and after deducting book-value of intangibles
( £23,075).
The figures give a somewhat restrained
account of the cojs progress, but it is
apparent that the war-time boom in ice-
cream sales is staying on in Queensland
—in keepihg with the recent experience
of the co.’s Victorian and N.S.W. rela-
tives. In view of Brisbane’s heavy influx
of servicemen (many of them Allies from
ice-cream’s native land), it is not sur-
prising that the co.’s returns improved
markedly between 1942 and 1945, despite
the shortage of materials and Govern-
ment restrictions on supplies to the
civilian market. These hindrances con-
tinued into last term, when service de-
mands ceased. Nevertheless the co. main-
tained output and improved slightly (by
£629) on net profits for 1945. The im-
provement would have been £3500 more
had depreciation allowance (£17,500)
stayed at the 1945 level.
The consistent modesty of the directors
in profit-declarations finds its outlet in
the provisions made for “taxation and
contingencies.” This portmanteau item
—standing now at £234,857, an increase
of £59,802 on 1945, and greater than total
paid capital by £54,771 —presumably
consists in largest part of sums put aside
annually for contingencies, in effect an
internal reserve-fund. Outward contri-
butions to the fund since 1942 account
for only 16.4 p.c. of its actual growth in
that time (£213,665). Depreciation has
also been generously allowed for in the
co.’s 19 years’ existence; the total pro-
vision is now £193,553, or 55.1 p.c. oi


DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
PATENTS, TRADE MARKS,
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GRIFFITH, HASSEL AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNEYS—EST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St., Telephone
SYDNEY, N.S.W. * BX 2649
BRANDAUER3
fRVv
a* 1 -
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You'll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pounds
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You getcon-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3. „
'1 Contractors to Government, Municipal, *1
v Shipping, Banking and Commercial V 9
•j Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
osuixrvA>r
- rjxvn. .
SStVc.. I..***-*
EPS
2 Jackson & O’Sullivan ®
| Pty. Ltd. B
j\ Printers, Paper Merchants X
J Manufacturing Stationers V
\ HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES 1/
/ BRISBANE |
'\ AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I '
il Letterpress & Offset Printers |j
\ Lithographic Printers J)
9 Typographers ©
ft Monotype & Linotype Operators
\ Steel and Copper Engravers I'
S' Copperplate Printers v 5
| Die Stampers, Embossers P
H Photo Process Engravers jj
q Envelope & Carton Manufacturers C
/, Stereotypers v
ft Rubber Stamp Manufacturers n
gj Rulers, Bookbinders, Gold Blockers
Commercial Artists & Illuminators fi
II Advertising Creators and tj
\ Counsellors :: Publishers </
® Engineers ®
ft Systems and Office Equipment
\ Wrappings and Twine t ■
Telegrams and Cables a
a “jACKSUL,” BRISBANE tl
Position Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position of
Assistant Metallurgist by The Raub Australian Gold
Mining' Co., Limited, Malaya. Applicants should
hold University Degree or Diploma from a recognised
Mining School. Experience in Stamp Battery work
is preferable, but not essential. Commencing Salary
£5OO sterling per annum plus living allowances and
free quarters. Fares and reasonable expenses will be
paid to the Mine. The position offers opportunity foi
advancement. Application with references and par-
ticulars of age and marital state to The Secretaries,
CHAS. A. CLARKE & SON, Box 277 D, G.P.0.,
Brisbane.
the purchase cost of freeholds and plant
combined.
From the remaining net declared profits
over the last 10 years (totalling £243,964),
a moderate 62.5 p.c. has been handed out
in divs. The net figure for last term
(£31,184) was 17.3 p.c. of capital as against
16.9, 19.1, 13.9 and 11.1 p.c. back to
1942. Cash balances rose by £83,913
last year and are £301,473 higher than in
1942. The financial position is exceed-
ingly strong—more or less liquid assets
exceed liabilities by £340,653, an im-
provement of £64,s2s—with ample funds
for expansion as occasion arises:—
1935. 1941. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £180,086 £iso,oB6 £180,086 £180,086
Xax^&'corftin-' 4,697 11)437 ' s3 > BBo * 65,0 n
cies provision 4,902 13,004 175,055 234,857
Freehoid .. 102,070 115,974 117,298 117,298
KmfnV.: 10 slfA IBS? 22 K51 28 I:SSI
stock.. .. 7,663 29,265 36,007 30,972
Book debts .. 2,958 9,472 20,296 18,124
SiiJS . • 25 ’ 049 , 28>3 ; 5 0 , 269 ’ 6 ; 3 , 350 ’ 589
9. P al rf i tooad Sed f°u 8 .?’ 586 5‘" P ‘
? M h and 180 ’<S? contributing ords. paid
>rw; ea ? • h fu f - p l r ,f ely aP u P^ r u 1
fb h m ° re - th , an ia are held
the Sydney associate co.), and prospective
buyers of the 15s. shares have advanced
m \ °f? rS £° m ° d ceiling ol 28s.
6d. to 31s. 6d. without attracting sellers.
At 31s. 6d. the yield is 4.7 p.c. on the
basis of present 10 p.c. div., which the co.
should be well able to continue.
The Australian Mining and Smelting
Co., Ltd., formed by Zinc Corp. in 1937
to investigate and test new mining pros-
pects, has been granted a licence to hunt
for oil over an area of 9000 sq. miles,
which includes Victoria River Downs
station, near the border of the Northern
Territory and Westralia. Further west, in
the Kimberley district, Freney Oil and
Caltex Oil are also on the hunt, and have
been for some time. The search for oil
today is a speculative and usually very
expensive business, involving the expendi-
ture of tens of thousands and often hun-
dreds of thousands of pounds. The work
can be divided broadly into two major
phases; (1) The preliminary or theor-
etical stage, which involves library, map-
room and laboratory research; and (2)
the field approach, which includes aerial
reconnaissance and map-making, personal
geological exploration, a planned light
drilling campaign, and several sorts of
geophysical survey. All this means the
employment of a large team of scientific
workers, including geologists, geo-
physicists, palaeontologists, stratigraphers,
tectonicjsts and others.
:S * * ♦
“C.A.L.” Writes:
Zinc Corp.’s big expansion programme, be-
sides seeking new silver-lead and other ore-
bodies, includes a search for natural gas in the
200-mile strip of country between Lake Eyre
and Tibooburra. That gas exists in this area
was evidenced over 30 years ago, when Quin-
yambie station, 150 miles north of Broken Hill,
sank a bore several thousand feet deep. Con-
trary to expectations gas, not artesian water,
flowed from this hole. Being situated near a
stock-route, the bore is a boon to drovers,
who boil their billies by placing them on a grid
over the bore-mouth and igniting the gas.
When not further required, a bag thrown over
the flame extinguishes it. Seventy miles south
of Quinyambie a selector, also drilling for
water, met with a good flow of gas at a depth
of a couple of hundred feet. Pegging an oil
lease, he sought the services of a geologist, but
allowed the lease to lapse when told that the
gas was none other than CH4, marsh gas, and
of no commercial use.
* 4! * *
Tongkah Compound No. 2, operating
at Seremban (F.M.S.), started up its
100,000-c.y.-a-month steam dredge again
in September, 1946 ; but engine trouble
and coal shortage stood in the >vay of
continuous running until Feb. 22 last,
when digging commenced with one shift,
a second shift‘began six days later. No
announcement has been made as to when
the other machine, with a capacity of
150.000 c.y. a month, is likely to set in.
The Japs worked the area for years
for a recovery of 591 tons t.o. At end
1941 there was about 5,957,000 c.y. of
0.41ib. ground waiting to be treated. Dur-
ing 1941 the co. recovered 331 tons t.o. for
a profit of £32,650, from which a ss. div.
(£25,000) was paid. Since then costs have
increased enormously.. Paid capital is
£81,250 in 100,000 £1 shares, of which
25.000 are f.-p. and the balance paid to
15s. each. Tongkah Compound, N.L.,
holds a 40.6 p.c. share interest.
*«* * *
Westralian Mines Department has
agreed to assist Evanston Gold, N.L., to
the tune of £25,000. Conditions are:
(1) Capital to be increased to £150,000 by
the creation of 250,000 4s. ord. shares,
of which 187,500 are to be offered for
cash (this shareholders have already
agreed to do); (2) immediate erection of
a tailings treatment plant; (3) appoint-
ment of a manager acceptable to the de-
partment (this has been done); (4) give
the department a bill of sale over leases
and plant; and (5) repay the loan from
10 p.c. of the gold won.
* * * *
Prospectors complain that some Lon-
don-controlled Westralian goldmining
cos. are getting too much exemption on
their holdings. One case was mentioned
where no work has been done for eight
years, yet three months’ further idleness
has been agreed to by the warden. Mines
Department reply is that during the war
years exemption was allowed because of
manpower and equipment shortages. It
adds that since the war additional exemp-
tion has been granted to enable further
capital to be raised, also that the hold-
ings are big low-grade co. propositions
that would starve a prospector.
3|C 4*
Dividends reported by Westralian gold-
mining cos. in 1946 totalled £713,926,
compared with £632,703 in 1945. The
bulk of the distribution was made by
the Kalgoorlie-Boulder producers.
THE AUSTRALIAN
GAS LIGHT COMPANY
Chairmans Address at Annual General Meeting of Proprietors.
At the annual meeting of proprietors of The Australian Gas Light
Company, held on March 6, 1947, in Sydney, the Chairman of
Directors, F. B. Spencer, Esq,, said:
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The first reference which I feel I should make
when addressing you today is to the retirement of
Sir Samuel Cohen from the position of Chairman of
Directors on account of ill-health. Sir Samuel has
been a Director of the Company since the beginning
of 1932 and Chairman since 1939. As you probably
know, in joining the Board, he followed his father,
the late Mr. G. J. Cohen, who was a Director for 46
years and Chairman for 44 years. There has thus
been a joint contribution to the service of the Com-
pany by Sir Samuel and his father, extending over a
period of 60 years.
During his tenure of office as Chairman, which
included the war years, Sir Samuel was a source of
inspiration to all who were fortunate in being
associated with him. His years of office were not easy
ones; but the present high standing qf the Company
is evidence of the energy and wisdom with which he
applied himself to the discharge of his responsibilities.
1 feel that a debt of gratitude is owed to him, not
only by his fellow Directors and Shareholders, but
by the employees whose interests he always had in
mind, and by the community which he served un-
selfishly as the head of a great public utility.
I am confident that I speak for all in expressing
regret that Sir Samuel has now felt compelled to re-
linquish his position as Chairman, and I know that
you will all join with me in expressing a sincere
wish that his health and strength may be speedily
restored.
Although the overall financial results of the Com-
pany’s, operations during the year under review have
been satisfactory, nevertheless there have been many
serious difficulties, both in respect to labour and
in obtaining sufficient supplies of materials and
equipment.
In regard to labour, the worst feature of the year
was the industrial dispute which commenced during
December, 1946, and continued into January, lffi47,
causing restrictions in the use of gas and the subse-
quent cessation of supplies. No ’ doubt you all fol-
lowed events as they occurred and were reported in
the daily press, and therefore I do not propose to
refer to other than their main features.
The dispute centred around claims by shiftworkers,
who are mainly engaged in the production of gas,
for increases in penalty rates of pay. The claims
are very involved, so that I shall only deal with
them generally. The Company, realising that some
of the claims had merit, offered not to oppose certain
of them when, in due course, they would be adjudi-
cated on by the Arbitration Court; but in respect
tp the remainder of the claims, including one for an
increase in pay from time-and-a-half to double time
for work on Sundays, the Company indicated that
it must exercise its legal right to oppose them be-
fore the Court. At this stage there was every
reason to hope that the extent to which we were
prepared to agree to the claims would enable gas
manufacturing operations to continue without inter-
ruption. But unfortunately such was not to be the
case, and you know how it became necessary to re-
quest the salaried staff to undertake manufacturing
and other operations so that our customers should
not be deprived of gas. This action accomplished
its purpose until the strikers promised to produce
not less gas than the volunteer salaried staff had been
doing and thereupon they replaced the latter. How-
ever, they then refused to carry out instructions to
make gas and deliberately closed down the plant,
which resulted in supplies being completely discon-
tinued.
Subsequently, upon the State Government appoint-
ing a Public Officer to take measures to secure a
restoration of supplies,* the strikers resumed work,
but only to go on strike again at a later date in
defiance of a decision of a mass meeting of their
fellow-unionists. This last phase ended as a result
of a conference of the Companies affected in New
South Wales and other States with the Australasian
Council of Trade Unions, and work was resumed on
the basis of the Company’s original offer.
I have three reasons for placing this brief sum-
mary of recent events before you. Firstly, so that
I may have the opportunity of expressing my feel-
ing, which I believe you share, of deep concern and
apprehension that such as has happened can occur
in our community, and that a handful of men can
defy the law of the land and the decision of their
fellow-unionists, break agreements with the Company
and the State Government, and with complete dis-
regard for their obligations to the community em-
bark on a programme of direct action apparently
designed to by-pass the functions of the Arbitration
Court, and to force the hand of the Government.
My second reason is to pay a tribute to the large
number of the salaried staff who offered their ser-
vices in the public interest notwithstanding much
personal inconvenience and worry, and who produced
and distributed gas until force of circumstances
prevented them carrying on further. I feel that
I should publicly acknowledge the debt which
everyone owes to this group of employees, who took
a stand for law and order and the welfare of the
community.
My third reason is to remove an impression which
may have been gained that the Public Officer was
appointed to administer the affairs of the Company.
This was not the case, and at no time did the
administration of the Company pass from its control.
You should also know that your Directors pointed
out the unwisdom in the suggestion to make such an
appointment, and objected in emphatic terms to it,
but that when it was in fact made they decided to
extend full co-operation to the Government’s Public
Officer so that everything possible could be done to
restore supplies to the community with the utmost
speed.
Apart from difficulties with labour, we have had,
of course, 'our -difficulties regarding supplies. There
were occasions during the year when coal stocks
became so low that it seemed inevitable that pro-
duction of gas would have to be reduced. On one
occasion only sufficient coal for 7 hours was in
hand. However, in co-operation with the Coal Com-
missioner and our coal suppliers, the public was
saved any hardship on this account.
The inadequacy of supplies of main and service
pipe to keep pace with new customers’ requests
for supply of gas also occasioned anxiety at times,
particularly when the general shortage of coal re-
sulted in reduced railway rolling stock being avail-
able for transporting pipes to us from the manufac-
turer’s plant. This situation was met in part by
resorting to road transport, and approximately 3500
tons of pipe were brought from the Port Kembla*
works of Australian Iron & Steel, Ltd., by this means.
Notwithstanding all the difficulties that were en-
countered, the year has, however, been one of pro-
gressive development.
Sales of gas, by-products and appliances, have all
shown considerable improvements over 1945 opera-
tions.
The quantity of gas sold was 1591 million Tin its,
being an increase of 4.36 p.c. over 1945 sales. This
was achieved despite the restrictions and the total
cessation of supplies which occurred during December.
Sales of by-products have also shown increases.
Coke and breeze increased by approximately 16,000
tons, while tar and tar products increased by approxi-
mately 210,000 gallons. This must be considered par-
ticularly gratifying because of the contribution that
profits from by-products make towards the general
financial position of the Company. During the year
we were able to obtain quantities of bitumen which
enabled the production of road binders to be re-
sumed, thus enabling us to re-enter the market for
this type of product on the pre-war basis.
Supplies of gas appliances improved during 1946,
but not to the extent that we had desired. At present
basic domestic appliances, such as gas ranges and
bath heaters, are being diverted to new residences,
and a large demand for replacement of worn-out
appliances remains unsatisfied. Against this, How-
ever, multi-point hpt-water appliances and sink
heaters are, becoming available in increasing numbers
for general use. A pleasing feature concerning
domestic appliances is the keenness being evidenced
by manufacturers to improve the style apd efficiency
of their pre-war models. In this connection the
Company continues to render all the technical
assistance in its power. Another aspect which must
give satisfaction is the attention appliance manu-
facturers are giving to the production of gas-
operated refrigerators. The several new models which
are commencing to make their appearance are addi-
tional evidence of the popularity of this particular
gas appliance.
The increase in customers during the wear was
4200, the total number served now being 306,250.
Much of the increase .is associated with the activi-
ties of the Housing Commission, with which the Com-
pany continues to work in close co-operation. You
will be pleased to know that gas continues to be
the 1 service in the great majority of homes now
being erected in our territory. No doubt many
factors operate to bring about this position, but 1
feel that amongst the more important may be
mentioned the standard of service given by the Com-
pany.
At Mortlake the erection of the additional Car-
buretted Water Gas Plant authorised during 1945 is
progressing, and it should be ready to operate by
the end of this year. A comprehensive programme
for further extensions to gas-making and by-products
plant, additional gas holders and ancillary works
plant is at present under consideration. This pro-
gramme aims at meeting anticipated increases in
production and distribution demands for some years
ahead.
During the year there has been a very consider
able extension of the Company’s distribution system.
Approximately 43 miles of new mains were laid,
together with 22 miles of service pip.es. Numbers
of comparatively lengthy extensions of mains were
made necessary by the activities of the Housing Com-
mission. In connection with these and all other ex-
tensions of mains, a long-range view has been taken
of the potentialities of new districts now being
opened up. I have referred earlier to our difficulties
in connection with pipe, but in carrying out this
programme a shortage of labour had also to be con-
tended with. This was reduced as far as practicable
by the use of mechanical equipment. Officers and
employees concerned are to be commended for what
has been accomplished in the work of extending the
Company’s service in the face of the many difficulties
which confronted them.
I would now like to say a word about what may
be called the better side of personnel matters.
Practically all employees who enlisted from the
Company for service with the Armed Forces have .re-
turned to us, and I am happy to say that they
seem to have all settled down satisfactorily. We
are glad to see them back, and a hearty welcome
was tendered to them on your behalf at the Troca-
dero during July last. We grieve, however, that
34 did not live to return; let their memory always
remain with us.
During the year it was agreed to extend to wages
employees the benefit of a retiring allowance for
long service with the Company. For many years
the salaried staff have enjoyed the benefit of long-
service leave, and the Directors are particularly
giad that it became possible to take another step in
the direction of obtaining a greater degree of uni-
formity in the conditions of employment of wages
and salaried employees.
The nett profit for the year amounted to £323,3pl
13s. Bd. which, together with the sum of £106,402
11s. 9d. brought forward from 1945, makes avail-
able for distribution a total sum of £429,704
ss. sd. This is after providing the full amount per-
mited by legislation for the depreciation of assets
and the Special Purposes Account.
An interim dividend for the first half of 1910
of 3 p.c. amounting to £145,800 having been paid
in August last, the sum remaining available for dis-
tribution is £283,904 ss. sd. A final dividend of
8 p.c. for the second half of 1946 is now recom-
mended and which will absorb £145,800, leaving
a balance to be carried forward of £138,104 ss. sd.
In giving you this summary of the year’s operations
I desire to express the Directors’ appreciation of
the contribution which the executive officers and
staff have made'towards the splendid results achieved
during the year. The senior officers of the Com-
pany particularly deserve the fullest commendation
for the manner in which they shouldered their re-
sponsibilities, for their lot has been far from
easy.
In concluding my address I would like to make a
brief reference to the forthcoming year. The nature
of the problems which the year will present should
be clear to all who have followed events since the
conclusion of the war, and, in the main, they are
associated with the employment of labour and the
difficulty in carrying out the necessary maintenance
and extension of plant. Until they are satisfac-
torily solved, however, they must continue to operate
against tho utilisation of the full and complete re-
sources of the Company, and against the accom-
plishment of that -maximum progress which is so
desirable in the interests of all groups involved,
viz., shareholders, customers and employees.
You will appreciate that until we know the details
of any solutions proposed for the problems to which
I refer, we shall be unable to measure their financial
effect. In making that remark I merely seek to em-
phasise to you that we have some difficult times
ahead which will call for the exercise of the highest
degree of administrative skill.
You may be assured that your Directors will, on
their part, continue to exert every effort to maintain
a policy based upon a proper balance between the
rights of the three parties affected by the Company’s
operations, the right of shareholders to receive a
proper return on their capital, the right of cus-
tomers to receive an efficient service and a good pro-
duct at the lowest practicable cost, and the right of
employees to a fair and reasonable return for their
labour.
I now move:—
“That the Statement of Accounts for' the past
year' be received, that the Report of the Dir-
ectors be adopted, and that this meeting do
order and determine that a dividend of 3 p.c.
be paid for the half year ended 31st December,
1946, on the “A” and “B” shares.”


Myjeads '
says Al«'^ ne
Hostess,
Ann®
Young |
* somewhere
above the Anne
C h«** weU °“
Young » as
g roU ”i „ eye on the tnlure, *e
With an e y e
says i realises the
“perhaps no ore than vre
meaning «f «*” while «• W
hoßteßsea 4o- B “ gecullty ta the
great attentton mini *
air,. tnoßt "f
iiffetentkvndof* „
ogainat the n thi
“The best vr ' . Common-
done to
wealth Bonis. “
many yea«- hoi ,aßenior
8 has Bov- °v«
hoßtess «'* 'A 2i years she
300,«0« nnh* » with air travel.
has been associated
The Third Security Loan opens on
April 15 : Bonds will be available in
denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO
and £l,OOO, paying interest at the rate
of 3i% for 12 years or 2% for three
years. You can make a fully-paid ad-
vance subscription at once, and interest
will be paid from the date of your
application. Invest to-day through any
Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
\
MAKE AN ADVANCE
SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
third §
Security Loan
P. 3 5L.1.83
WHICH WAY
ARE YOU travelling:
Set a course for prosperity make an
advance subscription now to the Third
Security Loan. Your savings and surplus
money will buy Security Bonds that earn
better than bank interest . . . that are
the safest investment in Australia to-day
. . . that are as good as cash in an
emergency.
Not only do you secure your future, but
you speed the day when better quality
goods will be plentiful again.
Listen to the
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL
QUIZ CHAMPIONSHIP OF 1947
Second Capital City Semi-Finals
All Stations, TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 8 p.m.
(South Australia, 7.30 p.m.)
SUNDRY SHOWS
PAUL SCHRAMM.
Melbourne City Council has a Baths
and Gardens Committee. It should also
have a chairs committee, particularly as
the 1947 “celebrity” concert season is
approaching. It has always had trouble
with its chairs —they squeak, grumble and
shout and sometimes make a collective
uproar sufficient to drown a full orch-
estral performance of William Walton’s
“Belshazzar’s Feast” or the “March of
Democracy” of Percy Grainger.
At his all-Chopin recital the other even-
ing it was Paul Schramm’s turn to test
the quality of the Town Hall chair. It
was an ordinary common or garden
chair, apparently rushed up from the
Town Hall kitchen and, although it was
not as loquacious as the chairs the audi-
ence has to contend with, it was suffi-
ciently verbose to interfere with Mr.
Schramm’s contemplation in the magnifi-
cent Polonaise in A Flat Major, and he
demanded another. This turned out to
be entirely silent, being one of those
modern steel tube affairs appropriate to
a dentist’s consulting-room, but it had
another method of dealing with Mr.
Schramm and nearly succeeded in shoot-
ing him on to the floor in the vigorous
Scherzo in C Sharp Minor.
A suggestion that the distinguished
pianist should return to the first chair or
something exactly like it got a cold re-
ception, and the second part of the pro-
gramme began with Mr. Schramm and
the audience still confronted with an
apparently insoluble chair problem. An
upholstered chair which had seen better
days was then salvaged from the Town
Hall dustbin or somewhere and Mr.
Schramm, remarkably unshaken by his
previous experiences, anchored his stern
securely to it and courageously tackled
the Twelve Preludes. After gliding'deli-
cately through the Nocturne in C Minor
and triumphantly negotiating the intrica-
cies of the delicious Berceuse, Mr.
Schramm finished his programme and
nearly finished the chair with the spirited
Polonaise in A Flat Major.
It was Schumann who described
Chopin’s Sonata No. 2 in B Flat Minor
as a “linking together of four of his
maddest children in order to introduce
them by fraud under this name into a,
place which otherwise they would per-
haps never have entered.” At his Sydney
Town Hall all-Chopin recital on Satur-
day night Paul Schramm heartlessly
abandoned the youngest child, preferring,
as he explained in one of his friendly
chats to the audience, to finish the work
.with the great “Funeral March.” And
the manner in which Schramm played this
music, with its sombre chords and its
cleverly simulated roll of muffled drums,
lent support to the pianist’s obvious con-
ception that the short fourth movement
presents an anti-climax. Unlike many
pianists, Schramm is able to impart into
the opening Allegro the necessary sug-
gestion of terror which paves the way
for the wonderful threnody.
The remainder eff the programme was
devoted to shorter works, including the
12 Preludes, the Waltz in C Sharp Minor;
the A Flat Major Polonaise, the C. Sharp
Minor Scherzo, Three Eccossaises (de-
Scotched Scotch dances, as Schramm
described them) and a comparatively rare
piece, the Polonaise Phantasy in A Flat
Major, Opus 61 —a showy and brilliant
work, beautifully played.
"The Barber of Seville."
Within the limits necessarily imposed
by boiled-shirt opera, there has been no
more spirited singing heard in Sydney for
a long time than that of William Laird
in the title role of Rossini’s sparkling
work, given an airing with the A.B.C.
Symphony Orchestra and chorus. Sing-
ing in the best traditions of bouffe —his
rendition of the famous “Largo al Fac-
totum” was a gem—he unloosed a voice
of splendid timbre and range. William
Herbert, as Count sang with
lyricism and Renee Goossen’s coloratura
work was reminiscent of the effortless
clarity of Toti Dal Monte ; Raymond
Beatty voiced Dr. Bartolo’s plaints at
around 180 w.p.m., every one of them
recognisable.
Heather Kinnaird, Walter Kingsley and
Alan Light completed a cast that collec-
tively could measure up to standards
anywhere.
"Athos Follies, 1947."
George Wallace’s inimitable confi-
dences and observations on Japan are the
best turn in Sydney Tiv.’s current con-
fection. It is so good in fact, such a
good comic dissertation by one of the best
of comedians, that it should be bottled
for future reference —as, perhaps, should
George himself. At any rate, in these
days of radio, wisecracks and other high-
pressure humor, he shares with very
few the ability to convulse an audience
simply by walking on to the stage.
With George as the backbone, the
“Follies” have ample other ingredients to
provide body and support —particularly
the shapely supports of Virginia Lee, of
Gilbert and Lee, and the agile bodies of
the Kermond Brothers, a pair of Aus-
tralian acrobats and dancers‘whose fall-
about tactics would justify them having
an ambulance and a bonesCtter waiting
for them in the wings. Burton and Janet
turn in some lively impersonations;
Levon and Leone some startling contor-
tions ; Ernie Baron indulges in panto-
mimicry, that being the art of providing
the body and gestures for a disembodied
voice emanating from a gramophone;
and Ted Waldman does everything with
a mouth-organ except eat it —and very
nearly does that.
"I Know Where I'm Going."
The destination of the self-assured
young lady (Wendy Hiller) in this English
comedy at Sydney Embassy is matrimony
with a greying multi-millionaire, the
romantic setting for the ceremony being
an island in the Hebrides. Unfortunately,
both her well-laid plans and her self-
assurance are badly shaken by a gale
which delays her journey from one island
to her final destination and throws her
into the company of Roger Livesey, a
naval lieutenant spending eight days’ leave
in his native haunts. gale lasts long
enough for Miss Hiller and Mr. Livesey
to arrange a common future, while the
lady s intended groom on the other island
is presumably left lamenting.
Both Miss Hiller and Livesey play their
roles naturally and with considerable
grace and conviction ; their diction should
satisfy even Shaw’s fastidious ear. The
quiet humor which English studios thread
through this line of film, and the
accuracy with which they depict minor
characters, are both well in evidence, and
the camera makes an effective but un-
obtrusive record of the wild and wind-
swept scenery.
Reviewed Briefly.
Artbursts •
Henry Hanke (Royal Art Society's
Gallery): a wide range of subject matter,
all of it competently painted. A large still-
life, “Fruit, Brass and Copper,” within
the static limitations of the subject, is
excellent, a lesson in tone. Oranges,
apples, pears ; a fine large quince ; gleam-
ing brass, a dull red cloth, the dull glow
of china, all with a fidelity and power of
composition which is impressive in the
technical sense. And, in its power of
projecting ordinary objects into poetry,
a quiet comment on the power of art.
“Spring-street Corner” is a charming
study of old stone, a small street, a
fruit-barrow and a tree with gay green
leaves. Other paintings, with no grave
disadvantages, are disappointing —a little
flat.
Jean Isherwood (Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney): “Frost Below Mt. York,” com-
bining a smooth, clear wash v/ith a deli-
cate veil of mist, is the best of Miss Isher-
wood’s exhibition. Thfe other 20 water-
colors reveal, in varying degrees, the
artist’s characteristics —a graceful delicacy
in the use of the watercolor technique,
gleaming rather than flashing ; a tendency
to distortion —a progressive fining-down
of trees, humans and buildings—as a
dramatic expedient, but which leads to a
toylike artificiality. The watercolors and
six rough-and-ready oils were not so
good.
Noel Ruble (Grosvenor Gallery, Syd-
ney); Paintings and drawings with titles
to stir the imagination: “Banana
Scherzo,” “Les Fleurs du Mai,” ‘ Ro-
mantic Death,” “Wench,” “Le Presage.
“Australia Infelix,” “Ivory Tower,” “Off-
rande,” “A Maladjusted Ploughboy,”
“Ouvert la Nuit.” But once excited the
imagination has little to work upon.
“Maladjusted Ploughboy” shows a
ploughboy, close up, looking unhappy, or
thoughtful, or, perhaps, just bored. In
the background, so that there will be no
mistake about it, is a ploughed field, horse
and plough. “Australia Infelix” is the
kind of unhappy land hordes of young
Sydney artists feel obliged to paint since
the National Gallery has been buying
Russell Drysdales and Sali Hermans so
generously. Other paintings have a kind
of poster-like appeal.
Art and Films
“I’ve Always Lbved You” (Sydney
Victory): Unusual and delightful enter-
tainment, with Catherine McLeod an ex-
cellent reason for Republic having done
the honors in Technicolor. A large per-
centage of the sound track comes from
the unseen Arthur Rubinstein, who tickles
the ivories until they almost have
hysterics. As a picture with classical
music as its mainstay, it’s one of the
best.
“Angel On My Shoulder” (Sydney
Plaza): Paul Muni with the devil on his
tail. He gets his ticket to the nether
regions from a fellow-gangster’s gun, and
then a return ticket from Beelzebub for
certain promises to be fulfilled on earth.
His soul is transplanted into the body ot
a young county Judge running for State
Governor, and there’s a considerable
amount of devilry before he does the
decent thing and returns below. Mum
is still the powerful actor he was before
he took to beards and things, but Claude
Rains, as Mephistopheles, walks off with
the show.
“Till The Clouds Roll By” (Sydney
St. James): Technicolor biography ot
Jerome Kern thickly interlarded with jus
compositions and excerpts from h-
shows, and populated with such people as
Angela Lansbury, Kathryn Grayson.
Judy Garland, Dinah Shore, June All}
son, Robert Walker, Van Johnson and
Van Heflin. The grand finale is _ Frank.
Sinatra straining at “Ole Man River
for a few blessed moments his voice am
cipates his appearance, whereupon the
sound is mercifully drowned by female
juveniles in the audience making t
theatre sound like a farmyard at feeding
tH “Bachelor’s Daughters” (Sydney May-
fair) : Starts off well with a batch ot hgh
hearted humorists led by Adolp
Menjou collecting grins from all quarters,
but when the plot-writers make shu
ing gear-changes from laughter to e
they strip the teeth from both emotions.


No. 6 of a Series
NAPOLEON I’s
1 c z/~
Among the many strange weapons designed for the little Corsican genius is this
poly-grooved, double-barrelled sporting carbine. The barrels revolved on a
common centre, and each carried its own flash-pan and hammer. J History does
not tell us its range, but with a bore of J" the recoil must have been formidable.
ICI
§ Modern , precision sporting weapons demand
consistent , hard hitting ammunition. Sporting
ammunition bearing the i.c.i. brand is the first
choice of experienced sportsmen everywhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM
Rosehill on Saturday probably looked better
than it has ever done before; lawns and
gardens in tiptop order, numerous improve-
ments to layout and accommodation, and every-
thing freshly painted. All this, of course, rep-?
resenting a diversion of labor and materials
while many ex-servicemen and others have
lacked a decent roof over their heads.
Considered unlucky to have been beaten by
Air Flare in the Canterbury Cup, Courier made
amends by taking thp richer Rosehill Cup,
worth £l4OO, plus sweepstakes and trophy to
the winner. The distance was 12 furlongs.
Into the straight the early leaders Buzz Off
and Invictus had worried each other out of any
show of winning, and Courier took charge at
thfe distance. Nearing the post Proctor chal-
lenged and got to the front, but Courier (A.
Ward) came again grandly to win a photo,
finish. The hairline decisions of the camera
have led the judge to re-introduce the old
margin of “a nose” and that’s what Courier won
by. Courier is a five-year-old Marconigram
gelding; Cape Neddick (third) is a son of Mar-
conigram’s Melbourne Cup winning son Mara-
bou.
Although a display of great gamencss,
Courier’s run did not impress from a Sydney
Cup viewpoint. With 8.1 he had only 31b.
more than his Cup weight and appeared obliged
to call on every reserve to gain the decision,
which could let him in for a Cup penalty.
Both minor placegetters would appear better
prospects for the Sydney Cup.
Really good Doncaster prelims, were run
by Prince Consort in winning the seven-furlongs
Flying, by Two Grand in finishing third behind
Good Idea, and by the favorite Despatch Case
(fourth). Despatch Case, an imported horse
having his second run here, had to be hard
ridden to take up a good position eaTly, and
thereafter had to keep the pace full on to hold
the smart Hiraji. Despatch Case’s condition
gave out at the distance, and Prince Consort
(F. Williams) went to the front and ran out
a good winner. Prince Consort has the speed
and will not be troubled to see out a mile. He
clocked excellent time in the circumstances,
1.24.
Members of the visiting American Navy force
just up from a spell in the Antarctic should
have had no trouble in picking a few at Rose-
hill. Winners with a seafaring flavor included
Deep Sea (G. Moore), who won the first Two-
year-old from Coronation Lad and Unfold;
Monsoon (W. Briscoe), a narrow winner of the
Novice from Menelik and Flowers; Maelstrom
(W. Cook), who downed Tattling and Sweep
in the first Trial, and May Mist, accounting
for Heroic Age and Wilton Park in the second
Trial. Deep Sea did very well in carrying
9.6 to record his third win from as many starts.
Caruso, favorite for the race, would be best
forgotten till he does something. He went out
sweating profusely and ran erratically, as he
had done in Melbourne at his only two previous
starts. The second Two-year-old was won by
Valiant Crown (G. Podmore), with Conductor
and Cherson in the places, while the Welter
went to Loyal March (E. Fordyce), followed
home by High Tide (who might have cost the
navy chaps some of their winnings) and Darnley.
* * * *
On his showing in the Alister Clark Stakes
at Moonee Valley on Saturday Attley appears
to have had all the racing he requires for a
while. Under the quality scale of this mile
event Attley was conceding 111 b. to St. Fairy
and a good deal more to the others. Beginning
smartly, after playing up at the barrier;, Attley
led clearly into the straight, but thereafter
shortened his stride and finished out of a place.
Passing the judge St. Fairy (A. Breasley) was
safely holding the New Zelander Master Dash,
with Don Pedro finishing on fairly well for the
minor money. St. Fairy’s time of 1.371 was a
quarter-second outside the course record and
excellent on the holding track.
Curiously, none of Porter’s horses had pre-
viously won at the Valley, though various
of them have been well backed there time and
again. The suggestion of a “hoodoo” must
have been getting the stable down; St. Fairy
went out at 20 to 1. First prize of £l5OO car-
ried St. Fairy’s winnings past £20,000. He seems
certain to make the trip to Sydney for the
autumn racing and could more than return ex-
penses in w.f.a. events and even prove up to
carrying his 9.7 successfully in the Doncaster.
Punters anticipated that his advantage of 171 b.
in the weights would enable Monte Cassino (7.11)
to defeat Royal Mark (9st.) in the Hollymount
Handicap for two-year-olds. However, the
handicapper had them summed up perfectly.
After moving off rather leisurely Royal Mark
gathered great speed in the run ..down the
straight to just head the favorite on the post,
giving R. Heather his first winning ride since
recently resuming after a spell on the outer.
The Law Maker filly English Maid turned in
a tiptop run to bag third place.
Four of the seven runners in the 15-furlongs
Moonee Ponds Handicap were in pretty well
equal demand at around 7 to 2 and fours, yet
punters failed to pick either first or second with
more than half the field running-for them. The
Grand National Hurdle winner Solvent tried to
lead all the way, but didn’t quite see it out,
going down to the 35-guinea bargain mare Miss
Prim (G. Bougoure). The equal favorite Field
“This bloke MUST be a demon bowler!"
Balloon, a distant third, was closest of the
public fancies.
In the Sherwood Handicap for three-year-
olds S. Ralph, on Top Rank, for the second
time within a week finished runner-up and
reckoned he had grounds for a protest. How-
ever, both protests were dismissed. Winner of
the Sherwood was Blank Music, a maiden gal-
loper but well supported. Rossfield was third
and King Vale again a costly failure.
The John James mare Apropos gave b(3okies
the only bad result they had on the day, in the
first division of the Highweight. Only half-
heads separated the placegetters, but punters
had picked aright, Apropos winning from the
equal second favorites Keplerian and Warra
Nymph. If the books lost anything on that
result they certainly picked it up on the second
leg, in which Millais handled his 9st. impost
impressively to down St. Dandy and Guraki.
One other favorite did win after giving sup-
porters a harrowing time for their even money.
Ahead of Bell Tower, Air Fox dead-heated with
Securities in the Travancore Hurdle and a
protest entered by Air Fox’s rider, L. Meenan,
was quickly upheld.
He He * *
The question of just how good Attley is at
a suitable distance may not be settled till he
bumps Shannon, but the A.J.C. handicapper
apparently expressed his opinion in issuing
weights for the Doncaster. He gave Attley
10.4, which was scarcely an invitation to bring
the horse over, and connections have politely
declined to do so.
There are 151 entries for the Doncaster, with
one sticking out a mile. Blue Legend seems
absolutely pitched in with 8.11, a rise of only
21b. on the weight with which he won the
Epsom and 201 b. more than he had when he
won the last Doncaster. Blue Legend, of
course, was lucky to win the Epsom after the
good thing, Shannon, had been left lengths
behind at the start, but he did fairly beat every-
thing else in the Epsom, and Shannon is not
entered for this Doncaster.
Yet with Blue Legend having gone up only
21b., Attley was asked to meet him on 71b.
worse terms than was Shannon. Puffham
finished only fourth in Blue Legend’s Epsom,
yet now goes up 31b. and so meets Blue Legend
this time on 11b. worse terms. Columnist is a
fine animal and may prove quite up to his 9st.,
but on relative performances there seems no
justification for asking him to concede Blue
Legend 31b. On weights, at this stage of the
piece, Blue Legend looks a sitter.
Of the others, Columnist has been mentioned;
St. Fairy has a good horse’s weight at 9.7, and
is a good horse. Going down the scale, Native
Son and Magnificent (8.8), Puffham (8.7), Murray
Stream (8.6), Despatch Case (8.5), Hiraji (8.4),
Young Veilmond (8.1), Tamaroa (Bst.) and
Barnsley (7.3) seem the pick of the bunch.
Of the 134 entries for the Sydney Cup the
handicapper reckoned the best to be Russia and
the New Zealand stayer Golden Souvenir,
awarding each 9.12. On what has been
seen of visiting gallopers over the past few
years current N.Z. form seems rather below
Australian, but Golden Souvenir may deserve
his big weight. A half-brother to Kindergarten,
he has an excellent home record, including win-
ning a 12-furlongs handicap at Irentham with
lOst. in 2.30. The Randwick record for the
mile and a half, held by another New Zealander,
Beau Vite, is 2.29. On that performance Golden
Souvenir should be well up to winning a Sydney
Cup. With 9.3 Cordale probably has more
than he could handle, and Swan River (9.4),
Kiaree (9.1) and Columnist (9st.) all seem to be
conceding' too much to capable gallopers further
down the scale.
About the best handicapped animal in the
Cup may be Rainbird. Her 8.5 seems a very
handy weight for a Melbourne Cup winner.
Though she has had only one win since the
Melbourne Cup, taking out the 1945 Port Adel-
aide Cup with 9st., Rainbird has been showing
promising form in Adelaide recently, and if
she makes the trip may be hard to beat in the
Sydney Cup. The Australian Cup winner Syd-
ney James has only 7.11 and would have a
show, as would Prince Standard (8.5), Air
Flare (8.7), Codicil (8.4), Sweet Chime (8.3),
Courier and Open Air (7.12), Buzz Off (7.6)
and Doughnut (7.7), but asked to take a long-
range stab at the double this page would at
present fancy Blue Legend and Rainbird.
5*5 * * *
All parties concerned appealed to the A.J.C.
committee against the 12-months’ suspensions
of trainer G. Douch, rider J. Eaves and the
horse Craigie after an inquiry into Craigie’s
run in the Underwood Cup at Canterbury. The
committee dismissed the appeals on behalf of
trainer and horse but upheld that of J. Eaves.
This decision appeared to cause no end of
amazement in some quarters, but the reinstate-
ment of Eaves seems reasonable enough, since
the lad is an apprentice and, according to state-
ments made, was riding to instructions. What
does seem strange is that the lady owners of
Craigie should be exonerated and yet their
horse put out. The committee also announced
the termination of A. Mulley’s suspension as
from March 29.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Three-year-old Handicap: Two Grand, 1;
Proctor, 2; Euryalus, 3. Two-year-old Quality
Handicap: Temeraire, 1; Deep Sea, 2; Nizam’s
Ring, 3. Rosehill Handicap: Tamaroa, 1; In-
victus, 2; The Tiger, 3. Railway Quality Han-
dicap : Prince Consort, 1; Blue Legend, 2;
Despatch Case, 3. Rawson Stakes; Sweet
Chime, 1; Good Idea, 2; Golden Sovereign, 3.
Welter: Pearl Trader, 1; Craftsman, 2; Rose
Glory, 3.
* * ♦ «
M.C.C. tour;
Leaving Hutton and Hardstaff (both ill) and
Langridge and Gibb in Sydney, the other 13
plqyers flew to Maoriland, and in the opening
match at Wellington won with 176 and 271 for
6 wickets to 160 and 73.
In all the side’s Australian matches Hutton
headed the batting with 1642 runs, av. 71.39;
Compton scored 1838, av. 65.64; Hammond
987, av. 54.83; Edrich 1040, av. 49.54; and
Washbrook 1116, av. 36.6. The chief wicket-
takers were Smith, 64, av. 21.12; Wright 62,
av. 29.91; Bedser 28, av. 49.96; Edrich 27,
av. 37.88; Voce 25, av. 34.72; Pollard 25, av.
38.4.
The aggregate “gates” for the five Tests were
846,133 and £116,277, compared with 960,794
and £87,840 in 1936-37. Rain limited the final
match in Sydney to four days, nnd the “gate”
was down to 93,011 and £12,619; a big drop
from the second Test on the same ground,
196,253 and £26,544. v The high figures for the
third Test at Melbourne (343,675 and £44,063)
did most to make the tour profitable.
* * * *
F. Stanley Jackson, who has passed op
in England at 76, was a trustee of M.C.C. and
president of Yorkshire club, and did his bit
in Test cricket. Though he never toured Aus-
tralia, he played in 20 Tests in England.
* * * *
Some hearty biffing in India the other day
smashed all-wicket records, Gul Mahomed and
V. S. Hazare piling up 577 runs in a fourth-
wicket partnership. The nearest to it was 574
for the second wicket made by F. Worrell and
C. Walcott for Barbados v. Trinidad in 1946,
and Holmes and Sutcliffe’s 555 for the first
wicket at Leyton (Eng.) in 1932. Mahomed
and Hazare were in the rep. matches against
the Australian Services XI last year, and both
are possibles for the Indian team to tour Aus-
tralia.
* * * * *
In Australian first-class matches this season
players to top the thousand-mark were Brad-
man, 1032, av. 79.3; Miller 1202, av. 75.1;
Hassett 1203, av. 70.7; Morris 1225, av. 68.05.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; S.A. Football League has
taken a fancy to have no umpires who
belong to an umpires’ association. All
applications for the coming season had
to contain a clause saying “not an associa-
tion member, and won’t become one.”
There were still over 100 applications, in-
cluding two really prominent field-
umpires.
* * * *
Weight and experience in his favor
didn’t enable Danny Simmons to
trouble Ray Coleman (8.13) at Leich-
hardt. Simmons went well for four
rounds, bpt, after stopping plenty, he was
knocked halfway through the ropes in
round seven and ref. Art Mawson merci-
fully patted the Coleman thatch.
* * * *
Maorilander George Allen (12st.) went
well for over half the distance in his en-
gagement with American negro middle-
weight Emory Jackson (11.5 i) at Mel-
bourne Stadium, but after that holding-
and-hitting and other dubious 1 tactics cost
him whatever chance he had, and Emory,
suh, win dat fight and nobody hurt.
* * * *
Another likely sort of a welter is be-
ing brought along up towards where
Tommy Burns hails; from —a Murwillum-
bah, Tweed River, lad named Noel
Beckett, with the record so far of 27
scraps and only one decision against him.
Beckett, a fair number of whose victims
have been good Brisbane scrappers, is
only 19 and has a shrewd hand at the
game, Les McNeil, bringing him on.


a
☆
His Masters Voice
His Master’s Voice”
the Symbol of all
that is best in Radio
Ml -".‘i AM
M
TO reproduce in true and flawless reality the finest perform-
ances of the world’s greatest artists . . , that has been the
ideal which has inspired "His Master’s Voice” for over 40 years.
Now, with that same high purpose, “His Master’s Voice” has
produced an outstanding FIVE VALVE A.C. DUAL WAVE
CONSOLE RECEIVER . . . the one radio which, does full
justice to the great music broadcast by the greatest artists.
Ask your nearest “H.M.V .” Retailer to demonstrate
this new “H.M.V.” Model 667.
★ There will shortly be available-a
Vibrator Model of this receiver
for homes without electric supply.
r THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Inc. in
H-l
England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
R2/47A
.w. ,
p
Wt**
Is?
L
m
d> ob6yc£ &£&c6h& / "
•
The morning shave with Gem keeps you dean all day
and evening. Why, because Gem shaves you at skin
| eve l a true ‘professional’ job. So be kind to your
skin too ! Buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID .
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/ •
SHAVE WITH
nN
Business, Rollery, Ete.
Cheap Money,
The future of interest rates, especially
the long-term trend, is a matter of first-
class importance to investors, private and
institutional. When money is plentiful
and cheap, and other conditions are
favorable, all sound fixed-interest-bearing
securities, good industrials and other
more-or-less secure investments fetch high
prices. When money becomes scarcer
and dearer, and conditions generally lack
buoyancy, capital values tend to recede.
Suppose an investment shows a perma-
nent net return of £lOOO p.a. Its
capital value on a 2 p.c. basis would be
£50,000, because that amount invested at
2 p.c. would return £lOOO p.a. On a
3 p.c. basis the capital value would be
£33,333, and on a 5 p.c. basis £20,000.
The trend of interest rates in Australia
was downward from 1929 to 1937 ; then
for the next two years there was a. slight
up-trend; and since the beginning of
the war there has been a marked decline.
This decline has been one of the factors
responsible for the rise in price of Gov-
ernment and other Stock Exchange
securities, land, etc. Will these move-
ments continue, and, if so, for how long
and to what extent? Or is the process
likely to be reversed, and when? Precise
and final answers cannot be given to all
these questions, but they can be examined
in the light of existing conditions, in-
cluding the new technique of financial
and investment control, and reasonable
conclusions as to possible developments
arrived at.
Main differences in the .background
now and pre-war are the increase in the
volume of money in relation to the
volume of goods, and the growth of
economic control by the State. From
mid-1939 to mid-1946 the volume ,of
money in Australia (mainly savings and
other bank deposits and notes in the
hands of the public) increased by over
147 p.c. Daring the same period Gov-
ernment controls kept the rise (official) in
retail prices down to 25.2 p.c., and in
award wage rates to 27.4 p.c.- One in-
evitable result was forced saving, pressure
of which has greatly helped the Govern-
ment in its cheap-money policy. But
until the volume of production catches
up with demand, as represented by the
increased volume of money, and the wagl-
price structure is adjusted, the general
outlook will be one of expansion, and
easy money conditions and the present
low rates of interest are likely to continue.
The old idea was that the rate of in-
terest was the price paid by the bor-
rower for the use of money. The major
factors affecting the price were; (1) the
supply of and demand for money ; (2)
the risk incurred by the lender; and (3)
the ease with which the lender might re-
cover hfs money if he wanted it. One
of the functions of interest rates was to
guide new savings into various types of
investment. Now, under the new econo-
mics of “full” employment and social
security, cheap money is a central part
of policy, and interest rates have been
forced down and held down by official
edict. In future, the Government hopes
to regulate and direct the volume of
capital and other expenditure mainly by
control of central bank credit and of
private investment, through the trading
banks. ' It is in process of controlling,
permanently, all borrowing powers,
whether for commercial or local authority
purposes.
There is, however, a point at which
the blessings of cheap money cease to be
unmixed. This occurs when the official
interest rate is lower than the natural
rate, which is the rate that keeps the
supply of savings in balance with demand.
When there is so much leeway to be
made up in production of capital goods
it is illogical to weaken the incentive to
save and to stimulate the urge for con-
sumption by further twists of the cheap-
money screw. A wholesale reversal of
the cheap-money policy is unthinkable
with the national debt at its present level.
And it is understandable that a Govern-
ment planning heavy expenditure on
public works is anxious to keep money
rates low, and reduce to some extent the
impact on the taxpayer.
At the moment the Government is
following a Jekyll and Hyde policy;
through the voice of propaganda it offi-
cially courts and encourages saving, and
at the same time, through the agency of
action, it reduces the reward for saving.
When this reward becomes too niggardly
saving is discouraged, wasteful expendi-
ture is encouraged, and the interest bur-
den loses its force as a factor in debt
reduction. This is not even “soaking
the rich to help the poor” ; it is soaking
the prudent and rewarding the improvi-
dent.
Maoriland’s Investment Ban
Maoriland’s ban on the export of in-
vestment capital is puzzling to investors,
who see the Dominion's* overseas funds
topping a hundred millions, and still-
mounting. Fears of a tough season, fol-
lowing drought a year ago, evaporated
when a balmy summer lifted production.
But Finance Minister Nash still clings to
controls which were clamped down when
the Dominion nearly went broke in 1938.
Only rabid socialists, think there’s reason
for parallel action, now as then. The rest
of Maorilanders condemn the financial
embargo in strong terms. If there’s any
security in bulging overseas funds, Maori-
land was never in a better position to
launch out again in the Australian in-
vestment market, with perhaps an occa-
sional sally further afield—-the first
cautious adventures were made nearly 50
years ago. Another reason why Maori-
landers are uneasy under the rigid ban is
that they are feeling the effects of an
influx of capital from Britain, India and
elsewhere as people who can’t migrate
to the Dominions seek a safe refuge for
their savings. Maorilanders see no danger
of another flight of capital from their
safe and tight little country when the
“Buy a door-chain , lady, and prevent this sort
of thing happening
trend is for world funds to gravitate
their way. So the demand is “give us
more freedom” as opportunities for in-
vestment in Australian shares beckon, and
new issues and higher dividends give sub-
stance to their request.
Clarification by the Capital Issues
Board of its policy in insisting on
premiums for some new capital issues and
allowing others at par would be wel-
comed by directors, shareholders, and the
market. Negotiations are often pro-
longed. In August last the chairman of
G. J. Coles announced that application
had been made for permission to raise
funds for restocking and rebuilding, “but
permission has been deferred for the time
being.” The matter has still to be com-
pleted to the satisfaction of the co. and
the authorities. Woolworths were granted
permission to make a new issue, one-for-
four at par (55.), while the old shares
were worth 28s. By comparison with
Woolworths’ issue. Drug Houses’ new
shares were put out at 275. 6d. when the
old shares were quoted at 365. Electricity
Meter new shares cost 30s. when exist-
ing shares were at 365. 3d. Felt and Tex-
tiles made its new issue at 40s. when the
market price of the old shares was 625.
Baltic Simplex were quoted at 325. 6d.
when the new issue was raised at 325. 6d.
Now, Electronic Industries has applied
to make a new ord. issue, two for five at
par. While this early announcement may
be regarded as a commendable effort by
the co. to protect its
shareholders, neither
shareholders nor intend-
ing investors can get any
clea,r idea from either
precedent or policy
whether the proposal will
be rejected or , accepted,
wholly or in part, by the
Capital Issues Board.
„ * *
Following a reduction
in the annual dividend
last year from 9\ p.c. to
9 p.c., Yarra Falls’ an-
nouncement of an interim
at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
came as a surprise to in-
vestors. Buyers, who
were being supplied
steadily at 485., had to
lift their bids to 51s. be-
fore attracting sellers.
The stock had sold at 545.
9d. last year, before
directors drew attention
to three factors causing
a decline in net profits.
They were shortage of
personnel and absentee-
ism, shortage of fuel, and
increase in wages to
female operatives im-
posed on the industry by
National Security Regu-
lations. The wage-lift
has been cemented by
legislation without ap-
propriate increases in selling price or
subsidy. Dividend is now at the pre-war
rate. The yield at 51s. is £3 17s. Bd. p.c.
* * * - *
“Dougall McDougall” writes: —
It’s hard to see why “Mack” (B. 5/3/’47)
wants a railway from Blair Athol to Mackay
for transportation of the now-famous coal. The
existing line from Blair Athol has been safely
handling eight trains per day, and the line itself
can carry, irrespective of demand, enough traffic
to feed three ports, viz., the Fitzroy River at
Rockhampton, the overseas port at Port Alma,
and Gladstone. From Blair Athol to Mackay
there’s a decent range to get over, and - the
colossal expense of a new line would hardly be
warranted when, as yet, transportation has pre-
sented no problem. The twp cos. developing
this field are getting the coal with modern equip-
ment under the open-cut method, and have no
false dreams on possibilities of overseas markets.
In any case, chief markets appear to be south,
and buyers could hardly favor an extra 200
miles sea-freight both ways while all of their
demands can be met, both economically and
satisfactorily, by existing methods.


e lhe
Union Bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( Incorporated in England)
a
&
verAeaS (JDiibineiS ,
comprehensive service is available to all
exporters, importers and others having business
overseas.
dJhe Union idanb specialises in every description
\iny
of Van Ling and exchange business .
of
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr.’ L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
barrere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23G) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he Is list-
less, •won’t eat
or Is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
oim on a course i
mm VII « vuutov - . .
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the atfected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN LOTION 2/»
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
ŵ
BARKO
THE A.C.A.
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
★
ASSETS EXCEED £2,500, 000
THE A.C.A. for SECURITY
A.C.A. POLICIES are GOOD POLICIES
*
Managing Director, D. J. MOONEY.
Call, write or ring BX 2165
A.C.A. BUILDING,
66 King Street, Sydney
Branches and Agencies Throughout Five States
Ansett Transport Industries, Ltd.
Nine months ago Ansett Airways was
developing new interests so rapidly that
the directors felt it was necessary to
adopt a more comprehensive title. The
pace continues, and a new issue has just
been effected, almost doubling the pre-
vious paid capital of £360,000. The issue
comprised 200,000 £1 ords. and 100,000
5 p.c. £1 prefs., both at par. Previous
holders of each class received a general
preference in allotment of up to half of
the new capital. The other half was
available for outside subscription, the pro-
fessed wish of the directors being to
widen the distribution of shares among
States other than Victoria.
It is significant that the new finance
will implement plans not to develop air
services but to improve tourist facilities,
particularly in Tasmania. Soon after
Ansett Airways, Ltd., was formed in
1937, with the object simply of establish-
ing a network of inter-State airlines, it
had to face a crisis in the shape of Gov-
ernment attempts to nationalise airways.
These attempts, in their most drastic form
at least, were eventually frustrated ; but
in the meantime Ansett’s directors had set
about finding “other strings to the com-
pany’s bow,” with such effect that the
other strings can no longer be regarded
as ancillary. In 1944 the co. took
over Pioneer Tourist Coaches Pty.,
Ltd., as a subsidiary, to operate
coaches along scenic routes in all the
eastern and southern States. As it is in-
tended to add a further 50 motor-coaches
to the existing fleet of 55, some of the
new capital will be required by this subsi-
diary. All the present vehicles have been
constructed by another member of the
family, Ansair Pty., Ltd., which also
needs capital to extend its factory.
The most recent and most ambitious
of the co.’s extensions has been into the
hotel business, for which purpose another
subsidiary. Pioneer Tourist Hotels Pty.,
Ltd., has made its appearance. It was
considered that the generally poor
standard of existing hotel accommoda-
tion and the continuous shortage of
available bookings for tourists were
such serious hindrances to the de-
velopment of Pioneer Coaches that
the co. would have to act on its
own behalf.. Already two hotels at
Portland (Vic.), one at Lakes Entrance
(Vic.), and one at Mildura (N.S.W.), have
been bought outright, whilst two in Tas-
mania have been taken on lease. And
four other hotel licenses have been ac-
quired in N.S.W. in the expectation that
they may be declared redundant in their
present sites (as provided in the amended
Licensing Laws), so that later the co. may
transfer them to focal points along its
coastal routes.
Much of the proposed increase in capi-
tal will be devoted to purchasing more
hotels and, in Tasmania, to erecting
new ones. It is intended also to
add to the aircraft hangars at
Essendon (Vic.), but Ansett Airways
(that name is now merely applied
to a subsidiary of the holding co.) is be-
ing overtaken by the rate of growth of
its offspring. The only recent addition
to air activities was a daily service to
Tasmania, largely supplementary to the
co.’s tourist activities in that State. Ansett
is staking a very great deal on the pros-
pects of “tourism” in Australia. But it
may well be argued that to have staked
a fraction of the amount on a less
positive approach would have involved a
greater risk. The co. has to clear its
own ground before it as it goes; the
trade-name “Pioneer” is appropriate ; and
it is to the interests of the whole nation
that the enterprise should be successful.
Opportunity, in the form of overseas
demand, has knocked at Australia’s door
again, and again been turned away by
an economically blind labor force, unable
to see that the national income is a com-
munity effort to which all must make an
appropriate contribution. So Maurice
Felman, merchant, of Los Angeles (U.S.),
who came to buy cloth from our woollen
mills, goes away empty-handed, being
unable either to get supplies or book
orders for future delivery. Over the last
four years the U.S.A. has lost some 12
million sheep and has fallen from second
to fourth place as a producer of woollen
materials. This and the unsatisfied demand
for woollen goods in that country have
made purchase of Australian materials
profitable, despite the heavy American
tariff. Australia has the raw material
and plant, and the quality of the output
makes it competitive. But owing to in-
dustrial disputes, lack of coal and short-
age of labor, especially' females in the
younger age-groups, idle looms are re-
stricting production at a time when maxi-
mum output is urgently needed to
eliminate the inflation potential and pro-
vide a sound basis for “full” employment
and a rising standard of living.
* * * *
The 250,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs. issued by
Bruck Mills (Australia), Ltd., to help pay
for plant at the co.’s Wangaratta (Vic.)
factory, carry the right to interest in lieu
° f divs ; , th . e f
dose o£ the half year follow mg rnstalla-
tton of the plant This right is, however,
subject to consent of the Attorney-
cnc.'a . cs wcia a 1 , ,-j
tat holders have not yet been advised
that the co. has made the necessary ap-
plication to pay interest. At 16s. 9d he
scrip, now paid to 15s. returns a little
better than 4* p.c Ini addition to pret
capital there are 470,000 £1 ords. called
to 10s. each, and now selling at 18s. 6d
which is Is, 9d. under then bes
p ant, which is to manufacture fabrics of
all types of rayon and synthetic fibres
™ s to have commenced production early
‘his year but unexpected delays oc-
c‘lrred. However, a projected visit by
‘he general manager of the Canadian mill
suggests that plant installation migh
we “ advanced.
Rrst * echo o*f 0 * f Dr Coombs . s bab ble
about the doom of Empire preference is
by Rosella
‘ha‘ erection of a/250,000 factory at
Jatura (Vic.) would depend upon con-
“"“ance of these preferences. "Hie firm
P ro<:<:ss f f™‘s. vegetables, condiments,
jams etc a* d owns 23 acres at Tatura-
m the Sheppaiton fruit c un y
which it hopes to put up a large new
factory, which will mean much to the
fruitgrowers, provide a lot of employment
and help to swell the natronal income.
jjj jjj H* sje
, , , , . ~ »
f .Not - much has been heard lately fom
‘h« Minister for. Post-war Reconstruction
Mr. Dedman about the large number of
American and British manufacturers who
were faUmg oyer thennselves to get to
Australia and start business. For a year
or .”?■? ‘>Vf imminent arrival of new
“pital has been periodically announced,
Per haps Amtrrdian co. taxation and pro-
d“c“on difficulties, associated wi h the
labor problem, have caused capital from
overseas to take second thought about
rLS involved.
.p, , , , ' .... . ...
D That dual political personality the
p ‘‘ m .a Minister and Treasurer recently
admitted that in 1945-46 some impor ant
ex P or ;aTm d -S™ J tp slory CPnl P ared
with 1938-39. The drop was wheat and
h° u L 29 p.c., butter, 64 p.c., meat, 38
P- c -.; e || s > 66 P; c - > suga l; 3 1 f ,c ' ’ drle . d
fruits 58 p.c.; fresh fruits 31 p.c.; tal-
low, pc.; concentrates, 75 p.c plead
» P£ Maybe the heat of the dawn of
‘ho Golden Age caused them to brink.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: The rather warby-looking man
with the sad expression and faded blue
eyes shuffled into Flanagan’s shanty pub
and ordered “a double-header o’ the
strongest whisky y’ got.” Flanagan mea-
sured it out, whereupon the customer
brought oiit a small handful of wheat
from his pocket and casually dropped it
into the whisky. The shaqty-keeper
gaped for a second at the desecration and
then aske*d what was the adjectival joke.
“That ain’t a joke,” said the sad-looking
man, “it’s me way o’ testin’ the purity of
liquor. If them seeds o’ wheat don’t
split open within a few minutes I know
the whisky ain’t any good.” He went to
the door, took what looked like an
anxious glance outside, then came back
and took up his stand beside his whisky.
After a while he again went to the door,
looked out, came back and picked up
the glass. By then the whisky was pretty
well absorbed. “See,” he said, “they ain’t
split. That stuff’s no good to me.” He
went to the door, flung the soaked wheat
out aqd came back to the bar. “I’ll have
a beer instead,” he said. A quarter of
an hour later Flanagan’s swinging door
had hardly stopped swinging behind the
whisky experimenter before Flanagan’s
four well-sozzled chooks that had been
pecking in front of the pub verandah
were stuffed in the cornsack and the sad-
eyed man was beating it for the scrub.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: How much juice,
asks “Volt” (B. 12/2/ ’47), does it take to
electrocute a flying-fox? Couldn’t say,
but there’s a simple explanation of their
death, although the current responsible
wouldn’t be sufficient to register on the
meter. The wires between which the bat
suspended itself were at a difference of
potential of, say, 250 volts, and it was
the application of that initial voltage that
settled his hash. Immediately contact was
made the resistance of the bat’s body
would limit the flow of current to a
negligible quantity, A more common
example is the wizard who, scorning the
use of a switch, stops his car engine by
“shorting” the sparkplugs with his
hands. Anyone can do it who possesses
the will to hang on through the initial
shock, which is severe but not intoler-
able.
“J. Ohm”: Qet me tell “Volt”
that the amount of current the electro-
cuted flying fox still hanging in the wires
shorts out from the general load isn’t
sufficient to cause a blowout. Similarly,
an incandescent lamp lopped-in between
main wires merely extracts enough “juice”
to bring about incandescence but not
enough to cause a short circuit.
* * * *
“Zake”; Corns and “the screws” may
be far more reliable as harbingers of ap-
proaching rain than black cockatoos, but
for the really infallible test I still favor
the arit. Not the smaller sorts that in-
dustriously shift their abode from low
ground to higher levels perhaps weeks
before the impending cataract, but that
highly-aggressive fellow the bulldog.
Simply give a couple of leaps upon then-
combined hashhouse and self-contained
flats and then very wisely leap a few
yards away. Should the inhabitants fail
to rush out en masse looking for stoush
you can bet your Wagga rug the heavens
will open before another day has passed.
* * * *
“Col M.”: Having read an advertise-
ment on “The Lion Dogs of China,”
Bert decided to own. one, and wired the
city breeders. As he had never seen a
Pekinese before he was amazed at the
tiny orange animal he found waiting at
the station, sporting a label as big as itself
and blinking distrustfully at a crateful of
chickens. However, he took it home, and ■
as Mac, the pointer, tried to eat it twice in
“Have the place cleaned up by the time I get back, and Watch out
for squatters .”
the tea minutes after being first intro-
duced, Bert gave the newcomer indoor
lodgings. The little bloke was a misfit
there, too, and Bert’s missus more than
once tried to screw the mop handle into
its back by mistake. But when the week-
end came the Peke proved his worth.
Having coiled up around the thermos-
flask in Bert’s lunch-basket, the dog
awoke when his master opened it out in
the quail country. After tucker Bert
headed out with Mac to raise a few
feathers, and the canine insect was firmly
planted on the back seat of the car.
When the pair were at a reasonable dis-
tance the Peke began exploring, and ran
slap into a peeved frill-lizard as he
rounded a stump. Bert, describing it
afterwards to the mob in the Com-
mercial: “Me only recollection was that
somethin’ with red hair hit me feet, shot
up me leg and perched on me shoulder.
Both barrels went orf. And what if I did
blow the paint off old Lizzie? I got two
crows, a quail and a bandicoot with me
Lion dawg.” To which Phoebe pipes up
“Did you say ‘lion dog,’ Mr. Harris?”
“Yair. Lyin’ dog.”
* * * *
“Hanko”; For the entertainment of a
crowd of Sydneyites visiting at the home-
stead we were ordered to ride the boun-
daries" and drive in the emus and kanga-
roos that seemed always to hug the far
fences, the idea being to congregate the
trotters and hoppers conveniently near
the home paddock. Snowflake and I
took the western fence and found neither
hair nor feather along the length of it.
“Aw, well, we’ll send in somethin’,” the
abo said ; and, dismounting, he began
bunting the piled tumbleweed over the
fence. I joined in the game and soon
we had scores of roly-polies rolling and
wobbling drunkenly before the brisk
westerly breeze. We arrived back for
lunch to find the squatter, manager and
overseer in a huddle by the horseyard.
Quaking somewhat, we rode in with
faked nonchalance. “Good!” said the
squatter. “That was t quite an idea of
you fellows. What with the Toos and
emus and your roly-polies, it was quite a
show.” Snowflake breathed a sigh of
relief that would have wafted any roly-
poly up the scarp of Kosciusko.
# * * *
“Salmon Gums”: .That bagman who
put the boot into his billy (8.-12/2/’47)
was a mountebank, and if “Horseless
Horseman” had questioned the fellow he
would probably have found that he was
travelling in hair oils, affected spotted
pyjamas and carried a change of socks.
Two things only in the world surmount
the affection of a swaggie for his billy—
death and decay. No other force can
separate them. What if the billy took
longer to boil than the quart pot? I’ll
warrant the contents tasted better. Years
of curing with tannin and caffein go to
the making of a swaggie’s pride, and when
he dies his billy is buried with him —as
a safety precaution. It’s lethal to goats.
* * * *
“Flathead”: “That’ll be sevenpence—
fourpence for tea and threepence for the
sandwich,” Harry Barr looked from the
railway refreshment-room waitress’s face
to the sandwich, a rigid, concave thing
which still moved on the plate with the
motion of a rocking chair. Harry picked
it up and attempted to sink the fangs.
When his upper set began to creak warn-
ingly he replaced the article on the dish
and beckoned the waitress. “Look here,
miss,” he said, “I’ve been travelling this
line for thirty years, and I’m getting
quite attached to this sandwich. See
them little holes along its left side?
I made them when I had me own dice,
and I had to get them all out the week
after ’cause they were impacted. And
this flat bit here —I made that once when
I tried to break a bit off by putting it
under the ‘Flyer.’ No, miss, with mem-
ories like that I just wouldn’t try to eat
it. Take it back to its kennel and bring
me a couple o’ bread-boards with some
corned horse between ’em.”
* * * *
“N.7Y.”: Any horsetailer in a big
droving plant in the Far West would
laugh at the ability of a telegraph
operator' capable of distinguishing his
own key out of 30 others. That tailer
knows every one of the 30 bells in his
own camp, and has a knowledge of hun-
dreds of others. I was camped once with a
halfcaste at Old Austral, at the junction
of the Rankine and Georgina. There was
a drover’s camp on the other side of the
river, nearly half a mile distant. After
the final pint of tea Jack pricked his
ears. He listened to the medley of bells
over the other side. “That’s Jack Wil-
son’s bell,” he said, “I’m goin’ over to
see him.” He returned later, after a
yarn with Jack Wilson, who I thought at
the time was over the Darwin side.
* * * *
“Blime” It’s about seven years since
I first visited the limestone country
and met old Ned. Ned had built himself
a three-sided shack, arguing that no bad
weather came from the east and the
morning sun would be welcome in winter.
When I arrived two dogs already occu-
pied the space in front of the fire, and
an ancient sheep sheltered by the bunk.
Then a few minutes later in wandered
Ned’s hack to use up most of the remain-
ing room. “Aw, cripes, no, I didn’t
reckon on ’em all cornin’ in,” growled
the owner, shoving aside the nag’s head
to reach the table, “an’ I’m gonna board
her up.” He stopped to enjoy the pros-
pect. “Gosh, they’ll git a s’prise,” he
laughed, “when they come round some
night an’ find ’emselves shut out.” Last
week I was again in the district, and
went hunting Ned. He was still in his
three-sided shack. I stooped under the
nag’s neck, tripped over among and
pushed aside a sheep to get to the up-
turned kero.-box. “Shove that flamin’
magpie orf if he’s in the way,” growled
Ned, making a grab at the bread as the
nag knocked it within range of the mongs.
“Flamin’ nuisance, these things cornin’ in
like this, but y’ see I’m gonna alter this
here wall.” He glanced round the shack
and laughed uproariously. “An’, cripes,
is it gonna be funny when they all turn
up an’ find it’s closed in! ”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: He dropped his swag at
Tapalin in the middle of winter, and
seemed to think he’d entered a home for
the indigent or something. After a week
of broad hints and straight-out tips had
failed to shift him, the boss said “Where
are y’ makin’ for when y’ do go?” A
pair of guileless blue eyes peered through
the surrounding whiskers at the boss, and
their owner answered “Aw, think I’ll
make down t’ Mildura for the grape-
snatchin’.” Mildura is about 60 miles
by road and maybe 200 by river from
Tapajin, and since the vines were only
being pruned then, the boss said “You’ll
be wastin’ your time, mate. There won’t
be any grapes in Mildura for a long
time.” The old battler pondered, then his
grin reappeared. “Aw, that ain’t worryin’
me,” he said. “There’s Old Tapalin an’
Minduk an’ Mallee Cliffs an’ the Gol Gol
pub between here an’ there. There’ll be
plenty o’ grapes in Mildoora be the time
/ get there.” And he led the way inside
to where the cook was calling us to tea.
* * * *
“Greenhide Bob”: On Tinnenburra
(Q.) Galloping Jimmy used to canter
along the edge of the Congie lake at
mustering time looking for swan, duck
and emu eggs to make batter for the
steaks and brownies for srrtoke-oh and
keep his marble good with the camp cook.
We grew a little tired of Jimmy’s boast-
ing that he could walk, trot or gallop
with his shirt full of eggs because his
fancy roan was such a gentle gaiter.
Stiff-fingered George, the horsetailer, rode
with Jimmy one Sunday, and, after they
had located an emu’s nest, slipped a
bindi-eye under Jimmy’s saddlecloth.
The eggfinder arrived back at the camp
just barely sitting on top of a roan
cyclone, spitting blasphemies and oozing
emu egg yolk at both ends. The roan
emptied him into the remains of the
cook’s fire, scattering pots and pans and
frightening the wits out of the babbler’s
fowls, dogs, cats, kittens and two pel
goats. The bab. himself, roused from
his between-meals siesta, issued forth
from his tent and surveyed the mess.
Then he opened his beard and roared
“Y’ orter be in a flamin’ sideshow, Jimmy,
as the human omelette.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Alec, after learning to stick
tight on the quiet old mare even at
times when she switched an impatient
tail, considered himself an accomplished
horseman and set about acquiring the
accoutrements he fancied a real stock-
man should own —anew bridle with
gewgaws, then a handsome saddle
with breastplate and crupper, and, finally,
the rifle bucket. Alec reckoned that’d be
handy if he ever went shooting kanga-
roos. One Sunday morning he decked
the mare out in these trappings and, with
him aboard, her reaction to the un-
wonted flashness was a couple of play-
ful pigroots. Alec went up with the
first, the rifle bucket slid forward to keep
him there for the second which sent him
in an arc over the mare’s head. Now
he’s gone back to the bag for a saddle,
to the old plough winkers and rope reins,
and is waiting for the chance to buy a
nag that’s been taught proper respect
for high-class riding gear.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: “The men over those
bilk have tails,” said the old chief on
the New Britain coast. To my question
whether he had ever seen them he replied
that he hadn’t, but he’d seen the holes in
the ground made by their short tails when
they sat down. He led me a day’s march
to a river-bank where, he said, the taileu
men came to fish. Among the footprints
in the mud were the holes, but no an-
thropological freaks had made them. 1
knew the holes for the imprints made b>
spears stuck upright in the ground, a
habit which distinguishes the inland from
the coastal people. But I didn’t tell my
host —he wouldn’t have believed me, any-
way. For him there had always been
tailed men in the hills and there always
would be.
FISHERS OF THE STRAIT.
South-west by west from Gabo, if tranquil
skies are o’er . ..
The glowing coasts of Gippsland, on quiet reel
and shore , .
Softly the surges idle. Then,' sleek and wins-
leered seals
Dive from their sunlit ledges foT sport or salty
Around wide, shallow inlets, like galleons sedate
Float pelicans voracious in search of finny
freight.
But if a bleak wind blankets a gray expanse
with clouds -
And in chill sheets of spindrift the sandy dunes
enshrouds
Wild water-wolves come racing and snarling
from the south
With hungry fangs outreaching and white
spume in the mouth.
It’s then the wives and mothers with trembling,
anxious lips
Pray for their sons and husbands aboard the
midget ships.
In calm, fair, fishing weather the Dulcie’s
buoyant keel
Went dipping from Lakes Entrance. Two sailor-
men of steel
By deep-sea travail tempered comprised her
hardy crew.
The moods of wind and water, the weather
signs they knew —
Jack Hammerstrom from Daneland and Hans,
his Swedish mate,
Were held “as good as any” by fishers of the
Strait,
The glass that Sunday morning foretold a
coming break;
But homes must be provided, men must a
living make.
Late afternoon it freshened; by dusk ’twas
blowing hard
From Otway up to Mario and round to
Everard.
They’d turned to run before it —alas, they
turned too’ late;
The water-wolves were waiting to catch them
at the gate.
They reached the homeward Entrance, they
glimpsed its guiding light
And stood fhe Dulcie to it —she made a gallant
fight
Till crashing combers pooped her; then,
smothered stern to stem.
To shark-infested waters the ketch. surrendered
them.
Against those swirling currents Hans fought
his way ashore,
But Hammerstrom the green seas enfolded ever-
more.
The fishers of the coastland by craft and
courage earn
Small fortune from the Tasman. Their barks
that ne’er return
Are held in long remembrance, lone women
weep for these
And children mourn the fathers who perished
in the seas.
For them the shore rain murmurs a requiem
as it falls;
For them a lamentation the mourning whimbrel
calls.
VICTORIA,
E. J. BRADY.


ẃ
“Now I know what's wrong — I've bin readin' the plans upside down."
them harpooning it. Here is a far better
way of giving the qhietus to the sea
lawyer. When the sharks come around put
some fish blood in the water—mullet blood
is best of all. Then take a big mullet,
crayfish or any other dainty that appeals
to a shark, open the mouth of the fish
or split the body shell of the cray and
insert a heaped tablespoon of caustic
soda or quicklime. Toss it to where the
shark is cruising around on the trail of
blood. Within a few minutes of its taking
the bait you’ll see a mad torpedo shoot-
ing about; it usually ends with the shark
drifting to leeward, belly up, with the
gulls gathering over it. Incidentally, the
biggest sharks of all —excluding the harm-
less basking shark —are not found in
tropic waters. You’ll find them where
we operate, off the coasts of Victoria and
S.A. The biggest ever landed was hauled
up at Portland (Vic.). It was.3oft. long
and had jaws which could bite an ox
in two. Even bigger ones have been seen ;
one off the south coast of Kangaroo
Island got away after straightening a
special hook made from a one - inch
octagonal steel crowbar.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Those dead sea - fowl
found along the shore after a storm (B.
12/2/’47) mostly perish from exhaustion.
Along the North Westralian coast
I have seen, after a cyclone, the man-
grove battered into a solid hedge, with
dead sea birds festooning it by the hun-
dred, literally driven into the battered
shrubbery by the wind. And along the
beach hundreds more. The sea-fowl
suffers the same disabilities as the aero-
plane : it can withstand a certain strength
of wind, beyond which it succumbs.
Falling on to the surging waves such birds
drown, in the sense that their plumage
becomes sodden, their bodies chilled
right through. But they still float be-
cause of the density of the sea, and be-
cause, being equipped for flight, their
wing and leg bones are hollow and filled
with air.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Through, a stock-and-
station agent in the town we got wind
of a scrub-clearing contract, and the agent
ran us out to the place in his car. He
pointed to a fellow in the door of a shed
and said “There’s your man. Go an’
see him. I’m slippin’ over here to look
over a line of sheep he’s got yarded for
me.” Mat and I started off, dressed in
our Sunday clobber. The farmer ducked
back into the shed. We entered. No
sign of him. We called. No answer. We
came outside in time to see him going
through the back door of the house. We
closed on the house and a young woman
came out, stared at Mat, and called out
something. Then the farmer emerged,
and presently we had the contract. Two
months later, when we’d become friendly
with the pair and received many culinary
gifts, we got an explanation. “Y’ know,”
he said, “Me an’ the missus ain’t really
married. She ran away, from her real
husband —bit of a no-good, he was.
Knocked her about. Gripes”—looking
at Mat —“that first day y’ came I thought
y’ was him.” Mat slapped him heartily
on the back. “Y’ needn’t ha’ worried
about me,” he cried. “Gosh, if she’d
been my missus I’d ha’ given her to y’ for
nothin’.” Mat’s words put a wrong con-
struction on his meaning, but the farmer
wasn’t do know that, and thereafter the
gifts from the kitchen ceased.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: The little island of St.
Bees, some 15 miles northward of Mackay
(N.Q.), has been acquiring dual fame
as a profitable industrial centre and an
attractive tourist resort. In 1943 the
4600-ton former K.P.M. liner Crener got
piled up on the reef there while returning
from troop-carrying, and broke her back.
Two brothers, Vincent and Rawley
Elliott, bought the wreck and have lived
on it with their families for three years,
salvaging a large variety of valuable gear,
materials and cargo. Underwater work
is done with a home-made diving helmet
fitted with an air-pipe, and winches are
used for heavy lifts. Oil is extracted from
shark livers to preserve salvaged
machinery from rusting. Amongst
material already recovered are 30,000 ft.
of valuable teak decking, two large diesel
engines, a varied assortment of engine
parts and other metals, and a quantity of
unperished cargo, including tinned butter.
On the tourist side, the partly-flooded
“Wave y'r arms around up there—We want to attract attention."
crew’s quarters provide a sharkproof
swimming pool, and liberal accommoda-
tion for visitors is available in upper-
deck cabins and living rooms.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I was a horrible case of
stage fright the first time I worked on a
building in a busy street. It was in a large
country town, and country stickies are
worse than the city variety—they’ve got
more time. In my self-consciousness it
seemed that I was doing everything
wrong; when I bent a nail I expected
to hear boos from the footpath. But as.
the weeks passed the ring of spectators
grew less and less terrifying. Towards
the finish I felt slighted when my follow-
ing deserted me to watch a circus erect
the “big top” opposite the council
chambers. Incidentally, there is one type
of work that never lines ’em up on the
footpath: demolishing with pneumatic
drills. Only a deaf man could enjoy
watching through such an ear-rending
racket. Strangely, the noise doesn’t worry
the man manipulating the machine.
* * ♦ »
“Gryllus”: “Dronestung” (B. 26/2/’47)
ought to brush up his entomology a bit.
All Australian bees belong to the genus
Trigona (his “Arigona” is entirely un-
traceable in scientific nomenclature), one
of the Apidge family which includes all
European bees. As for storing only “a
little honey” any old bushman with a
taste for “sugarbag” can recall takes of
much more than 30 pounds, “D.’s” ex-
aggerated figure for the average wild hive
of apiary befes. Regarding flavor. Dr.
Basedow describes native honey as “quite
as sweet and tasty as that of the Ligurian
bee.” Professor Baldwin Spencer terms
it “excellent,” Langloh Parker “good”
and Keith McKeown “very agreeable,”
“D.’s” lofty dictum that “it is accepted
that none even approaches the class of
the honey-befc” is thus ruled out by four
completely authoritative opinions.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Although turtles may lack
the sense to back-pedal when encounter-
ing a fence which permits only the pas-
sage of head and neck, they are not
completely lacking in nous. A W.A.
syndicate established a cannery and turtle
compound on the shores of Cockburn
Sound, Fremantle; the idea being that
turtles should be brought by ship from
the north and so confined until required to
fill the tins. Economy being necessary, it
was considered that a sea palisade with
pickets spaced a foot apart would be
adequate for the confinement of the
greenbacks, the average carapace of which
measured about two feet across. But
the turtles had different ideas. Released
into the compound, they promptly turned
sideways and thus, edge-on, slipped
through the foot-wide openings and
headed back for home.
* * * *
• “Betcha”; Burnsie has developed a
soil-erosion complex. Contemplating his
rough hill property that feeds one sheep
to about forty or so acres, I asked why
it was he didn’t ringbark the timber and
clean it up. “What, and let the whole
hill wash away?” he gasped in horror.
“Heavens, no ; it’s bad enough now. Why,
every time it rains that dry loose surface
washes into the gully, and in the windy
weather it blows off. If it wasn’t for
those green trees there’d be nothing left.”
In vain I pointed to the adjoining pad-
docks. They are as steep as Burnsie’s
strip, and the same kind of soil, but
years ago they were rung and cleared.
Now they carry a thick carpet of natural
grasses and feed over a sheep to the
acre. Neither in windy weather nor rain
is there erosion, because of the grass that
holds, protects and even builds up the
surface. Water, prevented from running
freely away, mostly soaks into the hill-
side. The evidence of his eyesight entirely
failed to convince Burnsie that the trees,
by reason of the dry dust they create
beneath them, are mainly responsible for
his erosion trouble. He had read many
articles on the subject. Experts who
had studied the question could not be
wrong.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”; Erect on a few inches
of tail, hood expanded, a vicious black
cobra held the middle of a Malayan
highway while the whole transport of a
brigade ceased. A brigadier and his staff
captain alighted from their cars and
gave orders for the thing to be destroyed,
but no sound stick could be found in the
rotting jungle. All the field officers had
suggestions, but none of them practicable.
A driver of a lone A.S.C. utility coming
from the other direction took charge of
operations. “Stand clear,” he called, and
rushed the snake with his vehicle, brake-
locking the wheels so that the head and
four inches of the body were torn off.
Even then the head sank its fangs
savagely into a rifle butt.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We were nearing town
when we spotted the magpie on the side
of the road, and, as it made no attempt to
fly, Seventyfiver got off to investigate.
His low growling intermingled with sud-
den oaths and a few squawks from the
bird ; then he came on to where I was
holding his horse. “Ungrateful flamin’
things, magpies,” he snorted, mopping
off the blood that welled from his hands
in several places. “Ain’t my fault it got
stuck in the fresh bitumen. Ugly, spite-
ful beggar! Man oughter stamp on ev’ry
flamin’ one he sees.” He stopped to
straighten a piece of torn skin and glare
across at the magpie. “Not as though
they wus any earthly use,” he went on.
“The squawkin’ cows. Too many about,
that’s what, an’ half ’em want killin’
orf. We c’d shoot ’em easy.” He
squinted at the approaching truck and
nodded. “Stop ol’ Davis, will y’, Sol, an’
I’ll git a bit o’ petrol orf ’im.” “What
for?” “Aw .. .” Again he glared
savagely across the road. “I got t’ wash
the bitumen orf the blasted thing’s feet,”
« * * ♦
“8.A.”: Harry Power, the bushranger,
kept no peacocks as “watchdogs” (B.
26/ 2/ ’47). His hideout, concealed in
dense wattle - scrub,. dogwood and
bracken on a precipitous buff of the
Whitefield Ranges, commanded a full
view of the King River valley. Friends
who lived about three miles from his camp
had a number of peacocks, but any outcry
made by these birds at the approach of
strangers could not be heard at the
“Lookout.” Bush “telegraphs” kept
Power advised of the movements of the
police until one of his “friends” led the
agents of the law to his aerie, where they
found him asleep. So the police got their
man without bloodshed and Harry lived
to a ripe old age after serving a few
years in Pentridge.
“Lower Tops’l”: The trouble with pea-
cocks as watchdogs (B. 26/2/’47) is that
they are so good they are always uttering
their shrill, ear-piercing cry even on the
off-chance of something coming along.
At the Blythe family’s homestead near
the North-East River on Flinders Island
years ago a mob of 25 that roamed at
large there wouldn’t be quiet for as long
as 10 minutes all through the night, so
the skipper of our crayfish ketch
wouldn’t anchor there unless he was
driven to it. In the war years the scream-
ing of these birds became too much for
even the owners, so they took them round
to Hummock Island. There the birds are
today thriving among the grassy hum-
mocks, and I defy anyone to get near
them. '


Safe in his hands...
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique of the A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged, that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con-
fidently at A.M.L. & F. sales.
Gel in touch now with
ustralian.
.ercantile. Land & F
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree, Henty and Hay
mance
w
(Regd.)
FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas, is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere»
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
MTS
LYS
£
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
ẅ
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
W
MM
'v. ,v
-»
....
W*'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable’"from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S
WIRE, WIRE NETTI NG, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Jetting'.
“Myrrhee”: R. N. McCulloch, B.Sc.,
in the N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette,” re-
commends saturation of all the wool in
the crutch well down and out as far as a
wide crutching at sides and over the tail.
McCulloch emphasises that the wool tip
is easy to wet, but the clean wool under-
neath may be missed unless the jetting is
thorough and recommends that the spray
be directed upwards in the crutch and
downwards over the tail, returning to the
crutch to complete the operation.
With the free hand, open any wrinkles
ahead of the jetter, and if in doubt as
to whether the fluid is penetrating the
wool deeply enough, use a color. Red
oxide, Hlb. to 100 gallons of jetting fluid,
will indicate when saturation point is
reached and will scour out well; but, as
there is a prejudice against color, limit
its use to the beginning of the season. A
convenient team with single sheep races
would consist of an operator, a penner-
up and a man in charge of mixtures.
The Perfect Hereford.
“West”; Here he is, according to that
good judge, E. R. Reynolds: The body
should be thick and deep, the legs short
and set well apart. Head moderately
short, forehead broad, with horns slightly
drooping, (black tips are objectionable).
The top underline should be straight
and parallel. Neck should be thick and
fitting neatly into the shoulders, which
should be sloping with blades lying open
but well covered. Hindquarters should
he wide and deep with flesh carried well
down on the lower thigh. Hips well
covered and fitting neatly into the body.
Hide thick, yet pliable. Hair thick, soft
and rich-red in color. Splashed white and
white back are very objectionable.
A good bull should be well filled across
the chine, for that is where the rib
roasts come from. Flank should be deep
and level'with the underline. Taking a
side view, the legs should run in a straight
line from top to bottom, and be set out-
side the body. A good Hereford sire
should have a well-balanced, masculine
appearance.
N.Q. Pasture Improvement.
“K.W.R”: Success in dairying and
cattle fattening in N.Q’s. wet tropi-
cal belt has been due largely to the de-
velopment of imported grasses such as
Para, Guinea and molasses, and to the
wise management of pastures. Of the
cultivated grasses, Guinea is considered
the best for the tropics. The three
varieties at present under observation
grow luxuriantly during the wet season,
yet resist dry weather and heavy stock-
ing better than most other grasses.
Guinea grass should be heavily grazed,
with spells of sufficient duration to
promote regrowth. If stock are unable
to keep the grass in check, it should be
mown or annually burnt to prevent rank,
stemmy growth. Phosphate deficiency
during dry months should be countered
by use of a lick. For quick pasture cover-
age a mixture of 41b. of Guinea grass seed
and Sib. of molasses seed per acre is
recommended.
In swampy flats and wet localities,
Para has proved a useful fodder for stock,
but during clry weather its protein content
declines rapidly, and it is slow of growth.
Where overstocking occurs weeds quickly
become established, and graziers are ad-
vised to leave a foot of cover all over the
ground in Para grass paddocks.
On steep slopes and newly cleared land,
molasses grass, with its high germina-
tion and rapid growth, is able to with-
stand weed growth and bind the soil. Its
chief disadvantage is the ease with which
it will burn and the intensity of the heat
generated. With molasses grass rota-
tional grazing is necessary, but it seems
to maintain a reasonably high protein
content throughout the year. A lick
“’ S’all right. Dad; I just come up for a breather .”
should be used to balance calcium de-
ficiency.
Among the legumes tested over the
past 10 years, the following show promise
for this class of country: Puero, a vigor-
ous perennial rambler, is relished by
stock and shows signs of mixing well
with Para grass; Stylo, or Brazilian
lucerne, is a plant of wide adaptability
which seems to thrive in both wet and
dry regions ; Samoan clover, a twining
herbaceous plant, is being tried in com-
bination with purple-top Guinea and
Paspalum serobiculatum. It promises to
be one of the most successful legumes
of the far north.
The Benanee Failure.
“Aichess”: I was surprised to-read (B.
19/2/’47) of a proposal to establish
citrus orchards at Benanee (N.S.W.), be-
hind which apparently hovers a hope to
revive the moribund old town of Euston.
Citrus could only flourish there with irri-
gation ; over 20 years ago it was tried.
Under the Border Railways Agreement
between N.S.W. and Victoria an area of
200,000 *acres was to be made available
in two years. An expensive pumping
plant was installed on the shores of Ben-
anee Lake, a still more expensive system
of channelling was constructed, over 100
farms were made available within the first
12 months, a water trust was set up and
there were strains of sweet-music every-
where.
Within a couple of years, however, the
only use being made of the water supply
was to fill stock watering places and do-
mestic tanks, an operation which could
be performed only once a year. Within
ten years many holdings had been amal-
gamated, the number of settlers had
dwindled to less than 40 and some of
them had been given financial assistance
by the Government to put down catch-
ment tanks, far cheaper than drawing on
the water pumped from Benanee Lake.
In 1939 the Water Trust was disban-
ded, pumping ceased altogether, and dur-
ing the war the plant was shifted to the
R.A.A.F. camp at Tocumwal. I doubt
whether there are today a dozen settlers
left and, on areas used exclusively for
grazing, they have a full-time job con-
tending with droughts and overdrafts.
What happened was that of the water
sent along the channels, owing to the
nature of the soil, 90 p.c. was lost in
seepage. So it looks as if citrus orchards
must remain as dreams unless a costly
new irrigation system with concrete chan-
nels is put in—and that would hardly pay.
“Corn and ’Taties.”
“Calos”: Heavy manuring is necessary
for good cobs well-filled with corn. It
is wise to add fertiliser by hand when
cobs are set if plenty of water is avail-
aole. For large plots the fertiliser can
be put in by drill. When sowing, the corn
should be placed in holes no more than
2in. deep and 2ft. to 3ft. apart. Gauge
the fertiliser so that l|lb. will serve a
drill one chain in length. If irrigation is
impracticable lighter manuring is advis-
able, For home use small sowings should
be made. For the 90-day varieties sow-
ings should be made every month from
early spring until the end of summer.
In coastal districts potatoes may be
planted in June, and later sowings made
at intervals until October. On the Table-
lands October and November are good
months. Special potato fertiliser will be
found valuable for light s'oils. For small
plots 281 b. of seed will plant a patch
about 12 yards square.
New land does not need manuring.
Old plantations should be treated with
well-decayed farm-manures either from
stable or field. Stockyard manure is good,
too, but is likely to introduce weeds.
Medium-sized tubers make the best
seed. Cut seed rots more quickly, and
more of the nutriment required for the
young plant escapes into the soil where
it is not so readily available. White-
skinned potatoes grow well on the coast.
Manhattans grow to a great size, but
often produce fewer tubers than the
brown or pink varieties, and when large
are apt to develop hollow centres.
Salt fos* Animals.
“Johnny”; Common salt consists of
two elements, sodium and chlorine, which
are the richest mineral constituents of
the blood of all animals, performing vital
functions in connection with cell-build-
ing, removal of waste products from the
body, etc. Animals deprived of salt
will continue in apparently good health
for a time, but eventually they fall away
and deaths will occur if salt is not given.
This is not so evident, though, where
bore-water has a reasonable salinity.
As to how much salt animals require,
here are authoritative figures. Cattle:
21b. to 2|lb. per head per month when
feed is succulent, and 11b. to per
month for the rest of the year—about
201 b. per head per annum. Sheep; as
little as 41b. per head per annum will
suffice. The animals will regulate their
consumption of salt according to require-
ments. I’ve found that when salt is first
made available to stock hungry for it an
occasional death will result from a form
of salt-poisoning—this is particularly so
in sheep.
Feeding Pigs.
“Mr.”: L. A. Downey, Victorian pig
expert, points out that tests made by his
department show that a pig fed on grain
alone takes about two months longer to
grow from weaning to heavy baconer
weight than a pig fed on grain with a
small quantity of meatmeal added to the
daily ration, and will eat times as
much grain as his sty-mate fed on both
grain and meatmeal.
As a standard ration for pigs raised on
wheat farms, Downey recommends the
following: To each bag of grain add 71b.
meatmeal, 51b. chaff (lucerne or clover;
otherwise green wheaten chaff), 21b.


Woman architect
advises wives on New
Homes <
&
Every housewife will agree that
there should be more women
architects to design homes from
a woman’s understanding View-
point. Well here are some ideas
for your new home supplied
especially for Cane-ite by a
woman architect.
mmm
IS
mm
The Kitchen
The smaller the kitchen the
less work there’ll be. It can
be larger if you make it your
daytime living room, with a
sunny alcove for your sewing
machine. Have three power
points there are going to
be new electrical work-savers
coming along in the future.
The Laundry
Don’t let this be the Cin-
derella of the house. Have it
open directly off the kitchen
and have it painted the same
soft green or pink as your
kitchen walls. This is where
I would have my built-in
linen cupboards. So handy
to put linen away after iron-
ing. Have a big permanent
ironing table in here, too.
Pantry
Try and place the pantry so
that you have to pass through
it when you go from the
kitchen to the dining room.
This cuts off' kitchen noises
and odors. Also saves you a
surprising amount of time in
setting the table and clearing
away. Speaking of avoiding
noises . . . Cane-ite walls and
ceilings insulate against sound
and give a much quieter house.
Insulation
Cane-ite walls and ceilings
keep your house cool in sum-
mer. Warm in winter. Your
house is a much more pleasant
place to live in all the year
round. So easy to erect, it
brings down your building
costs, too.
Insulate and Decorate with
P
Walls and Ceilings
Sold by hardware stores and timber merchants everywhere
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Australia’s
/f|UR country’s chief problem is to
increase the production of goods
and services for the people’s use.
Our capacity to produce such wealth
is great. It is not unlimited by any
means, but it is much greater than
we are now using.
Raw Materials, Work, Capital and
Enterprise are the means that we
must employ if we are to maintain
our living standards and improve on
them. Capital is not the least of these
means, and we should remind our-
selves that the only source of Capital
is in the savings of the people. A
Nation prospers when there is a con-
stant flow of Capital from savings
into enterprise.
This Bank has the resources to aid
men of enterprise, big and little, in
financing production, and in the de-
velopment of sound undertakings.
Enquiries should be made to the
Manager of Head Office, or of any of
its over 300 Branches.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
wealth-producing
THE
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BARK OF VICTORIA 110
ground limestone and £lb. salt. Mix as
the grain is being crushed and feed from
hoppers. The grain may be wheat or
barley or a mixture of the two (making
two-thirds of the total grain ration), the
remaining one-third comprising oats or
rye, or both.
Trees as Fences.
“M.T.V.R.”: When a grazier wants to
form a paddock he does so by erecting
a fence of split posts and wires. This es-
tablishes the desired limits, prevents stock
from straying, but does nothing ls
there any reason why trees should not be
planted all along these fences, so that in
time a good windbreak is created and
there is continuous shelter for stock when
sun is extremely hot, or when wind and
rain are unduly severe?
Surely land has a better value when it
is judiciously wooded —it certainly pre-
sents a better spectacle to the. eye. I have
been in country districts where there is
hardly a tree for miles and one sees stock
standing in the burning sun or pouring
rain. It is no wonder to me that country
people become apathetic and dull when
they are looking at a treeless plain all the
time.
Are These Records?
The shortage of breeding ewes was
vividly illustrated at the dispersal sale by
Goldsborough, Mort and Co., at Tulla,
Wakool (N.S.W.) on 28/2/'47, when the
total yarding averaged 465. lOd. a head,
3602 top two- and three-year-old ewes
averaged 60s. Bd. and 22,114 grown sheep,
including 8366 10-month-old weaners,
averaged 48s. sd.
Quality of the sheep was very high and
bidding brisk and free by buyers from
Riverina, the far South-West, the S.A.
Mallee and all Victoria. The details are
worth listing;
Five hundred 2-th. mated ewes, 635. a
head; 298 do., 60s. 6d.; 800 6-th. mated
ewes, 635. 6d.; 2004 do., 595.; 2350 do.,
575.; 671 do., 565.; 796 4-th. dry ewes,
545.; 1663 do., 485.; 92 10-month-old stud
ewes, 565. 6d.; 997 5-year-old ewes, 455.
6d.; 1638 6-year-olds, av. 395. 6d.; 1178
7-year-olds, 355.; 3995 w. weaners, av.
41s. 9d.; 4371 e. weaners, 475. 6d.; 1068
4-months-old unshorn e. Weaners, 355.;
1006 do. wethers, 30s. 6d.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: An excess of brine, salted
meat or salt can prove injurious and
deadly to pigs, A mustard-and-water
emetic followed by milk, white of egg,
one drachm of paregoric and one drachm
of ether is effective if administered soon
after the animal has shown symptoms of
thirst, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, giddiness
and blindness.
“Plane Creek”: Hard, dry feed com-
bined with bad water leads to impaction
in cattle. When the drinking water is
foul, cattle won’t drink it, and the dry,
coarse stuff they eat packs in the rumen,
setting up distressing symptoms. If
victims won't drink, water poured into
them by means of a rubber hose and a
funnel sometimes helps to clear the block-
age. Massage of the stomach wall after
water has been given is likely to have
good results. If possible, molasses should
be given to dairy cattle on dry feed
since it has a laxative effect. The mol-
asses may be sprayed over the dried-up
pastures or sprinkled over cut feed.
“Mr.”: To prevent mouth injury when
drenching sheep, slip a piece of rubber
tubing over the nozzle of the gun, allow-
ing it to project a little way over the
point. Drench with the nose held level
with the eyes, the animal standing
squarely on its four feet, With four
fingers under the lower jaw and the
thumb over the nose, hold the head in
position and pass the gun through the
side of the mouth, over the tongue and
between the back teeth. Inject slowly and
lower the head if the sheep tries to
cough.
“W. Court”: A large lump or swelling
on the top of a horse’s head indicates
poll evil or head fistula. This is a very
serious condition which rarely responds
to even the most expensive veterinary
treatment, which is not worth while unless
the nag is very valuable. However, it
is not difficult to prevent poll evil, which
is caused by horses standing in stalls
throwing up their heads suddenly and
striking overhead beams. Raising low
beams to a safe height removes the cause.
“Girrawheen”: In the S.A. “Journal of
Agriculture,” H. E. Orchard (Weeds Ad-
viser) recommends the following for weed
destruction: —11b. white arsenic, 11b.
washing soda, Igal. of water: boil on a
slow fire in the open until the liquid is
quite clear, and free from white particles,
give an occasional stir; care being taken
not to inhale the fumes, which are very
poisonous. The liquid should not be used
until cold, and should be broken down
by adding four gallons of water to each
gallon of solution.
“Sundowner”: To establish carob-trees
the beans are removed from the pods
and placed in a container, boiling water
poured over them and the seed left to
soak for half an hour. Sow in autumn
in moist friable soil in rows 2ft. apart,
the seed 6in. apart. Some seeds may
germinate dining the first year, others
may take two years. When raising seed-
lings for transplanting, care must be
taken not to cut the long taproot.
Nobody has yet worked out what a
farm hint is worth in saving of time,
effort and money, so only a mathematical
crank would try assessing the value of
over a thousand such hints sold for Is.
Handy Hints for the Farm probably con-
tains well over £ 1000-worth of informa-
tion, and is available from The Bulletin,
252 George-street, Sydney, or from news-
agents for Is. (Is. 2jd. posted).


Is your wife driving with
road
on
s£/
r-x
ys
m
i
¥
x,:
mm.
>w
■■■-'■; X:,
i
U\
she still driving on tyres that you are “making do ?? ?
Those tyres on which
C 3-47
you worried-through
the rationing years
might skid your car
into an accident on
the next strip of wet greasy road.
Or a blow-out on any sharp corner
—or even a stone. Tired tyres are
a danger to your family. Get a real
grip on the road with a new set of
Goodyear tyres.
Goodyear tyres are available every-
where. Fit them now and drive on
safety once again.
100 % natural rubber again in
GOODYEAR
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
*
mm
Where the
other car skidded
Goodyear grips as it
passes smoothly along .
In came Mrs. Noyse with the pudding.
Mr. Noyse poured some brandy oyer
the brown masterpiece of indigestibility
and struck a match. Blue flames curled
around the pudding, bringing excited
cheers from the children and gurgles
of delight from the baby. Mr. Noyse
felt that the Christmas spirit had returned.
When the time came for clearing away
the debris Tony was fast asleep with his
face in his plate. He was removed to
his bed to sleep off his debauch and the
baby was also bedded down.
Mr. and Mrs. Noyse, with a modicum
of reluctant help from Patricia and David,
disposed of the washing-up, after which
Mr. Noyse betook himself to the lounge
with a book, remarking something about
a quiet read. Five minutes later he was
snoring contentedly.'
“You’d better have a sleep, too, Patty,”
said Mrs. Noyse. “It’ll do you good
after that upset.”
Patricia went readily to her room. Her
mother turned her attention to David,
“You, too, David. What about a little
sleep?”
“I’m not sleepy.”
“Just lie down a while, dear. Take a
picture-book with you.”
David considered a moment.
“I’ll do my Meccano, if you like,” he
offered.
“All right, dear. Play with your Mec-
cano. But don’t wake your father.”
“I’ll do number 27. A conveyor
bridge out of book three. And I won’t
wake anyone. 'Not even Tony.”
In this generous spirit of co-operation
he went to his room.
FOR an hour, two hours, the Noyse
family, or most of it, slumbered
blissfully. It would probably have con-
tinued to do so even longer, but at four
o’clock it awoke to the loud and incessant
ringing of the front-door bell.
The baby howled loudly, Tony awoke
grizzling, Mrs. Noyse and Patricia were
rudely aroused and Mr. Noyse broke off
a snore in mid-blast, sprang off the
couch, and stumped sleepily to the front
door.
The cause of the trouble was Mrs.
Noyse’s brother from Dubbo, whose
habit of arriving unexpectedly and un-
announced was usually compensated for
by the charm and goodwill he radiated.
“Just thought I’d surprise you,” he
told the family. “Meant to get here in
time for dinner, but old Puffing Lizzy
broke down. Hullo, Pat. Hullo, Tony.
Where’s David?”
“He’s in the bedroom with his toys,”
said Mrs. Noyse. She looked into the
boys’ room, and amended her statement.
“At least, he was.”
“You must be hungry, Jack,” said Mrs.
Noyse. “Patricia, put the kettle on.”
“I could do with a snack,” admitted
her brother. “A bit of cold chicken,
perhaps?”
“Sure,” chipped in Mr. Noyse. “Come
along. I’ll get you a spot while you’re
waiting.”
They followed Mrs. Noyse to the kit-
chen, in time to see her open the frig,
and take out the dish.that contained the
chicken —or, rather, the dish that had
contained the chicken —for all that re-
mained was a miserable heap of bones,
picked clean.
Mrs. Noyse looked accusingly at her
husband.
“I thought you said it was too tough! ”
“What! You don’t think I ate the
damn’ thing?” her husband bellowed.
“Well, I’m sure I didn’t, and the
children have all been asleep—except
David, and he wouldn’t”
“David! Where is David?”
APPRISED by Tony of his uncle’s
arrival, David was just coming in
through the back door. Mr. Noyse
pounced on him.
“Did you eat this chicken?” he
roared.
“Ye-es,” faltered the boy.
“After all you said at dinner-time?”
“I felt hungry,” explained the back-
sliding vegetarian. “I didn’t mean to eat
it all, but I just seemed to keep on and
on and then all of a sudden there
wasn’t any left. All of a sudden there
wasn’t.”
For a moment his parents were at a
loss for words.
“Was it nice?” asked Mrs. Noyse’s
brother.
“That’s the funny thing about it,” said
David. “Mummy and Daddy thought it
was tough, but it wasn’t. It was lovely
and tender. P’raps it’s their teeth.”
“You little beast,” exploded Mrs. Noyse
in unwonted wrath. “You spoilt our
dinner for us and then you went and
wolfed the lot.”
“But I didn’t mean”—
“Never mind what you meant,” inter-
rupted his father. “How does this square
up with your highfalutin ideas? Did
you manage to forget that the chicken
had been running around?”
“Oh, no,” replied David earnestly.
“I’ve been thinking that over, Daddy.
I’ve been thinking over what you said
about the poultryman and the incubator,
and about that chicken being specially
hatched for us, and about us letting it
run around for a few months and enjoy
itself, and”
“Skip it,” said his father. “Come on,
Jack. We’ll have a drink while the
missus rustles up some sandwiches.”
He took a bottle from the refrigerator
and as they went into the lounge they
could hear a plaintive voice protesting to
Mrs. Noyse. “But, Mummy, I didn’t
really mean”


The Yalet razor
itself
strops
%
every
morning
gives
an edge like new
V2/127
OP ALL DEALERS • BRITISH MADE
ALL-YEAR ROUND
EVEN TEMPERATURE
SlAfflMl
'rife for full /ocfs ond |
arflculars to-day. They ]%&§
f, e freely given. *
oil 0
It*
mlatimt
PTY.
LTD.
HMD OFFICE; 190 Sussex Street, Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins Street, Melbourne; Shell Mouse,
Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM; .Shell House,
North Terrace. Adelaide. T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray St., Perth.
Agents: * BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street Brisbane. FLOWER, DAVIESS
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N.. Christchurch, Dunedin.
SMOKE-OH!
TO the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Ann opened her eyes and gazed about her.
She was laying on a couch in a large, modernly-
furnished room that she was positive she had
been in before.”— Serial story.
Like George Washington, she couldn’t
lie.
-b *b *b »b
“Love is a silly sort of a business, isn’t it?”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
And often more of a liability than an
asset,
. *b *b *b *b
“The qualifications to become a toastmaster
are a good voice (preferably baritone), excellent
diction and 30 guineas with which to buy a
uniform.” — "Sun.”
Plus the ability to rise to the occasion.
“Traffic in human eyes is becoming a racket
in the U.S.” — "Sunday Telegraph.” .
Old hands at the game find no shortage
of pupils.
•b *b *b *b
“Sometimes half the electric clocks in Syd-
ney are stopped.”—“ Daily Telegraph.”
And no one has the power to start
them.
•b *b *b *b
“In Michigan a husband owns his wifes
clothes. If she walks out on him he may chase
her down the street and tear them off her back.”
—“ D.T .”
Provided he can outstrip her.
•b *b *b *b.
“The bustle is here for some time.
— Woman’s paper.
It’ll keep hanging around indefinitely.
Revenge.
“A French opera baritone stabbed himself
with a real dagger; belie vine it to be the
property weapon.”— "Sunday Telegraph
When on the operatic stage
Don Juans nearing middle age
Can bellow in romantic clinches
Their passion at a range of inches,
While buxom Mimis pine away
From undernourishment, you may •
Acclaim the stabber’s infelicity
A welcome touch of authenticity.
And if you lack the courage to
Assassinate the tenor who
Gives Wagner an exhaustive hiding
And ends the farce by “suiciding,”
Perhaps on the ensuing night,
By means of inside help you might
Make, with a simple substitution.
Your comment on his execution.
P. M. Lusk.
Lament.
I mourn for these old houses:
Wind-desecrated hearths,
The rotting, flattened fences,
Untrodden, lonely paths.
I mourn for my old homesteads,
Their crumbled walls and bent —
Ah, were they in the city
They’d bring a fancy rent!
EN B.
Arab’s Farewell.
“Parting Kiss, Tears, for Bernborough.”
— Headline.
“I am never doing this,” lamented
Habbakuk Ali as he pocketed my 1500
piastres, “for anyone else but Your Ex-
cellency.”
“Be assured, Habbakuk Ali,” I con-
soled him. “I shall treat your horse even
as a brother. He shall be to me as the
sun, moon and stars.” Convulsed with
sobs, Ali tried to plant a kiss on the
horse’s nose. With an expression of acute
disgust the horse ducked efficiently.
“Pull yourself together, man,” I urged.
“You need have no cause for alarm. I
shall feed him abundantly, and he shall
rest for many hours each day.” The
horse, which appeared badly in need of
both treatments, eyed me -speculatively
and looked a shade less depressed.
“No, no, it is not that,” Ali wailed,
while a fresh cascade of tears inundated
the ancient grime of his cheeks.
“You are afraid perhaps that when I
have done with him he will be sold to
another, a cruel master? Or even,” my
voice took on a graver note, “to the
meat markets of Cairo? Have no fear
of that, Habbakuk Ali,” I stated with
conviction. “The cost of fattening him
alone”
“No, no, it is not that,” he keened
again. The deluge had now reached his
beard, from which the population was
emigrating to a drier climate. •
“Tell me, then,” I pressed him
tenderly. “Why do you weep?”
“Wellah! It is that I should ask two
thousand piastres!” bellowed Habbakuk
Ali.
PLUM.
Progress of a Campaign.
Hi Lo, Friday 4th : The 2743rd Route
Army under the brilliant General Hoo
Me has launched an all-out drive against
four separate Kuomintang armies. The
correspondent of Syndicated News
Services, Inc., who is covering the fight-
ing from the Communist Army’s base fan-
repair depot at Kum Up Soon, declares
that the well-equipped and well-trained
Communist forces will be irresistible, and
predicts that the first Central Govern-
ment army to be smashed will be that
commanded by General Ding Dong Go,
who has defiantly announced that he is
prepared to fight to the last man and the
last shell, provided he is able to buy
some guns and ammunition somewhere.
Go Bung, Tuesday Bth: General Un
Hung Wun, C.-in-C. of all Kuomintang
armies in the Yenan zone, accompanied
by his Chief-of-Staff General Dim Sho,
has set out by jeep on a two-day tour
of the 40,000 square mile area which is
expected to be the battlefield in the
forthcoming campaigns. From Combined
Communist Base Records depot at Sum
•Kop, where he is covering the fighting,
the special correspondent of Sydney Sun-
day “Sun’s” “Fact” supplement says
that in General Oh Bi Gum the Com-
munist crack 1105th Army Corps has not
only a military genius comparable with
Koniev, but a fanatic whose burning
faith in a sacred cause inspires his men,
who will follow him to the death.
Sing Hi,. Friday 11th: Communist
headquarters at Long Wei Awei an-
nounce that their army under General
Hoo Me inflicted a crushing defeat on
the Central Government forces under
“Get off, Henry, and give Dobbin
a push.”
General Ding Dong Go, leaving at least
400,000 Government troops dead on the
battlefield, including the commanding
general, who was identified by hys almond
eyes and his habit of blinking rapidly
when excited. Mopping-up operations
are continuing and enormous booty has
been captured, including one field piece
without a barrel, three Mauser rifles
which only need triggers and magazines,
and some birds’ nests, rope sandals, box
kites, praying mats and half-trained
canaries in cages.
Sing Lo, Sunday 13th: General Ding
Dong Go has announced from his Grand
Headquarters at Gin Sling that he is
now ready to meet any challenge, having
bought up large quantities of artillery
and machine-guns from the Communist
General Oh Bi Gum, who has now gone
over to the Kuomintang armies as Chief
of Strategy,
Yu Kow, Wednesday 16th: The
special correspondent of the Moose
Rapids (Pa.) “Monitor,” who is covering
the Communist Army’s campaigns in
North China from the Corps horselines
400 miles south of where the fighting is
going on, reports that two great armies
are locked in a death grip near For
Chow. The fighting is taking place in
the middle of the Hang Mo River, into
which each side brilliantly manoeuvred
the other. Casualties arfc believed to be
on a stupendous scale. In a graphic
despatch the correspondent describes how
the brilliant Communist General Hoo
Me was drowned in his jeep through the
treachery of one of his staff, who pointed
out a “safe” place for him to ford the
river, which at that spot was 40 feet deep
with a 12-knot current.
Bing Sing, Sunday 20th :
General Hoo Me has an-
nounced that what will
go down in history as the
Battle of the Hang Mo, in
which the fiercest fighting
of the Civil War occurred,
resulted in several of the
combatants being taken to
hospital suffering from eel
bites and the effects of be-
ing jabbed in the eye with
poppy stalks. The cor-
respondent of the “Daily
Yellowgraph” learns on the highest
authority that General Ding Dong Go
had forgotten that there was no ammuni-
tion to fit the artillery and machine-guns
bought from General Oh Bi Gum, whilst
the ammunition dispatched to General
Hoo Me’s army had been sold by his
Chief-of-Staff to freelance bandits opera-
ting around Brest Tung.
Tuesday 22nd : In an article “Prayda”
ridicules the suggestion that the new C.-
of-S. to the Communist General Me Too
is a Russian merely because he salutes
Stalin’s picture, conducts purges, dances
on his heels to Rimsky-Korsakov’s music,
has a private vodka distillery and signs
his battle orders “Alexei.” The paper
claims he is a Coraishman named Angus
McPhillamy, that Alexei is his nickname
and that anyway all Cornishmen drink
vodka.
Swing Fan, Thursday 24th : A com-
munique from General Un Hung Wun’s
headquarters announces that a train con-
taining 10 trucks full of Communist
paper dollars, presumably to pay General
Hoo Me’s troops, was captured near Ting
Ling Ling. It is estimated that it will
almost be sufficient tP buy a new gasket
for General Un Hung Wun’s staff car,
Bi Cli, Wednesday 30th : The corres-
pondent of the “Daily Thrill,” who is
covering the campaign from the Com-
munist 1781st Route Army’s baggage
depot at Li Lo, claims that General Ding
Dong Go, who has gone over to the
Communists, inflicted a crushing de-
feat on General Hoo Me, Who was bribed
with a pair of American plastic braces
to go over to the Central Government
forces. The battlefield is estimated to
be littered with 1,495,211 dead.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line;'all others 2£d. per line.
Good Islanders
I have been turning up a Bulletin
article I wrote 21 years ago, “Helping the
Family Tucker-Bag.”, It was about Aus-
tralia’s own islanders of the Torres Strait,
and emphasised that the progressive is-
landers were not “lazy niggers” living on
the charity of white brother. At that time
the 3000 inhabitants of Torres Strait had
945 Savings Bank accounts, 240 boys
had signed on pearling luggers and
another 350 worked their own island
cutters and luggers. They contributed to
taxation, helped to build their own
schools and were training native council-
lors and other officials as well as having
ordained native clergy. “If the next 10
years shows a corresponding increase, the
80 miles or so of reef-island between
Cape York and New Guinea will prove a
valuable asset to this continent of ours,”
was ray glance into the future.
That' wasn’t a bad prophecy. At the
beginning of the 1939 -45 war the
islander was ready to do his part. In the
previous scrap he had wanted to volun-
teer for service, but “white prestige” and
the idea of Jimmy Susu engaged in a
scrap against whites didn’t find favor.
Things assumed a different aspect when
the Japs came into the picture. Jimmy
and his friends hopped into the fight
eagerly. Sailing their luggers and,canoes,
they turned to good account their know-
ledge of the reef-strewn waters which be-
came such an important highway.
Trained to quick and careful observa-
tion, they brought in information of
strategic value. Over 700 of the virile,
tough-muscled boys were enrolled in the
Torres Strait Infantry at Thursday Island
with their own n.c.os., and their apti-
tude in training and general alertness
bought enconiums fom their commanding
officers and white comrades. Some of
them got as far as England and the
Middle East—one of my old boat-boys
was immensely intrigued at being able to
tell his people he had seen the King.
The European officials in charge of the
islands .and white missionaries had to be
evacuated- during the war years, but the
islanders carried on with native officials
and clergy doing the job, and doing it
well.
Now things are getting straight again
in this part of Australia’s tropic posses-
sions, The head-hunters of 80 years ago
are resuming the pearling and the trochus-
shellipg and the beche-de-mer fishing.
“M.0.P.” is up to £6OO a tpn (£l6O was a
good price in my time!), and trochus is
“good price” also. The Director of
Native Affairs guides things generally,
but increased responsibility has been
given to the people who, so friends used
to tell me, “were not fit for it and never
would be!”
There are changes, of course, but gen-
erally in the right direction. Families
own their own cutters and luggers. Island
“skin divers” still go down to the old 16
fathoms or so with only a protection over
the eyes, but the two-eye swimming-
glasses are replaced by a single circular
attachment which fits down over the eyes
and nose. Each important group of
islands has its own store and hospital
under native care; native clergy and
churchwardens look after the churches;
there is a training college for Govern-
ment native teachers on one island under
an official who has been in the islands for
20 years. The Anglican Mission is re-
suming its high schools at St. Paul’s, and
its college for native priests at Thursday
Island. The Government is returning to
its scheme of technical training under ex-
perienced teachers, and there hre signs of
further development.
Naturally, the impact of the forces dur-
ing the war has had its effect. One re-
action is the desire for full educational
opportunities, and also for full constitu-
tional rights; but this must be expected,
since they ard not “glass-case” natives.
European officials returning to the larger
islands are finding that the last few years
have given the natives a wider outlook, a
deeper sense of their own capabilities and
a further desire for self-government. The
Queensland Government (the islands are
within Queensland territorial boundaries)
is doing a worthwhile job in a commend-
able way in its. handling of the people of
the Strait. —C. C. (Tas.).
Darwin
So “W.X.” (B. 12/2/’47) believes there
was no looting at Darwin. Some material
may have been commandeered for the
construction of gun-pits, but were the
slit-trenches lined with ladies’ lingerie,
perambulators, sewing machines, silver
cups won as trophies in pre-war days,
private letters, photographs, children’s
christening mugs or pianos? All these
things were looted from empty houses,
even though they Had been carefully
packed by their owners before leaving.
The fact that photographs, football and
other trophies and personal belongings
of Darwin folk were picked up-in aban-
doned military camps miles distant speaks
for itself.
When the Commonwealth Government
evacuated civilians from Darwin some
folk asked what would become of their
property. The Commonwealth answered
that it was the business of the Army ; the
Army retorted that it had nothing to do
with civilians. Between the two the un-
fortunate civilian found himself totally
unprotected.
Some of us have examined old slit-
trenches and gun-pits and ammo dumps.
We’ve found a few odd pieces of our
household treasures, smashed and bat-
tered, but we haven’t found our refrigera-
tors, our wardrobes or our dressing-tables.
We haven’t found our crockery or our
cutlery, our pianos or our saucepans or
our beds or our radios. We were not
allowed to take these goods away with
us —one suitcase, weighing 351 b., was all
that each of us was allowed. —J. L. (N.T.).
Soldiers’ Pensions
Permanently incapacitated men do not
receive £4 16s. (B. 22/1/’47) a week sub-
ject to a means test. I have been per-
manently incapacitated since the 1914-18
war, but I have been on the Second
Schedule (£4 165.) for only six months.
Until last year I was classed 100 per cent.
“Jolly good idea, Reynolds. It gives the bally beast a sporting chance .”
incapacitated and received £2 10s. a week,
which was, and still is, the full pension.
The Second Schedule pension is paid to
men under the special classifications Total
and Permanently Incapacitated or Total
and Temporarily Incapacitated. And, be-
lieve me, a man has to be totally in-
capacitated before he gets this pension,
which is paid only to men incapable of
earning more than a negligible proportion
of the basic wage.
I know of no means test, though I
believe a man is liable to reclassification
and reduction in pension if he engages in
any regular work. But he must be
absolutely incapable of working before
he gets the special pension. The per-
centage of disabled men on £4 16s. weekly
must be very small —I am the only one
in my district and our new postmaster
told me it was the first time he had paid
such a pension.—T. & P. I. (Vic.).
High Cost of Justice
There has been constant complaint
about the cost of litigation in our courts,
but nothing effective has been done about
it. True, in some of our courts a liti-
gant can, on proving that his assets do
not exceed a certain sum, obtain remis-
sion of court fees, but before he gets such
an order he must furnish an opinion by
counsel that he has a good cause of
action. This entails the preparation by
a solicitor of a case for counsel’s opinion,
and in such cases as undefended divorce
petitions the cost of obtaining the order
exceeds the amount of court fees saved.
In protracted hearings court fees are only
a drop in the ocean of costs.
Solicitors often have to refuse good,
just cases because clients cannot face the
expense entailed. In other words, these
unfortunates cannot afford the price of
justice. That is a serious defect in our
social economy. No man should be
forced to face financial ruin to get his
legal rights.
In our cities there must be hundreds
of young barristers and solicitors not
making the equivalent of the basic wage.
Many of them start off with high acad-
emic qualifications but get nowhere.
Those in the top layer make good in-
comes, but the public would be surprised
at the general average income of legal
men. The reason is that the price of
their wares is beyond the purchasing
power of their market.
: If there could be an all-round reduc-
tion of court fees and legal charges prac-
titioners would make up for smaller fees
with a greater volume of work. At an
Australian legal conference in Brisbane
a few years ago the matter was raised by
the late Justice .Halse Rogers, but his was
a lone voice. Recently, in the U.S.A.,
a few bureaus have been set up with
charges for specified jobs reduced to
reasonable figures. The charges are made
known to clients before the work is un-
dertaken, and apparently they are suffi-
cent to keep the concerns going.
Time and cash are sometimes saved
by arbitration, but it is not always satis-
factory, particularly where there are
mixed questions of law and fact involved.
The only real method of bringing justice
within the reach of every man is an all-
round reduction in the cost of it. —X.
Leckes (Q.>,
Jews
They are not all alike, but being an
exclusive race they run fairly true to form
the world over. To know how they will
behave here we must study their record
elsewhere. They cling to the cities and
form racial groups. They like to be their
own bosses or to work with other Jews in
order to avoid friction regarding for-
bidden meats and Sabbatic rules.
In cities like London they have a hijgh
record for school attendance, sobriety,
and industry. They prefer to spend their
leisure time profitably at home and fre-
quently turn their spare room into a
tiny factory. One typical family in Aus-
tralia has a standing contract for shelling
almonds. They are quite content to
spend their evenings sitting round a
table making money while their Gentile
neighbors are spending money at the
pitchers.
As students they are brilliant, usually
ignoring sport and concentrating on
classes. Such behavior can be very annoy-
ing to more casual competitors. Tireless
ambition and energy tend to make the
employer a sweater and the employee
easily sweated. Centuries of oppression
have taught the Jew every guerilla trick
in the struggle for existence. He is
always a stranger in a strange land be-
cause he refuses to dissolve in any racial
melting pot.
Nevertheless the average Jew is a good
citizen. To compete with him means
hard work. To suppress him seems im-
possible. To control him requires under-
standing which can come only from
studying the history of the race and the
psychology of the individual. — Gentile
(S.A.)
Greeks
I should like to advance the claims
of the Greek as a most useful type of
immigrant.
In my particular district there is a
number of them working either as cafe
proprietors or market gardeners. They
have been most successful in both voca-
tions. The gardens are established along
a stream near to the town, gardens laid
out and pumping plants and reticulation
schemes installed without assistance from
boards or anyone.
The enterprise and agricultural ability
of the settlers mean that the townspeople
can usually buy fresh vegetables from
the local shops or get them fresher and
cheaper by visiting the gardens.
As manager of a local bank I meet
a number of these settlers almost daily.
With few exceptions they are most law-
abiding, anxious to live in harmony with
the people of this land and ready to'be
good Australians. Their children are
attending our schools and assimilating
our ideas and ideals. In about two gen-
erations they will hardly be known other
than by name from our own people.
Perhaps their greatest fault in the eyes
of many is that they are industrious and
intensely loyal to their families and
friends.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.)
Gift Duty
A month after the gift duty be-
came law I bought a house in the joint
names of my wife and myself. The
following year I joined the R.A.N., where
I still am, having been refused demobilisa-
tion several times. Today I got my
birthday present from the Government
—a demand for £2O ss. gift duty on the
ground that T had made my wife a gift
of half the house—not yet paid for, in-
cidentally.
My solicitor tells me that the “wife
and child allowance” paid to my wife
by the Navy—4s. 6d. daily for herself,
3s. for one child and 2s. for another—
is held by the taxation authorities to
be a gift from me and subject to gift
duty as. such.
It would have been easier to bail me
up with a gun and get this £2O ss. Cer-
tainly it would have been as honest, even
if not as legal.— Benbow (N.S.W.).
The Drought in Queensland
I’d like to endorse “MM.J.’s” remarks
(B. 22/1 / ’47) about drought and labor
conditions in Australia, with a few facts
from Western Queensland. For many
months from Toowoomba westwards one
continually saw bare, cracked, sun-
scorched earth stretching for miles.
Occasionally a few straggly stalks of
dry grass appeared, but most food had
been eaten off to the roots many months
before.
Near Morven, one property, running
19,000 head of cattle, received a heavy
storm in January, and as the green feed
appeared the stock were mustered and
counted. Only 1100 remained alive. At
one waterhole alone over a thousand car-
casses had to be dragged from the muddy
banks where, coming in for a drink, they
had been too weak to drag themselves
out of the muddy ground. In the same
district another grazier lost 10,000 of his
herd of 13,000. The drought was so wide-
spread that it was impossible to find
agistment.
The peoples of the cities rely on
outback folk for their meat, their woollen
clothes, leather for their boots and many
other things. Yet they seem strangely
indifferent to the catastrophe that the
pastoral industry has suffered. — Wes-
terner (Q.).
The Melbourne Shrine
With the concurrence of the State
Government, trustees of the Victorian
Shrine of Remembrance are calling for
suggestions for a new memorial to the
men and women of the 1939-45 war, to
be erected in conjunction with the present
shrine at a cost not exceeding £60,000.
The competition is to be confined to per-
sons who served in H.M. forces in either
war, and is to take the form of a prize
thesis as to how the shrine can be ex-
tended and the extension integrated with
the old structure. Later there will be an
architectural competition for a design
that will blend harmoniously both
spiritually and architecturally.
It will tax the architectural imagination
to do it. The present shrine is a more
or less accurate copy of the tomb of
King Mausolus (died 353 b.c.), which was
erected by his Queen Artemius. Now
that it has weathered it has acquired a
patina which helps to soften the some-
what stark academic contours of Paul
Montford’s lions and heroic figures. The
material is the magnificent marble of
Buchan (Vic.), and it cost close on a
quarter of a million. When the judges
failed to come to a decision General
Monash was called in and gave the de-
cision in favor of two young architects
who were ex-A.I.F. men.
The shrine has four facades similar ia
appearance and rising to a peak, and it is
of such severely classical design that it
is difficult to imagine how it could be
added to without being spoiled. It would
be like altering the Aphrodite in the
National Gallery or adding a few lines to
a sonnet by Shakspeare. The single plan
would be affected if a fa?ade were ex-
tended, and to put a second story on it
would be like putting a top hat on a
statue. If anybody is to judge of any
proposed alterations they should be the
original designers.— Melbn (Vic.).


Women’s Services
I see that the question of overseas
service of women members of the services
is still a live one. Two factors seem to
have been overlooked. First, the number
of women available was not even suffi-
cient to meet requirements within Aus-
tralia and, until a reduction in home
establishments was practicable, none
could be spared to be sent outside Aus-
tralia.
Second, in nearly every case jobs
which could have been done by women
in operational areas were being filled by
men unsuitable for front-line service be-
cause of medical unfitness, age, lack of
recent training or general unsuitability
for operational duties.
In practice it often worked out like
this; girls were sent from, say, a base
in N. S. Wales to Port Moresby for typ-
ing and clerical duties. The men they
released at Port Moresby were either B-
class or unfit for some other reason and
were moved down to N. S. Wales for
typing or clerical jobs which the girls had
filled there.
The saving, therefore, was nil and the
expenses of moving both parties, of erec-
tion of special quarters for the women,
and of provision of guards for their
camps were considerable. For those
reasons those who were not swayed
by sentiment were opposed to sending
other than nursing sisters into operational
areas. In the case of nursing sisters there
was nobody else who could do their work
as well as they did. —S. W. (Athens,
Greece).
Japs and P.-0.-W.
That nasty word “collaboration”
holds the key to the situation. “Sgt.
Damocles” (B. 19/2/’47) states “we feared
a little that we had not been completely
protected against a future slur” and,
later, “we saw no cases of collabora-
tion.” Those two statements hardly tally,
but I know that he means “no dirty
linen,” and he’s quite right. We, too,
on the Burma Line had to face up to
interminable query sheets as to our pre-
war occupations. Most of us answered
“laborer,” as our Korean guards took a
poor view of any more humorous answer.
But those men who deliberately denied
their ability so that they would be forced
to do coolie-work only don’t feel so good
about moral weaklings who directly or
indirectly allowed the Japs to make use
of their technical qualifications. The
price wasn’t even 30 pieces of silver —
only a bit better tucker and slightly
easier living conditions than their mates.
I take strong exception to the remarks
of some of our high-ranking Malayan
leaders reported as “speaking for us all.”
There are very few military leaders who
have earned the right to do that —
John Monash did in 1914-18 —but I
don’t know about our Malayan leaders.
Then we read “We all did the same and
are all in the same boat.” That’s an
insult to my comrades who died working
as coolies under worse than coolie con-
ditions because they refused to give the
enemy the benefit of their real ability.
—Re-Tread (Vic.).
Words
During the war words by the million
were written and spoken. Of all those
words the average brain can remember
only a few:
Churchill on the Battle of Britain;
“Never have so. many owed so much to so
few.”
The listed items of the Four Freedoms:
“Freedom from want, freedom from fear,
freedom of religion, freedom of speech.”
The lines taken from the King’s Christmas
broadcast: “I said to the man who stood at
the gate of the year, ‘Give me a light that I
may tread safely into the unknown.’ He
replied, ‘Go out into the darkness and put
your hand into the hand of God. That
shall be to you better than light, and safer
than a known way.’ ”
Of these three quotations I consider even
the first two as transient ip comparison
with the sublimity inherent in the third. —
T. J. P. (N.S.W.).
Pearling
I agree with “C. Turner” (B. 19/2/’47)
that the pearling industry is by no means
exhausted —early last year, before the
first of a small post-war fleet put to see,
Scwt. of first-grade shell was won from
i dry reef at the Lacepede Islands and a
30-grain pearl was found on a similar dry
reef at Coconut Well (Roebuck Biay,
W.A.). If these easily accessible, worked-
out reefs have taken on a new lease of
life while the fleets were idle during the
war years, the. rejuvenating effect on the
deep-water reefs must have been even
greater.
“C.T.’s” knowledge of pearling must
be very' limited, however, if he cannot
see why Australians are not interested in
the industry. How many young men
with the necessary spirit have £2OOO with
which to buy and equip a lugger? There
are many who are interested; there are
many like myself who have tried, but.
without capital, have been unable to get
beyond the beachcombing stage —not a
profitable business.
The Government proposes to train
suitable ex-servicemen as pearl-divers.
Apparently two very important aspects
have received little or no consideration.
Would it be fair to expect the industry to
pay the high wages that the Australian
diver would be quite justified in asking?
The type of diving most people are
familiar with is carried on around
harbors, and consists mainly of repairs
to wharves, docks and shipping. For this
class of work the rate of pay is about
£1 per hour for all time spent be-
neath the surface. There is no com-
parison between this and pearl-diving.
The divers’ cemetery (Broome, W.A.) and
the human wrecks shuffling around
Broome’s streets are grim examples of the
dangerous nature of this work.
Can the industry be carried on profit-
ably on a 40-hour-week basis? No'. It
is possible to dive only during neap
tides about 14 days out of every
28 —and for only nine months of the
year. The Japs found it necessary to
work the longest possible hours that
underwater visibility would permit to
harvest a profitable quantity of shell.
Only on rpre occasions, when an excep-
tionally rich patch of shell is found, are
large quantities won in a short time.
A really good plan would be to train
suitable ex-servicemen as pearlers, set
them up with a fully-equipped lugger
“It's too late now, but I think it WAS pistols.”
and let them employ some of their former
enemies on a similar, but more controlled,
basis than before the war. With the
price of shell higher than it has ever
been and the demand greater, good re-
turns are assured any sensible man start-
ing out with a good working knowledge
of the game.— Yagoo (S.A.).
Imported
A friend of mine had a few
odds and ends of machinery with which
he could erect a passable bush sawmill.
Close to the spot where I wanted to build
on my farm there was a useless hill
covered with good pine and other build-
ing timbers. We found that if I bought
the hill for £4O we could get enough
timber off it to build my house, supply
other farmers, clear the hill and bring it
under the plough.
There was a snag—royalty. I could
import my timber at less cost than
the local stuff, plus royalty. No sawmill
was erected, and I got my timber from
Canada. — Sugar (Q.).
Friendly Societies
One particularly unfortunate result of
the so-called “social services” policy of the
Federal “Government” is the killing of
the spirit of independence shown by the
friendly societies, non-sectarian and
non-political organisations. In these so-
cieties thrifty and independent people
have banded themselves into voluntary
co-operative assurance societies for
mutual help in times of sickness. No
Government subsidy was asked or given,
and by voluntary self-taxation and effici-
ent management these concerns have
built up substantial reserves to ensure
solvency and ability to meet anticipated
calls. Medical services, medicine, sick
benefits and funeral expenses have been
provided at a very reasonable individual
charge. • •
This system, over 100 years old, is now
threatened with destruction by so-called
“national” social services, financed by
heavy taxation and administered in the
usual expensive bureaucratic fashion. As
an Oddfellow for over 40 years I object
to paying ope shilling in every pound of
my income in order to provide free medi-
cal, dental, sickness, unemployment and
other social services for those who are
too thriftless to provide for themselves.
The tendency to value what is pro-
vided for nothing at precisely the same
figure has been demonstrated recently in
Brisbane, when many bottles of “free”
medicine were found thrown away out-
side the General Hospital. That certainly
never happened at a friendly society dis-
pensary.—N. K. (Q.).
Binghi
Control of aboriginals certainly should
be placed in the hands of those who have
had long experience among them (B.
12/2/’47). In Queensland the position of
“Protector of Aboriginals” is just another
unpaid job wished on to the local police
officer by the Government. Large sums
of money (wages, etc.), have to be col-
lected by this officer, and he is held re-
sponsible for the management and bank-
ing of these funds. He is looked upon as
a source of cheap labor by graziers, he
is expected to provide meals at a bob
for drifting abos, and he spends his so-
called leisure hours toiling over abo-
riginal accounts.
His too-numerous duties are almost
daily interrupted by the “black cloud”
which darkens his doorstep and requests
cash advances or “shirt and ’lastic boots,
boss.” As a rule he has had little pre-
vious dealings with abos, and their ways
will probably ngver be understood by
him. It is little wonder he looks sourly
upon his unasked-for title and develops
no great love for those responsible for it.
The frequent urgent demand from a
desk wallah in the city for him to provide
forthwith a thumbprint from Jimmy
Charcoal on some document, although
Jimmy might be a hundred or more
miles out bush, does not increase his re-
gard for the system. The mission native,
nearly always a lazy and untrustworthy
individual, shows just how little has been
achieved in these institutions after many
years of trial.
By all means leave the aboriginal to
those who know him and have his interest
at heart, but for Heaven’s sake leave
these administrators free from the red
tape which is the curse of the present
administration!— Jack of all Trades
(Q.).
A Letter from London
I was very amused by The Bulletin’s
sub-leader on Mr. Chifley’s prowess as an
engine-driver (B. 11/12/’46), and had
much pleasure in sending it on to Whita-
ker. They acknowledged neither my ac-
companying letter nor one I wrote in
September asking for some authority for
the statement that Mr. Chifley was “the
best railway engine-driver in the Com-
monwealth.” I am now looking out for
the 1947 Almanack to see if the yarn is
repeated.
In a broadcast of the Royal tour in
S’Africa it was stated that a large number
of engine-drivers would drive in turn,
“each of them knowing the section over
which he drove like the palm of his
hand.” This, of course, is the determin-
ing factor in choosing drivers for special
jobs. There would be a free-for-all if
someone gave out that Jan Shipperke
was the best driver in S’Africa.
I was reminded of another Bulletin
comment when I read the middle page of
“The Times” and saw
Mr. skid that he would live in
London “as any Englishman lives today.
My wife and I are not taking anything
special in the way of food or luxuries with
us.”
Anyone suggesting that “Beasley”
would be right name to fill the gap would
be wrong. Correct answer is Douglas,
the new American Ambassador.
All the same I hope that the Douglasses
get some parcels from some American
friends. We should find the ration some-
what inadequate if it were not for the
kindness of those who have maintained
a steady flow of food to us. I see in the
Australian “Newsletter,” received frorri
Australia House, that all available
food for Britain has been shipped, and
that the lag in sugar shipments has been
overcome. A little while ago it was
Stated officially in Australia that shortage
of tinplate would hold up the canning of
meat for Britain, yet in a recent parcel I
received both sweet corn and asparagus
tips canned in Australia. They were very
good, too —first tins like that we’d seen
for seven years.
The yells about parcels not arriving
seem to have died down—we have had
practically every parcel advised as addres-
sed to us, except a few in U-boat days.
Moreover, I have never had a parcel held
up by the Customs, nor any query from
anyone, except that the London G.P.O.
once sent me a Customs declaration
form that had become detached and said
that if I hadn’t received the parcel it
would make further inquiries.
But a friend who is chief constable of
a county told me that an American
friend who was told that the limit of one
kind of food- in one parcel was two
pounds promptly made up a dozen two-
pound parcels of bacon and posted them
at different P.Os. in New York. The
British Customs confiscated the lot —
even, as my friend sorrowfully said, the
one that he was legally entitled to re-
ceive. It was such attempted evasions
that were penalised and led to loose talk
of confiscations. Bulk parcels were of
course distributed by a local committee
—a newspaper had a picture of the A.-G.
for Victoria handing out parcels to a
crowd in Wandsworth.
Please excuse the typing errors —we
have no lights from 9 a.m. to noon and
from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. This is to help
to retrieve the raess into which our
Cabinet of Master-Planners has got the
fuel and light industries. Pity Australia
has no coal export trade now—we here
could do with some of it if unionists
would cut and load it. However, the
Government is “considering” starting
greyhound racing again. Labor Govern-
ments seem alike all over the world. —
B.M.H. (London).
Industrial Arbitration
Much of the talk about “streamlining”
and otherwise improving Commonwealth
Arbitration Court procedure suggests
that the critics have little knowledge of
the real workings of the Court or of the
history of arbitration under Common-
wealth jurisdiction.
The chief charges laid against the in-
dustrial machinery of the Commonwealth
are that the Court is too slow,
pays too much attention to arbitration
and too little to conciliation, and doesn’t
settle strikes anyhow.
Compared with othej- courts of law, the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court is very
speedy in hearing matters referred to it.
Urgent matters are frequently heard by
Arbitration Judges within a day or so
after they have been referred to the
Registrar.
Matters such as basic-wage or standard-
hours determination naturally require
lengthy investigation, and it is usual for
all persons or organisations who are con-
cerned to be given the opportunity of
presenting their views to the Court. Any
speeding up of such proceedings would
mean excluding a good deal of rele-
vant testimony. The desirability of
limiting evidence to save , time in
reaching a decision is debatable, but
this aspect concerns relatively few
of the matters coming before the Court.
Most matters are dealt with by a single
Judge and handled promptly.
As to conciliation, the critics appear
to overlook that this is provided for in
the Act; indeed Conciliation Commis-
sioners have rendered useful service. In
most cases the approach to the- Court is
made only after conferences of the parties
concerned have explored the prospects of
settlement and have failed.
The claim that the Court doesn’t settle
strikes will simply not hold water. Most
strikes are ultimately settled on a basis
laid down by the Court. Its inability to
prevent strikes from occurring or from
continuing for lengthy periods lies not
in any defect of the Arbitration Act but
in the unwillingness of certain organisa-
tions to accept decisions ; i.e., in their re-
fusal to see that arbitration would serve
their interests better than direct action.
Until the principle of arbitration is
accepted by industrial organisations in
general, talk of improving the Arbitra-
tion Act is a waste of words.—
WuSSLEAN (Vic.).


A POLL conducted throughout Australia hy Opinion Research
discloses that:
most
motorists
want
motor spirit
of Jtgfeasd)
M
This certifies that “Opinion
recently conducted an Australia-wide poll
among car and truck owners for their
opinions on certain matters associated with
petrol. One of many questions asked was;
“When the pool ends, which petrol are yon likely to
try first ? ”
Nearly all named a brand in answer to this
question. Of those who so answered, sub-
stantially more thar 50 % said "Shell.”
The poll was conducted along strictly scien-
tific lines. The number of owners inter-
viewed, and their subdivision according to
income groups, gave an adequate and accur-
ate cross-section of motoring opinion. Strict
measures were taken to ensure that nothing
but honest, unbiased opinions were called
forth by the questions.
Manager.
“Opinion Research,” 352 Collins Street}
Melbourne.
"Opinion Research” is supervised by Roy
Morgan, foundtr and manager of the Australian
Gallup Roll.
A
I" I 1 ■■■ II - V s. r i
r©BzS)l .Shell petrol will very soon be in the pumps
again© The Petrol Pool ends sho rll y Q YOU CAN BE SURE OF SHELL
tHi SNELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED {lfl'esppsfktAd 'in Great Britain}
6465,
