

The House of Seppelt ... producers of
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 68—-No. 3515
Wednesday, June 25, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmissi on by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
RELIC OF THE FRANCISCANS IS CASTLEDERMOTT’S IVIED RUIN
HTHE once-splendid Abbey at Castledermott in county Kildare,
A Ireland, possesses a history which goes back to the year 800 a.d.,
when it was built by Diarmid, son of Aedh Roin, a king of ancient
Ulfdia. During the Danish invasions and the Anglo-Norman wars
Castledermott Abbey was repeatedly plundered and burned, then
rebuilt or restored, until 1650, when it was partly destroyed—it is
said, by Cromwellian soldiery—and, in the turbulent period which
followed, the Abbey was left to decay. To this day, however,
enough of the structure remains to attest to its former splendour,
the archways and some of the windows still being in a fair state
of preservation. Built for Franciscan monks, Castledermott Abbey
stands as a reminder of days when the poor of the neighbourhood
were ministered to by the unselfish devotion of men who felt the
humanitarian urge to service.


lilkl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Boolciet explaining how to Write jot Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Same
M v A ddrest
?.B. 147 AGE
The Red Page
BEARS AND MRS. THRALE.
When Mrs. Thrale was alive it was
customary to fall in love with her. At
the advanced age of 80, when, accord-
ing to C. E. Vulliamy in Ursa Major
(Michael Joseph ; Angus and Robertson),
her appearance was “vital, incendiary
and amazing,” she captured the-affection
of a young actor named Conway, whom
she called her “towering tulip.”
Even Mr. Vulliamy, who is remarkably
free from susceptibility to Mrs. Thrale’s
charms at all stages of her career, admits
that there was mutual affection between
the “tulip” and the dauntless old lady.
Conway thought of Mrs. Thrale (or Mrs.
Piozzi as she was then) as “his dearly
attached friend.”
The actor, though perhaps he had in-
telligence as well as a noble set of
whiskers, was a foolish and probably
effeminate young man who eventually
jumped off a ship and drowned himself.
But Tom Moore was no fool, and he was
also something of a connoisseur of
femininity: “A wonderful old woman”
was his verdict. Whether or not Moore
was privileged to witness Mrs. Thrale
bathing in the sea at the age of 75 —a feat
in those days considered unseemly, un-
healthy and dangerous at any age—he
was obviously not repelled by her rouge,
her black beaver hat, her yellow wig and
her habit of punning as, particularly by
the puns, is Mr. Vulliamy.
Though the reporters of provincial
newspapers, having a tendency towards
excessive courtesy to local inhabitants,
are not always to be trusted, there is ob-
viously a basic truth in the ecstasies to
which the “Bath and Cheltenham
Gazette” was aroused when Mrs. Thrale
celebrated her 80th birthday at the King-
ston Assembly Rooms;
The ease and vivacity of manner which
characterises Mrs. Piozzi as an individual
pervaded every scene of her splendid enter-
tainment, and as she has shown herself to
be the living centre of good taste, as por-
trayed in social life, the present entertain-
ment will undoubtedly form an epoch in
the annals of fashionable entertainment.
Mr. Vulliamy, who suffers from no
tendency whatsoever towards excessive
courtesy where Mrs. Thrale is concerned,
hits the “Gazette” reporter on the head
with an exclamation mark for this daring
tribute, and comments, half jocularly,
“Not long afterwards the Kingston
Rooms were totally destroyed by fire:
perhaps a manifestation of celestial
wrath.” It is to be doubted whether
Heaven itself could match Mr. Vulliamy
in celestial wrath.
Taken all round, Ursa Major is
a fascinating study of all the mem-
bers of the Dr. Johnson circle: the
Great Bear himself, Boswell, and all the
lesser luminaries, each examined in lov-
ing and medical detail and, where poss-
ible, flayed alive. In contrast to D. B.
Wyndham Lewis, whose The Hooded
Hawk was recently reviewed here, Mr.
Vulliamy has style and a consistent view-
point.
Wyndham Lewis, dealing chiefly with
Wilkes and Boswell, bounced about
like an intoxicated frog. Mr. Vulliamy,
by contrast, is sober. His style is rich
and measured, his wit biting.
At first glance his investigation would
appear too coldly clinical, for, after guile-
lessly observing that Freudian analysis is
out of date, he opines that Johnson was
“the victim of a vast inferiority complex,”
that Mrs. Thrale suffered from “a social
anxiety neurosis,” that Boswell “from his
youth displayed all the symptoms of an
exhibitionist,” that Boswell (again) was
“a case of partial schizophrenia,” that
Rousseau was “also an exhibitionist,”
that George Psalmanazar was yet another
“exhibitionist” and that Johnson (once
more) was “an extravert in the full sense
of the word.” But Mr. Vulliamy uses
this vapid jargon seldom and then, per-
haps, only to establish his credentials, as
it were, to show that he can do it. Once
he has pasted up his Freudian label and
then, sensibly, forgotten about it, he pre-
sents lively characters; none more so
than Mr. Thrale, who (despite Johnson’s
respect for him) serves admirably until
his death in the role of clown:
Henry Thrale himself is the least agitated
and the least interesting figure in this
curious group. His thinking and his moving
are both exceedingly slow, and he is little
more than a torpid apparatus digesting a
series of heavy dinners. He is hardly vocal
at all. A solid, obscure creature, he is
now irrecoverably extinct; and he was not
often perceptibly animated even when he
was alive.
Mr. Vulliamy is equally delightful on
Sophy Streatfield —a lady, indeed, con-
cerning whom a satirist would find it
difficult not to be delightful: “Sophy was
beautiful in face and form, tears came
into her lovely eyes at will, she flirted
with elderly married men and especially
clergymen (preferably thin ones) of the
higher rank.”
With Boswell he is, of course, very
severe. Everybody is severe with Bos-
well. Macaulay started the game, and it
seems that there is still a good living to
be made at it. Boswell, by his sins, gives
the most intense pleasure to moralists ;
by his buffooneries he provides an irresist-
ible temptation to satirists ; and by both
he should have earned the undying grati-
tude of all who, like Macaulay, D. B.
Wyndham Lewis and Mr. Vulliamy, walk
in his shadow.
The present reviewer, being physically
exhausted after picking Boswell up when
D. B. Wyndham Lewis had knocked him
down —a rescue that had to be repeated
about 257 times in the course of The
Hooded Hawk —shrinks from answering
Mr. Vulliamy here point by point. Per-
haps it is enough to record that Mr.
Vulliamy believes the author of The Life
of Samuel Johnson was “destitute of
what is known as a sense of humor.” In
general, Mr. Vulliamy agrees with
Macaulay that the man who wrote the
greatest biography in the English
language was “one of the smallest men
who ever lived”: which is a piece of
impertinence comparable to the asser-
tions that Bacon wrote Shakspeare and
that Homer was a committee. Rather
than deal with Mr. Vulliamy’s attack in
detail, it is more pleasant as well as more
profitable to turn back to Peter Quen-
nell’s admirable Four Portraits, published
by Collins in 1945. Where Mr. Vulliamy
sees Boswell as “a fluid succession of
uncontrollable impulses,” Mr. Quennell,
far more penetratingly, observes:
It was the nature of Boswell’s genius to
work through accident. He was to follow
a variety of false trails; even the authentic
clue, when he had taken it up, again and
again seemed to slip between his fingers;
and there were interminable desperate
wanderings before he achieved his end
Suppose that he had stayed at Auchinleck
and minded his estate, that he had remained
sensibly in Edinburgh and labored in the
Scottish courts —he would have kept out of
debt, pleased Mrs. Boswell, brought up his
five legitimate children in comfort and
security; but he would at the same time
have been untrue to that mysterious guiding
spirit which, though it ruined his health,
impaired his fortune and destroyed his
happiness, at last produced the justification
he had always been in search of—“my
Magnum Opus” or (as he described it
prophetically to William Temple) “without
exception the most entertaining book you
ever read.”
Mr. Vulliamy is more satisfactory on
Johnson than on anyone else (Mr. Thrale,
in a comic way, excepted) in Ursa Major.
By delving into Mrs. Thrale’s memoirs
and by studying all the medical evidence
available he is able to add a little to
Boswell’s portrait of the lexicographer:
a few dafk hints concerning the degree
of Johnson’s melancholia; but a few
hints only. Johnson remains a hidden
man ; which, psychological mystery being
an eternal fascination, is just as well for
the future of English biography. Where
Mr. Vulliamy differs from most recent
Johnsonians is in having some small
respect for Johnson’s own writings: not
the verse, which he says was “accomp-
lished and elegant” but “not poetry,”
but some of the essays and the almost
universally disregarded Dictionary which
he holds to be “the production not of a
‘harmless drudge’ but of a most re-
markable and original genius.” Whether
or not this opinion is justifiable only
habitual readers of dictionaries could
say ; but it is at least refreshing.
But Ursa Major, despite its title, is not
principally concerned with Dr. Johnson,
nor with Boswell. In plan it is “a study
of Dr. Johnson and his friends” ; in per-
formance). it is a vehement spanking of
Mrs. Thrale, As D. B. Wyndham Lewis’s
“theme” was knocking Boswell down
(when drunk) and picking him up again,
so Mr. Vulliamy’s “theme” is calling
Mrs. Thrale rude names. Because she
gets some dates wrong in her memoirs
she is guilty of “gross inaccuracy” (page
51) ; the magazine in which her early
poems were printed was “a medium for
the silliest of poetical dabblers” (page
52) ; she is, on page 61, “frolicsome,
tawdry and unscrupulous” ; she is, every
second page or so, “false,” “vulgar” and
“a liar” ; on page 163, because she said
airily that Johnson would “follow the
hounds for fifty miles on end,” she is
“preposterous”; on page. 201 she is
“vicious” ; on page 225 “vulgarly and in-
decently confidential” in her letters to
her daughter; on page 224, because she
rewrote some of her letters for publica-
tion, she is “a common forger” ; she is
also guilty on the same page of
“nauseous hypocrisy.”
Now, Mrs. Thrale, it is notorious, did
a dreadful thing: being a widow, she re-
married. Naturally, this upset Dr. John-
son a good deal, for he was almost cer-
tainly hoping to marry her himself, .and
certainly relied on her for meals ; also,
because her second husband was an
Italian, it upset all Mrs. Thrale’s more
insular friends; since the man was a
Catholic, it upset those who were narrow-
minded religiously; since, in contrast to
her first marriage, which was arranged
for her at the age of fifteen, it was a
match of love and joy, it was upsetting
to all her friends who were not them-
selves experiencing love and joy in their
married or unmarried states ; and since
it brought a stranger into the family, it
was upsetting to Mrs. Thrale’s daughters.
All this is understandable; but for a
modern biographer to rage and rant at
Mrs. Thrale for marrying Piozzi would
be quite absurd. Mr, Vulliamy, we have
his word specifically on the point, is
tranquil where the marriage is concerned,
but has been upset by Mrs. Thraie’s
“abandonment” of Johnson:
No concern for Johnson, no plans for
his comfort, no perception of principles or
of decency, no promptings of a kindly soul,
deflected Hester Thrale from her design;
and her design was never anything short
of total abandonment. Had she been a
more amiable character, we might have
stressed the inconvenience of Johnson, his
tyrannous irritability, his own lack of per-
ception, his wonderfully complete ignorance
of the female mind, and his wearying de-
mands. These indeed required patience,
b'ut they did not require deliberate in-
humanity, dishonesty and ruthlessness. It
is upon these counts that censure falls on
Mrs. Thrale, and it falls inescapably.
This is, obviously, a beautiful trounc-
ing, and it must have given Mr. Vulliamy
a great deal of satisfaction. Yet it is, on
Mr. Vulliamy’s own showing, perfectly
nonsensical. For, quite apart from the
fact that Johnson was, as Mrs. “Hermes”
Harris put it, “more beastly in his dress
and person than anything I ever beheld,”
and so something of a trial in the house,
we have Mr. Vulliamy’s word for it that
the Doctor was in love with Mrs. Thrale.
How could she have let the great bear go
on living in her house after, with every
right in the world to do so, she had
married Piozzi? Perhaps shes might
have softened the blow to Johnson ; yet
when he had written to her in terms out-
rageous enough to have been used by
Mr. Vulliamy, and when she had replied
in just indignation, Johnson very quickly
backed down.
One way and another, Mrs. Thrale has
had a good deal to put up with from bears.
But Fanny Burney, who never lacked
malice, left this charming portrait of her:
“Her complexion fair; she has the em-
bonpoint charmant, and her eyes are blue
and lustrous. She is full of sport,
remarkably gay and excessively agree-
able She is a most dear creature,
but never restrains her tongue in
anything; nor, indeed, any of her
feelings; she laughs, cries, scolds,
sports, reasons, makes fun—does every-
thing she has an inclination to do with-
out any study of prudence or thought of
blame.... .She is not safely to be trusted
with anything she can turn into ridicule”
—a sketch hardly to be improved on at
this date by a handful of acidulous adjec-
tives. Mr. Vulliamy, with the defence
that he does it wittily, has marred a good
book by his immoderate onslaught on
Mrs. Thrale. His case against her is poor,
and seems irrational; as if he had merely
picked up the habit of spanking her as a
custom of the ancients; or even as if it
were a back-handed compliment, so to
speak, to her eternally provocative
femininity.
THE QUARREL.
Many years ago I quarrelled with my cousin —
Many years ago my cousin quarrelled with me.
Do not ask me why or what it was about.
Something over which we two could not agree —
I have long forgotten.
My cousin ran home and told his parents,
I ran home and told mine,
And since then our two families have been
enemies —
Since then it has been angry looks and loud
voices.
Our Anna must not speak to their Pita —
Their Pita must not play with our Annal
They quarrelled, quarrelled, quarrelled —
About land rights and whakapapas, >
About the living and about the dead.
About mutton birds and dried eels.
And who owned the gum dug out of the
swamp —
About the cow that strayed from the paheha's
farm
And that each said the other had stolen —
They quarrelled, yes, even over a telegraph pole.
When the old chief died they went together
To the tangi, and together wept.
Yes, and even rubbed noses and cut themselves
for sadness.
MX.
But when the dead was buried and the big
feast over
They quarrelled louder than ever
Across a kit of cold cooked kumaras.
They cannot worship God in the same church
Because their dark looks and mutterings
Distract the minister.
When my old father meets my cousin’s old
father
He says “Term koe. Enemy /”
And my cousin’s old father spits and shouts
“Bah I”
As to my cousin and me —
Well, we made up our quarrel the same day it
happened,
As children do.
When I meet my cousin’s children I pat them
on the head,
When he meets mine he smiles and gives them
presents.
But to me he says, “Ah, Anna ! Anna ! If only
we had not quarrelled!
Ah, Anna! Anna I If only we had told them
that day
That it was nothing, nothing at a11...it is too
late now I”
GLORIA RAWLINSON.
Americans in Ballarat
It must be a source of considerable
civic pride to the citizens of Ballarat, in
Victoria, that the U.S. troops billeted
there for a week early in 1942 de-
parted without leaving a single stain on
the city’s honor. Or so it would appear
from Mrs. Henrietta Drake-Brockman’s
novel The Fatal Days (Angus and Robert-
son).
Mrs. Drake-Brockman presents, it is
true, one young female named Ena, an
attendant in a grocery shop, who is
tempted into questionable behavior, but
this is calculated to arouse popular
patriotic sentiments rather than to offend
decorum. Ena, so that she may look
pretty for the Yanks, steals and pawns
the clothes left behind by her brother
who is fighting in Malaya. At the end
of the novel she has flitted to Melbourne,
where, if one reads the inferences
correctly, things may occur which could
not possibly happen in Ballarat.
That being so, it is a .pity that Mrs.
Drake-Brockman did not set her novel in
Melbourne, or even at King’s Cross—
not, be it said hastily, for the sake of
mere naughtiness, but for the sake of a
true picture of the impact of the Ameri-
cans on Australian life: the impact of
American dollars.
The troops don’t seem to have
been quite themselves in Ballarat.
They appear, in fact, to have had
an unconquerable passion for the
Eureka Stockade, and none of them ob-
jects to hearing the full story, at inter-
minable length and from every possible
point of view, at least six times in rapid
succession as different proud citizens
catch them in a corner and let fly at them.
It may be that many Australians, shar-
ing the Americans’ blissful ignorance of
the Eureka affair, will share their interest
in it. The present reviewer, having read
24,879 Leftist sermons on the subject,
found himself rather bleakly admiring
Mrs. Drake-Brockman’s historical know-
ledge and balance of mind.
But, when the objections have been
noted, it is astonishing how read-
able a book Mrs. Drake-Brockman
has made. Its purpose is partly
historical and sociological, of the
nature of an essay rather than of a
novel: to remind us all of what we
thought and said when Singapore fell and
when the Americans first came in to save
the day in the Pacific ; what their uni-
forms looked like, how they spoke and
ate, how their history differed from
ours... all talk which has a certain
nostalgic interest for most Australians,
and which Mrs. Drake-Brockman sets
down cheerfully and (as far as it goes)
accurately. “It struck Sevarrin suddenly
that these people were not regarding
them as foreigners at all, which was
peculiar when he thought of the Ameri-
can point of view.”
As well as this sort of travelogue
appeal, the book has considerable merit
as fiction. Mrs. Vike, a formidable aunt,
is lively, amusing and clearly visualised.
Mrs. Drake-Brockman has essentially the
aristocratic viewpoint—a love for fine-
ness, whether in things or people —and,
fortunately for her art, this rich, decora-
tive quality keeps making itself apparent:
She didn’t look easy to bluff, sitting there,
still with her apron on, but with the light
glinting on a pair of swinging amethyst
earrings, elaborate and pearl-set, and the
.little velvet throat-band. The hand holding
a generous blue and gold Doulton cup
showed heavy-veined beneath the dry brittle
skin of age.
Ena, again, though not fully realised,
is pleasantly portrayed, for the author is
in sympathy with her decorative qualities
and calls her, at the end, “a black
swan.” There are other minor charac-
ters, both Australian and American, all
capably drawn in an ingenious survey of
half a dozen different spheres of social
life in Ballarat; and the heroine, Rhea,
serves as well as most heroines to hold
the novel together. Which she does by
falling into the hero’s arms until the
second-last chapter, when the American
has cunningly lured her to the one spot
certain to melt the hca t of a young Aus-
tralian artist—the Eureka Stockade.


Anthony
Horderns
FOOD FOR BRITAIN. Place your donation at our Food
for Britain Official Receiving Depot, on the
Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Britain needs
our help. Give a donation now!
: m
m
o
if
<S):
©
m
©3
(s>
©
&
©
HI
<&
©
©
® s
m
c
ii
i-V.I
1
frXAAiW'
'>f WW I 4
i
*
mmsm
55%4S
■
■■■
i
I
s. : v:
Siijiliii
ill
*
3
=sa
■ \
/.
&
y.
f
ft M
9t
/
\ * 11
A.
i
u
rVni '[Ti/if
K
V>
Hi VT > H
’Phone M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney
i-kA.
A. —l2 Gauge Empty Primer Cartridge
Shells are available now, priced at 3/6
box of 25.
B. —Strong Webbing Cartridge Bag, a
necessity with every sportsman. It
features a protective lining. Size is
10 inches x 8 inches. Price . . ... 4/9
C. —Good quality Canvas Cun Case for
30-in. or 32-in. Barrels, Canvas on Wood,
Nickel on Brass fittings and lock. £6/5/-
D. —Cleaning Rod for Rifles, 32. 38. 44.
303 Calibre with swivel handle. 3/6
E. Solid Leather Rifle Slings, size 40 in.
x Idr in., price 3/-
F. —Strong, light, narrow webbing Rifle
Slings, size 33 in. x f in. Price .. . 1/3
303 Sporting Rifle £9/10/-
Sorry, no ammunition at present.
MAIL YOUR ORDER for all your hunting requisites
to-day. We will give your order every care and
attention. Freight extra outside the Metropolitan
Area.
• Guns and Ammunition —
Ground VI., Goulburn St.
\
f


AUSTRALIAN PUBLICATIONS
THE STORY OF BURNSIDE, by R. G. Macintyre.
The Burnside Homes are now the largest orphan homes in Australia, and serve as a model
for all such institutions. l)r. Macintyre is well qualified to tell the story of the Homes,
which cannot fail to interest every reader who has the welfare of our children at heart.
Illustrated. 6/- (post. 4d.).
GOLDFISH IN AUSTRALIA, with a section on tropical fish, by W. Jno.
Baker. Illustrated. 12/6 (post. 4d.).
EUREKA STOCKADE. The Original Account, by Carboni Raffaello. Intro-
duction by Brian Fitzpatrick. 4/- (post. 3d.).
AUSTRALIAN CLIMATES AND RESOURCES. By Dr. J. Gentilli.
8/6 (post. 4d.).
SOUTHERN SAGA. By Roy Connolly. An exciting story about early
Queensland. 12/6 (post. 5d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
m
s
m
0
mmmm
'•" ••’j f>- ,>? OVERPROOF . ,?1 » " g-
FiSO, CASSON i CO PTV. UP. IST. IB4E frul
aaoss
DeSoto
DODBS
TRUCKS
FMSomcaa
—v-i
iln the past 23 years, Chrysler-Dodge engineers have pioneered,
developed or introduced a greater number of noteworthy engineer-
ing features than any other group of engineers in the Automobile
Industry. You always get the good things first from C.D.D.!
★ FULL PRESSURE LUBRICATION FOR MODERATE PRICED CARS * HIGH COMPRESSION * HY-
DRAULIC 4-WHEEL BRAKES * CRANKSHAFT VIBRATION DAMPER (RUBBER & STEEL) * RUST-
PROOFED BODY, FENDERS & SHEET METAL PARTS ★ RUBBER-CORED SPRING'SHACKLES * OIL
FILTER * CARBURETTOR AIR CLEANER ★ SMALL DIAMETER ROAD WHEELS * ENGINE
HEAT INDICATOR ON INSTRUMENT PANEL ★ DOWN DRAFT CARBURETTOR * STANODIZED
(TIN COATED) ALUMINIUM PISTONS ★ FLOATING POWER ★ BALANCED CAR WEIGHT
★ ROLLER BEARING UNIVERSAL JOINTS * ALL STEEL BODIES * ELECTRIC SHIELD
WIPER ★ HELICAL GEARS THROUGHOUT TRANSMISSION ★ EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS
★ SAFETY SIGNAL LIGHT ON INSTRUMENT PANEL * AUTOMATIC OVER-DRIVE TRANS-
MISSION * THREE PASSENGER FRONT SEAT * INDIRECTLY LIGHTED INSTRUMENT
PANEL * AMOLA STEEL * TAPERED LfF SPRINGS ★ RUBBER INSULATED STEERING
GEAR * SAFETY STYLED BODY INTERIORS ★ RUBBER INSULATED BODY MOUNTINGS
★ CHAIR HEIGHT SEATS ★ FULL-FLOW OIL FILTER ★ TWO TONE UPHOLSTERING * FLUID
DRIVE * ROTOR TYPE OIL PUMP * COUNTER-BALANCED TRUNK LID ★ SAFETY RIM
WHEEL ★ BY-PASS THERMOSTAT FOR COOLING SYSTEM * AUTOMATIC UNDER DRIVE
TRANSMISSION ★ ELECTRIC PETROL GAUGE ON INSTRUMENT PANEL * SWAY
ELIMINATOR * SUPERFINISH
Chrysler
hstrilmiorf
(AUSTRALIA} FfY.IID.
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty. Ltd.. Harden and Johnston Ltd.. York Motors Pty. Ltd.
• Melbourne; Automobiles Pty. Ltd.. Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (yic.) Pty. Ltd.. Lanes Motors Pty. Ltd.
• BRISBANE: Austral Motors Pty. Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.
o ADELAIDE: Waymoulh Motor Company Limited, Flinders Motors Limited
• PERTH: Winlerbotlom Motor Company Limited, Wentworth Motors Limited.
• HOBART: H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.. Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Co-Operative Motors Limited. CDII7
••V :i
CHRYSLER. DODGE
DE SOTO, PLYMOUTH
DODGE & FARGO TRUCKS
in Engineering
Vvv . * *v\ - v' » AV/ CS 'v OvN'
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You'D Jump Ml
of Bed in the Morning FnU of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con*
Stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working ana
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you nt.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anythin#
else. 3 1- & 1/3.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Ex-marine engineer, 1st class (semi-retired),
35 years’ experience ashore in general engineer-
ing, spoiling for casual, interesting job in an
advisory or supervisory capacity.—4032.
To buy copy of Newspaper Building, by
Jason Rogers.—4033.
Information Sought.
(1) Approximate number of troops landed in
France on D-day ? (2) Mileage of the South
Pole Ice Barrier?
(1) It is estimated that approximately 250,000
troops landed from the 4000 vessels engaged
within 24 hours of the landing, plus airborne
troops. (2) The largest section of the outer
margin of the Antarctic ice sheet, commonly
known as the Ice Barrier, is the Ross Barrier,
which is roughly the size of France and 400
miles on its seaward face. There are numerous
smaller ones up to 30 miles in length.
* * * *
(1) Does a railway stationmaster in N.S.W.
have to hold an Intermediate or Leaving Cer-
tificate ? (2) Qualifications necessary to become
a stationmaster? (3) Can a porter, shunter,
guard or signalman become a stationmaster ?
(4) Is it necessary for a stationmaster to have
experience as porter, shunter, guard or signal-
man ? (5) Are clerks recruited from wage
employees? (6) Do clerks have to hold an
Intermediate or Leaving Certificate?
(1) No. (2) To obtain promotion to station-
master it is necessary for an employee to pass
the clerical examination, goods and coaching
accounts examinations and the various systems
of safe working. (3) Yes. Appointments to
the position of stationmaster are made from
the grade of assistant stationmaster, to which
grade qualified guards, shunters and signalmen
are eligible for appointment. Porters must first
advance either through the grade of shunter,
signalman or safe working porter. (4) Generally,
yes. (5) Not usually. They are recruited from
junior clerks reaching adult age. However, it
is sometimes necessary to fill vacancies on the
clerical staff by the appointment of wages
hands, including those in the classifications
mentioned. (6) Applicants for employment m
the service as junior clerk are required to bold
the Intermediate Certificate.
* * * •
'(I) Shortest and cheapest way of getting to
Alice Springs from Braemar (N.S.W.) ! (A)
What are the chances for employment on a
cattle station or droving in the Alice Springs
district ?
(1) By way of Sydney and Adelaide. The
fare is: Braemar to Sydney 7s. 6d.; Sydney
to Adelaide £4 6s. 6d., and Adelaide to Alice
Springs £6 10s. 9d.; a total of £ll 4s. 9d.
(2) If you have had previpus experience with
cattle you should have no difficulty in obtaining
employment on a cattle station. If you have not
had this previous experience the chances oi
employment on a station or with a droving
plant are negligible. The Secretary of the
Central Australian Pastoral Lessees’ Associa-
tion, Mr. J. B. Owen, P.O. Box 40, Alice
Springs, may be able to assist.
* * * *
A reliable method to clean rifle and gun
barrels ?
If the barrel is not badly corroded the fol-
lowing procedure is satisfactory. Pour about
one quart of boiling water through the barrel and
scrub the bore well with a tight pull-through.
Flush the barrel with about one pint of boiling
water and dry thoroughly by means of a
pull-through. Protect the cleaned surface of
the barrel by oiling. If the barrel is very
corroded treat with water as described,
scrubbing the bore with a wire brush if pos-
sible, flush with water and dry. Then apply
the following mixture by means of a pull-
through, and allow to stand overnight: Neats-
foot oil 10 parts, eucalyptus oil 10 parts,
acetone 10 parts, kerosene 20 parts, and
lanoline \ part. All parts are by weight. Place
the ingredients in a bottle and shake until
mixed. The mixture is inflammable and should
not be used near a naked light. Remove the
mixture from the barrel next day with a clean
pull-through and repeat the treatment if neces-
sary. When the barrel is clean it should be
oiled.
Brief Answers.
W.A,: (1) and (2) She was never a member
of the House of Commons. (3) Lady Astor
represented the Sutton division of Plymouth
from 1919 to 1945... .L.G.T.: Write J. H.
Smyth Pty., Ltd., 114 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney, .. .E.J.T.: The cartoons have no value
E.J.E.: Write Ira L. Berk Pty., Ltd., 72 Wil-
liam-street, Sydney C.R.: There is no
remedy. Once a rubberised fabric has stiffened
(a sure sign of perishing) nothing will restore
its proofing H.A.S.: (1) No. In the days
before wheel brakes were fitted to aircraft, a
few yards could be saved on the take-off run
by fastening the plane by a rope to a tree
and opening the throttles fully before releasing
the rope. This enabled the engines to deliver
their full power without the aircraft rolling
forward while they were being revved up. (2)
No. Apart from helicopters, no heavier-than-
air aircraft can remain airborne while station-
ary, though some special types have been able
to fly at speeds of little more than 20 miles
an hour F.H.8.: (1) Provided the soil has
been well-limed,* the addition of green or dry
foliage (leaves, grass, etc.) will not sour the
earth. (2) The uncommonly warm autumn has
been responsible for freak flowers on both
shrubs and fruit-trees in the Sydney area. Many
enthusiasts remove these unseasonable growths
at once. (3) Oxide of iron and iron filings dug
in around the shrubs, or alum water (loz. to
the gallon) applied at pruning time and twice
a week when hydrangeas are bursting into
bloom, will accentuate the blue tint. Where
the soil is of a limey nature or has been heavily
limed it will take a couple of years to over-
come the pink flowering H.8.L.: (1) Letter
posted. (2) Ear Phone Cos., State Bldg., Market-
street, Sydney. (3) Three-valve replacement....
J.W.: (1) Cyanide is soluble —readily flushed
from sink or drain. For safety burn small
amounts rather than store for future use. (2)
Urge for food rather than lack of individual
item in diet. Probable that dog was fed from
tin utensil. Simply an association of ideas in
the animal mind 5.0.5.: Peruvian and
cinchona bark are identical. Alkaloid quinine
is bitter tonic used in malaria, etc
W.M.McP.: Can find no trace of the person
in any of the standard books on the subject.
E.W.; Suggest that before you take up. a
course on the subject you submit some
of your work to us, repeating your inquiry,
and we will advise... .M.P.; After the courts
have been watered, hessian should be laid down
in strips and then rolled several times. After
rolling, remove the * hessian' and roll in the
ordinary way. The ant bed should then not
adhere to the roller,.. .W.C.H.: Could not say
without inspection. Suggest you submit book
to a Brisbane second-hand bookseller for
valuation M.A.8.: Depends upon the books.
You should be able to get in touch with col-
lectors and societies by advertising in such a
journal as “Australian Book News,” or you
might get a bookseller to sell them on your-
behalf J.M.W.; It would be in order for
the society to appoint a small sub-committee
for the purpose stated; or it could delegate
such duties to its executive officers,.. .J.E.;
Write Division of Forest Products, C.5.1.R.,
Yarra Bank-road, South Melbourne, for
pamphlet “Termites (White Ants).”


Missing Friends.
MOORE.—WILL any person knowing the present
whereabouts of ROBERT LESLIE MOORE, son of
the late WALTER MOORE, who resided at Mordialloc,
Victoria, about ten years ago, please communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY, 472
Bourke Street, Melbourne?
TO FREDERICK ALLAN O’CONNOR known as Allan
Ernest Kelly formerly of 118 Droop Street Footscray
in the State of Victoria Soldier.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife THELMA MAY O’CONNOR has in-
stituted proceedings against you on the ground of
desertion Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office Supreme Court William Street
Melbourne on or before the 7th day of July 1947
and file an answer in the said office on or before the
17th day of July 1947 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay the costs.—
JOSEPH BARNETT & RYAN, 332 Drummond Street,
Carlton, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Public Notices.
MAURICE SAUNDERS commonly known as Maurice
Frederick Saunders (son of Charles and Margaret
Saunders formerly Bourke) Deceased Intestate. —
PURSUANT to Order of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia made in suit (S. No. 3 of 1947)
“In the Matter of the Estate of Maurice Saunders
commonly known as Maurice Frederick Saunders
late of 11 Aberdeen Street Perth in the State of
Western Australia Deceased in which the Perpetual
Executors Trustees and Agency Company Limited is
Plaintiff and Annie Margaret Harkin and others are
Defendants all persons claiming to be next-of-kin (or
the personal representatives of such) of the said
Maurice Saunders who died at Perth aforesaid intes-
tate and a bachelor on the 25th day of June 1944
and who was the son of Charles Saunders born in
Nottingham England and Margaret Saunders (formerly
Bourke) born in Cork Ireland are on or before the 28th
day of August 1947 to send by post prepaid to the
said Perpetual Executors Trustees and Agency Company
Limited of 89 Saint George’s Terrace Perth aforesaid
their full Christian and surnames addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims setting
out their degree of kinship and in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from participation
in the distribution of the estate of the said deceased
CLAIMANTS must attend personally or by their
solicitor before me at my Chambers Supreme Court
Perth aforesaid on Monday the Bth day of September
1947 at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon the day
appointed for hearing and adjudicating on the said
claims Claimants not residing in Western Aus-
tralia must with their particulars of claim aforesaid
send the name and address of a person in Perth
aforesaid to whom notices may be sent.—G. J,
BOYLSON, Master. LAVAN, WALSH & SMITH,
of 29 Barrack Street, Perth, Solicitors for the said
Plaintiff.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN. "
RE ROBERT NORMAN FOSTER, late of Scarness,
in the State of Queensland, deceased. To ARTHUR
JOHN FOSTER, or any person or persons claiming
by, through or under him by derivative title or
otherwise. —NOTICE is hereby given that all per-
sons claiming to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed
Robert Norman Foster, late of Scarness, in the State
of Queensland, deceased, who died on or about the
28th day of March, 1946, at Maryborough, in the
said State, or any persons claiming by, through or
under the said Arthur John Foster, by derivative
title or otherwise, are hereby required to forward
proof of their relationship to the PUBLIC CURATOR,
Brisbane, Queensland, on or before the 30th Novem-
ber, 1947, and after the expiration of the last-
mentioned date, the Public Curator will proceed to
distribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto, having regard only to
the claims to which he shall then have had notice.
DATED this Tenth day of June, 1947.—F. M.
ALLSOP, Public Curator, Brisbane.
df
df
11 your
aog'b coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or Is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
dim on a courses ______
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN EOTION
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!?
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
Fort Denison (Pinchgut) in Sydney Harbour con.
tributes to the safety of shipping as a lighthouse
and meteorological station. Its light and power
are supplied by Clyde Batteries
CLYDEbatteries
SAFETY FIRST!
' .'. ' if.
The BEST car
safety-device is
aCAREFUU
DRIVER'
Wherever the need for stored electrical energy, Clyde
Batteries for cars, trucks, buses, radio and home lighting
have proved their efficiency and long life.
An advt. of The Clyde Engineering Co. Ltd.. Granville, N.S.W
Merchandise Sales Division;
SYDNEY, BRISBANE. MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDES
df
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
Built entirely in Australia by
"THIS
DUPLICATOR
1 has oil the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a traction ol
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON
& O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
THE “ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY/’
A review of Economic, Market and
Financial Conditions, Company
Accounts and Mining Activities.
21- per copy. 22/6 a year post free.
IS YOUR FUTURE
IN PAWN TO
BLACKMARKETEERS?
1
In these days of high prices and
short supply of goods, it’s easy
to get into the habit of paying
what’s asked without question ...
too glad to get the goods to
bargain about the cost!
Extra money paid for "no coupons,
no questions asked” transactions . . .
"standover” charges if you want something
in a hurry . . . scarce goods specially ob-
tained for you "at a price”—in many ways,
careless spending can swallow up your in-
come and make inroads into savings, too . •.
even endanger your future prosperity.
BE YOUR OWN
PRICES COMMISSIONER!
Declare a war on prices now. If, you think
a price is too high—refuse to buy. It’s
smarter to save than be "soaked”!
Not only will your personal "price control”
enable you to save (just try it and see!),
but you help Australia, too —by defeating
blackmarkets and profiteers, helping to ward
off inflation and to restore the value of
money.
Big Rewards for those who
SAVE NOW!
Now is the time to save, to build up your
purchasing power for the future, when goods
are plentiful again, and better values are
obtainable . . . when plans can be put into
practice and dreams come true. Better re-
wards still, for those who invest their savings
in Bonds and Savings Certificates when your
savings are increased by better than bank
interest! Hold on to Bonds and Savings
Certificates you already own, buy
5-Year Savings Certificates each week, .
and make an advance subscription now
Co the next Commonwealth Loan.
J
r-wsxvs
5 WAYS TO SECURE YOUR
FUTURE AND AUSTRALIA'S
1. Buy only what you really need. Spend
wisely . . . get full value. Save all you
can.
2. Pay no more than the fixed or regular
prices. Always surrender coupons.
3. Don’t waste money on blackmarket
goods.
4. Pay your way. Settle your debts. Buy
for cash.
5. Invest your savings, at better than
bank interest, in Commonwealth Bonds,
Savings Certificates and Stamps. Later
on, you’ll have the money, plus the
interest, to spend on better goods in
plentiful supply at better values. Hold
all the Bonds and Certificates you own.
Save for Security
BUY BONDS AND SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
N 510.113.57
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
V. 8.: “I am sending these only on the
advice of a friend.” Ah, everybody’s got that
friend... .N.J.D.: You have imagination. Now
learn to use your own words, instead of literary
tags such as “monarch” and “citadels”
H.P.M.: Just a taste of the “epic,” then:
G.M.H.: Our fences are too steep for you.
D.B.: Try your hand at Abo. pars
C. : “I started writing poems as a hobby.”
No harm in that; but Pegasus is more than
a hobby-horse D.A.R.: Must you talk about
the weather? A. 8.: Poems that begin “Have
you ever seen” go out without further reading.
M.B.C.: “The Professional Swagman’s
League” is now on the wallaby E. 0.: Just
“breezes” A. 0.: Who’s your friend, Sol?
J.McL.G. :Far too sugary for us W.T.C.:
Boiled down some of the incidents described
might pass as paragraphs C.R.: Grew tired
of the non-stop slang and illiterate speech....
F.W.T.: Yours is the fourth unfaithful wife
we have had to turn away this week
H.G.G.: No parking space for “Water
Wagons” in our pages S.W.: Pleased to
note that Jim’s mother is now on the way
to recovery A.P.S.; Some day we’ll get a
story about a returned p.-0.-w. who is not a
hopeless neurotic... .LJ.: Humor is not robust
enough D.R.: “If it’s no good, bum it.”
Sorry, but it was too green... .I.O.B.: Con-
dense and try a daily V.M.R.: Not bad,
except that the theme has been worked to
death and the characters have a tendency to
talk like leader-writers A.0.K.: Asa comic
character Uncle Ezra is not quite comic enough.
M.H.H.: Both are amateurish C.M.T.:
Try one of the flapper story magazines....
J.B.McC.: “Man on a Raft” still afloat....
D. : We’ve read many a brighter fishing
yarn E.W.: Your ex-p.-0.-w. is the third
this week who returns to find that his missus
has been unfaithful A.H.L.: Even in the
days when melodrama was fashionable writers
seldom let themselves go t,o that extent....
V.M.: No sugar for “Sugar” V.McN,:
Killing off the old chap was an inartistic way
to end that story... .M.D.C.: Somewhat school-
boyish humor... .G.V.D.: Somehow —we don’t
know how —we managed to plough through it.
. ...I.M.: Not introducing “Old Bill” to our
readers A.H.: Both miss, neither by a con-
siderable margin L.N.S.: For the 999th time
—we’re not in the market for ghost stories
R.N.B.: “I suppose it is destined for the
basket.” Supposition correct E.H.T.: Have
yet to meet the schoolboy who solved a crime
that “baffled the masterminds of the C.I.B.”
D.K.: Fifty-year-old retired pug who makes
a comeback and licks the champ in the first
round was quickly k.o.’d at 252 George-street.
... .H.W.: The tale is poor, but at least you’re
the first in with a rocket-range spy story
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.B.; Not a winner among any of them....
E.P.: Yes, you can draw cats C.C.: You’d
do better as a signwriter D.McD.: Among
this week’s also-rans T.E J.: Gags are pre-
historic, drawings the work of an untrained
hand M.J.S.: They have the appearance of
having been drawn during a hangover
C.McA.: Not wanting gags which require two
questions and two answers before the point is
reached.... R.A.: Whoever told you we would
publish it was pulling your leg K.S.; All
right for a fashion page, but no use to us
L.C.: Cow-cockies or fence-posts — rocks or
houses? E.G.: They look like half-melted
waxwork figures T.R.J.: You’ll be sketch-
ing on a visiting-card next F.M.: Our old
friend the drunk and the park statue again
N.L.: The gags are a lot brighter, but the
drawings are still a jumble of thick black lines.
. ...B.W.: You can call for that poster-sized
picture of Eddie Ward any time you like....
R.McW.: You fell down on the job G.S.:
The same old swaggie climbs up the same
hollow log every time there’s a drop of rain.
The threat of invasion loomed high,
Intensified submarine war
Was waged in a way to decry;
The ultimate purpose at core
Was the landing on Britain’s coast
An army, to bring to her knees
A country which had always boast
They had been free as the breeze.
It did not come about, all know!


The birth of Mrs. Paget
By DOUGLAS STEWART
< < /" O on, Julia,” says Mr. Paget,
I—l “show it to him.”
V j “But Mr. Lord hasn’t finished
his afternoon tea yet. Another
cup, Mr. Lord?”
Mr. Lord is a dark, willowy,
suave young man from the Egmont
“Banner.” “Thank you, Mrs. Paget,”
he says, “I will. But really I’m
most anxious to see it. I hear it’s quite
remarkable.”
Pausing with her plump arm extended,
the dark teapot in*her white hand, her
blue eyes blinking rapidly behind her
rimless glasses, Mrs. Paget challenges him,
half in merriment, half in shyness. “I
can’t make out how you heard about it! ”
she exclaims.
Mr, Lord, always a success at after-
noon-tea with the ladies, is roguish.
“Ah,” he says, waggishly lifting a fore-
finger, “we know.”
“Oh you newspapermen!” cries Mrs.
Paget. “You know everything.”
They do indeed. Mr. Lord has seen
American newspapermen in the talkies,
and they are acquainted intimately with
Presidents and gangsters, they know their
secrets and their scandals, they know who
did it and why, they race the police to
the body. The glamor of these men
surrounds Mr. Lord, and he is aware,
too, of his own power and glory, the
knowledge of majestic secrets: what the
sanitary inspector said to the Mayor, and
who wrote the letter to the editor that
drove the superintendent of the Fire
Brigade mad with rage ... the editor him-
self had written it. “Ah, not everything,”
he says with modesty, “But I know all
about you, Mrs. Paget.”
“I think it’s dreadful!” says Mrs. Paget,
her rich chuckling tone makihg it clear
that she is not entirely appalled. “I’m
sure I’d never have made it public. I
can’t think who could have”
“A little bird told me,” says Mr. Lord
archly.
Though the phrase is no more than
one of those flowers of expression with
which Mr. Lord —and the Egmont “Ban-
ner”—are always well-stocked, it seems
to have a special meaning for Mrs. Paget.
She glances sharply at her husband.
“Will!” she exclaims. “You told him!”
“I don’t see why the paper shouldn’t
have the information, Julia,” says her
husband deliberately.
“Oh, you’re a devil! I know who the
little bird was!”
There has not, in fact, been much
major devilry in Mr. Paget s existence
as a superior and respectable grocer in a
New Zealand country town. Rather,
there has been a struggle against chain
stores, bad debts and the like that has
set his thin, aquiline features in lines
hard and grim; and a picking up of
tiny profits, a halfpenny here on the
sugar, a penny there on the flour, that has
sharpened his long upper lip into a
curiously projecting beak. But once, with
a mighty extension of his long thin neck
and a phenomenal dart of the beak, he
pecked up Julia Morrison—a plump,
delicious shy little morsel —and made her
Mrs. Paget; and that was the greatest
profit he ever pecked. And now, plump
and delicious still in early middle age,
charming with her soft dark hair and
blue eyes, she calls him a devil. He is
pleased, he is flattered; a grin forms on
each side of his beak. “Well, then,” he
says, “don’t keep Mr. Lord waiting.”
“I haven’t the faintest idea where it is,”
says Mrs. Paget, pink and deprecating.
“Julia, you know very well where it is.
In your desk in the bedroom.”
Mrs. Paget rises. “1 see I’m to have
no secrets from you men,” she says in
her merry voice as she goes out of the
room.
Mr. Lord gazes about the drawing-
room: the tea-things on the dumb-
waiter; the faded -blue carpet scrupu-
lously clean; the old-fashioned furniture
with its spindly legs and fat but unyield-
ing upholstery ; the china Mr. Micawber
on the mantelpiece. “That’ll be you and
Mrs. Paget on your wedding-day,” he
says, nodding his handsome head at an
enlarged photograph of a long, pale man
beaked like a bird and a bride looking
strangely lost in her white veil.
“She’s got that in,” Mr. Paget says.
“The report, I mean. It really is a very
remarkable collection.”
ii 1 T’S staggering.! ” says Mr. Lord,
' glancing up as Mrs. Paget re-enters,
clasping a leather-bound volume some
15in. by lOin. in length and width and,
with the pasted-in newspaper clippings
bulking out the loose leaves, fully four
inches in depth. “But it’s not really full?”
“Practically! ” laughs Mrs. Paget.
“There’s room for my obituary and that’s
about all.”
Mrs. Paget and her husband exchange
a glance. She was really very sick last
year. He makes his little pecking motion
with his upper lip as if to assure her that
when the time comes he will do all that
is necessary and decorous. But now she
is well; years and years of life lie before
her, warm and rosy and comfortable ; the
Children growing up; her husband, as
always, astonished at his good fortune in
possessing her.
“We’ll need a new volume by that
time,” says Mr. Paget with his grin.
Mr, Lord takes the scrapbook and feels
the weight of it on his lap. “But it’s
not all about you, truly, is it, Mrs.
Paget? y
“Every bit of it,” says Mrs. Paget in
mild, blushing triumph.
“Every bit of it,” her husband re-
peats. “It’s a novel, that’s what I say.
Or an autobiography. A really remark-
able document.”
“And it’s all from the Egmont ‘Ban-
ner’?” asks Mr, Lord.
“Oh, yes,” cries Mrs. Paget. And then,
with a deprecating little laugh, “I’ve
never been anywhere else, you know.”
“My word,” says Mr. Lord, t “lt just
shows you how important the ‘Banner’
is. It’s all down there in black and
white. Now a lot of this stuff would never
get into the big provincial papers that
are trying to creep in here.”
“Quite right,” pecks Mr, Paget. “I
believe in supporting the local paper.”
“Now this sort of thing,” says Mr.
Lord, reading from the great book on his
lap. “ ‘At the annual meeting of the
Egmont Croquet Club last night there
were present Mesdames Budge (chair),
Cooper, Grant, Pinkerton, Fowler and
Herring (hon. sec.). Apologies were re-
ceived from Mesdames Hoddle and Paget.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and confirmed.’ ”
“That’s a funny one to pick on first,”
laughs Mrs. Paget. “I wasn’t there that
time. I think it was 1934. I was away
on holidays at Opunake.”
“But still you were mentioned,” pecks
Mr. Paget firmly. “That’s the important
thing.”
“I wouldn’t have believed it,” says Mr.
Lord. “To think that one woman—lady,
I should say—in her lifetime ... It shows
you the service our paper gives.”
“Just turn back a page.” says Mrs,
Paget. “I’m sure you’ll find it says I was
away at Opunake.”
“You’re right,” says her husband, peck-
ing at | column headed “Personal” as
Mr. Lord turns back the page.
“By jove, yes, there it is!” says Mr.
Lord, his dark eyes kindling. “ ‘ Personal.
Mrs. W. Paget and family are holidaying
at Opunake Beach, where it is antici-
pated Mr. Paget will join them as soon as
the Festive Season permits him to leave
his emporium.’ ”
“You see,” says Mr, Paget, “it’s got
me in it, too. And the shop. All the
children, the four of them, are there too.
But mostly it’s Mrs. Paget. She’s the
only one who’s kept a record.”
“Oh, all the children are there!” cries
Mrs. Paget, just a shade defensively.
“Now turn back again, Mr. Lord. Oh,
further than that. Good heavens, that
was when I joined the Ladies’ Auxiliary.
Years before then. Look, there it is.
Look, Will, when Irene was born! ”
“ ‘Births, Deaths and Marriages,’ ”
reads Mr. Lord in a tone of awe. “ ‘Births.
April the fourteenth, 1917. To Mr. and
Mrs. W. Paget, a Girl. Both well.’ ”
“A girl!” repeats Mrs. Paget. “Both
well. Good heavens, Will, to think of
Irene as a baby! She’s out playing
tennis now. They’re all at the courts. 1
simply can’t keep them at home. Eric
won the junior championship last year.
I put that in.”
Mr. Lord flicks over the pages. “The
junior championship, eh,” he says. “Your
family have done remarkably well, Mrs.
Paget, Everyone says that.”
“Oh, yes,” cries Mrs. Paget happily.
“They’re good children. Look up when
Ellen won the scholarship, Mr. Lord.”
II A H,” says Mr. Lord roguishly.
r\ “You’re too modest, Mrs. Paget.
All about your children. But what is this
I see? First prize for soap!”
“I will say that,” agrees Mrs. Paget.
“I always was a good soap-maker.”
“Ten years running, first prize for soap
at the flower-show,” pecks Mr. Paget with
fitting pride.
“You look up that prize list for 1927,
Mr. Lord,” says Mrs. Paget, “and you’ll
see that Will got first prize for his daffo-
dils. He’s the modest one! ”
“Go on, Julia!” says Mr. Paget firmly,
though not ill-pleased. “I’m out of this.
I only come in as your husband.”
“Ha!” says Mr. Lord waggishly. “I
must look up the wedding.” He turns
the pages once more, scanning the brief
personal paragraphs, the long flower-
show prize lists, the catalogues of “those
present” at dances and balls and garden
parties, the accounts of committee meet-
ings—golf and croquet, the schodl, the
Women’s Auxiliary....
“Oh, dear!” says Mrs. Paget. “There’s
poor mother’s obituary. And there’s the
funeral notice. 1 always hated that
undertaker . ■ . Don’t look up the wed-
ding, Mr. Lord. It always makes me feel
shy. Ridiculous, isn’t it? At my age! ”
“You were pretty shy then all right,”
says Mr* Paget, with the grin on each
side of his beak. “You didn’t seem to
know where you were at all.”
“Well,” says Mr. Lord, “Mrs. Paget
would only have had to look Up this book
to find out where she was, if she was
ever in any doubt about it. I’ll have to
take it to the office with me, over the
week-end, to make up my story from it, if
you don’t mind, Mrs. Paget.”
“Just be careful you don’t lose it,”
pecks in Mr. Paget.
“One question, if I may, Mrs. Paget,”
says Mr. Lord deferentially. “May I
ask when you first decided to keep this
remarkable record?”
“I’ve always done it,” says Mrs. Paget.
“I really don’t know why.” Her blue
eyes blink behind her spectacles and she
says with a note of triumph, “I began it
when I was six years old. You look, and
you’ll sefe it. There!’
“ ‘Sunday School Concert, reads Mr -
Lord. “‘Charming Operetta by
Tots.’ Yes, that’s right. And there s the
name of Julia Morrison!”
“1 was a tiny tot then!” laughs Mrs.
Paget. “Dear, dear, it does seem ridi-
culous now. I was a flower. Dressed
up as a flower on the stage, a pink rose-
bud. And Will—he was one of the boys
of the Sunday School then; oh, we ve
known each other since we were in
cradles —he was” —Mrs. Paget chuck es,
“I,” says Mr. Paget grimly, “was a
“Anyhow,” says his wife, “I remember
my mother showing me my name in the
paper. I was just old enough to under-
stand. That word, those words, rather,
‘Julia Morrison,’ printed there for every-
one to read, that meant me. Well, I was
wildly excited. I thought it was the most
wonderful thing that had ever happened
to me. Oh, it wasn’t just because every-
body would read about me and know 1
had been a rosebud on the stage. I don t
think I cared about that at all. It wasn t
what you’d call the publicity. It was just
—oh. I’m bothered if I know! I’m sure
I’ve talked too much about myself and
I’m not at all sure I should let you put
anything about it in the paper.”
“Of course it’s going in the paper,
pecks Mr. Paget. “By jove, you know,
there’s only one thing missing in that
record, and that’s her birth notice. ’
“Well!” says Mrs. Paget. “Do you
know, I never thought about that.
“I’ll look it up, just for fun,” says Mr.
Lord. “I might be able to work it into
the story. We can’t have you beginning
life at the age of six at a Sunday School
concert, you know.”
“It’s bound to be there, in the files,”
says Mrs, Paget. “February 1897,
it would have been. My, doesn t that
seem a long time ago! I’d really never
thought about having been born. You ve
given me quite a turn. I do hope you
can find me.”
Mr, Paget glances amusedly at Ms
wife. “I should think Mr. Lord will clip
out the birth notice and give it to you to
paste in the book if you’d, like to have
it,” he says. ' „ ,
“I’m afraid I couldn’t do that, hesitates
Mr. Lord. “I’d have to ask the editor.
I don’t think he would agee. You see,
the files—the bound volumes —there s
only one set in the office. W® re never
allowed to cut them.”
“Oh, I see,” says Mrs. Paget, her
plump, amiable face momentarily
puckered. “Well, I don’t suppose it
matters. It’s ridiculous, really. I wish I
hadn’t let you persuade me to drag out
this silly old scrapbook at all.”
“I’ll tell you what,” offers Mr. Lord.
“I’ll reprint the notice when I do my
story and you can clip that out. How’s
that now?”
“Splendid!” says Mr. Paget.
“I don’t know at all,” says Mrs. Paget
doubtfully. “Do you really think it
would do, Will? It doesn’t seem the same
thing at all.”
Mr. Paget pecks up the worm of her
doubt and swallows it. “Of course it will
do, Julia,” he says firmly. “We’ll look
forward to the ‘Banner’ on Monday, Mr.
Lord.”
I N Mr. Lord’s report in Monday after-
-1 noon’s “Banner” there may be detected
several deft touches due to the improving
pencil of the editor himself, J. B. Duggan.
And, no doubt (for few journalists as ex-
perienced as Mr. Duggan condescend to
read anything in their newspapers except
what they have written themselves), it is
his own improvements that draw his eyes
now to Mr. Lord’s article as, seated
among the files while his printing motor
chugs like a launch in the machine-room
at the back, he glances approvingly over
an early copy of the paper.
Yes, thinks J. B. Duggan—a stalwart,
rugged man of 50 with blue-black jowls
and bristling grey-black hair and eye-
brows —yes, young Lord shouldn’t have
written “died.” Too crude. Passed away.
And complacently, he reads that Mrs.
Paget’s mother, “after a worthy lifetime
'of many years, chiefly devoted to the care
of her husband and numerous family.


v. . , ■ ■
mmmm '
■HBP* ■ . ■;
wi
!»*?■
FOR
MEN
WHO
passed away at the age of 82.” She “pre-
deceased her husband, the late Mr. Walter
Morrison,” it appears, “by only a short
span of years when he, too, passed on.”
That “laid aside,” too, referring to
Mrs. Paget’s illness last year is his own
improvement; and, a whole world of
poetry in an adjective, that insertion of
‘‘halcyon” into young Lord’s reference to
“the far-off days of the newly-wed Mr.
and Mrs. Paget’s honeymoon jaunt to
the bright lights of Wellington”—the far-
off halcyon days.
J. B. Duggan, suddenly snorting, re-
calls a slight misuse of journalistic ter-
minology when young Lord—and a
blooming young sissy he was in those
days!— wrote of a later honeymoon
journey that the young couple would tour
the North Island by car, “embracing stops
at Hamilton, Rotorua, Gisborne and
Whakatane.” There had been a good
deal of ribaldry in Egrnont over those
“embracing stops.”
And, thinks J. B. Duggan, his mirth
changing to anger, unnecessary ribaldry.
People were always looking for mistakes
in the “Banner.”, Seemed to think the
blasted paper was a joke. A joke! And
the job printing going out of town,
and the big provincial papers stealing
circulation and advertisements, and the
machines always breaking down, and the
rain always coming through the roof and
flooding the whole office two inches deep,
and the Rev. Mr. Purdie never paying
for the printing of the Parish Magazine
... A joke!
“Mrs. Paget to see you, Mr. Duggan.”
There is something about Mrs. Paget
—the blueness of her eyes and the soft-
ness of her hair, perhaps, or the richness
of her voice, or the curve of her bosom
in a light-blue floral frock —that warms
the editor’s heart. Besides, she is famous
this afternoon. And besides, J. B. Duggan
has schooled himself always to be
gracious to subscribers.
“Come in, Mrs, Paget,” he says heartily.
“Seen the paper?”
“Not yet,” says Mrs. Paget, a little
flustered. “I came to pick up my book
of clippings, if you’ve finished with it,
Mr. Duggan. You won’t want that old
thing lying around.”
“That old thing’s made history, Mrs.
Paget, and don’t you forget it. It’s right
here on the table. Guarded by the editor
himself.”
“Oh, thank you, Mr. Duggan. I
didn’t see it there under your paper. Do
you know, I feel quite relieved to have it
in my hands again.” And Mrs. Paget,
smiling, presses the leather-bound volume
for a moment against the rotundity of her
breast.
“Here. By jove! Just hand me that
volume, Mrs. Paget, just for a moment.
I’ll give it right back to you.” J. B.
Duggan, as Mrs. Paget lays the great book
on the table, snatches up the scissors with
which he is accustomed to compose
his leading-articles. And he slashes at
this evening’s copy of the “Banner,” then
busies himself with brush and paste-pot
and Mrs, Paget’s book, “There! Now
read what the ‘Banner’ thinks about your
old book.”
Mrs. Paget reads.
i 1 D EM ARK ABLE Record,” says the
1 '■heading in big type at the top of
the page. “Egrnont Lady’s Scrapbook,”
says the second; “Amazing Service of
‘Banner’ ” ; “Husband Pays Tribute,”
“I thought,” says Mrs, Paget, “it was
Mr. Lord who said that about my book
showing the service the ‘Banner’ gives to
the community.”
“Oh, well”—says J. B. Duggan.
“But perhaps Mr. Paget did say it, too,”
says Mrs. Paget. “I’m sure I was much
too confused to know what was being
said. It’s certainly true, at any rate. You
do give a wonderful service, Mr. Duggan.
You really do.”
J. B. Duggan is charmed. “The
‘Banner’ does its best,” he says. “But
it took your scrapbook to prove it.”
“But I’m such an ordinary person,”
says Mrs. Paget, shaking her head in mild
bewilderment. “In all this book you
won’t find I’ve done a single important
thing in all my life, I don’t know what
people will think about m\ being written
up like this.”
“Well, I don’t know,” says J. B.
Duggan. “President of the Croquet
Club . . . mother of a fine family . . .
But that’s just the point. This book is the
important thing. It’s unique. It’s a rarity.
I don’t know anybody else who’s ever
made such a collection—so complete, so
thorough; everything that’s ever been
said about them in the newspaper since
they were born. Now you just read
young Lord’s first paragraph”
“By dint of collecting and pasting in
a scrapbook all references to her good
self in the Egrnont ‘Banner’ since early
childhood,” reads Mrs. Paget to herself,
“an Egrnont lady, Mrs. W. Paget, of 17
Pinegrove-road, Egrnont, has assembled
a truly remarkable record. An Egrnont
‘Banner’ reporter, who was privileged
to witness the volume at Mrs. Paget’s
delightful home, at 17 Pinegrove-road,
Egrnont, in the presence of Mrs, Paget
and her husband, Mr, William Paget,
(Continued on page 32.)
Bores; the Lot of Us.
When Life—a worn-out, weary host —•
Would have her guests away to bed.
She hides the Scotch; then pours the
most
Atrocious stuff she’s got instead.
And I, for one, have often thunk
She mightn’t want us just plain drunk —
But pukka rigor! sterling dead.
n.s.w.
HUGH McCRAE.


A large percentage of economic waste is
caused by the destruction of property by FIRE,
and while such waste cannot be eliminated, the
individual can avoid financial devastation by
making adequate use of the valuable and
necessary service rendered to the community
by Insurance Companies.
The prompt service given enables reconstruc-
tion to commence immediately, and is the
means of restoring to the workers employment
which might otherwise be lost to them.
The Australian public has been brought to
realise that the support of Australian indus-
tries by every individual is helping the country
generally to right its difficulties, but continued
patronage is necessary in order to reduce our
country’s “total indebtedness” and thus speed
the return to prosperity and financial stability.
FOR 68 Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
ah Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
S - ■-■ S -
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all “MARS”
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
from a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. P.y. Ltd.
df
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VlC—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Ohowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE —R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN q'land OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYPNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners* and Householders*,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. VERSUS U.S.S.R.
In March, 1945, the Gallup people in
America conducted a poll on the ques-
tion: Do you think the United States
will find itself in another war within, say,
the next 25 years ?
Of those who gave an answer, 38 per
cent, said Yes, 45 per cent. No.
Put as a tester at intervals since, the
same question’s answers today are: 73
per cent., Yes; 18 per cent.. No.
In another way of stating it, seven out
of every 10 recently polled expect World
War 111 within 25 years. As an even
stronger comment on the way things have
been shaping, five out of every 10 expect
it within 10 years. And there are those
who hold that it is on now.
None of them likes the idea of it.
They would prefer to be without inter-
national commitments. After all, as a
writer in “Foreign Affairs” points out:
“Twenty-five years ago we [Americans]
regarded international organisations as
hardly safe for anything more controver-
sial than co-operative letter-carrying and
hunting icebergs.”
But the commitments and something
much more “controversial” are there.
The war-winning coalition —an awkward
association even in war—-has burst wide
asunder. In its place is the armed truce
—not between the war opponents, but
between the victors.
Marshall’s Call for Action
Everybody knows the principal adver-
saries—the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. and
the systems they stand for. Also that the
tension between them, steadily mounting
since the end of the late war, has in-
creased at a terrific rate since the total
failure of the Moscow conference.
It is another, and a deep, reflection on
the state of the world that, while nobody
—not even the delegates who went there
—expected anything of that conference,
everybody has since felt disappointed
that there was nothing. This feeling of
hopelessness —very general, and very like
that which prevailed just before the late
war, intensified again by the issuing of
“grave warnings” and “strongly-worded
Notes,” this time to the Red Fascists,
over Hungary—was keenly expressed
after Moscow by the two chief members
of the U.S. delegation. Secretary of State
Marshall and his adviser, John Foster
Dulles.
The Secretary spoke the more carefully,
under the weight of responsibility; but
he admitted that no answers had been
found to “questions which have to do
with boundaries, with power to prevent
military aggression, with people who
have bitter memories, with the production
and control of things which are essential
to the lives of millions of people”:
Disintegrating forces are becoming evident.
The patient is sinking while the doctors de-
liberate. So I believe action cannot await
compromise through exhaustion [an expression
used to him by Stalin]. New issues arise daily.
Whatever action is possible to meet these
pressing problems must be taken without delay.
“The state of the world today,’ and the
position of the United States,” Secretary
Marshall concluded, “make mandatory,
in my opinion, a unity of action on the
part of the American people.”
How Soviet Policy Works
Both Secretary Marshall and Mr.
Dufles spoke of “gains” from the con-
ference, but, while the Secretary appeared
to speak optimistically, his adviser spoke
ironically. “We did not come home
empty-handed,” said Mr. Dulles; “we
bring back better understanding of how
Soviet foreign policy works”:
It depends little on getting results by diplo-
matic negotiation. It depends much on getting
results by penetrating into the political parties
and labor organisations of other countries.
Soviet leaders have such confidence in these
methods that they are willing to let Germany
again become a great industrial Power. They
are using those methods now to get the kind
of Germany they want.
Mr. Dulles declared that the labor
unions in not only the Soviet but also in
the French zones were already “subject
to the Soviet will,” while “in the British
and United States zones Soviet influence
in the political parties is growing rapidly.
Soviet agitators there, as elsewhere, have
ample funds, they are well trained and
they are adept at enlisting local zealots
and malcontents and getting them into
key positions”:
We must not feel complacent because we
have supremacy in certain kinds of military
weapons. The challenge we face is not a
military one. I am confident that Soviet leaders
Chicago “Daily News.”
“I WANT AN ISLAND, TOO.”
do not want war. Also, they are too smart to
challenge us at a level where, temporarily at
least, they are at a grave disadvantage.
Stating that U.S. policy should show
“that free institutions are the means
whereby men can save themselves from
the sea of misery in which they find
themselves,” and contrasting this with the
entirely opposite basis of Soviet policy,
Mr. Dulles added: —•
If we can find the way to bring other people
to understand what our policies really are and
how they work, then I am confident that our
policies will be so welcomed that the con-
tradictory policies of the Soviet Union will
give way before our own.
Thus, while both these leading U.S,
representatives were expressing the
generally-felt disappointment at the out-
come of Moscow, they were also making
clearer the fact that the struggle between
the U.S. and the U.S S.R. and the systems
of both is on. Of the two, the soldier,
Secretary Marshall, seemed to like the
idea .least.
Don’t Slap—Punch!
Mr, Dulles, it should be said, belongs
to the hitherto traditionally isolationist
Republican party; but this is a struggle
above parties—a Struggle for the World,
under which title it is the theme of a
strikingly outspoken book, by James
Burnham, recently published in America.
This book, again, of course is an out-
come of those feelings expressed in the
quoted Gallup polls and by Secretary
Marshall and Mr. Dulles; even, up to a
point, by such a diehard pillar of isola-
tionism as the Chicago “Tribune,” which
has amazingly come out with a leader
headed “Why Not an Ultimatum to
Russia?” The old “Tribune’s” sensation,
however, came only to this: “Would it
not be more nearly common sense to give
Russia an ultimatum either to come into
conferences with an honest spirit or to
step out?” It went on then to fulminate
about “semi-Communist Great Britain”
and other pet aversions ; the “Tribune” is
a marvellous fulminator. However, even
it, though reflecting the general reluct-
ance, sounded most unusually belliger-
ent: —
If the squirrels are not already after American
foreign policy, they soon will be. It contains
heir complete diet. An old-time prize-fighter
and trainer told his novices never to slap ' a
man. A slap was infuriating, it did no damage,
and it exposed the slapper to a punch which
might put him away. If a fellow could not
walk away from a quarrel he should try for
a knockout! Secretary Marshall, remarking to
the Senators that he is a soldier, favors the
Truman face-slapping—the squirrel diet all the
way from sunflower seeds to nuts.
Mr. Burnham, too, is a passable ful-
minator ; but, whereas the alternative for
Uncle Sam which the “Tribune” would,
of course, advocate in the quarrel would
be that of “walking away,” Mr. Burn-
ham, in his lately much-discussed book,
strongly favors wading right in,
“War Already On”
Mr. Burnham is one of those who
accept that World War 111 is already on.
He interprets the past Communist war-
ring in Greece, following the mutiny
on Greek warships in 1944, as “skir-
mishes between the Soviet Union and
the British Empire.” Similarly the Com-
munist rising in China —a Soviet move
against the U.S.: “These conflicts, in
China and Greece, were not the final
phases of World War II but the opening
skirmishes in another war.” And,
“Already thousands, even tens of thou-
sands, of men have been killed in this
war, among them armed soldiers of the
U.S.”
As Mr. Burnham sees it, there is now
no choice for Uncle Sam between isola-
tionism (or even pseudo-neutrality) and
the part of action: “The U.S. has already
made the irreversible jump into world
affairs”:
It is committed everywhere, on every con-
tinent, in every major field of social action,
and it can never again withdraw. We haye
now entered a period of American history in
which world politics take precedence oyer,
national and internal policies and in which
world politics literally involve the enUre world.
All of world politics and all of what is most
important in the internal politics of each nation
are oriented around the struggle for world
power between Soviet-based Communism and
the U.S. _
Quoting Stalin—“lt is inconceivable
that the Soviet Republic should continue
to exist interminably side by side with
imperialist States; ultimately one or
another must conquer”—the writer con-
tends that unless the U.S. is to be the
one on the losing side it must completely
reverse past policy. He cites some
errors:
The Communist Polish Government promises
democratic elections, so you throw the London
Poles out the window. England must export
to live, so you make them haggle over interest
rates on a Government loan. Chiang Kai-shek
is not as democratic as he might be, so you
tell him he must take Communists into his
Government.
What is wrong, however, is not this oik that
tactic, but the basic idea of the policy with
which we came out of the war. This idea is
that, by some means or combination of means,
we must and will solve the problems of world
politics by “getting along with Russia” and
this is interpreted to mean getting along not
with the Russian people—who could be friendly
enough—but with the Communist regime which
now dominates Russia. But the truth is that
we can “get along” with Communism in only
one way: by capitulating to it.
Touching on the “much-debated Soviet
veto” (which has made U.N.O. a farce
and a futility), the writer interprets it as
simply meaning “that the U.S. has been
unwilling to make any political move
which might risk the serious disapproval
of the Soviet Union”: —-
The only way for the U.S. to avoid the Soviet
veto is to make decisions independently in the
light only of the perspective of U.S. policy
without reference to the possible Soviet attitude,
and then to carry these decisions through
whatever the Soviet Union may say or do.
Non-Communist Federation
In this struggle between the U.S. and
the U.S.S.R.:
If the Communists are not to win there must
be presented to the Governments and the
peoples of the world a positive alternative to
the Communist plan for world domination
which will meet the demands of the crisis. This
alternative can only be a non-Communist world
federation —a federation of at least enough of
the world to dominate effectively the major
questions of world politics.
An outline of the “non-Communist
world federation” is here condensed, with
some of the writer’s more pungent com-
ments :
This federation can be brought about only if
the U.S., retaining for itself monopoly control
of atomic weapons, assumes responsibility for
world leadership.
There is already an American empire, greatly
expanded during these past five years. The
American empire in effect reaches out to
include the many islands of the Atlantic
and the Pacific, implicitly dominated by U.S.
military and naval installations. For that mat-
ter, those parts of Africa and Europe where
U.S. armed force is supreme are also, for now
at least, in the empire. AH of the Americas
already lie within it. Canada, too, in terms
of political reality, must be included within the
American empire. Maps of U.S. war resources
have for many years included those of Canada.
An imperial policy is not, therefore, some-
thing new for the U.S. It has been and con-
tinues to be forced upon the U.S. by the
dynamic effects of power relationships. The
relative strength of the U.S. is too great to
permit passivity. The U.S. cannot help build-
ing an empire. But U.S. opinion has never
been willing to face consciously the significance
of the U.S. political position. The realities
of the struggle for power are overlaid with
a crust of pseudo-moral platitudes by which
U.S. citizens and leaders try to convince them-
selves that they always act from the most
altruistic of ideal motives.
The U.S. cannot win the leadership of a
workable world political order merely by the
rational appeal to other nations that its empire


YOUR TO3ACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO..
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL Nf-,
♦ RURAL BJ\NK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
d
If you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread oyer a
period of years.
RURAL BANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MAXIMUM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
* RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
*L BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL Nf #
REVJtf';
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cnticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder., $33
t
OiNTMEN
would be preferable to totalitarian degradation.
We would have to proceed primarily through
a combination of pressures and concessions.
The U.S., with its colossal and indeed overbuilt
productive machine, is in a position, if it is
prepared for unorthodox methods, to grant
enormous economic concessions in the interests
of a supreme political objective. Loans
relief, profitable trading agreements,
machines, floods of wanted consumers’ goods,
easy financial terms, these all speak a language
that is everywhere understood. They could
all be made to repeat the lesson that it is a
materially profitable and pleasant thing to be
associated with the U.S.
It would be fatally wrong for the U.S. to
adopt officially the feeling of many of its
citizens that all nations ought to model their
political and social institutions after the U.S.
pattern. Others may not like the pattern and
may still be neither barbarians nor menaces
to world security.
Concessions alone would not be enough.
Concessions alone give others the impression
not of generosity but of weakness. Concessions
must be understood as one side of a coin
whose reverse is force. The realisation that
it is good to be a friend of the U.S. must be
inseparably tied to the further realisation that
it is fearful to be its enemy. At all points
bracing the concessions, there must be the
buttresses of power. Power must be there,
with the known readiness to use it, whether
in the indirect form of paralysing economic
sanctions or in the direct explosion of bombs.
As the ultimate reserve in power, there would
be monopoly control of atomic weapons.
Union with Britain
The U.S. should immediately propose to
Great Britain and the British Dominions; Com-
mon citizenship and full political union. A
de facto Anglo-American alliance already exists.
Actual union would be a catalyst which would
instantaneously transform the whole of world
politics. The U.S., Britain and her Dominions
confront a common fate. They will, whether
they admit it or not, survive together or be
destroyed together.
Foreshortened Europe is today pressed back
against the Atlantic by the advance units of
the Communist power. In the still non-
Cpmmunist sections of the Continent the re-
maining nations, starved and weakened,
squander their last reserves of energy in snarl-
ing at each other’s heels, pouncing at meatless
bones and re-fighting the lost battles of yester-
day. It is a dreary, self-defeating spectacle.
There is so plainly only one possible solution.
Under the protection and guidance of Anglo-
America there must be swiftly built a Euro-
pean federation, joining all those Continental
countries not now under Communist domina-
tion and, as its attractive power grows, draw-
ing to itself the victims now behind the iron
curtain.
Can anyone believe that Europe will endure
even a decade longer under present conditions?
What answer other than European federation
can there possibly be? The combined tactics
of Anglo-American concession and compulsion
must bring unity through a process that simul-
taneously rids Europe of internal Communism,
The U.S. could not carry out this world
policy, or any policy remotely like it, unless
Communism within the U.S. were reduced to
impotence. Is this compatible with the prin-
ciples of democratic government? The usual
reply—spoken most loudly of all by the Com-
munists themselves and their sympathisers—
is that illegalisation and suppression of the
internal Communist movement would be an
obvious violation of the fundamental democratic
rights of free speech and assembly. Democracy
in practice has never and could never interpret
the right of free speech in an absolute and
unrestricted sense. No one, for example, is
allowed to advocate and organise for mass
murder, rape and arson. The threat of the
Communist movement to democratic govern-
ment is absolutely clear, demonstrated. The
total internal influence of its combined forces,
supplemented by the pressures from without of
its world apparatus, is already so powerful
as to be a major chaSenge to the sovereignty
of the U.S. Government. The danger to
democracy in the U.S. from the continued
existence of the Communist movement is so
much greater than the possible danger from
the act of suppression that there are no grounds
for democratic hesitation. The survival of
democracy in this country requires the sup-
pression of Communism, now.
Raising the question of whether Uncle
Sam as world leader would become a
tyrant, Mr. Burnham holds that, though
the U.S. has today very great power,
“greater than its own spokesmen rea-
lise,” it has not power enough to impose
totalitarian rule over the rest of the
world: “The U.S. can lead only by ac-
cepting others as partners.” As well, “an
ironic protection” against tyrannising,
there is “the unwillingness of the U.S.
to rule the world”:
No people pushed by forces they cannot
control ever entered on the paths of world
power with less taste for the journey.
Whatever may be thought of some of
the writer’s ideas, there can be little ques-
tion about that last conclusion. The very
launching of the “Truman doctrine” of
facing up to the Russian Bear by stepping
into Greece and giving aid to Turkey
was haggled over for months, and one
of the strongest debating points was that
it would not involve Uncle Sam in war.
That glory of world supremacy once
held in lonely splendor by Britain is all
very well; the burden of its responsi-
bility, which Britain for so long shoul-
dered, is another matter. But for Uncle
Sam the die has been cast.
PROBABLE LINE-UP.
“United Nations World” —not official
U.N.0., but based on and strongly sup-
porting it —publishes a curious listing of
the nations under the heading “The
Probable Line-up—lf Disaster Came.”
Australia gets a striking mention. The
listing not only picks the “sides” and
gives those expected to stay, or try to
stay, on the sidelines, but also indicates
an opinion on what would happen in
each country itself.
Australia, in the “Western bloc,” is one
of the countries labelled “Would ex-
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
HAD ENOUGH?
perience considerable unrest.” So is New
Zealand.
In this “bloc,” South Africa, oddly, is
not so labelled ; neither is Canada nor
the United States. Turkey, also, is given
a clean bill; but “considerable unrest” is
expected in Britain, Argentina, Brazil,
Egypt and the Philippines. Greece would
be “a centre of grave trouble.” Others
listed in the “Western bloc” are Col-
ombia, Iran, Irak and Saudi Arabia (all
“unable to put a modern army in the
field”). The total population given for
the “bloc” is 414,000,000.
Of the “Soviet bloc” (293,000,000), only
the U.S.S.R. itself and Bulgaria are not
expected to have internal unrest. Those
in the “bloc” labelled for unrest are
Czechoslovakia, Finland, • Hungary,
Poland, Rumania and Yugoslavia. The
other two in the “bloc,” Albania and the
Mongolian People’s Republic, are labelled
“no army.”
This still leaves over a fair amount of
the earth. Of the rest, Belgium and
Luxembourg, Denmark, India, Eire,
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden
and Switzerland would try to stay neutral.
Labelled “uncertain” are Afghanistan,
Africa (excluding Egypt, French terri-
tories and South Africa), Burma, Chile,
Dutch East Indies, Indo-China, Lebanon,
Malaya, Mexico, Siam, Syria, Venezuela
and Yemen.
There a‘re still four of tidy size, China,
France, Italy and Spain : what is ex-
pected for them is civil war,
Germany and Austria are labelled
“Probably quickly overrun by U.S.S.R.,
but retaining strong pro-Western under-
ground.”
Finally, there is Japan. It is expected
to be “in the Western line-up!”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Tyrant Uncle Sam. —In the frank American
book, The Struggle for the World, by James
Burnham, quoted in the article “U.S. Versus
U.5.5.R.,” the author raises the question “Would
not the U.S., if it became world leader, turn
out in the end to be world tyrant?” He does
not mince his answer: “It might be so. There
can be no certainty against it. We must say
even more than this. There is in American
life a strain of callow brutality. This betrays
itself no less in the lynching and gangsterism
at home than in the arrogance and hooliganism
of soldiers or tourists abroad. The provin-
cialism of the American mind expresses itself
in a lack of sensitivity toward other peoples
and other cultures. There is in many Ameri-
cans an ignorant contempt for ideas and
tradition and history, a complacency with the
trifles of merely material triumph. Who,
listening a few hours to the American radio,
could repress a shudder if he thought that the
price of survival would be the Americanisation
of the world?”
* * * *
Worried U.N.O. Secretary. —Under fire from
various U.S. quarters (mainly on the ground
of Com. appointments), U.N.O.’s Secretary-
General Trygve Lie is reported by “United
Nations World” to be feeling the strain: “Lie’s
face is heavily drawn these days, and the man
with a proverbial ability to fall asleep any
time he has an opportunity is beginning to dis-
cover the discomfort of insomnia.” “United
States News” declares that Lie “has known for
some time that some of his top aides have
been suspected by U.S. officials of a special
friendliness for Russia.” The “News” has also
stated: “Hi>h officials of the U.S. Government
were not surprised when an appointee of Mr.
Lie’s was caught trying to rifle the papers of
the British representative on the commission
investigating guerrilla activities in Greece.” One
of the Secretary’s greatest worries, however,
must be convincing himself that U.N.O. can,
after all, be made a success.- A side comment
on that is the criticism of Mr. Truman for
not embracing U.N.O. in the plan to aid
Greece and Turkey, with the staggering sub-
sequent explanation that the President and his
advisers clean forgot it.
* * * t
Coming Setback: How Bad? —“Uriited States
News,” generally very well informed on. U.S.
affairs, has no comfort to offer Stalin and Co.
in their openly expressed expectation that
America is in for a huge depression: “Russia
is betting on a blow-up like that of 1929 and
is waiting to pick up the pieces. Britain and
the nations of Western Europe are worried lest
a U.S. crash wreck their own chances of re-
covery. Actually, no crash of the 1929 type
is indicated. All, the yardsticks that are used
to measure business trends point to a decline
that will be less severe even than the declines
of 1920-21 and 1937-38.” Stating that business
shows no signs of heading into any major
depression, the paper adds: “Compared with
pre-war standards, activity at the bottom of
the turn still will look like a peace-time boom.
Production at the lowest point promises to be
at least half as great again as in 1939.”
* * * *
Prophetic Words, Strange Prophet. The
writer of a “Collier’s” article has dug up some
comments written for N.Y. “Tribune” in 1853 :
“Russia may seem to be obstinately and deeply
attached to certain fixed ideas, .but as soon as
the other Powers resist in a determined and
united way they will find that Russia will accept
a modest retreat.” The writer was Karl Marx,
then a “Tribune” correspondent. On what has
again become a live issue, he also commented:
“If Russia gets hold of Turkey its power will
b'e doubled and it will become the master of
all Europe. Such an event will constitute a
misfortune of indescribable magnitude.”
* * * *
Holding Hong Kong. —Even visitors to China
not notably friendly to J. Bull have commented
on the remarkable recovery of Hong Kong as
a going concern again, compared to the “swift
decomposition” of the rest of the land. While
the civil war drags on, and drags the body of
China further and further down, law and
order and a stable currency are enabling Hong
Kong virtually to take on the job of “all the
previous treaty ports.” Its importance both
to China and to Britain is the theme of a
Manchester “Guardian Weekly” article by
Walter Fletcher, M.P., concluding: “If China
is to be rebuilt and become again a great con-
tributor to Far Eastern prosperity and stability
it can only be done with the use of Hong Kong
as a permanent and solid base for such efforts.
Once more Great Britain and the Empire can
play a fine and inspiring role in helping China
and its misgoverned millions with benefit to
ourselves, but only if we retain —and make it
clear that we are going to retain-—Hong Kong.”
* * * *
Neutrality Pays. —ln the current attempts to
bring about an economically “United Europe,”
the countries making the first moves —Britain
and France, Luxembourg and the Low Coun-
tries —and others most likely to join in were
all heavy war sufferers. On which “United
Nations World” has commented: “Looking at
the economic map of Europe—once the most
prosperous continent on the earth —one finds
that the only countries enjoying varying degrees
of prosperity are Sweden, Switzerland, Den-
mark, Portugal and Eire; all, with the excep-
tion of Denmark, neutrals in World War II.”
On the other hand, of course, the U.S. and
Canada, being in the war but not having the
fight brought home to them, were two that
the war expanded enormously.
* * * *
The Displaced. —Of the “displaced persons”
in European camps, practically all of them
eager to get out of Europe, some 320,000 are
Poles and 177,000 hail from the Baltic States,
having got out before the .Soviet could trans-
plant them to slave labor, as it is transplanting
hundreds of thousands of their countrymen.
Also, 30,000 are Yugoslavs, preferring anything
to Tito. They represent almost all religions,
with about 80 per cent, belonging to Christian
faiths and 20 per cent. Jewish.
* * * *
O Wad Some Power. - What the Chicago
“Tribune” will have to say about the recent
whooping in Australian dailies under such head-
ings as “Big U.S. Plan for Pacific Defences,”
with the statement that “The U.S. is under-
stood to have offered full assistance to a
British Empire defence group that would provide
a buttress to America in the Pacific,” should
make lively reading. When Australian objec-
tions to U.S. Pacific trusteeships were with-
drawn in U.N.0., leading to the resignation of
Mr. Paul Hasluck, the “Tribune” ran a leader
headed “Australia Retreats,” commenting:
“Australia’s situation today is again as com-
fortable as it was after American military and
naval staff representatives decreed bounds at
the Singapore conference in April, 1941, which
Japan was not to be permitted to overstep
except at the cost of war with the United States.
The imperial outpost has been given the same
kind of insurance, and on these terms it is
quite willing to let the American Army and
Navy man the island outposts which will be
buffers against any attack.”


#T:3 -ft.'-V*-
■HV
; M*
Hi
Hi
itiiiii
■
mm
■ ■ ■■:■'*
m
WMm
ms?*'
mH I
:-
«:S©
m
iiiiiilii
- *
I
w
SILt .’ :: li
■.
" ye.
: ii
I*
Mis.
...............j!£l
3J
Si 1
mmmm
M
•: ■ •>:.
mM:
ign|
Hn
Hi
--
- V - "v
m
'&&-W
i
■■ ;,'<
■
mm
. .
m • ♦**
? - JSftpttfc
mmm
■ :■...-
; %
liiii
a ar
■IIP
m
, ' i
i
-
ME
‘of
lyll
mm
'■>:.
'■■•-•.,, i-, mm --1
f Q
mg. s
■h
J
W
the cry that creates a
deadly fear in every heart..
No building ... home, office,
factory, warehouse or theatre
should be without a ‘Simplex’
Fire Extinguisher.
A ‘Simplex’ requires no tech-
nical knowledge to operate.
Portable, self - contained, you
simply turn it upside down and
direct the high pressure stream
of fire extinguishing liquid at
the base of the fire. Within
seconds the outbreak is killed
... a small outbreak that might
have caused devastating loss.
That’s why Insurance Com-
panies rebate generously on fire
ii
m
<sm
Hißil
m
mSmi
M
: .
insurance rates for buildings
equipped with a ‘Simplex’.
With a ‘Simplex’ it’s just a
matter of e hosing that fire out’.
Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd.,
makers of ‘Simplex’ Fire Ex-
tinguishers, have specialised in
Fire Protection Engineering
since 1889. Expert advice
given on protection from all
types of fire risk. “Grinnell”
Automatic Sprinkler, “Mulsi-
fyre” System, “Simplex”
Airfoam, “Lux” Extinguishers,
Fixed Installations."
“SIMPLEX” FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
WORMALD BROTHERS PTY. LTD.
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Darwin, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart,
Wellington, Christchurch, Auckland, Dunedin


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3513
Wednesday, June 25, 1947
BEYOND THE BRISBANE LINE.
Don’t be so captious, Mr. Ward. We’ve had a war, you know.”
“WOT, here too?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEADHEADS ABROAD.
Going abroad for the first time to ex-
perience the alleged benefits of educa-
tion by travel, with which Shakspeare
and Lincoln dispensed, as did some of
the greatest of the ancients, Mr. Ward
bore down on the country he has always
hated, England.
The “Labor” Minister of Transport
and External Territories would infinitely
have preferred to make his first European
landfall in Russia, that Holy Land to
his Communist friends, o'f which he said
in 1944, when Mr. Curtin was about to
go to London, “More progress has been
made in Soviet Russia in 25 years than
in any capitalist country in 10 times that
period”—2so years! But He had a large
party in tow, and time and geography
(though not, of course, expense) had to
be considered, so he was obliged to leave
the delights of Russia for a later sampling.
The privileged traveller was in the
United Kingdom for five days. That
would give him 40 hours for slumber, 15
hours for meals and a maximum of 65
hours for explorations in “capitalist”
civilisation. But at the end of the 65
hours, or whatever the time was, he had
his judgment ready, and it was such as
if he had written it out beforehand or
if it had been written for him from the
other Paddington by Alderman Green,
a former City Council celebrity. He
delivered it at Geneva, to which city he
had hurried back to attend an Interna-
tional Labor Office conference (“my first
overseas assignment”), and it was cabled
from Geneva in the third person to the
Sydney “Sun”:
Mr. Ward said he had been shocked at
the poverty and low standard of living in
many parts of Britain. He was astounded
that, after so many years of Britain’s world
ascendancy, conditions should be so bad.
His impression was that the gap between
rich and poor was, if anything, widening
rather than narrowing.
The explosion was heard in England
when the Labor Lord President of the
Council was surveying the employment
position and the economic outlook. Mr.
Herbert Morrison said that employment
was the highest on record, but that the
country would have to get its exports
up and keep its imports down by every
possible means, particularly by improv-
ing its coal and steel production, of
which there was heartening evidence. It
is not clear whether Mr. Herbert
Morrison disdained to reply to Mr. Ward,
but ample and contemptuous replies were
forthcoming from, among others, the
Liberal Whip, Mr. Byers, and one of the
Labor “rebels,” Mr. Driberg—like Mr.
Ward, a Friend of Russia.
Said Mr. Byers, who was a Colonel in
the late war:
I wonder where Mr. Ward lunched and
dined during his five days in England. His
statement is patently untrue, as he would
have found for himself had he bothered
to go into the matter. High taxation has
appreciably narrowed the gap between the
rich and the poor, and the fair system of
rationing and food subsidy has also radi-
cally reduced the disparity. Only some-
one living in luxury in a West End hotel
—a completely false example—could have
made a statement like Mr. Ward’s.
Said the Labor “rebel,” a journalist:
Mr. Ward’s visit to England must have
been very brief indeed or he would never
have committed himself to such an
ignorant, shallow generalisation. The general
tendency is, in fact, exactly opposite to
what he suggests.
“Ignorant” and “shallow” is right as to
the “generalisation.” Mean, shabby,
venomous and low are terms equally
appropriate to the matter and manner of
the performance, considered as an expres-
I sion of Australian conviction and senti-
! ment respecting the state of Britain. It
is not that, of course, being merely the
latest excess of a stunted political mind
cancered with hate which periodically
blackens the pages of Hansard with
J insults to Britain and Britons ; but it will
, be taken for that abroad, and so will do
i Australia harm. And Australian stocks,
very high at the end of the war, thanks
to universal recognition of the prowess
of our servicemen, have slumped heavily
even in the few months since Mr. Makin
blithered in the U.S.A. that the world
had fallen into the habit of looking to
Australia (i.e., his “Government”) for
leadership.
The extent of the slump is indicated by
the American withdrawal from Manus in
a huff, because, as the Melbourne
“Herald” puts it, “Australia” ( i.e the
“Government”) “missed the bus,” and
by the cold British, Canadian and South
African responses to Dr. Evatt’s proposal
for pre-Jap-treaty palavers at Canberra.
It is evident in the abrupt dismissal of
“Australian” objections to another Jap
whaling cruise to tha Antarctic, and dis-
cernible in the U.S. wool-tax measure,
now through Congress and awaiting
the President’s signature or veto. Here
there might have been a chance for
a friendly arrangement had Australia’s
interests been placed in the hands of the
leaders of the wool industry, authorised
to come to terms with their opposite
numbers in the U.S.A. in recognition of
the fact that there will be Congressional
and Presidential elections next year, and
that neither party will do anything to
antagonise the woolgrowing States. But
that is not “Labor’s” way, nor in other
matters is “Labor” keen on employing
service leaders, though they are men of
ability who get along famously with their
counterparts overseas and can take care
of themselves in any company. “Labor”
prefers to place Australian interests in
the hands of a swarm of raw politicians
and theorists, all flourishing big sticks
made of tissue paper in pursuit of the
wili-of-the-wisp of “world leadership,”
now no longer even a will-of-the-wisp.
Most of the politicians —all branded
“Labor” —have figured at 1.L.0. con-
ferences, of which there are seven or eight
a year, held in remote, picturesque and
very expensive places. 1.L.0. is short for
International Labor Organisation (or
Office), a leftover from the League of
Nations. Between the wars it was a
small affair, content with an annual con-
ference at which Australia was represented
by a delegate from the trade-unions (Mr.
Curtin, on one occasion), a delegate from
the employers’ organisations and a man
from the High Commissioner’s office in
London. Instead of sharing the fate of
the League or waiting humbly to be
absorbed by U.N.0., it contrived to give
itself a grand new birth, a process ex-
pedited and otherwise assisted by
“Labor,” which saw spectacular possi-
bilities in the show.
For one thing, it occurred to some-
body at Canberra that an old 1.L.0.
resolution in favor of a 40-hour week
might be dug up and incorporated in a
treaty or something by way of getting
round the Constitution. This project had
to be abandoned, but the other spectacu-
lar or picnic possibilities remained and
have been greedily availed of. Hence the
never-ending procession of Ministers lead-
ing large parties to annual conferences
(Mr. Ward was accompanied by Mrs.
Ward, Senator Amour, two “advisers,”
a secretary and a and on aimer
“Labor” politicians speeding to “special”
conferences, with A.C.T.U. gentlemen
and employers among the outfits and
Communists not objected to. The cost of
these pilgrimages has never been reckoned
even in round numbers, much less
detailed; but these incomplete figures
appeared in the last Commonwealth esti-
mates: —
1946-47. 1945-46.
League and 1.L.0. contri-
bution .. £102,701
1.L.0. Conferences —Represen-
tation £32,000 £19,233
LL.O.—Contribution .. .. 41,300
Representation at Conferences
Abroad 10,000
World Trade and Employ-
ment Conference .. .. 30,000
All this for a concern which is just an
empty sound and name ; and all in addi-
tion to massive expenditure on U.N.0.,
for which £267,000 was voted last year
though a great deal more must have been
spent.
Australian wage-payers’ organisations
should long ago have withdrawn from
the 1.L.0. racket. They, if anyone,
should realise that it is an outrage on
the Australian taxpayer, of whose burdens
they justly complain, and that while they
subscribe to the racket they cannot dis-
sociate themselves from the attacks on
Britain with which the 1.L.0. circus has
become identified —for Mr. Ward’s was
not the first, though the worst.
U.S. Offer to Europe.
With his commencement speech at Har-
vard on June 5 General Marshall started
something. The background to his words
was brought out by commentaries from
the State Department in the following
days, and the features of that background
may be summarised thus:
Russian power politics in Hungary, and
in general all along the Danube, are causing
in United States official quarters the gravest
misgivings about the prospects for a Four-
Power agreement either on the question of
Germany when the Foreign Ministers’
Council meets in November or on any
scheme for restoring European economy as
a whole.
The experience of the British loan, which
is being rapidly diminished, has convinced
Washington that the value of any individual
loans to European countries will be severely
discounted by the failure of Europe to
achieve any general recovery. Washington
also fears that a slump in home prices,
now threatening, may be precipitated by the
dollar scarcity in Europe.
America is committed to political inter-
vention in Europe, all along the line from
Greece to Germany, and is disturbed to find
that this may involve her in unlimited
financial responsibility if her diplomatic
policy is not to be defeated —especially in
face of the Russian challenge.
It is in this light that General Marshall’s
Harvard statement must be read. Ob-
viously it was most carefully composed,
and it was intended to give the Soviet no
handle for protest or complaint—though,
in the event, Moscow interpreted it with-
out delay as politically offensive.
General Marshall said;
It is already evident that before the
United Slates Government can proceed
much further to alleviate the situation and
help to start the European world on the
way to recovery, there must be some agree-
ment among the countries of Europe as to
the requirements of the situation and the
part those countries themselves will take in
order to give proper effect to whatever
action might be taken by this Government.
It would be neither fitting nor efficacious
for this Government to draw up unilaterally
a programme designed to place Europe on
its feet economically. This is the business
of Europeans. The role of the United
States should consist of friendly aid in
drafting a European programme as far as
it may be practicable to do so. The agree-
ment should be a joint one, agreed to by a
number of, if not by all, European nations.
Europe will require outside help for the
next three or four years. The remedy for
European difficulties lies in the restoring of
the confidence of its peoples in the
economic future of their countries and of
all Europe. American assistance should not
be doled out as various crises develop.
For a week after General Marshall’s
announcement the reaction in Britain
was curiously mild. Though the Foreign
Office' conventionally welcomed the
speech, it pointed out that Britain was
already pursuing trade negotiations with
Russia,
Determined to make himself under-
stood, General Marshall, through his
department, issued another statement
declaring that “if Western Europe can-
not by consent and collaboration with
this country reach a political and eco-
nomic agreement, then the westerly
march of the Soviet Union will succeed,
and the effectiveness of U.N.O. will be
reduced to a shadow.” This was followed
two days later by his published approval,
in a letter to the Republican leader,
Senator Vandenberg, of a resolution
sponsored by Democrat Senators Full-
bright and Elbert Thomas, proposing the
formation of a Llnited States of Europe
within the framework of U.N.O. Next
day, at a press conference, General Mar-
shall said that his four-year plan for
Europe “was linked with the political, as
distinct from the economic, future” of
that continent. He added that “Mr.
Churchill’s scheme for a United States
of Europe” had “influenced” him.
Forthwith British official interest
awoke with a start, and Mr, Bevin
hurriedly packed his bag for Paris to
confer with M. Bidault. The Dutch-
Belgian-Luxembourg union announced
that it had “completed consultations” on
the American project. “Pravda” in Mos-
cow hit conciliation to leg with the im-
pudent comment that “the plan is de-
signed for interference in the affairs of
other countries,” and its dutiful Com-
munist satellite press in Paris called it “a
bait for constitution of a Western bloc.”
In point of fact, proposals for a
European political federation, or an eco-
nomic federation, or both, are neither
new nor of American origin. They have
taken some hold upon American politi-
cal opinion since the arrival there in
1938 of Count Coudenhove-Kalergi, a
refugee from Vienna. The Count began
his campaign in 1923, with the publica-
tion in Vienna of his book Pan-Europa,
in which he revived much earlier projects
in a modernised argument for a United
States of Europe. “History,” he wrote,
“gives Europe the following alternative:
either to overcome all national hostilities
and consolidate in a federal union or
sooner or later to succumb to a Russian
conquest.” He is being saluted today, 25
years afterwards, as singularly prescient.
The story of the various proposals
aired since the end of World War I has
been recounted by a writer in the April
issue of the monthly review published
from London by the Royal Institute
for International Affairs. During the
years between the wars Count Couden-
hove-Kalergi’s campaign inspired several
pan-European conferences convened to
work out details for economic co-opera-
tion. The Count attended the Paris Peace
Conference in 1946 as an observer, and
Mr. Churchill, in his Zurich speech in
September of last year, referred to him
as the principal sponsor for the Pan-
European project.
When, during the ’twenties, M. Briand
proposed to the League sessions in Sep-
tember, 1929, a United States of Europe
linked by “some kind of a federal
bond... .primarily economic,” the British
reaction was lukewarm, not to say
discouraging. The United States was not
a member of the League, and London
believed that the scheme would arouse
American hostility. The ex-enemy coun-
tries treated it chiefly as a means of
furthering their claims to equality
with the victors of 1918. Only Poland
and the Balkan countries of the Little
Entente hailed it enthusiastically. But
generally the verdict was that, since
Britain had turned it down, there was not
much value in the “Briand plan,” and
the interest in it gradually expired.
The next effort was begun from the
economic side, when in 1937, through
the League, the British and French Gov-
ernments sponsored a far-reaching in-
quiry by M. Paul van Zeeland, the Bel-
gian statesman and economist, of ways
and means to liberate trade among the
European countries. His report in 1938
anticipated current efforts for the reduc-
tion of tariffs, and to his proposals for
financial reorganisation of world trad-
ing and monetary exchanges between the
nations the conference which drafted
the Bretton Woods agreements must have
been considerably indebted. M. van Zee-
land’s plan was pigeon-holed with the
onset of Hitler’s war in 1939.
His own country, however, has made
a practical advance upon the road he laid
out in the founding of the Customs
Union for Belgium, Holland and Luxem-
burg—the “Benelux Union” —devised in
1943 and 1944. A new common customs
tariff for these countries will come into
force on November 1 next, and six com-
missions have been set up to integrate
among them a closer economic union in
many other directions.
Meanwhile, on the political side, the
earlier vision of Count Coudenhove-
Kalergi has been vindicated with re-
markable completeness. British political
leaders * were aroused to sharp attention
by General Smuts’ recipe for the salva-
tion of Europe, given in his address be-
fore the Empire Parliamentary Associa-
tion in London in November, 1943.
“With a Russian colossus bestriding the
Continent,” he urged that an exhausted
Britain should strengthen her position
through closer union with the Western
European democracies. Thus was the
question of a, “Western bloc” hoisted into
the post-war political debate. Moscow
has identified Mr. Churchill with it be-
cause Mr. Churchill has, since he left
office, become chairman of the United
Europe Committee in Britain and a lead-
ing advocate of European federation. His
speeches at Brussels in December, 1945,
at The Hague in the following May and
at Zurich last September were all in sup-
port of the movement, but essentially as a
continental one excluding Britain.
Then, in January last, from Mr.
Churchill’s United Europe Committee
came an announcement which went much
further by accepting the argument that
“Britain is part of Europe and must make
her full contribution to European unity.”
Thus is the controversy of Briand’s day
restored to the platform with the ripen-
ing conviction that Britain, in spite of ties
with the British Commonwealth beyond
the seas, which have hitherto restrained*
her, should be included within the
United States of Europe.
In Western Europe the “Western bloc”
plan has been received with a hesitation
that has paid ample acknowledgment to
Russian disapproval. Nevertheless, it is
slowly and inevitably growing into place
as the only policy offering a hope of re-
covery —at least in the economic sphere.
The Anglo-American agreement for a
merger of the western zones in Germany
is one sign ; the insistence by General
Marshall upon the erection of some com-
mon European authority to accept
responsibility for proper employment of
American financial assistance is another.
That Russia stands outside U.N.R.R.A.’s
successors, outside the World Monetary
Bank and outside the international trade
convention indicates the tendency of the
free democracies to go ahead in inter-
national organisation without the Soviet.
Russia is currently being offered by
Britain and France an opportunity to
come into the scheme proposed for a
united Europe. If Moscow refuses, the
organisation of a Western union would,
on present signs, seem to be an inevi-
table consequence.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Between Two Stools.
As M.L.A. for Yass in the McKell time,
W. F. Sheahan had a fair bit to say
about the maddening delay in soldier-
settlement. Himself a 1914-18 Digger
and. from a land family in the Gundagai
district, he could scarcely have been sur-
prised when, with Mr. McKell elevated
to Yarralumla and Mr. McGirr to the
Premiership, he found himself N.S.W.
Minister of Lands, and as such called
upon to show what he could do with
regard to soldier-settlement. ,
He can be credited with accepting the
challenge with enthusiasm; and already
he is showing energy very different from
that simulated by the departed Tully.
Whether his enthusiasm and energy can
overcome the stodgy birds who run the
Commonwealth side of soldier-settlement
is another matter. He was moved to
complain to an A.L.P. “country” confer-
ence —in Sydney, of course —that the only
way to solve the “deadlock” was to give
him, as Minister, the power to decide
when State and Commonwealth officials
failed to agree on soldier land matters.
As a mournful example of the torpid-
ness of soldier-settlement, Mr. Sheahan
said that when he had a look round
he found that only 127 of 12,212 approved
soldier-settlers in N.S.W. had been
accommodated, 82 of them on land ac-
quired by the State Government. A few
days later Mr. Sheahan saw further evi-
dence when 1532 ex-servicemen took part
in a ballot at Gundagai for thirteen
blocks of two estates in the district.
Many of them had been in other ballots,
and 1519 would have to seek land else-
where.
A main cause of the hold-up every-
where is CommOnwealth-State failure to
agree on valuations of acquired proper-
ties, though there are other causes, not
the least of them disagreement on what
constitutes a living area. On the first
question Mr. Sheahan has a. constructive
suggestion: where there is Common-
wealth-State disagreement on the price of
the land, settlers should be allowed to
take up the blocks and get to work on
them while officials do the haggling. An
attractive aspect of this, for the Digger-
settler, would be that, Government
officials being what they are, he might
never have to worry about the original
cost of his farm.
In the light of past experience in soldier-
settlement, there is every justification for
both a careful selection of applicants and
ensuring the successful ones a good start
on their blocks. But a tragedy is develop-
ing through the petty wrangling and
mulishness of two sets of Government
officials while helpless soldier land-seekers,
their first eager hopes dead and their
patience —and savings—wearing thin, turn
bitterly to town occupations and are lost
to the land they fought to save.
The Glorious Dead.
“Conda” : New Guinea War Ceme-
teries have been sited in beautiful sur-
roundings at Port Moresby, Lae and
Rabaul.
I reached Lae cemetery as the sun
lifted up the veil of the morning mist.
Thirty Papuans had started their daily
mowing of the grass-covered graves. A
rectangular area about 400 yards long
and 100 yards wide has been cleared of
jungle, which, quick with life, presses
close on all sides. It is kept back by a
wire-mesh fence, which in a year or so
will be one long hedge of golden colus
bush. The head-crosses stretch, a forest
of white, in ordered array away from a
central garden of tropical flowers. Reds,
yellows, brilliant blues, intersected by
four paths of emerald green, cluster round
the base of a 50ft. white flagpole shak-
ing out its ensign over the graves of its
sons.
The cemetery is bordered by coral
paths lined with white stones, and tropical
flowers have been planted along them.
A chapel is to be built, and at one end
a 40-ton granite memorial slab will be
erected. Wooden crosses are to be re-
placed by stone. The whole is pervaded
by a restful quiet, with a backdrop of
towering mountains wreathed in high
mist.
Somewhat Tarnished.
Implementing a “Golden Age” or a
socialist theory is one thing; getting the
people to accept it is another.
In the Golden Age (now abandoned,
as Mr. Menzies says) everybody was to
have plain living, if not high thinking—
or everybody except politicians, lottery-
winners, bookmakers, publicans and so
forth —plus “social security,” based on
sky-high taxation. This hit the very
people for whose benefit it was designed,
and, like the middle-class and the
farmers, though in ways much more dis-
concerting to the projectors of the
Golden Age, they objected.
Thus thousands of labor-unionists see
to it that their weekly wage never exceeds
a sum that will lift them into a higher
tax-group. They absent themselves from
work and go on strike for weeks at a
time, knowing the effect of loss of time
on their yearly income and their tax pay-
ments. And for them there are easy
ways to earn tax-free money.
Coalminers work four days a week and
spend two days fishing or rabbiting, or
run a taxi or an s.-p. joint, or grow vege-
tables —good money in all of them, and
not to be accounted for to the tax man.
Building tradesmen do the same, putting
in their “off” time on renovations and
small building jobs all over the place.
They are apt to earn as much for a week-
end as for ?i week, the week-end money
being tax-free. And so it goes on all
along the line. It is production of a sort,
but a poor substitute for what the nation
needs; and lacking that sort of produc-
tion the nation fails to go forward.
But the Chifleys still refuse to admit
that it isn’t human nature to work with-
out an incentive and that the greatest of
all incentives is profit. Nor will they ad-
mit that the notion of everybody depend-
ing upon the Government for the means
NEW JUDGMENT OF PARIS.
“Though the 1945 Occupation Survey showed a great preponderance of females ‘aged
14 and over,’ especially in the cities, Mr. Calwell has formed the quaint idea that there
is a fatal shortage of ‘young women of marriageable age,’ and has gone abroad to get them,
as well as male Britons, ‘displaced persons’ and ships.”
“Pass right along there, girls, when you get your apples!”
to live is a deadly and destructive thing.
For Socialism halts progress, as is daily
demonstrated by out-of-date and ruin-
ously insolvent Government transport
systems. Government housing schemes
and a raft of other Government activities.
What is worse, the administrators of
these Government concerns are no longer
responsible either to Parliament or
people for their “errors of judgment,” no
matter what the “errors” cost or what
inconvenience and trouble they cause.
All worth-while industrial progress has
come from free enterprise. Consider the
lately-dead Henri Van de Velde, who
came to Australia as a child and in 26
years built the £20,000 Felt and Textiles
concern into a national asset with a capi-
tal of £1,802,890 and assets of its own
worth £sx million, in the process giving
employment to thousands and opening up
new uses and markets for wool. Under
Socialism he would never have been more
than a civil servant on a gazetted salary
attending to a file.
In a Communist Prison.
In those countries of Central Europe
and the Balkans formerly bordering upon
Russia, many people may well be won-
dering what difference defeat of Hitler
has made to their lot. Here is a picture
of conditions for “political offenders” in
a Communist prison in Rumania —the
Hain prison at Pitesti.
A month ago there were over 320 such
“offenders” in this jail. They were pro-
fessors, doctors, barristers and engineers
—people of education and scientific
attainment, that is, who could not accept
what the Red Army calls civilised demo-
cracy. An appeal signed by a hundred
of their number asking for an inquiry
into their prison conditions has been re-
ceived by the Allied Control Commission
and the British Foreign Office. It states:
Death by hunger is being systematically
organised. The prison staff are tools of the
local Communist party... .We are doomed
to perish by starvation or massacre. Two
hundred and fifty-three persons have been
detained for over two months and have
now been joined by 70 more. No reason
was at first given for detention. Later the
police stated that the arrests were made for
transgressions of the penal code. The
prisoners are not allowed to communicate
with relatives and are grouped six to a
cell intended for one person. Water for
the whole prison comes from two taps
which are turned off except for two hours
a day. Many are suffering from hunger
oedema and no medicine is provided.
It reads like an extract from the records
of a Japanese prison camp. Russian
Judges sat on the International Tribunal
at Nuremberg which condemned as in-
famous the jailers of Nazi prison camps
which are now being reproduced in
facsimile behind the Iron Curtain.
When the Soviet Government form-
ally adhered to the Atlantic Charter it
solemnly pledged itself, along with the
original signatories, to implement it, “con-
vinced that complete victory over their
enemies is essential to defend life, liberty,
independence, and religious freedom, and
to preserve human rights and justice in
their own lands as well as in other lands.”
At Teheran in December, 1943, the tide
having turned, Stalin, along with Roose-
velt and Churchill, signed the great de-
claration “to all nations, large and small,
whose peoples in heart and mind are
dedicated, as are our people, to the elimi-
nation of tyranny and slavery, oppres-
sion and intolerance,” and promised
them, in return for their contribution to
victory, a day when they “may live free
lives untouched by tyranny, and accord-
ing to their varying desires and their own
consciences.”
Today in every one of those small
countries under Russian control, a citizen
must yield to the Communist minority or
risk being arraigned as a traitor before
“a People’s” (i.e., a Communist) “Court.”
It is Hitler’s tyranny over again with
Oriental perfidy added, only the instru-
ments being changed.
Union Squabbles.
Latest aspirant for the position of Dic-
tator of Australian Industry, disputed by
Thornton, Elliott, Brown and other Com-
munists, is a Mr. Lane, secretary of the
Federated Engine-Drivers and Firemen.
His union has been hunting the headlines.
At Bunnerong (Sydney) powerhouse,
where threats of strikes are almost as
common as breakdowns in the supply of
power, the F.E.D.F.A. ,is seldom far
away when the threats are made. The
most recent concerned one of its members
who had been disrated after a boiler-
failure, for which a County Council in-
quiry had considered him partly respon-
sible. Factory inspectors took a differ-
ent view and the man was later reinstated,
but in the meantime Lane had come out
with a threat to pull his men out of
Bunnerong and tie the„ place up, regard-
less of the chaos such action would cause
in homes and industry dependent on the
powerhouse.
While the squabble was still going on
the F.E.D.F.A. grabbed the headlines
again with another threat based on a sup-
posed grievance with even less to justify
it than the Bunnerong incident. This
trouble goes back nearly six months
when nine fork-lift drivers employed by
Austral Bronze Co. went on strike over a
dispute on margin payments and brought
loSs of employment to 600 fellow-em-
ployees, When a settlement was arrived
at early this month and work was re-
sumed 12 members of the F.E.D.F.A.,
who held key positions, did not report
for duty, which meant further loss of
employment for hundreds of other men
in the works.
Last week Comrade Lane stated that
his members were not on strike, but that
they would not return to work until the
fork-lift drivers, who were Federated
Ironworkers, joined his union. In other
words, for a petty squabble as to whether
his union or another should own—for
union leaders of the Lane brand virtually
own their members today—a.handful of
men, he was prepared to see hundreds of
fellow-unionists out of work and much-
needed production held up.
At the same time the F.E.D.F.A.
pointed the strike gun at another factory,
that of Dunlop Rubber, threatening to
tie it up, too, by withdrawing key men
unless fork-lift drivers came into the Lane
fold. Things began to happen then. The
firm temporarily withdrew fork-lifts from
use and the Disputes Committee of the
Sydney Labor Council decided that if the
inter-union argument continued it would
instruct unionists to fill the jobs left
vacant by unauthorised strikers. Lane
blustered:
Had the company not withdrawn these
machines from use one of the greatest in-
dustrial upheavals ever witnessed in N.S.W.
would have taken place.
Thfc witnesses, of course, would have
been the public, the ultimate sufferers in
any strike.
He continued:
If the Labor Council had carried out its
threat to supply what I call “scab” labor,
the F.E.D.F.A. would have first cut the
supply of electricity to the whole of Syd-
ney by withdrawing its key men from the
powerhouses. If the council could have
supplied men to take their place we would
then have taken action to cut off the whole
of the coal production of the State.
These are threats and boasts that could
never be carried out in a sane community,
but thfe power of the word “scab” has
become so great in Australia that it has
become a commonplace thing to see whole
sections of industry tied up at the whim
of a few malcontents drunk with power.
On this occasion the Labor Council’s
reply was to confirm the action of the
Disputes Committee and to pass a long-
winded resolution directing that no union
should cause or take part in a stoppage as
a result of a demarcation dispute until the
Council Disputes Committee had made
a decision on the matter. The Com-
munist-controlled Miners’ Federation was
quick to announce that it would not be
bound by the decision and Comrade Lane
suggested that members of the Council
had their eye on “plums” in the form of
Conciliation Commission jobs. The
Council’s resolution contained 208 words.
If past history is any guide, it contained
nothing else.
The Toll of the Roods.
From “Pawang”:
Melbourne was the scene of a conference on
road safety. To it came officials from all
parts of Australia. There followed immediatel>
one of the worst week-ends in Victoria’s de-
plorable history of road accidents: five killed
and 80 injured, 60 of whom had to receive
hospital treatment. Now Premier Cain intends
to appoint a board or a commission to inquire
into causes and threatens greater penalties for
transgressors against the traffic rules and regu-
lations.
The vast majority of motorists are careful
people. It is only the reactionary few who are
indifferent; but the same applies to pedestrians.
Reactionary individuals are impervious to
propaganda. All they can do is to react against
it, like the person whose reaction to the most
elaborate system of traffic lights is to jaywalk
more than ever. Then you have to take into
account the extraordinary confidence people
have in all forms of mechanical transport.
They will walk across a street in front
of a car at an intersection regardless of
the fact that the person at the wheel may be
a mug, a drunk or a neurasthenic and the vehicle
an old one with worn-out brakes or accelerators
that stick down.
The War-time generation is another factor.
It grew up during a period when thousands
of cars were taken off the roads, and when
children rode scooters on them and the clop-
clop of horses’ hooves was the only sound
that broke the rural silence. A lot of people
would have liked that halcyon state to continue.
Better roads, faster cars and a 50 per cent,
increase in traffic since 1939 have produced a
new age to which the population has to be
reconditioned.
Speed is the modern fetish. The Lud Mayor
of Melbourne has painted an appreciative pic-
ture of the businessman breakfasting in Hobart
and lunching in Melbourne, conducting his
business and having his dinner back in Hobart.
More adventurous people have a similar vision
with regard to Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide
and London. There is a lovely road from
Ferntree Gully to Gembrook, and beyond m
the Dandenongs, but now it is proposed to
build, at an enormous cost, a railway so that
people can ride there in half an hour instead
of walking. There is a road from Mel-
bourne to Sydney so perfect that any idiot can
travel from one place to the other at 60 m.p.h.
or even 90 m.p.h. and scarcely ever need to
slacken.
It takes years for a person to learn to
ride a horse well. Some never learn, and
only a few ever get the skill to sit a buck-
jumper. But a girl can learn to drive a high-
powered car with a 100 m.p.h. potential in
a fortnight.


m
i
CRAVENA
—for your /
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20’s
m-
w
CARRERAS LTD - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Calwell has added himself to the num-
ber of globetrotting Ministers, members
and officials —when last heard from two
parties were in Geneva —so the worst is
now feared. The politician after whom a
Tel-Aviv street was named boarded his
’plane in a temper, having blackguarded
Queensland’s soldier-Governor for mildly
saying at Bundaberg, apropos of the plan
for robbing Britain of masses of its
workers, that Britain needed them all and
Australia needed a prosperous Britain.
“If Sir John Lavarack wants to talk on
migration matters in a controversial
way,” Calwell bellowed, “let him relin-
quish his present post and contest a
Federal seat.”
Governors must maintain the high
tradition of their office and keep aloof
from political controversy.
This from a member of the “Govern-
ment” that appointed an exploded
“Labor” Premier to succeed the King’s
brother and let him barge into a party
brawl as Governor-General-elect!
Queensland’s soldier-son and -Governor
disdained to reply to the ill-conditioned
Calwell; but Menzies promptly delivered
the just retort. “It is pleasing to learn,”
he said, “of this new-found desire on
the part of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to keep the vice-regal office com-
pletely detached from politics.”
Dr. Evatt, in his latest (June 6) report
on foreign affairs —undebated, according
to custom:
On April 23 advice was received that
General MacArthur was contemplating a
further Japanese whaling expedition to the
Antarctic The Australian Embassy,
Washington, was instructed to inform the
State Department that Australia strongly
opposed any further Japanese whaling ex-
peditions to the Antarctic and that the
future of the Japanese whaling industry
was a matter to be settled at the peace
conference.... The head of the Australian
Mission in Japan was instructed to inform
the S.C.A.P. that any proposal to permit
Japanese whaling in the Antarctic would
be strongly opposed.
Sequel, conveyed in a message from
Tokyo:—
“Pursuant to instructions from the United
States Government,” a second Jap-manned
whaling expedition has been authorised
to go to the Antarctic “Not to use
Japanese whaling utilities at this moment
of need,” General MacArthur said, “would
mean a direct cost to the United States
of more than ten million dollars.”
Eighteen months ago it was “roses,
roses all the way” for Our Foreign
Policy. Now it’s “ ‘coolers,’ ‘coolers,’ all
the way.”
Wheat stabilisation is in the air again.
A ten-year plan worked out by growers’
organisations and supported by State
Governments, with a first payment of
ss. 2d. a bushel and the 1945-46 crop
excluded, has been put up to Canberra.
Pollard, Scully’s successor, won’t have a
bar of it, and Chifley says “no alteration
to existing Commonwealth proposals is
likely.” Meantime all growers are fol-
lowing the High Court case in which the
Court is asked to declare the Scully
scheme invalid, or, alternatively, that
plaintiffs were underpaid for 1945-46
wheat.
Belatedly “Labor” politicians are be-
ginning to wake up to things that have
been evident for years to others. Chifley
has been moved to describe strikers over
domestic union squabbles as comic-opera
affairs and Kenny, of the N.S.W. Labor
Council, has repeated the remark. Un-
fortunately the comedy in these things
has worn so thin that it can only be
seen from the lofty heights of Canberra
or the Trades Hall.
Supporters in his electorate recently
made a presentation to Claude Matthews,
the N.S.W. Minister for Building
Materials. Claude must be wondering
whether there is any particular signifi-
cance in the form the gift took —a travel-
ling case.
Ben Hecht, poison-pen cheer-leader of
Jewish terrorism, speaking: “What did
the British Navy ever do in the war but
run away?” Come to think of it what
did Ben Hecht ever do in any war?
Just one example of what goes on
between Commonwealth and States on
soldier-settlement:
Right at Marulan (N.S.W.) is Glenrock,
a nice wool and fattening property. Offered
the lot for soldier-settlement, the Sydney
Government accepted about 5700. acres and
sub-divided it into three blocks of 1900,
1700 and 2100 acres. Canberra rejected this
plan and recommended subdivision into
two blocks. There the thing is stuck, while
the trustee of the estate wishes he’d never
offered it, each side waits for the other to
give in and no soldier will get a block
there until one or the other does give in.
Multiply that 10 or 20 times all over
Australia and you know why landless
soldiers eat out their hearts in idleness.
The hold-up over the Glenrock sub-
division explains, in part, why, as N.S.W.
Lands Minister Sheahan complained re-
cently, “Landholders are not offering land
for the use of returned soldiers as readily
as I would like,” Who wants to see
good land lie idle while two sets of
officials wrangle over subdivision, values
and other things?
As if enough hadn’t been wasted in
shipbuilding and shipping management
during the war and the “transition
period,” “Labor’s” Shipping Board is
ordering nine 200-ton diesel-engined
vessels for the inter-island trade around
New Guinea. Ward placed the order and
“the new vessels,” it is announced, “will
bring the fleet up to 22.” Meanwhile
Burns Philp has added to its already ex-
tensive interests in mainland retail stores
—at Parramatta this time. Copra doesn’t
grow at nor do island ships ply to
Parramatta.
June 4 was the first anniversary of the
opening of the war criminals’ trials in
Tokyo. The official court record already
comprises 24,000 quarto pages and the
50,000 th page may be reached before
the Powers can get their plans in train
for staging the peace conference. Both
prosecuting and defence counsel expect
the trials to last “at least another 12
months.”
Very belatedly, the Sydney Labor
Council decided make war on “inter-
union disputes which cause strikes,” even
to the extent of directing “strike-break-
ing” gangs to take up work thus deserted.
The decision coincided with an an-
nouncement from Canberra that “several
hundreds of applications” have been re-
ceived for 15 new appointments as “con-
ciliation commissioners” at £l5OO a year.
“Macnell,” from Manus:
The Americans are pulling out and the
island is rapidly returning to its pre-war
obscurity. Out of a complement of 32,000 men
and a sizable portion of the U.S. Fleet at the
height of the war, 900 remain, and all naval
personnel are scheduled to leave by July 1.
They will leave behind them 45,000 Quonset
sheds spread along the foreshore and climbing
over the hills, all the vast impedimenta of war’s
aftermath —as empty as a drum; plus six long
piers and hundreds of miles of sound coral
roads, one running for 103 miles from end to
end of the island. Of the vast bomber fleets
which three airstrips handled there remain five
Flying Fortresses. Most of the sheds, and the
dilapidated vehicles stored therein, are marked
“For China.’’ Even the soft-drinks plant has
been dismantled and set up in Guam —and
when the Yanks shift their Coca-Cola they
mean to evacuate.
A so-called Burmese Constituent
Assembly has declared Burma “an inde-
pendent sovereign republic,” independ-
ence to be consummated “within a year.”
Before the end of the year the interest-
ing and influential Burmese lady may be
heard from. It may then be a case —as
it was in 1942 —of “Come you back, you
British soldier; come you back to Man-
dalay!”
President Truman has vetoed a tax-
reduction bill, and the House failed to
override his veto, though the majority
was only two votes short of the neces-
sary two-thirds. From incomes up to
$lO,OOO Uncle Sam takes very much less
than is taken in Britain and Australia.
Where there are four in a family British
tax on $lO,OOO is the equivalent of
$3497 ; American tax is $lBlO.
Back in Geneva after 72 hours or so in
Britain Ward professed himself “shocked
at the poverty and low standard of liv-
ing in many parts of the country”;
I am astounded that after so many years
of Britain’s world ascendancy conditions
should be so bad.
Were they the best in the world this
England-hating demagogue with the
Sydney-larrikin mentality would have
made the same report.
Ward “would like to discuss with Russia
its reasons for not sending delegates to
1.L.0.” Russia’s “reasons” don’t matter,
but employers’ organisations in Australia
should long ago have found reasons for
not sending delegates to a show which
does nothing in particular and does it
rather badly. As far as this country is
concerned, its only recognisable purpose
is to provide a horde of “Labor” poli-
ticians with excuses for overseas trips,
the Australian taxpayer footing all bills.
Joel Moses Gabb, a South Australian
M.H.R. for many years, was drawn out
of his retirement by a Billy Hughes vaunt
about the 1920 salary grab. Gabb was
then Labor member for Angas, and
when he voiced anti-grab sentiments in
Caucus Bill Mahony and others told him
not to be a fool; “You take the money;
the silly blighters outside will forget in
six months.” Billy’s version, presented
in “justification” of the 1947 grab, was
that all “or practically all” those who in
1920 awarded themselves another £4OO a
year were returned in 1922, and “every-
one who voted against the increase was
cast out.” Nonsense, says Gabb:
Blundell, Catts, Considine, Fleming, Hay,
Higgs, Lamond, Lavelle, Nicholls, Poynton,
Rodgers, Laird Smith, Wise and Storey,
who voted for the salary increase, were 1 '
defeated in 1922. Of the opponents (16)
only Bell, Best and McWilliams were de-
feated and Weinholt retired.
Bell and McWilliams came back at sub-
sequent elections; Best, a very old man,
never stood again. Gabb doubts whether
the electors will be kind to Chambers,
Sheehy and Russell. He suggests that if
these worthies “look up the history of
Adelaide, Boothby and Grey they will
find electors sometimes remember.”
Nine weeks after the general election
for the Westralian Assembly there was a
by-election, Willmott, the Liberal for
Sussex, having died after being returned
with the greatest majority ever registered
in the electorate. An Old Digger who lost
a leg in France, he has been succeeded by
W. S. Bovell, born in the electorate 41
years ago. There were three candidates,
all Liberals and all ex-servicemen ; Bovell
got the party support and nearly two-
thirds of the votes.
“S. M. Herald” in a spasm of out-
raged virtue:
The gambling urge permeates community
life, and tends to discolor the whole Aus-
tralian outlook and approach. Any Gov-
ernment action which must inevitably stimu-
late it therefore deserves strong condem-
nation.
Splendid, considering that the stern
moralist had in that issue and three pre-
vious issues about 60 columns of racing
stuff, including two s.-p. supplements.
June 24 was a memorable day for
Joseph Cook. On June 24, 1913, he was
sworn in as Prime Minister, with John
Forrest (the centenary of whose birth is
soon tb be commemorated in Westralia)
as Treasurer and No. 2. Joseph weathered
a stormy Parliament for two sessions,
closing it on June 26, 1914. Then things
happened with a rush: double dissolu-
tion, July 30; outbreak of first German
War, August 4; defeat at the polls,
September 5 ; resignation, September 17.
Joe was second to Hughes in the Cabinet
and at Versailles before resigning his
portfolio and seat (Parramatta) on
November 11, 1921, and going to London
as High Commissioner —till May IC,
1929.
As soon as Queensland “Labor” heard
that the Sydney A.L.P. was in favor of
more power for Canberra it put up a
“spokesman” to announce that it would
seek a return of power to the State. And
a “Courier-Mail” man found a “senior
Cabinet Minister” who said that Queens-
land “Labor” members would “support
the people.” A nasty reference to
Queensland voting on the Evatt refer-
endums.
Victorian “Labor” housing authorities
are in the forecasting business once more
over the Beaufort pre-fabs, as they were
two years ago when the first specimen
was erected in the Fitzroy Gardens, Mel-
bourne. Beauforts to the number of
5500 have been “ordered,” in addition to
5000 already promised, and the cost will
be kept down to £lO5O or £ll5O by
means of a Federal subsidy of £1,000,000.
State Housing Minister Barry promises
15,000 houses this year. Knowing some-
thing of coal shortages, restricted cement
production, effects of the long metal-
trades dispute and the dearth of supplies
of builders’ hardware and everything
else, the building industry stigmatises the
prediction as “fantastic nonsense.”
Prefab, materials are being transported
to Victorian country towns for the ac-
commodation of the new horde of Com-
monwealth Bank officials. Builders esti-
mate that each unit contains enough
flooring, cement, weatherboard, fibrous
plaster, glass and lavatory fittings to
build a comfortable cottage for a family
of five. Asked why the bank refused to
give details of the number of prefabs
ordered, an official retorted: “We are
getting enough publicity as it is.” “We”
will get a lot more before councils and
the like lie down under “Labor’s” felon
attack on local government—if they ever
do.
According to a statement made in Mel-
bourne by M.L.’s Food and Rationing
Controller, his Dominion is able to spare
Britain an extra 1000 tons of butter p.a.
by virtue of its ban on cream, supplies
being restricted to invalids. Anybody
can get cream in Melbourne, though
dairymen themselves want the ban re-
imposed, saying it would mean seven
times the Maoriland addition of butter.
Sarcastic old H. P. Colebatch, who has
a unique record in Westralian public
life —the one Premier from the Upper
House, Agent-General, Senator, Agent-
General again and M.L.C. again—has
come out with a characteristic comment
on the “decision of Caucus practically to
double the number of members of both
Houses”:
Listeners-in to Parliamentary debates may
be able to form their own opinion whether
such action is likely to make for a better
Parliament.
To Colebatch a Senate with 60 members
all of one party —“and that might happen
if the present method of election is per-
sisted in” —would “scarcely be worth
what it would cost in salaries.” He
allows that with annual elections of five
Senators on a P.R. basis “the Senate
might be restored to something like the
position of authority and usefulness in-
tended for it by the framers of the Con-
stitution.”
The slipstream from the propellers of
passenger aircraft is blowing coldly on
the finances of the N.S.W. Government
railways, and Mr. Hartigan is mightily
“concerned.” He wants to increase fares
and freight rates, and hasn’t given up his
dream of railway-run passenger aircraft.
The trouble is that so many people have
given up Hartigan’s steam tortoises.
A Sydney man, finding it necessary to
make a 250-mile journey to a town on a
branch railway line, applied for extra
petrol tickets and was met with the ques-
tion “Can’t you go by train?” “Have
you ever travelled on a N.S.W. train?”
he countered. Petrol tickets forthcoming.


RECESSION PROBLEM.
“I don’t seem to be getting any nearer.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Uco”; Melbourne’s Lord Mayor has
been commenting on the thousands who,
on Sundays and public holidays, wander
aimlessly around his city window-gazing
and otherwise killing time. Sydney streets
on off days are another example of this
seeming inability of city folk to keep away
from the city even when they have got
no real reason for going there. On the
King’s Birthday holiday duty took me
into town, but most of the people 1 saw
roaming the streets were obviously there
of their owii accord and had plenty of
time to kill. In their twos and threes,
or in small family parties, they wandered
about, looking in windows. They didn’t
seem to be going anywhere; those bound
to or from ferry or train en route pic-
tures, beach or zoo could easily be dis-
tinguished by their hurried gait and a
certain air of expectation in their faces,
but the real city wanderers were slow of
pace and wore, even the young couples,
a glazed, listless look. A burnt-out build-
ing in Lower George-street was a god-
send to them ; hundreds of them stood
staring at it open-mouthed every time I
passed that way. To me Sydney, or any
city, is a place to be avoided at week-
ends and on holidays, but it seems to
have a magic lure for thousands.
* * * *
“Zake”: It had to come. Every so
often those sweet fellows who evolve new
hair-dos for women have a competition
to see who can make their models look
< the most freakish, and now the hackers
of the masculine mane are having a
championship of their own. Technical
skill, correct tapering and suitability of
the haircut to the model are the chief
points. The scope isn’t wide enough. It
should include ability to tip the most
losers in a given time, keep up a running
fire of comment on the model’s fast-
thinning thatch and the advantages of
having a singe and shampoo, and ability
to bore customers with the dangers
of dandruff, with extra points for
being able to give a clip in such a
way that hair will be sprouting over the
ears again within a week. Oh, I forgot
—special prize for the one who can finish
a haircut with most of the customers’
own coconut fibre inside his collar. If
the bloke who operates on my skull
entered he’d be a soda.
“Bozo”: Sadly in need of about 40
roofing tiles to complete additions to my
home I had just given up hope when a
casual acquaintance told me he knew
someone who might be able to help. 1
arranged to go out to his place the fol-
lowing Sunday with half a dozen bottles
of beer, when he would take me to see
his contact. I got the beer and was
taken to the man in the know. He mel-
lowed under the influence and thought
he might be able to do something that
very morning, so off we set in the car,
Following directions I weaved through
Various streets and lanes, and every now
and then I was told to slow down. My
two friends would lean forward and peer
intensely, then tell me, “0.K., go on.”
At last they yelled “Pull up.” We were
outside a house with a roof half-tiled
and my passengers peered cautiously up
and down the street. “There’s your tiles,”
they said, pointing to a pile next to the
building, “grab what you want and bung
’em in the boot —there’s no one about
this time’ of the morning.” I am still
desperately in need of tiles, but not quite
so desperately as that.
* * ♦
“Viz”; Can’t follow the argument that
push-button warfare will make it un-
necessary to take large numbers into the
services. There will have to be someone
actually pushing the button, and he’ll have
to wear uniform, live in barracks, eat in
the mess, and draw pay and allowances.
So we’ll obviously need equipment, bar-
racks, messing and finance sections to look
after the immediate requirements of the
button-pusher, quite apart from per-
sonnel, welfare, amenities and rehabili-
tation staffs. All these people will need
guards, clerks, signals and cipher sections
to facilitate their activities, motor trans-
port drivers to take them from place to
place, and typists and filing clerks to keep
track of the masses of paper which all
this will involve. Someone is sure to
kick over the traces or fall sick, so legal
and medical officers will be essential, not
to mention disciplinary W.Os. to keep
everyone in order. Then there’ll have
to be someone to peel the spuds, pick up
the lolly papers behind the canteen, and
“Mind if I smoke ?”
polish the floor of the officers’ mess.
Can’t see that it’s going to make any
difference.
* * * *
“Bim”: That par. (B. 28/5/’47) about
the man who went to glory on a piece of
orange peel after beating Niagara in a
barrel reminds me. Pluto and Bill sur-
vived the blitz in Crete, starvation, beat-
ings and pestilence in Salonika, and
eventually escaped from a German
stalag. For a year they wandered through
occupied Europe, soldiered with par-
tisans, had many near-misses with the
Gestapo, snowdrifts and informers, were
picked up off the Dalmatian coast and
arrived in England minus nothing but
their teeth. A rehabilitated Bill, resplend-
ent in a new A.I.F. uniform, stepped
jauntily from the Q.M. store in East-
bourne, to be bowled over by an ancient
inhabitant on a rusty pushbike. But they
reckoned their closest shave was when
they fell in with a couple of pretty A.T.S.
corporals who took them through the
blackout to their barracks. Returning by
invitation next evening they couldn’t
locate the building. “Ar!” said a helpful
Bobby, “you’ll be looking for the A.T.S.
Provost H.Q.” The horrified pair bustled
away, strongly disapproving of jacks,
male or female, on duty or off.
* * * *
“Jasby”: Most of us have experienced
the horrible moment when our favorite
joke, the one that should have “set the
table in a roar,” has fallen flat, leaving
us aware of a stony silence more silent
than ever we imagined could be possible.
Such a moment came the other day to
N.S.W. Railways Commissioner Harti-
gan when he was addressing a meeting
of the Country Women’s Association.
Delegates had carried resolutions urging
better travel facilities for women and
children. Mr. Hartigan then addressed
the gathering and told them a few of
his experiences with the public. Accord-
ing to a Sydney “Morning Herald” re-
port :
After the first and second of these
anecdotes there was laughter from most of
the 600 delegates. At the end of the third
anecdote there was no laughter.
One of the ladies then asked the presi-
dent’s permission to address the Com-
missioner, and said “You have answered
none of our questions, Mr. Hartigan,
and your soft soap and smoke-oh type of
jokes don’t go down with us.” Com-
mented the “Herald”: “Mr. Hartigan
made no reply.” No wonder. There is
no possible reply when your joke falls
flat.
* * * ♦
“Shavia”: “Bymp’s” stoiy of the two
Melbourne spinsters taxi-ing to Alice
Springs (B. 4/6/’47) is a sore point with
Adelaide newspapermen at the moment.
It was a nice little story, and it kept the
boys on their toes for over a week on
the off-chance the travellers would come
this way. Correspondents at the Alice
were telegraphed for information, and
the R.A.A. touring service was all ready
with advice. Neither hide nor hair of
the ladies has been seen.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Official Government
circles in Melbourne have been rocked to
their foundations by a sumptuary prob-
lem, Never before in the history of the
State has a woman attended a King’s
Birthday Governor’s levee—restricted to
“gentlemen.” Mrs. Brownbill should have
the right of entree as member for Gee-
long, but Speaker George Knox ruled that
Mrs. B. was a “lady” and therefore in-
eligible ; Mr. J. Robertson, Sergeant-at-
Arms, held that as an M.L.A. she was
technically a gent. Mrs. 8., consulted,
said that in her electorate she attended
cricket socials and smoke-ohs as a
“gentleman,” but, as a “lady,” left early.
The Governor’s aide, appealed to, passed
the buck back to the S.-at-Arms. Mrs.
B. had already received her invitation
and, being a resolute woman, turned up,
and no doubt the Queen’s Hall shuddered
with horror at seeing the first curtsey
made within its precincts. The incident
recalls a former occasion when a news-
paper magnate, newly granted a knight-
hood, went to his investiture and dropped
his card in the silver salver along with
the others. Then he paused in deep
thought, retraced his steps, took his card
out and made a pencilled alteration on it.
Spotting the move, one of his own lynx-
eyed reporters dug out the card. Plain
“Mr.” had been crossed out and “Sir”
substituted.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Imitation jewelry brings fancy
prices to-day, strings of “pearls” worth a
few bob before the war selling for guineas.
Thirty years ago in Melbourne you could
buy a “diamond” ring for a shilling. The
shop did a good trade and the rings dis-
played on red velvet under a blaze of
electric light made a great show. If
these rings could be retailed for a bob,
heaven knows what the original cost was,
or who made them,
* * * *
“Skyrider”: At last someone has solved
at one stroke all Sydney’s traffic prob-
lems and port troubles. That is, of course,
if the plan is carried out; at present it
exists only in the minds of the new Traffic
Advisory Board. Main obstacles to Syd-
ney’s traffic are the parks and the harbor.
The solution is easy: a committee of
aldermen who have served at least three
years tree-lopping can dispose of the
parks; a few score bulldozers of the
type which has already ruined scores of
acres of loveliness on three sides of Syd-
ney will soon fill in the waste spaces
now bordered by wharves and waterside
suburbs, and smooth out the hills. The
harbor? There wouldn’t be any. And
no beastly ships ; no wharfies ; no strikes ;
no held-up exports; only cars tearing
across glorious level spaces to the city.
* * * *
“McGlum”: Some time ago I wrote
a par. ip which I said that it was doubt-
ful if you could find one Eighth Divvy
boy who had eaten rice since his libera-
tion, I was wrong. Lately I met some old
cobbers who had discovered a Chinese cafe
where rice could be eaten at any time—
at a price. My own revulsion was still
strong, but I allowed myself to be
dragged along to find the joint filled with
lads from all the notorious Jap “rice
camps.” Entering into the spirit of the»
“Komi” festival, I soon found that my
repugnance had been merely a prejudice
against the monotony of an unchanging
diet, and I remembered that rice must
have been a truly wonderful food for us
to hold out on it for so long. I recall
that our M.O. told us in a pep talk after
one man in three had died that if we
had been starved on anything else but
rice we would have been out of Jap
hands for ever after twelve months of
captivity. As it was, when rice petered
out we were given sweet potatoes, and
within a few days we vomited at the
thought of those sickly, scented “bucks.”
Our death-rate increased and didn’t get
back to “normal” until rice came on
again.
* * * *
“K.W.R.”: Not all plaintiffs in actions
for literary libel are as fortunate as the
one in the “Sporting Globe” case (B.
14/5/’47). Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings,
author of The Yearling, recently got a
verdict in a Florida court over Zelma
Casson, who sued for 100,000' dollars for
“invasion of privacy.” Miss Rawlings
admitted she had described Miss Casson
in Cross Creek, but in a manner she felt
would please the lady, who had long
been her close friend and frequent com-
panion. But present-day writers who
seek living models for their fictional
characters at least don’t run the risks of
Sir Walter Scott, who on one occasion
was challenged to a duel by a resentful
character original.
* * * *
“Hep-2-3-4”: Malaria sounded a very
grim disease until the lighthearted Digger
caught it, let its wind out, and renamed
it “the wog.” When the p.-0,-w. came
home, some of them having suffered
more than 60 attacks, many of them
seemed almost immune to effects of the
same. They floored hospital Sisters by
sitting up, with ‘temperatures well over
the century, and doing some very active
punting by means of the hospital s.-p.
merchant and their bedside earphones.
One of the earliest wog cases in the war
occurred long before the Jap stoush ; the
bloke with the rigors had never been out
of Australia. He had, though, unloaded
some crates of bananas from the
hold of a ship in Sydney Harbor.
Doctors checked the crates, some of
which were still unopened, and found the
space at the top of them to be housing
anopheles mossies, mostly dead, but one
or two in good enough shape to stab the
unwary and temporarily change a 14-
stoner into something more like a jockey.
* * # *
“1.D.W.”: Our town’s debutante ball
was an important social event, and
months of careful planning had gone into
the debs’ frocking. Shire Councillors and
their wives shared the dais with visiting
notables. After the presentation a lady
who had noticed the absorbed interest of
two litle girls asked them “And who do
you think looks the nicest, dears?” “Oh!
Mr. Chairman!” came the rapturous
reply. “In his lovely black suit and his
lovely white shirt.”
# * * *
“Sixenate”: Sydney had a share in a
proxy wedding the other day ; a stand-in
for a Sydney girl faced the young Dutch
bridegroom in Java and said “I will” on
her behalf. The Sydney bride is now
waiting for her marriage lines. When
she gets them she will go to Java to join
her spouse, and there will be a repeat
ceremony. The affair is right according
to Dutch law, and there were several
such weddings immediately after the Japs
had been cleared out of Java. Something
similar occurred in the early days of
Sydney. A free settler named Bates, dis-
daining the available maidens in the settle-
ment, decided to get a wife from England,
but found that the relation of a willing
girl insisted on some sort of a wedding
before she sailed. A clergyman under-
took what he declared would be a binding
ceremony, but would have to be ratified
by a proper church ceremony in Sydney ;
as the formalities had to be carried out
by correspondence it was over a year
before Bates welcomed his bride. Accord-
ing to a letter in the Mitchell Library he
confided to a friend that he was given a
shock when the decidedly plain damsel
stepped ashore. But he stuck to the con-
tract ; she made him a good wife, and
the pair flourished —especially in respect
of progeny.
NEVILLE CARTHORSE.
Come, brother, lay your fiddle down and tuck
away the bow!
The time has come to hush the fugue and the
arpeggio.
It almost seems the punch was lost in every
instrument
When Neville Carthorse rolled his swag and
greased his straps and went.
In pre-war years he crossed the seas from some
more favored spot
To teach us what is musical, and likewise what
is not,
A dictatorial oracle, with boundless knowledge
crammed
To praise what little might be praised and
damn what should be damned.
I
In ponderous polysyllables unleashed with
vicious vim
He riddled all performances that held no lure
for him;
And reinforced his diatribes with scraps of
classic lore
And foreign names that few of us had ever
heard before.
When would-be Melbas trilled their notes, or
embryotic Pad-
erewskis played, we never knew if they were
good or bad
Till Neville Carthorse dipped his pen or came
upon the air
To tell how good or—much more likely—just
how bad they were.
Bethink he was an exile, too, cut off from all
the whir
And whiz that cultured life provides in far-off
Manchester.
For our enlightenment, we learn, he chose to
live where he
Has never heard a witty word or sparkling
jeu d’esprit.
He’s hit the breeze for overseas, and who’s to
tell us now
How Strauss or Chopin should be played, and
Donizetti how.
Did Melody, I wonder, sigh in genuine sorrow
sunk,
And Music shriek when Carthorse did, in vulgar
phrase, a bunk?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ramac”; The Japs were always pretty
sensitive about their small stature, so
tall prisoners were not allowed to com-
plicate further the inferiority complexes
of Nippon’s Warrior Gods. On Ambon,
Lofty, six-foot-three, mooched past a
Sentry without saluting. There was a
terrific scream and Lofty looked down
upon a diminutive but loudly yabbering
Nip. Face-slapping was the order in
those days, so the tiny Jap swung an
open-hander that wasn’t far above the
Aussie’s stomach. Then he jumped. He
was still too low. As spectators we were
enjoying the circus immensely. The Nip
then ordered Lofty to stand still, strutted
off to the guard house and collected a
packing-case. Climbing on it, he gave
Lofty a stinger, at the same time survey-
ing his audience with a look that con-
vinced us all that he had convinced him-
self he was “saving face.”
* * * *
“Ivan Ho”: Long-un, the night shift’s
leading hand, was proud of his home-
brew, and yielded to persistent challenges
to bring in a sample. With a bottle of
his specialty on the hip, he boarded a
bus full of home-going housewives and
bridge-playing dowagers. The day was
warm, and Long-un was dozing with the
rest of the busload when suddenly the
top blew off the bottle of home-brew.
Clouds of froth shot out of Long-un’s
collar, hit the ceiling and streamed over
the near-by passengers. Out of the fog
of froth, squeals, heat-haze and blue
language came the voice of the lady con-
ductor: “Dear, dear! What a wicked,
wicked waste!”
* * * *
“Cock-o’-the-wallc”: Don’t talk to me
of bureaucrats. The Egg Board says we
are not to wash our eggs. Well, I took
them at their word, and the other day the
egg-box came home with a note in it,
unsigned, from one of the girls in the
grading shed: “If you don’t clean your
eggs We will class them all as cracks.”
* * * «
“Bo”: Boyd Neel, the English con-
ductor, who has had full opportunity to
appraise the quality of Australian voices,
has urged us to stop the drift of our
singers overseas. Too often the fault has
lain with prejudice against, instead of
pride in, home-grown talent. On one
Australian tour Marjorie Lawrence, ac-
claimed overseas as one of the world’s
“If you come back at the interval I'll give it a second coat."
great dramatic sopranos, had wretched
houses, whilst imported artists with in-
ferior voices have sung to packed halls.
This encouragement of local talent is one
sphere in which A.B.C. is doing
heartening work. Its recent season of
concert-version grand opera was a strik-
ing success, the soloists, all Australians,
reaching a standard which, despite the
sneers of-Carthorse and the lack of a
Gigli, would be treated with respect any-
where. In pursuance of the same en-
couragement, which last year in the Con-
certo and Vocal Competition threw up
some winners previously unknown (three
of them have gone abroad for further
studies), the 1947 National Radio Eistedd-
fod, A.B.C.’s first venture in this field,
will shortly dredge the country for
talent in all branches of music, drama
and even variety. This time the eistedd-
fod will go to the country as well, and
outback aspirants for musical or drama-
tic fame will have a chance to try their
luck. In the past six months four fine
examples of Australian talent —Joan
Hammond, Lorna Sydney, Valda Aveling
and John Dudley—have appeared on our
concert platforms, and appreciation of
their worth grew as their tours progressed.
There’s room for plenty more,
* * * ♦
“La”: The statement by “Findy”
(B. 11/6/ ’47) that he has never been tc
Stow-in-the-Wold is supported by his
spelling of the name. Stow-on-the-Wold
is a pretty village in the Cotswolds, with
miles of fences of a very distinctive stone
as one of its features. In its one street
stands a robust, if somewhat moth-eaten,
set of stocks—not flowers, but one of
those wooden devices in which offenders
were punished in former days. When
visiting Stow in 1938 I found that the
villagers took considerable pride in their
stocks, and if the Army Act provided for
such a penalty for a.w.l. merchants I
have no doubt they would have been glad
to strengthen the appeal of the ancient
exhibit by adding Buckingham to the dis-
play.
* * ♦ •
“B. A. Ker”: Sydney train-travellers
are perverse creatures. Watch an electric
train when it has reached its terminus
and is about to return. The in-rushing
crowd finds every movable seat facing
the opposite direction from that the train
will be going. Despite the race for seats
the 'changeover must take place. Bang!
bang! bang! the backs go over. Rarely
would the complete journey cover 20
miles or occupy an hour, yet the thought
of travelling facing “the wrong way” is
obviously unthinkable. What a difference
when the same persons are travelling
hundreds of miles. Seats may be booked,
but rarely indeed is an inquiry made as
to which way the reservation will face.
And for every person that faces the right
way in a long-distance train another faces
the wrong. But nobody seems to get
train-sick, nobody asks his opposite to
change places after a few hundred miles
and nobody appears to regard a “wrong-
way seat” as being the least bit less com-
fortable than the “go the way you’re
looking” one,
* * * *
“Viz”: Modem conditions seem to
have produced two diametrically opposed
methods of story-telling. In print the
emphasis is ever on brevity, with the
“short-short” the most readily-saleable
type of short story. On the air the fashion
is for padding on a scale which makes
the average three-volume Victorian novel
seem positively laconic, with a single twist
in the plot sufficient to sustain a month
of daily “episodes.” The idea is to make
it easy for the listener who misses his
serial for a week or two to pick up the
trend of the story again. I am told radio
serials improve if you miss three out of
four episodes. A better plan is to miss
the lot.
“Harold Hardupp”; As I entered the
restaurant a pleasant-faced manageress
asked me whether I was a quick eater
or a slow one. I said quick, and was
ushered to a table in a part of the room
where the diners were going at their
vittles as if for a race. At the other end
of the room a placidity had settled, and
the diners looked as though they had
nothing much to do until next week and
might as well fill in the time with eating
As I paid, the manageress told me that to
sit near fast eaters made a slow diner
uncomfortable ; he was prompted to join
“ Thomas, put me down this instant !”
in the hurry and later on felt dissatisfied.
Similarly, the man who picked his way
leisurely through a meal was an irritation
to the hurried diner; hence her idea of
separating the sheep from the goats. As
one who is reviving a consideration for
the customer that was lost during the war
the lady deserves success.
* * * ♦
“Orion”:
I saw that sth Divvy ceremony in 1919 re-
ferred to in recording the parade in Paris in
ChurchilPs honor (B. 4/6/’47). The sth Aus-
tralian Division and a division of the Chasseurs
Alpins were in neighboring quarters around
the village of Solre-le-Chateau, just south of
Mauberge. There had been some rifle-shooting
competitions between crack shots of the two
divisions, and shortly afterwards an officer of
the 6th Battalion of the Chasseurs was being
invested with the Legion of Hoi\pr. In the
square of the village, a clean and unruined
little place among wooded hills, the French
staged a full-fig parade and invited the sth
Divvy’s H.Q. platoon—a crack composite body
from all battalions —to take part in the
ceremony and line one side of the square.
General Tivey, then commanding the Division,
was present, tp the great pleasure of the French.
After the parade the French battalion com-
mander intimated to General Tivey that he
wished to make the officer commanding the
Australian platoon an honorary corporal in
the Ist squad of the m.-g. company of his unit,
henceforth to be named “the Australian squad.”
This was no light honor: the King of Italy
was an honorary corporal in the 4th Battalion
of the same regiment. The Australian officer
concerned was Lieutenant Abjornsen, of South
Perth, seconded from the 32nd Battalion. It
was a magnificent ceremony, with bands,
anthems and fanfares of trumpets to mark each
stage in it. They pinned the corporal’s chevrons
on Abjornsen’s sleeve and slung around his left
shoulder the red cordon of the Legion of
Honor, for the 6th C.A. had had that decora-
tion conferred on its colors for a brilliant
assault on a fort near Soissons in 1917. A
brother officer read a reply in French on behalf
of Abjornsen, who was no artist in the language
and was in any case overcome with emotion;
he was then introduced by the French battalion
commander to every man in his new squad, and
also to the battle story of the Chasseurs’ flag.
This flag was diagonally bisected, blue over
yellow, a silver bugle on the blue ground, and
on the yellow three swallows in flight to signify
the battalion’s home in Nice, but known among
the Germans, those Frenchmen told us, as
“les Hirondelles de la Mort.” Later in the
Frenchmen’s mess-room, they contributing wine
and the Australians rum, a very good time was
had by all,
* * « *
“Hamer”: The timepiece which, be-
cause Sydney people complained of the
continued absence of the G.P.O. clock,
has been erected over the public con-
venience- in Martin-place went wrong
after only a few weeks’ service. It
wouldn’t be a Sydney clock if it didn’t,
for in that city the public timepieces
spend their lives calling one another liars.
Possibly the air of Sydney is bad for
clocks, for they seem to develop the
same let-things-slide, what-in-the-devil-
does-it-matter? characteristics as the-
human residents.
• * * *
“Cine Ma”: Quaintest comment on
the films I have heard for a long time
came from the lips of an infant of six
who was staring at “Captain Kidd” in
a Melbourne theatre. The redoubtable
pirate had just killed half his crew under
mere suspicion and the scuppers were
running blood when the child piped up:
“I don’t like him. He’s too grumpy! ”
« * * *
“Col M.”: The Rugby League game
was dull; even the fights among the
crowd were below average. One of them,
however, did have its points. As the
crowd surged to its feet to watch the
fisticuffs, a portly gent, in front of me
blotted out the view, but kindly broad-
cast the details: “Paper-seller down below
was yellin’ out ‘Result of the Flyin’
Handicap’ . . . bloke bought one . . .
found it didn’t have the result ... hauled
the paper-seller up in front of a cop and
wanted his money back . . . cop laughed
. . . bloke got wild and hit the paper-
seller . . . other paper-sellers ganged up
and the bloke bolted.” At this stage one
of the football players had accidentally
tripped over the tryline with the ball in
his hand, so the mob sat down to watch
the game. The paper-seller showed up
later, still crying “Flyin’ Handicap,” and
now bearing a bandage over one eye.
From the stand his appearance brought a
rousing cheer. He acknowledged it with
a sweeping salute, adjusted his bandage,
and strode away—the proudest paper-
seller on the ground.
* * ♦ •
“Hackshaw”: A well-dressed young
woman called at the plastic-surgery clinic
at Royal Melbourne. “What’s your
trouble, madam?” asked the surgeon-in-
charge. “It’s these modern hats,” she
said, “They don’t suit me!” “But this
isn’t a hat-shop, madam,” said the
surgeon. “I know that,” said the damsel,
“but I thought if you could alter the
angle of my nose I might try one.”
* * * #
“Harap”: If that “New Entertainment
Workshop” (B. 21/5/’47) can guarantee
the box-office potential of a show before
it is produced it will solve a problem that
has stumped the most experienced
theatrical people. For nearly two years
Lehar failed to find a backer for “The
Merry Widow” because all who tried it
over agreed the music had no popular
appeal. Oscar Asche, convinced that
he had a winner in “Chu Chin Chow,”
had to put it on himself, as no musi-
comedy merchant in London would risk
it. Public taste is unpredictable, and
often reacts to time, place or general
cussedness as much as it does to real
value. “Carmen,” at its first appearance
in Paris, was a flop ; and it was not until
after Bizet’s death that it became a
popular favorite. I had an experience in
1919 which taught me never to dogmatise
about music or the theatre. The Cologne
Opera House was packed with a crowd
that George Robey would have loved—
fully two-thirds were Tommies of the
Army of Occupation. Although very few
could understand a word of what was
sung, it was one of the most appreciative
audiences I have ever seen. And the show
was Wagner’s “Gotterdammerung.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When I read of
surgeons being shocked by unexpected
cuss words from the anaesthetised patient
I recall an occasion when the boot was
on the other foot. The operation was
for the removal of a finger which had
been nearly amputated with an axe, and
I was drifting off with as much willing-
ness as I could muster when the surgeop
grasped the injured hand and commenced
rubbing it. I restrained a desire to yel
and heard the surgeon say to the doctoi
administering the ether, “Oh, he’s al
right. He can’t feel it.” “Can’t he?” re-
torted the other. “Look at his toes,”
which, I realised, were bent back in
pain. “Oh, well,” I caught from a great
distance, “give him a little pain and he’ll
go off quicker.” The doctor later con-
firmed the conversation and the accuracy
of the surgeon’s remark —a quick shock
to the system is a great help to the
anaesthetic.
DICTATORS.
When revolutions overthrow
Empires and lay old systems low,
All in the name of freedom,
Dictators rise to run the show.
The trouble is that, when they go,
There’s no one to succeed ’em;
And mostly, you may note, there’s more
Disintegration than before.
When Cromwell’s term as Number One
In Britain’s ruling team was done,
He couldn’t leave the billet
He’d filled so ably to his son,
An amiable simpleton
Quite unequipped to fill it.
And so, in spite of all their sinnings,
The Stuarts got their second innings.
Long before Hitler did his dash
Or Mussolini came to smash,
Each of new creeds creators,
We learned, however fierce and flash
They flame in life, when once the hash
Is settled of dictators,
And destiny has closed their reign,
The fat is in the fire again.
They mostly rise by artful coups
And many a well-considered ruse
To ruthless domination.
And when they die the question who’s
To take their place and fill their shoes
Breeds fresh exacerbation,
The sort that Russia’s like to know
When Charon calls for Uncle Joe.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


o o o
the 33s
<s>
at
%
QiQ
/<
a aflf
rr£*
VC
\
\
you -med
TARZANS CRIP
she ZlrvoMeJisutf
MENDS AND FIXES ALMOST ANYTHING-
BROKEN CHINA • KITCHEN UTENSILS • FURNITURE •
WOODWORK • ANTIQUES • JEWELLERY • LUGGAGE
• LEATHERWARE • TOYS • FABRICS • CANVAS
• FAMILY HEIRLOOMS « LEAKY CAR RADIATORS •
GASOLINE TANKS • GLASS TO OTHER MATERIALS
• MODEL AEROPLANES • A host of things foo
to mention.
&
I.
TUBE
m
mmm
v-A .♦
wc
i
r
LOOK FOR
THIS
TRADE MARK
T6f.82.87
THE SERVICE MAN
The Dwindling Safety Margin.
“Ek Dum”: In the debate on foreign
affairs which took place at the beginning
of the session in February-March a
useful discussion on Australia’s part in
Imperial and Pacific Defence might have
been generated and schemes for general
co-operation thrashed out. But, as Mr.
Menzies had said on a previous occasion,
the matters brought forward were of pro-
cedure rather than of substance, and
nothing useful resulted.
While the Government concerns itself
with busybody schemes, such as running
Trieste, defining the Austrian border
and forcing Japan to become a
democracy living on a restricted number
of islands which cannot possibly feed
the people, and with an economy super-
vised by a flock of theorists in which
there shall be plenty of trade-unions and
no metal industries that can possibly
be turned to war purposes, the British
Commonwealth seems to be disintegrating
about its ears,
Mr. Menzies pointed out in November
that the main factors which needed dis-
cussion as the core of the future peace
of the world were the prospective weight
of the British Empire as a whole and
whether .we had abandoned—as Canberra
seems to have abandoned—“the idea of
the integration of our various strengths
“Now will you apologise for the rude things you said yesterday?”
and councils” in favor of a theory that
the United Kingdom by itself is one
great Power and that the Dominions are
small or middle Powers, each going its
own gait.
The Opposition-leader declared that
there was P So reason to apologise in the
event of any charge that we were forming
an Empire bloc, for there had been an
Empire bloc in the world for hundreds
c * rm. . • , , r , .
of years. That Empire bloc had been
the greatest factor for decency and order
that the modern world had seen, as it
would continue to be Turning to the
Security Council, he pictured the
assembled delegates as entering the ring
“with photographers, cinematographers,
rpnnrtPrQ and broadcasters” in attendance
reporters ana Droaacasters in at en a ,
to indulge in a. bitter wrangle calculated
to divide rather than unite the world, and
producing no results save that the pub-
licists of each empty wrangler should
be able to say of his own champion:
“My word, he stood up for our rights ...
He put on a show ... He rattled their
bones,” little disputes being thus embit-
tered into great disputes and futility in-
creasing misunderstanding.
The Case of Egypt
Dr. Page has shown the negligence and
ignorance of strategic considerations
which have actuated the Government in
dealing with Empire relations. He has
pointed out that, when the Anglo-Egyptian
treaty was under discussion in 1936, the
British Government called a full meeting
of the Imperial Defence Committee, at
which “we did not have to press our
case with the British Government—the
British Government was glad enough of
our support.”
At that conference Australia, in the
name of 60,000 men who had died in
its defence, demanded a guarantee ot
the perpetual safety of the Suez Canal
and got it, in two articles which pledged
that no revision of the treaty would lead
to the withdrawal of British troops unless
there was an Egyptian Army strong
enough to cope with an invader,
The result of the agreement was that
when war broke out three years later,
the British were firmly entrenched in
Egypt. Thus they were enabled to hold
the Eastern Mediterranean and succor
Malta, to conquer North Africa and be-
gin the break-up of the German might;
to keep Turkey neutral and to secure
control of Syria and of Iran,
Yet last year Egypt was evacuated
without any guarantee of security for
the Canal, since a couple of stout bat-
talions could send the present Egyptian
Army on the run. The abrogation of
authority was made by the British Labor
Government without securing the agree-
ment of the Government of Australia, of
which the western defence flank was be-
ing shorn wide open, its communication
lines with the mother country being torn
apart for the first time in history,
The Australian “Government” allowed
the thing to happen not only without
protest, but without investigation, despite
the fact that the fate and safety of the
British Commonwealth, and of Australia
in particular, might at some time depend
on what had taken place. This is shown
clearly by the Prime Minister’s statement
in the House when bearded by Dr. Page:
I am unable to give a detailed explanation
of the negotiations between the Govern-
ft SffiSL'WuSgJ
subject was discussed at length during the
conference of Empire Prime Ministers in
London, though this was more for the pur-
pose of providing information for the Prime
Ministers than arriving at any decision. It
i s believed that the decision is primarily
a matter for the Government of the United
a “ £ °'"f,* is O f “SSJJgttS
through the Suez Canal is important to
Australia, even if, owing to the changes of
military technique, it is not so important
as was the case some y ears a g°- The sub J ect
not een considered by the Common-
wealth Government and no up-to-date in-
formation is available regarding the nego-
tiations.
Here was a matter so far affecting the
integrity of the British Commonwealth
and Empire that the House of Commons
spent two full days debating it, the
“Times” each day devoting a page to
the report. The Australian Government
did not even call a Cabinet meeting
about it.
Silence and Delusion
What has taken place recently has
been a prime example of how the coun-
try’s defence affairs are run.
When the recent Parliamentary session
was about to end, the defence programme
was allowed to leak in toto to a single
daily newspaper—a matter which should
have been a profound secret until it was
laid formally before Parliament for dis-
cussion. Then in the midst of the final
riot of confused debate, the Government
designed to place a ragged statement of


Missing Friends.
TO ISOBEL MARGARET BASTERFIELD formerly
of 4 Walpole Street Kew but now of parts unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your husband LINDSAY BEET
BASTERFIELD has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the Twenty-first day of July 1947 the case
may proceed in your absence You have until the
Thirty-first day of July 1947 within which to file an
answer and further take notice that a sealed copy
petition and copy citation herein have been served
upon your father G. R. LEGGATT of 25 Elm Street
Hawthorn by prepaid post.—MELVILLE & Mc-
CONKEY, 409 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
TO FREDERICK JAMES NOBLE formerly of Denili-
qum in the State of New South Wales later of the
Australian Imperial Forces but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife LOLA
ELAINE NOBLE of 9 Mantell Street North Coburg
in the State of Victoria has instituted proceedings
against you for Divorce on the ground of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the Prothonotarv’s
Office Law Courts William Street Melbourne in the
State of Victoria on or before the 16th day of
July 1947 the said suit will proceed in your absence
and a Decree for Dissolution of Marriage may be
granted and you may be ordered to pay costs If
you intend to defend this suit you must also file an
answer in the said office ten days after appearance.
Dated this 19th day of June, 1947.—J. P. HEN-
NESSY, of 186 Elgin Street, Carlton, in the said
State, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
GEORGE- DIXON STEEL.
WILL GEORGE DIXON STEEL, or anyone knowing
his present whereabouts, please communicate with
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. OF N.S.W.. LTD 25
O’Connell Street, Sydney?
8
m
\
s
is
lv
-c:.
i
tfi
S
5Ns
\
%
3v
&
l>:
tw
r"
fSS)
*l^
HilWg
V.X
«
SIKfiAI 6
❖
Mi
»
“Express Service”
saves time, trouble
There is no better way to solve freight problems than
to “send it by AIR” by speedy, efficent Qantas Air
Freight Service.
There is less risk of damage and pilferage, and you
can get almost every type of air frieght, including
perishable goods, to its destination in double-quick time.
The cost is surprisingly moderate and your Air cargo
is well looked after—on the ground and in the air.
Enquire to-day about QANTAS AIR FREIGHT
SERVICE see just how much it will save you in
time and trouble.
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
in association with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
FREIGHT DEPT.: 13 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
SRfcvf*
L ■ ' ft >v
v > '■ ■ '\,', ■- s v g«|
1
■;v :•
p~p.
s*
ANY COUNTRY HOME CAN
HAVE A CITY KITCHEN
w
The AGA Cooker brings all the comforts and conven-
iences of city cooking to country homes. Modern
appearance; sparkling "easy-clean" baked enamel
finish; special insulation—keeps kitchens cool—delicious
cooking by scientific stored heat in roomy ovens and
the convenience of having the AGA operating con-
tinuously at no extra cost.
Economical, too! Country owners have proved that fuel
costs are less than cost of wood even when drawn
from their own properties. Every AGA is British made
and carries a double guarantee.
1. It is guaranteed not to burn more than an amazingly
small specified quantity of fuel per annum.
2. It Is guaranteed against faulty material or workman-
ship for ten (10) years.
If unable to see the AGA in operation in our showroom
write for catalogue—showing the complete range of
models.
AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney.
432 Bourke St.. Melbourne.
Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert
Sts., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. ©.
Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
its intentions before the Houses, but
without the chance of modification or
public dissection in a proper way. These
proposals committed the country to a
niggardly defence programme far beyond
the life of the present Parliament, which
was a double reason for proper discus-
sion.
The impression was conveyed that the
plan had been formulated in the light of
knowledge of complete United States
and British co-operation in the South-
west Pacific sphere. Parliament was then
closed hurriedly a few weeks in advance
of the arrival of the Chief of the Imperial
General Staff, who is apparently to be
met with an accomplished fact.
Next it was announced suddenly that
Admiral Denfeld was coming to discuss,
as Commander-in-Chief of the United
States Pacific Fleet, the question of Allied
co-operation.
The Admiral arrived the moment the
House closed. The Chief of the Aus-
tralian General Staff, who has been
abroad, followed on his heels.
When Admiral Denfeld left, a nebulous
statement was issued jointly by the U.S«
Ambassador and Dr. Evatt, obviously
drawn up by Canberra and continuing
the impression which Dr. Evatt had
given in a November speech in the House,
that all was going well with arrange-
ments for joint defence of the South-
west Pacific zone, and the use of Manus.
Dr. Evatt had then told the House:
We are prepared to enter into an honor-
able agrsemen| which would provide among
other things... .for the reciprocal use of
bases Under such an arrangement it
would be possible for the American Navy
to use facilities at Manus, but not to con-
trol them. In the same way, our Navy
and Air Force would be able to use facili-
ties that are directly controlled by the
United States... .Broadly this view com-
mended itself to the British Government,
to the New Zealand Government and to
those American authorities with whom I
discussed the matter.
Mr. Abbott: Has the American Navy
walked out?
Dr. Evatt: I do not think so. There may
have been a withdrawal of some of the
forces that had been there... .From the
conversation I had with Mr. Byrnes, Ad-
miral Nimitz and others, I have every
reason to suppose that a satisfactory
arrangement will be come to Manus
Island is only one of the places involved
in a proper regional plan for the reciprocal
use of bases Also involved are Fiji,
possessions jointly held and New Zealand
possessions.
The statement issued from Canberra
to the effect that the discussions with Ad-
miral Denfeld had been “entirely suc-
cessful,” and that there is a practical
identity of interests between the United
States and Australia, certainly conveyed
the impression that the discussions had
produced accord in relation to co-opera-
tion on the lines set out in Dr. Evatt’s
speech.
It was sought to heighten this impres-
sion in the public mind by further state-
ments by a spokesman and by inspired
articles in the evening and certain sec-
tions of the morning press.
But Admiral Denfeld gave the whole
facts away with his blunt elucidation:
I have told the Australian leaders that
we have spent 131,000,000 dollars on Manus
alone. Our Pacific Fleet will have to
abandon its South-west Pacific bases and
concentrate elsewhere. We have just not
got the money.
He added later that the Australian zone
was now regarded as a second line of
defence.
General Sturdee confirmed the
speciousness of the local political repre-
sentations by saying on his return:
If there is war, the outlook for Britain,
America and Australia will be grim. We
have all so far demobilised that we have
been glad to get home 1 have not re-
turned with a comprehensive American-
inspired plan for Pacific defence. In
Washington we talked around the subject.
The actual plan is a matter for the
politicians.
At the same time the General disposed
of another bit of Government specious-
ness—if no coarser word fits it —the
Prime Minister’s inferences that all ex-
perts believed that compulsory service
would not be necessary, since they con-
sidered that the next war would be a
push-button war fought with compara-
tively small forces.
Said General Sturdee;
Both in England and Washington the
heads of the war services, including Lord
Montgomery and General Eisenhower, and
even Sir Henry Tizard (the British Gov-
ernment s chief aerial research adviser)
considered that, despite the atom bomb,
immediate changes in the present set-up of
the services were not likely.
The Vacuum Round Australia
The position is an appalling one from
Australia s point of view. Her western
flank has been shorn open without the
Government lifting its little finger to pre-
vent it.
On our immediate north are the
Netherlands Indies. In Mr. Menzies’s
words uttered at the end of last year the
Government’s record in relation to them
has been “intensely discreditable” ; “the
Government has for the whole time been
publicly defeated by a few Communists
on the waterfront* publicly defeated and
humiliated by them.” The result of its ab-
dication to the country’s internal enemies
is revealed in the figures submitted with
an air of triumph to Parliament by Dr,
Evatt, who appears to feel that the loosen-
ing of the ties of these areas with the
friendly countries of Europe will pro-
mote “Australian world leadership”
(“We must work hard for an harmonious
association of democratic States in South-
east Asia.”) The result so far is that our
trade with the N.E.1., worth about
£8,000,000 per annum in 1938-39, was
down to £1,900,000 in 1945-46 and was
only £240,000, imports and exports in-
cluded, for the six months to December
31, 1946.
With Communists largely in control
there, as in new “Governments” further
north, the northern defence flank is as
open as the western.
But the Government is not worried
about the matter except in its anxiety to
avoid discussion or having Parliament
and the people brought to a complete
realisation of how our defensive cover-
ings have beeh stripped from us.
What it is concerned about at the
moment is remodelling Japan along
“democratic lines,” as if—as Mr. Menzies
again has said —it were possible to change
70-odd million people into democrats and
to destroy their cult of Emperor-worship
by the issue of a few edicts.
Japan’s Place in the World?
The world situation has never been
more dangerous. Despite all the gabble
of the Security Council, despite all the
agreements between Foreign Ministers
and the terms of the peace treaties with
the German satellite countries, Russia is
going ahead with the Communist con-
quest of Europe and Moscow Radio is
shouting its intentions (accompanied with
the vilest type of abuse of the British
Commonwealth) every day.
In the Pacific the position is just as
dangerous as in Europe.
The Chinese Government believed re-
cently that it had the northern military
position under control, but the Com-
munist armies have had a sudden access
of trained men and materiel which has so
altered the situation that it seems now
that Kuomintang China has been beaten
to the ground. The means by which this
has been accomplished could have been
supplied only by Russia, Chinese soil
has been cynically invaded from Soviet
Mongolia. A vast network of Com-
munist agents are at work on the task
of destroying Anglo-Saxon and European
defences.
The position in Korea, where the Rus-
sians have built up a trained army of
500,000 in their zone, is serious and
menacing to the American occupation.
Everything suggests one of the most
vital influences in the safety of the
Western world may be the attitude of the
Japanese and how their country, with its
resources, may be used as a forward base
to prevent the inroads of Russian hordes
into Southern Asia and later into the
South Pacific.
In the face of these facts the policy
which is said to be under discussion for
Japan by Canberra’s diplomatic busy-
bodies is suicidal—as suicidal as their
long tolerance of Communist organisers
in the heart of the Labor movement,
despite all warnings.
Parliament should be called together
before the August conference is held at
Canberra, and certainly before the Peace
delegation leaves, in order that the situ-
ation may be fully thrashed out after Dr.
Evatt has been to Tokyo. Australian
Governmental policy on defence and ex-
ternal relationships which affect our
safety is due for a good airing.


ASK FOR
0m |i||i
nil
■r
• re
wmm
$ j
IS
»&
M
r";;"
1847
* ' ' '•"
ccr
1947
MAKERS OF GOOD WINE FOR !GO
PERSONAL ITEMS
Hugh Cairns, Nuffield Professor of
Surgery at Oxford, is coming back to
these parts next year under the terms of
the Arthur Sims Travelling Professorship,
a foundation which sponsors the exchange
of distinguished medical teachers among
the Dominions. Distinguished Cairns
certainly is, and has been since his
Adelaide ’Varsity days, when he was
Davies - Thomas Scholar and Everard
Scholar before going to Oxford as a
Rhodes man. At Oxford he added M.A.
and D.M. to his Adelaide medical de-
grees, rowed in the 1920 boatrace and
married a daughter of the Master of
Balliol. In 1925 he was Hunterian Pro-
fessor of the Royal College of Surgeons
and he spent the next two years in
America on a Rockefeller Travelling
Fellowship. Since then distinctions, fel-
lowships and honors have been the order
of the day for him, culminating last year
with a knighthood, Cairns served his
country in two wars; in the first as a
private and captain in the A.A.M.C. and
in the second as consulting neuro-surgeon
with the rank of brigadier. He is 51
this week.
Townsville is feeling justifiably proud
of its native son, Dr. William J. Youden,
recently cited by the U.S. Army Air
Force as “a man who, more than any
other individual, was responsible for the
development of techniques of bombing
accuracy,” and invested with the high
distinction of the Medal of Freedom.
Going to the U.S. with his parents as a
youngster, he became a Doctor of Science
after serving as a private in the U.S.
Army in the First World War. In 1924
he became a research officer with the
Boyce Thompson Plant Institute in New
York. During World War II he served
as operations analyst in civilian status
with the U.S. Army Air Force in Eng-
land, America, India, China and the
Marianas.
S.A. should long remember with grati-
tude Edward Wheewail Holden, the man
who, on the foundations of an old family
coach-building and harness firm, built up
one of the State’s biggest industries.
Holdens’ first motor-body works were
established in Adelaide, but the business
expanded so rapidly that elbow-room was
needed and the plant was shifted to Wood-
vilie, a sleepy village half-way between
the city and the Port, where a huge
modern factory'was built, soon to be
surrounded by all manner of subsidiary
industries. Next Holdens spread to the
other States, and became merged in
General Motors-Holdens with E.W. as
chairman. Dead in Adelaide at 61,
Holden held degrees in science and engin-
eering, but it was as an administrator and
organiser his true genius was revealed.
The taking over of Qantas by the Com-
monwealth recalls that this pioneer air
concern was registered in November,
1920, with Hudson Fysh and P. J. Mc-
Ginness as joint managing-directors and
pilots, W. A. Baird as engineer and
Fergus McMaster chairman of directors.
McGinness left after a few years, but the
other three are still at the helm, a 27-
year record which cannot be surpassed
anywhere in the world. Fysh was a Light-
horseman in World War I, and joined the
famous No. 1 Squadron as an observer,
later gaining his wings. Just before
Allenby’s final push Fysh, down with
malaria, had to give up his job
on patrol one day when two
machines took part in the most spec-
tacular air fight seen on the front. They
accounted for five scouts and a two-
seater out of seven machines, and all four
taking* part collected the D.F.C. Fysh
was disgusted at missing the do, but two
days later with his old pilot McGinness,
who was in the first stunt, he collected
a brace of two-seaters and was himself
awarded a D.F.C. After the war he and
McGinness surveyed the air route from
Charleville to Darwin for the Billy
Hughes Air Race and prepared the neces-
sary 'dromes. Fysh was responsible for
building the Darwin ’drome. He spent
some £2OO on the job, which brought
questions in Parliament as to the pro-
hibitive cost. Today £10,000,000 will be
spent on Mascot without batting an eye-
lid.
Varied was the career, closed by death,
of William Holroyd Nelson, director of
the Melbourne Zoo. He was a Melbourne
and Cambridge University graduate, a
Digger in the Kaiser’s war, a colonial
administrator in Kenya for 16 years and
an t explorer and big-game hunter, a
grazier and a civil servant. It was
his explorations in the little-known areas
of the Congo and Abyssinia which gave
him the experience of wild animals he
brought to his zoo job.
• “Macnell” visits a New Guinea
mission:
One of the most interesting personalities at
the Port Moresby conference on public health,
agriculture and native education was Papuan
missionary Dean Bodger. A virile man, silver-
haired, with eyes of agate-grey and a man’s hand-
grip, he runs at Dogura on the n.-e. coast one
of the most successful missions in the Pacific.
It boasts an air strip, lawny playing fields (on
which my ship’s cricket team just managed to
toss the mission), and a lovely cathedral longer
than St, Andrew’s, built by mission natives
under the tutelage of a Scotch architect. The
boys lumped the stone blocks from their own
quarry and gave their labor free, also con-
tributing £lOOO of the cathedral’s cost. Dogura
rescued many airmen and soldiers from' the
Japs and entertained many more convalescents,
in recognition of which the R.A.N., A.1.F.,
R.A.A.F. and General MacArthur each pre-
sented the church with their flags, which now
hang draped behind the altar of carved New
Guinea hardwood.
Gen, MacArthur thought so highly of the
Dean as to give him a letter of authority
which was an open sesame to anywhere in the
Pacific, and a deal more places besides. He
took full advantage of the gift and before the
surrender covered 60,000 miles lecturing and
broadcasting on the South Pacific in the U.S.A.,
Canada and England. From fees he raised
$20,000 for his mission. Lecturing at one or
Kaiser’s shipyards, and escorted there by t
convoy of police cycles, sirens howling, the
Dean was preceded by a troupe of high-kickers.
This, he thinks, accounts for his appreciative
audience the effects hadn’t quite worn off.
Back in Nqw Guinea, he believes godliness
comes next to cleanliness. To stress his point
he caught the dirtiest fly he could find and
showed each of his boys one of its legs under
a microscope. He’s had no sanitary worries
since.
First layman to hold the post of head-
master of St. Peter’s College, Adelaide’s
oldest school, Colin Gordon was senior*
classics master at The King’s School,
Parramatta, before the war. He left
King’s to join the R.A.A.F., and put in
five years in the service, winding up as
wing-commander in charge of rehabilita-
tion. Gordon is an Oxford M.A. who
played cricket and tennis for his college
—Christchurch—and as high-jumper was
a member of the British team in the 1928
Olympic Games at Amsterdam; two
years later he represented England in the
TALL HEAD.
British Empire Games. He took charge
of Saints last year, with over 700 boys
on its rolls. Next month sees his school
celebrate its centenary. Coventry has por-
trayed as much as he could of the 40-
year-old Head —what’s omitted brings his
total length to 6ft. 3in.
Jacob Santing, Dutch mailman on the
Kingoonya-Coober Pedy run (S.A.), has
been carrying mail and supplies to the
opal-gougers at Stuart’s Range for over
20 years. Only twice has his schedule
been seriously disrupted—in 1945 by
floods, and this year through lack of petrol
as a result of a rail dispute. Born at
Dlente, in Holland, Santing was orphaned
in his teens, and at 18 was working on
the death railway being driven through
the Amazon jungle from Portovello in
Brazil to Bolivia. After trying his hand
at farming in Brazil, he footed it to Rio
de Janeiro, joined a German boat which
brought him to Australia. He chanced his
luck at Broken Hill, and then worked on
the east-west railway line —he was one
of the few who stayed on the job from
start to finish. When opal was found at
Coober Pedy he joined the rush and
opened the first store on the new field,
carting supplies in by camel. Once
reckoned as one of the strongest men in
the north-west, Jacob still sleeps on the
track in spite of his 63 years, although
every station from .Miller’s Creek to
Wilgena on his 360-mile round trip is
“home” to him.
A rare distinction has come to H.
Vaughan, actuary for M.L.C. Assurance
—he has received from the Institute of
Actuaries in London the Brown and
Messenger Prize, awarded for outstanding
contributions to actuarial science. This
is only the second time the award has
been made to an Australian; C. H,
Wickens, who received it in 1905, suc-
ceeded George Knibbs as Commonwealth
Statistician in 1922 and added the duties
of Commonwealth Actuary a year or so
later. Vaughan is an Old Digger, who
was wounded during the big push in
September, 1918. He has been in assur-
ance for over 40 years and was appointed
lecturer in insurance mathematics at
Sydney Uni. in 1914.
The death, at 62, of Henry Cassell
Richards, Professor of Geology and
Mineralogy in the University of Queens-
land since 1912, has deprived Australian
science and art of a figure notable in
both. Born in Ballarat (Vic.), he gained
his D.Sc. at Melbourne University, and
at 27 was appointed to the Brisbane chair.
His geological surveys of Queensland, and
the work of the Great Barrier Reef Com-
mittee, of which he was the original
founder and subsequent chairman, have
achieved world-wide scientific fame. A
keen student of art, he was the founder
of the Museum and Art Galleries Associa-
tion of Australia, and was awarded the
Carnegie Medal for his work in that
field. He was also chairman of the John
Darndl Fine Art Committee of the Uni-
versity of Queensland —in which capacity
he was the virtual founder of the Uni-
versity’s art collection—and until recently,
chairman of the trustees of the Queens-
land National Art Gallery. He had been
seriously ill for a long time, but, a man
of strong spirit, he had refused to be-
come an invalid.
Edgar Clynton Ross Spooner, who be-
comes Professor of Mining and Metal-
lurgy at Adelaide Uni., and Director of
the Bonython Laboratories at the S.A.
School of Mines, hails from Tasmania,
where he was chosen as Rhodes Scholar
in 1931. At Oxford, he did research work
with .electrode potential phenomena, for
which he collected his D.Ph. in 1939.
For further research in that field, he was
awarded his D.Sc, by the University of
Tasmania. Post-Oxford posts include
that of assistant g.-m. of the Magnesium
Metal Corporation, Swansea, and mem-
ber of the British Industrial Mission
which investigated and reported on the
active-carbon industry of Germany.
He’s 39.
Westralia’s new R.S.L. secretary John
Chappell is a Scot from Edinburgh who
arrived in the West a couple of years
before the outbreak of World War I, in
which he served with the 11th Battalion,
A.I.F. When the second war came he
joined up again, and served for over four
years, attaining the rank of lieutenant-
colonel. At one time he was in command
of Albany Fortress. Between the wars
he organised the Highland Regiment
Association, and was a company com-
mander in the Cameron Highlanders. At
present he is treasurer of Perth Legacy,
vice-president of the Caledonian Pipers
and assistant to League secretary D. M.
Benson, who retires in September.
When Rafael Kubelik is conducting he
doesn’t believe in leaving all the work
to his hands and baton ; toes, knees, legs,
body, head and hair, particularly hair,
are thrown into the task. While Prior
was drawing this sketch the hair took
complete charge and he got a fleeting
impression of an old English sheep dog.
But it was only for a moment; a fierce
tremor ran through the hair, it shook
back into place and there was Kubelik,
still conducting. Rafael has been con-
ductor of the Czech Philharmonic
Orchestra since he was 21 —he’s 32 now
TALL CONDUCTOR.
—is a noted pianist and has composed
a symphony and an opera besides numer-
ous works for the violin and piano.
Father Kubelik, who toured Australia
several times with his fiddle, collapsed
and died during the Nazi occupation ;
Rafael’s wife, who is the leading Czech
violinist, also suffered during the inva-
sion ; she was interned and was in very
poor health vyhen released. Shortly after
the German surrender Kubelik, by re-
quest, conducted orchestras in London
and Moscow, and has since paid two
visits to London as guest conductor. His
A.B.C. season will take him to all States.
Into the silence;
In Melbourne, at 64, Robert John Dower,
former Chief of the C.I.D. A Boer War
veteran.-, he joined V.P.F. in 1904 and retired
in 1942 with a remarkable record for crime
detection. Not so usual in the Force, he
was a student of international affairs, took ai } :
interest in art and science and was a friend ot
many authors.
At Marburg (S.Q.), at 94, Dr. Euchariste
Sirois, “grand old man” of that prosperous dis-
trict and for many years a leading figure in
its development. His unfailing kindness, good
humor and readiness to help the unfortunate,
professionally or otherwise, will remain as an
enduring monument to his memory.
In Brisbane, at 72, Curteis Anthony Murton,
Queensland Railways Commissioner from 193 /
until his retirement in 1941. Brisbane-born,
he joined the department as a junior clerk in
1889 and worked his way to the top by sheer
unaided ability.
In Adelaide, at 71, G. A. W. Pope, chairman
of the Transport Control Board and a mem-
ber of the Liquid Fuel Control Board For
36 years till his retirement in 1941 he was
manager of the Government Produce Depot
at Port Adelaide, and in his younger days was
a prominent footballer and cricketer.
In Sydney, Harry George Bevan, former sec-
retary of the Water Conservation and Irriga-
tion Commission. A, graduate in law, he came
out of retirement during the war and worked
in the Crown Solicitor’s office.
At 64, in Gladstone (Q.), Colin William Mac-
farlane, of the Gladstone “Observer.” Coming
from Scotland as a young man, he worked
on the Grafton “Examiner” and the Brisbane
“Daily Mail” before becoming editor and
subsequently owner of the “Observer.”
At 83, J. Warren White, brother of Brudenell
and Dudley White, himself known as a com-
missioned inspector of the Queensland Mounted
Police in their palmy days and later as a
stipendiary steward for the V.R.C. and Q-l-L.
He was a fine horseman and horsemaster, and
knew the rough country round Tambonne
Mountain, on the Queensland border, in which
he spent his years of retirement, like the palm
of his hand.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The “Australia Can Make It” Exhibi-
tion was such a success that the orga-
nisers decided to extend it for another
week. Every day and night, since the
Exhibition opened thousands have
flocked to see the display of goods in
the Exhibition Buildings, and the Queen
Victoria Hospital Rebuilding Fund will
reap a harvest. Dr. Deborah Buller
Murphy, a very energetic worker for the
Hospital, has been busy in the kitchen
preparing special dinners for visitors to
the Exhibition. An unusual Chinese
dinner was prepared and served by pretty
Chinese girls in national costume. The
costumes were flown specially from
Adelaide by Patricia Hackett, Dr. Buller
Murphy’s daughter. For this dinner
tables were booked by Lady Brookes,
President of 'the Q.V. Hospital, Mrs,
W. K. Burnside and Mrs, Ewen Little-
john. Dr. Buller Murphy entertained her
friends at a birthday dinner which she
had herself prepared, and the next night
Lady Latham entertained at a dinner
party. The triumph for Dr, Buller
Murphy came when the Wine and Food
Society decided to have their dinner-
party at the “Australia Can Make It”
Exhibition, for it was she who prepared
the viands for these epicures. Gordon
Blackburn went wjith his wife, whose
black frock with its diamente trimming
was matched by the diamente on her
long black gloves. Mrs. Dudley Gordon’s
ice-blue crepe gown had diamente out-
lining the unusual neckline.
An enthusiastic reception was given to
Czech conductor Rafael Kubelik and
Sydney pianist Valda Aveling when they
appeared together in the Mozart Concerto
in A Major. Dressing was shorn of
glamor—there were very few long frocks,
decorative hats or flower-crowned heads.
Lindsay and Hephzibah Nicholas were
accompanied by Dr. and Mrs. Edmund
Alcock. Hephzibah was one of the few
women wearing formal garb—her black
velvet dinner gown was covered by a
sable coat and her fair hair was enclosed
in a black bandeau. Mrs. Sydney Baillieu
Myer covered her short black frock with
a three-quarter length reefer coat, a
nautical touch given by the trimming of
two rows of brass buttons and with a
loose gold mesh cap picking up the gold
motif. Mrs. Basil Glowrey, who was
with her mother, Mrs. Holland Hooper,
wore a three-quarter length coat over a
black frock. Well-known pianists en-
joying the concert were Vera Bradford
and Viva Holgate Clarke.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, entertained women
journalists at a luncheon party before
the first race of the June meeting held at
Caulfield. The hostess chose a teal-blue
tunic suit, the hem of the tunic banded
in beige arctic fox; her smart burgundy
hat was trimmed with gold ornaments
and veiling, and her gloves and bag were
of cinnamon-brown. Her sister-in-law,
Mrs. Eric McKay, chose an aquamarine
wool frock and coat and matching hat.
Mrs. K. M. Summers’s black suit had
Persian lamb trimming and was worn
with a deep-cyclamen-toned felt hat. An
Edwardian hairdo was the right setting
for the perky little brown hat worn by
Mrs. Ken McLean, with a brown water
mole coat. Mrs. Peter Sturdee, wearing
a brown fur-trimmed suit and matching
hat, was with Mrs. Lindsay Mildred. Mrs.
Alan Murray favored a mink coat with
a brown hat and Mrs. Mervyn Barrett
was smart in a black coat which featured
the new -deep yoke, with the line of the
coat full and flared at the back; a lime-
green hat provided contrast.
Prof. Maurice Belz, who is President
of the French-Australian Association,
and Mrs. Belz received the guests at a
dinner which the Association gave at the
Victoria to celebrate General de Gaulle’s
call to arms in 1940. Mrs. Belz was in
black chiffons. Vice-Consul of France M.
Loubere came with a party of ex-
members of the Free French Forces. In
the official party was Major-Gen. J. C.
Haydon, Chevalier of the Legion of
Honor, who was also guest speaker, Mrs.
Haydon wore a formal black dinner
gown. With Air Vice-Marshal R.
Graham, R.A.F., were Mrs. Graham and
the American Consul-General, Richard
Boyce, and Mrs. Boyce. M. and
Madame Domenique Modesti and Dr.
and Mrs. L. J. Austin were farewelled by
friends. Dr. Austin and his wife leave
in the Orion for Scotland, where Dr,
Austin will take up a position at an
Edinburgh hospital. The Modestis also
leave soon. Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Caro,
Mme. A. Gay and Prof. A. L. Chisholm
were also among the official guests.
Shirley Browne and Colin Baldwin,
who were both at the recent Fowler-
Hollywood wedding, have announced
their engagement. The pair are well
known in University circles. Shirley, who
is the only daughter of Professor G. S.
Browne, of Parkville, is completing the
Arts course she suspended to work in the
Navy office during the war. Colin, who
is the third son of Rev, and Mrs, P. W.
Baldwin, was for six years in the R.A.N,
He is now on the administrative staff of
the University, Celebrating the event,
Prof. Browne gave Shirley a party at
which 70 young friends of the newly-
engaged pair were present. Wedding will
take place next year.
Mrs. Essington Lewis pinned violets in
the smart black ensemble she wore, when
receiving guests at a luncheon party given
by the Y.W.C.A. Appeals Committee.
Co-hostess for the luncheon (held in the
Den, Y.W.C.A. Building) was Mrs. Jim
Fitzgerald, whose Donegal-tweed suit was
worn with a snappy fawn felt chapeau.
At the end of June the radio feature
“Opera for the People” will be presented
in the Town Hall, by courtesy of the
Vacuum Oil Co., and all proceeds will
go to the Y.W.C.A. funds. Among the
guests were Mrs. John Cain, wife of the
Premier; her cherry-red wool coat
featured dolman sleeves, and her lime-
green felt hat was gold-studded. Mrs,
Harold Holt was suited in tweeds. Mrs.
J. J. Daly wore a black coat and silver-
fox furs over a black pleated frock.
Glenda Raymond’s red jacket-suit was
trimmed with black Persian lamb.
This picture of Shirley Watts was
taken as she was appraising with expert
eye some horseflesh at the Moonee Valley
Club’s meeting. Shirley, who is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Watts,
of Ivanhoe, was educated at the Presby-
terian Ladies College, and later did a
course in Homecrafts at Invergowrie.
Her love of horses is strong. With her
father she hunts with the Oaklands and
Findon Hunt Clubs, and is up every
morning, rain or shine, at 6 a.m. to exer-
cise the horses. Shirley will soon cele-
brate her majority with a party at 14
Queen’s-road.
Two well-known families were linked
by the vows exchanged by Lorna Clark-
son, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A
Lorne-Smith, of Carlowrie, Elphinstone,
and Jeffrey Francis, elder son of the
late Mr. J. Blaxland and of IVfrs. Blax-
land, Wellanbah, Limbri, N.S.W., at the
Presbyterian Church, Toorak, at which
the Rev. A. Watson officiated. Jeffrey is
a great-grandson of Gregory Blax-
land, the explorer. A beautiful Limerick
lace veil belonging to her mother was
worn by the bride with her gown of
parchment-tinted taffetta. The bodice,
ending in a long point, was allied to a
full skirt, which was slightly trained.
The veil was held in place by a coronet
of orange blossoms, and she carried a
bouquet of cream roses. The bride’s
sister Gwen and Hilda Mactier were
bridesmaids; their frocks were of multi-
colored figured French sheer and their
head-dresses of matching ribbon bows.
The bridegroom’s brother Gregory was
best man.
Furs were the popular choice at Flem-
ington when the V.R.C. held the King’s
Birthday meeting in blustery weather.
Even fur-lined boots were favored by one
racegoer. Mrs. Everard Baillieu’s chunky
possum coat covered a pastel-green
woollen frock, and from her mustard-
toned felt hat soared a pheasant feather.
Grefen flowers were massed in front of the
brown hat worn by Mrs. Louis Nelken
with her brown Caracul coat. Adelaide
visitors, Dr. and Mrs. Britten Jones, were
with Mr. and Mrs. Jim Buchanan, the
latter wearing a teal-blue hat with her
navy-blue suit. Mrs. Ronnie Nott con-
trasted her black coat with a pale-blue up-
turned feather-trimmed hat. Mrs, Victor
Cornaga was another who chose black;
hers was a tailored coat worn with a
small off-the-face hat. A light-grey suit
and matching coat were worn with
London-tan accessories by Mrs. A. G.
Hunter. Mrs, T. C. Manifold’s blue
two-piece suit was worn with a matching
hat.
From Sydney
The most exciting doings of the week
were the John Charles Thomas concerts.
On the opening night the Town Hall was
packed with enthusiasts; as the night
wore on the enthusiasm grew. Ten
o’clock, usual concert closing time, found
the audience still firmly in their seats —
at 10.30 the listeners began reluctantly to
think of making a move for home.
Women “dressed” for the occa-
sion—they wore their most beautiful
frocks and most luxurious wraps.
Many pinned camellias in their hair.
Mrs. Roland Foster’s outsize bunch
of violets worn on the lapel of her coat
deserves honorable mention. With Mrs.
Foster sat Catherine, daughter of the
American ambassadorial Butlers, and
Miss Alice Selen, of the Embassy staff.
America in Sydney turned up in num-
bers to honor their countryman ; Vice-
Consul, Miss Evelyn Schwarztrauber,
hostessed a party of 18. The Mervyn
Finlays, Mrs. Hugh Ward, Mrs. V. A.
Stott, of Harden, and the Herbert Farley
couple were among the applauders. With
Mrs. John Woods came Mrs. Reg Fagan,
Also in this group were Marie Fagan in
black velvet and the Cliff Gearin couple.
Mrs. Gearin’s frock of hyacinth-pink
marquisette was very full as to skirt. The
H. E. Bradys were there ; her silver and
blue brocades were worn under a squirrel
coat. Mrs. E. Salenger’s frock
was of black velvet. With Mrs.
E J. Tait sat daughter Mrs. Angus
Macpherson and the prank Tait
couple, who had come up from Mel-
bourne for the concert.
This Letter likes the baritone’s deep
and sustained bow, his way of telling the
story of some of his songs, and the way
he introduced his fellow-American,
soprano Vivian Della Chiesa, to his
Sydney audience, just as though the audi-
ence and Miss Chiesa were two friends
he wished to make known to each other.
Sheila Graham,, the girl pictured here,
was demobbed last week. This writes
finis to four and a half years of war ser-
vice with the Red Cross. Sheila’s last
war service was at Ita Jima, where she
was commandant of the women person-
nel of the Red Cross Field Force,
8.C.0.F. Part of the girls’ kindly work
was to teach the lads in hospital weaving
and suchlike handcrafts, and in this latter
craft, Sheila says, the Indian girls in the
small company excelled. Before she went
to Japan Sheila was a Red Cross worker
in New Guinea and Bougainville, and
her only regret is that she didn’t serve
in the Middle East. Sheila, who “is a
daughter of Dr. R. V. Graham, of
Gordon, is a B.Sc. of Sydney University.
Photograph by Norton Trevaire.
Gynecologists from all over the world
will meet at the Rotunda Hospital bi-
centenary Conference, which takes place
in Dublin early in July, Dr, Clement
Chapman will represent R.P.A., and he
and Mrs. Chapman left yesterday by Lan-
castrian. They will lunch in London on
Friday. On Saturday they go to Wales
to visit Mrs. Chapman’s people, then back
to London in time to attend the wedding
of her niece, Sheila Fuller, qn the fol-
lowing Saturday. That night they will
cross to Dublin for the doctor to be in
time to register at the Conference. After
that come a tour of Ireland and visits
to Paris and Brussels. September will
see them back in Sydney. Professor
Mayes, representing the University, will
be another Sydneyite to attend the. Con-
ference,
The visitors will have ample oppor-
tunity to get to know each other. The
programme tells of a reception by His
Excellency the President of Eire, a
garden party given by the Master of
Rotunda (the head of • this hospital is
always called The Master), Dr. Ninian
Mclntire Falkiner, jn the hospital
grounds, a reception by the Medical
Association of Eire at University
College, a Congress dinner at the Gresham
Hotel, to be followed by a special per-
formance at the Abbey Theatre. The
final “do” is a sherry party (by invita-
tion) at the Gresham, given by the editors
of the Irish Journal of Medical Science.
The Rotunda Hospital was built over
20 years before Captain Cook discovered
Australia. Quoting from the pro-
gramme ; —•
It was the first hospital ever established
to alleviate the sufferings of expectant
mothers. Bartholemew Mosse, who was
the founder and first Master of Rotunda,
was the son of the rector of Maryborough.
He was educated in Ireland, and was
apprenticed to one John Stone, surgeon,
and practised as an army surgeon in the
Minorca Islands. Later he travelled ex-
tensively and studied midwifery in Eng-
land, Holland and France. In 1742 he
returned to Ireland, was admitted as a
Licentiate of Midwifery at King and
Queen’s College, and from that day he quit
the practice of surgery and became a man
midwife.
The reputation of this hospital is such
that medical students and maternity
nurses from all over the world go therfr
for instruction.
About 650 delegates came to Sydney
for the 25th annual general conference
of the C.W.A., which was held at the
Assembly Hall. All of the 56 resolu-
tions on the agenda paper were of vital
importance to country dwellers. Among
the problems dealt with were: Facilities
for the education of the outback child ;
necessity of free first-class return rail-
way transport for persons ordered by
country doctors to the city for treat-
ment, the prevention of t.b. and the
care, medical and financial, of those
afflicted by the disease. Members’ concern
about the shortage of nurses and how
this was affecting the health of the people
was outlined on the business of the Con-
ference and in the retiring president’s
address, a ten-page, closely-typewritten
affair delivered by Mrs. L, Mac Smith
without once looking at her notes. Mrs.
Northcott, wife of the Governor, opened
the Conference, wearing for the first time
the badge of the association.
Great applause when the treasurer,
Mrs. C, W. D’Arcy, who retires after eight
years of honorary and honorable service,
disclosed that this year £16,000 had been
distributed to various organisations (in-
cluded in this was £4872 for Food for
Britain). Mrs. D’Arcy was made a life
member.
Good work is being done by the
handicrafts under the sympathetic guid-
ance of Mrs. Basil Foulds and her com-
mittee. Many partially-disabled civilians
as well as ex-service persons are attend-
ing the classes.
Members took some time off for play.
Enjoyable was the luncheon at Elaine,
when inter-State delegates were the guests
of Mrs. Hubert Fairfax. So, too, was
the luncheon at Cahill’s when inter-State
delegates were the guests of the N.S.W.
Executive Committee. Ones of the high-
lights of the Silver Jubilee reception at
the Trocadero was the three-tier birthday
cake, with its 25 candles, made by
Bathurst delegate Mrs. J. J. C. Sullivan.
The icing was in the association’s colors
of blue and gold, with a silver fern at
each corner. This cake will go to
London, where it will be given to the
Women’s Institute. Marjorie Northcott
came to this party accompanied by
Sheila Collett.
Mrs. G. L. Brookes is the new State
president in place of Mrs, L. Mac Smith,
who now becomes the C.W.A.A. presi-
dent, Mrs. F. W. Satchell the hon. secre-
tary and Mrs. H. M. Henderson the hon.
State treasurer.
In November of last year the Gover-
nor, Lieut.-General John Northcott,
launched a public appeal for funds to
aid the N.S.W. Homes for Incurables. In
showing his interest in these homes he
was following a great-hearted predeces-
sor —Sir Harry Rawson. It was through
his efforts that the homes were moved to
their present position at Ryde, Previously
this work of caring for the sick without
hope of recovery had been carried on in
a small way at Surry Hills and later at
Redfern. This work had been started
by Miss Susan Schardt, who had herself
been blind from birth.
The work of these homes, Weemala
and Moorong, has been going on for 45
years. But as the years pass and popula-
tion grows so does the need for the re-
modelling of old and the erection of new
buildings. Weemala holds) about 70
patients ; Moorong not more. Daily the
list of patients seeking the sympathy and
attention, the haven of these homes grows
longer. It is hard for those in authority
to reply that not only is there no room
available but that there is already a long,
long waiting list. There are incurably
young as well as middle-aged and old,
and Weemala would gladly welcome
them. Now £60,000 is needed to make
the needful extensions. So far the
response to the appeal totals about £5OOO.
The would-be patients of these homes
look to you and me to help them —they
cannot help themselves.


They took the risk
s m
mgs %
W
JPJH*
■ -1 m
m i
U#
S 3
One of the most magnificent examples of
man’s courage and endurance was Scott’s
epic sledge journey over the Antarctic
wastes in search of the South Pole.
Leaving England in 19X0, it was not until
two years later, on January 18, 1912,
that Scott’s party finally reached the
Pole, only to learn that Amundsen had
forestalled them by a matter of weeks.
—for the past 250 years have undefWitten risks of
every description in all parts of the world.
In Australasia we are proud of the fact that we were
the first Brokers making Lloyd’s Insurance directly
available to the Australian public. The unquestionable
security that only a Lloyd’s policy can offer is available
to you in any State in the Commonwealth through—
EDWARD LUMLEYASONS PTY LTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, and 9-11 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
and S 3 WATT STREET, NEWCASTLE.
Melbourne: 287 Collins Street. Adelaide; T. & G. Building. Brisbane:
A.M.P. Building. Perth: IS6 St. George’s Terrace, hobart: 82 Collins
Street; and Canberra, A.C.T. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch,
Dunedin, new Zealand, and London, new York, viontrkal, Paris, Colombo
and SINGAPORE. EL. 14. is
BRAN DAL ERrS
&
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitation*
C. BRANDAUER * CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM. ENO,
i\ew invention Control*
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Tlept. 23T) 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
York Motors (Holding), Ltd. (Sydney)
r Parent Co.— ■x
Subsid.’s t Dividends \
Nov., Profit. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 43,023 20,630 64 p.c. 5 p.c. 20,566 65
1940.. 10,250 21,092 64 „ 5 „ 20,800 357
1941.. 19,356 18,843 S| „ 5 „ 18,200 1,000
1942.. 21,063 34,423* 64 „ 8.9 „ 32,890 2,533
1943.. 23,939 12,775 6| „ 3 „ 14,560 748
From tax reserve, £3027 .. ■■ 3,775
1944.. 35,898 32,336* 6! p.c.10.5 p.c. 34,612 1,499
To inner reserve, £1499 .. .. 1 —
1945.. 56,101 17,285 9.9 p.c. 81,158 f 1,685
1946.. 55,828 53,547 10 „ 81,200 24,032
1947.. —65.000 J
* Includes two years’ divs. from subsidiary.
f £15,558 paid from subsid.’s inner reserve.
1 Gross.
Within the motor trade a difference can
be seen between the present fortunes of
distributors and of manufacturing body-
builders. York Motors are representative
distributors, and profits of the subsidiary
given above show a definite post-war
revival. These figures actually understate
the tendency. On the other hand, manu-
facturers, like General Motors (B.
18/6/’47), are still bogged in reconversion
difficulties. Their problem of unbalanced
supplies—at first a lack of chassis, then
of body materials —has also affected York
Motors, whose stocks of unassembled
components doubled last year. But dis-
tributors have fewer labor troubles ; have
done an increasing business in replace-
ment parts for ageing vehicles; and can
develop other interests whilst waiting for
cars. In York’s case, too, franchises are
held for British types which made a com-
paratively smart return to the market,
not being mixed-up in the dollar problem.
Above table records the whole life of
the holding co., though the subsidiary—
York Motors Pty., Ltd.—is seven years
older. Profits of the latter depict" the
firm’s progress more truly. Although
nearly all the parent’s profits are divi-
dends from the subsidiary, these divs.
often have little relation to the sub-
sidiary’s earnings. In fact, what the
holding co. treats as profit in any year
has been declared by the subsidiary as
div. for the previous year. At annual
meetings, therefore, shareholders know
what distributable profit there will be for
the next term. The £55,000 in the table’s
last line, for instance, has been declared
as divs. from the proprietary’s earnings
for 1946 ; and, subject to administrative
charges, which usually come to about
£2OOO, it will be the parent’s net profit for
year ending November, 1947. How much
will be distributed is, of course, not
known. Sometimes the parent receives
a second, much later, div. from the sub-
sidiary for a past year; or hand-outs to
shareholders are financed from the sub-
sidiary’s inner reserves. This complex
system was doubtless thought expedient
by directors in the years of consolidation,
and shareholders have had no reason to
complain about their receipts.
York Motors Pty., Ltd., was established
in 1932, having Chrysler and Morris
franchises for most of N. S. Wales. Hold-
ing co. was registered in 1939 with paid
capital of £312,000 in £1 ords. It paid
£311,976 for the proprietary’s 52,000
shares, whose face value was £1 each.
Holding co. immediately increased its
capital by an issue of 80,000 6f p.c. cum.
prefs. of £l. On the occasion of this
issue net profits of the subsidiary for
the previous three years were disclosed ;
they averaged £98,404. The pref. capital
was all repaid in 1943, Meanwhile
franchises had been obtained for Wolseley
cars and Howard Auto Rotary Hoes ; also
(through Dominion Motors, an agency of
the co.) for Willys, Studebaker, Singer
and Dennis vehicles. In the most diffi-
cult war days gas-producers were dis-
tributed ; then franchises were gained
for International and Mack trucks, which
were trickling in under lend-lease; co.
also had Government contracts for
assembly and mechanical services. At
end of the war it was appointed Queens-
land distributor for Austin cars and
trucks, Cletrac tractors, British Standard
Machinery products and Clark lifting
equipment. The directors have flung
quite a wide net.
Post-war advance has been better than
final profits show. Until last term the co.
was treated by the taxgatherers as a
private one, but now that the shares have
become widely dispersed, the stiffer rates
for public cos. apply. Last year’s profit
before tax was £102,397 better than in
1945, but tax swallowed all that gain and
a little more.
Balance-sheet of the subsidiary re-
flects the doubling of turnover last
year, book-debts being higher by
£192,328. The rise in stocks by £220,179,
or 142.7 p.c., is largely due to the pile-up
of chassis waiting for locally-built bodies;
York Motors Ptt., Ltd.
1939. 1942. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital.. £52,000 £52,000 £52,000 £52,000
Reserves* .. 122,570 106,790 153,560 154,277
Overdraft .. 21,632 14,755 158,844
Creditors and 1 f 209,547
specific res. \ 164,098 132,919 82,979 \
Tax provision J ( 124,726
Freeholds .. 52,781 52,835 52,835 52,835
Plant .. 7,046 9,768 9,838 16,650
Stocks , . 250,067 102,205 164,331 374,510
Debtors .. 36,617 103,454 62,601 254,829
Cash, shares,
etc. .. 13,789 23,447 23,789 24,970
• Includes p. and 1. balance.
Overdraft is higher by £144,089, whilst
creditors, exclusive of tax provision, are
greater by £148,390. On balance, liquid
assets exceed liabilities by £161,192, which
is £18,305 better than in 1945.
Balance-sheets of the holding co. are
less informative and vary only slightly
from year to year. Latest is as follows:
York Motors (Holding), Nov., 1946.
Paid capita] ~£312,000 Shares in sub-
P. &i. balance 24,032 sid., at cost £811,976
Creditors, tax Advance to sub-
provision .. 2,267 si d- • • • • 24,400
Cash .. .. 963
Intangibles .. 960
£338,299 £338,299
Directors propose to strengthen the
parent’s reserves by “a transfer of
£20,000” in the next term. Even if this
all comes from current profits, the 10 p.c.
div. can be maintained. The reserve will
probably abolish the need for those
complex adjustments between parent and
subsidiary which have been mentioned.
Last year’s high turnover has been
well maintained in the first six montns
of this term. Though the dollar problem
is likely to remain for a while, British cars
can be expected soon in better quan-
tities. Removal this month of the U.K.
tax system based on horsepower will
allow makers to concentrate on a smaller
range and adopt mass-production
methods, beneficial both to prices and
supplies. Australia’s quota may be raised
also by the restrictions on British cars
lately imposed in Argentina and India.
As frictions abate, this co. should reap
rewards for its progressive policy, and
some stability may result from its spread
of interests.
Although not listed officially, recent
sales of the £1 shares have been around
395., yielding 5.1 p.c. on present div.
Net tangible backing, on subsidiary’s
balance-sheet figures, which include no
goodwill for franchises, is 13s. 2d.
Gordon and Golch (Australasia), Ltd.
, —• Dividends
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
Mch., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1937. 87,205 8000 12 p.c.= 60,000 19,206 805,743
1938. 99,988 8000 13 „„ 65,000 26,988 332,731
Goodwill written off, £118,074 .. 214,657
1939. 94,827 8000 14 p.c.= 70,000 16,827 231,484
1940. 92,667 8000 13 „„ 65,000 19,667 251,151
1941. 86,316 8000 12 „„ 60,000 18,316 269,467
To provident fund, £9915 .. .. 259,553
1942. 84,225 8000 14 p.e.= 70,000 6,225 265,778
To provident fund, £4192 .. .. 261,586
1943 79.968 8000 13 P .e.= 65 000 ) 5>968 26 7,554
Patriotic donations, £lOOO )
1944.102,858 8000 163 p.c.= 83,750 \ oaM „, sfi ,
Patriotic donations, £l3OO ) 9,808 277,062
1946.106,031 8000 174 p.c.= 87,600 10,531 287,893
1946.106,271 8000 183 »» 93,750 4,621 292,414
1947.130,843 8000 20 ~,, 100,000 22,843 315,257
* Subject to goodwill, £118,074 till March, 1938.
Investors nowadays place a premium of
350 p.c. on scrip of the nonogenarian
Gordon and Gotch, a compliment paid
to few others. The path for advancement
appears to be cleared well ahead in each
department of the business.
Besides importing books and periodi-
cals, the co. acts as wholesaler in news-
agents’ wares, as advertising contractor
and paper merchant throughout Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. Each section im-
proved last term. Advertising turnover
increased with larger newspapers, and is
ahead of the pre-war figure. Paper
from Canada, U.S.A., Sweden and
local sources was in better supply; so
were fancy goods and stationery. A
rising trend in expenses, which directors
had commented on in the previous year,
was held firmly in check:
1939. 1942. 1946. 1947.
Gross ..£167,502 £243,584 £357,428 £897,393
Exes. .. 72,675 159,359 251,167 266,650
Net .. £94,827 £84,225 £106,271 £130,843
“Exes.” here include tax, an item which
must have increased last year. Directors
did well, therefore, in reducing the rate
of exes, to gross profit from 70.9 p.c. to
67.1 p.c.
According to the chairman, gross
profit as a proportion of turnover has
dropped, owing to higher costs (figures
are not given), but turnover itself has
reached an all-time record. This is re-
flected in the latest balance-sheet, where
the greatest movement has been in book
debts (up by 44.5 p.c., or £188,704). A
comparatively small rise (£59,536) in
standing stocks indicates the unsatisfied
demand for the co.’s lines, especially
paper. To meet these increases, cash was
drawn upon for £204,194 and liabilities
as a whole rose by £18,967:
Mar.,’39. Mar.,’42. Mar.,’’4o. Mar.,’47.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities . . 139.421 143,350 275,539 362,982
Tax reserve . . 48,350 106,867 838,751 270,275
Freeholds . . 194,118 187,850 187,598 184,722
Leaseholds . . 16,024 14,990 13,010 14,765
Plant, etc. .. 30,298 27,327 14,312 19,445
Stock.. .. 235,265 222,026 818,417 377,953
Book debts . . 898,953 248,271 423,514 612,218
Cash, Invest- _
merits, etc.,, 204,478 445,340 597,604 393,410
Liquid assets are greater than liabilities
by £750,326, an improvement of £25,081.
In the next term the co. may have to
surmount additional though temporary
difficulties. Supplies of writing and print-
ing paper from Nprth America are likely
to be reduced by tfie enormous demand in
U.S.A. which is swelling prices. Sweden
cannot fill the breach until greater coal
supplies from U.K. permit full-swing pro-
duction, and eyes may turn to the local
industry, which is rapidly growing, but
still awaits plant. Moreover, G. and G.
have suffered from the few weeks’ stop-
page of British periodicals during the
recent coal crisis; the effect will be on
next year’s earnings. But remembering
that last year was itself one of shortages,
the co.’s long-term prospects must be
considered very good.
The new warehouse in Auckland will
probably be finished early in 1948.
Others are to be built, when possible, in
Perth and Brisbane; site for the former
has been waiting for over 12 months, but
the Brisbane position (at corner of
George- and Charlotte-streets) is a recent
purchase.
On a 20 p.c. div. basis, ords. bought
at the current price of 90s. will yield
4.5 p.c.; they have net tangible backing
of 335. 2d. The 8 p.c. cum, prefs. have
changed hands recently at 405., yielding
4 p.c., and have the same net backing be-
ing preferential only as to div. Share-
holders are able to follow the co.’s pro-
gress particularly well, because direc-
tors publish f&ll accounts, with balance-
sheet, evfery half-year.
Standard-Waygood, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 2,053 Nil 2,053 7,787
1937.. 2,104 Nil 2,104 9,841
1938.. 5,574 3J p.c. = 4,623 951 10,792
1939.. 4,260 Nil 4,260 15,052
1940.. 9,884 7$ p.c. = 9,246 638 15,690
1941.. 15,923 12| „ „ 15,409 514 16,204
Written off, £lO,OOO 6.204
1942.. 14,175 10 p.c. = 12,327 1,848 8,052
1943.. 12,405 10 „ „ 12,327 78 8,130
1944.. 17,238 10 „ „ 12,827 4,911 13,041
1945:. 21,652 10 „ „ 12,327 9,325 22,366
1946.. 16,299 10 „ „ 12,327 3,972 26,338
1947.. 7,368 5 „ „ 6,164 1,194 27,532
It was expected that the co. would
have rehabilitation trouble. Labor in the
engineering industry has been especially
fractious and materials scarce. Whilst
some improvement on these points may
be hoped for, the co. still has to solve
its crucial problem, the capturing of a
strong civilian market, which has eluded
it since the early ’thirties.
Electrical and lifting machinery were
not a sufficient occupation owing to keen
competition from overseas. Costly
attempts were accordingly madef to add
profitable lines to the repertoire. Most
ambitious scheme was to manufacture
turbo-alternators, but the promised Gov-
ernment support by tariff and patronage
didn’t materialise and £183,305 was writ-
ten off plant in 1928. In 1939 “a con-
siderable sum” was spent on a new high-
speed engine, which had to be abandoned
the next year About the same time, the
co. took over the electrical incubator
business of Mann and Gamble Pty., Ltd.,
but recent results have been poor; it
incurred a loss last year, stocks of in-
cubators being “heavily written down”


Large Industrial and Commercial
House in India requires
a Very Capable and Influential Firm
in Australia to act as
SELLING AGENTS
for • LINSEED OIL
• CASTOR OIL
• GROUNDNUT OIL
• KAPOK OIL
• and other VEGETABLE OILS
and also to act as
EXPORT AGENTS
for ELECTRICAL GOODS, HARDWARES,
CHEMICALS, WOOLLEN PIECE GOODS,
HOSIERY, BUTTER AND TINNED
PROVISIONS, ETC.
Applying firms must havk a good hold
of the Australian Market.
Detailed applications stating terms, past
experience of lines handled and furnishing
Commercial and Banking references should be
addressed to
Swaika Export & Import, Ltd.
“Pollock House,”
28a Pollock Street,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER ?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
an;
Fitter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia >
JACK.SOM 4
O’SUUJVAV
iA PIW»
V bri*sv" V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing- Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” WINDOW FACE
ENVELOPES
.. NATIONAL BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
NATIONAL FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
NATIONAL” WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES,
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
DAWES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, S6O Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
PATENTS, TRADE MARKS.
DESIGNS AND COPYRIGHTS.
AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS
GR'FF P, HASS L AND GRIFFITH
PATENT ATTORNBYS—BST. 1895
Asbestos House, 67 York St., Telephone
SYDNEY, N.S.W. * BX 2649
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
CENSUS
30th June, 1947
A Census will be taken of all persons in the Commonwealth
on the Night between Sunday, 29th June and Monday,
30th June, 1947.
Collectors will deliver the Census Forms at every dwelling,
but any person who has not received the necessary
Census Form on or before Sunday, 29th June, must
attend on Monday, 30th June, at the nearest Post Office
or Police Station and complete the necessary Form.
Collectors will call at every dwelling on or shortly after
Monday, 30th June, for the completed Census Forms.
All information furnished in the Census Forms, or given to
a Collector, will be treated as strictly confidential.
Census Collectors will render assistance in completing the
Census Forms on request.
ROLAND WILSON.
Commonwealth Statistician.
pfwaitvJ F° r Refusing to Supply the Required Information £lO
( For Wilfully Untrue Statement ~ .. .. £5O
Across the World from Sydney
BRITAIN
days
CANADA
dqys
Plane
5 days /*§•
days
EGYPT
days
U.S.A.
b y z days
Boat
Flying
a
WEST AFRICA
days
is
hours
SOUTH AFRICA
days
BOM
Every year 8.0.A.C.
carries 150,000
passengers on the
72,000 miles of
routes shown on this map. No less than 52 of
our pilots have over a million miles’ flying
experience behind them —and behind those pilots
is the 28 years’ flying experience of 8.0.A.C. itself.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
Shell House. Carrington Street, Sydney.
General Agents: QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin, Port
Moresby, Lae. Rabaul. Booking agents in all cities.
Speedbird Routes across the World
Unking AUSTRALIA with:
BRITAIN . NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • INDIA • MIDDLE
EAST • SOUTH. EAST AND WEST AFRICA • CANADA • U.S.A.
Q.E.A. operate the Flying-boat service between Australia and
Singapore and the Lancastrian service between Australia
and Karachi. T.E.A. operate the service from Australia to
New Zealand.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS
EMPIRE AIRWAYS, SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS
55/AU
(apparently from inner reserves). The
co.’s filled order-books in war-time have
not remained.
Both stocks and debtors’ balances were
down last term, as a result of reduced
activity;—
_., , 1 939 - 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid -capital.. £123,273 £123,273 £123.278 £123,273
Overdraft .. 8,322 23,628 63,846 27,387
creditors and
tax provision 12,177 27,165 41,146 18,566
Freeholds .. 111,659
Stocks " 30^766 ' 40)017 70’709
■SSwU. 57.598 86,338 2 5 ’,980
Sundry debtors 7,619 75,555 96,176 29,379
oash -- •• 917 1,407 1,620 1,708
Total liabilities also fell (by £59,039) and
the excess of liquid assets over liabilities
was £19,909 less at £79,431.
On the credit side of the ledger, the
co. suffered exceptionally from strikes
last term and has since introduced an
incentive wage-system to step up output
and reduce overhead. Also, overseas
competition will have some of its teeth
drawn by the much higher rise in costs
in U.K. and U.S.A., and the doubling of
freight expenses. When our building
i programmes gather a bit of momentum,
Standard-Waygood should be kept occu-
pied.
Investors are not pessimistic, valuing
the 13s. 4d. shares at around 15s. 3ct.
Yield at that price is 4.3 p.c. on present
div. Net tangible backing is 16s. 2d.
Towers Old School of Mines
“5.0. M.”: Some interesting personali-
ties in the mining world would be present
at Charters Towers (N.Q.) if surviving
graduates of its former School of Mines
turned up next month at the Back to
Charters Towers Week, which is to cele-
brate the town’s 75 th year. The
Mayor, Jack Cunningham, a fellow-
graduate, would welcome • them, and so
would Billy Clark (Black Jack mine),
an ardent early graduate and firm be-
liever that Towers mining will revive.
An early graduate was H. Reichelman
(Port Kembla). Later were O. H, Wood-
ward (Port Pirie Smelters), Len Grant
(8.H.P.), W, H. Williams (Mines Dept.,
Ttis.), C. C. Morton (Chief Government
Geologist, Q’land), C. Elford (formerly
State Treatment Works, Irvinebank, but
now on zircon rutile beach sands near
Southport), several superintendents at
Newcastle Iron and Steel Works, and
others scattered throughout the Common-
wealth.
Among other early graduates, G.
Wasteneys went to Mexico, Norman
Ford to Gold Coast, West Africa, Bill.
Oliver, after war service, to Nigeria. C.
Elford, mentioned above, and O. Carlson,
now an Inspector of Mines (Q.), went to
Malaya after terms at the Chillagoe
smelters. J. Ludlow is chasing gold near
Blue Mountains, Coen (N.Q.). Some
changed into other lines like T. R. Pearce,
who later graduated as a doctor and
became a figure at the Institute of
Tropical Diseases. Arthur Moran went
into the Strand Hotel, Cairns, with mining
ventures as an occasional fillip.
About 1901 the Mines Depart-
ment took over the locally-fostered
Mining Institute, and under the
direction of W. A. McLeod (later with
Bewick Moreing), followed by Wm.
Poole, a mining engineer of repute, and
then by H. McGillivray, the School
reached its peak about 1912, when mining
in Queensland, and particularly at the
Towers, began to decline. In 1914, many
graduates and students enlisted, likewise
the class of youth who might have faced
the long intensive course of study. Many
students studied whilst working in the
mines or elsewhere, duplicated morning
and evening lectures rendering this pos-
sible. Fletcher Young, Ernie Laun,
Ossie Williams and Herbert Redmond
were typical examples and later became
State Inspectors of Mines. Joe Hughes
and Bill Bowater graduated likewise and,
joining the staff, built up a sound metal-
lurgical analysis branch.
The after-effects of war upon atten-
dance persisted into 1923, when, in a weak
moment, the Mines Department agreed
to transfer the School of Mines to the
Education Department under the plea of
co-ordination of education. Under non-
technical (mining) directors, the end came
about 1925. The practical assaying,
chemical and other laboratories were
later dismantled, and the valuable scien-
tific equipment dispersed, all under the
then, as now, powerful plea of co-ordina-
tion. But the tree shall be known by
its fruit.
“F.A.M.” writes?—
“Dimbula” (B. 28/5/’47) is wide of the mark
when he says Mt. Carbine (N.Q.) was worked
for wolfram in the late ’eighties. When Mt.
Carbine was first discovered the deposit was
thought to be manganese iron, and the creek
here is known as Manganese Creek. It was
in 1904 that Mt. Carbine was first worked for
wolfram. Sam Baird had all the hill pegged,
and wouldn’t allow anyone else to work on
it. Tom Kilpatrick pegged a lease because
he knew that Sam Baird did not have a regis-
tered claim. The warden had to settle the
argument, and this is how it was done: each
party was handed an application form, and
whoever had it posted first on Mt. Carbine
got the claim. Kilpatrick won the race on
horseback. Sam Baird then built a hotel,
which was completed in 1905. The contractor
was a man named Johnston. Kilpatrick later
sold the lease to the Irvinebank Co.
* * * *
As recently forecast in these columns.
Great Boulder’s profit is up. Preliminary
figure is £101,259 stg., compared with
£93,261 for the previous year. A final
div. of 3d., making 6d. for the year (un-
changed), has been declared. In view of
official mine reports the present weakness
of the market is puzzling.
On July 24, Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) will
pay a div. of Is. 6d. stg. a share, less
U.K. tax of 9s. in the £. The distribu-
tion is 3d. more than for the previous
year. Profit at £38,651 is up £3862. Re-
cent developments in the deep levels are
encouraging.
Hill 50 Gold NX. (W.A.) is whooping
about developments at the 300 ft. level.
Here a crosscut along a diamond drill
hole is reported to have passed through
12ft. of ore, assaying 9dwt. a ton. This
grade confirms that indicated by the drill,
Driving continues.


6*
WWW
*PT U *
MOTOR OIL
Flows freely at low temperatures —.
retains its “body” at high temperatures
shaiu*e
correct
your
to
GRADE
WINTER
H.V
NEPTUNE OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
NO>4>24 (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
FHCING fl PRRK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
SUNDRY SHOWS
JOHN CHARLES THOMAS.
The savage declamation with which
the American baritone invests the tre-
mendous climax of Cyril Scott’s song
“Lord Randall,” in which the dying young
nobleman bequeathes a hangman’s rope
to his “true love,” his murderess, is indi-
cative of the singer. In such dramatic
ballads as this he really puts his ears
back and flies into the vocal collar. He
has an imposing presence, a chest that
would be viewed with respect by a
gorilla, and an effortlessly-produced voice.
When he has to reach above F on either
the “O” or “I” vowels —always a bari-
tone’s bugbear—he shrewdly saves from
breaking by inserting a suggestion of
either “U” or “E.”
In his first three concerts Thomas
covered an amazing range: antique
Italian, French, Schubert and Brahms,
English, Irish, Welsh and Scottish ballads,
sea shanties, negro spirituals, grand opera,
and a captivating cycle, “Songs of the
Gambling Men.” The four numbers com-
prising this latter group, based on the
folklore of fishermen on the Reel-foot
in Kentucky a century ago, are rollicking
and strongly salted with humor, which
the singer delineated with gusto.
Despite Mr. Thomas’s obvious liking
for songs with the strongly masculine
line, he is able to compress the natural
robustness of his middle register to do
justice to the fragility of such as Duparc’s
“Phidyle.” This was sung with beautiful
phrasing. A flowing legato marked Frank
Bridge’s setting of Heine’s “E’en as a
Lovely Flower,” which has in it some-
thing of the wistfulness of the Schumann,
version.
The ability to emit a staccato whistle
which could hail a taxi quarter of a
mile away proved a great standby to the
baritone in “The Open Road” and again
in the “Largo al Factotum” from “The
Barber of Seville.” The operatic num-
ber, indeed, became more of a classical
comic song—which is, of course, exactly
what it is meant to be.
In the more serious arioso Thomas
showed the fine power and range and
artistry of his voice. “Eri Tu,” from
Verdi’s “Un Baflo In Maschera,” is too
often given its truncated version on the
concert platform. The baritone pre-
faced the aria with the long and dramatic
recitative, forceful, eager, of swelling pro-
portions, yet never ponderous. Among
some notable French songs Cdsar Franck’s
“La Procession,” Ravel’s “Nicolette”
(the story of which the singer told in a
free and easy manner) and D’Erlanger’s
“L’Abbesse” had in them a light piquancy
and no little elegance. Leoni’s “Tally
Ho,” which is a spot of vocal sympathy
for the fox, found Mr. Thomas panting
heavily in simulation of the harassed
quarry. Whether he sings in English,
French, German or Italian, the baritone’s
diction is an object lesson to the student
in clarity—even the word taken on the
half-voice is recognisable in every syllable.
Roy Urseth, who is an admirable and
alert accompanist, played some Chopin,
Rachmaninoff and Brahms with nimble-
ness and delicacy.
"Odd Man Out."
Most of the “manhunt” films that stick
in the memory do so for two reasons —
the character and reasoning of the hunted
and the mounting drama of the hunt and
its inevitable finish. “The Informer,”
“Crime and Punishment,” “On the Night
of the Fire” and even “High Sierra” were
all good because of the dramatic strength
of the chase and the able acting that
went into the portrayal of the fugitive.
McLaglen, Lorre, Ralph Richardson and
Bogart—each of them in vastly different
roles showed their break from or against
society, their isolation and loneliness, their
blind defensive thinking and their final
desperation as the net closed in and left
them with no alternative but to run like
a fox before the hounds.
An otherwise excellent film, “Odd Man
Out” (Sydney Esquire) lacks those two
essential ingredients. James Mason is the
head of an Irish “illegal organisation”
which robs a factory to replenish its
funds ; he kills one of the factory staff
and is badly wounded himself. The bulk
of the film is made up of his attempts to
get back to his friends and their efforts to
rescue him in a police-infested city while
the law relentlessly closes in on all of
them. Mason plays his part quietly and
with some effect, but he is continually
outclassed by practically every actor with
whom he has to share a scene ; the sus-
picion grows, in fact, that, despite a some-
what powerful appearance and person-
ality, his acting ability is limited. The
character he portrays is vague and
shadowy and never emerges from the
story with the almost startling clarity of
the rest of the people in it.
The other criticism of the film is that,
after an excellent opening and build-up,
it drops away from a dramatic manhunt
to a series of character studies of the
people Mason encounters in his atterifpt
to get past the police to the sanctuary of
his hideout. Every study has its place
in the film —with the exception of Robert
Newton’s version of a crazy artist —but
all of them are elaborated and outlined
beyond their importance in relation to
the story. The simple bird-like Shell;
Rosie and Maudie, who pick up Mason in
the street and take him home with hen-
like anxiety to look after him before they
discover his identity; Fencie, the
cautious barman ; Father Tom, the priest;
and the Head*" Constable, cold and im-
personal, yet human —all of them are
lingeringly and thoroughly drawn so that
it is impossible to contemplate them with-
out forgetting that the film is about crime
and punishment, that Mason, the main
character, is a desperate fugitive with a
hornets’ nest of police around his head.
Kathleen Ryan, as the girl who throws
away safety, reason and finally her life
for Mason, turns in the same quietly
sincere acting as the rest of a dozen
minor characters.
Thea Rowe.
In this age of modern “vocalists” it is
pleasant to be able to turn to an artist
like Thea Rowe. In Miss Rowe’s Sydney
recital of British folk songs the youngest
number is a mere century old —the oldest
was probably first strummed on a mam-
moth-rib harp with strings of pteranodor
gut.
For those who like a tartan tie Miss
Rowe becomes as Scotch as a haggis.
She would brings tears of happiness to
that admirable creature’s eye when she
sings “Ye Banks and Braes,” “I Know
Where I’m Going” and a sad little ballad
about Mary Queen of Scots suspending
one of her maid-servants. Another group
of her audience will be mentally tripping
through fields of shamrocks as she sings
“Nell Flaherty’s Drake.” Nell curses the
abductor of her drake in appropriate
Irish, and, as portrayed by Thea, would
shatter any theatre which has no side
buttresses.
For those who come from south of the
Tyne Miss Rowe is excellent with
memories like “Green Broom,” “The
Oak and the Ash” and “King Arthur.”
She is a rare artist who can, by putting
a bonnet, shawl or cap on her head and
a different expression on her face, change
her style, nationality, age and sex so
quickly that one really wonders if it is
the same performer or if the producer,
Breffni Hoskins, has delivered a succes-
sion of remarkable “ring-ins.”
Reviewed Briefly.
Stage and Concert
For his first Melbourne concert,
Rafael Kubelik selected music mainly
of his own country. All but the
string vacated the platform for the
purposes of the Symphony in D
Major of Frantisfek V. Mica, who
was bora in 1694 and surprisingly
anticipated Mozart. There was a clear,
bell-like melodiousness running through
the opus, and a singing quality about
the andante which cropped up again in
the Second Symphony of Dvorak written
200 years laterj though the mood of that
work is tragic. Dvorak’s music is enorm-
ously energetic. So was Kubelik, and the
orchestra was suitably responsive. It was
the first performance in Australia. The
Scherzo Fantastique of Ridky, born in
1897, was another. It was soft, hard,
sentimental and melancholy by turns and
sometimes as wild as the conductor.
At the Films
“Notorious” (Sydney Regent): Ingrid
Bergman, Cary Grant and Claude Rains
tossing off a thriller admirably directed
by Alfred Hitchcock. Miss Bergman,
figuring as the daughter of a Nazi spy,
is co-opted by the American authorities
to do some anti-espionage work for them
in Brazil. Mr. Grant is her fellow-agent
who of course falls for her, and the situa-
tion is further complicated by Miss Berg-
man having, in the course of duty, to
marry the head of Nazi organisation.
Fear, jealousy and suspicion are cleverly
interwoven in a plot that keeps the whole
piece as taut as a violin string.
* * * *
“The Other Love” (Sydney Liberty):
Barbara Stanwyck as a pianiste dying of
consumption who goes to a mountain
sanatorium. David Niven, as her doctor,
falls for her, as does Richard Conte, a
happy-go-lucky young racing driver. The
pianiste’s mental conflict over the two
men and between living quietly in the
sanatorium or finishing her life in one
mad dash of gaiety is well portrayed by
Miss Stanwyck until she passes out in
a lingering death scene, leaving her earthly
remains wearing a smile like a tooth-
paste advertisement.


IN WOOU AND lAT6« U»
WOLFE'S
cJhvmdbz
SCHNAPPS
W 5.185* 12
Wu
SSsj'-
-3s
C&*isf 'rttet't /uA
ifaut Soi&cA sAajtet&f*V '
That afternoon stubble is embarrassing and unnec-
essary. Your morning shave with Gem keeps you
clean all day and right through the evening. Save your
pride and your skin with Gem.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE
WITH
fd
ď
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Results of the Hurdle and the Steeple de-
cided at Caulfield on a bitterly cold afternoon
last Saturday gave little assistance to tnose
trying to narrow down possibilities for the
Grand Nationals. Possibly the best effort seen
in either event was consistent Tente’s close
second with 12.2 in the Steeple.
• • • • •
Though conceding the others anything from
221 b. to 441 b. Tente was made favorite and
gave backers a great run for their money; but,
getting to the front near the half-mile, Krallis
(G. Godfrey), having his first run for more
than 12 months, led over the last fence.
Anchored under his heavy impost Tente didn’t
have much chance in the run to the judge,
but struggled on gamely to be beaten by only
three-parts of a length, while he was six
lengths too good for the third horse, Esquire.
Leicester Square and others blotted their books
thoroughly.
Particularly disappointing efforts in the
Hurdle were those of Colebrook and Bay
David, neither ever looking much of a show.
A fairly comfortable winner of the event was
the six-year-old Friarsdale mare Boondale,
whom J. Taylor had in a winning position
behind General Cunningham and Transit half
a mile from home. The General finished up
leading ’em from behind, but the inexperienced
country horse Transit hung on well to be second
and might have done belter but for boobing
the last jump. Nantilla just pipped Bell Tower
for the minor placing.
Punters showed signs of having learned their
lesson when they neglected Rhythm Queen in
a sprint at Fleminglon recently, but she went
so close to winning on that occasion that they
would have nothing to beat her in Saturday’s
Rosny Plate. As it happened, she beat nothing,
displaying her customary brilliance for a while,
but folding up more rapidly than usual to drop
from first to last within a furlong. Coming
home with a great rattle, the oft-disappointing
Aggressor (K. Mitchell) downed Busybody and
Merasia.
From the same stable as Boondale, Arduli
(E. Preston) in the 12-furlongs Richmond
Handicap marked up her fourth win from five
starts this season. She was the handicapper’s
elect, with 8.13 conceding one pound to Gay-
ness, and won easily, Gayness fading into
third possie behind John Masefield. An in-
terested spectator of the start of this race from
the Caulfield Cup barrier was A.J.C. starter
J. E. Gaxieu, taking an eyeful of the V.A.T.C.’s
experiment with movable barrier stalls, which
were successfully dismantled and removed from
the track in little more than a minute.
The Minook Two-year-old, run in two
divisions, gave punters their only two winning
of the day, a thing which has been
often observed, though evidently not by the
numerous racegoers who insist that two-year-
old form is hard to follow. Moreover, in both
races the second favorite was runner-up, Com-
mend (H. Badger) downing Black Beau and
Dumfries, while New England (J. Gilmore)
had the measure of Sandy Bay and Casson.
The June Welter went to the Lo Zingaro geld-
ing Hellenist (G. Bougoure), returning as good
an effort as he has ever been responsible for
in giving Fine Fettle (9.3) 121 b. and a beating;
Evade was third.
» ♦ * *
Moorefield on Saturday was mainly a per-
fect sunny afternoon, a crowd too big for the
cramped area and a succession of easy wins
in f.a.q. winter events for moderates. They
still haven’t a camera there, but there was no
need for one except in the nose victory of
Dieppe (W. Briscoe) over Kentish Knight in
a division of the Mixed Stakes, the experi-
mental events with special weights allotted
according to performances, apparently very
popular with connections and generally_ work-
ing out quite well, while probably saving the
handicapper a fair amount in aspirin.
There were four Mixed Stakes in the pro-
gramme of eight races, the other two at six
furlongs being won by Lucky Escape (G.
Weate) and Critique (A. Podmore). Beau
Brummell (A. Mulley) landed the one at 10
furlongs. All three are three-year-olds, respec-
tively by Felcrag, Ajax and Beau Vise. Ajax
was represented by another winner, Altarian
(Briscoe), in the six-furlongs two-year-old handi-
cap, in which the Nuffield filly Million showed
up well in second place, with another Ajax
colt, Light Bearer, third.
Altarian had been second in the Breeders’
Plate; year after year the soundest of form to
follow. Oddly, its counterpart for the baby
fillies —the Gimcrack Stakes —is usually as bad
form to follow in subsequent years as the
early colts’ classic is sound.
The rest of Saturday’s bill was a Flying
Handicap, in which the wild outsider Smart
“I tipped that Would happen—the Way he tears at the jumps."
Alick (F. Walker), at the bottom of the weights,
lasted in front long enough to beat the top-
weight, Brazier, with Yankee Lad third; a
mile Moorefield Handicap, in which Codicil
(E. Fordyce) romped home from Double Mint
and Blanmar, to the loud laments of punters,
who had thought Young Veilmond a moral;
and a Welter in which the hot favorite Marlume
—also ridden by Fordyce, and appearing to be
greatly favored by the way Pearl Trader helped
by fits and starts to make the running—easily
beat Thanks America and Blackmore. The
best form shown on the day was that of
Altarian, with Lucky Escape and Beau Brummel
also worth remembering.
* * * *
Jockeys T. Clarke and H. Hughes, both well
known on Sydney tracks (where Hughes has
ridden some good winners), have been given
a spell on the outer for allegedly having grabbed
the reins of the wrong horse during iaccs at
Kembla Grange and Trangie respectively. Clarke
got three years and Hughes six months, which
seems a tidy difference in punishment for appar-
ently similar offences.
For Randwick (before acceptances):--
Two-year-old Novice; The Gaffer, 1; Car-
dinal Color, 2; Bikini, 3. Encourage:
Ellabou, 1; Binnia Lassie, 2; Drummer Boy,
3. Flying: Lord Luck, 1; Gay Monarch, 2;
Vermeil, 3 Tarwyn Park Handicap: April
Pride, 1; Nizam s Ring, 2; Profound, 3. Bel-
more Handicap; Valaire, 1; Kiaree, 2; Codicil,
3. . Highweight: Bundagen, 1; Pearler, 2;
Smart Alick, 3.
* * * *
W. J. Wallace, for 20 years starter for the
metropolitan clubs in Adelaide, has retired
because of ill-health. He learned the job in
Broken Hill 30 years back. His son, D. B.
Wailace, is likely to succeed him.
* * * *
V*?
— two of them at Flemington. She has lost
all form, and is to become a juvenile stud
matron.
.
The All Blacks more than evened their
account with N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday, outplaying the
locals in every department to the resound-
ing tune of 36 to 3. Fullback R. Scott,
as well as giving a fine display in that
possie, had eight shots at goal and kicked
the lot. The inv,—rs have sound reason
for taking a rosy view of next Saturday’s
Test at the same address; but the home
side has been stiffened by-Queenslanders,
who rarely fail to play good, tough foot-
ball, whatever the code, and who, though
twice beaten by the All Blacks, obliged
that excellent team —one of the best of
all time —to put forth its utmost exertions
in both matches.
* * ♦ *
The V.F.L. competition seems to be all
ins and outs; one week your team is in
the “four,” the next week out. After
Saturday, Carlton, Collingwood, Mel-
bourne and Essendon led, with Footscray
fifth —’Scray having been beaten in two
successive games. In a high wind, Carl-
ton downed Fitzroy, 10.8-8.7, ’Wood beat
St. Kilda, 15.20-9.13, “Sowth” beat Mel-
bourne, 9.15-8.11, and Essendon ran all
over Hawthorn, 18.20-6.9. The improv-
ing Geelong side moved up with an
18.11-13.8 win over North Melbourne
and the erratic Footscray could score
only 4.17 to Richmond’s 10.12.
* * * *
Inexcusably late, Bromwich, Pails and
Brown withdrew from the singles in the
Queen’s Club (Eng.) tennis tourna-
ment. They pulled out after the seed-
ings and draw had been made, thoroughly
inconveniencing all concerned. Brom-
wich made it worse by withdrawing after
eliminating a good player. The excuse
that playing on the notoriously poor
Queen’s Club courts would upset their
form sounds very thin in view of the fact
that they did play and won the doubles,
Colin Long, always a model of sports-
manship, played on in the singles, but
was beaten, as was the lady hope, Nancye
Bolton.
* * * *
Von Nida is holding his form in
England, adding to his wins the £stglsoo
“Star” golf tourney, in which he played
excellent golf. He should reach the
British Open in great nick.
=» * * ♦
Having to keep walking to catch up
with N.S.W. flyweight champion Jimmy
Hogg (8.0) in every round at Leichhardt,
Melbournite Spider Tymms (8.1) would
probably have won had he led more often.
Hogg, however, repeatedly beat him to
the punch, and took it on points.
* * * *
Sel Hamilton (10.lx) remained Vic-
torian welter champ, after his Melbourne
Stadium scrap with Jackie Daniels
(10.5 x). It went the full 15 rounds, and
was close enough at the finish to get a
fair section of the crowd on their feet
full of sound and fury. But Hamilton
won it all right.
* Jc * »
Jack Read among the fedders:
Australian featherweight champion Eddie
Miller has fought in London in turn a Scotch-
man, an irishman, an Englishman, and a Welsh-
man, and beaten the lot. it has started veteran
local enthusiasts talking about old-time feather-
weights who headed overseas many years back
in search of fortune.
New Zealander Billy Murphy was the most
successful, knocking out ike O’Neill Weir
(14 rounds) in San Francisco on January 13,
1890, to win the world feather title. New York
“Police Gazette” proprietor Richard K. Fox
presented Murphy with a diamond-studded belt.
Back in Sydney, Murphy was beaten by
Grilfo in the 22nd round of a bout billed for
world featherweight honors, but American fistic
authority refused to recognise the Grilfo-Murphy
contest as a world-title aiiair, and Grilfo was
never given credit for being the best feather-
weight boxer on earth, although he undoubtedly
deserved that distinction.
Since the days of Griffo and Murphy Aus-
tralia has produced many fine featherweights,
Paddy King or Frank Thorn about the best of
them.
Sydney enthusiasts plump for Charlie Frost,
Tommy Jones, Sid Sullivan, Jimmy Hill, Sid
Godfrey and Jackie Green, while Melbournites
maintain that Tim Hegarty, Charlie Simpson,
BiUy Grime or Bert Spargo was the best nine-
stone boxer Australia has had in many decades.
Eddie Miller, born at Blantyre, Scotland, on
May 10, 1917, began boxing in Sydney (where
Jack Dunleavy taught him) 11 years ago.
According to ring statisticians, the average
length of a boxer’s life is limited to 10 years,
so Miller’s career must be nearing its end.
When last heard of he was heading back here.


A im for
Your aim, after a day on the lake, or after any
form of exercise, should be for perfect re-
laxation in the cheery company of Tintara
Gold Label Port. With wines, Tintara Gold
Label Port stands first in its class as the
ideal invigorator and promotor of warmth,
energy, and good health. Make the port of
your choice always Tintara Gold Label Port.
MEET THE CHAMPIONS
_ 'ADELAIDE WINE SHOW-
Champion Prizes. —Florfino Sherry;
Old Castle Riesling; Fine Old
Liqueur Port.
SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW—Cham-
pion Prize —Old Liqueur Port.
First and Second Prize—Old
Brandy. First Prizes —Vintage V
Port; Export Port; Export Mus-
catel; Fine Old Liqueur Port.
V.n
\ ‘
4
TW77
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Old U S Refrain
••There is no nation in the world that
mere is nu nu .
is not discriminating in some y g_
American commerce. Senator K. lajt.
Senator Taft’s voice is no longer that
of a gadfly inside the Capitol at Washing-
ton. He is leader of the dominant party in
Congress a position hardly less respon-
sible than the President’s. The remark on
discrimination wasn’t made in his isola-
tionist days before Pearl Harbor, but last
Friday afternoon. It calls for a few
observations. .
If prosperous merchants in Brobding-
nag wanted to trade with the outside
world, they could expect payment for
their exports either in gold or foreign
goods. There is no other way. If the
world’s gold was already stored in Brob-
dingnag, and the merchants refused to
permit foreign goods because they com-
peted with home products, then other
countries would have no means of pay-
ing Brobdingnag, and would have to ban
her exports. Whereupon the virtuous
Brobdingnagians could cry “discrimina-
tion” • for whilst they imposed a general
restriction against all foreigners, other
countries had made it a special point to
le BL sla ‘ e a S ainst Brobdingnag.
To-day Americans are the economic
giants. They produce more than half the
j n t^e wor y—goo million tons a
year, with Britain next at 170 million and
Russia 160 million. They produce more
than half the steel—Bo million tons
against Britain’s 12 millions and Russia’s
14 millions They are the great “have”
nation, dividing among 140 million people
55 P^ r cent - of tiae income of the whole
dollar dominates the international
scene, avidly sought by comparatively rich
coun tries—Canada, Argentina, Britain —
as we j] as impoverished. During the
war other nations lost property, treasure
an d industrial plant, whilst America
emerged stronger than before. Already
she can satisfy her own people’s needs
and export a great surplus. Her favor-
able balance of trade is at the rate of
£3700 millions a year,
What assistance is she giving others to
repay that gigantic sum, what encourage-
ment to foreign exporters? A couple of
recent examples will serve as answer,
There is the case of Malayan rubber,
Before the war this was indirectly a major
source of dollars for Britain, greater than
any one class of direct U.K. exports.
Last year an American defence com-
mittee decided that although synthetic
rubber was inferior and more costly an
annual production of 150,000 tons should
be maintained for strategic purposes. But
as a result of pressure in various quarters
that figure has been almost trebled. Re-
sult is a bad failure of demand for
Malayan rubber and a fall in its price.
Such amounts as America does purchase
are at bargain rates.
Wool, a second example, is even more
disappointing. The inefficient American
industry, although nursed for years by
subsidies and protective tariffs, still can’t
hold its own. The existing 65 p.c. tariff
costs U.S. taxpayers more than the whole
value of their country’s domestic clip.
Yet a handful of wool-growing lobbyists
—they represent a thousandth part of the
population—have carried a bill to add a
further 50 p.c,, against the full weight of
State Department objections.
Mr. Taft supported the wool tariff. It
may be wondered how he can seriously
harangue about discrimination when his
own actions are forcing the world to
dispense more and more with U.S. pro-
ducts. And how other nations are ex-
pected to gamble on the stability of ap
American trade policy which seems to be
at the disposal of any minority interest.
We cannot solve these enigmas. But
at least Australia’s trade delegates can
negotiate at Geneva without any squeams
on the matter of our ties with Britain.
The jibes against Imperial preference
never sounded so thin as now.
The Government is to fly solo in Qantas
after a few months’ experience as co-
pilot. A first half interest in the operating
co. formerly held by the British concern,
8.0.A.C., was bought earlier this year for
£400,000. Remaining half, now being
purchased from Qantas, Ltd., will cost
£455,000. Henceforth the Government
will have exclusive rights to the name
Qantas, an honored one for over 25 years,
particularly in the north and north-west.
The first “fleet” consisted of two biplanes,
left over from the earlier war, and capable
of 65 m.p.h. cruising. Their counterparts
today are Hythe flying-boats, Lancas-
trians and Constellations. Government
will use Qantas mostly in overseas services
—to U.K., the Far East and New Guinea.
The £455,000 doesn’t cover cash balances
held by Qantas, Ltd., amounting to
£72,629. All told, the combined assets re-
maining to the co. after sale will repre-
sent 345. Bd. per share; last recorded
sale on ’Change was near enough at
345. 3d. Net tangible asset backing was
235. 7d. in the operating co.’s last balance-
sheet, apart from an interest in replace-
ment reserves amounting to 10s. 7d. a
share, and apart from goodwill which
would have figured in the sale. Price
received by Qantas shareholders is not
excessive, but taxpayers —who are really
footing the bill —may wonder what re-
turn they can expect from Government
control.
In its aerial exploits to date the Gov-
ernment has defied not only gravity but
economics and the Constitution. The
duplication of private services which were
already quite adequate has proved any-
thing but profitable to itself, yet it pre-
sumes to meddle in the financial po 1 es
of efficient private operators. V* :n
A.N.A. offered to fly the Sydney-
San Francisco route with a £l5O
single fare, Canberra allowed the
service on condition that the fare was
raised to £2OO. At the referendum of
1937 and again in 1944 electors decided
emphatically that power over air trans-
port should not be vested in the Com-
monwealth. Later the High Court re-
jected the Government’s claim that it
could nationalise inter-State lines. A
spoiling strategy has therefore been
adopted: competition with private cos.,
no matter what the cost, to make their
business unpayable. Naturally it has
produced some effect. Guinea Air-
ways is in a difficult position, though
far from beaten, and the Ansett
business has been partly diverted
to the tourist trade. A.N.A., a pro-
prietary co., remains the great prota-
gonist of free enterprise, and has certainly
not lost strength. The public had a brief
glimpse of this co.’s prowess three years
ago when it was contemplating a merger
with Guinea Airways. On an issued
capital of £400,000 net profit for 1944,
after tax, was stated to be £206,019.
* * * *
Government spokesmen who expanded
on the subject of our “credit standing
abroad” last February, after a conversion
loan in New York was oversubscribed
in one day, will doubtless keep a tactful
silence on the different progress of the
latest conversion. Terms of this one are
better in every way, and the amount is
$7,000,000 less at $38,000,000. Neverthe-
less, about 25 p.c. remained unsold at
the week-end, four days after the open-
ing. Current recession in - American
business may partly explain the differ-
ence. Again, it may be considered that if
the wool tariff bill becomes law our
ability to repay the lojan may be
seriously weakened by the time of the
loan’s maturity (10-2 Q years), since wool
is our chief source of dollars. Fact re-
mains that New York brokers on the eve
of the loan had regarded its terms as
“highly appetising.”
* * * *
Price of gold rose sharply in Toronto
last week in anticipation of a possible
British move in the same direction. The
rumor about Britain was apparently
founded on a special article in London
“Times,” which was given temperate
support in an editorial. But the argu-
ments raised there for a revaluation of
gold were based on the need for adjust-
ments in international currency exchange
rates. They could not be acted upon
immediately, or by Britain alone. The
correspondent maintained that the
system of managed currencies, which has
disguised the “true” exchange rates for
so long, is almost at the end of its effec-
tiveness. The best way to revalue cur-
rencies, he claimed, was to allow them to
exchange freely against gold. Such action
would certainly raise the value of gold,
but whether America will be enthusiastic
towards the idea has yet to be seen.


»
M
ism
m
m-Si
m
m
ma
mmmm
SB3
■M
%
XX*#*
•••:*:**
M
.
sff-- ■:■- ' ■•• ■ :
iiiiii :*.
:*;>X:*:**:
mm
: *:;X-:*
Oi«
.
-as;
:g;s
■Pf !• !’ • . j
iiiiii
-
jiggiSS®
.. .. .. ; ; :
¥• ...
■
mirnm
”■**&&&&£
..... -
;¥:¥:¥•:
a
/M
Portrait os a Craftsman
Thirty-eight years ago, at the age
of 16, Mr. E. Hildebrand who is
portrayed above began his career
at the Dunlop Mills, ..Montague,
Melbourne. Today, Mr. Hildebrand
is one of a team of Dunlop craftsmen
with a wide knowledge of the
application of rubber . . . the skill
and experience of these men is
called on daily for specialized work
associated with the industry.
Dunlop craftsmen, like Mr. Hilde-
brand, develop this practical ability
because they work not only in the
rubber mills but are constantly en-
gaged in field operations ranging from
Mt. Isa to Broken Hill—from New-
castle to Kalgoorlie.
When the picture above was taken
Mr. Hildebrand was busy hand-
tooling a special hard rubber plate
used successfully nowadays for
printing on jute Sacks. This is one
of the many jobs in which these
men specialize and a typical
example of Dunlop craftsmanship.
It is because of the knowledge ac-
quired over years of practical work
by Mr. Hildebrand and his fellow
craftsmen that we confidently issue
this invitation to you: “Consult
the Dunlop Technical Service if you
have any problem involving the use
of rubber.” All you need do is
write to the Dunlop Branch in
vour own State. infill
DUNLOP A*/*.
'
mmmm.
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INC. IN VI C.)
Kelly and Lewis Adjustments
A condition was attached to the
Treasurer’s approval of a new capital
issue by Kelly and Lewis, Ltd. (Vic.).
It was that the board should supply
shareholders with details of another
transaction it had in mind, whereby
the managing director, A. L. Bruns,
would receive 23,333 shares in the
co. in exchange for his holdings in two
of its subsidiaries, which amount to
10,000 shares. The board has now pub-
lished a statement explaining that the
basis of the exchange was worked out by
the co.’s auditors. Mr. Bruns’s holdings
had included one-quarter of the capital
(or 6000 shares) of K. L. Distributors
Pty., Ltd., to which he was appointed
general manager in 1938. In valuing these
shares allowance was made for this sub-
sidiary’s recent sale of goodwill and in-
tangibles to two “associated” tractor cos.
(possibly including the public co., K. L.
Tractors, Ltd.) for £33,996 ; and allow-
ance was also made for the writing up by
£22,000 of K. L. Distributors’ invest-
ments in two fellow-subsidiaries of Kelly
and Lewis (the story intertwines a little).
Mr. Bruns’s one-fourth share in these ad-
justments amounted to £14,000. Further-
more, the shares were valued not only
on their asset; backing but “the
future earning capacity of K. L. Distribu-
tors” which will result from “the great
expansion in recent years of the activities
of Kelly and Lewis, Ltd.”
For some time the board has felt a
desire to lop away all minority holdings
in its offshoots. The present arrange-
ment is noteworthy only because it ex-
emplifies, in a complicated way, this co.’s
fondness for adding premiums to its scrip
in dealings with its own shareholders: a
practice whose wisdom has been ques-
tioned more than once in these columns.
Three years ago, when the market priced
the shares as low as 225., an issue of
42,659 ords. was made at a premium of
6d. each. Ip the latest issue the premium
asked is 3s. each; whilst the Kelly and
Lewis shares (with rights) issued to Mr.
Bruns as replacement were valued at a
premium of 10s.
Mr. Bruns has been with Kelly and
Lewis since 1934. He became general
manager, first of K. L. Distributors in
1938, then of the parent in 1940, and a
director in 1945. Under a service agree-
ment he is to continue as managing direc-
tor of the whole Kelly and Lewis family
for the next three years. Joining him on
the board is L. J. Hartnett, whose nomina-
tion (B. 28/5/’47) has been confirmed.
Most of the public life of Kelly and
Lewis has been devoted to war contracts,
but the co. made a very satisfactory show-
ing last term when it had to switch over
completely to civilian work. Directors
say the current year (ending June 30)
would have been a record but for the
long Victorian hold-up of industry; as
it is, they expect to distribute a final 5
p.c. div., making 8 p.c. for the year on
both prefs. and ords.
:— 0
What will be the effect of the new
Pharmaceutical Bill on patent medicines?
At first, probably very slight: the free
prescriptions will be obtainable only after
payment of a medical fee by persons
not belonging to friendly societies—and
they will be the people immediately
affected. Possible developments, how-
ever, could lead to a more serious chal-
lenge ; the list of free prescriptions does
encroach in the field of some popular
proprietary lines. Advertising campaigns
will no doubt be intensified in fire-power,
with some adjustment in the point of
aim. Readers of the classified advertise-
ments in Sydney newspapers have lately
seen o~e well-known medicine business
offered for sale on what appeared to be
very reasonable terms.
* * * *
Shares of Papuan trading concerns —
W. R. Carpenter, Steamships Trading-
remained immobile during the recent bull
charge in oil shares. One scrip which
did join in the advance (though it is not
necessarily a simple case of cause and
effect) was that of Bitumen and Oil Re-
fineries, Ltd. From 225. 6d. before the
fuss, it rose to 245. at the week-end, and
has since brought 245. 2d. These shares
have commanded a premium from their
birth over 12 months ago, when they were
paid only to 55.; it is the more not-
able because an element of discount
would have to be incorporated in the
price, dividends being hardly a possibility
until after 1948. Chairman expects that
the refinery will be complete*! by the end
of 1947 and that bitumen win be delivered
commercially in the first weeks of 1948.
Original estimated cost of £700,000 has
been somewhat exceeded on account of
inflated prices for American equipment
and because of amendments to the plant’s
design. Built mainly to turn out bitumen
and petrol, the refinery as now designed
e to handle any crude oils and
duct ° e a ran^e petroleum pro-
Sixty per cent, of the capital in Bitu-
men and Oil Refineries, Ltd., is held by
the Australian public; the remainder by
an American firm, California Texas Oil
Co., Ltd., which is itself owned by the
Bahrein Petroleum Co. The Bahrein co,,
again, is jointly owned by two titans —
Texas Oil Co. and Standard Oil of Cali-
fornia. Bitumen and Oil will not engage
in marketing its products; they will
mostly be purchased by Caltex, Ltd.,
which is another subsidiary of California
Texas Oil Co, The latter, in effect, will
sell crude oil to B. and 0., then buy back
the refined product, with prices flexible at
both ends. The project has received Gov-
ernment blessing because some profits
from refining at least will remain in Aus-
tralia ; because California Texas is will-
ing to accept sterling as payment for the
crudes ; and because a saving in the cost
of bituminising State roads is expected.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Notaden”: With the first chills of
winter the pallid cuckoos announced
their arrival in queer, tuneless, upward-
running scales of semitones varied by the
loud, insistent, single note which has!
earned for them the nickname of Brain
Fever Bird. Relatives will follow them
to this S.Q. part before very long, fan-
tailed, black-eared, narrow-billed, bronze,
and those raucous giants the channel-
bills, credited by many an old bushman
with the power of predicting storms and
floods. Only one kind of Australian
cuckoo, the big, handsome pheasant
coucals, lead respectable lives and rfcar
their own youngsters. All the rest are
completely destitute of any pretence of
sex-morality. Male voices are used only
as “wolf calls,” and errant dames sur-
reptitiously plant the results of their
casual flirtations upon decent-living foster-
parents. Sometimes the gay lad will
lend a hand by allowing himself to be
chased away while she replaces one of
the deluded owners’ eggs by one of her
own. But cuckoos have one real virtue —
they are invaluable destroyers of harmful
insects and will eat even the hairiest and
toughest of caterpillars.
* * * *
“8.-A. Ker”: A fellow-sufferer’s sym-
pathy to “Plum” on the discomfort he
suffered through stripping to the buff
when cutting ti-tree scrub (B. 4/6/’47).
As kids we learned early to beware of
“ti-tree itch,” but, rightly or wrongly,
attributed it to some powerful irritant in
the bark. This belief was strengthened
by evidence that the itch seemed to be
more easily contracted when the scrub
was old enough to carry the paper-like
bark. Very prone to flake off, the stuff
had the unpleasant characteristic of find-
ing its way through a sleeve hole or down
a buttonless shirt; a maddening itch fol-
lowed too consistently to be dismissed as
coincidental. Those small grubs that
“Plum” describes don’t sound like pro-
cessional caterpillars; I’ve never known
them to spin webs or drop on threads.
But if they had a horn in the middle of
the head, they could have been young
“spitfires.” These repulsive little crea-
tures generally feed on gum leaves,
clusters of five or six huddling together
and across each other on one leaf. Their
name derives from a vulgar habit of
spitting at anybody within range; and
the secretion emitted by the head-weaving
wrigglers is almost comparable with
“itchy grub” for virulence and sustained
action.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: A mob of kids be-
longing to a fisherman down our way
swear like the bucko mates on Yankee
fore-and-afters the old bloke once used
to sail with. Moreover, the youngest,
aged five, is as bad as any of them.
Old Splack told me he never believes in
correcting them, his philosophy being
when they grow up the kids automatically
give up swearing, as they realise there’s
no novelty in it. “Look at my eldest boy,
Tom, manager of Smith’s farm,” he said ;
“you never hear him cursing now. Just
the same though, if anything goes wrong
his language can set the grass alight! ”
* * * *
“Old Camp”; The peanut-growing in-
dustry (B. 28/5/’47) seems to have
arrived a bit late on the Australian scene.
The time when it would have been a real
national benefit was before the railway
coaches were lit by electricity. The juice
of the peanut was held to be the only
safe illuminant that could endure the jolt-
ing, slushing, overflowing that were the
main characteristics of those old ceiling-
hung lamps. Yet, oddly, although
reckoned to be an insurance against ex-
plosion as a lamp oil, the extract of pea-
nuts used to play an important part as an
actual explosive. Sinking the water-
logged mines of early Ballarat, we were
given rack-a-rock, a peculiar granular
substance enclosed in sausage-shaped
calico bags. Rack-a-rock became explo-
sive only after being soaked in peanut
oil. Handiag it out the boss would give
the instruction “Now, boys, this oil is
dear, so you just dip each sausage in for
as long as you count three.” Somehow
we got the idea that the more oil the
“racker” absorbed the more rock it would
shift, so we used to count very slowly.
The boss’s reaction on noticing how the
stinted ration was going down was to
infer that we either drank the stuff or
used it for hair oil.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: The newchum was chockful of
confidence and said that he’d have no
trouble in working among horses. When
he had brought in the cows and was still
in the saddle the boss thought of his own
early judgment as harsh. But just on
dark, half an hour after he’d been told
to unsaddle, the newchum came along
with the announcement that the horse
he’d been riding had lit out for one of
the distant paddocks, and as it was just
on dark he’d wait until the morning
to bring the nag in. As an after-
thought he mentioned that the saddle —
a new one that the boss had waited six
months for—was still on him. “Y* blasted
goat! ” roared the boss. “1 thought I told
y’ to unsaddle him?” “Well, I was go-
ing to,” explained the new hand, “but
I thought I’d take the bridle off him
first. The poor thing looked as if he
was trying to spit out the nasty bit
thing, and I thought he might be sick
if I didn’t get it out quick!”
♦ * * #
“Esk D.”: Called at George’s hut about
midday and was invited to share a billy
of tea. “But I thought y’d run out of the
stuff,” I said. “Yair, I did, too, till I
remembered about a packet in the cup-
board that an old mate left on one of
his visits,” George said. “ ’Course, it’s
“Funny, I thought I had a butt somewhere."
old as the hills, but there’s still a bit o’
flavor in it. I had me first billy of it this
mornin’.” I tasted the brew; then my
mind whizzed back to barefoot days, and
being taken by the scruff of the neck in
turn with the others on Saturday morn-
ings. “This ain’t real tea,” I said.
“Gripes, it is, though,” George said. “The
brand’s not the same as y’ git these days
at the store an’ it’s got the Chinee sort o’
flavor, but Senna’ll do me all right when
I c’n git it.”
**■ * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Hanko’s” question
“What particular bird is most numerous
in Australia?” (B. 21/5/’47) may pro-
duce some unexpected data. I shouldn’t
be surprised to find the palm awarded to
some flier inhabiting only a small corner
of the continent and unknown to most
amateur naturalists. Towards the end of
the last century Matthew Flinders reported
a flock, in Bass Strait, which he estimated
at 132 million birds. The inhabitants of
Cape Barren Island derive a living from
the export of these birds, but how many
Australians have seen a mutton bird
alive?
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Cables report that a
“huge eagle” hit a London-bound airliner
and forced it back to Calcutta. That
would be no eagle, but a pariah kite,
swarms of which wheel above city and
village in the lands where hygiene and
sanitation are largely left to them. Our
chaps who flew R.A.F. Liberators from
Bengal to the Burma Railway will re-
member those kites with a shudder. The
usual trip was to anywhere between
Toungoo and Moulmein —the equivalent
of London to Moscow and back —and
all hands lined up to see the big fellows
get off with their staggering loads. They
always seemed to make it in the last few
yards of runway; but that wasn’t the
end of their worries, for the next 500-odd
feet of climb was spent dodging kites.
Coming back it was much the same—
sometimes worse; one weary navigator
standing between the pilots was killed
when a bird crashed through the perspex.
No similar menace exists here. I’ve seen
a Mitchell bomber bring back a seagull,
jammed into the dent made where the
mainplane struck it, and a Wirraway once
staggered home with a black duck roast-
ing in the works ; but both aircraft had
been stunting at low level. Our eagles are
solitary, or at most in pairs, on the wing,
and a wedgetail at about 3000 feet with,
say, the Grampians for a background is a
noble sight; but pilots in Australia don’t
have to weave through flocks of them.
Incidentally, the kite mentioned (Milvus
migrans) already occurs here ; it is the
fowl some misguided member of the
Council recently wanted to “introduce”
from Asia for scavenger duty.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: Fastest craft in the
North-west Pacific are Manus outriggers.
One of these has been clocked at 17
knots, and with paddles thrust deep as
lee-boards they can sail to within two
points of the wind. But largest and most
seaworthy are those of Tami Island
(Dampier Straits). Four-masted two-
deckers sail out pn the first of the north-
west monsoonal winds loaded with
pottery and carved woodwork. They
trade right round the horn of Papua and
are away until the south-east trades re-
turn six months later. Then, laden with
pigs, they come home. Many craft are
sold on the voyage—for three pigs;
one each for hull, outrigger and super-
structure. This is custom, for there is no
comparison in the amount of work or
material put into each part. One of their
finest feats was the transport of cattle
from Finschhafen to Rooke Island. Fifty
beasts, one lashed to er.Ch canoe, were
delivered without loss in spite of bad
weather.
* * * *
“Mug”: Like “Zake” (B. 28/5/’47) I,
too, didn’t believe a snake could be en-
ticed from a temporary refuge by music
—until I went to work for Dad Parslow.
We’d hardly got in for dinner one day
when Mrs. Parslow started yelling about
a snake she’d seen disappear between the
stones of the kitchen fireplace. Seeing
she wouldn’t allow a rock of her chimney
to be moved, and kept following Dad
around reminding him there’d be no more
meals till he’d belted Joe to extinction,
things looked tough. Then the old bloke
hit on the remedy of musical extraction.
He shifted the wireless set into the
kitchen near the stove and set her going,
Hour after hour swing bands worked on
the reptile, and Dad was prodded up
many times during the night to alter the
station or attend the volume. Three days
later a wild-eyed and seemingly demented
Joe tore from the fireplace and streaked
for the horizon. I’ve Dad’s honest word
for it. Wasn’t there myself; I’d beaten
Joe to it by two days.
** J # »
“E. 2”: Dan was cutting across the
hill paddock when the staghound and
the blue dog put up a fox in the bracken
and treed him in a tall, dry stump. There
was no other sanctuary for a quarter-
mile and the dogs, having a good view
of their quarry lying in the hollow, were
in ecstasies of excitement. Dan had lost
foxes before by going home for a gun
and wasn’t going to be caught again ; he
judged the house on the flat below to
be within yelling distance and let fly.
“Hoy! Jack!” he bellowed. “Bring y’r
rifle!” At the third try he was gratified
to see the door open and a man come out
and stand on the side verandah,
“Wha-a-at?” drifted the voice to him.
“Bring y’r rifle,” Dan yelled. “Bring
wha-at?” came the reply, very faint.
“Ri-fle!” shouted Dan. “I’m tryin’ t
git a fox in a tree.” The figure turned
came out and headed up the pad-
dock at a run. A while later Jack came
puffing over the rise; instead of a rifle
he had a book in his hand. “Where s the
rifle?” Dan growled. “I’ve got a fox in
this bit of a tree.” “R-rifle? Fox?
Jack stammered. “But I thought y’ sung
out fr the Bible ’cause y’ was dyin’
pinned under a tree.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Let Mat tell it:
“Struck one o’ them fresh-air cranks up
in Noo South once. I’m on the train
up t’ Glen Innes an’ it’s cold enough t’
make a Tasmanian shiver. This bloke,
who ain’t wearin’ a overcoat, insists on
havin’ the windows open an’ I nilly had
t’ pass him one before he’ll leave ’em
closed. He sits there, moanin’ about it
bein’ stuffy an’ hintin’ about people
scared of a bit o’ fresh air, an’ it looks
like I might have t’ dong him anyhow.
Then the other three people in the com-
partment get out —Guyra, I think it was
■—an’ I find another compartment an’ tell
him he can push the roof off if he likes.
1 take a look at him a bit later an’
sure enough he’s sittin’ in there with the
window wide an’ a blast from the Pole
rustlin’ in. He grins an’ waves t’ me an’
flexes himself an’ says, ‘Ar, this is the
stuff.’ I wrap me overcoat round me an’
leave him. We get t’ Glen Innes an’ I
makes for the pub an’ gets a room an’,
strike me blue if me room-mate ain’t his
nibs. I’d had a few rums downstairs an’
when I go up there he is, just gettin’
undressed. The cow was wearin’ a double
issue o’ them woolly singlets with long
sleeves an’ two pair of long underpants.
That’s when I did dong him.”
* * * . *
“M.U.R.”: If “B. A. Ker” (B.
11/6/’47) wants to see a heart that will
pulsate for minutes after removal from
the body, let him clean a Murray cod
as soon as he catches it. He’ll nearly
have time to cook the fish before its
heart stops beating.
* * * *
“Plum” : The accepted designs for new
Australian stamps have come in for
some flippant criticism on political
grounds, owing to the inclusion of Jack
Lang’s bull and a black cockatoo pre-
sumably muttering “Curse the Press.”
Now there is a more serious cause for
complaint, this time about the design
showing a timber worker cutting a scarf
in a tree, using a rope sling and spiked
boots to support himself on the trunk.
A correspondent in the philat'elic press
avers that a similar illustration appeared
on the dust jacket of Lumber, a book
published in Chicago in 1941. It does, in
fact, represent the method used in Canada
and the U.S.A., but not in Australia,
where the springboard or “jigger” is the
rule. The rope and spiked-boot method
of climbing is used in Tasmania for
topping timber to be cut for pulp mills,
and the artist who submitted the disputed
design may have used a photograph
taken there and inserted a scarf in the
trunk without realising it was out of
place. The suggestion now is that the de-
sign, since it is intended to publicise Aus-
tralia, should be altered to show two
axemen with springboards in the charac-
teristic Australian fashion of felling tall
timber.
He * * *
“M 8”: This is purely a request for
the truth. “S. Gums” (B. 11/6/’47) says
that if you carry the long line of the
Southern Cross 4i times beyond the
“tail” you’ll have due south, no matter
what arc the Cross is in. I’ve always
believed it was 3i times, which is prob-
ably near enough, anyhow.
He * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: The most un-
comfortable ride I know on a quiet horse
is freighting the first emu eggs of the
season back to the homestead cook. One
cold June evening on a Lower Murray
River station, from a nest 14 eggs strong,
I strapped four on the pommel in my
overcoat-cwm-valise, put three in the
saddle pouch and placed one in each
trouser pocket. Then, mounting, I
gathered up the remaining five from a
stump and put them in my shirt back
and front. The old mare, of course,
knew something was up—anyway those
14 eggs weighed 191 b.—and all the 10
miles home she started her antics and
kept trying to break into a canter. Cold
as a frog, unable to smoke, and ham-
pered because my shirt kept trying to
come up above the belt, I had the
added trouble of gates. It meant man-
oeuvring the old moke to deposit the
spoils on posts before dismounting. That
was a ride to remember, though well
worth it. Besides collecting the usual
jackpot—a bob in from all hands for the
first emu fruit of the year—we lived on
omelettes, brownies and custards. It
also put me right with the babbler —
until the next night I was late home for
tea without anything to show for it.
THE MOUNTAINS.
My home is in the mountains. Endlessly there
Green gum-tops quiver in the singing air
And depthless springs gush up and tumble down
Towards the river flats past fields wind-blown.
Beautiful there the wattles burn to gold
For winter’s cavalcade of color and cold;
There kurrajongs contest supremacy
With winds that roar in anger out to sea.
In valleys’ 1 intimate gloom, on beaten heights
In the sun’s glory, by star-crowded nights
And mountain-menaced days, my heart can feel
The warmth Of earth whose power makes me
reel.
My home is in the mountains. Though I be
Ten thousand miles away my eyes will see
Their solemn silhouettes, and - mountain-wind
And mountain-song will echo down my mind.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID H. ROWBOTHAM.


“Frank Mauri”: New to the country,
a visitor to New Guinea insisted on
decorating the walls of his quarters with
artistic nudes. But they didn’t last long.
Returning unexpected one morning he
found his room filled with natives, and
his newly-acquired personal boy proudly
declaiming: “Altogether missus belong
master belong me!”
# * * *
“Betcha”: Wonder where “The 0.D.”
gets his idea that “no sensible sheep nurse
takes a dog with him when inspecting
lambing ewes” (B. 21/5/’47). One
wouldn’t put an unbroken dog on such
a job, but with the possible exception
of the kind of Merino country where it
takes ten thousand or so acres to breed a
thousand lambs, an old dog that knows
the ropes is indispensable. He follows
closely at heel as his boss goes among
the sheep, but rarely does a morning pass
without his having, time after time, to
slip round and hold a bunch till
the boss catches a particular ewe. Maybe
it’s a ewe with lambing trouble, or one
with a starving youngster; or maybe
there’s an abandoned lamb, and the sheep
nurse spots the deserter and wants her
caught for yarding with her offspring.
The common procedure in this East
Gippsland district is to lamb down on
natural-pastured slopes, the ewes as they
lamb down being urged to the clover flats.
The dogs soon learn the job, and, com-
ing on a lamb too young to travel, wait
expectantly' for the “Leave her” that
starts them on slowly to the next group.
Most sheep dogs dislike lambing season,
and have a colossal contempt for young
lambs that break every rule of the drov-
ing game, but they are never allowed off
from those daily trips round the lambing
ewes.
* * * ♦
“C.E.”: Harry and Bob had been
“working” for old Martin about a fort-
night. “Want t’ see the proper way t’ put
up a fence, do y’?” Bob remarked geni-
ally, as the stranger stopped and eyed off
their job. “Awright, but” He paused
thoughtfully. “Hey, ain’t I seen you be-
fore somewhere?” The newcomer
looked up, surprised. “Y’r phiz seems
sort o’ familiar,” Bob went on, “though
it ain’t likely we’ve met. Me ’n’ Harry’s
only bin in the districk three or four
weeks. Work for the ol’ gefezer up on the
hill there. Funny old coot. Treats us
awright, but” Bob caught sight of
the dog that had followed the newcomer.
He started, gulped, then edged off behind
Harry, to pick up a shovel he didn’t
want. “It’s the boss,” he whispered warn-
ingly, as he straightened behind his off-
sider’s ear. “He’s had a shave!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”'.* Among the new settlers
on the Ouyen-Murrayville line (Vic.) was
Hartley, a young Englishman who’d come
out for his health after a bad time
with the British Army in 1914-18.
Speech and manners reeked
of English private schools
and manorial halls, but he
was adaptable, and though he
continued to amuse the wild
Australians battling in the
scrub most of them loved him.
Presently he had a few acres
cleared and a four-roomed
“hut” of Murray pine on his
block and was as proud of the
latter as ever Norman knight
of captured Saxon hall. When
it was finished and furnished
he held a house-warming
party, for bucks only, and to
the astonishment and awe of
his guests greeted them in full
evening rig. They still talk
about that party. It broke up
about 3 a.m. and the cockies and their
sons and their hired hands headed over
the sandhills and through the scrub for
home. Old Mac turned at his door to
survey the greying east and let out a yell
at the red pillar against the west. Murray
pine bums like tinder and when Mac
and the rest came bursting through the
scrub there was only the roof curling
atop the blazing wreck. Their erstwhile
host, his white tie and tails somewhat
bedraggled, sat on a box among a few
salvaged possessions, holding a frying-
pan over some coals. When he saw them
he reached into the box, brought out
eggs and cracked them into the pan.
“You’ll take an egg, I trust, gentlemen,”
he said. “Forgive me, I hadn’t antici-
pated guests for—for” —— But then he
stood up suddenly and turned his face
away. Old Mac took him home. They
held a working bee and built him a new
place, but he sold out within the year
and vanished from their ken.
“Zake”: Struck a chap who, re-roofing
his outback hut with stringybark, nailed
the sheets on with the sap side exposed
“These apples are reel juicy, missus—straight from the Garden of Eden!”
to the elements. When I expressed sur-
prise he took me to see a lean-to roofed
with “stringy.” The bark roof had a hard,
almost polished surface and had been up
for several years. The owner explained
that when the sheets were put sap side
down the rain seeped through the various
layers and they quickly rotted.
jj* jj*
“Wippegong”: No, “Sou’-west” (B.
4/ 6/ ’47), I haven’t seen two dry limbs
actually start a fire, but I still believe it
could happen. Flying supplies into the
Irrawaddy Valley from Akyab we were
often low enough over the Arakan Hills
—they’re much higher than Kosciusko —
to get a pretty good idea of the vegeta-
tion, and were puzzled by black, bumt-
out patches at levels far above any habi-
tation. Inquiries from the locals drew
the information that in the hot pre-
monsoon weather some types of bamboo
seed ripen and die and the mounting
winds rub them together and start fires.
These never spread far—two to ten acres
seemed the average—for even in the
“dry” the jungle at that altitude is too
lush to carry a fire far. But after flying
rice to Lashio we took it by road to
Namtu and had the opportunity to in-
spect those dry bamboos. They were
there aplenty, and when rubbing in the
breeze were mighty hot to the touch,
“X.E.D.”: Sam’s story: “Fegan had
his eyes on Mooney’s farm. Mooney
wouldn’t sell, an’ there was a feud. Fegan
had a crop of barley in a paddick joinin’
Mooney’s, where he used t’ run his herd
of milkers f’r an hour or two’s green
pickin’ in the mornin’s. The sight of
Mooney shiftin’ a mob of steers t’ the
next paddick an’ fixin’ the dividin’ fence,
which he never did before without an
argument first with him, set Fegan think-
in’ on suspicious lines. He let it go f’r
"I've arranged for that tanker to come again.”
nearly a week an’ then hopped out after
tea one night, found the steers in the
barley, as he expected, an’ raced ’em orf
t’ the pound. Mooney hadn’t gone t’
bed, either. One of his boys, goin’ round
the rabbit-traps, rushed in t’ tell what was
happenin’. So Mooney made his way
t’ another of Fegan’s paddicks, quietly
rounded up the milkers an’ set out slowly
f’r the pound along the back road. The
poundkeeper went crook at bein’ woke
after midnight, but quietened after a while
when he saw who it was an’ had time t’
pocket a couple of notes. Fegan never got
over seein’ Mooney’s steers in their own
paddick next mornin’ and a delighted howl
went round the districk when he had t’
collect his milkers from the pound yard.”
“Lub”: Charlie and the rabbiter were
camped in a deserted selection hut at
Fossicker’s Gully, a matter of five miles
from the township by bush track that
wound in horseshoe fashion around a
mountain. Short-cut by way of the gorge
was less than two miles, but over such a
rough course that only the foolhardy
would use it even in broad daylight. Still,
this didn’t prevent Charlie from trying
it one night on his way home from the
pub. Probably if the night had been
brighter than fitful patches of moonlight
through heavy clouds, Charlie would
have tried to plot a course through the
rocky cliffs and ledges and come to
grief, but trusting to luck and a fuddled
sense of direction he got safely to the
swampy flats on the other side. There,
sloshing ankle-deep through mud, he be-
came aware of a dark and monstrous
shape bearing down on him. Appropri-
ately, an eerie, hollow booming sounded.
“It’sh bunyip,” Charlie told himself. “I’ll
fixsh whole team o’ bunyipsh ri’ now.”
Whereupon, arms flailing, he launched
himself at the shape. Sharp talons ripped
at his face; then he was wrapped in a
firm embrace and his screams faded out.
The rabbiter had a search party out next
day and it wasn’t till 4 p.m. that they
found the “body”—groaning feebly and
profanely from the middle of a black-
berry clump. There was no sign of that
other culprit the frogmouth owl, that had
ghosted the “bunyip’s” call.
* * * *
“Bo”: The party of hikers, uncertain
of their way, had heard sounds of ham-
mering, They turned in the direction and
soon came upon a long, gaunt agricul-
turist in the act of hammering staples into
the posts of a wire. fence. “Could you
tell us how far it is to Brumby?” one
of them asked. The hammerer paused,
let his gaze rove over each of the party in
turn, thought hard as he stroked his long
walrus moustache and then said, “Aw,
it’d be about seven mile be road.” The
questioner registered his dismay. “Any
shorter way?” “Yair.” “Which way?”
“Y* skirt that stand o’ gums on y’r right
an’ keep goin’ straight on. Save y’ about
a mile. I’d say,” The party thankfed him
and made off in the given direction.
About five miles further on they struck
a rabbit-trapper, and asked him how far
it was to Brumby, He thought it would
be “about 12 miles,” and added, “but
y’re makin’ in the wrong direction.” Then
they told him about the man who had
told them of the short cut, and he pointed
ahead to where a bluff rose almost sheer
for about a hundred feet. “Brumby’s
only about a mile or so over the other
side o’ that,” he explained. “Old Jim, the
bloke you asked, got over it once with
ropes, about 50 years ago. They reckon
he’s the on’y one that’s done it.” The
party was about four miles on the way
back when they received a hail from a
walrus-moustached figure making across
a near-by ridge. “I meant to tell y’,” he
called, “y’d want a good strong rope with
y’ if y’ were goin’ to Brumby be the
Bluff track!”
* *
“Jock”: “Betcha” (B. 14/5/’47) and
“Atrax” must live in country having
different varieties of trees judging by their
varied arguments on soil erosion. In our
15in. rainfall country there is erosion
trouble in the sandy parts. On the sand
hills grow low mallee scrub with surface
roots and a stunted pine which roots
downwards. The old hands grub the
mallee for two reasons —the roots are
near the surface, and if a little
sand moves they make good cover
for the rabbit, rendering the digging
of him out difficult. Also, the
low branches and ( the surface roots
prevent grass growing under the trees,
and grass is of great importance in arrest-
ing sand movement. Sheep like camping
under the mallee shade, and you don’t
want their small feet cutting up the sand-
hills more than necessary. The pine is
allowed to remain on the sand, as it has
little surface root, and its upright growth
means a continuous grass carpet over the
hill. The sand control lies in planting
ryecorn, working right up to the bases
of the pines. Ryecom will grow two feet
where wheat will grow two inches, and in
a hard year is all right for stock if fed on
a dry day—if the air is moist it chews like
old ram chops. In the wetter clay country I
am with “Atrax”; the argument is
settled by seeing small creeks cut out their
banks when the trees are removed,
* * *
“Chuck”: Old Charlie dropped in on
Sam. “Want t’ borrer a coupla hunters
an’ that ol’ broke-down sheep-dog o’
yours, Sam,” he informed. “Got a few
rabbits gettin’ in an’ want t’ clean ’em
up.” “Better take the greyhounds, then,”
suggested Sam. “They’re beauts.” “No,
cripes, no,” came Charlie’s protest.
“They’d be too quick. Ju§’ the hunters.”
“Righto. I’m going your way,” nodded
Sam. “I’ll bring ’em.” Entering Charlie’s
rough selection, the hunters put up a
bunny. “Into ’im,” bawled the old
bloke, belting his moke into a laboring
canter to keep the chase in sight. “Steady,
there! Come orf. Aw, blast it,” he
yelled, “now they gorn ’n’ caught it.” He
snatched up the bunny. “Yair, just’s I
thought,” he mourned, “Dead’s a Sun-
day-school picnic. Wouldn’t it!” Sam
took him in doubtfully and decided to
stick around. A bit later another rabbit
was discovered, and to Charlie’s bellow-
ing accompaniment the chase lasted until
the quarry dived into a small opening
under a root. With a chuckle Chas,
smashed in the refuge. “Yair, this bloke’ll
know a thing or two,” he crowed, lifting
tfie bunny high for safety. “Hold the
mongs, Sam, an’ we’ll give him another
go. No good catchin’ an odd rabbit,” he
answered Sam’s look, “ ’less y’ break up
their hidin’ places. Yair, an’ I’m hanged
if I c’n find the dashed holes.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: “Maluka”
questions “N7Y’s” horsetailer for his
mob of 30 belled mokes (B. 7/5/’47).
Allowing seven or eight to every 50
horsfes, “M,” says it adds up to quite a
droving plant. Maybe it does, but a
couple of decades ago around Julia Creek
(N.Q.) it wasn’t so unusual. Mick Sulli-
van, who lifted the last lot of Toorak
ewes for agistment in the Gulf in the
1926 drought, had 220 horses, besides
mules to pull the wagonette; and many
Gulf-country cattle drovers of the day
were not far behind Mick in numbers of
“road” horses. On the way north with
the ewes all Sullivan’s men but one left
him. Mick and his solitary shepherd
used to start off of a morning together
with the sheep, then the boss would re-
turn to pack up camp and bring on the
horses. Mick drove the equine mob be-
fore him from the mule-drawn wagonette.
On coming abreast with the sheep Mick
would bump over thfe downs in the
wagonette and turn one wing in, before
going on to hobble out and bell a few
of the horses on the night-camp site.
Mounted on a fresh horse he would then
return to assist in mustering the ewes on
dinner camp. When eventually the sheep
were in the brake we would spend an
hour in the dark hobbling more horses.
I remember how many horses he had.
I was his lone offsider —jackeroo, and
couldn’t leave!
COMPLIMENT TO THE YOUNG.
N.S.W.
Left on the rail
By leaping Time,
We watch new minds
Chase rhythm and rhyme;
And there we see
Youth fling, afar,
Its seines of thought,
And net a star.
But we still plait
The rhythms were ours,
When we, then young,
Wrote “swains” and “bowers.”
MARY GILMORE.


How Small is One
pi
.... •••''
*
V
■ -. .
%
'
THE JOHMSSO
I.IMIT GAUGE
Si
5/q
• The special alloy irons and steels used In the manufacture of
Ronaldson-Tippett Engines are accurately machined by highly
skilled men who use specially designed jigs and limit gauges,
the latter being accurate to within one half of one thousandth
of an inch. In the case of vital parts, limits up to one-tenth of
one thousandth of an inch are used. All limit gauges are set
and held within their limits by means of Johansson Slip Gauges
and the interchangeability and standardization of all components
is assured. A rigid system of inspection by specialists is entailed
before parts are passed on to the sub-assembly department and
final assembly on the production line. Every step in manufac-
ture contributes to the sterling quality apparent in EVERY
unit bearing the Ronaldson-Tippett name.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
* S 3 N I 3 N 3 *
iiiddU-HDSOTtf NOH
THE
TOP
PRICE
warranted for
your wool is assured when you're with A.M.L. & F.
because it leads in its standards of valuing, displaying,
lotting and auctioneering; because it has the confidence
of buyers as well as its clients.
Consign YOUR next clip to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
line, in England, 1863 >
4 Bligh Street. Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 7.22.17
IS THE REGISTERED BRAND OF
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Established 1898 )
Farm Qates • “Ringlock” Fence • Wrought Iron Work
Prefabricated Farm Buildings • Ornamental Qates and Fences
Playground Equipment • Stock Transports • Tubular Equipment
for Dairy Sheds • Chain Wire Machinery and Window Quards
Tennis Court Enclosures • F lywire • Steel Scaffolding.
MELBOURNE r SYDNEY - ADELAIDE - PERTH
CGB/6 -
THE WAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Bungaree”: They) got away to a bad
start. A number of excuses were made
for the poor sales of British breeds a
couple of days earlier; some complained
that they were held too soon after the
judging, and that several buyers did not
arrive until they were over. It was also
suggested that the high prices for Merino
wools were causing a swing from fat-
lambs to wool-growing.
It was generally anticipated that the
high wool prices and taxation would
make plenty of money available for the
purchase of rams, and the lifeless demand
on the opening day came as a shock to
all concerned. The sheep were particu-
larly good this year, and there seems to
be no adequate reason for the poor open-
ing market.
On the second day the market improved
considerably, and this improvement con-
tinued steadily to the end of the sales.
Top price on the opening day was 500gns.
for a Mungadal ram. Many sheep were
passed in where prices failed to reach
owners’ reserves, but at the same time
buyers profited where owners were pre-
pared to meet the market. On general
observations throughout the sales, this
latter policy paid dividends.
Top price was HOOgns. for Ajax,
a lengthy big-framed ram bred by
Uardry. He carried more develop-
ment than the average, but not for
a top stud ram. On the whole, the sheep
were plainer-bodied than they have been
for many years. Burrabogie and Wah-
woon, who are the chief exponents of
heavy development, still retained that
position, but on a more modified
standard.
Next best price was 1075gns. for a
beautiful Bundemar ram. The demand
for sheep from this well-known stud was
very keen throughout the sales, even on
the bleak opening day. They had a
splendid team.
Haddon Rigs were in keen demand and
averaged well, in spite of a lot of rams
going cheaply on the first day. Their
top price of lOOOgns., paid by Yarrawin,
was not far behind the best price of the
sales, and was the third to reach four
figures. Other good sales were made at
SOOgns., 600gns., 525gns. and.SOOgns,
South Australian studs Koonoona,
North Bungaree, Collinsville, Stradbroke,
Belcunda, Bungaree and Catarpo, with
strong to extra-strong wool types, were,
on the whole, a shade finer than usual.
Koonoona rams brought highest prices—
410gns., 300gns. and 250gns. Some of the
flock rams from the less well-known
studs were sold at prices that could barely
have covered expenses. -
Only two fine-wool studs were repre-
sented, and prices reflected the demand
for spinners wools. Merryville, fresh from
its show triumphs, had its best sale for
many years and Eshcol also got good
prices.
Boonoke’s top price was 700gns. for
a special stud ram purchased by Dal-
keith. There was a draft of polled Merino
rams ; Mungadal sold two, but Boonoke
disposed of 13 at an average of 29gns.,
top price being 60gns.
The Mungadal rams had slight scurrs
in place in horns, but the Boonokes had
decided hollows in the skull where the
“Joe should get time and a half for this!”
horns should have befen. Judging by the
interest taken in them polls will be a
regular feature of future sales.
At present their quality is much on a
par with the po n e d Shorthorns and Here-
fords 6f 1Q years ag0 _ t fl ey owe t heir
existence t 0 the f act that they are horn-
less It wi n ta k e quite a few generations
to bring them anywhere near the quality
today’s Merino stud standards.
Corjiedales did not sell as well as ex-
pected, and a number of potential high-
pr i ce d rams failed to materialise because
of lack of competition. Wellwood once
again topped the market with 325gn5.,
and another ram from the same stud
brought 275gns, Two Redbank rams
brought 280gns. and 210gns. respectively.
Soy Beans.
“J. D. Rose”; Despite some pessimism
soy beans have been successfully grown
and harvested on the N.S.W. New Eng-
land this season, though unfavorable
weather prevailed throughout. Much of
the success is due to the untiring
efforts of Don Shand, who visited
America and returned with .seed of
several varieties and conducted trials on
his property at Armidale, whence came
three suitable varieties: Lincoln, Dun-
field and Richland.
Crops were planted in October and
November by farmers who had gained
experience in growing navy beans during
World War 11, Seed was treated with
suitable inoculum provided at low cost
by N.S.W. Agricultural Department to
promote the growth of symbiotic bac-
teria, which form as nodules on the roots
of the plants and extract nitrogen from
the air.
Growth was slow during early stages,
though a good root system was pro-
duced, Later, when the minute flowers
were forming, drought conditions made
farmers doubt whether the blooms would
set. Even when weeds were withering on
ground which resembled a dust heap the
soy plants battled on. flood rains
swept the district and the cultivations
were almost reduced to bogs. Weeds now
flourished owing to inability to cultivate
the heavy soil. Against all these odds
the soy beans proved their worth. Re-
cent harvestings have shown that they
can stand up to adverse weather condi-
tions as well as most crops. In fact,
where navy beans became stained in the
pods owing to too much rain soy beans,
because of their upright habit of growth,
produced good-quality unstained beans.
Crops were successfully harvested with
a tractor-drawn cutter, then raked into
windrows with a side-delivery rake
ready for the thresher. Where weeds were
evident farmers found it paid best to
have the crop hand-pulled. Some crops
yielded 10 to 12 bushels per acre. Un-
fortunately, crops have been light, and
as seed is necessary for next season’s
crop, only a small proportion of these
beans will be available for manufacture.
Dairy Cleanliness.
“Prof”: Main thing is to have plenty
of water. We use about 6gals. cold and
4gals. of boiling water every day to wash
a two-stand milking plant and separator.
A common mistake is to wash milky
separator or machine parts in boiling
water. This causes albumen and similar
substances in the milk to harden and cake
on the surfaces.
For machine parts rinse by drawing
cold water through the teat cups, then set
to and scrub them with brushes in hot
soda solution. Caustic soda, and to a
lesser extent washing soda, effectively re-
move the fats which are otherwise almost
impossible to move even with boiling
water. Separator parts, being metallic,
can be scrubbed clean in warm water,
best used about 100 deg. F., but no
hotter, then rinsed with clean boiling
water.
The last job is to sterilise all parts that
come into contact with milk. This can
be done either with steam or by using
one of the chemical sterilisers on the
market. The chemical sterilisers, usually
of the hypochloride type, are very eco-
nomical and easy to use, and are a much
better proposition than using steam.
Horsemanship.
“Milton”: No man is “born to the
saddle” ; all must learn to ride, to under-
stand horses, to develop a seat and a
touch on the reins. Taking over the
horse from “E.H.S.” (B. 30/4/’47), the
pupil mounts on the nearside by gather-
ing reins firmly looped in left hand,
gripping the mane about halfway be-
tween pommel and bit—just feeling a
tautness on bit —the nearside rein being
slightly tighter than the offside so that
horse comes towards rider if moving,
thus avoiding a likely sit-down or stirrup
entanglement.
Facing the tail and pressing his body
against horse’s shoulder, the learner takes
stirrup in right hand, places left foot in it
and, transferring hand to pommel, swings
into the saddle, purchasing power com-
ing from pressure of leg on shoulder.
Hopping around with one foot in stirrup
trying to clamber aboard is dangerous, the
same applies to gripping back of saddle
when mounting.
Ride with looped reins in left hand
taut enough to feel the horse on the bit.
This is the natural position for saddle
work, and is not tiring ; a twist of the
wrist, sloping of arm and sway of the
body guides the horse ; elbows close to
rider’s sides, legs close to horse’s sides.
A rein in each hand is suitable only for
the plough-horse, race-horse and boat-
steering.
Curb bits, martingales and bearing
reins are cruel devices; develop your
arms to hold the horse and acquire a firm
seat in the saddle. Be able to clear com-
fortably the pommel when standing up
in stirrups, but avoid shortness, except for
race riding, as this is tiring and gives the
horse a sore back.
Using Gelignite.
“Mt. Carbine”: Pardon me, but I’ve
had over 40 years’ experience on mining
fields and can’t resist butting in (B.


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b. ; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney,
ar
c*
<UI
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SEUF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS, AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
WARNING!
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fides
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GBABANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not he misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land),
Wool worths Bldgs., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
578 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney & Co.,
Ltd.,-441 Murray St. Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
ton and Hobart.
HYGEIA
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS;
“ If you ask me,'shortages hit hardest >
at the man who wants the best ”
fd
When you find it Hard to come by some
WHITE HORSE WHISKY, reflect that its
fine-liqueur quality was never finer than now.
C^nogaS
j FOR RABBIT DESTRUCTION
Don’t be satisfied with pruning your Rabbits by trapping.
Use a proven Killer and EXTERMINATE ALL RABBITS.
Cyanogas is obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PIT*, LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
■vT
THE <=Afo*>
international
Wiiui/zL
wm
*(;»«* 3»W-'
#• '***■
V
>JW»' &
m
:«
■vm
Yes, the new "KB” Internationals are here—light, medium, and heavy : duty
models, in capacities from upwards. These new "KB” models present
many features and improvements . . . new goals in engineering, research,
and design . . . new styling with trim, flowing lines accented by gleaming
chrome. Note the designation—"Kß” . . . That means rugged International
stamina, long trouble-free life, and ease and economy of operation in greater
abundance than ever before.
"KB” Internationals are the finest trucks in forty
years of International Truck history. In the
complete line is the right truck for every job.
And back of every truck is the specialized truck
service supplied by International branch houses
and metropolitan distributors in the capital cities,
and hundreds of International country local
dealers throughout the Commonwealth.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Vic.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
FACTORY, GEELONG
ipumipiu i mm ii
■ VII m H mmJm I 1 WBWla
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
/International^
Full information regard'
ing the new Inter-
nationals is available at
our branch house show-
rooms or from any of
our metropolitan distri-
butors or country local
dealers.
16/4/’47). When the hole is to be bored
in rock I use a fin. steel and a plug of
gelly to every foot in depth—always bore
into what appears to be the hardest part
of the rock, for the fracture always hits
towards the weakest part—thus in a 2ft.
hole there’d be two plugs of gelly and
a half-plug for primer.
Tamp the gelly in firmly, follow with
the primer with detonator and fuse
attached, then tamp firmly with paper —
about three inches is enough. If there's
a misfire don’t bore a second hole, but
use another half-plug of primer, with
detonator and fuse, on top of the mis-
fired one. Tamped firmly in, it will ex-
plode the charge.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Feeding of barley alone
to ewes due to lamb or in lamb is in-
jurious. It is essential for the sheep to
get a good deal of fibre if they are to
remain in good health. If in-lamb ewes
can get reasonably good picking in the
paddock and are supplied with about
Hlb. of fairly good hay or barley per
day they will do well and put on condi-
tion. If the picking is very coarse or
the hay very poor or if straw is provided
instead of hay then the quantity of
barley supplied must be increased and
can approach 21b. per head per day.
“Mr.”; A flood fence described in a
recent issue of the N.S.W. “Agricultural
Gazette”; Fence consists of six wires (one
barb and five plain) run through droppers
and attached by the bottom wire only to
posts 33ft. apart. Bottom wire is ruh
through the posts 4in. from the ground
and 14m. from the edge on the down-
stream side. Where droppers abut posts
they are held with a tie-wire looped over
the top inch or two. It’s claimed that
flood pressure will force the fence of
droppers over on to its side, allowing
water and debris to pass without danger
of tearing it away. When the waters
have subsided the fence only needs re-
attaching to the posts.
“Malo”: Asparagus can be grown
from seeds or corms. If seeds they
should be sown in August, September or
October, according to climate. Make a
seedbed and sow seeds about 2in. apart
in the drills. When pressed into the soil
they should be lin. from the surface and
firmed down. After the plants are estab-
lished thin out (by removing the weaker
ones) to about 6 in. apart. If corms are
planted place them about 18in. apart with
wide spaces between the rows. Careful
watering by hose-spray is necessaiy, and
only light crops should be expected the
first year. Planting time is the same as
for seed.
“W. Court”; A spray pump and arsenic
pentoxide solution, 41b. to the gallon of
water, is effective against the burrs. Do
the job before the plants mature seed,
and mow the clumps and burn as soon
as possible after they have died off. Using
sprays means that stock must be kept
off the area for a few weeks, but this
method is somewhat cheaper than the
flamethrower. Small, thick masses of
burr, such as appear near cowbails, will
perish quickly, if a drop of molasses is
mixed with water, allowed to ferment for
several days, and then poured around
their roots,
“W.C.Q.”: Seedling clumps of lantana
in pasture are easily handled soon after
heavy summer rains or anytime when the
ground is very damp. Many can be
dragged out by hand, the worker throw-
ing a sugar-bag round the main stems to
protect his hands. Large clumps yield
easily to snigging. Where the ground
is disturbed, sow grass seed after a little
levelling off with a hoe. Cutting lantana
is merely pruning it. If stock take to
lantana the only way to save them is to
move them away from it. If allowed to
eat it steadily they’ll be short livers.
“Gumeraka”: Nut-grass and the less
troublesome thread-iris are often con-
fused with one another Nut-grass is a
serious pest, hard to eradicate. It spreads
by seeds and runners and has a darkled
flower or seed-head. Up to seven
narrow, dark-green leaves curve out-
wards from a central stem. Thread-iris
has a single narrow leaf growing from
the ground, a small blue or mauve flower
on a short stalk, no underground
runners.
“N.H.”; Canker of the ear in dogs is
usually caused by some foreign matter
getting into the ear and causing internal
suppuration. Redness inside the ear is a
sure sign. Syringe the ear with Condy’s
crystals dissolved in warm water for a
mild case and a l-in-20 solution of spirits
of wine and warm water for a bad case.
After syringing blow boracic acid into
the ear. Put a little sulphur into the dog’s
tucker and he will soon be right.
Dull and lifeless feathers sug-
gest that the oil gland near the fowl’s
tail on the back is blocked, thus prevent-
ing the bird from oiling its beak to preen
the feathers. Wash the gland in warm
water to which a little washing soda has
been added and massage.


\
\
\T/'\
N
m
m
A
and remember TAA FARES
ARE STILL THE LOWESTt
“IN AIR TRAVEL... -
LITTLE THINGS COUNT
that’s why so many fly
Making people comfortable is my job, and I like
it. It's easy, too, because in many little ways I
con make a world of difference to your inter-
state air trip. lam here to serve you tempting
meals and refreshments, adjust your chair for
you to stretch out if you wish, give you a book
to read, or toys to keep the children happy—
in fact, attend to a hundred and one little details
that make air travel by TAA a truly delightful
exnerience."
f
Brisbane-Sydney . . . . £6 1 6
Sydney-Canberra . • • . £1 18 3
Sydney-Melbourne .... £5 10 6
Hobart-Melbourne .... £5 6 3
Launceston-Melbourne .. £3 16 6
Canberra-Melbourne • . £4 17 9
Canberra-Mildura • •• • £5 10 0
Mildura-Adelaide • • • • £2 17
Mildura-Sydney . • • • • £7 5
Melbourne-Adelaide •• • £4 17
Perth-Adelaide . • • • • £l4 13
Adelaide-Sydney
(via Mildura) • • • • £9 15
df
df
RESERVATIONS AT TAA BOOKING OFFICE
SYDNEY; 119 Phillip Street (near Martin Place), B 0526. MELBOURNE: 339 Swanston
Street (opposite Public Library), MY 310. BRISBANE: Cr. Adelaide and Creek Streets
81341. ADELAIDE: Anchor House, 142 North Terrace, Cent. 7545. PERTH: National
House, 49 William Street, B 2453. CANBERRA: Civic Centre, F 615. HOBART: Cr. Collins
and Argyle Streets, 7411. LAUNCESTON: Cr. Brisbane and George Streets, 2061.
estimated that Mrs. Paget’s cuttings,
assembled in a large, handsome, leather-
bound volume, amount to approximately
316 columns of the ‘Banner’.”
“Fancy! ” says Mrs. Paget, “three
hundred and sixteen columns! I’d never
counted. Of course I’ve included the
full report of everything where I was
mentioned. There’s two columns each
in the Flower Show prize-lists, to begin
with. And the croquet matches . . . And
all the bazaars and committee meetings.
And the time the chimney caught on
fire” , ..
“You just read on and see what it all
amounts to,” says J. B. Duggan. “You’ll
wake the whole lot of them up to what
the ‘Banner’ is doing for this town.”
Mrs. Paget reads on. “Allowing, there-
fore, the conservative estimate of 600
words per column of the ‘Banner,’ a
grand total of 189,600 words has been
printed concerning Mrs. Paget in this
newspaper. ‘lt demonstrates,’ commented
Mr. Paget, when our reporter pointed
out to him this would mean a book as
long as Martin Chuzzlewit, ‘that the
“Banner” is performing a service to the
community that is literally amazing.’ ”
“There you are!” says J, B. Duggan.
“When you think of everybody in the
whole town written up like that, why all
these files” —he swefeps his rugged hand
in a grand gesture at the bound volumes
of the “Banner” that line the walls of
his ramshackle office—“they’re history!”
“Well!” says Mrs. Paget, pleased, “I’m
sure I never thought I was doing any-
thing as important as all that, just past-
ing in a few little cuttings about myself.
I never meant to do anything important
at all. I really didn’t think about every-
body else being written up in the
‘Banner’ . , . I suppose”—wistfully—
“that if those files are so important you’d
never think of cutting anything out of
them?”
“Cut the files?” says J. B. Duggan,
aghast. “Couldn’t do that! They’re there
for all time —for the record.”
“Oh, well,” says Mrs. Paget resignedly,
“you wouldn’t mind if I just had a peep
at it? My birth notice, I mean.”
“That’s right,” says J B. Duggan.
“Young Lord mentioned something about
that. Wanted to reprint it in the story ;
didn’t seem much sense in that, I told
him.”
“No,” agrees Mrs. Paget, “it wouldn’t
have been quite the same thing. He did
find it, though, I hope?”
“February, 1897,” says J. B. Duggan.
“Look, it’s right here. He put a marker
in the place. Thought you might like to
see it. Just would have made the record
complete, wouldn’t it, Mrs, Paget?”
Mrs. Paget adjusts her spectacles on her
pretty little nose and blinks at the great
sheet of the Egmont “Banner” —it was an
important paper in 1897—spread out on
the table before her. There it is, in print!
The little square-shaped notice announc-
ing her arrival in the world. “Births.
To Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Morrison, a
Daughter. Both well.”
“To think of that!” cries Mrs. Paget,
enraptured.
“Pity you didn’t think of cutting it out
at the time,” says J. B. Duggan jocularly.
“Oh dear, yes, it is a pity, isn’t it!”
says Mrs. Paget. “Fancy me as a baby.
Just a tiny little baby, just born!” She
holds her plump white hands, pink palms
upturned, before her breast as if, for a
moment, she cuddled that remote infant,
now so real, so vivid in her mind.
“Excuse me just one moment,” says
J. B. Duggan, who has been many things
before he became the proprietor of a
smalltown newspaper—a sailor, a miner,
a farmer, but never a great lover of
babies. “Excuse me —have to keep an eye
on that press of mine. Breaks down about
three times a day.”
Mrs Paget hardly sees him departing.
She sees, swimmingly, her birth notice.
There, in front of her. In black and
white. She sees J. B. Duggan’s scissors.
“ D Y jove that’s decent of Duggan!”
0 exclaims Mr. Paget, home from
his shop and gazing at the neat square
announcement now pasted into th P
book. “February the 17th, 1897. I never
thought he’d have given it to you, alter
what Mr. Lord said.”
Mrs. Paget chuckles. “Oh, she says,
“you can always get round a man it
you know the right way to go about it.
“You can do that all right, Julia, says
her husband with innocent approval.
“But I never thought he’d let you cut
the files. They’re the whole history of
the district.” „
“That’s what all you men say, says
Mrs. Paget. “But who will ever read
it? I don’t suppose Mr. Duggan or any-
one else will ever take the 1897 volume
out ,of the rack again. At any rate,
she adds softly, “I hope he doesn t.
“Why not?” A/r _ f
“Oh, I don’t know,” says Mrs. Paget
airily. “He might get upset about the
little bit he’s let me cut out of his precious
history. But I needed it to complete
mine. It does look complete, doesn t it?
I really began to feel I hadn’t been born
at all.” .
“Well, here you are now, all right, says
Mr. Paget, looking at the birth notice.
“From birth right up to the present day.
Do you know, Julia, you really are a
most remarkable woman. I can look up
this book and find out every single thing
you’ve ever done.”
“So you can,” says his wife, her blue
eyes twinkling behind her glasses. “Pretty
well everything, Will.”


PIPE SMOKERS
REPAIR SERVICE
An old pipe is like an old friend. How long
have you enjoyed his quiet companionship.
The mouthpiece may be broken, or the stem
cracked, but we can replace the mouthpiece,
and, by fitting a silver mounting, remedy the
cracked stem. If you think your pipe is too far
gone to repair, give our experts the opportunity
to decide. Acting on their advice, we will
communicate with you at once and let you
know their decision.
Genuine Vulcanite Stems, straight,
bent or square, each , . . . 5/
Sterling Silver Mountings, each . . 3/6
Plus postage for return.
All pipes returned! per registered mail in
7 days. N.Z. and island trade catered for.
Trade enquiries invited.
RICHARDS & HAMILTON,
2nd Floor, 756 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 2056.
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
'
,
■■ill
RH
Earn. . v f, , m
'
HH
I .1
w
>1
■
mmmi
gSii&gSa
il
liiiiii
ill
I
THE OWL IS PROVERBIALLY A WISE BIRD, SO BE SURE
YOU FOLLOW HIS EXAMPLE! TILLEY LAMPS ARE
SO SUCCESSFUL THAT COPIES OF THEM ARE BEING
MARKETED. TILLEY LAMPS ARE MADE ONLY IN ENGLAND
THE TILLEY LAMP CO., HENDON, N.W.4, ENG.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
MELBOURNE: T. H. Bentley, Pty. Ltd., 123-125 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
A white parrot which has bared Canberra
power-lines has so far escaped electrocution.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
Oh, well, anyone would have to peck
through a lot of insulating tape in Can-
berra before coming across a live wire.
“Languorous lovelies from Mayfair complain
that oversea visitors show reluctance to buy
gin at 70s. a bottle.” — Sydney “Sun.’ 1 ’
They fall for the snare but not for the
gin.
•i*
“Combining artistry with business, Petyt pro-
vided the background of appropriate music for
each cheese.”— “Sun.”
For the Gorgonzola he would have old
tunes with whiskers on them.
•h 4*
“Dentist urgently requires flat or house.”
And when he hears of one he’ll waste
no time in filling it.
“Jail-breaker to make films.”
—“Sunday Telegraph
Getting his revenge on society, eh?
*l* *i* *J*
“Chemical strike not yet settled.”,
—Sydney “Sun.’
So far attempts to precipitate a solu-
tion have met with an acid reaction.
What vocations offer the best opportunities
to those whose zodiacal sign is the Bull?”
—Astrology magazine.
Politics, radio announcing, running a
daily-paper column and house-to-house
canvassing are just a few.
’I"
“Near the judge’s box Van’s Hope fell
through a paper blowing about.”
—Adelaide ‘‘Advertiser.’''
The jockey hotly denies this. He says
he pushed the moke through it.
■i* 4* *s*
Said a wise old dinosaurus:
“I can see no future for us.
So we’ll let our hair grow
And join the back row
Of a musical comedy chorus.”
M. G.
Workman’s Compensation.
“A widow offered him a post as a baby-
sitter, with the possibility of matrimqny.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Somehow it doesn’t seem quite fitting
To picture robust he-men sitting
For weary hours just looking glum
While gurgling babies suck a thumb;
And surely it’s a social scandal
That any man should need to dandle
A squalling brat upon his knees
Not out of love but just for fees.
Ah well, the system’s here to stay.
And though a man might, in a way,
Suspect that he had lost in caste.
Such feelings surely wouldn’t last
In this case, where some small devotion
Rewarded promptly with promotion
Would, ere too many years had flown,
Enable him to hold his own.
D. H. E.
Sporting Note.
‘‘ ‘Letter-bombs’ addressed to British Cabinet
Ministers have been intercepted by Scotland
Yard.”
In faith, as stamp-collectors know,
The fell device would scarcely blow
Australian Ministers sky-high —
The bombs would be exploded by
The savage cancellation marks
Applied by heavy-handed narks.
P.M. LUSK.
Down and Out.
“In Paris dancer Michael Rayne leaped up
in an entrechat, came gracefully down, kept
right on down through a prematurely-opened
trapdoor.”— Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
I’ll put an even fiver up
And feel I’m nothing chancing
To back my personal belief
That he was through with dancing.
BERT.
On the Nose.
Nothing, my desk calendar informs
me, quoting La Rochefoucauld, is given
so profusely as advice. I would add that
men who by force of circumstances
temporarily don the apron seem to be
particularly exposed to it.
The wife had often expressed concern
at what she was pleased to term my utter
helplessness in the kitchen.
“How you would get on if you had to
fend for yourself and the children I can’t
imagine,” was her favorite saying. “I
suppose you’d feed them on nothing but
sausages and chipped potatoes or meat
pies, and I’d come home and find you all
down with dyspepsia or beriberi.”
I would retort that cooking was really
much simpler than women made it out
to be. It was, in fact, no more a mystery
to the practical-minded man than were
women themselves. Given the oppor-
tunity, any man could rustle up a first-
rate meal without all the dither that
seemed to be the invariable preamble to
the culinary job as practised by the house-
wife. As a final thrust I would point to
the fact that all chefs of the big hotels
were men.
My opportunity to prove my argument
came one Sunday morning when a rela-
tive’s sudden illness called the wife away.
Partly assuaging the trepidation she
voiced as to my ability to cook a three-
course meal, I packed her off, and, with
a refreshing absence of the flurry that
usually pervades the kitchen, I set to work
crystal-clear as to my plan of campaign.
With quiet confidence I began prepar-
ing the soup.
Now, it has long been a theory of mine
that by peeling and cutting up vegetables
too fine the vitamins are lost. I
heard somewhere that the vital nutri-
tious quality of rice is in the husk.
Wouldn’t the same, then, be true of the
onion? By excoriating the onion one
would rob it of its best food value. Con-
sequently I simply cut the whole onion in
four pieces. The same with the potatoes,
beetroot, cucumbers, chokos, lettuce,
swedes, radishes and such other ingredi-,
ents that I deemed would strengthen and
flavor the soup, and dropped them in
clean cold water.
The wife, with the casualness of her sex,
had left me no “stock.” To make up for
this defect and give it “body” I put in
some tripe left over from the day before
and an ox kidney I found in the frig.
The addition of half a cup of salt and a
pinch of nutmeg and that job was
"Dammit , they must be out !”
finished. All I would have to do later
would be to fish out the potatoes, cucum-
bers, beetroot, radish, etc., that would
have to be baked and put them in with
tlje meat, to top them off as it were.
Another thing for which housewives
can be criticised is the way they waste
dripping by putting it in with the joint.
On examining the forequarter I found
that it had ample fat on it. Why, then,
put more fat in with it? The heat of the
oven would soon melt the fatty part of
the meat and thus it could cook in its
own juice. To get it off to. a good start
I put the thermostat to “hot.”
I had just got my flaky paste rolled
out —1 was going to compose a steam pud-
ding, and to make certain it would rise
I put half plain flour and half baking
powder—when the new occupant of the
flat above poked his head in the door.
“I noticed your wife go out, and when
I smelt something burning I thought
something might have gone wrong with
your cooking,” he said. “It’s something
in the oven,” he went on. Going across
he opened it, staggered back as some
smoke belched out, got a cloth and pulled
out the tray and examined the joint.
“You’ll have it burnt to a cinder,” he
protested. “You have the gas too high.
And there’s scarcely any fat”
I pushed the tray back, slammed the
door and turned the thermostat up to
“very hot.” Admittedly the joint had
shrunk a bit—which upsets the theory
about heat causing expansion—and it
looked slightly black, but I don’t like my
meat underdone, anyway. I went back
to the table, mixed some jam up with
the flaky pastry, put it in a basin and
stood it in a pot of boiling water.
“I say,” said my uninvited visitor.
“The water will get in it if you don’t tie
it up with greaseproof-paper first.”
By this time I was getting fed up.
“Now, listen, Cyril, or whatever your
name is,” I said, “When I want your
advice I’ll ask for it. In the meantime
I’m doing all right. I don’t suppose you’d
know how to boil an egg without burn-
ing it, anyway. Nick off and flea your
Pekinese or go and open a tin of herrings
for your missus. I’m busy.”
After he had gone, and with nothing
more to do except give the pudding a
stir now and again, I sat reading the
paper. Idly glancing at the social guff
I saw the photo of a face that tugged
the chords of memory. It accompanied
a short article on fancy dishes, the photo
being that of the writer, who was the
newly-appointed chef of one of our
poshest hotels.
It was Cyril,
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
That R.S.L. Vote
The R.S.L. vote on the eligibility ques-
tion resulted in a queer alignment of State
totals for and against, with an overwhelm-
ing majority against the inclusion of all
volunteers, including myself, who were
not sent by the powers-that-be to combat
areas outside Australia. The result is
partly indicative of a feeling which seems
common among members of the A.I.F.
who went overseas—that by some
mysterious means we influenced the brass-
hats to hold us on the mainland.
It is unsafe to generalise about one
particular case, but there are not a few
like this. One of the misfits of the A.I.F.
—all armies have their “no-hopers”—
spent most of his 15 months abroad in
clink. He was returned under escort and
passed the rest of his time with a
training battalion in Australia until
discharge. As the last part of his record
was clean his discharge is an honorable
one. He is thus eligible to join the R.S.L.,
or will be shortly. He is just about due for
another discharge—this time from Long
Bay after serving time for an offence com-
mitted after becoming a civilian. As a
soldier he was not worth two bob, but
he’s “eligible.”
His training battalion, staffed by earnest
instructors who would have preferred
action to the monotony of trimming re-
cruits into battle shape, remained in
Palestine for the whole of their overseas
service and saw no action. Their eligi-
bility is assured because they went to
Palestine and back on a troopship, not
because they asked to go but because they
were told to.
Their counterparts in the R.A.A.F.,
trainees whose brilliance in their flying
courses marked them down as instructor
material, went aloft and daily risked death
with awkward trainees who “froze on the
stick.” Many of them “bought it,” but
the survivors who ate their hearts out in
Australia for the duration, cannot join
the R.S.L. The same applies to devoted
ground crews who kept the bombers aloft,
to the communication flights which flew
many more hours than their operational
confreres and others —all because they
volunteered for service anywhere in the
world, and “anywhere” happened for
them to be their homeland.
Using the ballot result as a basis it is
logical to assume that sooner or later
divisions within the R.S.L. will develop,
with battle veterans and fighter pilots
segregating themselves from the medical
people who patched them up in A.G.Hs.
and R.A.A.F. Hospitals behind the lines.
Ridiculous but not impossible. The vote
will certainly result in the strengthening
of other service organisations and the
weakening of League membership.—
Barwon (N.S.W.).
War Memorials
In discussing war memorials and the
form they should take (B. 4/6/’47) no
one seems to think of consulting the
people most vitally concerned—widows
and parents of the dead. Many are averse
from more shrines to which the pub-
lic pays homage only a couple of times
a year. Others feel that a strictly utili-
tarian memorial will quickly lose its sig-
nificance and become just one more social
service to be financed by private sub-
scription instead of by the Government.
John Weyman’s plea (B. 4/6/’47) for
trees should surely have general appeal.
Afforestation certainly, but not merely
that. Trees could be used to beautify
streets in the heart of our cities where
those who mourn could see them sym-
bolising the evergreen memory. In Syd-
ney a tree-lined Martin-place leading
from Macquarie-street to the Cenotaph
would enhance the route taken, by thou-
sands. The same could apply to other
cities and country towns, most of which
have memorials of some kind.
In the shadow of Australia’ House in
London the trees in the Strand put out
their flush of young leaves in April, and
by midsummer their foliage is thick and
sturdy. If English trees cap survive fogs
and scant sunshine surely Australian
trees can flourish under our much better
conditions.—Bim (N.S.W,).
I’m with John Weyman, Strathalbyn
(S.A.) collected a, substantial sum which
was invested to bring in sufficient to
provide a permanent gardener. At a
bend in the small stream that wound its
way through the centre of the town a
Memorial Park was laid out. From time
to time the residents organise work-
ing bees to assist in its beautification.
and that, together with donations and a
full-time workman, has maintained the
area in an admirable condition.
At one point on the bank of the stream
are the words! “Remember the Anzacs! ”
formed by carefully-sown small flower-
ing plants which remain evergreen—indi-
cating to passers-by the nature and object
of the gardens—C. B, M. (N.S.W.).
Fast Work
An American mail arrived by the
Marine Phoenix on May 30 before lunch,
and the first delivery I received in a
Sydney suburb was on the afternoon of
June 2. On June 12 I was still receiving
second-class mail matter. Two weeks
appears to be a long time for the G.P.O.
to sort a mail for delivery. There had
been no mention in the press of any
other American mail reaching Sydney, so
I can only presume that it came on the
one boat.
I. noticed repeatedly that after a ship
arrives from the U.S.A. I continued to
receive, mail for considerably over a
week. And now is it to be two weeks'?—
C. G. I. (N.S.W.).
Farms for Sale
Much has been said about the Govern-
ment s tardy re-establishment of ex-
servicemen on the land. To me, only a
junior clerk, the schedule of farms so
far up for releasfe has been very good.
In all cases they are ready for immediate
“Did you have the blackout before or after the accident?"
use once the new owner takes charge, with
a good house and outbuildings provided,
fencing in order and sufficient water.
All this is a long step forward from this
State’s group settlements after the 1914-18
war.
What I have noticed, however, is the
choice of these farms. Several farmers
that I know of have offered their farms —
good improved properties—and they have
been refused. It seems that there is a
monopoly in the sale of these farms —a
monopoly for the banks. Most of the
properties are those that have been mort-
gaged beyond redemption and eventually
taken over. I suppose the ex-serviceman
will make good on these farms, but why
does the Government give first prefer-
ence to these sellers instead of buying
from farmers who have good-paying,
well-improved properties for sale?
In all the cases I have seen the farmer
whose offer has been refused is a man
who has worked hard and has retired or
is due for retirement. He certainly isn’t
a speculator taking advantage of the
present good market for land;— Michael
Drummond (W.A.).
One Big Bank
Aiming at the trading banks, and
hitting local government en route, “Labor’’
hopes to achieve One Big Bank. Picture
the consequences in a typical country
town. At present a town of any size has
five or six banks, each with its manager,
staff and premises, and all kept busy.
Lending of money and all the other
multifarious services that come within the
scope of a trading bank today are essen-
tially personal business. “Labor’s” pro-
posal would result in this personal aspect
being abolished.
I wonder whether those who favor One
Big Bank have any idea of the very
diverse nature of a manager’s duties in
the course of an ordinary working day
Quick decisions are often called for on
proposals submitted, and they would be
beyond one manager controlling all the
banking business of a town. Of necessity
it would become a case of “Fill up this
form and you will be notified of the
bank s answer in due course.” One result
would be a crop of outside lenders charg-
ing anything they could get. But perhaps
Labor would “control” them also.—
Nugget (Q.).
Road and Rail
“R.H.G.” (B. 5/3/’47) says even if
heavy road transport does knock our
roads to pieces it’s incredible that anyone
should want to stop the trucks rather
than lay out a few millions of taxpayers’
money to rebuild the roads. What’s even
more incredible to me is that the opera-
tion in question, road transport of wheat,
was admittedly costing almost twice as
much as rail haulage, and that without
considering the destruction of the roads.
It may, as “R.H.G.” says, illustrate a
queer viewpoint, but I fail to see why we
should squander thousands of dollars and
millions of pounds to do a job which our
own home-grown system can do for, a
fraction /of the cost. It doesn’t make
sense.
His remarks about railway-track main-
tenance are irrelevant. All railways are
required to build, maintain and be en-
tirely responsible for their tracks. They
alone have to make good the damage
done by traffic, accident, fire or flood.
They have to bear the cost of increased
speed or loading. None of that applies
to the road haulier, who is completely
and utterly irresponsible. Any damage
done by his operations is a matter which
concerns the taxpayer in general.
In case “R.H.G.” feels like bringing up
that fallacious argument about the terrific
taxes levied on the haulier, I’d point out
that his own State’s Midland Railway
pays all the taxes there are, gets no return
on them and, on the contrary, sfees much
of its hard-earned cash being laid out
on roads and airfields for the benefit of
its competitors.
“R.H.G.” may well find mine a queer
viewpoint, but, as a taxpayer with no axe
to grind, I see it like this. Hfe wants me
to spend millions on heavier roads. Some-
one else wants more millions for bigger
and better airfields. So, in the face of
our contracting economy, I must have
three major organisations, two of them
expensive importations, to handle less
tonnage than one handled in the past.
And I’m expected to like it! —L. I. B,
(Singapore).
Salary Grab
Contemplating those elected persons
I cannot help but be filled with admira-
tion for their restraint. With such an
apathetic crowd as the Australian electors
our Commonwealth legislators might just
as easily have elevated their salaries to
£2OOO. Tlie effect on a public bulldozed
with racing, football, booze, pitchers and
the never-ending hunt for cigarettes would
have been precisely the same—long be-
fore the next election arrives the matter
will be forgotten.
But time is likely to work its own.
revenge. Now that the recompense is so’
much greater the competition among
Trades Hall hangers-on will klso become
greater. There will be an increase also
in the caballing and whispering against
the holder of a Parliamentary seat.
So, in the end, we may see most of
those who so gleefully voted the rise re-
turned to private life. To meet this
emergency we can confidently expect
pensions pot less' than £lO per week, of
course.—P. B. C. (W.A,).
Forgotten Men
one ° f the inevitable results of war is
the trail of suffering it leaves in its wake,
but the burden falls upon the cream of
° u r manhood. One need only visit a
mihtary hospital for confirmation of
this. Many of the patients are ex-p.*o.-w.,
men who have looked death in the face,
but whom the Federal Government
doesn t think worthy of a special pension.
I questioned several patients and they
said apart from an occasional Red Cross
visitor they seldom see anybody. That
this apathy should appear so early in
the piece is shameful. Each Anzac Day
we pledge our remembrance to the fallen.
Why can’t we .make and keep a similar
pledge to our living heroes?
On a recent visiting day at Spring-
bank Military Hospital, only one Digger
in the ward had visitors. It was not diffi-
cult to note the effect they had on him,
There are many “socialites” who, in-
stead 0i ° talking scandal at tea parties,
could cheer these lonely men —visiting
committees could be formed in every
State. It would be one way of repaying
the debt that we owe to these splendid
chaps who fought for many rights, in-
cluding the right of strikers to strike.—
A. D. (S.A.),
“Free” Medicine
Senator McKenna’s attitude on “free”
medicine is curious. He suggests that £2
million is needed annually to cover the
scheme. The Victorian secretary of the
B. has said that if this money were
voted to anti-tuberculosis work t.b.
could be eliminated in Australia in
a few years. The doctor is unlikely to
make statements of this nature without
due consideration. Disregarding the
humanitarian angle, think what a dividend
this would return on the capital involved!
A tremendous saving in t.b. pensions
alone, although the inadequacy of these
pensions is a big factor in keeping the
disease alive.
The value of the Government’s scheme
is extremely doubtful—any medico who
has practised in lodge or Army work (i.e.,
when attendance does not involve pay-
ment) knows that his patients are com-
posed of a few acute cases needing
specific treatment and a majority of
chronics whose illness, real or imagined,
is due to home worries or poor adjust-
ment to the hard ways of life. These
chronics are better treated by an explana-
tion of their symptoms than by a bottle
of medicine, but they are frequently ear-
bashers de luxe, and on a busy day are
often ushered out with a bottlfe in an
endeavor to cut short the interview.
What is needed in an ideal medical
service is not “free ’ medicine, but suffi-
cient time for the doctor to talk to these
chronically ill people and advise them of
the true nature of their illness. The “free”
medicine scheme will do exactly the re-
verse. As far as we know at present,
some of the specific cures for the really
sick patients will be omitted from the
formulary. The scheme, therefore, de-
feats its own ends. Imagine, too, Mrs.
X carrying to thfc chemist a script re-
questing medicine No. 16, and knowing
that Mrs. Y along the street has just the
same medicine. It will not do at all —
a chronic believes that his or her illness
is quite unique and needs very individual
treatment.
Another factor not widely appreciated
is that the scheme is unnecessary. The
man willing to keep a small part of the
fortnightly pay envelope away from the
bookmaker and publican can obtain
adequate protection for himself and
family by insuring under an “All Illness”
policy and joining a society such as the
Bankers’ Health Society, which covers
the greater part of medical, dental and
hospital bills for an annual premium of
£6 10s. for the family.
Many people apparently believe that
the medical profession is fighting nation-
alisation to protect itself. That is un-
true. Its object is the well-being of the
nation, which is not going to be improved
by the plan in its proposed form. Ex-
ception is taken by some to the money
earned by doctors. They do not realise
that a man with the intelligence and
energy to work a medical practice could
make a living as good or better in busi-
ness by working shorter hours. And he
would probably live longer. Many doc-
tors will prove that if the scheme does
not allow free practice of their profession.
The faculty is willing to co-operate
in any plan to improve the health of the
nation, and it is unwilling to assist in a
plan which will not. If the people don’t
realise this soon they will find an unsuit-
able plan in operation. New Zealand has
tried and failed. — Jock (Vic.).


The New Arbitration Act
The most striking feature, of the Com-
monwealth Conciliation and Arbitration
Act, 1947, a copy of \vhich I received
today, is the way in which it reverses
the former order of importance in the
Federal scheme for settling industrial
disputes.
In the Act at present in force (the pew
Act has yet to be proclaimed), the Court
is recognised as the main .piece of
machinery. The establishment of the
Court is set out near the head of the
list of .chief objects of the Act, and the
parts relating to the Court and its Judges
are followed by those relating to the
Conciliation Commissioners. The ap-
pointment of the latter was, of course, a
comparatively recent development in
Commonwealth industrial regulation.
The Act as it operates now centres
in, and is based upon, the Arbitra-
tion Court and its highly qualified and
industrially impartial Judges.
The new Act, however, puts the Con-
ciliation Commissioners first every time
while the Judges are relegated to a back
seat —possibly as a preliminary to being
pushed off the bench altogether. Among
the chief objects of the new Act, after
“the establishment of an expeditious
system for preventing and settling in-
dustrial disputes” and “the promotion of
goodwill” in industry, comes “the ap-
pointment of Conciliation Commission-
ers” (item c), with the constitution of “a
Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and
Arbitration having exclusive appelate
jurisdiction in matters of law arising
under this Act and limited jurisdiction in
relation to industrial disputes” as item
if) —second-last on the list.
Any lingering doubts as to “Labor” in-
tentions in regard to the new order in in-
dustrial affairs is settled by reading the new
sections of the Act, particularly those re-
lating to the powers of the Commis-
sioners. These worthies, to be appointed
by the Governor-General at £l5OO a year
plus allowances, will have absolute and
final authority in the making of orders
and awards, except as to standard hours
of work, the basic wage, annual leave
and minimum rates for females. Their
orders or awards “shall not be challenged,
appealed against, reviewed, quashed, or
called in question, or be subject to pro-
hibition, mandamus or injunction, in any
Court on any account whatever.” Yet
such autocrats cannot themselves be re-
moved from office, except by the Gover-
nor-General on presentation of an address
by each House of the Federal Parliament,
praying for removal of the Commissioner
on the ground of proved misbehavior or
incapacity.
Finally, while Judges must be barristers
or solicitors of the High Court or of the
Supreme Court of a State, of not less
than five years’ standing, nowhere in the
new Act is there any mention of any
qualification required for a Conciliation
Commissioner. — Wusslean (Vic.).
“Dedman’s Dole”
“R.W.” (B. 4/6/’47) apparently be-
longs to the “I did it the hard way, why
shouldn’t you?” school. “Now the war
is over,” he does not like paying taxes to
help ex-servicemen through the Univer-
sity. As he appears to like figures, I’ll
give him some —four years overseas ser-
vice netted me £146 in deferred pay, which
needed careful handling to reclothe me,
provide a month’s holiday and leave a
balance.
I had to do a 12-months course to fit
me for a job slightly better than my
pre-war one. It was a full-time course
requiring eight hours a day and two or
three hours’ night study. Without
“Dedman’s Dole” I would have had to
refuse training and take a laborer’s job.
“R.W.” was fortunate to be of an age
to begin his apprenticeship in 1935. Be-
tween 1939 and 1945 quite a number of
young men would have preferred em-
barking on careers to embarking on troop-
ships. Aren’t they deserving of some
assistance to catch up the lost years?
“R.W.” says it was “impossible to
think much of enjoyment” during his
battle for education. A soldier could, of
course, always think about enjoyment in
Greece, Crete, Malaya, Tobruk, at Ala-
mein or along the Kokoda Trail. — Simon
Scrawler (Vic.).
“R.W.” was widely read in my “home”
—a repatriation hospital ward. We
came to the conclusion that he does not
appreciate the job the “new Diggers”
have done for him, if he objects to pay-
ing taxes for the returned man who hasn’t
had his opportunities.
“R.W.” says it was impossible to think
of much enjoyment during his years of
study. He evidently thinks that we had
a glorious picnic in the desert and in the
jungle.
As to expecting the Government to
keep married men and their families, why
not? , After all Calwell is screaming for
more population, and jf it is necessary
for the national welfare surely the nation
should stand some of the added cost.
His final thrust —“By all means advance
more money to ex-servicemen, but don't
hand it out as a gift. Let them have it
as a loan, to be repaid when they have
qualified in their chosen profession” —
shows a very poor appreciation of the
self-sacrifice of the men of the fighting
services,
“R.W.” is still thinking in terms of
1935, when he began his apprenticeship.
This is 1947. Before we went into the
show we were promised the “New
Order.” We haven’t seen much of it yet.
—Repatriate (Q.).
“R.W.’s” reminder that a coming
generation is entitled to a little consider-
ation in the social scheme (B. 4/6/’47) is
timely. We are heading for conditions
similar to those which followed the
1914-18 war.
Surely the welfare of our returned men
is not incompatible with a chance of
living for the oncoming youngsters. In
education, for instance, “R.W.’s” sugges-
tion of loans for courses is perhaps one
solution. But a better one is the Wes-
tralian scheme under which the student
or his parent pays, or undertakes to pay
by instalments, a deposit at the com-
mencement of his course, to be refunded
in full if the course is conscientiously
completed.
Those who do not complete the course
do not get their money back*} and, human
nature being what it is, a bigger percent-
“Quite a good show. Now, when could I see you again ?”
age hang orj to the end than under the
“all free, do as you like” form of social
dole. It’s worth a try, anyway.—Gagi
(N.S.W.).
Some Prison Camps
In a Melbourne news-theatre I
saw a film called “A Letter from
Prague.” It showed pictures of the
Komis College, the Gestapo jail in Bmo,
where I was imprisoned Ifess than three
years ago. It’s a vastly different place
from those camps in the Tyrol, where
conditions, Mr. Chifley tells us, were
“quite good.” Not all camps in German-
occupied territory were as bad as the
Komis College, but the conditions I ex-
perienced were:
Salonika Starvation rations, deaths
almost daily from malaria, diarrhoea,
starvation and, on at least one occasion,
from shooting. Infested with lice and
bugs.
Stalag 344: Vermin- and rat-infested.
In summer flies were worse than in Egypt,
possibly because the contents of the
latrines were spread on the adjoining
fields. German rations inadequate, Red
Cross supplies irregular. Punishment
parades in the snow, sometimes without
overcoats. Handcuffing.
E. 711, Auschwitz: P.-0.-w. employed
in the I. G. Farben factory, a bombing
target. In one raid, 30 British killed.
Brno Military Prison: Four men in a
cell in midwinter, no blankets, no beds,
no bedding, Sanitation? Latrines, or
else the cell floor —it depended on the
warder’s mood.
Prague Military Prison : Nineteen men
in a cell, one blanket for three men, straw
for bedding. Two days out of three
rations were bread and water; third day,
bread and thin soup, with about an ounce
of sausage, jam or ersatz honey.
I think the men who endured these
conditions are more justified in their
claims for subsistence than are politicians
who have awarded themselves —and the
new issue of Senators —£1500 a year.—
Footslogger (Vic.).
Pessimist
Inflation is “the opium of the people,”
who readily become addicts and demand
increasingly larger doses in their pay
envelopes. The average man knows no-
thing of economics beyond his weekly
budget. Given his choice between the
Four Freedoms and a ten-bob rise, he
will vote for the ten bob. There can be
no doubt about his preference, for his
behavior consistently proves it. The
salary grab has become a vicious national
habit.
Inflation is no longer a threat but a
reality. The Federal snatch is just one
more proof that our legislators are aver-
age men who demand more and more
currency to satisfy their craving. All
dope fiends act alike because the habit-
forming dose creates its own appetite
and must be increased to induce the pipe
dream of prosperity. The ensuing de-
pression is inevitable,
A glance at the Situations Vacant
columns in the papers shows how the
drug traffic finds its victims. Large, expen-
sive advertisements offer workers high
wages with luxurious conditions, perks
and privileges added. Wage-pegging is de-
fied, dodged or ignored. Every succeed-
ing day’s chart shows a more violent
action and reaction in the body politic, a
sure symptom of the accelerated progress
towards economic insanity. Rocket
(S.A.).
Curiosity?
The Civil Aviation Department has
issued a questionnaire to airlines opera-
tors ; and what a corker it is! There isn’t
even a guarantee or promise that the
information will be treated as confiden-
tial. The instruction reads “For the in-
formation of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and Department of Civil Aviation.”
To comply with the dragnet request will
take many man-hours —to put the com-
pany on the spot for T.-A.A. to select
particular routes which are showing suffi-
cient profits for it to take over or to
oppose.
Is nothing to remain private as far as
civil airlines are concerned?— Recco
(N.S.W.).
The Indian Army
The article (B, 4/6/’47) which states
“To partition this Army would be as
difficult as to unscramble an egg” will
possibly convey the impression that the
Indian Army will remain unaffected by
the pending changes in India’s constitu-
tion.
I spent many years in India and served
with Pathans in Indian Cavalry in the
1914-18 war. With a few exceptions every
Indian Regiment was composed of at
least four different races or castes. My
regiment had one squadron of Pathans,
one of Punjabi Mussulmen, one of Sikhs,
and one Dogras.
Under British officers the regiment
was an efficient fighting unit, but outside
regimental duties the squadrons were
aloof, almost antagonistic, and lost no
opportunity to decry one another.
When the British leave India, the
Indian Army will “unscramble” itself in
quick time, each race and caste to its
own group.
Rajputs, Sikhs, Maharattas, Pathans,
Punjabi Mussulmen —just to mention a
few —are and always have been fighting
races. Today they are well-trained
the use of modem weapons. I cann
see these stalwarts keeping the peace fo
long in the new India. — Abdul Azwa
(Tas.).
Occupations
For the first time in Australian history
a complete occupation survey of (civilian
aged 14 years and over was carried ou
in conjunction with the issue of ratio
books on June 2nd and 3rd, 1945. It
principal results have now been publishec
by the Commonwealth Statistician, anc
these will be checked and extended afte
the national census has been taken.
Amongst the 5,085,754 individual
covered by the survey females predomin
ate by 538,210 because of the war-con
ditions then prevailing. Males, however
lead by 6664 in the 14-to-17 age-group
which was little influenced by war, per
haps suggesting a tendency to return
the higher masculinity-rate which pre
vailed in the earlier years of the century
Of the 2,811,982 females, 1,774,494 were
dependants of hosts and natural guard
ians, 144,350 were pensioners and
993,138 otherwise described as not gain
fully employed. Amongst the 2,273,772
males only 334,909 came within tha
category.
But it must not be concluded that
males carried the burden of civilian life
during the war years to an extent corres-
ponding with their higher percentage ol
gainful employment. Domestic duties and
child care, though not statistically in-
cluded under that heading, provided full
occupation for more than 1
Australian women. Without their Jielp a
large proportion of employed males could
never have done their jobs. Amongst the
gainfully employed they largely out-
numbered males in the manufacture of
articles of dress, educational work, health
and hospital work, personal and domestic
service in both indoor and outdoor capaci-
ties, and textile trades. There were 22,740
women employing labor, 37,419 con-
ducted their own businesses without em-
ploying labor, and 689,932 were wage- or
salary-earners.
Some followed very unusual occupa-
tions for women, amongst them a light-
house keeper, an ostrich farmer, a fencing
contractor, a dingo hunter, a trapper, a
ship rigger, a gunsmith, a saw doctor, a
stevedore, a goldminer, and a boatswain.
In addition there were women ship-
wrights, wheelwrights, prospectors,
stokers, geologists, livestock buyers,
oyster-bed cultivators, ships’ cooks,
rabbiters and fisher“men.” —M. Turlutu
(Q). __
Films j
The “tied-house” business is not con-
fined to the liquor trade. Picture theatres
are in it, too.
In this mid-western N. S. Wales town
of about 5000 souls we have one picture-
house which, quota or no quota, screens
Hollywood products almost exclusively.
Before the war it did not matter much,
because British pictures were then sub-
standard and the fewer seen the better.
But now, so the press tells us, they are
turning out films of the highest standard.
We do not see them.
Much in the American way of life is
admirable, but the glamorised version
served up by Hollywood is meretricious
and unreal, and its influence, particularly
on young people, is to give them false
standards. How many Australian girls
married American servicemen believing
they were bound for a land where every
home was a model of streamlined all-
electric luxury? In American films there
are none of the sort of homes you and 1
live in, none of the humble suburban
English homes depicted in “This Happy
Breed.”
The most precious tradition of the
British way of life is restraint —restraint
in passion, humor, art. How often do
you find restraint or subtlety in an
American film? It blares, it is “stupen-
dous,” its love-making is sultry and
nauseating, its humor all slapstick and
wisecracks. It has no gentleness—a vir-
tue which the world badly needs today,
persisting most markedly in the British
peoples. But we will not retain our
British characteristics overlong if we per-
mit the films —the key instrument of
modern social propaganda—to flaunt
nothing but a foreign way of life before
the eyes of our young folk. — Hist
(N.S.W.).
Bashing and the Remedy
Bashing with bottles is becoming as
common as razor-slashing was some years
ago. Sydney seems to be the place where
most of the bashings take place; but
these things have a way of spreading.
The lash, when revived to stop razor-
slashing, soon put an end to that sport.
It could also stop the bottle-bashing busi-
ness.—A. E. (Q.).


a r-'
No. 10 of a Series of
SIGNS TO REMEMBER
» \VI
100 K OUT FOR THE
ifvn CROSSING
A COUPIE OF MUSS
FAST THE TOWN . . "
\\ '
RAILWAY
ft']/
A
CROSSING
%
us
m
oft s
AH
OQJ*
.ONS
cAi
-1
&
v.Vj
C6/2618
always ask for
CQR
British Petrol
Published in the interests of
Safer Motoring
by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITER
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
HEED ALL ROAD SlGNS—
make traffic ways safer for yourself and others
THERiS NO BETTER QUALITY
CURVES
f
tc
•V.
f
V.v
c\
s~
■ " '.V’7 , ; «-a=i
liter*
vs A
.•a
NARROW
BRIDGE
a
A
■SK
A"?
X)
i
2a£
