

The House of Seppelt...producers of
EXTRA DRY SOEERO
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 68- No, 3519
Wednesday, July 23, 1947
Price Sd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ON THE FIRTH OF CLYDE STANDS SEQUESTERED WEMYSS BAY
ONE of Britain’s loveliest seaside resorts, Wemyss Bay is on the
border which separates the Scottish counties of Renfrew and
Ayr. By the Caledonian Railway only thirty-one miles from
Glasgow, Wemyss Bay possesses a welhknown hydropathic estab-
lishment and a good hotel. There are numerous splendid villas
here, built for the most part of the red sandstone of the district,
which aid in giving Wemyss Bay the attractive appearance fox
which it is noted. At the northern end of the bay is Wemyss Point,
near which stands Castle Wemyss, the seat of Lord Inverclyde. By
reason of its position Wemyss Bay is a convenient centre from
which to explore the magnificent scenery of the Clyde district and
the world-famous Kyles of Bute.


«a*.j*gig
This Book FREE to YOU 1
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Boolutt explaining .how to Write for Profit, v
advertised t» the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name ~
My Address
S.B. 147
The Red Page
"SHIPWRECK."
In a good, stinging little article in an
English quarterly, Kathleen Nott discusses
Duncan’s poetic drama. This Way to the
Tomb : and is led, by a sort of gloomy
inference, to a discussion of modern
poetic drama in general.
On both the particular and the general
subject, Kathleen Nott is pessimistic.
This Way to the Tomb she finds
“dangerous and depressing”—sympto-
matic of a falseness in modern thought.
It is propagandist, to the neglect of
character, and the characters are thin,
faint abstractions. The article con-
cludes ;
But can’t our dramatic poets stop going
their ways to a monastery? Can’t they try
the experiment of humanism, stopping on
the way back to ritual and mystery, to
Greek or Morality, to cock an eye at the
nearly perfectly epicene Shakspeare, who
wrote poetry around character, passion and
action; and who would never have allowed
an actor, that professional hypocrite, to
wag a hortative finger at us?
Considered in this light, Douglas
Stewart’s poetic drama Shipwreck (Shep-
herd Press, Sydney) offers a contrast.
The total effect of This Way to the Tomb
is of a rambling and dull sermon. The
total effect of Shipwreck is—a shipwreck :
or, more properly, the bold striking
out of a swimmer—the human spirit—
through boiling seas of violence.
The play, founded on history, deals with
the shipwreck of the Batavia, under
Commodore Francis Pelsart, on the
Abrolhos Islands, off Western Australia,
in 1629. After the shipwreck, and after
Pelsart has gone to Java for help, there
are mutiny, massacre; murder, rape ; on
his return there are executions.
The principal characters arfe Cornelius,
the supercargo, who is tempted into be-
coming leader of the mutineers, and
Lucretia van Mylen, whose husband is
murdered and who becomes the property
of Cornelius. The play is chiefly built
on the struggle between these two.
Lucretia, when Pelsart has brought rescue
and she is told that the ship is sailing
that night—which is the end of the play—
is able to say “Oh, that’s , . . lovely”:
she has survived. Before that, in a scene
where Cornelius is on trial before Pelsart
for his life, she sums up:
No. I don’t hate you, Cornelius. You can
die in peace;
But die, but die, die! TheyTl leave you on the
gallows
Like a tongue in the bell of the sky, the voice
of this rock
Crying and clanging in a silent music of anguish
And if I were still on this island it might be
a sweet
Or a harsh or a pitiful sound, but we sail at
daybreak
And I’ll never hear it. Not a whisper. I hope
to forget you.
Intertwined with this principal drama,
there are half a dozen subsidiary themes
studying the characters of other passen-
gers who, like Lucretia, have bpen left at
the mercy of the mutineers: some de-
stroyed by their experiences, others sur-
viving them. Hfcynorick, the butler, who
tells Lucretia to “Outlast the devils,”
outlasts them. Pastor Sebastian, who
knew that the mutiny and massacre were
to occur, and who chose (ostensibly for
his daughter’s sake) to save his life —a
well-meaning, jovial man, perfect in some
of his fatuous moments —knows he should
have died at the time of the mutiny; he
survives, humiliated, and then rises again,
in one of the great dramatic moments
of the play, and kills Huyssen, the
mutineer to whom his daughter has been
given.
Shipwreck, as a study of character, is
absorbing. Particularly in the character
of Cornelius, who is tempted, who is
comical, grotesque, terrible and human.
And who. in the depths of his degrada-
tion, in the uncovering of his guilt, can-
not quite believe in it:
I’m alone. You all accuse me. You howl for
my death.
And I did not do it. I couldn’t have done such
things.
You won’t see it. Look what I am—a man.
Like anyone else. Good fellow. Some devil
did it.
Me to be mangled now. Not even to be man.
Not me. But what? What to be now? That
thing
On the gallows. Black. Swinging. Without
its hand.
Flying, like a black seagull; nowhere. Always.
Day after day. In the sun at the edge of the
water. •
But a cave, a darkness; not feeling the warmth
of the sun,
Not watching the waves. The seagulls will have
my eyes.
And David beside me, Seevanck; hanging to-
gether
Like shadows on * the tall gallows, not saying
a word:
As if he was no one; and I beside him nobody.
Commodore, don’t. Don’t do it!
But beyond the individual character
studies, and beyond the development of
speech rhythms shown in the quotations,
beyond the poetry even, it is the total
effect of the play that is important and
that is the effect of the form, to which all
is subordinate. The whole of the action
takes place in a tent, on the island, and
the emotional development is as compact
as the setting.
Shipwreck is certainly a play of
"character, passion and action.” Would
it also fulfill the requirements of Matthew
Arnold, who demanded majesty of sub-
ject, an “excellent action”? Are a mutiny
and massacre of-sufficient dignity, as, for
instance, the passions and deaths of
princes might have been in a world when
princes were important?
Huyssen and Pelsart, Cornelius and
Lucretia cannot have the intrinsic pomp
and power of Caesar and of Antony.
But they have humanity. And in the
underlying universality of Shipwreck—
although Matthew Arnold would not have
allowed this as a strictly artistic merit —
in its contemporary implications of war-
fare and suffering, there are power and
significance. In its portrayal Of the
fortitude of the human spirit the play
purges and rejoices. The book, which
has been handsomely produced with a
richly-colored frontispiece by Norman
Lindsay, is to be followed by a limited,
de luxe edition containing five color-
plates and 23 pen-drawings.
J. F.
"The Big Game."
A. P. Gaskell, a talented New Zealand
short story writer whose first collection,
The Big Game, has been attractively
printed by the Caxton Press, Christ-
church, has a strange habit of attacking
his own stories while he is writing them.
Consider, for instance, “The Pig and
Whistle,” which in a shorter form ap-
peared in The Bulletin and Coast to
Coast (Mr. Gaskell’s book, incidentally,
lacks the customary acknowledgments).
This is a remarkable story of a father
who, to stop his son from becoming a
drunkard (as he himself has been in his
younger days), burns down a remote
country pub ; and then, such is his deter-
mination, when the publican continues to
sell his wares in the stables, sets that
building afire; and finally, when the
trade continues in a shed, burns that
down, too, so that the publican is forced
to leave the district.
It is a queer story, and dramatic, and
with a rare flavor of the early days with-
out any over-stressing of the pioneering
motive or relapse into the style of the
period. It is a completely convincing
study of a character of more than ordi-
nary interest; “I felt a sense of wonder,”
says the son who, himself now in old
age, narrates the story, “that the despe-
rate character everyone was talking about
was actually a man I’d known all my life.
I looked at him as he sat there puffing
his pipe.”
Here is the mystery, the strangeness,
the profundity of the human personality ;
the story, in its essentials, is altogether
an unusual, a fascinating piece of work.
Mr. Gaskell, astoundingly, insists on
telling us that it is boring.
Interrupting the development of the
story, he inserts, quite unnecessarily, a
smart young man who, rather like the
Ancient Mariner’s Wedding Guest, falls
victim to the son (now aged and possibly
a bit of a loon) in a public bar, and
must hear the story of his life. Like
the Wedding Guest, the smart young man
beats his breast:
Oh, hell, I thought. I wonder how many
people he’s done this to. “Go on,” I
said. “What’s the rest of it,”
The Wedding Guest, mercifully, plays a
very small part in “The Ancient
Mariner,” for if Coleridge had allowed
him to burst in with “Unhand me, grey-
beard loon” in the midst, say, of the
wonderful passage about “the nightmare
Life-in-Death” he would have ruined the
whole poem. Mr. Gaskell does not
succeed in ruining “The Pig and Whistle,”
for the story is so good that it can stand
almost any amount of jeering or rejec-
tion by smart young men; but he does,
nevertheless, very considerably mar it.
The young man is not merely smart; he
is nasty;
“When you’ve really grown-up,” said the
old man, “you don’t need to feel young.
You’re satisfied with your age.”
“Save it for your book,” I said. “Where
did your father get this ‘Beer is God’s gift’
idea?”
And, when, smart and nasty, the young
man keeps interrupting the ancient, the
effect is exactly as if Mr, Gaskell him-
self had come in to throw doubt and
ridicule on his story; which is damping
and chilling. It is, after all, an un-
mannerly thing to jump into a story and
assure your readers that they are being
bored to death —especially when they
happen to be enjoying themselves. More-
over, since Mr. Gaskell himself is un-
doubtedly not merely smart but pro-
found, not nasty but amiable, and his
“I” is fictional, it is really a foolish
device.
It might be objected, of course, that
such smart and nasty young men do
exist and might legitimately be cornered
by ancient taletellers in public bars; it
may be that Mr. Gaskell intended to
satirise the young person, or to show the
contrast between sophisticated and un-
sophisticated types. Here the question of
good taste and of artistic selection might
arise, for, though the young man’s in-
trusion might conceivably be justified
on realistic grounds, he disturbs, in-
deed destroys, the whole atmosphere of
the story, throws its deep music into
discord. But it is rather to be questioned
whether the young man does exist;
whether he has any basis in reality or
whether he is not just Mr. Gaskell’s way
of proving he is up-to-date, as “modern”
as the Penguin New Writers, and Heming-
way and Saroyan, and Frank Sargeson
and Australia’s late-lamented “Angry
Penguins”—in the fashion, “in the swim,”
and taking a grave risk of sinking there.
It is to be noticed that Mr. Gaskell
doesn’t know quite what to do with his
interloping “I,” for it is never clear that
the young man is being satirised and at
the end of the story, where he makes
quite a polite and enthusiastic remark, it
appears that, without his creator ever
having paused to observe it, he has been,
improbably, converted into a nice young
man. What makes it still likelier that
the youth is pure fantasy, merely a kind
6f guarantee that Mr. Gaskell knows the
right fashion to follow, is that the ancient,
as if he knew he really wasn’t there,
never takes the slightest notice of his
jeers. When he makes an epigram and
is pertly told to “Save it for your book,”
the old man Mr. Gaskell has drawn might
weep, might walk out of the pub, might
hit the interjector on the head with a pot
of beer ; but he does none of those things,
merely goes on talking as if —as is prob-
ably the case—no living being has
spoken.
It is also to be noticed that the “I” is
a stock character. True, some variations
in his personality should be noted; in
the title story (disappointing in its build-
up towards a football match which is
never described) he is neither smart nor
nasty but merely frightened to play
football; in “Fight the Good Fight”
he is a religious fanatic, uncon-
vincing, nasty but not smart; in
“You Can’t Go Three Days” he is
a nasty weakling in a wool store ; in “No
Sound of Battle” he is a nasty, smart
weakling getting drunk with an Adjutant;
in “Tidings of Joy,” a story making a facile
contrast between soldiers and civilians,
he is smart and everybody else is nasty ;
in “Holiday,” a very impressive story
which, ending abruptly, might well be
developed into a novel, a trace of the
familiar smartness makes a strange in-
consistency in a character described as
“slow” ; in “School Picnic” the young
man changes into the third-person and
becomes Miss Brown, a smart, nasty
schoolmistress by means of whom Mr.
Gaskell almost manages to destroy a
jolly story of a Maori picnic. The vari-
ations result from Mr, Gaskell’s chang-
ing his models for the Modem Hero,
drawing sometimes from Hemingway,
sometimes from other mentors; but
through all the variations there remains
this consistency, that the central figure
of the story is feeble, defeated, and
loathes the universe. Defeated, hateful
. . *. and a fake ; for surely the nasty
Miss Brown, who is longing for “a few
spots,” would not be disgusted when the
Maoris drink beer at the picnic.
Only in “The Pig and Whistle” does
Mr. Gaskell directly attack his own work ;
but wherever this fake personality appears
he undermines it. Reading any man’s
writing (though the more skilful a
craftsman he is the less he will actually
appear on stage) we are aware, ulti-
mately, of the mind that made it: “Not
the novel,” said Lawrence, “but the flame
behind the novel.” In “Madame Tellier’s
Establishment” we see the delight, the
humor, the tenderness, the profound
understanding of character in the mind
of De Maupassant; in The Rover we
see Conrad’s love for the sea and sailors
and his sublime detestation of revolu-
tionaries ; but behind a story written not
from a personal but a fashionable view-
point, there is no personality,.no flame,
nothing but the fashion . . . nothing.
Only once in The Big Game does the
“I” of the story sound as if it could
really represent the author —not in his
own person; the narrator is an old man
recalling an adventure of his boyhood—
but presenting the writer’s own outlook
on life and on his art. This is in “The
Cave,” a powerful and haunting story
published in The Bulletin a few years
ago, dealing with some shipwrecked
sailors who, clinging to wreckage, drift
into a cave from which, though they can
be seen and heard, they cannot be rescued
and cannot escape. As narrated, the
situation seems possible. The telling
is simple, dramatic, and moving:
I think being so near the men and hear-
ing their cries made it worse. I know for
a long time afterwards the thought of those
men in the cave would recur to me. Some-
times I would dream of them. I was only
a boy at the time, you understand, and it
all made a great impression on me. But
I think that afterwards I was less of a boy
than before. I had seen some of the
strange and terrible things in life.
Whether or not this story has any basis
in fact, here is the ring of sincerity. This
is how Mr. Gaskell himself, being a
gifted and sensitive writer, looks at life;
not as something to be jeered at by a
smart, unpleasant dummy, but as some-
thing strange and terrible and beautiful.
Also, in its less tragic moments, he
sees life as something delightfully funny.
This book contains “The Picture in the
Paper,” which first appeared in New
Zealand New Writing, a comedy of the
Maoris fit to rank with the best of
Roderick Finlayson’s or with Henry
Lawson’s “A Daughter of Maoriland”;
as good a story of its kind, that is to
say, as has ever been written. Here
again the first person is used. It is a
dangerous device at any time, apt to
become wearisome or even ridiculous
when an “I” one cannot help (quite
wrongly) associating with the author
masquerades as first a hefty footballer
and next a meagre rouseabout and next an
old man and now as a Maori who has
gone mad with vanity because his picture
has been printed in the paper; yet here,
considering “The Picture in the Paper”
in isolation, the method is used perfectly,
Sammy is certainly not the author but,
because he is a genuine piece of charac-
terisation, one is able to go behind the
“I” to the author again; to see, behind
the rollicking Maori, the mind that made
him—lively, humorous, realistic and sym-
pathetic without being sentimental.
Here, as in “The Cave,” Mr. Gaskell
sounds like a writer; not merely like
someone trying to shock and astound
in the manner currently fashionable.
And so, regarded as the first book of an
author presumably young, The Big Game
is both ominous and promising. Litera-
ture, even more so than football, is “the
big game,” played not for a group but
for the world, not for the present but
for all time ; meeting timeless competitors
and to be judged by timeless standards.
The question is whether Mr. Gaskell is
going to keep on pretending to be every-
one else in the fashionable movement,
or whether he will be himself.
Pioneering Novel .
Cornerstone, by Dorothy M. Catts
(Shakspeare Head), is a novel concerned
with the founding of the colony; the
heroine, Mozelle, beginning her story on
May 16, 1787, on board the Sirius, and
finishing on August 20, 1851. And so a
good few historical personages find their
way into the novel.
The book varies little from others of
its kind, except that the growth of the
colony is seen from a genteel, drawing-
room angle. It has the common faults of
triviality and the conscious adoption not
only of the sentiments supposedly in
vogue at that time (generally in minor
novels), but of the very faults of style;
a tendency which is in no way arrested
by the story’s being presented in the
form of a diary.
Mozelle, aged 19 and newly married
to the Hon. David Fraser, second son of
Lord Wrensford, “the most important
man in our Hampshire district,” is the
daughter of a “humble country vicar,”
and until the advent of David, mounted,
and in a uniform of crimson and black,
had occupied herself almost exclusively
with radiant sunsets, the glory of sunrise,
and the fragrance of morning dew on
roses. Followed a whirlwind courtship,
a runaway marriage, honeymoon on the
Sirius and the New World at the couple’s
feet. David, besides being handsome
and aristocratic, is charming, tender and
chivalrous and, probably unable to bear
such a high pitch of perfection, dies on
page 84.
He leaves a son, Kim, who in time
grows into rather a noble character, pas-
sionately interested in politics and an
intimate of Wentworth and Wardell. And
Mozelle, while loyal in memory to David,
marries Joshua, a good and rather dull
storekeeper. There are some upsets in
a mild way, but everything works out
for the best in the end. For pleasant snip-
pets of history the novel is interesting,
but in no way remarkable.
Otago “Daily Times” (Dunedin, MX.)
is offering a prize of £2OO for a New
Zealand historical novel. The competi-
tion, which is to celebrate the centenary
of the province, is open to “all persons
born in N.Z. or permanently living or
domiciled in N.Z. at the date of the
closing of the contest, March 31, 1948.
Whitcombe and Tombs, Ltd., will publish
the winning novel.


Anthony Horderns
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
fdfd
Your Packard Shoes are your friends for
life! Ask the fellow who wears them.
This is a statement of fact when comfort,
style and construction are the keynotes
of Packard footwear. For
a healthy, happy and carefree foot,
comfort in footwear is
essential, and with the many and
varied Multiple Fittings of Packard
Shoes, your always important
“Comfort Fitting” is assured.
r
• '
The
cunr
I I *. 9
fdf
Above.
For free and easy walking, wear this Packard no-cap
Derby Shoe. They feature soft, pliable uppers of
Black Box Calf or Tan Elk, and genuine welted
leather soles. Available in Multiple Fittings,
sizes 5 to 11. Price, 50/2.
When you’re playing golf, you’ll need this Shoe with
its uppers of Brown Elk and flexible rubber soles.
Multiple Fittings in sizes 5 to 11. Price, 48/3.
Comfort unlimited with a Packard Oxford.
Available in Black Box Calf with
genuine welts, in your Multiple Fitting.
Sizes sto 11. Price, 48/3. {At Left.)
For your precious leisure hours, wear
, these Packard Tan and White Moccasins.
Uppers are of Tan and White Elk,
genuine welted soles of leather,
available in Multiple Fittings,
sizes 5 to 11. Price, 54/9.
(At Right.)
COUNTRY CLIENTS
Packard Shoes have been made in normal
standard sizes, but with the many
Multiple Fittings in each size. For your
selection we have in each size a NAR-
ROW, MEDIUM, WIDE or EXTRA
WIDE FITTING. So, when ordering,
don’t forget your size, PLUS the fitting
your foot requires.
d
’PHONE; M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT


X
lERSTONE
By Dorothy M Catts
•
An unforgettable romance of
the loves and sorrows of a
young couple in the early days
of Australia —an historical
document in fictional diary
form that portrays the real
scene in the foundling colony.
At all booksellers.
Price, 8/6
A SHAKESPEARE HEAD BOOK
SFi
rm
/.
n
/
<
Popular Motoring Leaps Hheadi
*
/
The Chrysler-Dodge-De Solo line • • •
great pioneers o£ worth-while motoring
features , • . bring a new thrill in
Fluid Drive.
This perfected Fluid Drive practically
eliminates gear changes. Your tip-toe
on the accelerator takes you from stop
to cruising speed—gives you all the
range of speeds needed in city traffic.
From a mile an hour to full speed
ahead, the motion is smooth and
effortless.
If you want the acme of motoring ease
and comfort, choose your new car
from the Chrysler-Dodge-De Solo line.
DOOSE
SI
H
l ivmoull
DeSoto
i
;
FAR DO TRUCKS
DODGE
TRUCKS
Chrysler Tbodge Ybisiritmton
(AUSTRALIA) FTY.LTO,
MEMBER COMPANIES
• SYDNEY: Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty. Ltd.. Harden and Johnston Ltd.. York Motors Pty Ltd
! Aut °™ b,les P 'y L/d.. Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.. Lane’s Motors Pty.' Ltd,
• BRISBANE. Austral Motors Pty. Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.
• ADELAIDE: Weymouth Motor Company Limited. Flinders Motors Limited.
• PERTH: Wmterbottom Motor Company Limited. Wentworth Motors Limited.
• hobabt. H. C. Heathorn &’ Co. Ltd., Metro Motors Pty, Ltd., Co-Operative Motors Limited.
CD 87
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copies of End of a Childhood.
Maurice Guest and The Young Cosirna, by
Henry Handel Richardson. —4048.
To buy The Game and The Abysmal Brule,
by Jack London. —4049.
To buy copy of Thelma, by Marie Corelli. —
4050.
Words of verse beginning; —
I just come off the Lachlan Downs
With a mob of travelling sheep.
I drew a cheque for forty pounds,
I drew it in a heap.
—4051.
To buy copies of My Droll Friend, Archie,
by Foulis, Blessed Be Drudgery, by Gannett,
and Elizabeth and Her German Garden. —4052.
Words of verses “The Gasometer,” by Adam
McCay, and “Supplication to Allah Reading”;
also verse beginning “What shall a man re-
member in the days when he is old?” —4053.
Aboriginal name for “where birds sing.”—
4054.
Information Sought.
Is it true that the A.B.C. is to run an
eisteddfod, and what form will it take?
Yes. Applications for entry forms for the
first A.B.C. National Radio Eisteddfod (it is
to be an annual event) can be obtained on
application to the. nearest State A.B.C. office.
They will be pos’ted to any address in the
Commonwealth. Completed entries should be
posted to, or left at, the nearest State A.B.C.
office not later than July 31. Competitions will
be held in Music Section (voice or instrument),
Drama Section (monologue or duologue) and
Variety Section (crooner, novelty instrumen-
talist, comedy entertainer). A panel of adjudi-
cators in conjunction with the listening public
will judge the results. Candidates who have
completed entry forms wifi be rdvised n r ,■
date and place of audition tSS t t “*’
remote country districts will have faciliti« r?
audition through regional broadcasts ‘ p ri l
are substantial and winners will be assured
broadcasting engagements. ured of
* * * *
(1) Petrol consumption of an Austin 7
engine used at a speed of 1000 revs ner
as prime mover for a 1000-wa/r eenernm >
(2) Would it be practicable to convert th
engine to a two-cylinder engine by removZ
pistons, etc. from two cylinders and makil
necessary alterations to intake and exhaust
ignition, and adding an external flywheel* A,
If so. what would be the approximate w
consumption under the conditions of (\)?
(1) Assuming that the generator is 75 Der
cent, efficient, it would be necessary to f
it 1.8 b.h.p., which is probably half the capS
of the engine at 1000 r.p.m. As an Austin 7
car will do 60 m.p.g. at low speed, and an
engine speed of 1000 r.p.m. is equivalent to
road speed of 16 m.p.h., you can expect at
the very most to use i gallon of petrol per
hour. (2) This is practicable, but involves a
lot of trouble. Why not sell the engine and
buy a small two-stroke stationary air-cooled
engine of the required power? (3) Probably
less than working with four cylinders. For
further assistance get in touch with Mr C H
Davis, manager, Austin Car Service' Dept'
Larke Hoskmg, Ltd., 56 Palmer-street East
Sydney. ’
* * * *
(!) Where and when was Vic Patrick born >
Where and when was his first fight, and how
many contests has he had? (2) Whom did he
beat for the Australian light- and wellerweielv
championships, and who won these titles from
him? (3) What are his weight, height and reach
and his real name ?
(1) Patrick was born in East Sydney, NSW
SR 2 ’ 192 °- fight at Carlton
(N.S.W.) on May 24, 1940, .when he ko'd
Les Schocker in fourth round. Career consists
of 50 contests for 47 wins (42 by knockouts
or technical knockouts, and five on points)
and three losses (to Tod Morgan on foul, Les
Sloan by technical knockout, and Bos Murphy
on points). (2) Outpointed Tod Morgan (15
rounds) for lightweight championship on July
3, 1941, and stopped Hockey Bennell (seven
rounds) for welter title on September 4. 1943.
Relinquished welterweight championship be-
cause boxers in that division were too big
for him, but has beaten all challengers for
lightweight title, which he still holds. (3)
Weighs around 9st. 71b., is sft. 6in. tall, and
has a reach of 71 fin. Name was Victor Patrick
Lucca, changed by deed poll to Patrick.
* * * *
Particulars concerning a shearing team known
as the “Mad Eight” ?
In 1923 at Williamburv (W.A.) a team con-
sisting of A. Williams, R. Sawallish, V. Day,
F. Teaman, L. Saltmarsh, George Bence, C.
Fleming and H. Munro, known on account
of their pace as the “Mad Eight," shore 9167
in the first week and 8770 in the second week
(losing one hour through engine trouble). The
highest day’s tally was 1806 on September 14,
Sawallish and Day each doing 242, but on
another day __ the same two shearers each
reached 250. * The sheep shorn averaged 111 b.
wool. In 1928 at Dalgety Downs (W.A.) Bob
Sawallish shore 304, and at Three Rivers (W.A.)
Harry Finlay shore 301 in one day.
Brief Answers.
L.Q.: There is no opportunity or possibility
whatever for any person, except an Islander, to
enter into business or obtain employment on
Lord Howe Island. In addition, no land may
be acquired by any person other than an
Islander for the purpose of building a home.
exportation of motor-car spares. It would be
necessary for the exporter to obtain a licence
prior to dispatching the goods to the wharf
for shipment. The licence would be granted
on application being made to the Export Licens-
ing branch of the Customs Department....
H.R.G.: N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, will supply
you with a list of varieties of’ wheal, oats and
bailey for sowing in the various districts and
a list of growers of approved seed T.G.M.:
Do not know of any market for maiden-hair
fern in Sydney, but suggest that you get in
touch with J. Davis, Nurseryman, 553 Canter-
bury-road, Belmore, who deals in ferns, and
may be able to help P.R.: For a list of
South Aust. manufacturers write Secretary,
S.A. Chamber of Manufactures, 12 Pirie-street,
Adelaide... .H.G.M.: Write Sturmey Archer
Gears, Ltd., Lenton-boulevard, Nottingham,
England. Australian agents are Kemsley and
Cos. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne T.D.K.: The
film “The Great Waltz” was screened in black
and white and not technicolor... .R.F.W.: A
complete sheet of 120 Edward VII unused one
penny stamps is not of much value. They
are only catalogued at 2d. each, and are not
available for prepayment of postage, as all
Edward VII stamps were demonetised during
the reign of George V W.E.L.C.: See Aus-
tralian Literature (2 vols.), edited by E. Morris
Miller M.M.E.: No grants of money were
made to Australian Generals after World War I.
N.P.S.: No such small book is available. Books
dealing with this subject, however, include Aus-
tralian Dairyman’s Handbook, Sheep, Farm and
Station Management, and an English book,
Practical Animal Husbandry, by Miller and
Robertson. The approximate value of each
animal is so varied that it would be advisable
for market reports to be studied from time to
time as well as stud stock sales J.HJ.:
WinifreW Bambrick’s Continental Revue, pub-
lished by Faber, was reviewed in The Bulletin
of February 19, 1947 W.G.C.; The specimen'
is infested with rose scale. This may be con-
trolled by spraying with white oil, 1 in 40,
during the period of greatest dormancy. Prun-
ing and burning of infested shoots should be
carried out before, the spraying. A second
spraying after an interval of six weeks is
recommended in order to kill young scale which
may hatch from eggs which survive the initial
sp:aying. ... A.H.H.: It is difficult to answer
without seeing the water pump. It is possible
that a Macio examination may reveal the cause
of the trouble. Corrosion could be caused by
the use of bore or artesian water during the
life of the car, or the electrolytic action to
which some forms df aluminium are suscep-
tible. Suggest that you take the part and refer
the matter to Mr. W. J. Sinton, Water Treat-
ment Technical Service Officer, Imperial Chemi-
cal Industries, 251 George-street, Sydney.


Missing Friend.
Re Estate of KATHLEEN MARY ARCHER TIPPING.
WILL EVELYN ISOBEL TIPPING, last heard of in
Christchurch, New Zealand, about 12 years ago, who
is believed to have subsequently married and be
residing in England or Eire or possibly Australia,
or any children of the said Evelyn Isobel Tipping
or anyone knowing of their whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, New Zealand?
Public Notice.
I, CHARLES MALOUF, of Syrian nationality, born
at Mt. Lebanon, Syria, and resident eight years in
Australia, now residing at 2 Martin Avenue, Bondi,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
<tf Scarcity , did you say ! And in times
of scarcity which commodities become
scarcest of all ! The hest 9 of course ! ”
fd
It is true that WHITE HORSE WHISKY
is in short supply. It is also true that its
quality was never finer than now.
•r~
IS YOUR
SHOPPING CENTRE
A BLACKMARKET I
mm.
mm
i
y
Every penny you pay above the legal
fixed price means a blackmarket purchase!
Many people don’t know when they’re
being overcharged in their family shop-
ping .that pennies are frequently added
on some purchases, threepences on others,
so that in time quite substantial sums of
money are being wasted on what is, in
reality, small-scale blackmarketing !
Perhaps this is going on in your shop-
ping centre !
Unless you spend carefully, familiarise
yourself with the fixed legal prices, and
do not exceed them, you may well be
exploited without being aware of it.
There are, of course, some people who
knowingly and willingly pay higher
prices to get scarce goods, or to beat
rationing. Fortunately, they are in the
minority, but they are as much to blame
as shopkeepers who overcharge. On the
national scale, these small local black-
markets are a potent factor in encouraging
an inflationary tendency . . . also they
help to undermine Price Control and
Rationing measures designed for your
protection and the stability of Australia.
Start working today to secure your own
future and Australia’s. Be your own
Prices Inspector. Refuse to pay more than
the legal fixed prices . . . and save the
difference it soon adds up !
5 WAYS TO SECURE YOUR
FUTURE AND AUSTRALIA’S.
1. Buy only what you really need. Spend wisely—
get full value. Save all you can.
2. Pay no more than the fixed or regular prices.
Always surrender coupons.
3. Don’t waste money on blackmarket goods.
4. Pay your way. Settle your debts. Buy for cash.
5. Invest your savings, at better than bank interest,
in Commonwealth Bonds, Savings Certificates and
Stamps. Later on you’ll have the money, plus
the interest, to spend on better goods in plentiful
supply at better values. Hold all the Bonds and
Certificates you own.
SAVE FOR
secw/ry
N 517.113.67
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address mus t appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken xt contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS should he addressed
to the Editor.
M. 8.; Orf reading Montgomery poem the
Religious Editor fainted L.H.H.: 'pie bird
nearly flew in. End disappointing 0.V.K..:
“In the night I awoke with the enclosed
arrangement in my mind.” Fry a glass or
warm milk... .A. 0.: Have you no music but
a grim grunting?... .L.G.C.: Come in and
bring your bouquet: —■
Corryvieckan: “I’m wedding one in just
a while.” Then, on the off chance that love
has made her blind, show her that poem
J.E.Z.: The poem is not very original, but
you are probably the first versifier in history
to have been incapacitated by the bite of a
monkey F.McL.: Glad to learn that the
sunset continues to function M.E.; After
the first line —“Eerily stark you stand alone” —
it was obvious that it was going to develop
into the usual observations on a dead gumtree.
O.L.: Your poem on the flying saucers
is, we hope, an illusion... .G.C.G.: “Ghoul”
is not a very good rhyme for “ridicule”....
H.E.R.: Too juicy a morsel... .W.McK.: Still
creditable but that’s a 11... .H.E.P.: “Fair maid,
thou needest not my clumsy words.” Is that
really the way you talk to her? ... .X-Farmer:
“ ‘lndustrial Possums’ is a glimpse of the fine
fellows among whom I work at an Electrical
Industries concern, with the ‘sunshine’ being
representative of our boss, who is one of
nature’s gentlemen.” In the interests of poetry,
possums and industrial harmony, then, here
you go:
G.S.H.: Coincidences take too much swallow-
ing....P.W.: “Is it trite?” It is, Paddy....
R.J.: Shortened and brightened it might pass.
N.T.E.: We suspected that detective all
along H.R.: Not up to standard
K.McK.: Gangster story put on the spot
C.0.8.R.: Among the featherweights
R.M.: Since we don’t like margarine and we’re
not keen on beetles you’ll understand why we
didn’t want your opus about a beetle in a
vat of margarine... .G.M.R.; A sincere attempt,
but far off the mark E.A.: Both stories,
one “sickeningly cynical in imitation of Somer-
set Maugham,” and the other “horribly, heart-
warmingly Hemingwayish,” crashed badly
D. : As a detective that crime-sleuth is a
washout S.M.G.: Do you want us to be
boycotted by the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Mothers-in-Law? H. 8.: “Lenina,
•the ‘Red Termite’ of Texas,” not wanted on
. the voyage T.D.: Pat is this week’s dreariest
suitor F.L.: Sorry, but we do not want to
join “Ye Most Noble Order of Ye Wheel-
barrow” U.M.R.: Too slight for us
J.R.S.: Census story had a sad and terrible
end P. 8.; As glad as we are that the war
bride solved her housing problems we can’t
immortalise her in our pages L.J.W.: A
few miles the wrong side of the border....
J.E.: No highlights in Henry’s adventure
E. : Celestial C. Smith no assistance to
you in your struggle for a crust N.J.D.:
It would take a Brian James to get the best
out of that plot J.M.: Hard to determine
which of the three is the biggest flop
R.W.K.: Your poacher doesn’t belong to Aus-
tralia but to a story by W. W. Jacobs....
E.V.P.: We are not buyers of cloak-and-dagger
fiction, nor are we in the market for ghost
stories A.M.L.: Old Dobbin didn’t even
reach the barrier C.F.: Cardsharper turned
theological student who cleaned out a trio of
spielers more than we could swallow....
E.M.8.: No C.H.R.: The padded cell
reserved for crazy inventors claimed your
specimen K.T.: Long tale of misery with
happy win-in-the-lottery ending finished among
the rejects A.W.T.: Seeing that you’re a
first offender you’re let off with a caution
W.F.A.; Pleased to note that the bishop over-
looked the curate’s lapse V.P.: Dowell
O’Reilly did it better G.H.: “Tiger” Kelly
is the fourth old pug to stage a comeback this
month J.N.: Cashier loses £5OO of his
firm’s money at two-up, then finds a diamond
necklace. Tut! tut! G.F.: According to
our legal expert your knowledge of law is all
wrong N.N.: What, not another hidden
valley peopled by a lost race —and only 100
miles from Sydney? ... .F.8.D.: That alibi has
been used too often in mystery stories T.D.:
Tale of drug runners too far-fetched for our
pages P.O’R.: Narrative reads like a slab
from a textbook and the dialogue is stilted.
C.R.: Comedy is a little too slapstick for
our liking W.H.: Hopeless L.D.: No
saucer of milk for your talking cat....E.N.:
Bowled out first ba11... .W.M.D.: We are
seeking stories, not sermons.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC!
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.G.: Give up burning midnight oil J.M.R.:
No board and lodging for your ferocious
crocodile... .T.L.: You’re better with the pen
than the brush, but you’ve still got a lot to
learn....E.C.: The same gag saw print in
our pages a few weeks ago... .J.McD.: Jock,
we’d have thought that you could have drawn
a set of bagpipes... .M.R.; Jokes have had
their day; drawings unsuitable D.J.; They
reminded us of the hurried sketches children
chalk on blackboards when their teacher is absent
from the classroom S.C.F.: All you got
right was the XXX on the beer barrel
E.H.F.: You’re a dismal jester and an indif-
ferent artist M.H.J.: Those fairies might
earn you a certificate of merit from a children’s
newspaper J.W.8.: Always pleased to con-
sider original jokes unaccompanied by draw-
ings P.D.: No laughter greeted the arrival
of your painstakingly drawn circus clown.
Other lands across the sea
Have Kings and Queens to boast,
We have royalty right here
In the land we love the moat.
You have seen the regal splendor
Of the Wattle Tree in bloom
Or smelt the sweet Boronia
Dispersing fear and gloom.
INDUSTRIAL POSSUMS.
’Mid the glitter and the gleaming
Of the metal-mottled place.
Assets bountifully beaming
In the sunshine I can trace.
There the toiling, romping possums
Pass a scattered disarray
Of grotesque metallic blossoms
By a grand attractive spray.
Ever joyfully preparing
To inhabit later on
Branches blessed with fruitful bearing
Kindly beckoning anon.
They are wisely conscientious,
Their accomplishments attest
Seldom swayed to be contentious
By apostles of unrest.
To annoyances vexatious
They essay to wreathe a smile,
Soon forgetting grandly gracious
That which hurt a little while.
’Mid metallic orchids swaying
To a seasonable breeze,
With alacrity obeying
Possums pass bouquets that please.


Stick to Crickets
By Cecil Mainz
HOLDING forth enthusiastically on
the pavement outside the town
pub, all three of them told the
Stranger the fishing was extra
good anywhere between the railway
bridge and the first rapids he’d come to.
“Keep t’ this side,” one of them said.
“Y’ got some crickets? They’re th’ best.
Cast in close where y’ll see th’ eddies on
th’ bottom-side of th’ willows.”
“Crickets is best,” said another.
They were all-out to help him, think-
ing he looked as if he needed it. He was
wearing jungle-green slacks and gaiters;
old issue stuff, but
clean as new. His
coat was a brown
canvas shooting-
jacket, fairly covered
with pocket-flaps.
Floppy green-and-
white rag hat and
polished tan boots.
Very sporty effect;
especially the shining
dark red rod with
the little white gad-
gets along it. Also
the curved fishing-
basket, slung on his
hip by the strap
over his Shoulder.
City ; obviously.
They themselves fished for perch with
a good length of bamboo ; a piece of
cork on the line a foot or so from the
hook.
Still, they were not laughing at him.
They liked the look of him. They were
with him. Not out of politeness. Pity.
Beside the three of them, afl toilers
under the sun, he looked frail arid blood-
less. His hand holding the rod was whiter
than boiling suds could ever have made
theirs. His fingers, oddly twisted as if
they’d been broken, were white and bony.
“That’s right, Jim,” the third one said
to the first speaker. “Crickets. If he
turns over any hunks of logs he comes
across he’ll find tons of them. Yes, mate,”
he added, direct to the Stranger; “kick
over them lumps of dry cowdung. That’s
where you’ll get ’em.”
“The perch are that thick up there now,
mate, they’ll come at anything,” said
Jim, unable to resist any longer. “Y’
remember th’ time, Tom, you an’ me was
up there an’ we couldn’t kid ’em to bite
at anything? We tried everything about
th’ place,” Jim told the Stranger ; “every-
thing. Crickets an’ witchetty grubs an’
worms an’ a chunk of steak we had with
us. An’ y’ know what,” Jim laughed at
the idea, “Tom here says, ‘They must be
all flamin’ vegetarians’—didn’t y’, Tom? ’
“That’s right, Jim,” said Tom. “ Vege-
tarians.”
“Yair,” Jim related. “An’ y’ know
what he does, mate? There’s a row of
beans growin’ there along th’ side of th’
sorghum, an’ he grabs a handful an’
breaks a bit off an’ puts her on th’ hook.
An’ she no sooner hits th’ water than he
lobbed a beaut. Didn’t y’, Tom?”
“Too right,” Tom said, shifting about
excitedly from one foot to another, tak-
ing his cue. “An’ we fished there f’r half
an hour an’ we had as many as we could
carry.”
The Stranger got in a word: “I haven’t
done any fishing for a long time,” he said,
“but that’s the first time I’ve ever heard
of fish biting at beans.”
“Aw,” the quietest one of the three
said, feeling sorry for him, “crickets is
best.”
“Well”—Jim had a reputation to up-
hold —“I’m just tellin’ him. You take my
tip, mate, an’ take along half a pound
of beans. Y’ can get ’em along at the
shop there. Anyhow,” Jim said, relenting
a little, “stick to this bank. She’s no
good on the other side.”
“Thanks very much. Good of you,”
said the Stranger, making to go towards
the shop.
The one with the most pity said, “Take
my tip, mate, an’ stick t’ crickets. Keep
along th’ bank goin’ up, an’ when y’re
cornin’ back there’s a good short-cut. Y’
see, th’ river goes round in a bend, so
when y’ get to th’ rapids y’ can strike
back straight up over th’ first hill. When
y’ get t’ th’ top of her there’s a track
goin’ down the other side. She goes
down through th’ timber, but she’s dead
easy t’ foller, an’ she brings y’ out right
on th’ main road.”
“That’s right, mate,” Jim said, feeling
a bit ashamed of himself; thinking,
“Poor cow. he looks crook. It’s a shame
to take the money.” Then to the one
with pity; “Draw him a plan of it, Huny,
so he can’t go wrong.”
“You’ll be right, mate,” Harry said.
“Y’ don’t want no plan. She’s dead
straight sailin’. Just head straight up
from ih’ rapids. Y’ll see th’ track there.
Y’ can’t miss it.”
“Thank you all very much, gentle-
men," said the Stranger, balancing his
rod and giving the basket a hitch. “You
think they might bite at beans?”
Jim said nothing.
“Aw, stick t’ crickets,” Harry ad-
vised him.
The Stranger shook hands with each
of them. It made them feel a bit embar-
rassed, both for pulling his leg and be-
cause his hand was cold and moist.,
Each of them couldn’t put it down quick
enough.
“Pretty crook, I’d say,” said Harry, a'
the Stranger in his odd-looking regalia
went along the pavement towards the
Greeks’.
“Aw, well,” said Jim, squaring things
with himself, “a bit of fishin’ won’t do
him no harm.”
THE Stranger came out of the shop
stowing the newspaper parcel of the
pound of beans into his basket. He had
asked for half a pound, but when the
Greek misheard him and made it a pound
he didn’t protest.
As he stepped off the pavement he
turned his head and tossed the trio a
salute. Just an eye-brusher ; officer style.
Then he went on, following their direc-
tions, towards the river above the rail-
way bridge.
In the paddock sloping down to the
water’s edge he turned over a piece of
rotted board with his foot, and a couple
of bewildered black crickets ran and
hopped and were lost in the paspalum.
A bit further on he first put his rod
down and carefully turned the small log
over with his hands. Several more black
crickets hastened to get out of the sun-
shine, and he was down on his knees
pouncing after them. The one he caught
he put in a small screw-topped jar taken
from one of fiis many pockets.
He stood up, taking out a handkerchief
to mop the cold sweat that had broken
out on his forehead. His hands were
shaking from the sharp burst of energy
and excitement. The sun, striking on his
face, gave his eyes a brighter glitter.
Holding the rod in a still-shaking hand,
he passed the next bits of wood and the
dry cowdung heaps without turning any
of them over.
The river, ruffled slightly with the faint
wind, the dancihg light on it dazzling his
eyes, turned away in a long curve up-
stream, bending to the right round a
clump of willows a mile or so away.
There were here, as he went along
near the water’s edge, numerous pieces
of driftwood. He stepped over them.
He still felt shaken from his moment’s
encounter with the cricket. He felt him-
self breaking into trembling, and began
to be frightened. His thoughts leapt from
one thing to another. That it was a reck.-
less foolishness to come here ; to think
that he’d be all right; that he could beat
it by himself. Nobody here to stay with
him like old Josel, and get a taxi and
take him out to where they’d look after
him.
He felt the cold sweat trickling down
his face; clammy about his netk and
hands. Dabbing at it with his handker-
chief, he tripped and kicked over a piece
of board.
He stopped and stared down. No
crickets. Just the flattened pale-yellow
grass ; lifeless without the sun.
He drew in a deep breath and breathed
out relief. Of course it was right to'
come here Old Josel hadn’t wanted him
to. “Now I want you to listen to me,
John. I’ve given my word I’ll get you
right. A doctor doesn’t know everything,
but 1 think 1 know what’s best for you
just now. You’re not fit enough yet. As
soon as you are I’ll be the first to tell
you to clear out. Up there’s all right if
you’re fit enough. • You don’t want an-
other blackout and I don’t want to see
you with one. Stay down here a while.”
As he went along he kicked at the bits
of driftwood, confident there’d be no
crickets under them. He felt in grand
form ; shambling along in the afternoon
sunshine, kicking over the bits of slicks
and wood with impunity.
Nobody about here, so he could talk.
“It can’t be done,” he said. “But I’ll
do it. It can’t be done. But I’ll do it.”
He always told himself that when he
found things difficult. Funny how diffi-
cult things could be. Little things. Go-
ing to the gas-stove part-partitioned off
the corner of the one-room flat, to make
a cup of coffee. Keeping your mind on
the coffee and off the gas-stove. Nothing
left in the percolator, so you have to set
about making a fresh one. The coffee-
tin empty ; opening another one. Empty
sugar-basin, so you have to fill that. The
wretched matches that break when you
try to strike them. Then spilling out
on the floor, so you have to get down
and pick them up one at a time. Every-
thing difficult.
He kicked another piece of wood;
pulled up sharp and stared down at the
black thing in the withered grass. Just
a splinter of charcoal.
Mopping off the cold sweat, he was
laughing. “That was funny. Old Josel
would have loved that. Not a cricket
at all. Charcoal. . Poor old Josel.
Putting Wordsworth into his diagnosis.
The world is too much with us. It can’t
be done. But I’ll do it. Ha, well now;
this looks a good spot.”
THE clear, running water came round
the outcrop of rock in- swirling eddies.
He felt the glass jar in his pocket, but
jerked his hand out again and opened the
flap of the basket, bursting the paper and
taking out one of the green beans.
With a small piece on the hook he
made a couple of false casts ; then he
dropped it exactly in the swirl of the
largest eddy. It made him smile; a
long time since he’d fished at all. How
many years?
The eddy swirled the small buoylike
float round and round; lost it, and it
made off down-river. He flicked it up
and dropped it exactly in the centre
again. Around it went, bobbing about
like something demented; again darting
off downstream.
Nothing biting. He remembered they
said to fish along by the willows. Reel-
ing in and shouldering the rod, he .started
off towards them. As he went along he
stopped every now and then, casting at
the eddies. The green piece of bean
stayed fast on the hook. Half a pound
would have been plenty.
The first big willow grew at almost a
right-angle out from the bank, its long
whips trailing their thin leaves in tile
water. An endless swirling of eddies
where the water came through on the
downstream side.
He felt excited again now he was at
the right place. Wiping the cold moisture
from his head and neck and hands be-
fore casting into the shade. The eddies,
too small to hold the float, tossed it
from one to another, passing it rapidly
downstream. He kept lifting it and
dropping it again, nothing happening.
It didn’t matter, really. As still no-
thing happened he felt calm and easy
in himself. Across the river the dairy
cattle were wading out body-deep, nib-
bling at the reeds and watergrass. The
green paddocks over there rose gently
away to the deep-blue horizon. A few
patches of white cloud stayed moveless
in the paler sky.
He sat down on the slope, holding the
rod high over the water, the float lying
on its side in the downstream run. The
quiet settled in his mind. He put his
hand out flat in front of him, back up-
wards, as old Josel made him do, and it
was only slightly trembling. An effort
of will and he slopped even that. It
was steady. He sat looking at the back
of its twisted fingers, feeling strength ris-
ing in him.
Without looking, he groped into the
basket and began nibbling the crisp' bean.
It smelt fresh and clean. He took out
more, chewing them for the juice, spitting
out the pulp. He thought of the three
chaps back there in the town. They’d
have a laugh if they saw him eating the
bait. He liked the youngest of tnem;
yes, that’s right, Harry. Telling him
about the short cut. it was Harry said
“Stick to crickets.”
He felt the glass jar in his pocket;
hesitated, holding it there. Then he
brought it out. His hand began to shake
as he slowly unscrewed the top. He
steadied himself with his spoken formula,
“It can’t be done. But I’ll do it.”
He stood up and stared down at the
water and the eddies and the float lying
downstream on its side. He flicked the
float up, caught the line and ran his hand
to the hook, ripping off the absurd bit of
bean. His hands shaking, he put the
hook into the black cricket.
He dropped it within inches of the
trailing willow, whips; staring, mes-
merised by the eddy sucking the cricket
down. The float leapt from eddy to
eddy. He felt the clamminess about his
head ; watching it.
At the extent of the line he had out
the float leant over, making its own eddy.
Nothing.
He looked across at the cattle; still
there belly-deep. The green rise of the
paddocks. The dark blue edge of the
horizon. The pale blue above. The few
white clouds.
A magpie began chattering up the hill
behind him. The low lap-lap of the
water coming through under the willow.
The fawn-and-black bull over on the
other side waded up the bank, letting out
a moaning bellow. The cows began fol-
lowing, splashing their way out.
Steadied, he lifted the float and dropped
it within inches of the willow whips. The
eddy sucked down the cricket.
He felt a slight touch and was ready.
There was a solid tug on his wrists. The
ratchet of the reel clacked loud in the
silence. The rod bent down in a long
sweep almost to the water.
HE had the reel under control at last,
steadying it, playing it out. Some-
thing big; going with the current.
His eyes tore at their sockets. He felt
a cutting pain in his head. But he was
tied to the water. He went with it, down
along the bank. Trying the fish out as
he went. The rod bent over; the line
taut.
The line suddenly slackened, but be-
fore he was aware of that it was taut
again, cutting the water upstream.
“Ha,” he shouted, “so you want to get
in under the willow, do you? No you
don’t, you beauty! A-bout tu-r-n! This
way, lad. Just this way, you little
trimmer. It can’t be done. But I’ll do
it.”
He did, too. The weight of the line
lessened. Snatching up the net he wound
steadily in, sliding down the low bank.
He saw the great ingot of silver swim-
ming underneath. He dipped the net
slowly down. A quick lift and there was
the ingot, leaping its five pounds of
silver alive on the grass.
He felt the pain in his eyes. The cold
sweat broke out on his temples. His
hands were shaking, out of all control.
He stood mumbling his absurd formula ;
now without any meaning.
There was no silver ingot in the grass.
The mad clock was clanging loudly in
hi s ears. The
pulleys were run-
ning up and
down. The radio
was roaring it
again in his
brain, “W ar,
War, War, War.”
All the other
clocks chimed in,
striking the hour.
He felt the
whip cutting
into his bare
shoulders. He sucked the blood from
his lips.
Head bent forward, cowed, he
shambled out of the prison camp along
the road. He did not look over his
shoulder. He could hear the little ape
there. The ape’s grin cutting the weals
in his back deeper. The ape kneeling on
his tied body, cracking his fingers one by
one.
He kept on along the road. He was
muttering “It can’t be done. But I’ll do
it.” He kept going. Shambling along.
There was a loud bellow fair in his
f?rf> *t roared out “How did y’ get on,
mate?”
{Continued on page 32.)


MUSIC AT THE CLOSE
By OLAF RUHEN
FROM the top of the rise, Deacon
Topman could see the best of his
domain ; the rich paddocks lying to
the sun, the house sprawling in its
orchard behind the shelter belt oi pines,
the stable and the great barn, the cow-
shed, the water-race that emptied into
the horsepond, the good fences and the
line of willow tops that marked the
cree k-
More and more, these days, the Deacon
sat here, leaning forward with his hands
on his stick, his chin on his hands, his
thin flanks finding comfort in the flat
stone that was his seat.
He sat very still on the stone, and be-
hind him, rugged and wind-shaped, rose
the grove of trees he had planted 40 years
before. His clothes were grey against
thfe grey rock and the shadows, but it
was impossible not to see the figure
dominating the hill itself, sitting so still
in the afternoon sun.
Away on the other side of the road his
neighbor, Con O’Neill, was ploughing the
Leydon block, an alien island in the
Deacon’s holdings. The six horses were
drawn up now near to their nosebags
hanging on the fence, and Con was strol-
ling over the lea to step out the next
lande, tamping tobacco into his pipe,
The Deacon couldn’t see the tobacco, or
the pipe, but he knew that that was what
Con was doing.
Most of his eyes were for his own
acres, a proud domain, well-pastured,
well-fenced and well-stocked. He noted
the things still to do. There was to be
a new bridge on the creek where the race
left it, and the timber was stacked by the
bam to dry. It was time to paint the
barn again, and he wanted to put drop-
gates in the main race in the sheepyards.
There was always work on a farm.
This afternoon he was not concerned,
There was a beauty of words in his head,
just something he had heard once, and
never forgotten.
“The setting sun, and music at the
close.” He tried to remember where he
had heard it, and could not. Young
Ernie, perhaps, always learning his
lessons out loud, walking up and down
the line of peach-trees to and from the
end of the verandah. It was a long time
since he had said “Good-bye” to Ernie,
Six years? Seven years?
“The setting sun, and music at the
close.” The Deacon felt contented. It
was a good thought, and implied a lot of
things he only felt.
On the lawn at the side of the house
his granddaughter Lucy—no, Sheila—was
bringing in the washing, working deftly
and swiftly as all the Topman women
did. There was some activity at the
further side of the cowshed, and the
Deacon remembered,
He stirred on the stone and got to his
feet with an effort,
H e steadied himself for a moment on
his stickj a nd wa lked down the hill,
noting that the hurdle gates swung freely
when he opened them, and taking his
time . He stopped once to look ovfer the
stallion paddock with its isolated loose-
box and its double fences,'once to shake
his head over the way the crested dogstail
was taking command of the pastures, and
came to the stable,
"THE stable was, in a way, the Deacon,
* It was a long low building, entirely
open on one side, as was not usual in
that district. For pillars there were tree-
trunks, 18 inches through. There were
12 stalls, and open feeders along the
front, built of great slabs split from ted
pine, and rough-smoothed with an adze.
T t e , P illars had stood without a shudder
while generations of Clydesdales had
fobbed against them. Now they were
honey-colored and skin smooth, and be-
longed to horses more than to trees,
No grass grew for chains about the
stable-front, and in winter-time it was
muddy, but it lay to the sun half-way
up the slope of the hill, and it soon dried,
Here the Deacon could have turned off
down the path towards the house, of
which the wide verandahs could not con-
ceal the stages of its growth, but he went
on and through the barn, ignoring the
truck and the glossy runabout parked in
the carriage-way where his wagons had
once brought in the chaff. These things
were necessary on a farm, but he wished
that they were not.
Young Andrea, perched on the kitchen
window-sill, sewing a waistband on her
tennis shorts, watched the Deacon emerge
from the barn, and stand a moment, lean-
ing on his stick.
“Poor old Pop. He looks as though
he’s had it,” she observed,
Sheila, damping the washing on the
wide table, didn’t look up. “The old
man’s good for a hundred years,” she
said. Her mother spoke over her
shoulder, from the range. “That’s no way
to talk of your grandfather.” After
awhile, she said; “He’s very old.”
But whatever it was the Deacon felt,
walking stiffly with his stick to the cow-
shed, it wasn’t weakness. He stopped
many times, and looked about him.
First when the Khaki Campbells crossed
his path with their minds walking faster
than their feet because of Billy calling
with their evening wheat,
Billy always fed them too soon. But
the ducks always wanted to be in two
places at once, to linger by the horse
pond to the very last moment, and then
to be, without transition, shovelling at
the wheat grains in the yard.
The Deacon watched them until every
jerky rump had negotiated the bottom
wire of the fence. He leaned both hands
on his stick in front of him, but there
was no weakness in his attitude. The
stick was a buttress, giving dignity to the
lean-stooped figure that was spare enough,
but filled the worn tweeds.
Above his white-bristled cheeks, not
sunken but parchment-limp, hiS eyes told
nothing of what he thought. He might
have been appraising condition, estimating
market prices, but the ducks were not
there as an economic proposition. He
liked the way they looked, liked the way
they talked softly to one another. A
duck was fitting in a fowlyard.
He stopped again to watch the Light
Sussex* hen with her 13 yellow chicks
scratching for slaters under the cedars.
No incubators for the Deacon. He kept
roosters with his hens and drakes with
his ducks and tobk pleasure in their
increase.
He was still standing with the chicks
when the yellow cat ran after him from
the barn to rub against his legs. The hen
called the chickens and loosened her
wings, and the Deacon laughed and went
to pat the cat, but he drew back. Sud-
denly it seemed as though bending so
low was a matter that needed thought,
and he walked on to the cowshed.
THE black heifer was down on her
knees and moaning softly. Spider
Topman looked at his watch. It was a
wrist-watch, a slim disc on a plastic band,
not at all the sort of watch that looked in
place on that great tree-root of an arm,
ridged like manuka wood, and burnt so
deep a tan that the thick brown hairs
looked fair against the skin. He made
a decision.
“Get her out,” he said, “You, Peter,
get ihe milkers in. We’ll have another
crack at her after tea.”
“No.”
The old man came forward and walked
to the beast’s head, and fastened the old
and rusted neckchain in place while she
staggered to her feet again, wild-eyed.
Then he opened the bail door, and leaned
his stick against the other side of the
stall. Nobody questioned him, but he ex-
plained himself.
“She could never make it on her own.
And she can’t wait. It’s got to be now.”
He was standing now at the heifer’s
flanks, where the two compressed nostrils
of the unborn calf took a whistling
draught of air. It had already been a
long time over the matter of birth.
“Take it easy. Pop,” said Spider, and
again the diminutive was out of place
in his voice as the wrist-watch was on
his arm. The old man worked vaseline
up over his elbows and ignored him.
“That white Shorthorn always threw
too big a calf,” he said, talking as though
to himself. He was feeling for the-little
heifer, being sorry for her in her harsh
introduction to motherhood. She had had
no need to gasp and wheeze before she
left her mother, the tiny thing that she
had been.
The calf’s nose rested in place on the
white hard hoofs. There was no obstacle
to the birth except for the calf’s great
size within the little body of its Jersey
mother. He took the greased Manila line
and passed it between the forelegs, push-
ing the calf back where it came from,
fighting Nature. His arms were steady,
but the sweat sprung from his forehead.
He worked fast, without haste. At last
he could pass the rope along the brisket,
round the ribs he could feel springing like
willow withes, over the back and along
the brisket again. The rope was in place.
He felt to make sure that the nose was
still nested on top of the little hoofs.
All the time he was giving orders —to
Spider:
“Strop that post —not the near one, the
next. And Peter, get the tackle from the
barn.”
He called it “taykel,” for the old man
had been to sea once, long long before.
Jack Withers, the rouseabout, was stand-
ing by the heifer’s head.
They rigged the block and tackle and
took a strain as quickly as he looped the
ends of the Manila. The heifer went on
her knees again, and then her hindlegs
went from under her while the old man
felt that the strain was steady, and she
was dragged along the hay-strewn con-
crete until the neck-chain clicked taut.
And so the calf was born. It hit the
floor like a wet fish, but before they could
clear its nostrils and take off the gear it
gasped and rolled unseeing eyes, and
tried to lift its head.
“By God, it’s alive!” said Withers. It
was a bull calf, white like the Shorthorn,
awkward with flat slabs of muscle that
would soon spring to size like autumn-
sown oats. Spider picked it up, and laid
it by its mother’s head. She took no
notice. She was past caring.'
-FHE old man sat on the box by the
I Open mouth of the stall. Beneath his
hands his knees trembled, and his mouth
was sagging a little open.
Spider took no notice of him. He
said:
“Get the milkers in, Peter. Bring up a
hurdle from the dip first. I’ll have to
block the stall off.”~
Coiling the rope, doing the little clean-
ing up tasks, he found lime to bring his
father’s stick from the head of the stall,
and set it where the old man could reach
it, without getting up from the box he
was sitting on.
“All set, Deacon?’Vasked Withers.
The old man motioned him into the dairy,
and got to his feet.
“Get the milk away from her. Just
leave her lay, and milk the top quarters.”
He stood leaning on his stick until the
line of dairy cows moved briskly up the
valley in the last golden light of the sun.
Then he walked out of the stockyard and
over towards the stable. What remained
to do was no concern of his.
Jack Withers watched him go, admir-
ingly.
“He’s a bloody wizard, the Deacon,”
he said. “He’s feeling it a bit, I shouldn’t
wonder.”
The calf made an ineffectual struggle
to get to its feet, and the heifer stretched
out its neck and nuzzled it, licked it
tentatively.
The Deacon stood in the stableyard,
taking no notice when Lucy came out of
the house to bang on the plough coulter
which hung from a branch of the big
walnut to serve as a dinner gong.
Now the sun was indeed setting, chang-
ing from gold to intense red as the
western hills closed it from view, fascinat-
ing his eyes so that it seemed he could
not look anywhere but there. The
stallion, between him and the sun, caught
sudden sight of Con O’Neill’s mares, as
they jogged back along the road with
no thought of anything but oats. He
screamed his identity, screaming strength
and imperious egoism, and on that note
the Deacon turned and walked over to
the house.
Among' Those Present
By LES ROBINSON
THE rat that could talk was there,
Urged to give an account of the
unfortunate affair, to tell the truth,
and promised by the coroner half a
pound of cheese ; that its return to the
cavity in which it resided would be unim-
peded ; that no questions, awkward or
embarrassing, about its private life would
be asked ; and assured, furthermore, that
disinfectants would not be used, it{ said: —
“I cannot say, sir, that I regret very
much the death of a biped so unneces-
sary and tiresome as this one was. To
be quite truthful, as you requested, he
was merely a nuisance to me. He was
in the habit, for instance, of getting up
and switching the light on several times
during the night, just, perhaps, because
he had forgotten to open or shut the
window, had omitted to wind his watch,
put the milk-can out, or, as happened
with frequency that was maddening,
because he wanted glasses of water. I
have never, in all my born days, lived
in the same room with any other man
who was so fidgety and needed such a
lot of water. It is, of course, a very bad
sign indeed as any medical practitioner
—for half a guinea—will tell you. I
came to the conclusion myself, I might
mention, that his liver was on fire and
that he was trying always, especially at
night, to extinguish the blaze,
“And he annoyed me in many other
ways as well. He was energetic and
tidy, one of those incubi who are so
dreary-minded that they take a pride in
keeping an abode clean. He never left
any food lying about, never a bone or
a bacon-rind, never a crumb even. I
detest cleanliness and all who regard it
as a virtue. They prevent me far too
often from getting enough to eat.”
“We are less concerned, at the
moment, with your likes and dis-
likes, Mr. Rodent,” said the coroner drily,
“than with the sudden demise of a man
named Samuel Pinson in whose apart-
ment, we understand, you had lived for a
considerable time.”
‘ 4 [—1 E was not a nice man at all
1 1 really,” the rat went on. “He
was always trying to get rid of me. Some
men are like that. They don’t believe
in reincarnation. Their egotism precludes
them from even dreaming that they too
may be rats some day.
“A rat, as doubtless you are aware,
sir, has no gall-bladder and its enemy,
man, taking the fullest and most despic-
able advantage of the deficiency, has
produced a substance that is harmless to
other animals, but, if eaten by us, causes
( j eat j l
. ' , ~ £ . x .
Pinson bought some of it. The poison
had been embedded cunningly in sweets,
which, according to the manufacturer,
contained as well an ingredient that was
greatly relished by rats, nor, I must
admit, was he far wrong either. He
stated also, on the other side of the tin,
that one of the delicacies was sufficient
to kill a rat. I, however, happen to know
the antidote, so, after entering Pinson’s
medicine chest and drinking some of
that rather nasty chemical compound,
I was able to consume with impunity a
number of those harmless-looking and
certainly most appetising lollies he left
out in a saucer for me before going to
bed.
“He searched, after counting what re-
mained of them, which amused me, for
my dead body in the morning.”
<<KJ O irrelevances please 1 ” said the
4 coroner, sternly,
“Nothing I could tell you,” continued
&e rat, as imperturbable as though there
a l° n e in the middle of the night, “is
more relevant than that he had the
i° n &^ st and thinnest neck and the small-
est head of any biped I have ever seen.
His nickname, when a boy at school, by
the ways was ‘pinhead.’
“Many a time, while waiting for him
to put the light out and watching him
from my place of concealment behind
some dunnage in a corner, as he moved
about the room at night, I thought that
if, in the event of an accident, his identity-
card could not be found, the length and
circumference of his neck and the weight
of his head—about that of a seagull’s I
should say—would, if they had been
ascertained and recorded correctly, dispel
doubt, if existent, as to who he was.”
“Yes, yes, yes ...” the coroner began
(Continued on page 32.)


' -
. . At aQ times, and
especially In the bath, Cuticnra
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper- •
ties which remove all trace
of roughness and soreness.
One of the famous trio-
Cuticura Soap, Oint-
Po
Jk
E 73
i*
The "ATLAS ” 8-inch LATHE
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all “MARS”
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
from a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Ply. Ltd.
df
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VlC.—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN q'land OP
MEEHANITE
METALS
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements—only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO.,
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HUMAN JETSAM.
It is still drifting into the camps for
the “displaced,” mainly in Germany;
once a tragic stream and still a sorry
trickle of people who once had a country.
In Germany—in the British and Ameri-
can zones—they hang on to them, pend-
ing whatever may one day be done by
U.N.R.R.A.’s still embryo successor, the
International Refugee Organisation.
A report published in America —such
items are apparently judged too insigni-
ficant for cables—shows that that
does not hold good if the “displaced”
were unlucky enough to be caught in
uniforms. The report states that in May
300 Russians who have no desire to live
in their native country were handed over
to the Soviet authorities by British and
American military authorities in Italy.
Commenting in N.Y. “Sun” on that
action, George E. Sokolsky declared that
“the likelihood is that they will all be
killed”:
It is apparently American policy to repatriate
Russians to Soviet Russia no matter whether
they want to go to Russia or not. Most of
these people have either escaped from Russia
or they have deserted from the Russian Army.
And the question always arises whether they
were Russians at all. Some of them may even
have belonged to free countries now enslaved
to Russia. As deserters, they are bound to
be shot. The reason that they deserted from
the Russian Army is that they hate Com-
munism and love liberty. They assumed that
liberty-loving human beings would be welcomed
by liberty-loving countries. But a deserter is
a deserter and we are still a friendly ally of
Soviet Russia; so we hand them over to be
killed.
Sokolsky mentioned reports from Ger-
many as indicating that not all those
“wanted” beyond the iron curtain are
handed over, though, with those who have
worn uniform, this appears to be due
more to their own cunning (or common-
sense) than to policy:
The number of deserting Russians is enor-
mous and many of them find ways of getting
rid of Russian wearing apparel. If they look
like civilians, they can get themselves into
Displaced Persons Camps. Of course, there
is always a suspicion that some deserters are
spies and therefore all authorities have to be
extraordinarily careful. The spies get into the
camps to gather data on Balts, Finns, Poles
and Yugoslavs who have escaped from the
Communist regimes in those countries. As most
of the refugees are Roman Catholics, they
belong to a persecuted church and therefore
their return to their own countries would mean
instant death. The theory that is being fol-
lowed is that anyone who has had too much
contact with the outside world is a menace
to the new tyranny. Now that the Russians
have enacted a new secrecy rule, anyone
who is even suspected of disclosing how few
shoes there are behind the Iron Curtain is
liable to 20 years at slave labor in Siberia or
death. The displaced person cannot prove that
he did not tell; therefore, he is assumed to
be guilty.
Lest anyone might think Sokolsky ex-
aggerates what can happen under the
new Soviet “secrecy rule,” some details
of the decree (proclaimed last month)
are worth giving as indicating what many
of the “displaced” have escaped from.
London “Times” (11/ 6/ ’47) commented
on the decree: “Soviet officials, who are
already the most security-minded in the
world, have reason to guard their lips
even more carefully” since the decree,
“Penalties for the Disclosure of State
Secrets,” was pronounced. A few ex-
amples ;
The accused will be judged by military
tribunals, and all found guilty of disclosing ■
secret information will be sent to a “reforma-
tory labor camp.” Servicemen disclosing secrets
will be sent to the camps for 10 to 20 years;
officials from eight to 12 years; private in-
dividuals from five to 10 years; provided,
in each case, that their action “cannot be
qualified as treason or espionage,” for which
the penalties are not stated. [They don’t need
to be.]
Much more revealing is the definition of what
is a State secret. It includes [as well as,
naturally, all sorts of military information]
much broader matters, such as “Information
concerning the negotiations, relations and agree-
ments of the U.S.S.R. with foreign States, and
equally all other measures in the sphere of
foreign policy and foreign trade which are not
contained in officially published data.”
Nor can any information be given about
the “place and system of safe-keeping and
transportation of precious metals and the State
fund currency, valuables and money coins”;
nor about “plans and proposals concerning
the import and export of certain goods”;
nor about “geological resources and production
of non-ferrous and rare metals and rare earths.”
After this comprehensive list there appears
the last item in the decree forbidding “other
information which will be recognised by the
U.S.S.R. Council of Ministers as not subject
to disclosure.”
That last, of course, is a blanket pro-
hibition which could be stretched to get
rid of anybody. It gives the complete
story of the “displaced persons”—people
driven by fear or striving for freedom.
Pleading for the raising of immigration
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
HIGH PASS.
restrictions particularly American as
the only solution of the “displaced”
problem, N.Y. “Times” has commented
on those in Germany:
Numerically, as a human group, they are
small some 834,000 former nationals of
Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Hungary>
Rumania, Polish Ukraine, Czechoslovakia.
Psychologically, they represent the greatest
living challenge to the purposes for which the
U.N. was created—“to reaffirm faith in funda-
mental human rights, in the dignity and worth
of the human person.”
As the same paper points out, the lot
of the* 834,000 remains precarious: even
if U.N.R.R.A.’s successor gets properly
functioning it cannot solve the problem
unless the countries which can do so
undertake to split up the “displaced”
among them as immigrants.
“World Report” considers the Inter-
national Refugee Organisation “will do
well to resettle 200,000” in the year end-
ing June 30, 1948 —this out of a total
of 1,346,000 for Germany and the rest
of Europe, where the “displaced” are now
gathered irj former concentration and
other camps, though with very different
treatment from what was once suffered
in those places.
The same publication mentions that
Britain hopes to take (over the next
couple of years) 100,000 skilled workers
to make up for the labor shortage, still
so acute and its rectification so vital to
Britain’s recovery that some of Mr. Cal-
well’s immigration blither sounds like
day-dreaming. Incidentally, going to
Britain may be no final solution for the
100,000; They “will not be guaranteed
a permanent home in the British Isles.
The offer is a one-year contract subject
to renewal, but without assurance of
British citizenship.”
France needs skilled labor as badly as
Britain, but, says “World Report,” “for
political reasons the French hesitate to
import Poles, Balts and Yugoslavs who
have refused to return to their homes.”
Canada “has been cautious” in saying
how many of the “displaced” it will ac-
cept; “World Report” puts the likely
figure at only 5000. Canada prefers
British ; moreover, since the war it has
secured a great many more of them than
Australia has. There are U.S. Congress
moves to admit 400,000, but “World Re-
port” believes thd total will be merely
15,000 for the year, and “Refusal of the
U.S. to take the 400,000 would give the
1.R.0. an assignment that international
officials consider almost hopeless.”
As described by a N.Y, “Herald Tri-
bune” correspondent the “displaced”
camps and the life in them form a curious
aspect of the war’s aftermath. The camps
“are a very definite part of the post-war
picture of Germany, with their hundreds
of thousands of people who have found
temporary refuge within the gates from
stormy past and uncertain future.”
In one camp of 6000 Balts in the
American zone the correspondent found
several churches, a hospital, maternity
ward, children’s creche and the like com-
munity requirements established. Some
90 per cent, of the men and 1000 of the
women were engaged in useful employ-
ment, and training was going on all the
time in a variety of trades and crafts.
A complete community protected,
certainly; but with no future, unless
some day they may be assimilated in
other countries that will not want them
as slave labor or corpses.
U.S.-SOVIET CONTRASTS.
The following “officially-prepared box
score” of U.S.-Soviet dealings has been
put forward by N.Y. “World-Telegram”
as providing the key to why Uncle Sam
eventually got fed-up:
THE U.S. DID THIS. RUSSIA DID THIS,
WAR AID.
Sent 11 billions to
Russia in lend-lease
supplies; gave mili-
tary and technological
aid through missions;
provided medical sup-
plies and civilian
goods through relief
agencies.
Grudgingly acknow-
ledged lend-lease help
and delayed agreeing
to discuss final settle-
ments ; no reciprocity
in military teclmical
information.
POSTWAR AID.
U.N.R.R.A. sent 250
millions to White Rus-
sia and Ukraine —72
per cent, of it sup-
plied by U.S.; U.S.
was ready to discuss
large credits.
Refused to discuss
settlement of economic
questions related to
credit negotiations.
POLITICAL AND TERRITORIAL
QUESTIONS.
U.S. agreed at Yalta
to cede Kurile Islands
and southern Sakhalin
to Soviets and recog-
nise independence of
Outer Mongolia; also
to recognise para-
mount Soviet interests
in Dairen, Port Arthur
and the Manchurian
railways.
U.S. agreed to
Curzon line as eastern
Polish border, giving
Polish territory to
U.S.S.R.; agreed to
give Soviet three votes
in United Nations.
At Potsdam, U.S.
agreed to Soviet an-
nexation of northern
part of East Prussia;
agreed to provisional
Polish administration
of eastern Germany;
recognised Soviet
claims for reparations
from western Ger-
many,
In peace treaties,
granted Soviet claims
for Italian repara-
tions ; compromised
on Trieste and Venezia
Giulia questions.
Offered Russia
mutual guarantee pact
against Japanese and
German aggression;
also recognised
U.S.S.R. security in-
terests in central and
eastern Europe.
Failed to observe
Yalta pacts for free
elections in Poland,
Rumania, Bulgaria;
encouraged obstruc-
tionist tactics of
Polish, Rumanian,
Yugoslav and Bul-
garian Governments.
Russia failed to co-
operate in occupation
policies in Germany,
Korea, Austria; re-
moved property from
eastern Europe, Korea
and Manchuria.
Soviets long ob-
structed Italian and
Balkan peace treaties;
also delayed consider-
ing guarantee pact
against Japanese-
German aggression.
Soviets have blocked
freedom of navigation
on Danube.
Russia has refused
to agree to organisa-
tion of Germany as an
economic unit, delay-
ing return to self-
sustaining German
economy and Euro-
pean recovery.
Soviets barred
access to U.S. citizens
liberated by Soviet
army but insisted that
all liberated ex-Soviet
citizens be forced to
return to Russia.
INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS.
In United Nations,
generous U.S. offer on
atomic energy rated
without precedent.
U.S. has been
patient in regard to
Russian use of veto
in Security Council.
U.S. has advocated
Soviet participation in
all specialised inter-
national organisations,
and has sought per-
sistently to negotiate
agreement with Russia
on reciprocal aviation
rights.
U.S. has sought to
arrange for exchange
of publications, scien-
tists and students be-
tween U.S.S.R. and
the U.S.
Russian tactics have
hampered agreement
oft atomic issue.
Soviets on 10
occasions have utilised
veto to prevent U.N.
action.
Soviets have used
U.N. as instrument
for political
manoeuvring and
propaganda, showing
little interest in its
true aims. Attitude has
blocked progress in
U.N. military staff
committee.
Soviet propaganda
of ten has been
abusively anti-
American, with U.S.
pictured as imperial-
istic, Fascist and re-
actionary.
MACARTHUR’S JAPAN.
Correcting a good deal of misrepresen-
tation or misinterpreting in America of
the meanings of statements made by
General MacArthur when he advocated
an early peace treaty for Japan, an early
end of the occupation and the taking over
of control by U.N.0., “World Report”
has published a summary of the General’s
replies to questions put to him by various
newspapermen.
Part of the summary may serve to
correct similar false impressions in Aus-
tralia, some of which would seem to have
been shared by Canberra. General Mac-
Arthur stated:
The time is now approaching when we must
talk peace with Japan. Our occupation job
here can be defined as falling roughly into
three phases—military, political and economic.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Hon seholders,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
THE SYDNEY BOOK CLUB
AUSTRALIA’S LEADING CIRCULATING LIBRARY
Some Books of Distinction Available to Members:
TOP SECRET. An nncensored Inside
storv l>y Ralph Ingersoll.
JOURNEY THROUGH TO-MOBKOW,
by G. Ei. Johnson. „
B.A.A.F. OVER EUROPE, by Frank
TWENTY AUSTRALIAN NOVELISTS,
by Cotin Roderick.
THE ROAD TO CANBERRA, by
Warren Denning.
CRIMINAL DAYS, by Travers Hum-
phreys.
CIANO’S DIARY, 1939-1943.
WE OF THE TURNING TIDE. Story
of Alatneiu, by David Goodhart.
EGO 8. by Charles Agate.
OSCAR VVILDE, by Hesketh Pearson.
MONTGOMERY. A biography, by Alan
Moorehead.
SALT WATER FISHING, by Van
Campen Heiluer. -
LORD'S, 1787-1915, by Sir Pelham
W sruGr,
C. F. sCOTT, 18IC-1932. The Making
of the “Manchester Guardian. ’
Catalogue Post Free to Any Address on Application
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. MA 65 11.
A large percentage of economic waste Is
caused l).v tlic dest ruction of propeltyb> lIKL,
mid while such waste cannot he eliminated, the
Individual can avoid financial devastation by
iniuviunai v.ii n f the valitalile and
necessary service rendered to the community
by Insurance Companies.
The prompt service given enables reconstruc-
tion to commence immediately, and is the
means of restoring to the workers employment
which might otherwise be lost to them.
The Australian public has been brought to
.. th'it thp support of Anstrallim lu«lus*
tries by everv individual is helping the country
eeneraflv to right its difficulties, but continued
nntronage is necessary in order to reduce our
ennn rv-s “total Indebtedness and thus speed
the return to prosperity and financial stability.
FOR
68
Years
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
Australian Institution has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
FIRE _ ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
pointed out that trade was the lifeblood
of the Japanese islands and that to stimu-
late trade Japan must import such neces-
sities as cotton and wool:
We do not allow Japan to trade. She has
got to be allowed to trade with the world.
Japan is only permitted a barter system through
the bottleneck of S.C.A.P. We’ve got to take
it out of the hands of the Government and
put it in the hands of private traders.
V Eighty million people need 20,000,000 tons
of food [annually]. Seventeen million tons are
produced here... .There is no way 1 can see
within the appreciable future that these people
can get enough food from indigenous products.
The job of the 'occupation, General
MacArthur added, is to restore Japan s
Reduction to self-sufficiency. “I once
read a statement Winston Churchill made
in one of his moments of profound in-
spiration. Speaking of Germany, he
said, The problem is not to keep Ger-
many down but to keep it up.’ 1 didn t
understand it then, but 1 do now. Our
problem is to keep Japan up.”
In discussing difficulties encountered
in attempting this, he said:—-
Japan cannot sell her raw silk in the United
States. The scientists have °o tdon t e
Milady would rather have nylon hose than silK
hose and they’re die boss, as arfy man wtU tell
you. The scientists have relegated silk to a
secondary position—just as they armic
and navies to a secondary position with air
power and the atomic bomb. Well, that s not
quite true, but it illustrates what 1 mean.
He said the Japanese were “magnificent
farmers,” but needed fertilisers for lands
exhausted of richness. Formerly, huge
The military purpose, wh ichistoensure
Japan will follow the ways of “° accolll .
again Be a menace, fa as oeui, t troopS) de-
plished. We dav .f ntrv torn down military
militarised the country, believe success
installations. Psycholog.ca ly, j un .
has been equally P r °P' tIOUS ’ nation that
derstands as thoi devolution has
been d probably P the SSS% world has ever
kn The n political phase is approaching such com-
them instead 9 f the reverse
Dpmocracv is a relative thing. It s a ques
tion of the degree of freedom you have. If
you believe in the Anglo-Saxon ldeay ° u *' ic
believe this will stay here. If you aie a cynic
or believe in totalitarianism you may doubt
ft is here to stay. 1 believe sincerely and
absolutely that it is here to stay.
1 don’t by that mean to say this thia S ca ’ led
democracy has been accomplished. Ihe pro
cess of dcmocratisation is one of continual flux.
It takes years. But insofar as you can y
down the framework it already is accomplished.
There is little more except to watch, contiol
and guide. , , . . n
The third phase is economic. Japan is still
economically blockaded by the Allied Powers.
Economic warfare along those lines still is as
bitter here as when the guns were firing. Ana
now strangulation is worse because we have
returned millions of repatriates from abroad. t
No weapon, not even the atom bomb, is as
deadly in its final effect as economic warfare.
The atom bomb kills by the thousands, stai-
vation by the millions. .
Japan was thoroughly exhausted. All sne
had left was men. She was living on stockpiles
and our blockade after the fall of the Philip-
pines kept materials from coming in. Now
they are scraping the bottom ot the stock piles.
Each little family had its stockpile—of clothing
and heirlooms. Now these are being sold to
keep men alive.
Even under the strictest rationing Japan is
not producing enough to satisfy her needs. Ihe
difference must be filled by the Allies. If wc
keep this economic blockade up, more and
more will we have to support this country. It
is an expensive luxury. But we will pay for
it or let people die by the millions.
It would be advisable for the world to initiate
at this time peace talks with Japan. But peace
won’t mean complete relaxation of all guidance
or controls.
Japan on her initiative and without coercion
has completed a constitution which takes the
great step of renouncing war. There was a
great deal of criticism when this first appeared,
but it remains. She also has abolished mili-
tary installations under the Potsdam Declara-
tion. Therefore they will be unprotected when
we withdraw. Who is going to protect them?
One method, General MacArthur said,
would be “to backtrack and permit
small military establishments. But,” he
added, “the Japanese are relying upon
the advanced spirituality of the world
to protect them against undue aggres-
sion.” It was on this basis, he said, that
he had suggested that the United Nations
should exercise control over Japan:
If the United Nations are ever to succeed,
this is the most favorable opportunity it has
ever had. Japan would be willing and would
desire it. If the United Nations cannot pro-
vide these mild controls, it cannot meet any-
thing.
Regarding when the peace treaty for
Japan should be made;
I’ll say as soon as possible. In Japan there
is a functioning Government. But in Germany
the Government had to be built from the
ground up, and there is no Government to
sign the peace treaty. Over here there is no
problem of what to do with Japan. She has
been squeezed out of pretty nearly everything
we can expect to squeeze out of her. 1 am
not talking of reparations now. But she already
has lost Manchuria, Korea and Formosa. There
is little left.
The days of S.C.A.P. [Supreme Command
for the Allied Powers] should cease completely
with a peace treaty because, 1 think, con-
ditions are ripe for it now.
General MacArthur said he would not
like to speculate on how long the United
Nations would have to continue control
of dcmocratisation. “The Japanese
would accept it. It would be considered
protective rather than repressive. It
could continue as long as it was muni-
ficent. I would not envision any mili-
tary formations of any sort after the
peaca treaty. Bayonet control would be
a mockery.”
On the restoration of Japan’s economy,
General MacArthur said, Japan was
economically poor. “In fact, that was
one reason she went to war —she was
reaching out to get resources.” He
-“It Buonenso," Rome.
UNCLE SAM TAKES OVER.
amounts were imported from China and
Manchuria, “but not a pound has come
in since the end of the war.” He cited
this to show difficulties of restoring pro-
duction. \
General MacArthur mentioned that he
had read a proposal by a Congressman
to cut off Japan’s foreign trade tor MJ
years. Asked “What would happen it
you did?” he answered. “There wouldn t
be anybody left alive.”
UNCLE SAM, NOVICE.
In world affairs J. Bull has long had
the brilliant services of Foreign Office or
Colonial Office experts who really know
their job ; specially educated and trained
for it. Part of the great tradition.
That has been admitted everywhere,
even by those who don’t like them. And
now that Uncle Sam is stepping forward,
lack of such experts is a shortage he is
expected to feel most acutely.
“The United States,” C. L. Sulzberger
has commented in N.Y. “Times, has a
rather restricted record in this kind of
active foreign policy. The supply of
‘expert personnel’ to administer American
conceptions of what should be done in
Greece and Turkey to aid those nations
is exceedingly limited.”
Not the only American to have doubts
about his countrymen in that capacity,
Sulzberger ‘insists: “There is grave
danger that impatient businessmen and
efficiency experts are going to be sud-
denly disillusioned when they find how
hard it is to get things going in the way
they like. And some of them will be
politically exceedingly naive.”
In haste to overcome the shortage of
trained foreign affairs experts Uncle
Sam recently set up as part of the
State Department a Foreign Service
tute, which, says Washingtoh “Post,” ‘ be-
cause of this new approach to interna-
tional problems assumes a vital import-
ance.” A paragraph on the institute at
work partly indicates how Uncle Sam is
going about this branch of his ‘new
approach”: —
Side by side in a typical classroom you
might find an economics specialist readying
himself for Buenos Aires, a cultural afiairs
officer assigned to Bogota, an aviation attache
bound for Cairo, a motion-picture experl tor
Mexico City, a press officer for Shanghai, a
code clerk going to Kabul, a f °„
Johannesburg, a building guard for Pra ?“ e ’ .f"
agricultural expert for Greece, and a secunty
officer for Lisbon.
These are the persons who will be America s
“eyes, ears and voice" abroad.
It must be a livewirc school —claims
are made of students having learned to
speak good Spanish in two months!
One himself passably qualified-former
U.S. Under-Secretary of State Sumner
Welles —has commented on “the curious
belief of many Americans that the United
States possesses some inherent right to
decide how other sovereign peoples
should govern themselves.”
There has been agitation along these
lines regarding Greece, the interfereis
s proposing that the Government there
; must be altered. “The present Greek
Cabinet,” Welles admits, “is inefficient
and, to a large degree, reactionary ....
Yet it came into power after fair elec-
tions and in accordance with Greek Con-
stitutional procedure.” ,
Much the same, m Welles s view,
applies to Turkey; and Americans will
fail in their objectives if they “pursue a
course of arrogant dictation which in-
fringes the sovereign rights of the Greek
and Turkish people and disregards the
authority of their elected Governments.
Welles has flatly declared that far too
often Americans thus bitten with the re-
formist bug are “ignorant of the history,
psychology and stage of advancement or
the peoples they wish to refoim.
A Scripps-Howard staff correspondent,
Ludwell Denny, writing from Athens,
has doubts on the same lines. He holds
that “the reason Russia and her satellites
are so cocky” about the situation m
Greece “is that Britain’s failure seems
to presage an American failure. We are
to spend no more money than the British,
and we have less experience. Is it reason-
able, then, to suppose we can succeed
where they failed?” .
One advantage Uncle Sam is to have
in Greece which Britain missed is the
very strict controls detailed in an earlier
article here, though, as reported by
Denny, there are snags to that too:
“The Americans also [like Britain] might
be smeared as imperialists interfering
with domestic affairs, usurping sovereign
functions of representative government.
There are such whispers already.”
There is, as well, another little publicised
element of awkwardness dogging the
“new approach.” “Many members of
Congress,” a “Christian Science Monitor
Washington correspondent reports, are
caught in a mood of conflict, reluctant
and indecision ; a mood that is not ade-
quately reflected in the daily news stories,
and that does not even find its way into
the tally of votes on the Greek-Turkish
aid bill It takes a first-hand contact
with Congressmen who are voting lor
these measures to understand the reluc-
tance, the uncertainty that frequently
•accompanies their acts”:
What it all boils down to is that the Ad-
ministration, and particularly Secretary Marshall,
has a perfectly tremendous job of explanation
and salesmanship ahead. Few nations have
ever come so far so fast in P°
the United Slates. But nobody can> cover
Congress these days without realising t
problems still ahead.
Uncle Sam is finding that running the
world isn’t all directives and dollars.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Czechos Miss Fritz.es. —A London “Times”
correspondent lately in Czechoslovakia, com-
menting on the grabbing by Russia of a slice
of the country with 700,000 inhabitants and
the expulsion by the Czechos of 2,000,000 Ger-
mans from the Sudeteniand ?nd Moravia, has
stated: “The loss of the Germans is economi-
cally serious. Most of the 230,000 employed in
industry were skilled and industrious workeis.
Of these 60,000 have been provisionally re-
tained either as specialists or because their
political loyalty has been sufficiently attested,
but not all of them will remain indefinitely.
It* is not easy in these days for Czechs to
live and work side by side with Germans, and
animosities are easily stirred. But to replace
170,000 skilled workers from a reserve con-
sisting mainly of women and of Slovak peasants
will be uphill work.” And, reports the Times
correspondent, “the removal of the ..,V ern l
agricultural population has left a still more
obvious gap.”
* # ♦ *
Jeremiahs Unlimited— Anyone feeling down
in the mouth over the current spate of war
forecasts and the state of the world in general
might get a little- comfort from a few woeful
utterances out of the past, dug up by a Lon-
don “Times” letter-writer :
William Pitt: “There is scarcely anything
around us but ruin and despair.
Wilberforce, in the early 1800 s: I dare not
marry, the future is so dark and unsettled.
- Lord Shaftesbury (1848): “Nothing can save
the British Empire from shipwreck.
Disraeli (1849); “In commerce and
agriculture there is no hope.”
The Duke of Wellington on the eve of ms
death (1851) thanked God he would be .spared
from seeing the consummation of rum tnai
is gathering about us.”
* * * *
German Markets Dilemma.— Even if those
responsible for shaping the future of Germany
set it functioning again as an industrial country
producing peace-time requirements, there will
still be the problem of markets —accepting that
the present demand everywhere for
from anywhere is not going to last. a
by “United States News,” there would be eager
customers all through Eastern Europe. But
countries in that part of Europe now i are in
Russia’s orbit. Germany may
order to trade with them, she will haye to use
totalitarian methods similar to Russia s .ln
the end she might wind up as part of Russia s
bloc. If Germany looks west for markets,
on the other hand, she will find herself in stiff
competition with Britain, France and the United
States. Businessmen in these countries, in
case, will find that the machinery, aUpmobdes,
trucks, textiles, precision instrumentsi and other
products that Germany can make are evading
their own markets. For this reason P
cess of fitting Germany into the Western
world’s trading would be long and paintul.
* * * *
J. Bull’s Greek Costs— Over the last few
vears J B has spent on Greece more than
double the $300,000,000 with which Uncle Sam
is going in there. London ‘Times Athens
correspondent gives some of the
“Roughly £75.000,000 has been spent on the
Greek armed forces in Greece and the Middl
East. By the London Economic Agreement
in i 946 repayment of a war-time loan °
£46 000.000 was waived and a sum ot approxi-
mately £16.000,000 which was still unspent out
of this loan was left at Greece’s disposal. In
addition a further loan of £10,000,000 was
granted. Since then surplus stores and con-
sumer goods worth £2 500.000 have been com
signed to Greece. Approximately £LOOU,UUU
hfs been spent on public works by ‘he British
forces - in Greece since the liberation, and
although no official figures are available it is
estimated that the drachma ea i lu
these forces and expenditure on the British
missions in Greece cannot fall short of
£7O 000 000. It should also be remembered
that the Greek Air Force is composed of British
aircraft and the Greek Navy of some 46 vessels,
including eight destroyers and six s “ b ™ a ™|J
has been built up by the British. LB. couiQ
Sot keep up the pace, but he has given Uncle
Sam a very handy start.


VJ
Fly TA A to the Sun
o
X
0
inr.
\
\
v
A
K
\
A holiday to North Queensland means escape from
rain and cold to sea and sunshine! The TAA
Skymaster ‘Sunshine Special’ departs from
Melbourne daily
TAA’s service is as luxurious as it is inexpensive
... book today!
UZaM~&t4attaofo
RESERVATIONS FROM THE TAA BOOKING OFFICES:
SYDNEY, 119 Phillip St., near Martin Place, Tel. 80526 . . .
MELBOURNE, 339 Swanston St., opp. Putlfc Library, Tel. MY3IO
. . . BRISBANE. Cr. Adelaide & Creek Sts., Tel, 81341 . . ,
ADELAIDE, Anchor House, 142 North Terrace, Tel. Cent. 7545
, . . PERTH, National House. 49 William St., Tel. 82453 . . .
CANBERRA, Civic Centre. Tel. F 615 .. . HOBART,.Cr. Collins &
Argyle Sts., Tel. 7411 . . . LAUNCESTON, Cr. Brisbane & George
Sts., Tel. 2061, or from Leading Travel Agencies.
A MIXED GRILL
“Compost”: Several Victorian town-
ships have perished by inundation owing
to the necessities of water conservation,
One is now threatened with undermining
owing, it might be said, to the strike
habit of N.S.W. coalminers. It happens
to be the State’s pet socialistic ewe-lamb,
Yallourn, whose citizens recently caused
a painful sensation in official circles by*
demanding democratic representation,
According to Kennelly, Minister for
Electrical Undertakings, Yallourn, with
its State-owned butchers’ shops, civic
centre, cinema and endless rows of neat-
gardened houses, may have to be dis-
mantled as the brown coal opencut is
extended, and he gave this fact as one
of the reasons why it couldn’t be granted
a municipal constitution. Kennelly
has constantly complained that he is
always left one jump behind the Elec-
tricity Commission in the matter of in-
formation about his own department, but
in this case he seems to be ahead of it.
If the town is shifted the taxpayer will
have to fork out, as usual, for this ex-
ample of Governmental lack of foresight,
* * * *
Shortage of everything is no unmixed
evil. For example it is delaying the Cain
Government’s £2,000,000 plan for “im-
proving” Victorian bayside beaches. Bath-
ing boxes, playgrounds, esplanades arid
other amenities were to be erected, and
every lovely little beach from Brighton
to Sorrento was to be turned into a con-
crete horror like St. Kilda and Bondi,
Excuses were mixed with arguments, one
being the need to check erosion. As
Cronulla (N.S.W.) can testify. Nature
never did as much damage in that way
as a bayside council or a Government
department bent on “beautification.”
* * * *
Victoria, which started the idea through
its Opportunity Clubs, is serving Oslo
meals to Government school-children. A
beginning has been made at Hawksbura
and if the results are anything like the
earlier experiments, which the Govern-
ment of the day repudiated, the plan
will be extended,
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Our bureaucracy, is it?
Entering a vast Government building in
Melbourne on a Saturday morning, hav-
ing very urgent business, I couldn’t find
a soul in it. Finally, having walked down
one echoing corridor after another, I met
an aged person, who was almost offen-
sively amused when he heard my errand,
“You won’t find anybody here, sir,” he
said ; “but don’t tell them squatters.”
I decided to push my inquiries, and went
round to other State and Federal
addresses. I found sufficient deserted
buildings to house half the homeless
families in the city,
* * * *
A family connection with the Forrest
electorate was snapped at the Westralian
election. After the first German war
J. B. Holman became Forrest’s M.L.A.,
having graduated from the secretaryship
of the Timberworkers’ Union. Dying, Jack
Holman was followed by his daughter
May, who had 14 years in the Assembly
till a car accident carried her off. Into
May’s place stepped a brother, who saw
out two Parliamentary terms. He did
not nominate again, and the Holman
dynasty is ended.
* * * ♦
Encouraged by its achievement in
bringing out building workers from a
war-damaged Britain where their services
are needed even more urgently than here
—the first batch was grabbed for specif
duty at Canberra —“Labor” asked Britain
for nurses to relieve the shortage of hos-
pital staffs, and the Orion brought three
(3) to Sydney. It’s hard to see where
many are coming from.
Because of the shortage of nurses and
midwives —at the end of March, 1946, there
were about 23,500 notified nursing vacancies
in hospitals in England and Wales —wards
had to be closed and admission refused to
patients. There were also 10,750 vacancies
for hospital domestic workers.
That is from a late report of the British
Ministry of Health.
* * * *
The Russki betrayal of the Polish
resistance movement at the time of the
Warsaw rising is, or should be, well-
known. Two less publicised betrayals are
detailed in a pamphlet issued by General
Kukiel, a former War Minister of the
Polish Government in Exile. In July,
1944, a Polish division which had been
formed behind the German lines, and
after months of stiff fighting had captured
two towns, linked up with the advancing
Russians. The Reds disarmed it and in-
terned all its members. In the same
month the same fate overtook two other
divisions which had been carrying out
operations in the German rear for four
months, and had taken part in the capture
of Wilna. Their crime consisted in fight-
ing to win back Poland for the Poles.
* * * *
The U.K. housing programme for
the present year provides for 300,000
homes, of which 240,000 will be
permanent. In 1946, 150,637 were
completed; 58,211 of them were
permanent. On the basis of popu-
lation ratios, Australia should have
built 27,000 houses last year and this
year should be planning 54,000. That is
if all things were equal; if Australia had
been bombed to pieces like Britain, and
its manpower debilitated by five years of
bitter struggle which reached its own
countryside.
* * * ♦
Six new radio stations for Queensland!
Well, it will serve the northerners right
By the time they’ve spaked in the new
A.B.C.* “news service,” which nobody
asked for and which will use up £200,000
p.a., they’ll stop growling about being
neglected by Canberra. To be neglected
by Canberra is about the happiest lot
that can befall a modern Australian com-
munity.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3519
Wednesday, July 23, 1947
BEDSIDE CONSULTATION.
"Prophet at first of ‘a Golden Age,’ and then of ‘a recession’—to Mr. Menzies, ‘a new fancy word for depression’—Mr. Chifley now says 'I am not accustomed to seeing
rainbows in the sky all the time, but I think things are improving.'"
“An interesting case, Dr. Chifley. As you say, the patient will improve, slip back, recover or kick the bucket."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P- H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box -2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WHAT A FOREIGN POLICY!
The vessel carrying Dr, Evatt and his
fortunes had not completed the first stage
of her voyage to Japan when a sudden
change Occurred in the attitude and
temper of Canberra. The P.M. an-
nounced it in the cheerful, hearty manner
he contrives to assume in emergencies.
Mr. Chifley said his Minister of Ex-
ternal Affairs was not going to Tokyo
to quarrel with General Mae Arthur, to
whom thei Government had vowed ever-
lasting gratitude, or something of the
sort.
You can dismiss all suggestions of any .
conflict arising out of whaling or phos :
phates. We aren’t getting into any rows
about minor matters with people who helped
us the way General Mae Arthur did. I
wanted Dr. Evatt to go to Japan to get
the atmosphere of the place before the
Empire conference at Canberra 'next
month. *
It was unfortunate that the change
should have coincided with another
attack on Mae Arthur policy by “a British
official at Tokyo,” possibly Dr. Evatt’s
academic protege Mr. Macmahon Ball,
that Cerberus of the New Diplomacy:
“three gentlemen in one, aren’t you?”
Unfortunate also that it should have fol-
lowed hard on a New York report as to
the dreadful flop of an Australian conver-
sion loan, featured by the “sudden dump-
ing on the open market of $8,000,000 of
unsold bonds,” resulting in the issue price,
slumping to 91j short-term and 92
long-term.
A “spokesman” wishing to be friendly
“discounted suggestions that friction over
Japanese whaling and over the Mac-
Arthur occupation policy caused the
‘recession.’ ” Still, something must have
happened to bring about the hasty aban-
donment of the latest Evatt stunt, with
which not only the doctor and his adoring
newspapers but even Mr. Makin were
identified.
That ferocious mouse of Our New
Diplomacy threw his weight about at a
meeting of the Far Eastern Commission
at Washington. According to the Sydney
“Sun,” a very tame member of the Evatt
claque, Mr. Makin, moving that all
Japanese whaling in the Antarctic be
prohibited, ‘.‘forthrightly attacked the
Americans for acting without consulting
Australia,” and was “vigorously” sup-
ported ; “every non-American country
represented on the Commission, including
[of course ] Russia, indicated sympathy
with the Australian case.” Indeed, “the
United States received a severe drub-
bing,” and its representative, General
McCoy, was baited into promising
that his Government would reply
at next week’s meeting of the Commis-
sion. It must have forgotten to reply,
except through the mouth of General
Marshall, who, independently of the
Commission, intimated that the whaling
and fertiliser arrangements would stand.
From Canberra it was. reported to the
“Sun” that “Australia” (i.e., Dr. Evatt)
was “gravely perturbed at the United
States attitude.” And a Reuter corres-
pondent in Tokyo had it that “when the
Angaur Island decision was announced
a high Australian official”—presumably
Cerberus again—commented, “This is the
most incredible action General Mac-
Arthur has ever taken.”
The plain truth is that “Australia”.
(i.e., Dr. Evatt) has made an unholy mess
of its relations with the Americans, Be-
cause of “Australia’s)” snarling and
shilly-shallying it has been left with the
Manus base on its hands ; and it never
wanted to carry that costly and corpu-
lent baby. It chose to raise the “minor
matters” of whaling and phosphates just
when the Marshall plan called for an
unbroken front of the English-speaking
nations against the Communisation of
Europe, getting for its pains only
another promise of Moscow backing
against “General MacArthur’s dictatorial
regime.” Nor have the Americans had
only these causes of annoyance.
While acquiescing dumbly all along in
the vast Russian annexations in Asia and
Europe, “Australia” raised the question
of American control of the League-
mandated islands taken from the
Japanese, at a meeting of the U.N.O.
Security Council. “Australia’s” perform-
ance on that occasion stirred the foreign
correspondent Vincent Sheean into
writing these sarcastic observations for
the “United Nations World,” of all pub-
lications :
The Australian delegate, Mr. Paul
Hasluck, proposed an extraordinarily clumsy
resolution which would create a com-
mittee or sub-committee of the Security
Council to consider the question, with
States “interested in the future of the
Japanese islands” as participants, whether
they belonged to the Security Council or
not. It was not at all clear what States
Mr. Hasluck had in mind. The Brazilian
President tried in vain to get a little pre-
cision into the resolution. The American
Mr. Austin, in a very spirited intervention,
said he was at a loss to understand the
meaning of the Australian delaying action,
since, under article 31 of the Charter, all
members of U.N.O. had had four months
to signify their desire to be heard.
Possibly Mr. Noluck, who is as aca-
demic in his way as Mr. Macmahon
Bawl, was waiting for instructions from
Dr. Evatt or hadn’t got them right. Any-
way, the debate was' adjourned. When
it was resumed Mr, Sheean listened
to Mr. Noluck “trying to explain
why he made his extraordinary delaying
proposal and upsetting several apple-
carts at once.”
, He said his only purpose in making it
had been to link up the trusteeship
agreement with the war in the Pacific and
with, in fact, the right of conquest —pre-
cisely what the United Nations exists to
oppose. The Australian statement con-
stitutes one of the most destructive yet
made in any part of the United Nations
Organisation; destructive, that is, of the
institution itself, the very foundations of
which it denies. The efforts of the Aus-
tralians to interpose barriers to the
free operation of American authority in
the islands will develop during the coming
weeks in various ways.
One “development” has been the state-
ment from Moscow, dreadfully anxious
for a diversion from its own unholy mess
in Europe, and furnished with the sub-
stance of Evatt-claque editorials on the
Angaur business, that “the U.S.S.R. will
support Australian representations against
General MacArthur’s dictatorial regime.”
If Mr. Chifley’s announcement means
anything this “support” will not be wel-
comed. But fresh “difficulties” have
arisen, and it goes without saying that
the Russians will make the most of them.
The Far Eastern Commission laid down
a policy for Japan, a policy which will
“make it possible to collect reparations
from current and future production” and
distribute them with regard to “the
material and human destruction and
damage suffered by each claimant country
and the extent and duration of its resist-
ance to Japanese aggression,” which
“formula” will give most to China and
least to Russia, whose “war” with Japan
lasted two days. General MacArthur
hailed the policy as ratifying all his
measures and signifying “complete unity
of purpose among the 11 nations and
peoples concerned.” Mr. Makin, how-
ever, simultaneously protested at Washing-
ton that “Australia” (in this case him-
self) had voted for it with reservations
(“the policy is subject to and without
prejudice to discussions that will take
place during the negotiation of the peace
treaty with Japan”) and had them re-
corded in the minutes:
There followed immediately an Ameri-
can invitation to the other 10 members
of the Far Eastern Commission to take
part in peace-treaty discussions at Wash-
ington on August 19, “outside the Com-
mission.” The plain intention here was
to prevent the Russians coming in with
a Molotov or Gromyko veto, of which the
Americans have had more than enough. It
was straightway discovered at Canberra
or on the high seas that “Australia would
not be able to attend the Washington
conference because it would clash with
the British Commonwealth conference to
be held at Canberra on August 26” —
of which the Americans very obviously
were not notified, and to which other
British Commonwealth Governments
agreed with evident reluctance. The
official statement issued from Canberra
ended with the clumsy words “Australia
does not want to indicate a flat refusal
of the American invitation but intends to
go ahead with the British Commonwealth
conference on the scheduled date.”
In language which was not clumsy the
Foreign Office announced that “the
British Government welcomed the pro-
posals for early consideration of the
Japanese peace treaty, but hoped it might
be possible to agree to a date subsequent
to the Canberra meeting.” The British
Government has to take into considera-
tion the views of South Africa and
Burma, which are not members of the
Far Eastern Commission but “have a
vital interest in the security of the Indian
Ocean,” and also the impending separa-
tion of India into Hindu and Moslem
States, a matter which —among others
immensely more important—involves the
position of Mr. Macmahon Bawl, who at
the moment can claim to be a represen-
tative of India.
At this confused juncture, “British
Commonwealth diplomats in Tokyo”
(Cerberus again, no doubt) were heard
from via Australian Associated Press and
Reuters. They were or he was “unani-
mous in agreeing that the Canberra con-
ference was essential before any official
meeting with other nations.” And it was
mentioned that “Mr. Macmahon Ball has
had frequent sharp public differences
with the United States representative”—to
the deep satisfaction of the Russian
representative and his masters, no doubt.
From the ranks of servicemen, par-
ticularly A.I.F. leaders, the External
Affairs Department could have drawn men
far better qualified to conduct negotia-
tions with other countries than the Has-
lucks and Macmahon Balls and also the
Fordes, Makins and Breens. They are
not doctrinaires or defeated political
hacks, but men of the world, good mixers,
experienced in studying the movements
of foreign minds and with the mental
equipment required to cope with the semi-
military methods and measures of
the Russians and their instruments, par-
ticularly native-born and immigrant
traitors. But while General Marshall
has been placed in control of American
foreign policy and General Bedell Smith
in charge of the United States Ministry
in Moscow, and while other U.S. generals
are looking after the interests of their
country in Germany and Austria, the
claims of their Australian counterparts
have been abruptly dismissed. For
“ ‘Labor’ doesn’t like brasshats.” “Labor”
prefers imitation Evatts; boys of the
University-lecturer and radio-spouter
breed.
The Work-shy Fever.
Viscount Montgomery came to Aus-
tralia on his own problems as Chief pf
the Imperial General Staff —to “find the
atmosphere,” as he said, in which they
must be studied. This 1 entailed looking
into problems peculiarly our own, and
the man of Alamein certainly got the
atmosphere of those. Wherever he went
and spoke to crowds he offered this
prescription for prosperity, security and
strength:
To get prosperity a people must take
off their coats and work hard. If they are
not prepared to do it they will go without
prosperity. They will also go down, for
a certainty The answer to the building
of the new world lies in work, and that
affects national character —No. 1 in the
make-up of a strong nation.
There was no doubt about the response
of those who heard him. And yet, as
he made his rapid tour of industrial
centres, our visitor could not have failed
to see symptoms of work-shy fever.
Although Mr. Chifley has denied a
report that he is going in for “fireside
chats,” on'the Roosevelt model, he might
well try just one plain-speaking address
of the sort. Lord Montgomery has both
given him the text and demonstrated that
a reasoned call to hard work need not
bring a leader into disfavor with the mob.
Mr. Chifley has some cause to examine
his stewardship as he enters upon the
third year of his period as Prime Minister.
It was to him that his late leader gave,
in 1942, first charge of the newly-created
Ministry of Post-war Reconstruction, and
he must be aware that post-war recon-
struction has badly fallen down, to a
large extent because hard work has been,
and is being, treated as “a mug’s game.”
“Labor” politicians, union leaders and
masses of unionists appear to believe
(1) that Australia is rich enough to carry
on without hard work, or (2) that the
work-shy can suffer no penalty because
a Government “temperamentally-fitted”
will be there to lean on, or (3) that a de-
pression is bound to come and hard work
now will exhaust in advance the demand
for that commodity. The Prime Ministei
promised a Golden Age, then spoke of
an approaching “recession,” qualifying
this warning by saying it would come
“unless Labor plays its part.” What
Field-Marshal Montgomery has covertly
shown him is that he has got to speak
more plainly than that.
Mr. Chifley has revived for early next
month the convocation of that “peace
in industry” conference at Canberra the
suggestion of which fell very flat 18
months ago. The conference is to be
attended by manufacturers and by repre-
sentatives of the A.C.T.U. Other wage-
payers will not be there. But the senti-
ments of all of them have not changed
greatly since the meeting was last pro-
posed, and probably for much the same
reason. One employer, whom the Prime
Minister questioned at that time, asked
whether the proposed conference could
produce him one extra ton of coal a
week; if not it would be sheer waste of
time. For peace in industry the first re-
quisite is industry : “Without Being, Well-
being is impossible,”
On all sides there are signs of a grave
decline in essential production, and of
serious inflation in prices of goods and
services. The appalling blunder of the
40-hour week at this time has knocked
the props away from all cover-up devices,
In coalmining, shipping, cargo-lumping,
engineering and heavy industries, trans-
port services and building trades, the
effect of the 40-hour week on top of
the doctrinaires’ spread-the-work, go-
slow campaign is already calamitous'.
In N. S. Wales the fatuous Mr.
Hamilton Knight may now survey the
i chaos produced by the legislation which
; a few short weeks ago he declared would
i restore contentment in industry without
i reducing production. He and all other
. “Labor” sponsors of quack remedies for
• industrial ills —less work, more pay and
i “nationalisation of industries” were
i confronted last week with a strike of
■ the State dockyard employees at New-
castle as a direct result of the Hamilton
' Knight law: a strike for job-control,
; and evidently they will end by getting it.
1 But this is only one bit of evidence of
, the certain failure of “Labor’s” Greater
i Australian co-prosperity through appease-
ment of the unions,
Mr. Calwell, one of the four Ministers
and Ministerial parties overseas, is
astonished to find that even his efforts
in Britain cannot charter immigrant
ships for more than a few hundred of
the hundreds of thousands alleged by
him to be waiting. And “there is now
only one U.S. ship on the Australian
run.” The news, of course, has got
abroad that for any pretext the Com-
munists ruling the waterfront choose
to concoct whole fleets of ships may be
tied up indefinitely in Australian ports.
A world overseas, working desperately
to save itself from collapse through war-
exhaustion, naturally wants available
ships for useful service.
In the first quarter of this year N.S.W.
coal production was 229,000 tons less
than in the first quarter of 1946, a
bad year. The Commonwealth Statis-
tician reports that home-building in the
first three months of this year declined
by 14 per cent, on the figures for the
preceding quarter. Lysaghts produced
200,000 tons of galvanised-iron sheets in
1939 and in the early war years. With a
great unsatisfied demand for housing
materials in every State, only 143,000 tons
was turned out in 1945 and still less in
1946 ; and Rylands have orders for a
brand of wire-netting that, at the pre-40-
hour-week rate of production, will “take
220 weeks to fulfil.”
As for bricks, the Commonwealth
Statistician has just shown that numbers
of brickyard employees are still only 70
per cent, of those working in 1939, and
that they arfc producing only 149 bricks
per pound of wages paid against 331
bricks in 1939. And that production of
bricks costs £5 a thousand today, though
it was under £3 7s. in 1939. It is
common gossip that the one sure way to
get a small line of building materials
delivered is to bet somebody anything
from £2O up that he can’t deliver it.
As for gentlemen-toilers who con-
descended to fashion these materials into
a house when preliminary difficulties have
been overcome, “S. M. Herald’s” housing
correspondent, who has been doing a use-
ful job, has made this note:
Since 1939 men in the building industries
have secured a fortnight’s paid annual
leave; 10-minute morning- and afternoon-
tea breaks; increased fare allowances from
2s. 6d. to 6s. a week where travel is nine
miles or more; increased country allow-
ances to about two guineas a week; one
day’s pay compensation for travelling to
a country job (20 miles radius); and now
the 40-hour week —39 when tea-breaks and
wash-up time are counted. Federal awards
also give men a quarter-hour daily travel-
ling time paid as work, and have also
abolished hods and hod-carrying.
And Mr. McGirr, having thrown the 40-
hour week into this arena of leisurely and
munificent employment, has the hide to
tell the public that his Government is
going to build 90,000 houses in the three
years now current. Why, in the six years
since 1941 the N.S.W. Housing Com-
mission, under Mr. McGirr himself, com-
pleted exactly 8687, and that with
vociferous notice of the coming demand.
It is part of the bureaucratic make-believe
in this housing business that the N.S.W.
Commission, in announcing performance
upon a programme “involving the con-
struction” of 17,287 homes (in six years),
includes homes begun or “approved for
early building.” In the same vein the
Federal Housing Minister now pretends
that the “target” of 42,000 houses for all
Australia in 1946-47 meant “houses be-
gun,” and that his Ministry has therefore
measured up to its political contract.
Meanwhile in all Government trans-
port services, in the great steelworks,
in retail shops and eating-houses, the
unions are demanding general five-day-
week conditions, with no work at all on
Saturdays or Sundays. N.Z. housewives
are already organising to protest against
this unwarranted hardship of a dead
Saturday. It might be a good thing to
give the mob a substantial dose of this
medicine, and bring everything to a
standstill for the two week-end days:
sporting fixtures, trams, trains, hotels
and all. Then we should see where the
national interest lies and even the interest
of unionists themselves.
Yet the people cheered Lord Mont-
gomery’s sentiments and in his parting
farewell message to Australia he rammed
them home. His last words were: “The
true and ultimate strength of a nation
lies in its people, in their virility, in their
capacity to work.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Exit Unification.
In 1943 a one-Parliament-for-Australia
party tried its luck at the polls.
Though it fared badly and forthwith
disappeared, it had the right idea, and
many people still favor the idea_ cis an
idea. But there is now no possibility of
its being realised within any measurable
distance of time ; and the fact has to be
faced. We shall have to make the best
of the Federal system, meanwhile work-
ing for a precise separation of Com-
monwealth and State powers and for re-
moval of the barriers to the admission ot
new States,
In the course of 58 years 10 States,
formed out of other States and Federal,
territories (North Dakota, South Dakota,
Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Washington,
Utah, Oklahoma, Arizona and New
Mexico), have been set up in the U.S.A.,
and Hawaii and Alaska, if not Puerto
Rico, are soon to be added to the 48.
Australia has' only the six with which
the Commonwealth began in 1901. And
in the first of the six there is an ex-
cessive concentration of population and
power, added to dangerously in lawless
forms by the Communist conspiracy,
which has its headquarters in Sydney.
“Labor” has in no way resisted this
Communist conspiracy. Ignominious in
this respect, it has established a Caucus
despotism in the central Parliament and
a vast and spreading bureaucracy which
itself has invoked and is exercising vex-
atious and menacing powers. Unifica-
tion has had great results in South
Africa; it may indeed have saved that
country from a civil war. But in Aus-
tralia, under the present set-up, it would
mean everything being run from Can-
berra, save what is run from Sydpey by
Communists. And no unificationist who
believes in; free institutions and loves his
country would condemn it to the evil
works of a trinity of despotisms.
With union under one Parliament, if
men and institutions are to be free, there
must be safeguards for individual free-
dom, beginning with the freedom to earn
a living, and for regional and local gov-
ernment. Such safeguards as have
hitherto existed are disappearing, and
there would be none if “Labor” and its
friends and auxiliaries had their way.
“Labor” has made a practice of per-
mitting union bosses not only to take
away the citizen rights of individual
members of unions but to punish them
savagely, and to hound them out of their
callings, for proposing to work lawfully
for arbitration-award wages. And at the
moment “Labor” is trying to force State
Governments and municipal councils by
Caucus enactment to transfer their bank-
ing business to the Commonwealth
Bank. In Queensland it stands accused
of engaging in intra-State trade contrary
to the spirit, if not the letter, of the
Constitution; this per mediurri of a
socialistic airline concern which, as Mr.
Fadden puts it, “pays no tax or landing
charges and is used as a grossly unfair
cut - rate competitor of privately-
operated airlines,” such as have been
allowed to exist (in Queensland many
private applications for airline licences
have been refused or held up); “to put
them out of business, regardless of the
final cost to the taxpayer.”
And in N. S. Wales “Labor” is
trying to wipe out scores of muni-
cipal councils, regardless of the rights
of the ratepayers, who were never
consulted, and for many thousands
of whom, since all municipal employees
are to be kept on payrolls and provident
municipalities are to be arbitrarily
joined to the improvident or insolvent, it
will mean a thumping rise in rates.
No ; union under one Parliament will
have to be abandoned until “Labor” is
relegated to insignificance or restored to
sanity. As things are it would be a leap
into the dark of worse despotisms, prob-
ably tempered by worse anarchy.
War and Murder.
Warnings accumulate that the Aus-
tralian “Government” should look to its
defences instead of dreaming idle dreams.
What is happening in Greece is only
one warning. In Eastern Asia, from
Northern Manchuria to Java, within an
hour or so of Australia’s northern shores,
there is an outbreak of assassination, war
and terrorist disturbance of the kind
which invariably goes with Communist
agitation and the struggle for the “brother-
hood of man” as conceived in Moscow.
In China, the State Council has decreed
total mobilisation to deal with Russian-
armed Communist forces. In Seoul, in
the Russian zone of Korea, the police
spent the week-end searching —not very
hard apparently—for the assassin of a
party leader “uncongenial” to the Rus-
sian Administration.
In Burma, three men armed with Sten
sub-machine-guns broke into an Execu-
tive Council meeting and murdered seven
Ministers and a secretary. Among them
was General Aung San, deputy chairman
of the Executive Council, and Minister
for External Affairs and Defence. He
was the strong man in the Burmese in-
dependence movement —too strong for
the Communist minority and some of
the more violent Japanese collaborators.
In Indonesia, the Dutch Lieut.-
Governor, Dr. Van Mook, has been
authorised by the Netherlands States-
General to open hostilities with the
Japanese-trained and -armed Indonesian
forces, which have been waging a shoot-
ing war on thdir own account. The ex-
haustion of Dutch patience means, of
course, that not only the Indonesians but
the Communist-led unions of White Aus-
tralia will be at war with our friendly
white allies and will become aiders and
abettors of Asiatic barbarities.
All this comes at a time when the
Indian independence bill has passed the
House of Commons and when the Indian
armies and Indian Governments are
rapidly taking shape under the guidance
and with the full help of Viscount Mount-
batten and Generals Auchinleck and
Slim and others. Preparation of Indian
defence is, in fact, receiving first priority.
Last week more than 20 Indian regiments
were allotted between the two new
Dominions and Mr. Attlee stated in Par-
liament that the defence of the North-
West Frontier was being gravely con-
sidered by all parties involved.
Meanwhile the Chifley Government is
arranging to start recruiting militia boys
“next July.”
“BE A GOOD SCOUT!”
“Queenslanders, as well as South Australians, are signing a petition for the removal of
Mr. McKell, now Chief Scout as well as Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief."
“From Queensland, eh? Then you might suggest my good deed for today
— ha! ha!”
“Well, sir, father says you could resign.”
Righteousness Rampant.
Part of the liquor-‘“reform” measure
which Mr. McKell bequeathed to Mr.
McGirr before being translated to
Yarralumla provided for the licensing of
spotting and social clubs. Before this,
for as long as anybody could remember,
most of the clubs bought liquor and
doled it out to their members; and no-
body worried so long as the clubs re-
mained orderly and quiet, which they
nearly all did. There was anew issue
of club licences in Sydney. Straightway
Mr. McGirr and his Police Commis-
sioner Mac Kay burst forth with more
pronunciamentos in a week than any
little South American dictator issues in
a month.
Clubs would not be permitted to serve
liquor after 6 p.m. or on Sundays, Mem-
bers would not be permitted to buy the
stuff before 6 p.m. and drink it on the
premises. If any member was caught
doing so the club secretary would be
prosecuted and it would be no use trying
to see Mr. Mac Kay to “fix things up.”
Further, there could be no drinking on
club premises' on Christmas Day, elec-
tion days or other days on which pubs
were closed.
The clubs —returned-soldier, golfer,
bowler and the rest —protested. Mr.
McGirr arose, full of unction and
morality, to support Mr. Mac Kay. “The
people voted for six-o’clock closing at
the referendum,” boomed the paragon of
all the virtues. “The people are the
highest authority in this country and
they have spoken.”
The paragon overlooked the obvious
fact that, when the people voted for 6
p.m. closing, most of them never gave
the clubs a thought. Theirs was essen-
tially a vote against the pubs —a chance
to get even for years of abuse by the
booze interest. Nor did the paragon
mention little things like Sunday foot-
ball, with betting and chaffbags full ot
beer; one of “Labor’s” contributions to
culture. Nor was “the highest authority
in this country” consulted about increased
fares and freight-rates on its own
transport systems, brought to bank-
ruptcy under “Labor” administration,
to say nothing of day-baking, the 40-hour
week, the foundation of the Sydney lurt
Club and other things. And it was not
consulted on one of the most impudent
of all “Labor” manoeuvres! —the arbitrary
abolition of most of the municipalities
in the county of Cumberland, part of a
war on local self-government, which
“Labor” hates so much except where it
is or can be brought under “Labor
control.
Demagogues and Doctors.
Blowing hot and cold at a meeting of
the Macquarie A.L.P. Assembly in his
home town of Bathurst, the Prime
Minister pronounced the B.M.A. “hope-
lessly conservative” on the score of its
opposition to the free-medicine racket
and “nationalisation” of medical ser-
vices, but allowed that it has “the same
privilege as a trade-union,” being “the
doctors’ trade-union,” In other words,
though the B.MA.’S “outlook” is “not
attuned to modern ideas of public ser-
vice” (are Communist-controlled trade-
unions so “attuned”?), “if a union does
not want to do something it has a right
to instruct its members accordingly”;
and so with the B.M.A.
Dr. Hunter, the Federal secretary of
the 8.M.A., promptly denied that it
was a trade-union and “hopelessly con-
servative.” He pointed out that one-
third of its members served in the wars
“and the rest carried the extra heavy load
of civilian medical services” ; that it gave
medical Service to 600,000 members of
friendly societies and their families;
that it had co-operated from the be-
ginning in the Flying Doctor and Far
West health services ; had pioneered mass
inoculation against diphtheria and
“major hospital improvements,” giving
free treatment and attendance, and had
tried to persuade Governments “to re-
gard t.b. as the first priority health prob-
lem” —in vain, though “Labor” Govern-
ments are rolling in easy lottery money.
Dr. Hunter could have gone further and
cited the noble work done by members
of his association in Timor, the Jap hell-
camps, Papua, Borneo and the Man-
dated Territory, where they saved the
lives and health of many thousands of
servicemen ; but no doubt he wanted to
keep something up his sleeve.
There is no trace of “hopeless con-
servatism” in the achievement of Dr. E.
Forbes Mackenzie, of the B.M.A. and
the Victorian Health Department. Thirty-
five cases of diphtheria occurred at the
Melbourne Orphanage, and there were
another 20 cases in North Brighton.
Milk was suspected, and Dr, Mackenzie
started to track the germ down. He
found two carriers in the orphanage
dairy, but they were not the infecting
agents, and the inquiry was carried
further. The retail dairy supplying the
North Brighton neighborhood obtained
its milk from the same source as the
institution. As it traded under two
names, the inquiry was complicated.
Eventually the original sources' of infec-
tion were found in two carriers in the
dairy.
This rather wonderful bit of research
could not have been successful if the
long years of diphtheria immunisation
sponsored by the B.M.A. had not
narrowed the field down to controllable
dimensions. Immunisation was bitterly
fought by well-intentioned people, just
as< well-intentioned people are now fight-
ing against pasteurisation. Less than
one-third of Melbourne’s milk supply is
properly pasteurised. If the system were
enforced and made universal diphtheria
could probably be eliminated altogether.
Tuberculosis might also be within calcul-
able distance of extinction, if Govern-
ments, particularly easy-money-lottery
Governments, had been as keen on ex-
tinguishing it as on buying votes.
The "Oil* on Bricks.
The Commonwealth Statistician has
done a service to the community by sur-
veying the condition of the “brick, tile,
earthenware and pottery” industry, which
tells every would-be home-builder why
“Labor” housing promises are all moon-
shine. From a series of lucid tables these
comparisons are taken out of Dr. Wil-
son’s figures for the brick industry in
the two years 1938-39 and 1945-46: —
1938-39. 1945-46.
Number employees
(excluding working
owners) .. .. 10,258 7,283
Bricks produced .. 720,551,000 302,211,000
Value £2,407,000 £1,505,454
Value production (in-
cluding tiles, etc.) £3,514,000 £2,765,000
Value of bricks per
thousand .. .. £3/6/10 £4/19/8
Wages paid .. .. £2,178,000 £2,028,000
Ratio per cent, of
wages to value of
production .. .. 61.98 73.35
These figures permit the rough calcu-
lation (by aid, in part, of using the pro-
portions of brick value to total-produc-
tion value in the two periods) that for
every seven brickmakers employed in
1938-39 only four were employed in
1945-46, and that in
1938-9. 1945-46.
For each £ of
wages were
produced .. 483 bricks 268 bricks
Each brickmaker
produced in the
year .. .. 102,438 bricks 74,694 bricks
Number of bricks
for each £ of
produc tion
value . . . . 300 200
Brickmasters state that the 40-hour
week will reduce N.S.W. production by
half a million bricks a week. The union
has also reduced the daily working tally
from 22,000 per machine to 20,000.
After paying away 73.35 per cent, of
the “value of production” (or £2,028,000)
in wages: the brickmasters had to meet
from the remaining 26 per cent, taxa-
tion, interest, depreciation, insurance,
advertising and other sundry charges.
An addendum to this mournful story
may be affixed from the Federal Auditor-
General’s last report. In 1945-46 the
Canberra Government brickyard pro-
duced 3,628,464 bricks at a cost of
£20,268, which works out at 179 bricks
for each £1 of expenditure, or 1.34d.
each —much worse than the wretched all-
Australian tally. Even when the Prices
Commissioner obligingly allowed the
selling price per thousand for Canberra
commons to be raised to £5 5s. to cover
this cost of output the Canberra yards
lost £1588 for the year.
And in N. S. Wales the McGirr
promises that he and his Government
control will build more houses than
ever!
Catching Up.
“Lao-dah”; Moscow, when I visited it
before the 1914 war, was uncomfortably
crowded, and people could always be
found sleeping around shrines and monu-
ments in the public squares, although,
the weather was by no means balmy.
In 1928, the twelfth year of the Gory
Revolution, the position was worse, the
average dwelling space per head of urban
persons being 5.7 metres, equal to 14
persons living in an Australian four-
roomed house. And the completion of
the five-year plan found the city Russians
living in 4.65 square metres, equivalent
to 17 people living in an Australian villa.
A tremendous effort was made
with the second five-year plan, but less
than half of the target of new houses
was achieved. Today the average space
accorded to the “liberated” proletarian is
equivalent to 20 people living in the
average Australian dwelling. The 1947
achievement is behind the estimate, so
Russian housing is worse than it was be-
fore the Revolution. These are the Soviet
authorities’ own statistics.
Hence it was rather staggering to learn
that an official of the Australian Depart-
ment of the Interior was billed to deliver
a lecture at the Community Festival in
Melbourne on “developments” in town
planning in the U.S.S.R.
And isn’t this poaching on Post-War
Reconstruction’s preserves? Won’t Dr.
{Continued on page 14.)


€®a
i
6574
CRAVENA
are so diff©rent,
smooth, yet satisfy in;
iii
CARRERAS LTD.- OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
fd
Coombs be mad when he hears of it?
If he and Mr. Dedman are not bogged
down in Geneva, too busy with wool to
attend to anything else, won’t he cable
a protest? It can’t be denied that Dr.
Coombs knows as much about housing
as he knows about wool. For
evidence there are his own words on the
subject, spoken at a Sydney rally of the
Australian Association of Scientific
Workers, Communists being among the
other speakers:
No industry is as antiquated as the build-
ing industry. Here we have a chance to
bring about a Revolution. It will take us
two years to catch up on the housing
shortage, despite the fact that we are
planning a building programme twice as
big as the best pre-war years.
Date? May 28, 1944.
POLITICAL POINTS
W’hile N.S.W. Premier McGirr was
busy with plans for wiping out N.S.W.
municipalities wholesale without refer-
ence to the inhabitants, he came out with
“my reply to the agitation that the clubs
should be allowed to sell liquor after
6 p.m. on week days and on Sundays”:
We had a referendum on liquor trading
hours and the people, without any equivo-
cation, declared for six o’clock closing.
The voice of the people is the highest
authority in this country, and the people
have spoken. #
Splendid, and perhaps there was wild
cheering from all the habitues of all the
pubs in the McGirr family.
Chifley’s way of replying to Fadden’s
statement that there were 556,700 persons
on public payrolls in March, and in-
creasing by hundreds a day, was that
“only” 156,500 were Commonwealth
Government employees. “Only” 156,500!
As Commonwealth Year-Books testify,
“only” 88,000 more than in June, 1939,
and “only” 76,000 more than in June,
1938, when 10,000 part-timers were in-
cluded. The whole appalling business
has the appearance of a vast unem-
ployed-relief scheme in advance.
Fadden scored at Chifley’s expense by
revealing that the Federal civil service
has been increasing by 132 persons a day;
and the position is really worse than that.
Nearly 600 temporary officials have gone
from R.A.A.F. headquarters and hun-
dreds more are to go before the year is
out.
In Melbourne last week the Full High
Court heard argument for and against
the constitutionality of section 48 of
Federal “Labor’s” Banking Act, under
w'hich the “Government” has ordered
State Administrations and local bodies to
transfer their business to the Common-
wealth Bank and the trading banks to
give up that business “or else.” The
case for the S.A. and Westraiian Gov-
ernments and Melbourne City Council,
as reduced to a lucid phrase by the Chief
Justice, was that what they objected
to was “not legislation for banking but
legislation for States and State authori-
ties” ; and thus an abuse of the Consti-
tutional section (XIII of 51) empowering
the Commonwealth Parliament to make
laws for “banking other than State bank-
ing.” For the Commonwealth “Govern-
ment” and the Victorian “Government”
(yes, the Victorian “Government”) it was-
contended that the measure was really
“a boon to State banks,” being in
essence “an attack on the trading banks.”
To which counsel for the Victorian
“Government” added that his client
“conceived that the welfare of its citi-
zens would be best served by supporting
the legislation.” Judgment was reserved.
Australian National Airways is after
a Court injunction to restrain the Com-
monwealth “Government’s” T.-A.A- from
horning in on intra-State air traffic. If it
succeeds Qantas, now a Government
show, will be affected by Jaw as well as
strike. Before Qantas was “nationalised”
it never had a strike.
The A.A.P. service and at least some
dailies are not going to be caught out
again “misreporting” Ward. When it
came to reporting the whiner’s ineffectual
effort at amending a draft convention on
Social Policy in Colonial Territories, pre-
sented at the 1.L.0. picnic meeting in
Geneva, nearly all the papers that printed
the A.A.P. report omitted any mention
of Ward’s name. There was only one
exception.
It was here remarked (B. 16/7/’47)
that Queensland was getting some atten-
tion from Canberra, Commonwealth
Bank Governor Armitage having pro-
mised it a rash of branch buildings and
P.M.G. Cameron the spending of
£7,900,000 or so on new postal “facili-
ties” with Ward’s great railway plan
still mentioned occasionally ; very occa-
sionally. Now Chifley is descending
on the State with the intention of reach-
ing out to Longreach and up to Cairns.
Queenslanders are musing on the drift
of these things. They have the only
Opposition Senators at Canberra.
Roland Wilson, the Commonwealth
Statistician, must be an annoyance to
“Labor” Premiers and Housing Ministers.
Breaking into fulsome declarations by
these gentlemen about the number of
houses they’re building and the progress
their “schemes” are making, Wilson
coldly announced on July 9 a slump of
nearly 14 p.c. in the number of houses
built in the first quarter qf 1947 compared
with the last quarter of 1946. This de-
spite the fact that the labor force
building—or not building—the houses is
nearly thrice what it was at the end of
the Japanese war.
In February three ferocious animals
aged 18, 20 and 21 caught and raped
a domestic who’d gone for a walk in
Rockhampton (Q.), leaving her not only
outraged but battered and dead.
Arrested, they offered no defence and,
upon a sentimental jury returning a ver-
dict of manslaughter, Judge Brennan
—holding himself bound by what he
called a “lenient finding”—sentenced each
of them to seven years. It was too strong
for the Crown to stomach, even in a
State where Labor yoomanitarianism
abolished the death sentence. On appeal,
the sentences were increased to 15 years
in each case. It was a hanging case if
ever there was one.
Victoria’s Cain is threatening that
unless his State gets a bigger Federal
grant out of the Premiers’ Conference
next month, he’ll start a State lottery.
Whether he’d be allowed to do it is an-
other matter —Victorians, like South
Australians, have strong objections to
this form of Government gambling—•
but there’s an idea in it. If all the State
Governments start running lotteries—four
of them are already in the degrading busi-
ness—the competition could become
great enough- to wipe them all, out.
Good-as-“ Labor” Wilson, Ward's
nominee for Administrator of Norfolk
Island over the heads of scores of service-
men with superior claims, is back in
Australia fuming over an Auckland pro-
posal that his principality should be trans-
ferred to New Zealand. There is a
strong case for the transfer, since Nor-
folk Island is 900 miles from Sydney
and only 400 miles from N.Z., and was
garrisoned by N.Z. troops when the
islanders were still reeling under the
shock of Ward’s proposal that all islands
not under Australian administration in
1901 should be out of bounds for called-
up men. Wilson asserts that any pro-
posal for cession to N.Z. “would receive
a very hostile reception” from the
islanders. Imagination boggles at pictur-
ing those mild creatures forming into
mobs, perhaps led by‘Charlie Rosenthal,
of Mont St. Quentin, and shouting “We
want Ward and Wilson.”
Calwell has found a friend on the
Montreal “Gazette” who certifies that he
is “making arrangements for 400,000
British to emigrate to Australia.” Four
thousand would be nearer the mark, and
none of “Labor’s” bookmaker friends
would lay odds against there being more
arrivals of Britons than Jews during the
year to December 31.
The only response by Queensland’s
“ ‘Labor’ Government” to years of public
complaint and protest against its slow,
dirty, uncomfortable and expensive pas-
senger trains has been an all-round in-
crease in fares. Beginning with an extra
2d. on all fares up to 25., a heavy weekly
slug for many suburban families, it has
added 7s. 9d. to the former second-class
single fare from Brisbane to Cairns. The
Cloncurry, Mt. Isa and Mt. Cuthbert areas
are worse off still. With the Brisbane
Show less than a month ahead it will
result in a substantial haul from visitors
from the outback to whom the Show
affords their only holiday of the year.
Every British seaman who reaches
New Zealand gets an order good for two
pounds of N.Z. butter on his return to
the United Kingdom. In advertising
terms the cost is next to nothing, but to
many a fat-hungry Briton it turns a reso-
lution of the N.Z. Producers’ Association,
that the first duty of the Dominion farmer
is to stick to the Mother Country
“through thick and thin,” into something
real and human.
Melbourne “Argus” has a man in New
York who tracked down a so-called
“Jewish Joint Distribution Committee”
which, says it helped 675 Jews to
reach Australia from Shanghai, and is
“trying to facilitate passages for other
displaced persons to Australia from
Europe.”
The officials of the committee, the largest
Jewish welfare organisation in the U.S.A.,
state that they have been attempting since
the end of the war to move some of the
thousands of displaced persons from Ger-
man and Austrian refugee camps to Aus-
tralia. The recent easing in the shipping
situation has given them hope that hundreds
may soon be moved to Australia.
Since that appeared another lot of
Shanghai Jews has arrived. It is nothing
to their “Labor” protectors that a fierce
anti-British resolution was passed at a
meeting of Shanghai Jews.
After a slight lull Melbourne’s week-
end road casualty list has once more
mounted, Governmental threats of what
is going to be done to the hog-in-the-car
remaining threats. A newspaper corres-
pondent has suggested that the cars of
all serious offenders against traffic rules
be imprisoned ; chained and left in some
open space exposed to all weathers for
the period of sentence pronounced on
their owners. Far too drastic a proposal
for any ‘Labor’ Government” to
accept.
A commentary on the Chifley “Gov-
ernment’s” proposal to “nationalise”
medicine is the arrival in Melbourne of
two English doctors, one with six
children, to start practice. Along with
thousands of other doctors, they resent
the British Government’s “nationalisa-
tion” policy, which, they think, will de-
stroy the absolutely essential “doctor-
patient” relationship. When they learn
that they have hopped out of the frying-
pan into the fire their language is likely
to be as unprofessional as a quack’s
diagnosis.
A nasty one for Chifley’s pet Lem-
mon from the Katanning (W.A.) branch
of the Farmers’ Union, closing some
correspondence:
The branch decided to inform Mr.
Lemmon that it considered him to be more
concerned with the interests of New Zea-
land farmers than of those who returned
him to Parliament, and that he was not
representing their interests.
Katanning is one of the nine subdivisions
of Forrest, fourth in point of population.
When Chifley lifted his wage-pegs he
said he didn’t see why prices of goods
and services should rise also and would
expect manufacturers and other em-
ployers to keep them down. Then his
“Government” removed the price-control
ban on State Governments and local
authorities running transport, fuel and-
lighting services, and there ensued a race
between Cain (admitted 1946-47 railway
loss, £1,600,000) and McGirr {he admits
a loss of £1,500,000) to see who wouldn’t
get in first with increased railway charges.
Meanwhile tram fares are up in N. S.
Wales, railway fares in Queensland.
It is not only unwarrantable but illegal
to prevent Australians taking U.S.
Army Air Force jobs in Guam for
longer than six months. Though pay-
ment of income-tax may be required be-
fore embarkation, there are no other
tenable legal restrictions on the departure
of free, white Australians from their
native country for as long as they please
or on their return when they please. As
to that the High Court, quoted by a con-
temporary, has laid it down as “unim-
peachable” that “a person cannot be an
immigrant into a country which is his
home.” Association with Communists
seems to have given “Labor” the Com-
munist idea that all citizens are prisoners
of the Government.
Lang’s “Century,” discussing how and
where the money goes, puts some “typi-
cal examples” up to Chifley for in-
quiry ;
Dispatch of Navy Minister Riordan’s car
from Sydney to Cairns so that the Minister
will have a uniformed chauffeur and car
when he visits his electorate.
Dispatch of a car and driver from
Canberra to Sydney for taking a Minister’s
child to and from school each day.
Use of Ministerial cars to take members
duck-shooting.
Dispatch of a car from Sydney to
Brisbane for the use of the President of
the Senate, Gordon Brown, and the
occasions on which it has travelled be-
tween Brisbane and distant seaside resorts
with the Senator’s family.
Dispatch of a chauffeur-driven car from
Sydney to the northern coalfield for
the use of Rowley James, so-called liaison
officer with the miners, although his
functions have long disappeared.
Lang’s paper admits that the P.M. him-
self is “not an offender,” But what a
whale he is on trips for others, Com-
munists included!
An investigation into the cost of
houses made by the Property Owners’
Association of Victoria has brought into
the limelight the blessings of half-baked
Socialism in action. A house which in
1939 cost £684 to build in Victoria now
costs about £1214, if you can get the
materials to build it. Carpenters’ wages
in the meantime have increased from
£5 19s. a week to £8 155., and there have
been similar increases for plumbers, brick-
layers, tilers and painters. What the
investigators didn’t mention is that
alleged dwellings are getting flimsier and
flimsier and are unlikely to last out the
time it will take their alleged owners to
buy them by weekly instalments.
Melbourne municipal councils had
their slum-reclamation powers taken from
them in 1937 and handed over to the
Housing Commission. Father Tucker’s
film made recently shows that the situ-
ation is, if anything, worse than it was
then. Housing Minister Barry now talks
of calling the councils together to map
out a programme for slum abolition and
replacement of houses. At least under
municipal control houses were occasion-
ally condemned or owners compelled to
make improvements.
From a “Harper’s” article, “The Lost
Liberals,” by John Fischer, who went to
Russia for U.N.R.R.A. and returned with
no illusions left:
The United States is too big to be run
out of Washington. That lesson was
hammered into the skulls of everybody who
had any intimate dealings with our war-
time bureaucracy; it may be the most
valuable lesson we got out of the war.
Same here, John; except that here the
lesson has been insufficiently learned.


SECOND THOUGHTS ARE BEST.
“General, I assure you I am not going to scold you.”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
Ciooter”: I took my 14-year-old son
into Sydney to buy him a suit of clothes.
Sydney is a city fond of proclaiming its
I 4 million inhabitants, its modern shops,
its facilities, industries, amusements, cul-
ture and pretty well everything else, even
unto £12,000 lotteries. After two hours
we retired, beaten, having seen about two
suits that no self-respecting boy would
wear. We received a stereotyped answer
at almost every shop: “Haven’t a suit
in the place. Won’t be any in before
August.” After rest and refreshment we
renewed the search in the inner suburbs.
Nothing doing. Finally, to preserve the
lad s sense of decency, we compromised
on a “sports” coat and a pair of slacks.
Two days later I met Sam, who was
accompanied by a sprucely-suited lad of
14. Sam does not live in Sydney and
isn’t impressed by its 1} million inhabit-
and so forth. After the greetings
inevitable to a meeting of friends who’ve
been parted for years and an introduc-
tion to Sam’s son, I couldn’t help asking,
“Where did you get him the suit?”
“Bogan Gate,” replied Sam. Bogan Gate
is a village of some 600 or 700 people,
and doesn’t make a fuss about its one
pub, couple of stores, school, garage or
railway station where a train a day goes
through. There must be a moral or an
analogy or a contrast or something in
this, but I’m too weary to work it out.
* * * *
Wusslean”: Now that the census man
has been and gone, how many “heads of
the household” are prepared to maintain
the fiction, spread by newspaper column-
ists and cartoonists, that it imposed a
laborious, lengthy and unwarrantable
task on the householder? The house-
holder’s form contained a single page of
questions with a couple of pages of ex-
planatory matter and a specimen set of
answers. Nothing was asked that could
not be instantly called to mind by the
ordinary citizen, though female “heads’’
may have had a little uncertainty about
ages. And there was nothing asked that
could not be justified for statistical pur-
poses, or that could be construed as an
impertinent intrusion into private affairs.
Filling in and checking particulars for
my household of five persons took 35
minutes. For the average householder,
skilled after six years of war-time and
two years of post-war form-filling, the
census must have been child’s play, tak-
ing no longer-and requiring far less
mental effort than the daily-paper cross-
word.
* * * *
“Deakin Ave.”: We pulled the old
striped-paint gag on a raw youth. He
vanished and for a week police, parents
and the boss searched in vain. Sleuthing,
we found that the chemist to whom he
was first dispatched had passed him on
to a general store. From the store the
trail led to a photographer’s, thence to
a paint shop, a hardware store, a garage,
and, finally, to a butchery. “Gawd,” said
the butcher, “I told the silly little cow
he wouldn’t get it this side of Woome-
lang.” Woomelang was over 100 miles
away but that’s where he was all right.
Brought home, he confessed that he’d
“waked up” at the butcher’s and, in
retaliation, had decided to have a trip
to Woomelang, anyhow. It cost the boss
the train fare, the lad’s wages for a week
and a row with the union.
*** * *
“Maroomba,” from Peel Island:
“Puyyaka’s” grim forebodings on leprosy in
Queensland (B. 18/6/’47) have no foundation
m fact. While it is true that there has been
a slow but steady increase in the number of
known cases it does not mean that leprosy
is spreading but that it is being recognised
o?°5 e .i. often ‘ This is supported by the fact
that the average age of white patients in the
lazaret is increasing, for we know that when
leprosy is spreading the proportion of children
found to be suffering from the disease increases.
In Queensland the first appearance of symptoms
occurs far more frequently after 40 than before.
Children do not come into contact with those
over 60 years of age in the same way as they
would come in contact with their parents or
school mates, and as the disease is relatively
rare among white children here cases in the
20-60 years group are most likely to spread
the disease. How long these old people have
been infected before the appearance of symp-
toms is not easy to determine, though the
probability is that the infection has been of
long standing and only old age allows the
disease to advance sufficiently for symptoms
to P/^ ent themselves. What “Puyyaka” calls
a fell disease” is probably in the least in-
fectious grade of the communicable diseases,
and now that the modern sulphone therapy is
being used in Australia it should not be with
us much longer.
* * * *
“Junius”; When a master returns to
teach at the school he attended as a boy
some ticklish situations arise. Busy at
the time-honored occupation of per-
petuating my name in two-inch letters
on the lid of my desk, I sensed a presence
“Every dog has his day!”
at my elbow. It was “Creepy,” who had
come up noiselessly on crepe-s'oled shoes
from his vantage point at the back of
the class. His entirely rhetorical ques-
tion about what I was doing brought an
equally superfluous confession. How-
ever, I had previously noted “Creepy’s”
name incised in larger and deeper
characters just above my own, and drew
his attention with (as I imagined) ready
wit to the precedent thus established.
“Quite so,” said “Creepy” judicially.
“And if you will now come with me I’ll
demonstrate to* you exactly what I got
for it.” There were giants in those days
I decided later.
• * * *
“Col M.”: U.N.O. was electing a
president for the Trusteeship Council,
the runners being Sayre, of U.S.A.,
Nervo, of Mexico, and Australia’s
Hodgson, They finished in that order,
polling five, three and one votes. Where-
upon Colonel Hodgson arose and gravely
announced:
Mr. President: One vote is always
suspect. I want to make it clear on the
record that tire Australian delegate posi-
tively did not vote for himself.
Then was a precedent established in the
solemn chambers of U.N.O. Somebody
laughed.
* * * H=
“Camsa”: S.A. also had its problem
of a woman attending a Governor’s
levee (B. 25/6/’47). It was in Lord
Cowrie’s time and the woman was Agnes
K. Goode, then a St. Peter’s coun-
cillor. She rang the Governor’s secre-
tary, Legh Winser, to ask if she could
attend. He said yes. But when the levee
came off and Mrs. Goode was still some
distance from the Governor an aide
approached and begged her to leave. A
few days later at a meeting of the Jus-
tices’ Association, which the Governor
attended, Mrs. Goode being present as
a member, the Governor sent for her
and expressed his regrets at being unable
to receive her at the levee. He told her
he had cabled London and had been in-
formed the levees were for “gentlemen
only.” Mrs. Goode replied: “Yes
Your Excellency, that is what stung. On
that score there should have been quite
a few removals besides my own.” Mrs.
Goode once stood for the Assembly
One of her opponents was the late Bi
Denny. . “Ah, Bill said ; “Agnes Knigh
Goode. After the poll it will be Gooc
night, Agnes”—and it was.
* * * *
“Eve”: Always an obliging girl,
would run all over town for people wh
wanted “messages” done but wouldn’t do
them for themselves. Then I woke up and
suggested casually “You’d better give m
my tram fares.” It was delightful to
watch the reactions. Gradually the
number of messages lessened; since Me
Girr put the extra penny on they’ve
ceased altogether.
* * * *
“Yair”: It was a brisk conversation
in the greengrocer’s store, but I still
can’t follow the workings of the
female’s mind. She said “Got any sweet
lemons?” The greengrocer said “No
Missus, but I’ve got some sour oranges.”
“No thanks,” said she, “I’ll take a pound
of beans instead.”
* * * *
“Repatriate”; I was present at that
presentation of flags to the cathedral at
Dogura (B. 25/6/’47). With Air-Com-
modore Walters, I flew from Moresby
to Dogura, where the mission has a
small landing strip—our Anson was the
first aircraft for two years to use it.
When we finished running through the
long kunai grass she looked like a chaff-
cutter. The grass was level with the
wings and the props were wrapped in
kunai when we stepped out. Hundreds
of natives rushed out to meet us, and
Father Bodger came down in the mis-
sion jeep to take us to H.Q. Bishop
Strong called the natives to the cathedral
after lunch and at an impromptu ser-
vice the R.A.A.F. standard was pre-
sented to the Bishop of New Guinea for
dedication. After it was dedicated: I had
the honor of placing it in the sanctuary.
where it hangs today. An interesting
feature of the Cathedral of St. Peter
and St. Paul is the link of fellowship
with other British cathedrals. On each
archway is a block of stone from Canter-
bury and other Anglican cathedrals in
England and Australia. One stone, set
in the east wall behind the high altar
came from the Cathedral of Calcutta,
and is a reminder of the days when the
whole Anglican communion in Australia
was part of the Calcutta diocese.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Railway Commissioners owe
a debt of gratitude to Father Divine,
the fantastic negro whose cult of hearty
praying and heartier eating has ad-
herents even in Australia. Among his
Emets is making reparation for past sins.
This moved one of his disciples to send
thfe Victorian Commissioner a one-pound
note the other day, the latest of many.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Dyed -in - the -
wool) conservatives are to be met in
everything. A Sydney group of old
cronies still play bridge by the rules of
40 years ago. Spades was then the lowest
suit' it scored two per trick, with four
six and eight for the other suits and 12
for no trumps. But it was possible to
declare royal spades” at nine a trick; it
became so common to put the royalty
on that ordinary spades were forgotten.
Indignantly refusing to consider inno-
vations, these players have stuck to those
old rules ; their search for a player to
substitute for one of the group who was
sick brought the card troglodytes to my
knowledge. Now I shan’t be surprised
to meet some people who still play the
old chesse, which was what the game
previously known was called when in-
creased importance given to the queen
and bishops made a practically new
game. But it is more than four and a
half centuries ago since that change was
made.
* * * *
“Minto”: “Momokan’s” yarn (B.
2/7/’47) reminds me of a trip I made
from New Guinea with Jap prisoners.
Our Douglas, built to seat 21, left
Moresby with 42 emaciated Japs, plus
three guards. The Nips’ one concern was
to get to Australia, and whfcn we sighted
Cape Melville they were overjoyed
though they’d reached their own horn
land. No food was ready for them
Townsville when we landed, so af
take-oft we radio’d Rockhampton for
meals; regulations forbade mention
prisoners. It was the practice of t
ladies of Rocky to provide meals 1
transients at the airfield, and this and
they turned on something special. Porte
house steaks were soon sizzling bi
when the good ladies saw Japs filing
to eat them they were flabbergasted,
asked one Nip if he liked Austral
Hl was too busy with his porterhouse
answer,, but his eyes said “my oath.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: In Maoriland the oth
day Charlie Wong Chuck, like M
Bumble, discovered that “the law’s
hass and a double hass.” Waylaid
a gang of ruffians, Chuck was robb
of over five hundred pounds. Arres
were made, and trial evidence showed th
the sum stolen was in U.S. dollars whic
Charlie had hoarded since the Doug
boys’ visit. The upshot was a chari
against Wong of dealing in foreig
currency. The Beak, considering tl
severe handling Charlie had undergon
inflicted a fine of a quid.
* * * *
Spokeshave”; Fierce opposition
likely to the Russell-street proposal tha
there should be universal fingerprintin
of the entire Victorian population, begii
nmg with new-born babies, who, how
ever, through their habit of sucking the
thumbs and the lack of definition in the
markings, will have to render up the
footprints. Ihe Russell-street system
comprehensive. Fresh fingerprints wi
be taken at various stages.from childhoo
to adulthood, and an army of official
will be required to tabulate them and
keep the records. I admit the plan ha
its advantages, but they would be mor
than offset by the regrettable ejtfensioi
of bureaucratic interference with the
liberty of the person.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Sculptor Epstein isn’t likely to
be surprised if he hears Ballarat ha
refused a suggestion that the Statuary
Committee should get him to carve
statue for its public gardens—he has been
used to rebuffs from the day his first big
commission at the B.M.A. building ii
the Strand was unveiled to a staggerer
London. Policemen took notes and
churchmen denounced the work as an
affront to the Christian conscience. A
similar uproar occurred over Epstein’s
“Genesis.” A showman bought the
sculpture and it toured England, stirring
up frenzied controversy in every county.
One councillor remarked over the Bal-
larat proposal that he was totally op-
posed to any attempt to obtain an Ep-
stein statue and was quite satisfied with
what Ballarat has already in “its magnifi-
cent collection.” One thing is certain.
Nobody goes to Ballarat to see “its mag-
nificent collection,” but hundreds would
go to see an Epstein.
* * * *
“Youanmi’*; Those courteous phone
girls (B. 2/7/’47)? Last summer I found
a remunerative fishing spot in .Sydney
Flarbor and spent every Sunday making
early-morning assaults on the red bream.
An inveterate spine-basher and immune
to alarm clocks, I arranged with the
P.M.G. service to put through an early-
morning call. It was very successful —
the consistent ringing of the phone suc-
ceeded where an alarm clock had failed,
and the girl’s cheery “Good morning”
just started the day right. On the second
occasion I mentioned that I was going
fishing and the third Sunday she asked
me how I had fared. A couple of weeks
later she told me that her boy friend
recommended a certain spot (no, I’m not
spilling it) up Middle Harbor for bream,
and I’ve since had several good fish
dinners as the result of that tip.
* * * *
“H.G.”: Among the other curiosities
to interest the visitor who gets so far
is the frieze in the parlor of the West
Coast Hotel, Cooktown (N.Q.). Done
by Garnet Agnew, it depicts the Palmer
goldfields rush back in the wild old days
when Cooktown boasted a population
of 25,000 whites and 30,000 Chinamen.
The whole story of gold fever is there —
the emigrant saying goodbye to his family
in the Old Country before going out to
the “colonies” to make his fortune; the
trek to the goldfields ; the fossicker, the
prospector, harpies, beggars, hold-up
men, murderers, pickpockets, the inevi-
table Chinaman, and then, with the pro-
gress of the field, the parson and the
speculator. Central character of the
golden drama is the prospector, grown
old in his quest of fortune, deliriously
spilling the glittering metal through his
fingers into the dish and, at last realising
his dream, the figure of Death bending
over his shoulder. In an adjacent room
the scene is brought up-to-date, depicting
the main old-time identities of Cook-
town’s' remaining population of 300 in
characteristic attitudes singing “Auld
Lang Syne.”
IN SEARCH OF ATMOSPHERE.
„ . r - clllfle y said Dr. Evatt was going to Japan
not to quarrel with General MacArthur but to
the ri ,ei;t understanding of' the atmosphere
ana the psychological attitude of that country.”
Our Ministers must travel far
On various objectives bent,
though what those same objectives are
is often far from evident.
But here you have, clear-cut, the plan
For sending Evatt to Japan.
Calwell, we read, has bustled round
From Scandinavia to France
To ascertain where might be found
The likeliest sort of immigrants,
Only to find the cupboard bare,
Neither with any such to spare.
And Eddie Ward, cheer-chasing Ed.,
In Europe, too, some task has got
to push our interests ahead,
Though precious few could tell you what,
Beyond the means it may afford
Of advertising Eddie Ward.
But now we definitely know,
What we were never told before,
the reason why the Doc. must go
«To yet another distant shore
For a fresh chapter in what he
May justly term his Odyssey.
Rest well assured, there’s nothing farther
Trom our much-travelled envoy’s thought
lhan getting tough with Doug. MacArthur,
Our tried and trusty friend, for aught
Die latter may have done or no
In managing his present show.
Cross words it’s true there may have been
Concerning phosphates, whales et al.
What matter now the question’s seen
As mainly psychological,
And Evatt’s off to get a clear
Line on the Nippon atmosphere.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Minto”: Waiting in the office of a
Government bigwig for the inevitable
fila I was embarrassed to watch his lace
grow redder and redder as he listened
on the phone. At last he got a word
in. “Look here,” he bellowed, “you can
call me a rogue. You can call me a
fool. But don’t you go calling me a
bureaucrat.”
* * * *
“Zake”; Well, well! To think of the
times a burly cop has snarled “Over into
the kerb!” prior to flashing his note-
book, and others when, talking on a city
corner with some cronies, 1
peremptorily ordered to “move on,” and
yet I could have turned round and said
“Who are you talking to, mug?” with
complete immunity from magisterial
punishment. A Sydneysider who sailed
past a police cycle in his car and flung
after them, with his dust, “Get off the
road, you mugs!” was haled before the
Beak and was acquitted, his Washup
deeming the term no insult. One of the
cops, who seems to have been nurtured in
a Band of Hope atmosphere, told the
Court he had no idea what the word
“mug” meant. Yet next time a cop looks
sideways at me I’ll probably say ‘ 1
apologise, officer. No harm done, I
hope.” If / called him a mug I guarantee
I’d be stiff enough to pick a Beak who
had other ideas and who would probably
reckon it was an insult and separate me
from a couple of “flags.”
* * * *
“Standby” sounds' a warning: —
Before becoming enthusiastic over the pro-
posed yacht race from Brisbane to Cairns
southern yachtsmen should study Queensland
coastal weather conditions. It has been sug-
gested that the race take place in the winter
—a season when sou’-east trades blow almost
unceasingly. Occasionally the wind hauls to
the south and blows hard for a day or two
before swinging back to the sou’-east. Easterlies
are infrequent and usually light. Westerlies are
* very rare and northerlies as scarce as flying
catfish. This means that a deep-keeled yacht
“Good morning!"
would have no chance of showing her merits
on the wind. The chances are about 50 to
one that, once clear of Caloundra Head, she
would be running with a free sheet all the
way—wallowing before a soldier’s wind.
For three years I carried mail and stores to
lighthouses on the Queensland coast and m
that time I realised the truth of the saying so
common in these waters: “Any old tub can
go north but you need engine power and plenty
of it to go south.” The best yachts just
wouldn’t stand a chance. Give me a shallow-
drafted scow, incapable of working a yard to
windward but able to carry a large press of
sail (spinnaker and all extras that would help
to lift her), my friend Bunny Brennan (ex-
for’ard hand of skiffs) for mate, a crew with
a taste for Cairns beer and I’ll win that race
nine years out of 10.
* * * *
“Bo”: Years of concert-going have
convinced me that there is only onfc type
of voice that will move a huge concourse
to go beyond the limits of enthusiasm
usually set by prolonged handclapping.
The coloratura soprano may evoke
hearty, though always formal, applause.
The dramatic soprano, by reason of
greater volume and emotional intensity,
gets a better response from an audience,
but rarely one approaching furore.
Thereafter, with the vocal register, a
woman singer’s popularity chart drops.
The mezzo and the contralto—even a
Clara Butt—have a limited appeal. ? A
good basso or baritone will stand em
in the aisles, and the lyric tenor has even
been known to be rewarded with some
feet-stamping. The basso-cantante rarely
clicks. That rarest of all voices the
true robust tenor is the only one capable
of moving a big audience. There is
thing about a ringing high C on full
power that grips an audience, which is
why Australian concertgoers have aban-
doned all decorum and whistled, clapped
in unison, shouted and at the close of his
recitals almost mobbed the young Irish
tenor Mick Gaffney—no, I mean the
young Hungarian tenor Miklos Gafm.
The sentimentalists might see in it no
more than an expression of sympathy for
the singer’s sufferings in a Nazi Slave-
labor camp. The fact is that this
country has heard no voice comparable
to this in 40 years, and is giving expres-
sion to the novelty.
jjc 4 s
“Second-Thirteenth”: Monty didn’t
say he asked the Ninth Division to teach
the 51st Highlanders how to fight. He
said he asked them to teach the 51st the
“art of war,” an entirely different thing.
The Scots were not too proud to learn
from a veteran division with almost a year
of successful action against an enemy
who had previously swept all before him.
I well remember the Jocks who came up
to us on Tel-el-Eisa. They had a lot to
learn about the desert, but they learnt
it well —we all know how well. That’s
what Monty meant, and he knew he was
addressing men who knew what he was
talking about.
* * * *
“Serge”: Bourgeois seems to be a
word of many meanings,* but I struck a
new one recently when “Pravda” applied
it to husbands who don’t come up to
approved Soviet standards. A Comrade,
who did not approve of his wife stopping
out until all hours at meetings of the
“Young Communist League,” became
terse to the extent of throwing crockery
at her, and the “Pravda” scribe’s ink
bubbled:
The bourgeois husband should be subject
to scrutiny and criticism. In capitalistic
States, where the wife and mother have
scarcely any rights at all, the husband is
permitted to be a despot in his own family
circle and is free to live a dissolute life.
“Pravda” obviously has not heard any of
Mo’s mother-in-law jokes'.
A stream of motorists speed-
ing along St. Kilda-road at the peak-
hour heard a big explosion and saw a
car with its owner lifted high into the
air, while the road rose up in fragments
for a distance of 60 yards. It was a ghost
from the city’s old cable-tram system, gas
accumulating in a disused tunnel used
to carry the cables having apparently
been the cause. The sensation would
have been greater if the incident had
happened a few days earlier, when
Monty, who loves Melbourne’s cable
trams so much, was passing over the
same spot during his triumphal progress.
The inference would inevitably have
been that an Australian underground was
in operation. When the Duke of Wind-
sor, then Heir Apparent, went in pro-
“ Beautiful , ain't it? I often bring the wife here for a picnic."
cession along the same route a deter-
mined-looking woman was seen to move
out of the crowd and pick up a brick.
People watched her with alarm and sus-
picion in their eyes and two policemen
edged towards! her. The tension was re-
leased when she put the brick on the
ground and stood on it.
* * * *
“Loc”: Japan is conducting a “Speak
More English” campaign. Intended, with
various prizes from civic bodies, to teach
the natives Western ideas by grasping the
language first, the scheme is producing
phrases which would be collectors items
even in Bellevue Hill. One Nipponese
shopkeeper has replaced his old sign with
the legend:
False teeth and dental plumbing inserted
by the latest methodists.
Still, they’ve a long way to go before
they equal this gem from a Siamese
, newspaper:
The news in english we tell the latest.
Writ in perfect style and most earliest.
Do a murder get commit we hear and tell
of it. Do a mighty chief die, we publish
it and in 'boarders of sombre. Staff has
each one been to college and writ like
Kipling and the Dickens.
v * * *
“Jasby”: I’ve heard of some strange
ways of saving money, but the one 1
came across last week takes the prize. A
Sydney store displayed in its window a
new line in collars, made apparently of
paper or some other material which,
like King John’s crown jewels, isn’t meant
to stand immersion in the Wash. The
price was 3£d. a collar and a large placard
invited me to “Save Laundry Bills.” In-
terested to find out just how this was to
be done, I read on. It was simple all
right. All I had to do was buy the
collars, “wear, and throw away.” 1
haven’t worked out yet just how much
I would save in a year by adopting the
advice, but if after my calculations are
complete it seems worth while, I’ll prob-
ably extend the idea to socks, underwear,
shirts and even suits. If all goes well I
may save enough to buy one of the
laundry concerns thrown on the market
by this revolutionary discovery.
* * * *
“A.D.”: One census-collector in Adel-
aide thought his big moment had come
with the casual job. He’s a free-
lance journalist, and at one house
on his round lives an editor who
has often rejected his work and
has more often used it, subbed and
hacked almost beyond recognition. He
surveyed the editor’s census paper, all
eyes for a possible error, but alas, there
was none. “I’d have given quids to be
able to shove it back for correction,” he
said, “but I couldn’t find a flaw. 1 just
had to sign it and slink away.”
* * * *
“Philp”: This isn’t an ad. for the Wes-
tralian Government Tourist Bureau ; but
yesterday I bumped into a chap with
whom I spent 12 months of the war years
at Marble Bar (W.A.). Before the war
hfc had been particularly susceptible to
common colds, averaging one every two
or three months, and had been suspected
of having antrum trouble. Since his
sojourn at the Bar, he has not had ey er *
the suspicion of a sneeze or the slightest
sinus stuffiness. He attributes the cure
to the hot, dry climate —during our tune
there the mercury passed the hundred-
mark on 100 consecutive days and once
reached 123 deg. Possibly it was the
climate, possibly it was the good, plain
service rations, or maybe the beer at the
old Ironclad Hotel had something to do
with it. Anyway, until I succumbed last
week to Sydney’s current epidemic of
coryza, I had been free from all forms
of “urti” since my year at the Bar.
* * * *
“Jonca”: Dealers at the Disposals
sale were furiously buying up all
manner of aircraft parts and spares. The
auctioneer held aloft an impressive-look-
ing gadget trailing wires and knobs.
“What am I bid for this?” he asked
hopefully. “W-what is it?”, queried a
timorous bystander. “Why—er—it’ s al *
essential part of an aeroplane, replied
the auctioneer. “Once you’ve got it you
can build your own plane around it.’
The man bought it. It was part of a
World War I bombsight.
* * * ♦
“Mark Time”: “Jobber’s” conductor
(B. 2/7/’47) is not alone in disliking half-
pennies. Customers of our shop regu-
larly refused to accept ha’pennies in
change. One old chap used to work
himself into a rage if we so much as
offered him the offending coin, declaring
that it brought him bad luck. It
suited us. Those extra halfpence were
money for nothing and not to be sneezed
at in small-shop revenue.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: To those who have
endured the offhanded treatment of
Sydney counterjumpers for the last five
or six years I recommend the method
adopted by an acidulous-looking chap
with a disdainful popsy in one of those
pie and sandwich joints during the lunch-
hour rush. The customer had been wait-
ing for about 20 minutes while the girl
served others on both sides of him and
yarned to her co-workers and acquaint-
ances across the counter. As the man s
impatience mounted the girl seemed de-
liberately to ignore him. At last he
managed to arrest her attention and have
his order taken—six pies, six pasties, a
dozen assorted sandwiches, four sponge
cakes, four cream puffs, four slices of
apple tart and four slabs of fruit cake.
When at last she placed it on the counter
and began totting up the cost the customer
snapped, “Don’t worry about the price.
I’ve waited here so damn long 1 haven’t
time to eat it now.” And leaving the
flabbergasted girl with the pile of food
on the counter, he walked out.
* * * *
“Nomit”: In depression days' I
travelled about South Australia with
Mac, a wholesale traveller, in his posh
car. Whenever we’d pass a lonely relief-
worker Mac would lean out and call
“Good-day, Bob.” It was always Bob.
Mac explained. “I tried calling ‘Good-
day, Bill,’ but it was too impersonal and
they hardly bothered to wave back. Now
I call Bob, and when I do strike a Bob
—about one in six—the astonishment
and pleasure on his face at being known
is worth the five wasted greetings.”
THE CIVIL SERVANTS PARADISE.
• "2” *“ S r o? s
increasing.”— Fadden.
An item that may well demand _
Place in those glowing pamphlets writ
To advertise this favored land
And its attractions infinite.
There’s something here, you will admi ,
To catch the eye and cut the ice,
The revelation where to fiit
The civil servants’ paradise.
Of those who hustle for a crust
They number one in every four.
So much is sure, and it is just
As sure they grow not less but more,
Which leaves, it’s obvious, Fadden sore
Perplexed why fewer can t suffice,
And inferentially to deplore
Our civil servants’ paradise.
They toil for a benignant boss,
A soul above mere sordid gain,
Who scorns to fuss about a loss
In his particular domain, .
Which makes it easier to retain
Snug billets and, to be precise, .
Goes quite a distance* to explain
The civil servants’ paradise.
Young chap, with all the world to win,
And doubting where you d best begin,
Take my unprejudiced advice
And try to park your carcass in
The civil servants’ paradise.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


mm
mmmM
mm
sssm
m
ANY COUNTRY HOME CAN
HAVE A CITY KITCHEN
ms
mmm
r.
r\
The AGA Cooker brings oil the comforts and conven-
iences of city cooking to country homes. Modern
appearance; sparkling "easy-clean" baked enamel
finish; special insulation—keeps kitchens cool—delicious
cooking by scientific stored heat in roomy ovens and
tne convenience of having the AGA operating con-
tinuously at no extra cost.
Economical, too! Country owners have proved that fuel
costs are less than cost of wood even when drawn
from their own properties. Every AGA is British made
and carries a double guarantee.
1. It is guaranteed not to burn more than an amazingly
small specified quantity of fuel per annum.
2. It is guaranteed against faulty material or workman-
ship for ten (10) years.
If unable to see the AGA in operation in our showroom
write for catalogue—showing the complete range of
models.
AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney.
432 Bourke St.. Melbourne.
Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert
Sts., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. S.
Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd., Perth.
m
I M ,
sft. long x Ift. 6ins. wide x 3ft. high.
THE PERFECT KITCHEN UNIT
The attractiveness, cleanliness and advantages of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks will be readily recognised when you in-
spect them in our Showrooms.
The all-metal, lustrous cabinet appeals too, because of its
modernity and hygienic qualities.
As rapidly as material supplies come forward, Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks, with or without cabinet, will be available.
Visit our Showrooms, or 'phone MX 2411 or write G.P.O,
Box 474, Sydney.
\r~yfunclerlicA.
Ritchen unit
SINK • DRAINER • CABINET
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, BAPTIST STREET, RfDFERN, SYDNEY. BRANCHES AT
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.; BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, LAUNCESTON,
HOBART. ’ERTH: H. L. BRISBANE & WUNDERLICH LTD.
THE SERVICE MAN
War Widows v. Deserters.
“Ek Dum”: The War Widows’ Craft
Guild, led by the widow of Major-General
George Vasey, got very cold comfort
from Repatriation Minister Barnard when
it waited on him last week. The discus-
sions were held in camera, possibly be-
cause the Government, hardened as it is
in such matters, wished to hide its blushes
from press and public.
If the information which has leaked
out is accurate Mr. Barnard seems to
have behaved like a cornered rodent.
On his own admission he told the depu-
tation that it would “get very much!
farther by seeing him rather than by
firing long-range shots which only pass
by.” In other words, Mr. Barnard
seemed to be warning the ladies not to
use their right as citizens to agitate. And
Mrs. Vasey afterwards quoted a remark
which she said the Minister made:
Many of these flappers married these men
in a hurry, and a lot of them hoped they
would never come back.
It is the kind of remark which would
wreck a Ministry in a country in which
public opinion still ruled. Mrs. Vasey
commented:
We know for certain that a great many
of these women who are childless
lost their babies because the news of
their husbands’ deaths came just at the
"I want my baggage stowed away from the boilers, please .”
wrong time Some of these girls who
have lost both their children and their
husbands are just breaking their hearts. In
nine cases out of ten they are in extremely
bad health because of their double losses.
Mr. Barnard indicated that he felt that
‘ the existing allowance, raised from
£2 10s. a week to £2 15s. on July 1, was
enough to keep a war widow —this
when his Administration feels that it is
right to pay a hale and hearty wharfie
12s. for turning up at a picking-up centre
and going away again—or not turning
up if he hears over the radio that his
services will not be required. But Mr.
Barnard is prepared to add something for
children up to 12 years of age.
The attitude of the Government to-
wards the widows and children of the
honored dbad only appears in its full
significance when it is considered in con-
trast to its attitude to Army deserters,
some of them wasters who in any Army
outside the British Dominions would
have been shot. These, unlike the dead,
have votes and there have been so many
of them that their votes and those of their
dependants are valuable.
Under the present Government the
very word deserter was banned —these
fellows are merely “a.w.ls.”
Mr. Chambers, the Army Minister,
chose the period when Field-Marshal
Montgomery was in Australia to an-
nounce that no further attempt would be
made to arrest any of thesfe unspeakable
renegades, no matter what the circum-
stances of their desertion. They are, in-
deed, to be officially invited to’ report at
the Army Finance H.Q. to collect
their deferred pay, which in many cases
must amount to a substantial sum.
They are publicly assured by the
Minister that the only punishment they
are likely to suffer is that their certifi-
cates will bear the endorsement “Dis-
charged in absentia for misconduct be-
cause of illegal absence.”
All this is supposedly intended to
“eliminate the effort involved in tracing,
apprehending and bringing” deserters “to
trial, and would reduce considerably the
expense and administration involved in
Army detention camps”; a principle
which, if it were extended to civil crime,
would lead to the almost immediate
breakdown of all law and order.
What Mr. Chambers has done has been
to spread it abroad that in his Army
loyalty, faithfulness and good behavior
do not pay. He has issued an incitement
to indiscipline and to desertion in the
future, and he has established also a dis-
crimination between the man who was
caught or gave himself up and took his
medicine like a man and the cunning
ruffian who has never been caught. What
is worse, these men, some of whom were
a thorn in the flesh in good camps for
years, with deferred pay piling up, and
thfcn made off the moment their skins
seemed likely to be in danger, are being
better treated, along with their kin, in
respect of demobilisation pay than those
who rushed to enlist in the beginning and
were killed when they had accumulated
little deferred pay.
The suggestion that all deferred pay
owing to deserters should be confiscated
and handed to war widows has something
to recommend it.
Under the present policy of the Gov-
ernment, the widows of heroes are told to
starve on a weekly amount which will
scarcely pay the rent in cities where single
rooms cost two guineas to three guineas
a week. They are not even vouchsafed
the bread to keep them alive.
The shirker who abandoned his mates
is offered —as Major-General Bather put
it—a “helping of plum cake.”
Greece and Invasion.
“Ek Dum”: At the beginning of the
week it looked as if Greece, most un-
fortunate of countries, was about to face
a major war against invaders from
Communist countries round the northern
fringe.
There had been talk for some time of'
the training of international brigades in
Yugoslavia and adjacent countries for
purposes unspecified. And the forces
which began to descend out of Albania
and Yugoslavia, towards Janina, the
north-western Greek military head-
quarters, and Fiorina, approaching the
frontal areas occupied by the Australian
Sixth Divisional vanguard in 1941, cer-
tainly had the look of a Red international
brigade, well armed and as determined
as it is possible for Red international
brigades to be. It was not without sig-
nificance that “General” Hodja, the
Albanian “Prime Minister,” arrived in
Moscow the day the attacks began, armed
with the “news” of the discovery of a
“plot” by Britain and the U.S. to start
a revolution in Albania. He was met
ceremoniously by Molotov at the railway
station whence Stalin once boisterously
farewelled Matsuoka, who shared with
Hitler and Ribbentrop the Boss’s devo-
tion at that period.
On July 15 Moscow and Berlin radios
reported that the invaders, who were
styled “Greek guerrilla patriots,” had
captured Konitza, and the Greek Govern-
ment admitted stiff fighting in the Kalpaki
district, only 13 miles from Janina. The
situation seemed more dangerous since
the Greek Government is anything but
popular in the United States, from which
the Greeks could best expect help, and
because the tone of Russian delegates
to the Security Council made it quite
clear that the U.S.S.R. was behind the
movement. Gromyko, with his Polish
and Yugoslav instruments, opposed an
emergency session of the Security Council
to discuss the matter.
A subtle change in the situation de-
veloped late in the week. On July 15
Major-General William H. Arnold,
Deputy Director of Plans and Operations
in the U.S. War Department, made it
clear that the United .States had no


RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
*
*
*
A L BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL Nf •
A
I£ you’re beset with money worries, faced with
unexpected bills, the Rural Bank may be able
to tide you over with a personal loan. Come
in and talk it over. Repayments spread over a
period of years.
RURAL BANK
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
maximum FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST
\
*>L BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL N
*
RURAL BANK LENDS MONEY FOR PERSONAL NEEDS
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere bring*
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 23V) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
BRANDAEJER’A
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
m-
-
WHAT DOES THIS
SIGN MEAN?
IT MEANS 8.0.A.C.
IT MEANS 8.0.A.C. AIR ROUTES -over 72,000
miles of routes, linking 5 continents across the world.
IT MEANS 8.0.A.C. PLANES over two
hundred aircraft operated by 8.0.A.C.
Above all, it means an ideal —the determination
to place 8.0.A.C. ahead of the world’s air lines
and to keep it there by unceasing improvement.
Australasian Representative:
Shell House, Carrington Street, Sydney.
General Agents: QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin,
Pt. Moresby, Lae, Rabaul. Booking agents in all cities.
Speed bird Roufes across fhe World
Q.E.A. operate the Flying-boat service between Australia and
Singapore and the Lancastrian Service between Australia and
Karachi. T.E.A. operate the service from Australia to New
Zealand.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS
EMPIRE AIRWAYS, SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Unking AU ST RALIA with;
BRITAIN • NEW ZEALAND
FAR EAST • INDIA • MIDDLE
EAST • SOUTH, EAST & WEST
AFRICA • CANADA . U.S.A.
61/AU
intention of intervening militarily if the
Greek Government troops collapsed and
added: “From the military standpoint
we are only sending the Greek Govern-
ment what we can make available and
what it can use.” This seemed a de-
liberate rebuff to the Greek (jovern-
ment request for additional help to in-
crease army strength to 150,000 to allow
of a general mopping-up and defence
campaign.
On July 17, when the matter was before
the Security Council, with a proposal
from the United States for a U.N.O. com-
mission to patrol the Balkan borders for
two years, the Russian, Yugoslav and
Polish delegates opposed the move and
plainly suggested that the charges of in-
vasion were not made in good faith.
Then quite suddenly, as if to prove
their contention, the strong tide of the
invasion ceased to flow. As the U.N.O.
Balkans commission which has been in-
vestigating the Greek border incidents
arrived at Janina, many of the invaders
seem to have left hurriedly for the hills,
harassed by Greek Spitfires, while the
drive on Janina itself ended with the
main column of the guerrillas from
Albania —the Greeks say 2000 —allegedly
cut off, about 300 being taken prisoner.
The sudden retreat may have come
from causes other than Greek Army
strength and U.N.O. proceedings. A
Congressional sub-committee on military
expenditure meeting in Washington saw
Mr. Lovett, an official of the State Depart-
ment, in private session late in the week,
and American radio commentators on
Friday were , making much of the fact
that whatever the committee was told it
reversed some previous decisions and de-
cided to support full aid for Greece
within the scope of United States legis-
lation. It also withdrew its opposition
to various military increases connected
with the general defence programme.
Some critics remark that this may be
exactly what Russia is aiming for. They
deduce that the whole border business
has been engineered by Moscow as a
trap to induce the United States to in-
volve itself as the protector of a Greek
Government which is not popular, and
which Moscow and its satellites are doing
their best to prove to be a totalitarian
Government.
Uncle Sam is unlikely to fall into the
trap, regardless of committee findings,
more especially in view of the Asian
situation. General Wedemeyer has been
sent to China from Washington on a
mission of inquiry connected with the
Communist invasion but particularly, it
would seem, with the position in Korea.
There it is impossible to establish a united
Government or economy without joining
the resources of the North and the
South ; and this is impossible because the
Russians are busily turning the northern
half into an Asiatic Yugoslavia, while
refusing to deal with any party in the
American zone for a joint settlement,
except the Communist party.
Australia Prepares.
It is evident from the statement issued
during the week by the Chief of the
General Staff that the “Five Year Plan of
Defence” with which the country is being
bluffed is not to begin till July next year.
Lieutenant-General Sturdee, C.G.S.,
declared that “complete organisation”
would be “finalised to start by that time”
and would produce an “efficient stream-
lined model” of the pre-war militia.
How it is possible to produce efficient
divisions in 26 to 38 days’ training in
the year (half of it piecemeal), modern
weapons and techniques being what
they are, the C.G.S. does not attempt
to explain, which is probably just as
well, since his views no doubt, if fully
expressed, would raise a blue and sul-
phurous haze over Canberra.
Pending the enlistment of the new
citizen “Army,” interim forces will con-
tinue to exist and the enlistment of the
regular “Army”—one field brigade and
ancillaries —is to begin forthwith.
First enlistments will be for six years
and it is hoped that 8.C.0.F. men of the
force in Japan will agree to a transfer.
At the present rate of enlistment in
most States it will take about four years
to collect the P.M.F. brigade, but perhaps
changes in economic conditions will help.
As General Sturdee says, “Australia
can take no risks If there is ever war
again we cannot expect the breathing
space we had last time. We must be
prepared.”
The enlistment of one brigade is
scarcely preparation. In the event of
sudden invasion by any modernly-
equipped country all that the “Govern-
ment” could do would be to hand the
five (5) Defence Ministers over to the
enemy with halters round their necks like
the citizens of Calais and hope for the best.
Are Navies Finished?
“Ek Dum”: The visit of Rear-Admiral
Creasy’s Royal Naval Squadron will no
doubt revive the argument as to whether
the day of navies is over.
Over it is not. The idea that when the
next war begins somebody will press a
button and blow the enemy to blithering
blazes with a shower of atomic rockets
is in the fairy-tale class.
For one thing, despite the distances
that rockets can be fired, they are not
yet an accurate weapon. They are, in-
deed, and are likely to continue, a very
inaccurate weapon except at very short
range and at sitting targets. They are,
moreover, a very expensive weapon when
they come into the atomic field. And
they are a very vulnerable weapon in that
their firing grounds must remain acces-
sible to attack. The Germans learnt this
in France.
Radio-controlled pilotless aircraft are
more dangerously accurate. But there is
a limit to the distance over which such
weapons can be controlled. And other
limits have to be considered in rela-
tion to such matters.
The average man’s conception of an
atomic bomb appears to be of something
which can be packed into a suitcase and
left behind in a city to blow it up. The
fact of the matter is that an atomic bomb
is an enormous projectile, and there are
few types of aircraft big enough to carry
one. Machines carrying such weapons
need tremendous runways.
The objective of any country which
intends to attack another country will be
to obtain bases as close to its foe as
possible. These can be obtained, de-
fended and stocked only with the aid of
ships and of a Navy. Moreover the safest
fort is a mobile one in the new era, and
with greater ranges naval ships become
ever more mobile.
The importance of naval forces, too,
has greatly increased with the advances
in defensive equipment on hfcavy naval
ships. A battleship can now look after
herself very effectively against almost
any attack which can be contem-
plated in reason, and there is no cause
why the story of last war should not be
repeated in the next one in respect of
big-ship defence.
The Japanese Navy and its fate provide
a proper criterion. The Japs were for
the greater period of the war faced with an
overwhelming and growing air superiority
on the part of their foes. At the end
U.S. control of the air in the Pacific was
absolute, though mainly by virtue of
naval power.
The history of the destruction of the
Japanese Navy was roughly as follows:
Jap Vessels Above Destroyer Class.
Lost to carrier aircraft 48 per cent.
To naval gunfire and torpedoes 11 per cent.
To submarines 36 per cent.
Total 95 per cent.
Few enemy ships were destroyed without
naval operations.
According to figures recently issued by
the United States Navy Department,
Japan lost 10 battleships. Four of these
were destroyed by Allied fleet units, four
by aircraft-carrier units and one by sub-
marine, and one by ship action plus
carrier aircraft. Two others survived —
Nagato, which was found in Tokyo Bay
after the armistice, battered to pieces by
carrier aircraft but still afloat; the other,
Mutsu, went up in an explosion.
Eleven Jap carriers were sunk by carrier
aircraft, four by submarines and one by
fleet units; a submarine and carrier air-
craft shared another kill between them.
Four of five enemy escort carriers were
accounted for by submarines and the
fifth by carrier aircraft.
Eight Jap heavy cruisers were victims
of carrier aircraft, two of carrier aircraft
and fleet ships in conjunction. Sub-
marines accounted for two and ships for
one.
And out of 20 enemy light cruisers
which went down only one, the
Abukuma, could blame a land-based air-
craft with its destruction. It fell to a B24
off the Philippines.
Figures for U-boat sinkings, issued by
the British Admiralty in March, 1946,
are equally interesting, especially since
most of the kills took place mainly in
confined waters accessible to land-based
aircraft: —
Sunk by British. U.S. Total.
Ships 2084 384 247
Shore-based aircraft .. .. 197 48| 2454
Ship-borne aftcraft .... 15 29 44
Ship and shore-based aircraft 24 8 32
Ship and ship-borne aircraft 7 6 13
Submarines 19 2 21
Bombing raids .. .. ..21 42 63
Naval mines, shore-laid .. 16 — 16
Naval mines, ship-laid .. 164 — 164
Thus out of 698 U-boats sunk by direct
action only 261 were destroyed by land-
based forces, and sea-forces were wholly
or partly accountable for the rest.
Ships certainly will change in size,
armament, protection and purpose; but
they will continue to be fighting ships.
The Navy is far from being done as a
useful force. In fact it is conceivable
that, with increased sea speeds and addi-
tional protection and range, it might be-
come even more important than at
present in wars of world scale, and be
entering upon a new era of prestige.


-mmmm
' '
’
FOR
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australian sympathy in full measure
goes out to the relations and messmates
of the six men from the carriers Theseus
and Glory who lost their lives in tragic
accidents at the week-end. Four were
killed when two Firefly aircraft collided
in mid-air during manoeuvres over Port
Phillip Bay and landing accidents on the
flight decks of the two carriers caused
the death of a seaman on each ship. The
mishaps marred what has so far been a
very pleasant visit of the R.N. Force to
Australian waters ; they should be taken
as a reminder that for men of the Navy
risks continue on in peace as in war.
The six men died in their country’s ser-
vice as certainly as their countless col-
leagues who perished in battle.
Monty is' spending, with his old friend
Frey berg such leisure as he means to
allow himself on his Australasian visit.
He has 16 days in New Zealand,
and his host at Government House in
Wellington is the commander of the
First New Zealand Division of the
Eighth Army; the force that Monty
used, for preference, for those left
punches which more than once unhinged
Rommel’s army from a strong defence
position in the chase along the north
coast of Africa. The two Bernards, now
respectively C.I.G.S. and G.-G. of New
Zealand, have come a long and brilliant
way since Monty went to the Eighth
Army fiye years ago and set about the
problem of destroying Rommel. In that
business General Freyberg became one
of his most intimate consultants.
R. O. Blackman—“Mid-Channel” of
many Bulletin pars—is to have a play
of his, “Mrs. Grundy’s Advice,” put on
by the Australian Theatre Movement in
Melbourne. He has been the author of a
number of bright comedies, some of
which had professional production; the
Taits and Morosco, of New York, have
put the hallmark on his work. Before
allowing his latest play to be produced
Blackman got a judgment in its favor
from a Justice of the High Court, a
Justice of the Victorian Supreme Court
and a Judge of the County Court; and he
carried on an unbroken correspondence
with Arthur Pinero for 22 years.
Angus and Robertson published a work
of his called Enchanted Moments con-
sisting of a series of extracts designed
for reading taken from 29 of the English
author’s plays. Blackman was for
30 years an officer of the N.S.W. Supreme
Court and for eight years of the High
Court in Melbourne,
Among the odd tangle of small streets
where the trams whoop down to Circular
Quay are numbers of solid stone build-
ings, old and dignified, and a bit for-
bidding. Such a one is the N.S.W. Lands
Department building which has the addi-
tional advantage of being easily found,
being just up the back from The Bulle-
tin offices, with a doorway in Bridge-
street and another frowning across at
Aaron’s Hotel. Within are vast lifts,
LANDS.
land maps, a notice “Prickly Pear and
Salaries” and echoing corridors ; one of
which—lined with the beards and side-
whiskers of departed Ministers—leads to
a large office. There a raiding party led
by Heth discovered the recently-
appointed Minister for Lands, W. F.
Sheahan, and a famous clock. The clock
came from Germany and was bought
by Henry Parkes for £7O, its purchase
causing a considerable stir. It is now
worth thousands and is cherished by the
Lands Department, although nobody
seems to know how it got there. W. F.
Sheahan, M.L.A. for Yass, comes from
Jugiong, in the Gundagai district, is a
Digger of 1914-18 and until he gave up
the law for Land Department affairs
combined an excellent practice y/ith
politics. In the McKell time he caused
some stir by criticising the funeral-march
progress of soldier-settlement; more stir,
perhaps, in a political way, by his criti-
cism of the McKell appointment; and
on current form seems likely to produce
a most salutary commotion in soldier-
settlement generally. Heth didn’t have
time to do the clock (which is large and
brown and handsome, with wooden
nymphs, and keeps good time), but his
sketch of the Minister catches in the
faintly hobgoblinish smile a good deal
of Sheahan’s energetic personality.
As President of the Royal Agricul-
tural Society and of the Chamber of
Manufactures, Cecil Newton McKay,
the subject of Tram’s sketch, is head
of both primary and secondary indus-
tries in Victoria. As managing director
of H. V. McKay-Massey Harris, he is
HARVESTERS.
head of a manufacturing organisation
with world-wide connections —his father,
the late Hugh Victor, supplied Czarist
Russia with ploughs and harvesters' to
harness the soil of Siberia, and worked
up a trade in South America, The old
shed in which the founder of the firm
made his first farming equipment still
occupies a nook in the vast works at Sun-
shine, looking like an antique in a
modem parlor. C. N. McKay was born
in 1899 at Ballarat and educated at
Scotch College, Melbourne. He joined
the Australian Flying Corps while still
at school, trained for six months at Point
Cook and returned to college when World
War I ended. His hobby is still flying
—it used to be rowing ;he rowed in win-
ning crews in the King’s Cup, Grand
Challenge, Champion Eights and Fours.
Besides his responsibilities at Sunshine he
is chairman of the Bankers and Traders’
Insurance Co. and vice-president of the
Australian Metal Industries Association.
The Sydney Hibernian who claimed
that Mick Gaffney was the best Irish
singer since John McCormack was
probably first cousin to the one who
became enthusiastic over the great Irish
general Tim O’Shenko, though possibly
a genealogist from County Cork might be
able to make out a strong case for the
descent of Hungarian tenor Miklos
Gafni from a 17th-century Irish soldier
of fortune. Gafni’s rise to world class as
a singer is without parallel. Not much
more than two years ago he came out-
of a Nazi labor camp, his only musical
equipment a voice he had discovered in
the camp, his only lessons a few given
him by a fellow-prisoner. Five weeks
later he was singing the leading tenor
role in “La Traviata” at Budapest Opera
HIGH C'S.
House. Study in Italy followed and then
an enterprising American heard him and
whisked him off to the U.S.A. At every
appearance on his Australian tour Gafni,
depicted here in full cry by Prior, has
repeated the success he met wherever he
sang in America, and at 24 is spoken
of as the successor of Caruso.
As a middy in the Kaiser’s war Robert
Kirk Dickson, now in command of air-
craft-carrier Theseus, took part in the
battles of the Falkland Islands and Jut-
land ; in between those historic fights
he commanded landing-boats at Anzac.
Between the wars he served in Warspite
and Ramillies, and was commander of
Greenwich College, with a spot of work
in the Plans Division of Naval Staff. In
October, 1940, he was given command of
the Navy’s fastest ship, minelayer Manx-
man, who laid her eggs along enemy-
occupied coasts on the North Sea and in
the Mediterranean before she transferred
to the Eastern Fleet and took part in the
operations against Madagascar. In that
little sideshow Dickson commanded a
mixed force of sailors, marines and South
African infantry on shore. Back in the
Med. again, Manxman ran the last load
of food to beleaguered Malta, and was
first ship in after the siege was raised.
During the landing operations in North
Africa she copped a torpedo and,
badly crippled, was towed into Oran ;
Captain Dickson received a D.S.O. for
his services in the speedy maid-of-all-
work and was three times mentioned in
dispatches. He went back to the
Admiralty as Deputy-Director of Plans,
and acted for a while as Chief of Naval
Information. Appointment to Theseus
came last January.
Dead in Rockhampton (Q.), at 77, ex-
Senior Sergeant W. I. Loney. Born at
Ipswich (Q.), he joined the mounted
police in 1889, and for more than 15 years
served in the Gulf country and the
northern goldfields in their most colorful
days. His recollections of long chases
after horse-thieves and cattle-duffers,
quellings of goldfield riots, arrests of
would-be “bad men,” and outwitting
smugglers of illegal Chinese labor would
have made a first-rate adventure novel.
Loney was sergeant at Clermont when the
cloudburst of December 31, 1916, deluged
the district with 24 inches of rain and
caused tragic loss of life.
On July 9 T, C. Beirne took one of his
rare days off to celebrate his 87th birth-
day. Five daughters, 22 grandchildren,
10 great - grandchildren and a large
gathering of relatives and old friends
shared in the festivity. Sheaves of con-
gratulatory telegrams came from all parts
of Australia. Born at Ballamacurly,
County Roscommon, Ireland, Beirne
passed the entrance examination for H.M.
Customs at 14. While awaiting the entry
age of 18 he got himself apprenticed to
the drapery business and afterwards emi-
grated to Melbourne in the early 1880’s,
Going to Brisbane in 1891 he opened
his present business in an abandoned
grocery store. The original 40ft. by 26ft.
shop has now become one of the largest
department stores in Australia and the
staff numbers around 1000. T.C.B. con-
tinues in complete and active charge.
Dr. Frank Tate, a Melbourne
medico, with a friend, Thorold W.
Gunnersen, is responsible for one
of the most remarkable films ever
produced in Australia. For the
past five years he has taken his
vacations on the Great Barrier
Reef, and one of the results is a
documentary in color which has
thrilled everyone who has seen it.
A copy has been taken to U.S.,
where the 20th Century Fox people
jumped at it and offered to trans-
. fer it to 35mm. film for world presenta-
tion. It gives- the amazing beauty, variety
and wonder of Australia’s least-known
and greatest tourist asset with a vividness
that no film, home or imported, has ever
equalled,
Maorilander Archie Mclndoe, plastic
surgeon, a native of Dunedin, who re-
cently collected a knighthood, is a cousin
of Harold Gillies, who established a
reputation in the same line ot surgery
during First World War, and also gained
a knighthood. Mclndoe is a son of
Mrs. J. Mclndoe, whose maiden name,
Mabel Hill, attached to landscape paint-
ings places them in the first rank of M.L.
artists’ work. He was the first New
Zealander granted a fellowship of Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, U.S.A. At Queen
Victoria Hospital, East Grinstead, which
he controlled during the war, thousands
of disfigured airmen had facial restora-
tions performed.
Dead in his prime—only 54—W. A.
Bartlett, the unassuming Sussex man who
was g.m. of Dunlop Perdriau. In his first
40 years he became an engineer,
Canadian trained, served 1914-18 as
a captain with the 15th Canadians
and as a captain in the R.F.C.,
spent a period with Westinghouse at the
Hell Gate Power Station and was 10 years
with Braudes, the English radio firm for
whom, at 28, he built up a subsidiary
company which employed 2000 hands in
a four-acre factory. At 41, Dunlops
snapped him up for a big job in Europe
and then sent him to Australia. He was
a man of remarkably few words, usually
the most silent and unassuming in any
company larger than two; but his
thoughts and conclusions were always
well ahead of most other people’s. Dur-
ing World War II the Commonwealth
Government made good use of his brains.
Into the silence:
In England, Captain W. H. Hartman, who
commanded many Shaw Savill liners. First
sailed in windjammer Annesley in 1901, mak-
ing many voyages in her to Australia and
Maoriland. During first World War he was
navigator of Whitby Abbey and Cantania;
in the second he won an 0.8. E. for service
with the mercantile marine. He became marine
superintendent for his firm in Wellington in
1933, but went back to sea in 1937.
In Sydney, at 74, Dugald Graeme Mac-
dougall, organising secretary of the Citizens
of Sydney Organising Committee. A news-
paperman with considerable experience in
Queensland and Victoria, he began to con-
centrate on publicity work 30 years ago.
Moving to Sydney in 1927, he directed publicity
for the Harbor Bridge celebrations and almost
every occasion for public rejoicing from that
time on.
In Gladstone (Q.), at 79, Joseph John Ben-
stead, whose genial personality will be re-
membered by pre-war visitors to Heron, Mast-
head and Nor’-west Islands in southern Barrier
Reef waters. Skipper of the launches Areca
and Grimsby, he organised the first reef-island
tours from Gladstone, and provided thousands
of visitors from other States and overseas with
their first view of living coral gardens.
In Adelaide, at 81, C. E. Goldsmith, who gave
all his working life to the Savings Bank of S.A.,
represented it at a London meeting, and had
10 years as manager before retirement. In
private life a tennis and bowls, enthusiast.
In Perth, at 72, Hubert Evans, senior partner
of a firm controlling a batch of pastoral
properties in the nor’-west of his State. Born
near Wangaratta in Victoria of a pastoral
family, he was in his younger days a prominent
amateur rider.
At Southport (Q.), at 94, Mrs. Katherine
Maude Milman, a daughter of John Jardine,
who in 1863 established the Government
station at Somerset, near Cape York, and sister
of Frank and Alec, who took the first mob
of cattle from Brisbane to the then unexplored
Cape York Peninsula. In the 1880 s her hus-
band was Government Resident at Thursday
Island.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne was shocked at the news
of the tragedies in which four air-
crew from H.M.S. Theseus were killed in
a collision and two of the crew of
H.M.S. Glory lost their lives in
plane-landing accidents while the visiting
R.N. Squadron was exercising in Port
Phillip Bay on Sunday. The Squadron
had barely finished enjoying the hos-
pitality that the city had showered on
them, and the fine bearing in Thursday’s
inarch of these young English lads was
still being spoken of admiringly.
The late-afternoon party at G.H.,
given by their Excellencies Sir Winston
and Lady Dugan, provided junior officers
of the Royal Navy Squadron with an
opportunity of meeting some of this city’s
younger set. The Governor and his lady
were assisted in their reception of the
guests by Rear-Admiral G. E. Creasy
and Mrs. Creasy, who have been staying
at Government House. Lady Dugan
chose a tailored frock of black crepe
featuring a draped skirt. A peplum out-
lined the waist of the black frock worn
by Mrs. Creasy, a triple string of pearls
comprising an effective ornament.
In the official party were the Viscount
and Viscountess Dunwich and their
daughters the Hon. Penelope and the
Hon. Mary Rous, Penelope Nettlefold
and Captain John Blood. Many pretty
hats of the floral-cocktail type were
seen, and many of the young girls
banded their hair in ribbon. Admiral
Sir Louis Hamilton was there with
his two sisters, the Hon. Mrs. Ronald
Douglas and Miss Jean Hamilton,
With Commander Neil McKinnon
was his wife, whose short white
lamb coat was worn with a black frock
and black velvet hat. Moira Shelton's
modified black topper was embroidered
in gold, red and green and was worn with
a black frock, the black velvet neckband
highlighted with an orchid. Other young
guests included Margaret Lawrence, Joan
Cain, daughter of the Premier, Elinor
Wilbur Ham and Jennifer Chirnside.
The first marriage on board H.M.S.
Glory was celebrated when Padre Birch
gave his blessing to the vows exchanged
by Helen Houston, widow of Flying-
Officer J. W. R. Houston (she is the eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. G. I. Barker,
of Mulgrave), and Lieut. lan Clark
Dalziell, R.N., eldest son of Mrs. A. C.
Mills, of Salisbury, England. The bride,
who was formerly a sergeant in the
A.W.A.S., wore a smart beige frock which
had a crossover bodice and a tunic skirt
inlet with lace. Her hat and accessories
were of nigger-brown, and she carried
a small posy of tiny pink roses. She was
unattended ; the bridegroom had Lieut.
Eric Allen, R.N., as bestman. A small
cocktail party was later held at Menzies,
at which only immediate relatives and
a few close naval friends of the ’groom
were present.
Yarrien, the Toorak home of Mrs
H. F. Creswick, was a mass of glorious
flowers which had been tastefully
arranged by Mrs. Creswick’s daughters,
Mesdames Stephen and Roger Kimpton,
for the dance arranged by the committee
of the Lady Northcote Free Kinder-
garten to aid the candidature of Beverley
Duckett for the “Miss Australia” Quest.
Mrs. A. \V. Coles, who is president of the
committee, wore a black velvet gown
with a white lace bertha collar, and over
it a short tailored jacket of white-corded
velvet. She welcomed the guest-of-honor
and the 150 guests. Beverley Duckett,
who chose a rose-pink taffeta crinoline
gown, was presented with a spray of
daphne by the committee.
Mrs. Creswick’s gown was of vieux-
rose silk lace, and over it she wore a
short jacket of matching crepe. Petite
Angela Fink wore a gown of slipper
satin which had colorful flowers on a
white background. Elizabeth Turnbull
Wore a gown of apple-green moire with
a high waistband and short puffed sleeves.
Mrs. Edmund Alcock’s filmy white chiffon
featured a tiered skirt banded in black
and silver sequins. Verity Alley chose
lime-green chiffon, Veronica Linehan an
off-the-shoulder white lace frock. Tom
Kirkpatrick took the eye in a rainbow-
striped silk jersey frock, and Mrs. W-
Irvine’s egg-shell blue slipper satin frock
Was worn with a fishtail mauve velvet
jacket.
St. Kilda Town Hall was the setting
for the eleventh ball to be held by the
Gloucester Auxiliary of Prince Henry
Hospital. Eighteen debutantes, their
bouquets tied with the Gloucester colors
of royal blue and red, were presented to
Lady Dugan, who wore a silver-encrusted
aqua-green gown fashioned with a loose
panel at the back falling from a wide,
soft bow. Penelope Nettlefold’s gown
of black taffeta was appliqued with
powder-blue motifs.
The official party was welcomed by
Kathleen Lascelles, founder and president
of the auxiliary, whose gown was of
blonde lace with apple-green and pink
beading on the shoulders and one side
of the skirt. In the official party were
Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside, who repre-
sented the hospital. Mrs. Burnside’s
gown was of tomato-red romaine with a
heavily gold-sequined bodice and draped
skirt. Cherry Kaye wore a strapless pink
slipper-satin gown ; Pamela Henderson’s
off-the-shoulder gown was of sky-blue
georgette ; Robin Hill’s white lace skirt
was allied to an off-the-shoulder lime-
green bodice ; Clarissa Starey’s red taf-
fettas emphasised the full swinging skirt
and a bodice cut to the waist at the
back. Eleven hundred dancers, among
whom were many officers from the R.N.
squadron, bore witness to the excellence
of the committee’s arrangements.
This Cedric Ross photograph is of
Elizabeth Saker, who has just been ap-
pointed country organiser of the “Miss
Australia” Quest. Her job will be
to inform committees in country districts
of Victoria of the conditions under which
a candidate for the Quest must enter.
Elizabeth, who is an accomplished
swimmer and diver, is a beauty culturist
and hopes to go abroad to study cos-
metics.
“Annie, Get Your Gun,” the new
musical comedy, had a triumphant open-
ing night. There were more dinner-
jackets and “tails” to the square yard at
His Majesty’s than have been seen since
pre-war days. As to feminine fripperies,
French crepes and satins vied with filmy
chiffons for popularity. Robin Mackay
wore a Norman Hartnell creation —a
turquoise wool crepe evening coat, which
had the new long cape sleeves. It was
caught into the waist with a wide band
of matching sequins. Mrs. Frank Tail’s
long black velvet skirt was worn with a
white satin blouse embroidered in black
sequin coin spots; a white fox fur com-
pleted the ensemble. Mrs. Bill Gahan
chose a soft hyacinth-blue crepe gown,
the skirt fully pleated and the bodice
yoked in fine net and scintillating with
sequins, which outlined the blue leaves!
appliqued on the yoke. Mrs. W. Graves
wore a black velvet gown ; a deep white
Irish crochet lace collar banding the
neckline. The sleeves of Alice Wyatt’s
white evening coat were trimmed with
white ermine tails. Gloria Ladd’s black
taffetta ballerina frock was worn with a
wreath of black osprey feathers. Mrs.
Ronnie Nott’s turquoise wool-tailored
coat was plentifully sprinkled with
matching sequins. Mrs. Garnet Carroll
wore a dinner suit of powder-blue crepe.
Mrs. Fred Irvine chose a sleek dinner
gown of black crepe and covered it with
a three-quarter length brown ermine
coat.
From Singapore comes news of the
engagement of lan Baillieu, son of Mi
and Mrs. Robert Ramsay, of Toorak,
to Jean Lavinia Grice, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Renton, of Singapore.
Jean was educated in Victoria and the
Renton family spent the war years in
Australia. They returned to Singapore
six months ago. Jean is a granddaughter
of the late J. A. Levy, former chairman
of the Felton Bequest trustees. lan served
with the A.I.F. and was a p.-0.-w. in
Germany for four years.
From Sydney
A fashionably befurred audience in the
Town Hall last Thursday night listened
to the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
directed by its new master Eugene Goos-
sens. This was the orchestra’s welcome
to the new conductor, and he was well
on deck to direct it. Mrs. Goossens in
her already-famed mink cape was in the
large official party. This was welcomed
by "Lord Mayor Bartley and Mrs. Bart-
ley and members of the Women s Com-
mittee, among them the Jordan lady,
whose frock gleamed sapphire under a
black Persian-lamb coat, and Mrs, Hope
Gibson, whose black velvet dinner frock
wore its sleeves long and fitting. The
new director and his forces! received a
thunderous ovation. All Sydney’s musi-
cal world was present, the first per-
formances of Ravel’s “Daphnis and
Chloe, Suite 1,” and of Delius’s “Dance
Rhapsody, No. 1,” proving irresistible
bait.
There was plenty of wedding cake to
go round the 300 guests at the wedding of
Shirley Louise Riedel and Robert Butler,
only son of America’s Ambassador. The
big glittering bridal cake had four sisters
equally rich surrounding her. The guests
are still talking about the beautiful wed-
ding frock cut on medieval lines with its
long bodice and long slimly-fitting sleeves.
In the soft candle-lit glow of St.
Christopher’s Church the magnolia-
shaded satin frock and the long tulle
veil made a picture to be remembered.
Bride’s sister Dorothy, who was maid
of honor, wore white tulle very bouf-
fant ; the other ’maids wore pink tulle
equally bouffant. A special word goes
to Mei-Ping, the small four-year-old
daughter of Dr. Cheng, the Charge
d’Affaires for China, who was flower-girl.
The reception that followed at the Em-
bassy was a very super affair. Mrs.
Butler’s primrose ensemble and small
green tulle hat were greatly admired.
Probably there has never been a more-
photographed wedding than this one and
probably never one with fewer speeches.
The most colorful invitation last week
came from the wife of Norway’s Minister
to Australia, Mrs.* Lars Jorstad, and
the party, which was held yesterday at her
home, Madeay Regis, Potts Point, lived
up to the amusing invitation card. On
the cover was a spouting whale proudly
carrying Norway’s flag; on the inside a
bird in a cage shouting angrily “It’s a
Hens’ Party!”; on the opposite page a
clock giving the hour 5.30 and small
figures gaily ski-ing. The party was in
fulfilment of a promise Mrs. Jorstad had
made to Sydney presswomen to serve
them Norwegian dishes, and to give
to each guest the recipes.
Sydney lovers of music and the
drama are greatly interested over Caspar
Middleton’s production of John Gay’s
“Beggar’s Opera” which is due to open
on July 31 at the Independent Theatre.
Peggy Ford-Carrington will be the Polly
Peachum, a part she has played in the
principal cities of Great Britain and,
during the war years, throughout the
Middle East. Peggy gave over three years
singing to the troops, and after her re-
cent arrival in Australia resumed the
good work by entertaining patients at
the Repat. General Hospital. Caspar says
he will be incorporating two features sug-
gested to him by the late James Agate
after he (Agate) nad heard Peggy at the
Leamington Festival. Middleton, like so
many English producers, had a great
esteem for Jimmy’s.opinions. Pictured
here is Peggy Ford-Carrington.
Eugene Goossens, the new Director
of the Sydney Conservatorium, paid
a pretty compliment to Rosina Raisbeck
and Raymond Nilsson by attending their
farewell performance in Sydney Town
Hall last week. Both Rosina and Ray-
mond are going overseas to seek fame
and fortune and for further study
abroad. Rosina, who studied at Sydney
Con. with Nevill-Smith, and Raymond
have both been heard in many Con.
operas. They will take with them letters of
introduction from Mr. Goossens to the
managers of Covent Garden. Tenor
Miklos Gafni was also at the concert,
and he and Mr. Goossens went backstage
to compliment the singers at the end of
the performance. Bowls of white lilies
decked the stage. Rosina wore a trail-
ing frock of Parma-violet velvet. The
audience was large and enthusiastic, and
both singers were at their top form, their
operatic arias being particularly stirring.
The two were respectively winner and
runner-up in the 1946 Sydney “Sun
aria contest.
It is about time that Sydney started a
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Artists. Town Hall audiences seem to
demand a concert and a half for their
money, judging by their insistence for
encores. If a man or a woman went into
a shop to buy two yards of material they
would not dream of clamoring for an
extra half-yard to be thrown in free.
Take for example the demands made on
that good-humored singer Miklos Gafni,
though it must be said for him that he
seemed delighted to give encore after
encore at his Sydney Town Hall concerts
last week.
This young Hungarian of the pink-and-
white face and shiny black hair revives
childish faith in fairy tales. He was a
prisoner in a Nazi slave-labor camp
when just a youth. He had no idea of
making a career in the singing world, but
to keep up his spirits he used to sing re-
turning to camp from field and road
work. He was heard by two other
prisoners who knew a deal about the
singing voice, and they recognised that
their young fellow-prisoner had a tenor
voice of great beauty and power. Later,
when he was freed, America confirmed
their opinion, and now Gafni is headed
direct for stardom. His truly beautiful
voice seems destined to be greeted by
packed audiences wherever he may sing.
How is your French accent? Does it
live up to the clothes you will be wear-
ing all through the summer by day and
by night, if the, Paris fashions shown by
David Jones are any forecast? There
were 65 models, hot from the designers’
studios, flown from Paris in this gala
dress parade. Just to show how well
Australia can copy them, many of these
models were followed by an exact repro-
duction as to style, though not always
as to color, on the raised platforms set
around one of David Jones’s big show-
rooms.
You will not be stylish this summer if
your skirts are not either pleated or very
full. Even afternoon frocks, slim-fitting
at the back, burst into pleats or drapes
at the front. Tucks in bodice and sleeves
and top of skirts give soft fullness. Your
topcoat will be fitting to the waist, and
from there cut on flared lines. For once
Sydney women can be stylish and sen-
sibly hatted. Hats will be large and
worn straight on. These are more or less
on wide-brimmed sailor lines in fine
straws. The smartest have their crowns
simply banded in ribbon (and heaven
help us when the southerly-buster comes).
Of the evening frocks, personal choice
went to a softly-checked lupin-blue silk
taffeta over a full underskirt of blue net,
the little tight off-the-shoulder bodice
glittering with blue sequins. Color com-
binations in day dresses struck a bright
note ; one of blue and yellow taffeta had
its pleated skirt topped by a blue bodice
and a straw hat in primrose tones. If
you are the type that can wear draped
skirts, then you’ll be happy in almost any
one of the cocktail frocks shown. Mostly
these had swathed hips with large bows
at the side. Charles Lloyd Jones intro-
duced Minister for France Auge, who
introduced the show.
Women, determined not to be outdone
by the models, arrived in their most
glittersome. Mrs. Auge, wife of
France’s Minister, wore black velvet.
Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones’s skirt glittered
with black sequins from hem to waist;
the bodice in lime-green crepe was in the
new style that leaves one shoulder bare.
A large fly-away hip bow was a: feature.
It might have been a gathering of the
U.N.0., so many countries were repre-
sented by their Ministers and Consuls.
The U.K. High Commissioner, E. J.
Williams, was there with his wife and
daughter. Among the noted were
France’s Consul-General de la Croix,
and his wife, the Minister for the
Netherlands Teppema and Mrs. Tep-
pema, the Chinese Charge d’Affaires
Dr. Cheng and Mrs. Cheng, and the
Chilean Charge d’Affaires' M. E. Hub-
ner, his wife and daughter. With them
was the Chilean pianist Claudio Arrau.
Lord Mayor Bartley and Mrs. Bartley,
Lady Jordan and Ruby Adams, the
Goossens couple, her frock of gaily-
striped taffeta, Mrs. John Woods and
Mrs.. Reg Fagan were among the 800
who paid one guinea each to see the
show and afterwards to drink champagne
and eat chicken sandwiches. Food for
Britain benefits.
An artistically-arranged musical pro-
gramme and an interesting talk by artist
Erik Langker were features of last week’s
reception given by the Women’s Com-
mittee of the Royal Empire Society. Mrs.
Keith Morris was the afternoon’s
hostess.


The
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
invites your discussion
of any matters affecting Wills, Executor-
ship, Trusteeship and Estate Manage-
ment. With over sixty years of
experience, The Union Trustee offers
specialised knowledge in all such
matters. Its comprehensive organisation
ensures permanent, competent and sym-
pathetic administration, iS complete
confidence. Charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance .
•in
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of
Directors and Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. A. Bradfield.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c.; A. E. Heath,
c.m.g. ; Robert C. Wilson; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager; L. K, Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman):
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R. J. Donaldson, 'd.s.o., b.c.e. ; Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager: C. D. Wrigley.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—J. C. Vidgen (Branch Manager).
ROCKHAMPTON, Fitzroy Street—A. F. Tannock (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, J, S. Lipscomb.
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel—-And You’ll Jump oul
of Bed in the Morning Full of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest, Yousuffer from wind. Yougetcon-
stipated. Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and weary
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel ”up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pill*
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
fd
fdf
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/G
SKIN EOXION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department. ,
Ex- Written • Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Oil. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
From Accident Dept., £20,000 .. 1
1939.. 769.186 1,530,963 523,061 79,658 1,654,504
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..j
From Accident Dept., £20,000.. 1
1942.. 4.258.762 1,758,646 533,048 68,282 [ 1,913,786
Superannuation Fund, £5OOO ..)
From Vccident Dept., £20,000 .. |
1943.. 539.238 1,816,732 572,825 61,758 1 2,082,923
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 ..J
Prom Accident Dept., £27,500 .. 1
1944.. 046.708 1,877,866 649,323 65,933 \ 2,456,087
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 ..J
1945.. 674.971 2,005,888 717,893 25,146 '
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. 2,741,544
To Contingency Reserve, £60,000
1946.-6,242,619 2,229,635 883,201 23,821
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. -3,010,962
To contingency Reserve, £70,000 j
Industrial Department.
Written
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
Added Guarantee Fund, £ 198 .. 1
1939.. 447,864 263,059 3,762 \ 5,213,854
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..J
Added Guarantee Fund, £1,078 .. |
1942.-1,194,013 537,029 320,495 6,615 } 6,098,070
Superannuation Fund, £5,000 .. J
Added Guarantee Fund, £3,151 .. I
1943.. 908 626,017 842,381 5,934 1 6,389,797
Superannuation Fund, £5,000 ..J
/Added Guarantee Fund, £2,072 .. |
1944.. 756 713,905 344,273 5,230 f 6,675,217
Superannuation Fund, £6,000 .. |
Added Guarantee Fund, £4,212 .. ]
1945- 738,842 376,956 5,098 [ „
Superannuation Fund, £7,000 .. f <,o-i,/oz
To Contingency Reserve, £50,000.. J
1946- 749,335 426,579 2,804 1 , rcr
Superannuation Fund, £B,OOO ..J <.07/,000
* Includes Contingency Funds, etc.
The 74-year-old Colonial is one of the
big five mutual life offices in Australia;
and it writes ordinary, industrial and
accident and sickness contracts in Maori-
land, U.K. and S. Africa as well. Health
and vigor is the overall picture exhibited
by the latest accounts. Features are a
sharp up-turn in new business —a reflec-
tion of current economic conditions as
well as widening recognition of the pro-
tective value of life assurance —further
strengthening of reserves, maintenance of
bonus rates paid to policyholders, the
management’s tight hold upon exes., and,
of course, the common experience of
shrinkage in the net rate of interest
earned.
The record amount of new business
put on the books (£27,496,976, up
£8.923,002) exceeded the previous year’s
figure by 48 p.c. The amount in each
department was £23,266,481 (up
£7,907,400) ordinary and £4,230,495 (up
£1,015,602) industrial. The large average
amount per policy (£lO9l, up £B3) sug-
gests that group assurance, a line
pioneered by the co., figured prominently
in the volume of new contracts. In the
accident department there was a growth
of £25,112 in net premium income
(£171,139), •
The year’s total income from all
sources was £763,763 stronger at
£7,966,526, of which £6,311,250 (up
£686,922) was net premiums and
£1,655,276 (up £76,841) interest, rents,
etc. After paying all legitimate claims
and exes., £3,541,529 remained. Of this
amount £3,380,118 was added to the life
and accident funds (raising them to
£42,496,431), £lOO,OOO was sent to con-
tingency reserves (now £1,100,000),
£26,911 was used to write down the book
value of assets, and £34,500 was allotted
to staff superannuation fund.
Because of the larger amount of new
business written, not much notice need
be taken of the slight increase in the ex-
pense rate. After deducting taxes, exes,
took 15.2 p.c. of net premiums in the
ordinary and 31.3 p.c. in the industrial
section, compared with 13.3 p.c. and 28.8
p.c. respectively in 1945. Assuming that
new business cost 10 times as much as
old, and allowing 3 \ p.c. for considera-
tion for annuities, last year’s new ordi-
nary contracts were handled at a cost of
65.1 p.c.; a creditable performance con-
sidering the high and rising price of
everything.
Although the surplus earned last year
was greater than in 1945, the amount
available for distribution among ord.
policyholders was £159,107 less. That
was because the 1945 figure, contained
surplus carried forward for 1943 and
1944 in respect of U.K. business, and be-
cause bonuses for these two years on
this business were declared at end 1945
in addition to the 1945 distribution:
1940. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Surplus: £ £ £ £
Ordinary . . 836,577 1,168,663 1,027,126 868,019
Industrial . . 121,758 135,493 181,284 135,685
Accident . . 46,083 53,553 80,442 68;373
Total ..1,004,418 1,352,709 1,238,852 1,072,077
Of last year’s surplus, £714,218 in the
ordinary and £84,153 in the industrial
section were distributed as bonuses on
the same scale as for the previous year,
when rates were increased.
The gross rate of interest earned on
mean funds of the three departments
combined was £4 2s. 9d. p.c. (down 3s.
3d. p.c.). After deducting taxation, the
net rate was £3 14s. p.c. (down 2s. Id.
p.c.), and the figure is likely to recede
a little yet before it begins to improve.
However, the co. has a, large reserve for
contingencies, which “will be used shortly
to enable all policy liabilities to be valued
on the assumption that the future net
rate of interest will not exceed 2 \ p.c.”
Here is a summary of the investment
portfolio:
1945. p.c. 1946. p.c.
Public securities
and debentures £26,301,670 68.6 £29,015,935 64.4
Mortgages .. 9,394,567 22.7 9,555,826 21.2
Freeholds, etc. .. 3,048,152 7.4 3,454,646 7.7
Loans on policies 1,570,419 3.8 1,614,803 3.6
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 392,081 0.9 418,929 0.9
Cash and deposits 498,143 1.2 420,706 0.9
Other assets .. 150,768 0.4 590,310 1.8
Public securities (up £2,714,265 last year)
now account for 64.4 p.c. of total assets
as against 48.8 p.c. in 1939. But atten-
tion is now being turned to other securi-
ties. Last year £406,494 was added to
freeholds, etc., and £161,259 to mort-
gages. Most of the £439,542 increase'in
“other assets” was on account of share
purchases.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serve*.
£ £ p P £
1937.. 33,068 8 p.c.= 20,000 2,992 10,076 292,825
1938.. 35,645 8 ~,, 20,000 2,955 12,690 305,515
1939. . 34,117 8 „ „ 20,000 3,135 10,982 316,497
1940.. 36,634 8 „ ~20,000 4,993 11,641 328,138
1941.. 30,721 8 ~,, 20,000 4,140 6,581 334,719
1942.. 26,073 8 „,, 20,000 14,930 325,862
Added insurance reserve, £8325 .. 334,187
1943.. 19,688 8 p.c.= 20,000 2,899 330,976
Added tp reserves, £11,675 .. .. 342,651
1944.. 82,037 9 p.c.= 22,500 I„ „„
To staff fund. £5OOO .. f 3,736 801 343 ’ 452
Unexplained addition reserves, £5,800.. 349,252
1945.. 29,59 a 10ip.c.=22,500* 1,812 5,278 854,530
1946.. 32,3» 13J „ ~ 27,000 1,095 4,252 358,782
1947.. 37 ,<m 144 „ ~29,000 4,901 4,081 362,868
*4 p.c. on £250,000 and 64 p.c. on £200,000 of
capital.
This merchandising co., whose head-
quarters are at Rockhampton, has strong
connections in the centre and central-west
of Queensland. And there are branches
at Brisbane and at Sydney, where the co.
withdrew from the difficult dry-goods
trade about five years back. Ever since
the financial blizzard of the 1890’s the
management has followed a cautious
policy, underpinning the structure against
the possible effects of drought and other
misfortunes. Its success in this direction
can be judged from the fact that paid
capital advanced from £93,750 at the
beginning of this century to £250,000 in
1918 with the aid of only £11,250 of
cash subscriptions. In 1945 4s. a share
(= £50,000) was returned, reducing the
figure to £200,000 in 250,000 shares of
16s. each. And over the last 43 years the
co. has never failed to pay a div., the
average being a shade over 10 p.c.
And the board is still faced with an
embarrassment of riches;
1940. 1944. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £200,000 £200,000
Sundry creditors 49,110 21,354 38,714 52,567
Tax provision 24,262 35,946 53,785 62,812
Freeholds and
plant . . 62,102 24,964 13,139 16,683
Stock.. .. 161,962 126,780 101,41§ 140,923
Book debts .. 59,468 38,984 56,435 57,940
Cash .. .. 39,225 52,563 41,247 12,503
Investments . . 338,753 425,863 456,043 469,193
When the books last closed investments
(largely Government securities and shares
in other cos.) and cash together were over
two and a half times greater than paid
capital. And the “Wild Cat” has no
doubt that, put into the crucible, assets
would assay more than their book value.
The amount coming to outsiders is well
covered by book debts and stocks. The
board has given no hint as to what it
ultimately intends to do with the money
for which it has thus far been unable to
find employment in the business. Mean-
while, returns from outside investments
provide a handy contribution (amount
not disclosed in the published accounts)
to the pool.
During the war demand on defence
account largely offset the effects of ration-
ing, price-fixing, rising costs and trans-
port and othfer difficulties. Since then
turnover in a hungry civilian market has
stepped up as goods became available.
There was a spring of £15,473 in last
term’s gross earnings:
Gross
Profit. Exes.
1931.. £92,044 £74,472
1936.. 87,592 55,789
1938.. 101,091 65,446
1940.. 106,144 69,510
1942.. 105,185 79,112
Gross
Profit. Exes.
1943.. £72,178 £52,491
1944.. 77,032 44,995
1945.. 87,371 57,781
1946.. 107,737 75,390
1947.. 123,210 85,228
Exes, took £9838 of the gain. After
allowing an extra £3806 for depreciation
(£4901, shown as written off in the tablet
£33,081 (up £1829) remained for share-
holders. It was 16.5 p.c. on capital as
against 15.6 p.c. for the previous term. A
point was added to the div., making it
The scrip is tightly held. Buyers re-
cently offered 465. without attracting
sellers. The return at 465, would be
5 p.c. on a 14£ p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the cover is 455. in net tangibles.
William Adams and Co.
r~ Dividends
I’ref. t 0 jj e . Re _
April, Profit. 6.56 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1937.. 28,344 1637 6.5 p.c.= 10,313 16,394 26,268
1938.. 34.389 1750 10.1 „ „ 15,938 16,701 42 969
1939.. 34.068 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,389 7,929 50,898
1940.. 34.270 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,791 7,729 58 627
1941.. 21.767 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 53 852
1942.. 40.195 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,653 67’,605
1943.. 40.094 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,552 81 057
1944.. 40.449 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,907 94 964
1945.. 37.960 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 11,418 106,382
1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 15,279 121,661
1947.. 53.763 1750 10.1 „ „ 35,4 16 16,597 138,258
One essential to flourishing trade is a
well-equipped and efficient industry; and
industry today is in urgent need of new
electrical, engineering and other capital
equipment to meet new needs and make
good the wear and tear and obsolescence
that occurred during the war years, when
it \yas not possible to get replacements.
Since war ended the difficulty of cos.
like this one, which specialises in en-
gineering and electrical equipment, lubri-
cants and various brands of hardware
and has Commonwealth-wide connec-
tions, has been to keep stocks abreast of
demand..
Moreover, in the long-term, demand
and prices both seem likely to settle at
a higher level than pre-war, though prob-
ably at a lower level than today. So
the board decided to consolidate the co.’s
position by getting in more share capital
—150,000 new 14s. ords. were offered
and readily taken, two fot; five, in August
last. That lifted paid capital to £375,000
in 25,000 £l7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 500,000
ords. of 14s. each. The new capital,
together with an extra £15,516 of out-
side money, went mainly into stocks (up
£78,705), and book debts (up £46,606):
1938. 1941. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £182,500 £270,000 £270,000 £375,000
Liabilities .. 2 7 0,2 8 7 167,6 14 3 6 0,9 00* 376,422
Freeholds .. 109,085 1 09,085 116,999 133,206
Plant, etc. .. 21,506 22,789 12,086 17,712
Stocks .. 196,508 171,004 310,468 389,173
Book debts .. 168,859 195,89 0 3 00,60 2 347,204
Cash, shares, etc. 10,245 19,166 25,880 21,165
* Including provision for tax and contingencies.
The net addition of £16,207 to freeholds
reflects expansion in Victoria. The more
or less liquid surplus (£381,120) was
£105,076 stronger than at the previous
balance, owing to the introduction of
fresh capital.
After allowing for taxation, deprecia-
tion and other contingencies, and includ-
ing £1214 tossed into the insurance re-
serves, the net result was £11,942 stronger
at £53,763. That covered the prefs.
full contract rate and 14.9 p.c. on the
£350,000 of ord, capital, compared with
16.3, 14.7, 15.7, 15.6, 15.6, 8.1 and 13.1
p.c. back to 1940. The new capital has
not had an opportunity to develop its
full earning capacity. The div. was kept
at 10.1 p.c, for the tenth year in succes-
sion, and the £16,597 that remained
brought reserves to £138,258.
Net earnings for the five years to the
close of accounts in 1945 averaged
£36,096, compared with an average of
£30,620 for the preceding quinquennium.
For 15 years before that those in the
engineering and ancillary trades had to
face a combination of high costs and
severe competition, especially from cheap-
labor countries, which culminated in
slump in the early 1930’5, and the co.
jettisoned £70,500 of capital. That put
the business on an even keel, and steady
progress has been recorded since. Exactly
what the future holds for the business it
is difficult to say at the moment. The
economic background of international
trade is very fluid. Much will depend
upon what happens in U.S., and upon
whether the rising cost-price structure
in Australia becomes top-heavy and re-
tards demand.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the ords. at 325. and the prefs. at
315., at which figures the return is 4.4 p.c ;
aud 4.5 p.c. respectively on the basis of


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER ?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
M: :MJ
Filter
Cylinder
1
a
FI
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and. Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOX^
osuujvax
mm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS '•
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
BREN GUN CARRIERS
Running order. Price £lOO with Battery f.o.r. Albury.
Full range of spare parts. Kerosene vapouriser specially
designed for Bren Carriers and Ford V 8 Motors. Price
of vapouriser £21 —fitting extra.
CADILLAC 39 H.P. PETROL MOTORS (as new)
Suitable for cars, trucks and auxiliary power. Complete
with all accessories but gearbox. £125 crated f.o.r. Albury.
GENERAL STUART AND LEE TANKS
Petrol engines, suitable emergency tractor work, scrub
clearing, timber haulage, etc. Prices on application.
FORD TRUCK TYPE GEAR BOXES £6/10/- each
FORD DIFFERENTIALS
Complete with axles. Suit 1938 to 1942 models.
£lO each f.o.r. Albury.
"HOMELITE" LIGHTING SETS—3Ov., ISOOw.
The famous Homelite Set is the answer to all light and
power troubles in your country home. Easily portable
and completely dependable. Price £24/10/-, including
Voltage Regulator, f.o.r. Albury.
VOLTAGE REGULATORS
12-volt and 30-volt Regulators suitable for Home Lighting
Sets. Ensures longer life of your Set and a completely
automatic control of output. Price £4/10/- f.o.r. Albury.
CHASSIS FRAMES
Suit all types of Chevrolet 6 Cars, Utilities and Trucks
1940-42; also to suit Dodge, Fargo and Ford Trucks.
ALSO Amp. meters, volt meters, portable telephone: i idi itors,
batteries to suit cars, trucks and home-lightinj, •ets-, also
many other items.
Write for our catalogue
BAKER MOTORS
478 OLIVE STREET, ALBURY
TELEPHONE 629
1797
1947
THE
GREATNESS
OF
NEWCASTLE
How many Australians know —
That since coal was discovered at Newcastle,
northern collieries have produced 350,000,000
tons, valued at £124,000,000?
That industrial output for the year ended
June 30, 1946, was worth £37,604,000?
That raw materials and fuel used in that year
were valued at £25,813,400?
That during the last wool season 180,000 bales
of WOOL were appraised and sold in
Newcastle to world buyers?
That Hunter River rural industries provide
enormous quantities of butter, milk, cheese,
meat and vegetables for the State capital and
for export?
With inexhaustible supplies of coal, cheap power,
ample water, abundant low-priced land for factory
sites, and direct rail, road and shipping facilities,
Newcastle represents
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST
INDUSTRIAL OPPORTUNITY
With pride in great national achievement
Newcastle prepares appropriately for its
150th ANNIVERSARY
Make a note of the date—
SEPTEMBER 5 TO SEPTEMBER 20
Order your copy of "Newcastle—lso Years” —
the impressive volume which depicts Australia’s
outstanding story of development.
For particulars of the Grand Anniversary Celebrations
—eisteddfod, band contest, racing carnival and other
sporting events —and for accommodation, write to
the "Organiser”—
Telephone: G. D. MITCHELL,
Newcastle; B 1315 City Hall, NEWCASTLE.
last year’s distributions. Net tangible
cover is 19s. 6d. ords. and £2O-odd prefs.
Paringa Mining and Exploration
As more labor and materials became
available, London - controlled Paringa
Mining and Exploration Co. Ltd., which
has a large programme of development
and expansion in hand, stepped-up
production and treatment figures. Opera-
ting results over the last three years as
follows. —
Re-
Ore Hoad covery
Treated, Value, Gold,
Aug., Tons. Cwt. Oz. Profit.* , —Dividend! —
1944. .66,065 5.10 £10,069 10 p.c.= £9,659
1945. 5.75 19,500 13,147 12* „ „ 13,281
1946. .92,881 5.21 20,827 15,587 12* ~ ~ 18,593
* After allowing for taxation, depreciation, etc.
t Less U.K. income tax, now 9s. in £.
Last term an extra 15,857 tons of slightly
lower-grade ore was milled for an ad-
ditional 13270 z. fine gold. Recovery was
approximately 86 p.c. as against 87.9 p.c.
for the previous term. The metal, less
realisation charges, plus £10,906 of
sundry revenue —mostly profit on share
investments —brought in £191,184 (up
£32,849). Including provision for taxa-
tion (£11,127) and depreciation, etc.
(£6169), exes, totalled £175,597, leaving
a profit of £15,587 (up £2440). The 12|
p.c. div., less tax, called for £18,593.
A tight hold was kept upon outgoings.
Mining, treatment and development costs
work out at 325. 9d. (up a ton, and
other exes, at ss. (down a
ton, giving an overall figure of 375. 9£d.
(up l£d.) a ton. A creditable perform-
ance considering an extra 1220 ft. of
development (4589 ft. in all) was carried
out.
At end August last ore reserves totalled
220,130 tons (down 10,550 tons), averag-
ing s.2ldwt. Recent developments in the
upper levels of the main group promise
to expand this figure without lowering
average grade. High-grade telluride ore
has been discovered in Block 45 and the
Croesus. *
In April, 1946, paid capital advanced
from £193,170 to £270,440 by the issue
of 1,545,370 new Is. stock units at 2s. 6d.
each. The fresh capital (£77,270), plus
premium money (£115,903), less under-
written exes., etc. (£12,111), brought in
£181,062 net. The year’s capital ex-
penditure amounted to £19,870. When
the books closed cash totalled £212,952,
and there was £84,884 in broken ore,
stores, debtors’ balances, etc. The amount
coming to outsiders was £28,766. Surplus
funds will be swallowed in the big pro-
gramme of development and plant ex-
tension, which is to be pushed ahead as
labor and materials permit.
In addition to the present plant
(capacity 95,000 tons p.a.), a new 50,000
ton-p.a. unit is to be installed to treat
oxidised ore. The deeper levels of the
Paringa mine (800 ft. to 1200 ft.) qre to
be opened up, and the adjacent North
Kalgurli Central, Croesus Central, Block
45 and Brownhill Extended properties
are to be further explored and developed.
The Maritana leases, next to Mt, Char-
lotte at the northern end of the Kal-
goorlie field, have been increased by 77
acres, making 176 acres in all and cover-
ing about a mile along the strike of the
lode.
Paringa holds a substantial interest in
Mt. Charlotte (paid capital £100,921),
which promises to become a large pro-
ducer. Wiluna holds a £A220,000 option
over this property, and is about to com-
mence development. The drill has in-
dicated 1,122,209 tons of 5.36dwt. ore to
a depth of 750 ft. in the northern section,
and 500,000-odd tons of 4dwt. ore in the
southern portion.
The co.’s future depends largely upon
developments in the lower levels of the
Paringa block, and upon how the Mari-
tana and recently acquired Queen
Margaret areas turn out. The last-men-
tioned area, which is about 18 miles
east of Kalgoorlie, produced 75,6720 z.
from 67,255 tons ore to a depth of 800 ft.
in the early days. It is now to be tested
by the Mt. Charlotte Co., which is to
have a 50 p.c. interest in any leases
taken up.
“Herb”: Cairns hinterland mineral
belt looks like staging its greatest revival
since the mining booms of the late 1880’s
and beginning of the present century,
when lode tin, stream tin, wolfram, copper
and silver lead, with alluvial and reef
gold areas, were worked from Dimbulah
to Herberton and back through Mt.
Garnet to Mungana and across to the
Tate River. The recent wolfram price
rise has stimulated interest, and tin pros-
pectors have opened new shows and re-
opened old ones in the Hejrberton and
Irvinebank mineral belt. Orient Camp and
Stannary Hills, former large tin-produc-
ing areas, are receiving attention. Dredg-
ing at Mt. Garnet is also being stepped
up, while gullies about Smith’s Creek and
Tate River are echoing again to the sound
of pick and shovel wielded by tin scratch-
ing parties. Opening up of what is classed
as a rich silver-lead lode in old workings
on the Etheridge field has been followed
by a rush of claim peggers, and a mile
of ground, covering some 25 leases, has
been marked out. The find was made
in a show worked nine years ago,
but abandoned when the two prospectors,
Short and Donaldson, got disheartened
because bags of sample ore lay on Cairns
wharf for months awaiting transport
south for treatment. Encouraged by
present prices for silver and lead, Pollard
and Loudon, who had been trying Roch-
dale pastoral holding for gold, tin and
copper over the last 18 months, decided
to give this show another turnover, and
were amazed with richness of the ore
they broke out from the old workings.
Location of the new-old field is about
33 miles from Einasleigh railhead, with
a fair bush road. Some of the 40 tons
already broken out has reached Einasleigh
for transport to Cairns. Shortage of
labor is retarding development work.
* * * •
North Kalgurli (W.A.) will pay a final
Is, (stg.) div., less U.K. tax of 9s. in the £,
on August 6. An interim of 6d. a share
was distributed last Feb. Together the
two payments are equal to 75 p.c. on
the 2s. shares as against 62| p.c. for the
previous year.
« * * *
Advances by the Westralian Govern-
ment under the Mines Development Act
last year totalled £12,488, mainly in aid
of mining and to instal equipment
(£9339) and for transport and sustenance
for prospectors (£2547). Refunds made
by those who had benefited by previous
advances amounted to £llOl.
* ♦ ♦ •
Westralian State batteries —there are
now 22 in operation—have been, and still
are, a great benefit to prospectors and
small leaseholders. Value of output of
these batteries to end 1946 is estimated
at gold £12,763,769, tin £94,445. Capital
expenditure at £547,588 exceeds revenue
by £138,586.


Everybodys
snapping it now!
The man in the sky! The man in the mine!
At last they’ve got chocolate that’s made
especially for men "not so sweet”. And
that loud "SNAP” you hear as you break a
block of Small’s Club Chocolate means plenty
the louder the "SNAP” the better the
quality of the chocolate. And Small’s
<~lnb Chocolate breaks with a good
loud "SNAP”
every time.
'Ap
What makes these men think they
can keep Small’s to themselves?
Girls like their Club Chocolate
"NOT SO SWEET". Try it, girls.
Small's make great Chocolate
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES HAROLD PEACH late of 11 Evelyn
Street Penshurst.—TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN
PEACH has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 63 of
1947 on the ground of Desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court House King Street
Sydney by the 25th day of September 1947 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
GEORGE MONTGOMERY STAFFORD, Solicitor, T 9
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) G. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
WOULD MARTHA'EMMA HOLLAND and DOROTHY
HOLLAND, the wife and daughter respectively of
ALBERT ROBERT HOLLAND, who died at Lake
Cargelligo on the 18th September, 1946, ,or any
person knowing their whereabouts, kindly communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney?
LOUDEN.—The next-of-kin of JOSEPH LOUDEN,
who died at Sydney in 1943, or any person knowing
their whereabouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
WOULD the wife and/or children of GEORGE
SAMUEL MARSDEN, who died at Hay on the 17th
November, 1946, or any person knowing their where-
abouts, kindly communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney?
SUNDRY SHOWS
LIGHT AND MURK.
The Australian Watercolor Institute’s
24th annual exhibition, held at the N. S.
Wales Education Department Gallery, has
the usual large nfimber of exhibits —200,
representing 84 painters. There is also a
high average level of achievement, al-
though the upper bracket of quality is
occupied firmly by only three painters,
Norman Lindsay, John Eldershaw and
Margaret Coen.
Norman Lindsay’s “Rita” is a powerful
compound of strength and color and
subtlety—a darkly beautiful young woman
painted with a serene balance between
heavy-lidded eyes, passionate mouth,
arrogant nose and strong, bone struc-
ture. It has admirable touches, as in the
heavy, almost rolling, white of the eye,
contrasted with the glowing brown;
which, combined with a gown that
shimmers from the smooth paint, makes
up an image of fire and character and
grace. “Odalisque,” another Lindsay, is
alight with color and is an interesting and
excellent study in technique. Its category
is purely decorative.
Margaret Coen shows several paintings,
including “The Pear Tree,” which lights
up the paper like a flame. John Elder-
shaw, always a reliable watercolorist, has
“Evening Light,” with “Pastoral” running
a hard second. Eldershaw paints with a
clear, full wash which occasionally goes
flat. But when it does his work is still
good. In “Evening Light” he has, in the
background of hills, captured the fleeting
glow of light splendidly (the nearest
parallel is a fine Blamire Young in the
N. S. Wales National Gallery), and in the
foreground there is a curve of river, cut-
ting into the picture, and all the nuances
of light in the trees and an expert but un-
ostentatious treatment of their foliage.
The N. S. Wales Gallery bought four
paintings. As to three, Lorna Muir
Nimmo’s “Autumn Landscape, Oberon,”
G. K. Townshend’s “The Guardians” ,
and Robert Campbell’s “Dark Land-
scape” seemed excessively dark, not to
say glum—an effect which was, perhaps,
heightened by a dull day and the unclean
walls of the Education Department
Gallery. Still, other and better paintings
had tins disadvantage to cope with, and
“Rita,” especially, rose triumphantly
above it.
None of the outstanding paintings men-
tioned was for sale, but there'were others
which the Gallery trustees might have
considered. Their fourth purchase was
Frank Medworth’s “Autumn Morning,
Double Bay”—a composition of fine
luminous water and bright slick lines of
boats —as though the buyers, making
amends for so much darkness, had de-
liberately chosen an extreme of facile
lightness.
Among other works Freda Robert-
shaw had a “River Study,” a pool of pale
water and a sharply defined bent hand
of tree. Something like an early Paul
Nash and, like even the best of Nash’s
work, cold, a little unreal and a trifle
dead. Jean Isherwood has four paintings,
the best of them being “Frost Below Mt.
Cook,” where she has an opportunity to
exploit her flair for drifting mists. Her
other work, like Lorna Nimmo’s
“Autumn Landscape, Oberon,” is remark-
able only in flashes.
Frank McNamara’s “Convict Ruins,
Port Arthur” uses darkness for a definite
dramatic purpose, and in his “Evening
on the Derwent” dark and light and
soft trails of smoke make a fine and
vivid statement. J. Nixon Gee’s “Ap-
proaching Rain” and William E. Trist-
ram’s “Approaching Storm” are worth
noticing as examples of genuine Aus-
tralian light, contrasting with the general
tendency to imitate English murk.
Miklos Gafni.
Allied to a Rolls Royce larynx the 24-
year-old Hungarian tenor has a chest
about a foot thick, which helps to explain
why he can unleash a note of baritone
quality and then soar, with beautiful and
pure tone, straight to high C. The amaz-
ing things about his voice are that the
transition from chest to head register
defies discernment, and that, hitting
cleanly a stratospheric note, he can,
when it seertfs that all his pulmonary
reserves must be exhausted, suddenly
double the volume. This he did during
an unusual Hungarian lullaby at one of
last week’s Sydney concerts, and the
glorious stream of melody would have
adequately filled a hall twice the size
of the Sydney Town Hall.
With such tremendous power at his
command his obvious forte is grand
opera, and the more florid and more im-
passioned the aria the better Gafni sings
it. His “Vesti la Giubba” from “Pagli-
acci” was a complete vocal abandonment
to all the grief and bitterness with which
Leoncavallo invested this great air, yet
throughout its rendition the tenor’s porta-
mento was smooth as silk. In striking
contrast was Donizetti’s lovely “Una
Furtiva Lagrima,” the opening phrases
broadly flowing, with, later, the dramatic
values given with unerring judgment.
His manner is one of complete assur-
ance—with justification—that his voice
will easily stand up to any strain that
any known song can put upon it. He
gives the impression that he sings because
he must, and that song comes as natural
to him as laughing does to a kookaburra.
He makes singing appear ridiculously
easy, especially in the lilting measures of
his native folk songs and in Neapolitan
love songs. Only when h£. gets on to
English ballads and some of the more
delicate German lieder do a few of the
ragged edges—the result of his so-far
brief apprenticeship—appear. And he
obviously has yet to learn how to get
the best out of Mozart.
Gafni’s voice has all the basic ele-
ments of greatness. Such additional
artistry as he is able to acquire over the
next five years will determine whether the
mantle of Caruso has fallen on his broad
shoulders.
Two Yeats Plays.
The two Yeats plays put on by May
Hollinworth’s Metropolitan Players at
Reiby-place, Sydney, might fairly be
described as cocktails. “The Words
Upon the Windowpane,” a prose play
about Swift, was sharp and bitter; “On
Baile’s Strand,” a mythological piece,
had, the characteristic delicacy of Yeats’s
early poetry.
From a literary point of view one
could not ask for more interesting bever-
ages. From the dramatic viewpoint, the
theatre had provided two appetisers and
no dinner.
The fault Jay partly in the selection of
the two slight plays, the Swift item hardly
more than an animated paragraph, the
other failing to emerge from the remote-
ness of legend, its exquisite lines like
jewels on the hand of a mummy.
But, even so, more could have been
done with the plays. There were oppor-
tunities for stronger, more clear-cut
characterisation in the actors surround-
ing Bea Wenban, who, sometimes touching
genuine emotional depth, played the
medium through whom speak Stella,
Vanessa and Swift; and, rememberine
Yeats’s passion for aristocratic
ings and his interest in the bizarre and
colorful Blavatsky, the set was too dingy.
In the other play, though set and cos-
tumes were admirable, John Bushelle’s
continuous roaring as Cuchulain drove
the poetry out the window and must
have considerably disturbed the lions at
Taronga Park across the water. Kevin
Brennan, on the other hand, should have
been a more robust Fool; his skilful
repetition of his melancholy Jaques in
“As You Like It” was unsuited to a
character obviously meant to be a bit
like Falstaff, a bit like Steinbeck’s Lennie,
and most of all like “the great lad with
a beery face” in Yeats’s poem.
Reviewed Briefly.
“Light and shade” are the main pre-
occupation of Simon Barere, the Rus-
sian pianist. He got so much of it into
Bach’s Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue at
his Melbourne Town Hall concert that
the piece s’ounded like a new creation.
Unsuspected contrasts turned up in
Schumann’s Etudes Symphoniques as
they came from his agile fingers and gave
more point to the magnificent finale. His
Chopin glimmered, glistened and shone
through a soft veil of enamel, and some-
times nearly disappeared altogether,
Rachmaninoff is) said to be Barere’s own
special province, and, in fact, it is re-
putedly that composer’s own piano on
which he was playing. He broke all
previous speed records in his playing of
two of his fellow-countryman’s pre-
ludes without once losing the quality of
the music. He did the same with Papa
Liszt in a remarkable performance of
his work on one of Petrarch's sonnets.
In the Liszt Rhapsodic No. 12 he left
a big house gasping without altering his
relaxed pose in the slightest.
* * * *
Della Chiesa had the biggest audience
of her season for her last recital at Mel-
bourne Town Hall. As in earlier con-
certs, she showed subtlety in her singing
of old songs by Cesti, Scarlatti and
Monteverde, sensibility and delicacy in
Debussy and wit in her ballad items. In
the Death of Margherita from Boko’s
“Mephistopheles” she acted the demented
daughter to perfection.
* * * *
Eugene Goossens made an auspicious
beginning as permanent conductor of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra at his Town
Hall concert last week. The manner in
which the orchestra responded to his
baton in the Bach No. 1 Suite was heart-
ening, and the Beethoven Fifth which
followed was excellent, especially in the
set of variations which comprise the
second movement. The dexterity of the
double-basses in the trio of the Scherzo
was particularly fine. Not so happy was
the orchestra’s presentation for the first
time in Australia of the first suite from
Ravel’s “Daphnis and Chloe.” At best
Ravel is an acquired taste, and the
orchestral suites from the ballet are the
essence of jerky impressionism. Delius’s
“Dance Rhapsody No. 1,” also
given a first performance here, had more
to it and featured some splendid wood-
wind playing.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
; m
■
mil
Hill
It
ill
m
iiii
m
it
i
m
Modem high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
II I' 0
□
B¥a
/
\»
SE
6790*6.47
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
A great many Sydney punters must now
be regretting that they ever had any financial
interest in the Thompson-Cook struggle for the
jockeys’ premiership. At Canterbury on Satur-
day the pair had 13 solidly-backed mounts
in eight races for one winner. Cook now leads,
41 to 40.
Interesting was the success of Cursory
(Sellwood), who defeated Dorahbo and Name-
sake in the first of three divisions of the six-
furlongs Mixed Stakes. Cursory is owned in
England, where he was bred but did not race.
Coming to Australia early last year he had a few
runs without showing anything in particular,
hut, now thoroughly acclimatised, he may do
well in better, than Mixed Stakes company. He
is a son of Precipitation, sire of Airborne.
In the Flying Handicap Verbage went from
first the previous week to second-last in a
big field. Star Vite (Sellwood), runner-up to
Verbage on the occasion mentioned, took charge
at the top of the straight and, hard ridden,
downed Pearler and Decorate, allegedly bring-
ing off a betting coup, “£5OOO to £6OO ip one
wager.”
‘ You’d better stick to horseriding !"
Although eligible for restricted-class races.
Bell Rock (F. Walker), stablemate and full
brother of Turn Again, tackled and beat open
company in the Canterbury Park Handicap,
11 furlongs, but it was about as weak a middle-
distance field as could be assembled. Deep Sky
and Spear Patrol were in the places. Beau
Brummell had been among the acceptances
for the Handicap and for a Mixed Stakes,
same distance. The stable chose the Mixed
Stakes and saw its animal beat Binnia
Lassie and Devilment, but had to take even
money. Beau Brummell carried 8.7 (he had
101 b. less in the Handicap), and won
by half a neck in 2.231; Bell Rock’s advan-
tage was a half-head and he took 2.24. Doon,
rider of Binnia Lassie, fired in an appeal to
the stewards which was dismissed with costs —
£5 for being frivolous.
A McCurley apprentice, Barrett, had his
first winning mount on Marshal Tito in the
Welter —the other Marshal Tito was having a
bad week in the Balkans. Agile (Cook) and
Thanks America (Thompson) appeared to have
the race between ’em till the youngster brought
the Marshal along with some really vigorous
horsemanship. Cook had previously scored
on Lucky Escape in the third Mixed Stakes;
in the second division Hava Chat (Cracknell)
tossed Killiecrankie and Lady Contrast.
Though tote divs. at Canterbury are seldom
as good as they are at Randwick, they beat book-
makers’ prices. Cursory, 14 to 1 in the Ring,
paid better than 22 to 1 on the tote: Hava
Chat, 15 to 1, was over 28 to 1 on the
machine; Marshal Tito, 25 to 1, returned
£7 7s. 3d. for ss. Even on the shmter-pnced
winners, Staunch (5 to 2) and Star Vite (7 to 1),
the tote price was a point to the good.
* * * *
At Mentone on Saturday Badger rode the
only two favorites to be placed first. It was
not Purtell’s day. Purtell can claim 42 out-
right winners against Badger’s 39, but should
it come to a tie Badger has five dead-heats
to his credit, Purtell three.
In the Lincolnshire Handicap Badger was
on Hindu Prince, a brilliant two-year-old last
season until he met with a mishap. Under
Hoysted’s care he has made a good recovery.
Vocation, a 100-to-l chance, led the field till
his steam gave out, leaving Millais and Quezon
in front. Neither proved any match for Hindu
Prince, who shot away to win by three lengths.
Hindu Prince is a son of Dhoti, whose
progeny dominate Melbourne racing. Another
of them in the money at Mentone, and another
for Badger, was the two-year-old colt Balkaul,
who, having the run of the race in the first
division of the Mallacoota Handicap, had
more than three lengths in hand from Saxony
and Derfla at the finish. Derfla, however, had
struck interference when First Thought was
pulled up near the half-mile. _ The second
division saw an improved Kindling (A. Ayres,)
too good for Con’s Molly and Apollo.^
Going and weight (lOst.) proved too much
in the Ascot Thousand for St. Fairy, who is
no wet-weather horse. Hellenist is dilterent,
galloping, well in the mud, his 9.10 notwith-
standing, he had the best of a rousing finish
with Sir Marfield, Medicine and the f&yontc
Clatterbag. Williamson,
Hellenist’s horseman,
had an easier ride on
King’s Walk in the
Berkeley Handicap of a
mile and five furlongs.
Thor and ’ St. Buzz
paced it neck and neck
over the final furlong
of the Knaresborough
Handicap and at the
post the judge, with no
camera to assist him,
was unable to separate
’em. Thor showed rare
gameness; conceding
171 b. to a much younger
opponent, he was re-
peatedly headed but
refused to be beaten.
In the Heatherbrae
Handicap for three-year-
olds the Valiant Chief
colt Brave Leader hit
the front early and re-
mained there.
s{e *
The Bernborough in-
fluence is showing up
in Brisbane and Sydney
handicapping. As a
sequel to the imposi-
tion of 10.7 on Attley m
the Doom b e n Ten
Thousand, Shannon has
been loaded with 10.5
in the Epsom and
Metropolitan ; no horse
has won either with
anything like that
weight, and Shannon
will not start. Melbourne
handicappers (clubs too)
are more considerate of
good horses. Russia,
for example, is in the Caulfield Cup with 9.9
and in the Melbourne Cup with 9.10.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Two-year-old: Set Purpose, 1; Imperium, 2;
Barita, 3. Mixed Stakes (seven furlongs):
Cursory, 1; Rotoiti, 2; Royal Countess, 3.
Mixed Stakes (10 furlongs): Rifle, 1; Beau
Brummell, 2; Ceylon, 3. Flying; Decorate, 1;
Tahmoor, 2; Star Vite, 3. Rosehill Handicap:
Air Flare, 1; Nepean River, 2'; El Senor, 3.
Welter: Agile, 1; Eastralia, 2; Parfait, 3.
* ♦ * *
Alan Waterson, Australian amateUr
golf champion, had no great difficulty in
retaining his N.S.W. title at Royal Sydney.
After wading through the field, he
“tossed” his challenger, A. S. Bradshaw,
a former English international, 7 up and
6. Like the pros. Cremin and Von Nida,
Waterson is only a little chap, but good.
* * * *
About 75,000 barrackers braved a
heavy drizzle of rain to watch the six
V.F.L. games on Saturday, and most of
them got their money’s worth, close
finishes rewarding them in the main
matches. At Carlton the Blues, victorious
in 12 of their 14 matches, trailed Rich-
mond for three quarters and then finished
all over the Tigers, ending with 10.10 to
9.9. At Collingwood the locals, third on
the list, just managed to hold off the
oncoming Geelong by 12.11 to 11.11. At
North Melbourne the visiting “Sowth”
got there by four points, 8.18 to 8.14. At
M.C.G. the high-flying Melbourne men
were no good in a greasy ground game,
Fitzroy’s midgets walloping them by 11.8
to 7.10; Essendon slid round at St. Kilda
for 14.18 to 7.13 against the locals, and
at Footscray the Bulldogs, moody from
a run of defeats, fell upon Hawthorn
with a sort of grim joy and collected
13.18 to 10.7.
% * * *
Parramatta forwards, playing the type
of tight solid Rugby Union Sydney
usually sees only from visitors, beat
Randwick 14-3. The Parramatta lock
Bruce Mann and Boland, captain and
utility back, were outstanding; inspired
by both, the backs tackled solidly. North
came good, 13-6, at Drummoyne’s ex-
pense. after a series of defeats in club
games. Roger Cornforth, like Boland
unlucky not to be with the depart-
ing Australian team, again distinguished
himself. Gordon and East drew, 15
points apiece in a rough game. Manly
had a feast of scoring against Eastwood,
32-12, and so had St. George against
Western Suburbs, 22-3, the St. George
five-eighth Ron Campbell scoring 13
points.
With all good wishes, though not with-
out an intrusion of doubts, the Rugby
Union tourists who are to play in Eng-
land, Scotland, Wales, Ireland, France
and North America set out on their
travels. They are already carrying a
casualty, and, taken by and large, they
do not look nearly as strong a combina-
tion as the 1939 voyagers, who had to re-
turn without playing a match. Some of
those fine chaps died in the war; others
earned decorations for distinguished ser-
vice ; only two or three remain as foot-
ballers. One of them, Smith, and not
the best of them, led a N.S.W. League
team to a 22-10 victory over Queens-
land on the day the new Wallabies left
Sydney—that shows how good the 1939
Union side was.
JK * * *
In an eventful week for Australian
boxing Ken Bailey put it all over Orestes
Diago at, the Sydney Stadium and Norm
Gent, equally fast and skilful, got an
undisputed decision over Eddie Hudson
at West Melbourne. Hudson, a negro
from California, went the distance with
Patrick, and Diago was brought from
Cuba to fight the champion, whose com-
ment on the Bailey-Diago exhibition was
“There’s a good fifteen hundred gone
west.” In Brisbane Alf Wells, a prisoner
of the Japs, took terrific punishment
stoically from Clem Sands, 31b. heavier
and about half his age, and was on bis
feet at the finish, though beaten. But
in one of the preliminaries Jack Lewis,
20-year-old son of a police sergeant, was
battered to the canvas and was carried
dying to the General Hospital, in the
maternity ward of which lay his wife and
baby. In Queensland, as in N. S. Wales,
there is no workers’ compensation for
boxers. The Stadium people voted £5OO
to the widow “as an act of grace.”
Jack Kirkham, the Victorian middle-
weight, is unlikely ever to forget his visit
to Sydney last week. At Leichhardt
he outpointed Ern Jarvis in two-
thirds of 12 rounds, but, taking things
too easily, was deprived of the decision.
While storming into his' dressing-room
he was arrested on an assault charge
lodged in December. In the actual fight
he forced his man all over the ring, and
Jarvis seldom stopped still long enough
to put any weight behind the punches he
landed, which were few. On the other
hand, Kirkham landed many, and blood
poured from Jarvis’s nose, which was
damaged. In the last round Kirkham
ran into a right that floored him, but he
was up again immediately, unhurt.
Boxers who run away seldom win con-
tests. Jarvis was a very fortunate excep-
tion.
* * * *
Many Americans whose memories of
the Ring go back half a century award
Corbett, Fitzsimmons, Jeffries, Johnson
and Dempsey higher pedestals in the
Pantheon of pugs than Joe Louis. Others
of lesser experience hold that Louis is
the greatest heavyweight that ever
fought with the gloves. Since he became
champion by knocking out Braddock
in eight rounds at Chicago on June 22,
1937, Louis has successfully defended his
title 23 times. None of the old-timers
had anything like that record. Jeffries
conquered nine challengers before he re-
tired ; Burns settled the hopes of eight,
Corbett and Dempsey of five, Johnson
of four and Gene Tunney of two ; Fitz-
simmons, Schmeling, Jack Sharkey and
Braddock lost the championship in their
next contest after winning it. As a pro-
fessional Louis has had 58 contests and
lost only one —to Schmeling, who knocked
him out in 12 rounds at New York on
June 19, 1936. He avenged himself in
half a round, Joe is 33—younger than
Fitzsimmons when Fitz whipped Cor-
bett, and than either Johnson or Jeffries
when they had their argument at Reno.


RECRUITS
WANTED
for
12 YEARS SERVICE
in the
ROYAL
AUSTRALIAN
NAVY
Good Pay. Free Medical and Dental Treat-
ment. Opportunities for Promotion, Travel,
Sport and improvement of education.
AGE GROUPS
Seamen, Stokers,' Signalmen, Telegraph-,
ist. Writers (Clerks), Stores Ratings,
Sick Berth Ratings, Cooks, Stewards.
Shipwrights and Joiners
(Qualified carpenters tvith at least two
years' experience as Shipwright ,
Boatbuilder or Bridgebuilder, who
pass the prescribed Trade Test will be
considered for entry as Shipwrights).
Apprentice Shipwrights and Joiners
(completed at least 3| years)
Fitters & Turners, Boilermakers, Copper-
smiths, Patternmakers, Engine Smiths,
and Moulders, for Engine Room Artificer.
Fitters & Turners, for Ordnance Artificer.
Fitters and Turners, Electrical Fitters
and Instrument Makers, for Electrical
Artificer. Painters, Plumbers, Black-
smiths and Dental Mechanics.
Apprentice Electrical Fitters (completed
3| years) for Electrical Artificer sth class
Musicians
Over 17$
years and
under 21
years.
Tradesmen
of 5 years’
experience
up to
30 years.
Minimum
age 18 years
Tradesmen
of 5 years’
experience,
up to age of
23 years.
(Special
cases up to
25 years)
Minimum
age 18 years
17| to
23 years.
(Tradesmen will be required to pass a trade test before entry)
ALL CANDIDATES will be required to comply with
the Educational and Medical Standards prescribed
for the Branch they desire to enter and produce
Birth Certificate and a Certificate or Statement from
the Headmaster of their last school, showing the
highest Educational Standard attained.
CANDIDATES UNDER AGE OF 21 must have
parent’s consent.
EX R.A.N. AND RESERVE RATINGS
are invited to RE-ENTER for 2, 5 or 12 years, or the
period additional to previous service to complete 12 years.
For full details apply to:
The Naval Recruiting Officer, Beach Road, Edgecliff.
F.M. 5001, Extension 1.
kia
o t
f
SAVE TOMr
YOU Fly
m
d
Finished in woven-striped, water-
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges,-Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
is increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Spread of Investment
The marked increase in turnover on
Stock Exchanges throughout the Com-
monwealth this year is due mainly to
the lifting of the restriction that shares
had to be held for five months before
they could be sold. Another factor that
has assisted in the expansion is the fact
that about 100 companies have been
added to the list of stocks now available
to investors, covering diversified, and in
some cases new, fields of industry.
Among the more active of the new
companies have been Bruck ords. and
Bitumen. Both have comparatively large
share registers, and attracted con-
siderable public interest when dealings
in the shares commenced. A number of
proprietaries that converted into public
cos. obtained extra capital, but admitted
the public by means of 5 p.c. prefs. only.
Except in isolated cases, the majority of
these prefs. opened at a premium of a
few shillings, even for companies which
have not yet proved themselves.
Some very prominent and old estab-
lished concerns figure , among those
which have admitted the public to their
share registers. A few years ago Mc-
Pherson’s shareholders placed a parcel
of 225,000 of their fully-paid 20s. ords.
at a premium of 100 p.c. Last year,
400.000 £1 ords. in Foy and Gibson were
made available at 265. a share, and were
eagerly taken. Considerable dealings
have taken place in both cos.’ shares.
Mcllwraith McEacharn made an issue of
500.000 £1 shares at 225. 6d., half of
which were 5 p.c. participating prefs.
Thompsons (Castlemaine) issued to the
public 237,495 £1 ords. and 125,000 £1
5 p.c. prefs. Ansett Transport Industries
is developing new interests so rapidly
that a new issue this year almost doubled
previous paid capital of £360,000.
This list is by no means exhaustive.
According to Sydney Stock Exchange
“Official Gazette” new issues of share
capital for the 12 months to June 30 last
amounted to over £16.7 millions, which
is indicative of the extent to which the
investing public has had its choice of in-
vestments spread, thanks partly to the
expansion of industry under the impetus
of war, and partly to enforced import
restrictions in the post-war period.
That this expansion, calling for increased
finance, still continues is evident by the
appearance each week of more prospec-
tuses for new issues.
Cos. have as yet received no relief
from the crippling taxation of the war
years, and, in many cases, where ex-
pansion pre-war would have been
financed from their own resources,
directors are now forced to call on
shareholders for assistance. Underwrit-
ing commissions have provided hand-
some contributions to stockbrokers’ earn-
ings for the year to end June last, par-
ticularly in the case of two or three of
the leading underwriting houses.
Statistics compiled by the Common-
wealth Bank sfiow that, after paying taxa-
tion, Australian business in general is
about 10 p.c. less profitable than it was
before the war. Moreover, returns to
shareholders have been further reduced
by double taxation of dividends. Last
year 572 cos. netted 6.2 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), compared with 6 p.c. in 1945 and
6.8 p.c. in 1939. Profit trends as a per-
centage of shareholders’ funds compare
as follows for individual groups:
1939. 1943. 1945. 1946.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Mining and primary t
production .. .. 6.0 5.7 6.2 7.3
Manufacturing .. 8.5 6.8 6.6 6.3
Wholesale .. .. 5.6 7.2 7.5 8.3
Retail 7.8 6.2 7.3 8.6
Services 6.5 5.9 6.0 5.8
Finance 4.7 4.1 4.2 4.7
All groups .. ..6.8 5.9 6.0 6.2
Chief exception to the general strengthen-
ing last year was manufacturing—2o9
cos. showed average profits of 6.3 p.c. as
against 6.6 p.c. 1945 and 8.5 p.c. 1939.
Also, because of strikes and other hold-
ups and the tendency of costs to outstrip
revenue, the services group, notably
shipping, gas and electricity, showed a
decline in net earnings last year. In con-
trast to these recessions strong forward
movements were exhibited by mining,
wholesale and retail trades. Profits of
all these are now above pre-war level.
♦ * * *
At Golds’borough Mort’s annual roll-
up at the end of last month chairman
K. M. Niall drew attention to two
serious problems affecting the Australian
pastoral industry, namely, Noogoora
burr and the dingo. At present the burr
is confined mainly to Queensland, but is
spreading to N. S. Wales, and, in iso-
lated patches, has been located as far
south as the lower Murray River. Esti-
mates prepared by the Queensland De-
partment of Lands in conjunction with
woolbroking firms show that for the
period 1941-46 an average of 8 p.c. of
the Queensland clip was affected. For
the 1941-42 season the estimated loss to
growers was figured at £237,000, and can
be safely put at a very much higher
figure for the 1946-47 clip, which was
grown under more favorable seasonal
conditions and fetched much higher
prices. Methods of carbonising used for
removing Bathurst and other burrs are
not suitable for dealing with Noogoora,
and this seriously affects the limits of
buyers’ bids at auction. The pest has
now reached such proportions that it
cannot be effectively dealt with by cut-
ting or pulling the plant; only some
form of biological control can hope to
cope with it. As for the dingo, while it
has caused some loss of stock in Vic-
toria and South Australia, it has inflicted
greatest damage in Westralia and
Queensland. So greatly has it ravaged
flocks in country contiguous to the
Hammersley Ranges (W.A.) that a num-
ber of properties there have been aban-
doned by their owners ; and in the moun-
tainous country in Queensland owners
in some areas have switched from sheep
to cattle, and even then the dingo has
taken a heavy toll of calves. This pest
got out of hand during the war years
owing to lack of native and other labor
to deal with it. In an effort to cope with
the present position baits were recently
scattered over wide areas by ’plane.
* * * *
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
(Melb.), has made a new issue of
100,000 fully-paid £1 ords. in exchange
for a parcel of existing ords. in News,
Ltd., of Adelaide, the number of which
has not been specified though they repre-
sent “equivalent asset value.” If asset
value was based on net tangible backing
according to last balance-sheet figures
(Herald, 275. . 2d. per share; News,
21s. 6d.), some 126,350 News, Ltd., shares
would have been involved. But that ratio
would not accord with current market
values: Herald ords. are worth about
775. each, whilst the rare dealings in
News shares have been around 40s. The
Herald ordinary div. has been 14 p.c. for
the last seven years and the News 7 p.c.
Acquisition of the News, Ltd., shares
was thought desirable to “bring about a
closer affiliation” between the two evening
papers, the “Herald” (Melb.) and the
“News” (Adelaide). The liaison was
already pretty close, Herald chairman
(Keith Murdoch) being a director of
News, Ltd. The acquisition does not
amount to a controlling interest in News,
Ltd., whose paid capital is £365,327 in £1
shares, of which 50,000 are £lB p.c. cum.
prefs. Herald’s paid capital now moves up
to £1,600,000, consisting of 125,000 first
6} p.c. prefs., 275,000 second 6 p.c. prefs.
and 1,200,000 ords., all of £1 each.
* * * *
The Electricity Trust of S. Aus., which
recently took over from Adelaide Electric
Supply Co., Ltd., has now made an offer
to purchase as a going concern the Mid-
North Electricity Co., Ltd., of Clare
(S.A.). The price offered, £65,000, is ex-
pected to attract the Mid-North co. It
represents about 255. 9d. each for the
co.’s 50,527 £1 shares, which have been
quoted well below par for a long time
in unofficial lists at Adelaide. A special
meeting of shareholders will consider the
proposal late in July. Meanwhile, ques-
tions are being asked regarding the future
of debenture-holders in the now inert
Adelaide Electric Supply Co. Their legal
status, and that of the co. itself, will re-
main unsatisfactory until the debentures
are taken over by the new Trust. Alto-
gether, there are six classes of debentures
in existence, totalling £1,949,064. Interest
rates range from 3J p.c. to 4\ p.c., and
dates of maturity from 1951 to 1964. It
is believed in Adelaide that the Trust is
now taking steps to replace them with
new debentures, bearing identical terms
and guaranteed by the State Government.
# * * *
With three and a half times more
money in circulation today than in 1939,
Maoriland’s manufacturing industries are
in dangerous water, says Henry I.
Kelliher, ex-director of the Bank of New
Zealand and managing director of
Dominion Breweries, Ltd. He sees stabi-
lisation tottering on an internal price
level that’s as unstable as quicksand, and
is perturbed about the rise in the real
cost of living, which is only partly hid-
den by use of £14,500,000 of taxpayers’
money annually in subsidies, so that
goods can be sold below cost. The crux
of the problem to this critic is weak con-
trol of credit and currency, while huge
sterling funds, amassed from sales of
exports, are tied up in London. Methods
which were devised to lift M.L. out of
the depths of depression and to stave off
national bankruptcy now threaten the
country with as dire consequences as
they were intended to avert. The remedy
proposed by Mr. Kelliher is to stabi-
lise the purchasing power of M.L.’s
pound as a key to controlling prices, to
give imports a chance toi expand and to
help industrial expansion take the place
of monetary inflation. But there’s no
sign that Minister of Finance Walter
Nash will be quickly converted. Instead
of relaxing controls M.L.’s Labor Gov-
ernment is making its hold on M.L. in-
dustry tighter than ever.
* * * *
Maoriland has had to turn to Australia
to help it out with cement supplies, the
trouble mainly being lack of coal. At the
annual meeting of Wilson’s N.Z. Port-
land Cement, Ltd., the chairman warned
that the co. would be fortunate if produc-
tion didn’t go lower this year. A quarter
of a million will be spent on modernisa-
tion, but the scheme will take years to
carry out.


/
FOR
MEN
WHO
STUDY
PERSONAL
Ballarat Products, Ltd. (Vic.)
Putting a price on Ballarat Products
scrip at this stage has been a rather
delicate task for the market. The co.
was recently formed to amalgamate
two old-established Ballarat businesses—
George Farmer, Ltd. (bacon curers) and
Sunshine Biscuit Co. Pty., Ltd. For the
merger Farmer’s shares were written
down by 25 p.c. (to 15s, each and Sun-
tSSi o
‘ T p r n°
10s units and capital of Ballarat Pro-
ducts became £103,000 m 10s. shares.
The once-prosperous George Farmer
had suffered badly in recent years from
trade-wars within the bacon industry and
from Government controls. Last term’s
result was a loss of £6957 ; in the four
preceding years profits averaged £1452 —
on paid capital of £90,000. Upon dis-
closure of the merger proposals last
March, Farmer’s £1 shares rose on
’Change from 11s. 9d. to 16s. 9d., despite
the knowledge that they were to lose ss.
in face-value, and despite the absence
of any published information as to Sun-
shine Biscuit’s financial strength or record
of profits. V
However, Sunshine’s accounts for year
ended June 30, 1946, have lately been
disclosed. Net profit of £6856 (after
£4312 tax) represented 11.8 p.c. on capital
and would have been just sufficient to
cover Farmer’s loss for the same period.
Sunshine’s directors distributed none of
the £6856 in dividends. Reserves
were about £lO,OOO on June 30,
Jged, %,4W. ‘“rrent.T3B.293f'
biliti £22,759). As Farmer’s net assets
at the ’ time were £92 ,037, Ballarat Pro-
be credited with combined net
backing of is s gd. for each 10s. share.
price o£ these shares on -change was
lgs 6d , ast week investor at
that ic( . who looks for 4 3 p c . on h is
an 8 div which
would call tor £8240. That is £1384 more
tl,an Sunshine netted for the year to end
and Farmer , s net
• h f rs to en | j
m} d he wit y h £6B t 0 are .
’ , , 6 . ,
Farmers loss in 1946 was excep-
tionally heavy, and better results can be
expected henceforth. Many overhead and
distribution costs will be avoided, since
the clienteles of the two businesses are
similar—chiefly grocery and small-goods
shops. Still, these benefits won’t affect
accounts for the year just ended,
That the difficulties of bacon-curers
were undiminished last term seems clear
from the results of such a co. as Gipps-
land Co-op. Bacon Curing Co. (of
Dandenong in Victoria), whose profit for
the period ending April 30, 1947, was
£lO4, compared with £4278 in 1946.
Moreover, tax rates for Ballarat Pro-
ducts might be somewhat stiffer than they
were for the Sunshine proprietary co.
There are combined reserves of about
£11,971 as well as the year’s earnings that
could be drawn upon for divs., though
on the face of things it would be im-
prudent to do so. The market price of
18s. 6d. a share is based on future pros-
pects.
The Federal price-fixing authority,
having evolved a new formula whereby
clothing traders can do their own
arithmetic and arrive at retail selling
prices on a cost -plus basis, naively re-
marked that any reduction in manu-
facturing costs would be immediately
passed on to the public. Ever since the
war ended the Government has been
blindly fumbling in a sellers’ market
which, with a background of war-time
regimentation, has given it a docile public
for controls. The fundamental position
of industry today is much worse than it
was a year ago. Costs are higher and
still rising at a disquieting rate not yet
fully felt. Moreover, with the labor-
wages-hours position as it is, they will
continue to rise and snowball throughout
the entire economy until goods begin to
be priced out of the market, with the
inevitable effects upon employment and
the standard of living. Also, fuel is
scarcer, and the many bottlenecks which
have restricted production and distribu-
tion of vital goods still persist. The three
main causes of it all are: (1) that private
enterprise has been curbed and checked
for political reasons without compensat-
ing advantage, (2) that the Government
has failed to put first things first, and
(3) that it has failed to give its own ex-
hortations any force by restraining those
sections of organised labor which choose
to flout them.
“Freezing orders” issued by Maori-
land’s Price Tribunal have tied up large
quantities of leather goods, furniture and
clothing and are worrying manufacturers,
traders and the public. Goods banned
from sale have banked up in manufac-
turers’ and traders’ hands, while the
tribunal is snowed under'with cost and
production schedules and bulging files
0 £ applications. Leather yoods under the
ban are portinante wardrobe trunks,
‘-el bags, over-
bags, attache cases, ladies hand-
bags, wallets, compactums and braces,
Soft goods include woollen, cotton,
rayon, silk, art silk, linen and synthetic
lines, underwear of all kinds, and knitted
fabrics. All these are subject to a “pro-
hibition of sale” notice. This doesn’t
mea n a complete standstill, but interrup-
tions and hold-ups, which don’t help to
overcome m.L.’s many shortages. Leather
manufacturers exoected the Price Tribunal
w °“ ld a 7* f r ce f marlc '
«P, £or P«>®. bu ‘ pnce-fixing has been
S OLn B ahead on an austerity margin or
5 p.c., which has stirred firms to indigna-
tion. They say there’s a “fashion risk”
in many leather goods, particularly hand-
bags, and are kicking against the orders,
This prolongs the standstill in distribution
channels. Other manufacturers and
traders are not much happier about con-
trol. The tribunal is losing friends and
raising a storm of hostility which must
make it the most unpopular body in
Maoriland,


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Old Bill had an ancient car,
the bodywork of which was kept together
mostly by No. 8 fencing wire and strips
of rawhide. He did his own running
repairs, and he was very proud of the
way the engine “ticked over.” Making for
the township in it one day with Barker,
his neighbor, they came upon Wilson, who
had only been in the district a few weeks.
Old Bill didn’t know Wilson, but Barker
had met him once or twice. Wilson was
going into the township on foot, he be-
ing as yet earless and his horse lame,
and Bill picked him up. Conversation
drifted from one subject to another,
finally swinging to ploughs. It was then
that Wilson opened up. He told of the
condition of his share when he’d got it
back from the blacksmith, and went on
to call the hammer-swinger every-
thing, with particular reference to the
quarter-wit who had sired such a botcher.
Barker, unable to let Wilson know vocally
that the cove he was abusing was old
Bill’s son, gave him the office to shut up
by knocking him repeatedly on the shin.
It finally dawning on him that he’d pulled
a boner, Wilson sought to cover up his
confusion by darting to another subject.
He cocked an ear and said: “Y’r engine’s
developin’ a bit of a knock, isn’t it, Mr,
Carberry?” Old Bill jerked the car to
a stop, glared at Wilson and said: “Y*
can git out an’ walk from here, mister.
An’ next time don’t get abusin’ the best
engine in the districkl”
* * * *
“Notaden”: The attraction of old-
style roof spaces for possums (B. 9/4/’47)
is shared by rats, and the result is some-
times disastrous for both. Carpet snakes
also realise the advantages of privacy,
security and comfort, particularly for
the winter drowse, and they wake up
very hungry when spring comes again.
For five years, Billo, nine or more beauti-
fully patterned feet of him, has been an
upstair lodger with us and we’ve never
been troubled with rats since his arrival,
at least to any greater extent than an
occasional swish above the ceiling and
a few smotKred squeaks. Senseless
destruction in past days of possums and
the trees they fed on has made them rare,
but the only one that ever tried to share
Billo’s quarters provided a meal for him.
To make up for this, he has kept the place
completely free of the starling roof-pest
and also scared off for good a former
chronic visitor nuisance.
* * * *
“Kendon”: Big teams, is it (B.
25/6/ ’47)? “Donkey” Martin, who plied
between Port Augusta and Pimba in the
pre-Trans-line era, had seven or eight
hundred donks. A hundred or so went to
a team, and with two teams operating
and frequent changes necessary, he
needed them all. Those not actually
hauling followed the wagons, living on
the country. He didn’t bell them; in
that country they couldn’t stray out of
sight— not in one day’s march, anyway.
V * * If
“X.E.D.”; “There was an old-man
flood on the river,” related Pannikin
Charlie, “The Hogans were marooned
in their house on the other side, which
was in danger of bein’ washed away in
the risin’ water, Farley had a small boat,
an’ took ’em orf safely one by one till
the larst. With her aboard the craft
capsized an’ was washed away. Farley
swam ashore an’ Miss Hogan climbed
into the branches of a handy tree. Hogan
was nearly bustin’ in excitement. ‘Me
pore daughter,’ he moaned. ‘Ain’t there
a man here t’ save her? I promise him
I’ll give her in marriage t’ the man who
saves her.’ At that a burly stranger we
hadn’t noticed tears orf all but his
trousers an’ swims strongly t’ the tree,
grabs the sheila an’ tows her ashore.
Then, shakin’ the water from his eyes,
he takes a quick look at his burden,
glares sourly at Hogan an’ hurries orf
across the paddick. Hogan was all f’r
some of us goin’ after him, thinkin’ the
rescuer was bashful, but we had t’ see
about gettin’ some o’ the milkers to high
ground.”
* * * *
“Bamekaw”: Can’t agree with “Lae-
titia” (B. 2/7/’47) that Mabuiag Island
was a sanatorium for t.b.-stricken natives
in Torres Strait. Dugong are no more
numerous there than around other parts.
Nor, despite examples like Mauru Lifu,
is obesity common ; after 60, a ripe old
age for them, men, naturally spare, be-
come shrunken dodderers, and women
wizened crones. Dugong meat is a
regular part of T.S.I. diet, as every island
gets its fair share of catches, yet the
putting-on of flesh, where it does occur,
comes to those who work as house-boys,
etc., or become affluent enough to live
on “white-man tucker” such as milled
flour, mainly starchy. Dugong oil is
very easily rendered, and in cooking most
of it escapes from the original flesh. If
“Laetitia” has ever tried dugong meal
roasted, or prepared native fashion, part-
scorched, part-smoked, he won’t partake
of enough oil to lubricate a bicycle for
"You'll have to move your residence — you're on the rocket-range site.”
a jaunt along Thursday Island’s main
street. So little of the beneficial oil do
the natives get from their dugong feasts
that officialdom has found it expedient to
teach them to render it down, buy it from
them and distribute it back bottled to
be taken medicinally.,
* * ♦ *
“Zake”: Sheep have raised good crops
of curses for their brainlessness, but in
the general condemnation of the woolly
one has everyone forgotten Strawb.? Try
to coax a cow for the first time into a
bail and it will assiduously explore every
possible crack except the one you want
it to fill. If Strawb, is making for a
waterhole for a drink it’s a monte that,
if the rest of its circumference is hard
mud, she’ll pick the only few yards that
are a quagmire. If, weak, she gets
bogged and has to be lifted out by a
gang it’s odds on she’ll bend her pins up
beneath her and will conveniently forget
what use they’re for when she’s put down
again. Perhaps the most maddening lurk
she has is to watch with stolid apathy all
futile attempts to get her back on her
legs when she’s off color, and then when
her helpers knock off for a gasper to
get up without the slightest trouble.
♦ * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I’ve experienced
most of the physical discomforts of life
—starvation, fatigue, thirst, excessive heat
and cold. Starvation is painful for a
few days; then a numbness sets in.
Thirst is worse, until the delirious stage
is reached. I’m convinced that thereafter
the suffering is lessened. Fatigue— not
simply tiredness, but weariness of mind
and body, physical strength gone, nerves
used up, every inch a mile and every
ounce a ton, and only a damnable sense
of duty or a cursed willpower driving you
on —will reduce men to sobbing wrecks,
whose recovery will depend on how far
the process is continued. There’s a line
of fatigue beyond which it is impossible
to venture and return wholly sane. But
the process of freezing holds no stage of
alleviation of pain. Cold drives right
into blood, muscle and bone, and when
you’re chilled to the marrow- -no idle
phrase—there’s still your soul to freeze.
Horrible must have been the sufferings
of the ill-clad victims of Hitlermania,
who held the eastern front while the
acclimatised Russian hordes hurled British
ammunition from the protection of
American clothing. I’ve known cold, but
I’ve never picked up a rifle and left the
skin off my hands sticking to its steel,
* * * ♦
“Blime”: Tell “Mickey” (B. 18/6/’47)
that the place we use picked mounts and
stockwhips on cattle is in the E. Gipps-
land (Vic.) Alps country. Bogong Here-
fords aren’t brought in on a moke and
a prayer, nor, in country where a beast
may not be sighted again for many
weeks, can one afford a breakaway.
Only riders used to the locality are any
good on the job, and one would as soon
think of going without a hack as with-
out a stockwhip. Whether it is mustering,
cutting out or droving, the leather thong
is the weapon, and beasts aren’t coaxed,
they’re ordered. In a bunch brought
down a while back was a cow that per-
sistently charged everyone in sight. The
horses seemed to know her, and stepped
warily, but the droving dogs soon became
half-hearted and suspicious, their failure
to recognise the bad ’un being under-
standable in a mob of some hundred one-
age bailies. With a whoop, Bailey
claimed the nuisance. She was met with
stinging flicks round the muzzle; then,
when he’d turned her, the stockman
energetically carved patterns on rump
and flank till that half-mad and slobber-
ing beast gladly took refuge in the mob.
After about half a dozen doses, we had
no further attacks. Without a whip, how
on earth could a bloke control a break-
away or train a beast?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The mixed train from
Narromine to Parkes (N.S.W.) crawled
to a shuddering stop, backed on to itself,
kicked twice and subsided. I asked Mat
where we where. “This side says ‘Us6
Rexona’ ” —he crossed the carriage—
“an’ this side says ‘Tomingley West’,” he
replied. We brooded while the train crew
held a debate with a whiskered bloke in
a sulky. Mat’s patience wore out and
he stuck his head out and yelled, “Hey,
if you blokes want a hand to start the
ruddy thing there’s a couple of us here! ”
The guard looked back at us, but that
was all. What seemed hours later the
train got going and presently .it seeped
into Peak Hill. Mat was on the platform
and running to the S.M.’s office before
it stopped. “Just thought I’d tell y’ the
Narromine train’ll be here shortly,” he
said. “But don’t bustle, don’t bustle.
The engine’s just outside; it’ll be an-
other hour before the guard’s van gets
hfere.” The S.M. lifted a weary face.
“You on board?” “Yairs.” “Well, you
got a helluva lot t’ growl about. I’ve had
t’ sit here all day waitin’ for the ruddy
thing.”
• • • •
“Esk D.”: The quartpot yielded little
in the way of riches to George, but he
eventually came on a patch of alluvial
wash that he deemed fit for sluicing.
Trouble was that the creek flowed in a
rocky gorge well below the gully, he was
on, and he had to cut a race from a mile
further up. This he began during winler,
when the creek roared with rapids and
waterfalls; but by midsummer, when the
race was completed, a bushfire having
swept the catchment, there was no more
than a trickle of water. George sat back
to await the rains. They came, as only
rain after bushfires can. Clouds banked
up in a clear sky to the accompaniment
of growling thunder, the heavens spilt
and forked with vivid lightning and the
cloudburst boomed down the creek and
its gullies. From the door of his hut
George watched and heard the black
torrent rolling by, carrying with it logs
and huge boulders and a mass of gravel
The storm petered out by nightfall, and
George was down early next morning to
inspect his claim for working. The only
recognisable feature was a gnarled old
bluegum, piled up 10 feet with some of
the many tons of stones and gravel that
were banked in the gully. George had to
mine the lot or let it be. He chose the
latter. He now draws the old-age
pension.
* * * «
“Bray Rock”; Despite all the horrified
uproar from “Sou’-west” (B. 2/7/’47), I
repeat that the yarn about Australian
freshwater catfish having poison glands
is a myth. As has been pointed out by
G. P. Whitley, H. K. Anderson and
other leading Australian ichthyologists,
the only poison occurring on their for-
midable spines is natural slime gathered
from their usually muddy haunts and
contaminated by decomposed animal-
culae. The hard, barbed spines drive this
foul stuff under the skin, and the result
certainly is painful for a time. But un-
less “S.-w.” is the victim of an allergy
his talk about “acute and prolonged
agony” lasting 24 hours and requiring
anaesthetics or “intense heat” to alleviate
it is sheer nonsense. I have been stung
twice by Tandanus tandanus, the same
species as the catfish of Westralian rivers,
and have seen quite a few others stung.
The pain is soon alleviated by hot fomen-
tations, and suppuration rarely follows.
Epsom salts, an ounce to the pint of hot
water as a foment, or the salt rubbed on
and into the punctures is particularly
effective.
* ♦ * *
“Old Camp”: I liked that yarn of
“Hoiseface’s” (B. 18/6/’47) about the
Cuttaburra tribe luring a police party out
into Sturt’s Great Stony Desert (Simp-
son’s Desert to you), and after leading
them from one dry waterhole to another
leaving them to perish. The particular
bit I admired was that about how the
nigs used to sneak awhy at night to fill
themselves up at another waterhole with
good water. Does “H’face” that
men perishing from thirst lie down at
night and fall into such a coma-like
slumber as to render them unaware of
the even temporary departure of their
black guides? Men running short of
water in the desert don’t lie down and
sleep, even though they may for a few
minutes lie down. They keep on and on
—and that particular party would have
kept those niggers walking too. Further,
I wquld like to be made acquainted with
an authentic instance of any Australian
police party venturing into such as the
Stony Desert merely in search of a black-
killer. Such ventures have been made to
recover the remains of perished whites,
but police authorities have been long
aware that sooner or later the black-
killer will return to his tribe—and then is
the time to nab him,
* * * He
“Gravelsnatcher”; But would a bat
know that it was venturing into a lighted
room (B. 2/7/47)? They’re quite blind,
and employ a direction- and distance-find-
ing equipment which surpasses radar.
Hence those enormous ears noted by
“B. A. Ker.” In flight, the bat has its
mouth continually open, emitting sounds,
inaudible to the human ear, which echo
back from any objects within range. The
sensitivity of this apparatus may be
gauged from the manner in which a bat
can skim an object without reducing
speed. But as for light, I doubt if the
animal is aware of the existence of an
element of which, apparently, it has no
nbed.
* ♦ * *
“Flip”: Bombina would very probably
cease to function as a township without
Bert Harriot. As town J.P. he keeps the
folk on the straight and narrow; as
owner of the general store and the
bakery he feeds them, and as grave-
digger he buries them. In this
branch of his work he has come to take
a pride. While excavating recently, pre-
occupied with a soft patch of soil, he
forgot even time. Finally satisfied with
the job on hand, Bert noticed that his
work had carried him a bit too deep to
get out unaided, and that nightfall was
coming on fast. He started shouting.
For a long time no one heard him ; then
Harry Barr, fresh from a “session” at
the tavern and making his nightly
short-cut through the headstones, heard
the voice from the deep. He cautiously
moved over to the cutting and asked the
perturbed one below “Wassamatta.”
Bert grabbed at the straw, roaring “Help
me out; I’m cold.” For a while Harry
stood on the brink in thought. Then he
correctly associated the voice from below
with the various sums of hard cash which
he had lost in fines for heavy gargling.
Harry turned away with a grin, calling
out as he weaved off into the night
“Like me to tuck y’ inter yT clay blanket
before 1 go?”
WHERE THE PINE-TREES GROW.
Again I climb that eminence
From where, in one blue line,
The distant ranges stoutly fence
The land that once was mine;
I have my world now at my feet.
The breeze about me brings
The music that is ever sweet —
The song the pine ridge sings.
Oh, deep I drink from the silver spring
Beside the greenest grass;
Where parrakeets to blossoms cling
And deer, as bold as brass,
Stand with the nose to tainted wind
And, throwing high the head,
Leave tree and root and earth behind
Like arrows swiftly sped.
Here I can see in fancy blest
The black duck fly the east^
White cockatoo with high-flung crest.
Wild bird and wilder beast;
Hear deep the harsh black cockatoo,
See cattle, wildest-bred,
A stallion, a red kangaroo,
A wedge-tail overhead.
Now all the vastness comes to me,
Blue ranges, row on row,
And through the pine-trees I can see
The river shine belovy;
Oh, wild and sweet the offering
Of now and long ago,
Of days beside the silver spring
There where the pine-trees grow.
victoria.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Mug”: Our isolated district supports
only one baker, so that when the sour
bread slips from bad to worse, barring
starvation, one’s only alternative to eating
it in silence is to eat it and roar. Fed up
with a life of complaints and appease-
ment, the driver of the bread bus re-
signed. The delivery job was handed on
to young Harold, who, chockful of con-
fidence, started the modern way.
At the second stop Mrs. Nagger met him
at the gate, gingerly felt her proffered
loaf, and opened fire on its weight, smell,
feel and anticipated taste. “What? Don’t
want it?” snapped Harold, throwing the
loaf back, and banging the door pre-
paratory to continuing on his way. “Of
course I do,” screamed the outraged lady.
“I’ll have to take it, but” “Well,
wotcher maggin’ erbout?” snorted
Harold. “I didn’t make the bread,
did I? An’ I ain’t got time t’ listen’
t’ no blasted ol’ hen cacklin’, neither.
Awright, y’ c’n have it this time, but in
fuchure keep y’r trap shut or y’ won’t
git none.” When young Harold comes
out of hospital he’ll probably deliver in
peace.
♦ * & ♦
“Old-timer”: Among the guests at the
local pub where we celebrated our foot-
ball victory was a doctor who, when
leaving about midnight, discovered old
Fred in blissful repose on a bench in the
backyard. “Some of your fellows come
and help me get him in,” said the doctor.
They laughed. “He’ll be right,” they said.
“He’s got a bottle of rum with him.” The
doctor frowned. “But there’s a heavy
frost; the man’ll gtt pneumonia.” “Look,
doc.,” he was assured. “It’s* no good
bringing him in—he’d only get up an’
go out again. He’ll be right.” The
doctor, very doubtful, left. Next morn-
ing he arrived at the pub. “I want to see
old Fred,” he said; “1 couldn’t rest for
wosry about him out in that cold.” Fred
was in the bar and the doc. eyed him
closely and asked a few questions. As
he left someone asked, “Did he catch
anything, doc?” “Only a thirst,” declared
the doctor, as he made disgustedly for
his car.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: In the islands we saw
tropical members of bird families well
known at home, two of the commonest
being the tiny grass-warbler (Cisti-
cala exilis ) and the big, floppy
pheasant - coucal. The little fellow
may be found fussing about swampy
patches right through to Asia. In the
spring he becomes wildly agitated, and
in moments of hysterical elation plays at
being a skylark; but the view from
“I told you! to keep off that clover blossom —you'll finish up with a
duodenal ulcer!"
40ft., or gravity or something, soon gets
the better of him and he comes hurtling
down to finish his song from a bracken
fern or a blade of grass. Possibly his
ego is inflated by his skill at nest-build-
ing ; he sews it, for he is our one repre-
tentative of the tailor-birds. The cou-
c a l—swamp pheasant to many—can
shine like burnished copper as his wings
catch our spring sun; but in the kunai
he looked, and probably was, lousy.
Wet, dark and bedraggled, he flew only
far enough to get out of your way, and
a more dejected-looking fowl it would
be hard to picture. Yet he is the only
bird I have seen kill a snake. We were
in a bus when a coucal dived on to
the dusty road and rose with the squirm-
ing reptile just in time to miss the mud-
guard. Brakes were jammed on and we
hurried back to see the wriggler being
battered to death on a hard track,
spotting us the bird rose und finished
its victim against a branch it was dead
within three minutes of capture. That
was in Central India, and the snake was
a krait. Anyone seen a similar perform-
ance here?
* * • ■
“Bray Rock”; The annual north-
ward migration of humpback whales is
again evoking lurid remarks from deep-
water fishermen whose lines they some-
times foul. Rather later than usual this
year, they are on their way to tropic
seas, where the 15ft. calves will be born
in shallow sheltered bays and thereafter
educated by mother in the arts of swim-
ming and diving, fed meanwhile from
her huge dugs with rich milk through
teats the size of cream cans. By Septem-
ber they will all be on the way back to
the Antarctic Ocean, there to grow fat
again on the kril, vast drifts of tiny sea-
organisms which they strain out in great
mouthfuls through their baleen sieves.
The younger set flirt scandalously on
the southward journey, dealing each
other love pats with their 14ft. fins that
can be heard for miles. These and other
amorous antics form the basis of ihost
of the swordfish-thresher yarns beloved
of mendacious mariners. The rest arise
from attacks by killer whales. A
thresher’s tail would have about .as much
effect on a 50ft. whale as would a dog-
whip on a hippopotamus. Humpies get
their name from their habit of hump-
ing their backs as they blow out their
short brush-like “spouts.”
* * • *
“R.H.P.”: “Notaden’s” cuckoo-lore
(B. 25/6/’47) is interesting, but I can’t
agree with his description of the call of
the pallid cuckoo as being “queer tune-
less upward-rising scales of semitones.”
To my mind the plaintive call of this
feathered gate-crasher, echoing through
lightly-timbered country on a spring
morning, is one of the most beautiful of
our bush sounds, or I so thought when I
was able to distinguish between a colora-
tura soprano’s gramophone record and
the triumphant cackling of a fowl. His
cousin the European cuckoo is no slouch
either, with his haunting double-tone call,
repeated quickly about eight times. That
is, if you like reed-music, as distinct from
shrill warbling.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Infuriating to Wes-
tralians is the tendency to reduce every
argument to terms of the effete eastern
States. If Victoria has a sapling that
dwarfs the tallest New South Wales tree,
that spar is the biggest in Australia. A
New South cabbage that defeats the
pride of Gippsland is the biggest in Aus-
tralia. Now comes “Double One” (B.
2/ 7/ ’47) with a couple of stars which
never set in southern Australia, that area
being defined as south of Sydney with
the assumption that it embraces all that s
worth while of the continent. Does
“Double One” realise what a small por-
tion of Australia is included in that
territory? Scarcely anything of Wes-
tralia, a spot of S.A. and parts of New
South and the Cabbage-patch. To find
south in that area—all told it’s hardly
one in which anyone could get lost
“Double One” recommends two stars,
Centauri and Achernar, of which not one
per cent, of the population have heard,
The Southern Cross is pointed out to
every Australian child as soon as it can
understand. At least, it is in W.A.,
which—didn’t you ever learn, “D. 0.”?
—is far bigger than N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria, S.A. and Tas. combined.
“The dinner-bell WOULD go just as I got me pick up!”
“Frank Mauri”: Four members of an
Eighth Divvy battalion were playing
poker in a Malaya jungle camp. An
hour earlier they had been listening to
a lecture on the district’s venomous
snakes. Dusty, with an eye on the sub-
stantial jackpot, arranged his cards,
Something touched his shoulder. He
looked round—straight into the wicked
eyes of a king-cobra trying to read his
hand. Dusty’s yell and dive for the
door broke up the game. It was the
b.s.m. who stuck a bayonet into the
14ft. of deviltry.
* * * *
“Bufo”: On a flat rock at the edge
of a wide pool in the creek I came
across a collection of feathers, mussel
shells and fish bones. Leading up to it
across the muddy bank were marks of
partly-webbed animal feet. It meant
that a water-rat, most remarkable of all
Australian non-marsupials, had taken
up its quarters in the neighborhood,
probably in the half-submerged hollow
log on the opposite bank. Long and
lithe, they are giants amongst rats,
measuring up to 20 inches from pointed
muzzle to tail-tip. The big bunch of
whiskers probably serves as an extra
sense-organ in the under-water gloom.
Powerful swimmers, I have seen bne tow
a full-grown bald coot to the feeding
place, after killing it with a single slash-
ing bite in the neck. Their, furred skins
are very beautiful—so much so that they
are on their way to extinction in States
where they are not protected. Certainly
they carry off an occasional chick or
duckling from riverside farms and are
sometimes a nuisance to fresh-water
set-net fishermen, but they deserve pro-
tection if only for their sinuous grace
and beauty in the water.
* * * *
“Zake”: Ants, black cockatoos, the
corn on the little toe, the ring around the
moon, the “screws,” the missus’s hair
starting to curl of its own accord, the
cattle suddenly becoming skittish, wild
swans overhead at night—these and other
alleged weather prognosticators were
scorned by a Stroud (N.S.W.) cocky I
knew. He pinned his faith to the piano
on which his daughter played. He
claimed—and it was borne out by the
testimony of neighbors—that the old iron-
frame German instrument would develop
a more taut and better tone up to 48
hours before the rain started to fall.
* * * «
“Betcha”: In the years when the
country received a flush of green feed in
the early spring, followed by a- dry spell
during summer, and feed shortage
through the winter months, the bunnies
bred regularly with the young grass, once
a year. Now, with inconsistent seasons,
anything is liable to happen in the Brer
family. A good autumn will bring a
fresh supply of young rabbits, a mild
winter cSntinue the production, and it is
not uncommon to hear trappers com-
plaining ot kittens and breeding does
right through the trapping season. Even
in summer, rains fallowed by mild
weather and fresh growth is excuse
Tnough to set these population en-
“usmsts building fresh nurseries for in-
mates that will in turn be rearing families
Jfew months later. Other creatures may
come md go in plagues and dearths, but
dogged persistence my last
ior wicc uuss y
go on y. t
“Herbert Dawson”: “The 0.D.” (B.
18/6/’47) is surely a bit exacting. The
swan produces at least three distinct
calls: the old.boy of the species, white
generally more resembling in ms
steamer’s siren, does in stacca
ances seem to get as near to honK noi
as a wild goose does. It large y P
on circumstances. Here on a
place, from where I write, there is a iarg
lagoon near the house inhabited y
swans and ducks. My first mgm.
bitterly frosty one, found me reluctantly
leaving the blankets to go to the aid o£
what seemed the small pup ot the place
howling from the cold. When I got out-
side I found the sound was unmistakably
the shrill fluting of swans, its being muted
by the walls of the building evidently
causing the trick of sound. Incidentally,
I was not the only mug fooled by a resi-
dent of that lagoon. The next day 1
spent a quarter of an hour watching a
swamp hawk (or swamp harrier) pursu-
ing a “dabchick,” or “diver.” The pur-
suer was doing a pretty good job, too,
wheeling and sweeping low over the
water and twisting like a snake in an
attempt to keep the little dodger from
surfacing to get air, and so tiring him
sufficiently to allow the taloned feet to
make a quick capture when the ex-
hausted mite would have to come up.
The pirate of the swamp, however,
spinning, darting and even somersault-
ing to dive at his surfacing prey, was
always met by a spurt of water from the
driving feet as the little bloke went down
again with another supply of hastily-
loaded fresh air in his lungs, and it was
eventually the hawk that called the
show off.
* * „ * ~ *
Gravelsnatcher : According to Ted,
who roamed the Westralian bushland be-
f°re axe an A automobile replaced observ-
ant hunters with irresponsible rifle shots,
the true racehorse goanna is a small chap,
SIX to nine inches long, usually located
Ol } rock outcrops, over which he moves
with the approximate speed of lightning,
The big fellows, up to four feet long, be-
long to a different class, and are attached
to a monicker that the old chap cant
recall. They re too small for bungarras,
those eight-feet, relics of prehistoric rep-
tiles, and really move—there’s nothing in
the bush, with the doubtful exception of
a flying doe, that can stay with them,
Pursued by greyhounds, they’ll race in
an undeviating course, eyes apparently
swivelled back on the enemy they’ve left
behind in a cloud of sand, and taking
whatever lies in their path. Ive seen
them often racing thus towards a big
gum. Without slackening speed they
deviate at right angles to take a perpen-
dicular course, stopping only at the top
of the tree to twist a long neck in all
directions to see what happened to their
pursuers. Surprised dozing, they are
momentarily lazy, and if caught by the
tail appear powerless, unable to turn on
the hand that holds them. Ted knows,
because he’s caught hundreds for the old
Chinese market-gardeners, from whom he
received four to five shillings each for
the luscious food. But he can’t recall
their name. Can anyone assist him?
* . , *
‘Salmon Gums : Ive watched bees at
work among flowers and, with difficulty,
jn their hives and Ive prised quite a
lot of secrets from the industrious m-
|| cts - I Still hazy on one point.
How do a?TcM
Pjetely. Ihe ceils are, as tar as 1 can
observe, set at a slight angle to the hon-
zon al so that a small amount of liquid
could be placed in each without overflow-
JOB- But each cell is so packed with
honey that the point of a pin forced
through the thin wax covering will bring
« oozing out Ive got two theories. The
cell may be filled from the one above ,t,
Much is then repaired ; or bees operating
in front of the cell may create a draught
strong enough to keep the honey in place
while other workers seal the cell. Any
other explanations?
HEARTBEAT
J never thought when the hoofbeats summoned
To stand at the rails and watch them •.
The high winds call, but there is no gladness,
The answering heartleap settles slow.
Out on the plain where the sun is rising
Hoof-cut grass to the wind is flung:
In the whistling manes new faces bending
Bear on their lips the songs I’ve sung.
The reaching rein, and the straining leather
Over the pound of a racer’s heart;
His rushing strength; and the lovely lightness
Of a mare who skims as the martins dart;
The gay young song of the lifting hoofbeats
That homes to my heart like a turning knife
Oh, you who know them and are not happy,
Why do you ask so much of life?
N.S.W.
AINSLIE ANDERSON.


ft
X
1
c
O
A
a
M
<S(e Tfott- TuyC
voet*. S crc&cA sAacbuxl"
Gem does away with afternoon stubble. One skin
level Gem shave keeps you clean all day and all
evening. Be kind to your face. Shave once and shave
clean with Gem. Buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID
5 O’CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
GEM
DOUBLE LIFE BLADES
fdf
ƒ
df
d
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
THE ONLY SELF-CONTAINED CHEMI-
CAL SANITARY SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BEEN IN CONTINTOI'S PRODFCTION
FOR THE PAST 19 YEARS' AND THE
ONLY SYSTEM THAT DOES NOT
REQUIRE EMPTYING.
Before making a purchase of any other
chemical closet the public is invited to
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Ptv., Ltd., the bona tides
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, and the
value of the Hygeia Guarantee com-
pared with any other guarantee.
THE HYGEIA GUARANTEE INCLUDES
SEVEN YEARS AGAINST CORROSION.
Do not be misled by specious statements. Buy
only that which has an unsullied reputation.
SANITARY CO PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge St., Sydney.
Est. 1927.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NJS.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Ooulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Uissol vena tors (QTand),
Woolworths Bldgs., Adelaide St.. Brisbane.
Victoria: Victorian I’reducers’ Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
678 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.),
81 Currie St., Adelaide. Cent. 7673.
Western Austtalia: R. P. Mclneiney & Co.,
Ltd., 441 Murray St. Perth. T
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launces-
WARNING!
HYG
ten nnd Hnhsirt
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Pests.
“Agric”: H. McL. Gordon, of the
C.S.I.R. McMaster Animal Health
Laboratory, Sydney, had attendances of
up to 70 at a series of field days in
Queensland. Dealing with control of
internal parasites generally, Gordon ad-
vised graziers to make themselves familiar
with the pests’ life-cycles, so that they
would know what their enemies were
doing at any particular time, and be
ready with effective action to prevent in-
festation. Not only adult worms but
also eggs and larvae on the ground had
to be attacked ; drenching attacked only
the adults in the sheep, and some kind
of rotational grazing must be practised
to control eggs and larvae,
A spell of three or four weeks is
sufficient to allow nature to kill the vast
majority of internal pests. Emphasising
the value of phenothiazine, Gordon said
it was highly effective against the three
more important parasites of sheep in
summer rainfall regions—the large
stomach worm, the black scour worm,
and the nodule worm. It does not, like
bluestone-nicotine and bluestone-arsenic
mixtures, depend for its efficiency on be-
ing swallowed into the fourth stomach,
and its cost is offset by its high efficiency ;
it is effective in every sheep. Gordon
wants a plan of control based on general
station management in relation to shear-
ing, lambing, etc., and on weather condi-
tions with a study of the grazing habits
of the sheep on any particular property.
Local overcrowding of pastures such
as in watercourses, around billabongs, or
along bore drains often results in heavy
contamination with worm eggs. Familiar
as many graziers are with conditions that
favor the parasites, far too few ever take
any action to correct them.
Wheat Stabilisation.
“C.S.”: In February this year W.A.
set up a Royal Commission to ext mine
Federal wheat legislation, to ascertain
what courses might be open to W.A.
both before and after termination of
Commonwealth control and including the
possibility of a W.A. pool either indepen-
dent of or part of a national stabilisation
scheme, to compare various proposed
and existing schemes and state the ad-
vantages or disadvantages of each, to
examine whether a State or Federal
marketing scheme should operate and
whether it should be linked with a general
scheme of stabilisation and to study
American schemes and see if they could
be adapted to Australia.
By May the W.A. Government had
the Commission’s findings and recom-
mendations, which must be nearly a
record far a Royal Commission. A
summary of the recommendations:
That W.A. is losing heavily through the
Federal policy of selling wheat for internal
use at prices well below overseas values—
the Commission refrained from mention-
ing the New Zealand deal —and that W.A.
invite Mr. Pollard, the Federal Minister
for Commerce, to raise the price of all
wheat sold in Australia to Bs. a bushel
f.o.r. bulk basis. That upon all sales other
than for flour a subsidy be granted to lift
the return to the pool to export parity as
determined from week to week, and that
prices of mill offals be raised by 50 p.c.
That W.A. have ready a Wheat Market-
ing Bill in “order to make timely prepara-
tion” for Federal abandonment of wheat
control, and invite other Slates to do the
same with the idea of establishing a joint
organisation for wheat marketing.
After a study and explanation of
stabilisation in U.SI.A., Canada and Aus-
“Does ole Dais need leg-ropin' or anything, Pa?"
tralia, together with the more or less
abortive international wheat agreements,
the Commission recommended stabilisa-
tion in Australia like this:
An equalisation trust fund to be created
with the money now in the Commonwealth
stabilisation fund—with wheat at an aver-
age all-round price of 10s. 2d. a bushel
under the present Commonwealth scheme
the fund could get £20,000.000 from one
good Australian crop—and similar wheat
tax be continued to build up a permanent
fund from which to equalise export prices;
after the coming crop the tax to be limited
to 2s. a bushel on export wheat.
The Commission suggests that a fund of
£30,000.000 would make an ample reserve,
sufficient to “cushion" the effect of a fall
in world parity to below ss. 2d., and points
out that since the question of individual .
equity—an inflammable question in the
present Scully-Pollard scheme —is involved,
pro rata payments could be made to in-
terested farmers when the fund exceeded
£30,000,000. This is what the Americans
call a “revolving fund,” and they use it in
the marketing of some land products. It
is, too, the basis of the debenture operations
of W.A. Co-operative Bulk Handling Co.,
Ltd.
If we must have wheat stabilisation —
and it wouldn’t be a bad idea if it could
be got out of political hands—the W.A.
Commission certainly offers a scheme
decidedly ahead of the present Common-
wealth one ; on the one question of the
farmer’s equity in his own wheat it
recognises a principle which the present
Commonwealth controllers of stabilisa-
tion have persistently side-stepped.
Care of the Cow.
“Prof’: The main thing is to keep the
teats clean and dry at all times. To this
end the teats and adjacent portions of
the udder must be washed with clean
water. Follow this by dipping each teat
into a pannikin of hyperchloride sterilizer
solution and immediately slip the milking
machines on. After milking rinse the
teats again and thoroughly dry. If milk
is allowed to dry on the teats they are
liable to crack and become sore.
Too great a pressure in milking
machines is often the cause of sore teats.
The pressure must never exceed the 141 b.
mark. Barbed-wire cuts or similar in-
juries are best left alone to heal
naturally, except to keep them clean and
dry. Teats tending to crack are best
rubbing in vaseline after each
Pendulous types of warts, often
found- on the teats of cows, can be cut
off with scissors and the area painted
with iodine. The orifice of a healthy teat
is clean and clearly defined, but if the
teat is neglected this opening becomes
eroded and scabby and the actual open-
ing obscured.
Rabbit Lore.
“Bluebell”: Eighteen months of total
war against bunny taught us two useful
lessons. One, it is unwise to feel around
inside a burrow with your hand until a
careful exploration has been made with
a stick. We dug out at various times a
brown snake, carpet snakes, wild cats,
possums, goannas, a jew lizard, wood
adders, porcupines, various kinds of
spiders and centipedes. With the exception
of the spiky gentleman they can all give
a nasty bite and even he can hand out
a painful jab. If the dogs say there’s
something inside rabbits’ fu f. on the end
of the exploratory stick gives the all
clear. Otherwise, beware. Two, if it’s
necessary to seal a hole overnight to keep
bunny inside, newspaper is 100 p.c. effec-
tive. Two or three thicknesses over the
opening, witfya little dirt to hold it down.
Evidently the rabbit doesn’t like the feel
and sound of it on its claws.
One evening, unable to finish a deep
lead when the dogs said “rabbits,” I
sealed with paper. Rain kept us away
next day, but when I dug out the re-
maining four feet on the second day,
there were two hefty rabbits waiting to
have their necks stretched.
Silo Construction. v
“Atlanta”: Difficulties occur mostly in
tower and circular pit types, as the trench
silo requires merely careful selection of
the site to prevent seepage, excavation
by plough and scoop and labor. State
Departments of Agriculture will supply
moulds and full instructions for fixing
the concrete in the gradually rising wall.
tThese moulds usually consist of eight in-
) de and eight outside sections about 3ft.
high.
Size of the silo can be determined by
the number of stock it is intended to
feed and the duration of the feeding
period. Each cow requires about 301 b.
of silage daily, and a ton of silage occu-
pies 51 to 56 cubic feet. If silage is well
tramped during filling operations only
small allowance need be made for subsi-
dence. The following table indicates ap.
proximate capacities of round silos in
tons;
Inside c U |j .
height. Inside diameter. silace tc
H. 10ft. • 12ft. 14ft. thK
20 28 40 55 55
21 29 42 58 5 J
22 31 45 61 55
23 33 47 64 55
24 35 50 68 54
25 36 52 71 54
26 38 56 76 53
27 40 58 78 53
28 42 61 83 52
29 44 63 86 52
30 46 67 91 5i
About 30 tons of materials is required
to build a tower silo of 80 tons capacity.
Foundations should be 2ft. wide and Iff
deep, and they must be solid or settling
will occur, causing cracks and damage
Soil for foundations should be dug to a
depth of about 3ft. Liberal greasing of
moulds before use will prevent slicking
and facilitate their removal.
Door frames must be,carefully fitted to
prevent mould in silage around the
2ft. 6in. squares. Felt or bagging packed
around the bevelled door frames will en-
sure a tight fit. Roof and ladder com-
plete the job. Fascias of 7in. x lin. and
large boards securely nailed to rafter
ends before roofing iron is put on will
make the silo weatherproof and give it a
finished appearance.
Circular pit silos can be either wholly
concrete lined or have a collar sft. 6in,
deep. To trim the wall a piece of timber
is placed across the cjiameter and kept in
position by pegs. Through this timber a
hole is bored to allow a length of piping
to be placed vertically in the centre of the
pit. A board equal in length to half the
diameter is then made to revolve round
the pipe, which is held plumb. The wall
may be trimmed perfectly true with a
sharp mattock.
After the wall has been trimmed and
the pit bottom levelled the inside moulds
are placed in position and filled with
concrete. The outside set of moulds will
not be needed until the top is reached,
when the concrete wall can be continued
to about 2jft. above ground-level. A
shed covering or a sliding roof large
enough to cover the pit is essential.
Fruit for Pigs.
“Mr.”: L. A. Downey, Vic. pig expert,
estimates that 1001 b. of wheat contains
72 food urfits against 12 units for 1001 b.
of apples, and points out that as pigs
aren’t equipped naturally to consume and
digest bulky foods as well as they can
manage concentrates such as grain, they
cannot eat enough fruit to enable them
to breed, milk and grow well. He recom-
mends, when pigs are receiving fruit in
any quantity, to feed to each pig from
weaning to baconer weight a daily ration
consisting of |gal. of separated milk or
ilb. of meat-meal, loz. of a mineral
mixture (four parts ground limestone and
one part salt) and 21b. of pollard pr
crushed wheat or barley. Then allow the
pigs as much fruit as they will eat.
Sows suckling litters need one to two
gallons of milk (or |lb. to lib. meat-
meal), 2oz. of the mineral mixture and


For Sale.
CLIMUINO TOMA 1 0, bears a whole yeai, yield*
2001 b. ; has 20ft. runners loaded with lan?*
red tomatoes Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
a.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
THE FINEST QUALITY SADDLE PROCURABLE
%
THE
DAVIDSON
& SMITH
SPECIAL
An exceptionally strong, Foley
Saddle, all over selected rough-out or
smooth-out kip leather. Built on specially-
made solid gullet steel plated tree narrow
waist, long flaps, reinforced knee pads
set high up on the flap, mounted with
l|in. Ring Surcingle, Hin, best quality
bevelled and numbered stirrup leathers,
improved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l4/14/- Complete.
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets, East Sydney.
Telephone; FA 5013.
fd
Sate in ms nanas...
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique oi thj A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged. that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con-
fidently al A.M.L. & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finane©
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1R68.)
4 Bligh Street. Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga. Moree. Henty and Hay.
f
DESTROY THESE PESTS
with OanogaS
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD,
MA 6311 • 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
■n< Sr** *•*"**
sCS' : • ' ■
m
*
*
£
: -v
S>
m'.i
m
m
yn
m\
MOTOR SPIRIT
a quality product of the
KEPTUKE OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
{ incorporated in n.s. w. >
Marketers of Quality Petroleum Products throughout Australia since
sip
AUSTRALIA
NCEv
'9
NW -9-24
~u nr more of cereals daily (according
to size of the sow and the number in
her litter) In Victoria fruit is worth
about V per case when used to reptuce
wheat costing 6s. a bushel.
Copper Deficiency.
“Perseverando”: This is a factor m
causing oranges to fall to the ground
, rioe in addition to red scale
when nearly ripe, mau . •
and under-nourishment, particularly in
D otash A monthly spray with wh.ie oil
keeps the scale in check, while wood ashes
dug^ in will supply the potash. To make
up copper deficiency, sprinkle a handful
of carbonate of copper round each tree
and rake in lightly. Do not wash m by
watering too liberally or the trees might
be poisoned; let the winter rams take
the green dust down to the roots gradu-
ally. To detect copper deficiency look
at the leaves for variegated foliage; you
can’t miss it if it is there.
Artificial Insemination.
“E.H.S.”: More than 100,000 artifici-
ally bred calves were born in 1945 in
Wisconsin, Minnesota and New York, and
it is estimated that within 20 years most
of the high producing cows in the U.S.
will never see the bull with which they
are mated. Artificial insemination greatly
speeds up breeding. Bulls with a proved
capacity for passing on to their offspring
a high standard of milk production are
rare. Such a bull can, in a lifetime of
natural breeding, stamp his characteris-
tics upon only a few hundred calves, but
he can father thousands artificially. The
practice is used most extensively with
dairy cattle, but it is developing in ail
animal breeding and even poultry.
Hints for the Farm.
“Prof”: Preserved fruit tins are in-
variably of a standard size (4in. diameter
and high), and make excellent mea-
sures. A tin holds just U pints, i of a
gallon or 1-40 of a bushel. This capacity
is equivalent to 21b. of water and most
liquids, Hlb. of wheat or rye, Hlb. of
barley, 11b. of oats or lib. of bran or
pollard. Filled to within one inch ’of
the top is a good approximation of one
pint of liquid.
“Bat”: For quick growth, beauty of
flowers and foliage, as well as a wind-
break, it would be hard to beat the
silky-oak, also a heavy producer of
honey. Seeds should be planted in
August or September; just pressed
firmly into the soil, covered for protec-
tion and kept damp. These trees do
well inland.
“Biro”: Fly strike can be checked for
six to eight weeks at a stretch by apply-
ing an emulsion of benzone hexa-
chloride. The wool should be saturated
with the emulsion, which is effective on
the polls of rams. Directions for mixing
the emulsion should be obtained when
buying the stuff.
“Old Blue”: When building batten
gates insert a heavy washer (bale wire is
most suitable) on bolts between the gate
ends on first and second battens. This
widens the heads sufficiently to allow the
locking-bar free travel without jamming.
“Metax”: When strutting a strainer
post, prop against the middle of the post
leaving the same number of wires above
as below. This is better than propping
near the top, as is usual. It stops the
tendency to move in the ground and re-
duces the inclination to lift when the soil
softens after heavy rain.
“Sarina”: Best time to burn grass in
C.Q. is in early spring, before the days
become too warm, and during cloudy,
calm weather. But delay burning until
after a storm if the year has been dry.
If there isn’t enough moisture in the top-
soil to cause an immediate spring of grass
after a fire, wind erosion of the exposed
soil may set in, especially on sparsely-
timbered flats,
“Bill C.”: Coppered or earthenware
vessels are most suitable for mixing
garden spray solutions since they are im-
mune Trom the corrosive effects of
chemicals. If suitable non-metal con-
tainers cannot be obtained, metal vessels
can be made do by tarring or pitching
them generously ; though tarred vessels
are good Only for holding cold mixtures.
“Big Billy”: While burning off rolled
scrub is essential in the preparation of
new ground, continued use of the fire-
stick on older land is to be deplored.
The most valuable asset on the farm is
the straw that it can produce, for not
only has straw considerable fodder value,
but it helps against erosion,
“Gip”: To hold the crosscut-saw firm
whilst sharpening the teeth with a file
put a saw cut in a log or the top of a
stump. Place the back of the’ saw in the
cut and wedge firmly with a chip of
wood.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Removing a tank tap
or outlet pipe for repair or replacement
without waste of water is a tricky little
job. Put into a sound, strong sugar-bag
enough sand or loose coarse dry earth to
fill about one-third of it. Tie the mouth
firmly around the end of a pole long
enough to reach the inner end of the tap
outlet from the manhole and leave a foot
or two to spare. Press the bag firmly
against the outlet from the inside and un-
screw the tap gradually. The water
pressure will force enough of the bag and
its contents into the socket, aided, if
necessary, by gentle manipulation ot the
pole, to keep it closed until the job is
finished.
“Billjim”: Losses of bees through
starvation in a dearth of eucalyptus
bloom may be averted by occasionally
examining the hives and feeding all
colonies short of stores. Colonies tempor-
arily transferred to fields of flowering
thistle or, in irrigation areas, to clover,
lucerne and other ground flora will gain
sufficient food to tide them over. Syrup
for feeding can be made by dissolving two
parts of sugar in one part of boiling
water and stirring until the sugar has dis-
solved. Use only when cool.
“Ben Acre”: When a small quantity of
seed is to be spread evenly over a con-
siderable area it is more easily done if
mixed with sand, fertiliser or loose earth.
Spread the sand on a solid surface and
sprinkle the seed over it. Then gather
sand and build into a cone, pouring on
to the top and allowing it to run down all
round. By building such a cone three
times a perfect mixture of sand and seed
is obtained.
“Bill C.”: If wallabies' destroy banana
suckers planted on newly-cleared land,
replant the area and dust the suckers
with lead arsenate. The poison is cheap,
won’t hurt the suckers, but will dis-
courage the wallabies permanently.
Sweet potatoes may be protected in
similar fashion, but it’s cheaper to spray
them with lead arsenate.
“Tryana”; With an estimated output
of between 22 and 23 million gallons,
S.A.’s vintage this year will easily beat
last year's record of 19,800,000 gallons.
Main contributing factor is the big ton-
nage of rain-damaged grapes diverted
from drying sheds to distilleries.


Telephone
Manufacturing
U.S.A. manufacturer of
telephone apparatus and
systems established more
than 50 years would pro-
vide engineering designs,
specifications, drawings,
manufacturing methods,
technical advice and
assistance under royalty
and fee basis to respon-
sible local manufacturer.
For further information
please write:
Robert R. Glenn
Evans Associates Co.
307 North Michigan Avenue
Chicago I, 111., U.S.A.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT SPECIALS.
Guitars from £5/5/-. Clarinets, £6/10/-.
Drum Outfits, Saxophones, Piano
Accordions, etc. Write for Lists.
Our Shop is as near as your Post Office.
CLEMENS MUSICAL SERVICE,
31 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
King Central 1808.
HUM
c~/ JyLie czH~otel
FHCING 0 PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely “round the comer"
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
Lit
<s>
yditep
*Phone BW 1361 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
DETAILS AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing*
Plans, Music, etc.
Bviti entirely In Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
ii i SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
&
r'l
SJ3
=1
\\
w \
\ \'
\ '
A
v J
W-
s'
\
V \
L\ % .
V N
N
\ .
&
G oes T)ew%
The thrill of ski-ing is commensurate with the soothing effect of a
glass of mellow Tintara Gold Label Port. This champion of public
favour is the ideal stimulant of warmth and energy after a brisk
afternoon’s sport or a day’s hard work. A regular glass of Tintara
Gold Label Port after meals aids digestion, and before retiring,
induces sound, restful sleep. Make your port always Tintara Gold
Label Port. Meet the champions: Adelaide Wine Show Cham-
pion Prizes Florfino Sherry; Old Castle Riesling; Fine Old
Liqueur Port. Sydney Royal Show Champion Prize Old
Liquer Port. Ist and 2nd Prize Old Brandy. Ist Prizes Vin-
tage Port; Export Port; Export Muscatel; Fine Old Liquer Port.
‘I often wonder what the vintners buy, one half so precious as the goods they sell”
Omar Khayyam.
TH37
MADE BY THOMAS HARDY AND SONS LIMITED, ADELAIDE, SYDNEY, MELbSuRNE
He stopped and stared at it... Some-
thing or other.
He pressed his cold hand hard against
his wet forehead. Trying. He was trying
all right. “It can’t be done” ...
No ; I know now. Harry! That’s
right; Harry. Stick to crickets. There
was a silver ingot in the grass.
“Did y’ lob any, mate?”
All the clocks stopped together. They
scuttled away out of his brain. He
looked over his shoulder and saw the
white concrete pavement. Further along
a girl in a white dress. Bare-headed.
Golden-headed. She was coming to-
wards him through the sunshine.
He took the bit of rag from his pocket
and rubbed it over his face and wet
mouth.
Harry had turned away and was walk-
ing towards the pub’s open doors. He
watched till Harry stepped in off the
pavement.
The girl passed him. As she went by
she looked at him, and looked quickly
away, as if what she saw frightened her.
He looked at his empty hands.
Furrowed brow, he tried to remember.
Oh, yes ; yes, of course ; that was it. He
was all right now.
He went back along up the river bank.
He had his chin in ; head straight on his
shoulders. • No stars on the flaps now.
No flaps. A brown shooting-jacket.
But everything under control. Think-
ing as he went along: “That’s where I
left them. Harry was right about the
crickets. That’d be big for a perch.”
Muttering now silently in his mind:
“It can’t be done. But I’ll do it. I’ll
show the yellow bastards. No, no ; that’s
all wrong. They’re not here. This is
here. This is all right. I’ll do it.”
He sat down beside the still-quivering
fish lying along on the grass ; brushed a
couple of black ants off its silver scales.
Over the river the cattle were mooching
by habit up to the dairy. A whipbird
began calling from beyond the willows.
He did not hear it as a whip. It was
a bird singing.
He gathered up his rod and basket and
made back towards the town. It was a
fine perch dangling in his hooked fingers,
once more in a tone of voice that was
rather peevish.
“All right! All right!” exclaimed the
rat with irritation. “I shall now tell you
how the old idiot killed himself.
“As you better than anyone else in
this whole district should know I have
little to learn about traps.”
“I fail entirely to see why I should,”
said the coroner in astonishment.
“Didn’t you try to catch me? Didn’t
you set traps, old-fashioned as well as
modern, in your pen-house,' your feed-
shed, your back-yard, your pantry and
even under your bed?” the rat demanded,
eyeing him coldly,
“Well, the fact is,” the coroner, now
apologetic, mumbled, “I wasn’t getting
any eggs and I thought. .. ”
“Never mind. No need to explain,”
the rat rejoined abruptly and with dis-
dain. “It’s getting late and I’m hungry.
“And now about that fool of a
Pinson.
* 4 J —I E imagined, you know, that he
*■ i was a born mechanic, but of all
the men afflicted by that delusion with
whom I have resided, he, as a messer, was
unequalled. His attempts even to use a
tin-opener resulted, more often than not,
in gashed hands, loss of temper and the
mucking-up of whatever the tin happened
to contain. Well, someone, a fiend I
should say, made a trap, in the expec-
tation, presumably, of catching animals
much larger and sillier than rats. It was
gigantic.
“In other respects, it, in every way,
resembled the smaller kind with which
we are all so familiar, procurable at any
cash-and-carry store for about fourpence
halfpenny.
“Merely to look at the spring in that
monstrosity was enough to make one
shudder, for it was so horribly powerful
that it could easily, if attached to a cata-
pult, have hurled a projectile several
miles.
“Pinson, in the hope, crass imbecile,
of killing or maiming me with it, bought
one, on time-payment of course, for he
was by no means well off, and that
ghastly means to an end, which was
murder, cost, I forget exactly how much,
but enough, at all events, to have kept me
in comfort for years.
“Knowing him so well I could almost
have predicted when he brought the
thing home and unwrapped it,” the rat
continued, “just what was likely to
happen.
“After nailing it to the floor and bait-
ing it, he managed, with the aid of a
wire-strainer fastened to the wardrobe,
to haul back and fix that appalling spring
in position.
“Touch the bait now, my friend,’l
heard him mutter, meaning me of course,
as he wiped the perspiration from his
brow, ‘and out of this world you go!’
1 ‘ l_[ E was near-sighted, by the way, as
1 1 you may possibly be aware, and
perhaps I should mention again, in case
you have forgotten it, he was called ‘Pin-
head’ at school because that longest and
skinniest of necks ended in a small round
object or knob which only a seagull,
I imagine, would have called a head.
“Well, by the flickering light of a
candle, for the room was draughty and
the night tempestuous, he was bending
over the trap and peering closely into it
whilst oiling the spring, when, fanned by
the draught, he sneezed. Whether, at
the same instant, he made some move-
ment that was clumsy and touched part
of the mechanism or not I really cannot
say, but, at all events, with a ‘click’ so
l6ud, so forceful that it not only terrified
mg but caused the death from shock, I
ascertained afterwards, of several rats
in the building who suffered from heart-
disease, the trap went off and out of this
world went Pinson.”
“That will be ninepence halfpenny,
please, and no coupons,” murmured the
coroner, who was also a storekeeper and
absent-minded, as he wrapped up the
cheese and handed it to the rat, which, as
silently as a grey shadow, thereupon
disappeared.


Relax O
as you FLY in HOURS to
NEW ZEALAND
The Skyway is a luxury highway when you FLY to
New Zealand.
Speed is combined with the comfort of a first-class
hotel—with the finest of food and steward service.
Go by Air —fly your Freight, too —by TASMAN.
Reservations for passengers and freight can be
made through any office or agent of Qantas
Empire Airways, principal agents in Aus-
tralia, any office of the Union Steam
Ship Company Ltd., and all
leading travel agencies
TASMAN
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
MECHANIC'S BAY, AUCKLAND, N.
A fine drink for a wintry night
WOLFE’S
dbumahjc
vt.%
m
1
ws
'n
%
'//jL
Vb
rv,
m
m
• .
°** T| u«o
'»*N,
'»OK
C. 6.
*****
««T|
*
l>U
* w
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
ITS RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Passengers on some of Sydney’s bus routes
are complaining about the increased price of
double-decker sandwiches.”
—Sydney "Sunday Sun."
But think of the jam you get!
4* 4* 4*
“The author discloses a degree of hanky-
panky among the spooks: ‘1 have no doubt
that an actual corporeal sex-mingling docs lake
place.’ ” —“ S.M.H.”
This spooky mingling, it is clear,
Won’t furnish victims for the devil.
For all the hanky-panky here
Is strictly oh the spirit-level.
B.
“If you’re at the pictures and you see some-
one weeping into a handkerchief it’s odds-on
it’s a person born in Cancer.”
—Astrology magazine.
And if you’re with a blonde in the
second back tow you can also bet there’ll
be a few crabs in the back seats spying
on you.
4* 4* 4*
“Airships five miles long will eventually be
provided both at Mallala and Woomera.”
—Melbourne "Age."
Inflated presumably with hot air from
Canberra.
“For sale: Large maple cot. Football boots,
size 9.” — “Clarion,’' Willoughby (N .5 . W .).
Owner evidently got too big for them.
4. -2- * *
“N.S.W. Premier presented with 40-hour
clock.” — News item.
Presumably the hands don’t work,
4. 4. .4.
‘‘Lunching with a corset manufacturer is an
eye-opener.”— Sydney “D.T.”
Even though his conversation is en-
tirely formal.
*b •**,.’*■ , , .
“Embroidery or smoking, childrens frocks,
homework. Apply with sample.”
—Suburban paper.
Bring the ma kings with you.
4. 4. 4. 4.
“The Battle of the Knee is being fought in
America ."—Fashion note.
Even some King’s Cross fairies object
when motorists mistake their knee lor a
gear-lever. +
Lost, white rogue paper.
. , ,/*•
Loser has a cheek expecting to get this
back.
Passing Judgment.
“Mr. Justice Croome-Johnson, at the Birming-
bam Assizes, laid down the principle of equality
of sexes by sentencing a man and woman to
18 months each.” — Sydney “ D.T .”
A wise and upright Judge no doubt,
But verse and chapter not without ; *
For long before he heard his case
There was a Fall — a fall from grace ;
And what befell his erring madam
Descended iuvt n<c hard nn Adam
uescenaea just as hat a on Aaam.
And so with other sorts of crime;
In fact, it happens every time
Upon some unsuspecting wretch
A sentence longer than the stretch
He’d get for larceny or arson
Is passed with unction by the parson.
P. M. LUSK.
Hackneyed Excuse.
“In Joplin (Montana) cops spotted a horse
and rider wandering erratically down the street,
quickly jugged the rider, despite his indignant
claims that he was perfectly sober—the horse
was drunk.” — Sydney "Sunday Telegraph."
What meaner form of cowardice
Could one conceive than this device
Of saddling on a poor dumb brute
A charge he cannot well refute,
And whose black falsity, if fate
Could let him speak, he’d demonstrate 7
For he could prove beyond denial
In any fair and open trial
That it was wrong beyond all thinking
To charge him with excessive drinking
For, though he often took a bit,
He never yet had swallowed it.
D. H. E.
Too Good.
J} , exp [ orer f oun d a l an d
.”, .
A s lovely as a dream.
Gay flowers grew on every hand,
There flowed a limpid stream.
A mountain reared its dark-blue head
Against an azure sky,
And brilliant birds of gold and red
Went brightly winging by.
I 'he great explorer’s joy was gone.
He muttered, in a fret,
“Confound the luck ! I’ve stumbled on
j Q some damned movie set."
Eve.
He Wants to Be Alone.
“What’s happened to Governor-General
McKell? His once publicly-conspicuous figure
is now so rarely seen that they’re calling him
The Recluse of Yarralumla and The Prisoner
of Zenda. He has one special interest at
Yarralumla: building up a library for his staff,
who must live there in comparative isolation.”
—Melbourne "Herald."
The Keeper of the Vice-King’s Books
kicked open the vice-regal study and
strode in, two tomes under his arm.
His Magnificence was at his desk, an
open book on heraldry beside him. On
a sheet of paper in front of him was
drawn the outline of a shield and crest,
with divers devices on them.
The first quarter dexter showed a citi-
zen, rampant and holding his nose, out-
side a field argent yclept Victoria Park.
In the first quarter sinister was a health
inspector, dormant, outside a row of
patched-roofed Redfern hovels, vert a
scocheon or and a sable portcullis. The
third quarter dexter depicted a fat,
happy-looking brewer, saltant before an
18-gallon keg potent, holding a device
marked “Billy’s Liquor Amendment
Bill.” In the fourth quarter sinister was
a bar (five deep) and an enormous stack
of bricks and tiles, gules, alongside a
row of luxury racing stables, party gold
and sable bendwise a fesse within a
border gorbony. Under the shield was
written the motto “Damn you, Jack;
I’m all right.”
“Still tryin’ to nut out that coat-of-
arms o’ yours, Billy,” remarked the K.
of the V.-K.’s 8., with that fine air of
socialistic equality that now pervaded
the once-ducal halls.
Vice-King Billy put down his pencil
with a sigh. “What is it now, Joe?” he
asked.
“A couple of important books just
arrived,” replied Joe. “They”
“Tell them I can’t see them. I won’t
see anyone," His Magnificence began
testily.
“But these ain’t them kind o’ books,
Billy,” protested Joe. “They’re ones y’
read—you know, for the Jib’ry. Here
they are.” And he tossed them on to
the table.
His Magnificence examined them with
“I have to report that the bill you sent me
has had a seizure !”
keen interest. “Splendid!” he said at
last. “Successful Punting Systems and
How to Use Friends and Influence
People. They wouldn’t interest me now,
of course. But the one on punters will
improve the cultural outlook of the
staff, and the other will be spiritually
uplifting for them. There’s no reason,
if they study it well, why any one of
them shouldn’t get where I’ve got —pro-
vided, of course, they fight well in Labor
Leagues and leave the constituency they
have represented for nearly thirty years
even a worse slum than when they
started. And —what was that?”
His Magnificence turned pale. “It isn’t
a visitor, is it? ’\ he went on anxiously.
“Square up, Billy, o’ course not. No
one can get past the gate guards, and
the barbed-wire an’ dogs’ll take care of
the rest o’ the place. Y’ know, Billy,
some o’ the boys think you ought to
show yourself a bit more. You know,
like that Montgomery bloke. After all,
what’si he got or done that you haven’t?
When you come to think of it, you’re
the Commander-in-Chief of all the ser-
vices. Monty’s on’y in charge o’ the
soldiers. If he can be made a big fuss
of they’d probably make a bigger one
of you. Why, I reckon if you was to
go down, the Flinders Way to the Civic
Centre standin’ up and wavin’ to your
lovin’ subjects you’d be nearly smothered
in ticker-tape an’ torn-up bills —particu-
larly torn-up bills, if they was ones you’d
passed down in Sydney. An’ you could
give ’em your famous two-finger salute,
and”
His Magnificence shuddered. “No. I
feel safer here.”
“But you can overdo it, Billy. They
reckon a swaggie cornin’ past here yester-
day from down the Cotter wanted to
know who was the hatter they reckon
lived in this joint. Now, what about
visitin’ some o’ your properties? You’re
still the Squire, you know. You’ll want
to find out how them trotters you’re
breedin’ are gettin’ along—
and that’s an important
national industry, ain’t it?”
His Magnificence seemed
to ponder. Then he looked
up. “You’re right, Joe,” he
said. “I will leave here. I’ll
go back into the world.
Get one of the secretaries
to have the Captain of the
Vice-King’s Flight call for
me tonight.”
At eight o’clock, by which
hour His Magnificence
shrewdly judged all Can-
berra would be a-bed, there
came a knock at the postern
gate. It was the Vice-King’s
one regret that there was
no drawbridge to let down.
Shortly an individual was
shown into a reception
room, and the bandage that
had been put on by the
guards at the outer gates
was removed.
As he stood blinking in the unaccus-
tomed light the Keeper of the Vice-King’s
Books happened to come in, spoke to
the newcomer, then went to seek Vice-
King Billy.
“Hey, Billy,” he said, “there’s some-
thin’ fishy here. There’s a bloke claim-
in’ to be the Captain of the Vice-King’s
Flight, but he ain’t in air-force uniform.
What’s the strong of it? Anyway, you
wouldn’t need to go by plane tonight,
would y’?”
“This is a different sort of flight, Joe,”
explained His Magnificence. “You see,
he can get me away without being seen.
I’ll be travelling to the Goulburn pro-
perty incognito.”
Joe gave him an admiring look. “Oh,
like them other blue bloods in Europe
get around!” he said. “Well, y’ better
get y’r false ziff on, he’s waitin’. An’
y’ better not stop more than about six
months —y’ never know when y* might
be wanted to sign somethin’.”
Bo.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£l4 0
6 12 6
8 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 mouths .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
8 4 0
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
This Freedom
When a nation’s laws make offences
of what is not morally wrong, that
nation is on the downgrade.
It is unlawful for a retail store-
keeper to buy farm butter unless he
surrenders coupons or goes through
some highly-involved procedure quite
out of proportion to the importance of
the transaction. Eggs and other forms
of farm produce are controlled in a
similar manner. Fruit-growers may not
even give their, fruit away. The people
who produce the goods have been de-
prived of ownership by boards, which
create artificial shortages and inflated
prices by cornering the market and
“feeding” the demand.
In the case of eggs the storekeeper is
made the unwilling (and unpaid) avenue
for extracting a fee of Id. per dozen
from all producers selling him eggs. This
money must be sent in to the Egg Board
to provide running expenses. Thus the
individual producer is saddled with the
costs of an unnatural and unnecessary
institution.
Wheat- and wool-growers are in the
same boat. They see their produce
being sold well below world parity or
else at a thumping profit. Both pro-
cedures are equally exasperating, as
profits, when made, are certain to be
dumped into some mysterious “fund,”
ostensibly for the benefit of the growers,
but of small satisfaction to any indi-
vidual.
Ordinary transactions in all these
things, and in land, houses, property,
motor vehicles and even materials for
clothing and shelter, become “offences”
under the new “laws.” It is impossible
for the plain citizen, or the man in the
street, or whatever you like to call this
amorphous individual, to live a natural
life without becoming a criminal. At
every turn he is beset with technical
offences, and mere inactivity is no de-
fence, for there are always forms which
must be filled in.
Individual effort is at a discount. No
man has faith in the future because the
signs are plain that it will be worse than
the present. In my own case I’ve had
20-odd yearn in this country, and I’d be
very reluctant to leave, but I’ve seen a
steady deterioration in all those ad-
vantages which brought me here as a
youngster in search of individual free-
dom.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
P.-0.-w. Camps
Those people who were not privileged
to spend part of their world travels as
guests of the Third Reich (B. 25/6/’47)
in its winter paradise, the Tyrol, cer-
tainly missed something. My first of four
European winters was spent, with 99
others, in three of its mountain camps,
and for the remainder of the war we were
easily distinguished from all other p.-0.-w.
by our rosy cheeks and deep chests, the
result of breathing only the purest moun-
tain air. Our German hosts saw to it
that we got plenty of it by making us
carry steel equipment and cables on our
backs oyer mountains that would make
a mule shy.
Lest we should be tempted to remove
bars from windows and padlocks from
doors and risk infection by venturing out
into the winter’s night, our hosts re-
moved our trousers and the remains of
our boots, locking them in an earthera-
floored washroom each night. It was
rumored that this was to prevent us
escaping in our shirts to Switzerland.
The boots were in a handy position for
breaking the ice in the washbowls at
6 a.m. with the temperature at 32deg.
below zero. Centigrade. You’ve no idea
how invigorating it is to wash in iced
water, even after a dozen other chaps
have preceded you in the bowl.
With rustic simplicity, an all-purpose
latrine trench was provided in our billet
for use at all times. It was conveniently
situated at two or three paces from my
bunk, and I felt that our hosts were
never given their due credit for this piece
of consideration —he is bad indeed with
dysentery who cannot walk two or three
paces. There were lice and rats to con-
tend with, but you get those in even the
best prison circles. 1 remember only once
losing my bread ration to a rat, which
had entered the billet via the all-purpose
latrine.
The food generally had body in it. Lots
of bodies in fact, invariably retaining their
entity despite the boiling of the red
cabbage and turnips. So skilled were the
cooks in the art of kitchen camouflage
that the rissoles they occasionally pro-
vided were spiced almost enough to lose
the smell of rank horseflesh that went
into their construction.
Apart from dysentery, beriberi, derma-
titis and abscesses, the camps were free
of scourges. I often dwell wistfully upon
that first Tyrolean winter. So many
foolish things remind me of its comforts
and delights—things like earache, chil-
blains and rheumatism.— Woody (Q.).
Why Not on Points?
I, with 1300 other applicants, received
from the Land Board office at Wagga
(N.S.W.) a letter commencing “Your
application was admitted to the ballot to
determine the priority of conflicting
applications.” Then followed the names
of the lucky men who, by the turn of a
barrel, became the occupiers and virtual
owners of a choice block of land.
Surely a man, 34 years old, with six
years’ service—three overseas —10 years’
farming experience and four dependants
has a priority conflicting with that of, say,
a single man of 24, with one year’s service
and eight years’ farming experience. Yet,
to determine the priority of these two
cases, the aid of a barrel is sought.
What is wrong with the points system
to decide such things?—Tangan (N.S.W.).
Nice and Friendly
I’ll say this for Mr. Chifley’s system—
it makes for politeness.
I went to the Melbourne taxation office
to pay my assessment, and the attention
I received beggared description. In the
bad old days I got none whatever,
and queues were a mile long. This
time I sat on a bench and was promptly
besieged by hordes of officials with
gracious manners asking me whether they
could be of service to me. A courteous
young man attended to my inquiries, and
to solve a knotty problem called in the
assistance of an elderly colleague, whose
adamant refusal to grant any concessions
was clothed in so much velvet that I
almost felt as if I had been given some-
thing instead -of having something taken
from me.
When I arrived at the pay window to
present my cheque I observed that the
people ahead of me were being handed
out £lO notes, and I momentarily thought
that Chif. had got a bad conscience and
was giving us all a bonus. But no ; Chif,
took the lot. All I got was a stamped
receipt, but it was delivered to me with
a smile that would have melted the heart
of a stone Buddha.
However, now that I reflect upon it
there may be reasons for all this polite-
ness. One of them, perhaps, is that my
tax is 25 times what it was when I got
indifference and even coldness. My in-
come hasn’t changed, but my enlarged
contribution must help to keep an
enormous number of officials, most of
them as superfluous as .the Department
of Misinformation, and they have to be
given something to do, if it is only being
nice and friendly.
In the bad old days I wasn’t represented
abroad except, perhaps, by a British
consul, but now I employ a Minister in
Moscow, another in Washington and
a host of embryo Ministers in other
capitals. I pay them salaries commen-
surate with their importance, and supply
them with palatial quarters and staffs of
advisers in economics and other subjects.
I also support a school at Canberra
where numbers of young men and women
are trained up in the diplomatic business,
a cardinal principle of which is politeness.
I know some of these diplomatic people
—they are all nice young things with
degrees and university educations, and I
feel reasonably sure that when they are
accredited to a foreign country they will
do nothing to disgrace me. They will
know exactly what to do when they have
to place three Generals of equal rank at
a diplomatic dinner, and they won’t hurt
anybody’s feelings or cause an interna-
tional situation.
Getting on for six hundred thousand
Government and “semi-Government”
employees! No wonder everyone is being
polite.— Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Men’s Clothing
The war has been over for two years,
yet there is still a dearth of men’s cloth-
ing. Tailors who in 1946 were saying
“It’ll be a long time before things are
back to normal; four to ten months to
make you a suit,” are still chanting the
same tune. The pattern and texture of
most shirts indicate that the cloth
was originally intended for pyjamas.
Eighteen months ago the shirt people
were saying “It will be eighteen months
or two years before that brand is back
on the market again.” They are still
saying exactly the same thing.
As England could not export to us all
the cotton piece we needed, importers
and manufacturers here were given
licences to import cotton piece in almost
unrestricted quantities from the expen-
sive American market, and precious dol-
lars are still being paid out in that direc-
tion. Hundreds of thousands of yards of
cottons have recently been imported
from the U.S.A., but so far I haven’t
noticed any in shops for men. On
the other hand, there seems to be a
plentiful supply of it in women’s dress
materials, where it is fetching fancy
prices.
Some stores have been so overloaded
with women’s cotton and linen swim-
suits that they have been forced to hold
a sale and dispose of thousands at ridicu-
lous prices. Stocks of some traders are
so embarrassing that they are trying to
find export markets in the islands. Ex-
orbitantly-priced dresses and mannequin
displays are being imported freely from
France, America and England; but just
try to buy a couple of men’s collars!
V.N. (N.S.W.).
Child Delinquency
It can’t be assigned absolutely to any
single cause; but young folk arfc uncon-
sciously influenced by those with whom
they come into intimate contact. Where
the father and mother set a high standard
of behavior and show themselves resolute
to train their children to decent living,
juvenile delinquency is rare.
Positive moral teaching at school would
help many young people who lack it in
their homes. Ethical conduct is not
more natural than cleanliness.
A network of well-equipped clubs for
the young would be an effective deterrent
to juvenile delinquency. Such clubs
should provide training in handicrafts,
and opportunity for hobbies, gymnastics
and team gamesl Good libraries should
be part of the equipment, and they should
be staffed by men and women capable of
winning the confidence of youth.— Lyle
(N.S.W.).
I know two children from a respect-
able home. Boys of seven and nine, they
are given their breakfast and sent off to
school, usually about 7.30 a.m., so
they are without supervision for some
time. Home from school, they immedi-
ately disappear, their mother vaguely sup-
posing they are playing with their mates,
but taking little interest so long as the
boys are not upsetting the house or
trampling on the neat garden. The same
applies at week-ends, when the boys are
rarely at home.
The father is in a good position and
both parents are well-dressed and re-
spected, but it is a rare thing to see
them with their boys, who are rapidly
developing an utter lack of respect for
other people’s property and help them-
selves to whatever they can take. They
would not be classed as neglected. Yet
one wonders where they will end up if
not taken in hand.
These two children are not an isolated
example. They join forces with dozens
of others like themselves —children who
are allowed to roam freely while parents
“An' Watch y'r speed past Boolabong school—I nearly got booked
the other day!”
follow their own pursuits and pleasures.
I’ve seen the same thing in four towns,
little boys and girls finding their
own interests while parents go their way
unhampered by the presence of offspring.
Belatedly, many parents awake to the
fact that their children have gone astray
and blame everyone except themselves. —
Mark Time (Q.).
“Khasi R.” (B. 2/7/’47) would be inter-
ested in the action of a newly-appointed
Juvenile Court Judge in the town of
Phoenix, Arizona. Worried by the in-
crease in child delinquency, he sent out
all available police late one night to
bring in to Court every child under 16
found on the street or in a public place
unaccompanied by an adult.
By midnight 50 youngsters had been
rounded up. The Judge then sent out
his squad to collect their parents. Then
began interviews lasting until 4 a.m.,
the Judge wanting to know why the
parents permitted their children to be
out at such an hour. No further action
was taken, but parents were warned that
there would be more night sessions of
the Court and prosecutions.
Ten nights later there was another
round-up. One 12-year-old was the only
child found out alone. —R.E. N.
(N.S.W.).
Diverting Queensland Rivers
I can assure “Alpha” (B. 2/ 7/ ’47)
that I, too, have seen the Cooper’s Creek
and Wilson River country in the s.-w. of
Queensland. I have also been along the
ranges in Queensland’s coastal belt,
accompanied by a couple of U.S. Army
engineers who had worked on jobs like
Grand Coulee before the war. I give
their opinions of the feasibility of divert-
ing those coastal rivers.
It would be easy to put dams across
the upper reaches of rivers like the
Barron and to send the waters westward
through tunnels and channels. But so
little water would be diverted in that
way—and then only during a month or
two of the wet season —that evaporation
alone would dry it all up before it got
within coo-ee of the Thompson, Barcoo,
Cooper or Wilson.
At a much greater cost, these rivers
could be dammed lower down, where
the flow is much greater for four to six
months of the year. But to carry that
water under the ranges to the western
watershed would involve mile upon mile
of huge tunnels and open channels. Upon
arriving at the western side of the ranges,
another snag is struck in the fact that for
many miles all the creeks run through
porous sandstone which soaks up water
like a sponge and forms the intake for
the great artesian basin in Central Aus-
tralia. That would mean concreting the
beds of miles of every creek which flows
westward. Otherwise the water would
soak into the sandstone.
Those Americans didn’t guess—they
worked out everything on rainfall figures,
cusecs of river flows, distances to be
tunnelled and size of tunnels and chan-
nels. They hoped that it could be accom-
plished, because after the war they wanted
to come here and help us do the job.
They ended by dismissing it as hopeless.
To compare John Forrest’s plan for a
pipeline to Kalgoorlie with a scheme like
that is like comparing a suburban storm-
water drain with the digging of the
Panama Canal. What most people fail to
realise is that the water which floods the
channels of the s.-w. Queensland rivers
does not come from rains falling on the
western slopes of the Dividing Range,
Most of that water goes to replenish the
artesian basin through the intake beds of
sandstone. The s.-w. rivers are flooded
by heavy rainstorms falling on the plains
of western Queensland.
I’ve watched Queensland rivers pouring
their floods of water into the ocean all
the way from the N. S. Wales border to
the tip of Cape York, It is a pity that
it goes to waste. Something might be
done about using it where it now flows.
But don’t mention diverting those rivers
into the dry interior until somebody dis-
covers how to make it flow uphill
Bogaduck (S.A.).


T"hat R.S.L. Vote
Let me assure “Double Disc” (B.
9/7/’47) that I’m quite happy with
rnembership of the Air Force Associa-
tion, which body wisely binds all ex-
R.A.A.F. personnel in a common brother-
hood of service without attempting to
introduce distinctions based on geogra-
phical and other fortuitous circumstances.
All members of the R.A.A.F. were
volunteers from the first day that they
enlisted, unlike many ex-Second A.1.F.,
but aircrew with a record of “ops.” over
Europe don’t try to segregate themselves
from the ground staff which “sweated it
out” at Darwin. As a consequence the
organisation is a flourishing one, with no
likelihood of a schism developing.
The term “Active Service” is so inde-
finite that sub-branches of the R.S.L.
must of necessity treat the qualification
as “Returned to Australia” for member-
ship admission purposes. Service authori-
ties endorsed the discharges of people re-
turning to Australia as “eligible for the
Returned from Active Service Badge"
without reference to actual combat, and
this endorsement is accepted by most sub-
branches without any further grilling con-
cerning proximity to the enemy. If
“D.D.” is going to restrict League
membership on the basis of “contact or
near contact” he’ll whittle the League
down to a mere shadow of its former
self. Furthermore, a strict check would
reveal that, before the vote, the rale was
flouted by some sub-branches by the ad-
mission of servicemen who had never left
Australia
It is futile for “D.D.” to talk in terms
of what was the case before 1939, when
the vitality of the League in the future is
the important fact. If it were considered
desirable to preserve the alleged 95 per
cent, ex-fighting ratio he quoted, then he
and his friends should have kept the
organisation exclusively for ex-First
A.I.F. and allowed the ex-Second A.I.F.
to form its own association.
The case he mentions is a particularly
sad one, but I know of several ex-flying
instructors and infantrymen who spend
and will continue to spend long weeks in
hospital also, though they never left
Australia. There are also rows of wooden
crosses in country-town cemeteries to
emphasise the grim fact that all the
service was not rendered outside Aus-
tralia. — Barwon (N.S.W.).
The question having been decided by
ballot, isn’t it time those excluded thereby
from the R.S.L. should stop whip-
ping the cat (B. 25/6/’47)? They have
attempted to break a tradition, and have
been turned down. The rights and wrongs
of it could be argued interminably.
The League is essentially an association
of men who have fought, not of those
who would have been willing to fight but.
were prevented. The League was an
attempt, and a tolerably successful one, to
preserve in peace* that one good thing
that war offers to men —comradeship.
That comradeship is based on elements
which largely defy analysis. No man,
however worthy, can quite share it who
has not himself been tempered in the
fire —very few who have been so tem-
pered become utterly unworthy.
It is compounded of pride, self-respect
and respect for the other fellow, a sense
of an equality overriding all social and
moral differences, a purging of conceits
and a widening of vision, a common
memory of experiences and circumstances
such as can occur only in the field. You
may observe its binding force in action
any Anzac Day in any town or city,
when the smug-and-successful and the
down-and-outer meet on a basis of
equality questioned by neither.
That the letter of the regulations admits
to the League some men who have not
deserved the honor is a pity, that some
with the right qualifications are debarred
by that word “overseas” is a greater pity
—but at least these last arc not debarred
from sharing in that comradeship if they
have earned the right. That is wider than
tine League, which after all is merely a
fallible human organisation, whereas the
comradeship is spiritual. — Hist (N.S.W.).
The R.S.L. decision does not signify
any lack of sympathy for the fellow who
tried hard to get away. It simply means
that the League is for those who actually
took a risk and not for those who volun-
teered to take it It seems a logical
enough attitude. There are many volun-
teers for expeditions, rescues, and the
like, but it is only those who actually
take part who receive the credit.
A point which “Barwon” appears to
overlook is the fact that volunteers were
so scarce in the early years of the war
that unfit men were sent to the Middle
East, and depots were emptied to find
enough soldiers for the defence of Singa-
pore. It was when the introduction of
conscription was expected that many
made a virtue of necessity by joining the
A.I.F.
As for the soldier who spent most of
his active service in “clink,” but is never-
theless eligible for membership, “B.” may
rest assured that the of the
organisation take care of all such cases.
“B.” makes special mention of the risks
taken by instructors at air-training
schools, but weren’t civilians doing
equally dangerous work?
There’s no doubt that the result of the
ballot means the loss of thousands of
prospective members, but numbers are
not always an indication of strength. It’s
not the newspaper with the biggest sales
which wields the most influence. — West
Riding (Vic.).
I sympathise with “Barwon.” I, also,
crave membership of a society, and am
rendered ineligible by one of those petty
regulations of which “B.” complains.
He can’t join the Returned Soldiers’
League because he’s not a returned
soldier, and I am refused admission to
the Magicians’ Union because I am not
a magician. Petty and silly, but a fact.
“B.” and I have other things in
common. I am not a magician because
I have never applied myself to the study
of that art. He is not a returned soldier
because he didn’t go overseas.
Other clubs which are not open to me
are the Centenarians, the Strictly Female
Club and the Mothers’ Club. It cannot
be claimed that my inability to qualify
for membership of these societies is due
to any circumstances within my control.
But my applications are rejected.
The most ridiculous attitude was that
adopted by the secretary of the Cater-
pillars* Club.' This foolish man rejected
my claim solely because I have never
saved my life by leaping from a damaged
plane Is this my fault?— Kendon
(W.A.),
Rum
Reports of suspension of the rum issue
in the R.N. while in port and complaints
by R.A.N. ratings of unfair preference
to officers regarding liquor on board are
capable of misinterpretation. While con-
ceding the retention of rum on traditional
grounds, it is a fact that a high per-
centage t)f domestic trouble in the British
Navy is directly attributable to rum.
It is commonly known in naval circles
that the R.N. breakfast, from choice, con-
sists mainly of a “cough and a cigarette.”
At 11.50 a.m. a tot of 33 per cent, over-
proof rum is deposited in an empty
stomach, with the result that half the
ship’s' company are half-doped tor the
rest of the day, particularly in hot
climates. Scheming to get your “oppo’s”
tot, or persuading him, if T.T., to draw
his ration for you, has developed a re-
grettably high standard of chicanery on
the lower deck.
Officers’ liquor facilities, contrary to
lower-deck ideas of unbridled indul-
gences, are the most strictly policed in
a Service noted for discipline. Each
rank has a monthly wine allowance, ex-
ceeding of which calls for a report from
the commanding officer to the Admiral,
who inspects all ships’ wine books at
regular intervals. Punishment usually
takes the form of a month’s complete
stoppage of liquor. No liquor whatever
is allowed to be taken from the ship for
any purpose. And it is an unwritten
law that no executive officer touches a
drop from the time the ship slips until she
returns to harbor.
The extension of liquor privileges to
the men would entail endless trouble,
particularly among the younger, less re-
sponsible elements, plus a dangerous
lowering of efficiency. I’ve been officer
of the day of a warship which put into
a northern port for four hours. Leave
was granted and by the time the ship
sailed 10 ratings had been carried below
incapable of performing their duties.
Some were important men, others not,
but all had their watches kept by dis-
gruntled messmates.
I’ve known both lower deck and
quarter-deck, and it is the considered
opinion of most staid hands that wet can-
teens on board seagoing ships would be
inimical to both operational efficiency and
the ultimate comfort and harmony of
the mess-decks. — Macnell (R.A.N.).
Permanent Army
I agree with “Footslogger” (B.
18/6/’47) about the need of adequate
forces and compulsory training, but
there are dangers. Permanent armies in
peace-time with nothing definite to do
can degenerate into listless, lazy, red-
tape organisations unfit to meet the
emergence of new danger. The U.S.A.
had a permanent defence establishment
at Hawaii, and the “old soldiers” there
were caught napping. The French regu-
lar army didn’t put up much of a scrap.
It is possible for peace-time army
personnel to degenerate into playboys, to
lose all initiative in bureaucratic red tape
and easy living. There must be strong
and wise control right from the top.
Australia has only 7,500,000 people all
told. They must all be used in a con-
structive way, playing a real part in the
development of this young country. We
must have defence services, but they
should not be made an asylum for mis-
fits and rejects who cannot make their
way in other spheres of life. It is pos-
sible for a country to spend vast amounts
in materials and manpower at Manus
and have little there to meet an enemy
effectively. What about Singapore?
That boasted fortress was manned by
regulars and held to be impregnable,
but it didn’t stand for long and only
lulled us into a false sense of security.
Be prepared by all means —modern
war is complicated, men require long
and exact training, the enemy can strike
“Can this hurry-up stuff, mister. Make y'r sheila Wait like mine has to!"
quickly at the heart of a country, and it
is tragically useless to send half-trained
troops to meet him. All that is obvious,
but responsible Australians who have to
foot the bill need to be highly critical
and watchful lest we maintain a privi-
leged and flabby military force in poor
condition to meet attack.
“Footslogger” might be right about
the Army in war-time building better
character. My own opinion is that it
doesn’t develop character in the best
way, even in war-time, and I’ve had over
five years of it now.—R. M. L. (Japan).
Greece
Having spent the last two and a half
years in Greece I have developed a great
interest in that lovely and unhappy
country. I have read most of what has
been published about present conditions
there and the article in “Uncabled Addi-
tions” (B. 18/6/’47) is the best newspaper
review on the subject that I have seen.
It gives the fundamental truth —that, be-
cause of what the Communists did after
the 1944 civil war, “Communism in
Greece would have died by its own
hands” had it not been for the short-
sightedness of subsequent Right-wing
Governments.
The aged liberal leader, Sofoulis, told
me this on many occasions, and in his
short-lived liberal regime he tried to
make amends for the mistakes of his
predecessors, and to bring about unity.
But he had to work through a civil ser-
vice and an Army which had been purged
of nearly all liberal elements. Inciden-
tally, the few who had not been purged
by his predecessors were dealt with, even
more drastically, by his successors.
Sofoulis formed a Government when
things seemed to be at lowest ebb. A
few months later the British Govern-
ment insisted that elections should be
held, even though Sofoulis told them,
publicly and privately, that this meant
the end of liberalism because conditions
were such that whatever Government
was in power was sure to be defeated.
But the British Government was sure that
there was a world Swing to liberalism
and the election was held —with the result
foreseen by Sofoulis.
Since then things have gone from bad
to worse —Right Wing terror is pitted
against Left Wing terror and, as The
Bulletin article shows, there is another,
Spain. The Right Wing Government
still thinks that it can destroy all of its
opponents, and while it thinks that it is
unwilling to take any steps to bring
about national unity. Particularly, it is
not prepared to introduce any form of
local government, as suggested by the
British All-Party Parliamentary Mission,
or to give an amnesty to the many thou-
sands, including all but two of the trade-
union leaders, who are in exile on barren
islands, and who are given an allowance
of 500 drs. (6d.) per day for food.
Greece today is a police State. In
every large block of flats, in every hotel,
and in every street, there is a security
officer. As I was told by one of these
officers, they have copied the Gestapo
set-up which operated in Greece during
the occupation.
On many occasions I was with the
rebels in the hills —some of them were
old friends —and I know that these
people were not Communists originally.
But the Government’s policy of repres-
sion is making more Communists daily.
—Former A.I.F. Colonel (London).
Maternity Hospitals
I was very pleased and interested to
see that someone else is appalled at the
conditions of maternity hospitals in some
country towns (B. 18/6/47). In this
large N.S.W. town the hospital has no
private rooms for maternity cases and
all the patients are herded in one large
ward. The labor room is just across the
passage and every sound can be heard
by the other patients. It scares hell out
of young mothers waiting to have their
first baby.
Recently at this hospital a large sum
was spent on surgical equipment, some
of which will never be used. Yet for
simple things like jugs, basins and trolleys
for the maternity ward the staff have
asked in vain. When one nurse asked
for a few feet of hosepipe to save carry-
ing water in buckets, she was told that
it was unprocurable. The treatment is
adequate only through the superhuman
efforts of the nursing staff.
The block is so small that patients are
moved on to an unwarmed verandah—
no matter what the temperature —to make
room for new cases. Some have to be
sent home eight days after the birth of
the baby.
The nursery is most inadequate, being
apart from the main building, and nurses
have to stumble over uneven ground in
the dark at 5 a.m., carrying new-born
babies across to their mothers and hoping
that they won’t fall with their precious
bundles. No one takes the trouble to
have the ground levelled off.
Whenever conditions in the maternity
ward are mentioned to members of the
medical profession they agree with every-
thing said, look despondent, and with a
shrug of the shoulders say that a new
maternity block has been promised in five
years’ time! — Penelope (N.S.W.).
“Simple Simon” (B. 2/7/’47) objects
to the building of baby clinics when there
is still a housing shortage. He might
have added that a place for baby to be
bora is also essential —maternity hos-
pitals are crowded and some public
hospitals put patients on stretchers in
halls and passageways because there is
no room elsewhere.
Private hospitals are not so over-
crowded because they refuse to take more
cases than they can handle —Government
inspectors would be down on them at
once if they crowded patients as public
hospitals do.
The position is heart-breaking and puts
an unnecessary nervous and physical
strain on any woman trying to find
somewhere to have her child. Meanwhile
politicians prate about “Populate or
perish.”— Mark Time (Q.).
Not only are many maternity hos-
pitals inadequately equipped, but they
are understaffed and cannot provide
treatment which is often vitally neces-
sary. Most country hospitals make little
effort to ease the suffering of mothers
in labor and, as in our own local hos-
pital, one is considered extremely lucky
to get “a whiff” during the last few
moments. My own two recent experiences
were too grim for me to want to repeat
them. In the last one I would have been
better off if I’d remained at home.
I understand that in some leading
maternity hospitals all mothers are
drugged to some extent during the severe
stages of their labor. If this is safe and
possible, similar treatment should be
afforded to every mother, whatever her
position. Bringing children into this
very troubled world is a great worry
and responsibility, and the very least
women can expect is every aid that
medical science is able to devise.— Ex-
Nurse (Q.).


BRANCH OFFICES:
VICTORIA:
City Mutual Building,
459 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
TASMANIA:
City Mutual Building,
26 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart.
QUEENSLAND:
City Mutual Building,
307 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building,
113 King William St.,
Adelaide.
THE CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
INCORPORATED IN 1878
PRESENTS
A RECORD-BREAKING BALANCE SHEET
Extracts from the 68th Annual Report—Year Ended 31st December, 1946
RECORD NEW BUSINESS 8532 policies issued, assuring
£4,779,901 —an increase of 44 p.c. over the figures
for 1945.
RECORD PREMIUM INCOME amounted to £1,355,418 —an
increase of £137,714 over 1945.
RECORD ADDITION TO FUNDS amounted to £862,944.
COMMONWEALTH LOANS increased to £9,902,799,
or 65.5 p.c. of total Assets by the contribution of
£1,722,000 during the year.
GENERAL RESERVE Increased to £500,000 by the
addition of £lOO,OOO.
TOTAL ASSETS now exceed £15,000,000.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
PURELY MUTUAL
THE
A
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
LTD.
CNR. OF HUNTER, BLIGH & CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
C. A. RALPH, General Manager.
n li
(P
jjqSD 11
mi ob out® H
!l tm ItDCtD HD II
n
famnDDBD ii
I DnuDimoQ ii
WEST. AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building,
62 St. George’s Ter’ce,
Perth.
