

GREAT WESTERN Sparkling Wines
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 68 ™No. 3530
Wednesday, October 8, 1947
Price 6d*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
SLANE REMEMBERS ST. PATRICK, APOSTLE OF IRELAND
THESE embattled towers of Slane Castle overlooking the green
banks which slope down to the Boyne River are about seven
miles from the historic town of Drogheda. Dating from the begin-
ning of the seventeenth century, Slane Castle became the residence
of the Marquis of Conyngham, and was a famous place even in the
time of the fiery Hugo de Lacy, within whose “grant” it came.
Close by, on the Hill of Slane, stands a grove of ancient
yew trees, and in their shadow are the ruins of the Hermitage of
of St. Ere, whom St. Patrick consecrated first Bishop of Slane. On
this spot also are the remains of an abbey, consisting of a belfry
and tower, which forms one of the most picturesque parts about
Slane Castle. . f
The surrounding countryside is steeped with memories of
St. Patrick, for it was here that he first lighted the paschal fire,
conflicted with the Druids, and made his first remarkable con-
versions after he had come to Ireland.


SWM Wr«m<l
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining ‘how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “BnUetiss.**
Vy Name
Wp Address
«.B. 247 ..
AGE
JUVENILE AND ADVENTURE
TREACHERY AT 40 KNOTS
By P. G. Griggs. A sea story for boys
that will capture everyone’s imagination, 7/6
FOUR WINDS AND A FAMILY
By D. Cusack and F. James. Little girls
will love this book about themselves . . .
charmingly illustrated by Nan Knowles, 7/6
PERILOUS JOURNEY
By Marea Wolkowsky. Set in the days
of Good Queen Bess, every page is brimful
of swashbuckling adventure 7/6
At all booksellers. Write for free list.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS Pty.Ltd.
Central House, Little Regent St., Sydney.
The Red Page
CARDUS ON CARDUS.
On Neville Cardus’s writings on cricket,
as on everything else under the sun, there
are two opinions: that they are good,
and that they are bad; that they lift
sporting journalism into the category of
literature, and that they are too flowery.
Mr. Cardus himself, it is refreshing to
find in his Autobiography (Collins), holds
both opinions. On the credit side he
declares, in a remarkably generous tribute,
“One or two of these books will, I think,
last as long as The Complect Angler or
The Hambledon Men.” On the other
hand, after an appreciation of the sooth-
ing influence of Wilde and Pater in the
slums of Manchester in the ’nineties, Mr.
Cardus criticises his own “greenery-
yallery” period in terms with which his
warmest detractors would thoroughly
concur:—
I kept for a long time apart from the
crowds and the players. I wrote above the
heads of the average reader who- turns in
his newspaper for cricket reports. I wrote
above the head of the game itself. Hobbs
was not enough for me as Hobbs. I had
to see something aesthetic in him, or a
symbol of something, or as sculpture, with
clouds of glory about him (instead of grit
from the neighboring gasworks). I con-
cluded an article on Rhodes—the York-
shire Rhodes nothing to do with the
& gean, the Dorian Hexapolis and the
Colossus at Chares—in this extraordinary
way: “a cricketer with a past so full of
history’s noises that, to those of us who
have never known the game without its
Rhodes, the sound is like ‘the surge and
thunder of the Odyssey.’ ”
It would seem, judging by his reports
of the last Tests, that Mr. Cardus has
not emerged quite so freely from his
“greenery-yallery” period as he would
hope. The descriptions may have been
slightly less exotic ; the style less cluttered
with adjectives, similes and metaphors—
closer (as is the Autobiography ) to the
“plain English” so sensibly admired by
Hazlitt—-but it remained difficult to see
the cricket for the Cardus.
Mr. Cardus has a third opinion con-
cerning his cricket writing. Even if it is
as good, or nearly as good, as The Com-
pleat Angler, it is a nuisance:
To confess the truth I remain to this day
subject to recurrent fits of irritation when-
ever somebody praises my writings on
cricket, and then adds as though by an
afterthought a word of recognition of ray
music criticism 1 have already empha-
sised that as a subject for my pen cricket
never entered into my calculations in all
the years when I was trying to equip myself
as a writer Never have I regarded my
cricket as more than a means to an end;
that end being always music and the savor-
ing of life by a free and civilised mind,
as far as I could make mine free and
civilised.
The Autobiography is, in fact, Mr.
Cardus’s attempt to live down his reputa-
tion as a cricket writer. He is not likely
wholly to succeed; it would be difficult
to live down a book as good, or almost
as good, as The Compleat Angler. Yet
Mr. Cardus certainly shows himself in
this book a writer as distinct from a
cricket writer; and, certainly, too
especially in the admirable candor with
which he describes some Rabelaisian
scenes from his family life in his child-
hood —as a free and civilised mind.
The book shows the influence of a
greater and infinitely more human writer
than the aesthetes Wilde and Pater—
Charles Dickens. Judging by his attack
on some penetrating essays on Thackeray,
and Swift by V. S. Pritchett, Mr. Car-
dus’s love for the master may be nostalgic
rather than critical; yet in his own life
story, which has some resemblances to
Dickens’s in David Copperfield, he
manages, in one respect, to improve on
the novelist. For Dickens, who could not
have written his novels had he not known
the slums, the Marshalsea, the rich and
tumultuous life of the people in his child-
hood, was always inclined sentimentally
to pity himself for his early hardships.
Mr. Cardus refuses to: not denying that
he was sometimes lonely and miserable,
but not hesitating, either, to show himself
madly running and leaping along the
dingy streets in an ecstasy of joy at the
mere fact of being alive, and summing
up:~
I cannot for the life of me see how my
curious complex of temperament and talents,
qualities with terrible snags in them, could
have been better suited than by the prag-
matical education to which in God’s good
time they were submitted.
This is, typically and admirably, the
literary outlook on life ; and so, too, is
the credo with which the Autobiography
concludes:
I don’t bdidve in the contemporary idea
of taking the arts to the people; let them
seek and work for them.
For the Kingdom of Heaven is there;
it is in the arts that I have found the only
religion that is real and, once found, omni-
present. For years I was as dogmatic an
atheist as could be. It was when I under-
stood for the first time the later quartets
of Beethoven that 1 began to doubt my
rationalism. “One cannot speak justly of
the short idyllic movements of these later
quartets,” wrote Samuel Longford, “with-
out regarding them as elysian in their
nature, and removed by their ideality from
every contamination of the world.” “Re-
moved by their ideality from every con-
tamination of the world” —in this phrase
there is illumination for us in the darken-
ing corridors of existence. Without creative
urge and imagination man would be less
than the animals. There is for me no
accounting in terms of evolution or survival-
value for the sense of beauty, for laughter
and tears that come and go without
material prompting, for the ache after the
perfect form and the ineluctable vision.
When such passages as this afe to be
found it worth while reading the Auto-
biography simply for the pleasure of
agreeing with Mr. Cardus. There are, of
course, other attractions: a description of
a fantastic week-end with J. M. Barrie,
during which the playwright, like Tinker
Bell, was mostly invisible ; portraits of
Beecham, other musical or literary
celebrities, and some of the giants of
the Manchester “Guardian” ; a full ac-
count of the workings of that great news-
paper ; some excellent specimens of Mr,
Cardus’s dramatic criticism, including a
graceful and acute analysis of John
Drinkwater’s “Abraham Lincoln” and
some illuminating notes on “Hamlet” ;
much about music ; and much (it must be
said) about cricket.
A few things are missing from the
book. Photographs of the author and his
family from the early days in Man-
chester possibly unavailable would
have helped to complete the self-portrait
in which, as it is written, the youthful
Cardus is almost submerged in the
urbanity of the? elder’s style. It is a pity
that there is no chapter dealing with Mr.
Cardus’s experiences in Australia. And
one would like more of the literary and
dramatic criticisms, and more of the
Dickensian richness of the early chapters.
Still, taken as a whole, the Auto-
biography is an exceptionally enjoyable
book ; pleasant and witty in style, amus-
ing in its anecdotes, clear and sometimes
profound in its thought, mellow in tone.
It’s to be hoped that Mr. Cardus will
take a spell from writing cricket books
as good, or almost as good, as The Com-
pleat Angler, and turn his hand to a
second volume of reminiscences or a set
of essays on the arts.
The Old Bull and Bush.
Henry G. Lamond’s Brindle Royalist
(Angus and Robertson) is something more
than an animal story.
Animal stories are a special and limited
category. One, every now and again, is
pleasant. It is nice to know what a cow
thinks, or a wombat. But cows are not
deep thinkers; one cannot ruminate with
them too often.
Moreover, animals lead limited lives.
Even in Australia, for instance, no bull
has yet decided to nationalise the pastoral
industry. And so Henry Lamond’s bull,
though a sensitive and intelligent animal
according to its lights, inevitably is caught
in that familiar pattern in which an animal
eats, mates, has various harrowing ex-
periences caused by man, and at the
end—whether dingo, brumby, platypus
or, in English animal books, otter,chiff-
chaff or mole —bounds free and wild in its
native element.
Lamond has, too, a special disadvan-
tage in that his human characters are
blank. His central character is a non-
descript stockman named Tom whose life
is spent in an impassioned desire to> fling
himself upon Brindle Royalist and muti-
late the creature in a way that drives the
writer to uncontrollable outbursts of
reticence; and Tom, if an admirably
unsentimental creation, is hardly either
analysed or dramatised.
But the bushmen can be forgotten.
They serve well enough to make a story.
And Lamond’s special quality of nature-
observation shines out so clearly when
he is dealing with the cattle as well
as when he describes the wild birds or
animals. of his outback Queensland
station that it is hardly necessary to dis-
cuss his novel in the category of fiction
at all.
Brindle Royalist is not so much the
adventures of a bull as the natural history
of a Queensland station ; not an animal
book, but a nature book. The writer is
naturalist first, and novelist second. Be-
cause of Lamond’s special quality of
observation, Brindle Royalist’s adven-
tures are exceptionally convincing, and a
novelist’s craftsmanship has made a
success of weaving of the life of the
station, the wild creatures and the abori-
ginals into the central story. It is a
good animal book as such —but beyond
that a fascinating collection of nature
notes.
Lamond knows his country. When
he says it is hot, the heat blisters the
pages of his book ; when he says it rains,
grass springs up between your fingers.
He knows more about cattle than cattle
do. He has the close, intimate observation
of the true naturalist—eyes that notice,
for example, the water running along the
ant-pads when the first rains come or the
different methods of drinking used by
finches, corellas, galahs, plain turkeys,
pigeons, kangaroos, emus and dingoes.
And he has seen strange and beautiful
sights—an acre of pigeons (a small flock
by old-time standards, so he says) swoop-
ing to a waterhole to drink:
A khaki cloud came shooting in from
the east, firing straight at the setting sun,
shedding the metallic gleam of burnished
copper as the horizontal rays glinted from
their feathers. They came hissing, the
whistle of wings drowning the roar of the
eternal wind. They peeled miles casually
and laid them unconcernedly over their
shoulders as they raced the length of the
hole.
Suddenly, as one bird, they breasted up
to the wind and lowered a stratum; then,
wafted by fear of the unknown, they rose
again and raced in a body up and down
the length of the hole before lowering
again.
Then, suddenly, astonishingly, they
lowered on to the face of the water,
covering the whole with a khaki blanket.
For now their wings were cupped as they
sprawled on the water, and it must have
been the imprisoned air that floated their
half-submerged bodies.
The birds did not pause. They plunged
their bills into the water, drank in great
gulps, as a horse does, and surely none
had taken more than three long swallows
before all the wings hit the water at once
with a smack that sounded like a whip;
and, with dripping water pitting the hole
like rain, the birds rose as one and
banked steeply as, with a whistling of torn
wind, their wings took hold.
All the time as Lamond writes there is
ndt only this broad drama of nature in
remote places but that observant eye
which notices the detail of “the dripping
water pitting the hole like rain”; the ’
naturalist’s eye, the guarantee of authen-
ticity. There are descriptions of bright
flocks of budgerigars and finches; of
sandflies and mosquitoes and flies; of
snakes and centipedes and “ground-lice,
scaly and bug-like, moving slowly in
teeming millions—an acre or more of
earth would seem to be crawling from
one place to another”; of a mob of
wethers arriving at Coriki Tank
(years ago) with their legs splashed
yellow with the yolks of the pigeons’
eggs they had trampled in the
Mitchell grass on the plains; of 28
suicidal turkeys at a dried-up waterhole
allowing themselves to be rounded up with
the cattle that were being driven to safety
then flying back to the mud to die; of
abos communicating by telepathy
Lamond suggests that smoke signals are
made only to attract attention, the mess-
age being passed from mind to mind ; of
death by bone-pointing; of death from
thirst narrowly averted by the parra-
kylia plant; of the compulsion and joy
of going walkabout.
The whole book is, in short, a walk-
about in the fascinating Australia most
Australians have never seen. Henry
Lamond is really more interesting com-
pany than his bull, but there is also a
certain exhilaration in an occasional
gallopabout with Brindle Royalist.
Tolpuddle Martyrs.
In Man Is. Never Free (Australasian
Publishing Company), Thomas F. Meade
presents a substantial sandwich of fact
and fiction concerning the six Dorsetshire
farm laborers who, in the latter part of
1833, formed a trade-union at Tolpuddle,
and were sentenced to transportation to
Botany Bay for seven years by Judge
Williams, in March, 1834. The history,
for the most part, is irreproachable. The
book bristles with references, authorities,
quotations; and the history is the most
interesting part of the book.
The case was limelighted by the nature
of the times. The growing power of the
trade-unions in the big cities, the distress
of the farm laborers and the fears of the
Government —Melbourne in particular—
with memories of the French Revolution
as uneasy familiars. All this was accented
by the trial itself, and the manner of
the arrest, both of which had a full rich
flavor of legal and political skullduggery.
Membership of trade-unions, at that
time, was not illegal. The offence for
which the laborers were tried and con-
victed was an act of 1797, concerning
the administration of secret oaths, long
in disuse, of which the laborers were
unlikely to know anything. The offence,
it any, was imperfectly proved, the judg-
ment and arrests were hasty—cautions
were posted at Tolpuddle on February
22, the laborers were arrested on Febru-
ary 24~and the men, once convicted,
were hustled overseas with unusual
celerity.
The storm aroused was considerable.
there were public meetings, demonstra-
tions. Petitions were carried into Parlia-
ment, newspapers thundered. The
“Times” said:
With regard to three of the men at
feast, we join the trade-unions in pray-
ing for a relaxation of the punishment of
sev ?< n X ears ’ ex jle; but if the men have
really been tried for one offence and
punished for another... .there is, we appre-
hend, a cause for listening to the prayer of
tne trade-unions’ petition, and we would
concur with them in preferring to His
Majesty s Government. We cannot be far
out in calling yesterday’s procession an
assemblage of 29,000 men. Nothing, we
must say, could be more conspicuous than
peaceful and steady behavior of the
whole procession.
On reading this view, Melbourne is
pictured throwing the paper down:
j* amn . ? confound Walter,” he mut-
tered to himself. “Our alleged supporter
15 u,, s utmost to encourage the
rabble.”
Melbourne, indeed, may have said
something of the sort; to himself. It is
one of those adroit sandwiching jobs
with which the book abounds. But it is,
at leask more convincing than George
Loveless’s experiences on the prison
hulks.
Or rather, the experiences are not in
themselves unconvincing; it is George.
Presented plainly, on the evidence of what
was written about him and what he wrote
himself, the leader of the laborers would
have done well enough as an example
of a God-fearing, fairly literate laborer
with advanced ideas. But seen in the
bosom of his family, and with his friends,
and in prison he is not quite feasible.
He talks like a book; the author has a
valid explanation for not rendering his
conversation in dialect, which, he says,
would be untranslatable to the average
reader. But the general tenor of George’s
conversation is too indefatigably benevo-
lent. He is, in fact, something out of a
book.
The style of the author’s writing, when-
ever he strays beyond the bounds of plain
> historical narrative, has something to do
with this. H.M.S. York, for instance, is
not seen as a prison hulk that had once
been a man-o’-war but as a “floating
hell” which had once been a proud Ship
of the Line; and 14 years before her
guns’ “grim muzzles” had “belched des-
truction.”
To turn from this to O’Connell’s
speech in Parliament is to turn to another
kind of book; a Hansard. Yet it has
the intellectual interest of facts, and
eloquence, and something of drama:
“The statute used in this case,” O’Con-
nell continued, “was a slumbering statute
which had been breached by many asso-
ciations which take an oath. The Free-
masons come within the statute by swearing
not to disclose to any person what occurs
in their lodges, and the Orange Loages,
too, come under this Act. It is said that
many illustrious persons in this country are
at the head of the Orange Lodges, and
nobody has thought of prosecuting them.
This statute has been allowed to slumber
from the year 1797 and is only now raked
up to inflict an enormous punishment on
unfortunate men who were wholly ignorant
of its existence and who are innocent of
any moral offence.”
And Colonel Evans (Westminister);
I think the clear statement made by the
honorable and learned Member for Dublin
was sufficient to convince anybody that the
extreme rigor of the law should not be
carried into execution in the case in ques-
tion. I must remind the House of the
revolting case of a child who was recently
killed by a severe beating from its master,
and for that serious offence only two
months’ imprisonment was deemed suffi-
cient punishment. Such discrepancies, I
consider, are greatly injurious to the morals
of the people.
Altogether, it is the bread of history,
rather than the filling of fiction, that is
interesting. The latter is thin stuff. But
the history—and whatever morals there
may be drawn from it—is clearly pre-
sented. Mr. Meade has an impressive list
of authorities, and makes acknowledg-
ments to numerous persons for assistance.
Among others, to the staffs of the
Mitchell, Public and -Parliamentary
Libraries, Mr. Haylen, M.H.R., and Mr.
Menzies,
Prizes in Angus and Robertson’s com-
petition for plays for children, judged by
Leslie Rees and a Department of Edu-
cation committee, were won by Joseph
Swannell, Macleay-street, Sydney; H. T.
M. Middleton, Toowong, Q.; and
Musette Morell, Sydney. The plays are
to be published.


%
A
mi
smm
Ships 9 Chandlery-
Fourth Floor.
Sisal Rope
Prices, d-inch and -|-inch, 2/3 per lb.; l-irjch and up, 2/2 per lb.
The size of all Rope is measured by circumference, and
not by diameter.
Sisal and Steel Wire Rope prices are subject to mar\ct fluctuations.
Twine, Cordage, etc.
Sailmakers’ Twine, 3-ply and 5-ply. Hank, 3-ply, 3/4; 5-ply, 9d.
Tarred Marline, 1 lb. balls. Price, per ball 3/-
Tarred Yacht Marline, 2-ply, 1-Ib, ball. Price, per ball .... 9/-
Italian Hemp, Signal Halyards, -|-inch. Price, per lb 4/9
Cotton Rope, -f-inch to 1-f-inch. Price, per lb 5/2
Hemp Packing. Price, per lb 4/“
Europe Rope, -fin., price 2/9 per lb.; up to I din., per lb. 2/8
Coir Rope, sizes din. to Ifin., I;din. to 2fin., 2din. to 3in.,
prices per lb 1/8, 1/7, 1/7
Steel Wire Rope
Circumference Weight per fathom Break strain Price, per lb.
-|--inch f-lb. 2 tons 2/11
1 -inch ‘i-lb. 2-d tons 1/10
I d-inch 2-lb. 5 tons 1/5
Flow Steel Wire Rope. Size, circumference, fin. and i s sin. 2d. ft.
-|in., 6/1 per lb. (48ft. to lb.); -|in., 2/3 per lb. (15ft- to lb.);
fin., 1/11 per lb. (9ft. to lb.).
m
X
The "Ideal”
WALL
WINCH
Its capacity is 7 cwt.
Geared 10 to 1, and
djrect. Price . £7/2/6
ẅ
’PHONE; M 2401. DAY AND NIGHT BOX 2712 C. C.P.0.. SYDNEY
Rope Ladders, 10 feet, wooden
rungs. Price 25/9 each
9ft. Plywood Canoe and Paddle.
Price £l2
Wire Rope, Manila Rope Blocks
(Illustrated above.)
\
A.B. €.
Chain
Blocks 1
The A.B.C. Worm Gear
Chain Block is a general-
purpose * lifting block,
easy to handle, and a solid
and compact unit. All
component parts are
made out of the best
materials. Gears and
spindles are machine cut,
ensuring smooth working
action and the least wear..
Manufactured in the
following sizes:—
Ton, 1 Ton, 1 Ton,
2 Ton. Standard lift,
1 0 feet.
Price on application.
100% Australian made.
w
Stockless Anchors, Galvanized
5 lb. 7 lb. 10 lb. 12 lb. 15 lb.
14/3 16/- 18/6 20/6 23/6
Galvanised Stock Anchors. Ordinary pattern.
7-lbs. and up. Price, per lb 1/6
Anchor Chain Blocks
Anchor High Speed.
Ton Block, 1 Ton Block. 2 and 3 Ton
Blocks. Price on application.
w
Sculls, 6 ft. to 9 ft., price 49/6
Oars, Australian Ash. Size 6 ft., price 28/6
Size 7 ft., price 37/4
Size 8 ft., price 42/8
Size 9 ft., price 54/5
Caroe Paddles. Single, price, 3/9; double, price 19/6


ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S PUBLICATIONS
IBI.ES OF DESPAIR, by lon L. Idriess
This is the true story of Barbara Thomson, the “White Savage,” sole survivor of
wreck in which her husband was drowned, who was captured by members of a primitive
tribe and claimed by them as the dead daughter of their chief, returned to life. 9/6 (post 4d.).
BRINDLE ROYALIST, by Henry G. Lamond
Brindle Royalist is an unforgettable picture of outback Queensland. 8/6 (post 4d.).
CYCLONE, by Vance Palmer
Cyclone, Vance Palmer’s first novel for some years, is a story of conflict and emotional
tension that reaches its climax and solution in a cyclonic storm. 8/6 (post 3d.).
THE KING’S GENERAL, by Daphne du Maurier
This is a tale filled with exciting events and hairbreadth escapes, a tale of three hundred
years ago told as if it happened yesterday. 12/6 (post 4d.).
THE CRIPPLE IN BLACK, by E. V. Timms
Enacted in the vivid setting of Italy and England in the seventeenth century, this story
of passionate love and implacable hatred, of treachery and vengeance, is a supreme
achievement among historical novels. 7/6 (post 4d.).
BEN HALL THE BUSHRANGER, by Frank Clune
Frank Clune presents an exciting and absorbing novel based on the life of Ben Hall, the
bushranger. ,10/6 (post 6d.).
EVERYMAN’S MATHEMATICS, by F. G. Brown
Everyman’s Mathematics is very definitely a book for every man and woman. Its
colloquial style and easy language will make it a favourite among books for the million.
Its good humour and suave irony will raise many a chuckle among readers. 36/- (post Bd.).
Available at all Booksellers.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
Booksellers and Publishers,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
“RAPID” ACTION
CONCRETE BLOCK AND BRICK
MOULDING MACHINE
Hi
JI
A Complete Plant in Itself
An Immediate Solution for Homebuilders
• 5 Models Available
9 Hand-operated, Semi-automatic
• Eliminates Tamping
• Capacity 3 Blocks per minute
• Featuring Curved Blocks for Silos, Tanks, etc.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS—
INSPECTION INVITED
HALL & PYNE
Manufacturers of Special Purpose Machinery
63a Warren Road, Marrickville, Sydney.
’Phone: LL2441
Serve the ALL-ROUND Favourite
Serve QilbeyS allround
m
S'
m.
J
,
Lai
{ ■ V#
m
ta
ass®
M
V
il
V&
> ....._ c )
»•*
m
mm
Jk
■■f
Tlf-Z
S'
•*&*&
s-ro®* s^
The unanimous choice of Gilbey's is not alone an acknowledgment
of its excellence it is a recognition of the versatile character of
’this splendid spirit. As the base of your most ingenious cocktails,
or the foundation of the finest long drinks, Gilbey's is unquestionably
the "all-round" spirit.
$aV
Qilbeys
THE WORLD STANDARD BY WHICH ALL GINS ARE JUDGED
G/1696
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of verse “Flying Kate.”—4l2l.
To buy “Sudden Death,’* a road-safety
pamphlet by Joseph Furnas.—4120.
Words of verse “Bottle Queen” by “Lance
Jack” beginning:
We bred her in the suburbs, and we trained her
after dark,
At times upon the Botany-road, at others in the park.
—4119.
To buy copies of Sainte Colline and Cloche-
merle, by Gabriel Chevallier.—4118.
To buy book of drawings by Oswald Pryor.
—4117.
Whereabouts of Spencer Donald Austin, one-
time blacksmith at Parramatta (N.5.W.).—4116.
To buy, good condition, copy of Cunning-
ham’s Dissection Manual, Vol. I, 9th or 10th
edn., wanted urgently by young student.—4115.
To buy copy of Round the World with a
Circus, by George Wirth, published in 1925 by
Troedel and Cooper, Melbourne.—4113.
To communicate with persons holding letters
from and a photograph of Paul Wenz, French-
Australian writer.—4ll4.
To exchange set of Thackeray’s works, pub-
lished in 1876 for complete Oxford edition of
same author’s works. Cash adjustment if neces-
sary.—4ll2.
Information Sought.
What daily newspapers are published in each
of the State capital cities of Australia and by
whom are they owned?
Sydney; “S. M. Herald” (John Fairfax and
Sons, Pty., Ltd.), “Sun” (Associated News-
papers, Ltd.), “Daily Mirror” (Truth and
Sportsman, Ltd.), and “Daily Telegraph” (Con-
solidated Press, Ltd.). Melbourne: “Age”
(David Syme and Co.), “Argus” (Argus and
Australasian, Ltd.), “Sun News-Pictorial” (Pic-
torial Newspapers) and “Herald” (Herald and
Weekly Times, Ltd.). Brisbane: “Courier-
Mail” (Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.) and
“Telegraph” (Telegraph Newspaper Co., Ltd.).
Adelaide; “Advertiser” (Advertiser Newspapers,
Ltd.) and “News” (News, Ltd.). Perth: “West
Australian” (West Australian Newspapers, Ltd.)
and “Daily News” (Perth Newspapers, Ltd.).
Hobart: “Mercury” (Davies Bros., Ltd.).
(1) At what rate does the Commonwealth
Bank sell Norwegian kroners in Australia? (2)
How much money would I be allowed to take
out of Australia for the purpose of visiting
Norway ?
(1) 15.82 kroner to the Australian pound.
(2) In the absence of full particulars concern-
ing the purpose and nature of the trip to be
taken, no definite amount can be stated. Appli-
cations for foreign currency to cover travelling
and living expenses outside the sterling area
are, under existing conditions, determined
according to the circumstances of each indivi-
dual case. Suggest that you make an appli-
cation to the Commonwealth Bank, setting out
the full circumstances of your case and out-
lining your requirements.
What is the theory governing the working of
the approximate water-bottle barometer, which
indicates falling pressure, described in Service
Dept. ( B . 1/10/’47)?
The outside atmospheric pressure must bal-
ance the weight of water and air pressure in
the bottle. When the outside pressure rises it
cannot force tlje water any higher in the bottle
because the water is an almost incompressible
fluid and at ordinary pressures its compression
or expansion is practically negligible. If any-
thing some air molecules may find their way
through the hole in the cork and bubble to
the top. When the outside pressure falls, how-
ever, the weight of water and air in the bottle
will now be greater and consequently the water
will tend to drip through the hole. Incidentally,
if the temperature rises considerably some water
may evaporate into the space above and on a
considerable drop in temperature this evaporated
water (vapor) would condense again. On this
account, therefore, there may be perceptible
changes in the water level due to extreme
temperature changes.
My cinerarias are badly attached with a leaf
disease; is there any method to get rid of it ?
Too late to do anything now. Once the leaf-
miner gets between the upper and lower surfaces
of the leaves you may kill off some of them
by squeezing the affected parts between finger
and thumb. Bum all diseased foliage. Next
season, before and after setting out plants,
spray the leaves under and over every week
with nicotine or arsenate of lead. It will be for
the benefit of the plants if some of the mixture
runs into the surface at the stem-base.
Formula for a whitewash, using salt, rice and
glue in addition to lime?
» Slake half-bushel (one kero.-tin) live lime with
enough warm water to cover (put bag over to
keep in steam). Strain liquid through fine sieve
and add 141 b. salt (first dissolved in warm water
to cover), 31b. ground rice boiled to thin paste
and stirred in boiling, £lb. whiting and ilb.
glue already melted over slow fire. Add five
gallons water to the mixture, stir Well, cover
and leave two days. Put it on hot. One pint
covers one square yard. Use small brush and
use as paint.
Brief Answers.
W.F.D.; “Bellerive,” of “Answers to Corre-
spondents” fame, is a real person. He lives at
Footscray (Vic.) and has been writing for The
Bulletin for over 30 years C.H.H.: Henry
Handel Richardson died on March 20, 1946....
N.M.8.: Send full particulars, including size
and condition of pictures, with photographs of
them if possible, to John Young, 3 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .A.J.: In general there is no
liability on a N.S.W. principal to insure an
independent contractor or any employees
engaged by him. There are, however, certain
exceptions, particularly in regard to timber
getting and clearing, the details of which can-
not be supplied without further information.
It is suggested that you write direct to the
Registrar, Workers’ Compensation Commission,
60 Hunter-street, Sydney J.W.R.: Suggest
that you send them to the Red Cross Society,
27 Jamieson-street, Sydney C.8.A.: Write
G. Gramp and Sons, Ltd., 24 Jamieson-street,
Sydney C.G.: Write Prime Minister’s Dept.,
Canberra... J.L.: An author who publishes
a book is not required to perform any social
duties he or she does not wish to perform.
G.K.: “Payment on .clhim” means that the
contributor is required to claim fbr payment
on the publication of his contribution. Most
papers, however, pay for short stories upon
acceptance H.H.C.: The area of Lake Eyre
North is 2970 square miles, and of Lake Eyre
South 460 square miles. These lakes are salt
and at ordinary times are vast mud flats, hav-
ing a little water in them after floods. The
arms and reaches of the lakes near the shores
are more boggy and dangerous than the in-
terior, and the shores are 39ft. below sea-level.
W.W.: (1) About 4,000,000. (2) The
quotation is from “King Lear,” Act iv, scene
6 Depositor: Depositors are entitled to
repayment out of all the assets of the bank,
regardless of whether the assets are in Aus-
tralia or England Sol: Trawling in the Lane
Cove River (N.S.W.) is legal W.W.McD.:
The N.S.W. Labor platform of 1891 contained
16 planks V.H.G.: Assuming that the requi-
site notice was served under the Fences Act,
1861, the owner would be liable for half cost.
N.P.: Write Secretary, Department of Ex-
ternal Territories, Canberra M.J.CTN.: It
is possible to make lime soap, but this is no
use for washing purposes as it is insoluble in
water. Having made it, it would still be neces-
sary to convert it into ordinary soap by further
treatment with soda ash, so that in the long
run there is nothing to be gained by making
lime soap E.R.8.: Commercial “Plastic-
Wood” preparations such as Selley’s Wood
Filling, Nu-Wood or Necpl Cement available
at most hardware stores are quite suitable.
When using these materials, slightly overfill the
crack or hole so that when they dry, which
is accompanied by slight shrinkage, they will
finish flat. As they all contain sawdust your
floor should then take the stain satisfactorily.
R.P.H.: Have posted some notes on the
control of silverfish... .L.M.: Practically all
varieties from the U.S.A. are prohibited under
Commonwealth Quarantine (Plants) regulations,
owing to the danger of introducing disease
V. We have forwarded copy of pamphlet
“Concrete Troughs, Tanks and Wells” which
contains full details of recommended method
of cementing corrugated-iron water tanks....
F.8.E.: Harold Gatty’s address is Lexington
Hotel, Lexington-avenue and 48th-street, New
York City, N.Y S.E.P.: Write H. Septimus
Power, 54 Crisp-street, Hampton, Vic
E.K.S.; The stamp is the id. Gt. Britain issued
in 1870; it is priced in catalogues at Is. each
used. The lettering differs on every stamp m
the sheet G.E.0.; Write Chancery Regis-
trar’s Office, Royal Courts of Justice, London,
W.


Public Notice.
I, KARL ERNST AUGUST COOPER of Austrian
nationality, born at Zbll Am/see in the country of
Austria and resident ten years in Australia and now
residing at Adelaide River, Northern Territory, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1926.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER GRUNERT.—TAKE NOTICE that
HORACE YOUNG has filed his petition for Divorce
No. 3256 of J. 947 on the grounds of your adultery
with his wife, CAROLA EUGENIE YOUNG If you
wish to defend the suit you may enter an appear*
ance on or before the 16th day of December 1947
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney and a copy of the petition may be
had without charge from J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, 115
Pitt Street, Sydney.—(l.S.) C. K. BODY', Registrar
in Divorce.
Trinity Grammar School
SUMMER HILL AND STRATHFIELD
A Church of England School for Boys
9^'
-■gzpz
&
%
&
rr.:.cz^>
(The additions to School House, Summer Hill).
The School accommodates Its 500 boys in three separate, but closely
allied, establishments; the Senior School at Summer Hill, and the
Preparatory School and Junior House at Strathfield. Boys of protestani
denomination are taken from Kindergarten to Matriculation Honours in
all subjects. A number of valuable scholarships is awarded annually.
The new additions to School House at Summer Hill, and the recently
acquired Junior House at Strathfield, provide unsurpassed boarder ac-
commodation. The School has 17 acres of fine grounds and playing
fields and an up to date Swimming Pool with filtration plant.
Although the completed building scheme will provide considerable
extra accommodation, immediate enrolment for 1948 and subsequent
years is advised. For School Prospectus and all other details apply
to the Bursar at Summer Hill.
Headmaster: J. Wilson Hogg, M.A. (Oxon).
FOR THE
WORKERS
Hoff?
to plan
Mobile
Service
JF the various work buildings of your factory are single-storied and close to each other, there should be no difficulty
in organising the Tea Service. You will, of course, arrange for the tea-making station to be at the most con-
venient point, bearing in mind the position of the water supply, drainage, and the heating medium. The number of
personnel in the various buildings will determine the number of trolleys needed. In buildings where there are consider-
ably more workers than in others, you can either stagger the tea break, or put more trolleys into service, so that the
workers are served without waste of their time or yours. The type of boiler will be governed by the number of
personnel, staggering or not of breaks, and the heating medium.
'/SSSSSSS////SS//,
\ *••••
S||
‘*0 lie
f t mmmm
r *C U£
T*OLIE
Tr O Ub
TR O LUrs
T *oi u
TR OLL£Ys
Some factory layouts introduce complications. There
might be buildings with two or more stories, but no lifts.
And the workers on the upper floors are on process work,
and unable to leave their machines. In others, the position
of machinery might make the passage of a trolley from one
room to another impossible. Or you might find a building
isolated from the tea station because the track to it is
difficult for trolleys. These are only some of the minor
problems which might confront managements, but a satis-
TS
factory Tea Service is so essential to modern industry that
the time and care spent on a well-laid plan will be fully
justified. If you are in any doubt, whether on a portion
of your plan or in the complete organisation of your Tea
Service, you arc invited to call in The Tea Bureau, whose
help and advice will be given freely, and without cost.
A brochure giving details of the advisory service offered by
The Tea Bureau will be sent free on request.
THE TEA BUREAU
If you have any Tea problems, write or *phone The Tea Bureau, (Service Dept,),
31 Macquarie Place, Sydney (Tel. 8W6692) and 47 Queen St., M elb. (Tel. C. 1100)
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
A . „„ j nddress must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions vo/MUffir/Zy
submitted; and no MS, will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
Ox- Very lean beef... .J.K.F.; Too many
“ravenous hounds” and other howling over-
s Sent . -Digger Dick: Dicken, Dick
C C G • You may have pruned some of tne
archaisms and poetic cliches, but you still have
“svlvan fringe,” “mystic magic sleight” and
“Sing 1 Tell”.; A.wispy, link
whisner O 8.5.: In short, it is sunrise
JB ,P A glimmer in it... .H.E.R.: You’d need
to nass from the general to the particular to
say anything fresh on that ancient theme.,..
H.P.: Come in and skip a pace or two;
Whv aren’t we slimming on old Shanks’s pony
With prices of wattage all risen so high?_
The back of the hand to the hovering taxi,
Burden of butterflies, prythoe don’t cry.
With a gossamer fee it’s as good as for free
And be damned for a sigh as we simplify.
L.C.; Well, here’s a peg to hang your
hatter on:
For the trapper, was a hatter
And mad as only they can be
Who prefejr to live alone
With only a hat for company.
LW.B.: If that was done in “an inspired
moment” your uninspired moments must be
frightfully du11... .T.F.M.: The green-eyed girl
at the hamburger joint was only mildly interest-
ing WR.W.: Too much of it —it could be
put’’in half the sfiace.... J.D.: Brian James
ploughed that furrow just ahead of you
CK : Having written the story, you might
have forwarded an explanation with it
A.W.: Promising; try again J.O’G.: Just
another dreary Saturday-afternoon Donnybrook.
M.A.: Pop in:
But let these gracious plants, poppies,
Even if related to a noxious species,
Be admired for grace, not overlooked
Because they might have killed Coleridge.
And now I’ve thought it over,
I will not ever uncover
What has been closed so long,
For fear it bursts like a new song.
So I will not wake the damage
Of that, that killed Coleridge.
. ...D.F.: So roughly done we wore out two
perfectly good pair of boots in tramping through
it A.H.M.: That yarn, with variations, has
been worked a thousand times N.P.: You
don’t make the best of what there is of it....
H.C.8.: A rambling yarn of little interest which
plays around a very small plot K.A.; Too
feeble to flutter to the printer, who’s up another
four flights T.J.J.: The humor about it is
that you should think it funny... .N.S.W.:
Afraid the patriotic cheers the office gave upon
receiving your story about the young Princess
is the only reward you will receive... .A.C.L.:
Your fancy rumbles ponderously in an old rut.
B.G.R.: But Old Bill the Swagman has
been- saying exactly t the same thing ever since
young writers who' never carried a swag dis-
covered .him C.R.S.; You send us_ five
stories, each with half a dozen corpses in it.
The market for dead bodies is oversupplied
F.H.M.: “The Verdict” promised to be a
double nip of o.p. rum, but finished as a
powdered-milk romance... .E.N.G.: Drowned
in unnecessary description of sunrise and sunset
—which, after all, have nothing to do with the
yarn... .G.S.H.: You run the wheels of a
creaking dray along ruts that have been made by
a million story writers and call it “giving rein
to imagination” R.H.G.: Gloomy yarn with
rough edges....E.M.: More murders! The
fictipn pages of The Bulletin aren’t abattoirs.
M.F.O’D.: Get it off your chest, then:
Oh, there are no chats in Chatswood nor crows at
•Crowsnest,
They grow apples up in Orange, and Eastwood lies
nor’-west.
No plonk is sold at Bombo, and no wool grows in
the ’Loo;
No pipe band in Point Piper, no zombies in the Zoo.
Tom Ugly’s is, a beauty spot, but Botany’s on the
nose,
St. Peter’s is a city dump, at six our pubs all close.
Lake George is just a desert, but the Tank Stream’s
flowing still,
No figs are grown at Figtree, no hunts in Hunter’s
Hill.
No Irish in Paddy’s Market, but Chinamen and
Greeks,
No fish in the Fishmarket for weeks and weeks and
weeks.
D.P.M.: Madeline’s “torn and bleeding
heart” can’t bleed in our pages... .K.F.: All
you do is to marry your bad-tempered hero
to your sulky heroine. Serve them both right.
T.A.: The blood was still dripping from
your gory MS. when we posted it back
H.C.; The story is poor and thin and you take
a long time to tell it W. 5.8.: You haven’t
a chance in a million of even being read until
you change the spiders that do your writing.
E.M.L.: “If lam not successful with this
story I will try again.” Is it a threat?
T.R.; On reaching the third coincidence in
your yarn we decided that you only wrote it
to kill time... .F.T.S.: One plain paragraph
would have told the tale without ail that con-
fusion W.A.: Your wrestling parson got
no grip on* us F.F.: Weeping over deserted
scenes of childhood, always in some country
place, is overdone J. 8.5.: Story well told,
but its finish is an anticlimax H.C.: A
story of night disturbances doesn’t make a
story... .A.E.F.: Story unreal, and do you
know any author* in Australia “residing in a
20-guineas flat, employing a Cnjinese man-
servant and a glamorous blonde secretary and
owning the finest collection of French impres-
sionist art south of the equator”? ... .T.M.:
A sharp axe is kept for the man who uses 500
words to say that the story he is about to tell
is funny... .R.G.: More a massacre than a
story. .. .W.N.8.: “Please forward cheque by
return” was the only light touch we could
discover... .R.C.: After reading your story, for
what seemed hours, we concluded that you
meant it ran to 5000 furlongs—not words....
H.M.: The fact that you are glad spring has
come and sorry it will go lacks interest....
C.L.L.: You have the gift of anticipation, ro
instance, “His widow mourned by the bedside
of the dying man” L.R.: Jack
Funeral,” which wanders for 4000 words, has
found the cemetery.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.M.W.: Where did you see an Australian
soldier dressed like that? .... A.K.: “Em afraid
I’m much better with a crowbar than a pen.
We admire your candor... .S.M.T.: Will
lessons help?” Yes, if you stick to them and
go to life for your subjects P.P.: You re
not a very mirthful cove, are you? .•. .A;S.C.:
The fact that you’re the first to depict Chifley
smoking a hookah doesn’t make the drawing
an acceptable cartoon... .L.G.S.: Really, it s
time that somebody put that drunk under lock
and key for ever... .W.E.; Not amused by
the antics of the bathing beauty... .K.M.D.:
You did it for a bet! If you wagered that
we would take it you lose your money
M. 8.: Drawing was so crowded that it re-
minded us it was time to join the five-
to-six crush... .R.C.: Not this week’s worst,
but very close to it... .T.C.: No hand-outs for
your battered swagman P.C.L.: Spotted and
angular female bathers swapping puns on stony
beach declined A.J.R.: You draw as if you
were in a straitjacket N.K.W.: Shout the
lot a bottle of body restorer... .S.R.E.: More
suited for a children’s comic... .J.J.: Wash
drawing reminds us of a mud geyser at the
top of its form L.T.D.: Pay more attention
to drawing and less to the lettering of the joke.
... .W.A.C.; You send us a handful of visiting-
cards with inky splashes upon the back and
ask for a staff job. What have we done to
deserve it? .... V.T.: The crying drunk was told
to dry his tears and stand on someone else’s
doormat... .L.H.C.; Putting a line down
straight seems to be a task too great for you.


',y£-A-z'~~:
n>
«
&
mat-
SSSS
'o
<
L
■
WHO LIVID IN AN
UNINSULATED, HOUSE
# a O
INSULATION WITH B.L SLAGWOOL is the
one safe and sure method of keeping your home
a haven of coo! comfort and restful nights in
Summer. For your comfort‘d sake have your home
insulated with B.i. Slagwool. •
UNINSULATED: In this home the
heat penetrates through the uninsulated
roof and walls, resulting in oven-like
conditions throughout day and night.
8.1. INSULATED: 8.1. Slagwool
applied to the ceilings and walls of this
home keeps the heat out, resulting in a
drop of up to 15° inside the home.
wsulation
PTY.
LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 190 Sussex Street. Sydney. M 3038.
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins St., Melbourne; Shell House, Nth. Terrace, Adelaide.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN LTD., 146 Lichfield Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM, Shell House, North Terrace, Adelaide.
T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray Street, Perth.
Agents: BARKER & CO. LTD., 87 Eagle Street. Brisbane. FLOWER, DAVIES &
JOHNSON LTD., 413 Murray Street, Perth. New Zealand Agent: WINSTONE
LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N., Christchurch, Dunedin. Bl 82 2
ŵ
wm
hL p‘ ' m
Every year the name of Vickers-Armstrongs comes to be
more closely linked with outstanding achievement in aircraft
design and manufacture. The SPITFIRE Trainer of today is
training fighter pilots of tomorrow. Britain has the fastest
piston-engined single-seater fighter in the world in the
SPITEFOL.The Vickers Supermarine SEAGULL amphibian
flying boat with variable incidence wing carries on the
tradition of this type. The ATTACKER Jet Single-seater
Fighter represents pioneer achievement in this new and
rapidly developing field of design. In the sphere of passenger
transport, four of the Vickers VIKING civil type aircraft
were selected from all other British types for the Royal Tour
of South Africa. The new series will include the twin
jet-engined NENE VIKING and the VISCOUNT V.C.2
fitted with four airscrew turbine units. The department of the
Aircraft section responsible for the well-known Vickers
AIRCRAFT ACCESSORIES has resumed production and
will include newly designed components for aircraft of all types.
mstrongs
i
ited
AIRCRAFT SECTION
VICKERS HOUSE. BROADWAY, LONDON, S.W.i
0.a.t.21 rr
SHIPS lEERS * AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS
PORPHYRY
By BRIAN JAMES
a /'’’N F course,” Miss Margaret used
I 1 to say with that peculiar little
y J backward jerk of her head,
“of course, I do like the name
‘Marcel.’ It is an honorable name, and
there is History —and Adventure—in it.
But it is not the name I should have
chosen had I been consulted at the time,
“You must understand, to reach that
name it is necessary to trace back through
a female line, and that to me does not
seem exactly the correct thing. ‘Porphyry’
would have been my choice. Indeed,
yes.” . •
Miss Margaret Overley was by ordin-
ary human reckoning, so often a poor
guide, fifty-seven. Otherwise, she was
ageless. A gentle soul, rather frail-look-
ing, but with surprising strength of
body and mind for all that, venr straight,
very erect, and her neat grey head gave
the absurd impression of a poppy on
its stem. She lived with her brother
—James R. Overley. The “R.” stood for
“Renfrew,” but few besides Miss
Margaret knew that, and James himself
seemed to have forgotten. She managed
the home, and had done ever since Louisa
died years and years ago.
Coogal was the Overley home, the
finest in Sunbeam ; and there was nothing
around all Laidlaw either to equal it.
The big red roof showed in glimpses
only among the trees—dark green of fig
and bunya and light green of jacaranda
and plane. No detail anywhere that was
not a perfect blending of the natural and
artificial, even to the* barn and stables
and dairy.
I AMES R. Overley was the big
solicitor in Laidlaw, just on five miles
from Coogal. And five miles meant
just under half an hour with his pair of
bay trotters and his spanking and shining
light buggy. Set your clock, morning
and evening most times, by James R. as
his bays flew along the road with their
effortless speed.
Hard man, James R., most people said,
You had only to look at his thin line
of a mouth and his firm well-shaped
chin to see that; and his steady eye, and
his close-clipped head—very severe—and
his clipped moustache, made him as
crispy to the eye as his precise speech
was to the ear.
Other men in those spacious days when
time wasn’t exactly money had endless
varieties of beards and moustaches and
“mutton chops” and what not, and may
have been a little vain, too, about these
adornments, but the close cropping of
James R. spelt a different sort of pride.
And James R. was wealthier Jhan any-
one else, and that made him much
respected and disliked. There is always
a murmur against success—too much
success; which is always humanly offen-
sive. James R. was the first solicitor of
Laidlaw, and had a practice that could
have swallowed up all the rest without
any trouble.
And as a farmer he could have “bought
and sold” all the other farmers of Sun-
beam. No one likes to feel that he can
be bought and sold: it is a fatal thrust
at self-respect and well-being. So James
R. was “hard as nails,” his tenant farmers
said, and so did the share-farmers. To
those outside any such overlordship,
except that of their being in a “bought and
sold” position, James R. was described in
the familiarity of absence as “a fair
bastard.”
No attempt was made to prove this —
it was just an axiom, or general prin-
ciple. From the hardness of nails and
the figurative illegitimacy it naturally
followed that James R. was “lousy with
cash.”
THERE was only one child to James
R. —the Marcel whose name so un-
fittingly derived from the female line.
And at twenty or so this same Marcel
was a thorn in his father’s side. What
James R. expected of his son it would
be hard to say—possibly a replica of him-
self, for there was sufficient of unreason-
ing pride in him for that. But whatever
the ambition was, he was bound to be
disappointed.
Marcel, educated in Sydney, was some-
thing of a stranger, too, and there was
little enough in common even at that.
He irritated at every turn.
Above all, Marcel was down at Roach’s
altogether too much—and there was no
denying that Kitty Roach—yes, Kitty was
the name, and what could you expect from
a name like Kitty?—there was no deny-
ing that Kitty was beautiful. In a way.
Roach himself was well enough. In a
way. But common —yes, common.
He might be a man of some substance,
and of small leadership in Sunbeam.
But common. Common—and R.Cs. too!
Faugh!
Marcel was popular. No use blinking
that fact. And it hurt too, despise as
much as one liked the reasons, positive
and negative, for that popularity, and
the givers of it. And Marcel was hand-
some, and wild and reckless in his own
way, and given to a gay sort of swagger-
ing that displeased no one except his
father.
But that Kitty Roach! James R. had
ways of learning things, and more than
a shrewd way of putting two and two
together. He knew —yes, he knew—all or
nearly all about those “accidental” meet-
ings of Marcel and Kitty at the Wilson’s
place.
Marcel would shoulder his gun and
stalk purposefully to the top of Langdon
Hill and there watch Roach’s till Kitty
departed for Wilson’s. Then Marcel
would go down the other side and —just
by merest chance —turn up at Wilson’s.
A poor sort of subterfuge that was! And
the Wilsons ought to know better. But
Robert Wilson was not the sort of man
one could say too much to . . .
And those little picnics on the river
■—two in a boat down to Roger’s Bend
or Cedar Creek or Teal Island! Fine
business that . . .
And did he really want to marry that
Roach girl? But whichever way it went
it would be bad enough. And there had
been others too before this Kitty affair.
There was always someone in fact. Bad
trouble once ...
James R. reflected bitterly—things were
different thirty years ago. Or were they
just the same? No, they were different.
Anyhow, that was thirty years ago—and
that made alt the difference . . .
MISS Margaret was fond of Marcel.
Very fond, and she stood his friend.
There was no tendency on Miss Mar-
garet’s part to condone .anything that
wasn’t proper. Far from it. Miss
Margaret had her own personal code of
morality, so strict and unbending that
even a general application of a modified
form of it would result in no one being
born any more. Or even thought of.
In the olden times it was different, of
course. That was so long ago that
certain things, shocking now, were even
amusing. Time is like that —it can put a


GIBRALTAR . -
Impregnable stronghold
on the South Coast of
Spain and long recog-
nised as a symbol of
enduring strength. Brit-
ish guardian of the
Mediterranean since
1704 . . .
m
m
m
few
- 1 -
SYMBOL OF
Strength
PRB
Because of it’s great tensile strengtK,
extreme rigidity and ability to give
many years of serviceable life,
LYSAGHT’S ORB GALVANIZED
IRON has become widely recognised
as a symbol of enduring strength and
long life. Freely specified by archi-
tects and builders everywhere it cuts
construction costs, provides 100%
protection against fire and once in
position is fully permanent.
IYSJIGHT’S
ẁ
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Ltd.
ẃ
Us6a
TILLEY LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Modern Form of PORTABLE LIGHTING
PRODUCTION FOR EXPORT
WE ARE PLEASED TO INFORM OUR
FRIENDS OVERSEAS OF NEW AND
IMPORTANT PREMISES ACQUIRED TO
FACILITATE PRODUCTION FOR EXPORT.
ALSO OUR POST-WAR MODELS ARE
NOW IN FULL PRODUCTION AND WILL
BE ON OFFER IN ALL PARTS OF THE
WORLD. TILLEY STANDARDS ARE MAIN-
TAINED AND INCORPORATED IN COM-
PLETELY MODERN DESIGNS OF LAMPS.
BRENT WORKS,
HENDON, N.W.4
NEW BRENT WORKS,
crickl£wood, N.W.2.
THE TILLEY LAMP CO. LTD* of ENGLAND
London Offices and Showroom : 33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l.
T. H. BENTLEY,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
Pty. Ltd., 123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
glove over Robin Hood, or Blue Beard
himself.
Porphyry belonged well back in the
olden times. After him, but still far
enough back to be mentionable, there had
been “poor dear grandfather.”
Poor dear grandfather, apparently, had
been notably set in a gallery among such
picturesque figures as King Solomon and
Henry VIII. He had married three times,
and his numerous family had flourished in
three distinct (and antagonistic) brigades.
These branches varied in worth according
to the quality of the mother concerned.
And, right back in the time-roman-
ticised days of colonial beginnings, there
was poor dear grandfather’s Uncle
Porphyry. And that was so long
ago that the gay misdoings of Porphyry
could be now viewed with that philo-
sophic calm so mercifully granted the
most proper when they read the richest
and ripest of amorous adventures in the
Old Testament.
There was something particularly allur-
ing about this same Porphyry, men-
tally condemn him as one might for
unnumbered misdemeanors. There was
something direct and dashing about all
he did, an impulsiveness that was honesty
itself. Besides being “gay,” he was “wild”
in a truly medieval sort of way.
Duelling, it seemed, was the chief pas-
time and relaxation to his serious busi-
ness of love. Pistols and foils were all
one to him. Miss Margaret would say
with that little backward toss of her head
and a momentary flash in her dear grey
eyes, “you know the sort of thing—
pistols for two and coffee for one.” There
was a rare grim humor to this that only
the long, dead days —that were not dead
at all—could sanction.
Porphyry’s duels—no one, not even
Miss Margaret knew just how many
there were —were mainly, if not wholly,
divisible into two classes, according to
cause —love and honor. And sometimes
the two together. Porphyry was very
strict and touchy in such matters.
The last of his duels on English soil,
coupled with the closely related matter of
the abduction of a brewer’s daughter from
a ladies’ finishing school, really decided
Porphyry’s coming to the colonies.
That flight of Porphyry and the
brewer’s daughter' in a plum-colored
coach to northward —presumably towards
Gretna Green —and the pursuit by the
enraged and distraught brewer was an
epic in itself. The duel was fought with
someone who came rather obscurely into
the story—apparently Porphyry had not
made all the details too clear for pos-
terity.
But the point remained that the abduc-
tion didn’t so much matter at .this distance
in time —the young lady’s father being
only a brewer. That he was only a
brewer, in some way or other, excused
Porphyry.
But unfortunately, while only a brewer,
hS had not so long before been made a
baronet. And the fact .that the young
lady was a baronet’s daughter made
Porphyry’s action not only inexcusable
but delightfully romantic. And this cir-
cumstance had not a little to do with
Porphyry’s decision to migrate to the
colonies.
The outcome of the duel was likewise
obscure, beyond the fact that Porphyry
won —as he always did.
NOR did Porphyry alter his gait
appreciably in the new country: he
lodged, with characteristic precision and
promptitude, a pistol bullet isi the breast-
bone of an officer of the regiment. And
further, he gained a merited reputation
for chivalry by firing his pistol into the
air above him, what time the Governor’s
o Continued on page 32.)
Day of the Statue.
You look for prodigies leaning on the
sill of a storm
Or loitering about the wake of a snuffed-
out light;
But such things are apt, as you know, on
these days of full sunshine
To be quietly pocketed or else shoved
clean out of sight.
Certainly, three fishermen out on the bay
And the shaping of a miracle are rarely
aligned.
History bells hours only, clock on the
walls of speeches:
Work and silence tick unnoticed with the
second-hand.
Moored to drifting banks of sun and
shadow.
With an impotent tremor in the sails, the
ketch nosed down.
Plunged to the bowsprit in the swell, rose
dripping, gasping
As if with eagerness to suck in air again.
And the men grouped snugly in this dee-
ward pediment of time.
With their slow gestures of toil, felt a
curious lagging in the strands
Of their sunken net, as if parallel action
under the }vater
Passed on a sort of nerveless shock to
the hands.
Your touch on a net-load of fish short-
circuits life:
The cargo is arteries stabbed in their
element and shaking,
But this haul yielded stubbornly like an
eye-tooth wrenched
From the iron jaws of the sea-bed,
shuddering and aching.
As it cleared the surface, green sinews
of water
Fell away or hung in twitching, glass-
like shreds:
With turmoil something started up from
its dissolution,
Slow centuries of pressure, freezing lust
of weeds —
A bronze youth moulded like a lyric or
a prayer
Or the commuted echo Of a thousand
perished songs,
Eyes, ears, Ups bedizened with the sea’s
grey mockery,
A parody of form, a constriction of the
lungs.
This might knock gongs of clamor in the
little town,
Set cables rattling, win a forgotten bet;
Now it sprawled like a wound on the
rough white planks
While its finders cursed the gaps torn in
their net.
Beauty comes baleful as a skull, comes
riven from the sea:
Well to consider the mortal, the native
token
Before you polish, incise—before you
replace
What that bronze arm once clutched that
Time has broken.
Canada.
FRANCIS WEBB.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WHEN STALIN GOES.
In a striking article on present Soviet
conduct, an anonymous writer (“X”) in
the current American “Foreign Affairs”
analyses elements likely to work the des-
truction of the much-trumpeted colossus.
“X” makes his analysis on this basis:
The Soviet thesis not only assumes complete
lack of control by the West over its own
economic destiny, it likewise assumes Russian
unity, discipline and patience over an indefinite
period. Let us bring this apocalyptic vision
down to earth, and suppose that the Western
world finds the strength and resourcefulness
to contain the Soviet power over a period of
10 to 15 years. What does that spell for
Russia itself?
“X,” whose article N.Y. “World-
Telegram” referred to as “attracting much
diplomatic attention,” generally argues
that if the Soviet Union can be held in*
check for the 10 or 15 years the result
may be a more co-operative attitude or
a breakdown of Russian power. The
main lines of argument are: (a) Soviet
leaders hope for and expect an eventual
breakdown of the capitalist world; (b)
meanwhile they justify their dictatorship
by preaching the menace of capitalist en-
circlement, and (c) abroad they follow a
practice of expanding into all areas where
other Powers are weak.
“X” allows that the Soviet despotism
has for the present solved the question of
absolute obedience by the use of “organs
of suppression,” but has in the process
built up forces which, now vastly swollen,
have become in large measure the masters
of those whom they were designed to
serve:
As things stand today, the rulers can no
longer dream of parting with these organs of
suppression. The quest for absolute power,
pursued now for nearly three decades with a
ruthlessness unparalleled (in scope at least) in
modern times, has again produced internally,
as it did externally, its own reaction. The
excesses of the police apparatus have fanned
the potential opposition to the regime into
something far greater and more dangerous than
it could have been before those excesses began.
“X” also allows that the Kremlin has
been able to build up a very considerable
heavy industry ; “to be sure, not yet com-
plete, but continuing to grow, and
approaching those of the other major
industrial countries”:
All this, however —both the maintenance of
internal political security and the building of
heavy industry—has been carried out at a ter-
rible cost in human life and in human hopes
and energies. It has necessitated the use of
forced labor on a scale unprecedented in
modern times under conditions of peace. It
has involved the neglect or abuse of other
phases of Soviet economic life, particularly
agriculture, consumers’ goods production,
housing and transportation.
To all that, the war has added its tremen-
dous toll of destruction, death and human
exhaustion. In consequence of this we have
in Russia today a population which is physically
and spiritually tired. The mass of the people
are disillusioned, sceptical and no longer acces-
sible as they once were to the magical attrac-
tion which Soviet power still radiates to its
followers abroad.
Because there are limits beyond which
people cannot be driven, even by the
cruellest dictatorship, “the forced labor
camps and other agencies of restraint”
provide only “temporary means of com-
pelling people to work longer hours than
their own volition or mere economic pres-
sure would dictate,” and “if people sur-
vive them at all they become old before
their time and must be considered as
human casualties to the demands of dic-
tatorship,” and hostile at that. As well,
“X” sees the Soviet economic develop-
ment, despite “certain formidable
achievements,” as “precariously spotty
and uneven”;
Here is a nation striving to become in a
short period one of the great industrial nations
of the world while it still has no highway net-
work worthy of the name and only a relatively
primitive network of railways. Much has been
done to increase efficiency of labor and to
teach primitive peasants something about the
operation of machines. But maintenance is
still a crying deficiency of all Soviet economy.
Construction is hasty and poor in quality.
Depreciation must tre enormous. And in vast
sectors of economic life it has not yet been
possible to instill into labor anything like that
general culture of production and technical
self-respect which characterises the skilled
worker of the West.
“X” questions how those deficiencies
can#be corrected by “a tired and dispirited
population working largely under the
shadow of fear and compulsion” ; and
“as long as they are not overcome, Russia
will remain economically a vulnerable,
and in a certain sense an impotent, nation,
capable of exporting its enthusiasms and
of radiating the strange charm of its
primitive political vitality but unable to
back up those articles of export by the
real evidences of material power and
prosperity.”
Against that background “X” goes on
to examine “the great uncertainty which
hangs over the political life of the Soviet
Union” ; the uncertainty “involved in the
transfer of power from one individual or
group of individuals to others,” which
would instantly come to a climax with
the passing of Stalin:
We must remember that Stalin’s succession
to Lenin’s pinnacle of pre-eminence in the
Communist movement was the only such trans-
fer of individual authority which the Soviet
Union has experienced. The transfer took 12
years to consolidate. It cost the lives of millions
of people and shook the State to its foun-
dations. The attendant tremors were felt all
through the international revolutionary move-
ment
While another such transfer might take
place quietly, “it is possible that the ques-
tions involved may unleash, to use some
of Lenin’s words, one of those ‘incredibly
swift transitions’ from ‘delicate deceit’ to
‘wild violence’ which characterise Russian
history, and may shake Soviet power to
its foundations.” In “X’s” view, this is
not merely a question of the position of
Stalin himself; at his passing much else
and many others might be involved:
' There has been, since 1938, a dangerous con-
gealment of political life in the higher circles
of Soviet power. The All-Union Congress of
Soviets, in theory the supreme body of the
party, is supposed to meet not less often than
once in three years. It will soon be eight full
years since its last meeting. During this period
membership in the party has numerically
doubled. Party mortality during the war was
enormous; and today well over half of the
party members are persons who have entered
since the last party congress was held. Mean-
while, the same small group of men has carried
Milwaukee ( U.S .) "Journal.”
“YOU GO YOUR WAY, I’LL GO MINE!”
on at the top through an amazing series of
national vicissitudes. Surely there is some
reason why the experiences of the war brought
basic political changes to every one of the great
Governments of the West. Surely the causes
of th%t phenomenon are basic enough to be
present somewhere in the obscurity of Soviet
political life, as well. And yet no recognition
has been given to these causes in Russia.
That, “X” surmises, might no longer
hold with Stalin off the scene: “Even
within so highly disciplined an organi-
sation as the [Russian] Communist party
there must be a growing divergence in
age, outlook and interest between the
great mass of party members, only so
recently recruited into the movement, and
the little, self-perpetuating clique of men
at the top, whom most of these party
members have never met, with whom
they have never conversed, and with
whom they can have no political inti-
macy.” The writer sees the possibility
of rivals for the higher power eventually
reaching down into the “politically im-
mature and inexperienced masses” for
support of their respective claims:
If this were ever to happen, strange con-
sequences could flow for the Commtmist party;
for the membership at large has been exercised
only in the practices of iron discipline and
obedience and not in the arts of compromise
and accommodation. And if disunity were ever
to seize and paralyse the party, the chaos and
weakness of Russian society would be revealed
in forms beyond description. For Soviet
power is only a crust concealing an amorphous
mass of human beings among whom no in-
dependent organisational structure is tolerated.
In Russia there is not even such a thing as
local government. The present generation of
Russians have never known spontaneity of
collective action. If, consequently, anything
were ever to occur to disrupt the unity and
efficacy of the party as a political instrument,
Soviet Russia might be changed overnight from
one of the strongest to one of the weakest and
most pitiable of national societies.
The writer concludes his analysis with
the finding that the possibility is there-
in his opinion it is a strong possibility—
that Soviet power “bears within it the
seeds of its own decay” and that “the
sprouting of the seeds is well advanced.”
On the question of checking that power
in the meantime, the writer holds there
is good warrant for the United States—
there would be other support—“enters
ing with reasonable confidence upon a
policy of firm containment, designed to
confront the Russians with unalterable
counter-force at every point where they
show signs of encroaching upoq the
interests of a peaceful and stable world”:
Even the failure of the United States to
experience the early economic depression which
the ravens of the Red Square have been pre-
dicting with such complacent confidence since
hostilities- ceased would have deep and impor-
tant repercussions throughout the Communist
world.
By the same token, exhibitions of indecision,
disunity and internal disintegration within the
U.S. have an exhilarating effect on the whole
Communist movement. At each evidence of
these tendencies a thrill of hope and excitement
goes through the Communist world; a new
jauntiness can be noted in the Moscow tread;
new groups of foreign supporters climb on to
what they can only view as the band-wagon
of international politics; and Russian pressure
increases all along the line in international
affairs.
What the writer’s “containment” argu-
ment comes to is a need for strength and
steadiness of purpose sufficient to stand
against and disprove the Soviet Com-
munist belief in the palsied decrepitude of
the non-Communist world—a matter of
“containing” Soviet Russia as a counter
to the Soviet delay and obstruction tactics,
and seeing which collapses first.
Meanwhile, “facts speak louder than
words to the ears of the Kremlin ; and
words carry the greatest weight when
they have the ring of reflecting, or being
backed up by, facts of unchallengeable
validity”—such facts, for example, as the
atom bomb and the American moves in
the Mediterranean, Greece, Turkey and
the Middle East, and also' the backing
of the Marshall plan through Italy and
Western Europe.
THE “COLD WAR.”
According to accounts sent in by
“World Report” representatives, the
European countries backed by Russia are
leading on food points in what is called
the “cold war.”
By these accounts, “Eastern Europe
has more food in sight than at any time
since the war,” whereas “Western Europe
is producing less food this year than
last.” In the “iron curtain” lands—last
year’s drought effects having passed—
there is expected to be “enough grain
to feed everybody, with some left over
for export.”
In Western Europe, with Italy and
Greece, “the outlook is very different,”
because “the severe winter killed much
of the wheat, and a wet spring delayed
planting of other crops.” Large stocks
of grain are piling up in America, but
U.S. Congress will have to approve be-
fore these can be drawn on. “The pinch
is expected to become acute this winter,
at about the time Congress is expected to
be voting on the Marshall ofl^er.”
“Chances are that during the next 12
months Western Europe will do well to
import 25,000,000 tons” of the grain
available (the International Emergency
Food Council was asked to allocate it
29,000,000 tons); and also “conditions the
16 countries of the Marshall area must
fulfil before importing these 25,000,000
■ tons are not easy.” Among other things,
• the U.S. Congress will need to be assured
' that the various countries’ own produc-
s tion will not continue to go to the black-
market, as it has been doing in huge
' quantities. “France, Italy, Greece, Bel-
: gium and Western Germany will have to
collect more grain from farmers than they
1 did last year.” Congress will need to be
i told, too, that grain now going to feed
i stock will go to humans. “Congress will
; have before it the fact that Western
’ Europe’s diet is getting worse just when
: Eastern Europe’s is improving.” The
alternative seen by “World Report” is
that “if Congress votes no, or delays a
decision very long, hungry workers in
Western Europe will put pressure on their
Governments to accept, at any price,
some of the wheat known to be in the
control of Russia.”
However, another “World Report”
study of the “cold war” indicates that,
while food is the immediate necessity, and
therefore most important, it is not the
only telling factor. The study shows
that “the trade of the Soviet-dominated
area with Western Europe and America
has been increasing during recent months,
not dropping off, and it will be difficult
to reverse the process.” The eight coun-
tries following Russia in turning down
the Marshall plan will require around
$900,000,000 worth of machinery and
other capital equipment annually for the
next few years to carry out their own
plans. Only about a fifth of it can be
supplied by countries behind the “iron
curtain” ; for the rfest they will have to
look to the West.
“World Report” instances Czecho-
slovakia “as a good example of the
troubles Russia faces if she tries to cut
off Eastern Europe from Western trade”:
Russia and Eastern Europe in the first four
months of this year were able to furnish only
12 per cent, of Czechoslovakia’s imports and
could take only 15 per cent, of her exports.
Soviet Russia and her satellites stand far down
on the list of Czechoslovakia’s trading partners.
The top three are Switzerland, the U.S. and the
Netherlands, in that order.
To keep her industries going, Czechoslovakia
needs iron ore, rubber, hides, cotton and re-
placement parts from the West. For that
reason, she must transact at least two-thirds of
her total trade with the West or suffer a drop in
production.
Much the same applies to Poland,
whose main item for sale is .coal, which
“will buy far more in Western Europe
than it will in Eastern Europe and
Russia,” and Poland, like all the rest of
them, badly needs equipment from the
West for reconstruction and development.
The summing-up is that trade will go on,
despite the political split; that much of
the coal and timber from the East will be
available to help the recovery of the West,
with machinery and the like going East;
which would amount to a win for the
Marshall plan in the “cold war.”
DE GAULLE COMEBACK.
In its first testing inside France itself
—it had had a municipal victory previ-
ously in Algeria—General de Gaulle’s
new political * party, the Rally of the
French People, last week had an over-
whelming success. It was a council elec-
tion ; the voting: Rally candidate, 2438 ;
Communist, 554 ; Socialist, 255.
About a month before the election
(held on September 28) a remarkable
change was noted in De Gaulle’s favor in
London “Times” reports. Earlier a
“Times” special correspondent had
written a couple of columns decidedly
hostile to the General, giving him little
chance of returning to favor, and sug-
gesting that if he did France would have
anything but a democratic form of gov-
ernment.
The second article had a different
tone. It spoke of many Socialist policies
being reassuring to moderate Frenchmen
“since they are little more dangerous to
the old solid traditions of French conser-
vatism than those of General de Gaulle
himself”:
Little, indeed, divides several of the Socialist
leaders from the General, unless it be the
General’s disdain for people who he thinks
have let him down. In spite of old scores,
more than one Socialist Minister is suspected
of seeing his future leader in General de Gaulle.
Pointing out that General de Gaulle
had been preaching “a more positive
opposition to the Communists and their
trade-union membership” than the coali-
tion Government could offer, though for
over six months now the Government has
excluded Communists, the “Times” man
indicated the influences likely to work
for and against a De Gaulle revival:
The gusty wind of world events blows sharply
across France. Just as a recession in the
United States, with its attendant consequences
for the economy of countries now dependent
upon American liquidity, would render trade-
union—that is, Communist —participation in the
French Government practically inevitable, so
also would an expanded flow of dollars across
the Atlantic make such participation more than
difficult.
The Marshall programme has already had
the effect of strengthening the General’s cam-
paign against the Communists. It may now
draw the Centre parties decisively toward the
Right. That the moment for General de Gaulle


tired feet?
Hot. tired feet need
this treatment:—
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application. Try
it and enjoy real foot
comfort. Cuticura
Ointment, “Soap and
Talcum Powder—
the famous
trio.
532
V# OINTMENT r
'
Safeguard the future
... of your family
... by ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee absolutely
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the complicated
duties of estate administration. Unless he has these
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint a Co-Trustee
with the Company and coifibine the first-hand personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
Write for Booklet
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond,
Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
p. W. Hixson
P. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
J, R. Pavlell
Manager:
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Mgr.;
O. N. P. Whittle
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
HIGH CLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb. Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended with
American, African and Australian Picked
Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S” FINE CUT
READY RUBBED FOR CIGAR-
ETTES, 24/- per lb. Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia. Beautifully
Blended and Matured,
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
to step firmly into the foreground again may
not be far ahead is shown by his decision to
promote his own candidates for public election.
While within Parliament the group of deputies
loyal to his cause is said to include men from
every party except the Communists, in the
country his candidates are now preparing for
the next trial of strength—the municipal elec-
tions. Events will show whether the Centre
parties will prove unable to resist this strong
attractive pull from their Right and thus pave
the way for a new kind of State under General
de Gaulle, or whether they will make one more
effort at closing the rift between the workers and
the middle class by inviting the Communists
back to their share in the responsibilities of
office,
If last week’s win for the Rally can
be taken as indicating the present French
trend, with further De Gaulle success to
follow, it would mean a wide move away
from Russia towards all that is covered
by the U.S. “Marshall plan.”
THE DUTCH CASE.
Little enough has been heard in Aus-
tralia on the Dutch case in Indonesia;
until lately even less had been heard in
America, where N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
has been one of the vfery few newspapers
to admit there could possibly be a Dutch
case. The “Herald Tribune” commented:
Dutch officials, ordinarily lovers of peace,
believed they had strong reasons for the action
they took in Java. The reasons were good
enough, so that the Dutch people, with the
exception of Communists, gave whole-hearted
support to their Government.
The Dutch contend that they faced a curious
problem in Indonesia. Some of the highest
officials of the Indonesian Republic seemed
entirely willing to sign a compromise plan to
implement the Linggadjati agreement, designed
to give the people of Java and Sumatra self-
government within a Dutch Commonwealth.
Indonesian officials supposed to be of lower
rank, including Army officers, vetoed .every
proposal that was drawn. The Dutch attributed
the vetoes in large measure to irresponsible hot-
heads. They also suspected that Communists,
who had infiltrated the offices of the republic,
were trying to prevent any settlement that would
result in honest elections.
The Dutch could have decided to withdraw
from Java, as the British decided to withdraw
from India. One reason they did not, they
admit, is that the economic loss would have
been tremendous. They also insist they were
certain the intransigents in the republic had
little support and that Dutch firmness would
be welcomed by much of the population of
both Java and Sumatra. They declare it was a
Dutch responsibility to restore orderly govern-
ment in Java and that this responsibility could
not be avoided by use of United Nations
machinery, since the U.N. had demonstrated
its weakness and its delays in the Balkans.
A more emphatic statement of the
Dutch case has been madq in a letter to
London “Times” by former President of
the Parliament of the Netherlands East
Indies J. W. Meyer Ranneft. Referring
to a “Times” report that the Dutch
people were bewildered by the interfer-
ence of U.N.O. Security Council, the
writer commented “Indeed we are,” and
bitingly added:
In the first place there is our legal right,
which we, in a world of democracy, thought
very important. But as I understand that legal
rights in these days are often not very impres-
sive to others, I put forward three other argu-
ments: (1) the facts; (2) our feeling for fair
play; (3) our feeling for the four freedoms of
Roosevelt. It is against these three arguments
that world opinion is siding and that the
Security Council decided.
The facts are clear, in spite of all that is
written against us. A revolution is taking
place in Indonesia. The governing classes of
the Dutch and our many Indonesian friends
are attacked by a newly-arisen power, a class
of Indonesian intellectuals and “generals” who
want to establish their order. This revolution-
ary republic was set up by the Japanese, who
gave it arms, and it was confirmed by the
British, who, contrary to their promises, left
Japanese arms in the hands of friends of the
Japanese.
This republic committed, and still is coni’
mitting, wholesale crime murdering, kid’
napping, keeping hostages, and scorching the
earth in a country starving from poverty. More
than 1,000,000 people died. Of the other free-
doms there was little or no question. It was
against these crimes that our police action was
directed. Holland has nothing to keep hidden
behind an iron screen. Holland is ready to
give far-reaching reforms, freedom and honest
co-partnership; but Holland does not want to
allow the horrible facts which I have described
to continue, nor do the Dutch want to be
robbed, cheated and murdered. Hence Holland
is bewildered that two years after the collapse
of Germany and Japan the world has decided
to stimulate wholesale bloodshed and crime.
Commenting on the U.N.O. support of
“nationalistic ideals,” the writer recalled
how his own country was overrun by the
Germans flaunting that banner, and
caustically asked:
Why should not the Dutch in Indonesia and
their millions of Indonesian friends be trodden
down by the United Nations in the name of
Asiatic nationalistic ideals? Why should not
this new order be established as the German
new order was established in Europe and the
Russians establish theirs within and without
their own territory?
But even when I put myself in a position
where I can understand these aims of the
world Powers I should like to ask three ques-
tions:—(l) If the world really wants this new
order, why is it necessary to attain it by all
this crime and destruction? (2) If the world
wants this new order, why is it necessary to
arrive at it by means of this shameful and
ridiculous comedy in the Security Council,
stimulated by Russia, who vetoes every inquiry
into many bad cases of herself and her satellites
and who does not even shrink from giving the
ludicrous impression that she has the right to
accuse us? Why was it necessary that this
Security Council should be'brought to openly
violating the most elementary demands of fair
play, postponing all actions necessary to pre-
vent crime, knowing, that every day’s delay is
weakening the Dutch position? Why is the
Security Council making itself guilty of blood-
shed? (3) Can you understand our feelings for
anyone acting like Australia has done?
The Dutch writer could be told that a
good many in Australia cannot under-
N.Y. “Herald Tribune."
SOME CUCKOO BEEN AROUND?
stand why Canberra —not Australia —has
acted as Canberra has done; Canberra,
in this instance, being almost entirely
Dr. Evatt, the Foreign Minister who
needed more support for his personal
U.N.O. ambitions than he received.
CANADA GETS THEM.
While Australia’s share of suitable
immigrants is mostly in figures spouted
into the air by Mr. Calwell and rashly
translated as accomplished facts, Canada
would appear to be fast getting the cream
of what’s on offer.
N.Y. “Times” has it from Ottawa
that even Britain has been contri-
buting well to Canada’s requirements,
including a batch of 7000 workers of
both sexes. They are being transferred
mostly by air, a decided advantage
Canada has over Canberra.
Another good batch has been 5000
Polish soldiers discharged from the Polish
Army which fought heroically side by
side with the British in Italy and else-
where. On their war showing, and by
all report of them, they’d be near enough
to the pick of Poland. For the most
part they’ve been established on farm
and logging work.
In its first quota of “displaced per-
sons” Canada has given preference to
men capable of working in logging camps
and heavy industries ; there is preference
also for domestic servants. In another
group were 3000 Netherland farmers and
their families, all of whom were chosen
with a view to developing certain types
of agriculture.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Franco v. Oranges, Last month s_ British
Trades Union Congress enacted a brief little
comedy on the Franco theme. One delegate
came along with a motion demanding the
withdrawal of economic and financial support
from the Franco regime” and insisting in sup-
port “We could do without oranges from Spam,
even if they grew nowhere else.” Another dele-
gate weighed in with an addendum calling tor
“independent trade-union sanctions” if the Gov-
ernment did not accept the proposal. The
addendum having been rejected, the motion
was put to a card vote and was outed by the
definitely orange-minded majority of 3,025,uuu
to 408,300.
* * * *
Petkov Expected It. —N.Y. “World-Telegram”
correspondent Hal Lehrman, who knew the
Bulgarian democratic Opposition leader Nikola
Petkov personally, wrote when Petkov was
sentenced: “On a phony charge of ‘Fascist’
conspiracy to overthrow the Communist-
dominated Fatherland Front Government, a
rigged Sofia Court condemned Nikola Petkov
to death. Petkov’s major political crime was
that he trusted Soviet promises. Far from
conspiring against the Fatherland Front, Petkov
risked his life in the coup d’&at which put the
Front in pSwer. Petkov was a conspirator —
but against the Nazis. During the war he
was arrested and jailed four times by the
Bulgarian Gestapo for underground activities
against the Government of King Boris, then
Hitler’s ally. The only reason he wasn’t execu-
ted during the Nazi period was his tremendous
popularity with the peasant masses. The pro-
German Government, already on the skids and
worried about losing the war, didn’t want to
have to account for Petkov’s death too.” In
an interview Petkov had said to Lehrman:
“Murder? My family is used to it. My
father and my brother were murdered by
political assassins under the old royalist regime.
Unless I stop criticising this new Communist
regime it will probably murder me too. Only
this time it’ll be done legally.” It was.
* * * *
The Mighty Tin-opener. —“It took decades lo
educate the American housewives to use canned
products in the amount they do today,” de-
clares a U.S. State Department research pub-
lication. Maybe it was the male who took
educating. At all events, there’s no doubt
about the educational results: “Forty-five mil-
lion cans are opened in America every day to
serve American consumers with 2500 different
products.” There are 3600 canning plants turn-
ing the tinned stuff out, with 6,000,000 farmers
and 75,000 fishermen engaged in supplying them.
* * * *
Schoolteacher Corns. Recording that the
number of schoolteachers amongst the Greek
Com. “bandits” who have surrendered or have
been captured “is astonishing,” “Nineteenth
Century and After” editor F. A. Voigt com-
ments: “Communist leanings usually com-
bined with atheism —are frequent among elemen-
tary schoolteachers in the villages and small
towns where modernity is still modern enough
to intoxicate. This phenomenon is not new,
nor is it confined to Greece, In Germany,
Hitler found a large following amongst school-
teachers.”
* * * *
’‘lnternational Blackmail.” —With America’s
Presidential election year at hand, there has
been a good deal of talk of a third party, to
be led by Henry Wallace. Most ascribe Mr.
Wallace’s part to a vengeance motive; his hav-
ing been sacked by Mr. Truman. In the
“American Mercury” Eugene Lyons sees it as
something not quite so simple: “An amazingly
bold game of international blackmail is being
played these days, in full public view but as
yet without full public comprehension. It is
directed squarely against President Truman and
the Democratic party. The payoff demanded
is cancellation of the so-called Truman Doc-
trine and return to the war-time appeasement
methods of dealing with Russia —which provided
a clear road for Soviet expansionism. The
punishment threatened for refusal to comply
is ejection from the White House in 1948.
The device to be used is a third party designed
to syphon off enough Democratic votes to
guarantee the election of almost any Republican.
The chief instrument of this squeeze-play is
Henry Agard Wallace. He speaks, as usual,
in the name of the Common Man and the Lord,
as if he had incontestable mandates from both;
and as usual he invests the strange enterprise
with an aura of embattled idealism.” Thus,
says Lyons, “Wallace has emerged as the great
appeaser, the advocate of peace at any price,
and as such has become one of Stalin’s prin-
cipal American assets.” Stalin’s American agents
backing Wallace “risk nothing but the remnants
of Wallace’s political reputation and career.”
* * * *
Denazifying Errors. —In “Christian Science
Monitor” a special correspondent reports from
Vienna examples of blunders committed in the
blessed name of “denazification.” A boy of
20 who was caught in the net of the Hitler
Youth is treated just as harshly as older people
who joined the Nazi party of their own free
will. Train conductors, postmen and the like,
“who could have been let off with a simple
fine provided they were not Nazi criminals,”
are sacked, though removal from their jobs
“is an unnecessary action causing hardship to
the entire population and serving no useful
purpose, moral or otherwise.” With upwards
of 500,000 involved, the purging has been meet-
ing increasing opposition frfim all sides in
Austria.
• * * *
Another EdSn. —“There is,” N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” has reported, “a community of 15,000
persons in the State of Washington which has
had no murders, no major crimes of violence
in the last three years. It has two jail cells,
which have never been occupied. Juvenile
delinquency is 70 per cent, below the national
average for a city of comparable size. No
one is on relief; no one is unemployed; there
are no vagrants.” Also, the city’s authorities
have controlling rights over the community
such as no others (in America) possess to any-
thing like the same extent; for example, parents
are held responsible for the conduct of their
children, and if there’s too much playing up
they and their youngsters can be hoofed out
of the Edenlike community. The place is called
Richland, and, ironically, it’s the home of those
who work in factories engaged in the develop-
ment of atomic energy.
* $ ♦ ♦
Why No War. —U.S. Congressional sanction
of steps in the “Truman doctrine” have been
described by George E. Sokolsky in N.Y. “Sun”
as “Unique in that the American people,
through their representatives in Congress, de-
clare their opposition to another country; they
renounce policies developed at Tehran and
Yalta; they announce that Communism is as
repugnant as Nazism and fof identical reasons.”
In other circumstances, such an act of Congress
might have resulted in an immediate breach of
diplomatic relations or even in war: “That that
is not occurring now is due, first, to the fact
that no country wishes to be involved in war at
this moment, and, secondly, because the United
States is still the only rehabilitating factor in
the world. A further reason is that Soviet
Russia has swallowed a terrific number of un-
assimilable peoples, particularly the Roman
Catholic populations of puppets and satellites.
Already in many of these countries underground
anti-Communist movements are active against
Russian rule as they were against German rule.
The Russians are so aware of this that they are
deporting the intellectuals of these countries to
Siberia and they are killing many of them. Ob-
viously until the Russian position is consoli-
dated in all the puppet and satellite countries
any untoward incidents would lead to increased
sabotage, insurrection and rebellion.”


HENDON
Buys a HAT
By CHARLES MASSEY
SATURDAY was shopping day in
Creeklea, the day on which all the
people for 20 miles round came
into town and then spent most of
their time strolling up and down the long
main street, lounging against verandah
posts and walls, and greeting neighbors
whom they saw in town every Saturday
as if they were friends miraculously met
in a foreign land.
Jim Penfold had brought the Hendons
in with him from Timberi after Mrs.
Hendon had hinted that they could do
with a lift into town. Then, having stood
fat Hendie a drink at the Royal Hotel,
and carried out a shandy to Mrs. Hendon,
he had parked his car in a side street and
joined the main - street strollers. All
Timberi seemed to be in town.
“Gawd,” said big, lanky Harry Vernon,
whom he had met at the post - office
corner, “you see more Timberi people in
here than you ever see back at Timberi.
They never bother to look at you out
there, but in here they shake your hand
as if you’re an old friend.”
Jim laughed. “I know,” he said.
“Here comes Mrs. Hendon.”
“Thinner and nippier than ever,” said
Vernon. “Always on the go. It would
rattle your nerves to live with a woman
like that. It’s a wonder it doesn’t make
Hendie thin. I wonder where the big fat
slob is now. Usually she doesn’t let him
out of her sight for long when they’re
in town.”
MRS. Hendon came jerking spasmodi-
cally towards them, her head dart-
ing from side to side, her arms accom-
panying her like independent attendants,
fluttering up to her, jumping away in
alarm, then hovering beside her for a
few paces.
Before Jim or Vernon could speak she
was beside them, gabbling a series of
quick questions at them. “Have you seen
Hendon? Have you seen him lately? I
was only in Stanton’s Store a few minutes
and when I came out he’d gone. Have
you seen him? I’ve been looking every-
where.”
“No,” said Vernon. “Haven’t seen him
since he sold me those lettuce a couple
of days ago. Cheap at sixpence each,
too. I don’t know how he grows ’em
this dry weather.”
He stopped suddenly as Mrs. Hendon’s
fluttering hand flew to his arm and held
on.
“Lettuce,” she screamed. “That’s
where my lettuce went; sold round the
town at sixpence each. The thief. I
grew them. Carried all the water from
the creek for them myself, and he told
me they were stolen. Dozens of them at
sixpence each, all gone when we got up
one morning. Where is he?” and she
spurted along the street excitedly.
Vernon guffawed. “Well,” he said,
“what do you think about that? Hendie’s
not as slow as his walk, after all. I’ll
bet he’s in one of the pubs now,”
They walked slowly along the street,
past the post office, the picture show and
the council chambers, chuckling as they
talked of Hendie.
Vernon turned into the yard beside one
of the big hotels. “Coming?” he asked,
and walked across the asphalt towards
a squat, square building that advertised
itself wjth the notices Ladies and Men at
opposite ends.
They turned the projecting brick
corner and entered the building, almost
bumping a man as they did so. “Hullo,
Hendie, you old take-down,” said Vernon.
“Your missus is looking for you. That’s
some hat you’ve got. Where th’ hell
(Jid you pick it up?”
Hendie’s look of consternation gave
way to a grin of pleasure.
“Yes, it’s new,” he said, settling the
hat in a different position on his head,
where it perched green and small like a
tuft of grass on top of a bare red hill.
“I just bought it.”
Jim stifled his desire to laugh and tried
not to look at the too-small hat that
seemed to add to the impression of bulk
that Hendie gave.
“With the lettuce money, I suppose,”
Vernon shot at him, and when Hendie
nodded in affirmation, added, “Oh well,
you’ve got something there to show for
your efforts. They were damned good
lettuce, too.”
Hendie grinned proudly at the com-
pliment and then waddled out of the
building.
“A good cove, Hendie,” said Vernon.
“He’ll go to the pub now and get shot
on the rest of the profits and then he’ll
be too mellow and happy to take any
notice of Mrs. Hendon’s attacks. A real
philosopher.” Vernon paused. “She’ll
give him hell, though,” he said to himself.
THEY had only just moved when
Hendie came scurrying in again, a
look of alarm on his face, his hands up
to his mouth for silence, his new green
hat slipping sideways, unnoticed, towards
his ear.
“The missus,” he breathed. “Don’t
speak. The missus. She didn’t see me,
though.”
He stood inside the doorway, poised
like a prize bullock in a pen, watchful,
worried. The drip of water in a cistern
was the only sound.
“She didn’t see me,” he said, as if
repetition meant reassurance, but as he
spoke a jarring scream shattered his
sense of safety.
“I seen you, Hendon, and I know all
about the lettuce, so it’s no good you
hiding in there.”
“Sh,” hissed Hendon, his lips drawn
back to show clenched teeth. “Ssh.”
Then, as a terrifying afterthought, “Do
y’ think she’ll come in here?”
“Oh, no,” said Jim, trying to put into
his words a certainty he didn’t feel, and
winking at Vernon at the same time.
“Come on out, Hendon,” the voice
shouted again, “and hand over that money
you got for my lettuces.”
There were a few seconds of silence
and then the voice shouted again with
an intonation that was heartfelt and
threatening, “Y’ bloody thief.”
Hendon drew back further from the
door and looked appealingly at Jim and
Vernon.
“She might go soon,” he murmured.
“And she might come right in,” Vernon
whispered back.
Hendie took off his hat and inspected
it, then balanced it on his head again.
“Green as a fresh young lettuce,”
Vernon remarked in a low voice.
The cistern dripped and hissed and
dripped again. Jim and Vernon changed
position several times. Hendon stood
immobile, achieving a tenseness that few
fat men could have been capable of.
“Come on,” said Jim. “We’d better
be going.”
Hendie shook his, head.
“Well, Jim and I have got to go,” said
Vernon. “In a few seconds, anyway.
Come on, Jim.”
As they stood beside each other the
silence was suddenly and dramatically
destroyed by an echoing voice that
dropped on them from the roof near the
ladies’ section. It was a new voice this,
hollow and booming and reverberant.
‘ ‘ I KNOW you’re there, Hendon, I can
A see you,” it echoed, and then added
for proof positive, “Standing there like
a stuffed wombat, and with a new hat on
your big fat head..”
The thrde men looked round wildly.
Jim shuffled in embarrassment, for the
voice, distorted though it was, was the
voice of a woman.
“A new hat. Where did you get the
money for a new hat?” the voice
screamed.
Hendie leapt forward suddenly towards
the wall from which the voice came and
crouched down beside the black, tarred
expanse of concrete that lined the lower
part of the wall. In their embarrassment
Jim and Vernon turned their backs on
the place from which the voice came,
but soon, impelled by curiosity, they
swung round. Above the black concrete
the brick wall stretched to the ceiling,
but near the top a ventilator had fallen
out leaving a square hole beside the cis-
tern, and through that hole they could
see, dimly, part of Mrs. Hendon’s face.
Her eyes, like the eyes of a possum in
a hollow tree, glinted at them, her mouth
opened and a resonant voice demanded,
“Come out from down there, Hendon. I
know you’re still hiding below there.”
Hendie shrank closer to the glistening,
damp wall, and Jim realised why he had
made that sudden leap. Hendie had been
quicker to realise whence the voice was
coming than they had, so he had sprung
for the closest part of the building that
would hide him.
Jim and Vernon stood beside each
other wondering what they should do.
“How the hell did she get up there?”
Vernon whispered, his mouth twisted
sideways as if he was frightened she
would hear him.
“Standing on something, I suppose,”
Jim murmured.
“She’s a rip-snorter right enough,”
Vernon said, with a note of grudging
admiration in his voice. “What do we
do next?”
They stood there feeling foolish, glanc-
ing every now and then at the hole which
framed part of Mrs. Hendon’s face. No
matter what they did they couldn’t prevent
themselves from staring up at the open-
ing, nor could they help glancing at
Hendie, who had hunched himself up like
a great rock python against the concrete.
“We’d better go,” Jim whispered. “It’s
indecent standing here, with her staring
at us.”
As he spoke the huddled figure began
to move, and gesture at them vigorously.
“What’s the matter with him?” Jim
asked.
Hendon’s head shook, his mouth
opened and closed and twisted in an
unspoken appeal.
Vernon moved over and hissed in Jim’s
ear, “He doesn’t want us to go. If we
go she’ll come in and get him.”
“She’ll get him sooner or later,” said
Jim. “He might as well get it over.
Come on; she’s not going to shift.”
“I suppose wdd better go,” Vernon
replied, “but it’s like kicking a lamb in
the face.” He raised his voice and
addressed the two eyes at the top of the
wall, “He’s gone, Mrs. Hendon. He
sneaked out.”
""THE derisive laughter that cackled
1 down at him sent a red flush over
his face, followed by a sly grin at Jim.
Hendie shrank in closer to the wall as if
he intended to burrow into the hard,
glistening concrete.
“Look,” Jim said, clutching Vernon’s
arm. “She’s gone.”
The opening was empty, but as they
stared at it a thin arm shot through, a
grasping feeling hand clutched the lower
wire that hung beside the cistern and
pulled vigorously. With a gleeful clatter
and hiss the pipes above Hendie opened
a torrent of spraying water on him, and
with a sudden shriek of alarm he bounded
across the floor like a half-drowned dog
and disappeared out the door, leaving a
watery trail behind him. Jim and Vernon
burst into howls of laughter.
“Wait a while,” laughed Vernon. “We’d
better not follow him yet.”
When they entered the hotel yard again
there was no sign of the Hendons, but
a wet line pointed towards the gate that
led into the main street.
“I promised them a lift home,” Jim
said. “I wonder if they’ll be too em-
barrassed.”
“Embarrassed?” Vernon answered.
“She doesn’t know what the word meaps;
and as for Hendie, he’ll just do as he’s
told.” t
Harry Vernon was right. Later in the
afternoon whin Jim made his way to
the side street where he had parked his
car he found the Hendons waiting on
the pavement. Mrs. Hendon was prowl-
ing up and down beside the car, while
Hendon was leaning against a verandah
post.
“Sorry to keep you waiting,” re-
marked, as he put a few purchases into
the boot at the back of the car.
“Only got here ourselves a couple of
minutes ago,” Mrs. Hendon said. “We
timed it nicely.”
Hendie, always a taciturn fellow, said
nothing. He hawked and spat into the
gutter.
“Come on, then,” said Jim. “If you’re
ready we’ll be off.”
SOON the car was purring up the
slopes and along the top of the ridge.
Below them Creeklea was glinting under
the glare of the afternoon sun, and far
ahead the ranges behind Timberi were
catching the pink tints that would deepen
through mauve to purple as the sun
sank.
Jim pressed on the accelerator and the
car leapt towards home. Mrs. Hendon
talked about her experiences while shop-
ping, as if nothing of note had happened.
Hendie was silent. Jim leant forward
slightly to look past Mrs. Hendon’s large
new hat at her husband. The hat was a
huge affair, carrying a garden of gaudy
flowers amidst which several gay butter-
flies or birds, Jim couldn’t be sure which,
disported themselves. Then he realised
why he had been staring at Hendie.
“Your new hat,” he asked. “What
did you do with your new hat? Did
you forget it?” -
A quiet, apologetic smile that was
pathetic in its wistfulness camp to
Hendie’s fat face as he answered. “We
changed it for a new hat for me wife.
I’ve still got a hat the sergeant give to
ms.”
Mrs. Hendon put her hand up to the
garden on her own head as if she was
going to pick a flower from it.
“The hat* was too small for him, any-
way,” she said quickly. “Besides it
was all spotted with water. I told old
Mason it was like his cheek to sell a hat
that was soiled.”
She settled back comfortably into the'
seat so that Jim could see Hendie’s
averted face, but Hendie kept his face
turned towards Creeklea.
“It’s hard to realise that a fat man can
have any sensitiveness,” Jim thought, but
he was pleased Hendie was looking away,
for he couldn’t stop the grin that was
beginning to prickle his face into creases.
VARIOUS VERSE.
Eagles Must Have Long Sight.
Like pearls along the coast the beaches
lie,
Threaded on headlands, wave-tooled by
the sea,
Rounded and polished, slowly, quietly,
Burnished and blazing under the sun in
the sky.
Barbaric bracelet for a continent—
This is too high to see the detail wrought
Into its beauty, the rock pools with their
caught
And stranded little worlds of wonder-
ment.
Starfish and seaweeds; young transparent
shoals,
Urchins and squids, worn pebbles red
and green;
Vast is the air, and distance is a screen ;
Eagles must have long sight to see their
goals.
Here, of my day and of my generation
In the whole glitter of a hazeless noon
Is spread a sight as new as the back of
the moon,
And only the once-known needs imagina-
tion.
I have forgotten a thousand dreams in a
city
That is lost, is vanished in airy, immense
projection
Less real than, below, the ragged cliffs
reflection —
A rocky Narcissus who finds, in the sea,
no pity.
Pounded to narrow pearls, each storm
that rages
Eats in its stone. The gentlest of the
waves
Licks with its bitter tongue around the
caves,
As lime with dreams, as minutes within
ages.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
The Price of Manhood.
Grief, remorse, shame, pain —
Small names for great things.
Common to clowns and kings,
The universal heritage of men.
*
Pain, grief, remorse, shame —
The envenomed sting of unjust blame >
The wound that sears the noble mind
Teaching the soul to loathe her kind.
Shame, pain, grief, remorse —
They foul the river at its source;
The generous flood, so proud and free,
Dies down to sloth and apathy.
Remorse, shame, pain, grief —
Let us be strong in this belief,
They make the matt, they make the
woman,
Wanting these we are not human.
M.L.
ARNOLD WALL.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68—No. 3530
Wednesday, October 8, 1947
THE GUYS FROM THE GOLDEN WEST.
“Gold Pen and Petition for Mr. McKell....Man Named McKell Mentioned in U.S. Lottery Case.”— “S. M. Herald" headlines, check by jowl.
“Are you sure you don’t come from California?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adam*
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper. House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings iopposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
STATE AND SLAVERY.
Not only the banks but pharmacies and
consulting rooms are threatened with
“nationalisation.”
Giving the members of his profession
a lead, the Victorian Hibbert Alan
Stephen Newton, one of the distinguished
band of practitioners whose reputation
has extended beyond Australia, said to
them in a Stawell Oration that “if we do
not unite to fight for freedom we shall
deserve to be slaves,” and advised
them to “tell the people they can have
free medicine if they wish, but ‘nation-
alised’ medicine would be free poison.”
The danger to the doctors lay, not in
impoverishment, but in loss of moral
principle. “ ‘Nationalisation’ may cause
some doctors to become debauched and
ahd to forsake their professional tradi-
tions,” as had been exemplified on the
other side of the Tasman. The tragedy
was that public and politicians were
“too ignorant of medical matters to
recognise this change for the worse”
when it came. And in the case of “poli-
tical leaders” ignorance was combined
with a blind belief in their pet nostrums
and in themselves.
They soon acquire a “let-there-be-light”
complex which enables them to dictate the
precise technique required to solve medi-
cal problems, or indeed any problem.
Shrewdly said, and applicable not only
to the present breed of “political leaders”
but to their teachers of the past genera-
tion, who in England were headed , by
Wells and Shaw.
Wells and Shaw! How clever were the
novels written by one of these worthies
and Jhe plays written by the other! And,
having, on the score of these purely
literary achievements, been encouraged to
fancy themselves Great Political Thinkers,
how immense was their contempt for
“British imperialism,” for “capitalism”
and “captains of industry,” and for the
early-Victorian publicists and public men,
defenders of the hated system, who
survived into their time. For John Bright,
who consistently denounced “intermed-
dling in the affairs of other countries”
(Wells, if not Shaw, was for “intermed-
dling” everywhere), saying in a magni-
ficent speech “It is riot my duty to make
this country the knight-errant of the
human race” ; and for Herbert Spencer,
the author of The Man and the State. In
that book and in other treatises Spencer
foresaw that there would be Chifleys and
Dedmans and warned his countrymen
against them. He argued from history
that peoples like the English, bred in the
tradition of individual liberty and of
opposition to Governments trespassing
beyond familiar bounds, could never
accommodate themselves to socialism,
implying, as it did, the extension of the
power of the State over the person, limited
only by the caprices of the ruling class or
gang; and that socialism must breed
hordes of officials and inevitably bring
about a new tyranny. Events have proved
Spencer right and Wells and Shaw wrong ;
have proved also that the British Empire
was not only a great historic necessity
but a great humanitarian necessity.
A darling contention of the Wells-
Shaw - Blatchford-Brailsford school of
sophisters was that “capitalism” was
another word for waste. Their pet
illustration concerned the number of
milkmen, bakers and butchers plying
for custom in the same neighbor-
hood. Under socialism, they argued,
there would be only one milkman,
baker and butcher in the neighbor-
hood ; the surplus milkmen, bakers and
butchers would be drafted into other
occupations means and occupations
unspecified. A memory of this early
socialist bilge doubtless inspired Mr.
Dedman when,- to the chagrin of Mr.
Chifley, he blithered that, with “nation-
alisation” of the trading banks accom-
plished, there would be 5000 surplus
bank employees, whereupon Mr. Don
Cameron, also to the chagrin of his
chief, announced that he would find work
for them in bank buildings converted into
post offices and telephone exchanges.
What Wells, Shaw, Blatchford, Brails-
ford and the rest of the Fabians
thundered against was regulated out of
existence during the war. “Zoning” was
substituted. The reactions of N.S.W.
housewives to “zoning”— i.e., inferior and
uncivil service and endless queues—were
so hostile that a Labor-socialist Govern-
ment, going to the country, was scared
into promising the abolition of “zoning,”
though fear of the milkmen, bakers and
butchers is staying its hand.
A small incident but enlightening to
those capable of being enlightened.
Where the failures and follies of
socialism are concerned there is no
socialist in that gallery. Leaders and
followers, theorists, planners and adminis-
trators (save the mark!), they are all con-
vinced that they know everything they
need to know and that none of their
opponents knows anything. Their conceit
is as immense as the ineptitude they bring
to the task of ruining great works of
time.
None of their calculations ever works
out right. Every service, every industry
on which they lay their clumsy hands,
however productive and prosperous be-
fore being “taken over” (and produc-
tive and prosperous it had to be to live),
straightway becomes a tax-eater, and with
parasitism go unipn job-control and in-
efficiency. And away flies the inventive
spirit by which free enterprise is nourished
and renewed, for no invention ever comes
out of “the departments that never de-
part.” Under socialism kissing goes by
favor, -and it is a game that men of
talent and independent mind refuse to
play.
Free enterprise gave opportunites and
backing to Herbert Austin, who started
work in Melbourne as an apprentice
engineer, and to William Richard Morris,
now Nuffield, with results from which the
whole Empire has benefited in many
ways. What chances would these men
have had, or their country of keeping
them and getting socialist equivalents of
their factories, had they been relegated to
the ambition- and energy-withering atmo-
sphere of a department? What would
young Morris have said and done
if he had learned from the boss' of the
department or the “Labor” member for
the district that a socialist England had
nothing for him but lifelong insignificance
unless he could secure the patronage of
a McKell? Being young then, he
would have used even stronger language
than the words which came to him when
he learned that the McKell “Turf Club”
had training and resumption rights in
the racecourse he had bought for a fac-
tory site, and would have gone to America
or Canada as soon as he could book a
passage. •
The unsavory “Turf Club” episode
brings to mind what may be reckoned
the worst failure of socialism, since the
failure is on the moral plane.
Under socialism another ’ism was to
get its knockout. There would be no
more materialism; with everyone pro-
vided for from the cradle to the grave,
with “all the good things of life” wrested
from “the capitalists” and placed in every-
one’s hands, all anti-social pursuits would
vanish. Nobody would even want to be
“a little capitalist.”
What a change from the romantic non-
sense of the doctrinaires to the ugly
reality! In “Labor” Australia materi-
alism is so much in the ascendant that it
seems unfashionable not to be on the
make. Big cities abound in blatant and
unpunished crooks, and a returned-Soldier
member could say in the House, without
even being rebuked, that “there is un-
paralleled corruption in Government de-
partments.”
Moreover, in Britain, as in Australia,
millions of people, wage-earners in the
main, are incessantly trying to become
“little capitalists” by gambling. The
current British craze for football pools
and for punting on horses and dogs (an
American magazine has commented
acidly on the fact —and it is a fact —that
the director of the dog-racing interest
draws the highest salary paid in the whole
country) is matched by the current Aus-
tralian craze for buying lottery tickets
and for betting on gallopers, trotters,
greyhounds, * footballers, cricketers
bookmakers infested the Test matches in
Sydney and were not interfered with —
the toss of coins, baccarat, pigeon-
murdering and even boatraces.
There has never been so much insensate
gambling in either country. The British
Government seems disturbed at its preva-
lence and is meditating restrictive
measures, Australian “Labor” can
think of nothing but feeding the
follies of “the workers” and filling
the bags of the betting interest, its latest
move in this direction being a Caucus
instruction to the reluctant but submis-
sive N.S.W. Premier to legalise night
trotting, with bookmakers, and look sharp
about it. This when “Labor” professes to
believe that a depression is on the way,
and gives this as its excuse for expropriat-
ing the banks. If the fear is honest, and
if “Labor” were honest in other ways,
“Labor” would be advising its people to
work faithfully, save their money and
give up trying to beat the books, win the
lottery and drink the breweries dry; but
no such counsel ever comes from that
mob.
Exploded, too, is the old socialist
notion that men would work better for
the State, as universal employer, than
they ever did for the private employer.
Whatever the reason or combination of
reasons they don’t and won’t, and
“Labor” can’t make them work nearly
as well—couldn’t, perhaps, if it tried. In
Australia if is not trying. Instead, it
yields to the unions in every way, even
when they take control of foreign policy
and claim for themselves in other fields
powers greater than those of the State
and interests more important than those
of the whole people. “Labor” is intent
on consolidating its position by sur-
rendering to this minority and by bloat-
ing what is still called, though sardoni-
cally, the “public service.” During its
period of office at .Canberra it has trebled
the number of Commonwealth employees,
and every addition, useless to the public
as it generally is, means at least three
sure “Labor” votes.
“Advance Australia!”, “For King and
Country! ” Words of power in other days,
and they have not lost their magic,
though under these “Labor”-socialist
regimes they are never heard. Not that
the “Labor”-socialists have found effec-
tive substitutes, for that is impossible.
Men can be moved by appeals to their
hearts, and to their pride in their race
and history, but not by any jargon about
their duty to the socialistic State, whether
they figure the socialist State as an
abstraction or as q collection of greedy,
vote-buying politicians.
“Britons never shall be slaves!” Many
of them are going to be slaves under the
industrial-conscription decree issued by
Sir Stafford Cripps, and many more Aus-
tralians will become slaves if “Labor” has
its way, and if its “Communist” and
fellow-traveller section has its way with
“Labor.”
Dead Sea Fruits.
Within that unspecified area of the
Southern Hemisphere in which Dr. Evatt
has proclaimed Australia’s assumption of
Britain’s “regional responsibilities,” the
Chifley Government may soon have to
draw close, box-like limits, as the Curtin
Government did for the operations of
the A.M.F. during the war. On
top of Canberra’s gratuitous intervention
on the side of the “Indernesian com-
rades” against the Dutch in Java —of
which action Asia’s interpretation can be
highly embarrassing to this country —
Dr. Evatt has got himself made chairman
of the U.N.O. committee on Palestine,
where, as soon as Britain withdraws, there
will be internal war on the lines of that
which has disgraced the new Indian Gov-
ernments in the Punjab.
Whatever impression Dr. Evatt has
created at U.N.O. or in Palestine by his
gesture, the Prime Minister, questioned in
Parliament, declared that the Government
does not intend to make any practical
contribution whatever towards keeping
the peace there —not a single soldier, not
even a defeated “Labor” politician mas-
querading as an “official.” Pakistan may
feel a little chilled at this news. Under
a mistaken notion perhaps that Dr.
Evatt’s foreign-policy speeches meant
something, it had earlier appealed to
Australia particularly among the
Dominions for “non-military help” to
end the slaughter in the Punjab. What
does Mr. Chifley propose to do about
that? What exactly are these “regional
responsibilities” we have taken over from
Britain? Mr. Chifley does not say.
The old idea of Britain dies hard among
these peoples, despite the Attlee Socialist
Government’s policy of abandoning her
ancient beats. The Australian “champion
of the small nations” will find to his cost
that he cannot speak among them regard-
less of consequences in the tongue used
by Canning and Palmerston, Disraeli and
Curzon, and only recently by Churchill.
After World War I the Americans, then
just emerging from their isolation, took
over temporarily certain “regional respon-
sibilities” from the British Navy. They
sent destroyers into the Black Sea, and
at Odessa found many terrible spec-
tacles of famine and distress. The un-
happy refugees there heard what to them
was English speech. To them it
meant rescue —that tongue in Navy
ships was the herald of it, world-
renowned. But the Americans had to
protest regretfully that they had no orders
to take any of those people away; and
they were very subdued when they re-
joined the British Mediterranean Fleet.
Do the Chifley-Evatts understand?
Yet something may soon have to be
done to save India and Pakistan from
each other, though the prospective British
withdrawal from Palestine also is com-
pounding the difficulties of both
problems, Mr. Nehru in Delhi is morti-
fied, as well he may be, it his own
people’s destruction of his plans to
challenge the White Dominions’ discri-
mination against Indians as immigrants
and—in South Africa —as residents.
Mr. Jinnah’s desperation is illustrated
by his spokesman’s expression of
longing, among other aid, for some
British troops, “whose ability to control
the communal situation is regarded
throughout India as magical.”
What is there that is “magical” in the
presence of British troops as a check to
the mob passions unloosed in India?
They are, after all, only the most obvious
badge of British rule. What India has
lost and Palestine and Egypt have re-
jected is the British moderating influence
for law, order and toleration of political
or religious differences, which alone has
welded these peoples into structural unity
as was possible. This influence has been
asserted through the Indian Civil Service,
the Egyptian Civil Service and (in Pales-
tine) the Colonial Civil Service.
The I.C.S. has brought inestimable
benefit to India. It has instructed native
officials in the principles of English law
and in the administration at higher and
lower levels of local government. It has
won the confidence of the common
people, especially among the minority
creeds and races. The British escort
officers who died last week while defend-
ing trains loaded with panic-stricken
refugees from the lust and fury of armed
Sikhs or Moslems were upholding to the
last the cause of-the helpless minorities
and the title of “protector of the poor”
which was the traditional address for the
British Sahib.
In no respect will the memory of the
British Raj endure longer among the
mass of the Indian peoples than for the
protection it afforded them against oppres-
sors among their own countrymen. Dis-
cussing in his book, The English People,
what would happen in India when Britain
went. Professor Brogan wrote:
The use of the English language, of
English political methods and vocabulary,
of English administrative practices, may
linger for a generation or two, but the
greatest English legacy to India, the poli-
tical unity of the peninsula, is what is
most in doubt.
It is in doubt no longer. The severance
of India into at least two States was the
price the country had to pay—which
nothing could prevent its , paying—for
“deliverance” from British rule. The
Sikhs are now threatening to extend the
division still further. No minorities any-
where felt themselves safe as soon as the
Union Jack was hauled down.
Thus with the British have gone poli-
tical unity, the security of the lower
classes and of minorities, and even the
assurance of national safety if civil war
should further weaken the Indian peoples.
With “freedom” have come aggravated
famine (immense grainfields “have not
been tended for a month”) and disease
and the germination of long-dormant
seeds of internecine hatred. The end of
it no man contemplates without dread.
Now Palestine means to follow the
Indian pattern in bloodshed, and may
expect the same accompaniments of
famine and plague. The first objective
of either Jews or Arabs after partition,
imposed whether by themselves or by
U.N.0., will be to expel or exterminate
minorities. British civil servants will be
obliged there also to see their work go to
ruin.
Changes in Asia are inevitable. That
was made certain by the education im-
parted to Asiatic peoples by ahd through
the two world wars, both in national aspi-
rations and in the use of modem arms.
But they are not yet changes for the
better. No more in the world at large
than in the Indian peninsula is there
yet visible any peace-assuring authority
as substitute for that which the British
Empire represented in the nineteenth
century. The British conception and
practice of self-government, along with
that essential ingredient the civilising
English Common Law, were transplanted
from the homeland to the colonies
founded in North America, Australasia
and South Africa. They made some im-
pression, unconsciously taken perhaps, on
the continent of Europe. But their
acceptance for universal usage will de-
pend henceforth upon American rein-
forcement of British influence in world-
leadership.
Though the control may change, or be
shared, the method must remain the
same. The Austrian Dr. Paul Cohen-
Portheim has described it:
The Englishman has a practical sense
which enables him to find solutions to
the problems which the control of the vast
Empire involves and to which no logical
mind, acting according to principles, would
be equal. He understands the art of letting
things and people grow and only interfering
in their development when necessary
England knows how to soften things down
and arrive at compromises, having no rigid
principles but merely instinctive inclinations
which are kept in check by practical sense.
And a German of the generation before
the First World War, Prince von BUlow,
lauded Englishmen’s “commonsense, such
as is the possession of no other nation,
with a useful and intelligent contempt for
that grey wife, Theory.'' British people
have never hitherto tolerated, in
Macaulay’s phrase, “the tyranny of small
men raised up and pulled down by
military caprice”—or political caprice,
either. These ideals of British democracy
must serve as a torch somehow to be


handed on if Britain’s leadership of the
world permanently loses force.
That it is losing force is undeniable.
Thp reason is partly economic exhaustion,
SuS from having borne the main
burden through the critical stages of two
world wars, and partly the irreplaceable
ir.« of the cream of her manhood ot
two generations on the battlefield.
That is the tragedy of our times, and it
afflicts Australia as well as Britain. Not
in our fathers’ time, as the other day,
would a Cabinet Minister of Mr. Bevm's
standing have dared to appeal to the
electors to save from disaster not the
country, but his Government
PLAIN ENGLISH
Confused and Confusing.
To the intelligent British or American
student of affairs in Australia—and there
are always some about —current politics
must present a distracted and confusing
appearance. ,
From its earliest beginnings the
“Labor” party has subscribed —at least
on paper—to the referendum, even the
initiative referendum, as an instrument of
popular sovereignty. Nevertheless the
Sydney “‘Labor’ Government” is refus-
ing a referendum on the abolition of
most of the municipalities in the County
of Cumberland, though it alters its
abolition plans every few weeks. And a
“‘Labor’ Government” at Canberra is
refusing a referendum on expropriation
of the trading banks, an even more revo-
lutionary proposal, though consistent in
a crazy fashion with the socialist theory
that everything a man earns, everything
he grows for sale, the liberties won for
him by generations of brave ancestors
and now his savings are at the disposal
of an all-powerful State.
In each of these cases the referendum-
refusing “Government” claims “a man-
date from the people,” alleged to have
been given at a successful election,
though abolition of municipalities and ex-
propriation of the banks were not issues
at the successful elections; indeed they
were not mentioned by either “Govern-
ment.”
But another “ ‘Labor’ Government,”
the one in Victoria, which is without a
party majority in either House, while re-
fusing legislation for a referendum on
bank expropriation is going through the
motions of legislating for a referendum
on the abolition of the Second Chamber
—with its tongue in its cheek. This as a
sequel to the Second Chamber’s refusal
of Supply, aimed at precipitating an
Assembly election on the expropriation
of the banks. That is a sign that Victoria,
more Scottish in its origins than any
other State, has been greatly stirred by
the threat to the trading banks, which
incorporate Scottish ideas of banking.
All the same the tactics are bad, and
unfortunate in that they have driven Gov-
ernment employees temporarily deprived
of their pay —and a man deprived of his
pay, even temporarily, is no reasoning
animal —to make common cause with the
would-be destroyers of the banks.
It is especially unfortunate that refusal
of Supply was parried at the instance of
a vice-president of a trading bank, who
only four months ago said “It is not for
this House to make op unmake Govern-
ments or interfere with money bills.”
He went on to say that if a House major-
ity “interfered with money bills the
Government could go to the country and
tell every civil servant that he could not
get his money for a couple of months be-
cause this Chamber had refused it.”
Government employees deprived of their
pay for the time being can pertinently
quote Philip drunk against Philip sober.
Nevertheless there was no occasion for
the threats and scenes which followed
the discovery that the ghost wouldn’t
walk last week. At the call of the Com-
munist Brown, secretary of the _ Gov-
ernment Railwaymen’s Union, trainmen
quitted their trains (though their pay
will not be due till the end of this week),
leaving the customers flat, and “de-
monstrated on the steps of Parliament
House.” This exhibition of Communist
insolence was followed by threats that
“next time” the employees of the insol-
vent railways would “demonstrate” in-
side Parliament House itself. Striking
illustrations of what is in the minds of
Communists and “moderates” ; illiterates
and semi-illiterates. Under the new dis-
pensation it is expected of Government
employees that they shall be Com-
munists or Laborites first ;and public
servants a long way afterwards.
Canberra Claims a Veto.
Next time Dr. Evatt domiciles himself
in this country for a day or two
he might be asked a question or
two about the veto. It is well known, of
course, that “Australia’s” policy is to
assail the veto at U.N.O, on every occa-
sion, for the assertion of a general prin-
ciple perhaps, but undoubtedly to enhance
the stature, if only in newspaper columns,
of Dr. Evatt.
Yet his “Labor” Government does not
really abhor the veto power at all —so
long as it can use that power for its
ends upon those obliged to accept its
authority. The Ministry in which Dr.
Evatt is No. 2 proposes to amend the
Dairy Produce Exports Control Act in
order to bring within its scope all dairy
produce—hitherto butter has been the
“controlled” product. Every effort of the
farmers’ organisations to learn all the
details of the Government’s proposals
has so far been thwarted. They have
suggested the complexion of the
control board, but the Government
has rejected the suggestions and
means to include, in the 12 mem-
bers, six representing co-operative
butter and cheese factories, two proprie-
tary factories, two producers, one em-
ployee, and “the Government member.”
And “the Government member” is to
have authority to veto any decision of
the board.
The Victorian Country-party executive
is receiving a storm of protests against
this Government veto proposal. Leaving
aside all other objections, it is sheer hy-‘
pocrisy and contempt of public opinion.
Delayed Revolution.
It was in June, 1944, that Dr. Coombs,
M.A., Ph.D. (Econ.), Director-General of
Post-war Reconstruction, announced that
his department had drawn up plans (these
departments are never without plans)
to solve the housing problem. This he
FROM ALL THE “LITTLE CAPEETALISTS.”
“The Chifley Government has been given a blank cheque.”— Mr. Dedman, supported by
Mr. Calwell and by Mr. Rosevear, the Speaker.
“Never mind yon peteetions, Ben. Look what I hae found!”
did at a Sydney gathering of Scientific
Workers —to the Communist “Tribune”
“go-ahead” Scientific Workers —and he
used terms which would have delighted
his master Laski, now rather exploded:
No industry is as antiquated as the
building industry. Here we have the
chance to bring 'about a revolution. It
will take us two years to catch up on the
housing shortage, despite the fact that we
are planning a building programme twice,
as big as in the pre-war years.
“Two years to catch up on the housing
shortage.” Three years and four months
have passed, and “we” haven’t caught up
yet. Left to itself, the “antiquated” build-
ing industry might have caught up, but if
the planners are left to themselves they
won’t “catch up” for 50 years.
Dr. Coombs, for his own part, didn’t
wait to “catch up.” Mr. Lang has brought
it out that five months after Dr. Coombs
spoke his piece to the “go-ahead” Scien-
tific Workers, whose Communists have
since made themselves notorious by de-
manding the release of an English doctor
who got a ten years’ sentence for selling
secrets to the Soviet, Dr. Coombs bought
a house in the fashionable Sydney
suburb of Cremorne, contracting to pay
£3630, although the Valuer-General’s
valuation was £2850.
For Dr. Coombs, who has' been absent
in Geneva on wool business —of wool he
knows as much as any city-bred theorist
can be expected to know, which isn’t
much—it has been stated that “the former
owner spent some £BOO in alterations,”
and that “some time later approval was
granted by the Valuer-General for the
sale at the higher figure.” But the rule
then was that sales of house property had
to be made at February, 1942, valuations,
and it must have been enforced at the
expense of thousands of people in modest
circumstances, families of householders
who died or fell into difficulties'.
And the sale at £3630 to the doctor
who was going to “catch up in two years
is not the whole story. The head of the
Department of Post-war Reconstruction,
for which £711,000 has been appropri-
ated this year, including a massive in-
crease for himself, went to a bank tor
accommodation and got it. To the Com-
monwealth Bank, of which he has been
hailed as destined boss when or if “it
becomes the One Big Bank? No, the
Bank of New South Wales.
Queensland Ports.
“Norther” ; Australia has good cause
to be thankful for the fact that the long
Queensland east coast is comparatively
well supplied with working
comparatively, that is, with the half-as-
long N.S.W. coast, which has but two
ports and those two within 150 miles
of one another. In the Japanese war the
Queensland ports were of immense
strategic value, and it was because of
them that the vast American forces and
their supplies were able to have sea bases
fairly close to the enemy in the early days
of 1942.
But Harbor Boards beyond Brisbane
have a continuous struggle against Big
City efforts to centralise land and sea
transport, a struggle familiar in non-
metropolitan ports around the whole
Australian coast. Carrying it further, the
boards at Townsville, Bowen, Gladstone,
Rockhampton, Caims, Bundaberg and
Mackay have co-operated in a Queens-
land Harbor Boards Association, and,
as a first move, are asking the Han-
lon Government to stop its Railway De-
partment’s trade-stealing policy, expressed
in concession rates on freight to
Brisbane. A second move is to invite the
Hanlons to pass legislation providing for
the payment of harbor dues by Govern-
ment-owned cargo and ships—Townsville
alone lost £4OO in this way last year,
though its Harbor Board, like the others,
has to pay for any service rendered by
the Government railways.
Whether the Brisbane Government will
oblige is another matter. These city Gov-
ernments are all there to slap charges on
every service they provide, to increase the
charges whenever they think fit and to
use laws to stop private competition with
their railways. Of course, the simple
needs of national defence are in them-
selves an unanswerable argument for the
encouragement and development of out-
ports, but then defence is the last thing
State or Federal “Labor” ever thinks
about, despite the scare “Labor” got in
1942.
Union Wars.
Material point in the shipping hold-up,
settled at the last moment of the twelfth
hour, was the statement made on behalf
of the marine engineers:
The insubordination, intolerable insults and
assaults to-which our members have been,
and still are being, subjected to by certain
members of the Seamen’s Union cannot and
will not be allowed to continue.
It had been shown conclusively that
the fireman Davies, the cause of the
trouble, was a Seamen’s Union delegate
and had, after discharge, been replaced
in the steamer Corio in defiance of the
Corio engineers. He was, in fact, hauled
out of another ship by the Communist-
•
controlled union while she was proceed-
ing down harbor in order that he might
be forced on the Corio’s engine-room.
Upon that matter pronouncement is
(by agreement) to be made by Kelly, J.,
in the Arbitration Court. The Court had
held previously that there was no indus-
trial dispute for its attention.
One way or another these Communists
mean to pursue their industrial war
against Australia. Another inter-union
dispute likely to lay shipping idle is that
of the waterfront tally clerks in West-
ralia. The Communist-controlled Fede-
rated Clerks’ Union objects to shipowners
there employing members of the Fre-
mantle Tally Clerks Union, which is
not Communist-controlled, in preference
to members of the organisation over
which the Communist Hughes holds
sway. Westralian cargoes were declared
“black.”
And the country has had another huge
production loss of N.S.W. coal, reckoned
at 100,000 tons, because of a new row
between the miners and the deputies and
shot-firers. The latter demanded that a
a rise of £1 a week pay awarded by the
Coal Tribunal —that concern is now one
more on the list of its sort to learn that
the more it appeases the unions the more
it will be kicked about by them —should
be dated back to include the last Christ-
mas holidays. Even the miners seemed to
think that the deputies were playing it a
bit rough, and resolved that they ought
to go back to work. Thp deputies were,
of course, incensed —as these key unions
that lay Australian industry idle always
are. The only people with any right to
feel incensed are the people of the Com-
monwealth.
Shortage of Nurses.
When the Canberra Socialists bring
down their free medical and hospitalisa-
tion schemes —still in the half-baked stage
—they are likely to meet quite as much
trouble over the nationalisation of nurs-
ing as over the nationalisation of doctors.
The taxpayers who will have to find in-
calculable millions annually to pay for
‘these “benefits” might profitably require
enlightenment on this subject—requiring,
as it probably will, conscription of nurses
—before the too-confident Senator Mc-
Kenna proceeds further.
The outrageous strike at the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital, Sydney, was
another example of the sort of trouble
that has caused dismay in many country
hospitals during recent years. All hos-
pital staffs are under strength and over-
worked, and warnings are clearly to be
discerned that the training and amenities
of service in the nursing profession will
have to be radically reorganised. In
Government mental hospitals, especially,
conditions are shocking.
In Britain a committee which was
occupied for nearly two years has just
reported on “the recruitment and train-
ing of nurses.” It finds that the whole
system of training must be revised to
avoid a wastage that amounts to 36 per
cent, during training alone, and nearly as
much subsequently from resignations
among qualified women. This figure is
for general hospitals only; of mental
hospitals “the field presents a picture of
almost unmitigated gloom.”
The report declares that staffs must be
better graduated (by means of intelligence
tests), trained in shorter time (to avoid
discontent and overmuch domestic drud-
gery in student nurses), and attractions
to the service increased (40 hours a week
and three shifts). Those students below
the level of ability required to complete
the course should be early segregated and
“encouraged to accent employment in
a capacity ancillary to nursing.” Much
discontent could be cured by removing
grievances against over-harsh discipline,
“attitude of the senior staff, food, and
hours and pressure of work.” Student
nurses should be accorded full student
status, with the conditions it implies, with
free tuition and board-residence, or an
allowance in lieu.
These reforms would require consider-
able increase in nursing recruits in addi-
tion to the. numbers needed to make up
present shortages. The report leaves tne
impression that the voluntary recruitment
of nurses must remain uncertain and in-
adequate unless training for the profes-
sion is overhauled and nurses are en-
hanced in status. “It is impossible to
determine the additional staff required
for expansion of the national health
services, apart from the wider allocation
of manpower resources.”
In plain words —where will nurses re-
quired for socialisation of hospitals and
medical services come from, and how
are they to be recruited unless under
compulsion? Answer, Senator McKenna,
answer!


n
Ik CRAVENA
CARRERAS LTD.' OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Lang, denouncing Daly as the most
impudent and undeserving of dollar-
squandering Caucus globetrotters (he
didn’t mention Amour, of his own A-
Senator ticket), questioned whether the
young man hadn’t disqualified himself as
member for Martin (N.S.W.). He quoted
Constitutional section 45, sub-section 3:
If a Senator or member... .directly or
indirectly takes or agrees to take any fee
or honorarium for services rendered to the
Commonwealth... ,his place shall thereupon
become vacant.
Trying to defend himself, the fatuous
youth let it out that he had “worked”
for Calwell’s department in France, Bel-
gium, North and South Ireland and the
U.S.A., and that in Truman’s country
Evatt’s department “paid my hotel
accounts, plus 7 dollars 50 cents a day.”
That admission alone is ground enough
for moving that “his place shall be de-
clared vacant.” And a Martin by-election
on the bank-expropriation issue would be
much more pertinent and significant than
a forced State Assembly election in Vic-
toria.
One George J. Tennent, “57, of Syd-
ney,” has been arrested in California “on
charges of mailing to a Los Angeles
address six lottery tickets and two lists
of drawings for the N.S.W. Government
lottery.” One Arthur Herbert (or Robert)
McKell, “cousin of the Governor-
General,”’ was “questioned by the police
as to his connection with Tennent,” but
was certified as “absolutely in the clear,”
after retailing the information that “U.S.
postal authorities are threatening to open
all mail from Australia to stop the traffic
in N.S.W. lottery tickets”—which is a low-
down business, anyway. Get-rich-quick
artists from Australia should make them-
selves acquainted with the constitution of
California, which, as far back as 1879,
vetoed lotteries and all transactions in
lottery tickets.
Events of the most hectic political week
Victoria has known since a “ ‘Labor’
Government” established a short-duration
record by holding office for four days:
Refusal of Speaker Knox, a Liberal, to
join his party on the floor of the House
on the ground that it would be against all
precedent. Simultaneously Rosevear showed
what he thought of precedent by leaving the
Chair in the House at Canberra to speak
as a rough-tongued partisan in the foreign-
affairs debate, which he did twice.
Leg. Council’s rejection of Cain’s Supply
Bill, aimed at forcing an election on the
bank-expropriation issue.
The Cains go through the motions of
legislating for a referendum on “abolition
or reform” of the Leg. Council. They re-
fuse a referendum on bank-expropriation.
The ghost having failed to walk for
many civil servants, the trading banks offer
to honor all Government cheques “re-
gardless of the political situation” (offer
refused) and to advance “the equivalent of
wages and salaries” to any unpaid civil
servant —accepted by a few.
Sudden stoppage—the third in a fort-
night—of all suburban trains without warn-
ing because the Communist Brown had
decided that railmen should march into the
city. March they did, though their pay
wasn’t due; and more “demonstrations”
' were threatened.
Despite the gravity of the “crisis,” when
the public gallery at the Leg. Assembly
was opened on Thursday there was only
one person present—a policeman. The
police were among those who didn’t get
their pay, and some of them were very
wild about it. But they and most of the
others concerned calmed down, being
doubtless ashamed of the squeals and
threats of Brown and his mob, who had
no cause for refusing duty.
Until Supply goes through contractors
who supply food to Pentridge, hospitals
and other Government institutions and
contractors engaged on “public projects”
have to wait for their money, the same
as civil servants ; but no squeals have been
heard from them. They belong to a
section which is used to having to wait
for its money. In N. S. Wales, where the
“ ‘Labor’ Government” runs —or says it
runs—lotteries for hospitals, hospitals
supposed to benefit are particularly bad
“pays.”
By a very odd (though by. fio means
inappropriate) coincidence, trbuble for
all three trippers has followed the every-
thing-paid Irish tours of Daly, Amour
and Kennedy, the Victorian Minister
(“Labor and Employment! ”); and some-
thing with brimstone in it may be in
store for Ward, who visited the land of
his fathers on the same terms. Amour
figured in an interview published in a
Clare paper called the “Champion” and
read by Spender in the House, one pas-
sage of which attributed these observa-
tions to Senator “L’AmOur”:—
Although our people are mostly of
British descent, they have no particular
liking for British or Americans. The Irish
are popular.
Further readings were interrupted by
laughter fromjhe Opposition dnd angry
incoherencies from the other side.
It is a pity young Beazley (Fremantle)
is such an innocent, for in manner, though
not in matter, his speeches are often
the best that come from the “Labor” side
of the House. Rushing to the defence of
Senator “L’Amour” the over-zealous
young man asserted that “the Senator
denied that he was ever in Clare or ever
gave a press interview when in Ireland.”
Obviously “L’Amour” could have brayed
imbecilities in the hearing of a reporter,
who may not have chosen to mention that
he was from Clare; and Clare is the
county with the airport (Shannon) from
which passengers fly to the U.S.A.
Besides “working for the Department
of Immigration and Information” in four
countries, Daly, according to his own
account, “made a survey of housing in
London at the request of the Minister of
Housing,” and “visited Welsh coalmines
td compare conditions with those in Aus-
tralia.” Who’s Who, which publishes
self-written thumbnail biographies, gives
these details of his career:
B. June 13, 1913. Employed Sydney
motor firm as messenger and later in ad- ■
min. capacity; later joined Accountancy
Branch, Dept, of the Navy, Garden Island,
Sydney. M.H.R. for Martin since 1943.
So that’s how he became a coal and hous-
ing expert.
When it was learned at Canberra that
a South Australian road-transport firm
had contracted to cart material for the
rocket range, which is so obnoxious to
the Communist bosses and their bosses,
the Commonwealth Railways, through
Minister Johnson, protested to the Play-
ford Government and hinted that all such
licences would be met with a veto. If it
comes off there’ll be some very long waits
at the rocket range.
It will be most inconsiderate of .any-
body to pass out in Victoria on a Friday
if. the Undertakers’ Assistants and
Cemetery Employees’ Union gets its way.
The union is demanding a five-day, 40-
hour week, with no funerals at week-ends
or on Monday holidays. By the time
“nationalised” doctors reach the same
high ambition and “nationalised” hos-
pitals close every Friday at 5 p.m. nobody
will be game to die unless sure of being
buried according to union rules.
Speaking against bank expropriation at
Strathalbyn (S.A.) Playford let it out that
he had asked Chifley over the Loan
Council table what it would cost and
where the money was to come from, and
was told to “wait and sfee.” “Wait and
see!” That was what Asquith used to
say until the English grew tired of hear-
ing him say it and drove him into resigna-
tion and insignificance. He never came
back.
Haylen, M.H.R., in the course of a
song of praise for the work of the De-
partment for Misinformation, indulged in
a sneer at the running of Australia House
under Bruce. Chief exhibits, according
to the man who represents for the last
time half the electors of Parkes, were
publicity for koalas and a picture of the
Landing at Gallipoli. ■ Of course, when
Bruce was appointed High Commissioner
there was still an old-fashioned. belief
extant that Anzac symbolised the spirit
of the nation. Haylen didn’t say whether
the Gallipoli picture had been removed,
but if Beasley has replaced it with a
painting of Eureka no one will be a bit
surprised.
Dedman has a mean and tricky mind.
Trying to defend bank expropriation? he
read what he alleged to be an extract
from the “Banker’s Magazine.”
Capital must protect itself by foreclosing
mortgages, must take the homes of the
common people by processes of law and
must govern by the central control of
wealth applied by leading financiers.
“Fictitious,” said Menzies after browsing
in the Parliamentary library, “That stuff
was circulated in the U.S. Middle West
57 years ago.” Then, though rarely given
to strong language, he branded Dedman’s
use of'it as “a common fraud.”
The Americans, who would have been
willing to share in the control of and
expenditure on Manus, have nearly com-
pleted the abandonment of that base to
Our Foreign Policy. Though Manus is
of no particular importance *to their
defence programme they were prepared
to maintain their very costly installations
and equipment, but “the Commonwealth
Government quibbled and haggled until
at last they lost interest.” That is the
“S.M. Herald” version, and it is very
mild. Nor does it mention Dr. Evatt,
“S.M. Herald” being one of those papers
that temper the wind to the
Sydney lamb, and extol the animal as a
raging lion abroad.
Cairns watersiders last week reimposed
a ban on Dutch ships, the vessels affected
being two barges that were to have been
towed to the N.E.I. by trawlers. They
made the decision after being addressed
by the Communist Roach, assistant
general secretary of the union, and one
of the chief patrons of “our Indernesian
comrades.” Sydney waterside Corns are,
of course, heedless of the national in-
terest, but it might have been expected
that Cairns men would take a more
realistic view of things.. But when Corns
come in commonsense goes out.
If New Guinea whites go on with their
proposed intention of complaining to
U.N.O. of the treatment handed out to
them by the Ward Administration, Doc.
Evatt will be faced with a poser. Will
he claim that happenings in the territory
are a domestic matter or will he ask
Vishinsky to lend him a veto?
The more they learn about it the more
Queensland operators of road transport
dislike the Hanlon Government’s new
“liberalised” transport policy. Transport
Minister Duggan has now told them
they’ll have to pay the full tax of Id. a
passenger and 3d. a ton-mile, instead of
the old weight and seating taxes. It’s put
up their fares and freights or get out of
business for most of them —tax on a
275. 6d. fare will be 14s. 2d.; on one
of 95., 3s. 5d.; on still another it will ex-
ceed the fare. To Duggan there are “good
arguments for the new fees” The “argu-
ments” are to be found in the slow and
bankrupt Government trains which people
won’t use unless forced.
It is true that “the whirligig of time
brings in its revenges.” After 16 years
The Bulletin now and then finds itself
agreeing with Lang, and last week it
found itself in agreement with “Izvestia”:
At Lake Success they say openly that
Dr. Evatt likes to hog the limelight. To
his great .regret his hopes of capturing the
chairmanship of the General Assembly
collapsed.
On this occasion, if only on this occasion,
“Izvestia” is a witness of truth,
' The Victorian Fisheries Department is
restocking the upper reaches of the Yarra
with a million trout eggs from the Apple
Island. That’s nothing. Twenty-two tug-
boat men recently stocked the lower
reaches of the same stream with ocean-
going tramps and liners and a few
engineers added a dozen more coastal
steamers, though only for a few hours.
From a C.S.R. man;
The grain alcohol distillery at Cowra
(B. 24/9/ 47) was erected during the war to
manufacture anhydrous alcohol from wheat; the
cost approximated £420,000. Oyer two and a
half million gallons of alcohol were produced
during the eleven months the plant operated.
Shortages of wheat and coal were the primary
causes of the shut-down at the end of 1945.
There is still no wheat for alcohol and no coal.
The plant is being disposed of by the Common-
wealth.
The farther they go the more these
State, railway systems tangle up them-
selves and the country. Short of railway
trucks, the N.S.W. concern has restricted
their use. This forced the Queensland
concern to cut freights to the south by
30 p.c. to 40 p.c. and introduce a quota
system with all the dreadful paraphernalia
of “priorities.” It means losses to farmers
because there are State laws prohibiting
drivers of motor trucks crossing borders,
and because those who obtain permits
have to pay such thumping taxes in both
States that the game isn’t worth the
candle. Queensland onion- and pumpkin-
growers alone are likely to lose £30,000;
but little things like that don’t worry State
transport czars.
N.S.W. sporting, social and returned-
soldier clubs, many of which were granted
liquor licences early this year under the
“McKell Act,” only to see police raids
for alleged violation of the six o’clock
closing law, are happy again. The State
Full Court, in a two-to-one majority
judgment, held that club members are
“inmates” and therefore entitled to drink
after 6 p.m. on week days, on Sundays,
indeed, any time they can get the stuff.
From first to last the proceedings cost
a lot of money and trouble, seriously
worried the “ ‘Labor’ Government” and
Caucus, and emphasised the rottenness of
McKell’s “reform” measure. That piece
of legislation admits of licences of seedy
pubs in places like Surry Hills being
transferred to suburbs which don’t want
pubs; and a big row is working up
about that.
When Australia was elected to the
Economic and Social Council of U.N.0.,
Our Foreign Policy could hardly restrain
himself;
Australia now has the opportunity to
translate into action her pledge of full
employment and higher living standards.
This applies particularly to the heavily-
populated areas of south-east Asia.
The setting up of Commonwealth Em-
ployment offices in Malaya and the East
Indies should be greeted by the natives
with loud applause.
From one who was there:
Reports of the Calwell-Rosevear anti-banks
meeting on Sydney Domain erred in the
familiar way. A.B'.C. put the attendance at 5000.
So did a Great Daily. Another made it 7000,
and the chairman, Ferguson, plumped for
10,000. I know how many there were when the
first words were said —between 400 and 500.
I made a rough count of them. When the loud-
speakers got going other crowds broke up to
come over, and at the peak there might have
been 1500 —and it would have been half that
if the Commos had not abandoned their show
to give the two former anti-Coms a chance.
The choicest bits were not reported. Calwell; —
While Labor is in power there is not
going to be another depression. We will
see to that. The world will have a de-
pression. We won’t. I have been in Eng-
land; things are bad there. I have been
in Gerrpany; in Berlin 28 people died in
a week from starvation and the people are
too weak to work. Capitalism is collapsing
and we are going to take over.
“I have been in Berlin”; and he didn’t learn
that the bulk of the city and all its natural
food supply are under Russian Communist,
not capitalist, control.
A Rosevear bit:
They say we have no mandate. We have
a mandate. Mr. Chifley asked for an open
cheque and you gave him an open cheque
and we are fill it in.
Both spouters, and Ward —who was expected
but didn’t arrive—and practically all the other
spouters are city chaps. Their troubles about
the feeling in the country! Yet it has been
deeply stirred—ominously so for city chaps.


“Lay that pistol down, Abie,
Lay that pistol down!
Pistol-packin ' Ali,
Lay that pistol down! "
“Dr. Evatt has been appointed chairman of the U.N.O. committee on Palestine."


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Diggi”: H.M.S. Contest, of the
Eighth Destroyer Flotilla, glided to a
seamanlike mooring in the narrow
space between the wreck of the Neptuna
and the old jetty at Darwin. Almost at
mice the first shore-leave party mustered
on the shaky jetty timbers was inspected,
given the usual warnings, and dismissed
to sample the delights of the town. I met
them coming off the jetty. “Excuse me,”
said one of them. “Which is the way to
Darwin?” I waved a careless hand in the
direction of the mudflats where, over the
waterfront rubbish tip, a few houses,
huts and shanties were visible along the
clifftop. Disbelief showed on their faces.
“No, not Port Darwin,” said their
spokesman. “Darwin, the cjty.” “Oh!”
I replied, “the new Darwin. Well, when
you reach those shanties up there on the
cliff carry on for another hundred yards
and you’ll be right in it.” They departed
happy. I wasn’t on the jetty when they
got back.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: According to a Shanghai
dispatch, Mr. Chang Shi-ping, tax-bureau
director at Ishing, 120 miles from Shang-
hai, announces that his niece, Mrs. Chang
Pin-wei, has given birth to boy octuplets
at Yang Pang Chen, in the Communist-
controlled area north-east of Tientsin,
seven of them surviving. Unless this is
Communist propaganda there must be
great rejoicings in the Chang household.
It can now be confidently expected that
the Celestial septet will become wards of
the Government, become world-famous,
make a fortune for their parents and
finally Hollywood will make a super film
about them. The figure seven has a
magical significance throughout Asia and,
from the Chinese point of view, their
being all boys was eminently satisfactory.
If they had all been girls, like the Dionne
quins, the shameful occurrence would
have had to be hushed up.
* * * *
“Stripe Happy”: Both Awas and
Waaafs received a fairly liberal and regu-
lar liquor issue (B. l/10/’47); at least
n.c.os. of both services stationed on the
mainland did, provided they were over
21 and their C.Os. had no objections.
Even the Awas o.rs. of a base army unit
to which I belonged were getting a couple
of bottles every week at one time, though
I fancy there was some skullduggery
connected with the issue. For a time
the Awas n.c.os. attached to our unit
were getting as much as six bottles of
beer and a bottle of brandy, whisky,
rum, gin or wine every week. The beer
was later cut down to two bottles weekly
on the pretext that extra supplies were ;
needed for the boys up north. All the
Awas, except one, were teetotalers and :
were allowed to take their week’s issue
home. The male drinkers took a dim view
of this, and it was a great day when one <
of us dug up a forgotten routine order :
forbidding the practice. Thereafter the 1
males were enabled not only to guzzle
their own share, but also that of all the
Awas, except a red-headed staff-sergeant,
who could drink any of us, from the
R.S.M. downwards, under the table.
“Findy”: Army beer and teetotallers
(B. 1 /10/’47)? Agree that A.I.F. drinkers
looked benevolently upon blue-ribboners;
they weren’t so well disposed towards
the casual drinker. Our unit put in some
months on the Tableland in 1944. The
weekly grog issue was usually draught
beer from Cairns —definitely an acquired
taste —and as our boozer was sited in a
cold, inhospitable gully below the camp
only the really keen drinkers were pre-
pared to put forth the effort necessary
to acquire it. In consequence the few
who did line up regularly could always
count on getting a skinful. Occasionally
bottled beer was sent instead of the
draught—the regulation two bottles per
man —and as this could b? consumed in
the comparative comfort of the tent each
man claimed his own. And didn’t the
habituals moan! Their common cry was,
“These blankards won’t come down to
the canteen when the draught beer’s on
and just because there’s good stuff for
“Take a rest, Miss Gardiner!”
a change they’re taking it away from
the regular drinkers.” And they meant
it, too.
* % * *
“Meekatharra”: Speaking of the long
official titles given to, or assumed by,
some public servants (B. 1/10/’47), what
about medals and decorations? My
entries are the Board of Trade Rocket
Apparatus Volunteer Long Service
Medal, the Royal Naval Wireless Auxil-
iary Reserve Long Service and Good
Conduct Medal, and the Royal Naval
Auxiliary Sick Berth Reserve Long Ser-
vice and Good Conduct Medal, No
foreign entries allowed.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: That old stage and
screen bromide the potential father who
is much more agitated and upset than
the principal party was exemplified in
real life lately in a Victorian town. A
farmer from 20 miles out drove his truck
up to the front entrance of the hospital,
and as a nurse came out he opened the
door of his cabin and fell out in a dead
faint. Nurses and doctors promptly
rushed him into the operating-theatre,
thinking he was the patient. It was only
after he had regained consciousness that
they discovered the cause of his collapse.
The expected event had taken place half-
way through the journey and mother and
baby were in the back of the truck
patiently waiting.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our Sydney suburb is at
once the most beautiful, historic and
conservative of all Sydney suburbs and
it receives the advent of fighting drunks,
suicides, beach girls. Communists, Peki-
nese and similar outlandish visitations
with that Chesterfieldian calm and dignity
which make it the despair of aspiring
radical politicians and pushing Progress
Associations. It merely raised an eye-
brow at an attempt to found a fashion-
able house of assignation, it discovered
an alleged murderer in its bosom with
scarcely a stir, it looks unmoved upon the
riffraff which invades jt at week-ends.
But at last it has been shaken. One
day last week there appeared a mon-
strous animal in a backyard, “tearing
washing from a clothes line with its
horns” (such is the condition of the world
that we have to do our own washing
these days), and the horrified lady who
discovered it at once called the police.
They, with men of the local council,
sought it in vain. Meantime, a posse of
alarmed citizens chased the thing into a
paddock. It promptly smashed down the
fence and escaped; so did eight horses.
The nags, like Leacock’s hero, “galloped
off in all directions,” and the beast
headed for our famous cemetery. This
was too much, and the mounted con-
stabulary Were called to the scene. The
beast having disappeared, the mounties
were recalled. It was next discovered
devouring a resident’s lawn. By car and
on foot another posse chased it across
three suburbs and, when it ran into a
garage, captured it with great elan and
bore it to captivity. There the heifer,
mad through not having been milked for
three days, was left in peace, her identity
a mystery.
* * * *
“Peter Ess”: The tram was comfort-
ably crowded when a woman of foreign
extraction boarded it, taking up her
stand alongside a young girl busily
knitting. At every start and stop of the
tram the girl was subjected to a series of
minor kicks, nudges and treads by the
standing woman, the idea apparently be-
ing to force the girl to give up her
seat. This went on for a few stops until
at last the lass forcibly kicked the other’s
ankle. Following profuse apologies on
both sides the foreign lady moved over
to the centre of the tram and the lass
knitted undisturbed for the rest of her
journey.
* * * *
“C.S.”: Is it something new? He was
shabbily dressed, but reasonably clean.
He was standing outside the delicatessen
window, gazing avidly. His eyes devoured
the succulent contents. The longer he
watched the gaunter his face seemed to
become. Finally a woman came up and
pressed some money into his hand. With
a start of surprise he turned and thanked
her. The man in the delicatessen said
to me : “He’s been out there staring into
my window like that since nine o’clock
this morning. That’s about the twentieth
person who has come up to give him
money.” Two weeks later I saw him
outside another food shop putting on the
same act.
• * * *
“Anketell”: Watching Sydney fac-
tories emptying* at knock-off time I’ve
often noted the vacant, slightly dazed
expressions of the majority of the workers
and attributed it to the monotony of
“process work”—the endless repetition
of feeding machines or doing the same
fiddling job for eight hours on end. I’ve
been completely wrong. The reason, I’ve
discovered, after spending a few hours
watching “process workers,” is that inno-
vation “music while you work.” Imagine
sitting or standing over a machine all day
while from a loudspeaker come the croon-
ings and wails of Bing Crosby, Frank
Sinatra and others, all of it interspersed
with cacophony of hot swing. The music
is reported to improve the efficiency of
the workers; possibly it does, but not in
the commonly supposed manner —I sus-
pect that the continual impact of it re-
duces them to a state of semi-coma so
that they work like drugged automatons
and become at one with their machines.
♦ J|s He *
“Zake”: A Melbourne man who got
part of a thermometer in a loaf of bread
(in previous loaves he had collected,
among other things, a false tooth and a
wedding ring) mentioned this to the
bakers concerned, to be told that “nothing
much can be done about it because these
things just happen.” Quite right. If a
carelessly tossed box of matches or the
baker s old sock gets mixed up with the
dough, what the hell’s that to do with
anyone else after all, it’s the dough-
man s loss? Sawing away on a recent
Monday morning at a loaf that had been
baked on the previous Friday, I thought
the grating sound made by the hacksaw
was due to the age of the loaf, but when
1 got through I found I’d sawn through
a ripe old cherrywood pipe. In a white
heat of anger 1 rang the baker and was
telling him of it when he interrupted.
Listen, he said, “you say you sawed
it through near the mouthpiece. Well,
if you get me a new stem we’ll say no
more about it.”
* * * *
“Columba”; If “Becks” (B. 17/9/’47)
lived in Queensland, the P.M.6. would
gratify his wish to get into the Telephone
Directory. Three and a half years ago I
paid the usual year’s rent in advance ;
two years; of fluctuating hopes were
crowned by the arrival of a large van,
complete with all mod. cons., and be-
tween rests on the beds therein and in-
numerable cups of tea its occupants got
the cable laid into my house. Another
year went by and out came the new
directory with the added lustre of my
name and number. But we still have to
impose on the folk opposite when we
want to make a phone call.
* * ♦ ,
C.Q. : Doesn't the Prices Commis-
sioner take cognisance of what goes on
within his own official set? Watched the
bidding at a Disposals auction in Mel-
bourne and saw a roll of secondhand
canvas knocked down for twice the price
at which new stuff can’t be bought in the
shops.
* * * *
“El V.”: An example of the loose-
ness which prevails in regard to that
highly important and neglected subject
history is the report published in
numerous Australian papers that
Professor E. G. Waterhouse, of
Sydney University, is in Tasmania in-
vestigating the history of the descendent
stock of “camellias presented by John
MacArthur [sic] to the Reverend R. R.
Davis of Longford 104 years ago.” John
McArthur did some startling things in
his time, but the gift by him of flowers
to a rector when he had been dead 13
years seems the strangest. However, the
press can possibly be pardoned when
Melbourne University Press prints —and
recommends in glowing terms—a book
on so well known a character as Gover-
nor Macquarie in which the Governor is
made to change the color of his eyes
from brown to grey, leave England on
the wrong date, travel in the wrong ship,
Hindostan —he travelled in the Drome-
dary—with the wrong captain and arrive
on the wrong date. The book then passes
from error to error, ending up by having
Macquarie make a trip to the Illawarra
in a “Nabob’s equipage” with his
wife. The trip was actually made
on horseback with packhorses and
alone.
* * # *
“Youanmi”: In my ignorance, I’d
always thought “wolf-calls” and whistles
were the unpleasant prerogative of the
male, particularly the Sydney \beach
larrikin and his ilk. My education was
rudely extended when walking through a
Sydney factory the otter day with three
other men. Most of the work in the
place was being “done by young women,
and our progress through the building was
punctuated by the “ugly mating calls of
Sydney hooligans.” Kipling was right
about the “female of the species,” but
I’ve always thought there was a certain
amount of guile and cunning about her
ways. Apparently, when her identity is
concealed in the safety of numbers, she
can be just as rowdy and noisome and,
sometimes, just as vicious as the male.
* * ♦ *
“Col M.”: In America they have
found that indulgence in the national
sport of gum-chewing has left the popu-
lace with all sorts of minor maladies.
The Food Administration Bureau, look-
ing for causes, gave samples of various
brands of gum to monkeys, who chewed
thoughtfully, but showed no bad symp-
toms. The doctors then tried feeding
them brands of “bubble-gum,” but these
experiments went on the rocks for the
reason that the monkeys could not blow
bubbles. Then came the scientific fluke
which always seems to lead to great dis-
coveries. One of the monkeys, Cecil
by name, developed an insatiable appetite
for the stuff, and instead of handing his
gum back to the attendant, hid his
issue until he had a wad the size of his
fist. One morning the doctors noticed
him looking seedy—for a monk particu-
larly glum. They found the wad thrown
into a corner. A message was broadcast
over the States: “Chewers, lay off the big
lumps.” Panic died down and order
reigned again.
WHAT’S IN A NAME?
“Sydney City Council is considering whether a
more dignified name than ‘ratcatchers’ cannot be
found for that section of its employees. ‘Municipal
investigators’ was one suggestion.”
What’s in a name? our Shakspeare once de-
manded,
Implying that it doesn’t matter a jot
What anyone is called. But, to be candid,
I think it counts a devil of a lot.
’Twould bother you to hear your business
branded
By some belittling title —would it not? —
When synonyms could easily be found
Bearing some statelier, more imposing sound.
The experts who’re regarded as essential
Guides and advisers by our civic lords
In waging war against the pestilential,
Disease-conveying and voracious’ hordes
Epitomised under the term rodential,
Hold with their dignity it ill accords
To be denoted by a word that brings
Delusions that they catch the blasted things.
They reckon it a stigma on their status,
A slur upon an occupation that’s
Rightly esteemed, to hint the apparatus
They use consists of gins and poisoned fats
As agencies for causing an hiatus
Among our multiplicity of rats,
When all they really bank on for success
Are brains and skill and knowledgeableness.
The dames who brave aerial storms and stresses
When passengers are borne across the sky
Jibbed at being designated stewardesses
Despite- the Avon bard’s philosophy.
The emendation “hostesses” expresses
Some grade a bit more posh, you can’t deny.
And if it satisfies and pleases them
Who has the right to cavil or condemn?
When undertakers deem the term “morticians”
A more impressive label for their trade,
It seems but fair in similar conditions
That much the same adjustments should be
made
To gratify the blokes who hold commissions
In good old Sydney’s anti-rat brigade.
And for an appellation rich and new,
Say, how would “antirodentarians” do?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: There may be some slight doubt
about a verdict of justifiable homicide
where a husband bumps off a spouse who
habitually puts dead ‘matches back in the
box or gives away that suit in which
he keeps a secret “plant” for his Saturday
bets, but the man whose wife “plays” the
poker machines should be a monte for
the mercy of the Court. At a Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) “guest-house” I met
a middle-aged chap and his much-
worse half, and the only thing that
could drag her away from the one-armed
bandit was the meal-gong. She’d slurp
stoically through almost red-hot soup
and tear frantically into the roast with a
speed that- must have done wonderful
things to her digestive tract, all to get
back as soon as possible to the contrap-
tion with the insatiable maw. They didn’t
go out anywhere for the whole fortnight
they were there, the lady fearing that if
she went out to see the sights someone
else might crack the jackpot. Someone
else did—while she was at the office
breaking up another quid into sixpences,
and I’ll swear her blood pressure shot up
to 280 when some of the female “guests”
with gleeful malice broke the fell tidings.
She must have “blewed” a tenner chasing
those elusive three aces. Her husband
confided to a few sympathetic males that
before he went to another “guest-house”
he’d make sure no mechanical fiend
would be sitting there laughing at him as
he came in.
» * * #
“L.P.”: An 18-year-old was before the
beak. A few months previously the cop
(then new to the town) nad caught him
•doing over a shop and let him off
with a reprimand and caution. Later he
found him tickling the peter in an office ;
the sequel was his appearance in Court.
“He was a good lad,” a weeping, mother
told the Bench, “and it was the new
policeman who was to blame. The last
copper was a gentleman. He caught
the boy at similar pranks on five different
occasions, but he didn’t try to make a
thief out of him like this fellow.” That
rocked me ; it also rocked the Bench.
* * * *
“Carnsa”: One of the best-known ships
on the Murray, the Renmark, will soon
be in commission again as a tourist
boat on the* lakes at the Murray mouth.
The Renmark was built at Maqnum in
1912 by Capt. J. G. Arnold, and was the
pride of his river fleet. Capt. Reed, who,
with A. Dennis, has bought the Ren-
mark, intends to run four trips a week
from Goolwa. The Renmark can ac-
commodate about 200 deck passengers.
» * * *
“Lancaster”; The travels of “Labor”
politicians in luxury airliners remind me
of my last flip at the Government’s ex-
pense. I was disembarked at Melbourne
on a stretcher after two years with R.A.F.
Bomber Command. After three months
in Heidelberg Military Hospital I was
considered strong enough to make the trip
by air to my home State, Queensland,
though still a stretcher case. I was / told
the trip would be by aerial ambulance,
but on arrival at Essendon my illusions
were quickly shattered —I was carried
aboard a R.A.A.F. Dakota and placed
between the feet and kit of about two
dozen other passengers. In such salu-
brious surroundings I travelled to Mascot,
where the aircraft stopped for lunch. I
expected no civic welcome but I did ex-
pect some arrangements for a meal.
There was none. Fortunately a Red
Cross wagon called at our kite with tea
and sandwiches. We took off for Bris-
bane under the same conditions and I
survived a bumpy trip and an airsick
fellow-passenger. After an hour’s wait
in an ambulance at Archerfield I eventu-
ally got under way to Greenslopes Hos-
pital. There another hour elapsed be-
fore a ward would claim me. I was 12
hours on that stretcher, and less than
half that period was actual flying time.
Of course, if I had been on a Cook’s
Tour for Chifley I nrght have struck
better arrangements; but I was only
a fighting man.
“It’s not —it's Tuesday.”
“Old-timer”: *lf those people curious
as to the fate of old loco, engines (B.
1/10/’47) had spent any time down along
the Murray and its adjacent parts they’d
have their answer. Thousands of acres
of mallee scrub were rolled flat by old
loco, boilers hauled by teams of bullocks
or horses and sometimes by a steam or
gas tractor. In odd spots of the Mallee
you can still run across the things, rusty
and forgotten, except -by nesting
swallows, and oblivious of the early pros-
perity and subsequent ruin they brought
to millions of acres by making way for
crop-growing and the inevitable erosion.
And for 30 years many of the steamers
that paddled up and down the old river
were powered by loco, engines whose
link-motion gear could be heard miles
away on clear nights. Others went into
eucalyptus mills, I saw one or two used
for pumps and fruit-graders around Mil-
dura, and still others ended in sawmills
and chaffcutting mills. What becomes of
them today I know not, though judging
by some trains I’ve endured lately they’re
still being used for their original purpose,
* * * *
“Jobber”: “Bungle’s” cobber with his
1917 coat (B. 16/7/’47) is one down in
the old-clobber stakes. On rainy days I
wear a pair of leggings and British
artilleryman’s leather - lined breeches
which “came into my possession” in
1916. The breeches, together with a hat
issued in 1914 and a tunic in 1915, go
out on the clothes-line for an airing
every fine Sunday. My sparring partner
has often threatened to put the lot in
the garbage-tin. If she does she’ll go in
after them.
* * * *
“Skyrider”: This rain-making with dry
ice is all very well in its way, but I’m
“Not tonight , dear—I'll ’splain all termorrer .”
still to be convinced that Peter Cotton’s
rockets weren’t just as effective half a
century ago. Rain was badly needed
on the high veld, and when Cotton landed
in Pretoria with a few cases of huge
rockets and told the first reporter he met
that he proposed to bust up clouds with
rockets exploded among them, the Boers
hailed his coming with joy. He got a
committee together (all outlanders with
big money), Jo’burg told him to come
to the Rand, Zulu chiefs in Natal dubbed
him- rainmaker before he’d even fired a
s h ot — an d then Oom Paul stepped m
and vetoed the whole show. Not because
Cotton was Australian, and British (even
then President Kruger was sitting each
evening on his stoep and spitting on his
roses because they were emblems of
Empire), but because rainmaking was an
insult to the Almighty. Not all the gold
on the Rand would shift the old man ;
Cotton was told to go, and he and his
rockets were put on a train. Last I heard
of him was 'in Durban. He had sent all
his rockets skyward in a grand firework
display at Richmond, where the show
ended in a thunderstorm which heralded
a six-days deluge that broke the dry
spell, filled every street and river and
sent every devout churchgoer to a series
of thanksgiving services.
* * * *
“Loc”: Someone not listed on the bill
recently caused a sensation in a Sydney
theatre, ai?d as he strolled down the aisle
he gained magnificent effect —a revelation
in dramatic technique to those attempting
to achieve it on the stage. Callous types,
seated well to the back, could watch his
progress with amusement and listen to
the whisperings of his name which spread
down from row to row and caused the
ladies in the audience to stiffen in their
seats. When these same ladies saw him
they shuddered. A few screamed ; others
were only restrained from doing so by
comforting words from their male
escorts. From his entrance to his encores
on the stage, where he gave the plot away
by exposing the male-impersonating
heroine, that mouse’s part was villainy
superbly played.
V * * *
“Roll Up”: “Keswick” (B. 17/8/’47)
omitted to mention the “mermaid” in
his list of sideshows, although it was
also present at Adelaide Show. I men-
tion it now because I once wrote the
libretto for a similar showing of marine
marvels. About 60 years ago I was so
charmed by an eloquent spruiker for a
“wonder of the deep” that I memorised
his rigmarole before parting with six-
pence for admission. The tent was very
dimly lit and the “beautiful siren” turned
out to be a wax effigy. When I criticised
the show in a clear, childish treble I was
shouted down by a burly chucker-out
ana shoved through a flap at the back
of the tent, too scared to say another
word. Forty years later I was commis-
sioned to compose a spruik for a sitnilar
racket. I wrote the ballyhoo I had memo-
rised in boyhood, added a few stage
directions, and pocketed a couple of
quid. Many of the stunts listed by “Kes-
wick” were familiar on English village
greens when Shakspeare was barnstorm-
ing; even in those' days patrons were
apparently born at the rate of one per
minute.
• * ♦ •
“T.P.”: When Kelly made his last stand
at Glenrowan, and fell wounded, folk
garnered blood-spattered leaves and twigs
for keepsakes. We of the time asked
what a higher civilised community, 50
years hence, would think of their fore-
bears. Well, the locust hath eaten more
years than that, and if we contrast the
two periods—l ask you!
* * * *
“Smouge”: A naval uniform seems to
be a target for the professional cadger.
George and I were having a couple the
other day when a scruffy-looking indivi-
dual drew alongside and asked for the
price of a beer. Refused, he edged off
down the bar and, thinking he was un-
observed, he surreptitiously bought a
schooner. Before long another hum was
at our elbow seeking benevolence, and
George had an idea. “I’m sorry, cobber,
we’re on our last deener,” he said, “But
see that bloke down the bar, there?” —in-
dicating cadger No. 1. “He’s got plenty
of cash ; go an’ ask him.” The expression
of righteous indignation on the face of
cadger No. 1 when bitten by his fellow-
professional was worthy of a Parliamen-
tarian when told he is not worth his
£5OO rise.
H= * * *
“Bullengro”: It was a nice job—com-
fortable, easy and well-paid—and no-
body, including the management, could
understand why the man lucky enough
to get it quit within 10 minutes of start-
ing. But his reason was sound enough:
“All I had to do was sit there and feed
paper into a ruddy great stamp that kept
going up and down like a piston. Easy
as you like, except it looked a bit danger-
ous —if your hand slipped the stamp
would take a couple of fingers just like
that. So I asked the bloke who was
showing me the machine if it was risky.
‘Not a bit,’ he says. ‘Safe as houses.
You just grab the paper like this and
shove it under like that.’ I saw that the
bloke only had a thumb left on his right
hand—fingers had gone long ago. That’s
when I put my coat on.”
* * * *
“Morehead”: Leisurely making my
way back to the office just before knock-
off time I sighted Gigglesmith, one of
our minor executives and my depart-
mental boss, obviously blithered, not 50
yards from the joint where we both battle
for a crust. He was bellowing at and
wildly beckoning one passing taxi after
another. Each driver, as he spotted
Gigglesmith, expertly diagnosed his con-
dition and stepped on the juice. I asked
Gigglesmith whether I could be of any
assistance. “Yes,” he said, breathing gin
and peppermint all over me. “For God’s
sake get me a cab.” After five minutes’
frantic signalling and whistling I snared
one. “Quick, come with me,” cried
Gigglesmith as he stumbled into the taxi.
“I’ve gotta be there before five.” “Where
to?” asked the driver as we seated our-
selves. “Thingumybob and Thingumybob,
400 Blank-street,” answered my boss,
giving the name and address of our firm,
whose front doorstep was now within
biscuit-throw. Then, turning to me and
giving me another whiff of gin and
peppermint, he confided: “I’m in a
helluva hurry, Morehead. Gotta get that
Melbourne contract away before five,
and, cripes, we’ve miles to go.”
» * * ♦
“Wongajong”: One blazing Boxing Day
we journeyed to ■ a South Coast (N.S.W.),
village to meet a team of hard-boiled
young miners. They provided us with a
superb sit-down meal and turned on a
18-gallon keg. We were almost all non-
drinkers, but under the gentle persuasion
of our hosts we yielded to temptation.
After we had made a miserable 60 runs
and the miners had knocked up 100 for
the loss of three wickets —with frequent
adjournments for refreshments —it was
decided to call the game off and get down
to the serious business of drinking. From
a friendly gathering the party degenerated
into a Donnybrook. Most of our boys
got a father of a hiding and a few, along
with some of the miners, found their
way to the lock-up. We were chased
to the train, and one lad was stripped to
the buff on the station just as the train
was about to pull out. That was the end
of our cricket club, a church team, some
of whose members belonged to the Band
of Hope.
LABOR’S LATEST.
“Overruling Premier McGirr, the N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Labor Caucus carried a resolution in tavor
of night-trotting with betting.”
They’re out for restoring
Those long-missing spots
With bookmakers roaring
Hoarse offers for shots
At prices they’re setting.
Once more we’ll be getting
Might-trotting with betting,
Night-betting on trots.
They’re out, as we know, for
The masses who toil,
To give them a show for
The corn and the oil
Where punters are clapping
And cheerfully yapping,
Intent upon tapping
The Ring for the spoil.
They’re seeking a guerdon
For chaps who must bear
The heat and the burden
Of day for their share,
They’re finding them chances
To boost their finances
By backing their fancies
When night-time is there.
Away with these glum times!
There’s boodle in pots
To win in what sometimes
Are termed the “Red-Hots.”
Soon blokes who’ve been sweating
All day will be getting
Night-trotting for betting,
Night-betting for trots.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


One ton per person
r
RS
; yfj*
m
■
mm
... m
Australian cane-cutters harvest over five million tons of cane in
a normal year more than one ton for every adult Australian. It’s
hard work, but the wages are good an experienced cutter earns
from £2 to £3 a day. The cane is crushed at the mills in the cane
districts and the juice is made into raw {crude) sugar.
mm
/
The raw sugar is not yet ready to eat and is sent to refineries in the
capital cities to be purified. Strict scientific control applies in the
refining process which produces a pure white crystal sugar, as pure
and wholesome a food as can be obtained. Australian sugar is sold
by the grocers at 4d. a pound in the capital cities. While the cost
of nearly all other foods has risen considerably, Australian sugar has
not risen in price since 1922. It was reduced fourteen years ago to
the present price of 4d.
FRANCE SPAIN
U.S.A. CANADA
@ A
U.K.
SWEDEN
@ 0
A recent check shows that, at
current prices and exchange
rates, Australians enjoy sugar
cheaper than in the principal
countries of the world, except
Great Britain. Because it is
heavily subsidised from public
revenue, sugar in Britain sells
at one-farthing a pound
cheaper than in-Australia.
Jm
THE COLONIAL SUGAR
REFINING CO. LTD.
The "MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop, the
“MARS” Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools. All essential
revolving parts are dynamically balanced
- - - all gear teeth are generated.
w
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.
VlC.—Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.
S.A.—Wiles Trading Co., 123 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A.—The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS.—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
ŵ
I
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Quo. op
“Mebhanitb-”
Metals
a
«
Airway Cares, In
woven-striped,
waterproofed canva*
with leather-bound
edges, are made for
flying. The supply
is limited . . .
but increasing!
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
THE SERVICE MAN
Dr. Evatt Defends Himself.
“EkDum”: One of the most humorous
documents yet issued by an Australian
Cabinet Minister—and there have been
some strange ones —is a pamphlet called
“Hands Off the Nation’s Defences,” by
“the Rt. Hon. H. V. Evatt, Deputy Prime
Minister of Australia.”
It is decorated on the front cover with
a color plate, of the Australian flag, with
which Dr. Evatt perhaps thinks some
people in his circle of admirers or ex-
admirers may not be familiar. The
Soviet banner was more fashionable in
his vicinity until the Russians turned on
him at Moscow in the same way as Hitler
turned on the Russians.
Dr. Evatt’s pamphlet is ostensibly for
the purpose of explaining the Act to
protect the Central Australian rocket
range from sabotage. The first sub-
heading is “Labor Movement Calls Pro-
paganda Bluff.”
The bluff that has been called is sup-
posedly that of the Communist party,
which has been exorcised by the Federal
executive of the Labor party in a reso-
lution which says: —
It is apparent that the propaganda re-
cently issued by the Communist party in
connection with this undertaking is for
“If they spot you , Liz , say you thought it was the Manly ferry!”
the sole purpose of defeating the Australian
Defence Policy in the interests of a foreign
Power.
Dr. Evatt declares that the Communist
attempt at a boycott of the rocket-range
project immediately “fizzled out,” though
it constituted “a very ugly incident, which
has undoubtedly opened many eyes, to
the menace to Australian defence interests
involved in a facile acceptance of pro-
posals put forward by members of the
Communist party.”
For (the doctor says), although the
Central Committee of the party late
in the day openly dissociated the party
from the boycott move, the evidence of
its Communist origin is too strong to
put aside.
Dr. Evatt quotes the Communist paper
“Tribune” of November 29, 1946, as
publishing the following statements by
one Alfred Watt, secretary of the Com-
munist party in South Australia and
member of the Central Executive of the
Communist party:
Australia must not become an imperialist
armed camp like Palestine. If Australia’s
policy was one of peace, of friendship with
all peaceful nations, of loyalty to the
United Nations Charter, we would have
disarmament, lower taxes, higher living
standards. Workers and farmers of the
dry North must fight for peace. They must
demand that the rocket range be scrapped
and that the extension of the pipeline must
be made to their own towns for their own
peaceful needs.
The same newspaper, the doctor de-
clares, on March 28 said this:
The rocket plan is part of the Attlee-
Bevin and Chifley-Evatt policy of turning
Australia into an Imperialist Power in any
future war fought with guided rockets and
atomic bombs.
Dr. Evatt Removes a Ban
Dr. Evatt was the man who took the
ban off the Communist party at the end
of 1942, exacting from them assurances
of good behavior which the party has
never carried out and which, as he should
have known or suspected, it never in-
tended to carry out.
Dr, Evatt is a member of the Govern-
ment which immediately after the ban
was removed appointed a Trade Union
Advisory Panel to advise it on war mea-
sures, which the Prime Minister con-
suited regularly and confidentially—Mr.
Wells of the Coalminers says that he
ev£ n told its members of impending mili-
tary operations weeks in advance.
This panel included at least four
members of the Central Committee of
the Communist party and a total of eight
representatives of Communist-controlled
groups.
4 It operated throughout the war from
the moment the ban was removed from
the Communist party,
- . _
Communists Control Labor
Dr. Evatt moreover belongs to the
N. S. Wales branch of the Labor party,
In 1940 Mr. Beasley, who was soon to
become his colleague, declared in the
House of Representatives (Hansard, May
2, 1940, page 490);
We feel it our duty to inform honorable
members and the people of their electorates
Sloped, 1 class'association
with our bwn political organisation we are
satisfied that the Communist party now
controls the policy and domestic affairs of
the Labor in New South Wales,
It was from the executive elected by
this conference that Dr. Evatt received
his endorsement at the 1940 election.
The Rudkin Case
A month after the Communists cap-
tured the 1940 N.S.W. Labor Conference,
members of their Westralian branch
were arrested in W.A., convicted of
offences against the Security Act, sent
to jail and recommended for internment
for the period of the war.
One, Rudkin, was found to be red-
anting the A.L.P. to get information for
Communist-party headquarters, which,
when searched, was discovered to be
chockful of details of Westralian military
units and defence and to be in communi-
cation, via Moscow or somewhere, with
Comintern headquarters in Vienna.
Dean, branch secretary of the Com-
munist party, had issued an official cir-
cular which began:
Comrades: The Communist International
warns that the war may spread rapidly to
the Eastern Mediterranean, the Balkans and
the Pacific. The Comintern message says
that workers must demand the return of
their husbands, brothers and sons. The
party must fight for the return of Aus-
tralian troops Australia is controlled by
the lackeys of the incompetent bloody rulers
of Britain, and Australians must be brought
home.
The A.I.F. at the time was heavily in-
volved with the Italians, and Rommel was
about to enter the field. Withdrawal of
the Australians would have meant the
loss of Suez.
It was immediately after the prosecu-
tion of the Perth men that the Communist
party was suppressed. Pointing at Rud-
kin in the dock, Crown counsel said be-
fore he was sentenced: “Your Worship
has heard of the Fifth Column There
it is.”
“Sneaking Jackal”
But Rudkin was soon at large, and in
due season “Labor” gave him a Govern-
ment job. And he took to writing. One
of his lucubrations throws light on the
attitude of the Communists active in


Statutory Notice to Next-of-kin.
RE THOMAS CECIL PITNEY late of 884 Stanley
Street South Brisbane in the State of Queensland
labourer deceased. —NOTICE is hereby given that all
persons including MARTIN FRENEY claiming to
be next-of-kin of the abovenamed Thomas Cecil
Freney late of 884 Stanley Street South Brisbane in
the State of Queensland deceased who died on or
about the eighth day of June 1947 a.d. at 884 Stanley
Street South Brisbane in the said State are hereby
required to forward proof of their relationship to
the PUBLIC CURATOR Brisbane on or before the
Twenty-fifth day of March 1948 and that after the
expiration of the lastnamed date the Public Curator
will proceed to distribute the assets of the said de-
ceased amongst the parties entitled thereto having
regard only to the claims of which he shall then
have had notice. Dated this Twenty-fifth day of
September, 1947. —ALAN FORD, Public Curator,
Brisbane.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO ELWYN RANDAL HEPPLE.—TAKE NOTICE
that ELVIRA KATHLEEN HEPPLE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1768 of 1947 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 10th day of December
1947 and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge
from A. ALISTER JOHNSON & MeDONALD, Soli-
citors, of 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN
CORCORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall, 2 > 7 ork
Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES IN EQUITY.
No. 1360 of 1941.
IN THE MATTER OF AUSTRALIA-ITALIA SHIP-
PING COMPANY LIMITED (In Liquidation) and
IN THE MATTER OP THE COMPANIES ACT 1936.
NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
TAKE NOTICE that the Fifth, Sixth, Seventh and
Eighth Accounts Current with Second Plan of Dis-
tribution in the above matter showing payment of
a Dividend of 20/- in the £ on one . Preferential
Claim, and a second and final Dividend of 18/- in
the £ on all proved concurrent Claims, carrying for-
ward a balance of £473/18/11 to the credit of the
Company are now filed in the Office of the Master
in Equity, Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
for the inspection of persons interested; AND notire
is hereby given that such Accounts and Plan will
be submitted to the Master in Equity for confirma-
tion on Wednesday the Fifth day of November, 1947,
at 11 a.m., if not previously objected to.
The amount shown to be due to each of the
creditors in such Plan will be paid by the Official
Liquidator at his office after the expiration of two
clear days from the confirmation of the said Plan.
DATED the 29th day of September, 1947.
H. W. MACKISAOK, Official Liquidator,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Because they appreciate
CaD staiK own
blend of fine
i
Virginia leaf, men and
women who can
afford the best are
enthusiastic
Capstan
smokers.
■ s K
■ r: : i M ■ -V
W* - &
<f ft- ! v
That*s why if s always
TIME FOR A CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURITE CIGARETTE
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
A
m
, : :¥
PRESTIGE
Your hat expresses taste and reflects
your personality. The things that
count in a hat —Distinction, Smart-
ness, Service, Comfort, Style—are
all embodied in the akubra.
Look your best —it always pays.
AKUBRA
HATS OF
Q.UAIITY
attacking the rocket-range project whose
campaign Dr. Evatt calls an ugly inci-
dent.” Rudkin wrote in a paper called
“Focus” in April:
The only industrial countries one can
safely say are not capable of producing the
atomic bomb are Britain and Canada,
which have introduced so much restrictive
legislation to preserve the secret they
haven’t got (Truman accepted all the help
he could get from British Empire scientists,
but was very careful not to let them into
any of the engineering secrets) that they
have brought atomic research practically
to a standstill in their own territories. This
amazing metamorphosis of the British lion
into a sneaking jackal humbly accepting
whatever scraps the lions of Wall-street
offer Naturally politicians as dumb as
Truman and Bevin are dumb enough to try
to use compulsion on scientists, and in an
attempt to terrorise them have imposed
heavy jail sentences on two leading
physicists, Dr. Nunn May and Dr. Charles
Boyer, for carrying out perfectly normal
scientific activity of discussing their work
with scientists of a nation to which Mr.
Churchill, when Prime Minister, pledged
all possible scientific and technical assist-
ance Scientists are getting tired of churn-
ing out discoveries to be used by brasshats,
crooked politicians and mud-brained
profiteers for their anti-social ends....
Dr. Evatt knows Rudkin’s record, since
Archie Cameron, M.H.R., called for
the papers in May and Dr. Evatt laid
them on the table of the House.
But despite this, neither he nor the
Government has taken any steps about
the fact that Rudkin, in defiance of the
provisions of soldier-preference legisla-
tion, has been employed in the C.S.I.R. in
a scientific section which deals with wood
plastics and materials of great importance
to aeroplane construction.
Defend Dr. Evatt!
A secondary examination of Dr. Evatt’s
pamphlet shows that it is not actually
designed as a defence of the Government
against the Communists. It is meant to
be a defence of Dr. Evatt and the Gov-
ernment against the growing pressure of
public opinion in favor of the suppres-
sion of the Communist party, which has
already been suppressed in Canada, the
United States and South Africa.
The pith of what Dr. Evatt really has
to say is in the following paragraphs of
his pamphlet;
In this situation — i.e., the pursuit by the
Communist party of “a political and in-
ternational objective” in attacking the atom
bomb project—demands were renewed in-
side and outside Parliament that the Gov-
ernment should ban the Communist party,
i.e., should declare it an illegal organisa-
tion. Extremist variations of this demand
were that the leading members of the Com-
munist party should be deported from Aus-
tralia,'and that known Communists should
be prohibited from associating with each
other by a law similar to the N. S. Wales
Consorting Act dealing with convicted
criminals. But a Labor Government, hold-
ing fast to the principles of democratic
freedom of political association, would not
have been justified in yielding to these de-
mands. To have followed those extremist
courses would have been to reach the point
which Germany reached under Hitler. It
would have tended to introduce Fascism
and destroy democracy.
The Young Lady of Riga
What counts probably with Dr. Evatt
much more is that it might also have de-
stroyed the Labor party, nearly all of
whose major trade-unions —watersiders,
seamen, coalminers, iron and metal
unions, building unions, railwaymen,
clerks and others —are Communist-led,
some of their general secretaries sitting on
the Central Committee of the Communist
party.
It is the representatives of these unions
in the annual Labor conferences who
settle Labor policy, re-form the platform
and elect the executives who control
Labor Parliamentarians and their policies.
More than once the “Labor” Govern-
ment has had to buy off the Communist
party to prevent it taking over the N.S.W.
Labor party (Dr. Evatt included) alto-
gether.
One example was at the 1943 A.L.P.
Conference. That conference was full of
Thorntons and their offsiders. It was an-
nounced that they proposed to demand a
United Front.
Just before the conference opened the
Communist party suddenly was given
licences to republish four official organs
banned in 1940. It was given paper to
allow it to print these journals more
frequently and in larger sizes than in
1939, all other papers being reduced to
bare bones. It was also given paper to
fight the 1943 election, at which it was
allowed to put up 20ft. posters at will,
though all other people were compelled
to keep down their election posters to
ten inches by six. The granting of these
licences, as the chairman of the A.P.A.
bitterly complained, was in direct con-
travention of the agreement with the
voluntary paper pool.
The Communist party at that time was
also granted a shoal of telephone connec-
tions when at least 40,000 private appli-
cants for telephones were fobbed off with
“no-can-do” replies.
And by a strange coincidence several
Communists forgot to be present at the
“Labor Conference” when the vote was
taken on the admission of the Commu-
nist-party members. Labor “moderates”
triumphed by 10 votes only, the motion
having been moved by “Labor” delegate
Ernest Thornton, member of the Central
Committee of the-Communist party and
boss of the Ironworkers.
Comrade John Fisher, Canberra corre-
spondent of the Communist “Tribune,”
in 1940 described Dr. Evatt as a “liberal.”
Dr. Evatt afterwards appointed this
young man “press to the Austra-
lian, Legation at Moscow. The fellow
travelled to Moscow through Japanese
territory by virtue of Russian protection
while men of his own®age were dying
like flies in the Buna campaign.
Dr. Evatt, from his views on “the
principles of democratic freedom of
political association,” has apparently be-
come even more “liberal” than when Mr.
Fisher knew him.
He is becoming so “liberal” that his
friends must be on tenterhooks lest he
suddenly announce that the “Labor”
Government was wrong in yielding to the
“extremist demands” to suppress Dr.
Goebbels’s “political freedpm of associa-
tion” and that the suppression of Hifo-
hito’s liberty has “tended to introduce
fascism and destroy democracy.”
The London “Sunday Observer,”
usually well informed, declares that the
British forces are to be reduced by
450,000, bringing the total down to
750,000 —R.N., Army, R.A.F. and ancil-
laries —by March 31, 1949. A staggering
cut, and one section of it will give Aus-
tralia’s Mr. Chambers a headache. For
the 2000 men in the Army section of
8.C.0.F. in Japan, with 2500 of the
R.A.F. who form the bulk of the British
Commonwealth air forces there and 150
R.N. men, will be withdrawn. To fill this
gap, if it is to be filled, Australia will
have to increase the size of its “perman-
ent Army” by 25 per cent, and of the
R.A.A.F. by about 50 per cent. Even now
it has difficulty in keeping the military
force up to a decent standard.
* * * *
Mr. Chifley, through his private secre-
tary, told a Sydney journal’s “columnist”
last week that the fund subscribed by the
public to build a cruiser to replace
H.M.A.S. Sydney, of glorious memory,
was too little for the purpose. It was a
beggarly £400,000 Liverpool raised
£3,000,000 in a week for naval shipbuild-
ing about the same time, and Liverpool
is considerably smaller than Sydney. The
intriguing points of the statement, how-
ever, were (1) that the money is “safe” in
a trust fund and (2) that in any event the
Government is “waiting for the results of
the Bikini tests.” Yet there don’t seem
to be any cruisers in its five-year pro-
gramme—“no replacements are contem-
plated.” Anyway the Government did
not wait for the results of Bikini in the
case of the two small aircraft-carriers
on which it proposes to squander millions
—without any knowledge of what the
next five years will bring in changed de-
sign and defences. Incidentally, one of
the innocent Australia First men gaV'e
£l5O of the H.M.A.S. Sydney money just
before he was interned.


w
ŵ
THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
WHEN IT’S AN EXIDE YOU START!
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY,. LTD.. 44 BRIDGE ST.. SYDNEY
■mm mtmmmmmmmm mi 1 m hiimihiiimh mini mini— mi 1 """a— x4.24.47
PERSONAL ITEMS
Sir Winston Dugan, who holds the
duration record as State Governor, having
started in South Australia in 1934, is
bidding farewell to Victoria, where he
has functioned in the office since 1939.
At a presentation by the Catholic com-
munity the Coadjutor Bishop of Sand-
hurst, Most Rev. B. D. Stewart, remarked
that his departing Excellency had qualities
which the church looked for before it
raised anyone to the dignity of a saint.
With a twinkle in his eye, Lud Mayor
Connelly interpolated: “I have known
Sir Winston Dugan for many years, and
intimately since I have been in office, and
believe me, he’s no saint.” “The best
reward of all is that I have become a
saint, much against the Lord Mayor’s
wishes,” commented Sir Winston later.
John Foster Dulles, labelled a war-
monger by Vishinsky, has a family back-
ground of diplomacy. His grandfather
John W. Foster was Secretary of State
under President Harrison, an uncle,
Robert Lansing, held the same office
under Woodrow Wilson, and Dulles him-
self was .secretary to the U.S, delegation
to the Hague Conference in 1907 when
he was only 19, After graduating from
Princeton he studied international law at
the Sorbonne and joined the law firm of
Sullivan and Cromwell, of which he is now
the senior partner. In 1917 President Wil-
son sent him to Panama to arrange a line-
up of Central American States for the de-
fence of the Canal Zone, and at the Peace
Conference he helped to frame the repara-
tions and financial clauses. In 1919 he
was a member of the Supreme Economic
Council and American member of the
Reparations Commission. Meanwhile his
legal business grew, but it couldn’t keep
him home—to Poland to advise on
monetary stabilisation, to Berlin for debt
conferences, to the Far East to study
economic and political conditions were
a few of his assignments. Since the
’Frisco conference in 1945 he has been
almost continually at the conference table,
first as adviser to Jimmy Byrnes and later
to Marshall, whom he accompanied to
Moscow. Vishinsky notwithstanding, if
the Republicans Win the next election,
Dulles will probably be the third of his
family to become U.S. Secretary of State.
John Elliot Monfries, farewelled recently
in Hobart on his retirement as Deputy-
Director of Posts and Telegraphs, joined
the S.A. Postal Service in 1889 when
Charles Todd of Overland Telegraph
fame was P.M.G. He began as telegraph
messenger at Gumeracha, his picturesque
hometown in the Adelaide Hills, and
before he sank his roots in Hobart
soil 20 years ago he had been
Chief Clerk at Adelaide and Sydney
G.P.Os. and S.A. representative on
the Central Staff Administration in
Melbourne. Hobart knew him as an
efficient and courteous public servant and
a keen golfer and bowler, but in his
younger days he played Sheffield Shield
cricket for Victoria and repped for Vic-
toria and S.A, at lacrosse.
English cedar and Broken Hill silver
smelted at Port Pirie are being used in
the making of South Australia’s wedding
gift to the Princess. R. Hook, who has
been working at his craft for 40 years,
has made, the cabinet which will contain
the silver tea and coffee service designed
by F. Millward Grey, principal of the
Adelaide School of Arts and Crafts, and
fashioned by Martin and William Ken-
wrick. The cedar used in the cabinet
was brought out from England over 90
years ago and formed part of the Press
gallery in the old Legislative Council
building. In the making of the gift the
three services were represented—Mill-
ward Grey is a Digger, one of the Ken-
wricks served with the R.A.N. and the
other with the R.A.A.F.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:
Retired after 50 years’ service, Aubrey Robert
Amery was from 1931 custodian of this paper’s
cashbox and his signature on the “Thank
Heaven That’s Paid!” cheque/was known to
thousands of contributors. Born in the Old
Kent-road in 1880—the year The Bulletin was
founded - Aubrey always retained much of
the Londoner’s chirpiness and quick move-
ments, and although he became a dinkum
Australian he never lost his strong love for
his homeland. Coming to Australia as a child
he was educated at St. Andrew’s Cathedral
Choir School, Sydney, and in 1897, a year
after The Bulletin moved from 24 Pitt-street
to 214 George-street, joined the staff as a
junior clerk. J. F. Archibald was then editor,
William Macleod general manager, and George-
street North the centre of Sydney Bohemian
life. Outside cashier William Brennan’s office
stood the old Bulletin bench upon which
generations of Australian writers have sat at
“AUB."
one time or another to gossip and discuss
dodges to raise the wind. It was there that
Aubrey first saw Lawson, Quinn, Daley, Broom-
field and a host of others. During World
War I Aubrey enlisted in the A.I.F. and. served
with the 3rd Field Artillery Bde. in France.
His flair for figures earned him a job as pay-
sergeant, a job that his son Bert was to per-
form nearly 30 years later with another artillery
regiment in New Guinea. During World War
II he served in the V.D.C. Returning in 1919
to the “round eternal of the cash book and
the journal” at George-street, Aubrey took over
from Tom McMahon as Secretary and
Accountant when The Bulletin moved further
up the, street to its present address. In a
mock “Red Page” review in this year’s
“Bulletin Picnic Annual” there was this brief
notice: “Modern Micawbers, by A. R. Amery.*
A long experience of cadgers and lug-biters
qualifies the author to write this candid study
of chronic borrowers.” Like Tom McMahon,
Brennan and Broadbent, the paper’s first cashier,
Aubrey was always the first port of call when-
ever a Bulletin writer or artist ran short of
cash. Gardener, horseman and singer and still
in good physical condition, he carries the’good
wishes of all his colleagues and hundreds of
contributors into the happy retirement he de-
serves after a lifetime juggling with figures.
His brisk step and chirpy whistle will be missed.
Old hands say neither characteristic has altered
in half a century; both were in evidence when
Scorfield caught him in mid-flight and full
blast a few minutes before he handed over his
keys.
Head of the Neuro-Surgical Depart-
ment at Dunedin Hospital, M.L., and
lecturer in that science at the Otago
Medical School, Murray Falconer, has
been appointed a Hunterian professor by
the English Royal College of Surgeons.
This is in recognition of his work in
connection with the intervertebral disc,
a subject on which he will lecture to the
Royal College of Surgeons on his visit
to the Old Country in November. He is
the fourth Maorilander to win the dis-
tinction, others being Sir Archibald
Mclndoe, A, R. Mowlam and W. B.
Highet.
“T.P.”: Educationist Joseph Hocking,
B. dead in Melbourne at 86, had
long service in the Education Depart-
ment, When an inspector, he was chosen
by director Frank Tate to open the
continuation school in the old Model
Buildings in Spring-street, the forerunner
of the present chain of high schools. In
the early ’Bo’s, when the free, secular and
compulsory system was in its babyhood,
as teacher of a little country school he
came into prominence by settling a
point at issue over the “secular” por-
tion of the Act. A Wesleyan lay
preacher and theological student, he
ran evening classes in his school resi-
dence for advanced Bible study. A peti-
tion, signed by objectors, was forwarded
to the Minister for Education, Professor
C. H. Pearson, who replied, “I have yet
to learn that an Australian citizen can-
not erect an altar in his own home for
the worship of his God!”
“Muralagi”; When Archbishop Halse,
of Brisbane, visited Torres Strait recently,
he was presented with a pastoral staff of
native craftsmanship, in carved “wongai”
wood inlaid with mother-o’-pearl. The
Forres Strait islanders have their own
native churchwardens and clergy, and an
island priest sits with white members on
the Diocesan Council. Recent legislation
now enables them to send colored lay
representatives to Synod, where they will
exercise a vote equally with white repre-
sentatives: ' It’s only about 70 years since
their interests in “counting heads” were
concerned with them as trophies severed
from their owners’ necks.
T. G. Patterson, re-appointed Federal
secretary of the Australian Automobile
Association at its conference in Perth, is a
Scottish-born Melburnian with a Gaelic
facility at debating. He kept Melbourne
amused for weeks over a controversy with
Bell, Chairman of the Tramways Board,
anent the relative virtues of trams and
buses. _He gets plenty of practice. He is
Victorian champion in debating (singles)
and was a runner-up in the national
doubles championship. In his youth he
was international schoolboy at Soccer.
During the rfecent war he was Assistant
Commonwealth. Controller of Catering
and Accommodation, Controller of
Materials for the Aircraft Corporation
and a member of the War Roads Trans-
port Committee. And Patterson con-
ducted a nationwide survey of welfare
and housing. Photography and industrial,
welfare are his hobbies when he gets
time off from debating.
' “Weff” dips his pen in Burgundy:
Most of the leaders of a very fine industry
are descendants of vignerons who planted their
first vines a hundred years ago and more:
Seppelts, Hardys, Penfolds, Reynells, Linde-
mans, Smiths, Hamiltons, Gramps. The last-
named family, famed for the Orlando wines,
celebrated its centenary this month with the
descent of nearly a thousand guests upon its
vineyards at Rowland Flat (S.A.). Founder of
the Orlando vineyards, Johann Gramp came
from Europe in 1837 at 18. After a short
sojourn on Kangaroo Island he moved to
Hope Valley, near Adelaide, where he
took up land. About the time he settled
in Hope Valley, John Reynell planted
cuttings from the Camden (N.S.W.) vineyard
of William Macarthur, author of the book
On the Culture of the Vine (1844), and made
the first S. Aus. wine. Ten years later Johann
Gramp moved to Jacob’s Creek in the Rowland
Flat district, about a mile from the present
Orlando vineyards. Here, in 1847, he planted
his first vines, and three years later sampled
his first vintage, a hogshead of a hock type, later
known as Carte Blanche. In the same year (1850)
his son Gustav was born. For some years wine
was made only on a small scale, crushing and
pressing being done by hand, but in 1877,
when Gustav took over from his father, the
scope of operations was considerably widened.
Gustav removed the winery to its present site,
increased the vineyard area and added to the
storage cellars. So it went on till 1912, when
the business was converted into a limited corn-
ORLANDO GRAMP.
pany. Gustav’s two sons, Hugo and Fred,
developed it into one of the largest wine-
producing concerns in Australia. But on October
25, 1938, Hugo, who had been managing
director for 14 years, was killed when the
Douglas airliner Kyeema crashed in the
Dandenongs. Among the 18 victims were
Thomas Hardy, head of Tintara, and Sidney
H. Smith, of Yalumba; all three under 50, and
each a grandson of the founder of the vine-
yards he controlled. Hugo was succeeded by
his only brother, Fred—baptised Richard Alfred
—here . pictured by Coventry. , The fourth
generation of the family is represented by
Sidney, son of Fred, and Colin, son of Hugo.
Retiring after 30 years in the R.A.N.,
Captain-Engineer G. I. D. Hutcheson,
Director of Engineering at the Navy
Office, Melbourne. Born at Coleraine.
(Vic.), and educated at Adelaide Uni-
versity, he entered the R.A.N. as a sub-
lieutenant in 1918. He served in the old
Australia and Adelaide, Canberra and
Sydney. He was principal overseer at
Cockatoo, and did several special courses
in naval engineering in England. Captain
AJan D, Cairns, his successor, entered
Jervis Bay in 1915. During the recent
war he saw service in the Indian Ocean,
Red Sea and Mediterranean, and was at
the Guadalcanal landing.
Chief Librarian of Maorijand’s Par-
liamentary Library, Dr. Guy H. Scho-
field, retires from his post this month
after 23 years’ service. A natiye of
Dunedin, born in 1877, he footed the
Inky Way on several newspapers before
going to London in 1908 to represent a
syndicate of M.L. papers. He was there
till 1919, serving as war correspondent on
land and sea. Who’s Who in New Zea-
land, and several historical works on
notable New Zealanders, came from Dr.
Schofield’s pen. First president of the
M.L. P.E.N. Club, member of the
National Historical Committee, and hon.
sec. of the Pacific Relations Institute for
its first eight years of existence are a few
of the offices he has held in Maoriland
cultural associations.
“El Verdugo,” who knew him for 30
years;—
I first met Archdale Parkhill when my news-
paper in Queensland lent me—ah unwilling
hostage—to run a Federal political campaign
■for the “Nationalists” late in the 1914-18 war.
The “executive” and I soon quarrelled, and
Archdale was asked to come up and report.
One day a little man with a bowler, spats,
stick and twinkling eyes behind glasses in-
jected himself into the Queensland climate,
went through our papers, looked grim and
turned up at the executive meeting even more
Unpromising of mien and gave tongue. “Mr.
chairman,” he said, “before proceedings begin
I should like, through you, to thank your
organiser on behalf of my own committee for
his co-operation with us in N. S. Wales. My
committee have asked me to present him with
fifty guineas.” Afterwards he said to me:
“You have a lot to learn, but I couldn’t let
you down.” That was the secret of his success
as an organiser. His staffs during the many
years he was secretary to the variously-named
“Nationalist” organisations of N. S. Wales
swore by him—he made their weddings, their
bereavements and their troubles his own affair;
his committees liked him because he took
all the things for which they should have
earned unpopularity on his own shoulders.
When he entered Federal politics (he represented
Warringah for 10 years) organising rather than
Parliamentary ability made hinL Minister for
Defence (1934-37) and a K.C.M.G. For long
he would not speak to me because of some
severe criticism. Then, early in the Japanese
war I sent him a shorthand note of a message
from his son, who was a p.-0.-w. Archdale
came in next day. He burst into tears as he
shook hands, which was characteristic of the
kindly, bustling, emotional little man. He had
been sick for years before he died, but few
could have realised it.
Into the Silence :
In Adelaide, at 81, mining veteran Alfred
Treloar. He took his geological knowledge
West about 50 years ago, and was at Coolgar-
die, Kalgoorlie and Menzies; managed mines
at Tarcoola, Wilpena and Arltunga; helped
explore S.A.’s Far North, and at 50 fought
in Flanders, being badly wounded at Passchen-
daele.
At Cleveland, Ohio, at 46, A. Rex Code,
who graduated from the Melbourne Tech, and
University and became associated with the
inventor of the Mitchell crankless engine. Later
he was chief auto, engineer for Vacuum Oil
and during the war was Director of Armored
Fighting Vehicles, first in Australia, then in
Britain.
In Perth, at 80, R. O. Law, engineer-
contractor and company director. Bom in
Ballarat, he went to the West as a youth
and constructed railways, harbor works, public
buildings, pipelines in W.A. and other States.
In between he was a member of the syndicate
concerned in the discovery of Southern Cross
goldfield. Law was on the boards of many
public companies and was for seven years
chairman of the W.A. Employers’ Federation.
In Melbpurne, Doha R'ibush. Trained in
pre-revolutionary Russia, he was the finest
theatrical producer in Australia, taking such
pains that rehearsals —of such plays as “Lower
Depths,” “The Cherry Orchard” and “Ned
Kelly”—lasted six months. He had a close
personal friendship with Borovansky of the
Ballet and a wide range of acquaintanceship
among painters, writers, actors and musicians
in Sydney and Melbourne. He died suddenly
after a fishing trip.


Unclaimed Money—Missing Heirs.
BATES. —William Armstrong Bates (gas manager).
BORROWS. —Egbert Borrows, brother of Edith Hent-
rietta A. Borrows, deceased.
BOYLE. —Hugh James Boyle, formerly of Maghera-
felt, Co. Londonderry, N. Ireland.
GREEN. —William and James Green, born England
1937-39, sons of Joseph Green.
HAMILTON. —Francis and Reginald Hamilton, sons
of Nathaniel A. W. Hamilton of India.
BEGAN. —James Hegan, formerly of Perth, W.A.
HARSANT. —William Frank Harsant, who resided at
31 George Street, Fitzroy, Victoria, 1936.
KEMP. —Annie Kemp, born England about 1860,
sister of Susannah, Fanny, Abraham, deceased.
ROGERS. —Ernest Rogers, born about 1904,. son of
Frank Rogers, Plasterer, England, deceased.
WALKER. —John Richmond Walker, born at Bier-
low, Yorkshire, England, 1875.
The abovenamed or descendants, advantage, write
Lloyds, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide. Urgent.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
High priority among race-week dances
is given to a party at Government House
tomorrow evening. The guests will be
young people, and the gaiety will present
an opportunity for the Governor’s elder
daughter Marjorie Northcott to introduce
her Sydney friends to her fiance, Major
Donald Coburn, and to his mother, Mrs.
Coburn, just arrived from England,
There couldn’t have been a pleasanter
place in the world last Saturday (espe-
cially if you had backed Titanic) than
Randwick. Spring, slim and dryad-like,
walked .the earth under a dappled sky.
And girls, hundreds and thousands of
them, walked the lawns or popped up and
down the steps of the stands clad in Ice-
land-poppy hues, ankle-strap shoes,
nylons (and where do they get them?)
and hats happy and glorious. These ranged
from cartwheel to tiny sailor, and all
were worn well off the forehead. And
there was a truly glittering array of
two-year-olds and three-year-olds (horses,
of course) doing the handsome thing by
their owners and the other humans they
help to support.
Longer hemlines (but not extreme or
ankle-length) were definitely in the pic-
ture. They have to be with the full and
swinging skirt, otherwise the effect would
be too kilt-like. Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere’s
sage-green-and-white-spotted silk suit
wore its skirt just above the ankle. But
it’s just fresh from Paris. Mrs. Lennox
Bode’s beige silk suit and her white, up-
swept felt hat were among things admired.
The hat was tied under the chin with
a narrow ribbon of black velvet from
which dangled a bunch of beige and
brown flowers. Wendy Playfair’s hat
was large and white and worn with a
jade-blue suit. Mrs. T. Gollin’s hat
was of primrose green banded with
pink velvet. Nor can Mrs. Alan Potter’s
wide-brimmed grey felt hat be over-
looked.
A berry-red straw hat, wreathed with
poppies of white organdie, was worn
by Mrs. Pat Harnett with her black
suit. Noreen Dangar and Mrs. Grant
Giblin, Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre, Mrs. Joseph
Coen and Mrs. Frank Bragg were well-
knowns. Mrs. Tom Bateman wore pipk
roses on her large black lace hat; the
Ernest Watts were there, her hat black
and very large. Mrs. Roy Buckland, too,
wore her hat large. It was dark blue with a
touch of pink. Jennifer Hinder’s outfit was
daffodil and white. Mrs. Bouverie Ander-
son Stuart’s fine crinoline hat was rasp-
berry-red, beige her ensemble. Mrs. John
Thompson wore with her soft black frock
a wide black hat with roses underneath
the brim. Mrs. John Bovill’s navy and
red contrast was smart, A large yellow
felt was worn by Mary Brennan, from
Coopabarabran, with her black suit; Mrs.
Cliff Gearin’s printed-silk suit and large
black hat were among the smartest. Mrs.
Parsons and her daughter punted
together. Mrs. E. Salenger looked
crisp in deep sapphire and white-printed
silks ; and daughter Margaret’s flowered
silks kept company with a large white
hat trimmed with bows of white satin
ribbon flat on the crown.
The Vice-regal Northcotts were at
Randwick. The Governor lunched with
the committee of the A.J.C.; Mrs. North-
cott had her own luncheon party. In
the G.H. group were seen Mrs. Coburn,
daughters Elizabeth and Marjorie North-
cott, the Frederick Jordan lady, Mrs.
Goossens.
The only pre-war touch in “No, No,
Nanette” is that of Pauline, the maid.
Her theme cry is “No use correcting me,
I’m leaving.” Since the war most of them
don’t tell you, they just leave. Letty
Craydon’s Pauline is a joy, one of the
many surrounding Nanette to whom
Sydney will be blowing a kiss for months
to come. The chorus and ballet are
beautifully dressed, the colors as cun-
ningly sifted as they might be by Matron
Summer (calling no hospital). Opening
night, last Saturday, saw a packed Royal,
though nobody did see the distinguished
visitors mentioned at curtain fall by
comedian Norman. First nighters in-
cluded the James McCloys, who were
with Mrs. McCloy’s mother, Mrs. Olding,
the H. J. Bradys, Mrs. Farley and
J.C.W.’s Claude Kingston, over from Mel-
bourne for the Sydney rebirth of Nanette.
May Macleod, who died recently at
the home near Beauty Point, shared by
herself and sister Amy, was the elder of
the daughters of William Macleod, one
of the founders of The Bulletin. May,
who, with her sister, had travelled over
most of the world, worked steadily for
the Navy all during the war. She and
her sister put up something of a record in
the number of knitted articles they turned
out. Miss Macleod has left a wide circle
of sorrowing friends.
That spirit of bright mischief that
seems to blow along with the George
Formbys twinkled from one end to the
other of the Town Hall party last week.
The Lady Mayoress gave morning recep-
tion for the comedian and his wife, and
even the red damask hangings took on
brighter hue, George’s opinion was asked
on all sorts of subjects, even millinery.
“Did he,” one lady asked anxiously, “like
big fiats? Her own husband was all
for the cartwheel style.” George told
Stanley Crick, who was deputising for
the Lord Mayor, a story—just an old-
fashioned knitting yarn. •
It is reported that one of the aldermen,
going home, passed Hyde Park and, peer-
ing in at the blossom, muttered “Never
seen the trees so bright. Formby must
have been singing to them.”
St. Mark’s at Darling Point was right
in the spotlight when Pam Calder, elder
daughter of the F. A. Calders, of Darling
Point, became the wife of polo player
Jim Maple-Brown, of Springfield,
Goulburn. The youthful bride wore a
frock long and full and silver gleaming,
and over it drifted yards and yards of
tulle veil. There were pearls and orchids,
too, in pretty Pam’s attire, and a diamond
and sapphire brooch from the ’groom’s
father. Diana Calder, Diana Maple-
Brown and Janet Lee were the brides-
maids. Their marquisette frocks were
blue, bouffant and off-the-shoulder.
There were crowds of country friends at
the wedding. Goulburn was also repre-
sented by masses of daffodils and
hyacinths. Reception was at Oak Lodge,
the Bob Walder Woollahra home.
Mendelssohn’s great work, “St. Paul,”
will be sung in Sydney Town Hall by St.
Andrew’s Cathedral Choir next Friday.
Conductor of chorus, orchestra and
soloists will be Frederick Foxley. The
soprano will be Stanley Ellem, alto Mil-
ton Simmons, tenor George Tiley, bass
David Barwell.
Pictured here is Barbara Kesteven, cap-
tain of the First Rose Bay Company of
Girl Guides, who is acting as A.D.C. to
Lady Baden-Powell during her stay in
Sydney. Norton Trevaire photograph.
Bachelor uncle T. J. McFadden was
host at a really artistic reception when
niece Mary Somerfield became Mrs.
Ernest Read. “Joe,” who is one of
Sydney’s best-known lawyers, had his
Woollahra flat practically refurnished for
the occasion. He added an old courtly
Spanish touch, too, and when the bride
admired the linen Chinese tablecloth, rich
with lace embroideries, he added it to his
other wedding presents.
Sister Elizabeth Kenny, famed for her
treatment of infantile paralysis, is pay-
ing Australia, her native land, a visit. She
has established herself and her treatment
in America, where the Elizabeth Kenny
Institute in Minneapolis is known to all
U.S. physicians. Recently the life-story of
Sister Kenny was filmed, and she received
nearly £16,000 for the film rights. How-
ever, the taxgatherer is busy in America,
as here, and she admits he got the most
of it. In the early part of this year. Sister
Kenny visited 12 countries of Europe
and held 14 conferences.
Australia’s own Carrie Moore, toast of
more than one London musical-comedy
and pantomime season in the fiercely
competitive days of Edwardes and Court-
neidge, of Lily Elsie, the Dare sisters and
Marie Studholme, is writing her reminis-
cences. The book is to have a foreword
by Neville Cardus, and if Carrie can
commit to ink and paper half the gaiety
and charm she has preserved marvel-
lously, it should be the hit of the publish-
ing year.
From Melbourne
At the opening of State Parliament
Lady Dugan, who was attended by Mrs.
J. Haselden and Penelope Nettlefold,
wore a deep-green wool crepe frock and
a wide-brimmed off-the-face hat trimmed
with cocq feathers in a deeper tone. Lady
Dunwich, wife of Viscount Dunwich,
chatted with Mrs. G. Maxwell and Lady
Eager, wife of the president of the
Assembly. Lady Knox, wife of thei
Speaker, wore a black frock and coat and
red-trimmed wide-brimmed hat. Mrs.
John Cain was smart in black suit, silver-
fox collar and small off-the-face white
felt hat. Lady Herring’s navy ensemble
was worn with a matching hat trimmed
with navy-and-white ribbon. The U.S.
consular Richard Boyces and Canada’s
Assistant Trade Commissioner Mr.
T. R. G. Fletcher and Mrs. Fletcher were
among the spectators of the glittering
scene.
The thoughtful-looking lass portrayed
here by photographer brother John is
Joanne, daughter of Mrs. Duncan and
the late J. M. Duncan, of Healesville,
who recently celebrated her 21st birth-
day anniversary with a party at the
Storklub. Joanne herself is an expert
make-up supervisor and retoucher in
photography. During the war she was
receptionist at Chevron, the American
Officers’ Club in St. Kilda-road.
At the Town Hall party given by the
committees of nine Melbourne hospitals
to farewell Sir Winston and Lady Dugan,
Mrs. Norman Harris, president of the
Women’s Hospital, presented the popular
Governor and his lady with a Hans*
Heysen Centralian landscape. Lady
Dugan covered her black crepe frock,
which was fashioned with a fringed skirt,
with a black Persian-lamb coat; her
small black straw hat was trimmed with
matching velvet and satin ribbon. Mrs.
Bernard Heinze’s black coat was fur-
trimmed, her black hat an off-the-face
model. Mrs. G. I. Stevenson wore a black
upturned felt hat trimmed with white
cocq feathers with her black ensemble.
Other devotees of the black mode
were Mrs, Sydney Baillieu and Lady
Brookes. Lady Herring chose a hyacinth-
blue woollen suit and matching hat.
Newly-appointed matron of the Women’s
Hospital, Miss A. M. Sage, in a brown-
tailored suit and accessories, chatted to
Miss Lydia Shaw, matron of the Alfred
Hospital, also suited in brown. Mrs. Eric
Goldring contrasted her black ensemble
with a cyclamen straw turban trimmed
with royal-blue satin ; Mrs. Edgar Rouse
was trimly tailored in grey,
St. Peter’s, Toorak, was the setting for
the wedding of Nina Mary Kathleen,
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. J.
Christie, of Kew, to Peter Vincent, elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. Norman Lynch, of
Caulfield. The decorations of white lilies
and spring blossoms made a delightful
setting for the all-white nuptials. The
bride’s Elizabethan-styled gown of white
lace was fashioned with a small tulle ruff
at the high neckline and a bouffant three-
tiered skirt. A circlet of orange blossoms
held her - tulle veil in place, and her
orange-blossom posy was frilled with
tulle. The bride’s sister Pat, Pat Green
and the ’groom’s small sister Leveda were
bridesmaids. The two Pats wore white
taffeta gowns featuring slim skirts and
knee-length tunics and high-crowned
turbans; Leveda’s simple frock was of
white' taffeta, and she wore a circlet of
flowers on her hair. Peter Lewis was
bestman, and brother of the bridegroom,
Paul, was groomsman.
Later a buffet dinner was giyen by the
bride’s parents at their home, Butleigh
Wootton. Mrs. Lynch wore a powder-
blue crepe gown embroidered in silver
beads and a matching sari. Mrs. Christie’s
gown was of grey and silver lame. Mrs.
Peter Latham chose a gown of flame-red
velvet. Maureen Wilton, who was with
her fiance Dick Doyle,, had the jacket of
her royal-blue wool dinner suit em-
broidered in matching sequins. Shelagh
Doyle combined burgundy and white
effectively. Mrs. C. Curtain’s color
scheme was white-andrsilver lame. Mrs.
Les Coleman’s rose-crepe gown was full-
skirted.
Lili Kraus was a study in black velvet,
the skirt of her gown having a slight
train, for her triumphant all-Beethoven
recital at the Town Hall. Among some
of the host of music-lovers noted were
Mrs. Isobel Green, in soft-rose pink;
Lorraine McCarthy, whose black dinner
skirt was worn with a pastel-blue - silk
j blouse; Bonnie McCallum, in black
dinner gown ; Dome O’Neil, who favored
the floral touch; Rita Miller, in black
frock and small lime-green ribbon toque.
Under one of the city’s oldest gum-trees
Archbishop Booth and his wife, assisted
by Bishop J. D. McKie, received over
1000 guests at the annual garden party at
Bishopscourt. Mrs. Booth’s powder-blue
frock was worn with a black platter hat.
Chief Justice Edmund Herring brought
his wife, whose hydrangea-blue two-piece
suit had a matching hat trimmed with
cerise satin ribbon. Mrs. Bernard
Heinze’s cocoa-brown ensemble was worn
with a matching shaded hat trimmed with
sage-green ribbon. Lady Dunwich wore
a deep-green coat and small nigger brown
bowler hat. With Mrs. Karl Kumm was
Mrs. T. C. Rentoul, president of the
Y.W.C.A. Admiral Sir Louis Hamilton
came with his sister, Miss Jean Hamilton.
Among other prominent guests who trod
the beautiful lawns were Air-Marshal G.
Jones, Lieut.-General and Mrs. S. F.
Rowell, Lady Knox, Mrs. Guy Bakewell,
Chancellor of the University Mr. Justice
Lowe and Mrs. Lowe. The Archbishop
and Mrs. Booth were assisted by their
two daughters, Margaret and Patricia,
both of whom wore tweed suits.
At a i>arty given at her Eaglemont
home for recently-engaged daughter
Shirley, Mrs. Frank Watts wore a smart
black crepe ensemble. Shirley’s choice
was a pastel-toned printed silk frock.
Guests included Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Cox
and Mr. and Mrs. Murray Cox. Old
friends of the Watts family present in-
cluded Mrs. Wallace Mitchell and Mr.
and Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss. With Mrs. W.
Horsfall were her daughter Gloria, in
sage green with a small beige straw hat
trimmed with pheasant feathers, and son
Hedley. Mrs. R. Smith combined cocoa-
toned velour coat and sage-green hat.
Preceded by an Irish Pipe Band, the
Governor, Sir Winston Dugan, and Lady
Dugan entered the Town Hall for the
farewell given to them by the Catholic
community of Melbourne. Lady
Dugan’s shimmering gown of blue-and-
silver lame made a nice background for
the sheaf of pink rhododendrons which
was presented to her by the president of
the Catholic Welfarfc Organisation, Mrs.
J. J. Daly, whose black crepe frock had
a pale-blue yoke studded with diamente.
Mrs. A. A. Lord’s white lace tunic was
worn with a black dinner skirt. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinze,
pinned a spray of orchids in her fur
wrap, which was worn over a black velvet
dinner gown. After laudatory speeches
by Most Rev. Dr. J. D. Simmonds and
Bishop Stewart, the Governor was pre-
sented with a silver inkstand and Lady
Dugan with two silver casserole dishes
by Dr. Simmonds. A small supper party
followed, the guests including Captain
H. Curmi, Commissioner for Malta, and
Mrs. Curmi, Vice-Consul for France
M. Roger Loubere, Mr. Justice O’Brien
and Mrs. O’Brien, Mr. and Mrs. P. F.
O’Collins, Captain and Mrs. C. A.
Parker, Surgeon-Captain and Mrs- L.
Lockwood.
At the late-afternoon party at Ardoch,
given by John Tallis for singer Linda
Parker, the guest-of-honor, who was
accompanied by her mother, wore a frock
of apple-green crepe and a brown-fox
cape. Assisting John in entertaining were
his sister, Mrs. Keith Carnegie, in navy
frock and lime-green hat which carried
cyclamen veiling, and his niece, Pat Tallis,
in grey crepe. Professor and Mrs.
Bernard Heinze were there. Minister for
Agriculture W. G. McKenzie was with
Mrs. McKenzie. Dick Downie, recently
arrived from Canada, was with his
mother. Clyde Pate, whose exhibition of
pottery opens on November 18 at
George’s Gallery, came with her husband
ROy Shepherd, well-known pianist, and
Harold Craig, who is just back from a
business trip to England. Mrs. R. D.
Kenna contrasted her black frock with a
maize-colored straw hat. With Keith
Parker was his wife, ballet star Rachel
Cameron.


3
How Will My Estate
he Administered?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or wpman must face. By appointing The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an im-
partial Executor with over 06 years’ special-
ised experience in the administration of
estates, and the assurance that the interests
of your legatees will be safeguarded until all
trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges arc
fixed and moderate. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY; and
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £963,539.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman);
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G,, D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C. .
SS. N.S.W. Manager: J. W, Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Insure with the *
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Meggitt, Ltd.
t Dividends——v
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
£ £ jg* £
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 p.c, = 32,737 56,213
1938.. 46.464 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 46,486
1939.. 45,907 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 37,316
1940.. 40,821 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 33,232
1941.. 39,788 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 30,181
1942.. 29,887 8100 7} „ „ 25,371 28,765
1943.. 30,859 3100 7} „ „ 25,371 26,377
1944.. 31,242 3100 7J „ „ 25,371 23,608
1945.. 31,660 3100 7J „ „ 25,871 20,419
1946.. 33,468 3100 7% „ „ 25,371 15,422
1947.. 34,018 3100 7f „ „ 25,371 9,875
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
A surprisingly good result considering
the difficulties. Actually it was not quite
as good as the previous year’s, from which
was deducted £3OOO sent to the staff fund
before writing the profit figure into the
table, whereas no such contribution was
made from last term’s earnings. There
was little change in the allowance for de-
preciation (£20,236, up £143), and an
unspecified provision was made for taxa-
tion. The £34,018 of profit was enough
to give the 10 p.c. prefs. their full con-
tract rates (£4000) and show 9:1 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with 9, 8.4, 8.3,
8.2, 7.9, 10.9 and 11.2 p.c. back to 1940.
The distribution, however, was kept at
an all-round 7| p.c. for the sixth year in
succession—it is the minimum rate to
which the prefs. are entitled under the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act.
The £367,369 of paid capital is in £1
shares, of which 10,000 are first and a
like number second prefs., both 10 p.c.
cumulative, and 369,182 ords., of which
313,413 are fully paid and the balance
paid to ss. each. Excluding the deprecia-
tion reserves (£181,573), shareholders
could see all but £9875 of the capital
represented by tangible assets when the
books closed—goodwill (£115,748) is not
treated as an asset herein.
Owing to failure of the Indian linseed
crop, imports of both seed and oil from
that country were placed on a restricted
quota basis early in the term, and it has
been very difficult to get any supplies at
all elsewhere. So the co.’s three mills —
one' each at Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide —closed down as manufacturing
units, activities being confined to proces-
sing and packing imported oil on a
brokerage basis. The stuff now costs about
three times more than the figure at which
the co. used to produce it, and deliveries
to the paint and other trades are only
about one-quarter their normal volume.
Moreover, the output of linseed-meal and
sheep nuts, for which there has always
been a ready market among dairymen
and stockowners, was brought to a stand-
still, thus reducing turnover in these lines
to stock-on-hand. Rises in the buying
price of raw materials were absorbed by
Government subsidy, until the subsidy
was withdrawn in November last, since
when they have been passed on to users
in increased selling prices, which are con-
trolled by official edict. It all points to
alert management with a tight hold upon
outgoings.
It is difficult to say when an adequate
supply of seed will be available. Mean-
while, the Government has restricted
import licences for both seed and oil to
local crushers, and the co. is co-operating
with public agricultural authorities and
the Flax Growers’ Association in an effort
to make Australia independent of foreign
supplies of seed. This target, however,
is not likely to be reached inside the
next four years, though seed has been
sown in several States,
The co. is in a strong technical position,
thanks to the 1945-46 additions to plant,
and there is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1939. 1941. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,869 £367,369
Sndy. creditors 78,022 176,524 276,990 300,033
Deprec. reserve 64,639 87,874 161,745 181,575
Premises . . 85,988 98,524 112,373 112,504
Plant.. .. 129,890 140,988 248,017 249,904
Stocks ~ 134,546 198,754 195,602 239,860
Book debts .. 57,300 70,461 63,109 83,574
Cash, etc. .. 83,356 128,227 209,818 241,495
The* amount coming to sundry creditors
(up £23,043) and the stocks figure (up
£44,258) are largely interrelated. The
growth last term reflects oil imports at
high prices. The more or less liquid
surplus (£190,896) was £23,358 stronger
than at the previous balance.
At 325. 6d. the f.-p. ords. return 4.6 p.c.
on a 7| p.c. div. basis. On the same basis
the contribs. at 11s. 9d. give an immediate
return of 3.3 p.c., or 5.8 p.c. when fully
paid. Net tangible cover is 20s. 9d, per
pound of capital excluding depreciation
reserve (9s. 4d. per pound of capital).
The well-protected prefs. seldom come on
to the market.
Bruce Pie Industries, Ltd. *
This co. was launched in Brisbane on
June 28, 1946, by A. B. Pie and his
friends to develop textile manufacture —
spinning, knitting, weaving, bleaching,
dyeing, etc. —for which there is plenty
of scope in the, northern State. Queens-
land retailers now buy all but a small
fraction of their textiles from southern
manufacturers. And recent steep rises
in transport costs, together with uniform
taxation, the levelling influence of Federal
arbitration upon industrial conditions
and steady growth of population in
Queensland, should be very helpful in
winning a market still hungry for
knitted goods gnd other textiles.
Nominal capital is £500,000 in £1
shares, of which 300,000 were issued and
paid to £299,812 at June 30 last. Early
in the piece the co. bought the Bruce Pie
Bedding Co. for £8823 (including £5747
for goodwill), and all the issued shares in
Queensland Textile Co. Pty. for £50,250,
paying in each case in scrip. The public
was offered and quickly oversubscribed
238,423 shares at par (the issue was
underwritten by A. L. Nevitt and Co.),
and the directors took 2504 shares (quali-
fying holdings) for cash. There were no
free or promoter’s shares. Before allow-
ing for taxation, the bedding co. netted
£3884 and the textile co. £5372 for the
years to end June and July, 1946, respec-
tively.
A 50-acre factory site has also been
bought at Kedron (a suburb of Brisbane),
where a worsted spinning plant, etc., is
to be set up. The buildings are well on
the way to completion, and the
machinery, some of which is due from
England this month, is expected to be
turning out yarn by April next. Then
the textile co.’s plant is to be transferred
to Kedron, followed by the bedding
factory, to which an inner-spring-mattress
plant is to be added. Not until these
moves are completed will the co. have
much of an opportunity to show what it
can really do.
After allowing for taxation (£2000) and
directors’ fees (£550), net earnings for
the first year, to end June last, were
£8205, or 5.2 p.c. on average capital
employed (£156,333). Splitting taxation
and directors’ fees on a proportional basis,
£5339 of the profit came from the textile
section of the business, £2771 from bed-
ding, etc., and £95 from interest. Share-
holders received a div. at the rate of
3 p.c. p.a. (£4690), preliminary exes.
(£1243) were written out of the accounts,
and £941 was struck off underwriting
costs. The £lBBl that was left reduced
the amount of capital not represented by
tangibles in the parent’s books to £11,866
—goodwill and brokerage, etc., figure at
£5747 and £BOOO respectively. All things
considered, it is an encouraging perform-
ance.
The textile subsidiary, which turns out a
wide range of knitted goods and in which
the parent increased the book value of its
holding (now £86,142) by £34,108, netted
£10,539, or 15 p.c. on its present capital
(£70,000), for the 11 months to end June
last. That was after allowing for taxa-
tion (£7500) and depreciation (£2654). It
paid an interim div. of p.c. (£5300).
With the previous year’s final distribution
of £l7OO, the parent thus received £7OOO
from this promising offshoot, which ex-
hibited net tangibles totalling £75,239 at
June 30. Plant, etc., figured at £20,804,
stocks £43,924, debtors’ balances £18,960
and cash £18,522. Current liabilities
totalled £26,971.
The parent’s own accounts at June 30
showed fixed assets —land, buildings,
plant, etc. —at £24,070, and shares in the
Queensland Textile Co. at £86,142.
Stocks figured at £38,095, debtors’ bal-
ances £17,849, and cash £136,235. There
was £9755 coming to sundry creditors,
including provision for taxation. The
cash holding, and probably rrfore besides,
will be needed to complete the Kedron
venture.
The market prices the scrip at 235.
The investor at this figure who looks for
4.3 p.c. on his money counts on a 5 p.c.
div., which appears a reasonable expecta-
tion when the whole undertaking gets
into its stride. ‘The chairman takes a
bright view of what at the moment looks
Jj ke a ver y uncertain future, and is con-
fident that ultimately employment can
i n tbe , business for over
of capital and more than 1000
p y •
H. B. Dickie (Melb.)
June> P^t> y^T Div 0 i f d ends T B ° e £e S . ?cit.
£ £ £ £
SS” s{«} l\ p ;, e ' ?®- e ’ |’||s KS 515 S
1939.. 13,422 5i „ s „ 13,805
mo ”sharl°Vetiums, kko 0,944 . 4,6 f 6 l\ltl
Net > Dividends To Re- De-
June ’ Pr f‘ Pref ' ord ' Tot | L T**
1941 • • 16 > 920 6 p- c - 10 p- c - 16,591 829 2 > 570
1942.. 19,066 e „ s 14,400 4,6 P e 50 2,096
I I:: “.IS IS IS
1945.. 17,592 e „ s „ 14,400 8,192 io,6ie
&?;; g;S? J ;; |;; “■“» 2> ;» £«|
t After deducting goodwill, £27,000.
This co., which turns out towelling,
terrycloth and surgical gauze, first set up
as a proprietary in 1926, The public be-
came interested nine years later, when
shareholders received a seven-for-one
bonus scrip issue, and the shares were
fisted. The record since has been one
°f progress and consolidation, hastened
b Y war-tin l6 conditions, which cut off
competition from overseas and accelerated
loc£d demand; Additions costing ap-
proximately £lOO,OOO were made to the
spinning and weaving sections, and
£7^ 00 ? £f sb ca £ ita1 ’ which brought
W1 t tb * . £625 l ° Q ° f share P remiums > was
tred m 194d-
-0ut P u i ° f 0 the . S P“““8, sect l on m '
jP? 28 P;. c - m 1943 ’ but shortage
f skllled and other operatives especially
female labor, together with absenteeism
and lack of effidency, kept production
down to about 70 p.c. capacity. The
co< a } so fi as a ver y complete and up-to-
date dyeing and bleaching department
which cannot be brougi.. into full opera-
tion until more labor becomes available,
The board is thus unable to seize the
opportunity that now offers for further
expansion of the business, because of
shortage in supply of cotton goods from
overseas. Unless the production lag in
this and other industries can be over-
taken in time, we will have neglected a
ver y Poetical approach to the problem
of maintaining “full” employment.
Last term there was a small but
heartening increase in output, thanks
“principally to improved efficiency rather
than availability of labor, which is still
in short supply.” After setting aside
£15,358 (up £331) for depreciation, there
was a spring of £9086 in gross earnings
(£48,207). Including an extra £6OOO set
aside for taxation (£16,700), exes,
(£31,094) were up £6965. Allowing for
minor adjustments, the net result was
£2038 better at £17,157. That covered
the pref. div. and 9.8 p.c. on the £150,000
of ord. capital, compared with 8.5, 10.1,
9.4, 10.1, 11.1 and 8.5 p.c. back to 1941.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c., making the
average 8.2 p.c. over the last dozen years,
Another pleasing feature is that at the
rate of depreciation the book
value of P lant in the weaving mill will
be entirely written off within three years
an u d ! n tbe s P™nmB mill within five years,
® • ’
of goodwill) a different complexion,
There is nothing to worry about in the
bnances: ig47
paid capital .. £92,755 £190,000 £190,060£190,000
Liabilities .. 29,220 39,796 15,894 15,120
Tax reServe I>sBo 1 > 580 21 > 500 10 > 700 16 ’ 700
Freehold .. 29,856 74,934 81,920 79,905
Plant, etc. .. 29,846 ' 75,287 55,810 42,773
stock .. 27,543 74,084 60,644 75,114
Debtors, etc. 1 26,253 30,349 32,940
cash, etc. j 12 > no ( 15,362 eUse 12,455
stocks were up £14,470 last term, and the
co. is well placed for its raw material
requirements, the chairman says. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£88,694) was £17,809.
At 375. the pound ords. return 4.3 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The 6 p.c. prefs.
at 295. sd. yield 4.1 p.c. Net tangible
cover (book value) is £5 2s, Id. prefs, and
21s. lid. ords.


DAVIES & COLTASON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street’ Melbourne, 0.1. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
HAIMS
Circular Chart* lot all type* ol
Recording Instruments tor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get oia quotadoife
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET FTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O'lOw
SUPERFINE
LIQU Ell RS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
ŵ
Try the new Koussel Ap
pliance Free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defi-
nitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed
no matter where you
live. Call or send stamp for details. Self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
. THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27) 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
ẁ
GUARANTEED TO
REMOVE FOULING
AND RUST.
Prevents Pitting.
This oil was used exclusively
by the American armed
Forces in the S.W.P.A.
Obtainable at Hardware and Sports Stores.
N.S.W. Agents:
W. S. FRIEND & CO. PTY., DTD.,
York Street, Sydney.
TRAVEL IN GREAT BRITAIN
Recovery from war-time conditions is still proceeding
although handicapped by fuel shortages. We are
anxious to welcome visitors from Australia and if
they find train services not quite so frequent or speedy
as before the war, we are sure they will understand.
The world-famous FLYING SCOTSMAN, which never
failed to run during the war, continues its daily journey
over the historic route between LONDON and
EDINBURGH.
LONDON & NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
of England and Scotland.
Representatives in Australia;
Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd., 7 Bridge Street. SYDNEY, and branches.
a
J-u OUJ.
HUS CHJFLEY
Changed His Mind
7
m
Mr. Chifley's excuse for seizing the banks is that it is
necessary in order to maintain employment.
But in 1945, speaking on the Commonwealth Bank Bill,
he said:—
"Accordingly the Government has decided
* to assume the powers which are necessary
over banking policy to assist it in maintain-
ing the national economic health and
prosperity."
Parliament gave him the powers he asked for and he
still has them. Nothing has happened to show that they
are inadequate.
What, then, IS the reason for Mr. Chifley's scare-
mongering threat of a depression?
It is because he is afraid to tell the people that
nationalisation of the banks is the key to socialisation
of all industry and the first step to the setting up of a
Supreme Economic Council.
This Supreme Economic Council is provided for in the
plan laid down by the All-Australian Trade Union
Conference, 1921, and is intended to usurp the
powers of Parliament.
Make no mistake—if the banks are nationalised, the
door will be wide open for the introduction of National
Socialism in Australia.
Don't delay protest to-day
MAKE YOUR MEMBER
DEMAND A REFERENDUM
Authorised by Sound Finance League, 54a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Oil Search, Ltd., will offer those on
the register at October 24 627,512 new
ss. shares at par, payable Is. application
and the balance in calls not exceeding
Is. a share at intervals of not less than
a month. The money is wanted to take
up, through Nominated Holdings Pty., a
wholly-owned subsidiary, 146,182 of the
750.000 new £1 shares being issued by
Australasian Petroleum Co., Pty. (B.
17/9/’47). Oil Search, which holds
approximately a one-fifth interest in the
petroleum co., has a paid capital of
£510,872 in ss. shares, with another Is.
(£12,055) to come on 241,105 of them.
When this is in and the new issue fully
subscribed and paid, paid capital wifi be
£677,304. The market prices the fully
paids at 6s. lOd. Extensive and valuable
geological work done by the petroleum
co. shows that a considerable area of the
whole island of New Guinea is in the so-
called Malaysian Arc, which includes the
oilfields of Borneo, Java, Sumatra and the
more recently-discovered fields in Dutch
New Guinea. Since the co.’s bore at
Kariava, down 9000-odd feet, has failed
to strike a flow, another deep well is to
be sunk at Hohoro, n.-w. of the mouth
of the Vailala River. Also two scout
bores are to be drilled by recently-pur-
chased rigs—one at Oroi, near Cape
Suckling, and the other at Upoia, about
20 miles upstream from the mouth of the
Vailala.
* * * *
Bulolo Gold Dredging (New Guinea)
has made a good getaway in the transi-
tion race. It got its first dredge going
again in February last, a second com-
menced digging in April and a third a
month or so later. The fourth, a 300,000-
c.y.-a-month machine, set in on Sep-
tember 12, leaving four more dredges to
be reconditioned. During August the
three dredges in operation handled
591.000 c.y. gravel for 61070 z. fine gold,
an average of 4.96 gr. per yard ; but at
what cost has not yet been disclosed.
Last div. was $1.5 per $5 share in Dec.,
1941. For the seven months before
operations were suspended in January,
1942, the co. was handling 4.3 gr. gravel
at an average cost of 9.17 cents per yard.
The Sydney market prices the $5 shares
at £8 12s. 6d,
* * * *
From mines which, before the rise in
the old standard price of gold, were re-
garded as the graves of London capital,
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., has ex-
tracted a lot, of yellow metal in recent
years. For the year to end of March last
it obtained 36,2080 z., or 8400 oz. more
than for the previous term. Co. estimates
ore reserves, proved, broken and prob-
able, at 547,978 tons (up 21,310 tons) of
s.2dwt. average. Fixed assets (including
buildings, plant, machinery and equip-
ment) total £298,906 and current assets
(stocks, shares, investments and cash)
£357,871. Outside liabilities are tax pro-
vision £30,827 and creditors £23,260.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Results from diamond-drill
prospecting to a vertical depth of 700 ft.
in the old Maritana mine, now owned by
Paringa, Ltd., has stimulated interest in the
north end of the Kalgoorlie field (W.A.).
Six different makes of ore were pene-
trated, widths and core assays being 4ft.,
3.58dwt.; 9ft., 6.27dwt.; Ift., 3oz. Bdwt.';
2ft., 13.31dwt.; 2ft. 6in., 5.37dwt.; and
4ft., 3.92dwt. The first pay-ore was
struck at 145 ft. and the last at 625 ft.
The site of the drill is 1000 ft. south of
the Mt. Charlotte group, now under
option to Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd., and
about two miles north of the Golden
Mile, It is close to where Paddy Hannan
found gold, and in a locality where many
nuggets and slugs were specked and dry-
blown in the early days. A second hole
is now being drilled 200 ft. further south.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.), rarely
mentioned nowadays, reports good news
from the No. 7 level of Mackenzie block.
A drive off a north crosscut has exposed
a gold shoot which, for the first 25ft.
opened up, assays lOidwt. a ton over a
width of 60ins. A bulk sample of 81
tons from the drive and stripping is
estimated to average B|dwt. Sludge
samples from a bore, put out m a north-
easterly direction at No. 6 level, assay
20dwt.; but pending a crosscut check
this result should be treated with reserve,
the management says.
« * * *
Because of several new finds within
economical carting distance from Govern-
ment batteries, prospectors are flocking
to the Yilgarn goldfield (W.A.). Gold-
digging was in full swing there years
before the discovery of Coolgardie, and
for a time Yilgarn was the principal gold
producer in the State. Its best mines
were Frazer’s Group and Bullfinch, which
have passed on. There have been, and
probably still are, more small gold yielders
on Yilgarn than in any other Wes-
tralian auriferous region,
* * * *
Bega Mines, N.L., a small Adelaide
concern which took an option over the
Red Ned on the Eldorado line, Tennant’s
Creek, some 10 months ago, has ceased
operations owing to lack of funds. From
the old shaft (30ft. deep) and some sur-
face costeens along the outcrop, it is
reported that 386 tons ore were crushed
for 3640 z. gold, an average of 18.9dwt.
per ton. At what cost isn’t mentioned.
On a recent visit to the spot, C. E.
Blackett found the working inaccessible,
the contractor having removed the wind-
lass at the new 60ft. shaft. To test the
possibilities of the show he suggests
crosscutting from the bottom of the shaft
for about 60ft. and then two short drives
east and west. A 3d. call, payable June
11, failed to produce the money required
(about £1000). The board now proposes
to try its luck with sale of forfeited shares.


' 1
3aS **
,v^
a*.
%*•*
*•**■ .«’•'*
> *<>P V
■ a tssf* 5 *
XiT-' - \ T, ,-■ ', £»£^vQp' > * CL P^"'
„ O W»’ S
M
/v
sssai
V -.4^
V* o*
***
GERRARD Packaging Engineers are
freely available to demonstrate how
1. Shipping regulations can be observed.
' 2. Your handling costs, lowered.
3. Your Product given better Protection.
Enquire at:
/
SOW£B-
YOUR PROBLEM OF SHIPPING
SMALL PACKAGES
UkC
THEM TO A MULTI-UNIT
PACK WITH A
GERRARD
Tensisnai
Strapping
System
GERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES
CO. PTY. LTD.
18-24 IRELAND ST., W. MELBOURNE, C. 3
269 SUSSEX ST., SYDNEY
240 BARRY PARADE, VALLEY, BRISBANE
168 6ROTE ST., ADELAIDE
W. H. EVANS LTD., 115 ST. GEORGE S TERRACE, PERTH
■ : xi': y
■
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Concert.
All decked out in a bright new gown
and with modern quips at the tip of her
tongue “Nanette” was presented at Syd-
ney Royal, looking almost as sprightly
as when she first made her debut in
Quiet, sir. Don’t mention the lady’s age.
At times a faltering step, or possibly a
touch of first-night shyness, betrayed her,
only to be reassuringly denied by a
sparkling laugh and a graceful measure.
In a curtain speech Charles Norman re-
marked that the old girl still has a kick
in her. She has, and Mr. Norman puts
it there.
* * * *
That split-second of mutual appraise-
ment between audience and performer,
which often decides the fate of even the
best of entertainers, was never more
obvious than on George Formby’s open-
ing night at Sydney Tiv. George took
the stage with a mixture of shyness and
a rapid appraisal of his audience; the
spectators, on the other hand, were almost
stolidly watchful, as though waiting to
see just what he could do. The comedian
bridged the gap very quickly—with his
first, and frankly sentimental, song he
had the audience on his side, and by the
time he’d given out half a dozen light,
comic ditties he had the public in his
pocket. His cheery songs, infectious
humor and a stream of light patter about
his uncle’s parrot evoked a friendly en-
thusiasm from his listeners, and when,
after a couple of encores, he finally left
the stage, the applause nearly unseated
the cherubs which decorate the Tiv.’s
ceiling. The rest of the Tiv.’s current
bill, “In Person,” includes the Two Max-
wells, whose dexterous balancing is
matched only by the aif of doleful bore-
dom with which they do it; Otto Easton,
who tap-dances on roller skates ; and Cliff
Cook, a sad and clever comic and con-
tortionist, who seems to have universal
joints where his knees and elbows should
be, and a spine that can practically twist
itself into a bowline.
• * * *
A selection of Australian stage, radio
and screen pussonalities demonstrated the
traditional generosity of the show busi-
ness with a “Parade of the Stars” at
Sydney Minerva in aid of the T.B. Sailors’,
Soldiers’ and Airmen’s Association. A
mannequin parade was added for good
measure. Particularly entertaining were
Sumner Locke-Elliott’s four possible
ways of presenting a scene from “Eureka
Stockade,”
* * * *
The political crisis and a torrential
downpour didn’t prevent a good house
rolling up for soprano Linda barker’s
recital at the Assembly Hall in Mel-
bourne. Miss Parker went to Europe 15
years ago as a pianist of great talent.
She played for her teacher in Paris and
he then asked her to sing, “Forget the
piano,” he said, and the dual-talented
lady has been singing ever since. There
was a clear and assured line in all her
singing, but it came out especially in
French items ranging from Duparc to
Chaussons.
* * * *
Jacky Flourbag makes a brief report
on the latest two sections of John Antill’s
“Corroboree”: “Morning Star Dance”
and “Spirit of the Wind,” broadcast by
A.8.C.-
Dis pfeller dossem longa gunyah listen-in to
bigpfeller wireless. Tonem in Bing—baal that
pfeller, groan likem sick piccaninny. Bimeby
turnem in Canberra —yabber all longa time
gibbem dis pfeller ache b’long him head.
Bimeby announcer pfeller yabber Corroboree
speakem by pfiddle, by brass pfeller pushem
pullem, by pfeller knockem big stick longa
pigskin, blowem longpfeller pipe alltogedder.
Makeum plenty noise, not makeum plenty sense
dis pfeller tinkit. Mine not wantem hop up
makeum dance, not want paintem pipeclay
longa chest, not want makeum whoopee. Tribe
more better makeum corroboree music longa
didgeridoo, longa spout, longa gumleaf. Tinkit
white pfeller not know more better what all
noise means b’long blowem an’ scrapem t’ings
longa radio.
Artbursts.
In the paintings of George Duncan
(Macquarie Galleries, Sydney), Acridity of
color is ingeniously combined with a kind
of pervading sadness of expression. The
prime example of the artist’s defects,
“Church in the Tyrol,” was bought by the
N.S.W. National Art Gallery. It is a
somewhat pinkish-purplish impression of
architecture and the Tyrols. “French’s
Forest Vista,” a view of fields, a building
and distant mountains, has something—
a corner, really, of imagination in twisted
bare limbs of trees with birds perched
on them, giving a macabre, Poe-like and
satisfying realistic effect. But that is
superimposed on a picture which, in un-
refined colors and unsubtle contours, re-
sembles the crayon work of a light-
hearted child.
*****
There is nothing significantly childlike
in the work of Max Ragless at David
Jones’ Gallery, Sydney, or in the exhibi-
tion by various painters at the Grosvenof
Galleries. Of the latter, “Farm Building,”
by Lloyd Rees, was bought by the Laun-
ceston National Art Gallery and William
Dargie’s “La Perouse” by the N.S.W.
Gallery, Although not completely satis-
fying, “Indian Summer,” by S. Wood-
ward Smith, has a finely dramatic blue,
yet darkly brooding mountain. “Wait-
ing for the Lobster Catch,” by Frank
McNamara, is a spirited watercolor and
a row of oils by John Rowell, Dudley
Parker, Herbert Gallop, Robert Johnson
and Howard Barron are all competent and
all roughly similar. In the exhibit at
David .Jones’, Ragless’s tendency to
woolliness in skies was evident in the oils
but corrected in the watercolors. “Pop-
lars, Wondilligong,” was a fine glimpse of
golden poplars.
* * * *
Grace Cossington Smith, who re-
cently had an exhibition at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, exploits light to an
extent that her paintings became obscured
by light, or the various dissected com-
ponents of it. “Golden Morning,” bought
by the N.S.W. National Art Gallery,
demonstrates this characteristic of the
artist’s painting, as well as the general
orientation of the Trustees’ taste. The
Victorian Gallery had a slightly better
bargain with “Sitting Room Interior.”
“People in Church” is flat, yet incon-
gruously gay.
* * * *
A collection of objets d’art by Rabin-
dranath Tagore, the Bengal poet who
began painting—or drawing— at the age
of 60, are on view at the N.S.W. National
Art Gallery. Mrs. R. G. Casey has
provided particulars of the artist and can
presumably explain his work. This com-
mentator shrinks from the task. It may
be said, after thoughtful contemplation,
that his masses and streaks of violent
color, and incomprehensible outline
demonstrate the dark gropings of the sub-
conscious ; or the abstraction of Eastern
thought; or they may provide a clue to
the troubles of India. The most wholly
satisfying comment was made by a
Gallery attendant in the form of an ex-
clamation —“Gripes! ”
At the Films.
Hollywood, as quick as ever to cash in
on current fashions, has turned to ballet
and Sydney has had three samples in the
last few weeks. “The Unfinished Dance”
(current at Sydney Liberty) and
“Scheherazade” are two of those extrava-
gant technicolor confections which vary
little whether they are about ballet, bath-
ing beauties or horse operas. “The Un-
finished Dance” has some moments of
beautiful dancing by Cyd Charisse and
Karin Booth, and “Scheherazade” offers a
string of Rimsky Korsakov compositions,
but both films are Hollywood first and
ballet afterwards. More interesting is
Ben Hecht’s “Spectre of the Rose,” the
story of a ballet dancer and his develop-
ing insanity. The film has been criticised
as an exaggeration ; actually it is a pretty
factual depiction of exaggerated people.
The characters—dancers, ballet mistress,
impresario and a Bohemian fringe—are
admirably conceived and acted, and much
of the film has an atmosphere of reality
sometimes elevated to poetry. “Spectre
of the Rose” is danced, though not very
effectively, but the final dance is both
imaginative and dramatic.
* * * *
The best war books and films probably
won’t appear until after a “reflection
period” of several years, so it’s rather
soon to expect any substantial fiction on
the post-war years. Still, the problems
that accompany demob, pervade about
50 per cent, of current films —a hasty war-
time marriage and subsequent housing
problems are the excuses for presenting
Gene Kelly’s spectacular dancing in
“Living in a Big Way” (current; Sydney
St. James); war-time neurosis is the
theme for “The Guilt of Janet Ames”;
while some torrid love letters written by
a youngster and signed with her older
sister’s name produce the complications
in the excellent comedy “Dear Ruth”
(current; Sydney Prince Edward), when
the inevitable good-looking young pilot
turns up to claim what was promised in
the letters.
**, * *
The return to civilian life of an Army
sergeant, an Air Force officer and a sailor
with hooks instead of hands is the theme
of Sam Goldwyn’s very long and much
lauded “Best Years of Our Lives” (Sydney
Century). The sergeant (Frederic
March) has to adapt himself to the
smooth conservative machinery of a bank
of which he is an executive and to a family
grown up in his absence; the sailor
(Harold Russell) faces a searchlight of
pity that estranges him from his family
and the girl he is to marry ; and the Air
Force man (Dana Andrews) finds that
the girl he married during the war is an
extravagant, immoral hoyden. Their
problems and solutions are presented, for
the most part, with a warm naturalness
which, disarming though it is, is occasion-
ally too sentimental for realism —it savors
too much of war-time hopes and
promises and too little of post-war reality.
Each man’s difficulty is smoothly and
satisfactorily solved in the customary
manner of film fiction. In effect there is
an all-pervading atmosphere of “sweet-
ness” about the whole film—something
sour, a touch of tragedy and a cry of
bitterness would have given it more
balance, more dramatic impact and,
probably, more realism.


No. 18 of Series
Weedkiller. ..
o
WEEDKILLERS can work in several ways.
Some, like sodium chlorate, can be applied in
solid form to the soil and poison the weeds through
their roots. Others, like sodium arsenite, are com-
monly used as sprays to destroy the leaves and, by
repeated application, to exhaust perennial weeds.
Some plants are less resistant than others to
chemicals and this enables the chemist to produce
selective poison sprays like the sodium salt of
orthodinitrocresol, and ammonium thiocyanate.
“Methoxone” weedkiller, a recent British discovery,
works in a different way. It contains “hormones”
—substances which control the way in which plants
develop. It is very selective and, attacking only
certain types of plant, causes them to cease growth,
become deformed and eventually to die. For sodium
arsenite, ammonium thiocyanate, sodium
chlorate, “Methoxone” and other
chemicals used for killing weeds, the
farmer and gardener rely on the British
chemical industry.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Sound Investment —Savings Certificates
ICI
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
There were 71,000 at Randwick for the first
day of the Spring meeting and if those who
didn’t back the winner of the Epsom were to
march four abreast past a given point they d
be marching yet. Not being required for he
stable’s Epsom representative and favorite
rnliimnist who was ridden, as usual, by G.
Wm£ McCarten’s regular rider N. Sellwood,
accepted the mount on the 50-to-l chance
Titanic. For Sellwood, at any rate, it was a
happy turn. -
A field of 21 faced the starter, with Puff ham
drawn on the extreme outer. Puffham crossed
over quickly to take the lead from Deep Sea
' and had the field well strung out past the halt-
mile, where Titanic was running last but start-
ing to explore what proved to be a charmed
passage along the rails. Round the turn Deep
Sea ran to the front, Puffham unaccountably
collapsing completely. Half-way down the
straight Titanic had worked his way up without
having to go outside a single horse, and when
Deep Sea shifted out Titanic was through m
a flash to finish a shade better than Monogram,
with Columnist fairly beaten into third place.
One of the fantastic arguments advanced in
support of midweek racing was that it was
necessary to provide opportunities for ex-
servicemen trainers to rehabilitate themselves.
Titanic was prepared by J. O’Shea, an ex-
R;A.A.F. man who seems to be rehabilitating
quite effectively, and good luck to him. Titanic
is a five-year-old chestnut horse by the imported
Hyperion stallion Titan. The Epsom was lun
in 1.37|, slowest time since Geebung scored
in 1939.
After running somewhat erratically in the
straight, the three-year-old Deep Sea finished
fourth, less than a length behind the winner.
Since 1865 the Epsom has only on three
occasions (including a deadbeat) been won by
three-year-olds, the most recent being Dare
Devil in 1892. Like many before him, Deep
Sea may have been a trifle immature for a
big handicap so early in the season, but he
looks a fair long T range pick for the Doncaster.
Over the same period 17 three-year-olds have
won Doncasters.
Owing to the optimism of owners prepared
to pay an acceptance fee of £25 to see maiden
three-year-olds carry their colors, there were
17 starters for the Derby, equalling the record
field beaten by Trivalve 20 years ago. At
Rosehill D. Munro had been criticised for
taking Valiant Crown to the front nearly a
mile from home in the Guineas won by Con-
ductor, but the Derby suggested he had had
the right idea; McGrowdie, employing similar
tactics, stole a big lead at the mile and had
Valiant Crown still two-and-a-half lengths in
front at the judge. In fact, Conductor (2nd)
and Sovereign (3rd) never looked like catching
him. Derby favorite Karachi just plugged
around like a pure plodder.
A son of Valiant Chief and the Parenthesis
mare Bandrol, Valiant Crown is the first horse
raced by C. F. Baker, who bought him privately
as a yearling for an undisclosed sum. A full-
brother went at the last yearling sales for 375
guineas.
Greys appear to be becoming more and more
numerous, the Breeders’ Plate presenting the
unusual spectacle of four such “ghosts” in one
field, and there was also one in both. Derby
and Epsom. Still more will appear with the
first Australian-foaled progeny of Nizami, whose
crop of 18 youngsters at. the last N.Z, sales
included 10 greys and a roan.
Conspicuous (Beau Port-Scarlet O’Hara) lived
up to his name by tossing his rider as they
went out for the Breeders’ Plate, and All
Spirit (High Caste-Carbethon) gave a 90 p.c.
overproof display round at the start. With
Silent Prince also on the riotous side the start
was delayed some 10 minutes. Meanwhile the
favorite. Riptide (G. Moore), stood quietly like
a good docile colt, and when the barrier rose
was straight into the lead and stayed (here,
winning by two lengths from Simpkin, who
also looks good, and Fpxzami. A brown colt
by Midstream from the Pentheus mare
•Kamilaroy, Riptide was bought as a yearling
by A. T. McLauchlan with 2600 guineas of
the coin he won with his previous Breeders’
Plate winner Magnificent.
Russia and Good Idea, two past winners of
the 12-furlongs Colin Stephen Stakes, were
among the half-dozen contesting the w.f.a.
event this year, but Proctor went out at odds-on
favoritism. For a long w.f.a. event it was an
exciting race all the way. Picking the wrong
moment to go for the lead, Proctor was forced
very wide on the turn. Inside the furlong
Russia moved up tp join Proctor, while Silver
Link came through on the rails to make a.
thrilling three-horse finish. Russia (I. Thomp-
son) and Silver Link (A. Mulley) deadheated,
with the favorite beaten a head.
The 10-furlongs Squatters’ Handicap saw
another fine finish, Paktong (N. McGrowdie),
Courier, Crusader and Invictus passing the post
in that order with inches between them. Over
the same distance * in the Trial Stakes, Set
Purpose (N. McGrowdie) gave connections
further reason to regret having scratched him
from the Derby. The Kensington Handicap
(7f.) went to Lithesome (A. Ward).
* * * *
For the Melbourne Stakes at Flemington,
with Attley withdrawn, there was little in the
betting between Valcurl at threes and Fresh Boy
at 7 to 2, but, obviously very much suited by
the extra-heavy going, the 33-to-l chance Sea
Monarch (H. Badger) led from start to finish.
Further good form was shown by Fresh Boy,
the consistent three-year-old finishing strongly
to just head Robert Bruce (100 to 1) for
second money.
In the Maribyrnong Trial for fillies —a 41-
furlongs scamper—the El Golea filly Cyndora
(50 to 1) led all the way in pelting rain, but
there seemed more merit in the performance
of Dollar Princess, a Hellespont filly, who
finished second, ahead of Harella. Dollar
Princess bad much the worst of the barrier
draw in a field of 27, and was beaten in a
photo-finish.
Both two-year-old events, the first of the
season, attracted big fields, 31 contesting the
Trial for colts. It takes some courage to
accept odds of 2 to 1 about any horse in a
field that size, let alone about a youngster
having his first race, and those who backed the
favorite, Dhoiden, left it in. The race went
to another Dhoti colt, Bengal (H. Badger), with
King Fino (100 to 1) second and Bruvaros
third. Herodhot (Dhoti-Sequoia), who shaped
like a good ’un in barrier trials, was scratched;
he’s a half-brother to Melbourne Cup winner
Rainbird.
Sometimes providing a pointer to the Oaks,
the Edward Manifold Stakes, for three-year-old
fillies, went to the Hellespont filly Perm (from
Mascara). The speedy Broadcast showed the
“They advertised ten rounds and it's only gone one. Go and demand
our money back!”
way until W. Williamson gave Perm free rein,
whereupon Perm gathered them in and raced
off to down Florida and favorite Girl James
by half a dozen lengths.
The success of Vantage in the October Handi-
cap for three-year-old colts and geldings spoke
well for the Derby chances of his recent victor,
Solvive. With Hororata and Leonatus setting
the pace, R. Hutchinson had Vantage coasting -
along in a handy position. Leonatus led
Vantage into the straight/ the pair of them
drawing away from Cronides and the others.
At the finish Vantage had the upper hand by
rather more than a length.
In winning the 13-furlongs Stand Handicap
the Caithness five-year-old Royal Scot (N.
Powell) returned a fair Caulfield Cup trial
he’d certainly have a chance in heavy going.
Royal Scot jumped straight into the lead, held
off various challenges, and landed the money
ahead of Wandilow and Oatcake.
* «. * *
Ridden by W. Cook, Midwise (from Penny-
wise) made it a youngsters’ double for Mid-
stream progeny by nicely winning the Gimcrack
Stakes at Randwick on Monday, with Wattle
next and the heavily-backed Silverfel third.
So Sweet lost all chance playing up at the
start and being left, but she galloped well
enough to suggest she’ll win races.
Showing remarkable improvement on recent
form, Native Son (G. Moore) landed the six-
furlongs Shorts by a nose from Tactician, with
Impudent third. Only three others cpntested
the Shorts, and only three altogether lined up
for the mile George Main Stakes (w.f.a.), a
sitter for Shannon, though Munro appeared
to ease him at the finish and went dose to
being pipped by Victory Lad; Puffham third.
Taking his second Metropolitan, Murray
Stream (J. Eaves) added further to the good
Midstream record, Shannon, of course, being
also by that sire. Young Eaves kept Murray
Stream always well up—very different from the
way he’s usually ridden —took charge from the
pacemaking Invictus when they faced for home,
and just had enough advantage to get there
half a head in front of Sweet Chime, who
finished brilliantly. Open Air was third, another
half-head away.
* * * *
F. W. Hughes must have somewhere round
100 horses carrying his colors throughout the
year. Last season 19 of them won an aggre-
gate of 32 races and £20,656, making. Hughes
the leading Australian owner for the season.
Next was O. R. Porter with 14 horses winning
him 354 races and £19,669. A feature of the
list of 25 owners who won £5OOO or more in
stakes for the season was that 10 of them did
so with only one individual winner. Russia,
for Instance, placed G. J. Leeds and E.
Hush third on the list by bagging seven races
worth £14,981. Temeraire, Attley, Shannon and
Blue Legend were among others who gave their
owners a place on the list.
» * * *
Reference here to “Williegobung” as a
dubious-sounding name for a horse has brought
an interesting explanation from D. H. Mc-
Farlane, of Young (N.S.W.), who owns the
animal. The correct spelling is Willigobung,
and in the “i” is the tale. Willigobung is the
name of a property down Tumbarumba way,
at present owned by Mr. McFarlane. The
legend is that the property’s original holder,
J. W. Cunningham, was freely assured by
friends and well-wishers that it would land him
on the rocks. Said Cunningham, “Will I go
bung!” and he named the property accordingly.
Mr. McFarlane’s neddy, named ■ after the
' property, had five starts last season for a duck.
* » * *
Reopening a retrospective inquiry into the
recent running of Huamight, which had pre-
viously been investigated and cleared, the A.J.C.
sent jockey G. Podmore, trainer R. Ferris,
owner Miss K. Trautwein, her brother T. W.
TrSautwein, an associate, Herman Singer, and
the horse all out for 12 months. Next day the
committee also decided not to accept further
entries made in the names of Mr. and Mrs.
T C Trautwein, parents of the Huarmght
people Others whose entries Will be hence-
forth rejected are N. S. Cohen, part-owner
of Balmore, and K. A. Irvine and Mrs. P. M.
Irvine The only person to emerge happy from
the AJ.C.’s deliberations was jockey A. Mulley,
successful in an appeal against two months
suspension for interference at Rosehill.
* * * *
London “Times’s” sporting scribe
commented on a “puzzling problem”
presented by the Australian Rugby Union
side—they failed to press home “their un-
doubted advantages in physique and
pace ; yet every now and then, suddenly
without any warning, apparently with
the utmost vigor and intent, the whole
‘side tears in and breaks loose with crush-
ing effect.” Certainly their defea* of
Combined Northumberland and Durham
was a crusher, 49-0; Eastes, who’s made
a good impression over there, scoring
four tries. But the side’s casualty list
was seriously worsened in the earlier 19-8
win against Combined Services at Twick-
enham, where captain Bill McLean had
his leg broken and is probably finished
with football.
Excellent bowling by Jack Pettiford (11
for 107 for Gordon v. Waverley) was the
highlight of the first day of Sydney
premiership cricket. Pettiford, who is 27,
toured England and India with the Ser-
vices XI, scoring 1040 runs av. 24.19 and
taking 27 wickets av. 39. He topped
aggregate and average (269 runs av.
67.25) in the rep. matches in India, in-
cluding 124 in the first match and 101
in the second.
* * * *
Flying back from America with Colin
Long in advance of the rest of the Davis
Cup team, Dinny Pails let loose a
long squeal to the assembled press —a
fashionable stunt in sporting circles these
days. Pails presumed to hand the scribes
a written report in which he had a bad
word for his team mates Bromwich and
Brown, for manager Cowling, and for
pretty well everything concerning the
tour. Whatever the facts, it was neither
the time nor the place to spout them;
L.T.A. were the right people to receive
any written reports flying around. There
is something unpleasant about the prima
donna antics of these so-called amateur
tennis players, most of whom are em-
ployed by sporting firms and make their
crust purely by sporting ability.
$ * * #
• Rechabites rejoice! A new four-oar
for the Torrens Club in Adelaide has
been christened with three waters, in-
stead of splashing the conventional wine
on it. The water was a three-fold mix-
ture from the Murray, the Port Adelaide
River and the Torrens Lake, these being
the three courses on which the boat is
likely to perform.
* * * *
The West Indies lightweight with the
grand ould Scandinavian fighting
monicker of Mahomet Donnelly (9.94)
outfought Jackie Wilson (9.44) at Leich-
hardt, but ref. Art Mawson apparently
weighed Wilson’s better, boxing heavily in
the balance. Mahomet (otherwise Ftank)
seemed to have won beyond question,
and the draw decision was hooted loud
and long.
*** * •
Queensland featherweight champ. Dave
Landers (9.3) knocked Victorian Frankie
Flannery .out of the Melbourne Stadium
ring,, but, misfortunately for himself, not
out for keeps. Flannery clambered back
to take a deal more punishment and
eventually to send Landers in turn
through the ropes with a k.o. battery
in the fifth round.


Established 18G8
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OM 4
OSUMJVAJf
I’rciro
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” window
u ENVELOPES
- NATIONAL BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECjK BOOKS
u ROLL ); FEED STATIONERY
NATIONAL FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
national” WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS ,
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
Handy'Box
for a
Thousand Uses
ihJ
Two rope handles and lid, bound at each end with Hoop Iron.
Price: 1/6 each. 15/- per dozen. £7 per gross
F.O.R. Albury
Many other items. Write for our Catalogue
BAKER MOTORS
478 OLIVE STREET. ALBURY
Telephone Nos. 629 and 1229
17\ inches
LONG
7| inches
DEEP
LET
ATLAS )
CARRY THE
BURDEN ;
w
4 5
•,^o
vV\\tV\, ...
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The ’"Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
F. V. MIEBS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Banks and “Secondary Inflation”
W. C. Taylor, vice-chairman of the
Australian Airlines Commission and
formerly a Labor appointment to the
Commonwealth Bank board, said in an
address at Sydney Trades Hall that the
trading banks seek return of the “surplus
investible funds” lodged with the Com-
monwealth Bank during and since the
war. These funds, now totalling about
£260 million, if released, would, thb
Government feared, lead to “secondary
and uncontrollable inflation.” There was
a doubt about the validity of the section
of the 1945 Banking Act under which
the Commonwealth Bank was empowered
to requisition and retain these deposits.
Hence Mr. Chifley’s anxiety to nationalise
the trading banks and remove their dis-
cretion in the matter of credit extension.
It is true that deposits which the Gov-
ernment has already spent on war wastage
and vote-buying may bring about secon-
dary inflation if lent and spent
that is, if the Government is unable to
change its deposit debt to the banks into
a public loan genuinely supported by the
people, especially wage-spenders. But
the trading banks have never been found
guilty of anything remotely resembling
“uncontrollable” inflation, nor is it in
the least likely that they would be a party
to bringing about such a calamity.
Mr. Taylor says that the banks “over-
lent in 1929.” He does not say that the
Labor Government overtaxed, over-
borrowed, overextended credit and over-
spent on a colossal scale during 1941-45,
and continues to do so. Any errors com-
mitted by banks in 1929 were negligible
alongside the Budget and credit inflation
of the Curtin and Chifley Governments.
And,the Chifley Government continues
to indulge in gross economic abuses.
In any case, the people who lent £260
million to the trading banks on deposit
are entitled—under present banking laws
—to withdraw it as required, and if this
£260 million should be asked for by its
primary owners, then, powers ; &r no
powers, it will be capable of the same
inflationary influence as is suggested by
Mr. Taylor and, apparently, Mr. Chifley
The greatest danger of secondary in-
flation in the banking system exists in
the savings banks. Here a far greater
sum is involved, with a much greater pos-
sibility® of action being taken by
depositors. The Commonwealth Savings .
Bank alone held £369 million of Govern-
ment loans at June 30 last, and the Sav-
ings Bank of South Australia £4l million
more. The State Savings Bank of Vic-
toria holds £BO-odd million of Common-
wealth paper. About £5OO million of ,
Commonwealth loans are held by Aus*’
tralian savings banks, and by far the
greater proportion of these loans have
been issued to finance war waste. If, as
is very likely, money is withdrawn from
the savings banks on a large scale when
homes, furniture, motor-cars, etc., become
available again in quantity, the effects
of secondary inflation will become real
indeed. “Twice-spent” money is bound
to have inflationary effects. Deposits in
the savings banks grew by about 160 p.c.
during the war, and these, more than
anything else, are representative of the
excess money created by the Government
during the war period. War loans were
never adequately supported by wage-
earners, and their neglect to do so has
left a huge inflationary bombshell in our
economy.
Spending-power in Australia has been
blown up from £613 million in 1939 to
“Did you hear that? He wants a rise!”
£1541 million at June 30 last, and the
greatest inflation of all has been in
savings-bank deposits, against which the
Government, as shown, has already drawn
heavily.
If the trading banks were to attempt
to use the £260 million of “frozen”
deposits for the purpose of advances, it is
extremely likely that the greater part of
it would be employed in increasing pro-
duction and thus countering price infla-
tion. Production is the chief purpose for
which trading banks make advances. But
savings-bank deposits, when withdrawn,
are generally used to buy consumer goods,
houses, etc., which are already in shock-
ingly short supply. It is easy to see
where the greater danger of “uncontrolled
inflation” lies.
The trading banks, especially when co-
operating with a non-political central
bank, are capable of dealing with the
nation’s financial problem far more effec-
tively than Mr. Taylor and Mr, Chifley
are ever likely to be, whatever their legal
or illegal “powers.”
Businessmen in New Zealand groan as
the Price Tribunal, set up to do a war-
time job, gets firmly settled in the saddle
as a permanent price-dictator. It started
off on the wrong foot back in 1940 when
it made price orders chock-full of detail,
and it won’t easily break with the past
now. Maorilanders have had to put up
with a lot of shortages that have sprung
from inelastic price orders loaded with
anomalies. Besides, the cost -plus system
of fixing prices by making percentage
additions to manufacturing costs has
worked against consumers all along the
line. P.T. ceiling prices have had a habit
of becoming minimum as well as maxi-
mum, which hasn’t pleased the multitude.
J. S. Milne, chairman of Milne and
Choyce, one of M.L.’s leading depart-
ment stores, said in mid-September: “All
reputable sections of the trading com-
munity would welcome a system of price-
control that would prevent profiteering
and blackmarketing. Under existing
conditions it may be well argued that
some measure of price-control is justi-
tied, but it is a totally different thing to
perpetuate control which, in the end and
under normal conditions, not only stifles
initiative, but also penalises quality. The
most urgent need is that the many
anomalies that exist should be removed
without delay, and that manufacturers
should be reasonably compensated for
production costs.”
* * * *
Tantalite, Ltd., the largest producer of
tantalite ore in the world, intends pro-
cessing its own tantalite and other ores
by medium of subsidiary, to be called
New Metals (Aust.), Ltd. It was to
further this objective that application was
recently made to the Treasury to raise
£200,000 of fresh capital. Dr. D. V.
Buffer Murphy is chairman of the enter-
prises, and she also proposes that a second
offshoot be formed to handle wolfram
deposits in the Northern Territory. Tan-
talite, Ltd., gets most of its ore from
Wodgina, on the Pilbara goldfield (W.A.),
but it controls other leases as well. Tan-
talum, the mineral extracted from tan-
talite, is a rare metal; it is used for
toughening steel, in surgery on an ex-
panding scale, and in radio and radar.
It is inert, non-corrosive, and its tensile
strength is considerably greater than
platinum. In addition to producing tan-
talum and niobium, New Metals, Ltd.,
proposes to extract beryllium and
caesium. The plant will probably be set
up in South Australia. Dr. Buffer
Murphy has devoted a great deal of atten-
tion to the tantalite-mining industry.
* * * * •
Canberra is setting aside £2,350,000
this year as a “grant to Provisional Ad-
ministration of New Guinea towards ex-
penses, including native welfare, develop-
ment, war damage ancf reconstruction,”
the comparative figure for 1946-47 being
£646,651. The “war-damage” part of it
can hardly refer to war-damage claims,
since these are payable out of the under-
writing fund established for the purpose,
and which stood at £11,158,000 at June
30 last. Residents, of Papua and the
Mandated Territory are stiff frustrated
by the red-tape that Eddie Ward
ministership has brought to the island’s
shipping and other services, and fear that
the virtual quadrupling of expenditure
in the areas will mean at least that multi-
plication of the amount of red-tape, what-
ever else it may bring. Labor-recruiting
conditions have become almost impos-
sible except for the big companies owning
their own means of aerial transport.
Koitaki Rubber shares have slumped
from nearly 30s. to 21s. following the
“new order” that Ward and his trade-
union and Com. followers brought to
New Guinea. It cost £993 last year for
a film representing a “record of retura
of Civil Administration.”
* * * *
“Benefit” of the Government’s in-
trusion into the field of civil aviation:
The cost to the taxpayer of the depart-
ment is estimated at £3,821,000 for the
current year, compared with £1,248,862 in
1946-47 and £728,105 in 1945-46. Just
as weii the High Court denied the Com-
monwealth a monopoly of all the air
services.
* * * *
The Canadian press has condemned
the Australian bank-nationalisation pro-
posals right and left. This extract from
a leader in the Montreal “Star” is typical:
The Australian Government’s decision to
nationalise all banks in the country is as
unwise as it is astonishing. It is unwise be-
cause banking is, of all businesses, the one
least likely to prosper under socialised
direction. It is astonishing on two grounds:
first, because Australia has enough troubles
on its hands without wantonly adding one
more; secondly, because the Commonwealth
Government only two years ago vested the
Commonwealth Bank with virtually all the
powers of a central bank. This step in
itself provides the banking system with
whatever direction most Governments be-
lieve it prudent to impose.


Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Eleventh Annual General Meeting of Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited was held at 12 noon on Friday, 26th September, at Manufacturers’
House, Sydney.
Blair Athol Coalfield
The Blair Athol coalfield is 239 miles
west from Rockhampton (Q.), and it was
first discovered in 1864 in the process of
drilling for water. There is no outcrop,
though the overburden is often extremely
shallow. .
No great development occurred until
1909, and in 1910 a railway was run to
the field. There are now two cos. prin-
cipally concerned— Blair Athol Opencut
Collieries, Ltd., and Blair Athol Coal and
Timber Co., Ltd. About 3,600,000 tons
of coal has been mined to date.
The proved reserves of coal are put at
116 million tons, with about 90 million
tons probable. There is, little evidence
at present that the deposit greatly exceeds
these reserves. There is from 25ft. to
110 ft. of overburden (including a thin
seam of coal) over the Big seam, which
is from 60ft. to 90ft. thick. The Big
seam averages 8.5 p.c. moisture, 25.7 p.c.
volatile matter, 59.3 p.c. fixed carbon and
6.7 p.c. ash. Calorific value is about
12.000 B.T.Us. to the pound. The coal
is officially described as “tough, dull,
lustreless, and of a texture which is fre-
quently woody. It is classified in the
bituminous to sub-bituminous class, and
is a steaming and non-coking coal.” It
has been proved suitable for use in loco-
motives.
Latest development has been an offer
to the State Government by the Electric
Supply Company, England, to work the
opencut on a'vast scale, with a target of
3.500.000 tons a year. Capital expendi-
ture of about £18,000,000 is forecast,
and part of the production would be
shipped to Britain and other overseas
countries. Apropos of this undertaking
Premier Hanlon recently said: “Here we
have in abundance one of the funda-
mental requirements of modern industry.
Around these coal measures industries of
all kinds can, and will, be built up.” That
is, apparently, if “nationalisation,” etc.,
doesn’t scare capital away.
Another British firm, Powell, Duffryn,
is showing interest in other Queensland
coal deposits.
Blair Athol Coal and Timber has made
two new issues recently. There were
53,680 ss. shares issued in October, 1946,
and 75,000 last month. This raises issued
capital to £75,000 in , 300,000 ss. shares.
Lowest price for the shares in 1946 was
3s. 6d. Recent quotes have been 10s.
Blair Athol Opencut put out 50,000 10s.
ords. last December. It now has an issue
of 88,600 10s. ords. paid to 95., 60,400
10s. ords. fully-paid, and 2000 f.-p. ss.
ords. Current quotes for the 10s.-paids
are around 16s.
Burlington Mills, weaving rayon fabrics,
tapestries and furniture coverings at
Rutherford (N.S.W.), disclosed a profit of
£74,751 for the term to June 30 last
—after allowing £60,506 for deprecia-
tion and £64,764 for taxation. Paid
capital is £560,523 in 350,000 fully-paid
£1 ords. and a similar number called to
12s. 6d. An 8 p.c. div. has been declared,
3 p.c. of it tax-free, calling for £31,500.
After carrying £5OOO to a staff fund and
writing off all intangibles, reserves total
£62,069. The £l-paid ords. are at 565.
in the market, putting a high valuation
on the undertaking. The co. should have
a better run this year, with a fuller return
from the -enlarged plant. There is less
trouble in getting efficient staff in the
Rutherford area than in Sydney, and a
great demand exists for output from the
company’s mills. It does not spin yarn,
and is not competitive with Courtaulds.
Burlington Mills, of North Carolina,
U.S.A., is the largest shareholder, and its
technical assistance has been a big help.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton Mills, Australia’s
most progressive cotton-textile enterprise,
has got from thp U.S.A. control of the
Plexon process of plastic-coating fibres
in Australia and New Zealand, and has
floated a new subsidiary to handle the
licence. Australian Plexon Pty. is ex-
pected to be producing early next year.
The parent has also acquired rights to
the Banflame method of flameproofing
textiles. A major development in the
Bradford organisation was the acquisi-
tion some years back of the Sanforising
system of preshrinking cotton cloth.
Major units of the parent’s new spinning
and weaving plant are expected to start
arriving in the Commonwealth soon. In
its last term the co. found labor con-
ditions better, but not yet fully satisfac-
tory ; turnover for the year rose
markedly. Profits of the parent and off-
shoots totalled £182,530, subject to taxes
estimated at £63,008 (the figures were
£153,475 and £52,801 in the preceding
term). Latest earnings were written in
after allowing £76,723 for depreciation.
Paid capital is £952,733, and there is
£322,175 at call on 368,199 new ords.
There are 740,455 f.-p. ords. ; the rest of
the issue is in 6 p.c. prefs. and em-
ployees’ shares. Combined earnings last
year were equal to 14 p.c. on ord. capital,
allowing for prefs. The ord. div. re-
mained at 10 p.c., and the £1 ords. have
firmed to 545.
In the course of his address to share-
holders, the Chairman of Directors, Sir
Norman Brookes, said:
Ladies and gentlemen:
This is the Eleventh Annual Meeeting of
shareholders of A.P.M., Ltd., since it became
a public company in April, 1937, and it is my
duty to report to you on the activities of the
Company during the past financial year.
Before doing so, I wish to offer some com-
ments on events and trends of a more general
nature which have a specific bearing on this
industry and the individuals concerned in it.
Australia was fortunate to survive the war
with little' physical destruction, a greatly ex-
panded industrial potential and a cost structure
which compares favorably with any other
country. We are, therefore, well-placed when
further allowance is made for the added advan-
tages of supplies of raw materials Within our
own territory.
Nevertheless, the last two years, and especi-
ally the one covered by this report, have wit-
nessed serious and frequent industrial unrest.
More and more has the Federal Government
sought to take power at the expense of the
State Governments and competitive enterprise.
It has become evident that every effort is being
made by the Federal Government to retain as
long as possible in the post-war economy its
war-time powers and to exercise other powers
to the limits permitted by the Constitution.
The most recent and serious attempt by the
Government to encroach on individual free-
dom is the proposed legislation to nationalise
all banks other than State banks. This is a
step, the implications and effects of which, if
passed, would be most detrimental to the liberty
of each person in this country. I believe the
effect of such legislation will be to stifle
legitimate enterprise and to impose totalitarian-
ism. Furthermore, this comment comes from
a Company which has always enjoyed con-
siderate and efficient service from the Com-
monwealth Bank and has no fault to find with
that institution as such. We believe, however,
that the presence of competition is at least a
contributory factor to the quality of service
the customer, a #. that the complete absence
of competition in the vital function of banking
is too open to abuse and is therefore danger-
ous in the extreme.
The accumulated shortages and pent-up de-
mand of the war years require a steadily ex-
panding volume of goods and services if a
higher standard of living is to obtain.
Industry today is faced with ' the allied
problems of maintaining the discipline and pro-
viding the incentive necessary to secure a high
level of production at the same time as full
employment. Some degree of discipline and
incentive is essential to efficient production and
the need for either or both is common to all
men, whatever their position or interest.
Yet we have experienced not only the falling-
off in discipline, but also the failure to develop
satisfactory incentives. We have, in other
words, seen that full employment is not neces-
sarily accompanied by full production.
The challenge to industry today is to find
a solution to this problem. It is one to which
your Directors and the staff of the Company
are giving serious and continuous attention.
Our aim is to endeavor to devise, in con-
junction with the Government, the trade unions
and our employees, a plan which will meet the
legitimate needs of employees, shareholders,
customers and management by producing goods
in abundance at low prices.
I now 'propose under the customary headings
to deal with the salient features of the Com-
pany’s progress.
FINANCIAL
Our net profit, after providing for taxation,
was £269,889 for the year ended June 30, 1947,
as against £227,312 last year and £258,775 for
1944.45, Dividend rates are unaltered.
The main reason for the improved profits
in the current year was the greater total
production of papers and boards. This resulted
from better continuity of machine operations
than in the previous year when the coal short-
age, among other things, affected our output.
This year, by the use of brown coal and sub-
stitute fuels, we managed to maintain produc-
tion in Victoria, in spite of the shortages of
New South Wales coal.
Taxation in various forms again makes heavy
demands upon the Company and its share-
holders. Out of the year’s profits, £231,259
is provided for Company income taxes, and
in addition to this, about £45,000 has been
incurred in other forms of direct taxation.
During the year our total provision for de-
preciation and amortisation amounted to
£342,198. This includes an amount of £56,451
as special depreciation at 20 p.c. on post-war
capital expenditure under Section 57(A) of the
Income Tax Amendment Act of 1946. With
our very large future expenditure on ctew plant
and machinery at greatly enhanced prices com-
pared with pre-war, this allowance will be of
increasing importance.
Turning now to the balance-sheet, there
are some changes warranting comment.
The nominal capital of our Company has
been increased from £4,600,000 to £10,000,000
as the first step to enable the Company to
raise new capital to meet the costs of our
expansion programme. But before we can
issue new shares the Company must obtain
the authority of Capital Issues Control.
The increase in the item “Shares in Subsidi-
ary Companies” is due to investment in Mad-
dingley Brown Coal Pty., Ltd., which company
supplies brown coal from the Bacchus Marsh
area to all Victorian mills except Maryvale.
The development of this open-cut has made
a valuable contribution to the fuel supplies of
Victoria. •
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
The aim of our industrial relations policy
is to establish contentment among all those
employed by this Company without neglecting
our equally direct responsibility to shareholders,
customers and the general public.
SECURITY
Your Company, is working out the final
details of a scheme to provide adequate pay-
ments to employees when they are ill and
other benefits. With this will be coupled a
provision for greater security of employment,
while for staff the Superannuation Fund has
been improved considerably during the past
year.
HOUSING
In view of the acute shortage of accommo-
dation and the equally acute need for its
satisfactory provision, the Company is actively
pursuing its house-construction programme.
At Maryvale we have built or purchased 171
houses for employees, and contracts have been
let for another 111, half of which are already
in the course of construction.
At Fairfield and Botany Mills also a lesser
number of houses have been and are being
erected.
Furthermore, arrangements have been made
to help employees to obtain finance with which
to purchase or build their own homes.
We hope to make employment in the Com-
pany attractive to the best class of worker,
and to retain an efficient, stable and contented
working force.
PRODUCTION
The total output of paper and board from
the five mills was 124,495 tons compared with
112,495 tons last year.
You will remember that our production fell
in 1945-46, partly on account of the severe
coal shortage and partly owing to industrial
disputes. The coal shortage is gradually being
remedied for the Victorian mills throbgh the
operation of our Brown Coal Company at
Bacchus Marsh which I have already men-
tioned. This open-cut is yielding some 1700
tons a week with expectations of output rising
to at least 6000 tons a week by the end of
1951.
While this brown coal has been invaluable
as a source of power and steam, it has neces-
sitated a change-over to different types of
grates and stokers for the boilers at the mills.
Higher tonnages have been obtained from
the Maryvale Paper Machine, the Fairfield
M.G. Paper Machine and the Broadford Board
Machine.
The reconstructed Broadford No. 1 Machine
came into operation in April this year as No.
6 Machine, Botany, thereby further increasing
the Company’s productive capacity.
In addition to paper and board, our pulp
mill at Maryvale produced a total of 38,956
tons. This tonnage, which compares with last
year’s total of 38,670 tons, would have been
higher if more labor had been available. These
figures allow for loss on bleaching portion
of the pulp.
The introduction of the 40-hour week in
New South Wales on July 1, 1947, has resulted
in reduced output from our Botany mill. This
is inevitable in an industry whose rate of
production is governed in the main by machine
hours worked.
RAW MATERIALS
There is at present a universal shortage of
pulp and we have experienced difficulty in
obtaining sufficient supplies of the long-fibred
pulps from abroad which we require to blend
with our own short-fibred pulp.
In an endeavor to secure our requirements
and to assess the trends and developments
overseas in connection with pulp, paper and
board from every angle, our Managing Director,
Sir Herbert Gepp, is now visiting the continents
of Europe and North America.
Much good has already resulted from his
work in Europe, but his review will remain
incomplete until the North American poten-
tials have been closely investigated by him.
During the past financial year the price of
imported long-fibred pulp has again risen
sharply, and the limited quantities available
cost approximately 70 p.c. more than a year
ago. Since pre-war, prices of pulp have in-
creased by over 400 p.c. We are continuing
to investigate every possible means of utilising
further and expanding our local pulp resources.
We are endeavoring to extend the use of straw
and are aiming at increasing our collections of
waste paper. Our object is not only to make
up overseas shortages by substitute materials
available in Australia but also to offset, in
part, the increased costs which arise from the
high prices we are having to pay for imported
pulps and to hold down prices of our products
to the maximum extent possible.
DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH
Six paper and board machines have been
ordered from Walmsleys in England. One
M.G. Board Machine for Fairfield is in process
of manufacture and shipment will begin shortly;
detailed specifications have been finalised foi
the second paper machine for Maryvale and
are nearing completion for another paper
machine for Botany. The details of the re«
maining machines are still under consideration.
I referred last year to the possibilities of our
erecting a board mill in Queensland. I can
now report officially that an excellent site has
been acquired near Brisbane and that detailed
consideration has been given to the various
problems associated with the initial project and
its possible future development.
' »
POLICY
The Board of your Company continues to
watch commercial, financial and industrial trends
with the closest attention. It endeavors to
shape its policy so that the Company may meet
the needs of the Australian market for a wide
range of papers and boards, while at the same
time playing a responsible part in national
development.
You will remember that it was always the
practice of the Company to send representatives
abroad regularly. We have resumed this very
desirable practice, which was interrupted by the
war. Not only are officers in the technical
field overseas but our Secretary, Mr. C. R.
Thomas, is at present in North America and
will also proceed to England.
Earlier in my address I made reference to
Sir Herbert Gepp’s visit abroad in connection
with our supplies of long-fibred pulp. I would
like to add our sincere appreciation and thanks
for the very thorough and able manner in which
he has been investigating the many and varied
problems connected with the general working
of the mills and the important post-war con-
struction programme of this Company. He has
with him Mr. Thorpe, one of our highly-valued
officers, who has been most helpful to him
during his many investigations.
I would like at this stage to pay a special
tribute on behalf of the Board to our Acting
Managing Director, Mr. C. S. Booth, for the
able services rendered by him during Sir Herbert
Gepp’s absence and under the difficult conditions
which have existed during the past six months.
It is with regret that I refer to the tem-
porary absence of Mr, W. G. Purdie, our
General Manager, owing to a recent accident.
I am glad to say he is improving and we look
forward to welcoming him back in the near
future.
I wish to express, on behalf of the Board,
sincere thanks to the staff and employees of
the Company for their loyal services during the
past year. It is a source of great satisfaction
to the Board that, in these difficult times, we
can always rely on their loyalty, zeal and co-
operation.
In conclusion, I want to express the con-
fidence of the Board in the future of this
Company and of this great country. We feel
that the immense possibilities of the future can
be realised to the lasting benefit of us all if
we can achieve a harnlonious understanding
between the different sections of the community
and a firm, trust in our common destiny.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”; Droughts, floods, crippling
taxes, blowflies and politicians, scarcity
of materials and labor, pests bureaucratic
and bacterial —these represent only a
few of the tribulations that would get a
less sturdy fellow than the cocky down
and out. But just occasionally something
happens which gives that extra fillip to
his gloom. One cow fancier we struck out
from Bomaderry (N.S.W.) had a particu-
larly frustrated look as he gazed sorrow-
fully upon the remains of an elderly and
emaciated milker. We pointed out that
Strawb. had obviously bad long passed
the zenith of her career as a supplier of
lacteal wealth, and that, pleasing as might
be the contemplation of it from both the
economic and sentimental viewpoints,
immortality was not given to the rumi-
nant family: death came to cows, four-
legged and two-legged alike; But that
cocky was inconsolable. At last we got
it out of him. “To tell y’ the truth,” he
said, “I lost a bull only last week, an’
spare me days”—here he contemplated
tragically the cadaver at his feet —“the
only pickle tub I got is full!”
* * * *
“Kenwood”: I kept a frogmouth for
seven years, after some lads had broken
his wing. He had the free run of the
garden, but was quite incapable of pick-
ing up food from the ground; it had to
be dropped into his beak. And after
trying to get him to drink I gave up the
attempt. Gould says “the night call
is a loud hoarse noise, consisting
of two distinct sounds, which can-
not be correctly described.” My
chap’s night call was never anything but
one sound, a correctly expressed “oom.”
This sound may be a call to his mate
in a state of nature, but with me it was
invariably an indication that “Jacko” was
on the back-door step demanding his
food at dusk. Once when I picked him
up he expressed resentment with a hoarse
squawk—one sound, not two —but other-
wise I never recorded anything but the
one monotonous sound repeated anything
between five and 30 times. After he haj
been fed there was no further sound from
him.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: “Kelms” (B. 10/9/’47)
is correct in reckoning that appreciable
colors of gold can be washed out almost
anywhere on the Westralian goldfields.
In 1894 when the railway reached the Big
Camp it occurred to Vosper, the long-
haired editor, afterwards the western
State’s most picturesque legislator, to
collect a few samples of the stone being
dug from the cutting just east of what is
now the Coolgardie station. Assayed at
Bayley’s mine, this stuff, hundreds of tons
of which was carted away to be used as
ballast, went five dwt. to the ton.
Altogether too poor to pay for treatment
in those days, so it was just left at that.
In these days if the whole surface of the
Golden Mile could be taken out
to a depth of perhaps 100 ft. it would pay
handsomely. It can’t be done, of course,
because, most of that surface is occupied
by treatment plants, mine offices and
various other accessories. But I don’t
agree with “K.’s” old prospector’s idea
of turning over the surface of much of
the State by colored labor. Efficient
modern earth-moving machines could do
the job better and cheaper; the real
difficulty is lack of water.
* * * *
“Zake”: If you ever see a fisherman
having a hearty laugh it won’t be at a
shag perched somewhere within shag-
sight of where he is angling, for the black
diver with the gargantuan appetite is
second only in a fisherman’s popularity
to thfc 14ft. sea lawyer, which poises itself
under his boat waiting to pounce on the
snapper or jew as it is being hauled from
the green depths. But I knew one fellow
who had his revenge for many nqn-biting
hours. He set his wire fishtrap with
a gleaming white shinbone suspended
from the top, a few feet under the surface
at high tide, and left the sable pest with
the fishing grounds to itself. A few hours
later he went back. The dark object he
espied in a fixed position proved' to be
the feathered robber, its head firmly em-
bedded in the wire mesh into which it
had dived with greater enthusiasm than
judgment,
* * * *
“Bughouse”: I see the Yanks are claim-
ing success in rainmaking by the aero-
plane-dry ice method. Dry ice, of course,
is frozen carbonic acid gas (carbon di-
oxide), which gas can be produced cheap
by the action of sulphuric acid on lime-
stone, chalk or any similar calcium car-
bonate, either in the form of an ice or
as a snow. Sky overcast, the Yank
now sends aloft a plane carrying a couple
of hundredweight of carbonic acid snow.
Rising above the cloud formation the air-
man sprinkles his snow thinly over an
area of a few square miles. On contacting
the clouds the snow induces a rapid lower-
ing of temperature, condensation of sus-
pended moisture—and 10, the miracle is
accomplished! Better still, the initial
chill seems to induce a chain reaction so
that falls of an inch have been recorded.
* * * *
“Bayley St.”: Reading the “Red Page”
appreciation of The Golden Grindstone
(B. 10/9/’47) restirs my wonder why,
although a dozen or so bestsellers have’
been evolved out of the Klondike, not
one has been evolved out of, say. Cool-
gardie. The lack, I consider, is due to
the Australian, and particularly the gold
digger’s, passion for understatement.
Take any gathering of old-timers and try
to get something of an adventurous nature
from their reminiscences; no use. Every-
thing was quite prosaic: merely a matter
of tin dog and damper, dry sinking and
occasional water shortage—and, of course,
gold. But really nothing, mind you—
nothing ever happened. And any writer
who tried to infuse a little color into
the picture—“pah, just another ‘Smiler’
Hales!” But. even “Smiler,” though he
was early in Coolgardie and had a
picturesque career, failed to get a book
out, of it. Yet when one takes the
files of the Coolgardie “Miner,” the
“Pioneer,” the “Golden Age,” those com-
mentaries of the ’nineties are full of
romance—goldrushes, thirst, lost men in
the wilderness (women, too), bad blacks,
strange killings, stranger robberies, for-
tunes won and as quickly lost. And on
our bookstalls we have to go to the
Klondike to find adventure and romance.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: Two of us, seeking
wild duck, were dragging our feet through
the hot sandy bed of the Coongan Gorge,
30-40 miles south of Marble Bar (W.A.).
We came on a long quiet pool, shaded
by gums, and teeming with duck and
shags. We crept to within about 30
yards, set the Tommy gun on full auto,
and poured 20 rounds of .45 into the
duck in a couple of seconds. After the
noise and splash and flurry subsided there
wasn’t a dead or alive, to be seen.
Then, as the last ripples reached the
edges of the pool, a large goanna poked
his head and neck above the water like a
periscope. After surveying all quarters
of the landscape he paddled ashore and
made off leisurely into the trees. I don’t
know whether he was basking on the
bank of the lagoon or swimming in it
when we started firing; certainly he filled
“I tell you kids DON'T grow on cabbages !”
his tanks and hit the bottom fast, remain-
ing there until convinced it was safe to
show his skin.
* * * •
Bullengro”; In these enlightened days
when racehorses, cows, dogs and heaven
knows what else are carried by air I’m
just waiting for some smart fellow to
dispatch a consignment of coconuts that
way. On Cocos Island once I persuaded
?° m .® /he Cingalese (taken there
by the R.A.F.) to gather me a couple
of dozen nuts and truss them up in a
palm frond. I heaved the things into the
plane and forgot about ’em until, a
thousand miles from Cocos and 12 000
feet up, I felt like a drink of coconut
milk. Under the reduced pressure at that
altitude every nut had split and the milk
had escaped down into the belly of the
plane.
• * * *
“Wippegong”: Although blessed be-
yond their neighbors in the matter of
appearance, parrots have no claim to
merit when it comes to domestic tidiness
Stroll through the tall timber when the
gumnuts are ripe, and you can tell by
the mess on the ground where gang-
gangs or crimson parrots have been feed-
ing aloft. I don’t mind them devouring
seeds by the thousand, but why must
they nip off a large twig with as many
leaves as nuts, and drop the thing when
only half the seeds are eaten? Don’t tell
me some of them are hard to crack or
awkward to hold, for the dexterity with
which the cockies and their kin handle
their raw material with the claws is
equalled only by their skill in extracting
the edible part with the beak. Just now
the galahs axe nesting and a couple have
chosen a spout near the hut and con-
sequently spend the day shrieking abuse
at everyone in sight, no matter how much
better their claim to the territory might
be. With a torch, I took a peep down the
hollow and saw a handful of green box-
leaves lying nice and flat at the bottom;
but on the ground underneath there is
about a barrow-load of rejects. Maybe
the old man brings the foliage home
while mum does the selecting—which
could account for much of the acrimony
at present shattering our peace; but I’ve
a lurking suspicion that these fowl reckon
a body beautiful is the only appearance
worth keeping up. I’ve noticed the same
trait in others than birds.
* * * *
“Dunsborough”: Is the arum lily a
native Australian or has it, like the rabbit,
simply run wild? Around Busselton
(W.A.) and along the Vasse River, which
runs through the town, and by which there
are “Napoleon” willows from St. Helena,
the lilies should, by now, be in full bloom.
They seem to grow everywhere, along the
creeks, and spreading almost like snow
under the gums. It seems incredible that
they could have spread to such an extent
simply from garden planting, and yet I’ve
never seen them growing so profusely in
any other part of Australia. On behalf
of the Westralian Tourist Bureau, it
should be added, of course, that most
other wildflowers flourish and make that
particular corner of Australia one of the
most beautiful places in the continent.
* * * *
“Lub”; “ ’Sfunny how coves will get
wrapped up in a pet or hobby or what-
ever it is so’s they ain’t much use f’r
anything else,” remarked Ben. “There
was old Harry, who camped in a humpy
in a treeless bend of the river an’ made
a hobby of his pet goanner. Joe was
about seven foot long an’ sort o’ temper’-,
mental, havin’ fits o’ bein’ shy an’ hidin’
m unexpected places. Harry useter put
in most of his time trappin’ rabbits fr
his pet, an’ when he sold the skins he’d
buy eggs by the dozen an’ feed ’em t’ Joe
Somehow or other Harry offended the
goanner an’ didn’t get a sight of him
fra coupla weeks. Then one mornin’ he
found Joe sunnin’ hisself on the roof of
the humpy. Well, he goes up quietly t’
make friends an’ Joe forks his tongue an’
scrambles over the ridge t’ the other
side, an’ when Harry gits round there
his pet doubles back over the ridge. They
played hide-an’-seek over the roof f’r
a coupla hours till Harry did his block
properly. He rushed inside an’ grabbed
the shotgun an’ then, sightin’ his pet
through a crack in a bark sheet o’ the
roof, he let drive an’ blew the goanner t’
bits. Harry’s never bin the same since;
thb shock an all that seems t’ have turned
him a bit queer! ” *
* * * «
“Flathead” holding forth on hurley:
In search of the “perfect, all-purpose hurley,”
even a level-headed fisherman eventually goes
mad. A typical case-history would begin in
the angler’s early days, while he still follows
the book of rules and, for a lure, dutifully
crushes “mussels and similar shell-fish, mixes
with sand, and administers sparingly.” It is
not long before he starts experimenting and
comes on his excursions weighed down with
bags of last week’s garbage and carefully un-
preserved fish-heads. He does not officially
become a menace until he turns up with, and
leg-ropes to the gun’l, some nameless, horrible
putrescence which he proudly introduces as
his “own special mixture.” This quest of the
ideal lure eventually causes queer, unnatural
streaks in the angler’s character. It can even
lead to callousness, and a friend of mine who
was once quite normal never sets out fishing
now without some prospective victims of sea-
sickness on board. “The more the better,”
he declares, “and if the water’s too smooth
for good results, I start talking about greasy
pork chops.” However, there would be hope
for my friend if he could take a long mountain
holiday away from even trout-streams. I doubt
though the recovery chances of some Americans
whose affliction has recently taken them right
out of the burley class. Their latest is a “fish-
caller”—a device consisting of a whistle mouth-
piece attached to a length of rubber tubing.
Blowing through the mouth-piece with the end
of the tubing under water is said to “produce
a low melodious bubbling note, very pleasant
and attractive to the fish.” You see what lengths
normal people will go fruitlessly seeking the
best fish-lure? Anything from garbage to a
“fish-caller.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Skinflint Brogan had the
biggest place on the river ; it was a model
farm, a tribute to his slave-driving
powers over the missus, family and hired
hands and his aptitude for driving a
hard bargain. When his two sons settled
on blocks of their own Brogan put on* a
couple of share-farmers and took things
easier while the big cream cheques rolled
in each month. He was lucky to get con-
scientious, hard workers who knew dairy-
ing and kept the herds at their top right
through the season. Labor was very
scarce, too, but Skinflint put them off at
the end of the second season. “They was
makin’ too much money,” he explained.
“Between ’em, they were gittin’ nearly
as much orf the place as I was. I had
t’ struggle half me life t’ git this property
the way it is. Now I’ll go back t’ milkin’
a dozen cows meself, which is enough fr
me own needs, an’ no more worries about
outsiders liftin’ twelve quid apiece orf me
place.”
* * * * >
“Abi Tonus”: Wigs in the tropics
would seem an absurdity owing to the
large amount of sweating, but among
certain Papuan tribes baldness .causes
great shame, and the making of wigs is
quite an art. Since the war, old army
hats have been used as the basis to
which the artificial hair is attached, and
the ingenuity of the makers is really
astounding, although coloring does not
complicate the manufacture unduly. The
wearers make no attempt at pretence,
and will remove the wig for inspection
readily. The best one I have seen was
worn by a good mission boy rejoicing in
the name of Samson; apparently he
gained much prestige from the mere fact
of possessing the wig, not from any de-
ception that might eventuate.
» * * •
“Colonial Cove”: While I agree with
“Flathead” (B. 3/9/’47) that the dingo
was in Australia when Captain Cook
arrived, it certainly wasn’t on hand to
snarl at the great navigator. Actually
neither Cook nor his men caught a
glimpse of Warrigal. Which seems to
prove that Cams australasm was by no
means plentiful along our continent’s east
coast at that time, though Dampier 80
years earlier had glimpsed wolf-like
canines along the starvation parts of the
western coast. Nor can I imagine any-
one with even a glimmering of scien-
tific knowledge holding a descent of the
dingo from the Chinese Pekinese. For
the canines belong to two distinct
families: the dingo to the Matins, all
long-muzzled dogs; the Pekinese to the
Dogues, of which the pug and the bull-
dog are outstanding examples. The dingo
certainly did come from Asia, for in the
foothills of the Himalayas still lives its
.cousin, the barkless, pack-hunting Dhole,
Jthe wild dog of India.
MORNING.
This is the hour when shadows freeze
Beneath thin insubstantial trees,
While last long splinters of the night
Yield, in the hollows, to the light.
It is the time when lovers part
And one heart leaves the other heart,
The mingled vapor of their breath
Disperses at the shadows’ death.
Rough fences for the horses’ necks
To rub, their manes shed frosty flecks',
Slow to the sheds the dull cows come.
And men curse fingers stiff and numb.
Behind the shed a white pear-tree
Shakes to the dawn wind blissfully,
The bashful sun that winks and glares
Brings bees and warmth to set brown pears.
A fragment hour, the first of day,
Of breezes tentative and stray,
Of dazzling cobweb's on the grasses,
Scarce to be known, so swift it passes.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


“Old-timer”: Sunday afternoon on the
station. Ddgs dozed in the shadows about
the hut; men dozed on the hut verandah.
Along the distant rise beyond the wool-
shed a line of dispirited wethers drifted
towards the shade of the hopbush on
the crest; up at the homestead the entire
family and household staff, with the ex-
ception of the boss, got itself into the
car and headed for the river, five miles
away. The boss ( went back into the home-
stead. Silence. A crow floated from
somewhere and roosted on the rim of
the elevated tank above the homestead
garden. The boss stole forth with a
pea-rifle, sneaked round the laundry and
fired. The crow zoomed away, crying
harshly, and the boss ran back into the
house. Slightly puzzled, two of the
hands watched the house for a moment
or two, then went back to sleep. Time
passed. Towards sundown the car re-
turned and disgorged the family and ser-
vants. About an hour later the boss’s
son came to the hut. Had we seen the
boss? “No. He had a shot at a crow
about three o’clock, but we ain’t seen him
since. Ain’t he ml the house?” He was
not. The boss’s son was worried. A
search was begun. Little Curl saw a
ladder against the elevated tank-stand and,
with the idea of surveying the surround-
ing country, climbed it. In the tank
was the boss, up to his shoulders in water,
a finger jammed over the hole his ‘bullet
had made. He was stiff and incoherent
until a couple of whiskies had unstiffened
him ; then he blew us all up for drowsing
our flaming heads off and not being able
to hear him yelling.
$ S?C *
“Mac”: I’m prepared to concede to
the Australian Encyclopaedia that lantana
might “improve the soil in which it has
grown,” but, with arms that look as
though a couple of wildcats have been at
them and a back that feels as though I’ve
been cracking stones, I won’t admit that
it “is easily destroyed.” If I could dis-
cover who first brought the pestiferous
stuff to Australia I’d impose the curse of
“ We’ll try a different hat tomorrow , Miss Ogilvie.”
my Irish ancestors on his descendants,
but it’s not easy to pin the guilt on the
right man. The abovementioned authority
says that the plant was “introduced as an
ornamental shrub from tropical America,”
and there is the possibility that Alexander
Macleay got it to add to his collection
of “rare trees, shrubs and plants from all
parts of the world” at Elizabeth Bay
House, Sydney, Other historians agree
that Major Archibald Clunes Innes was
the guilty party, importing the plant from
India. Innes, who arrived in Sydney in
1825 and was appointed commandant of
the penal settlement at Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.) in 1826, made his home at Lake
Innes. An extract from Miss Innes s
diary (1843) reads: —
I have just come up from the Bower,
where I have been all the morning weeding
the lantana plants, which appear as though
they will thrive well.
Thrive! If the Innes family could only
see their “ornamental shrub” now, and
hear the curses of Australian fruit-
growers (the shrub is a favorite breeding-
ground for fruit flies) and property-
ownfers faced with the job of clearing the
stuff!
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ve often wondered
how the original owners of those tick-
riddled ’roo hides (B. 10/9/’47) managed
to support so many parasites and remain
mobile. I’ve shot Toos whose hides were
like colanders, and they were mostly old-
stagers, with a fair turn of speed, against
whom only the best dogs stood a chance.
Tick infection apparently creates its own
immunisation, which is probably heredi-
tary. Once tried to augment my poultry
stock with a few chooks consigned from
Perth. My bush-bred birds introduced
them to the roosting trees, but within a
few days the newcomers succumbed to
tick. My own birds, tick-ridden since
hatching, remained unaffected.
* $ * ♦
“Esk D.”: It was early in the season
and Ossie and his mates had planned a
trout-fishing expedition to a mountain
stream in wild, timbered surroundings.
The others couldn’t get away till Satur-
day, so Ossie went ahead the day before
to get the camp ready. He had a fire-
place fixed and the tent erected by even-
ing, and decided to drown a couple of
worms till dark. The second cast rose
and hooked a 41b. brown, a real beauty
that set Ossie gurgling with excitement.
Forgoing fish ’n’ chips for tea, he cleaned
his catch and hung it in a sugar-bag from
a branch of a handy tree, ready to set
eyfes goggling when the rest of the party
came. The night was quiet and cool and
Ossie, after reading for a while, took an-
other look at his fish by torchlight and
turned into his blankets. An hour later
he was awakened by a stamping and rust-
ling, and hurried out to save the tent
being chewed up by a mob of bush cattle.
The last he saw of his fine trout was its
slobbery remains disappearing into the
salt-hungry trap of a scraggy old Here-
ford cow. But the unkindest blow came
when the rest of his party hurt their in-
sides trying to credit his story,
* !)! * *
“Billo”: Mourn the defunct kero.-tin
if you must, but hail the petrol drum.
With the top removed the 80gal. size
makes a sizable water-tank. Four, linked
together near the bottom with pipe coup-
lings, give a capacity that provides a real
standby for the dry months. Insulated
inside with boiling tar such a tank will
last for years. With the proper-sized
opening cut in the top, one makes a good
bush copper-stand. Failing the posses-
sion of a copper Mum can have such a
drum parted through the middle, using
the top half as a fire-box stand, the
bottom half as a boiler. Kept free from
rust, such a boiler will stand up to
numberless washing days. Parted through
the middle from top to bottom, one half
bolted on to a wheeled frame, you get a
barrow body that will take a real load of
straw or stable refuse. The other half,
with or without legs, makes a feed-
manger or a watfer-trough that will stand
plenty of rough usage. Provided with a
lid the same drum forms a feed-bin with
a one and a half wheat-sack capacity, rat-
and mouse-proof. Finally, laid hori-
zontally, with half the top removed to
afford a fire-door and a flue-pipe pro-
vided at the other end, any sort of petrol-
drum makes a good heating stove, cap-
able of taking plenty of wood, and of
warming the draughtiest bunk house on
the coldest night. The cut-out piece,
fitted with clips, can be used as a door
or a damper.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The old mare was
trundling us towards Echuca from
Koyuga, taking her own time. Mat and
I lolled in the sulky half-asleep. As we
passed Echuca racecourse the mare
snorted and shied, the sulky half-tipped
and shot me on to the road. When I
looked up Mat, soothing the mare, was
eyeing a young thing in blouse and very
short shorts who stood beside the road
holding a collie dog on a chain. “What a
silly horse,” she remarked. “Fancy it
shying at a dog.” Mat looked her up
and down and replied, grimly, “It wasn’t
the dawg she shied at.”
» * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Is “Betcha” (B. 24/9/’47)
sure that his possum was alive? I’ve
always found the silver-grey a very wary
creature in the daylight, when his strong
sense of smell gives warning of the
proximity of humans but his eyes see too
poorly to allay his fears and suspicions.
A half-grown joey that I captured and
caged in boyhood days always opened a
cajutious eye if I opened the door before
dark. An attempt to stroke him never
failed to make him “Spar up,” forelegs
held high like a boxer’s arm, long claws
pointing forwards, lips pulled back and
strong teeth bare. Once I called his
“bluff” —once only. I’ve had a whole-
some respect for a possum’s teeth ever
since. At night he was a,diffei£nt animal;
I could run my fingers through the soft,
fluffy fur, release him to play on the
trellis for an hour or two, arid catch him
whenever I wished. Over the years the
pretty creature forgot his fears in daylight
and became a household pet. Then one
day he trod on a rat trap in the feed
shed. Dad found him in his torment and
went to the rescue, Joey showed appre-
ciation by leaving an ugly bleeding
wound the size of a shilling on the back
of his benefactor’s hand,
* * * *
“Kelms”: A projected attempt by the
Westralian Fisheries Department to plant
the Pacific oyster on the south coast of
W.A. recalls the extinct Swan River
breed. Their shells, which have
provided the raw material for most
of WA.’s cement products, have
bfeen dredged as far as 20 miles from the
river’s mouth. The generally-accepted
theory is that their disappearance was
the effect of a change in the salinity of
the river water. Rottnest, some 20 miles
out from the Swan’s mouth, is literally
composed of cockleshells covered in
by drift sand. There are no live cockles
of that type jn the vicinity now, which
seems to knock the salinity theory flat,
for the whole of the Indian Ocean
couldn’t have become temporarily fresh.
♦ * * *
“Jaques”: A problem for the Dar-
winians and Lamarckians to wrangle over
is the inheritability of man-trained in-
stincts in dogs. The ratting urge of the
terrier, the tenacity of the bulldog, even
the various skills of working dogs, are
remarkable enough, but where does the
retriever get his instinct to fetch without
mauling with his mouth? Had tempo-
rary custody of a young Labrador which
"Blime, you’ve forgot the linseed oil.”
had been brought up as a children’s pet
and was innocent of any instruction in
the duties of a retriever. At the first
attempt Dan went back 100 yards to fetch
a stick I’ll swear he didn’t see me drop,
and when so ordered would sit beside it
until I whistled him. At the second try
he hesitated, looked around anxiously
and then brought the stick. Still un-
trained to the gun, he went rabbit shoot-
ing with me, froze behind me while I
stalked and aimed, then bolted forward
with the shot; he nearly went mad with
frustration when a miss left nothing to
bring back. His stunt with winged
bunnies was the most interesting of all.
He would pick them up gently, take them
to the nearest water and hold them under
until they drowned. The lesson of count-
less generations of training must have
been inherited to make the dog deny every
natural instinct to kill with his only
weapon, teeth, while his native sagacity
told him the wounded animal must not
live to escape,
* * * *
“Shavia”: Our draft was in Halifax
transit camp awaiting movement on the
j as t f a p of the E.A.T.S. route to England
when a couple of the boys were dis-
covered to be a.w.l. Hauled before the
C.O. on detention, they gave as
an excuse that they had been searching
f or the unit mascot, a blue kangaroo,
Queried about it, they went further and
endowed every overseas draft of Aussie
airmen with a similar mascot. Somehow
the nfews got into the papers, not only
Canadian but American and even Mexi-
can, with results which anticipated those
flying saucers. That blue Too was seen in
the snowfields of Banff within half an
hour of crossing the Santa Fe track. An
Arkansas traveller passed him shortly
after a Hudson Bay trapper reported
having just missed him in a trap-line,
Texas Rangers and red-coated Mounties
received eyewitness reports. I don’t know
how long it lasted, but searching for a
missing mascot was always a good excuse
for being a.w.l.—until the C.O. was re-
placed by an Aussie,
* * * *
“Anthropo”: I suppose the imposture
practised by the aboriginal medicine-man
j n pretending to suck a piece of stone or
a scrap of bone from the flesh of his
patient has been told hundreds of times,
gut the matter did not appear to the abo.
anything like as silly as it did to the white
looker-on. Many tribes barbed their
spears with sharp fragments of stone,
mostly quartz. In addition to being let
into the wood these were also fastened
into place with a gum of blackboy or
spinifex. Thrown with terrific force
such a spear was capable of burying
itself a considerable depth into the
human body. So the abo. surgeon would
be called in. His technique was simple,
First he cut off the shaft to a convenient
length. Then, the heat of the body 'hav-
ing somewhat softened the gum plastics,
he gently but firmly worked the spear
round so that the scraps of quartz be-
came dislodged and remained in the
wound when the clean spear shaft was
drawn out. Suction by the mouth was
next applied, those scraps close to the
surface coming out readily. Those
deeper in were often retrieved later when
the festering wound brought them to the
surface, though some deeply embedded
ones might remain to trouble the patient
the rest of his life. So when an abo. was
struck with an unexplainable ailment it
took no great stretch of the imagination
to picture a spirit enemy throwing a
spirit spear that left scraps of stone in
the invisible wound. To this wound,
visible only to him, the medicine-man
applied suction and produced the stone.
MOUNTAIN GULLY.
In the gully, in the shadows
Where the grey mists rise and fold
And the fern trunks, brown and hoary,
Stand up stark and gaunt and old!
Here the mottled, twisted branches
Droop where sunbeams never play,
And the stifled, lifeless creepers
Cling to trunks of dark decay.
Cold the earth and dank the grasses,
Sour the air that hangs below;
Smell of dead wood and of fungus
Where the damp dull mosses grow;
Clammy toadstools, mould and mildew,
Crumbling log and rotting leaf;
Never here the sound of birdsong
Soothes the gully in its grief.
Here, in silence, deep and lonely,
Desolation has its den;
Undisturbed by shout or laughter,
Far from cheerful haunts of men.
Old fem gully, brooding ever
In its sackcloth green and grey:
Mountain gully, steeped in mourning
For the golden light of day.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


INCOME Does it hurt?...
TAX! We all know it Does!
' j
You Can Ease it by Using the
Ever Ready Farmers’ 8 Graziers’ Account Book
Thousands of Satisfied Users throughout the length and breadth of
Australia, including Leading Banks, Pastoral and Dairy Companies,
endorse it.
Price, £3/4/6 Inch postage
Order your Book NOW from any of the
following agents:
“Elders Weekly,”
G.P.6. Box Di 63, Perth, W.A.
Elder Smith & Co. Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 287, Adelaide, S.A.
Elder Smith & Co. Ltd.,
P.O. Box 89, Geelong, Vic.
“Farmer & Settler,”
G.P.O. Box 39, Broadway,-Sydney, N.S.W.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies,
G.P.O. Box 768 K, Brisbane, Qld., or—
Ever Ready Account Book Co.,
G.P.O. Box 1649 V, Brisbane, Qld.
&«*
®°0 K
THE TOP PRICE
warranted for
your wool is assured when you're with A.M.L. & F.
because it leads in its standards of valuing, displaying,
lotting and auctioneering; because it has the confidence
of buyers as well as its clients.
Consign YOUR next clip to
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Fi:
inance Coy. Ltd.
« miiv. hi anywnu, 1000 )
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga.Moree. Henty and Hay.
I Inc. in England, 1863)
A 7.22.17
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock . . .
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders .. .
cf^\
• - Co&'
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour is purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes: 4058 Melbourne —758 K —712 F 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
CRAZCOS."
The War on the Fly.
“R. Ney”: The C.S.I.R. doesn’t believe
dead sheep have any effect on the sheep-
fly population. In Bulletin 217, it points
out that Lucilia cuprina, the primary fly,
is responsible for initiating strikes in
sheep. Secondary flies are attracted to
struck sheep but are of no danger in the
absence of primary flies, so control
measures must be aimed at Lucilia c.
Primary flies breed in the living sheep,
rather than in carcasses. In test carcasses
exposed at Canberra primary flies
developed from only six out of 27, with
an average of four flies per animal,
whereas an average of 10,000 secondary
flies developed from each carcass. On the
other hand, an average of over 1200
primary flies per strike was produced
from 26 struck sheep, and generally no
secondary flies at all.
Thus, says the C.S.I.R., the bury-
ing, burning or poisoning of sheep
carcasses is of no help in con-
trolling primary flies, and, in ( fact,
burying may increase their numbers
by reducing the numbers of their com-
petitors, the secondary flies. As has been
emphasised previously, hundreds of
primary flies may develop from the
maggots scraped out of a single strike,
and this live-sheep breeding ground is the
one at which to aim.
The C.S.I.R. has been testing repellents.
It confirmed Ceylon citronella oil as one
and found Java oil no good. An oil from
Huon pine and two eucalyptus oils were
repellent, but oil from ti-tree, buddah and
stinking Roger weren’t, nor was camphor
oil. “Chemically pure oleic acid was
repellent, while a commercial grade was
not. Two materials containing indalone
were effective repellents, as were also
dimethyl phthalate and 2-ethyl hexane
1,3-diol (612),” whatever they may be.
Yards and Shed.
“Brebis”; Further improvements to
that Handy Layout (B. 6/8/’47 and
10/9/’47): The shape of forcing pen is
wrong, as it would allow sheep to come
up one side to the race and turn down
the other. The forcing pen should have
one straight side continuing on into and
as part of one side of the race. The
other side comes in at an angle to the
mouth of the race. Actually the pen
should be a half V, not a full V. The
sheep can then be forced over on to the
straight side of the pen and driven (or
will usually run freely) straight up the
, race.
Check pens should be long and narrow
to allow greater clearance of sheep from
the drafting gates, and to permit cheek-
ing of drafted sheep by walking back-
wards through them and checking as they
go past. Permanent counting gates are
handy between large yards and at the
exits to various paddocks.
Most important of all —the race should
run north and south. Sheep are seldom
drafted in the heat of the day, so will
not usually be running direct into the
sun and on no occasion will the man
drafting be looking into the sun. The
foregoing and “J.M.’s” (B. 10/9/’47) sug-
gestions cover most of the yard essentials.
Every man has his own ideas as to
shed lay-out.
“Milton”: With all due respects to the
designer of those yards (B. 17/9/’47), I
must pull them to pieces and improve
them a little.
The approach to the receiving-yard
gates should have a wing or be on a
fence line; a 72ft. frontage with gates in
the centre gives but 36ft. on which to
hold a flock entering the yard. A gate-
"Noo ’and I put on when I sacked Tummas — ’e eats less an works
’ arder !”
way is required in the division' between re-
ceiving yards ; a sft. high fence is too low
for cattle. The gateways to the square
forcing pens are in comers; triangular
yards approaching the race with gates
out from the corner gives easier work-
ing, the sheep drawing better and forcing
is easier. A double forcing pen with a
division swing gate at the race entrance
enables the sheep to be kept running,
nearly the main factor in drafting sheep.
A race of about 18ft. or 20ft. long,
about 20in. wide at the entrance and
tapering to about 16in., depending
whether or crossbreds are
carried, facilitates sighting the earmark
and is extremely useful for classing prior
to drafting. The use of a single drafting
gate is only wasting time and labor, and
unnecessarily knocks the stock about;
use two gates, one 4ft. 6in. (right side)
and one sft. (left side), facing towards the
race; when swung open the heads to
be flush with the inside of race. Check
pens are necessary for drafted sheep, the
largest class to run straight through ; the
plan of yard requires another holding
yard right across the top. Steep slopes
in yards cause loose soil to wash away ;
a slight rise towards drafting gates assists
free running. The life of Sin. saplings
for the race is too short, even for inland
hardwoods. Use thicker ones, let into
posts with a length of Sin. or 4in. by £in.
iron to hold in place in case of renewals ;
avoid spikes.
Fodder Conservation.
Excluding parts of W.A.,
this country is being favored with excel-
lent seasonal conditions and lush growths
of crops are reported from many quarters.
Now is the chance for every Government
in Australia to concentrate on fodder
conservation, by Governmental buying
and stacking at points of railway strategy
throughout the land, and by encouraging
land-owners to place fodder in reserve for
the drought period, which will surely
come. Advances should be made to men
who are unable for financial reasons to
hold such stocks in reserve. The S.A.
Government has adopted a long-range
policy of this sort with sound results.
A few millions set aside for this pur-
pose would pay handsomer dividends than
nationalisation of the banks. With the
scheme must come a detailed plan for
the prevention of losses by various pests.
As a bank manager I have recom-
mended to my clients wherever possible
that they conserve stock feed, but for
various reasons this is not always possible
Water conservation and soil-erosion pre-
vention are vital to our interests, and with
them goes fodder conservation, sometimes
overlooked against the more glamorous
appeal of the first two.
Growing Kurrajongs.
“Farmer Bill”; For mass cultivation
the methods of H. S. Henley, Bassett
Downs, Cowra (N.S.W.), are successful.
There they scrapped the practice of grow-
ing trees from seedling to maturity stages
m the paddocks. Young trees over wide
areas cannot be properly tended, are in
danger from stock and don’t make as
much growth in five years as they do in
12 months in the nursery. At Bassett
Downs l seed-beds»can be easily handled—
usually 3ft. wide by 6ft. long. If 6in. are
allowed between rows and 3in. between
seeds, each bed can accommodate 140
seedlings.
Sowing is done in spring in loamy and
friable soil with plenty of humus in it.
Fresh seeds give highest germination;
they are not soaked or boiled. Two,
three or six weeks may pass before they
sprout, according to the season. Growth
of ybung trees may be up to 2ft. a year.
When 12 months old, seedlings are trans-
planted into the . nursery. In this process
an inch or so is cut off the bottom of the
root, all leaves removed, and the seed-
ling trunk cut off at from 2in. to 6in.
from the ground according to robustness.
These prunings force growth.
In the nursrry, plants are spaced 4ft.
apart each wuy. As they grow, lower
branches and shoots are trimmed off and
upper shoots thinned out. Young trees
trying to branch are trained back to one
trunk. An ordinary blowlamp is used to
burn off weeds. All trees remain in the
nursery till they are the right size for the
permanent site. Only care needed is cul-
tivation of the ground and pruning off of
lateral growth to force the trees upward.
Should the stem grow too slender, or
become hide-bound owing to drought,
a penknife runs a narrow slit down its
full length, penetrating only the thin outer
covering of the bark. If the trunk is
still slow to thicken, additional slits are
made.
No tree is removed to the permanent
site until 6in. in diameter. This means
that all trees, irrespective of age, present
a uniform appearance when planted out,
a necessary precaution for rows or
avenue. When kurrajongs are planted
in rows, square holes are dug 20ft. apart.
In many areas a clay stratum is met some
distance down. In this type of soil roots
seek edges and corners of the square hole
and spread into the soil beyond; in
round holes they have difficulty in spread-
ing and sometimes become pot bound.
Prior to transplanting to the permanent
site, the trunk of each kurrajong is sawn
off at 6ft. above ground.
No twigs or leaves are left on it. The
spade is dug in at 18in. to 2ft. around
the trees and the roots cut off at that
depth. In the new hole, the tree is
planted at the same depth as before. Water
is allowed to soak in as the soil is piled
back and the tree is “tramped” into
position. A second watering is given a
month later if no rain falls. Planted in
a line, these tree-trunks have the appear-
ance of fence-posts. Within recent years
they’ve grown thousands of kurrajongs


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation In America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —he
may be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Con-
dition Powders. Constant scratching is often a
sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO Condition
Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion to the
affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
w
ŵ
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN X.OTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY* ALL CHEMISTS
LOOK!
Beehive. Makers
Woodworkers
Carpenters .
Builders
Cabinetmakers
The "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
ẁ
Immediate
Delivery.
It saws, rips, cross-
cuts, planes, rab-
bets, tongue and
grooves, sands,
drills holes, makes
mouldings, etc., etc.
Ballrace mounted,
easily assembled to
detailed plan. All
mechanical parts, in-
cluding saw and planer
blades, £l7/10/-. Also
woodturning lathe outfit,
suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£l5/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
llin. cutters, £B/5/-, Jigsaw outfit, does
work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States.
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5256.
csVL&te Them,
H FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other In many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in c
*Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
OfieAolaS fProdurS
B
TRADE MARK
ml
1W
v Supplies
VETEMUL’
for
approx.
either
50 (owls. \
130 doy-old
, chicks.
1 light horse.
4 pigs, 1 cow,
5 calves.
8 sheep,
or 15 dogs
-and what it can do for HORSES
PIGS, CALVES, CATTLE, SHEEP
POULTRY and SHOW STOCK
Adequate amount* of vitamins A and D 3 ore
essential to live stock for normal growth, health,
production and reproduction. Vitamin Ais norm-
ally supplied by the correct natural feeds, princi-
pally green feeds, and vitamin D 3 by contact with
direct sunlight. Conditions, however, such as
difficulty in obtaining correct feeds, absence of
sun during dull weather, and the need, with modern
commercial production, to keep stock under cover
for varying periods, frequently result in stock being
deficient in either or both vitamins, A and D 3.
'Vetemul' Green Label, an emulsion containing
vitamins A and D 3 in highly concentrated form
will ensure Ihot stock receive these vitamins in
adequate amounts. 'Vetemul' mixes easily with
water and ANY TYPE OF FEED. Following is a
summary of the main uses of 'Vetemul.'
foe HORSES, when green feed is scarce ond whert
stabled for long periods.
fq r SHOWSTOCK, when, through hand feeding, the
supply of green feed is reduced ond when shedded
for long periods.
f or CALVES AND CATTLE, calves fed on skim milk,
dairy herds on dry feed, calves and cattle shedded
or during continued dull weather,
for PIGS, when fed mainly on skim milk or butter milk,
or scraps during dull weather when sties permit little
sunlight.
for SHEEP, where treatment is needed for vitamin A
deficiency diseases. Overseas tests have indicated
the value of vitamin A in cases of urinary calculi,
also for stud or show sheep brought in for hand
feeding.
for POULTRY, when green feed is scarce, during con-
tinued dull weather, in sheds which permit little sun-
light, or sunlight through glass which destroys sun s
vitamin value, for breeding hens and for chickens in
battery brooders.
’Vetemul' Is an emulsion, therefore does not have unde-
sirable muscular effects on any animal, or taint or make
oily, the flesh of bacon pigs. It mixes imore easily than
an oil ond can be used with ANY TYPE OF FEED.
If your local chemist, stock and station agent, produce
merchant or storekeeper cannot supply 'Vetemul write to
NICHOLAS PTY. LTD., nearest branch,
VIS/47
TlicholaA Mi/.JMa aghigbitubalevetehimary division
i
mi
m
m
Plan your new home COMPLETELY. Don’t wait for sewerage connec-
tions. The Hygeia Dissolvenator will provide all the conveniences of
city sewerage. , , ■ . .
The Hygeia Dissolvenator is a completely self-contained sanitary system
in which sewage material is chemically transformed into a sterile
solution that runs off into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY IS NECES-
SARY. Spare yourself embarrassment
flies —7- unwholesome odours and
dangers of disease. Thousands are
installed throughout Australia to-
day. Write for illustrated pamphlet.
FULLY GUARANTEED.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
N^T\^f I Hygeia S bissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dlssolvenators (Q’land), Woolworths Buildings, Adelaide
Co-op. Co., Ltd., 578 Little Flinders St., Melb.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S. Aust.), 81 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Western U Australia ; It. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray Street, Perth.
Tasmania: Wlm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart. .
KILL INSTANTLY with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF,
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading Rabbit
Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and A CERTAIN
KILLER
Available'from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
’PHONE. MA 6311. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDN ■
v-
v ,*n
4 '•
Eit Bassett Downs without half a dozen
losses.
Cylinder Wear.
“Endeeay”: All engines suffer from it,
inore and less, but it is largely the
operator who decides whether the rate of
wear is normal or abnormal. The fol-
lowing points should be watched:
Running-in: When delivered the engine
is stiff because all parts are fitted as
tightly as possible. Surfaces are finished
very smoothly, but under a microscope
they show small irregularities which have
to be worn down slowly, also the actual
motion of the piston over the cylinder
wall induces a “skin” to form which is
harder than the original surface. By
running-in carefully, all this is accom-
plished with a minimum removal of
metal. If excessive speeds are used in
the initial period the pistons may score,
and excessive amounts of metal be worn
from the bores; the engine may even
“seize up” completely. Careful running-
in does much to ensure a long, useful
life.
Warming-up: An engine gives its best
performance with the lowest rate of wear
if operated at the designed temperature.
It should be allowed to warm-up and
to come to full load gradually. The oil
in a cold engine is very viscous and
doesn’t flow as readily as when warm.
Consequently, less oil is thrown on to the
cylinder wall. Pistons and rings expand
on warming and give a better seal against
the cylinder wall. When the engine is
cold the petrol does not vaporise com-
pletely and there is a tendency to wash
the oil from the cylinder wall. The same
applies to engines which are switched
over to kerosene too soon. Most engines
today are fitted with “thermostats,” which
regulate the flow of cooling .water during
the warm-up period. In the past it was
found that engines which ran' excessively
cool wore very rapidly so that now most
engines are designed to operate with a
water jacket at about 180 deg. F.
Air Cleaners: Engines suck in large
volumes of air; 30-60 c.ft. per minute is
quite common. If the air is dusty, the
dust is sucked in and wears the cylinders.
Tractors usually operate under more
severe dust conditions than cars. In all
cases it is necessary to see that the air
cleaner operates efficiently ; it is common
now to have an air cleaner on the oil-
sump breather, and this also should be
kept in good condition.
Use of Oil: An engine should be run
on the lightest grade of oil which will
do the job; the enginemaker uses this
principle when specifying the grade to be
used. However, there is a sufficient safety
margin as a rule for one grade lighter
or heavier to be used without danger.
The trend is to use light oils, as heavy
oils take longer to flow through a cold
engine and consume more power, par-
ticularly on starting. A heavier grade
than recommended, will always cause
more sluggish starting. In a diesel engine
make certain that the oil is of the recom-
mended type, as these engines often re-
quire a special oil.
Change Oil Regularly: Despite air
cleaners some dirt does get into an
engine ; despite piston rings fitting tightly
there is some “blow-by” of hot gases
from the combustion chamber which tend
to burn the oil on the piston and form
“carbon”; there is always slight, but
steady, wear of cylinders and rings, mak-
ing metallic particles; traces of unburnt
fuel can always be found in the oil;
moisture is often present, particularly in
cold weather, and this causes heavy
sludges to form rapidly.
All these contaminating materials must
be removed periodically from the engine
by draining the oil and replacing it with
fresh. Most engines are fitted with filters
to remove a large part of the impurities.
On examining the filter a deposit will be
seen, and if this is not removed regu-
larly the filter will block; some filters
can be cleaned, others must be replaced
regularly. During use the oil deterio-
rates ; this does not adversely affect its
lubricating qualities but it does make the
oil more prone to sludging and gum for-
matipns on the pistons. A worn engine
burning a lot of oil fouls the oil much
more than a good engine, and if sludges
are to be avoided it is even more impor-
tant to change the oil in a worn engine.
Topping-up merely adds more oil to be
contaminated and cannot take the
place of the oil change. Chemical analysis
of the oils from a good engine with very
little topping-up and from a worn engine
with much topping-up invariably shows
that the former is in better condition.
Hints for the Farm.
“Joe Brime”: “Zake” (B. 13/8/’47)
and “B. A- Ker” (B. 27/8/’47), referring
to well-fed horses chewing bark, miss
the point that good feed of good quality
might still be deficient in certain essential
substances. Most likely mineral un-
balances are the cause of the bark-chew-
ing. It is always very noticeable in
country where calcium- and magnesium-
deficiency diseases are common. The
trouble generally starts in the early spring
when annual plants first start early rapid
spring growth. A lick of ground lime,
bonemeal, Epsom salts, starting at about
51b. to the 100 of salt and gradually in-
creasing the lime and bonemeal to about
201 b. to the 100 of salt, will often help.
Add molasses to get the horses to take
the lick. Start feeding it in August and
continue until October or November.
“C.A.A.”: Tubers left in the potato
field contaminate the soil, depreciate the
property and may spread infectious
diseases to neighboring paddocks. Cost
of picking up chats from the crop may
be recovered by using them for stock
food.
“Gip”: Sink a 3ft. diameter concrete
pipe in the river-bed when digging for
water. As the sand is taken out from
the inside, the pipe will gradually settle
down, the sides of the pipe preventing
the sand from falling in. The water will
seep in from the bottom and will be
clear and free of debris.
“Jock’s Missus”: Eggs readily absorb
odors and flavors of all kinds; while the
new-laid egg js cooling the air is drawn
through the shell into the air-cell. Under
these circumstances it is necessary to
have clean nests, as accumulated drop-
pings, mould, disinfectants, etc,, quickly
contaminate the egg.
“Gip”: In a hot, dry climate citrus-
trets will grow quite well if given four
gallons of water weekly. To’conserve
moisture in the ground dig in plenty of
dried grass, straw, leaves, etc., around the
trees; this also prevents the surface of
the ground from becoming hard. If the
leaves of citrus-trees become yellow, an
application of fowl manure will be bene-
ficial.


m
o
FESQ, CASSON 4
U M
VER PROOF
rCO PTY LTD
EST. 1848 (fri)
The saddest words in the world...
At some time or other in everyone’s life there comes regret at opportunities
missed . . . opportunities that have gone forever. Years afterwards,
you find yourself thinking of all the wonderful things that could have
been—. . if only . . .”!
Don’t let your regret in the future be: "If only I had the money ..
Because, right now is your greatest opportunity to end financial sorrow later on.
Seize this opportunity—start saving now! Control your spending
. . . avoid extravagance and useless luxuries . . . pay only the fixed
legal prices . . . and save every penny you can.
In this way, you help to ensure the prosperity and .
security you’ve always hoped for.
m
a
*
m
m
in
-I
m
wm
m
m
mi
SAVE FOR SECURITY
MAKE AN ADVANCE SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
Fourth Security Loan
INTERNATIONAL QUIZ: AUSTRALIA v. CANADA ... all stations, Friday, Oct. 17, at 8 p.m.
P45L.7.113
FACTS ABOUT THE FOURTH SECURITY LOAN
The Fourth Security Loan opens on October 29:
Bonds will be available in denominations of
£lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £1,000,' paying
interest at the rate of 3i% per annum for
12 years. You can make a fully-paid advance
subscription at once, and interest will be paid
from the date your application is received
by a bank. Invest to-day through any
Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
Legal Notice.
SNOWBALL.—IN THE MATTER of the Estate of
JAMES SNOWBALL late of Stirling Street Perth in
the State of Western Australia Retired Builder De-
ceased. —WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
GORDON BRUCE SNOWBALL son of GEORGE
HUNTER SNOWBALL late of Stirling Street Perth
in the State of Western Australia and a grandson
of JAMES SNOWBALL late of the same address or
the whereabouts of any child of the said Gordon
Bruce Snowball please communicate with THE WEST
AUSTRALIAN TRUSTEE EXECUTOR & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED of 185 St. George’s Terrace
Perth in the said State. The said Gordon Bruce
Snowball was last heard of in Sydney in the State
of New South Wales in the year 1914 he being then
23 years of age. —HARDWICK, SLATTER V AND
GIBSON, of Victoria House, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, Solicitors for The West Australian Trustee,
Executor and Agency Company, Limited.
Missing Friends.
IN the Estate of ELIZABETH DOROTHEA ROSEN
deceased.—PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Victoria made in Action 1944 No. 266 in which
The National Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany of Australasia Limited is Plaintiff and Henry
Richard Eames is Defendant Herman Rosen (or
Rose) and his brothers John, Robert and Maximilian
(sons of Herman Rosen formerly of Bendigo Butcher
and Margretha (or Margaret) his wife all formerly
of Bendigo Victoria or their respective legal per-
sonal representatives or the persons claiming through
any of such to be the next-of-kin of Elizabeth
Dorothea Rosen (the daughter of the said Herman
and Margaret Rosen) late of Koondrook in the State
of Victoria Nurse deceased intestate who died on the
third day of February 1943 are by their Solicitors
on or before the 28th day of November 1947 to come
in and prove their claims at the office of the Chief
Clerk Law Courts William Street Melbourne or in
default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said order The second
day of December 1947 at Eleven o’clock in the fore-
noon at the said office is appointed for adjudicating
upon the claims. DATED the 18th day of September,
1947.—ER1C S. VANCE, Chief Clerk.
aide-de-camp had missed him by yards
and yards. After that Porphyry became
a close friend of the aide-de-camp, and
of the Governor, and of the Governor’s
lady, and of the Governor’s children.
Porphyry had a charming voice as well
as a captivating manner, and the tradition
was (now only preserved by Miss
Margaret) that he was the very first “in
these colonies” to sing “Believe Me If
All Those Endearing Young Charms.” It
was Porphyry’s voice that first gave
Moore’s immortal melody to this new
land.
Miss Margaret was strong on the point
that Porphyry had rendered the song in
the drawing-room of old Government
House at Parramatta, and certainly not,
as detractors had been given to saying,
at the time and afterwards, under a young
oak-tree in the Domain at Parramatta ;
and in the moonlight with the Governor’s
lady as sole audience.
Nor had there been any breach with
the Governor concerning that same
song . . .
Porphyry never married. His picture
was preserved in the big red album with
gold clasps and much gilt otherwise —Miss
Margaret’s choicest possession, to be
shared nowadays with so few, for so
few could appreciate and understand.
This picture, from the early days of
photography and daguerrotypes, hardly
did Porphyry justice. But then again
Porphyry had ,by now lost much of his
youthful bloom.
He had a bald desert of forehead, rather
vacuous eyes, in place of those that must
have once flashed fire even as his pistol
did ; and he seemed to flourish only in an
enormous moustache that curled sym-
metrically like the handle-bars of a
bicycle.
Of Porphyry’s later years little was ever
said, though it might be deducted that he
sank at last into a feeble charge upon,
and the sole responsibility of, poor dear
grandfather.
That photo, was the only picture now
of Porphyry,
“Yes,” Miss Margaret would say with
a proud little smile, “that’s Porphyry!
And you must know of course that he
was fifty-three when that picture was
done.”
Miss Margaret always said “done”—
never “taken.” Nor did she notice some-
thing comically incongruous between the
picture and the story of Porphyry. Un-
doubtedly Miss Margaret looked right
through that absurd moustache to the
dashing young fellow in a plum-colored
coach and the baronet’s daughter, who
was also the daughter of a brewer.
And, perhaps, Miss Margaret saw be-
hind the absurd moustache a face not
unlike young Marcel’s ; or she may even,
so strong was her sense of tradition and
so vague her grasp of the present, have
seen, in a ghostly way, on Marcel’s
handsome young features the wraith of
whiskers like Porphyry’s,
Certainly, despite morality, Miss
Margaret was not quite so shocked as
she should have been by Marcel’s devo-
tion to the beautiful Kitty Roach; not
even when the scandal burst.
“"THAT Roach affair!” as in thought
A at least James R. persisted in calling
it, was far more serious than it had
seemed at first.
In its later stages it developed with
startling rapidity, and caused a stir in
Sunbeam and Laidlaw that did almost
everyone’s heart good, for there were so
many angles to it that there were few who
did not benefit in some way: those that
resented the Overley pride could moralise,
with great inner satisfaction, that “the
Overleys axe getting a knock,” or “it
always happens like that, sooner or later.”
Even that terrible and grim old quotation
“Pride goeth before a fall” was trotted
out.
Those that envied the Overley wealth
were heard to remark that “money isn’t
everything,” adding for emphasis “not by
a long chalk it isn’t.”
There were delicious rumors of a “bust
up” in the Overley home. It was even
said that Marcel had told his father that
if he were ten years younger he’d knock
him down. The pomp and circumstance
used here as trimmings did a little to
outweigh the vulgar untruth of the story.
There was a similar account of old
Roach’s having gone to Coogal for an
interview with James R., and been
ordered off the place.
Be it all as it may—the grand fact
remained that Marcel had cleared out
with Kitty Roach. And without doubt
the pair had become public benefactors
in their flight—especially if it were as
sinful as it was hoped to be.
And here again rumor raised its head,
and looked shocked, or frowned, or
grinned, or leered.
“Gone to Sydney . . .” “No, to Mel-
bourne . . .” “I know, caught a boat for
New Zealand.” “Not a bit of it, to
.Colombo.” “Not married or any-
thing “Well, not married, any-
way . . .” “You’re wrong there, married
secretly . . .” “Don’t believe it, not
locally . . “They’ll get hitched up at
a Registry office somewhere . . .” “A
civil marriage, is it? That’s a poor sort
of marriage, if you ask me . . .” “He
won’t marry her at all, you’ll see . . .”
And so on, with enjoyable variations.
Over tea-cup and cake, over beer and
whisky, through hair-cut and shave, the
lovers made their dramatic flight over
and over again. And everyone knew
exactly—and differently. But gone were
the lovers, and Sunbeam and Laidlaw
knew them no more.
JAMES R., crisp and brisk, drove as
regularly with his spanking bay
trotters into Laidlaw. He said nothing,
and you could read nothing in his face.
No sign at all—-but “he’s feeling it, just
the same.”
It seemed right that James R. should
feel it even if he didn’t show it. Pity he
didn’t show it though.
Miss Margaret was not downcast —not
a whit. People liked her, but they hoped
too that she would “show it.” She didn’t.
There weren’t of course many she could
talk to. But the big waves dashed at her
shores in vain.
Still. . . Little waves, ripples they were
really, spread over the world in which
Porphyry had lived,
“He should never have been named
Marcel —a name deriving from the female
line . . . Oh, yes, I admit these things
are a shock, when they happen . . . But
he should have been named Porphyry.
I’ve always said that. I always will.”


The Tasman standard of reliability and service is famous.
Our emblem symbolises efficiency, dependability,
attention to every detail which will make your journey
comfortable. Bookings can be made at any office of
Qantas Empire Airways or through leading travel agents.
T-E-A-L
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED -
UN AS.SOCIATJON WITH Q.E.A. AND 8.0.A.C,
t-me-
riotts-w
y- ccz* e
fy/j, ru&m&d' O-o wte-
ruzet/■&■ pybect/
red
wo
Prices : 30/-, 37/6, and 44/9
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
255 A George Street, Sydney
1/127
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT’S RÉMY MARTIN BRANDY
ẃ
ẅ
room and parking them beside the bed,
where his bare feet found them unerringly
in the morning.
When the rabbits began to hold steeple-
chase meetings over his netting, Uncle
turned guiltily to poison as the only
way of protecting his artichoke flock.
The rabbits, after a brief indignation
meeting, paid a series of stealthy visits
to the cookhouse, which more or less
decimated Uncle’s mustering staff.
To say that there were mosquitoes on
Uncle’s ranch would be an understate-
ment. The local breed was, he swore,
a four-engined job carrying a crew of
nine. His stout wire doors kept them
at bay for ten minutes, which was as
long as it took them to learn the art
of co-ordination. Five or six to a wire,
they twanged the strands apart like a
gorilla playing a harp, then lifted the
doors off their hinges to make sure.
It was a plague of fleas, however, that
finally put Uncle out of the artichoke-
raising business. In defence of what the
mosquitoes had left of his bloodstream,
'he tried to turn their active little minds
to higher things than food by teaching
them a trick or two himself. He now
styles himself “circus proprietor” on his
income-tax return.
Plum.
•J* "5*
“Why should a woman be the only one to
be well-groomed? How about that unshaven
face on the pillow of a morning?” —“New Idea.
The man who leaves a growth of stubble
Upon his face had better hop
Up bright and early, dodging trouble
Before he’s pitched out neck and crop.
B.
4* 4* ,* , ■**. „
“Tents for wharfies when it rams.
—Melbourne . Sun.'
And they are apt to give work a fly
when it’s fine.
4* 4* 4* • 4*
“Cooked provision hands, males.” — Advt.
Half-baked tradesmen need not apply
4* •4* 4* 4*
“City butcher left £15,000 estate.
—Sydney ‘ Sun.
He madfe both ends meat all right.
•i* 4* 4* 4*
Super-hero.
/ hope that I will live to see
A horse go climbing up a tree.
For then I’ll wed, and never rue it,
The man who takes the cart up to it.
Eve.
Emancipation.
w
P. M. LUSK.
A Drop in the Ocean.
ẅ
D. H. E.
Tone Is Everything.
ẁ
and trusted client. ’He waved the
lumbered one towards a lounge chair in
front of the charge desk and pushed a
hassock towards him.
“Well, Casey,” said the lieutenant,
“and what’s been Butch’s little peccadillo
today?”
“Hey, can dat piccolo stuff, 100-tenant,”
protested Butch. “What y’ think I am—
a low-class Dago? Casey come along just
as I was playin’ a toon on a commuter’s
skull wit’ me favorite instrument, a foot
o’ gaspipe. Hahnest, 100-tenant, I hap-
pened to see a tsetse fly snukkin’ up on
de guy’s boko an’ I was tryin’ to save
him gettin’ stung, see?”—he got up and
moved across to a leather divan. “Say,
100-tenant,” he copiplained, “can’t y’ get
a better pattern for dat moquette chair?
Dat apple-green clashes wit’ me orange
sports suit an’ pink shoit.”
“Thanks for the criticism. Butch. We
eim to please, you know. Now, I’ve
often thought something wasn’t exactly
right in the set-up here. I’ll have it re-
placed by a more streamlined lounge in
hibiscus-red Vfelvet. “Now”—turning to
the patrolman —“was he doing anything
else Casey?”
“Justh a troiflin’ matther of slittin’ the
“Same again tomorrow, Mr. Green?"
felly’s gizzard wid a razor an’ kickin’
fourteen of his teeth back somewhere in
his bean,” recited Casey, “and he”
“Aw, pipe down, Casey!” protested
Rntrb indiVnantlv “Charge me wit’
vagrancy’ifyouwarita, but don’t interrupt
y’r guest when he’s admirin’ a woik of
art”—he indicated a large gilt-framed
picture on the wall, then turned to the
” Vie mused *
“vmf mint it tenant?” ’
you Pamt h, 100-tenant /
Nope—that s a gen-u-wme Rcrn
brandt, Butch. The mayor specially
donated that from his private collection.
Worth fifty ‘grand’, an’ then some.” ,
“Y’don’t say! ” Butch yawned ; “well,
think I’ll turn in, fellers. It’s tirin’ woik,
massagin’ skulls wit’ a heavy bit o’ gas-
pipe. Let’s see, now. De Jacaranda
Suite vacant, 100-tenant?”
“Sure, Butch. A private bathroom with
hot and cold water’s been added to each
cell —sorry, suite —since you were here
last,” he said proudly. “Casey, let Butch
have the jacaranda-blue silk pyjamas and
dressing-gown.”
“Okay, chief. Come along, Butch.”
Five minutes later there came a roar
from the Jacaranda Suite. “Hey, what
kinder soivice d’ y’ call this? No ice-
water, an’ dis noo chrome bed ain’t got
no built-in radio. I’m a good minds to
give me custom to dfe sout’ forty-second
street prqcinct.”
“No, no, now there’s no need to be
so hasty,” said the lieutenant agitatedly
as he came up. “We can let you have
the Gold Suite —you’ll like that. Wall-to-
wall carpet, tasteful tapestries, indirect
lighting and panelled in polished walnut.”
“I’ll try it,” Butch grumbled, “but,
mind, it’d better be good.”
“I’m sure you’ll like it, Butdh. Now
here we are. Casey’ll bfe along shortly
with the monogrammed pale-gold
towels.”
“Okay, an’ tell him not to forget the
bath-salts —lavender.”
A few minutes later the guest was de-
manding another suite. “What’s dis cala-
boose cornin’ to?” he demanded testily
as the lieutenant appeared
again. “You oughta know
I can’t never sleep in a joint
wit’ a westerly aspect.”
“Sorry, Butch, Now I’m
afraid there’s a drunk in
the Mauve Suite. But there’s
a vacant suite in the eastern
wing. Walls and ceilings in
duck-egg blue, it’s been re-
furnished in sycamore, with
crystal chandelier, fluted
windows and a candlewick
chenille bedcover. Here” —
he tossed the keys to Butch
—“just select your own. It
isn’t right our guests should
be herded into their cel —
er —suites. That isn’t the
right humanitarian ap-
proach, You’ll find an
electric push-button on the
marble pedestal for room
service. Now you’ll excuse
me —I’ve got to go out for a
bit to select some etchings: some of our
guests have been complaining about the
quality of the watercolors
About an hour later when the heu-
tenant returned he heard a muffled sound
from behind the charge desk It was
patrolman Casey, gagged and bound As
the gag was removed he nodded towards
the® mp s y gl . l on . * he •,
Butch swiped the picture, he ssid.
“Not that that was much, lieutenant, but
he got away with the duck-egg blue
dressine-sown * ”
dressing goun. fio
* * * *
“Steaks without steers may be Science's next
gift to man.”
b . e evident one fears,
When details of this scheme are full,
That what was once the meat of steers
Will be in future so much bull.
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Our National Craze
On three occasions in the last few
weeks I have been accosted by a seedy-
looking individual and asked to append
my signature to a grimy petition for the
institution of night trotting (with betting)
in my N. S. Wales district. As I
am convinced that the country already has
far too many avenues for gambling, the
invitation was declined and the urger
shuffled off with obscure remarks about
my lack of the true sporting instinct.
Apparently he and his ilk met with con-
siderable success elsewhere as Caucus,
with McGirr dissenting, obediently rushed
a decision through to legalise the racket.
The mover had the effrontery to demand
that the necessary amendment should be
brought down within a month. Appa-
rently the bookmaking group is growing
impatient.
Supporters of horseracing in any form
usually put forward these arguments in
its favor:
It provides occupations for many
people. True, but they would be better
employed in useful production. Many of
them approximate to the “spiv” type —un-
desirables on the fringe of the game who.
liye by their wits. Morally and econo-
mically they are worthless —“white
trash.”
It improves our bloodstock. To what
end? Our trade in cavalry remounts with
India died many years ago ; the mounted
policeman is usually mounted on a motor-
cycle nowadays and the stockman can
obtain his station hacks without the costly
assistance of an Ajax or a Dhoti. The
only apparent purpose is the production
of faster racehorses to maintain the
volume of betting and to enrich stud-
masters, owners, jockeys, bookmakers,
“spivs.”
If provides a means of recreation for
the people. To most racegoers this re-
creation means struggling through a
crowded ring, shuffling in a tote window
queue, tepid beer in dirty glasses, a
distant blur of color and a 20-second
glimpse of the field in the last furlong or
sou For many it provides a medium for
displays of mob ugliness when their
fancies win the week after they made
them favorites. The “recreation” plea
is a furphy. Gambling is the sole in-
centive for 99 p.c. of racegoers, with home
rifts, embezzlement of employers’ funds
and misery at the end of the road for a
startlingly high proportion of them.
It provides an outlet for -the average
Australian’s love for, and knowledge of,
horses. That is laughable. It may have
been partly right earlier in our history,
but nowadays, with over 50 p.c. of our
population penned in the mainland capi-
tals, the average Australian is a city-
dweller who wouldn’t know one end of
a horse from the other. His knowledge
of the animal is confined to printed
records of its track times, weight-carrying
ability and performances, collected for
him by newspapermen whose inaccurate
forecasts are sought by optimists intent
on living without working. The myth of
our love for the horse was exploded long
since. 4Slot 10 p.c. of us could ride one;
not 5 p.c. wish to.
I haven’t yet heard of any useful pur-
pose served by the trotter, but no doubt
there are enthusiasts who can rationalise
his existence. Actually he is as useless
as the greyhound, and I’ve yet to see a
quadruped with less reason for living than
that futile animal.— Barwon (N.S.W.).
Parable
A certain ruler had a servant and he
said unto him; “All that thou earnest
above a fixed sum will be taken away
from you in taxes. Wilt thou continue
to labor after that sum has been earned?”
And the servant answered: “Not ruddy
likely.” And the ruler said: “Four ordi-
nary days shalt thou labor to earn that
sum, but if thou workest on Saturday
it shall be accounted to thee as two days ;
therefore choose whether thou wilt work
four days apart from Saturday or three
days, including Saturday, to earn that
sum.” And the servant straightway
answered; “I will work three days, in-
cluding Saturday.”
And the ruler said: “By so doing thou
wilt bring a famine upon the land. Be-
hold, the people will perish while thou
foldest thy hands.” And the servant said;
“Verily I am even as other men who
toil not nor spin without reward. Yea,
even, the rulers reap where they have not
sowed and heap up riches and goods
while the people cry aloud for homes.
Nay more, if thou wilt give me the wages
of two days for Friday, also, then will
I work only two days in the week.”
And the ruler said; “Go to, do as
thou wilt, but in return thou must praise
me in the city gates, saying, ‘Behold, a
good and faithful ruler. Let him enter
into the council chamber, there to enjoy
riches and power and glory all the days
of his life.’ ” And the servant said: “So
be it,” and went his way.— Apocrypha
(S.A.).
“Had” It
About the time 40-odd American
migrants arrived in Sydney, an ex-sub-
marine U.S.A. rating and his wife pub-
licly expressed their willingness to ex-
change their Perth fish shop for two
tickets to America. The owner was re-
ported as saying, “If we liked to deal in
blackmarket meat and use underhand
business methods, such as selling shark
for snapper, we could make a living.”
He had just been told by the Rationing
Department that his application for per-
mits for rationed food for catering pur-
poses had been refused because “the
applicant must be a discharged service-
man of the 1939-45 war and have been
engaged as a principal in the eating busi-
ness immediately before enlistment.”
The shopowner asked with some point,
“Minister Calwell recently went abroad
seeking 70,000 migrants. When these
arrive here, who is going to feed them?
Are established cafes and eating houses to
have a monopoly? Mine is the only
eating house within a radius of three
miles.”
He also instanced these “hurdles” set
up against an American who had served
his country during the war; .(1) He
couldn’t get a job as a temporary postman
during the Christmas rush because he
was not a British subject, (2) the Taxa-
tion Department wouldn’t employ him
for the same reason, (3) city stores banned
him because of preferential treatment, and
(4) he couldn’t get a house permit from
the Workers’ Home Board or preference
in any land scheme.
What about it, Mr. Calwell? — Ah
Gee (W.A.).
The Way to Do It
, Recently, after considering the state of
the nation and the ways of its Govern-
ment, I toyed wjth the idea of going to
Canada. I called at the office of the
Canadian Trade Commissioner in Sydney
and received the utmost consideration and
courtesy. It wasn’t a matter of sales-
manship—my informant summed up the
situation in Canada very fairly, pointing
out all the disadvantages and voluntarily
going into such details as education for
my son, climatic suitability of the various
provinces and a dozen other points
I’d never thought of. It was neither a
warning nor an invitation —simply an
able summing up of the problems that
migration would raise, plus suggestions
as to the best ways of overcoming them.
When I left he gave me a collection of
“Cottage pie you call it? Then why ain't there anyone at 'ome?"
Canadian newspapers, statistics and other
information.
About a week later I received a letter
from the Australian representative of the
Canadian Pacific Railway;
My object in writing to you is to inform
you of the Canadian Pacific facilities avail-
able in Canada. If travelling over our
lines, I will be only too pleased to plan
an itinerary to suit your requirements. All
rail and sleeper fares may be paid here in
Australian currency. As you are no doubt
aware, the opportunities for travel across
the Pacific are very limited, but if a pas-
sage is obtained in the near future may I
suggest a call at the above address to discuss
your rail-travel arrangements.
I wonder if Australian agencies abroad
offer intending migrants the same courtesy
and straightforward advice that I re-
ceived from the Canadian representative.
From what I’ve heard and read, X don’t
think so. And the letter from C.P.R.!
Salesmanship, naturally, but courteous
and helpful. C.P.R., of course, is a
private enterprise. I can’t imagine any
of Australia’s Government-owned rail-
ways making similar encouraging offers
to prospective migrants— not that they
have very much to offer. — Oliver Filter
(N.S.W.).
“Jolly Fellows”
The vast “industry” of entertaining the
public during its new-found leisure
absorbs the brainpower of a whole army
of people who organise the fun and
games, sports, lotteries, stage, radio and
screen programmes and time-wasting
stunts generally. They are usually jolly
fellows, and their financial success is the
measure of their popularity.
Those who can invent the quickest ways
to pass time and spend money are the
new aristocracy. In exchange for stimu-
lants, thrills and wisecracks they collect
salaries which dwarf those of scientists.
Wealth, fame and adulation are the re-
wards of catering for the frivolous tastes
and jaded appetites of the revellers.
Who is game to round up these people
and put them to work? Certainly not
the politicians. If the production and
distribution of amusement were controlled
the workers would have time to think for
themselves, and to put the acid test of
reason on the gold bricks and golden
ages now being offered them in place of
building bricks and commonsense com-
forts. — Bored (S.A.).
Comic Strips
One beneficial result of the latest im-
port restrictions will, I hope, be a big
reduction in the quantity of “comic-strip”
material of American origin.
The idiom and sentiment of this literary
trash are, or should be, entirely foreign
to the normal healthy Australian, but
the extent to which it is used in our
papers suggests that those responsible are
entirely unconcerned as to its effect upon
impressionable young minds,
A Melbourne newspaper produces an
excellent children’s weekly supplement
which is entirely Australian in sentiment
and authorship. Much of it is produced
by Australian youngsters, and the whole
thing is a credit to Australian journalism.
After this feature had been running
with increasing success for some months,
another Melbourne sheet announced with
great jubilation that it was bringing out
a “supercomic.” When it arrived it con-
sisted almost entirely of imported comic-
strips, drawings of semi-nude film-stars,
and sob-stuff about the “films.” One
issue I examined contained no fewer than
12 imported features, the single Aus-
tralian feature of any note being a com-
pletely written serial set in New Guinea.
Australian children deserve the best
that Australian ■ authors and artists can
give them. It is up to the editorial staffs
of our papers to see that they get it.—
Wusslean (Vic.).
The Cleric’s Pay
“Columba” (B. 3/9/’47) omitted to
give all the figures when discussing
rectors’ salaries. He made no mention of
the fact that a rectory is provided rent
free as well as a car or an allowance
for the upkeep of one. Also, there are
christening, wedding and burial fees,
which must add up to a tidy sum over
12 months.
The parochial council pays gas, elec-
tricity and telephone bills as well as
keeping the rectory in good order. In the
country, parishioners are very generous
with gifts of food, and there are a
number of free meals for the parson.
Children of the clergy receive their educa-
tion at church schools at reduced fees, so
with everything taken into account the
position is not so bad as it would appear.
If prospective clergy knew the condi-
tions before they began their study for
Holy Orders, why the complaints now?
—R.W. (N.S.W.).
Young Australians
I was surprised to read that surf
Apollos were receiving lamp tan in city
gymnasiums, before appearing on the
beaches. What an admission!
Although these famous “sun-gods” are
acclaimed everywhere, there appears to
be little reason for it. I’ve travelled over
most of Australia and have no illusions
as to where the best men are to be found.
They are in remote country places where
the simple life obtains and where natural
sunshine and abundance of oxygen impart
the real physique and complexion that is
inseparable from the word Australia.
Country boys are often shambling and
unpolished, but their bright eyes, clean
limbs and lack of egoism are something
to be proud of. The “boys from down-
under,” so often admired in other parts
of the world, are not beach Apollos but
the product of eucalyptus areas and
the wide cattle country of the north.—
M. T. V. R. (N.S.W.).
Road and Rail ‘
I’d like “R.H.G.” (B. 6/8/’47) to prove
that our economy is not contracting.
But even if it were static I’d still insist
that we can’t afford to go on squandering
unlimited millions on more and more
ways of carrying things unless we can
produce much more to carry. Nor can
we go on increasing our dependence on
supplies from foreign sources carried in
foreign ships, when such supplies and
ships are right outside our control and
can be stopped at any time. Nor, for
the same reason, can we allow our
domestic systems to fall into decay.
Surely “R.H.G.” learnt that lesson from
the recent war.
If he doubts the seriousness of the
present situation, let him take a graph
based on the yearly ton-miles the nation
moves in the conduct of its business and
see which way the curve is going. Let
him add to it curves showing the capital
investment in all forms of transport, the
interest and other charges on such capi-
tal, the number of men engaged directly
and indirectly, and the expenditure of
foreign exchange involved. Let him do
the same for the three forms of trans-
port separately and add another series of
curves showing the proportion of taxa-
tion devoted to transport over a period.
Then let him total up the whole cost of
the business and equate it to the amount
of work done in ton-miles. If he still
doesn’t believe me I’ll buy the drinks.
Does he suggest that the phenomenal
rise in outlay has been followed by a
corresponding rise in output? Does he
suggest that the millions spent on roads
and airfields have brought us more food
or clothing or opened up more territory
in any way commensurate with the out-
lay? In my own country in the East,
the passing of horse and river transport
has been followed by a catastrophic fall
in production despite tremendous sub-
sidies.
One of our major problems is the pro-
duction of relatively low-valued 'com-
modities like wheat at uneconomic
distances from the coast, a matter of the
greatest importance if we are to populate
our “outback.” Does “R.H.G.” think
that his scheme for millions of pounds-
worth of roads will do anything to solve
that problem? In the past, railways took
things like that in their stride and covered
the loss by adding a bit here and a bit
there wherever the traffic could stand it.
It was a good and relatively painless
system and it worked well for years until
road transport wrecked it.
I believe that we cannot afford to
abandon all production which cannot pay
the cost of road transport. I may be
wrong. I may have learnt nothing after
20 years on the technical side of trans-
port, road, rail and sea, but if I’m right,
it means we have to retain our railways.
As we cannot retain them in their present
deplorable condition, we’ve got to put
them in order. Whatever we do, we
have to pay for them and the easiest way
of doing that is by way of revenue.
Therefore we must permit them to handle
not only deadhead traffic, but also enough
of the good stuff to enable them to pay
their way and meet those fatuous “in-
terest” charges which, while seemingly
of overwhelming importance in the
economics of State railways, are com-
pletely unknown to their competitors.
If all that means restriction which will
prevent “R.H.G.” from using “his” road
in competition with “his” railways, it’s
most unfortunate, but if he can suggest
a practicable alternative, a lot of people
beside myself will be delighted to hear
of it— L. I. B. (Singapore).


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
Rates, payable in advance (including postage),
are: —
12 months £l4 0
fl 12 6
3 „ 10
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —
12 months ..
6
15 0
8 0
4 0
The Banks
I was staggered by Mr. Chifley s state-
ment that the trading banks refused to
co-operate with the Government towards
the relief of unemployment and the
revival of business during the last depres-
sion. One might ask “What is co-opera-
tion?” If two men were out walking
and one fell over a thousand-foot cliff,
would it be co-operation for the other
to jump after him? He probably would
look for a safe descent, and that is what
the trading banks did. As a result, the
depression was less severe and less endur-
ing here than in any other important
country in the world —as Mr. Chifley
knows.
In 1931, the Labor Governments—both
Federal and State —had lost the confi-
dence, not only of the business world, but
of hosts of their own supporters. Fortu-
nately, or rather because they deserved
it, the trading banks had retained that
confidence, notwithstanding the failure of
the Labor-controlled Government Savings
Bank of N.S.W. Consequently the trad-
ing banks were able to, and did, mightily
assist the Government with huge amounts
of money. This was at a time when
Government stocks were so low in price,
and confidence in Governments was so
weakened, that any attempt to float a
public loan would have been a howling
farce. This can be proved from the
records of the times, and is likewise well
known to Mr. Chifley.
The banks handed 20 millions in gold
to the Commonwealth Treasury—not
paper shinplasters, but bright yellow gold
from the mines, worth about 50 millions
of our present paper money. They made
another 20 millions of money available
in London to keep Australia from default
overseas. Official statistics show that be-
fore this country was fully out of the
depression, the trading banks were hold-
ing, one way and another, over 100 mil-
lions of Government paper and promises.
Wasn’t that co-operation? Does Mr.
Chifley know the meaning of the word?-
He takes the credit for keeping our
economy stable over the last seven years.
He doesn’t mention the price, but the
housewife, the houseless and the over-
taxed and over-“controlled” know it too
well. Nor does Mr, Chifley mention the
British Government, which, as arranged
by Mr. Menzies, bought our wool, wheat,
butter, meat and metals. As it happens,
the greatest failure was in the field of
Government finance. It was inflationary
to an extent which can never be justified.
Mr. Chifley is talking of another depres-
sion. If there is one, and if the trading
banks are destroyed, it will take more
than Mr. Chifley and his wild socialist
schemes to get us out of it. —R. H. S. (Q.).
In my 47 years with the banks I have
never known any honest client to be
unduly harassed. In times of stress when
depositors are withdrawing their money
it has been necessary te call in some
advances. That is always done most re-
luctantly, as it estranges clients who have
been looked on as friends for many years.
When depositors want their money, how-
ever, the only source from which it can
, be obtained is from those to whom it has
been lent. Foreclosures under mortgages
are few and are resorted to only when the
position of the borrower seems hopeless,
and advancing him more money means
adding to an already known loss.
It is absurd to say that the banks
engineered the depression. If the country
is prosperous the banks are prosperous.
If the country is in the doldrums the
banks are in a bad way ; and nobody will
charge that the men at the head of the
banks wish to see their institutions losing
business which they have taken many
years to obtain.
The crisis of 1893 was the “bust” fol-
lowing the boom years in the late 1880’s.
One great trouble then was the fact that
the Australian banks held very large sums
of Scottish deposits which were repay-
able in London. These deposits were
due for payment on the quarter day.
Before that date one or two Australian
banks had closed their doors and it was
known that Scottish depositors would
withdraw all deposits due on May 15.
In the circumstances the banks, or
the great majority of them which were
still open, decided to close their doors
before these withdrawals could be made.
Three or four of the big banks remained
open and were assisted in overcoming the
crisis by the action of the Government,
which made their notes legal tender.
Many trading banks went out of business
at the time.
The 1930 depression came to us from
overseas and was world-wide. The banks
did their utmost to help clients during a
most trying time, but they could not do
impossibilities. Since that depression
passed (and Australia was out of it be-
fore any other country) the trading banks
have conducted their business to the
complete satisfaction of thousands and
thousands of clients. Had these people
been dissatisfied they were at perfect
liberty to transfer their business to the
Commonwealth Bank.
In view of the charges against the
trading banks it would be interesting to
know if at any time during the last 30
years the Commonwealth Bank has found
it necessary to foreclose on any of its
mortgages— Retired Banker (N.S.W.).
Intelligence Tests
The application of the Rorscharch
technique (B. 17/9/’47) to Luftwaffe re-
cruits sounds rather impressive, but in
practice the results were not so good. In
the early part of the war the R.A.F.
never worried much about such theories,
but got on with the job of teaching
“You ’op outside and watch the fun , Teddie.”
young men to fly, providing them with
superior planes. The intensity of the
course separated the sheep from the goats.
Just seven years ago the much-vaunted
Rorscharch-tested Luftwaffe took a sound
thrashing from the R.A.F. in a decisive
battle of the war.
The fact that there was a low wastage
in the German Army does not prove the
worth of the Fritz system—the Allies did
win the most important battles. Maybe
someone at headquarters has had the
coutage to toss out some of these so-
called psychological theories and begin
to apply practical methods to the training
of recruits.
Much of this psychological drivel re-
minds me of a completed crossword
puzzle where the reader has to supply
the clues, across and down. All these so-
called tests provided a number of officers
and men with good cushy jobs during
the war. Men enlisted for a special pur-
pose, such, as dispensers, had to waste
time answering silly questions, putting
nuts on bolts and matching pieces of
string, when they joined up. No one has
ever been able to explain why this was
necessary.
The First A.I.F. did not have the
benefit of such tests, but its members
made a name for themselves.-—S. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
The Army
Surely Mr. Chambers is not puzzled
at the shortage of recruits for his army.
The memories of quagmires and dumps
which went under the name of camps, of
disgusting conditions of mainland staging
depots, of frightful food men had thrown
at them, of unreasonable distinctions be-
tween officers and men, and of endless
red-tape are too strong with ex-service-
men for them to enlist again.
Our equipment in the islands was
pathetic. The Americans arrived with
everything designed to meet tropical re-
quirements : light telephones, light cable,
jeeps, ample food, everything. We arrived
with 1914 models, saloon cars for officers
and bullybeef. Men in my own unit had
to depend on the Americans for equip-
ment and for food.
At one camp on the Atherton Table-
land the officers in our unit had a dance
floor in their mess. Ours didn’t even
have a roof and it was in the rainy season.
The Government doesn’t seem to mind
how much it spends on some things, but
when it comes to the troops it seems to
scratch for every penny. Any R.S.L.
meeting could tell Mr. Chambers why he
can’t get recruits. His advertising cam-
paign was all right—it’s his army that is
all wrong.—J. V. H. (N.S.W.).
Fighting Another War
After my discharge from the A.I.F. in
1946, Repat. assisted me to start in busi-
ness as a maker of custom-built sporting
goods. I had to register as a manu-
facturer and pay sales tax on what I
produced. I soon found, however, that
as most of my raw materials were tax-
free, this merely raised the cost of my
goods. I then found that, as I worked
at home, did not employ anyone and
had an annual production of less than
£5OO, I could be relieved of paying sales
tax on what I sold and would have to
pay it only on what I bought. I made
application, was told to pay tax on my
stock of raw materials, did so, and was
informed that I was now freed from my
liability.
Now, I have just received a notice from
the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation to
the effect that I haven’t paid my s.t. So
1 shall have to waste another hour or so
of my time by calling at his office and
pointing out that it has all been arranged.
To keep up to date with my business
I ordered a trade journal published in
the U.S.A. for an annual subscription
of Bs. The Customs seized the
copies when they arrived, told me that
the magazine was on the prohibited list
and demanded to know how I sent the
money to America. When I called on
the Australian agents for the journal
they told me they held the permit and
that everything was all right. But that
wasn’t good enough for the Customs. I
had to fill in forms in sextuplicate as an
application to be allowed to receive this
trade journal. I’complied and was told
that I could now import the paper.
Next month the Customs sent me
a notice to the effect that they had
seized a paper addressed to me which was
on the list of prohibited imports and
demanded to know how I had sent the
money to America, etc. When I called
at their office and explained that we had
already been through this senseless busi-
ness once, and asked how many times
more I had to do it, I was able to get
the paper..
On another matter I sent a letter to an
official in Canberra. To be of any use.
the reply had to come within two weeks.
It arrived two months and five days after
my letter had been sent. — Forty-Fiver
(S.A.).
The Cowra Distillery
Give the devil his due—that grain
distillery (B. 24/9/’47) turned out some-
thing like a million gallons of power
alcohol. In common with everyone liv-
ing within five miles of the place, I can
swear by my nose that this was so. Lack
of wheat, due to crop failures, put it out
of action. Nor is it strictly correct to
say that the innards are to be pulled out;
the proposal is to convert the boilers in
situ to run electricity generators. Local
farmers, blessed this year with the promise
of excellent crops and dubious of the
Wheat Board’s ability to handle them,
expect the silos at the distillery to take
care of a few thousand bushels.
I have heard the place called a poli-
tical white elephant. There is nothing
white about it. From the look-out at the
top of Cowra’s “Billygoat Hill” today
there is the most beautiful vista of fertile
countryside seen for years —the town,
rich in trees, nestling under the hill, the
Lachlan in its winding avenue of great
gums, and beyond, stretching to a distance
of blue hills, the unbroken emerald green
of the valley, shot through with the gold
of capeweed in massed bloom. Plunk
in the middle of the picture is an eyesore,
the black ugly misshapen bulk of the
distillery. I believe in the decentralisa-
tion of industry, but spare us from Gov-
ernments with no eye for beauty. This
place looks as bad as it smelt — Hist
(N.S.W.).
Disposals Sales
There is ample warrant for an investiga-
tion of Army Disposals Sales. Grouping
unrelated items is one feature that calls
for inquiry. I have myself seen
a dozen excellent radio-communication
receivers grouped with a large number
of almost useless electrical switchboards
and sold for only a nominal figure. Had
the receivers been advertised and sold
separately they would have realised much
more than they did.
Another buyer bought a case shown
as “cotton waste” for next to nothing.
Examination showed that it contained
hundreds of small radio valves, each
worth more than was paid for the case.
A large business organisation with
which I deal has given up sending a
representative to these sales. It found
that if it evinced interest in any particular
offering, its buyer came up against a well-
organised group, which in due course
would offer to sell at a profit. Now the
firm examines the disposals lists, sees
what it wants, fixes the price it will pay
and then rings a member of the buying
group. It gets what it wants that way.
Incidentally, how much do auctioneers
know about the value of the goods they
offer? Quantities of valuable radio
equipment, sold as scrap metal, have
finished up on the market at retail prices.
—C.R.O. (N.S.W.).
4
Root of the Matter
A wheat-farmer has just told me that
he has one of the best crops ever in
sight, but is worried about harvesting it.
Bags are 255. a dozen and scarce at that,
and harvest hands, if you can get them,
want £3 a day clear of tax and full keep
as well —before the war bags were about
Bs. a dozen and harvest labor a pound
a day. On top of all that Mr. Pollard
has sold the farmers’ wheat to New
Zealand at one-third of the present export
price.— Bogan Joe (N.S.W.).
During the war I produced as much
food as I could. To an annual production
of 2000 bags of grain, 10 bales of wool
and 150 fat lambs, I added 25 heavy-
weight baconers, 1000 dozen eggs and a
quantity of cream. Now because of high
taxation and lack of labor (I’m willing
to pay award rates for any available), I
have long since disposed of all my pigs,
turned all the cows out, with the calves to
run with them, and let my egg pro-
duction fall to half. I’m also thinking of
cutting out grain production entirely and
concentrating only on sheep. Everywhere
around me farmers are doing the same
—producing less than they could and did,
simply because of high taxation and lack
of labor and materials. — Tatiara-ite
(S.A.).
So “G.S.J.” (B. 24/9/’47), as an
Englishman, thinks Australians drink and
bet too much. Well, a Church’ com-
mittee reports that the British public every
week gambles £5 million on football pools
alone, and punting on the dogs has be-
come a national craze. I’ve just had
three years in England. Some of the
pubs in London are dreadful places, and
the noise and shouting of the drinkers
last until 10.30 every night.—W. B. P.
(N.S.W.).
Parents of children attending “free”
secondary schools (B. 24/9/’47) in
Queensland have to buy all their text-
books. In the “free” primary schools,
too, there is a steady handout for books,
writing materials, sports grounds, school
equipment, etc. Nor is that all. In the
last nine months I’ve forked out for five
teacher-presentations, and in only one
instance was the teacher connected with
the grades to which my children belong.
—Mark Time (Q.).
Running a mixed store we heard fre-
quent complaints about the cost of
fruit and the impossibility of buying
enough for the kids. But I’ve never yet
heard anyone say he would go without
smokes and spend the money saved on
fruit. A light smoker spends at least
3s. 6d. a week on tobacco, papers and
matches and more on beer and the pic-
tures. It is those who never begrudge
themselves these extras who complain
most about the price of fruit. — Mark
Time (Q.).
The “tied house” form of business (B.
25/6/’47) has some points in its favor for
chemists. When buying, a chemist must
have sufficient cash to cover goodwill; the
wholesale house agrees to advance enough
to complete the transaction, taking a bill
of sale over stock and fittings, and giving
two months’ credit for purchases. Thus
it gets not only interest but discounts that
would normally go to the chemist. That
may not seem fair, but it is worth for-
going such items to be one’s own boss.
—R. R. (N.S.W.).


m
11
: ‘lr
II
:S-
-HH|
;;
H
■
a
iii
mm I
Hi
Ml
*
m
%m
sm
I
11
A?
I : I
■
iiliil
. :
WM
mm
m
U
:
111
s--\
i:-f; -
■
i
■ i
■■,•••
i i
SB?
■ mm
m
I
■
I
■HHi
m
■
in
B.H.P. steel being teemed into ingot moulds
at the Newcastle Steel Works. In the back-
ground an open hearth furnace is being tapped.
Progress through STEEL
ŵ
ANEW ERA of transportation was heralded forty years ago by the “horseless carriage” from
which has developed the modern motor car. Standards of reliability and mobile convenience
have been progressively improved in the motor car’s evolution which has influenced sweeping
changes in our habits of work, travel and leisure.
Steel’s inherent strength gave the motor industry its first impetus, and steel’s versatility
today makes possible the streamlined beauty of the modern car’s design and operation.
To make an average six-cylinder sedan requires 3045 pounds of steel comprising 126 different
varieties. This weight of metal is reduced by the processes of manufacture to about 2000 pounds in the
finished car.
Due in large measure to the Australian steel industry’s progress, cars assembled in
this country contain as much as 76 per cent, of local materials.
In many other industrial achievements, steel has made an essential contribution
to progress.
In truth, no nation can be economically strong without the capacity to make steel.
'Fortunately, Australia’s steel requirements are assured by the productive capacity
#nd efficiency of The Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel Works providing,
& sound economic foundation for industrial progress.
*
n
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
'Offices also at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, London, Singapore, and New York
IRON AND STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W. SHIPBUILDING YARD, WHYALLA, S.A.
