

The Home of Seppelt. . .producers of
GREAT WESTERN Sp artying
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/’ VoL 68—3510
Wednesday, May 21, 1947
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Pest Office. Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
GLASGOW’S CATHEDRAL OF ST. MUNGO.
/"ILA SCOW’S great link with pre-Reformation days is this
historic cathedral dedicated to St. Mungo (also known as St.
Kentigem). It is a tradition that the ground where the cathedral
now stands was the centre of a community established by St.
Mungo from Fife. In the crypt of the cathedral is a beautiful
Gothic shrine said to mark his grave, but whether he was buried
here or not, his name is preserved as that of Glasgow’s patron
saint. This edifice was begun in 1197 on the site of a former
church of which Jocelin’s pillar is a mute reminder, but it was not
until centuries later —in 1446 —that Bishop Blackadder brought mxs
great building to completion with the rood screen and altars of
Holy Cross and Madonna Misericordiae. Among the interesting
facts connected with Glasgow Cathedral is that here was buried
the sister of Robert the Bruce. Near the cathedral is a house, also
dating from the pre-Reformation period, known as Provand’s
Lordship. Here on January 20, 1567, Mary Queen of Scots visited
Darnley before he died nine days later outside the walls of Edin-
burgh. Provand’s Lordship and the cathedral are Glasgow’s most
notable antiquities.


IMi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please tend, without obligation, your Hew Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised■ in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
8.8. 247 AGE
The Red Page
THE GREAT BLONDIN.
Dickens, with all his genius, could be
the most impossible ass sometimes.
According to Harold Scott’s The Early
Doors (Nicholson and Watson ; Moore’s
Bookshop)—a history of the English
music-halls —he attacked the great
Blondin. And Blondin was, in his own
way, as astonishing a phenomenon as the
novelist; a kind of genius, too, for. it is
not every man who can walk across
Niagara Falls on a tightrope.
Blondin, says Harold Scott, was born
in 1824, the son of one of Napoleon’s
officers. At the age of six he made his
first appearance on the stage as an
equilibrist, billed as “The Little Wonder.’’
At 35 he took his tightrope to Niagara
Falls and, as a showman, instantly be-
came the wonder of the world:
The event was witnessed by 25,000 per-
sons who had been brought to the Falls
by every possible means of conveyance.
They were regaled by the performance of
wonders far more complicated than the
simple crossing on a rope hung at an
altitude of 160 feet above the basin of the
Falls.
Midway across, Blondin lay on the rope
at full length, and then turned a back
somersault. The journey took him five
minutes to accomplish, and to the strains
of a band playing the “Marseillaise” he
landed safely amidst scenes of
enthusiasm.
He then made the return crossing. This
time he took a chair with him and, bal-
ancing it on the rope by two of its legs,
he sat in it; and, on one leg, stood on the
seat.
The British public at first disposed of
the phenomenon very simply by deciding
that Blondin was purely an imaginary
person. But later in the same year the
Frenchman convinced them of his exist-
ence by crossing the Falls blindfolded,
carrying a man on his back. “The name
of the hero who accompanied him,” says
Harold Scott, “has unfortunately been
lost.” Having performed this incredible
feat, Blondin, exhilarated, stood on his
head on the rope—still suspended over
Niagara Falls —surrounded by a pro-
tracted blaze of fireworks.
It should not be supposed, of course,
as “S. M. Herald’s” columnist complained
when Wirth’s woman lion-tamer was in-
jured in Sydney recently, that such great
showmen are hapless victims of society,
forced by a cruel public to perform their
feats of skill and courage. Blondin,
obviously, liked standing on his head
over Niagara. It pleased him. It was his
way of expressing himself. Even, one
might say, it was his “mission” ; he was
driven by some inward compulsion to
prove, once and for all, to what superb
extremes the art of the equilibrist could
he carried. It would have been an act of
cruelty to prevent him. On September
14, 1860, rejoicing in the presence of
Albert Edward, then Prince of Wales, he
walked across his rope over the Falls on
stilts. The Prince, it is recorded, was only
dissuaded from making the journey on
the equilibrist’s back by the urgent repre-
sentations of the Duke of Cambridge.
With its genuine bravery and with that
humanising touch of comedy that is in-
separable from the feats of showmen the
Niagara Falls story was too tempting for
Harold Scott to omit, but Blondin comes
properly into his narrative at the point
when, already world-famous, he was
engaged to appear at the Crystal Palace
for 12 performances at an inclusive fee
of £l2OO. Dickens made his attack at
that time in “Household Words,” fiercely
castigating the enthusiastic multitude for
»heir “morbid curiosity.” Harold Scott
says that Dickens “took up his favorite
(ournalistic pose of public moralist” and
one cannot help thinking that it was a
pose, and an unscrupulous one. Dickens
himself loved shows and showmen and
should have adored Blondin; but every-
body was praising the man, and the best
way to make “news” for “Household
Words” was to attack him.
Blondin, .of course, continued serenely
in mid air in spite of the criticism. He
strung his rope from balcony to
balcony of the Crystal Palace and
cooked an omelette on it. Also,
anticipating the favorite music of
“Tivoli” performers in Australia at the
present day, he played the march from
“William Tell” on a fiddle, dancing and
turning somersaults. At Sheffield he
wheeled £n 18-months-old lion cub in a
barrow across his rope. Then he played
the monkey in a melodrama, revealing,
so it was said, “mimetic powers of the
highest order.” And then, at the Al-
hambra, giving what might be called a
Victorian version of the thrills later to
be provided by Kingsford Smith in “the
Old Bus,” he carried passengers on . his
back from balcony to balcony for five
pounds a time. In his later years he
walked the rope less frequently, having
become interested in chess, horseman-
ship, agriculture and mathematics ; and
now he is remembered in England by a
Niagara-avenue on the site of his
demolished home, and by Harold Scott’s
book.
The Blondin story can hardly be called
“typical” of the material in The Early
Doors, ' for it is unequalled. And in its
extreme of skill and its courage it is some-
what extraneous to the ordinary function
of the music-hall, in which, as Harold.
Scott puts it, raciness is the vital element,
its purpose being to “Express the popular
voice.” Scott quotes with approval Max
Beerbohm’s analysis:
He found that the music-hall sought to
hold up to ridicule a life even more sordid
than that forced upon the majority of its
audiences; and further pronounced “with-
- out mitigation or remorse of voice” that
its laughter was based upon “a delight in
suffering and a contempt for the un-
familiar.” But he also showed, in his
studies of the greater artists, how subtle
was the transmutation of these elements —
how, in the work of Dan Leno and Marie
Lloyd, for instance, the selfish cackle de-
veloped into the good-humored roar.
Which reminds one, inevitably, of the
best of Australian music-hall comedians,
the ineffable “Mo.” How “Mo” com-
pares with the giants in Harold Scott’s
history it would be difficult to say; but
certainly there are presented in his stage
performances— not in his pale imita-
tions of himself over the radio —the
essential elements of the music-hall:
sometimes sentimentality and pathos;
sometimes, when the “lovelies” are on
the stage with him, what Harold Scott
describes as “the attempt to give the
picture-puzzle of life a richly romantic
and glossy surface” ; sometimes, if not in
“Mo’s” own performances, at least
usually on the same programme, that fan-
tastic music-hall patriotism which seems
to set audiences determined ,to do or die
in the tram on the way home; and al-
ways, and above all, that catharsis by
laughter of the “sordid,” the tragic and
the grotesque in human experience.
Beerbohm’s analysis, or Harold Scott’s
development of it, might have been
carried further ; for the purpose of music-
hall comedy is not merely to “purge”
daily life of its sordidness by carrying it
to a ridiculous extreme, but to show —if
that is not another way of saying the
same thing—that the, grossness of life is
not essentially sordid at all, but infinitely
funny. The music-halls, like the writings
of Rabelais, reduce life to its simplest
terms and show it to be comedy. The
great comedians nearly all had the trick
of “whirlwind entry” as if, like the figures
in some of Norman Lindsay’s water-
colors, they came rushing in from some
wild universe of laughter. Both “Mo”
and George Robey, incidentally, have
adopted the device of sudden appearance,
which, as far as Harold Scott can trace
it, was used by Dan Leno, and goes back
to the Elizabethan clown Tarleton.
For a career of typically Rabelaisian
significance the simplest example in the
The Early Doors is that of W. G. Ross,
who, round about 1840, first sang “Sam
Hall” at the Cider Cellar and won an in-
stantaneous and tremendous popularity;
for, reaching an extreme of bawdiness and
ferocity, the song was immediately recog-
nised to be vital for the salvation of
mankind. Take Ross and Blondin to-
gether and you have The Early Doors--
and the music-halls —epitomised: the de-
velopment to the extreme of any of man-
kind’s talents, and the “revealing cynicism
which, by bringing into comic relief the
unpleasant facts of daily life, removed
the sting from them.” This is the story
of the theatre at its humblest, but con-
taining nevertheless all the elements from
which its highest emergence must de-
velop ; a crude, healthy representation of
life, always attacked by moralists —who
are incapable of understanding that trans-
mutation by laughter is the opposite of
pornography—always, in one form or
another, persisting.
For two reasons The Early Doors is
not quite as readable as it might be: it
is printed on poor quality paper, and it
is crowded and clogged with detail. Both
disadvantages are inevitable, for all the
English publishers seem to be short of
good paper, and the author did not set
out to write an essay or series of essays
on the music-halls but a detailed history
—which, as such, is excellent. If you take
the book slowly or “browse about” in
it, it makes very pleasant reading, and the
crude, greyish paper, though not attrac-
tive to look upon, at least does not let
the print show through from the back of
the page, as is the case with a good
many recent books from abroad.
Sweet Confusion.
Most of the characters in Norman
Denny’s Sweet Confusion (Bodley Head
are seen through the slightly worried eyes
of Paul Merrion, and this—as the expedi-
ent often does—leads to Paul’s becoming
more of a question-mark than a character.
Paul is a publisher, in a small way;
bookish, sensitive, fair-minded, thought-
ful, and in love with Cicely, his wife, a
member of the wealthy Ellistone family.
None of Paul’s characteristics are in
themselves unreal, nor is his interest in
immediate affairs—England in the year
1938 and the vague, frightening glimpses
of an inimical world outside, Europe
spinning to disaster and the looming
shadow of war.
The trouble is that the shadow looms
too much ; put like that, it seems a part
of journalism, and, in any case, it has
not the merit of good journalism—im-
mediate, factual, day to day reporting.
It is all very well to be wise after the
event, but that is the province of history ;
literature must depend on fundamentals
the timeless passions and emotions, and
the infinite variety • and shades of their
expression.
The result is that Paul is colorless —a
mere bundle of abstractions, labelled
Tolerance, Commonsense, and so on,
the vehicle for the author’s considered
thoughts, without the author’s godlike
privilege of invisibility. Even when
Paul is perplexed, it is by cosmic diffi-
culties, and when he breaks with Cicely
and falls in love with someone else, it is
impossible to believe in him,
But as a mirror for the other characters
he does \vell enough. Cicely, masterful
and feminine, comes out clearly ; as does
Judy, Cicely’s friend and Paul’s mistress.
A Mr. Pinsett, as first reflected, seems
likely to be a comic—a kind-hearted,
shrewd, vulgar little man with a kind of
religion (a mixture of astrology and
pantheism) and a taste for marriage.
Treated in this light—a cheerful one —
Mr, Pinsett’s matrimonial and business
complications would have made the book
a light, bright, farcical comedy. But, by a
kind of revenge, Paul’s perplexities are
communicated to the author, who exploits
the mystical streak in Pinsett —seeming,
for a time, to make a kind of Messiah
of him. And then he loses courage, and
the story fades away to nothing.
All of this goes to make a book of no
great importance in itself, but interesting
as a symptom, a tendency of the age.
Paul, in his insubstantial aspects, bears a
resemblance to the perplexed, fair-minded
hero of Philip Gibbs’s The Middle of
the Road, and both Paul and Pinsett have
a startling likeness to Larry, the hero of
Somerset Maugham’s The Razor’s Edge.
All are post-war books, Gibbs’s and
Maugham’s being written about, and con-
cerning, the years just after the 1914-18
war, Denny’s, although it deals with the
years immediately prior to the second
world war, influenced by what may be
called the post-war spirit—the main char-
acteristics of which, if such intangibles
can be summed up in a few words, may
be defined as a hazy, groping kind of
search for something to believe in: reli-
gion, astrology, or the deification of the
State; and, associated with and under-
lying this, a deep pessimism.
The Middle of the Road was interest-
ing politically, but its literary value was
slight. Somerset Maugham’s book was
slighter still —its theme the search of a
young American, an ex-airman, for philo-
sophical reality, with formidable stretches
of dullness and a general exploitation of
theqlogy and philosophy in a slick, popu-
lar-science manner calculated to set one’s
teeth on edge. But Somerset Maugham
was an established author and playwright
and the book sold. Recently Hollywood
made a film of it—Hollywood would —
and, further cheapened, it is now showing
in Sydney, where it has been extravagantly
praised. Which, allied with the promi-
nence given to astrology columns in daily
papers, leads to the belief that Norman
Denny was on the right track, as far as
popular taste is concerned, anyway.
It is possible, of course, that there
is more than pessimism and credulity in
the movement —that something enduring
and valuable will come out of it. And
there seems to be evidence in Sweet
Confusion that the author is not, in fact,
seeking to write a popular novel, but a
good one, and that he is not, despite re-
markable resemblances, indebted directly
to Maugham, but to a general movement
of which Maugham was on the popular—
and successful —fringe.
Maugham makes Larry successful, in
a spiritual sense. Denny makes Mr. Pin-
sett, ultimately, a ridiculous crank and
fraud. But that was after he had lost
hope. At first he was human, vivid, and,
by the possession of comic and ridiculous
attributes —and three wives—much more
plausible than is Larry. Judy, too, is like
Maugham’s Sophie; both are conven-
tionally immoral, though Judy is more
convincing—and more restrained —than
is Sophie. And both are, in the final
analysis, more sinned against than sin-
ning. Maugham evades the difficulty of
converting Sophie by bringing accident
into the story, or at least external agency
in the matter of Sophie being tempted
to drink when at an unnatural and nerv-
ous pitch of reaction. Judy has a half-and-
half conversion, justified in part by her
yearning for emotional security. But, satis-
fied with a clandestine affair with Paul,
she is not entirely rid of her old self.
With Judy turned into a glamorous
dancer, or something equally fantastic,
and a little telescoping of characters,
Hollywood might make something of
Sweet Confusion. And if there is, in
fact, nothing in the movement deeper
than the popular appeal of Gemini,
Taurus and Virgo, that might be a good
thing, for Hollywood would assuredly
kill it.
Passionate Adjectives.
If troops of monkeys hammered away
at typewriters for an uncountable number
of years, then inevitably, someone has
said, the works of Shakspeare would be
produced. But it would take a long
time.
This pleasing simian fancy springs to
mind naturally on reading page 1 of
Margo Courtney’s Passions of the South
Seas (Lothian). There are only a certain
number of adjectives in the English
language, and if a writer is uninhibited
enough in their use, it seems likely that,
accidentally, some masterpiece of descrip-
tion, a flashing sentence, will eventually
evolve. And in a novel dealing with the
South Seas, it seems more than probable
that this will happen. It is rare to read
a novel, howevfer bad, without some merit,
a piece of observation or the germ of an
idea. And although there may be some-
thing of this negative virtue in Passions of
the South Seas, and although there is a
very riot of lush description, both of
emotions and scenery, nothing—miracu-
lously—comes out of it. The first two
paragraphs may be taken as typical:
Out of a sea of opalescent mist rose the
delicate outline of mountain peaks, which
slowly changed from palest rose to more
vivid hues as the brilliant sun rose higher
in the flaming heavens.
In less than 10 minutes both sea and
sky were painted in gorgeous colors of
flaming scarlet and scintillating gold. Then
suddenly, as the gossamer veils of the sun-
rise began to vanish before such glorious
splendor, an island lay revealed.
And in the island were: man-killing
savages; beautiful and seductive native
girls; an evil beachcomber; a sinister
witch-doctor; a beautiful English girl
who had emigrated to forget the horror
of her lover’s suicide, which rash act
he performed after she discovered his
infidelity and broke off her engagement.
And, coming towards the island, observing
all the flaming splendor but indifferent to
it, is Kenneth Moore —or Wentworth; his
name changes in a bewildering fashion —
who is handsome, rich, bitter and cynical,
and has pursued the girl to the ends of
the earth to avenge his brother’s death,
little knowing that she is pure and inno-
cent.
Other inhabitants include Don Jaime,
a wealthy merchant from Spain, who is
the father of the most bewitching of the
beautiful native girls, although he doesn’t
know it. And neither does her grand-
father, the old chief, who has waited all
these years to cut his head off. And Don
Jaime’s nephew, a proper and romantic
young man, who falls in love indiscrimi-
nately. Also speeding to the island —in
a yacht-—is Penny, Kenneth’s former
mistress. So, with much love-making and
sacrificial rites and black magic, the book
comes to a flaming and opalescent con-
clusion.
Under the Atebrin Moon: Stories by
members of the New Guinea Writers’
Club (Angus and Robertson). Light-
weight entertainment, for the most part,
and many of the stories are both deriva-
tive and dull. “The Eagle,”’ for instance,
by Perce Mooney, is an unreal picture
of Russian children being strafed by
German planes. “The Snake,” by George
Aitchison, adds nothing to D. H.
Lawrence’s observations of the reptile.
But James Sweeney’s stories, crude and
made-to-measure as they are, have a
genuine gusto ; a touch here and there—
as in the picture of a soldier, crying-
drunk, selling a souvenir to a credulous
comrade which promises something
better. J. Picton-Warlow, in his maga-
zinish story “The Dinkum Bloke,” has
some fine observation of a drunken
drover and his girl, but has spoilt the
sardonic flavor with his incompletely-
drawn gentlemanly suitor and a happy
ending. “The Silver Button,” by Ken-
neth Mullens, is another good story
spoilt. In this case a happy, flirtatious
barmaid, a rich wife and a lazy, weak,
sensual husband are wasted by a psycho-
logically false distortion of character to
fit the pattern of what may be called a
conventionally unhappy end. With, of
course, some assistance from the 100 %
arm of coincidence.


w


m
V
Iffl I
I
A
iS.
&
(bP
»
cS/U &Ac£ 2/ gvc ~~~ i*&t
Jf&** & ctc&c£ sKaafaarl*
Gem does away with afternoon stubble. One skin
level Gem shave keeps you clean all day and all
evening. Be kind to your face. Shave once and shave
clean with Gem. Buy a packet of Gem Blades to-day.
AVOID
5 O'CLOCK SHADOW/
SHAVE WITH
in mm#
w
m
p.
*sr
ff
it
V.
X
R
9
IN
X
o
- - ■
ccqmc
Epi\Ar<ue*-
=*s
&
.186.30
S 3
sal
'is
mo
mE
WOLFE'S
<zznromdbc
SCHNAPPS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy The Vanishing Horsemen, by A. E.
Yarra. —4015.
To correspond with collectors of swords,
arms and armor with a view to purchase, ex-
change and information.—4017.
To buy copy of nursery rhymes entitled Bush
Babs. —4016.
To buy any issues of “Art in Australia”
after No. 70, March, 1938. Fair price offered.
—4014.
Information Sought.
Is there any reliable opinion of the medicinal
value of onion and parsley?
This is vouched for by Dr. J. G. Richardson,
professor of hygiene in the University of
Pennsylvania (reprinted from “Australian
Home Gardener”): Onion. — Promotes
digestion; acts on liver by increasing secretion
of bile, cure for constipation; taken for
worms (animal and man), and for whooping
cough, intestinal and stomach trouble. Parsley.
—Hot infusion made from ounce of fresh root
and drunk freely increases secretion of urine in
cases of dropsy, and relieves women’s com-
plaints. Lotion is good as skin beautifier.
* * ♦ »
Is it a fact that Wagner in his struggling
days made a living by writing pianoforte
arrangements of famous operas? If so, are
any of these arrangements obtainable today?
Dannreuther, in his article in Grove’s
Dictionary of Music and Musicians, asserts that
Wagner did several partitions de piano for
Schlesinger in 1840, but later biographies say
that these arrangements were for the cornet-a-
piston, and that the only pianoforte arrange-
ment undertaken for Schlesinger was of
Donizetti’s “La Favorita.” Whether the work
was ever completed isn’t stated. If it was pub-
lished, it has long been out of print and
forgotten.
* * * *
How do flying fish fly? Do they do it by
flapping their fins?
There is strong scientific evidence that the
fins are never actually flapped, but serve merely
as gliding planes. The motive power comes
entirely from the tail, the elongated lower lobe
of which vibrates in the water while all the rest
of the fish is in the air. Sometimes the fish
will drop to the surface and gain momentum
for a second flight by merely reimmersing the
bottom of the tail. The normal flying speed
is never greater than 25 to 30 miles per hour.
This is too low to enable a fish of such weight
to glide in still air; accordingly, it appears that
disturbance of the air above the uneven surface
of the sea normally helps the fish to maintain
its glide.
* * * *
Some details concerning Kangaroo Island,
S. Aus.?
Situated at the foot of St. Vincent Gulf,
which it shelters to a large extent from the
Southern Ocean. Length approx. 90 miles,
average width approx. 25 miles. Very rocky
coastline broken by occasional hays. Population
about 1000, mainly occupied in agriculture.
Chief towns, Kingscote and Penneshaw (Hog
Bay). Products: Oats, wheat, bark, gum, fish
and eucalyptus oil. The island was discovered
and named by Flinders in 1802. After that it
was frequented by whalers and sealers, a few
of whom settled there. The first shiploads of
S. Aus. settlers landed there in July, 1836, but
transferred to Adelaide. Summer climate is
pleasant with a temperature several degrees
below that of Adelaide. The island is growing
in popularity as a tourist resort.
* * * *
Can human beings contract diseases through
handling dogs, and, if so, how can such risks
be minimised?
Diseases can be transmitted from dogs to
humans, and precaution should be taken against
possible infection. The animal must be regu-
larly washed and groomed; parasitic infection
is avoided in this way. Use a carbolised dog-
soap with warm water for the purpose; dust
freely with an insect powder after drying.
On no account should the dog sleep indoors,
especially animals of the larger breeds. Pro-
vide a kennel well removed from the house,
and where possible allow a grass run for
exercise. Apart from hydatids and the like
that are transmitted, there is danger of local
skin disorders, ringworm, etc. -Wash the hands
after handling toy types, and forbid the nursing
or fondling of dogs that are affected with
mange.
**. * *
Most of my white leghorns are suffering from
bumble foot. What causes this trouble and
what treatment is recommended ?
Bumble foot is caused by a puss-forming
organism gaining entrance to the foot through
an abrasion. White leghorns appear to be
more susceptible to the trouble than some of
our heavier breeds, and it is quite likely that
some strains or families of leghorns are more
susceptible than others. Treatment consists of
painting the foot with iodine daily for a week.
This causes a contraction or hardening of the
puss. The foot should then be lanced and
puss removed. Paint again with iodine and
tie up for a few days. As so many of your
birds are affected, there may be some con-
tributing cause such as thorns, etc. It is sug-
gested that you consult the Adviser in Poultry
Husbandry at the Department of Agriculture,
Cairns.
# * * *
Which of the fixed stars is nearest to the
earth, its distance from us, and when was its
parallax determined and by whom ?
The nearest of the fixed stars to us is a faint
star near the brighter of the two pointers to
the Southern Cross. This bright star is double
and is also close. This small group of stars
is distant about four light years from us and
the parallax has been determined by a number
of observers, including the observers at the
Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope.
* * ■ * *
(1) What is owed by Australia to Great
Britain today, Federal and State' debts com-
bined? (2) What is the annual interest bill?
(3) Are these loans repayable in gold or as
sterling ?
(1) £5tg487,006,512 as at December 31,
1946. (2) £5tg14,094,657 interest liability as
at 31/12/’46. (3) The above debt is repayable
in sterling.'
Brief Answers,
W.H.8.: Certainly not an aid to the soil,
but where the contents will drain away quickly
and the plot is limed to destroy offensive mat-
ter and sweeten the ground, the practice will
do little harm. Before being used for crops,
however, the land should be well dug over
and a heavy dressing of stable manure added.
J.R.M.G.: By planting the seed of either
the plum or lemon tree, you would not re-
produce the parent tree. It would be neces-
sary to have the resultant seedling budded
or grafted as the case may be. Budding is
recommended for citrus, while either budding
or grafting may be used for plums... .V.L.8.:
(1) £2 ss. per week. Unemployment benefit.
An additional ss. per week is payable if the
claimant has care, custody and control of at
least one child under the age of 16 years.
(2) Yes. A married man may receive up to
£1 per week income. Income in excess of £1
is deducted from the benefit otherwise pay-
able. .. .D.E.R.: Correct way of making darner
in a camp-fire was given in this column (B.
12/2/’47> H.F.8.: Upon the extension of
N.S.W. westward to the 129th meridian in
1825, the Northern Territory was incorporated
in that colony, but in 1863 was annexed by
Royal Letters Patent to the province of South
Australia. With the adjacent islands it was
transferred to the Commonwealth on January
1, 1911. ...A.D.: Aust. Academy of Dramatic
Art, 300 Pitt-street; Whitehall Academy of
Dramatic Art, Minerva Theatre, Darlinghurst;
Ella Massey Academy, 375 George-street; Du
Barry Theatrical Academy, Box 4618, G.P.0.;
Mina Shelley School of the Theatre, 27 Paling s
Bldgs., Ash-street; Grace Stafford, 16 Ash-
street, and Mercury Theatre School, 5 Phillip-
street—all Sydney... .C.McE.: The Playwrights
Advisory Board offers a prize of £IOO for -a
full-length play. Entries close September 30,
1947. Mulga Publications, Sydney, has offered
to publish the winning play. Details from the
P.A.8., Box 4220, G.P.0., Sydney—a stamped
and addressed envelope to be enclosed....
JJ.W. : Bulletin “Red Page” reviews of novels
by Eleanor Dark have appeared as follows;
Return to Coolami (April 22, 1936), Sun Across
the Sky (Sept. 22, 1937), Timeless Land (Jan.
7, 1942), The Little Company (Nov. 11, 1945)
and Waterway (March 5, 1947, and July 6,
1938). There was also a general article on
the authoress in the issue of Nov. 17, 1937*


Missing Friend.
TO WILLIAM KEITH KEEGAN (also known as
William Keith Kennedy) formerly of Hamilton in
the State of Victoria but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife VERONICA IRENE
KEEGAN of 1 Stanmore Road Enrnore Sydney in
the State of New South Wales Married Woman has
instituted proceedings against you for Divorce on
the grounds of desertion and adultery UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
Supreme Court Melbourne in the State of Victoria
within twenty-one days of the twenty-eighth day of
May 1947 the said suit will proceed in your
absence and a Decree for Dissolution of Marriage
may be granted If you intend/ to defend this suit
■you must file an answer in the said office within
thirty-one days from the twenty-eighth day of May
1947.— MICHAEL NIALL & CO., of 360 Collins
Street, Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
&
JACKSON*
O^IIIUVAV
t-v VttVto. .<t,i
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams- and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
<0
*0
Tested and found correct! Over long dis.
tances at high speed Clyde-built locomotives
draw Clyde-built carriages in perfect safety.
The train lighting, too. is a product of Clyde
heavy duty plates.
CLYD
V ( TV V
„oUJd have t?s«
OTHER fellow
drive!
i
BATTERIES
The efficiency of the Clyde product is also emphasised
in Clyde Batteries for cars, trucks, buses, radio and
home lighting. You can expect abundant power and
long life from these tested units —and you get itl
An advt. of The Clyde Engineering Co. Ltd.. Granville, N.S.WI
Merchandise-Sales Division:—
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM.”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activities.
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
m me job
A6A/N,..
**Z » * **' '
7 --'■■ ■•
OiL
SJ^btY.
WZuim
hm
a®
MW
%
m
I
a;
;3 vacuum
i^VjQUALITY PRODUCT
P^63
Your war-time driving troubles are
over! Plume—the better petrol—ls here
again. Plume will now enable you to
obtain from your engine ALL the per-
formance and power it was built to give.
Buy Plume-the better petrol.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
D.M.J.: Beware of talking to gumtrees
T.G : “Winter” was nipped in the bud
C.K.P.: Thanks; but we don’t reprint
C.G.: Come in and toot your trumpet:
ŵ
... .J.C.S.: The idea didn’t deserve the planned
and careful telling... .E.C.: A borderline im-
pression that might find a market elsewhere...,
M. 8.: A slight but smart little sketch that
should suit a woman’s paper.’.. .E.M.: The
ẁ
AUSTRALIA.
About three hundred years ago
Navigators sailed to and fro
Searching the mighty southern sea
To find a land supposed to be
A continent out on its own
Round about the temperate zone.
And many seamen and their ships
Were unsuccessful on their trips,
But later on some Englishmen
Sighted Australia’s east coast, then
They went ashore and claimed the land
For England’s right on every hand.
And settlers came out to this place,
And very soon they made a base
To go from to explore the ground
Grown up with wild bush all around,
And work was done in many ways
To found Australia in those days. ,
Australia since has been improved
By many people who have moved
Throughout the country with a will
To make production higher still.
And census figures show quite plain
Her population’s made great gain.
The scenery here’s a splendid sight
That’s truly relished with delight,
And there are beauty spots galore,
That people visit more and more.
And very often some are bent
On sporting to a great extent.
Australians have their own rule too,
But they are always very true
To England, and if they have eaune
Help friendly nations fight in wars.
For they desire to always be
Able to keep Australia free.
Then a crush broke fear-hung bars
And thousands rushed across the streets to thither
I know not
But found I had to follow, being pushed about a
lot—
As I was being pushed along, two knaves leaped out
and with a blow
Knocked an old woman down, robbed her and left
her lying low.
Then on a notice board I read a thing I knew not
well,
I made a grave mistake, this town was Sydney and
not Hell.


CONFIDENCE
BY STANDBY
(R.S.PORTEOVS)
WHEN I joined the Bidarie as mate
Dobson had a reputation that
would make most men envious ;
his name was a byword from
Sydney to Darwin. He was young and
full of confidence in his own superb judg-
ment. •
Of medium build, he walked with a
swagger and —except that he wore his
grey felt hat at a rakish angle, titled for-
ward and pulled down over one eye—
was always well dressed. His jaw was
long and hard and his lower lip jutted
forward aggressively.
A great chap, Dobbie, when he stepped
ashore —a free spender, a good mixer and
excellent company. But at sea he was a
different man. When he walked back up
the gangplank he left his air of hearty
good-fellowship ashore together with his
drinking habits, and became very much
the Master of his ship—a hard man,
tireless and overbearing. The streak of
vanity in his make-up kept him con-
stantly trying to outdo himself.
Working those tidal rivers is a tricky
business. Delays waiting for tides are
inevitable, but Dobson saw to it that the
Bidarie was never held up one minute
longer than was necessary. With the
propeller churning up sand he’d scrape
over a bar on the first of the flood tide
and come steaming full speed up-river to
the wharves.
“Carry the tide with you,” he’d boast.
“That’s the way to do it.”
Of course that was all right on a rising
tide; if the ship did stick she’d float off
in a matter of minutes. But once he
did it on a falling tide with the ship
loaded right down to her marks. We
were taking on a cargo of sugar at the
port of Mackay, and Dobson had an-
nounced his intention of sailing at high
water on the Wednesday night.
IZ7 VERYTHING went against us that
' night. At ten o’clock we hadn’t
finished loading, and, what was worse, the
tide played one of its tricks on us. It
turned early, and it turned a full six
inches short of its expected height.
The Harbormaster was aboard yarn-
ing to Dobson and both were studying
the wharf tide gauge when the flood
stream ceased.
The Harbormaster was saying: “Don’t
be a bloody fool, Dobson. You’ll never
do it. You’ll be two inches short of your
draft on the bar.” But Dobson was
ignoring everyone not directly connected
with the job of getting his ship away
from the wharf.
He must have told the chief engineer to
have a full head of steam on, because the
roar of the safety valve blowing off was
drowning every other noise. I remember
seeing the Harbormaster and the last
wharfie jump a full four feet to the
wharf as we gathered headway.
Downstream we surged, with the hands
still coiling down the mooring lines,
steam roaring from the safety valve and
Dobson himself at the wheel. Wharves,
houses and trees slipped by, the two red
lights of the lower reach leads came into
line astern and we swept past the lighted
tide gauge on East Point.
“She’ll never do it, sir,” I called, shov-
ing my head into the wheelhouse. “The
tide’s on the ebb.”
“Mind your own business, Mister!”
Dobson snapped. “She bloody well will
do it!”
In the light of the binnacle lamp I
could see his obstinate jaw thrust forward
and his knuckles showing white as he
gripped the spokes of the wheel.
Two dim green lights coming into
line astern—the bar leads! This was
the shallowest part of the whole channel.
I sensed the grating of sand under our
keel and felt myself leaning forward as
the ship dragged to a stop.
“She’s aground!” I called. “She’s
stuck.”
The bows lifted to the gentle swell
coming in over the bar, and Dobson
snapped:
“Like bloody hell she is! She’s mov-
ing. She’s over.”
And, by God, she was, too. Her stern
lifted, came down with a'light jar, lifted
again to the next swell and we slid for-
ward into deep water.
J WAS new to this coast when I joined
* the Bidarie. I’d served most of my
sea-time on the Sydney-Rabaul-Solomon
Island run and I don’t mind admitting
that those Torres Strait waters had me
worried for a while.
At low water, when the reefs uncover,
you can smell the dead, stale stink of
rotting coral all the way. Not a nice
sensation that —to be barging along at
full speed on a dark night with your
nostrils full of the smell of the hidden
danger that lies waiting for you to make
the slightest mistake.
Nowadays the course is well marked.
In clear weather you’re seldom out of
sight of a light or beacon, but at the time
I’m speaking of the navigational aids
were not so good.
Even now, if the weather comes on
thick, the only safe thing to do is to
drop your pick and wait for the visibility
to improve. You’ve no margin of safety,
you understand. Just a few hundred
yards off your course and you’re liable
to pile your ship up.
Quite often during my first few trips
up there I had occasion to send for Dob-
son because I was in doubt. I’m a
cautious man by nature and I never
believe in taking anything for granted.
Furthermore, I was only the mate. As
Master, Dobson would get the blame
for any mistakes, so I saw to it that he
made the decisions when I wasn’t sure
of myself.
Some Masters object to being dragged
out of bed on the slightest pretext at all
hours of the night. Dobson enjoyed it.
It pleased his colossal ego to think that
everyone depended on him-
The first time I sent for him he jcame
on to the bridge and asked:
“What is it, Mr. Mclntosh?”
“I’m not too sure of our position, sir,”
I answered. “The visibility is bad. There’s
something on our port hand that looks
like a low island, but I couldn’t be sure
of it. It should be Night Island.”
He walked to the wing of the bridge
and stared into the darkness for
about three seconds. “That is Night
Island, Mister,” he announced. “You
can’t mistake it.”
Dobson ran up the ladder to the stand-
ard compass, took some bearings and, in
a surprisingly short time, came back.
“Come into the chartroom,” he said.
He picked up the parallel rulers and
pencil and ran three heavy, bold, black
lines on the chart. At the intersection of
the three lines he stabbed the pencil
almost through the paper and ran a
heavy circle around the dot,
“There, Mister,” he said, thrusting his
jaw forward defiantly. “The ship is
there”
BY the time the wet season set in 1
knew that stretch of coast pretty
well, but I don’t mind telling you I was
dreading the wet. I knew Dobson well
enough to realise that it would take a
hell of a deluge to stop him. He had a
positive mania for being on time.
The rain-was late setting in that year,
and when it did come, instead of starting
with the usual blustering sou’easter and
blinding rain - squalls, it crept on us
quietly with a gradual clouding-over of
the sky and scarcely a breath of wind.
When I came on watch at eight o’clock
a fine drizzle of rain was failing.
The sea was glass-calm, a flat, lead-
colored sea under a leaden sky. The
visibility was not really bad, for I could
distinguish the heavy mass of Flinders
Island astern of us and see the steady
flashes of Wharton Reef Light, some six
miles ahead. Still, it had all the makings
of a dirty night.
The rain got steadily heavier until,
about eleven o’clock, I was having a job
to distinguish my landmarks.
I wonder how many people pas-
sengers dancing in brilliantly-lit saloons
or lying snug in their berths—realise the
feelings of the poor bloke up there on the
bridge on nights like that? There was-1,
with rain dripping down the back of
my neck, staring out into the wet dark-
ness, seeing those cursed little islands
only as faint black blurs in a world of
black.
The fine rain formed a sort of gigantic
halo around our masthead light, restrict-
ing and yet reflecting its rays, causing
them to light up our wet, gleaming decks,
the dripping rigging and the glistening
cowls of the ventilators on our fo’castle
head.
I cursed that light for restricting my
own vision, but I dared not switch it off.
We were right in the track of south-
bound shipping.
The display of phosphorus at our
bows, always bright in those waters,
was more than usually brilliant that night.
The bow waves curled over in a smother
of gleaming, sparkling light and swirled
aft along our plates, throwing dancing
lights far up the ship’s sides.
I cursed that, too, as I sent the stand-
by seaman to call the Old Man.
Until then, although I had been having
more than my share of worries, I had
been able to identify all my landmarks
and keep the ship right on the dotted
line. But now I was not so sure of my-
self.
We were close to the mainland on that
stretch, and on my port hand I could
just make out the vague, indefinite blur
of the rugged hills rising steeply up from
the foreshore, their peaks lost in the
dripping sky. At ten minutes to twelve
we were due to make a turn, but it would
have been madness to bring the ship
around without first definitely establish-
ing our position.
DOBSON came up at once, fully alert
as he always was.
“The visibility is getting worse, sir,” I
reported. “I sent for you because I
thought we’d better anchor and wait for
the rain to clear off a bit.”
He swung around and pointed towards
the faint coastline. “How far off that
land do you put us, Mr. Mclntosh?” he
asked.
“Approximately three miles.”
“Three miles!” he snapped. “And you
can see the infernal thing plainly! If
you call that bad visibility you’ve got
a lot to learn about the wet season on
this coast. If I took your advice I’d
never leave port for the next two
months.”
He took some bearings then and put
the ship on the chart, though how he
identified any of those vague peaks was
beyond me,
“You’re too close inshore,” he an-
nounced, coming out of the chartroom.
“Nearly three-tenths of a mile. What
course are you steering?”
I told him the course, and he said:
“Haul her out another three degrees.
You want to check your steering more
frequently, Mister. If you let the helms-
man go to sleep on his job on a night
like this, God knows where you’ll finish
up.”
I was about to defend myself but I
thought better of it. Instead I stepped
into the wheelhouse and gave the helms-
man the alteration of course.
“I’ll stay here till we make the turn,”
Dobson announced when I’d seen the
ship “steadied on.” I was glad to hear
it. I entered the time and the alteration
of course in the log book. Beneath the
entry I wrote “Vessel under Master’s
Orders.”
At ten minutes to twelve Dobson,
who’d gone up to the standard compass,
brought her round. He steadied her on
COUNTRY BOARDING-HOUSE
You’d da well to arrive here in daylight.
Spinster pines
Complain continuously, sigh their set
lines,
Knitting white socks of cloud or patching
sunlight.
But oh! how they reminisce and weep at
night
Drawn up around the moonshine, warm-
ing stiff bones,
As if the old spent house had coals for
stones.
“Do you remember the master ? Blood
in keen eyes
And age mere fancy dress, a thin disguise
To be thrown off at midnight. He’d
strike the board
And hang his wife and children on his
word.”
And the pines simper and gossip, sigh
and tell over
His tales of drought and flood as did
their lost lover.
The wind turns south, the pines shiver.
They mourn
For a thin tired lady who walked upon
the lawn
And held a flower cupped a moment. And
the slant light
Blossomed for her and the flowers
became more bright
And the sprinkled dust breathed out. She
turned away
From Time who paused to pass the time
of day.
“There was George,” the pines sigh;
“George, his mother’s darling,
Climbing for cones, for the blue eggs of
the starling,
Off on his pony, home by train from
school
With a flask in his bag and a baby for
that fool
Tow-headed housemaid. And —just think,
my dear! —
He married the hussy later, or so I hear.”
A.C.T.
“And who did John marry ?” “I believe
he married well.
Biscuits or steel. Yet he was forced to
sell
When his curt father, angered by prying
death,
Clouded his mirrored face with his last
breath.
And now John’s dead. He left a tolerant
wife
And fifty a year to his sister for her life.”
Pines weep, pines nod together, whisper
and sway,
Murmur “Tomorrow soon is yesterday.”
Each year the sister comes, bones in black
satin,
Pain and memory thinning while her bags
fatten
With relics, locks of hair. At lunch and
tea
She mourns like a dry sea-shell for its
lost sea.
And each year trippers bring in the
spring. The wattle
Remembers to be gay. Underground the
battle
Of roots for sap; above, laughter and
games,
Croquet, riding, tennis and Christian
names.
The old house yawns with doors and
blinks with blinds
And flappers bounce in the saddle on
bouncing behinds.
But at night the pines take over. How
they complain !
“Their manners, my dear!” New
thoughts in his old brain.
The house troubles the sleepers. Laughter
dies.
The magpie’s promises are young men’s
lies,
Yet put your mouth here, hold me while
the pines sigh,
For this is Time’s no-mqn’s land in
which we lie.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MYRA NEREDAH GOODFELLOW late of 13
Addison Road Marrickville. —TAKE NOTICE that
WALLACE GOODFELLOW has filed a Petition for
Restitution of Conjugal Rights No. 3959 of 1946
And if you want to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Sydney
by the Twenty-first day of July 1947 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
A. J. McLACHLAN, HOARE & CO., Solicitors, 6
Wynyard Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
HARTS
Circular Charts lot ail type* d
Recording Instrument* (or any clas*
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get our quotation
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE. o*lo.
ŵ
STATE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
HAS VACANCY FOR
Senior Assistant
PUBLICITY BRANCH
• Applications are invited from
experienced, versatile journal-
ists, preferably with daily
newspaper training, who also
have wide practical experience
in all aspects of institutional
publicity. Creative ability in
producing printed material will
be an advantage.
• Opportunity and security
open to suitable man. Com-
mencing salary, according to
qualifications and experience,
£650 to £750 per annum, plus
cost of living adjustment (at
present £52 per annum),
• Applications, with full state-
ment of experience and copies
of testimonials, should be for-
warded before May 24; 1947, to:
The Secretary,
STATE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
OF VICTORIA,
22 William Street, Melbourne
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE-
Without Calomel And You’ll Jump out
of Bed in the Morning Fall of Vim.
The liver should give out two pound*
of liquid bile daily or your food doesn’t
digest. You suffer from wind. You get con-
stipated, Your whole system is poisoned
and you feel irritable, tired and wears
and the world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills to get
those two pounds of bile working and
make you feel “up and up.” Harmless,
gentle, yet amazing in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver Pills
by name. Stubbornly refuse anything
else. 3/- & 1/3.
END your RUPTURE
WORRIES!
m
Try the new Roussel Ap-
pliance free. Enables you
to do hard work with com-
fort and security. Defin-
itely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for
improvement or recovery.
Recommended by Doctors.
Satisfaction guaranteed, no
matter where you live. Call or send stamp for
details, self-measurement form, and Ik days’ free
trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, SYDNEY,
Mi pay*
hold!
on
%
v
r\
'rT2.
'u
rk
=0
Don’t tot go of
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
AROUT TO MATURE
If you own War Savings Certificates
which are about to mature —don’t cash
then}, keep them working for you!
Savings Certificates are now being issued
in a new five-year series for face value,
in denominations of £l, £5, £lO and £5O.
In five years’ time they will be worth
£l/3/-, £5/15/-, £ll/10/- and £57/10/-
respectively.
These generous interest rates will also be
applied to War Savings Certificates
maturing this year —if you don’t cash
them! Every pound’s worth, for which
you paid 16/- seven years ago, will increase
in value each year, at better than bank
rates of interest, to £l/3/- in five years*
time.
HERE'S WHAT TO DO
1. War Savings Certificates lodged with
your bank for safekeeping:
Just leave them there —the increase in
value will automatically continue.
If you have instructed your bank to
redeem the Certificates on maturity,
cancel that instruction.
2. War Savings Certificates in your own
possession:
Hold on to them and they will auto-
matically increase in value—or, better still,
lodge them with your bank or savings
bank for a further five years. They will
be kept in safe custody completely free
of charge.
There is no better place for your sayings
than in Savings Certificates. So hold on
to all you own, and buy as many more as
possible of the new five-year series. They
are cashable at any time, and the annual
increases in value are free from taxation.
Regardless of holdings of War Savings
Certificates, everyone can own Savings
Certificates of £250 face value.
★ ★★★★★
Don't cash your maturing War Savings Certiiieates
They will continue to increase in value
at the same rate as the
NEW 5-YEAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
North six West and strode into the chart-
r°°Take a look at this, Mr. Macintosh,”
he i°stermed inside and stood beside him
while he ran off his bearings on the
chart—three bold black lines. Drops of
water trickled from his chin,
forming little pools on the
chart.
“There, Mister,” he barked,
stabbing the pencil into the
intersection of the lines with
such vigor that the lead
snapped off short. The ship
is there.” Ignoring the fact
that the broken pencil was
scoring the chart, he drew a
heavy circle around the dot and
wrote “11.30” opposite it.
“Now are you satisfied?” His
out-thrust jaw defied me to
contradict him, and his eyes
expressed his contempt for my
doubts and caution.
“Since you’re asking me,”
I answered. “I’m not. I don’t see how
any man can identify any of those
damned hills tonight.”
For a moment or two I thought he
would explode. His under-lip shot even
further forward and he glared at me
angrily. It was probably the first time
anyone had doubted the great Captain
Dobson. Suddenly he hurled the pencil
across the chart table and strode out.
“God help the owners who give you a
command,” he said over his shoulder.
“You’ll break ’em.”
The second mate came on to the bridge
just then and Dobson himself handed
over the watch. “The course is North
six West, Mr. Dawson,” he finished up.
“See that it’s steered. If you don’t pick
up Chapman Light by two-thirty give me
a call.”
I turned in feeling I’d made a fool
of myself. Dobson knew that coast
better than I would ever know it and I’d
had the hide to offer him advice about
anchoring.
f WAS sleeping soundly when she struck,
1 but I must have awakened' and jumped
out of bed in a split second, because I
remember the sensation clearly. It was
rather like being in a fast-moving tram
when the emergency brakes are applied
suddenly—the same hideous grinding and
shrieking of metal and the same feeling
of being dragged forward.' The only
difference was that as we slid to a stop
the ship listed heavily to port.
The engine - room telegraph clanged
furiously, the steady beat of the engines
died away and I found myself racing for
the bridge clad only in a thin pyjama
suit. It was still raining steadily, I
noticed, but as I climbed the bridge ladder
rain poured down in a sudden deluge.
It was as if the impact of the ship
striking the reef had shaken the heavens
and let loose a pent-up volume of water.
In the black darkness of the bridge I
collided head-on with someone —Dob-
son, I realised by his voice as he cursed
me,
“That you, Macintosh?” he bellowed,
evidently recognising my bulk. “The
bloody second mate’s piled her up!
Rouse all hands.. .Get me soundings all
round her.. .See what water she’s making
.. .Find out where we are.”
Rouse all hands! Find out where we
are! Obviously the Old Man was badly
rattled to voice such nonsense. As if
any man could have slept through that
racket! And as for finding out our
position—l couldn’t even see our fo’castle
head through the wall of black darkness
and blinding rain.
Dobson didn’t hear my “Aye, Aye,
sir”; he was cursing like a madman,
cursing the rain, the darkness, but most
of all the second mate, who was standing
just outside the chartroom door. I
grabbed the Second by the arm and said:
“Snap out of it, Bill. Come with me.”
Half way down the ladder we ran into
the Third, carrying him backwards in our
rush.
“Jesus, Mac,” he yelled, “She’s going
down by the stern!” ">
I noticed then, for the first time, that
as well as listing heavily to port our
decks were sloping steeply aft.
“She can’t be,” I said. “She struck
for’ard. Take a couple of hands with you
and sound all round her. Start up for’ard
—she’s probably right up on the reef —
Bill, see what water she’s making.”
I ran for’ard to see the first soundings
for myself. If we weren’t firmly aground
we should be getting the boats away in-
stead of fooling around with lead lines
and soundings. What the hell did it
matter where we were if the ship was
sinking?
It didn’t take long to find that there
was no danger of her going down. The
soundings showed her to be resting on
coral for two-thirds of her length.
Up on the bridge the Old Man was
cursing and bawling for information while
we were groping around in the darkness
and pouring rain, trying to read the
o Continued on page 32.)


“/ £££L LIKE A NEW SHOE
•MARVELLOUS WHAT A SHINE-UP \
AND MASSAGE WITH NUGGET
mi do r
O
M&aS* ({3
itT
DP
fH*
or
SJMB
OB*
wwB
\>-L
MUGGET
SHOE POUSH
NP46/55
mm
m
.
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
Built to Recognised
Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are
rigidly observed in the building of all “MARS”
Lathes. In addition, all necessary revolving
parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the smooth
vibrationless running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “MARS” Lathes is cut
from a certified and tested Master Lead Screw.
ẁ
ẃ
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty.,
Ltd. VICTORIA —Servian Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick,
Melbourne. Q’LAND —Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TASMANIA—
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd.,
Auckland. CALCUTTA —Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road.
BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd., Fort Bombay.
HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI —The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LIC
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CALL FOR A SHOWDOWN.
Coinciding with the announcement of
the “Truman doctrine” —immediate sup-
port for Soviet-threatened Greece and
Turkey and promised support for others
whose freedom might be similarly men-
aced —former U.S. Vice-President Henry
Wallace set off on his soapbox crusade of
Europe; his utterances calculated to en-
sure Russia a free hand for its expansion
aims, and on that issue estrange Britain
from the United States, an objective pre-
dicating the notion that J. Bull must be
in his dotage.
Actually, it showed that Mr. Wallace
had adopted, among other things, the
Soviet clumsiness. The most he did was
to get Congressmen’s and his other
countrymen’s backs up. The “Truman
doctrine,” first endorsed overwhelmingly
by the Senate, finally received the House
O.K. on May 9 by a vote of 287 to 107.
Cheers greeted a Republican member’s
“If Russia thinks this is a declaration
of war, let her make the most of it.”
Reported extensively in papers like
London “Times,” what Mr. Wallace said
in Britain led to talk in the U.S.
of having him prosecuted for sedition or
treason or some such grievous offence;
which goes to show that there are others
in Uncle Sam’s thrice-blessed land quite as
humorless as even Mr. Wallace.
More suitably, the Wallace talks should
be preserved and set at Harvard, Yale
and other such august addresses as logic
papers. For instance, Mr. Wallace in a
8.8. C. talk: “Does not war arise more
from want and economic maladjustment
than from any other cause?” That
could be saying that Hitler for about 10
years prepared Germany for war and then
launched the war —from want. Hitler
attacked Mr. Wallace’s monstrous god-
child Russia —from want. Japan like-
wise attacked Mr. Wallace’s native land —
from want. So the war criminals were
not those who were hanged, but those
who hanged them. And all history is
false, from the Crusades to the Boer War,
from the American Civil War to the
Spanish Civil War, from America’s War
of Independence to Kaiser Bill’s War ;
and only Mr. Wallace is right. Tojo
should try “want” as a defence plea,
Russia Expansionist
Another f.a.q. Wallace sample:
I do not deny that Soviet Russia is expan-
sionist, as Britain was expansionist and as
America is expansionist in the Pacific and else-
where today. But it is the task of countries
which have the atom bomb and have not,
like Russia, been devastated by war and boy-
cotted in peace, to try a new type of power
politics.
The Wallace idea of “a new type of
power politics” is that America
should continue as wholesale giver
to every voice that asks. The fallacy in
this is that Uncle Sam has already tried
it, through U.N.R.R.A., and if it can
be shown that this made such askers as
Yugoslavia and Russia any more friendly
towards him the tall gentleman with the
goatee beard would be very happy to
hear of it —better still, be given a single
sign o'f it. Meanwhile, if Soviet Russia
just went on expanding, took control of
Greece and outflanked and subjugated
Turkey, what next? Does Uncle Sam
then start dropping that atom bomb? Or
is aggression all right if it has a hammer-
and-sickle on it?
In another of his utterances Mr.
Wallace spoke of his country’s assistance
to Turkey as going “to maintain a
Turkish army of close on 1,000,000 men
on Russia’s borders.” Apart from recall-
ing the time when mighty Finland threat-
ened little Russia and so had to be
crushed by a force of 40 Russians to
one Finn, the uncontestable fact of Tur-
key’s situation is that it has for years
been subject to such a war of nerves by
Russia that, the Turks being anything
but cravens, the Turkish Government has
been spending 60 per cent, of the revenue
on defence —to keep the Russian
aggressor out.
One more Wallace sample:
Were a band of ragged volunteers in the
Greek mountains such a terrible threat to the
world that the President had to address the
Congress as though another Pearl Harbor had
struck America? Of course not. Domination
of Russia’s borders and control of Middle
East oil were more serious issues.
Probably it is that statement more than
anything else Mf. Wallace has said that
has stuck in the American gullet. Yet
by this time they ought to know that it
is mere elementary method of all Com-
munists and those who help them to
accuse the other side of exactly the same
tactics they are themselves employing.
On this particular Wallace charge a N.Y.
“Joumal-American” correspondent has
commented:
To the [Communist, etc.] shouts of dismay
in America and England that the President of
the United States has made a “political
declaration of war against Soviet Russia,” it
can be retorted that Communist Soviet Russia
— St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Star-Times.”
THE NEW ATLAS.
in effect and purpose, but without the virtue
of candor and openness, proclaimed a
“political and ideological war” on Western
Democracy and all it stands for, even before
the war had come to an end.
Senator Vandenberg has spoken of the
“Truman doctrine” as being opposed
“(1) by those who hope it won’t work but
are afraid it will, and (2) those who hope
it will work but are afraid it won’t.”
A Gallup poll has shown “The Ad-
ministration’s proposal for a showdown
with Russia over the issue of Greece and
Turkey is approved by a two-to-one vote
of the U.S. public.”
A Provoked Policy
If the sharp turn in Uncle Sam’s policy
is unpalatable to the Kremlin they can
hardly say there that they did not ask for
it, though it could be that they did not
expect it. Quite possibly, various U.S.
comments have suggested, they were mis-
led by the very exuberance of Uncle
Sam’s war-time generosity.
Thus N.Y. “Times,” noting that “the
high-handed and obstructionist attitude
assumed by Russia in her international
dealings has produced a violent swing in
American public opinion, perhaps unpre-,
ceffented for so short a time,” has com-
mented ;
During the war, supported by our natural
admiration for the valor of the Russian armies,
but also by a profound and often purposely
purveyed misunderstanding of our ally, the
prevailing mood was an extreme pro-Russianism
which overwhelmed the Russians with* un-
reqmted friendship, gifts and appeasement that
lea to an equally profound Russian misunder-
standing of our national character.
N.Y. “Times” reported the U.S. mood
as now developing toward an equally
extreme anti-Russianism which is leading
to increasing demands for a ‘showdown’
even at the risk of a complete break”:
The most publicised manifestations of this
new mood have come from the halls of Con-
gress. Senator Byrd, for example, has called
for a showdown within the United Nations on
the Greek and Turkish problem, even if this
should lead to Russia’s “retirement” from the
U.N. and the reorganisation of that institution
into what would be in effect an anti-Russian
bloc.
By an odd twist of circumstances, the
American anti-Russianism noted by N.Y.
“Times,” and certainly “not overlooked
by Mr. Truman in announcing his world-
wide policy, has been brought about
much more through the agency of
U.N.O. —the persistent negative tactics
employed by Soviet delegates on every
single important issue brought before that
body—than by all the signs of Russian
aggression in Europe, from the Baltic
States right round to Turkey. Americans
had put high hopes in U.N.O. In that
idealism or sentimentalism or whatever
it may be called that is one of the most
distinctive of their national characteristics
they were prepared to go to great lengths
to make that organisation an effective
means of keeping the world at peace.
They have, instead, seen its effectiveness
steadily whittled away by Soviet obstruc-
tiveness.
The Wrecking of U.N.O.
Commenting on the U.S. world policy
that has, been endorsed and the quite ex-
pected objections to it by Soviet U.N.O.
delegate Gromyko, the N.Y. “Post” spoke
of that delegate’s previous “exposition of
the Soviet position on disarmament and
atomic control” as forming “a useful
background for his protest against Presi-
dent Truman’s proposal”;
Mr. Gromyko said the Soviet wouldn’t agree
to international control and inspection of atomic
development or the establishment of a U.N.
military force unless the atomic bomb were
destroyed and disarmahient arranged first.
Taken together, Mr. Gromyko’s two utter-
ances are understandable —from a Soviet point
of view. Both advocate courses most likely
to give encouragement to the spread of Com-
munist control and extension of Soviet influence.
They have to do with the exercise of power.
The Soviet Union, by abstaining from par-
ticipation in the World Bank and by blocking
creation of establishment of a United Nations
military force, among other things, did much
to make it impossible for the United Nations
to act effectively now in situations such as
centre about Greece and Turkey. The Soviet
would like to stop anybody from giving help.
That would give Communists, within and with-
out, more time to exploit starvation and chaos.
In the same way, destruction of the atomic
bombs, which the United States alone possesses,
and immediate disarmament without control and
inspection of atomic energy development, would
boost Soviet power.
Once the United States destroyed the bombs
and their means of production, any other
Government could take what course seemed
appropriate. Disarmament under those circum-
stances could only mean a further reduction
in power of the armed forces of the United
States and the other nations not under Soviet
domination in comparison with Soviet armed
forces, for there is no evidence that the Soviet
armed forces are below a war footing.
Hence the N.Y. “Post’s” support of
the Truman proposal: “The best chance
of bringing the Soviet Union into active
and straightforward participation in U.N.
is to discharge our own [U.S.] responsi-
bilities in the world until the time comes
when U.N.O. can take over some of them.”
Washington “Post” has editorially'
commented on “the blunders made in
post-war diplomacy in an effort to keep
the Russian Bear appeased”;
Some of those blunders have been inexcus-
able on moral grounds. It was a throwback
to medieval barbarism, to take just one example,
to consent to shifts of population all over
Europe Whole peoples are being hounded
from one country to another as an item in
what is ironically called a general pacification.
It is painfully apparent nowadays that this
kind of peacemaking creates only terror and
turmoil among the “pacified.”
What is worse is that in appeasing Russia
we have only whetted her appetite. The in-
cidents she has manufactured or justified by
way of asking for more have left the Security
Council as well as the affected nations helpless.
The Security Council was reduced to paralysis
in face of even such a monstrous crime as the
mining of British ships in Corfu Straits by
Russia’s puppet, Albania. Mr. Gromyko with
his use of Russia’s veto power ended all pos-
sibility of U.N. action. And before the curtain
went down the members were compelled to
listen gravely to the Albanian delegate insisting
that the British had blown up their own ships
and men.
Also on the Soviet aims as negatively
exposed through the agency of U.N.O.
(serving a useful purpose in this respect,
at least), the N.Y. “Post” foreign affairs
writer Edgar Ansel Mowrer, who has
resided well on the Left, has commented
with a frankness not outdone in any
quarter;
During the last three years the Soviets have
painted a self-portrait of themselves complete
in all details.
Soviet “wishes” are about as mysterious as
those of a famished crocodile —to acquire all
the power, populations and real estate it can
while preventing other countries from coming
together to oppose the realisation of such mighty
appetites.
Strife, disorder and despair in China; per-
manent agitation through the Middle East and
the former colonial world; a firm hold on
subjugated Eastern Europe; a frantic effort to
keep Western Europe atomised, divided and
powerless; a bid for the future support of a
resurrected Communist or near-Communist
Germany; expansion into the Persian Gulf,
the Mediterranean and the Red Sea; part of
Turkey; bases on Norwegian Spitsbergen; the
sowing of discord and division between Britain
and the U.S.; and, if possible, persuading the
U.S. to outlaw the atom bomb, tell how to
make it and destroy existing stocks with no
guarantees that the Soviets will not themselves
one day start manufacturing—these are a few
of the more concrete Soviet “aims” which some
Americans still like to call “mysterious.” Can
we wonder that Under Secretary Acheson called
Soviet policy “aggressive and expansionist”?
Actually, the means are about as subtle as
the movements of a hippopotamus direct
brutal grab, flanked by clumsy efforts to muddy
the international waters, backed by a constant
barrage of insult and invective directed against
everybody who opposes or even describes what
Moscow is up to.
Citizens of Occidental societies, never having
seen a creature with the appetite of a croco-
dile, the movements of a hippo and the manners
of an Arctic bear, cannot believe that such an
animal exists.
For this reason, no American so far has had
much success in handling the Muscovites until
he has had considerable personal experience
with the Kremlin.
The Showdown
The upshot of those clumsy movements
of the Bear is that America and Russia,
as “World Report” puts it, “are now at
a new and historic stage in their relations.
It is a stage of mutual distrust, openly
arrived at and publicly proclaimed”:
The United States is calling for a showdown
on what it considers Russian expansion and
aggression. ' American words in support of
democracy and against totalitarianism are to
be backed up with U.S. dollars, arms and, if
necessary, soldiers.
Adding that what Mr. Truman had
said was, in effect, “that speeches and dip-
lomatic protests no longer are enough to


/BLEMISHES
*** & Spots, roughness
_J J and soreness mar
the beauty of
\V_/ skin and com-
/ plexlonl UseCuticura
' ' Soap regularly Its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio— Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
Safeguard the future
of your
family
bv ensuring that on your death the management of
your estate will be left in responsible and capable hands.
Even though your Will may have been drawn by your
solicitor to your entire satisfaction, that in itself is not
enough to guarantee that your estate will be administered
in accordance with your wishes.
Of equal importance is to appoint a Trustee
trustworthy and capable of carrying out the o C0 w op
duties of estate administration. Unless he toese
qualifications, it would be dangerous to leave affairs in
his hands.
In certain cases it may be desired to appoint nH° n'Snnld
with the Company and combine the personal
knowledge of your son or a friend with the experience
and guaranteed permanence of the Company.
PERMANENCE
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond,
Chairman
Sir T. Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
p. W. Hixson
F. H. Way
Dr. G. M. Barron
Manager;
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Mgr.:
C. N. P. Whittle
Write for Booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W.
ADDRESS: 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
HD.
PT-3.6
YOUR TOBACCO
MAIL SERVICE
Rich full flavoured fine cut tobaccos fully
matured and manufactured with the
world’s best imported flavours. Mild and
satisfying. Delightfully cool for cigarettes.
Send early for your requirements —only
limited amount available monthly.
WINSTON BLEND FINE CUT TOBACCOS
FOR CIGARETTES 24/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
B.S.A. RICH PIPE MIXTURE 20/- per lb.
Postage free anywhere in Australia.
Mail Order Tobacconists . . .
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING CO..
11 Commercial Road,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
nrotect democracy against aggression....
Son is called for by the U.S., no matter
how far from Washington the need
“icpc» the publication expresses the con-
viction that “if in the past there has been
uncertainty about U.S. policy overseas,
there is to be none now.’ It sees the
Greek case as merely bringing “U S dis-
trust out into the open, as a prelude to
action” * ’— *
The combined effect of the post-war develop-
ments has been to establish more and more
dearly a situation in which a Soviet world and
anon- Soviet world exist side by side each in
aC The Soviet^world 0 and potentially
the most nearly self-sufficient part of the globe
ever united under one central and all-powerful
authority. It has the world’s largest army On
the other hand, it is relatively undeveloped and
has suffered vast war damage; its early recovery
is dependent on substantial help from the rest
of the world. The Soviet world is firmly under
the control of Communist Russia, whose policies
the democratic States find aggressive, un-
co-operative and in many respects unfathomable.
The non-Soviet world, on the other hand,
is in no sense a well-defined and effective unit
of power and policy. Actually, the “world”
that opposes the spread of the Soviet system
consists of a diverse and widespread group of
States. While united in varying degrees in their
concern as to Soviet policy, these States have
divergent and conflicting interests unknown in
the Soviet group. . ... ,
As the war ended, political, military and
economic reasons combined to make the U.S.
and Great Britain co-leaders of the non-Soviet
world. But a progressive change has taken
place in this relationship, due to the steady
decline of Britain’s ability to support the role
of co-leader. As a result, the U.S. now finds
itself in the position of outstanding leadership
against the spread of the Soviet system. The
support for Greece and Turkey involves a
critical decision as to the future policy of the
U.S. in exercising this primacy of leadership.
The choice this gave the U.S. was be-
tween doing nothing, relapsing into the
old traditional isolationism, and hence
inevitably looking on while Russia moved
in wherever Britain moved out, or else
taking the now endorsed positive stand
against further Soviet expansion—a
stand supported in a very forthright
speech by the Republican leader, Senator
Vandenberg. Declaring that the U.S.
was ready to sign any pact with Russia
guaranteeing that country against any new
anti-Soviet “axis,” but also insisting that
at the same time Russia must give assur-
ances “that she is not plotting to encircle
us in a Communist-dominated world,” the
Senator said regarding the immediate
scene of U.S. action:
If the Middle East falls within the orbit of
aggressive Communist expansion, the reper-
cussions will echo from the Dardanelles to the
China Sea and westward to the rims of the
Atlantic. Indeed, the Middle East, in this fore-
shortened world, is not far enough for safety
from our own New York or Detroit or Chicago
or San Francisco. We plot no offence against
the Soviet Union. We* are not hinting at worlJ
dominion. We are not seeking dominion any-
where. But what we deny to ourselves as a
matter of morality we must also deny to others
as a matter of conquest.
Weakened Soviet
As recorded by “World Report,” the
controlling reason for discarding the “do
nothing” course which some of the Presi-
dent’s advisers advocated was “the bitter
lesson learned as a result of that policy
in the period after World War 1”:
Many authorities agree that a strong and
forward-looking policy on the part of Great
Britain and the U.S., backed by a few billion
dollars, during the early 1930’s might have pre-
vented World War 11.
The present situation would appear to be
quite the same in. principle. Then the basic
Ganger was expanding German totalitarianism.
Now, President Truman characterises the basic
danger as “aggressive movements that seek to
impose totalitarian regimes on free peoples.
The great catastrophe came in 1939 because
the nations that then had the power to prevent
German expansion lacked the foresight and the
courage to act —and did nothing.
To call for a showdown amounts
to calling a; bluff, and that in turn implies
a belief that the other side is covering
weakness by exaggerating strength. On
this the same publication states;
Successive estimates have shown a progres-
sive decline in Soviet power since the end or
the war. At that time, owing primarily to her
colossal war efforts, Russia generally was
credited with a position of power not much
below that of the U.S. It would seem that,
if Russia, by full co-operation with the Western
nations, had obtained their assistance and sup-
port in her vital post-war problems of recon-
struction and development, this high position
might now be well on the road to attainment.
Russia, however, has not co-operated with
the other great Powers since the war, and as
a result has met a series of setbacks abroad
and extensive frustration of her efforts at home.
Russia has successfully established control
over adjacent satellite States. But when her
efforts have reached out beyond them, she
has failed consistently. This has been true
in North Africa, Trieste, Iran, Turkey, Spits-
bergen and now in Greece. Her policy m
Germany and Austria has been of doubtful
success from the Soviet point of view.
Russia’s action in refusing to agree on in-
ternational control of atomic energy has caused
the United States to maintain exclusive control
of the atomic bomb. That presented a mani-
festation of Russian policy which, to outsiders,
strongly suggests fear of exposing the workings
of the Soviet system to the inspection of the
rest of the world. It is now the opinion of
those who know Russia best that the Soviets
neither desire nor are capable of undertaking
war for any interest or reason outside the
present limits of the Soviet world.
This being the case, it would seem that the
U.S. policy exemplified by support of Greece
and Turkey, but frankly intended to confine
the Soviet system to its present limits, is being
counted on by the American Government to
accomplish its purpose. Furthermore, it is
hoped that this policy will involve the least cost
to the U.S., the minimum risk of war, and
the best prospects for world-wide security and
progress.
Other nations hope that, when Russia finds
out that she cannot successfully oppose the
rest of the world, she may decide to join it.
The true measure of Russian strength
or weakness will lie in how the Soviet
now reacts. The present betting is that,
— N.Y. “Sun.”
IN THE SHADOW.
while stirring up what trouble its fifth-
column can manage in situations of
chaotic desperation, such as that in Italy,
the Bear will do his clumsy best to
simulate a back somersault, growling
“American Imperialism,” “Western Fas-
cism” and like endearments.
DENAZIFICATION FLOP.
Except on an assumption of incredible
ignorance of human nature and of such
people as the German's in particular, it is
hard to believe that even those who set
out on the denazification job in Germany
really thought it could be done. It
looked one with the ambition to “re-
educate
The “Atlantic Monthly” now reports
what most must have expected: “That
the denazification programme is a failure
....is now indisputable. It has broken
down partly because of the sheer inability
of the occupying forces to handle it, but
chiefly because the majority of the Ger-
man people themselves refuse to support
it-”
As an example, “the reception given to
some 1500 prisoners-of-war returning
from England. These young Germans
had been carefully ‘screened.’ They were
considered promising champions of the
democratic idea by British authorities,
and had been given long training and in-
doctrination. Upon their arrival at a
dispersal camp in Bavaria they were
warned by German camp guards that
their records were known, and that they
would receive short shrift if they
attempted to discuss democratic ideas in
Bavaria. As a foretaste of what they
might expect, many were badly beaten
up by other Germans.”
The “Atlantic Monthly” further re-
ported (in March) “some 3,000,000 cases
of alleged Nazism still in the American
zone,” with charges filed against 220,000
of them. “In innumerable instances the
Judges and prosecutors of the German
Courts themselves have Nazi records,”
and “daily bombardments of threatening
letters from the Nazi underground
moderate the zeal of the Court officials.”
There is a simple sort of comparison
that people who set out to accomplish
such ambitions never seem to think of.
This: Supposing the Japs had won and
come here and tried to convert Aus-
tralians on their lines, what then?
It can be applied to any country.
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Dynamite Diary. Beside the 900-volumes
Morgenthau diary already noted here the one
that was kept by U.S. Gen. George Pad? 11
“Old Blood and Guts,” as they called him—>
was most modest; only a little thing or nine
vols. Still, it might outdo the Morgenthau
opus in fiery style, if nothing else. According
to N.Y. “Daily News” columnist John U Don-
nell, the Patton diary is “loaded with dynamite
so explosive that only an expurgated edition
can be printed until many of Patton s big-brass
colleagues in Allied ranks have passed to their
reward —or punishment.” Just as a sample,
Patton in the closing volumes of the diary
angrily insists that American troops should not
only have marched into Berlin ahead of the
Russians (they were halted on orders from
Washington), but “should, have marched ngn
ahead into Moscow.”
* * * * .
Monroe-Truman Difference.— The great dif-
ference between the “Monroe doctrine” and the
“Truman doctrine” is simply that the one
applied to a hemisphere and the other applies
to the world. Said Mr. Truman: “Totalitarian
regimes imposed on free peoples, by direct or
indirect aggression, undermine the foundations
of international peace and hence the security
of the United States....! believe that it must
be the policy of the United States to support
free peoples who are resisting attempted sutf
jugation by armed minorities or by outside
pressure ” The Monroe declaration stated.
‘‘ln the'wars of the-European Powers relating
to themselves we have never taken any part,
nor does it comport with our policy to do so.
It is only when our rights are invaded o
seriously menaced that we resent injuries
make preparations for our defence.. ..O
policy in regard to Europe is not to inter
fere in the internal concerns of any of its
Powers, to consider the Government de facto
as the legitimate Government for us.
* * * *
How the Bear Has Slipped.—A very striking
point on how far the Soviet Bear has shpped
in U.S. esteem has been made in the N.i.
“Post’s” “Washington Memo” column: At
this writing not a single voice has been raised
in defence of the Soviet role in Greece and
Turkey. Men like Pepper of Florida and Taylor
of Idaho, who have braved the wrath of their
colleague;, in earlier disputes, phrase their
dissents cautiously now. ‘Has anyone asked
Russia if she won’t come, along and co-operate
through the United Nations?’ Pepper asks a
little wistfully. There is no suggestion from
any side that Mr. Trumans indictment of
Russian totalitarianism is unjustified and un-
warranted. Certainly this reticence is a measure
of the degree to which the Soviets have lost
American goodwill in the unhappy months since
total victory.” It is also a measure of the
utter wretchedness of the Soviet case. Even
the globetrotting Wallace, while berating the
Truman policy, has not said a word in defence
o£ that ' * * *
* * * *
Troops in Europe— Commenting on Britain’s
notification to the U.S. of intention to get out
of Greece, a “Christian Science Monitor Lon-
don correspondent said: “The British Govern-
ment believes the time now has come for tire
U.S. to begin assuming its proper share....K
believes that British Tommies fighting guerrilla
wars and manning large bases in many hot spots
across the world have been carrying a wholly
disproportionate share of the security job. A
chart published by N.Y, “Times” showing the
troops the various main Powers have outside
their own borders gives the Russian total as
1,071,000; Britain, U.S. and France together,
709,000, of which Britain is contributing 419,000
to Uncle Sam’s 188,000. In Germany there
are 400,000 Russian troops, 350,000 British,
150,000 U.S., 90,000 French; in Austria, 60,000
Russian, 28,000 British, 10,000 U.S., 12,000
French; in Italy, 35,000 British, 28,000 U.S.,
in Greece, 6000 British; in Poland, 250,000
Russian; in Czechoslovakia, 5000 Russian; in
Hungary, 10,000 Russian; in Rumania, 250,000
Russian; in Yugoslavia, 8000 Russian; in Bul-
garia, 85,000 Russian; in Albania, 3000 Russian.
* * * *
U.S. and Philippines. —Nobody with any sense
in Australia ,is other than highly pleased with
Uncle Sam’s determination to remain in control
in the Pacific. Even so, it’s not hard to imagine
what American comment would be if it had
been J. Bull and not Uncle Sam who arranged
the agreement giving the Philippines “independ-
ence.” Under what is called a “mutual assist-
ance pact”—it runs for 99 years—Uncle Sam
is to hold 23 Philippines bases, which can be
used “in the interests of international security ;
a completely open order. Also, no third Power
can use the bases without the approval of both
the Philippines and the U.S.; Filipinos can
enlist in the U.S. Navy and Army; and Uncle
Sam is to have a military mission on the spot
“developing the defence forces of the islands.
As well, Uncle Sam will control the Philippines
economically through the “mutual trade
arrangements. No doubt it’s all as it should
be; but if this were J. Bull - and, say, India, the
yells from American “liberals” would be terrific.
» * * *
Effective Iron ■Curtain. One reason why
Uncle Sam will never share atom-bomb secrets
or anything else of the kind with Russia with-
out an absolutely foolproof inspection system
is that in blocking outside observation of what
goes on in Sovietland the iron curtain really
works. How extremely effective it is has been
shown by accidentally given knowledge of a new
railway across Siberia connecting European
Russia with the Pacific. Although building the
railway has been employing “at least 2,000,000
German and Japanese war prisoners” and the
construction has been under way for 10 years,
it was not until this year that anything definite
was known of it. “And yet,” the “Saturday
Evening Post” commented when news of the
railway at last leaked out, “there are people
in America who dismiss as ‘Russia haters
anybody who is honestly perplexed by the dif-
ficulties of setting up a system of international
inspection of countries engaged in developing
atomic energy.” It would certainly call for a
remarkable inspection system to be safely sure
of a country where such a gigantic enterprise
as that railway, “and the forced employment
of millions of slaves,” could remain for so
long shrouded in secrecy.
■s * * •
U.S. Pays for a Privilege. —In N.Y. “Journal-
American” columnist George Rothwell Brown
notes a slight difference “in the role of inter-
national policeman as played by Uncle Sam
and as played for so many centuries by John
Bull.” As seen by Brown —he would be speak-
ing for practically all U.S. —“whereas Britain
charged heavily for the service she rendered,
her profits being reflected in British investments
in every part of the earth, the United States
is in effect being asked to take over the task
and to do it for nothing. Indeed, to pay for
the privilege of doing it ."


/am*
■■ • \ • ■ ■■
me*
■
r
\
mm
m
m
i
fUKES A BOtyj
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery,
so please pardon the smug expression!
The surest guide to TAA’S leadership in air trans-
port is the way in which others have followed along
the paths TAA has established. The Honour List
below tells its own story. Imitation, however, is
never as good as the original - you will find TAA
still far ahead in service, courtesy and all the
little extras that make air travel a truly delightful
experience.
TAA FARES ARE STILE
THE
LOWEST FARES ... the rate of
approximately 3d. per mile, the lowest
consistent with economical operation.
was established by TAA in September,
1946.
"ONE FARE FOR ALL" has always been
TAA's policy. TAA abolished special
concessions, preferences and off-loading.
NO TICKET SIGNING is a TAA "exclu-
sive" and TAA accepts "common carrier"
liability for you, your baggage and your
freight.
"NO DEPOSIT" AIR TRAVEL—FREIGHT
CREDIT CARDS, an original TAA feature,
provide immediate credit at ail TAA
booking offices or agents for regular
users of air travel or consignors of air
freight.
FREE FREIGHT DELIVERIES WITHIN
DEFINED CITY AREAS . . . TAA has
delivered freight at ail ports of call
FREE within defined city areas since
October, 1946.
FACILITIES FOR KIDDIES, another
TAA "First", are carried on all TAA
airliners. Toys, picture books, cots
everything to help you keep the
children happy whilst travelling.
RACE SPECIALS to meetings interstate
and return on the same day, fi.st
introduced by TAA, have proved a
boon to the sporting public.
HOT BREAKFASTS in addition to
delicious meals served in the air are
a popular feature introduced by TAA.
O And SOON . . .
the new CONVAIR — 24O!
Brisbane-Sydney •••£616
Sydney-Canberra • • . £1 18 3
Sydney-Melbourne • • £5 10 6
Hobart-Melbourne , . £5 6 3
Launceston-Melbourne . £3 16 6
Canberra-Melbourne • . £4 17 9
Canberra-Mildura • • £5 10 0
Adelaide-Mildura . • * £2 17 6
Melbourne-Adelaide • . £4 17 9
Perth-Adelaide . . . £l4 13 3
Adelaide-Sydney (via
Mildura) . • • • • £9 15 6
-• v /' ■
YOUR SERVICE AUSTRALIA'S FINEST
184*
AI/4
1
ißfi
SYDNEY, 119 Phillip St., near Martin Place, Tel. B 0526
MELBOURNE, 339 Swanston St., Opp. Public Library, Tel.
MY 310 . . . BRISBANE, Cr. Adelaide tr Creek Sts., Tel.
B 1341 ... ADELAIDE, Anchor House, 142 North Terrace,
Tel. Cent. 7545 . . . PERTH, St. George's House, St.
George's Terrace, Tel. B 2453 . . . CANBERRA, Civic
Centre, Tel. F 615 . . . HOBART, Cr. Collins & Argyle Sts.,
Tel. 7411 ... LAUNCESTON, Cr. Brisbane & George Sts.,
Tel. 2061.


The Bulletin
Vol. 68 —No. 3510
Wednesday, May 21, 1947
LOOK WHO’S HERE AGAIN!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealanl) : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
AUTHORITY DISARMED.
“Armed with the viewpoint of the
Government,” we are told, the Federal
A.L.P. executive has resolved “to de-
clare war on the Communists.” As stage
Hibernians would say, the last straw
that caused the Government worm to turn
was the decision of the Building Trades
Federation, through its general secretary,
one of the Communists who have
had trips abroad at the taxpayers’
expense, to recommend to all affili-
ated unions that work on the
rocket range in Centralia should be de-
clared “black.” This, Dr. Evatt said,
could not be tolerated, and the A.L.P.
executive made the belated discovery
that “Communist propaganda is for the
sole purpose of defeating Australia’s de-
fence policy in the interests of a foreign
Power.”
The public may now expect the full
battery of “the Government viewpoint”
to be turned on the gang which has for
long pursued open hostility against the
Chifley Cabinet’s plans, administration
and governing authority, except at elec-
tion- and referendum-time. Ministers
may even at last have their eyes opened
to the ravages made by these licensed
bushrangers over the whole economic
field. The anarchy which is threatening
to wreck Australian industry has origi-
nated in the stupidity and weak-
ness of the Chifley “Labor” policy and
administration. That stupidity and weak-
ness have steadily fed the strike
mania and strengthened the hold of mili-
tants over the unions. As even the
A.C.T.U. executive declared, in a startled
moment, the economic life of the com-
munity is in danger.
Persistence in asserting war-time in-
dustrial regulations is becoming nothing
but a tyranny. It is used with the utmost
harshness against individuals, and with
marked timidity against any union which
rejects Government authority. The perse-
cution of importers and manufacturers
who cannot get approval for the sale of
their goods is bringing all Government
control into contempt, and spreading the
cancer of blackmarketing, which has never
even: been checked; and the hall-mark
of the tyrant is equally shown on the
reverse side in the ’supine inaction of
Canberra when militant unions ignore its
exhortations, appeals and cajolings to
respect the laws of the land.
All this has been playing directly into
the Commos’ hands. They have been
encouraged to believe that defiance of the
Government is a policy which pays divi-
dends.
In full awareness that the Commos
have declared as their aim the destruc-
tion of the arbitration system, the
Chifleys and Evatts proceeded to oblige
by destroying it. They chose the paralys-
ing strike in Victoria as the moment for
bringing on their bill to knock out the
authority of the Arbitration Court over
wages and hours, and in this field to
substitute “Conciliation Commissioners”
(whom Ministers for a while placidly
allowed Caucus. followers to proclaim in
debate as temperamentally-fitted union
agitators) for the Judges, in the process
talking claptrap about improving there-
by the efficiency of the system!
The A.E.U. conducted a deliberate
assault on the industrial life of Victoria in
order to annul an award of one of the
present Commissioners, whose work had
been extolled as a model for the swarm
of those shortly to be appointed. In
the Evatt bill no appeal was to be
allowed from these “conciliators’ ”
awards. Yet in the Victorian strike
the only way out the Cains and
Chifleys could find was by invoking the
Chief Judge to re-examine the contested
award of a “star” Commissioner.
This sabotage of the arbitration system
has come about through sheer submission
by “ ‘Labor’ Governments” to union
blackmail. So, too, was achieved Mr.
Chifley’s unwilling relaxation of wage-
pegging, though not in the case of poli-
ticians. At the same time this self-
advertising defender of the country
against inflation insisted, and still insists,
that labor costs need not therefore rise
against community goods and services,
because he will (also by union demand)
clamp down war-time ceilings on prices
of these commodities. Only in Bedlam
could Government control pretend to
maintain such a policy.
The “Government’s” temporising
during the second-reading debate on the
Arbitration Bill made some of its sup-
porters’ speeches look ridiculous, and
underlined again this Cabinet’s fumbling
and indecision. True, the Attorney
General obstinately refused to accept the
Opposition’s arguments against the pro-
posal to substitute Commissioners for
Judges in jurisdiction over all matters ex-
cept standard hours, female rates of pay,
basic wage and annual leave ; and, in
doing so, he was rejecting more than
what Ministers pretended was merely a
party view. He was flouting the advice
of Judge Foster’s report after intimate
investigation of the stevedoring industry
tribunal. Referring to the appointment of
laymen to such positions. Judge Foster
declared:
Perhaps a layman might be found who
would achieve that [success as chairman
of the commission] better than a Judge of
the Court, but my recommendation involves
those qualities which are to be found in
our judges in Australia, and not ordinarily,
in laymen. A specialised training, a
capacity to hear and determine, a knowledge
of law, of the rules of evidence, of the
weighing of evidence, an appreciation of
the necessity of proof, of weighing of in-
terests, and above all an independence and
freedom from political and other pressures.
Here it' is important to realise that a Judge
does in a special way represent the com-
munity interest and is on this tribunal the
only representation.
Nevertheless the second-reading debate,
and perhaps the wave of criticism out-
side Parliament also, did have some
moderating effect upon the “Govern-
ment’s” originally cocksure attitude, and,
whispering he would ne’er consent, Dr.
Evatt began to consent a little. He cir-
culated for committee work “numerous
amendments... . which should assist in
meeting at least some of the difficulties.”
He also made clear that of the proposed
fifteen laymen at least seven or eight
would be existing Conciliation Commis-
sioners.- But, as Mr. Holt said, these
could not be described as associated with
particular industries in fulfilment of the
Government’s intentions. Why Ministers
could not have cleared up promptly the
anxiety and dismay aroused by their
earlier loose statements, and the wild em-
bellishments thereof from their more
irresponsible supporters, is quite inex-
plicable.
There will thus be some nexus, per-
sonal and traditional, with the procedure
of the past which is to be changed.
Moreover, the Attorney-General ad-
mitted in committee the need for some
real correlation of the Commissioners’
work with the Chief Judge’s authority.
So upon the Chief Judge will now rest
the primary responsibility for assigning
Commissioners to industries, after which
the Chief Commissioner will organise and
allocate the work of each. Where a
complexity occurs “the Chief Judge and
the Chief Commissioner will work it out
together.”
When the clause dealing with Commis-
sioners’ absolute powers in making
awards came up Mr. Menzies tried to sub-
stitute the existing provisions of the prin-
cipal Act, preserving appeal to the Full
Court. Dr. Evatt would have none of
this ; yet one of his own amendments (by
way of an additional new clause) pro-
vided that the Court shall have power to
interpret an order or award, and to
grant leave to appeal to itself from any
act or decision of the Registrar. Another
Government amendment was drafted to
express, Dr. Evatt’s “belief that it would
be generally advisable for the Commis-
sioner to stay his hand pending a de-
termination [by the Court, on reference]
of a question that might go to the root
of his jurisdiction.” These were distinct
improvements on the first brusque draft-
ing. They justified the Menzies plea
that there should be appeal to the Court
by leave, and prompted the Opposition-
leader in the House to remark that he
wished the Attorney-General had earlier
appreciated the arguments he was now
himself advancing.
It is from this change of position that
the Opposition-leader in the Senate, on
transmission of the Bill to that Chamber,
moved —vainly, however —a modification
of Mr. Menzies’s main amendment in
the Representatives, to provide that any
party to a hearing before a Conciliation
Commissioner may, on any matter likely
to affect the public interest, appeal (on
leave being granted) to the Arbitration
Court. Where this piece of scamped
legislation now leaves the final authority
in award-making, as between the new
Commissioners and the Judges, is
ominously vague, and, as Mr. Menzies
warned Ministers, the elimination of de-
lays in hearings can hardly be served
thereby. Moreover, the Attorney-
General’s assumption that he can, by
dexterity in drafting, remove also any
appeal to the High Court for remedy
against injustice under the new system
is extremely doubtful.
From Washington to Truman.
American isolationists of the pre-war
era may feel that Congress, in granting
aid on a large scale to Greece and Turkey,
has departed violently and dangerously
from traditional American policy. Actu-
ally, the Fathers of the Republic in
their writings and speeches showed that
they clearly realised that, just as the
young nation gained its independence
as a by-product of a European war, so
could its continuance as a' sovereign
State be placed in jeopardy by the chang-
ing balance of power in the Old World.
During the French Revolutionary wars
Americans, with memories of Lafayette
and French assistance in their own
struggle, leaned sentimentally to France.
But when Bonaparte became First Consul,
and then Emperor, there were many who
recognised that in the ultimate reckoning
America was threatened as much as any
country in Europe. Washington’s famous
advice against entangling alliances was
not a plea for splendid isolation for iso-
lation’s sake, nor did he exclude the
possibility or deny the wisdom of foreign
alliances when circumstances made them
expedient. In the course of the Revo-
lutionary War he had approved alliances
with France, Holland and other Powers,
and it was the fear that France might
regard the earlier link as a continuing
obligation to assist her in European wars
that led him to utter his warning, which
was against tying the country permanently
to the apron-strings of another nation;
Tis our true policy to steer clear of
permanent alliances Taking care always
to keep ourselves, by suitable establish-
ments, on a respectable defensive posture,
we may safely trust to temporary alliances
for extraordinary emergencies.
The desirability of a temporary alliance
with a European Power, sometimes
France, more often England, was con-
tinually in the minds of early Presidents
and Secretaries of State. That it was
never translated into actuality was due
not to any objection to the principle,
but to the clear-headed logic of American
statesmen, who took the attitude that
there was no point in burning their
fingers while someone else was prepared
to pull the chestnuts out of the fire for
them. At the same time there is abundant
evidence that they realised the latent
threat to America in Napoleon’s dream
of world conquest. Even during the
war of 1812-14, in which America was not
allied to France —it fought a private*
quarrel with Britain on a limited-liability
basis —Jefferson is found expressing the
fear that if Napoleon defeats England
America will be in grave danger.
Earlier, Alexander Hamilton had re-
peatedly voiced his belief in the com-
munity of interest between England and
the new republic. In 1797, when
French men-o’-war and privateers were
showing no more respect for the Ameri-
can flag than did the U-boats over a cen-
tury later, Senator Cabot was moved to
say “If England will persevere she will
save Europe and save us ; but if she yields,
all will be lost.” Congress had just been
told that over 300 American ships had
been seized by the French during the
year. Britain alone was holding out
against the conqueror of Europe. The
situation and the sentiment were paral-
leled in 1917 and, with even closer co-
incidence, in 1940. This fear of France
was in the background of American
foreign policy right down to 1823, when
the announcement of the Monroe
Doctrine virtually gave America the
advantages of a British alliance with all
the liability on the side of England.
Jefferson was no great lover of Eng-
land or admirer of British institutions,
but his commonsense —a commodity with
which the Founding Fathers were well
endowed, however much it may have
been lacking in some of their successors
—told him that on matters of broad
policy the interests of the two English-
speaking nations were then, as today,
identical. The Oxford History of the
United States quotes Jefferson as writing
to his Minister in Paris in 1802, at a
time when France, having fallen heir to
Spain’s possessions in North America,
had a frontier marching with that of the
Union from the Great Lakes to the Gulf
of Mexico:
The day that France takes possession of
New Orleans.... we must marry ourselves
to the British fleet and nation. We must
turn all our attention to a maritime force
and make the first cannon which shall
sound in Europe the signal for holding
the two continents of America in seques-
tration for the common purposes of the
united British and American nations.
Although the vast territory then in-
cluded in the term Louisiana had been
ceded by Spain to France, the new owners
had made no attempt to take possession
of it, and in actual fact they never did.
In 1803 Napoleon sold it to America for
12,000,000 dollars, probably influenced
by the thought that if the uneasy peace
in Europe gave way to war —as indeed it
did soon after —he might lose it in any
case. Jefferson sent Monroe to Paris to
negotiate the purchase, and it is in-
teresting to note that he instructed
Monroe, in the event of negotiations with
France failing, to seek “a candid under-
standing and close connection with
Britain.”
In the early 1820’s, when the Holy
Alliance seemed to be bent on restoring
Spanish rule in South America, Canning
suggested to the American Ambassadoi
a joint Anglo-American declaration
against intervention. There was some
backing and filling between the two
Powers, in the course of which Monroe,
himself in favor of accepting Canning’s
offer, sought the advice of Jefferson and
Madison/ Jefferson was enthusiastic;
Madison wanted to go further and in-
clude a joint declaration in favor of the
independence of Greece, then in revolt
against Turkey. There was quite a pro-
Greek wave of feeling in America at the
time, and Monroe himself shared Madi-
son’s sentiments on the subject. The
first draft of his Message to Congress in-
cluded an acknowledgment of Greek
independence and the appointment of a
Minister to Athens, but Secretary-of-State
Adams persuaded him to confine his pro-
nouncement to the Western Hemisphere.
This was the birth of the Monroe
Doctrine, for over a century the be-all
and end-all of United States foreign
policy. There was no alliance with Eng-
land, and no joint statement, as Canning,
although anxious to prevent France and
Russia from interfering in South
America, was not yet ready to extend
full recognition to the new republics.
Nevertheless, implicit in the Doctrine was
the knowledge that if any European
Power wanted to test it out in actual
practice, British sea-power was there to
uphold it. And uphold it British sea-
power did, through nearly a century, dur-
ing which America herself had no Navy
worth speaking of, no real standing Army
and no foreign policy, except a belief that
she could hold aloof from “entangling
alliances.”
Sheltered behind the protective screen
of Britain’s undisputed command of the
sea, which during the nineteenth century
acted as an effective insulator to confine
European wars to the continent of
Europe—a thing that had not been pos-
sible since the discovery of the Indies
and the Americas—American statesmen
and people alike fell into the comfortable
belief that their immunity from the direct
impact of foreign wars was due to
distance, superior wisdom or some in-
herent virtue of the American Constitu-
tion. Only when it became clear that
Britain could no longer single-handed
police the world did America-at-large
realise that that was what Britain had
been doing. It took two World Wars to
teach the lesson. After the first war, too
many people in the States were induced
to believe that their entry into the Kaiser’s
war had been an act of knight-errantry,
having no relation to the interests or
existence of their own country, and cer-
tainly a gesture not lightly to be repeated.
The Founding Fathers, having fearnt their
foreign politics in a hard school, could
have told them different; but, as the
lesson had been forgotten, it had to be
learnt anew.
This time the men who are in charge of
American affairs seem to have learnt it.
America’s interest is in a world of peace,
as Britain’s was and is. Two would-be
world conquerors have been beaten to
their knees, but a third, possessing sinister
forces neither of the others could com-
mand, has gathered into his maw large
portions of their looted empires and
seeks, by threats and blackmail, further
gains from a war-sick world. It is a
situation which British statesmen of an
earlier day would well have known how
to meet, but Britain, bled white by two
wars, in which she fought not for herself
alone, is in no case to apply the familiar
treatment, which is to give money, re-
sources and, equally important, moral
support to any threatened country pre-
pared to stand up to the bully. That
America alone can do, and that is what
Congress is doing in voting aid to Greece
and Turkey. It is an action for which
Congress and the President need make no
apology. It is a policy of which Washing-
ton and Jefferson would have thoroughly
approved. Belatedly the Americans are
accepting their destiny. They have but
to go forward with courage and resolu-
tion, and they will, with the British Com-
monwealth, save the world from the
horrors of a Third World War.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"This Freedom."
Without doubt the Melbourne City
Council is doing the proper thing, in a
democracy that values its liberty, with
preparations to challenge in the High
Court—failing a general exemption—the
validity of the sections of the Common-
wealth Government’s Banking Act which
prohibit trading banks after August 1
from conducting any banking for any
State authority or for any local-govern-
ment body. The Local Government
Association in N. S. Wales and corre-
sponding bodies in other States are com-
mitted to similar action.
The Chifley Cabinet’s directions have
gone out in the form of notices to 200
municipal and shire councils and road
boards and the like throughout Austria.
Protests against this dictation from Can-
berra on the way in which local-govern-
ing authorities shall conduct their affairs
are pouring into the Treasury from all
quarters. As many councils are repre-
senting to the N.S.W.L.G. Association,
this banking requirement is “an undemo-
cratic intrusion, striking at the funda-
mentals of local government.” The first
request for exemption is being turned
down automatically, except where proof
is shown that the Commonwealth Bank
cannot give “facilities.”
Arbitrary suppression of the business
of trading banks is, of course, aimed at,
as well as the curtailment of local self-
governing rights. If this were permitted
without challenge no business enterprise
in Australia could consider itself safe.
Nor, perhaps, could any depositor.
The constitutional warrant under which
the Socialists at Canberra are acting is
found in subsection XIII of section 51,
authorising the Federal Parliament to
make laws for “the peace, order and good
government of the Commonwealth with
respect to banking other than State
banking; also State banking extending
beyond the limits of the State con-
cerned.” The uproar and indignation
now provoked is the very negation of
“peace, order and good government.”
Moreover, if this assault on orderly and
established banking business and local
self-governing rights were to succeed the
precedent would be set for dictatorial'
interference with any and every com-
mercial activity. Tyranny grows by what
it feeds upon and will stop at no usur-
pation of individual freedom while the
citizens tolerate its inroads.
This tendency to aggrandisement of
power at the centre is particularly ob-
noxious where it springs from partisan
designs. “Labor” is, for party ends, per-
sistently hostile to local government ex-
cept where “Labor” controls it or may
increase its area of control. The McKell
move to amalgamate perforce Sydney
metropolitan councils was a notable in-
stance of this hostility, and it was shown
again the other day when the N.S.W.
Local Government Minister, Mr. Cahill,
intervened to oppose a Sydney City Coun-
cil rejection of an application to build
a factory in Surry Hills. This was the
second occasion on which Mr. Cahill had
vetoed a City Council decision based on
plans to preserve residential amenities in
certain areas.
In an age when social progress de-
mands nothing so much as the preserva-
tion and extension of local government
this “Labor” attitude is a positive brake
on national development.
Local self-government is one of the
foundations of British freedom. Per-
haps that is why “Labor” aims at destroy-
ing it.
"Lenient" Once More.
On the night of February 25 a young
domestic employed at Rockhampton (Q.)
went out alone on the river bank to take
the air. It was the poor thing’s last walk ;
her body, defiled, deserted, dead, was
found that night. She had obviously
been bashed as well as raped.
Going to an empty house 20 miles
away, the. police arrested three men, all
younger than the woman —a railway
porter (18), a “laborer” (20) and a shed-
hand (21) They confessed that they had
raped the girl, and that she had
under their attack while a handkerchief
was forced over her mouth to prevent
her from screaming. They did not give
evidence at the trial. The jury returned
what Justice Brennan—who had made
strong comments on the court being
crowded by morbid-minded persons of
both sexes—called a “lenient finding”
o£ manslaughter. Bound, as it were, by
the “lenient finding,” his Honor sentenced
each of the foul and cowardly ruffians
to seven years’ imprisonment.
It was open to the jury to have brought
in a verdict of murder, so “lenient” is a
mild term. There is something terribly
wrong with the law when wild beasts in
human form can pounce on a lonely
woman, outrage and destroy her and go
scot free after a few years in jail.
Many women have to go out at night
without male escort. All of them are
entitled to believe that they have the in-
visible but nevertheless powerful protec-
tion of a law which, once it detected the
perpetrator of a rape or an attempt at
rape, would deal out such punishment as
would deter other vile two-legged animals.
Unfortunately, as in a recent Sydney
case—a middle-aged working woman re-
turning from a music lesson was done to
death in a park in daylight by a ruffian
who had grabbed her handbag; 12
years —and as in the Queensland
case, the law as it stands neither ade-
quately protects the victim nor sufficiently
punishes the criminal. That condition
must be altered or it will lead to the
male friends and relatives of outraged
women administering their own form of
retributive justice.
Lifeblood Lacking.
Apart from the evil wrought in industry
throughout Australia by the new wave of
N.S.W. coalfields stoppages, there is
upon us again the perennial winter-time
OUT, OLD DIGGER!
“W. F. Dunn, M.L.A. since 1910 —with one break - A.I.F. captain (1915-18) and
member of five Cabinets, was the only Minister refused re-election by the N.S.W. ‘Labor’
Caucus.”
anxiety about the provision of sufficient
coal reserves to tide over the next Christ-
mas holidays of the miners. The charac-
teristic accompaniment, a move by some
associated union to throw the whole coal
industry idle, is not wanting. The engine-
drivers and firemen threaten a general
strike against the Federal Government for
inaction in face of the union’s demand to
be brought under the new coal tribunal
and to get what has been granted to em-
ployees of the insolvent Victorian Gov-
ernment railways.
Industry, living on fuel from hand to
mouth, has little prospect of expanding
beyond the limits set by miners’ produc-
tion, which is very little more than the
151,000 tons weekly consumed. One of
the Joint Coal Board’s distribution
officers said this at the hearing of the
miners’ claim for more holidays. If the
miners took three weeks at Christmas,
he said, industry would require at least
five weeks’ supply on hand, 750,000 tons.
B.H.P. production and gas and elec-
tricity supplies in three States are
threatened. Satisfaction of requirements
in Victoria and South Australia is
a standing anxiety with the Joint
Coal Board, and the inability of
the Miners’ Federation to assure steady
work has in four months led to a fall of
nearly a full week’s Australia-wide con-
sumption of N.S.W. coal. That is to say,
ip a full year the miners are cutting out-
put by three weeks’ supply, and their de-
mand for three weeks at the year’s end
would increase the shortage in annual
output to six weeks’ production. Industry
cannot stand such a deprivation.
“Direct action” by the F.E.D.F.A. to
force its arbitration demands laid many
Cessnock pits and open-cut mines idle.
Half a dozen other mines were deserted
for one reason or another, and
Abermain No. 1 had just resumed after
five weeks’ idleness because two unions
could not agree on which should claim
the body and soul (and union fees) of a
pipe-fitter, By the end of the week out-
put on the northern field had been re-
duced by half.
This is a miserable picture of union
co-operation in the supremely important
task of expanding production and
creating conditions for the influx of over-
seas industries which Canberra Ministers
are counting as chickens in the still-
unhatched eggs of their Golden-Age nest.
The English expert Professor Jones, who
has completed his detailed inspection of
eastern coalfields, said in South Australia
that Australian miners’ working condi-
tions were the best in the world but that
organisation and equipment were obso-
lescent. He warned Australians that con-
tinuance in out-moded mining practice
would cripple all their schemes for in-
dustrial advancement and that con-
sumers mus! change their habit of using
the richest coal where inferior stocks
would serve.
The current difficulty is to get N.S.W.
coal of any grade. And there will be no
chance of reorganising the coal industry
in conformity with modern practice
overseas while reorganisation is depen-
dent on “Government” initiative. There
is no such animal nor has the “Govern-
ment” any guts. Well supplied with that
commodity, President Truman got the
U.S. soft-coal mines working again and
reduced the enormous John L. Lewis to
a figure of fun; but to “Labor” Truman
is a “reactionary” or something like that.
Forgan Smith, Chancellor.
It is not in the nature of William Forgan
Smith to claim credit for any part of
his work as Chancellor of the Queens-
land University. His preference is for
“paying a tribute to all the members of
the University staff.” All the same, his
influence can be traced in the vigorous
way in which the University is meeting
the challenge of difficult times. When
he was Premier he provided a million
pounds for buildings.
The end of the war brought a great
increase of students from the services,
and accommodation became a problem,
as has been the case with every other
foundation in Australia. The University
Senate bespoke the use of 14 buildings
erected by the Navy, and the State Gov-
ernment came in with £22,500 for con-
version. In the result, with Public Works
and the Architectural section of the Uni-
versity co-operating briskly, accommo-
dation was provided for 3798 students,
an increase of 691 for the year. Of the
3798, 1596 are ex-servicemen and -women,
703 being day students, 403 evening
students and 490 “external” students ; and
52 young people from the services re-
ceived degrees at the graduation cere-
mony.
Queenslanders no longer have to go
south or oversea? to qualify as doctors.
Their University has a Faculty of Medi-
cine which is already showing impressive
results. The faculties of Engineering,
Architecture and Agriculture are also
receiving great attention. To Engineer-
ing, courses in aeronautical engineering
and naval architecture, and to Architec-
ture degrees courses are being added, and
the University is co-operating with the
State Department of Agriculture and with
Gatton College in the training of agri-
cultural specialists, research workers and
technicians. It aims, moreover, at in-
stituting courses in Public Administration
and Social Studies, subjects naturally
dear to the Chancellor’s heart, especially
as “many varied and powerful interests
are operating as pressure groups, seeking
economic and political domination to
their own advantage.”
All people, and University students in
particular, should take an interest in the
government of their country and in inter-
national affairs. There is a danger of many
of the organisations called into being for
the establishment of the Four Freedoms
becoming a battleground for world domina-
tion.
Dictatorship of any kind should be re-
sisted at all times. It is noxious, whether
it comes from the Right or the Left, the
West or the East.
In the drama of international power-
politics the life and well-being of the
individual are given scant, if any, attention.
We are the guardians of our own liberty.
We should never allow it to be filched from
us or surrender it in any way. It is there-
fore our duty, as well as our privilege, to
defend democracy against attacks, either
from within or without; and in order to
do so we must be well informed on all
those matters so that human freedom, hap-
piness and security can be extended to all
people.
That was well said. Very well said by
a man with a modem mind and withal a
sense of history, sprung from a race
which has known what it is to see “dis-
cord burst in slaughter.”
The Northern Territory.
From “Ek Dum,” who was there last
year:—
Having issued its report on Northern Terri-
tory administration for 1944-1945 —“ordered to
be printed March 21, 1947” —the “Government”
has made another pretence of granting the N.T.
“self-government.” It is exactly like the “self-
government” which the Territory was given
quarter of a century ago and which ceased
to exist when the locally-elected “councillors”
became tired of travelling hundreds of arduous
miles to hear a civil-service majority make
their decisions for them, expiring like a drought-
stricken goanna.
The new council has the same ingredients
as the old one, though in different quantities.
There is the Administrator, with power of
absolute veto over the Council —he, of course,
will in turn be subject to the Minister’s abso-
lute veto. There are to be seven other official
members and six elected members, so that the
officials will always be in control.
This is “because the Territory is not self-
supporting,” which is also the “reason” why
“finance resolutions cannot be proposed in the
Council except by the Administrator.” All
ordinances are subject to Federal Parliamentary
or Executive disallowance.
The “capital,” of course, will be at Darwin,
far from the centre of economic activity, and
the rural councillors will be able to contem-
plate there the squandering of millions on use-
less schemes, as an earnest that the Territory
will never be able to pay for itself and thus
will remain for ever under official control.
Even in this position it needs to be stressed
that on all the really vital matters, such as
postal arrangements and defence, Territorians
will continue to have no vote either personally
or through their member at Canberra.
Territory opinion is divided on self-govern-
ment. Very oddly, it is big graziers and
absentee companies that side with the Chifleys,
and the “proletariat” that is against “Labor”
on the point. Graziers in general had a right
royal war, justified by the kind of propaganda
about hardship (true in rare cases only) which
was embodied in “The Overlanders,” a film
which made Territorians roar with cynical
laughter.
These graziers have gone income-tax-free for
years, and are to go income-tax-free for more
years, on the ground of hardship and in con-
sideration of improvement covenants which so
far have been ignored by a large proportion.
One of the “small” men, who drives his
cattle a mere ten or twenty miles to the “Alice”
railhead and has them carried for £2 10s. on a
railway which Commonwealth taxpayers
heavily subsidise —to Adelaide, where they sell
up to £2O a head, admitted—not privately—to
the writer that he had in 1945-46 taken £37,000
off his property, which cannot cost £lOOO a year
to run. On this £37,000 he paid no tax what-
ever. His is no isolated case in the Alice Springs
district.
Victoria River Downs, an absentee holding
with 11,000 square miles of beautiful breeding
and fattening country, has a station house
that belongs to the era of the ’nineties. If
any N. S. Wales or Queensland pastorahst
asked a shearer to live in the conditions of
housing which exist at, say, its Montijinnie
outstation, where a capable Queenslander with
his wife and small children were last year in-
stalled, the A.W.U. and its Mr. Johnson would
start a fierce State-wide protest. Victoria River,
so far from putting in improvements, does not
even brand or earmark its cattle. Yet it is
income-tax-free. Its main roads and stock-
route bores are kept in order at Government
expense. . , ,
Resumptions in the Territory supposedly take
place to let the small man have a chance.
Usually the small man has as much chance
as a feather in Hades —Blam, the Digger
member, cited a case last year in Parliament
in which Alexandria (10,000 sq. miles) got back
a block resumed from it in preference to small
applicants. No explanation was offered by the
Minister except the sneer that the thing hap-
pened while the Territory was unrepresented
in Parliament, i.e., while its fighting member
was a prisoner-of-war in Borneo.
Station managers and station workers—
with a few exceptions —and the ordinary hard-
working citizen have none of the privileges
of the absentee company and big grazier under
“Labor” rule. They paid their share of war
costs like anyone else, subject to a negligible
zoning rebate. , .
What the Territory needs at the moment is
not a “Legislative” Council but a Royal
Commission of inquiry into its gross misgovern-
ment and into why the Commonwealth is being
milked of thousands a year to provide bores
and keep up roads which should be maintained
by pastoral companies, as they are elsewhere;
•also, into the privileges which certain large
mining concerns seem to enjoy, and in which
smaller concerns do not share.


ct£
i
mm
8575
CRAVEN A
quality Is something you
can rely on—always
/
CARRERAS LTD. ■ OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
: ; ■
POLITICAL POINTS
When the N.S.W. “Labor” Caucus
.failed to agree on the distribution of the
plums of’office, 14 in the last “Parlia-
ment” besides McGirr’s, that worthy de-
cided that there should be 15 plums, hold-
ing the bill 'in reserve for the taxpayers.
How thoughtful of him, and how thought-
ful of the Federal “Labor” Caucus to de-
cide on a £5OO p.a. increase in Parlia-
mentary pay without letting the voting
fodder know before the N.S.W. and
Queensland Assembly elections! This
tender consideration is never extended to
sick servicemen. They have been refused
a promised clinic in the Grace Building,
Sydney—promised because journeys to
Randwick and Concord are too hard on
them in every way—it having been be-
latedly discovered that the Taxation De
partment had superior claims. For the
Taxation Department— not truth or
common humanity in these “Labor” times
—is mighty and will prevail.
Actuated by magnanimity or scare
or something, McGirr decided not to
run a ticket for Ministers at “the spill,”
although it was a ticket that made him
Premier. In the result, some of his faith-
fuls were left out in the cold, Carlton,
the member for Concord, fared worst.
As Government Whip he had a fair claim
to promotion to the Ministry. He was
not only refused office, but was voted
out of his Whipship in favor of-a com-
parative newcomer in the public-house
line, McGrath, was as cruel in its
way as the ousting of Dunn, Old Digger,
Father of the House and the party’s most
experienced administrator. While the
Heffron-McGirr hullabaloo was raging
Dunn was seriously considered as an
alternative leader and Premier —so quickly
does “Labor” forget.
N. S. Wales now has 16 “Labor”
Ministers and Queensland has ten. They
are mostly city chaps, though some of the
city chaps represent country electorates.
Brisbane can claim Premier Hanlon,
Gair, who succeeds Walsh as Deputy
Premier, and Power, one of the two
new Ministers —Duggan, of Toowoomba,
is the other —and Ipswich has Gledson.
Of the 14 N.S.W. Assembly Ministers
eight (McGirr, Heffron, C. Evatt, Martin,
Weir, O’Sullivan, J. J, Cahill and the
new Matthews) are from Sydney elector-
ates, and four others (Finnan, Baddeley,
Knight and Kelly) from electorates 50 to
150 miles from Sydney. Only Graham
and the other new man Sheahan can be
credited to the country. New England
has noted this city predominance for
future action.
A couple of months ago Chifley was
heard declaring that Australia “had done
all it could” in the matter of helping to
feed the British. Coles, the Rationing
Commission chairman, who knows a
great deal more about food supply than
any of the 19 Ministers, has persuaded
him that something more could be done.
From June 1 all eating houses, hotels,
clubs, canteens, sandwich shops and so
forth are to have a compulsory meatless
and butterless day a week —their meat
and butter rations are to be cut by a
seventh. Coles expects an extra 3500
tons of meat and 520 tons of butter a
year for the British as a result, in addi-
tion to the amounts gained from volun-
tary surrender of coupons—opposed by
the Chifleys till opposition became inex-
pedient—and from municipal. Red Cross,
R.S.L. and Graziers’ Associations and
private efforts in sending of parcels.
At a moment when young R.A.N.
ratings—few men with long service were
involved—were threatening public dem-
onstrations against the miserable ss, 6d.-
a-day basic pay, the Government came
out with a schedule of higher rates for
all the services. Mr. Dedman says the
higher rates (operative from July 1) are
designed to “induce young men to enter
the services for short terms or as a
career.” If the basic lowest adult rate of
10s. or 11s. a day is the temptation no re-
cruiting sergeants will be killed in the
crush. On the face of the figures in the
press the services will still hold pride of
place as the worst-paid in the English-
speaking world.
Something has gone wrong in the Com-
munist liaison department, not only in
respect of the ban on the rocket range,
repudiated in a panic by the Corns’
central committee, but in regard to the
boycott of Dutch shipping. One Camp-
bell, “the Indonesian trade representative
in Australia,” boasted at a polyglot
trade-union congress in Java that the
Waterside Workers’ Federation boycott
of Dutch shipping, a source of pride to
Australians, he alleged, was to be made
“world-wide.” The W.W.F. Healy—an-
other Healy, previously McCracken, is
attending the polyglot congress for the
Brisbane Labor Council—hurriedly de-
clared that he knew nothing of any such
plan. Roach, his assistant secretary, is at
the polyglot congress, and Roach was
promptly heard from jn championship of
the ban (continuance of which was de-
cided upon), in a promise of the same
to India and in an assurance, of backing
for the U.S.S.R. against the United States.
Any Australian Government worthy the
name would be exploring the resources
of the Crimes Act and oiling its depor-
tation machinery.
The American Jew Ben Hecht, who
draws income from Australia, in “an
open letter to the terrorists of Palestine”:
The Jews of America are for you
Every time you Mow up a British arsenal,
wreck a British jail, send a British railroad
train skyhigh, rob a British bank, or let
go with your guns and bombs at. the
British betrayers and invaders of your
homeland, the Jews of America make little
holiday in their hearts.
That reminds us, Mr. Calwell. When may
we expect the next lot of “Palestinians”
and the next draft of Jews from
Shanghai, where reffos recently passed A
ferociously anti-British resolution?
A Food-for-Britain collection in Syd-
ney Catholic churches brought in nearly
£5OOO and thousands of meat and butter
coupons. From a church in Surry Hills,
pictured in “S. M. Herald’s” first-prize
serial as an abomination of sordidness,
came £B7. Did you notice it, Granny,
and you, Mr. McGirr, and you, Mr.
Chifley?
When McGirr returned to Sydney
from his N.S.W. country tour he told
the world his party would “hold all its
present country seats and win Armidale,
Maitland and Upper Hunter,” also
suburban Manly. In the result his party
lost three country seats and went close to
losing three others. As for the certain
gains, this was the voting: Armidale,
Drummond (C.P.), 7596, Harvison (Lab.),
5984 ; Maitland, Howarth (Lib.), 9245,
O’Hearn (Lab.), 5963 ; Upper Hunter,
Rose (C.P.), 9354, Speers (Lab.), 5379 ;
Manly, Darby (Lib.), 17,345, Cahill
(Lab.), 10,101.' Darby’s majority was
nearly 1500 more than McGirr’s in Banks-
town, and McGirr’s was the biggest on
the “Labor” side, except where Com-
munists were the only opponents.
Last week, while the discussion about
Mt. Eba was in progress, a denunciation
of the Communists’ viewpoint was issued
by ’R. A. King, M.L.C., secretary of
the N. S. Wales Labor Council, and
one of those “moderates.” Last week
Communist bookshops put on (sale a
pamphlet on the history of the “Labor”
party, written by the principal of Marx
House —the Communist Central Commit-
tee’s training college— to which a glow-
ing introduction is provided by R. A.
King, M.L.C., the sterling “moderate.”
“Labor,” crazy about trips for all and
sundry, is already talking about giving
the Vice-King a trip to London “to see
the King.” Isaac Isaacs, whose name was
used as a sort of precedent or something
for the McKell appointment, didn’t go
to London until he’d been five years in
the job, and what he spent was a baga-
telle to what it would cost to tote McKell
and staff abroad —£10,000 at least, not
reckoning in the tax-free £lO,OOO a year.
In Redfern, by the way, the new man
Noble polled a greater vote and got a
bigger majority than did McKell in 1944.
Noble’s figures were 12,054 and 6281 ;
McKell’s 11,299 and 4053. And Noble
had three candidates to beat, McKell one.
At long last one of those maddeningly
restrictive war-time controls has been
removed. The housewife may now go
forth, with shopping-bag, wheelbarrow
or motor-truck, without coupons or fear
of inspectors, and buy as much chicory
as she likes. National Security (Tea Con-
trol) Regulations have been amended to
that effect.
Professor Julius Stone, scolding Isaac
Isaacs in an Open Letter (“Stand Up
and Be Counted”) in 1944:
The safety of Imperial communications
via Sydney, in which not only Britain but
Australia and New Zealand are vitally
interested, has been increased, and that
substantially, by the presence of the young
Jewish Homeland [in Palestine].
Stone is careful not to return to this
theme as an A.B.C. “commentator,” and
there hasn’t been even a hint of it in
the U.N.O. discussions.
Having got their staffs back on a more
or less precarious tenure, the Victorian
Railways Commissioners announce a five-
year plan for modernising country ser-
vices, cost, £15,000,000. The programme
includes a number of aid-conditioned
Spirits of Progress with unbreakable
glass windows, special rubber cushions
and automatic couplings to eliminate
vibration; and large sections of main
lines are to be relaid to permit faster
running. It woulcl sound like heaven to
the countryman inured to the dodder-
ing old juggernauts of the existing
system if he knew how the luxury was
going to be paid for. Victorian railways
have always lost money, and .they have
lost it at a great rate lately through
strikes and road competition. Melbourne
would have starved during the rail strike
but for the private road transport which
the “Government” does its best to ham-
per
The Great “Labor” Victory in Queens-
land, the sixth in 15 years, and in that
period the second with a minority of
votes in the constituencies, was hailed by
Hanlon as “a record among democratic
countries.” Our courteous Canadian
friends in these parts would smile. Since
the second Riel rebellion in 1885 Quebec,
which has more than three times
Queensland’s population, has never
been without a Liberal Govern-
ment except when there was a party
split. Statesman’s Year-Book records go
back only 35 years, but they show that
the Quebec Liberals were returned in
1912, T 6, T 9, ’23, ’27, ’3l, ’35 and ’39, on
four occasions by a majority of over
seven to one. And no Australian “Labor”
P.M. or subordinate Minister can match
the achievement of Mackenzie King—
P.M. for 21 years since 1921, and
Minister of External Affairs and chairman
of the Privy Council also. Canberra has
had three men doing the work of this
one man.
The irrational habit of “voting down
the ballot-paper” saved Curtin in Fre-
mantle six years ago, when he had
abandoned hope. Last week it saved
Landa in Bondi; down 423 on primaries,
he ended up with a majority of 2192,
because nearly all the Langist voters had
marked their ballot-papers in alpha-
betical order. But the silly business
works both ways, as was shown in
Newtown, where more than half the Com-
munist preferences went to Mrs. Fowler
and re-elected that Langist lady, who in
1944 unseated Burke, the former “Labor”
Speaker. Burke took his beating philo-
sophically. Not so ms successor in the
nomination, a worthy with the Dickensian
name of Greenup. At the declaration of
the poll Greenup pointed an accusing
finger at Mrs. Fowler, standing with arms
akimbo, and threatened her with all the
pains and penalties of the Electoral Act,
whatever they may be.
A Supreme Court petition has been
lodged against the return of Hegney, the
“Labor” M.L.A. for Pilbara (W.A.), who
got in on the returning officer’s casting
vote. His opponent claims that the re-
turning officer wrongly rejected two
postal votes marked “Taplin I,” and that
Taplin should be declared elected.
Two drastic measures against the
tyranny of union bosses have been passed
in Congress. The milder of the two,
adopted in the Senate by 68 to 24—which
means that it commands a majority of
both parties—outlaws the closed shop,
jurisdictional or demarcation strikes,
secondary boycotts and unions with Com-
munist or fellow - traveller officials.
The House measure vetoes picketing
with violence, requires union balance-
sheets, forbids unions to contribute to
party funds and permits them to be sued
for “unfair labor practices.” A com-
promise law will necessarily be the out-
come, but the most drastic features are
sure to be preserved,
“Craiser’s” natural-history note:
The discovery of a large colony of brush-
tailed rock wallabies in the hitherto unexplored
valley of the Suggan Buggan River by a party
of experts from the Melbourne National
Museum conducting researches in Gippsland
has raised speculations as to whether other
species of Australian mammalia, believed to
have been extinct for generations, may yet
be found in similar almost inaccessible fast-
nesses of Nature. It is now believed that the
rock wallaby, which is an independent little
creature, was not forced away from the haunts
of civilisation by the ferocity of gunmen but
voluntarily sought isolation as a protest against
the modern tendency towards bureaucratic
regimentation. That this is so is indicated by
the fact that, although quite tame in the begin-
ning, the animals all fled at the sight of a
printed form which one of the party happened
to be reading. After that it was impossible
to get near them, and the only specimen
obtained was a dead one.
It would be interesting to know how
much time Clarey has spent in his Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry these last
three months. He was in Canberra, this
time on A.L.P., not A.C.T.U., business
when a nasty reverse was suffered by his
“Government” in the Victorian Leg.
Council. On motion for adjournment,
carried against the Government by 20 to
4, J, A. Kennedy brought up the subject
of Works Minister Kennedy’s boycott of
the “Argus,” which in a spirit of victi-
misation that, as Kennedy said, “strikes
at the very vitals of the freedom of the
press,” he deprived of Government
advertisements. In the result Kennedy’s
“Government” is in danger again, Ken-
nedy was at Canberra with Clarey.
In the uproar welling out of Canberra
last week over the Corns and the rocket-
range and the Dedman' £lOO wager
against Fadden proving that tax rebates
are harder on family men than the old
deduction method —almost any taxpayer
could have confuted Dedman—a small
voice was heard announcing that Federal
“Labor” intends to start a daily news-
paper, with a head office in Melbourne
and branches to be set up in other States.
“Labor” dailies have been tried in Hobart,
Sydney (2), Brisbane and Adelaide. All
failed so horribly that the best part of
a million went west. The poor old
unionist, already up for the maintenance
of “Labor” and Commo publications,
will be “the mug” once more.
From H. G. Rosendorff, Perth (W.A.):
I protest most emphatically against the
coupling of my name in the manner done by
“Ek Dum” (B. 23/4/’47). I certainly represent
“Focus,” and I am very pleased to do so.
A close study of “Focus” will show that it
is not Communist, even if Communists write
in that paper. I was in the A.I.F. and served
with the 33 Aust. Works Coy. in Hollandia
and Morotai. I was a corporal in the 22nd
Aust. Employment Coy. until I Was allowed to
serve with the A.1.F.; I had a WX number
for a considerable time. I am a returned
soldier, a member of the R.S.L. and a
naturalised British subject.


“FIRM STAND.”
“Federal A.L.P. executive resolution: ‘We congratulate the Prime Minister on the firm stand taken by the Government on the proposed
black ban on the rocket-range project.’ ”
P.C. 1917; “And which way do you say the safeblower went?”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pitt St.”: The Yanks invaded Sydney
again last Saturday, the ships of U.S.
Task Force 38 steaming up the harbor,
whose foreshores were lined with wel-
coming crowds, and swapping gun salutes.
Whatever form of welcome the con.
men, blackmarketeers, crook taxi drivers
and ladies of pleasure had arranged didn’t
altogether come off ; the visitors had been
well warned and instructed, not only as
to what a dollar is really worth in Aus-
tralian money but as to the unsavory
characters awaiting them. Accommoda-
tion in decent Australian homes and a
festival of real entertainment had been
arranged for officers and men, as was
the case in Melbourne, also. Australia
has good cause to welcome the Ameri-
cans, not only as battle brothers, but as
representatives of one country that has
no illusions about national defence or
trying to keep the peace without the
weapons to do it.
“R.C.”: During the American inva-
sion of North Queensland two of us on
day leave were picked up by a negro
driving a truck-load of bombs to a
’drome. He drove along the winding
scrub track like nobody’s business. We
came to a straight bit of going, at the
end of which was a narrow bridge. Ap-
proaching the bridge from the other side
was another truck. Our driver called
on his truck for an extra burst of
speed. He got it; and the bombs at the
back wobbled and rolled all over the
floor of the truck. “Strewth,” said my
mate desperately, “what’s going to hap-
pen if we meet on the bridge?” The
coon rolled his eyes. “That guy’s
gonna get a great surprise if he hits us! ”
he said. That guy didn’t hit us.
* * # *
“D. Empson”: Who will deliver us
from the radio “pussonality,” one of the
horrors of this queer age? There is a
school of announcers who shout at the
top of their voices, breaking into an
idiotic chuckle on the same dull model.
There is a tribe of radio “actors” who
gabble at the rate of 200 words a
minute. There are soap operas and dude-
ranch explosions and languid lady croon-
ings. And there was a Food-for-Britain
quiz, at which the most momentous
question concerned the precise month in
which Willie Somebody burst on the sea
of inanity with his. formula “ ’Ow are
yer, This masterpiece of the
navvies’ camp passes for exquisite humor
in the radio world.
• * • •
“Curate’s Egg”: In matters affecting
library books many people seem to
slough their normal sense of morality.
One Australian ’Varsity has been forced
to threaten with expulsion students de-
tected in deliberately misfiling textbooks,
so that the tomes become lost to everyone
other than the concealer. Other pub-
lic nuisances are the readers who pencil
comments in the margins of books. Often
these are prize prigs who amend non-
existent syntactical errors. Generally the
observance of such a note is an invifa-
tion to others to convert the page to the
appearance of a pakapu ticket. But oc-
casionally the notes are refreshing. One
I found against a dialogue which was
virtually a comparison of their seduction
technique by two elderly rogues. A cryp-
tic note in a feminine hand read “Only
Little Nell would fall for it, old boy!”
• * * *
“Buro - Krat”: As a straitlaced
citizen, it gave me a shock to see a
flapper mincing down the street in my
pyjamas—or so it seemed. Passing
through Finschhafen a couple of years
ago I blew into the Yankee officers’ shop
and bought several pairs of pyjamas for
post-war use. Peace caught the Yanks
with big stocks of this pyjama material,
and they unloaded it to a dress-manu-
facturer ; hence my flapper.
* * * *
“Gee Ay”: At the time Singapore was
tottering our M.L.A. turned up to
open a flower show in our one-pub vil-
lage of Sugar Mill. In thunderous tones
he extolled the virtues of the locality and
the fighting spirit of its inhabitants.
Carried away by the occasion, he thumped
the table and bellowed “The enemy may
take Singapore; the enemy may even
enter the streets of Darwin, but, ladies
and gentlemen, he will never”—here he
paused for effect —“I say he will never
pass Sugar Mill.” In Sugar Mill his speech
is quoted almost as often as Churchill’s
finest,
* ♦ * *
From “Percy Pawnticket”;
The change in the shopping street scene in 50
years is not merely a matter of the
disappearance of the posts that supported
corrugated-iron awnings before cantilevers came
“We Won't have to Wait long now.”
in, the divided window-panes that preceded
plate-glass, the shutters considered essential to
protect the premises during closed hours, the
goods spread over the pavement before days
of restriction, and the absence of display in
the windows —“window-dressing” had yet to
become an art, and anyway the exposure of
women’3 undies would have been regarded as
scandalous. The businesses themselves have
changed. Radio and electrical gadgets places,
beauty parlors and hamburger joints are,
of course, newcomers. In a suburban shop-
ping block I counted three florists’ shops, three
delicatessens, three cake shops, and two lend-
ing libraries. People who live in flats and
rooms want flowers; in former days when
people grew their own one might have to go
to another suburb to find the rare florist;
and women who bought cakes instead of mak-
ing them were ashamed of themselves. The
stolid “Baker and Confectioner” did only a
moderate trade in the more expensive lines.
The newsagencies (more plentiful before the
“block” system for paper deliveries was in-
troduced) usually ran a corner for a lending
library. When a shop could be had for a
pound a week or' less (with living quarters
attached) it would have been considered mad-
ness to concentrate on the book-lending
business. The housewife provided her own
cooked corned-beef and did most of the
clothes-cleaning which now occupies some more
shop premises. Chemists’ shops, which are now
like beauty parlors, were staid, rather awesome
places with big phials containing red and blue
liquid in their windows. Chain stores were,
of course, unknown; but there were more
ironmongers for the trade of the home handy-
man, who seems to have vanished. Plumbers
ran to shops, too; while “Draper and Mercers,”
not yet beaten by the big city businesses,
flourished. A Rip Van Winkle returning to
his village shopping centre after his long sleep
would find it a strange world. The change
is mostly indicative of the passing of the
age of self-help. Fifty per cent, of the shops
today provide services in things that a former
generation used to grow, do or make for itself.
• • * «
“J.0’8.”: From Washington comes
news of the biggest faux pas in State
Department history. President Aleman,
of Mexico, was welcomed with hundreds
of fluttering “Mexican” flags—till a
newspaperman pointed out that the flags
were Italian, and that Mexico and Italy
were still officially at war! In Sydney,
such a mistake would quite likely go un-
noticed. So great is our ignorance of
flag etiquette that the Union Jack may
be seen flying after sunset, even over the
harbor-bridge approaches. On Princess
Elizabeth’s 21st birthday one of our posh
hotels showed its allegiance to the House
of Windsor by flying three flags, Chinese.
French and Russian, from its Martin-
place facade.
* * * *
“Bymp”; A ship with a hoodoo on it
reminiscent of Conrad’s The Brute has
shaken the mud of the Yarra off its
propellers after an involuntary stay of
219 days in Melbourne. She is the British
freighter Abitibi, which arrived in Mel-
bourne last October with a cracked pro-
peller shaft. A new one was sent for
from Sydney and was due to be fitted on
November 13 —the day the engineers’
strike bftgan. Three months later the
bosun was shot and robbed in a taxi
while returning from a fan-tan joint in
Little Bourke. Six weeks later the
accused destroyed himself at Pentridge. A
second 13 came into the record when the
third engineer, Harry Davidson, collapsed
13 days later and died in a, cafe. The
Chinese crew refused to sail unless the
spirits of the dead men were confined to
their cabins, so the doors were locked.
The loss to the British Ministry of War
Transport, which owns the vessel, is in
the region of £120,000.
* * * 4!
“Breakaway”: There is no doubt about
the lucidity of Yankee slanguage (B.
16/4/’47). My squadron used to get an
occasional defensive patrol job over our
area in the Burma show. One day the
flight-commander when out noticed a
Yank, Mitchell bomber flying over a for-
ward area in contempt of the operational
corridor and required height. He swung
his Spitfire over in a curve of pur-
suit, intending to take the intruder’s
number and “book” him. To his
chagrined surprise the Yank rear
gunner cut loose at him and he went
down . ingloriously. That evening the
American boy called at the hospital to
offer apologies. “Oh, that’s 0.k.,” the pilot
replied. “I suppose you were practising
deflection aiming and forgot you had
your guns switched on?” “Hell, no,”
earnestly insisted the contrite Yank—
“that was hot lead I was throwing at
you! ”
* * * %
“Hackshaw”; The biggest stamp deal in
Australian history was concluded the
other day when H. C. Tucker, a Mel-
bourne philatelist, paid over £6OOO for
the J. S. McNeill collection, which con-
tains some of the rarest Australian
stamps. The transaction was considered
so important that an expert from Devon
was brought out to conduct negotiations.
The prize specimen in the collection
is a set of four fivepenny Commonwealth
perforated “0.5.” bearing the printer’s
imprint and believed to be worth at least
£lOOO. As a work of art it is on the
aesthetic level of a gas bill and as a his-
toric document it isn’t in the race with
a totalisator ticket,
“Postie”; Personally I’ve “had” this
postmarking of stamps for philatelists (B.
30/4/’47); they don’t know what they
want. The nice old gent, had been bring-
ing letters and parcels to the registration
counter for months, each decorated with
an array of fancy stamps. On the first
occasion I “wanged” on the postmark and
he nearly burst into tears. He wanted a
“light postmark.” After that he’d
teeter about on his toes, murmuring
“Gently, gently!” while I applied the
date stamp as delicately as a butterfly
landing on a flower. I got to like the old
boy. On the day the Mitchell stamps
were issued his daughter brought a bundle
of letters to be handed to me personally.
Dad, she explained, was in bed with a
chill. The way I postmarked those letters
was masterly—each stamp had just a
touch of ink on it and no more. Was
he pleased? Not on your life! He’s the
bloke who wrote to the newspapers com-
plaining that all his “first-day covers”
were ruined because some imbecile post-
marked them so carelessly that the vital
date was illegible.
“Hist”: Australia has certainly neg-
lected to honor navigators on its post-
age stamps (B. 7/ 5/ ’47), but one at least
has been recognised by the country of his
birth. France issued in 1942 (a year late)
a stamp commemorating the bicentenary
of La Perouse. It depicts the head of the
navigator against the background of a
globe on which the outline of Australia is
predominant. On each side are ships of
the period in full sail. In the lower right-
hand corner are recorded the places and
dates of his birth and death —“Albi
1741. Vanikoro 1788.” Incidentally,
another French stamp issued in 1944 de-
picts the cathedral in his birth town, Albi.
* * * *
“Frank /Mauri”: The frequent searches
of our pitiful p.-0.-w. kits by the Nips
gave us plenty of insight into their
twisted mentalities. We always knew
when a search was to be made: there
was a muster of all guards or the ap-
pearance of the Kempei Tai. The infre-
quent rest days were favorite search days
—work on the railroad would have been
held up on other days. Not much method
was displayed. In one hut every piece
of paper, even censored letters and
photos, would be confiscated ; in another
any piece of metal might be seized. The
early warning allowed time to hide valu-
ables, but we suffered from acts of stupid
vandalism. On one occasion a reel of
cotton, invaluable to us, was cut so that
the thread fell off in two-inch lengths.
Confiscated gear was often dumped on
the camp rubbish heap—to be salvaged
later by the hygiene nien.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”; Driving to their
office by car after having picked up the
firm’s payroll from the bank, two Bris-
bane clerks were at first mystified by and
then resentful of the yells and gesticula-
tions of passing motorists. Interpreting
these actions as bad road manners, the
clerks were quite elated at the ribaldry of
their own replies until, on leaving the car
at the office, the senior custodian of the
cash tripped over the bag of shekels. It
had been left on the running-board of
the car and had ridden thereon through
the city’s busiest traffic.
* * * 7f
“F. 0.0.”; Hobart’s recent elephant
story may be matched with that of a billy-
goat which made a name for itself in
Darwin. Like Coward’s mad dogs of
Englishmen, it went out in the noonday
sun to browse on the flowers in the
garden in front of the Commonwealth
Bank. Interpreting the abuse hurled at it
as an invitation, the goat then walked
into the bank and refused to leave. The
combined efforts of the bank staff to
eject the animal were fruitless, and it had
a whale of a time leaping about behind
the counter. Two police constables and
a sergeant were summoned, and their
efforts with a lasso among the office
furniture added to the gaiety of both goat
and spectators—so much so that the
manager at length closed the public door
and suspended business while the hunt
was organised in earnest. Driven into
the staff quarters, the goat finally
executed a retreat by leaping a 15ft. drop
into the backyard, where it was cornered
and captured. Amid cheers the police
then hauled it into the Black Maria and
carted it off to Fanny Bay jail, from
which, following the example of many
prisoners before it, it speedily escaped.
If it hasn’t been christened “Ned Kelly”
by now it has at least earned the title.
* * * *
“Orion”: When Billy Hughes intimated
that he would present a gold cup for
competition among old Diggers of the
Warwick (Q.) Golf Club, the beneficiaries
decided to help immortalise his association
with their town with a trophy designed
as an egg. There are some things, however,
which are best broken gently to Mr.
Hughes, especially eggs in Warwick. So
Mr. Fadden, as local M.P., acted at medi-
ator, and to the satisfaction of all con-
cerned. The president of the club was
notified that Mr. Hughes had “humor-
ously” acquiesced. There will now be two
permanent memorials of a famous inci-
dent in the conscription campaign of the
First World War. The other, of course,
was the institution of Commonwealth
police officers outside Commonwealth
territories, the Warwick egg, in Anstey’s
quip, having “hatched out the Common-
wealth police.”
* * * *
“D.M.E.”: Remarking that the absence
of bookmakers madfe the place look “half-
naked,” my Australian friend was not
impressed with horse-racing in New
Zealand. And after studying Rule 3 (d),
which insists that (among others) “persons
who habitually consort with thieves, idle
and disorderly persons, rogues and vaga-
bonds,” are not admitted, he came back
with, “Well, who the hell goes to the races
over here?”
ON THE MAKE.
“‘Reforms’ proposed at Canberra: A rise in
members’ salaries to £l5OO, further travelling
privileges, including free air transport, a pensions
scheme and a substantial increase in membership of
botli Houses.”
They want, and won’t be backward in de-
manding,
A further jump in salaries because
They hold a thou, too little for the standing
And high prestige of those who frame our
laws. s
They seek more adequate remuneration
Or, in colloquial phrase, a bit more tin,
For the elected spokesmen of the nation—
And more to share therein.
They’re underpaid, what with extraneous exes.
And subs, to clubs, you’ve often heard them
tell;
And now, it seems, what obviously vexes
As much, they’re sorely overworked as well.
They need, to mitigate the heavy burden
Of guidance to their country’s forward steps,
More blokes to draw the Senatorial guerdon
And quite a lot more Reps.
t
They’re out for extra pay and privileges
And various other Parliamentary perks
That found no place in pre-election pledges
Concerning broader legislative works.
Their claim is heard for generous adjustings
Of screws to what their patent worth
denotes—
A point that’s never hinted at on hustings
For fear of losing votes.
More travel on the nod they need, and pensions
For coves who’re relegated to the shelves;
The right to legalise all such extensions,
We’ve lived to learn, rests solely with them-
selves.
They crave more cash to stoke their vocal
boilers,
More of the stuff that makes the mare to go,
And vrait to welcome other sturdy toilers
With whom to share the dough. _
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: Fair weather cometh out of
the north, and strange things happen
in Sydney meteorologically; but none
so strange as on May 7. On May 8 the
elderly “dame” who runs the column of
my morning daily waxed warmly poetical.
Entering the city late on the previous
afternoon “she” beheld a full moon
“riding in a sky tinted with gold-red
fleeces of cloud.” The setting sun “picked
out windows with a blood-red reflection
and I thought—a beautiful city, ‘luminous
and serene.’ ” Then the train took a
dive underground and “back in the city
only the moon remained serene.” A
beautiful thought, lady. The fiery orb
going to his nap in the lap of Thetis, and
his pale, burnt-out sister already arisen
and using her romantic glow for the en-
tanglement of the amorous swain. But
alas! Poesy is too often muscled aside
by the brutal shoulder of mundane
statistics. In the meteorological data, as
quoted by the columnist’s own paper on
May 7, the sun was due to set that day
at 5.09 p.m. and the moon to rise at
6.28 p.m.
» * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The crowd in the
railway carriage glared at the aggressively
healthy type who sat at the open window
and gloried in the wintry blast. He was
completely self-assured and openly con-
temptuous of the little chap sitting oppo-
site him, who, rugged to the ears in a
heavy overcoat and scarf, had his window
closed and was huddled deep into the
corner. Actuated, perhaps, by the almost
tangible hostility of the other passengers,
the fresh-air fiend leaned forward and
lowered the middle window. In silence
the little bloke stood up and raised it.
The other promptly lowered it again.
“Listen, mate,” he said, “when I put a
window down it stays down.” The little
chap stood up again. “I’ve got the ’flu,
rheumatism and sciatica,” he said with
obvious sincerity, “and I’m going in to
Perth to have a tooth out. Anything you
can do to me won’t alter my condition
very much.” Then he raised the window
again. It stayed that way.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: An even more unusual
item in Army Disposals auctions (B.
23/4/’47) recently appeared in a list in
Melbourne in the shape of three State
coaches. One was the coach built by
Hooper, of London, to accommodate
the King and Queen and the Duke of
Windsor on their several visits to Aus-
tralia. The resplendent vehicle went for
£260 to William Brown, *of S.A., and will
find its way into the Adelaide Museum.
Two landaus of less pompous appearance
used to carry State Governors when they
went to open Parliament. One was
bought by Jack Phillips, who will donate
it to the Port Arthur Museum in the
Apple Island. The second will have a
more romantic future. It was bought by
a former hire-car proprietor who sees
possibilities in it for brides who want to
do something more unusual than merely
getting married.
* * * *
“2315”: One time I was really scared
on Gallipoli. I was in a dugout where I
watched a damn’ fool reading and smok-
ing a pipe, flaring matches and tossing
them in every direction, with a jam-tin
bomb, fuze protruding six inches from
the candle, stuck on an ammunition case
a foot from his head. After I had
waited, tense, hands on the edge of the
bunk, ready for a spring to safety should
the fuze start to fizz, for what seemed like
an hour, he calmly applied the candle
flame to the fuze of the bomb and went
on reading. The jam-tin had been dis-
embowelled and filled with fat and a
wick, making a f.a.q. lamp to supple-
ment the weak efforts of the home-made
candle. A few days later we heard that
a couple of Indian muleteers had seen
the trick, taken possession of an empty
dugout near the beach, lit one of these
fat lamps and woke up on the hospital
ship. The jam-tin they picked had not
been disembowelled.
* * * *
“Peddo”: The lesson told how once
Dante, on hearing a blacksmith mis-
quote him, wrathfully entered the
smithy and began “flinging the black-
smith’s tools about the place.” I called
on Tiger to parse “blacksmith’s”. He
“Hey, smarty, why didn't you ring your bell?”
didn’t know whether the word was
singular or plural. After much head-
scratching, he decided on singular. On
being asked why, he said, “Well, sir, if
Ihere’d been more than one blacksmith
in the place, Dante wouldn’t ’a’ been
game to go in.”
* * * *
“Koax’s” memory of “The Breaker”:
At the time of the Morant affair I was a
very junior officer in the British Army attached
to the staff at H.Q., Pretoria. The Bushveldt
Carbineers were a tough mob, but no worse
than the Boers they were supposed to “pacify”;
vengeful and bitter Dutch from all over South
Africa. There was a floating population of
hardy spirits and criminal types who went out
for varying periods in hope of adventure and
loot and rapine—mostly the last two. Both
sides lived on the country and that did not
increase their popularity with the sparse popu-
lation of Dutch and Kaffirs.
These doughty antagonists recognised no
rules. Stories of their supposed doings
drifted in from the bushveldt and caused no
little excitement in Pretoria and Army circles
generally. Naturally the occasional B.V.C.
officer who drifted into the Officers’ Club at
Pretoria was viewed with alarm by the old
guard, but we juniors were always ready to buy
drinks in return for stories with plenty of Icfcal
color. Morant was a frequent enough visitor
to be known by name and sight to quite a
lot of us, so that when the news of his arrest
came through we were all intensely interested.
This is the story as we heard it. Morant’s
squadron leader and greatest friend was shot
from a white-flagged farmhouse. A dozen
“Let's swap keepsakes—you give me your diamond
pin and I'll give you a glove”
Boers were eventually rounded up in or near
this farm, and Morant swore to make an ex-
ample of them. Captors and prisoners bivouacked
for the night at a place only 100 yards from
the main Pietersburg-Tuli road, about 11 miles
SSf
a passing missionary, who turned off the road
to see what it was about. He apparently
realised the position before he was noticed,
because his mules were already turned and
cantering before someone shouted “Don’t let
them get away.” Shots were fired and the
missionary was killed, but the galloping mules
took cart and body into Pietersburg. Inter-
national complications ensued —the missionary
was a German. It would be hard to convey
the secrecy that surrounded not so much the
court-martial as the preparation of the case
and all the details —the guarding of witnesses
and the threats of punishment if any talking
was done.
When he had signed the death warrant
Kitchener got on his train and disappeared
from staff ken for four days. One day was spent
by several high officers in a feverish endeavor
to find and persuade the C.-in-C. to reprieve
Morant and Handcock. But the German
Emperor had to be appeased. I remember
meeting the O.C. firing squad in the afternoon
(Mitford of the Gordons) and being shown
Morant’s cigarette case —which he had given
to Mitford after lighting a last cigarette. “The
Breaker” died game, a fag in his mouth.
“Five by Two”; Blade razors (B.
23/4/’47)? When my dad went to
Kruger’s war he was issued with one —
a massive affair weighing about a pound,
with an inch-wide blade and no new-
fangled nonsense about hollow grinding.
As a kid I remember his using the “big
’un” week about with another razor.
When my elder brother started shaving
he was given this razor and shown how
to use and care for it. The original owner
took it off to Wilhelm’s war and my
brother bore it to the last stoush. Re-
cently he asked me to carry it to a barber
cobber for resetting. He was still using
it, but he had seen his 15-year-old son
gazing hard at his face in a mirror and
he reckoned it was only right to hand it
on in as good condition as received.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; The strangest comment on
the recent Felton Bequest purchases (B.
7/5/’47) was made by the critic of a
leading daily. He remarked that the
Miss John portrait was worthless, but as
the trustees had only paid £593, for the
thing it didn’t matter. This is a bit
of a joke, considering that there are
dozens of local artists who could do
better, and who would be very pleased
if the Felton paid them even 50 quid for
a picture.
* * * *
“Minto”: Murphy, my next - door
neighbo r would be hard-pressed to ex-
Plain what child mean, but
he knows his children well nough.
Whenever Jimmie receives a piesent
Jeannie gets one, too. Calling the two
together he hands a massive box con-
P . L • , i Mn nip anrl
taming Jimmie s present to Jeannie, and
the decorative parcel, intended tor
Jeannie, to Jimmie. Before the string is
off, each is yelling for the other’s gift.
With the sweetest of smiles old Murph.
concedes their wishes and contentment is
assured for the day.
* * * *
“W.J.D.”: For “Tassy’s” information
(B. 7/5/’47), a “boilermaker” is whisky
with a “chaser” —beer. I awoke one morn-
ing after a solid reunion to realise how
the name “boilermaker” originated—there
were certainly at least five skilled trades-
men riveting plates on various parts of
my cranium.
«,* * *
“Chester”: “Zake” pointed out (B.
30/ 4/ ’47) that under the accepted duel-
ling code the person challenged has the
choice of weapons. I recall the tale of
a traveller challenged by a gentleman
whose skill with pistol and sword was
famous. Offered the choice of weapons,
he selected cannons at ten paces and
accepted the apologies of the challenger,
who suddenly had urgent business else-
where. More recently a leading American
editor was landed in the same predica-
ment after a particularly frank criticism
of a visiting French opera tenor. He
stipulated custard pies at two paces.
* * * *
“Black Swan”: When “Col M.” (B.
23/4/’47) mentions the electric-light bulb
as the brain child of Edison, he shows
a little more knowledge than the flapper-
from-Oshkosh who thought that it was
invented by Spencer Tracy. The incan-
descent carbon-filament-light globe was
invented by the British physicist Sir
Joseph Wilson Swan in 1860, 20 years
earlier than Edison. Among other things,
Swan invented many electrical instru-
ments, the “rapid” dry plate and bromide
photographic printing paper, making
modern photography possible.
* * * *
“Uramao”: With fine disregard of
food rationing the Maori had a swell time
at the opening of a Ratana church at
Mangamuka, near Whangarei, N. 1., when
Prime Minister Fraser graced the pro-
ceedings. The menu included 21 pigs, 200
fowls, 25 head of cattle, 10 tons of
kumeras and potatoes, 400 loaves, 50
cases of fruit and bottled home-made
preserves, 10 bags of sugar, eight tons of
butter and tons of pumpkins and marrows.
The celebrations lasted three days, there
were 1500 people and the cost was £3OOO.
By korry, she was te great feed!
* * * *
“Viz”: It had to happen with all these
Gallup Polls and “audience reaction sur-
veys.” A, “New Entertainment Work-
shop” has been set up on a New Jersey
(U.S.A.) farm with a team of writers, all
comfortably housed and fed at regular
intervals, hammering out plays, film
scripts, novels and radio programmes ac-
cording to “scientifically researched
formulas,” all of guaranteed “box-office
potential.” According to Albert E. Sind-
linger, whose Gallup-Poll experience led
him to start the scheme, writers save up
to 75 per cent, of writing time, because at
each puzzling turn of the plot they can
obtain guidance by turning up the re-
sults of public-opinion polls and surveys.
The ultimate idea is to place a “new”
seal on books, pictures and plays which
survive a complicated pre-testing process,
thus giving the bookbuyer or theatregoer
a guarantee of satisfaction.
* * * •
“Balgowlah”: Back in depression years
a weekly ran a column of free for
the unemployed. One press-day the chap
in charge of the service needed a half-
inch to fill the column, and clipped an
advt. from the “Positions Wanted”
columns of one of the Great Dailies. Its
publication in the weekly resulted in the
advertiser landing a job as a plantation
manager in the Solomons. His advt. in
the daily didn’t net him a single reply.
Neither the advertiser nor his employer
was a reader of the weekly; the latter
merely happened to pick it up while wait-
ing for a dental appointment. Both be-
came subscribers, and are still regulars.
* * * *
“Weff”: For deceptive memories I’ll
back the blokes who drift into newspaper
offices in search of a story, poem or
article they have read in the past. Apart
from the fact that the majority cannot
recall the author and title of the contri-
bution and often only have a hazy idea
as to what it was about, they are gener-
ally all at sea so far as the date of pub-
lication is concerned, I once dug up a
Lawson poem in a 1895 Bulletin file
which a caller insisted appeared in 1913,
and a story, claimed to have appeared
about' the time of the Sudan campaign,
dealt with a Boer War incident, and was
published about the dawn of this century.
One fellow pestered me for weeks for the
lines of a verse which he asserted appeared
in The Bulletin. By a fluke I located it
in the columns of a rival journal, long
defunct. Even when shown the poem in
the files of the other paper he behaved as
if I was putting something over him.
ON THE ROCKET RANGE.
“Dpsire to protect the aborigines from possible
dangers is alleged as the main .reason for the
Communist attempt to impose a black ban on the
Socket Range.”
The world is full of sufferers
For whom our timely help is sought,
Victims of fortune’s whips and spurs,
In snares beyond foreseeing caught.
And here are some, it seems, we ought
To save from perils new and strange.
Come brother, let us spare a thought
For abos. on the Rocket Range.
For centuries, beyond the bounds
Of settled lands, a carefree crew,
They’ve roamed their sterile hunting grounds
And chased the nimble kangaroo,
Aloof, remote from public view,
Like dwellers in some moated grange,
Quite unmolested hitherto,
The abos. on the Rocket Range.
How will they sleep in peace o’ nights,
It’s asked, these myalls desert-bred,
With monster, man-made meteorites
Cleaving the heavens overhead?
What omens grim, what portents dread
They’ll see, with what forebodings strange
And tremors they’ll be visited,
The abos. on the Rocket Range!
Still, when they come to understand
And firmly grasp no harm is meant
Or wrought to Never-Neverland
By this particular event,
There’s many a roving resident
May find therein a welcome change
With nothing in it to resent.
Life can’t be rich in incident
For abos. on the Rocket Range.
N.S.W.
MIDPORD.


INTERESTING BOOKS
CRUSTS AND CRUSADES. Tales of Bygone Days. By The Right Hon.
W. M. Hughes, C.H., K.C., M.P.
Ranging In time from his arrival in Australia during the ’eighties to his Prime
Ministership during and after the first World War, these stories give' spotlight
pictures of Mr. Hughes’s astounding career, pictures that also illuminate for us
the period through which he has passed. Mr. Hughes is a natural storyteller,
•with a point that gives to his reminiscences all the charm of fiction and all the
conviction of fact. Bs. 6d. (post. 4d.).
FLYING FOX AND DRIFTING SAND. The Adventures of a Biologist in
Australia. By Francis Ratcliffe. With an Introduction by Julian Huxley.
Although Mr. Ratcliffe is a biologist, and although his Australian vagabondage
was strictly professional, Flying Fox and Drifting Sand is far from being a
scientific journal or a piece of popular natural history. Mr. Ratcliffe’s first
task was to study the giant fruit-eating bats, known as flying foxes, which are
a pest in the orchards and plantations of the eastern coastal belt. Later he
covered thousands of miles in the “kingdom of dust,” as he calls it, and found
beauty as well as desolation in this country where 100 square miles represents
a small holding. He tells of sandhills and the Stony Desert, of lonely mail
routes and flooded rivers, of pelicans and pink cockatoos, and of humorous,
kindly and courageous people.
With half-tone illustrations. 12s. 6d. (post. 6d.).
Available at all Booksellers.
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney MA 0511.
I ' - O ' s O I :
J V *~S W r> "
'if ,*\
**s*fS
■
r/y/
'■
„
iiliiwiiPi
m^m
<i *•s■
■
‘
_ ♦ ' '
& CO. PT
Sunshine and Sweetness
mmmmM
m
m
Miss Valmai Hoy of Bondi, Sydney, helps with fruit picking at Mr.
E. V. Jackson’s orchard at Castle Hill. Marmalade and sweet orange
jam are made from oranges like these, Orchardists depend largely
on the jam-making and fruit-canning industry for their livelihood.
m
m
m.
m
y
Jam-makers and fruit canners organise their fruit processing so that
their factories are in operation most of the year. Tens of thousands
of Australians earn their living from this busy industry.
To help sell Australian fruit pro-
ducts, which contain a high propor-
tion of sugar, the sugar industry pays
out a large annual sum to the fruit
industry. The amount paid varies
from £400,000 (in 1941) to £216,000
(1946). This money is used to assist
the fruit growers as well as jam-
makers and fruit canners.
There is a current belief that the
Australian sugar industry receives
money in the form of a bounty, but
this is an error. Actually, the sugar
industry pays out money to help
other industries.
As well as refining sugar for
Australian consumers, the C.S.R.
CANNED
FRUIT
PACKED IN SYRUP CONTAINING
55%
SUGAR
JAM
i is
60%
SUGAR
Company is a sugar miller (C.S.R. operates 7 of the 35
sugar mills in Australia) and shares in the cost of the pay-
ment to the fruit industry.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
THE SERVICE MAN
Defence—and Bombs.
“Ek Dum”: Popular conceptions are
very much at sea when they are applied
to modern methods of war based upon
the invention of the atom bomb.
Belief tends to a very simple picture of
what would happen here in time of war
under the new conditions. The picture
has various ingredients according to the
horsepower of its creator’s imaginative-
ness.
Sometimes it leans to a neat vignette of
a refugee with whiskers and a fibre suit-
case who lands, leaves without his case
and, when far out to sea, smiles as he
hears that Sydney has become another
Hiroshima. Sometimes the vision runs
to a silent aircraft gliding over the sleep-
ing city to unleash the deadly blast.
This kind of thinking neglects the sur-
rounding circumstances, and the mighty
efforts necessary to produce not only the
lethal missiles but the organisation to
baffle the defenders, with (if they are
modernly equipped) their increasingly
accurate and increasingly long-armed
radar and their increasingly deadly gunfire,
“And see if you can dig up someone who can sail this damned catamaran !"
which can almost in a split-second or less
pick up something relatively, comparable
to a pin in the air and destroy it. There
also need to be taken into account the
influences of fortress protection and the
possibilities of defence by a people pre-
pared for universal action, and above all
the chastening considerations which make
an enemy hesitate before he uses such
weapons as those which recently have
been brought into being.
Total Ruin
The last point is the first to be con-
sidered. An excellent way in which to
consider it is in relation to Japan. Jap-
anese cities, as the N.S.W. Governor,
Lieut.-General Northcott, told an audi-
ehce some time ago, having first-hand
evidence, were almost entirely destroyed
by American bombing, which was carried
out with the greatest squadrons of air-
craft ever seen, over the longest distances
on record and from the greatest aero-
dromes that man had conceived.
But it was not indiscriminate bombing.
It caused discomfort; it caused the
wreckage of war potential; but it was
strictly selective. If the Allies had de-
cided to destroy the Japanese people
wholly, to leave them without food or
food resources, they could have done it.
They could have shattered their rural
electric power, broken up their water
systems, made agriculture almost impos-
sible. The Allies were masters of the
situation.
But their targets were carefully picked
out and pin-pointed. It is literal fact
that in cities like Yokohama almost every
building, wharf, store or other facility
which the Allies knew would be needed
for occupation purposes was preserved
intact. Preservation called for the
greatest care and accuracy, in view of
the fact that bombing was done from
very great heights. The thing was carried
out with such accurate discrimination
that, while German and Italian buildings
in Tokyo were reduced to rubble, Allied
buildings were saved, just as were the
port facilities of several great ports which
otherwise were tangled masses of iron.
Bomb Not Selective
Using such weapons as the atom bomb,
this kind of discrimination is not possible.
Where the bomb falls, for miles round
there is a desert. The intensity of blast
is comparatively small beside really heavy
demolition bombing with normal ex-
plosive. But heat shrivels up vegetation,
kills everything within a certain radius,
pollutes the water supply, wounds all
animal life within a far greater radius,
burns up every leaf, twists every piece
of iron it reaches and is resisted only by
certain types of metal wall and heavy
concrete or a reasonable depth of earth
and rock. The bombed city becomes an-
other Edom.
If an atom bomb were dropped within
the dead centre of Sydney—though pos-
sibly hills would act as barriers to wall
off some of the effect, as was apparently
the case in Nagasaki—the city centre
would a few seconds later be a dead mass
of steel and concrete. Most of the popu-
lation would be dead, wounded or in-
fected. All the trees would be stripped
of their leaves. The Botanical Gardens
and the Domain would be a ghost forest
of charred limbs. All the grass from
Randwick to the Quay, from Stanmore
to King’s Cross, and perhaps across the
water on the Harbor fringes, would be
dead. Most of the street surfaces would
be radioactive and remain radioactive
for long to come. All wharf equipment
which was not concrete or steel would
be destroyed.
But in the result the harbor would be
a dead loss to the enemy. He-could not
usfe it. Communications would be non
est, city industries would be completely
out of existence. All the foe could ex-
pect to gain would be sterile dominion
over a city in which he could not live,
and whose back country, deprived of
markets and communications, the sources
of machinery, fertilisers, clothing, every-
thing which makes life not only sweet but
actually possible, would be utterly with-
out uses to a conqueror, who certainly
would not attack any land with a view
to gaining a corpse.
It all seems to suggest that, of sheer
necessity, should it ever come to attack
from outside with modern weapons, the
use of atom weapons may be limited.
Rockets, supersonic bombs, aircraft in
the higher altitudes and speed groups,
even poison gas and bacteria might be an
enemy’s measure, because all- these could
be limited in the range of their effects.
But there are certain limits to the use
of atomic weapons, provided always —
and this is a point which has not yet been
discussed at all in any essay on the sub-
ject the writer has seen —control of the
effect and radius of the bomb blast is not
attained. If the atom bomb can be made
a selective weapon, then it becomes a cat
of another color. But at present, since
its explosive potentials seem to depend
on accretion to a certain mass, control is
not possible.
The Effects on Strategy and Tactics
It is this lack of selectiveness which
seems to indicate the first line of thought
on defence against attack by an enemy
with atom weapons. It must affect his


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WINIFRED BERRY also known as GIFFORD
late of Sydney in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN GIFFORD has pursuant
to Part 111 of the Matrimonial Causes Act (Federal)
1945 filed a Petition No. 4096 of 1946 for Divorce
from MAXWELL VERNON GIFFORD on the ground
of his adultery with you You may apply to the
Court to be allowed to defend A copy of the
petition may be obtained without charge from WIL-
LIAM CHARLES MOSELEY, Solicitor, 51 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
They took the risk
On a winter’s day In 1903, along a
lonely stretch of the Carolina shore,
two brothers, Orville and Wilbur
Wright, were about to demonstrate
that a powered heavler-than-air
“flying machine” would actually fly.
That they were successful is now
history. But the risk they took in
this epic flight has not diminished
with the passing years. To-day risks
of a far greater magnitude are
accepted and underwritten as ordinary
business routine by the world’s most
famous Insurance Organisation—
To-day, after 250 years of continuous service, “Lloyd’s”
is probably the most prominent single name in the field
of international commerce.
The wealth of experience that it has accumulated oven the
years in all branches of insurance is available to you, the
private citizen, through the oldest and largest Lloyd’s
Brokers in the Southern Hemisphere— „
EDWARD LIIMLEY iSONS PTY LTD
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Sydney: 263 George Street and 9-11 Martin Place. Newcastle: 33 Watt
Street. Melbourne: 287 Collins Street. Adelaide: T. & G. Building.
Brisbane: A.M.P. Building. Perth: 156 St. George’s Terrace, hobart;
82 Collins Street. Also Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin,
NEW ZEALAND, and LONDON, NEW YORK, MONTREAL, PARIS, COLOMBO
and Singapore. EL.ts.ts
Qccaszon /or
m
To celebrate such an occasion
as this, nothing could be
better than a bottle of Tintara
Amontillado Sherry. And as
an appetizer, before each
meal, Amontillado Sherry
adds flavour to every dish.
MEET THE CHAMPIONS
ADELAIDE WINE SHOW—
Champion Prizes Florfino
Sherry; Old Castle Riesling; Fine
Old Liqueur Port.
SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW
Champion Prize Old Liqueur
Port. First and Second Prize —
Old Brandy. First Prizes — Vint-
age Port; Export Port; Export
Muscatel; Fine Old Liqueur Port.
\~
I
TH 17
line of approach if he knows that in
destroying the munition potential of a
country he is also destroying its power
to keep alive, when it and its people
become his responsibility and when he
hopes to reap the benefit of its re-
sources.
All tjais calls for the most carefully-
thought-out strategy in relation to the
placing of war industries and defences.
In certain circumstances it might be not
too paradoxical to suggest that the safest
place for the heart of defence and muni-
tion production in a modern war in Aus-
tralia would be in the midst of the
greatest cities, in half a dozen duplicated
and self-contained supply units, which the
enemy could not wipe out without also
utterly wiping out everything which
makes occupation and conquest produc-
tive to an enemy.
The Call on Manpower
It poses a prickly problem in a con-
tinent like ours. About only one thing
can be taken for granted. Any of the
numerous strategic and tactical solutions
of supply involves the certainty that
whatever man- and woman-power was
needed in the last war will be needed
three times over in the next for military
industrial purposes; and that whatever
were the averages of technical skill and
efficiency in the last phases of the last
war they will have to be improved a
hundredfold even at the beginning of the
next.
Moreover, whatever organisation was
needed for civil defence by any country
under attack in the last war —and there
was none which was more than partially
successful against a superior air force —
it will have to be multiplied and intensi-
fied and suited to the nature of the
attack, which will undoubtedly be from
the air and diversified.
The increased range of .weapons
which will continue to increase beyond
predictability—will enable an enemy in
five years not merely to strike from
greater distances but at more objectives.
When the new techniques have been
brought to their natural conclusions a
foe established in New Zealand or Rabaul
would have virtually the whole of the
populated east of Australia under fire
without setting foot on Australian soil.
His heavy bombers could strike and re-
turn within the hours of darkness, which,
in any case, owing to the high altitude of
operation and the development of radar,
have ceased to matter much.
The kind of attack which can be con-
templated involves the following proba-
bilities, if the attacker is modern in his
method:
(1) The immolation by atom bomb of
fairly large and not strategically vital towns
which can be ruined without industrial loss
to the enemy if he wins; this in order to
strike panic into the hearts of the whole
country and set everybody asking who will
be the next. One day it might be Goul-
burn, the next Kalgoorlie, the next
Bendigo; then a frightening interval
followed by Charters Towers and Mt.
Barker (S.A.) on successive days. The
effect on the national morale needs no
painting. And it needs no find-the-ball
luck to nominate one of the first towns
likely to disappear: Canberra.
(2) Selective attacks on the great air
junctions with heavy bombs and rockets.
(3) Rocket-plane blasts which would put
the railways out of existence and disorganise
tactical road traffic.
(4) Selective heavy bombing of war in-
dustries similar to that of the last war,
diversified with fire bombing (of which the
technique is in its infancy), in those typical
Australian towns in which almost every
house is inflammable.
(5) Large-scale dropping of heavily-armed
parachute troops spread in small bands
over the whole country to disorganise it.
When it is remembered that in the Burmese
war the British operated along lines of
communication 400 miles long across im-
passable mountains, almost entirely by air,
and moved divisions 1000 miles in three
days, complete with their armament, the
possibilities are evident.
Even if the enemy who attempts to in-
vade us has only half a dozen squadrons
of attack aircraft, a dozen atom bombs
and three or four divisions of airborne
troops, an invasion war for Australia
would be an all-out affair in which every
man, woman and child in the 300-mile-
wide coastal belts might feel the impact
of a bullet or a blast within 20 minutes of
its outbreak. It would be total war, using
tot3l manpower from the defenders’ view-
point. And it would be futile war for us
unless there is universal training, having
regard to the smallness of the Australian
population.
Commos and the Rocket.
‘Ek Bum”: The howl of the Building
Workers’ Industrial Union secretary and
others of his kind that they will declare
“black” the rocket range at Mt. Eba in
order to protect the poor aborigines—
none of whom has been seen at 60,000
feet, the altitude at which bombs will
travel while passing over even the most
sparsely-populated area —is merely an
empty noise.
The chance of the kind of “workers”
who declare defence measures “black” of
seeing Mt. Eba or anything connected
with it is as remote as the average syco-
phantic Australian Commo leader’s
chance of eating from one of Comrade
Stalin’s pure gold plates or riding in that
Oriental potentate’s Rolls Royce. The
union leaders who are involved know it.
Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt know it. They
know, too, that for once they are in-
volved in something in which the Com-
munist party cannot force their hands,
since the ultimate say lies with the
British in military control of the project,
who are not answerable to the Australian
“Government.” Both Ministers, there-
fore, can take a “strong stand” without
doing damage to anybody.
The whole business is a propaganda
stunt by the Communists. It has given
the party a chance to stir up humani-
tarians, who, knowing nothing of Central
Australia, picture it as a country teem-
ing with a happy population (actually the
discovery of an'aborigine in the Mt. Eba
target area is an event) which will pre-
sently spend half its life dodging missiles
skimming along about shoulder-high at
3000 miles an hour and finding atom
bombs at odd moments in their laps.
It has provided noisy comrades with
a subject on which to hang some more
propaganda on the theme that Britain
and the United States are brutal Im-
perialist Powers plotting the ruin of the
worker and the innocent Soviet Union,
on which they intend to make a vile
aggressive war out of hatred of Com-
munism. And it has enabled them to
tie the editorial staff of a Great Daily
in knots trying to untangle the situation
arising from the fact that (a) leading
members of the Central Committee of
the Communist party have shouted their
determination to do everything in their
power to wreck the country’s defensive
measures; (b) the ,same Central Com-
mittee has issued a statement that it is
all for the defence of Australia,
Editors should not be worried about
such minor complications as these. A
careful reading of the Central Commit-
tee’s assurances will show that, as usual,
they don’t mean what they first appear
to mean. Such paradoxes arise in Com-
munist relationships almost every day.
An adjournment motion was presented
in the House to secure discussion of the
Mt. Eba matter. Significant was the
speech by Dr. Evatt, that “leader of the
small nations,” who said that the opposi-
tion to Mt. Eba was in the interests, if
not at the instigation, of a foreign
Power, the Communist thesis —false —be-
ing that Britain, Australia and the United
States were preparing for war against
Russia.
Dr. Evatt nevertheless insisted that the
Communists must have freedom of
speech. The right of Communists to
express their opinions, he declared,
was the very essence of democracy, and
a public inquiry would be “prejudicial
to investigation work and to the security
of Australia.” Nineteenth-century liber-
alism this, but also the Communist party
line! When you have the agents of a
foreign enemy in your midst, openly
aiming and working for revolution, sabo-
taging industry and particularly defence
industry, communicating with hostile
elements in enemy territory during war-
time—as Communists probably did dur-
ing World War II —it would not be
“democratic” to do anything to interfere
with their plans.
And for Heaven’s sake, don’t hold a
public inquiry like those in Canada and
the United States! A public inquiry
would bring Communist plans to light,
force traitorous enemies to show their
hands and save tens of thousands of
Australians from becoming or remaining
their accomplices and tools; but in Dr.
Evatt’s —and the Communist party’s —
eyes such an inquiry would be “undemo-
cratic.” The proper thing to do is to
pick out some of those who have gone
so far that they have seen the inside of
jails—amazingly difficult of achievement
under the present regime—and appoint
persons like the convicted Mr. Rudkin to
positions of trust and confidence in the
C.S.I.R.’s departments dealing with vital
war secrets. Or put Communists in a
position, as was done during the war, to
learn the workings of the Military Cipher
Department and to educate or re-educate
young servicemen—triumphs of “demo-
cracy” as implemented by the present
“Government.”


WHEN IT'S AN
/ / / /
v VLiJasU /
/
MORE CARS ARE FITTED WITH EXIDE
THAN ANY OTHER BATTERY
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTYLTD., 44 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
•: ■ " "■ "" " ~~ Yi 9^17
PERSONAL ITEMD
“El V.”; The one Minister defeated in
the N.S.W. Caucus ballot was William
Fraser Dunn, veteran of the Cabinet and
Father of the House. Captain in the
first A.1.F., too, as befitted a man sprung
from hard-fighting races ; he is of Anglo-
Scottish ancestry, and his maternal grand-
father was at Waterloo. When I travelled
Britain with Dunn many years ago
as a fellow-member of an Australian
meat delegation he insisted on deviations
to see Beverley Minster, between York
and Hull, where his forbears had wor-
shipped. In Scotland he gave such an
exhibition of his knowledge of Scottish
lore that we clubbed together and bought
him the loudest tartan tie Edinburgh
could provide and a tin of shortbread.
He had the last word, however —the
shortbread, on being opened, revealed a
label saying that it had been made in
Hamburg for the troops. He was a hard-
working Minister who was in the habit,
when abroad, of receiving deputations
until 2 a.m., and though Caucus may
have chosen to overlook his services he
is not forgotten by Britons among whom
he moved. I occasionally have inquiries
from Britain from hardened Tories about
his health.
W. F. (“Billy”) Sheahan, one of the two
new N.$.W. Ministers, was educated at
the Convent School, Tumut, St. Pat.'s
College, Goulburn, and in the 17th Bat-
talion, First A.I.F. After the war he took
up law, graduated in 1930, was called to
the Bar and took an active interest in
politics. Defeated twice for Petersham,
he won Yass in 1941, was unopposed in
1944 and this time was one of the very
few country Laborites who had sizable
majorities—“more Sheahans voted for
me,” he explains with a grin. There
are many Sheahans in the electorate;
indeed, the Sheahans are known from
Tumut to Yass; the Jugiong Hotel,
Jugiong, with the grazing property, was
established by Billy’s father in 1844, after
Dad had retired from the mail run from
Yass to Albury. The requirements of a
flourishing law practice have not pre-
vented Billy’s spending a lot of time in the
constituency. An acquaintance arriving
with congratulations at his Lewisham
home, after his elevation and a trip to
the country, found him demonstrating
his energy by answering the ’phone, read-
ing telegrams and washing up.
Harold Brownlow (“Mick”) Martin,
who lowered the London-Capetown air
record by 10£ hours (B. 7/5/’47), was
serving on the R.A.F. Volunteer Reserve,
and was called up for duty 5> at the out-
break of the war. He landed a D.F.C.
in 1942 for his work as captain of an
outstandingly successful crew. A Bar
came a year later, and in May, 1943, when
“Mick” took part in the bombing of the
Mohne and Eder dams, he collected the
D.S.O. In 1944 for attacking a target
in Southern France after his aircraft had
been repeatedly hit and with one of his
crew dead and another wounded he
added a Bar to his D.S.O. Not a bad
collection, but before he was 27 he added
a second Bar to his D.F.C., making his
fifth decoration won during the war.
Colonel John McDonnell, who will
have the job of finding and buying old
and new masters in London for the Fel-
ton Bequest, is a Queenslander who has
had a diversified career in the art world.
Co-partner in a Sydney gallery with
Basil Burdett, who was killed in an
aeroplane smash in Singapore during the
war, he has been something of a painter,
has accumulated a large collection of
modern paintings, was a Comforts Fund
administrator in the M.E., and from that
went to Montgomery’s Fine Arts Com-
mission which followed in the wake of the
invading armies to assist in the preserva-
tion of historic buildings and recover
looted art works. Besides all this he was
on the staff of Government House in
Brisbane, is a bachelor with means and
a connoisseur of literature and music.
He will help Sir Kenneth Clarke and
Professor Schwabe, the Felton’s English
advisers, to spend some of the accumu-
lated £170,000.
Appointed to command 81 Wing
H.Q. R.A.A.F. in Japan, Group-Captain
John R. Perrin, D.F.C., who hails from
the Yarra, left Australia in 1940 with No.
3 (City of Sydney) Squadron under lan
McLachlan. During the Rommel pushes
he flew Gladiators and Gauntlets. Once
on a patrol over the desert he saw Ger-
man Stukas bombing Australian troops,
so he called up the formation to attack.
The order was apparently not understood,
as only one machine accompanied him in
the dive. His companion was shot down,
but Perrin accounted for a Stuka and a
Messerschmitt before a cannon shot in his
petrol tank wounded him and forced him
to crash-land. Staggering as he left the
burning plane he was strafed by the Huns,
but, zig-zagging frantically for 150 yards,
he made the shelter of a group of trees
—he collided with one, sustaining further
injuries. On his return from the Middle
East he served with 78 Kittyhawk Squad,
and was later sent to Washington and
London on staff appointments. Perrin
has lately been on the staff of R.A.A.F.
H.Q. He succeeds Group-Captain Glen
Cooper, another Melbourne man.
If by some queer chance a feather-
brained bobbysoxer happened to wander
into a Boyd Neel concert and threw a
swoon at sight of the handsome conduc-
tor the cry of “Is there a doctor in the
house?” would never go unanswered,
for Louis Boyd Neel is himself a quali-
fied medical man. Conductor of the
string orchestra of 20 players —18 only
came to do the Australian tour under the
auspices of the British Council —which
ORCHESTRATION.
bears his name, Boyd Neel was educated
at the R.N. College at Dartmouth and at
Caius College, Cambridge. Qualifying in
1930, he became house surgeon at St.
George’s Hospital, London, later going
into private practice. Three years later
he founded his String Orchestra. It be-
came a question of either music or medi-
cine, and, choosing his best love, Boyd
Neel abandoned the scalpel for the baton.
He has wielded it at the Sadler’s Wells
opera and was the first conductor at
Glyndebourne. In 1937 he took his
orchestra, by invitation, to the Salzburg
Festival. Boyd Neel, whose rehearsal
expression has been caught here by
Dubois, expends the least physical exer-
tion of any conductor seen here in years
for results to which music lovers all over
Australia can enthusiastically testify.
Samuel Benson Dickinson, Director of
Mines in S.A., is that State’s delegate to
the International Geological Congress in
London next year, when he will pro-
bably discuss the possibilities of the
Mount Paynter uranium deposits. Dick-
inson is a Tasmanian who arrived in S.A.
seven years ago as Assistant Government
Geologist, and took over his present post
from his father-in-law, Dr. L. Keith
Ward, in 1944. Dickinson collected his
B.Sc. with first-class honors at Melbourne
Uni. in 1939, did surveys for Mt, Lyell
and Electrolytic Zinc, and a Common-
wealth survey on goldfields. A thesis on
S.A. copper-fields brought him his M.Sc.
Later he did the aerial survey and geolo-
gical mapping of Leigh Creek coalfield.
He’s 34.
James Albert Allen, of the University
of Queensland, has won this year’s Mas-
son Memorial Scholarship founded by
the Australian Chemical Institute. He
will undertake research work at the
Queensland Uni. in physical and inorganic
chemistry under Associate Professor
Lauder. Like those of many other
students, Allen’s studies were interrupted
by the war. After discharge from the
R.A.A.F. he completed his science degree
course.
“King’s Pawn”; R. G. Wade, the young
M.L. chess champion who did so well in
the Chess Club Jubilee invitation tour-
ney in Sydney two years ago, went to
England last year to play, by invitation,
in the British chess championship. He
is still abroad —at latest he was giving
exhibitions of simultaneous play in
America, in conjunction with Yanoysky,
the Canadian champion ; and he is likely
to stay for this year’s British champion-
ship. Wade is on leave from the Govern-
ment laboratory.
At the end of 1945 the compiler of the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Handbook
reported that there were still 13 survivors
of the first (1901) Commonwealth Par-
liament ; but there are not nearly that
many now. Billy, of course, is the only
one left in the Legislature, and this month
the career of Hugh de Largie closed in
Sydney, De Largie, a fiery Scot of
French descent, who had worked on the
Golden Mile, was a Westralian Senator
till 1922. A conscriptibnist when the
1916 split came, he survived all the 1901
Senators from the West, except Pearce,
and all the teams from N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria and South Australia. Never in
office, he had hopes of becoming Presi-
dent of the Senate, but the long-dead
Givens beat him to it.
Had ta 94th birthday in Adelaide,
Washington Goodfellow, who claims to
have sold a book to Mark Twain half a
century back; also to have sold a race-
card to Adam Lindsay Gordon about
1869, when the racing poet was saddling
up to ride Blackmore’s Lancelot in the
Adelaide Hunt Club steeple.
The American singer here warbling
about blue birds would get an attentive
listener in Laurie Penn, caught by Heth
as he listened to the engine song on one
of his Blue Bird air taxis as it warmed up
at Bankstown (Sydney) before flying a
passenger out to Bobbra Wobbra or some
such place. Penn is chief pilot of the
Blue Bird service, which was started by ex-
servicemen with Austers —an English job
which can land on and take off from any
flat 100 yd. strip. Penn and his colleagues
claim that no part of Australia is beyond
their air taxis and they’re determined that
henceforth nobody who wants to go to
Bobbra Wobbra or Pingin will have the
excuse that he couldn’t get there. Penn,
an Empire Air Scheme trainee, had four
years’ R.A.A.F. service as flying-officer
in Canada, England and Europe, com-
pleted 40 missions in Mitchell bombers
attached to 180 Squadron, Surrey, Eng.,
then went to 81 Group of the Tactical
Air Force and flew people like Mont-
AVIATION.
gomery. General Browning, Prince Bern-
hard and their staffs about the European
battlefields. Flew them all in Austers,
and it was thus Penn learned of Auster
safety and other attributes and conceived
the taxi notion.
With a distinguished career in two wars
and a fine record of civic service as
Adelaide’s City Engineer, W. C. D. Veale,
diagrammed here by Coventry, becomes
that city’s Town Clerk. . Educated at St.
Andrew’s College, Bendigo School of
Mines and London Tech., he enlisted in
the A.I.F. in the First World Wgr, won
ADMINISTRATION.
a D.C.M. as a private and added a
Military Cross to it after gaining his com-
mission. In Hitler’s War, with the rank
of Brigadier, he organised the R.A.E.
training centre at Wagga and saw over
20,000 “gingerbeers” pass through it.
Back in 1923 Veale was appointed
Deputy City Engineer and six years later
became City Engineer and Building Sur-
veyor. The Adelaide Bridge, Olympic
Pool and the carrying out of the scheme
for the beautification of the River
Torrens’ banks are some of the major
works for which he can claim credit.
Warwick (Q.) is justifiably proud of
the appointment, at 47, of Major-General
Norman Clowes as A.D.C. to the King.
Son of Albert Clowes, a Warwick (Q.)
dentist, himself a former lieut.-
colonel, Clowes and his elder brother
Cyril were at the Warwick Central
School and Toowoomba Grammar be-
fore passing into Duntroon. Both won
distinction in the 1914-18 war, and Nor-
man transferred to the British Army in
1931, after exchange service in India. He
commanded the First Battalion of the
Manchesters. He served in Palestine in
World War 11, was with British H.Q. in
the Middle East and later was military
Governor of Algeria and Northern Italy
until the withdrawal of the occupation
troops, subsequently becoming president
of a board of review on the status of
British Army officer personnel at home
and abroad. Lieut-General Cyril H.
Clowes, whose work at Milne Bay was
responsible for checking the Japanese in-
vasion effort, is now G.O.C. Southern
Command. The brothers have a rare dis-
tinction in holding parallel sets of
decorations —C.8.E., D.S.O. and M.C.
Into the silence:
In Maoriland, at 78, George William Forbes,
M.P. for Hurunui 1908-43 and Prime Minister
1930-35. He was a Lyttelton man, and in his
time he held almost every portfolio —Lands
and Agriculture, Finance, Customs, External
Affairs, Railways, Attorney-General, Native
Affairs, Public Trust, Scientific and Industrial
Research; mostly when he was P.M. New
Zealanders expect their statesmen to work.
At Rhodes (N.S.W.), at 69, William Henry
Watson, M.C., known among Old Diggers not
only for his war service but for his work on
the German Verge and Elizabeth Kirby Trusts.
Watson served with “A” Battery, R.A.A., m
South Africa and was awarded the M.C. while
warrant-officer with the 17 th Battalion at
Armentieres
At Invereil (N.S.W.), at 73, Henry Crawford,
owner-trainer of Maid of Athens, winner of
Melbourne Ascot Thousand, and trainer of
winners of 400 other races over 40 years in
which he held an AJ.C. licence; and never
up before the stewards. In his early \days
Crawford was a teamster and axeman. He
won 27 footraces out of 28 in the Mudges
district, and could sit a bucking horse with
the best of them.
At Wonthaggi (Vic.), at 81, Mrs. Sarah Ann
McDonald, a pioneer of the Blackwood Fosest,
Gippsland. She was a granddaughter ofi
Richard Davis, the first to discover coal in
Victoria.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Kirribilli Pointers are awfully pleased
with the U.S. Navy for decking their
special bit of the Harbor with the splen-
did and gorgeous warship Antietam. By
day she’s a handsome creature % of heroic
build. By night she’s a siren with two
high-voltage gems, like a Rajah’s rubies,
set above her brow —anyway set above
her. Let Woolloomooloo have the flag-
ship Shangri-la, complete with admiral;
Kirribilli dotes on Antietam. The Lowray,
her dressed decks blurring now and then
into Saturday morning's haze, was a
great sight as she moved majestically to
pick up her moorings in Walsh Bay.
Well, some like ships and some like men.
The American Task Force is now on its
10-days’ visit to Sydney so you can take
your choice.
America’s Consul - General Orsen
Nielsen and Mrs. Nielsen threw a glitter-
ing party of welcome to the American
Navy visitors last Saturday. This was a
late-afternoon affair, and packed 200
guests into the Savarin, Australia’s own
Navy, Army and Air Force were well
represented among those smiling wel-
come. Rear-Admiral S. P. Ginder, who
is in command of the Task Force, and
Commander Bernard Roeder have warm
smiles and the super-charm that fit the
lads in navy-blue as snugly as their uni-
forms.
Mrs. Nielsen’s long black velvet skirt
was topped by a white satin blouse
printed in tones of lilac. The wife of
U.S. Ambassador Robert Butler and
daughter Catherine were among a group
of guests who came from Canberra for
the party. U.S. Naval Attache Captain
B. F. Tompkins and Mrs. Tompkins,
Admiral G. D. Moore and daughter
Barbara, Lieut.-General and Mrs. Berfy-
man, the Bertie Kellys, the Garnet
Malleys were there. So were two U.S.
women Vice-Consuls: Eva Bryan Wilson
and Evelyn Schwarztrauber.
Loreto Ex-Students Union has no com-
plaints over the Grace Auditorium, where
members and their friends danced
through a blithe night last week. This
year the ball had success star-dusted over
it. There were 600 dancers beneath the
multi-colored lights. The frocks were
crisp with newness. There were 17 pretty
debs. The supper-tables were flowdr-
fragrant and Valentine-ish with novelties ;
and the supper rated a vote of apprecia-
tion.
The debs, were presented to the wife
of Premier James McGirr. • Her frock
was of mushroom-pink lame —a nice
contrast to her dark hair and cream skin.
The frock, which was very long, had the
modern side-panniered look, and her
presentation flowers were deep-red roses.
Mrs. King Garnsey presented the social
aspirants, all in shimmering white and
carrying tiny Victorian posies. Mrs.
Garnsey’s smoke-grey chiffons were lit
with sequin-studded shoulder straps. The
Cliff Gearins were present, lobelia-blue
taffetas the right choice for her dark
slimness. The John Cahills and the Jim
Loneragans were there. So was Dr. Gwen
McGirr, who goes off almost immediately
to Ireland to take an obstetrics course at
the Dublin Rotunda, And a word must
be said about Mrs. Tom Bateman’s hand- v
painted chiffons. They were wreathed .in
rows and rows of red and yellow and blue
painted roses. The skirt had the extended-
hip effect, and was yards wide. To com-
plete the early-Victorian flavor the frock
has the off-the-shoulder line. About £2OO
for the school bursary fund is expected.
Decorations are on review this week,
and all that extra bit of spit and polish
that makes the military a shining thing
apart is being vigorously applied at Vic-
toria Barracks, On Friday night. May
23, there’s to be high revel there. On
that night the United Service Institution
of N.S.W. will hold its first dance since
1939. The president, Lieut.-General
F. H. Berryman, and Mrs. Berryman will
receive the guests at half-past eight, and
dancing will proceed briskly till one in
the morning. The three Services are
hurrying up to join in the fun, and the
dance promises to be one of the most
colorful and spectacular shows of the
season. It will be the first of a series of
dances sponsored by the various Services.
As this Letter was being popped into
the post the Trocadero was softly
luminous, and its vast spaces bloomed
with strelitzia, berries and chrysanthe-
mums, which had arrived by the crate-
load to make the Floral Ball live up to
its name. The ball was in aid of the
Women’s Hospital, Crown-street, and
autumn flower and foliage were twined
into posy and buttonhole and sold by
a group of bright-faced girls. The tables
in the flower decoration contest gave the
judges, Beatrice Stewart, Miss Webb and
the Moxham lady, a hard task deciding
the winner.
Matron Shaw, of Crown-street, brought
a large and quite-grown-up party. Dr.
Falkiner Blaxland and his attractive wife
entertained. The cape she wore thrown
over her off-white crepes was the sort of
wrap that Might happen in a fairy story.
It was of gosling down, soft and silky and
cream-tinged. It was about knee-length
and was lined with faintest primrose
crepe de Chine. The wife of W. Dovey,
K.C., was one of the night’s handsome.
Banker McKerihan’s wife, who was presi-
dent of the committee, added to the
night’s glitter in a frock that was closely
beaded in gold from square-cut neckline
to hem. Under the Trocadero lighting
it looked like liquid gold, melted bullion.
It has a classic cut.
Pictured here is Lois Graham, who is
president of the Victoria League’s Young
Contingent. Lois has been one of the
active workers for the Empire Ball, which
publicity officer Aura Jackson declares
is going to be one of the great successes
in the historic nights of the Trocadero.
Tomorrow night, May 22, is the date to
be remembered. There will be a nice
helping of U.S. Task Force officers at
the ball, and one of the bright moments
will be the presentation to the Frederick
Jordan lady by Mrs. Harold Nicholas of
the girls competing in the Cities of
Empire contest. There’s a gleaming
silver compact waiting to be handed over
to the winner. The night’s profits go to
Australia’s quota towards the V.L,
Memorial Club in London. Norton
Trevaire photograph of Lois.
Make no mistake, the people of Britain
want every ounce of meat and fat and
sugar this country can send. Here is an
extract from a letter written by a young
mother whose house in St. James’ Square,
London, was bombed to rubble in the
early days of the blitz:
At the moment everything seems to be
just a bit worse than ever it was in the war.
Really everything seems to be rationed now,
and vegetables are very scarce and terribly
expensive. The sweets ration has been cut
again, and I expect a lot more things will
be between now and the summer. The
milk ration is less than half a pint a day.
The price of clothes is incredible —a day
frock with a short silk jacket to go with
it was priced at £BO in a well-known West
End designer’s show.
The letter tells more about fuel shortage,
and the intense cold, but it doesn’t
grumble or lament. It is really a hymn
of thanks for parcels from Australia.
Can’t we resolve never again to let our
kinsfolk overseas experience the hard-
ships the past winter brought them?
President of the Royal Art Society,
Erik Langker, missed out on the Society’s
Autumn Show. Reason, an ankle broken
When he was out sketching some weeks
ago. Erik, who has now attained trustee-
ship of the National Gallery, declares,
however, he will see -the Royal’s show
“The Dancing Years” if fellow-painters
Squire Morgan and Albert Sherman have
to push him there in a bathchair. The
art exhibition will be open till the end of
the month. Opening speech was made
by W. J. Bradley, K.C., and among the
500 or so visitors were the wife and
daughter of Education Minister Heffron.
The Dargie portrait of the Duke of Glou-
cester was much gazed upon, and among
flower-pieces high marks go to Albert
Sherman’s “Syringa.”
A listener at Henryk Mierowski’s con-
cert last Saturday night who sat behind
this writer wished fervently that the
musician might reveal “soul” when he
started to play. Well, “soul” or no
“soul,” the opening Chromatic Fantasy
and Fugue of Bach was worth hearing.
The Scarlatti sonatas were a dainty dish,
and altogether the Polish Henryk pleased
a full, though not replete, Town Hall.
The audience fairly bristled with pianists,
among them Olga Krasnik, Alexander
Sverjensky and his wife and Mrs. H.
Evans (Beatrice Tange), who goes off soon
to Brisbane to make concert appearances
with the A.B.C. orchestra. Another
Mierowski concert tonight at the same
address.
From Melbourne
Consul-General for the U.S.A. Ralph
Boyce and Mrs. Boyce received 150
guests at their residence in Fairlie Court,
South Yarra, to meet Rear-Admiral Car-
son and 40 of his officers from the U.S.
Task Force now visiting Melbourne. Mrs.
Boyce wore a stunning dinner jacket-suit
of black taffeta. Assisting host and hostess
in welcoming were the assistant naval
attache. Commander B. J. Moynahan,
and Mrs. Moynahan, and Vice-Consul
Armistead Lee and Mrs. Lee. Com-
mander Eardley Wilmot, R.N., brought
his American wife over from Tasmania
for the party ; her silver fox cape was
worn over a black frock. General and
Mrs. Clowes were there, she in a cinna-
mon-brown jacket suit embroidered in
green and silver beads and a matching
hat trimmed with brown fur. With Capt.
C. Bridges, R.A.N., was his daughter Ann,
who is a medical student at the Uni.
Mrs. John Howse, from Canberra, was
with her mother, Mrs. Rupert Downes.
Mrs. Leigh Falkiner, who came with her
husband, wore an attractive lime-green
jacket suit and a monumental orange-
flecked lime-green feather in her small
matching ‘felt hat. Black ospreys, the
tips sewn with gold sequins, formed the
notable hat worn by Mrs. Harold Rab-
ling. Gold embroidery edged the swathed
hip-enveloping rust drapery that high-
lighted her long black dinner gown.
Mrs. J. O. Haselden contrasted her
black frock with a small hat of pastel-
blue ostrich feathers. Mrs. P. Perry,
who was with her husband, Capt. Perry,
R.A.N., was smartly tailored —they
chatted with the genial Col Wilkinson,
secretary to the Premier’s Department.
Eleanor Booth’s short black crepe dinner
skirt was allied to a tunic blouse of silver
lame embroidered in pastel-pinks and
-blues. A blue and cyclamen hat was
worn by Mrs. Norman Robinson with
her cyclamen frock.
Guests at the party, who went on to
the dinner given by Sir Winston and
Lady Dugan, at Government House, in-
cluded Rear-Admiral Carson, Mr. and
Mrs. R. Boyce and Air Marshal George
Jones and Mrs. Jones, whose frock of
white crepe, gold embroidered, had a
flight of small gold aeroplanes set across
one shoulder. Lady Herring, who was
with Sir Edmund, was in a black dinner
gown. Mrs. E. Sebree, who returns with
her brigadier husband to the U.S.A.
shortly, was a sartorial hit in an old-gold
crepe skirt, cut on graceful lines, and a
bodice, sewn in an all-over design of
gold beads.
This picture of Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
was taken at the CoTal Sea Ball at a
mojnent when she was less busy than
usual. This woman of unbounded energy
is president of the Women’s Group of
the Australian-American Association, and
it was her Younger Set which staged the
floor show and mannequin parade at the
ball. It is an axiom in Melbourne that
where the charitable function is there
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell will be doing some
solid organising work. Last Friday, after
being hostess at her Younger Set’s fare-
well luncheon party at Menzies’ to
Martha Sebree, Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
went, ostensibly to rest, at her seaside
home at Frapkston. Friends tip, however,
that she will spend quite a bit of the time
planning for one of her pet functions,
the Joybells Ball, profits of which will
go to the Orthopaedic Hospital for
Children at Frankston. Her son Robert
and daughter Betty have arrived in Eng-
land ; Robert on business and Betty to
study interior decorating.
Every seat was occupied in the Town
Hall for the opening concert by baritone
John Charles Thomas, and each song
was greeted with roof-lifting applause.
The golf balls handed up by an enthusi-
astic member of the audience were cer-
tainly more useful if not exactly as tradi-
tional as the laurel wreath which the singer
also received at the end of the concert.
Dressing was a potpourri—the formal
jostled with the Sunday-best. Mrs. Henry
Rosenthal wore an outstanding black
dinner suit and a tall turban of pastel-
toned flowers. Mrs. G. Allen McKay,
whose white gown was sequin-trimmed,
came with her husband and son Dr. A.
McKay and his wife. The Hyde lady,
who was with the Sam Wells couple, wore
a frock of hyacinth-blue trimmed with
silver leaves. The E. Bentons and the
C. V. Robertsons were eager applauders.
Mrs. Jean Miller, in a dark rose-red suit
and matching hat, was with her daughter
Margaret, whose royal-blue frock was
worn under a black Indian lamb-trimmed
coat; her small halo hat was of pastel-
toned flowers. Mrs. John Mollard’s white
nylon gown was embellished with hand-
painted flowers. Mrs. Frank Tait was
in saxe-blue jacket suit and white fox
cape; Mrs. Gordon Tail's old-gold
taffeta gown was banded in red velvet.
Mrs. Leith Crow, her gown of pastel-
blue crepe trimmed with silver beads,
was with her husband and Dr. and Mrs.
Barry Thompson.
The Littlejohn Memorial Chapel,
Scotch College, was decorated with large
bowls of pastel-tinted flowers for the
wedding of Kathleen June Christensen,
only child of the Consul for Denmark
and Mrs. Christensen, and James Stewart
Shaw, eldest son of Brigadier J. S. and
Mrs. Shaw, of Hawthorn. The Rev. Dr.
Macaulay officiated. Given away by her
father, the bride wore a graceful gown of
white lace and tulle, her long flowing
veil being caught on her head by clusters
of white nerines; her bouquet was of
nerines and bouvardia. Mrs. Warren
Goldsworthy was matron-of-honor and
the bride’s cousins Margaret Sangster and
Shirley Saxton, both from Sydney, were
bridesmaids. Their gowns were of ice-
blue moire, and in ,their hair were trails
of pastel-pink nerines. John Shaw,
brother of the ’groom, was best man and
Warren Goldsworthy and Douglas Far-
quhar were groomsmen. At No. 9 Darl-
ing-street there was a buffet dinner and
dance. Visitors from N.S.W. included
John Sangster, the A. W. Saxtons, the S.
Sangsters, all from Sydney, the R.
Schmidts, of Tam worth, and Mrs. Hugh
Jackson, of Orange.
At a friendly, informal party at the
U.S. Naval and Military Legation Brig.-
General Sebree and his family and Asst.
Naval Attache, Commander Brendan
Moynihan, and his wife were farewelled
by the staff. Sergeant Ray Beck pre-
sented a silver cigarette-box to the
General, and C.P.O. Bill Norman pre-
sented a similar gift’ to Commander
Moynahan. Mrs. Sebree and daughter
Martha received beautiful corsages of
gardenias, whilst youngest daughter
Pauline received a posy of pink rosebuds.
Mrs. Sebree was smart in mustard-toned
tweeds. Bands of deep-brown highlighted
the jacket, while her brown hat was
pierced with a quill in mustard toning.
Martha chosq a dark-green ensemble,
Pauline setting off her fair complexion
with a suit of pale-pink and black-
checked wool. Gardenias lent contrast
to the black and gold ensemble worn by
Mrs. Moynahan. Mrs. J. S. Sauer had
a pink rose in her black hat to match
her shoulder spray. Gerald Patterson
and Ivor Whitton dropped in to wish the
Washington-bound families good luck.
Legation secretaries Lucy Branning and
Martha Counts helped with the hostess-
ing, and Flora Whitton and Betty Gosney
also saw that guests had all they needed.
Topping the bill in the latest Tivoli
show, “Americana,” is, strangely enough,
Australian comedian George Wallace.
Recently returned from Japan, where he
has been entertaining the troops, George
does some very topical numbers. The
ballet is outstanding in its white and
cerise draperies worn in “Symphony in
Cerise,” and the eye-taking black and
pink “naughty nineties” costumes it wears
for “Paree.” Noticed Peter Lynch
squiring his fiancee Kath Christie ; Peter
Lewis came with Maureen Wilton. With
Mrs. A. B. Silk was Mrs. J. Moss, whose
daughters Joan and Helen are in America.
Garnet Carroll left his theatre and “Life
With Father” to fend for themselves
while he and his wife had a night out;
with them were Mr. and Mrs. Con
Curtain.
Mrs. Robert Hamilton (she is the wife
of the member for Toorak in the State
House) is organising a “Music Through
the Ages” lecture-recital for the funds of
the Q.V. Re-Building Appeal. Biddy
Allen will lecture and well-known artists
will interpret her story. Dorian le Gal-
lienne will play three of his own composi-
tions, and also on the programme will be
Viva Holgate Clarke, Margaret Sloman,
Jean Officer and Helen Maudsley. It will
be staged at the home of the Brookes
lady, Kurneh, South Yarra. Tickets are
to be one guinea each.


h
Last Year’s Will
may not meet to-day*s
. conditions
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desir-
able that you consult your Solicitor and
have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages
of appointing The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited as your Executor.
Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a
fixed and moderate charge, the services of
a Company with more than 68 years’ prac<
tical experience in the administration of
Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.-
1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,488.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WARES DIRECTORS;
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.;
Sir Leslie Morsbead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.;
David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
A
DAVIES & COLLINSON, Patent Attorneys, Oollina
House, 360 Collins Street, C.I. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
ATOMIC SANDS
RUTILE
ZIRCONIUM
MONAZITE
Persons interested in the de-
velopment of this Industry may
obtain particulars on applica-
tion to
Gilbert M. Johnstone & Co.
Solicitors,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS *
E B. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUGKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, ' General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
f- 1 Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Loss. 5.8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> £/ £/ £/ &
1936.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937.. 145,379 58,125 Nil 87,254 308,135
Added patents, £968 .. .. 307,167
1938.. 213,884 58,125 Nil 155,759 462,926
29 p.c.
1939.. 353,504 290,624 Nil, 62,880 525,806
Patents disappear, £59,593 .. 585,399
5.8 p.c.
1940.. 382,417 58,125 Nil 324,292 909,691
74 p-c.
1941.. 35,434 75,000 Nil 870,125
1942.. 87,391 75,000 Nil 12,391 882,516
1943.. 350,345 75,000 Nil 275,345 1,157,861
1944.. 187,368 75,000 Nil 112,368 1,270,229
Ord. div. appropriation added re-
serves £91,675 1,361,904
1945.. 159,695 75,000 84,095 1,446,599
6 p.c.
1946.. 846,872 75,000 235,000 36,872 1,483,471
Iron and steel are vital to Australia’s
future development. Interfere with pro-
duction of them and you retard maxi-
mum output and efficiency all along the
line, from capital to consumption goods.
For this and other reasons the growing
menace of underproduction, owing to
strikes and hold-ups which, interrupt out-
put and reduce the national income and
set up stresses and strains everywhere, is
steadily being borne in upon thinking
people—but they are still, numerically,
a minority.
Ever since B.H.P. bought the 4,700,000
A. I. and S. £1 ords—and with them-
control —in 1935, the story has been one
of expansion, based on efficiency and
cheapness. Financial results were curbed
during the war years by heavy expendi-
ture on plant and production of steel
and munitions, etc., for the Government
on a cost basis. The co. has since been
unable to make the most of expanding
opportunities in the local and export
markets, because industrial hold-ups and
shortages of coal and labor have stood
in the way of quickened production.
For the first six weeks of last term
the big plant at Port Kembla was idle,
owing to a strike which began in Sep-
tember, 1945. For the rest of the year
operations continued without interrup-
tion, but they were limited by a restricted
supply of coal and shortage of labor —
the latter partly on account of the hous-
ing position. So although No. 2 blast
furnace, which had been relined, was
blown in again in July last, No. 1 furnace
had to be closed down. However, output
increased and, after allowing £796,903
(up £28,718) for depreciation'and some-
thing for taxation, the net result was
£187,177 better at £346,872. That
covered the pref. div. (£75,000) and 5.8
p.c. on ord. capital as against 1.8, 2.4,
5.8 and 0.3 p.c. back to 1942. The ords.
were handed 5 p.c.; their first div. sin.e
the co. took over Hoskins’ Lithgow works
and transferred them to Kembla about
19 years ago. The 5 p.c. (£235,000) is
etfual to 1.6 p.c, on capital of 8.H.P.,
whose prospects of better later on are
encouraging.
Erection of the new battery of 48 by-
product coke ovens, and the reorganisa-
tion of the cbal mines, are being pushed
ahead as fast as labor and materials will
allow. Construction of a rod and strip
mill and a new adit to the coal seam at
Mt. Nebo has begun, and a coal washing
plant is to be installed. It all spells in-
creased and more efficient production,
as well as an assault upon cos + s.
In association with B.H.P. the co. pro-
poses to erect a big hot-cold strip mill,
which will incorporate a tinplate plant,
at Kembla. Executives are now in
America investigating technical and other
aspects of the problems involved. The
cost isn’t mentioned, but is likely to be
in the neighborhood of a couple of mil-
lion pounds.
Transport of iron-ore from Cockatoo
Island, Yampi Sound —here about a mil-
lion pounds is being spent on develop-
ment, etc.—to the furnaces at Kembla
and Newcastle is expected to begin early
in 1948. Four 12,500-ton vessels are be-
ing built in B.H.P.’s Whyalla yards for
the purpose.
Capital outlay and trade revival are
further reflected in net additions of
£342,459 to fixed assets and of £606,689
to debtors’ balances:
1035. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £5,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors.. 649,937* 1,965,713 2,471,485
Fixed assets .. 3,794,371 5,800,597 6,143,056
Shares in other cos. 891,809 386,498 386,498
Stocks . . . . 269,009 1,255,828 1,234,719
Book debts .. 317,722 153,455 760,144
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 1,553,440 1,116,046
* Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
Cash, etc., was drawn upon for £437,394
and £505,772 was added to the amount
coming to outsiders. The year’s con-
traction in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£1,077,901) was £305,587.
At 365. 3d. the well-protected 1\ p.c.
cum. prefs. return 4.1 p.c.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. server, serves.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 58,088 5.8p.e. = 43,750 14,338 121,351
1938.. 65,145 6i„„ 46,875 1 13 270 134 621
To staff fund, £5OOO .. | 13 > 270 134,021
1939.. 51,233 6i p.c. = 46,875 4,358 138,979
1940.. 49,352 6i „ „ 46,875 2,477 141,456
1941.. 38,971 5 „ „ 37,500 *1,471 142,927
1942.. 45,661 5 „ „ 37,500 8,161 151,088
1943.. 58,243 6i „ „ 46,875 11,368 162,456
Inner reserves disclosed, £172,217.. 334,673
1944.. 112,589 8f p.c. = 65,625 ) or* q oa ..o'?
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. | 36,964 37,1,637
Unexplained addition, £126,512 .. 498,149
1945.. 96,732 8J p.c. = 65,625 1 , n 7 - 24 256
To staff fund, £5,000 .. j 26,107 024,20 b
Unexplained addition, £152,594 .. 676,850
1946.. 80,401 8} p.c. = 65,625 14,776 691,626
Unexplained addition, £636 .. 692,262
1947.. 89,086 8J p.c. = 65,625 23,461 715,723
A year ago the board was thinking
about returning half the share capital.
That was because the British Govern-
ment decided to continue its war-time
policy of bulk buying and shipping of
copra and other island produce, thus re-
ducing the amount of working capital
needed in the business. However, the
trade recession expected to follow ter-
mination of abnormal war-time spending
has been less severe than was anticipated,
thanks to continued strong demand by
the British and French Ministries of Food
and the high prices paid for produce. So
the board has decided to postpone further
consideration of a part return of capital
until U.N.O. settles the question of trus-
teeships in the South Pacific and the
policies of the Trusteeship Council and
South Pacific Advisory Council are
clearly defined.
Conditions remained unfavorable for
reinvestment of capital and expansion of
operations last term, the chairman says.
Still the co.’s merchandising and finance
business, its inter-island shipping fleet,
plantations and large wad of outside in-
vestments turned in an extra £16,843 of
gross profit Exes. (£168,844)
took all but £8685 of the gain. The
£89,086 of profit claimed, third-best in
the co.’s history, was 11.8 p.c, on capi-
tal as against 10.7, i 2.9, 15, 7.6, 6, 5.2
and 6.5 p.c. back to 1940. The cautious
board kept the div. at 8f p.c. Since 1943
no less than £451,000-odd has been
brought from hiding and put in the win-
dow, and it is unlikely that the cupboard
where • the inner reserves are kept has
been left bare.
The board is silent as to whether trad-
ing has been resumed at the four branches
in the Solomon and Gilbert groups which
fell into enemy hands. However, the out-
look for copra and other island produce
is one of strong demand and good prices
over the next few years. What will hap-
pen after the big trade vacuums created
by the war have been filled remains to
be seen. Though copra production in
the Philippines has recovered rapidly, the
N.E.1., the world’s biggest producer pre-
war, remains dormant. Present sterling
buying price in Fiji is £26 9s. a ton as
against £lB ss. 6d. a year ago and
£9 12s. 6d, pre-war. Certainly costs have
risen, too, but there is a fat margin of
profit at the present price.
More weight has been added to the
already robust financial position:
1940. 1943. 1946. 1947.
Capital ~ £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 55,708 430,777 244,102 838,182
Properties, ship-
ping, etc... 384,546 199,209 126,383 117,374
Investments.. 258,096 282,560 1,133,566 1,108,760
Merchandise,
etc. . . 98,803 698,998 279,723 394,133
Book debts .. 163,221 90,482 85,853 113,190
Cash .. . . 67,498 100,108 97,702 102,948
To carry an extra £114,410 of merchan-
dise and add £27,337 to debtors’ balances
the board reduced investments by
£24,806 and went outside for a further
£89,080 last term. Including investments,
which are largely Government securities,
the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,385,839) was £33,097 stronger than
at the previous balance.
The f.-p. pound shares, visibly covered
by 395. Id. in net tangibles, have ad-
vanced from the old ceiling of 30s. at
end 1946 to 495. in the market. At 495.
the immediate return is 3.5 p.c. on an
81 p.c. div. basis.
Gowing Bros., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends —*
Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves.
£ £ & &
1936.. 7,375 5,400 Nil 4,739
1937.. 8,226 5,400 Nil 7,565
1938.. 9,036 5,400 Nil 11,201
1939.. 9,056 5,400 Nil 14,857
6i p.c.
1940.. -10,746 5,850 2 p.c. = 2,814 16,939
7i p.c.
1941.. 14,610 6,525 5 „ „ 7,035 17,989
1942.. 14,408 6,525 5 „ „ 7,035 18,838
1943.. 15,499 6,525 5 „ „ 7,035 20,777
1944.. 14,522 6,525 5 „ „ 7,035 21,739
8 p.c.
1945.. 20,018 7,200 8 „ „ 11,173 23,384
1946.. 50,230* 7,200 10 „ „ 14,441 51,973*
* Subject to tax commitments incurred during 1946.
After the co. has rendered to Caesar, net
profit for 1946 may stand at about
£27,000. The taxable £50,230 shown in the
table is itself an improvement by £ 13,887, or
38 p.c., on the comparable figure for 1945.
Having been hit with especial severity
by the 1931 slump—partly because of
their property, which was large and ex-
pensive in upkeep, though becoming in-
creasingly valuable —Gowings were on
their feet again by 1939. Then the retail
business, since it is confined to men’s and
boys’ wear, was repressed during the
years of mobilisation. In 1945 there was
a sharp boost in sales ; turnover of men’s
clothes in Sydney stores generally rose by
60 p.c. in the last months of the year.
The upward trend continued throughout
1946 but at a diminishing rate, and
latest figures supplied by the Retail
Traders’ Association in Sydney indicate
that sales are levelling off again on the
higher plane.
Profit figures suggest that Gowings
have enjoyed their full share of the re-
vival. Figures of annual turnover or of
gross profits from retailing are not pub-
lished, but the income from other sources,
mainly rentals, has not varied materially
in recent years. The co. itself occupies
the basement and three floors of the 12-
storied premises at the corner of Market-
and George-strefets ; the remainder has for
several years been fully occupied by
tenants.
To finance a policy of expansion, the
directors recently issued £35,891 of new
ord. capital in £1 shares at par. Pro-
gressive measures already adopted in-
clude the acquirement of a subsidiary,
Austral Workrooms Pty, Ltd., to turn out
ready-made suits; the co-opting of
“associate directors” —experienced mem-
bers of the staff—to assist the board ; and
a vigorous advertising campaign. The
traditional emphasis on utility and
economy in the clothing lines offered to
the public has not been modified.
Finances are healthy;
1939. 1944. 1945. 1946.
Paid capital. . £282,545 £232,545 £232,545 £240,470
Overdraft . . 12,783 14,082 19,697 21,244
Creditors . . 21,667 34,887 30,080 49,730
Freehold . . 213,541 213,541 213,541 213,541
Fittings, plant 37,858 38,985 39,015 39,365
Stocks .. 32,051 67,997 69,715 93,275
Debtors . . 14,521 8,742 13,001 9,552
Shares other cos. 9,037 ) „„ f 13,216 21,615
Cash, etc. .. j 1 20,000 35,000
Freehold is shown at original purchase
price (£393,541), less mortgage of
£lBO,OOO ; the reserve for depreciation of
fixed assets stands now at £35,577. Last
year an increase of £21,197 in liabilities
and of £20,661 in shareholders’ funds
enabled stocks to rise by £23,560 and
cash by £15,000. Liquid assets (includ-
ing shares) exceeded liabilities by £88,468,
an improvement of £22,213. The increase
in shares (£8399) - results from acquire-
ment of the subsidiary.
When the new issue has been fully paid
in August, capital will be £276,451, which
will comprise 90,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 186,451 ords. (6545 held by


lift;
:
Wm' Wm
m®.
m
xxx^Xv/Xv^'v/^-Xv:^:-/
xtfxVx
«SSg
iiiii
<W£w
mm
h
ii
; : Af3^^^^«<$>S;:>^>iSc>i:::;v::::%:;:;^:;;;::;;:::;:::;:; ; ::;;:::::5&;3
glllglp^lp^
-1
m
mm
g*si
SKMS
: x
ft®
■
«S-:SS
II
H
mm
mms
s:®:
I
i '
- fo M
■ s i
&jgSSmm:Mky-
SSBS?
■SB
UJ
5r
■p#
111
%
i#:
Recipe ior a Latex
Sponge Cake
BUT —you won’t find it in Mrs.
Beeton’s Cookery 800k —for this
recipe is a Dunlop masterpiece !
Chief ingredient is Latex (the milk-
like juice of the rubber tree) beaten
into a froth by giant whisks, much
as Mrs. Housewife beats the eggs
for a light and fluffy sponge cake.
The beating process introduces in-
numerable air bubbles so that when
the resultant frothy mixture is cooked
in moulds of the required shape, the
finished product —just like a good
sponge cake —is honeycombed with
millions of inter-connected air cells.
This unusual “sponge cake” is known
far and wide today as Dunlopillo
Latex Foam Cushioning—one of the
most revolutionary products of the
rubber age ! A number of Companies
throughout the world are now licensed
to make use of this Dunlop invention
and market the product under their
own trade names. Fully porous,
self ventilating, soft, cool, odorless,
dustless, germ, moth and vermin
proof —it is the “perfect” material
for every upholstery purpose —from
office stool to hospital mattress.
The development and manufacture
of Dunlopillo Latex Foam Cushioning
is one of the many instances showing
how Dunlop research and experiment
have harnessed rubber to the needs
of modern living. If you have a
problem for which rubber, in any
one of its many forms, may provide
the answer, consult the Dunlop
Technical Service. To this end, you
are cordially invited to telephone or
write the Dunlop Branch in your
own State.
DUNIOPV-
employees), all of £1 each. Prefs. partici-
pate with the ords. to a further 2 p.c., on
the basis of ss. per cent, for each £1 p.c.
paid to the ords.
From the former ceiling-price of
248. 6d. for both types of shares, the
prefs. have advanced to 295. and the ords.
to 40s. each. On the basis of last year’s
div. (which incorporated a “bonus” pay-
ment of 2 p.c.) the yield at 40s. is 5 p.c.
•
Westralian goldmining cos. are per-
turbed about suggestions that the value
of the Australian pound should be
appreciated in terms of the pound
sterling. Costs are going up and up, and
profits are coming down and down on the
average-grade of ore now mined and
treated. An appreciation of 10 p.c. in
the value of our pound would chip
enough off the price of gold to force
present low-grade producers out of busi-
ness and compel others to mine only
higher-grade stuff, and so reduce their
life, thus affecting both the volume of
employment and the national income.
* * * *
Cuthbert’s Misima G.M. (paid capital
£160,000 in 10s. shares), operating at
Misima Island (Papua), has received
£72,314 on account of war-damage
claims, etc. Only one claim of £5404 for
road damage, etc., remains to be settled,
Practically all plant needed for a through-
put of 20,000 tons ore p.a. (50 p.c. pre-
war output) is either in Sydney awaiting
shipment or at Misima being overhauled,
But shipping and labor difficulties de-
cide the tempo, more work has yet to
be done on mine faces, and it is not ex-
pected that the first 10-head of stamps will
begin to fall again until early 1948. In
1940 the co. was treating ore with a head
value of sdwt. sgr. gold and 51dwt.
13gr. silver per ton. Recoveries were
92.4 p.c. gold and 30.1 p.c. silver. All-in
costs were then 255. 9.4 d. a ton. Ore re-
serves southern section were positive
200,473 tons and probable 103,768 tons,
The northern section, where little work
has been done, is expected to prove a
valuable asset. The market prices the
scrip at 13s, or thereabouts,
* * * *
Renison Associated Tin (Tas.) is corn-
ing into its own. The 1.2 p.c. average
value of the 1000 tons being milled
monthly is 50 p.c. up on the 0.8 p.c.
metallic tin budgeted for in the pros-
pectus. The main fissure, which geolo-
gists agree must exist to account for the
extensive “sills” of ore, such as those be-
ing worked on Battery Hill, has not yet
been located, but the diamond-drilling
campaign just launched by the newly ap-
pointed general manager—H. E. Edwards
—is expected to disclose the position of
the mother lode, on which high hopes
centre. The co. reached the dividend
list last year, and with only £50,000
capital to take care of should have little
difficulty in remaining there, particularly
as it only awaits a slight improvement
in the labor position to at least double
its present throughput. A developmental
drive on Battery Hill is in 132 ft. on an
ore-body 20ft. wide and still going strong
in the face, with values of 1.4 p.c. tin.
„ * T , * •
From London: The Offlcal Receiver
wants a change of management of the
De Bernales Westralian group of gold cos,
which he is winding up Controllers of
other mines in W.A. have been sounded,
but none, so far, have agreed to take
the job. Rising costs and the labor
problem are the trouble. Recently
Boulder Perseverance, Ltd., made a tempt-
ing bid for the block of Gt. Boulder
shares held, or controlled, by Claude de
Bernales, but the offer was not accepted,
Gt. Boulder shares have weakened lately
on reports that (1) a poor zone had been
met in the bottom workings, and (2) De
Bernales ;was steadily selling his holding.
Later reports discount these yarns, and
say that the mine is looking well and that
this year’s profit will be better than the
one on whose heels it treads.
« * * *
Wiluna, Gold Fields Australian De-
velopment and Lake View, joint option
holders of the Porphyry gold areas, an-
nounce that over £50,000 has been spent
by them to date. Additional power plant
is to be installed to speed up develop-
ment. A London report says that Wiluna
wants to buy the interests of the other
two cos. in the option,
• * ♦ •
“Compelled to sell antimony output
during the past few years at 20 p.c. to
25 p.c. below world parity,” Blue Spec
Mines, N.L. (W.A.), has asked the Federal
Government for a lift in the price. Re-
cent quotes for the stuff were 19s. 4d.
q ; for 6 0-p.c.-or-more ore. The
P ice for^rude antimony is £125
f . „ , . . \ f
stg. per ton. The co. has obtained further
financial assistance from the Govern-
ment to develop its Nullagme property
and to enable it to exercise the option,
Bewick Moreing and Co., the new general
managers, will further open up the
deposits, and ascertain payable ore re-
serves. Neglect of development and pre-
paratory work is said to be the cause of
the mine not fulfilling expectations to
aate. #
u . .
Balander : There was a big rise m
Queensland s mining output tor the first
quarter of 1947 compared with the similar
ppnod of ’46. Figures for the respective
er T* s are • s ilver, 448,858 ounces and
23,244 ounces ; lead, 6057 tons and nil;
zinc, 4758 tons and nil. Copper, figures
are down—3oB7 tons 46 and 691 tons
this year. Meantime, there’s activity in
oil search in the Roma district, where
Shell (Q.) Development Pty. and four
Australian cos. are to spend £1,000,000
or thereabouts in the hunt.


Everybody!;
snapping it now!
Grandpa’s snapping it! Young Willie’s
snapping it! We men —at last have got
our hands on a chocolate that’s made especially %
for us "not' so sweet”. And hear that
"SNAP” fellers? The louder the "SNAP”
the better the chocolate and Small’s Club
Chocolate breaks with a
good loud "SNAP”
everytime.
ii
H
1
xg*j
k I M-U
mmm
»" ' cSgjS?
<*£>*♦
Ki
Why should the men in the family
do all the "SNAPPING”? Ladies
like the best in chocolate, too.
Hold on to your chocolate you two
here comes Mother.
Smalls make great Chocolate
SUNDRY SHOWS
SHAKSPEARE'S
MUSICOMEDY.
It is possible that Shakspeare intended
“As You Like It” as a satire on the
Euphuists of his day, bringing genuine
Warwickshire clodhoppers among the
fake shepherds and shepherdesses so dear
to the followers of Spenser,
It is also possible that somebody
handed him a plot or a rough manu-
script and, only too well aware of the
flimsy romance of the plot, he decorated
it with a few lyrics, some rich lines of
dialogue and the “seven ages” speech
and threw it contemptuously to his audi-
ence —as they liked it. In the spirit, per-
haps, with which he would turn out to-
day a pot-boiling musicomedy for J. C.
Williamson.
Satire fades. Only scholars can really
be much amused by the gibes of Aristo-
phanes at Euripides, or by Shelley’s
political whip-cracking in “Swellfoot the
Tyrant.” So that, to make the most of
You Like It” today, a producer
would have to disregard the satirical
aspect —if indeed it was intended —and
do the show as lavishly as possible as a
musicomedy, bringing in choruses, even
ballet. It would still make a better show
than anything the Firm has offered in
recent years.
But at best that would be only a
musicomedy. Perhaps the wisest thing to
do is simply to submit it as a period piece,
as May Hollinworth and her Metropoli-
tan Players did in their Reiby-plac©
theatre in Sydney. Presented perhaps
very much as the Elizabethans would
have seen it, with one synthetic tree rep-
resenting the forest of Arden, and scene
after scene flicking on without waste of
time, it made a charming entertainment,
carried along on the poetry, the feeling
of earth and forest, the gaiety and by the
obvious enjoyment of the actors. They
seemed to feel the play as a holiday from
everything except poetry, love and
laughter, and they communicated their
pleasure to the audience.
Rosalind (Ruth Rutter) at first seemed
too stern ; but, then, she is sternly dealt
with by the Duke at the start, and later
she warmed to the part admirably. The
melancholy Jaques, played with bilious
relish by Kevin Brennan, stole the show:
which was probably fair enough, for
Jaques, resignedly and amusedly loathing
everything in the forest, may very well
represent Shakspeare himself. In which
case, possibly with memories of the
country maidens of his youth, the play-
wright must have softened a little when
depicting the fascinatingly lumpish
Audrey ; who, as interpreted with joy by
Cathy Lloyd, would melt the heart of
any man who had ever been in the
country among cows, turnips and dairy-
maids.
Royal Art Society Exhibition.
First impressions, in art, as in other
things, are important. Walking into
David Jones’s Art Gallery, where the
Royal Art Society is holding an exhibi-
tion, a large watercolor —a flowerpiece—
by Margaret Coen, catches the eye;
vivid, rich, and, within the rich fullness
of the composition, delicate. Drooping
of flowers holds the eye, and their con-
trast,'flowers in full blaze, and a sumptu-
ous quality of the cloth at the bottom of
the picture gives weight and balance.
Other paintings, both watercolors and
oils, were, on the whole, disappointing.
Les Turnbull’s “Approaching Storm,
Penrith,” was a study of windswept sky,
a fine example of the artist’s developing
powers ; W. F. R. Richardson, with an
unambitious use of light and shade and
greens, reds and yellows, has made a
slight but, charming painting of a mare
and foal, and Kenneth Green’s “After-
noon, Hunter’s Hill,” is a warm study of
an old house, with a fleeting rose glow
and green and yellow trees, which has
the light lyrical touch which lifts the
familiar into the surprising.
Lance Solomon has a slight landscape
with the emphasis too strongly concen-
trated on design, to the neglect of Solo-
mon’s real poetic qualities; also “The
Black Rooster.” Subject, of course, is
important, as are preconceived ideas of
the fitness of artistic subjects. But if
fowls are not to appear too “backyardish”
they should, perhaps, be painted with a
view to their dramatic possibilities, with
emphasis on the jewelled eye, the serpent
neck, and the brilliant sheen of feathers.
And to do this effectively it would seem
necessary to paint them at close range,
as full-scale subjects, rather than as parts
of a fowlyard.
The Dark Glass.
As a Sydney newspaper critic has it,
the images in David Strachan’s paintings,
on view at the Macquarie Galleries, re-
semble those seen “as in a glass darkly.”
Inspecting the tenebrous greens and the
crepuscular blacks of “Evening,” “Ocean
Avenue,” “Elizabeth Bay Landscape,”
“Nocturne” and many others, one can
but agree. But the phrase needs elabora-
tion. “Ocean Avenue,” which was
bought by the N.S.W. National Art
Gallery, is sad and sombre and green,
and, in its darkness, has about it some-
thing of the haunting unreality of a faulty
negative. But the paint on the house
protrudes in a formidable, ungainly way
as though, to pursue the metaphor more
vigorously, the glass had become acci-
dentally clotted with paint.
Similarly, “The Sick Girl,”., a pallid
young woman sitting up in bed and in-
viting her death of cold by doing so with
a bare torso, is interestingly wan in con-
trast to her clothed friend, but a liberal
coating of paint makes her appearance
more war-like than wraith-like.
*****
Wandering round Burgos, the Alham-
bra, Toledo and Malaga, and gazing at
their donkeys, beggars and ragged Cabal-
leros with Lionel Lindsay at the Sedon
Galleries, Melbourne, one can’t help
wondering how much the distinguished
watercolorist’s appeal is aesthetic and
how much depends on his favorite sub-
ject-matter. The charm of the Spanish-
Moorish architecture is undoubted and
Lindsay’s eye goes infallibly to the most
picturesque examples. There is some
inner quality in “Malaga.” Technical
dexterity is the hallmark of most of the
others.
* * * *
An artist wh6 has submitted himself to
the test of a change of subject matter is
John A. Gardner, at Melbourne Athen-
aeum. Gardner is the man who went
caravaning with Battarbee in the Never-
Never and returned to give Melbourne
its first sight of the strange, alluring, often
ridiculous shapes and colors of the
central desert, with its plains and moun-
tains painted by Nature in the primary
colors and its spectral gums which looked
like the vegetable dreams of a neurotic.
Battarbee went back to teach Albert
Namatjira and start a Binghi renaissance
which must have astounded the master
himself. Gardner went in for farming
in the Western District. He is probably
a better painter now than he was then —
“The Sunlit Beach” has the of
sea, sand and wind in it and “By the
Carnarvon River” and “Scoria Pits,
Pomborneit” have atmosphere.
* * * *
For a South Australian there is
interest in Travis Webber’s oils at
Kozminsky’s, Melbourne. “Piccadilly
Valley,” “Summer at Happy Valley”
and Noarlunga and Norton’s Summit
conjure up pictures of the gentle
green hills of the Adelaide Ranges,
the long white roads laced across them,
the fruit-tree blossom and the inns, cot-
tages and stables of the old German
settlers who built in the lovely stone of
the district. Such associations give one
a warm feeling towards Mr. Webber’s
paintings and an indulgence towards any
shortcomings.
Mierowski.
Henryk Mierowski is the compleat
freak among visiting piano virtuosi in
that he is content quietly, even shyly, just
to sit at the piano and play. He isn’t
given to leonine head-shakings, to exag-
gerated hand-lifting, to dreamy swayings
or to savage frowns as bass chords are
struck with both hands.
He plays quite often with an air con-
templative, even detached. That he is
equipped at all points he demonstrated
at the opening of his Sydney season at
the Town Hall on Saturday night. Bach’s
Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue brought
out a strongly authoritative tone. In
particular the opening recitative was full
of dramatic intensity. His arpeggio in
this work was clearly incisive. Three
miniature sonatas of Scarlatti —in G
Minor, C Major and A Major—were of
bell-like lucidity despite the terrific
tempo. With Schumann’s Symphonic
Studies Op. 13, the pianist gave his best
work of the night—a beautiful melodic
line with a finely-controlled bass motive
lent rare excellence to this set of 12 vari-
ations on a simple lyric theme.
In a group of Chopin, including the
G Minor Ballade, the C Sharp Nocturne
Op. 27 No. 1, two mazurkas, the Waltz
in C Sharp Minor and the A Flat Polon-
aise, M. Mierowski played as might have
been expected of a compatriot of Chopin.
Combined in the gaiety of the Waltz, the
delicate tracery of the Nocturne and the
pronounced dancing measures of the
mazurkas and the Polonaise were the
hands of a technical master and the mind
of a poet.
Ninon Vallin.
In her third Sydney concert to a packed
house—evidently the word had got around
that the French soprano was indeed a
singer of rare artistry—Ninon Vallin
sang Schubert and Brahms in French. A
mortal blow to the purists, perhaps, and
probably few singers other than she
could have got away with it. Schubert’s
“La Bas” (on most programmes it
appears as “Wohin”) was a true “brook-
let singing from out a rocky cave.”
Strauss’s “Seranade” was pure liquid
gold.
A group of French songs, especially
two by Chausson and one of Fame’s,
was redolent of the salon. The soprano
launched into robustiousness with a
Carmen aria. The “Adieu” from
“Manon” was given its due meed of
lyrical warmth. Henri Penn again proved
what a strong pillar to a singer a really
fine accompanist can be.


(Paids lot tmo- ...
trwenf
Comn'
ConsistetM
with harci%
ammunitio
“Pistols at trwenf
of honour in roi|||
Many a fashioi|||
adversary over '=is
duelling pistol wpsl
able meeting
York and the
Wimbledon Coning
of the encounter is 1
in the duel, testifyii
grim but fashion;);
_ t tVie inaetal
trades d« ut J 4 machines are
resumed Shotgun sup pl V .
necessanh t he present
We are soon be
that we can
settled so rra ge oi SP°
produce a
ammunition- k yNOCH
. JSg
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOU SHOUT! AND IT'S
RED MILLRUM.
Saturday’s attendance at Randwick was very
satisfactory at 34,500 as compared with 36,200
on the corresponding day last year when the
roll-up included 4000-odd troops admitted free.
However, while club officials were able to view
proceedings in a rosy light, punters tound the
going extra tough, as it usually is at these
betwixt-season meetings.
A curiosity of this off-season racing is the
excessive importance attached in some quarters
to the form displayed—form which, in view of
the company, can only be regarded as mediocre
at the best. After cleaning up a near-maiden
field of two-year-old colts and geldings, whom
he beat by less than a length in slow time,
Marine Victory was hailed as a Derby
prospect. Frontal Attack, after winning the
first division of an eight-furlongs Novice, was
spoken of as a Melbourne Cup hope, and
some considered Immediate a likely thing for
the Dotpmben Ten Thousand after he had won
the Flying by a head.
Leaving Doomben out of it, Immediate’s
effort looked good form for Sydney in the
near future, though seven and eight furlongs
are likely to be more his meat than Saturday’s
six. Beginning slowly, the Siegfried gelding
’was ahead of only one horse at the half-mile
and, though he had moved up to fifth place,
still looked unlikely as they entered the straight.
He unwound' a rattling run from the Leger to
down Earl Pentheus in a photo.-finish. Aider-
man was a fair third in front of Cold Shower.
Tactician, who had looked the winner at the
distance but collapsed badly, was next. Ridden
by G. Weate, Immediate, with 9.3, was con-
ceding half a stone and upward to all but Cold
Shower (9.4).
Since she was second favorite at 7 to 2 for
the James Barnes Plate of 10 furlongs Lady
Marie had evidently not been abandoned by
supporters whom she had let down several
times recently. She justified their perseverance.
A change of riders may have done the trick,
W. Cook replacing H. Darke and riding a
perfect race to down consistent Fort Denison,
who had led from the mile to the distance.
Even-money favorite Crusader trailed the field
most of the trip, then finished fairly well into
third place. Possibly the slower pace of the
10-furlongs journey did not suit the Doncaster
runner-up.
In front or near it all the way, the promising
Royal Reward, who had previously been ridden
a less bustling type of race, just failed to see
out the seven furlongs of the Two-year-old
Handicap, going down to a strong challenge
by Marine Victory. The latter is a chestnut
colt by the imported Sea Tonic and from the
Peter Pan mare Red Wendy. Sea Tonic has
had two previous winners, Ozonian and Sea
Spartan, both bred and owned by Lionel Israel
of Segerihoe Stud; Marine Victory is raced by
Mrs, Israel.
A rather better bunch contested the Juvenile
Stakes for two-year-old fillies. In winning this
six-furlongs dash Nell Gwynne showed great
gameness—not surprising, since she is by Golden
Sovereign out of a Magpie mare, Sweet Maggie.
Also by Golden Sovereign and out of the once
very fast mare Gloriole, Captivate was second
and a bit stiff at that to be beaten by a nose.
Captivate looked home and hosed till she ran
wide nearing the post. The camera was also
called on for the minor placing, which went
to a coming winner in Eroica.
Another nose finish was that of the first
Novice, in which the New Zealand-bred Frontal
Attack (J. Thompson) just shaded the Hua
gelding Namesake, with Rotoiti only a neck
away third. The strongly-fancied Tyche finished
a fair fifth after losing all chance at the start.
Frontal Attack is by Battle Song, an Irish St.
Leger winner and a son of Spion Kop, thus
having the Carbine blood. Thompson had an
easier win in the second division of the Novice,
his mount, Dark Marne, getting there sevei'al
lengths ahead of Montrose and Even Time.
Yukon, Skymaster and others were veity
easily beaten in the Welter by Double Mint,
giving G. Podmore his second winner of the
afternoon. Far from handsome but a fair
galloper, Double Mint is a three-year-old geld-
ing and rather unique in that he is the only
get of his sire Double Birthday, who, now a
geldma, is still battling round country districts.
'** * *
Winning favorites were not much in evidence
at Flemington on Saturday, where attendance
was rather low for that course, but those who
failed to pick a winner may have spent the day
profitably by studying some of the Grand
National form revealed. Certainly followers
of the jumpers had the best of the day, with
the equal favorite Kenloof (R. Dean) landing
the Hurdle and old Tente (G. Sholl) justified
his favoritism in the Steeple.
Kenloof, Calawind and Hiatus were each at
fours for the Hurdle and John Masefield only
a half point longer. When the early leader
Esquire fell, Calawind was left in front to
lump his burden of 10.3 with more than half
the journey still to cover. He led them over
the final jump, but was immediately challenged
by Kenloof and Colebrook, and these went
on to fight out a great finish; Kenloof had
it by a neck, with Calawind six lengths further
back third. The performance of Colebrook,
a good type of jumper by The Buzzard, was
“What a thud he'd come if I slammed the brakes on suddenly!"
meritorious in that he conceded the winner
171 b.
Tente, a gelding by the Gainsborough stallion
Devonshire, landed the money in the Steeple,
but not without giving his numerous supporters
a thrill for their money. The handicapper made
a very accurate assessment in asking Tente
to concede 381 b. to the David gelding Biblical.
The pair of them battled head and head over
the final furlong and only the camera could
pick the inch or two separating them on the
post. Another lightweight, Satellite, after try-
ing to lead all the way, lasted it out to collect
third money.
Another fair National pointer was seen in
the performance of Illumination HI, Hall), a
David gelding who has been doing a lumper’s
preparation but contested and won well a flat
race —the 10-furlongs Kporlong Handicap. He
took charge with half the trip still to go and
saw the journey out though hard pressed at
the finish. His connections’ satisfaction with
the good form shown was probably rather
dampened by the fact that in the tight finish
he just pipped his much more strongly-fancied
stablemate Deen Devon; Ellipsis third.
Illumination started at 100 to 1 and paid
£32 9s. and £6 Bs. for five shillings each way
on the tote.
Quite the hottest favorite of the day was
Lungi, starting at 5 to 4 on in the field of 24
which contested the two-year-old event. So
keen was the demand that the books in an
effort to rake in a few odd shekels here and
there had a third of the field at 200 to 1 and
a further half-dozen at 100 to 1. It can be
said for Melbourne bookies that they aren’t
afraid to open their mouths when asked for
a quote about a rough ’un. Lungi never seemed
to get properly going. The Caithness filly
Braesomar ran another excellent race, but when
it came to the finish was no match for the very
promising Portofino gelding Star Port (S.
Ralph), who passed the post a couple of lengths
clear-, with Tumult third. A pity Star Port as
a gelding is ineligible for the Melbourne and
Sydney classics —he seems a likely one.
Following a bleeding attack at Moonee Valley
the previous Saturday, Thor (T. Unkovich) won
the Dingwell Welter, adding to the long list
of horses which have been observed to do like-
wise. Thor finished stoutly to just shade the
pacemaker Four Freedoms and Lugano. It
was a fine finish, with the fourth horse,
Delano, little more than a neck behind the
winner.
A former Sydney galloper, the Actor gelding
Panmure (G. Bougoure), won his first good
race in downing Canada and Hemlock over
the 14 furlongs of the Cardinia Handicap.
Hemlock proved not quite equal to the stiff
task set him in trying- to carry his equal top-
weight of 9st. in front throughout the long
journey.
* * * *
The champion South Australian two-year-old
Comedy Prince continued on his winning way
on Saturday, proving much too good for the
locals and a few visitors in the S.A. Sires’
Produce Stakes. The Powerscourt colt started
favorite, led all the way, beat Cherish by two
lengths with a further two lengths to Beau
Gem ’ and, clocking 1.26, equalled his own
• course record for seven furlongs. Evidently a
first-class colt, it will be interesting to see how
Comedy Prince goes against the best in the
eastern States.
Also at Morphettville Melbourne owner O. R.
Porter landed a good double, Black Law down-
ing Opera and Silurian in the Sir Willoughby
Norrie Handicap of 12 furlongs, while St. Fairy
repeated his success of last year by winning
the Jockey Club Handicap of six furlongs.
St. Fairy lumped 10.5 to down Penstol and
Ducal.
* * . * *
The Maharaja of Baroda looks like getting
some return from the 28,000 guineas he paid
for the yearling full brother to the Derby
winner Dante. Now bearing the odd name
of Sayajirao, which would choke most Sydney
bookies, the colt Won the Derby Trial Stakes
by six lengths and has become joint favorite
for the Derby to be run next month. The
other equal favorites are Tudor Minstrel and
his stablemate Blue Train, an unbeaten colt
who carries His Majesty’s colors. A win by
Blue Train would be extremely popular and
weight of small punters’ money will possibly
make him the outright favorite. Australian
jockey Edgar Britt will be on Sayajirao.
r * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):—
Three-year-old Novice: Beau Brummell, 1;
Sweep, 2; Ozonian, 3. Carlita Handicap:
Even Time, 1; Gracious, 2; Tyche, 3. Flying:
Cold Shower, 1; Earl Pentheus, 2; Dutchman,
3. Warwick May Handicap: Mentone, 1;
Spearex, 2; Concise, 3. High weight: Sky-
master, 1; Beau Pebble, 2; Montrose, 3. The
Two-year-old .Novice with over 80 entries will
probably run to two divisions, and Royal
Reward, Kardella, Captivate, Eroica, The Gaffer
and Caribbean, in that order, should be near
the money.
* * * *
Melbourne on Saturday night was full
of dazed football barrackers,’hoarse and
weary from a day of crazy upsets such
as are seldom seen on V.F.L. grounds.
It began at Hawthorn, where the despised
locals fell upon the once-mighty Rich-
mond and dusted them up to the tune of
16.11 —10.9. The astounded crowd, after
watching this, then learned that Geelong
was leading “Sowth” (Geelong won,
15.16-13.9) and that Carlton was belting
Essendon, 14.7 to 8.16. Footscray easily
disposed of North Melb., 17.18-11.13, and
Fitzroy piled up 19.18 to St. Kilda’s 7.14.
Meantime, at M.C.G., Melbourne capped
the lot by downing the unbeaten Colling-
wood by 15.5 to 9.16, the Melbourne
forward. Fanning, landing nine goals. It
put Carlton on top, dropped ’Wood to
third place, pushed Essendon out of the
“four" and let Footscray in. No wonder
the visiting Americans thought the place
had been stricken dumb.
* * * *
Manly beat Randwick, 27-11, putting
itself at the head of the Rugby
Union ladder, in a hard game. Rand-
wick’s cover defence prevented the scores
from mounting higher, and Slattery,
Randwick’s small and fast winger, stopped
Easts time and again. West beat
North, 16-15, Gordon beat Parramatta,
19-12, , Drummoyne beat University,
25-18, and East had an easy 27-0 victory
over Eastwood.
* * * *
The South African Soccer team walked
over Queensland, 10-1, at Brisbane. Next
Saturday they play the Second Test at
the same address, the Australians cap-
tained by centre-forward Reg Date.
« * * *
, The All Blacks, due in Australia next
month, will be strengthened by R. W. H.
Scott, W. Argus, M. M. Goddard, J. B.
Smith, F. Allen, J, C. Kearney, J. G. J.
Simpson, L. A. Grant, N. Thornton and
K. D. Arnold, all from the Kiwis, the
New Zealand Army team which was
almost as famous as Freyberg’s Army.
* # * *
Always a grand little scrapper, Eddie
Miller disposed of his first opponent in
Britain, Johnny McManus, by k.o. in the
third round. It was Scot v. Scot, Miller
also having originally hailed from Cale-
donia stern and wild, and hence being
held entitled for a crack at the British
fedder title. It’s a long time since
British heavies were much good, but the
little men are different, so it might be as
well to look on the Miller-McManus
scrap as a successful try-out and leave
the whoops till later. Even so, it will
take a good one to topple Eddie.
* * * *
By better boxing Billy Rainsbury
(9.12|) beat Ees Fuller (9.9) at Leich-
hardt, but Fuller’s hard-fought finish, as
so often happens, influenced referee Art
Mawson and Fuller got it on points.
The customers said dreadful things and
the customers were right.
* * * *
Ex-amateur champion Johnny Blaine
(9.5 H put up a great show in his first
professional engagement against “Young”
Arthur (9.9) at Melbourne Stadium but
failed to overtake Arthur’s early lead.
Arthur used the Patrick variety of short,
weighty punches, but Blaine still had the
strength to be fighting back over the last
few rounds.


HOW TO HAVE ENOUGH
MONEY
for the family's welfare
That a man should dream of the fortune he
will make before he dies is all to the good. It is
more practical for him, however, to make plans
through membership in the A.M.P. Society so that
the money will definitely be available.
It is a good idea for a man to make a statement
of the money that will be needed. Something
like this:
(1) To pay off any mortgage on your home £
(2) To clean up bills owing at your death £
.(3) To provide enough income for your
wife and family to carry on
(a) temporarily ...... £ .'
(b) permanently £
(4) To provide for your children’s
education i
Total amount required £
Less amount of present policies £
Additional money needed £ *
Through the A.M.P. a man can guarantee that
the money will be available. He can arrange that
the policies will protect his family and, at the
same time, his own old age.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office that an experienced
representative of the Society call and explain.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman. Sydney Osmond, General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
nm
3E3SES!
mJLBi ai ea tB
at mat &
ii : mm m at rsi a
y.<
mm.
m
a
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman)
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX;
H. NORMAN POPE;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT,
M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
Manager.
Avoid the Pitfalls
of Home-Made Wills
A Husband Can Unwittingly Void
a Gift to His Wife
HATEVER your wishes you should have
them clearly expressed in your Will
drawn by a Solicitor. There are many pitfalls
for the inexperienced which can defeat their
wishes.
By witnessing a Will a husband would auto-
matically void any gift thereunder to his wife
—thus a Testator should not permit a son-in-
law to witness his Will even though he be not
a beneficiary thereunder. By so doing he would
automatically void a gift to his (the son’s) wife.
Be guided by a Solicitor in the drawing of your
Will and consider carefully the choice of your
Executor upon whose trustworthiness and ability
your beneficiaries will be entirely dependent.
If you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor and Trustee you will
be ensuring that the terms of your Will shall be
faithfully carried out, and you will be ensuring
to your dependents a courteous and sympathetic
service.
Call or write for a copy of the Company’s
booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It de-
scribes the Company’s service and the charges.
For example:—•
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
33-39 HUNTER STREET*, SYDNEY’
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED
£66,000,000 (THE AVERAGE ESTATE BEING LESS THAN £10,000).
Southern and Riverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, Gurwood St., Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: F. X. B. Thomas, Queensland Insurance
Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Representative: J. L. McElroy, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Sugar at Geneva
The Australian sugar industry is fear-
ful of the future if the International
Trade Organisation, now meeting at
Geneva (B, 9/4/’47), adopts the draft
charter for establishment of that organi-
sation in its present form. This draft
charter is an intricate and ambitious
document, sprinkled with international
idealism and draped on a skeleton pre-
pared by “many persons of competence
and experience in the different depart-
ments and agencies of the United States
Government.”
In its present form it aims, among
other things, at ultimate elimination of
(1) Imperial preferences, (2) the Aus-
tralian embargo on imports of sugar
from black-labor countries, and (3) main-
tenance of a higher price in the domestic
than in the export market. These things
underpin the structure of the Australian
sugar industry. Destroy or eliminate
them, wholly or in part, and collapse
of the industry is immediately threatened,
a risk which the country cannot afford
to take.
Australia’s sugar industry rests on one
of the pillars of national policy, namely
White Australia, which Dr. Evatt re-
cently declared in the House of Reps, to
be “absolutely basic to the economy
and politics of this country.” Moreover,
the industry is associated with such vital
considerations as the population and
defence of our north-east tropic coast-
line. One of the conditions upon which
Queensland entered the Federation was
that its sugar industry would be ade-
quately protected against competition
from countries employing cheap black
labor. In Queensland blackbirding had
ceased, and the repatriation of kanakas
was completed by 1913. Local produc-
tion of sugar overtook home consumption
in 1922, and then, in the early 1930’5, the
U.S. Smoot-Hawley tariff drew members
of the British Commonwealth together in
a system of Imperial trade preferences.
This system, consummated at Ottawa in
1932, is a maze of fiscal arrangements
whereby Empire countries admit one an-
other’s goods at lower tariff rates than
are imposed upon the same class of pro-
ducts originating elsewhere.
So far as sugar is concerned, the pre-
ference is worth about £3 15s. a ton to
Empire producers. This advantage led
to expansion of Australian sugar produc-
tion, which pre-war was normally 800,000-
odd tons of raws p.a. Local consumption
is now a bit more than half that figure.
The cane belt runs for some 1300 miles
from the Clarence River (N.S.W.) to just
north of Cairns (Q.). It includes more
than 9000 cane farms, averaging about
50 acres each, whose aggregate value is
put at £32 millions. Annual production,
which is affected by seasonal conditions,
is normally about six million tons of
cane, which is turned into raw sugar
worth £l3 million f.o.b. ports of ship-
ment by 35 mills employing assets valued
“What combination, Mr. Feathersbury? I've been
using a bobby-pin
at approximately £2O million. And ship-
ment of sugar has been largely respon-
sible for opening up half a dozen good
ports in North Queensland, four of them
equipped for use by overseas vessels
and the other two to accommodate Inter-
State steamers. In Queensland over
200,000 people, about one-fifth of the
State’s population, are dependent upon
the industry for support. According to
census returns, population of the sugar
areas of N.Q. increased by over 87 p.c.
during the 12 years to 1933, whereas the
increase for Australia as a whole was
only 22 p.c. over the same period. And
all this has meant much to the rest of the
Australian economy, because it has helped
to stimulate demand and production over
a wide range of goods and services.
And, all things considered, the Aus-
tralian public has not paid too high a
price for its sugar, nor are those in the
industry making fat profits out of it. The
retail selling price of fines was cut by
id. in 1923, and by another id. in 1933,
reducing it to 4d. a pound, at which
figure it has remained. This is now lower
than the Australian equivalent of selling
prices in most other countries, includ-
ing the U.S., U.K., Canada, S. Africa,
India and Sweden. As for millers and
growers, their combined overall profit
on capital and reserves combined for the
period 1936-38 was approximately 5 p.c..
prior to income-tax, and is considerably
lower today.
If the policy of “free play of market
forces” —buying in the cheapest market —
had been followed, sugar from low-
living standard black-labor countries
would have been imported into Australia,
and the “white” sugar industry, with its
high standard of living (the only one of its
kind in the world), would not have sur-
vived. Countries chiefly affected by Aus-
tralia’s rise as a sugar exporter are Cuba,
Philippines, San Domingo, Java, Peru and
Brazil.
We know the facts and some of the
targets. What we lack is knowledge of
the policy the Government proposes
to follow at Geneva on this vital ques-
tion of sugar. One thing that should be
made plain is that Australia will agree to
1.T.0. proposals only if competitors
operate with a labor force enjoying
standards of living which approximate our
own.
Commenting on the compulsory trans-
fer of accounts of semi-governmental
bodies from the trading banks to the
Commonwealth Bank, the National Bank
of Australasia in its May “Summary of
Australian Conditions” says:
In some quarters the proposal to im-
plement Section 48 may be regarded as a
direct attack on the trading banks, but no
alarm need be felt on this score. Any loss
of business will, of course, be regretted,
but the strongest regrets felt would be at
the compulsory breaking of ties with old
and trusted friends.
The Government’s action in this matter,
which serves no worth-while financial or
economic purpose, is petty and savors of
the clock-like working of a stubborn and
inflexible mind.
* * * *
Samuel Montagu and Co.’s annual bul-
lion circular estimates world production
of gold in 1946 at about 25,000,0000 z., or
slightly more than the 1945 total. Of this
output the Empire’s share was 68.8 p.c.
as against 70.5 p.c. in 1945. Silver yield
from the principal producing countries
of the Western Hemisphere showed a
considerable decline in 1946. Total pro-
duction of Mexico, United States, Central
and South America and Canada is esti-
mated at 107,100, OOOoz, as against
132,000,000 in 1945.
* * * *
A large gold deposit is believed to exist
at the top of Norway. Here bedrock is
said to be of much the same type as in
Canada the yellow metal has been
found in morains (remnants of rock for-
mations associated with the Ice Age).
Gold was found in the Finmark province
three years before the war, and work has
been resumed there.
* * * *
A Westralian Government publication
reckons that nearly 7,000,0000 z. of silver,
mostly a by-product in gold recovery, has
been produced in that State. Native gold
there averages about 10 p.c. silver.
In the north all the lead ores, except those
on the Northampton field, near Gerald-
ton, are argentiferous. So far the bulk
of the silver produced in the West has
come from Kalgoorlie mines.
* * * 9
Some day Taupo, Maoriland’s biggest
lake and storage basin for the Waikato
hydro-electric scheme, will be feeder to
a chain of lakes on a stretch of under
100 miles, and will hold the key to in-
dustrial activity and prosperity in the
North Island —unless the atom age out-
dates all present forms of power. But
Maorilanders are not happy about
the prospect of a gigantic power chain
hitched to uncertain Taupo. They’d feel
more comfortable if a mountain chain,
instead of a small group of snow-capped
peaks, stood guard over their main water-
shed. It’s becoming an increasingly
anxious question every year as Taupo
shrinks to low summer levels to keep
Arapuni, first power station on the river,
operating at full capacity. Next in the
chain will be Karapiro, and after that,
perhaps, half a dozen others until, if the
blueprint experts arfe right, Waikato will
deliver nearly a million units of power.
That’s the hope; but it depends on
Taupo.


Olympic
TYRES ARE PRODUCED IN AUSTRALIA’S
MOST MODERN TYRE FACTORY
...............
/
7 No;
V- A
n
m
r*<4
m
i
I ■
'7
from the finest
raw materials
by skilled
Australians!
A product Of
rue Olympic tym
™L B *H CO. CTO.
Keep on
Buying Savings
Certificates and
Stamps (
THE A C.A.
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.
★
ASSETS EXCEED £-2,500,000
' m ,\T - '< ■*- . .
THE A.C.A. for SECURITY
A.C.A. POLICIES are GOOD POLICIES
★
A.C.A. COMPANY LIMITED
A.C.A. BUILDING
66 King Street, Sydney
Call, Write or Ring . Telephone 8X2165.
BRANCH OFFICES IN ALL STATES.
D. J. MOONEY,
Managing Director.
Wool and America
A general survey:
Australian sheepmen are turning an anxious
ear north-east, whence come sounds of an
American campaign to subsidise domestic
growers against wool imports and to clap an
additional 50 p.c. tariff on “foreign” wools
whenever the U.S. Secretary for Agriculture
thinks imports threaten home growers. This
could be serious for Australia, whose ex-
ports of wool to the U.S.A. have jumped from
17,000,0001 b. in 1939 to 168,000,0001 b. last
year. They will be higher still for the current
year if present trends are maintained.
The war put Italy, France, Belgium, Germany
and Japan out of the business. The first three are
striving to get back into wool-manufacture, but
shortage of coal is limiting output. It will be
some time before Germany and Japan are con-
suming Australian wool again on the pre-war
scale —Japan is better placed than Germany.
The increased use of wool by America is
enabling Australia to obtain the dollars neces-
sary for imports of motors, petrol, oils, tobacco,
tools and so forth.
The plan for subsidy and penal import tax
has by no means unanimous support in
America. Boston “Herald” calls it “madness”
and thinks it might give wool a crippling blow
in the fight against artificials. Cotton interests
are apprehensive lest it bring reprisals from
wool-growing countries that import American
cotton. Nervous, too, are American firms mak-
ing woollen clothing from Australian wool —
their business is thriving and growing.
The U.S. already imposes a tariff averaging
65 p.c. on outside wool. This has proved in-
sufficient to bolster up the local industry. S. J.
Pauly, of Montana, president of the National
Woolgrowers’ Association, told the Agricultural
Committee of the House of Representatives in
March that sheep-raising was a “rapidly dying
industry.”
Just before the war the U.S. produced
from 72 p.c. to 92 p.c. of all its wool re-
quirements. Today less than 20 p.c. of
home-grown wool is being used by Ameri-
can woollen manufacturers The ratio
will increase during 1947 in favor of foreign
wools and, unless remedial measures are
taken, practically no domestic wool will
be used in American wool products by
1950 Sheep numbers declined from
50.000. in 1942 to 32,500,000; wool
production from 460,000,0001 b. in to
300.000. ; but American manufactur-
ing consumption has risen from a pre-war
annual figure of 600,000,0001 b. to over
1.000.
Pauly sees the British war-time purchase
scheme and the subsequent J.O. plan as the
villain of the piece; J. 0., he says, will con-
trol quantity, quality and prices of .the huge
wool clips and stockpile of three British
Dominions which together produce two-thirds
of the world’s available apparel wools.
“The principal market now and in the imme-
diate future for those wools is the United
States, and it is cheaper to grow wool in all
the British Dominions than in the United
States.”
Pleading that nearly all the land in the 13
western States and Texas that grow 71 p.c.
of America’s sheep is fit only for stock grazing,
and would go out of agricultural production
if the sheep industry failed, Pauly asked for
(a) an established comparable price for wool
and lambs, (b) a declared “support” price at
not less than 90 p.c. of the comparable price
until December, 1948, and (c) permission to
sell domestic wool at less than the parity or
comparable price and in competition with
foreign wool.
About the time Pauly addressed the House,
Eugene Ackerman, of the American Wool
Council, was telling a Virginia association of
retail clothiers that the national income of
Americans was now 170,000,000,000 dollars
annually and rising, and that Americans were
buying and would continue to btry more high-
grade clothing, though “wanted fabrics and
styles were in short supply.”
Australian growers have no wish to profit at
the expense of American growers and would
have no objection to a fixed home price for
the American product. It is clear that, for the
next few years at least, America is to be a
far more important factor in world wool prices
than ever before.
A rocketing rise of £18,000,000 in
Maoriland’s exports last year lifted the
total to a record of £99,406,000, far above
the 1942 peak of £81,536,000. Britain’s
share was £69,156.000 (69.6 p.c.) as against
£46,689,000 (80.4'p.c.) in 1939. U.S.A.
ranked second, with £9,700,000 (9.8 p.c.),
against £2,847,000 (4.9 p.c.) in 1939.
Australia’s share was £3,627,000 (3.6 p.c.),
close to its pre-war average, but above
the value of £2,256,000 seven years ago.
Canada took £2,689,000 (2.7 p.c.), against
£964,000 (1.7 p.c.) pre-war. On the im-
port side, U.S.A. was closest to a balance
in trade with the Dominion, the figure of
£11,793,000 being 16.5 p.c. of aggregate
imports of £71,634,000. Australia’s
£10,420,000 (14.5 p.c.) of M.L. purchases
again gave a lopsided balance in Com-
monwealth favor. Britain’s proportion,
£34,195,000 (47.7 p.c.), was fairly steady
compared with pre-war, but showed a big
recovery from low war-time levels.
» * # «
Among the most keenly sought shares
in Melbourne recently have been those
of local retail stores. Average return
from this section is a shade better than
4 p.c. Lowest yields are shown by Myers,
Foy and Gibsons and Leviathan at about
3| p.c., highest is from London Stores
at 5 p.c. with Mutual Store and Snows
Men’s Wear a fraction lower. Ball and
Welch, Buckleys, Georges - (if they could
be bought) and Mantons all return a
shade under 4f p.c. Disruption of city
trade by transport hold-ups and engineers
strikes has yet to be fully felt; most
chairmen have warned shareholders of
the need for increasing turnover to meet
rising costs while gross profit margins
are fixed.
* * * :k
.Demand for shares in Noyes Bros.
(Melbourne) has sent the price from
around 50s. to 595. 6d., only a few hundred
changing hands. Net tangible backing is
265. 4d. The co, and its subsidiaries,
which hold British and American agencies,
handle electrical goods of all kinds, lift-
ing, mining, factory and engineering
equipment, non-ferrous metal products,
etc., and certain classes of sporting goods.
Since conversion to a public co. in 1936,
several subsidiaries, which are giving a
good account of themselves, have been
added, and new capital was called for in
1943—33 for 100 shares held at par.
For the four years to 1941 the div. was
steady at 14 p.c., and for the next five
years at 12 j p.c. Profit rate since 1942
nas been 18, 21.6, 16.8, 16 and 18.5 p.c.
* * . * *
Mayne Nickless, Ltd., and its predeces-
sors have been delivering Melbourne’s
luggage and moving its furniture for the
last 75 years. In a reconstruction in
1934 intangibles were rubbed out of the
account, pref. div. arrears cancelled and
the pref. shares converted into ords., and
shareholders have received divs. averag-
ing m p.c. over the last ten years. Last
financial year, 16} p.c. was paid from
profits equal to 26.48 p.c. on the £47,000
of capital. Last new issue was one-for-
four at par, in November, 1945. At
31s. the f.-p. 10s. shares, covered by
16s. 9d. in net tangibles, return 5.2 p.c,
on the basis of last year’s distribution.
V * * #
Newspaper operating costs in Maori-
land have climbed to new high levels, said
Edward Anderson, acting-chairman of N .Z.
Newspapers, Ltd., at the annual meeting.
Newsprint prices had risen thr6e times in
12 months to £43 a ton, against £2O pre-
war, and newsprint scarcity was restricting
publications both in circulation and' size.
Therefore advertisers must reckon on
continued severe rationing of space. Lack
of plant was another obstacle. The co.
was still waiting for British manufacturers
to begin building a printing press ordered
more than two years ago. Labor uncer-
tainty was a big handicap, margins be-
tween skilled and unskilled rates of pay
were being whittled down, and the pur-
chasing power of the pound was still
shrinking. But some day conditions must
become more normal, then costs and
prices would recede. So cos. had to give
attention to reserves. By adding £30,000
to its lay-by, half of it to cover machinery
obsolescence, the co. had lifted reserves
to £140,000.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Two-tooth”: Brumby, offsider to the
cook at the shearing shed, was deputising
for his No. 1, who had decided that coping
with a hangover was an all-day job.
Knowing that some sort of a sweet was
expected with the evening meal, he es-
sayed a pudding of the sinker variety.
Previously, Brumby’s culinary duties had
been limited to spud-peeling, and the
sodden mass that resulted from his efforts
bore ample testimony to his ignorance.
Fearing the sarcastic comments of the
hungry shearers, he shovelled the mess
into a sugar-bag and doggedly tried again.
The second attempt yielded results little
better than the first, but tempus was
fugitting, and Brumby would have to
stand or fall by the second pudding.
With the first course over the pudding was
hacked up and placed before the men.
After tasting the first spoonful a wiry
shearer banged the spoon on the table.
“Hell! What do you call this mess?” he
shouted. “I’ll bet a week’s wages that no-
body could cook a pudding worse than
this if they tried to! ” Brumby’s face
hardened ; he walked to the corner, re-
turned with the sugar-bag and dumped
his first masterpiece in front of the epi-
cure, “Put up your money, mister,” he
said ; “this is my nomination! ”
* * * *
“Naturala”; I fancy that “Atrax” (B.
23/4/’47) is ovferoptimistic of the survival
chances of Australian native ants. They
certainly will survive as long as the
aridity of the interior of our continent
keeps settlement at bay, but every foot
that man takes over for home-building
and cultivation means their progressive
elimination. Twenty years ago, when I
cleared my quarter-acre on the outskirts
of Perth, the virgin soil swarmed with
native ants, even to tiny colonies that
found housing in the empty seed eyes of
last season’s banksia cones. Today not
one of those ants can be found. The
ground still swarms, but with Argentines
that have wiped out all competitors' In
the elimination of the native species,
which included half a dozen kinds of
bulldogs? fighting ability and aggressive-
ness, quoted by “A.,” seemingly didn’t
count. The natives probably were
starved out; their leisurely methods of
food-gathering couldn’t compete with the
scurrying eagerness of the imported
myriads.
“Pop”: Not only are ants unable to
match man’s use of tools (B. 30/4/’47)
—they can’t compete with even the young
of the species Homo sapiens in the search
for food. Like most children of her age,
my small daughter, 2} summers, is a
complete scavenger. Leaves, stones and
handfuls of rich brown earth all seem to
gravitate to her rosebud mouth, and
the pup, an unusually good-natured
hound, often waits indulgently while she
has first gnaw at his bones. The other
day she observed an ant scurrying along
the concrete path, bearing home a crumb
of bread several sizes larger than itself.
Observing this, the young vulture paused
in her stride, murmured “Ooh!” picked
up the struggling insect, removed the
crumb from its grip, swallowed the morsel
and replaced a puzzled and no doubt
indignant ant in its tracks. Whereupon
both parties continued on their scaveng-
ing way.
* * *
“E. 2”: The bloke from the merino
country viewed the neglected farm with
calculating eyes, and his thoughts on the
bramble and bracken, broken-down
fences and the morass between the river
and the lagoons weren’t apparent till he
spoke. “I’ll give y’ y’r price f’r this,” he
said at last. “Bit o’ rubbish t’ clean up
here, o’ course, but I’ll be makin’ plenty
orf it as soon as I get a mob of woollies
in. Still, I don’t know why y’ class it
as cow country, seein’ that it’s ideal f’r
sheep. Y’ know, I never saw so many
rabbits in me life —at least a hundred t’
the acre, countin’ the ones y’ don’t see.
Well, it takes as much £eed f’r five rabbits
as one jumbuck, so i’ll be able t’ run
20 head t’ the acre when I git the bunnies
cleaned up. There ought t’ be a for-
tune in that.”
$ * * *
“Exmed”: While subscribing to prac-
tically everything that “H. Horseman”
(B, 23/ 4/ ’47) says on the goanna-snake
combat myth, it would be unwise to
dogmatise that any drug taken through
the mouth would fail to counteract a
venom injected into the veins. Consider
morphia. As a subcutaneous injection
administered by the hypodermic needle
it subdues pain. But it is also effective
taken as a drug, and in the form of opium
inhaled as a vapor. And there are others.
Chaulmoogra oil, used by Hindoos for
ages as a palliative for leprosy, was taken
by the mouth; though few were able to
benefit by it owing to its nauseous effects.
Nowadays it is administered, with con-
siderable success, as an intra venal‘injec-
tion. So one sees that, after all, there
isn’t such a vast gap between the stomach
and the 'doodstream.
* * * *
'“Esk D.”: An hour before sunset the
long cove with the sad expression stalked
to Barkley’s cowyard, where Hettie and
the old man were doing the milking, and
draped himself over the top rail, Barkley
eyed him warily. “What do you want
’ere?” he growled. “About Hettie”
began the visitor nervously. “Now, don’t
come pesterin’ me ’bout Hettie,” Barkley
bellowed. “Now, look ’ere, George,”
pleaded the long fellow. “I know we
“Hey, you two , cut the bedtime story short — I'm on early shift
tomorrow !”
ain’t bin sich good neighbors. Without
mentionin’ names, I’ve got a pretty good
idea you know who pinched* y’r roan
steer an’ sold it t’ the butcher, jist as
well as I do the mis’rable cow who
poisoned me dawg. But what’s past is
gorn, an’ I reckon now’s the time f’r us
t’ be friendly an’ sociable f’r the sake o’
the neighborhood.” “Well, seein’ y’re
man enough t’ come ’ere an’ apolergise,
Joe, we might as well be friends,” Bark-
ley said. “An’ let bygones be bygones.
Now, ’bout Hettie —she’s risin’ 43 an’ I’ll
give y’ me consent ’ere an’ now t’ save
time in y’r arrangements f’r gittin’ spliced.
An’ we’ll call everything square if y’ give
me a tenner f’r the roan steer.” With
•a hollow groan Joe detached himself from
the cowyard fence and mooched off home,
completely forgetting his mission as a
committeeman to find out if Hettie was
available to help with the catering for
the hospital ball.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: The most prominent
trait I have observed in the gecko (B.
7/5/’47) is his refusal to take anything
seriously. Ridiculing Newton’s Law, the
lizard can perform horizontal leaps
along the ceiling, landing and taking off
in an ‘inverted position. One night a
gecko playboy, for the edification of his
lady, stepped on to the revolving disc of
my gramophone during one of the nightly
recitals which the couple regularly
attended. During the few mad moments
in which I was stopping the instrument
he stuck like a Skuthorpe. His fickle
consort fled in horror at his drunken gait
when he dismounted, but next night, with
a new charmer, he was waiting for me
to start the machine at the regular hour.
In his horseplay the little humorist quite
frequently sheds his tail unit. Nature
often duplicates in renewing the part,
with the result that he sports a bifur-
cated extremity of deceptively forebod-
ing appearance. Malays, who hail the
twin-tailed gecko as a lucky house mas-
cot, sometimes produce the desired dupli-
cation by crude but effective Surgery,
which does not seem to dampen the
chirpy litle fellow’s spirits.
* * * *
“Maya”; The most reasonable ex-
planation of those immense masks on
Easter Island (B. 23/4/’47) is that they
were carved and erected when the island
was a much greater land mass than it is
now. For not only does the inquirer have
to conjure up a large and dense popula-
tion, but one capable of quarrying out
the necessary blocks of stone, carving the
statues and conveying the immense
masses to the elevated erection sites.
Populations of less than a million did not
accomplish such things. Again, such
masks represent a definite stage in human
evolution, the period of the king-priest
cult, developed in Egypt in the pyramid,
in the immense statues of Rameses and
others ; in Mesopotamia in the ziggurat
temple mound; among the Aztecs in the
temple pyramid again ; among the Mayas
in temple pyramids, grotesque statuary
and pools of virgin sacrifice. Such king-
priest cults arrived only when a cultured
few ruled over dense masses of unlearned
workers, mostly agricultural, though not
necessarily slaves. Thus Easter Island
may be the surviving mountain top of a
submerged continent. To balk at the
idea of such a massive subsidence is
merely to fail to realise just how much
up-and-down movement the crust of the
earth has been subjected to,
* * * *
“Bugs”: When ground lice are on the
nlbve in W.Q. they will clean up a garden
in a they bore into the soft sap
of plants arid eat them out to a hollow
shell, leaving them standing, to wilt and
to die. I’ve seen the lice cross a
bore drain from a bore flowing 300,000
gallons a day, with water almost at boil-
ing point. The loss was frightful; but
those mites made a bridge with the dead
bodies over which the army could pass
to further depredations. The only thing
which seems to eat them, barring the
abos, is the carney lizard. But there
aren’t enough carnies in Queensland to
dent the edges of a real swarm of ground
lice,
* * * *
“Te Cannibal”: Kendall was not of
Scottish extraction (B. 2/4/’47), unless on
his mother’s side. Grandpa Kendall was
bora in North Thorsby, Lincolnshire, and
was one of the first three lay missionaries
to risk a Maori oven in 1814. He was
the mission schoolmaster, but fell out
with his superior, Samuel Marsden,
through trading muskets with his parish-
ioners. Marsden didn’t like this much, but
liked even less Kendall’s rather too free
association with the young ladies of the
Kainga, and he was finally dismissed
from the Church Missionary Society. In
the meantime he had taken Holy Orders
and did some converting on his own
account. He also went into the rum busi-
ness, conducting both enterprises in the
same building. In 1825 he spent two
years in Valparaiso at his old job of
school-teaching, then returned to New
South Wales, where Governor Darling
gave him a land grant at Ulladulla in
consideration of his services in Maori-
land.
* « * •
“Gravelsnatcher”: Residents of a
Perth suburb are amazed at the endur-
ance of a cat which lived in the bush for
five months with a milk-tin jammed
firmly over its head. The bottom of the
tin had been removed —otherwise it
wouldn’t have survived a week —so appar-
ently it subsisted on what it could reach
with its tongue through the tin.
Kangarooing out from Toodyay (W.A.)
one afternoon I struck two com-
parable cases. A kookaburra which
had escaped from captivity was im-
prisoned in a mudhole. Can’t say how
it travelled the distance with its wing
feathers clipped—the minimum distance
would be 20 miles—but it had somehow
trailed its wings in the mud, and couldn’t
rise. We rinsed it, plucked out the stumps
of amputated feathers, and watched it
hop blithely away, game to face any odds
until growing wing feathers put it air-
worthy again. The other case was an
old wether. Actuated no doubt by a
worthy desire to release some politicians
for war service, it had sought to ease
someone’s Parliamentary duties by grow-
ing the wool over its eyes. It was as blind
as the rank and file of a Commo-bossed
union, but, more intelligent, it had con-
trived to subsist solely by its own efforts,
and it didn’t resist our attempts to re-
introduce it to the light. By the way it
bounded off when we let it go it had evi-
dently just passed a resolution to place
itself for ever beyond the possibility of
further contact with contagious human
stupidity.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It had been a hard
game and- Undowangie were three points
behind Walpebool with a minute to go
when Mat, lifting his 14 stone in the air
like a bird, pulled down a towering mark
30 yards out from the goal. As ruck and
backs ran into the goal mouth and Mat
walked steadily back for his kick, the
silence of suspense and expectation fell
upon the watching crowd. Mat eyed the
distance and the man on his mark, gave
the ball a heft into position in his hands
and ran for the kick just as the pregnant
silencg was broken by an excited female
voice. “Oh, if he kicks a goal I’ll kiss
him!” Normally Mat could kick 60
yards, straight and true, but Undowangie
lost that match by three points.
* * * •
“X.E.D.”: There’s a steep rise behind
Peddle’s house, and on top of the spur
a good belt of standing timber. So for
firewood or posts he has a stout wire
cable from a tree at his woodheap to
another on the spur. The method is to
drive two staples in log or post, fasten a
short sling of number-eight wire and let
’er rip. Dry logs don’t need much axe-
work after bashing the tree below, and
posts survive so long as they can be per-
suaded to arrive broadside on.
* * * *
“Horseface”; “Horseless Horseman”
on the science of getting a handout on
the track (B. 7/5/’47) reminds me of a
lamb-marker we had on Tunnenburra.
His infallible method was to knock at
the door, and, when the sun-dried matron
of 40 or upwards appeared, take off his
hat and say, with a respectful smile:
“G’day, Miss.. Is your mother at home?”
The subtle compliment, he maintained,
never failed to enrich his nosebag. When
times wpie hard he used to creep into a
fowlhouse at night, hold an open gunny-
sack with one hand and with the other
shove a lighted candle under the beaks
of a couple of the plumpest occupants
of the roost. Unconscious, they would
drop into the bag without a squawk.
♦ % * * *
“Bufo”: Just as the approach of winter
is reducing the mosquito and sandfly pests
about which the silly ratepayers maxe so
much annual uproar Brisbane’s City
Fathers are being bothered with a new
one. This time it is dingoes, which are
attacking cattle, killing calves, and raid-
ing poultry in the Moggill district, less
than 15 miles from the once-£l-million
City Hall itself. As the matter seems
to be beyond the powers of the municipal
dog-catcher, and dingoes don’t come
under the dog-licensing regulations, the
response of the Fathers was not cordial.
An appeal to the Lands Department, on
whose Forestry Reserve the canine raiders
breed, was met by a demand that the
complainers destroy dingoes on their own
properties. Countered with the infor-
mation that the department was respon-
sible for breeding the pests, it promised
1000 baits left over from the recent air-
scattering operations in the North. As
they cannot use these without risking
their own dogs Moggill farmers foresee a
lively time ahead when winter stimulates
dingo appetites.
* * * *
“The O.D”; Yes, it’s me and I want
to know more about that cove who was
confined to bed and worrying about his
lambing ewes (B. 7/5/’47). He wanted a
bloke to do the morning rounds but
reckoned it wasn’t much use having one
whom his own dog wouldn’t obey, the
dog being necessary to find the ewes “in
that scrubby paddock.” “X.E.D.” is
working on the theory that lambing
ewes are like calving cows, i.e., take
their newly-born offspring off and hide
them, which they don’t. And no sensible
sheep nurse takes a dog with him when
inspecting lambing ewes.
MAY IN THE DANDENONGS.
Today in the Dandenongs the white mists,
rolling through
The gullies and foothills, dissolve and are not
built up anew.
See! Donna Buang in the distance blue as a
grape is blue.
Closer down in the orchard, the blunt mush-
rooms unfold,
Spreading their pink umbrellas over the brown
mould,
And the gay wings of rosellas flash in the
morning- gold.
I hear the low-toned gossip and guess at the
things they say
As they plunder the scarlet rowans or swing
• from a hazel spray;
Fruit and seed and berry they gather—nuts in
May.
The Sylvan Dam is a mirror like that which
. hung on the wall
In Grimm’s old fairy story. From dawn to
evenfall
She tells the hills, the skies and the trees who
is fairest all.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Plum”: The human race, I’ve con-
cluded, plagiarises about 90 per cent,
of its behavior from the animal world.
Take the ant-like swarm that, surges
“There she blows!”
through the city about 5 p.m., for in-
stance. Another, more poignant example
came my way when I noticed an ani-
mated piece of fuzzy rope about a yard
long, progressing steadily along the bot-
tom of a concrete storm-water channel.
On closer inspection this proved to be
a procession of nearly 33 woolly brown
caterpillars moving along slowly, head
to tail, with just the same air of hopeless
futility that hangs about the average
tobacco queue. As a further 1 experiment,
I moved one of them a few inches out
of line. The rearward bunch accelerated
and hurriedly closed up the gap, while
the removee edged himself anxiously
back into line a few places farther down.
* * * *
“Frank Mauri”: Sorcery was ramp-
ant in North New Britain and Le Grand
Seigneur (B. 23/4/’47) essayed the diffi-
cult task of its suppression. Maros, his
loyal police sergeant, betrayed the silence
of his people and disclosed the identity
and hiding place of the chief sorcerer.
“And do you really claim that you can
kill men by magic?” the D.O. asked the
old man before him. “I can,” replied
the sorcerer, “if I have the smallest part
of his body.” The D.O. plucked a hair
from his head. “Then take this,” he said.
With the old sorcerer safely behind bars
the D.O. set out on a patrol for the pur-
pose of collecting more evidence. A week
later we on the station heard the beat of
paddles and the great patrol canoe swept
round the horn of the bay, 40 rowers
threshing the water into foam. “Here’s
the D.O. back,” said the patrol-officer,
“and in a hurry.” At the little jetty a
weeping Maros led a sad cortege ashore.
“I warned him,” he moaned. The doctor’s
verdict was heart failure, but ask any
native from Cape Gazelle to the Dampier
Straits how Le Grand Seigneur died and
you will hear a different story —told in a
fearful whisper.
• ♦ * *
“Chuck”: Jackie’s main worry has al-
ways been his personal comfort, and when
the boss mentioned the trip into the back
for stock, the abo. hand’s first thought
concerned the time-table. “ ’Struth, boss,”
he protested, “what about dinner?”
“Can’t carry it, ? ’ snapped the old man,
“and no time to mess around, anyway.
If y’ can’t go without, y’d better scoot
down to the house and have it now.”
Jackie scooted. Half an hour later he
was back, and gave a hand to yard and
saddle the nags. “What time we get back,
boss?” he asked presently. “In time for
tea?” “No ; not till very late,” came the
reply. “You can have y’r feed then, or,
if y’ can’t go without for a few flamin’
hours, blast y’, y’d better go back and
have your tea now, too.” Again Jackie
made for the kitchen. The boss finished
his preparations, collected whips, released
the dogs, and waited. Half an hour later
he stamped off in search of his helper.
He found him sprawled comfortably on
the chaff bags in the woodshed, and
opened fire generously. Jackie looked
around, “Had me dinner, boss,” he ex-
plained, when the stockman ran out of
threats, “an’ had me tea too, all plenty
good. But, by cri’, boss, I don’t go out ’n’
work after tea for no man.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: No matter how far inland
the job is, if there are two firemen em-
ployed one will be an ex-stoker —
generally an* R.N. or R.A.N. man. Many
hospitals and similar institutions depend
for their steam on “the good old British
stoker,” and Old Men’s Homes are never
short of one-shilling-a-day firemen. Yet
these men, who have helped to propel the
grandest ships the world has seen, do not,
as a rule, make good firemen on land.
Used to the forced draught caused by
the ship’s progress, their technique is to
feed and keep feeding the furnace’s
hungry maw. The result is a mound of
fire, unburnt coal underneath, and wast-
age—of fuel and energy. A good land-
lubber fireman keeps his fire level, not
more than 4in. thick, with the slice regu-
larly cutting beneath the coals eliminating
clinker and ash. He wastes no coal,
saves a lot of unnecessary work and gets
better results. One of the best firemen
I’ve seen stoked a boiler in a mental
hospital. Explaining his methods he
pointed underneath the furnace and
said, “See that glow reflected down in
the ashpit? Well, when that’s all over,
it’s a good fire; when it only shows in
patches there are clinkers, ashes or dead
coal that need slicing off the fire-taars.”
Confirming his statement, later, the en-
gineer added: “He’s a good fireman, that
fellow ; he’ll be told. These sailormen
haven’t got brains enough to know that
they’re not still at sea.” The fireman
he praised was a harmless patient.
» * * m
“Greenhide Bob”; Monkeystrap was
packing away fire damper and jerk in
the sun when the manager walked past
making for the horseyards. “Fightin’
man,” said Monkeystrap, indicating the
trump. “Broke me out of me ambition t’
be a shearer.” When I asked him for the
rest of the story he went on: “Y’ see
this scar over me eye? He gimme that.
I was learnin’ at the shearin’ in the year
o’ the big drought. We’re puttin’ the
rams through first —big blankards that
kicked like footballers. One mornin’ I
hears a voice cornin’ up the chute. It sez:
‘HowTe y’ takin’ the wool orf these rams?
Are y’ pluckin’ it out with yer fingers or
are y’ jest scaldin’ it orf?’ I squints
down the chute an’ sees what I took f
be one o’ the penners-up, in dungarees,
leanin’ over the pen. I sez: ‘Take a
runnin’ jump at y’rself, y’ stupid blank-
ard,’ an’ then I goes on’ wrastlin’ with the
big ram. Up comes the bloke in dun-
garees, an’ tells me he’s the manager, an’
t’ come up t’ his office.an’ he’ll settle up
with me. Soon’s I git in the door he
kings me, an’ then lambasts me till I had
enough, an’ told him so. ‘Now/git back
t’ y’r pen an’ stop scaldin’ them rams,’ he
sez. I sez: ‘But what about pie cheque?’
He sez: ‘Y’ ain’t fired. I said I’d settle up
with y’, an’ I did. Go back an’ learn t’
shear.’ I found out they called him ‘Dun-
garee’ Charlie. But I went back t’ mus-
terin’. Shearin’s too rough for me.”
« * * *
“Old-timer”: Seeding-time on old Bob
Harris’s wheat orchard out on the Graw-
lin plains and old Bob short-handed.
Evening brought a hard-faced young cove
on a motor bike who announced his
willingness to work for Bob for award
wages and produced a union ticket to
prove it. Bob didn’t like union tickets but
he had to have a man, so next morning
he was up and had the tractor warmed-
up and the seed and manure boxes full.
A little before eight o’clock the new
hand arrived on his motor bike, carefully
stabled it, changed into a suit of overalls,
stuck a cigarette into a holder and an-
nounced his readiness to start. “Orright,”
grunted Bob. “I’ll take the tractor an’ you
can work the combine.” He gave brief
instructions, climbed aboard the tractor
and opened her up. Then he turned and
yelled, “An’ watch them clocks, see. Re-
member now, y’ gotter watch them
clocks” (seeding-rate dials on the
machine). The hand’s own hard dial
broke into a confident grin, “Doan’ you
worry about that,” he yelled back. “I’ll
watch the ruddy clocks, all right. The
award says time an’ a half for overtime.”
Five minutes later Bob Harris was again
a man short.
* * * *
“Hanko”; At the last count England’s
bird population was estimated at
100,000,000, with chaffinches topping the
list for numbers with 10,000,000, and
more than doubling the figures of both
the sparrow and the bullfinch communi-
ties. I don’t suppose we’ll ever be as
bird-conscious as J. Bull and take a
census of our feathered folks, so I’ll put
it to the Council: What particular bird
is most numerous in Australia? At a
guess I’d say some clap of the finch tribe
would top the list, with probably the
budgerigar a good place bet. Guessing
in the days when my pants were short I’d
have plumped foiy'the grass-parrot, but,
alas, the ranks of the grassie have so
thinned that nowatimes it wouldn’t be in
the race,
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Young Bob eyed the
beautiful rods and heavy tackle as he
helped the southerners lift their gear
from the dinghy to the beach. They were
all new to the reef, but had come pre-
pared by tales they’d heard. Trolling
from a launch they expected, of course,
but what were the chances of landing big
stuff from the beach? Did the sharks
come in close here? Yes, Bob opined
they’d be close in at high water that
evening, and left the; enthusiasts to their
preparations. Later in the afternoon Bob
took a long heavy line, a length of wire
trace and a large hook which he em-
bedded in the head of the turtle we had
that day demolished. He dropped the
head about 50 yards out on the bared
reef, paid out his line, climbed a
casuarina and tied the other end to a
branch which was too strong to break
but sufficiently resilient to share with the
line the strain of any tugging which
might occur thereon. Bob then ate the
remainder of the turtle and went to bed.
The tide crept in, and encouraged by
the sight of a fin or two the experts be-
gan hurling baits, lines and mechanical
devices far into the ocean ; but through-
“ Don't show me any more—I'll take that cute little one up there."
out this fascinating performance young
Bob slept, snoring heavily. Meanwhile
a ten-foot shark, nosing along the reef,
swallowed the aforesaid turtle’s head and
thus forcibly detained when the tide
turned. In due course Bob awoke, ate a
large breakfast, then wandered down to
his line. He inspected the victim with
silent satisfaction, then cut out the hook,
rolled up the line and strolled back to
listen to an animated debate upon re-
vising the tactics of beach fishing. Young
Bob still prefers his own method ; he
reckons it’s easier.
“Zake”: A cyclone had flattened old
Bob’s kerosene-tin and slab humpy, and
his crazy chimney had also toppled, A
few days later Jim the mailman, looking
for Bob to deliver a rare letter, came
upon him a quarter of a mile away from
his old site. Bob was re-erecting his
kipsy, but he had selected ground which
was swampy and a breeding place for
mosquitoes in summef and which would
be frost-bound in winter. “What are
you shovin’ her up there fer, Bob?” the
mailman asked. “The site y’ had before
was best —high ground, an’ it was
sheltered enough, with heavy timber to
y’r south an’ west.” “Yair,” replied Bob
slowly, “but y’ see I’d’ve ’ad to put up
me chimbley again.” He pointed to an
old dead hollow upright gum. “I got a
fireplace an’ chimbley already built for
me there!”
*'* * *
“T.S.G.”: Ethnologists are becoming
increasingly convinced that the Poly-
nesian race was Aryan in origin, the
migration having spread southward from
India. As a boy I lived in India in the
Mahratta country of the Khandeish. The
rainfall there was very heavy during the
monsoon, and freshwater crabs were
abundant in pool and stream. Land crabs
also burrowed everywhere and were a
curse to gardeners, as they displayed a
great fondness for young cabbage and
cauliflower plants, which they nipped off
almost flush with the ground. The
Mahratta is of Aryan stock ; some of the
women are almost fair, with blue eyes.
The interesting point is that they call a
crab a Kekara —that also, I have since
learned, is the Polynesian name for the
crab. To me that seems no insignificant
link in the chain of evidence.
• ♦ * •
“C.E.”: It was in the early war years
Mum got her ideas about improvements.
“The stove’s about done, Dad,” she
pointed out, “and I thought it’d be such
a help if we could get another one, and
could have a window put in this dark
corner.” Dad inspected the place thought-
fully. “Awright, Mum,” he agreed. “And
we could renew the roof at the same time
perhaps, and stop it leakin’. Yair, we’ll
git them things after the war.” Their
post-war plans kept Mum happy. Then
came the end of hostilities. Her hopes
rose, wavered, and set into a steady de-
cline. They were almost at rock bottom
when, with a sigh, the old bloke dropped
the paper the other evening, and re-
marked, “Well, there’s a chance y’ll git
them improvements before a great while,
after all, Mum.” Mum looked up in-
quiringly. “Course they c’d easy be
wrong,” came the slow explanation, “but
some o’, the shrewd heads think she’ll
come. That’ll mean them blokes ’ll
prob’ly go back ’n’ stay on their jobs
awhile, an’ we’ll git odds an’ ends o’
materials again. Yair,” he decided
thoughtfully, “we might git another war.”
* • * •
“Gumsucker”: The kids of this genera-
tion will never know what it is to come
home from an Agricultural Show with
real samples, such as they gave out gratis
when I was a nipper. My fondest recol-
lection is of a Ballarat Show. I arrived
home from that with, among all the other
things ranging from perfume to pats of
butter, a roast leg of mutton. It
was the era which saw the modern type
of kitchen stove replacing the old colonial
oven, and one enterprising manufacturer
was giving demonstrations: half a dozen
stoves in full blast and two joints cook-
ing in each—“just to show you, ladies.”
As each joint browned to a finish it was
taken out; slices were carved off and
served to spectators on slices of bread ;
the remainder, dripping with gravy, was
passed to anyone willing to accept it.
And strangely there weren’t too many
anxious to cumber themsfelves with a
joint which today would be considered
of super-export quality and would cost
five to six shillings.
THE USURPER.
A queen, the tide moves up the creek
Among her retinue of spoils.
With pumice-stone and sheoak boughs
Caught in her toils.
She bears the prize of victories
On battlefields of sands,
With palms and shells and seaweed chains
Clasped in her hands.
A dead bird ferried to its rest,
That scorned from high her idle flood,
She sets for ever on a nest
Of shells and mud.
Night comes upon the mangrove herds
That pause to drink at either shore;
She fears their shadows moving there,
That queen no more;
And, gazing through the mangrove bars,
Imprisoned, the impostor soon
Sees, insolent on clouded towers,
Her sovereign moon.
QUEENSLAND.
VAL VALLIS.


Safe in his hands...
A.M.L. & F. clients have no doubts on this point. They
know the technique of thj A.M.L. & F. auctioneers is un-
challenged, that they'll bring forth from the buyers every
fraction of a penny the market warrants. Buyers bid con-
fidently at A.M.L. & F. sales.
Get in touch now with
ustralian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Coy. Ltd.
(Inc. in England, 1865.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle. Wagga, Moree. Henty and Hay.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
'7t,
J Sterilised
bone flour
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :•
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide. 588 Perth.
DESTROY THESE PESTS
CYanogaS
with
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas is Certain Death to Rabbits and All other Vermin.
Obtainable from Storekeepers Everywhere.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
MA 6311 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON t GO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Healthy Cattle.
“Bulago”: Before the war most cattle
breeders were in favor of having stud
cattle tested for t.b. and contagious abor-
tion before offering them for sale. Diffi-
culty was experienced in making it a
general rule as there were not sufficient
veterinary surgeons to conduct the tests.
Nevertheless most leading studs could be
regarded as free from both diseases, most
of them testing their herds regularly.
At the 1947 Sydney show it was impos-
sible to get cattle tested because of lack
of time. It is to be hoped that every
effort will be made to ensure that all
cattle will be tested and guaranteed free
from either t.b. or c.a. before future sales.
Big sales are attended by buyers from all
parts. It is most unsatisfactory for them
to select and buy animals—though pur-
chased with the right of rejection if
they do not pass t.b. and c.a. tests—and
then have to await the results of tests,
perhaps weeks. By then the buyer has
gone home and if some of his purchases
react to the tests his expense and trouble
have gone for nothing ; in fact, they will
have to be repeated to allow him to re-
place unsuitable stock.
The number of vets, in country districts
is gradually increasing. All show societies
should set about demanding certificates
for show and sale cattle so that buyers
will be protected and all healthy show
cattle also protected. A source of in-
fection is these shows, where cattle from
all parts of the country are in close con-
tact and often water from the same
source. One affected beast will infect
scores of others under these circum-
stances.
Breeders in their turn should demand
a certain amount of protection for their
animals while off the property and it is
up to the societies to take steps to this
end. They could include thorough disin-
fection (1) of railway trucks, (2) of all
stock floats and (3) of all cattle pens. The
larger societies, like Sydney and Mel-
bourne R.A.S. and Brisbane Royal
National, could well give the lead.
Worms in Sheep.
“J.R.D.”; Rotational grazing is un-
doubtedly the best method of control,
but “Jock’s” theories (B. 30/4/’47) are
open to question. Rotational grazing per-
mits reduction of drenching but will never
cut it out entirely. There are times when
drenching will give maximum results and
this, coupled with the moving of stock to
spelled pastures, will keep the infestation
at an insignificant level.
Successful application of this method
depends on a knowledge of the life
cycle of the internal parasites involved,
and thence the periods when they are
most vulnerable. If the sheep are already
wormy only a thorough drenching will
remove the parent worms; however, one
dose of drench can’t be expected to
dean every worm out of the sheep. Most
immature worms are not killed by the
drench and may reach maturity and start
laying eggs two to three weeks after the
h rst drench. It is therefore necessary after
the h rst dose to put the sheep into a
dean paddock and to give a second
dose about three weeks after the first.
. .The two most important worm para-
sites in sheep are (1) the barber s pole or
lar S e stomach worm and (2) the black
scour worm. The female of the former
l a Y s 5000 to 10,000 eggs per day while
Mrs. Black Scour Worm lays a modest
200. The eggs pass out in the droppings
and usually hatch within 24 hours. With-
ln the next four days the larvse grow and
"It’s a ten-rounder, boys, an remember, y' gotta git back to Work after”
moult a couple of times. Thereafter they
reach the infective stage and can remain
dormant on a blade of grass for weeks
waiting on a sheep to transfer them
along with the grass to its interim*, where
the cycle begins again.
The vulnerable point is that period of
four days or longer in cool weather
between egg hatching and reaching the
infective stage. Dry weather is the chief
enemy but whereas cold will kill the
barber’s pole larvae the black scour larvae
seem to thrive on it. In reverse, the b.s,
can’t stand hot weather while the b.p. will.
In view of the high rate of productivity
of the b.p. worm it is fortunate that only
a very small proportion survive or sheep-
breeding would be almost impossible.
Nevertheless, these larvae can live under
suitable conditions for several months—
these 'conditions being humid, dull, or
showery weather.
Graziers need only remember that the
danger periods of worm infestation follow
rain, particularly light summer rain fol-
lowed by several days of dull weather.
Worms will be hatching out in millions
then. After being picked up by the
sheep they will not be vulnerable to
drench for a further three weeks, but
drenching must be done then and the
sheep put into a fresh paddock.
Rotational grazing has given abundant
proof of its success over a number of
years. To work it on a practical basis
use four paddocks of about the same size.
Concentrate all the normal stock from
these areas into one paddock and move
them on once a month. Each paddock is
thus spelled for three months, which gives
it an excellent chance of starving the
waiting larvae to death. Needless to say,
the smooth running of the scheme de-
pends on the seasons, but although dry
weather may interfere with rotation it
will also prevent survival of worm larvae.
The Dairy Cow.
“Big Billy”: Minerals most likely to be
deficient in the ration of dairy cows are
common salt, calcium and phosphorus.
Add common salt to the grain mixture at
the rate of 1 p.c. and in addition allow
the cows access to salt at least once a
day. Although mineral mixtures afe
sometimes added to the grain ration better
results are obtained by making up the
ration in such a way as to supply the
needed minerals in the foodstuffs.
None of the concentrates is high in
lime. To provide this mineral the cow
should receive plenty of legumes, either
in the pasture or as hay. If the grain
ration contains a liberal proportion of
bran or some of the oil meals, the phos-
phorus needs of the cow will be met.
Soils containing an abundance of lime and
phosphorus will produce forage richer in
these constituents than will soils de-
ficient in them. For this reason liming
and fertilising the soil will help toward
maintaining proper mineral nutrition.
Feeding inorganic mineral supplements
containing calcium and phosphorus is
advisable only under certain conditions.
When cows are on pastures deficient in
lime or phosphorus or both some bene-
fit is derived from feeding steamed bone-
meal mixed with the grain at the rate of
1 or 2 p.c. Cows prefer bonemeal which
has been only slightly steamed. As the
meal spoils when it gets wet the box con-
taining it must be protected from the
rain. It is sometimes necessary to supply
iodine and this can be done by sprinkling
on the feed of the pregnant cow once
each week a tablespoon of a 5 p.c.
solution of potassium or sodium iodide.
Raising Turkeys.
“Atlanta”: The broad-breasted giant
American bronze is the most economical
turkey to breed. During the 28 to 30
weeks from egg to axe a 171 b. bird eats
about 1001 b. of prepared feed, or per-
haps 201 b, less if on good pasture. Ex-
perts regard the turkey as the most
efficient converter of feed into meat, and
figures show that a broad-breast turkey
yields something like 34 p.c. of pure meat
from dressed weight, while most fowls
yield 24 to 26 per cent. Thus, though
considered a luxury food, turkey is really
cheap.
Approximately two-fifths of what a
well-fed turkey eats is grain. Three-fifths
is mash, a finely-ground mixture of about
everything a bird needs to fatten and re-
main healthy. Adult turkeys thrive on
corn, but unless they learn to eat it
they’ll starve with the grain piled a foot
deep around them. Incubator-born
poults often don’t realise the necessity
for eating, and thousands die with food
in front of them. Some breeders induce
them to eat by putting colored marbles
in the mash. Fascinated by bright colors,
they peck at the marbles, taste the mash,
and come back for more.
High mortality among young birds
should decrease once they reach six
weeks of age, but even then epidemic
may sweep the flock, with drastic loss.
Turkeys are temperamental, and any
sudden sight or sound is likely to cause
a stampede, particularly on moonlit
nights. Flying. blind in the dark and
blundering into netting fences or other
obstructions, the heavy birds can sustain
serious injury. Many are bruised, torn
or scratched, with consequent loss to the
owner, and some have been known to
fly as far as three-quarters of a mile
before settling down.
In the U.S.A. some farmers are rais-
ing turkeys as one crop in a rotation.
They claim the birds fertilise the ground
so richly that twice as many vegetables
can be produced on land where they have
been kept. High war-time prices, paid
by American servicemen cannot be ex-
pected today, but where markets are
available good money can be made from
the farm-bred turkey.
Concrete Posts.
“C.A.A.”: An easy method of making
triangular concrete fencing-posts is to
construct the mould in the form of a pig-
trough with two pieces of timber each
6ft. 6in. by Ift. Sin. For ends use two
pieces each approximately Ift. lin. by
Tin. and one piece of quartering 6ft. 6in.
long to fill up the sharp corner at the
bottom of the trough. Nail together with
planed sides inwards and ends sloping in
slightly at the base. Cut ends of long


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears ■ a whole year, yields
2001 b.; has 20ft. runners loaded with large
red tomatoes. Disease and drought resistant. Sen-
sation in America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Box 4109, G.P.0., Sydney.
If jour
dog’s coat
is dull.,
loose or
ragged— __
if he is list*
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAREO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
ŵ
6ARKO
SOLO
CONDITION POWDERS l/«
SKIN LOTION 8/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/«
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Your Car is not complete without
‘SPARKY’
Faulty Spark Plugs play
havoc with your car
engine and your nerves.
Increased Petrol Consump-
tion and less Power are
mostly caused by faulty
Ensure perfect motoring.
Sparks frequently with
“SPARKY,” and forget your troubles.
Have a “SPARKf" in your pocket,
And your car runs like a rocket.
Price, 6/6
Plus 3d. postage-
THE CAR-TKODBLE LAMP,
Easy to connect with your battery.
Price, 7/6
Plus 3d. postage.
Complete with Flex, Holder and Clips.
Less Globe.
Obtainable at all Wholesalers, Garages and Service Stations throughout Australia.
If unprocurable, contact:
PATENT PRODUCTS, 24 Bond Street, Sydney. BU 5998.
k!
u
ẁ
Mt
JiS
■■l
w
*
Jsispsspss^
TUne i)©st
ẃ
ẅ
w
boards on an angle to allow required in-
ward slope.
, Smear inner surface with sump oil, mix
concrete and fill the trough. Place rein-
forcement comprising rods of |in.
mild'Steel or No. 8 fencing wire in the
concrete during filling so that each corner
of the post is reinforced. Make staples
by doubling 12in. lengths of No. 8 wire,
■inserting into wet concrete at the re-
quired spacings. When the concrete is
set tip the post out by inverting the
.trough. When erecting fence run the
wires through the staples, and lock them
into position by threading a vertical
strand of wire down through the loops.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C.”: Many stock diseases remain
unidentified because the veterinary
authorities cannot get sufficient infor-
mation about them from stockmen. When
animals sicken with unusual ailments
owners should observe symptoms care-
fully from day to day, noting them down
in full. Particulars of the animal’s past
history, age, etc., and points about the
pastures, and general climatic conditions
of the locality, will also be of real assist-
ance to the experts. A post-mortem will
usually result in finding something that
will enable the vet. to make an accurate
diagnosis.
“Myrrhee”; Keep fluke off the pro-
perty by killing its hosts—the rabbit and
the fluke snail. Rabbits can be kept
down and the snails dealt with by treat-
ing streams, dams and marshy areas with
powdered bluestone mixed with sand—
-251b. of bluestone to 1001 b. of sand will
treat an acre of snail-infested pasture.
Hang small bags of bluestone on sticks
in dams and streams to which sheep have
access. Dose affected sheep with 1 c.c.
(half that for lambs) of carbon tetra-
chloride in 4 c.c. paraffin oil in June, by
which time the fluke is fully developed.
In heavy infection give two doses —in
May and July,
“Sarina”: Stock spoil the best of
natural water supplies by trampling down
the banks and stirring up the muddy
bottoms. Dirty water is bad in that it
harbors germs, Instal a windmill to
lift the water into a good trough clear
of the water hole. Being fenced off the
latter remain clean.
“C.S.”; How air-freighting helps the
farmer has been demonstrated again, this
time by Romeo, an A.I.S. bull calf, first
of his kind to fly the Continent. Bred
by Ifor Bevan, of Serpentine (W.A.), the
bull is the son of champion parents and
was sold to Hugh Young, of Maitland
(N.S.W.), arriving there a couple of days
after leaving Perth, by A.N.A. ’plane,
with a pause at Melbourne for refresh-
ment. It took Romeo’s father the best
of three weeks to go from N.S.W.
to W.A. when bought for the Bevan farm.
“Hux”: Don’t open the beehive on
bleak days of June or July unless feed’s
needed. Bees are then semi-dormant and
packed into a mass to conserve warmth.
Removing the cover lets in cold air, re-
duces temperature and sets the bees con-
suming honey to create heat. Inroads of
this size on low winter stores can bring
about starvation and loss of the colony.
“Bill C.”: Tie up the dogs before going
blasting (B, 16/4/’47). Some dogs will
bolt- on hearing heavy explosions, but
most will rush to the spot and hang
around trying to find out what’s happen-
ing. First you may see of the dog is
when, after you’ve touched off a charge
and taken refuge, it rushes out and tries
to pull the fuse out of the “jelly.”
“E.M.R.”; Ducks, with the exception
of Muscovies, which will thrive on nearly
the same rations as fowls, should not be
fed much grain, about two quarts per
100 at midday being sufficient. A duck’s
intestines are only about two-thirds the
length of a hen’s because its natural
feed is not grain but small shellfish,
slugs, snails, soft water-weeds, etc., which
are digested more by the gastric juices
than the action of the gizzard.
“M.H.”: Scanty fruiting is often caused
by faulty drainage. Dig trenches along
each side of the trees (about 3ft. away),
being careful not to damage too many
roots, and in these place stones, rubbish,
etc. This will draw off the stagnant
water. Trees delayed in transit will re-
vive if buried in a trench for a couple of
days, and then planted. In heavy soil
addition of a little sand around the roots
is an excellent help at planting-time.
“W. Court”: Careless handling will
soon ruin a grindstone. All tools should
be cleaned of grease and possible acid
substances before being ground. A coat-
ing of boiled linseed oil should be applied
if one side of the stone seems softer than
the other —to the soft side. The oil is
gradually absorbed by the stone, and ex-
cessive wearing is then prevented. No
other but linseed oil should be used or
the stone will be spoiled. If the stone
is turned through a trough of water, the
water should be drained when the stone
is not in use.
“Bill C.”: A carpenter showed me how
to beat a loose bolt which turns when
a spanner is put on the nut. A square
gap £in. wide by lin. deep is cut into
end of a 12in. by 2in. chunk of flat-iron.
The iron is hammered home until the
neck of the obstinate bolt is firmly gripped
in the gap. The bolt is effectively pre-
vented from turning, and the nut may
be unscrewed without bother.


How to get your
Blackmarketeers
We all hate the idea of the blackmarket, and the profiteers who,
knowing human weaknesses, artfully extract the highest prices that
"suckers” (that’s us) can be expected to pay.
When you empty your purse to pay that "extra” for something you
want so much that price doesn’t matter —don’t you get angry? You
bet you do! Don’t you itch to be revenged? Well • • •
mm
's the way to help
kick them out!
Blackmarkets exist only when there’s a
shortage of goods, and plenty of spending
money about. Blackmarkets drain away
your income, put your future in danger,
encourage ruinous inflation, undermine
Australia’s financial stability, defeat price
controls introduced for your protection.
But they can only exist because you and
hundreds of others patronise them!
It’s easy to defeat these parasites . . . just
stop spending except for necessities—and
never pay more than fixed prices.
This way, you discourage the blackmarket
. , . you save money . . . you provide for
the future when better values and plenti-
ful supplies will be available . . . and you
help your country.
Start your private war on profiteers . . .
begin saving to-day . . . hold all your
Save
fot
Security
Bonds and Savings Certificates, buy more
o£ the new 5-Year Savings Certificates
regularly, and subscribe in advance to the
next Commonwealth Loan.
5 WAYS TO SECURE YOUR
FUTURE AND AUSTRALIA'S
1, Buy only what you really need. Spend
wisely ... get full value. Save all you can.
2, Pay no more than the .fixed or regular
prices. Always surrender coupons.
3, Don’t waste money on blaekmarket
goods.
4, Pay your way. Settle your debts. Buy
for cash.
5, Invest your savings, at better than
bank interest, in Commonwealth Bonds,
Savings Certificates and Stamps. Later
on, you’ll have the money, plus the
interest, to spend on better goods in
plentiful supply at better values. Hold
all the Bonds and Certificates you own.
BUY BONDS AND SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
N53,1J1.67.
markings of the lead by the light of a
feeble torch.
I left the Third to finish the soundings
and went aft to read the log. Now that
I knew we were firmly aground I was
anxious to know where we were.
I WAS in the chartroom plotting our
I dead-reckoned position when the
Second came up to the bridge and re-
ported her flooded from the farepeak
to the engineroom bulkhead. Dobson
stamped into the chartroom and snapped
at me:
“What’s the tide doing. Mister?”
“Falling,” I answered. “It’s nearly an
hour past its full.” I indicated a spot on
the chart. “By distance run, sir,” I said,
“That’s where I put her —on Bow Reef.”
“Bow Reef! ” he snorted. “A full mile
off her course! Bloody well impossible.”
I shrugged my shoulders. “It’s the
most likely place.”
He wheeled on the Second then. He
accused him of incompetence, of failure
to keep a proper lookout, and of neglect-
ing to see that the course was steered.
Bill didn’t take it lying down. He
pointed out that he’d been ordered to
steer a certain course and he’d carried
out that order. As for keeping check on
the vessel’s positions—he hadn’t seen a
single landmark since he’d come on
-• watch. If the responsibility had been
placed on him, he finished, he’d have
anchofed.
“Anchored!” Dobson roared, “Yes,
you’d all have dropped your bloody
anchors if you’d had your own way. A
fine lot of bloody seamen you are. Want-
ing to let go an anchor every time a
cloud drifts over the moon.”
He elbowed me aside and picked up
the dividers. “You try to tell me the
course was steered, Mr. Bloody Second
Mate. Then kindly explain how the ship
got here.” He stabbed the dividers into
a spot on the chart marked “Bow Reef.”
“At eleven-thirty she was here" The
dividers stabbed clean through his own
heavily scored bearings and he wheeled
on me thrusting out his jaw defiantly.
“Wasn’t it?” His manner dared me to
contradict him, but I wasn’t going to be
bluffed.
“You said she was there,” I pointed
out. “But I told you at the time that I
wasn’t satisfied. I was doubtful of our
position.”
“Y OU weren’t satisfied! The Mate, a
I newchum on the coast, is not satis-
fied with the Master’s position! And the
Second Mate’s not satisfied with the
course the Master lays down, so he steers
another one and piles the ship up! Either
that or he goes to sleep and lets the
helmsman wander a mile off his course!
God Almighty, it’s unbelievable! And I
suppose you’ll. both squeal about in-
justice when you find your tickets have
been suspended. You’ll lose ’em all
right; I’ll see to that. Now get out
before I say something I’ll be sorry for.”
We got out. There was nothing you
could say to a man like that, and Bill was
in a bad enough mess already without
getting himself logged for insubordination.
Obviously Dobson genuinely believed him
guilty of negligence.
The man couldn’t grasp or wouldn’t
admit that the fault could be his —that
he, Captain Dobson, who knew every
landmark on that coast, could have made
a mistake in his position. The very
idea was absurd, not even worth
consideration. A new reef might
have sprung up in the shipping
channel—a fantastic idea certainly, but
not nearly so fantastic as the suggestion
that Captain Dobson had made an error.
We went down to my cabin and Bill
threw himself down on my settee while
I stripped off my wet pyjamas and dried
myself.
“Mac,” he said. “As true as God s
in Heaven I saw that the course was
steered. Why, damn it all, I had nothing
to do except watch the blasted compass.
You couldn’t see a thing through the
cursed rain.”
His voice was cracking. He was in a
pretty bad way, poor devil, and I didn’t
blame him. When you’ve sweated for
years for your ticket it’s hot nice to think
that you’re going to lose it almost over-
night. In spite of Dobson’s threats I
wasn’t worried about myself. He couldn’t
hang anything on to me.
I said, trying to make myself sound
convincing: “Don’t worry. Bill. You’ll
come out of this all right. All you’ve
got to do is keep your mouth shut until
the enquiry comes off. Whatever the
Old Man says, don’t let him get your
goat.”
I pulled on my oilskins then and we
went out to move cautiously round the
wet, steeply-sloping decks checking the
soundings. We found that as the tide
fell the water inside the ship fell corres-
pondingly, so that by daylight her holds
were practically dry again.
DAYLIGHT! A dismal sight. Rain
was falling steadily, and we three
Mates were standing under the shelter
of the bridge, staring out towards the
grey dawn. The sea was still flat calm,
so calm that the splashing raindrops
made great circles on its surface.
On our starb’d hand, rearing up
through that flat grey sea like great
gnarled blackened stumps, were rows of
ugly niggerheads, pillars of dead coral
stretching as far as our eyes could see
through the rain. Just off our port bow,
not more than sixty or seventy feet from
the windlass on our fo’castle head, was
a huge square black beacon.
The Aid to Navigation on Bow Reef!
Huddled together on the uppermost
strut of the beacon and looking almost as
miserable as we felt were three be-
draggled seagulls.
Young Clive, the Third Mate, pointed
to the gulls and grinned. “That makes
six of us enjoying the scenery,” he said.
“You can think yourself bloody lucky
you’re not perched up there with ’em,” I
told him. “Go and rouse the bosun
out and tell him I want a ladder over the
side. I’m going down on to the reef as
soon as it uncovers.”
AN hour later the Chief Engineer
and I were down on the reef
walking dryshod around the ship. In
fact almost the entire crew was down
there wandering about the reef like, a
crowd of holidaymakers. What irres-
ponsible, feckless fools sailors are, I
thought, watching them gathering lumps
of coral below the bulk of their ship,
rammed high up on a reef of it, listing
heavily with her bows cocked high in the
air not seventy feet from that damned
warning beacon.
We officers were down under her lifted
bows examining a great jagged hole a
good ten feet long and three feet across.
God knows what damage there was fur-
ther aft, for the ship had ploughed
through the coral, bedding herself down
in the cursed stuff.
You’d never think such frail, delicate-
looking stuff could rip steel plates wide
open, would you? But that’s what it
did to the old Bidarie —practically ripped
the bottom out of her.
We never got her off; she, or what’s
left of her, is still there, lying over on
her side on Bow Reef, overshadowing
and making a mockery of the black
warning beacon, herself a rusting warn-
ing.
Right to the end Dobson refused to
admit that the fault could be his. At
the enquiry he gave his evidence with
all the assurance of a man who, having
done everything possible to safeguard
his ship, has been let down by the in-
competence of his subordinates. There
were hard-bitten old seamen on that
court. They listened to us all —to Dob-
son, arrogantly confident; to me, full
of Scotch caution but sure of my facts;
to Bill, a strange mixture of a man
quoting well rehearsed facts, knowing
himself innocent but at the same time
nervously anxious for the safety of his
precious ticket right down to the
helmsman bluntly stating that from mid-
night till one forty-five, when the vessel
struck, he had steered a course of North
six West in accordance with the Master’s
orders.
They found Dobson guilty in that,
knowing his vessel to be in narrow reef-
bound waters, he failed to exercise due
caution by anchoring when the' visibility
obviously prevented him from establish-
ing his true position. Poor devil, they
cancelled his ticket—put him put for life.


liiii
I
m
ANY COUNTRY HOME CAN
HAVE A CITY KITCHEN
mmm
The AGA Cooker brings all the Comforts and conven-
iences of city cooking to country homes. Modern
appearance; sparkling "easy-clean" baked enamel
finish; special insulation—keeps kitchens cool—delicious
cooking by scientific stored heat in roomy ovens and
the convenience of having the AGA operating con-
tinuously at no extra cost.
Economical, too! Country owners have proved that fuel
costs are less than cost of wood even when drawn
from their own properties. Every AGA is British made
and carries a double guarantee.
1. It is guaranteed not to burn more than an amazingly
small specified quantity of fuel per annum.
2. It Is guaranteed against faulty material or workman-
ship for ten (10) years.
If unable to see the AGA in operation in our showroom
write for catalogue—showing the complete range of
models.
AGA
i
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 {lnc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney.
432 Botirke St.. Melbourne.
Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert
St*., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents; A. 6.
Webster & Sons Ltd.,
Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch
Bros. Ltd.. Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
ITS REMY MARTIN BRANDY
TO the Bestl
With the Bestl
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“It is reported that American nudists will
hold their first post-war convention in Indiana.”
They mean un-convention, surely!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sydney headache manufacturers will submit
a statement.” — Sydney "Daily Telegraph.”
They’re thumbing their Thesauruses at
the Road Transport and Taxation depart-
ments.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Men fall out of love more easily because
their ego ideals are harder to satisfy.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
“Kleptomaniac nurse says: ‘I can’t help
myself.’ ” —Sydney paper.
Nonsense, she can —and she does!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Traveller for tarpaulins to cover city and
suburbs.” — "S.M.H. V
Some tarpaulins.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Half Crown Jewels missing.”
—Sydney "Sun:"
Yes —but need you make such a song
and dance about it, Mr. Woolworth?
4* 4* 4* 4* v
“Porridge is stable food in Scotland.”
—Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Horsey, keep your tail up!
4* 4* 4* 4*
‘The old lady gazed with astonishment at
the big shining motor van inscribed ‘St. Aubyn’s
Stud.’ ” — "S.M.H.”
“My gracious,” she said to her hus-
band,' “what sort of a shirt did he wear?”
“U.S. housewives may soon have their milk
delivered in new, fancy-colored bottles.”
—"Sunday Telegraph."
Customers no doubt would prefer rich
cream.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A woman’s wardrobe should be built around
her suit.” —Sunday paper.
Then she’ll always have something to
wear in it.
“Wanted urgently flat young lady attending
University.” —Suburban paper.
No sweater girls need apply.
“When you consult our beauty expert we
make a record of the type of cosmetic pre-
scribed for your complexion, and keep a file
for when you call again.” —Beauty salon ad.
Surely medium sandpaper would be
effective enough.
4* *4* 4*
“Police Commissioner has a lot of loose ends
to tie up.” —Sydney “ D.T
It might help if he tied a few of them
into nooses.
Sensitivity.
“Rabbits, whose skins are claimed to be more
sensitive than women’s, 'are being used in
chemical experiments with cosmetics.”
• —Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
Though many unattractive habits
Have been attributed to rabbits,
Some hidden leaning to (esthetics
Has saved the creatures from cosmetics ;
And if it could withstand the trial
Of what goes on the female dial,
The epidermis of the coney
Would be, to put it mildly, stony.
And yet, when after several years
Of sighs, entreaties, threats and tears.
You finish up by letting her
Select at your expense a fur
To face the neighbors’ comments in,
Although the average female skin
Can weather coats of paint, it’s funny
How sensitive it is to bunny.
P. M. LUSK.
ŵ
BERT.
After the Procession.
Come, boys of the Left,
Let us show we’re bereft
Of reason and plain commonsense.
Let us broadcast the praises
In glamorous phrases
Of Tito the Great, the Immense.
For it’s part of our creed
To denounce our own breed,
Whatever the rights of the matter ;
That’s why we’re so partial
To Tito the Marshal,
The Musical Comedy Hatter.
M. P. S.
Midnight Meditation.
Leaning from the window as the mid-
night sky looks down,
I see the darkness resting on the houses
like a crown.
I hear the breezes swimming in the tree-
tops’ black lagoon,
And all the senses promise that the dawn
will waken soon . . .
That Night will die, that Stars will fade,
but — ah, the bitter truth !
My thoughts are padlocked to this nerve
that’s dying in my tooth.
EVE MERRITT.
Lovers’ Tiff.
“In an attempt to prevent smuggling, Mexico
City airport has banned embraces between in-
coming travellers and local friends.”
—"Time" (C 7.5.).
“Darling, eet ees so vonderful to see
you! ” enthused the countess as she kissed
me on both cheeks. A diamond, which I
estimated roughly at 150 carats, rolled
against my left eardrum.
“You are more beautiful than ever,” I
whispered. “What about the watches?”
She clutched passionately at my lapels
and a heavy parcel thudded its way
through my breast pocket. I held her
affectionately at arm’s length with one
hand while I settled the package in the
lining with the other.
• “I haf vaited veeks for zis moment,”
the countess murmured significantly.
“Zere is also ze Chanel No. 13. Kees
me!”
I obeyed, and as her arms slid pos-
sessively round me there was an unac-
customed weight in my hip pocket.
“Darling!” she cried again, breaking
from me. “Zere ees also d matter of a
meellion francs, no?”
“How soon can we be alone, my
sweet?” I urged. “It is only half a mil-
“This sea-lion hunting seems to be quite ovahrated, Pickelby!”
lion. The rate of exchange has altered.”
“I lof you so much—a meellion, yes, a
meellion! ” the countess whispered mean-
ingly.
“It cannot be,” I said brokenly but
firmly. This was a matter of some diffi-
culty, but I made it. Her eyes flashed.
“So you would betray me!” she
screamed, and delivered a hefty thrust
in the region of the watches.
As the Chanel No. 13 cushioned my
fall to the best of its ability, I was in
bad odor with, the Customs for some
months.
PLUM.
Starry-eyed Romance.
“Too many girls approach the problems of
love and matrimony under the influence of
romantic imaginings.” —"New Idea.”
In times gone by a weedy cove
Was mercilessly relegated
To back seats whence he contemplated
His sturdy cobbers making loye,
And every budding flapper strove,
Steeped in romance and addle-pated,
To win some he-man overrated,
A sort of Hercules-cum-Jove.
Today her idols broken lie:
Strong-man and athlete vainly moon
And meekly worship from afar;
For which of them could hope to vie
With voices that can cause to swoon
The lass who hankers for a star?
D. H. E.
Week on the Diplomatic Front.
Monday : The Linking Sub-Committee
of the Steering Sub-Committee of the
General Committee of the Inter-Zone
Committee heatedly debated the British
proposal to allow Berliners to play hop-
scotch. The American and French dele-
gates supported the British, but the Soviet
delegate, M. Bumpemoff, violently
opposed it on the ground that hopscotch
was a semi-military sport which might be
used covertly by the Germans to train
a secret army. An alternative proposal
to allow the Germans to play yo-yo was
similarly opposed by M. Bumpemoff,
who contended that as the game involved
the Law of Physics this might lead to an
upsurge of interest in the study of nuclear
physics. M. Stalin in an interview with
an “ace” American foreign correspondent
praised Mr. Churchill as a war leader, and
said he held affectionate memories of
their days together when planning at
Yalta.
Tuesday; Moscow Radio made a
violent attack on Mr. Churchill, dubbing
him “a bloody-minded Tory who, after
treacherously engineering the German
attack op. Russia, deliberately withheld
vital war material from her ally in the
hope that she would be swiftly crushed.”
Mr. Attlee announced in the Commons
that at the express invitation of the
Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, M.
Vyshinsky, he was sending the Labor
peer. Lord Fitz Sardine, to Moscow to
iron out any difficulties in the forthcom-
ing Anglo-Soviet trade agreement. After
a four-months sitting the Groundwork
Sub-Committee of the Probing Committee
of the Inter-Zone Committee broke up
after the British, American and French
delegates had failed to get the Soviet
delegate to agree to exchange a quantity
of boiled lollies produced in the Soviet
zone for an equal quantity of liquorice
all-sorts produced in the combined Anglo-
American zone. The Soviet delegate con-
tended that the term “all-sorts” might
tend to inflame the Germans in their
zone.
Wednesday : “Pravda,” in a fierce
attack on what it termed the “crass stu-
pidity of the reactionary Attlee in send-
ing a member of the decadent, half-witted
English aristocracy to Russia,” said that
the Soviet knew in advance that a man
of the poisonous type of Lord Fitz-
Sardine could do nothing but cause
friction. Apparently England, as part of
the move to place an iron ring around
the Soviet, was going out of its way to
make the trade talks wellnigh impossible
of fulfilment at the outset. In a speech
at U.N.O. M. Gromyko said he agreed
“in principle” with the attitude of Yugo-
slavia which other delegates had com
demned as unprincipled. He would, how-
ever, pledge the U.S.S.R.’s whole-hearted
support for the proposal made by Sir
Alexander Cadogan that all plenary ses-
sions of the Security Council should be
preceded by one minute’s silence so that
sacrifices made in the cause of freedom
should be fresh in their minds during
their solemn deliberations.
Thursday: In a violent attack on Sir
Alexander Cadogan for what it described
as “a typical example of western chi-
canery,” “Izvestia” said, the proposal
for one minute’s silence was obviously
meant as a deliberate affront to the
Soviet, whose armies had practically
single-handed beaten Germany and Japan,
and whose air fleets had had to do the
job of crippling German industry when
the Anglo-American air forces had fallen
down badly on the job. In a warm
speech of welcome to General Lucius
Clay at Moscow airport, M. Molotov
said the American, by his conduct of
affairs in the American zone of Berlin,
had won the unstinted admiration of all
Soviet citizens.
Friday : In a violent attack on General
Clay the Soviet paper “New Masses,” to
which M. Molotov is a frequent con-
tributor, accused the American of secretly
training and arming seven million Ger-
mans for a combined Anglo-American-
German assault on the U.S.S.R. The
paper claimed it had irrefutable evidence
to prove that Wall-street had ordered
President Truman to pursue this policy,
and that the Secretary of State, General
Marshall, who is savagely anti-Soviet,
would shortly visit Russia ostensibly on
State affairs, but actually to study the
terrain over which the fighting would
occur, as he had been selected as C.-in-C.
Saturday: M. Stalin, in an interview
with a Famous Foreign Correspondent,
praised General Marshall for his untiring
efforts for peace. Soviet Russia had
shown a sincere desire for peace and had
given an example to other nations by
reducing her armed forces from eight
millions to 14 millions. She was now
spending only 157,000 million roubles a
year on armaments. The greatest danger,
he .said, came from the war party in
England headed by the super-Fascist
Churchill, who was as wretchedly in-
competent in peace as he had been in
war.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
The R.A.A.F., Pt. Cook
To the anti-conscriptionist Govern-
ment in Canberra the present state of our
armed ' forces, especially the R.A.A.F.,
means very little. But I think even these
antis would be affected by the present
condition of Point Cook (Vic.), birthplace
and home of the R.A.A.F.
In December, 1944, there were 4000
men on the station, and 15 types of air-
craft were based there. Training was
given to all types of flying instructors, to
200 air-crew trainees, to 1100 W/T
operators and in bombing and air
gunnery for both multis and singles and
photo-recces. No major overhaul was
too big for the workshops, and no equip-
ment was lacking for any standard ser-
vice aircraft, land- or sea-based, or for
the curious experimental freaks and
hybrids.
The number and variety of activities
carried on should have made the station
a collection of clanny, disjointed units.
But it was not. Under a “Battle of
Britain” C. 0., food and messing arrange-
ments, transport, education and sports
facilities were the best I’ve ever struck.
The efficiency and harmony with which
the work of the units proceeded showed
that good living and working conditions
and a minimum of bumph and bull were
fully appreciated.
Two years later in December, 1946, I
went back to Point Cook. There was
still a guard on the gate, but the boom
was rusted upright. The barracks housed
three inhabitants, all awaiting discharge.
Only a few tables in the huge messhall
were used, and weeds grew in the cracks
in the paths and roads. The broad con-
crete runway and perimeter tracks were
the white of concrete untouched .by
rubber.
Only two aircraft were there, a T.A.A.
Skymaster and a P.R.U. Mosquito, on its
way to the west.
Perhaps this change of scene would not
touch the hearts of the Wards and Cal-
wells, but it hurt me because I remember
the Wirras at Rabaul and because I
remember the Middletons and the Jack-
sons and the Turnbulls and can see their
message, written by courage and sacri-
fice, going unheeded.—A. G. M- (S.A.).
Soviet Stamps
Eight months ago I wrote to the Lega-
tion of the U.S.S.R., Canberra, asking for
the name and address of someone in
Russia with whom I could exchange
stamps. It gave me two —the Phila-
telic Office of the State Publishing House,
Moscow, and the English Department of
the U.S.S.R. Society for Cultural Rela-
tions with Foreign Countries, Moscow.
I wrote to both addresses by registered
air mail, enclosed a selection of Austra-
lian stamps and asked for some Russian
ones in return. I mentioned'that the
Legation at Canberra had furnished me
with names. Receiving no reply for
six months, I wrote again to the Legation
and asked if it could help in ascertain-
ing whether my letters to Moscow had
ever reached their destinations. The
Legation replied regretting that it was
not in a position to assist me.
Soon afterwards I received a letter from
Mezhdunarodnaja Kniga, Moscow, stat-
ing that my letter addressed to the State
Publishing House had been handed over
to them as the only firm in the U.S.S.R.
dealing with the export of Soviet stamps.
The letter continued, “We regret to in-
form you we are not interested in ex-
changing stamps, as we deal only on a
cash basis, selling stamps to, wholesale
stamp-dealers. As to private persons, we
regret to inform you that private col-
lectors do not exchange stamps with those
of foreign countries at present. We are
thus obliged to return herewith the stamps
sent by you for exchange.”
What has happened to the other lot of
stamps that I sent to the English Depart-
ment of the U.S.S.R. Society for Cultural
Relations with Foreign Countries I shall
probably never know.
I then discovered that the Canberra
Legation had just advised a friend of
mine to write, on the matter of exchang-
ing stamps, to the same U.S.S.R. Society
for Cultural Relations with Foreign
Countries, or to V.O.K.S. (whoever they
might be), Moscow.
I wrote once more to Canberra, and
detailed the whole story, including the
letter I had received from Mezhdunaro-
dnaja Kniga, the non-receipt of any reply
from the Cultural Relations Sjociety, and
the fact that the Legation is still advising
people to write to that address. I sug-
gested that, if it is impossible for col-
lectors here to exchange stamps with
private collectors in Russia, it would be
more appropriate to advise inquirers to
that effect than to involve them in the
expense and subsequent disappointment
of either receiving no reply at all, or hav-
ing the stamps returned with an answer
such as I have received.
Back came a curt reply stating that the
Legation would not comment on my letter
except to the extent that my statement
“that it is not possible for private col-
lectors in Russia to exchange with col-
lectors in other countries” was absolutely
incorrect! —J. R. F. (N.S.W.),
T.
“A.J.M.” (B. 2/4/’47), bemoaning the
shortage of petrol, says that if only Trans-
Australian Airways had ordered its
new planes from Britain instead of the
U. the saving in dollars would have
enabled him to fill his tank to overflow-
ing. He’s unduly optimistic. Even if
such planes are to be had—and British
lines don’t seem to get them —they still
burn enough petrol in one trip to keep
“A.J.M.” happy for a year or two.
My idea is much simpler and infinitely
more effective. Why not abolish T.A.A.?
It’s not as though the thing were any use
to us; it produces nothing but a large
hole in our foreign exchange. It would
no doubt be missed by politicians and
others who like to arrive fresh after their
journey, but think of the money we tax-
payers would save! I know it’s a ridi-
culous idea, but just imagine if those
1500 persons engaged in pushing those
American planes around were set to
producing things. We might even be
able to sell enough abroad to buy some
petrol—L. I. B. (Singapore).
Taxation
While increases in assets over a
number of years will reveal certain
profits (B. 30/4/ ’47), citizens are becom-
ing too well versed in taxation procedure
to be caught by investigation from that
angle. They are daily, spending huge
amounts on gambling, clothes, furniture,
holidays, entertainments and many other
non-revenue producing avenues, thus
assisting inflation and reducing the
Federal Treasurer’s income, ,
One of the most unfair uses for this
surplus money is the purchasing of homes
on the blackmarket, thus making it almost
impossible for the legitimate buyer of
limited means to obtain a home at
Federal Authorities price. A remarkable
feature is that many reputable people,
trustworthy in ordinary business dealings,
do not hesitate to indulge in these prac-
tices.
As suggested by “Taxagent” the most
effective method of preventing tax eva-
sion is by ruinous fines and, in particu-
larly glaring cases, gaol. Such a course is
only just and fair to those who,submit
correct returns, and to those whose
impost is deducted at its source. —
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Is the Government serious in suggest-
ing that it send along its taxation minions
to appraise the earnings of aboriginals
so that tax may be collected from those
of them who earn more than £lO4 a
year? If *it is not a joke, then it’s one
of the most indecent pieces of effrontery
that Government go-getters have con-
ceived.
The aboriginal didn’t put up a fight as
the Maori did, and so has been steadily
dispossessed of his land. He has no
voting rights and he is not permitted to
own land even if he wants to pay for a
block out of his earnings. Aboriginals
fought in the war, and one gained a
commission ; others have come out in the
field of inventive discovery and in art.
Albert Namitjira has shown that he can
paint pictures. But because they are good
enough for art lovers to buy and hang
in their homes, the black artist is to be
asked to make a hand-out to the taxa-
tion department!
Australia’s treatment of its abo-
rigines in the past arouses a lot of awk-
ward questions from other countries, but
now we shall be able to say that, at any
rate, the Government does collect taxes
from the aboriginal, even though it won’t
grant him individual privileges in the
community! — Taggunnah (Tas.).
Assessment—and Reflections
Recently I received my income-tax
assessments, one for last year and one
for this. The tax for this year is based
on last year’s earnings, which were twice
as much as I am likely to make this year.
It means that I have to pay £l5O more
than I owe, and, as it was payable on
May 6, it means that I had to submit
to the injustice of paying before I earned
the income on which tax is based.
On top of that, after paying in advance
a sum which I do not owe, I will then
have to prove to the authorities that I
do not owe it before they will return it
to me.
The characteristic remark of every
soldier on being discharged from the
Army was “I just want to be let alone/’
It was generally said so fervently that it*
amounted to a prayer. Yet much of the
money that is being taken from us al-
legedly to pay for our freedom is being
used to maintain controls that should
have been done away with when the war
finished. It is also being used to create
monopolistic, non-taxpaying Government
industries, which are directed to crushing
private industry.
Consider, for instance, the case of a
builder when the Government decides to
build cottages in the area in which he
operates. The money to do this comes
out of the very taxes the builder himself
helped to pay. When the Government
scheme is started the Government has
first claim on materials, and the private
builder cannot get them. He is held up
and has to let his men go ; they naturally
go to the Government job. The con-
tractor either carries on by himself as
best he can, or he too goes to the Gov-
“Sorry, lady, youly have to pay duty on these or forfeit them."
emment job. He probably becomes a
foreman or manager, but he is no longer
a free man inspired by his own ideas.
He is working for a boss, and not even
a boss who is a practical man on the job,
but a departmental head whose know-
ledge of practical building would most
likely not amount to driving a nail
straight.— Ardizan (Q.).
Immigration
“C.E.T.” (B. 9/4/’47) contends that be-
cause there are shortages of houses,
schools and hospitals no immigrant
should be brought to Australia.
The present shortages are temporary,
and if our own people would get down
to a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay
the leeway could soon be overcome. New
people are not, in the long run, taking
work from Australians, but making far
more work. A new settler takes one job,
but he immediately helps to provide work
for a whole round of people because his
wants in the way of food, clothing, enter-
tainment, beer and tobacco must be met.
“C.E.T.” should take a trip through
the Far East, where there are
1,000,000,000 people who are awake to
the possibilities in Australia.
I am an Australian with a stake in the
country and a family growing up, and I’d
be happier about the future if I could
see larger numbers of people from the
British Isles, Scandinavian countries and
Germans coming out as settlers. Ger-
mans, I say—though recently our
enemies, they have been among the best
immigrants the country has received.
We could do a lot more'to make new
people welcome when they do come and
to help them to adapt themselves and
understand the new country.— Alpha
(8.C.0.F., Japan).
“Our Vanishing Freedom”
In his admirable article (B. 23/4/’47)
R. Palmerston Ruddle states an un-
answerable case against Australia’s pre-
sent-day method of “government,” State
and Federal alike. He suggests as the
only possible remedy a Bill of Rights
for the plain, ordinary citizen, protected
by a compulsory referendum clause
against any Parliamentary attempt to
suspend, amend, repeal or limit it with-
out obtaining the sanction of a majority
of all voters. It is to be hoped that all
non-“ Labor” Governments, present and
future, will place such a measure first on
their list of activities and will include
in it full and permanent powers for
Courts to enforce their orders through
deputy sheriffs where political or bureau-
cratic obstruction is attempted.
Unfortunately, no tangible suggestion
is given as to how’all this —the only hope
for the ordinary non-union citizen of
escaping Communistic serfdorft within a
few years —can be brought about. In the
same issue of The Bulletin are bitter
complaints from ex-prisoners-of-war and
other ex-servicemen concerning the scan-
dalously mean treatment meted out to
them and their dependants by the Chifley
“Government.” The Old Diggers had a
bad enough deal, but it was mild matter
compared with what those of the 1939-45
"war arfc now enduring.
There is an unfortunate and still-
growing tendency towards differentiation
between Old Diggers and Young Diggers,
servicemen and servicewomen, returned
and non-returned, in respect of their post-
war organisation for mutual support and
self-protection., Cannot some genuine
effort be made by these splendid people
to weld all Australians who have helped
to save their native land into a solid vot-
ing body, its basic aim to be the preser-
vation and development of their- civic
rights? It would provide a voting power
sufficient to make any “Labor” Govern-
ment pause before going further along
the road which leads inevitably to serf-
dom for the average citizen. — Colbun
(Q-).
State Parliaments
“Beja” (B. 9/4/’47) chants the same
old song, do away with the useless State
Parliaments; and advances the truly
horrifying idea of replacing them with
a bureaucracy under remote control from
Canberra. We already have that, and
our only bulwark is our own State Par-
liament, to which we can turn in desper-
ation.
With the help of our own M.L.A. I
bearded the chief of a Commonwealth de-
partment during the early days of ration-
ing. To me it was both shocking and
somehow ludicrous to find the M.L.A-
extremely dubious about the whole thing.
As it was a Commonwealth department,
he doubted if there was much he could
do to help me. Had it been a State
matter “it would be different.” Different
indeed! It was even difficult for this
elected representative of our State Par-
liament to get an interview with the
potentate. Fortunately, and no thanks
to the system, this Commonwealth nabob
was a reasonable type when you got him
at close quarters, settled matters
amicably.
I can’t speak for other States, but if
they ever do away with our Westralian
Parliament then it will be me for Canada,
or somewhere where they still recognise
that, in a big country, it is the inalienable
right of districts to have their own freely-
elected representatives from the ranks of
local men who know local conditions. If
you make a State you must give it the
right to govern itself within a true sys-
tem of Federation-
Any man in business knows the waste
of time brought about by dealing with
subordinates of another firm. This prin-
ciple is extended to governmental affairs,
too. It gives a man a feeling of utter
frustration, particularly in a State like
W.A., to know that if he has an impor-
tant matter to bring up about something
peculiarly Westralian the question may
have to be referred to Canberra. —
R. H. G. (W.A.).


Railways
I’ve never read a Bulletin contributor
vet who couldn t give, in full, all the
reasons for the “losses” on State railways.
They range from the humorous to the
fantastic, but they never include this
sort of thing. .
The operation of the Leigh Creek coal
mine has attracted a lot of very favorable
attention, and rightly so, but it was left to
the railway commissioner to make it a
success by granting “concession” freights.
It’s what he’s there for, I know, but
this case it meant that on every ton o
coal landed at Port Augusta, the depart
ment lost a matter of 15s.
Over in N. S. Wales the drough
found Mr. Hartigan running th
wheels off his battered stock anc
using up his microscopic reserves o
coal in an effort to save what could be
save d —a job in which the obsolete rail
way still appears to have a monopoly
Details are somewhat meagre, but on
one long haul he was just ss. out o
pocket on every jumbuck handled.
Of course in these enlightened time
such matters get no publicity, sheep
droughts and railways in particular be
ing absurdly old-fashioned and lacking
in glamor, but I wonder if there ha
been any more important operation
carried out since the end of the war.
also wonder whether we wouldn’t be *a
lot richer today if the money squandered
on American planes and non-productive
airfields had been spent on strategic rai
lines built to meet just such an emer
gency.— Tidapa (Singapore).
“The Missionaries”
To the ex-serviceman student who, on
battlefield and in wet canteens, learnec
the virtue of toleration, certain factions
within our universities cause endless
amusement. They are generally com-
posed of ex-schoolchiidren, brilliant in
an academic way, who regard themselves
as possessing “a mission in life.” Their
main occupation appears to be the writ-
ing of articles on the horrors of Peterloo,
the nobility of Zionism and the
necessity of making abortion legak The
ex-serviceman, puzzling over essays and
exam, papers, grins involuntarily and
goes his wlty, considering nevertheless
that these people take themselves just a
little too seriously.
An example of zeal was seen recently
when a politician, for the purpose of
drawing attention to himself, made vague
statements about the pinkishness of the
Melbourne Professorial Board. The profes-
sors ignored them, but the “missionaries”
called a meeting for the express purpose
of making “give me liberty or death”
speeches and condemning the “emotional
and unsubstantiated attacks.” The meet-
ing did not go quite according to plan,
for one student (a “Fascist,” I suppose)
saw fit to draw attention to the fact that,
through the editorial columns of the
student paper, one “missionary” had re-
ferred to the politician as illegitimate
and as possessing the physiognomy of a
rattlesnake! His inference was that
people jn glasshouses ought to grow up.
More amusing, perhaps, was the “mis-
sionaries’ ” reaction to the decision of
some of the more seriously-minded ex-
servicemen to form a political faction of
their own. Immediately rose the cry of
“Fascism” and the comrades —pardon, the
“missionaries” —set about comparing it to
the Iron Guard, the New Guard and
what-have-you. The club’s first action,
that of organising active university par-
ticipation in the Food-for-Britain Appeal,
seems quite harmless to the majority of
us, but the “missionaries” no doubt re-
gard it as a manifestation of infernal
designs.— Cynic (Vic.).
Pensions
There is a bitter contrast between pen-
sions granted to N. S. Wales politicians
after three terms in Parliament —and
they need not be full terms —and the
meagre provisions made for ex-servicemen
suffering war disabilities (B. 30/4/’47).
The situation is just as ugly in the case
of next-of-kin of deceased servicemen.
A soldier’s widow I know has two
children and gets £4 a week. Even if no
rent is paid that is insufficient. If rent
iS paid, it is totally inadequate. She has
to live with relatives in a small house,
which means that the boys lack the free-
dom and the home life which should be
theirs. Not only have they lost their
father, but also what their father pro-
vided for them. Soon the boys’ allow-
ances will cease, but even with what
they can earn in their ’teens the family
income will be insufficient. Later the
widow will be left with an income of £2
10s. a week. It is a poor prospect for
a woman, whose husband gave his life for
Australia, to be dependent on relatives
for the rest of her fife.
The case of parents should also be
considered. To give their sons a good
start in life many parents made great
sacrifices, knowing that later some re-
payment would be made by the sons.
One family I know were, by thrift and
sacrifice, able to put their son through
high school and the university. They
went without holidays and in time of
sickness borrowed on an endowment
policy. At the end of his third year the
son joined the air force and was shot
down in Europe during a bombing raid.
That crashed all the family plans.
The endowment policy which, when
it was taken out, would have bought a
house will not, when it matures, be half
enough. All through his working life
the father has paid into a pension fund
which will return him, when age forces
him to retire, less than £3 a week. It is
a poor prospect for parents who did their
best to educate a son who had to give
his life for Australia.
There are many such cases. Parents
seem to have been forgotten, but surely
they are entitled to some compensation.
A grant to the next-of-kin of all deceased
servicemen and -women is only a matter
of justice. Only those who have been
through it know what it means to lose
a husband or son in war, and if added to
this sorrow there is anxiety for the future
the burden becomes too heavy. A grant of
£lOOO should be made to the next-of-kin
of all who gave their lives. It would lift
the burden of the widoNv and ease the
declining years of parents who gave their
sons. It would be money well spent and
would go to the right people. Few Aus-
tralian taxpayers would object.— Salailua
(N.S.W.).
Cause for Growling
I agree with “W.P.T.” (B. 7/5/’47) that
dairyfarmers can hold their own as
growlers. The cause mostly rises from
uneconomic prices. H. L. Anthony,
M.P., ran a dairyfarm with hired labor,
keeping full records of income and ex-
penditure ; and although Anthony is an
astute businessman he could not make
it pay. After carrying on at a loss for a
couple of years he, like thousands of
others, had stock and plant put under
the hammer.
Sydney electorates have increased their
enrolments by 24 per cent, since 1938
against an increase of only 3 per cent, in
country electorates. Many of the influx
to the City came from dairyfarms. Who
wouldn’t leave a 4 a.m. to 7 p.m. job for
one in the city at 40 hours, with award
wages, plus time and a half and double
rates for overtime?
Pay the farmer what it costs the aver-
age competent cow-cocky to produce a
pound of butterfat, plus a margin for
managerial,responsibility, plus, overtime
rates for hours worked beyond eight per
day, and the people will go back to the
dairyfarms, and the cause for growling
will cease.
The farmer holds no monopoly for
getting part of his living on the cheap —
railwaymen get free transport, grocers
their groceries at warehouse rates, dentists
and doctors give free service to their
colleagues, shophands get their require-
ments-at cut rates and so on —the list is
nearly endless. Things don’t just grow
by accident on farms; the farmer must
work to get vegetables, fruit and eggs for
his family, and by the same token thou-
sands of suburbanites with sizable back-
yards could grow these things for them-
selves. So why growl at the growling
farmer? —F. D. (N.S.W.).
School Transport
Despite repeated protests the N.S.W.
Transport Department refuses to improve
its paradoxical concessions to students.
Schoolchildren can travel free on the
Government railways, but those who
travel by Government tram or bus must
pay fares. Again, the railways offer
generous concessions to university
students (under 18 quarter-fare; over 18
half-fare), yet the trams and buses
allow a concession which is so restricted
that many do not avail themselves of it.
In any normally-governed community
student travellers on Government vehicles
would be granted equal concessions—but
then N.S.W. isn’t normally governed.—-
Radius (N.S.W.).
It HAS Happened Here
While Victorian councils as diverse as
Metcalfe and Melbourne protest at the
action of the Federal Government in
ordering them to bank with the Common-
wealth Bank, the bank goes serenely on
its way, regardless of the rights of others,
like any lumbering socialised machine.
The order was described at Metcalfe “as
amounting to socialisation of the country,”
which of course it is, as Minister Calwell
has loudly proclaimed.
At Maryborough, when the council
protested against the erection of a
Commonwealth Bank building which
contravened both the Maryborough and
the State building regulations, a spokes-
man for the builders said “We have built
temporary banks in many parts of the
State and, although some councils have
objected, it has in no way hindered our
work.”
“Labor” politicians have referred with
pride to the fact that 117 new branches
of the Commonwealth Bank have been
established. That provides at least one
reason why the absurdly high taxes
“can’t” come down, and why materials
and builders are in short supply.
Meanwhile workers’ families remain
without homes. Most workers appear to
bfe so disinterested in politics that they
will continue to vote for socialism until
the day they get orders to report for
duty on some distant Government job.
What happens after that is anybody’s
guess.—F. A. T. (Vic.).
Paint
My “new” weatherboard house,
financed with deferred pay and the
assistance of a bank manager, has not
had a coat of paint for about 10 years.
The previous owner was too busy collect-
ing rent and fighting the war from some-
where along the inner Victorian Line.
In three days I called at five iron-
mongers who deal in paint, a semi-co-
operative trading company which does
likewise, a wholesale hardware firm and
two firms which deal in nothing but
paint and house decorating. Not one of
the nine establishments could offer me a
gallon of white, cream, light brown or
any similar shade of paint. Only two
or three could supply a small quantity of
colored paint suitable for trimmings. All
I wanted was seven gallons to give the
exterior two coats.
Everyone recognises the world shortage
of linseed oil —one man said he knew of
a firm of paint manufacturers which
would supply paint if a customer supplied
linseed oil. But the crux of the problem
appeared to be in the remarks of the
heads of the two businesses dealing ex-
clusively in paints. One comment was,
“X have eight painters on my staff. I
have enough orders on hand to last nine
months. The stocks on hand and those
expected to arrive in that time will not
cover the jobs. If I sold one tin over
the counter I would have to put men off
now.” The other business was in much
the same boat, except that it expected to
have to put men off very soon.
If I were rich I might give an order
to some such firm to paint my house.
Estimates of the cost range from £BO to
£llO, If I could buy the paint and do
it myself it would cost me £l6 to £2O, If
I could buy the paint it might mean
putting a painter out of work straight
away. If I gave an order the firm would
be out of paint before it came to my
house. The same result will occur. One
industry quickly affects another.
Is this the beginning of an unemploy-
ment slump?— Jam (Vic.).,
Juvenile Crime
Brisbane is concerned about the
prevalence of juvenile crime, and sug-
gested remedies range from vague pleas
for “youth leadership” to the inclusion
of sex instruction in school curricula. A
Sunday paper, after interviewing church-
men, psychologists and social workers,
“And if I don't get a bob a Week more I'm Walkin' out an declarin'
the joint 'black.'"
arrived at the conclusion that the four
main reasons for juvenile crime were:
The effect of the war and its atmosphere
of ruthlessness. .
Films s radio broadcasts and comics based
on gangster plots and immoral incidents.
Lack of home life, crowded living quar-
ters, and relaxed parental control. Many
families were broken by divorce and/or the
death of the father in the war.
Undue publicity given to crimes.
One correspondent suggested that not
90 per cent, of boys and girls between
the ages of 14 and 19 could define the
terms of bigamy, arson and rape. This
inspired some genius to conduct experi-
ments in secondary schools which proved
that, although some pupils were uncer-
tain as.to the meaning of the first two
terms, most knew what the third meant.
However, no mean average was obtain-
able, because only three tests were con-
ducted, and one of these was foiled when
the principal of a girls’ high school de-
clined to mention the word “rape” be-
fore her class.
And while the controversy rages all
fail to see that insufficient education— i.e.,
ignorance—is a huge factor in the per-
petration of most crimes. It is a shatter-
ing indictment of our education system
that every year thousands of children
whose parents cannot afford to send them
to secondary school are thrown out into
the world not only mentally bewildered
but ignorant of the functioning of their
own v bodies. The 14-year-old who thus
leaves school is already an escapist. He
has acquired a strong dislike for school
and a disinclination for future study as a
result of the mental (and often physical)
bashing he has received at primary
school. Yet he has a certain subcon-
scious craving for knowledge • which his
teachers, and often his parents, have left
unsatisfied.
If he does not receive this vital instruc-
tion then he must forage it out for him-
self by means of “underground” whispers
and sex-accentuated films which generally
leave him more mystified than before. It
is then that the pseudo-psychologists cry
out against “films, radio broadcasts and
comics.” But, although these may have
a detrimental effect on an unbalanced
mind, they are only tributaries feeding
the great river of ignorance. To forbid
children to view these films is only a
vain endeavor to stem the tide which
must, sooner or later, burst under the
weight of curiosity. A child must not
be debarred from films, but should be
educated so that he may view them with
a discriminating intellect and weigh
them for what they are worth.
There has been a feeble attempt to
establish youth clubs which, if not
properly organised and supervised, will
defeat the very object which they set out
to attain. A 19-year-old myself, I
attended one such gathering held on a
Saturday night at a church. The
clergyman in charge of the -club did not
arrive for the first two hours, during
which time the mob spirit prevailed, and
ample evidence was given that this par-
ticular form of “youth leadership” left
much to be desired. When the clergy-
man eventually arrived some inane games
such as quoits formed the bulk of the
evening’s entertainment.
If youth clubs are to meet with any-
thing like success they must be equipped
to cater for a wide diversity of tastes.
They must provide libraries and gym-
nasia, arrange for outings at little ex-
pense to the individual, furnish interest-
ing and informative lectures and divert
the enthusiasm of youth into construc-
tive channels.
Those who attribute juvenile crime to
lack of home life, effects of war, films.
etc., should realise that such contingencies
are incidental to and inseparable from
life. To eradicate one evil only makes
room for another. The most effective
weapon with which to combat juvenile
and all crime is education. Not until the
school-leaving age is raised, sex instruc-
tion is included in the curriculum and
subjects are taught in a more assimilable
and palatable manner can we expect to
see any considerable abatement in crime.
—M. B. (Q.).


a job, a home
and economic security
Australia’s
Finest
Migrants
An operator in the Broken Hill Proprietary Whyalla Machine Shop.
He is typical of the young Australians who form the majority of
Whyalla’s population.
Built in local sandstone the pleasing home above is representative
of those built for Whyalla’s expanding population.
A *JOB, a home and economic security summarises the
basic desires of the man in the street.
Attainment of this measure of prosperity and progress
brings him well on the way towards the fuller enjoyment
of life; the satisfaction of home ownership and the peace
of mind encouraged by regular employment.
Whyalla, on the western shore of Spencer Gulf, South
Australia, provides a remarkable example of planned indus-
trial and civic development, in which wide opportunities
Lave been created for ambitious Australians keen to prosper.
During the past eight years the town has been trans-
formed by The Broken Hill Proprietary’s establishment there
of blast furnace plant and complete shipbuilding facilities,
the town’s population now being 8000 (six times the 1937
figure).
The townspeople were not neglected in the plan for
Whyalla’s development. Home-building actively led by
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., and the South Aus-
tralian Housing Trust has materially assisted the housing
situation.
Citizens are served by one of the State’s best community
hospitals and a modern technical high school.
Today no Australian town has richer potentialities than
Whyalla for those who set the true valuation in a good job,
a home and economic security. \
The S.S. Delamere, a 2,500-ton freighter, shown being launched at the
Whyalla shipyard.
Smiling nurses with armsfu!
of kabies as shown above at
Whyalla’s modern maternity
hospital typify the town’s pro-
gress. At one stage in the
town’s recent history two
babies were being born every
three days, which enabled
Whyalla to claim Australia’s
highest birthrate per head of
population.
Above: Fine young
Australians romp-
ing on the play-
ground equipment
provided at
Whyalla.
At Left; The Why-
alia blast furnace
plant, with ships
at wharf.
