

z
i
A PRODUCT OF THE
ĵ
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol, 69—No. 3547
Wednesday, February 4, 1948
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W,, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
RELIC OF TWELFTH-CENTURY FAITH IS ST. MARY'S NUNNERY, IONA
pACINO tfee traditional lir-nan-Og, the Land of the Ever
Young, on lona in Scotland’s rainbow west, are these ruins of
St. Mary’s Nunnery built in the twelfth century. In the chapel of
this Benedictine nunnery is the tomb of a prioress, Domina Anna,
who died in 1548. The nunnery stands upon ground which Norse-
men came to regard as sacred: it was called Reilig Odhrain because
many of the ancient Vikings found their last resting place on this
far western isle, along with kings both Norse and Scottish and
many a Highland chief. As well as the tombs of these ancient
warriors in the vicinity of the nunnery there also stand lona’s only
two remaining Celtic crosses. One of these is St. Martin’s and the
other is Maclean’s, which at one time probably had a more
ecclesiastical title. lona also possesses many other links with
long-ago. There are the Foundations, locally known as the
Laithrichean, the Culdee Cell, the hill-fort of Dunbhurig and Glen
of the Church. No doubt these sights must have interested Dr.
Johnson greatly, for during his visit to lona the eminent man slept
in a barn on straw and made no complaint.


j
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 148
AGE
The Red Page
”PACIFIC SEA."
The opening poem of Nan McDonald’s
Pacific Sea (Angus and Robertson), “The
Ship”—
And all ray heart cries after her
Torn wake of shadowed ice and fire
Till her cool timbers touch my lips
And tears of grief long comforted
Shower with the spray of darkening seas
Cold on her lovely, lifting head-
states a theme which runs throughout the
book and which is re-stated at its deepest
level in “The Tollgate Islands”:
White paper gulls blow over me, and vast
And foaming with reefs and shallows the bay
lies
Before me, and he who guides me drives me
fast
And faster yet, past the pleasant inner islands
Decked with curled trees and bracelets of warm
sand,
And will not pause, though looming in my
path—
Demanding what dark fee, what cruel pay-
ment?—■
The Tollgates stand.
The theme is human destiny; in par-
ticular, the author’s. As in onb of Words-
worth’s loveliest sonnets and as in Mase-
field’s poems on the Wanderer, the ship
with its white sail becomes a symbol of
youth and the adventure of poetry, travel-
ling into the future that demands “what
dark fee, what cruel payment?” It is a
theme at once autobiographical and,
applying to any man’s hopes and fears in
life and in eternity, universal; and, in a
first book of poems, as is Pacific Sea, it
might be all the reader could reasonably
ask: the verse, in these two instances, and
also in “The Lightship” and “The Storm-
bird,” having both beauty and a smooth
strength.
But Nan McDonald, a comparatively
recent arrival among the women poets
who are at present giving Australian
poetry a new distinction and grace, has
already more to offer than poems symp-
tomatic of a desire to write poetry.
In the second poem of the book, “The
White Eagle,” where the bird is not an
embodiment of ambition but, simply, a
bird —a thing of natural beauty seen in
that intense light of . poetry which makes
it an image of supernatural glory—the
chief attraction of her verse, beyond its
youthful energy, becomes apparent;
Now far and steeply above us the dusk has
swallowed
The glint of the wiry grass that the boulders
strew,
Echoing no more to the thronged black curra-
wongs’ calling
Where the rose-limbed trees twist out to pattern
the blue.
But the light turns blazing at bay in the last
high fortress
And the walls of yellow sandstone with glory
run,
A crown for the night-gulfed slopes, and a
golden footstool
For the lord of the rocks and the champion
of the sun.
Stainless he rides on the swimming air, and
below him
Roll the vast dim sea and the splendor of the
world;
And the strength of his wing will be gilded,
his breast still blinding
When the citadel falls with its blackened ban-
ners furled.
• •
There is a high and lovely emotional
quality in this poem, and it is expressed
with flawless clarity in a style so modern
in .its directness, so traditional in its
melody that it could not be bettered; but
what is particularly significant is its
beauty as a description of nature. It is a
beauty founded on meticulous observa-
tion —a fidelity as necessary in poetry as
it is in painting: the light “glinting,” for
instance, on “wiry” grass—and these de-
tails (how typical of the Hawkesbury
River country of New South Wales is that
glimpse of the light “blazing at bay” on
the high sandstone ridges at sunset!) are
caught up into the mood of the poem as
they should be, subdued to it, transfigured
by it.
From another writer one might have
another kind of landscape, of a dark and
craggy grandeur as in the poetic oil-
painting of Wordsworth, or rough, solid
and wintrily gleaming as in the short
poems of Edmund Blunden ; but this par-
ticular shining clarity, the wash of
luminous watercolor. is Nan McDonald’s
own.
Pacific Sea is a book of sea and bush
and flowers and birds, and all are de-
scribed with the same captivating lucidity.
Coming across currawongs, sea-eagles,
lyrebirds, shags, stormbirds, wagtails and
the blue crane, palm-trees, coral-trees
(“biting cold sky with scarlet”), jacar-
andas (“blue harvest of heaven, cool as
water, intense as a flame”), pepper-trees,
orchards with a strange fruit of glass fly-
traps, sea-rosemary, lantana and giant
lilies as well as the more familiar gums,
wattles and magpies, one realises how
few of the details of Sydney landscape
have found their way into poetry, and
how much Nan McDonald has done to
fill that curious gap. Like the longer
poems of Wordsworth, her book may be
read right through simply for the
pleasure of its natural descriptions, either
in intimate detail or in the broader vistas
of Hawkesbury bush and South Coast sea:
And in my dream suddenly I remembered
That clear spring morning on the seaward hill
So high our eyes, following the land’s bright
fall
To the beach far below, saw fishing-boats
Tiny as shells, saw the rollers, green inshore,
With all the weight of the blue Pacific in them,
Break gentle as blossoming, silent as snow.
But to claim an excellence of descrip-
tion as the principal merit of a book of
poems is not wholly a commendation. It
is vision, not simply description, we
require from poetry on its highest level;
not scenery but the image. Strictly speak-
ing, as the admirable Matthew Arnold
would say, Wordsworth’s long poems are
defective: they wander, they go flat, they
deviate into unnecessary personal con-
fidences, they moralise; and all these sins
Nan McDonald also commits.
The poetic image in the lyric resembles
(to speak irreverently) an egg: a creation
shapely, compact and shining: a ship as
the symbol of the adventuring soul, a
white eagle as the symbol of towering
delight, the Tollgate Islands as the sym-
bol of disaster, “Skylark Hill” as the
symbol of f’.ie richness of earthly experi-
ence. The poet’s task, if the lyrics are
to rank with those of W, H. Davies or
Walter de la Mare, is the isolation and
clarification of that image so that it will
be indelibly imprinted on the reader’s
awareness. Nan McDonald’s title poem,
“Pacific Sea,” contains a poetic image of
this kind, concerned with surfing:
I am mountaineer of these steep green slopes
and their summits of blinding snow;
I am drunk with the air of the high places and
the hiss of their sparkling wine,
And the sun in the dappled trough of the wave
glints through pricking bubbles to show
My limbs no longer an earth-creature’s, the
brown and the white of my skin
In the gold-green sealight translucent and
strange, the wall of my prison no more
To hide me and hold me apart from the love
and the power that are entering in—
but this enchanting symbol of delight
must be rescued by the reader from a
great deal of superfluous versification
surrounding it: a description of drought;
a train journey (which the author un-
successfully attempts to work up into an
image of hell —but images are not to be
“worked up”); a glimpse of the author’s
feet; and finally, much philosophising.
And all this, surrounding the clear image
of delight, is extraneous. After all,
Wordsworth did not open his sonnet on
Westminster Bridge by telling us how he
cleaned his teeth. The superfluous
material does not make the image more
vivid, but smothers it. The egg is pre-
sented, one may say, as an omelet.
True, one cannot make omelets—that
is to say, long poems—without breaking
eggs. In the narrative or dramatic poem
the single flash of the lyric is sacrificed
for a more complex unity. But iff
“Pacific Sea” and the similarly over-
expanded “Morning Prayer” and the
second half of “Dream and Memory”
Nan McDonald is trying to make an
omelet out of only one egg ; trying to
expand a single flash of inspiration into
a poem far longer than the original
vision justifies. She writes her poem,
then an essay on it. To what leathery and
indigestible versification this tendency will
lead her if it is not disciplined one quo-
tation from “Pacific Sea” should be suffi-
cient indication:
Though indeed that hope was small, for the
thing was planted
In a time of drought, and I have never shone
At gardening.
The fault of Pacific Sea is, in a word,
diffuseness. It is the most amiable of
all faults, and one hesitates to accuse
any writer, particularly an Australian
poet, of writing too much. For major
status bulk of output is essential. But
bulk of the wrong sort —witness poor
Southey—is of no avail. Nan Mc-
Donald’s longish narrative poem “Alison
Hunt,” praiseworthy though it is as a
development from autobiography and
nature poetry into the wider world of
humanity, ingenious though it is in con-
struction and exquisite in its descriptive
passages, fails as a whole for the same
reason as do “Pacific Sea” and “Morn-
ing Prayer”: it is beaten out thin.
Whereas the more compact narratives,
“The Widow” and “Candles,” are, within
their limits, both technically and as the
precise embodiment of the original in-
spiration, perfect.
For long poems of an emotional depth
and complexity to justify the amount of
energy Nan McDonald is willing to ex-
pend on them, we may have to wait. In
the meantime she has produced a book
exceptionally beautiful in its short poems
and, read simply as pastoral poetry,
attractive all the way through.
Queensland Town.
Edith McKay, who, as “E. Dithmack,”
has written for The Bulletin and has
been represented in Coast to Coast, has
coma out with a first novel, The House
of Winston Blaker (Dymocks), in which
she has pleasantly and with an appearance
of ease created a Queensland town.
Claxton, far from the coast, has a
tram, and two large stores, Blaker’s and
Graves’s. Winston Blakar, the central
character, is a strutting, shrewd, self-made
and likeable little man. In the beginning
of the novel, at least, he is seen sympa-
thetically ; glorying in his achievements,
smarting under humiliations and, when his
wife complains that she has neither the
friends nor the polish to achieve social
leadership—she has not the inclination,
but does not say so —Winston, with busi-
nesslike promptitud|, applies pressure on
a bank manager to 8 extract an invitation
for his reluctant wife.
The incident, as a sample of country-
town manners, is overdrawn. There are
several occasions in the book where
shrewd characterisation passes over the
mobile border to caricature. But, on the
whole, the picture is satisfying.
Much of the book is taken up with the
rivalry of the two firms and the under-
lying conflict between two different
methods of business —Graves stands for
old-fashioned dignity; Blaker, though
equally honest, is progressive and a whale
on advertising and sales. Social prestige
and aspirations are concurrently dealt
with and, nicely-adjusted to the theme,
Blaker’s middle-aged passion for a charm-
ing widow from Sydney and the militant
hostility of his daughter Beta ; and this
in turn is bound up with the love affair
of Peta and a youthful Graves.
Something of Winston Blaker’s per-
sonality is shown in his addiction to
rhyming advertisements:
Mrs. Blaker and Peta, well trained to
his routine by now, ate in silence while
Wins thok a mouthful of bacon and eggs,
a bite of toast and a sip of hot coffee,
never for a nfoment taking his eyes off the
printed page. Then he scrubbed his
moustache briskly with his napkin, pushed
the cup aside and said, “Listen to this,
ma,” the inference being that Peta would
also listen. Aloud he read;
“In search of Truth, a man of old
Slept in a cask and caught a cold.
That mattered little, ‘for,’ said he,
‘An honest man I’m sure to see.’
But through the world he searched in vain
Until to Claxton town he came,
And found a man of Wins by name.
An honest draper.”
“Awful doggerel,” said Peta, “but it
serves the purpose, I suppose.”
“What! ” Her father looked up belliger-
ently. “I reckon that’s good. Don’t you
forget I pay Matt Struthers a bob for
every verse he writes.”
A bob, perhaps, is scarcely handsome.
But poets have been paid less. And, it
is subsequently explained, it is not mean-
ness which limits Wins’s payments, but
the belief that a shilling a day is quite
sufficient for the poet to spend on drink.
Minor characters are shrewdly handled ;
Chrissie Mace, the efficient spinster of
uncertain age in charge of a department
in Blaker’s, who frigidly rebuffs Wins’s
lighthearted advances for years until, one
day, to his horror, she takes him seri-
ously ; barbers; shophands ; and a pair
of ladies, one angular, the other stout,
who domineer charitable activities.
But, as the novel progresses and the
plot, as it were, thickens, the country-
town atmosphere, by a like process, takes
charge, and the author appears to lose
her detachment. Winston, after defying
local opinion by installing his mistress in
Claxton, and then openly living with her,
loses money and finally has to sell the
store. Peta, with vindictive righteousness,
opens in opposition to him, hastening the
process, and in this portion of the book
the town, not the author, has taken
charge. An attempt is made to see both
Winston and his mistress sympathetically,
but, sympathetically or coldly, they are
not seen in the round.
There is, after the death of Peta’s
husband and the desertion of Winston by
his mistress, a reconciliation, but, artis-
tically, it is a compromise. Minna, the
quiet and forgiving—and in some ways
commonplace—wife, is the most convinc-
ing character, for, if static, she is at least
consistent. Vacillations of feelings in the
other characters, like the somewhat
abrupt changes in the fortunes of the rival
firms, are not in themselves unplausible,
but are imperfectly recorded and there-
fore incompletely seen. The rich atmos-
phere of the town seems to have blurred
perception and the best literary use is
not made of the splendid human material
country storekeepers and country society
provide. Yet a little of that richness, com-
bined with a surer touch and the neces-
sary detachment, may yet provide a fine
and original Australian novel.
The Missing Tower.
Francis King’s To the* Dark Tower
(Shakspeare Head) is a novel in which all
incidents and characters revolve round
Sir Hugh Weigh, a general living in re-
tirement after a distinguished service
career, some private warfare in South
America, exploring expeditions and a
formidable number of love affairs.
By a literary device as old as Richard-
son the author marshals his characters
in the early part of the book in the form
of extracts from letters and diaries. As
a method it serves well enough—it has,
at least, the virtues of pertinence and
brevity—and the manipulation is suffici-
ently expert to bring clearly into focus
not only the character of Sir Hugh but
the minor and necessary characters of
Judith, his daughter; Miss Shirley Fors-
dyke, the schoolteacher; Croft, the
youthful explorer; S. N. George, the man
of letters ; a pale and intellectual young
stranger who worries Sir Hugh by inter-
viewing him during his morning plunge ;
and other lesser characters such as a
naval cadet who later runs away with
Judith and marries her, and Croft’s
fiancee, “a flat-heeled farmer’s daughter”
who has had a university education and
possesses advanced ideas of the conven-
tional sort.
In a sense all the characters* are minor,
except the dominating character of Sir
Hugh. But so efficient is the author’s
handling of the epistolary method that
within a few pages it is established that
Miss Shirley Forsdyke, who is young,
neurotic and probably plain, is desper-
ately in love with Sir Hugh; that Mark
Croft is freckled and mediocre, but, in
one respect, as an explorer, a challenge
and a torment to the man of action in
Sir Hugh ; that Judith is petted and stub-
born ; and that S. N. George, the middle-
aged man of letters and Sir Hugh’s boy-
hood friend, is charming, cultured and a
bit of an old woman. The characters, if
minor, are interesting.
But character, to be effectively pre-
sented, needs vent in action. Sir Hugh, a
man of action, for the entire first section
of the book —entitled, appropriately
enough, “Figures”—practically confines
himself to thinking and writing. He
bathes strenuously, romps on the beach,
admires Nazi Germany (which S. N.
George does not), plays with dumb-bells
and is unkind to the enamored school-
teacher. Once in a fit of full-blooded
boisterousness he knocks out the front
teeth of his young intellectual friend ; but
these things are not seen but filtered
through the clogging paper of letters and
diaries.
Something more isi needed ; and, valu-
able in a limited sense as the epistolary
opening was, it is with a feeling of dis-
tinct relief that one closes the “Figures”
section: it is time for the figures to act.
They do, but in a manner not fully
satisfying. The next section is retrospect,
a flashback technique which reveals the
life of Sir Hugh as a young man —a wild
young man in Paris, a wild but promis-
ing young subaltern in India. His mis-
tresses and his wife are introduced ; and,
finally, the death of his wife—a prolonged
and painful “wasting-away.” The reader
is given a further insight into Sir Hugh’s
character by the type of upbringing he
provided for his son and his daughter;
Judith had not always been petted, but
had been ignored ; for his son Sir Hugh
devised a Spartan training which included
leaping from building to building from
which exercise the child, not unnaturally,
died.
So far there has been sufficient em-
phasis on Sir Hugh’s peculiarities to
justify a lively and entertaining novel
about a lively and eccentric middle-aged
man. But, underlying this emphasis and
subduing it, is the constant marshalling
of characters in subordination to Sir
Hugh, the stressing of his unique quali-
ties of leadership, which seem, inevitably,
to lit him for some great and dramatic
task-
When Sir Hugh is examined, not in a
few entertaining glimpses of corre-
spondence, but as he appears throughout
the exacting length of the novel, this em-
phasis seems scarcely justified. All the
author’s eggs, it would appear, were in
one basket—the early part of the book:
and when, at the end. Sir Hugh does
nothing more dramatic than bring to a
miserable close his tepid negotiations
with the neurotic schoolteacher the
whole business seems scarcely worth the
trouble of recording. To vary the
metaphor, the author, having started on
a high note, was forced by thorough ex-
haustion or lack of lung-power to lower
it And, however ingenious the drilling
and shuffling of characters, the single
vital character has not, as Matthew
Arnold would put it, found “vent in
action.” Lacking that he lacks life. The
novel does not come to a tower but to
a hollow.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
I
i
S
I
4
m
m
m
A
Men’s Multiple Fitting Department
Ground Floor , George Street,
Sydney men are enjoying the “carpet underfoot” feeling
they get while wearing a pair of Packards. Perfectly
proportioned, they are the special favourites of all men who
regard their feet with tender solicitude. Packards fit to
perfection, withstand roughest wear and always tone
X
smoothly with the sophisticated Sydney setting.
A. —Every measured step taken in a Packard Shoe means utmost comfort
and style. For free and easy walking, wear the Packard no-cap Derby
Shoe. They feature soft, pliable uppers of Black Box Calf or Tan Elk
and genuine welted leather soles. Also Tan Elk with rubber soles.
Available in Multiple Fitting sizes 5 to 12. Price 49/4 pair
Black Glace Kid, leather soles. Price 55/9 pair
B. —The Packard Two-tone Brogues feature uppers of high-grade Brown
and White Elk, leather soles and heels, and are made in fractional
fitting sizes. Have your foot measured and your correct size selected
in our Multiple Shoe Section. Price 55/9 pair
C. —Lasting good looks in the smartest style is yours in this Semi-Brogue
by Packard. They feature uppers of rich Brown Elk and feature the
new punched cap and facing. Because Packard has given this shoe
blucher fronts, you are assured of great toe expansion and greater
comfort. Four fittings. Price 55/9 pair
m
■
ANTHONY HORDERNS
I
’PHONE: M2401, DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712C, G.P.O., SYDNEY


0,5*0 CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO C
A*
71
\
Sweet an d Dry
Cinzano, the world’s Lest Ver-
I ,
mouths and the world’s finest
aperitifs!
ITU
CinZANo •«
JPVehi&utH
lYokrf ni
Si <l " ,AYE ,.. WICHr YOU
FLY
USE
U
Finished In woven-striped, water*
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
is increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
STOP
WEARING GLASSES
Whatever your age, however long you have
worn glasses, or your eyes have troubled
you, Eye Culture can help you. Short
sight—long sight—old-age sight—turned,
tired or strained eyes —glare—headaches
—in fact, almost any eye trouble or dis-
comfort can be remedied by Eye Culture.
NO APPLIANCES, EYE DROPS
OR DRUGS.
Just a simple course of Eye Culture,
which removes congestion from the tissues
and strengthens strained, weakened eye
muscles. This means that soon —usually
from two to six weeks —the eyes com-
mence to improve and glasses become un-
necessary as the eyes gradually regain
their lost vitality and strength.
Eye Culture is more than just eye exer-
cises—it is a treatment based on the
training of the eyes in relation to the
whole system. It is backed by over 16
years’ practice in Australia, and is based
upon commonsense laws of nature. Glasses
weaken the eyes—Eye Culture strengthens
them. Isn’t that what you want?
If you cannot call for a consultation, which
is free, send a 21d. stamped addressed
envelope for our booklet, “Perfect Eye-
sight Without Glasses,” to
EYE CULTURE
No. 26 , St. James Building,
109 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Phone, MA 3167. (Established 1929.)
DANTON 1-WEEK
Shorthand.
Danton method quickly gives 150
words per min. FIRST LESSON
FREE.—Write Danton Shorthand
School (Aust.), 70 King St., Box
1193, G.P.0., Sydney.
Only yonr Savings
HOLD DOWN INFLATION
■S3
a
-cssfr
IT
at
i§ M f
9 »
«
Black-markets and price packets exist because
of selfish competition for scarce commodities.
They create inflationary tendencies which only
successful Price Control and Rationing Systems
can check. <- •
To be successful, those systems demand your
full co-operation . . . shun black-markets; pay no
more than the fixed legal prices; buy only the
things you really need; save all you can, and
invest your savings at better-than-bank interest in
Bonds and Savings Certificates.
By saving you help now to combat inflation,
and you build up funds for enjoyment in the
future.
Savings Certificates
A First-class Investment ...
because (1) yearly increase
in value is better than bank
interest, (2) this increase is
free from taxation, (3) Sav-
ings Certificates are cashable
at any time.
These benefits will con-
tinue to apply also to
maturing War Savings Cer-
tificates—if you hold on to
them.
Buy 5-YEAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
'and make an advance subscription to the next Commonwealth Loan
Measuring bumps to test the
comfort of GOODYEAR TYRES
C
'■
3
&
The sensitive instrument shown here is a Good-
year development used exclusively by Goodyear to
measure the smoothness of a car’s ride.
Fastened to the frame in the rear of the car, it
registers every minute jolt a car gets on the road.
This instrument shows, scientifically and accurately,
exactly how smooth a ride Goodyear Tyres give you.
Results prove that Goodyear provide maximum
riding comfort as well as long mileage and
dependability.
No wonder that for 33 consecutive years Goodyear
Tyres have been the world’s first
choice.
More people,
the world over,
ride on Goodyear Tyres
than on any other make.
C25/16S
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Englishman (28) desires progressive
position; matriculated; experienced
commercial representative, managerial
and general office routine; can drive
car, small capital, excellent refs.,
married, no children. —4195.
Used Christmas cards for children
in hospitals.—4192.
To buy instruction book for 1941
Chevrolet 15cwt. utility.—4191.
To buy copies of Charles Baude-
laire by Francois Porchee (translated
by John Mavin), Egoists by James
Huneker, The Fireside Sphinx by
Agnes Repplier, Contes Cruels by
Villiers de 1’lsle Adams, Contempor-
ary French Poetry and Contemporary
German Poetry, both edited by Jethro
Bithell, early publications of Arthur
Symons, books by and about Rim-
baud, Verlaine and Gerard de Nerval,
and books containing reproductions of
paintings by Toulouse-Lautrec. —4194.
To buy copy of Phallic Worship
by G. Ryley Scott, published by
Werner Laurie, London. —4193.
To buy, exchange or borrow copy
of Saturdee by Norman Lindsay.—
4196.
Words of “Priestcraft” by Henry
Lawson. —4197.
To buy copy of Australian Nursery
Rimes, reprinted from “The Red
Page” of The Bulletin and. pub-
lished in 1917 by Wm. Brooks, Syd-
ney.—4198.
Information Sought.
Origin of the phrases (1) “The
primrose path” and (2) “Appeal from
Philip drunk to Philip sober” ?
(1) Meaning “way to destruction”;
probably from two phrases of Shaks-
peare: “primrose path of dalliance”
in “Hamlet” and “primrose path to
the everlasting bonfire” in “Macbeth.”
(2) Valerius Maximus relates that a
foreign woman undeservedly con-
demned by Philip of Macedon (who
reigned 359-336 B.C., father of Alex-
ander the Great) in his cups, declared
that she would appeal to Philip,
“sed sobrium” —“but when he was
sober.”
* * * *
Flow and when to harvest and store
onions ?
Dig the onions when fully grown
and the foliage has withered. Examine
each bulb carefully for disease or
damage—one tuber will soon affect
the others—and store them in a dry
shed or place them on wire-netting
or slats providing plenty of ventila-
tion. They will also keep if sus-
pended by string from a wire. The
brown varieties are the best keepers
and should not be mixed with the
softer white-skinned sorts.
* * *
In N.S.W. must the verdict of a
jury be unanimous? What happens
in the case of a disagreement ?
In criminal cases the verdict of the
jury must be unanimous. Where
agreement is not reached within 12
hours the jury may be discharged
and the accused tried before another
jury. In civil cases where a unani-
mous agreement has not been reached
after six hours’ deliberation the de-
cision of three-fourths of the jury
shall be taken as the verdict of all;
but if after 12 hours’ deliberation
three-fourths of the jury do not con-
cur, the jury shall be discharged and
the case may be set down for a new
trial.
* * ■ * *
Some particulars about "Lord Howe
Island ?
It is a dependency of N. S. Wales
and is situated about 300 miles east
of Port Macquarie and 436 miles
north-east of Sydney. The island
was discovered in 1788. It is of
volcanic origin, and Mount Gower,
the highest point, reaches an altitude
of 2840ft. The climate and soil are
favorable for the growth of sub-
tropical products, but on account of
the rocky formation of the greater
part of the surface of 3220 acres,
only about 300 acres are arable. The
land has not been alienated, and is
occupied rent-free on sufferance,
being utilised' mainly for the pro-
duction of Kentia palm-seed. The
population is about 150.
Brief Answers.
S.T.N.: Capt. P. G. Taylor was
awarded the George Cross in 1942
to replace the Empire Gallantry
Medal conferred on him for an act
of special heroism in saving the
monoplane Southern Cross and her*
crew during an attempted Australia-
New Zealand flight in May, 1935,
by supplying a disabled engine with
oil from the wing RJ.T.: J. F.
Archibald, founder, with John Haynes,
and first editor of The Bulletin,
was born January 14, 1856, and died
September 10, 1919... .L.J.: A. Jany,
France, swam 100 metres (freestyle)
in 56.5sec.; A. Kiefer, U.S.A., 100
metres (back-stroke) in Imin. 4.8sec.;
and J. Balke, Germany, 100 metres
(breast-stroke) in Imin. 9.4sec
E.O.S.: Without knowledge of the
full four hands it is impossible to
give complete answer. Your two-
diamond bid was certainly “allow-
able,” and in the play probably
brought the best result, but this was
due to the distribution of the cards
in the undisclosed hands. The best


Personal.
BELL, John. —WOULD the relatives of
John Bell, deceased, who is understood to
have been born at Carcoar or Cobar about
1882, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
Divorce Notice,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divoece.
TO GEORGE ALBERT KERBY form-
erly of No. 85 Burdett Street Hornsby.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARY KERBY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 5051
of 1947 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the sth day of April 1948 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from Messrs. ALLAN UTHER
& MANSFIELD, Solicitors, of 350
George Street, Sydney, the Sydney
Agents for MR. JOHN HENRY YELD-
HAM, of 137 Pacific Highway, North
Sydney, the Solicitor for the Petitioner.
—,( r '- s -) J- DOUGHAN, Deputy Regis-
trar.
LONDON and BIRMINGHAM
BRITISH
INDUSTRIES FAIR
1948
MAY 3-14
V-/N May 3rd 1948, when the British Industries Fair-
opens, buyers from all over the world will have an opportunity
of inspecting the products of 3,000 United] Kingdom manu-
facturers.
This annual event is the world’s largest national trade Fair.
Such is its size and importance that you are urged to come
yourself. You are assured of personal contact with actual manu-
facturers or sole selling agents and you will find exhibits carefully
grouped by trades so that comparisons may be made quickly.
Above all you will see new achievements, new methods of
manufacture and new ideas all executed with superb craftsman-
ship.
This is your only opportunity in 1948 to review within a
few days the achievements of 87 United Kingdom industries.
For information and assistance you should apply to
the nearest British Trade Commissioner's Office
Beehive Makers, Woodworkers, Car-
penters, Builders, Cabinetmakers.
The “WOODMACHINCO”
WONDER BENCH
blades, £l7/10/-. Also woodturning lathe
outfit, suit breadboards, chair seats, etc.,
£ 15/10/-. Spindle moulder outfit, suit
Win. cutters, £B/5/-. Jigsaw outfit,
does work of large bandsaw, £l5/10/-.
All air freight free all States.
uw jivvyibb J/ CV UCO
“WOODMACHINCO”
Stanley St., South Brisbane. J 5356.
LOOK!
Immediate
Delivery,
assembled to de-
/ tailed plan. All
mechanical parts, includ-
ing saw and planer
It saws, ' rips,
crosscuts, planes,
rabbets, tongue
and grooves,
sands, drills
holes, makes
mouldings, etc.,
etc. Ballrace
mounted, easily
STAMMERERS.
STUTTERERS.
AND NERVOUS SPEAKERS
are earnestly invited to
send for particulars of
THE MAGIC ALPHABET
The lessons of which are
specially compiled for
Home Study.
PHILIP O’BRYEN HOARE
M.8.1.M.5c. (London)
Consulting Specialist in
Speech and Nervousness
270 Queen St., Brisbane, Aust.
RtUtf'
blotchy'
SKIN
marrqd by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cutdcura Ointment, It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Caticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder. .. 533
ĵ
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE—
Without Calomel—And You’ll Jump
Out of Bed in the Morning Full of
Vim.
The liver should give out two
pounds of liquid bile daily or your
food doesn’t digest. You suffer from
wind. You get constipated. Your
whole system is poisoned and you feel
irritable, tired, and weary and the
world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills
to get those two pounds of bile
working and make you feel “up and
up.” Harmless, gentle, yet amazing
In keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver
Pills by name. Stubbornly refuse
anything else. 3/- and 1/3.
w
i m:
SC&L DODGE
-■v'v
‘■W4
fie Soto
W
DODGE
TRUCKS
FAneor/ium =
r*
i
—p.
\w
m
fj
>A (
%
&
:
3
m
1
A
>
i
%
i.h
C.D.D. is 100% Australian. Member Companies are all
Australian organisations, known and esteemed in their respec-
tive spheres for many years. The three major factory plants
acquired by C.D.D. were Australian founded, and today
employ thousands of Australians in the manufacture of bodies
and chassis components for Chrysler, Dodge, De Soto and
Plymouth Cars and Dodge and Fargo Trucks. C.D.D. the
largest all-Australian industry of its kind is destined to ploy
a role of ever-increasing importance to the nation's economy
and security. Even now, the company's potential is equal to
greater achievements, and the progressive policy of C.D.D. will
ensure that this potential is steadily increased and used to
the utmost in building Australia's industrial prestige.
RYSLER
ODGE
ESOTO
DISTRIBUTORS LIMITED
Manufacturers of Motor Bodies and Chassis Components
MEMBER COMPANIES: • Sydney: York Motors Pty, Ltd., Buckle Motors (Trading
Company) Pty. Limited, Harden and Johnston Limited. •Melbourne: Lane's Motors
Pty. Ltd., Automobiles Pty. Ltd., Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic ) Pty Ltd
® Brisbane: Austral Motors Pty Limited, Stradbroke Motors Pty. Limited.’
® Adelaide: Waymouth Motor Company Limited, Flinders Motors Limited.
Pe i u Wmterbottom Motor Company Limited, Wentworth Motors Limited.
• Hobart’: Co-Operative Motors Limited, H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
CD]B Metro Motors Pty. Ltd.
V 1
IDI
CHRYSLER
DODGE
DE
SOTO
PLYMOUTH SS DODGE TRUCKS IHi I FARGO TRUCKS
i*ss~f l=—:=:=
call would have been one no-trump,
showing your partner that you had
general strength and diamonds
covered. If partner then called a
suit you could show your diamonds,
leave it in his suit or recall no-trumps.
A double would be a poor call, sug-
gesting general strength, but lacking
diamonds M.A.: (1) Sodium salicy-
late is in common use for the treat-
ment of certain forms of arthritis,
particularly those associated with
rheumatic fever. (2) From 10 to 30
grains every four hours P.D.:
Jack Dempsey won the world’s heavy-
weight championship from Jess Wil-
Ifrd : ' n July, 1919, and successfully
defended the title against all comers
until Gene Tunney outpointed him
in 10 rounds -on September 23, 1926.
....E.M.: Bolivia, Peru, Uruguay
and Ecuador all severed diplomatic
relations with Germany during the
1914-18 war without declaration of
war T.H.P.: James Brown, aged
29, a native of Ireland, was killed at
Eureka on December 3, 1854, during
the fight led by Peter Lalor
H.F.8.: The apparent angle of the
moon is due to the relative positions
of the sun, moon and earth, and
varies regularly throughout the year.
It has nothing to do with the weather.
K.W.: To prepare sauerkraut cut
a cabbage into slices and put these
into a large basin with water for
half an hour. Then drain and place
the slices in a casserole in which a
finely-minced onion has just been
lightly fried in oil. Blend well and
moisten with strong white vinegar.
Continue cooking on fiot-too-quick
a fire for an hour and a %a1f....
A.A.: Write Chief Secretary’s De-
partment, Sydney, for pamphlet “The
Smoking and Salting of N.S.W. Fish.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contri-
butions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany. MS, should be addressed to the Editor,
R.M.N.: Indescribably inept....
I. : Send pars. Entomb verses....
A. 0.: Prefer you in less sublime
moods... .V.F. : “I have fifteen
written on various subjects.” You
might as well have stopped at thir-
teen .... J.D.: The usual sunset....
J. Thoughtful and a bit flat
John D.: John, don’t... .E.H.: The
ballad of how little Johnny stole the
cake has been spanked and sent to
bed... .H.G.P.: Pleasant, thin and
dated... .M.C.; Suitable only for a
pigeon-fanciers’ paper, if there is one.
.... Riverbender: Sonnet laborious.
Bellerive: On with the show:
• ...D.H.T.: Read some of this cen-
tury’s poetry S.R.: “I am a
mongrel; a lady guest said that she
had never seen such a funny-shaped
dog.” Still, you write very well....
R.F.J.: “Wanderlust” wanders in
every week; the others might make
pars M.E.C.: About as delicate
as an army boot... .M.P.: No room
for articles. You could try Abo. pars.
E.L.A.: No hand-outs for that
traveller and his performing dog
W.W.: As much as we like two-up,
a 10,000-words description of a game
would be carrying our admiration too
far AJ.B.: A literary flop....
D.M.: It’s many years since we re-
ceived a story about a brawl at a
wake; yours is no better than the
ones we were sent in the long ago
P.R.T.: Perhaps we’re dull, but we
could see no point in your rambling
effusion... .C.B.: We sprinkled it
with lavender-water, wrapped it up
in the mauve tissue-paper in which
it arrived and sent it home....
D.S.M.: You’ll have to do a lot
better than that..,. MX: Sorry,
Dorothy Parker got in ahead of
you O.C.: A little too rough.
....T.V.T.: Sorry, but Susan
didn’t bewitch us D.S.: A pale
slice of sentimentality R.O.A.:
Same old hero and heroine in same
old setting.... C.A.: No F.S.:
Where’s the humor in that?
M. : Dull and rambling and we
didn’t fancy the O. Henry ending....
N. An average yarn that might
find a market elsewhere W.L.C.:
Central character unreal.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.K.: Whoever told you that
we would “snap them up” is no
judge of our requirements T.A.:
Just a bunch of nightmares F.C.:
Gag about the man with the wooden
leg is as ancient as the first wooden
leg L.M.: Take lessons, study
hard you might get somewhere.
R.J.C.: The last artist who
turned in that wheeze was obliterated
one morning at sunrise A.B.R.:
You can’t draw a cigarette kiosk;
doubt whether you can draw a
cigarette-bumper... .K.W.: It won’t
be used this coming Easter, nor any
other, if we can help it A.L.A.:
You forgot to give the lady any
arms... .E.S.N.: Looks like a design
for a stained-glass window for a sly-
grog joint....M.B.S.: Didn’t the
same pug take the count in the same
fashion a few months ago? V.P.:
You would be better employed play-
ing marbles or collecting bottle-tops.
F.G.A.: Jest had its 100th birth-
day some time last year.
TENT-SHOW PERFORMERS.
Pleasure is pleasure
Wherever you go—
Step in, dear friends.
And see the show.
See the freak dog
By the name of Wail
Stand on he’s head
And wag he’s tail,
The human marvel
The great acrobat.
Tumble, twist and
Leap like a cat.
Step in and see
Our dancing girl
Glide on her toes
And rapidly twirl.
Behold the professor,
The master of tricks
Juggle a bowl on
A couple of bricks
While fiddler Val
Doth sweetly play
Over the hills
And far away.


HAY
BY E. O. SCHLUNKE.
THE Kleinert boys, being keen of eye,
and devoted to the cheapest kind of
blood sports, were the first to notice
Weismann taking long walks in his
big wheat-paddock.
Because the crop was tall and dense,
they could see little more than his head,
and at first suspected that it was an
emu. But emus are prone to stops and
starts, to meaningless wanderings hither
and thither, and circuitous pursuits
of each other by means of which they
knock down about 50 times as much
wheat as they eat; and the object in the
crop was obviously walking straight along
a drill wheel-track, which indicated very
positively to the Kleinerts that it was the
owner, taking stock of his crop and not
breaking down one more stalk than was
necessary.
They speculated (from a purely tech-
nical angle) about the possibility of bring-
ing him down with a .303, then, getting
more serious, began to discuss the chances
of Weismann selling the crop for hay, in
which case there would be a nice bit of
money available for stocking, and the
Kleinerts were not averse to a bit of
money, provided it didn’t take too long
to earn it.
MRS. WEISMANN was also watch-
ing him, and worrying, as she
always did when he had a particularly
good crop, for several reasons.
One was that her husband might be-
come “so puffed-up with sinful pride that
God would send fire or storm to destroy
it utterly” ; the other was that he might
not get all the money he could for it, and
so shame her before the neighbors who
talked so knowingly and so possessively
about other people’s business each Sun-
day at the Hopetoun Lutheran church.
Her husband had, for instance, an un-
comfortable notion about selling an out-
standing wheat-crop for hay, “because
that left a lot of the ‘good’ in the soil,”
rather than letting it mature for grain.
But she had heard the mean and success-
ful Schaeffel say on this matter, “Myself,
I’d sooner have the money in the bank,”
and that seemed to her to be the highest
wisdom.
There were other considerations too ;
she would have to feed all the men
needed to do the hay-cutting- and
stocking, and after that the chaff -
cutting outfit would come with its crew
of drunken blasphemers who brought no
blessing to a farm, and who always failed
to return anything they borrowed from
her.
But when she saw her husband arriving
back from his walk she knew that he
had made up his mind again. Even at a
distance She could see it in his step,
which was always a bit faster than any
other man’s and about twice as fast as
any of his employees, no matter how
carefully he chose them. But now he was
positively racing, swinging his arms
jerkily, his head high and eager. When
he came closer she saw the “sinful pride”
in his dark brown eyes.
He was carrying a “sample” in one
hand ; an entire wheat plant pulled up by
the roots, to show not only the height,
but also how well it had “stooled.” He
held it up smilingly for her admiration,
but she said nothing.
Many years ago she had discovered
that his samples were apt to be a bit
better than the average of the crop, and
that /was another of her reasons for fear-
ing that his good crops were bad for
his immortal soul. But he was not put
out by her attitude.
“My word, it’s a bonzer crop. Thick
as a brush and as tall as my shoulders
all over,” he said, with such gratification
in his face that it looked quite boyish
despite the lines and the grey in his hair.
“I think I’ll sell it for hay. It will go
two and a half tons to the acre.”
A pained expression appeared on Mrs.
Weismann’s face. The manager of the
Experiment Farm had once said in a
lecture that it was very rare for a crop
in their district to average over two tons
of hay per acre, and he was another of
her much-respected authorities.
“Besides,” said Weismann, though he
obviously didn’t think the justification
necessary, “it’s always a big help with
the wheat harvest to get one paddock out
of the way early.”
Then he hurried past her into the
house. “I’ll have to telephone the buyers,”
he said. .
NEXT day the hay merchant arrived
at the house. He was a fat, fluent,
high-pressure type, full, up to his double
chin, of self-assurance. He told the Weis-
manns, over a hospitable cup of tea, that
this being a good year there was plenty
of hay about. He only had to lift a
finger and dozens of farmers would come
rushing him to take theirs for whatever
he liked to pay them. The reason, he
was cunning enough to know, was that
the frost had caught a lot of the tall, early
wheat crops, making them valueless for
grain, and that had a very depressing
effect on the market.
“Very unfortunate that, very unfor-
tunate,” he said to Mrs. Weismann, who
began to look even more depressed than
the hay market.
Then he cocked a very knowing eye
at Weismann and said:
“I suppose the frost’s got yours, too.”
At which Mrs. Weismann started with
alarm and apprehension. But Weismann
said calmly:
“No, the frost didn’t touch it.”
“Ah, well,” said the merchant toler-
antly, “that’s what they all say. We’ll
have to go and look at it.”
As he and Weismann rose to go Mrs.
Weismann whispered to her husband:
“Take care. That man will talk you
into anything.”
But he gave her a reassuring smile and
said, loudly enough for Lackey to hear;
“It’s only his ‘buyer’s’ talk. It doesn’t
signify anything.”
Joe Lackey laughed loudly to show
what a good sport he was, but there was
an undertone of ruefulness in it.
They had a good look at the crop, and
after vain attempts to prove that it was
“frosted” and that it was suffering in
part from “footrot” and “take-all,” and
objecting to the quantity of clover and
trefoil at the base, Lackey had to admit
that it was an excellent crop. He liked it
so much that he was truly regretful that
he could offer no more than two pounds
per ton in the stock.
Weismann told him, in an equally
regretful tone, that he could get well over
a pound an acre more by selling it for
grain (and with considerably lower har-
vesting costs), so Mr. Lackey would have
to go and buy his hay from the frost-
bitten farmers.
But Lackey discovered a great senti-
mental desire to acquire Weismann’s crop
—Weismann being an old customer and
so on —and as they walked home he
squeezed out one reluctant rise after the
other, while Weismann repeated indiffer-
ently what he could get for wheat. In
the end, after an hour’s futile talk, they
made a deal at Weismann’s price, and
Lackey rushed off in a hurry, looking
determined to be more effective with his
next farmer.
When Mrs. Weismann heard the price
she nearly forgot herself and admired
her husband to his face. But she remem-
bered to ask about such vital details as
“weather risks” and “time penalties,” to
be horrified on discovering that he had
laid himself open to calamitous losses
should heavy rain fall or his cutting be
delayed by mechanical or other troubles.
“I don’t know why you must make
such agreements,” she said wildly. “All
the worry you bring on yourself!”
“You get the highest price that way,”
he said, smiling at her in his strong mas-
culine way, “and, anyway, it mightn’t
rain, and I might get it cut and stocked
in time. I’ll run around in the car now
and see what neighbors I can get to help.”
HE went first to Albert Schwartz, who
had a reasonably good binder and a
couple of grown lads who were useful
stookers. The Schwartzes were small wiry
men with sharp features and hot aggres-
sive eyes, and all had a great deal of
“go.” Schwartz guessed immediately
what Weismann wanted and took up a
very unhelpful attitude; he was a man
who derived little pleasure from his
friend’s good fortune.
“Just getting me binder ready to do
me own cutting,” he said. “Got to be
done now or all the b black oats
will b well ripen and fall out.”
“Well,” said Weismann, very sympa-
thetically, “if your crop is so bad, I
wouldn’t ask you to risk leaving it.”
“It’s not so damn bad,” Schwartz
flared up, “but why should I go helping
another man to make a b fortune
when I’ve got plenty of work to do on me
own farm?” And then, when Weismann’s
eye strayed to Fred and Tom,' who were
watching with puppyish imitations of their
father’s emotions on their sharp young
faces, he added sharply, “And for me
boys, too.”
“Yes, that’s right,” Weismann agreed.
“There’s plenty of work to do, no matter
how large the family. You really ought
to have a dozen like Charlie Hartwig.”
Then while Schwartz was still glower-
ing, undecided how to take it, he turned
to Schwartz’s binder.
“Never did like that make,” he said
conversationally. “This one’s pretty
old, too.”
“It’s b old,” Schwartz exploded.
“But it’s damn good.”
“I never could understand,” Weismann
continued, “how a knotter that works that
way could ever tie a sheaf properly.”
“Liebe Gott,” said Schwartz, going
back to some ancestral oaths for the
sake of variety. “Haven’t you seen me
cutting hay, year after year, and just
through your boundary-fence if you
wasn’t too stuck up to look?”
“But it’s a different matter just cutting
twenty or thirty acres for yourself than
have a 250-acre paddock to cut down
in a week. It’s easy enough to talk, but
if I was to say to you, ‘There’s my binder
and Schaeffel’s and yours all starting in
that paddock on Tuesday, and now we’re
going to see whose binder is going to
cut the most, instead of just skiting about
how much we can do,’ what would you
say then? ‘l’ve got my own twenty
acres to cut, and that’s going to take me
and the boys all the season.’ That’s
what you’d say,” Weismann said, nodding
his head in profound agreement with
himself.
“Would you like to have a little bet
on it? You’ve been doing a lot of talking
too,” Schwartz said, very red in the face
and fiery of eye.
“I’m not a betting man,” Weismann
said gravely, “but I’ll tell you what I’ll
do. I’ll divide the paddock into three
equal parts ; well start all the binders off
together, and whoever finishes first gets
a bonus of a shilling per acre.”
Schwartz turned gleefully and winked
at his boys, who also knew that, given
equal chances, no one could get near a
Schwartz.
“You might as well hand over the
money now,” he said to Weismann.
ON the farm of the mean and succes-
ful Schaeffel, his boy, Gus, was driv-
ing a brand new binder in an excellent
crop of oats and making a great job of
it. Gus was an expert on getting the best
out of a binder, though there wasn’t
much else that could be said in his favor.
He had a dull yokel-like face with a big
red nose and weak, hesitant eyes. He
needed a shave and his hair was so long
that the ends had started to curl under.
He was dressed in shapeless blue dungaree
blouse and pants as if he was trying his
hardest to look like the European peasant
his grandfather had been before he
migrated to Australia.
Weismann stopped him to ask where
his father was, and in a few moments
Schaeffel appeared, thrusting his way
through the oat-crop, which was higher
than his face, and, despite his frantic
hurry, dreadfully perturbed lest he should
knock any of it down.
He was full of indignation because Gus
had stopped working.
“You keep going, and don’t stop unless
I tell you to,” he said, addressing Gus
as if he was a badly-behaved child, though
Gus was a paragon of industry and well
into the twenties. “Do you want to talk
business?” he demanded of Weismann.
Weismann nodded. “Hey, Gustav! Come
here and witness.”
“I’ve come to see if you will take on
a hay-cutting contract with me,” Weis-
mann said. “I’m offering 6s. an acre,
and if Gus can do more than the others
he’ll get a few pounds’ bonus as well —
for a bit of pocket-money.”
Gus looked hopefully interested, and
his father became annoyed.
“What does he want with pocket-
money?” he demanded, Gus looked
abashed.
“You might get over £2O out of less
than a week’s work,” Weismann said.
“That would be making the new binder
pay for itself.”
The idea of making a machine pay for
itself appealed strongly to Schaeffel, so
Weismann drew up an agreement on the
back of an envelope he happened to have
in his pocket, which was duly signed by
the interested parties, and witnessed by
Gus.
THEN Weismann went on to, look for
more stookers. Two of the Kleinerts
were eager to come and ready, having
heard the news by the gossip channel.
From there he went to Harry Dent.
Harry was a chubby fellow with mild
brown eyes who was pleased to help a
neighbor. He would bring his brother,
too, he said.
When Weismann returned home he
gave his family detailed instructions about
their part in the big effort. All the
neighbors were to be fed during the day ;
morning-tea at 9.30, dinner at 12.30 and
afternoon-tea at 4 p.m. Mrs. Weismann
had it all already planned and her
daughter also knew that in an emergency
like this all thoughts of tennis matches
and social outings had to be abandoned.
Young Otto, not long finished high
school and settling down to farm-work
in such easy stages that the Hopetoun
people were confirmed in their opinion
that “college spoiled a boy for work,” was
caught up in the turmoil and given the
job of bringing out the meals for the men,
twine for the binders, and changes of
horses for his father’s binder, which was
to be driven by the permanent hand,
Alf Wunderwitz. The horses worked in
shifts, but Alf and the binder were to
keep going all the time. The other
binder-drivers would also bring spare
teams with them each morning.
NEXT morning the three binders were
ready for the start, Schwartz’s
binder, with its ragged canvas, very
shabby-looking beside the brand new
paint of Schaeffel’s binder. But Schwartz
himself was full of confidence, although
he did express discontent with the area
allotted to him.
Alf Wunderwitz was a tried and ex-
perienced farm-worker. He knew as
much about farming as any landowner,
as he was prepared to assert at any
time, and the only reason why he hadn’t
a farm of his own was his appalling bad
luck. Alf was fond of detailing his bad
luck in a sepulchral voice ; but since he
had been working for Weismann for 20
years and still didn’t look more than
middle-aged there was some doubt, both
as to the authenticity of these stories and
Alf’s willingness to start bn his own.
Soon two of the Kleinert boys arrived
to help with the stocking. They were
delighted to find that Schwartz was in-
volved in a challenge which he would
probably lose. They ragged him about
his old binder, asking him if he hadn’t
bought it second-hand from a man who
was using it as a hen-roost.
They were large, light-hearted lads with
a profound disrespect for, small, bad-
tempered men, and soon they had goaded
Schwartz into betting them that his boys
would “stock more than yous, for all
your bloody size and long tongues.”
Weismann looked on indulgently at
all that was developing.
FOR the first day the work went well,
with no decided advantage to any of
the binders. Sometimes Schwartz would
have mechanical trouble —for which he
blamed the “sappy” crop and the quantity
of clover gumming up his knife but he
jumped up and down like an excited
monkey at the end of the emergency
handle, then made his horses trot to catch
up lost time. . ■
His horses were small, like his boys, and
just as excitable. They soon overhauled
the other teams, although they sweated
and panted in a manner that made both
Alf and Gus watch them in concern every
time they went by.
The Schwartz boys scampered along,
keeping well ahead of the Kleinerts, who
strode with easy swinging steps, enjoying
the warm sun and paying scrupulous atten-
tion to all sorts of insect life—demoralised
spiders tied up in sheaves, flustered lady-
birds —even stopping and listening to sky-
larks. Sometimes Weismann came by to
stir them along, and then, putting forth
their great strength and reach, they over-
hauled the Schwartzes easily, to the
(Continued on page 32.)


ngs
m
in
-V
Give me a skinny, pepless, second-rate body— and I’ll
cram it so full of handsome, bulging new muscle thaf
your friends will grow bug-eyed! . . . I’ll wake up that
sleeping energy of yours and make it hum like a high-
powered motor! Man, you’ll fee/ and look different!
You’ll begin to LIVE!
y
Actual photograph of the
man who holds the title “The
World’s Most Perfectly De-
veloped Man”.
I
I
&
m
'mm
mm
mm
m
mm
Hi
mm
mm
m
:• - v
** . ' *. • *.
>: '• -
-
MAIL
COUPON
FOR
FREE BOOK
m
mm
m
CHARLES ATLAS Dept. ENIA. -
115 East 23rd St., New York 10, N. Y., U. S. A ■
I want the proof that your system of “Dynamic Tension " §
will help make a New Man of me give me a healthy, _
husky body and big muscular development. Send me |
your free book, “Everlasting Health and Strength”
I
(Please print or write plainly)
Address.
City
or
Town Country.
I
■a
Let Me Make YOU a NEW MAN
-IN JUST 15 MINUTES A DAY
You wouldn’t believe it, but I myself used to be a 97-lb. weakling. Fellows
called me “Skinny”. Girls snickered and made fun of me behind my back.
I was a flop. THEN I discovered my marvelous new muscle-building
system— “ Dynamic Tension”. And it turned me into such a complete speci-
men of MANHOOD that today I hold the title “THE WORLD’S MOST
PERFECTLY DEVELOPED MAN”.
That’s how I traded in my “bag pf bones” for a barrel of muscle! And
I felt so much better, so much on top of the world in my big, new, husky
body, that I decided to devote my whole life to helping other fellows change
themselves into “perfectly developed men”.
What Is “Dynamic Tension”? How Does It Work?
When you look in the mirror and see a healthy, husky, strapping fellow
smiling back at you then you’ll be astonished at how short a time it takes
“Dynamic Tension” to GET RESULTS!
“Dynamic Tension” is the easy, NATURAL method you can practice
in thb privacy of your own room—JUST 15 MINUTES EACH DAY—
while your scrawny shoulder muscles begin to swell, ripple . . . those
spindly arms and legs of yours bulge ... and your whole body starts to feel
“alive”, full of zip and go!
One Postage Stamp May Ch'ange Your Whole Life!
As I’ve pictured up above, I’m steadily building broad-shouldered,
dynamic MEN—day by day —the world over.
2,000,000 fellows, young and old, have already gambled a postage stamp
to ask for my FREE book. They wanted to read and see for themselves
how I’m building up scrawny bodies, and how I’m paring down fat, flabby
ones—how I’m turning them into breath-taking human dynamos of pure
MANPOWER.
Take just a few seconds NOW to fill in and mail the
coupon at right, and you will receive at once my FREE
book—“ Everlasting Health and Strength” that PROVES
with actual snap-shots what “Dynamic Tension” has done
for others —what it can do for YOU! Write: CHARLES
ATLAS, 115 East 23rd Street, New York 10, N. Y.. United
States of America. (Address Dept. ENIA).
FREE
Mail the coupon below
right now for my FREE
illustrated book, “Ever-
lasting Health and
Strength”. Tells all about
“Dynamic Tension ’’
methods. Crammed
with pictures, facts!
Address me personally:
CHARLES ATLAS, 115
E. 23rd St., New York
10, N. Y., United States
of America (Address
Dept. ENIA).


j
ms
m
Why drag around, dull, listless and sluggish?
Why tolerate that sick headachey feeling, that
miserable bilious condition? You must clear
your system of poisonous wastes before
you can feel right or be right. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, gentle in action, will
help promote the daily regularity so essen-
tial for toning up the liver and kidneys. The
ingredients are purely vegetable and act as a
general corrective of constipation. Try a dose
to-night and see how much better you feel
to-morrow. Ask for and insist on, Dr, Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
DR.MORSES
yott
The British Labour Minister, in intro-
ducing the “194 C Assurance Companies
Act,” stated that “The 1940 Act”: —
“Acknowledges the inherently in-
ternational and comprehensive char-
acter of insurance.”
The Labour President of the Board of
Trade in the House of Commons also
stated that it would be proper to inform
the House of the attitude of the Labour
Government toward the future of British
Insurance business. The Government, he
stated, had no intention of interfering
with the transaction of Insurance business
by private enterprise. It is, he stated,
the desire- of the Government that Insur-
ance should be, in the future, as in the
past, dealt with on an international basis
and as business of an international
character.
FOB 69 YEARS
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution, has been
providing security for the homes of
the people.
EIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Money Worries
W 0
v ,:- !
r
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, come in
and talk it over.
RURAL BANK
Head Office i Martin Place, Sydney.
UHCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE MARSHALL PROGRAMME.
How the U.S. Secretary of
State himself sees that stupen-
dous proposal the Marshall Plan
(or European Recovery Pro-
gramme) ; additional or more
complete excerpts from his
speech than appeared in cables:
This programme will cost [the U.S.]
billions of dollars. It will impose a
heavy burden on the American tax-
payer. It will require sacrifices today
in order that we may enjoy security
and peace tomorrow. Should the
Congress approve the programme for
European recovery, as I urgently re-
commend, we Americans will have
made an historic decision of our
peace-time history.
A nation in which the voice of its
people directs the conduct of its
affairs cannot embark on an under-
taking of such magnitude and sig-
nificance for light or purely senti-
mental reasons. Decisions of this
importance are dictated by the highest
considerations of national interest.
Jffiere are none higher, I am sure,
than the establishment of enduring
peace and the maintenance of true
freedom for the individual.
So long as hunger, poverty, des-
peration and resulting chaos threaten
the great concentrations of people in
Western Europe—some 270,000,000
—there will steadily develop social
unease and political confusion on
every side.
Left to their own resources there
will be, I believe, no escape from
economic distress so intense, social
discontents so violent, political con-
fusion so widespread and hopes of
the future so shattered that the his-
toric base of Western civilisation, of
which we are by belief and in-
heritance, an integral part, will take
on a new form in the image of the
tyranny that we fought to destroy
in Germany.
Dollars will not save the world —
but the world today cannot be saved
without dollars.
The Paris report of the Committee
of European Economic Co-operation
was a notable achievement. For the
first time in modern history represen-
tatives of 16 nations collectively dis-
closed their internal economic con-
ditions and frailties and undertook,
subject to stated conditions, to do
certain things for the mutual benefit
of all. The commitments each made
to the other, if faithfully observed,
will produce in Western Europe a
far more integrated economic system
than any in previous history.
The problem we face is enormously
complex. It affects not only our
country and Europe but almost every
other part of the globe.
In the post-war period artificial
and forcible reorientation to the
Soviet Union of Eastern European
trade has deprived Western Europe
of sources of foodstuff and raw
material from that area. Here and
there the present European situation
has been aggravated by unsound or
destructive policies pursued in one
or another country, but the basic dis-
locations find their source directly in
the war.
The inability of the European
workshop to get food and raw
materials required to produce the
exports necessary to get the purchas-
ing power for food and raw materials
is the worst of the many vicious
circles that beset the European
peoples.
Notwithstanding the fact that in-
dustrial output, except in Western
Germany, has almost regained its
pre-war volume, under the changed
conditions this is not nearly enough.
The loss of European investments
abroad, the destruction of merchant
fleets, and the disappearance of other
sources of income, together with in-
creases in populations to be sus-
tained, make necessary an increase
in production far above pre-war
levels, even sufficient for a living
standard considerably below pre-war
standards.
This is the essence of the economic
. , c r TU - .
problem of Europe. This problem
ev< L 3 th ° t hp h
struggles in Europe between those
who want to live as free men and
fhose small groups who aspire to
c,® 1 ! 1 *! 1316 by the mcthod 0 po 1 0
■
w 2f ld t jj
Europe were 7;°P erad J|
„ - • d the P Communist
Soviet Un on and the Communist
g,"““opposi.For'o ? Euro-
economic recovery. Economic
U . . employed to further
2 , J.
*
xhe sooner t his programme can
get under way the greater its chances
sllccess y
interim-aid law which the
r “ last December was
Congress as a ston-gap to
desired as e r io d unSF April 1 of
cover th~ periodl until April l
mis year. Unless tne programm
can be placed in operation on
soon after April 1, there will,
undoubtedly, be a serious deteriora-
tion in some of the basic conditions
FEAST FOR THE WORLD.
( One of the few remaining pillars of all-out isolationism, Chicago
“ Tribune ” sticks to its guns against the Marshall Plan.)
Qn w hi c h the whole project is
pre( jj ca t e( j[
nronosed that the Congress
nQ “ l ut Ks e th? progfanVme 8 for
.•*„ f.,11 4-L.vpar duration although
„ nDroDr ; at j 4 or!S are being’ requested
c PP P fifteen months,
y , decisions on aonropriations
wdl afford full opportunity review
anQ co
Taking as the basic genuine Euro-
co^opera tion—the maximum of
Jclf-hclp and mutual help on the
q P thg part i c i pat i n g European
coun t r i es the programme aims to
provide these countries, until the end
1952> with those port i o ns
SSS-SSw for. ,
These essential imports include not
only the food, fuel and other sup-
ductive capacity.
In each succeeding year of the
programme increased production and
increased trade from Europe is ex-
pccted to reduce the amount ot
assistance needed, until after mid-
-1952, when it is calculated that the
participating countries will have re-
covered ability to support them-
selves.
The programme of $6.8 billion for
the first 15 months has been com-
puted with precision. This amount
does not represent a generous esti-
mate of requirements. The total
estimated cost of the programme is
now put at somewhere between Sis.l
to $17.8 billions. But this will de-
pend on developments each year, the
progress made and unforeseeable
variations in the weather as it affects
crops. The over-all cost is not
capable of precise determination so
far in advance.
In developing the programme no
question has been more closely ex-
amined than the ability of the United
States to provide assistance in the
magnitudes proposed. Both in terms
of physical resources and in terms
of financial capacity, our ability to
support such a programme seems
clear.
The $6.8 billion proposed for the
first 15 months is less than a single
month’s charge of the war. A world
of continuing uneasy half-peace will
create demands for constantly-mount-
ing expenditures for defence. This
programme should be viewed as an
investment in peace. In those terms,
the cost is low.
We cannot expect any democratic
Government to take upon itself obli-
gations or accept conditions which
run counter to the basic national
sentiment of its people. This pro-
gramme calls for free co-operation
among nations mutually respecting
one another’s sincerity of purpose in
the common endeavor —a co-opera-
tion which we hope will long outlive
the period of American assistance.
, What are the prospects of success
of such a programme for the
economic recovery of a continent?
It would be absurd to deny the
existence of obstacles and risks,
Weather and the extent of world
crops are unpredictable. The pos-
sible extent of political sabotage and
the effectiveness with which its true
intentions are unmasked and thus
made susceptible to control cannot
be fully foreseen.
y unprecedented endeavor of the
New WorM tQ heip the old is ne ither
sure nor easy. It is a calculated
risk. But there can be no doubts
as to the alternatives. The way of
life that we have known is literally
in the balance. If we decide that the
United States is unable or unwilling
effectively to assist m the reconstruc-
Xt^Squ^To^.s
hpsftato .fie dictatorship ot police
atntes.
Congress, not without dust
now c° n side r in g the
-I '
Times has pointed out: For
rnonths ahead the 1948
m resident i a i election] political
H 51 . J t ~
battle will figure in virtually
every decision made in Wash-
jm,ton.” Hence the importance
* 3 f o n ow i ns factors •
or me lonowint, xacturs.
The programme will affect prices
[in the U.S.] because it calls for
shipment overseas of goods that are
already in short supply. it will
affect [U.S.] taxes because of the
heavy Government expenditure it
calls for.
Inflation is already the chief issue
of the [Presidential] election cam-
paign [the election is not till Novem-
ber 2, but the campaign is none
the less thoroughly on] and neither
party wants to get the blame for
further price rises that might take
place.
The Republicans want to cut in-
come taxes for all classes of tax-
payers. The Democrats do not want
to be tagged as the “high-tax” party,
particularly among the lower-bracket
wage-earners, who are the most
numerous.
N. Y. “Times” has reporteff
that so far as the April 1 date
for the start of the programme
is concerned, leading Republi-
cans are emphatic that it will
not be met. Senator Taft has
said “I don’t think there will be
any programme in actual opera-
tion before July 1.”
Villain or Martyr?
This month France is to be
given new information towards
a final assessment of war-time
Vichy Premier Pierre Laval —a
hitherto unpublished letter which
he wrote in prison while await-
ing trial and execution for
alleged collaboration with Hitler
and which amounts to the state-
ment of his defence which he
refused to make before the
Court that tried him.
In this “defence from the
grave” Laval states that he flatly
refused two Nazi demands for
a French declaration of war
against Britain and the U.S. and
rejected a military alliance offer
by Hitler after the Allied inva-
sion of North Africa.
Hitler’s demand, accompanied
by an offer of full military alli-
ance, was conveyed to him by
the German Minister to Vichy,
Krug von Nidda, the afternoon
of D-Day in North Africa,
November 8, 1942. It said:
Chancellor Hitler asks the French
Government if it is disposed to fight
at Germany’s side against the Anglo-
Saxons in the face of aggression just
committed by the Anglo-Saxons. A
breach of diplomatic relations could
not be considered sufficient and it
would be necessary to go as far as
a declaration of war against the
British and Americans. If the French
Government takes such a clear posi-
tion, Germany is ready to march
with it through thick and thin.
The Laval letter describes
how, the next day, he was sum-
moned to Munich, where he
turned down Hitler’s demand. It
was repeated on November 17,
1942, in the form of an ulti-
matum under the threat that the
Nazis would denounce the exist-
ing armistice and treat France
like a conquered land.
Again Laval refused. The re-
sult of the two refusals was the
German occupation of all of
France and the attempt! to seize
the French fleet at Toulon, pre-
vented only by the ships being
scuttled.
The letter carries the admis-
sion that in 1940 and 1941 Laval
believed the Germans, still allied
with Russia, would win the
war. The main defence is that
by remaining at the head of the
French Government he was able
to prevent Germans from com-
mitting greater excesses against
France and save tens of thou-
sands of Frenchmen from
Hitler’s firing squads and hun-
dreds of thousands from depor-
tation to forced-labor camps in
the Reich.
In the letter Laval also claims
to have hampered the Nazi per-
secution of Jews, Freemasons
and Communists, to have
brought about the release of
thousands 1 of French war
prisoners and to have acted
throughout in the hope of ob-
taining a peace settlement which
would leave France and her em-
pire intact.
“My ideal of honor,” wrote
Laval, “was to make every sacri-
fice in order to spare our country
the final indignity of being ruled
by a Gauleiter or band of ad-
venturers, to avoid a declaration
of war on the Anglo-Saxon
Powers and to obviate an alli-
ance with the German Reich. I
achieved my goal.”
Partitioned Germany.
Germany can now be looked
on as, for the time being, a par-
titioned country. It is most ob-
viously an enforced; arrange-
ment, reluctantly accepted by
U.S.-Britain, with France even
more reluctant. London “Times”
summed up the issue in a
sentence or two just before the
last Foreign Ministers Confer-
ence ;
It is not too much to say that
agreement for a unified Germany
would profoundly change the whole
complexion of international dispute.
A world plagued by fears of war
could welcome no event more gladly
than that. Conversely, the partition
of Germany sould only increase the
dangers of the state of moral and
physical mobilisation into which both
sides are now forced.
At the conference, as most ex-
pected, and as it turned out:
No agreement could be reached on
the reconstitution of a German Gov-
ernment, with which a treaty might
be concluded, for the sufficient reason
that the Russians evidently conceived
such a Government in terms of
totalitarian Communism, and the
Western Powers in terms of com-
promise between parties representa-
tive of the various shades of German
opinion.
The Russians persisted in their
claim —irreconcilable in Western eyes
with the economic realities of Ger-
many—to take large amounts from
current German production under the
name of reparations; the Western
Allies, who were heavily subsidising
the economy of their zones in order
to ward off starvation, considered
that the effect would be that repara-
tions to Russia were being paid by
them. On this issue the conference
broke down; underlying its failure
was the more fundamental incom-
patibility between the outlook and
ambitions of the two sides. The
conference dissolved without any
arrangement to meet again, and left
the world anxiously conscious that
forces were being arrayed on either
side of a gulf which, if means to
bridge it were not found in the
immediate future, might contain the
seeds of a third world war.
Such failure to agree, the
“Times” had commented, “must
lead disastrously to the parti-
tion of Germany,” since none
of the parties' could allow their
respective zones to continue “in
their present condition of uncer-
tainty and decay”: —
However inconsonant partition
might seem with the hope of a wider
political settlement in Europe, and
with the building of a peaceful and
democratic Germany, economic fac-
tors of immediate and undeniable
cogency, demand that a reorganisation
of the zonal framework be undertaken
without delay.
Which is what is now hap-
pening, with exact details still to
come out. So far the only defi-
nite steps taken have been those
announced last month by the
U.S.-British commanders -in -
chief, meeting in Frankfurt.
London “Times” found the new
measures there announced as
going “far towards political
fusion. They could, with a few
quick adjustments, become at
once the basis for it. But they
stop decisively short of the West


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms.. Rooms with private Bath-
111
111
111 ill
: mmm
9 TV.WiL
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates un-
excelled cuisine—Dining
Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together
with first-class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONFX KATES
Single Rooms—
From 7/- per night
Double Rooms—
From 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE,”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
fire. Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Break-
down, Aviation, etc.
Back To School...
Stocks of textbooks in all subjects
available for primary and secondary
schools, technical' colleges and
universities . . .
Send for our educational catalogues . . . FREE.
Special enquiries welcomed.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Booksellers and Publishers
89 GASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. MA6511.
German State, Parliament and
Executive”;
For the first time since the end of
the war Germans are being given a
serious measure of responsibility, both
legislative and executive, in the man-
agement of their own affairs. There
are the ultimate sanctions of the occu-
pying Powers, but in the nature of
things these will not, and cannot, be
applied except in cases of clear neces-
sity. The weight and mass of detailed
administration, extremely influential
in the long run on the general shape
and spirit of what is done, are, and
must be, in the hands of Germans.
“World Report” has given the
following summary of what is
expected:
A new State —although it won’t
be called that —is to be formed under
American leadership in Western Ger-
many.
The American, British and French
zones gradually will be merged into
one, dominated by the United States.
Its capital will be Frankfurt.
A separate currency will have to be
issued for Western Germany before
any substantial progress can be made
toward recovery. This will be a
touchy problem. Marks from the
Russian zone no longer would be
legal tender in Western Germany.
As far as currency is concerned,
Eastern and Western Germany would
be separate countries. That’s a step
nobody wants to take. Yet it looks
inevitable. There can be no deflation
in Western Germany so long as paper
money from the Russian zone pours
in.
Reparations programmes probably
will be shelved for the time being.
Dismantling of industrial plants will
be reviewed again and isn’t likely to
be pushed for the present.
Denazification may well be aban-
doned by summer.
The same publication quotes
its Berlin correspondent; **“The
goal is to make Western Ger-
many a paying, efficient bul-
wark against Comm,unism. It’s
the biggest, most dangerous
gamble yet in the ‘cold war,’ ”
The Soviet reaction “could be
troublesome”:
The Russians easily could force the
British, French and Americans out
of Berlin, for instance. For reasons
of prestige and strategy, the Western
Powers want to keep their foothold
there.
The Russians could wreck recovery
plans for Western Germany by driv-
ing hundreds of thousands of home-
less, Hungry Germans into the West-
ern zones from the Soviet zone.
Population already is drifting from
east to west in Germany. In recent
months, thousands of Germans have
moved out of the Soviet zone. A
little pressure could increase the flow
and thus create hopeless problems of
food and housing in Western Ger-
many.
Finally, the Russians might retaliate
by setting up in Berlin a Government
that would claim jurisdiction over all
Germany. There is reason to believe
the Russians are getting ready to do
this anyway.
Quoting “top American and
British officials” as his authori-
ties, a N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
correspondent has reported from
Frankfurt: “Since the U.S. is
to finance the recovery and in-
tegration of Western Germany,
as part of the Marshall Plan, an
American will be the obvious
choice as supreme Military
Governor, with British and
French deputies.”
From Berlin a Washington
“Post” correspondent has re-
ported that U.S.-Britain “have
been forced to prepare plans for
a Provisional Government of
Western Germany.” The
“Herald Tribune’s” Frankfurt
correspondent states that the
present “economic council,”
representing the proportional
strength of the various political
parties of the different States in
Western Germany, will become
a Parliament; this to be pre-
ceded by a general election.
Most reports agree that the
majority of German people at
present lean strongly to the
Western side; one lively proof
of this the already noted illegal
flight of Germans from the
Soviet zone; “a one-way move-
ment.” And London “Times”
has commented: “The German
public is once more a factor in
international affairs, a . new
arrival whose coming upon the
scene these last few months may
have been scarcely noticed by
the outside world, but is none
the less pregnant with conse-
quence.” The great bulk of that
German public is already in the
Western zones.
The Russians, for their part,
are now expected to make “a
highly nationalistic appeal” to
the Germans in their area. Up
to now they are reported to have
not been notably successful in
winning friends there. A Wash-
ington “Post” correspondent in
Berlin has touched on this
aspect:—
The Soviets here have not con-
cealed their angry disappointment,
caused by the failure of the Socialist
Unity party—the stooge party formed
by forced merger of Communists and
east zone Socialists —to win any Ger-
man mass following. Thus the
chances are that the Socialist Unity
party will be pushed aside. The new
Russian front in the east zone will
then be constructed from the war-
time Free Germany Movement, the
German soldiers, officers and generals
who were captured by the Soviets.
The “Post” correspondent
also reported that
“Field - Marshal Von
Paul us was brought to
Berlin to lay the
groundwork” for the
intended Soviet moves
on those lipes.
Whatever shape the
new plans for Germany
may take, both' the
U.S. and British occu-
pat i o n commanders
Itave repeatedly insisted
that they have no in-
tention of getting out
of Berlin. On this an
ominous comment ap-
peared in the official
newspaper in German
of the Russian Ad-
ministration. It bitterly
attacked the new
Frankfurt arrangement,
which, it said, “cannot
be without effect on
the position in Berlin.”
It accused U.S.-Britain
of entering on a path
violating the control
system hitherto operat-
ing ; said that this
“must lead inevitably
to a change in the status
of Berlin”; and declared that
thereby U.S. - Britain had
“assumed a heavy responsi-
bility.”
The American commandant,
Colonel Howley, was reported
in London “Times” to the effect
that the Americans would not
withdraw because the agree-
ment under which they, like the
British and French, occupy
sectors oi Berlin is the same as
that under which the Russians
occupy Thuringia and Saxony,
which were originally occupied
by American troops. Also, he
said the Americans intend to de-
fend as “an investment in de-
mocracy” the $100,000,000
worth of foodstuffs they had
brought to Berlin.
The British Military Gover-
nor, General Robertson, was
also quoted in the “Times” as
speaking of Berlin as “a most
important bridge spanning the
differences which unfortunately
still exist among the Allies, a
bridge between East and West
Germany, if not something more
than that.” The British, he said,
would be the last to wish to
weaken that bridge in any way:
“Ndr do I believe..,. .that any
of the Allies would be so un-
wise as to want to take any
action which would imperil it.”
And, referring to what the
“Times” correspondent spoke
of as “the apprehension of Ber-
liners, which is widespread”
(that U.S.-Britain would now
pull out and leave them in
Soviet hands), American Mili-
tary Governor General Clay
said, “quietly but decisively,”
“There are no plans for evacua-
tion.”
Publishing Innovations.
For a couple of months
Chicago “Tribune” has' pre-
sented a strange appearance,
its columns looking as if
turned out by a typewriter; the
“Tribune’s” answer to a printers’
strike launched on November
24. The following details of the
methods employed in getting the
paper, and others, out were
given in a “Tribune” article on
January 7: —
Strikes of newspaper printers in
Chicago and other American cities
are providing an unprecedented stimu-
lation to innovations in publishing.
Some show promise of winning a
permanent place in the production of
daily papers. Others in the final
stages of development are expected
"WERE OFF TO SEE THE WIZARD, THE WONDERFUL
WIZARD OF U.S."
(Merely “Bolshie scarecrow,” according to this London “News Chronicle” view.
Facts are that the Western European countries at first put their urgent recovery
needs under the Marshall Plan at some $30,000,000,000 and are very anxious to
get the revised $17,000,000,000 or so if Congress agrees, with Great Britain estimated
to need $5,348,000,000, almost twice as much as any of the other participating
countries .)
to receive warm welcomes in other
sectors of a market eager to examine
new ideas and techniques.
At the “Tribune,” Vari-Typer
machines have replaced linotypes.
They are operated by typists who
learn to use them after a few days
of instruction. Electromatic type-
writers also are being used, and re-
finements of both machines are being
xnade to adapt them better to pub-
lication of a metropolitan newspaper.
In the meantime an entirely - new
device has been invented and is ex-
pected to be generally available early
this year. This is the Justowriter,
which combines a typewriter and an
automatic printer. The operator
writes copy on a typewriter which
punches a "tape in addition to printing
individual letters. This tape is then
fed into the printer, which automati-
cally justifies the lines i.e., makes
them come out even on the right-hand
margin—and operates at about three
times the speed of the typist. Thus
the printing machine will handle the
output of three typists—an advantage
over, the Vari-Typer, which operates
somewhat more slowly than a type-
writer.
Use of any of these three devices
depends on the photo-engraving pro-
cess for conversion of type set on
paper to type set in metal for the
presses. Here again, a new product
is available to speed this process.
Metallurgists have developed a mag-
nesium engraver’s metal called Zomag,
which is expected to reduce engraving
time by as much as one-fifth. The
magnesium reacts very rapidly with
the nitric acid used by engravers,
which means that the lag between the
time news is written and when it is
printed and distributed will be re-
duced while the photo-engraving pro-
cess is used.
Other advantages of magnesium are
its light weight, its relatively plentiful
supply as compared with zinc and
copper, and its fast reaction with
more dilute solutions of acid than
are generally used in etching other
metals. This saves acid, of which
supplies are limited, and makes for
pleasanter conditions in engraving
rooms.
Outside of Chicago some news-
paper publishers have resorted to use
of automatic devices for operating
linotype machines. Foremost among
these is the Teletypesetter, used to
publish papers in Jamestown and
Rockville Centre, N.Y., and Abilene,
Texas.
This device consists of a paper
tape perforator operated by a key-
board much the same as that of a
typewriter, and an attachment for a
linotype or intertype, the two com-
monly-used composing machines. The
perforated tape is fed through the
attachment and the keys of the com-
posing machine are actuated some-
what as the keys of a player-piano
are moved when the roll unwinds.
Skilled typists can operate the per-
forator after a short period of in-
struction. The tape feeding through
the composing machine operates it
at speeds up to twice those of the
average manual oorators. Produc-
tion of these machines was curtailed
during the war, but the speed and
economy they afford has stimulated
renewed production on a larger scale.
The Teletypesetter also may be used
on wire circuits permitting simul-
taneous automatic operation of com-
posing machines in several different
cities. In Illinois, for example, per-
forating machines in the plant of
the Decatur “Herald and Review”
have been connected by wire to re-
ceivers in the plant of the Urbana
“Courier.” Tapes are run through
composing machines in both plants.
A larger circuit exists in Arkansas,
where C. E. Palmer, principal owner
of newspapers in six cities, adopted
the device five years ago. News
matter for all the papers is sent
from perforating machines in Hot
Springs. Palmer said the device has
been a complete success, giving far
greater production from linotype
machines than manual operation.
In Texas a circuit connects news-
papers in San Angelo and Abilene
and another links Paris (Tex.), Mar-
shall and Denison. “Time” magazine
uses the Teletypesetter to set type
for its weekly publication simul-
taneously in Philadelphia, Chicago
and Los Angeles. Sending point,
where the original tape is punched,
is New York.
Another device providing automatic
operation of linotypes and intertypes
is the Semagraf. It scans copy with
a photo-electric cell and the pulsating
current from the cell actuates the
composing machine. Original copy
is written on a special typewriter
which prints a code of dots under
each letter as it is written. The code
is keyed to characters of the com-
posing machine.
This machine also can be used on
wire circuits, and automatic composi-
tion has been demonstrated with it
over distances of more than 100
miles. The composing machines can
be operated at capacity speed by the
photo-electric cell, raising production
as much as one-third to two times
manual production.
The major wire news services have
shown interest in these machines,
which might make it possible for
newspapers to receive wire copy in
such form as to permit automatic
setting of the news in type as it is
received.
Entirely different in principle are
the type-composing machines that
employ light rather than molten metal
to form letters and characters. One
of these, the Fototypesetter, has been
in use in the Government printing
office since last November and soon
will be offered in the open market.
Similar to the intertype in appear-
ance, it has a camera that replaces
the hot metal moulding-box of the
older machine. One of the strongest
features of the machine is its flexi-
bility. Adjustments to the camera
permit enlargements of type from
six to 36 points, thus providing in
one machine virtually all the type
needed in a newspaper from headlines
to market quotations.
Even more revolutionary is the
Phototextype, which is expected to
be exhibited for the first time next
spring. Unlike the Fototypesetter, it
abandons virtually all the principles
of the traditional composing
machines. The machine will get its
first test in Mexico, where it will be
used exclusively to compose news-
paper headlines, news text,, advertise-
ments, pictures and color illustrations.
It employs light and photographic
principles to transfer copy to news-
print.
Dragnet Digest.
■ The Mac Arthur Touch. The
General has lost nothing of his touch
in lordly prose style. Being freely
mentioned as a prospective Presiden-
tial candidate, he sent this message
of greeting to the Wisconsin cen-
tennial: “In the labyrinth of destiny’s
pattern, there can be no greater satis-
faction than such as comes from the
confidence reflected in the selection
by one’s neighbors for public service
—no more challenging responsibility
than lies in the fulfilment of their
trust.” Which, as N. Y. “World-
Telegram” commented, mightn’t say
yes, but it certainly doesn’t say no.
«j* H 5
Duke of Windsor Memoirs. —“Life”
magazine, according to N. Y. “Post,”
is paying the Duke of Windsor for
three articles more per word than
any other writer in magazine history
has collected. The figure isn’t stated,
but it’s more than Churchill is
getting, which is said to be a dollar
a word. But then Churchill is to
reel off a million words. Both of
them may be profiting a dollar or
two by having read O. Henry, who,
being paid by the word, changed
“nobody” to “no one.” *
* * * *
Truman’s Political Shrewdness. —
Though earlier doubts were held on
various other grounds about Mr.
Truman as President, his worst enemy
never questioned his acuteness as a
politician, of which the Marshall Plan
dealings furnish a striking example.
Mr. Truman put the Plan to the
Republican - dominated Congress,
which now has to vote on it. In
the very unlikely event of Congress
turning it down, disruption in Europe
affecting America would be certain,
and the Republicans would feel the
kick hard at the Presidential election
in November. Hence Congress is sure
to pass it in some form. But this
means that if, by next November,
the Plan is working well, the kudos
will be Truman’s. Yet if it is work-
ing badly the Republican side will
not escape the blame attaching to
having passed it,
* * *
Airplane-auto. —A small aluminium-
colored flying “automobile,” N. Y.
“Times” has reported, landed on the
New York La Guardia airfield and,
shedding wings and propeller, drove
off as a car 34 minutes later. It
had come from Danbury, Connecti-
cut ; cruises at 105 mi'es an hour;
has a “recommended” road speed of
45 miles an hour; and, said its driver-
pilot - owner - inventor - manufacturer,
“Anyone who can drive a truck can
drive this.”


A FAMOUS NEWSPAPER REPORTS
Tam&A NUMBER 13 DJ).T. IN ACTION!
mOEL
)• NOE •&&&*»**
nSS»' 2!9 -
Tc Z S*BWt. 13f/j Of/ota.
KarraVi'i-
T *!*Zr£ti r ‘y- Lld -
T ay 0 j Avenue,
Snthe i?lh tTO-N-
-PADDINGl NG to advis'
Dear Str, o ra bhan* has fr\ D-T- ,
Yo» r , ~Ik of 3C , the linse 0^
yon * bolU toniato gr llued at the rate
In s<? /0 toas apt by a ir and
crops, the D-D-]; per acre J L
of aW°* l Tu lr acre tvith g° ctiv e
by air rvas about
Tibe dusttng J s ting, as J
and the ground
SsaSSsK*
THIS PHOTO. REPRINTED FROM TAMWORTH “NORTHERN LEADER,” 27/10/’47, WHICH SAYS:
“This Tiger Moth ... is seen travelling at 70 miles an hour only one to three feet above Mr. Noel
Barrett’s linseed crop as Taylor’s NUMBER 13 D.D.T. dust is sprayed. Aerial dusting of linseed crops
in the Pallamallawa and Narrabri districts is claimed to have achieved great success in destroying the
caterpillars, which soon wipe out linseed crops if not controlled.”
NUMBER 13
2% & 5% D.D.T.
AGRICULTURAL
DUSTING POWDER
PARA PARA
ISOMER
* Reprinted from Page 2 of
the Tamworth “Northern Daily
Leader,” 27/10/’47.
Except for these few paragraphs, this advertisement consists of actual photographs, a signed letter from Mr. J. Noel Barrett,
of “Yera,” Edgeroi, and a full, unabridged reprint from the news column of a famous New South Wales country newspaper,
Tamworth’s “Northern Daily Leader.” These tell the story of Taylor’s NUMBER 13 D.D.T. (S% P.P.1.) Agricultural
Dusting Powder and its successful fight in saving the Linseed crop at Narrabri. These are not vague claims. These
are real facts. If the time should come when you are faced by invasion by a destructive insect on your own crops, fruit trees
or vegetables, the makers of Taylor’s NUMBER 13 are at your call with specialised help and information.
To protect fruit trees, vegetables or
crops against insect pests, write or
’pbone for information to The Tech-
nical Agricultural Division, Taylor’s
Paints Pty., Ltd., Sutherland Avenue,
Paddington, Sydney, FB 1221, who
manufacture and guarantee all the
famous Taylor’s NUMBER 13 D.D.T.
products, including the following:
Taylor’s NUMBER 13
2% and 5% D.D.T.
Agricultural Dusting Powder
Taylor’s NUMBER 13
NEW TYPE WATER-WETTABLE
D.D.T. FOR HORTICULTURE
Taylor’s NUMBER 13
D.D.T. Emulsion Concentrate for
Dipping and Jetting.
LINSEED CROP PEST: AERIAL
DUSTING OPERATION
On Mr. S. B. Sneesby’s property on the
Winton Road, near Tamworth, early on Satur-
day morning, keen interest was taken in a
demonstration of aerial dusting with Taylor’s
No. 13 D.D.T. of a 10-acre crop of linseed to
control the caterpillar pest, which can quickly
destroy linseed.
This was the third aerial dusting operation
undertaken for landholders by East-West Air-
lines in co-operation with the Department of
Agriculture, manufacturers of the D.D.T. dust
and Meggitt Ltd.
While the initial evidence of the success
achieved by aerial dusting can be obseryed in
the crops within 24 hours, complete results
cannot be assessed accurately in less than two
days.
Experts have reported that good results were
obtained on the properties of Mr. Noel Barrett
(Narrabri) and Messrs. Rhode Bros. (Palla-
mallawa) in recent weeks.
East-West Airlines revealed yesterday that
plans had been completed for further aerial
dusting on the following properties: Tamworth
district, .Mr. V. E. Tongue’s; Moree, Mr. Mc-
Leod’s ; Gravesend, Mr. Berwick’s; Winton,
Mr. Hamilton’s, together with several properties
in Inverell district.
The Tiger Moth used in the work is specially
fitted with venturi and flexible hopper equip-
ment. It travels at between 70 m.p.h. and 75
m.p.h. at between Ift. and 3ft. above the level
of the crop. In one run the aircraft sprays a
strip 30ft. in width.
‘ USE OF MORE PLANES.
East-West Airlines has only one aircraft fitted
for the work at present, but proposes to have
at least two available for next year to do work
within a radius of 400 miles of Tamworth. If
the demand necessitates more planes being
acquired, and there is every indication that this
will, be so, more aircraft will be fitted.
This is the first year that any quantity of
linseed has been given a trial in the north-west.
Results have been from fair to good, with
several failures, attributed mainly to inexperi-
ence. It is estimated, however, that in the
vicinity of 50,000 acres may be sown to linseed
in this region next year.
An expert authority on linseed who has been
watching the progress of the aerial dusting
scheme said it Ixad definitely proved economical
and efficient. While it was slightly more ex-
pensive to dust from the air than on the
ground, the new system would involve the
grower in approximately the same expense as
if he dusted on the ground, as it had proved
more efficient, could be done quickly, and
damage which invariably resulted from ground
dusting did not occur.
East-West Airlines does not intend to con-
centrate on aerial dusting of linseed alone. It
is vitally interested in the possibilities of dusting
of lucerne and other crops to which aircraft
could be applied.
OTHER OPERATIONS.
Other operations in which the company is
keenly interested are the spreading of bait for
grasshoppers from the air and the dropping of
a mixture to counter rust infection in wheat.
The Department of Agriculture and C.S.I.R.
are giving attention to these suggestions now,
and are reported to be testing a mixture which
they hope will assist in controlling the rust
menace in wheat.
It is understood that the Department of
Agriculture and C.S.I.R. have expressed satis-
faction at results already achieved in the north-
west by aerial dusting of crops. Those asso-
ciated with the tests are urging the two authori-
ties to recommend the modern method of dusting
to growers, and at the same time make available
reliable advice on the right time for dusting, etc.
Aerial dusting is indeed a speedy operation.
In small crops it takes an aircraft approxi-
mately two minutes to dust an acre, but in a
larger area, where there are longer single strips,
the aircraft will do an acre a minute.
Mr. R. E. Brabham, representative of the
D.D.T. dust used in the linseed crop dusting,
said last night that the caterpillar which attacked
the linseed could destroy a crop in three ox-
four weeks. The cost of aerial dusting was
slightly higher than for ground dusting, but
it was estimated that from 5 per cent, to 6
per cent, of the crop was damaged in dusting
from the ground where, with aerial dusting, no
damage was done. The 100-acre crop at Mr.
Barrett’s property in Narrabri district was dusted
from the air in about three hours, whereas it
would have taken three men about two days
to have done the job on the ground. These
facts indicated the advantages of the aerial
dusting scheme.
On Saturday morning the pilot of the aircraft
was Mr. B. McKenzie (Tamworth). Among
those who attended the demonstration were
Messrs. Haslett and Daniels (Meggitts Ltd.),
Brabham (manufacturers of the dust), Wright,
entomologist, and J. W. Boyle, agronomist
(Agriculture Department).


The Bulletin
Vol. 69—No. 3547
Wednesday, February 4, 1948
THE FIREBRAND.
"The Communist answer to State action in Victoria and Queensland designed to deal with illegal strikes is a callous threat that a general strike will be called unless the
law is revoked.”
“If you touch me for starting this fire I’ll set the whole place alight.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P, H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
WHAT'S WHAT IN "LABOR"?
If, as has been bruited around for the
past three months in industrial -circles,
the recent strikes in N. S. Wales and
Victoria have been pipe-openers for
some larger plans of the Communist
party this month, the results are not
very encouraging to the organisers.
The Victorian tramways strike, de-
signed to subdue the newly-fledged Holl-
way Government, proved two important
things. ’ One was that a Government
which is prepared to make a necessary
law and enforce it is bound to have the
people’s full support if the law upholds
the general public interest. The other is
that a lot of “moderate” Trades Hall
“Labor” men who usually follow the
Communist lead, or leave the path clear
for Communists whenever there is in-
dustrial disturbance, do so mainly be-
cause they feel the need to be on the
winning side. In Victoria they rushed
to be behind Hollway the moment they
saw that law and order were bound to
win.
In Adelaide the Railway Commis-
sioner, by cancelling all week-end trains
until the A.R.U. came to heel and faced
the Conciliation Commissioner in a
legal way, defeated an edict that no rail-
way overtime would be worked above
80 hours per fortnight—terms refused
in the Conciliation Court. As in the
N. S. Wales dispute, it was a Communist
leader who did the climbing-down and
who agreed to submit to the law.
New South Wales has seen another ex-
ample of the same processes at work
during the past few days. The colliery
branches of the Federated Engine-
drivers’ and Firemen’s Association on
the northern N. S. Wales fields struck
over trivial differences concerned with
week-end pay for specialists and their
new award in general. It was a brutal
hold-up,* carried out with arrogance and
a disregard*" for the convenience and
comfort of the community and for the
lives of the sick and aged. Mr. Gal-
lagher, the Commonwealth Coal Con-
troller, took a firmer stand than is usual
on such occasions with a Federal
authority. Public opinion reacted as it
had in Victoria and made it clear to the
strikers that it did not regard tolerantly
the closing-down of factories, the restric-
tion of railway travel, the contraction in
pay-envelope contents and the ration-
ing of gas and power during an unsea-
sonable period of cold, wet weather.
Within a few days, though not
before over 200,000 tons of precious
coal had been left unmined, the
combined executive of the colliery
unions had met and anxiously re-
quested the men to return to work. The
world saw the unusual spectacle of Com-
rade Williams, Communist president of
the Federal Colliery Employees, urging
the men to go back to their jobs, since
“by so doing they will make it possible
for the F.E.D.F.A. and the Combined
Miners’ Union Council to continue nego-
tiations for a satisfactory settlement of
the dispute.” Mr. Sutherland, the State
president of the F.E.D.F.A., told an
aggregate meeting at South Maitland
that the combined union executive was
“now convinced that the time is oppor-
tune for an approach to conciliation and
arbitration.... It is not our task to re-
duce the Australian community to the
level of serfs by withholding an essential
commodity.” It is not on record that
any* of his hearers fainted under the im-
pact of this sentiment,' but many
a housewife on reading it must have
smiled grimly, even though gas-rationing
was still operative and due to continue
for a time, and there was still dislocation
in industry and transport.
It is obvious that Communist leader-
ship and all it stands for in the coal and
land-transport unions is now in question.
It has been defied and forced to cloak its
views or temporise. In Queensland as
well as Victoria, S.A. and New South
Wales its technique has been chal-
lenged, Mr. Hanlon, the returned-
soldier Premier, having indicated to
the supine Federal “Government”
that he will have nothing to do
with a joint coal board which would
allow the extremists of the south to in-
terfere in Queensland coal production, on
which depends the success of his schemes
for peopling the richly-mineralised north.
Moreover, Mr. Fallon, State secretary of
of the A.W.U., has boldly followed Mr,
Hanlon with a declaration which puts
the industrial troubles of the past few
months in accurate perspective. He said
that the work-stoppages and consequent
hardships inflicted on Australians were
part of a deliberate policy of sabotage
against English-speaking countries:
Stoppages of work which have occurred
in many heavy and key industries are not
the result of disputes between employers
and employees. I know something of the
technique of the Communist party in Aus-
tralia and something of the tactics of the
Communist high command in its attitude
..'toward English-speaking people.
Anybody familiar with the literature of
the Australian Communist party can con-
firm this with a hundred instances
—such as Comrade Ernie Thornton’s
ringing declaration late in World War II
that “he who is with the Soviet Union is
an Australian patriot; he who is against
the Soviet Union is an Australian traitor.”
The tactics and strategy of the Com-
munist-managed unions follow the in-
structions set out in the Moscow-written
text-books specifically designed to take
the power of government out of the hands
of the elected representatives of the people
and to lodge it in the hands of agents of
the Kremlin.
The matter has come to an open
combat and, despite the victories for
moderation in three States, the real
battle has still to close. The Com-
munist leaders are in the position
that they must either break the anti-strike
legislation which has been passed by the
'Victorian and Queensland State Govern-
ments or have their influence and their
weapons destroyed.
The most disturbing factor in the situa-
tion is not that they have declared open
war. It is a mere routine proceeding that
'the Seamen’s Union, the admirers oifl
which claim for it ‘TOO per cent. Com-
munist control,” should tie-up shipping
on a flimsy pretext that a few bargees in
Brisbane are dissatisfied with their wages.
It is quite normal that they should use
this pretext to try to starve Mr. Hanlon’s
Queensland Government into nullifying
its anti-strike legislation.
What is disturbing is that in this action
the Communist party should find an
imitator in a powerful Labor body
whose heads in New South Wales claim
not to be Communists, but to be the
very bulwark of moderatism. Mr. J. A.
Ferguson, M.L.C., State secretary of the
A.R.U. in New South Wales, has said
that he believes “economic sanctions
should be enforced against the Victorian
Government, if it attempted to enforce its
Emergency Services Act,” by the stoppage
of transport of inter-State goods.
The author of this impudent and law-
less threat is not a Communist, though
his union seems to be riddled with Com-
munists. He is president of the
N. S. Wales branch of the A.L.P., from
which the Prime Minister and the Deputy
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth
draw their party endorsements and in-
structions. He is president of the body
which is officially represented in Caucus
by the Speaker, Mr. Rosevear. He was
chairman of the official Labor rally on
bank-nationalisation in the Domain a
few months ago, at which Messrs. Rose-
vear and Calwell represented the Govern-
ment as the principal speakers. And his
attitude of mind apparently reflects the
fact that Communist influence has so
penetrated the central organ of New
South Wales political Labor that at times
it is difficult to tell where Labor begins
and Communism ends.
Other cases show what has happened.
One which reveals the close liaison that
exists is in a pamphlet, apparently
written in the last year of the
war and now on general sale in Com-
munist bookshops. It contains eight
lectures by E. W. Campbell, head of the
Marx School, the Communist party’s
training college, “issued by the Educa-
tional Committee of the New South
Wales Labor Council” and decorated
with a foreword by “R. A. King, M.L.C.,
secretary. Labor Council of N. S.
Wales.” This document is described by
Mr. King as one of a series of text-books
“designed particularly for study circles
in the workshops,” to spread “a know-
ledge of the history of our movement,”
which “gives inspiration to us,” and
“assists [us] to see more clearly our
present-day problems and how to solve
them.”
The essential fact about the matter is
that Mr. King, who endorses this Com-
munist pamphlet, beside being secretary
of the N. S. Wales Labor Council, for
long has been a trustee of the N. S. Wales
Central Branch of the A.L.P. —one of
the three men who control or protect the
funds upon which Messrs. Chifley, Evatt,
Rosevear, Ward, McGirr and other
Federal and State Ministers depend for
their political backing.
While such a state of affairs exists it
is not strange that there seems to be an
accord between ‘the policy of “moderate”
unions and Communists, and that the
feeble crowd at Canberra allow them-
selves to be pushed about by every violent
Moscow disciple who cares to try his
hand at the making of chaos.
It is time that public opinion and the
press took a hand to examine the internal
position of Labor organisations
thoroughly, and determine who and what
are behind such threats as that issued by
Mr. Ferguson against the Hollway
Ministry and the State of Victoria.
Moderate Premiers like Mr. Hanlon and
unions such as the A.W.U. would do a
very specific service to industrial peace
and to the safety of the country by ex-
posing the situation as it really exists, so
that the behavior of rank-and-file
unionists may be guided by the plain
truth of the position.
New States' Chance.
Twenty-five years ago a New States
Convention at Armidale (N.S.W.) or-
ganised an agitation whose leaders were
resolved to test whether new States in
Australia could be established by- the
constitutional means provided, or only
by what in America was known as
“irregular admission.” The movement
was inspired by resentment of the cen-
tralisation of governing powers in distant
and indifferent authority dug-in in
Sydney and Brisbane, and to high taxa-
tion imposed without adequate repre-
sentation or consideration.
It was the New England leadership in
the newly-born Country party which com-
pelled both N.S.W. and Federal Govern-
ments—in the latter the C.P. shared
office for most of the ’twenties —
to appoint several royal commissions to
study the question and the proposed
alterations of the Federal Constitution.
At one time' the New England agitation
seemed to be within measurable distance
of succeeding, supported as it was by a
similar movement in the Riverina, and by
the perennial demands for separate Gov-
ernments in northern and central Queens-
land. When world-wide economic depres-
sion looked like clouding these prospects,
the Lang Government’s defiance from
Sydney of the Loan Council and the
Federal Government’s emergency
measures produced a constitutional crisis
which gave the New Staters an oppor-
tunity.
In early 1932, from northern N.S.W.
and the Riverina, they began planning
repudiation of government from Sydney,
fired by examples of “separation by
irregular means” created by several States
in U.S.A., and particularly that which
produced West Virginia. Only the col-
lapse of the Lang regime averted such
action, and a reversion to constitutional
process derived new hope from the pledge
of the Stevens-Bruxner Government in
Sydney (succeeding Lang) to appoint a
Boundaries Commission and to take refer
enda on the issue. Public inertia,
especially that of city interests, the
struggle to rehabilitate N.S.W. State
finances from tlje “Labor” mess, and
finally the approach of a new world war
again exhausted the effort. The Boun-
daries Commission pursued its work,
made its report, and died —the report
with it.
Although the position established by
the reformers seemed to be washed away,
as with a spring-tide, by World War 11,
that convulsion has in fact provided the
occasion for a revival of the movement.
Again Armidale has registered it. The
debates there at the annual summer
school of the Australian Institute of
Political Science were either planned for
the venue, or took their theme naturally
from the local atmosphere. They exposed
primarily three modern abuses which the
New State movement is most qualified to
challenge with effect, and cannot pass
over without itself giving up the ghost.
They are:
The growth of centralised government
and administration at Canberra, grossly
augmented with the appropriation of war-
emergency powers by the Chifley Govern-
ment, which that Government now refuses
to relinquish with the return of peace, be-
cause they are part and parcel of its pro-
gramme of socialisation of all industry and
services.
The widespread extension of Government
boards and commissions which are usurp-
ing even the limited powers of local-gov-
erning bodies —as for instance the intrusion
of the Housing Commission into the domain
of municipal councils.
The preparation of the Socialists in power
at Canberra to enlarge the size of the
Federal Parliament, without any provision
for the representation of new States, by a
redistribution of electoral boundaries which
can only increase the predominance in
Parliament of the city vote and the city
unions.
To the New Staters’ grievance that
authority in the States has been cen-
tralised in the capital cities, and that the
drift of population into those cities has
been encouraged by long neglect of
rural development, is now added the de-
liberate reaching-out by the Federal Gov-
ernment for authority belonging properly
to the original States of the Federation
—an attempt at acquisition without con-
stitutional right or mandate from the elec-
tors. This is the old centralisation griev-
ance swollen beyond all precedent.
The Bank Grab Act, now being tested
in the High Court, is but the harbinger of
the Chifley programme. It will socialise
all rural industries by indirect means, and
the plans for socialising insurance com-
panies after the trading banks—plans
lately displayed but hurriedly put back
into cold-storage when the farmers’ resent-
ment of the Bank Act manifested itself —
and the seeking at the coming referendum
of permanent control at Canberra over all
prices, rents and charges, would complete
the destruction of local government.
Lt.-Col. Bruxner spiritedly addressed
the Armidale Convention of 1923, and
he jumped into thb debate again at
Armidale the other day, opposing a
Sydney argument which “did not regard a
decline in rural population as necessarily
a bad'thing” with a scorching blast against
economic “planners’ ” contempt for the
welfare of Australia’s primary industries
and her exporting resources. “That would
mean the country is done for,” he said.
“The Commonwealth Government has
had the Northern Territory for 40 years,
and there are not enough amenities there
to attract evert the blackfellows back to
it. That is what centralisation in Can-
berra means.”
It was Mr. Justice Nicholas, guiding
counsel of two New State royal commis-
sions in the past and chairman of a third,
who brought up an important new argu-
ment for a revival of the New State agita-
tion.
Decentralisation is essential if Australia
is to be saved from disaster, and the estab-
lishment of new States is the only safe form
of decentralisation. As a result of uniform
taxation collected solely by the Common-
wealth, and control of public works im-
posed by the Loan Council, a State Parlia-
ment now has less financial freedom than
a shire council. Power is divorced from
responsibility to an extent unknown in any
other system of government.
And on top of this comes “Labor’s” pro-
posed redistribution of the electorates for
an enlarged Federal Parliament which
will enhance the overwhelming city vote,
completely swamp the country constitu-
encies, and —on the scheme proposed —
give Tasmania (say) eight Senators and
New England or Riverina or Queensland
north of Rockhampton—all industrial
and producing areas vital to Australia’s
export trade and Her own daily susten-
ance —no Senators at all.
Whether to defeat the Socialists’
schemes for centralising of all controls
at Canberra —an intrigue with which the
already-swollen seaboard cities would, as
a last resort, make their own composition
—or to press the demand for fair and
adequate representation of the country
districts in both local and national spheres
of government, the creation of new
States in the east of the continent is of
growing necessity. By no other means
can representation of those areas be
guaranteed at Canberra, or the drift to
the metropolitan centres be countered.
The Chifley Government’s plans for
increasing city representation the
obvious result of redistribution for a
larger Parliament as “Labor” proposes —
will be a declaration of war by that party
against any decentralisation whatever.
Some early northern New Staters were
disposed to Exploit a “Labor” disposition
30 years ago to recast the Australian Con-
stitution along the lines of enlarged
central powers with a decentralisa-
tion of local government among some 30
provinces, cut up from the present States.
They will recognise now the folly of any
such dealings with a party which is
dominated by the militant city unions.
“Labor’s” redistribution will be carried
out before any effectual protest can pos-
sibly be organised in New England and
the Riyerina. It may arouse the one
live New State nigger which the Federal
compact left in the woodpile —the pro-
vision in Section 7 which permits the
Queensland Parliament to divide that
State into three sections for the purpose
of Senate representation. Over and above
the reactions from that development, the
emergence of a larger Federal Parlia-
ment elected from still more pre-
ponderant city voting centres, and
pledged (as by complexion it would be)
to work for increased centralisation of
authority at Canberra, would present the
disfranchised countryside with conditions
which should stir even the coolest-
blooded supporters of the New State
movement.
Constitutional agitations are not dead in
either Westralia or South Australia, as
was witnessed recently by reactions to
the Bank Grab Act. All six State Govern-
ments in Australia are bucking against the
Commonwealth Government’s claim to
collect all income taxation and therefrom
to allot rationed payments to the States,
even though some might acknowledge
merit in the system if it were fairly ad-
ministered.
The campaign for destroying tfle Fed-
eration by means of aggrandising the
central Government can no longer be
disguised. Whatever the reaction of the
electors as a whole on the general issue
against “Labor,” this year of constitu-
tional crisis should give the New State
movement the momentum it needs.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Gandhi.
The murder of Mohandas Gandhi
thrilled with horror even a world inured
to wholesale bloodshed and atrocity by
years of war. Whatever that old, half-
clothed man stood for it was always
opposition to bloodshed. Even his
enemies could hate him only for his
potent passivity, but those who hated him
grew fewer as he aged, and in the end
even Moslems, enemies of his religion,
regarded him with a sort of reverence.
He was a not-uncommon phenomenon
in Oriental history—the saint vowed to
poverty, and preaching the omnipotence
of inaction when applied to great issues.
The abnormal feature about him was
that an English education and legal and
political training enabled him to
modernise his sainthood and to give it
influence not only upon the ignorant
masses of India, but upon the political
thought of the Western world. He was,
apart from anything else, one of the
greatest showmen in history.
Without his influence in the back-
ground the transfer of Indian rule out
of British hands would have been a much
more violent affair. There can be no
question of what he could have achieved
at the height of his power had he called
on a fanatical and ignorant population to
fight.
As it was, he was the undoubted central
figure in the campaign to throw off
British rule, which he carried on vigor-
ously with frequent periods of detention
and fasting even during the period of the
Japanese war. The fact cannot be balked
that his policy of civil disobedience dur-
ing his various Congress dictatorships
during the past 25 years led to much
violence and the loss of many lives. His
teaching and plans started fanatical move-
ments which he was unable to control.
Nathuram Vinyak Godse, editor of a
Poona paper, who shot the Mahatma
three times oh Friday last as he walked
at sundown to prayer in New Delhi, was
a member of Mahasabha (“Great Con-
gress”), one of the bodies which the dead
man has been frequently attacked for
tolerating. This concern’s objective,
fanatically pursued, was the wiping-out
of Indian Moslem influence and the estab-
lishment of all-Hindu rule over the penin-
sula.
The murder’s effects are not yet
fully apparent. Those behind it will do
their best to fan the flames of racial and
religious hate which, even'while Gandhi
was being taken to his bier on the Jumna
bank behind a scarlet-and-gold Viceroy’s
escort, found outlet in new massacres and
arson. Not only will Moslem and Hindu
be more widely divided, but also Hindu
and Hindu.
The Garden Case.
When the case in which J. S. (“Jock”)
Garden is charged with forgery and fal-
sification in connection with New Guinea
timber leases was resumed in Sydney last
week External Territories Minister
E. J. Ward was again in the box:
Cross-examined by Mr. Isaacs (for Garden), he
said he recommended the appointment of Wil-
liam Morris Urquhart as managing-director of
Sydney Pincombe Pty., Ltd., to Miss Stella Pin-
combe at his home towards the end pf 1945
after he had himself turned down an offer of
the position. Ward denied that Urquhart had
been his dummy in throughout. He
admitted that they had “crossed in London.”
There was no London appointment. He did
not go to Sweden with Urquhart or help pay
his expenses. During discussion of the Minister’s
appointment-book Mr. Wajd, addressing the
magistrate, said; “I don’t want him [Mr. Isaacs]
to have a look at the book for fear he might
attempt something.” An apology was demanded.
Regarding an interview with Forshaw, of
Hancock and Gore, the following passage
occurred:
Isaacs: After Forshaw had gone, you said
to Garden “Too many people know about this.
I have got to look after myself now”?
Ward: That’s a lie.
Isaacs: Didn’t Garden say to you “You’re
not going to dump me, are you?”—That’s a lie.
And you said,, didn’t you, “If it comes out
what I got out of it, I’m a goner”?—That’s
a lie.
Urquhart, in reply to Mr. Shand (for the
Commonwealth), said he commenced duties with
Pincombes in January, 1946, at a salary of
£lOOO a year. He was given 500 10s. shares
to qualify him as a director in December, 1946.
He went abroad on business in May, 1947.
He received no favors from Mr. Ward either
in regard to importing typewriters or in con-
nection with his passage. He was not a
dummy for Ward, and some person had not
taken £5OOO to him from Ward. He had an
interest in Precise when it won the Villiers.
A wager of £5OO to £l5 was taken about
Precise in two bets of £250 to £7 10s. Mrs.
Ward’s interest was £lOO to £3.
Cross-examined by Mr. Isaacs, Urquhart said
he had been a Railways Dept, dark at the
Government Tourist Bureau, and became a
National Service officer about 1942 or 1943.
He ended his long-service leave with the Public
Service about July, 1946. He commenced with
lincombes in January, 1946, in an advisory
capacity. Being on leave from a Commonwealth
department, he was not permitted to receive
pa y- .When he became a director his salary
son 7 irector ’ s fees totalled £l9BO a year. The
500 10s. shares he had acquired were a gift
tf om the Pincombe sisters; they had given him
the shares instead of a bonus of £250. On July
30, 1947, he had been credited with a bonus
of £5OO and on December 31 with another of
£4OO.
Mr. Isaacs: Did any of the monthly moneys
you received from the company go into a bank
account? —They may have.
In three bank accounts opened between April
and August, 1945, totalling a little over £lOOO,
Urquhart said the money was his own. Money
deposited at a Bondi Beach branch of the
Savings Bank in his wife’s name in 1945 repre-
sented savings and winnings. He had won £BOO
or £9OO on Precise at Rosehjll. He had won
on Precise at Randwick once. His winnings on
Precise probably went into his bank account
at Newtown.
Shown a bank passbook opened on April
30, 1945, in the name of his wife as trustee
for himself, with £5OO apparently paid in by
cheque, he said he gave his wife a cheque
for £lOOO on their wedding anniversary. He
believed she put the other £5OO into the bank
as she hoped to buy a house. He was winning
big sums at the races between 1943 and 1945
and opened two trust accounts for his two
sons—for £250 each.
E. E. Biggs, a Brisbane solicitor, gave evi-
dence of interviews he said he had had with
Farrell (alleged by the Crown to be a member
of a syndicate with J. S. Garden, Harcourt
Garden and Ray Parer). Farrell had produced
a power of attorney from the syndicate ana
asked for “some evidence of good faith of the
company.” Later, with other representatives of
the company, he met Farrell in Sydney and
told him he did not consider the letter of
concession satisfactory. He did not doubt
Mr. Garden’s authority to sign, but he thought
the letter should be signed by the Minister.
Next day he repeated this to the vendor’s
solicitor in the presence of Farrell and Forshaw.
Later the documents were made available and
the company’s officers signed the supplementary
agreement in his office. Farrell undertook to
get Parer’s signature. On November 26 he
handed Farrell a cheque for £37,500 and
obtained a receipt.
Henry George Forshaw, logging manager for
Hancock and Gore, said that he showed a
copy of the letter confirming the concession
to Mr. Cavanagh, officer-in-charge at Lae. “He
got a little excited, jumped in the air and said
someone in Sydney must have gone mad.”
Later, while in New Guinea in 1947 he made
a plan of a pine-timber area in the Waria
Valley. He spoke to Garden and Farrell about
it as an alternative proposition, and about a
fortnight later Farrell said the Minister would
approve the plan and that the company could
go ahead with arrangements. He told Farrell
he would do nothing more until he had seen
the Minister. On November 8, 1947, he was
taken to see Mr. Ward by Garden.
Witness: The Minister said “Bulolo is out.”
I replied it would not be that easy for Parer.
Witness produced a map of Waria Valley and
spoke of the alternative proposal. Mr. Ward
referred to stands of timber in New Britain
and other parts of the territory and asked
witness to let him have witness’s idea on paper
by the following Wednesday, and to address
the letter to Garden.
Forshaw related how he returned to Brisbane,
wrote a letter in longhand which he handed to
a typist in Biggs’s office and then signed it.
At a subsequent interview with the Minister
at which Garden and McAdam (a forestry
official) were present, Forshaw said that after
discussion the Minister asked Garden “What
do you want, Jock?” and Garden replied “You
know what I want. I’ve wanted it for three
years. I don’t want it next year or next month.
I want it now. We will not get any finality
in this thing. It is the same as last week and
the week before —we never get any finality.”
To this Ward replied “Don’t be silly, Jock,”
after which the meeting broke up. In Garden’s
office Farrell asked did you get on?”
and witness replied “It smells.”
Shown a letter dated November 10, 1947,
addressed to the Minister and signed “H. G.
Forshawe,” witness denied that it was his sig-
nature. He agreed that in the document pro-
duced all matters in relation to Parer and to
the company having obtained a lease* and paid
money for it had been omitted. Page 3 was
not a copy of what he had given in the long-
hand draft to the typist.
Forshaw said that on December 15, 1947,
he went alone to the Minister and showed him
the letter of November 20, 1945. The Minister
rang for Garden and asked him why he had
signed it. Garden said “I thought it would
be all right.” Mr. Ward said “This is not
a think —it is a certainty! You had no
authority to sign my letters.” Later he went
with the Minister and the Deputy Crown
Solicitor to the Attorney-General.
Evidence was still being heard at the
beginning of this week.
Conciliators Defied.
Doctor Evatt’s wonderful new stream-
lined conciliation system was, along with
the 40-hour week, going to bring about
industrial peace and contentment.
But the country can see no concilia-
tion as a result; no rule of law. The
public is paying for every surrender to
militant arrogance in the form of rising
prices for essential goods and services,
and these grow scarcer and more pre-
carious every week. The conciliation-
commissioner system is proving futile as
a means of stopping strikes; the
union bosses, mostly Communists, now
launch them along with ultimatums to
the conciliators requiring them to grant
the demands made without question.
In this way the watersiders last Octo-
ber defied Chief Commissioner Murray
Stewart’s order, the executives of the
engineers and of the tram- an 4 busmen
in Victoria defied Commissioners Black-
burn and Mooney, the engine-drivers and
firemen stopped coal supplies from
N.S.W, for a fortnight in war against
their own chosen tribunal’s award, and
the A.R.U. struck first in Queensland and
then in Adelaide (there against Commis-
sioner Stewart again).
How the new Victorian Government
faced and vanquished these outlaws and
proved them the squibs they are by the
threat of penal legislation was a good
instance of the way to deal with therm.
The railwayman in Queensland, too, took
fright because the Railways Commis-
sioner moved to impose statutory fines
on the leaders, and the Hanlon Govern-
ment stood by him.
It has long been rumored that the
Communists are planning an industrial
upheaval in Australia for this month. In
that event it should soon be seen whether
the Chifleys and McGirrs have any modi-
cum of the intestinal courage of Holl-
way and McDonald in Victoria, or of
Hanlon in Queensland.
Howard Hinton.
On the day he died Howard Hinton, as
one of his last requests, asked a friend
to call on The Bulletin to say that the
portrait of Scorfield, which he had com-
missioned H. A. Hanke to paint, would
be added to the collection of over 1000
pictures he had given to the Teachers’
College at Armidale, N, S. Wales.
It was typical of his affection for The
Bulletin, his regard for artists, and,
above all, of his devotion to art. Another
anecdote of his last illness is also typical.
He kept a dozen or so of his favorite
paintings—Gruners, Streetons, Hilders and
Norman Lindsays—in his bedroom, and
each day when he awoke would say,
aloud, “Good morning” to each picture
in turn. At art exhibitions —and he never-
missed one nor missed a good thing on
the walls —from a Gruner in the early
days to a Lance Solomon today—he
would minutely examine every picture,
peering into it, then tapping the glass in
an affable way, as if he loved to touch
them.
English by birth, and thoroughly
acquainted with the art of Europe, he
had no doubts whatever about the quality
of Australian art, and he became one of
this country’s finest citizens, to be re-
membered with J. F. Archibald, Felton
of the Felton Bequest, and Mitchell of
the Mitchell Library. Like them, he was
a living proof of the fact that private
wealth and private connoisseurship are
more use to the arts and the community
than anything that can be done by Gov-
ernment benefaction —which means Gov-
ernment interference. To art and to
patriotic and private charities Hinton
gave away more than half a million
pounds in his lifetime.
His collection at Armidale is his
memorial, the finest array of Australian
art in existence. But he also gave the
N.S.W. National Gallery scores of pic-
tures —probably enough to fill an entire
court. The Gallery might well pay its
benefactor the tribute usually accorded
to important painters on their death and
hold a memorial exhibition of his dona-
tions. And when the promised new wings
are added one should be named after him.
Roubles, Francs and Dollars.
The world has too much paper money
and not enough goods: in British coun-
tries and America the inflation began
with the war and has continued in the
peace because of huge Government
Budgets, rising wages and costs, and re-
duced output per man-hour.
Soviet Russia had similar trouble, on
a greater scale than in the English-speak-
ing countries. Even drastic Soviet
“Controls” could not restrain the infla-
tionary effect of too much paper money
in relation to too little production ; prices
were soaring in the blackmarkets and
rationing was breaking down. Stalin’s
financial Commissars have just lately
dealt with the problem in the usual ruth-
less fashion; new roubles have been
issued for old, but only at a fraction of
the old values, and holders of Soviet
bonds have been recompensed with no
more than a third of the old face value.
France has been in currency difficulties
without much break since the end of
World War I. With last week’s devalua-
tion the franc is now 868 to the £ sterl-
ing, compared with 25 in 1914.* And the
English pound is by no means what it
used to be. The Schuman Government,
in order to catch tax-dodgers and the
like, means to do something about French
note-hoards of large denominations in
addition to external devaluation of the
currency.
Marriner S. Eccles, of the U.S. Federal
Reserve Bank, is concerned about the
excess of money—paper money—in the
United States. Although the U.S. owns
the greater part of the world’s gold stocks,
gold coins are not in circulation, and
“credit” has been created in part from
political as much as economic motives.
Prices and costs are soaring in America.
British and Australian pounds buy com-
paratively little value in the United States
at dollar prices, and the Empire has so
far been unable to sell enough of its own
production to America to provide suffi-
cient dollars to buy—at the high U.S.
prices—all the petrol, newsprint, cotton-
goods, cars, etc., that are wanted. Not all
countries of the world are equally pro-
ductive, equally able to export. The real
aftermath of war is only now being re-
vealed in the separate economies of
world communities.
Costly Humbug.
Mr. Chifley continues to assert that
high taxation is necessary to avoid infla-
tion —that if the people have more money
to spend the money will lose its value,
goods will become dearer and financial
chaos will follow. Most people have an
uneasy notion that the money question
is something for experts. Yet any man
feels that he is better off with £5 in his
pants than when he has £4. That his £5
will have less value than his £4 unless he
hands over £1 to the Government is,
boiled down, the Chifley reason for re-
fusing to reduce taxation.
On the other hand, Mr. Chifley and his
offsiders have been very slow to call for
more production from their trade-union
backers. When goods are plentiful they
are not so dear. But the productive
capacity of this country is still based,
socialist theories notwithstanding, on the
profit motive —whether in the form of
wages, dividends or other returns on in-
vestment —and it is against human nature
to expect anybody to work harder to
get a diminishing return, which is the way
the present taxation system works.
What Canberra might call “anti-
inflation taxation” has been tried for
several years now and, plainly, it doesn’t
work. Taxation for justifiable purposes
—defence, essential public services, repay-
ment of debt, etc. —is necessary within
reasonable bounds. But taxation for a
purpose that hasn’t been, and isn’t likely
to be, achieved goes close to fraud.
Which, of course, is about all the country
can expect from the political humbugs
who have controlled it with excessive
powers for far too long.
Prostitution of Power.
For all the criticism levelled at it from
time to time, Commonwealth Fuel Con-
trol was never suspected of being an
authority which could be used by State
Governments to penalise the motor-trans-
port industry in favor of their bankrupt
railways. Yet that is precisely what has
happened in the McGirr State, where the
State Fuel Board has refused to permit
road-transport operators to buy petrol
for long-distance trips which “compete
with the railways.”
These State boards are nothing more
than branches of the Commonwealth fuel
authority, though they may be State-
subsidised and State-administered, and
their duty is merely to supervise petrol
licences and the issue of petrol
coupons. It is no concern of theirs where
or how a motor-carrier of goods plies.
The fact that he holds a licence is suffi-
cient. The denial of petrol to road-users
on “competition” grounds, if allowed
to go on, can mean denial of petrol to
plane and bus services and, in the long-
run, even to private motorists. (A
few months ago a motorist with a
private licence, proposing to use his own
car for a hurried trip to a country town
on his firm’s business, applied for extra
petrol and was met with the question:
“Why don’t you go by train?” He fixed
the official with a cold eye and demanded
“Have you ever made a rush trip on a
N.S.W. train?” He got his ration.)
Nobody can doubt that the N.S.W.
Fuel Board got its orders from Mac-
quarie-street rather than from Canberra.
In a way, such obvious abuses may do
good if they make Australians realise that
unless a lot of these “controls” are
abolished more and more of them will
be used for purposes foreign to their
original one, and quite outside the prin-
ciples of democracy.
The Bank Case.
The latest hearing, before Mr. Justice
Dixon, in chambers, of counsel in the
Bank Case on the question of improving
the affidavits, had its lighter moments.
Counsel were arguing about what the
Crown’s representative called the political
character of one of the banks’ affidavits,
and after much crossfiring, Dixon, J.,
delivered himself;
Frankly, there are three things about
paragraph 21 that I do not understand.
The first is why it was put in; the second
is why it is objected to; and the third is
why it is insisted upon.
To which Dr. Coppel, for the banks, re-
plied that the pars, were a fair answer
to one of the Crown’s economises affi-
davits, and “they suffer from exactly the
same vice; but if we are to have politics,
let us have both brands.”
There was an order for amendment, on
which:
Dr. Coppel: We will have it done as
soon as possible. I am not telling your
Honor anything new when I say that Mon-
day is a public holiday and the offices will
not be open.
His Honor: But the minds of the
economists will be open on Monday as
much as on any other day.
Costs in the cause. Curtain.


Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking engogmeni
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
o7V*
POLITICAL POINTS
Chifley has a reputation, within “the
party” and among some press-boys, for
his preoccupation with econojnics. He
was “Labor’s” man on the Banking
Commission. Whatever his ability, he
must be far from easy in his mind about
currency developments in France. In
many ways his party’s policy has seemed
similar to the Leftist line in the now-
distraught Republic, Communist infiltra-
tion, the 40-hour week, reduced output
per man-hour and a leaning towards
Latin finance: against the effects of these
Australian industry, responsible financial
authorities and civil servants have been
fighting for years. Last week’s slash in
the franc, with all its political reper-
cussions, should impress even the Chifleys
that “controls” can’t for all time hold
off the effects of rotten government and
a people tragically divided.
Despite a settlement between the Dutch
and Indonesians, the Australian Water-
side Workers’ Federation says the ban on
Dutch cargo shipping remains (save for
a few exempted ships) because it was im-
posed “at the request of the Indonesian
trade-union movement, and we will only
lift or modify it when we are asked to
do so by that trade-union movement.”
This calls for a review of opinions as to
who dictates our foreign policy. Javanese
Communists, sbme of whom were Jap-
anese collaborators, obviously fill a place.
The claim by the Com.-run Seamen’s
Union that the Hanlon Government’s
dredge-hands are being employed as
nightwatchmen without overtime, which
is part of the excuse for declaring Queens-
land ports “black,” is the usual thing of
its kind. What they are aiming at is
Hanlon’s anti-strike law, which squashed
the 1946 strikes and stopped the planned
railway hold-up last year. Hanlon, an
Old Digger, and one of the old Labor
school, is a tough nut to crack.
Premier Hollway didn’t bat an eye
when Ferguson, the N.S.W. A.R.U. man,
made a threat not to send him any coal
if he persisted with the legislation that
smashed the Melbourne tram-strike.
Ferguson did, however, when Melbourne
Trades Hall coldly announced that it re-
fused to demand the repeal of the Holl-
way Act. Which shows what a bit of
guts can do.
Chifley may shortly need a secret re-
treat to get away from these Premiers.
He’d hardly got rid of the persistent
Playford from S.A. when Hanlon blew
in from Queensland, was closeted with
the P.M., then emerged to say that “Mr.
Chifley is now satisfied that Queensland
should set up its own coal board. A joint
coal board is out.” Next day it was an-
nounced that Blair Athol would send
6500 tons of coal to China next month-
yes, to China! A lot of Sydney house-
wives wouldn’t mind going with it.
The proposed shipment of Blair Athol
coal to China has raised the ire of
N.S.W. miners, who consider themselves
the proper authority for determining
what shall become of all Australian coal
—and often show a preference for leav-
ing it underground. A Federation
“spokesman” was reported as saying “In-
stead of exporting coal, Queensland
should be sending it south to assist in-
dustries and services in need of it.” It is
not so long since another “spokesman”
was threatening a ban on Queensland
opencut coal, and it is certain that if an
attempt had been madef to send the coal
to Sydney during the F.E.D.F.A. hold-up
the stuff would have been declared
blacker than a miner’s shirt. The spokes-
man didn’t suggest how the Queensland
coal was to be brought south at a time
when the Miners’ Federation’s brothers-
in-Communism, the Seamen’s Union dic-
tators, have put Queensland shipping
under an interdict. Canberra’s comment
on the subject was that the Government
had agreed to ,“a trial shipment.” Trial
for what? To see whether the stuff goes
bad on the way?
Increased production being the only
possible counter to rising prices, the
Commo-run Building Workers’ Industrial
Union has resolved to press the A.C.T.U.
“to organise general stop-work meetings
in all industries” as a demonstration
against increased costs (but not, of
course, costs of labor, the prime cause of
soaring prices for homes). In other
words, hit production, regardless of what
kind of dog, good or bad, is beaten in
the process.
Even the Zionists who howled loudest
for British withdrawal from Palestine
must be wishing they’d had less to say.
The British will evacuate the place about
mid-May, and a million or so fanatical
Moslems are sharpening their skewers
in anticipation of a festival of slaughter.
U.N.O. is supposed to “have the matter
in hand,” but about all it seems able to
manage is some gesture about an “inter-
national army” to enforce partition. The
conviction is spreading rapidly that the
old British system of keeping the peace
in these wild places was miles ahead of
newfangled “international” notions of
self-government.
Communists and Parlor Pinks in vari-
ous parts let loose a yelp of joy when
they heard that the Soviet-dominated
Eastern European countries —Yugoslavia,
Bulgaria, Rumania, Hungary, Poland and
perhaps Czechoslovakia —were to form an
“Eastern European Federation and Cus-
toms Union.” To them it was Moscow’s
answer to “Fascist talk” about an alli-
ance of Western Europeans and the Mar-
shall Plan. They wrote and talked to
tell the world how* much food, money
and potential fighting-power the new
federation would have, and held it up as
a warning or something to the free
nations. But Moscow itself did a little
deep thinking, with an eye upon the
troubled Ukraine, and then denounced
the whole show. It didn’t and doesn’t
want any alliances of subject peoples.
And Mr. Dmitrov, the Communist boss
of Bulgaria who plumped for the move,
probably has a twitching in that part of
his back normally selected as target for
a bullet.
“Pravda,” kicking away the props
under the proposed Federation and Cus-
toms Union of Eastern Europe:
What these countries need is not a
problematical and artificial federation, con-
federation or Customs union, but the con-
solidation and protection of their in-
dependence and sovereignty, through the
mobilisation and organisation of their
domestic popular democratic forces.
Put more simply, Moscow intends that
these countries will stay as they are —
or else.
In the course of interviews for the
selection of Australian schoolboys to
attend the “Herald Tribune” forum in
New York, more than one bright boy,
questioned on his aspirations for the
future, expressed a wish to “get into the
diplomatic service.” Most of the lads
seemed worthy of a more useful fate.
Perhaps Paul Hasluck or MacMahon
Ball might offer a word or two of
advice.
In N.S.W. there is a Minister for Works
and Local Government by the name of
Cahill. A couple of weeks ago engine-
drivers and firemen on the N.S.W. coal-
fields went on strike and no coal was
dug for several days. Sydney electricity
and gas supplies were restricted. The
strike ended nine days ago and coal jyas
rushed to Sydney, but gas-rationing
continued until Sunday night. Who was
to blame? Mr. Cahill knows:
If the public had observed gas-rationing
it might* have been lifted on Wednesday.
If sufficient coal arrived today l F ” da y|
rationing might be lifted at midnight
Sunday. In Sydney the public as a whole
did not observe rationing.
A large, fough and housewifely rasp-
berry to Mr. Cahill.
Twice refused the dollars to buy a
dragline excavator for his Leigh Creek;
coalfield. Premier Playford headed tor
Canberra, pinned the Prime Minister
down, talked straight and hard and got
the permission. To Adelaide reporters
he let the P.M. off lightly, but a lot ot
people would have given their ears to
know 'exactly what he did say, and
whether or not the squandering of dollars
on useless “Government” meandeimgs
was mentioned.
Mr. Baddeley, Chief Secretary, is to
show N. S. Wales Cabinet, for approval,
a plan to replace the group electoral
system —Sydney 43 State seats, Newcastle
five and country 42—by a method based
on “one vote, one value,” which would
give the extremist industrial areas more
seats at the expense of rural districts.
If it is made, the change will provide
New Staters with a clinching argument
in favor of subdivision of N. S. Wales, a
matter which it would turn into an im-
mediate and live issue.
“Right-wing supporters” were credited
with a “decisive victory’-’ at the N.S.W.
Labor Council polls, but the hard fact
was that Tom Wright, vice-president of
the Communist party for years, polled
79 out' of the 220 votes of the great
Labor unions of the State. The
secretaryship went again to R. A.
King, M.L.C., and -I. D. Kenny,
formerly the Council’s president, who in
1946 said that the Communists “owed
allegiance only to a foreign Power which
supplies them with unlimited funds to
carry on their policy of espionage
and disruption,” had to be content
with the assistant-secretaryship. In any
country but Australia the fact that the
Communist party could command more
than a third of the votes of the great
unions—and a considerably greater pro-
portion of those unions concerned with
defence —would cause a panic.
There’s another Conservative in the
Commons ; Charles McFarlane, who won
the by-election for Camlachie (Glasgow)
by about 400 votes over the Attlee Labor
man. The first Conservative win since
the general election in 1945, it’s significant
on Uvo counts. McFarlane stood for an
anti-socialist policy, and Glasgow is no
Conservative paradise.
British trade-unions have had a belly-
ful of the Communist-run World Federa-
tion of Trade Unions, the outfit to which
sundry Australian Communists have
travelled without any bother about priori-
ties or travelling-tnoney from Canberra,
and they mean to call a meeting to con-
sider the Marshall plan if the W.F.T.U.
puts it off any longer, London “Daily
Telegraph” believes the W.F.T.U. is'
nearly busted ; so does the “Times,” which
these days occasionally breaks out in pink
spots. Moscow holds it would be
“futile” to approve the Marshall plan, but
then Moscow doesn’t approve any plans
for peace, food and prosperity for Europe.
Spalding and Hutcheon, both Oxford
graduates and both working on British
rocket research, are reported to have been
sacked because they were Communists.
Both claim to have resigned, and that
they “left the Communist party several
years ago.” Hutcheon says he “rejoined”
the Communists as “a protest against the
Government’s action.”' The other Com-
rade joined a shipbuilding firm, but naval-
police heaved him out- The pair should
head for Australia, where Communists
get appointed to high Government posts
with facility.
From the general condemnation of
Federal Ministers for their policy of drag-
ging more and more people on to the
Government pay-roll Transport Minister
Ward must be excepted. It came out in
evidence during the Garden case that far
from increasing the numbers of public
servants Eddie had actually been instru-
mental in removing one man from the
list and in assisting him to find civil em-
ployment.
Queensland, which has a far stronger
sentiment for these things than other
parts, staged a big Anniversary Day
function and invited all its 16 Federal)
representatives to attend. But wherever
they were the surf was good, or the fish
biting, or maybe the beer was “on’ ;
anyway, every blessed one of the 16 sent
an “apology” and stayed away. Which
was probably a vast relief when speech-
time came, though a poor compliment to
their State.
Although it costs Hd. to send a news-
paper, catalogue or small package through
the post —not so long ago it was only a
ha’penny —no more of this “second-class”
mail matter will be delivered on Satur-
days. The announcement came from the
P.M.G., it is true, but the order came
from the Postal Workers’ Union, and
when orders come from unions Canberra
(Senator Cameron to the fore) springs to
attention.
Footnote to the story of Britain’s hav-
ing to sacrifice her Argentine railway in-
vestments as part of her war distresses
is published in English press accounts of
the “exceptionally cordial atmosphere’
which the British Trade Mission found
in its reception in Buenos Ayres. The
Argentine Minister negotiating is reported
in the “Times” as having declared that
“the Argentine railways need complete
renewal and modernising of rolling-
stock,” and as asking what Britain can
do to meet these needs. It is still not the
easiest thing in the world to get on the
blind side of the Old Man.
This Government interference in health
services—promised on a grand scale with
McKenna’s bill to socialise them—has
just about bankrupted most hospitals,
raised the price of all medicines, and
antagonised the doctors. This disruption
is only in its beginnings. But for an ex-
ample of sheer blockheaded inertia the
Sydney case of the unregistered Mr.
Braund takes the cake. He has for weeks
been inviting a Government inquiry
into his claim that he can treat some cases
of cancer with success. For the public
benefit—witnessed by hordes of patients
clamoring for his attention —he offered
to demonstrate his methods to a com-
mittee. He was met by complete silence
from the N.S.W, Government. Mean-
while he was besieged by patients. Only
when a well-off citizen, in the person of
E. J. Hallstrom, announced that he would
finance the establishment of a clinic for
Mr. Braund did McGirr break silence to
say that his Government would set up an
inquiry “immediately.” Such is Gov-
ernment “initiative” in the domain of
public health.
A few weeks ago the Maryborough
Trades and Labor Council (Q.), sick and
tired of being pushed around by the
Gommo-bossed Brisbane T. and L.C.,
broke loose and set up in business on its
own. Last week local Corns made a
“stormy” attempt to revoke the decision,
and were outed by nine to four. As
somebody once feelingly remarked,
“These country blokes have too much
time to think.”
Reported during the week that a
Sydney union secretary had advocated the
legalising of two-up and s.p. betting on
the ground that as gambling couldn’t
be stopped “it should be brought out into
the open, supervised and taxed.” There
would be nothing inconsistent in N.S.W.
“Labor” setting-up State two-up schools
and s.p. joints. In 1942, when the lap
was perilously near, the McKell Govern-
ment established the Sydney Turf Club,
and the bhoys are still urging McGirr to
“control” prize-fighting.


SORE HEAD.
In spite of Moscow denials, reports persist of a revolt tn the Ukraine, which appears to have forced a change in the Soviet’s attitude to a Balkans Communist Federation.”
“Anyone who says I’ve been stung by a bee is a dirty liar!”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Pookie”: A Changi story from Geoff
Bingham, Bulletin writer and ex-p.-0.-w.,
down in Sydney to collect his M.M.
Among Changi’s more picturesque inhabi-
tants was a British major. Regular Army,
British Army in India, Poona and all
that, whose speech, carriage and fierce
moustache were equal joys to all
“colonials.” Came a camp concert, and
the major was cleverly impersonated on
the stage. Most of the audience watched
with mixed feelings of appreciation and
misgivings, for the major was a fine
fellow, and it would have been a pity to
hurt his feelings. But, judging by appear-
ances, he was taking it well. After the
show he congratulated the cast. “But,
d’ y’ know,” he said, suddenly yielding
to uncontrollable merriment, “that
colonel fella —ha-ha. There was a chappie
at Poona the dead spit of him.”
* * * *
“Jasby”: Housebound in a beach cot-
tage by a howling southerly and Sydney’s
January-winter rain we turned to the
radio as a change from playing noughts-
“What kind of beds Would you prefer: single or double P”
and-crosses with the children. We had
been warned by the owner that the set
was a locked one and would get one
station only. He was half-right. We had
barely settled down to a radio-play when
a stentorian voice broke in “Calling car
six. Proceed to King-street, Newtown.
Drunk.” The play went on, then, “Cars
four and 10. Darlinghurst-road. Dis-
turbance.” By the time the first act was
half-way through drunks had been re-
ported in four suburbs, we had been given
detailed descriptions of one lost child,
two missing women and four stolen
sedans, and the Darlinghurst disturbance
had apparently assumed the proportions
of a minor revolution as first cars two
and seven and then “any other cars in
the vicinity” had been called upon to
speed to the assistance of four and 10.
We had heard only about six uninter-
rupted lines of the play, and our respect
for the efficiency of the police radio-patrol
system was exceeded only by our hatred
of the bloke at headquarters whose fog-
horn voice didn’t seem to need the assist-
ance of radio at all. Only the fact that
one of the youngsters unearthed a box
of dominoes saved that wireless from
being kicked to bits. The rain lasted a
week. I’ve never played so many games
of dominoes in my life,
* * * *
“Wog”: Hash-house keepers interested
in being able to cut ham for sandwiches
exactly four-millionths of an inch thick
should be enthusiastic about an American
invention. A keen blade spinning at
800 m.p.h., or 60,000 revolutions a
minute, it makes laggards of electric fans
which can only limp around at 1750 revs.
The gadget’s purpose is to cut wafers of
metals, bone, teeth, fabrics, plastics, and
so on; at full-throttle it can slice rashers
weighing twenty-eight-millionths of an
ounce. Chief difficulty in the way of
ham-and-beef-shop application will be
to devise a way of getting the invisible
slither of ham between the invisible slices
of bread.
* * * ♦
“Wadman”: Scoff who will, I saw it
In a Siam prison-camp I watched a Dutch
Eurasian play an Australian colonel and
an English sergeant chess. He sat on
one side of a table, the colonel and ser-
geant on the opposite side with a chess-
board in front of each. Cotton-wool was
placed over the Eurasian’s eyes and
gauze tightly bandaged round his head
from well above his eyes to almost the tip
of his nose; the bandage was fixed to
his cheeks with sticking-plaster. Presently
the Eurasian was ready to start. He
quivered, pressed his forehead and
groaned in a low, distressing tone. His
right hand moved jerkily and uncertainly
over the chess-board before the colonel.
After a few moments the hand made
the opening move, and immediately
hovered to the board in frorft of the
sergeant. Here it went through the same
action, then returned to the board of the
colonel, who had, in the meantime, made
his move. His hand continued to pass
from board to board after each move
made by his opponents, until he had
checkmated both. Afterwards he claimed
the games had been played by the spirit
of a former well-known Dutch chess-
player, using him as a medium. What
do I say? Nothing!
* * * *
“Bulljo”: In a society perpetually
haggling about wages and overtime, even
the kids are applying materialist standards
to behavior. A schoolteacher got the
shock of her young life recently when,
on announcing that a number of pupils
would be kept in after school for their
misdemeanors, a truculent whisper floated
from the heart of the class-room: “I
wonder how much overtime she gets for
that.”
* * * *
“Ceg”: Snails for the table? Here’s
the dinkum oil from a Digger who learned
it during two years of dodging German
patrols in the mountains of Crete. Col-
lect your snails —the ordinary garden
variety do very nicely—and put them in
a sugar-bag with flour. About five dozen
of the racers provide a feed for one
person. Leave them in the flour for
about a week. This rids them of grit.
Give two boilings in water so that all
slime is thoroughly removed. By this
“Apparently consoling himself for missing out on a new-car permit."
time your mouth will be watering, so
out with a good-sized pin and lay-to.
The flesh is quite firm; a little vinegar
will be preferred by some palates. When
your own herds are exhausted your neigh-
bors will doubtless be only too willing
to grant free hunting-rights.
# * * *
“L.R.”: Slocum and Voss (B.
21 1 1 / ’48)? The Spray was a seaworthy
boat, the Tilikum wasn’t. She was origin-
ally hollowed out of a log and Voss had
added a false keel, partly decked her in,
and stepped three little masts and some
ineffective sails. His alleged ocean navi-
gation in this poor contraption was a joke
among sailors. Trying to work out of the
Derwent (Tas.) against a moderate sea-
breeze she couldn’t hold to windward
and made bad weather of conditions that
a little 12-footer would have revelled in.
There was a yarn that her departure and
landfall coincided nicely with some, sail-
ing-ship which picked her up and dropped
her not far from port.
“Bluenose”: Captain Slocum, of the
Spray, had a neat sense of humor. When
in mi4-Pacific he beheld a smoke-cloud on
the horizon and soon saw that it was
some large craft in a devil of a hurry ;
before long he was gazing at the im-
pressive sight of a battleship travelling
at full-speed. War had been declared
by America on Spain, and the vessel was
heading for the Philippines under forced
draft. As she drew abreast of Slocum’s
tiny craft a surge of foam rose under
her counter as her engines were put
astern, then a cutter was swung overside
to rescue what her captain took for a
shipwrecked sailor. Slocum got out his
flags and ran up the signal “Do you want
to be towed?” The evolution of lowering
a boat was abruptly halted, the cutter
was swung aboard again and, without
deigning to answer, the battle-wagon pro-*
ceeded on her way.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Reported from Toulouse
that French cooking, not French kicking,
has taken the edge off the Wallabies,
several of whose members were absent
from a recent match through acute
indigestion. “The wine-man,” one
said, “never leaves our glasses empty,
and I’m afraid good wine and
food is making for bad football.”
Probably the Australians feel it their
duty to work their way right through
the menu, whereas the Frenchman uses
the most careful discrimination, both in
his eating and his drinking. A Melbourne
woman artist I once met in Paris told
me the French were very bad cooks
Their food was too rich, lacked substance,
was oily and greasy and left her with a
feeling of nausea. It turned out that,
knowing no French, she had merely been
pointing to the successive items on the
menu and in two months hadn’t got be-
yond the hors d’oeuvres.
“Hie”: “Make your cocktail-party a
wow,” exhorted a recent American maga-
zine article. Use of some of the potions
listed would certainly make it a massacre.
Hiding under a sissy handle “Pousse-
cafe” was a gem, needing half an hour to
prepare, “but being well worth it for the
technicolor effect.” To achieve this pint-
sized rainbow one must use liqueurs with
different specific gravities, pouring each
in turn into the glass very gently. The
final “Pousse-cafe” contains “layers from
the bottom up of grenadine (red), creme
de cacao (black), maraschino cordial
(white), cura?ao (orange), creme Yvette
(violet) and brandy (amber),” As a
chaser to the alcoholic spectrum one can
sample a “Bikini” —served in a darkened
room so that the full effect of the flaming
vapor “collar” may be had.
* * * *
“Mullum”: If “Tourist” (B. 21/l/’4B)
lived up our way fie wouldn’t be so
positive about his definitions of bus and
coach. Coaches on a 200-mile trip stop
anywhere along the route to pick up
farmers for a mere four or five miles
to the nearest town, while bus services
carry clerlfs and counter-jumpers 30 and
40 miles to work each day.
* * * *
“Bycri”: Although “Bo” bewails the
fact that no husband can do right in his
wife’s eyes fB. 10/12/ *47), marriage is still
to be regarded as good for a man —it is
so flattering to the ego. After a day at
work when nothing seems to go the way
it should, to come home and be accused
of something once regarded as the privi-
lege of the immortals must bolster a
man’s pride in himself. This week I
have been more-or-less accused of (a)
causing rain on washing-day, ( b ) starting
a plague of ants in the frig., and (c)
producing what the papers called a “freak
gale” with its resultant seasickness when
1 took herself on a long-promised boat
trip.
* * * *
“Waarom”: The everlasting sceptic?
On the Mornington Peninsula, where there
are some of the finest gardens in Victoria,
bores sunk almost anywhere give good
water. A resident who had got good
results by calling in a diviner recom-
mended the man to a neighbor. “No,
thanks,” said the other. “I’m sinking my
new bore right at my backdoor.” The
bore delivered 30 gallons of brackish
water and then dried up.
* * * *
“Notis”: My Brisbane pub story. The
Scots sailor who was enjoying a long
cold beer not only allowed a roll of notes
to be removed from his hip-pocket, but
followed the thief to the bar-counter and
threw down a couple of notes he had
missed, saying in a rich brogue that he
could have them, too. The consternation
registered by the pickpocket was ludi-
crous, but when, he found that the whole
roll consisted of Chinese money of prac-
tically no value at all he dropped it and
ran. As the sailor pocketed his roll the
bar crowd saw the joke and Scotland s
prestige was restored.
» * * •
“Lawnstob”: A Hobart syndicate of
60 men, who, after buying 6500 tickets
in Tatts over a period of 10 years, landed
a prize of £lO,OOO, had better luck than
I had. For 20 years I belonged to a firm
in which it was the tradition for every
one, from manager to office-boy, to sub-
scribe a bob a week for the same purpose.
I left that company to join another in
which the same custom was sacred. In
30 years I have shared with hundreds of
colleagues in one munificent award of a
fiver. When this astounding success was
announced by the organiser, and he asked
what he should do with the money there
was a stunned silence; then a lad who
had just joined piped up, “Put the blmkm
stuff back into the fund and buy more
tickets.” So I never saw the color ot
my money.
TRUE ENOUGH, BUT—
“In an Australia Day broadcast, Governor-General
McKell claimed that Australians had turned this
great continent into a fruitful and prosperous
nation.”
A seasonable sentiment, we know,
A feat of which one may feel justly proud,
Still it’s a bit undignified to blow
This sounding trumpet of our own so loud.
Better to ask if means our fathers chose
To guide our steps to nationhood, their way
To make Australia what it is, are those
Which one is forced to contemplate today.
About their work they resolutely went,
Broke into silent seas and desert lands
To tame and colonise a continent
With dauntless hearts allied to tireless hands.
To lean on Governments they’d little chance
In those far days. To keep their jobs and stem
Disaster in the grip of circumstance,
Most Governments had got to lean on them.
What ads. they left for private enterprise,
You can’t forget, those pioneers of old
Who tapped the treasure that before us lies
From year to year in wool and wheat and
gold!
One hesitates to think they understood,
Those men whose names survive in dusty
shelves
If what they did was for the common good
Instead of, primarily, for themselves.
Had we worse Parliaments, I wonder, then,
Or legislators held in less repute
For service rendered without pay than when
The job became a lucrative pursuit?
A knotty question, this, whereon to touch,
A heresy, it may be, to present.
Still, for the governed, there may be too much,
A blasted lot too much, of government.
’Tis well for you, McKell, to strut and crow
So lustily and air your self-esteem.
And stress how pleasantly affairs should go
Beneath your asgis, under Chif.’s r iegime.
Still, there’s a lot will register dissent
That grabbing banks and all such half-baked
biz
Follows the path our predecessors went
Who worked to make Australia what it is.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


a great name in diamonds
1. Gleaming diamond ring in the
new claw setting £23/10/-
2. Fine pillar setting to enhance
a lovely diamond £45
3. Diamond ring in beautiful
Pillar setting £42/10/-
4. Claw coronet-set diamond ring
with one diamond each
shoulder
5. Seven-stone diamond Eternity
ring £36/10/-
6. Two beautiful double-cut
diamonds in lace setting, £35
7. Two exquisite diamonds in
unusual setting. 18ct. gold, £35
8. Fiery diamond in coronet set-
ting. Hand - engraved
shoulders £37/10/-
9. Scintillating diamond in
smartly attractive setting, £2l
KING AND PITT STREETS, SYDNEY. ’PHONE BW 2 721.
Jtes
“Oliver Filter”: About a fortnight ago
there appeared in the “Situations Vacant”
columns of the “Sydney Morning Herald”
a modest but tantalising advertisement
for the services in Sydney of a reliable
man for half an hour every Friday night.
Nature of the employment was not stated,
and replies .were to be addressed to
Williams (W.A.), a small town about 100
miles s.-w. of Perth. A week or so later
there appeared in the same columns an
equally modest and courteous advertise-
ment thanking all applicants and announc-
ing that the position had been filled. I
half-wish I’d answered the original
advertisement; yet, on the other hand, it
is generally much more intriguing to
linger over the manifold possibilities of
such minor mysteries than to solve them.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; S.A. police are busy hunt-
ing for a joker who sent them a detailed
plan showing where a body was to be
found. They took it in dead earnest,
followed the instructions of the diagram
and carefully dug—to find the carcass of
a cow.
♦ ♦ J|r #
“Youanmi”: Origins of “drongo” (B.
28/1/’48)? My theory is that the term
was borrowed from its natural habitat by
the R.A.F., which had an aptitude
amounting to genius for finding new uses
for old words. Actually, the drongo bird
is “any oscine bird of the family
Syrphidce, native of Asia, Africa and Aus-
tralia.” The word “drongo” is Malagasy,
the people who speak the lingo dwell in
Madagascar by the sea and are a mix-
ture of “Bantu and Malayan with some
Arab,” while their language belongs to
the Malagasy group of the Tagala branch
of the Indonesian or Malay sub-family of
Austronesian languages. Thank you.
* * * *
“Gamsa”: When Tauber was being
entertained at a chop-picnic at Tanunda
(S.A.), members of the Liedertafel
brought tears to his eyes by singing songs
of his old student days in Germany. On
his return to Europe, Tauber, in
sent them a set of carved wooden beer-
mugs, but a Nazi torpedo sent the gifts
to the bottom of the sea.
' » * * *
“Nakh”: Even the smallest infant born
during the late war period got some con-
ception of our late enemies. The wife
of a neighbor was telling her four-year-
old a story when he said: “Stop. I’ll tell
you a story,” and began “I was walking
along a beach and I saw a lot of laps
coming, and do you know what they
were doing?” “No,” said the mother.
“I’ve never seen laps on a beach.” “They
were trying to turn themselves into real
people.” “And did they do it?” inquired
the mother. “No, that tricked them,”
said the infant.
“Video”: Conclusive evidence? Was
in a pub in Manchester some 20 years
ago when an argument arose as to whether
a certain murderer had been executed or
not. Voices were raised and it looked
as though a bout of fisticuffs would
eventuate, when a smallish chap, of in-
offensive appearance and quiet mien,
butted in. T can settle thy argument,”
he said in a quiet voice. “’E were ’un’g
all right.” The belligerents turned on the
interrupter and said with one voice, “ ’Ow
does theaw know?” “I ’ung ’im,” said
the little chap, and returned meditatively
to his pint of mild and bitter. He was
Billington, the hangman,
* * v m
“Melbn”: Melbourne’s beaches are
probably the world’s dirtiest; if you
escape being swathed in a suit of tar or
oil from a passing steamer you are likely
to sever a muscle or a sinew on a piece
of broken bottle. All sorts of suggestions
have been made to counter the glass
menace, which preys most unhappily on
children, but nothing effective has been
accomplished. The first really construc-
tive idea has come from Councillor
Bertie of the Port Melbourne Council.
"I do hope his Majesty can take a joke!"
He says that the only solution is to make
the use of plastic in the manufacture of
beer-bottles obligatory. The proposal
has been hailed with approval in beer-
drinking circles, but is frowned on in the
underworld, where a broken bottle has
always been the traditional weapon.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: With the hoop (B.
14/1/’4B) has disappeared the pocket-
knife, once a sine qua non of lusty bby-
hood. Two generations ago the “pig-
slabbers’' sported by all juveniles were
the most popular form of currency in
boyish commerce. Depreciation was
reckoned in terms of “toothache,” which
was the degree of wobbliness of the
blades. The gadget-laden trench-knives
handed over to sons, nephews and young
brothers by homing 1914-18 Diggers tem-
porarily killed the demand for the effemi-
nate civilian weapon. By the time the
souvenirs were lost, the ambition for
knife-ownership had disappeared from
juvenile psychology. With it into the
limbo of now-lost childhood arts went
skill at the game of “peg-knife.”
* * * *
“Zake”; Accustomed by years of film-
going to American mutilation of the
language which, judging by the names
which abound from -N’ Yoik to ’Frisco,
the forebears of a microscopic portion of
the population claimed as their mother
tongue, I nearly bounced out of my
sponge-rubber seat when the introducer
at the Louis-Walcott fight wound up his
flowery presentation of champ, and chal-
lenger with “And may the superior par-
ticipant emerge triumphant! ” I am now
prepared to hear “Oh, he suffers from
an extremely aggravated conditfon of
mental instability” in place of “Aw, he’s
nuts! ”
♦ * * *
“L.L.”: Settlement of Melbourne’s six-
weeks-long greyhound racing “strike” was
effected after dog-owners had decided the
minimum increase in stake-money accept-
able to them. One of the most interested
persons present at their meeting was a
dear old soul, spotlessly dressed in black,
who squeezed into the crowded Temper-
ance Hall in Melbourne’s Savoy Theatre
while owners were vociferously arguing
'about £lOO. After listening to one
speaker trying to make himself heard
above the interjections, she turned to a
shirt-sleeved owner sitting near by.
“Hasn’t the address been given yet?” she
queried. The unprintable mutterings of
an indignant dog-owner over an inter-
jector’s statement jolted the visitor some-
what. However, judging by her smiling
comments on the noisy debate, the lady
showed great interest in the proceedings,
until the sounds of a hymn sung by a less-
militant assembly in another part of the
building wafted through the open door-
way. A few minutes later the “lost sheep”
had squeezed her way out of the smoke-
filled room to find the origin of the sing-
ing.
* * * »
“Plum”: One of the quickest jobs of
toughening-up on record is done every
year in the physiology lecture-room.
Even in these enlightened days there are
sheltered young ladies who can reach the*
university with some of the tenderer feel-
ings, supposedly peculiar to their sex, still
intact. It was one of these who com-
plained to the demonstrator at her first
excursion into the mysteries of dissec-
tion : “Oh, dear, I can’t bear frogs.”
Back came the retort courteous:
“Madam, you won’t have to.”
* * * m
“Bo”: A Hollywood director of the
“pot-boiler” opus under the stress of
some powerful emotion such as the dis-
covery that he had by mistake re-married
a former wife might allow the shady pro-
prietor of a night-club to appear clad in
a dinner-jacket other than the cream
double-breasted type. He might even so
far forget himself as to allow a police
detective to be depicted as slightly higher
in mental capacity than a quarter-wit.
But for a pretty-boy hero with varnished
hair to engage in a “thrilling” sword duel
without his wearing throughout it a wide,
nonchalant smile, while now and again
emitting a melodious laugh and making a
speech to his adversary, would be in the
final realms of unthinkableness. Anyone
who has ever observed men fighting with
bayonets, which is the closest parallel
modernity can get to the sword in lethal
combat, knows that it is carried out in
grim silence —with life itself as the stake
a man can’t afford the luxury of a pretty,
dental smile. For'Speech he confines him-
self perhaps to a thankful “that settles
that blankard!” — afterwards. But per-
haps the celluloid swordsman can afford
the carefree laugh of ivory charm —after
all, even if he is “pinked” by mistake in
the course of the duel the rubber sword
will at worst inflict a severe tickle.
♦ * * *
“Diam”: A minor version of the
mystery of the Marie Celeste was re-
cently enacted at Queenscliff, at the
entrance to Port Phillip. A yacht
approached the harbor, sailed across it
and entered the'■creek, where it was dis-
covered that the craft was unmanned. It
turned out that two lads had taken the
boat but at Mornington, beached it with
all sails set and left it for a few minutes.
When they got back it was in full sail
across the bay and a chase in a dinghy
failed to overtake it. Mornington is a
holiday resort 40 miles from Queenscliff.
* * * *
“Pedant”; The name Flinders appears
quite a lot on the map of Australia, but
here’s a queer thing. In a report of the
Proceedings of Inquiry of the Royal
Commission on Transportation to New
South Wales, held early in last century,
I find one prominent witness named Capt.
Matthew Flinder. And as Flinder the
celebrated navigator was listed all through
his 100-odd pages of evidence, even when
recalled after an interval of days. Just
when and how did the “s” come to be
tacked on? Or did the comp, who set the
report err?
* * * *
“Suvic”: The way of the reformer is
hard! A religious body in the Brisbane
suburb of Coorparoo circulated a petition
beseeching householders “to keep Jane
Russell [“The Outlaw”] in her place,
which is not Coorparoo” because the
picture “reveals too much of Jane Russell
too often,” I’m willing to bet that the
average householder will react the same
way as I did.
* * * *
“Conda”: Let me fire the last round
of the odd-numbered gun salute. Every-
thing on the starb’d side of a warship—
messes, boats, bollards, guns, etc. —is
odd-numbered and the port side even-
numbered. The starb’d side is also syno-
nomous with rank. A captain’s holy
preserve is the starb’d side of the quarter-
deck, his gig is hung on the starb’d davits,
and only the captain and flag-officers use
the starb’d gangway. Hence the analogi-
cal sequence—salutes and rank, rank and
starb’d, starb’d and odd numbers.
* * * *
“Macnell”: The Royal Navy practised
’some effective camouflaging during the
war, but none so convincing as that of
freighter decoys acting as Fleet battle-
ships and carriers. The British freighter
Pakeha, which visited Melbourne last
month, was rebuilt during the war to re-
semble battleship Revenge so closely that
cruiser Canberra, entering Aden harbor
and seeing her at a buoy, tried to establish
Morse communication, challenging Re-
venge’s ship’s company to a football
match. Not until she was almost along-
side was the “battleship’s” dilatoriness in
answering appreciated. Wooden guns and
turrets exactly counterparted the real
ship’s armament.,, Her rearing super-
structure, bridges, control-towers and
spotting-tops were built of wood and
canvas. Boats and 4in. guns were painted
on screens rigged down her length. The
merchantman’s funnel rose slimly inside
the vast tube of her namesake, and boat-
derricks, wireless - aerials, portholes,
gunnery-directors and all the impedi-
menta of a warship’s upperstructure were
meticulously duplicated. Her presence
was intended to act as dampener on
enemy raiders in the Indian Ocean. At
five-mile range Revenge’s own designer
would have been deceived.
RANDOM REFLECTIONS.
We need more Senators and Reps.
From Canberra there comes the shoyt,
Backed with suggestions on the steps
By which it may be brought about.
The framers of our laws; one learns,
Are worked too hard, tried too severely,
Seeing that all their job returns
Is merely fifteen hundred yearly.
Elsewhere are hardy advocates
Of bolder schemes. They’ve recipes
For cutting up unwieldy States
Into more handy twos and threes.
More minor Governments would make
For fuller lives and scope more ample
For progress. Hence we’re urged to take
A tip from Uncle Sam’s example.
True, all may read who take a spin
Through Solomon’s assorted stores
Of wisdom that there’s “safety in
A multitude of counsellors.”
But no such Biblical decree
The more profound belief encumbers
That merit’s more than quantity,
And quality outvalues numbers.
More members wanted? Well, perhaps,
l’m feeling far from sure
If they were more efficient chaps
We’d not be better served with fewer.
More States? To ante up the meed
Of easy recompense that waits men
For party aims and ends who plead?
It may find favor. But indeed
To name a more insistent need
I’d venture to suggest—more statesmen.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


PROGRESS OF LIGHTING
m m
i
m
m
Lamps formerly consisted of a
crude wick soaking in a container
of oil or grease. In 1783, one
Argand made the revolutionary
discovery that a circular cotton wick,
with central draught and the flame
surrounded by a glass chimney,
increased the illuminating power
enormously. By 1860, petroleum
or kerosene had also displaced the
animal and vegetable oils formerly
used.
Effective as kerosene lamps became, particularly with
the advent of the incandescent mantle, they were
superseded by the rapid development of the electric
lamp—pre-eminent for clear lighting, safety and
economy.
or an
sra
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Made in Australia for The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England.
(Sole Australian Representatives of The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England)
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • LAUNCESTON
IN A MODERN KITCHEN
\ \J //
n®
tFS
IS YOUR SLAVE
Cooking with an AGA is so easy, so
clean, and so much better. Day or
night it's ready whenever you want to
use it. AGA burns continuously a
hot oven whenever you need it.
Fuel cost? Incredibly small. AGA's
amazing heat-storage principle enables
it to give maximum efficiency with a bare minimum of fuel
in fact it is the only cooker in the world that is guar-
anted not to burn more than a stipulated quantity (which
varies with each model).
As for kitchen comfort, AGA cookers are scientifically insu-
lated. All outside surfaces (except the hot plates) remain
cool, which means a comfortable room temperature at
all times.
Investigate AGA cooking. Call at any of our branches for
a demonstration, or write tor illustrated booklet showing
how AGA cooking will save you time, work and money!
m
i
LEVIN & CO. LTD
Est. 1852 (inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney; 432
Bourke Street], Melbourne; Currie
Street, Adelaide; Cnr. Margaret
and Albert Streets, Brisbane;
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Web-
ster & Sons Ltd., Hobart;
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros.
Ltd., Perth.
*Rant Eed fs*
Kfik /&LEAMING ENAMEL
I®-) (surface for easx
V CLEANING j
m
reta'^!
food
VOUK
FLA
full
m'
K-iU
I trJ
M
I
¥ ll
A2/168
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JAMES THEODORE KAVANAGH
formerly of No. 73 Queen Street Alex-
andria.—TAKE NOTICE that DAPHINE
KAVANAGH has filed a Petition for
Divorce (No. 2950 of 1913) on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards In
her said petition she confesses her adul-
tery with one Herbert Henry Watson and
asks that the Court should exercise its
discretion in her favour and grant the
divorce notwithstanding her adultery If
vou wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Office, Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 12th
dav of April .1948 and obtain a Copy of
the Petition without charge from Messrs.
ALLAN UTHER & MANSFIELD, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, of 350 George
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BOD\,
Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
PRELUDE TO SINGAPORE.
Some Basic History.
“Ek Bum”: Events previous
to the attacks on Pearl Harbor
and Singapore are now going
into history, but are not widely
known.
Germany, Russia and Japan
were closely in contact from
1939 onwards. The Japanese
policy was to keep the peace
with Russia during the period
of preparation for aggressive
action. Germany apparently
envisioned as a certainty that
Japan would enter the war at
an appropriate stage to drive
southwards against British and
other European protectorates.
The west Pacific would be the
Japanese zone. Russia would
have India and Persia, Musso-
lini the Mediterranean and
Germany the Baltic and the oil
regions of the eastern Mediter-
ranean belt and the Suez Canal
zone.
It was a difference of opinion
between the robbers which up-
set the whole balance of the
plan. Russia, for instance, in-
sisted on controlling the Baltic
and looked like overrunning
eastern Scandinavia. Neither
Germany nor Italy was ready
to present Moscow with the
Balkans, leave the Black Sea as
a closed Russian zone or to
hand over the Dardanelles and
Persian oil.
Thus, after the Matsuoka
agreement between the Soviet
Union and Japan in March,
1941 —Stalin saw Matsuoka off
at the train in Moscow with a
memorable demonstration of
affection —matters came to a
crisis.
On June 22, 1941, Germany
attacked Russia. About that
time the British and Americans
began to break the Japanese
secret codes very successfully,
and the results were edifying.
The Japanese did not know
the codes were being broken.
The first message dredged up
was one sent from Tokyo to
the Jap Embassy in Berlin on
July 2, 1941 ; 11 days after the
Germans advanced into Poland.
It set out the policy decided
upon by a conference held that
day in the presence of the Em-
peror for coping with the chang-
ing situation:
(1) Imperial Japan shall adhere to
the policy of contributing to world
peace by establishing the Greater East
Asia Sphere of Co-prosperity, regard-
less of how the world situation may
change.
(2) The Imperial Government shall
continue its endeavor to dispose of
the China incident, and shall take
measures with a view to advancing
southward in order to establish firmly
a basis for her self-existence and self-
protection.
On the same day Matsuoka
signed a message to the Japanese
Embassy in Washington which
contained the following sen-
tences :
Concomitantly, preparations for
southward advance shall be reinforced
and the policy already decided upon
with reference to French Indo-China
and Thailand shall be executed....
Diplomatic relations shall be carried
on with extreme care. Although
every means shall be resorted to in
order to prevent the United States
from joining the war, if need be
Japan shall act in accordance with
the Three-Power Pact and shall decide
when and how force shall be em-
ployed.
Only 12 days later (July 14)
a departmental Army com-
munication relayed from Can-
ton set out the details of what
was happening in south-eastern
Asia. It mentioned a “general-
mobilisation” order which had
been issued as “expressing the
irrevocable resolution of Japan
to put an end to Anglo-Ameri-
can assistance in thwarting
Japan’s natural expansion and
her indomitable intention to
carry this out.”
Movement of troops was set
out as being urgent: “Formali-
ties, such as the dining of the
expeditionary forces and saying
farewell to them, have been dis-
pensed with. That is because
we did not wish to arouse
greatly the feelings of the
Japanese populace and because
we wished to face this new war
with a calm and cool attitude.”
To Attack Singapore
The new war referred to was
the Japanese occupation of
Indo-China, the objectives of
which were set out as “to achieve
our purposes there” and
“secondly, when the interna-
tional situation is suitable, to
launch therefrom a rapid
attack.” It was added: “This
venture we will carry out in
spite of any difficulties which
may arise.”
It was detailed that it was
intended to occupy French Indo-
China, if possible by peaceful
“ Don’t be so foolhardy, Henry—it might go off!”
means, but if necessary by force.
Thei message continued;
After the occupation of French
Indo-China, next on our schedule is
the sending of an ultimatum to the
Netherlands Indies. In the seizing
of Singapore the Navy will play the
principal part. As for the Army, in
seizing Singapore it will need only
one division and in seizing the
Netherlands Indies only two. In the
main, through the activities of our
air arm (in your city, the Spratley
Islands, Parao, Thaiese Singora,
Portuguese Timor and French Indo-
China and bur submarine fleet in the
South Seas mandate islands, Hainan
Island, and French Indo-China), we
will once and for all crush Anglo-
American military power and their
ability to assist in any schemes against
us. The troops soon to occupy
French Indo-China will be reorganised
as the 25th Army Corps [one army
consists of four divisions] and also
the 30th Army Corps, consisting of
the South China forces, which will
be assigned to special duty with air-
planes, tanks and howitzers.,. .All
preparations have been made.
Thus the invasion of Malaya
and Indonesia was planned defi-
nitely five months before the
actual attack, and the United
States and Britain knew what
was going on.
It is interesting to remember,
in parenthesis, what was happen-
ing at that moment in Australia.
The Ratliff-Thomas Affair
Section of the country had
gone Russia-mad. The political
issue of the moment was whether
two Communist officials fresh
from jail should be interned.
They had been caught red-
handed in a hide-out near Lake
Como (N.S.W.) organising plans
to Communise munition fac-
tories and sabotage war output
in preparation for something
“bigger in time and space.”
They had been sentenced, and
a special committee headed by a
former Judge later fully ap-
proved their internment and left
the reader of its report wonder-
ing why they had been treated
so mildly.
The big Communist unions,
however, were busily engaged
at the very moment the Japanese
message quoted above was
passing through the air in or-
ganising munition strikes and
threatening to hold up war-pro-
duction altogether if the two
men, who had gone on a hunger
strike, were not released. ,
The movement was led by
Mr. Ernie Thornton. The
Federal political Labor party
joined in demanding the release
of the men and in condemning
the Minister for the Army in
vituperative terms.
Dr. Evatt called the intern-
ments “unwise and unfair.”
Almost the first executive act
of the Labor Government when
it came into office in the first
week in October was to appoint
Messrs. Evatt and Forde a
special committee to consider
the internees’ cases. In the in-
terests of industrial peace, i.e.,
under pressure from the Com-
munist unions, both seditionists
were allowed to go free. The
Communist party (illegal and
suppressed) and the leaders of
the Communist unions, who had
held up munition production and
done everything to hamper the
war effort by way of leverage
in the previous three months,
were allowed to hold a public
meeting in the Sydney Town
Hall to welcome the precious
pair on their release.
Meanwhile, Japan was going
ahead apace with the joint tasks
of preparing for q warlike drive
southwards and of deceiving
Britain and the U.S.
Those Powers immediately
took action. Within a few days
diplomatic warnings were issued
to Japan by Mr. Sumner Welles,
followed by the plan for freez-
ing Japanese assets.
By July 26 Japan had advised
that it might be necessary to
consider divesting England and
the United States of all their
interests in China, and it was
ordered by the Army Minister
“that if and when things come
to the worst I want all areas
concerned to co-operate in either
destroying or seizing the con-
siderable mining and other in-
dustrial equipment and ships of
these countries. Be particularly
sure to let nothing be taken
away. I want you all to be
ready at any moment to take
this precautionary step of trans-
ferring the property of these two
nations to our control.”
Next day, in retaliation for the
British and U.S. freezing of


>
--
- ■
■MMMM
• '>
■: A
V. ■:*
Just a few drops added to Tomato Juice,
plus a squeeze of lemon, makes a most
delicious Tomato Juice Cocktail. In
fact Lea & Perrins improves the flavour
of every dish that is not sweet. There’s
only one Lea & Perrins. The finest
Worcester Sauce.
m
m
Missing Friends.
DUNLOP, Denis Patrick Shuldham.—
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
the abovenamed, formerly at Katoomba
later at Bowral, and last known to have
been employed at the American Centre at
Sydney ip June, 1944, are requested to
communicate with UPTON ETTELSON
& OWEN, Solicitors, of 395 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
j
Assurance
for the
Common
(jood
j
The funds of Australian Life Assurance, held for three million
policy holders, are administered to protect their security and
reward their thrift. To this end, they are invested widely in
Australia’s development, and to-day over £333,000,000 is
financing housing, public utilities, municipal development,
primary production and secondary industries.
The funds
of Life Assurance Offices
are for the protection
of policy holders ,
and are used for
the benefit of the community
ĵ
WISE INVESTMENTS
BRING PROFITS TO POLICY HOLDERS
& SPONSOR PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
3/167
S'
/
Vl
535
335 ?
isfp**
| C 'CA)?ETTEs
N333N
• .; , -W •jl
*7BO-7.47
Japanese assets, all trade and
currency transactions with
those countries were put upon a
licence basis.
Australian Controversy
The Australian Government
very obviously knew the danger
at that stage, and the heads of
Labor must have known it also,
since they were members of the
War Council.
On July 28 Mr. Menzies
dwelt on the danger of war and
pleaded that political dissensions
should end. On August 12 he
warned the country very sternly
that “one of the key points of
defence is Singapore,” and that
“the Government will not run
away from the plain geographi-
cal fact that Singapore is part
of the Australian frontier.”
The, Opposition, however,
showed no tendency to co-
operate. It attacked the Gov-
ernment for failing to provide
proper living standards for men
in the forces and their families ;
also the cost-plus system and
the conciliation system. Dr.
Evatt inveighed against the im-
pediments in the way of defence
due to the “growth of mono-
polies and cartels”—which were
to grow immeasurably more
under a Labor Government
within a few months.
On August 16 Tokyo was
warned by the Jap Embassy in
Washington that “Japanese-
American relations have today
reached a stage in which any-
thing might happen at any
moment, and they are likely to
grow worse suddenly as soon
as Japan makes her next move.”
The Japanese Government
took strong exception to the
shipment by the Americans of
war material to Russia. The
situation was at this stage
serious, and resulted in the issue
of another warning in Australia
by Mr. Menzies, on which Dr.
Evatt commented on August
Zz that “the possibility of
war with Japan was exag-
gerated by the Government for
political purposes.”'
The Tide at Manila
As if to contradict his allega-
tion the Japanese continued to
move southward. That week
they seized islands covering the
entrance to the Sulu Sea, off
Palawan. The port of Manila was
closed at night. Mr. Churchill
joined the ranks of those who
were trying to make the posi-
tion clear with a statement that
the Japanese were stretching out
“a grasping hand into the
southern Chinese seas, they
snatched Indo-China from the
wretched Vichy French, their
movements menace Thailand
and Singapore—the British link
with Australia and New Zea-
land —also the Philippines.
“This,” he said, “has got to
stop,” adding that “if concili-
atory efforts failed Britain
would range herself unhesitat-
ingly with the United States.”
Ready for War
In September matters cer-
tainly did not improve, and Sir
Earle Page was sent abroad to
join in a Pacific-defence confer-
ence at Singapore, and to travel
thence to the Philippines and the
United States before going to
England. It was obvious that
the Menzies Government was so
certain that war would come
that it had determined to have
a senior Minister, with first-
hand experience of the war
areas in London, to sit in the
War Cabinet when hostilities
did break out.
By the time the Curtin Gov-
ernment took office and began
to deal with such urgent prob-
lems as whether the regulations
dealing with Communists should
be loosened, whether Com-
munists in process of prosecu-
tion should be freed —they were
—and whether the Administra-
tion should bow to the order of
the “red” unions and appoint
Mr. Ward as Minister in liaison
with the industrial unions, the
crisis was imminent.
Enter To jo
In the second week the Curtin
Government was in office the
Konoye Government fell in
Tokyo and General Tojo took
office, Mr. Curtin then felt
moved to say that there were
“new and ominous portents
which threatened to bring the
conflict to our very doors,” and
that the Government was “alive
to all eventualities and precau-
tionary measures for Australia’s
defence had been taken some
time ago.” Only a matter of
weeks before his followers were
deprecating preparations.
The Japanese must have en-
joyed a hearty laugh at that
typical piece of complacency.
At that time nightly blackouts
were already regulation in
Manila, and all United States
vessels in the Far East were
ordered into friendly ports im-
mediately.
The events of the next few
weeks are almost unbelievable
in the light of what was known
at the middle of October, 1941,
after Tojo took office.
The position was clearly
shown by a radio from Admiral
Nomura, the Ambassador in
Washington, to Tojo on Octo-
ber 22;
I don’t want to be the bones of
a dead horse. I don’t want to con-
tinue this hypocritical existence de-
ceiving other people... .Please send
me your permission to return to
Japan.
China's Peril.
“Ek Dum”: The dangerous
situation, of great importance to
Australia and the world in
general, which was forecast in
these pages (B. 7/l/’4B) as likely
to develop in China, is coming
about rapidly. As eastern
Europe is becoming a Russian
province, so is eastern Asia.
A heavy censorship hangs
over the area, which is a pity,
since Chiang’s gallant and war-
worn armies would be doing
themselves a much better ser-
vice by informing the world
clearly of their sufferings and
their failures.
As was here pointed out, the
Nanking Government has never
held more than “islands” in
Manchuria. It has been unable
to run the railways in their own
zones because of the piecemeal
operation of Communist bandit
bands. Infiltration has been go-
ing on south and east of Peking.
The Communist armies of the
north are, and have been for
long, stronger than they could
possibly be on the basis of their
own resources.
The conclusion is inescapable
that the real war is between the
U.S.S.R. and China, waged with
mercenary Communist Chinese
troops, Russian-equipped, on the
side of rebellion.
Moscow has flagrantly broken
all its agreements with the
Allies, a vital one of which was
that the Chinese should have
Manchuria.
As in Eastern Europe, all
that has happened as the fruit
of the victory in which thou-
sands of American, British, Aus-
tralian and Indian lives were lost
is that Manchuria has changed
one totalitarian ruling Power for
another and a new area, as large
as the Northern Territory, and
with, a population bordering on
40,000,000, has been tucked away
along with its vast industrial re-
sources behind the iron curtain
of Communism.
It needs only one step for
Communism to push into
southern China.
Already Peking is outflanked
and even perhaps surrounded
by Communist legions in com-
mand df its main communica-
tions. The northern and
southern sides of the Yellow
Sea appear to be in the same
position. The Communists have
acquired all the area along the
Russian-held section of Korea.
In China itself, the provinces
of Shan-tung, Chih-lih, Shan-si
and Honan appear to be very
largely infiltrated if not com-
pletely Communist - controlled.
And if the report that General
Li Po-chen has broken into
Hupeh—through the Ta-pa
Mountains —is correct, Nanking
and Shanghai* are in danger of
being outflanked and the vital
main Yang-tsz inland water
route of Central China is in
danger of being cut to pieces as
the Peking-Changchun rail has
been cut in the north.
The Ta-pas run almost east
and west, forming a border be-
tween Shensi to the north and
the wild west province of Szech-
wan in the south. They run into
Hupeh, where they parallel the
Yang-tsz closely to the north.
Anybody holding them at this
point can command the river
between Hankow and Chung-
king.
There is no doubt about it
that the situation is serious de-
spite the light-hearted manner in
which Chiang insists on estimat-
ing his enemies, whom he repre-
sents as rather \ troublesome
rebels who will be quelled within
a year.


1847 1947
mm
,ttT
iiriiifrf;Sti
t
8
ft
WHIMW
II
m-
■Hl
H n
......
: ■
3
o
.
■ -*-
PERSONAL ITEMS
Air-Marshal Arthur Coningham, re-
ported lost with a British Tudor air-
liner on a trans-Atlantic flight to Ber-
muda, was a Brisbane man who reached
top rank in the RA.F. and won a string
of distinctions almost as long as his
record, which went back to the very early
days of the R.F.C. Educated in New
Zealand, he was 19 when the First World
War broke out; he served two years with
the Maorilanders in Samoa and Egypt
before joining the R.F.C. in 1916. By
the end of the scrapping he had collected
an M.C., D.S.O. and D.F.C. Work in
Kurdistan earned him a mention in dis-
patches in 1923, and a couple of years
later he received the A.F.C. for a flight
from Cairo to Kano, in Nigeria. When
«the real Airmen’s War began he was with
Bomber Command, but it was when he
was put in charge of air operations in
the Desert that his true genius revealed
itself. Working in close co-operation
with the Eighth Army, he made a great
contribution to Montgomery’s defeat of
Rommel, and when Eisenhower took
charge he became A.O.C. First Tactical
Air Force, sharing the credit for the final
African campaigns and the invasions of
Sicily and Italy. His biggest job came
after D-Day in Europe. After the Battle
of the Falaise Gap there was a threat of
confusion developing between the Tactical
Air Forces supporting the various Army
Groups ; Coningham' was given the task
of co-ordinating their activities. Created
a K.C.B. in 1942, he received a K.B.E. in
1946. He was 52 when he left on his last
flight.
No one who knows him was surprised
when Justice Harold Sprent Nicholas
came out at the summer school of the
Australian Institute of Political Science
with a strong plea for the creation of
more States. He has studied the subject
more thoroughly than most men. Back
in 1927 a Federal royal commission re-
ported on the New States sections of the
Constitution, and Nicholas was appointed
to assist it, and in 1934 the New South
Wales Government made him a royal
commissioner to report on boundaries
with a view to a possible subdivision of
the State. Nicholas is an old boy of
Hutchins School, Hobart, who took his
M. degree at Oxford, was called to the
N. Bar and became a Justice of the
Supreme Court in 1935. He has been
Chief Judge in Equity since 1939.
Horses at Sydney Royal Show this year
will pass before the critical eyes of three
N.Z. judges. Thoroughbreds, Arabs,
cobs, polo ponies and hacks will parade
before W. W. Sherratt, a Hawkes Bay
man who has bred racers, hunted in the
saddle and chased the polo ball. A per-
sistent prize-winner at South Island
shows, he is head instructor to the N.Z.
Pony Club. K. McK. Duncan, of Rangi-
tiki, will, hand out the ribbons for stud
and saddle ponies, hunters, jumpers and
children’s hacks. A vice-president of
N.Z. Pony Club, he has been breeding,
racing, riding, exhibiting and judging
all his life. From Canterbury will come
J. H. Grigg, to judge hunters and
jumpers in the day programmes. Another
thoroughbred breeder with a penchant for
jumpers, He is a steward of Canterbury
Jockey Club.
That Grand Old Woman of the Aus-
tralian stage Meta Pelham celebrated her
98th birthday the other day in Mel-
bourne. Probably the world’s oldest
living actress, she was already the oldest
practising actress when she appeared at
His Majesty’s with Gladys Mohcrieff in
pre-war days. can still play a part
from any of the scores of dramas in her
repertoire and make the scene live.
When Victorian Repatriation Commis-
sion clerk Bob Coulam, M.M., received
notification of his decoration, he aliso
had a letter of thanks from a friend
recently married in England whom
he met in a Colombo bar in 1940, on
the way to the Middle East. The letter-
stated :
Thank you for your charming letter of
congratulations. It was indeed a pity we
could not meet again while I was out in
Australia. I hope you are completely re-
covered now. Yours, Philip Mountbatten.
Elected Victorian of the
Legion of Ex-Servicemen and “-women,
Major-General C. H. Simpson, C.8.E.,
M.C., V.D., decorated in two world wars,
was one of Australia’s commanders dur-
ing the evacuation of Greece. In addi-
tion to his C.B.E. he earned the reputa-
tion of being a good bloke during the
evacuation, and it stayed with him right
through. As Signals-Officer-in-Chief,
Allied Land Forces, S.W.P.A., he kept
abreast with the rapid advance in com-
munications. A past-president of the
Melbourne Carry On Club, he is chair-
man of the Allied Master Chemists of
Aust. and a director of Columbia
Graphophone. His M-C. was won in the
first war.
“Feng-Shui” on a great Indian:
Gandhi, assassinated by a Hindu who appar-
ently resented the Mahatma standing in the
way of his desire to get at the throats of his
Moslem brothers, was the most consistent
apostle of non-violence since Christ. A caste
Hindu who wanted equality for the Untouch-
ables, he broke the Brahman rule by crossing
the sea to qualify as a solicitor in London,
After practising law in Bombay he went to
South Africa and was making thousands a year
defending expatriate Indians when he decided
that property was the root of all evil, gave
his practice up and organised agitation against
the denial of civil rights to Indians. He re-
turned to India in 1914 preaching non-violence,
and five years later led his first “civil-dis-
obedience” campaign. In 1924 he became
president of the Indian National Congress and
began a campaign for the abolition of the
salt tax; he was imprisoned, but his imprison-
ment only gave a stimulus to the civil-dis-
obedience movement. In 1931. he was sitting
in conference in London with the heads of the
British Government; next year he was back
in India reviving civil disobedience, and spent a
further year and a half in prison. He started
another campaign when India was declared a
belligerent in the Second World War, the
advice he had given England when Hitler broke
into Poland being to offer no resistance if the
Germans invaded England, but not to give
them allegiance; Englishmen would thus be a
spiritual influence throughout the world for
centuries. He was again imprisoned. For the
rest of the war he took no part in politics,
but his influence was so enormous that the
Premiers of States came to his hut for advice,
and if they didn’t take it their Government
didn’t last a fortnight. He used the fast as
a weapon just as much against his own com-
patriots when he thought they were going in
the wrong direction as against the British Raj:
the latest examples only a week or so before
his death. Gandhi at 78 was intellectually still
at the height of his powers, though wasted to
a shadow by fasts and his ascetic way of life.
He was worshipped as a god by millions, and
if he had institutionalised himself he could
have been richer than the Gaekwar of Baroda.
Shaw paid him the best tribute: “It shows
how dangerous it is to be too good.”
One man in Adelaide to whom the
Federal Act of 1911 transferring the
Northern Territory from South Australia
to the Commonwealth means very little
is Elvin Seibert, depicted here by Coven-
try. His authority as American Consul
requires him to look after the interests of
American citizens in South Australia and
the Northern Territory. Seibert hails
from Indiana and took his B.A. degree
U.S. CONSUL.
at Columbia University under Professor
Nicholas Butler. Before coming .to Aus-
tralia he wa6 stationed in the East; he
met his wife in Shanghai, when her father
was Swedish Minister to China. C
Although William Dargie has won five
Archibald Prizes, he had never seen an
Archibald Exhibition until he walked into
the National Gallery in Sydney the other
week to see what sort of a field he had
defeated to win the 1947 award. Prior,
whose portrait of Dargie here reproduced
was not entered for the prize, asked him
what sort of field it was and whether, in
view of all the criticism, he really won
the prize at all, but Dargie refused to
rise to that bait, and like a true artist
ARCHIBALD-PRIZE WINNER.
seemed more interested in the pictures he
is going to paint than in those he has
painted. He has been head of the Artists
School at the National Gallery of Vic-
toria fctr the past 18 months, and during
the war was an official artist with the
Forces—he painted Army, Navy and Air
Force scenes in the Middle East, New
Guinea, India and Burma. In addition to
his Archibald Prizes Dargie won the
Woodward and McPhillimy Awards in
1940 and the Mac Kay Prize in 1942.
Former commander of the Naval
College, Flinders, Commander John
Phinkett-Cole, R.A.N., who was on the
cruiser Canberra when she was sunk in
the battle of Savo Island in August, 1942,
has been appointed commanding officer
of the R.A.N.’s newest frigate, Culgoa,
and becomes senior officer of the R.A.N.’s
first frigate flotilla. Many Diggers re-
member his cheery face when he evacu-
ated them from Crete in 1941. He later
commanded four R.A.N. destroyers—
Vendetta, Napier. Norman and Nepal.
Still painting Melbourne’s buildings',
81-year-old Jack Corben, who, as Jack
Burke or Burkie, fought a thrilling 20-
round draw with the colored champion,
Starlight, at the old Victoria Hall, Bourke-
street, in 1893. He had many other fights
in Australia, America, Africa and Eng-
land. Coming to Australia as a two-year-
old he started work with his father at
Warrnambool nine years later, learning
everything from plumbing to making
coffins. He reckons he’ll be still painting
when he hits the century.
“Thap”;—•
Sugar-man G. Bates (B. 17/12/’47> is another
of those North Queensland characters who have
become legends in their lifetime. The North
first realised that he belonged to this group
when they read in Cobbers of the little man
who had told Dr. Wood just how big sugar-
cane could grow in Queensland; he claimed it
was big enough for house-stumps. There’s
no. place in the hinterland of Cairns where
Bates hasn’t been, and his wandering habit came
in particularly handy when chasing Jap scares
or crashed Mitchell bombers. He collects
plants—he once gave away a bundle of Cook-
town orchids from the back - country,
and only when the delighted recipients wrote
later did he learn that he had left himself
without a single specimen of the rare white
form. He collects animals and men with as
much abandon; I have seen at his place a
tame dingo; an echidna and a wild pig—a real
“Captain Cooker” which answered to Bates’s
grunt —and also a blacktracker, Frank Clune
writing his Reef book on the verandah, and a
dignified brigadier holding his finger over an
arrow- hole in a petrol-drum while Bates cut
out a plug to stop the flow.
The newly-constituted National Ad-
visory Service of the British Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries has roped in
a Maorilander to assist: G. Maxwell
Davies, lecturer on soils and fertilisers
at Massey Agricultural College. Gradu-
ating from the Massey institution in 1936,
Davies won the Bledisloe Prize as head of
his course and the Lincoln College gold
medal for farm husbandry. He won the
D.F.C. with Bomber Command and
wound up as squadron-leader.
“R.W.”: President of the Lambeth
Conference, to be held in London this
year, is the Most Reverend Geoffrey
Francis Fisher. Educated at Oxford, he
was ordained in 1912 and became
Assistant Chaplain at Marlborough Col-
lege the same year. Appointed head-
master of Repton in 1914, he remained
there until 1932. There was a good deal
of criticism when, in that year, he was
consecrated Bishop of Chester. Critics
maintained that a man who had no
clerical experience would not understand
the problems of a large diocese. They
were proved wrong when Bishop Fisher
was elevated to the See of Canterbury in
1945.
From the Moderator of the Presby-
terian Church of N.S.W.:
Re Personal Items (B. 28/1/’4B). “Replying
in the House to a series of asked by
Blain, Chifley said that Jock Garden is now
and has been for 30 years an ordained minister
of the Presbyterian Church.” I desire as
Moderator of the Presbyterian Church of New
South Wales to give an unqualified denial to
the statement that Jock Garden is or ever was
an ordained minister of the Presbyterian Church.
“X.S.”: Two Australian composers,
Allan Ryan and William Flynn, have
signed a contract with the Federal Gov-
ernment for their song “Save for a Rainy
Day,” which is to be used as a theme-
song in the next loan campaign through-
out Australia and is expected to be a
smash hit. Ryan confesses to the
authorship of numerous works of music.
He is licensee of Young and Jackson’s;
lots of the frequenters of that famous
hostelry would like to hear him express
himself musically on the theme of “Save
for a Beerless Saturday.”
Dead in Sydney a few weeks short of
his 66th birthday, Ignaz Friedman, Polish
pianist, who settled here when his third
A. tour ended just after war began.
Bom at Podgorze, near Cracow, he studied
under Adler, Reimann and Leschetizky,
and spent most of hs adult life roaming
the five continents giving recitals. In the
first flight of keyboard artists, Friedman
was happiest when interpreting the works
of his great compatriot, Chopin. None
played such dance measures as the polon-
aise, the mazurka, the waltz and the tar-
antella with greater charm. In his later
years arthritis in the left hand forced his
abandonment of the concert platform.
One of the finest services he rendered
music was his editing of the 12-volume
Breitkopf and Hartel edition of Chopin’s
works. His own compositions include a
piano quintet, a Passacaglia, pieces for
the ’cello and several songs.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 65, Wilbur Lincoln Ham,
K.C., senior silk of the Victorian Bar, of which
he was a member for 42 years. One of its
most brilliant advocates, though slow in speak-
ing, he appeared in most of the important cases
in the appelate jurisdiction. He served in
World War I with the Light Horse and came
out a major.
In Adelaide, at 63, Edwin H. Peake, Clerk
of the Legislative Council since 1937. Son
of a former S.A. Premier, he joined the Service
in 1901. He was State President of the Re-
jected Volunteers’ Association, which he founded
during World War I.
In Melbourne, at 50, Norman Alexander
Pointer, chief engineer of General Motors-
Holdens, Ltd., for 20 years. A pioneer of
the construction of the company’s plant at
Fishermen’s Bend and Pagewood, he was asso-
ciated with many of the company’s war-time
defence projects.
In Brisbane, at 71, Ernest Edward Forth,
chairman of directors of the Hutton bacon-
manufacturing concern, with which he was
associated for 54 years. He was also chairman
of United Provisions, Queensland Canning and
a director of Foggitt, Jones.
In Terang, at 78, Martin Brennan, pioneer
dairyman of Victoria’s fertile western district.
Chairman of the Terang and District Co-
operative Stores, he was also a director of
several produce concerns in his district.
In Dunedin (Ml.) at 90, Sir Henry Lindo
Ferguson, ophthalmic surgeon and dean of the
Medical Faculty, University of Otago, from
1914 to 1937. Knighted in 1924, he was a
former president of the N.Z. branch of the
B.
In Melbourne, at 69, William Cornelius Joseph
Kelly, who arrived from American 40 years
ago to establish the sporting-goods house' of
A. G. Spalding and Bros. He was secretary-
treasurer and a director of the firm at the
finish.


Women's Letter
From Melbourne
The sherry party at the Lyceum
Club given by the members of the
Centaur Trust, the Florence Night-
ingale Memorial Committee of Australia
(Vic. division) and the Royal College of
Nursing offered happy welcome-home
to Jean Headberry, second nurse to hold
the Centaur Scholarship, Margaret
Looker, Red Cross Scholarship winner
from N.S.W., who will return to her home
State to become matron of the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, and
Dorothy Abbott, Queensland Red Cross
Scholarship winner. The party also
served to farewell Violet Baker, first Vera
Scantlebury Brown Memorial Scholar-
ship winner, who leaves for England in
the Orion. Jean Headberry, Margaret
Looker and Dorothy Abbott are all ex-
members of the A.A.N.S.
The gala opening the Princess
of “The Little Foxes” lured a host
of smartly-turned-out first-nighters. Mrs.
John Mollard took the eye in a
strapless gown of white embroidered
Swiss muslin, her bare shoulders
gleaming through a white tulle scarf.
Mrs. Maurice Nathan set off her
brunette coloring with a gown and long
military cape of Chartreuse crepe em-
broidered in gold. Hazel Honeyman
allied white crepe with heavy gold orna-
ments. Over Mrs. Olive Thring’s gown
of black lace was a cape of black-and-
white ostrich feathers. Very effective was
the white fern pattern on the pale-blue
linen gown worn by Mrs. Lindsay Biggins.
Mrs. Alan Michaelis (actress Jean Dun-
can) was decorative in a new-length blue
black-patterned frock.
Farewells were said at Menzies to
Westralians Mrs. Harold Stafford and
Mrs. John Quigley, who, with their hus-
bands, have been holidaying in this city
Mrs. Stafford’s black crepe ensemble was
worn with a small black hat trimrhed
with a cluster of deep-crimson roses at
one side. Mrs. Quigley chose a dusty-
pink crepe frock and tailored black coat
which she wore with a black velvet
halo, clustered with pastel flowers.
A lovely beige crepe frock with a draped
peplum at the side was Mrs. Alan Darling-
ton’s choice ; her large beige straw hat
had a black velvet bow. Two large
blue quills adorned the black velvet hat
which Mrs. Harley Ward wore with her
aqua-blue wool crepe frock. Mrs. E.
King’s black frock featured white linen
lace pockets on the bodice. Her small
off-the-face hat was highlighted with
white corded pleated ribbon quills. A
white lace blouse contrasted with the
smart black crepe jacket suit worn by
Dulcie Fraser.
White flowers decorated St. John’s
Church, Toorak, when Roberta Wallace,
twin daughter of Lady Best and the late
Sir Robert Best, was married to Bernard
Lionel, younger son of Mr. and Mrs. H.
H. Hudson, of Malvern, by Canon L. L.
Wenzel. Roberta chose a slim-fitting
gown of ivory slipper satin, the bodice
featuring a transparent yoke trimmed
with pearls. Her long tulle veil fell from
a wreath of orange-blossom ; her bouquet
was a sheaf of Christmas-lilies. Mrs. B.
H. Gordon, the bridegroom’s sister, was
matron-of-honor. Her pale-blue mar-
quisette gown was mounted on stiffened
satin, and she wore a small headdress of
blue feather flowers. James Fanning was
best man. Reception was held at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Allan Powell, in
St. George’s-road, Toorak.
Music-lovers eagerly await the opening
of the Grand Opera Season, which has
been organised by the National Theatre
Committee, at the Princess Theatre. First
opera will be “Aida” on February 20,
under the baton of Joseph Post. Twenty-
year-old Betna Pontin, a former steno-
grapher, will sing the title role, and
associated with her will be another 20-
year-old. singer, Justine Rettie, daughter
of the Rev. and Mrs. D. Rettie, of Pres-
ton. These girls and other previously
“unknown” singers were guests at a party
given at the National Theatre by its
president, knight Robert Knox, and mem-
bers of the committee. The Knox lady,
who wore a wide-brimmed black straw
hat with her black crepe ensemble,
assisted her husband to receive the guests.
Mrs. H. F. Wright, wife of the Nether-
lands Consul, wore a white silk frock
patterned in cyclamen and yellow and
a small white hat. Mrs. Cyril Tonkin’s
navy crepe frock had a knife-pleated
skirt; her hat was of white straw. Mrs.
Joseph Post’s large black hat, tied under
her chin with ribbon, was worn with a
beige jacket suit. Other guests included
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, Miss Linda Byron
Moore, Miss Myra Roper, principal of
the University Women’s College, and Mr.
and Mrs. Jim Penberthy, she in a blue-
and-white-patterned frock and large
shady white panama hat.
A party was given at Greenknowe by
Robert and Rosemary Lindsay to cele-
brate the christening of their four-months-
old son Robert David. Rosemary, who
was assisted by her parents, knight
Robert Knox and his wife, wore an ankle-
length rust-red chiffon frock and a cur-
vette from which fell a long matching
ostrich feather. Roma Windeyer, one of
the baby’s godmothers (the other, Doris
Mason, lives in London), wore a dusty-
pink crepe frock. Mrs. David Knox wore
a white off-the-face hat with her black
frock, Mrs. Douglas Stephens’s hat was
notable: large and of black straw, the
edge of the brim was laden with white
roses. Another outstanding hat was
worn by Mrs. Norman Myer; white, it
was modelled on French Legion lines and
was worn with a white crepe frock. Beth
Northcott, daughter of N.S.W. Governor,
Lieut.-General John Northcott, teamed
a field-flower-adorned hat with her pastel-
blue frock. Mrs. Jo Gullett’s white crepe
dinner-gown was sewn with gold sequins.
This picture of Mrs. Norman Martin,
wife of Victoria’s Agent-General in
London, was taken on the Orion as the
ship came into Port Melbourne pier.
Mrs. Martin will be in this city for five
weeks, and during her stay will be re-
united with her daughter Dell and her
grandchildren. She is well known
for her war work —the Country Leave
Club was organised by her. Mrs. Martin
was at Princess Elizabeth’s wedding. With
her husband she has helped distribute the
food parcels sent from this State. A son,
Neil, has remained in England to do an
agricultural course.
At the civic reception accorded Vic-
toria’s Agent-General and Mrs. Martin
the latter wore a pale-grey frock which
featured a draped skirt of mid-calf
length ; her small hat had a shoulder-
length pale-grey ostrich feather trimming
and she matched her hat with English
shoes of grey lizard. The jacket suit worn
by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, was pale-pink boucle ; her small
white hat was trimmed with tiny white
water-lilies. Lorna Cohen wore a short-
sleeved Chartreuse crepe frock and a wide-
brimmed natural-straw hat banded with
black velvet ribbon. Mrs. W. K. Burn-
side’s frock was patterned in burnt-sienna
and yellow. Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald wore
an aqua-blue jacket suit and small brown
beanie with blue roses at one side. Mrs.
P. L. Coleman chose a light-brown en-
semble. Mrs. Dermot Connelly achieved
neat contrast with floral frock and black
hat. Sweeping ospreys lent distinction to
the black hat worn by Mrs. George
Formby with her white frock. Mr.
Martin, in responding, disclosed that Vic-
toria topped all States with its gift food
parcels to Britain.
Estelle, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
L. Joel, of Queens-road, has announced
her engagement to David, only son of
Mrs. M. B. Elkman, of Double Bay,
Sydney, and the late Mr. Elkman. David,
who holds the Bachelor of Aeronautical
Engineering degree, will make his home
in Melbourne after the wedding, the date
of which will depend on the acquisition
of a flat.
From Sydney
Sometimes it is the Generals who are
in the spotlight, sometimes it’s the
Admirals. Last week the Navy focused
the gaze. U.S. Task Force 38 sailed into
Port Jackson, smartly took up positions
at Woolloomooloo and wharves around
the Quay handy to the city, and from
Friday onwards Sydney streets and cafes
have glittered with the deep-blue-and-
white of the ratings, the blue-and-gold of
the higher-ups. Admiral Farncomb gave
a party in H.M.A.S. Australia for the
visitors. Among the guests was Mrs.
Ray Higgins, of St. Paul, Minnesota, She
is a daughter of America’s Ambassador
Robert Butler. On Sunday night men of
the Task Force and crowds of attractive
partners danced at the Trocadero. On
Sunday Admiral Martin and officers of
aircraft-carrier Valley Forge and the
destroyers of the visiting Task Force flew
to Canberra and back. On Monday the
Australian-American Society gave a
buffet lunch in the Trocadero.
U.S. Consul-General Orsen Nielsen and
his wife welcomed all America in Sydney
to a reception in honor of Rear-Admiral
Martin and officers of the Task Force.
This was a cocktail affair, and was timed
from five-thirty onwards. It was in the
ballroom of the Australia, and from the
Admiral down to the two stripling ratings
who seemed to be doing a press job, those
U.S. Navy lads were certainly nice-
looking. Mrs. Nielsen’s frock of mauve-
blue was a ground-length late-afternoon
masterpiece. The party got under weigh
rapidly, and was gathering nice speed at
ten past six. At that time it looked as
though there’d be about five men to
every woman —never a drawback. U.S.
Ambassador Butler arrived with daughters
Mrs. R. Higgins and Catherine. Honor-
able mention to Mrs. Higgins for nice
hair-do, with black velvet bow tying
the soft wave on the neck. Lieut.-
General Berryman and Mrs. Berryman
and Brigadier and Mrs. Pulver were there.
A long black skirt and white sharkskin
jacket were worn by Mrs. H. B. Farn-
comb. A late-afternoon frock in black
and a small black hat were worn by Mrs.
Florence Taylor. The Donald Coburns
came down from Sutton Forest for the
party.
As alert and friendly as she looks in
this photograph is Lady Binney, wife of
Sir Hugh Binney, Governor of Tasmania.
Lady Binney is Commandant-in-Chief of
all V.As. in Tasmania, and she brought
knowledge and experience to that job,
as before her marriage she was Com-
mandant of V.As. in Scotland. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
Back in Sydney, Mrs. Persia Porter,
Assistant-Controller of V.As. in this
State, tells of an interesting and stimulat-
ing talk on the work of V.A. and Red
Cross she and Lady Binney had over
morning-tea in Government House, Tas-
mania, where Mrs. Porter lately spent
four weeks’ holiday.
Ballet, that romantic and transitory
sphere cut off from the rest of the world
by a hedge flowering with dreams, opened
its vistas of lakes and mysterious country
last Saturday night. Here were enchanted
swans, as though any swan holds not en-
chantment enough in its grace and fluent
motion. Here were people of nobility,
people of Venetian-glass fragility, people
at once so simple and so sophisticated
that the world of reality and the wild
woodland world were as interchangeable
as th 6 swift play of sun and shadow on av
grassy slope. In short, Saturday night
was the opening of the Ballet Rambert.
It was a plush opening, too. Up to the
Tivoli door purred hundreds of cars, lots
of them apparently made over to get that
“new look.” But there was nothing made
over#in the women’s frocks. Chiffons,
laces, muslins and silks billowed, fell in
graceful folds, were draped, or swirled
according to the contour beneath them.
Maybe here and there a contour and a
frock seemed to be having a little argu-
ment. Still, the crowds came rolling in
till the gaze of D. D. O’Connor, managing
serang, gleamed with “full house” con-
tentment. And well he might. There are
no dollar or franc cuts about this outfit.
It is sterling-tailored. Ballet Rambert is
all-British.
The night brought out shawls, lovely
embroidered affairs, ostrich-feather capes
—the Ben Fuller lady’s pale-pink one a
credit to the ostrich that grew it—sari
headdresses (painter Jocelyn Rickards
adopted this style in ivory lace), rhine-
stone shoulder-straps and even a few
fans. Despite newspaper rationing a
whole company of the “S. M. Herald”
Fairfaxes were there. Mrs. Robert Dix-
son brought a party, the Ernest Lash-
mars, Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, Barbara
Knox came, and Roger Barry, just back
from Japan, and Wee Georgie Wood, just
off to Hollywood. The Harald Bowdens,
forsaking the Royal, discovered the Hay-
market. Norman Cowper and daughter
Rosemary were among the noted ; so were
ballet enthusiasts Mrs. P. Scott, Mrs.
Price Jones, Kathleen Danetree and
Frances Scully (three of her pupils were
picked by Marie Rambert for the season).
Attractive was Mrs. John Bovill in green
chiffons.
A foyer group included the A. H.
Chartres couple and the Alexander Sver-
jenskys. Mrs. Sverjensky wore with her
rose-white chiffons a silver locket on a
short antique chain. Mrs. Chartres’s
black laces were graceful, as were Mrs.
Sam Jones’s rhinestone-crusted white
chiffons and Mrs. Jo Fallon’s gold-
flecked black crepes. Patricia Smith’s
frock was a rustle of pink organdy. Pink-
and-black-striped taffeta was worn by
Mrs. Anthony Hordern jun. Alexander
Sverjensky said the amusing thing of the
evening. A trio of women was discussing
the merits of the dancers. “Ah, but there
is something lacking,” he interjected a
little sadly. “I think we all miss Mo.”
This Letter, with deep regret, takes
final farewell of Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, a
splendid citizen and a woman of great
charm. The C.W.A. owed much to her
enthusiasm and ability. In 1935 she was
awarded the 0.8. E.
Celebrations in honor of Captain
Phillip crowded the Women Pioneers’
Club last Wednesday afternoon. The
younger descendants of the men and
women who stayed in the new land and
by hard danger and endeavor made the
dreams they had brought from the old
blossom in it, were there in force —many
of their forebears looking down on them
from the miniatures on the club walls.
The atmosphere was a cheerful brew of
gladioli, sherry, Chopin and chatter. The
Chopin, and other good music, was dis-
pensed by pianist Kathleen Dempsey, the
sherry came in handy for the toasts, and
the chatter babbled on like a busy little
brook in sunlight. And why shouldn’t
the Australian be sunny when, directed
by speaker Frank Walton, she re-
flected on all the treasure Captain
Phillip had brought with him?
Mrs. Hellicar, deputising for president
Mrs. Vallack, who was away through ill-
ness, gave the toast of the great man,
while among those joining in were Mrs.
Lingham, Mrs. Wentworth-Grayson,
Mr. R. King, representing knight
Alfred Davidson, president of the men
Pioneers, the Guy Blaxlands, the Histori-
cal Society’s Alfred Stephen, Mr. Cramp,
Aubrey Halloran, brilliant E. C. B. Mac-
Laurin and tall Hilda Childs, with her
good-looking father, 70 years young.
Up in David Jones’s Art Gallery there’s
a quiet little show that is not rocking
the city. It is a collection of Continental
prints, and the interesting thing about
them is the diversity of approach to even
such banal subjects as still-lifes. The
nudes, too, have a vibrant, natural look
about them—they are not merely hunks
of flesh caught up in the abattoirs of
life. No one could fail to be attracted
by the delicate treatment of Picasso’s
“Torso Rose.” Van Gogh’s “Green Corn,”
Cezanne’s “Blue Vase” and Van Gogh’s
“Chestnuts in Flower” are delights that
need not be missed till February 6, when
the show closes. In one corner of the
Gallery, too, are fabrics suitable for cur-
tains —all designed by Australian artists.
They have the added beauty of being
coupon-free.
Tommy Cochran is coming back for
a visit to his own Australia—though,
indeed, everywhere is home to Tommy,
so welcome are his wit and kindliness to
every nationality. This writer met
friends of Tommy in Brussels, Florence,
Rome, Paris and even Oxford. Tommy
comes in the Orion and tells of Lord
Nuffield, with whom Lady Nuffield
travelled out as far as Colombo. Lord N.’s
chief distraction was playing quoit tennis,
and he was just beaten in the finals. This
is Lord N.’s pet game since he gave up
bicycling. The Orion’s poet wrote of
him “Here’s Lord Nuffield/who throws
the golden quoit of largesse from Sydney
to Penzance, and teaches the Empire once
again to dance the Morris dance.”
Ernest Fisk was aboard, intensive in an
athletic routine that included climbing
the ship’s masts.
Another pretty bride to the credit of
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, was Evelyn
Lea, who, on Thursday, night, became
Mrs. Kenneth Wright at the old-estab-
lished matrimonial tryst. Nobody should
feel more at home in St. Mark’s than
Evelyn, for her father, the late Canon
Howard Lea, was rector there for 20 years
and upwards. Bridegroom is the only
son of the Basil Wrights, of London, and
is a physicist engaged in Scientific and
Industrial Research. Mrs. Wright did
her bit of war service—three years in the
army as occupational therapist.


ĵ
SECURITY For the Performance of Trusts
• The Trustees, Executors &• Agency
Co. Ltd. is specially constituted under
Act of Parliament.
• It is the oldest Trustee Company in
Australia.
9 Is constantly available.
• Provides prompt and efficient service.
• Is impartial and sympathetic.
#
# Has unrivalled experience in estate
administration.
The Trustees Executors stud Agency Company Led.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Eennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Coiman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M.S.. Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.; G. D. Young.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,559.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
B T. Hilcler (Chairman); John • Cadwallader ;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.0., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Drug Houses of Australia
Drug Houses and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends >, Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.f
1939 171,552 6} p.e.= 158,594 12,958 399,933
Unexplained reductions, £7556 .. 392,377
1940 183,001 3000 6i p.c.= 160,891 19,110 411,487
Unexplained additions, £lO2B .. 412,515
1941 193,818 6000 6i p.c.= 160,891 26,927 439,442
Unexplained additions, £20,539 .. 459,981
1942 183,551 6000 6* p.c.= 160,891 16,660 476,641
Unexplained additions, £29,213 .. 505,854
1943 181,546 6000 p.c.= 160,890 14,656 520,510
Unexplained additions, £39,351 . . 559,861
1944 181,369 6000 6J p.c.= 160,890 14,479 574,340
Unexplained additions, £140,023 .. 714,363
1945 179,479 6000 8 p.c.= 198,019 689,823
Unexplained additions, £90,626 .. 780,449
1940 186,350 6000 6J p.c.= 162,326 18,024 798,473
Unexplained additions, £199,260 .. 997,733
1947 214,437 6000 7 p.c.= 179,806 28,631 1,026,364
* After deducting outsiders’ interest,
t Subject to intangibles.
The outlook for manufacture of drugs,
proprietary medicines, cosmetics, toilet
goods, etc., is now more encouraging than
at any time since this group of Australian
drug houses got together about 17 years
ago to mitigate the effects of aggressive
competition, reduce overhead and gain
advantages in buying, etc. The operating
subsidiaries, originally half a dozen, now
total 10:
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney; Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Felton, Grimwade
Dental Co. Ply., Ltd., Melbourne; A. M.
Bickford and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide and
Brisbane; Felton, Grimwade and Bickford,
Ltd., Perth; Taylors, Elliotts and Austra-
lian Drug Pty., Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhamp-
ton and Townsville; L. Fairthorne and Son
Pty., Ltd., Launceston; Drug Houses of
Aus. Export, Ltd., London buyers; Drexo
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, exporters; Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. was
added to the list last term. The price paid
for the business and method of settlement
aren’t mentioned, but appearances are
that D.H.A. exchanged 41,000 of its own
f.-p. ords. for 35,000 shares in the Hudson
co. In addition the group has £255,383
(up £60,150) invested in cos. other than
subsidiaries.
War virtually cut off the large import
trade with Britain, U.S.A., France and
Germany in cosmetics, perfumes, drugs
and proprietary medicines, etc. Since the
end of hostilities exchange, economic and
other conditions have stood in the way
of a revival of this trade, and seem likely
to do so for some time to come. For
similar reasons there are ready markets
in Asiatic countries for the types of goods
mentioned. Thus new opportunities pre-
sent themselves to Australian drug and
toilet manufacturers to expand their busi-
ness in both local and export markets.
Subject to limitations imposed by short-
ages, controls and disturbed conditions in
Asia, D.H.A. has made the most of these
opportunities. It has substantially in-
creased output in the pharmaceutical and
light-chemical fields, including many
ethical proprietary lines, and, for the most
part, demand has run ahead of produc-
tion. The research staff has succeeded in
making from Australian raw materials
many lines not previously produced
locally, and exports in considerable
quantities were made to Allied countries
during the war.
To develop the export side of
the business, which promised to
play an important part in future develop-
ments, Drexo Pty. was formed a couple
of years ago. Progress on the export side
has not yet come up to expectations be-
cause of restrictions on imports into India
and the disturbed state of Asia generally.
As the overall situation there becomes
more settled trade is expected to improve.
In Australia the manufacturing units of
the organisation are “desperately in need
of further accommodation.” The position
in this respect can be overcome only as
labor and materials become available.
Last term sales of all units in the group
increased, and the newly-acquired
Hudson business contributed to the pool,
too. So, despite steadily-rising costs, the
board was able to show an extra £28,087
of net earnings (£214,437). That was after
deducting outside interests, allowing
£68,917 (down £7095) for depreciation
and whatever was considered necessary
for taxation. It also leaves out of the
reckoning an unexplained addition of
£199,260 to reserves, of which £117,949
might have been on account of share
premiums. In Feb., 1947, 314,531 new
£1 ords. were issued, one for eight, at
a premium of 7s. 6d. each. The board
doesn’t say definitely what was done with
the premium money. The £214,437 of
profit, easily the best to date, covered
pref. requirements and 8.1 p.c. on average
ord. capital, compared with 7.2, 7,7, 7.1,
7.1, 7.5 and 7.2 p.c back to 1940. The
div., steady at 61 p.c, since 1937, with a
11 p.c. victory bonus added in 1945, was
lifted to 7 p.c. The £1,026,364 of reserves
are labelled nominal because they are
subject to goodwill (£320,602) and excess
of cost of inter-co. holdings over their
par value (£791,255, up £35,000).
Although the margin between net earn-
ings and distributions is not wide, and
costs have risen considerably since the
close of accounts, an overall lift in the
selling price of main drug lines was re-
cently approved, turnover continues to
advance, and is expected to remain at
a high level for some time. The market
notes all this, and expects shareholders to
be asked for more when the big pro-
gramme of expansion gets under way—
it includes erection of new laboratories
at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Perth and of new warehouses and offices
at Sydney, Melbourne, Hobart and Adel-
aide. Hence the ords. are priced at 435.,
giving an immediate return of 3.2 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 30s.
6d. yield 3.9 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£2B 9s. prefs. and 19s. 4d. ords.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion: —•
D.H.A. and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1939. 1946. 194 V.
D.H.A. .. - .. £2,439,912 £2,575,244 £2,930,775
Outside interests* 79,111 5,599 5,978
Mortgages ~ 75,400 79,507 79,507
Sundry creditors. . 098,191 1,861,051 1,496,190
Freehold, plant, etc. 869,463 850,950 908,820
Shares, etc. . . 76,489 195,233 255,383
Stocks .. .. 940,800 1,775,044 2,238,011
Book debts .*. 886,355 847,509 935,225
Cash, etc. . . 17,429 147,275 124,474
Suspense account. . 14,194 39,954 68,763
Excess cost shares 719,772 756,255 791,255
Goodwill, etc. . . 261,937 289,725 320,602
* Including proportion of undistributed plbfits.
The new capital (£355,531), share
premiums (£117,949) and., an extra
£134,539 from trade crlptors went
mainly into stocks (up share-
holdings (up £60,150) and fixed assets
(up £51,870). Improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£2,046,759) was
£482,302.
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1939. . 57,671 9 p.c. == 40,500 1 12171 514,501
To staff fund, £5OOO . .■)
1940.. 46,862 9 p.c. = 40,500 .6,362 520,863
1941.. 51,559 9 ~ ~ 40,500 | a 059 596 922
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 5 6,059 5i6,9ZZ
1942.. 00,874 9 p.c. = 40,500 540996
To staff fund, £5OOO 54A
1943.. 61,674 9 p.c. = 40,500 \,a 558 470
To staff fund, £5OOO .. f 16,174 558 ’
1944.. 66,276 10 p.c. = 45,000 | .<1 276 569 746
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..S’ ’
1945.. 67,397 10 p.c. = 45,000]
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ■ 7,307 577,143
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..,
1946.. 70,232 10 p.c. = 45,000]
To staff fund, £5OOO .. -10,232 587,375
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..
1947.. 75,159 10 p.c. = 45,000]
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ■ 15,159 602,534
W/o premises, £lO,OOO
Except for an office in London, the busi-
ness of this 85-year-old Sydney-controlled
fire, marine and accident office is con-
fined to Australia and Maoriland. For
the 15 flush years to the close of accounts
in 1927 shareholders got a steady 10 p.c.,
sweetened with £325,000 of bonus scrip.
Then the gift-giving ceased, premium in-
come fell away as values shrank, claims
increased and a loss showed up in 1932,
when the div. dropped to 5 p.c. Curtail-
ment of marine underwriting, especially
at the London end, was followed by im-
provement in the loss ratio, and income
and net earnings stepped up again as con-
ditions generally improved. The div. rose
by halting steps to 9 p.c. in 1939, reached
10 p.c. in 1944, and has remained steady
since. And it is doubtful whether better
need be expected for some time yet.
The market, which is prepared to wait
for its benefits, prices the £lO shares paid
to £5 at £l5 10s., or thereabouts. The
old official ceiling at end 1946 was £l2
12s. The immediate return at £l5 10s.
is 3.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 4 p.c.
on a 121 p.c, distribution. Net tangible
cover is £lO 10s. Bd. per share, and assets
are known to be worth more than their
book-value.
The business is stepping along in fine
style. Gross premium income (£843,113)
shot up £151,565 last term. Reinsurances
(£355,543) were £68,320 heavier, leaving
a gain of £83,245 in net premiums:
NetPre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1925.. 297,720 101,465 140,677 34.0 p.c. 49.2 p.c.
1939.. 387,358 206,958 157,683 53.4 „ 40.7 „
1940.. 348,104 186,760 143,622 t 53.6 „ 41.2 „
1941.. 373,691 179,434 172,3751 48.0 „ 46.1 „
1942.. 395,149 165,226 192,517 t 41.8 „ 48.7 „
1943.. 335,624 126,174 173,1691 37.6 „ 51.6 „
1944.. 853,561 127,318 185,7461 30.1 „ 52.6 „
1945.. 306,177 125,132 199,0844 34.2 „ 54.4 „
1946.. 404,324 141,557 228,6294 35.0 „ 56.0 „
1947.. 487,569 192,706 256,189 t 39.5 „ 52.6, „
4 After deducting investment income taxation.
Losses ran off with ,an extra £4 10s. of
each £lOO of net premiums, owing mainly
to a heavier crop of workers’-compensa-
tion and motor-vehicle claims. Fire,
marine and personal accident business
showed improved results. Another pleas-
ing feature is that the bigger business was
gathered at £4 p.c. less cost. The under-
writing surplus was £4536 stronger at
£38,674 or 8.6 p.c. on capital. There was
little change in interest and rents
(£36,550, up £397) at 8.1 p.c. on capital.
The board might like to see returns, from
this source more closely approximate the
dividend charge before it considers a lift
in the rate. The net return from all
sources (£75,159, up £4927) wgs 16.7 p.c.
on capital as against 15.6, 14.9, 14.7, 13.7,
13.5, 11.4 and 10.4 p.c. back to 1940.
Both shareholders and policyholders
are strongly protected:
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Creditors* . . 148,922 375,112 371,390 405,309
Government
securities . . 468,723 710,890 642,850 652,850
Cash, book
debts, etc... 393,584 514,232 600,390 633,602
Debentures . . 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages . . 109,745 55,771 50,378 06,245
Premises . . 120,022 11.8,862 112,645 102,045
* Including taxation, etc.
The large holdings of Government securi-
ties (up £10,000) and cash, etc. (up
£33,212) explain the low net return from
investments, which was 3.4 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined).
Australian Knitting Mills (Melb.)
f Dividends , To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1937 . . 19,070 7'i p.c. 7 1 p.c. 14,906 4,164 188,448
1938 . . 18,848 7$ „ 7i „ 14,906 3,942 192,390
1939 .. 17,656 1% „ 7J „ 14,906 2,750 195,140
1940 . . 28,736 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,111 203,251
1941 . . 29,018 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,393 211,644
To staff fund, £2OOO 209,644
1942 .. 28,435 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 7,810 217,454
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. 215,454
1943 .. 29,122 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 8,497 223,951
To staff fund, £7OOO 216,951
1944 . . 33,250 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 12,625 229,576
1945 . . 28,243 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 7,Q18 237,194
1946 .. 21,076 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 451 237,645
1947 .. 32,847 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 12,222 249,867
Prior to 1936 the co. was one of the
Yarra Falls-A.K.M. textile group. Then
it distributed, as return of capital, its
holding of 308,000 Yarra Falls ords.,
25,000 Austral Silk and Cotton shares
and £10,750 in cash. That reduced paid
capital to its present figure of £206,250
in 10,000 p.c. prefs. (they advance
with the ords. beyond that rate, and
share in surplus assets) and 540,000 ords.,
all 7s. 6d. each, and left earnings depen-
dent upon output and sales of the co.’s
own factory products. These are
marketed under four brands —“Golden
Fleece” pure-wool underwear, “Kooka-
burra” wool - and - cotton underwear,
“Golden Ray” hosiery and lingerie, and
“A.K.M.” cotton underwear and sports-
wear. It also strengthened the ratio of
reserves to capital. Still, competition was
aggressive, especially in the hosiery sec-
tion, and the ords. got only 1\ p.c. for
each of the three years to 1939, com-
pared with an average of a shade over
7 p.c. for the three years before that.
Then war altered t)ae picture, and a
steady all-round 10 p.c. has been paid
since 1940. Since the end of hostilities
the co. has enjoyed the overflowing order-
book that goes with a sellers’ market.
Chief bottleneck has been, and still is,
shortage of skilled operatives, especially
female, which has limited both the supply
of yarn and output of finished products.
To help overcome this problem a branch
factory was set up at Hamilton (Vic.)
during the 1946 term, with “satisfactory”
results. Meanwhile, productive capacity
and competitive power have been
strengthened by installation of new
cotton - spinning and worsted - spinning
plants, enabling all cotton and woollen
yarns used in, the business to be spun
in the co.’s own mills. To bring the mills
thoroughly up to date, more spinning-
plant is on order in Britain, first ship-
ments of which are expected to arrive in
about six months’ time.
Last term a ready market awaited in-
creased output, and a Government
subsidy absorbed the increased price of
raw wool and cotton. After allowing
£16,353 (down £218) for depreciation of
fixed assets, the- improvement in gross
earnings (£75,254) was £23,509. Includ-
ing ah extra £lO,lOO set aside for the
taxgatherer (£26,100), exes. (£42,407) took
£11,738 of the gain. The net result was.
£11,771 better at £32,847, or 15.9 p.c. on
capital (pref. and ord. combined), com-
pared with 10.2, 13.6, 16.1, 14.1, 13.7 and
14 p.c. back to 1941. The £12,222 that
remained after handing shareholders
their 10 p.c. lifted reserves £249,867 in
excess of goodwill (£25,000), not treated
as an asset herein. On net tangible assets
the year’s profit was a very satisfactory
7.2 p.c.
The overall picture is still one of ex-
pansion, and increases in official selling-
prices have been granted to cover, or
partly cover, advancing costs, which
threaten to win the race. In industries
like this one, where production, depends
very largely upon mechanical processes,
the 40-hour week will not only reduce
output, but will also have an effect similar
to a 10 p.c. lift in hourly wage-rates,
which have been further increased by
cost-of-living and other official adjust-
ments.
Finances are comfortable:
1941. 1945. 1940. 1947.
Paid capital.. £200,250 £200,250 £206,250 £206,250
Liabilities . . 36,114 36,118 22,353 80,348
Tax reserve . . 15,919 32,145 23,909 34,880
Freeholds, etc. 108,008 130,983 130,068 143,645
Plant, etc. . . 74,530 105,441 98,807 98,817
Stocks . . 191,449 136,357 145,577 171,524
Book debts . . 62,102 76,451 53,855 92,348
Cash, etc. . . 47,572 76,209 75,584 28,745
The year’s net addition of £13,577 to
freeholds, etc., was on account of altera-
tions to the administrative block to pro-
vide more office space, show-rooms, cafe-
teria, etc. To meet the outlay and add
£25,947 to stocks and £38,493 to book-
debts, cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£46,839 and £7995 was added to the
outside debt. There was a drop of
£1365 in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£227,389).
The market expresses its confidence in
the undertaking by pricing the shares
(ords. and prefs.) at 21s. 9d., or there-
abouts. The return at 21s. 9d. is 3.4 p.c,
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
is 16s. 6d. per share. ,
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing, Ltd.
Lack of transport and difficulties in
obtaining supplies, equipment and suit-
able native labor have retarded rehabili-
tation of Sandy Creek’s two properties in
New Guinea. On the Sandy Creek area
a small clean-up of 68oz, 9dwt. gold


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Tire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
HEAD OFFICE, SVDNE7
Out of the
soil that
bred our race
Out of the needs and
hard lessons of our Aus-
tralian life —out of our very
soil—has come the know-
ledge that the good
enduring things can be
had only through industry
and enterprise backed by
a sense of service to the
Community.
This Bank was founded
in that knowledge, ft has
served four generations
of Australians in their
enterprises.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA IID.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* 4= * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin place, Sydney.— Advt.
Public Notices.
MINING PLANT, ST. BATHANS,
Central Otago, N.Z.
The CENTRAL OTAGO LAND AND COM-
MISSION AGENCY, Tarbert St., Alex-
andra, New Zealand, instructed by Messrs.
Fraser and Macdonald, Solicitors, Ran-
furly, Liquidators of the KILDARE CON-
SOLIDATED GOLD MINING COMPANY
LIMITED (in liquidation), will sell by
Auction on Friday, 27th February, the
WHOLE of the PLANT of the company,
including about 4500 ft. piping (301 n.
down), mainly fit for pressure, llin., 9in.
and 7in. directors, Reducers, Bends,
Ripples, Elevator Throats, Jets, Brass
Nozzles, Gate Valves, Air Valves, Ex-
pansion Joints, Galv. Rope, etc., etc.
Further particulars from the Auctioneers.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
niter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
10-13 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
ADVERTISEMENT OF A PROSPECTUS
The requirements of Section 137 of the New South Wales
Companies Act relating to Prospectuses have not been fully
complied with herein, and applications for debentures will be
received only upon one of the forms of application referred
to In, and annexed to, a printed copy of the full prospectus.
(The prospectus is dated the 14th day of January, 1948, and a
has been filed with the Registrar-General of the State
of New South Wales who takes no responsibility for its
contents.)
N.Z. FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED
(Incorporated under the “Companies Act 1933” of New Zealand
on 24th December, 1935, pursuant to an Order made under the
“Companies (Bondholders Incorporation) Act 1934-35”.)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF AN ISSUE OF $1,250,000
OF DEBENTURES.
(The debentures are repayablefat par (£100) on Ist April, 1968,
subject to the Company’s option, to redeem on and after
Ist April, 1963, upon having given six months notice.)
DIRECTORS:
AUTHORISED CAPITA!.
ISSUED CAPITA!
... £11,000,000
.... £6,203,065
RATE OF INTEREST
CURRENCY
PRICE OF ISSUE ....
15 to 20 Years
<
Par (£100)
DAVID HENRY,
Company Director,
23 Stllwell Road, Mt. Albert,
Auckland, 5.W.2.
(Chairman and Managing Director.)
ISAAC HERBERT BOAS,
Chemist,
1 Kelvin Grove, Prahran, Melbourne.
CHARLES MOORE BOWDEN, M.P.,
Public Accountant,
94 Brougham Street^Wclllngton.
HON. SIR CHARLES WILLIAM
CLANAN MARR,
K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D., J.P.,
Company Director
Telegraph Road, Pymble, Sydney.
lAN MEIKLEJOHN MATHESON,
Manufacturer,
1 Marlrl Road, Kelburn, Wellington.
WILLIAM JOHN TRUSCOTT,
Company Director,
29 Glenfell Road, Epsom, Auckland.
JAMES TYLER,
Engineer,
80 Mountain Road, Epsom, Auckland.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE.
The proceeds of the issue will be spent on buildings, plant and
equipment for the establishment of industries based on the
vast timber resources of the Company. *
The Company has sawmills, a case making factory, and a mill
producing insulating wallboard and hardboard, representing
an investment of more than £500,000. It has planned a rapid
extension of present activities and the establishment of a
kraft pulp mill.
CAPITAL SECURITY FOR DEBENTURES.
The debenture capital is secured by a first floating charge
over the assets and undertakings of the Company in New
Zealand, subject to conditions set out in the Trust Deed.
The Guardian Trust and Executors Company of New Zealand
Limited has been appointed Trustee for the Debenture Holders.
ASSETS BACKING FOR DEBENTURES.
Net tangible assets of the Company, the proceeds of this
debenture issue, and that part of the forests which will be
actively used in the industries now established and to be
established out of the proceeds of the issue, provide a backing
of £328 for each £lOO of debenture capital.
Annual payment of debenture interest is covered 1.88 times by
profits earned in 1947.
A sinking fund of one half per cent, for the first five years,
rising thereafter to 2% per cent., is provided. The money will
be used to purchase debentures in the market.
One-half of the issue (£625,000) is offered for subscription in
New Zealand, and one-half (£625,000) in Australia. The
Company reserves the right to allot more than £625.000 in
either Dominion if applications in the other Dominion should
fall short of that amount.
APPLICATIONS.
Application money (free of exchange in
capital cities) may be paid in full or ten per cent on
application and the remainder at the rate of ten per cent
payable every three months with the right to pay in full any
outstanding balance on any interest date.
Applications will be received at any office in Australia of The
Bank of Australasia, and by any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia.
(£250,000 of the debentures have been taken firm bv the
Underwriters.)
Subscription lists open at 10 a.m. on Wednesday, 28th January
1948. Lists will close at 3 p.m. on Wednesday, 18th February!
1948, or earlier if fully subscribed. y
UNDERWRITERS:
J, B. WERE & SON, ' Capel Court", 375 Collins Street, Melbourne; and
M.L.C. Building, 44 Martin Place, Sydney
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN AUSTRALIA:
Sydney:
CLARENCE DEGENHARDT & CO.,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne;
J. B. WERE & SON,
"Capel Court”, 375 Collins St. Melb.
Adelaide;
GAVIN F. GARDNER & CO.,
20 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Brisbane;
J. B. & TRANK CHARLTON,
406 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Perth:
D. J. CARMICHAEL & CO..
23 Barrack Street, Perth.
Hobart:
SMITHIES & LANGFORD,
140 Collins Street, Hobart.
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors will
proceed to allotment is £1,250,000. 1
1948 reSt 3ViU accrue on all all °tments as from 15th February,
Copies of the prospectus and application forms mav be
obtained from the Australian Agent of the Company 1 H. A
Hambly, 108 Queen Street, Melbourne; or from the Under-
writers, J. B. Were & Son, “Capel Courts 375 Collins Street
Melbourne, &nd 44 Martin Place, Sydney; or from anv
in Australia of The Bank of Austklasi4, Ld f?om members
of recognised Stock Exchanges. memoers
Ar
O
A =
A =
•A
The
RELIEF FROM 1
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is
subject to accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of
administration and uninterrupted attention to your estate and
your beneficiaries are of paramount importance. Both can be
positively assured by appointing this Company your sole
Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee.
An interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS:
James Bums, Joseph Mitchell, P. T. W. Black, Frederick
Ewen Loxton, Eric Priestley Lee.
Manager; L. S. Parker. Secretary: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.£.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR m TRUSTEE « AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
’PHONE: BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
from 2300 c.y. was made in
September last. Three months
later it was expected that sluic-
ing would be in full swing early
in 1948, and that this area would
be practically worked out the
end of the year..
Interest now centres in the
holding of some 230 acres of
river flats and terraces on the
Upper Watut, bought for
£17,688 in 1941—the last £6OOO
of the purchase money was paid
a few months ago. Here, the
chairman says, there is at least
eight years “profitable” work
ahead with one sluicing and one
hydraulic elevating plant at
work. The value of the gravel
isn’t mentioned, and nobody
knows at the moment exactly
at what level costs will firm.
The old low-level water-race
was completely destroyed, but a
limited high-level supply from
Chapman’s Creek is being
brought in, and gold production
was scheduled to begin early in
1948. Meanwhile new races are
being surveyed, but construction
will take a year or more.
The co. is faced with “con-
siderable” expenditure, and
“some time must elapse before
it is on a thoroughly sound
basis,” which means that divs.
are pushed into the future. At
end March last'co. had £16,220
in the bank, and at the close of
1947 there was £11,558 out of
£19,234 war-damage compensa-
tion still to come. Paid capital
is £77,500 in 2s. 6d. shares,
which the market prices at
2s. Id. each.
The new deposit of scheelite
recently discovered at Mt.
Rangeview, about 51 miles by
road s.-e. of Ravehswood (Q.),
doesn’t amount to much. It
occurs as a flatly-dipping pipe
at the intersection of joints in
rhyotite, and has been followed
for a distance of about 40ft.
Values vary considerably, but
appear to average about 1 p.c.
WO3. Elsewhere the stuff
occurs in small bunches and
blebs. The rhyotite and granite
outcrop alternately over a dis-
tance of about three miles. The
small size of the pipe, low
scheelite assay and refractory
nature of the lode material sug-
gest that the deposit is not a
profitable co. proposition.
What the future holds for the
Ninety Mile coppermine,
Einasleigh district (N.Q.), de-
pends upon the value and
volume of ore in the zone of
secondary enrichment below the
150 ft. level. To test this zone
thoroughly means heavier ex-
penditure than .the present syn-
dicate is prepared to undertake.
For the last 15 years the mine
has been a consistent producer
of high-grade copper ore carry-
ing good gold and silver values.
To mid-July, 1947, an aggregate
of 7617 tons ore sent to smelters
averaged 17.9 p.c. copper,
4.ldwt. gold and 18.4dwt. silver.
Only about 1000 tons ore —
little more than a year’s work
at current rate of production—
remains to be extracted from
present workings above the
150 ft. level.
* * * ,*
Westralia’s 1947 gold produc-
tion at 698,666 fine oz. was up
approximately 88,000 oz. com-
pared with 1946. Estimated
value was £7,519,373. With new
mines' joining the list of pro-
ducers, and others increasing
their yields, a higher output is
tipped for this year. A little old
gold, coins, jewellery, etc., is still
coming into the mint. Receipts
last year were valued at £7319.
* * * *
Freney Oil (W.A.), which has
been accumulating equipment at
its Kimberley bore site, expects
to resume deep drilling at the
close of the rainy season in
April. A reciprocal arrange-
ment has been made with the
Vacuum group, which is also
interested in the hunt for oil in
the Kimberleys, for exchange of
technical and other information.


FIT FOR A KING'
iPD
Q
• • •
pendable
TOP BOG
PRODUCT
The responsibility of planning
your dependants’ security is a
very personal one and one to
which you should devote much
thought. Above all avoid delay
in taking action. A simple,
direct and very definite way of
assuring security for yours, is,
by arranging adequate life assur-
ance. The Equitable Probate &
General Insurance Co. Ltd.
will advise you.
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager,
EQUITABLE PROBATE
t BENtBAI, INSURANCE CO. LTD.
//etKf ff/fice- 17/-373Quw/tSt, Brisbane
WINCELLO HOUSE, ANGEL PLACE, SVDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE. COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSCXN $
dsuixrvAK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
BALLET RAMBERT.
The Ballet Rambert opened at
Sydney Tiv. with a coldly beauti-
ful performance of the second
act of “The Swan Lake.” It was
almost too cold. Although, in
this version of it, anyway, the
dancing is all that really matters,
there is still sufficient cause and
need for a breath of emotion ;
not the softer, cool romanticism
of “Les Sylphides,” but some-
thing a shade less remote than
the icy, glittering brilliance im-
parted to the performance by
the exquisite but detached pre-
cision and grace of Belinda
Wright as the Swan Princess.
Walter Gore’s dancing as the
Prince was magnificent, the pas
de quatre■ as neat and popular
as ever, and the dancing by
Annette Chappell, Paula Hinton
and, particularly, John Gilpin in
the pas de trois was the best
of its kind for the evening, but
none of them could break
through the atmosphere of
frozen loveliness created by Miss
Wright’s dancing. Coldly classi-
cal as it is, “The Swan Lake” is
not quite frozen. Still, the fault
was barely a shadow —a not-
uncommon one in any opening
ballet of an opening night—and
it probably vanished as lightly
with the second performance as
it rested on the first.
“Lady Into Fox” is an in-
terpretation of David Garnett’s
story of Mrs. Tebrick, who, un-
accountably but undeniably,
changes into a vixen. In
the ballet, the physical trans-
formation is immediate, but
the mental change is gradual
—fear and bewilderment at
first, a growing wildness and
savagery and then a final panic-
stricken desperation to escape
to the moors from the confining
walls of the house. Impossible
as it may sound for ballet, the
interpretation is completely and
remarkably successful, neither
Itagic nor dramatic, but perfectly
set and maintained in a mood
of slightly pathetic whimsy.
Sally Gilmour’s expression of
cat-like, animal grace in terms
of human dancing is as remark-
able as her translation of animal
fears and emotions in terms of
human acting. She is a superb
dancer and a superb actress ; so
good, in fact, and so apparently
effortless that, in this ballet at
least, the perfection of the final
and complete achievement
almost obscures the talents she
uses to attain it. As the fox
ridding itself of an encumbering
gown, or scratching at doors and
leaping at windows for escape
from the house, or crouching
tired and frightened by a chair,
she conveys such a startlingly
accurate nature-study that one
almost forgets the lightness and
grace of her dancing and the
expressiveness of her acting.
Altogether a remarkable per-
formance of a remarkably suc-
cessful experiment in ballet.
“Lady Into Fox” was fol-
lowed by an essentially good-
humored “Soiree Musicale,” a
gay, graceful pastel to a Britten
arrangement of some Rossini
ebullience. A bolero by Sara
Luzita, Paula' Hinton and Bar-
bara Grimes gave it a centre-
piece.
It was a sad, sad thing to
conclude such an excellent pro-
gramme with such a momentous
washout as “Peter and the
Wolf.” Prokofiev’s musical
“fable” was enacted against an
ugly background of long-handled
mops, planks, rope and a step-
ladder, and accompanied by a
disembodied and unnecessary
narration from amplifiers beside
the stage. The dancing is not-
able for an almost complete lack
of grace and, except for a patch
or two of mimicry by Sally
Gilmour as Peter and Paula
Hinton as the Duck, the miming
is undistinguished. The whole
unlovely creation is a cross be-
tween a surrealist nursery-tale
and a clumsy pantomime, and,
even considering it charitably as
a burlesque of ballet, it has
neither the graceful wit nor
cleverness of, for instance,
“Fafade.”
"The Lost Generation."
Sydney Minerva has three
one-acters grouped under “Light
and Shade” Shaw’s “Village
Wooing,” a conversation-piece
which the old chap might have
dashed off on a bus-top;
Coward’s “Fumed Oak,” a re-
bellion by a long-suffering hus-
band against the domestic
tyranny of his wife, daughter
and mother-in-law, and guaran-
teed to entertain anyone suffer-
ing from the tyranny of wives,
daughters, mothers-in-law or
anything else; and the “Lost
Generation,” an Australian play
by Lynn Foster and compressed
into one act from its original
three.
“The Lost Generation” pre-
sents the familiar statement
about the son of a soldier killed
in 1914-18 growing up to be
killed in 1939-45. The stock
characters —the one who stayed
at home, the one who couldn’t
go, the suffering wives, the
understanding friend are all
there and undisguised by the
flashback method of narration
from the ghost of the young
soldier sitting on a doorstep.
Even the stock statement —“It
won’t happen again”—is uttered,
this time by a grocer, with the
inference that the “little people”
won’t let it happen again. The
same statement and inference
have followed most wars, when,
actually, the people who try
to avert them are usually bigger
than the people who start ’em.
Tragically, in the heat of the
occasion, they’re generally
howled down by the “little
people” as pacifists or “appease-
ment-mongers.”
No one denies wars are tragic,
but life is not, as Miss Foster
seems to convey, a complete
tragedy because of them. They
are, more accurately, a part of
human history, written or un-
written, and human history is
not a tragedy. Miss Foster
would have been closer to the
mark if she had taken her cue
from “And ye shall hear of
wars and rumors of wars....”
and then written her play not
as a wail of despair, but as a
cry of the pain which is insepar-
able from the magnificent drama
of life.
John Sykes plays the young
soldier with straightforward
bluntness, Kathleen Robinson
and Sumner Locke Elliot put
more into the roles than the
authoress did, and John Tate,
as the understanding neighbor,
turns in the most comfortably
competent performance.
"The Little Foxes."
Although the form is differ-
ent, “The Little Foxes” of
Lillian Heilman, put on by
Doris Fitton and her Independ-
ents at Melbourne'Princess, has
much in common with “Mourn-
ing Becomes Electra,” played by
the same company at the
Comedy last year, and Miss
Fitton has much the same role
as a hating wife with an in-
effectual sick husband as she
had in the former drama.
All the motives in the O’Neill
play, however, are unconscious ;
in Miss Heilman’s play they are
conscious. The final drama, in
which the dying husband (John
Cameron) crawls upstairs to his
bedroom for the drug which
will stave off his heart attack
while his wife (Doris Fitton) sits
grimly watching, doesn’t arouse
the feelings of horror and pity
which O’Neill produces in a
similar situation. Still, it makes
remarkably good theatre, and
Miss Fitton, as the wife focused
on her consuming hatred for her
husband, bettered her perform-
ance in “Mourning Becomes
Electra.”
* * * *
Emily Bronte’s Wuthering
Heights has suffered in the stage
adaptation by John Davison, and
in a performance by the Aus-
tralian Academy of Dramatic
Art at the Conservatorium all
the fire and genius of Bronte
would have sunk into melo-
drama but for remarkably fine
acting by June Atwill, as Cathy.
Unfortunately Cathy dies, and
J. Nicholas Quinn, as Heath-
cliff proceeded to tear passion
to tatters in a loud and stage-
villainish voice. In the final
scenes he called “Ca-thy” so
often and lugubriously that the
lions at Taronga might have an-
swered his bellow.
At the Films.
opencer Tracy is now pre-
siding at Sydney St. James as
Judge Cass Timberlane, and, as
he nods and dozes through the
cases, he gives what should be
the standard reference work for
any future “Judge” film. Un-
biased and unawake, he keeps
the old scales weighing pound
for pound until, in the shape of
a witness, Lana Turner prances
into the film. Smitten, the Judge
marries her. M.-G.-M. could
have done very well by leaving
the whole thing there, making
it an excellent documentary
short showing traps for young
Judges. Unfortunately they
didn’t, and the remainder of the
film takes dull ages, enlivened
only by excellent shots of Sin-
clair Lewis’s “society,” to carry
the audience through some
wretched married life, dumping
them finally exactly where they
started.
* * * *
In “Something in the Wind,”
at Sydney State, Deanna Durbin
wisely sticks to her singing, and,
with the help of some fine
clowning by Donald O’Connor
and some even better singing by
Jan Peerce, she is most enter-
taining. The “support” is “Time
Off,” a fine Australian nature-
study made by Mel Nichols
and reviewed in *B. 21 /1 / ’4B.


m '/
0
020
ft
p
*
j <•>
nr-“
THERE is a better place for your money.
In a Commonwealth Savings Bank
Account it will be safe not only from
loss by theft or accident but also from
the temptation to spend carelessly.
Whilst your savings are being guarded
they also earn interest.
Every little helps towards the day when
you wish to buy something really worth-
while. Then your thrift will be repaid and
you’ll be glad you put your money in the
COMMONWEALTH
JarftHqiL BANK
Every banking facility is available af all Branches.
OSB2I-S2
SUPREME', in cum j /nxycuzcjjz
WM
vn I
7U
omm
Hcr/i
SJ&J
m
?!*•
9,1
r-f*.
S—4
gsi
*Br
Ms*
cUMMir
Guaranteed
ALL ENGLISH PENS
38 special skills build each "Summit"
Pen ... 21 progressive tests confirm
its right to be branded "Summit"
supreme the world over. 14-ct.
iridium-tipped nibs to suit every
hand • - -22/9. 31/- and 45/-
At All Sloret
and Stationers.
jTHE PEAK OF PEN PERFECTION
/
■USPKH6
SP ORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Having struck its fair share of
racing systemaniacs this page takes
a lot of rocking when it comes to
new methods of pickin’ ’em. The
Order of the Discarded Tote Ticket,
however, is awarded to a lady sighted
in a tote queue at Randwick recently.
With raceboqk in one hand and cash
in t’other she reeled off a list of
eight -numbers for place tickets.
Nothing really remarkable about that
except it was the first race of the
day and she was taking her numbers
from the fourth race,
* * * *
Any old and experienced trainer,
jockey, owner or even punter would
find it easy to write a book on the
theme of “racing ljuck”; those periods
when one can’t do a thing wrong, or,
at other times, a thing right. A case
in point in Sydney at present, jockey
Neville Sellwood; a thoroughly cap-
able, in fact better-than-average, rider,
yet at Canterbury on Saturday he
rode his 80th successive loser. Nearly
a quarter of those mounts he has
landed into the minor money, includ-
ing several hairsbreadth seconds, but
he just can’t crack a winner.
Typical of Sellwood’s ill-luck was
his ride on Whistling Wind in the
Maiden for two-year-old fillies. In
the running his mount struck bother
galore, and then, finishing much better
than anything else, failed by a stride
to overhaul the favorite, Salome (W.
Briscoe). Like Salome, Whistling
Wind is an Ajax filly and she looks
a certain winner for the near future.
In a similar event for colts and
geldings Sellwood was on a likely-
looking Helios colt in Nessus, and,
again finishing better than most, just
failed to fill a place, Bold Duke
(G. Moore) winning from Bad Lad
and All Bright.
Sellwood was in the minor money
in the Flying, finishing a moderate
third on Star Gold. Newcastle gal-
loper Smart Alick (J. Thompson), a
six-year-old son of Limarch, was the
winner, with Rose Glory next best.
An interesting runner was Black Pearl,
a Scintillation mare well-performed in
Brisbane and having her first run
in Sydney. Taking far more interest
in the strange surroundings than the
job in hand, she finished well back
in midfield, but will do a lot better
over a shade more distance—-nine or
10 furlongs.
Accustomed to the Welter scale
(they had 10.4 and 10.1 respectively
at their previous start) Tamasha (W.
Cook) and Johnny Zero appreciated
the absence of a stone or so from
their backs in the nine-furlongs Can-
terbury Park Handicap. Also doing
much better since switching to the
lighter scale, Royal Court, with
apprentice Selkrig up, tried to steal
the race and didn’t look likely to be
caught with a furlong to go. Tamasha
and Johnny Zero, however, bridged
the gap and finished in that order
ahead of the mare, margins of a
head separating the three.
Curiously, while three Welter per-
formers fought out the finish of the
Club Handicap, the Welter event was
won by Cape Neddick (R. Kerrigan),
who for some time has been striving
in vain to land a middle-distance
handicap event. Cape Neddick
downed Marshal Tito and Parallel. In
Mixed Stakes Darius (A. Mulley) and
Mortar (K. Birrer) were successful
at six furlongs; Casanova at 11 fur-
longs.
* * * *
A number of Oakleigh Plate and
Newmarket candidates took the oppor-
tunity to limber up with a run in the
six-furlongs J. L. Reilly Stakes at
Mentone on Saturday. Track and
weather conditions were near enough
to perfect, allowing Hindu Prince (H.
Badger) to return a sterling effort
under second topweight of 9.5.
Crowded out shortly after the start,
Hindu Prince was soon a long way
from the leaders, Double Trouble
setting a willing pace. He was pretty
well last round the turn, but a dazzling
burst of speed combined with an ex-
traordinarily lucky run along the rails
carried him through to beat Four
Freedoms by something more than
a length; a further head to Assam,
just shading Greensborough.
A beautifully developed four-year-
old horse, Hindu Prince, by Dhoti
from Rangi, unluckily supers leg
trouble that has made him an almost
perpetual headache to trainer F. W.
Hoysted. Assam is another of the
Dhoti breed and another good ’un
at that.
m .
Starting equal favorites at 5 to 2
in the 13-furlongs Moorabbin Handi-
cap, Real Guy and Stenelaus had the
finish to themselves. In front or
lying second all the way, Stenelaus
was set a fair task considering his
topweight plaster of 9st. Real Guy,
with J. Purtell aboard, was well back
in the ruck early; he was in a fair
deal of trouble, but got the breaks
at the right time, and, carrying only
7.12, came through to win with a
bit in hand.
For the 10-furlongs Chelsea Handi-
cap (three-year-olds) the books
opened Bold John at 7 to 4 favorite,
but punters were more interested in
the course specialist, Colin’s Pride
(L. King); at barrier-rise both were
3 to 1. Colin’s Pride fairly bolted
in, four lengths ahead of Dhutia and
Midhurst, with Bold John never
sighted. A son of Collingwood,
Colin’s Pride was not very long back
put up for sale, but fortunately, as it
now happens for his owners, bidding
failed to reach the reserve of 1000
guineas.
The bookies were rubbing their
hands in premature glee as the 33-to-l
chance San Joaness looked like sue-
“You tell him hes through—give him a cigar or
something
ceeding in his attempt to win the
first seven-furlongs Epsom Stakes
from go to whoa, but Lord Baden
(N. Powell), well backed at sevens,
proved a shade too strong over the
last little bit, despite conceding his
opponent half a stone. A visitor
from Adelaide and a Newmarket can-
didate, the Powerscourt mare Belle
Star was impressive in winning the
second division humping 9st. She
beat Senator and Purple Star.
The very successful F. W. Hoysted
stable missed out when the much-
boomed Pindus, starting at 5 to 4,
failed to fill a place in the Bass
Juvenile, which went to the 12-to-l
chance Lady Antonel (B. Eames), a
Portofino filly, too good for Royal
Myth and Lady Luba. Punters who
stayed to try to get square on the
last race, a Welter, went away sadder
if no wiser. Winner was Sir Archi-
bald at 100 to 1— a conservative
estimate of his chances on recent
form. A lady punter was reported
to have collected a bet of £lOOO to £5
—it would be a lady.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Collingwood Nursery: So Sweet,
1; Grey Nurse, 2; Pax Vobis, 3.
Berala Novice: Frescano, 1; Carib-
bean, 2; Lord Chancellor, 3. Ingle-
burn Juvenile:’St. Michael, 1; Helio-
fly, 2; Nessus, 3. February En-
courage: Orion, 1; Move. On, 2;
High Ideals, 3. Glenfield Handicap:
Farhad, 1; Gay Monarch, 2; Eari
Pentheus, 3. Warwick February
Handicap: Kureebi, 1; Debenture,
2; New Cashmere, 3. Sunnybrook
Welter; Ophir, 1; Burnley, 2; In-
darra, 3.
*,♦ * *
Indian cricketer Hazare has done
a lot with the bat apart from the
century in each innings—116 and 145
—with which he helped his side in
its good, though unsuccessful, effort
to hold off an innings defeat in the
fourth Test. On the 1946 Indian
tour of England Hazare in 33 innings
piled up 1344 runs, av. 49.77, the
tally including a knock of 244 against
Yorkshire. His share of it 288, he
holds with Gul Mohamed (319) the
world’s fourth-wicket record of 577.
Lindwall’s 7 for 38 in India’s
second innings is the best from an
averages viewpoint by any Australian
fast bowler. Australian batting for
the four Tests looks a bit lopsided:
Bradman (of course) in front, 658,
av. 164.5; Hassett, 322, av. 110.66;
Morris, 209, av. 52.25; Barnes, 139,
av. 46.33; Miller, 171, av. 42.75.
And 10 others have together scored
273.
Australia winning the fourth of
them by an innings and 16 runs
(Australia, 674; India, 381 and 277),
the Tests are now three Australia’s
way and a wet-weather draw. Off-
setting that, the Indians have played
fine bright cricket. They badly need
a couple of solid openers: in this
Test their starts were 2 for 6 in the
first innings and 2 for 0 in the second.
Sydney Cricket Ground wicket and
the look of the weather let W.A.
skipper K. Carmody down when,
winning the toss, he sent N.S.W. in.
The pitch rolled out fairly well, and
N.S.W. had 296 for 2 wickets and
added another 100 for the rest, Miller
whacking up 170, Donaldson 105, and
J. De Courcey, a promising young
player from Newcastle, 40 not out.
W.A., with Langdon putting up a
good knock, further justified its in-
clusion in the Sheffield Shield.
As well as being troubled by a
recurrent attack of Toshack’s knee,
N.S.W. cricket has also been suffer-
ing from a touch of Lindwall’s foot,
the fast bowler having been no-balled
in a Sheffield match, and movie
pictures more than supporting the
ump.; in fact, showing Lindwall’s
foot dragging-over 10 times out of 10.
Not suffering from bowler’s swelled-
head (which made at least one of
them, when checked, peevishly bowl
with hath feet behind the crease),
Lindwall has since very sensibly been
applying self-cure.
A first glance, at the cricket in
progress at Wentworth Park (Sydney)
on Sunday suggested a schoolboy
match; a second glance suggested that
some of the lads had tough dials even
for schoolboys; a third look and the
passer-by, if anything of a punter,
took a pew to watch Sydney jockeys
clean up a team of their Melbourne
confreres. The Melbournites weren’t
nearly as artistic with the willow as
with the whalebone. Anyway, they
had no answer for J. Thompson,
who’s miles ahead in the riding
premiership, and took 7 for J 6 in
the first innings; 5 for 38 in the
second. Sydney knocked up 153,
one-third of the total coming from
Delaney, who also did some damage
with the ball. Sydney on the first
innings.
* * * *
The Barbarians beat the Wallabies
9-6 at Cardiff, scoring three tries to
one; the victors a formidable side,
drawn from the cream of Rugby
Union talent in England, Ireland,
Scotland and Wales. The Wallabies’
next engagement is at Buckingham
Palace (non-competitive), after which
they come home via Canada and the
United States.
* S(C * *
At the further Olympic trials at
Sydney University oval Jamaican
Herb McKenley was presented with
a travelling bag by the A.A.A., with
the inscription “To Herb McKenley,
a sportsman and a gentleman,” Mc-
Kenley showing he was both by a
short and modest speech, in which he
said, among other graceful things, that
Australian athletes were “too good,”
and that he was in good condition
when he was beaten in Melbourne.
After which he won the 440 in smooth
and comfortable style in 48.2. Treloar
did the 100 metres in 10.9 —very re-
spectable, considering the wind was
blowing stfaight across the runners.
McKenley Vvas second, but didn’t look
like winning.
McKenley and Treloar are
built something on the line of
greyhounds; they have the taut,
conditioned look. Army sprinter
Clarrie Hayes, in contrast, looks
badly overweight. But he is cap-
able of flashes of astonishing
speed, which he might be able
to sustain with a few pounds off.
* * *
Jackie Wilson (9.3) outboxed
Frank Donnelly (9.7£) from round
one onwards at Leichhardt, but
committed the slight faux pas of
hitting the Donnelly while he
was down late in the fifth.
Donnelly on a foul.
$ $ $
Maorilander Bos Murphy,
according to correspondence
from England, is managed over
there “by a Jew named Burns”
—Scotland for ever!—who has
the right connections to get
Bos the right fights. And Bos’s
own good right and left are doing
the rest: so far, two’ fights for two
wins. The second of them —a points
victory over Vince Hawkins—made
Bos Empire middleweight champ., but
in it he did in his ankle and will be
hors de combat for a while.
* * * *
Always a neat scrapper of the
sturdy-build variety, A 1 Moran (10.74)
had too much craft for Clem Sands
(10.7£) in their Melbourne Stadium
encounter. Clem put all he had into
it in the last round, and Al, while
well ahead on points, had to rise,
a bit battered, from the canvas to
collect the decision.


i ;
m
m
ifee
•Roc
xA 10
I™ wolW‘ s
Ta "M V.^
tw*" 4s9^^
?>«“ v^eW* 1 ' 55 S a*B> 0 ”” 4 ’ .»S°'
feet
pea* 1
slat
bac^ oU^ ut in ,' aet M vjottt
sfeo* s c o\out
sfeo
i\M
aoi
fee
ifee
stft a ’
.tieSl
oi
sfeoes
feota
C\at^ s -
sl^ e ’
1vIoJ«
ifee
act
uy
Mitre V
Lon a
ton 1
ion
tf.l
Public Notice.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF
PROPRIETORS.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual
General Meeting of the Proprietors of
the Company will be held at the Confer-
ence Room, 7th floor, Grand United Order
of Oddfellows Building, 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, on Thursday, February
26, 1948, at 12 noon.
BUSINESS:
1. To receive the Report of the Directors
for the past year and authorise the
payment of a dividend for the half-
year ended 31st December, 1947.
2. To elect two Directors in the place
of Ottomar George Vickery, Esq., and
Clifford Gordon Crane, Esq., who • re-
tire and who have given the requisite
notice that they are candidates for
re-election, for which they arc eligible.
3. To appoint two Auditor's in the place
of Messrs. Robert William Nelson,
F.C.A. (Aust.), and Harrie Hamilton
Stitt, F.C.A. (Aust.), who reMre and
who have given the requisite notice
that they are candidates for re-appcnit-
ment, for which they are eligible.
4. To transact such other business as
may be properly brought forward.
Candidates for the Directorship are re-
quired to give notice of their candidature,
in writing, to the undersigned, not later
than Wednesday, February 11, 1948.
The Transfer Book of the Company will
be closed from the 12th to the 26th
February, 1948, both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
J. B. ROBINSON, Secretary.
Company’s Head Office,
Haymarket, Sydney, Jan. 22, 1948.
Pelmanism
For the scientific
development of
Mind, Memory and Personality.
The following letter has a special
significance for those who wish to
face life vigorously and intelligently:
16 th November, 1947.
New lines of thought, etc., opened
up by the first four lessons have
enabled me to perceive and put into
being a project which has taken every
minute of my spare time for the last
four months or so. I have no hesi-
tation in saying that without Pel-
manism I would never have seen such
an opening, let alone put it into suc-
cessful operation. (R 1649). — Grazier.
The seeing and using of oppor-
tunity is one of the six means
to the purposeful use of our
powers elaborated in the Pelman
Course.
The writer of the letter is an ex-
service man thirty-four years of
age. The letter is one of hun-
dreds of appreciative letters
which the Pelman Institute re-
ceived from service men and
civilians in 1947 alone.
The really individual and per-
sonal training service given
through Pelmanism is fully des-
cribed in “The Efficient Mind,”
copies of which are posted free
on application to the P elman
Institute for the Scientific Train-
ing of Mind, Memory and Person-
ality, 3 Gloucester House, 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the approval
of the Reserve Bank, has made arrange-
ments to meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New Zealand to
enrol for the Pelman Course of Training
without delay. Write in the first in-
stance to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
r i
[ TO The Pelman Institute,
| 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders (
£ lane, Melbourne.
I Please send me, post-free, a copy I
| of “The Efficient Mind.” I
I I
I NAME
ADDRESS
[ 198
I
DEVALUATION OF THE FRANC.
The official devaluation of the
franc last week has raised a
number of questions and' fears.
It first of all puts the authority
and stability of the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund of
which Australia is a member —
in doubt, and hence all inter-
national economic authority and
co-operative ability. It also raises
the question of whether other
countries will be forced to fol-
low suit, for reasons of compe-
tition in trade and of their own
currency stability. Finally, if
other! countries —such as Britain
and its Dominions—da have to
put a lower value on their
currency in terms of dollars, it
will mean a higher price for
gold and, more gradually, a
higher paper-currency price, in
Australia and elsewhere, for
commodities generally.
The franc has taken a big
step down the scale. After the
expulsion of the German occu-
pying forces in 1945 the num-
ber of francs officially ex-
changeable for a pound ster-
ling was temporarily fixed at
200. Then, just before its entry
as a member of the International
Monetary Fund, France again
reduced the value of its cur-
rency, this time to 480 francs
to the English pound. This com-
pared with slightly more than
25 francs to the £ before 1914
—the gold-standard era, when
European currencies were gener-
ally stable and the influence of
the Bank of England and the
London money market on world
affairs was tremendous.
Poincare’s 1928 revaluation
of the franc after its ups and
downs following the 1914-18
war was 124 to the pound. This
revaluation of the franc at the
time led many people to believe,
with some justice, that it put
Britain at a great disadvantage
in competing in trade with
France, for in 1925 Britain had
returned to the gold standard,
paying 85s. an ounce for gold,
the same as in 1914. But the
apparent prosperity of France
that went on even into the de-
pression was partly due to the
rebuilding of the northern areas
devastated by war, and in the
mid-1930’s France was again in
economic trouble, especially
after Blum’s Popular Front
Government took charge and
the 40-hour week was intro-
duced.
864 to the £ Sterling
The exchange rate of 480
francs to the £ was thought to
be too flattering to th.e French
currency when it was introduced
in December, 1945, and events
soon proved this to be the case.
Last year tourists who smuggled
sterling notes into France were
getting 700 to 900 francs for
pounds on the blackmarket.
Heavy penalties were then im-
posed on illegal traffickers in
currency —rabout the time the
Max Intrator cases arose—and
blackmarketeers became dis-
posed to offer fewer francs in
exchange for pounds and dol-
lars, the difference between the
old and the new “black” rates
being regarded as a kind of in-
surance premium to cover the
additional risks involved.
Frenchmen coming to England
had about as much difficulty in
getting sterling as English or
Australian tourists have in get-
ting dollars.
Last week the French Schu-
man Government fixed the
Paris-London rate at 864 francs
to the £ sterling, which is some-
thing like the blackmarket rate
of last year.
The French Government has
acted independently of the In-
ternational Monetary Fund, of
which it is a member. Managers
of the fund have so far refused
to approve of the devaluation.
which Camille Gutt, managing
director, says is “discrimin-
atory.” For a big member of
an international economic or-
ganisation to defy the rules, even
in a case of urgency, is a rather
startling development. British
finance experts consulted with
the French a week or more in
advance of official action, and
they unavailingly suggested alter-
natives ; but the move never
had any official approval of the
International Monetary Fund.
The “Free” Market
The cheaper franc will place
additional strain on sterling, but
the main danger in this respect
will come from the proposal—
hotly contested—to establish a
“You Were advertising for a partner. Could you show
me your credentials ?”
free market for gold and cur-
rency in France, designed to
bring to light gold, sterling and
dollar hoards concealed. It is
felt that sterling, whatever the
restrictions, will flow from
Britain and other countries
—to France at a rate which
will give United States im-
porters of British goods an
opportunity of buying pounds
at a figure below the official rate
of $4.02, with a consequent loss
of dollars to the Empire dollar
pool. The same trouble may
arise in respect of conversion of
Scandinavian and South Ameri-
can currencies into sterling.
France may become, in effect,
an “official” international black-
market for otherwise “con-
trolled” currencies, and Britain
may find that her exports to
hard-currency countries are
being paid (through France) in
sterling that Britain would
rather not see repatriated during
the present dollar stringency.
Except for these actual opera-
tions in currency .and securities,
it is doubtful whether Britain,
for the time being, will be ex-
posed to disadvantages as great
as is commonly supposed. The
world is still a seller’s market,
and it is not very difficult for
Britain to dispose of whatever
production she has for sale at
a satisfactory price. True, under
competitive conditions, the
country whose currency is de-
valued to the greatest extent, in
comparison with its internal
purchasing power, has a big
trading advantage compared
with other export countries;
but that kind of competition is
not yet very evident, and the
buying-power of the franc in-
ternally has been sliding for
months past.
If British currencies are kept
at their old relationship with
the dollar it will be harder for
French people to buy Australian
wool and British manufactures
than it has been. Still, the rest
of the world may be able to
take all Empire surplus produc-
tion, whether rural or factory,
and the blow to our trade may
not be a hard one. Britain is
no doubt concerned about the
long-term effect of currency de-
valuation, especially if it should
become competitive through in-
ability of European countries to
keep v their economic and in-
dustrial houses in order. As
time goes by production
momentum . should be re-
gained in various countries, and
the “economics of scarcity” in
world markets may disappear ;
in such a case progressive cur-
rency devaluation to bolster-up
inadequate output per man-
hour (which indicates high in-
ternal production costs) would
mean that pre-war chaos in
world trading would return,
possibly on a worse scale than
ever. Britain would be particu-
larly vulnerable because of her
dependence upon other countries
for raw materials, even food
essentials. France does not have
to import nearly as much food
as Britain, but is dependent
upon imports for wool, cotton,
petroleum, metals, etc.
In order even to maintain the
franc at its present depreciated
level, France will need a politi-
cal, industrial and economic
renaissance. It is being assailed
by Communist treachery inspired
by the Soviet, which wants to
dominate all Europe and re-
gards the political downfall of
France as essential to its plans.
Economic stability is for this
reason made all the more diffi-
cult in a country the politics of
which are not at any time con-
ducive to financial and industrial
steadiness. If costs continue to
rise under Communist trade-
union pressure and the level of
production falls even the
peasants are blamed by some for
not producing as much food as
is within their power —then the
time is not far away when the
franc’s internal buying-power
will be below its new fixed ex-
change value.
London-Australia Exchange
Britain will make a determined
attempt to hold sterling. But —
if Britain follows France in de-
valuing its currency there will be
a rise in the London price of
gold and an increase in the ster-
ling cost of British imports, which
will mean a higher charge on the
Exchequer for subsidies, ex-
ternal interest payments, etc.,
and a rise in the cost of living
of the British taxpayer —he
being dependent to a great de-
gree upon imported food and
raw materials.
If the' Australian pound
remained fixed at its pre-
sent rate of £125 Australian to
£lOO sterling we would find that
the cost of imports from Britain
would have a tendency to rise
in keeping with Britain’s rising
costs. Already the hgh cost of
British imports such as
machinery—is having an adverse
effect upon industrial rehabilita-
tion in Australia, while ex-
porters of land products are re-
ceiving an unusually inflated in-
come. It is probable, should
Britain devalue its currency,
that Australia would, be forced
to bring its currency to par with
sterling, and in such a case the
price of gold in Australia might
not rise at all, depending on
whether the hardening of our
pound against sterling was more
or less than sterling’s weaken-
ing by comparison with the dol-
lar.
The strong London market
for Broken Hill silver-lead shares
is based primarily on the big
demand in the U.S.A. for base
metals, lead especially, and
secondly upon the possible
weakening of sterling in relation
to the dollar. The strengthening
in Barrier shares began around
the end of 1947, and there was
a sharp rise just before the news
about the French currency de-
valuation broke. North scrip
has risen over 14s. a share in
Australia since ’Changes closed
for 1947. Should sterling drop
20 p.c. in relation to the dollar,
and Australian currency come to
par with sterling, there might be
some reaction in Barriers on the
Australian market, as there
would be a tendency for the old
sterling price to become the new
Australian figure. London
prices have been actually
stronger than Australian quotes,
and this difference could pro-
vide a cushioning effect in any
Australian readjustment. And
actual devaluation of sterling
might, of course, give a further
stimulus to London market sup-
port for enterprises exporting
to the dollar area.


jnfe
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Writs or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7A, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. F. Pullen, Public Trustee.
featuring
classic roles
m
in
'•n,
»Unn
Wtj
%
t
Op
Marion Johns
warn
m
Portraying and recreating the live*
of famous people—Joan of Arc—
Socrates Shakespeare Gov.
Macquarie—Sir Henry Parkes—
Lincoln—Roosevelt and Churchill
—in enthralling dramatic episodes.
John Cozabon
Alfred B risf owe
Every FRIDAY i
7.45 p.m, on 68 Stations
NEW SOUTH WALES.
9AV 2^ c (7 - 30 2CA, 2LF, 2LT, 2MG, 2PK, 2AD,
2AY, 2BH (7.15 p.m.), 2BS, 2DU, 2GF 2GN 2KM 2MO
2MW, 2QN, 2RG, 2TM, 2WG, 2KO (9.15 p.m!), 2CK, 2GZ
(9.30 p.m.), 2KA (9,30 p.m.), 2LM (9.30 p.m,, Sun.), 2NZ
V p.m.).
VICTORIA.
3AW, 3CY, 3BA, 380, 3GL, 3MA, 3SR (9.15 p.m.), SUL
(9.15 p.m.), 3YB (9.30 p.m.), 3SH, 3HA, 3TR.
QUEENSLAND.
4BH, 4BU, 4CA, 4GY, 4MK, 4TO, 4VL, 4AY, 4WK 4ZR
FH ) ( fc M ° n,) ’« 4M ? (9J5 p - m ” Mon - ) ’ 4RO Sas p m.\
rn.), 4ir (9 p.m., Sun.).
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
SDN (7.15 p.m.), SRM (7.15 p.m.).
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Sr’ fllZ 6A3V ?' 6PM (US P- m -’ Sat -)» 6GE (6.45 p.m.),
6KG (6.45 p.m.). r ’
TASMANIA.
7HO, 7AD, 7BU, 7DY, 7LA (8.45 p.m.), 70T.
/•
/a COMPLETE RANGE OF
1 LAWTON
lih
Fork a Trucks
s*:
imm-
■
mi
mn
j^D
also . .
LAWTRAC
INDUSTRIAL
HAULAGE UNITS
LAWTON Fork Lift Trucks and Industrial
Haulage Units are Australian made, especi-
ally for Australian conditions, thus you are
assured of complete and thorough service
from the LAWTON Materials Handling Ex-
perts. Write, Phone or Call for Details.
LAWTON
INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS LIMITED
Distributors for J. A. LAWTON & SONS. LIMITED, ADELAIDE
on
r
r
r
Sydney:
58 Margaret St.
B 4373
Melbourne;
422 Collins St.
MU 1192
Adelaide:
54 North Terrace
C. 3054
Money and Work
The billowing balloon of in-
flated money-holdings of the
people is one of the factors
dragging prices higher in spite
of Federal controls. But the
Federal Government has en-
couraged the creation of this
monetary excess, which will
grow in 1948 because of higher
wages, the shorter working week
and operation of the brand of
“full-employment” that Chifley
and Co. favor. Higher prices
for wool and wheat will add to
it.
Compared with the last pre-
war year, spending-power in
control of the Australian people
grew as follows up to June 30
last:
v June, June,
1939. 1947.
£m. £m.
Notes in hands of public 33 182
Deposits of public with
Commonwealth Bank
and all trading banks* 334 698
All savings-banks deposits 246 661
Total .. 613 1541
* Excluding deposits of Governments,
other banks and savings banks.
In order to maintain the buying-
power of this money we must
build up a greater pool of goods
and services. In his last report
the governor of the Common-
wealth Bank said:
The important thing is clearly to
increase production, in terms of quan-
tities of goods, more than incomes
are increased. This means, broadly,
that the problem is not only, or per-
haps even mainly, one of greater
aggregate production, but also of
greater production per man-hour.
With the 40-hour week now
operating, and strikes arising
out of it already, 1948 is off to
a bad start from the point of
view either of “aggregate pro-
duction” or “production per
man-hour.” And let no one be
deluded into thinking that the
inflationary effects of production
deficiencies coupled with exces-
sive money can be offset always
by means of Federal price-con-
trols. If monetary and costs in-
flation continue under the mask
of price-control, one day there
will have to be open sterilisa-
tion of a large part of the
people’s spending-power. In
Soviet Russia, where “controls”
abound, savings have been cut
to a fraction by revaluing the
rouble. Price-control has failed
in France, and the franc has
sunk to 864 to the pound sterl-
ing. We don’t want the Aus-
tralian £ to be dealt with in
either way.
Timber imports, mainly
Oregon, into Maoriland and pro-
duction from M.L.’s own mills
have boosted supplies to peak
levels for a decade at least, but
housing progress is still strug-
gling against a chain of bottle-
necks. Oregon shipments flooded
in under 1947 dollar licences at
double 1946 volume, and yards
haven’t been so full for a long
time, if ever; but Maorilanders
don’t know how long these
stocks will have to last. Native
timber coming from the mills
dripping wet has plenty of time
to dry - out while hold - ups
through scarcity of flooring,
roofing, wallboards, ironmon-
gery, bricks, joinery, drain and
water-pipes, baths and sanitary-
fittings halt progress. There is a
time-lag of nearly a year between
applications for timber and
arrival of supplies, and after that
come the bottlenecks. Private
enterprise is feeling the pinch
most because that is where ex-
pansion is. State housing has
slipped a long way below 1940
level, when the Government
built 3624 homes, against 2862
private. Now private outnumber
State two to one, and the swing
will go further. Average costs
have reached £l6OO a house,
against £lOOO seven years ago,
and lower pre-war. Prices are
a bigger brake on M.L.’s Gov-
ernment than on other Maori-
landers, because it builds to let;
they build for themselves, and
need homes —badly,
* * * *
In London it is becoming
generally regarded that Britain,
under the Attlee Government,
dived into the purchase of capi-
tal goods too heavily during the
critical period when dollars were
running out. The “Spectator”
says the P.M.’s remark at the
dollar post-mortem, “Maybe the
Government has tried to do too
much,” has been his most preg-
nant utterance to date. Stafford
Cripps has since cut the nation’s
capital expenditure. The trouble
with large-scale capital outlay is
that, if the machinery, etc.,
being set up is made at home, it
takes men and materials away
from the immediate production
of living essentials, even if
broadening the way for their
future production ; if the plant
is obtained from a hard-currency
country abroad it eats into the
reserves of that currency at a
rapid rate. Even in the first case
an extra demand is brought to
bear on the dollar reserve be-
cause of the present reduced
output of consumer goods at
home. There needs to be a
happy medium, of course, in
dividing national labor and
material resources and national
dollar reserves between capital
and consumer requirements. A
common error is to underesti-
mate the time within which capi-
tal outlay will start to be repro-
ductive of consumer goods. In-
vestors in new Australian manu-
facturing concerns and metal
mines will appreciate the point
of this.
* * * *
Both in New York and Lon-
don there is a tendency towards
dearer money, in New York for
call-money and short-term loans,
in London for longer-term
issues. The Commonwealth’s
£12,870,000 sterling cash and
conversion operation soon to be
offered in London will be
issued at £9B 10s., interest 3 p.c.,
term 15-17 years. So far the
Commonwealth Government has
shown no sign of departing
from its internal cheap-money
policy; it is able to get away
with it partly because of its en-
forced borrowings from the
banking system and the trading
banks, which still leaves enor-
mous investing- and spending-
power in the hands of the pub-
lic, even if companies are
drained of savings by price-con-
trol and taxes. Low interest
rates are forcing life-assurance
offices and trustee companies to
buy shares in industrial con-
cerns in order to obtain a higher
return on investments. It was
reported recently that life
offices took up over 23,000
shares (mostly preference) in an
issue of £lBO,OOO by Kelvinator
Australia, Ltd. During 1948,
as a result of the Common-
wealth Bank directive on credit
policy and the fact that post-
war factory reconstruction is
getting under way, many new
share issues are likely to be made
by Australian public companies,
and, though new scrip will prob-
ably carry a premium where old
scrip is above par in the share-
market, the ultimate effect may
be an absorption of surplus in-
vestible funds in the hands of
the public and a hardening of
interest rates.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Horseless Horseman”: I’ve been
about the bush all my life, yet only last
spring I came to know the beautiful
mistletoe-bird, mainly because the lus-
trous, blue-black-coated and scarlet-
breasted flier —his missus is a duller
dresser —is extremely small, a fast flier
and usually a frequenter of high tree-
tops, Now I know his pretty warbling
song I’m always drawn to this shapely
creature, which is unsurpassed for beauty
and coloration. However, it is as an
architect that I rate the mistletoe-bird a
genius. His pear-shaped nest, with a Hin.-
long slit entrance suspended under a
leafy bough, is a work of art so craftily
woven together with matted substances
and spiders’ webs that it baffles descrip-
tion. The marvel to me is how the young
couples of the clan learn to build such
gems of Nature.
* * * *
“Bo”: From the bridge across the
creek the red road sloped for quarter of
a mile up to the township, and the horse
drawing the sulky was making heavy go-
ing. The load included four bags of
potatoes and two of swedes, loose pump-
kins, a bag of rabbitskins, a plough-share
and a can of cream. Perched on top of
two bags of spuds on the seat was 13st.
Sam Drayton, in from his sqjall block a
few miles out of town. Drayton swatted
flies and cursed the nag’s dilatoriness all
the way up the hill. An hour or so later
a lounger outside the Commercial noticed
Drayton walking down the hill beside the
now-empty sulky. “What —y’ get corns
from that hardwood seat on y’r ride in,
Sam?” he called out. “Aw, no,” Dray-
ton replied in his deliberate tones. “But
me horse looked a bit knocked up an’ I
thought I’d give 'him a spell from me
weight till I git over the bridge.”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Throwing the boomerang
is tricky, though some whites, starting
young, get it down to a fine art. But
catching the wooden sickle as it comes
humming back is a different matter, and
although white hands have been gashed
and an occasional finger broken by inept
snatching, the abo. does it with impunity.
His trick is to grab at the boomerang just
as it goes past, avoiding a heavy blow,
and meeting merely With the “drag.”
The impact of a returning boomerang is
recorded on the chimney of my bush
humpy, where 26-gauge flat iron was
stabbed through as though with a toma-
hawk,
“Gravelsnatcher”: The marvel of
Snowflake’s boomerang (B. 31/12/’47)
was not that it returned for one man but
that it didn’t return for all. Not one in
10 will return, and when one does it is
generally due to some accident in the
design. Such a boomerang can be
thrown, to return, by anyone. Kylie, the
real fighting boomerang, isn’t intended to
return. Usually made with more curve
than the others, it rises three or four feet,
skims the ground and rises again, repeat-
ing the performance until its force is
spent or its target decapitated. It’s a
deadly weapon and its use requires great
skill.
* * * *
“Zake”; Whenever there arises the
question of the hypnotic power of eyes
the red-bellied one and his fellow-
slitherers are invariably regarded as the
exclusive holders of patent rights to this
characteristic. Yet the fox uses a similar
gift with even greater efficiency. But
whereas the snake uses daylight lamps on
his victims, the luminosity of the fox’s
orbs are used for mesmeric purposes only
at night. That is why the domestic dog is
chary of attacking the cunning one after
dark. That Brer uses the same power
when helping himself to a poultry dinner
is evident by the fact that by the time the
squawk of alarm comes from the fowl-
yard the sharp-nosed gent, is contemplat-
ing which end of the course he’ll start on
first —it% only when the glowing eyes are
removed that the feathered matrons on
the perches snap out of the trance that
held them all while the fox silently
selected his victim.
* * * *
“Melbn”: In a remote corner Mel-
bourne National Gallery has a huge can-
vas depicting a nursing mother using
a simple stratagem to sustain her aged
father, a political offender, who is being
starved to death behind the bars of some
gloomy European prison. Far worse
paintings hang in more prominent posi-
tions, so I take it that its subject-matter
brought about its unfavorable possie.
“You forgot your soap , dear.”
However, something similar has been
happening at the Melbourne Zoo in the
animal kingdom. A citizen found two
unfledged kookaburras on a country
road and sent them to the institution.
They almost certainly would have died
if two wild kookas hadn’t visited them
three or four times daily and fed them
through the wire-netting of their cage.
* * =i= *
“Laetitia”: I’ve fought too many mid-
night battles against saurian sneakthieves
in my Torres Strait hen-roosts to accept
“Waarom’s” contention (B. 14/1/’4B) that
the goanna is neither a nocturnal feeder
nor a poultry addict. I’ve come upon a
raiding party of three old-men goes, each
member of which was standing on his
hind legs in an endeavor to ffrag from the
perch his selected victim, and chewing
the birds’ tail-feathers in the process, a
probable cause for somewhat obscenely
■ appearing poultry posteriors in N.Q.
fowlruns.
Jim O’Keeffe: I accept the assur-
ance of “Waarom” and Fleay that
goannas don’t ravage suburban hen-roosts
by night, but that doesn’t whitewash the
“piana,” for, though he has his uses as a
scavenger, he’s a very dangerous raider.
The insects goannas consume, compared
with the myriads eaten by birds, are as
a sardine’s gargle is to the Pacific Ocean,
and the big lizards murder baby birds in
thousands. Grass-nesting birds and those
that live in burrows are the chief
sufferers —even those nesting in trees are
far from safe, and without this air de-
fence of ours I’d wager that insects would
make the continent untenable in a
month. Preserve the insect-eating lizards!
by all means, but goanna, whether he be
sand or tree type, one of the undersized
squirts near “Waarom’s” Melbourne, or
one of the great six-footers of Queens-
land’s north, is a pest.
* * * *
“Canine”: “Plop’s” bulldog (B.
21 /1 / ’4B) sounds very true to form, for,
belying their dials, they are about the
steadiest and most affectionate of all dogs.
In a house, when food is being prepared,
they dribble profusely, and this, com-
bined with the pitiful look they achieve
with their eyesi and a good-natured
owner, contributes a lot to the genial
plumpness of the breed. A friend had
one who used to sit on a kitchen chair
and create spectacular dribbles which
reached to the floor every time the re-
frigerator door was opened. They can
also turn on a good effort at snoring,
and this same specimen was once mis-
taken by a new next-door neighbor as
being a metho-logged tramp asleep in the
yard. Although he lived for 11 years, he
only once became peeved with a human
being—the milkman who foolishly dis-
turbed his slumber by clanging a milk-
can on the cement-path outside his ken-
nel. Bully rose, stumped outside and
barked once, then backed into his ken-
nel to pick up the last dream. As bull-
dogs go off somewhat like a three-inch
mortar, my friend discovered on awak-
ing a four-gallon can of milk on the path
and a small fragment of blue-serge
trouser on the top of a three-foot picket
gate.
* * * *
“Flight”: When will your city bushmen
realise that the kookaburra is not Aus-
tralia’s national bird? He belongs to the
coastal fringe on the eastern side only,
accidentally turning up in W.A. I was
having tucker once on the Alice River
(C.Q.) —and that’s not far into the in-
terior —when k ’burra flew, perched on
a bough high in the tree I’d hitched my
mare to and burst into his giggling.
The mare was bred in that country, and
used to emus, turkeys, brolgas, wagtails,
even top-knot pigeons, but that cackler
was too much. I caught her seven miles
up the track.
* * * *
“Kurilla”: Apart from the fact that a
snake is at least seven feet long when
alive and first seen, and only four or five
when dead, I take off my lid to his little
tricks of deception, practised in an effort
to escape the cove with a waddy. 1 chased
a longish bloke round a poultry-farm a
few days ago, and instead of sticking to
the ground he lifted his head and shot
over the low branches of a small hedge.
I had to toss up to decide which way he’d
gone, and by the time I’d made sure that
he wasn’t still in the hedge my cobber,
on his way back from dinner, spotted him
20 yards away and travelling fast. His
undoing came when he attempted to
escape into a hole not big enough to hold
him, and had to back-pedal. He didn’t
have time to enlarge the hole before the
waddy descended ; while on the subject
can any Councillor tell me how luckier
snakes do enlarge a hole?
* * * *
“Narrin”: The other day I had a look
'at some U.S. army equipment. Item one
\yas an automatic carbine, a light affair,
.30-calibre and comparable in range and
general performance to the old .32-20
Winchester. It had a plain blade fore-
sight and a tiny aperture rearsight. I
tried to sight the carbine on a grey euro
standing up against a dead-grey back-
ground of bindi-eye at 150 yards, but
before I found the beast he had tired of
holding the pose, and disappeared. Even
if he had stayed I doubt if I could have
picked out a definite portion of his an-
atomy with those sights. Item two was a
.45-calibre tommy-gun. This gadget,
made of pressed metal like a kid’s airgun,
was obviously designed for spraying
bullets round at short range. But it, too,
had the little-ring backsight. Why in
the name of William Tell should two
weapons made for short distance have
sights that, at their best, are suited only
for long-range, deliberate shooting?
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Any Councillor know a
swifter-flowing river in Australia than the
Cotter? In the early days it was called
the “wicked” river—fast and deceptive. In
places where it appears that the water is
a foot deep it is actually anything up to
10ft., and because of this deception
children have been drowned. Where
the Cotter joins the Murrumbidgee, just
below a narrow bridge across the latter,
you can see the clear water of the Cotter
flowing alongside the muddy water of the
’Bidgee for several hundred yards be-
fore they mix.
* * * *
“Prop”: Years ago Beltana Station, in
northern S.A., had a visit from the then
Governor of the State. Despite numerous
escapes to the western sandhills and to
the dead-finish creeks under Mt. Decep-
tion, most of the run’s population was
made thoroughly miserable by a period
of spit-and-polish that embraced every-
thing from the boss’s buggy to the station
boongs. A flagpole was run up, halyards
rigged and' a flag obtained somehow.
Then, when his Ex. and party arrived,
the flag stuck half-way to the masthead,
and the vice-regal party landed on Beltana
soil with their hats held reverently in
their hands.
* * * ♦
“Chevroford”: The apparition of a
brace of pelicans cruising in the waters of
Port Phillip off Altona caused enormous
surprise in that bayside suburb and even
frightened the children. The dailies
were deluged with speculations as to
where they came from, some ornitho-
logists claiming that they must have
migrated from the River Murray.
Another stated that the breeding-
ground for the birds is at Lake Coran-
gamite, 75 air-miles from Altona, and the
lake, being saltier than the sea and, like
Melbourne’s markets, fishless, the parent
birds make daily trips to Lake Colac for
their offsprings’ seafood. The creatures
more probably came from the mudbanks
of the Yarra hard by the Newtown power-
house and only about five air-miles from
Altona., Anybody passing down the river
can see them fishing there daily. They
nest in remote islands in Bass Strait.
* * * *
“Plip”; The phenomenon had been
a staple item in Bombina’s conversation
for months before, in a moment that he’s
regretted ever since, the editor of the
“Chronicle” made a feature of it:
LOCAL MAN A THOUGHT-READER.
Mr. Bertram Oxem, proprietor of the
Royal, has, until discovered by _ a
“Chronicle” reporter, been quietly using
practical thought-reading. It is seen in
the case of Mr. A. Jubb, who lives five ,
miles from the hotel, and has no phone,
hence no trick is employed. His every
thought is interpreted correctly by Mr.
Oxem Mr. Oxem has frequently been
heard to say, for instance: “In a few
moments Mr. Jubb will come in, bringing
a friend with him. Mr. Jubb will take
beer —his friend whisky.” And at the
said time, Mr. Jubb will enter with a
friend, and will thank the publican for
having what they wanted ready. Some
harmless wagers have taken place each
afternoon, but Mr. Oxem’s thought-reading
proves ever successful.
It was not learned until some weeks
later that these “amazing powers” found
their main force in a heliograph which
Alf and Bert had collared from Disposals
for old-times’ sake, both being sigs, in
the same outfit the time before last. Alf
had it trained from his farm on to the
side window of the Royal, and while his
sending was a bit slower than it used to
be it was good enough for Bert to read
“Two beers and a shandy at 3.15.”
* * * *
“Lower Tops!” on the Brier Holme:
This fine British barque—a regular trader
to Hobart —crashed ashore in the identical bay
that the Alphild went west in (B. 14/1/’4B)
just three years before. First intimation of
her loss was wreckage found by fishermen near
Port Davey, and two search-parties of West
Coast bushmen were dispatched to look for
survivors in the uninhabited mountainous coast,
and although a body and articles were found,
establishing beyond question the vessel’s fate,
both parties returned to Hobart to report they
bad seen no sign of the wreck or of survivors.
However, three weeks after the second party
had returned, and more than 100 days after
the wreck, the fishing-boat Gift arrived in
the Derwent with Hans Larsen, a survivor of
the Brier Holme. Such a stir did the arrival
of this black-bearded Norwegian cause that
hard things were said about the search-parties,
and harder things were whispered about Larsen,
who was accused of “lying low” and being
in collusion with fishermen looting the barque’s
cargo. An inquiry subsequently exonerated
Larsen, who, it found, owed his life to the
fact the vessel carried general cargo. After
several attempts to find habitation on that
coast—the roughest in the Commonwealth—he
tried to build a raft. Once the search-parties
passed within 300 yards of him. Their failure
to find the survivor was attributed merely to
a “series of curious circumstances and the
wildness of the Port Davey coast.”
SANDHILLS.
This sand-drift changes shape always;
The sliding dune disbands,
Creeps, and cascades. It even plays
Thin music, . and on certain days
One hears the talking sand
Whose round-rumped hummocks hold that dead
And now indifferent earth
From whence the living pulse has fled,
Where now the desert lands lie red
And no green thing comes forth.
Fair robes of grass are no more wrought,
They feed no bush or tree;
Abandoned to the north wind’s sport
The hot sands skirmish in a sort
Of strange corroboree.
The whirlwind cores take shape and sway
And each might be the ghost
Of those that had their ageless day,
Wandered and hunted, went away
And here return, almost
To where the furry bush-folk feed
No longer, nor is heard
The long cool lisp of leaf or reed.
Rustle of branch or ripening seed,
Nor any piping bird.
Gone are the grass-tree and the scrub,
The world their forbears knew;
The aching heat-waves shake and throb
Where are no honey-bees to rob,
Nor screams a cockatoo.
Before the invader overthrew
And tore their worlds apart
Those dark men roamed the land they knew;
Lived, age on age, beneath its blue
But never broke its heart.
Oh, skies, red dusk with Mallee dust,
Oh, earth, once wild and free,
We it is have betrayed the tiust,
Killed the soil’s soul in greed’s cold lust—
We are the enemy!
Eroded, spent, beneath the hot
Heaven’s uncaring spell,
Too desiccated even to rot—
What age and sun and wind could not
Do, we have done well.
Its epitaph the wild air knows,
It is written in the sand, *
As round the dunes the northerly throws
The unremembered dust of those
Who once possessed the land.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Chuck”: Simon lived on his own out
on the head of Dingo Creek. Riding
through that way, Dan overtook him as
he neared his shack with a couple of
rabbits swinging from his saddle. “Me
dog-tucker,” Simon explained. “If y’
wait till I feed ’em, I’ll ride down t’ the
lefthand branch with y’.” Deftly he
slipped the fur from the bunnies, cut the
carcasses in half, and presented the bits
to his four dogs. Swallowing his own in
record time, a big spotted hound dived
on his neighbor’s portion. There was a
howl of delight from Simon. “Ha —smart,
ain’t y’?” he chuckled. “Well, y’ can’t
git away with it, see? Now, how d’ y’
like it?” He tossed the rabbit back to
its rightful owner and waited. Presently
there was another belligerent rush, and
the spotted dog collected from the little
tyke on the other side. “Lookin’ for a
proper kick on the tail, are y’?” chortled
Simon, again retrieving the prize. “Here,
Darkie.” “Why don’t you tie the big one
up?” asked Dan, interested. “What, an’
spoil the fun?” Simon protested.
“Gripes, no ; only satisfaction a bloke
gits is takin’ it back orf the greedy cow.”
lie made another dive at the big dog.
That ain’t yours,” he bellowed, belting
the spotted one over the ear. “Give it
back, Chif ; go on, give it back t’ pore ol’
Mug.”
♦ * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Former inhabi-
tants of Bruthen (Vic.), that old-world
township on the Tambo River flats and
on the road to Omeo, are meeting to dis-
cuss funny incidents in the place’s history
for the “Back to Bruthen” celebrations
next Easter. During my only stay there-
in the September school-holidays, 1923 —
the clanging of a prehistoric fire-bell one
morning brought the locals out of the
bush to the Bruthen Inn. On the pre-
vious day, it appeared, the policeman
had ridden north through the mountains
to arrest some fellow in a hut, and he had
not returned. According to everyone,
not only had the trooper been foully mur-
dered but his assailant had taken to the
bush. With armed men in all sorts of
garb saddling up horses in the township’s
main street, it looked as though the
Kellys were at it again. An hour after
the last party had left the trooper arrived
unconcerned with the,captive; he had to
You've been robbed, Mum; there ain't two ton here."
go on to another, hut, so he had returned
by a longer route. It was days before the
last search-party came back, and only
men for want of tucker.
*,* * *
f* : Who told “Horseless Horse-
man (B. 14/1/’4B) that a wedge-tailed
ea Sj 6 cannot take off with a talon in a
rabbit-trap? Eagles certainly can’t
leave level ground so handicapped, but if
tnere is a rock, ant-hill or anything like a
mound, the bird will climb it and fly off
quite easily. We lost many traps on the
South Coast of N.S.W. because the wedge-
tails found no difficulty in pulling the
peg from the ground and flying off with
the lot.
“Heresone”: I support “M.U.R.’s”
defence of the wedgetail (B. 31/12/’47),
my own observations suggesting not that
every eagle takes an occasional lamb, but
that an odd bird becomes a lamb-killer,
as a tiger occasionally turns man-eater.
There are no rabbits here, so hares are
their favorite food, though I have found
remains of cat, snake and jew-lizard
round their nests. They are also fond
of carrion, and may have got a bad name
by feasting on sheep killed by drought,
crows or flies
* * * *
“Yair”: When I showed old Maloney
the painting of his back paddock he was
unimpressed, so I asked had he ever been
enthusiastic about art. “I was, one year,”
he admitted. “But a city bloke let me
down. Reckoned he was a corker artist,
so I paid him a full guinea to paint that
bit of fence near the wattle-tree. And he
did it awful—so crook I burnt it. Yer
see that second post? Well, this artist
bloke thought he’d be funny and he
painted a magpie on that there post.
Called it ‘atmosphere.’ Reckoned ’e was
a ‘realist.’ In 28 years I ain’t never yet
seen a maggie on that post. They get on
to other posts, yair, but not that one!
‘Real’ my foot —are you a ‘realist’?” But
I’d already folded my canvas and was
contemplating the mulga.
* * * *
“Argumentative Mac”: Having an-
nounced myself I hereby hoe into “Old-
timer” for his nautical phraseology of
Murray navigators (B. 7/1/’4B). He uses
“knots an hour” when even on the
Murray, where they navigate in a way of
their own, a knot means “a nautical mile
an hour.” “Four knots a fortnight” might
be permissible if it was applicable to the
Invincible’s journey round Retail Bend
in 1929, as it took her that time to snig
herself over four miles of sandbanks on
a falling river. Also, gum-tree liners I
know don’t ring down on engine-room
telegraphs—they have none, but use direct
controls on the bridge. Then his
Struggler in the fog overruns her distance
and goes two miles past Mildura. Next
we are told “they swung the Struggler
about and went back to Mildura, two
miles astern.” Now, how could you go
two miles astern to Mildura, when it is
that distance ahead?
* * * *
“E. 2”: “I’d done all other kinds o’
cockyin’ before I took on cows,” related
Andy. “That was down Gippsland way.
The cockies there had lived on their
places all their lives an’ didn’t cotton on
t' me —a foreigner, y’ might say. Well,
I stood their standofiishness f’r a few
weeks an’ then I couldn’t stand no more
of it. So, thinkin’ t’ git in me share o’
spite, I named all me new cows after
local cockies’ wives an’ made it pretty
well known. I couldn’t do a thing wrong
after that. Yair, ttfey told me later that
shrewd bit o’ flattery won me the hearts
of the districk.”
* * * *
“Flathead”; Living in a foreshore
hut on an inlet, and a true member of
the old fishing school, Harry Barnett
used to dump the household garbage in
the shallows as “burly,” imparting “body”
to the local air. Offsetting the low-tide
stench was the fact that any time he
chose Harry could squat on the end of
his jetty and land half a dozen 10-inch
bream in the course of smoking one
cigarette. The inlet was a strongly-scented
Eden until a serpent from the city by the
name of Jones set up a fibro place next-
door and threatened to sue the cheese-
factory across the bay for the potency
of the easterly breeze. “So when I went
up to see him,” says Harry, “and told
him that it ain’t the factory, but my
garbage, he bit hook, line and sinker,
Reckoned he’d have me gaffed in any
law court - 111611 1 n °ti 66d that his hall
cupboard was open, there was fishin’
* ackle in it—]not flash y rods and floats ’
but fifties of gut and cord on bottles. I
knew I had me man, and that he must
be a decent sort of bloke underneath, so
1 told him t 0 B rab a line and come down
on to me i et fy and I’ ll show him why I
garbage m ‘ 1 turned Jt in at
“ That'll be £15 16s. 3d. for excess baggage , sir.”
midnight, but he was still landin’ ’em.
And now I’m thinkin’ of suin’ him —my
joint only hums, but his can do the whole
flamin’ scale!”
• » • ♦
“Turon River”: “The 0.D.” errs (B.
31/12/ ’47) when he says that Willy Wag-
tail invariably builds his nest in a tree
beside creek, dam or river. In the
Bathurst (N.S.W.) district there is a shed
built from undressed bush timber where
two waggies have nested for three seasons
at least. How these cheeky little birds
withstand the heat of the almost sizzling
galvanised-iron roof a few inches above
their nest, and cope with the din of a
busy shearing-time, has me beat, but
they appear to revel in it. Wool for the
nest is on tap—horsehair from the mus-
terers’ nags is there for the taking, and
ticks —well, you ask those two fat Willies!
The nearest water is a creek 50 yards
away.
* * * *
“Shavia”: At the time of writing,
scientists at the Adelaide University Zoo-
logy Department are breathlessly await-
ing the hatching of an egg, and no
amateur chicken-farmer ever walked the
floor more nervously. The “baby” is the
egg capsule of the baler seashell, a
specimen of which was sent to the Uni-
versity some weeks ago by a fisherman
from Ceduna, on South Australia’s far
West Coast. About the size and shape
of a large pineapple, the shell is made up
of a transparent substance and contains
nearly a hundred smaller eggs, which
are beginning to develop. When the
capsule was first sent to Adelaide, the
Uni.’s conchologist sent out an urgent
SOS for petrol so that sea-water could
be carted from the beach to fill a small
aquarium. Development has been
gradual, but patience looks like being re-
warded about the end of this month.
What happens when the egg hatches?
That’s what they’re waiting for.
* » » «
“Haskett”: “Frogs after thunder-
storms” (B. 31/12/ ’47) ? During a
drought-year that dried the clay subsoil
of the North Victorian plains into baked
cracks I was turning over the garden,
digging deeply, when a shovelful of
earth brought with it a soft, skin-covered
ball. I placed the grubby object in a
bucket, and when I splashed water over
it, the ball set up a quivering motion,
splitting down the centre of the back
with a motion like a zip-fastener, and
collapsing under what was now a very
lively little frog. After a moment or two
of twitching himself into his correct shape,
he prepared to hop into the teeming rain.
My guess is that when moisture is scarce
the frogs hermetically seal themselves with
their own skin, settle snugly into the deep
soil, and wait for better times.
• * ♦ «
“B. A. Ker”: Everybody in the camp-
ing-area, excepting me, caught fish for
10 days. I returned with an empty bag
and full bait-tin. Then, on the eleventh,
it happened!—2ft. long if it was an inch.
When the fish was cleaned and ready for
the pan my wife came back from the
surf. “A ribbon-fish?”—she was de-
lighted. “But are you sure it’s edible?”
I was. And next day some idiot ruined
her memory of “the best fish, meal we
have ever had” with, “How did the eel
go?”
• * * *
Lightning (B. 14/1 /’4B) is not
particular what kind of animal it wal-
lops. A polled bull, a long-horned bally-
faced steer, and a yearling heifer in a
mixed mob travelling through the Central
Burnett district a few years ago fell when
a summer storm turned on the fireworks.
The three separate strikes were all within
a minute, but two riders behind the mob
suffered only fright and “blue”-blindness.
Their mokes didn’t even shy. At Break-
neck Gully,'on the old road from Indoo-
roopilly to Fig Tree Pocket, Brisbane, in
the ’nineties, lightning wrought complete
havoc on a bullocky’s outfit, two polers
in the 10-buJlock team copping the full
blast, while the rest of the team, blinded
and maddened, surged over into the deep
gully and landed in a mess —dead polers,
waggon and all. The present name of
the ..place indicates the common injury.
A horseman riding ahead and another
riding beside the polers were untouched.
* * * *
“Hanko”; Becoming flashy, Little Joe
bought the widest-brimmed hat he could
get in Sidney ; a series of loudly-checked
shirt, jodhpurs, tan leggings and gaudy
silk bandanas; we weren’t really slain
until he unwrapped the pair of made-to-
measure boots with heels like 7oz. beer-
glasses. “Let’s see y’ walk in ’em,”
sniggered Big Pete. “Y’ll see me walk in
’em tomorrer,” snapped the little bloke.
“Gettin’ like him cowboy fella on the
pitchefs,” said Snowflake. “Gorn all
Western,” added Bailey. “Where’s y’r
rope, pard? Y’ll sure ’miff wanna rope
to throw them thar ornery, doggone two-
tooths.” At that. Little Joe took the
sulks and stowed the long-heeled crabs
under his bunk. Next morning he was
half-way to the horse-yard when he went
down with a sprained ankle. Big Pete
carried him to his bunk and the little
man groaned as the boot was being cut
away from his swollen foot. “Does it
hurt?” ventured Pete. “Of course it
hurts. Them bub-boots cawst me three
pup-poun’ ten.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: I hacked off a slab of
bread, dragged the syrup-tin nearer, and
stopped to scowl at the large mantis
waving feebly from the centre of the
morass. “Yair, he’s bin in there since
yesterdee,” announced Seventyfiver, indif-
ferently. “Well, you might’ve chucked
him out.” I got up to hunt another tin.
“What, an’ let ’im crawl round makin’
everythin’ sticky?” defended the old
bloke. “No, there ain’t no more,” he went
on. “That’s why his nibs is helpin’ out. Y’
oughter be mighty grateful fr this here*
feed o’ syrup.” “Who? Me or the
prayin’ bloke?” I asked. Seventyfiver
looked resentful. “That insurance coot
was here again yesterdee,” he said pre-
sently. “Always seems t’ strike here about
dinner-time. An’ he’s one o’ them fussy
kind that looks at his tucker like he ain’t
sure what it is, ’Course I knoo there was
enough bread when I asked him about
dinner, an’ there was the remains o’ that
rabbit in the camp-oven, but I clean for-
got about us runnin’ low on syrup.” He
stopped to squint at the mantis, praying
desperately from the iniquitous depths.
“S’pose it was a lousy trick t’ play on
that inseck,” he drawled thoughtfully,
“but y’ see, there weren’t much time, an’
he was the only thing I c’d see around
when I was gettin’ out the tin.”
PYRMONT BRIDGE.
Pyrmont Bridge is like a cop
Holding up his right hand —so!
Saying to a taxi “Stop!”
Signalling a bus to go.
Pyrmont Bridge controls small ships—
Little ships with pigs and maize
In from northern-river trips,
Up from southern harbor bays.
Pyrmont Bridge looms over boats
At the wharf-sides where they stay,
But at dawn a dozen throats
Clamor for the right-o’-way—
Whistling till the big draw swings,
Opens wide and lets them through,
Like a lot of barnyard kings,
Crowing “Cock-a-doodle-do.’ ?
Pyrmont Bridge is very old;
It was built when Cockle Bay
Was this Harbor’s name, I’m told.
In that dim and distant day
There were crowds of coastal boats,
When the dawns lit road and ridge,
All with raucous, noisy throats
Whistling for old Pyrmont Bridge.
Some day Pyrmont Bridge will say
“Roadway closed” to all the ships,
Out of coastal port or bay,
Coming in on busy trips.
Pyrmont Bridge will say “You stop,
Out there where the water’s deep.”
Then, a tired old traffic cop,
Pyrmont Bridge will go to sleep.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


THE SMEB SPRAY
Kills quick and keeps on killing
Enjoy freedom from Flies and
other insects this summer. Fly-
proof your home NOW with
SUPER QID, the Spray which
kills arid kills.
Spray SUPER QID on walls, ceil-
ings, light fittings, in garbage cans
and wherever flies gather. SUPER
QID leaves an invisible film—a
residue of D.D.T. that remains ior
months to kdep on killing flies and
other insects that settle on these
surfaces.
SUPER QID con-
tains 5% D.D.T.,
plus Pyrethrum
and Than i t e.
Flies and other
insects cannot
stand up to such
a death - dealing
compound.
Metropolitan
Prices:
Boz. bottles .. 1/8
16oz. bottles .. 2/11
QID
I IS mFi/8
TO All
INSECTS
j
Manufacturers & Distributors:
The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty. Ltd.,Sydney
Wise in the ways of Buyers and Sellers
When you market your wool clip through A.M.L.&F. you can be assured
that it will be displayed to advantage, valued wisely, and sold by an
expert alert to the mood of the market.. .an auctioneer who is known and
respected by the buyer as “an A.M.L.&F. man.” Get the best possible
price for your wool. Team up with A.M.L.&F., the organisation with
84 years of extensive experience in the service of the man on the land!
iustralian,
i
ercantiie, Land &
(Inc. in England, 1803.)
Land & F
inance Coy. Ltd.
4 Biigh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
THE
DAVIDSON & SMITH SPECIAL
©
%
The
Finest
Quality
Saddle
Procurable
IrAn exceptionally strong, well-made
NPoley Saddle, all over selected rough-
out or smooth-out kip leather. Built
on specially-made solid gullet steel
plated tree, narrow waist, long flaps,
reinforced knee pads set high up on
the flap, mounted with Him Ring
Surcingle, Him best quality bevelled
and numbered stirrup leathers, im-
proved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l5/15/- Complete.
WIDSON & SMITH
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets,
East Sydney. Telephone: FA 5013.
T HE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing Records.
“R.N.”: At last an attempt
is being made to establish an
official list of big tallies in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, and the
co-operation of pastoralists,
shearers and shearing contractors
is sought for the purpose.
There’ll have to be a standard
by which all claims may be
measured. Length of the shear-
ing day has shortened and there
is variation in shearing awards
and conditions in different States
and countries. An eight-hour day
will be the basis of judgment.
Many big tallies have been
made in shorter time than that;
on the other hand, big tallies in
New Zealand have occupied a
day of almost nine hours. It
doesn’t follow that a tally in a
day exceeding eight hours will
be disqualified, but for compari-
son the claimant will be credited
with the number of sheep he
would have shorn in eight hours
at the same speed.
Then there’s the class of
sheep. You can’t compare a
tally in crossbred lambs with
one in full-grown Merinos. In
Australia Merinos are the main
sheep, and the Australian record
must be based on adult Merinos,
Tallies made in Merino lambs
will be taken separately. Cross-
bred tallies in grown sheep and
also in crossbred lambs will be
classed by themselves, though
for overseas use the highest daily
tally in any breed is likely to
gain prominence because of the
varied breeds and crosses in
other parts of the world.
The Merino tally made at
Alice Downs (Q.) by Jack Howe
in October, 1892, of 321 sheep
in 7hr. 40min. is still accepted
as the record ; it was made with
the blades. Good tallies with
the machines include Jim
Power’s 315 in 7hr. 20min. at
Barenya (Q.), in 1893. In New
Zealand a Maori, J. Hape, is
stated to have shorn 378 sheep
in Bhr. 54min. In more recent
years Alan Hayes, in Tasmania,
shore 318 Corriedale lambs in
a day. In addition to individual
tallies, there are team records;
in West Australia there have
been instances of teams averag-
ing over 220 per man per day
for a week.
The old records will take a
lot of beating, as the sheep to-
day are bigger and heavier, cut
far more wool, have heavier
body folds and more trimmings.
Collection and compilation of
information on shearing tallies
is being done by J. J. Hardie,
c/o Grazcos, 46 Young-street,
Sydney, and all claims and par-
ticulars should be sent to him.
Individual tallies should be of
not fewer than 300 sheep per day
and team averages about the
220 mark. Claims should be
accompanied by (1) name of
shearer, (2) tally, (3) class of
sheep (Merino sheep or lambs,
crossbred sheep or lambs), (4)
date of tally, (5) name of station,
(6) name of owner or contractor,
(7) names of witnesses. '
Catching a Colt.
“Wirrameju”: Every man has
something distinctive in his
make-up ; so has every horse, so
no set rules can be laid down for
colt-breaking, serves for
one might spoil another. But
before a horse can be broken
(or gentled, as I prefer to call it),
he must be caught, handled,
mouthed, led, saddled, mounted,
ridden, schooled and worked.
You can teach him much; he
can teach himself much more if
he has your confidence.
First of all you must be able
to catch him easily and any-
where. Neglect of this part of a
horse’s education leads to the
commonest and most exasperat-
ing “vice.” Run your horse into
the yard, preferably a round or
octagonal one about 20ft. in dia-
meter, Get in it yourself and
just sit down on one side or in
the middle, and smoke your pipe
until the horse settles down and
is thoroughly used to your being
there. Then get a light 10ft. pole
with a flag attached to one end
and rub him gently with it, start-
ing at the withers and working
along his back and shoulders, but
not above 1 the withers or near
his hindquarters or lower legs.
Do both sides, and continue this
until he submits to it.
When he has submitted, gradu-
ally shorten your grip of the
pole until you can touch him.
No tickling touches. Place the
flat of your hand firmly on his
shoulder. Then rub and stroke
your way to his withers until it
will be an easy matter, to slip
a rope round his neck and tie
him up.
This, of course, is the ideal;
and you’ll do it only with ideal
horses. Next time you’ll either
be able to do without the pole or
you’ll find yourself facing his
rump and, perhaps, a pair of
heels.
Immediately he refuses to face
you and offers to kick, get your
whip and halter. Make sure the
whip is a light one you can use
for a good while, and that it has
a “cracker” capable of a noise
like a rifle-shot. Start working
him round the yard one way at a
trot. Crack the whip behind him
when he lags, and hit him only
when he shows his rump. Then
hit him hard behind the hips.
After a while he will learn that
he is being punished only when
he turns away. In his own good
time he’ll work out that the alter-
native is to turn and face you.
Walk up and offer him the
halter. The chances are that he'll
“The ’hoppers took half me crop!”
whizz away and round again, so
be ready .with the whip.
A few more times and eventu-
ally he will face up and refuse
to turn away wherever you move
and, in fact, will follow you
closely round the yard. Stand
well back in front of him ; then,
by gently flicking behind his
knees, you will make him come
up to you, and it will be an easy
matter to slip the halter on him.
A horse taught to be caught
this way rarely forgets it, and
will be easily caught anywhere.
If he should lapse again,
don’t pursue him. Put him in
the yard, and one crack from
your whip will bring him “about
turn” like a well-trained soldier.
The more you pursue and “bail
him up,” the more you are teach-
ing him a vice ; and the more
you’ll have to pursue him. The
whole exercise will take only 20
to 30 minutes a day, and is worth
weeks of saved time and un-
pleasantness if done properly.
Green Manure.
“Bill C.”: Too many value a
green-manure crop only as a
source of humus and nitrogen,
and so they may not bother
about planting one if their land
is of known fertility. But, in
addition to being a great soil-
improver, the green-manure crop
is a great deterrent to weed-
growth. It will stop some weeds,
and it will interfere greatly with
the ambitions of those which it
can’t stop. The bare fallow is
always a great invitation to
weeds; in warm, wet districts
cultivations never remain free
of weeds for long. Moreover, a
green-manured paddock will
take inches more rain than a
bare one without becoming
soggy, and sheet erosion cannot
occur. And if is always observed
during a drought that crops
growing in paddocks that were
green-manured during recent
months hold out far better than
others in neglected paddocks.
Wimmera Ryegrass.
“Myrrhee”: L. J. Cook, a
pasture experimentalist, in the
S.A. “Journal of Agriculture,”
stresses its importance in S.A.
pastures. Satisfactory results'
are obtained in districts with a
rainfall from as low as 12in. up
to those around the 20in. mark.
It thrives in winter and spring.
Sown on rich, well-prepared soil
in autumn, 41b. of seed to the
acre will give excellent results.
On poorer soils or soils in the
course of development, lower
rates of seeding are advised —
ilb. to ilb. per acre. In cereal
districts per acre sown with
the wheat will provide good
feed for a season or two, but if
the life of the pasture is to be
prolonged, it will need care in
management. In the initial sea-
son allow the stand to mature
seed, but prevent a too-heavy
seeding.
Potatoes for Pigs.
“Mr.”: They should be
given only when available at a
price that makes the idea pay.
L. A. Downey, Victorian pig
expert, estimates that four tons
of boiled or steamed, or six tons!
of raw, potatoes are equal to
one ton of cereal meal. These
values, however, apply only
when potatoes are used in bal-
anced rations.
When feeding the maximum
quantity of potatoes consistent
with good growth, give young
pigs their usual diet of cereal
meal and either separated milk
or meatmeal until they are
about 601 b. live weight and then,
continuing with the same quan-
tities of those foods, introduce
cooked potatoes in quantities
sufficient to satisfy their appe-
tites as they grow to baconer
weights. For brood sows half
the cereal allowance may be re-
placed by potatoes. When cook-
ing tubers use only sufficient
water to prevent them from
burning.
Mastitis.
“Tesh”: A contributing cause
is bruising of the udder cells by
leaving teat-cups on too long.
Prevention is better than cure,
and all cows should first have a
stream or two from each teat
milked into a strip-cup—a jam-
or fruit-tin over which a piece
of stocking or silk has been
stretched. Mammitis granules
or particles of pus will show up
clearly and the cow can then be
milked and treated separately.
The Commonwealth Serum
Institute says that penicillin is
curing up to 90 p.c. of cases
where streptococcus is the cause,
and only about 10 p.c. where
staphylococci (pus - forming)
germs are present. This means
that the chronic form will yield
to treatment, but the acute is yet
to be mastered. New cows
need close checking. Carefully
hand-milked herds are not giving
trouble, which fact implies that
machines need watching.
Using D.D.T.
“Billjim”: When using it for
control of domestic insect pests,
remember that D.D.T, is not a
repellent. Use it so as to wet the
wall but not as other fly-sprays.
In a screened house treat all
the gauze with 4 p.c. D.D.T. in
kero., using a paint-brush. Paint
or spray the parts around win-
dows, edges of doors and hang-
ings. By this method flies that
have got in without contacting
the gauze will soon sit on a
treated surface.
For full control in an un-
screened house it will be neces-
sary to treat cow-bails and
stables. The treated surface
should be wetted with the mix-
ture so that the oil just runs ;
applied asi a relatively coarse
spray about half a pint is needed
for 100 square feet of wall space.
Use of D-D.T. spray for mos-
quitoes needs ,to be more
thorough as mosquitoes shelter
in dark corners and behind
furniture and clothing. Al-
though effective against moths
in a carpet, don’t trust D.D.T.
for clothes ; stick to naphthalene
or paradichlorbenzene. Silver-
fish are susceptible to D.D.T.
Treat book shelves, skirting-
boards and bottoms of cup-
boards and drawers. Bed-bugs
and cockroaches cave-ih to it.
To be rid of meat-ant nests
continual treatment of the nests
with loz. of 10 p.c. D.D.T. is
effective, and residual D.D.T.
will rid the house of the small
black- and red-ants.
Barley-Growing.
“Hortus”: Barley can be
grown in soil not good enough
for wheat. Work the ground well


HIGH GLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
FIFE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb.
Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended
with American, African and Aus-
tralian Picked Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S”
FINE CUT READY RUIiBED
FOB CIGARETTES, 24/- per lb.
Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia.
Beautifully Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TBADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty„ Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
N
YOUR DOC
Is worth caring for.
Be on the watch for
signs or digestive disorders such as list-
lessness, poor appetite, dull or loose coat
or a warm nose. If you notice any of
these symptoms give him a course of
Barko Condition Powders immediately.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
1/6 PER BOX AT ALL CHEMISTS
Kill instantly with
CYAN O GAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading
Rabbit Fumigant
ECONOMICAL amt a CERTAIN
KILLER
v-
vv
m
n
A
t,'LH
mm
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
0
0;
4 4
1
■-x:-
BWWWW
■ ■ «w«
KEEP YOUR EN6INE
Mobileil clean
GIVES..
M 4716
• A Cleaner Engine
• Perfect Lubrication
• Longer Engine Life
• Improved Performance
• Quicker Starting
• Complete Protection at
all speeds & temperatures
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTV. LTD
VACUUM
OVAllll
PRODUCT
ask for Mobiloil -THE WORLD'S QUALITY OIL
and make it friable. Don’t have
the firm seed-bed that wheat re-
quires. The ground must be
well-drained, as barley does not
like “wet feet.”
The best rotation for barley-
hay is wheat. The sheep can
comei in on the stubble, pick at
the weeds and leave their
manure. This, ploughed under,
is a great base for a good barley
crop. April and May are the best
months for sowing. Don’t sow
heavily barley stools very
freely-—solb. per acre is ample.
Fertilise as for wheat; about
561 b. of super, is suitable, if on
new ground 401 b. A little potash
improves the growth. If a young
crop looks spindly or rank let
sheep feed it down. Barley
responds to feeding-off.
Most of the grain produced is
used for malting purposes, but
barley is also a valuable stock
feed. It lies between maize and
oats as far as protein and car-
bohydrates are concerned, and
has less oil than either maize or
oats. Barley does well as green
fodder; what’s more, it’s the
earliest straw crop that a
farmer can grow. If carefully
grown at intervals it provides a
good continuous feed when
fodder is generally scarce.
Apricot Scab.
“Mr.”: Apply Bordeaux spray
(6:4:40) as final leaves are
falling (about end of May in
Victoria) and again at pink-bud
stage (about mid-August). This,
done over a period of three years'
in the Goulburn Valley by the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture, resulted in a reduction
of infected fruits from 7 p.c. to
2 p.c. For an orchard prepare
the Bordeaux by dissolving 121 b.
of finely crystallised bluestone in
72gal. water in an 80gal. spray
va t. Then mix 121 b. hydrated
lime with Bgal. water, start the
agitators working and slowly
pour the lime solution into the
vat. For small quantities dis-
solve l|lb. bluestone in sgal.
water in a non-metallic vessel
and, using another vessel, dis-
solve hydrated lime in
another sgal. Mix the two by
pouring them simultaneously
into a third non-metallic vessel
and spray immediately.
Rearing Turkeys.
“Gip”: If allowed to roam at
will, getting most of their own
food over the, homestead pad-
docks during the day and penned
up only at night, turkeys keep
strong and healthy. They like
a warm dry climate, can stand
great heat, but do not like
dampness.
They should be allowed to
nest where they please, but
freshly-hatched chicks should be
put, with the hen, into a speci-
ally constructed run for about
a week until they are strong
enough to forage in the grass in
the open. While in the run give
them finely-chopped greens and
see that their water is in a
shallow dish out of the sun, pre-
ferably covered with fine nettifig
to prevent them lying in it.
The run should be on a well-
drained slope. Use lin. netting
from the ground up for a foot
or two and have the top of the
run netted in to give protection
from hawks, etc. Build a low
shelter at one end.
Don’t put grown turkeys in
with the hen and chicks ; build a
separate run for them, like an
ordinary fowlrun. Here in N.Q.
we don’t bother to build a solid
house for them —just a shelter
from rain. In fine weather
turkeys prefer to roost out in
the open.
Most losses are caused by the
poults following the hen when
not strong enough to battle
through long grass into which
the hen takes them for protec-
tion and becoming damp from
badly-drained ground where the
run is situated, or accidents,
such as falling into open water-
troughs, etc., and having insuffi-
cient green feed.
Hints for the Farm.
“Nerida”: Tree-lucerne makes
a fine windbreak if planted in
double' or rows. Planted
singly it can be dwarfed and
clipped into a fine hedge, but is
unsuitable for outside fences un-
less planted at sufficient distance
from the fence to prevent dam-
age by stock. Tree - lucerne
provides honey for bees and
the clippings are good food for
stock.
“Gip”: When preparing the
seed-bed make sure it is well
drained. The soil should be
very light preferably a sandy
loam. Work the ground up well,
leaving it as fine as possible. A
few days before planting disin-
fect the ground with a weak
solution of permanganate of
potash against insects' or fungus.
This is particularly advisable
when planting tomatoes. A
quicker and greater percentage
of germination will be had if the
seeds are pressed firmly into the
soil and the bed kept damp.
“Sarina”: Rosellas are a
profitable crop along the
Queensland-N.S.W. coast. Give
the plants a good, deep soil and
good drainage; clay subsoils
kill them. They should be set
out 3ft. apart in November or
December. The seedlings are
easily raised in the home plot,
but must be transplanted before
they grow too large and their
long roots develop. If in sugar-
cane country the growing bushes
should be sprayed with lead
arsenate to beat the blue cane-
bug which cats rosella leaves.
“Ben Acre”; If your car has
a bowl petrol-filter, carry a piece
of sheet-cork. The cork washer,
if it has been in for some time,
is hard to make airtight after
removal. A new one is easily
made. Cut the outside of the
washer to fit neatly. The inside
can be roughly shaped. An
emergency washer can be cut
from a tyre tube, but it won’t
last more than a day.
“Myrrhee”; A piece of
rubber tubing on the nozzle of
the drenching-gun, and project-
ing slightly over the point, will
reduce the risk of injury to the
mouth. Stand the sheep firmly
on its four feet, the nose level
with the eyes. Hold the head
firmly but not too tightly in posi-
tion, with four fingers under the
lower jaw and the thumb over
the nose. Pass the nozzle
through the side of the mouth,
over the tongue and between the
back teeth, and pour the dose
slowly. Lower the head imme-
diately if the sheep begins to
cough.
“Gip”: If you grip wood or
soft metals in a steel vice they
will most likely be damaged.
Cut two pieces of tin the same
length as the jaws of the vice
and about 4in. deep. Bend the
tin at right angles to fit over the
jaws. Glue thick leather to the
tin so that anything placed in
the vice can be gripped between
the two pieces of leather and
will not be damaged.
“E.H.S.”: Cheaply produced,
high-grade silage can be made
from a mixture of grasses and
clover. The labor of handling
grass has prevented grass silage
receiving the attention it de-
serves, but this has been over-
come in Great Britain by an
elevator designed to pick up
grass as left by the mower. The
machine may be trailed behind
the mower or used as a separate
unit. It is simple, cheap, quick
in action and provides a clean
pick-up. Much labor can be
saved in the subsequent handling
if grass is put into pits instead
of containers. Pits should be
trough-shaped, with sloping ends
to enable loads to be drawn in
and out. In holding soils they
should be drained or made on a
sloping site.
“BilJjim”: To beat scaly leg-
mite in poultry, dip the feet
and shanks in crude oil and scrub
thoroughly with a hard brush.
Don’t allow oil to touch feathers
or the upper parts of legs.
Washing in soapy water, remov-
ing scales with a brush and
applying a mixture of lard, nine
parts, and sulphur, one part, is
effective. Disinfect the perches
by spraying with crude oil.


v'
MS-
MS-
S
Gillette
blades
give these advantages
Gillette edges are sharper
than a surgeon’s scalpel
Gillette anchors
each blade in its wrapper
Gillette puts a shoulder
behind each edge
Gillette blades bring you the sharpest edges ever honed and each superb cutting edge
is shaped in three distinct facets, thus forming a supporting shoulder which takes the
strain. This extra strength means longer life. With
Gillette blades you need fewer, blades to shave
more often, more quickly, more cleanly and
more comfortably.
*Good mornings 9
begin with Gillette
C3/337R
G>.<S>
c-
-7
O
BLADES
c?
5 BLADES, 1/6
Schwartzes’ great dismay. But
presently they would come
across a hare-track, and fall
back again.
Late in the afternoon an old
touring-car of the type used by
rabbit-trappers and such rural
aristocracy pulled up beside the
hay-paddock. A man with a
villainously dark and unshaven
face asked for the boss and
wanted to know “if there was
any chance of a stocking con-
tract for me and three'mates.
Keep ourselves.”
They came from Ganmain —
“the real hay district” —and
they had stocked thousands of
acres every year for Hamilton
and Robinson. But, he explained
at some length, “Buz” Hamilton
had done them in for a fiver and
therefore “his b hay can
rot on the b ground for
all I care.”
“You can start now,” Weis-
mann said. The more the
merrier.
ON the second day the
Schwartz boys fell unac-
countably behind the Kleinerts
with their stocking, though they
appeared to be bustling more
than ever.
Weismann began to watch
them very suspiciously, and it
didn’t take him long, even from
a distance, to conclude that their
father’s binder was missing a
number of sheaves, which the
boys had to tie by hand. He
could even tell, from the way
they stooped, that sometimes
they were merely gathering the
loose hay and hiding it, untied,
in the middle of their stocks.
Weismann galloped across and
confronted them most sternly.
But they were by now in such a
state of distress from overwork
that they were prepared to ditch
at least oue of the 10 command-
ments with which, like the rest
of the Hopetoun boys, they had
been so thoroughly indoctrinated
in their youth.
“That old galoot!” they said.
“He doesn’t know how to drive
a binder, so he makes us work
our guts out so that he can
keep up to Gus and Alf. You
go and roar him up.”
Weismann intercepted
Schwartz just as his binder
threw out a series of untied
sheaves. He shouted at him in-
dignantly to stop. Schwartz
looked at the loose hay with
feigned indifference.
“That’s nothing,” he said.
“Any binder will miss a sheaf
now and then. It’s that lousy
twine you’re supplying.”
Weismann didn’t bother to ex-
plain that the others were getting
on perfectly well with the same
twine.
“It’s got to stop,” he said
firmly, “or thfere’ll be no pay
for you.”
Then he told him how he was
exhausting his boys, and
Schwartz lamented profanely on
the fate of a man “whose own
sons turn dog on him.”
He got off his seat reluctantly
and made a few experimental
adjustments to his knotter with
Weismann looking on scepti-
cally. Each time the binder
started Weismann rode beside it
and stopped it again. Schwartz
cursed the binder’s inventor, its
manufacturer and everyone con-
nected with it, with the tacit ex-
ception of himself.
“It’s no use blaspheming,”
Weismann said in length. “I’ll
get Gus Schaeffel to come and
fix it.”
Schwartz looked mortally
offended, but Weismann
cantered over. Gus agreed to
come and help, but only on con-
dition that Schwartz cut on his
block for an equal length of
time. Schwartz became scorn-
ful of this meanness of spirit.
“What sort of a Christian does
he call himself, praying away in
church every Sunday, and then
behaving like this to his neigh-
bor?”
But the Kleinert boys stopped
their stocking to come and
watch Gus, full of vulgar joy at
the prospect of seeing Schwartz
humiliated.
Gus made minute and delicate
adjustments. Schwartz poured
contempt and abuse on him.
But Gus went on in his madden-
ingly confident way, still smiling
his chimpanzee single.
“Give her a go at that,” Gus
said after 10 minutes. “If she
doesn’t tie this time you’d better
sling her in the rubbish-heap and
get a new one.”
Schwartz clambered on the
binder swearing that she was
ruined properly. But the binder
worked perfectly, tying every
sheaf unfailingly and twice as
tightly as Schwartz had dared
to try. The Kleinert boys
cheered loudly. One of them
thumped Gus so hard on the
back that he nearly bit his
tongue off.
“Good old Gus,” he said
kindly. “He’s! not as big a fool
as he looks.” Gus looked de-
lighted, not being accustomed
to compliments of any kind.
The Ganmain stookers were
putting up a great performance
on the block where Alf’s binder
had a day’s start on them,
sweeping down the paddock,
four rows of stocks at a time.
The Schwartzes and Kleinerts
watched them, astounded that
they could do so much without
any appearance of bustling.
Weismann stopped to admire
how they worked from the hip,
never taking one unnecessary
step, tossing sheaves exactly
into place from a distance and
making every stook firm and
symmetrical. He kept cocking
an eye towards the road in case
any more Ganmain men went by.
ON Saturday everyone worked
all day. Indeed they worked
harder “because we can have a
good spell on Sunday.” On
Sunday at the Hopetoun Church
Schwartz was boasting to a
sceptical group that he had “used
up four bales of twine in a day.”
He was not in the least discon-
certed when a local mathema-
tician worked out that he had
either finished his 83 acres on
Thursday, or the crop was going
four tons to the acre.
“I’ll finish my part on Mon-
day dinner-time,” Schwartz pro-
claimed. “And I’ll buy a nine-
gallon keg with my bonus and
get that old wowser Weismann
drunk.”
On Sunday afternoon
Schwartz was observed doing
some overhauling on his binder,
and his boys put up a few rows
of stocks in the hollow where
they thought they would be un-
observed,
Weismann and Alf also went
for a walk to the hay-paddock,
because they couldn’t think of
a more pleasant entertainment
for a Sunday afternoon. They
“stepped off” the remaining
blocks of uncut wheat, and Alf
became painfully embarrassed
when his employer informed
him that he was well in advance
of the others, and soon would
be justified in trying his luck on
his own again.
“I ain’t done it yet,” he said.
“You see if my luck don’t turn.”
Weismann estimated that Alf
would finish his block at about
two o’clock, Gus by four o’clock
and Schwartz would be extended
to finish his by sunset. They
went and told Schwartz the
estimates, and Schwartz was in-
dignant.
On Monday morning
Schwartz got away to an hour’s
advantage by again starting
early, but this time there was a
light dew, and Weismann in-
sisted that the early cut of hay
be put into long “hollow”
stooks to let the air go through
and lessen the risk of moulding.
The Schwartz boys com-
plained bitterly about their
parent’s energy. , , .
The Kleinerts arrived a bit
late, having had a beer-party on
Sunday night in anticipation of
the big stocking cheque. But
they got going at terrific speed
to prove the family’s pet theory
that “beer is good for you.”
Gus Schaeffel looked very in-
jured at Schwartz’s tactics, but
asserted: “It will do him no
good trying to win the bonus
that way”—as though he could
see an avenging angel hovering
over Schwartz’s binder. But it
was Gus who was the first to
have trouble. He had gone a
mere 100 yards when all the
mechanism of his binder came
to a sudden, shuddering halt and
the big driving-wheel scooped
out a furrow in the earth as it
skidded along until the horses
stopped. Gus found a piece of
wire caught in the knife, and it
took him no more than five
minutes to get going again. But
the next round he caught
another piece and broke off a
knife-section.
Weismann came galloping
across to see what was causing
the delay, and while he was
helping Gus to rivet on a new
section they noticed that Alf had
stopped on the far end of his
block. His binder was still there
when Gus started, and Weis-
mann was perturbed to see Alf
walking disconsolately back to
his spare-parts depot.
Alf’s binder had tried to cut
through a solid box-tree root,
and by the greatest misfortune
the knife had broken. There
was a spare, but Alf was very
shaken. He lost considerable
time getting the knife and fitting
it, because several teeth in the
comb had been bent.
“My luck’s changed,” he told
Weismann. “Only once in a
hundred will a knife break like
this, and if a new one breaks,
what will happen to this welded
one?”
From Alf, Weismann galloped
back to Gus, who was in trouble
again.
“I’ve been stopped twice
more,” he said very indignantly.
“Each time by wire. Last time
a curly piece that got tangled in
the comb and I could hardly get
it out. It looks funny to me.”
SCHWARTZ’S binder sailed
on as steady as a ship. He
sent his horses at a cruel pace,
and every time he saw Weis-
mann coming he shouted to his
boys to “whip a new team in.”
The boys gave up trying to
keep ahead of the Kleinerts.
Schwartz was in a wonderful
mood, looking across gloatingly
at the other binders’ misfortune
and shouting profane encourage-
ments at his horses.
By midday there was so little
left that the position of the con-
testants could be easily judged.
Schwartz had caught up with
Gus and was not very far behind
Alf. He did not stop for dinner,
merely getting one of his boys
to bring him a few bites to eat
while they changed his team and
put in twine. Alf and Gus had
their meals nearly as quickly.
At three o’clock Alf and
Schwartz were level, Gus had
fallen back through getting
more wire in his comb, and had
sunk into a very sullen and sus-
picious state. Schwartz could
be heard all over the 250-acre
paddock as he shouted to his
horses and boys. Then sud-
denly his voice rose to an ex-
ultant triumph. Alf had stopped,
and after a brief inspection had
swung his binder out of the crop
and started to drive back out of
gear. ■
Schwartz finished his block,
trotted over and finished Alf’s,
and just before the sun was
setting, he followed Gus on the
finishing round of the paddock.
The stookers, who had been
close behind the binders all day,
finished, too, and all the men
gathered together before getting
their cheques and going home.
They congratulated Weismann
and each other on the success-
ful conclusion. Alf congratu-
lated Schwartz on winning the
bonus, informing him that it
was really no race, with luck
like his. . . . ,
But Gus would not join in tne
felicitations. “It’d be dead easy
for someone to throw a few
pieces of wire into one block
and some spiky roots into the
other,” he muttered.
“By Gawd, what sort of a
sport do you call yourself?
Schwartz demanded in virtuous
reproof. “Look at me boys,
here. They lost their bet and
they’re not saying a word.


'Wmm
mums
s'.-fte
wm
u
wm
mm
m
m
grusade
3^
m
m
mzm&
%'l’i-V,
■ ■ i
..... ~.... U..‘l
-ffiT
IP
m
99
i— - •
GUARA NTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
tor Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
f<*s
fOK
T
TO
Sommer Heat
There’s nothing quite as
good as an occasional
Wolfe’s Schnapps with iced
water, soda or other
cordial to quench your
thirst and replace lost
energy.
WOLFES
mmm
seeipps
W5.197.t2
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S RÈMY MARTIN BRANDY
No woman I’ve ever met believes
sne herself would commit the un-
forgivable sin of poaching.”
—"New Idea. v
But she’ll do it just the same
if the man is game.
*i* 4*
With longer skirts the springs
of emotion are not set off by
knee-action.
( 4* 4.
In nearly a quarter of a century
at ms Christmas shows magician
Frank Morris used to pull a rabbit
out of a hat.”
Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
Most of us are satisfied to get
a hat out of a rabbit.
“Swim the backstroke every day
for a few minutes- in bedroom or
bathroom.” — Woman’s paper.
After you’ve done the crawl
out of bed.
*i* *J* ❖
“ ‘Deaths from heart-failure are
temfic among men over 50 who have
tried to keep up with some young
chick,’ he says ."—Sydney "Sun:”
“Let’s have our fling,” the old
chaps croak,
“Ere to the grave we’re
carted;
We’ll not be told by any bloke
Wef lived on chicken-hearted.”
Bert.
4* 4*
“In the majority of restaurants it
is a common occurrence to see wait-
resses serve the men, allowing women
to wait.” — Woman’s paper.
Men take this preference as a
matter of course.
“Hey! I just got the jackpot in the quiz!”
Many people who think talk
is cheap have changed their
minds on receiving their tele-
phone bill.
•b *l* 4*
“Women like to pretend to be a
fraction of their real age.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Which is both improper and
vulgar.
Rhythm and Reason.
Well, the point is, do women
attend a dance in order to dance, or
merely for the pleasure (presumably)
ot being held in some man’s arms?”
—“New Idea:”
Strong - minded women who
debate
This point no doubt will look
askance
At those suggesting that a dance
Needs menfolk, and asseverate
That by no rightful estimate
Can males be reckoned to
enhance
Soft airs and rhythms that
entrance
The matron and the celibate.
And yet, in spite of this protest-
ing,
I feel assured that women quest-
ing
For joy in dancing, in the end
Would rather, one and all, be
pressed
To some male partner’s sturdy
chest
Than dance with just a bosom
friend.
D. H. E.
The Stimulus.
A Chicago doctor reported better
luck with his fishing after dosing
his worms with benzedrine.”
My cousin Izaak could hardly
wait to try the experiment. With
two bottles of benzedrine tablets
and a can of outsize worms we
entrusted ourselves to the bosom
of Cook’s River. Izaak dropped
a couple of tablets into the can
as we pushed off.
The first worm, on feeling the
sting of the hook, sprang into
activity, and I had to get busy
with the boat-hook to save Ike
from being strangled. The
second worm took the hook like
a five-pound schnapper, and by
the time Ike had finished play-
ing it the remainder of them
were leaping eagerly over the
side with muffled hunting-cries.
Izaak flung the rest of the bottle
overboard and we rowed for the
shore for more worms.
A starfish rose from the
waves, careened inboard and ex-
ploded against a thwart; In a
few minutes the air was thick
with a sort of marine meteor dis-
play, and we ducked for cover.
Izaak arose with a cry of pain
as a drug-crazed barnacle bored
through the bottom boards and
took a death-grip on his throat.
His cry changed to one of fear
as he pointed to the water. An
ugly crowd of miscellaneous
fish was mobbing the boat, and
a kind of threatening murmur
filled the air.
Game to the last, Ike tried to
throw a line among them, but
foul-hooked himself by the ear,
whereupon a ravening mullet
seized the slack and began to
play him scientifically. There
was only one thing for it: push-
ing the contents of the second
bottle down his gullet, I thrust
my cousin Izaak into the fray.
The day’s catch, though
marred by tooth-marks, was
adequate.
PLUM.
Breaking-up the Home.
“A woman won an annulment when
she complained that her husband had
married her just to get her apartment,
then locked her out.”
So many a woman, wooed and
coerced
By epithets suitably smooth
and flowery,
Has come to her senses too late
and cursed
The bloke who wedded her
for her dowry ;
Although it’s possible she was
the first
To find that even within the
hour he.
With frank and honest sim-
plicity.
Preferred her room to her
company.
And though the newly-
unmarried bride
Unravelled with ease a knot so
tied,
A lot of expensive legal
dodging
A waited the lady when they tried
Between the litigants to decide
Which had the custody of the
lodging.
P. M. LUSK.
Progress of a Diplomat.
Asked by press representatives
prior to his departure from
London by air whether he was
Moscow-bound on a mission of
vital importance, Sir Snodgrass
Stallack-Tyte, former Ambassa-
dor to Yac, emphasised that his
trip abroad was completely
divorced from diplomacy.
“The mainspring of mai
visit,” he said, “is mai passion-
ate and lifelong interest in
mural friezes. There is, Ai
understand, an exquisite ex-
ample in the Purge Room
of the Kremlin. M. Stalin
has very kaindly consented
to allow me to study them in
detail some taime. Ai hope
eventually to incorporate this re-
search in the book on mural
friezes Ai am compiling. Now,
gentlemen, if you’ll kaindly step
off mai feet Ai’ll get to mai
waiting plane.”
Shortly after the plane had
taken off Moscow Radio’s chief
commentator, M. Suspishinov,
came on the air. “The Kremlin
knows nothing of the invitation,”
he said in his cultured manner.
“But let this Sir Stallack-Tyte
thing, this depraved scion of
old-school-tiedom who is the
Imperialist warmonger Bevin’s
crawling minion keep his filthy
hog’s-snout out of our delectable
Soviet fishpond. He pomes, no
doubt, cap in hand to beg, on
behalf of his debilitated, louse-
bound country, some grain to
keep futile Englishmen alive,
or will slimily try to divert
our great Fatherland from
gaining defensive outposts on
the Mediterranean and the Per-
sian Gulf to defeat the vile plot
of the so-called democracies to
encircle us!”
Later. The diplomatic corre-
spondent of the Heiferville
(Pa.) “Hooter” has cabled
from Zagreb that he has
learned on unimpeachable
authority that Sir Snodgrass
went to Moscow with a treaty
in his pocket for a Customs
Union with the U.S.S.R. and
an offer of British citizenship
rights to all Soviet citizens. He
learns, too, that in the interests
of international amity Sir Snod-
grass, as a member of the
M.C.C., has agreed to act as an
umpire in the Improbables
versus Impossibles cricket match
in Moscow, which is being held
as a preliminary to the selection
of a team to play England in the
first Anglo-Soviet Test series.
He further states that great good-
will arose when Sir Snodgrass
made M. Stalin a gift of a tin
of treacle. It appears that the
Soviet dictator’s favorite method
of meditation is to soak his wal-
rus moustache in treacle and
suck it for an hour or two. A
tin of treacle is worth 17,000
roubles ip the Moscow State
shops.
Still later. According to War-
saw Radio, during a six-hour
interview with Sir Snodgrass
Stallack-Tyte, at which M. Stalin
agreed in principle to a barter
arrangement whereby British
radar-controlled spittoons would
be exchanged for wolf-hair doy-
leys and macadamised door-
mats, the Soviet Chief of State,
who had just come from a brac-
ing two-hour swim in the icy
Moskva River, was in such
jovial spirits that his personal
physician feared he might, if the
conviviality continued, break
into a smile. During the long
session M. Stalin smoked 74
cigarettes and drank two buckets
of o.p. vodka. Later, according
to the radio, Sir Snodgrass was
the personal guest of M. Stalin
at the ballet, where they occu-
pied the dictator’s special secret
box made of British reinforced
steel which has eye-slits of
American bullet-proof glass.
Much later. ' The Diplo-
matic Correspondent of the
Choctaw (Va.) “Hep Cat,” in a
sensational dispatch from
Ankara, quotes circles close to
the Politburo as revealing that
secret police discovered in Sir
Snodgrass Stallack-Tyte’s brief-
case a fountain-pen containing
an atomic-headed time-bomb
which the British diplomat has
confessed he intended secreting
in M. Stalin’s desk. Actually he
didn’t see M. Stalin but one of
his 16 doubles. The Soviet
leader happened to be in a sani-
tarium at Yagutsk, where he is
being treated for ingrowing
warts on the oesophagus, this
being found by the great Polish.
specialist Ignace Mcjckscnzk to
be the cause of Stalin’s squeaky
voice.
Latest. On returning fo
London by air Sir Snodgrass
Stallack-Tyte, looking bronzed
and fit, stared when asked by a
press representative how the
Moscow trade talks had pro-
ceeded.
“Yur jollay chappais are
rathah out in your geography,
what?” he said. “Ai bettered
par twaice on the links at
Cannes, and the big-game
huntin’ at Tripoli was reallay
top-hole! ”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Canberra
When a feudal baron wished to bring
a district under subjection, his first
thought was to knock out the opposition s
stronghold ; his next, to hold it by means
of fortified towers, battlements, armed
guards, moats and available natural
features. .
The basic factor in keeping a well-paid
political job is to do what the feudal
baron did. You need, as he did, a place
to which you can quietly withdraw with
your friends and subordinates, where you
can make your plans without undue in-
terruption. Canberra serves that purpose
perfectly. _ ,
It is no cosmopolitan metropolis where
individual members are watched person-
ally from the gallery by critical citizens
who can lay their fingers on weaknesses
and injustices and point them out to the
world. The people from outside who go
to Canberra are tourists, mere visitors
who come and go quietly, never staying
long enough to get the feel of the place
and raise their voices in it. ■
The inhabitants are in positions which
depend on law-making, a white-collar
class of form-fillers and letter-writers as
unfitted by inclination and training for
any other job as are the politicians for
any job but politics. With them the head
law-maker is the head man, their boss;
and any law he makes that is a good law
for Canberra is a good law for them.
In a big city they might find other
jobs; but in Canberra, which specialises
in politics, there is nothing else. The
House is the shrine to which they look,
and he who rules there is a little despot.
And being a little despot in a little town,
he becomes as inflated and dictatorial as
little despots in little towns are wont to
become. The trouble is that even though
it is a little town, it is Canberra, the
capital of Australia, and because it is that,
the little despot, given time and the will
to work to that end, can hold the whip
over the lot of us.— Ardizan (Q.).
“Full Employment’ *
The worker’s inability or refusal to
understand the relation between the
amount in his pay-envelope and what is
produced to obtain it is rapidly changing
post-war hopes into the ashes of inflation.
Australia is short of approximately
100,000 workers, a shortage which has
completely changed the employee s atti-
tude to his employer. He feels that, for
the first time, he has the upper hand and,
apparently, he intends to make the most
of it. The employer is partly to blame —
advertisements give such prominence to
amenities arid attractive working condi-
tions that the work itself has become a
minor consideration. This ardent wooing
of the worker has not only increased his
sense of importance, but alsp encourages
him to be for ever changing his job.
Absenteeism, another result of full em-
ployment, has increased since the war.
Workers can absent themselves from
work as often as they please without
losing their jobs.
Workers mistakenly believe that higher
wages and shorter hours mean better
living standards. They cannot see that
money is worth only what labor produces.
If full employment means decrease in pro-
duction, it must ultimately lead to in-
flation. Depression will inevitably follow.
—F. W. C. (Vic.).
S.A. Railway Strike
Although the S.A. Government lately
appointed a new Railways Commissioner,
a capable and widely-experienced officer,
many are wondering why the secretary
of the A-R-U., Mr, Drummond, was
overlooked.
That gentleman, like Mr. J. J.
Brown in Victoria, appears to be
running the show. South Australians
read the other morning that “no trains
would run on Monday,” the announce-
ment coming from the Trades Hall and
not from the Railways Department.
A country guard, who for obvious
reasons remained anonymous, maintained
that “If a secret ballot were held no
stoppage would occur.” He was right,
and the enforcement of a secret ballot
In industrial disputes is Australia’s biggest
problem. If only the P.M. were made
of sterner stuff, like the Victorian
Premier, the country would soon return
to normal. —A. D. (S.A.).
y/hy Be Thrifty?
In the mass, Australians are not a
thrifty people, and if “Labor” continues
to rule they will become less thrifty—
there is little encouragement for them to
save under existing conditions.
Helped by a careful wife I have saved
as much as possible during the last 40
years. We have reared a family of five,
and they have been well fed and reason-
ably well clothed. They were denied
many pleasures which children of less
thrifty parents have enjoyed—expensive
toys, bicycles and other things which we
felt we could not afford.
Not until 15 years ago were we able
to buy our own home. It was a cottage
on which we spent about £2OO making it
more comfortable and more of an orna-
ment to the town. The result of that was
a sharp rise in annual values assessment
with increased municipal rates. Our
nearest neighbor has not spent a penny
on his property during that time and his
assessment has been lowered. That was
how our council “encouraged” me to
save and improve my property.
Now my health has broken down and
I have had to give up work. We have
money in the bank and a few Government
bonds, but not enough to keep us in our
old age. If we live another two or three
years we will have to apply for old-age
pensions, whether we like it or not. In
the meantime we must spend our savings
until we are sufficiently poor to be eligible
for the pension.
Had we been spendthrifts we could
have applied for and obtained pensions
immediately. If, instead of the pensions
system and the wretched means test, we
had a scheme of national insurance with
old-age benefits payable to all, we need
not have spent our little nest-egg to make
us eligible for benefits. In a sense we
are forced to make a gift of our savings
to the Commonwealth Treasury, for we
are relieving that department of the cost
of our pensions while we spend the sur-
plus above the amount a pensioner may
possess in cash.
Where is the incentive to save? — Poor
Mug (Tas.).
Q ar
When normally honest and reputable
citizens hold a law in contempt, it is
surely a sign that the law is at fault. In
the case of pegged prices for second-hand
cars, even Senator Courtice does not deny
that 90 per cent, of used cars sold in
N. S. Wales last year changed hands “on
the black.” This alone shows that the
present price-fixing system is ridiculous
and outdated.
* Unless human nature can be changed
—and the most iron-handed dictator has
not yet managed to do that —price-control
is useless. The only true price is fixed
by the law of supply and demand. But,
if the Government must fix used-car
prices, it should at least do so with an
eye to present values, instead of those
prevailing 10 years ago.
A 12-horsepower 1937 roadster recently
brought me a casual offer of £3OO, which
*If the Musicians Union hears about this he's for it!"
is almost what I paid for it new 11 years
ago. Its pegged price now is approxi-
mately £175. The same car, 1948 model,
sells for £9OO, so the £3OO offer is much
nearer my car’s present-day value than
the £175 allowed by price-control.
That is just one example of a system
full of anomalies. It is time that such a
futile control was removed, or at least
reviewed. At present it serves no usetul
purpose, being merely an irritation to
every honest car-dealer, food for the
blackmarket and a job for a few more
Government employees. — Mac (N.b.W.j.
“Languages”
A colossal amount of time is wasted
on teaching French in schools. No
doubt when French was the Court
language of Europe there were grounds
for including it in “higher education, but
in these days in Australia the time given
to studying it could be used much more
profitably. Almost everyone who passes
through a high school learns French, but
few people of post-school age have even
a working knowledge of it.
For a literary-minded student German
is a better proposition. Once the rudi-
ments of that tongue are mastered there
opens a vast field of literary pleasures
for the reader.
Then, in our commercial age, choice
of a foreign language should depend on
its potential and economic value. As
few Australians are likely to become
commercial travellers to the Continent,
it would be better to look to the East tor
a language to study. There are rich
markets there waiting to be tapped, ana
we should equip our youth with a know-
ledge of Eastern peoples and their
languages. A study of Malay, the lingua
franca of more than 20,000,000 of our
near-neighbors, should pay dividends, to
say nothing of Chinese and Japanese.
Our schools should be awakened to
the futility of fiddling with French verbs
when much more important subjects are
offering. — Ebor (Q.).
Invalids
Social services in 1946-47 cost £62
million and Mr. Chifley estimates the
cost for this year at £77 million.
Instead of paying 375. 6d. a week to
disabled people the Commonwealth
should try to teach them suitable trades
or professions. A little has been done
in this direction —“Rehabilitation of 500
invalid-pensioners had cost the Common-
wealth about £6OOO, but had resulted in
a saving of invalid pensions of about
£40,000 a year,” said Senator McKenna
last May. Why only 500? From those
I have seen nine-tenths could be fitted
into useful employment.
British and American surveys show
that “properly-placed disabled workers
are usually rated higher than able-bodied
workers.” The war gave blind people
jobs in which their sensitive touch en-
abled them to hold their own in compe-
tition with the physically fit.
The infirm would be far happier in
employment than in idleness. 1 know,
because, although I have not walked a
yard for 10 years, my mind and hands
have been fully occupied in farm manage-
ment, bookkeeping and writing. And the
average invalid-pensioner is far better
fitted for employment than I am. — Dis-
abled (N.S.W.).
“Civilisation”
“Hist,” in his defence of civilisation
(B. 21/1 / ’4B), forgot to mention the sequel
to the week-end camp. It went something
like this. We got to the village and the
£lOOO (blackmarket) car, and set off with
our “bought” petrol-tickets for the
luxurious flat.
The “decent meal” consisted of sardines
and bread, as there was a gas strike on.
The drinks “out of the frig.” resolved
themselves into sherry at room tempera-
ture. Our bootlegger had let the g.m.
down badly on the bottled beer (at 3s. a
bottle). Anyhow; the frig, wasn’t work-
ing as the electricity was off. Some strike
or other.
We would have enjoyed the radio had
it been a battery-set like the one at the
shack —we love listening to political
scandals, strike news, horseracing—but
the current was off. Our cheerful evening
in the flat was made bearable by the fact
that, in five days, we could get back to
the shack.
“H.’s” insistence on squalor and smoky
fires prompts me to suggest that he join
a troop of boy scouts and he will soon
master the fire problem. However, in
the shack we have a nice little stove and
lashings of wood so that coal strikes
are only a matter for jest. The movies
don’t make much appeal as the g.m. and
his missus have both long outgrown Hop-
along Cassidy and Donald Duck.
And on the subject of rabbits; “H”
must come up to the shack again and 111
show him the difference between a young
bunny casseroled and an animal three-
weeks old bought for two bob at that
“shop round the corner.” That is if he s
lucky enough to get round before the
shop closes in observance of the 40-hour
week— Nugget (Vic.).
A Citizen Air Force
After five and a half years in the
R.A.A.F., I was discharged an n.c.o. wire-
less operator mechanic. The minimum
qualifications were 22 words per minute
Morse receiving and sending, ability to
repair any service receiver, tune any ser-
vice transmitter and repair the smaller
(low-power) types. In addition, most of
us had a specialised knowledge of some
particular branch of wireless—mine was
direction-finding.
Since my discharge my only contact
with wireless has been switching to an-
other station when I hear the beginning
of a “Spike” Jones record. I doubt if I
have held a soldering-iron or pair of
pliers since I became a civilian. On a
chance visit to a friend’s home recently
I heard Morse. Ten minutes was enough
to prove that 15 words per minute is my
maximum now, and in another couple of
years it will be nil.
Australia spent several hundred pounds
teaching me that trade. In any future
emergency that money will have to be
spent again, whereas a few pounds spent
each year would keep me reasonably pro-
ficient. More important than that is the
fact that it would take at least six months
to retrain me, and a war can be lost in
six months. —T. P. V. (N.S.W.).
“The Colonel”
I didn’t see any Australian reference
to Colonel Robert Rutherford Mc-
Cormick’s latest outburst against the
British. Visiting Tokyo, he said:
The Japanese here are considerably
smaller than the Nisei [American-born
offspring of Japanese parents]. One won-
ders that their war-lords ventured to pit
them against the Americans until one
remembers how they defeated the Russians,
Germans, English, French, Dutch and Aus-
tralians.
Apparently the Colonel and his
Chicago “Tribune” had never heard of
Corregidor.
Having received from General Mc-
Arthur “the most lavish reception ever
accorded an unofficial the
Colonel made front pages with “Japan
was overpopulated and Australia was
just the place to relieve the pressure.”
That’s about as rich as Hirohito’s re-
mark to the Colonel: “The Emperor said
he hoped in the future the relations be-
tween Japan and the U.S. would be as
warm as they have been in the past.”
Thermos (Vic.).
I On the Cheap
To augment his small income and to
gain practical experience a friend of
mine doing a rehab, engineering course
at Perth Tech, took a Government sur-
veying job over the Christmas holidays.
As a first-year engineering student, he was
entitled to £1 a week wages, the meagre-
ness of which is supposed to be offset by
the value of the practical experience. At
least that’s what my friend thought when
he took the job.
He found, instead, that the work con-
sisted mainly of hard, unpleasant manual
labor clearing a line through the heavy
rushes of a boggy swamp. Only 20 per
cent of his time was spent actually
working on surveying instruments, so he
approached the engineer in charge and
asked that' he be paid a wage equivalent
to the value of laboring done—Bo p.c. oi
the basic rate.
The engineer was sympathetic, but
pointed out that he had no power to alter
the rate of pay and, anyway, the student
was under no compulsion to remain on
the job. Quite so ; but it did not alter
the fact that the Government was getting
its) laboring done for £1 a week by en-
gineering sudents, when it would have
had to pay £5 10s. 9d. to a navvy for
the same work. — Torch (W.A.).


The Army
A poster showing a young soldier with
: a map of the world at his feet and the
slogan “Join the Army and See the
World” —that was the strength of the
British Army’s recruiting effort between
the two world wars. And it must have
been effective —I can’t remember any
complaints about lack of recruits. More-
over it was true —with tours of duty in
India, Egypt and the Far East the British
Regular did get a chance of travel and
foreign service. And to the young man
with any guts, travel and escape from
everyday life figure largely in his day-
dreams. Pay is a secondary consideration
so long as he has enough pocket-money.
A smart uniform in which he can cut
a bit of a dash has some attraction. The
youngster who wants to join the Royal
Canadian Mounties or the nowadays-
debunked Foreign Legion* is the type who
will make a good recruit. And there
must still be lads of this type—l know
there were plenty of us 20 years ago. So
I suggest that the Army authorities —or
rather the civilian politicians who dictate
Army policy—think of advertising the
Army as a career of adventure instead of
a good union berth.
Then, having caught their recruit, they
should use a bit more commonsense in
handling them. A satisfied recruit is a
good advertisement. In spite of its
vaunted democratic style the Australian
Army has a lot to learn about handling
men —I speak from experience in the
ranks and as an officer in the Second
A.I.F. One of the first things it might
learn is to trust its men' to do the right
thing, rather than force them to do it
by harsh disciplinary measures.
While serving in England in 1940 with
the sidetracked Sixth Division contingent
I spent some days in barracks with a
British training battalion. I was surprised
to find that at 4.30 p.m. every man not
needed for duty was allowed to leave
'barracks until midnight without a leave-
pass. The evening meal was early to
allow them plenty of time off. When we
Australians later occupied the same
barracks leave was restricted, passes
issued and dismissal made too late to
allow much time out.
We went on the British scale of barrack
equipment* and were given sheets and
pillow-slips and lockers. Some of us
were settled in what were the British
peace-time married soldiers’ quarters —
comfortable little flats with all mod. cons.
(I’m writing of the Colchester barracks.)
Our impressions were that in peace-time
the British soldier was unhampered by
too many restrictions off parade, and was
able to lead a more or less normal town
life with spasms of field manoeuvres until
he was sent overseas on garrison duty.
If a man wants to become a celibate
away from the world and its pitfalls he
can become a monk rather than a soldier.
So why should the Army try to make all
its peace-time recruits monks by putting
them in training-camps up in the bush?
Why not quarter recruits in some com-
fortable barracks in a decent town with
barracks so constructed as to necessitate
the minimum of fatigues? Give them
their initial parade-ground and technical
training there and allow them to lead a
normal life off-duty.
Spells of field training at bush camps
would be enjoyed as a break from
routine. As the recruit becomes a trained
soldier give him time off if no instruc-
tors or equipment are available for
further training. Avoid “keeping the men
occupied” at useless jobs for the sake of
appearance. man has enough brains
to be a soldier'he’s got enough to know
whether he’s doing a worthwhile job or
just “shovelling sand.”
Above all, teach young officers a bit
about handling men. Tell them that they
must earn the respect of their men by
behaving properly themselves, and that
they can obtain obedience by speaking
quietly and decently. Their power as
commanders should lie! in their initiative
and not in their right of veto —“Troops
must not ”
Right through the Second A.I.F. one
could sense that some commanders were
afraid of their men. They always seemed
to be reasoning: “If we give the men too
much leave they won’t come back on
time or they will be too sozzled to be
any good for days.” And because of that
feeling the men often played up as ex-
pected. Commanders saved their faces
by promulgating orders restricting leave,
or beer, or something—orders which
could not be properly enforced and be-
came a farce.
Treat your soldier as you would treat
a decent employee and he won’t let you
down, and if you are shorthanded he may
get some of his mates to work for you
also.—C. R. (N.S.W.).
Gifts for Research
It is impossible to draw a dividing line
between pure science—research work with
the sole object of adding to human
knowledge—and applied science, which
is devoted to solving some particular
problem. Those engaged on the latter
would be hampered at every turn if they
could not turn to the former for informa-
tion.
In the S.A. Museum, H. H. 'Womersley
de ™ted 15 years t 0 the stud Y of mites,
and has become the world’s leading
"Our cow Would like you to do something about this account, madam;
she’s becoming very discontented."
authority on the subject. When our
troops in the Pacific fell casualties to
that mite-borne disease scrub typhus, the
Allied Medical Services hastily co-opted
the services of Womersley. He was the
only man who could tell them what they
needed to know.
In the same museum another man
made his life’s hobby a study of the
most primitive of all moths. It was done
in his own time, and even when serving
with the R.A.A.F. he spent most of his
rest-days climbing mountains to study the
insects, which live and breed only at high
altitudes. In Paraguay, American research-
workers investigating problems connected
with the growing of corn as a crop are
sending to that man for information,
again because he is the only person who
can supply it.
In Australia pure science is hampered
by lack of money and often left to men
who devote their own time to it, without
fee or reward. Once private individuals
could donate money for this purpose, but
savage taxation has dried up those sources
of revenue. Money given or bequeathed to
a recognised charity or university escapes
income tax and probate duty; but dona-
tions or bequests to an art gallery,
museum, public library or any research
work outside; a university are subject to
tax or probate.
According to socialist Governments,
their system is the perfect one, with no
need for private donatiqns because a
benevolent State takes care of everything.
In practice, no form of Government
does because the inspiration is lacking.
Government departments can breed
grubs unlimited in the form of regula-
tions, restrictions and obstructions, but
never the butterfly of inspiration.
It is the inspiration of a private indi-
vidual or group which founds a Waite
Institute, Kuitpo Colony, Fairbridge
Farm Schools, Felton Bequest, Archibald
Prize and similar things. The greatest
humanitarian establishment in the world,
the International Red Cross, sprang from
the splendid vision of one man. What
Government can cjaim to have founded
anything to compare with the least of
these?
The Federal Opposition should under-
take, as soon as it is returned, to ensure
that all gifts or bequests to art, literature,
museums and pure science shall be free
of both income tax and probate duty.—
H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
“Reffos” or Migrants?
The present inclination to brand any
person from almost any other part of
the world as a'“reffo” will hurt a lot of
sensitive people and encourage those
foreign colonies which, in other countries,
have become the curse of large-scale
migration. In Australia we want assimi-
lation, not a series of Italian, Jewish,
German, Maltese or Baltic quarters.
The term “reffo” cannot be ap-
plied to European migrants now com-
ing to Australia. They are settlers
seeking a new land, a new opportunity,
a new way of life. If they are “reffos,”
then so were the Irish, Scottish, German
and Italian settlers who came here dur-
ing the last 100 years. If these Baits and
others are “reffos,” then so is every Aus-
tralian who leaves his own country to
settle in another. However tempting it
may be to picture a stream of Australian
refugees fleeing from Mr. Chifley, imagine
the indignation if the suggestion were
made that Australian “reffos” were
thronging Broadway or the streets of
Paris.
True, a refugee class came to Australia
before and during the war, but it is also
worth remembering that the children of
these people are now well-settled in Aus-
tralian schools and in some cases carry-
ing off high honors. They are on the
way towards becoming Australians, and
no mere stupid label should halt the
process.
It’s as well to be clear-sighted and
honest about these things. We are not
opening our doors to new peoples in a
spirit of undiluted charity and good-
heartedness. We’re doing it because the
war showed conclusively the suicidal
tendencies inherent in the Australian
people as a race. Not only from a mili-
tary viewpoint, but for our continued
racial survival big and urgent move-
ments of population have become essen-
tial to Australia’s future. If Australian
women have decided not to have large
families arpr kind of statesmanship
worth the name must take immediate
steps to make up the deficit.
“Reffo” as a word is a war-legacy with
no peace-time meaning except a harm-
ful one. It belongs distinctively to a
small class which has nothing in com-
mon with the Poles, Balts and other
Europeans of first-class stock now com-
ing in a growing stream to Australia.
Their capital is youth, eagerness, physi-
cal strength and a readiness to become
good Australians. — Bonegilla (N.S.W.).
Youth
My grandmother has been telling me
what devils she and my great-aunt were
when they were girls, and some of the
capers that my grandfather used to get up
to as a lad. She added t that her parents
were thoroughly convinced that she and
all the rest of the “young things” were
going to the dogs fast. Yet I doubt if
you could find any better citizens than
the three of them.
When I was ’teen age I had the same
trouble, as did all my contemporaries.
We were all flighty, unreliable and shift-
less. There were remarks passed about
our morality, or lack of it, and we were
all confirmed drunkards.
The same thing is now being said about
the modern ’teenager. It would be a
good thing if some of these critics re-
membered their own youth and some of
the things that were said about them. —
J. F. P. (Q.).
Root of the Matter
Life-assurance concerns should be
prohibited from entering into assurance
contracts subject to proof of age being
furnished before payment of claims. I
have acted for many clients in these
matters, and the difficulties of meeting the
companies’ rigid requirements have been
considerable and have caused delay
before settlement. Particularly does this
apply to people of European birth whose
records have been destroyed by two
world wars. Naturally, companies must
be satisfied regarding the age of the pro-
ponent, but surely evidence could be re-
quired before the policy is issued. Any
difficulties a person may have in proving
his age or identity during his lifetime are
not to be compared with the problems
facing his executor or solicitor after his
death.—T. R. (N.S.W.).
According to A.B.C. news sessions, the
Australian “Government” has decided to
award scholarships to the tune of £5OOO a
year to students from India, Pakistan,
Burma, Malaya, Siam, the Philippines,
China and, of course, Indonesia. The
scholarships will be tenable at Australian
centres of learning. Dr. Evatt’s hand is
behind it, of course, and while I don’t
think for a moment that the doctor be-
lieves the gesture will raise his stocks at
U.N.0., I must maintain that, if my taxa-
tion is to be spent on the spread of learn-
ing, it should be used to send Australians
abroad rather than on bringing anyone
here.— Youanmi (Vic.).
Extract from an authoritative overseas
sugar journal:
According to a recent report from the Gov-
ernment Botanic Gardens, Buitenzorg, Java, the
archives and library of the Experimental Station
for Sugar Cane at Pasoeroean, East Java, have,
been totally destroyed by order of the Indo-
nesian Republican authorities. The planned
and wilful destruction of the unparalleled files
of this important institution, famous for its
agricultural, technical and chemical research
work, causes an immeasurable and irreplaceable
loss to the science of sugar-cane cultivation
and processing in general and to the Java
sugar industry in particular. The most de-
tailed data relating to hybrid cane species, plants
diseases and plant-disease-resistant strains, test
plantings, soil-research conservation and irri-
gation, available anywhere in the world, were
completely destroyed.
No comment needed. — Thap (Q.).
The statement attributed to the N. S.
Wales secretary of the F.E.D.F.A.—that
“the time was timely to strike because
coal stocks were at bedrock and if the
men came out at once the strike would
not last a week and they would be back
with all fheir demands satisfied” —was a
barefaced admission of recourse to jungle
law. I know miners had a rough spin
in the bad old days, but times and con-
ditions have changed, and it is intolerable
that 100 men can hold a whole country
up at gun-point because they do not get
all they demand before an established
Arbitration Court. There is only one
answer to jungle law, and Victorian
Premier Hollway has demonstrated it. —-
S. A. O. (N.S.W.).
Comparative results between Sydney
Uni. and the Mildura branch of the Mel-
bourne body show that 65 per cent, of
the “country” students were successful
compared with 35 per cent, in Sydney.
Authority is undecided whether Mildura’s
success js due to less overcrowding, better
facilities and teaching or just the carefree,
casual open-air life. At any rate the
Chancellor of Melbourne Uni. (Sir
Charles Lowe) is tickled pink with the
Mildura results. He’s probably wishing
that he could transfer the whole university
to the country. — Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
For months wharf-laborers on Auck-
land’s wharves have enjoyed a system of
“spelling,” whereby gangs work for two
hours then sit down for two hours,
their places at the slings being taken by
a second gang. But the men of the first
gang are paid for their two-hours sit-
down. This arrangement, besides giving
occasion for much trouser-patching,
means that costs are doubled to steve-
dores. Another result is that the union
is now generally referred to as the Back-
siders’ Union. — M. Daly (M.L.).
I regret to note among Mr. Ward’s
more gentlemanly public statements the
announcement that the 45,000 people who
have already subfnitted applications for
new motor vehicles must apply again on
a fresh form and add a stat. declaration.
That means a waste of 90,000 sheets of
paper. What’s happened to the old ap-
plications? Lost or inextricably tangled
in red-tape?—C. G. I. (N.S.W.).
In the last “Live Stock Bulletin,” a
dairy paper meant for our bucolic minds,
I read a brief letter which is worth quot-
ing:—
Our cows and pigs brought Us in £3037
this year and we produced 6000 bags of
grain for market in addition, but taxation
makes me wonder why my family and I
should work so hard when so many in the
cities work only 40 hours a week.
That is a dangerous thought, but the
trouble is many of us -farmers are be-
ginning to think the same way. We are
realising that the more we produce the
heavier we’re taxed, and the more taxa-
tion we pay the more reckless become
the spendthrifts at Canberra. — Chook
(Q-).
With most hospitals in de'bt and a
harassed public facing constant appeals
on their behalf, the War Nurses’
Memorial project now being fostered in
Victoria with the object of raising
£250,000, largely by a “Queen competi-
tion,” appears an unnecessary additional
burden. Why can’t recognition of our
war nurses be incorporated in any official
war memorial? — Plain Australian
»(Vic.).
Isn’t it time that 10s. 6d. was fixed
as the price for an ordinary visit to the
doctor, no matter what rent he might
be paying for his rooms? If a medico
has two surgeries, one in an industrial
area and the other in a wall-to-wall car-
pet suburb, he gets away with charging
half a guinea in the first and a guinea
in the second. His advice doesn’t —or
shouldn’t —change according to the place
and his treatments wouldn’t vary. So
the extra half-guinea is obviously for the
privilege of treading on his carpet, sitting
in an armchair instead of on a plain
chair, and having an impressive book-
case as part of the scenefy. Why? A
candy costs the same in a slum
shop as in a modern chrome-plated em-
porium.—Eve Merritt (N.S.W.).


' n n
2
•:::v
’iMtAMimiw
mm
m
. 1 0V£ R AUSmiM
M AAft> WAV B£YOM£>iT~
r MARS MACHINE TOOLS SERVE
INDUSTRIES LARGE AND SMALL
In Sydney and in Shanghai—in Melbourne and in
Madras—in Calcutta and in Capetown—and Ln. every
part of the Southern Hemisphere where the wheels of
industry turn—Mars Machine Tools are in ever-increasing
demand.
II you need a Lathe, Milling Machine.
Shaper. Planer, Radial Drill, or Boring Mill
gel lull details trom the agents mentioned
below or irons the manufacturers.
3
I—THE "MARS" HIGH SPEED
PLANER —Designed for the pre-
cision workshop the "Mars"
Planer is of a proved design and
capable of obtaining maximum
output from high-speed cutting
tools.
2 THE "MARS" SCINCH
LATHE—"The little GIANT of the
lathe world." With ample remov
able gap. Surfacing, Sliding and
Screw Cutting.
3—THE "MARS" HEAVY DUTY
RADIAL DRILL—AII gear drive,
power and hand feed; 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse; 4ft.
6in. arm.
iPIP
■' .r. - .
A,
PS?
5
&
■
wmm
4
m
Sole Queensland
Distributors for
mm
:
SERVIAN
MACHINE
TOOLS
m
4 THE "MARS" No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER Rapid
Traverse in all directions. Selective speeds and Feeds.
Totally built-in motor.
5 THE "MARS" 10-INCH GAP BED LATHE—A heavy
duty precision lathe with ample removable gap; 18 speeds.
Surfacing. Sliding and Screw Cutting.
I
Licensed Manufacturers in Queensland
of
“MEEHANITE” METALS
Distinctive features
of all ' MARS*
MACHINE TOOLS
ACCURACY—BuiIt to recognised
and certified standards oi occur
acy. BALANCE—AII necessary re-
volving parts are Dynamically
Balanced, FINISH—AII surfaces are
Machine Ground. MATERIALS—
Finest Matured High Test Alloy
Castings throughout. SMOOTH
RUNNING—AII Gear Teeth are
generated. VERSATILITY , All
lathes have generous Detachable
Gap Bridge. "MARS" Lathe Lead
Screws are cut from a certified and
tested Master Lead Screw,
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGES!. VALLEY BRISBANE
_ VICTORIA- Servian Machine Tools (Ausl.) 343 a
All details and illustrated literature fronv.-N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Ply. Ltd l Charles DavisLld.. Elizabeth Street. Hobart. N.Z.: Motor Specia-
Sydney Road, Brunswick. Melbourne. W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd.. ■ PROVINCE- R S Mehta & Co. Ltd.. Alii Chambers. Medows Street,
lities Ltd.. Anzac Avenue. Auckland. CALCUTTA: Ross Neil & Sons. Chowringhee Road. BOMBAY PHUVI • • •
Fort Bombay. HONGKONG and SHANGHAI: The East Asiatic Co. Ltd.
J. & O S. Ad'
