

CHATEAU TANUNDA BRAF
A PRODUCT OF THE
SSa
m ■
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 69—No. 3544
Wednesday, January 14, 1948
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE HAUNTED RUINS OF DUNTULM, IN THE STORIED ISLE OF SKYE
CJKYE, 643 square miles in area, is a large island separated from
western Scotland by the narrow channel. Skye was
the stronghold of the Macleods and the Macdonalds, and, while
the former made Dunvegan their castle, the Macdonald’s castle
was' Duntulm before they lived at Armadale. Near Duntulm is the
grave of Flora Macdonald, the girl who by her wit and courage
took Prince Charlie from danger in the Outer Islands to the safety
of her kinsman’s house at Kingsburgh. It was at Kingsburgh that
Charles for the first time in many nights slept between sheets, and
one of these, carefully preserved, later became Flora Macdonald’s
shroud when she was buried almost under the shadow of Duntulm
Castle. Set high on a cliff overlooking the sea is the castle’s' situa-
tion, out of which came the tragedy that closed the Macdonald’s
stay witlun its walls. From one of the high windows a nursemaid,
playing-with a little Macdonald, let the child tall, and the grieving
family abandoned the ancestral castle, which has been allowed to
crumble ever since.


Learn ;
Story
of HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovi obligation, pour New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write ior Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. 1 ’
ily Name
II;; Address
SB. 248“. AGE
The Red Page
"SALMAGUNDI."
If there is any complaint to be made
against Joyce Conyngham Green’s Sal-
magundi (Dent) it is that there is a bit
too much morris-dancing, and gathering
nuts in May and that sort of thing. Too
many of the 'quaint old customs of the
English countryside.
There is, it is true, some interesting and
amusing folk-lore in this unusual diary—
“ Pop-ladies” for instance:
Some ancient customs do survive in this
county [Hertfordshire] but not many. One
is the traditional eating of “pop-ladies”
in St. Albans on New Year’s Day. A pop-
lady is a yeast bun, brown, spiced and
shining, with a round head, currant eyes,
a semicircular smile, two “arms” repre-
sented by cuts in the body, and two legs.
By title a female, but in appearance de-
cidedly gentlemanly: and often, through
tire vagaries of the application of heat Jo
dough, jovial and bibulous in expression
I think —and my guess is as good as the
next —that the pop-ladies are a relic of the
Roman occupation of Britain; for St.
Albans was, as Verulamium, a large Roman
settlement, and the Romans are known to
have eaten paste or dough figures in con-
nection with their New Year ceremonies.
But one can have a surfeit even of
pop-ladies. Though some of the folk-
lore is unfamiliar, and freshly presented,
much of it is hackneyed—the notes on
St. Valentine’s Day, for instance' —and
the author gives a general impression of
a conscientious rather than a lively in-
terest in such matters. Perhaps it is just
that Hertfordshire is a long way from
Australia, and that “dancers wearing
garlands of St. John’s wort, motherwort,
vervain, mugwort or St. John’s plant, and
carrying bunches of similar herbs, all re-
puted to protect the wearers against
witchcraft, demonic possession or evil
spirits,” seem ineffably remote.
For all that. Salmagundi is a charming
and a fascinating book. Whatever one
may think of the efficacy of mugwort as
a remedy against witchcraft, there is no-
thing remote about a recipe for garlic
butter or orange cheese. And Shak-
speare’s witches, upon whom Miss
Conyngham Green provides a commen-
tary that could be read with profit by
all producers of “Macbeth,” have never
yet been exorcised by vervain, St. John’s
wort or motherwort from the world’s im-
passioned interest: —
What a pity it is that the witches in
“Macbeth” are so frequently overfantas-
ticated as to be ridiculous. The scenes
in which they appear are turned into an
arty-crafty romp, with eldritch skirtings
and caterwaulings that are a cross between
a cats’ night out and a conclave of demented
bagpipers. To my mind the play would
gain immeasurably if the witches were cast
as apparently normal women, withered and
gipsyish, in barbaric clothes; with large
cloaks, so designed that as the lightning
or the smoke from the cauldron appears
and vanishes the soothsayers can swirl the
cloaks around themselves and melt into, or
stand out from, the background.
I feel that if the audience could see
Macbeth confronted by credible hags,
having a sinister spiritual twist towards
abnormality, engaged in driving him to his
doom with deliberate, devilish, set purpose;
putting the sickening ingredients into the
cauldron with the unimpassioned precision
of a modern chemist using a scientific
formula —in short, if the audience could
see a man and his wife driven to evil by
the witches playing on their credulity and
ambition, these scenes, which are often so
impossible and even funny, could be quite
flesh-chilling.
The author has a good deal to say
about plays and about books. She ex-
amines the sources of Dombey and Son ;
she gives some diverting accounts of
village theatricals —notably a love scene
between a very willing lady and an ex-
tremely frigid and correct gentleman—
and she describes the Malvern Festival,
where she appears to be at least on
nodding terms with John Drinkwater,
Laura Knight, H. I. Hsiung, James Bridie
and J. B. Priestley. Priestley’s “Music at
Night;” first performed at the festival,
plunged the author “into unplumbed
depths of horrid gloom,” and she records:
I felt unequal to going into the Festival
Club to revel. The road from the theatre
winds up a little hill. A sudden impulse
made me turn at the top and look back.
There behind me was a dreary procession
of playgoers, heads bowed, crawling home
as if the cares of the world were too much,
too much; all silent, and all grim.
From such scenes of glory or gloom
Miss Conyngham Green turns, alas, to
St. Swithin’s Day, the Lammas loaf-mass
and the custom of the Mohammedans of
eating hoboob on the tenth day of the
first month of their New Year. But
then a few pages further on (observations
of toads, squirrels and birds make some
of her most attractive chapters) she is
describing an impressive and decorative
array of edible fungi, of immediate in-
terest to nature-lovers and intending sui-
cides. And then (the diary covers a war
year but, apart from discreet references
to “bumps and crashes” and some notes
on the terror inflicted on the populace
by butchers, grocers and fishmongers—
to say nothing of tobacconists —there are
few references to hostilities) there follow
some anecdotes of the first days of the
blitz, of almost legendary quality:
Official instructions to people without
air-raid shelters had been to take to the
woods on the sounding of the alert. The
Fordham-Fordhams, who were in this posi-
tion, had hustled Tony’s grandmother of
eighty-plus out of her bed and into her
clothes and the depths of the nearest
spinney without explanation, in the small *
hours of Monday morning. After fifteen
minutes of being seated on a craggy log
in the dark, the dear old soul, who had
not only not heard the siren but had not
yet grasped that there was a war on, re-
marked patiently but plaintively: “I don’t
know what you brought me out here to
see, but I can’t see anything.”
St. S within, mugwort, Shakspeare,
Priestley, edible fungi, fishmongers and
the Fordham-Fordhams —there are bits of
everything in this book. That is its
charm. It is an idle book for an idle
hour, by a witty and intelligent diarist
who is, not unnaturally, “dissatisfied with
ray own century” and who turns to the
countryside, to books and to antiquity
not so much for consolation as for life;
something vital, sensible and permanent
ip the midst of the lunacies of war. The
title. Salmagundi, describes the book un-
expectedly well, for it is the old name for
hors d’ceuvres . . . bits of everything, with
a flavor.
Bible and Tommy gun.
lan Morrison’s Grandfather Long Legs
(Faber) is a portrait of one of the most
remarkable men brought into prominence
by the late war —Major H. P. Seagrim,
who, when the Japanese invaded Burma,
decided to stay with his beloved Karen
tribesmen behind the Japanese lines,
organising sabotage and “intelligence”
and preparing for an uprising when the
British returned. Seagrim was one of
those extremely dangerous gentlemen,
surely descendants of Cromwell’s Iron-
sides, who were to be found surprisingly
often and in surprisingly high places
during the war, carrying a Bible in one
hand and a tommygun in the other:
On December 5 he arrived at Chawido,
the small village near Pyagawpu, where
Ta Roe was now living. He was bare-
footed and bearded, thin and haggard, but
in great spirits. He was wearing the Karen
tunic which he always wore in the hills.
He had a tommygun and pistol but no
other possessions besides his Bible and a
blanket, no spare clothes, no mosquito-
net.
Morrison gives the impression that the
war really mattered less to Seagrim than
his discovery or rediscovery of Christi-
anity. He was the son of a Norfolk
vicar and came from a family with a
strong military tradition (a brother, Derek
Seagrim, incidentally, was awarded a
posthumous V.C. for his part in the
assault on the Mareth Line), and when the
war broke out and he was isolated in the
Karen hills his religious and his military
capacity seemed to expand and flower
simultaneously. The publishers describe
him as “a strange, saintly character,” and
certainly he and his Karen tribesmen —
a British officer and his guerrillas—make
an unconventional picture;
The Karens tried to get English books
for Seagrim, and a Karen educational officer
in Nyaunglebin sent him up a Collected
Works of Shakspeare, Sir San C. Po’s
Burma and the Karens, Smeaton’s Loyal
Karens of Burma and two or three Baptist
theological works. But the Bible was his
great standby. He later told a Karen
friend that during his time in the hills
he had read it right through, from cover to
cover, twelve times.
Every evening, before turning in, they
had prayers around the fire. Seagrim would
read a passage from the Bible in English,
expound it to the Karen boys in Burmese,
and then they would say the Lord’s Prayer.
With Thra May Sha and Thra Kyaw Lay
he often discussed religious themes. He
would sometimes write out passages from
the Bible, give them to these Karen pastors,
ask them to think about them and, on their
next visit, to give him their interpretations.
He once amused Thra May Sha by point-
ing out a passage in the Old Testament
which referred to the impending destruction
of a large number of captains. He him-
self, he said, had fortunately been given
the temporary rank of major, so he ought*
to be quite safe.
Seagrim was executed by the Japanese.
He eluded capture till March, 1944, and
then, to save his Karen protectors from
persecution and torture, voluntarily sur-
rendered. He was promised honorable
treatment as a prisoner of war. The
Japanese kept him for a while in the
filthy and crowded cells of the New Law
Courts at Rangoon, then moved him to
another jail outside Rangoon, con-
demned him to death on instructions
from the War Office in Tokyo, and shot
him with seven of his Karen followers
and buried them in a common grave. He
had hoped, if he survived the war, to
leave the Army and become a missionary
among the Karen people.
Morrison tells his story well. Grand-
father Long Legs (that was the people’s
nickname for Seagrim) is not a great work
of literature, nor a great biography, but
it is clear, concise and, like Morrison’s
book on the Malayan compaign, well-
balanced. Some of its most interesting
chapters are those on the history and
life of the Karens—a curious people,
thought to be of Chinese origin, who
worsmpped a deity named Y’wa (obvi-
ously resembling the word Jahveh or
Jehovah) and who, having a tradition that
a white man would return to them with
a lost '“golden book,” were readily con-
verted to Christianity by American
Baptist missionaries. Morrison raises,
incidentally, the question of their future
—a minority loyal to the British and
sometimes maltreated by the Burmese —
but, as he says, that problem will now
have to be settled by the Burmese and
the Karens.
Another extremely interesting chapter
describes Seagrim’s dramatic meeting
with Corporal Ras Pagani—English in
spite of his Italian name—who, after
being taken prisoner in Malaya, was sent
to the Burma-Siam Railway and escaped
into the jungle. As an appendix Morrison
prints Pagani’s own account of his adven-
tures.
Morrison’s comparison of Seagrim with
Lawrence of Arabia is not altogether apt,
for, up to the time of his surrender and
execution, though British and Karen
agents and radio-operators had been
dropped by parachute from India (Major
Nimmo and Captain McCrindle were
both killed within a few months of con-
tacting Seagrim), there had been no
military action by the tribesmen com-
parable to Lawrence’s revolt in the desert.
Nevertheless, Seagrim left a legend in
Burma, and when the British returned
his work bore fruit: “Apart from the
delay imposed on the 15th Japanese
Division which, it might be argued, had
a decisive bearing on the Burma cam-
paign, the Karen levies that summer of
1945 killed at least 12,500 Japanese.”
A Two-Legged Tripod.
One of the stock themes of Australian
poetry and balladry is the contrast be-
tween city and country. The poet is im-
prisoned in the city, afflicted by trams,
newsboys, neighbors or pot-plants and
he longs to be far away where there are
only crows, gum-trees and bulldog-ants.
There is an essentially similar pattern of
contrasts in Frederick T. Macartney’s
oddly-titled Tripod for Homeward In-
cense (Angus and Robertson).
The setting is different: Mr. Macartney,
or, rather, his hero, is exiled in China,
imprisoned in eternal tranquillity: —
Where silence only half believes
The flutter of birds beneath the eaves,
A cricket’s chirrup, or much less
The outer myriad timelessness
Placating this old country’s throng
To murmurs of a vast singsong,
Till heaven and earth, the yin and yang,
Hushed cymbals, meet, and cease to clang.
And, being an Australian, the exile is
haunted by contrasting pictures of his
native land; —
I doze in memories of my own land,
not fulfilled as this,
With its indiscriminate patience...,
Red-gums, camped around pools of the
shallow creek-bed,
flesh-smooth to their creasing armpits....
Choughs are wailing there,
ghosts of bushfires, ember-eyed.
But the principle of contrast remains
the same. It is a pattern that rarely
makes for poetry of the highest order.
In the first place, the mere discovery that
the surface of the earth in one place is
different from the surface somewhere
else is not that kind of visionary revela-
tion which suddenly finds unearthly truth
in nature. The usual effect, indeed, of the
clash of city and bush scenes is that
neither is satisfactorily painted. Mr.
Macartney may be said to paint China
and Australia well enough, but the clash,
as an inartistic jarring, remains, especi-
ally as in this case the contrast is not
only violent in scene, but violent in
metre: a drop from poetry to something
barely distinguishable from prose.
Fundamentally, the cause of the in-
feriority of the city-and-bush poems is
an underlying insincerity. The poet may
well believe that he wants to go bush —
but why doesn’t he? There may be a
score of difficulties in his way ; but un-
less he is, like Wilde in “The Ballad of
Reading Gaol,” literally in prison, one
suspects that he is not telling the final
truth. If, with the passionate intensity
that makes poetry, he wanted to leave
the city he could do so. Probably he
doesn’t really—with his whole being—
want to go at all. So his poem, though
it may nicely express a popular senti-
ment, is emotionally and therefore poetic-
ally of a secondary order. There is,
perhaps, a comparable unconscious
artistic insincerity in Tripod for Home-
ward Incense.
The exile, who is in love with a Chinese
girl, but decides in the end to return to
Australia, is only lightly sketched and
one could not decide, on the evidence,
whether he is really doing what he wants
to do or not. But it does seem clear that
Mr. Macartney doesn’t wish to write
about Australia ; not in this poem; not
passionately, not finally, not from the
deepest springs of his inspiration. The
evidence for this is simply that the
Chinese sections, though literary in in-
spiration, are always pleasant and some-
times exquisite:
Old Father Yi, whose thoughts were swans
Floating upon his lUied mind —
whereas the Australian scenes always
seem forced:
Shall such an improvident homeland as mine,
so long waiting, enduring,
teach us no more than endurance?
•What of that hard, bare splendor
of the -inland, inviolable always?
How few have known its mordant brightness,
the utter refusal
of its tortured secrecy.
The sentiments of the Australian sec-
tions are, of course, admirable, and one
may well sympathise with Mr. Macart-
ney’s conscious desire to write about Aus-
tralia when his subconscious mind is
trying to make him write about China.
The change from a melodious to a crude
technique may be deliberate, an attempt
to show metrically as well as in imagery
the comparative harshness of Australia.
Yet the impression remains that if the
writer or his hero had felt as deeply, in
the present poem, and in a poetic way,
about Australia as they do about China,
the Australian sections would have sung
themselves into form and melody as have
the others. Certainly it is the Chinese
sections which one would learn by heart
—and some of the lines are worth mem-
orising ; which may be taken as a high
compliment. Do they not, then, spring
from the heart of Mr. Macartney’s in-
spiration?
Mr. Macartney’s talent is essentially
literary and decorative. At a certain dis-
tance, and probably from similarity of
mind, without imitation, he follows Hugh
McCrae. Tripod for Homeward Incense
is very much like The Mimshi Maiden--
a similar excursion into a China of fantasy
for an image of delicacy and grace. In
an age where realism and nationalism are
fashionable in verse, it may seem re-
mote*; but delicacy and grace, whatever
mask they wear, are eternal values. In
any period Mr. Macartney’s Chinese
friend would be worth knowing:
She slips from me across an edge
Of ebony, as from a ledge
Of polished rock-drops down the tall
Slim body of a waterfall.
With its Australian leg wobbly, and
better amputated, the tripod can hardly
be called a complete success; but the
two-legged tripod that remains is quite
enough to engage the attention of con-
noisseurs with a taste for what is slight,
fine and charming.
Reviewed Briefly.
Ballet Crusade: Valentin Zeglovsky
(Reed and Harris; Robertson and Mul-
lens). The author, bom in the Ukraine,
came to Australia with the De Basils.
The book is his life story, disjointed in
style but packed with interesting material,
ranging from bear-baiting to revolution,
from training at the Riga Opera House to
world travels with the big ballet com-
panies. The publishers, presumably suf-
fering from post-war shortages, have
printed the book sometimes on green
paper, sometimes on pink, off-white and
blue, which, with a yellow dust-jacket,
gives it the not inappropriate appearance
of a rainbow.
* * ♦ *
Additions to Dents’ “Master Musicians”
series are: Ravel, by Norman Demuth ;
and Bach, by Eve Mary and Sydney
Grew.
* * * *
The Romance of Rhodesia: Prof.
Ardaser Sorabjee N. Wadia, M.A, (Dent).
Illustrated account of a sightseeing tour.
The author appears to have been dis-
appointed in African native children and
records of a school at Umtali: “Such
dull-witted children I have never come
across anywhere in the world, except once
when visiting the Government Reserva-
tion of Australian Aborigines at La Per-
ouse in New South Wales,”
* * * 0
Farmers, Bushrangers and Business-
men : Alleged to be written by “B. Hall,”
with an introduction by J. A. L. Gunn
(Currawong). A discussion on income-
tax problems, it is a successor to “E.
Kellie’s” / Can Get It For You Tax Free,
and the publishers say it “includes tax-
saving points not covered in Mr. Kellie’s
book, and also explains concessions made
to taxpayers in 1947.” Mr. Hall’s humor
may be painful to refined eyes, but it is
not more painful than an income-tax
form —or not much more —and those who
can bear to read either may find him
useful.


Anthony Horderns’
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
my-.
Uh
m
r CA
Ok
r
f/j
A/w/- i/f/v ///<£ Comfort
m
<x
(duj not? OamktiC wmujS bi/cuxdttOTv,
q x . jou. cent do uouA,
Work or Sport
Aote, r
IV
7 V
3
v'
f/tN
3J*
<3
?/
\
a«v
:WS
N
%
V
4
m
m
TOP
Men’s Brown-grained Bowling
Shoes, with red rubber soles, in
full and half sizes. Price, 33/3
LEFT
Dr. Brummel’s Health Shoes, in
Tan or Black, fitted with special
steel Arch Brace and Cushion
Heel. The Comfort Shoe, in full
and half sizes. Price .... 38/3
BIGHT
Plexmastpr Golf Shoes, brown
grained leather, flexible non-slip
rubber soles, full and half sizes.
Price .. 33/3
LEFT
Men’s High-grade Shoes, in Black
Glace Kid and Box Calf, medium
or wide fittings, full and half
sizes. Price 33/6
RIGHT
Men’s Suede Shoes for Golf or
Leisure, flex non-slip rubber
soles, in Brown, Grey and Bur-
gundy. Full and half sizes.
Price 25/6
# Men’s Shoe Dept.,
Ground Floor , George St.
rderns
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night
Box 2712 Q G.P.0., Sydney
me
7255
m
m
4
>
U-Y
4V
LEFT
Brown
sewn
hours,
Price
Suede Buckle Shoes, flex
soles, ideal for leisure
full and half sizes.
25/10


weet and Dry
n
Some want them Sweet, and some want
them Dry. but everyone wants Cinzano
as the basis of good cocktails, Cinzano
sweet or dry, the world’s best Vermouths!
ĥ
CINZANO k
v Et»MOUTH f
■JSRMOWtS-,|
Wm
mi
■i
Q
I
Airway Oases, in woven-
striped, waterproofed
canvas with leather-bound
edges, are made for flying.
The supply is limited
... but increasing!
T#
» 3
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
h
Steam power is the key
to man’s mastery of the vast powers of nature.
Steam is harnessed to the will of man by Steel
Tubes. In modern Water Tube boilers, the
steam is generated and super-heated.
Through Steel Tubes it is conveyed
to the cylinders or turbines that
translate its potential to factual
power. The making of Steel Tubes
to withstand pressure and heat, the
calculations of the bends, reductions
and expansions of these Tubes and
the design and construction
joints that will carry
high pressures are
among the highly
important tasks
that Stewarts and
Lloyds undertake
to further the
industrial growth
of Australia.
Q
of
SSS
' ■■ ■ S
; i
v-/>
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
S.L. 47
CMEP
Newcastle and Sydney, New
South Wales: Melbourne, Vic-
toria: Brisbane and Rock-
hampton, Queensland: Perth
and Fremantle, Western Aus-
tralia: Hobart and Launceston,
Tasmania: Stqwarts and Lloyds
(South Australia) Ltd., Kil-
burn, South Australia.
TH4>
4>
3x =
A
9
V
-■4
IHZ
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is
subject to accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of
administration and uninterrupted attention to your estate and
your beneficiaries are of paramount importance. Both can be
positively assured by appointing this Company your sole
Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee.
An interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns, Joseph Mitchell, P. T. W. Black, Frederick
Ewen Loxton, Eric Priestley Lee.
Manager: L. S. Parker. Secretary: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
• TRUSTEE • AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
’PHONE: BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
&
CONTINENTAL TYPE
CHEESE
carnerne***
tS&luyufue.
/UMBURGBR CHEESE 7
c
GORGONZOLA
Gorgonzola, that rich, buttery, soft
eating cheese which was once im-
ported from Europe at great cost, is
now made very successfully at Kemp-
sey by the Macleay River Co-operative
Dairy Co. Ltd. and is sold under the
Allowrie Brand.
Many overseas visitors have tasted
this cheese and pronounce it excellent
and full of flavour and typically con-
tinental.
You should try this cheese at your
favourite grocer or provision store—
Allowrie Gorgonzola, tasty, rich, satis-
fying.
The Allowrie factories make many
other continental-type cheeses, each
according to the original formula
of the country of origin. LIMBURGER
and CAMEMBERT are equally good.
Obtainable at Grocers, Provision Stores
and High-class Delicatessen.
Manufactured by Macleay River Co-op. Dairying Co., Dtd.
Distributed by Producers Co-op. Distributing Society, Ltd. M 4681.
Service Department.
Wants.
To buy copy of The Golden Bough
by James Frazer. —4185.
To buy works of Scottish writer
Neil Munro. —4184.
To buy copy of Flying Doctor
Calling by Ernestine Hill, and The
Giraffe’s Uncle by Les Robinson. —
4186.
Information Sought.
Details about William Buckley, who
lived with the blacks ?
He was, born at Macclesfield, Eng-
land, in 1780, and at an early age
enlisted in the army. For an act of
mutiny he was transported to Aus-
tralia in H.M.S. Calcutta, with the
convict party which landed at Port
Phillip under Collins in 1803. Buckley
and two other convicts escaped into
the bush, taking only a gun and a
few cooking vessels. His two com-
panions perished, and Buckley fell in
with a party of blacks. He lived with
them, being well cared for and learn-
ing the language, until discovered by
Batman, the founder of Melbourne,
in 1835, when he acted as interpreter
between the settlers and his friends
the natives. He was given a free
pardon and a small pension, and
settled in Hobart, where he died
February 2, 1856.
* * * *
What were the earliest discoveries
of coal in N.S.W. ?
The first recorded discovery was in
1796, when the crew of a small fish-
ing boat were forced to shelter in a
small bay a little south of Port
Stephens, and found coal lying on
the, ground in considerable quantity,
specimens of which they brought back
to Sydney. The following year the
Coalcliff deposits were .discovered by
the survivors of the wrecked vessel
Sydney Cove, and Governor Hun-
ter’s action in sending a party to
investigate resulted in the first authen-
ticated record of the discovery of a
coal seam.
* * * *
Did the population of Melbourne
ever exceed the population of Syd-
ney ?
At December 31, 1901, the esti-
mated population of Melbourne and
suburbs exceeded that of Sydney and
suburbs, the figures being 501,580
and 496,990 respectively. Since that
date Sydney and suburbs have had
the greater estimated population. Prior
to 1901 tables published in early
volumes of the Statistical Registers of
New South Wales and Victoria, show,
over practically the whole period, a
greater population for Melbourne
suburbs than for the metropolitan
area of Sydney, but owing to various
revisions of the figures that appeared
from time to time and other factors,
it is impracticable to obtain a true
comparison of the two populations
for the period covered, viz-, 1870 to
1900.
* * * *
Is price of fruit-case shooks fixed?
What is the present price per shook ?
What was the price two years ago ?
Prices of fruit-case shooks are gov-
erned generally by the provisions of
Prices Regulation Orders Nos. 100,
666 and 1015, and particularly by the
provisions of certain Prices Regulation
Orders which fix the maximum prices
of shooks of specific types. Maximum
prices of all types of fruit-case shooks
have recently been fixed for certain
traders and trade associations. Inquiry
is not sufficiently specific in relation
to types of shooks to enable a more
detailed reply to be given. The
present price per shook could be any
one of 80 prices, according to the
type of shook and the point of sale. If
you are trading or contemplate trad-
ing in case shocks other than those
where prices have been specifically
fixed, you are required under the
National Security (Price) Regular
tions to apply to the N.S.W. Prices
Branch, Sydney, for maximum prices
to be fixed for you.
* * * *
Are acacias ( wattles ) suitable for
growing in Sydney coastal areas ? Also
cultural hints.
Provided there is sufficient grow-
ing space acacias make good garden
subjects. Since many people are
allergic to the pollen do not grow
them near bedroom windows or often-
used rooms. Acacias do not need
strong manure or fertiliser, but a
little leaf-mould is helpful; also an
occasional watering should be given
until the young shrubs are established.
They will stand pruning to any shape.
Selections of varieties will provide
flowers from June to October, but
since these shrubs are often in short
supply it is advisable to put in orders
early with nurserymen in your dis-
trict.
* * * *
Brief details concerning Joe Louis,
world’s heavyweight boxing cham-
pion ?
Louis was born at Lafayette,
Alabama, on May 18, 1914. Began
boxing as an amateur in 1933, and
had first professional fight on July
4, 1934. Won world’s heavyweight
championship by knocking out James
J. Braddock (8th round) at Chicago
on June 22, J937, and has since de-
feated 24 contenders for title. Louis
was beaten four times (by Stanley
Evans, Johnny Miler, Max Marek
and Clinton Bridges) as an amateur,
and once (by Max Schmeling) as a
professional.
Brief Answers.
B.P.: The Law of Banker and Cus-
tomer in Australia by Manning and
Farquharson (Law Book Co., Sydney),


Missing Friends.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
QUEENSLAND.
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
TAKE NOTICE that by an Order of the
Supreme Court of Queensland made on
the Twenty-sixth day of November 1947
in an action by SYLVIA HONORA DALY
as Executrix under the Will of ISABELLA
DALY Deceased against the PUBLIC
CURATOR OP QUEENSLAND as Ad-
ministrator of the Estate of ALFRED
JOHN TEAS Deceased IT IS ORDERED
that all persons claiming to be entitled
to any property of Alfred John Teas late
of Katherine in the Northern Territory of
Australia Labourer Intestate who died on
the Fourth day of February 1927 as next-
of-kin or as legal personal representative
of such next-of-kin file affidavits in sup-
port of their claims in the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Bris-
bane not later than the Twenty-sixth day
of May 1948 That any person claiming
to be so entitled as legal personal repre-
sentative of any such next-of-kin shall
either produce evidence that he has been
granted Probate of the Will or Letters
of Administration in the Estate of any
such next-of-kin by the Supreme Court of
Queensland or shall produce a copy of a
Probate of the Will or Letters of Ad-
ministration in the Estate of any such
next-of-kin granted by the Supreme Court
of any State or Territory of the Com-
monwealth purporting to be an examined
copy thereof or purporting to be sealed
with the seal of any such Court That
the Registrar of the said Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the State
of Queensland in the Commonwealth of
Australia adjudicate on such claims on
the Twenty-sixth day of May 1948 and
that representatives of the Plaintiff the
Defendant and of any other person claim-
ing as aforesaid shall attend on such
adjudication. DATED the Nineteenth day
of December, 1947. —(n.s.) H. R. FITZ-
PATRICK, Acting Second Deputy Regis-
trar.
Missing Friends.
WOULD JOSEPH CARL O’DONOHOE
and MENA IRENE O’DONOHOE, his
wife, formerly of Middle Street, Cardiff,
communicate with MESSRS. BRAYE
ORAGG COHEN & CHAPMAN, Solicitors,
26 Bolton Street, Newcastle, and they
will hear something to their advantage ?
TO the next-of-kin of VINCENT
CLEMENT JOHNSON, late of Kelaua
Plantation, Madang, New Guinea, Planter,
Deceased, believed born at Moree in the
State of New South Wales in 1895. De-
ceased came to the Territory of New
Guinea about 1924. Please communicate
with the Curator of Intestate Estates of
the Territory of New Guinea, adminis-
trator of the estate of the abovenamed
deceased. ANY PERSON having infor-
mation which would be of value in tracing
the next-of-kin of the deceased is re-
quested to advise the undersigned.
H. W. HARDY,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Port Moresby, Papua-New Guinea,
19th December, 1947.
LONDON and BIRMINGHAM
BRITISH
INDUSTRIES FAIR
1948
MAY 3-14
On May 3rd 1948, when the British Industries Fair
opens, buyers from all over the world will have an opportunity
of inspecting the products of 3,000 United, Kingdom manu-
facturers.
This annual event is the world’s largest national trade Fair.
Such is its size and importance that you are urged to come
yourself. You are assured of personal contact with actual manu-
facturers or sole selling agents and you will find exhibits carefully
grouped by trades so that comparisons may be made quickly.
Above all you will see new achievements, new methods of
manufacture and new ideas all executed with superb craftsman-
ship.
This is your only opportunity in 1948 to review within a
few days the achievements of 87 United Kingdom industries.
For information and assistance you should apply to
the nearest British Trade Commissioner's Office
COMPLETE
CONTROL
CENTRALISED
In the business world time is
money. A.T.A. Communica-
tion Systems enable the
executives of an organisation
to keep in constant touch
with each other without leav-
ing their respective offices.
A.T.A. DOUBLE DUTY
Intercommunication System
The A.T.A. System is available in 5, 10 and 15 lines, equipped
so that a simultaneous conversation can be carried on between
all parties connected or individual conversations between any
two points. These telephone systems are modern, attractive in
design, trouble free, and low in cost.
ĥ
AMALGAMATED
TELEPHONES
(AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
8-10 Albion St., Sydney
Tel.: MA 6970.
.. qood to he m®ff!
!t° ' _ my word. I do Tike ao
Vickers Cm Squash
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE^BOOK
It’s the perfect answer to temperatures
that soar round the nineties —the great-
est cooling drink I know. A fellow
finds himself putting up with the heat
when he knows he’s In line for a
Vickers Gin Squash or two —take my
word for it. But mark you—the gin
must be Vickers. Pop this recipe in
your book.
VICKERS GIN SQUASH
(for four)
Bruise the skin of a lemon, then slice
whole lemon into a jug. Crush one
tablespoon of sugar into the lemon.
Add 6 cloves, dashes of cinnamon and
nutmeg, and 2 sprigs of mint.
Add 4 good nobblers of Vickers Gin.
Stir well, then strain into 4 tumblers.
Top each with ice and soda water.
50 tested recipes for classic cocktails and long drinks
and some new ones have been collected in an
attractive free book. They’re practical, easy-to-mix
thirst-quenchers and appetisers, made from ingredients
the home cupboard can provide. Write for your copy to
United Distillers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G. Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne.
NCE 1750
ve 20/33
price £2... .K.E.E.: The S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize is now awarded to
the most outstanding contribution to
Australian literature published during
the 12 months preceding June of
each year. Unpublished works are
not eligible for consideration. No
entries are called for, but there would
be no objection to an author draw-
ing the attention of the Trustees to
the fact that he had had a book
published H.L.: The substance
can be bought from your nearest
chemist at prices which will vary
according to freight paid from source
supplied. It is not an expensive
preparation in either liquid or powder
form. Suggest you apply to the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
for advice as to what form to use
for your particular insect trouble....
W.J.S.: An estate in fee simple is
an estate in freehold or absolute
ownership C.E.W.: Write Miss
Ellis, 70 Pitt-street, Sydney... .1.J.5.;
Suggest that you write to either Mr.
Atkinson, of Burma-Malay Tin Ltd.,
117 Pitt-street, Sydney, or New Occi-
dental Gold Mines, N.L., of the same
address.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
Bellerive: It has the festive spirit:
E.R.M.: Why is it that whenever
the average bloke squats on a beach
he feels obliged to write a poem to
the sea? J.F.D.P.: “J.F.D.P. pre-
sents his compliments to The Bulle-
tin and requests that the enclosures
be favored with kind consideration.”
The Bulletin presents its compli-
ments to J.F.D.P. and regrets that
it can’t be kind N.B.: Not this
trip,.. .OJ.C.: It’s not badly done,
but there’s no space these days
for such tributes R.G.H.: We
should have thought that he would be
glad to have got the brat off his
hands... .E.M.P.; At least you didn’t
introduce the “dove of peace”....
N.L.R.; Sending it home B.K.:
“Grandfather” and “path” don’t
■make an ideal rhyme M.T.: Both
too slight. There’s a fresh touch about
them that might carry you into a
woman’s paper H.H.: Not well
enough tpld.;. .M.S.: “Moonlight”
misses... .N.G.M.: We clothed “The
Naked Tree” in an envelope and
sent it home... .J.L.O.: You’re still
on the outer S.M.: You can’t
rhyme “gesture” and “fiesta” in our
pages... .L.H.C.; We, too, have
“read the rhyming efforts of a billion
balmy bards,” and agree that their
“efforts come by barrow-loads.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B.M.L.: Those outspread hands!
R.McD.: The oar salesman appears
to be defying the law of gravity
T.S.N.: Judging by the shadows there
must be two suns in the sky at dia-
metrically opposite positions
K.C.T.: The freak with arms sprout-
ing from midway down his body and
with the swivelled neck is on his
way home... .S.B.: That dog’s legs
are so long if he looked down at
the ground he’d get vertigo
N.G.A.: The handle of the lawn-
mower seems to have disappeared into
the pusher’s chest Bert: Away
with your dehydrated pig with mutton-
chop whiskers!
RECOLLECTIONS OF MY EARLY MANHOOD.
After a absence of a few months in
Bendigo, Vic., I returned home with a
few hard-earned pounds in time to spend
Christmas in Melbourne. Havinjf paid my
way at home I squandered the balance
in random jubilation, including Christ-
mas Eve night with associates familiar to
my memory. Glasses were filled and re-
filled. When aroused to enthusiasm we
give vent to the beloved old ditty “Don’t
You Love Me, Mollie Darling,” when a
argument ensued over one of the boys
having rufiled the lady-in-waiting’s curls,
which terminated in a brawl. I got ex-
cited, struck a pugilistic attitude, hit
out into space, and went down with a
lovely black eye, and was assisted to my
feet by a devoted pal.
We sung and caroused
When a fight ensued,
I got a black eye,
And my money blued.
“Bad luck,” said a pug,
“You got it all right 1
It’s Christmas-time,
And poets can’t fight.”
Home I did go
And retired to bed
To awake at morn with
A deuced sore head.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TRUMAN’S TOUGH JOB.
President Truman is getting a much
better “press” in America than he had
a year ago, and it is! not merely because
this is Presidential-election year. It is
generally agreed that he has a tough job
on his hands andi is doing it remarkably
well. His personal performance is being
rated with those of outstanding Presi-
dents.
N. Y. “Times’s” sound Washington
representative Arthur Krock, pointing out
that war-time Presidents usually figure
more importantly in history than those
who have served in time of peace, insists
that the problems facing President Tru-
man “are reminders that Executives of
post-war eras carry the heaviest Presiden-
tial burdens”: —
These are staggering enough when they are
undertaken in the atmosphere of a general will
toward peace and recovery. But when, as in
this instance, they must be dealt with during
a “cold war” the burdens equal and perhaps
exceed any that an American President has
borne.
The state of “cold war” obliges the United
States to pursue a paradoxical course. Its
industries for more than four years were suc-
cessfully mobilised to destroy the cities and
works of other nations. Now they are being
utilised to rebuild and expand what their pro-
ducts destroyed. But, because of the threat in
Soviet policy, the United States is at the same
time compelled to devote a large share of its
industry and resources to maintain the machines
of potential destruction —in the Army, the
Navy, the Air Force and the manufacture of
atomic weapons.
No American Government faced this neces-
sity before while endeavoring to repair the
damages of recent war. No previous recon-
struction undertaken by an American Govern-
ment called for anything approaching the neces-
sary quantity of aid over a comparable area.
And on President Truman, as the head of a
Government in this situation, rests the bulk
of the burden.
A revealing example of the President in
action is vouched for by N. Y. “Post”
writer Edgar Ansel Mowrer. It had to
do with getting the Russians out of
Northern Iran; frequently listed as a
U.N.O. “achievement.” Stalin’s “shilly-
shallying, obstruction and , insulting
attacks on American intentions” finally
changed T/uman, who had started in office
trying to carry on the Roosevelt belief
that it was possible to do business with
Russia. The Russian agreement to take
their troops out of Iran —secured by then
Secretary of State James F. Byrnes in
U.N.O. —was only part of the job facing
the President. It was also necessary to
clear the northern province of Azerbaijan
of tiie pro-Communist “Government”
which the retreating Russians had left in
charge. As Mowrer records it:
Iran’s Prime Minister Qavam was in a fix
—and so was Jimmy Byrnes. Qavam had an
adequate instrument —the regular Iranian army
—to go in and kick Moscow’s puppet, Jaafir
Peshevari, back into Russia. But if he dared,
would not the Red Army come back to assist
Peshevari —this time taking over not only the
northern province but the rest of Iran as well?
What would the United States do then?
With action in the U.N. blocked by the
Soviet veto, the President decided to see what
could be accomplished by a show of American
sea power.
Since April, 1946, the American Administra-
tion has been carrying out in Middle Eastern
waters a sort of.permanent “naval demonstra-
tion.” One after another, the super-battleship
Missouri and the aircraft carriers Franklin D.
Roosevelt, Randolph and Leyte (with appropriate
escorts) have carried the Stars and Stripes from
one Mediterranean port to another. Istanbul,
Izmir (Smyrna), Beirut, Alexandria in Egypt,
Piraeus in Greece and the Adriatic cities re-
ceived friendly visits from American war vessels.
Early in 1947 an American destroyer carried the
flag deep into the Persian Gulf.
The eastern Mediterranean is within easy
steaming of Iran. It is within easy flying of the
Soviet Black Sea ports and southern industrial
districts. Each of these ships was a visible hint
to Moscow to keep its fingers out of the
Iranian province.
In a sudden press release that started many
Americans, Secretary Forrestal explained that
the American task force was in the Mediter-
ranean “to support U.S. policies in the area.”
Adm. Halsey bluntly stated that the American
fleet would go anywhere it pleased on the high
seas.
The President declared that the U.S. could
countenance no rape of the Dardanelles.
Here was straight talk. After allowing several
months for it to sink in, the American Em-
bassy in Tehran calmly informed the hesitating
Qavam that from the U.S. he could expect
“no assistance without resistance.”
Thus incited, Qavam took the leap. In the
teeth of a Soviet warning Iranian regulars
crossed the border into rebellious Azerbaijan.
The world waited for Moscow’s reaction.
There was none. Russia protested but did not
move. The puppet regime collapsed without
serious resistance.
People gave the U.N. credit for this victory
of law and decency. But President Truman is
convinced that the Soviets backed down because
of the warships he sent to the Middle East.
The same ships are still present, and
being “shown,” in those waters in case
the “cold war” President Truman has on
his hands turns to a “shooting war”
round about Greece. In that “cold
war,” with the Marshall Plan as its
main feature, the President now has a
quite remarkable backing—practically all
the leading U.S. newspapers with the ex-
ception of the Hearst and McCormick
string ; these having the, for them, amaz-
ing company of the Com. “Daily
Worker.”
The President’s calling of the special
Congress (which voted stopgap aid to
some European countries) was credited
by “Christian Science Monitor’s” chief
Washington representative Roscoe Drum-
mond with being mainly responsible
for strengthening U.S. foreign policy.
Drummond reported a prevailing
atmosphere of confidence ; “not a goggle-
eyed, woolly-minded expectation that
Marshal Stalin soon will unsheath a magic
wand and wave all our disagreements out
the window,” but “a calm confidence that
American foreign policy knows where it
is headed and is going to get there suc-
cessfully” : —•
The reason is that in substance and in action
the United States has pre-empted the initiative
on almost the entire diplomatic front. Today
the American Government is not fretfully wait-
ing to learn and then nervously trying to counter
the unexpected moves of the Soviet Union. At
last the American Government is doing the
moving, and there is in consequence a better
poise and a steadier direction apparent in the
Capital than at any time since the end of the
war.
The credit for that is very widely given
to President Truman. As examples, the
Scripps-Howard papers described the
President’s message to Congress (laying
before it the aid proposals) as
“masterly”; the “Herald Tribune” re-
ferred to the President’s programme in
general as “the greatest effort towards
international planning ever undertaken” ;
N. Y. “Times” said “it will stand un-
paralleled as a peace-time undertaking in
the breadth of its vision and the sweep
and boldness of its conception” ; even
the Leftish “PM” hailed the Presidential
programme as “one in which every
thoughtful American may take pride.”
London “Times” has summed up that
“Mr. Truman’s Presidency will be re-
membered for the programme of aid to
Europe... .a grand design to breathe life
into the old world by the help of the
new.” The “Times” further described
the programme as “a prodigious act of
statesmanship,” and, though many both
in America and Europe have of course
had a hand in the details, and U.S. Sec-
retary of State Marshall has been the
driving force, the final -credit goes to
President Truman, holding a position to-
day that very few anywhere expected of
him when he took office.
CONGRESSMEN IN SPAIN.
indicating the extraordinary American
interest in the possibilities of the Mar-
shall Plan, no fewer than something over
200 Congressmen visited Europe specially
to see for themselves, and some of them
cast up in Spain. On these, the “Christian
Science Monitor” Madrid correspondent
reported:
While none of the Congressmen made public
statements at Madrid, reports that many of
them regarded Spain’s political situation as an
ordinary question and not one for a thumbs-
down policy have been spread. These are
taken by Spaniards to herald a change in the
American attitude which has not been shown
as yet by American official acts.
One Congressman is reported to have said,
“the Spanish question has been by-passed by
events.”
Another “cannot see why Spain was ex-
cluded from the Marshall Plan, because Spain
is an important part of the European economic
whole.”
Still another reportedly said, “We are pre-
paring to Europe enormous sums, and have
excluded the one country which is surest to
repay.”
Yet another is quoted: “Franco is a dic-
tator. So what? Since he became dictator
there have arisen several new dictators in
South America with whom we are doing busi-
ness without worrying about ideologies or how
they got power. And eastern Europe, where
we have just been, is plastered with dictators.”
EUROPE OR CHINA FIRST?
In Washington “Post’s” view, there is
much the same problem now as when, in
the war, it was decided to “beat Hitler
first.” Now it’s a question of whom to
save first from Soviet expansionism:
China or Western Europe.
The decision, contends the “Post,”
should be the same as in the war:
Where is our [U.S ] present and greater danger?
Where is our rival power focused? Where
are we likely to pick up more strength in the
world struggle on which we are freshly em-
barked? The answer lies, we submit, in
Western Europe. Here is the very fount of
Western civilisation, the area where freedom
still reigns, the part of the world against which
international Communism and Soviet imperial-
ism have mobilised themselves. There is another
reason why Western Europe deserves our con-
centrated attention now. In Western Europe
there are seats of empire as well as friends
and allies in the fight for freedom whose col-
lapse would make vacuums outside as well as
within their domestic jurisdictions. The 270
million people of the “Marshall” countries be-
lieve in our way of life, and, when they have
recovered their vitality, are most likely to be
on our side in the world-wide struggle for it.
In the circumstances the most prudent course
for our statesmanship is to concentrate on
Western Europe.
On the other hand, China, in the Wash-
ington “Post” view, “is going through one
of her historical travails which do not
yield to quick, and certainly not to
foreign, solutions.”
Nevertheless, the U.S., according to
“World Report,” is increasing military
aid to Chiang Kai-shek; econo-
mic assistance taking second place.
“Under a three-year programme now
starting, 20 new Chinese divisions are to
be trained, and possibly equipped, by the
United States The American military
mission in China, now composed of 1000
officers, is being enlarged. For the first
time in nearly two years Americans again
are training Chinese combat divisions....
A tentative agreement between Washing-
ton and Nanking provides that the Ameri-
can-trained troops will not go into action
until fully trained.” The report adds
that the new Chinese Infantry Training
Centre is being established in Japanese-
built installations in Formosa and that
“American volunteers are being sought
from the U.S. occupation forces in Japan
to serve as instructors at the Formosa
centre.”
THE DYNAMOS.
Colm Brogan, in Our New Masters
(Hollis and Carter), reports on a sporting
visitation boomed at the time in cables:
Returning soldiers did something to make
the ordinary man doubt if the Russians were
as admirable as he had passionately believed,
but the mind of the enthusiast discounted the
evidence, although it could not very well be
rejected. In any event, this evidence only
showed that the Russian Army was violently
undisciplined, and many of the soldiers positively
uncivilised. It did not prove that it was im-
possible to deal on friendly and understanding
terms with the Russians because their system
did not permit friendship or understanding.
It was left to the Russians themselves to offer
concrete evidence that they were impossible,
and they readily obliged, with their customary
fine understanding of the Western mind.
They sent over a football team, to play in
England and Scotland. They were welcomed
with something more than cordiality, for
Russian enthusiasm was still running very high,
but they had hardly arrived before they began
to insult their hosts, quite unconsciously, but
at every turn. They brought an interpreter
who was either unable to speak much English
or was afraid to say anything. They brought
a dietician to keep their digestions at Bolshevik
tempo. They brought a psychiatrist to keep
them thinking on Stalinist lines. They flew
their own special food over from Moscow and
ate away at costly luxuries with the endless
persistence of cows. They rejected the living
quarters that were offered to them, and the
training quarters. They refused to answer any
questions about anything. When social meetings
were arranged in their honor, they stood by
themselves, or did not come at all. There was
no trick of cold .insolence which these pre-
posterous young man did not play, in apparent
unconsciousness of their staggering offensive-
ness. They were here to demonstrate the
superiority of Stalinite football over bour-
geois football, and the superiority of Russia
over Britain. Whatever happened, they must
not lose, even if they had to bring revolvers
on to the field.
One of the players who had got a black eye
during the Arsenal match telephoned to Moscow
to report the atrocity, and it was announced in
Russia that the Dynamo had beaten an All-
England eleven, and also that the Arsenal
manager had bet so much money on the match
that he fainted when he saw that he was going
to lose.
The tour ended in Glasgow, in a blaze of
fury. The fame of the Dynamo had gone
before them, smelling strongly in the wind.
The Socialist Council of Glasgow went to
absurd lengths to curry favor with their own
ideological supporters, but found that their
guests were in no melting mood. They flatly
refused to allow one man to play because his
name was not on the list originally submitted
to them. They were invited to sail down the
Clyde, but not one of the playing team
appeared on the boat. They had their butter
flown over from Russia, and their manager
spent two hours on the phone to Moscow,
choosing the team. They could not have
behaved with more hostile suspicion if they
had been carrying with them an atomic bomb,
instead of a practice football.
Ninety thousand people packed Ibrox Park
to see Bolshevik ideology do battle with the
bourgeoisie. Annoyed, suspicious and excited,
the crowd were at first willing to show enthu-
siasm for the Russians, for 80 per cent, of
the crowd were working men and sworn ad-
mirers of Stalin. But the Dynamo so managed
to conciliate themselves, that all through the
second half there was a solid and terrifying
wall of booing, like a waterfall. The Dynamo
managed to draw, though they were so hard
pressed that at one time they tried the ex-
periment of playing 12 men at once. When the
game ended there was an exultant roar for
the Rangers, who had patently outplayed, out-
bumped and outlasted the men of the new
world. Rangers hopped off nimbly and in
high spirits, but the Dynamo limped off,
physically and mentally exhausted. They had
been very lucky not to lose, and they may
well have shuddered to think what a defeat
would have meant to them.
“The football tour,” the writer com-
ments, “was a trivial affair in itself, but
it was by no means unimportant in its
results 1 . It gave millions of workers first-
hand evidence of what the Russian
system really means. They had had an
object lesson in totalitarianism, and
although it did not altogether destroy
their faith in Russia, it helped them to
understand Mr. Bevin’s difficulties. He
was dealing with men who would not,
because they could not, accept anything
that looked like defeat. The only satis-
factory decision for the Russians in any
field was one which could be represented
in Russia as a victory for the Kremlin
and a defeat for the bourgeoisie. So far
as the lesson sank in, they were able to
follow Mr. Bevin’s struggles with the
more sympathy.”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Tea, Blarney, at the Double! —Common or
garden Diggers of the other-ranks category have
never had the luck to see such a sight as
former U.S. Secretary of State James F. Byrnes
describes in one passage of his book Speaking
Frankly: “I would see him [Stalin] at an after-
noon session [at Yalta] beckon to a Red Army
general who sat back of him and send him out
for a cup of tea.”
* * *
Australia and Indonesia. —Canberra (miscalled
Australian) Indonesian “policy” as explained by
the “Atlantic Monthly”: “Australia is torn
between backing up [British support of Dutch
aims] and looking to her own interests by sup-
porting the Indonesians as likely to provide
greater opportunities for trade.” It sounds
almost silly enough to be true.
* * * *
Can This Be Hollywoodi? —N. Y. “Sun” re-
ports a poll taken among members of filmdom
in Hollywood as showing that of those polled
70.1 per cent, have never been divorced, 14.2
per cent, are teetotalers, and 29 per cent, don’t
even smoke.
* * * *
Another “Farmer George.” —A correspondent
of N. Y. “Times” reporting from King’s Lynn
(Eng.): “One of the licensed retailers of milk
in this ancient port and market town is a
farmer who happens to be King George VL
The King is rated here as a keen farmer, as
was his father. The talk of King’s Lynn these
days is the deal His Majesty just made to add
a bit of grazing land to his property. He
gets detailed monthly reports about Sandring-
ham even when he goes on trips like that to
South Africa, and if anything is wrong they
say here that ‘He is down on his managers like
a ton of bricks’. ”
* * * *
A Little Light Reading. —“ Westerns” of a
somewhat different sort are being added to
literature: the forthcoming publication by the
Western Powers (meaning U.S ; -Britain) of a
selection of the captured official Nazi docu-
ments. An idea of the pile captured is shown
by the fact that the mere 1 per cent, of the
mountain of seized material which is being
published will run to 25 vols. Among the
papers are full accounts of the Nazi-Soviet
secret negotiations. , “These papers,” Neal
Stanford comments in the “American Mercury,”
“disclose a story of power politics in the raw
For obvious reasons the Russians are boy-
cotting this history project. The Soviets have
never let their own people know of the secret
negotiations the Kremlin carried on with the
Nazis. They successfully prevented the story
from being aired at the Nuremberg trials, when
the West tried to get it read into the record
as evidence of the Third Reich’s imperialist
designs. For, while the material would have
added to the indictment of Hitlerism, it would
also have portrayed the Kremlin as an aggres-
sor.”
* * * *
U.S. Marshall-Plan Motives. —As stated by
America’s London Ambassador Lewis Douglas:
“Let no man believe that if the United States
decides to play its part in the restoration of
stability ana civilised living in Europe, it is
unaware of the sacrifices which will thereby
be imposed on the American people. There
are many who have said my country must
engage on this enterprise to preserve its own
economic stability. No greater fallacy could
be entertained by anyone. Our debts are heavy,
our taxes are very high, our position is inflated
like a great balloon. We are not a land of
inexhaustible, treasures. The United States has
drawn upon its resources to an extent which
is perhaps not fully comprehended. If therefore
we embark on this enterprise, we do so only
for one moving and compelling reason—to
establish stability, decency, and civilised living
among the peoples of Europe. Our motives are
clean, our ambitions are high, our desires are
no less noble than those of the people of any
other land.”
* * * *
Corns Losing Ground. After looking into
nine countries “along the perimeter of the
Communist world,” Scripps-Howard correspon-
dent William H. Newton concludes that “the
Russians are growing panicky,” with reason.
“Despite their bluster in the United Nations
and in international politics there is evidence
all along the Soviet frontier from Korea to
Italy that Communists have committed serious
blunders and suffered substantial losses. In
almost every one of the nine nations visited
they have lost ground in the last year. The
result is that Soviet propaganda grows more
hysterical, the Communists in each country
resort more and more to violence. To hundreds
of thousands of people in the border nations,
the Communist party becomes increasingly a
symbol of terrorism and chaos.”
* * * *
“Kangaroo” Court. —Some Bulletineer may
perhaps know the genesis of “kangaroo court”
as the term is used in America. It isn’t applied
to an itinerant court hopping about from place
to place, as might be guessed, but is a term
of contempt. Thus George E. Sokolsky uses it
in his N. Y. “Sun” column; “One of the
early assumptions among the conquering nations
was collective guilt, namely, that they could by
a kangaroo court, which made its own rules,
punish thousands of persons in enemy countries
for what they termed war guilt. As the various
allies did not join forces simultaneously, some
of the peace-loving nations were as guilty as
the war-loving nations, but that was passed over
as too logical. For instance, if Ribbentrop was
guilty of making war, certainly Molotov was
equally guilty, for without the Ribbentrop-
Molotov pact Germany would not have dared
make war upon her neighboring countries. Or
to take the parent arrangement, the Hitler-
Stalin alliance, which formed the basis of World
War 11, guilt naturally attaches to all parties
to the deal.”


The Bulletin
Vo!. 69—No. 3544
Wednesday, January 14, 1948
HYPNOTIC SUGGESTION.
A craze for hypnotism is rolling round the world and has reached Sydney.”
"You are now in Calwell-avenue, Tel-Aviv, putting down the insurrection against your Palestine settlement.”


The Bulletin
'Hie National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WHY WASTE THE MONEY?
Along with the Bank Grab Act, whose
internal organs are to be analysed by the
Courts, the Prices Referendum —to be
held at some date between February 4 and
June 4 —is the Chifleys’ chosen medium
for fastening a centralised control upon
all business in aid of socialisation.
There are several features of the
“Government’s” attitude in preparing
for this referendum which ought to be
impressed upon all electors at once:
The “Government” knows that its objec-
tive is widely opposed and resented, but is
proceeding with it on the ground that the
people are incapable of knowing what is
best for them. “We believe,” said Mr.
Chifley in Parliament, “whether the people
agree or not, that they should be protected.”
So obviously does the public disagree
that it was officially announced a month
ago that the referendum appeal would be
postponed till the latest possible date be-
cause “the Government would then have
a better chance of succeeding.”
The “Labol”’ case as prepared is being
put in the most reckless and violent
language, which does not stop short of in-
voking class passions, with gross mis-
representation of facts and conditions.
The Government’s proceeding is in flat
repudiation of its assurances given, firstly
on the tightening of controls for the war
emergency, and later on the representation
that they must he continued for a time
during a “transition period.”
The referendum appeal is designed to
hand over to the Commonwealth, at the
expense of the authority of the States,
permanent control over “rents and prices
(including charges),” the administration
of which—-on the experience of the
emergency war-time controls—would
give a greatly increased army of officials
and inspectors the power to demand all
particulars of the. smallest trader’s busi-
ness anywhere in the Commonwealth
and even —as temporary regulations
allowed—to smash open and forcibly
search business premises at any hour if
breaches of regulations are suspected. The
term “charges” would cover the smallest
transaction between any two people any-
where and every time. Everything of the
sort would have to be officially recorded.
The form-filling, the compulsion to
seek Canberra’s permits for all buying or
selling, the watch by officials over what
we eat or drink, where we go to and
what we do, the regimentation into jobs
and the prohibitions upon travel, the
decrees on how we may use our money,
to what extent, and for what profit—
the whole hateful, degrading deprival of
simple liberties for the yoke of Govern-
ment regulations in every sphere of life,
is now sought by “Labor” to be made
permanent. This referendum is the first
step towards doing so, just as the ex-
propriation of the trading banks was the
first step towards centralised control of
all services and materials required in
daily life and industry.
It is past credence that a people which
has in every domain of life, rich or poor,
suffered with mounting rebellion the in-
flictions of this mountebank gang calling
itself a democratic Government, through
a bureaucracy, trebled in numbers since
the outbreak of the second German war,
added to every month and for ever grow-
ing more insolent, should now be in-
duced to vote for the permanent fastening
of these chains upon themselves.
They are the more degrading because
unnecessary and ineffectual for the pur-
poses pretended by the Government in
its vamped-up argument. Even if the
argument itself were not spurious, the
politicians who are appealing for these
permanent controls are not, as politicians,
to be trusted further. They have grossly
and knowingly deceived the electors
already in a matter directly corollary to
this latest effort. They have been halted
and challenged in that deceit, and they
have shamelessly refused to make the
amends that any executive of elected per-
sons ought to make. In face of nation-
wide public protests they dared not per-
sist in their first pretence that they had
a mandate for the bringing down of the
Bank Grab Bill, and the further sug-
gestion that they had at least an implied
mandate collapsed under a chorus of
demands that they prove it by taking a
referendum on that question.
Mr. Chifley refused to take the people’s
verdict in any form. He refused
(publicly, though not in “Labor’s” own
councils) to recognise the party’s disaster
at the Victorian Assembly elections as any
sort of answer to him on the Bank Grab
Bill. And when, as soon as the Bill be-
came law, the challenge in the Courts
held up its operation, the “Government’s”
one desire, as now with the Prices Refer-
endum, was to arrange the critical date so
that through effluxion of time (it is hoped)
the electors may “forget.”
To such a leader of such a “Govern-
ment” there can be only one just answer
by the electors. It is that in no direction
whatever, for whatever purpose, shall it
be entrusted with any smallest increase
of power over our daily lives and in-
terests. The Chifiey Ministry has
destroyed the confidence once reposed in
it. It is today utterly unworthy of con-
fidence. Its statements about its policy
and intentions are simply not to be
accepted.
Unforgotten is the statement of the
Chief Prices Commissioner, summarising
for the benefit of traders the policy he
was administering and looking ahead: —
The Government has already announced
that its new policy will be towards aban-
donment of price control as soon as cir-
cumstances permit: that is, when supply
catches up with demand and competitive
trading is resumed. It is expected that the
method to be adopted will be de-control on
a commodity basis.
The “new policy” of the present refer-
endum proposal is laid in exactly the
opposite intent.
For the referendum campaign the
language of the Government’s propa-
ganda pamphlet, “prepared under the
supervision of Dr. Evatt” —as was the
drafting of the Bank Grab Bill until he
found himself an alibi in a mission over-
seas —is fallacious by its very excesses.
The electors are asked to believe that by
voting to increase and make permanent
the present form-filling controls over
their daily activities, they will enable this
“Government”—which already treats the
nation’s industrial health as of secondary
importance to its own socialistic aims—
to avert inflation, ordain fair rentals, pro-
duce real benefits from wage-increases,
and protect savings and social-service
benefits. If the “Government” does not
get these powers, it says, the public will
be exposed to blackmarketing, inflation,
depression, “a scramble for houses and
goods with the rich alwayl winning and
industrial unrest. It ends up by declar-
ing that this prices control is to be only
“a reserve power,” that “when supply
catches up to control it will not be
needed,” and that, anyhow, the States
cannot do the job.
The plain meaning of this balderdash
is that the inflation, blackmarketing and
industrial unrest which have flourished
under Canberra’s temporary controls will
disappear when those controls are made
permanent; that there were no effective
fair-rent courts in the States before the
Chifley Ministry’s accession to its little
brief authority; and that by simply vot-
ing “Yes” instead of “No” the electors
will be able to end the scramble for
houses.
As for “the rich always winning,” who
has done the “winning” in cases imper-
fectly concealed? “Labor” and friends:
Keane and Goldberg; Parry and Mur-
ray ; Wren, with a profusion of dollars for
the importation of American negro
pugilists ; bookmakers and refugees and
the rest. And there was a “Labor”
Minister for whom extensive housing re-
pairs were wangled without a permit, and
who was “amazed” to find that the job
had been done without bis knowledge.
There was another “Labor” Minister who
came back from dollar-squandering
travels with so much luggage, unexamined
by the Customs, that it filled a special car
sent from Sydney to Brisbane to carry
it to Sydney.
As for the States being unable or un-
willing, Mr. Hollway in Victoria and even
Mr. McGirr in N. S. Wales have hastened
to say that they will maintain any con-
trols they judge necessary for the public
welfare when the Commonwealth vacates
the field it has usurped, and the Premier
of South Australia has grown tired of
retorting to observations of that sort
from Canberra.
But the mountebankery of the whole
thing is quite easily exposed directly the
elector asks himself the simple question:
What is the trouble? The trouble is
shortage of production, and production
has declined because of repressive taxa-
tion, “controls,” strikes—always unlaw-
ful but never interfered with, much less
punished, by the Chifley mob—wide-
spread slowing-down and the multiplica-
tion of non-producing Government em-
ployees. The cure for shortages is the
abolition of shortages. “Labor” not only
cannot abolish them, but appears to pre-
fer them, for sake of the socialisation
aim.
Canberra is using now, under tempor-
ary powers, all the controls it is seeking
to make permanent. Particularly since Mr.
Chifley let wage-controls go, inflation has
been given an impetus, and price-control
has become inefficient. Prices have never
been higher, Blackraarketing is as bad
as ever. And the official announcement
that the successful applicant for a car-
purchase permit is in future to be notified
by telegram, “like lottery winners,” to
prevent his being stung for “a considera-
tion,” is a pointer to the corruption that
goes on. Those are the conditions pro-
duced by central controls, not, as “Labor”
would pretend, cured by them. Especially
in view of the decisive refusal of the grant
of powers sought in 1944, it is sheer
audacity to ask the electors to make these
controls permanent.
Nest for the Cuckoo.
Mr. Attlee celebrated his 65th birthday,
on January 3, by delivering a speech,
part of which, to A.A.P., was “a slash-
ing denunciation of Russia’s leaders and
their Communist puppets in the satellite
countries of Eastern Europe.” This was
the Attlee reply to a Molotov tirade (De-
cember 31) blaming the British and
American delegates for the failure of the
last Foreign Ministers’ conference and
accusing them of promoting German
separatism and United States “ex-
pansionism.”
There was no onslaught in the Attlee
speech on those British and United States
leaders who were responsible for the
Russians being able to become “greater
tyrants than any kings or emperors in
the past” and to command puppet Com-
munist States in Eastern Europe. It is not
the habit of Fabian socialist Prime
Ministers to denounce themselves and
colleagues. This Mr. Attlee would have
had to do if he had attempted to place
the blame for the present horrible posi-
tion, which the Kremlin is using to further
the ends of Communist imperialism at
the risk of turning the world into a smok-
ing ruin.
It is now well known that Mr.
Churchill wanted an invasion of the Bal-
kans so as to add weight to the blow
against the Germans on their most vul-
nerable side. It is equally well known,
and very clearly established, that this
plan was opposed violently by the Rus-
sians, because, as now appears obvious,
it would have prevented them from
plundering and absorbing the Balkan
countries into their barbarous empire.
The old Prime Minister was compelled
to give way by the pressure of United
States and that of Mr. Attlee and his
colleagues, swept along by a public
opinion disastrously influenced by a
Soviet-hypnotised press and radio. Events
have made it clear that there would be
a united Germany today—and not a
Communist Germany—if the Anglo-
American advance from the west had not,
under orders, been stopped dead at the
Elbe.
No crazier policy could have been
conceived. The Allied leaders must
have known —and did indeed know —
what a treacherous and ungrateful lot of
savages they were dealing with in Mos-
cow, since they had already felt com-
pelled to make concessions to them to
prevent Stalin from signing another Hitler
peace. Yet they deliberately cut off their
advance on Berlin and allowed the Red
Army to swarm over, ravage and turn
into a Communised province of the
U.S.S.R. that part of Germany on which
the industrial part depends for its food
supply. And, at Potsdam in July, 1945,
Mr. Attlee, taking over the reins of power
in the midstream of negotiations, sur-
rendered to Moscow on almost every
point raised in connection with the control
of Germany.
If the British Government had learned
its lesson, during the period in which
Stalin and his general staff have double-
crossed their allies at every turn, the Pots-
dam surrender might be forgiven. But
Mr. Attlee’s birthday oration shows that
it has learned nothing.
Mr. Attlee says “the history of
Soviet Russia provides us with a warn-
ing that, without political freedom, collec-
tivism can quickly go astray and lead to
new forms of oppression and injustice.”
y Britain's task, as he views it, is to “work
out a system of a new and challenging
kind which combines individual freedom
with a planned economy, democracy and
social justice....a philosophy in its
own right— not watered capitalism or
watered Communism.” British “Labor”
aims at being a “third force,” capable of
effecting a reconciliation between Ameri-
can capitalism and Russian Commun-
ism by demonstrating, as “an outstanding
champion,” the superior merits of “demo-
cratic socialism.”
At the moment when Mr. Attlee was
propounding his “philosophy” leading
British unions, including the Civil Ser-
vice Clerical Association, which boasts
138,000 members, were striving to rid
themselves of Communist control. Com-
munist control is; easily established over
such bodies, for one thing because the
Communist programme calls for social-
isation as a halfway stage towards its
ultimate objective. In Communist
jargon, “socialism regiments the prole-
tariat and inures it to discipline; the
dictatorship of the proletariat takes ad-
vantage of socialism to act like a photo-
graphic fixer, so that there may be no
regression.”
In effect, socialism is the immediate
aim of both Communists and Laborites
or social democrats. Their only differ-
ence is as to methods of attainment and
enforcement. For all his brave words,
Mr. Attlee is building another nest for
the Moscow cuckoo. Delightful to that
bird are the vast intake of Englishmen
and -women from taxpaying enterprises
into Government departments and the
fantastic losses thus incurred, such as
those of the Oversea Airways Corporation
—in 1946-47, £62 per passenger, the
total £8,076,800, largely converted into
dollars —which can be represented every-
where as results of half-measures; of a
feeble substitute for that Communism
which is pure and perfect.
PLAIN ENGLISH
M.L.A., Director—and Prof.?
Before the Sydney Parliamentarians ad-
journed for their summer holidays, which
were brightened in advance for all hands
(except rank-and-file Ms.L.C, payment
of whom the Constitution forbids) by
greatly increased “allowances,” which
will correspondingly increase the McGirr
deficit, Mr. Lou Cunningham, the Labor
member for Coogee, let himself go.
Feeling his oats of his rise of £SOO a year
—to £1375 —Lou lashed out at a retiring
Sydney University professor:
Professor Bland has stuck his bib into
the banking issue. He is paid to educate
the students, and the Government pays
money into the University to enable ex-
ploded economic shibboleths such as private
enterprise in banking to be taught. The
time is overripe when the Government
should see that if it pays money into the
University it should have an effective voice
in the curriculum.
But why stop at the curriculum? Why
not insist on a Chair of Racing? It would
be an appropriate practical extension of
the spirit in which “Labor” introduced
the Sydney Turf Club Bill, guaranteeing
financial backing for the club, when the
Japanese were occupying Australian
territory and threatening to invade the
continent and subjecting 20,000 Austra-
lians, many of whom did not return, to
Oriental barbarities in their horror-
camps. And who could be better quali-
fied for a Professorship of Racing or of
Racecourse Gambling than the “Labor”
member for Coogee when he has lost
his seat, as did Comrades Mountjoy,
Breen, Forde, Frost and the raft of de-
feated Queensland “Labor” Ms.L.A.,
also “provided for”?
.Asa “Labor” member Mr. Cunning-
him supported the Sydney Turf Club Bill
(“assented to, July 28, 1943”), having in
the process to overcome a lesser loyalty
to the Victoria Park Racing and Recrea-
tions Grounds Cos., Ltd. Along with F. P.
Donohue and another Donohue, he is a
director of that concern and, as such,
had a hand in the sale of its delicensed
racecourse to Lord Nuffield, subject, as it
transpired, to “training rights” reserved
by the Sydney Turf Club, which did not
use the course for racing. When Lord
Nuffield learned of the “training rights”
he refused to go on with his plan for a
factory on the racecourse. He is now
being offered inducements by the McGirr
Government to return to his original de-
sign.
Victoria Park directors’ fees amount to
£4OO a year. This is stated in a report
to shareholders dated December 10,
1947, though it deals altogether with the
year to December 31, 1946. It lacks
something on the score of preciseness.
For example Mr. Cunningham figures
as L. (not L.L.) Cunningham, and the
second Donohue as W. and W.P. An item
in the profit and loss account reads: “De-
partment of Army—compensation for
occupancy of racecourse property,
£3310 16s. lid.” Most of it went in “ex-
penses of management and administra-
tion, etc., including directors’ fees £4OO,
office upkeep, legal expenses, allowances
for depreciation (£54 15s. 4d.), fees and
costs incurred relating to claims in respect
of occupation of and damage to race-
course property by Military Forces,
£2795 7s. 9d.” The only details are those
given in brackets.
In the balance-sheet “claim for com-
pensation against Sydney Turf Club”
figures among the assets. All other assets
are reckoned in pounds, shillings and
pence, but here the entry is “Unable to
estimate.” There is another entry on the
liabilities side;
Contingent liability.—Compensation pay-
able to Mr. W. P. Donohue under contract
of employment Amount not determined.
To this and the other “claim for com-
pensation” there are references in the
directors’ report:. —
As regards the claim for compensation
against the Sydney Turf Club the directors
can give little information other than to
tell you that the question of a claim has
been considered but a claim has not yet
been made. There is also a claim for com-
pensation due to Mr. W. P, Donohue for


loss under his contract of employment
which is the subject for consideration by
your directors.
Sections 17 and 18 of the Sydney Turf
Club Act provide for compensation of
proprietors and employees of racecourses
“precluded from being licensed for the
year 1945”: —
17 (2) In assessing the compensation to
be awarded to proprietors regard may be
had to the amount of capital actually ex-
pended on improvements and ; to the....
value of the land for subdivision and
sale
(3) In ascertaining the compensation to
be awarded... .any compensation over and
above the compensation assessed under
(2) shall be limited to a payment for good-
will not exceeding three years’ purchase of
the average net profits for 15 years
immediately preceding 1945.
(6) The officers and servants who, before
Jan. 1, 1945, were continuously employed
shall be entitled to receive compensa-
tion.... to the extent following only. .. .an
amount equivalent to one month’s pay at
the rate subsisting immediately before the
said day for each complete year of service
with the proprietors.
Mr. W. P. Donohue, it seems, is claim-
ing 13 years’ salary as Victoria Park sec-
retary at £13 a week, but is willing to
take £3500. If he gets it on the recom-
mendation of his brother, himself and
Mr. Cunningham (“ ‘Labor’ every time”!)
he will be batting on a wonderful wicket.
Meanwhile the University Senate and
Professorial Board may, with the weird
expectancy said to be the dominant note
of the Australian bush, await “Labor’s”
claim, as expressed by Mr. Cunningham, to
“an effective voice in the curriculum,” and
the possible arrival of that gentleman as
Racing or Racecourse Gambling Professor,
Roses and Raptures.
An A.A.P. dispatch on the state of
Palestine in the fifth week of partition
(on paper), with the dead (Arabs, Jews
and Britons) approaching a thousand: —
Life is disrupted. Traffic has practically
ceased to run; towns and villages are dead
from sunrise to sunset; fear rules the
country.
And all this only three weeks after Dr
Evatt, as the great architect of partition,
received the congratulations of the Zionist
Federation, and those of politicians and
“clergymen of various denominations,” at
the Maccabean Hail, Sydney. Flowers of
oratory handed to him on that occasion:
Mr. A. Landa, M.L.A. (“representing
Premier McGirr”); I, who was at Lake
Success [dollar expenditure, sanctioned by<
“Labor,” unstated], am perhaps more quali-
fied than any man in this room to judge
the tremendous work done there by our
great Australian statesman Dr. Evatt.
Mr. Benzion Patkin: Dr. Evatt has be-
come the voice of justice and honor in
the international councils of the world.
Bishop Pilcher: Dr. Evatt brought home
57 refractory steeds —a typically Australian
feat of horsemanship.
Mr. Max Freilich: Such men as Dr.
Evatt not only bring glory to Australia but
are produced by the greatness of the
Australian people.
Rabbi Porush: Dr. Evatt is an instrument
of God.
Assuredly “God moves in a mysterious
way His wonders to perform.”
“It has been stated that the partition
proposal cannot work, because it contains
no provision for its enforcement.” Thus
Dr. Evatt between cheers, posies, the song
“Hatikvah” and the toasting of “the
Jewish State.” “Those who talk or write
in this strain,” he proceeded, “forget or do
not know that the Security Council has
the right and duty to intervene.” He him-
self chose to forget what he said about
“the appalling position of helplessness”
to which the Security Council had been
reduced by the Russian veto. Like the
young woman in the song, he “forgets
to remember” a lot of things.
Showdown in Victoria.
Strike-leaders with Irish names (they
are not necessarily all of Irish origin) may
call themselves Communists or anti-Com-
munists, but when it comes to hitting the
public in the eye they are all one.
The last old-man Sydney wharf strike,
the one in which protesting politicians
were bashed at a Domain meeting, was
run by Coughlan (president) and Ferry
(secretary), with Healy, Roach and
Moran rushing on from the wings and
McGirr emitting feeble “noises off.” The
latest Queensland rail strike was directed
by O’Brien (president) and Nolan (secre-
tary). The leaders of the Melbourne tram
and bus strikers are Cullen (president) and
O’Shea (secretary).
Smith, Jones and Robinson are tired of
all this. So are Premier Hollway and his
colleagues, and a testing-time has arrived.
Egged on by Cullen and O’Shea, with
Brown, the Communist boss of the Rail-
waymen’s Union, wagging his jaw and
waving his arms as is his custom on such
occasions, the Tramway Board men in
effect struck for the right to work the 40-
hour week, that apple of discord, as they
chose. In the main they are good people
if left alone, and chairman Bell spoke
to them in a fatherly fashion, turning to
express in good sabre-cuts of Saxon
speech what he thought of their Com-
munists and militant “moderates.”
The strike went on. Dr. Evatt’s “new
streamlined arbitration,” which was going
to do such wonderful things, was invoked
to no purpose. Commissioner Blackburn,
V.C., summoned from Adelaide to “hear
the dispute,” refused to oblige until the
men had returned to work, saying in
forthright sentences that their union
hadn’t a leg to stand on and that, whereas
the Board had “complied with an order of
the Full Court,” Cullen and O’Shea had
repudiated a specific assurance that “no
direct action” was “contemplated.” Mr.
Hollway himself refused to sell the pass
to union larrikinism, and announced that
the Government was arranging temporary
bus and car services to give the travelling
public at least part of what the strikers
and their bosses were denying it.
At the week-end Cullen was reported
to have issued the sinister threat that
tramwaymen would “meet emergency
traffic plans with force, if necessary.”
Perhaps scared at his own audacity, he
denied the “force, if necessary” bit and
whined that “the relations of tramway-
men and policemen are very happy.”
The immediate issue remained ; it was, in
Mr. Hollway’s expression, whether
“jungle law” or industrial law would pre-
vail. The larger issue, implicit in all
these explosions of union larrikinism, is
whether any country can accept the pre-
tensions of a unionism which claims
to be greater than State or Common-
wealth, and which rejects all obliga-
tions to fellow-citizens, without having a
civil war on its hands sooner or later.
And to a country like Australia civil war
would be fatal.
Spare the Stones!
While regarding with impotent conster-
nation the prospect of having a host of
wars on its hands —there are three in
Asia and one in Europe already—that
august organisation too hastily christened
the United Nations has been planning its
“permanent home” in New York. The
cost, reckoned at £28,000,000 last August,
has been pruned down to £22,000,000, as
being “more consistent with present
world economic conditions,” exclusive of
the Rockefeller gift of the site, five acres
in the centre of New York City.
A description of the building as repre-
sented by a model shown at the Assembly
and recorded from an American source
in Melbourne “Herald”:
Facades of sheer plate-glass, 40 storeys
high and 100 yards wide, cross-hatched with
narrow bands of stainless steel. Each of
the four broad faces of the Secretariat and
delegations’ towers shown as vast windows,
leaded, with a light supporting framework
of steel or alloy; great glass panes rising
from ground to roof level, and emphasised
by narrow end walls of light-colored
marble, without any window openings.
The building has a convex facade over-
looking a central plaza and a curved face
segmented by 10 rectangular pillars, behind
which is to be a wall of glass backed by
galleries. From these delegates and visitors
would look down upon a “landscaped
promenade.” Heating coils under the foot-
paths will prevent snow from gathering
thereon.
The interior air-conditioned to maintain
70-78 degrees Fahrenheit all the year round.
Sound-absorbing material to insulate all
halls and rooms, also 300 radio and sound
booths.
The only delegate who said he liked
the thing was that professional stone-
thrower Gromyko, but, then, the repre-
sentative of the Soviet is, by all the signs,
not expected to outrage the old maxim
by living in it.
That Petrol Case.
Amidst their general gloom about having
their petrol chopped down in December,
motorists heard from Senator Ashley
(Supply and Shipping) that he was about
to lead his cohorts in a charge on petrol
racketeers with all the ferocity of Senna-
cherib descending upon the Israelites.
Mr. Ashley faded away without doing
anything more than starting a mild dis-
turbance. On December 27 it was put out
that “large quantities of forged petrol
tickets” had been “found by inspectors,”
and that the owners of the names upon
them would be “interrogated immedi-
ately.” All that apparently happened
was that one (1) service-station owner in
Melbourne had his licence cancelled for
allegedly having forged tickets in his
possession, his crime apparently being
that he failed to “check them.” How a
garage attendant engaged on a job in
which speed is the essence of the con-
tract is to tell the difference between a
forged and a genuine ticket wasn’t ex-
plained.
A few days later there were protests
from many quarters. The protestants
wanted to know by what right the Fuel
Board could take away a man’s living
without first bringing him to open court
and proving his guilt. One of them was
Mr. Fraser, M.H.R. for Eden-Monaro, a
“Labor” electorate which the Chifley
bank grab has shaken badly.
Mr. Ashley leapt to the defence of his
officers. The man had been warned six
times for alleged petrol breaches and his
licence had been suspended three times.
He had been “allowed” to go before the
Victorian Fuel Board and state his case.
Mr. Ashley’s officers had therefore been
“justified” in destroying the livelihood of
the only alleged offender landed in a
“dragnet petrol blitz,” supposed to rage
from coast to coast.
A bad case is made worse by excuses
which can be shot full of holes on sight.
“OUT, DAMNED ‘SCAB’!”
"The Olivier-Leigh season of Shakspeare and Sheridan in the Tivoli, Sydney, is objected to by Actors Equity on union principles.'"
“English, eh, and got no union ticket? Then you can’t come in.


;w;
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in 10 9 s & 20’s
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
mm
4
G 744
POLITICAL POINTS
Golden Age? No —Goldberg Age.
Holidaymakers at Jervis Bay (N.S.W.)
could scarcely believe their eyes when a
Federal “Labor” Minister arrived among
them in a Rolls-Royce. It had not been
supposed that a Rolls-Royce was among
the fluid-drive Chryslers and Buicks
bought by “Labor” for its own use and
that of staffs and friends, though McKell
has one and the Soviet Minister another.
Garden has been bailed on the three
charges entered against him, in each case
by summons, in the Special Federal Court,
Sydney. Shand, K.C., for the Crown,
stated that the charges centred in a letter
relative to “the purported sale of a licence
to mill timber in the Bulolo Valley, New
Guinea,” as a result of which “£50,000
was paid by a Queensland company to
certain persons, of whom the defendant
was one.” Simon Isaacs, for Garden, said
that the only document of which his
client had any knowledge was one signed
by him on November 20, 1945, “E. J.
Ward, per pro J. S. Garden” ; to which
Mr. Shand replied “That is the letter.”
Before the proceedings were adjourned to
January 21 Mr. Isaacs said Garden had
“a good defence.”
Thus the representative of a Swedish
firm which has a plan for exporting
410,000 timber houses annually to Aus-
tralia :
The proposal is for Federal Government
initiative in importing and erecting the
houses.
That settles it. Expecting initiative from
the political stalactites at Canberra would
be equivalent to hoping to strike a pearl
in a hard-boiled egg.
Worn and weary, Melbourne citizens
staggered into the week-end with no signs
of a settlement of the tram strike. Con-
ciliation Commissioner Blackburn, finish-
ing off first a case in Adelaide because,
as he said, the people involved were ob-
serving the arbitration principle, arrived
in Melbourne on Friday morning. He
instantly called the parties before him,
and a few hours later told the tram-men
that as they had refused and still refused
to adopt the means provided in the award
for redress of grievances, he declined to
hear them until they were back at work.
The union’s retort was to order 6000
strikers to report to their depots for
picket duty in case the Hollways resorted
to emergency transport. Meantime
Brown, of the A.R.U., was heard com-
plaining of the “intolerable strain” im-
posed on the railwaymen by the heavy
increase in rail travel. The intolerable
strain imposed on the general public by
two recent train strikes the - gentleman
didn’t mention.
The first week of Year Two, Golden
Age, opened with a rash of strikes and
threats, some against rosters arranged
for the 40-hour week, some for higher
wages. Strikes of Adelaide street-
cleaners (eight days out); of meat-workers
at Sydney Government abattoirs (out for
a week); of maintenance men, building-
workers, who could close the abattoirs
completely in a few days’ time; of Mel-
bourne tramway- and busmen ; of Mel-
bourne ship-painters and dockers; of ship-
painters in Sydney and Newcastle also and
of undertakers’ laborers in Sydney. The
unions are all pressing for a five-day
week, which shows every sign of being
unworkable as for general observance.
The new streamlined “arbitration,” with
slick working conciliators instead of
the Court, was guaranteed by Dr. Evatt
to forestall such disputes or stop them in
“quick” time.
O’Shea, secretary of the Melbourne
Tramwaymen’s Union, who, with his
(A.L.P.) president Cullen, held up Mel-
bourne’s trams all last week, is a Com-
munist, as is the railwaymen’s secretary.
Brown. The two blatherskites have offices
at Unity Hall, Bourke-street, By all
accounts O’Shea pays Brown rent and in
return receives plenty of instructions.
Apropos of O’Shea, Tramways Board
chairman Bell told his strikifig employees
that their executive did not wish to settle
the dispute (“the Communist party could
not exist without disputes and griev-
ances”). Apropos of Brown, Old and
New Digger Hughes, now Minister of
Transport, said the fellow had “rushed
into print with an accusation of trickery,”
and would be off the map unless he
apologised. In the U.S.A., under the
Taft-Hartley Act, O’Shea and Brown
would be powerless to make war on the
community, and would have to betake
themselves to their natural implement, the
pick.
In Queensland under the 44-hour
week tea-breaks and other disturb-
ances gave a weekly average of
35 to 38 hours’ actual work. According
to the Employers’ Federation, this
may be reduced to 29i hours under the
40-hour week. With no increase in annual
holidays, no absenteeism and no more idle
time about the best that- can be hoped
for is 30 to 33 hours of actual work.
Perhaps the best thing would be for all
to work at week-ends and take the rest
of the week off.
Just how and why Chifley’s “Golden
Age” changes its plumage in mid-flight
—like Our Foreign Policy—and becomes
an incipient “recession” is now explained
by the G.A. artist himself. To unionists
the G.A. means full employment on high
wages with less work. They’ve got that —
the “Government” constantly tells them
so. The “Government,” too, is rolling in
money from taxes —more than ever. But
though the only possible incentive to
higher production is a lowering of taxes,
Chifley says that if he lowered them he
would be leaving the people with too
much money, and that would lead to in-
flation, which in turn would cause a “re-
cession.” So, although he has more of the
public’s money than he wants, he can’t
do anything about it, unless the electors
let him regiment everybody’s daily life a
lot more even than now; and then they
will have a better time than ever. If it all
sounds like sawdust to them, they are an
ungrateful lot.
Chifley protests that although the horde
of Federal public servants is still increas-
ing—another* 900 were added in October,
the latest recorded month —he “sees
little chance of reducing the number of
those that could be described as per-
manent.” The man talks as though he
were addressing the feeble-minded. Many
“temporary” public servants have been
so described for 20 years. Others have
retired at the age limit and been super-
annuated like any “permanent.” Mean-
while the Public Service Federation is
not only demanding higher pay and re-
ceiving “offers,” but also (according to
a South Aus. official) is pursuing an
agreed demand for a 35-hour week of five
days. The plain truth is that Chifley will
never reduce either taxation or public-
service numbers. His socialisation policy
obliges him perpetually to be increasing
both.
Fifty tons of lead had to be moved
from one hold to another in a vessel
berthed at Brisbane. Wharfies unloaded
the stuff from the first hold and loaded
it on the lorries of a carrying firm, whose
men hauled it about 30 yards along the
wharf. They were about to unload it
into the other hold when a union
“official” arrived, eyed the job and de-
cided that the union should be “repre-
sented” on the lorries by a stalwart
unionist riding on each truck. The
carriers objected, and work stopped at
once. Enter the Port Committee chair-
man, who “conceded the union’s de-
mand.” Strange to say, the wharfies
didn’t stick out for “riding money.”
Nothing that Ashley or his multitude
of petrol-rationing “officers” have said
in all their stuff about forged petrol
tickets and reduced allowances and black-
marketing alters the facts of the situa-
tion: (1) There is no need for herds of
“officers” or the printing of vast numbers
of petrol tickets, consumers’ licences and
so forth. (2) While the ticket system per-
sists there’ll be juggling of tickets, mis-
use of licences and “black” petrol.
Anybody foolish enough to die late on
Thursday or early on Friday in N. S.
Wales will either have to be rushed
straight to the grave or crematorium or
be left lying round the house until Mon-
day. The Undertakers’ Assistants and
Cemetery Employees’ Union will w6rk
only Mondays to Fridays, and to the
devil with “streamlined arbitration”!
It would almost seem there that there
was a conspiracy to exaggerate 1947 coal
production in Britain and Australia. In
spite of all the gas and gaiters, the
“nationalised” U.K. mines failed to reach
the very modest target of 200,000,000 tons
set by Shinwell before he had to make
way for Gaitskell, that deathless
opponent of daily baths. In the nineteen-
thirties output was round 230,000,000
tons (240,400,000 in 1937), giving Britain
a. , substantial export trade, which has
vanished under Labor-socialism. In
N. S. Wales, an output of 11,600,000 tons
was proclaimed “a near-record” by the
Communist-controlled Miners’ Federa-
tion. Actually, allowing for open-cut pro-
duction, increasing mechanisation and
“back Saturdays,” worked at double pay,
it was a poor result compared with the
11,618,000 tons turned out in 1924 and
the 10,400,000 tons averaged in 1912 and
1913. In both countries coal is frightfully
dear and is often of poor quality.
An unusual news item out of London,
carefully pondered, should give the
British people—and their Australian kins-
folk —an alarming view of their future
under socialism. It is to the effect that
long-term women prisoners, before dis-
charge, are “conditioned” as to the
changed way of life “outside,” including
lessons in how to join and stand in a
queue. In effect, “Socialism in our time”
is to be socialism for all time.
The “Tribune” came out with a savage
attack on “S. M. Herald” for retrenching
staff. No retrenchment should be neces-
sary on the “Tribune.” Communist
papers don’t have to show a profit; party
funds look after them ; and, on visual evi-
dence, at any rate, newsprint restrictions
don’t apply to them. At January 10
“Tribune” was still putting out the same
sized paper as before the cuts, and still
urging its star salesmen to sell more
copies. “Tory” papers have had to cut
circulation as well as size.
Contemplating the new reign of terror
in Palestine, from which the murder advo-
cate Ben Hecht (still permitted to draw
dollars from this country) is conspicuously
absent, Australians should spare a kind
thought for their fellow-citizens of the
Jewish faith who never had any use for
political Zionism. At the head of these
good Australians stands Isaac Isaacs, who
predicted what has come to pass, and who
on that account was attacked in a series of
articles by the 1942 immigrant Professor
Julius Stone, and denounced by Sydney
Zionists at a public meeting, his name
being hooted—presumably by other im-
migrants. The Hebrew “Standard,” while
giving the Stone faction ample space,
has at no time compromised on its faith
in Britain, And there is a brave and
well-written anti-Zionist periodical pub-
lished in Perth.
In the first paragraph of an illustrated
article in the New York “Times Maga-
zine” Judith Anderson is styled “Ameri-
ca’s foremost tragic actress.” Miss Ander-
son is, of course, an Australian, born in
Adelaide, and she had a thorough ground-
ing in stage work before she ever saw
America. The Australian theatre was a
living thing then. Now there is little for
promising actresses but radio plays, in
which they are expected to gabble at the
rate of 150 words a minute after one (1)
rehearsal. And though Judith Ander-
son’s postal address is given in Who's
Who in the Theatre as Actors’ Equity,
New York, if she proposed to return to
Australia with a company of her own the
“Australian” Actors’ Equity (spiritual
address, Moscow) wouldn’t let her appear.
These fell Imperialists outside the Iron
Curtain are bent on attacking Russia
again. After all Moscow is merely trying
to force neighbors to accept what Stalin
thinks is good for them, and the return
for these good offices is aggression.
Persia’s is of the well-known sort that
refuses to accept an oil-agreement made
under duress ; and a suspicious similarity
is to be noted there to such warmonger-
ing States as Turkey and Greece, whose
criminal designs against Moscow are re-
vealed in refusal to endure traitors in
Cabinet posts. This disposition offers the
clearest evidence of imperialist designs
against the Soviet which are a grave
menace to peace and security.
According to the Government Statis-
tician, Townsville is the dearest Queens-
land town in which to live, cost of living
being 4 p.c. above Brisbane, while Bunda-
berg, the cheapest, is 2 p.c. lower. No-
body is quite sure what this proves, ex-
cept that Bundaberg makes a very good
brand of rum.
Replying in the Commons to a question
on strikes, in Singapore and the hinter-
land, Minister Creech-Jones said trade-
union officials who dictated policy there
were disgruntled ex-clerks, schoolmasters
and others who had never worked in the
industries they represented. Australia is
only too familiar with that kind of gentry.
Queensland “Labor’s” new idea for
“co-ordinating” transport is a law pre-
venting road-carriers charging less than
the railways on competitive routes.
Carriers were then told that, instead of
the 3d.-a-ton mileage tax, they would in
future have to pay 20 p.c. of their gross
earnings for the right to run their trucks.
The Minister, Duggan, rubbed salt into
wounds by explaining that “the policy is
not to run licensees off the road provided
they comply with the law.”
Some of these “Labor” chaps have been
trying to discount the borough elections
in which British “Labor” got a shocking
beating in England, Wales and Scotland,
pleading that they’re only councils any-
how and of little import. Actually the
municipal franchise is identical with the
Parliamentary franchise, and British
councils attend to duties almost as im-
portant as those of Australian State Gov-
ernments :
Elementary education; maintenance of
roads and bridges; agriculture animal
disease, destructive insects and pests, land
drainage, fertilisers and feeding stuffs, small
holdings and allotments; mental hospitals
and public health; maternal and child wel-
fare; care of rivers; supervision of food
supplies; police. Urban districts cover
cemeteries, libraries* public baths, parks,
museums, hospitals, gas, electricity, water
and trams. Boroughs control elementary
education, poor relief, statistics, health and
so forth. ■
Anyone who would argue that “Labor”
politics don’t count in a set-up like that
needs his brains brushed.
Words with a bearing on Canberra’s
second Powers referendum, for which
Communists are campaigning already;
Every time the national Government
takes over a new field of social service
which the States could do we have lost a
part of our system of self-government by
surrender to a distant power. Any Gov-
ernment can levy taxes until they become
so burdensome that they destroy the source.
Any Government can socialise or Com-
munise all its charity, its industry, its agri-
culture and then the lives of its people.
But only under a free Government can we
maintain those works of welfare and mercy
which are conceived and maintained by the
voluntary efforts of individual? —the out-
ward demonstration of an inner greatness
of spirit which makes possible the institu-
tion of human liberty.
They were uttered by Governor Dewey,
of New York, in the course of an appeal
to Americans to take warning from “the
spectacle of the Communist monster
pouring out a stream of malicious false-
hood and calumny and feeding on the
plight of oppressed peoples.”


H
fj '\\\\°
A' '
STltt KEEPS GOINS WHEN
EXIDE IS THE GREATEST NAME
IN THE BATTERY WORLD
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD., 44 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
. ■
PERSONAL ITIMS
Retired after saving soldiers’ lives in
two world wars, Major-General S. R.
Burston, C. 8., C.8.E., D. 5.0., Director-
General of Medical Services, Australian
Military Forces, is now looking back on
34 years with the A.A.M.C. Known to
all Diggers from privates to brasshats,
he showed the same courage with them
in France in 1917 as in Greece and
Crete with the Sixth Divvy in 1941.
Educated at Melbourne Grammar School
and the Melbourne University, he was
appointed a captain in the A.A.M.C. in
1913. Five years later he was a colonel
with the C.B.E. and D.S.O. ribbons. Be-
tween wars he carried on private practice
in Adelaide, but he had too many pals
in the services to sever his connection alto-
gether, so he took the appointment of
Deputy-Director of Medical Services for
South Australia. Early in 1940 he was
seconded to the A.1.F., leaving for the
Middle East later in the year. Return-
ing from Java in 1942 he gained the top
medical appointment of the A.M.F., and
was appointed honorary physician to the
King three years later.
Spending five weeks in these parts look-
ing over the iron and steel industry and
taking a peep at the rocket range, Lieul,-
General Ronald Morce Weeks hopes to
take back to Britain a clear picture of
this country’s possible part in Empire de-
fence. He is deputy-chairman of Vickers,
Ltd., and from 1942 to 1945 was Deputy-
Chief of the Imperial General Staff.
Weeks was born in 1890 and had just left
Cambridge, where he was captain of
soccer, when the First World War broke
out. He saw it through, won a D. 5.0.,
M.C. and bar, a French Croix de Guerre
and was three times mentioned in dis-
patches. In the second war he was
Director-General of Army Equipment be-
fore becoming deputy-chief, and after the
German surrender he put in a short
period as Chief-of-Staff of the Control
Commission for Germany.
Charitable grants and research bequests
by Lord Nuffield have become so common
that nowadays they don’t, seem to be
news any longer. Latest handout is
£50,000 to Lincoln College, Oxford, to
endow three research fellowships in
science and allied medicine, commemo-
rating the discovery of the healing pro-
perties of penicillin in the Sir William
Dunn School of Pathology. Head of the
school is Professor Florey, formerly of
Adelaide, and a Fellow of Lincoln Col-
lege.
Richard Tauber, dead suddenly in
London at 57, had for a quarter of a
century been one of the world’s great
tenors, but he began his musical career
as a conductor, and had just completed
a London season as conductor of
operettas when he died. Born at Linz in
Austria, son of the manager of the State
Theatre of Saxony, he was conducting
at 18. In 1912 he made his first appear-
ance in opera—in Dresden, as Tamino
in “The Magic Flute” ; 16 years later he
chose the same part for his opening per-
formance at Covent Garden, and it was
as an interpreter of Mozart’s music that
he really became famous. He had a long
string of European successes in light
opera behind him when he decided to
make Britain his home, and he followed
up his London season with concert tours
in South Africa, Australia and U.S.A.,
where he was already well-known through
the gramophone and radio. He had
planned another Australian tour this
year., Tauber became a British citizen
in 1940; he had already married Diana
Napier, who had appeared with him in
one of his British films.
In Melbourne, seeking to have his
pastoral leases in N.T. —larger than the
area of Holland —extended beyond the
original 42-year limit, is Lord Vestey. He
has another interest in these parts in
his daughter-in-law, the Hon. Mrs. Pamela
Vestey, widow of Captain William
Howarth Vestey, Scots Guards, who was
killed in Italy in 1944. She was Pamela
Armstrong, granddaughter of Nellie
Melba, who left her a large slice of her
fortune and Coomb Cottage, the Spanish
Mission mansion at Coldstream, near
Lilydale, where the Mitchell money was
made and is still being made out of
limestone. Pamela’s six-year-old son,
Samuel, is heir to the Vestey title.
Dubois complained that the subject of
this sketch was almost uncaricaturable —
his features were too regular—but no one
who has had dealings with the British
Trade Commissioner in Sydney should
have any difficulty in recognising the
counterfeit presentment of John Roland
TRADE COMMISSIONER.
Adams, who has held that post since 1945.
Son of a Dundee Scot, Adams was born
at West Hartlepool, Durham, 53 years ago,
and after four years in the Army during
the Kaiser’s War joined the Department
of Overseas Trade in 1918. Sent to Bom-
bay as assistant Trade Commissioner he
held the same position in Singapore and
Montreal—he still has pleasant memories
of his four years in Canada. —before
coming to Australia in 1927. After 10
years in the Sydney office he was trans-
ferred to Brisbane as Trade Commis-
sioner ; 1945 saw his return to Sydney,
W. H. Beare, retired Chief Officer of
N.S.W. Fire Brigades, joined the service
40 years ago, when fire-engines drawn by
spanking horses with harness adorned
with shining brass thrilled the small boys
of the time every bit as much as the speedy
juggernauts of the present day thrill their
grandchildren. A recruit of the same
vintage was E. J. Griffiths, who succeeds
Beare as Fire Chief. Griffiths is an Old
Digger—he was in the Landing at Anzac
—and played Rugby League for Eastern
Suburbs when Dally Messenger was cap-
tain.
Bobby Gibbes, formerly Wing-Com-
mander R. H. Gibbes, D. 5.0., D.F.C. and
bar, dropped in at Brisbane recently on his
way back to New Guinea, where he is
running an air service which so far no
one. has attempted to “nationalise.”
Operating from Wewak in an Auster
monoplane, which can land on and take
off from a large-sized pocket handker-
chief if no small-sized tablecloth is avail-
able, Bobby flies goods to trading-posts
in the Sepik area. He has established
posts at Beruy and Yamil and plans to
open up others.
Professor Frederick Alexander, M.A.
(Oxon), Perth University’s first occupant
of its new chair of history, is a Victorian.
Born at Blackflat in 1899 and educated
at Melbourne University and Balliol,
Oxford, he has a variety of distinctions.
He was Rockefeller Fellow in Social
Science in 1939 and was attached to the
Australian Legation at Washington as
the Minister’s personal assistant in 1940.
He wrote From Paris to Locarno and
After in 1928, contributed thei chapter on
“Australia Since the War” to the Cam-
bridge History of the Empire and did
Part I of “Australia’s War Effort” in The
British Commonwealth at War in New
York in 1943. He joined the Perth Uni-
versity staff in 1924 and has been head
of the department of history since 1937.
Advocating that Botanic Gardens
should be educational rather than recrea-
tional areas, T. R. N. Lothian moves
over from Maoriland to succeed H.
Greaves, who retires as director of the
Adelaide Botanic Garden, Before the
war Lothian toured Europe and spent two
years at the Royal Botanic Gardens,
Kew. He served in the army and super-
vised farm work in New Guinea, and
has lately been senior lecturer in horti-
culture at the Lincoln Agricultural Col-
lege, Christchurch (M.L.).
Commander Robert G. A. Jackson,
C. has been named U.N.O. assistant
secretary-general on a salary of £4220
p.a. and an expense account not much
less. Commander Jackson was born in
Melbourne in 1911, educated at Mentone
Grammar School and went from there
into the Navy. In 1937 he was a staff
officer in Malta, and a few years later
was helping to defend that beleaguered
island from Italian blitzes as Co-ordina-
tor of Supplies and chairman of the De-
fence Committee. In the Middle East he
was Director-General of Supply and
principal assistant to R. G. Casey. He
was senior deputy director-general of
U.N.R.R.A., and when that organisation
was nearing its end he was called before
a Congressional committee in Washing-
ton to state the case for a further grant.
His evidence moved the tough Congress-
men to vote further funds.
Woolcott, who has drawn many carica-
tures of naval types for this page, him-
self earns a mention this week. For
many years he has been the R.A.N.’s
Senior Dental Officer, and the New Year
promotion-list saw him advance to the
rank of Surgeon- Captain. He is the first
man to hold this rank in the R.A.N., and
it is a tribute to both his efficiency and
his personality that the Naval Board has
decided to raise the status' of the head of
its dental branch. Alfred Richard Wool-
cott is a Sydney Grammar and Uni. pro-
duct from Manly. His success with bat
and ball when playing for “Grummur”
against the Naval College at Jervis Bay
probably warmed his heart towards the
Navy, for he lost no time in joining up
after graduation—he holds the degree of
D. A good athlete, he repped for
the Navy at cricket, tennis and rugger,
but a broken leg made his football career
.a short one. His outstanding physical
characteristic is a chin which Jack Hul-
bert or Billy Grime, the old-time boxer,
might envy.
During the war Mcßeath, then holding
a R.A.A.F. commission, once noticed an
A.C.W. in a despondent mood because,
as she explained, “I’ve just seen my daddy
off.” When Mcßeath visited the Mel-
bourne home of Captain M. W. Mathers
to do this sketch a large photo, of a
W.A.A.A.F. attracted his attention ; and
he recognised in Captain Mathers’s
daughter the despondent A.C.W. Born
to the sea in England Captain Mathers
served in War I as a R.N. lieutenant on
small ships in Mespot, “foolin’ round the
Tigris and the lakes.” War finished, he
went to the A.U.S.N., and before joining
up again was its marine superintendent,
NAVY AND MERCHANT SERVICE.
supervising the building of Corinda,
Biijgera and other ships, fie commanded
the Bingera when she was taken over by
the Navy. Commander of H.M.A.S.
Kangaroo when the Japs air-raided Dar-
win, he chased around picking up sur-
vivors—43 in the first raid. In New
Guinea as sea - transport officer he sal-
vaged five ships and during landing
operations beached 12 L.S.Ts. He has
the U.S, Medal of Freedom and Palm —
for foreigners it equals the Legion of
Merit —for piloting 100 of Uncle Sam’s
vessels. Picking up small craft in Aus-
tralian ports and sailing them to war
ports was another of the multitudinous
jobs he handled. Trained in sailing-ships
in his youth, he is now a shipbroker.
Fred Raven, Victoria’s pioneer ambu-
lance administrator, who ran the first five
T-model Ford invalid transports in the
early 1920’5, has retired as secretary of
the St. John’s Ambulance Association of
Victoria. He took up ambulance work
soon after he arrived in 1918. His
anecdotes would fill a book. There’s
hardly a doctor in Melbourne who has
not come across this solid Englishman
some way or other. He is succeeded by
Alex Christie, former Assistant-Director-
General of Medical Services.
If two former officers of the A.I.F.
have their way 1948 will see Victoria’s
much-delayed library reform at last be-
come a reality. Early in the New Year,
Lieut. - Colonel Frank Perry, 8.A.,
assumes the role of registrar and principal
of Melbourne Library’s training school,
and Captain Gordon Stewart, 8.A., will
have his Free Library Service Board
functioning. He was appointed secretary
in November. Perry’s job will be to train
men and women for the libraries created
by Stewart in country areas.
The tragic crash of a Liberator at
Mascot in July, 1945, when a number of
naval officers lost their lives, is recalled
by the award of the George Medal to
Gordon William Knowles for outstanding
bravery in his attempt to rescue some of
the occupants. In spite of blazing petrol
Knowles dived into the wreckage, pulled
out one body singlehanded and, with
assistance, two others, after which he col-
lapsed from burns and carbon-monoxide
poisoning. A stout effort of which little
has been heard, it also earned him the
Gold Medal of the Royal Shipwreck and
Humane Society, the first awarded for 14
years, and the Bronze Medallion of St.
John’s Ambulance, the only one in Aus-
tralia and the first to be awarded for 20
years.
“Friday Island”; Australia has lost
a unique character in Dr. Stewart McKay.
His poker face mounted on a big body
concealed a nimble brain and manual
dexterity, for Stewart McKay was the
surgeon who helped to make Lewisham
Hospital famous. Trained under Lawson
Tait, one of the founders of gyntecology,
he had other interests: horseracing,
breeding of bloodstock, Dante—he pre-
sented 500 Dante books to Sydney Uni-
versity—and Sydney’s Paris House, where
he regularly ate gargantuan meals with
the good taste of a food connoisseur. An
expert diagnostician and a quick operator,
he had a slow, penetrating wit. He once
remarked at Paris House concerning a
restless female: “I’ll avoid that lady’s
table ; I do not like the ovarian gleam in
her eye.” After retirement from Sydney
he went to Lismore, where he died last
week at 81.
Into the Silence;
At Sandringham (Vic.), at 81, Edgar Mount-
joy, for more than half a century a pioneer
of Lome, where his father erected the first
hotel and store. Edgar managed his father’s
cattle-run, and in his day was reckoned the best
musterer in rough country in the Otway Forest.
Later he bought and salved the wreck of the
American ship W. B. Godfrey near Apollo
Bay, and owned a fleet of trading cutters and
ketches.
In Melbourne, at 52, Captain Roderick Mc-
Lennan, Scottish skipper of the Duntroon, one
of Australia’s best-known seamen, at sea since
15. For the Melbourne Steamship Co. he
skippered Ellaroo, Coolana, Mernoo and
Lowana, before succeeding Captain Lloyd in
Duntroon.
la Auckland (M.L.), at 75, Robert Chisholm
Horton, director of Wilson and Horton, pub-
lishers of the “Herald,” “Weekly News” and
other publications.
In London, at 82, William Aloysius Gavin,
who in 1897 flew from Britain to Norway in
a balloon and later founded the International
Sporting Club, New York.
In Geelong, at 58, Ramsay B. Cook, news-
paper proprietor and company director. His
lifelong association with the Geelong “Adver-
tiser” extended to the chairmanship of Aus-
tralian United Press, Provincial Daily Press
Association and Australian Provincial Press.
At Plumpton, Kent, England, Dr. W. J.
Jenner, aged 78. Born at Bathurst (N.S.W.),
he became a dispenser at Newcastle, then
qualified as a medico at Edinburgh University.
Later he studied at Brussels and received his
Belgian M.D. Practised in London, came home
and set up his plate at Leichhardt (N.S.W.).
He returned to England on the death of his
father, and practised at Plumpton until he re-
tired 10 years ago.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”; It was New Year’s Eve
in Sydney, and the tram-conductor, rol-
licking towards Circular Quay, was too
full of brotherly love and beer to dream
of collecting fares. He swayed on the
footboard, joining in the choruses of
“Auld Lang Syne” and shaking hands
with equally hilarious passengers. “Good
old conductor —Happy New Year, con-
ductor ! ” shouted the passengers; and
then, from a generous soul waving a hat,
“Take up a collection for him!” The
suggestion met with roars of approval.
A penny here, threepence, a shilling—the
money fell into the hat. Inspired, the
owner of the hat climbed past the beam-
ing conductor and along to the next com-
partment, The coppers and the silver
coins fell as thickly as before. Still in-
spired, he clambered along the footboard
to the next and the next compartments,
radiating goodwill and ardently collect-
ing for the good old conductor; to the
open compartments at the far end, still
collecting; and then, in a final burst of
inspiration, the generous soul quietly
jumped from the tram and, with his hat
and his collection, vanished.
“Spike”: On the morning train trip
from my outmost Sydney suburb I find
entertainment in an array of chalked-up
signs exhorting me to do everything from
changing my politics to using a patent
salve for rheumatics. Nearing Central
station the railway workers have their
fling with cryptiQ messages like “McKell
XXX” or “See Clarrie for Grog.” Last
week I struck a new one —and in serious
vein. In 6in. letters on the side of a
stationary locomotive it proclaimed:
“Could not couple tender, Four inches
too low, blast it! ”
* * * *
“X.Q.X.”; My guard-mounting entry
(B. 10/12/’47). In England in 1940 one
of our engineer units was camped on
Salisbury Plain, surrounded by British
units and with the front gate on a main
road. Naturally in such a setting they
were impelled to make the changing of
the guard an impressive ceremony, and
they soon had a settled and inflexible
drill for it. As the relief marched up
the two sentries would be standing
stiffly to attention and the business
would be put through with a snap
worthy of the Guards. Before the old
guard was out of sight, however, the
sentry on the right of the gate would
lean his rifle against the fence and sit
down on a large box beside the gatepost,
apparently put there for that purpose, and
pull out a newspaper. His mate would
park his rifle, saunter over and join him.
The Tommies reckoned it better entertain-
ment than the pictures.
* * * *
“N.D.”: When I hear arguments on
the value of grog for boosting the morale
of fighting men I recall the time when
H.M.A.S. Waterhen, on convoy work be-
tween Alexandria and Suda Bay, took in
tow S.S. Rawnsley, badly fished in No. 2
hold by a Jerry torpedo-bomber. The
vessel’s cargo of ammunition, small guns,
cigarettes, beer and whisky had been in-
tended for our troops making their last
stand in Crete. After beaching her, the
boys managed to sneak a few cases of
Scotch aboard, and it was not long before
the men at action stations were fighting-
mad, With the smell of cordite in their
nostrils and whisky fumes under their
scalps, Stukas were soon hurtling from
the sky, the gun-crews waving them on
and seemingly enjoying the whole attack.
♦ * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Soon after the troops
began coming back from the Middle East
we civilians began to hear the term
“drongo,” and quickly learned that in its
general sense it meant a no-hoper. Like
Digger, which came out of the 1914-18
affair, there have been arguments as to
its origin, some holding out for the bird
of that name, which, however, is certainly
not a no-hoper, since it will defend its
home and is a pugnacious hunter. My
own guess is that it goes back to 1922-23,
when Jim Scobie had a colt called
Drongo, A much-boomed animal that
excited the sporting writers of the time
and carried a lot of punters’ money,
the thing never won a race —in truth, a
no-hoper. Probably some Victorian
troops inherited the term from their em-
bittered elders.
* * * *
“Uco”; My morning paper gives quite
a lot of space to a story of a “daring
hold-up.” I am sick of the use of the
word “daring” to describe the misdeeds
of petty bandits. “Daring” is defined by
a standard dictionary as “courageous
bold; brave” and I’m darned if I can
see anything courageous, bold or brave
in three men threatening an unarmed
taximan with a gun, pinching his cab and
subsequently using the same weapon to
hold up three hotel porters. Iftthe victims
resisted, they would be daring; they
would also be foolish, as they would be
risking death. The most the thugs are
risking is imprisonment; they are well
aware that even if they kill 20 men their
necks are safe. Headlining the exploits
of criminals as daring tends to glamorise
them in the eyes of adolescents; why
don’t the papers try another line?
“Cowardly hold-up” or “despicable
robbery” would more accurately describe
most of these crimes and would put
them in their proper perspective.
“Pitt St.”: This summer-dress-for-men
topic leaves me cold. A week or so ago I
left home for town one morning under
cloudless skies and burning sunshine
wearing a three-piece sac suit, felt hat,
etc., and thinking that probably some
sort of reform was overdue. Going down
George-street 40 minutes later against
heavy, driving rain I passed a reformer.
He was wearing a sky-blue safari jacket
and blue linen pants, open-neck shirt,
linen hat with gaily-colored band and
sandals. The poor devil was wet to the
skin, was obviously cold and, to judge
by the expression on his face, was mak-
ing for an office where the rest of the
staff would have something to amuse
them for the rest of the day.
“Good luck!”
“Spokeshave”; One of the charming
features of the first day of the Melbourne
tram strike was a telephone conversa-
tion between two lovers. Unable to
meet the boy friend for a Sunday after-
noon outing because of the absence of
transport, a girl ’phoned from a public
booth at Kew to a North Essendon num-
ber and kept her ear glued to the re-
ceiver for 192 minutes. Postal officials
were powerless to interrupt the conver-
sation, as there is nothing in the regula-
lations to prevent persons monopolising
public telephones for a lifetime if they
are sufficiently asocial to want to do it.
One can’t help wondering what this
monumental earbashing would read like
if a verbatim record were printed.
* * * *
“Plop”: Advising me that we were
now in 1948, the bank-teller suggested
rather coolly that I correct the date on
my cheque. I did so and, passing it back
to him, attempted to cover my absent-
mindedness: “I suppose you get a lot
like this early in every new year. Just
another worry.” He forgave me on the
spot and almost smiled. “Yes we do,”
he said. “One old chap —actually a pro-
fessor, and a stern one —always strikes
the snag. He’s a good customer, though,
and through the years we have given him
a month’s grace before correcting him.
For him the new year does not start
usually until February, and his cheques,
dated for the early stages of the pre-
ceding year, have always been accepted.
This year for some unaccountable rea-
son he gave somebody a cheque with the
correct date on it and was annoyed,
threatening to do his business elsewhere,
when we rang him up and questioned it.
Brother, nationalisation’s only one of our
worries.”
* * * *
“Mullum”: A car pulled up outside
my front gate, the driver leaned out the
window and asked, “Excuse me, but
could you direct me to Adolf-street?”
After talking for a few minutes I realised
that what he wanted was Zadoc-street.
As he drove off I wondered how he had
come to make the mistake. Surely he
must have realised that no self-respecting
council would have kept a street with
that name after 1939.
* * * *
“Plip”: On the morning after a Syd-
ney radio station attempted a mass-
hypnotism broadcast my neighbor told
me his experience. “I decided to co-
operate,” he said, “obeyed the hypnotist,
lay peacefully with my mind a blank
and gradually fell off into a coma. Then
my wife entered the room, noticed me
asleep and switched on to another
station. That’s when my trouble started,
for an advertiser was exhorting listeners
to wake up their liver bile by taking
Such-and-such. My wife claims I went
into the kitchen and returned drinking
from a glass. She took no notice at the
time, as she was dialling another station,
this announcer declaring that now was
the time for tea. She swears that I im-
mediately leaped out and made a cup.
She also maintains that I went to see if
there was a certain disinfectant in the
family medicine-chest, threw away my
old-fashioned toothbrush an.d muttered
angrily because the time was ripe for a
well-known brand of cigarette and I had
none on hand. All told, I brewed four
pots of tea and drank about a quart of
assorted medicines before I woke up.
I’ve had hypnotism.”
* * * «
“T. McN.”: It’s news to me that men
wear buttons on their coat cuffs because
“centuries ago some cavalier discovered
that he could unsheath his blade more
quickly if he buttoned his cuffs back”
(B. 7/1/’4B), I’ve believed for years that
the fashion sprang from the military at
about the time of George 111. The brave
but primitive privates of the day didn't
use handkerchiefs but the sleeve-cuffs
of their uniforms to wipe their noses;
buttons were put on to stop the practice.
* * * *
° “Clooter”: Some of these modern in-
ventions, though possibly making for
more efficiency in business, take the joy
from life. Somebody is now marketing
a gadget for desk telephones which planks
the handpiece against one’s head —re-
ceiver to ear, transmitter to mouth —
leaving, in the words of the advt., “both
hands free to do what you wish.” I’m
agin it. When my ’phone rings, or when
I ring someone, I love to lean back in my
chair, fondle the instrument and enjoy
the experience. If it’s a nasty or
waste-of-time call I get a lovely kick
out of jamming the thing down and
cutting the caller off. Anybody who uses
a swivel office-chair knows what sooth-
ing pleasure there is in cuddling the in-
strument to the head with one hand, rest-
ing the other on the chair-arm and gently
oscillating on the swivel while listening or
talking. And what if the boss, thus made
aware of the advantages of this new
gadget, insisted on a man using two of
them at once?
* * * *
“Mullum”: It is no use complaining
about the destruction of historic build-
ings and landmarks. Progress must be
served. Witness the fact that the culvert
in which the body of the Pyjama Girl
was found has been filled in to allow the
road to be widened. If that could be
destroyed Sydney’s Macquarie landmarks
don’t stand a chance.
* * * *
“F.S.”: At Melbourne’s National
Gallery and Museum they have installed
21 photo-electric “eyes” which will count
the number of visitors to each exhibit.
The object is to determine relative popu-
larity, with a view to reorganisation. One
can’t help wondering what the authorities
will do if the detectors show that for every
10 persons who pause in front of the
Rembrandt self-portrait 100 stop at Phar
Lap’s cadaver; or if they show that the
population prefers some? mediocre sub-
ject picture to Manet’s magnificently-
painted “Melon.” Will the Rembrandt
and the Manet be relegated to the base-
ment and the lesser work put in the
place of honor? Alfred Felton, without
whose bequest the Gallery would be a
wretched collection of second-rate pic-
tures, stipulated when he left the institu-
tion with a million that only works “cal-
culated to elevate the public taste” should
be purchased. He couldn’t have fore-
seen present-day art-directors.
THE APPLE OF DISCORD.
“Public controversy has followed the judges’ award
of the Archibald Prize (value £450) almost every
year since it was instituted in 1922, and this year
is not likely to be an exception.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Too right, and it’s a pretty safe prediction
The usual argey-bargey soon will start
’Mong disputants imbued with the conviction
They’re wise to all that is, or isn’t, Art.
Birds in their little nests agree. I’m quoting
From Isaac Watts, "and I suppose it’s true.
But, here and everywhere, you can’t help noting
How seldom artists do.
This legacy of Archibald’s, the rarest
Plum that awaits an annual award,
Works like the apple labelled “For the Fairest”
That Ate tossed on th’ Olympian board.
What discord ever follows the decision,
What flow of bitterness it engineers.
What hurricanes of envy and derision
And flouts and gibes and jeers!
A genus irritabile are poets,
Horace has laid it down in deathless verse;
And from my own experience I know it’s
A just indictment —but aren’t artists worse?
Each has some “school” that holds him in
subjection,
And any work he views as nothing like
Approaching to its standard of perfection
Gives him, it seems, the spike.
Judges, it’s odds your choice will raise a riot,
The sort of thing you’re used to, one infers,
And, like as not, none will applaud your fiat
Barring the winner and his barrackers.
The job you face is not the kind of biz one
Would give advice about. But please make
sure
The portrait you acclaim the finest is one,
And not a caricature.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S
BOOK SELECTION
OF ABORIGINES. A lifetime spent among
Natives of Australia, by Daisy Bates.
With full-page photographs. 13/6 (post 6d.).
SOUTH WITH MAWSON. Reminiscences of the Australian
4?.tt r< ; t i c .,? xpedition > 19H-1914, by Charles F. Laseron.
With 17 Illustrations from photographs. 13/6 (post 6d.).
A SHORT HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA. By Ernest Scott.
8/6 (post 4d.).
FLYING. DOCTOR. By Clyde Fenton. The autobiography of
the original flying doctor. Many illustrations. 12/6 (post 4d.).
WE OF THE NEVER NEVER. By Mrs. Aeneas Gunn.
9/6 (post 4d.).
MEANJIN. A Literary Magazine, edited by C. B. Christesen.
Summer, 1947, issue. 3/6 (post 3d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
Booksellers and Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA 6511.
tired feet?
532
fUticura
yOINTM EHT
What a Trustee Should Know
A Trustee must have special qualifications if
ne is to administer an Estate to the best
advantage. He should:
—have a thorough knowledge of his duties
and be conversant with the law pertaining
to Trustees;
—possess experience in the management and
realisation of property;
—be familiar with investment conditions;
■ have security in excess of the value of your
Estate so as to guarantee it full protection;
—have permanence, so that he will be available
at all times until the completion of the
Trust*
and, above all, he must have time to devote to
his duties. By appointing the Permanent
trustee Co. as your executor and trustee, you
are assured of absolute security and safety,
combined with expert administration.
Writs for Booklet,
mm
Board of Directors:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way,
Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager:
C. N. P. Whittle
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. OF N.S.W., LTD.
ADDRESS; 23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY PT.4A.6
“Oliver Filter”: A few years ago a
couple of kookaburras earned some pro-
minence in the overseas news by refusing
to laugh for a Hollywood producer who
was anxious to record the sound. Some-
body must have softened the birds’
Garboesque attitude since then, because
their laughter is featured in practically
every film about Australia, whether made
here, in Hollywood or England. It turns
up at incongruous moments in other films,
too. A year or two back in a Bob Hope
film the comedian was depicted tiptoeing
through a steaming jungle on some
haunted tropic island. Sound-effects in-
cluded many eerie chirrups, growls and
shrieks, and then, apparently as the
supreme touch in ghastly ghostliness,
came peal upon peal of demoniacal
laughter. At least that’s how it may have
impressed Americans and others —to Aus-
tralian audiences it was the unmistakable
chortle of a kooka. Now the same thing
crops up in “Black Narcissus”—“J.
Arthur Rank presents.” In some Hima-
layan valley a wonderful array of jungle
noises is suddenly split by a cheery and
sustained burst from a kookaburra. Mr.
Rank may have mistaken, or intended,
the sound for the mating call of a hyena
or something.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Amongst the kid
sports banned by the March of Progress,
or whatever it is that fills life with pro-
hibitions, is that of bowling a hoop. In
the earlier days a hoop was regarded as a
natural adjunct to every kid’s life ; wooden
hoops beaten on their way by hoop-sticks
were scorned as “sissy” by boys who at
six demanded iron hoops, propelled and
guided by a hook. Eventually the Law
forebade hoop-bowling except in parks.
The last kid for whom I bought a hoop
never used it; he said that a boy looked a
mug carrying a thing like a hoop in order
to bowj it in a park. That kid long ago
made me a grandfather. At my latest
sight of the grandkid he was bowling an
old motor-tyre down a hilly street.
* * * *
“T.P.”: In the ’eighties the Carlton
(Vic.) Bouverie-street push bade fair to tip
our peaceful suburb from its respectable
eminence. The new sergeant “worded”
six stalwart constables. “Can’t you chaps
fix this' thing up? When I was on beat-
duty I” “Yessir,” chanted the half-
dozen, saluted and tramped off. They
came down on the push like a wolf on the
fold; and there was chaos for a time,
but thereafter peace. The clock ticked on
for 60 years. Our parish hall was
brightly lit for a friendly social. A
push stoned the electric-light bulbs, and
there followed a general mix-up. Some-
one went for the police, and a constable
arrested an oratorical, flustered partici-
pant most politely, and marched him off
to the police-station, where, to the
amazement of the newly-imported John,
the sergeant warmly shook hands with the
“criminal,” who was our vicar’s church-
warden! “We’ll close our hall to all but
purely church functions,” said the church-
man. “A pity,” replied the sergeant. “It
is popular, and fills a public want; but
We have scores of places to look after,
and my men are too often borrowed for
outside special service. They are all
warned that in arrests the struggling
hoodlum must not be injured, and so give
a clever criminal lawyer the chance to
plead ‘unwarranted brutality to my suf-
fering client.’ ” Modern humanitarian
methods may be all right, but that sort of
treatment would never have stopped the
Bouverie-street push,
“Pookie”: I have said some hard
things about Sydney police at times, but
the other night at King’s Cross I watched
a masterly piece of preventive supervi-
sion. A group headed by a fair-haired
hefty-looking fellow had been growing
bolder as the streets thinned. There is.
“ Don't be morbid, Harold —I tell you it's dead!”
at the Cross as elsewhere, a clelarly-
defined and progressive psychology of
hooliganism. Courage mounts with num-
bers, locality, time and, of course, op-
portunity. Ritual of whistling, wolf-calls,
etc., had been faithfully followed, the
fair-haired leader had sparred with a
couple of his adherents and, plainly, the
time was ripe for something particularly
outrageous. Then suddenly the group
became law-abiding citizens enjoying a
quiet yarn. The reason was a black car
—a P.D. —which had crept up and
stopped a few yards away. Nothing was
said, no caution issued, but the gay
blades became uneasy. They sauntered
down to the end of Darlinghurst-road
and around the comer to the tram-stop
as if waiting for one. The P.D. stayed
till a tram came and went, then crept up
to the corner. The gang crossed the
road, stared up and down the empty tram-
track and crossed over to Victoria-street.
So did the P.D. It was last seen gently
shepherding the would-be roisterers down
William-street.
* * * *
“Eve”: Modern methods of curing
pneumonia may have robbed writers of
their best standby for a dramatic climax,
but we’ve still got the appendix for that
“emergency-operation” touch so vital to
the middle-part of many a yarn. The
appendix is one operation the lay public
understands-, and it does nothing to in-
jure your character’s popularity. Heave
out a gall-bag and the reader would look
on your character with a less-kindly eye,
but we go on merrily cracking an ap-
pendectomy at the rate of two to every
100 yarns.
* * * *
“Jasby”; I wonder what would have
been the reaction of Dr. Johnson could
he have read that English housewives
were pleased at the announcement that
points required for oat products in the
rationing scale had been halved. In his
dictionary the doctor defined oats as “a
grain which in England is fed to horses,
but in Scotland supports the people.”
The gibe was thrown at many Scots with
considerable success until one replied
“Yes, and where would you find finer
horses or finer men?”
* * * *
“Zake”; I stood in a hardware store
beside a bulky middle-aged man who
asked to be shown some five-eighth gimp
pins, used in upholstery work. He sub-
jected the proffered samples to some
critical sniffing, which prompted the sales-
man to sarcasm. “Like to taste ’em,
too?” he asked. “That’s just what I in-
tend to do,” rumbled the big man. And
he put a handful in his mouth and went
into a contemplative reverie as do wine-
and tea-tasters. Then he spat them out.
“Crook taste,” he declared. “If I worked
with those I’d never enjoy my tucker.
Keep ’em.” And he departed in search of
more palatable pins'.
* * * *
“Uramao”: If you have tears prepare
to shed them now. Prompted by the
maternal action of the N.Z. Government
in granting women in the civil service six
months’ leave on sick pay on the birth
of a child, a male member of the civil
service urged the R.S.L. to support a
motion favoring two weeks’ leave on full
pay for civil-service fathers who have
added to their families. Bachelors must
have been in the majority, as no action
was taken.
* * * *
“Urana”: Is “Findy” (B. 24/12/’47)
going to disillusion the inhabitants
of my district by saying that he
went to school with a certain might-
be-African pigmy woman? Too bad if
he speaks truly, for it has always been
our fond belief that she was a dwarf
half-caste girl from an aboriginal mission
up this way, her annual absence from
the community round about Show-time
helping to confirm our convictions. It
would hurt us all deeply if we were to
lose our only claim to fame, so we hope
that “Findy” is mistaken and that his
ex-school pal, instead of brightening the
lives of carnival crowds, has meantime
married a colored Allied serviceman and
is settled happily in Alabama with a brace
of copper-colored piccaninnies,
% % 5k *
“Craiser”: It may seem strange, but
there are apparently local dialects ip the
sign language of deaf and dumb people
as in the spoken tongue. I sat among a
crowd in a Victorian railway carriage.
Some were deaf mutes and others weren’t,
but they could all understand each other’s
symbols, and the silent conversation was
lively, vivacious and incredibly swift.
One young man, however, seemed to be
having more difficulty than the others,
and I asked if he was a beginner. “Oh,
no,” I was told, “he knows the language
all right, but he comes from Queens-
land, where they use a somewhat different
set of symbols.” Steps are being taken
to bring the system used in Queensland
and N.S.W. into accord with that of
S.A., Victoria and the West,
* * * *
“MB”: It’s come at last. On the
corner of Sydney’s Pitt- and King-
streets the other morning a half-bred blue
cattle-dog with a stumpy tail, his front
legs crossed at ease, leaned casually
against a shop-front and watched the
crowd going past, I expected him to
spit straight and true into the gutter, but
perhaps he hasn’t got that far yet.
* * * *
“Maxie’s Boy”: My paper told me just
before 1947 faded that Australian pro-
duction of beer and stout for the year
ended last June was the record quantity
of 128,267,000 gallons. Assuming that
4,000,000 of our 7,600,000-odd are old
enough to drink the stuff, that works out
at somewhere about 32 gallons a head, or
more than half a gallon a week. Now
then, all you blokes who battled for a
drink through 1946-47, who do you
reckon got it?
* * * *
“ ’Arry Garto” (from Japan): When
the first Lancastrian settled on Bofu’s
broad strip to open the Qantas service
to Japan the effect on the Japanese
journalists was rather startling. “Gooks”
with vivid armbands of blue and
white announced they were members
of the press, jammed their 20 bodies
into a wreck of a weapons-carrier, then,
under the watchful eyes of the 1.0., jolted
to the estimated place of the Lanc.’s
landing. Types from the “Nippon
Times” to the lowly local rags were
there. Mustangs kept them interested
until the Lane, kangaroo’d in. Then
Leica and Zeiss clicked ; “gooks” jab-
bered and jotted notes. Lines of com-
munication being what they are in Japan,
the Nips clipped the photos and notes
to a flock of homing pigeons, then set
those speedsters loose with the news hot
from the pen to the printing-press. Yes,
pigeons! The food shortage here must
be easing.
* * * *
“Tons”: Australian-born of Irish stock,
Mike came back to the unit after a
visit in mufti to his ancestral earth.
Normally talkative, Mike was oddly
silent for days, had a faraway look in
his eyes and in reply to questions said
“Sure, they’re a queer people.” Finally
he admitted to spending a few days in
Dublin, where he fell in with an officer
of the Eire Army, “a fine drinker,” and
the two of them were riding in a hansom
from pub to pub when Mike became
aware of several external concussions.
“What’s that?” he demanded quick and
lively, with all sorts of thoughts about
Sinn Feiners and Black-and-Tans. “Sure,”
said the Irish officer, “it’s only a rock.”
Then more rocks, a whole barrage of
them. “What the ..“Sure,” said the
Irish officer, “it’s 0n1y...” “I know,”
said Mike, “but why ?” “Sure,” said the
Irish officer, easily and philosophically as
before. “They don’t like the uniform.”
Mike glanced down at the well-qpressed
civvies. “But—you see,” waving his hand
to his un-uniformed legs. “Only uniform
—yours —theirs — why ?” “Sure,” said
the Irish officer. “They don’t like any
uniform.”
CORRESPONDENCE COLUMNS.
A curious feature of our modern press,
An evidence of open-mindedness,
Maybe you’ll hold it.
It keeps a corner open nowadays
Almost impartially for those who praise
And those who scold it.
When Pott and Slurk howled for each other’s
gore
At storied Eatanswill wherein of yore
They cut their capers,
It’s safe to bet they wouldn’t have authorised
Having their own shortcomings publicised
In their own papers.
They weren’t the sort to tolerate a hint
That any mortal thing they chose to print
Was not a solemn
Undoubted truth, not to be faulted or
Queried and argued over in a corr-
espondence column.
Now, ’neath the caption “What Our Readers
Think”
Set forth engagingly in printer’s ink
You find a funny
Section where benedictions alternate
With curses, songs of praise with hymns of
hate
And gall with honey.
One commentator tenders a bouquet-,
Another sends a brickbat on its way;
Harsh words and soppy
Jostle each other in this quaint pow-wow.
And who’s to say it matters anyhow?
They all make “copy”!
n.s.w.
IFORD.


(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
S&k
ESTABLISHED 1885.
Ghe
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
offers a comprehensive service
covering every phase of Estate Management, Executorship and Trustee-
ship, and providing for the efficient control and administration of all
related matters, or your personal affairs.
The expert knowledge gained through sixty years of Union Trustee
experience in these matters simplifies the handling of all details.
This efficient service is available at moderate cost.
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS: J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman) ; E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman) ;
Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8., C.B.E. ; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Adviser: Samuel Cooke. General Manager; John Larritt. Manager; C. A. Bradfleld.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WADES BOARD: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; A. E.
Heath, C.M.G.; Robert O. Wilson ; Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. ■ Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD: Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V.D, (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart;
R, J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.0. E.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager; H. W. Herbert. Assistant Manager; C. D. Wrigley.
Townsville: 14-16 Denham St.—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager). Toowoomba: Margaret
st.—J. O. Vidgen (Branch Manager). Rockhampton: Fitzroy St.—A. F. Tannock,
(Branch Manager). Pastoral Inspectors; C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland .
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends Off. Reserves.
1937.. 420,404 15 p.c. = 232,500 76,472 1,664,562
1938.. 224,149 12*,, ~ 193,750 73,556 1,621,405
1939.. 252,393 7$ „ 116,250 91,186 1,666,362
1940.. 275,860 s| „ ~135,625 92,935 1,713,662
1941.. 265,316 Bif „ „ 135,625 95,975 1,747,378
1942.. 226,811 8} „ ~135,625 71,132 1,767,432
1943.. 234,183 8f „ „ 135,625 64,750 1,801,240
1944.. 161,927 8J „ ~ 135,625 52,672 1,774,870
1945.. 39,095 5 „ „ 77,500 34,902 1,701,563
Removal overburden, £7113 .. .. 1,694,450
1946.. 87,222 Nil 32,987 1,748,685
Removal overburden, £9068 .. .. 1,739,617
1947.. 156,791 5 p.c. = 77,500 38,972 1,779,936
It was the lift in the price of the red
metal, together with a bit more from in-
vestments, that put the spring into last
year’s earnings. Australian official buy-
ing price of electrolytic copper was £lOO
a ton in Sept., 1945 ; it dropped to £95
in Feb., 1946—Lyell continued to receive
£lOO under Treasury guarantee —was
lifted to £l3O in April, 1947, and has
remained steady since. There was little
change in the output of copper (8208 tons,
up 65 tons), all of which is sold locally.
The growth in gross returns from min-
ing was £159,706, and an extra £9077 was
received in divs.:
Income— 1945. 1946. 1947.
Copper, etc. .. £886,877 £879,664 £1,039,370
Dividends . . 44,321 77,824 86,901
Total ~ £931,198 £957,488 £1,126,271
Exes. —
Mining . . 460,918 474,207 513,314
Refining, smelting 376,428 378,771 377,251
Development, de-
preciation . . 34,902 32,988 38,972
Admin., etc. . . 54,778 58,369 78,997
Total .. £927,026 £944,335 £1,008,534
Net profit . . 4,172 13,153 117,737
The growth of £39,107 in mining exes,
was du© mainly to lifts in the basic wage
averaging 9s. a week, while allowance for
taxation (£23,000, nil in previous term)
more than accounted for the growth of
£20,628 in administrative exes., etc. De-
velopment and depreciation (up £5984)
are included with profit in the intro-
ductory table and then shown as written
off. The profit claimed (£117,737, up
£104,584) was 7.6 p.c. on the £1,550,000
of paid capital as against 0.8 p.c. and
0.2 p.c. for the two preceding years. Dis-
regarding the cost of income from invest-
ments, mining showed a profit of £30,827
last year as against losses of £64,671 and
£40,149 for the two preceding terms.
Shareholders, who were passed by in
1946, received 5 p.c., which called for
£9401 less than the return from invest-
ments.
Once a high- and then medium-grade
producer, tfye co. is now faced with a
large tonnage of low-grade ore that can
only be handled profitably on the hell-
for-leather principle. This called for
further mechanisation of the open-cut,
and for additions to coarse-crushing and
fine-grinding sections of the mill to enable
it to handle extra feed. Last term five
new 20-ton trucks and three more bull-
dozers were put to work, and 1,912,118
tons (up 137,650 tons) material was
handled, of which 446,762 tons (up
144,711 tons) was barren. Over 93 p.c.
of the ore came from the West Lyell
open-cut, and the balance from the Royal
Tharsis.
Treatment and production figures com-
pare as follows:
Ore treated 1944. 1945. 1946. 1947.
(tons) ..1,490,654 1,480,554 1,472,290 1,462,401
Assay, copper,
p.c. . . 0.816 0.060 0.67 0.686
Blister pro-
duced (tons) 10,097 7,750 8,203 8,273
Contents—
Copper .
(tons) . . 10,033 7,697 8,143 8,208
Silver (oz.) 41,635 26,092 29,630 30,313
Gold (oz.) 6,597 5,091 5,486 5,712
Mill tailings yielded 51,524 tons (down
3103 tons) pyritic concentrates assaying
49.4 p.c. sulphur. The smelter was closed
during the last month of the term for
repairs to the main flue.
Since close of accounts a 84in. x 64in.
primary jaw crusher, a 10ft. x 7ft. ball
mill and a 21ft, classifier have, been re-
ceived, and their installation is proceed-
ing as fast as labor and materials will
permit. When the three new units are in
operation the mill will be able to handle
more. To what extent this will
offset rising costs, including the 40-
hour week, it is impossible to say at the
moment. Until more labor is available
for breaking material in the open-cut
and for repair of mechanical equipment,
the quantity and quality of production
will continue to be affected, because of
the large amount of very low-grade
material, normally classified as waste,
that will have to be sent to the mill to
maintain output. However, prospects of
a better return from mining at next bal-
ance are encouraging.
At end September last ore reserves
stood at 33,891,000 tons (down
1,201,000 tons), averaging 0.77 p.c.
copper, 0.050 z. silver and 0.00840 z. gold.
More recently some good-grade ore was
disclosed by the drill on the 600 ft. level
of the North Lyell, but it is too early
yet to talk about tonnage and average
value.
The year’s improvement in the liquid
position was £58,634:
1945. 1946. 1947.
Metals .. .. £404,714 £362,015 £398,720
Book debts . . 100,022 149,308 131,749
Stocks, etc. . . 387,132 359,894 383,784
Shares other cos. 1,822,997 1,822,997 1,821,797
Total .. £2,714,865 £2,694,214 £2,736,050
Liabilities .. 679,369 667,202 650,404
Liquid surplus .. £2,035,496 £2,027,012 £2,085,646
Capital outlay on new development is
being financed by bank overdraft
(£525,731), down £83,080 last term. Share-
holdings consist mainly of scrip in four
fertiliser cos. and in Metal Manufac-
tures, together with holdings in
E.M.A.I.L. and 1.C.1.A.N.Z. In addition
the mine figures at £536,732, plant
£398,115, hydro - electric equipment
£181,638, railways £212,226, freehold,
etc., £9260.
The market notes the size of the over-
draft, the trend of costs and the un-
certain long-term outlook for the price
of copper, and prices the pound shares at
355. 6d. as against 21s. 3d. a year ago.
The return at 355. 6d. is 2.8 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis, or approx. 4 p.c. on a
7 p.c. distribution, which would call for
£9237 less profit than was claimed last
term. Allowing for the final div. and
leaving the mine out of the reckoning,
net tangible cover is 365. 6d. (book value).
Goliath Portland Cement Co. (Tas.)
, ; —Dividends——',
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1937.. 69.063.10,016 15 p.c. = 25,586 33,461 89,700
Reserves capitalised, £85,263- .. .. 4,437
Reserves disappear, £24 ~ .. .. 4,413
1938.. 51,794 10,016 11.8 p.c.=30,381 11,397 15,810
1939.. 66,601 10,016 15 ~, ~ 38,375 18,210 34.020
1940.. 55,663 10,016 14.3 „ ~36,776 8,871 42,891
1941. . 34,220 10,016 13.1 „ ~33,579 33,516
1942.. 24,250 10,016 6.3 „ ~15,990 31,700
1943.. 12,794 10,016 2.5 „ „ 6,396 28,142
1944.. 12,596 10,016 2.5 „ „ 6,396 24,326
1945.. 20,703 10,016 3.75 „ 9,594 1,093 25,419
1946.. 26,126 10,016 6.06 ~14,391 1,719 27,138
1947.. 44,361 10,016 11.1 ~ ~ 28,781 5,564 32,702
The co.’s 100,000-ton-per-annum plant is
at Railton (Tas.), alongside good shale,
clay and limestone deposits, with com-
paratively cheap hydro-electric power
available. It enjoys a virtual monopoly
of the cement trade in its home State,
and before the war had won markets in
Vic. and further afield in the more com-
petitive trade in N. S. Wales and else-
where. For the five years to the close
of accounts in 1941 divs. averaged 13.8
p.c., with £71,979 to spare, after making
liberal allowances for depreciation ; and
the £85,263 lopped off ord. capital in
1934 was restored in 1938 by a
two bonus issue. For the next five years,
to the close of accounts in 1946, divs.
averaged only 4 p.c., and reserves were
drawn upon for £6386 net for the pur-
pose. That was because war and shipping
difficulties cut off trade with the main-
land, and local demand was reduced to a
trickle. At the same time manufacturing
costs were bumped up by the reduced
demand, wage lifts and rise, in the price
of materials.
However, earnings are getting into their
stride again, thanks to steadily expanding
local (Tas.) demand for cement for in-
dustrial and private construction —short-
age of shipping is still hindering revival
of trade with the mainland. Last term
output was maintained at as close to
plant capacity as labor and other condi-
tions permitted. Gross earnings (£111,436)
shot up £45,419, or 69 p.c. Including
something for taxation and £25,000 (up
£12,500) for depreciation, exes. (£67,639)
took £27,226 of the gain. Taking an un-
explained addition of £564 to reserves
into the reckoning, the net result was
£44,361 (up £18,235), or enough to give
the prefs. their 7 p.c. and show 13.4 p.c.
on the £255,834 of ord. capital, compared
with 6.3 p.c. in the previous term and
22.1 p.c. in 1939. The div. was lifted
from a wink over 5 p.c. to 11.1 p.c., and,
subject to developments in connection
with costs, there are reasonable pros-
pects of the higher rate being maintained.
The outlook on the demand side is one
of growing pressure. The big programme
of construction ahead of Electrolytic Zinc
and other large industrial undertakings in
Tas. ought to mean much so far as cement
is concerned, and so should a deferred
programme of public works, including
road-construction, etc. How far such
an expansion will ultimately benefit
Goliath’s net earnings depends largely
upon movements in prices, which are,
officially controlled, and costs, which are
steadily on the up-grade, owing to
repeated wage lifts, rising prices and re-
duction of working hours. Meanwhile
the new asbestos-cement factory, which
has gone up alongside the cement works
at Railton and which came into produc-
tion at the beginning of October last,
should contribute to the pool.
Last term only £3014 more than was
written off was spent on fixed assets, and
cash, etc., was strengthened by £32,972:
1937. 1941. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £313,663 £398,926 £398,926 £398,926
Sundry creditors 9,346 9,526 14,453 16,405
Tax provision 15,000 25,000 20,000 31,000
Staff funds . . 2,000 4,949
Freehold, leases,
plant, etc... 256,915 177,093 184,825 187,839
Stocks .. 23,010 82,444 94,974 90,782
Book debts .. 79,755 57,899 68,173 62,640
Cash, etc. . . 83,830 161,830 116,944 149,916
Shares in other
cos.. .; 2,000 17,000 17,000 17,000
Including shareholdings, the more or less
liquid surplus (£267,984) was £7346
stronger than at the previous balance.
The market prices the f.-p. 13s. 4d.
ords. at 345. 10d., at which figure the
return is 4.2 p.c. 'on the basis of last
year’s distribution. The £1 prefs., at
31s. 6d., yield 4.4 p.c. Net tangible
cover (book value) is 60s. 4d. prefs. and
15s. ords.
The Price of Gold
Despite official denials, rumors of an
impending increase in the world price
of gold became increasingly persistent in
1947, and they still continue. Under
existing conditions the only thing easily
to be agreed about the whole question
is that it is complex. Two approaches
to the problem are: (1) its international
and domestic implications from a trade
and currency point of view and (2) its
relation to production of the metal.
So far as production of the yellow
metal is concerned, there are strong and
sound arguments in favor of a better
gross return than the present official price
provides. While the official price of gold
remains anchored throughout the world,
prices of other metals and of commodities
generally have advanced with rising costs
and for other reasons. Thus the price
of gold has been allowed to fall out of
equilibrium because of the anchor placed
upon it by the Bretton Woods machinery
at the end of the war.
While the price remains at Its present
level, any further rise in wage and other
cost items —they are the goldmining in-
dustry’s No. 1 problem, and seem likely
to continue on the up-grade for some-
time yet—means that a growing propor-
tion of the world’s marginal gold pro-
ducers will become unprofitable and go
out of business, with a consequent fall in
total output. And this at a time when
the new-born hopes of multilateralism in
trade —if they are realised —will tend to
increase demand for gold.
For the most part demand now comes
from Governments, which acquire newly-
mined gold under legislative compulsion
and use it as a store of value for purposes
of international trade, where it is uni-
versally accepted in exchange for any
currency, including the scarce dollar.
The advantages of maintaining, or where
possible of increasing, the production of
gold are therefore obvious. Any diminu-
tion in total output, especially outside the
dollar area, will sooner or later tend to
slow down the tempo of international
trade by a comparative reduction of pur-
chases from the dollar area, which is the
only area from which much of the rest of
the world’s requirements can be had at
the moment. If Australia’s gold produc-
tion were large enough, there would be
no need for drastic cuts in imports of
newsprint, petrol, motor-cars, tobacco,
films and other goods from the dollar
area, with resulting structural shifts in
employment.
It is in the international sphere that
the biggest obstacles to a lift in the official
price of gold appear. Here the main
objection is that an immediate rise in the
world price would aggravate world infla-
tionary influences, and therefore create
more problems than it set out to solve. It
has been suggested in authoritative
quarters that a lift in the world price would
be only seriously considered in responsible
international circles as an anti-deflationary
measure, and as an instrument towards
countering a sharp decline in world pur-
chasing power, if and when undue de-
flationary pressure again asserts itself.
Exactly when this will occur is anybody’s
guess at the moment. Among other
things, the answer is wrapped up with
American stop-gap aid, the Marshall Plan,
and what happens in connection with the
recovery of Europe. /
In June last the International Monetary
Fund asked its members to discourage
external purchases and sales of gold at
prices which directly or indirectly produce
exchange transactions at depreciated
rates ; that is to say, from buying or sell-
ing gold at prices above the monetary
parities established by the fund. Gold
has long been selling at a premium in
India, China and the Middle East. These
markets have been fed mainly from
Latin-Amedcan countries and from
Switzerland. To a small extent American
smelting and refining cos. had also par-
ticipated in the gold trade at premium
prices. This had been permitted under
U.S. Treasury licence to enable the
American cos. concerned to compete with
foreign smelting and refining cos. Such
international traffic in private gold at
high prices gives countries permitting it
a certain amount of foreign exchange at
bargain prices, which is unfair to other
members of the fund.
The fund has accepted the exchange
parities declared by 33 member States.
Some of these parities, however, are
already considered to be out of equili-
brium; that is to say, they are under-
valued or overvalued in relation to the
dollar, whose statutory par value is 35
dollars to the ounce of gold. It is
thought by some that individual currency
adjustments, necessitated or precipitated
by developments in the international ex-
change situation, such as early exhaustion
of Britain’s remaining hard currency re-
serves, might soon force an all-round lift
in the price of gold. It is further argued
that, following such a lift and change in
parities, the value of official gold stocks
everywhere would be raised, and so help
spin out the remaining currency reserves
of the dollar problem countries.
In 1931 devaluation was economic
salvation for Britain, because it


.M'
...
m
mm
■ymm
L ■' J 0 ;
m is® s ~.x
yk, ■ *
Planning your
CHILDS FUTURE
For a quarterly outlay, so small that you -will not
notice it, you can ensure that your son (or daughter)
■will have the money to go to the University. Or you
can arrange that he will receive a given sum —say £2OO,
£5OO, or what-not —when he is 21 or 25, or at any age
you nominate.
You could do no finer thing for your hoy (or girl)
than ensure to him the best possible education.
A few shillings a week will do it. Ask that we send
a representative to talk it over with you.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Principal Board:
CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman.
Sir FREDERICK H. TOUT, Deputy-Chairman.
J. HUBERT FAIRFAX, W. A. MACKAY, Dr. S. A. SMITH,
SEPTIMUS G. ROWE, Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Technical Education by Correspondence
The Technical Education Branch of the Department of Education
' offers through the
SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE
the means of ensuring your future by providing you with sound and
modern training in a wide range of subjects by correspondence instruction.
PROMOTION AND SUCCESS
depend upon your ability to keep in touch with up-to-date methods and modern
trends. No part of the State is too remote to prevent you from receiving instruction.
Young persons, other than school pupils, and adults who live too far away from any
New South Wales Technical College to attend classes, are recommended to apply for
enrolment in any one or more of the following Correspondence Courses: —
ART. —Dressmakers’ Art,' Figure
Drawing, Freehand Drawing, Letter-
ing, Short Display Card Writing,
Object (Still Life) Drawing, Ticket
Writing.
COMMERCIAL.—B ookkeeping,
Business Principles, Accountancy,
Auditing, Commercial Law, Cost
Accountancy, Company Secretarial
Practice, Income Tax Law, Banking,
Finance and Foreign Exchange,
Bankers’ Institute, Commercial Cor-
respondence, Shorthand, Typewrit-
ing.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT.—LocaI Gov-
ernment (Town and Shire) Clerks’
Certificate.
ELECTRICAL.—EIectricaI Trades
(for apprentices and journeymen!.
ENGINEERING.—Pitting and Mach-
ining, Automotive Mechanics, Diesel
Engine Operation, Motor Mainten-
ance (for owners and drivers of
motor vehicles), Steam Engine
Driving, Boiler Attendants, Gas En-
gineering, Refrigeration.
HOME HANDlCRAFTS.—Dressmak-
ing, Millinery.
PREPARATORY.—E ngl i s h and
Mathematics (approximately from
Ist year to Leaving Certificate stan-
dard), French and Mechanics (ap-
proximately from Intermediate Cer-
tificate to Leaving Certificate stan-
dard).
If you cannot attend a Technical
BUlLDlNG. —Building Construction,
Carpentry and Joinery (Theory, Cal-
culations and Drawing).
PRlNTlNG.—Composing, Printers’
English and Arithmetic, Linotype
Operation.
PUBLIC EXAMlNATlONS. —lnter-
mediate Certificate (see Secondary),
Nurses’ Entrance, Police Entrance,
Telephonists’ and Telegraph Mes-
sengers’ Entrance, Diploma and
Special Entrance (Sydney Techni-
cal College).
PUBLIC HEALTH.— HeaIth Inspec-
tion, Meat Inspection.
RURAL. —A griculture, Care of
Animals, Pig Raising, Poultry
Farming, Sheep and Woolclassing,
Dairy Technology, Beekeeping, Farm
Mechanics (including Farm Mach-
inery, Farm Science and Farm Arith-
metic), Station Bookkeeping.
SANITATION. —House Drainage,
Sanitary Engineering, Sewer Plumb-
ing, Water Plumbing.
SECONDARY. —Art, Business Prin-
ciples and Bookkeeping, English,
French, General Mathematics, Geog-
raphy, History, Latin, Mathematics
I (Arithmetic and Algebra), Mathe-
matics II (Geometry and Trigo-
nometry), Technical Drawing. (All
from Ist year to Intermediate Cer-
tificate standard.)
College, study by Correspondence.
XJCiJCiO.
Basic Scale So/- per single subject. Course rates where applicable. Complete
schedule of fees available upon application. Half fees to students under 21 years
and receiving less than 30/- weekly.
A. DENNING, Superintendent of Technical Colleges.
MAIIL coupon FOB SYLLABUS
To the Officer in Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division, Sydney Technical
College, 45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the
Correspondence Course.
NAME (in Block Letters)
ADDRESS
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.l-
Australian and overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Protect Your Property Insure With
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY
OF CANTON, LTD.
A British Office. Established 1835.
FUNDS EXCEED £8,000,000.
N.S.W. Branch:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Thone: BW 8131 (3 lines).
C. R. CORNWALL, Manager.
v:
The "MARS"
PLAIN MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum
Output and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY,
k BRISBANE.
V Licensed Manufacturers in
y Qld. of Meehanite Metals.
Distributing Agents: N.S.W. —Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VIC. —Servian
Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne. S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King
William, St., Adelaide. W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z.—Motor Specialties, Ltd., Auckland. CALCUTTA
—Ross Neil & Sons, Ohowringhee Rd. BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co.,
Ltd., Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
‘My, what a big girl—
coming all the way to New York alone!’
To the fond relative it’s something for wonder that a child
should be able to fly thousands of miles in a 8.0.A.C.
Speedbird—alone. To the child, flying is merely a very
comfortable way of travelling fast.
Every year 8.0.A.C. carries 150,000 passengers on 72,000
miles of routes. These passengers are flown by 8.0.A.C.
pilots, of whom 100 have over a million miles’ flying experience
each. Men who have learned how in the 28 years of B.O.A.C’s
flying experience. With its associated air lines, 8.0.A.C.
links together Britain, Australia and New Zealand, Middle
East, India, the Far East, the African Continent, Canada
and the U.S.A.
Australian Representative: Shell House. Carrington Street, Sydney
General Agents: Qantas Empire Airways. Sydney. Melbourne. Brisbane,
Townsville, Cairns, Port Moresby, Lae, Rabaul, Darwin
Booking Agents in all cities.
IT’S A SMALL WORLD BY SPEEDBIRD
BOA C
Q.E.A. flperate the Flying-boat service
between Australia and Singapore, and
the Lancastrian service between Australia
and Karachi. T.E.A.L. operate the
service from Australia to New Zealand.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION IN ASSOC.. WITH QANTAS EMPIRE
AIRWAYS, SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS 'LIMITED
14/AU
stopped the flight from the
pound and helped to correct the
then adverse balance of pay-
ments. Today there can be no
flight from the pound, since ex-
change control is practically
watertight. So far as the trade
balance is concerned, Britain’s
main difficulty at the moment is
lack of output, not lack of
markets or the prices demanded
for exports. If the rise in com-
modity prices under the leader-
ship of U.S. markets continues,
it is not altogether impossible
that temporary relief might, have
to be sought by an upward re-
valuation of sterling. Indeed, if
inflation in the U.S. continues
to outstrip inflation in Britain,
as it is doing at the present time,
then the dollar, not sterling,
might soon be overvalued in pre-
sent terms of gold,
The broad conclusion is,
therefore, that an increase in the
world price of gold is not, at
present, favored by the two
principal gold-purchasing coun-
tries, namely, U.S. and Britain,
Also the rules of the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund lay down
that no uniform parities change
can operate without the ap-
proval of member States hold-
ing more than 10 p.c. of the
total quotas, and the U.S. and
Britain are the only two mem-
ber States holding the requisite
percentage. Although Britain
absorbs the bulk of the output
of South African and Australian
mines in the first instance, the
same gold is sooner or later re-
sold to U.S. to cover the hard-
currency deficit of the sterling
area.
If now-marginal gold pro-
ducers are not to be forced out
of production by rising costs,
the solution appears to lie in
some form of domestic subsidy.
At a later stage, when inflation
in the U.S., Britain and the rest
of the Empire has run its course,
and present sellers’ markets give
way to buyers’ markets, a rise
in the world price of the yellow
metal might be expected. Do-
mestic gold-production subsidies
could then be withdrawn.
The objection to subsidies
generally is that, like competi-
tive devaluation, they are a
means whereby one country may
obtain an advantage in inter-
national trade at the expense of
others, and so lead to reprisals
that would finally intensify in-
flationary pressure. For this rea-
son, and others, the 1.T.0. in its
charter envisages that its mem-
bers —Australia is one —will
gradually reduce their existing
subsidies. It is open to argu-
ment whether a temporary do-
mestic subsidy on gold produc-
tion would be inconsistent with
the objectives of the charter.
Queensland Minister of Mines
Foley has announced a record
mineral output for the State last
year, worth about £8,250,000, or
nearly double the 1946 figure.
Mt. Isa weighed in with
£4,500,000-worth of silver, lead
and zinc. Gold was worth
£775,000, and coal £2,000,000,
the balance being made up of
various minerals from all sorts
of shows. “The eyes of the in-
vesting public have been directed
towards our mineral resources,”
says the Minister, who expects
a bigger mining cheque for the
State this year.
* * * *
From London: At the annual
meeting of Lake View and Star
cheers followed the election of
general manager Joe Thorn to
the board in place of A. H. Col-
lier, retired. One shareholder
said he would like the board to
convey to Thorn the apprecia-
tion with which they (share-
holders) had received his elec-
tion. Thorn is the second Wes-
tralian mining engineer to join
the board in the last 12 months,
the other being Dolph Agnew,
son of a former chairman, the
late J. A. Agnew, The present
chairman, Goldthorp Hay,
pointed out that the increased
cost of gold production could
not be passed on as in the case
of other metals and commodi-
ties. That was the price paid by
gold-producers for the pre-
eminence of their product as a
medium of exchange; in other
directions the goldmining in-
dustry enjoyed advantages de-
nied to others,
* * * *
A new Westralian iron-ore de-
posit at Koolyanobbing, near
Southern Cross, on the Yilgarn
field, is estimated to contain
37,250,000 tons of 58.5-63.4
p.c. ore, and at near-by Dowd’s
Hill there are some 32,000,000
tons of 62.7 p.c. ore, all above
water level. Drilling to intersect
the ore-bodies at 400 ft. below
water level is recommended by
the Geological Survey Depart-
ment.
* * * *
Following retirement of
general manager F. G. Brinsden
and assistant manager A. E.
Baton, A. A. McLeod, acting
manager of Big Bell, has been
appointed general manager of
North Kalgurli (W.A.); and K.
Brinsden becomes superinten-
dent of North and South Kal-
gurli’s joint treatment plant. At
South Kalgurli R. Ince has been
appointed financial manager and
attorney and H. B. Newman
mine manager.


‘Phenovis" worm remedy.
That's a sharp sheep! He not only talks, but
knows what's good for him AND for your profits—
"Phenovis" the effective gastro-intestinal worm
remedy. Based on Phenothiazine, best and most
effective known drench for nodule, large stomach
and black scour in sheep, "Phenovis" also
controls a host of gastro-intestinal parasites
in other stock. "Phenovis" is non-toxic to
sheep when used as directed and is supplied
ready to use in handy powder form. Simply mix
with water and drench as directed.
Available in
I LB. TINS, 7/5
7 LB. BAGS, 7/- PER LB.
Freight and postage extra.
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS; The Graziers’ Co-operative Shearing
Co. Ltd., Wilcox Mofflin Ltd.
IPI9-I2
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
OSUIXIVAN
rA> mm.*,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
/ Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“.TACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The many duties of an
Executor of a Will
The care of an Estate demands not only integrity
and specialised knowledge but organised facilities
to ensure daily attention to all matters affecting its
interests. Such organised attention by specially-
trained staff, working under the constant super-
vision of the Management, and a Board of
Directors of wide experience is provided by Per-
petual Trustee Company (Limited).
Write for a copy of the booklet “Your Executor
and Trustee,” which describes the services rendered
by the Company—and its charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.;
D. R. LYSAGHT; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney
for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Biverina Representative: D. A. Cormack, 49
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Northern District Representative: F. T. Bowen-Thomas,
Queensland Insurance Building, Fitzroy Street, Tamworth.
Western District Representative: J. L. McElroy,
140 Fords Place, Orange.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Housing Lag
The New Year has started
with housing still inadequate in
all States, in spite of the flam-
boyant promises made by
Federal and State “Labor” Gov-
ernments even before the war
ended nearly two and a half
years ago. But State Govern-
ments, especially in N. S. Wales,
still interfere excessively in
homebuilding, holding a No. 1
priority over materials and fit-
tings and (McGirr’s State again)
putting up homes only at the
most prodigal expense. The
States now control the issue of
building permits, one of the last
authoritative statements heard
from the Federal sphere being
that of Minister Dedman, who
said it was not the policy of his
Government to make little capi-
talists out of “the workers” by
encouraging them to own their
own homes.
N. S. Wales and Victoria
probably have the worst hous-
ing shortage. But Mr, McGirr,
who introduced the 40-hour
week to his State the best part
of a year before it became Com-
monwealth-wide (he had a State
election to consider) sees “roses,
roses all the way” ; judged on
his public utterances it is doubt-
ful whether N. S. Wales has ever
had such a colossal fathead as
Premier, though it must be con-
ceded that public administration
and the real business of govern-
ment seem to be becoming less
and less important in the eyes
of all “Labor” Premiers. They
have other jobs to attend to,
the party-political side in itself
engaging great attention.
In N. S, Wales housing costs
are reckoned to have approxi-
mately doubled since war be-
gan, and in most other States the
position is similar. Shortages
of essential materials are still
obvious: it is the common thing
for construction of a house to
be delayed because timber,
bricks, tiles, piping or window-*
glass are unobtainable. Cement
is also hard to get, though hous-
ing projects are supplied more
quickly than most others.
Homes are taking much
longer to build than in 1939.
Unfinished structures may stay
unfinished for long periods.
Stoves and baths are scarce,
Homebuilding activity at pre-
sent is unquestionably very
wide from the point of view of
houses under construction. Per-
haps, even making allowance
for slow bricklaying and the 40-
hour week, a great deal of work
is being done—especially at
week-ends, when overtime is
payable. But there is a big lag
to make up.
From an average of 1486
houses monthly in 1940-41 the
permits officially granted for
the erection of dwellings in six
capitals and their suburbs fell
to 38 a month in 1942-43. For
four of the war years, indeed,
homebuilding did not equal one
normal pre-war year. It is prob-
able that at the present moment
there is a three- to four-year
housing lag. Even if all the
permits issued each month bring
the same number of new houses
eventually it will take another
three years at least to overcome
the shortage.
In the last three pre-war years
the average number of building
permits issued wSs 1300 a
month. During the last half of
1947 the average rate was ap-
proximately double that, sug-
gesting, if the jobs can be
carried out, that each year from
now on we will be dragging
back one war-year’s arrears.
That doesn’t allow anything
for growth in the number of
families and the increase in
population, or for hastened de-
preciation of existing housing
caused by lack of paint, etc.
And it presupposes that dwel-
lings started on can be finished
within a reasonable time.
We may be excused if we pin
our hopes on a bigger output
of bricks and tiles as time goes
by, even if the 40-hour week
raises their cost. We have the
plant capacity to turn out many
more bricks than is the case at
present. Tile output is already
much greater than before the
war, but the demand is higher
because of the shortage of gal-
vanised iron. Cement produc-
tion is a record, but another in-
crease of 25 p.c. is probably
needed to meet all demands, in-
cluding those for major con-
structional jobs. Very little city
building is -going on at present.
Paint is scarce, largely because
of inadequate supplies of lin-
seed from India.
If we go by what has been the
experience under the “Labor”
regime ever since “Labor” took
office we may feel that this hous-
ing lag will never be overcome.
But if the remedy is a matter of
doubling the annual pre-war
output of houses over the next
three years the job should not
be hopeless if we really try and
give the task the national pre-
cedence it deserves. It is un-
likely, either, that the overtaking
of the lag would be followed by
a collapse of building activity.
There are years of city building
still to be carried out, and nor-
mal annual homebuilding will
be greater than before the war,
while repairs, alterations and
maintenance will also be on a
far greater scale. We can have
no satisfactory standard of liv-
ing until the population is de-
cently housed.
Tivoli and Minerva
The Martin - controlled
Minerva and Tivoli theatres (B.
17/. 12/’47) were in the news
“ Where's the purser, Skip? We'd like to deposit our
valuables in the strongroom .”
again last week; Actors’ Equity
pigheadedly objects to the Old
Vic Company and the Ballet
Rambert playing on the Sydney
Tivoli stage, grounds being that
they will not use the proportion
of Australian artists demanded,
and that they will put out of
work the vaudeville casts usually
playing at the Tivoli. Miss
Kathleen Robinson, of White-
hall Productions, at present in
charge of the Minerva (legiti-
mate) stage, wants the Old Vic
Company to play at the Minerva
(King’s Cross); and Actors’
Equity seems to back her up,
contending that fewer Aus-
tralians will be displaced at the
Minerva.
But the Tivoli is! d bigger
theatre, and that is what Sir
Laurence Olivier and his com-
pany want. From Melbourne,
David N. Martin said that the
Sydney Tiv. had been definitely
booked, and the Ballet Rambert
would open on January 31, the
Old Vic Company some time in
April. Mr. Martin denied a
statement by Kathleen Robin-
son that, though Whitehall Pro-
ductions’ lease of the Minerva
had expired on June 24, 1947,
it was entitled, “under a further
agreement,” to “remain in pos-
session of the Minerva theatre
for a considerable period, and
we are not merely relying on the
National Security regulations, as
he contends.” Martin maintained
that the lease had expired.
Miss Robinson told the press
that “last year I was offered
considerable benefits to leave
the Minerva theatre because Mr.
Martin wanted to sell it to a
film company.” (A contract,
not yet carried out, has
been entered into with Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer for the sale of
the Minerva for £87,000 cash.)
The remarkable financial back-
ground of the Minerva and
Tivoli theatres, with David Mar-
tin as the central figure and with
show business elaborately en-
tangled with share business, was
detailed here on December 17.
“At great expense” the Tivoli
theatres in Sydney and Mel-
bourne have been starring
George Formby in recent
months. Minerva Centre, Ltd.,
has a big financial interest in
the Tivoli enterprises.
* * * *
Mortgage interest rates in
New Zealand are hovering a
shade below 4 p.c, (they touched ;
3.85 p.c. in two months of 1947), j
and borrowers and lenders are
sparring for position at the open- ,
ing of 1948. For five years past'
rates have swung in favor of !
borrowers, with nearly 0.9 p.c.
chopped off the cost of mortgage
money, but the pendulum seems
poised for a return, if it hasn’t
begun to move back already.
There won’t be a repetition of
1947 mortgage lending of
£12,317,000 at under 3 p.c.;
interest is bound to harden,
while tightening-up on bank
overdrafts to business, which will
drive companies into the outside
capital market, is likely to mop
up some millions that have been
lying round for mortgagors.
Still, there’s sure to be enough
money to keep the building in-
dustry going at close to capacity.
Mortgage totals have climbed as
costs have soared and M.L.’s
pound has shrunk, so it is doubt-
ful whether the £31,687,000 in
mortgage loans last year repre-
sents more real building than
£20,100,000 in the last pre-war
year. There’s no doubt, however,
about the rise in mortgage costs
on the average house when
thumping increases for building
materials and wages are balanced
against modest interest cuts. As
competition for funds gets
keener there will be a reaction
against building costs, which are
overdue for a knock, anyhow.
* * * *
Stables other than those of
established repute are becoming
interested in new goldmining
flotations, and the speculat-
ing public will be well ad-
vised to watch its step when
offered shares in ventures not
backed by prospecting experi-
ence, technical ability and finan-
cial nous. Taking a longish view,
though costs in Australia are
still rising, gold itself seems
bound to take a lift eventually,
and if it does goldmines are
bound to come on to the share-
market with a rush. Going on
past experience, only a small
proportion will have been in-
vestigated as thoroughly as those
which have been offered from
time to time by Western Mining
Corp., Gold Exploration and
the Placer group. The public
should look particularly hard at
new floats which the vendors
have dipped into heavily for
cash as consideration for op-
tions, leases, etc. And, of course,
the best of goldmines are still
gambles, most suitable as a
speculation for people in the
high-income-tax groups.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT ASSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements t>f claims.
Thomas A. Magney, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson
“pw /, , ’ Ma r , naglng Director - S - T - GUTTER,: General Sge?!
one (font lines) BWB3CI. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt St., Sydney.
Two years after
the Battle of Waterloo
t
It was in 1817, only two years after Waterloo,
that Sergeant Jeremiah Murphy, of the 46th
Regiment, opened an account with the Bank
of New South Wales and became the first
depositor in the first bank in Australia.
Throughout the following years, this Bank
has done more than any other institution
to develop Australia’s resources.
Its substantial and continuous assistance to
primary and secondary industry and its
practical encouragement of oversea trade are
vital contributions to the prosperity of this
country.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
{lncorporated in New South Wales with limited liability)
A4711D
THE LIFE BLOOD OF AGR
Tr~K’"~7T'
CULTURE
Probably with no other equip-
ment for the Agriculturist is
there such an urgent necessity
for cautious buying as there is
with pumping appliances.
Our long experience is at your
service, and our experts will
safeguard your interests by guid-
ing you in the selection of the
most efficient pump for your
purpose.
PH
''X
Mr.
cK
m
j)
AJAX
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
MODERN DESIGN INCLUDES
CAREFULLY SELECTED BALL BEARINGS
CAPACITIES for Ajax Centrifugal
Pumps range from 10 gallons to 450
gallons per minute with heads from
10 to 200 feet, and depending on the
size of pump and horse-power and
speed applied. Full particulars of
these pumps are available in a special
leaflet.
MANUFACTURED BY
tersotfs
LIMITED
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney. 546 Collins Street, Melbourne. And at Adelaide and Perth.
AJAX SELF OILING
PISTON PUMPS
★ Will give years of trouble-free
service.
★ Require less attention than any
other type of Piston Pump.
★ Can also be fitted for Engine
Drives.
★ Will force water against a total
head of ISO feet, including a
suction lift of 22 feet.
Automatic Lubrication.
New Issues in 1948
The amount of new capital
issued, in shares and by
premium, by Australian public
companies during 1947 has been
estimated at something more
than £22 million —far and away
a record. Since then McPher-
sons, Ltd., has received appro-
val for an issue of 245,000 £1
ords. at a premium of £1 con-
ditionally upon its undertaking
to reduce its overdraft. Both
the Commonwealth Bank and
Mr. Chifley have expressed a de-
sire that companies should cease
relying on overdraft accommo-
dation for capital expenditure
and should instead ask their
shareholders or the public for
more permanent share capita;!.
The turning of overdrafts into
share capital, with the added
effect of the expected post-war
expansion and rehabilitation of
Australian industry, should
bring a flood of new issues on
the market in 1948.
Many people are wondering
what is going to happen in the
case of 8.H.P., especially when
it goes ahead with its tin-
plate scheme. At last balance-
day the co. and its subsidiaries
held £7,636,999 in cash and
Consols ; but its creditors and
tax provision were little short of
this at £7,348,936. The co. in-
tends to put up a hot-cold strip
mill and tinplate plant adjacent
to the Port Kembla (N.S.W.)
works of Australian Iron and
Steel, in conjunction with that
subsidiary. American experts
from the United Engineering
and Foundry Co., Pittsburgh,
will provide the engineering ser-
vices in connection with the de-
sign and construction. The capi-
tal involved will run into many
millions. The steelworks proper,
at Newcastle, Port Kembla and
Whyalla, as well as the new iron-
ore development at Yampi, will
undoubtedly make calls for new
equipment as time goes by.
B.H.P.’s present issued capital is
£13,884,902 in £1 shares.
Thomas Owen and Co.
(Aust.) will be offering £750,000
of 5 p.c. prefs. to the Australian
public this year in order to help ,
finance a plant to make writing
papers, etc., at Ballarat. J. B.
Were and Son, Melbourne, have
underwritten a £1,250,000 issue
of 4\ p.c. debentures for N.Z.
Forest Products, Ltd. lan Potter
and Co. are offering £1,400,000
of £3 4s. per cent. Sydney
Water Board debentures.
It would not be surprising if
Yarra Falls, Ltd., came on to
the market for more capital to
extend its spinning and worsted
sections if new plant can be got
from Britain. The acute short-
age of Australian worsted con-
tinues, and Yarra Falls has
established a high standard and
reputation for its products, and
the overseas demand is keen.
The textile industry as a whole
may be seeking more capital
this year. Chief obstacle is the
difficulty of buying plant once
the capital is raised, the next is
getting operatives to run the
spindles and looms. The industry
is becoming widely decentra-
lised for the second reason.
Plans of Courtaulds in Australia
are not yet clear.
Nor are the precise intentions
of the Nuffield group. Austra-
lians may be asked to contribute
financially to any large-scale
motor-car enterprise, but noth-
ing is yet certain. General-
Motors Holden’s established
heavy liabilities in its 1946
trading year, mostly in respect
of imported chassis which it was
not possible to equip with bodies
because of material and labor
shortages in Australia. When
new capital is required it may
be provided by General Motors
(U.S.A.), though prefs. would
be probably issued on the Aus-
tralian market. The co. is going
ahead with the manufacture of
an Australian car, engine in-
cluded.
When it becomes possible (a)
to build freely and ( b ) to buy
plant within a reasonable time,
whether of Australian or im-
ported make, many industries
will be on the market for extra
capital. Some evidence of this
will be seen in 1948, more later
on.
The attitude of Capital Issues
Control to new issues is not
always the same, but premiums
are being asked in most cases.
The Prices Branch will have to
establish a rule in respect of
the earnings of new capital,
since it is manifestly interested
in profits-control. New capital
takes time to become fully re-
productive, too, and there may
be some effect on ord. dividends
in certain cases where new issues
are made, especially where pre-
sent rates leave little profits for
reserves.
Sharemarket Strong
Initial activity on ’Change the
first business week of 1948
was at prices generally higher
than at any time in 1947. A
pointer to this had been the
earlier London market for Aus-
tralian stocks, particularly
Barriers; North Broken Hill
had been traded at the equiva-
lent of 825., Australian currency,
compared with a last Melbourne
sale of 80s. 3d. in 1947.
First sale in the southern capi-
tal for 1948 was at 81s. 6d., with
sellers scarce. There were later
dealings of 82s. 6d.
Shares in Broken Hill Pro-
prietary, which is no longer
deeply interested in the Barrier,
were active at higher prices from
the beginning; buyers still
offered 83s. for Tooth (brewery)
scrip. Australian Consolidated
Industries ords. rose Is., to
665. 3d. ; and these three stocks,
with North Broken Hill, pretty
well represented the opening
tone of the market for 1948.
When ’Change opened for the
year 1940 the highest prices for
more than two years were paid.
A.C.I. went to 395. 6d., and
Broken Hill Prop, changed hands
at 50s. Tooth, then on a 12
p.c. div. (13| p.c. now), sold at
535. 6d. North Broken Hill was
around 48s. 6d., with metal prices
fixed in Australia and Britain.
These quotations of eight
years ago give us some basis for
comparison of the present with
the past. Then, as now, buoyant
conditions prevailed: it was the
“phony war” period, before the
blitz on the Low Countries and
France.
But the Federal basic wage
was 795. then, against £5 10s. or
more today—a rise of nearly
40 p.c. And wages generally
are up to a greater extent than
that, as are living costs. Hous-
ing costs have doubled mean-
time. So the £ that was used
to buy shares in 1940 was of
more value than the currency-
unit of today. Interest yields,
too, were generally higher then.
With low earnings from all
kinds of fixed-interest securities
the demand for equity shares has
spread since the war began, even
assurance cos. now buying shares
for investment, while some
trustee-executor cos. are asking
testators to approve first-class
ordinary and preference shares
as trustee stocks for investment
of estate funds. The volume of
idle money in the trading banks,
savings banks and held as cur-
rency has more than doubled
over the past seven years, adding
to investment and spending
pressures.
Australia in these days, by
comparison with 1939, has a
broader prospect ahead of it if
it can once get rid of the Can-
berra doctrinaires and parasites.
Wool promises to have a wider
market, and with rational gov-
ernment and stable social and
industrial conditions we may ex-
pect greater industrial develop-
ment, increased population,
higher living standards; these
things should add to the value
and scope of basic industrial en-
terprises apart altogether from
the inescapable effect of mone-
tary inflation upon capital costs
and values.
Broken Hill Proprietary seems
to be in for a period of expan-
sion, rising output, and probably
higher dividends; the div. rate
was 5 p.c. for most of the war
period, and could fairly be
double that at present, as against
the last interim of 8y p.c. The
tinplate plan may be tackled
again before very long.
Bradford Cotton shares have
not responded in the recent mar-
ket activity, and can be got for
545. With power supplies
more regular-, and labor supplies
a little freer, this extremely en-
terprising concern should be do-
ing better for its shareholders,
and it is less likely to be re-
stricted in its use of raw cotton
from the dollar area than many
other manufacturers using
dollar-area imports. Under
easier working conditions Brad-
ford Cotton has brighter pros-
pects than most Australian tex-
tile concerns, the market not be-
ing so well supplied with cotton
manufactures as with woollens.
Though a higher premium is
being paid for some woollen and
worsted concerns at the present
time, in the long run Bradford
may turn out to be a better in-
vestment. Present div. rate is
10 p.c. —unchanged for eight
years. There are 369,487 new
2s. 6d.-paid ords. issued on
which another 10s. has just been
called, indicating that new plant
may be delivered soon.
People paying present high
prices for North Broken Hill
shares should keep watch on
economic conditions in the
United States, which, as a large
importer of lead, is mainly re-
sponsible for the extremely high
price now being paid for the
metal. North shares (dividend
200 p.c.) give a very good pre-
sent return even at 82s. paid for
the ss. denominators ; but every-
thing depends on prices over-
seas and costs at home. The
Australian price of lead is only
a fraction of the export figure.


ARE YOU PLANNING AN
UP-TO-DATE SHEARING SHED?
I
Get the benefit of the latest
overseas ideas when planning your
new farm buildings. Write JO-DAY to SERVICE DEPART-
MENT, JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., 33 Macquarie
Place, Sydney, for free sketch plans and data sheets
covering the building project you have in mind. Offered
entirely without cost, this service is available to all farmers
and builders utilizing Lysaghts galvanized iron, Lysaghts
Zinc-anneal and allied products . . .
There is a
YSAGHT
steel sheet for every building need
/
J
The following sketch
plans with data sheets
are now available and
offered without cost to
all farmers and
builders!
• MODERN DAIRIES
• GRAIN SILOS
• SHEARING SHEDS
• MODEL PIGGERIES
• IMPLEMENT SHEDS
• GRAIN SHEDS
• CHAFF SHEDS
• POULTRY SHEDS
n &
<3
/
since I’ve had
the wonderful new
ACME
I get full marks
, for my washing
c< How white the clothes are
mother.” Yes, those compliments
are the reward of the woman who
uses the new Acme Cleanser
Wringer, with its amazing power
of cleansing the clothes as it wrings
them.
What is the Acme secret ? Pressure!
Controlled pressure, which forces out
every last scrap of dirt never mind
whether you are washing a heavy
blanket or a baby’s bib. So gently,
tOO the most delicate fabric is com-
CLEANSER
WRINGER
Other star features make the Acme
outstanding. Don’t delay! Ask your
dealer TODAY to show you the latest
post-war Acme, designed in every detail
to ease your washday to give you a
wash really fresh and sweet, snowy
clean.
Obtainable at all leading hardware
and departmental stores.
pletely safe with the Acme.
Supplies are still
limited owing to short-
age of raw materials,
so if you can’t get an
Acme right away don’t
be put off with a second
best the best’s well
worth waiting for.
acme
Factory Representatives ,
MESSRS. J. CHALEYER & COMPANY,
PIONEER BOOSE 353, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE, C.I.
SUNDRY SHOWS
The Stage and Equity.
Apart from a vaudeville house
in each capital city, Australia
has only five professional legit,
theatres —three in Melbourne
and two in Sydney, one of which
is a mile or so out of the city at
King’s Cross. All the capitals,
of course, are liberally provided
with talkies —Sydney has over a
dozen first-release film houses,
a rough proportion of six pic-
ture shows to each legit, pro-
gramme. In melancholy con-
trast London has over 40> legiti-
mate theatres against approxi-
mately 20 first-release “pitcher
shows.” New York has about
the same number of stage shows
as London.
Australia, of course, has a
good number of “little” theatres,
known variously as repertory,
semi-professional or amateur.
Most of them are doing excel-
lent work and presenting good
plays, but they are only the
fringe of “the theatre.” They
are a vitally necessary fringe,
providing a testing and training
ground for actors, authors and
directors, and only through them
is it possible to see many excel-
lent plays which, because of
their limited appeal, would never
be a paying proposition in a full-
size professional theatre. But
even these little theatres are
frustrated in their work —most
of their talent remains where it
is, goes on to radio or leaves the
stage for more remunerative in-
terests because the professional
stage has so little to offer.
No blame could be attached to
any aspiring Australian actor if
he took to bricklaying instead.
As things are with the stage he
would probably be doing a wise
thing. The largest city, it is re-
peated, has only three profes-
sional theatres, including one
vaudeville house, and can’t even
offer one play to compete with a
dozen or more film houses, most
of which are showing trash,
and none of which is showing
anything remotely resembling
adult entertainment. The rea-
sons for the decline to this
lamentable state are many, an
abdication to the talkies being
one of them and a lack of “cul-
tural education” being another.
Linked with those two causes,
and part of them, is a radio
which generally caters for any-
thing except the mind and a
press which fills its pages with
publicity tripe from Hollywood
for the edification of ’teen-agers.
Some of the most urgent needs
of the Australian stage are
obvious. In no other sphere is
there such a peculiar combina-
tion, such a touchy balance, of
art and business as there is in the
theatre. It is a business and an
art without being either. If it
becomes too much of a commer-
cial proposition it stagnates ; if
it swings too much to “art” it
dwindles to a “little theatre” of
limited interest, eventually un-
able to pay its way as a going
professional concern. To pre-
serve the balance requires a
“showman” of the old kind —•
someone with the “instinct,
knowledge and love backed by
determination” ; someone with
both business ability and with
an understanding of the ways of
actors, authors and directors;
someone with a flair for pub-
licity and an understanding of
the even more unpredictable
ways of audiences. He’s a rare
bird, but the Australian stage
has hatched one or two before
this.
But what is needed more than
a “showman,” and what is most
likely to produce him, is a stimu-
lation of interest in the stage
and, with it, a reasonable
gamble that audiences will fill
the theatres. Such a stimulation
comes from many directions,
but mainly from education,
whether provided by the theatre
itself, the schools, little theatres,
the press or straightout pub-
licity. And there are few en-
couragements like interest, par-
ticularly of a financial kind.
Australian literature, painting
and music are all supported
by scholarships or direct
monetary awards, or both,
but there is little similar
inducement offering for the
authors and actors of plays. It
has always been the privilege and
obligation of wealth to patron-
ise the arts, and Australian
drama offers an excellent op-
portunity for some philanthro-
pist to perpetuate his memory.
In the meantime the decline
of the professional stage in Aus-
tralia continues, and its eventual
extinction is by no means an
impossibility—it is pretty well
extinct in three capital cities
now. J.C.W.’s His Majesty’s in
Brisbane seems to have been
lost, for the present anyway, to
the fillums, and there has been
talk, at least, of Sydney Minerva
going the same way. The last
few outposts are being defended
by vaudeville, by an occasional
new play, by many, many re-
vivals of moth-infested favor-
ites of the past and, mainly, by
visits from topline overseas
companies and artists.
Manifestly these touring com-
panies have become a necessity
to the continued existence of the
Australian stage they are
always worth having and worth
encouraging. But it should not
be necessary to depend bn them
to keep theatres going. As it is
they are almost invaluable. The
visits of' Colonel de Basil’s
ballet company, for instance,
developed an interest in ballet
that is still going strong and
which has received fresh impetus
from the Ballet Rambert season
in Melbourne —it will open at
Sydney Tiv. on January 31. The
impending visit of Laurence
Olivier’s Old Vic. company
should do something similar for
straight drama if, of course,
their appearance is permitted by
Mr. Marshall Crosby and Mr.
H. Alexander, president and sec-
retary respectively of Actors’
Equity.
Mr. Alexander rushed on to
the field shortly after a “S. M.
Herald” writer had lamented
that there was not a straight
play showing at any profes-
sional theatre in Australia.
Equity’s demands were that, un-
less the Old Vic. occupied a
theatre not already staging flesh-
and-blood shows, a percentage
of the principal players (vari-
ously reported at anything up to
75 per cent.) must be Austra-
lians, or the theatre manage-
ment concerned must’ find full
alternative employment for the
Australian stage players dis-
placed by the Old Vic. com-
pany. Mr, Alexander had it all
sewn up:
If this matter comes to a show-
down, I don’t think Sir Laurence
Olivier and the Old Vic. company
will come to Australia at all, be-
cause we have already exchanged a
good deal of correspondence with
British Actors’ Equity.
There the matter seemed to
rest until January 5, when Mr.
Marshall Crosby was heard
from —unless Equity’s demands
were met “We will use every
possible means to stop any show
by an all-overseas cast.” On
the following day it was an-
nounced that Sydney Tiv. had
been offered for the Ballet Ram-
bert and for the Old Vic. com-
pany—and there is no more
suitable theatre in Sydney for
both shows. Mr. Alexander was
in the limelight again to the
effect that he expected British
Actors’ Equity to direct that Old
Vic. members were not to play
in Australia unless Australian
Equity’s conditions were com-
plied with: —
Equity is not opposed to imported
talent, but we do object to Australian
actors being displaced and having
their livelihood adversely affected by
imported shows.
On the following day it was
stated that Sydney Tiv. was
definitely booked for the Ballet
Rambert and for the Old Vic.
company, the latter to open in
Sydney on April 17 with
“Richard III,” followed by
“School for Scandal” and Thorn-
ton Wilder’s “The Skin of Our
Teeth.”
Since then neither Mr. Alex-
ander nor Mr. Crosby has
burgeoned into print, but it is
probably too much to hope that
they will not be heard from
again. On the face of it,
they have the semblance of a
case—that Australian players
will be displaced By overseas
artists. The stage, however, has
always been like that, and any-
one who follows it must face
spells of unemployment. But
that is not all. The visit
and the composition of the Old
Vic. company are not something
to be decided by Mr. Crosby or
Mr. Alexander or their union.
Theatregoers have an undeni-
able right to see the company
if it is willing to come to Aus-
tralia, and it is not for any petty
union official to usurp the func-
tion of dictating what they shall
or shall not have in the way of
entertainment.
There is more at stake. It is
hard enough to reconcile busi-
ness and art and produce
“theatre.” If a third factor,
such as Australian unionism at
its worst, with its dictatorial bans
and strikes and its minority
rule, has to be contended with,
neither producers nor overseas
companies will have any inclina-
tion to come anywhere near the
Australian stage.
Finally, there is the case for
the Australian stage itself. The
visit of the Old Vic. company
will do more in the way of stimu-
lating interest in the profes-
sional theatre, in little theatres,
in actors and acting, and in
audiences, than anything has
done for years. The cancella-
tion of the visit, or any inter-
ference with it, would do the
Australian stage far more per-
manent harm than would the
temporary unemployment of a
handful of players. And, any-
way, the players themselves are
only as well off as the theatre,
and anything which benefits it
must in the long run benefit
them.
P.D.


Women’s Letters.
From Sydney
January is the doldrums as far as the
social life of this city is concerned. And
it just seems that the usual flat small-
beerish brew will continue to be served
until the 30th. On that day the U.S.
Navy, well at any rate 3300 of it, sails
into Sydney Heads. They are the 300
officers and 3000 seamen of U.S. Task
Force 38, and they come in one aircraft-
carrier, Valley Forge (Rear-Admiral
Harold Martin, commander) two de-
stroyers and a tanker. They will leave
us in the usual flood of'tears and fare-
wells on February 4 and take their charm
and their flashing smiles to Hong Kong.
Parties listed are cocktails in H.M.A.S.
Australia —Rear-Admiral Farncomb the
host, a reception by U.S. Consul-General
Neilsen at the Australia on January 31,
a tea dance in Valley Forge on February
2, when Rear-Admiral Martin will enter-
tain Sydney friends.
The theatre world will be all gold-top
and orchids on the night of January 31.
The Ballet Rambert opens its Sydney
season at the Tivoli on that night. Let’s
hope to Heaven it is fine, for all the girls
in the audience will want to air their
finest plumage. The opening programme
promises a thrill. “Swan Lake,” “Simple
Symphony,” “Lady into Fox” and “Peter
and the Wolf” are the works chosen.
Last week 70 play centres were thrown
open for children of all ages from kinder-
garten to last-year-at-schoolers. The
National Fitness Council has a great deal
to do with this healthy and happy move-
ment ; so have shires and councils, and
these, which mean indirectly you and me,
will bear the expenses. And it makes
most of us feel happier to think that we
are helping to give - thousands and
thousands of schoolchildren who other-
wise would have street-corners or their
own yards and gardens to play in, during
the school holidays, pleasant surroundings,
parks and gardens, and showgrounds, and
companionship for their fun and games.
Trained supervisors are at all the grounds,
and they lead the youngsters not only in
games but in handcrafts, dancing and
acting and singing. The children are also
given half a pint of milk each at midday.
And if you doubt the popularity of this
movement you should have seen the
happy hordes of school-agers waiting for
the gates of the play centres to be thrown
open.
Bulletin’s managing director H. K.
(Ken) Prior said “How d’you do?” to
his first grandson, last week. Daughter
Joan, Mrs. Peter Vesper, introduced her
son to grandfather and the world at the
Mater Misericordiae Maternity Hospital
10 days ago. Baby will be named
Kenneth William.
There are 142 children from the Far
West in holiday camp at Manly by the
sea. They come from Bourke and Broken
Hill, from Walgett, Hillston, Cobar, Wil-
cannia, White Cliffs (and it is a long day
since those cliffs felt the smack of the
salt spray on them). They come from the
Border Fence, which runs between
Queensland and South Australia and
N.S.W. At nightfall there must be
something eerie about that wide-flung
lonely horizon, and even about the fence
itself, which is there to keep the wild dogs
of the three States from travelling at will
The dwellers here are mostly men who
work at the fence keeping it in order.
Almost every home has its bore and its
windmill, and that is all the water the
children of the Border Fence know. But
now, because a padre named Stanley
Drummond had a great vision, there are
a cluster of these Border Fence children
in camp at the Public School, Manly.
They, as well as the other young Far
Westerners, had their first glimpse of the
sea last week. Easy to bet that the swell-
ing heart of stout Cortez didn’t come
nearly so close to bursting with emotion
as did the hearts of those 142 as they first
gazed on the Pacific.
And now if you want mundane details,
the kiddies bunk in the classrooms, and
have their meals cooked in a temporarily-
equipped kitchen in the school and served
in two large marquees in the grounds.
They have been to the zoo, and tours of
the city have been arranged. Up to date
no airways company had offered them
flights over the Harbor, but surely that
isn’t beyond the bounds of possibility.
Mr. and Mrs. Jo Fallon received a
Christmas greeting from Sydney’s old
friends Lord and Lady Gifford one day
last week. It’s a really pleasant and
hearty card carrying a warm invitation in
verse to drop in and visit the senders.
The front of the card is printed with a
map of Ifield, where the Giffords live.
The whole of the Sussex village is set out
as plain /as can be, with pictures of
the post-office, the inn and other
sites, printed in black and grass-green—
very important. There’s also a picture of
Langley Grange, the Gifford home, and a
verse which leads:
This year we greet you with a map
To guide you here without mishap,
So do not throw this card away,
But keep it for a happier day
When cars are on the road once more,
Follow the arrow to our door.
Calla lilies by the hundred and more
than 1000 gladioli blooms decorated All
Saints’ Church, Woollahra, last Thurs-
day when Barbara Finlay became the
wife of Richard Littlejohn. All the
flowers came from the gardens of Brack-
ley House, home of Barbara’s parents,
the Mervyn Finlays. ’Groom’s parents
are Albert Littlejohn and Mrs. Charles
Tilden (Feminist Linda Littlejohn), now
of Connecticut, U.S.A. Bride’s frock
was of white chiffon lame, the skirt very
full and flowing. Reception was at the
Royal Sydney Golf Club. From Eng-
land came cabled good wishes from Lord
and Lady Gowrie. Mrs. Tilden made her
congratulations by telephone.
When the City of Calcutta really makes
up her mind to make the trip to Eng-
land, no Sydney passenger in her will be
happier than Andree Duboise, the girl
in this picture. Andree sails for Eng-
land and matrimony. The young man
anxiously awaiting her arrival is Lieuten-
ant James Kelly, at present instructor at
the Royal Naval College, Dartmouth.
When Andree and Lieut. Kelly met he
was in Australian waters in charge of
H.M. submarine Truncheon. Andree
is one of the good-looking daughters of
the Rose Bay branch of this well-known
Sydney family. With her will travel
sister Suzanne. The two girls plan to do
quite a bit of bicycling about rural Eng-
land, as cars have again been put away
because of petrol shortages. On the
journey Andree intends to re-read her
favorite writer, Jane Austen. She and
her husband will live at Dartmouth,
where he has been lucky enough to secure
a flat.
Most-talked-of engagement of the week
is that of Noreen Dangar and Sydney
barrister Bertram Wright. Noreen, who
is an heiress without airs, is one of the
most popular among Red Cross person-
alities. During the war Miss Dangar
went to England to represent the Aus-
tralian Red Cross. Her father, the late
Major C, C. Dangar, served in World
War I. Her mother is Mrs. H. K.
Gordon, of Edgecliff. The father of her
betrothed was Archbishop Wright of this
city.
Some forebear of American traveller
Paul Huffard, who arrived on Sunday
morning by Constellation, loved the
classics, fof Paul’s second name is
Philippi. You remember your “Julius
Cassar.” Mr. Huffard, who is presi-
dent of International Eveready, brought
with him to Australia his wife and
daughter Priscilla. When in their own
land they all live at Plandome, Long
Island, and have other luxury homes
scattered about U.S. Paul Philippi is a
member of all the best clubs, including
the Millionaires and “the Cloud” Club.
This got its name from being set in the
tower of the Chrysler building, and being
literally often “in the clouds.” A lunch
with Keith Butler at the Steel Mills, New-
castle, a lunch in Canberra with America’s
Ambassador, and a week-end visit to the
Essington Lewis Farm are among engage-
ments listed for the next 10 days.
The Casper Middletons, who are great
friends of playwright Ashley Dukes, and
were touring all through the war enter-
taining the troops, have sailed for Lon-
don. In England Mrs. Middleton
is booked to play Polly Peachum .in
“The Beggar’s Opera” at the County
Theatre, Bedford. Then she plays lead in
“The Three Waltzes.” Husband produces
both. Mrs. Middleton has a link with
Maoriland. Her father was one-time
Mayor of Marton in the North Island.
This Letter’s friends the Junior Red
Crossers have sent along a calendar with
wishes for a glad New Year. It’s a neat
little affair mounted on thin brown paper
and looped with a cinnamon-brown silk
cord, and it’s light enough to hang from
an ordinary pin. But it is the picture
above the bunch of dates that points a
moral at the Housing Commission. There
in its weather-proofed and compact home
set amidst blossoming boughs sits a small
bird, intense gratification in her eye. And
why not? She has a home of her own —
not an in-law within sight. The place
isn’t prefabricated either. The lady’s pal
is busy adding a few finishing touches to
the arboreal flat.
The Legacy Clubs of Australia, in com-
memoration of the late General Gelli-
brand, have established a scholarship for
two years’ post-graduate study in Eng-
land. The scholarship is open to gradu-
ates of Australian universities who are,
or have been, members of a junior or
intermediate Legacy club. University
fees, fares, books and a tax-free allow-
ance of £260 a year are included in the
scholarship. Applications close on
February 15, 1948. Tasmania is the first
beneficiary under the scheme.
From Melbourne
Melbourne Comedy was packed to the
rafters for the third production of the
Kiwis. This company of New Zealand
ex-servicemen has been at the Comedy
since December 21, 1946 —the longest run
of any one company in the annals of that
theatre. “Benghazi,” the new revue, is as
fast and as amusing as the previous!
“Alamein” and “Tripoli.” With Lois
Lathlean was Sydney visitor Mrs. E.
Cato, smart in a short black crepe frock.
Joan Keast had large silver birds em-
broidered across the bodice of her black
dress, while Anne Wilton chose a bal-
lerina frock of apple-green crepe. Jean
Darragh’s pretty pastel-blue crepe dress
was highlighted with silver beading;
Lelie Potter wore an attractive combina-
tion of black taffeta and tulle.
The attractive lass whose smile has
been caught by Athol Shmith’s camera
is Patricia Elizabeth, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Green, of Malvern,
who has announced her engagement to
Derek, only son of Mr. and Mrs. J. A.
V. Rumbold, of South Yarra. Educated
at Sacre Coeur, Pat left school in the
last year of the war, joined the
W. and was attached to the
Royal Navy in this city as a driver.
These days she works in her father’s
office. Pat’s engagement ring, of square-
cut sapphire surrounded with diamonds,
was designed and made by her fiance.
Wedding plans depend, as usual, upon
the housing situation, but the middle of
the year is the present hope.
A surprisingly warm day gave women
racegoers the opportunity to wear gay
summery clothes and large white straw
hats to the Moonee Valley Racing Club’s
Charity Meeting. The course was agleam
with color, and gay florals had a field day.
Soft pastels were chosen by many, and
white was the popular choice for acces-
sories. Particularly striking was the tropi-
cal print chosen by Mrs. Les Sangster for
her frock. Bright royal-blue flowers and
green leaves with a background of white
silk jersey gave her an opportunity to
sport a large white hat and bright yellow
suede shoes with cork soles and heels.
Mrs. Constance Day’s large black hat was
ultra smart with a silver butterfly on the
upturned brim and its fellow perched in
her hair. This hat was worn with a
tailored natural toned linen suit and a
blouse of black organza.
Mrs. Des McCormack chose navy and
white for Moonee Valley. A wide-pleated
panel of white crepe was inserted in the
skirt at one side. Her large navy-blue
straw hat was decorated with white veil-
ing. Pamela Sleight wore an aqua-green
linen suit with a wide sailor collar edged
with a frill of white lace. Her hat had
field flowers as trimming. Shirley Watts
was decorative in pastel blue. Mrs. Nigel
Prichard wore black and a large amber
straw hat edged and banded in black
grosgrain ribbon. The Robinson lady was
suited in grey, with a dark-green off-
the-face hat trimmed with brown.
Nan Dethridge had white lace edging
the Peter Pan collar and pockets of her
navy-blue linen suit; Mrs. Theo Lewis
set off her fair coloring with a frock and
short box coat of white crepe; blue-and-
white-patterned silk was chosen by Mrs.
Frank Watts. Also at the races was Cap-
tain John Blood, A.D.C. to the Governor,
Sir Winston Dugan. The Governor and
Lady Dugan are holidaying in Tasmania.
Pretty Juanita Fendick, younger daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Fendick and
granddaughter of knight Herbert Olney
and his lady, is in the midst of prepara-
tions for her marriage to Will Drever at
St. Paul’s Cathedral on Saturday, January
17. Among many pre-Wedding functions
are a dinner-party for both families given
by Mr. and Mrs. Sam Wells at their
East Melbourne flat and a luncheon-
party hostessed by Lorraine Drever,
Juanita’s prospective sister-in-law. Lor-
raine and Desma Watts will be the brides-
maids.
Although the city was more or less
paralysed by a tram strike, balletomanes
managed to reach Melbourne Princess for
the Ballet Rambert’s change of pro-
gramme. Dressing was informal, but here
and there a lovely formal gown relieved
the monotony. Outstanding was that worn
by Mrs. Morris Sallmann, escorted by
her sailor son, Sub.-Lieut. Anthony Sall-
mann, who is home on leave. Mrs. Sall-
mann’s gown was of black crepe, the
bodice featuring shoestring straps, but
her shoulders gleamed through a filmy
black coin-spotted tulle scarf.
At the end of this month the Ballet
Rambert moves from the Princess to
make room for Doris Fitton’s Independ-
ents from Sydney. They will open in
Melbourne with “The Litttle Foxes” and,
it is hoped, will follow with “Mourning
Becomes Electra.” Melbourne theatre-
goers are still talking of the Independents’
excellent performances of “Electra” at
the Comedy a year or so ago.
A wedding which created interest in
ballet circles was that of Grace McLean,
member of the Melbourne Ballet Guild
and youngest daughter of Mrs. McLean
of Fairfield and the late J. D. McLean, to
Kenneth Stevenson. They were married
at St. Peter’s Church, Eastern Hill, by
Canon Farnham Maynard. Kenneth is
the youngest son of Mrs. Stevenson, of
England, and the late Bishop Stevenson,
of Grafton, and is a brother of Mrs. A. C.
Rumsey —she was Dorothy Stevenson, one
of this country’s outstanding dancers. For
her wedding, Grace chose a gown of
oyster-pink satin, and her cream-lace veil
was held in place with Ophelia roses.
Mrs. Graham Allen, known to balleto-
manes as Noel Murray, was matron-of-
honor, and wore apple-green mar-
quisette contrasted with a bouquet of
deep-pink roses. The bride was given
away by her brother, N. W. McLean ;
Lieut.-Commander H. D. Stevenson,
R.A.N., was his brother’s bestman.
Fashion shows are in the air and the
new autumn fashions are a little hard to
take, since Melbourne has been blessed
with very little summer. Now and again,
however, a warm day dawns and out come
the “pretties,” which, with unfailing regu-
larity, go back into the wardrobe after a
few hours’ wear. The autumn fashions
shown by Douglas Cox and designed by
Australian Mrs. McLaughlin are charm-
ing and wearable. In the new styles the
lines emphasise the smallness of waists ;
shoulders are dropped and sleeves take
on new interest—they are dolman or rag-
lan with a smooth shoulder and under-
arm fullness.
There are many capes and cape-
jackets, and the pushed-up sleeve has
made an appearance. Characteristics of
the new collections are the dropped day
and the lifted evening skirts. For day,
skirts range from about 14 inches to eight
or even seven inches from the ground.
The evening skirt reaches to the ankles.
Skirts on day dresses are bouffant; on
suits they are tight and often slit at the
side.
In the changing classic suit a light
jacket is allied with a full-gored black
skirt; hip interest is achieved by pockets.
Jackets are longer, and a noteworthy sil-
houette is seen in the wool daytime dress
—shoulders are rounded, there’s a built-in
waistline and the fitted bodice buttons at
the back and breaks into a gracefully full,
back-swing skirt. Topcoats are fitted to
the waist and then develop flaring width
below the hipline. For five-o’clock dresses
the neckline appears to have plunged to
the limit, while coats may have collars
which stand up to cover the ears.


THE SERVICE MAN
Chifley Holds a Conference.
“Ek Dum”: Much has been printed
about a conference which the Prime
Minister is supposed to have held in Mel-
bourne with Defence authorities.
It is recorded that the P.M. discussed
two years’ financial requirements of the
services —• requirements which were
thrashed out months ago and included in
the budget and in a series of schemes
wiiich Ministers reannounce every few
weeks.
The cumulative impression of these
announcements is that Ministers for the
services suffer a perennial series of black-
outs, waking up once a month to change
their shirts and discovering on their tables
a five-year plan which they placed there
on going to sleep and which they have
completely forgotten and now reissue.
As this is a democratic country, and
as it is solemnly averred that Mr. Chifley,
who is primarily responsible for its
defence, has been told all there is to
know about the matters with which he
should already be thoroughly familiar,
there seems to be no harm in giving those
who are paying |or the forces an in-
sight into events.
The Government last August set out
to recruit about 17,000 recruits for the
Permanent Army, which, clerks and
bottle-washers included, was expected to
reach a strength of 19,000.
The official advertising campaign must
have cost about £5OO for each of the 1800
recruits obtained.
The Interim Army is due to end after
the winter, with most of its members go-
ing out in April.
The men —in the official lexicon, “other
ranks,” it being held disgraceful to
be a man or a “private” or a “soldier”
—are now to be offered all the delights
of permanent service, which, from the
Government advertisements, appear to
include £l2 a week, a life of leisure and
travel and a future provided for to the
grave.
The New Uniform
As an added attraction, the o.rs. are
to be given a new uniform which is in-
tended to make them look and feel what
they are not —officers.
Actually what they will look like will
be N. S. Wales Police Commissioner
Mac Kay’s parking police.
But even Mr. Chambers, the Army
Minister, was moved to anguish by the
untidiness of some troops in old uniforms
who have been seen round Sydney during
the Christmas holidays. Some of them
certainly looked like members of the
Nicaraguan A.S.C. after a long campaign
in mangrove country.
Mr. Chambers, however, was unable to
say which troops shocked him, as he
had to admit (according to the daily
press) that he did not know the color-
patches of his own army!
It doesn’t matter very much whether
the local part of the Interim Army re-
enlists or not, except that it is necessary
to have somebody to keep the spiders out
of barracks. There is no modern train-
ing, no keenness among the rank and
file, except in some technical units. It
takes virtually the whole local army to
keep its barracks and establishment clean
and to do the clerical work of the service.
The Calls of 8.C.0.F.
The one acknowledged necessity is to
keep up 8.C.0.F., now almost entirely
the concern of the Commonwealth.
On the last report the Australian part
of 8.C.0.F. totalled 10,500-odd, there
were under 200 troops in New Guinea
and about 300 to 350 are abroad on
special commissions. How this strength
is to be maintained on the existing scale
of enlistments even an astrologer could
not divine.
At present the Australian Army has no
modern weapons of post-war vintage.
There are not enough modern aircraft by
1947 standards to fill a squadron of any
arm. There is no modern cruiser, nor
anything in the small-ship class on active
commission which is not war-worn, under-
manned and overworked.
All the initiative for rocket and other
projectile work is apparently to be
basically British, Australia providing the
ranges and regulations and a very limited
fund (£24,000,000 over six years). It was
announced recently that 200 British
scientists and technicians were coming to
Australia and that about 60 Australians
were going to England to study atomic
matters.
The Militia Scheme
The militia situation has yet to be
clarified. The scheme, which calls for the
enlistment of 60,000 men for a basic 14
days’ camp and 28 days’ training, is sup-
posed to operate in June, but so far no
recruiting plans seem to have been com-
pleted. The central idea seems to be
the old, drab one of take it or leave it,
and the kind of units which, in the past,
attracted recruits are unlikely to be, en-
couraged.
These include the Scots regiments,
which should be revived. They were
strong in every mainland State, proud of
their traditions and eager in their train-
ing.
As a sample the Queensland 61st
Highlanders (Camerons), whose friends
subscribed something like £5OOO to pro-
vide them with the Scottish items of their
outfit (still stored and available), offered
to enlist in a body as a unit when World
War II broke out. They were told it was
the duty of militiamen to stay at home
and defend their native soil.
The battalion withered at once, most
of its personnel rushing the recruiting
offices to join the Second A.I.F.
Fresh militia enlistments had no sooner
brought the 61st to strength again when
“ Lei's go to the pictures , Joan —the sea always makes me squalmish."
its ranks were once more emptied through
A.I.F. enlistments.
A third creation of the battalion at
strength was completed just in time to
do splendid work at Milne Bay.
Japs for the Gallows.
“Ek Dum”: The long roll of Japanese
torturers who are being called to account
has been added to. The United States
Army Court at Tokyo has sentenced six
Japanese guards to death for their part
in the murders of 50 Australians at Camp
48, at Naoetsu, a suburb of Tokyo, in
the winter of 1943-44.
These brutes, known to prisoners as
“Gummy,” “Fishface,” “Hoppy,” “Boof-
head,” “Horsey” and “Whisky,” were
guilty of the usual unspeakable and in-
human behawior towards p.-0.-w., and
their fate excited no sympathy.
Meanwhile an Australian Court at
Hongkong is trying Admiral Tamara
Susumu and 16 of his officers and guards,
including Matsukawa Chuzo (“Heavy
Harry”), Tajima Tanaka (“Hateful
Harry”) and Shigetada Otsuki (nick-
named “Gordon Coventry,” after the Mel-
bourne footballer famous for his
kicking powers), for crimes against Aus-
tralian p.-0.-w. on Hainan Island between
1942 and 1945.
In this camp 81 out of 126 Australians
died. ,
The evidence is voluminous, conclu-
sive and horrible. The trial was not near
its end when this was written.
The Manchurian War.
“Ek Dum”: The history of the fighting
in Manchuria since 1945 has many les-
sons to teach. Some concern Soviet good
faith, if such an expression may be used
in such a connection. Others are military
lessons for defenders of such countries as
Australia, which are widespread with
sprawling railway systems and isolated
big cities. ’
Manchuria is almost exactly the size
of the Northern Territory. It has nearly
six times the population of the Common-
wealth, but its cities are considerably
smaller Mukden (865,000), Harbin
(517.000) Changchun (415,000), Antung
(220.000) Yingchow (165,000) and Kirin
(129.000) It has 7380 miles of railway
a spider-web, and this, in view of
the state of the “roads,” serves to tie
Manchuria industrially into a single piece.
When Russia entered the Far East war
and carried out its lightning campaign of
“conquest” against the Japanese, who had
already collapsed, its Government, the
day before the actual capitulation or
Hirohito’s Government (August 14, 1945),
signed a treaty of friendship and alliance
with the Chinese Government. One of
the provisions was that the U.S.S.R. con-
firmed and agreed to respect China’s full
sovereignty over Manchuria. -
After that the Russian Army waited
only long enough to strip Manchuria
bare and remove the large Jap garrisons
—said previously in Moscow to number
750,000 —which have never since been
seen. Then it said the Chinese could take
over. Any protest that the materials and
industrial plants and fuel, valued by some
authorities at tens of millions sterling,
which M. Stalin’s locusts had removed
was part of the Allied reparations pool
was met by a solemn assurance from
Moscow that it was really part of the
lawful booty of the glorious Red Army,
gained in four days of unprecedented
fighting in which the flower of the
Japanese might had been struck down.
The Chinese Nationalists found that
the Red Army had left behind it in all
strategic positions a Communist army,
trained and somehow armed to resist
every yard of Chiang’s advance.
The Communist Army
This Communist force, it seemed, was
a glorious resistance army. In pursuance
of its patriotic duty of slaughtering mil-
lions of Japanese while the Americans
and Australians were loafing on their
atolls, it had acquired mountains of
weapons and ammunition, upon much of
which the perfidious Japanese had ap-
parently placed the official brands of the
U.S.S.R. and that section of lend-lease
which supplied war material to Russia in
Europe.
Pictures of Chinese Communist officers
in Red Army uniforms were pronounced
to be base inventions of the blood-drunk
thugs of the capitalist press.
Unfortunately for the rebels of Man-
churia, Chiang’s Chinese were all too well
equipped with American weapons at this
juncture, and even with a few aircraft —
though later they had none. Somebody
seems to have felt that it would be well
to let matters settle down a little until
the Americans were out of the way and
the forces of the U.S.S.R. safely en-
trenched in Northern Korea and in a
position to operate Dairen and other
areas in a completely illegal manner.
In February, 1946, therefore, the Com-
munist command came to an arrangement
with Chiang Kai-shek. It was agreed that
there should be a united army, reduced
within a year to 100 divisions, of which
18 were to be Communist, and to 60
divisions by June, 1947.
The New War
But by April, 1946, hostilities were in
full swing again, the absent-minded Com-
munists having forgotten the peace.
Events had moved swiftly in the previous
month. General Chao Kungwu had
moved into Mukden from the south with
the 52nd Army, with the new First and
Sixth Armies hard on his heels to hold
back the Communist tide.
The First Army was detailed to drive
north from Mukden and secure the line
through Tiehling, Ssupingkai to Chang-
chun and the Sungari River crossing on
the way to Harbin, which was at that
time operating as normally as Man-
churian railways usually operate. The
Sixth Army was given the task of clear-
ing the line which runs south into the
Antung Peninsula, to Dairen and to An-
tung, on the Korean border.
It was quite obvious that the Com-
munists had no intention of anywhere
conducting a frontal war until Ssuping-
kai was reached during their retreat.
There, at the end of a long length of
torn-up railway and road, with the
Nationalist communication lines stretched
out more than 100 miles beyond Muk-
den, they settled down to defend a ruined
town against General Tu. The Sixth
Army, under General Liao, encountered
very much the same kind of difficulties,
though it did not up against the
same sort of established front.
Communist Tactics
In the fighting for the next three
months the only thing which was defeated
decisively was the Manchurian railway
system, which was completely out of
gear.
On the 200 miles of rail between Muk-
den and Changchun thefe are about 40
bridges, or one to about every five miles.
These as well as the railway lines them-
selves were the objectives of Communist
raiders. Pillboxes and bridgehead peri-
meter defences were of little use and
patrols virtually helpless.
In April, 1946, as many as 14,000
Chinese who had been flown in to hold
Changchun were isolated and virtually
wiped out by about 30,000 Communists,
while the Nationalist First Army from
the south and the Sixth Army moved into
the east of the city and dealt with
the Communists entrenched at Ssupingkai.
The Communists attempted to take on
each of these two forces in turn, being
reinforced by their Eighth Route Army
and other troops fresh from the victory
at Changchun.
About this time the access of Mitchell
bombers and Psls and some old Jap
armor and excellently-handled artillery
turned the fortune of war to the favor
of the Nationalist troops, and about May
20 the Communists began to withdraw.
Casualties were heavy on both sides.
On to the Sungari
The Communists showed they were
no mere guerrillas but a highly-trained
force. Their destruction of the railway
line and bridges as they went was
methodical. Ten or a dozen big bridges
were wiped out to the last girder apd
miles of line ripped up completely.
Nevertheless, General Tu kept up the
pressure and recaptured Changchun.
Then a race began for the Sungari
river bridge. The Nationalists got there
in time to save it, but, after they had
acquired a bridgehead, Communist com-
mandos blew up three spans on the eve
of the June, 1946, armistice, which came
about obviously because it was certain
that the Nationalists would drive on to
Harbin or beyond if something were not
done. Then there was a lull for three
months, after which new operations by
the Sixth and Fifty-second Nationalist
armies under General Tu resulted in the
fall of Antung on the Korean-Chinese
border.
In the north the Nationalists were
forced to withdraw from the Sungari
bridgehead by reinforced and rearmed
Communists.
Twelve months after the March, 1946,
campaign opened the Nationalists held
about 20-25 per cent, of the area of
Manchuria, their northernmost limit
being north-west of Kirin, their broadest
east-west limit being a bit west of Tung-
liao and a little east of Hailung opposite.
No railway was operating on a double-
line basis.
Help for Moscow’s Policies
Since that time the position has be-
come much worse. It is doubtful whether
Nationalist China can be said to control
any part of Manchuria. Cities it holds
are menaced almost daily, Mukden in-
cluded. ' Communist commandos have
infiltrated the whole Nationalist-held
area.
Latterly the Communist forces seem
to have had a remarkable access of
strength which could only have come
from Father (Stalin) Christmas, since they
have no resources of their own.
The expressed determination of Mos-
cow to force a Japanese peace treaty, its
threats and the general atmosphere bode
ill for the Chinese Nationalists unless
they get help from outside.
The gallant, overcrowded, half-starving,
poorly-armed Chinese Government forces,
however, show no sign of giving way.
China’s official losses in the war or wars
which it has been fighting against all-
comers since 1931 have been put down
officially to the end of 1946 as 1,344,433
dead, 1,751,433 wounded and 155,248
missing.
No wonder the Soviet Union has little
stomach for open battle with Chiang’s
armies until a Russo-Chinese war be-
comes inevitable.


Gordons
Gin
TANWIRAY GORDON & Bfi. LTB.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
LEA
PERRINS
SAUCE
THE SAUCE
WITH A
SECRET
o mi
: h a*c
UAXPERRI®
SAUCE
LE Ai pgf
UIL
No. 25 of Series
Mirror. ..
i
A LOOKING GLASS prevents a chemical reaction
taking place. The first mirrors were just pieces
of polished metal. They soon went dull because
the oxygen in the air combined with the metal and
tarnished it by forming oxides. Modern mirrors,
like those of old, owe their reflecting power to bright
metal, but the glass protects it from the attacks of
oxygen. Silver, the metal generally used, is de-
posited on to the glass from a solution of a silver.
compound to which Rochelle salt or formaldehyde
has been added. The back of the mirror is pro-
tected by thin layers of nickel and copper, which
are coated on to the silver by an electroplating
process and by a final coat of paint or varnish. The
British chemical industry supplies the mirror manu-
facturer with his silver salts, Rochelle
salt, and formaldehyde as well as many
of the substances used in glass making,
electroplating and paint making.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ICI
Sound Investment—Savings Certificates
IL-39-16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
Conditions at Randwick on Satur-
day were just about perfect for rac-
ing; the sort of conditions, in fact,
that the handicapper has in mind
when he frames the weights. And one
didn’t have to look far beyond his
opinion to pick winners. In the first
six of seven races numbers 1,2, 3
and 4 in the racebook provided 15
of the 18 place-getters, including the
six winners. Of those six winners
five were outright favorites and the
other an equal favorite. It’s many a
year since punters have had things
so much their way at Headquarters.
The most notable win was New-
borough’s in the Juvenile for colts
• and geldings. Munro had him nicely
placed approaching the turn and
could have driven a coach-and-four
through the rails-opening which pre-
sented as others swung wide enter-
ing the straight. Newborough dashed
through and ran out an effortless
winner from Crosby and Brighton.
Without troubling the winner,
Crosby finished far better than any-
thing else in it, and also sported the
loudest set of colors seen here since
Bing himself had a few racing locally.
Registered by Mr. and Mrs. J. A.
Shaw, the colors are dark blue with
white stars and red-and-white striped
sleeves.
Unbeaten now at three starts, New-
borough looks one right out of the
box. A son of Emborough, he is of
impressive appearance. A bay with
a prominent white blaze, he is very
short in the trunk in proportion to
his considerable height; obviously
built to carry weight, which he did
on Saturday, lumping 9.5. Munro
replaced F. Walker in the saddle to
reduce the lead-bags. Riding in ex-
cellent form, Munro also won the
Nursery for fillies on Wattle, a
daughter of Brueghel. She was too
good for Sheba and So Sweet, who
was anchored under 9.7.
The Payten stable hasn’t been
having its usual success this season,
but made amends with a nice treble
on Saturday, starting with Keewatin
(W. Briscoe) downing Darius and
Boycott in the mile Three-year-old,
then Steady (A. Mulley) in the Novice
(12f.) and Crusader (A. Mulley) in
the January Handicap (also 12L).
Crusader knocked out the journey in
Steady took 2.36£.
The Novice produced as fine a
finish as one could wish to see, no
fewer than five horses hitting the line
in a bunch. When the camera sorted
them out it was Steady, a head to
Cambridgeshire, half-head to High
Ideals, then Silver Buzz and Lady
Grace. The January Handicap, too,
provided a close go, Crusader winning
by only a head from Piccolo. Skip
Bomber (third) looked as if he’s had
enough racing for the present. He
deserves a spell, having scored two
wins, a second and a third from four
starts for his new owners and trainer.
In the six-furlongs Sefton Handicap
Star Vite disputed the lead nearly
all the way with the outsider Critique
and at the finish just lacked the neces-
sary to withstand a strong challenge
by favorite Gay Monarch (W. Cook),
who won by a length, with Earl
Pentheus third; time smart at 1.11.
Critique beat all but the place-getters
and is worth remembering for some-
thing easier.
The mile Minto Handicap went to
the Genetout gelding Cevantes (A.
Ward), carrying Columnist’s colors.
Cevantes had a bleeding attack in a
recent race and was more or less
on trial on Saturday, the A.J.C.
having declared war on bleeders,
claiming quite rightly that in falling
back suddenly during a race they
constitute a danger to other runners.
* * * *
Though not included in the official
list of good causes to benefit by
Saturday’s charity meeting at Moonee
Valley, punters had a great day. Of
eight races the longest-priced winner
was Windbag’s Last, third in the bet-
ting at 11 to 2 for the Relief Handi-
cap, in which he defeated Ulterior,
Gay Megsie and other three-year-olds.
Bookies couldn’t quite see where the
relief came in.
Returning to scale after very easily
winning the 13-furlongs Hospice
Handicap, for which he was second
favorite at threes, O. R. Porter’s
Black Law (S. Henry) was cheered
to the skies —very different the pre-
vious week, when a near-riot followed
his 15-to-l success in the Bagot
Handicap. Black Law always looked
the winner of the Hospice, running
along comfortably behind the pace-
maker Friotis at a bare canter in
the early stages and taking charge
two furlongs from home to down
Mokan by two and a half lengths,
with favorite Real Guy third. With
9.1 Black Law carried 151 b. more
than he had at Flemington, but
seemed untroubled by the rise.
Law List started an even-money
favorite for the six-furlongs Sisters’
Handicap, but punters were asking
too much of the much improved and
wonderfully consistent son of Law
Maker. He appeared to have,
lightened off considerably; little won-j
der in view of the quantity and
quality of his recent racing. More-
over, he was conceding weight to
the rest of the field. He did well
to finish third, making his recent
record four wins, two seconds and
a third from seven consecutive starts
in handicap events.
Winner of the sprint, and giving
a first-class performance, Badger’s
mount Flemish js a three-year-old
Brueghel colt. Receiving weight only
from Law List, Flemish commenced
slowly but made up a lot of ground
to gain a handy position within the
first couple of furlongs; he finished
far too well for the Dhoti four-year-
old Mahram, and cut out the six
furlongs less 20yds. in 1.12, equalling
the course record.
Many owners and trainers of two-
year-olds are beginning to think that
something will have to be done about
trainer F. W. Hoysted. He took
his eighth juvenile event of the season
when Gay Saint (H. Badger) defeated
Delhi and Star of Gold in the first
division of the Alfred Handicap. Gay
Saint, a brown colt by St. Magnus
from Gay Memories, and thus a half-
brother to the speedy Gay Queen,
was equal favorite with Delhi, lumped
9st. and clocked I.l| for the five
furlongs. Nauplia (J. Purtell), a son
of the Hyperion horse Helios, took
half a second longer to down San
Christabel and Rembrandt in the
second division.
With Law List beaten, it was left
to Law Case (W. Williamson) to
further the recently excellent record
of the Law Maker breed by down-
ing Standard Time and William Tell
in the first Benevolent Highweight.
Westralian galloper Royal Title (F.
King) accounted for Lunar Lynx and
Lord Baden in the second division.
On the Cimbrian gelding Return,
W. Smart stole the Benefit Hurdle
when he streaked away to a big lead
half a mile from the finish ; he still
had a comfortable advantage over
Bell Tower and Ferguson at the post.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Two-year-old: Crosby, 1; Wattle,
2; Sheba, 3. Parramatta Mixed
Stakes: Critique, 1; Waricia, 2;
Lady Bevron, 3. Granville Mixed
Stakes: Mine Host, 1; Darius, 2;
Bluesaic, 3. Carlingford Mixed
Stakes: Frontal Attack, 1; Kureebi,
2; Casanova, 3. Lord Mayor’s Cup:
Piccolo, 1; Mentone, 2; Laudus, 3.
Flying: Valiant Crown, 1; Lackaboy,
2; Strathdarr, 3. Welter: Tamasha,
1; Parallel, 2; Euryalus, 3.
* * * ♦
One wicket bagged for N.S.W.
against S.A. at Sydney Cricket
Ground would have been added by
Mr. Jingle to his best feats: Toshack.
tossed one down. Fair bail. Niehuus
...strange name.. .like Toshack’s...
hearty stroke.. .whacked it back. Hit
Toshack’s boot. Bounced off.
Bumped wicket. Bails down. James
doing Bill Brown act...yard out of
crease. Everybody dumbfounded.
Barnes regained consciousness...
yelled “Owzat?” Remarkable run-
out. Very.
With Niehuus and Ridings also
run out, S.A. had lost 6 for 222,
against N.S.W.’s 374, for the first
two days’ play.
For the Indian tourers against
Tassy, Rangachari brought off a
bowling feat also in the Jingle class:
Wicket... lunch adjournment. Every-
body fed... start again. Two more
wickets.. .hat trick. Noble bowling.
Very.
Rangachari bagging three more as
well, Tassy was all out for 142. India
had 189 on the board with only
two wickets down; Amarnath con-
tributing a lively 95 not out.
With three Tests played (India two
down and one drawn), Bradman, as
usual, is well ahead in batting. Aus-
tralia, for the three matches, has
scored 1138 for 32 wickets, av. 35.56;
India 821 for 56 wickets, av. 14.66.
Bradman, 457, av. 152.33; Morris,
202, av. 67.33 ; Hassett, 134, av.
44.66; Miller, 104, av. 34.66 897
runs, av. 74.83. Ten others on the
Australian side have made 226, av.
10.27. Toshack heads the bowlers
with 11 wickets, av. 2.8; W. Johnston,
14, av. 10.7; lan Johnson, 12, av.
11.9. Mankad heads the Indian batting
(146, av. 24.3), Amarnath the bowling
(12, av. 20.4).
“Rex”: A memorial in London for
Empire cricketers who lost their lives
in World War II is to take the form
of museum, picture-gallery, library
and reading room, with contributions
of timber from all parts of the Em-
pire being sought for it. England
lost two of her best —Fames and
Verity. Australia’s losses included
Ross Gregory (Vic.) and the South
Australians Ken Ridings (brother of
the present skipper), Charlie Walker
and Ross Moyle.
Struih! I slept in. What time does the fight start?”
For N.S.W. v. Queensland at Syd-
ney Cricket Ground Des Moroney
played another good innings, hitting
up 81. A right-hander much on the
Bradman pattern, Moroney has
scored 472, av. 53.44, in first-class
matches this season, including 96 v.
India and 95 v. S. Aus. Oddly, left-
hander Neil Harvey (Vic.), another
Test prospect, has exactly the same
figures as Moroney in first-class
matches.
* * * *
France downed the Wallabies,
13-6, breaking the Australians’ record
of not having their line crossed in
an international match. The Wal-
labies fielded the same team that beat
England 11-0. If French form is at
all consistent the proposed tour of
Australia and N.Z. by a French team
should be bright French teams
usually play a fast, open game.
London “Times’s” football scribe
summed up on the downing of Aus-
tralia by Wales: “The lack of a
Tamplin cost Australia their first de-
feat in an international match.”
Tamplin brought off “two magnifi-
cent place-kicks.” On the other
hand, Piper missed a sitter from 30
yards out in front of the posts and
soon after another from 25 yards
at a bit of an angle. Otherwise
Piper was “his usual cool and
polished self.” But, though merely
moderately good kicking might have
decided it the other way, the “Times”
man reckoned that Welsh captain
Tanner (on the injured list) would
have made the Welshmen even more
decisive winners.
* * % *
Probably the best Olympic prospect
we have in any department, young
Victorian swimmer John Marshall has
been skittling the records in Mel-
bourne. In the State championships
he knocked 1.8 seconds off the Vic-
torian record for 110yds. freestyle,
and has .since reduced the time by
a further 6-10ths of a second to
62sec. He also gave his own 880yds.
record a pasting in winning the
event by 70yds.
* * * *
In Rockport (U.S.A.) they have a
statue to a sea captain honored
there as an important inventor. They
reckon that 100 years back he in-
vented the hole in the doughnut.
Maroubra, Sydney, has ground for
emulating Rockport, with a statue
in honor of whoever invented the
surf-beach “march-past.” Maroubra
has a monopoly of the performance,
missing out only once in over 40
starts; a record likely to outlast even
a statue.
* * * *
The past several weeks of peace on
the stoush front were broken, in a
fashion, at Melbourne Stadium,
when Filipino Little Paras (Bst.)
failed to rise from the floor in the
seventh round and was declared loser
to Frankie Flannery (8.13£). Maybe
pure habit got the better of Little
Paras; it was his fourth time down.
What the crowd said was a lot more
ferocious than the fight.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: Old Jimmie strolled
into the store and asked for a pint of
linseed oil. The storekeeper was sorry ;
supplies of seed weren’t coming regularly
from India. Well, Jimmie could manage
without the oil, but he’d have a couple
o’ pounds o’ staples. No staples for
months. Well, was there such a
thing as a mouse-trap in the store? Un-
fortunately there was not, and, as the
papers say, the conference ended in
failure and the delegates departed in
gloomy disappointment. Outside again,
Jimmie gazed a while into the window
which may or may not have been spruced
up a bit for the Christmas before last;
then his face lit up and he dashed back
into the shop. “Give us a bob’s-worth o’
dead blowflies,” he demanded. “I know
y’ got plenty o’ them !”
* * * *
“Naturala”: The argument arose in
camp; how many legs has the centipede?
Guesses varied from 100 to 20. Ashamed
of my ignorance I hunted under likely
rocks and rotten logs, finally turning up
a five-inch specimen. Pinned down with
a long bag-needle the “centi” took the
count—2l legs on each side. It’s odd how
everyone has a down on the centipede,
killing on sight. Yet, with a diet wholly
of insects, particularly those in the larval
stage, such as wire-worms and caterpil-
lars, it helps to keep in check man’s most
intense rivals on this planet.
* * * *
“Aperist”a»That assertion by “D’stung”
(B. 10/12/’47) that bees are attracted by
brine has me interested. Certainly they
are attracted by near-nude, brine-soaked
human bodies emerging from the surf ;
this is recognised in W.A., where the
keeping of bees near any bathing resort
is prohibited.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Any camp-site used by
Binghi is worth looking over. Around this
S.A. area such spots are littered with a
multitude of stone-flakes that are the
shavings of the palaeolithic workshop.
Most of the flakes, of white, pink or
yellow quartzite, of the grey chalce-
donised rock of the tablelands, or of im-
ported chert, have never been worked,
but here and there one finds a specimen
that has been tapped into shape to serve
as a knife or scraper. Heavier flakes have
been given a circular or semi-circular
cutting edge for use as adzes with which
to rough-out a boomerang. More occa-
sionally there are small flakes fashioned
into boring tools, and large flakes, or
even cores, have been crudely worked into
choppers. But very rarely one finds what
the Lake Eyre tribes called a pirrie. This
tool has a rounded back end, two long,
straight sides that meet as a needle-point,
and a very shallow triangular section that
is the result of many hours of precision
chipping. Mounted with resin on the end
of a stick, the pirrie was used as a graver
for etching the designs on the surface of
a boomerang or other wooden weapon.
The little tool is so delicately made and
nicely finished that the missus covets any
good specimen, which, she declares,
would make a perfect dress ornament.
The puzzle is: why, when most of his
stone implements were roughly chipped
to serve the immediate purposes, did
Black Brother take such endless pains
over the pirrie ? By its very delicacy a
dozen must have been broken in the mak-
ing before a perfect specimen was made.
My guess is this: all or design
was probably an instrument of magic,
originally, among primitive peoples. The
pirrie, used in making a design, had
magical associations, and these would ex-
plain the care used in its fashioning.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Mention of the sur-
vivors from the Swedish barque Alphild
reaching Maatsuyker and the rest of the
crew starving back at the wreck (B.
19/11/ ’47) recalls that—except for the
finding of the dead captain—nothing was
heard of these shellbacks until just prior
to the war. Then, 30 years after the
disaster, a bushfire went through the wet,
wind-swept Port Davey bush and several
skeletons were uncovered, including that
of the cabin-boy, who was identified by
his club-foot. Incidentally, regarding the
captain —26 - year - old Sven Bengtssen,
who came ashore in a weak condition suf-
fering from shock —it was revealed at the
inquest in Hobart that had the steamer
Koonokarra gone direct from Maatsuy-
ker Island lighthouse to Port Davey, 40
miles on, instead of returning to Hobart
first, he would probably have been saved.
On arrival the rescue vessel dropped
anchor at Bond Bay within cooee of his
crude camp. It is assumed that on hear-
ing the vessel’s whistle he dropped dead,
A sad fate —he was to have left the
barque in Hobart, returned to Sweden,
married and taken command of an
Atlantic liner.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Not only is the wedge-
tailed eagle hard to hit, but even when
hit it can carry, unless winged, more lead
than possibly any other of the avian kind.
So the tormented pastoralist resorts to
poison. The stiffener goes out in late
afternoon, and with his gun knocks over
some smallish game, feathered or furred
being of no importance. Small pockets
are then nicked in the skin and knife-
points of strychnine inserted. Laid out
in the cool of the evening such a carcass
will be still fresh enough in the morning
“Trust me to strike the drought."
to please the palate of the wedgie. An
additional lure is to burn off the grass for
a space around, experience having taught
the wedgie that on ground over which
fire has run small titbits such as mice and
lizards are likely to be picked up.
“Horseless Horseman”: To get wedge-
tails, place unpegged and set rabbit-traps
on top of the ground about a dead sheep.
Then, as the carrion-eaters land near by
and stride up to the prey —when walking
they cannot see where they are placing
their feet —they almost always put a
talon in a trap. Hooked thus, by one
foot, the birds are off balance and can-
not take off, though they can move a
hundred yards or so away to let the next
scavenger land. Once around a dead
kangaroo we got 26 eagles this way in
an afternoon. Like the crow, the big
eagles are able to spot a rifle up to
quarter of a mile away.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The Torres Strait islanders
have a more elaborate judiciary system
than the abos of . the Centre (B.
10/12/’47), though their function is also
largely matrimonial. A feature of the
Strait tribunals is the dusky John Hops,
who give details of the peccadilloes under
discussion, apparently as eye-witnesses,
which prompts the stranger’s query as to
why they did not arrest the guilty one
in flagrante delicto, since such carry-
ings-on are crimes under Binghi’s social
codes. Their smoothly-flowing narrative,
however, is deduced from signs expertly
observed. Identity of the erring ones is
beyond question, because the conforma-
tion of each individual’s foot in a village
of several hundred is known to his fellow-
inhabitants.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Bill the Goose and
Rabbit Jenkins were making for Bumper-
crop with a month-old thirst and very
little prospect of reaching the pub in
their old runabout, which refused duty
so often, when they passed an old
swaggie. His cheery optimism changed to
surly contempt as they chugged by. He
couldn’t catch their apologies—they were
afraid to stop, because while his mate
drove The Goose had to hold down the
throttle and keep a strain on the wire
leading to the choke ; so when he passed
them, seated beside the road, smoking,
he smiled maliciously. “Gripes, I’m
lucky,” he chuckled, and kept walking.
Five minutes later they again over-
took him, but he passed them again
on the next bend, with the same
remark. They had 10 miles to go and an
hour to dark when he passed them for
the fourth time. The Goose got in first.
“Look ’ere, mate,” he said. “If y’re that
flamin’ lucky y’ better bop in an’ come
with us.” They made the pub without
further mishap, arriving in time to get
full before the beer ran out. Late that
night a well-shot swaggie gravely rejected
The Goose’s request to hang around the
camp as a lucky mascot for his tucker
“an’ a pussentage.” “It wouldn’t be no
good, mate,” he explained. “Me luck
might give out if I took on a steady job,
like.”
* * * *
“Bo”: A black snake in the bracken
at the timbergetters’ camp had got Little
Joe just above the ankle. Dutchy
Larsen whipped on a tourniquet above the
puncture, but boggled at Joe’s stoical
request to hack out the flesh around it
with a penknife. Long Bob was made
of tougher fibre. Running a fine file
over the small blade he wiped it on the
seat of his greasy strides and reached for
Joe’s pin. “Choost look at t’at,” ex-
claimed Dutchy in disgust. “By yimminy,
Bob, you pokes it in Joe's leg an’ he
dies mit blood-poisonin’, nein?” Bob
straightened up, stretched out his up-
turned left palm, shot a liberal lubrication
of saliva on it, stropped the blade on it
for half a minute, pulled out a fistful of
shirt and wiped the blade on it. Then, as
he bent again, he looked up at Dutchy
“Now, don’t tell me that ain’t sterilised
it enough,” he barked, and proceeded
with the operation.
* * * *
“Flip”: Bombina’s Council likes to
keep a daily check on things, spending
the late afternoon soaking up the sun-
shine, keeping the awning posts of Alf
Barnett’s grocery store vertical, and occa-
sionally thinking of an improvement for
the town. As Mayor, Alf, when the
meeting seems to lag, keeps it going by
talking of his experiments with mush-
rooms. An eagle-eyed member drew
the meeting’s attention to a crack which
had appeared overnight in the cement of
the roadway straight out from Alf’s,
seeming to widen as they looked at it.
It was set down for investigation next day,
and the meeting broke up, Alf astound-
ing them all by not adjourning to the
Royal for refreshments. Instead, he
trotted back into his shop, down into the
cellar, and was still working at midnight
shifting mushrooms back from the “wing”
he’d built out under the street and
plugging the opening to it from his cellar
with stones and mortar. Next day
Council workmen had the road up and
announced that they had “found a cave.”
Alf was completely amazed. One of
the digging party went below and
declared that “it don’t lead nowhere ;
just a hole, but there’s a couple of flamin’
mushrooms growin’ in it.” Later, con-
vinced that it was so, Alf collared the
mushrooms as “very rare specimens,”
agreed with the other councillors that
the cavern was some legacy from the old
bushranging days of the town, and then
adjourned to the Royal to talk of Star-
light and his boys.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Lurking behind bark, under
rocks and on rafters one finds in these
parts three or four inches of purple-grey
or purple-brown gecko. This velvety little
chap, commonest of all lizards, was known
to South Aus. blacks as mun-ka, to eastern
tribes as dtella, to naturalists as Peropus
variegatus and to bushmen as “wood
adder.” Chiefly remarkable for his vocal
powers, a conversational clicking and a
squeak of fear or protest, Peropus is soft-
bodied, scaleless and absolutely defence-
less, unless you count the common trick
of discarding the tail as a red-herring.
It seems rather a puzzle to find such an
unprotected animal in large numbers and
obviously prospering. Peropus is not fast
but he can climb, assisted by leaf-like
toes soled with tiny plates that fit closely
to a smooth surface, turning the toes
into suction-cups. This ability to
walk on the ceiling or up a window-pane
must be of great assistance not only in
escaping enemies but also in
He is fond* among other small game, of
flies, of which there is a never-failing
supply. Peropus seems to favor only
one egg, but it is relatively enormous as
eggs go, containing such an amount of
yolk that the emerging infant is well
developed and able to look out for him-
self. The carefully-hidden eggs hatch,
too, in autumn, when most of the larger
reptilian cannibals are in bed.
* * * *
“Zake”: I seek the reason why, though
horses and their riders are often struck
by lightning—there was a tragedy on New
Year’s Day at Cecil Park (N.S.W.) —
bullocks seem to possess immunity from
the blue flash. In the Scone (N.S.W.)
district some years ago a team of horses
was struck, yet a passing bullock-team
was untouched. Don’t tell me it’s the
horse’s shoes —unshod horses running in
paddocks with cattle and sheep have
sometimes been struck.
* * * *
“Flathead”: Enemy to the bee in
most countries, the wax-moth gain's ad-
mission to the hive with all the guile of
a confidence man. After somehow pick-
ing the weakest hive in the apiary, she
heads for it and alights on the board.
The sentry-bee on duty grabs his side-
arms and chases the Mata Hari off the
beat. The moth then'flies up, alighting
on the side of the hive above the entrance.
Really peeved now, the sentry leaves his
post and moves toward the moth, pre-
pared for stoush. This is just what the
enemy wants. She does a quick loop back
to the alighting-board, gallops past the
sentry’s deserted post and makes for the
most distant corner of the hive. There,
locating a crevice where she will be out
of sight and stinging range of the inhabi-
tants, she commences laying eggs. When
the vulnerable moth-larvae emerge they
quickly spin themselves a sting-proof
cocoon. They can then commence
eating in safety, their fodder being the
live-brood and wax of the. hive. Having
laid her eggs, the mother moth gets
down in a sprinting position again, waits
till the inmates all appear to have their
backs turned, and breaks evens getting
out,
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: When a travel-
ling hawker up the garden path
the other day our foxy became unusually
perturbed. Even though I hunted Toby
off he kept dashing back to scent the
fellow’s right leg from the ankle up to
the knee as though he really was on to
something new in the way of clues. I
couldn’t savee the canine’s tactics at all
until, just as T was about to discourage
the dog’s search with a boot, the fellow
said; “It’s all right. He just can’t make
out my wooden leg, 1 suppose.”
* * * •
“Dong”: On “How homing pigeons get
home” (B. 10/12/’47) I struck a highly-
technical screed which at least should let
“Pater” baffle his inquiring youngster
with science. Also favoring the idea that
the pigeon can navigate by sensing the
earth’s magnetic pull, and the speed of its
turning, this chap went out to prove it:
To test their magnetic sense I attached
small magnets to the wings of 30 birds,
and identical weights of non-magnetic metal
to the wings of others. Those with magnets
became confused when released and lost
themselves. The others all found their way
home.
But as magnetic “pull” is the same at any
latitude, he decided that some other force
must be involved, tested the lot, and
landed finally on something called
“Coriolis force,” which is created by the
spinning of the earth:
These two. forces, magnetic and rotational,
would combine to give a specific effect at
any spot on earth—an effect which would
not be felt anywhere else within a large
area. If pigeons could sense both forces
they could fly to their home territory and
recognise it by its characteristic “feel.”
He tested the second part of his theory
by taking a batch of pigeons to a place
which had the same combination of mag-
netic and “Coriolis force” as their home
town, and let them loose. They just
circled around and landed again, con-
vinced that some goat was having them
on.
GROGAN’S PLACE.
They say “Up there by Grogan’s Place,
The folk around that way;
For Grogan’s Place you can’t efface,
The name has come to stay:
A fallen fence down in the grass,
Two window-spaces black
That darkly stare on all who pass;
The house a tumbled shack.
The old fruit trees are mossed and spent
And torn and broken down
Where once a Grogan labored, b'ent
O’er soil of furrowed brown.
Around his fence the bracken grew,
The spreading saplings leaned
And like a green and hungry crew
Hung round the land he’d cleaned.
I do if Grogan died,
What evil time befell
The place he hacked from forest wide;
And no one else can tell.
Not that it matters much, maybe,
Nqw that the bracken’s back,
And forest, too, with tree on tree,
And bush where there was track.
But even if things went amiss
And Grogan missed the band,
There’s one thing fine, and it is this:
He fought to clear the land;
And if his spirit broke, or gave—
Well, that was no disgrace,
For now it lives with days once brave
Up there at Grogan’s Place.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON..


“Old-timer”: I’ve suffered all sorts
and sizes of thirsts (B. 31/12/’47), alco-
holic and otherwise, including those
which follow a bender, and it’s my be-
lief that the essential thing is to get the
saliva flowing again. Simply filling the
paunch with water won’t allay a thirst
immediately ; the moisture has to work
its way through the system, via the blood-
stream and sundry other agencies. I’ve
found on long dry stretches outback that
so long as a man could keep his palate
and throat moist — i.e., by a secretion of
saliva, promoted by chewing a bit of
stick or a wad of tobacco —he could go
a long way .without a drink. There are
many tricks to avoid thirst, such as resting
in the heat of the day, and he who is con-
tent to take small and frequent sips at
the waterbag or tea billy will get through
better than the bloke who does a parch for
several hours and then gulps down a gal-
lon or so. Next time “Betcha” gets dried
out, instead of swamping his innards with
tea let him slowly drink one cup, then
soak his head, wrists and feet in water.
After which, chewing a green twig, he
can compose himself for a night’s rest.
Hasn’t he ever noticed how tonguing
animals will, if they can, get knee-deep
into the water, standing there and not
drinking nearly as much as might have
been expected? Irrigating the system
isn’t done solely through the stomach;
cooling it down is a good way to begin.
* sH * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Wippegong” almost des-
cribed our Christmas mornings over the
pea-shelling ritual (B. 17/12/’47). The
chief difference seemed to be that his
family yarned over the leisurely business.
We didn’t because the pea-shelling
championship was, and still is, the sport-
ing event of the year. Each competitor
counts out 25 pods (for short heats, 50
for long races) and swaps with his neigh-
“Now, girls, what tune shall I play?"
bor. Mum calls “Go!” and the
race is on. There are various styles,
ranging from the “single snatch” to “hand-
ful at a time” technique. Long finger-
nails are an asset to Sis, who won the
championship the first time it was re-
sumed after the war. But last Christmas
Nutty, an incurable nail - chewer,
developed a twisting action that enabled
him to romp home by half a pod,# I have
always lost on points since the introduc-
tion of the rule that all peas fired, spilled,
squirted or shot out of the basin must
be retrieved before the competitor can
claim to have finished. The winner is
generally proclaimed while I am en-
deavoring to crawl under the dresser.
When Mum first taught her chicks to
make a rollicking game out of a mono-
tonous chore she little thought that they
would still be children enough to enjoy
it quarter o£ a century later.
*** , * ,
“Mug”: The boss split the posts and
put them on the line, then left the erec-
‘ion of the fence to Wally and Bob The
ground was granite-hard, and after a
cOuple of hand-shattering days Wally
sought the boss, who was terse when the
proposition was put to him. “You’d have
piuituotutm » f „
a top-heavy fence if you did it your way,
he said. “No, the posts have got to go in
with no more than four-foot-two stand-
!”g nbove ground.” Wally returned to the
job, and for the next couple week
the fencers stuck close to work. Four-
foot-two, Bob,” Wal reminded on several
occasions. “He’s pretty particular, so
better measure em careful. The fence
was nearly finished when word arrived
that the boss would be along the follow-
tog day to inspect. “Yair. an’ he’ll find a
good-looking job,” nodded Wally. Bet
even he’ll be satisfied. Decent of him,
though, t’ let’s know when ’e was cornin’,
wasn’t it?” “Too right,” agreed his off-
f' der - “® ut we’d better get busy and
hum up all these sawn-oft post-ends an
have things tidy.
* * ' *. - n l v . M
hfousNcs'i Norseman . Tell Wipp
§ on S (B 31/12/ 47) that though I class
as game-birds spoonbill, rail, jabiru,
* and curlew, Mallee hen, Cape Barren
g° ose > brolga and nankeen crane, I c o
80 80 a 8 eating is concerned,
Moreover, with the exception of C.B,
goose, which I shot as' a boy on Bass
Strait islands, I haven t killed any of the
foregoing fliers. Of the eight birds,
says, some are rare and all are protected,
Protected where? C.B. goose usent to
and, outback beyond the railheads,
n ° bushmen I ever struck shot for sport,
though an unwritten law allowed one to
shoot for the pot outside the breeding
season. Also spoonbill, rail, jabiru and
nankeen crane are found through New
Guinea to Burma. In New Guinea on
a small naval vessel with no refrigerator
and mostly a native crew we supple-
mented a diet of bully, rice, biscuits and
jam with fish and birds, both shot by
“shoot-boys.” We did it to get the energy
to manhandle cargo in and out of boats
and through surf, night as well as day.
Had it been “W.’s” fate to be in that
crew would he have eaten bully while
we sat down to roast spoonbill?
.* * *
Waarom : That _ distinguished
naturalist David Fleay has blown out the
notion that a humble goanna was the
mysterious “killer” which has been de-
nuding hen-roosts in Melbourne’s outer
suburbs, by pointing to the fact that the
go. is not a nocturnal feeder. It occa-
sionally takes eggs or a small chicken,
but, like the ladybird, it is a benefit to
the world and feeds mainly on rats, mice,
small rabbits and other carrion. In fact,
it and other lizards are a prime subject
for overall protection. Yet thousands
of these benefactors of man are
slaughtered annually on country roads,
often deliberately. I once asked a
motorist what he did to the gallon on a
run from Adelaide to Melbourne.
“Forty lizards,” he retorted proudly.
* * * *
“Flathead”: While still at the crawling
stage of infancy, I was once chastised for
angling with a bent pin in a goldfish bowl,
and they tell me that I cut my teeth on a
sinker. Hence, in later years, I thought
that I knew something of fishing: a recent
report in the London “Times” entitled
“Hunting the Snoek” shows that my pis-
catorial education is just beginning.
“The snoek,” declared a correspon-
dent, “is a sea-fish, pelagic, and re-
sembling the mackerel.” To catch them,
he claims, one needs 20ft. of clothes-line,
a barbless hook the size of a butcher’s,
and a piece of cloth as bait. Once the
snoek strikes, the angler hauls in quickly
until the fish is a yard or two from the
boat, “when it leaves the water and con-
“I Wonder where Bert got to? Haven't seen ’im since lunch."
tinues its course through the air.” Now
comes the cunning part of the drill, for
a snoek in full flight is apparently a very
grim type:
As the fish is about to reach him, the
man turns about, presenting his back to
the oncoming snoek, which lands eventually
under his left arm, where it is gripped as
in a vice between the man’s arm and his
body.... The hook, having no barb', then
falls clear of the fish’s mouth. In this
position the fish is powerless to harm the
man. The man then seizes a short heavy
club, deals the fish a fatal blow on the
top of the skull and throws it into the
well of the boat Twelve hundred or more
snoek are often caught by one boat in a
day’s fishing.
I take my bat off to snoek and man.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Mum was passing the killing-
tree when she stopped to stare in con-
sternation at the carcass Dad was dressing
for rations. “Gracious, haven’t we got
any broken-mouthed ewes left. Dad?”
she gasped. “Y-you’ve killed a lamb.”
“I know,” came the resigned reply.
“Worth about two quid, but what else
can a man do? Dunno what the flamin’
country’s cornin’ to.” He wiped down
the carcass carefully. “Y’ better get a
bit o’ fruit sent out too, Mum, an’ some
flash breakfast fixin’s, like —er —bacon,
an’ steak an” things.” “All right, Dad,”
she murmured uncertainly, “but it
seems a shocking waste of money. Those
things cost so much, and we’ll never save
enough for the new sheds if we spend
money on what we can do without.”
“Yair, but y’ know the trouble we had
last time, Mum,” reminded Dad. “Any-
way, it’ll only be for a fortnight. Should
have the fencin’ finished by that time
with three of us on it. No, it ain’t only
the twenty-five-bob a day they sting y’,”
he went on sadly; “but cripes, I wish
these forty-hour-a-week blokes’d eat the
sort o’ tucker like us ordin’ry cockies are
used to.”
* * * *
“Unleyan”: The advent of swarms of
grasshoppers into Adelaide about Christ-
mas-time filled the citizens with wonder
and awe, and there were tales of tennis
lawns, bowling greens and similar
growths eaten bare. Crowds making for
sporting fixtures at the week-end had to
“fight their way through swarms.” A
newspaper reporter noted that at the
zoo “monkeys ate them with gusto,” but
so far I’ve not heard of any Adelaidean
adopting the Bible precedent of a diet of
“locusts and honey,” though Adelaide is
reported to be more religious than any
other Australian city.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”; We were heading for Hay
(N.S.W.) across the Old Man plain and a
black nor’-easter was right in our teeth.
If you’ve ever tried to carry a heavy swag
in a headwind on a treeless plain you’ll
know what we were up against; we
rapidly. approached Hay at about H
m.p.h. At midday, still being in sight
of the spot we’d left that morning, and
resting under the shade of our hats. Mat
remarked “Hey, why don’t we try an’
tack across this ruddy plain?” “Tack?”
“Yair, tack. Them yachts do it, sailin’
against a headwind. Catch the wind in
their sails and go sideways an’ slightly
forward, then veer an’ go the other way.”
We tried it, but finished up further from
Hay than ever. Then a cove came along
in a utility truck and we got a lift back
to Balranald. The publican at the Sham-
rock was astonished, exclaiming “Thought
you blokes went t’ Hay?” “Well,” Mat
said, cuddling a pot enthusiastically with
his right mitt, “we shoved off all right,
with staysails an’ a flyin’ spinnaker, but
we was carryin’ too much ballast an’ had
t’ scud back under bare poles,” The publi-
can was more astonished. “Didn’t know
y’ was sailors,” he announced. “We ain’t,
mate, we ain’t,” Mat replied sadly,
whereat the publican was more astonished
than ever.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Strange how almost all wild
birds love cheese, a food they would
never get in the natural course of events.
In the bush, all my cheese scraps were
scattered around my tent, and my
feathered visitors were in scores. Even
the noisy minahs were quietened by the
titbits and squarked and scolded less
often. Sometimes the cheese supply ran
out, and then the magpies and butcher-
birds, the most intelligent of fowl, would
watch rhy every movement, urging me
to put the cheese back on again. And
the little yellow-rumped tits love sugar.
Often I’ve enticed them into my tent with
a thin trail of the stuff, and the tiny
thornbills have twittered and gossiped by
the hour around the small heap of sugar
on the floor, quite unmindful of me sitting
within a foot of them. If you’re friendly
with the birds you need never be lonely
. in the bush.
* * * *
“Betcha”: “Jackeroo’s” wisecrack (B.
17/12/’47) that “hobbles are good for
stopping a rogue”—a rogue, mind you —
lacks even humor for old horsemen. As
for the “length of chain around its neck,
leaving about a foot of it to drag on the
ground,” Noah tried that, and jackeroos
have been falling for it ever since. In my
green days / tried it, till I found that the
chain, drawn by the weight to falling dead
centre between the horse’s legs, was
easily straddled, allowing the animal a
gait that brought tears to the eyes of the
cove following in the dust-cloud. An-
other thing: a horse rarely swings his
head “violently from side to side” when
he’s irritated —he wags it up and down.
Only once have I met failure with a mane
bolt. A little mare, when the mood was
on her she’d take the best efforts of a
stockwhip as readily as she would charge,
fighting-mad, to meet her mounted pur-
suer. I’ve seen her knock up several good
hacks and remain unyarded. A bad ’un?
Not on your life. Soon as the mood was
over, she’d be following me again like a
pup.
* * * *
“Blime”: Dad was putting a new line
of fence straight up the granite spur out
of Dry Gully. Sciatica got him, and he
sent for Bill. It was midsummer, fiercely
hot and dry, but Bill did his best.
Each night he reported his slight progress.
“But, cripes, Bill,” fumed Dad. ‘ Ten
postholes ain’t much for a day’s work.
Can’t y’ do better ’n that?” “‘Not on
that spur I can’t,” came the reply. It s
like chippin’ bits out o’ blue metal, the
ground’s that hard.” Dad instructed, ad-
vised, protested and fretted through an-
other day, then he dragged himself to the
area of operations. “I knew it,” he bel-
lowed as soon as he came in sight of
Bill chipping mightily with the crowbar.
“Y’ ain’t workin’ it right, I tell y’, standin
on the side o’ the hole like that. Git
round t’ the top. Yair, I know it’s
awkward workin’ downhill, but you wait
a minute. There y’ are now, ain’t that
better?” he continued. “The sweat runs
straight down into the hole that way, an’
makes the sinkin’ a lot easier.”
“CAB, SIR!”
Oh, happy band of hansoms
We rode in, two by two —
Worth more than royal ransoms
Are memories of you...
So snug from wind and weather
Beneath your sheltering roofs
We heard the creak of leather,
The rhyme of wheels and hoofs.
A cab to meet a steamer —
The whistle’s booming call,
The soft steam like a streamer,
The gang-plank’s noisy fall.
White foam beneath her transom,
Yet whiter still the foam
That flecked our flying hansom,
Bearing two sweethearts home.
Or when the play is ended,
The tall commissionaire,
Whiskered and red and splendid,
Calls to the cabbies there
Names that are clear and loud in
Trained ears no sounds perturb—
With rush of hoofs, they crowd in
Beside a busy kerb.
The good steed’s swinging quarters,
The long reins in the light,
Smooth as the sweep of waters
We swayed through glorious night.
The cabbie high above you...
Ah, how the memory stabs!
Of those three words, “I love you,”
That went with hansom cabs.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


IT'S EXPERIENCE THAT COUNTS!
We are proud of our 84 YEARS OF DISTINGUISHED SERVICE
TO THE MAN ON THE LAND. These years of extensive activities
in the sale of wool; produce; fat, store or stud stock; or property —
in the purchase of station and other requirements—in the rendering of
personal services—have built up an organisation thoroughly versed in
the varied needs of the pastoralist.
Team up with A.M.L.&F. and let their experts help you with all your
problems, speedily and efficiently. Get in touch with A.M.L.&F. today!
Australian, Mercantile, Land & F
inance Coy. Ltd.
lercantile, Land &
{lnc. in England , 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
Security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27) 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Kill instantly with
CYANOGAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading
Rabbit Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and a CERTAIN
KIEEER
m
a
'•//
i/mIMW
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere
BUZACOTT - WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
’PHONE; MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
LYS
PROOF
HM-hs mtl
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Ft. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "L YSA G H T'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Grain-Feeding Cattle.
“Agric”; In the U.S.A. it is a
very expensive business, hence
high prices paid for cattle there.
Cyril Burcher, a Winchcombe
Carson man, who made a tour
of America, told fat-stock sellers
in Brisbane that it usually takes
70 to 100 days to “finish” cattle,
depending on the condition in
which they reach the feed lot
The daily gain ranges from 21b.
to 2}lh. per head. Expense is
about 75 cents (4s. 6d.) per
head, per day; if fed for 90
days a beast would cost £2O ss.
to fatten. Feeders, or stores,
would cost probably 24 cents per
lb. liveweight, so that a 10001 b.
animal liveweight would cost
about 240 dollars (£75), which,
plus outlay on feeding, made the
total cost of the animal £95 ss.
At Chicago Burcher saw a pen
of grain-fattened steers make
591 dollars (£185) per head.
Owing to the high price of grain,
and the prospects of lighter
crops, there is much speculation
in America as to the future of
feeding. The: commercial feeder
usually takes other people’s store
cattle in addition to his own, and
fattens them on a cost-plus
basis ; this is also done for some
of the meat packers, who wish to
have fats on hand to meet any
emergency.
Polled or dehorned cattle are
taken to the feed lot at the age
of 18 months to two years, and
the whole business is exception-
ally well organised. One feed
lot was carrying 13,000 cattle,
and others were handling up to
8000-head. No two men fed
exactly alike, all working on a
balanced ration scientifically pre-
pared according to the grain or
concentrates available and the
prevailing prices.
Several universities and col-
leges Burcher visited were ex-
perimenting in feeding small lots
of cattle on different grasses and
varying rations. The Fontana
Farm Co., California, which
turns off 50,000 cattle annually,
was fattening 13,000-head in
yards on 160 acres when Burcher
visited the property. One feed
trough, automatically-fed, was
half a mile long. When price-
control disappears in Australia
Burcher predicts that beef-
quality standards will rise, and
cattle finished off on a modified
grain ration will sell at a pre-
mium. In America people in
hotels and restaurants are pre-
pared to pay almost any price
to get choice, juicy, grain-pro-
duced steaks.
Stock Remedies.
“J.R.D.”: That “Drugs on the
Farm” (B. 24/12/’47) is remi-.
niscent of the good old days of
blade shears and bowyangs.
Many of the recommendations
are out of step with those of
modern vets and others whose
job it is to shed the light of
progress on the path of the be-
nighted cocky.
Stockholm tar as a protection
against flystrike would send die
Wool Board into cold shivers,
At present flies are particularly
savage and there is a high per-
centage of body strikes. A
favorite spot is under the tar-
brand, and that applies equally
to sheep branded with proprie-
tary fluids or the good old tar-
pot.
Nicotine sulphate as a drench
is not in the race with the more
modern anthelmintics, particu-
larly under present labor condi-
tions, plus its recent 400 p.c.
jump in cost. Mustering sheep
for drenching has to be kept to
an absolute minimum with the
flies about, and bluestone-nico-
tine cannot be regarded as more
than 50 p.c. effective. It is far
better to pay more for pheno-
thiazine, which is really effective
if properly administered, and cut
down drenching musters by at
least half.
The recommendation of liquid
sheep dips as general antiseptics
and for. use as lamb-marking
dressings is too sweeping alto-
gether. As an antiseptic it is
far better to keep on hand for
general use a recognised pro-
duct of the Dettol type or, better
still, a 1 chlorine disinfectant,
which is not only miles cheaper
than all the others, but much
more effective. These are avail-
able in liquid and powder form
—the latter requiring only the
addition of water before use.
Lamb-marking wounds will
heal better without a dressing,
especially a sheep-dip dressing
which, at the strength at which
it would have to be used, would
be irritant on wounds and would
delay healing. The only dress-
ing possibly required after mark-
ing would be to keep flies off
until the wounds have healed,
hence a repellant is called for.
Oil of citronella and boracic is
the best.
Liquid drenches are better
than powders in most cases, but
only if they are properly ad-
ministered. If the volume is
large much of the drench is not
swallowed, and this happens also
if the nozzle of the drenciiiug-
gun or -funnel is not inserted
far enough over the tongue.
The assertion that pills and
tabloids take several days to dis-
solve in the stomach and are
therefore not recommended is
Wide of the mark. Modern
stock medicines in tablet form
dissolve readily and, if properly
administered so that they cannot
be regurgitated, offer a more
certain means of ensuring that
the animal gets the full dose—
no more and no less.
Pasture Renovation.
“K.W.R.”: A. Evans, of
Stanton Park, Maleny (Q.), has
proved that pasture renovation
and top dressing will stop de-
clining production in his sort of
country. When first acquired,
the paspalum-clad pastures of
his 82-acre farm were root-
bound. Now, after renovation
of 50 acres and cleaning of the
remainder ready for the
machines, it is carrying 35 grade
“I keep her a bit jumpy on the clutch—it saves openin
the gate."
Jersey milkers and 15 young
stock and horses.
A large area of bracken was
controlled by use of the reno-
vator, and places where a year
ago the pest was level with the
backs of cattle are now a mat of
healthy paspalum. In paddocks
where paspalum grew tall and
tufty the bush and bog harrow
proved excellent for cutting and
turning it under to provide
humus. Evans uses a 3ft. 9in.
Sunpalm renovator, a stump-
jump type harrow, drawn by a
14-h.p. Fordson.
jin paddocks which have be-
come sickened by continual
heaping of cattle droppings,
pasture harrows were used to
remove patches of rank, un-
palatable grass, to break and
distribute manure, and to loosen
the surface. Old paspalum pas-
tures become so root-bound
that rain cannot soak through.
Following renovation, little rain
is lost by run-off, even on hill-
sides. •
All paddocks renovated on
Stanton Park are fertilised each
year with a mixture of 10 p.c.
sulphate of ammonia and 90 p.c.
super., but mixture ratio varies
according to local soil require-
ments. Fertiliser is spread in a
horse-drawn direct-drop fertiliser
duster, and paddocks are given
an initial dressing of 2701 b. to
3601 b. per acre, and in subse-
quent years a bag per acre.
Renovation costs vary. Small
paddocks require more turns,
with consequently higher costs,
but generally they vary between
6s. and 12s. per acre.
Evans found that lime gave
better results than dolomite on
his country, which on analysis
has shown lime and phosphates
deficiency, with fair potash and
magnesium content. Trials with
lime and dolomite have shown
marked improvement for the
former, especially with clover.
The Horse’s Age.
“Girrawheen”: The horse has
24 temporary teeth, 12 incisors
and 12 molars; the centre front
teeth, two above and two below,
are called pinchers; the next
four are intermediate or lateral,
and the next four comer teeth.
The permanent teeth consist of
12 incisors, four tusks and 24
molars. The dental star is a
yellowish ring appearing next
the enamel on the crown of the
teeth.
Changes with age are: Three
to 10 days, temporary pinchers
and three molars cut; 40 to 50
days, temporary intermediate or
laterals cut; six to nine months,
temporary corner teeth cut; 19
to 25 months, levelling of tem-
porary corner teeth ; two and a
half to three years, pinchers re-
placed by permanent teeth;
three and a half to four years,
intermediates or laterals re-
placed ; four to four and a half
years, tusks cut; four and a half
to five years, corner teeth re-
placed ; five to six years, level-
ling of lower pinchers; seven
years, levelling of permanent in-
termediates ; eight years, dental
star and notches in pinchers;
nine years, dental star in inter-
mediates ; 10 years, dental star
in corner teeth.
The male has 40 permanent
teeth ; the female 36 to 40, but
the smaller number is more
usually due to the lack of tusks.
Asiatic Pumpkins.
“Plane Creek”: The large pur-
plish-black or yellow cucurbits,
known variously as Indian,
Chinese or Japanese pumpkins,
are almost perennial in growth
in warm districts. They will con-
tinue to bear fruit through
several seasons if the ground is
fertile and moist enough, the
roots becoming dormant during
the autumn only to come to life
again in the following spring.
They have never done well
here in N.Q. because of the fruit-
fly stinging the setting fruit, but
I’ve seen huge crops grown on
farms away from the fly. The
vines fairly run rampant around
stables, dairies and in old, pig-
grazing paddocks. Stock love
them, and they’re splendid
keepers when thoroughly ripened
on the vines. Retailers of novelty
seeds have the seeds of these
pumpkins in their various shapes
and sizes.
Care of Pigs.
“Sarina”: Some shade trees
should be grown in every
Queensland pig paddock to pro-
tect the animals from the
summer sun. Mango-trees are
great shaders, but should be en-
circled by a pig-proof fence to
prevent the pigs from rooting the
bark off and killing the trees.
Buddelia bushes make good,
shady hedges, and their roots,
by absorbing large amounts of
moisture, help the piggery to dry
up after rain. One leading
breeder of stud pigs in Queens-
land claims that since he planted
buddelia shrubs around his pigs’
sleeping quarters there have been
no cases of pneumonia or other
cold-and-damp induced diseases
amongst his stock.
Watch out for a skin condi-
tion known as photosensitisation.
If overlooked, this ailment,
which chiefly affects white-
skinned pigs, can cause slough-
ing of skin, accompanied by
great discomfort. Some tor-
mented pigs lose their condition
rapidly. E. J. Shelton, a Queens-
land pig expert, has stated
that photosensitisation appears


WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE—
Without Calomel—And You’D Jump
Out of Bed in the Morning F»I1 of
Vim.
The liver should give out two
pounds of liquid bile daily or your
food doesn’t digest. You suffer from
wind. You get constipated. Your
whole system is poisoned and you feel
irritable, tired, and weary and the
world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills
to get those two pounds of bile
working and make you feel “up and
up.” Harmless, gentle, yet amazing
in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver
Pills by name. Stubbornly refuse
anything else. 3/- and 1/3.
Your
Dog
;Vv
Look after your dog's Health. Watch for
signs of digestive disorders such as list-
lessness, loss of appetite, dull, loose or
ragged coat or a warm nose. If you
notice any of these symptoms start him
on a course of Barko Condition Powders
immediately. A sick dog cannot be a
lively companion. As he regains his
health so will he recover his good spirits.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
H 6 PER BOX AT ALL CHEMISTS
Iror Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty„ Lid., King Street. Sydney.
/McflebnO ,/ /,
OauitaUcn
IN" THE "0 UTBACK”
Life ‘outback’ is happy and free
—and even the one great draw-
back of lack of sanitation ‘tan
now be overcome by installing a
Hygeia Dissolvenator.
This completely self-contained
sanitary system requires NO
WATER SUPPLY. Sewage mate-
rial is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that runs
away into the soil. Dangerous
germs unwholesome odours
flies emptying are all
banished. Thousands are in use
throughout Australia. Write for
free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. Pty. Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS :
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
Woolworth’s Buildings, Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
Victoria; Victorian Producers’ Co-op. Co.
Ltd., 518 Little Flinders St., Melb.
South Aust.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.
(S. Aust.), 81 Currie St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney &
Oo._ Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: ffm. Crosby & Co. Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for Stock ...
To Remedy Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders .. .
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Sterilised Bone Flour is purely a bone product without
admixture of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed mini-
mum of 32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from: —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes: 4058 Melbourne —758 K Brisbane —712 F Adelaide—sBB Perth.
;
mmf
m
Comfort
Hiiii
ii
/1
p
' •
r~\y/ 'y y
a.
i
m
: * &
•-V
IJ9
i¥i
m
... Keep that evenness in
Temperature in your Home
with Modern Insulation . . .
Australia is fast realising that in this country
we must insulate our homes to enjoy our
extremes of climate.
. %
If you're building —or even if you've
already completed your home—do some*
thing now about this most important modem
home comfort —B.l. Slogwool Insulation.
ulation, ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 190 Sussex Street, Sydney. M 8038,
BRANCH OFFICES: 422 Collins Street, Melbourne; Shell House, North
Terrace, Adelaide; 294 Murray Street, Perth.
Factory Representatives: P. F. MANN, Ltd., 146 Lichfield Stjeet, Christ-
church, New Zealand. J. K. PILGRIM, Shell House, North Terrace, Adelaide.
T. F. HANTKE, 294 Murray Street, Perth.
' Queensland Agent: BARKER & CO., LTD., 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. New
Zealand Argent: WINSTONE, LTD., Auckland, Wellington, Palmerston N.,
Christchurch, Dunedin. ‘ 81.82.1
n
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
among pigs grazing on legu-
minous crops, such as clovers or
lucerne. Fortunately, it is not
the invariable result when pigs
are fed on legumes, but any
marked reddening of the skin of
pigs feeding freely on such crops
is a danger signal. Affected pigs
should be taken off leguminous
crops without delay. Merely
providing shade in the legume
paddock won’t snd the trouble.
<
Lucerne in Victoria.
“Mr.”; The right time to cut
is when the flowers are appear-
ing, or when the shoots of the
succeeding growth are starting
from the crown of the plant.
Either or both may be used as
a guide, but in the first and last
growths of the growing season
the new shoots are the better
indication. An average stand
will yield five cuts a year or, if
a cut is made very early, six, but
repeated early cutting isn’t advis-
able.
The objective in curing is to
save the leaves, as these contain
most of the nutriment. They’re
easily shattered or bleached by
over-exposure, and their loss, to-
gether with the green color in
them, represents a big reduction
in the food value of the hay. In
mild weather, after cutting,
allow the lucerne to lie in the
swathe for a day; in hot
weather, particularly in northern
Vic. districts, use the rake soon
after cutting. When stacking,
sprinkle coarse salt on the hay
at the rate of 201 b. to the ton.
This will reduce the risk of heat-
ing.
When grazing a stand, feed it
off rapidly, allowing five weeks
between grazings, to give the
plants a chance to recover. This
will mean subdivision and rota-
tion, but it’s worth it, as frequent
or long grazing drains the vitally
of the plants. If intervals be-
tween grazings are narrowed,
give the plants an occasional
longer respite to permit full leaf
development.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C.”: Get an old second-
hand cupboard (or make a chest
out of packing cases) for keep-
ing stock remedies right on hand
at the yards. Things that should
be there are boracic acid, for
dusting shallow cuts or grazes or
for bathing sore eyes, lysol, mer-
curichrome or iodine as antisep-
tics, Stockholm tar, potassium
permanganate. Friar’s balsam
(dissolved in steaming hot water
as an inhalement for a horse
half-suffocated with influenza),
Epsom or Glauber’s salts, etc.
Anybody who knows stock will
know the remedies he needs
most frequently, but he should
transfer loose chemicals from
paper packets into dry screw-
top glass jars suitably labelled.
Part of the cupboard may con-
tain veterinary instruments,
bandages and so on.
“Calos”: The quieter cows are
kept the better the yield of milk
and butter-fat. The presence of
animals and children about the
milking-pens will upset dairy
cows, especially if they have
young calves,
“Bai”: To ensure hard egg-
shells see that fowls have suffi-
cient grain, lime, shellgrit and
chopped bones. Return egg-
shells to the ration when pos-
sible. Too much soft food
means soft eggs.
“Careful Boss”; We’re salt-
gatherers, and expensive shovels
are used in the work. When
bought all handles are rubbed
with a liberal supply of sump
oil, and when gathering is com-
pleted all shovels are washed,
handles sand-papered to remove
roughness and treated to a bath
of sump oil. ~
. “Plane Creek”: Sweet pota-
toes are a worthwhile summer-
autumn crop along the Queens-
land coast. Propagation is done
by cuttings up to 18in, long,
planted at 3ft. intervals along a
bed or bank of soil. Such a bed
is made by throwing two or
three furrows together with the
swing plough on well-ploughed
land. The crop feeds heavily on
potash; a dressing of potash
fertiliser or fresh wood-ashes be-
fore sowing is advisable.
“Sarina”: The greatest care
should always be taken in pre-
paring firebreaks around farms
in districts where natural grasses
grow long and are allowed to
stand year after year. The dry
material decomposes to humus
very slowly, and becomes very
inflammable in a dry summer.
It may be feet deep on the
ground and capable of burping
furiously throughout a calm,
dewy night. The firebreak
should be not less than 50 yards
in width, and it should be kept
clear of all inflammable matter.
In timbered country it is usually
necessary to burn the grass off
some evening and then burn off
withered leaves that have fallen
from the trees a few weeks later.
One of the war-time stirrup
pumps and a few drums of water
simplify the job of burning the
break.
“E.M.R.”: Yellow is the
natural color of butter, but there
may be infinite variations in the
shades. Once the belief was
that if the butter was a very
deep yellow it was richer and
the lighter the color the poorer
the butter. Where cows have
plenty of green feed butter is a
deep yellow, and when this is
not available and dry grass and
hay is fed the color becomes
lighter. Consumers now get
butter of the same standard
shade because the dairy industry
has worked out a method to en-
sure uniform color.
“Billjim”; Red-legged earth
mite is a menace to all seedlings,
especially early-setting tomatoes,
and is often troublesome among
clover, flax and peas. Creosote
or tar oil distributed through
two small nail holes in a gallon
tin is effective, for by this
method a narrow band 12 to 16
chains long can be made. A
slightly larger barrier will be re-
quired in the home garden.
Mites within the barrier may be
dispersed by dusting with one
part of 15 p.c. carbolic dust
mixed with five parts of lime
or super.
“Sundowner”: An ideal irri-
gated pasture, productive, long-
lived and palatable, is provided
by the following mixture, proved
by long experiment at Werribee
Research Station (Vic.); Peren-
nial rye grass 121 b. to 141 b.,
cocksfoot 31b. to 51b., Alsike
clover lib. to 21b., perennial red
clover 11b. to 21b., white clover
11b. to 21b., strawberry clover
Tib., sub.-clover lib. to 21b, ;
total 201 b. to 271 b. per acre.
“Mrs. A.H.”: I put egg-shells
in the ash-pan of the stove and
allow them to dry and break up
therein. The contents are then
thrown into the fowls’ dusting
pens, thus serving a double pur-
pose ; the hens eat the shells
and then dust themselves in the
ashes, keeping vermin down.
All bones are burnt in the stove
and, with a teaspoon of soda
(carb.), are then placed in the
drinking water once a week. We
manage without shellgrit.
“Bar”: A good whitewash
for bails and sheds is made by
slaking fresh quicklime with
boiling water. When cool thin
to the consistency of milk with
more boiling water. Add a pint
of flour paste and an ounce of
alum for each gallon of white-
wash. Apply while still warm.
“Calo”: To clean and freshen
painted woodwork wash it with
a gallon of warm water to which
has been added half a cup of
turpentine, two tablespoons of
soap flakes and two tablespoons
of milk. Dust well before apply-
ing the fluid. Finish off with a
soft cloth.


“Enough of merit has each
honoured name
To shine untarnished on
the rolls of fame”
m
I
■Mipn
«
B
Mi
■ m
Hi
a
>■'r:.^' ; :i;v’M
Hi
and m
onour
Ro(L
emonali
L
TO PERPETUATE the names of those who deserve well of
this world for services to their country, to perpetuate the
memory of those who died in its defence, a Wunderlich
Metal Honour Roll or Memorial provides a permanent tribute.
Wunderlich designers and craftsmen in metals excel in the
production of dignified Honour Rolls and Memorials to
order in Bronze, Brass, Copper or Aluminium.
f c/er/tcA
HONOUR ROILS
1 I AND MEMORIALS IN METAIi'
VISIT OUR SHOWROOMS OR WRITE TO
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN,
SYDNEY. TEL.; MX2411, G.P.O. BOX 474.
BRANCHES AT NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.; BRISBANE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, LAUNCESTON, HOBART.
PERTH: H. L. BRISBANE & WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
BRANDAUER'S
SR
PENS
Every poinfj
guaranteed—*
dd'lßit experiment with imitations
c. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
HIGH GLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb.
Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended
•with American, African and Aus-
tralian Picked Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S’'
FINE CUT READY RUBBED
CIGARETTES, 24/- per lb.
Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia.
Beautifully Blended and Matured.
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
EVERYBODY DRINKS K.B.
Wit
f v s
till
m
*2S*~
SSI
One up and one to go •• • then bach to
the club-house to review the afternoon's play
with a glass of K.B. near to hand—not
plentiful at the moment, but as good as ever*
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
MAKERS OF GOOD BEER SINCE 1835
K 8.12.19
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Many of the 450 foreign girls
whom the Misr carried to Australia
on her last voyage were engaged to
swains they had never seen. One,
19 years old, who disembarked at
Fremantle found that her man had
one leg and one eye and was 55.”
But surely a fair balance for
thq fellow in the old music-hall
song who married “half a
woman and half a tree.”
4* 4* 4*
Deduction.
The Great Detective examined
the clothes carefully for the
slightest clue. Some poor fellow,
it seemed, had been knocked
down by a tram and was still
unconscious in hospital. His
clothes were the only clue to his
identity.
“I should say,” the G.D, in-
toned, “that these are the clothes
of a man who has come down
in the world —financially as well,
I mean. Observe the worn, al-
most tattered, appearance of the
suit, which is nevertheless of ex-
cellent material. Even the
patches at the knees and elbows
are of imported cloth. The
holes where the lining shows
through have been carefully
inked—and, as my spectroscope
tells me, with ink of a particu-
larly expensive brand. The en-
tire suit speaks of a pathetic
attempt to maintain appearances
in the face of extreme penury.
“Then there is the shirt, which
has obviously been severely
ravaged at the back to provide
replacement parts for the collar
and cuffs. The sleeves, mere
skeletons of their former selves,
are miracles of ingenious prun-
ing: This is indeed a sad case.”
He wiped away an unaccustomed
tear as one of his aides entered.
“You can stop the
investigation, Chief,” he
said. “The bloke’s
come round.”
“I have deduced,”
said the G.D. “The
victim is doubtless
some down-and-out,
once a man of sub-
stance.”
“Is a man of substance, you
mean, Chief. He owns a man-
sion and a Rolls. His wife and
daughter are the two best-dressed
women in town.” *
Light dawned on the great
man’s face with the primitive
simplicity of a sunrise over
Surry Hills.
Plum.
4* HE* 4*
“Calf love is like measles —they get
over it and don’t have it again.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.’’
Deep is the sorrow and distress
Of every youthful lover,
For now we have the longer
dress
And calves have taken cover.
Bert.
“Found, pig; owner can have same
by paying expenses.”
—Suburban paper.
Meanwhile, what can’t be
cured must be endured.
4* 4* 4*
Strange that the more polished
a man is the duller he appears
to the modem girl.
4* 4* 4*
“The divorce laws should allow a
man to get a divorce when his wife
becomes obese.” —Sydney “D.T.”
There’s a fat hope of this!
Libel.
“Two camels named Bing Crosby
and Frank Sinatra were shown at an
Adelaide carnival.”
The hump, no listener can doubt.
Is what both breeds complain
about,
And bearing out this indiscre-
tion
The same lugubrious expression
Distinguishes each cheerless
dial;
But here you might concede
denial
Of further likeness, for the camel
Is reckoned as a useful mam-
mal.
And though the boys’ accus-
tomed blues
Will deepen when they hear the
news.
The titles that have been con-
ferred on
Those undeserving beasts of bur-
den
Are hidden by the kindly tram-
mels
Of language trouble from the
camels.
P. M. LUSK.
Another Doctor’s Diary.
Monday: Well, back at Lake
Success! Ah, it’s good to feel
one is home again. Senor Emilio
Greeza, one -of the Mexican
delegates, came over at dinner
after the seventh course, saying
how delighted he was, before
he fell asleep, with my vital
speech on the design of door-
knockers for the new U.N.
“Well, here's dust in your eye —so long!"
secretariat building. Announced
that, in view of the consistent
manner in which I had effected
a cure of the insomnia with
which his entire delegation had
suffered as a consequence of
coming straight from Mexico
City’s rarefied air, his Govern-
ment was pleased to confer on
me the Freedom of Mexico
City’s Bullring. Read all avail-
able press clippings on speech.
Spent all the afternoon trying to
find out which newspaper photo-
grapher snapped me during a
dramatic moment in previous
speech on my Palestine settle-
ment—-am worried, as it hasn’t
yet appeared.
Tuesday: Met Deputy Chief
Delegate of Nicaragua this
morning in lobby. Congratu-
lated him on wonderful flavor
of Nicaraguan bananas —I think
Nicaragua grows bananas. Casu-
ally mentioned importance of
having good man as first Presi-
dent of World Court, particu-
larly stressing prestige that would
accrue to small nations should
someone who had stoutly cham-
pioned their cause be selected.
Reminded him my name was
spelt with two “ts.” Queer
fellow. Secretary of State
Marshall—seems to formulate
foreign policy without waiting
to get the O.K. from militant
union leaders. Going through
some Australian press clippings
garnered thoughtfully by my
Fifth Secretary was gratified by
one reference to my last trip to
Canberra, “our very distin-
guished visitor Dr. Evatt.”
H’m — very distinguished, eh?
Wednesday : Realised Mar-
shall doesn’t have to face pre-
selection ballot. Found out that
photographer was from the
Spokane (Wa.) “Daily Saxo-
phone” ; he’d been on double
ryes and thought I was the
chairman opening the National
' Morticians’ Convention. Con-
vinced that vital need for U.N.
is own well-trained photographic
corps. Assured Senor Spiggotti,
one of Costa Rica’s delegates,
that his country was destined to
play a vital role in world affairs.
Mentioned that such a magnifi-
cent country would feel greater
confidence in its destiny were
the first President of the World
Court a man who had shown
the strength of his moral fibre
by his fearless championing of
such nations as Costa Rica.
Stressed that the name was spent
with two “ts.” Spent evening
reading press clippings on my
career.
Thursday: Senor Greeza
asked me in lobby this morning
what Australia’s foreign policy
concerning the Dutch was these
days. Told him I’d let him
know definitely by next Monday
—reply cable from the Wharfies’
Federation should be back by
then. Feeling sense of frustra-
tion today, somehow —ways of
embarrassing Marshall and
Bevin get harder and harder.;
Have just finished further re-
reading of press cuttings describ-
ing me as “this brilliant man
who shares with Captain Cook
and Ned Kelly the proud honor
of having made the world Aus-
tralia-conscious.”
Friday ; Cadogan tore into
Gromyko properly. I trembled
at the consequences of this rash
provocation of the mighty
U.S.S.R. Good heavens! If I
were to do that, what would
Ernie Thornton, Healy > and
Brown think? Noticed among
some press clippings thought-
fully given me, by the Eighth
Secretary one describing me
as “a veritable Samson who laid
about the Philistines of reaction
with something not unlike the
jawbone of an ass.” That re-
minds me —I’m overdue for a
haircut.
Saturday : Senor Spiggotti
buttonholed me in the lobby this
morning and said he had been
pondering my remarks of the
other day. Told me my kind
words had made him realise
Costa Rica was a great nation.
As such, it would be apt for one
of her delegates—himself —to
become first President of the
World Court, and he knew
he could depend on the vote of
the great Dr. Evatt, recognised
gratefully as Costa Rica’s best
friend. Going over some press
clippings, rather annoyed to see
myself described as only a
“master mind” among diplo-
mats. “Super” would have been
a much more appropriate adjec-
tive.
Sunday : Most pleasant re-
laxations from U.N. worries
today—have been catching up
on press comments on my im-
: portant speech to the Assembly
on necessity of bullet- and
> grenade-proof glass in new U.N.
~building.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
On the Board
An Adelaide concern appointed an
employee, one of 30, to its board of
directors. While the idea is by no means
new, even in Australia, each new appli-
cation of it is of vital interest to this
strike-ridden country.
The new “capitalist” on the board is a
leading hand in the polishing section of
the company’s electrical hardware factory.
He was elected by a ballot of 10 em-
ployees who have become shareholders.
The managing director said, in announc-
ing the new appointment, that the firm
paid special bonuses to employees, based
largely on their periods of service, to en-
able them to buy shares in the company.
The new move was to ensure still closer
co-operation between management and
staff. The new director would act in an
advisory capacity to the board on staff
problems.
This type of long-sighted action could
go far towards solving Australia’s indus-
trial malaise were it not for the iniquitous
internecine union wars. Even though
every man on a company’s payroll is
h a PPY> it is always possible that some
power-seeking malcontent will try to
shanghai employees into some union of
which they have never heard and, failing
in his endeavor, call down a “black” ban
on the supply of materials.
That is becoming an all-too-familiar
part of the Australian scene. Hie struggle
for power is shifting gradually from the
vertical to the parallel—from between the
“lower” and “upper” classes to between
factions of the so-called “lower.” History
gives many instances of this kind of work-
ing-class civil war being waged while
employers look on in powerless isolation.
It also gives sad stories of consequences ;
but then we never did leam anything
from history.— Vide (S.A.).
Young People
With the current fashion for small
families, the average parents have, per-
haps, one son and one daughter. They
fret over them, question them, lock them
up at nights, lecture them and flaunt
their own virtuous past. In that way
they have made teenagers heartily sick of
them, their suspicions and their lack of
faith.
They have fed up their few children
like prize pork, stuffing them with
vitamins and all that is nutritious. They
have had them photographed and pushed
them into the limelight.
Is it any wonder that youngsters today
mature beyond their age in brain and
body? No youngster of any previous
generation ever inhaled so much oxygen
or absorbed so much sun as our teen-
agers of today get in their sports.
All that must be considered by those
who regard today’s flaming youth as a
problem. Actually they are no problem,
even to themselves, but they do need
more independence, more freedom and
more outlet for their spirits. It is because
their youthful buoyancy is curbed by
some parents and guardians that many
kick over the traces. — Parent (N.S.W.).
Spare the Slipper?
Eve Merritt (B. 3/12/’47) would ban
slapping altogether. I wonder what kind
of children she has met. Some are little
darlings, but others are imps. If
they are healthy they are at least mis-
chievous and aggressive. They are no
more “logical” or sensitive to “appeals”
than their parents are.
True, there is enough “violence” in
the adult world to go round, but much
of that is caused by the shortage of a
little well-directed “force” during the
formative years of youth.
Nothing is more trying to the ear than
the pleadings and endearments of a psy-
chological mother as she tries to control
the “self-expression” of a little outlaw
with loving admonition when a well-timed
slap is indicated.
Save me from the visitors or neighbors
whose children make havoc of the garden
or the parlor in the sure and certain
knowledge that they will not be chastised!
Some twigs must be bent —over the knee
t ! iey a f e to gr°w into useful trees,
and there is nothing like leather, judi-
ciously applied, to make the inclination
permanent.
A great deal of the present deplorable
delinquency could be prevented by the
discreet laying on of hands in the early
years of the potential delinquent’s growth.
—Slipper (S.A.).
Queensland Doctors
Queensland’s early medical graduates
have already given a good account of
themselves in examinations for higher
medical degrees. Dr. C. B. R. Mann, the
first Queensland graduate to sit for the
primary F.R.C.S, examination in England,
topped a list of more than 300 candidates,
winning the Hallett Prize.
Sitting in Australia, Drs. E. R. W.
Thomson, W. S. Georgeson and D. M.
Portley were successful in satisfying
the examiners sent out to conduct the
primary F.R.C.S. examinations here.
And Dr. R. B. Salter obtained his
M.R.C.O.G. This examination was con-
ducted in Australia by examiners from
the British College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists.
Dr. H. G. Wilson obtained his
M.R.A.C.P. at an examination held by
the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians. Dr. W. J. Simmonds, after
securing Part I of the Melbourne M.D.,
gained a Nuffield Scholarship which has
taken him to Oxford. Dr. H. M, Whyte,
the 1946 Rhodes Scholar, is a Queens-
land medical graduate.
Taken by and large it is quite a good
bag for a school entering upon its
“Well, if y’ insist—one for the road an two for me.”
second decade. In 1940 there were added
to the Medical Register the names of the
first graduates from Queensland Uni-
versity’s Faculty of Medicine. Sub-
sequent years were not conducive to post-
graduate study. Most of the young
doctors mentioned served with the fight-
ing forces.
While the medical graduates of Queens-
land have a long way to go before they
can match the records of Dunhill, Stawe'll,
Elliott-Smith, Florey, Cairns, Maegraith
and many others, they are the advance
guard of many who will follow in the
footsteps of those who made famous the
names of the older Australian medical
schools.
But to enable young graduates of today
to give their best far more money will
have to be spent on medical research.
All Government grants, State and
Federal, to universities should be greatly
increased, and the salaries paid to re-
search workers and medical teachers
should be sufficiently generous not only
to retain many of our Australian gradu-
ates but also to attract some of the best
overseas men. — Open Cut (Q.).
Universities
It is high time Australian universities
were decentralised. Every one of them
has an abundance of students, and every
year many applications for admission
have to be rejected.
Faced with an accommodation prob-
lem, Melbourne Uni. acquired the
former Mildura R.A.A.F. station to train
first-year students. With the first year
completed, the university vice-chancellor
(Mr. J. D. G. Medley) has reported ex-
cellent results in every faculty.
Educationists have always stressed
the need for quietness during study, yet
there is hardly a university in Australia
away from main roads and heavy traffic.
University councils should not have to
spend time negotiating for the purchase
of country buildings. Extension of uni-
versities should be tackled on a Federal
scale. The Government should be
pleased to hand over disused service
camps. With a little reconditioning they
could at least cope with some of the
student training sought. Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
Economy Off Balance
A most urgent need today is the diver-
sion of manpower from distribution to
production—out of the shops and into
the factories, off the roads and into the
mines.
Figures from the N. S. Wales statis-
tician indicate the following approxi-
mate increases in manpower between Oc-
tober, 1946, and October, 1947: Mining
3 p.c., factories 5 p.c., building and con-
struction 18.5 p.c., transport and com-
munication 7 p.c., retail trades 9 p.c.,
commerce and finance 5,5 p.c., profes-
sional and personal services 6.6 px.
So two workers are entering the field
of distribution for every one who under-
takes production. Other “primary indus-
tries” have the same low rate of man-
power intake. Production is further re-
duced by the fact that man-hour output
is today much below what it was in 1939.
On the other hand, the savings of
N. S. Wales people decreased in 12
months by £2,200,000, indicating a
tendency to spend more in an effort to
get a share of the fewer goods available.
More men carting finished metal goods
to more men to sell over the counters of
more retail shops can only lead to dis-
aster when fewer men enter the mines to
dig the iron ore and coal for the under-
staffed factories to convert into the
finished article. This top-heavy state of
affairs, aided and abetted by the loose
money floating about, is fostering the
blackmarket and keeping prices high to
the clamoring hordes of would-be con-
sumers.
Sooner or later this state of affairs will
break down under its own weight and
we’ll find ourselves in the middle of a
“business recession.” Then the dis-
placed workers will have to turn to the
factories for a living. And then, possibly,
the increased supply of labor will give
employees already in industry some
competition and make them increase
their own output.— Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Pubs
“Cal” (B. 12/11 /’47) gives some
“horrible examples'.” I prefer the find-
ings of an American professor who re-
cently submitted the “drink habit” to a
laboratory test, using a number of
students as willing guinea pigs. His ver-
dict is that alcohol is a food as well as’
a depressant, that it is not habit-forming
and that it does not build up resistance
to its own effects like cocaine. He is con-
vinced that men imbibe to excess for
psychological reasons such as repression,
frustration and nagging wives.
If he is right, then Australians must be
mentally unstable, or their domestic rela-
tions are strained, or they don’t know
their own mind.
A fish in a bowl or an elephant in a
zoo becomes a dipsomaniac if given the
chance. The only cure is to remove the
alcohol, as they have neither neuroses nor
nagging wives on which to lay the blame.
—Boniface (S.A.).
Whose Wheat?
Selling wheat to war-wracked Britain
at 17s. a bushel has pricked the conscience
of some wheatgrowers. As compensation
a Quandialla (N.S.W.) farmer sought to
donate 10 bags of wheat to the British.
No good ; “the Wheat Board authorities
state the suggestion is not practicable, as
under Commonwealth regulations all
wheat not used on the farm is the
property of the board.”
The wheatgrowers’ chief, H. S.
Roberton, has said “The produce of the
land belongs in its entirety to the pro-
ducer, subject only to the discharge of
his lawful obligations.”
In Russia the peasants are obliged to
hand over their produce to State Com-
missars—the peasants are serfs of the
State. Doesn’t the Wheat Board’s reply
show that Australian farmers under a
socialist Government are also serfs of
the State? Growers have representatives
on the Wheat Board, but the Commissar
of Agriculture, Mr. Pollard, exercises a
Molotov veto over their decisions. —
F. D. (N.S.W.).
In Japan
Today the Japanese policemen stand on
traffic duty, sans automatic, sans sword,
sans authority and sans the dignity that
was formerly theirs. But even though
their weapon is now a small wooden
baton and their authority is soft-pedalled
by the Occupation powers-that-be, it is
still quite evident why the ordinary cop
had almost the power of life and death
over the average Japanese citizen.
When the blackmarket reached an all-
time high among the Occupation Forces
cops set to work, cordoned off a block
of cramped, flimsy houses and went
through them. Any “gook” found with
any “darkie” in any way connected with
the Occupation Forces was shot into the
nearest jail.
Before being tried by the British Pro-
vost Court “gooks” are entitled to have
an officer defend them. I was detailed
to defend one who said he had t.b., and
produced a medical certificate to prove
it. Then he went on to tell about the
conditions in the cell. The Japanese
Chief of Police showed it to me.
It was almost incredible. If Japs could
do this to their own countrymen, then
my sympathy for all p.-0.-w. who were
in their hands leaped all bounds. Into an
unventilated, heavily-barred cell, scarcely
12 by 12 feet, were jammed 32 men and
women in all stages of senile decay and
diseases. In one corner beneath the 7ft.-
low ceiling were two small, wooden
latrines. There was no room to sit, let
alone lie down, so all sleeping had to be
done standing for the 10 days and nights
of detention.
Food? Well, if a Jap was lucky
enough to be near the door when the
copp flung in a few handfuls of uncooked
rice and to escape the ensuing scrum,
he had something to chew on for the
next few minutes, anyway. Exercise con-
sisted of five minutes each morning. Then
the prisoner was led to a bucket of ice-
crusted water, allowed to wash after a
fashion, then led back —or to another
office to be gently persuaded to make a
statement.
All this was for buying with hard yen
a few packets of smokes or a blanket.
—’Arry Garto (Japan).
Root of the Matter
N.S.W. grocers are allowed to sell
liquor, but only in lots of a dozen or
more. This puts purchase beyond any
but the well-to-do, unless several people
combine to buy. What harm would be
done if an individual bottle could be
ordered? It would not encourage
drunkenness ; rather the opposite.—D. A.
(N.S.W.).
The most disturbing phenomenon in
Australia is the stream of abuse directed
at the High Court. Were it limited to
back-benchers on the Government side
it could be regarded in a less serious light.
Justices of the High Court will naturally
not demean themselves to the point of
public debate with Mr. Rosevear and Mr.
Ward. Victoria has given a warning to
the Socialist wreckers. Australian democ-
racy is still sound and is only waiting the
chance to pitch “Labor” back into the
outer darkness from which it unfortu-
nately emerged while the popular mind
was distracted with the problems of war.
—F. C. S. (Vic.).
Those who know Ben Chifley, and I’m
certain that “Yarrasider” (B. 24/12/’47)
does not, can look further back than
September 28, 1946, and can see no
change in the man. To measure the
worth of any man, difference of opinion
must be cast aside. If greatness is
measured by the distance a man has come,
and considering the start he had, then
Chifley is a great man, and “Y.” will live
to admit it. — Van (N.S.W.).
The condition of the Kendall monu-
ment (B. 19/11/ ’47), near Gosford
(N.S.W.), is attributable to the lack of
care by interested parties. Compare this
with the monument to the “Dog on the
Tucker Box” outside Gundagai, enclosed
with wire and the surroundings well kept.
An incongruous note is struck by two
public conveniences near by, completely
spoiling the effect. —R. W. (N.S.W.). '


Mjr
at>
&r>
ill
iC
l/)Vz
"l/llf.
«ii
■
h'A
m?:
■
5«
Pi
» mmmm
mm
l
?P«
I
;- ••>■
; i
1
■
m
.
111
. 't,
*i /I
H
Steel
9
Progress
through
WASH-BOARD hands” and long hours of back-brea|drfg toil over the wash
trough are rapidly becoming memories of anfjfige when washday was the
bane of the housewife’s existence. Nowadays, modern steel-built washing
machines, wringers, and ironers are the desire of every housewife eager to
enjoy the effortless results and increased leisure such equipment makes
possible. Thus, right in woman’s odomain the home —we have evidence
of steel’s importance to the better' way of life.
Steel is certainly the servant of progress and we are fortunate indeed that
through the efficient operations of The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
B.H.P. steel is available for conversion into the thousand and one com-
modities we use in our daily lives.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
IRON AND STEEL WORKS NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
OFFICES ALSO AT SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH. B RISBANE. LONDON. SINGAPORE AND NEW YORK
